News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
I never wanted to take a gap year.
It wasn’t an option that had ever been on the table. I was graduating high school in June of 2020, and then I was going to college in the fall. That was as fixed as the sun rising over the horizon day after day.
Then my high school postponed an economics summit hosting international students from China.
My mom brought up the topic for the first time at the beginning of March. It was offhand: “If this thing gets worse, you might want to think about taking a year off.” I brushed her words away. An overreaction.
Then it hit. Two weeks at home, then a month, then three. Suddenly, the end of my childhood was a ceremony without pomp, the catharsis of graduation thwarted by the cortisol of half an apocalypse. As I tell my friends now, I got all of high school — except the good part.
Somewhere in the pile of milestones turned inside out by that new reality was college. My parents pressured me to defer my admission, but I saw a gap year as an extension of the purgatory of that spring into a small eternity. Our fights punctured the eerily quiet fabric of a life on hold. As the deadline approached, it became clear they were not going to change their minds, and there was nothing more I could do.
The loss of control was terrifying. If I couldn’t stop one year from disappearing into the void of the pandemic, what would I do if Groundhog Day lasted two years? Three? I needed to reinvent myself, but I had no access to the person I was going to be, not yet. I looked at the calendar and saw only March 15, 2020. I relived the shift I’d worked that morning at Starbucks, my last memory of a world now frozen in an alien amber.
In February 2021, I drove to my high school’s parking lot and listened to songs that reminded me of senior year, trying to exhale. I still couldn’t.
Taking a gap year — not any gap year, but this gap year — felt like abdicating part of my identity. The pandemic was terrible for the class below us too, but they had time to prepare. We were blindsided; they were not. 2020 was our trauma, our bonding experience, our storm to weather. What happened to me when I put up an umbrella and waited for it to pass?
The semesters I missed, by all accounts, were awful. Those who stayed tell me I made the right choice, and I see why: Zoom school can’t hold a candle to the real thing. But as my long-awaited launch date approached, it felt wrong. When I left everyone behind, running away from the hollow mess of a year at college they endured together, I thought I’d lost the privilege of anticipation. I shoved that feeling so deep inside I could feel only its tremors on the surface.
But I couldn’t help but pinch myself the first time I set foot in Annenberg. I still went through five concentrations in three months. And I felt guilty — that with every inexperienced move, I was letting my true cohort fly further and further away.
No matter how hard I tried, I couldn’t convince myself that I was living in the right timeline. Maybe it was grief — an amalgamation of denial and bargaining — or a coping mechanism, but starting in about April 2020, I’d daydream that none of it was real. I’d forget every deformed milestone, every night spent pacing my basement trying to psychoanalyze away the shot that destroyed my best-laid plans. The movie was over, and I was going to Harvard in the fall after graduating from high school, living the life I had pictured when the world made sense.
The dreams have come less frequently these days, as the chasm between reality and fantasy has widened, but they haven’t disappeared. Sometimes I let them stay a few extra seconds, just to feel the warmth.
I worry that the control I lost will never return, even when Covid-19 is a distant memory. This fear is a faint alarm in the back of my head. The conductor plays a slow diminuendo, but the drone goes on and on.
But as the strings draw out their single note, so too do I go on. I’m not the same person I would have been if things had happened the way I’d planned. There was no pause button, as much as I might have wished for one. I worked a full-time job, and spent a season at an intensive outdoor program. I’m in a different place than I envisioned I’d be when I applied to college, but I have new perspectives, new opportunities. Whether or not every part of the year was valuable, calluses are now embedded in the patchwork guiding me forward. I’m slowly learning to accept them, to grow comfortable with the contours of this new landscape I inhabit.
Two years ago, the future I’d imagined for myself imploded in 24 frames. Now, I shape my life from its ashes, in a world that bends on the whims of fortune more than I ever thought was possible.
Ian D. Svetkey ’25, a Crimson Editorial editor, lives in Hurlbut Hall. 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
People often speak of words jumping out at you on a page, but how many series really exhibit this besides “Geronimo Stilton?” The books are immediately striking for their unique typeface, if nothing else. Each page is in full color, with author Elisabetta Dami playing with fonts, sizes, and tiny in-line illustrations. The visual presentation of the books captures children’s attention immediately, drawing them into Geronimo’s world of New Mouse City.
Our protagonist mouse and his murine friends live in a world that never lets you forget its inhabitants are rats, yet, this world also seems so human, reflecting the inner workings of our own society. Geronimo enjoys curling up after work with a hot drink just as us humans do, although his is a steaming cup of hot cheddar. He is also a writer and runs a newspaper, despite having paws, and is purportedly the true author of his own stories. Perhaps the series’s wordplay seems a bit more logical when it is supposed to be written by the mouse himself.
Incessant references to cheese are sprinkled throughout the stories, making it clear what the true author, Dami, imagines mice would have on their minds at all times. She humorously refers to two mice always being together “like cream and cheese,” and even includes darker references that demonstrate the mice know their place in this strange world, saying ideas can stick “like a mouse in a glue trap.” She also plays with the line, or lack thereof, between rats and mice, although the phrase “slimy sewer rats” is still used as a common insult.
In Geronimo’s society, a rat or mouse can be almost anything its little heart desires, and yet, surprisingly humanoid aspects of life are still omnipresent. There is still somewhat of a class system looking down upon sewer rats in this interesting world. Common tropes such as the snobby butler are also found throughout the “Geronimo Stilton'' books, yet their usage never seems contrived. The cheese-related puns that frame them render these tropes digestible to the children encountering them for the first time on their literary journey.
The series’s absurd style, especially its concentration of cheese-related puns, makes it humorous to all ages. The attention-grabbing typesetting satiates the reader’s eyes (and perhaps their stomach as well through its abundance of cheese), and allows them to overlook the more subtle references that are often included in normal fonts.
References to the outside, very human, world are twisted throughout the narrative, often as asides that fly over young readers’ heads. Geronimo encounters a giant pet cockroach named Kafka curiously living in a one room house, and thinks nothing of this oddly specific name. Young readers wouldn’t, either, until they might happen to read “The Metamorphosis,” a classic by Franz Kafka, where the tale of a giant cockroach might suddenly seem familiar. In the same story, Geronimo finds himself snout-to-snout with his friend’s grandfather, Professor Frankenstein, a mad scientist presumed to be dead but later found to come back to life. These highbrow references are presented with little fanfare compared to the heaps of cheese-related jokes, yet still take hold in the minds of children only to be drawn out later in life, perhaps in English class.
Literary references may intentionally whet children’s appetites for classics and the world around them in a subtle way, or may simply be included for sport. But there is no doubt that they are significant and serve to prove that wording and references to the outside world can have deep implications for children.
The references in “Geronimo Stilton” are decidedly harmless and even positive in what they expose children to, but not all children’s literature ages (like cheese) in the same way. In this case, we praise subliminal messaging, but it reminds us above all of the impact that dropped-in lines have upon children. In one instance, Geronimo’s boorish cousin Trap references pouring boiling oil on enemies in medieval times, and Geronimo remarks that he is impressed by his cultural knowledge. Trap scoffs in response and reveals that he learned that from a cartoon. How self-aware of such a rough-edged mouse. Like Trap, we readers inadvertently learned so much about the world from the references melted into “Geronimo Stilton.”
Nour L. Khachemoune ’22-’23 is a joint concentrator in Chemistry and Anthropology in Dunster House. Her column “Nostalgia: What’s it Hiding?” appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
March 10th changed everything. Everyone.
Exactly two years ago, Harvard students saw their world collapse unto them — flinging them far apart, away from their friends, in a one-way ticket toward an ocean of uncertainty. Two years and two new class cohorts later, our campus is not the same. And neither are we.
Every single one of us experienced the pandemic in different, devastating ways, each tuned to their own personal unraveling. Our oldest students hurriedly jammed their entire lives into suitcases and boxes almost overnight — some they carried with them, some were left behind, dusting and awaiting an eventual return. The youngest cohorts were never kicked off their college campus but gave up their last few months (years, sometimes) of high school instead, missed proms and severed teenage years be damned. Some of us were forced to return home amid uncertain visa statuses and travel bans, torn away from a country, a life, and a mosaic of loved ones with no return date in sight.
And a sizeable minority experienced pure loss. Family members, friends, loved ones. Absent faces mourned haltingly amid the chaos, sometimes from afar.
As our campus dissolved into pixelated classes, a single unifying thread tied our experiences together: collective, seemingly boundless, grief. It defined our young outlook in a rotten reality. And it dragged on, and on, and on, no matter how hard we pinched or prodded ourselves to wake up from the dystopic hellscape. Every morning: the rising and falling curves, the mounting tolls, the distraught. Pictures of eerily empty streets and refrigerated trucks overflowing with passed ones; an endless flurry of new variants and unsettling long-term side effects.
Masks that, though necessary, hid and tortured our smiles.
We lost our spring break and then the summer after that. We lost hope for a quick fix and a normal return in the fall. We missed Christmas and then spring, and then summer again. During our formative years, our best years, the years where we were supposed to discover ourselves, grow, and figure out how we fit into this confusing, vertiginous world, we got nothing — nothing but collective grief.
But the end is in sight. Or so it seems.
Severe Covid-19 cases and hospitalizations are down, thanks in no small part to our medical prowess. Cambridge is about to lift its mask mandate. Harvard, too, is lowering pandemic-era restrictions, and shifting towards mask-less life and classes. We are, by most accounts, on the brink of relative normalcy.
That cautious, promising truth is a reason for gratitude.
We are grateful for those who got us here. For those who suffered, acknowledged or not, through years of immense pain and struggle — from the frontline workers, who risked their lives everyday to significant tribute but lackluster pay increases, to those who suddenly found themselves unable to read lips and hence interact with the world around them. We are grateful, above all, for the normalcy that our easy access to vaccines, masks, and care has afforded us.
But gratitude is not enough. Today, March 10th, 2022, is a time for joy. Joy at the fact that, against all odds, we are back to (roughly) where we yearned to be during the very worse: to hugs, and smiles, and our in-person, no longer indefinitely delayed lives.
Of course, not everything is fine — last week’s case numbers proof that convincingly. The “end of covid” doesn’t mean we don’t need to be mindful about residual or new restrictions; it doesn’t imply that the scars of the past two years will heal magically overnight. But it does mean we finally get to live the first years of our young adulthood.
And we should. If the pandemic taught us anything, it’s that there is genuinely no guarantee that we will be able to do so tomorrow. New crises will emerge; our volatile reality could, at any point, shatter once again. We’ve learnt that everything we cherish — grabbing coffee at that one special spot, spending time with loved ones, complaining about classes that you actually love — might not be there in the future.
Now, on the apparent back end of things, is the time to finally stretch our legs and run with all that we love. Time to experience all the things we couldn’t to the fullest extent we can, to fix every regret, fulfill every delayed wish or aspiration. Seniors, please appreciate every last second of the full senior spring others missed. Juniors, make sure to finish your (effective) freshman spring strong. Sophomores and freshmen, get a taste of everything — yes, everything — for the very first time.
We have grown and changed immensely over these two blurry, dreadful years. They weren’t, after all, just a void, a gap in our memory — even if many of us initially faced them on those terms. We must, past the initial shock, take stock and pride ourselves for all that we did to create a sense of normalcy in fundamentally abnormal conditions – to build something whole in a time where everything felt broken. We should remember and cherish our own strength. We should remember, too, that this was a collective experience, a global, never-ending funeral — and that collective kindness and solidarity for others should define our newly reborn perspectives.
Only time will tell whether this is truly the end of our Covid days or just a mere, disappointing pause before the next scary-sounding variant emerges. But this March 10th feels like a bright new beginning. Seize it.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
The year was 2015, and Nathan V. Mallipeddi was in the spotlight. At the center of a bowl-shaped auditorium, he stood before a crowd of his professors, teachers, and peers to present a science project. He approached the podium,ready to deliver the talk he’d spent months researching and preparing. But when he opened his mouth to speak, nothing came out.
“I couldn’t say my name,” Mallipeddi recalls. After five minutes of sheer silence, “eventually, I got it out and then the rest of the presentation was a little bit tough,” he says.
After the presentation, people from the audience came up to Mallipeddi to ask the same question. “Did you forget your name?”
This seemingly innocuous question revealed a darker reality about the pain of stuttering, Mallipeddi says. “People think they’re trying to be funny, or trying to help, and [these comments] really hurt,” he remembers.
Born and raised near San Jose, California, Mallipeddi attended the University of California, Los Angeles, where he studied biology and political science, before coming to Harvard Medical School. The son of immigrants from India, he identifies as a proud member of the South Asian community. His father is also a person who stutters, but Mallipeddi notes that his father’s journey with stuttering does not entirely resemble his own.
“He never accepted it,” Mallipeddi says. “He was always focused on trying to hide it and trying to overcome it. He spent his whole life ignoring and treating his stutter as an enemy.”
“When I was stuttering growing up, he would constantly tell me, ‘Stop stuttering, stop stuttering,’” Mallipeddi recalls.
According to Mallipeddi, in many Eastern countries, there is a lot of cultural emphasis on family reputations. “If you stutter, you’re a reflection of your family, rather than the individual, and so [my father] didn’t want for me to reflect badly on all of us,” he says, adding that his father was concerned a stutter would prevent him from succeeding in his medical career.
Mallipeddi notes that his own struggle with stuttering is “less about the fluency and more about how it’s perceived.” “It’s an invisible disability,” he says. “What’s unique about these kinds of conditions is that when people slip up, they’re automatically attributed to be nervous or stupid or something. And that mistake is not attributed to their disability.”
Despite the high prevalence of stuttering in the U.S. — it affects around 3 million Americans — some health insurance may not cover stuttering therapy. In his freshman year at UCLA, Mallipeddi began to consider how to combat this, and in 2017, he formed the Stuttering Scholarship Alliance. The organization quickly expanded as he partnered with therapists from across the U.S. to provide access to teletherapy and group therapy, thus “improving outcomes by more than 90 percent and reducing cost by 15 times.”
Since its initial formation, SSA has helped around 20,000 people in over 25 countries and partnered with companies such as Google and Microsoft. Mallipeddi explains his dedication to this goal: for children who stutter, he says, “it’s death by a thousand paper cuts … every second, every minute, every hour, every day for years upon end children who stutter are being told that they do not belong.”
Today, the once-shy Mallipeddi is eager to get to know everyone he meets at Harvard Medical School. “I was quiet for so long, going through something that a lot of people weren’t even aware of, and I had this battle raging inside me,” he says. “ So I’m always curious to hear people’s stories, especially people who others often overlook.”
Mallipeddi does still grapple with anxiety over how his stutter will affect him working in the medical field. He worries that if he were to stutter in an emergency situation, it could potentially prove to be fatal for a patient. Nevertheless, he says, “stuttering has brought me so much. I can just look at those challenges with my head held high.”
—Sophia C. Scott can be reached at sophia.scott@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @ScottSophia_.
Sections
When Russia launched a military invasion of Ukraine on Thursday, Feb. 24, Georgiy A. Kent ’22 watched in anger and dismay as his family’s home region came under attack. Kent, a former president of The Lowell House Society of Russian Bell Ringers, decided to spearhead an emergency ringing of Lowell’s bells in a symbolic display of solidarity with Ukraine.
Around 4:30 p.m. that day, people around Harvard’s campus heard the bells playing the Ukrainian anthem.
Kent joined the Russian Bell Ringers Society during his first year at Harvard. His connection to both Ukraine and Russia has motivated him to be a part of the Society to preserve the culture shared by both countries — he spent five years living in Kyiv with his older sister and mother, who is Crimean Tatar. “Ukraine and Russia are predominantly Eastern Orthodox, and bell ringing is a tradition [celebrated] in both countries,” he says.
For Kent, the close-knit Society is one of his main communities on campus. For their social gatherings, Kent says the bell ringers often enjoy snacks from a Russian store in Allston called BazaAr Supermarket. This week, Kent and his fellow bell ringers are celebrating Maslenitsa, which he says is like the Eastern Orthodox version of Mardi Gras, after their regular Sunday ringing.
In his last two years as the society’s president, Kent has worked on promoting cultural exchange among Society members, alumni, and bell ringers from around the world — but the Society already has a long history of cultural exchange.
The Bell Ringer Society has a long-standing partnership with the Danilov Monastery in Moscow. In 1930, Charles R. Crane, a wealthy American businessman, bought 17 bells from the monastery and donated them to Lowell in an attempt to prevent Stalinist government officials from melting them down. In 2008, the bells were returned to Danilov Monastery and exchanged for a replica set with the help of Father Roman Ogryskov, lifelong bell ringer and hierodeacon of the monastery.
According to Kent, Father Roman, visits Lowell every other year to hold master classes on bell-ringing techniques with the society.
Before the pandemic, groups of Harvard bell ringers would travel to Russia for two weeks in the summer to study bell culture, tour sites of bell production, and practice ringing bells at various monasteries around Russia. “This is the cultural exchange that we were able to experience firsthand,” Kent explains.
The Society has not been able to visit Russia since the summer of 2018, and Father Roman’s last visit was in early 2020. With the pandemic, recent war, and airspace sanctions, Kent says it is unclear when the group will resume its exchange.
Though he recently retired from his two-year presidency in the Society, Kent maintains his engagement with the organization by mentoring the next generation of bell ringers. If you happen to be in Lowell House on a Sunday around noon, you might run into Kent wearing his signature black Karakul hat, discussing logistics with his ringers near the entrance of the bell tower.
Kent refrains from characterizing the Bell Ringer Society as Russian-centered. He says that his relationship with the organization has not changed as a result of the war, as the Society ultimately is a community that values cultural exchange and understanding. “It just happens that the bells came from a Russian monastery,” Kent says. “At the end of the day, Eastern Orthodox bells are Eastern Orthodox bells, and they make the same sounds.”
Now, Kent utilizes the Society as a platform for not only cultural exchange but also solidarity and advocacy. Some of the bell ringers recently joined hundreds of demonstrators in a rally urging the University to publicly denounce the Ukrainian invasion.
“Even though we have Russian in our official name, we’re more than that,” Kent says. “We’re a community of bell ringers who are supportive of Ukraine, their independence, and sovereignty.”
Corrections: March 14, 2022
A previous version of this article incorrectly stated the heritage of Georgiy A. Kent’s mother. She is Crimean Tatar, not Russian of Crimean Tatar heritage.
A previous version of this article incorrectly stated the hat worn by Georgiy A. Kent ’22 is called a Ushanka. In fact, the hat is called a Karakul.
Sections
A creek cuts through the monotonous suburbia of my hometown. When I’m home, I make a point of visiting it on my daily walks, crunching through the leaves blanketing the makeshift dirt paths paved by creek-goers before me. I sit on a rock along the bank, tree branches arching just over my head, and watch the water flow: the mesmerizing ripples over the hundreds of pebbles on its floor, the continuous cascade downstream. My mind quiets. I inhale, hold the earthy, woodsy scent in my lungs for as long as I can, and when I exhale, I imagine my breath is pure, purged of the negative energy churning within me. In these moments, only the creek matters.
I started falling in love with nature when I had nothing else to fall in love with. Specifically, during the period beginning in spring of 2019, when I had lost and lost and nearly lost again: a breakup, a death in the family not one week later, and just months after that, a near-suicide. Despite needing others more than ever, I felt as though I didn’t have anyone to turn to. My friends remained by my side, but I feared burdening them with my problems. My parents were supportive of me, but after my grandfather’s death they were shouldering far more emotional strain than I’d ever seen before, and I didn’t want to add more to their plate.
With no one to lean on and still reeling from these upheavals, I felt displaced. My heart felt like a meaty, throbbing something, its strands of broken tissue dangling like the roots of a plant ripped from the earth.
In an effort to ground myself and find some semblance of control over my life, I convinced myself to work out more often, eat clean, be healthy, lose weight. I told myself it was part of my journey to self-improvement. I told myself I would create a new me, a better me.
It started with cutting out “junk” food and spiraled quickly when I began counting calories. Lying on my bedroom floor in the summer, I watched the fitness app light up on my home screen as it finished installing. I bit my lip and opened it, entering my height, weight, and goal: lose weight. My suggested calorie intake popped up on the screen. Without thinking, I pressed a little minus button, watched the number drop, drop, drop. Almost immediately, I could feel the digits hanging over my head, a ceiling I couldn’t penetrate.
For almost an entire year, my life became consumed by calories and the number on the scale. I ate almost nothing except for fruits and vegetables and the obligatory bits of rice I’d have with lunch and dinner. When I knew I’d be eating out, I would panic and eat as little as possible earlier in the day. I exercised excessively, going on runs even in over 80-degree weather. Without even realizing it, I had made my life a living hell.
Yet throughout it all, I found ways to handle my emotions in healthier ways, journaling and reconnecting with my love for writing. And most of all, I did the best thing I could’ve done for myself at that time: I went outside.
What started as a chance to be alone with my thoughts quickly evolved into something far more therapeutic and beautiful. I became enamored of the fragrant jasmines blooming in people’s front yards, the dewdrops clinging to wild grasses along the creek after a rare bout of California rain, the salmon clouds that always made the tenderest nostalgia swell in my chest. I turned to hiking, immersing myself in the rich scents of the forest, the light chatter of birds and squirrels, the solidness of the earth beneath me.
In nature, away from others, away from the gloomy clouds that swirled in my mind, away from everything, I found comfort tucked in every crevice of the earth. In a time when I felt I had nothing, not even a sense of who I was, I remembered that the earth gives me — gives us — so many gifts that I don’t have to work to earn or prove myself worthy of. And I seized every gift I could get, held as much pine-scented air as I could in my lungs, if only to feel grateful, again, that I was in this world.
But it wasn’t just these reminders of beauty that kept me grounded. All around me, I noticed different stages of life. During a rare period of springtime rain, I saw flowers battered to the earth, leaves and branches hurled into the river, signs of destruction everywhere. Yet on a walk by the creek the day it stopped raining, I found myself pulled toward the myriad of fungi that sprang from the now-moistened earth and the lush wild grasses and clovers coating the sides of the path. Staring at the green, I felt something open in my chest, and it hit me: Growth and decay, sudden destruction and loss, regeneration and healing — all of it is natural. And all of it feeds into each other.
In the most comforting way possible, I felt small. I’ve never been a spiritual person, but for the first time, I understood the solace one can find in being connected to something greater. But instead of feeling connected to something beyond earth, I was struck by how painfully and beautifully human I was, how I was just another being on this planet. Everything I was going through was just part of those cycles of decay and regeneration. As surely as the grasses would burst from the earth more lush than before, I would find some way, somehow, to grow from this period of my life.
It wasn’t as if this realization was a panacea, and it took a while for me to internalize it. But it reframed how I viewed this period of time and served as a light at the end of a tunnel that grew shorter and shorter each day. I let myself feel all the negative emotions that hit me, knowing I couldn’t fully heal without first embracing and understanding all of my pain.
When I beat myself up for not healing quickly enough — when I found myself slipping back into unhealthy coping habits or ruminating on everything that happened — I remembered how growth is never linear, how it almost always relies on death first. I would step outside and watch the fragile silhouettes of leaves sway in the wind as the sun set. I remembered that there are ends to everything, remembered that these leaves will return to the earth, help fuel the growth of another plant, another being. I remembered that, in time, soft, feathery green will blossom from bare branches again. And I remembered that no matter what, the sun will rise, that it paints the sky with the most brilliant colors right as it emerges from the dark.
And life went on, one step, one setback, one cycle at a time.
— Magazine writer Kaitlyn Tsai can be reached at kaityn.tsai@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @kaitlyntsaiii.
Sections
The 2019 Adams Housing Day video changed the game. With more than 65,000 views on YouTube, it cemented itself as one of the most successful and iconic Housing Day videos in Harvard’s history. For months, students couldn’t escape the chants of “We be in Adams!” almost always followed by a resounding, “That’s where all the action happens!”
Housing Day — a Harvard rite of passage through which freshmen discover which of the 12 upperclassmen Houses they will live in for the next three years — has taken on a fun, competitive edge with the rise of these trailer-like hype videos for each House. Over the years, they have taken the form of film and song parodies, short sketches, and even imitations of Internet memes.
These videos are now as much of a tradition as Housing Day itself. While the tradition’s history is brief — the earliest videos on YouTube date back to 2009 —, it has garnered both mass celebration and incited widespread controversy.
Take, for example, the videos released in 2010, which included a parody of Ke$ha’s “TiK ToK” and an edited Old Spice commercial. The new video format inspired House pride, envy, and competitiveness in unprecedented ways; as one 2010 FlyBy article stated, some students even wanted to “transfer from our lame Houses and into ones that know how to make a quality video.”
The videos continued to stir up competition among the 12 Houses in the following years. In 2012, Satire V launched the now-defunct “Housie Awards” in which students could vote for videos to win titles such as “Most Innovative Video” and “Outstanding Editing.”
The stakes continued to rise throughout the 2010s, as the videos were increasingly used as a means of evaluating the quality of the Houses themselves.
In 2014, The Crimson’s Flyby board began its annual series of official Housing Day video rankings, pushing Houses into a video production arms race. Trailers for Housing Day videos even became relatively common: a teaser for the teaser. The rise in popularity of these videos hardly lost momentum; Dunster’s 2017 Housing Day video racked up nearly 50,000 views on YouTube.
The competition, however, reached a boiling point. Former Leverett House Faculty Dean Howard M. Georgi ’68 said that after a period of “too much tearing down” of other Houses, the Faculty Deans decided to keep videos focused more generally on the positive aspects of each House.
Beyond friendly competition, the history of Housing Day videos is also riddled with more infamous controversies.
In 2010, Pfoho started its Housing Day video with a clip of Adolf Hitler saying, “Yes, yes, we all know this already. Pfoho is the best house on campus.” Edited from a scene of “Downfall” — a World War II film released in 2004 — the video features Hitler and his “blockmates” facing total devastation upon being placed in Adams House instead of their desired Pfoho.
Other Housing Day videos have garnered extensive backlash from the student body.
Kirkland’s 2014 Housing Day video, which featured a clip of female students dancing in bikinis, became the center of widespread debate, causing the creators to make the video private on YouTube.
Some students saw the video as grossly objectifying women, while others questioned why people only seemed to take issue with the women, since the video featured half-naked people of all genders.
In response to student concerns, Kirkland held an open forum for students to address their issues with the portrayals of gender and sexuality.
The antics didn’t end there, as only two years later, Currier House released a Trump-themed video for Housing Day 2016, which incited scrutiny from many students. The video featured a Harvard student in a blonde wig impersonating Donald Trump while criticizing the other Houses. While some students thought the video was just meant to be comedic, others believed it was hurtful. Currier removed the video and held a town hall meeting to discuss the backlash.
Housing Day videos have a short and complicated history, but the Covid-19 pandemic has uprooted many of the precedents set over the last decade. Now, in 2022, few students currently at the College have experienced a “normal” Housing Day, and many will be seeing Housing Day videos for the first time. From its spectacles to its scandals, Housing Day videos still remain at the heart of Housing traditions, and students are still adapting, competing, and innovating.
Sections
“I was like, ‘Whoa. Those are the Olympic rings, and I’m here,” recalls Rémi R. Drolet ’23-24. “It got me really excited.”
For Drolet, a cross-country skier from Canada and physics concentrator in Adams House, it took a while to realize he was at the 2022 Beijing Winter Olympics. It was only when he drove past a large display of the Olympic rings lit up in the dark that the magnitude of his accomplishment sunk in.
Drolet, who spoke with me from the airport because he has been traveling around northern Europe to attend post-Olympic skiing competitions, raced in four events at the Olympics, including in the men’s 4x10 km relay race where he helped lead Team Canada to an 11th place finish. Drolet placed competitively in his individual races as well. Despite these results, he says he “was hoping for a little bit more,” but admits that just being in Beijing was “a really good experience.”
Drolet has been cross-country skiing since before he could ski.
As a toddler, Drolet’s parents would strap him to their backs and take him skiing. “I grew up in a town that’s really big on alpine skiing, and just skiing in general,” he explains. “They would often take me either for hikes or skis in the backpack.”
As soon as he was out of the backpack at age three, Drolet was skiing himself. It took him a bit longer to start competing in skiing events, because like many Canadians, his main sport as a young child was ice hockey. But it was not long before he started drifting away from the sport.
At the time, Drolet was taking skiing lessons at school when an instructor he liked encouraged him to join a local skiing club. “I tried it out and really loved it and kind of just went from there,” he says.
A decade later, he would be competing at the Olympics.
But Drolet’s journey to Beijing has been anything but easy. He has wanted to make the Olympic team since the 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea. “The Olympics was something I’ve been building towards for the past four years,” he says. “This was the first Olympics where I was really hoping to make it, so I’ve been training really hard with that goal in the back of my mind for the past four years.”
At the Olympic trials in January, Drolet had to put his hard work to the test in order to snag a spot on the team. “At the time, all the spots on the team had been filled from people that were racing on the World Cup earlier in the year,” he says. “I knew I had to basically be the top nonqualified finisher at the trials to make it.”
Drolet won the spot, but even still, his Olympic future was up in the air. “At first, it wasn’t official,” he says. “I was just technically the alternate for the team.” He had to hope extra slots would free up, which happens when another country does not use all of its allocated spots. The wait was “stressful” and “nerve-wracking,” he recalls.
“It would have been like a week or two before we’re actually leaving for China, when I heard back,” he says. “Once I got it, it was just like pure relief.”
After the relief, he celebrated. The first phone call Drolet made upon hearing the news was to his coach, Dave Wood, to whom Drolet attributes much of his success.
Drolet insists, however, that his parents were not offended when they weren’t the first call. “I think they were fine,” he says with a laugh. “I mean, it was all kind of at the same time.”
Drolet says the impact skiing has had on his life has been greater than either he or his parents “ever would have imagined.” “Skiing has taken me tons of places around the world and given me so many great opportunities,” he says while getting ready to catch his next flight.
Drolet will return to Cambridge this fall after the FIS Cross-Country World Cup season ends, resuming his studies after taking a year off to focus on skiing.
“I’m excited to head back to Harvard and get back to doing schoolwork,” he says. “It’s really good to have other things like school or physics formulas to try and get your mind off things.”
When asked if he finds skiing at the Olympics or studying physics at Harvard more difficult, Drolet replies, “I’d say an Olympic race is harder than an individual pset, but I guess it depends how many psets you have. If you have a really mean professor, you could probably get kind of close.”
Sections
As of March 2022, Harvard Medical School limits prospective students to a maximum of six letters of recommendation for consideration in their application. But when Martin Robison Delany — the son of a free mother and formerly enslaved father — was admitted to the wintersession of 1850, it took a whopping 17.
Some may know the story of Richard Theodore Greener, Class of 1870, the very first Black person to graduate from Harvard College. But before the courage of Greener, there was the persistence of Delany. Delany and two other men, Daniel Laing Jr. and Isaac H. Snowden, became the first Black admits to any school at Harvard University.
Unfortunately, their historic attendance was short-lived. The moment they stepped on the Medical School’s campus, they were met with constant protests and complaints from their enraged white peers who insisted that they could not “consent to be identified as fellow-students with blacks; whose company we would not keep in the streets, and whose society as associates we would not tolerate in our houses.”
By December of 1850, less than two months into their first term, Delany, Laing, and Snowden were asked by the administration to leave at the end of the semester.
In a time when many believed that the “problem” of race could be solved by simply sending Black people back to Africa, Laing and Snowden had been sponsored by the Massachusetts Colonization Society to attend Harvard. The goal was to graduate, then migrate to the colony of Liberia and practice medicine in America’s growing settlement of “unproductive slaves and free blacks who might encourage antislavery activities in the United States,” according to then-associate professor of pathology at New York University Louis Rosenfeld’s 1989 survey of Delany’s life.
But to Delany, American Colonization Society was “one of the most arrant enemies of the colored man.” He rejected Liberia for its location near the equator and its government’s dependence on white colonizationists. However, Delany was not entirely opposed to the idea of the migration of Black people out of the United States — as long as it was on their own terms. In fact, he’s credited with creating the popular Pan-Africanist slogan “Africa for Africans,” and has even been called the “father of Black nationalism.”
Black nationalism is a political ideology that advocates for the unity and self-determination of Black people through the creation of a separate, all-Black nation-state. Delany’s version in particular, however, viewed some indigenous African and South American cultures as barbaric and “in need of civilizing” by Black Americans — a colonial notion that was largely abandoned in later developed theories.
Delany returned to the United States in 1861 after several expeditions across Africa and London during which he attempted to raise funds, gain support, and negotiate with tribal leaders in an attempt to take control over their land. His refusal to collaborate with white colonization groups, as well as his strong reputation with little tangible support, eventually led to his downfall — especially up against the growing imperialist force of England. Still, he continued spreading this ideology throughout his many endeavors that followed until his passing in 1885.
Over a century later, Black nationalism found its way back to Harvard’s campus. On November 3, 1969, a small group of Black students sat down for the first time to organize the goals and values of a new political action group on campus — the Organization for Black Unity.
An 1969 article in The Crimson says that during their official launch, the “250 members present agreed that the goal of OBU was to ‘coordinate the interdisciplinary skills toward the building of a black nation for all African people,’” according to Philip N. Lee, at the time a third year law student and spokesman for the group.
Blurring the lines between an affinity group and a radical political action organization, OBU wasted no time in making noise on campus. Its first order of business focused on “[c]hecking out the blatantly racist employment practices for Harvard University,” especially in regards to the new construction of Gund Hall, a building of the Graduate School of Design. Their stringent seven-point list of demands included significantly increasing the hiring of Black and other minority workers and improving overall opportunities for upward mobility.
OBU held their first negotiation meeting with administration on December 1, in which Harvard was largely unable to meet their demands with the immediacy and full commitment that OBU believed the situation demanded. Citing the initiatives already in place that OBU was targeting as insufficient, Harvard repeatedly insisted that “the University regrets the failure to find a basis for a common approach to the problems of increasing black and other minority employment on construction projects.”
But for OBU, that was not going to cut it.
Over just two short weeks, they held a rally in the Yard and occupied the construction site of Gund Hall, the Faculty Dining Club, and University Hall (once on December 5, and again on December 11). “Black, Black power to the African people,” the 91 OBU members passionately chanted, arms linked as they slowly filed out of University Hall and into the cold December air after nearly five hours.
In another 1969 Crimson article, OBU claimed that 86 members of the December 11 University Hall occupation were suspended — while a chairman of the subcommittee dealing with suspensions denied that any notices were issued as of December 16.
On December 12 of the same year, the University’s Committee on Rights and Responsibilities sent a letter to attendees of OBU’s occupation of University Hall, informing them of their temporary suspension. Another temporary restraining order was issued at 3 p.m. on the day of the occupation, addressed to specific members as well as to the general population of the OBU, telling them to “desist and refrain from occupying, trespassing upon or remaining in or about University Hall, the Gund Hall construction site, the Faculty Club, or any other building or premises of President and Fellows of Harvard College.”
Finally, on December 19, 1969, 40 members of OBU were formally charged with a violation of the Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities for their participation in the University Hall occupation. But despite constant clashes with the University, OBU continued organizing through 1970.
Whether it’s Delany’s expulsion in 1850 or the inaugural action of the Organization for Black Unity in 1969, one thing is for certain: Harvard does not fare well with Black nationalists in December.
Sections
[image id=1354907 align=center size=large caption=true}
Ayush Noori ’25 might be a Harvard freshman, but the papers he’s written already far exceed the scope of Expos. As part of his research on neurodegeneration, or progressive brain damage commonly associated with aging, he has co-authored 14 scientific articles with titles such as “Cyclic Multiplex IHC and Deep learning to Phenotype Glia in Alzheimer’s” or “Context-dependent Astrocyte Reaction in Neurodegeneration.”
In layman’s terms, Noori defines his work as “applying cutting-edge machine learning approaches across computer vision, natural language processing, and graphed representations learning.” He uses each of these computational tools to observe how neurodegeneration proceeds in the brain. At Harvard, he’s building on this work by pursuing a concentration in computational neuroscience. Impressive, right?
Noori’s work has deep personal stakes. It all started in middle school, when he served as a caretaker for his grandmother, who suffered from progressive supranuclear palsy, a disease whose cause is currently unknown. “I witnessed firsthand how nuclear disorders like Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s, or PSP can wreak havoc on patients, families, and caregivers,” Noori recalls. After she was diagnosed, their family looked in vain for treatment. Naturally, ] Noori then took it upon himself to find solutions for his grandmother that weren’t yet known. “That feeling of utter hopelessness despite the rapid advancement in biotechnology and health care was a critical challenge, and that’s how I got started in neuroscience,” he says.
Having grown up in Seattle, Noori’s first research project was at the University of Washington, where he studied disease in roundworms, Caenorhabditis elegans. He looks at the role of exosomes, or small vesicles that exit cells, to see how they move, what they carry, and what their role is in aging and Alzheimer’s disease. Since then, he’s moved on to the Massachusetts General Hospital’s Institute for Neurodegenerative Disease (this marks his fourth year there) and the Harvard Medical School’s Department of Biomedical Informatics.
Reflecting on his time as both a high school student and researcher, Noori admits the double-life was often challenging as he toggled between classes and working on mice models. Still, he feels lucky to have had both experiences. “I’ve been fortunate to have a number of phenomenal mentors,” Noori says. Often the youngest member of the lab, he strove to prove his motivation and work ethic to gain the respect of his more experienced colleagues . Though he began with pipettes and petri dishes, now Noori mostly works with computers. He adds that his initial years doing wet lab work gave him a “fundamental knowledge in biology and neuroscience” that now support his computational work.
Noori says his favorite series of projects has been looking at glial cells, which Rudolf Virchow, the “father of modern neuropathology,” dubbed “the glue of the brain.” Over the four years he spent researching these cells, Noori looked at how they are the brain’s biggest support system and help “keep neurons alive and healthy.” Glial cells include microglia, “the resident immune cells of the central nervous system,” and astrocytes, the “jack of all trades.” Within his studies, he aimed to discover how microglia and astrocytes can “shapeshift” and appear differently across patients with neurodegenerative diseases, even those who had similar outward symptoms. His question, then, was whether similar processes drove neurodegeneration, and he found that glial cells were one of the main culprits. He designed machine learning-based approaches to extract images of cells in the brain.
In the future, Noori sees himself leveraging the benefits of both entrepreneurship and academia. Currently a biology fellow for Fifty Years, a San Francisco based deep technology venture capital firm, he supports scientists who have made breakthrough discoveries in the lab and helps them translate that work into applicable ventures for the real world. These discoveries in biotechnologies and therapeutics have long been separate from the entrepreneurial world, Noori says, but he hopes to “integrate them together to create a better future for patients like my grandma who really need it.”
So what keeps Noori going? And when does he find the time to sleep? “It’s about making time for what’s personally important for me,” he says. “In some small part, I am playing a role in moving the envelope forward on these horrific healthcare challenges. And that, to me, is of paramount importance.”
Sections
On Wednesday, March 2, a crowd of Harvard students clusters around the newest Mercedes AMG Petronas Formula One race car. Flown in from Luxembourg that morning, the silver and green race car, expected to be one of the fastest F1 cars this season, is parked outside the Harvard Business School’s Baker Library.
The library doors swing open. Harvard Way, bustling with excitement, falls silent. A figure almost as tall as the door, dressed in a navy blue trench coat, slowly emerges from the library. It’s the man of the hour — Torger “Toto” C. Wolff.
After an introduction from Professor Anita Elberse of HBS, Wolff — the Mercedes AMG-Petronas F1 Team’s Team Principal and CEO — faces the crowd of energized students and jokes, “I thought Harvard was a smart university, not a group of fans.”
The Mercedes F1 Team is the most successful F1 team in the world with eight consecutive world championship wins, a feat that has not been achieved by any other team. Wolff leads a team of 1,400 employees, including drivers Lewis C. D. Hamilton and George W. Russell.
In February of this year, Elberse, who teaches “The Business of Entertainment, Media, and Sports” at HBS, published a case study on Wolff’s team in which she analyzes the “secret to his and his team’s success.” She went to races in the past F1 season and interviewed people within the Mercedes organization, including the drivers.
“It’s really difficult to find a team that has won what is effectively a world championship eight times in a row,” Elberse says. “Usually complacency sets in, or some other factor makes it impossible for the team to perform at the highest level. We tend to see very short life cycles for teams, but [Wolff] has kept his team at the top for eight years now. I find that really fascinating.”
Elberse invited Wolff to be a guest in her lectures and teach the case study with her. Afterwards, they led a meet and greet with the broader Harvard community, giving students the opportunity to view the Mercedes Team’s newest F1 car and ask Wolff questions.
During the Q&A period, Wolff answered questions on a variety of subjects, from racial and gender diversity in F1 to rivalries within the sport to his leadership skills.
However, he reveals that he was not always the confident leader he is now. “I remember distinctly a moment in my 30s when I was a guest at the Monte Carlo Grand Prix and I felt so shit because all these people were so successful and working in Formula One and I couldn’t imagine myself in that environment,” Wolff says. “I think we should speak about it. I think we should seek help.”
Wolff’s commitment to mental health awareness resonated with many students in the audience. Sean P.L. Finamore ’23, the Co-Founder and Vice President of the Harvard Undergraduate Automotive Society says, “I think that was particularly powerful for me, hearing him say that, and also being able to relate to a lot of those feelings.”
Hiromu R. Rose ’22, Co-Founder and President of HUAS, was surprised at how many people came to the meet-and-greet. “I was very excited about [the turnout] because it shows that we do have a lot of interest and traction for future events,” Rose says.
After almost 20 minutes of jumping around with my hand raised, I was chosen to ask Wolff one of the last questions of the day. In a 2019 interview with BBC, Wolff said “relentless curiosity” drives him to keep winning — how, I asked, does he maintain his curiosity?
“I try to be curious like a child every day,” Wolf answered.“Every day the world opens up in front of us. We just need to have open eyes and be curious about it.”
Sections
This spring, the Harvard University Choir will not perform the work “St. John’s Passion,” a two-hour-long oratorio composed by Johann Sebastian Bach chronicling the final moments of Jesus Christ’s life before his crucifixion, due to concerns about anti-Semitism.
Though the Passion has not been performed every single year, the work has been featured in the past as part of the Choir’s spring celebrations at Memorial Church, most recently in 2010. But controversy has long surrounded this work.
Bach’s piece draws directly from the Gospel of John and casts “the Jews” as the main aggressors in the death of Jesus, both lyrically and musically. Bach writes choruses in which the Jews sing “Crucify, crucify!” with a frenetic orchestra in the background, emphasizing their supposed violent intentions.
Dating back to at least the fourth century, Good Friday services have traditionally featured the Gospel of John’s version of Jesus’ death. “St. John’s Passion” borrows language from this Gospel, which “persistently uses the phrase ‘the Jews’ to describe those who conspired to kill Jesus,” according to Daniel Joslyn-Siemiatkoski, a scholar of Jewish-Christian relations.
“This language shifted the blame for the death of Jesus in medieval Christianity from Roman authorities to the Jewish people as a whole,” wrote Joslyn-Siemiatkoski in a spring 2019 essay. “This language about Jews in the medieval Good Friday liturgy often carried over into physical violence toward local Jewish communities.”
Though many past performances of the Passion at Harvard have not faced major backlash, a 1998 Crimson article criticized the work for its anti-Semitism in the context of a performance by the Boston Cecilia, a Boston-based choral group. “John depicts the Jews as a vengeful, cowardly mass that appeals to Pilate and Caesar’s law to do their dirty work for them,” the article reads.
Prior to coming to the decision not to perform the Passion, Edward E. Jones, director of the Harvard University Choir, sought to educate the choir about the work’s history.
“Whenever we have performed the work, I have addressed head-on with the choir — and the audience — the problems that are inherent to this Gospel narrative,” Jones wrote in an email.
The Choir last performed the Passion in March 2010, when it was also directed by Jones. Jones says he does not recall any pushback when it was performed in 2010.
“At that time I addressed the problems inherent in the Gospel text with the choir and audience alike, through pertinent articles, dialogues within the choir, informative program notes, and a pre-concert talk,” Jones wrote.
This year, just over a decade later, Jones at first followed a similar method, sharing theological and musicological articles about the piece with choir members, and providing background and context for the controversial passages.
This time, though, Jones ultimately concluded that the “state of the world at this moment” would make performing the work untenable this spring due to “the possibility for misinterpretation.”
Before pulling the plug on the performance of the Passion, Jones reached out to Rabbi Jonah C. Steinberg, executive director of Harvard Hillel, and Matthew I. Potts, Pusey Minister in the Memorial Church, to “discuss various aspects of the work.” Steinberg said he generally does not interfere with how other religious entities carry out their services, but he felt compelled to voice his opinion on the potential performance in Memorial Church.
“We chaplains each do not usually tell the other's community how to practice,” Steinberg wrote in an email. “I wish I could say that a choir of Harvard students singing St. John’s Passion under kindly musical direction ipso facto would counter or even nullify the work’s anti-Judaism; but if one animates the piece according to its spirit – as surely a skilled Harvard choir would – then I doubt we can say its nature is subdued.”
After their consultation, on Saturday, Feb. 19, Jones made the final decision to change the repertoire for their April 3 concert from Bach’s St. John Passion to two other choral masterpieces by Bach, citing concerns about fanning anti-Semitic bigotry on campus.
“The sad truth is that the world (and the U.S.) is in a very fractious state, and even on this campus there is a lamentable rise in hate-crime; on reflection, it didn’t seem like the right time to present this piece,” Jones wrote. “Despite all our efforts at a critical exegesis of the work—including substantial program notes and dialogue before the concert—it would sadden me deeply to think that anyone attending the work could think, quite wrongly, that this choir/church is promoting a message of hate,” he added.
Steinberg was pleased with Jones’ decision not to have the Choir perform the work in Memorial Church. Still, he acknowledges the cultural value of analyzing “St. John Passion” in an academic context.
“As a Jewish chaplain at Harvard, I appreciate the decision at Memorial Church not to put on the St. John Passion this spring,” Steinberg wrote.
“I generally abhor censorship, and I believe in confronting history head on,” Steinberg wrote. “I certainly believe Bach’s St. John Passion should be studied, musically, culturally, and historically.”
Jones clarifies that his decision was based on particular campus conditions, not on an ideological principle. “In my case, this is not an ideological statement saying that I don’t think this piece should ever be done, I don’t think the gospel should ever be read,” he said in an interview. “I’m saying in this particular instance, on this particular campus at this particular moment, it just seemed like not the right time to do it.”
“Censorship had nothing to do with my decision,” he wrote in a separate email.
Rena A. Cohen ’22, the senior choir secretary of the Harvard University Choir, said that she hopes Jones’ actions can serve as an important example of “coming together and making a decision as a community.”
“I hope it can serve as a model for other musical groups that are thinking of performing works that have a difficult history,” she said.
“This is the best of what can happen when people who think about things together, think about things together,” Steinberg said.
Sections
MMFW: After my first day at Morning Prayers, I felt like I had a secret. Leaving Memorial Church, I was quickly folded into the stream of people crisscrossing the Yard. Sunlight shone across the banks of snow, and I thought of how, moments before, I was watching it spread across the smooth round pillars in the chapel. The sun illuminated these textures so similar and so different as phrases from that morning’s sermon settled on my spirit:
Your Father knows what you need before you ask it. Prayer is not about providing information. Prayer is not about getting what you want. Prayer is a posture, placing ourselves in the order of creation. The subtext of every prayer to God is to say, “I am not God.” We are all vulnerable and finite creatures in need of the grace of God. 
I hadn’t been expecting to buy into it so easily. But I was struck by how tightly the words stuck, and I held the sermon like a gleeful confidence on my walk to class. I couldn’t wait to go back the next day, and I asked all my friends to come with me.
I’d wanted to see what I could gain from returning to more structured, traditional spiritual practices. Morning Prayers at Memorial Church have run every weekday since the College’s founding. It’s an interdenominational Protestant church, and the services run 15 minutes, from 8:30 to 8:45 a.m. They sing, they preach, they sing, and then you’re free to go.
When I told my mom I had started going to church, she was shocked. I am the product of an interfaith marriage. My mother is a non-practicing Catholic; I’m sure she wishes I went to Mass with her more. My dad is a Jew, and my parents ultimately chose to raise my brother and me as Jewish — but only after breaking up numerous times before their engagement over the issue. We always have a Christmas tree, but just as reliably, someone always cries on Christmas.
My mom’s first question about Morning Prayers: “As in, they believe in Jesus?” Her second question: “Did you tell your father?”
MMFW & APK: It’s a fair question to wonder why a Jew would go searching for spiritual connection in a church instead of a synagogue. But the catalyst behind Maya’s choice to attend Morning Prayers was not of divine origin: we had been paired together for this assignment, to write a piece about the state of spiritual life at Harvard.
The two of us are not spiritual experts by any means. We were both raised Jewish — gone to Hebrew School, celebrated our b’nai mitzvot, ate apples and honey on Rosh Hashanah and fasted on Yom Kippur. That being said, we had both increasingly lost touch with Judaism as we grew older: Alec drifted more toward secularity, while Maya found comfort in spiritual practices and experiences outside of institutionalized religion. But both of us wanted to do on-the-ground reporting in a variety of spiritual places and practices on campus. Religious practice can feel very “either/or,” so this seemed like a moment for the “both/and” approach. Our approach found us trudging through the snow, flurries falling on our heads and framing our faces, as we walked to Chabad for Sunday brunch.
Sitting down with our whitefish spread, Chabad felt like an apt place to look before venturing into unfamiliar terrain. We had come here to eat bagels with Rabbi Hirschy Zarchi.
Rabbi Hirschy told us that he founded Harvard Chabad 24 years ago out of a passion for helping students reconnect with their Jewish identity. Maya, laughing, said she always felt reconnected to her identity as a Jew talking to any Jewish man who remotely resembles her father. Rabbi Hirschy has a booming laugh and a remarkable ability to remember students’ names. When he first came to Cambridge to see about founding a Chabad chapter, he set up a table in the midst of the craziness of Harvard Square offering Shabbat candles and prayers.
He described the array of people who would approach him: “Catholic woman comes over and says, ‘This is wonderful, you’re bringing God’s message to the square.’ A Jew comes over all embarrassed and says, ‘Oh, you shouldn't be doing this. You’re breeding antisemitism.’” And then, most importantly: “There’s the searching Harvard student who comes innocently asking questions.”
In the decades since, the number of these “searchers” has only increased. Currently, about three in 10 U.S. adults are religious “nones,” doubling the fraction from 15 years ago. These “nones” include atheists, who make up four percent of U.S. adults, agnostics, who make up another four percent, and those who describe themselves as “nothing in particular” at 20 percent. While all these groups have grown in recent years, it’s this final category, the “nothing in particulars,” that has led the charge.
The two of us saw ourselves in this last group. We both floated somewhere between the poles of committed faith and complete atheism, reluctant to adopt a label in either direction. We wanted answers about where to find spiritual orientation for ourselves and for others like us — those who aren’t exactly sure what they’re looking for, or if they’re even looking.
“There’s thousands wandering. They want to connect,” Rabbi Hirschy told us.
On behalf of our fellow wanderers, we took this project on as a personal challenge as much as a journalistic one, setting out to immerse ourselves in a variety of religious and spiritual experiences at Harvard in the hopes that some of them would stick. We searched in all of the traditional locales — churches, temples, meditation rooms, and bagel brunches — but also in unexpected places, like sports teams, dinner tables, and a few parties. We spoke with 20-year-olds and an 87-year old, the chaplains of the Quaker Friends Society, the Baha’i Society, and a Catholic astronomer. As two largely non-practicing Jews, we set out to explore these valences of belief and nonbelief on campus, and to see what we might be missing.
APK: At 9 p.m. on a brisk Wednesday night, I found myself on the Harvard football field, searching for God in the beaming stadium lights.
This was the first ultimate frisbee practice of the semester, and a small crowd of players had gathered. The group looked experienced — some wore the group t-shirts from the previous year; most wore cleats. I was wearing stiff jeans and worn black Vans, looking like the specter of a skater boy from the 2000s. And Vans, I would learn the hard way, were not made for running.
We hopped the chain-link fence onto the field and split into groups to begin tossing frisbees. It quickly became clear to me that I was one of the weakest players in the group. When I tossed the disc, it veered to the right, or to the left, or overhead, or skidded sharply to the ground. Every time it slipped through my hands, I averted my eyes and felt my cheeks burn.
During one of the water breaks, some of the newcomers were making conversation. One freshman asked me what dorm I was in, sparking vivid memories of orientation week and the clamor for new connections. When I told him that I was an upperclassman, he tried to hide his surprise. Why would anyone join a new sports team three years into Harvard? 
By this point in college, I had raced through extracurricular activities, stacked my CV, and found my friends. But there was something missing, an absence I couldn’t name. So in the opening week of junior year, I wandered into the club fair among hordes of freshmen, shuffled through the parallel rows of folding tables, and walked away with my name on over 15 email lists — for rock climbing, swimming, bodybuilding, and men’s ultimate frisbee.
Halfway into my first practice, though, my flat shoes failed me. I went tumbling headfirst into the turf. With a mouthful of black rubber pellets, I limped over to the edge of the field and squatted against a wall, catching my breath. What am I doing here? I looked up at the broad stadium arches, at the rows of cement benches stacked above the field like pews. For a moment, the stadium reminded me a little bit of my old Jewish temple.
I hadn’t been to temple since my bar mitzvah, which was nearly a decade ago. When I was younger, I would stare at the glowing red torch that hung above the bimah, the platform where the holy books are read. While the congregation sang psalms in unison, I used to wonder if that was God in there, flickering, blinking.
Now, on the football field, I stared up at the beaming overhead lights, the tall spires that pierced the dark sky. That old, familiar feeling surged in me. But this time, listening for the echoes of hymns, I could only hear the shouts of players and the deafening wind of autumn night.
MMFW: The only person who took me up on the offer to join me at Morning Prayers was one of my closest friends here, Katie. Katie might be the most spiritually proactive person I know: she spent her January monastery-hopping on various meditation retreats, and she’s planning on spending spring break doing a completely silent meditation.
Morning Prayers was far from a perfect ritual for me. The morning Katie came with me, we got breakfast beforehand. As we were sitting in Adams with our bowls of oatmeal, she asked, “It starts at 8:45, right?” I shook my head: “8:30.” She got up immediately. “Oh, dude, we need to go right now.”
On days I went alone, it wasn’t uncommon for me to be four minutes late to a 15-minute service. Some days I did not make it out of bed at all. But the doors were open anyway, and Katie and I easily slipped into one of the pews in the back.
There are a lot of things that make me feel like a mess. My perpetual lateness is one of them. Katie’s somehow managing to make it to yoga class every day is another. I hoped that establishing a spiritual practice would help resolve some of this mess, iron out the anxieties and habits that keep me from feeling particularly exalted. But at times, I couldn’t tell if this spiritual regimen was providing comfort or just revealing more to worry about.
Nevertheless, I continued the search for spiritual fulfillment. I reached out to Donna Hakimian, the former chaplain for the Harvard Baha’i Association. She talks a mile a minute, and her brightness is palpable even over Zoom. Through our conversation, I learned about the Baha’i Faith, a relatively young Persian religion. Donna described her belief that virtues — compassion, unity, truth — are developed in the womb of this life for birth into the next.
“The older I get, the more it is truly drawing closer to love and closer to compassion, and getting further from that which just feels like a mirage or an illusion,” Donna said.
She named it without prompting: the illusion, the delusion. That ever-shifting mirage. I struggle to trust myself all the time. It’s deeply intertwined with my anxiety and perception of self. I second-guess my decisions, how I spend my time, and what I want to be doing on a moment-to-moment basis. Do I really want to spend the next three years of college studying gender? What the hell am I supposed to do with my summer? Was I awkward at lunch earlier today? 
There’s an element of narcissism in worrying like this. I know, at the end of the day, the little worries generally slip away and the path reveals itself in time. But I feel like life is teaching me the same lessons over and over again. And the person I want to be, the life I want to live, seems far away from where I stand. How can I begin to bridge the gaps between expectation and reality? Is spiritual practice the route? Is therapy? The ego continues to interfere, and the emotional self doesn’t quite respond to logic the way we’d like it to. It’s hard to trust the path.
Thankfully, Donna had some wisdom to share with respect to the ego. “The ego operates from scarcity, and fear, the energy of extreme self-doubt,” she said. “I know for me, it's almost paralyzing. What do people think of me? I’m not good enough.” The types of thoughts she described were exactly the ones I’m talking about, but they can feel a lot more subtle when I encounter them between and during my own interactions.
Donna assured me that perfectionism isn’t the goal. “We just have to learn to manage [the ego] rather than eliminate it entirely. What I love too, [is for Baha’i] there’s no idea of original sin or hellfire and damnation or any of that,” she continued. “It’s all about trying with our full effort to transcend, and loving those broken parts of ourselves too.”
The broken parts of myself. I hadn’t realized that this process was going to so directly involve exploring insecurity. What are the broken parts of myself? Oh jeez.
When I finally sat down with Katie at the back of the chapel, taking my now familiar place among the congregation, my anxieties about our tardiness and the bouncing thoughts of “ego, ego, ego” settled down for a moment. We rose together when they told us to and began reciting the Lord’s Prayer. Out of the corner of my eye, I could see Katie’s mouth moving around the words in sync with my own. We’d prayed together before, but not like this. It was strange and lovely to suspend this collective but previously unrecognized ritual between us, in the morning, with all the other voices sounding around us.
APK: Months after eating turf on the frisbee field, during a conversation with Reverend Adam Lawrence Dyer, I realized that this idea — that there was something spiritual to be found in non-religious spaces, even football fields — was not so far-fetched.
“If I had a personal mission I could offer, it would be to help Harvard redefine, or re-understand, what faith community can be,” said Dyer, who is the Unitarian Universalist chaplain at Harvard. “It’s not just your grandfather’s church, or your grandmother’s synagogue, or your cousin’s temple.”
Nobody was surprised when I decided to stop going to temple. My parents aren’t super religious to begin with, and my synagogue categorizes itself under “Reform Judaism.” In my temple, most families eat leavened bread during Passover, while the families at other synagogues eat flat sheets of matzah. I’ve seen many of my Jewish friends undergo a similar journey with their faith. After their bar and bat mitzvahs, they “graduate” out of Judaism — stop attending temple, stop reading the Torah, even stop celebrating some of the major holidays. Hanukkah stays, Purim goes.
For Reverend Dyer, this kind of religious rupture in young adulthood is not uncommon. “My experience with students on campus is often in that place of searching, and disconnection from home religions, or birth religions,” he said. Reverend Dyer told me that one major source of this disconnection is sexuality, and he strives to help struggling students reconcile their faith with their queerness.
As we were speaking, a memory from temple I had long since buried rose to the surface. At the end of each service, the rabbi would ask us to spend a few minutes praying silently. When you’re ten years old and told to pray to God, you can only interpret that as praying for something. Most of my friends prayed for new toy cars, or to win their swim meets. But every day, I sat in the pews, pressed my palms together, and plainly asked God to make me not gay. Then I would open my eyes, stand up, and willfully forget about my prayers.
I guess I was feeling especially vulnerable that day, because I shared this story with Reverend Dyer. “So you understand what it's like to have to position your life, I don’t wanna say in opposition to, but in the context of your faith,” he said. “It’s not always easy.”
I won’t pretend that my sexuality was the sole reason I stopped going to temple. But this prayer, repeated week after week, might help explain why I began to associate religious life with disingenuity, with the feeling of unbelonging. And when I walked out of my bar mitzvah, tallit wrapped around my neck and kippah on my head, I shut the heavy wooden doors behind me.
MMFW: Like many people, I lost someone during the pandemic. Last spring, my father’s father, the Jewish patriarch of our family, passed away. My family has not yet had the opportunity to gather together and mourn his loss.
I have had a very hard time processing my grandfather’s passing. My grandpa always had a stack of light blue index cards in one of his pockets, which he’d use to play hangman with my brother and me at family dinners. I’d only see my grandparents once or twice a year, but he was remarkably easy to talk to and always eager to listen. Especially since I started working on this piece, there have been so many questions I’ve wanted to ask him.
My grandfather was a very religious person. He was raised an Orthodox Jew in Brooklyn, where he went to Ramaz High School before coming to Harvard. Throughout the rest of his life — his marriage, his career, raising four kids — his steadfast commitment to his Judaism did not waiver. A year before his death, he was 86. No one could persuade him not to observe the fast for Yom Kippur.
My grandpa was also in Adams when he went here. Sometimes when I walk around the Yard, I try to imagine how the trees might’ve looked then, in 1955. I think of how he was here, in this same place, at the same moment in his life, and I’m certain that he was encountering some similar questions. This email he sent to all of us kids and grandkids in January 2021 seems to confirm:
Good Morning !בקר טוב 
The sun has risen - ‘Let there be Light’ !
Say, ‘Good Morning !’ with a smile to your housemates, to anyone you meet
later in the morning.
Have breakfast, maybe more slowly than you should, given the full schedule 
of the day ahead.
Try to smile, even if the newspaper or the TV tries to make you angry or scared or dumbfounded - or all of those.
In the words of my freshman roommate in Strauss Hall, Ratus Lee Charles Michael Kelly, Jr., AB’55, Harvard College, greeting a grumpy Larry Fishman,
struggling to extricate himself from the bedsheets:
‘Arise to the work of the Lord !’
DON’T join in the inevitable answer of his roommate:
‘Let the Lord do His own work, Ratus...’
Love - Dad/GrandPa (+beautiful sleeping Mom/GrandMa)
Grief is bewildering to me. I find it unimaginably frustrating that there is no blueprint, very little contemporary understanding of how to deal with grief, how to talk about it. Part of me hoped that through this exploration, I might find some solace — or, at the very least, give myself more space to process his passing.
APK: After my dramatic departure from Judaism, I followed the pendulum swing to the extreme, entering my “edgy atheist” phase. Fueled by acute teenage angst, I read books and watched videos with titles like “God’s God” and “The Thing God Doesn’t Know” about the oh-so-obvious nonexistence of the divine. Along with third-wave emo music and that one time I used permanent marker as eyeliner, atheism was my own little “fuck you” to the world.
The groundbreaking argument my smug teenage brain conjured up was this: the Big Bang proves that God doesn’t exist, and if God doesn’t exist, then all religions and spiritual practices are, to quote my articulate adolescent phrasing, “dumb.”
My teenage self would have been shocked to meet Karin Öberg, a Catholic astronomy professor at Harvard. She came into her faith somewhat later in life, as a senior in college. As we spoke, I spotted a small, silver cross around her neck. She told me that her faith was founded on a rational and intellectual certainty of the divine.
Remembering my own “rational” adolescent convictions, I asked Öberg about her thoughts on the Big Bang theory, which I’d previously understood to be the rational nail in the coffin for all religious belief. “The Big Bang is a well under-pinned scientific theory of the first moments of the universe, of this extremely dense, hot state and how it starts to expand,” she said. “It doesn't explain where this extremely hot and dense state comes from. I mean, that’s just not part of the Big Bang theory.”
The rest of my conversation with Professor Öberg nailed down this central point — that science and faith are not mutually exclusive. Science couldn’t prove or disprove the existence of the divine, nor could it invalidate the worth of spiritual experiences, rituals, and community. This is something I finally discovered as I aged out of angst, rubbing the eyeliner from my eyes, and it toppled the pillars of my atheism.
The problem was, after the structure and support of Jewish faith, I depended on atheism as a stable platform of belief. I had become a committed believer in negation — in not God, not faith, not religion. After I gave up atheism, I was completely unmoored, a believer in nothing at all.
MMFW: Generally, when I asked Katie and the other people I spoke with how they defined “spirituality,” they would say something along the lines of drawing closer to love, healing through connection, or acknowledging something beyond ourselves. For the most part, this tracked.
But I couldn’t quite make sense of the promise of healing and strength that seemed so central to religious belief. The truth of the matter is that sometimes people are hurt so badly they can’t heal. People often learn to live with trauma — they don’t heal from it.
I kept coming back to Donna’s words: “The older I get, the more it is truly drawing closer to love and closer to compassion, and getting further from that which just feels like a mirage or an illusion.”
But what if that love and compassion — that potential for healing — is an illusion itself, a willful blindness to the very real ways in which people suffer and cannot heal? What if you’re not moving closer to the truth, you’re telling yourself another lie to help rationalize your suffering. I felt myself growing weary of what I saw as a sort of spiritual “toxic positivity.” It’s easy and tempting to let myself be held in community. It’s easy to go to Morning Prayers with Katie and enjoy the placid safety of Memorial Church.
This occurred to me as Donna was talking about her graduate work, which included a study of Iranian women who had been incarcerated for their Baha’i practice and belief. But rather than focus on what these women endured, she was adamant about the potential for healing through prayer, community, and ultimately, love.
Enter the skeptic: “So you believe healing is always possible?” I asked her.
“I shouldn’t make it such a blanket statement,” Donna replied. She observed that these women’s commitment to the Baha’i Faith afforded them particular strength in the face of persecution. “There were ways in which the healing was tied up to their spiritual practice,” she said. “It was the reason they were in prison, but it was also their source of healing.”
It’s hard for me to reconcile religion’s potential for healing with the reality that it can so often be the direct cause of suffering. Maybe this is because I cannot imagine having a conviction strong enough that I’d rather be in prison than recant my beliefs.
Unsatisfied, I wanted to collect as many perspectives on this as I could. And unraveling this apparent “paradox of suffering” made me wonder how my grandpa made sense of it all. And since I couldn’t speak to him (at least not directly), I had my dad put me in touch with one of his college roommates.
Dr. Bennet Simon ’55 is a retired psychiatrist who lives with his wife in Jamaica Plain. Like my grandfather, he grew up in Brooklyn as an observant Jew — by late adolescence, he was even more religious than his family. At Harvard, he and my grandfather spoke about their shifting spiritual orientations and the compromises they made — taking classes on Saturdays, being more lenient about kashrut. They took Jewish Studies classes together at the Hebrew College in Dorchester and bonded through teaching at a Jewish Sunday school in Somerville.
But Dr. Simon told me that his sense of spirituality actually changed more later in life, watching his own kids raise kids, than it did when he and my grandfather were young. “I think I become, in some very loose sense of the word, more spiritual. I think the biggest change for me with age was a growing awareness of things bigger than myself,” he explained. “I used to know more than I know now.”
This humility helps Dr. Simon make sense of suffering, or at least cope with it. “To be human is to endure suffering and endure the unfairness of it. ‘Why?’ I have generally not found that such a useful question. I think a more useful question is how to help other people with their suffering and how to help other people help you with your suffering.”
I wanted to find a clearer connection between the cause of suffering and its remedy. But again and again, I was told that the cause was simply “we don’t know,” and the remedy was “try your best.” Intellectually, this was not comforting.
But that doesn’t mean the conversations themselves were unsatisfying. Though I was still struggling to rationalize the contradictions I was encountering, I was routinely floored by the vulnerability of the people I spoke with. On our first meeting, these individuals were ready to jump right into the heart of my uncertainty and share their own experiences attempting to reconcile these questions. If the answers were frustrating, or even if there weren’t any answers at all, they wanted to talk seriously with me about it. Their openness was incredibly nourishing.
I loved hearing Dr. Simon elaborate on his conception of spirituality: “It’s an extra dimension of myself. It’s myself but it also connects with other people, alive and dead, present and absent. I love very old things. I love ancient things.”
On the topic of ancient things and ancient practices, prayer quickly entered the conversation. Dr. Simon described it as familial and familiar. “My grandmother did pray a lot. My mother prayed a lot, privately. Tearfully welcoming the Shabbat,” he recounted. “She prayed to her father who had died, later her grandparents, and when her mother died she prayed in Yiddish. ‘They should be good intercessaries in prayer’: they are close to God so they can transmit the prayers. This was a very powerful belief. I don’t have faith in God, but I have faith in my mother’s ability to talk to God.”
But as with his expanding notion of spirituality, Dr. Simon finds connection in a variety of ancient things. After our conversation, I could accept that when the questions are too confounding, it’s okay to seek alternative means of solace rather than definite answers.
Dr. Bennet told me how his wife is very active in the arboretum, where the two enjoy strolling amongst the ancient plants. “We were walking today in the arboretum. There is a very ancient flower, the magnolias,” he told me. “I feel very grateful to be in touch with magnolias.”
APK: Adrift from Judaism and now atheism, I went looking for spiritual anchors. On one Wednesday evening, the soft breeze guided me down the ramp of Grays Hall, into a Harvard Meditation Club meeting.
Earlier that week, I had spoken to the club’s faculty advisor, Social Studies Lecturer Bo-Mi T. Choi. Like Reverend Dyer, Choi believed that spiritual experiences could be found in unexpected places, including sports teams and even dance parties. The key point, she stressed, is that you need to find “some sort of fellowship, and one that’s not based on achievement.”
The word “fellowship” struck a chord, and it explained why meditation hadn’t worked when I tried it the first time. About two years ago, my therapist told me to meditate once a day to help pull me out of a rough depressive episode. I would sit down on my bed in the early morning, plug in my headphones, and listen to one of those guided meditation apps. It worked for about six months. But there was something clinical about this kind of meditation, something isolating. It was a spiritual practice completely devoid of fellowship.
This time around, though, I entered the meditation room and sat down in the small circle of colorful pillows. The group started with five, and every time someone new entered, I wrongly assumed that they would be the last. Soon the room was filled with 15 eager meditators, smiling and chatting, sitting criss-crossed on the floor.
Our leader guided us through a metta prayer in which we closed our eyes and imagined our loved ones standing at our sides. In the beginning, I felt scared to breathe, to make any noise at all. But soon I realized that the awkward noises — coughs, adjustments, rumbling stomachs — were not interruptions but actually an essential part of the communal experience.
In my favorite moment, we were asked to turn our attention to everyone else in the room. I noticed the layers of soft breathing and the warmth of bodies around me. And somehow, I felt held by this small group, these people who barely knew my name.
This kind of communal practice seems to run against the rapid current of everyday life on campus. “What I see at Harvard is the pursuit of so-called excellence, but how it manifests is people hurrying from one thing to another, always in a rush, always looking for the next big thing, just to fill up that void that’s inside of them,” said Choi. “And if you really ask yourself what motivates that sort of approach, if you look deeply, it’s fear. And then you have to ask yourself, as a human being, do you want to live a life of fear?”
On that night we were a group of strangers, holding space for each other as we took refuge from the grinding hustle of college life. Grays Basement was our bunker, filled with rainbow pillows and warm air. The beginning of my new Wednesday night ritual.
MMFW: One of the reasons I started going to Morning Prayers was because I overheard some people talking about it next to me in class, and naturally had to ask for details. That’s how I met Roddy Emley ’24. Then I started running into him everywhere: church, a queer movie screening, the Serenity Room in Grays basement.
Over bourekas at Tatte, looking at the people huddled around tables and mugs, Roddy said to me, “Being in Tatte is kind of like being in church.”
“But the incentives are a little different,” I countered, laughing.
“I feel like Durkheim,” he said. “The totem of coffee.”
Roddy describes his family as Catholic but largely agnostic: “We didn’t go to church, we didn’t talk about God, we didn’t pray.” His sense of spirituality really came into consciousness in the past two years.
From where I sit across the table, it seems like Roddy’s relationship with spirituality works because it’s voluntary, it’s active, and he’s able to tailor his practice to his needs. “Oh, I change prayers all the time,” he told me. “I don’t like evil, I say deliver us from loneliness. I say ‘give us our daily grace’ and not ‘give us our daily bread.’ It’s not about just saying a prayer, it’s about saying, ‘what does this prayer mean to me?’”
Roddy was patient with me as I explained the spiritual contradictions I had been struggling with. His response to the question of suffering was the most concise and articulate I have received. “I don’t know why people suffer. I think a lot of shit just happens. I don’t think we should ascribe suffering to a reason that is divine,” he explained. “That can be dangerous. We are not deserving of our suffering. A lot of suffering is caused by humans, and therefore it's a human problem. Not a divine one.”
Even as my idea of spirituality evolves with my life, it doesn’t have to explain all parts of life, and I probably shouldn’t view everything through that lens. Hearing Roddy explain his philosophy clarified exactly what I want my relationship with spiritual practice to look like: taking what serves me, and leaving the rest.
One thing that I came to really appreciate about Morning Prayers was the safety I felt there. It was comforting to be in the presence of other people who were also choosing to start their day at services. But I also enjoyed that I didn’t have to speak to a soul if I didn’t want to: I could slip in, sit in the back, and leave without saying a word. No potential for conflict, no stakes. It was a much different level of intensity than what I experience in most of my other relationships, and quite a refreshing one. I still came to recognize a lot of the people who sat before me, and I found comfort in the dependability of some collective presence there. People would always be at Morning Prayers.
APK: Ironically, for two wandering Jews who were hoping to feel connected to each other through spiritual practice, we spent a lot of time on our own. While Maya was in church, I was meditating. While I was coming out to strangers on the phone, she was talking to 87-year-olds about magnolias.
That being said, our conversations often mirrored each other. We seemed to be attempting to answer the same questions — about suffering, loneliness, ritual, and meaning. Professor Choi and I had been talking about the pandemic, and the loss of communal meals. “Being with people I care about, and feeding them — I’m so fed by that, and nourished by that,” Choi said.
Then, after a small pause, she continued, “It’s a certain kind of nourishment, I suppose. Spirituality is, ultimately, a form of nonmaterial nourishment that we all need to feel human.”
It turned out that Maya had quite a similar conversation with Rabbi Hirschy. “And we spoke before about the wandering Jews, right?” said Hirschy. “What I was referring to is, essentially, some Jewish souls wandering because they’re hungry. And what are they hungry for? Manna from Heaven! They're hungry for spiritual nourishment.”
MMFW: After having all these conversations, Alec and I sat down over a meal to assemble our thoughts. Wrapped in my favorite scarf, I trekked out to his house through a blizzard, and Alec folded me into the warmth of his home.
We’d planned to cook our dinner that night, and my offering was three zucchinis that had been sitting in my vegetable drawer for a week. I realize now that we missed a golden opportunity to pray before we ate, though we did share a spliff on the deck (Alec’s interjection: “don’t we consider smoking a kind of communal ritual?”).
There’s no doubt that the act of preparing and sharing a meal with someone is often of spiritual resonance. After we cleared our plates, Alec and I crawled into his bed and sat there, typing and typing, our faces illuminated by our screens until two in the morning. Our bellies were full, but the moment I felt the most nourished, the most held, was when he looked over at me and said, “You know you’re welcome to spend the night, right?”
Four weeks ago, Alec and I were complete strangers. Last night, a day after turning in our first draft of this piece, I squealed and ran across a crowded room at a party to wrap him in a massive hug. As “Your Love is My Drug,” by iconic priestess of pop, Ke$ha, came on the speakers, I grabbed his hand and twirled. Gratitude fell across me as we screamed the words to this unexpected gospel — dancing, buzzing, with our hands clasped together.
— Magazine writer Alec P. Kahn can be reached at alec.kahn@thecrimson.com.
— Magazine writer Maya M. F. Wilson can be reached at maya.wilson@thecrimson.com.
Sections
In his training as a doctor, Jeffrey D. Rediger learned to be skeptical of spontaneous healing. So when his colleague at Massachusetts General Hospital told him she managed to achieve cancer remission after a stay at a holistic healing center, he considered her recovery a fluke.
But in the early 2000s, he kept encountering more patients whose cases intrigued him. For instance, a woman named Jan Shaw managed to heal from late-stage lupus and multiple organ failure. “People wouldn’t recognize her anymore because she had so fundamentally changed in her appearance and way of living,” Rediger remembers. “I [was] talking to a happy, healthy woman.”
In 2003, he decided to collect and examine these cases to better understand what was behind these spontaneous recoveries. “Although I was able to fit most of those stories into the worldview that I’d been trained in as a physician, some of them I couldn’t,” he explains.
Rediger, who serves as an assistant professor of psychiatry at Harvard Medical School and the Medical Director of McLean SouthEast Adult Psychiatry and Community Affairs, has a lifetime of experience making sense of seemingly paradoxical beliefs.
When Rediger was young, his family embraced Amish values. “I grew up going to public school during the day, but living in a very different worldview at home,” he remembers. “And so at a young age, I was questioning, ‘how do you reconcile really different worldviews?’” In 1989, Rediger received a Master of Divinity degree from Princeton Theological Seminary. Almost a decade later , in 1997, he was still continuing his quest to understand different belief systems when he graduated from Indiana University Medical School.
He says the contrasting perspectives of the two forms of education he received allowed him to re-evaluate the world from a more holistic perspective. Modern institutions seemed too “deficit-based,” focusing more on what was wrong or missing than on the innate good within a situation. Psychiatry focused on neurochemical deficits, psychology on childhood deficits, and religion on moral deficits, rather than embracing a more complete picture.
He believes much of Western medicine trains doctors to treat the body alone. Often, he says, doctors do not consider how environmental factors can shape one’s neurochemistry, which in turn affects one’s health. “[As physicians,] we don't ask about what promotes authentic wellbeing,” he says. “I've realized that there’s these other factors that contribute to most illnesses that we just simply don’t engage most of the time.”
In his best-selling book “Cured: Strengthen Your Immune System and Heal Your Life,” Rediger points to many of these factors to explain cases of spontaneous healing. He’s careful to note that he adopted stringent criteria for the cases he studied. He only studied cases where there had been a clear medical diagnosis and cure that could not be explained by external factors like the patient’s taking experimental medicine. It is from these cases that he formulated his four pillars of healing and wellbeing.
The first pillar is nutrition. Rediger argues that the typical American diet is filled with high quantities of refined sugars and enriched flours which are toxic to the human body. The second pillar asks people to strengthen their immune system; due to poor nutrition and stress, many people endure chronic inflammation, which weakens their immune responses. The third pillar focuses on minimizing chronic stress.
And the fourth and most important pillar is the factor which motivates people to abide by the other three pillars: prioritizing one’s health. Rediger calls this “healing our identity, healing our false beliefs.” He notes that people often run around serving others while neglecting their own wellbeing. “It takes an illness for them to wake up and realize that they…need to focus on what creates life and authentic well being for them,” he explains.
Rediger feels fortunate to be able to help map out the terrain of self-healing, but believes there is still much more to learn. His research has shown him that the various disciplines concerned with wellbeing need to be “shaped around what it means to create a human life where one can experience their value, and not feel like they’re alone.” He hopes others in his field will take an interest in spontaneous healing, too.
— Magazine writer Eden A. Getahun can be reached at eden.getahun@thecrimson.com.
— Magazine writer Katie L. Sevier can be reached at katie.sevier@thecrimson.com .
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard does not hold direct investments in Russian companies, University spokesperson Jason A. Newton wrote in a statement to The Crimson Wednesday. The proclamation comes as American institutions face widespread calls to divest their holdings from Russian businesses as the country wages war in Ukraine.
The University had previously remained silent on its investments in Russia. A few days after Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, hundreds of Harvard affiliates held a rally supporting Ukraine in Harvard Yard that called on the University to disclose its financial ties to the Kremlin.
Newton wrote that Harvard does not believe it has indirect holdings in Russian businesses.
“Like all investors, we do not have complete transparency into every investment made by third-party managers, but we believe there are no material indirect holdings with Russian corporations,” he wrote.
But some organizations and Harvard affiliates say the University needs to go further in disclosing its financial exposure to Russia.
Emily Channell-Justice, a program director at Harvard's Ukrainian Research Institute, said it is “reasonable to ask universities to be more transparent.”
“It's very interesting — what they've said — that they claim no direct holdings without having complete transparency,” she said.
Some critics have taken aim at donations Harvard has accepted from Leonard Blavatnik, a Ukrainian-born billionaire who sold his stake in a Russian oil company in 2013 for $7 billion. Blavatnik, a citizen of the United States and the United Kingdom, donated $200 million to Harvard Medical School in 2018.
The Anti-Corruption Action Center — a Ukrainian organization dedicated to combating corruption in the country — released a petition urging "all Western institutions to halt all forms of cooperation with Kremlin-connected entities and sponsors.”
The petition specifically calls on Harvard to rename programs and buildings that bear Blavatnik’s name, claiming that the billionaire “derives massive insider benefits from Putin’s regime, suppresses free speech, cooperates with corrupt Russian officials and funds Russian entertainment propaganda.”
Multiple programs within HMS are named after Blavatnik, including the Blavatnik Institute and the Blavatnik Biomedical Accelerator.
A spokesperson for Blavatnik’s company wrote in a 2019 statement to Mother Jones that Blavatnik “has no dealings with the Russian government or its leaders.”
Tetiana Shevchuk, the head of international programs at AntAC, said the organization is utilizing the method of “name and shame” to enact change.
“Writing them in private, asking them, would not make a difference,” she said. “So we're trying to make a momentum at least to name and shame, because in this situation, there are no excuses for very severe war crimes.”
Oleh Kotsyuba, the publication manager at the Ukrainian Institute of Research, wrote that he is “far from satisfied” by the University’s statement, arguing that Blavatnik and other wealthy individuals tied to Russian oligarchs are “laundering their reputations” through their donations to prominent universities like Harvard.
Kotsyuba criticized previous University statements — which describe Blavatnik as a “philanthropist” and his donation to HMS an “unprecedented act of generosity and support” — for omitting the billionaire’s ties to Putin.
Kotsyuba said accepting Blavatnik’s money “damages the moral standing of the University,” even though the initiatives funded by Blavatnik’s donations “represent a worthy cause.”
“At least as late as 2014, Harvard University should have removed Blavatnik’s name from all of the above initiatives and re-dedicated some of the funds received towards helping Ukrainians and supporting Ukrainian studies at Harvard and beyond,” Kotsybua said.
Russia invaded and annexed the Crimean Peninsula from Ukraine in 2014.
Newton declined to comment on criticisms of the Blavatnik donations.
Harvard affiliates have also circulated a petition in recent weeks calling on the University to support Ukrainian students and condemn Russia’s actions.
Georgiy Kent ’22, who helped publicize the petition, noted that the statement asks for support for Ukrainian Harvard students, “as well as disclosure of potential financial connections with Russia.”
Some Harvard affiliates have expressed appreciation for shows of support from students and faculty. In remarks last week, University President Lawrence S. Bacow decried the “deplorable actions of Vladimir Putin” that “put at risk the lives of millions of people and undermine the concept of sovereignty.”
“Institutions devoted to the perpetuation of democratic ideals and to the articulation of human rights have a responsibility to condemn such wanton aggression,” Bacow said.
Ilya Timtchenko, a Ukrainian Harvard Kennedy School student and founder of the Ukraine Caucus at HKS, said he wants Harvard to be “a school of principles and dignity as it preaches.”
—Staff writer Dekyi T. Tsotsong can be reached at dekyi.tsotsong@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Eric Yan can be reached at eric.yan@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Innovation Institute at the Massachusetts Technology Collaborative, a state agency, has awarded Harvard $3 million to support the development of next-generation robotics and wearable technologies.
The funding, announced in a March 2 press release, will support four research projects under a Harvard and Boston University initiative to commercialize research on medical devices for stroke recovery, injury prevention, and other rehabilitation approaches.
The research projects are housed within Harvard’s School of Engineering and Applied Sciences and the Boston University College of Health and Rehabilitation Sciences.
The researchers from both schools will collaborate at the Harvard Move Lab, a SEAS initiative that brings together engineers, clinicians, and researchers from wide-ranging disciplines.
“The thing that we are focused on doing is taking this interesting research and putting the technical maturity behind it that is necessary to move it out of a lab and into a real-world application,” Harvard Move Lab Executive Director David Perry said. “So we’re focused on translating research that can help improve people's lives.”
The project also includes two industry partners, Rewalk Robotics and Imago Rehab, both of which develop technology to assist those with mobility issues.
Imago Rehab, a startup that emerged from the Harvard Biodesign Lab one year ago, aims to develop a “telerehabilitation” service that utilizes wearable technology to remotely assist individuals with neurologic conditions, according to Clinical Programming Lead Kristin Nuckols.
“More than 5 million Americans live with some degree of upper limb paralysis after stroke and we hope to improve the lives of many in this population with our unique solution,” Nuckols wrote.
Nuckols added that the grant and collaboration with the Harvard Move Lab will enable Imago Rehab to potentially license new technologies for upper extremity stroke rehabilitation.
In the SEAS press release, Massachusetts Governor Charlie D. Baker '79 lauded the work of Massachusetts researchers, adding that this latest grant will improve patient care across the globe.
“Massachusetts is a global leader in both technology and healthcare because of our support for important research, the ability to leverage our network of partnerships, and our constant focus on fostering innovation,” he wrote.
“With these additional resources, we can advance the development of new assistive devices that will have applications for patients around the world,” Baker added.
—Staff writer Felicia He can be reached at felicia.he@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer James R. Jolin can be reached at james.jolin@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard Future of Teaching and Learning Task Force issued a report on Wednesday detailing the learning innovations inspired by the pandemic and recommending the University invest in making digital tools and new forms of online content available globally.
University President Lawrence S. Bacow and Provost Alan M. Garber ’76 convened the task force, composed of 17 Harvard faculty and administrators in February 2021 — almost a year after the Covid-19 pandemic drove Harvard classes online.
The 47-page report examines Harvard’s online learning innovations and develops strategies for faculty, schools, and the University to take advantage of them, culminating in a three-phase implementation plan.
The executive summary of the report, which acknowledges Harvard’s experimentation with remote and hybrid learning began far before the spread of the virus, cites the University’s adaptive strategies during the pandemic as opportunities for future innovation.
“Our investments in and experiences with asynchronous, synchronous, and hybrid offerings over the prior decade created essential foundations for the transition to remote teaching,” the report reads. “Now those learnings have been expanded by individual and collective innovations through the Harvard community.”
The report’s recommendations are divided into three phases by time frame: immediate, over one to three years, and long-term.
Phase One recommendations revolve around enhancing a “culture of innovation,” encouraging faculty and schools to continue exploring online forms of learning for more adaptive and interactive curricula. Schools should also expand pre-matriculation programs as well as programs accommodating remote learning, the report said. At the University-wide level, the report recommends Harvard develop standardized tools and techniques for faculty, including best practices, classroom tools, and best practices.
In the second implementation phase, recommendations shift from faculty and school-led initiatives to University-wide changes, focusing on advancing Harvard’s technology infrastructure and developing content strategies. In addition to building new classrooms equipped for online synchronous learning and space for faculty to experiment with new digital tools, the report recommends that the University build a new Harvard-wide online platform, although it offered few details on what it should look like.
The report, in its third phase of recommendations, adds that investing in the University’s digital presence could create “a more global Harvard,” offering more accessible learning experiences through “Harvard Global Learning 2.0.” The report advocated more outreach to international populations and engagement with alumni from virtual and residential programs.
Phase Three also recommends updated policies for faculty who desire to share their scholarship in “short-form and other innovative formats.”
The report cites examples of such “short-form” interactive learning formats including digital encyclopedias, faculty-sponsored podcasts, and “nano-courses,” akin to Harvard-sponsored Masterclasses.
The report concludes with the hope that Harvard can diversify and innovate its educational content as well as expand its global reach.
“We will offer an improved experience to more and better learners,” the report reads. “We will share our educators and expertise more broadly, consistently, and accessibly. And we will engage deeply with learners and communities, partners and institutions, to revolutionize access to education worldwide.”
—Staff writer Cara J. Chang can be reached at cara.chang@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @CaraChang20.
—Staff writer Isabella B. Cho can be reached at isabella.cho@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @izbcho.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
It’s the Thursday before spring break. Upperclassmen students clad in Harvard House gear are set to make their way from the John Harvard statue to freshman dorms, where they will greet eager freshmen.
At long last, Housing Day has returned.
Exactly two years after Harvard sent undergraduates home due to the Covid-19 outbreak, students will pour into Harvard Yard for the College’s first in-person Housing Day since the onset of the pandemic.
Housing Day is an annual tradition during which freshmen get assigned to one of Harvard’s 12 upperclassman Houses or the Dudley Co-Op. The College first postponed Housing Day in 2020 before moving it online after shuttering its campus. In 2021, freshmen again received their housing assignments over Zoom.
This year, the DSO has modified the festivities to comply with Covid-19 guidelines. Here’s an explanation of the new take on a storied tradition.
Every year, freshmen choose up to seven peers to live with in their future House through a process called blocking. The Dean of Students Office conducts a random lottery to determine where the blocks will end up.
In the lead-up to Housing Day, the houses and Dudley release music videos featuring their residents and highlighting their amenities.
On the eve of Housing Day, some freshmen engage in a tradition not sanctioned by the College — River Run. In a doomed attempt to avoid being assigned to a House in the remote Radcliffe Quadrangle, freshmen take shots of alcohol at each of Harvard’s nine river houses, often fettered by security guards.
The First Year Experience Office also organized a night of activities in Annenberg, including trivia, a Build-a-Bear activity, and mocktail mixing.
The DSO announced earlier this month that upperclassmen will be able to engage in modified “dorm-storming” to notify freshmen of their housing assignments.
The celebration will commence at 8 a.m. when upperclassmen representing each of the 12 Houses and the Dudley Co-Op swarm the John Harvard statue. A half-hour later, small groups of upperclassmen wearing masks will “storm” the hallways of freshman dorms, instead of entering rooms, for a maximum of five minutes.
Freshmen were granted the option of not having upperclassmen “storm” their dorm, per the DSO’s announcement. Dorm-storming is expected to conclude by 9 a.m., and any freshmen who opted out will receive an email with their House assignment by noon.
Following the festivities, the path to Annenberg Hall will be lined with decorated tables, where upperclassmen from all the Houses will hand out merchandise to freshmen on their way to lunch. Upperclassmen are allowed to eat lunch inside Annenberg on Thursday as well.
During the evening, several Houses will host in-person events to welcome the freshmen, including special dinners and steins, House-wide gatherings with food, music, and drinks.
House Committee Chair Leslie Arroyo ’23 said Dunster House originally planned to bring back certain Housing Day traditions — hosting a stein and playing golf — but changed course due to Covid-19 restrictions.
Instead, Dunster will host a dinner, ice cream bash with Faculty Deans, and a scavenger hunt. Arroyo said the Dunster-themed scavenger hunt is meant to function as a tour to get freshmen acquainted with the House layout and amenities.
Quincy’s HoCo chair, Odessa X. Deng ’22, said the house plans to host a dinner for freshmen to meet the Faculty Deans, tutors, and others in the House, complete with games and a DJ set from Faculty Dean Eric Beerbohm. Quincy will also invite freshmen to attend their first FESTA, the house’s version of stein.
Eliot House will invite freshmen to an enhanced dinner Thursday evening, per a House email.
Nina Chung ’23, HoCo chair for Currier House, said the House will invite freshmen to a dinner followed by an introduction to the Faculty Deans, House tours, and a stein with s’mores.
Chung also said that Currier’s mascot, Woody the Tree, will also attend the festivities outside Annenberg and maybe “engage in some fights” with some of the other House mascots.
—Staff writer Audrey M. Apollon can be reached at audrey.apollon@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Christine Mui can be reached at christine.mui@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @MuiChristine.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard Faculty of Arts and Sciences Dean Claudine Gay sent a plan to faculty Tuesday outlining how the FAS will implement recommendations published in October by a committee that examined Harvard’s tenure review procedures.
The changes outlined in the plan aim to improve communication and feedback between deans, candidates, and review committees; offer more guidance for those in the system; and spur more tenured faculty participation.
Most changes will go into effect on July 1, 2022. The FAS also plans to include peer observations of teaching in future tenure reviews, but does not yet have a plan for how it will implement the practice.
The tenure review process has long been contested among faculty, particularly for its use of confidential ad hoc committees. Before reaching a final appointment decision, the University president or provost can choose to convene and oversee a confidential group of administrators and scholars to review a tenure case.
After the University denied tenure to Romance Languages and Literatures associate professor Lorgia García Peña, more than 100 faculty members called for a formal review of the tenure system in December 2019. Gay agreed days later to form a review committee.
The committee’s report, released last October, called the FAS’ tenure-track system “structurally sound,” but said ladder faculty feel a “lack of trust in” and “low morale” about the process.
Gay wrote Tuesday that informational sessions will be held starting this spring to help familiarize faculty and department administrators with the amended processes.
She added that the FAS will also host sessions to clarify the roles of the Committee on Appointments and Promotions and ad hoc committees.
Tuesday’s plan seeks to increase transparency about CAP and ad hoc processes.
In the final steps of a tenure review, CAP advises the FAS dean on whether to forward a candidate’s case to the president.
Tuesday’s plan states that after CAP makes its recommendation, the divisional dean or the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences dean will give feedback to the department chair about the strengths and weaknesses of the case.
After the president meets with the ad hoc committee, the plan said, the FAS dean will provide feedback to the department chair to aid in preparation for future reviews. Should the faculty member receive the tenured position, the divisional or SEAS dean will offer feedback to the faculty member and help them evaluate how best to “contribute to Harvard’s mission.”
French professor Virginie Greene wrote in an email that the plan avoids addressing the “most contested” aspect of the review — the ad hoc committee. She said that the changes should offer feedback after unsuccessful tenure reviews.
“The plan may improve certain aspects of the review, but will not mitigate the lack of transparency and the difficult aftermath of unsuccessful tenure reviews,” she wrote.
The plan also outlined changes to associate professor criteria.
Currently, candidates have to demonstrate “sufficient promise and achievement to qualify for tenure at a major institution within three to five years.” With the new changes, candidates must exhibit the potential to qualify for tenure at Harvard, specifically. This would standardize the criteria between the associate and tenure reviews.
These changes will be implemented in the 2023-2024 academic year to allow assistant professors to receive feedback to prepare for the changes.
The plan altered and clarified guidelines relating to letters of recommendation, including the number of required letters, who may write letters, and in what cases additional evaluations may be solicited.
Associate professorship reviews will now require five letters, up from the previous guidelines allowing between three to five. For tenure reviews, departments will require a minimum of ten letters, instead of twelve to fifteen.
The plan encourages departments to provide feedback to tenure-track faculty throughout their time teaching at Harvard, and states that feedback from previous reviews will be shared with the tenure review committee.
In addition, the plan establishes a window of time during the associate and tenure review processes when the candidate and review committee may engage in limited communication to clarify any aspects of the candidate’s materials.
The FAS also encourages departments to “foster robust cultures of discussion, where colleagues can candidly debate the strengths and weaknesses of promotion cases.”
Tuesday’s plan also clarified that teaching means teaching offered in classrooms, advising refers to intellectual support, and mentoring refers to professional support.
Former Harvard College Dean Harry R. Lewis ’68, a professor of Computer Science, wrote in an email he is glad reviews will treat teaching, advising, and mentoring as separate categories of consideration, though he said it will be “messy to administer.”
“It will make tenure reports more complex, and it may not be easy to distinguish these three categories,” he wrote.
“But now department chairs will be able to say to junior faculty in complete honesty that no matter how good a performer you are in the classroom, you aren’t going to get tenure if you deservedly earn yourself a reputation for being indifferent or mean to students,” he added.
Harvard spokesperson Rachael Dane did not respond to a request for comment Thursday evening.
—Staff writer Ariel H. Kim can be reached at ariel.kim@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Meimei Xu can be reached at meimei.xu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @MeimeiXu7.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Adams never has a shortage of social events. From themed Carpe “seize the night” events every Thursday (karaoke, anyone?) to Valentine's Day Chocoholica (because what is Valentine’s Day without chocolate?), Drag Night, Winter Feast, and the Lunar New Year’s Celebration, Adams is filled with events that foster community and promote diversity.
If you’re looking for parties, head over to the Senior House (a three-story building housing a very lucky group of seniors) or to the giant suites in Westmorely (with organs??). It was hype enough for notable alums like FDR and Henry Kissinger, and it can only get more hype as renovation continues.
Adams’ new faculty deans and tutors have made it a commitment to build community among scattered housing, especially through the BGLTQ+ support and pre-career advising.
In addition to the amazing advising staff, George the building manager and the beloved HUDS staff are integral to ensuring that Adams feels like home.
According to Adams resident Kayla M. Manning ’22, first-years who’ve been sorted into Adams should “get excited.” When you join Adams, you join a diverse family situated in the heart of Harvard Square. Although the official mascot is an acorn (that’s nuts), Adams is best recognized by its colors: red and gold. It is therefore not surprising that HoCo Co-Chair Joy Wang ‘22 placed Adams in Gryffindor, and Manning noted “it has Harry Potter vibes in the Gold Room and the dining hall.”
Adams’ aesthetic is certainly worth raving about. As the current upperclassman house under renovation, it is quickly shooting to the top of the list of most desirable places to live. The question is, when will the renovations be completed? The brand-new Adams will be fully completed by 2025 on a building-by-building basis. As a result, students will have a melting pot of rooms to live in from now until then, from the spacious Westmorely to the bougie Swing Housing Apartments to The Ritz Carlton Claverley.
And it doesn’t stop there. Adams also has some of the most unique common spaces on campus. Looking for an adventure? Take a jaunt through Adams’ case space, conservatory, colorful tunnels, FDR suite (auctioned for occupation during commencement), Bow and Arrow press, or Pool Theater (where *swimming* used to happen).
All in all, Adams students have lots to get excited about with respect to housing. From the stunning architecture to the delicious renovations to the diverse, tight-knit community, Adams, in Wang’s opinion, can be described best in one word: home.
Do you think you’ll ever be able to top the 2019 Housing Day video?
JW: “Adams is a very talented house. There’s potential for it to be surpassed but I think it’s cemented its legacy.”
Which HUDS dish does Adams do best?
JW: “We have celebration cakes. We had a cake for the faculty games, we get thank-you cakes all the time. We always do a birthday cake for each month. Those cakes are pretty good.”
Any cute pets in Adams house?
JW: “We have [a] new corgi in the house, Lord Winsor. In terms of cats, I love Silas and Eliza. We also do general ‘paw-fice’ hours. The thing about the pets is that you actively see them and can actively interact with them. There’s tons of pets, and the tutors are very happy to have you come and relax, especially during midterms and finals.”
Adams is notorious for the Fall 2021 fruit fly invasion. How have you been trying to change this reputation? 
KMM: “Flies are gone.”
JW: “We now have a tradition of having a ‘Flies Club’ party once a semester. Super fun, super lit. I have yet to see a single fruit fly this semester. I think it’s a fun joke we can call back on and obviously with Flies Club now, it’s become something that’s just a fun time.”
Want to keep up with all of the goings-on in Adams? Follow @onthegoldcoast on Instagram, based on the nickname Adams acquired for being one the first dorms to get electric light and other ~fancy~ amenities (it’s lit).
Read more about the other Houses here!
Sections
Community is essential to the Quincy experience — they don’t call it “The People’s House” for no reason! With its large courtyard, welcoming dhall (oh, have we mentioned hot breakfast yet?) and creative events, Quincy makes it easy to get involved. “It’s really easy to invest in the community because there is such a strong community here,” says HoCo co-chair Odessa Deng ’22-’23. And the Quincy community extends beyond just its residents. HoCo co-chair Liam Hall ’23 says, “being so central on campus you get a lot of people from other houses who come here and this ends up being the central meeting place.”
Regular events like festas (Quincy’s version of a stein) and weekly community dinners give residents something to look forward to after a long week of classes and commitments. Recent community dinners have involved group games and a timely Olympic theme.
If that’s not enough to get excited about, Quincy’s annual traditions are widely beloved for bringing the whole house together. The House also offers annual traditions that bring everyone together! In the fall, the House holds a field day that pits academic classes head-to-head in pursuit of victory. In the spring, Quincy residents look forward to a House-wide game of assassins this Spring.
Finally, an annual lip sync battle allows residents to show off their ~artistic~ side. After two years on Zoom, Deng and Hall are especially looking forward to the event’s in-person return.
The best thing about Quincy housing is that there truly is something for everyone. From hallways singles to duplex suites, the House has every living configuration imaginable, with even the option of living in apartment-style suites in DeWolfe for sophomores.
Quincy housing is divided up between two buildings: New Quincy and Stone Hall. Some might say that this is a bit of a misnomer since Stone Hall is actually newly renovated, but either way, both buildings offer plenty of housing options. New Quincy is mostly suites with in suite bathrooms and many singles whereas Stone Hall is more varied with rooms ranging from hallway singles to larger suites.
If Quincy residents are looking to leave their rooms for a change of scenery or a fun activity, they don’t have far to go. Common spaces like the Qube — Quincy’s library — and the Dhall are great for studying and procrastinating spending time with friends. If studying doesn’t sound too appealing, there’s always the chance to try your hand at pottery in the ceramics studio.
What is one thing you want freshmen to know about your House?
OD: They’re in for a good time. And I encourage them to buy into the community because they’ll have the best experience. I do think the community is special.
LH: We look forward to inviting them into the House.
If you had to liken your house to a fruit, what fruit would it be and why?
LH: I feel like we’re a honeycrisp apple because we’re relatively large, we’re sweet and we always deliver.
OD: We’re there for everyone!
What Hogwarts house would your house get sorted into?
LH: We’re definitely not Slytherin. I feel like we’re a combination of Gryffindor and Hufflepuff
OD: We’re also smart so Ravenclaw
LH: But no Slytherin, they’re not allowed
OD: Good vibes only
If you could describe your House with a HUDS dish, what would it be?
OD: The stuffed chicken things at Sunday Brunch. Because we have hot breakfast so it reminds you of that plus they’re just good!
Read more about the other Houses here!
Sections
Lowell’s community is known for being incredibly tight-knit and sociable with plenty of unique traditions and events. Lowell Tea, complete with freshly baked goods and freshly brewed tea, is served every Thursday in the Resident Dean’s house, and during the spring semester, Lowell residents give speeches during dinner. In addition to the friendly residents and staff, there’s a multitude of cute pets and kids. Five dogs and a rabbit live in the House (pictured on Instagram @dogsoflowell), and time to time, you’ll also spot some of the adorable children of the House faculty wandering around.
Lowell’s graduation doesn’t stop the community either: “There's so many really cool high level people in the Lowell network who just come and hang out and attend Lowell Tea. You'll see them around the House and not realize that they're insanely famous,” said HoCo co-chair Brammy Rajakumar ’23.
Partying Pagan-style is also popular in Lowell. The Yule Ball is a fancy winter formal to round out the fall semester, and the spring semester brings Mayday celebrations. You can also look forward to Glowell, a glow-in-the-dark rave, which, while not Pagan, is still very vibey, as well as Bacchanalia, a toga party where a Lowell resident dresses up as the Roman god of wine and gives a speech.
Zhang summed up House spirit best: “We’re classy, but we’re extra about it. Yes, we do have a screening room, and yes, we do have high tea. Yes, we do celebrate Pagan rituals.”
Even in the midst of the pandemic, the Lowell House community is as strong as ever. In addition to weekly entryway study breaks, Rajakumar gushed about the multitude of House events: “We had a wellness event involving pet plants and also real pets… We have watch parties for the Oscars and the Super Bowl. We've tried to keep the traditions going as much as possible.”
On top of all of Lowell’s endless social events, Zhang explained the house also offered Lowell students grants to grab meals and connect to each other during the pandemic, kind of like a Datamatch 2.0 (Lowellmatch?). “[People] would go to Jefes [or] Hong Kong…to just have a cool time and be able to connect to people,” he elaborated. If you’re looking for a House that actively fosters community (or is just willing to sponsor that 1 a.m. burrito craving), then Lowell might just be the place for you.
As for what the class of 2025 has to look forward to, the HoCo Chairs are hopeful for in-person events and new merch. Rajakumar optimistically stated, “Hopefully we'll have all those cool tutor outings and trips to the Arboretum and the museums and Codzilla in person” extending the Lowell community even beyond the Harvard bubble.
Never fear: Lowell’s housing stands up to the rave reviews. Zhang notes that Lowell has a variety of “pretty decently large” accommodations. The types of rooms can vary from from two-floor duplex suites for larger blocking groups to hallway *singles*!
As for other features, the iconic Lowell bell tower can’t be forgotten. Zhang, a bell ringer himself, added that there’s an open house every Sunday at 1 p.m. and that it’s tradition to do bell ringing at Halloween at midnight and after Harvard-Yale. Near the bell, there are also some cool study nooks where students can chill and do work.
Residents also love Lowell's variety of basement spaces. “A lot of clubs do events here because our underground lounge is really cool. It's connected to the kitchen that opens up to look a little bit like a bar,” Rajakumar explained to us. So it’s safe to say that if you’re lucky enough to get Lowell, you won’t have to venture far.
Finally, rumor has it (aka according to the HoCo chairs), there’s a secret laundry room in the basement in addition to the one everyone normally uses. So, if you can find it (and keep it to yourself), your laundry wait-times substantially decrease! ;)
Still curious about Lowell? We sat down with the House’s HoCo chairs to ask them the hard-hitting questions.
What fruit would Lowell House be, and why?
BR: I think passion fruit.
JZZ: We're poppy and flair-y on the outside, but inside, we’re just as spicy and zesty.
What side of Tiktok would Lowell House be on?
JZZ: Oh, it would be definitely the musical TikTok. Literally it would have “We Don’t Talk About Bruno” nonstop… oh no, this is it. We would be on the Ratatouille Tiktok, when they made the whole Ratatouille musical from scratch.
If you could describe Lowell with a HUDS dish, which dish would it be?
BR: The tiramisu… Sweet, kind. Bougie. Always there for you when you need it most… Layered.
Be honest. Are the bells annoying?
JZZ: Sophomore year, I decided, “Do I want to ring on others or be rung at?” And I was like, I'd rather ring on others. But in all fairness, I've had people complain to me like, “Oh my God, you woke me up from my sleep!” And it's 1p.m. on a Sunday. What are you doing still asleep?
BR: [The bells] are really cute. I think they're a cool tradition. And I think they make me feel bougie as an individual in this world today, so that's all that matters.
What is the main thing you want first years who get Lowell to look forward to?
JZZ: I mean for two years in a row, we were the undisputed best house. So there is everything to look forward to.
BR: Great location. Literally amazing faculty deans and resident tutors. Gorgeous house. Perfect location. Lots of cute puppies.
Read more about the other Houses here!
