“Zionism is Racism, Settler Colonialism, White Supremacy, Apartheid.”
On April 29, the Crimson Editorial Board, of which I am an associate editor, published a Staff Editorial that embraced these claims, which were plastered onto the Palestinian Student Committee’s “Wall of Resistance” at the time. The Board “proudly” endorsed the associated Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions movement, while rendering the display a “colorful” and “spirited” emblem of “passion.” The article made no mention of the fact that BDS student activism has been tied to antisemitic exclusion and violence on college campuses.
Having missed the meeting where the Board shifted its stance on BDS, I’ve spent an embarrassing number of hours puzzling over the decision, attempting to make sense of the Board’s reasoning. Yet the more I read the Staff Editorial, the more muddled its logic seemed to become. The Board, seemingly seduced by the “colorful” Wall of Resistance, directs virtually no attention to any concrete or balanced exploration of the conflict, instead evading it by stating that we “can’t nuance away” Palestinians’ lived realities. And eventually, after having evaded all precision and nuance, it blindly accepts BDS’s flawed, factually misleading mission.
And now, BDS co-founder Omar Barghouti has authored a Crimson letter to the editor that repeats a host of deceptive anti-Zionist talking points, recycling references to what others have dubbed “Jewish supremacy” while highlighting reports that characterize the Israeli-Palestinian relationship as a racial dispute. These declarations aren’t just wildly distorted; they’re dangerous. They paint a reductive portrait of the Jewish state, demonizing the nation and delegitimizing its very existence. But they are also provocative, evoking emotion, and are cloaked with a blanket of resonant humanitarian claims. For unknowing onlookers with a taste for justice, that seems to be all that matters.
This slick dynamic, I’ve come to realize, captures the essence — and the dangerous “artistry” — of the broader BDS movement.
It is my intuition that Zionism is not what the Editorial Board — or most people backing an anti-Zionist agenda in the name of justice — believes they are rejecting, or likening to racism and cruelty. Instead, they are rejecting a false projection of Zionism — one that has been carefully constructed by movements like BDS, whose entire narrative is founded upon a hefty hijacking of Jewish identity and history.
BDS’s official website explicitly writes that Israel’s origins can be found within a “racist ideology” of European colonialism, which it then ties to the Zionist movement. But the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is not rooted in a racial struggle, nor in an ideology of superiority or hate. On the contrary, Zionism was born in 1896 as a movement of liberation, of freedom, and of resisting unfair power imbalances during a period in which Jews across Europe were persecuted — barred from government assemblies, attacked in the press, and excluded from business dealings, hotels, social circles, and clubs.
Early Zionist settlers in Palestine didn’t steal or conquer the land as they came in throughout the late 19th and early 20th century, as is the case with most European settler colonialism narratives; they bought the land. And in fact, early leaders of the Zionist movement, like Theodor Herzl, explicitly rejected the idea of displacing non-Jewish populations.
Nonetheless, as the Jewish population in the region grew in the years prior to 1947, Jewish people increasingly suffered violent attacks, killings, rapes, and mass lootings from neighboring non-Jewish groups.
After erasing this early history and redefining Zionism entirely, the BDS website then goes on to reduce Israel’s “violent establishment in 1948” to an act of “ethnic cleansing” against those “indigenous” to the region, designed to “uproot as many Palestinians as it can.” These words, too, reflect a complete erasure, perversion, and demonization. First of all, Jews were already indigenous to the region, as archaeological and biblical evidence has underscored.
Next, Israel’s declaration of independence came only after a 1947 United Nations two-state solution was met with fierce opposition from Arab leaders — and with the burning of Jewish homes, synagogues, and murders. Most guttingly, this narrative not only ignores but subverts the post-Holocaust environment by charging Jewish people, fresh out of the Holocaust, with a “premeditated” ethnic cleansing plot. It is my suspicion that this final move reflects an effort to counter and negate the one piece of Jewish history that cannot so readily be muted or transformed.
The particular form of anti-Zionist rhetoric fueled by the BDS movement isn’t just misleading — it’s also brazenly antisemitic, with its origins traceable to a KGB propaganda campaign that thrived under the leadership of KGB chairman Yuri Andropov. The campaign’s aim was to undermine the Israeli state amid its growth in the Cold War period, and igniting antisemitism was seen as a strategic means to that end. The operation’s leaders treated Hitler’s Mein Kampf as something of a bible, using it as a source of information about Zionism. In publications, the campaign circulated direct replicas of Nazi Germany caricatures that now attacked “Zionists” instead of “Jews.” The USSR also added new vilifying analogies into the mix — equating Zionism to Nazism itself, and construing Zionism as an inherently racist ideology. Today, the BDS movement has thrived upon these very tacts: At the BDS movement’s fringes, comparisons between Jews and Nazis are weaponized. And at the BDS movement’s heart, the denigrating conflation of Zionism and racism continues to pulsate loudly.
Today, the BDS movement’s leaders, like Barghouti, may outwardly oppose antisemitism. But misinformation was part and parcel of what made anti-Jewish hatred, and eventually genocide, a thinkable project in Nazi Germany. It’s what turned Soviet Jews into targets of persecution and hatred years later. Now, the BDS movement is being driven by strikingly similar notes of factual manipulation. One can only expect that the inherited offshoots of this rhetoric would continue to spur antisemitic violence today.
This is exactly what has taken shape amidst BDS’s expanding reach, which stretches outward onto today’s college campuses: One report explicitly attributed the increase in antisemitic incidents on campuses to the rise of the BDS movement. Anti-Zionist and pro-BDS student groups also produce outright exclusion, as legions of college students across the country are pledging not to affiliate with pro-Israel student organizations and are isolating individual Zionist students. Sometimes, these attacks more overtly transpose themselves onto Judaism itself. Only a few years ago at Stony Brook University, a student member of the school’s pro-BDS, anti-Zionist Students for Justice in Palestine chapter was quoted in the school paper as stating, “we want Zionism off this campus, so we also want Hillel off this campus.”
Jewish people are also systematically shut down by the BDS movement’s followers when they try to speak up: According to the Anti-Defamation League, a central goal of SJP, a leading source of BDS activism on college campuses, is to protest pro-Israel campus events by heckling speakers to the point of quietitude. As dialogue is stifled by anti-Zionist and pro-BDS students, vilifying slurs and monikers, new and old, also tend to make their way into the air — from referencing the trope of a “smelly Jew,” to chanting “Zionists are terrorists,” to spewing the words “f—cking Zionist.”
BDS’s strategy of ideological warfare is all the more frightening because of how well it works — after all, it has led some of the most decent, kind, and thoughtful people that I know at Harvard to become patrons and propagators of antisemitism.
The Board admits, still in line with past precedent, that BDS is a “blunt tool.” I believe that this tool is finer than we realize. It has been sharpened by societal forces, and historical precedents, in order to wage what is, at its core, not a fundamentally economic war of boycotts and sanctions — but a more sinister and violent ideological one. People like me — a “f-cking Zionist,” a “smelly Jew,” a modern-day “Elder of Zion” — are not simply “collateral damage” in this war. We are targets — directly wounded by signals and signs of rhetorical weaponry, and dismissed when we respond to what we know has historically been the writing on the wall.
Writing this has not been easy — not just because of the complicated history, to which I have personal ties. It has also been difficult because BDS is the embodiment of everything that I have known the Board to stand against — and, in light of the Board’s failure to recognize that, I can’t help but feel a strange mix of sadness, disappointment, and fear. Back in February 2020, we opined as a Board that casting either group as “the evil one” in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is a counterproductive approach, and we made an explicit call for nuance. Now, the Board has tacitly endorsed Israel’s demonization while maintaining that “we can’t nuance away” Palestinians’ lived realities. In my view, this is yet another testament to BDS’s chilling “artistry”; it is an embodiment of the fact that BDS’s messaging invokes an emotional reaction that bypasses thought at a visceral level. When nuance is present, it becomes harder to demonize one party — so BDS does all that it can to reject that complexity and thought.
This negation of nuance doesn’t just enable the mobilization of age-old antisemitic machinery. It also fuels discord and division, when what the mitigation and eventual resolution of this conflict most desperately need is unity, objectivity, and even-handed advocates calling for peace. Still, I have to believe that we all fundamentally want to pursue progress, productive dialogue, and peace — it’s just that some of us were seduced, by misinformation and “passion,” into thinking that BDS could get us there.
I don’t know what you see. Maybe it’s color; maybe it’s spirit. I see a violent history that has been reproduced in a camouflaged modern-day form.
Gemma J. Schneider ’23, a Crimson Associate Editorial editor, is a Government concentrator in Pforzheimer House.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Supreme Court overturned the constitutional right to abortion in a landmark ruling, abandoning the nearly 50-year-old precedent established in Roe v. Wade Friday.
Many Harvard-affiliated law and public health experts condemned the Court’s decision in Dobbs v. Jackson to vacate abortion protections, which they said will likely further damage the institution’s legitimacy in the eyes of Americans and endanger other constitutional rights upheld by the nation’s highest court.
The Court held in a 5-4 majority opinion, delivered by Justice Samuel A. Alito, that the Court’s 1973 decision in Roe was “egregiously wrong from the start,” and that the U.S. Constitution does not protect the right to an abortion — setting the stage for more than half of states to ban or significantly restrict abortion access.
“We hold that Roe and Casey must be overruled. The Constitution makes no reference to abortion, and no such right is implicitly protected by any constitutional provision,” Alito wrote. “It is time to heed the Constitution and return the issue of abortion to the people’s elected representatives.”
Laurence H. Tribe ’62, one of the nation’s most prominent constitutional scholars and a professor at Harvard Law School, said the Court’s Friday decision is “reactionary” and “unprincipled,” and damages the very concept of implicit constitutional rights.
“It is a devastating blow to the implied right to privacy,” he said. “And it’s a devastating blow to the idea that the Constitution was not frozen in the early 19th century.”
Tribe added that the Court has created an opening for incursions on reproductive and BGLTQ rights in its ruling. He noted that past decisions in Obergefell v. Hodges and Griswold v. Connecticut — the decisions which primarily protect same-sex marriage and access to contraception, respectively — also draw on the implicit rights to “autonomy, dignity, and privacy” that supported Roe.
To some, the Friday ruling came as no surprise. Harvard Kennedy School Professor Maya Sen ’00 said the personal ideologies of justices and the presidents who appointed them are often “powerful predictors of how they rule” on cases.
“As a case becomes more politically salient — a more important topic, more policy-relevant — that prediction actually gets stronger and stronger,” she said.
“I’ve always found that to be a very persuasive way of understanding the larger picture of what’s going on here. So when you think of Justice [Clarence] Thomas, he’s very conservative. That ideology actually really comes through in these two rulings,” Sen added, in reference to the Court’s Friday decision and its Thursday ruling that struck down a New York law limiting guns in public.
In the decision, Alito insisted Roe is a unique case as abortion affects a “potential life,” repeatedly stating that Dobbs will not impact other Court precedents based in the 14th Amendment’s implied right to privacy.
Stephen E. Sachs ’02, the Antonin Scalia Professor of Law at HLS, wrote in an email that he believes other precedents based in the right to privacy are “safe,” though he noted that the implicit right to privacy is a “real stretch” under current Supreme Court standards.
“There aren’t five Justices who would be willing to cause so much political controversy by overruling them,” Sachs wrote. “But I don’t believe a majority of Justices find the legal arguments for these cases persuasive on their own terms.”
Some legal scholars said they were skeptical of the majority opinion’s assurance that the rights protected by Obergefell and Griswold are “inherently different” than abortion rights, and would not come under fire.
Michele B. Goodwin, director of the Reproductive Justice Initiative at the University of California, Irvine’s School of Law, said Roe is “not unique,” and added that the Supreme Court “dismantled 80 years of jurisprudence” in Friday’s decision.
“This will not go down well in history,” said Goodwin, who is also a lecturer at Harvard Medical School.
“This is a decision that is in company with Plessy v. Ferguson, and the kinds of decisions that do not speak well to American rule of law and democracy,” added Goodwin, referencing the 1896 Supreme Court decision that infamously declared segregation constitutional.
Tribe noted that in a concurring opinion Friday, Thomas wrote that the Court should reconsider Obergefell and Griswold, as well as Lawrence v. Texas — in which the Court ruled that statutes criminalizing private, consensual sexual acts between same-sex individuals were unconstitutional.
“I think all of those invitations will be taken up with gusto by this court,” Tribe said.
Others called attention to the potential global reverberations of Friday’s decision. T.H. Chan School of Public Health professor Ana M. Langer, who helms the school’s Women and Health Initiative, said the overturning of Roe could encourage governments abroad to follow suit in curbing abortion rights.
“From a global perspective, we are very worried about the ramifications that this decision could have in other countries, and how it will embolden anti-choice groups in other places and decision-makers to adopt a more restrictive legal and policy framework,” she said.
Sachs, a member of the Federalist Society, wrote in an email that he believes the court should decide matters based on accurate legal interpretation, rather than popular sentiment.
“If the Fourteenth Amendment didn’t actually protect a right to abortion, and the decision to permit it or restrict it has been left up to elected legislatures, then the Court ought to say as much,” Sachs wrote.
In a 2018 tweet, Tribe praised Chief Justice John G. Roberts ’76 — who sided with the 6-3 majority upholding a Mississippi law that banned abortion after 15 weeks of pregnancy, but did not join the 5-4 majority overturning Roe.
“The John Roberts I’ve known since he was my student in constitutional law leans toward the right (Shelby County, Obergefell dissent) but searches for compromise (ACA) and is deeply committed to preserving the Court as a stabilizing nonpartisan force,” he wrote.
But on Friday, Tribe said the Dobbs decision demonstrates that the Court is “simply another political branch,” and damages Roberts’ legacy.
“It’s no longer the Roberts Court,” Tribe said in the Friday interview. “Its legacy is shattered and the institutional integrity of the Court is deeply undermined.”
—Staff writer Isabella B. Cho can be reached at isabella.cho@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @izbcho.
—Staff writer Brandon L. Kingdollar can be reached at brandon.kingdollar@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter at @newskingdollar.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
When Tessa I. Conrardy ’24 learned the U.S. Supreme Court overturned Roe v. Wade, she was not surprised — or even angry — but still drove from her home in Pittsburgh to the steps of the Supreme Court in Washington, where thousands gathered to protest the Court’s decision.
“After six years of political turmoil, and having my rights and the rights of my friends and loved ones questioned, I don’t have the capacity for anger anymore — even if I do have the capacity to get out and do the work that needs to be done to help fight,” Conrardy said.
The Supreme Court eliminated constitutional protections for abortion in a 5-4 opinion, overturning Roe v. Wade and bringing an end to nearly 50 years of legal precedent Friday.
In response, Harvard affiliates across the nation joined thousands who took to the streets to protest the decision, while some celebrated it. Most said they were not surprised, but still feared what it could mean for the future of civil liberties.
Ava K. Pallotta ’25, who attended a protest in New York, said her initial reaction to Friday’s decision was similar to how she felt after Politico published a leaked draft majority opinion in May showing the Supreme Court was set to overturn Roe v. Wade.
“My heart just sank knowing the decision was final,” Pallotta said. “It’s hard to advocate for doing things when so much is out of your control.”
“I want nothing more than to be the biggest advocate for forbearance and for respecting the Supreme Court and respecting these institutions that have been here for centuries before me,” Pallotta added. “But when it feels like the justices making those decisions are there because of political preferences, it’s just so hard to respect the legitimacy of this decision.”
Some affiliates went further, criticizing the nine-justice Court itself as an undemocratic institution that often ignores popular demands.
Benjamin B. Roberts ’23, who attended a Boston protest of the Supreme Court ruling, said he was “angry, but not surprised” that the Court would rule against “the general feelings of the people.”
“[The] Supreme Court’s never been a particularly democratic institution, and it’s more obvious these days than usual, but it’s not a surprise,” he said.
Abhi S. Patel ’25, who interns at the U.S. House of Representatives, said he was giving a tour when he heard about the news and felt compelled to join the crowd afterward.
The justices, he added, have disproportionate power over individuals’ rights.
“This is where history is truly being made,” Patel said. “It’s not within the walls or the chambers of the House or the Senate, but in a court where it’s nine justices who we haven’t directly elected, turning over rights that have been established for nearly five decades now.”
David M. Hogg ’23, who attended a protest in Boston, said people should “not only vote every year, but get more people voting and get powerful people caring” about abortion rights.
Pallotta said she believes it’s important for people to vote in elections, but added that it is “hard” for her to hear “career politician[s] who had decades to codify Roe” put the onus on voters for defending the right to abortion.
“It should have been on the leaders — someone like Joe Biden — to codify this decision,” she added.
Hogg also noted that voting the Democratic Party into power has not translated into nationwide legislation protecting abortion rights.
“They had a supermajority in 2009 and Democrats did absolutely nothing,” he added. “So it’s time for better Democrats.”
Hogg said Friday’s decision was the product of a long “chess game” that “institutions like Harvard have been at the center of,” referring to the power that the Federalist Society holds within the nation’s top legal circles.
Students at Harvard, the University of Chicago, and Yale University law schools founded the Federalist Society in 1982 for conservative and libertarian law students, legal professionals, and faculty. Six of the nine current Supreme Court justices are current or former members of the organization.
Hogg said pro-choice activists should fight against the influence of the Federalist Society, adding that his classmates should recognize the impact they can have, since Harvard students helped create the organization backing many Supreme Court justices.
“I think Harvard students have a responsibility with the power that we have to help build a better future for our country,” he said.
David J. Fichter ’73 attended a protest in downtown Boston with a poster that towered over the crowd depicting Supreme Court Chief Justice John G. Roberts ’76 with the words “Protect Women’s Liberty From Court Tyranny” written on his robe.
Fichter said it was important for him to protest the Supreme Court’s decision because it eliminated “a fundamental right.”
Within hours of the ruling, abortion clinics in some states began shuttering their doors.
Ava A. Swanson ’24, a co-president of the student group Harvard Right to Life, celebrated the cancellation of abortion appointments in those states, where the Supreme Court ruling immediately triggered bans.
“There’s women that had abortions scheduled for today and those lives of those children were saved,” Swanson said. “So I think that was just very exciting.”
Brianna S. Keefe-Oates, a Ph.D. candidate in Social and Behavioral Sciences who joined a protest in Portland, Maine, said abortion bans have short-term and long-term impacts on health and exacerbate social inequities for people of color and low-income individuals.
“Knowing that, in that moment, all of a sudden, there were people who had appointments for their abortions today [who] would no longer be able to get them was absolutely devastating,” she said.
— Staff writer Isabella B. Cho contributed reporting.
— Staff writer Miles J. Herszenhorn can be reached at miles.herszenhorn@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @MHerszenhorn.
—Staff writer Meimei Xu can be reached at meimei.xu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @MeimeiXu7.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
