News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
It’s been a tumultuous year for U.S. News & World Report’s annual school rankings. Earlier this semester, the U.S. News rankings made news when a scandal at Columbia caused the Ivy League institution to drop from 2nd to 18th on the rankings. Now, along with other highly prestigious law schools such as Stanford, Georgetown, Columbia, Berkeley, and Yale,  Harvard Law School has withdrawn from the U.S. News annual rankings.
As an Editorial Board that has expressed concern about higher education’s obsession with rankings in the past, we are glad to see that HLS shares similar concerns. We hope this news rings in a new era for higher education — one in which the pursuit of a high ranking does not supersede the imperative to provide a high-quality education to students.
Today, our culture’s emphasis on prestige has become so intense that the U.S. News rankings are a reliable predictor of the fates of graduating law students, from whether or not they will land a Supreme Court clerkship to their personal bargaining ability for salaries. Even the choice to attend a top-ranked law school now serves as a positive “signaling effect” on employers at large firms, regardless of the actual efficacy of the student’s education.
Prior to enrollment, rankings also create perverse incentives that may lead to the selective representation of data. The ability of applicants to make informed decisions suffers when administrators’ drive to portray their school as more accomplished in certain metrics than it actually is overpowers more accurate presentations.
Columbia’s controversy serves as a fresh warning. Beyond falsified data, misrepresented data lies just around the corner to fool students. Data surrounding levels of debt found amongst graduating students are often only half the story — countless university profiles often fail to account for debt relief programs, thus potentially skewing the applicant pool towards better-resourced students.
Rather than encouraging school selection, from the undergraduate to the professional degree level, based on what is best for individual students, our society at large has succumbed to chasing the mythical white whale of “the best university.”
Such a myth is perhaps one of the fundamental flaws of rankings: They perpetuate the stereotype of conformity to universal averages, or the idea that a particular set of priorities will, on average, matter to all people. As discussed by Harvard Education School professor Todd Rose, it’s a near impossibility for any one individual to conform to averages within all categories.
In the context of law school choice, it is essential to find a place that makes you happy — somewhere you will feel fulfilled and, accordingly, able to grow and learn. In our view, attempting to construct averaged metrics of these subjective goals creates an abstract and meaningless figure with limited probative value.
Still, we acknowledge that rankings can be beneficial when done well. Looking at centralized statistical information such as class sizes and student-to-faculty ratios, for instance, can encourage universities to develop smaller class sizes and lower student-to-faculty ratios that may translate into better educational experiences. Generally, centralized and standardized databases can help present students with critical information that unintelligible data and disorganized, subjective university websites fail to provide.
Still, universities should provide more user-friendly websites that present relevant information across categories (such as academics, student services, student happiness, socioeconomic mobility, and so on). Information accessibility ultimately benefits the university as well: When individuals are presented with more information, they are more able to prioritize their personal preferences rather than the factors emphasized by rankings. Applicants, for instance, may prefer smaller class sizes but not an urban campus; these are subtle comparisons that are more likely to occur when students can turn to university websites directly for targeted information as opposed to relying on unstandardized rankings that present themselves as universal.
In a future where ranking sites and university websites coexist to provide students with essential information, both should be well-organized, easily accessible, and standardized so as to not create confusing differentials. Following that same vein, both organizations like U.S. News and universities should work to identify the most useful data they can provide and edit their sites accordingly to maximize utility. In the possible scenario that universities will not take initiative to reorganize their display of information, consumer regulatory agencies should mandate information transparency — higher education, after all, is a booming industry where the rights of consumers (students) should be protected, especially given the student debt crisis.
Ultimately, the responsibility falls on universities to be more transparent and to provide clear, useful metrics in readily accessible ways. This would maximize the benefits — access to centralized information, ability to compare competing schools, and awareness of oft-overlooked institutions — while avoiding the pervasive harms, such as lost autonomy in the application process, ill-informed decisions from incomplete data, and falling into the trap of prestige over personal satisfaction and success.
In a world driven by numbers, we should strive to limit the influence of abstract rankings and begin to prioritize our own happiness. Following in the footsteps of HLS, we must break ranks.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
I came into Harvard thinking I’d concentrate in English. I’m now getting a degree in Economics and working at a hedge fund next summer. My trajectory seems to be somewhat common at Harvard, so I wanted to look at why the humanities have declined here and beyond.
There are a million articles on the death of the humanities with a million different opinions as to why the decline is occurring, leaving the scholarship surrounding the issue fairly disjointed and multi-layered. So, I decided to write five theses instead of one overarching argument, Martin Luther style.
Between 1966 and 2010, there was a 50 percent decline of humanities degrees, but the bulk of that decline occurred between 1970 and the mid-1980s.
The decline of the humanities at Harvard over that same time period was, thankfully, less pronounced. A 2013 Harvard Report note showed that humanities concentrations declined from 1970 to 1990, although at a much slower rate.
Notably, the percentage of humanities degrees at Harvard actually grew slightly between 1970 and 1990 if you classify History as a social science. In that case, the humanities peaked at around 30 percent in 1960, declining to a little less than 20 percent today, meaning that, at Harvard, History – as compared to the humanities overall – has faced an especially large enrollment drop over the last 40 years.
The humanities were surprisingly stable between the mid-1980s and the Great Recession. As a result, many commentators asserted around 2010 that the crisis of the humanities was overhyped.
Those takes turned out to be premature since the humanities continued to decline in the weak economic environment of the 2010s, which is why analysts are now declaring a second crisis of the humanities.
Again, at Harvard, this decline is much less pronounced but still present.
In fact, over the past decade, social science concentrations have faced a more pronounced decline than the humanities at Harvard. This may be because the History concentration, which faced a nearly 50 percent drop from 2011 to 2020, is included in the social science category in the graph above. Conversely, Applied Math, Statistics, and Computer Science have seen the biggest growth over the last ten years, perhaps reflecting the shift of would-be Economics concentrators to more quantitative degrees.
The decline of the humanities is worrisome, but there are two big silver linings.
First, if people are choosing humanities out of a fear of not getting a good job, that’s not great. But, the vast majority of the pre-2010 decline in humanities enrollment was due to women moving out of the humanities, which may reflect more accepting workplace cultures, especially among STEM occupations.
And, although humanities majors are declining as a share of overall degrees, the absolute number of humanities degree in the country is up since the 1970s because more Americans are attending college:
Another way of thinking about this is that humanities majors as a share of the overall population is relatively stable.
Former Harvard President Drew G. Faust said in 2014, “[The decline in humanities] reflects, I believe, fundamentally the pressure that students are feeling and being subject to about finding jobs and making sure their financial investment in education is going to pay off.”
The research to date seems to agree with Faust. Expected salaries are an important determinant of major choice, and business and social science majors do, on average, earn more than their humanities counterparts. This is probably why there was such a sharp decline in humanities majors after the 2008 recession.
There’s not great data on why Harvard students choose some concentrations over others, but Harvard students who do concentrate in the humanities are less likely than other students to cite ‘usefulness for a career’ or ‘parental pressure’ as a factor in their concentration choice.
There’s one caveat, though. Students are often misinformed about how much each major makes (so you may want to check the numbers on yours).
Sometimes people overstate how much salary considerations determine major choice.
There are a ton of things that researchers have found play an important part in students’ major choice besides expected earnings: course enjoyment, parents’ approval, and especially marriage prospects.
A study of Northwestern sophomores, for example, found that course enjoyment and parental approval were more important than salary outcomes in students’ major choice.
Given that Harvard English graduates report making a median of $100,000 ten years after graduation, I’d expect that these non-wage factors are especially important at elite universities like Northwestern and Harvard. This high salary may also be one reason why the decline of the humanities is much less pronounced at our school.
There is no singular crisis in the humanities. There are multiple: One in the 1970s and one now; one at elite schools and a more severe decline nationally. There are many overlapping reasons for this decline, reflecting both economic conditions and changing preferences of undergraduates.
It is only by holding all of these perspectives at once that we can understand why the humanities are declining and ever hope to reverse this trend.
Aden Barton ’24, an Editorial editor, is an Economics concentrator in Eliot House. His column “Harvard in Numbers” appears on alternate Mondays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
If you’ve ever stepped foot on Harvard’s campus, you’ve seen the Wadsworth gate, though you may not have realized it. Nestled between the urban bustle of Harvard Square and the red brick of the Yard, I walk past it nearly every day, but rarely do I stop to ponder its history. The gate is also called the Class of 1857 Gate after the class that sponsored it — a class whose joyful graduation barely preceded the advent of the Civil War.
When James Starr, a member of the eponymous class of 1857, entered Harvard in 1853 at the age of 16, the Wadsworth gate did not yet exist, but other familiar Harvard buildings did. Starr and I have both spent time in the Yard’s Holworthy dormitory. In a memoir, Starr reflects fondly upon his time at Harvard, reporting that Holworthy was “the most comfortable place I ever lived in.” My friends might leave mixed reviews about Holworthy, but his sentiment is appreciated. Upon leaving the school, he described his time there as “the four most pleasant and profitable years of my life.”
Starr spent his years at Harvard receiving a general education which consisted of subjects such as philosophy, physics, and Latin along with the 67 other men in his class. Here again, I found myself connecting with Starr as I read his memoir. I have yet to take a physics course, but have certainly studied philosophy and Latin while at Harvard. Outside of class, students could be found practicing their oratorical skills by delivering speeches at the Hasty Pudding Club or joining various niche societies, ranging from the Natural History Society to the “Med. Fac.” Society, notorious for its pranks.
The 1857 Commencement featured sentimental speeches and fond memories. One student reflected upon his friendship with his classmates, expressing that “kindest acknowledgment and gratitude are due while towards no one in the class have I any hostile feelings.” Another remarked that “this college life” consisted of “the happiest day this side of the grave.”
James J. Storrow, Class of 1857, whose son is the namesake of Storrow Drive, said, “Do not imagine that we live alone. Real friends and real companions we find in the commonwealth of scholars.”
While the festivities of the day were a time to reminisce on memories with close friends, the class poem introduced a sense of foreboding for the future: “How soon we too at rest may lie / We’re standing always on the brink / of the abyss – Eternity!”
The Class Ode added to the gravity: “the world with its hazards, its turmoil, and strife/ Calls us now from these scenes of repose/ And sterner and stormier phases of life.”
Despite these omens, the graduates celebrated that evening. One account describes how graduates drank down “a bowl of punch with crackers and cheese as accompaniments, both of which were consumed with gusto until the setting sun.” Another account describes the “jovial and natural scene” on Commencement day, when “songs were sung and plenty of noise of course was made.”
But just four years after these celebrations, the country broke into civil war. Starr enlisted to fight on the Union side.
Many others from Starr’s class at Harvard also enlisted. Some served as medical personnel for both the Union and the Confederacy. In some instances, classmates fought alongside each other. In Starr’s case, he fought directly against an “old college friend.”
In his very first military engagement, Starr fired upon the retreating cavalry of William H. F. “Roony” Lee, son of Robert E. Lee. Soon after, Starr learned that one of his classmates had been killed in action. He continued serving until 1864, rising to the rank of Lieutenant Colonel.
Various members of the class of 1857, including George Whitemore, fought in the Battle of Antietam, known as the bloodiest one-day battle in American military history. Whitemore’s rifle was stolen from him just before the conflict, so he ran to the front of the ranks and took a gun off a fallen soldier, fighting for the Union until he was shot and killed. His body is buried in the Mount Auburn cemetery, less than two miles from Harvard.
“Those great and bloody fields,” as a friend who wrote to the family of a deceased classmate called them, saw the loss of thousands upon thousands of lives. Truly, “[T]he fate of the nation trembled in the balance” and the Union’s victory “changed the history of the country,” he wrote.
In 1882, the Class of 1857, albeit with diminished numbers, gathered together for a 25-year reunion. In a report created for the event, an alumnus wrote: “at this turning point in our history, let us stand nearer to each other as classmates, with new hopes and new resolutions for the future.”
“This is a brotherhood closer than kin,” he added.
Starr died of typhoid-pneumonia the year before the reunion. His biography notes that “he never fully recovered from the severe strain on his constitution made by the war,” but that even years down the line, “his best affections went out to Alma Mater and the men of his class.”
A few years later in 1889, Harvard started building gates around the Yard. The Class of 1857 was the first class to raise funds for a gate, which was finished in 1901.
Like other gates encircling Harvard Yard, the 1857 Gate was designed by the architectural firm McKim, Mead, & White, the same firm that designed New York City’s Pennsylvania Station and the Boston Public Library. Blair Kamin, editor of the book “Gates of Harvard Yard,” said in a 2016 interview that the gates “weren’t just symbols of exclusion and elitism” but also served as “symbols of belonging.” He added, “They were symbols of being part of something greater than oneself.”
In 1910, a Latin inscription was added: “Felices ter et amplius quos inrupta tenet copula nec malis divulsus querimoniis suprema citius solvet amor die.” In translation: “Thrice happy and more are they whom an unbroken band unites, and whom no sundering of love by wretched quarrels shall separate before life’s dying day.”
Although Harvard remains notoriously exclusive, it has opened its gates to a far more diverse group of people than those present in 1857; and despite the similarities I’ve noted, the activities we participate in, the classes we take, and even the food we eat is vastly different.
However, more than a century later, the message of the gate remains universal. In Kamin’s words, this inscription is a “touching memorial to the unbroken bonds of friendship that this class had.” But it’s an oversimplification to leave it at just that. The wounds of the Civil War run deep; we cannot ignore the hundreds of thousands of casualties, and the millions more who suffered under the yoke of slavery, which several members of the Class of 1857 who enlisted with the Confederacy fought to preserve. These atrocities cannot be glossed over with a sentiment of goodwill and memories of college friendship. But the words on the gate are an aspiration towards healing, unity, and growth together.
Perhaps the idea of an unbroken band uniting friendships is a platonic ideal, unreachable in reality, but I believe it’s an ideal ever worth striving towards.
Sections
As a Ph.D. candidate at Harvard studying abroad in Pisa, Mary L. DiSalvo, the language Support Manager and IT Liaison for the Language Center, struggled to find Italian language learning partners. She ended up having to “spam the Ph.D. list” trying to find a language exchange buddy interested in both practicing English with her and helping her improve her Italian. While she did eventually find language exchange partners, it was more difficult than expected and prompted her to consider ways to make the search easier for others.
Upon her return to Harvard, she started the Language Exchange Program within the Language Center to allow Harvard affiliates to find partners more easily than she did. The center pairs Harvard affiliates that speak their partner’s target language, aiming to provide Harvard affiliates with “the possibility of practicing informal conversation with a partner who speaks their target language.” As a recipient of the 2022 Culture Lab Innovation Fund, the exchange has $12,000 of extra funding to expand its reach.
DiSalvo says the Language Exchange program is meant to supplement classroom-based language learning, serving as a “bridge” to introduce students to “new possibilities” outside the classroom.
DiSalvo highlights the program’s wide array of available languages as a strength that differentiates it from other language practice programs on campus: “Where are you going to find a Romanian [language] table?”
She also believes that the program is uniquely set up to accelerate language learning because of its flexibility. Participants are able to coordinate with their language partner to fit with their schedule. DiSalvo tries to streamline the process as much as possible — no feedback forms, no training, no oversight, just the language exchange that participants set up themselves.  She says this keeps the program “autonomous” and prevents it from feeling like homework.
A decentralized process like this could be a double-edged sword — while it does reduce stress on the users, it could also lead to limited oversight on the program’s efficacy and user experience. When asked if the program has other forms of oversight, DiSalvo says, “There’s certainly the future possibility of making some things much more guided ... I don’t think we’re there quite yet, although that’s certainly something that could be on the horizon.”
This program seeks to remedy what DiSalvo sees as a broader problem: that students often underestimate the value of learning a new language. She says many undergraduates try to avoid taking language classes by testing out of the requirement; when students “just want to get that degree and get out into the workforce” without taking advantage of Harvard’s language classes, she thinks they are squandering a rare opportunity.
Aside from the intrinsic value of learning a new language, DiSalvo says that even a career-oriented student could benefit from the program: “Employers want people who speak different languages,” she says, flagging Spanish and Chinese as examples of languages that are a “huge boon to your CV.”
Beyond facilitating language learning, DiSalvo also aims for the program to build community. DiSalvo prioritized inclusivity when setting up the language exchange, incorporating undergraduate and graduate school students, as well as faculty, alumni, staff, and retired staff.
A greater user base not only brings together people from different stages of life, but also expands the number of potential matches. There are currently around 800 active users and 367 matches within the program, but DiSalvo wants to expand usership to cover less commonly spoken languages.
“It’s a numbers game,” she says. “We really need to get a broad user base in order to make the program successful.”
However, the program is still limited toHarvard affiliates. “I really want to make it a Harvard-only program,” DiSalvo says. “I think we would lose the cultivation of community that I really want to push with this program.” She says that excluding non-Harvard affiliates does not limit accessibility, since the public is able to use publicly available online alternatives.
DiSalvo plans to dedicate extra funds from the 2022 Culture Lab Innovation Fund to expanding usership: “This is definitely the year to get the word out,” DiSalvo says. She also aims to strengthen its existing community so that the program is “not just a DIY virtual experience.” She plans on introducing meetups for current participants.
For busy Harvard students, finding the time to learn a language can be particularly challenging, especially in an environment where studying languages instead of taking other classes can feel risky for career prospects. But perhaps, as the program expands, Harvard students will increasingly find time to incorporate low-commitment language learning into their everyday lives.
Sections
Journalism hooked me not with the first headline that was by me, but with the one that was about me. An all-caps title splashed on my high school paper’s backpage became the unwritten lede for every story I would write after.
They published an editorial condemning the sexual harassment of freshman girls. I had been one of those freshman girls. I loved the editors-in-chief for what they had done, but I didn’t understand at the time just what they themselves had to undergo to make it happen for me. In the weeks following its publication, our administrators swiftly censored our private school’s paper, which was not covered by any of the free press protections touted to me at the National Scholastic Press Association conference.
Our advisers always told us to say, lest we pissed off those restraining us, that the paper was brought under prior review instead of prior restraint. The latter, we were told, hadn’t happened to date, though once the whole paper was read cover to cover by our principal he might eventually find something worth restraining.
Four years later, as the editor-in-chief of that newspaper, I held pieces in my hands that I knew could rearrange my school, too. We once had to bring an article to a writer’s adviser. I still remember her telling us that kids shouldn’t be expected to solve adult problems, so she would handle the rest with our journalism advisers. It was the first time anyone had acknowledged we were doing the work of grown-ups, that we could change our peers’ lives. Editing, arbitrating, and publishing meant playing God while still a child.
I wrote a piece about student backlash against closed water fountains that got me called into the principal’s office, a point of pride even though I hadn’t technically been censored. That meeting became the underpinning for too many college supplementals. In 150 words, my Harvard application’s extracurricular essay reduced the story to its most buzzword-y elements: institution challenger, ball-busting, act of service, champion the provocative. When I applied, I really did believe that bringing the truth to light was always the right thing to do on behalf of everyone, regardless of what they thought.
The year I became editor-in-chief, we had a new Upper School Head and re-negotiated the terms of our censorship. We had “freed” the paper, we were victorious, and I felt triumphant. But I eventually felt like there was something the paper lost once we couldn’t all struggle under suppression together, that the censorship had been the community. Stories from past editors about the glory of being censored made it feel like a rite of passage, connecting freshmen to seniors in chosen victimhood and performed vigilantism. We could no longer run cheeky articles in our April 1 joke issue whose only text was [REDACTED], a bigger loss than a few cut quotes.
Determined to be censored again, I decided to reflect on the opinion piece that triggered the censorship of my paper in freshman year, in the form of an opinion piece that got censored my senior year. It felt urgent to unarchive the piece that had defined my four years of high school.
A writer — who had once boldly asked us to run a black box reading “CENSORED” in the paper when we couldn’t publish his column — told me I shouldn’t write the story. “I hate to say this,” he said, “but I think you’ll find people aren’t as supportive anymore. Even the girls are over it.” We were about to graduate, and I knew publishing the piece would disrupt the ceremony of leaving together. I had pretended to be doing something noble by slating the story for our second-to-last issue, like that extra month would give the disruption time to settle before we all pomped and circumstanced.
Publishing would mean unleashing something sinister that would then make waves but ultimately not change anything. It would ripple; people would reel; they would move on. I didn’t mind ripples or reels, but I minded other people not remembering what had happened, so horribly, to me.
So I wrote the piece, launching a period of meetings with my journalism advisers and the Dean of Student Life, the only administrator I had ever liked. During all of this — missing class, crying to adults, cutting out every detail I had liked about the piece — I left my co-EICs essentially in the dark, though the fall would be theirs too. I was told the story could follow me to college. No one, the dean cooed, wanted to ruin Harvard for me.
I didn’t tell my parents that I was doing any of it. I didn’t tell my parents until I got in the car with my mom and opened up my phone to an email from my journalism adviser.
“After a final meeting, we’ve come to the conclusion that we can’t run the piece as is. This is not about restraint, it’s about your message needing everything we’ve been forced to cut and the cut version, which is closer to printable, not actually doing the job anymore. This is, of course, not a thing we’re doing lightly but that is the necessary consequence of protecting all those involved.”
I started weeping, confessing. Don’t freak out Mom I know I should’ve told you but please turn the car around I need to go back to school right now. My journalism adviser sat with me in the orange-couched library for an hour so I could cry. My mom waited on the curb.
I decided that the ultimate evil wasn’t that the piece didn’t run but that anyone had ever let me believe that it would.
I’ve never decided whether the administrators and advisers were truly trying to protect me or only intimidating me out of speaking. I know, at least, that I wouldn’t have been the story’s only victim had it run. I was leaving, after all, while my journalism advisers would have had to stay back and face the consequences. I felt guilty for all I had asked them to do. At some level, I was glad that the truth would not, in fact, prevail. I did not want to be responsible for the reality of bringing the story to light; I still got the honor of trying to bring it there.
After graduation, I sent a copy of the piece to the new child in charge of the paper and asked him to print and tape it up in our Publication Office, damning its audience to forever be fellow EICs. During my first week of college, he sent me a picture of the piece hanging on the wall, next to my prom photo with my co-EICs. “Sorry it took a while.”
Sections
Smitha Haneef’s passion for Harvard University Dining Services’ food sizzles even through the phone as she describes a recent dining hall meal. “It was a beautiful chicken entree, local mussels that the chef cooked,” says Haneef, HUDS’ managing director. “I believe even some mashed potatoes and sweet potatoes and wild blueberry crumble with blueberries from Maine.”
What comes next, however, is a different kind of endorsement: “It had good protein, it had good macro and micronutrients, and solved for multiple goals at the same time,” she says, this time more practical pediatrician than flowery food critic. Haneef serves as co-chair of the Harvard Food Systems Initiative, a program launched this fall but which has roots stretching decades into Harvard’s past.
Walter C. Willett, a professor at the Harvard School of Public Health and Harvard Medical School who co-chairs HFSI with Haneef, remembers the food he ate as a graduate student in the 1970s less than fondly. “The food was so bad, I would hardly eat much of any of it,” he says with a chuckle. “It just wasn’t healthy.”
Willett has devoted much of his career to nutrition research. After over 40 years spent studying the connections between diet and disease, HFSI is the latest step in Willett’s long quest to “institutionalize and formalize a little bit so that everybody who came through Harvard dining would have information available about health wellness.”
Haneef comes to HFSI with a background very different from Willett’s — she previously worked in five-star hotels, catering, and restaurants — yet her vision for HFSI aligns with his. After speaking with faculty, staff, and students upon her arrival at Harvard, Haneef was inspired to make an "epicenter for food.”
The HFSI curriculum combines a series of faculty-led seminars with experiential learning to accomplish an ambitious goal: According to its website, the program aims “to inspire elevated thinking and change to shape future food systems leaders for a more sustainable future.”
“It certainly isn’t a traditional curriculum, because it’s a dynamic, experiential one,” says Jessie Smit, an HSPH student in the Master of Public Health program and a researcher with HFSI. She praises the seminars’ inclusion of content on both sustainability and nutrition as evidence that HFSI is “not only spreading awareness of what sustainable eating looks like, but it’s practical knowledge that can be really applied in people’s everyday decision-making around food.”
Events so far have included culinary demonstrations like oyster-shucking and pasta-making in addition to seminars with Harvard professors and special guests. Haneef and Smit emphasize that while reception by the audience is difficult to gauge through virtual formats like webinars, the attendees they could see were engaged and enthusiastic.
Willett is less impressed with attendance. “Compared as a fraction of the people who come through Harvard, it’s a small percentage. That’s why we really want to take advantage of the fact that all students and lots of other people come through food service every day,” he says.
The low participation HFSI is seeing could be the result of the inconspicuous nature of menu changes. Willett calls Harvard’s sodium-cutting efforts “huge reductions that were invisible to everybody,” and acknowledges that the invisibility is precisely the point. “There’ve been a lot of improvements,” he says of the decades he has worked on these issues, “many of which people don’t even notice.”
It is also possible that people are justifiably wary of any prescriptive “healthy” eating habit, given the harmful narratives around eating and body image that have pervaded social media feeds and young psyches. Yet, Haneef described HFSI’s definition of personal health as inclusive. “My hope is, what’s the right balance that menus are written where every student is able to find a good choice and selection of menus that allow them to be their healthy best,” she says.
HFSI’s scope also extends beyond personal health and includes a focus on environmental impact, making it especially relevant for an increasingly climate-conscious student body. “Personal health and environmental health are very much aligned,” Smit says. “Principles of plant-forward eating are very positive for our health and very positive for the environment.”
Previous efforts to promote healthy habits in Harvard’s dining halls have made notable impacts. Willett points to a survey from several years ago that found the share of students choosing whole-grain rice over white rice increased during their time at Harvard. While it is easy for such numbers to seem insignificant, Willett considers it a step in the right direction.
As the HFSI team works to increase awareness about the food and its impact, every step counts. “I think just recognizing that the things that you’re choosing to eat are impactful, to some degree, is important,” Smit says. “It’s a responsible citizen-of-the-world awareness to have.”
Sections
It was a Thursday at 14 Plympton St. in 1978. Thirty editors of The Harvard Crimson gathered to take a vote.
On the docket? Whether to allow Playboy Magazine to run an ad in the newspaper soliciting Harvard students to pose for the magazine’s “Women of the Ivy League” special issue.
A majority agreed to turn down the ad on the grounds that it was sexist, but what they didn’t know was that it would ignite a decades-long feud between The Crimson and Playboy Magazine.
Playboy, a men’s entertainment and lifestyle magazine, was known for its frequent centerfolds featuring nude models. In September 1979, Playboy published its inaugural “Women of the Ivy League” special edition, which featured Ivy League students on the cover and in an 11-page spread. The issue, which returned in 1986 and 1995, was inspired by previous Playboy special editions featuring students from Big Ten and Pacific Ten universities.
Months before the release of the 1979 “Women of the Ivy League” issue, David Chan, a photographer who worked on Playboy’s Big Ten and Pacific Ten special edition issues, embarked on a tour of Ivy League campuses to recruit student models. His first destination? 14 Plympton Street. “Harvard was his first school; the Crimson, his first stop,” the Boston Globe wrote in a Dec. 5, 1978 article.
Chan arrived in Cambridge on Nov. 29, 1978, and offered The Crimson $181 for a proposed advertisement that read: “Playboy is scanning the Ivy League for a cross section of women for the upcoming 1979 September issue.” The Crimson initially agreed to run the ad.
Before it was printed, however, a group of Crimson editors voted to reverse that decision — but not unanimously. At first, then-Crimson President Francis J. Connolly ’79 called Chan on the phone and told him that the ad “was simply too offensive to appear in the pages of The Crimson,” according to the Boston Globe.
But two days later, on Dec. 2, Connolly and then-Crimson Business Manager Peter Tufano ’79 published a nearly 1,600-word dissent, arguing that the majority’s decision was “the type of thinking that could easily be translated into a means of censoring unpopular beliefs, without having to face the rigorous test of proving a specific, correctable injustice.”
Crimson editors who voted in the majority to reject the advertisement responded a few days later in a Dec. 5 editorial.
“The Crimson decided not to run the ad because through the ad the paper would be actively helping Playboy in its exploitation of women,” the editorial explained.
“Far from being a radical departure from earlier Crimson ad policies, this recent action is simply another example of our refusal to accept ads that we believe contribute specifically to oppression of a group or class of people,” those who voted against the ad added. “We now hold that the problem of sexism in America and elsewhere merits a scrutiny of our ad policy similar to that given — for example — racism in South Africa.”
For days, The Crimson’s editorial pages were dominated by op-eds and letters to the editor about the decision to reject the Playboy advertisement. The Crimson published at least nine opinion pieces on the subject by both Crimson editors and non-Harvard affiliates.
Jeffrey R. Toobin ’82, a freshman at the time, penned a dissenting opinion titled “Run the Ad,” in which he called the decision to reject the advertisement “disturbingly paternalistic.”
“The refusal to publish was a form of censorship that ought not to be tolerated in a community of intelligent individuals,” Toobin wrote. “It would surprise us if our readers were not more insulted by The Crimson’s apparent lack of confidence in their ability to make intelligent decisions than by the content of the Playboy advertisement itself.”
As The Crimson debated the decision to reject the ad in its editorial pages, Chan took his business — and his burgeoning feud with Harvard’s student newspaper — elsewhere. On Dec. 5, 1978, the Boston Globe ran Chan’s Playboy advertisement and also printed a news article with the headline: “Harvard Crimson says Playboy is in wrong league.”
Chan told the Globe he was surprised that The Crimson chose to reject his advertisement. “I couldn’t believe it. I got censored. I felt very sad about that,” Chan said. “I thought people went to university for higher learning. I’ve been to about 25 schools in the past two years and not one of them has censored my ad.”
Playboy quickly realized that the controversy generated by The Crimson rejecting its advertisement would prove useful for generating publicity as it searched for models on other Ivy League campuses. In February 1979, nearly three months after The Crimson rejected the ad, national publications like the New York Times and Time Magazine were still writing about Playboy’s alleged censorship at Harvard.
Susan D. Chira ’80, who succeeded Connolly as president of The Crimson in 1979, says their decision to reject the advertisement was “such great copy” for Playboy and their publicity campaign.
“There was a form of sexism in the way that it was portrayed,” Chira says. “It’s like, ‘Those uptight Ivy League women at Harvard want to prevent women at Harvard who might like to pose for Playboy from doing so.’ So the tone was very mocking.”
Chira says the publications were able to craft an even better article about the decision to reject the Playboy advertisement once she took over the newspaper. “It was more delicious because a woman was running it,” Chira says. “Might they have mocked The Harvard Crimson for not taking the ad? Hard to say, but the fact that I was a woman made it just perfect in terms of a story.”
“There was a brief boomlet of little nasty stories, which we shrugged off and went on with our lives,” Chira adds.
Eight years later, however, Playboy returned to 14 Plympton St. for its second “Women of the Ivy League” issue, once again asking The Crimson to publish a call for student models. Just like in 1978, The Crimson voted against running the advertisement, again drawing the attention of the New York Times.
“In Ivy League, Only Harvard Bars Pinup Ad” read a headline in the New York Times on March 9, 1986. “The Crimson stood alone, however, as the ad ran in The Boston Herald, The Boston Globe, The Boston Phoenix and in The Harvard Independent, a weekly campus publication,” the article reported.
Then-Crimson President Joseph F. Kahn ’87 told the New York Times — which misprinted the middle initial of its future executive editor in the article — that “after three hours of debate, we decided to reject the ad on the grounds that Playboy and the advertisement degrade women, and we at The Crimson did not want to aid the degradation by printing the ad.”
Once more, the decision sparked internal debate.
Jeffrey A. Zucker ’86, who had served as Crimson President the previous year in 1985, penned an opinion piece criticizing the newspaper’s decision to reject the ad. “By not running the ad, the majority of The Crimson has attempted to determine what is socially acceptable not only for the entire Crimson, but for all of Harvard’s 6000 students,” Zucker wrote. “It is wrong for any group to decide what is socially acceptable, and we resent the majority’s decision to define social acceptability by suppressing, rather than encouraging open expression.”
But Lisa Cole, who served as publicity director for Playboy, was not as troubled by The Crimson’s decision, recognizing that the magazine stood to gain from the media coverage about the ad’s rejection.
“We did in fact anticipate The Crimson’s reaction and knew that it would give us a good deal of publicity,” Cole told the New York Times in 1986. “By refusing our ad, they did us a great favor.”
Sections
Each space at Harvard has distinct vibes based on the people who inhabit it. Home to humanities concentrators, the Barker Center embodies the melodrama of a poorly rested English concentrator. The Smith Campus Center, the towering, glass-and-cement meeting ground of Harvard tourists and Harvard students alike, has a special eclectic energy. The Malkin Athletic Center attempts to bring athletics into what looks like a 20th century apartment building.
Behind the scenes, someone is actively working to curate each space’s unique energy. We decided to speculate about who’s on aux, and how their playlists define the personality of each place.
Barker Center Cafe
Sad girl, indie, acoustic guitar. If you wanted to sum up the Barker Center Cafe in three descriptors, these would perfectly capture the vibe.
And who is the mystery DJ behind these moody tunes? Some say they’ve seen her perusing the depths of WHRB’s vintage record shelves. Others find her in the mornings, catching up on some Sunday thrift shopping.
By day, she broods through the streets, decked head-to-toe in Urban Outfitters, her oversized beanie clinging to her freshly tie-dyed locks. She’s got a triple shot iced americano in one hand and a full sized original iPod in the other.
She knows every lyric of Taylor Swift’s “from the vault” series all too well…
She had been going through a tough breakup all semester, and who better to soothe her aching heart than the reigning queens of the not-like-other-girls.
She has the volume on real low, so the music can be interspersed with the buzzing of the Barker’s espresso machines — after all, Stevie Nicks is to the alt girl as coffee is to the heartbroken Harvard hottie.
As we sit in Barker sipping cappuccinos, Phoebe Bridgers plays softly throughout the cafe, and rain falls outside.
Smith Campus Center 
The person behind the playlists at the Smith Campus Center wants you to know that they recently finished their tenth trip to Disney World — and yes, they are already gearing up to go again for Mickey’s Very Merry Christmas Party.
It doesn’t matter how many years have passed since their middle school glory days — they will continue to listen to KIDZ BOP unironically and their favorite band will forever be Glee.
A bit cringe at times, but who can blame them? They spent their entire adolescence fighting against mandatory classical piano lessons by sneaking in pop song covers — and they are not afraid to show it. We are currently completing a pset to a piano cover of TikTok’s Corn Song.
Smith’s “DJ” knows that they were really born for the limelight. Music plays loudly enough to drown out any intrusive thoughts — so there’s no escaping the instrumental distillation of childhood joy.
Malkin Athletic Center
The mastermind on aux at the MAC is clearly not working out. Or maybe they’re perpetually stuck cycling on a stationary bike as tears stream down their face and they try to get over a recent break-up.
Who’s actually trying to deadlift to “Believer” by Imagine Dragons? The DJ seems one bad day from playing “World’s Smallest Violin” by AJR on a 10 hour loop.
The playlist is kind of slow and oddly emotional. Each occasional upbeat pop song leaves us questioning the emotional stability of the MAC’s music maker.
This playlist-curator lives in their own world. They walk through busy spaces,  navigating dense crowds, but don’t ever really engage with their surroundings. They struggle with eye contact, sometimes unsure that they’ll ever feel truly understood again — at least not the way their ex understood them.
But the person on aux must know that most people walking into the MAC are putting in earbuds anyway, drowning out whatever the playlist maker has to say — just like their ex did…
Sections
You’ve reached the end of summer; the excitement of getting into Harvard has faded into a fear of not finding friends. Though this process is difficult for many, a select group of students have it especially hard: the fifth-gen high-income community. If you’re an FGHI student, we have the perfect guide for you: six steps for hiding your wealth and connecting with the commoners.
Step 1: Change your overbearing, ostentatious social media presence. If your Instagram feed is flooded with pictures of vacations in the Maldives and ski trips in Switzerland, quickly archive those posts before freshman fall. The not-so-subtle “I was just accepted to college and gifted an excessive amount of crimson-colored candy and college gear” posts must also go. Follow this hard-and-fast rule for determining which posts to preserve: Bury any evidence that the IRS could use against your parents when investigating them for tax evasion.
Step 2: You love your wardrobe — a thoughtfully curated, sizable collection of expensive yet edgy items. Hiding the crazy cost of your closet is made easy with one simple response: “Where’d I get this outfit? I thrifted it in my hometown. It was a great find!” Use it in excess; there are no repercussions — it’s bullet-proof.
Step 3: Commoners know that the students who have their laundry done by Harvard Student Agencies are rich. Don’t argue that the 30 minutes saved is a necessary tradeoff, a reclamation of valuable time — if you think an additional 30 minutes of work a week is worth the $1,599 HSA charges for the laundry service, your affluent attitude is showing. If you’re enrolled in the program, the key to reframing the situation is claiming that your parents forced you to sign up. It wasn’t your choice — you wanted to be like the rest of your plebeian peers, but your parents could not bear the thought of you (gasp) doing your own laundry. They figured you don’t know how to work a washer or dryer machine, a task typically completed by the brigade of housekeepers your parents employ. Next year, unenroll — wikiHow has “how to do your laundry” tutorials that you can study over the summer.
Step 4: You attended Phillips Exeter, or Phillips Andover, or maybe Harvard-Westlake, Choate Rosemary Hall, Groton, or Trinity. If you paid to receive your education, this step applies to you. The things you learned are not common knowledge: Office hours are not normal, summer internships are not standard, teacher-student relationships are not readily attainable, LinkedIn connecting and networking are foreign. You should not imply that your peers are navigating Harvard with the same ease — and you should offer advice and never belittle people without an intimate understanding of the inner workings of elite academia. Attending Harvard is weird. Simply put, most people our age don’t come here or think about it. You must know and accept this fact.
Step 5: Harvard Square is significantly more expensive than most neighborhoods. However, you might not recognize this because you’re accustomed to high prices and high-end restaurants. Even if you have the bank balance to effortlessly afford the overpriced goods sold in the Square, you must eat out sparingly, only when your friends suggest. In conversations, complain that the cost of eating out is ridiculously unaffordable and that the restaurant options are excessively formal. Announce that you miss McDonald’s and that you envy your friends who matriculated to state schools with fast food offerings. Don’t worry if you’ve never eaten at McDonald’s or if all your high school friends went to Ivy League colleges; nobody is fact-checking. Once a week, declare that Annenberg food is delicious, asserting that it is “so much better than public school lunch,” even if you have never stepped foot in a public school.
Step 6: Lastly, don’t disclose your legacy status. Regardless of the fact that your entire family tree attended Harvard, or universities like Harvard, you must frequently express that you feel “honored” to attend, “overwhelmed” by the elite environment, and “surprised” that you were even admitted. For those of you who share a last name with a hall or house on campus, change your Instagram handle from your first and last name to your first and middle. And, of course, have your roommates sign nondisclosure agreements.
After following steps one through six, you can successfully fool your friends until winter break begins and you hop on the first charter flight back to your family’s winter chalet.
Congratulations! A pseudo-ordinary semester awaits.
Sections
Trap music is a form of truth and reclamation; it offers respite to those who relate. The albums of Young Jeezy, Gucci Mane, and T.I. — the holy trinity of trap music — served as the audio for my early adolescence, transporting me to Atlanta’s early-to-mid 2000s trap music scene. My middle school years can be captured by afternoons spent bopping to Kodak Black mixtapes, a spiritual kinship among Black kids from Southwest Florida. But recently, the emotionally and rhythmically-compelling genre that shaped my childhood was challenged.
On Oct. 11, in the Hutchins Center Hiphop Archive & Research Institute, John Augustine Jr., known professionally as Dee-1, commanded the room with the controversial question: “Is trap music a trap?”
Born and raised in New Orleans, Louisiana, Dee-1 believes that “while trap music may lead some to the dance floor, it will guide others towards the graveyard.” He is a rapper, educator, activist, business owner, member of the Louisiana Council on the Success of Black Men and Boys, and the 2022-2023 Nasir Jones Hiphop Fellow at the Hiphop Archive & Research Institute. He said his lifelong relationship with trap music has confidently led him to one conclusion: Trap music traps young Black people who idolize rappers. But these young people aren’t culpable — fans are. You are. In his two-hour lecture, Dee-1 asserted that rappers respond to fans, and if their audience endorses music that celebrates a life of drug use, gun violence, misogyny, and crime, the musicians will continue to create work centering those topics.
To fully understand Dee-1’s message about the social implications of trap, it is important to first acknowledge the difference between rap and trap music. Rap is the vocal delivery of lyrics within hip-hop music, a style that emphasizes rhyme, rhythm, and slang. Trap music is a subgenre of hip-hop that emerged in the American South during the late 1980s. Its name was derived from the Atlanta slang word “trap,” referring to a “trap house” used to manufacture, sell, and do drugs. More broadly, trap symbolizes something inescapable and grim. Pioneers of trap include Shawty Redd, Fatboi, Young Jeezy, Gucci Mane, and T.I., whose work chronicles their lives navigating low-income urban communities. Dee-1 insisted that as trap rose in relevance, the glamorization of the trap life became detrimental for young listeners in close proximity to the lifestyle.
After graduating from Louisiana State University, Dee-1 became a middle school math teacher working with students in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. As an educator, he intimately observed how Black middle school students consumed trap music and copied the attitudes of rappers. During the lecture, he recounted a story of a seventh-grade boy who got a tattoo of the phrase “M.O.B.” (Money Over Bitches). When Dee-1 asked if he knew what the acronym meant, the student referenced a Lil Wayne song with the same title.
Dee-1 said he understands why young Black people are attracted to trap music: it musicalizes and makes sense of their lived experiences. However, he said that rappers who endure poverty and get involved in gang life should instead “use their creative capital to describe [those things] in a way that does not cross over into glorifying.”  But he never defined the line between describing and glorifying — and his ambiguity left me wondering whether violence, drugs, and poverty can be rapped about without being deemed irresponsible.
Following his reflection on the collateral consequences of trap music, Dee-1 argued that supporting trap music makes you complicit in the repression of Black youth from low-income urban communities. He then challenged the crowd of mostly Black Harvard affiliates attending the lecture with two questions: “Do we want to escalate or amplify the oppression synonymous with our experience in the United States?” and “What part of our culture do we want to show to the world?”
As the room fell silent, I couldn’t help but feel that these questions were misguided, and that they reinforced the rhetoric of conservative proponents of racial uplift and respectability politics. I value Dee-1’s concern for young Black people who grow up without firm ideas of success outside of the dysfunctional, hyper-material representation of success in trap. I, too, grew up alongside people who fell victim to the unsustainable, damaging, and dangerous trap lifestyle. But that wasn’t entirely because of trap music; that was primarily because the conditions of our community made it so that there were few avenues for ambition to travel or traditional success to materialize. The responsibility rests on a government which upholds oppressive institutions such as public housing segregation, inequitable education, hyper-targeted policing, and communal disempowerment through mass incarceration — not on trap music.
My main issue with Dee-1’s condemnation is his unwarranted vilification of rappers. In his analysis, he ignored the clear intentions of rappers: escapism, artistic expression, money, and social mobility. When claiming that trap struggles to receive pushback because it is “real life for some, entertainment for others,” he failed to mention several important considerations.
For listeners who resonate, trap music can be unifying. And if it does inspire those listeners to pursue paths similar to their favorite rappers, trap is still not entirely at fault, as proximity to the lifestyle is a result of historical and continual racial subordination. Listeners who exist at a significant “distance from disadvantage,” as Dee-1 put it, but feel comfortable bumping to trap music without taking action are truly problematic. Enjoying the hard-hitting, hype beats of famous rappers without learning about the social issues that created the genre is a harmful expression of privilege.
I agree with Dee-1’s assertion that the oversexualization and objectification of women in trap music is damaging and destructive — and with his criticism of Black masculinity. “Masculinity doesn't have to mean the only way that I know how to handle my emotions is to get violent,” he said. Redefining Black masculinity is necessary for trap music to truly thrive. Yet, even that fault can be connected to racial subordination, a complicated reality that requires a more nuanced conversation than what a brief lecture can offer.
Still, several questions remain unanswered: Do the supposed “traps” of trap music outweigh its value? Can you evaluate the “right” way to musically reconcile with injustice? How should Black Americans communicate exasperation and emergency and unrest? While I could attempt to resolve these questions and provide a directive detailing what Black Americans should do about Dee-1’s discussion, I won’t. Because, quite bluntly, Black Americans are not and never will be wholly responsible for remedying the “repercussions” of trap music. And asking us to do so would be disrespectful and a disservice to the severity of the situation.
Instead, I encourage Black Americans to continue to find solace and power in this beautifully complicated art form which disrupts conversations about racial justice and embraces its own spectacle. Hopefully trap music’s stark, stunning, and suggestive nature will convince the government to begin the long-overdue work of repairing the conditions that trap music characterizes.
Sections
One night last summer I woke abruptly from a Covid-induced half-dream state, having mistaken the pounding of my own heart for the sound of a 19th century steam engine barreling toward my bedroom.
I’d just finished reading “Anna Karenina,” and the story had felt so real, the setting so masterfully outlined, that I’d assimilated into it — I had become Anna, at least for the instant that she had spent still alive on the tracks, bracing for impact. I sat upright in bed and put a hand to my chest, feeling my own heart going.
As my eyes adjusted, the objects in my bedroom slowly materialized. I wondered, aside from the fever, what had caused me to empathize so fully, to transplant my selfhood into Anna? And even more troubling — why had I enjoyed it, the metallic shuddering, the billowing steam, the overwhelming sense that everything was about to end?
That summer, a random wave of loneliness had made me do crazy things. I texted an ex from an especially tumultuous time in high school. I spent entire days writing and editing one frenzied, undisciplined short story. I was doing so much of nothing that the plotline of my life effectively came to a standstill. It was like cabin fever — I didn’t go outside, didn’t travel anywhere. The present tense of my life was so vacant, so emptied of the action to which it was normally accustomed, that it collapsed in on itself.
Then I started a job at a local independent bookstore. Work didn’t fix my loneliness, though I’d secretly hoped it would. I wasn’t really busy — I spent most of my shifts reading behind the register, riding a caffeine high through a hundred, sometimes two hundred pages, scribbling particularly touching quotes in my notebook.
One quote from “Swann’s Way” stood out: “We have such numerous interests in our lives that it is not uncommon, on a single occasion, for the foundations of a happiness that does not yet exist to be laid down alongside the intensification of a grief from which we are still suffering.”
I copied the quote down with shaky hands. Proust was speaking about me, to me; his words permitted me to wallow in my loneliness as long as I needed to, as it was necessary for the blooming of an eventual greater happiness that would make all the suffering worth it.
Later that day, sitting on the beach, I opened “Swann’s Way” again and read: “The ingeniousness of the first novelist consisted in understanding that in the apparatus of our emotions, the image being the only essential element, the simplification that would consist in purely and simply abolishing real people would be a decisive improvement.”
A wave threw itself against the sand. Yes, that was it — the source of my loneliness. I was living not in reality but only in the partiality of image, which was all I could bear of life. I had located myself in the character of Anna Karenina because for all her literary complexity, she was just an image; she did not have to be a person. I was living Proust’s ideal novel. But life was not a novel.
The sun set without color. For the first time, I sat before my delusion, apart from it and bearing witness to it.
***
A few weeks later, in the car, skirting the edge of a reservoir in the San Gabriel mountains, I told my mother about my loneliness. It was difficult to bring up the subject; I wondered if loneliness was even the right word. My mom was always good at knowing the words for things. I’d brought my notebook and in the passenger seat I read her a quote from Proust about idleness, loneliness, and a thirst for change.
I read of the urge “for something new, even if it is something worse, some emotion, some sorrow; when our sensibility, which happiness has silenced like an idle harp, wants to resonate under some hand, even a rough one, and even if it might be broken by it….”
I told my mother that I missed my ex, that the immediacy that I had felt with him felt lost forever. The car kept climbing through the alpine forest, where ancient pines stood preserved by the sparse air, though long-dead. After a moment, she spoke.
Then, we parked and started up the mountain.
***
On the plane back to Boston, I opened my notebook to a quote, not from Proust or Tolstoy, but from my mother. It reads: “You don’t miss that love, you miss the opportunity that it gave you to stop existing.” The quote goes on, talking about how love and infatuation enable people to relocate and sometimes obliterate their sense of self by investing it entirely in another person. I had hated it when she said it, but I knew that it was true.
The issue hadn’t been solved, but I’d named it and distanced myself from it, and that was akin to a victory. What I felt (and still feel) wasn’t exactly loneliness; it was rather an existential itchiness, an unwillingness to live as an isolated individual. I remedied this by transplanting my identity into other people — or my images of them. I’d preferred to project myself onto these characters — my closeted ex from high school, a fictional woman preparing to collide with a train — rather than take on the impossible, infinite task of living for myself.
During the flight I listened to music and looked out the window. When my eyes started hurting I shut the window and opened “Jane Eyre,” the last in my summer series of big novels. After reading for a while I started feeling inspired, so I took out my notebook and scribbled at will.
Later it dawned on me that what I’d been scribbling was a story. Its outline felt vaguely familiar, but the content was new to me; this story was its own animal. I knew that I’d be working on it for the next two months, at least. I made notes upon notes, feeling its characters and plotlines start to untangle in my head.
I began to see the act of writing fiction then as a new way to locate myself somewhere other than my body. It worked for me as a sort of side-door, a less self-destructive alternative to reckon with my existential discomfort — I was still inhabiting fictional worlds, but these were worlds whose continuity and legibility I was entirely responsible for. Writing stories became an exercise in explaining the world to myself.
Somewhere above the Great Plains, I thought, for the first time, about returning to school. What would happen to my loneliness once the academic year began? Part of me felt protective over it, having spent so much time wallowing in it. I decided to let the question linger; I didn’t worry about an answer.
Instead I read. In the novel, Jane was coming back to Thornfield after some time away. She was feeling all sorts of angst; she paced and pined and bemoaned her circumstance. And then, seemingly all at once, she chose to go on living for herself.
“Little things recall us to earth; the clock struck in the hall; that sufficed; I turned from moon and stars, opened a side-door, and went in.”
Sections
When Meira L. Levinson applied to be a professor at the Harvard Graduate School of Education in 2006, the application asked her to propose a course. Levinson suggested one about educational ethics, where graduate students would read theory in one class and then apply that theory to a case study in the next. Once Levinson arrived at the school, however, she discovered a problem: There weren’t enough case studies to run the course.
“So I thought, ‘Oh, okay, I’m going to have to write my own cases,’” Levinson recalls. Her efforts to fill this information gap slowly culminated in the founding of EdEthics, an initiative that aims to develop a global field of educational ethics by creating case studies and professional development programs.
Levinson earned her doctorate in politics at Oxford University, and at her core, she says, she is a political theorist. In her eight years teaching at Boston and Atlanta public schools, Levinson encountered ethical problems on a weekly basis.
“I really worried that I’m just not being fair to my students or that I’m not sure that I’m really living up to my values here,” Levinson says. “What should I do with the kid who’s disrupting other kids’ learning? And how do I think about what I owe that kid versus what I owe the rest of the class?”
She also found herself without a space to talk about these dilemmas. Though Levinson met often with other teachers to discuss classroom organization and plan events, the school didn’t schedule time for deeper conversation. She avoided talking to her colleagues about her ethical worries.
“That was a shameful thing to talk about. And so I might go home and talk to my husband about it, or I might just cry in the car, but it wasn’t an open part of the conversation,” Levinson says. “There are very few spaces in which it seems okay to admit that you might be wronging children and their parents.”
This lack of open communication, Levinson realized, also contributed to division. Educators took starkly different positions on issues like standardized testing and charter schools but rarely exchanged ideas with opposing camps.
When Levinson returned to the world of academia by joining HGSE, she kept these experiences in mind. Recognizing the need for theoretical work that responded to educators’ real, everyday questions, she continued working to create an educational ethics course. Starting in 2012, she led a doctoral research practicum for graduate students, where they practiced writing their own case studies.
After two years, Levinson possessed enough material to start teaching the course she first proposed in her 2006 application. In 2012, she wrote two books, “Making Civics Count: Citizenship Education for a New Generation” and “No Citizen Left Behind,” which encourage students and teachers to reshape their schools’ power dynamics through civic action. She also founded a website, Justice in Schools, to share resources for educational ethics.
The website features a diverse collection of case studies. They range from “High School at the Coal-Face,” a study exploring a theoretical scholarship arrangement with an Australian coal mining company, to “Picking Battles,” a fictional conversation between Florida educators about arming teachers with guns.
K-12 teachers across the nation began using these online case studies, hoping to find guidance for their own ethical dilemmas. The Chicago public school system even began using these materials to train thousands of educators.
In 2017, Levinson started talking with the Chicago school district about developing an official partnership — what she calls the true conception of the EdEthics initiative. The process was “very organic,” she says, as her goal evolved from developing case studies to establishing educational ethics as a wider field.
“I actually would like us to be able to develop a field of educational ethics modeled after bioethics, that, like bioethics, is designed to respond to questions that arise in policy and practice,” Levinson says.
As an initiative, EdEthics hopes to generate theory, resources, and conversations — all while centering the needs of teachers, the people on the ground. Through training sessions, educators analyze case studies and reflect on their own experiences facing ethical dilemmas. Ellis Reid, a fifth-year doctoral student at HGSE and workshop developer for EdEthics, says he notices the initiative’s impact most when he receives feedback from teachers after these sessions.
“They like having a space to step back,” he says. “When you have to look after 150 kids, you don’t really have a second to yourself.”
Book sales and user data also reveal that EdEthics has a concrete effect on pre-service teacher training, helping to guide students preparing for teaching careers, says Levinson. Professors are using the initiative’s case studies in undergraduate and graduate courses, informing students about educational ethics before they begin working in the school system.
EdEthics’s effect on in-service teachers is harder to measure. Levinson knows the numbers of the Justice in Schools website well — she says they have a readership of about 750,000 — but the best evidence still comes from talking to teachers.
Outside of Chicago, EdEthics partners with the Boston public school system and Harvard itself. The initiative is producing a set of case studies designed to help Harvard affiliates talk about the ethical questions raised by the University’s legacy of slavery.
Both at Harvard and through its network of partnerships, EdEthics hopes to encourage ethical practices at all levels of education and foster open discourse about classroom ethics. “We have huge partisan divides, and people are really wary about talking across them,” Levinson says. “And these cases really do enable conversation across lines of difference about complex moral and political choices.”
Sections
We all know and love Remy, Harvard’s famous cat, who is owned by a local Cambridge family yet spends his days lounging around in the Yard, leading a relatively carefree life of leisure with a stable home, a campus full of those who love him, and a Twitter following of more than 2,000 fans.
What you may not know is that Remy isn’t Harvard’s first school pet. Remy had a predecessor by the name of Sarah — a single, working cat with a much less stable housing and financial situation for whom life held a lot more danger and uncertainty.
In 1931, Sarah the College Cat was found sheltered in a window of Holden Chapel. It is unknown who discovered or named her, but according to the Cambridge Historical Society, she came under the collective care of the Yard’s janitors and watchmen.
Sarah took up residence in Harvard Hall. When she wasn’t following the Yard patrols throughout the night, she earned her keep by catching mice. She was awfully good at it: in 1936, the Boston Globe reported she had single-handedly eliminated all of the mice that found their way to Harvard Hall.
In early 1934, Sarah became pregnant with kittens. “Sarah, Yard cat and mouser extraordinary, is now anticipating a blessed event,” The Crimson reported. The Harvard Hall janitor who had been taking care of her revoked his responsibility, claiming that caring for kittens would be too burdensome.
Stoughton Hall’s janitor assumed primary responsibility for Sarah instead, but his adoption was conditional — he expected her kittens to grow into expert mousers and follow in their mother’s paw-steps. He had plans to make money renting out the kittens for mousing services throughout the Yard.
Sarah gave birth to three kittens in April 1934. One janitor suggested naming the kittens Increase Mather, Cotton Mather, and Whatsa Mather — a play on the names of Harvard’s sixth president and his son — but the janitor’s idea was shot down. Beyond that, little is known about what names the kittens were given or where they were taken after their birth.
After becoming a mother, Sarah’s fan base continued to grow. In 1936, she was gifted a small red collar by an anonymous admirer. (“NEW COLLAR FOR SARAH,” The Crimson’s headline read.) On it hung a plate engraved with her name, which she wore proudly and displayed to everyone who took the time to look. Though the collar is lost to history, the package it came in, addressed to Sarah herself, is located in the Harvard Archives along with one of her photographs.
Unfortunately, Sarah went missing in 1937. Yard police immediately began a tireless search for the stray. Members of the Greater Boston community pitched in, calling in reports of sightings from Dorchester, Roxbury, and Lowell.  The search turned up two dachshunds near Winthrop House, but no Sarah.
Though her disappearance was mysterious and left students mourning, Sarah’s six-year presence on campus earned her a spot as one of Harvard’s unofficial mascots and no doubt paved the way for Remy to take up the torch as the beloved campus cat.
Sections
As the sun rises over Harvard’s campus, thousands of stressed students, restless tourists, and groggy Cambridge residents begin their morning commutes. Out of this blurry sea of movement, an azure figure emerges, weaving in and out of the traffic.
Bluebikes — Greater Boston’s dock-based bikeshare system — was first installed in Cambridge in 2012. Now the fleet is over 4,000-strong, divided between more than 400 dock stations around Greater Boston and enabling residents to travel affordably and sustainably.
The Cambridge City Government, the Metropolitan Area Planning Council, and twelve other municipalities in the Greater Boston area work to coordinate the system. The collaboration has “resulted in one of the most highly-utilized bikeshare programs in the country,” Susanne Rasmussen, director of environmental and transportation planning in Cambridge’s Community Development Department, wrote in an email.
Of course, this growth hasn’t come without logistical challenges — chief among them a mismatch in supply and demand between stations. Hidden behind Bluebikes’ fairly straightforward user experience is a complex operation, running day and night to keep bikes rolling and stations stocked.
Currier resident Shiv Chandra ’24 is one of the many riders for whom Bluebikes are a main form of transportation. Though Chandra “didn't really know how to ride a bike until sophomore year of college,” he realized Bluebikes could alleviate the isolation of the Quad.
The Quad boasts proximity to two Bluebike stations. On most mornings, Chandra unlocks a bike with the Bluebikes app and pedals haphazardly to class.“I’m cutting across streets, not stopping on reds,” he admits. “As a Bluebiker, I take it as if I am both a pedestrian and a car.” By now, he’s ridden over 140 miles, according to the app’s tracking.
But Chandra’s biggest qualm is the discrepancy insupply and demand of Bluebikes across different locations. Once, while running late for lunch by the Charles, Chandra had to bargain for the last Bluebike with a fellow Quad resident, only to arrive at the River and find a full station with no spots to dock his bike. “I ended up biking back to the Quad, parking back there, and then walking back,” he says. “It took me half an hour.”
The Bluebike system has grown tremendously in popularity over the last ten years as Boston and its neighbors expanded alternatives to carbon-heavy forms of transit. But even with increased supply, certain stations — especially those near Harvard and MIT — are busier than others, creating a need for a streamlined organization system behind the scenes.
Bluebikes workers are organized into three teams General Manager Dominick A. Tribone terms the “three-legged stool of the Bluebike operation”: one dedicated to maintaining the bike fleet, another for the stations, and one for service delivery. The workers are contracted through Motivate, a Lyft-owned bike-sharing logistics company that operates many major bikeshare systems across the country.
Battered by Boston’s weather and reckless riding, it’s difficult to keep the Bluebikes in perfect condition, but the bike fleet team makes sure they remain rideable. Split between a mobile team that performs light fixes out in the field and a depot team that services heavier repairs, the mechanics ensure each bike is assessed every 45 days or immediately if a user reports an issue.
Luckily these fixes are purely mechanical; Unlike bikes in other cities’ dockless bike share systems, Bluebikes do not contain any digital technology like embedded GPS chips or power sources.
“One of the beauties of the system is that the bikes are completely dumb,” Tribone says. Even the lights on the bikes do not require a battery, powered instead by electricity generated from the spinning of the front wheel. Keeping bikes “dumb,” or mechanically basic, simplifies the system by consolidating all the technology for locking and ride-tracking in immobile dock stations.
Often seen around town in their royal blue logoed vans, the service delivery team handles retrieving lost bikes, most of which are just improperly docked.
Tribone notes that the majority of missing bikes are rented for single trips by people unfamiliar with the system, emphasizing that informational outreach initiatives will help solve the problem.
An imbalance of bikes between stations, which leaves riders like Chandra unable to find a bike at empty stations or dock their bike at full ones, is also tackled in part by the service delivery team.
Tribone attributes this issue to “peaky flows” — where parts of the city have significant inflows and outflows of people at different times of day — that arise from variations in land use. For example, Kendall Square has a lot of commercial spaces and relatively low residential land use, resulting in a massive inflow of workers in the morning and a massive outflow in the evening. This trendovercrowds docks early and leaves them emptylater in the day. Similarly, stations at the Quad empty as students travel from dorms to class, filling up stations by the Yard.
High-traffic stations may employ a valet, who can take bikes off the dock and stash them on the side to temporarily increase the bike capacity of a particular dock. Bluebikes also loops in users: riders can sign-up through the Bluebikes app to be a Bike Angel, where you can earn trip credit for taking bikes from crowded stations and riding them to empty ones. Bike rebalancing vans run 20 hours a day to move bikes from full stations to empty ones, responding in real time to changes in demand observed from station data.
Despite these rebalancing efforts, Tribone concedes that more permanent solutions to system-wide imbalances are needed.
“One of the fundamental tenets of a bike share system is that it's going to reduce car usage in dense places but we have to use vans to move the bikes around,” he says.
But the solutions to some of these problems lie outside of the scope of Tribone’s team and instead in the hands of local government entities.
For Cara Seiderman, Transportation Program Manager at Cambridge’s Community Development Department, one solution to the supply bottlenecks includes expanding the system.“Our goal is that there is a Bluebikes station within one-eighth of a mile of every resident or worker,” she wrote in an email.
Cambridge City Councilor Quinton Y. Zondervan hopes that adding more accessible options to the Bluebikes fleet will further increase usage and address issues of mobility equity.
“Not everyone can peddle a bike constantly,” Zondervan says. “Having an electronic assist can make the bikes available to a larger group of people.” He also points to peddle bikes and scooters as other more accessible options.
But a complicated system with many moving parts has stagnated new initiatives, he admits.
“It's not so easy for us to just snap our fingers and have something different. It's a contract that involves multiple cities and towns which further complicates making changes,” he says. “If we introduce E-bikes, how does that work with other cities and towns if they don't want to approve it?”
Despite these complexities, working with other municipalities “to create and operate the bikeshare system across municipal boundaries has been enormously positive,” Rasmussen wrote. In the face of climate change, which transcends political boundaries, this kind of collaboration could be “a model for how other regional mobility services could be provided in the future,” she adds.
After more than a decade in Cambridge, Bluebikes are now an indispensable service for many Cantabrigians. The click of bikes docking and undocking is a fixture, and while the City works out the kinks in the logistics of their fleet, Chandra has advice for students looking for a Bluebike amidst supply gaps. “Selfishly, don’t go near them,” he says. “They’re mine!”
Sections
“NO BORDERS. NO BANKS.”
“CAPITALISM IS A PYRAMID SCHEME.”
“THERE’S NO SUCH THING AS A REVOLUTIONARY GOVERNMENT.”
“TO CHANGE ANYTHING, START EVERYWHERE.”
Such phrases line the dimly lit interior of the Democracy Center, a meetinghouse for activists and organizers located in Cambridge. While only a stone’s throw away from Adams House, the space feels completely foreign to anything at Harvard — there aren’t classmates or faculty but instead ‘comrades’; the prevailing dress code isn’t navy-blue suits but raised-fist T-shirts and an array of hair colors and piercing styles; and the ambition isn’t to work for the big banks but to destroy them.
On a suspiciously warm November weekend,, the Democracy Center was home to the Boston Anarchist Book Fair, which event organizer Brian Moen describes as “a bunch of anarchists and anarchist-adjacent people coming together to build solidarity.”
Walking through the fair, almost all of the slogans encouraged disrupting the order in one way or another — phrases like “don’t cling to the old world!” “abolish the police!” and “revolt!” line the posters and pamphlets — to the extent that the relative tranquility of a book fair seemed almost paradoxical.
“So anarchists are known for doing book fairs. It’s kind of a joke,” Moen explains. “What does a Marxist do? Well, they’ve staged a lot of revolutions. What do anarchists do? Book fairs.”
While the Democracy Center is unaffiliated with Harvard, its proximity to Harvard’s campus begs the question of how elite educational institutions fit into the anarchist equation.
Several of the organizations at the fair recounted protesting in solidarity with the Harvard Graduate Students Union. Alanis Mystif, a member of CrimethInc., described on its website as a “decentralized network pledged to anonymous collective action,” calls on universities like Harvard to reckon with their position of privilege.
“Anarchists also believe that the point isn’t to make a better elite higher education, but rather to figure out how to horizontally redistribute all the resources that are concentrated in places like this, so that they can benefit everybody,” says Mystif.
Mystif also lauds the efforts of the people within those universities who push their institutions to broaden their outreach.
“Universities often have very extractive relationships to the communities that they live in,” says Mystif. “Yet at the same time, people on the margins of these universities also turn that upside down and use the resources of the university to funnel outwards to community projects, collective endeavors.”
Mystif’s organization, CrimethInc., springs from the belief that “the most compassionate way for us to live our lives is to devote ourselves completely to the struggle against all forms of authority and domination,” he says.
In this vein, the organizations at the book fair have no central leader or authoritative structure. Each time I asked book fair goers about their respective roles, I was met with a blank look, an eerie silence, and some variation of the same answer: “Everything is democratically run,” as Nick Watter from the Greater Boston Tenants Union put it.
“There is no leader or anything like that. There’s no board, no executive director that makes the profits,” he adds. “It's all tenant run.”
The planning of the fair ran similarly, according to Moen.
“We have a great collective. We work by consensus and by figuring everything out together,” he says. “We don’t use voting.”
Despite the collective’s choice to avoid voting, Mystif dispels the myth that anarchists don’t see value in political engagement at large. “What we try to do is promote the idea that you don't have to wait once every four years to participate politically,” he says. “There's actually ways to participate every single day.”
In Mystif’s view, the book fair acts as both an opportunity for connection and solidarity among anarchists, as well as a rallying cry for those who don’t yet associate with the term — such as family, in Mystif’s case.
“I find that when I talk with people, when I talk to my mom, we tend to find that we share a lot of values. We just don't necessarily take them to the same conclusions,” he says. “The sorts of things that we’re talking about — a world free of hierarchy and domination, horizontal organizing, care for all people, respect across lines of difference — are pretty good, widely shared values.”
The only difference, as he puts it, is that “anarchists have an interesting and provocative hypothesis about what we should do as a result of those values.”
Moen hopes that the book fair will “energize the left, energize anti-capitalist sentiments, bring people together, and remind people that anarchists are here and organizing.”
Sections
Beneath the freshly turned red and yellow autumn leaves at Harvard Divinity School, Francesca Rubinson, a second-year HDS student, warmly recounts the Liberation Seder she attended on Passover last year. “That was just a really beautiful evening and meal together that I felt like we shared with lots of Jewish folks, and non Jewish folks who were attending their first Seder ever but were interested in learning what Jews for Liberation was all about,” Rubinson says.
Jews for Liberation, a student organization composed primarily of Jewish students at Harvard Divinity School, describes itself in its Instagram bio as a “spiritual and political space for anti-Zionist and non-Zionist Jews at Harvard.” S. Lovett-Graff founded the group last fall, seeking to fill a political gap on campus by specifically catering to those who they describe as having the most marginalized beliefs in Jewish organizations. Currently, the organization functions “primarily as a network to connect people with resources,” but “we are still building,” Lovett-Graff says. For now, their programming includes events that focus on Judaism, community building — like the Liberation Seder —, and political organizing.
For Rubinson, Jews for Liberation provided a space on campus that allowed her to explore aspects of her identity that other Jewish spaces didn’t always center. “While there were many lovely Jewish people at HDS who I enjoyed celebrating holidays and Shabbat and being in community with, I did also feel like that political activation piece was missing,” Rubinson says.
Without a space that catered to her specific values, Rubinson says she often struggled with being pigeon-holed into a political stance. “[There is a] tacit assumption of Zionism within Jewish spaces where that’s often considered the baseline or default position. And that can feel very alienating to people who either identify as anti-Zionist, non-Zionist, or even people who are questioning their relationship to Zionism,” she says.
One of Jews for Liberation’s major goals is to rally support for Palestinian solidarity efforts at Harvard. Most recently, they released a statement of support for the Palestine Solidarity Committee’s speaker event on Oct. 24 featuring Mohammed El-Kurd, a Palestinian writer and activist. His visit to campus stirred controversy and protest from Harvard Hillel and the Harvard Israel Initiative, which claim some of El-Kurd’s views are antisemitic.
But for Jews for Liberation, this show of solidarity felt natural, says Lovett-Graff, pointing out that some members of the group are also part of the Harvard College Palestine Solidarity Committee. “We have members who are actively interested in relationship building and doing deep relational work to see how we can best support in a solidarity role and in an education role, in terms of educating our own community on Palestinian solidarity work.”
Lovett-Graff believes that Jews for Liberation has a responsibility within wider solidarity efforts to help its own members dismantle what they describe as an internalized theology of Zionism. “We are offering up space for people to really deconstruct their own narratives and assumptions around Zionism with enormous grace and patience,” Lovett-Graff says. “I think it is the role of Jewish people to hold that space for other Jewish people so that this dismantling of internalized Zionism is not put on Palestinians.”
But doing the work other Jewish organizations and individuals are protesting against can come with a feeling of alienation. “I think, frankly, one of the biggest blocks to building a decolonial Judaism that is anti-Zionist and really confronts Zionism is isolation. It’s a feeling of being alone,” Lovett-Graff says.
They view the increased visibility that comes from the physical presence of Jews for Liberation on campus as an opportunity for deeper community-building. “I think that when people have a space to build relationships and acknowledge that they’re not alone, it can only support people in imagining what Judaism and what Jewish life on campus can look like,” Lovett-Graff says.
Within the web of varied Jewish spaces and political spaces on campus, Jews for Liberation fills a specific niche at the intersection of the religious and the political. On the one hand, the group exists as an affinity space, an inclusive home on campus to celebrate Jewish and progressive identities. On the other hand, Jews for Liberation projects a clear political stance outwards, and takes decisive action to further specific causes.
Members of the group emphasize that politics and religion are not necessarily separable. “My political activism, for me, feels very rooted in my Jewish identity,” Rubinson says. “No religious space is apolitical,” Lovett-Graff says. “For Jewish spaces to say that they’re devoid of politics in some way is a political stance.”
During the Ten Days of Repentance between Rosh Hashanah and Yom Kippur, Jews for Liberation organized a transformative justice tashlich ceremony, a ritual during which people throw bread or stones into water to symbolize throwing away sins and turning over a new leaf.
Rubinson frames tashlich not only as a personal, religious ritual, but also as connected to more universal practices of transformative justice. Jews for Liberation invited Harvard prison abolition groups to the ritual, a partnership that aligns with the group’s general approach of intersectionality and solidarity. “I really do feel a sense that my liberation is bound up with the liberation of others,” says Kevin Keystone, a second-year HDS student and member of Jews for Liberation. “And by that, I of course mean Palestinians, but I don’t only mean Palestinians. For me, that’s also anti-racist work, that’s prison abolition, that’s fossil fuel divestment.”
Jews for Liberation’s work to decouple Judaism and Zionism has not come without pushback. Last year, when Jews for Liberation was first established, Lovett-Graff sent out a message to a WhatsApp group of Jewish Harvard students announcing the group’s establishment and founding principles. Lovett-Graff woke up the next morning to 93 unread messages and two missed calls. “The public acknowledgment that anti-Zionist Jews exist has been met with hostility and threats and insults,” says Lovett-Graff, though they note that people who wanted to get involved with Jews for Liberation also responded to the initial message with support and enthusiasm.
“Anytime a group wants to challenge an entrenched and, in my view, one dimensional politics that is held by powerful, institutional community groups, it’s going to make people uncomfortable,” says Keystone. “I think that’s actually an indication of why it’s so important.”
Members of Jews for Liberation don’t want to isolate themselves from the broader Jewish community — at Harvard or beyond. Rather, they say they are trying to build more inclusive communal foundations. “Our intended goal is to create an expansive space in which we center Jews who are most marginalized by Jewish organizations and communities,” Lovett-Graff says. Many Jews for Liberation members are involved with diverse Jewish groups on and off campus. “I belong to multiple different Jewish communities, and move between different Jewish spaces,” Rubinson says. “But I feel like that’s a part of the work I try to do, to be a little bit of a boundary crosser, an interconnected person.”
Sections
From the beginning, the raid moved in an unconventional direction.
As part of a pre-exam ritual, male Harvard students often walked towards the female dorms to conduct “panty raids” — but on May 19, 1963, the Radcliffe students flipped this trend on its head.
About 25 Radcliffe students marched from the Quad to the River Houses, laughing among themselves. “We don’t want your sockies, we just want your Jockies!” the group chanted outside of Winthrop House, calling for the men to throw down their underwear.
These cries had been heard on Harvard’s campus for over a decade, but this was the first time they were coming from female students. Male undergraduates had completed their first panty raid at Harvard in 1950, part of a nationwide trend. By 1952, Time Magazine reported that the raids had “reached the epidemic stage,” with 52 different schools participating in the fad. The panty raid, Time wrote, was “the first really daffy outbreak” on campuses since World War II. The students’ rowdiness resembled past crazes, such as the goldfish swallowing trend allegedly started by a Harvard freshman in 1939.
During raids, male students stormed nearby sister schools or female dormitories, oftentimes breaking in. They scaled walls and crashed through windows.
Many female students participated in this trend — some by throwing down their underwear, others by throwing parties for the incoming boys — but others fought back. When 2,000 University of Missouri male students raided the rooms of Stephens College and Christian College in 1952, female students sprayed them with fire hoses.
Newspapers and administrators attempted to explain the raids, partly attributing the craze to springtime boredom, exam fatigue, and boyish behavior. “Boys will be boys,” said the Governor of Missouri, when asked to comment on the 1952 raid.
One 1964 New York Times article spoke to behavioral scientists to try and find an answer. To explain the scandalous nature of panty raids, the psychologists pointed to the modern era. “Chaperonage has gone out; liquor is more available and more acceptable; decorum in general seems to have departed,” the article says.
In 1964, Graham B. Blaine Jr. ’40, who served as chief of psychiatry at Harvard University Health Services from 1964 to 1971, told the New York Times he believed frustration with schoolwork likely fueled the raids, with students feeling they “have to explode somewhere” amid the stress of exams. Blaine added that women joining the trend reflected demands for gender equality and a desire among female students “to establish the same sex standards, to dress like boys in jeans, to eliminate the difference.”
During the time of the panty raids, colleges struggled to understand their identities as co-educational institutions. At Harvard, resentment towards parietals — the rules governing dorm visits from the opposite sex — was an important catalyst for the raids. For the Radcliffe students, the issue was more complex. They sometimes welcomed the raids, but the riots also reflected the blatant resource inequality on campus. At the time, Radcliffe students lived apart from male housing, didn’t enjoy the same dorm life, and couldn’t study in Lamont Library.
In a call for fair treatment, the group of Radcliffe women who marched towards Winthrop in 1963 decided to co-opt a male trend. These women, Edward A. Grossman ’64 wrote in the Alumni Bulletin, thought their equality was “so comprehensive as to include the male pejorative to riot.”
As they chanted by the Charles River, curious Harvard students peered out their windows. Students filed out of their dorms, and the crowd, now purposeless and largely male, headed to the Quad. There, “over a thousand study-weary students laid siege to the Radcliffe dormitories, demanding female under-clothing and companionship,” The Crimson reported.
In response, the Radcliffe students who had stayed in the Quad threw both underwear and water balloons out of their windows.
The reverse raid did not bring an end to sieges of Radcliffe, with Harvard students returning once again in 1965. When fire alarms left freshmen standing around in the Yard, a group of upperclassmen took them around campus, leading them in a variety of chants. By 1 AM, the students, having tired out their route around the Yard and the river, decided to raid the Quad.
They conducted two raids on Radcliffe and one on the nearby Lesley College for Women, calling out to Radcliffe students, “Lesley gave more!” They climbed the dormitory walls, with one man driven back by rolled-up newspapers.
Though students often conducted panty raids out of boredom, the raids were also precursors to the burgeoning student activism of the late 1960s, when on-campus demonstrations became more overtly political.
The 1965 riot itself happened a few days before a planned sit-in of Lamont Library by Women to Invade Lamont Library, or WILL. WILL called off its plans when the university cracked down on student demonstrations, but Radcliffe students continued working towards equality and integration.
In 1969, over 2,000 undergraduates signed a petition demanding co-educational housing. In 1972, the Quad and the River houses became officially integrated; neither could be the site of a panty raid, reverse or otherwise.
“If the night of May 19 did nothing else,” Grossman said in 1963, “it focused a cold, hard light on the most compelling problem in the community: the integration of Radcliffe into the academic and social company of Harvard on equal terms and no eyebrows raised.”
Sections
Toward the end of last year, I started driving lessons with my dad. The family car was recognized by all of the attendants at our local petrol station, each of whom my dad knew by name. Over the years they’d seen me grow up along with the petrol prices.
As I slowly got more comfortable behind the wheel, the usual chorus whistling and shouting “Stan!” became “Stan’s son!” As December went on, the reception grew more rowdy, with each of the attendants signaling fiercely that I should pull up next to their filling tank.
I took it to mean they were delighted in seeing their once “little boy from around the corner” fulfill this rite of passage. But there was something bigger that I only came to understand as I lowered the window.
“Harvard,” the man not that many years older than me greeted me, as though the school’s name had come to stand in place of mine. I smiled an uneasy smile, finished paying for the petrol; we wished each other well, and I drove off.
For all of December, I was the only person I knew of coming to Harvard from South Africa, and, in turn, I was to everyone in South Africa the only person they knew going to Harvard — which is to say, I became Harvard. There is only really a mystical idea of this place from beyond its borders: of a half-real, half-fictional land where divine wisdom descends upon you as you enter and exit lecture halls. Without knowledge of the school’s financial aid scheme, people speculated endlessly about the wealth of my parents, for them to be sending me here: to them, Harvard’s much-publicized 3.13 percent acceptance rate read as an extension of the Wall Street one percent — both exclusive, both new-age aristocratic.
Due largely to statistics like these, the story of my acceptance ran faster than I could catch it — to TV anchors intent on soliciting my oath in front of the country that I’d go get my degree and return, to radio producers determined to be the one on whose air I’d divulge “the secret to getting in” — so fast that I hardly stopped to think about whether I was accepting the offer; being accepted into Harvard quickly became going to Harvard. In the moment I enjoyed the thrill and the pomposity of it all, mostly because I felt certain that my 15 minutes of fame would last only until I was surrounded by my new classmates, each ready to shake off their local tag as the Harvard kid.
A few months had gone by, and a friend of mine I hadn’t caught up with in a while said to me in between sips of her iced coffee: “I’ve been thinking a lot about you, about Harvard, about how over these months the two have kind of become one.”
It had been a while since I’d made eye contact. I played with my ring, and she could tell that I was becoming uncomfortable.
“How do you feel about it all?” she asked, pressing. “Answer me not like how you answer the journalists.”
“It worries me,” I told her. She’d knocked my defenses down. “There’s been this whole buzz, and I appreciate where it comes from, but I don’t know, I think about it and I feel kind of — ”
“You’re worried it’ll follow you, that nothing will match it.”
She cut me off. That hadn’t been where my thought was going, but it very likely was where it was being steered. In my head, I’d overplayed the peace of mind that would come with sinking into Harvard, so much so that I think I’d been dashing away from the other end of that thought — that as much as I pretended to resent it as time went on, the confetti would never rain down on me like it did in those few months. That everything after Harvard would savor of anti-climax, that in the story of my life Harvard was the peak and everything else would be the trough. It wasn’t something that I’d done that was being heralded — a novel I put out, a work of art, a film — it was that somewhere in a deep dark corner of this domineering institution, you’d find my name inscribed in tiny font.
That was me at my least rational, and my most egotistical, or so my friend told me. It didn’t matter if I didn’t believe her, she told me. Soon I’d be so swept up living my new life I’d forget about the arc it was or wasn’t meant to be taking.
***
On a gray rainy day in September, four weeks into the semester, I waited umbrella-less to board the bus that would take me and those in my literature class to the Museum of Fine Arts, to view its Ancient Greek history exhibit. It dawned on me then that I hadn’t even thought of whether or not I had enough money on my card for the trip, but the professor reminded me that all we needed to do was show our Harvard IDs to the driver and find a seat. I fumbled putting my ID back in my card holder. As I sat, the brown-skinned, wide-eyed 30-something-year old woman next to me exclaimed in a heavy, textured accent: “You go to Harvard? Wow! Congratulations! You must be very sma —” and yelped as the bus jolted forward, cutting her off in the middle of a sentence I’d heard a few times before.
I learned that she was Haitian and that to get back home from work she had to switch buses. She got off at the next stop, but not before checking that she had enough to cover the trip.
Showing our Harvard ID got us discounted tickets at the museum, too. So much of what we saw in that museum should’ve blown me away, but what stuck with me more was how easy it had been to see them. It might have sufficed to say that we were students and students could afford less, but then there is the unbridled excess of wealth one encounters at this university. More than existing wealth, though, is the promise — almost security — of future wealth.
“Wouldn’t it be so cool to curate an exhibit at the MFA and just do that for a living?” I overheard one classmate say to another.
“Why do that when you could work for the banks and buy the MFA?” was the response.
Stick your head in any door on this campus and you’re likely to find some remnant of that same dialogue — passion versus the banks. Lost in that conversation is the absurdity of our assurance that, worse comes to worst, there will be a high-paying corporate desk waiting for us to slip into if we so choose. As absurd as it is tone-deaf. The doors of the local bus and the New York consulting firm alike swing open before us, without much of our own doing, and walk through them we may. Before it occurred to me to think of what it meant that my seat on the bus came at no cost, I walked to it unquestioningly. I’m scared to think of what it might mean to sleepwalk into the many other doors the afterlife of my Harvard ID will steer me toward.
Within Harvard, I can be the social-science-slash-humanities kid who has big dreams of using his Harvard degree: not to deepen the pockets of those on the top floor of the high-rises, but to think of making something of myself back home. The further out of the much-alluded-to Harvard bubble I go, the more colors that picture of me loses. To that Haitian woman on the bus, she paid for her ticket, and I didn’t; for all she knew I was midway my climb up the ladder of finance. To her I was the elite one; I was the tone-deaf one; I was Harvard.
I thought of my beginning here as the great untangling. I thought I’d be able to set myself free from the conflation of self and school — I wouldn’t be the Harvard kid, because there would be no Harvard kids, just kids. Within these gates that was true. But there was a new identity in being a Harvard student in Cambridge, in Boston, in America — with its own set of preconceptions, its own intricacies. I had no way of knowing what those were, and I only learn when I do something as unthinking as taking the bus. I only knew of Harvard from afar; as I see it up close, the heights become more dizzying.
At the same time, the line between Harvard and me becomes ever more murky, and harder to trace. I want to know where it is, where Harvard stops and where I begin. Part of the trick, I think, is to look up at the high-rises, yes, but to look in all the other directions too — to look behind and ahead, and, on occasion, to turn the eye inward.
Sections
Nothing in 2020 went according to plan.
For the previous year or so, I’d been oscillating about whether or not to serve an 18-month mission for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I was a freshman who had just started the process to go when an email popped into my inbox in March: all undergraduates would be asked to evacuate campus. In the field, thousands of missionaries were being sent home. All of my uncertainty bubbled up again.
Still, I shakily continued my preparations to serve. I took it one day and one prayer at a time until, sitting in my living room with family, I opened my assignment: “You are called to serve in the Washington Tacoma mission.”
I choked on the word “Tacoma” for a moment.
Tacoma had not been my plan. I had hoped that learning my location assignment would make my decision to embark on a mission make sense. But I just felt confused. Washington? I knew only a couple things about the state before I got there: (1) my aunt and cousins lived there; and (2) it rained a lot.
Despite my frustrations and fears, I resolved to go. I had prayed about each tiny choice along the road, and while I didn’t logically feel good about my decision, spiritually it felt right.
With a heavy heart, I flew to Tacoma, Washington.
After arriving, I was introduced to my companion: Sister Markham. She was taller than me, with brown curly hair, from Sacramento, California. We would be in constant sight and sound of each other for the next several weeks, and she would train me as a missionary.
We spent our first day together sorting through paint cans and then sharing a spiritual message with a family in our new church community. That night, I unpacked my yellow blanket for my bed, yellow because I knew Washington was dark and rainy and I felt dark and rainy and I wanted something that was bright and happy. I cried myself to sleep on my first night. Sister Markham didn’t see; I didn’t want her to.
***
I wrote to the mission president at the end of my first week:
Dear President Anderson, I have now spent one week in the mission field. I am learning. I am growing.
The work is hard. I'm not surprised by the difficulty; I expect it. The bottom line is, I'm doing my best to figure out how exactly this mission thing goes. 
With sincerity, 
Sister Downs 
***
I didn’t know exactly how it all worked. So I asked lots of questions. Too many questions. I nearly drove Sister Markham through the roof with all of my “why this” and “why that.” She was still relatively new to the mission field herself, not accustomed to the whys and not entirely sure of all the answers — and she certainly wasn’t helped by my constant pestering.
We were together every moment of every day, but not in sync, not in stride. It was quiet all the time. Sometimes it just felt like there wasn’t much to say. Sometimes it felt like the right words to say weren’t there.
“Are you okay?” I would ask her when the silence stretched too long. “I’m fine,” was always the reply, but I kept asking anyway. Somehow, it still didn’t feel that way.
“I wasn’t sure what was going on and why there was contention,” she told me recently. “I didn’t understand why it wasn’t working.”
One night, I was sitting on the kitchen floor crying. Sister Markham wanted to help me, but I wouldn’t let her. I wouldn’t say anything at all. Finally, she sat on the kitchen floor and cried with me. Even though we hadn’t necessarily resolved anything, there was a moment of peace.
But still the days got darker and darker, until one morning when we drove in silence to the home of someone we were planning to visit. But we never made it inside.
I wrote to my mission president in a later letter:
Frustration is a little ball of yarn that winds tighter and tighter, building in your chest, wrapping around your heart. Constricting it. 
My companion began cry-yelling in the car.
As all of the frustrations from the past weeks poured out, I encouraged her to keep yelling. The noise felt better than the tense quiet that had been building for weeks. Finally, I could see a little bit of what it meant to be inside of her head. It wasn’t really at me — she was probably yelling at herself more than anyone. But I would’ve welcomed it even if it was towards me.
My letter continued:
Ease the tension. Unwind the ball of string. Take the attention off yourself, off your companion, off the myopic minutiae, and focus on Him. Serve out of love for Him. The string begins to unravel, and your heart begins to beat again. 
We began putting conscious effort into our communication. We set goals to strengthen our relationship. We found connections. I loved the band Oh Wonder; she had seen them in concert three times.
We actively worked to serve one another, whether that was making each other’s bed, doing the dishes, or leaving little notes for each other. We found ways to have fun together by making evening milkshakes, singing along to favorite songs, and filming the occasional vlog.
We had hit our stride. By the time our companionship ended, I was anxious about leaving her. But God had more in store for both of us.
I wrote a letter to family and friends towards the end of my time with Sister Markham:
All things may not be bright and beautiful, but they are certainly soft and sweet. 
Ok, but what have I actually been doing?? Well, it's a team effort here, so it's a "we" situation. We’ve been out knocking (rain or clouds) because we have the most joyous message in the world and will do all in our power to share it with each human on earth. We've been visiting with people (both of our faith and not) to serve and help each person find the peace and edification we know comes through our Savior. 
I called Sister Markham while writing this article. It was a joyful conversation. “I learned that sometimes listening has nothing to do with talking,” she told me. “I don’t need to understand what you’re going through to love you.” Our companionship didn’t go according to our plan, but it had gone according to God’s.
Sections
About a year ago, on Nov. 19, 2021, Kody Christiansen found an unhoused man dead in front of the Bank of America in Harvard Square.
“I’ll never forget his face. It was blue — it was frozen in time — he was gone,” Christiansen, a Harvard Extension School student and special student to the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, wrote in an article for the Harvard Political Review.
The man was known around the Square by the name of “Michael” — no last name, no further identifying familial information. He had been living around the neighborhood for years. Some residents knew to leave peanut butter and crackers, one of his favorite snacks, for him in the community fridge.
But without a confirmed full name, state ID, wallet on his person, or fingerprint in the government system, the state of Massachusetts considered Michael to be “unknown” at the time of his death.
By the time the winter snow melted and spring began, no one had laid claim to Michael’s body. Thus began a series of communications between local residents, who wanted to memorialize Michael after his death, and the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner, whose decisions were governed by the state’s right of disposition laws.
For many locals, the incident raised a critical question that few had asked before. What exactly happens to an unhoused person if they die, unidentified, in the state of Massachusetts?
At the time of his death, the only identifying object that Michael had on his body was a yellow silicone wristband with a phone number to the Capuchin Mobile Ministries.
The group, which defines itself as a “ministry of spiritual caregiving” for unhoused people, runs outreach trips throughout the Greater Boston Area, offering religious resources as well as meals to those in need.
According to Father Sam Fuller, Michael had approached the Ministries at their Harvard Square stop.
“We didn’t quite know his name — he didn’t say much — but he certainly had a benevolent presence about him,” Fuller says. “We didn’t really get involved until we all of a sudden got a call from the city morgue.”
Unfortunately, the Capuchin Fathers had no identifying information about Michael to provide the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner. “It was heartbreaking,” Fuller says. Months later, members of the Capuchin Mobile Ministries noticed a short poem — which Christiansen wrote — pinned to a tree outside the Bank of America. Denise A. Jillson, executive director of the Harvard Square Business Association, had helped organize the small act of tribute.
The poem, which addresses Michael as a “neighbor” and “friend,” reminisces about the days he would sleep outside storefronts in the Square and wishes him peace throughout his permanent rest. “Your soul, your light — not forgotten by us here,” it reads. “Forever in our hearts your memory shall stay dear.”
The lines moved Fuller to reach out to Jillson and lead the Capuchin Fathers in planning a brief memorial service for Michael near the Bank of America tree. But both Jillson and Fuller recognized that a proper funeral could not be held without the state handing over Michael’s body.
“We were all waiting for the body to be released, and waiting, and waiting,” Fuller says.
According to Massachusetts general law, after a proper investigation or examination by the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner, bodies may be released to the descendant’s “surviving spouse, the next of kin, or any friend of the deceased.” In the case that a body cannot be identified, it becomes the responsibility of the state’s Department of Transitional Assistance.
The DTA specifically provides for the disposition of deceased individuals who are recipients of government assistance, who would have been eligible for assistance at their time of death, or who died anonymously. In such situations, the DTA has a budget for organizing a funeral and final disposition for the person.
Michael’s body would supposedly be released to the DTA, and it seemed that it would stay there. Even as far out as late April, residents who hoped to organize a funeral for Michael still faced resistance from the Chief Medical Examiner's Office.
“It’s been six months. We have all of these people in the community who are willing to take the body and embalm it, have a service, and bury him appropriately. Will you release the body?” Jillson remembers asking the Examiner’s Office at the time. “They absolutely [would] not.”
At the end of May, an official from the Chief Medical Examiner’s Office reached out to Jillson to say the state had “exhausted all efforts in trying to make a positive identification for the Unknown Male that was pronounced at Mt. Auburn Hospital.”
“He will be released from our office as Unknown,” the email said.
Jillson reached out to those in the neighborhood who had offered to help with Michael’s case, expressing relief and gratitude.
Tim Keefe, whose family owns the Keefe Funeral Home in Cambridge, volunteered to embalm Michael’s body. He calls the situation a “very rare case.”
“Typically, a body that’s not identified is not released,” he says. He adds, “There were no fingerprints on record; he had no police record. And then, the medical examiners weren’t even sure if Michael was indeed his real first name.”
But Keefe believes that it was Jillson’s persistence and willingness to take responsibility that likely made the medical examiners amenable to the request. The Keefe Funeral Home became the official claimant of the body.
“They were comfortable releasing him into our care knowing that cremation was not going to take place and that he would be buried in a grave that would be marked — and ultimately, space would be given for him,” Keefe says. (Cremation would prevent potential family members or friends from being able to come forward and claim Michael’s body in the future.)
On June 30, Keefe brought the hearse in front of the First Parish Church in the Square. The long wait for Michael’s remembrance ceremony had come to an end. Michael was given a burial plot at the Cambridge Cemetery, finally laid to rest.
It has been a year since Christiansen found Michael in front of the Bank of America, and that cold morning in November, that image of Michael’s face, remains on his mind.
“The community coming together for Michael was beautiful,” Christiansen recalls. “I wish it had been easier.
Christiansen had, of course, hoped that the coroner would succeed in identifying Michael’s body and reaching out to his family members. “Somebody somewhere is missing their brother, their son, their cousin,” he says.
But given that this wasn’t the case, Christiansen says he feels “blessed” that he was the one to find Michael and could make the effort to ensure he did not “just disappear into the ether.”
To help prevent cases like Michael’s from occurring again, Christiansen has launched a program at the Harvard Square Homeless Shelter called “I Deserve ID.” Funded by grants from the Harvard College Social Fund and Harvard Radcliffe Institute, I Deserve ID assists HSHS clients with acquiring identification, a process that Christiansen knows to be both difficult and expensive from personal experience.
“As a formerly homeless person myself, I lost my ID on multiple occasions. Things were stolen from shelters; things were lost in the evenings,” Christiansen says.
He adds, “When you’re in a homeless shelter or when you’re on the streets, it’s really hard to motivate yourself to go get the help that you need. I personally was depressed. I didn’t think there was a lot of light at the end of the tunnel when I was at my lowest point of homelessness. So thinking about going to the Social Security office and standing in line for hours and trying to prove who I am without any documents — in order to get a document — just felt like a Herculean task.”
HSHS, which hosts up to 24 people every night from October to April — now provides its clients with a document of comprehensive information about how to apply for an ID, pays for their application, and allows them to set the shelter as the return address for the ID. This return address is a key part of the process — the unhoused population faces a particular barrier to procuring identification because they do not have a home address to send it to.
Christiansen says that several people have already utilized the program. He hopes HSHS will continue offering the service in years to come.
As Christiansen prepares to leave campus upon graduation in May, he imagines that Michael’s story will encourage Harvard students to reflect on how they treat Harvard Square’s unhoused residents.
Michael’s loss is just one of many within Cambridge’s unhoused population, although it received more attention than most others. But beyond the issue of identification, his death has prompted many residents to seriously consider what it would take to keep unhoused people safe — to see them as neighbors, to show care and concern for their lives and not just their deaths.
— Associate Magazine Editor Michal Goldstein can be reached at michal.goldstein@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @bymgoldstein.
Sections
I know my Jamaican ancestry intimately. In the aroma of jerk chicken and of curry goat, I feel its allure. I meet it in the haze of passionate, formidable mothers and aunts. I kiss it in the roars of big laughter and a family that stretches from me to the horizon: cousins and second cousins who are quasi-strangers to me, yet who know the secrets of my ancestry closely. Though, in many ways, I find myself disconnected from the land itself, what I feel is my mother, is her mother, is her mother’s mother’s mother’s mother: they are my people.
And recently, I’ve found that Harvard has long neglected to tell me much about these people.
There is something in the discussion of slavery that I always felt outside of — and there, at times, perhaps I should remain. My ancestors weren’t enslaved here; my ties to slavery don’t begin or end here, so the thought of speaking on the subject often gives me pause. I credit my years spent in the state-sanctioned curricular vacuum of Caribbean slavery erasure and reverence of the sanctimonious, abolitionist North for this pause.
But when I read the Presidential Committee’s report on Harvard & the Legacy of Slavery — available on the school’s website and, as of this September, on Amazon for $21.95 from the Harvard University Press — I couldn’t help but feel heavier. I think a sense of shame washed over me, at first. I felt this guilt crashing down on me, imploding upon me within my dorm room. I wondered, with sickness in my stomach, how I could take pride in attending this institution, how I could carry on a lineage which begins with the subjugation of my people and continues with the feigning of reparation and the commodifying of their pain. I cannot begin to debate the validity and productivity of my shame. That is more than this article has the capacity to take on. But I feel that it’s important for you to know the trail my mind chose — the road that has led me here.
Some weeks ago, I saw a play performed in Mt. Auburn Cemetery: “Moonlight Abolitionists: A Play for the Full Moon,” written and produced by Patrick Gabridge and directed by Megan Sandberg-Zakian. It’s a concert reading which centers six abolitionists: Samuel Gridley Howe, Harriet Jacobs, Joshua Bowen Smith, George and Mary Stearns, and Charles Turner Torrey — all of whom are buried in Mt. Auburn Cemetery. It was at once eerie, unsettling, and deeply moving to watch. The dead seemed to be coming alive before my eyes. Of course, they weren’t. Yet, they were.
Their bodies are beneath my feet. This thought lingered with me, even after I left the cemetery. I was so struck by the concept of the dead coming alive before me, especially those whose stories have been marginalized post-mortem. Eventually the idea faded into a white noise that lay in the back of my mind. It didn’t disappear, but it changed over time. The conception grew beyond the bounds of the cemetery. I began to wonder about other bodies — those whose names and stories have been subsumed by archives of silence and violence.
That was when I turned to Harvard & The Legacy of Slavery Report. Reading it made me feel like I was having a spiritual heart attack. My soul was literally trying to break through my body to escape this campus. I shouldn’t be here. That was all I could think.
“So, too, was slavery integral to Harvard—” was a fact in the report that I was, of course, prepared to confront. “The university and its donors benefited from extensive financial ties to slavery,” — again, nothing surprising.
“These profitable relationships included… the labor of enslaved people on plantations in the Caribbean islands and in the American South.” This was the first big blow. Of course, I knew that this institution’s ties to slavery were interwoven across the American South. But the Caribbean islands was not a region I was prepared to find out had such explicit relevance to the foundations of Harvard. I believe it is the way I was taught about slavery that blinded me. The concept of a benevolent, pro-equality North was often propagated, but for that to stand, one had to erase the enslavement of Caribbean peoples and its tremendous impact on the economic development of the Northeast.
For that to stand, one had to erase my people. My mother’s mother’s mother’s mother and her mother before her were erased as disregarded souls — as unrecognized laborers whose lives and whose bodies Harvard violently oppressed yet neglected to exhume. In my annotations, I wrote: It makes me sick, in a grieving way. In a way that makes me want to know every single enslaved person’s name and every single enslaved person’s story who ever made this place possible.
“The University also profited from its own financial investments, which included loans to Caribbean sugar planters, rum distillers, and plantation suppliers along with investments in cotton manufacturing.” It was a visceral inundation of violence against my ancestry, at the hands of the university I attend. And it was violence that I had never fully understood before now.
Aching and unsatiated by my findings in the Legacy of Slavery report, I then read the Report of the Steering Committee on Human Remains in University Museum Collections.
The Human Remains Report felt different; at points, more gratifying, though it still left much to be desired. I believe that this is, in some sense, the point of a steering committee: to do just enough research to steer others in the right direction.
But the bureaucracy of it all made my blood boil. A committee was formed; their recommendations were for the formation of yet another committee and for the University to do more research. They have found the remains of enslaved peoples. They know a few of their names but they won’t reveal those names to the readers — there is no clear reason why. They will, however, name their enslavers and others who enacted violence against the very Black bodies that they are now in possession of — again, there is no clear reason why.
“I said to put their names,” says Aja Lans, a postdoctoral fellow and researcher for the steering committee. “I argue that this process of anonymizing remains continues to inflict violence on people. Also, if we’re talking about Black people in particular, who were prevented from having their own names and who were enumerated in our slave schedules, I think it’s the completely wrong thing to not have their names,” she says.
She affirmed, however, that one of the committee’s concerns may have been that they felt it necessary to wait until they could tell the individual’s direct descendants about their findings before making the name known to the public. I couldn’t say where I stood on this reasoning, though. It just felt like more archival silence, more anonymity, more burial and hiding of these human beings behind an academic curtain.
Additionally, Lans was herself shortchanged by the bureaucracy of this committee. She did vital provenance research for the report and had her own essay published in it.
“[The essay] was edited for more press-type things by administration, and there’s parts of it where I’m like, ‘I didn’t say it like that,’” Lans says. “There’s parts of it that I think are missing my actual voice.”
At this point, the sickness I felt settled in again. Not offense at the mishandling of this Black woman’s voice. Not fury imagining her finding such changes had been made after the report was already published. Just sickness. It would’ve been hard to pile anger over my grief.
It has been just over six months since the Legacy of Slavery report was published and almost two months since the Human Remains Report was released. On these milestones, I find it fitting to consider both of these reports in a new light. It is imperative to unearth what has occurred post-publication, to think critically about the steps that have been taken and the ones that have been ignored. Ultimately, we must keep these powerful findings from slowly fading into the fog of bureaucracy.
Harvard spokesperson Rachael Dane did not respond to questions about the report or any work currently underway to enact changes based on its recommendations.
The Legacy of Slavery Report has been less silent since publication: those involved with the report have hosted community gatherings, conversations and conferences available to the Harvard community at-large. A few happened in the days following the report and more are to come this semester as well. However, there has been minimal direct communication and collaboration between the committee and the on-campus descendents and communities of those that the report centers — in other words, with African American or Caribbean students on campus.
Soon after the report’s initial release, the Harvard Generational African American Students Association had a formal, internal conversation about the findings. The group is hoping to hold an event with Tomiko Brown-Nagin, dean of the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study, which originally published the report. The Harvard Caribbean Club has not had formal dialogues about the report, internally or with administrators.
“I’ve essentially heard nothing from students who are from the Caribbean talking about this report. Unless it’s a more research sense,” said Jamaal Willis, a sophomore at the College and Social Chair for the Harvard Caribbean Club. “Caribbean students should have some kind of role… we should be included in the conversation, too. In terms of what that might look like, I have absolutely no clue.”
I visited the old burial grounds, across from the Cambridge Commons, some days ago. I wanted to see the gravemarkers of the two enslaved women buried there — Cicely and Jane. Cicely was enslaved by Reverend Minister William Brattle. And Jane by Andrew Bordman Esquire. Cicely was 15 when she died; Jane was 22. I wasn’t able to find Jane’s grave. But just when I had given up on finding either one, I stumbled upon Cicely’s name and it knocked the breath out of me. I sat down next to her, just took her presence in. Her body was literally beneath my feet. I think I learned, then, why we take moments of silence. It gives the brain a moment to ponder: sometimes, what life was with that person. Sometimes, what life could’ve been for that person. And always what life will be without them. But silence cannot last forever. It must be filled.
I found silence as I did my reporting; several of the students, staff, and administrators I spoke to were reluctant or unwilling to go on the record. For what reason I can’t know for certain. Regardless, I felt that people were burying themselves under the dirt — refusing to exhume their truths and neglecting to speak light into the darkness, truth into the silence.
But, next to Cicely, I felt that silence was no longer an option. I wished to hear her voice — and Jane’s, and my mother’s mother’s mother’s, and her mother’s before her — rising up. Until the truth of their lives, of my people, of those whose bodies are beneath my feet, fill the night and the silence. Maybe one day, under moonlight, their stories will be told for all to hear. Maybe one day, Moonlight Ancestors will speak.
Sections
In April, Harvard released its long awaited report on the University’s connections to slavery.
The report, produced by a committee of academics, provided a detailed account of the “integral” role slavery played in shaping Harvard, including as a key source of the school’s wealth. With the release of the report, the Harvard Corporation — the University’s highest governing board — committed $100 million to a Legacy of Slavery Fund established to redress the University’s ties to slavery.
But Brit G. Shrader ’24, a member of the Harvard Prison Divestment Campaign, calls the report’s lack of mention of connections between slavery and the carceral system today a “disgrace.”
Though the report provides recommendations for how to use the fund, any efforts to combat injustice in the prison system are not explicitly outlined in the proposal.
The term “mass incarceration” is included in the report only once — in the 734th footnote. The one-sentence mention acknowledges that mass incarceration is a part of slavery’s legacy and something Harvard’s existing community service engagement “could be expanded” to address. This sentence does not appear until page 116 of the 132-page report.
“That’s such a disgrace to so many people on this campus, but also so many people outside of this campus,” Shrader says.
Radcliffe Institute Dean and Legacy of Slavery Chair Tomiko Brown-Nagin says that the proposals outlined in the report are intentionally broad, according to an article in the Harvard Gazette from April.
“The recommendations are broad because they’re meant to leave plenty of room for meaningful engagement with individuals on campus, with the Harvard Schools, and with community partners who will help shape the work ahead,” she says.
As choices surrounding the use of the Legacy of Slavery fund are discussed, many at the University are thinking about how the institution should address the harms caused by the prison system in the United States — whether through its education within the classroom or outreach beyond its gates.
Today, the United States incarcerates around 2 million people in its prisons and jails. Activists such as Michelle Alexander and Angela Davis have described mass incarceration as a form of “modern slavery,” drawing connections between the country’s history of enslavement and its alleged continuation within prisons today.
Though the 13th Amendment abolished slavery and involuntary servitude within the United States, its language includes a loophole which is heavily exploited today — “except as punishment for crime.” Many activists argue that those five words have enabled the weaponization of mass incarceration as a means of using incarcerated people, and especially Black Americans, for free and forced labor.
People in prisons are typically provided with the bare minimum when it comes to food, clothes, and hygiene supplies — the so-called “three hots and a cot.” Prison wages are unlivable; on average, incarcerated workers earn 13 cents to 52 cents per hour, and wages can remain stagnant for years at a time.
Over the past several decades, HPDC, a student-led abolitionist campaign, has called upon the University to divest its endowment from the prison industrial complex, which HPDC defines as the “set of symbiotic relationships between state capacity, private capital and forms of carcerality in an expanded sense: not just prisons but also parole, occupation, border control, policing, surveillance technologies, etc.”
HPDC calls Harvard’s relation to the prison industrial complex “one of the concrete manifestations of the afterlives of slavery.”
Many of the investments that HPDC has said Harvard had in the prison industry have come through Exchange Traded Funds, bundles of externally-managed funds made up of many individual stocks. The Harvard Management Company, which manages the University’s $50.9 billion endowment, dropped the ETFs from its portfolio in February and has not picked any up since, according to public filings. However the University has not made any public commitment to divestment; it is unclear whether it will invest in ETFs again in the future.
Regardless, HPDC has continued to campaign for further transparency surrounding Harvard’s investments. The vast majority of the University’s endowment is invested through external managers. As a result, only about 2 percent of the school’s investments — the portion managed directly by the Harvard Management Company — are accessible via public filings.
Shrader’s involvement with HPDC is just one of their connections to prison abolition efforts — they have also volunteered with Black and Pink, a prison abolitionist organization focused on the liberation of LGBTQ+ people, and taken courses at Harvard focused on prison abolition for their concentration in Government.
Their interest in criminal justice started with a desire to understand the political and social systems, racial capitalism, and state violence that occur within the country. But the subject is also personal for Shrader.
By the age of two, Shrader was a victim of the carceral state when their father was sentenced to prison. They were 11 when he was released. Shortly after, he was killed at the hands of police officers during a mental health crisis.
“My father has already passed away, but there’s a lot of wonder about what could have been if we had a different system,” Shrader says.
Students and faculty at Harvard have been involved in efforts to reimagine what this system could look like — and what role Harvard does and should play in it. Some activists, like Shrader, have a personal connection to the carceral system. But even those who don’t believe the University has closer ties to incarceration than students may think — both in its historical ties to slavery and its current potential to effect change within prisons.
Many students and faculty members believe that Harvard must acknowledge its position of power and do more to educate its students on how to channel that power for good. But whether Harvard has an obligation to educate students about mass incarceration — and how it should do so — is a question that looms large.
In 1927, 14 years after he graduated from Harvard College, Howard B. Gill founded the Norfolk State Prison Colony — his vision of a “prison without bars.”
He wanted to replicate the environment of a college campus, with shared dormitories, degree programs, and work opportunities. Inmates wore civilian clothes and had opportunities to interact with people outside the prison. They ran a radio show, wrote for their own newspaper, and formed an orchestra.
In 1931, Gill led the push for a debating society within the prison. The group would go on to compete in debates with colleges all over New England, including Boston University, Columbia, MIT, Princeton, Williams, and Gill’s alma mater: Harvard. Between 1936, the year the Debating Society began competing with college students, and 1952, the debaters at Norfolk State Prison Colony won 44 debates and lost 15.
In the late 1940s, the Debating Society welcomed a young man who would later become one of the most famous leaders in the civil rights era: Malcolm Little, also known as “Malcolm X.”
Later, in his 1965 autobiography, Malcolm X would write about his interaction with Harvard students while at the Norfolk State Prison Colony.
“The Norfolk Prison Colony’s library was in the school building. A variety of classes was taught there by instructors who came from such places as Harvard and Boston universities. The weekly debates between inmate teams were also held in the school building. You would be astonished to know how worked up convict debaters and audiences would get over subjects like ‘Should Babies Be Fed Milk?’” he wrote.
Many of the Norfolk debaters had not even earned high school diplomas, the president of the Debating Society told The Crimson in 1952. Out of all the debates, the one at Harvard drew the biggest audience because it “represents the education they never had,” he said.
But by the time the Debating Society began competing with Harvard, Gill had withdrawn from his role as superintendent after a controversy over his leniency in disciplining inmates. The new prison administration eventually abolished all of Gill’s extracurricular programs as national “tough on crime” policies began to set in during the latter half of the 20th century. The Debating Society came to an end.
The U.S. prison population began its sharp rise in the 1980s, increasing from about half a million people in prison to 2.3 million by 2008. Today, the national incarceration rate per 100,000 people is higher than in any other country.
That new wave of mass incarceration undermined the feasibility of Gill’s vision for a rehabilitative, college-like prison. When Gill returned to the Norfolk State Prison Colony in the 1980s, he would ask: “What have they done to my place?”
Today, the prison system in Massachusetts looks much different than in Gill’s day. In Massachusetts at large, the prison population is around 11,200 people — most of them men, and majority people of color. In Suffolk County Jail — the closest jail to Harvard’s campus, only a 15-minute drive away — Black and Hispanic men respectively make up more of the prison population than white men, a disproportionate breakdown compared to the state’s overall demographics.
In MCI-Framingham, the Massachusetts’ women’s prison just 20 miles from Harvard, the poor housing and health conditions starkly contrast the rehabilitative space that the prison once was — a “reformatory” for women who struggled with trauma and substance abuse. In July, Prison Legal Services of Massachusetts published a report detailing allegations of sexual assault committed by prison staff. A state Department of Corrections spokesperson said at the time the agency does not tolerate “any form of sexual abuse or harassment by those living or working within its facilities.”
Today, the Norfolk State Prison Colony is known as the Massachusetts Correctional Institution at Norfolk. In March, the Disability Law Center released a report detailing MCI-Norfolk’s neglect of inmates with disabilities throughout the height of the Covid-19 pandemic. The report outlined concerns about the inadequate testing and protection of inmates, as well as their harsh quarantine conditions.
Whereas once the Norfolk prison could have been called a “prison without bars,” it has distanced itself from that vision. Today, most Harvard students aren’t in nearly as close contact with incarcerated people — they may not even be aware of the current conditions in the campus’s surrounding prisons and jails. But one student group is fighting to preserve that awareness, aiming to open students’ eyes to Harvard’s proximity to the prison industrial complex.
At the Harvard-Yale game, one of the most anticipated student events of the year, members of HPDC seated in the first row of the stadium held up two large banners with the words “PRISONS” and “DIVEST.” Their aim was to disrupt the game just enough to remind students of the ties they say Harvard has to the prison industrial complex with its investments.
In November, HPDC released a new report on Harvard’s endowment in partnership with several other student-led activist groups. The report highlights the coalition’s three main goals: transparency, accountability, and divestment. It also includes a series of case studies which serve as a call to action for further research into where the endowment funds are being allocated.
Harvard previously invested in funds that held investments in private prison operators such as CoreCivic, GEO Group, G4S, and Serco. In 2020, these investments amounted to around $15,000, a small fraction of the endowment.
CoreCivic and GEO Group are two of the largest private prison and detention center operators in the United States. Over the last decade, both have been accused of inmate abuse in their facilities and have faced backlash for opening major contracts with Immigration and Customs Enforcement.
In February 2022, Harvard sold the ETFs in its portfolio.
“The endowment has no direct investments in private prisons and we are not aware of any indirect investments in private prisons by our external managers,” writes Jason A. Newton, a University spokesperson.
But HPDC’s broad definition of the prison industrial complex — which includes any corporation tied to “occupations, prisons, militaries, land grabs, policing, and border control” — allows the group to contend that the University still has ties to the prison system through companies such as Amazon, Blackrock, Western Union, United Health Services, and Primo Water Corp.
Administrators have long said Harvard’s investments shouldn’t be used to make political statements.
“The University should not use the endowment….to achieve political ends or particular policy ends,” President Bacow said in a 2019 interview. “There are other ways that the University tries to influence public policy through our scholarship, through our research, but we don't think that the endowment is an appropriate way to do that.”
But HPDC says in its 2019 report that “divestment is a time-tested form of political action.” The group says the “effectiveness and ethical merit” of this method has been acknowledged by Harvard in the past through its divestment from oil companies in the mid-2000s.
David C. Wood, director of the Initiative for Responsible Investment at the Harvard Kennedy School, explains the nuances of the ethics of divesting endowment funds.
“A lot of people will say that’s politicizing the process,” Wood says about conversations surrounding divestment. “But everyone has some ethical line. The question is where they draw it.”
He adds, “If you have a position to do something like to divest in order to make a political statement that might have some meaning, that seems worth considering.”
While much of the student-led campaign is centered around divestment and endowment transparency, HPDC’s advocacy does not stop there. Some of the group’s pillars are aimed at reparatory investments for people directly impacted by the prison industrial complex and at funding academic projects that employ formerly incarcerated people, organizers, and scholars.
Though HPDC is unique on campus for its focus on the fiscal forms of activism, its education pillar is not HPDC-specific but instead practiced both inside and outside of the classroom.
To Harvard’s credit, the opportunity to learn about mass incarceration and the criminal justice system in the United States is largely accessible through its course catalog. Several classes are offered each semester about U.S. prisons, with topics ranging from abolition to the philosophy of punishment. Shrader says taking courses on prison abolition is “one form of fighting” that, despite being “mediated by Harvard,” is “still valuable.”
Taking place solely on Harvard’s campus, these classes face the challenge of striking the right balance between providing sufficient background about a complex issue and theorizing too much about an unlived experience.
Erin D. Routon, who teaches an Expository Writing 20 course called “Immigration and Incarceration,” researched immigrant detention centers through long term field work for her Ph.D. at Cornell. The course, which she first taught at Cornell, came out of her interest in offering “a chance for students to see this longer view of history of immigrant incarceration.”
“The thing that is important for me about teaching at Harvard — or other Ivies — is the proximity to power and influence that students have and will continue to have for probably the rest of their lives,” Routon says.
But Routon tries to keep class discussions away from “broader theoretical analysis” and instead focuses on exposing students to first-person accounts of incarceration.
“I think because I’m an anthropologist, I tend to frame the course in terms of personal narratives and stories of these experiences,” she says.
Teaching about incarceration within the Expository Writing department at Harvard puts Routon in a somewhat powerful position — the course fulfills a core requirement for freshmen at the College. And “Immigration and Incarceration” is not the only course about imprisonment within the department. R. Hudson Vincent teaches another Expos class titled “Are Prisons Obsolete?” — named after a book by Angela Davis — which is nestled under the Mindich Program of Engaged Scholarship.
The Mindich Program focuses on integrating “civically engaged experiential learning” into Harvard’s academic opportunities. Vincent’s class, for example, brings in local prison rights advocates to speak, some of whom have their own experiences within the carceral system to share.
Grace G. von Oiste ’24, who took Vincent’s class in her first year at Harvard, says the course encouraged her to channel what she learned into action.
“I think that’s why Hudson’s class was really special to me,” von Oiste says. “A lot of people throughout the class asked, ‘What can we do to help?’ And he really gave us, ‘Here, this is what you can do.’”
Vincent re-introduced von Oiste to the Petey Greene Program, a national program she had heard about in high school which offers tutoring to incarcerated and formerly incarcerated individuals. Von Oiste has now been volunteering as a Petey Greene tutor for around two years.
This fall, von Oiste and the other Petey Greene volunteers at the University came together to form a Harvard chapter of the organization with the hope of carpooling to the Suffolk County Jail for tutoring, encouraging other students to join, and supporting each other. Von Oiste serves as the recruitment chair of the new group.
“We do have so much privilege at Harvard and if we’re going to learn, I hope that after we’re done here, or while we’re here, we’ll do something good,” says von Oiste.
Thomas A. Dichter ’08, who teaches a History & Literature course called “Prison Abolition,” shares a similar sentiment. Dichter started his work in the movement as an 18-year-old volunteering with formerly incarcerated activists and prison abolitionists in Porter Square. His work included corresponding with people in solitary confinement, helping with criminal background checks and reform efforts, and running workshops. It wasn’t until he got to graduate school that he considered connecting his activism outside the classroom with his studies in the academy.
“Moving back and forth between the classroom or the more conventionally intellectual spaces and then activist and organizing spaces and work, I think there can be a productive tension there,” Dichter says. “And that is something that I hoped to introduce into the abolition class.”
Initially taught as a seminar course on prison literature, Dichter noticed that most of his students seemed to have been waiting the whole semester to get to one text — once again, Angela Davis’s “Are Prisons Obsolete?” Students demonstrated such an appetite that he dedicated a whole class to prison abolition.
Unlike many theory-centered classes at Harvard, Dichter’s course places an emphasis on the importance of civic action. Although the class was first taught over Zoom in the spring of 2021, students had the opportunity to engage with a wide range of organizations involved in criminal justice reform, such as Black and Pink, the ACLU of Massachusetts’s Racial Justice Program, and the Abolitionist Law Center in Pittsburgh.
As students participate in conversations about what forms of activism are most effective, Dichter asks them to reframe how they think about theory vs. practice.
“Out in the real world, people are doing intellectual work. People are doing theorizing all the time,” he says. “What happens in our classroom spaces — that’s the real world, too. We’re real people who come from communities and are on our way after our time at Harvard to different spaces.”
Every week, William “Willie” Swett ’22, a student at the New England Conservatory, makes his way to Suffolk County’s Nashua Street Jail with his instrument, the bass. He enters a room of around 25 students who are each excited to pick up an instrument and work together to create music, experimenting with different sounds and rhythms.
Around a dozen of these students are from the University. The rest are incarcerated students within the jail. They are all part of the Radcliffe Institute’s “Music and Justice” working group, a new semester-long course in which Harvard students work with students at the I-Can Academy, an educational program within the jail, to create and perform music.
The working group — a type of course which engages University students with topics in law, education, and justice but which is not awarded credit — is a part of the Prison Studies Project, an initiative focused on offering educational opportunities within prisons and jails. Kaia Stern, the co-founder and director of the PSP, co-facilitates the group with Swett and Devon Gates ’23. Their aim is to explore the connection between music and social justice and to consider the role music can play in prison reform and abolition.
Gates says that she hopes the course allows students to connect as “human beings and as musicians first.” The group plans to conclude the class with a concert where students will perform their work — a culmination of their musical collaboration throughout the semester.
Saul A. Glist ’23 has also turned to music as a means of connection to Harvard’s surrounding prison and jail population. After enrolling in “Mass Incarceration and Historical Perspectives” freshman year, Glist became interested in understanding the carceral state as both a form of confinement and source of resistance through music.
While in the process of joining WHRB, Harvard’s radio station, Glist received a letter from someone in prison who expressed feeling comforted hearing Harvard students talk on the radio in real time.
“To feel like someone’s actually listening and like you’re actually making some sort of difference in someone’s life in a positive way, it gives much more of a sense of purpose,” Glist says.
Inspired by this experience, in the fall of 2018, Glist produced a marathon-style musical program for Record Hospital, WHRB’s underground rock department. The subject of his four-hour program was music recorded in prisons. The songs on this carefully curated playlist ranged from Parchman Farm Field recordings to albums made during the ’70s prison reform era to more recent hip hop artists, like Ice Cube, who sampled collect calls in their music.
The letter Glist received wasn’t an anomaly — WHRB has a listener base in prison and occasionally receives fan mail from local penitentiaries, much of which is preserved in WHRB’s archives.
In a 2008 letter, an MCI-Cedar Junction inmate wrote to WHRB about their appreciation for a radio show on the Wu-Tang Clan.
“Being a Big Wu fan, being locked up for a long time, that was big for me and all the guys here, to listen to the old and the new, all the classic stuff,” the sender wrote. “Thank you.”
An email correspondent, Melanie, wrote to WHRB in October about her experience listening to the radio every week at the same time as her boyfriend, who was distanced from her due to his incarceration at MCI-Norfolk at the time.
“Every Saturday night we listen to ‘the darker side’ together, it’s been a huge part of how we can ‘do things together’ during this horrible heartbreaking time,” she wrote.
Though the experiences of Glist, Swett, and Gates have been largely positive, they are also aware of the power they carry as members of an elite institution and its potential for harm.
“There’s a great analogy, which is you come in with this big instrument — the bass — and it’s towering over everyone in the classroom,” Swett says. “And it could be interpreted as a physical symbol for what the power difference is like.”
But Swett hopes that “Music and Justice” does not perpetuate power imbalances — he frames it as not just Harvard students performing to an incarcerated audience, but Harvard and I-Can Academy students working together on the same level to create music.
“The approach we’re trying to take is to not do the thing where a musician just comes in and performs, because that’s been done many times,” Swett says.
Glist similarly believes that his position as a Harvard student gives him a set of privileges that he must reckon with and be mindful of.
“We all have a responsibility based on our social, political and economic positioning to give back to communities that we are a part of and to be a fair, just, and righteous actor in society,” Glist says.
Glist believes that Harvard, as a university, has the same obligation.
“Harvard has a responsibility not to ignore vast populations of people who are incarcerated close by, especially considering its own historical relationship with slavery and an endowment invested in private prisons, and all sorts of other unsavory things,” Glist says. “Harvard has a responsibility to use its vast resources to educate people who could benefit from those resources, and it’s not doing that.”
Students like Swett and Glist are trying to think critically about how they use their educational advantages. The question for Harvard is whether the University is ready to grapple with its power in the same way — and implement prison rights advocacy at an institutional level.
Beyond courses that take place within Harvard, some students argue the University also has an obligation to provide classes within local prisons that would form more direct connections between Harvard and people behind bars.
In the past, Harvard has offered credit to students at the University for courses taken within local prisons through the Prison Studies Project. The PSP, founded by professors Kaia Stern and Bruce Western, focuses on offering for-credit, higher education programs in prisons that connect college students to people behind bars through seminar-style courses. The Harvard students in the PSP’s inaugural seminar in 2008 were part of the first group of students in history to receive college credit for a course taught alongside incarcerated students within the purview of the Massachusetts Department of Corrections. Between 2008 and 2014, PSP offered a number of courses for students from Harvard and incarcerated students at MCI-Norfolk and MCI-Framingham.
Reflecting on her own experience entering a carceral space during her time in college, Stern says: “While I was a college student in a very privileged place, going into a maximum security prison in New York — it just changed my world.”
“It’s one thing to study, to theorize this domination, white supremacy, racial capitalism, or so-called ‘school to prison pipeline,’” Stern says. But it’s another thing, she says, “seeing the faces of folks who can’t afford bail, who haven’t even made it to trial.”
Lauren E. Faraino ’13, a former PSP student, speaks about her experience studying at MCI-Framingham in “Beyond the Gates,” a short film the program produced about the history of prison education at Harvard.
“It was toward the end of the class that Kaia invited one of the students who was incarcerated to share a piece of writing about her experience in solitary confinement, and it was the most difficult thing that I’ve ever heard and probably ever will hear,” Faraino says. “It was a moment of realizing that too many courses, too many conversations talk about issues of incarceration in the abstract, and this brought it home.”
Faraino adds that she believes the University has “an obligation to make those experiences readily accessible to students.”
The “Beyond the Gates” film also outlines a few historical examples of Harvard’s exploitation of people in prison, specifically pointing to studies conducted by University professors that subjected people in prison to unjust experimentation. For instance, during World War II, professors from the Harvard Medical School injected cattle blood to inmates at Norfolk in an effort to develop medical innovations for the United States military. The study, known as the “Norfolk Guinea Pig Experiment,” ended in two deaths.
As an employee of Harvard, Stern not only reckons with the history of the institution and her position within it, but uses it to guide her work in the field of prison education.
“Clearly, there are deep histories and pockets of power here at Harvard. And I'm part of it,” she says.
Stern recounts the words of a woman she met while working at the Department of Corrections in New York in her 20s which shaped the way she thinks about tackling inequality within powerful institutions.
“She said, ‘Kaia, the way you crumble unjust institutions is to be a termite on the inside, and build relationships with other termites,’” Stern says.
This idea of “termite justice,” as Stern calls it, encourages her to continue her advocacy at Harvard and use education as a form of liberation within spaces which she believes are “dehumanizing to everybody.”
“I'm an abolitionist at heart and understand abolition as [more than] tearing down structures that cause harm,” Stern says. “It's also building relationships, building networks of opportunity and care.”
Courses offered through PSP were an example of what building these “networks of care” could look like in practice, but funding for the program dried up in 2014. Though PSP offerings started up again last year through the Radcliffe Institute working groups, University students do not receive credit for these courses.
Meanwhile, at Harvard’s neighboring colleges, prison education is better established and more integrated into the institution. Boston University’s Prison Education Program, which offers BU courses to people in prison, has existed for half a century. At Boston College, faculty similarly teach core curriculum courses to students inside their nearby prison and grant those students transferable credits to the College.
In its scarcity of academic opportunities within local prisons, Harvard comparatively falls behind its fellow institutions. And while professors like Stern have done their part to expand those opportunities, the University itself has yet to define a path forward for making them last.
Though Harvard students have their share of opportunities to engage with education about the criminal justice system, many activists agree that those opportunities are not as expansive as they could be.
The University’s responsibility now is figuring out how to make advocacy efforts easier, and how to support students on a larger scale — by ensuring funding to go toward prison education. As Harvard looks forward to the Legacy of Slavery Fund and imagines ways to pay for its contributions to slavery, perhaps it is time for it to consider if mass incarceration, and efforts to combat it, will be a part of the picture.
In lieu of a more institutional response, prison education and advocacy at Harvard consists of working groups and extracurricular campaigns — often student-led.
Those students are empowered by their work, and acknowledge its value.
“Reckoning with being here, I think one of the best ways to sift through that achiness is to just get involved and put your head down. Don't get petrified by your guilt. Be a part of the change that you want to see,” says HPDC member Kiersten Hash ’25.
But they also express that leading many of the criminal justice advocacy efforts without the University’s support is exhausting.
“I have amazing opportunities to connect with people and to further the work, and if I can use where I am already to do that, that’s what I’m going to do,” says Shrader. “But in practicality, it's hard. It’s really difficult.”
— Associate Magazine Editor Michal Goldstein can be reached at michal.goldstein@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @bymgoldstein.
— Magazine writer Ciana J. King can be reached at ciana.king@thecrimson.com. 
Sections
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Racial justice advocates shared methods to spearhead racial equity and bolster institutional change in a Harvard Institute of Politics forum on Wednesday.
The forum, the last of the fall semester, was part of a larger speaker series on racial justice called “Looking Back, Paying it Forward” jointly hosted by the IOP and the Institutional Antiracism and Accountability Project at the Ash Center for Democratic Governance and Innovation.
Moderated by former Boston mayor Kim M. Janey, the panel featured ​​Gail C. Christopher, executive director of the National Collaborative for Health Equity, and Glenn E. Singleton, founder and president of Courageous Conversation.
Christopher kicked off the event by highlighting what she described as a lack of reckoning with racial injustice in America.
“Over 44 countries in the world have implemented truth and reconciliation processes," she said. "Our country has yet to implement a national truth process."
In response and aiming to spark “transformation of the cultural ethos” in America, Christopher developed the Truth, Racial Healing, and Transformation framework for racial equity. The program focuses on changes in two broad categories: narratives and structures.
“The first is narrative change: understanding that we don't tell the truth about our story. As a country, we don't own up to our history,” she said.
Singleton credited his experience as a graduate student studying the educational system as his impetus for developing the Courageous Conversation protocol for interracial dialogue.
“I discovered inequities in K-12 education — and particularly secondary education — that absolutely astounded me,” he said. “You have all of these students, as you get to the back [of the school], who begin to look like me, who really don't know why they're there.”
“And the big conundrum was that folks in the school could not even talk about these issues,” Singleton added.
He explained that Courageous Conversation is a three-tiered structure aimed at having personally-grounded conversations about racial justice.
“It's not just going to be this intellectual process of how many books you read,” Singleton said. “I want to know your beliefs, I want to know your feelings, I want to know what you're really thinking about and how we're going to act on these things.”
Singleton said it can be useful to refer to examples of successful racial equity initiatives across industries to accelerate the racial justice movement. According to Singleton, drawing attention to these “beacons” also helps hold organizations accountable for their racial justice goals.
“It also puts pressure on those organizations to sustain their work because sometimes they get a bit complacent, particularly when everyone's touting them and giving them all kinds of accolades,” said Singleton.
Christopher concluded the event by saying that racial justice can only be achieved by bringing about a change in personal values.
“We will never transform this country until the majority — or at least 25 percent —of the people have totally rejected the belief in a false hierarchy of humanity,” Christopher said.
“However we get there, we've got to get a maximum number of people who have been liberated from the yoke of racism, but more importantly, have begun to understand and value the love that we as human beings can only give to each other,” she concluded.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In fiscal year 2022, Harvard’s spending was temporarily stifled by staffing shortages and difficulties acquiring goods due to global supply chain challenges, contributing to the school’s $406 million budget surplus — the highest in at least two decades.
But as the United States economy continues to experience record-high inflation, Harvard Chief Financial Officer Thomas J. Hollister said in an interview Wednesday that the University now faces rising costs “across the board” as the school’s expenses are “bouncing back.”
Despite financial headwinds, Hollister said Harvard hopes to avoid passing on the cost of high inflation with tuition hikes.
“Harvard’s worked very hard on student affordability and access and is deeply committed to affordability and need-blind admission at the undergraduate level,” Hollister said. “So that’s not a path anyone would like to pursue.”
Hollister, who is set to step down at the end of the academic year, also said Harvard faces the “very serious concern” of a potential recession in the near future, which would deliver a direct blow to many of the University’s largest revenue streams, including current-use gifts and endowment distributions.
He said managing Harvard’s finances through both a recession and high inflation could be a “double whammy.”
“Either one of them is hard enough,” Hollister said.
Last month, Harvard announced that Hollister will retire at the end of the academic year after eight years as the school’s top financial officer. His departure will come amid a major reshuffling of Harvard’s top brass — including the retirement of University President Lawrence S. Bacow, who is set to depart in June.
Hollister is credited with preparing Harvard well for the financial challenges brought by the pandemic. In 2019, he led recession planning with financial teams across the University to ensure the school was ready in the event of an economic downturn.
This summer, Harvard Executive Vice President Meredith L. Weenick ’90 took over for Katherine N. Lapp, who oversaw the University’s campus services, finances, and administration for over a decade. Harvard Alumni Association Executive Director Philip W. Lovejoy is also set to step down at the end of the calendar year. Two academic deans are also set to depart in the coming months.
Despite the many departures, Hollister said he is not concerned with the turnover in Harvard’s central administration.
“Harvard is deep with talent, and a natural turnover of leaders is to be expected,” he said. “As challenging and difficult as the pandemic was, I think it’s unleashed new energies and new possibilities for the future in lots of respects.”
—Staff writer Eric Yan can be reached at eric.yan@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @ericyan0.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Ieva Jusionyte, a Maury Green Fellow at Harvard’s Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study, discussed the impact of the United States gun industry on violence in Mexico at a virtual event hosted by Radcliffe on Wednesday.
The presentation, titled “Exit Wounds: American Guns, Mexican Lives and the Vicious Circle of Violence,” focused on research Jusionyte gathered for an upcoming book on the United States’ role in the present-day conditions of Mexico. The book, “Exit Wounds,” will be published in 2024.
Jusionyte, a professor of international security and anthropology at Brown University, started the presentation with a story about a 2009 gun battle between Mexican federal authorities and an armed group associated with the drug cartel Los Zetas. The machine guns recovered by authorities after the shooting were made and sold in the United States.
To depict the size of the bullets used in the shooting, Jusionyte lined up a sharpie marker on her podium as she spoke.
“If guns and their calibers is a new language to you, I understand — it was new to me too,” she said. “Before I saw the guns, I saw the wounds.”
Jusionyte spent several years as a paramedic at the border. It was during this time that she realized the cycle of violence perpetrated by the failure of the U.S. border patrol to stop the smuggling of guns into Mexico from the United States.
She also walked through the history of colonization and guns in both Mexico and the United States, comparing how each country’s constitution led to the smuggling issue seen today.
“Like in the United States, gun ownership in Mexico is a constitutional right,” Jusionyte said. “But unlike in the United States, where the gun lobby has been able to use the weakness of the Second Amendment to block laws regulating gun ownership, in Mexico, this right is not absolute.”
Jusionyte also said the United States is complicit in making large-caliber weapons more attainable for Mexican smugglers. Since the smugglers work for organized crime groups, she said, they are able to give their groups these weapons, which rival those of the Mexican federal security force.
“It is impossible to talk about gun trafficking without also talking about the drug economy,” she added.
Mexico attempted to sue 10 U.S. gun manufacturers in 2021 for “their contribution to the epidemic of gun violence.” But because of the Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act, which shields gun makers from civil liability for harm done by their products, the lawsuit was dismissed.
In her book, she discusses this issue through the stories of people affected by the trafficking crisis.
“I hope that ‘Exit Wounds’ enables more people to understand this vicious circle of violence and insecurity,” she said. “Although firearms injure and kill individuals, gunshot wounds reverberate through the community like a starburst.”
“The impact of the bullet exceeds the punctures and scars it leaves on the human body, penetrating social fabric, creating collective damage shared by families, communities, entire regions, past from present to future generations,” Jusionyte added.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
During his freshman year, Luke T. Balstad ’25 loved staring out his dorm room window in “contemplative silence,” his friend Annabelle H. Krause ’25 recalled.
As he looked out from his room in the Harvard Inn, he would often greet his peers who passed by below.
“Luke was always waving to people out the window and inviting them upstairs to hang out or having screaming conversations out the window,” Krause wrote in an email.
Balstad’s habit reached the point where he had to affix notes to his window to remind himself to stay focused on his schoolwork.
“He had to put up these post-its to keep himself on track because he was such a happy and social person that there was no doubt that he would end up with a slew of people in his room if he stared out the window too long,” Krause wrote.
Balstad, a Quincy House sophomore, was born in Tucson, Arizona, and grew up in Michigan. He graduated from Hudsonville High School in Hudsonville, Michigan, in 2021, before enrolling at Harvard.
Balstad died by suicide while at home in Michigan on Nov. 14. He was 19.
In lieu of flowers, Balstad’s family is collecting donations for the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention and the National Alliance on Mental Illness.
Balstad’s friends, family, and teachers remember him as a uniquely thoughtful, kind, and brilliant person who brightened the lives of those around him. He was passionate about self-care and helping others, hoped to become a doctor, and loved the outdoors.
“Luke was so incredibly special,” Krause wrote. “I actually do not know how to put into words all that Luke was. He was probably the kindest person I will ever know.”
Ava K. Pallotta ’25 recalls meeting Balstad for the first time freshman year and being impressed by how put-together he was: By the time they sat down for breakfast in Annenberg Hall at 8 a.m., Balstad had gone on a full run and gotten ready for the day.
Pallotta, one of Balstad’s close friends and blockmates, said one of Balstad’s “defining characteristics” was the way he supported his friends.
“I never took a test at Harvard that he didn’t wish me good luck for, there was never a play that I was in that he didn’t show up with flowers for,” Pallotta said. “He would surprise me with coffees all the time, just sweet texts encouraging me.”
Landon J. Cooley-Themm, who met Balstad in high school, said he brought a “very calming presence” to those around him.
“Luke was the type of person that when he walked in the room, and if you weren’t looking at the door, or you didn’t see him come in, you knew he was there,” Cooley-Themm said. “He just presented so much kindness, so much light to everybody who was around and who he talked to.”
Isabella M. Tillotson, who befriended Balstad when he moved to Michigan in third grade, said he was a “formative part” of her life.
Each day after high school, the two would drive around in Balstad’s car, which was “worth $500 and broke down every five minutes,” Tillotson recalled.
“It was a lot of driving, and drinking iced coffee. And that was enough for us. We just talked, and we talked about things that didn’t matter. We talked about things that matter so much,” Tillotson said. “And we made our plans for what our lives were going to look like together.”
Sydney A. Balstad, his older sister, said she and her brother were “twin flames.”
Once, when they were little — to avoid being apart, even for just a few minutes — the siblings taped themselves together.
“We were sick of having to go get water and separate from each other,” Balstad said. “So we got tape, and we taped water bottles to ourselves, and then taped ourselves to each other so that we would never have to be apart even to get water.”
Balstad had many friends and was close with his family, his mother, Kimberly Van Antwerp, said.
“He loved, loved his friends so much — talked about each one of them,” Van Antwerp said. “His family meant the world to him.”
Christopher A. Bolhuis, Balstad’s cross country coach and science teacher at Hudsonville High School, described Balstad as “one of the nicest, most kind, intelligent, deep,” students he taught in his nearly three-decade-long career.
“He wanted to know how things worked, and he was just that rare combination that was able to combine this just unbelievable intellect with a curiosity to match it,” Bolhuis said.
According to Bolhuis, Balstad was a “natural leader” and “one of the most involved students” to ever attend the high school.
“Luke was just genuinely kind to everybody,” Bolhuis said. “Everybody loved this kid.”
Lauren D. Wedge — who taught Balstad German at Hudsonville High School for four years — said Balstad was deeply dedicated to his extracurricular activities, including marching band, an environmental volunteer group, a student leadership organization, and student council.
“He was the most well-rounded student that I had ever met,” Wedge said. “He never failed to follow through with a task — he did all of these things but did not ever drop the ball.”
Van Antwerp, Balstad’s mother, said his acceptance to Harvard — his “lifelong dream” — was unprecedented and “incredible.” She recalled Balstad receiving news of his acceptance to Harvard and their family’s subsequent celebration with a bottle of champagne.
“When he popped the cork, it shot up and broke a light fixture,” she said. “We left it like that probably for a year or two afterwards because we couldn’t bear to think about that memory being lost.”
Bolhuis, who said Balstad was just the second student from Hudsonville High School to be accepted to Harvard, was nevertheless “not surprised” by Balstad’s admission.
“I've been teaching for 26 years, and this is the one student that I’ve had that I thought, ‘He’s going to change the world,’” Bolhuis said. “I wrote him a letter of recommendation to get into Harvard, and I said that this is the best student, best person — the best everything — that I’ve ever, ever taught.”
Balstad was deeply passionate about making the world a better place, his friends and family remembered.
Tillotson recalled Balstad’s advocacy for environmentalism, LGBTQ+ rights, the Black Lives Matter movement, and other social justice causes. In addition, Balstad fed unhoused people in Grand Rapids, Michigan, and volunteered for the Harvard Square Homeless Shelter as a college student.
“He was passionate about making sure that everybody felt included. And he really valued individuality and was very interested in making sure that everybody felt valued, no matter their unique characteristics,” Tillotson said. “He was the type of person who would never let somebody sit alone.”
“He was passionate about people, and making sure that they had what they needed to succeed and thrive and feel comfortable and valued,” she added.
Van Antwerp said Balstad aspired to be a surgeon and even owned an IV kit and suture kit in middle school. In recent years, however, Balstad became increasingly outspoken about mental health awareness.
“That was where his heart was,” Van Antwerp said. “He recently shared, too, that he thought maybe not being a surgeon — maybe he wanted to go be a psychiatrist or do something with mental health awareness.”
Wedge recalled Balstad’s mental health advocacy work during his time as student council president in high school.
“He confided in me that year that he was struggling with his mental health, and he just cared very deeply about people inside and outside of the classroom,” Wedge said.
Pallotta said while people are sometimes “described differently in life and death,” this is not the case for Balstad.
“He was just a really beloved figure. And the world’s a better place because he was here,” Pallotta said. “Harvard’s a better place because he was here, but his presence and the light he brought to campus is just absolutely going to be missed.”
***
If you or someone you know needs help at Harvard, contact Counseling and Mental Health Services at (617) 495-2042 or the Harvard University Police Department at (617) 495-1212. Several peer counseling groups offer confidential peer conversations. Learn more here.
You can contact a University Chaplain to speak one-on-one at chaplains@harvard.edu or here.
You can also call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 988 or text the Crisis Text Line at 741741.
—Staff writer Vivi E. Lu can be reached at vivi.lu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @vivielu_.
—Staff writer Leah J. Teichholtz can be reached at leah.teichholtz@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @LeahTeichholtz.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard Indonesian Students Association launched a fundraiser last week to provide disaster relief following the recent earthquake in Cianjur, Indonesia, which killed hundreds.
Leonardo Kamilius, a Harvard Kennedy School student and member of HISA, said the fundraising initiative aims to aid those affected by the earthquake.
“The most important is those who help on the ground with providing the basic needs for the displaced people,” Kamilius said.
“We feel that responsibility, as Indonesians, to also become a bridge for people who care and want to support here — so they can really support people on the ground,” he added.
A 5.6 magnitude earthquake struck western Indonesia on Nov. 22, displacing more than 58,000 people.
Shabari Nair, an HKS student who donated to the fundraiser, said he was motivated in part by his own identity.
“I certainly come with a very strong identity of being from the Global South,” he said. “I felt it was important that we need to certainly stand together if somebody is affected from a region that we consider to be in the neighborhood.”
“It was only right that we come together for a situation which we could also be affected by at some point,” Nair added.
While HISA has no specific fundraising target, Kamilius said, the organization has reached $3,200 in donations and will continue to solicit donations until the fundraising window closes on Dec. 9.
“One dollar that we can donate translates to about 15,000 rupiah, and that could translate into two hot meals for the victims,” Kumiliah said.
American donors can contribute to the fundraiser through Venmo, and donors from Indonesia can send funds to a local bank account. HISA members have been promoting the fundraiser via WhatsApp group chats and word of mouth.
The presidents of HISA, Tiara Amalia Puteri and I Ketut Adi Putra Kusnadi, said they partnered with local organizations to help “fellow Indonesians.”
“We are working with trusted humanitarian organizations on the ground that would channel the funds to provide shelters, foods, and medications for those affected,” they wrote in a text message.
The presidents said HISA will use a crowdfunding platform to identify and select local NGOs to which they will donate their funds.
Gabrielle Kembuan, the HISA communications director, said the donation window might be extended based on reported need.
“We actually have people at the refugee camps who are assessing whether they still need basic goods and stuff there,” she said. “So depending on the needs, and whether the government there actually has enough response to provide everything, we might open the donations for longer.”
—Staff writer Dekyi T. Tsotsong can be reached at dekyi.tsotsong@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Human rights experts in a Harvard Law School panel on Wednesday discussed how the United Nations has responded to violations of children's rights during global armed conflict.
The panelists examined the UN’s attempts to hold governments and non-state actors accountable for rights violations. Law professor Gerald L. Neuman, Director of the Human Rights Program at HLS, moderated the event, which featured Benyam D. Mezmur, a law professor at the University of the Western Cape in South Africa; Jo Becker, advocacy director of the children’s rights division at Human Rights Watch; Allan Rock, former Canadian Ambassador to the UN in New York; and Yanghee Lee, founding President of the International Child Rights Center.
Mezmur, a fellow at the Law School, discussed the vast scope of the issue, citing research by the Peace Research Institute Oslo that found approximately 449 million children — more than 1 in 6 — were living in a conflict zone.
Mezmur also talked about the “six grave violations” against children the UN reports occur during armed conflicts: killing and maiming, sexual violence, attacks on schools and hospitals, abduction, military recruitment, and denial of humanitarian access.
Becker talked about the history of the UN Security Council’s involvement in children’s affairs during armed conflict. She pointed to the UN Security Council passing a 1999 resolution that recognized wartime children’s rights violations as an international security threat.
“Since then, [the Security Council]’s adopted a dozen resolutions over time that have created an architecture that is really unlike anything else at the UN,” Becker said.
Becker added that there are currently 60 governments and non-state actors on the “List of Shame,” a list of parties whom the Secretary-General declares guilty of the six grave violations.
According to a resolution passed by the UN Security Council, parties are deemed responsible for children’s rights violations if they demonstrate patterns of repeated infractions — a criteria Rock said he found "rather vague."
“There’s no detailed definition of what is a pattern of grave violations involving sexual violence or attacks on schools and hospitals,” he said.
Rock then described an incident where Saudi Arabia threatened to withdraw funding from the UN if it was not removed from the list, prompting the Secretary-General to launch a review of the nation's inclusion on the list.
Rock said this incident “called into question the integrity of the program.”
“After all, if someone can get their name removed from the list of shame, by threatening reprisals against the United Nations, then what’s the credibility of the list and what is its value?” he said.
The UN did not respond to a request for comment on Wednesday evening.
Mezmur, who was a member of the Eminent Persons Group, an independent body tasked with reviewing the UN Secretary-General’s decisions regarding the “List of Shame,” said the group provided recommendations to the Secretary-General to ensure that future iterations of the list are “more credible, objective, and evidence-based.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard men’s and women’s squash teams trekked north to Hanover, N.H.to face Ivy League rival Dartmouth on November 30th, dispatching their competition in dominant fashion.
Both teams won with relative ease, closing out Dartmouth without a single Crimson player losing a match on either side, posting symmetrical 9-0 match scores and keeping their undefeated records alive.
Beating Dartmouth, who boasts the No. 12 ranked men’s team(1-1) and No. 10 ranked women’s team(0-2) in the NCAA, signals positive signs for Harvard at this early point in the season for both the Crimson men’s(4-0) and women’s(2-0) teams.
“Playing at Dartmouth is never easy,” said assistant coach Hameed Ahmed.  “Our men actually lost their luster a few years ago in a very, very close match.  It’s always at the same time of the year, so it's an early match for us in the season. We always take it very seriously.”
The No. 2 ranked and defending NCAA champion women’s squad, in defeating Dartmouth, extended its unbeaten streak to 100 matches, capitalizing this accomplishment by winning every individual match without dropping a single game.
This historic mark undoubtedly displays the strength of the Crimson but also fuels the team with motivation to keep its streak going against its toughest competition in the future.
“It's been wonderful to be a part of it,” Ahmed said. “What it really means is that we have a target on our back.  And that means that our preparation, in particular our mental preparation, needs to be solid.”
“There's definitely more pressure given that we have such a long streak of winning,” junior Marina Stefanoni said. “But it also makes it exciting now that it's a bit more competitive.”
Stefanoni, who plays at the first position for Harvard and will be a contender for the NCAA individual title, won her match against Dartmouth No. 1 Claire Aube handily, cruising to victory in straight games of 11-3, 11-8, 11-3.
The Crimson then clinched the victory in 5 matches, which win was made possible through the strong play at positions two through five from sophomore Habiba Eldfrawy, first-year Saran Gregory-Nghiem, junior Serena Daniel, and sophomore Brecon Welch.
Senior Charlotte Orcutt, first-year Molly Stoltz, junior Binney Huffman, and sophomore Emma Carney also won their matches for Harvard.
Clustered in a top tier including Trinity, Yale, Princeton, and Drexel, the women’s squad will have its work cut out to continue its undefeated streak and will face all four schools later in the season.
Postseason execution, however, remains the team's ultimate goal.
“We definitely want to win all of our matches and go into nationals,” Stefanoni said. “We were seeded at No. 2 in the preseason rankings, which hasn't happened in a while. We've won in the past most of the time, so we got a little fire in our belly. Definitely, that's our goal: to win nationals.”
On the men’s side, the top ranked and defending champion Crimson team breezed past Dartmouth, led by the strong play of 2020 NCAA individual champion Marwan Farek, who defeated Dartmouth number one Jack Bell in straight sets, 11-6, 11-7, 11-6.
In his first year of being Harvard’s true number one position scorer, Farek reflected on the importance and leadership behind being the top player for college squash’s most historic program.
“Playing as No. 1 on the Harvard team throughout history is a high position that everyone dreams of playing in, and it comes with a lot of responsibility,” Farek said.  “It's not always about winning, but it's also about showing up everyday at practice and big matches and big moments and leaving it all out there, and that's something I always have in the back of my mind every time I put on my shoes and hold my racket.”
Farek will compete to reclaim his individual title this NCAA postseason after failing to repeat in the 2022 season.
The men’s squad, like the women’s, won in dominant style, dropping only one game through its rout of Dartmouth.  Senior George Crowne, first-year David Costales, junior Ido Burnstein, and sophomore Tate Harms closed Dartmouth out in the first five matches played.  First year Ishant Shah, and sophomores Ayush Menon, Neel Joshi, and Conner Stoltz won the other matches played for the Crimson.
As the season progresses, the team will keep its eyes glued on defending its NCAA title while also seeking redemption at the Ivy League Championship, having lost in 2022 to Penn before going on a run to win the big dance at NCAAs.
“We have one goal at the end of the season, which is to win nationals,” Farek said. “We have known that goal since day one; this has always been our mentality: to defend our title.  Personally I would like to do well in the Ivy league, as we dropped the Ivy League title last year to Penn.  If we ended up as a team being Ivy League Champions and national champions, that would be such a successful season.”
The Crimson teams now move to battle UVA, which has teams ranked in the top 10 on both sides, on Friday, December 2nd.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
It creates a certain amount of cognitive dissonance when we find ourselves, at a hallowed institution, co-existing with vermin. They shit, for one thing, and we do not want to live in buildings where shit is not swiftly flushed into some larger body of water. This is fair. Additionally, their mere existence inspires in us a fear predating the Black Plague, and we cannot be blamed for our human instincts.
But we must admit that rats, in a Kondo-ian sense, are necessary. For some, they spark joy. During the Head of the Charles, I was walking on Mt. Auburn St. trying to avoid tourists, when one lady who managed to cross my path noticed me dodging a sizable rat.
“Was that a giant rat?!” The question sounded like an existential plea; she was incredulous that we would tolerate such a thing.
“Yep,” I said, making quick, proud eye contact before scampering to my dorm. I couldn’t help but feel pride that my psyche was impervious to something so disturbing to her. “A rat is no big deal,” I thought. “I see them every day.”
And indeed I do, especially as it gets darker earlier. We live in a city, after all. It’s comforting to watch a rat frolic through a decrepit stone wall as I take a quieter alley from Mass Ave to Mount Auburn. Their unwarranted hurry makes mine feel more worthwhile. Even the tiny creatures of Harvard get things done. Like our men in suits, even our rats have their clubs — I often see them outside our beloved 14 Plympton St.
Why, after all, do we hate rats but love squirrels? A squirrel is a rat wearing a Canada Goose jacket. Cantabrigian rats probably far outnumber Cantabrigian squirrels, and yet tourists take photos of one and shriek at the other. Have they not the same illnesses, the same temperaments, the same size? Just because only one species has a propensity for climbing trees does not mean that they are inherently better than the other.
I feel solidarity with the rats.  They walk the same streets we do. They live in the same buildings. They eat the same food, as we have seen in many of our dhalls. Rats fight each other, they have turf, they ostensibly copulate. I bet rats have imposter syndrome too.
In the old ideal of Harvard, rats were conspicuously absent. But today, rats are here. They have clawed their way to the Ivy League in a way not so dissimilar from our own aspiring academics.
In a way, are we not all the rats of Harvard?
