News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Swiss Ice Hockey Federation announced on Thursday that Harvard senior forward Keely Moy would join its women's hockey roster for the 2022 Olympic Winter Games in Beijing, marking her first Olympic selection.
“It’s a surreal feeling,” Moy said. “Getting the call that I made the Olympic team was definitely one of the best moments of my life, and telling my family and then my team was an incredible feeling as well.”
Moy is grateful to her family for shaping her as a hockey player. Moy grew up in a hockey family. Her brother, Tyler Moy ‘17, played Men’s Ice Hockey at Harvard and currently plays professionally for Genève-Servette HC in the Swiss Hockey League. Moy’s father, Randy Moy, was a Division I hockey player at Western Michigan University and also coached at the Division I and III levels.
In July 2020, Moy’s dad passed away from cancer. Her father was an important figure in shaping her skills and passion for hockey.
“My dad has given me almost every single lesson I’ve ever taken, and everything I know about hockey is because of him,” Moy said. “I miss my dad and think about him every day and every time I step on the ice.”
Moy’s mother also played a crucial role in her participation at the Olympics. Although Moy lives in San Diego, California, her mother hails from Lucerne, Switzerland, so Moy was able to obtain Swiss citizenship. Despite living in America, Moy still feels a strong connection to Switzerland.
“I didn’t grow up in Switzerland, but it has always felt like my home and I have always felt very connected to the country through my close relationships with my mom and grandmother,” she said.
Moy also credited her coaches and teammates at Harvard for contributing to her development as a player and a person.
“Team First has always been the most important part of playing hockey here at Harvard, and I feel super fortunate that I have coaches who have helped shape my character as well as my hockey skill,” she said.
To prepare for Beijing, Moy is studying film, practicing and working out every day with the Crimson, and ensuring her body is in optimal condition.
“I feel incredibly fortunate to be able to represent Switzerland,” Moy said. “I hope to make the country proud and bring back a medal to Switzerland!”
—Staff writer Derek Hu can be reached at derek.hu@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
