Sections
“I think you should consider seeking therapy,” I said to a friend, midway through a conversation that would end disastrously.
We were sitting on the couch in our common room, like we did most nights. It was late; I was tired. The pauses between beats in our conversation lengthened into heavy silences, disturbed by the occasional hallway door slammed shut.
She was struggling with anxiety related to a problem that would likely persist for the next month, one beyond either of our abilities to fix. I cycled through the usual, trite suggestions: getting more sleep, taking it easy with work, talking with her family. All were summarily dismissed. Finally, I suggested therapy because I couldn’t think of any other way to help her.
Immediately she grew reticent and eventually visibly angry. She accused me of implying that she was incapable of managing her own problems. I was aggressive and uncompromising in disabusing her of this notion, which I saw as internalized stigma toward mental health. “Other people can get therapy,” she insisted, “but it’s not for me.” We didn’t get anywhere.
Eventually she got to the root of what upset her: She believed that I had suggested therapy because I felt burdened by her emotions. “I’ll stop talking about this,” she offered — the opposite of what I wanted. But that conversation would be one of the last times she opened up to me about her mental health. It marked the inflection point in a gradual distancing.
My impulse to suggest therapy has haunted me ever since. I recommended therapy to her without any idea of what it would entail: how long it might take her to get it, what treatment she could receive from Harvard, if it would be effective. I only knew that she shouldn’t be ashamed to talk about it.
We had lived together for months before the pandemic, Zoomed everyday during it, and lived together after. Now, she has stopped speaking to me entirely.
It makes me wonder: What kind of care do we owe our peers? How do the lines between peer and caregiver blur? And on Harvard’s campus, what does it look like to get help?
***
At this point, we know beyond a doubt: The kids are not alright.
Over the past few decades, mental health problems, especially among young people, have reached epidemic levels. As Howard E. Gardner ’65 and Wendy Fischman, two researchers at the Harvard Graduate School of Education, write in their new book “The Real World of College,” mental health is the defining issue on college campuses, and it has been for the last ten years.
Rates of depression, anxiety, and serious suicidal ideation among college students have doubled over the last decade. A 2020 report authored by Harvard’s Task Force on Managing Student Mental Health found that from 2014 to 2018, the percentage of undergraduates who said they struggled with depression jumped from 22 percent to 31 percent, and for anxiety, from 19 percent to 30 percent. Only 34 percent of students reported feeling comfortable seeking professional help for emotional problems. (The report names several issues likely contributing to poor mental health, including overwork, loneliness, competitive extracurricular activities, imposter syndrome, and stigma against seeking help.)
Nationwide, the Covid-19 pandemic only increased this burden — which hasn’t lessened even though pandemic restrictions have eased. The Harvard Kennedy School’s Institute of Politics’s recent Youth Poll reports that more than half of young people continue to experience feelings of depression and hopelessness, with no statistical differences based on age, race, or ethnicity.
At Harvard, Counseling and Mental Health Services is the Harvard University Health Services division devoted to providing mental health support and resources. But some students have taken to social media and publications to decry CAMHS’s failures to meet student needs.
A recent post on Harvard Confessions, an anonymous student Facebook forum, details the agonizing process of trying to find a therapist through CAMHS: “It has been the most frustrating, confusing process to get one. I have tried all their services meanwhile but every single interaction has been awful… I’m tired of this process, I just want help.” While I can’t corroborate the experience of the source, the post is representative of broader anti-CAMHS social media discourse. At a 2018 town hall, following an incident in which the Cambridge Police Department arrested a Black Harvard student in need of mental health care, students upset with long wait times demanded CAMHS hire more therapists; in March of this year, The Crimson reported that the wait time for new patients to book an appointment was about 6 weeks.
Students have also alleged that CAMHS is not racially diverse enough in its staffing and resources. In 2015, just one quarter of CAMHS counselors were people of color, prompting Black students organizing for social change to demand the “expedited hiring of more Black and Brown counselors.” Last year, following a rise in anti-Asian violence nationwide, CAMHS faced backlash over its “Anti-Asian Racism Resources” page, which told Asian American students that “you may wish that you weren’t Asian, but remember that your ancestors likely went through similar or even worse incidents.”
Despite these criticisms, students are, at least in my experience, still quick to recommend seeking CAMHS or trying therapy in general. Over meals and brain breaks, in common rooms and libraries, I’ve heard CAMHS offered as a next step. Discussion around therapy on campus rarely extends past this, rendering CAMHS either a scapegoat or a catch-all solution for anyone struggling. This obscures the actual process of obtaining therapy, as well as the full range of mental health infrastructure on campus — let alone what the future of mental health care could or should look like.
Before writing this piece, I had never been to therapy myself, nor had I ever felt like I needed it — but I had recommended it to other people, like my friend. While I have my share of social and academic challenges, I am fortunate in that I haven’t been affected severely by mental health issues. As a consequence, it occurred to me that I would only think to seek mental health resources for myself when I imminently needed them, at which point the resources might be too little, too late.
In an effort to lift the veil on mental health infrastructure on campus, I went through all the steps of seeking support — CAMHS, private therapy, peer therapy organizations, and broader spirituality and wellness oriented spaces — to comprehensively evaluate the full network of care available. (I went through the motions of obtaining resources that were zero-sum, like CAMHS and private therapy, but did not actually use them, lest I be taking them away from someone who needed them.)
The irony in this project is that I could only go through all these steps of seeking care because I was mentally well enough to try and had the time to dedicate to it, which is likely not the case for many students. I also can’t represent students struggling with severe mental illness through my own experiences, nor is that my intention. I am just one person, but I believe my efforts can help illuminate what it takes to get mental health care and what that care actually looks like in practice.
In addition to taking a critical eye to current resources, I also sought students and faculty who have visions of what the future of therapy, and mental health care more broadly, might look like on campus. What would accessible, meaningful, comprehensive mental health care at Harvard entail? How can our existing services be used in concert to provide a more tailored safety net for students? And what responsibility does the University have in providing this network of care?
***
To evaluate existing resources, I started with what many students see as the first line of defense: CAMHS.
CAMHS provides one-on-one counseling, as well as workshops, listicle-style advice, and referrals to local therapists. As per its mission statement, CAMHS aims to “respond quickly and in proportion to the student’s or administrator's expressed need” and “collaborate with the student to create and implement a plan that allows for increased perspective, growth and a return to a level of functioning most likely to promote success at Harvard."
As of March, CAMHS employed 36 clinicians trained to offer a variety of treatments, from trauma-informed therapy to Cognitive Behavioral Therapy, a form of talk therapy meant to help the patient identify and respond to inaccurate or negative patterns of thinking. CBT is used for anxiety, depression, and insomnia, some of the most common conditions that affect students.
This past fall, over 3,000 students had clinical appointments with CAMHS. In July of 2021, CAMHS also launched CAMHS Cares, a 24/7 support line for students who needed urgent care. During the pandemic, as demand for therapy rose, the support line was receiving hundreds of calls a month.
To make a CAMHS appointment, Harvard students must go through the HUHS portal and book a phone consultation.
It takes me an embarrassingly long period of clicking to get to this booking portal — I only use HUHS about once a year to upload my immunization forms.
After specifying that I’m not a varsity athlete, I reach the mental health question:
“In a few words, let us know your concern [30 char limit]”
I start typing “In the last few weeks” and realize the severity of the limit. It seems impossible to fit anything detailed or cogent in the response box. I decide to leave it at “anxiety and stress.”
But when I try to book a consultation, the earliest one available is on May 3, and the earliest I can feasibly make is on May 5: three weeks away. And that’s just the consultation — presumably there would be another intervening period between the consultation and actually receiving therapy. Most of the things on my mind — the housing lottery, final assignments, summer deadlines — would have to be resolved well before then. I would be lucky if I got therapy before the end of the semester.
I close out the tab.
***
For me, this long wait time was a nuisance; for others, it can be a serious barrier to accessing needed care.
After struggling with “lots of anxiety” throughout freshman year, Lauren V. Marshall ’22 tried to get a CAMHS appointment at the beginning of her sophomore year. She made an appointment through the CAMHS portal online, but their earliest availability was a month or two away — and again, that was just for the consultation.
“I thought it would be the first appointment,” she says. “They didn’t make that clear.”
After her consultation, CAMHS connected her with a therapist, but then Covid-19 happened, and that resource evaporated. A year later, when she came back to campus, Marshall finally contacted the therapist.
Even then, she decided to stop after only a few appointments. Her therapist, likely using some form of CBT, expected a lot from her, she says. It was a style of therapy she didn’t believe was benefiting her. “I’m not good at asking for help, and the therapist put that burden on me,” she says. She feels an irony in this: “My stress was having too much to do. If the solution is doing more stuff, that’s not ideal,” she says. She sought therapy for her stress, but the time-consuming, bureaucratic process of getting it only added to that stress, and the form of the therapy wasn’t compatible with her needs.
According to Barbara Lewis, the chief of CAMHS, the average number of CAMHS appointments a patient receives is about four, suggesting that even for students who do score an appointment, CAMHS therapy is not a long-term solution.
Lewis is explicit about this, describing CAMHS as “short-term solutions focused,” although students are not automatically assigned the same number of appointments. According to the CAMHS website, “Some students feel benefits after one to six sessions, others need more time.”
But Lewis says she’s “not content” with wait times and overall student satisfaction, and that CAMHS is working on implementing the recommendations of the 2020 Mental Health Task Force. She also emphasizes the success and low wait times of the CAMHS Cares line.
“Just talking to someone in that moment staves off a crisis,” she says. (Personally, I didn’t try the hotline, as part of my commitment to not using zero-sum resources.)
CAMHS does offer same-day urgent appointments for students in crisis, as well. “If students need to be seen in-person, we will get them in,” Lewis says.
But for non-urgent cases — anyone in mild to moderate distress, like me — you can’t count on getting a CAMHS appointment quickly, trying to get one is itself taxing, and there’s no guarantee that the care will be quite what you need.
***
It’s a familiar refrain: If Harvard has so much money, why don’t we just hire more therapists?
To get an answer to this, I spoke with Steven E. Hyman, a biology professor who served as the University provost from 2001 to 2011. He also led the National Institute of Mental Health from 1996 to 2001.
During his tenure as provost, he observed that campus mental health issues were “overwhelming for us and all of our peer universities.” A 2004 investigation by The Crimson had found that almost half of Harvard undergraduates had experienced depression that inhibited their daily function, prompting students to criticize the inadequate supply of mental health resources.
But according to Hyman, beefing up the supply of therapists ran up against a budget constraint — the University could only afford to hire a limited number of mental health professionals without raising the Student Health Fee. Required for all registered students enrolled more than half-time in Massachusetts, the Student Health Fee covers HUHS services — like CAMHS, flu clinics, and alcohol and drug services — in lieu of insurance, says Lewis. It stands at $1,304 for the 2022-2023 academic year, a marginal increase from the last few years.
Under this funding structure, the cost of hiring more therapists could come directly out of students’ pockets. “There was a concern about the total cost to students who were healthy,” Hyman says. “It’s just really hard to free up money internally.”
Lewis suggests CAMHS is looking for other sources of funding, but she would not elaborate on what these might be.
Since Hyman’s years as provost, shortages have persisted, and reports show student mental health has deteriorated — trends the pandemic only exacerbated. On top of the hundreds of phone calls to CAMHS Cares and the recorded uptick in student depression and anxiety, Lewis describes “huge turnover” last August as CAMHS therapists left, some moving to private practice. They’re “almost up to full capacity again,” she says, but still down some staff. In March, The Crimson reported that CAMHS employed 36 clinicians, an increase from 32 during the pandemic, but still fewer than in 2018, when it employed 41.
Perhaps raising money specifically for mental health could be an end-around the funding crunch, Hyman suggests. “I think there would be donors. Every family has been touched by this,” he says. And Lewis points out that the CAMHS Cares line is funded entirely by a donation. Much University fundraising takes place behind closed doors, so it’s possible that more donations could continue to improve care.
But without a dramatic increase in funding, the existing bottleneck will continue to block much-needed services. “People would come to us asking us to support screening campaigns,” Hyman remembers, referring to preventative mental health diagnoses. “I would say, you know, it’s great, but what if somebody screens positive? Do you actually have a place for them to get help? Or are you screening people into the void?”
***
With CAMHS a long way off, I wanted to see if outside therapy was a feasible option. Google seemed like a good place to start. I searched “therapy near me.”
A bunch of ads popped up, followed by Yelp: “The Best 10 Counseling & Mental Health in Cambridge, MA.” I clicked through a few of them. Some were too far away. None were cheap. Mount Auburn Counseling Center, for example, costs between $75 and $175 for a single session. Through ThriveWorks, a site that pairs individuals with local therapists, I found more options, similarly expensive. BetterHelp, a similar site, found the average price range of a therapy session in Cambridge to be $85-$150 and listed “more affordable options” as $60-$90. Many therapists I found online weren’t taking new patients, or weren’t taking them for a while. Some of the cost could be covered by my insurance, but I didn’t know how much, and I couldn’t assume the same would be true for other students. Given that I was intimidated by the insurance process, and I didn’t want to spend hundreds of dollars a semester or travel a good distance to get care, private therapy seemed out of the realm of possibility.
The lack of available private therapists isn’t separate from the University’s therapist shortage. Hyman points out that even with sufficient University funding, there simply aren’t enough therapists to go around. Nationwide, the pandemic exacerbated a preexisting shortage of mental healthcare providers — as demand for therapy increased, burnout among healthcare providers did, too. Locally, Cambridge Health Alliance, a major healthcare provider serving Cambridge, Somerville, and Boston, lost dozens of therapists and social workers last fall, for example.
“In Cambridge, Massachusetts, the number of therapists outside of the University who are well trained in CBT and who take insurance are very few,” Hyman says, confirming the trouble I had finding a therapist online. Hyman explains that the shortage exists because of poor reimbursement, especially for therapists who take insurance. “People who skillfully do psychotherapy also have to eat and live,” he says.

In some cases, Cambridge residents face even longer wait times than Harvard students. “The thing that makes my heart sink is when a colleague asks me for a referral for their child, and people say, ‘Oh, yeah, I can see them in six months,’” Hyman says.
And if Harvard hired more local therapists, they would come directly from this already-limited pool of local therapists. “It is zero-sum,” Hyman confirms. “It depletes outside therapists, absolutely.”
He paints an ugly, grim picture, one no amount of funding could solve: There aren’t enough hireable therapists for CAMHS to address all student needs — CAMHS is constrained to function as a short-term stopgap for people in crisis. For students who would benefit from long-term support but are not in dire need — like Marshall, or like my friend — Harvard would be hiring counselors at the expense of other Cambridge residents. The one-on-one therapy system is neither expandable nor sustainable.
At this point, I felt I’d exhausted on- and off-campus professional counseling. It was time to turn to the alternatives.
***
In 1971, Margaret McKenna ’70, a recent Harvard graduate and teaching fellow, founded a new therapy organization to address gaps in mental health infrastructure on campus. Called Room 13 after its address in Mather House, McKenna described it as “something in between talking to a friend or roommate and seeing a psychiatrist.”
Half a century later, Room 13 is still in operation, and their flyers, which read “Feeling stressed, lonely, angry, anxious, overwhelmed?” are ubiquitous. Room 13 is now one of five peer therapy groups supervised by CAMHS, which serve as another line of defense for students who struggle to seek professional help.
Other, issue-specific peer therapy organizations have emerged: Contact, which focuses on BGLTQIA+ identities; Eating Concerns Hotline and Outreach, which focuses on eating disorders and body image; Indigo, which focuses on identity and intersectionality; and RESPONSE, which focuses on sexual assault, intimate violence, and relationships. Some of the groups, including Room 13 and Echo, offer hotlines in addition to their drop-in hours. According to a Contact counselor, all the counselors receive 25-30 hours of training from CAMHS and their organizational directors in the weeks before their first semesters; the training involves a mix of informational content, role playing, and safety requirements.
“I don't know how many people will call,” McKenna said to The Crimson when Room 13 was first formed. “This place is so lonely and people’s pride is pretty ingrained. But there are people around this university who care, and we're trying to demonstrate that.”
Peer therapy is accessible, staffed with trained counselors, and freely available. In other words, it seems to offer a solution to many of the issues I found in CAMHS and private therapy, especially for students with less severe but still time-sensitive problems. CAMHS recommends students try peer therapy to get the support they need. I decide to give it a go.
***
I begin with Room 13. On a Tuesday evening, I approach Thayer, a freshman dormitory, with the feeling that I am casing the premises for a break-in. My ID doesn’t work on the door I try, so I follow a freshman after he swipes in; he eyes me suspiciously.
Once I’m in Thayer’s basement, the room is easy enough to find. A sign encourages me to knock, so I do; I am greeted by two student counselors who gently but efficiently usher me into an adjoining room. It is the beginning of their hours, so I assume I am their first client of the day. Neither counselor asks for my name, and I don’t ask for theirs. No real adult is present, nor any kind of documentation, like a sign-in sheet. The system is clearly designed to ensure privacy and anonymity.
The adjoining room is painted a yellow-beige, dimly-lit, and warm, womblike. We all take off our shoes. Something about the room surprises me. I expected to see my high school guidance counselor’s office: claustrophobic, bowls full of fun-sized candy, walls replete with mindfulness posters. Instead, it’s spacious, and the walls are decorated with minimalist landscape paintings. There’s a bed behind the couch cushions; it’s unclear who sleeps on it. I have a vision of someone reclining all the way back, to the intonation of So how does that make you feel?
Both counselors sit across from me, cross-legged on two armchairs. They say I can talk about anything, so I let them know it’s my first time here, and while there’s nothing particularly big happening in my life right now, I want to be proactive about my mental health. But midway through a sentence, I start crying.
This is unexpected; I rarely cry. The counselors ask questions to determine what is weighing on me. Out comes a list: I didn’t do so well on a midterm last week, I have to deal with the housing lottery, which relates to a difficult situation with one of my roommates, I am balancing a lot of deadlines, et cetera.
They only ask open-ended questions, the vast majority of which are about how actions or realizations made me feel. We talk a lot about my feelings toward my ex-friend and my obsession with grades. As I talk, I feel calmer, lighter; I stop crying about ten minutes in, but there’s no real way to keep track of time, and I realize I have no idea how the session is supposed to end. One of the counselors leaves. The other counselor continues asking questions, and I continue answering them. She offers neither feedback nor advice — not even anodyne consolation, like “That sounds tough.” Just the questions. At first this is slightly irritating in its one-sidedness. But I soon find the rhythm has a certain appeal: The counselor does not have to share herself, and I do not have to feel like I am talking too long, or taking up too much space. Unlike my friends, she feels no need to offer solutions. The simplicity gleams: I talk, she listens.
***
After Room 13, I also try Contact and ECHO. All of the groups follow the same pattern: I walk in, they ask questions, and I answer them. I came to realize that rather than using CBT like many CAMHS therapists, they all employ a non-directive, open-ended form of therapy called Rogerian therapy, in which the patient reaches insights about their thinking and behavior through answering questions rather than receiving guidance.
Other commonalities I find: All of the groups are somewhat difficult to find, and decorated in a similar way, with landscape minimalism, lamps, and pillows. The vast majority of the counselors I interact with are women. I know many of them to varying degrees.
My sessions in peer therapy were mostly positive: I believed that the counselors cared, and were listening — like talking to a friend without the burdens of friendship. Even if it didn’t help me resolve the issues I was dealing with, or understand them better, peer therapy simply felt good to do, a kind of unburdening. Recognizing it might work more for others than it did for me, I would (and did) recommend it to a friend.
And yet, what struck me most was its underutilization, even though CAMHS is egregiously oversubscribed, and the therapy groups attend to overlapping issues. Again, numbers aren’t available for this, and many peer counseling groups have a policy against speaking with journalists, so I have to rely on my own experience: When I visited Room 13, only one other student came in during my hour-long stay; at ECHO and Contact, no other students sought care during my visit. It’s certainly not for a lack of advertising — the groups’ flyers are omnipresent, papering bathroom stalls, bulletin boards, and email lists.
I asked Marshall, a student who sought therapy from CAMHS, why she never tried the peer groups. “It didn’t really seem like an option,” she says. In conversations with friends, many of them — including some who had sought help from CAMHS — had never really considered using the peer groups. They were concerned about compromised anonymity, and uncertain about the rigor of training the groups received. The distrust seemed to reside somewhere in the dissonance between “peer” and “therapy.”
As for me, though I recognized the value of peer therapy, my visits also made me aware of its limitations. Knowing some of my counselors — especially knowing some of them were younger than me — diminished my willingness to be therapized by them: I had unfair reservations about their capacity as therapists because I knew them first as people. And even when I didn’t know the counselors, the dynamic still felt strange; this peer was now someone I could not be friends with, given the patient-therapist relationship that would always precede any friendship. I also didn’t like that all the counselors were women: Although I could not acquire demographic data on the counselors, and may have experienced a biased sample, it seems that female students are doing a disproportionate share of the emotional labor tied to this kind of work.
It seemed to me that the peer groups were conducting a version of traditional, therapist-patient care, except that the counselors were, of course, not professional therapists. And as much as I enjoyed my experiences with them, I could not bring myself to believe that the counselors could truly help me.
***
At this point, I had tried CAMHS, private therapy, and peer therapy. I felt that there were gaps in this network of care, and I hoped to find something that captured the peer support aspect of peer therapy, and that feeling of unburdening, without the constraints I had felt with the peer groups.
I spoke about this dilemma with Meredith Johns ’23, a friend of mine who sought therapy freshman year, following the death of her brother. She started with CAMHS but eventually moved toward alternative forms of care.
She was in Atlanta over break for her brother’s funeral, and she reached out to CAMHS to make an appointment ahead of coming back to campus. “I thought that was the responsible thing to do,” she recalls.
She tried to book a CAMHS appointment online, but none were available. So she called.
“They said: ‘If there are no appointments, there are no appointments.’ Or something very close to that.” She laughs a little. “And I said: ‘My brother died a few days ago, and I would really like to talk to someone.’ And they said okay.”
Johns had a few appointments at CAMHS, but eventually stopped seeing the clinician — “in a pretty non-dramatic way,” she qualifies. Though she says there was nothing wrong with her CAMHS experience, per se, she felt she needed something more specific to dealing with grief.
She started attending “a very woo-woo bereavement group” associated with the Harvard Divinity School. The group met about five times over the semester, in a room at the top of Memorial Church.
Some of her experiences seemed comparable to the peer therapy organizations on campus. “It was very talky,” she says. “Which at the time was good, and is maybe still how I process.”
But unlike peer therapy, the group had an ecumenical bent. For Johns, participating in the group was the start of her broader reorientation towards spiritually oriented care: She started going to Quaker meetings and taking religion classes.
“I got to keep asking why people suffer, while I was suffering the most I've ever suffered, in a way that I had trouble connecting with people about.” She pauses. “Yeah, therapy just didn't do it.”
Given Johns’s emphasis on religious and spiritual spaces, I decide to seek out counsel from a religious leader in a religious space, although I am not religious myself. On a Thursday afternoon between biology class and lunch, I go to confession at St. Paul’s Parish, the Catholic church in Harvard Square, and I speak to a priest, both about how I am doing and about how his work could be a form of mental health care.
He affirms the value of therapy, but he makes clear that he sees his work as distinct. “Therapy is about body-mind integration,” he says. “I also touch on the spirit.” His words echo Johns’s comments — this idea of a third dimension of selfhood that therapy can’t quite reach.
We shift to discussing my current quandaries, and I tell him about my difficult roommate situation. His counsel: “Sometimes what grates on other people is our defects. We must strive to eliminate our imperfections.”
This surprises me. So far, no one I received care from has told me to change anything about myself or given me clear, firm advice. Unlike the unflinching positivity of friends and the non-directive questioning of the peer groups, he was willing to suggest that I had problems — something that seems essential to making progress.
But in the confession box, we were still conforming to a particular model of mental health care: isolated, one-on-one, caregiver and care receiver. And for the plurality of students who don’t identify as Catholic (myself included), or even as religious, this form of care is limited in its helpfulness; the priest couched much of his advice in Catholic doctrine.
I get the sense that it’s not simply the religious aspect of Johns’s bereavement group that mattered to her — it’s the community attached to it, the feeling of embeddedness and mutual care.
“I actually think one of the main things I got out of that space was affirmation or validation from peers, and especially slightly older peers, that I was doing vaguely the right things about mental health and grief,” Johns says.
So what would such a community look like if it were secular?
***
Every week, a group of 6 to 8 students gathers around a table, with no one sitting at the head, to talk about their mental health. This is Harvard Undergraduate Group Peer Therapy, a newly-founded student organization. Each session, they start by filling out the GAD-7 (General Anxiety Disorder-7) and PHQ-9 (Patient Health Questionnaire-9), forms that measure anxiety and depression respectively, and they map their fluctuations throughout the semester. The atmosphere is quiet, relaxed. But over the course of the 75-minute session, as they discuss both their relationships and one of four topics — role transitions, interpersonal disputes, grief and loss, and isolation — they become more animated. When HUGPT first convened, at the beginning of fall semester, many of its members were relative strangers. Now, they discuss their weeks with intimacy and vulnerability.
Unlike the other peer therapy organizations, HUGPT works at the level of a group, with no counselor-patient central dynamic. HUGPT uses Interpersonal Psychotherapy, rather than Rogerian therapy or CBT. According to their website, IPT is based on two ideas: that mental health is largely determined by people’s relationships, and that relationship health is primarily driven by the communication of needs and emotions. “Nobody communicates their emotions perfectly,” the website reads, “but the hope of IPT-G is that by talking about our relationships with a group of peers, each person can contribute their own wisdom as well as learn from the wisdom of their fellows.”
In other words, HUGPT somewhat resembles the group Johns joined in that it is centered around interpersonal relationships, though with a secular communal dimension, rather than a religious one.
I did not attend the group out of respect for the privacy of its members. But I spoke with one of its founders, Suhaas M. Bhat ’23-’24, who has long dreamt of what he terms a peer group “therapeutic church” — something that would reside at the intersection of peer therapy, community support, and spirituality.
“In high school, I was a sad boy,” he says, laughing, before delving into his early struggles with depression and anxiety and his experiences with CBT. This oscillation between humor and gravitas characterizes the rest of the conversation.
During his first semester of college, Bhat had recently gotten out of his first relationship, and was tasked with making new friends and figuring out what he wanted his college experience to look like. “Saying goodbye to a version of myself took place over that semester,” he says. “I drowned myself in work.”
As a member of Harvard’s chapter of Effective Altruism, a movement and philosophy aimed at improving the world, Bhat learned about StrongMinds, an organization in Uganda that provides peer-facilitated psychotherapy to women. StrongMinds has treated 140,000 women for depression, with low relapse rates and a cost of only about $50 per woman for the entire course of treatment.
Inspired by this model, Bhat and his fellow EA member Eric H. Li ’23-24 envisioned a scalable, accessible peer group therapy program for Harvard students.
After meeting with CAMHS and receiving six months of training from the Interpersonal Psychotherapy Institute, Bhat and Li launched HUGPT in the fall of 2021.
Bhat and Li see their group as a less intimidating alternative to professional therapy. As their pubbing email reads: “Formal therapy can feel daunting but imagine a clinically-validated therapy (no cost or insurance required) where you talk through what's on your mind with people who understand. HUGPT is a safe space where students support each other in building healthy and fulfilling relationships that can meaningfully reduce depression and anxiety.”
Peer group therapy has the potential to address the supply-side issues Hyman raised, by broadening the care suppliers beyond licensed therapists and enabling the proliferation of training. “There are a lot of people who want to provide care for each other. You don’t have to be a special person to do that,” Bhat says. “Few people don’t want to take care of each other.” Rather than position some peers as counselors and some as patients, everyone in the group cares for and is cared for by one another.
Bhat synthesizes the more spiritual aspects of care Johns discussed with a secular idea of community. Early in our conversation, I confide in him my growing skepticism towards therapy. “Therapy is not the end-all, be-all. Therapy is our cultural substitute for religion,” he argues. “Group therapy is useful because it facilitates a sense of community and support.”
Ultimately, Bhat envisions peer therapy as part of a broader move toward “proactive therapeutic care instead of reactive care,” he says. “Currently the way we do care is that we wait for something really bad, then we get you a therapist … Check-ups instead of surgeries makes things easier.”
His ideal: Upon admission to Harvard, every student would receive an intake, an initial assessment to determine if they need care. If they need more intensive treatment, they can get it. If they want to join a peer group, there’s a pipeline for that, too. But in general, proactivity is institutionalized, so students no longer feel that the onus is on them to secure care.
Bhat hopes to expand HUGPT on campus and spark similar movements at peer institutions. But it’s worth noting that his group, like the other peer therapy organizations, has struggled to recruit and retain students. “The hardest thing was and continues to be getting high volumes,” he says. “Because there’s something scary about going to a group of people and baring your soul.”
Bhat’s expansive communal model of mental healthcare, one based in endogenous rather than exogenous care, resonates with me. Beyond peer therapy, I wonder what other forms of community support exist on campus, and how they could be expanded.
***
Ninety-eight percent of undergraduates live in the upperclassmen houses. Bhat callsed the house system “the true social organizer of Harvard.” And when I applied to Harvard, the houses were a big draw.
I’ll be honest, though: In my time here, I’ve never seen the houses as a center of my social or emotional life. Aside from eating, sleeping, and working, I’ve spent very little time in my house; I've barely interacted with my tutors or house committee.
But much of the scaffolding for communal care already exists in the upperclassmen house system: Resident tutors and house deans are on call to help students, and the wellness tutors program, which began in 2004, has since expanded to offer care for mental health issues and more. The Cabot House website’s Wellness page lists components of wellness, such as managing stress, anxiety, depression, sleep deprivation, and questions of religion and faith; the wellness tutors serve as “point people for any concerns, questions or requests you might have to help you live a better, fuller, and more balanced life.”
In mid April, after struggling through nights of insomnia, my roommate Vicki Xu ’23-'24, a Crimson Magazine writer, called the HUHS hotline and was eventually connected to a resident tutor in Currier House. He talked to her for about half an hour. An hour later, she was able to go to sleep.
After a few days, the resident tutor followed up over email, offering to talk about sleeping and rest tips. Xu’s house dean also reached out.
Xu was surprised that her house had become the nexus of mental health care she received. “I honestly didn’t think of it as a possibility,” she says. “It just didn’t cross my mind.” But as a Peer Advising Fellow for freshmen herself, she’s familiar with some of the protocol for this in freshman dorms and entryways, she says.
This gap in support between freshman year and upperclassmen housing extends beyond her experience. According to the 2020 Mental Health Task Force report, students saw the freshman year system of advisors, proctors, and PAFs as a “major strength” but felt that “this system of support largely disappears once they move into the Houses.” The report also notes that houses differed in the range and quality of support offered, and that tutors and proctors are “unclear or facing changing expectations about their role in recognizing and responding to serious mental health issues among their students.”
A stronger, clearer role for the houses in mental health care could be part of a proactive effort to take some of the burden off of professional therapy. “CAMHS used to say there’s no problem too small. But with overwhelming need, there has to be more support prior to seeking professional help,” Lewis says.
In the meantime, Xu has been attending the Currier House wellness study breaks, which involve making tea and doing guided meditations. “I do think it is important that when something like this happens, the tutors and deans check in on you,” she says.
***
In taking my inventory of available mental healthcare for students, I tried to evaluate each component’s strengths and limitations, in an effort to imagine how, together, they might form an effective mosaic of care. Still, I found the overall network insufficient — for people with severe mental health issues, there’s a shortage of therapists, and for people with less pressing concerns, there were still too many ways to fall through the cracks. Even I had trouble as I poured more time into these efforts than most students have to spare.
Taboo around discussing mental health persists, as illustrated by my conversation with my friend, as well as my difficulty finding people to speak about their mental health on the record. But in the interviews I did get to conduct, mental health care was spoken about candidly as a responsible and reasonable treatment to seek, something that could be discussed with friends.
To me this suggests that we’ve progressed through some de-stigmatization, such that we feel more comfortable encouraging people to get therapy. The tricky part is balancing that de-stigmatization with the understanding that therapy is not a panacea, and it’s far from an unlimited resource. Calls for CAMHS to simply bulk up are misguided: Even with added funding, CAMHS can never expand to the extent that every student could have immediate access to a licensed clinician — and along the way, such an expansion would take therapists from the surrounding community, away from people who are no less deserving of therapy than Harvard students.
And while students demand more CAMHS therapists, the peer groups remain underused, which I see as evidence that valorizing therapy has cost us our faith in our peers’ ability to care for us. I count myself guilty in this; although I found my time at peer therapy cathartic, at no point did I completely overcome my skepticism about its efficacy.
To be clear: Some people need and benefit from therapy done by a professionally trained, licensed clinician. I do not mean to diminish the value of therapy, especially for people with severe mental illness for whom it can be life-saving. And I want to reiterate the limitations of my own experience, as someone who stands to benefit less from care.
But there seems to be a belief that no matter what your problem is, some form of professional therapy will work for you. And that is not the case: Many of the people I spoke with found that therapy wasn’t compatible with their needs. So “you should try CAMHS” simply does not cut it.
In sum: While therapy can be crucial for some, increased, professional one-on-one therapy is not — and cannot be — the answer to all of our mental health woes. Instead, there needs to be a more radical reimagining of mental health care that includes therapy but extends beyond it, one that centers community and relationships and builds on existing campus infrastructure — a more tightly woven safety net that catches people before they need professional help. Maybe that looks like an expanded version of Bhat’s peer group, or a bolstered house-life-centered system. But it could also be something unexpected and different.
***
As for me, I’ve been taking an ornithology class this semester, which has required me to go birdwatching many weekend mornings with classmates. I also spent spring break with these classmates on a class trip to a few wildlife refuges on the gulf coast of Texas. We’ve seen a lot of birds. Mostly we’ve seen one another: We’ve slept inches apart, eaten meals together, huddled in early morning when it was cool and shared water when it was hot. We’ve talked about friendships, relationships, anxiety, and God. They, more than anyone, have helped me come to terms with the end of a friendship. In many ways, it’s been a lot like Bhat’s peer group: a set of relative strangers recurrently convening in an insulated space, supporting each other mentally and emotionally.
My birds class has offered the aspects of care I’ve come to see as crucial: It’s built into life in an integrated academic-social way; it’s mutually supportive, sustained, and permeated by a greater, even ineffable, sense of belonging.
I don’t give this as an example of a replacement for professional therapy, or something that would work for everyone. But for me, it’s consoling to feel that beyond the bounds of close friendships, and outside of the therapist’s office, there exists the possibility of a more universal care.
— Magazine writer Talia M. Blatt can be reached at talia.blatt@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @talia_m_blatt.
Sections
Content Warning: This article contains discussion of suicide.
Former Harvard Crimson President Fabian Fall, Class of 1910, was racing through life.
At just 15, he was accepted into both Oxford and Harvard. He entered and graduated from Oxford in two and half years, making him the youngest graduate from the program in over two decades. In 1906, he began studying at Harvard and finished his degree requirements in a year. He became an editor at The Crimson as a sophomore, then Managing Editor as a junior, the same year he started studying at the Law School. He was elected President in the spring of 1909.
That summer, Fall joined a military exercise known as the Red and Blue War of 1909, meant to test soldiers through a simulation of wartime conditions. On August 17, Fall sent an urgent message to his cousin to come to the South Armory in Boston.
Moments later, he killed himself.
He was a teen prodigy. He had everything going for him.
What happened?
***
While there’s no definitive explanation for Fall’s death, his own ambition almost surely played a role. A New York Times article published the day after attributes his suicide to “overstudy.” His obituary in The Crimson attributes it to the effects of “undue exertion and exposure to the sun” in training camp on a mind and body “already overtaxed with the year’s work.”
Today, Fall’s bronze bust overlooks the Sanctum, the large, wood-paneled room on the second floor of The Crimson. It’s the only such figure in the room. The plaque underneath makes no mention of the fact that he took his own life. Each time I see it, I can’t help but wonder why we choose to memorialize him and him alone. What, exactly, are we placing on a pedestal?
I only learned about Fall’s story two years after joining The Crimson, when I happened to Google the name on the little plaque. But the more I learned, the more I saw some part of him in myself, as I attempt to find my place at this paper over a century later.
On nights that I have Crimson duties, I enter the newsroom after 8 p.m., chattering and laughing with my fellow writers as we sit down to edit our pieces. The air is lively, the banter is flowing, and people leave one by one with a finished story.
Then, 11:30 p.m. hits. The last writers shuffle out, unless there’s a piece that takes long into the night to edit — which happens at least once or twice a week. If I’m scheduled to flow articles into the daily print layout, I’ll see the newsroom gradually turn silent. The proof readers have their heads buried in articles. If it’s a good day, the laughter will continue into the night. If not, someone half-heartedly tries to play music, but after two Phoebe Bridgers songs, it dies. We keep working in silence until we close out at 2, 3, 4 a.m.
In a typical week, I have hours of interviews and meetings, comp seminars to plan and teach, other people’s pieces to edit, and my own articles that require hours of sourcing, planning, and writing and sometimes days of editing. I’m replying to emails in class, if not skipping lectures altogether, just to get whatever sleep I can.
Earlier this semester, the news broke that nearly 40 faculty signed a letter questioning Harvard’s investigation into professor John L. Comaroff’s alleged sexual harassment and misconduct. At the time, I was writing a 2,000-word story on dining labor shortages and had several other papers due for my classes. Even with two Crimson co-writers to help, I was unable to sustain the pace — the only sleep I got was by accident.
I didn’t know who to turn to. My editors sat me down and offered their help, but I knew I couldn’t take it. If I felt this way, they were surely dealing with worse. If I stayed up late, I knew they were staying up later. Everyone wants to be there for each other, but none of us truly can be.
In the middle of one of the worst nights of my life, I talked to a friend in my dark, lamp-lit dorm. I didn’t know if it was ever going to get better, I told him. I had already set my heart on this career, and I couldn’t see a way out. I had to be incredible, or I would be nothing at all.
He turned his face away from mine. He didn’t want to see this happen, he said. He just wanted to see me happy. He asked me how he could help. I told him there was simply no way he could.
In the year and a half we had known each other, it was the first time I saw him cry.
***
Most — if not all — of this stress is self-inflicted.
I don’t like admitting it, but I know why I and so many others do this.
The Crimson’s masthead is a pipeline for major news outlets and magazines. Its highly secretive, exhausting, and erratic selection process for leadership roles — the Turkey Shoot — has loomed over my head for three consecutive semesters, even though it only lasts one month each fall. It involves two rounds of interviews with members of the outgoing masthead, deliberators who were friends and confidants just days before. What happens during the final interview is confidential, but victors and losers alike have told me they emerged disillusioned with the institution to which they’ve dedicated their entire college careers.
I hesitate to even write this piece. In that final room, I don’t want to be known as the one who complained. I don’t want to be the troublemaker. I don’t want to be yet another burden.
For better or for worse, I can’t imagine myself doing anything else — learning from different perspectives, uncovering the hidden story, and, hopefully, instilling in others the passion for this work. I love writing, and I love editing, and I love teaching, and I love journalism.
So tell me, what kind of love pushes me to sign up for that extra article when my eyes are already burning while writing this one? What kind of love convinces me to take on another leadership role, knowing it will subtract ten more hours each week from my overdrawn schedule? What is it that I love, when I’ve seen what this place has done — to Fabian Fall, to my editors, to my friends — and still return to it, night after night?
— Associate Magazine Editor Meimei Xu can be reached at meimei.xu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @MeimeiXu7.
If you or someone you know needs help at Harvard, contact Counseling and Mental Health Services at (617) 495-2042 or the Harvard University Police Department at (617) 495-1212. Several peer counseling groups offer confidential peer conversations; learn more here.

You can contact a University Chaplain to speak one-on-one at chaplains@harvard.edu or here.

You can also call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 800-273-TALK (8255) or text the Crisis Text Line at 741741.
Sections
Dear Freshman Year,
I cautioned myself from meeting you with high expectations. I had done too much of that already. Graduating high school in 2020 during a pandemic, I learned to lower my standards.
For months, I had secretly dreamed about the adrenaline of you. Of stepping onto campus as a student for the first time and knowing that it belonged to me — that it was mine to explore and to mold. Of rushing to class with a book in my hand like the main character in a movie. Of decorating my dorm room, of running by the Charles River, of staying up late to talk to friends about topics that only come up at two in the morning.
But during my gap year, my excitement for you melded with an intimidating feeling of uncertainty. I had always derived my happiness from looking forward: to weekend hikes with friends, to pumpkin cheesecake on Thanksgiving, to the first fateful day with you. Then suddenly my predictions came to a screeching halt. When I tried imagining the future, I simply drew a blank.
I told myself not to rely on you. I told myself that I wouldn’t believe in you until I had flown across the country and met you in person. We played the long game. And eventually you did show up, your arms wide open.
In our first week together, I felt like a newborn child opening my eyes for the very first time. Everything fascinated me. I was blown away by the way the light hit the stained glass windows of Annenberg and the glistening chandelier above the marble steps of Widener. The way people played frisbee in the yard and laid on the grass, soaking up the sun and savoring the end of summer. I remember waking up early just to have time to look out my window and take you in.
In our first month, I became close to people faster than I ever knew I could. I would look around at my friends and think, “How have I spent so many Septembers not knowing you? What did my life even look like before you came into it?”
That was always the comparison: life before you and life after you. I could not fathom how much had changed. I had gone from a year of stillness and solitude to the most socially and intellectually stimulating experience of my life. And that was only the beginning.
That fall, you brought me to football games, woke me up for 8:15 a.m. breakfast with entrymates, took me to Jefe’s at its busiest hours, and danced with me through Zumba at Hemenway. You watched my roommates and I topple over each other in the bathroom while getting ready for John Harvard’s Bar Mitzvah and cry from laughter over spilled Brita water and free couches that wouldn’t fit through our door.
First semester had this untouchable kind of magic. Friends left Tatte croissants on my desk with notes that said things like, “My love, I know you crushed it … I bet they took that psych exam out in a body bag.” I spent so much time talking to people that I started setting timers for when I’d finally start my work, naturally ignoring them once they went off. College was beginning to feel like home, but it was still a new one. Your first few months were an extended housewarming party.
The days were long and the weeks were short. Winter break came far too quickly, and the goodbyes felt rushed and unfair. I could barely understand the way time was playing out in my life — I was leaving for six weeks and I had only known my friends for twice that period. I was afraid of the slowness of home, afraid I would miss the bustle and liveliness of college more than I could handle.
Break turned out to be a long exhale. I finally had the time to think and process the past few months. When I returned to you in January, I expected to know exactly how to live my second semester. What to prioritize, who to spend time with, how to stay balanced.
The distance was good for us. But the start of the new year was not.
The first few weeks back, your imperfections set in at last. We no longer needed to try to make a good impression on each other; we no longer skimmed the surface. You disappointed me. Friends disappointed me. I disappointed myself.
I was furious with you. When I met you, I thought I could leave behind my previous anxieties and struggles and start anew. Instead, you brought them out and let them follow me. Life before you seeped into life after you.
You weren’t flawless. But you showed up. One day after another. In those moments of chaos — when I had overcommitted myself, when I hadn’t slept well in days, when I thought I’d severed bonds that couldn’t be mended — you persisted. You showed me a different magic: one I could trust.
Freshman year, I loved all of you: your best and your worst. I miss your euphoric summer and reflective fall, I miss your winter and the snow that melted before I was ready for it to go. I even preemptively miss your spring, which simultaneously breathes new life into the air and leaves me feeling unsettled. This week, the Yard exploded with pink blossoms and sunshine, and I gazed out at it bittersweetly — the two of us are nearing our end.
I want to take my time saying goodbye.
I want to thank you properly.
For what you’ve given me and for what you have left in store. For the long nights drinking tea with my best friends, for the irresponsible excitement for monthly improv shows, for the many inside jokes. Most of all, for this new, unexpected, magical life that you’ve granted me.
Yours,
Michal
— Magazine writer Michal Goldstein can be reached at michal.goldstein@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @bymgoldstein.
Sections
With classes over, finals in full swing, and summer just beyond the horizon, it’s easy to feel a little downtrodden or uninspired — stuck in a rut, one might say. At least, that’s the case for Josh, FM’s favorite anonymous forever freshman always in need of advice. We asked our editors for their best tips on how to emerge from a late-spring trough into a glistening summer. Here is what (a few of them) had to say. The rest, presumably deep in a rut of their own, had nothing salient to share.
***
Have you ever heard of stochastic gradient descent? No? Well, it’s an algorithm for finding a “global optimum” while avoiding ruts. The details aren’t important, but I will give you the big idea: to get out of a rut, there are two things you need: momentum and randomness.
Sometimes you just need to pick a direction — any direction — and start moving as fast as you can. The math says it doesn’t really matter which way you go as long as you move fast enough. Basically, don’t get so caught up in making the right move that you forget to move at all.
— Associate Magazine Editor Harrison R. T. Ward can be reached at harrison.ward@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @HarrisonRTWard.
So, you’re in a rut. Or are you? I don’t mean to sound facetious — feeling like you’re in a rut usually comes with a sense of shame, and I think it’s worth trying to articulate where that shame is coming from. “Rut” implies you should be doing something else — but where are those expectations coming from, and do they reflect what you actually want? What you think is a rut could just be growing pains, or perhaps an entry point into a new set of tracks that will lead you where you’re meant to go. Tough love has its place, but so does self-love — not the kind that would have you buying face masks and overpriced lotion, but the kind that encourages rest and self-reflection. I’m just saying, don’t be so hard on yourself, Josh.
— Magazine Chair Maliya V. Ellis can be reached at maliya.ellis@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @EllisMaliya.
Do something kind for someone else! It’s the best way to broaden your perspective on the world, and you’ll feel better after getting out of your own head for a bit. Offer to teach your roommate how to unload the dishwasher. Volunteer your extensive knowledge of 20th-century French literature to your classmates in section. Inform the girl standing next to you in the Tatte line that it’s pronounced es-press-oh, no “x.” Convince your best friend to break up with her good-for-nothing boyfriend. Don’t worry if your own life is out of whack — this is the perfect opportunity to get someone else’s in order.
— Magazine Chair Sophia S. Liang can be reached at sophia.liang@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @totalPHIAsco.
Stop fighting the rut, and feel bad about yourself instead. Watch Bojack Horseman and eat Goldfish in bed. Request extensions on your paper twenty minutes before it’s due. Here’s a suggested eating schedule: 4 p.m. breakfast, 10 p.m. lunch, 4 a.m dinner. Become nocturnal. When you’re sufficiently disgusted with yourself, and you decide to start doing the bare minimum again, simply seeing the light of day will feel opulent!
— Magazine Editor-at-Large Josie F. Abugov can be reached at josie.abugov@thecrimson.com. 
Read a Joan Didion essay and rip a bong.
— Associate Magazine Editor Sarah W. Faber can be reached at sarah.faber@thecrimson.com.
“He should go to Berryline.”
— Associate Magazine Editor Maya M. F. Wilson can be reached at maya.wilson@thecrimson.com.
Getting out of a rut is simple. If you’re in a rut, find a ladder. Climb the rungs of said ladder. Oh no, you got to the top of the ladder and there are no more rungs but a lot more rut? Okay. Grab a second ladder, and place it on top of your first ladder. Now, climb the rungs of the second ladder. Why didn’t you tape the two ladders together? Now you’ve fallen backwards back into the rut because the second ladder wasn’t secured? C’mon, this really isn’t rocket science. Why didn’t I tell you to tape the second ladder to the first? First of all, watch your tone, I’m trying to help you. Second of all, I felt like the secure the ladder part was kinda obvious, man. Like if I didn’t tell you to use the rungs of the ladder, then would you have just stared at the ladder blankly like there’s—. Hey, I’m talki—. Stop interrupti—! You know what? Ask someone else for help, rut-man.
— Magazine Editor-at-Large Kevin Lin can be reached at kevin.lin@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @kevinlin0903.
Sections
I was sitting in a hotel room at the Westin Pasadena when the reality of my upcoming summer sank in.
The setting was perfect for a revelation of impending loneliness; it had two beds and was way too big for just me and contained no signs of life besides my makeup strewn on the bathroom counter. The cousins I was living with sometimes got a free room with their Marriott points, just to use the hotel pool. They told me I might as well stay and enjoy the quiet. I couldn’t pass up the easy romanticism of a solo night in a nice hotel.
After they left, I logged onto my virtual internship, which ran from the disorienting hours of 3 p.m. to 11 p.m. three days a week. For the other two days, I worked in-person at an Asian American film production company — the gig that had landed me in LA for the summer. I imagined my best friends pregaming in New York, playing the Nicki remix of “Best I Ever Had” and rotating through endless outfit permutations. We’d all lived together for the past year, and I’d underestimated the buoyancy of knowing that hours alone would always be balanced by hours of booling. Now, I was stuck in a sterile hotel room in a sprawling city that contained very few reliable friends.
The next morning, I braved the 45-minute journey to Beverly Hills just to spend $13 on frozen Greek yogurt, navigating LA’s notorious highways even though I’d only gotten my driver’s license a month ago. My jitteriness demanded that I be on the move. I cruised along Mulholland Drive with an invigorating ease; I belted the Olivia Rodrigo album. I started to think that summer might be okay after all.
Then I promptly dented a parked car. When I asked my parents for advice, they misunderstood what happened and told me not to leave a note. I soon realized that I may have committed a hit-and-run. On the road back to Pasadena, I cried a dangerous amount for someone who clearly did not know how to drive.
***
When I’m on the Silver Lake portion of Sunset Boulevard at dusk, I feel like I’m walking through a photograph. Leaving the strip mall with the upscale sushi restaurant and Van Leeuwen’s ice cream, I know I’ll hit Intelligentsia Coffee if I keep going for 15 minutes. At the famous Sunset Junction, the photograph’s waffled, yellowing edges will come into focus, and I’ll have to turn back to keep soaking in sepia-toned nostalgia.
I’ve always been sentimental; places are easily inflected with visceral associations of what once happened there and haunted by the specter of who I was in those moments. The sentimentality can sometimes be selfish. LA is a city of nearly 4 million people; I’ve spent maybe half a year there. Still, that street and the hills and the reservoir feel arrested in my memory, like they only exist for me.
My nostalgia has been forged through a flurry of memories, but here’s the one I think it hinges on: the weekend before my high school graduation, I went to LA on my first-ever trip with friends. We met up with my debate friend from Silver Lake at the strip mall for sushi; I’d had a crush on him years ago, but being platonically close now made me feel chill and mature compared to my pining younger self. After dinner, streaks of pink and orange blossomed over the silhouetted buildings on Sunset — a classic LA postcard. I remember being intoxicated by independence and youth and this new person I could sense myself becoming. I was on the precipice of collegiate reinvention, and already I was the kind of girl who could jaunt around a cool city like LA. It was a feeling I knew I’d be chasing forever.
Since that trip, I kept returning to LA, and often to Silver Lake. I clocked nights of debauchery there — before a beach bonfire, on New Year’s Eve — when alcohol was still tinged with novelty. My roommates and I lived in an adjacent neighborhood for three months over our pandemic gap year.
Last summer, I returned because of my burgeoning interest in entertainment. I always loved who I was in LA; the city seemed to mark clear periods of growth, the backdrop of the coming-of-age movie that I believed to structure my life. But this time around, endless days alone replaced collective effervescence. My relationships to people there had changed, as they do; I was working instead of freely roaming.
If Silver Lake was a photograph, I was no longer the girl who took it. Still, returning to LA made me fixated on her, and on the places that had preserved the city so beautifully in her memory.
***
My cousin told me that I needed to make friends. He advised me to break into the “Asian scene” or join a girl squad at a pilates class. We both knew I never would. I was famously not a “chiller”; I wanted to be engulfed by relationships with people who deeply understood me. If I couldn’t have that, I would lean into the summer’s loneliness — which operates in a sneaky symbiosis with sentimentality. My job didn’t start till 3 p.m., so I often drove alone from Pasadena to the trendy Eastside cafes I used to frequent. Those excursions served as a time machine. I didn’t have to forge new meanings out of LA; I could just remember the old ones, and that was enough.
A month into my stay, my cousin summoned his niece and nephew from Orange County to hang out with me. Evidently, my routine was so untenable that it required intervention. Both were new to LA, and I was designated as their tour guide.
For brunch, we shared the Instagram-famous ricotta toast at a Sqirl, a quintessential Silver Lake cafe. We talked about Brian’s romantic situation and whether Kaitlyn should quit college swimming and my absurd creative project. We didn’t bare our souls to each other, but I was reminded of how refreshing it can be to approach people without context, purely as the selves that we are now.
Afterwards, we sat in the sun at Intelligentsia Coffee. Fleetingly, my mind wandered to when I’d sat in that same sunny spot a few weeks before, and the butterflies of hope and excitement that had since deteriorated. But then Kaitlyn took a picture of our lattes for her fledgling foodie Instagram account, and the sun and red stucco and matcha-on-tap zapped back into focus — out of the past and into the concretely vibrant present.
***
Two months later, I discovered a new level of porousness to the world, and I learned just how saturated the world could become in return. It was my last week in LA, and I had spontaneously given someone a handwritten letter — a letter that was, in retrospect, the most circuitous emotional confession ever written. Still, the vulnerability of putting thoughts on paper for another person to read startled me. I hadn’t done anything like it before, and I was surprised to learn that I could. When I pulled the haphazardly folded papers from my pocket, it was like handing over years worth of tenderness — the parts of my interiority that I never dreamt could be entrusted to the care of someone else. I immediately got into my Prius, turned on SZA, started crying, and drove off.
What was once a high-stakes obstacle course had transformed into well-worn terrain. As I drove from Silver Lake to Santa Monica, I understood that every cliché about opening yourself up to someone was true: I felt wonderfully, liberatingly naked. A constitutive element of nostalgia is that it’s always being created. So maybe, when I return to LA, the route along the I-10 will be inextricable from a euphoric emotional intensity. But in that moment, it felt so vivid that it had to be singular. I couldn’t imagine feeling this specific way again. I didn’t want to. The idea that the drive could fade into another source of nostalgia — something to be inorganically recreated — seemed far-fetched and silly.
Traffic clogged the I-10, and I wondered what I looked like to the people in the cars around me. My eyes were red and puffy. Snot ran down my lips. I wasn’t crying because of what the letter actually said, or what response I might not receive, but because I was overwhelmed by the sheer power of what I had the capacity to feel. I laughed then, in the middle of a vast, crowded highway, amongst so many strangers who had maybe once felt this inarticulable mess of feelings, too.
— Magazine writer Elyse D. Pham can be reached at elyse.pham@thecrimson.com.
Sections
In the beginning, the story goes, God made the heavens and the earth. God made day and night, put stars in the sky and plants in the dirt. And on the seventh day, God was tired. So God rested.
“God rests. What does that mean?” asks Jamie G. Drucker, who works as the Student Activities Director and Reform Community Advisor at Harvard Hillel. I asked Jaime to talk to me about Shabbat, the Jewish day of rest that occurs every week, from sundown Friday to sundown Saturday. Observing Shabbat is the fourth of the ten commandments.
I met her a few weeks ago during a lunch at Rabbi Dani’s house. The Rabbi said something interesting, and I wanted to write it down. “Does anyone have a pen?” I asked loudly, probably a little obnoxiously. Jaime leaned over and whispered in my ear, “Just so you know, some people here don’t write on Shabbat.”
The specificity of these rules has been lost to me over the years post-graduating Jewish preschool. Jaime reminds me: No phone, no laptop. No writing, no electricity. According to the Torah, these activities do not qualify as rest. “You can’t find me. I don’t have to answer any of my emails. I’m free not only of the task, but of the burden of the task. It’s just gone,” she says. Wow, I think. That sounds really nice, actually. 
Jaime grew up in Florida in a relatively unobservant Jewish family. “My sister calls us ‘bagel and lox Jews,’” she says. In college at the University of Florida, she studied religion with a focus on Islam. “I was doing all this research and asking these people about themselves and their relationship with their religion, and someone just very kindly asked me, ‘What about you?’”
“It just felt like: Whoosh. There is something dishonest about that, to not have asked myself the same things I’m asking other people,” Jaime says. That realization began her journey of religious inheritance. “Maybe I do want to live by these things,” she remembers thinking. “What’s my next opportunity to live by this?
After graduating college, Jaime came to the Divinity School to continue her religious education, where, in a class with Jon Levenson, she was “rocked by commandedness.”
“They say when the Torah was revealed it said: ‘we will do and we will understand.’ The way we talk about the Torah is, you have a certain kind of trust that you will just do the thing, and in doing it, you live your way into understanding why.”
So Jaime started doing exactly that. During the beginning of the pandemic, she began the weekly practice of observing Shabbat. She cherished Shabbat meals with her pandemic pod. “Especially with Zoom and Covid, it made that day feel meaningful when the rest of the week felt weird,” she says.
So does it work? After Shabbat, does she feel rested? Turns out it’s a little more complicated than that. “I don’t know if I feel rested,” she begins. “It’s just a reminder that I am a person apart from the things that I do, and that’s a big part of Shabbat too. You’re not allowed to create or destroy… You just marvel at the world as it is, and maybe lament that the world is not as it could be. So that is a great reset. But we live in the world. We live in the world as much as we live in Shabbat.”
Oftentimes, in the wake of the sabbath, Jaime feels heartbroken. “People talk about the Sunday scaries or whatever?” she says with a laugh. “I get so sad every week.”
Jaime jogged another distant Hebrew school memory about the closing ceremony of Shabbat on Saturday evening, called Havdalah. Havdalah literally means separation, and she explains that it’s intended to honor the division between the week and the sabbath. “Every day is not supposed to be Shabbat. Some people say you bring little pieces of Shabbat into your week, that’s fine. There is a sacredness in separation, though,” she says.
I appreciate the tangible boundary Havdalah provides when considering the everyday and the holy, work and rest. And I appreciate that the ritual of Shabbat punctuates the rhythm of the week with some stillness.
The way I’m following it thus far, part of religious connection comes from doing with the trust that in that doing, there will come an understanding of why. But isn’t that paradoxical: we’re being commanded to rest, and in following that commandment, we are doing, which is, in fact, the opposite of rest?
Jaime acknowledges this dissonance: “Maybe it’s hard, but I think rabbis [and] God, they’re smart. They get that it’s hard to be a person. It’s hard to rest. So we’re going to command you to rest, because it’s in the fabric of the universe, as the creation story tells us. And because otherwise we won’t.”
Sitting across from my friend Jeremy O.S. Orenstein ’24 in the dining hall, we’re talking about Judaism and how awesome rest is. He says, “Let’s do it this weekend! Come on! Let’s celebrate Shabbat!” He really said this. I check my calendar: I can’t this weekend. I’m taking some kids on a field trip to the aquarium and I definitely need my phone for that.
— Associate Magazine Editor Maya M. F. Wilson can be reached at maya.wilson@thecrimson.com.
Sections
If I went too far down the perfectly manicured cul-de-sac, I’d see clear through to a field of horses, running freely through seemingly endless pastures. But a fence kept me from enjoying the same freedom they had, marooning me behind the unforgiving brick. My grandparents’ neighborhood was a suburban haven in the middle of cow fields. The free space was the one good thing — the trees to hide in, the ponds to stare at, and the roads to ride your bike along.
My brother and I weren’t supposed to ride our bikes in Mayfield, the neighborhood across the street, but I had grown bored with the perfectly flat and familiar roads on my side. I wanted an adventure in a place I had never encountered before. Maybe there would be hills there — anything was better than the same old thing. But certainly, I thought, there wouldn’t be anything I couldn’t handle.
Despite being fresh off my training wheels at the embarrassing age of 11, I had the confidence of a Tour de France cyclist. I never dreamed I would meet a stretch of road that could finally take me down.
Maybe I would still have that confidence now if I had decided not to go down that hill in Mayfield. I could see it sloping downward. That was the main reason I chose it. I wanted to be able to glide down, but my 11-year-old brain didn’t think to look far enough ahead to see the road was a dead end. I was barreling toward it, but I hadn’t given up hope just yet.
Gripping my handle bars, I pushed the right side forward in an effort to direct myself around the cul-de-sac. But it was in vain, and the abrupt change tipped my bike on its side. I felt the moment that my leg made contact with the asphalt, but the bike kept moving.
I closed my eyes and waited for it to be over. Seconds passed like minutes as I gathered the strength to pull my head off the ground. My brother, not far behind and with a more adequate grasp of how his braking system worked, rushed over to help me. The road behind me was streaked with blood and tiny bits of flesh — ripped from my leg to reveal the white fat underneath.
My brother picked me up off the ground and kept me from crying on the painstakingly long walk home, distracting my mind with made-up lyrics to a generic tune. I stayed strong because I knew if I broke down crying, he might cry too.
He got me home — where I was reprimanded by my grandmother and had to bear the sizzling of hydrogen peroxide on my skin. I don’t know what I would have done without him.
There were very few moments growing up when my brother and I were on the same team. I could never drop my guard around him before. I never cried in front of him for fear of ridicule. But this was one of those moments that revealed that we would always have each other’s backs — even if we didn’t say it.
I often play this moment back in my head, particularly when I miss him. It’s often in conjunction with a memory of how cruel or dismissive I was of him in comparison. I never realized growing up that I had a built-in best friend.
Now he’s off at the University of South Carolina, in his third year. He has his own apartment with a year-long lease. And last month, over the phone, he casually commented that he might not be coming home for summer.
That’s when it struck me — this summer could potentially be the last time we live together. He has grown up. We both have. Now it’s almost time for him to graduate, move out, and move on with his life.
It jolted me into the present, into the realization that I’m growing up as well. I’ve gone off to college, and I’m slowly inching closer and closer to leaving my home behind, too. It’s hard to not see the people you grew up with. I have so many great memories with my brother, and I’m afraid that there won’t be more of them in the future.
There’s nothing I can do to change the past. I can’t go back and not be a brat to my mother. I can’t go back and not fight with my brother. The only way now is forward.
Now begins the test of bonds. The test of whether or not I’ll lose a friendship 18 years in the making. And I’m scared that I’ll fail. I’m scared of how different things are now. I’m scared of the continuous change that I’m going through. I’m scared to even be writing all this out.
I feel like I’m still standing in front of that fence — watching everybody else run free, trying to distract myself from the pain. But this time, my brother isn’t here to help me get up and move on. So, I’m stuck clinging to this summer and the other ones long gone by — clinging to the memories of my family all under one roof. But whether I’m ready for it or not, time keeps moving.
— Magazine writer Jem K. Williams can be reached at jem.williams@thecrimson.com. 
Sections
It feels strange to start my day so early, at about 5 a.m., because my body takes longer to wake up than my mind does. I am remarkably alert in the morning, but I have to force my legs to pedal my bike through a waking Cambridge, down to the boathouse for practice. I pass service workers in uniform waiting for the bus on Brattle Street and imagine that they may be going to work, or returning home after the night shift.
There is nothing special about this morning routine. It is ordinary to me — everything that I am doing and everything that I am about to do. As we row, it’s a push and a catch, a push and a catch. Within minutes, my body finally catches up. It is so cold. The wind stimulates my nervous system, and suddenly there is a sort of unity between what I want to do and what I am doing. There is nothing else to do other than insert my blade in the water and push.
We push, with our bodies, all the way up the river. If we stopped moving, the boat would stop moving, too. It is a wonderful feeling, to know that my body is strong and capable. I focus on my feet, flat on the footplate, and then the engagement of my thighs, which press once the blade is locked. There is a tug on my latissimus muscles and, at the end of the stroke, an activation of my abdominals as they hold my body upright. My grip on the oar handle is secure. I am intensely aware of my body and its contractions and releases and its relation to other bodies in front of and behind me.
The river opens up about 2,000 meters downriver from Weld Boathouse. Rowers call it the Basin. In the Basin, the Boston skyline sits on the horizon atop Longfellow Bridge. The sky is mostly gray until the sun rises. Then, the horizon glows a pale yellow just before it burns red, or maybe calms with orange and pink. The industrial architecture is first unveiled by a pale light, and the distance afforded to me, on the river, allows for the fleeting feeling that nothing is complicated and moments can just be appreciated as aesthetic experiences.
Two hours later, I’m sitting in the middle row for my 9 a.m. English class. It feels like all that I experienced earlier this morning happened somewhere else. In class, we are reading Charles Dickens’s “Bleak House.” This is the longest novel I have ever read and also one of the most complicated. I am handed a passage from the novel and told to take the next 15 minutes to perform a close reading. The passage is only four sentences.
“For a time there were some dungeon lights burning, as the lamp of life hums in Tom-all-Alone’s, heavily, heavily, in the nauseous air, and winking — as that lamp, too, winks in Tom-all-Alone’s — at many horrible things,” reads one of them.
A close reading is not merely reading. It’s a thoughtful and critical analysis of a text in order to develop a deep and precise understanding of the text’s form in relation to its significance. It is an inspection done by slowing down time to be present with the text. Each word is enthroned with enough power to bear the weight of its paragraph. I find this process one of the hardest tasks in studying literature, because it requires intense stillness and focus. It is difficult for me to summon such isolated attention on command, because most other things in my life do not require this of me.
It all becomes beautiful quickly — the repetition, the rhythm, Dickens’s precise use of language. I decipher. Push and catch, push and catch. I have learned to define inner peace not as stillness in the body, necessarily, but as stillness in the mind. This seems like a rudimentary concept.
We all chuckle at “mindfulness.” I do not know if this is what I am talking about. What I do know is that there is immense value in being present, and being aware of the body and mind, and knowing when one needs rest and the other needs movement. Rowing and studying literature are only different in the physical activity required. What begins to happen when I allow my mind and my body to unify, or become one, repeatedly, everyday, is that both become easy. The world becomes saturated with intrigue and beauty because I am aware enough to see it.
— Magazine writer Isabel T. Mehta can be reached at isabel.mehta@thecrimson.com. 
Sections
The earthy scent of weed fills the air as I ascend to a second-story walk-up in Mattapan, Mass., where about a dozen people have gathered for Gallery 205’s Saturday night “Toke N Paint.” Every week, between 6 and 10 p.m., participants can get high and paint — for a sum of $50 dollars per ticket. Kizzy Kee, a cannabis entrepreneur who organizes the event, leads me up the stairs and introduces me to her co-founder, the “Candy Man,” who provides event-goers with a small baggie of graham cracker edibles and offers me a cup of (non-edible) popcorn.
Rap and R&B blares over the speakers; at some point,there is a noticeable playlist change from old school hip hop to TikTok hits. Meanwhile, faded participants fill in a series of outlined sketches stacked next to brushes, paint, and easels on a back table. I choose a design, illustrated by the Candy Man’s sister, that depicts a three-fingered alien hugging someone’s — or something’s — Kardashian-esque rump. The Candy Man tells me — twice — that this is by far his favorite design.
Between my interviews with Kee and the Candy Man, I paint the alien pastel pink, the booty baby blue, and add a crescent moon to the background. To include more dimension in my masterpiece, I draw a green hill lined with a dirt path and evergreen trees to the bottom corner. I couldn’t be happier with this final addition: the blue butt looms large against the night sky.
My efforts at interviewing the fellow Toke N Paint participants are futile: the two other people at my table are immersed in the joys of high painting, and it feels rude to interrupt their mellow daze; a pair at the back of the room, whom I guess to be a mother-daughter duo, speak quietly to each other while sharing a joint.
Later, I talk to Kee in a side room at the venue. She’s proud of Toke N Paint’s success, and describes the joys that have come from it. For Kee, one of the most rewarding aspects of this project has been seeing guests’ surprising creativity in such a low-stakes environment. “We have this one picture that I love,” says Kee about one of the prepared outlines that guests can paint. “It’s been done about seven, eight times, but you would never know it’s that same picture. So many people can see so many different things in that one picture,” she says.
Kee has high hopes for the venture — she considers it a kind of growing franchise. She sees others beginning to pick up on it, even naming their events “Toke N Paint.” “We see a lot of people doing it. I don’t mind; we know where it came from,” she says. Her dream is to take the Toke N Paint “on the road,” she explains, maybe as a tour bus, but at least to bring it to more locations. “I just see it getting bigger and bigger and better,” she says.
Toke N Paint is only one of Kee’s many ventures. An up-and-comer in Boston’s cannabis scene, and one of a new generation of Black entrepreneurs, she’s working on opening her own dispensary, which she expects to start running next year. She’s also starting two podcasts alongside the Candy Man: one on “weed politics,” a morning show that sits at the intersection of cannabis industry news and larger headlines, and another called “Bars and Blunts,” that seeks to highlight local musicians invested in the cannabis industry.
This wasn’t always Kee’s plan. She says that she was selling weed on the black market until Boston attorney and activist Shanel Lindsay, who serves on the Massachusetts Cannabis Advisory Board, approached her and encouraged her to go legal. Eventually, she enrolled in the Massachusetts Cannabis Control Commission’s Social Equity Program, where she attended workshops, classes, and trainings on cannabis entrepreneurship in Massachusetts.
The program shifted Kee’s perspective in a number of ways: she became knowledgeable on the difficulties of cannabis cultivation and learned the upsides of relying on automation instead of additional employees. “I did almost a year of classes with them,” Kee says. “I feel like they give you the knowledge, the tools that you need, to get ready to come out on this crazy world.”
Even though she decided to scale down her business plan, she says, “It made me also believe that you don’t have to go so big to get into the cannabis world.”
After finishing the program, she started a virtual meetup called “Smoke and Network” that allowed cannabis entrepreneurs to compare experiences in the industry, offer each other advice, and, presumably, smoke. Kee highlights the underrepresentation of Black people within the weed industry — fewer than 2 percent of cannabis entrepreneurs are Black — and her hopes of seeing that number expand into double digits.
“They’re going through the same thing, so they understand most likely where you’re coming from,” Kee says of her fellow entrepreneurs from the Social Equity Program. Being around them helps her stay motivated; when she’s having trouble, “they’ll be like, ‘Oh, no no no, I got this for you. Don’t worry about it.’”
The camaraderie among these entrepreneurs serves as a kind of buffer — a buffer people of color shouldn’t have to create, Kee points out — against the atmosphere of an industry that has historically marginalized Black people and the ongoing effects of the War on Drugs’ criminalization of Black cannabis users.
For Kee, this is just the beginning.
“I probably quit cannabis, I want to tell you, probably maybe 99 times,” Kee says. But the support of her fellow Social Equity Participants kept her going. “We made a pact that we was gonna leave no one behind, and for the last two years that’s what we’ve been doing.”
— Magazine Editor-at-Large Josie F. Abugov can be reached at josie.abugov@thecrimson.com.
Sections
“Coffee is definitely best served unionized,” says Ryan Morrison-Mckell, an employee at Cambridge coffee shop Darwin’s Ltd.
The unionization movement is picking up steam in Boston-area coffee shops. In recent months, the owners of Pavement and Darwin’s — two chains with locations in Cambridge — voluntarily recognized their shops’ unions. Both unions are now currently in contract negotiations with their ownership.
Since then, several other coffee shops have initiated the process of forming unions. In December 2021, workers at three coffee shops in Somerville — Diesel Café, Bloc Café and Forge Baking Company — asked their shared management to voluntarily recognize them as a union. Two Boston-area Starbucks locations also announced their intention to unionize in December 2021, followed by another two locations a month later. Most recently, City Feed and Supply, a cafe and deli in Jamaica Plain, launched its own effort to unionize in March 2022.
Morrison-Mckell says service workers are being asked to take on heavier workloads to increase their companies’ profit margins.
“There’s always a tendency via ownership to cut corners through cutting of labor, to put more and more on their current employees’ shoulders to generate more and more profits,” he says. “Eventually what seems to almost always happen is that pressure gets too much, you have big releases, and people end up having to quit and move on, mostly because it just becomes an untenable work space.”
Mary-Kate McGeary, a member of Pavement’s bargaining committee who works at its Harvard Square location, says the Covid-19 pandemic served as a catalyst for the coffee shop unionization movement.
“Throughout the entire pandemic, people that went to work every day for food service were considered essential employees,” McGeary says. “But we’d be at jobs where our owners refused to give us any Covid safety or to pay us enough to live in the Boston area, or have health care at a time when it’s so vital in the United States — and anywhere — to have health care.”
Pavement President Andrew LoPilato wrote in a statement that Pavement provides medical and dental health care to its full-time employees.
“We provide KN95 masks to our employees and require vaccination, except for medical or religious reasons,” LoPilato wrote. “Throughout the pandemic, we’ve followed or exceeded all state and CDC guidelines including indoor mask mandates, limiting dine-in, and providing emergency sick time for employees.”
“We work hard to ensure our employees’ hours and scheduling needs are met, including providing hours throughout the winter and omicron wave when business was extremely slow,” LoPilato wrote.
Darwin’s Ltd. did not respond to a request for comment.
While McGeary says the health risks posed by the Covid-19 pandemic were “the driving factors” for unionization, she makes clear that the movement is “about more than just Covid protocols and getting more money.”
“It’s about getting protected in your workplace, knowing that you can’t get your hours cut at any notice,” she says. “It’s about being able to get the health care you not only desperately need, but that you deserve.”
According to McGeary, gender-affirming health care for transgender and non-binary people is one of Pavement’s biggest demands in their contract negotiations.
“Pavement is known as a very queer space,” she says. “And that’s not included in our current health care plans or offered as something that could be covered.”
Kvêten Nerudova, another employee at Darwin’s, says the coffee shop unionization movement owes its momentum to Pavement.
“Pavement laid the groundwork in Massachusetts for the rest of the organizing that is happening right now,” she says. “Darwin’s formed a union partially because Pavement formed a union, because that was now an option.”
“Pavement showed that this isn’t something that we could just aspire to, and that this wasn’t something that was just a fluke,” Nerudova adds.
McGeary notes that union victories don’t occur in a vacuum and that each successful contract negotiation and each successful union formation helps the movement.
“Seeing other cafes succeed and seeing what they’re able to negotiate is really inspiring,”
McGeary says. “But it also helps with our contracts in negotiating rooms with the lawyers to be able to say, ‘Well, this is what a cafe has already agreed to. This is the future of unionized coffee, and you simply have to agree to it.’”
Morrison-Mckell says that since Pavement and Darwin’s are two of the first coffee shops to be negotiating for a contract in the Massachusetts region, they are trying to “establish what would be an industry standard across the board.”
“It’s a little bit unique because it has not been done in this industry before,” he says. “We are thinking and talking about things that really may not be included in a lot of average contracts.”
“So a lot is at stake when it comes down to it,” he adds.
Once Pavement and Darwin’s are able to secure some of their demands, Morrison-Mckell says he believes it will help the unionization movement pick up further steam.
“As these first couple of contracts actually get signed, it’s going to give a lot of other people the ammunition and the material they need,” he says.
Morrison-Mckell says customers should support the movement as well, because coffee shops with unions will be able to “retain” employees who are truly passionate about making coffee.
“Anything that’s going to help employees be secure in their jobs, make a living wage where they can continue to pursue this as a drive and a passion,” he says, “is going to make better coffee.”
Sections
When the Harvard Institute for Learning in Retirement prepared to put on a production of “The Tempest” at the Cambridge Public Library Auditorium, Helen E. Bakeman, a student at the institute, was unsatisfied with the minimal roles for women in the play. She wanted to audition for a riotous character — someone novel and thrilling. So she tried out for the role of Caliban, the villainous son of a witch.
“I thought ‘No, I want to play a teenage monster boy,’” she says, adding, “And where else are a bunch of 70-year-olds going to be able to get parts and play as teenage boys? Nowhere else.” During the audition, she mimicked Caliban by jumping and running around onstage. Ultimately, she says, “I made a total fool of myself and got the part.”
Reflecting on her theatrical endeavor, Bakeman remarks, “Caliban is rough and gruff. He gets drunk in the play. He recites poetry. He’s brazen…It was the last Shakespeare play I think I will do, and it was the most fun I’ve had in years.”
Like most students at the HILR, Bakeman began taking courses after she retired from a varied professional life in project management as well as social science research and consulting. A self-proclaimed workaholic, she didn’t want to marinate in her sudden free time without a sense of purpose. She saw retirement as a time for rejuvenation, not stagnation, and eagerly immersed herself in the intensive and exploratory learning model of HILR.
The student body at the HILR is composed of retired professionals like Bakeman seeking to broaden their minds together through a classic liberal arts education model. The 550 students lead and attend the more than 120 peer-led courses and enrichment activities that the program offers.
Linda S. Sultan, for instance, rediscovered the joys of reading literary classics through the HILR.
She shocked a young family member when she told them she had read all seven volumes of Marcel Proust’s novel “In Search of Lost Time,” infamous for its length of 4,215 pages.
While Sultan studied literature, Bakeman dived into a course on the Civil Rights movement, then waded into more personal territory by taking courses on immigration. “My parents were Holocaust refugees, so I grew up thinking about immigration, and so I’ve remained interested in it,” she says. In one class, students chose an immigrant group to research and present to their peers. This final project later inspired her to read and research autobiographies written by former African American slaves.
As another intellectual challenge, Bakeman is currently taking a course on Jacob Lawrence, a Black artist who painted “The Migration Series,” which portrays the Great Migration of Black Americans from the South to the North. Art history is a realm largely unfamiliar to her, and she wants to learn to appreciate art on a deeper level. “I go to a museum and I know what I like, but that’s very different than really standing in front of a painting and saying ‘Okay, what am I seeing? What’s it telling me?’” she says, adding, “I think when I go to museums, I’ll do it differently now.”
In many ways, the HILR is an exemplary model of the traditional liberal education that values the virtue of learning for personal fulfillment and growth, rather than for professional development. There are no exams or essays. The HILR encourages students to teach classes of their own. Students refer to these classes as study groups, and everyone contributes to discussion. According to Bakeman, her peers “aren’t afraid in a class to say ‘I don’t think I understood this part in the reading. Could we talk about it a little bit, or could someone explain it to me?’”
David F. Bliss, another student, enjoys the community aspect of HILR’s teaching method. “We don’t distinguish between those who are the teachers and those who are the learners. We’re all learners in a sense,” he says. After a career as a scientist with a Ph.D in material science and engineering, the HILR gave Bliss a chance to shift subject matter and study social science.
“This is a part of my learning experience that I wasn’t really engaged in in my working life, so this gave me the opportunity to indulge in the world culture, the canon of literature that is out there that I had not been able to read or didn’t have time to read when I was working, so it’s really been a wonderful, broadening experience,” Bliss says.
Bliss had the chance to lead a course on evolution, blending the sciences and humanities by focusing on how the theory affected both American writers and scientists. He also co-taught a course on Leonardo da Vinci — while his co-teacher, who was an artist, discussed the aesthetics of the paintings, Bliss analyzed the science and engineering aspects of da Vinci’s notebooks.
Bakeman, too, was inspired to spearhead her own course. She taught a class on the Triangle Shirtwaist Factory fire of 1911, an industrial disaster in New York City that claimed 146 lives, most of them female workers. After first hearing about the catastrophe, Bakeman says she went down a research rabbit hole, looking into the historical forces at the time of the tragedy, including the women’s movement, labor movement, industrialization, and immigration. Bakeman wanted to lead this course “as a way to pull together all these strands of American history,” she says.
Sultan is always impressed by her classmates’ enthusiasm and preparedness. Ten minutes before each class begins, she says everyone has already arrived, ready to discuss. “It’s much better than undergrad. I think partly because we have the time to do it, but, you know, it’s so much more interesting at this stage in life because we’ve traveled more,” she says. “We’ve lived longer.”
Sections
A silent fight is unfolding within the storefronts of Massachusetts Avenue.
On a short walk from the Quad to the Porter T stop, at least a dozen posters hanging in shop windows accuse the City of Cambridge of planning to “give away Porter Square.” The signs, distributed by a group called Porter Square Safety For All, have gone up over the past several months in opposition to a city plan that might seem like a crowd-pleaser: the construction of separated bike lanes along the entirety of Mass Ave.
In 2019, citing the need to “eliminate fatalities and injuries on City streets” and promote environmentally-friendly transportation, the Cambridge City Council passed the Cycling Safety Ordinance, which requires the construction of 22.6 miles of new separated bicycle lanes by May 2026. The law and its amendments, which expanded the project to encompass all of Mass Ave., have highlighted the difficulties of urban planning and transportation improvements when street space is a precious and limited commodity.
Opposition to the bike lane project largely comes from local business owners, who worry that the proposal will eliminate crucial parking spaces and drive down business. The Cycling Safety Ordinance leaves open several possible ways for the city to meet the bike lane requirement, including “quick-build bike lanes” (which separate cyclists from cars using temporary posts) and “construction” or “partial build” methods (which involve digging up the street to create a more permanent reconfiguration).
If the city fails to approve a construction timeline by April 30, the Ordinance requires the installation of quick-build lanes in the area surrounding Porter Square — a solution that, in some parts of the road, would remove virtually all curbside parking and loading spaces.
Charlie H. Bassile, the owner of Charlie’s Barbershop near Porter Square, worries that it will be “almost impossible to survive” such a sharp reduction in parking spots. Throughout his roughly 20 years of owning a business in Cambridge, Bassile says parking shortages have posed a consistent challenge. He feels that the city has rushed to a solution that will drastically reduce public access to his own business and others.
“I’ve been investing in that neighborhood for 30 years,” Bassile says. “I’m 55 years old now. I mean, for me to take my business somewhere else at this age — it’s almost impossible.”
Small businesses’ need for parking spaces has come into conflict with competing city interests: promoting road safety and encouraging more sustainable forms of travel. Chris A. Cassa, an assistant professor at Harvard Medical School and a volunteer with Cambridge Bicycle Safety, says he and others were drawn to cycling advocacy because of firsthand experience with the “stress” and “close calls” of biking on unprotected Cambridge streets. According to Cambridge Bicycle Safety, first responders attend to around 160 bicycle crashes each year.
“There are many, many people in Cambridge who have expressed that they’d love to bike more, but they just don’t feel safe,” Cassa says. Bike ridership has steadily increased in Cambridge for several decades and surged over the course of the pandemic, but according to Cassa, city planning hasn’t kept pace with residents’ changing lifestyles.
“The road design of Mass. Ave was made a really long time ago,” Cassa says, “and cities evolve and need to grow and need to reflect the uses of people that want to use the road.”
Makayla L. Comas, the community engagement manager at Livable Streets Alliance, agrees that separated bike lanes are a necessary adaptation for a city whose residents increasingly rely on bikes.
“​​People are biking, and that is just how folks in more urban areas are getting around these days,” Comas says. According to her, the remaining question is how to make these cyclists safer while meeting the needs of other groups.
It’s easy to interpret the controversy over the bike lane proposal as a black-and-white battle between two opposing camps — business owners on one side, cyclists on the other. But a closer look at the landscape of Massachusetts Avenue and the city at large reveals a much more nuanced problem. Somerville resident John R. Pecchia, for example, straddles the divide: as the owner of Get In Shape For Women, a local personal training studio, and a cyclist himself, he personally feels both the benefits and drawbacks of the proposal.
“My happy medium, personally, would be to still be able to see the bike lanes come in and become a better opportunity for bicyclists and pedestrians and automobiles,” Pecchia says. But he worries that the quick-build option will make his gym less accessible to out-of-town customers, and he feels that Cambridge hasn’t fully considered the potential burden on shops already reeling from the Covid-19 pandemic.
“I think a lot of the other businesses feel a little burned,” Pecchia says, “feeling like they’re just getting out of that hump, and now they’re going to have to try and pivot and then figure out how to navigate this extra chapter.”
Facing this complex intersection of needs, a group of Cambridge residents, business owners, and cycling advocates have banded together in an effort to promote a compromise. Mass Ave for All represents a local coalition arguing for a “partial build” option: removing the median from the center of Mass Ave. to make room for permanent bike lanes while maintaining about half the current street parking. The group’s website argues for a shift in priorities on Mass Ave. — away from private vehicle throughput and toward “safety for people traveling by public transportation, foot, or bicycle.”
For Cassa of Cambridge Bike Safety (which has supported Mass Ave. for All’s proposal), this marks a crucial shift.
The coalition, Cassa says, is focused on “making Mass Ave. just a nicer place to be, and not just being a regional highway for cars, and turning it into a place that people want to visit.” He points out that business owners often assume most of their customers arrive by car, when in reality, city data shows that only a third of Porter Square shoppers drive there — the rest are pedestrians, cyclists, and transit riders.
City Councilor and former Mayor Marc C. McGovern, who has advocated for protected bike lanes, believes that proactive communication and mitigation efforts from the city are key to building bridges between these various groups.
“That will alleviate a lot of the anxiety people have, if we say, ‘Look, we’re taking away 50 parking spaces, but we’re adding 30 of them back,’” McGovern says. This could be a real option, he explains, if the city leases private parking spaces and offers them to the public. “Everybody is going to have to give a little something to make this work,” he adds.
Comas agrees that building trust between the city government and the public will be crucial to resolving the Mass Ave. bike lane debate, as well as other road safety efforts in the future.
“If we, as a region, are going to push for affordable and sustainable transportation methods, planners also need to create community buy-in,” Comas says. “And there was no community buy-in, in particular from the loudest bit of the community, which was the business owners.”
Public controversy notwithstanding, the Cycling Safety Ordinance is settled law. Whether or not the city reaches a compromise on construction, protected bike lanes of some kind will be built along Mass Ave. in the next several years. Along less controversial sections of the road, 2.6 miles have already been installed. Still, many advocates on all sides agree that the tensions over the proposal reveal important lessons for the future.
“This is a way to really transform the urban corridor into something that works better for everyone,” Cassa says, “not just people in cars.”
McGovern agrees that Cambridge is at a turning point, with decision-makers rethinking the purpose of the city’s main artery.
“Cities are living, breathing things. They change, they evolve,” McGovern says. “The Cambridge of today isn’t the Cambridge of 20 years ago, or 40 years ago, and that’s okay. That’s what vibrant cities do.”
— Magazine writer Tamar Sarig can be reached at tamar.sarig@thecrimson.com.
Sections
Sections
Matine Khalighi ’25 was only 14 when he decided to become a certified fitness instructor.
“I was a chubby middle schooler, so my mom would drag me to the gym to attend her classes. I had a lot of fun with group fitness and was the youngest person working out with adults in their twenties, thirties, and even forties,” Khalighi says.
Now a freshman at Harvard, he is one of only three undergraduate fitness instructors on campus and teaches seven to nine classes per week across the Harvard Recreation facilities.
The summer before high school, Khalighi decided it was time for him to learn how to teach fitness classes. But he struggled to find a certification program that would take him on, since most general fitness programs are restricted to adults. He eventually signed up to train under the Les Mills BodyPump instructor training program.
“I had to reach out to the manager of my fitness gyms, other nearby gyms, and even the HR Director of Les Mills to ask for enrollment permission,” he says.
After attending many training sessions, auditioning at local gyms, and substituting for other instructors, Khalighi eventually led his first general fitness class a few months later. Now, with six years of experience under his belt, he confidently walks people through various strength, cardio, HIIT, and core conditioning sessions at Harvard.
Since the start of the school year, Khalighi has been juggling fitness and teaching on top of a heavy course load. Despite his busy schedule, fitness is still a core part of Khalighi’s college routine. “I don’t look at fitness as part of my extracurriculars. It’s an important part of my health, confidence, and lifestyle,” he says.
Before teaching a class, he makes a mental outline of what he wants his students to focus on.
“I want to be strategic with what I am pushing them to do, so they can see the progression from their hard work from last week,” Khalighi says. “At the same time, I'm also cognizant of how much I should push them every week.”
He acknowledges that regularly teaching fitness classes can strain the body and therefore strives to strike a balance between his job and health. “I have to figure out which days am I pushing hard and which days am I just the instructor facilitating a group,” he says. “[It’s important to] give your body also the grace that you’re not going to get stronger overnight, and it’s going to take some time before you start seeing the results.”
In addition to getting to challenge himself physically, a major reason he enjoys the job is the opportunity to empower others to improve their fitness. Every week, Khalighi strives to foster a competition-free community in his studio space, where everyone can come together and challenge themselves regardless of their body type or strength level.
According to Khalighi, the most rewarding part of the job is seeing the excitement in the studio and hearing people cheering each other on as class progresses. His Monday classes at the Hemenway gym are usually the liveliest, he says, as they are attended by his regulars who come back every week.
Besides the communal aspect, Khalighi says teaching fitness has had a huge impact on his and others’ mental wellbeing. He sees fitness as an opportunity for both him and his students to focus inward instead of comparing themselves to others.
“At Harvard, it’s so easy to be bogged down by so many things, but when I enter the studio, I leave whatever upsets me at the door,” Khalighi says. “The feeling everybody feels after working out is very good. You feel strong. You open up so many mental spaces.”
Khalighi intends to continue leading fitness classes throughout his four college years and even beyond his time at Harvard.
“Getting to where I am right now does take a long time and preparation, but it’s very rewarding,” he says.
Sections
At the end of 2021, a year in which I had seen Jeff Bezos go to space, broken up with my partner of 18 months, witnessed mass preventable death on an unfathomable scale, learned the name of the blooming dysthymic revulsion that I had felt toward my body for years but never quite pinned down, destroyed my car during an Instacart delivery, and started wearing makeup, the thing that finally broke me was a YouTube video of a guy who bought a lobster from one of those live lobster tanks at the supermarket and, instead of eating it, nursed it back to health.
He named the lobster Leon. “Later,” he said, “if I find out it’s female, I’ll call it Leona.” I was watching from the floor of my childhood bedroom. Leon’s claw muscles had atrophied from being rubber-banded together, so the guy did physical therapy with him, prodding each claw with a suction tube and gradually introducing foods that required greater dexterity to eat, from worms to live clams.
After two weeks, Leon had regained a full range of motion. When he became curious about his surroundings, decorating the tank with pebbles and discarded shells, I started crying and I didn’t stop.
It was the ease with which the guy had done it. How simple it was for him to care for this animal, and even then, how unexpected it was that he would. How it hadn’t occurred to me that something so close to death could be saved. Still, I felt embarrassed and more than a little surprised: that I was losing it over a viral video from YouTube’s default Recommended page, that it had been more than a year since I had cried for real.
***
Not that I hadn’t wanted to. Over the summer, I had been driving with my mom north from Santa Barbara to the Bay Area. That stretch of the 101 is mostly beautiful, except for the section between San Luis Obispo and Salinas, where it drifts away from the coast and into a lot of needlegrass and construction work.
This was where we were when my mom, whom I love deeply, said, “Are you still depressed?” Cool. It was a question she would spring sometimes, out of nowhere, since she knew I had been depressed but not specifically why.
I said I felt fine.
She said, “Do you want to try using the app they give me through work?” The app was one of the dozen lookalike meditation-slash-journaling hubs that had blown up during the pandemic; work was the job she had started doing part-time a few years back because it was causing her too much stress, then switched back to full-time when it became clear that she was putting in the same number of hours, only without being paid.
I said I would be interested in trying the app. I didn’t realize that she meant right now until she tapped something and a man’s voice started coming from the car speaker.
The voice announced that we were going to begin the meditation session. I glanced at my mom, then, since I was still driving, back at the road: rows of farmland and a few billboards hawking cough drops. The Adopt-A-Highway sign was dedicated to a local prison warden. The mist from the irrigation lines hovered like a cloud layer.
“Slowly close your eyes,” the man said, “and start to focus on your breathing.” I was going 20 miles over the speed limit. My nails were painted this dark purplish blue and it looked like I had bruised them. I tried to focus on my breathing. We flew past a dead raccoon that had been crushed against the median, then another. I kept seeing more, and I wondered if Soledad’s animal population was having a particularly rough day, or if it had always been this bad and I had just never noticed.
The man said, “Now imagine a light moving down your body, starting at the top of your head.” I made a cursory attempt, following the light from eyes to nose to mouth, but I stopped when I got to my jawline. There was something stuck there, maybe myself, and I didn’t have the space to figure out what to do about it. I looked at my mom again.
***
That was also the year I destroyed and rebuilt my understanding of myself. It was an act of expansion: broadening my horizons, my hips, my relationship to grief. For one thing, I have never cried much, and I used to see this restraint as a protective mechanism. I liked that when bad things happened, I could handle them with a level head. But in the course of my expansion, I lost interest in the kind of protection that analgesia offered.
So Leon was cleaning the algae from his tank and I was bawling like the world’s most jaded baby and I was remembering driving with my mom and other moments, dozens of them, where I had needed to cry and found myself unable to.
The inability to physically pass was one thing. While the inability to cry was also a problem of personal autonomy, running into it over and over felt almost worse, because it seemed like it should have been surmountable. I was looking for catharsis. I dreamed of no longer having a body, but I would settle for having mine do what I wanted, and, crying in my room, I couldn’t tell if what had happened was progress or just the bursting of a dam.
Coming to college has not really answered this question, but it has deepened my understanding of a related one, which is why the lobster video had the effect on me that it did. There’s this tendency here to commodify gender into its constituent parts, to latch onto and elevate different markers of identity in a way that feels self-interested, more taxonomical than anything. Even when this tendency is compassionate, it can seem reductive, since the markers never add up to the big picture. I am hesitant to linger on pronouns or trichotomy or the shape of my throat when what I really want is for someone to lift me up out of the supermarket tank and take me home. Teach me to cry or bury me in saltwater deep enough to approximate it.
***
The lobster guy’s name is Brady. He’s still posting video updates, and I check on the two of them occasionally, like an older sibling or a clingy ex. Leon has moved to a bigger tank, fought through illness, played games to test his intelligence. As of March, he has larger claws and a shell free of rubber-band scars: At some point in the interim period, he had molted.
— Magazine writer Benjy Wall-Feng can be reached at benjy.wall-feng@thecrimson.com. Follow them on Twitter @wallfeng.
Sections
Sameer Khan ’24 will be fasting on his birthday, and he can’t wait. “[Ramadan] is a celebration of faith and devotion to Islam, and I’m really excited to plan my birthday around this,” he says. “It would be interesting to celebrate turning 20 at a 5 a.m. suhoor meal in the morning. I’m looking forward to it.”
Two years since the pandemic called off much-anticipated religious observations, Muslim students on campus have been celebrating the full return of an in-person Ramadan, breaking their fast nightly at the Student Organization Center at Hilles. For many Muslim freshmen and sophomores on campus, this is their first Ramadan away from home. For Khan, this month marks his first Ramadan observation at Harvard and first religious celebration that coincides with his birthday.
Ramadan begins with the sighting of a new crescent moon, which happens in the ninth month of the Islamic calendar. This religious period is regarded as the holiest month in the Islamic culture; many Muslims believe that it marks the time when the Quran, the Islamic holy book, was revealed to the Prophet Muhammad in 601 AD.
“Through fasting, praying and self-reflections, we build stronger connections with God and realize that there’s more to life rather than the immediate things that you interact with,'' Fouzia Gaza ’22 says. This year, Ramadan began on the evening of Saturday, April 2 and ended on Monday, May 2 with Eid al-Fitr celebrations, the “Feast of Breaking the Fast” that concludes the month spent fasting from dawn to sunset.
Beyond taking time for introspection, many Muslim students also dedicate this time to growing closer to their community. Every night, they congregate in the main hall of the SOCH to sit iftar, post-sunset dinners organized by Harvard’s Muslim Chaplains in collaboration with Crimson Catering and Harvard University Dining Service. The diverse menu has included Egyptian, Turkish, American, and Chinese cuisine.
“This year is the first time we are doing Ramadan iftar dinners for all 30 nights of Ramadan,” says Khalil Abdur-Rashid, one of the Muslim chaplains. “It’s very crowded, and we are so thankful to have a team of volunteers to make this happen.”
The iftar dinner I attended this past week was just as the chaplain described it: crowded, chaotic, and above all, cozy.
In the main hall and prayer room, little kids ran up and down, laughing and playing. Outside, students, family, and friends formed lines stretching across the SOCH to get food. Then, sitting with arms and elbows touching around the long table, they happily shared a sumptuous meal after the long fast. Before the call to prayers at around 8:45 p.m., groups of friends gathered in circles in the prayer room to catch up and share about their days. Amid a bustling and busy campus beyond, the communal atmosphere during the iftar brought a moment of warmth and peace.
“Seeing people from all different Harvard schools across all backgrounds and nationalities has been a wonderful experience,” says Sana Shahul ’25, a freshman who has been volunteering at the iftar dinners since the start of Ramadan.
Besides dining in the SOCH, some students also gather to cook their suhoor meal each morning in Mather House. Gaza and her roommate, Hayat Alkadir ’22, both Mather residents, have been hosting early morning sehri (a Pakistani term for suhoor) for Muslim students living in the River houses. HUDS provides food for students to prepare hot suhoor/sehri in their designated house kitchen early every morning.
In addition, the Muslim chaplains also work with HUDS to arrange meals for students. Students can pick up a pre-made suhoor bag with a hard-boiled egg and bagel with cream cheese, to eat the next morning before sunrise.
However, many students are still facing difficulties celebrating Ramadan during a busy semester with such irregular eating and sleep schedules.
Raza says she is excited to see many new changes now that celebrations are in-person, and she is grateful for the iftar and suhoor preparations Harvard has implemented. However, she believes that the school could be more communicative about bag meal pick-up places, increase house kitchen access, and improve employee awareness of Muslim students’ Ramadan celebration during the month.
Omar Zeidan ’25 also mentioned the possibility of extending dinner hours past 7:30 p.m. such that hot food options are still available for Muslim students when they break their daily fast, if they don’t have time to go all the way to the SOCH. “We break our fast at like 7:20, so that gives us 10 minutes to get food,” he says. Zeidan will often take his food to go and reheat it later.
In response to these criticisms, Crista Martin, HUDS Director for Strategic Initiatives and Communication, said in an email correspondence that the dining service welcomes this feedback for improvement, and will “work to continuously improve supports for the diverse needs of our community.”
The chaplains are working with Harvard to improve their Ramadan programming from this feedback. They continue to raise religious literacy in the community by leading trainings for HUDS managers and University employees, as well as by having conversations with students about Ramadan.
“I think we appreciate being together as a community and we appreciate the [University] support, and I can tell you that our Muslim students seem to really appreciate the idea of not having to worry about what they will eat for iftar, and instead enjoying meeting other students and members of community,” chaplain Samia Omar says.
Sections
“Eden! Come talk to your grandma,” my mother yells.
My heart instantly floods with anxiety. While I am excited to speak to a family member from Ethiopia, my parents’ home country, I’m afraid that my lack of mastery over the motherland’s language will make the conversation brief.
I take a deep breath, taking time to ease my nerves, reminding myself that it is my lack of confidence that hinders me more than my lack of understanding.
I grab the phone and begin in tentative Amharic, “Hello? Can you hear me?”
Immediately, I hear my grandmother’s voice in the lilting mother tongue, filled with traditional conversation starters that I recognize.
“How are you? How is your family? How is school?” she asks.
“Good. Good. Good. How are you and your family?” I respond bluntly, the fluency I had as a child traded in for an elementary proficiency — understanding everything that is said to me, but struggling to piece together an advanced response.
As the conversation comes to a close, my limited vocabulary quickly exhausted, I am filled with a sense of shame. Here I am at Harvard, every Habesha parent’s dream, but my lack of connection to my language is every Habesha parent’s nightmare.
My head swims with thoughts of my grandmother as I walk up the stairs to my bedroom. I used to look forward to our phone calls and the chance to connect with someone from back home. But as the years went on, and I began to replace Amharic with English, this excitement slowly turned into dread.
Both my parents immigrated from Ethiopia to the United States before I was born. They were the lucky ones, receiving diversity visas and the chance to start anew in the alleged “land of the free” and “home of the brave.” Coming to America was not easy; it forced them to leave behind everything they had ever known — their friends, their family, their home.
Since immigrating to the United States, they have worked to maintain their ties to Ethiopian culture, turning our house into a refuge for family members coming to the States, filling our fridge with injera and whet, and speaking in their native tongue, Amharic, at home.
As a child, my fluency was unparalleled, going so far as forgetting English when we came back from visiting the motherland. As I grew up, however, this identity became a sort of secret shame. It was hard enough to be Black in predominantly white settings, my presence in spaces always questioned and criticized. To be Black and the daughter of immigrants was worse, the label of “foreign” building an additional wall between me and my peers. I was young and my pride in my homeland was fragile. In exchange for acceptance, I succumbed to the pressures of assimilation and sacrificed the pieces of culture that my parents had worked hard to protect.
The power of language cannot be underestimated. It’s the foundation of a culture, binding its members to one another. Its loss made me, the eldest daughter of two immigrants, feel like everything my parents had done in coming to this country and working to keep their culture alive was for naught.
As a child, I was willing to do anything to abide by white supremacist standards of palatability; now I know that there are some prices too steep to pay — like losing my connection to my grandmother, my family, and my home.
Since coming to college, however, I have realized that I have not truly lost the language to the extent that I feared. Through conversations with Habesha staff members on campus or visiting relatives in Boston, I am learning that it is my perfectionism and fear of failure that hold me back.
Over spring break, while my friends and I were on vacation, we made a pit stop at a local convenience store for snacks. To my surprise, the cashiers were Habesha. One of the people on the trip with me was Habesha as well, and they started up a conversation with the cashiers, poking fun at my hesitancy to speak Amharic.
“Oh, she doesn’t speak the language that well,” they said with a smirk.
I rolled my eyes.
“No, I can speak it. They just love to talk,” I retorted with a smile.
“It’s good that you can speak! It’s important to know your language,” one of the cashiers responded.
I continued the conversation, asking them about the city and their experiences here. The pleasant surprise on their faces warmed my heart, reminding me of the importance of no longer letting my fear of making mistakes hinder me from reclaiming a language I once knew like the back of my hand.

— Magazine writer Eden A. Getahun can be reached at eden.getahun@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @edengetahun03.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Paul L. Choi ’86, a lawyer with expertise in corporate governance, will serve as the president of Harvard’s Board of Overseers for the next year, the University announced Monday. Leslie P. Tolbert ’73, a neuroscience professor, will serve as vice president.
The Board of Overseers — Harvard’s second-highest governing body — consists of 30 alumni who provide input on the direction of the school, advise top administrators, and approve certain actions by the Harvard Corporation. Choi and Tolbert were elected to the board in 2017 and will lead the body in the final year of their six-year terms.
The announcement comes in the middle of voting for new Board of Overseers members. Nine Harvard alumni are vying for six vacancies. Barring those already serving in University governance, all Harvard degree holders who received their degrees by Jan. 1 can vote. Voting closes May 17.
Six candidates were endorsed by the Coalition for a Diverse Harvard, a network of Harvard affiliates dedicated to increasing diversity and promoting equity at the University.
After graduating from Harvard College and Harvard Law School, Choi went on to clerk at the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals. Today, he is a partner at Sidley Austin, an international law firm, where he is a global co-head of its mergers and acquisitions practice and a member of the firm’s executive committee.
As a member of the Board of Overseers, Choi serves on several internal committees, including the body’s executive committee, institutional policy committee, and working group on elections. Choi has also served or is serving on visiting committees — groups of experts and alumni tasked with assessing schools and departments — across the University.
Before joining University governance, Choi served as president of the Harvard Alumni Association from 2015-2016 and sits on the dean’s leadership council at the Law School.
“It’s a tremendous honor and privilege to be elected as president of the Board of Overseers and to have the opportunity to serve the University and my fellow board members in this new role,” Choi said in an interview with The Harvard Gazette, a publication overseen by the University's public affairs department.
After Tolbert graduated from Harvard College with honors, she earned a Ph.D. in anatomy from the University and continued research at Harvard Medical School and the Faculty of Arts and Sciences. Tolbert then left Cambridge for Washington D.C., where she joined the faculty at the Georgetown University School of medicine before later moving to the University of Arizona, where she is a professor emerita today.
Tolbert’s research focuses on cellular and developmental neuroscience, namely the impact of sensory input on brain circuitry, the interactions of neurons and glial cells, and the development and plasticity of the olfactory system.
She has also held leadership positions at the University of Arizona, including senior vice president for research, interim dean of the graduate college, and chair of the campus-wide committee on neuroscience.
At Harvard, Tolbert serves on the executive board of the Board of Overseers and several other internal committees, including the committee on natural and applied sciences and visiting committee for the Harvard Library.
Choi said he is “grateful to have Leslie Tolbert, a distinguished scientist and wonderful colleague, as a partner in leading the board.”
University President Lawrence S. Bacow praised Choi and Tolbert in an interview with the Harvard Gazette, a University-run publication.
“Paul Choi and Leslie Tolbert have both served Harvard with uncommon devotion and distinction, especially during their past five years as Overseers,” he said. “Paul has deep experience with the governance of complex organizations, including Harvard, and a long record of leadership in alumni affairs. Leslie is a widely admired scientist, educator, and academic leader who has in recent years played a particularly valuable role in our visiting committee process.”
Choi and Tolbert succeed Helena Buonanno Foulkes ’86 and P. Lindsay Chase-Lansdale ’74. Foulkes is currently running for governor of Rhode Island.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
