News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
If you take a look at The Crimson’s opinion section, criticism of Harvard is the norm. In fact, it’s the preferred template for most pieces. Recent articles include calls for Harvard to install AC units for the unbearable September heat and even a nostalgic essay commenting on life before Harvard's schedule change, which made it necessary to attend class on-time.
To many outside the Harvard bubble, these complaints seem juvenile. Although the Editorial Board usually opines on issues far more serious than air conditioning, I oftentimes wonder how many people (myself included) possess genuine perspective. Perspective — an ingredient that is nearly impossible to pick out between the lines of any article — is the difference between meaningful commentary and whiny complaints.
If you’ve been keeping up with this column you will have noticed that I’ve spent a lot of time criticizing Harvard. My last piece was particularly harsh. I castigated Harvard for being one of the worst colleges in the country in terms of overall social mobility. The slight irony in writing this piece was transparent to me: I am a paradigmatic example of social mobility at Harvard while simultaneously criticizing the university on this very topic. The entire column has navigated this gray area, an odd region between my gratitude towards Harvard and a need to elucidate institutional failures.
My personal connection, and immense appreciation for Harvard, cannot be overstated. This school has always been a part of my surroundings; I grew up in Cambridge and attended high school merely a few steps away from the Yard. Harvard has allowed me to get a remarkable education without any concerns about cost. Unlike many of my closest friends from home, I will never have to worry about student debt or repaying my parents. I have been granted four years to explore, learn, and make connections with some of the brightest young minds in the country. Truly, it’s an experience that I don’t take for granted.
Harvard means even more to my family — far beyond the practical measures of affordability and commitment to financial aid. As many students of immigrant parents can attest, Harvard holds a near-mythical status. It stands alone at the peak of the American Dream cliché. Immigrants dream of coming to the United States and sending their kids to Harvard. For my mother, and the rest of her family, this was a reality. News of my acceptance spread like wildfire, and I could never picture a situation where my mother would criticize Harvard in any way.
This story, although highly personal, is not unique among Harvard students. Many low-income and first-gen students feel the same gratitude and have a clear understanding of how much Havard means to their family. Interestingly, this also implies that many students share in my hesitation to criticize Harvard  — a hesitancy that stems from a feeling of personal debt to the institution.
While the strain between gratitude and genuine complaints about Harvard is present for all students, it is particularly onerous for those receiving financial support from the school. When in a reflective mindset, it can feel difficult to complain about classes or deadlines when you attend college for free; it can even feel disingenuous. This tension, however real it may feel at times, shouldn’t exist. The entire purpose of financial aid is to remove worries about cost, not create emotional debt.
Part of an authentic Harvard experience is complaining about the college, making it better, and even writing a scathing column in The Crimson. We want Harvard to be a place where all students can participate equally in important activities, including the realm of productive criticism. In fact, it might be more important for those who hesitate to criticize Harvard to do so — complaints from these students are necessarily coming from a foundation of gratitude. Thus, we cannot let our acknowledgment of privilege impede our fair criticisms of Harvard, a reorientation especially necessary, and difficult, for students receiving support from the school.
Harold Klapper ’25 is an economics and philosophy double concentrator in Eliot House. His column “Practical Progressivism” usually appears on alternate Tuesdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Midterm elections are less than a week away, and politicians on both sides of the aisle are preemptively casting doubt about election results — about this cycle and in general.
While election denial has become a feature of Republican politics — former President Donald Trump has declared that the 2020 presidential election was fraudulent and FiveThirtyEight estimates that fewer than 14 percent of Republicans on the ballot this fall have unequivocally accepted Biden’s 2020 victory — we cannot ignore alarming anti-democratic rhetoric emerging from the opposite side of the aisle.
“Rightwing extremists already have a plan to literally steal the next presidential election,” former presidential candidate Hillary R. Clinton declared in a video that has been viewed by millions. In the Senate, Democrats are warning that the elections this month may be illegitimate because of voter suppression in states legislatively dominated by the GOP.
To be fair, Democrats’ concerns about the integrity of elections are certainly well-founded. In her video, Clinton seemed to be describing an impending Supreme Court ruling, Moore v. Harper, which experts caution could potentially give state legislatures the ability to override the popular vote in their states’ presidential elections and appoint electors of their choice to the Electoral College. This would be an unprecedented development that would entirely overturn the way our democracy functions. Senate Democrats are also sounding the alarm on a number of state bills that could restrict voting. But the way Democrats’ phrase their messaging about legitimate election concerns — seemingly drawn straight from the 2020 GOP playbook — is alarming.
When our country’s most visible politicians sow doubts about the legitimacy of our elections, as is happening in our current election cycle, it erodes faith in our democracy. When Trump and his allies spread misinformation about the results in 2020, it resulted in an attempted insurrection that cost the lives of five individuals; one year later, only 55 percent of Americans believed that Biden was fairly elected president. The new rhetoric on the left — no matter how well founded — is bound to cause similar disillusionment.
Beyond a breakdown in popular confidence in our democracy, doom and gloom election messaging threatens Americans’ ability to sympathize with their peers of differing political persuasions. When election results are chalked up to voter fraud, voter suppression, or the disproportionate natures of the Senate and Electoral College, the election results become tainted and the public may not lend credence to the concerns of the winning party. Even when politicians raise well-founded concerns about American voting, they run the risk of jettisoning voters’ critiques about their priorities and figureheads.
Denying elections’ legitimacy fosters echo chambers on both the political left and the right that make dialogue difficult, erodes respect for our peers, and renders national unity impossible.  That’s particularly bad given the deep existent political cleavages in American society. A Penn State study found that voters on both sides struggle to empathize with citizens of differing political beliefs already; denialism will hardly help.
While it is reasonable to worry about voter suppression and the Supreme Court’s ruling on election law, when Democrats perform poorly this cycle — as they are expected to — instead of crying foul play, they should self-introspect on a host of other factors that are contributing to voters’ feelings.
For instance, why is President Joe Biden’s approval rating so low? And why have one million voters switched their party registration to the GOP? What Democratic messaging is not working? And why are their candidates not garnering popular support?
To be fair, some of the projected midterm results can be explained by the historical tendency for the president’s party to perform poorly during midterm elections. Yet failing to assess the political salience of Democrats’ messages would be naive. The whole point of democracy is to force the losing party to ask questions when they lose elections and to allow the populace to hold them accountable. When election results are interpreted as a malicious attempt to subvert the popular will — rather than an indicator of popular belief itself — individuals can escape uncomfortable conclusions about the fallibility of their own ideology.
The task ahead for the Democratic Party is the delicate attempt to balance concern for voter suppression and undemocratic voting measures with a respect for voting results, which reflect a large degree of dissatisfaction with Democrats’ politics. While this task is difficult, there are some crucial measures the party should take.
One, it should never again fund election denialists within the GOP. While this strategy may be politically expedient in the short-term because it gives Democrats easier opponents in competitive seats, it simultaneously abets election denialists who spread misinformation, undermining American democracy overall.
Secondly, Democrats should end rhetoric that casts doubt on the legitimacy of elections. While concerns about voter suppression and legal challenges that could change American voting are valid, alarmist speech that totally disregards election results is reductionist and helps the party evade culpability for its lackluster performance.
On a macroscopic level, both parties should begin thinking seriously about election results instead of castigating external forces for their poor performance at the polls. This thought process may help partisans broaden their political appeal beyond their solid base.
At Harvard, where most students identify with the Democratic Party (55 percent of the Class of 2025 compared to only 5 percent who identify as Republican), the temptation to interpret the midterm result as not representative of actual national opinion is real. But we should avoid this trap and try to consider why other Americans might disagree with us. Doing so will help us identify what issues are affecting other Americans and will force us to reconsider the political stances we may take for granted.
Mark Twain once wrote, “whenever you find yourself on the side of the majority, it is time to pause and reflect.” Perhaps the same applies to the minority too.
Jacob M. Miller ’25 is a Crimson Editorial editor in Lowell House. His column “Diary from an Echo Chamber” appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Everyone, especially at Harvard, is anticipating the results of this week’s Supreme Court case regarding affirmative action in Harvard’s admissions. In the months to come, everything could potentially change about the demographic of students in higher education. Students for Fair Admissions, the plantiff, is suing Harvard for alleged discrimination towards Asian American Students. The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People is currently partnering with many student organizations to influence the Court’s vote and strategize how to move forward after the outcome. And, this past weekend, Harvard students traveled to Washington D.C. to defend our current admissions system. Needless to say, this decision will affect millions across the country.
We should not take this Supreme Court decision lightly. If affirmative action is struck from college admissions, the composition of Black college students is projected to be cut by over 50 percent. A world without race-based, class-based, and location-based admissions is a regressive society. Diversity in college admissions needs to be prioritized.
Yet saving affirmative action is only part of the solution. Though it is obviously important for college admissions, I see it as only a band-aid to a much larger issue in American education.
Colleges are not the only academic spaces that lack diversity. The reason why we need affirmative action in college admissions is the same reason we need equity movements in high schools, middle schools, elementary schools, and pre-schools. Some students are not granted the opportunity to seek higher education because they are deprived of adequate educational resources at a younger age.
If marginalized students received access to adequate resources before entering college, then affirmative action would be less significant in college admissions. Black students are twice as likely to go to high-poverty schools. Going from a school with minimal resources to a school with time-consuming course loads, extracurriculars, and more is unreasonable. Students who benefit from affirmative action, and are allowed to enter into these elite spaces, are granted access too late. There are students here that have to work twice as hard as students who went to elite and private middle schools and high schools because they had half the experience. They do this in sacrifice of their mental and physical health. Although colleges should continue to have race-conscious admissions and give under-resourced students a chance, they should not be forced to experience these opportunities under such daunting conditions.
Why should our schooling system start making sense at the college level? Private schools, which have the ability to apply affirmative action in their admissions, should be the first to tackle this issue — but often fail to do so. Phillips Academy in Andover, arguably the best private high school in America, has a student population that is less than 7 percent Black.
Although our current affirmative action system is not applicable to public schools, it is important to not forget those students either. Over 20 percent of Boston public school students do not graduate at all, but once you take a 30-minute drive to Wellesley, nearly every student in the town graduates.  Almost 90 percent of students in Boston public schools are students of color, and in Wellesley nearly 70 percent of the student population is white. There are drastic differences between schools that are only 30 minutes away from each other.
We need to fight for diversity and inclusion amongst all students, especially those who don’t have access to privatized and elite schools. Schools can determine the fate and livelihood of the students who have little other choice but to enroll in them.
Our education system will remain broken if we don’t start paying proper attention and care to preschool students all the way up to students in higher education. Yes, we should be in support of keeping affirmative action here at Harvard and at other colleges and universities. But this is simply not enough. Affirmative action is a shallow solution to a much deeper issue in the American education system. We are failing a larger demographic of students who deserve the same educational opportunities as everyone else.
Angie Gabeau ’25, a Crimson Editorial Editor, lives in Winthrop House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
On October 26, 1963, John F. Kennedy made a quick trip to break ground on the Robert Frost Library at Amherst College, where the poet had taught for over 40 years. Frost had been an early supporter of Kennedy’s presidential campaign and had delivered a poem at his inauguration.
Seemingly reminded of the poet’s advice to “be more Irish than Harvard,” Kennedy proclaimed, “Privilege is here, and with privilege goes responsibility.” At the time Kennedy spoke those words, he pointed out that the majority of private college students came from the nation’s wealthiest 10 percent, and income inequality had become extreme. “There is inherited wealth in this country,” JFK said, “and also inherited poverty.”
Kennedy drew a direct connection between this data and Frost’s life’s work. “The men who create power make an indispensable contribution to the Nation’s greatness,” he said, “but the men who question power make a contribution just as indispensable.” Kennedy then issued a challenge, which many of the students present recall as a transformative moment in their life: “Unless the graduates of this college and other colleges like it who are given a running start in life — unless they are willing to put back into our society those talents, the broad sympathy, the understanding, the compassion — into the service of the Great Republic, then obviously the presuppositions upon which our democracy are based are bound to be fallible.”
Some regarded it as the best speech of Kennedy’s career.
It was also one of the last.
***
Nearly 60 years later, the U.S. has made only limited progress in combating structural poverty and has seen inequality skyrocket. Elite colleges haven’t made any progress either — they remain the domain of the rich. Thirty-eight American colleges admit more students from the top 1 percent than the bottom 60 percent. At Harvard, more students come from families making over $500,000 per year than under $40,000. (For comparison, at The City University of New York, where I teach, 60 percent of students come from families earning less than $30,000 annually). The race data is no better. Overall, the Black population at elite colleges hasn’t significantly increased since the 1980s.
This is no accident, but rather the predictable consequence of conscious choices in admissions mechanisms, which have been laid bare by Students for Fair Admissions’ ongoing lawsuit against Harvard. At trial, SFFA’s expert witness, Richard Kahlenberg, testified to a race-neutral means by which Harvard could boost both socioeconomic and racial diversity: ending the admissions preference it gives to ALDCs — athletes and the children of alumni, donors, and faculty.
About 30 percent of Harvard students fall into this category including approximately 43 percent of white students. And ALDC tips are significant: The admit rate into Harvard’s freshman classes for 2014 through 2019 averaged merely 5.8 percent, but according to data produced in SFFA’s case, the College accepted nearly 34 percent of legacy applicants, 47 percent of faculty kids, and 86 percent of recruited athletes. Harvard’s own analysis indicates that the difference in admission rates between whites and Asians could be explained almost entirely by ALDC preferences.
Alas, Harvard said that ending ALDC tips would jeopardize important institutional interests. The U.S. District Court judge, a graduate of Middlebury College and University of Pennsylvania Law School, bought Harvard’s argument, though the University offered relatively weak evidentiary support for its claims. Harvard could have boosted diversity through other race-neutral mechanisms, such as expanding the size of its class or admitting some students on the basis of high school class rank. Instead, it doubled down on the status quo.
Now, it is overwhelmingly likely that the Supreme Court will end affirmative action. If it does, let history remember that it will be in part because of Harvard’s steadfast commitment to affirmative action for affluent whites.
***
Tempting as it may be to dwell on the data, I want to focus instead on the audience to whom Kennedy chose to deliver his message. Since the premature death of his son Patrick, JFK had traveled little beyond visits to his family compound in Cape Cod. For him to venture to Amherst, it must have seemed important to Kennedy that he deliver his message to whom he did.
It does to me too.
If you’re reading this in The Crimson, listen: Without you, nothing will change.
Universities are unlikely to change on their own. One of the most painful lessons of my book, “Poison Ivy: How Elite Colleges Divide Us,” is that college faculty and leaders tend to fall prey to the basic human tendencies to justify the system to which they belong and to believe that the world operates meritocratically.
If there is hope, it lies with you. But that hope is real.
College students have shaped the national agenda on the Vietnam War, divestment from South Africa, and criminal justice reform. Ultimately, colleges and universities are communities of students, faculty, and alumni. Change may not happen overnight, but it is possible.
So I call upon you to join in a great rethinking of college as we’ve known it. Of the 100 largest American nonprofits, twenty-six are a college, a university, or an affiliated corporation. Combined, these schools control nearly half-a-trillion dollars in assets. That’s about twice the gold bullion reserves in Fort Knox. Harvard’s endowment alone is worth about $51 billion. Whether race-based affirmative action ends or not, it’s time for you to demand that universities’ fortunes — amassed with tax breaks worth as much as $20 billion per year — be used as an instrument of class mobilization, not stratification. To fuel the American Dream rather than to thwart it.
Because, as President Kennedy asked: If not you, who? If not now, when?
Evan J. Mandery graduated from Harvard College in 1989 and Harvard Law School in 1992, and is currently a Professor in the Department of Criminal Justice at John Jay College of Criminal Justice.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Gregory Nagy is the Francis Jones Professor of Classical Greek Literature and Professor of Comparative Literature. In his time at Harvard, he has held various positions including Chair of the Classics department, Chair of the Committee on Degrees in Folklore and Mythology, and Faculty Dean of Currier House.
This interview has been edited for length and clarity.
FM: You’ve been teaching GENED 1074: “The Ancient Greek Hero” for nearly 50 years now. How do you keep the material fresh for yourself?
GN: I think my answer is that it’s the beautiful literature that keeps itself fresh, and it refreshes me! I started teaching Heroes, let’s say, 47 years ago, and I say that because I’ve been married to Holly for 47 years, and I feel the same way about her! It’s the freshness of making contact with beautiful systems of thinking, of feeling, including persons who are systems of thinking and feeling. So I just can’t get over it — it’s a lifetime thing.
FM: Why do you think it’s remained such a popular course?
GN: I’d say people will take the course because “hero” is such an important word in our vocabulary. The world of heroes back when is larger-than-life. And people are larger-than-life good, but when they’re bad, they’re larger-than-life bad as well. And if we sweep under the rug the bad parts of the heroic world, then we won’t understand why we have to keep processing and seeing what their mistakes were, just as we try to imitate what’s good about them. So, I just find it has a universal appeal that withstands all the changes of cultures and upheavals of society, and it’s comforting.
FM: What’s one thing people get wrong about Greek mythology?
GN: Very easy: “Somebody that I admire did something wrong, so they’re not my hero anymore.” That’s not a very Greek way of saying things, because a hero isn’t 100 percent admirable.
FM: You’ve injured your Achilles tendon. As someone who teaches the story of Achilles, are you reading anything into that area of injury?
GN: Ha! Well, you know, one very interesting thing is that of course in the Homeric “Iliad” that has come down to us, there’s no mention of the special death of Achilles. But in “Iliad 5,” there is an ambitious Trojan archer, and he takes aim and manages to wound Diomedes, who was an Achilles rival. And I am not saying this in the Homeric Greek, but essentially, Diomedes says “Haha, you’ve got the wrong hero!”
FM: Where is the source text we get the death of Achilles from?
GN: That comes from later texts based on what is called the epic cycle. Unfortunately, all we have is plot outlines, so what we have to do is reconstruct on the basis of references to the cycle. With the narrative of the Achilles heel, one of the questions I ask in the General Education course is what is the Achilles heel, what is his most vulnerable thing? And the smartest answer I ever got was Patroclus. When he dies, the world of Achilles falls apart.
FM: Do you think Achilles and Patroclus were lovers?
GN: Well, there is definite proof that at some stages in the evolution of the oral tradition they were homoerotic lovers. But in the fifth century, which is where the textual tradition crystallizes, the homoerotic element is filtered out. So there are stages, however, in the evolution of the Homeric poetic tradition where they are. Yes, they are.
FM: Your brother Joseph Nagy teaches in the Celtic department — can you pinpoint any aspect of your childhood or upbringing that contributed to your shared love of mythology?
GN: I can! I am 12 years older than he is, so he was the kid, and when he was in high school, I had a hard time deciding whether I want to spend my whole life with Greek and Latin civilization or with Celtic civilization. I said to him, hey, there’s a summer school course in medieval Irish. He took that course and was never the same, and so he did what I would have done if I hadn’t done Greek and Latin.
FM: So how did you first get into Homeric poetry?
GN: When I got into the Ph.D. program at Harvard, my graduate advisor said: “Well, young man, what kind of classics have you done? Have you read any Homer?” “No.” “Have you read any tragedy?” “No.” “Have you read any orators?” “No,” and on it went. So the first time I ever read Homeric Greek was as a first-year Ph.D. student. The only way I started doing literature was after I started teaching at Harvard, I started realizing if I really want to know Homeric poetry, I should know the meter, and then if I should know the meter, I should know the formulas.
FM: Where do you see the field of Classics going, given that there’s seemingly finite material to work with?
GN: I wish we had the cycle that we talked about earlier — all we have is plot outlines and prose. I should say that my biggest regret as an old man is that so little of Sappho — who I think is one of the greatest masters of verbal art — how most of Sappho’s songmaking has not survived. That is so depressing. It’s too painfully finite, but what we have is just, how shall I say it? It’s enchanting, is what it is. It’s enchanting.
FM: Who would you rather have as a student: Hector or Odysseus?
GN: If I were a sixth century Athenian, I would say Hector. Odysseus is also very important, but here’s something that will surprise you: John Finley, the former Eliot professor, used to say that Odysseus has bad press in all of the Greek literature except the Homeric “Odyssey.” Odysseus is this trickster figure that sometimes illustrates cultural norms by violating the norms. He’s not so much a model for leadership. For example, I mean, talk about survivor’s guilt when he comes home from Troy and he’s the only survivor. What kind of leader is that? So I guess I’m answering … my answer is … oh God, I guess I’ll say Hector. But I also want to say, to maybe get off the hook a little bit, Mr. Finley used to say there are two kinds of humans: “Iliad” people and “Odyssey” people.
FM: Which one are you?
GN: I love to read the “Odyssey,” but I think I have to be an “Iliad” person. Ooh, I don’t know! I can’t take it back now. Look, the “Iliad” and the “Odyssey” are like two sides of one coin. You can’t really get away from one and think of only the other — I think for a complete humanistic picture you’ve got to look at both of them and how they evolved together.
FM: If you could have any mythic creature as a pet, which would it be?
GN: I would say Argos, the hunting dog of Odysseus.
FM: Halloween was this Monday. Any memorable costumes you can think of?
GN: My wife was Mr. T once. Do you know who Mr. T is?
FM: Yes!
GN: Oh, well, if you know Mr. T, do you mind if I circle back to tricksters?
FM: Please do.
GN: In Winnebago traditions in Wisconsin and Minnesota, there is a special kind of trickster figure, who, after he finishes telling all the trickster stories in the role of the trickster sort of acting it out, at the end he goes through every social norm he has violated so that people understand what the real rules are. Isn’t that amazing? So in a way, that’s what happened with Mr. T: he had a Saturday kids’ program back when there was still TV in the way there isn’t now, and what he would do was there would be a cartoon of everything that happened, and then at the end he would do a moralizing summary of where things were kind of iffy. But, anyways, that’s what our “Odyssey” shows you: it makes the violations pretty clear.
FM: What would you say is your Achilles heel? Besides, perhaps, your physical Achilles heel. 
GN: I don’t want to get too political, but I get very upset when the polls don’t give me any hope, and I look for the outlier. But then I can get very disappointed, and I’m afraid of disappointment. But sometimes hope itself, if you mix it with pessimism, can make hope even more enjoyable if the pessimism is defeated by optimism.
FM: Last question: you’ve been at Harvard for over 50 years — looking at Harvard like a Ship of Theseus with all its parts changing, do you think it’s the same place as it was in 1966 or something else entirely?
GN: While Socrates is in prison, the Athenian ship of State is making its pilgrimage from Athens to Delos, the sacred island of Apollo, and back. It’s an Athenian taboo to execute prisoners of state while this ship is in progress. The word for sacred voyage is — get this — theoria, which is where we get “theory.” And so he can stay in prison and theorize as long as the ship doesn’t come back from the island, and the ship is supposedly Theseus’s original pilgrimage ship, the one where he saved Athens from the minotaur. But the idea is that by the time of 399 when Socrates is executed, there’s not a splinter of the original ship left. So here’s where the good part comes in: the journey of the ship no longer exists, but theory still exists even though Socrates was executed. So in a sense, the ideal is there, right? Instead of the sacred ship, you now have theory as contemplating the universe, theorizing, dialoguing intergenerationally. That’s pretty damn good!
— Associate Magazine Editor Sarah W. Faber can be reached at sarah.faber@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @swfaber.
Sections
It was an ungodly hour of the night — so late that not even a stray psetter would dare to stay awake for much longer — when I heard a knock on my door. For the last time, I thought, I’m not interested in punching The Fly. I opened the door anyway and found no one there except for a recording device laying on the ground. Great. Now, in addition to living in Cabot House, I have to deal with eavesdroppers.
It wasn’t recording when I picked it up. Thank goodness. I could continue in peaceful ignorance of whether or not I snore. I was awake now, and I figured that if someone was going to disturb my peace, I was going to disturb their privacy. So I peeled back the rubber flap on the side of the recorder and pulled out the SD card. “To my fellow Cabotian,” read a sticky note in cursive on the back of the device.
The voice on the recording was frantic and hushed. “I don’t know how long I have. I’ve been seeing strange things. It's making me doubt my mind. I’m recording this so that maybe I can get proof.”
This person was probably high, or had eaten too much HUDS pad thai, or both. Their voice cracks sounded like they’d been smoking stuff (cigarettes, of course) for a while — so vintage of them.
“She’s going to get me with the shovel,” the person croaked between hysterical sobs. I paused the recording. I don’t even think they have a shovel in Cabot. Hadn’t there been a poor girl asking for one on the email list earlier, trying to clean up a mess on the Quad Lawn? I was pretty sure no one responded, so the person in the recording was as good as safe.
I hit play again. “It all started with the Brain Break bandit,” the voice continued. “My roommate had sexiled me, so I was getting a drink in the dining hall, mostly zoned out until I heard a SLAM! like someone was struggling with something heavy. When I turned to look, a figure in white was standing rigidly in the servery door.
“Cabot House Faculty Dean Ian J. Miller sent out an email about a figure in white roaming the dhall earlier in the week, and my roommate asked me if I’d heard anything about it. I said no, but now I wish I had given the wild story more credence.
“The white figure was tall. Her long hair and theater-worthy Victorian white dress that read ‘Hollis Will Change Your Life’ were incredibly worn out. She radiated a piercing coldness that touched my bones. Beneath Cabot dhall’s beautiful phantom chandeliers — the harsh lighting of retirement chic — she cast not a shadow.”
Hearing this, I couldn’t help but think that this poor kid had seen something truly terrifying — scarier than midterm grades. I didn’t expect much from HUDS, but I’d never gotten a ghost with my chicken parm. I kept listening.
“The ghost and I stared awkwardly at each other in front of the soda machine, me clutching my cup of Powerade and the figure brandishing her shovel. I couldn’t see her face until she looked up and whispered, ‘Hi.’ Was she trying to be friendly? I forced a smile and muttered, ‘Have a good night’ before hurrying back to my suite. But the figure has been haunting me since. The next day, I got a note slipped through my door...”
I heard paper uncrumpling as the voice began to read out the note:
“In memoriam: Margaret Coleman Waites. Scholar, teacher, friend. Her death on March 15 has brought deep sorrow to a host of friends.” I recognized that name. “From the beginning of her college course she showed a mind of unusual penetration and firmness of grasp ...”
I heard metal scraping in the background, as the person in the recording erupted into frantic breaths. Suddenly, the tape cut out.
The shovel. I knew it. On Thursday at 1:47 a.m., I received an email from Margaret about her success in her “unusual penetration” from the ground. I connected the dots. The request for a shovel I saw earlier was from Margaret. She must have gotten her “firm grasp” on one. It must have been her coffin that was the “mess on the Quad Lawn” mentioned in her email.
How could she have dug herself up in plain sight of so many windows? Luckily, I was able to connect with Jerry A. Trik, a local elder who “frequents the Quad Lawn at night time” (“not suspiciously,” he gladly added), who verified that something was unusual that night. “It was very cold,” he said. “You young climate activists couldn’t explain this one.”
Hot on this cold trail, I recalled whispers around the house that Margaret was scheduled to make an appearance at Cabot Café that night. I showed up, anxiously clutching my Board Plus pumpkin spice latte amidst a crowd of people all waiting for her to make an appearance. My anticipation had almost boiled over when we heard from the staff of Cabot Café that a black rose had been spotted at the Café’s entrance. At 9 p.m., the music stopped, and all eyes were on the door — but Margaret didn’t show up. A barely audible “see you tomorrow” crackled from the hacked speaker, and the hubbub of the Café resumed.
Although Margaret ghosted us that evening, it was anything but a conclusion. Her memory has always lingered in Cabot’s halls. Now that she has successfully returned from the underworld, the rest of her will, too.

— Magazine writer Jem K. Williams can be reached at jem.williams@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @jemkwilliams.
Sections
Until my eighth birthday, I thought every single person in the world was Mormon.
Justin Bieber had just released “Baby” and Bieber fever was sweeping the nation. I remember being dazzled by “Never Say Never” — a documentary about Bieber’s rise to fame that was showered with love from my elementary school and slander from IMDb. But as I left the theater, a burning question stayed in my mind. “Never Say Never” was supposed to be an all-encompassing window into Justin Bieber’s life, right? But not even once had it mentioned him going to church. How could that be? I asked my mom. When she told me he wasn’t Mormon, I was floored.
In my home state of Utah, Mormonism is more than just a religion — it’s a lifestyle. Wards — local Mormon congregations — are centers of community and social life. Growing up, I met almost all my friends through my ward. Many of my parents’ close friends were ward members as well, and all of my parents’ friends were Mormon. My ward would celebrate birthdays together, host group barbeques, and take regular camping trips into the Utah wilderness. Church was just as social as it was religious.
While my initial revelation was fueled by Bieber, my eyes were fully opened to the world outside Mormonism two years later. When I was 10, I transferred out of my neighborhood school to attend a school for gifted students. While my old school was composed almost completely of children from my ward, my new school was much more diverse, and I was now one of only four Mormon kids in my class. We didn’t learn about the Church’s founding in history or say prayers before eating lunch.
As I glimpsed a world outside the Church, I began to question parts of life I had simply accepted. I had always opposed the Church’s stance on social issues but, until then, had never been presented with an alternative.
The Church has yet to fully grapple with its history of racist rhetoric. It continuously condemns gay marriage. Its enforced gender hierarchy and history of polygamy perpetuate misogyny. The rest of my family was able to compartmentalize, separating their faith from their unease with the Church’s complicated practices and legacy. I could not.
The more I learned, the more restless I became. I questioned Church doctrine constantly, often to the point of contention. I struggled for years to reconcile the Church’s views with my own. I never could. Eventually, I decided to leave Mormonism altogether.
Fully leaving the Church has taken me years, and has completely transformed my relationship with my community. My family doesn’t understand my decision. Though they have become more supportive over time, they still look for every possible opportunity to convince me to rejoin. During the pandemic, I moved in with my grandparents in order to attend school in person. Each week, my grandfather would invite me to church with him. When I chose not to go, he’d spend hours writing speeches about doctrine to deliver to me himself.
Throughout high school, all I wanted was to get away from Utah, away from Mormonism. But being on the East Coast has yielded mixed results.
Living in a place with so many different types of people and belief systems has been incredibly refreshing. Yet even 2,000 miles away from home, it’s difficult to avoid being associated with Mormonism.
Because I’m from Utah, most people assume I’m part of the Church. I’ve been asked all sorts of questions: Am I barred from attending public school, like Tara Westover writes about in “Educated”? Does everyone in my family really get married by 20? When I met one of my best friends at Visitas, the first thing she told me was that she’d just watched a Netflix documentary on religious cults and was dying to know if I was neighbors with polygamists.
I still don’t know what to think when the Church comes up. Sometimes, I feel it shouldn’t matter at all if others think I’m Mormon. After all, I’ve left the Church. The assumptions people make about me seem completely benign, and even when they do rub me the wrong way, I know my discomfort means little in comparison to the experiences of those who face more harmful forms of stereotyping. Still, being associated with Mormonism can be frustrating. I’ve worked for years to distance myself from the Church. It’s upsetting to think that no matter what I do, that perception of me may never fully go away — that Mormonism will keep pulling me back.
A few weeks ago, I flew out to Utah to attend my sisters’ baptism. I stared out the window on the plane ride there and wondered why I was going at all. I pictured myself at the baptism. A speaker would say something about the wonders of joining the Church. My family would give me a pointed stare, and I’d pretend not to notice. Afterward, they’d encircle me and ask all their tired, well-meaning questions. Did I know Harvard had a fantastic student ward? They’d heard the Church was way different on the East Coast — much less conservative. I felt out of place in Utah, sure, but I wouldn't feel that way there. They’d mailed me a Book of Mormon a few weeks ago. Had I had the chance to read it?
I have no idea why I chose to go back to Utah. When my parents called me a few weeks earlier and asked if I wanted a ticket, I said yes on autopilot. Later, I felt dishonest. I was embarrassed to be flying home for a religion I was supposed to have completely disavowed. I told my friends I was going home for a family reunion.
At the baptism, my grandfather gave a speech about how proud he was that my family had chosen to become official members of the Church, and sure enough, he started to look over at me. His eyes met mine. He broke down crying.
After the baptism, my grandfather came up to me. He told me he hadn’t been sure whether I would fly out at all. Now that I’d left the Church and was living thousands of miles away, would I even have time for my family? He told me that no matter whether I was a member of the Church, deep down, all he cared about was that I was there and that I knew my family cared about me.
It had been so easy to write this baptism off. To dread the pointed remarks my family would make and forget about everything else. But I knew they were only asking because they cared about me. I looked at all the people surrounding me — I couldn’t remember the last time I’d seen this much of my family in one place. Later that day, they swarmed me just like I expected. Some of them asked targeted questions. Some didn’t comment on things at all. But every single one of them, without fail, told me how happy they were to see me there.
I wish I could hate Mormonism without reservation. But I don’t think I’ll ever be able to. Although Mormonism is responsible for policies and doctrine I despise, it’s also the genesis of communities I care about. Its focus on the importance of family and emphasis on serving others are values I will always cherish. It deeply matters to so many of the people I love. Looking ahead, I’m trying to remember that the Church is more than its worst parts.
Identity is not something I can chop up and compartmentalize as I see fit. Although I am no longer a part of the Church, having grown up Mormon will always shape who I am, and as difficult as it is, I’m coming to terms with that.
Sections
While most freshmen receive assigned suitemates upon coming to Harvard, Eric T. Thompson ’24 already knew who he’d be living with: his wife.
For Thompson as well as James K. McGlinchey ’25 and Dylan A. Pancoast ’23, Harvard was not the first stop after high school. All three served in the military for six to eight years before coming to Harvard, during which time they got married. All three currently live off campus, away from the hustle and bustle of house life.
In fact, the Harvard College Handbook states that the university “does not offer undergraduate housing in the Houses or dorms to married undergraduates and/or undergraduates with families.” Since 98% of all Harvard undergraduates live in the Houses, living off campus makes these married students clear outliers.
Some couples, like McGlinchey and his wife, are able to tap into Harvard housing generally intended for graduate students, but some married students find these options difficult to navigate. “Finding out about [graduate school housing] took a lot more effort than I thought,” says Pancoast, who wishes Harvard provided more information about housing options for married undergraduates.
The veteran couples live in three different locations: McGlinchey lives in graduate housing, Pancoast lives in Boston proper, and Thompson lives in a non-Harvard affiliated apartment in Cambridge.
Ariann S. Jones ’23 and Noah Jones ’22, who married in the middle of their undergraduate years, experienced difficulty finding on-campus housing as a newly married couple, as there was no official process that the administration knew to follow. Noah ended up transferring from Mather to Kirkland, where Ariann lives, because Kirkland’s administrators were more “adaptable” to their situation, according to Ariann. Ultimately, while the couple wanted a double so they had a bit more room, they ended up with a single that was normally reserved for special situations.
Pancoast notes a social difference between himself and his peers at the College: “I’m not here for the late night hangouts people have,” he says, adding that he finds most of his friends through classes and problem set groups.
Ariann and Cameron M. Stone ’23, who also married in the middle of his time at Harvard, describe a more positive dimension of the social experience for married undergraduates. Both students are closer in age to their peers, having taken only two years off from college, and also lived on campus for their first three years at Harvard.
Cameron says that the experience of getting married and moving off-campus with his spouse pushed him to be “more deliberate” about seeing his friends, explaining how the distance between them has made the time they spend together more intentional. Ariann, who also lives off-campus now, feels similarly, saying that with fewer chances to run into friends spontaneously, she “has to make more of an effort to stay in touch.”
Both met their spouses through their faith community. As members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the couples describe how their faith has kept them grounded throughout their lives and their marriages. Jonessays the desire she and her husband share to “be better” partners for each other is a part of their journey toward “becoming more like Jesus Christ.”
Ariann and Stone say they felt very supported in their decision to get married. “[My friends] totally trusted and supported me,” Stone says. Ariann describes her interactions with faculty as “really welcoming,” explaining how many referred to her and her husband as “the Joneses, our favorite married couple.” She says her peers have been largely supportive as well, although “there were some social circles where it shocked people.”
Veterans McGlinchey, Pancoast, and Thompson have sought out other forms of community outside the Harvard undergraduate bubble. McGlinchey, who has two sons aged two years and nine months, finds community in the graduate school neighborhood he lives in. He speaks fondly of his block, describing it as a “super quaint little one-way lane.” He details each of his neighbors and their families, from the babysitting co-op he and his wife are a part of to the “endlessly excitable” toddler who lives across the street.
McGlinchey is involved with various on campus organizations. Thompson, to the contrary, opts to be less involved in order to spend that time with his wife instead.
While married couples make up a tiny fraction of Harvard students, McGlinchey does not consider himself an outlier due to the inherently wide range of identities and experiences among undergraduates. “Me being married and having kids is relatively unique, but I think everybody in their own way is just as or even more unique,” he says.
For Stone, his uncommon status as a married undergraduate is something to be proud of. “Figure out what is important to you in life and own it unapologetically,” he says. “Others will respect you for it.”
— Magazine writer Eden A. Getahun can be reached at eden.getahun@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @edengetahun03.
Sections
Among bulletin boards cluttered with postings of the Winthrop Trampoline and the next acapella show, a recent flier has stood out; it depicts only a smiley face and a mailbox under the heading: “Need a Friend? Email FriendHarvard@gmail.com.,”
We met the student behind the project, Jay M. Judge ’22-23, a second-semester senior at the College. Donning a sage green shirt and heavy-framed black glasses, he discussed his experience at Harvard and the inception of his project, sitting soaked in the sun by the large windows of the Smith Campus Center. He spoke quietly and methodically, thinking through each word. His clear mannerisms — he sat straight and looked us in the eye — mirrored the intentionality of his speech.
Judge’s posters have caught many people’s attention. He has received dozens of emails, and he answers each as promptly as he can, usually with a “how are you doing?” Some emails grow into a thread of online conversation, and others develop into in-person meetups.
Judge was surprised to find that most who have emailed him are graduate students. In one of Judge’s meetups, he was told of the often disconnected environments of the graduate schools. “There’s not really much friendship, or community there,” Judge says.
Though Judge hasn’t heard from as many Harvard undergraduates, he knows there are other students who feel isolated from their peers. He says that people have told him, “there’s other people like you; there’s a lot of lonely people on college campuses.” He adds, “I got the idea that if there are other people like me, I could create a way to find them and talk to them.”
In a 2017 survey of 48,000 American college students, 64 percent reported having felt “very lonely” at some point in the past year. The study attributes these findings to the pernicious mindset of comparison; students who have trouble forming connections may look around and feel they are alone in this difficulty.
Judge, too, felt alone in his struggle to adapt to Harvard’s social scene: “In the first couple of weeks, I already felt like I was way behind the average person in regards to making friends,” he says. This contrasted his expectations that meeting new people in college would allow him to expand his horizons; in high school, he spent most of his time focused on academics and throwing hammer for track and field. However, he quickly found that making friends was much more difficult than he anticipated.
“I dealt with loneliness a lot when I was a freshman, sophomore, and junior,” Judge says. He adds, “I isolated myself so much. I just stayed in my room. I was too shy to go out and talk to people.”
Once, in his first year, Judge sought help. He called Room 13, one of Harvard’s peer counseling services. As he recalls, “I vented into the phone, and somebody who was reassuring responded. And I guess that’s helpful. But to me, that kind of feels like talking to a therapist where you can work out your problems, but it’s not so much forming a friendship.”
After freshman year, Judge took three semesters off to focus on his mental health, attributing much of his growth to interacting with others during this time. “What helps me the most is just talking to people,” he says. Now, Judge says he feels much more comfortable in social settings — indeed, he carries himself with confidence during our interview.
Judge says that he would not have been able to start his project without having gone through this period of growth. “I've been more willing to take risks lately, I suppose,” he says.
We ask him to share a piece of advice for his younger self. “Don’t take CS50,” he initially replies, laughing. But, as we near the end of our interview, Judge returns to our question to share a more satisfactory answer. “Being confident is much easier said than done,” he says. “Try to talk to people and ignore your own negative thoughts.”
Sections
For Marisol A. Evans-Garcia, it all began with “two functional mini fridges.” This was the bargain that brought her to Harvard University’s Recycling and Surplus Center for the first time. The Center offers used items that the University would otherwise throw away to the public for free. Its busyness ebbs and flows with the season and time of day, often peaking around move-out.
Now a regular customer, Evans-Garcia is back at the Center, a small warehouse across the road from the Science and Engineering Complex in Allston. Standing in the shadow of a gargantuan mountain of dorm desk chairs, she admits that she is uncertain what her next great find will be but excited by the possibility that she could find “anything you can imagine.” On this Thursday morning, for instance, though there is not a mini fridge in sight, shoppers can hardly miss the monstrous scientific fridge from the Northwest Labs.
Kieran Clyne, the University’s Associate Manager of Recycling Services says that the Center is very casual. “Whatever people want, they can take,” he says. Founded approximately 15 years ago, the Center entered the fray as part of the University’s vast array of programs to reinvent its approach to waste management.
The Center accepts any item that can be reused or repurposed from any Harvard affiliate, with many of the items being left behind from move-out day or from the University’s renovation projects. The Center is open to Harvard affiliates and non-profits on Mondays from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. and open to the general public on Thursdays at the same time.
The Center is as varied as the University itself, with each section telling its own story. In each corner of the facility lie dozens of former Crimson Print printers. In another section, the Center’s staff has piled thousands of plastic hangers. Elsewhere a complex topography has formed out of rolling hills of forgotten shoes. These dejected shoes each serve as an artifact to a bygone college experience : goth boots, professional dress flats, seemingly unused soccer cleats, and stiletto heels. While some items are recognizable tenets of campus life, other oddities are harder to understand, like a pallet of nearly a thousand cans of expired Campbell’s tomato soup.
For some shoppers, like Evans-Garcia, the Center’s eclectic selection is part of the appeal: she savors the feeling of “finding something like a diamond in the rough.”
Yet for others, shopping at the Center is a pragmatic choice. The Center serves many under-privileged individuals and communities throughout the area. In particular, there are many “Haitian immigrants who are sending stuff back to Haiti,” Clyne says.
The Center contributes to multiple sustainability goals that the University set in 2015, including reducing on-campus waste by 50 percent from a 2006 baseline and safely disposing of electronic waste. From 2006 to 2020, recycling rates on campus increased from 44 percent to a record-high 90 percent, while the number of items in trash streams decreased.
In recent years, the Center has been perpetually full, so space constraints remain a constant challenge “You can always use more space,” Clyne says. Nevertheless, the Center continues to pick up items regularly.
Clyne emphasizes that the University remains committed to making the “extra effort,” and the staff regularly send teams of movers and trucks to recover unwanted items from around the campus, even if a pickup might yield only one or two items.
For Clyne, whose office sits at the edge of the Center, the recycled items are “all pretty similar” and forgettable to him after years of working in the waste management industry. The people who come to claim these items, though, are not. Clyne, who leaves his door ajar for curious shoppers, regularly gets to see familiar faces.
Whether an item goes to furnish an Allston apartment or finds a home in Haiti, Harvard’s Recycling and Surplus Center gives each one a chance at rebirth.
Sections
Remy the Cat is one of Harvard’s biggest purr-sonalities. This eight-year-old orange tabby roams in search of sunny windowsills, plush armchairs, and fawning admirers all over campus, particularly near the (rather inaptly named) Barker Center. We asked his owner, Sarah Watton, to reflect on Remy’s hero origin story and his adventures over the years. Remy himself did not respond to a request for comment, so you’ll have to settle for these paparazzi photos instead.
As a kitten, Remy was found behind a dumpster in Medfield with his mom and five littermates. Sarah Watton thought a pet could help her two young sons overcome their fear of animals, and she had a particular fondness for orange tabbies. She adopted Remy and his brother Gus from the shelter in September 2014. Today, Remy and Gus live with their (human) family on Sacramento St., less than a mile from campus.
When Watton first brought the kittens home, she tried to confine them to one bedroom while they acclimated to their new surroundings. Remy, however, managed to escape from the baby gate. He soon began dashing out from doors left ajar, leaving his owners to chase him down snow-piled streets in the middle of winter. His family even tried to walk him on a leash around the yard, but after six months, they gave up and acknowledged that Remy was meant to be an outdoor cat. “He just had that wandering free spirit which was extremely apparent from the beginning,” Watton says. “From the get-go, he was a cat you couldn’t contain.”
When Remy began venturing into Harvard Yard, Watton and her family were inundated with calls from passersby worried that he was lost. “We could get 50 calls in a day — morning, noon, night, 2 a.m.,” Watton says. The calls have subsided now that Remy has become a recognizable figure on campus, and Watton has recorded a voicemail message for people calling about him. But “even now, we can’t clear all the messages on our home phone,” she says.
Remy frequently leaves home for days or weeks at a time. “When he is home, he basically comes in, eats a giant bowl of food, goes into one of [my sons’] beds or a couch, sleeps for like 18 hours, and then might hang around for a bit,” Watton says. “But after about three days is his maximum before he’s sitting at the door, waiting to go.” Watton’s sons are delighted to own a famous Harvard cat, but they get to spend more time with his “more conventional” brother Gus, who returns home with greater frequency. (Although, Watton adds, Gus often roams around the Divinity School and has “a small but growing fanbase” of his own.)
Watton describes “a couple of epic cat-napping incidents” that Remy has endured. One time, a man picked Remy up from Oxford St. and drove him away to Roxbury, intending to give him to his girlfriend before they realized they couldn’t keep him inside. When Watton’s husband went to pick Remy back up, he found the cat equipment already set up in their apartment.
In the summer of 2018, Watton grew concerned when she hadn’t seen or heard from Remy in over a month. She posted fliers all over campus and even consulted a “cat whisperer” who tried to track him down. Eventually, she found that a business located about a 10-minute walk from their home had taken Remy in as their office pet. In order to prove she was his real owner, she needed to drive one of the employees to the vet’s office and get Remy’s microchip scanned. “He didn’t actually want to give Remy back,” Watton says. “It’s just an indication of how Remy is able to ingratiate himself.”
Remy, too, spent more time at home during the pandemic. When the University drastically scaled down its on-campus operations, Watton says, “he was wandering around Harvard and couldn’t get into any buildings. He really suffered his own mental anxieties, because in an instant his community disappeared, and it took him a while to find his ground.”
The “Remy the Humanities Cat” Facebook page is managed by Jessica Shires, the History and Literature department administrator. Watton does not know who runs Remy’s Instagram account, though she often checks it to keep track of his whereabouts. She is surprised to hear he has a Twitter and LinkedIn as well. She is even more surprised to hear about the rumors of Remy’s death that swirled around Sidechat last semester: “That’s crazy!” “If he was ever taken ill, I would definitely get the message out to his community,” she reassures.
“I’ve seen inside of many Harvard buildings and met many, many people over the years through his wanderings,” Watton says. She’s talked to students, faculty, administrators, and staff who’ve all encountered and adored Remy. He’s visited dorm rooms, sneaked into basements, and attended multiple thesis defenses. People have returned him back to Watton in their backpacks and the basket of their bicycles. He was once featured in a wedding photo taken on campus — “he’s sitting in focus in front, and the bride and the groom are in the distance, sort of blurred out.”
Watton says she’s amazed by the number of people who meet Remy and instantly connect with him. “He’s our cat, but he’s every bit a cat that belongs to the Harvard community as well,” she says. “And I think we’re down with that. It just took us a while to come around. But there was no way — you know, this was really Remy’s will, not ours.”
— Magazine Chair Sophia S. Liang can be reached at sophia.liang@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @totalPHIAsco.
Sections
On a Thursday night in 1990, a group of women crammed into Adams House’s Coolidge Room. Above the din, they argued over the project materializing before them. In the coming months, their “emotional, historic, turbulent” discussions, the women would later write, would coalesce into “an atomic bomb of self-expression.”
A few months later, the bomb, in the form of a thin magazine, fell on Harvard. It was called “The Rag.” Around campus, students could flip through the first issue to find an essay considering feminist perspectives on lesbian pornography, a poem about performing fellatio on Uncle Sam, or an argument for a more equitable housing policy. Some readers were outraged, and others were inspired.
For the next two years, The Rag continued to publish essays, photography, fiction, and poetry. At weekly meetings, the collective of women pushed their artistic and intellectual boundaries. Members, who referred to themselves as “on The Rag,” formed a tight-knit community.
By 1994, however, those women had all graduated, and the magazine disappeared. Preserved only in a few articles from The Crimson and three issues in the Schlesinger Library, The Rag otherwise slipped through Harvard’s porous memory.
Yet during the three years of its existence, The Rag played a powerful role in campus culture. The collective created a space for women to play with radical ideas and reckon with pressing issues, while the magazine added a distinct voice to the college’s fraught discourse. Despite its short life, The Rag expanded what feminism could be at Harvard.
***
The early ’90s was a “period of fierce political debate” on Harvard’s campus, as one article in The Crimson puts it. As students battled over problems large and small, new publications sprang up one after another.
“It was very easy to get funding for a new publication,” remembers Rebecca Hellerstein ’92, a founding member of The Rag. “You had this real sense of possibility.”
In early 1990, Sean P. McLaughlin ’91 left his position as a writer at the Salient because he believed it failed to properly represent conservative voices at Harvard; he then founded a far-right periodical he called “Peninsula.” The new journal’s controversial stances — anti-gay rights, anti-abortion, and anti-birth control — sparked campus-wide debates and outrage among liberal students.
Later that year, when Peninsula published a 56-page attack on homosexuality, the Bisexual, Gay, and Lesbian Students Association responded by organizing protests and rallies and creating their own publication: HQ. Other students founded the Lighthouse, a women’s magazine, and revived the leftist journal Subterranean Review. Less seriously, a group of Adams House students distributed a satirical journal called the Little Friend which aimed to print ideas so ridiculous that everyone would disagree with them.
Within this tumultuous storm, The Rag was a bolt of lightning.
Although the Lighthouse was a journal meant for women, it was not explicitly feminist. Some of its members wanted to pursue a more radical vision.
“There was a really strongly felt need for a feminist magazine,” remembers Heather Love ’91, a contributor to The Rag.
“There wasn’t a venue for the expression of the kinds of ideas many of us were having,” says Tiya A. Miles ’92, a current professor in the History Department and another contributor. Instead, a different kind of venue dominated Harvard’s landscape. “The combination of elitism and sexism that made up the final clubs … took up prime real estate on campus,” Love says.
In October 1990, Sheila C. Allen ’93 and five others split off from the Lighthouse to form The Rag.
***
The Rag didn’t just espouse radical ideas — it actively embodied them. In an effort to reject tradition and hierarchy in all forms, The Rag eschewed a typical top-down leadership structure and instead was organized as a collective. All decisions were to be made by consensus. “We have no editors or editing process,” a statement in the first issue reads. Rather, as Hellerstein put it at the time, the magazine would “evolve” out of a series of open workshops.
At the first meetings, “there wasn’t really someone in control,” Love remembers. “What the magazine should be... was very much up for debate.”
“We were really wrestling with new ideas… and our diverse socioeconomic standing in relation to these issues,” Miles says. The meetings “were not without tension.”
For some of those ideas, “academic context helped to plant the seeds,” as Miles puts it. The work of prominent Black feminist bell hooks, whom she first encountered in a literature course, became “a pivotal thinker for me and many in The Rag.”
But The Rag was no dull academic pursuit: “It was a huge amount of fun,” Hellerstein says. Instead of strictly adhering to any particular set of ideas, the collective felt “much more fluid, much more creative.”
“We were just brimming with ideas, emotions, energy,” Miles says. “It was the most exhilarating thing.”
The Rag also facilitated “the beginning of something like queer activism,” Love says. Indeed, Allen had previously co-chaired the BGLSA, and once described herself as “the paradigm of the Harvard lesbian.” Meetings could spark more than just feminist solidarity: as they workshopped a poem that described the curve of a lover’s neck, members might catch eyes or brush arms.
***
For all its theorizing, the goals of The Rag remained deeply rooted in the needs of women at Harvard. The discrimination and violence the members discussed shaped their lives at college. “I always felt that Harvard wanted me to be a boy,” Hellerstein says. “It was easier to be in classes... if I erased any gender. Any femaleness.”
That fall, students protested after administrators made comments regarding date rape that many perceived as victim blaming, especially at a time when the prevalence of sexual violence on campus could not be understated. “I had at least twenty friends with whom I talked about sexual trauma,” Rag contributor Rebecca Goldin ’93 says. “And I had exactly one friend who had not been technically raped.”
Meetings of the collective became a space where women could be honest about emotional and sexual trauma. Many members shared stories from their own lives. Sometimes “it was like a group therapy session, but there was no therapist,” Goldin recalls. “I just remember the weight of how hard it was to even have a conversation about it and how intense it was.” At each meeting, one person took on the role of “vibes watcher,” monitoring the tension of the group and intervening if necessary.
These discussions became essential to the women who participated. “What it did was validate the commonness of [sexual trauma]... People felt like ‘I can remove the sense of shame, or sadness, or confusion, and I can lay that at the feet of something that’s not my fault,’” Goldin says. “That was very powerful, not something people were taught anywhere else.”
“I remember developing a sense of feminist identity through those conversations, and of a Black feminist identity,” Miles says. During meetings, she wrote in a 1995 essay about The Rag, “I was first able to voice and begin to transform … my long-held belief that as a black woman, my hair and features were ugly.”
Through The Rag, the women felt “liberated” from the constraints they felt Harvard placed on them. “In the absence of a Women’s Center,” they wrote in the first issue, “we have created a space for ourselves in which we are comfortable speaking out.”
***
Eventually, the conversations became consensus, and in February 1991, The Rag published its first issue.
The women distributed the magazine to dorms across campus with a sense of triumph. “That was just the most tremendous moment,” Miles remembers. “The feeling was [that] we are going to tell all these people exactly what it is we’ve been thinking… No matter how much any of us was exposing herself, she would not be doing it alone. That was such a powerful feeling.”
Styled “a feminist journal of politics and culture,” the pages of the first issue included photography, poetry, fiction, and essays. The writing covered final clubs, eating disorders, racism in beauty standards, lesbian sexual politics, and more.
Of course, The Rag was more than just polemics. One article was simply a recipe for banana bread, except for the final line: “will there still be banana bread after the revolution?”
Indeed, The Rag did have a revolutionary impact at Harvard. In an event organized by the collective the weekend after the issue’s publication, over 50 students met to discuss the magazine, expressing “anger, relief, confusion, and frustration.”.
The Rag’s explicit accounts of sexual harassment and violence were met with especially strong responses — and, for many, a sense of recognition. Members of the collective had worried about the backlash when they chose to publish a personal story of date rape. Instead, the article inspired a flood of proposals from victims of abuse for similar pieces in the next issue.
***
The Rag remained a polarizing force on Harvard’s campus for the next two years. Contemporary editorials praised its contribution to a flourishing campus discourse, while more lighthearted articles poked fun at it. One particularly salacious photo published in a 1993 issue inspired a host of satirical responses.
But within the collective, divisions grew. According to Miles’s essay, a “small group” of women handled the business and logistics of the magazine, and some resented that concentration of power given the group’s commitment to collective control. Disagreements related to the magazine’s socio-economic representation further strained the organization. One woman felt she was worth less to the group because, unlike some of the women, her parents could not donate to fund the publication.
To Miles, these tensions spelled the end of the collective. “We never recovered,” she wrote. The year after her graduation, she says, “the group dissolved.”
Other Rag alumni emphasize different reasons for the group’s demise.
Hellerstein points to a problem with funding. At that time, it was much easier to start an organization at Harvard than to sustain one. “You had a ton of funding for the first year and the second year, and then it died down,” Hellerstein recalls.
More importantly, The Rag wasn’t actively recruiting new writers. At the end of the 1993 school year, all remaining members of the collective, including Allen and Rebecca Goldin, graduated. The next semester, an op-ed lamented how students had let “the infamous Rag lapse into oblivion.”
However, the founders didn’t grieve the magazine’s end. “We didn’t have a next generation of women [in the collective],” Hellerstein says. “It felt like it was a natural end.”
***
Although many outsiders saw the group as “extreme” for what it published, the women of The Rag mostly remember it for the community. To Goldin, the collective was “a bunch of young women feeling like they could finally talk about what had happened to them.”
“It was a kind of home for a lot of folks,” Hellerstein says.
“When I think back over my life and consider which experiences have been the most important to me, The Rag is the first thing that comes to mind,” Miles says.
Even today, such an organization could be seen as radical. Its anti-hierarchical structure required difficult discussions and consensus for every decision. In its pages, The Rag unabashedly interrogated taboos, explored pressing issues, and defended unpopular views. As Harvard students continue to confront many of the same problems they did 30 years ago, The Rag illustrates the possibilities for feminism on campus.
“There’s always a pressing need for a feminist movement,” says Love. “The Rag would be completely salient for me if it started right now.”
At the first meeting, when someone suggested The Rag as a title, Miles was initially aghast: “That’s direct, and bold, and maybe a little bit rude,” she recalls thinking.
But her opinion shifted after the discussion. “That’s what people thought we should go with, and I grabbed onto the coattails of their bravery in that moment,” she says. “That speaks to my experience on The Rag: being able to gather courage from the voices and words of other women.”
— Magazine writer Hewson Duffy can be reached at hewson.duffy@thecrimson.com.
Sections
The infamous saga of Elizabeth A. Holmes has been well-documented in popular media. Between an HBO documentary, a Wall Street Journal exposé, a plethora of podcasts, and a star-studded Hulu series, all chronicling the rise and fall of her fraudulent biotech company Theranos, it seems just about everyone has an opinion of Holmes.
Theranos Inc. was a healthcare startup — valued at $10 billion at its zenith in 2013 and 2014 — once considered to be on the cusp of revolutionizing the blood-testing industry. Founded by Holmes, a Stanford dropout, in 2003, Theranos quickly garnered funding from an illustrious set of big-name investors, with Holmes touting her company’s technology as a way to run hundreds of medical tests with a single drop of blood. However, in 2015, the technology at the core of Theranos was ultimately exposed as a massive deception. Holmes was convicted of fraud in January of this year.
But before Theranos came crashing down, Holmes raised over $700 million from high-profile investors, drawing numerous distinguished personalities to her company’s corporate board. While conning a slew of A-list investors, Holmes was also courting a different kind of prestige: a seat on Harvard Medical School’s Board of Fellows.
The Harvard Medical School Board of Fellows is a non-fiduciary board created in 1990. Board members serve as external advisors to the leadership of the school and provide counsel on topics related to the strength, health, and well-being of the institution.
Before the fall of Theranos, many on the Board were excited at the possibility of having Holmes — a rising star in the biotech industry — join their ranks. What they didn’t anticipate was that her time at HMS would be so short-lived and riddled with controversy.
In 2015, then-Dean of Harvard Medical School Jeffrey S. Flier received a call from a senior professor at Harvard Business School who hoped Holmes would deliver a keynote address at their upcoming healthcare symposium.
The professor wanted Flier to connect him with William H. Frist, a member of the HMS Board of Fellows who also happened to sit on the board of Theranos. “A keynote address to that group would have been quite an important role,” Flier says.
Soon, Flier would have other hopes for Holmes — courting her to join the HMS Board herself.
The Board is “designed to be a highly accomplished group of people with whom we have regular contact and are informed about what the school is doing, what the future activities are, what the challenges are,” Flier says.
Frist told Flier that Holmes had to pass on the opportunity due to a scheduling conflict, but that she would be happy to meet with Flier if she was ever in Boston or he found himself in Palo Alto, California, the site of Theranos headquarters.
Later that year, Holmes found herself on Harvard’s campus to receive an award, and her office reached out to set up a meeting with Flier. The pair had lunch in a private room at the Faculty Club, “with one of her guards posted outside,” according to Flier.
During their meal, Flier says Holmes touted several other high-profile board invitations she had rejected, but she expressed interest in becoming involved with HMS. She delivered her Theranos pitch to Flier, during which he says Holmes claimed that “everyone is in mortal fear of a blood test.” Flier challenged her, arguing that too much self-ordered blood testing could lead to “false positives” that could elicit further testing with “harmful and disruptive” results.
“She looked at me like no one had ever said that before,” he says.
Flier thought Holmes’s reaction to his query was “slightly odd,” but he ultimately pushed aside his doubts because the role was strictly advisory and did not require any medical expertise or involve fiduciary responsibility, he says.
“Look, we’re not asking her to run the world of testing. We’re asking her to be on our board while this all plays out. And she might be interesting and valuable, and she might learn something new,” Flier explains.
The Board of Fellows Nominating Committee meets annually to review and approve a slate of candidates for the board, and in Holmes’s case, Flier decided to extend an invitation after informally consulting with a few other board members.
“We were interested in some younger people, we were interested in women, we were interested in people with entrepreneurial activity, and she fit the bill,” Flier says.
But one board member who wasn’t included in these discussions knew something about Holmes that the others didn’t.
Phyllis I. Gardner first crossed paths with Holmes in 2003 when the now-disgraced founder was an undergraduate at Stanford, looking to share her idea for Theranos with an expert in the medical field. During this time, Gardner says she became “the early skeptic” of Holmes after observing her “extraordinary egoism” and “air of invincibility” first-hand.
“She came to me with this weird idea, a very weird idea,” says Gardner, recalling Holmes’s initial pitch, a precursor to the vision of Theranos. “And I kept telling her that’s not going to work. It wasn’t the idea she ultimately commercialized, but she had no knowledge.”
Despite her past with Holmes, Gardner was never consulted prior to Flier extending the Board invitation to her. When Gardner learned that Holmes was to join the HMS board, she says she privately lobbied the Development Office to expel her, pointing to the fact that Holmes was under investigation at the time. She says that in response, she was told that Holmes would be treated as “innocent until proven guilty.”
“She was put on the Harvard Medical School Board by a nominating committee of three powerful people who hadn’t done their due diligence,” Gardner says. “It was hard for me. I begged them not to put her on and it was too late.”
In retrospect, Flier says he should have consulted Gardner, but says he didn’t realize that she and Holmes had a prior relationship until it was too late.
“The reality is that I wish I had asked, but I didn’t even think of the connection,” Flier says. “It just didn't occur to any of us.”
A few weeks later, Gardner’s suspicions about Holmes were publicly vindicated.
The morning of Holmes’s first meeting as a member of the board, the Wall Street Journal published its first front-page exposé by journalist John Carreyrou, who would go on to write “Bad Blood: Secrets and Lies in a Silicon Valley Startup,” a book about Theranos’ fall from grace. Gardner was quoted as a source in Carreyrou’s article.
The story interrogated the validity of Holmes’s technology, publicly planting the first major seeds of doubt in Theranos and casting Holmes’s burgeoning empire as a potentially fraudulent operation.
When Flier introduced Holmes to the board, he hadn’t yet read the article and recalls he “didn’t know what to think, but we welcomed her.”
“You can imagine these are all very smart, well-connected people. The word was being whispered around the room for those who hadn’t read the Wall Street Journal already that this had happened,” Flier says.
In a 2019 op-ed for the British Medical Journal, Flier wrote that despite the tension, “Elizabeth remained unimaginably calm and unflustered” during the two-day meeting, though “everyone talked privately about this cosmic anomaly.”
At the first Board of Fellows meeting after Holmes joined, Gardner says she sat with her “arms folded and scowling,” face-to-face and across the table from Holmes.
When she was introduced, Gardner remembers that everyone applauded her, except Harvard University Provost Alan M. Garber ’76 and President Drew G. Faust, who sat “stone-faced,” just like Gardner.
“They were embarrassed. You know, it’s an embarrassing situation for everybody,” says Gardner.
Nonetheless, Holmes “didn’t seem embarrassed,” she says. Instead, Holmes spoke in her trademark “low voice,” which Gardner believes was “cultivated,” as it differed significantly from the tone of voice she remembered her having at Stanford.
“It was a very fraught moment. And of course, I was supporting Harvard, but I was not supporting Elizabeth Holmes or Theranos because I had knowledge that a lot of people didn’t about what was happening,” Gardner says.
Several hours into the meeting, Holmes left and didn’t come back, according to Flier. She was expected to return for a large dinner reception that night, where the seating arrangements would place her at the head of the table next to Flier. But as rumors swirled about Theranos, Holmes’s chair remained conspicuously empty.
Only after the appetizers and main course were served did Holmes arrive and take her seat next to Flier. He says they exchanged pleasantries and she apologized for missing the rest of the meeting, citing several television appearances she had to attend that day.
“It sounds like this is a major complication for you,” Flier recalls saying to her. “And she said something like, ‘Oh it’s really nothing, it's all gonna blow over. It’s a very uninformed article.’”
Throughout the dinner, Flier says Holmes “defended herself” and “behaved as normally as you can imagine a person behaving.”
When Gardner saw Holmes at the head of the table, she says she thought it was “par for the course” to see her “leaning in, sucking up to a powerful older white man.” Her behavior reminded Gardner of how Holmes had defrauded dozens of Theranos investors who, blinded by the allure of her empire, “fell for her” and failed to do due diligence.
In the aftermath of the exposé and months of investigations that followed, the Board grappled with an internal debate about whether to keep Holmes “on the board for a while out of fairness and due process” or request her resignation in order to “limit potential institutional reputational damage,” Flier wrote in a blog post.
Gardner says that despite mounting evidence, most board members were “not convinced at all” that Holmes was a fraud and should resign. “They didn’t do due diligence,” she says.
Some women on the board even asked Gardner if she was “embarrassed” about being quoted in the Wall Street Journal exposé and expressed concern that it would be “embarrassing” for them not to support Holmes on the Board as a female entrepreneur, Gardner recalls. “How could you not support a woman?” she says they asked her.
“I’m totally women-oriented, but not for her, not for a fraud! And by the way, I was proven right,” Gardner says. “She was a fraud. She is a fraud.”
At first, the majority of the board opposed requesting Holmes’s resignation, Gardner says. But as more information became public, Flier wrote in a blog post that “the balance decisively swung,” and he asked a trusted friend to quietly ask Holmes to resign from the Board of Fellows.
“In retrospect we made a mistake in asking her to join despite her winning awards and gaining broad attention, we corrected the mistake in a reasonable time period allowing facts to emerge, and there was no harm to the school apart from understandable (and brief) embarrassment that this happened,” Flier wrote in an email.
Just three years ago, Flier, now retired, wrote in a blog post that his involvement in “Theranos-gate” taught him that more due diligence is needed, even for non-fiduciary boards like the HMS Board of Fellows.
In the same post, Flier also acknowledged the challenge of balancing due diligence with expediency when recruiting desirable candidates. “On the other hand, convincing great people to join such boards is critical to the health of many not-for-profit institutions, and sometimes you must strike while the iron is hot to engage them,” he wrote.
“To avoid getting burned by the hot iron, both diligence and good fortune are required,” he added.
“Though this was never before a problem, and in most circumstances like it would not have been — she might have become the next Steve Jobs — broader socialization of new members and greater deliberation is important, perhaps more than I had realized.”
Today, when asked if any changes need to be made to ensure that a Holmesian imbroglio doesn’t happen again, Flier responds, “No, I don’t think any more steps are needed. I think the process — other than what happened with her — the process that I had to name 10 or 15 people to the Board worked out exceptionally well.”
“It’s a great board. It’s dedicated. The new dean is terrific. It’s a great board. I have no regrets, other than that aberration,” Gardner says.
Elizabeth A. Holmes’s legal team did not respond to a request for comment.
— Magazine writer Sophia C. Scott can be reached at sophia.scott@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @ScottSophia_.
Sections
Catherine A. “Cate” Engles ’25, a resident of Adams House, is known lovingly by some of her friends as Tequila Cate. In the beginning of October, she opened an envelope slipped under her door to find a sheet of paper covered in elegant typeface, titled “The Cate Engles Spell.” The message read: ​​”Without a purchase or a barter / We’ll make a spirit out of water / But until January we will wait / For our friend Tequila Cate.”
You might wonder from where or whom this spell came. The answer? A group that calls themselves The Witches of Adams House, composed of the Moon Witch, the Chastity Sunshine Witch, the Dark Witch, and their pet, Soup the dragon. As their witchy activities in Adams’s corridors have ramped up, the Witches have established a mysterious, eclectic, and beloved presence in the Adams House community.
Reflecting on how the group began, the student identifying herself as the Moon Witch says that “it kind of came out of nowhere.” She and her two other soon-to-be-Witches were sitting and talking in Adams one day last year, looking for something “fun, quirky, weird, exciting — because that’s kind of what Adams is, right?” (The students identifying themselves as witches would only agree to interviews if they remained anonymous.)
Given the issues that plagued Adams last year — flies in the dining hall, construction everywhere — it seemed like house morale needed a boost. “We weren’t necessarily trying to start as community-builders,” the Moon Witch says. “I think we just wanted to kind of be weird and see how the house would react.”
Yet the witch persona itself wasn’t random; historically, it has represented women breaking from the status quo. The Moon Witch gives a few examples: “Women doing science, women being creative, women reading, women dancing, women saying no.” Indeed, the Witches have lived up to that legacy, bringing unprecedented and sometimes shocking quirkiness to unsuspecting students.
We asked the Witches how one could join them. Is there an election? A comp process? Can we be punched? To which the Witches replied, “We are Witches. We’re not a club, we’re not an organization, we’re not a secret society. We’re not a final club, and you can’t comp us.”
They clarified that on a practical level, being a Witch is a big commitment. Along with being full-time undergraduate students, they drop personalized spells and memes at students’ dorms across Adams House, occasionally star in dining hall flash mobs, and plan community games, including a recent scavenger hunt whose prize was the title of Witch Apprentice. Recently, the Witches say, they’ve secured funding from Adams House to support their activities.
For the month of October, the Witches conducted a series of dorm drops, sending spells to students whose friends had requested they be bewitched. The Moon Witch explains that these drops require a lot of thought. First, the Witches must contemplate how the drop is going to be received, its timing, and how it blends with Adams House culture. Then, they have to write 40 spells that rhyme, print them, seal them in envelopes, organize them by entryway, and drop them without being noticed.
Nonetheless, the power of the Witches is incredibly versatile. They have written spells to summon Beyoncé for a live performance, to “de-messy” a physical space (the Moon Witch’s personal favorite), and to grant a job offer at Bain & Company as a management consultant.
With so much magic to disperse, the Witches don’t have time for menial tasks — especially not fixing the broken laundry machines on the third floor of the Inn, as GroupMe messages often request. They’ve clearly outlined in the Adams House GroupMe what actions they do, and do not, have time to complete. They do not have time to deal with warlocks or mortal men, with charging their flying broomsticks when they’re running late for class, or with their neighbor making too much noise with a special friend.
The Witches also made an appearance at the Adams House Formal last spring. The Moon Witch danced on the DJ platform, photobombed pictures, and took photos with other students. Adams House Resident Jeremy O. S. Ornstein ’24 got on his knees and bowed down to the Witch dressed in all black, who says of the incident: “[It] was really nice. I appreciated that.”
After the formal, however, an unknown pursuer chased after the disguised Moon Witch. Although she eventually escaped, “it was a little frightening,” she says.
As it turns out, the unknown pursuer was Ornstein, who identifies his “mission” as unmasking the witches. He provides his side of the story: “I followed them, running and calling out, ‘take off your mask, unmask yourself,’” he says.
The Witches, despite — or perhaps because of — their sustained anonymity, are well-known within their house community. “The Witches are widely accepted and welcome,” Arjun A. Akwei ’24 fondly says, even though “to this day, we still don’t know who they are or what their purpose is.”
Engles has been a fan of the Moon/Chastity Sun/Dark trio since day one. “I’ve been saying, ever since we got Adams House, that I’m obsessed with the Witches.” She sees the Witches as a sort of Adams mascot — one both reflective and challenging of Adams’s “creepy” aura.
“Here’s the thing,” Ornstein says. “I could sort of laugh about them, but the truth is, they’re fuckingamazing.” He adds that the Witches exemplify how “to make community and use magic to do it.”
More broadly, Adams residents say, the Witches prove that not everything Harvard students do needs to fit cleanly on a resume. The Witches represent a carefree existence that isn’t common at Harvard, Akwei explains. “By being this wild and [mysterious] presence, they’re adding to everyone else’s feelings that there is time [for] those experiences that don’t necessarily amount to any academic or professional end, but are more about just living with one another,” he says.
The Witches don’t believe that their activities run completely contrary to the Harvard lifestyle. “Harvard is full of a lot of passionate, colorful, creative people doing a lot of really outstanding things,” the Moon Witch says. She suggests that Harvard students should actively pursue even more of that unadulterated fun: doing things just for the sake of it.
Ornstein’s mission to uncover the Witches is rooted not only in curiosity, but in a deep admiration. “They’re not making anything from it, except the devilish satisfaction that they’re a mystery,” he says. “To do something out of your own little love and desire in your heart has just got to be a part of the culture of this place.”
Days after our interview, the Witches revealed that they will be uncovering their identities in the near future. The details of their unmasking are still unknown, so keep your eyes peeled for what they have brewing.
—Magazine writer Kate S. Griem can be reached at kate.griem@thecrimson.com
—Magazine writer Saba Mehrzad can be reached at saba.mehrzad@thecrimson.com
Sections
When we call Harvard Kennedy School Professor Arthur C. Brooks, he is driving through the mountain ranges of Utah. His voice, clear and energized, cuts across our shaky connection.
Brooks is a social scientist (and a podcast host, and a bestselling author, and a columnist for the Atlantic) who specializes in happiness. His mission centers around “lifting people up and bringing them together in bonds of happiness and love” through the use of “science and ideas.”
At Harvard, Brooks teaches on nonprofit management and leadership at HKS, as well as “Leadership and Happiness,” a course designed to reevaluate how students approach happiness in the workplace, at Harvard Business School.
Brooks discovered his interest in happiness in graduate school, while he was researching the effects of charitable giving and philanthropy. He found that when people give, they get “healthier, richer, better-looking,” a proposition that sounds both inconceivable and intriguing.
“Happier people are healthier,” he says. “Happier people are more successful in worldly terms. And happier people are more attractive to others.” To Brooks’s surprise, the positive effects of charitable giving “all came down to this happiness thing.”
Brooks’s research on happiness was also spurred by personal investments. “Frankly, I wanted to be happier,” he admits. “You know, this is not research. This is ME-search.”
Motivated by personal and professional interests, Brooks set out on a quest to find the scientific foundations of happiness. After all, in order to achieve happiness, Brooks first needed to define it. His definition takes the form of a percentage-based breakdown.
“Something like 25 percent of your happiness is due to your circumstance,” he says, noting how these don’t last forever. “Fifty percent of your baseline happiness levels are genetic. The last 25 percent or so, depending on the study you’re looking at, is habits.”
Brooks is undaunted by the components of happiness that seem out of our control — genetics and circumstance — and instead hones in on the importance of habits.
“I’m not going to go into an audience and say ‘woe is me,’” he says. “I’m going to be an agent of my happiness by working on good happiness habits, and I’m going to encourage everybody who listens to me that they should have good happiness habits too.”
Brooks arranges his happiness habits into four major categories: faith, family life, friendship, and work.
For Brooks, faith is “the sense of transcendent things bigger than you.” He lists atheism, Stoicism, and walks in nature as practices that fall under faith. “You must have something bigger than you. Because in truth, there’s a lot of things that are bigger than you,” he says. “But if you’re only paying attention to your own life, your life becomes tedious and boring.”
In family life and friendship, Brooks emphasizes the importance of relationships with people who will “take your 2 a.m. phone call” — real, emotionally meaningful relationships that go beyond the convenience of interacting in the classroom or the workplace.
To find happiness through work, Brooks recommends “earning your success” and “serving somebody who needs you.”
Though happiness is largely a personal journey, Brooks describes how social policies may influence how people move through this journey and if they have the resources to start making changes in their lives.
“You need to spend money as a society to give people a lot of opportunity, because opportunity is something that really does bring a lot of happiness,” he says.
Within Harvard, however, he thinks changes led by the College, or even students themselves, can  have more influence on fostering greater student happiness. “We need to have a lot more of a focus on the main kind of addiction to which our students fall prey,” he says. “And that’'s an addiction to success.”
Although an addiction to success seems benign, Brooks has previously written about how success activates the same neural pathways as alcohol and drugs.Students, when focused on their success, hinder their relationships with others. “At the end of the day, happiness is love, full stop. You don’t love yourself, you don’t love others, if you’re just addicted to your own success,” he says.
Students should take the problem into their hands. Don’t blame Harvard for being demanding, Brooks says. He says that “the source of the problem is that we’re too exigent. We’re all in this pressure cooker. We need to recognize that we are human beings.”
In his own teaching, Brooks says that he wants to ensure his students are “not victims to their own expectations, because that will never, ever lead to happiness.”
One solution Brooks suggests is for students to “be honest about our secrets to success and happiness, and share them with others.” The other, Brooks says, is “not getting in the way of other people’s spiritual journey.”
The direction of the journey is always toward love. He says, “human beings are built for faith and family and friendship and for work that serves. We’re built for love.”
Sections
William Z. Shen ’22 had a childhood fear of oil painting.
“My art teacher said it came with a lot of toxic fumes,” Shen tells us over chicken fried rice at Harvard’s Longwood medical campus, where he is a first-year student.
In grade school, Shen dealt instead in graphite and acrylic. In seventh grade, he drew his first portrait — a tracing of President Obama which Shen’s teacher kept on his wall until he retired.
Luckily, the portraitist Stephen Coit ’71, Shen’s art mentor while an undergraduate at Harvard, eased his anxieties. “He taught me a technique which involves soap, that doesn’t involve the toxic chemicals,” he says. “So that was reassuring.”
Shen’s very first oil painting is now Adams House’s newest portrait on display: a portrait of Fred Korematsu, the Japanese-American civil rights hero and plaintiff in the famed 1944 Supreme Court case Korematsu v. United States. Korematsu challenged President Franklin D. Roosevelt’s Executive Order 9066, which mandated the internment of over 100,000 Japanese and Japanese-American people during World War II.  Despite arguing that the relocation violated his rights,  Korematsu lost the case in a 6-3 decision that has been highly criticized for apparent racism.
Shen’s portrait was unveiled during a ceremony held in the Adams library on Oct. 20, followed by a lecture from Japanese-American scholar Erin Aoyama ’15. Aoyama’s lecture situated Korematsu’s life and activism within the history of the political fight for Asian liberation in the United States.
The painting itself depicts Korematsu standing between the American and Presidential flags, wearing the Presidential Medal of Freedom  President Bill Clinton gave him in 1998. Even in old age, he is radiant; Korematsu’s face is front-and-center, rendered in painstaking photorealistic detail. Shen took seventy hours to complete the portrait.
In his process, Shen usually begins with a subject’s eyes, which he considers the most realistic part of his portraits. It’s important to “understand the emotional state and the context in which [the subject] sat for a photo so that you can better recapitulate that,” he says. “It’s something to do with the expression in their eyes.”
Korematsu was preoccupied with his own eyes: After FDR signed the Executive Order, Korematsu got plastic surgery on his eyes in an attempt to make himself look less Japanese, hoping to avoid internment by passing for Hawaiian.
Shen himself, though he has now shifted his focus to oncology, once wanted to be a reconstructive surgeon for people who had undergone physical trauma, a specialization that he felt would serve as a “great use of [his] artistic abilities in medicine.”
Indeed, anatomy informs Shen’s artistic process; after he lays down a background color, Shen starts with dark, colorful strokes that will contour the subject’s face. He refers to these preliminary strokes as “a little bit reminiscent of a muscle.”
While much of his early work merges medicine and art (he previously made graphics and digital art about health and science for organizations including the National Health Service in England), Shen now sees a greater separation between his two disciplinary interests. “I don’t really anticipate using much ‘fine art’ for a true medical purpose,” Shen says. He brings up the Longwood Symphony Orchestra, which is composed of professors, doctors, and medical students, as an example of medicine and art coexisting without overlap.
“I don’t think it’s a bad thing, having that disconnect, though, because I really view art as my creative outlet, something that can use the other side of my brain,” he says.
Shen’s portrait of Korematsu hangs beside a portrait of President Franklin D. Roosevelt, troubling the way the viewer receives the former president’s likeness. Before painting the Korematsu portrait, Shen was also commissioned by Adams House to paint abolitionist Frederick Douglass; the portrait now hangs next to that of Douglass’s friend U.S. Senator Charles Sumner. These two pairings represent an effort by Adams faculty to complicate the stories chronicled on the House’s walls, says Shen, who lived in Adams as an undergraduate and now serves as a non-resident arts tutor there.
“We in Adams House want to balance the narrative of history, recognize that even great people have faults,” he says. “We’re not necessarily trying to cancel anybody.”  Rather, he aims to “more accurately depict the current community of members of Harvard, which involves having more diverse paintings on the walls.”
Adams Faculty Dean Salmaan Keshavjee, who also spoke at the unveiling, hopes that the new portrait encourages a broader awareness of not just Korematsu’s work but also its impact on intersectional solidarity. “[Korematsu] recognized that the plight of Japanese people was not for Japanese people alone,” he says. “He recognized the fact that there were a lot of people who were facing similar structural violence in America.”
In the portrait itself, Korematsu is framed by red and blue, two of Shen’s favorite colors. Shen says this is more of an artistic choice than a political one. “I'm a Canadian, so I'm not really trying to cause any sort of tension.”
Shen likes to give his subjects some grace. He wants “to depict people how they would want to be portrayed,” he says. In the new portrait, Shen intends to convey a sense of joy and pride befitting a moment of long-awaited recognition for the subject. Today, Korematsu beams above the Adams dinner rush, eyes crinkled in a proud smile.
Sections
Most students who enter the Queen’s Head Pub are not expecting to learn about the history of Harvard student life. Yet an unassuming student using their BoardPlus money for chicken wings might stumble across an unexpected and peculiar piece of Harvard’s extracurricular history: the Varsity Mandolin Club.
On the pub’s wall, a glass-framed poster displays a 1900 advertisement for “a trial of candidates” for the long-forgotten club. With its earliest records dating back to the 1890s and continuing through the 1930s, the club existed during a fleeting American obsession with the mandolin. The poster’s recruitment language is firm — “every one playing the mandola or flute is urged to try,” it reads.
Through the late 19th and early 20th century, Harvard’s all-male Mandolin Club, alongside female mandolin players from Radcliffe, entertained the campus with their annual shows. Students could buy tickets at the Harvard Co-operative store for their performances, which included collaborations with Harvard’s Varsity Glee Club and the mandolin clubs of other schools, such as Yale and Dartmouth. The club also played a part in campus spirit, performing during football games.
The mandolin’s outsized presence on campus can be attributed to the stringed instrument’s growing popularity in the United States at the time, as well as to a traveling band called the Figaro Spanish Students. Inspired by the 1878 performances of a similar band, the Spanish Students, during the Paris World’s Fair, the Fidalgo group began a tour of the United States in 1880. Their concerts introduced the music of the bandurria, a Spanish folk instrument often referred to as the “Spanish Mandolin,” to the American public. They inspired a flurry of similar mandolin bands, who copied the Spanish Students’ style, costumes, and sometimes even their name.
Young Americans, entranced by the mandolin’s sound and European associations, took to the instrument like mad. They formed mandolin clubs and orchestras across the country, and at the start of the 20th century, mandolin sales even outstripped guitar sales, albeit by a small margin.
Harvard’s own Mandolin Club enjoyed a similar popularity, and by 1895, it had expanded to include a total of six first mandolins, four second mandolins, and four guitars. That year, the club also welcomed a new, lesser-known instrument — a flageolet, a type of compact wind instrument resembling a small whistle. The Crimson documented the club’s growth, writing in 1893 that “an unusually promising lot of men responded last night to the call for candidates for the Mandolin and Guitar Club.”
The mandolin attracted enough students to warrant the creation of two separate groups: the Freshman and the Varsity Mandolin Clubs. The classification may seem strange for a musical group — indeed most of the language around the club is reserved for organized sports today. Auditions were called “trials,” a series of shows were called a “season,” and the club’s director was even referred to as a “coach.” Even the term “varsity” itself, which was originally derived from an abbreviation of the word “university,” reflects a change in the language that we use to describe musical groups.
The Mandolin Club underwent many transformations during its time at Harvard — sometimes it combined with the Glee Club, sometimes it adopted the name “Mandolin and Guitar Club” and other times “Mandolin and Banjo Club.” The Mandolin Freshman Club had a four-year hiatus in 1916, before being briefly resurrected in 1920.
The urgent diction of The Mandolin Club’s 1900 recruitment poster in Queen’s Head may reflect the eventual dwindling influence of the mandolin fad. In 1895, The Crimson complained that only five men appeared at the club’s trial, and commented that “the talent shown was not of the best.”
“If the mandolin players in college have not sufficient interest to attend trials, the club will be seriously affected,” the article continues. By the 1900s, there were few candidates to choose from during the trials, and The Crimson reported that, “if any one of the clubs fails to be formed, no acceptable concerts can be given in the spring.”
In 1937, Harvard’s Instrumental Clubs held a meeting in Lowell House, complete with “barrels of beer and an evening of informal singing,” according to a Crimson article at the time. But after the festivities, they turned to “the question of the Mandolin Club,” and decided that due to insufficient interest, the club would only continue as a string ensemble, if at all.
Mandolin orchestras across the country suffered similar fates during that period as young Americans turned to other leisure activities and new forms of music, such as jazz. Harvard’s own club was replaced by a string ensemble, but photos of decades-worth of mandolin players can still be found in a collection of old Harvard yearbooks stored in Pusey Library.
Sections
Twice a week, Harvard Law School students and Boston residents sit down together in a room to discuss the city’s housing crisis. At one meeting, shouts fill the air within minutes.
“Are you ready to fight for your home?” a local resident yells. The entire room — students and residents alike — cries in response, “We will fight with you!”
This scene depicts a typical meeting hosted by City Life/Vida Urbana, a grassroots organization working to address housing-related issues in the Boston area. At these meetings, CLVU members convene with residents and Project No One Leaves, a canvassing group led by Harvard Law School students.
Earlier this month, this group secured a historic victory: Boston Mayor Michelle Wu ’07 announced that the East Boston Community Development Core had acquired 36 multi-family buildings to be set aside for affordable housing in the East Boston neighborhood.
The buildings form part of the newly-created East Boston Neighborhood Trust, Massachusetts’ first Mixed Income Neighborhood Trust in which local neighborhood organizations and building tenants manage the property. Beyond increasing the decision-making power of local residents to shape where they live, MINTs housing units are also kept affordable in perpetuity, providing some relief to an immigrant neighborhood facing rising rents in the midst of a national housing crisis.
For over a decade, HLS students have supported the mission of CLVU in maintaining affordable housing across Boston. Initially, Harvard Legal Aid Bureau, an HLS student organization, provided legal assistance on individual eviction cases of CLVU members. In the wake of the 2008 recession, simultaneous foreclosure and eviction crises across the city enabled speculative investors to buy up property in places like East Boston, increasing rates of resident displacement.
According to Andres Del Castillo, director of development at CLVU, the neighborhood’s residents did not expect this rapid wave of gentrification. “This was so nascent to East Boston that our community didn't know their rights,” he says. “It wasn’t common knowledge that you had rights to defend [yourself], that you didn't have to leave in a week’s notice if the landlord asked you to.”
To give residents this fighting chance, CLVU and HLAB students formed Project No One Leaves. Instead of traditional legal aid like casework, PNOL uses grassroots organizing strategies that range from distributing “Know Your Rights” pamphlets to building tenant associations and publicizing rallies. The goals of this organizing: mobilize residents, deter displacement, and keep property in residents’ hands.
Like any community organizing model, PNOL leverages strengths in numbers. “At the end of the day, we have a lot of people at our disposal,” says HLS student and current PNOL board member Isa M. Badia Bellinger. “It’s not any special skill of being a law student.”
While the work itself may not be unique to lawyers, these organizing efforts can help law students who “feel trapped in the confines” of traditional legal work to “break out” and work in different ways with local residents, she says. “You meet people going door to door, but I really enjoy that we actually canvass with members of the community and members of CLVU.”
Steve Meacham, who has worked as a CLVU organizing coordinator for 22 years and built the relationship with Harvard students since its beginning, has seen the power of PNOL’s on-the-ground efforts to shift Harvard students’ perceptions of local communities, which have not always been positive.
“Whenever students leave at the end of the year, they leave with tears in their eyes, because there is such an outpouring of affection for [residents], and vice versa,” Meacham says. “We have to caution [residents], they’re not all like that, you know?”
As Meacham alludes to, the relationship between university students and local residents is not always so cut and dried. Many of the buildings that now form part of the East Boston Neighborhood trust were once purchased by speculative investors, renovated, and marketed for student housing.
“It was a very, very clear investment strategy that was based off a student market,” says Del Castillo. “The idea that someone was coming in to turn the neighborhood into student housing was something that few people in East Boston responded well to. That’s not who we know Eastie to be.”
Nonetheless, Del Castillo asserts that the problems of gentrification and displacement in East Boston do not originate from student renters themselves. “We have no beef with them. There are much larger market forces to hold accountable than where a college student is Google searching, or Zillow searching, or Craiglist hunting for their next apartment.”
On the contrary, building relationships with student groups like PNOL and leveraging their unique assets is the bread and butter of community organizing, he says. “It comes back down to that very organic community skill of power mapping and saying, ‘Who do we know? How do we move who we know in alignment with the community and what the community needs?’”
For Del Castillo, the second question is equally as important as the first. A successful partnership with university students means community partners take the lead in setting the agenda.
“As somebody who’s been in this work for 10 years now, there is no other law clinic working in as deep coordination, or values and principles alignment, than HLAB,” Del Castillo says. “That’s a model for other students to push their local clinics and others to pursue so that there is deep alignment and solidarity in how university resources — and the experiences that are useful for students in exercising and practicing law — can actually benefit the community.”
While the East Boston Neighborhood Trust represents a major win for CLVU and residents of East Boston, Del Castillo says that much work is left to be done. “It is not just East Boston who’s facing a displacement crisis — it’s our entire city,” he says.
Mike Leyba, co-executive director of CLVU, hopes to expand the model of the East Boston Neighborhood Trust to other communities across Boston, putting control over neighborhood development back into the hands of some of the most marginalized Bostonians. “What’s possible if we had the autonomy and the ability to chart our own future, chart the future of the neighborhood and create our own path?” Leyba asks.
PNOL members, says Badia Bellinger, want to support that local mission as much as they can, by “providing the resources” they have access to but “not thinking that we know more than anybody else.”
After all, she says, “people are masters of their own stories.”
— Magazine writer Ciana J. King can be reached at ciana.king@thecrimson.com.
Sections
Looking at Dr. Deirdre L. Barrett’s artwork, you feel like you’re entering another world, or maybe just a different version of your own. A world that’s psychedelic, dripping with color and texture and pulling inspiration from the likes of Edward Gorey and Hieronymous Bosch.
Each square inch of Barrett’s work contains a mind-boggling explosion of detail. Picture animals whose feathers melt into scales, eerie faces emerging from trees, and the Harvard Lampoon, a semi-secret Sorrento Square social organization that used to publish a so-called humor magazine, covered in bird heads. A Lecturer on Psychology and prominent dream researcher, Barrett likes to inhabit the spaces we can’t firmly grasp — the hours between wake and sleep, the gap between the real and unreal, the world of dreams.
Dreams have always compelled Barrett. By the age of six, she realized that she was different from other kids at school — her dreams were bizarre and vivid, and she seemed to remember them with startling accuracy. “As a really little kid, when I only remember discussing [dreams] with my parents, I kind of thought it was a kid thing,” she says. As she got a little older, she realized that the other kids on the playground weren’t experiencing the same thing. “I guess it was then that I did get that I seemed to have more and more vivid dreams,” she recalls.
And her dreams are, admittedly, a little strange. In an email, Barrett describes one of her recent dreams, about “some bird people that are incubating a fetus in an odd incubator while a ghost floats overhead that is both sort of another image of the fetus and sort of the spirit of a deceased entity the fetus is replacing.” Instead of shying away from the weirdness of her dreams, Barrett leans into it.
“I relate to dreams more as metaphoric, meaningful things that you can get both personal insight and creative inspiration [from],” she says.
The path to dream research felt natural to her. “[I] realized that [if] somebody was going to pay me to work with dreams all the time, I’d better major in psychology and go to graduate school in it.”
As an academic, Barrett has explored the impact of mass trauma on dreams. In June of 2020, she published “Pandemic Dreams”: a book inspired by 15,000 individuals’ Covid-related dream submissions. The accounts were strikingly similar at the start, but “decoupled in time” as different states and countries adopted different public health policies, she says. (Barrett notes that despite most mask mandates being lifted, people are still dreaming about forgetting their masks; it’s the modern-day equivalent of the classic “naked in public” dream.) Today, she is working on finding more empirical ways to characterize Covid-era dreams.
Starting in the mid-2000s, Barrett began writing for the general public as a means of increasing accessibility to her scientific research. “I started writing trade books, and I started doing movie reviews of films about dreams, and moved a little bit away from the ‘academic-only’ way of talking about dreams,” she says. Eventually, her hunger to represent dreams began to take the form of another medium — art.
Throughout her career, Barrett would occasionally use pencils or watercolors to try and recreate images from her dreams when they were particularly compelling. However, these sketches were often more frustrating than illuminating for Barrett, since they would typically wind up looking “like a second grader had done it,” she says.
Barrett was stumped not only by the discrepancy between the vividness of her dreams and her disappointing artistic ability, but by her friends’ inability to understand her goals: she was not interested in making art based on her dreams, but rather in using art to reproduce her dreams. "If I could have just projected photographically what was in my head, that would have been the ideal,” she says.
It wasn’t until six and a half years ago, at an art show by Nobel Laureate and former Harvard biochemistry professor Walter Gilbert ’53, that Barrett was inspired to use photography and digital photo editing to reproduce her dreamscapes more accurately. Soon after that, when she had a dream about a mask coming to life, she reached for her camera roll instead of her sketchpad. “I already have some photographs of masks because I collect masks when I go to mask shows,” Barrett says. Starting with a picture of a real mask, then adding “living eyes” and “some of the creatures that were crawling up the side of its face” changed the game.
Barrett has also recently begun to experiment with a computer program called Deep Dream, which generates images from text narratives of dreams or user-uploaded base images. Barrett appreciates the ability of Deep Dream to recreate dreams with a “sparkly psychedelic” or “unreal, night time glittery” look.
Despite having sampled the various advantages of Photoshop, DALL-E, and traditional painting, Barrett is still looking for the perfect way to put her dreams to paper. As a result, her artistic style has changed over the years, with earlier pieces featuring iridescent jewel tones and later ones including more matte, muted images. “It feels like I'm still kind of learning and experimenting,” she says.
The target of her ambitions — the dreams themselves — is moving, too. Barrett has started dreaming less as she has gotten older, putting a clock on her source material. She recounts with some horror that she “actually failed to recall a dream one night this week in any dream content at all,” she says. Despite these challenges, she plans on continuing to use art to bring dreams to the general public — projecting her mesmerizing and fantastical dreamscapes onto the waking world.
Sections
It’s all but impossible to talk to Lucas Chu and Emmet A. Halm at the same time. During our last attempt at a joint conversation — a Zoom call on Halloween — Lucas was in Lisbon for a cryptocurrency conference, Emmet was in Los Angeles, and we were in Cambridge. Understandably, Lucas bungled the time zones and missed our call.
Lucas and Emmet, both 21, have been traveling the world ever since they “dropped out” of Harvard last winter to build their startup, DAOHQ — though, as they both tell us, no one ever really drops out of Harvard; they are both technically on indefinite leave. By the end of last spring, they had raised $1.3 million in pre-seed funding for DAOHQ. Mark Cuban was among their investors.
Hundreds of DAOs are launched every week, and the market is worth billions of dollars. A DAO — which stands for decentralized autonomous organization — is an online group that makes decisions collectively, without a central authority. DAOs are like companies, but all DAO members are equal, and all decisions are programmed in computer code called smart contracts.
Emmet and Lucas saw a problem within the DAO landscape. Aside from coming across a DAO on Twitter or seeing it mentioned on a Discord server, it is hard to find, evaluate, and invest in DAOs. This is where DAOHQ — a marketplace for DAOs that aggregates and standardizes them in a directory for users to browse — comes in. By streamlining DAOs and making them more accessible, DAOHQ envisions a world economy where anyone — regardless of their race, their education, their nationality, their gender — can have a stake.
Their idea was innovative enough to impress several high-profile investors. “Emmet and Lucas blew my mind and it was a no-brainer to invest,” unicorn entrepreneur and angel investor Andres Bilbao told Forbes for a profile of DAOHQ that came out in April.
DAOHQ and its investors are part of a brave-ish, new-ish world of decentralization — a much-contested alternative to traditional finance that some herald as the future of a more democratic economic order and others see as a fraudulent, speculative craze.
DAOs run on cryptocurrency, a digital financial medium that removes the third party (banks and governments). Cryptocurrencies rely on digital transactions that are protected with cryptography and decentralization. They use blockchain technology, a public ledger on a network distributed across computers. (This means that all users can see all transactions.) By eliminating the third party and providing security and transparency, crypto, its supporters argue, is a solution to the distrust that has pervaded financial institutions since the 2008 recession and Occupy Wall Street movement.
Emmet emphasizes how cryptocurrency reverses the barrier to entry typical of financial institutions. Traditional banks require accreditation, and place limits on how and when people can invest, Emmet says, “versus crypto, you just do whatever you want.”
But without the stability of centralized institutions, cryptocurrency has seen dramatic booms and busts in its barely decadal life span: The market was worth a staggering $3 trillion in 2021, before $2 trillion were erased in a crash this past summer.
Lucas and Emmet see themselves as part of a new vanguard of entrepreneurs entering this uncertain space. They present themselves as distinct from the familiar archetype of the elite college drop-out turned wunderkind entrepreneur, modeled and tainted by people like Mark Zuckerberg and Elizabeth Holmes. In dropping out to pursue a cryptocurrency-dependent start-up, Emmet and Lucas have exited institutions twice-over: they’ve left both Harvard and the realm of traditional finance.
We met with Lucas and Emmet through the fall as they embarked on their second round of fundraising. Along the way, we spoke with other young entrepreneurs, professors, high school students, Harvard Innovation Lab members, and investors in an attempt to understand what Lucas and Emmet are doing, how and why they’re doing it, and what’s at stake.
We also visited the first “Dropout House,” where Lucas and Emmet crash periodically with a group of other drop-out (or drop-out adjacent) entrepreneurs in Somerville. More such Dropout Houses are on the way. As the website for dropout.club, a network of dropout community houses Lucas is trying to found, reads: “Whether they help start a new country like Alexander Hamilton or save the rap game like Kanye West, dropouts change the world.”
“'I’m free from ‘Daddy Harvard’ and ‘Daddy McKinsey,’” Emmet says. “I'm in control of my own fate, and it could blow up. It could blow up and go up, it could blow up and go down. But I'm just here relying on my skills and not relying on other people or institutions. I think a lot of that's the crypto ethos as well.”
But Emmet makes sure to mention that the “value-add” in taking a leave — his sentences are often peppered with this pseudo-economic language — is the pride. There is pride, he says, in taking a pause to pursue something you care about. Implicit in this sentiment is the contrarian notion that everyone else, especially everyone else at Harvard, is not doing this.
Emmet smiles. “It's almost like, the prestige of turning down the prestige is higher than the prestige itself.”
This isn’t Lucas Chu’s first time dropping out. He actually dropped out of middle school, he says.
We’re walking around the glass flowers exhibit in the Harvard Museum of Natural History, which Lucas chose because he wanted to do our interview somewhere he had never been. It’s early September, and our first time meeting. He was hard to pin to a time and place, changing both last minute, and arriving more than half an hour late. As we roam around the gallery, he recounts his peripatetic childhood, split between continents and schools. He talks quickly and jumps between topics.
He was born in Germany, then moved with his family to New York, primarily for the school system. But he dropped out at age 11 to pursue crypto mining “full time” after discovering it online, he says. (“The legendary story is that Lucas installed Bitcoin miners on the school computers,” Emmet tells us later. “It’s a good origin story.”)
Lucas’s parents were not thrilled. After that truancy episode, they sent him to Fordham Preparatory School, a Catholic all boys’ school in the Bronx, where he thrived: He served as student government president, volunteered at Habitat for Humanity, became a Cadet Captain in the Civil Air Patrol, and raised tens of thousands of dollars for charities including UNICEF and various cancer organizations.
He entered Harvard in fall 2019, as part of the class of 2023. As his online presence attests, he was very busy in his first few years: His Instagram bio reads that he’s “founded a dozen non-profits,” and he claims on his website, a Harvard scholar address, that in the 2020-2021 year he took 20 courses and worked on over 20 research projects. Much of his nonprofit work, he says later, is under his umbrella organization Erevna, and was facilitated by Discord channels that he had registered as 501c(3)s.
One of his projects was the Coronavirus Visualization Team, an organization Lucas founded in the spring of 2020, soon after Harvard students were sent home by the Covid-19 pandemic. CVT creates projects and graphics to illustrate impacts of Covid-19. A number of high schoolers joined CVT hoping to do meaningful Covid-19 work. Rachel Kurapati, a senior at Redmond High School in Washington, says CVT is “definitely something [she’s] highlighting” in her early application to Harvard.
Before he dropped out, Lucas took a broad range of courses: intermediate poetry, a seminar on the Harvard Forest, a course on managing existential risk. His schedule required a liberal approach to Harvard guidelines. “At Harvard, there’s no real ‘no.’ If you're a student, you can't cross register at [Harvard Business School]. But I just did anyway,” he says.
Through his academic and extracurricular work, he was always trying to organize groups of people, he says. “I realized that there's billions of people out there, literally… and so the question is, how do we bring them together? How do you globalize effectively?”
***
Emmet sips coffee from a small teacup. He has his coffee with coconut oil and a square of dark chocolate. We’re on Zoom for our first conversation; it’s morning for him in Seoul, South Korea.
Emmet, who’s originally from Dallas, went to a Catholic high school (like Lucas), where he power-lifted and played varsity water polo. He was admitted to Harvard’s class of 2023. As a freshman and prospective History concentrator, he took intensive Russian, spent time at the Harvard Institute of Politics in discussion and research groups, and wrote articles on issues of national security for the Harvard Political Review. He also joined the Negotiation Task Force at Harvard’s Davis Center for Russian and Eurasian Studies, a group that works towards solutions for Euro-Atlantic and Euruasion security challenges.
Covid-19 sent all students home in spring of 2020, but Emmet didn’t return the following fall. He took a gap year instead. It was during that time that he caught the entrepreneurial bug, starting Acceptitas, an education technology company that helps students build passion projects in order to get into top universities.
“Through that, I found company building is what I like to do,” he says. “It's where I am at my best. It’s super energizing, and it's where I feel I can make the most impact.”
Emmet came back to campus in Fall 2021, still working on Accepitas. Back at school, he dabbled in real estate, leasing a Somerville apartment and renting it out to short term tenants. He also started writing for the Harvard Lampoon, a semi-secret Sorrento Square social organization that used to occasionally publish a so-called humor magazine. In his Instagram bio, he describes himself as a weight-lifting, rooftop-DJing entrepreneur.
Emmet emphasizes Harvard’s “very, very positive” role in his personal growth. He took a course on startups and networked with entrepreneurs coming through campus. He cites Classical Chinese and Ethical Political Theory, taught by philosophy professor Michael J. Puett, as having changed his life. This course introduced Emmet to the concept of energies — what gives and what takes away.
“What was giving me energy was working on these businesses and thinking about new ideas and pursuing large problems with really cool people,” Emmet says. “Writing essays was taking energy away.”
The summer before, Emmet also worked as an intern at an IT consulting firm in D.C., and realized quickly he never wanted to work for anybody again. “I was just doing meaningless work for someone,” he explains later. “I know I would work harder for myself than I would for anyone else.”
So he turned to a budding interest that he had been nurturing for the past year: crypto.
Emmet sat in his Harvard dorm “ideating.” He was intrigued by a niche crypto use case called a DAO, or a decentralized autonomous organization.
To better understand how a DAO works, the YouTube channel Cryptomatics offers a helpful hypothetical: Imagine you want to buy a house. You’d have to take out a loan from the bank, but that’s not ideal. So instead, you pitch in with your friends and together you buy a house, of which you are all the owners. Someone washes the dishes, another person cooks, another decorates. You all run it together, and no changes — financial or otherwise — can be made without the consent of everybody in the house.
In a DAO, you may not even know the names of the people in your “house,” or where they are, or what they look like. But the theory is relatively simple — those with greater stakes in DAOs will be incentivized to make better decisions. It’s an independent body where the leaders are on the same plane as the members because they are the members. What makes DAOs special is that they can function in a way that doesn’t rely on bureaucracy or external leadership, and that transactions are all immediately traceable through blockchain.
“It’s a really cool, new way of organizing people and money on the internet,” Emmet says. “And I thought, ‘Wow, this is a very interesting idea.’”
Lucas and Emmet first met back in 2019, when they had both participated in an eerily prescient simulation of the Russian invasion of Ukraine while working at the Davis Center. They reconnected last fall at a party hosted by Lucas’s roommates — about five or six people, Emmet says, making sushi together in a DeWolfe dorm room.
Emmet approached first, Lucas says.
“Honestly, what happened is he was looking for a co-founder. And so he asked his friends, ‘Who's the smartest person you know?’ And then I guess I came up a bunch of times,” Lucas says. (Emmet corroborates this on a later phone call — “Lucas is the Elon of our grade,” he says.)
They agreed to meet at Blue Bottle Coffee. Emmet suggested it for its proximity to the Lampoon, where he was spending much of his time. They grabbed matcha lattes, then sat at the counter bench for an hour and shared their ideas for Web3 (a catch-all encompassing blockchain, decentralization, and tokens).
“Why is there no Coinbase or OpenSea for DAOs?” Lucas recalls asking. Coinbase is a platform for buying, selling, and storing cryptocurrencies; OpenSea, similarly, is a marketplace for Non-Fungible Tokens. The idea, then, was to make a comparable platform for DAOs.
“Why is there no one aggregator for anyone — from my professor to someone on the street — to be able to be a part of this revolution?” Lucas says.
In our separate conversations, both Lucas and Emmet claim the big idea, this next step of the revolution. Lucas says “I had this idea for the last decade,” while Emmet says “A marketplace for DAOs was my idea.” In a final conversation, they somewhat reconcile this — Lucas “had been thinking about it,” but they agree Emmet pitched it. Regardless, DAOHQ emerged, as did a new partnership between Lucas and Emmet.
DAOHQ is “the one-stop-shop to find, invest, and vote in extraordinary DAOs,” reads its interactive website. “We’re looking for bright, ambitious minds to become a part of history.”
During winter break in 2020, the duo “grinded,” as Emmet puts it. If they could make “significant traction or get funding,” they’d take an indefinite leave, he recalls thinking. Emmet was learning Italian at the time, and would be in Milan from the end of December until late January, while Lucas was at home in New York. Emmet came back to campus the last week of January, but asked to take a leave in the first weeks of the semester. Lucas didn’t officially take a leave until March — he just wasn’t going to class. As Emmet puts it, they were both “all in.”
So DAOHQ was forged somewhere between Milan and Cambridge, New York and eventually Miami. Inherent in this beginning is the global intellectualism so foundational to Lucas and Emmet’s operations. If you are smart, you can be smart anywhere, and the world is not that big — not really.
***
The money came fast — a lot of it.
In January, soon after DAOHQ was formed, Lucas had a call to “catch up” with an old acquaintance — Dean Thomas, the CEO of Stealth Capital, a venture capital firm. They had met way back in 2013, when Lucas first became involved in crypto.
Lucas invited Emmet to join the call, and they ended up pitching DAOHQ to Thomas. He was receptive to the idea, and after some “due diligence,” offered the pair $200,000, according to Lucas.
“We are very proud to back Emmet and Lucas alongside Mark Cuban as the earliest checks in their entrepreneurial journey,” Thomas wrote in an email. “The DAOHQ team is tackling a difficult problem, but after working with them and experiencing their domain knowledge first hand, we’re confident in our investment into DAOHQ.”
We press Lucas on this — why would someone he met once, almost a decade ago, invest hundreds of thousands of dollars after just one meeting? How did he even meet Thomas?
Lucas hedges a bit. “It’s kind of embarrassing. He worked as an intern for my mom, basically,” he says, adding that his mom “was a banker.” When Lucas met Thomas back in 2013, it wasn’t at a crypto meeting — it was at a “kickback” after Thomas’s summer internship.
For the rest of their early fundraising, they kept it “casual,” asking for money from just “friends and family,” Lucas says. They raised $800,000 in “a few days.”
After a pause, Lucas amends slightly: “More like friends of friends.” DAOHQ rode an investment wave: According to Reuters, total global investment into cryptocurrency hit $9.3 billion in 2021, up from $5.6 billion in 2020.
According to Bruce Schneier, a cryptographer and current fellow at the Berkman Klein Center for Internet and Society, this mass influx of capital is a “speculative bubble,” as he wrote in an email. “There’s an enormous amount of hype. So even the stupidest things would get funding if they used the word ‘blockchain.’ It's kind of embarrassing, really.”
Other student entrepreneurs corroborate the ease of fundraising this time last year. Jeffrey G. Wang ’25 founded another online marketplace, Quidio.co, last year, and interned at Rift Finance, which he witnessed raise $18 million in its Series A fundraising round.
“The traditional VC world is known for throwing around money. The crypto VC world is even worse,” Wang says. “The start-up founders I worked with were like, ‘Yeah, if you want to make a blockchain startup you should just do it now. You can raise a million dollars if you have enough key words in it.’”
In January, Lucas and Emmet moved beyond their personal networks and started cold emailing investors — including Mark Cuban, whose investment would prove an inflection point for DAOHQ. In their pitch to Cuban, Lucas and Emmet capitalized on the Harvard dropout image. “It doesn't hurt that we're saying that we're Harvard dropouts, trying to build the OpenSea for DAOs,” Lucas says.
The pitch worked: Cuban invested some amount less than $500,000 into the company. (Lucas and Emmet did not disclose a more precise range.)
We reached out to Cuban to ask about his confidence in his investment amid criticisms of crypto volatility and speculation. “Not everyone is capable of separating the signal from the noise. The speculation is just noise,” he wrote in an email. “From stocks to baubles. Speculation has always been a popular sport.”
Indeed, there is “plenty” of value in crypto for investors, Cuban maintains, adding a piece of advice: “A simple rule of thumb is to ask if it’s an application that you would use personally. If yes, do your diligence and consider whether the current price is worth paying. If not, walk away.”
In February, Lucas and Emmet attended ETHDenver, a large crypto conference where they met scores of other crypto enthusiasts and venture capitalists — and also contracted Covid-19. The number of activities at the conference was “ridiculous,” Lucas says.“Across four days, there's like 1,000 events, which is more than Burning Man.” (He clarifies later that he has not personally been to Burning Man, and that there may have been fewer than 1,000 events; a CNBC article suggests it was closer to 500.)
In sum, they raised $1.3 million in their pre-seed round, which closed in late April. In an Instagram post announcing the total, they’re posed in dark t-shirts and jeans, arms flexed, smiling slightly, mirroring each other. In all the images of the two of them together we found online, they’re positioned in these clothes, in this way.
To contextualize DAOHQ in the broader crypto landscape, we spoke with James H. Waldo, who teaches computer science at Harvard’s School of Engineering and Applied Sciences and technology and policy at the Harvard Kennedy School. He also serves as the School of Engineering’s chief technology officer, and has been working in distributed systems and consensus algorithms — fundamental aspects of DAOs — for decades.
He’s not sold on DAOs as revolutionary, or even effective. Corporations already have shareholders who vote, he points out, so the voting system of DAOs isn’t all that new. “Distributed autonomous organizations no doubt are an attempt to recreate something we already know how to do, but in a way that doesn't seem to work very well,” he says.
He recounts a conversation with Schneier, whom we had spoken with earlier. “[Bruce] said to me, ‘You know, there must be some good distributed stuff in crypto because the cryptography is crap.’ And I realized that I thought there must be some good cryptography because the distributed systems [were] crap.”
Waldo cites the ConstitutionDAO, which formed in November 2021, as an example of how DAOs’ decentralized structure can pose problems. ConstitutionDAO raised tens of millions of dollars from tens of thousands of people in a bid to buy a rare copy of the U.S. Constitution at a Sotheby’s auction. ConstitutionDAO lost the bid. But due to a lack of accountability, Waldo says, the DAO had no way to return the money, and refund attempts were waylaid by steep fees.
It’s not the only example of such a failure. The original DAO, formed in 2016, was hacked only a few months after its inception, resulting in a $60 million loss.
And beyond their dubious functionality, DAOs themselves pose risks, Waldo says, since their decentralization and anonymity renders them great tools for nefarious actors.
“The main forms of use these days are for money laundering and ransomware payments,” he says.
Emmet pushes back on this assessment. “Crypto is good for money laundering. It's also good for a lot of other things. Cash is really good for money laundering. Small businesses in America are phenomenal for money laundering,” he says. “The same tech you would use for money laundering, you also use for privacy and protecting people who might be in places where they have oppressive governments.”
He gives the example of Ukraine DAO, which has raised millions of dollars for the Ukrainian war effort, including from Russians who may have otherwise been unable to donate. Yet at the same time, he adds that the traceability of crypto makes it “pretty bad for illicit activity.”
Waldo’s concerns are not unique: Nationally, bipartisan lawmakers are pushing to regulate cryptocurrencies and DAOs. The classification of digital assets is being adjudicated by the courts on a case by case basis, explains Howell E. Jackson, a professor at Harvard Law School. Jackson has consulted for the United States Treasury Department, the United Nations Development Program, the World Bank, and the International Monetary Fund.
Historically, bitcoin, which Jackson calls “the grandfather of cryptocurrencies,” has been classified as a commodity, but the Securities and Exchange Commission is currently arguing in court that Ripple, a digital currency exchange, is a security.
The security versus commodity distinction determines which regulatory bodies the digital assets are subject to, and therefore which rules they have to play by — making it difficult for entrepreneurs to know what’s fair game. Currently, legislation like the Bipartisan Responsible Financial Innovation Act, introduced this past June, tries to standardize these regulations.
In sum, it's “a little bit of a muddle right now,” Jackson says. “A contested space.”
Both Lucas and Emmet offer support for clarifying standards. “They're thinking about how to support grandmas and their pensions,” Lucas says, “and that's something we support as well.”
But Waldo and Schneier are less sure that DAOs are secure enough for, as Lucas puts it, grandmas’ pensions.
“Notions of smart contracts are attempts to replace things that we have actually worked for a long time to understand and put into a framework that works for everybody, like contracts, and replace them with software, which is generally unreliable, and unproven,” Waldo says.
…
Their successful pre-seed fundraising enabled Lucas and Emmet to start recruiting employees. Lucas says they received over 1,000 applications.
In some DAOHQ recruiting emails, Lucas offered to compensate people for applying. “We’ll pay you!” one reads, in bold. “I'll venmo you once our recruiting round is over.” Their rate: $5 for applying and signing up, $2 for every referral, and $10 for every successful referral.
By the end of the spring, they had hired six full time team members across the world. “It's kind of cool, because every call is multiple time zones, countries, nationalities,” Lucas says.
In March, Emmet and Lucas set up headquarters in Miami, a major crypto hub.
“We got an Airbnb that was actually like sharing a bed, because Miami is so expensive,” Lucas says. (Emmet corroborates the bed-sharing on a phone call.)
Then in the summer, they watched the crypto world burn around them.
In early May, the price of Bitcoin dropped, and Coinbase, a major cryptocurrency exchange, plunged in value. A staggering $300 billion were lost as cryptocurrency prices collapsed.
“Terra went from 50 billion to zero in a few days. It was very cool,” Lucas says, referring to the cryptocurrency token Terra (LUNA), the disintegration of which precipitated the broader collapse. “Actually I was up at 2 a.m., looking at this. Before my eyes, I saw it go from 69 cents to 30 cents.” (On a later phone call, he says he used cool in a “morbid” way to mean “not cool at all.”)
For crypto critics, the crash seemed to validate characterizations of the currency as speculative and unsustainable, prone to inflationary bubbles and collapses.
“All currency is a consensual hallucination. But cryptocurrency is a consensual hallucination without the backing of any major government,” Waldo says. “Currencies are not speculative devices. Crypto is a speculative device.”
Luckily, DAOHQ closed its pre-seed round before the crash, and Lucas and Emmet were not planning on fundraising over the summer. Now this fall, despite the volatility of the market, Lucas and Emmet are pushing on undeterred.
“If you're bullish and excited long term, there's no reason to really fret that,” Emmet says. “The worst parts about crypto were generally flushed out — the people that were just in it for the really high highs, or building scammy projects. There's not enough oxygen and hype to thrive. And so right now, it’s just tons of people building who are solving real problems.”
When we first spoke with Lucas in early September, DAOHQ was about to launch its next round of fundraising — for which they set a $3 million target. Attempting to reach their goal would test the viability of the company, and would require weeks of constant domestic and international travel — from Seoul to New York City, Toronto to Los Angeles.
With Lucas and Emmet away, we planned a visit to their local launchpad, which Lucas has termed the “Dropout House”: a colony of young entrepreneurs, with varying fractions of Harvard and MIT degrees completed, all living in the same house in Somerville. Lucas and Emmet crash here when they’re in town for a per diem rate.
This house is only the first Dropout House — Lucas is already working on Dropout Club, a community of and fund for such houses. The Dropout Club brand, which features an emoji-riddled website, evokes other content houses like the TikTok Hype House. Interestingly, there’s a hierarchy to the club, with five levels that determine funding priority. (Level 4, for example, is “Dad: you graduated, or you undropped out.”)
When Lucas explains Dropout Club, we hear the term “exstititution” for the first time — a neologism that describes institutional exit.
“The idea is to create a third space for these people, where university isn't the right thing for them right now,” Lucas says.
In what he later clarifies as a reference to community and not literally leading people in worship, Lucas describes his role in the Dropout House hierarchy as “almost like a priest.”
We visit the house on a weekday evening in early October. The other residents — all young entrepreneurs — are involved in and supportive of Lucas and Emmet’s various ventures. We want to get a sense of what they have in common with the duo, and what they don’t.
It’s an aggressively normal-looking house: navy with white trim and a well-maintained porch, nestled on a quiet, tree-lined street. We had pictured some visible evidence of the contrarian, innovative culture so trumpeted by the Dropout Club website. Actually, it’s just really nice: According to Zillow, it last sold for more than $2.5 million.
Beyond Lucas and Emmet, the house’s current tenants are Kaledora Fontana ’22, Marco Antonio Ribeiro, Mohib Jafri ’22, Shriank Kanaparti ’22, Rishank Kanaparti, Ali Mohamed, and Youssif Mohamed. Kaledora and Marco are working on their start-up, Ostium, a blockchain-based commodities exchange; Mohib and Shriank run Seed Labs and HarvardDAO — Web3-oriented venture capital start-ups.
Marco greets us at the door, peering down from a few steps up on the staircase. We toe off our shoes in the bare living room and leave them in a pile by an upright piano. Marco leads us into the kitchen, pointing out a few quirks: Instead of a kitchen table they’ve brought inside an outdoor wooden picnic bench; there are naked air mattresses in an adjoining room, on which Lucas and Emmet sleep when they’re in town.
We sit at the picnic bench-turned dining table and talk quietly as we wait for Kaledora, who — as will prove to be a trend of the Dropout House residents — is running more than half an hour late. (She texts that she’s Blue-Biking all the way from downtown Boston.)
The rest of the house slowly descends on the table. Shriank and Mohib come in together, trailed by a third person who looks a little too young to be a college drop-out. It’s Shriank’s younger brother Rishank, who graduated high school last year and is working as an engineer for his brother’s start-up while taking a gap year. He’s 17.
“Age and engineering aren’t correlated,” Shriank says fondly. “Thirty-five year-olds don’t know shit.”
Rishank sits silent and receptive for our entire conversation, which meanders between the residents’ various ventures and circles relentlessly around the ideas of risk, ownership, and building.
Mohib, Marco, and Shriank all echo, in one way or another, the belief that going to Harvard pressured them into the fields of finance, consulting, and big tech.
“There's a few institutional practices that do drive McKinsey and Goldman down our damn throats, right? They're not going to sponsor a seed startup looking for a founding engineer,” Mohib says, reflecting on career fairs where large, established tech companies like Google always had the “biggest banner.”
But Mohib pinpoints social dynamics as even more powerful than institutional behavior. “Much greater than who showed up at a career fair is like, ‘Yo, my blockmate just got an offer from Goldman.’ It's August! The school year just started and they’re set. What the hell am I doing?”
Kaledora arrives; she’s the only woman other than us. She squeezes in at the end of the table, drops off a New Yorker tote bag, and jumps into the finance-tech pipeline conversation.
“It’s like stenciled into their brain within three months,” she says. “Marco started at Harvard — 17 years old, had never heard of banking or consulting. I met him freshman fall, and within two months, he was like, ‘I want to go to Goldman.’”
In 2020, more than half of Harvard graduates went into consulting, finance, or tech, according to The Crimson’s senior survey.
This obsession with high salary, high prestige jobs is characteristic of the Harvard “mindworm,” says Kaledora. She argues that we’re all such Type A overachievers that academics aren’t enough — Harvard students create new battlefields of hierarchy, which is where final clubs come in, but also where intelligence and status indicators like an offer from Goldman feature. It’s a way to replicate status now that going to Harvard is no longer enough.
All of the Dropout House residents we talked to were once infected by this worm, at least a little bit. Kaledora worked at McKinsey, Marco at Bridgewater, and Mohib at Tesla, before they each left to found their own ventures.
Lucas and Emmet never worked for consulting firms, Wall Street, or big tech companies. But like the other Dropout House residents, they see their chosen career path diverging from the standard Harvard notion of success.
“A lot of the people within the drop out, long term leave-of-absence community definitely have a sense of pride,” Emmet says. “I’m not necessarily saying the institution is bad. I’m just saying my conviction is higher.”
It’s not even about the jobs, or the ideas; It’s about this conviction, Emmet seems to be saying. It takes high conviction to take risks, to have the confidence that you and your idea will survive. And they’re not just willing to take risks — they revel in the aesthetic of risk-taking.
Similarly, Kaledora describes how she and Marco secured funding from Soma Capital, a software-focused VC firm. “We've been throwing around the idea of starting something for a while, but we didn't have…we just had this desire to build something new that would be within crypto,” she says. “But we weren’t exactly sure.”
“We just stayed up for four days straight, basically, and just iterated through every idea we could think of, and then threw together this application with just an idea,” she says. “And then they gave us money.”
Neither Kaledora nor Marco explain what their idea was, what it is now, or what they’re trying to do; instead they emphasize the exhilarating process of idea generation, the sacrifices and “sleepless nights” they have spent as founders.
Lucas and Emmet’s idea was more fleshed out when they decided to start their venture. But they still took a leap away from Harvard — a leap somewhat enabled by the Harvard name. Or, as Shriank puts it, “The crazy thing is as a Harvard affiliate, it's not impossible to raise from venture capital, and venture capital you can think of as a loan for smart people to figure out what the hell they're going to do — to make a lot of money and do something cool.”
To be clear, they acknowledge the privilege, even within the Ivy League, of being able to take these risks: “We should also take the other side. There are people who have student loans,” Mohib says, “and people who do not have the same fortunate position to take a risk.”
And Emmet’s risk barometer is a bit different from the rest of the Dropout House.
“Generally speaking, I would categorize it as low-risk,” he says. “It appears high-risk in the context of, I don't know, compared to what most Harvard students do. But my life isn’t in danger. We’re still able to take a modest salary so we can eat and handle any basic needs that we would have as 20-somethings. It's not like we’re going to be homeless.”
But he still speaks as if life is a gamble, and he enjoys playing the odds.
“It's my life,” he says. “I'm betting on me here.”
Overall, they suggest a duality between the conformist, risk-free Harvard path — consulting to an MBA — and the contrarian and risky drop-out, start-up route. But in some ways, they’re looking back and criticizing a battle they’ve already won — especially for those who dabbled in finance or consulting first. Paradoxically, perhaps risk can more easily be taken by people who have first succeeded in conforming, and for whom taking the risk might not actually be all that risky; they always have a Harvard degree to fall back on, or for drop-outs, they always have the option to finish their degrees.
Tracey Rosen, a Social Studies lecturer who teaches “Global Capitalism and the Entrepreneurial Self,” frames this contradiction between institutional reliance and risk. She speculates that student entrepreneurs are a “negative image of the finance and consulting breed” in that they still work 80-hour weeks and are motivated in large part by money. Instead of completing their degrees and heading to Goldman Sachs, entrepreneurial students believe that the radicality and cleverness of their ideas, regardless of what those ideas are, can rise above the status quo. This replaces success by institutional metrics with a notion of inherent talent, Rosen suggests.
“There’s been a huge divorce between the concept of education — the idea that when people labor at a thing and learn from it, they get better — and the idea of being naturally gifted and smart,” says Rosen. “And [it results in] this kind of unceasing performance of smartness.”
So Rosen agrees with Kaledora’s “mindworm” criticism, but doesn’t think student founders have escaped it. Similarly, though Lucas describes the Dropout House as an escape from institutions, at times its value seems more dependent on proximity than distance.
“We can put houses there right next to Harvard, and then you get all the community from them,” he says. “So you can go to the classes, you can hang out with your friends. And you don't have to pay $60k a year.”
As we sit at their table in Somerville — a nine-minute Uber from Harvard’s campus — we can’t help but wonder how far they’ve really gone. When we leave the house, Marco is looking at a box of Barilla pasta, checking the cook time. It’s such a college kid thing to do, we think to ourselves: learning to take care of yourself, but being new to it, still following the instructions.
All of this branding and self-promotion around “exstitutions” is not just about dropping out of elite colleges — it’s part of a much bigger utopian vision facilitated by crypto and DAOs, in which DAOHQ could serve as the essential platform.
We get this vision when we meet Emmet in person for the first time, on the second floor patio of the Smith Center. He arrives a little late, wearing a black turtleneck, light wash jeans, and a brown leather belt. We ask if he’s deliberately evoking Steve Jobs. He’s not, he says, although he does cite Jobs’s book later as a major inspiration.
Emmet describes cryptocurrency as “hard money” as opposed to “fiat money,” or government-issued money not backed by a commodity like gold.
“The goal is to have this international reserve currency that's not controlled by any government. So that's exstitutional, in the sense of exiting the fiat system, going back to a digital version of the gold standard,” he explains. It’s a surprisingly historical-looking analogue for such a modern platform.
Reaching even further back, he describes the DAO as a kind of “experimental governance” akin to early American history — where Alexander Hamilton from the Dropout Club branding reappears.
“If you've watched ‘Hamilton’ the musical, they're just making this stuff up as they go,” Emmet says. “They're just debating, how should we govern ourselves?”
And his answer is: through the blockchain. “You can have this completely international, decentralized, censorship-resistant, very democratic way of organizing people and money,” he says. He invokes people living under authoritarian regimes, able to join a global, underground economy without fear of persecution under their country’s institutions.
Lucas, Emmet, and Kaledora all cite Balaji Srinivasen’s “The Network State,” published in July, as a foundational text to this democratic vision. Srinivasen, an entrepreneur, investor, and former Chief Technology Officer of Coinbase — a cryptocurrency platform that plunged this summer — advocates for a world of competitive governance through DAO-style states: highly aligned online communities that crowdfund territory and eventually gain diplomatic recognition. Publicly available, “The Network State” appears to be written with the document preparation software LaTeX, like a problem set, and lays out its future in pithy aphorisms like “Our idea is to proceed cloud first, land last.”
One of the key elements of network states, Srinivasen argues, is a recognized founder: “A state, like a company, needs a leader.”
DAOHQ could be the platform on which DAOs become network states. Emmet uses the terms “libertarian-left” and “progressive” to describe the ideological tenor of this vision: “Very much just live and let live in terms of social issues. Let people do what people want to do.”
Where do welfare and the other material functions of the nation state fit into the network state?
“Think of it like if Amazon Prime also provided housing and childcare, or something,” Emmet says.
We ran this vision of the network state by James H. Waldo, the HKS professor. “Yeah, good luck on that. I have science fiction on all sorts of things,” he says. China and most other governments are regulating, not recognizing, cryptocurrencies, he argues, so there’s little chance of DAOs receiving any kind of extraterritorial status.
Emmet does clarify that he doesn’t see Srinivasen’s vision materializing completely anytime soon. “I wouldn't bet on nation states going away,” he says. But he emphasizes that the idea of competitive governance remains “really exciting.”
“We're going to hopefully see more of that,” he says, and suggests one way forward might be a possible reorientation of American political parties, with one embracing crypto. “I'd be curious, even in the next election cycle, if any party tries to lay claim to the crypto Web-3 crowd,” he says.
Waldo remains skeptical of even a smaller political shift. “Talk to the crypto bros — and I would claim that most of them are bros,” Waldo says. “What value are they actually adding to society? I haven't heard a good answer. Very pie in the sky, handwave handwave, bubble bubble, smoke and mirrors.”
To Waldo’s “bros” claim, indeed, only 17.7 percent of venture-backed crypto and blockchain companies have a woman on their team of founders, according to a 2019 report released by Blockworks, a blockchain non-profit. On the investor side, Gemini Exchange’s 2021 State of U.S. Crypto Report revealed that women make up only 26 percent of investors in the space.
Rosen speaks of an anti-institutional, “value-creating, risk-taking hero adventurer” image of masculinity that has found new representation in young male tech entrepreneurs. The democratization of “smartness,” the idea that anyone can be an expert and it doesn’t matter how old you are or whether you went to college, is strongly tied to the male conception of “mastery” — that the world simply exists for them to conquer it, Rosen posits.
While Emmet doesn’t see entrepreneurship as inherently gendered, he acknowledges that “masculine traits like competitiveness, persistence, confidence, and risk taking are generally rewarded.” He also mentions a “Women in Web3” event DAOHQ participated in, aimed at “getting more women involved in the Web3 space as developers, community managers, founders, investors, just across the board.”
As for the makeup of DAOHQ’s own team, Lucas says: “I wish I worked on a startup where we can say, ‘Okay, we're gonna make sure 50 percent of hires are women,’ but that doesn't maximize our chances of success currently, based on the applications we're seeing.”
“Crypto is an extension of cyber-psychedelic, tech, and libertarian culture, all of which is dominated by men,” he later wrote in a text. “So it seems that the crypto logos, pathos, and kairos are generally more appealing to men. That being said, the crypto ethos itself aspires to be person-agnostic.”
Waldo synthesizes the criticisms of this abstract, libertarian ideal.
“I understand that a lot of people don't like where the power is centralized,” he says. “But most of the work on these DAOs or NFT organizations or other such things are not an attempt to democratize. They're an attempt to switch the set of people who have monopoly power from the ones that currently have it to the ones that are doing Web3 applications. And that's fine, if they want to try and do that. I understand greed.”
In sum: Lucas and Emmet see themselves and DAOHQ as an “exstitutional” step towards a digital, more free world. But this vision is weighed down by a miasma of gender, technological and economic realities.
***
All of this is to say — Emmet and Lucas chose to leave Harvard, and they stand by this decision with conviction. It is hard to chart an uncertain path. Most people don’t do it. It’s much easier to be skeptical of their worldview, and the terrain in which they stake their venture, than it is to respect them for their guts.
It’s also worth noting that almost everyone we talked to who was excited about crypto is under 30; almost everyone who was pessimistic about it is over 30. Like many youth-driven, anti-institutional movements, it’s possible the older generations are just cynical or unable to see fault in the institutions in which they are embedded.
Ironically, though, the youth might not have distanced themselves much from these institutions. The Dropout House is less than 10 minutes away from Harvard, with three Harvard alums as tenants and the Harvard door always ajar to those on leave. Many of them have finance and big tech jobs on their resumes.
And crypto — DAOHQ especially — was constantly trumpeted to us as something meant to remove barriers to entry, to improve the accessibility of economic institutions, and to reduce power concentration among the wealthy and the important. But it’s not clear that this highly technical, highly volatile, male-dominated, abstract, and elite institution-adjacent world is really open to all.
Every iteration of the internet has bred and lost a utopian vision. Led by a vanguard composed primarily of the elite, Web3 might not be any different. Web3’s material and ideological attempt to leave institutions — an attempt at “exstitution” — risks re-entrenching opacity and inequality as much as it promises transparency and egalitarianism.
We don’t know what success DAOHQ will see in the future. Lucas and Emmet are trying to raise another $3 million right now, but did not disclose their progress so far.
Outside on the second floor patio of the Smith Center, late on a Friday afternoon, we finish up a conversation with Emmet. The Owl Club blasts EDM in the background. Emmet tells us he’s heading to Toronto. He’ll be back in town soon for the Harvard-Yale football game.
He compares himself to some of his Harvard peers: people who ended up in consulting, entrepreneurs who stayed a little closer, a little longer.
“It just maybe takes them a while to get to the point where they want to escape the matrix,” he says. “I realized that much sooner.”
We ask if he thinks he’s escaped the matrix.
“I don't know if I fully evaded the matrix,” he says. “I feel like we can't fully, fully know.”
— Staff writer Talia M. Blatt can be reached at talia.blatt@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @talia_m_blatt
— Staff writer Isabel T. Mehta can be reached at isabel.mehta@thecrimson.com. 
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
More than 400 Harvard affiliates signed a petition urging top University administrators to provide more resources for LGBTQ+ graduate students by hiring one or more full-time employees dedicated to supporting students, faculty, and staff.
The petition, sent to administrators Tuesday morning, states that Harvard’s LGBTQ+ student population feels “extremely fragmented and inadequately supported by the university in its attempts to build community and in efforts to address issues and needs.”
The students’ appeal for support comes just months after a group of LGBTQ+ affiliates received homophobic emails threatening violence and a transgender Harvard Kennedy School student died in police custody in Indonesia, but Harvard graduate students have called on the University to better support LGBTQ+ affiliates for years.
The petition highlights four main issues facing LGBTQ+ affiliates at Harvard: difficulty planning university-wide social events, lack of visibility and representation, limited access to specific healthcare and mental health needs, and a scarcity of focused academic resources and research. The petition also asks the administration to revive One Queer Harvard — a university-wide social organization that dissolved following the Covid-19 pandemic — and create a center for LGBTQ+ affiliates.
Diego Garcia Blum, a fellow at the Kennedy School and co-organizer of the petition, said Harvard should identify gaps in its course offerings to provide more opportunities to study issues impacting LGBTQ+ populations.
“We had a tragedy of discrimination abroad hit our community this year,” Garcia Blum said. “Yet, there’s almost nothing — like literally zero — in research or academic offerings on international LGBTQ violence abroad and discrimination.”
“We should take responsibility as one of the world’s leading institutions to look into that,” he added.
Harvard spokesperson Jason A. Newton said the University is aware of the petition, but declined to comment any further.
Timothy P. McCarthy ’93, who was the first openly queer faculty member at the Kennedy School, has taught “Queer Nation: LGBTQ Protest, Politics, and Policy in the United States” since 2018, which is still the only course at HKS focused on LGBTQ+ issues.
McCarthy, who served on the committee that led to the creation of the Office of BGLTQ Student Life, said he “had to sign” the petition to continue his “long-standing record of supporting students.”
Jonathan Loc, a second-year HKS student who sent the petition to University administrators, said the lack of LGBTQ+ support offered by Harvard surprised him.
“Since [One Queer Harvard] is not in operation anymore, that community building across schools has been harder,” said Loc. “That combined with the lack of a center has made Harvard overall slow to act.”
“It shouldn’t really be up to students,” he added. “It should be up to this University to make sure LGBTQ students are included.”
Several leaders of Harvard’s LGBTQ+ organizations said the petition could lead to better access to resources at their respective graduate schools.
Charlotte McAdams — president of Queer Rites, the LGBTQ+ affinity group at Harvard Divinity School — said a key request of the petition is “equalizing the queer opportunities.”
“One kind of issue that I think can be present among the grad schools, and specifically in grad school leadership, is that the schools get funding in different ways for their queer organizations,” McAdams said. “Some have corporate funding; some don’t have any funding at all.”
McCarthy said the demands students made in the petition are not unreasonable.
“They’re not asking for unicorns and free tuition,” McCarthy said. “They’re asking for support so that they can thrive here — which is what should be our first priority.”
—Staff Writer Darley A. C. Boit can be reached at darley.boit@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Miles J. Herszenhorn can be reached at miles.herszenhorn@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @MHerszenhorn.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The popular Boston-area coffee chain Darwin’s Ltd. announced plans to close the store’s original Harvard Square location at the end of the month, prompting some workers to stage a protest at Cambridge City Hall on Sunday denouncing the move.
The Mount Auburn St. location is set to close its doors after 30 years this December, owners Steven and Isabel Darwin announced in an Instagram post on Oct. 26.
Darwin’s United — a union representing the chain’s employees — responded by organizing a protest at City Hall, where workers rallied on Sunday before gathering outside the Darwins’ Cambridge home.
“We have been offered no guarantees of jobs for those who want to stay, no guarantee that workers will have an income going into winter,” the union wrote in a Twitter statement. “We will not back down, we will not take this.”
Mark Spires, general manager of the Harvard Square location, said the lease for the store ends on Dec. 1.
Spires said the decision seemed sudden, adding that Steven Darwin had been planning to lease long-term equipment for the store as of a month ago.
“I think he might not have actually realized until pretty recently that he’s going to make this decision,” Spires said.
The Sunday protest included members of several Boston-area labor organizations, including Harvard’s graduate student union and the Harvard Union of Clerical and Technical Workers. Unions representing employees at other area coffee chains, including Starbucks and Pavement, also had members present.
At the rally, union members called on the Darwins to keep workers at the Harvard Square store employed if they wished to stay on and reiterated past demands for $24 per hour wages, three weeks paid time off, and zero-deductible healthcare for employees.
“We know that Steve has long been considering selling the business, but the timing really couldn’t be worse,” said Sam White, a Darwin’s United representative. “We’re telling him to come back to the bargaining table and respond to our proposals.”
A majority of workers at the four Darwin’s locations voted to unionize in September 2021 and began negotiations with management for a new contract for workers. Since then, talks have stalled, according to White. In March, workers at all four locations staged a mid-morning walkout to raise pressure on the owners.
Alexandra C. Stanton, a member of the Harvard Graduate Student Union-United Automobile Workers, said she believed the Harvard Square location’s closure is related to the union’s recent organization efforts.
“Doesn’t really seem like a coincidence to me,” Stanton said. “It’s a tactic to potentially demoralize the workers and frighten them by threatening to take their jobs away.”
Steven Darwin did not respond to a request for comment.
Spires said it was unlikely that all workers at the Harvard Square location would be laid off. Some employees have already begun to search for new jobs, he said.
“I suspect that the last two weeks are going to be severely understaffed,” Spires said.
Jordan Coleman, a member of Darwin’s United, said in a speech at City Hall that ownership needed to show more compassion toward workers.
“Tonight, we’re going to Steve’s house,” Coleman said. “I don’t begrudge him, his house, or pleasant life. It’s just the opposite: compassion demands that we fight so every worker can have the same.”
—Staff writer Kate Delval Gonzalez can be reached at kate.delvalgonzalez@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Brandon L. Kingdollar can be reached at brandon.kingdollar@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter at @newskingdollar.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After Monday’s Supreme Court hearings for the pair of anti-affirmative action lawsuits, Harvard’s Faculty of Arts and Sciences Dean Claudine Gay said she “felt encouraged” that the case for race-conscious admissions “was laid out in a really compelling way” in an interview Wednesday.
The Supreme Court heard oral arguments Monday in lawsuits challenging race-conscious admissions policies at Harvard and the University of North Carolina. The schools argue their current race-conscious processes help maintain a racially diverse student body, which they say provides educational and societal benefits.
Racial diversity among students ensures a “special alchemy” of varied life experiences and backgrounds, Gay said Wednesday, allowing the school to offer a “transformative educational experience” and diversify the pool of future world leaders.
“No matter the decision from the court, we will comply,” she said. “We will also be unwavering in our commitment to building and nurturing a diverse and vibrant campus community.”
Gay also touched on the $84.9 million surplus with which the FAS and Harvard’s School of Engineering and Applied Sciences ended fiscal year 2022. Though the school is “fiscally healthy,” as stated by FAS Dean of Administration and Finance Scott A. Jordan, Gay said her goal is to “ensure that the FAS remains resilient through all contingencies.”
“This is arriving at an opportune moment in many ways, in the sense that FAS-wide, we’re undertaking this strategic planning process,” Gay said Wednesday. “We will have the opportunity to bring a level of intentionality and thoughtfulness to how we draw on our fiscal strength and our resources to ensure academic excellence for this moment and for decades to come.”
Following up on a question from the previous faculty meeting, Gay shared data on the availability of faculty support by division, noting that the Arts and Humanities division is “woefully understaffed.”
The Arts and Humanities division has three “faculty assistant-like” positions, while Sciences and Social Sciences have 83 and 33, respectively, Gay said Tuesday.
“I believe that all faculty should have access to some baseline level of support that is responsive, that is effective and professional,” she said in an interview Wednesday.
Gay said she views this lack of support as an “urgent priority” and has charged Jordan to work with the Arts and Humanities divisional office to develop a solution to this issue.
“I hope that we will be able to put something in place reasonably soon so that, again, faculty can begin to get the kind of support that they need to be effective both as scholars and as teachers,” she said.
The Crimson interviews FAS Dean Claudine Gay once per month during the academic year. Click here to submit a question for consideration in our next interview.
—Staff writer Ariel H. Kim can be reached at ariel.kim@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @ArielH_Kim.
—Staff writer Meimei Xu can be reached at meimei.xu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @MeimeiXu7.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
University President Lawrence S. Bacow sits at the head of Harvard’s sprawling administration, but he has stepped back from one key initiative: the search for his successor.
In an interview Wednesday, Bacow — who is not part of the 15-member presidential search committee — said he doesn’t know where the team is in its process.
“It’s traditional when universities search for new presidents that the incumbent president is involved only peripherally,” he said.
Bacow said he has only met with the presidential search committee and the faculty group that advises it to discuss his perspective on the job.
“I have met with the search committee not to talk about candidates, but just to talk about what are the challenges that the next president is likely to face,” he said.
Bacow added he is planning to meet with the student advisory committee in the coming days.
In a 2017 interview with The Crimson, Bacow’s predecessor, Drew G. Faust, also said she would largely stay out of the search process besides answering questions about the Harvard presidency.
The 29th president said one of the key challenges facing his successor will be handling the Supreme Court’s forthcoming ruling on affirmative action. Bacow declined to speculate about how justices will rule in the case, but during oral arguments on Monday, the court's conservative majority appeared ready to strike down race-conscious college admissions, a move that would overturn decades of precedent and reshape admissions processes across the nation.
Bacow added that he hopes the next president continues to drive forward the Salata Institute for Climate and Sustainability, the Harvard Quantum Initiative, and the Kemper Institute for the Study of Natural and Artificial Intelligence.
But he said his advice to incoming presidents is to anticipate unforeseen challenges.
“Look what happened to me,” Bacow said, citing his navigation of the Covid-19 pandemic and his ascent to the Tufts presidency 10 days before the Sept. 11 attacks.
Some prominent Harvard donors also say the University’s next president will be responsible for launching a new University-wide Capital Campaign — likely a multibillion-dollar ordeal. While Bacow said there will be a campaign in the future, he did not specify the timeline.
“There’ll be one,” Bacow said. “I doubt that it’s going to be in year one or two — but I don’t know if that means it’s going to be three, four, or five.”
With his remaining year, Bacow said he has been speaking with faculty and donors “about how this University can contribute to the future of democracy.”
“My own view of this — and my successor will have to make their own decisions — is that Harvard should be tackling all the major challenges that face society,” he said. “There may be others that emerge. If you asked me when I started, I wouldn’t put the future of democracy on that list, but I would now.”
Asked about his plans for the future, Bacow gestured toward a framed photograph of his grandchildren by his armchair.
“At the time I took this job, only one of these grandchildren was born — this guy,” he said, pointing at his oldest grandson. “I haven’t been much of a presence in their lives, just given the intensity of this job. So I’m looking forward to that.”
Shortly after their departures from Massachusetts Hall, previous Harvard presidents have joined the boards of prominent corporations and foundations. Faust joined the Goldman Sachs board just days after her departure from Harvard’s top job.
Though Bacow said he could “wind up on a board or two,” he plans to enjoy “unscheduled time” after June 2023.
“At this point, I’m not looking for a full-time job,” he said. “I’ve run enough things in my life.”
—Staff writer Cara J. Chang can be reached at cara.chang@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @CaraChang20.
—Staff writer Isabella B. Cho can be reached at isabella.cho@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @izbcho.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard, on the apparent edge of Supreme Court defeat, won’t be getting any help on its legal fees.
A federal judge ruled on Wednesday that Harvard’s insurer should not be responsible for paying the University’s legal fees in the high-profile anti-affirmative action lawsuit against the school heard by Supreme Court on Monday.
Harvard sued its insurance firm, the Zurich American Insurance Company, in September 2021, arguing that the firm’s refusal to cover its legal fees violated a contract between the two sides.
But on Wednesday, Judge Allison D. Burroughs sided with the insurance firm, rejecting Harvard’s argument that it did not have to notify the company of its widely-covered Students For Fair Admissions lawsuit. The ruling will force the school to pay the fees it incurred over eight years of litigation in the case.
In 2014, Harvard bought a pair of insurance policies: one with the American International Group which covered its first $25 million in legal fees and a second excess policy with Zurich to cover additional costs of up to $15 million.
Zurich argued in legal filings that its policy would only kick in if Harvard notified the firm within 90 days of the first policy reaching its cap. But the University failed to provide notice until May 2017 — 17 months after its deadline.
Harvard conceded in filings that it did not give official notice to Zurich until May 2017, but lawyers for the school argued that because its litigation with SFFA was so widely covered, the firm must have been aware the policy would kick in — and, in turn, should be made to pay.
Burroughs, who in 2020 ruled in favor of Harvard after a three-week district court trial in the SFFA case, turned away the school’s arguments in the Zurich case on Wednesday.
In a four-page ruling, she wrote that “it is undisputed that Harvard first gave notice to Zurich of the relevant claim on May 23, 2017, well past the deadline.”
“Massachusetts law is clear that (1) the unambiguous terms of an insurance policy must be strictly enforced and (2) an insured’s failure to comply with the notice provision of a claims-made policy bars coverage,” Burroughs wrote.
Rejecting Harvard’s central argument that Zurich should cover the University’s legal fees since it knew about SFFA’s litigation, Burroughs wrote that “an insurer’s actual or constructive knowledge of a claim” is not “sufficient notice to trigger coverage obligations under such a policy.”
“It is thus clear that Zurich’s lack of prejudice, or constructive, or even actual knowledge would not change Harvard’s obligation to provide notice in full compliance with the terms of the Policy,” she wrote.
Spokespeople for Zurich and Harvard declined to comment on the decision.
—Staff writer Rahem D. Hamid can be reached at rahem.hamid@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Nia L. Orakwue can be reached at nia.orakwue@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Private sector professionals gave a series of presentations at the intersection of national security and artificial intelligence during a virtual seminar held by the Harvard Kennedy School’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs on Tuesday.
The seminar was led by Belfer Fellow Kristin Wood and facilitated by Intelligence Project Manager Maria Robson-Morrow. They were joined by company executives who discussed the privatization of intelligence collection — an industry that has historically been controlled by government agencies but now includes corporations specializing in user analytics.
Several presenters highlighted the potential for data analytics to reveal insights into international security issues.
Varun Vira, chief operating officer at the Center for Advanced Defense Studies, said publicly available information can be “powerful” for detecting illegal online activity.
“If your challenge — which nearly every one does — intersects with the global economy in some way or intersects with those licit systems in some way, there is likely some form of AI solution to be exposing, monitoring, and ultimately disrupting that activity,” he said.
Samuel Curet, the chief operating officer of the company Zero Trafficking, explained how analyzing human trafficking patterns can reveal information about larger threats.
“The criminal network is the apparatus, the infrastructure, the people — and criminal lines of business is what they use that apparatus for,” Curet said of human trafficking organizations. “If you can trace back to the criminal network, then you can use the network that you found against a whole number of different targets.”
Hassan Salamony, co-founder of the data analytics company 3AI, said analyzing the financial data of companies in a given region can reveal “very interesting and impactful insights of what’s happening at the nation-state level.”
“This has led us to derive some very, very interesting findings in different regions around the world, particularly areas at the moment which are under very close consideration or impacted by a variety of different things, including war, sanctions, and different types of activities,” he said.
While many of the event’s speakers discussed practical implications of data analytics, Eric Sapp, founder of data analytics and social impact firm Public Democracy, also emphasized the importance of approaching human behavioral data from both an algorithmic and “empathy-based” perspective.
“This is really the key,” he said. “You have to move past the numbers and understand: behind each of these numbers is a person.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
It’s officially November, folks, so say goodbye to Halloween and hello to Thanksgiving! As the seasons change from one to another, so do we. Motivation dwindles, fashion becomes weather oriented, and our cozy beds start to look a lot more enticing during the day. I know, it’s an exhausting time, which is why we’ve rounded up a list of what’s in and out during the last stretch of this seemingly endless semester. Enjoy!
The cobwebs in the corner of your room — No longer acceptable, Halloween is done
Midterm Exams — Give it a rest, we’re past the time for those
Kanye West — I feel like we can all agree on this one
Not dressing for the weather — Put the salmon shorts away, buddy, it’s time
Getting to class on time — Simply will not be happening this month
Gened readings — unoriginal, long, boring. we can do better
Frat flu — The cough has finally stopped, and it better stay away this time
Candy corn — The only acceptable time to eat these is during October, okay
Not carrying an umbrella when it rains — Don’t be that person who thinks it’s cool to get soaked walking to class
Adhering to my attempted budget plan for the semester — not that I ever did
Christmas/holiday music — I will take no hate on this
Midterm Elections — Time to hot girl vote
Hot totties — cozy and sophisticated
Kicking Yale’s ass — Who’s ready for The Game?!
Being fashionably late to everything — Or just plain late, that’s cool too
Casual naps — We’re all tired, okay?
Spending way too much on food to “treat myself” — it’s self-care, it doesn’t count
Taylor Swift — We’re ALL meeting at midnight
Movie nights with the squad — time to recuperate after Halloweekend
Starbucks’ holiday cups — Honestly, they just make me irrationally happy
The recognition that not all of my work will be getting done — What can ya do?
New Month, New You! Carpe diem, my dears, and take this list (only semi) seriously as you take on this November.
