News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Dialectics (di-uh-lektiks). Noun.
The first time I saw this word, nestled under week three of the syllabus for one of my courses last semester, I was confused — a state I've frequently found myself in during my first year at Harvard College. According to Google, dialectics is defined as “the art of investigating or discussing the truth of opinions,” with a secondary definition being the “inquiry into metaphysical contradictions and their solutions.”
Two vastly different entities that are inextricably linked in constant conflict, but ultimately coexist to form a single truth. The paradoxical nature of the term immediately captured my attention. For days, despite my best efforts, my mind inevitably wandered back to the concept of dialectics. It felt incredibly close to home.
In many ways, my mere existence as Black woman at Harvard is a constant game of dialectics.
As an ambitious high schooler, Harvard was a thing of fairy tales. Its elusive prestige filled my mind with visions of old white men in suits huddled around dark rooms and smoking cigars as they plotted the future of civilization. Meanwhile, I was sitting on the living room floor and bumping SZA as my sister carefully unraveled my braids. Harvard seemed unlike anything that could possibly exist in the same universe as mine.
Then, in December of 2020, I was accepted — and my mind refused to comprehend it. For years, I’d placed this institution on an unattainable pedestal from which it looked down on almost everything else, myself included. I felt unworthy of my place, unsure of how I could possibly fit in with the Ivy League culture that was soon to surround me.
Nevertheless, August came around and I labored through the grueling course registration process. Determined to embrace the spirit of exploration for my first year, I’d even decided as a die-hard humanities student to take a science course — an intriguing blend of primatology and linguistics. Every Monday and Wednesday at 3 p.m., I took a rickety vintage elevator up to the fifth floor of the Peabody Museum of Archeology and Ethnology and had fun discussions about whether monkeys could talk.
But one day, while mindlessly browsing through The Crimson’s website, I stumbled upon an article from earlier in the year about the discovery of possible remains of enslaved people on campus — and the story’s cover photo made my stomach drop. Staring unabashedly back at me from my laptop screen was the very same building I scanned into twice a week. The red brick no longer seemed rustically charming, but stained with the blood of my ancestors. Never again could I enjoy my novel vintage elevator rides without the eerie curiosity looming over me that somewhere along the way, I was passing the displaced remains of my ancestors — subjugated in life, and still not guaranteed peace and rest in death.
Moments like these serve as a constant reminder of my standing as an alien to this planet of unequivocal whiteness. I am a descendant of slaves taking a class in the building of a historically white institution that houses the possible remains of 15 individuals of African descent who were likely alive during American slavery.
My college experience will perpetually be shaped by these terrors of the past, as well as the need to grapple with my own complicity in the present. As a generationally African American woman, my familial history has always been a giant question mark. Centuries ago, my ancestors were ripped from their homelands and separated around the country during chattel slavery; today, I am forced to reckon with the gaping hole that this has left in my soul. Even so, I exist at a university that can readily access its own history — yet chooses not to prioritize its accurate retelling and reconciliation. Or the history of the people that suffered at its expense.
Parallel narratives, trapped in neverending conflict on opposite ends of a single orbit. A dialectic masterpiece, and my current nightmarish reality.
Each of these two narratives at Harvard — Black womanhood and white supremacy — must occur in tandem with one another. In order to capture the full truth of this University, we must grapple with the fact that both whiteness and patriarchy are violently and inextricably linked with its history. Harvard must realize that the knowledge of one's history is a sacred, often underappreciated privilege that must be wielded with appropriate reverence.
Therefore, to be a Black woman at Harvard is to exist as a walking paradox: A living, breathing revolution. The dialectics of my existence — and that of every other Black woman at this institution — means forming a vibrant community of love and resilience amidst the generations of hatred stacked against us, and boldly demanding the uplifting of our truth within a veritas that was never intended to include us in the first place.
Mariah M. Norman ‘25 lives in Thayer Hall.
This piece is a part of a focus on Black authors and experiences for Black History Month.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
“My name is Junie B. Jones. The B stands for Beatrice. Except I don’t like Beatrice. I just like B and that’s all.” Is there any opener that captures Junie B. Jones’s spirit better than her own iconic introduction? She may be five years old, in kindergarten, and originally set in 1992, but her personality transcends these barriers. Beyond the matter-of-fact use of her middle initial, her stories are most notable for her technically “incorrect” way of speaking, as she peppers her sentences liberally with words such as “runned” and “bestest.” Her creator, Barbara Park, has often been criticized for this, with some suggesting that this may teach children to speak incorrectly. To me, the way Junie B. Jones expresses herself is not only unharmful, but perhaps can teach even us adults the greatest lessons of all.
In “Junie B. Jones and her Big Fat Mouth,” she continues describing her world in her infamously blunt way, saying “I go to kindergarten. My room is named Room Nine. There are lots of rules in that place.” Clearly, she is aware of what’s going on. The adults in “that place” and her life as a whole frequently correct her grammar and even look down upon the way she refers to her classroom as being “named.” However, she never allows adults to crush her spirit, determinedly referring to her teacher as “Mrs. and that’s all,” as if she has no time for full names or other expectations for speech. She refuses to allow her world to be constrained, resisting the often frivolous expectations of adults in a daring manner even other adults may not have.
Junie B. defines certain terms for us as well. “Punishment is the school word for sitting at a big table all by yourself,” she notes after she receives it for speaking out of turn, revealing how she may not understand the reasoning behind the forced isolation. The adults around her frequently fail to explain what makes her behavior bad, leading her to believe that punishment is sitting alone for the sake of it. Similarly, she explains that “grounded, young lady” is when she has to “stay on her own ground,” but she cheekily reminds us, “plus also I can go on the rug.” Most egregiously, she even notes the rote memorization and recitation of the Pledge of Allegiance in schools, complaining that she doesn’t “know what that dumb story is even talking about.” She must obediently offer allegiance to her country without understanding a word of it.
Her humorous witticisms explain how she sees the reprimands she faces, but also point out a trend in the way children are expected to behave—according to the “rules”—while being left in the dark about the reasoning behind such expectations.
Junie B. is intentionally characterized by her misbehavior, and we soak it in like a guilty pleasure. When I mention Junie B. Jones to others, without fail, they adopt a wistful expression that isn’t inspired by mentions of other childhood classics. The series is targeted at readers in grades one through three, readers who are older than Junie B. herself already. The initial draw for these readers is a nostalgia for being able to get away with her behavior. Even first graders think of themselves as much older and more in touch with the world compared to kindergartners. They have begun to learn which aspects of their personality and natural instincts they must stifle to fit into the expectations set for them at school.
Above all, Junie B. is repeatedly told to act like a lady and not to question the rules she finds unfair. When she dresses up as the school janitor for career day, she is laughed at by her parents and classmates alike because her interests deviate from the norm. The very concept of career day and children being urged to center their lives on work from a young age is problematic on its own, discouraging goals in life outside of work. While the other children speak of being a “rich artist” or even a CEO, Junie B. turns her focus away from money and towards what genuinely interests her about janitors: the way they help the school.
In class, “Mrs.” frequently admonishes Junie B. to control herself better, reminding her that “we’ve talked about this before” at every turn. The young readers experiencing Junie B.’s story for the first time may smirk at how little she understands about how to behave, as they have learned so much more about the arbitrary expectations set for them.
It doesn’t have to be that way. We don’t have to envy Junie B. because she reminds us of a simpler age of life, when we too could be completely true to ourselves and challenge the often nonsense rules adults expect us to obey. We can learn from her instead, and encourage children and adults alike to be deliberate in everything we do and speak our minds. In her 17th book, she proudly notes that she has improved her grammar and visits the principal’s office less frequently compared to the earliest books. These improvements can hardly be criticized, but in turn, she loses some of her spirit. Perhaps the true issue lies in what kinds of rules we have in “that place.”
Nour L. Khachemoune ‘22-‘23 is a joint concentrator in Chemistry and Anthropology in Dunster House. Her column “Nostalgia: What’s it Hiding?” appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Earlier this month, 38 Harvard faculty signed an open letter defending John L. Comaroff, a colleague accused of serial sexual harassment. Their letter, they say, was motivated by procedural concerns: questions about the norms of faculty behavior and the institutional process that led to sanctions against Comaroff.
The folly of publishing that letter has become obvious, but a deeper question remains: What should they have done instead? If faculty have concerns about the Title IX process, how can they possibly engage productively when the details of any given Title IX proceeding are confidential?
The 38 signers ran headlong into this problem. There were firm limits on how full a view of the situation they could have gained. This lack of factual grounding doesn’t just help form misguided opinions. It means that the bulk of public dialogue on Title IX issues at Harvard is constrained by fighting over the particulars of individual cases.
Debate centers on dates, places, and names, the offenses alleged and the appropriate punishment for the accused party. These are all important details to get right, but a public forum will never be up to that task so long as it is constrained by confidentiality.
The solution is for the University community to talk about sexual harassment regularly, not just in moments of crisis. By debating the form of proceedings in the abstract, we can make progress unconstrained by uncertainty on the details of a particular case. Just as important, we can make that progress without running roughshod over the real people involved in any particular case.
The open letter signatories seem belatedly to have recognized the harm their letter caused to Comaroff’s accusers and to future victims who may think twice before coming forward. Thirty-five of the 38 retracted their signatures after the filing of a lawsuit detailing the complainants’ allegations, suggesting two possibilities. Perhaps each of these extraordinarily prominent Harvard professors, crafting a statement with self-evidently high stakes, was exceedingly careless in assessing the limitations of the information available to them from which to draw conclusions. Or perhaps some haven’t truly changed their minds but have merely backed down in fear of public backlash.
Either cause — carelessness or cowardice — erodes students’ confidence in their professors. Rebuilding that trust will not be easy, and it reinforces the need for a better way of discussing the issue of sexual harassment on campus.
Luckily, there is one. All we have to do is break out of the crisis-reaction framing that has dominated campus discourse for too long.
We must debate the details of just and equitable arbitration before the next allegations, not only in the throes of a particular incident. We must discuss the boundaries of permissible faculty behavior before norms are violated, not only in the depths of Title IX-imposed confidentiality.
We must be proactive, not reactive.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
All it takes is enough courage (liquid or otherwise), and you too can be the lead singer of a raging rock band. At least, that was the case on Friday at Cambridge’s own Middle East Club in Central Square. Just down the stairs off Brookline Street, beyond the crowd of Uber arrivals and doe-eyed smokers, a determined group of ticketed patrons waited in line to add their names to the lineup. With a 75-song setlist of the 2000s’ best punk hits, this was not your mother’s karaoke night.
This is Emo Night Karaoke, the traveling concert that supplies live instrumentals for a “total nightlife experience” in cities throughout the East Coast. The core concept is one shared by karaoke bars everywhere: for each song, a new vocalist is pulled from the crowd and given three minutes of fame on stage. But somewhere between the professional musicians and the 450-person audience, Boston’s ENK felt far more like a collaborative tribute concert than another session of sitting through every millennial’s rendition of “Mr. Brightside” by The Killers.
For the uninitiated, emo rock is something of a living artifact of the 1980s. The genre is often traced back to music’s Revolution Summer in Washington, D.C. In this heat of 1985, the band Rites Of Spring deviated from the aggressive themes that were central to the hardcore punk scene. They left behind the political messaging of punk lyrics to get into the personal, creating music as rich in feeling as it was in sound. It was all about love and loss, heartbreak and angst.
As other groups followed suit, the name “emo” emerged to describe the phenomenon. It’s thought to come from the longhand “emocore,” a marriage of emotional and hardcore, to differentiate the subgenre from mainstream rock. But this idea of emocore wasn’t loved by all. In Rites of Spring producer Ian Mackaye’s own words, emocore was “the stupidest fucking thing I’ve heard in my entire life.” From there began a long history of mystery and scorn around the emo name.
But ENK doesn’t seem to have any stake in the debate of what is or isn’t emo. In fact, their setlist is far more interested in tracks that people want to sing than the limits of any genre.
The karaoke project began in 2018 when drummer John J. Damiano called up old bandmate and guitarist Chris D. Pennings. The two were brainstorming the next steps for Damiano’s pop-punk tribute band, “Tickle Me Emo,” trying to figure out where he could find a new lead singer.
It was Pennings who first imagined the unconventional solution. He had just come off a family cruise, the highlight of which was performing a blink-182 song for the ship’s karaoke night. To emulate that rush, Pennings and Damiano thought that the audience itself could be the lead singer for their band. Thus, ENK was born.
It took a few months for Pennings and Damiano to figure out how to pull it off — they needed a venue, a sign-up system, and a way to display lyrics to the singer. Despite each logistical challenge, by 2019 it became clear that the ENK project might just stick.
Once you enter the sea of Truly and Bud Light cans in the basement of The Middle East, the appeal of ENK becomes clear. Drawn from the 2000s hits of My Chemical Romance, Paramore, and blink-182, the ENK setlist perfectly reflects what its mesh-clad patrons want. As soon as each song was announced, screams of excitement interrupted the nondescript pop that played between acts.
The whole night reflected the nostalgic intensity of emo rock, from the neon glow off of the old black band tees to the impassioned cries of drunken millennials.
In the hangover after the Cambridge show, the ENK band packed up their gear to head down to Philadelphia for another sold-out crowd. Come Monday, the guys will return to their professional jobs for a week of work. They’ll rest and rinse out the angst of the past weekend’s show before repeating the cycle all over again on Friday.
— Magazine writer Francesca J. Barr can be reached at francesca.barr@thecrimson.com
Sections
None of my plants survive me. This is unequivocally my fault.
Some of my victims: a mini cactus on the cusp of flowering, purchased at the Brattle Square Florist freshman fall; my friends’ succulents and bamboo shoots I took home later that spring when we all got kicked out; the orchid I received on my twentieth birthday; the Italian basil I grew aspirationally for a cooking habit that never stuck; the sprawling pothos I acquired at the beginning of this year.
Whenever I have plants, I oscillate between lethal extremes: I water them overzealously or not at all, on a schedule dictated more by my mood than their desiccation. I put them in the sun and they wilt. I leave my blinds closed and they blanch. This past winter break, I forgot my dorm room plants entirely and found them shriveled and brown in the spring.
The only plants I’ve ever managed to care for were the vegetables in a tiny garden I tended to while living in a shared apartment. When a handful of tomatoes grew ripe, I gave them to my roommates. When the bell pepper finally fruited, I couldn’t bear to see it eaten. It was my perfect thing: glossy, red, smooth. I watched it rot on my counter.
***
Plenty of people kill their plants, but I shouldn’t be one of them. Plants motivate much of my art and writing; I’m taking a plant biology course and researching forests for my thesis. There’s an embarrassing dissonance between how much I care about plants and how little I manage to take care of them.
During my summer of raising vegetables, I had a day job as a research assistant for an environmental nonprofit. We were aiding in the redesign of Belizean fishing policy, balancing ecosystem health and sustainability with the needs of fishing communities. I loved my team and did my job well. When I finished work for the day, I nurtured my garden. What I was doing seemed meaningful and good.
I was standing in that garden in July, plastic watering can in hand, when I tasted ash. A strange film clung to the sky, coloring it a gray lilac. Smoke from forest fires in California had billowed all the way to Massachusetts, creating a thick, poisonous haze.
The smoke, and the despair that settled with it, permeated my other summer research: studying California wildfires. I was making biomass calculations to assess the effect of wildfires on forest ecosystems – determining how much of the forest was left, essentially. I kept troubleshooting my code because the biomass numbers seemed too small. It turned out that the fires were simply that devastating.
There is a great irony in computational climate research: the work itself is incendiary. Computing is expected to account for a fifth of all carbon emissions in the next ten years; in other words, the tools needed to understand, quantify, and mitigate climate change are also contributing to it. On its own, the power I was using to run my code was probably negligible. But it still rendered me a conspirator.
It didn’t help that I was doing damage quantification, investigating the minutiae of apocalypse. I don’t mean to diminish the importance of research that doesn’t center solutions: We need to know what has been lost. But it’s a form of research that most acutely feeds a sense of hopelessness. Why do I need to crunch the numbers when I can smell the smoke — when my dreams are choked with purple clouds? Why am I trying to save the forest when I can’t even take care of my succulents?
I watered my lab’s dragon plant religiously that summer, but it browned and shed leaves. The mulberry tree in my backyard never bore fruit.
***
When I think about this — the plants, the fires, the work without hope — the person who comes to mind is my mother. Her environmental anxieties traveled umbilically to me. We both read the same science articles, which are always titled X SPECIES OFFICIALLY EXTINCT or GLOBAL WARMING TO HAPPEN SOONER THAN LAST TIME WE SAID THIS. I know they keep her up at night.
But unlike me, she is constant, patient, even reverent in her plant mothering. I picture her dotting blossoms on our lime tree with pollen, coaxing forth a dozen fat limes; plucking sick leaves one by one from the hibiscus; lining her pockets with cucumbers and zucchini after hours bent over a raised garden bed. She has even resuscitated some of the plants I left withered and crumbling.
She is also resolute in her climate advocacy. For her, hopelessness is not an excuse; it’s a propulsive force – to keep pushing institutions, boycotting, and writing. Even when trying feels futile or even counterproductive, it’s an imperative. And it matters to her at every scale, from the plant pots beside her desk to the networks of forests she petitions to protect.
I understand, now, how she does this. She has detached optimism from her work — a lesson I am still learning. It’s not a question of whether I believe the research I do will produce knowledge that offsets the fuel it consumes. It’s that the research is necessary regardless. Or, to draw from the Talmud: “You are not obligated to complete the work, but neither are you free to desist from it.”
There’s one plant on my shelf that I want to see through the spring. An aloe vera: the healing plant. Despite months of dereliction, its leaves are jade and firm. This summer, as I research forests under the hot California sun, I will treat my sunburns with its gel and my work with my mother’s ardor: gifts from flesh to flesh.
— Magazine writer Talia M. Blatt can be reached at talia.blatt@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @talia_m_blatt.
Sections
Harvard freshman John M. Boesen ’25 is planning to concentrate in Applied Math, but this summer, he will embark on a trip to Oxford University to read St. Augustine, Thomas Aquinas, Dante, and Robespierre and discuss love, hate, and the philosophy of living life to its fullest with 25 other undergraduates.
Boesen, who heard about the Oxford Vivarium through a friend who had previously participated, saw the program as a chance to read “the great books” that his math classes don’t cover.
“The way I see it, the humanities are the foundation,” he says. “You can’t have wisdom without the humanities.”
The Vivarium is part of the broader Human Flourishing Program at Harvard’s Institute for Quantitative Social Science. Established in 2016 by Tyler J. VanderWeele, the program aims to “study and promote human flourishing, and to develop systematic approaches to the synthesis of knowledge across disciplines.”
Students selected as Human Flourishing Fellows will participate in biweekly group discussions this spring before heading off to Oxford.
Associate Director Flynn J. Cratty says the idea of human flourishing has shown up in a variety of cultures and beliefs, from the Greek philosophy of eudaimonia, or the condition of living well, to the Hebrew shalom, a word which can mean harmony or completeness.
“We talk about flourishing as a state in which every aspect of your life is going well,” Cratty says. “That isn’t something any of us ever experienced perfectly in the here and now, but it’s not just that your physical or mental health is good, but also that you’re building character, that you have deep and satisfying relationships, a sense of purpose in life.”
Cratty said the program seeks to answer questions such as “What [does] a good life look like? What kind of relationships should we be cultivating? What does it look like to promote virtue or seek truth?”
The theme of this year’s program is “Love and Hate.” Students are split into two different groups, one of which will focus on “Curiosity: The Love and Lust for Knowledge,” and the other on “Progress and Decline.”
“The heart of our work with students is founded on the idea that for all of its intellectual dynamism — Harvard’s a very exciting place to be — Harvard’s not a very good place for stopping and reflecting about questions of first importance,” says Cratty. The program hopes to provide students that space to slow down and reflect through thought-provoking readings and mentorship.
It was precisely the program’s introspective departure from the fast pace of Harvard life that appealed to Henry N. Haimo ’24, a newly-selected Human Flourishing Fellow. Haimo sees human flourishing as a life with “the whole circle colored in,” pursuing a set of values and “taking advantage of everything that life has to offer.”
“I was very pleased to see that there was a different perspective on what your college education could be about,” he says. “Education is also about personal development, and what we should be learning in our prime years is also how to live fulfilling lives.”
Though the program’s first vivarium last year was held in Colorado, this year’s intellectual retreat will shift to Oxford. The new choice in location was partially a practical one, according to Cratty, since Oxford’s colleges serve as conference centers out of term, but Cratty says the directors also chose it because Harvard students “actually got excited” about going there.
Jennifer Y. Gao ’24, who also participated in the vivarium last year, is excited for the chance to explore Oxford.
“It just strikes me as somewhere that is very intellectual,” she says. “I am excited to be able to see Oxford and be able to live in the dorms. I think this will be a really cool experience.”
With support from alumni donors, the vivarium will cover the cost of airfare, food, and housing for participants. Gao expressed her appreciation for the diverse group of students that this “no barriers” vivarium is able to attract.
“Traveling internationally is very expensive, having to deal with all of these things like food, transportation — it’s really nice that we don’t really have to worry about that while we’re there,” she says. “We can just really focus on learning and discussing and interacting with each other.”
Haimo hopes that the group will serve as examples for how to incorporate introspection and benevolence into everyday Harvard life.
“If we can bring [this] into our social interactions, I think it raises the level of everyday discussion,” he says. “How can you both personally contribute to the world and how can you do that in a happy way?”
— Magazine writer Claire Yuan can be reached at claire.yuan@thecrimson.com
Sections
Many students consider 9 a.m. classes too early. But John S. Martin, longtime Harvard University Dining Services worker, wakes up at 4 a.m, drives from Tewksbury, Mass., to Annenberg — Harvard’s freshman dining hall — and starts work at 6 a.m.
Despite his early mornings, freshmen say Martin — better known as “John from Annenberg” — always has a smile for groggy students as he swipes their IDs. He remembers their names, befriends them, asks them how they are doing, jokes with them, talks sports, and makes a bustling dining hall more comfortable. He’s become something of a fixture in ’Berg.
Joseph A. Fahn ’25 says that on days he feels too tired to get breakfast, Martin is “a friendly face.”
“John [creates] a really welcoming environment, especially to freshmen going into their first dining hall,” Fahn says.
After 12 years at Annenberg, however, Martin has now moved to Dunster House to work in General Service.
First-year students were saddened to hear about Martin’s departure. “[He’s] a piece of Annenberg that’s not there anymore,” Gavin M. Lindsey ’25 says.
For Martin, this is a bittersweet moment. Though he says he “would love to stay at Annenberg,” his hours at the Dunster dining hall are more conducive to work-life balance. At Annenberg, Martin worked on Sundays and Mondays from 6 a.m. to 3 p.m. and Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and Thursdays from 11:30 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. At Dunster, he now works Monday through Friday from 6 a.m. to 3 p.m.
“Now, as my kids are getting older, it’s tough because I feel like I’m missing out on their activities, being home with my wife, and having dinner every night,” Martin says. “So I just applied for the job, and now it’s great because [I have] more family time.”
Martin lives with his wife Erin,11-year-old daughter Kayleigh, and nine-year-old son Jack. Jack swims and bowls in a sports program. His children also play basketball together in a Buddy Basketball program, where Kayleigh is a volunteer and helps Jack and other children play.
Martin says he’s now more “available” as a husband and a parent and doesn’t have to cram all his family time in his day off because of this schedule change.
“It would really eat me away when I had to be working at Annenberg till 8:30 at night,” he says. “I come home and everybody’s sleeping. It wasn’t a good feeling after doing it for so long.”
Now that Martin has moved to Dunster, he has more time on the weekends to spend with his children. He is an assistant basketball coach for his daughter Kayleigh’s basketball team, and he can now attend every game. “I’m really excited about that,” Martin says.
Martin considers his children whenever he interacts with students. “I try to think, ‘How would you want your kids to be treated?’” he says. “But I also enjoy it. I don’t just do it because this is my job. I’m doing it because I truly enjoy getting to meet you and your fellow classmates.”
Although freshmen will miss Martin, his good spirits and genuine interest in creating personal connections with students will be remembered for years to come.
Vincent D. Kafer ’25 hopes to see Martin more often next year. “Seeing him go to Dunster makes me hope that I get put in Dunster on housing day,” he says.
Sections
In a high-definition video module, a counselor named Donna walks down a street while describing methods of approaching patients who are experiencing mental health issues.
“[It] is a very sensitive issue, so it’s natural to feel a little uncomfortable asking about this,” she says. She reminds me that “it can save lives when we intervene or provide some guidance to people in need.” Calming music plays in the background and text pops up on the screen as Donna elaborates on how to speak in a warm tone. She provides examples of indirect questions like “How are things at home?” and “What is your relationship with your partner like?”
In just a few videos, Donna has taught me how to demonstrate acceptance, listen effectively, identify signs of suicide, and put patients in contact with the right resources. This is Module 6 of EMPOWER, a curriculum developed by the Mental Health for All Lab at Harvard Medical School.
The curriculum, which consists of a series of videos accompanied by short quizzes, is aimed at community health workers but is designed to give anyone working in areas without sufficient mental health resources the skills to identify and alleviate mental health issues in their community. EMPOWER has distilled psychological interventions into bite-sized pieces of digitized lessons that are simple to learn.
“This is not about a replacement or alternative to specialized care, it’s about expanding the footprint of the mental health care system deep into the community,” says founder Vikram H. Patel, a professor in the Department of Global Health and Social Medicine at HMS.
Patel speaks quickly, less interested in explaining the details of the project than tracing its larger mission; he is someone who is not troubled by the minutiae that can overwhelm a big undertaking, but rather looks ahead to what is possible.
Trained as a clinical psychiatrist, Patel first identified a vast shortage of mental health clinicians while doing research in Zimbabwe.
“I discovered that everything I had ever learned was impossible to apply because there were no mental health professionals,” he says. “That set me on the journey to actually interrogate how one could engage and deliver mental health care in these extremely different contexts.”
Compared to traditional education, EMPOWER serves the cake without the icing, giving healthcare workers the skills to start making a difference quickly.
“The old-fashioned model is how we teach you guys at Harvard: come and spend a whole lot of time in-person, with the expert, spend huge amounts of money,” Patel says. “This is simply not how community health worker training can go forward.”
EMPOWER’s strength is its simplicity — it is designed to be accessible to anyone from frontline workers to nurses to ordinary people. The team has finished implementing trials in Texas and India, and it plans to incorporate feedback, add translations, create culture-specific scenarios, and design a competency assessment.
Initial findings from the trials show that community health care workers are already benefiting from the program. “People come to them, and people trust them,” says Juliana L. Restivo, a coordinator at the Mental Health for All Lab. “By being trained with this, they’re actually equipped to know how to respond.”
EMPOWER has gained traction within the global mental health field, now boasting partners like the CEO of the American Psychological Association on its advisory panel as well as cross-disciplinary researchers at Harvard and other universities.
Restivo said these partnerships set EMPOWER apart and “make sure that this work isn’t just another research project.”
Moving forward, Patel says “the biggest challenges are actually systemic, the financing.” But he is confident that funding will pour in “the moment that effective models are shown.”
So far, EMPOWER’s first modules have focused on basic skills, depression management, and early childhood intervention, with a more general curriculum in the works for laymen like me.
I watch Donna as she talks to patients in her office, nodding along to the other actors’ words, clipboard in hand. She’s putting the strategies I learned into practice. And although I’m watching a highly contrived scene play out and answering multiple choice questions along the way, I can see myself using the lessons from these modules in my interactions with friends.
This is Patel’s goal, that “anyone in the community can learn to support anyone else in the community,” he says. “There’s so much you can do in a single encounter.”
— Magazine writer Dina R. Zeldin can be reached at dina.zeldin@thecrimson.com.
Sections
As I walk into the room, I feel the bass pounding in my chest. Each step I take closer to the stage makes the noise even louder. The overhead red lighting sets the mood, hip-hop blaring as Black folk seat themselves in the audience, ready for the night to begin. Welcome to Macumba Latina, a club in Mattapan, and the home of Tickle Me Tuesday, a weekly all-Black comedy night hosted by Wendell L. Delk and his organization I Am My Own Hero.
Delk starts the event with the intention of putting Mattapan on the map in a positive way. Having grown up just a street over from where Tickle Me Tuesday is hosted, he wants to dismantle negative stereotypes about Mattapan by bringing together and uplifting the community that he was raised in.
I first learned about I Am My Own Hero at CambridgeSide Galleria’s Black History Month Pop-up, where I spoke to Lenika A. Gousby about the importance of highlighting Black joy through these weekly comedy nights. She describes the extreme gentrification in her area, “big development companies coming in and building up condos, forcing families to be displaced or move out.” Gousby added that the social isolation caused by the pandemic makes events like Tickle Me Tuesdays all the more essential — they create a space for Black folk to be happy and celebrate one another.
Events like Tickle Me Tuesday, Gousby explains, show that members in the community “are here to support and uplift each other, and that not everything that goes on in our communities is negative.”
A’Plus Hollywood, one of the comedians who performed at the show, agrees. She speaks about the healing role of comedy, particularly within the Black community. “Laughter is needed,” she says. “There's so many lives that have been taken from senseless killing. To keep going to the funerals and continuing to see ‘RIP’ everywhere – at some point, you have to make light of it.”
For the Black entertainers I spoke to, comedy is more than a performance. It is more than just standing up in front of an audience and reciting memorized jokes; it’s an interactive process of healing and community building. Sitting in the front row for the two-and-a-half-hour long show, I got a firsthand taste of a wide range of comedians. Some told raunchy stories, while others danced and encouraged the audience to move in their seats.
I was even the butt of a few jokes — the comedians were quick to call me “Ms. Harvard” throughout the show, telling me to “Blink twice if I needed any help.” I was a willing participant, and these comments drew me into the event, helping me feel like I was a part of the community.
Cookie H. Hull, a comedian of 16 years and writer for stand-up comic and actor Kat Williams, explains, “[Comedians] have something to say that makes you think. And yes, to make you laugh and change your mood.”
Hull says she prefers smaller, more intimate shows like Tickle Me Tuesdays, rather than performing in front of a sea of nameless faces, because they help people see the lessons in her comedy. She adds, “Comedy has messages, and comedians are the messenger.”
— Magazine writer Eden A. Getahun can be reached at eden.getahun@thecrimson.com
Sections
“Refresh it ten seconds before 7. That way when it loads it will be 7,” my friend tells me. Though well-intentioned, their advice just makes me even more nervous. The girl sitting to my right has pulled up a clock displaying each second, to make sure she gets it right on the dot.
You only get four shots at getting tickets to the Black Legacy Ball. And it’s the event everyone wants to attend – my friend’s parents even tried to fly in from California. Two weeks ahead of the event, the Harvard Black Student Association  releases tickets for four days in a row at 7 p.m., and each day, they sell out 30 seconds after dropping. Each day, a new group of 55 lucky people get a ticket, while the rest are resigned to expressing their exasperation in the Black Harvard GroupMe.
Tickets were in such high demand this year, BSA eventually released 51 more.
After three intense days of trying, I got my ticket. I could finally validate the decision I had made, caught up in the craze, to splurge on a nice, formal dress.
The Black Legacy Ball is the event of the year for BSA. Scheduled during the height of Black History Month, nothing generates more buzz than this event. Attendance is a must, and attire is nothing less than formal. It’s the college equivalent of a prom for the Black community.
But it’s more than just glamorous gowns and luxurious locations. The name “Black Legacy Ball” pays homage to both the people who paved the way before us and the people who blaze their own trail now. In a community that has had so much of its history taken, celebrating its legacy means the world.
Hakeem O. I. Angulu ’20, vice president of the BSA board responsible for organizing the ball, says the event “allowed people to have the space and time to reflect on their achievements as a community.”
First held in 2018, the ball is a relatively new event, but it has already managed to attract a significant amount of attention from the Black community at Harvard. Perhaps because it fulfilled something that Black Harvard needed.
“One of the things that a lot of people were wanting was an event that just celebrated Black people during Black History Month,” Angulu explains, thinking back to the inaugural ball. “We didn’t know at the beginning what it would look like. What the board did decide on at the beginning was that we needed something.”
As planning progressed, the BSA executive board formulated the idea of an event that would be accessible to all, have a relaxed dress code, include musical performances, and overall be stress- and charge-free. Out of these ideas, the only one still recognizable in the latest iteration of the event is the presence of musical performances. Formal wear eventually won out over casual wear, a pandemic necessitated attendance constraints, and the logistics proved too much to fund without the introduction of a ticket purchase requirement.
In spite of the event’s increasing exclusivity, or perhaps because of it, its popularity has surged. There’s something about the stress, excitement, and discussion that surrounds obtaining tickets, curating an outfit, and scheduling logistics that make you want to attend.
While the first inaugural Black Legacy Ball was held at Hampshire House across from Boston Common, this year’s took place at Venezia Restaurant on the Boston waterfront. It’s a dazzling venue where everything is a light taupe color and the walls shimmer. The neatly folded napkins are coordinated to the red color scheme and matched by the flowers that stand in gold-wrapped vases at the table’s center. But nothing is more beautiful than the smiling faces that crowd the dance floor. Everyone just seems to belong.
Both Angulu and current BSA President Remka Y. Nwana ’23 tell stories of finding community in events like the Black Legacy Ball. Each explicitly cite the Black community at Harvard as one of the major reasons they chose to attend this college. Coming from a predominantly white high school, Nwana found it important to prioritize building a connection to the Black community while going into college.
“My first year was definitely where I found most of my friends,” Nwana notes. “I went to all of the [BSA] programming.”
Since taking over as President, Nwana has aimed to amplify this spirit of connection. She expresses her desire for BSA to be somewhere people can go “not just for big stuff, but for the small personal connections as well.”
While the Black Legacy Ball is definitely an opportunity to get dressed up and take photos, Nwana emphasizes that what really excites her is that “we’re all together doing it.”
— Magazine writer Jem K. Williams can be reached at jem.williams@thecrimson.com. 
Sections
“Would you like to add anything to your experience?” asks a woman at the kiosk as I enter the exhibit. It’s $20 for a program, $8 for a recorded guide of the exhibit, and $25 for both — quite the steal. I bought the combo.

A set of escalators leads into a dark hallway. The humdrum outside quiets to a soft chatter and the sound of alternative rock music. The dark walls are lined with recolorations of well-known pieces, altered images of various celebrities, and simple quotations — all the work of one artist: Banksy.

Set in the center of Harvard Square, in one of the Harvard Coop buildings, the Art of Banksy showcases over 100 authentic pieces by the world-renowned street artist from Bristol, England. The exhibit itself is not organized or authorized by Banksy, but by a collection of private owners of Banksy’s art. The Art of Banksy Boston opened on Feb. 17 and is set to remain until May.
Tickets come at a variety of prices, spiking as the date comes closer, with general admission starting as high as $70 and climbing up to $110 for the so-called “VIP flex” ticket – the website’s proclaimed “best experience” that offers access to a VIP lounge, a limited edition poster, and a VIP souvenir laminate.

An anonymous street artist from Bristol and a product of its vibrant 1990s underground scene, Banksy creates art with anti-authoritarian and anti-consumerist messages, often using graffiti as his medium. His street art pieces tend to target public places owned by wealthy or powerful individuals and groups — using corporate and government buildings as his canvas. Many of his more attributable quotes touch on anti-capitalist themes facetiously and sarcastically: “Sometimes I feel so sick at the state of the world, I can't even finish my second apple pie.” Intended to make people uncomfortable and make them question the establishments they take for granted, his art is uncensored and raw.

In contrast, the Art of Banksy Boston is monotonous. It lacks all the vibrancy which makes Banksy’s work so striking in the first place. In the exhibit, Banksy’s art itself maintains its color and fervent, almost violent, qualities, but the ambience is dulled and distant from their original context: the street.

Room after room, the presentation of Banksy’s work never dares to make the viewer uncomfortable. The lack of context or description for the pieces requires that his work do all of the artistic heavy lifting. The $8 recorded guide, voiced by one of the many private collectors who contributed to the exhibit, similarly leaves much to be desired; although the narration offers insight into Banksy’s work and his critique of the existing art establishment, it rarely touches on his defiance against consumerism and capitalism.


Considering an enthused exhibit-goer could spend upwards of $140 for the full experience — and the fact that it is being shown in Harvard Square — the question of who the exhibit’s intended audience actually is comes to mind.
Among attendees, reception varies. One particularly excited viewer tells me how these pieces would not be open to the public without the exhibit and says that we’re lucky to see them at all. Others are not so easily convinced. A couple who did not give their names says that the exhibit is not worth it. They call it a “money grab.”
Just before the exit, the exhibit offers a merch shop. You can buy $25 Art of Banksy baseball caps, $10 Art of Banksy magnets, and $20 Art of Banksy playing cards. Above all this, a Banksy quote is branded onto the wall: “We can’t do anything to change the world until capitalism crumbles. In the meantime we should all go shopping to console ourselves.”

You know, maybe I will treat myself to an $80 Art of Banksy umbrella.
— Magazine writer William S. Hahn can be reached at william.hahn@thecrimson.com. 
Sections
When Michaela J. Thompson saw the listing for a new preceptor position in Harvard’s Environmental Science and Public Policy department in early 2018, she jumped to apply.
“It was almost a no-brainer for me to know that this was exactly what I wanted to do,” she says. A Harvard Kennedy School postdoctoral researcher at the time, Thompson studied marine conservation and sustainability. She also loved to teach — she had been a teaching assistant in several Harvard History of Science and ESPP courses for five years.
Three years later, Thompson still loves her job. As the only preceptor in a small department — usually fewer than 20 students per graduating class — she gets to know each of her students personally. She helps them write their senior theses and capstone projects and speaks to faculty advisors about what they want students to take away from the program, which has been “incredible” and “rewarding,” she says.
Yet Thompson goes to work knowing her days here are numbered. No matter how hard she works or how well she does, she will be forced to leave Harvard permanently at the end of this term. She’s timing out.
Like all non-tenure-track faculty in Harvard’s Faculty of Arts and Sciences —a category that includes College Fellows, Lecturers, and Preceptors — Thompson has a nonrenewable, time-capped appointment. For preceptors like Thompson, who provide specific language or skill-oriented instruction, that term is typically eight years, while for lecturers, who serve as more generalized course heads, the term lasts for three years.
But to Thompson, her imminent leave feels even more premature. Her five years as a teaching assistant are counted towards her eight-year preceptor time cap, even as her salary and responsibilities back then were vastly different from those of her current role.
The stress of searching for and applying to a new job adds to Thompson’s already full schedule as a preceptor, which requires her to spend most of the day teaching and conducting independent research. And Harvard has not made support easily accessible, she says. The most training — pedagogical or administrative — Thompson received was during faculty orientation, when she was shown how to use an online polling program she already knew.
Harvard promises its students the prowess of a research university with the close attention of a liberal arts college. Tenure-track faculty are appointed to focus on research, while non-tenure-track faculty typically engage more closely with students in everyday teaching and grading, particularly in foreign language, mathematics, and the Expository Writing classes all students are required to take. It’s a division of labor that ostensibly benefits everyone.
Yet, according to many non-tenure-track faculty, the University invests disproportionately more in the former group while neglecting the latter — denying lecturers and preceptors job security, opportunities for independent research, and a voice in decision-making. This approach, they claim, undermines the quality of Harvard’s teaching as well as the well-being of its teachers.
“Who is this good for?” asks Thompson, who, alongside her colleagues, has repeatedly spoken out against Harvard’s “counterproductive habit of automatically firing valued instructors.” Thus far, the University has refused to make changes in response to their petitions and protests, and the disparity between tenure-track and non-tenure-track faculty remains a persistent issue among universities across the country.
“Harvard has the opportunity here to really show the rest of academia, ‘This is how you respectfully treat non-tenure-track faculty,’” Thompson says.
Often fresh out of a Ph.D., newly-hired non-tenure-track faculty are flush with the excitement of teaching eager and bright students and coming to such a prestigious and resource-rich institution as Harvard.
“I’m like a child whenever I go to Widener,” says Persian language preceptor Mojtaba Ebrahimian, who came to Harvard last September. “I needed this book for the last three years, and here I finally have it.”
As he looks around at his spacious office, his new computer bought by the department, the many borrowed books on the shelves, and the ample supply of face masks nearby, Ebrahimian beams.
“These [amenities] may be small things for people coming from Ivy League institutions, but I have the background coming from the University of Arizona and the University of Wisconsin-Madison,” he says. “I see these things, and I really appreciate it.”
Ebrahimian comes from a family of teachers and fell in love with the profession at a young age. It was the unique combination of an emphasis on teaching with a vast amount of available resources in the Harvard Libraries that then drew him to apply for a preceptor position.
Other preceptors and lecturers interviewed for this article echoed his sentiments when describing what attracted them to the job. “I realized in the course of my Ph.D. that as much as I was excited by my research topic, I probably derive most of my energy from the communal aspect of intellectual life, and teaching was where I found it most,” says Expos preceptor Lusia A. Zaitseva.
But over the course of their time at Harvard, as semesters pass and the term limit looms large on the horizon, many of these faculty begin to question whether the benefits are enough to outweigh the instability of their time-capped appointments.
“Non-ladder faculty are dedicated and creative instructors who play vital roles in the teaching of Harvard undergraduates,” wrote FAS spokesperson Rachael Dane in an emailed statement. “​​When non-ladder faculty are hired, the terms of their employment and contract length are disclosed.”
When questioned by non-tenure-track faculty, Harvard has claimed the time cap system is necessary to ensure a constant stream of “novel pedagogical techniques.” A 2018 report by the FAS Advisory Committee to Review the Lecturer/Senior Lecturer System concluded that “in fields which are constantly evolving … or else where students’ intellectual interests continually change and require different areas of faculty expertise … the ability to regularly turn over teaching staff at the non-ladder level serves an essential educational purpose.”
But while many non-tenure-track faculty agree that relevance is a worthy goal, they are skeptical of a system that so heavily values novelty over retaining experienced instructors. They argue that over multiple semesters of teaching, they learn the pedagogical techniques that work best in the classroom — expertise that Harvard loses when these faculty inevitably leave.
A teacher who stays for the long term also benefits students in less tangible ways. When students are deciding what courses to take, familiarity with a long-time instructor’s teaching style can make all the difference to students’ comfort in the classroom. This is particularly key in language classes, where gaining fluency depends on building confidence.
“From the first week, I had this idea of what I would be getting into,” Ričards Umbrasko ’25 — who plans to earn a citation in Russian — says of his Russian language class. “I knew the teaching methods and the approach to language learning would stay the same, so I wouldn’t feel like I was out of place.”
Firing the “most experienced teachers” is disrupting students’ education, not improving it, says Expos preceptor Ben Roth.
“Set aside what’s good for us — why does Harvard think it’s good for Harvard?” Roth asks. “Why does Harvard think it’s good for Harvard undergraduate students?”
Even if novelty remains the priority for the University, Roth argues, there are other ways to pursue it, like regularly evaluating teaching performance instead of assuming that existing faculty can’t keep up with the times.
But Harvard has not changed its stance on this issue for over a decade, continually maintaining the conclusion the FAS Advisory Committee on Non-Ladder Appointments reached back in 2009: “many of the teaching functions held by non-ladder faculty are highly demanding and require regeneration that brings in fresh ideas, new talent, and the most recent pedagogical techniques.”
The only way for non-tenure-track faculty to prolong their term is to take on more administrative responsibilities either as a senior lecturer or senior preceptor. These roles are highly competitive, with renewable terms reserved only for those who have the “scholarly achievement of a tenured associate or full professor,” according to the FAS handbook. Some senior lecturers and preceptors appreciate that this route gives them stable employment without the stress of applying for tenure.
But not all non-tenure-track faculty want to become administrators. Many want to continue doing what initially attracted them to their jobs — teaching — and feel this path makes little sense for them. Nor does it seem to make sense for the University to turn some of its most accomplished scholars into administrators.
“The system is built to almost punish people who really care about the profession,” says Molecular and Cellular Biology preceptor Jessica Liu. “It just seems counterintuitive.”
While most lecturers and preceptors describe having positive experiences with colleagues within their own departments, many feel that their contributions go underappreciated and unrecognized within the University-wide faculty community.
In Expos preceptor Willa H. Brown’s experience, some tenured and tenure-track faculty completely misunderstand the requirements of a non-tenure-track position. “I’ve had these conversations with faculty where they say, ‘Oh, do you need a master’s for that job, or did you get it right out of undergrad?’” Brown, like most of the other Expos preceptors, holds a Ph.D.
Brown believes this misunderstanding stems from the Harvard administration’s understanding of non-tenure-track faculty. “I don’t blame the professors,” she says. “I think they are told [by the University] that we are like glorified TFs.”
To many tenure-track faculty at Harvard, Government lecturer and Expos preceptor Sparsha Saha says, “there is this perception that you’re a failed academic” if you only pursue teaching.
Indeed, the day-to-day reality of Harvard’s non-tenure-track faculty is a reflection of Harvard’s divided educational philosophy, one that prioritizes supporting research over supporting teaching. Only through ground-breaking research can faculty bolster the Harvard “brand,” taking on the moniker “Harvard researcher” when their discoveries garner press coverage.
Accordingly, tenured and tenure-track faculty are expected to spend much of their time in the lab and library rather than the classroom. Liu finds that as a result, tenure-track faculty often lack “the time or the bandwidth to read about the latest research on education or pedagogy” that she stays up-to-date on as a preceptor. “In my experience, even when you try to share it with them, they don’t think it’s important, or they’re too scared to try because they’re so used to their comfort zone,” she says.
In other words, tenure-track faculty are not incentivized to develop, and sometimes even actively resist, the “most recent pedagogical techniques” Harvard claims it values. Though the Derek Bok Center for Teaching and Learning offers skill development workshops to all faculty, they must proactively seek out these resources themselves. It is up to non-tenure-track faculty, then, to fill the teaching gap. In some ways, this policy grants them more latitude; for example, lecturers serve as “course heads for courses that would otherwise be taught by tenure-track or tenured faculty,” the FAS handbook says. Harvard claims this prepares its non-tenure-track faculty to pursue similar teaching-centered roles at similar institutions after their terms here end.
Non-tenure-track faculty, however, contest that these “teaching-only” positions even exist elsewhere.
“When Harvard says they’re preparing us for the ‘teaching track,’ in reality, all that could actually mean is they’re okay if we go on to adjunct jobs that don’t pay a living wage and don’t give us health insurance,” Roth says. “Those are the teaching jobs that are out there.”
Given these poor prospects, many lecturers and preceptors wish to break out of the cycle of job insecurity and apply for more stable tenure-track positions after Harvard. However, the growth of non-tenure-track positions has significantly outpaced the growth of tenure-track roles. Over the past 25 years, the percentage of faculty with tenure at schools with a tenure system has declined from 56 percent to 45 percent. This intense competition has created what Roth calls a “publication arms race” in which faculty are expected to have extensive research experience to even be considered for a tenure-track position.
Some non-tenure-track faculty manage to balance their current teaching responsibilities with pursuing research to prepare for future job applications. Vikrant Dadawala, a lecturer in the History and Literature department, estimates that he spends two days a week conducting research in addition to his teaching load. But for others, these competing interests take their toll. Saha says she often finds herself doing research late at night or on the weekends due to her teaching responsibilities.
“Every once in a while one of my colleagues publishes a book, and that’s a miracle that they found the time, in addition to their teaching, to make progress with that,” Roth adds.
Exacerbating these time constraints, non-tenure-track faculty say, is the lack of institutional support given to them for research. The few funds available to non-tenure-track faculty for summer work and conference travel were discontinued last year due to pandemic budget cuts, according to Brown.
Lecturers, preceptors, and senior preceptors cannot be the principal investigator, or lead researcher, on their own research projects unless they have explicit approval from divisional administrators. “Every time I want to do research, if I have a research project, I have to go around begging tenure-track [faculty],” Saha says. “I’ve missed grant deadlines; I’ve missed things because I’ve had people say no.”
Many non-tenure-track faculty are passionate about their research projects and would love to pursue them — if only Harvard would give them the time and funding they require. Rather than competing with or distracting from their teaching responsibilities, these faculty say, the two could actually complement each other.
“I’m teaching my research,” says Chemistry lecturer Khaled Abdelazim of his lab-intensive course Chemistry 165: “Experimental Physical Chemistry.”
“When I go to the students, I honestly just transfer the knowledge I’ve learned from the lab,” he says.
The Expos program — a required college writing course for freshmen — also demonstrates how these pursuits can overlap. Despite the University’s expectation that Expos preceptors are focused on teaching writing skills, they recruit program faculty with a diverse array of research experience — and Expos faculty report that they draw on that expertise for the classroom.
For instance, Roth incorporates his philosophy research experience while teaching Expos 20 courses like “Existentialism” and “Philosophical Films.”
“Who thinks you can teach one in the absence of the other?” he says.
***
The impermanence of a non-tenure-track position affects not only faculty members’ careers but also the life decisions they must make because they lack stable employment.
“If you want to pursue this career track, you have to put everything second to that,” Brown says. Non-tenure-track faculty often delay starting families and put relationships on hold, she says, not wanting to “settle” in a place where they can only stay for a few years.
Many of Harvard’s support programs for tenure-track faculty exclude their non-tenure-track counterparts. Tenure-track faculty have access to Harvard-owned, income-controlled housing, allowing them an easier entry into the city with the 12th most expensive average home price in the United States. Only a portion of non-tenure-track faculty receive such aid. All but senior lecturers and preceptors lack access to Harvard’s ACCESS Program, which provides ladder faculty with priority enrollment and scholarships to campus childcare centers.
These policies, Brown notes, push out marginalized non-tenure-track faculty members in particular. “We say we want a really diverse faculty — well, you can’t then pay something that only allows people to take the job if they have generational wealth,” she says. “The fact that I don’t have debt is why I can live to a nice standard in Boston, and that is sheer privilege.”
In her statement, Dane wrote that “tenure-track positions and non-ladder faculty positions have different responsibilities — and the roles are paid commensurate with those responsibilities.” She notes that the minimum salary for lecturers and preceptors has risen by 18 percent since 2019.
Still, many non-tenure-track faculty members end up pursuing additional part-time work to make ends meet. Saha teaches classes at Harvard’s Extension School for additional income,“a very common model for non-tenure-track folks at Harvard,” she says. However, these extra teaching commitments, when added to an already teaching-heavy workload, take further time away from the few hours faculty have for research and job applications.
For Thompson, this means continuing to teach in the summer to keep up with Boston’s high rent and living costs. “There's a lot of burning the candle at both ends,” she says.
The burdens faced by non-tenure-track faculty are now taking place against the backdrop of the pandemic. Over the past two years, an already shrinking market has taken a nosedive, with decreased funding, hiring freezes, and layoffs hitting academic departments across the United States.
The teaching-focused nature of non-tenure-track positions reinforce the difficulty of finding a job after Harvard, which sets off a vicious cycle. Because of how few positions are available in academia, it is now common for faculty to stay the full length of their term, during which they concentrate on teaching. But because they are unable to focus on their research for increasingly longer periods of time, they become less attractive in the job market and remain in less stable, non-tenure-track roles.
“I moved here thinking this would be a few years and I would find the right fit somewhere [else], and that never really happened,” says Saha.
Changing this system is possible — many of these challenges of job stability faced by non-tenure-track faculty were previously shouldered by Harvard’s “junior faculty” — now called tenure-track faculty.
When Andrew H. Knoll was applying for a junior faculty position at Harvard in the early ’80s, his interviewer said to him, “I don’t know why you’re applying for this position. You’ll never get tenure.” Today, Knoll is a professor in Harvard’s Natural History and Earth and Planetary Sciences departments.
In the early 2000s, Harvard restructured its tenure system to reduce appointments from other schools in favor of more internally appointed professorships from its own junior faculty.
According to Knoll, departments now seek to hire promising young researchers and pair them with senior mentors that will provide them with resources and help them grow in their teaching and research capabilities; so long as they continue to maintain a high caliber of work, tenure-track assistant professors can expect to become associate and then tenured professors.
Thanks to these reforms, Knoll says, assistant professors “are not just ornaments at faculty meetings; they are valued colleagues and everyone wants to hear their opinions.”
As the reform of Harvard’s tenure system demonstrates, changes to faculty policies are indeed possible. However, the University has refused to make similar adjustments to its non-tenure-track policies. And given that they are not voting members of the faculty, non-tenure-track instructors have little say in decisions concerning either their own jobs or their students’ education.
In 2020, Harvard extended appointments and tenure review timelines for many tenure-track faculty as a result of the pandemic. A widely circulated petition received more than a thousand supporters calling for Harvard to also extend the non-tenure-track faculty time caps by at least one year due to the challenges of remote teaching. The University did not grant this extension.
Harvard maintained its term limit policies for a third time in spring 2021, when it shared with preceptors a report reviewing their role. The report reaffirmed the time cap system requiring preceptors to leave at the end of their eight-year term regardless of performance. The committee that wrote the report did not contain any non-tenure-track faculty, nor did it have any direct conversations with them. According to Dane, the FAS had originally scheduled an in-person meeting for preceptors and lecturers to give feedback to the committee, but when the pandemic forced campus operations to go remote, the in-person meeting was replaced with a survey. According to Roth, the survey was only returned by roughly a third of the group.
For Roth, this “insulting” and “incompetent” report marked a turning point in his time at Harvard. His frustrations motivated him to publish an op-ed in the Chronicle of Higher Education last March. “[Harvard] all but admits that it is exploiting us, burning through our teaching energy and good will, because it can discard us, replacing us with the next generation of eager new Ph.D.s who will keep it running,” he wrote.
Roth notes that his willingness to air his grievances stems from the certainty of his termination at the end of the next academic year: He feels he has “absolutely nothing to lose.” In contrast, he believes many non-tenure-track faculty are afraid to say anything and risk losing one of the few renewals they are offered.
Roth believes his arc from excited to disillusioned is “fairly representative” of the non-tenure-track faculty experience. “It takes you a few years to even realize that the conditions are exploitative,” he says.
Caught in between an industry with little room for them, an institution that they say neglects their concerns, and their passion for their jobs, many non-tenure-track faculty are uncertain about what comes next for both their careers and personal lives.
“Do I stay through the fall and keep the institutional affiliation, and try once more [for a job in academia]?” says Brown, who is almost seven years into her preceptor term. “Or do I swallow my pride and say, ‘I gave it a good whack, I wrote a book, I taught at Harvard, and I got my Ph.D., and it’s time to go start a new career’?”
Yet they do not have the luxury of putting off plans for a later day. From the moment non-tenure-track faculty arrive at Harvard, their eventual departure is one of the few certainties in their future. In this unstable situation, they must therefore try to determine their next steps.
For Roth, who was recently diagnosed with diabetes, finding new employment to cover the cost of his healthcare is a constant concern. “It’s basically essential that I now have health insurance for the rest of my life,” he says. “I know that Harvard’s going to fire me and take away my health insurance a year and a half from now.”
Some have decided that the only viable path forward is something they hadn’t considered when they started their Ph.D.s: to leave academia altogether. Zaitseva is one of these people. “I thought really pragmatically about the life I wanted to have — it’s not possible on a Harvard paycheck, in a non-tenure-track position,” she says. She is considering transitioning after her preceptor term ends in 2025 to a career in web development, where her job prospects look significantly better.
“It’s turned out to be much easier in the outside world,” she says.
— Magazine writer Felicia Y. Ho can be reached at felicia.ho@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @HoPanda007.
— Magazine writer Tess C. Kelley can be reached at tess.kelley@thecrimson.com.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
With Harvard College’s March 1 transfer deadline rapidly approaching, current Harvard students who transferred to Harvard over the past few years are looking back on their own application experiences.
Harvard College only accepts around 12 transfer students each year, according to its admissions website, which notes that the admissions committee looks for three main things in transfer applicants: a “clearly defined academic need” for transferring, a strong academic record at the applicant’s current school, and strong faculty recommendations.
Although the College’s standard admissions cycle had a 3.4 percent acceptance rate for the class of 2025, the transfer student acceptance rate has in the past hovered around 1 percent — in 2012, for instance, the College accepted 15 transfer students from an applicant pool of 1,448 applicants, according to a Crimson published that summer.
Samuel K. Meyerson ’22 said he did not find the Harvard transfer admissions process to be much different than applications for other schools.
“I think that the transfer admissions process is basically the same thing as the initial college process,” Meyerson said, “with a few more essays, and you get college professors to write the recs instead of high school teachers.”
Anna C. Clark ’23, who began her sophomore year at Harvard remotely after transferring, said she believed the emphasis in the transfer process is more focused on academics.
Meyerson, who transferred from Williams College in 2019, said he decided to transfer because he was interested in more “niche” subjects for which a smaller liberal arts school like Williams would have fewer resources.
“I was really interested in German history, and also in the Israel-Palestine conflict,” Meyerson said. “They're kind of niche-y things that I was more able to explore at Harvard at a higher level.”
After receiving their acceptances, some transfer students said they still found the adjustment difficult.
Alexander J. Walsh ’22, who started at Harvard as a sophomore in 2019, said adjustment to college life at Harvard was “tricky” without the same resources freshmen often have to help them adjust to college.
“We don’t get to experience a lot of things freshmen get to experience,” Walsh said. “We don't have freshman seminars, we don’t have blocking groups when we move into houses.”
Several students also explained that credits from their former institutions do not always transfer over smoothly.
Brittany J. Rosendaul ’22 said she was surprised by the concentration requirements for some departments at the College, specifically regarding joint concentrations.
“If you’re a Psych student, you can’t joint concentrate, which was one of the few things that truly — once I was accepted — blindsided me,” Rosendaul said.
Rosendaul added that she found it challenging that not all of her science and general education requirements credits necessarily transferred. Meyerson, too, reported difficulties transfering course credits.
Despite potential academic and social challenges — and even having to start Harvard on Zoom — Clark said she does not regret her decision.
“Transferring to Harvard is hands down the best decision I’ve ever made,” Clark said. “Being in Harvard at home, on Zoom, I was happier than I was at my old school in person.”
—Staff writer Rahem D. Hamid can be reached at rahem.hamid@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Nia L. Orakwue can be reached at nia.orakwue@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Buddhist students on campus have a new place they can call home: Harvard Maarga.
Zehan Zhou ’22 and Suneragiri Liyanage ’24, co-presidents of Maarga, led the charge to revitalize a Buddhist space on campus beginning in October 2021. The organization received official recognition from the Undergraduate Council last month.
Zhou said he grew up in a Buddhist family and was looking to further engage with his religious roots at Harvard, but found no such group during his first three years at the College.
“There’s a graduate students Buddhist organization, but a lot of the topics that they were talking about, quite frankly, didn’t really resonate with my experiences,” he said.
Liyanage also grew up in a Buddhist family. He said his upbringing in Sri Lanka shaped what he wanted out of a Buddhist group on campus.
“I was severely disappointed to come here and say, ‘Okay, there are no Buddhists around to speak to,’” he said
Harvard Dharma, a Hindu student association, assisted Zhou and Liyanage through the club registration process. Zhou said many shared traditions and beliefs across Hinduism and Buddhism allowed for collaboration between the groups.
“With their generosity, we both share the same prayer space because most of the deities in Buddhism are the same deities they have in Hinduism,” Zhou said.
Khin-Kyemon Aung ’14, a tutor in Dunster House, also provided guidance as Zhou and Liyanage started the organization.
“When I was a student, I would have loved to be part of an organization like this — to get to meet other people from all different parts of the world to find Buddhism a source of strength and a source of comfort,” she said.
Maarga has hosted numerous events throughout the semester, in spite of campus Covid restrictions — including ones centered around calligraphy, lantern-making, and meditation. The group also plans to hold outdoor events, including ice skating, in the future.
“We’ve tried to turn it into more of an advantage and less of a disadvantage,” Liyanage said of the Covid restrictions.
Liyanage said the founders’ main vision is “making a space for critical discussion.”
“The most important part is we just want a space where we can share our upbringings, and where we can participate in a community get-together,” Zhou said.
—Rohan Rajeev can be reached at rohan.rajeev@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Citizens’ Assembly — an unelected body tasked with drafting a new constitution for Harvard College’s student government — is facing questions over its structure.
The body is the brainchild of Undergraduate Council President Michael Y. Cheng ’22, who was elected on a pledge to defund the UC and rewrite its constitution. The Citizens’ Assembly is composed of 30 randomly-selected students, five of whom are in the UC. The body’s meetings are not open to the public.
Some general UC members have raised questions over the body’s structure.
In an interview earlier this month, Dunster Representative Samuel H. Taylor ’24 said there has been minimal communication with general members about the Citizens’ Assembly’s process.
“I can’t really say an awful lot about the constitutional convention, because I never really know what’s going on inside it, and no one does,” Taylor said. “I don’t think the solution is to shut the doors and have 30 people who are quote, unquote ‘randomly selected’ to discuss this without any participation whatsoever from the UC institution.”
At Tuesday’s UC meeting, Lowell House Representative LyLena D. Estabine ’24, a Citizens’ Assembly member, updated general UC members on the body’s progress. UC representatives questioned the assembly’s decision to close its meetings to the public, its level of communication with the general body, and its representativeness.
Cheng said in an interview the private process is intended to facilitate open conversation.
“There’s a level of trust that they can make arguments, saying things that might not initially seem popular,” he said. “You kind of need a blank slate. You don’t need a bunch of UC people staring people down, intimidating members of the student body.”
The Citizens’ Assembly plans to publicize its first draft at its next meeting, per Cheng. At Tuesday’s meeting, Estabine said the body “could definitely consider” opening its meetings to the public in the future.
The 30 Citizens’ Assembly members were randomly selected from a lottery, using a sorting algorithm in consultation with Ariel D. Procaccia, a computer science professor at Harvard, according to Cheng.
Though 30 members were selected, the body has suffered from a drop in attendance. According to Cheng, 22 members attended the body’s first meeting, but attendance has fallen to roughly 16 to 20 members at subsequent meetings.
Citizens’ Assembly member Juan I. Pedraza Arellano ’25, who stopped attending meetings after the second week, raised concerns about the representativeness of the body.
“One of the things that I noticed was that a lot of the students in the Citizens’ Assembly are white,” Arellano said. “The racial makeup of it is also not super representative of the students and I really feel like there should be a lot more voices of people of color.”
Roughly 100 students completed a series of demographic questions in order to enter the lottery. According to Cheng, the original body was 12 percent Black or African American, 43 percent white, 23 percent Hispanic, and 26 percent Asian or Asian American.
“It’s not perfect given that certain volunteers dropped out, but things like gender, ethnicity [are] representative broadly of the College,” he said.
Still, Cheng said he is hopeful the Citizens’ Assembly will produce change.
“If you looked up the contrast between a UC meeting where everyone is fighting, thinking about how they can maximize their own advantage, and then the Citizens’ Assembly meeting where people had real disagreements that they talked about,” Cheng said. “The difference between a UC team meeting and a Citizens’ Assembly meeting is night and day.”
—Staff writer Mert Geyiktepe can be reached at mert.geyiktepe@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Former Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos welcomed his country’s recent move to decriminalize abortion in his first public remarks since the ruling at a Harvard Institute of Politics forum on Wednesday.
Colombia’s Constitutional Court released a historic decision on Monday that decriminalized abortions during the first 24 weeks of pregnancy, following in the footsteps of Mexico and Argentina. Previously, abortion was only allowed in Colombia under very specific circumstances, and receiving an illegal abortion was punishable by several years in prison.
Santos called the court’s ruling “very controversial,” but said he supported the move.
“I agree with what the Constitutional Court did in Colombia, expanding the weeks where abortion is allowed,” Santos said. “I think it was a correct move, and I support it.”
“If you ask me, I think they did the right thing,” he added.
In an interview before the event, Santos declined to explicitly give his support for further legalizing abortion rights.
“We are a very conservative society and conservative country,” he said. “I think this gradualism is a correct way to proceed.”
Santos said he believes this is part of a global trend toward abortion legalization.
“Eventually, I think all the countries are moving in that direction,” he said. “We have to measure the convenience of doing things at the correct pace.”
Santos, who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2016, was greeted by a packed house at the forum, where he was joined by Kennedy School professor Yanilda María González. In addition to the decriminalization of abortion, they discussed climate change and challenges facing democracy in the U.S. and Latin America.
At the forum, Santos also explained how the impact of the pandemic on countries’ economies has made it more difficult to transition to green energy. He noted that Colombia’s primary export is oil, and the country is also a major exporter of coal.
“We go and we promised in Glasgow that we are going to do many things,” he said, referring to the United Nations Climate Change Conference held in the fall. “But we go back, or the government goes back, and does exactly the opposite because of the lack of political capacity to take the decisions that are many times difficult to take.”
Santos said Latin America has an “extremely important” role to play in combating climate change because of its ecosystems and biodiversity, but political issues have prevented the region from doing more.
“We are a fundamental part of this challenge to make this world a cleaner world and environmentally sustainable world,” Santos said. “But unfortunately, the political situation and the democracy is making that possibility more and more difficult.”
Santos also addressed the United States’ deteriorating standing on the world stage, saying that the U.S. is failing to lead in the Americas.
“All of the countries south of Rio Grande had great expectations with the Biden administration,” he said. “But because of internal political problems in the U.S., the Biden administration has done almost nothing with the Latin American countries.”
Recent political scandals in the United States have had a strong effect on Latin America, according to Santos. He pointed to the Capitol insurrection last January as an event that could inspire other attacks on the legitimacy of democratic processes.
“Nobody really thinks that the U.S. can exercise the type of leadership that should be present,” Santos said.
—Staff writer Miles J. Herszenhorn can be reached at miles.herszenhorn@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @MHerszenhorn.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Cambridge will lift its indoor mask mandate on March 14, the city announced Wednesday.
The mask mandate — which applies to restaurants, places of worship, performance venues, and other places “open to members of the public” — originally took effect in September 2021. In an effort to combat the fast-spreading Omicron variant, the mandate was strengthened in January to include common areas in some residential buildings.
An amended emergency order released Wednesday by Cambridge City Manager Louis A. DePasquale and Public Health Commissioner Assaad J. Sayah extended the most recent version of the indoor mask mandate — previously set to expire on Feb. 27 — to March 13 at 11:59 p.m.
The announcement comes as Covid-19 cases are declining rapidly in the greater Boston area.
“Cambridge has seen a steady decrease in reported cases, test positivity, and COVID-19 virus detection in the City’s municipal wastewater monitoring program,” the city’s announcement said.
“According to data from the Massachusetts Department of Public Health, 92 percent of residents have received at least one dose of a COVID-19 vaccine, 76 percent of residents are fully vaccinated, and 45 percent have received a booster dose,” the announcement continued.
After the mandate is lifted, businesses may continue to require that patrons wear masks inside their establishment, the announcement said. Mask requirements for visitors and employees inside municipal buildings will continue through March 27.
Cambridge Public Schools has not yet announced any changes to its mask mandate, but officials previously said the school system will align its policies with the city’s.
“At this time, we have not made any changes to our mask protocols and our current requirements will remain in effect following the February break. Looking ahead, we will align any changes with those the city makes,” CPS Superintendent Victoria L. Greer wrote in an announcement to public school families on Feb. 18.
As of March 14, Cambridge’s mask guidance will match that of the Massachusetts Department of Public Health, which no longer recommends that fully-vaccinated individuals wear masks indoors.
However, the state health department continues to require that both vaccinated and unvaccinated residents wear masks in transportation, healthcare, and “congregate care” settings. The MDPH also recommends continued indoor masking for vaccinated individuals who are immunocompromised or at high risk or live with those who are.
—Staff writer Katerina V. Corr can be reached at katerina.corr@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @KaterinaCorr.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
On Sept. 9, 2021, Harvard announced it would allow its remaining holdings tied to the fossil fuel industry to expire, effectively divesting its endowment from the sector.
The announcement came after a decade of student activism, protests, and even legal complaints and marked a reversal in the stance of University President Lawrence S. Bacow and other administrators, who had long rejected calls for divestment.
Over a year earlier, the Harvard Corporation — the University’s highest governing body — directed Harvard Management Company, which oversees the endowment, to achieve net-zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. Since then, HMC has released annual climate reports detailing its progress toward the target.
In its latest report, HMC announced its internal operations will achieve net-zero emissions for fiscal year 2022 and that its investments in “climate solutions” are approaching one percent of the endowment.
The company’s emissions pledge is consistent with a growing trend in finance to consider environmental, social, and corporate governance — or ESG — factors in their investment and business practices.
As HMC continues to work toward achieving its pledge, climate and financial experts weighed in on the challenges the company faces, including difficulties obtaining data on and measuring the emissions of its partners.
The Greenhouse Gas Protocol, the most common international standard for emissions accounting, separates measurements of an organization’s greenhouse gas emissions into three categories: Scope 1, Scope 2, and Scope 3.
Scope 1 calculates a company’s direct greenhouse gas emissions from sources under its control, such as operational vehicles or furnaces. Purchased electricity, heat, and steam make up a company’s Scope 2 emissions, while all other indirect emissions sources — such as business travel and waste disposal — fall under Scope 3.
HMC committed to measuring and eliminating the Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions of its internal operations beginning in fiscal year 2022. But it has not clarified which scope or scopes of emissions it uses to report and set targets for the endowment’s footprint.
Aaron S. Yoon, a professor of accounting at Northwestern University, said that in determining which emissions to account for, HMC should “be mindful” that companies in its portfolio could report smaller environmental footprints by “pushing their emissions down the supply chain.”
Galina Hale, an economics professor at the University of California, Santa Cruz, said for many companies, reporting Scope 3 emissions is “what matters most,” but added that such disclosures were “difficult” to estimate and “hard to verify.”
Patrick S. McKiernan, a spokesperson for HMC, wrote in an email that the company has ongoing efforts to clarify a process for measuring its emissions.
“HMC continues to work with our external managers and third-party experts to address the challenges of data access and develop a consensus methodology for calculating emissions,” he wrote.
New York University finance professor David L. Yermack ’85 said HMC’s statements on their efforts to obtain accurate emissions data are “not much of a promise.” He said HMC could be more proactive in ensuring its partnered asset managers provide data.
“They could be much more exclusionary and just say we won’t invest in any company that doesn’t have a robust set of audited numbers,” said Yermack, a former Crimson managing editor.
Yermack also said he was “skeptical” of the accuracy of emissions estimates from non-traditional investments such as private equity and venture capital, arguing that measuring climate emissions is “the last thing in the world” startup technology companies are concerned about.
“You’re talking about a big vacant space — a black hole of information — where the University wouldn’t know one way or the other because the companies themselves probably don't know,” Yermack said.
Yoon called for HMC to be “much more specific” in its annual climate reports and to provide “actual data” beyond simply case studies.
“It’s that sort of goal and clear disclosure that helps us understand as stakeholders of Harvard what they’re doing with our endowment money,” said Yoon, a Business School alum.
Despite HMC’s pledge to achieve net-zero emissions tied to its endowment, it remains unclear whether the purchase of carbon offsets will play a role.
Offsets, which are reductions in greenhouse gasses in one place to counter emissions elsewhere, allow an investment portfolio to appear neutral despite continuing to emit greenhouse gasses.
Bruce M. Usher, a professor at Columbia Business School, wrote that it is “nearly impossible” for a company to achieve net-zero emissions “without some use of offsets.”
Yoon said that HMC should put offsets “at the top of their agenda” in conversations with their asset managers. He called for HMC to be “aggressive” in asking whether companies in its portfolio are relying on offsets to achieve emissions targets and for information on the nature of the offsets used.
Hale also warned that related “social factors” need to be accounted for in measuring the integrity of offsets purchased.
“We can plant trees to sequester carbon from the atmosphere, but to plant the trees, you need the land,” Hale said. “An important social issue there is to make sure it does not result in expropriating land from the most disadvantaged populations.”
HMC’s latest climate report also indicated that engagement with asset managers and owners marks a vital step in the company’s plan for reaching its net-zero goal.
“Through our engagement efforts we seek to improve climate transparency and governance, promote real economy emissions reduction, and support a just transition,” the report reads.
The report pointed to an increase in shareholder engagement on climate issues, with the number of climate-related proposals submitted by shareholders jumping to 84 during the 2021 proxy season, up from 53 in 2020.
Laura Devenney, an analyst at asset management firm Boston Trust Walden, called the increase in shareholder concern regarding climate change “significant,” even though the proposals are not legally binding.
“If 60 or 80 percent of your shareholders are telling a company that you need to address a climate-related issue, it’s important the company take notice,” Devenney said.
Connor P. Chung ’23, an organizer for Fossil Fuel Divest Harvard, said the University’s decision to allow its remaining investments tied to fossil fuels to run off aligned its endowment “with its moral, financial, and legal duties to act on climate.”
“Harvard has an immense opportunity to lead our environment, and investment practices are one key way in which we all hope this plays out,” he said.
But others believe that individual institutions have a limited ability to mitigate the effects of climate change.
Harvard geology professor Daniel P. Schrag — who served on former President Barack Obama’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology — criticized the school’s focus on the size of its own carbon footprint, rather than the scale of global emissions.
“One of my frustrations has been that historically, Harvard has put more money into worrying about its own sustainability, which, to me, is mostly well-intentioned public relations,” he said.
Yermack said that attempts by shareholders to influence company practices are “mostly symbolic” and encouraging emissions reduction should be a governmental responsibility.
“The best thing to do would be to be pressing through the political system for tighter regulation of the industry,” he said.
Yermack also said he believes universities will be more influential on climate issues by conducting research, funding grants, and granting tenure to professors who teach about the environment.
“Harvard’s comparative advantage is doing research and getting smart people to work on important issues,” he said. “That kind of thing is gonna be much more effective than getting the endowment to make an open-ended pledge to do something by the year 2050.”
Schrag stated that Harvard’s current pledge is “not a very effective path.” Instead, he said, Harvard should focus its efforts toward educating students about climate change.
University spokesperson Jason A. Newton declined to comment.
Some experts argue HMC needs to weigh whether it would be willing to sacrifice profit to invest in climate change mitigation efforts.
Harvard economics professor Oliver D. Hart said investments that benefit the environment may not financially benefit HMC’s portfolio.
“It would defy the laws of gravity to say that all the things on each of the ESG dimensions — which many people think are desirable themselves — that all of them go together with more profit,” Hart said.
Hale disputed the claim that ESG investment practices may harm profits, but added that she believes Harvard has a duty to stakeholders — especially students — to accept slightly lower returns if necessary.
“The future of this planet is in the interest of this important and large group of stakeholders,” she said. “If you take into account the other interests of stakeholders, like lower warming and reaching the net-zero goals and better future better health, then I think it's still a sound investment.”
Addressing climate change through investment strategies nonetheless remains a contested strategy.
“It's a tiny fraction compared to the impact we have in our classrooms and our influence in the world through our expertise,” Schrag said.
—Staff writer Dekyi T. Tsotsong can be reached at dekyi.tsotsong@thecrimson.com
—Staff writer Eric Yan can be reached at eric.yan@thecrimson.com.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard fell in two tough matches in Evanston, Ill. over the weekend, with Northwestern delivering a swift 7-0 defeat, and Miami University edging out the Crimson 4-3. The matches bring Harvard’s overall record to 5-4.
Northwestern, currently 4-3 for the season, swept the Crimson in both singles, with straight-set victories in every match. Top seed, first-year Maxi Duncan, lost to the Wildcats’ Clarissa Hand in two sets, 7-6 (7-5), 6-2, but fought to a tie-break in the first. The rest of the matches were similarly brutal, with Northwestern’s players making quick work of each win over Harvard.
“Coming into it we knew that it was going to be a tough match for us,” said first-year Rachel Arbitman. “I do think that we definitely could have done better in some aspects, but overall it was a good match and learning experience to play a team in the Big 10.”
Arbitman played Northwestern's Sydney Pratt in the third position match. Pratt served a quick 6-0, 6-1 match against Arbitman, who was returning from a shoulder injury.
“Last semester I unfortunately was struggling with a shoulder problem, which now unfortunately after the Northwestern match has come up again,” Arbitman explained. “Right now, it’s just going to be a long process of rehab and working back into it and taking some time off.”
Doubles play was also a challenge for the Crimson. The single six-game set format meant that Northwestern was able to quickly take the lead in each match. The team of Sydney Pratt and Hannah McColgen for the Wildcats secured an easy 6-1 win over Harvard senior Rachel Lim and sophomore Sany Gawande. Meanwhile, junior Sophia Ho and sophomore Iveta Daujotaite fell in a decisive 6-2 match against Northwestern’s Briana Crowley and Christina Hand.
“We had new partners, and that’s always a little tough,” Arbitman recalled. “We didn’t get to practice with them [before the match] because we had last minute Covid cases and injuries, so we had to overcome that and do the best we could in that situation.”
Arbitman played alongside fellow first-year Maxi Duncan in the first position doubles match. The pair fought to 3-5, but the match went unfinished due to their role as the clinch match. Duncan and Arbitman faced the duo of Clarissa Hand and Maria Shusharina.
Despite the difficult loss on Sunday, the Crimson stayed optimistic moving into the next day of competition against Miami University. The Redhawks suffered an identical 0-7 beating by Northwestern before facing off against Harvard.
“I think we came back even stronger the next day,” Arbitman said. “It’s definitely different to see other D1 teams play, and we fought really hard.”
Arbitman was unable to play due to a persisting shoulder injury. Even so, the Crimson put up a fight in both singles and doubles. Each singles match was hard-fought, with Miami eventually winning four of six. Harvard won singles matches in the third and fifth position matches. Sophomore Sany Gawande defeated Miami’s Nishitha Saravanan in a three-set thriller, 6-3, 6-7 (5-7), 6-2. In a similarly close matchup, sophomore Amy Huang bested Sarah Dev in three sets, 7-6 (7-1), 6-7 (9-11), 11-9. Huang’s match was incredibly tight, with both players struggling to break ahead through tiebreaks. Two other Harvard players, Lim and Daujotaite, fell in three-set competitions.
“I definitely saw so much grit and energy out there,” said Arbitman, who had the opportunity to watch the entirety of the Miami match. “It was so nice to see such an energetic and pumped up team.”
The Crimson performed well in doubles despite players having to adjust to new partners amid struggles with injuries and illness. Duncan and Huang overcame Catherine Denysiewicz-Slowek and Nishitha Saravanan in an easy 6-1 set, while Daujotaite and Gawande beat Sara Zalukar and Emila Valentinsson 6-2.
Despite their positive outlook and strong showing at the match, the Crimson fell 3-4, bringing Miami’s overall record for the season to 5-3. Harvard’s lineup changed for the Miami match following injuries the previous day.
“It was a bit tough coming in and playing such [Miami] with so many players out, but we did what we could,” Arbitman explained. “We were very versatile and resilient.”
The team will use the time before their next competition to continue working on their games and focusing on staying healthy. The Crimson will face Old Dominion University in Norfolk, Va., on March 6.
—Staff writer Caroline Gage can be reached at caroline.gage@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard Women’s Golf opened the 2022 season with a matchup against Charleston Southern University in Charleston, S.C., on Feb. 19. This season, the Crimson got off to an early start, playing a match in February for the first time in program history. Harvard has been playing indoors since the third week of October, so the match against the Pirates marked the team’s first chance to show off the improvements it had made over the course of the winter.
“We were able to find competition, a match against Charleston Southern, which is weeks earlier than we normally do,” Harvard head coach Kevin Rhoads said.
Seven head-to-head matches were held over the weekend, but, as is standard in NCAA Division I golf,  only five would be counted toward the team result. Of those five matches, the Crimson had one win, two draws, and two losses in a season-opening defeat.
“We were predictably rusty, but that’s how it should be at this time of the year. And this is really just a way for us to start to get our feet under us, outdoors,” said Rhoads, who is in his 18th season coaching Harvard’s women’s team. Rhoads, the New England PGA Teacher of the Year in both 2008 and 2013, also coaches the men’s team, where he is currently in his tenth campaign.
Sophomore Isabella Gomez defeated Madison Freeman, 3 and 2. Unfortunately for the Crimson, the native of Bogota, Colombia, would claim Harvard’s only victory in the match.
First-year Catie Schernecker tied with CSU opponent Libby Singleton. Likewise, senior Chloe Royston ended all square with the Pirates’ Caroline Engelbredt to claim another half-point.
With Charleston Southern’s Isabella Friberg landing a critical blow on sophomore Yoona Kim, defeating her 5 and 4, and with each team tied on two points apiece, the season-opening match came down to the final pairing: sophomore Meiyi Yan and the Pirates’ Erica Whitehouse. The battle came all the way down to the 18th green, with Whitehouse barely edging the Windermere, Fla., native, 1 up. Despite the narrow defeat, the Crimson was able to claim some solace in the matches which did not count towards the score, as senior Anina Ku thrashed the Pirates’ Kathryn Thorne, 5 and 3. Harvard lost the other uncounted match, as Charleston Southern’s Shani Brynard was able to edge first-year Katie Dzialga, 2 up.
After a strong fall season, which Harvard concluded on Oct. 16 with a second-place finish out of 12 teams in Delaware’s UD Lady Blue Hen Invitational, Rhoads and the Crimson hope to build off its momentum as the spring campaign ramps up.
“We had a very successful fall season,” Rhoads said. “We have talent, we have very hard work, and we have a really directed and focused team that's trying to accomplish some special things together.”
One of those special things would be a victory in the Ivy League Championships, which will take place April 22-24 at The Ridge at Back Brook in Ringoes, N.J. Harvard has been dominant in the conference tournament, earning eight Ancient Eight titles since 2008. In 2019, the last time the tournament was contested before being canceled in 2020 and 2021 due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Harvard not only claimed the team title, but first-year Elizabeth Wang won the individual championship. Rhoads is confident that this iteration of the Crimson can defend its title.
“They have goals in mind. They’re definitely focused on trying their very best to win an Ivy Championship,” he said. “They are focused every day. They are the kind of people that it is just part of what they do, that they just want to keep on working as hard as they can and see how good they can be.”
Harvard’s journey to the Ivy League title will resume after another month-long layoff, as the Crimson will play a spring break match against Keiser on March 17 at PGA Regional Estates in West Palm Beach, Fla.  
–Staff writer Erignacio Fermin Perez can be reached at erignacio.ferminperez@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
After two weeks (but what felt like a month) of grab ‘n’ go dining, we walked back into the dhalls, hearts full and stomachs empty, ready to enjoy some good ole Vegan Cassoulet or Emerald Beef and Vegetable Stir-Fry. Our routine used to be simple: get admonished by the swipe person for not having our HUID ready, grab a silly little tray and a silly little fork and a silly little knife, and pace the dhall much like an overexcited David Malan, looking for whatever seems good that day. But lo and behold, we were met with a glorious sight: the New Salad Bar — and yes, it does merit capitalization, it’s that life changing.
Gone are the days of trying to mix your salad in one of those not-quite-plate-but-it’s-also-not-a-bowl plates and spilling half of it onto the try. No more of trying and failing to create your favorite Sweetgreen salad with only the Mesclun Greens, Cherry Tomatoes, and the “Mediterranean Tuna Salad.” Beyond a brand new look, the Salad Bar of Your Dreams now boasts special toppings such as pickled red onions, flaked parmesan, salmon, fresh olives, green and red peppers, edamame, AND SO MUCH MORE. It’s called flavor.
We’ll overlook the fact that we almost broke our teeth on the frozen (??) avocado, and the chicken has varied throughout the semester. Progress is progress is progress is progress. As applied to the single Harvard men, I’ll take what I can get. If that means consistent proteins, hummus, someone who treats me with respect, feta cheese, and oh, did we mention the pickled red onions, I’ll be happy.
Beyond the pickled red onions <3, what tops off the New Salad Bar are the beautiful, shiny, white bowls. There’s nothing I love seeing more than walking into the dhall and seeing them freshly dishwashed, stacked in all of their glory. It’s a shock that this taken-for-granted piece of kitchenware took so long to debut in our dhalls, but we’re focusing on the present. I can stuff so much salad in them, I’m actually full when I leave lunch!
Salads You Can Try That Aren’t the “North End Chopped”
Try at your own risk.
The “50 Degrees Is So Cold!” A.K.A. The “Californian”
Mesclun greens + Romaine
Avocado (bought at Trader Joe’s)
Tricolor quinoa
Cucumber
Carrots
Edamame
Corn
Sweet potato
Tofu (because you’re a vegan)
Chickpeas
Dressing of choice
The “Crimson Cruiser”
Mesclun greens + Romaine
Tricolor Quinoa
Cherry tomatoes
Pickled red onions
Cranberries
Salmon
Red wine vinegar
Cranberry Balsamic Vinaigrette
The “Department of Harvard Athletics 22 Sweater”
5 chicken breasts
Low fat Italian dressing
2 hard boiled eggs
The “This is my meal twice a day” 
Romaine
Salmon
Green + Red Peppers
Chickpeas
Feta
Edamame
Corn
Pickled Onions
Balsamic Vinaigrette
The “River Run”
9 oz. vodka sauce (sauce optional)
HUDS, we can’t thank you enough for this life-changing gift. Please never revert to the weird half-bowl half-plate contraption we lived with for so long. The day I walk into the dhall and don’t see pickled onions is the day I drop out.
