News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Everything that begins will inevitably end.
This is a concept that I’m sure no one is likely to dispute, outside of philosophical and spiritual contexts. Yet there’s a chasm between knowing and accepting that we often struggle to cross.
It seems common to believe in an idealized “happily ever after,” and likewise to assume that the world being transient only matters for “other” people, that our own lives will remain forever unaffected and unchanged.
I understand. I like the idea of “forever.” I want to stay in an endless present where nothing changes or disappears. I’ve tried to do exactly that, living in a mental bubble oblivious of the future. But like everything that is created, that bubble eventually breaks, and we’re thrown into the question of what it means to accept loss — and not only to accept loss, but to live with it, to move forward in time again.
I think this question resonates most when it comes to the loss of people. People come into our lives, and one day, often unpredictably, they leave. No matter how perfect the relationship once seemed, they’re gone. That is not a truth I’ve wanted to believe, but one that life has taught me throughout the years.
I’ve grown apart from friends; most of the friends I made in my first year here, ones who I assumed would remain until graduation, I don’t see much anymore. (For all the struggling first-years, I didn’t meet my current best friends until junior year.) I’ve had a close friend move to the other side of the world. I’ve lost amazing friends through my own mistakes. I’ve watched an online friend disappear. And more than once, I’ve kneeled over while crying about friends who passed away, so shocked that I physically lost the ability to speak for hours.
And yet, even if the promised happily-ever-after has betrayed our trust: Once upon a time, those people were there. They were there — and the past is the one part of life that the future can never completely change.
I began to treasure the past, because you were there.
The end to a relationship represents a form of grief. Whether a friend or a partner, whether emotionally close or distant, whether they passed away or don’t talk to you anymore, whether permanent or temporary — every parting deserves to be mourned. Because, in the face of loss, we not only grieve the past we shared together, but also the unwound future: the eternity where they won’t be there, our ongoing life in which our memories of them remain frozen in time.
And yet, once we part ways, we have to move on. So we take loss, whatever it is, living day by day, and we move forward. But eventually we come to a fork in the path — maybe anger or guilt that life is still advancing, hesitation to become close to others again, or anxiety in trying what failed before — and moving forward is no longer enough. We also have to choose.
I think each fork in the road presents two options: to internalize the pain of loss and meld it into our worldview, freezing ourselves in time; or to accept our fear of “again” and move on. We can’t resist that fear, because pain never completely leaves us, and to feel pain is to be human. But even when we feel pain, we don’t have to suffer. We suffer when we respond to pain by rejecting reality, by clinging to what we love in an attempt to make it last forever.
I don’t like reality, and I don’t think I can. It hurts so much. But I’ve learned that by not fighting the flow of time, by allowing change and acceptance to coexist, I can move on. And it’s so hard to not only choose but also to walk down the path to acceptance, time after time, and to recognize whenever we’ve gone the wrong way. We’ll never reach the horizon. But only once we walk towards it on our curving path will we begin to feel okay, again.
I learned to live life to the fullest, because you were there.
This abstract theorizing about how to restart our flow of time after losing a relationship, like everything in my column this semester, seeks to offer an answer to questions no one can ever solve. And I know that, in a moment of grief, any attempt to make sense of loss disintegrates. So the practice of radically accepting change and pain in order to move on can’t be an emergency skill, but a way of living life. It doesn’t shield us from pain, but it’s a way of appreciating every moment that we experience and taking no one for granted; of recognizing that recovery, not suffering, makes us stronger; of seeing the infinite possibilities for the future that always persist.
It’s a way of grasping the beauty in the world.
After all, your pain represents your love for the person you lost. We’d do anything to avoid pain; but simultaneously, it’s proof that we’re here, and proof that, once upon a time, they were there. It’s proof that their memory walks with us in the life we lead, by our side.
I promised that I’d walk again, because you were there.
Maybe soon, the time to say goodbye will return. Yet even though emotional bonds inevitably break, and break painfully, that pain is a beginning to a new chapter of life. That doesn’t mean we should willingly embrace the crushing pain that life’s changes inflict, but it does mean that we should do our best not to let the pain turn into suffering. We should live life in the present — not a present with an illusion of eternity, but a present that is open to the future, which will help us to appreciate those we care about in the moment, and to carry their memory onward with us once they’re gone.
The least we can do is send them off with a smile, once we’re ready. A smile that says, “We aren’t together anymore, but I see a new world worth living for, and I’ll take you there; and I became a person who could say that, because you were there.”
Ben T. Elwy ’23 lives in Quincy House. Their column, “The Smiles We Choose,” appears on alternating Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
This staff editorial is part of The Crimson Editorial Board’s 2022 Massachusetts Election Guide. See the full guide here.
Health is a human right.
We mean this in a literal sense: The right to health is, after all, enshrined in the international human rights corpus, and every country (including our own!) has ratified at least one international human rights treaty recognizing this right. However, we cannot achieve widespread societal well-being simply through our actions as individuals. If the Covid-19 pandemic has taught us anything, it is the absolute necessity for our government to protect the health of its citizens and residents through the provision of accessible, effective health care.
A functional society demands it.
Ballot Question Two answers such a demand by mandating that at least 83 percent of a dental insurance company’s revenue be used to cover claims and improve health care — or, in insurance-speak, a minimum medical loss ratio of 83 percent. If dental insurance companies fail to meet this minimum MLR, they will be required to refund the excess premiums to those paying for coverage.
The ballot question is endorsed by both the Massachusetts Dental Society and the American Dental Association, with dentists noting how it has the potential to improve health equity and the quality of dental care for patients.
Currently, Massachusetts has no regulations on the dental insurance MLR. Given the lack of publicly available data on the dental insurance MLR in Massachusetts, it is unclear how much of dental insurance companies’ revenue actually goes toward dental care, as opposed to administrative costs and profits. Passing Ballot Question Two will resolve this issue — not only by mandating a minimum MLR but also by making the data on this key measurement available to the public.
The establishment of a minimum MLR in the realm of health care is not a new concept. Under the Affordable Care Act, large health care insurance providers are required to spend at least 85 percent of their revenue on members’ care. In Massachusetts, which features some of the most rigorous MLR requirements in the nation, that number jumps to 88 percent for small-group health care plans.
We see no reason why minimum MLRs should exist in medical insurance and not in dental insurance. The split between dentistry and medicine in the United States is the product of historical conceptions which framed dentistry as craftsmanship rather than medicine, informing the exclusion of teeth from health care coverage in the 1960s and 70s. Applying regulations to dental insurance as they exist for medical insurance will reaffirm the importance of dental care and oral health as a necessary part of overall well-being; it will also increase accountability in the insurance industry more broadly, with the potential for nationwide reform.
Opponents argue that based on a study commissioned by the National Association of Dental Plans(which, it should be noted, has donated almost $3,000 in opposition to the proposed law), passing Ballot Question Two will increase the cost of premiums by 38 percent. However, safeguards against such increases are already built-in: per the text of the bill, Massachusetts must block any unreasonable increases in premiums, such as those rising above the consumer price index. Additionally, a policy analysis team at Tufts concluded that, on the net, Question Two will likely have little effect on consumer costs.
We hesitate to say that consumer costs will not rise in a Question Two-less Massachusetts. Patients are already burdened under existing dental insurance plans, with costs leaning heavier on patients year after year. Considering this downward spiral, one study commissioned by detractors that affirms the already-expected trend of cost increase is not enough to reject Ballot Question Two.
Opponents may also point to the contentious history of similar bills: The Massachusetts legislature adopted MLR reporting requirements in 2010, before repealing the act in 2012. As detractors note, no law like Question Two exists elsewhere in the nation.
If anything, this provides a reason to move forward with Ballot Question Two. Progress cannot always be linear: From the first American inoculation for smallpox to Romneycare as a precursor for nationwide Obamacare, Massachusetts has historically led health care progress in the United States. Ballot Question Two is another step down the long, and at times tumultuous, path to guarantee health as a human right. Massachusetts can continue leading the nation this fall: Vote Yes on Ballot Question Two.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
This staff editorial is part of The Crimson Editorial Board’s 2022 Massachusetts Election Guide. See the full guide here.
On November 8th, 2022, Massachusetts voters will vote on Ballot Question One, a proposed amendment to the state constitution that would amend the state’s flat income tax by creating a “millionaires tax” surcharge on our highest earners. The Crimson Editorial Board urges voters, at Cambridge and beyond, to vote yes on question one.
The proposed amendment — which already passed through the state’s General Court joint sessions in 2019 and 2021 — would leave the vast majority of Massachusetts residents unscathed. In that sense, its impact would differ substantially from the ominous framing employed by ‘Coalition to Stop the Tax Hike.’ If approved, question one would change the marginal tax rate of residents making over $1 million annually by adding a 4 percent surtax on income above the threshold. As of today, our state employs a (highly regressive) flat 5 percent income tax; residents with incomes below $1 million would still face that 5 percent rate, while the state’s few millionaire earners would be subject to a 9 percent rate on all earnings above the threshold.
To put that into perspective: For anyone lucky enough to earn, say, $1.5 million, the $500,000 above the million dollar mark would now be taxed at a 9 percent rate, increasing their tax bill by $20,000, with the additional state revenue earmarked for public education, infrastructure, and transportation expenses.
We find question one’s tax increases not only unobjectionable but blatantly beneficial — if not for a tiny handful of Beacon Hill high earners, for everyone around them who, through their consumption and labor, tacitly enables such exorbitant earnings. If a meager 4 percent rise in your marginal tax rate can increase your state-level tax bill by a figure equivalent to others’ annual income, odds are you should probably be taxed.
Question one’s impact must be contextualized within Massachusetts’ heavily unequal society. For the average Massachusetts resident, who has a median household income of just over $84,000, one million annual dollars is a distant figure, one that will not be reached within their lifetimes — no matter how much deeply delusional conceptions of America’s upwards mobility suggest otherwise. Indeed, only an estimated 20,000 to 25,000 out of almost seven million bay staters. Less than seven out of every 1,000 Massachusetts households would face any sort of tax hike, yet the remaining 993 (plus, presumably, the newly taxed seven) would experience a substantial increase in available funding for public services.
For those with these sorts of exorbitant incomes, the increased tax will certainly be felt, but it will hardly be meaningfully detrimental to their economic status. That hasn’t stopped advocates for the oppressed wealthy from furthering disingenuous arguments. They include, among others, the concern that ‘one-time’ millionaires, who report an inflated income after the sale of a property, will face an oppressive tax rate on their nest eggs. What about the endearing, not well-off elderly who just so happen to own a million-dollar house, opponents ask? Who on earth will protect them from our tyrannical fiscal system?
As it turns out, the answer is the system itself. The first flaw within that reasoning is the fact that owning a million-dollar nest egg already qualifies you as extremely well-off compared to the remainder of your state (and global) peers, and makes us comparatively less likely to be overly concerned about your socioeconomic survival. More crucially, Massachusetts doesn’t tax all income from property sales, but only the capital gains accrued (the difference between the purchase and sale price). Even if the difference between your purchase and sale price exceeds $1 million (which, again, we must emphasize will hardly be the case for the vast majority of residents), Massachusetts exempts the first $500,000 capital gains from taxation for married couples, and half that amount for single filers. If you and your partner bought a stunning Boston property for $1 million, and are now selling it for $2 million, only $500,000 of your net profit would be eligible for state taxation. Unless you make another half a million annually, the sale of your $2 million house would not push you into the increased-tax bracket — and, as a board, we feel comfortable encouraging the state to tax those who do in fact exceed those generous boundaries.
Anyone with combined incomes and property-sale capital gains (past the standard exemptions) above $1 million is, in our view, wealthy enough to be subject to additional taxation for the sake of increasing societal welfare.
As members of the overwhelmingly wealthy, overwhelmingly liberal Harvard community, we feel the need to emphasize the broader dynamics at play in the ongoing debate. We fear that the current debate is representative of national trends and that the reticence to vote yes by some of our fellow residents embodies concerning tendencies within our changing coalition. To state the obvious: As parties realign according to education, as they have in the United States, we run the risk that well-off, presumably liberal places like our own community engage in performative class politics while protecting their own interests. That might entail, for example, loudly arguing for taxing the rich while setting the bar for “rich” at such a high level that people who are objectively better off than 99 percent of the US population are excluded.
Tweeting about taxing Elon Musk and Jeff Bezos will always be easier than accepting taxes on your own, educated, liberal but objectively very well-off peers. But if your income on any given year is above a million, you are undeniably wealthy — and we are in favor of taxing that income to maximize social well-being. No meaningful welfare state will be built on the backs of billionaires alone; progressive taxes targeting “low-level” millionaires serve a crucial social purpose.
What is not harmful to the wealthy few might thus be hugely beneficial for the majority. Experts project that this small increase in taxes could procure $1.2 to $2 billion a year to invest back into the lives of all Massachusetts residents’ public infrastructure and education. If after the amendment’s passage its execution does not go as residents would like, there is always room for adjustment. But we still would rather pass it now, reap the substantial budgetary benefits, and make necessary adjustments later, than shut it down entirely.
Our reasoning here goes further than the frankly impressive benefits the state could reap if it puts the extra revenue to good use. Even beyond potential public investments, we are of the belief that taxing the wealthy is, generally speaking, good. Within a republic of supposedly equal citizens, excessive differences in income and wealth can create sharply unequal hierarchies and increase an elite’s power, until the presumed equality is limited in practical impact across every sphere — educational, political, and social. Taxation of the very wealthy is a good and necessary remedy.
Every new tax will have its critics. Some will point to resulting decreases in economic activity — though this tax will increase revenues enough to offset such decreases. Some will point to sympathetic edge-case hypotheticals — though we struggle to muster much sympathy for seven-figure homeowners who hope to escape the epithet of “millionaire” on a technicality.
We do wish that there was a better way to guarantee that additional revenue raised through this tax increase resulted in increased spending only on its stated priorities of public education and infrastructure. But this is a minor quibble that attaches broadly to almost any tax measure. The potential benefits of this amendment far outweigh the risks.
If spent well, additional revenue could prove transformative. We could have a functional orange line! We could decrease the funding gap between affluent suburban schools and majority-minority school districts that have too often been financially neglected by the state and disadvantaged by a system of local-tax-funded education. The stunning asymmetry between Massachusetts’ elite higher education and some of its struggling public schools needs to be rectified.
A vote against question one would represent a gross misunderstanding of the extent of inequality and suffering in a state where the average Black household wealth in the capital was estimated at a meager $8 in 2015 (that of white households was roughly a quarter of a million dollars). The beneficiaries are numbered by the millions, across generations, and stand to gain infinitely more than what the millionaires (even the ‘one-time’ millionaires) will lose.
On those grounds, out of solidarity with our entire state and the challenges our fellow residents face, we urge Massachusetts voters to vote yes on ballot question one.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
It all began with a punch. One windy autumn night, a mysterious card with a stamped bull insignia was slipped under my door. I read the note. Wednesday, 7 p.m., 1 Plympton St. Cocktail attire.
I showed up at the A.D. on time. I knocked, and a man who looked like the type to peel the crust off a peanut butter and jelly sandwich opened the door and asked me for my last name. He seemed impressed when I answered: WASPington.
“I knew your brother,” he said.
“Which one?” I replied.
The hour passed by in a haze of Harvard introductions and clinking beer bottles. I met four guys named Sailor and befriended a taxidermied deer head. When the conversation died down, the president brought us out to the courtyard.
That’s when I saw you.
I’d seen all the tweets, but nothing compared to the real thing: There you were, leaning against the brick wall, a sly devil; tall, dark, and handsome. We locked eyes and it was like drinking from a cold spring. I looked away and it was like dying of thirst.
Two weeks later, I’d made it to round two. This one was less formal — a low-key, boozy kickback in the courtyard. I wore my finest salmon-colored quarter-zip. When I entered, chairs were arranged in a circle around a fire pit. Beers were distributed; eager punches sucked up.
That night we had our first conversation. I took the chair closest to you; at one point I leaned back against your trunk. You blushed in response; your leaves were turning red as the weather got colder. You dropped a leaf down to me and I held it like a hand. We agreed that what we had was real — no situationship, no post-party hookup. We agreed not to see other people.
During the two weeks between rounds, I couldn’t wait to be on the other side of that brick wall. One day I thought about scaling it, but the barbed wire on top deterred me since I was wearing Burberry slacks and I was running late to de Blasio’s speech at the IOP.
It’s hard to tell your friends that you’re in love with the tree in the A.D. courtyard. The follow-up questions are where it gets most awkward — people want to know who pays for dinner, how we “do it,” who’s on top. I tell them that’s our business, but they have a point. Every night we spend together, I feel like we’re creating something entirely new.
As Héloïse of Celine Sciamma’s “Portrait of a Lady on Fire” once wisely wondered, “Do all lovers feel they’re inventing something?”
Bad news, though. Last night, no third-round invitation came. I think I’ve been cut. I should be more worried — my dad said that if this happened he’d do to me what he did to my childhood dog Sparky (donate me to the Cornell Agricultural School). But I don’t care. All I can think about is you.
I have an idea.
Next Wednesday night. 10 p.m. 1 Plympton St. No attire. Just you. Me. The forklift that I am licensed to drive because Dad doesn’t trust non-WASPingtons to move his Egyptian sculptures between tax-free airport holding zones. I’m busting you out of there.
Tell me you’re in. I’m out on a limb here, baby.
Sections
In 1989, rafts made of wooden planks and milk cartons stormed the Charles River for the last time. Eggs, tomatoes, and other food littered the water — the remnants of combat. These raft races, sponsored by Adams House and co-founded by William F. Lee ’72 — the former Senior Fellow of the Harvard Corporation — featured a “funky flotilla” each spring until 1990, when then-Dean of Students Archie C. Epps III ended the event “for reasons of liability.”
“I have no idea what happened,” says Maria C. Mendez ’91, who raced the year prior. “But it could have easily been any one of us that got hurt — or, any student could get hurt — because the rafts tended to not last for very long, and they just came apart in the water.”
Any student — undergraduate or graduate — and even alumni could sign up to race and self-proclaim their affiliation, often to represent their house, but sometimes to represent their campus organization. To construct their rafts, racers collected materials from across campus. Some made intricate designs, while others threw together a hodgepodge of items.
“We were just making a raft from just probably gigs and gags and whatever we could find,” Mendez says. “I don’t think there was any scientific computation before we started building the raft. We were using pretty much anything that we had leftover from anything.”
For his first race in 1977, David F. Wilson ’75 joined his pinball teammates to build a raft with a pinball machine; they managed to buy an affordable one and hauled it to the river on race day. However, they discovered that the box was too top-heavy, and they had to make last-minute changes in order for the raft to float. For his second race the following year, Wilson entered with Frank M. Kulash ’76, representing Currier House, and they created their raft from milk jugs.
“That raft, we named ‘The Mystery Floating Chairs,’ built with the flotation of five-gallon milk jugs from the cafeteria,” Wilson says. “We collected enough of those and did the math — I think it’s like seven pounds of flotation per gallon — on how many of these things we would need. To fulfill the vision, we put them out on pontoons way away from the central area of the raft. The central area of the raft was simply two chairs.”
Others just hoped to float long enough to wreak havoc, as Daniel W. Gil ’79 reported in a Crimson article from 1976: “Kirkland House, whose three kamikaze crafts — loaded with smoke bombs, four cases of dry ice and rotten fruit — never made it to the starting line. Their plans to capture the ‘senseless violence’ award went down in smoke and bubbles from the dry ice crates.”
Over the race’s 20-year duration, the awards changed, but the goofy spirit remained — from “first to sink tastefully,” originally named the Huckleberry Finn Award, to the “most-polluted crew member,” awarded in 1976 to a Mower resident. “His raft, the ‘Detente,’ had sunk after 20 feet and he had spent the rest of the race consuming an entire bottle of Scotch,” Gil reported.
That same year, a team donning red “Ve Ri Crass” shirts won the “Ronald Reagan” award for leaning furthest to the right: the crew of “15 drunk students and one not-so-reluctant proctor” managed to cling onto their raft after falling into the river multiple times and “battling a dog who had made off with an oar.”
During the inaugural race in 1971, the “most unsportsmanlike boat” award celebrated creative malpractice. Lee, the co-founder of the race, remembers that a group from Harvard Business School won the award.
“The raft had a long, long, long, long rope, and they stationed a group of very strong Business School students down near the bridge at the finish line, who basically pulled the boat the entire distance,” he says.
As the years went on, roughhousing became a tradition. Lee recalls no instances of spectators or participants throwing objects at the original 1971 race, adding that “the idea that the head of Adams House was sitting on the bridge to judge who is coming over first, I think, caused people to be on better behavior.”
Six years later, Kulash remembers that the race was still “very light-hearted” but involved “a lot of trying to sink other people’s rafts, throwing things like eggs and water balloons at other competitors.”
Larger houses often organized larger boats that had the capacity for “warfare concepts.” “Mayhem and sabotage were actually an important feature of the event,” Wilson says.
In their early years, the races attracted a decent crowd. Lee remembers having at least 12 rafts in the first year — others may have raced but never finished — and a sizable group of spectators that he thinks “enjoyed themselves,”, especially in the beautiful weather.
The year that Wilson raced with Kulash, Wilson recalls the event remained just as popular as the original race, with at least a dozen rafts and “quite a few people watching. "I think partly that warfare made it more interesting,” he says.
However, in its final years, the races generated less excitement. By 1989, Mendez does not remember having many spectators — generally, just the friends of the participants.
Still, the event’s purpose remained the same. In 1971, coming off the heels of political unrest and student activism on campus, the students experienced “many, many issues beyond the norm,” Lee says. He envisioned the raft race simply as “something that was just fun for the community.”
Even as the event’s popularity dwindled almost two decades later, Mendez remembers the races as a bonding experience. “Yes, it was for fun, but it was just one more thing to have pride in your house and come together from different groups within the house,” she says.
Sections
In the spring of 2004, Kirkland House residents opened their doors to the smell of dead fish. An ill-fated HUDS meal? No — an act of war. During the second of three inter-house wars from 1999 to 2012, Matherites attacked their enemies in Kirkland by placing 250 dead goldfish in their door boxes.
What force on Earth could compel someone to act so aggressively? To anyone not living in Kirkland, the answer was simple: House loyalty. During at least three separate points in the history of Harvard College, one line from the classic Harvard introduction could mean the difference between peace and war.
The first war commenced in 1999, when Adams enforced their already-stringent interhouse dining restrictions by placing white stickers on their students’ HUIDs. Offended by their exclusion, the Pforzheimer House Committee attempted a vote to ban Adams residents from entering their dining hall. The vote failed, but was enough to provoke a declaration of war from Adams. A series of pranks ensued.
“We locked their gates with bike locks, which I’m sure now is probably a fire code violation,” Manuel A. Garcia ’00, then the Pfoho House Committee President, recalls. Pfoho residents also stole a gong from the Adams dining hall, and the war raged on. Pfoho residents told freshmen that Annenberg was closed, sending a rush of them into the Adams dining hall for brunch. Adams residents posted signs of war and began calling themselves “Pfadams.”
These shenanigans sometimes had consequences, though, Garcia remembers. One of the dining hall workers was injured.
Despite the pranks, there was “no animosity” between Pfoho and Adams residents, Garcia says. The week-long war eventually culminated in a tournament of three athletic events — a football game, a tug-of-war match, and a drag race. Pfoho emerged victorious.
At the time, the war carried an additional meaning for residents of the house.
Garcia was part of the second Harvard class to enter the housing system through the randomized lottery process, a 1999 reform aimed at promoting fairness. Before randomization, students could rank their House preferences, perpetuating house-specific reputations. For instance, Eliot was the preppy house, Garcia recalls, and Adams was the artsy one.
But with the randomized system, this sense of shared identity was fading. The war provided a unique opportunity to counteract the decay. “I think it definitely brought people closer,” Garcia says.
After the House War of 1999, all remained peaceful until 2004, when a former Mather resident detailed his reasons for transferring to Kirkland on the House mailing list, following a larger trend of students moving out of Mather.
“It got to the point where there [were] only two or three senior blocking groups in Mather,” Daniel E. Kafie ’05 told The Crimson at the time.
Mather HoCo chair Hunter A. Maats ’04 was “appalled” by the “tasteless” email, and warfare ensued. Soon, Mather demanded that Kirkland residents return the Adams gong, Kirkland residents found goldfish lying dead outside their doors, and Cabot had allied with Mather. Dunster joined the fray as well, stealing Eliot House’s banner. Unlike in 1999, this war was largely one-sided and faded out.
Just eight years later in 2012, tensions flared again with the ever-belligerent Adams when the voting system for Adams’s new mascot was declassified. Currier residents flooded the form with invalid votes for the acorn option, suggesting that acorns would grow into the “Currier tree.”
Antone Martinho-Truswell ’13, the former Adams Hoco co-chair of special projects, recalls of the previous wars: “It was fresh in institutional memory that this was a thing that could happen, but no one present had ever experienced it. So we thought, well, you know, why not?” So once again, they charged into battle.
The war of 2012, in a departure from years past, was predominantly based in propaganda and a complex system of alliances.
Adams banned the residents of Currier House from eating in their dining hall. Pfoho House, the undisputed victor in the previous war against Adams, was the first to take sides, backing a fellow member of the quad squad in the way only those who are trauma bonded do.
Pfoho issued its modern twist on the Monroe Doctrine — called the “Mario Doctrine” after its building manager — asserting allegiance to Currier and a willingness to retaliate should Adams strike against Currier. What followed was a veritable avalanche of support for Currier in the form of additional alliances with Cabot and Mather, forming what they called the Axis of Evil Lottery Results.
Adams did have a friend in the midst of this dark chapter — a half-hearted but well-intentioned Winthrop House. Unfortunately, Winthrop proved to be an unstable ally as it attempted to declare war on a neutral Lowell House, then prematurely withdrew from the war altogether.
The only actual act of hostility that Martinho-Truswell recalls was the Axis of Evil attempting to invade the Adams dining hall. “We got wind of this beforehand, so before they came, we decorated the dining hall as a House transfer information session,” he recalls with a hint of satisfaction. Needless to say, the Currierites were humbled upon arrival. From there, the war fizzled out.
Now a dean at St. Paul’s College in Australia, Martinho-Truswell credits the War of 2012 and life at Adams in general for pointing him towards a career of building community among university students. “My experience at Adams was sufficiently strong in House culture that it’s inspired a career working in residential colleges,” he says.
It’s been 10 years of peace. Pfohosers and Cronkhidors dine peacefully at Adams House each day. Kirkland and Mather have graciously agreed to tie for worst River House. Adams did finally settle on the acorn as their mascot.
But have we known peace for too long? Could a war boost modern House morale?
“I haven’t seen anything like this lately,” says Mario E. Leon — the namesake of the Mario Doctrine and the Pfoho building manager to this day — noting a change in students’ affiliation for their House over the past few years. “I think the pandemic didn’t help, having two years without the community build-up.”
Maybe a new war is just what some houses need. “I’m sure now it would probably be looked down upon to be launching a war on a house,” Garcia says, “but I think it was a great House spirit event.”
—Magazine writer Jem K. Williams can be reached at jem.williams@thecrimson.com.
—Magazine writer Kyle L. Mandell can be reached at kyle.mandell@thecrimson.com.
Sections
As the leaves mature into arresting hues of red and gold and the annual pumpkin spice latte plague kicks into high gear, we herald the arrival of Sad Girl Autumn.
Sad Girl Autumn, as defined by the TikToks and Pinterest boards that emerge from hibernation this time of year, involves donning thick cardigans and a pair of Doc Martens, binging “Gilmore Girls,” and curling up with a book while listening to raindrops patter across your windowpane. However, in a departure from more dispassionate fall-themed cognates, such as dark academia and Christian Girl Autumn, Sad Girl Autumn coziness is embedded in melancholy.
But how is it that this beautiful season earns the epithet of “sad”?
The answer is simple: The sad girl aesthetic is not an annually adopted aesthetic, but rather, has come to define the culture we live in.
Sad Girl Autumn is simply a seasonal flavor of something we’ve become familiar with; it’s the same post-pretty cry mirror selfies posted on finstas year-round, but overlaid with a warm filter of creamy browns and oranges. It’s still the act of watching Sofia Coppola movies with a drink, but switching out the glass of red wine for a mug of Earl Grey. The Sad Girl aesthetic does not go out of season, but instead adapts to it.
The term “Sad Girl Autumn” was first popularized by Taylor Swift’s 2021 release, “All Too Well (Sad Girl Autumn Version),” a moody, pared-down acoustic arrangement of the original song from her album “Red.” Indeed, listening to the nostalgia of a Taylor Swift breakup tune, the haunting ache of Phoebe Bridgers’s finger-picked guitar, and, of course, Lana Del Rey’s breathy ballads, is an essential element to curating the Sad Girl aesthetic, with or without its autumnal flair.
On my Spotify recommended page, I’ve been occasionally (frequently) assaulted with the uber-popular playlist “sad girl starter pack.” It’s a Spotify-curated playlist with a regularly rotating selection of approximately 75 songs. As of publication, these songs range from the objectively sad (“It’s Not Just Me, It’s Everybody,” by Weyes Blood, a song about the alienation of living in modern society), to the dubiously sad (“Miracles,” by Alex G, a song that, indeed, reflects on the miracles of life). The one throughline I can identify is that they’re all generally mellow lo-fi songs which can be nebulously categorized as “indie pop.”
This is, I believe, the intention behind the playlist. It’s not meant to provide catharsis by evoking our most painful memories; rather, it’s meant to create an enduring mood. It’s an unchanging landscape set to the lowest frequency; it’s a solipsistic sadness that is static, and, therefore, comforting. It’s a melancholy we don’t quite want to shake off.
Beyond its sonic and visual appeal, some people value the Sad Girl aesthetic for its role in reframing sexual politics. In 2014, artist and critic Audrey Wollen made waves with her “Sad Girl Theory,” which asserts that the demonstration of female suffering is “an act of protest” against systems of masculine power.
In an interview with i-D, Wollen said, “I think that a sad girl’s self-destruction, no matter how silent or commonplace, is a strategy for subverting those systems, for making the implicit violence visceral and visible, for implicating us all in her devastation.”
She continues, “There’s this ethos of excess and approval, making it cool and fun to be a girl. The problem is: It isn’t really cool and fun to be a girl.”
In The Independent, Merideth Clark poses a similar argument, contending that, unlike trends like the “clean girl aesthetic,” Sad Girl Autumn is inclusive and “reflective of a culture — music, movies, fashion, fragrances — that celebrates melancholy, nostalgia, and unapologetically female expressions of emotion.”
The implication is not only that melancholia belongs to women, but that therein rests the inclusivity of the Sad Girl aesthetic. This notion of radically inclusive feminine pain is echoed in the beloved Netflix dramedy “Sex Education.” In the penultimate episode of the second season, in an attempt to discover the identity of a graffiti artist who defaced the girls’ locker room, essentially every notable female character is placed in detention together, trapped until the culprit confesses or until they complete a joint assignment given to them by a teacher.
Their task? To define what “binds [them] together as women.” In a room of six women who differ not only in personality, but in sexuality, race, and socioeconomic status, they inevitably find their only common denominator to be their harassment at the hands of men. They leave the school sharing knowing glances and subdued smiles. Of course, their friendship won’t last the episode; it’s like it’s “The Breakfast Club” if it failed a fucked-up sort of Bechdel Test.
To this point, both Clark’s and Wollen’s celebration of the Sad Girl aesthetic lies in their belief that it is a testament to what it means to be a woman – that is, to be a subject of violence and oppression.
On this point, I don’t disagree with Wollen. Given the artifice of the gender binary, it has become difficult to define “womanhood” in any concrete way. You could argue in the same vein as Wollen and define womanhood by what it is not; to be a woman is to not be guarded against sexual and domestic violence. It is to not be in control of how your body is seen, used, and commodified by society. It is to not be respected on the grounds of your ability, but rather, measured by your adherence to societal beauty standards.
But the aestheticization — dare I say fetishization — of female pain reaffirms the conditions that made girls sad in the first place. Simply put, the Sad Girl reeks of complacency. She takes the sadness that has been handed down for generations and makes a home in it; she dresses it in a turtleneck and blankets it in dreamy, wistful soundscapes. She makes us see her sadness in all its glory without any real appeal for change. She doesn’t seem to want it — she’d live her life with the “sad girl starter pack” playing in the background in perpetuity.
Yes, the sadness is visible through hashtags, but it is not in any way subversive; rather than challenging the systems that oppress her, the Sad Girl beautifies her suffering, and represents a very white kind of beauty. Need I mention the sad-girl indie Swift-Bridgers-Del Rey trifecta again? While we can talk ad nauseam about the radical inclusivity of feminine pain, we don’t see this inclusivity reflected in all those aesthetic mood boards because it is typically whiteness that we categorize as aesthetic.
And, of course, the commercialization of the Sad Girl has erased any kind of depth from her complicated identity.
The “sad girl starter pack,” at least, has nothing to do with the injuries incurred by the patriarchy and has everything to do with “sitting on your green velvet couch, thinking of her <3,” as the Spotify playlist description currently reads. This description changes often, though the meaning stays the same. A few months ago, it read: “sapphic songs that described your music taste as ‘yearning.’” The cover shows two silhouetted women making out.
Maybe the sapphic spin is a half-hearted attempt to move on from defining women by their relations with men (though we still can’t let go of the need to define them through their relationships). Regardless, it’s a far cry from Wollen’s Sad Girl.
In an article explaining Sad Girl Autumn for Elle subscribers, Ariana Yaptangco asks: “Wait, why are we sad again?” and answers, “There are so many things to choose from! Sad that the world is on fire, literally and figuratively. Sad that summer is over. Sad it's getting cold out. Sad it’s cuffing season and you’re still single. Sad your summer fling has ended. Sad the year is pretty much over. The possibilities are endless!”
At the end of Yaptangco’s article is a sad girl starter pack that you can shop from. The cheapest item is a $60 candle.
Aside from the glaringly false equivalence of the end of the world with the end of summer, the positioning of these sources of sadness as hot new accessories falls in line with the kind of thinking that leads to a corporate playlist called “sad girl starter pack.” It’s a sadness with all the glamor, but without the teeth, bought at the low price of $9.99 a month. Frankly, sad sells.
And while we do a disservice to ourselves by glamorizing and selling sadness, we also do a disservice to the artists whose art we classify as “Sad Girl music.”
Perhaps Lucy Dacus, who has two songs featured in the “sad girl starter pack,” put it best when she tweeted: “Sadness can be meaningful but I got a bone to pick with the ‘sad girl indie’ genre, not the music that gets labeled as that, but the classification and commodification and perpetual expectation of women’s pain, also I don’t think my songs are sad, anyways good morning.”
Why are we asking Elle for reasons to be sad? Are we donning the Sad Girl cable-knit sweater for some illusion of emotional depth? Because we do just the opposite when we create identities out of non-descriptive platitudes. We flatten the peaks and valleys of life, minimizing its fluorescent ecstasy, its volatile passions, its frivolous absurdity. We forget the peace of taking a morning walk and the uncomplicated beauty of an oak tree changing colors, shedding old leaves.
— Associate Magazine Editor Amber H. Levis can be reached at amber.levis@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @amberlevis.
Sections
A new bug is joining the shelves of the Museum of Comparative Zoology’s 7-million-strong insect collection, one made not of antennae and exoskeleton, but of wires and lenses: “Lightning Bug,” a state-of-the-art imaging rig that hopes to expedite the MCZ’s decades-long effort to digitize its massive specimen collection.
Digitization at the MCZ began in the early 1990s when Edward O. Wilson, the MCZ’s curator of entomology at the time, began by typing labels into spreadsheets. Methods advanced in 1995 when the then newly-minted curator Brian D. Farrell kickstarted the accumulation of image data by scanning slide photos of the insect specimens. This process was expedited in 1999 when Nikon released its first digital camera, the D1. Since then, as technology continues to improve, the MCZ’s digitization effort has gained momentum.
Birthed from a multidisciplinary collaboration between Harvard, Argonne National Laboratory and a robotics team from Yale, Lightning Bug (aptly named after the efficiency of its insect counterpart) comprises a stage of cameras with a chamber where the specimen will sit. The robotic machinery of the stage allows the cameras to automatically image the specimen at different angles and heights. From there, a computer imaging software developed by Argonne uses artificial intelligence to stitch these images into a 3D reconstruction of the specimen.
The imaging process includes taking photographs of an insect’s top, sides, and underbelly, according to Crystal A. Maier, the MCZ’s associate curator who has taken the lead on the Lightning Bug collaboration. “By capturing images all around the insect and reconstructing a 3D model of it, you then have a complete picture of the size and shape of that insect right in front of you on the computer.”
The value of Lightning Bug, however, lies not only in capturing the insect itself but in preserving its label, which provides a description of when, where and how a species was collected.
“[The labels] may be all that we know about the species because it may have only been collected once,” says Maier. “[Digitizing labels] is a really good way to help us understand how a species evolved and where it might be in the world.”
The usual process of transcribing biological data from the labels to a database is long and tedious, she says. Because the label is pinned directly beneath a specimen, museum staff typically have to remove the label from each sample before imaging the insect and typing information from its label into the database.
Lightning Bug offers a streamlined solution. The new system, which arrived last month, can take images of the label at different angles without the need to remove it. Combining images using AI software will produce an easily readable image of the entire label. By reducing the label imaging time from minutes to seconds, Lightning Bug will speed up the flow of specimen data by about five times, according to Farrell.
For researchers such as Waring “Buck” Trible, who leads a lab that studies the evolution of ant morphology in different social castes, the influx and accessibility of imaging and label data could foreshadow new discoveries in his field.
Trible compares his study of phenotypic evolution and ant caste to “the way that alchemists were studying chemistry.”
“Bringing in diverse people who have different viewpoints and making the data as accessible to as many people as possible is really important because we don't really know what we're doing,” he says. “It's something where creativity and outside perspectives could be the thing that actually pulls this thing out of the dark ages.”
But even as the time needed to digitize each specimen has slimmed, digitizing the entire insect collection remains a distant feat. After more than two decades of effort, the MCZ has labels for a mere five percent of this collection, of which an even smaller portion has associated imaging data. If the MCZ team were to image insects at its current pace of ten minutes per specimen, it would take over 300 years before the final bug makes its way into the database — almost the same time it has taken to amass the collection itself. Lightning Bug would make this much faster.
“My dream would be to have the entire process automated from start to finish,” says Maier, who envisions Lightning Bug using a robotic arm to move specimens in and out of the imaging area while a computer automatically reads labels into the database.
Even with this accelerated workflow, completion is not necessarily the goal. “You can’t think in terms of finishing,” Farrell says. “You have to think in terms of information per hour spent.” The thought process behind choosing which of the millions of specimens to image is far from random. Instead, the MCZ prioritizes projects like David Rockefeller’s ’36 personal beetle collection, or Trible’s fire ants.
For Farrell, at the end of the day, digitization is all about accessibility. “Information only gains value by being shared,” he says. And with the addition of Lightning Bug to the MCZ lab team, the hope is that sharing can only become easier.
Sections
In elementary school, I found pure joy in roller skating. Nowhere else was bliss and dreaming greater than on rented wheels at the Tyngsboro Roller Kingdom a few Massachusetts towns over. Skating was my ultimate solace, poetry in motion — that is, until it started to feel like a prison.
I approached skating the way a child at the playground barrels fearlessly down the slide — with complete faith, wholly committed from head to toe. Whether it was a friend’s birthday or family outing that brought me to the rink, I’d push off and push off with all my might until I was gliding so fast the world around me blurred. I loved the thrill that consumed me with each stride — the feeling of treading the earth so effortlessly and unencumbered.
But what kept me returning was the mental clarity that came with being suspended in speed, drawing my own line on a beige floor already marked by the imprints and stories of thousands. No outside worry could break my concentration: it was just me, my skates, and the path I wanted to take on that endless swatch of hardwood. Within that oval rink, against the backdrop of some disco song, freedom seemed to glow as bright as the neon lights and arcade games that filled the venue.
I don’t remember when the magic faded: it just did. And I don’t know why exactly, but I figure it had something to do with the repetition. You can only circle an area so many times before the joy dulls into monotony. Before the color washes away and the songs, played for the hundredth time, suffocate you. Before the skates become shackles.
I wouldn’t touch another pair for over a decade.
Growing up, only my fascination with family history could rival my love of skating. I was the little boy tugging on Grandma's dress when everyone was fast asleep: "Bà Ngoai, please tell me one more." I found myself sitting among my family's mothers and wives, absorbing their strength as they spun tales, laughed, and gossiped over games of backgammon and Vietnamese lô tô.
In my family, there are twenty-one South-Vietnamese war refugees — boat people from the Exodus of 1978. They all conquered violence, persecution, and the worst fear imaginable — yet not a single one escaped the ten-year-old wielding a banana microphone and fumbling with his Questions notebook. Like skating, though, that legacy started to bound me.
War survived in my father’s sporadic outbursts and my mother’s periodic breakdowns. When I announced my sophomore year of high school that I’d won a full scholarship to study abroad, I wasn’t met with acclaim but alarm. Relatives told me I’d be killed by the country’s government or taken prisoner by extremists. Suddenly, being the son of refugees meant being forever tied to an exact moment in time. It meant fear of almost everything and everyone spreading through family branches like a wildfire fueled by racing winds. I was back in the rink.
This past summer, I studied peace and comparative conflict resolution in Ireland and Northern Ireland on a fellowship aimed at tracing the travels of the American abolitionist Frederick Douglass. Between visiting the peace walls that divided Protestants and Catholics in Belfast and navigating the Luas en route to Riverdance at Dublin’s Gaiety Theatre, I had the opportunity to meet Kenneth B. Morris Jr., a direct descendent of both Frederick Douglass and Booker T. Washington. In hours-long conversations, he’d share with me the joys and burdens of carrying such a powerful name — a pressure so great that his grandfather, Frederick Douglass III, took his own life. When my peers invited me to skate with them one Friday afternoon, I sat at the edge of the rink, reflecting on what Ken told me about grappling with his history.
“The future depends on how we carry it forth, Ryan. I never tried on his shoes because they’ll always be too big,” he said, his eyes glinting with a generations-old wisdom. “Don’t ignore the voices of your ancestors calling on you, but walk in your own shoes to a greater tomorrow.”
Something within me stirred, and instead of entering the rink, I carried my skates outside. After thirty minutes of practice in the rink’s parking lot — compensation for my ten-year hiatus — I flew down the cobbled streets of Dublin, weaving between cars and pedestrians. Wind blasting past my face, I felt like I did ten years ago — boundless. It was so familiar yet completely new. So simple, yet revelatory. Never before had I skated in the sunshine.
For the longest time, the figure of the refugee was static to me — like the subject of a vintage photograph, gaping from the confines of a black-and-white plane. And I thought that doomed me to skating over and over in an endless circle, my future enclosed within a rink. But I’ve come to understand that I can navigate my legacy within my own terrain. I don’t have to choose between living life entirely adjacent to my family or divorcing it completely. Like the refugee who transcends boundaries — who makes anywhere his home — I can live within the gaps between places. I can skate outside.
And just like that, my family’s stories once again became wells of inspiration and courage. Every time I’d study an extra hour or sacrifice going out with friends, I summoned the tenacity of Ba, Dad, who swam literal rivers to get to school, one hand battling the current and the other holding his books high. I beat the anxiety of leading projects by unleashing the fearlessness of my grandmother, who organized an uprising of village women when their children were imprisoned for playing near a protest site. When peers complained about boredom, my mind soared to the ingenuity of my uncles who braved monotonous months in refugee camps with makeshift box-and-plywood ping-pong tables, and I encouraged everyone to invent our own game to pass the time. This past empowers me today in pursuing journalism; my stories aren’t just about war, but about everything from disabilities to fatherhood, feminism to exam stress, incarceration camps to growing up gay in Moroccan society. My stories have become — unequivocally — my own.
On the first day of sophomore move-in, I strapped on a comically large pair of inlines that I bought upon my return from Ireland: the Powerslide One Zoom 100 Freeskates. Descending in the elevator, I balanced my weight on the giant wheels. And as the blue light beeped from six to five to four, I envisioned the path that lay before me — some winding line through the hordes of tourists in the Old Yard, along the length of the tree-lined Charles River, and into the storied neighborhoods of Cambridge. Exiting the building, I took a deep breath and passed by a friend asking where I was headed.
“I’ll figure it out,” I yelled as I pushed off onto the pavement, into the blurs beyond.
—News staff writer Ryan H. Doan-Nguyen can be reached at ryan.doannguyen@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @ryandoannguyen.
Sections
In a box lined with crinkled tissue paper lies renowned Harvard philosopher and psychologist William James. Yellowing plaster one centimeter thick preserves his receding hairline and strong brow and makes permanent the wrinkles under his shut eyes. His beard, bushy and full in life, is now a lump obscuring his mouth, rendering him doubly silent.
James’s face is just one of the so-called death masks kept in the special reserves collection of Houghton Library, three levels below the main floor. Before entering the collection himself, James had gifted Harvard a death mask of 17th century French mathematician, Blaise Pascal. His family turned the gifter into the gifted when they donated James’s death mask to Harvard, after years of using it to cast duplicates, like shadows of a shadow.
Along with James, Harvard’s archives also contain the death masks of Dante Alighiere, James Joyce, Edward Estlin Cummings, Napoleon Bonaparte, and Walt Whitman, whose chest hair was caught in the plaster.
The practice of preserving likenesses of the deceased dates back to ancient Egypt, when sculpted masks were created during funeral ceremonies. Creating death masks using cast plaster molds first started in the Middle Ages and continued well into the 20th century. The idea was to create as accurate a likeness as possible to immortalize celebrated figures, usually men.
The heads, of which there are over a dozen, were almost all given as gifts to Harvard.. Housed across the Houghton, Schlesinger, and Widener libraries, the Harvard Art Museums, and the Harvard Law School, the death masks aren’t a unified collection. Instead, the ghostly impressions are kept wherever their owner’s papers or books are housed, adding something tactile to two-dimensional sources.
Leslie A. Morris, Gore Vidal Curator of Modern Books and Manuscripts, describes the death masks as “rather ghostly.” “They can seem to float in a way,” she says. “It’s just a disembodied head.”
Though James is now a death mask himself, in life he was a spiritualist who sought to access the paranormal beyond plaster. While death masks sought to understand a person’s death through the tactile, James looked to understand it through the supernatural.
After his death, James was both cast and photographed by his son of the same name, the painter and photographer William “Billy” James. “There was a real sense of family there,” Morris says.
But it was the death of James’s other son, Herman, who spurred James’s study of the supernatural. After Herman died as an infant in 1885, the same year James became a full professor at Harvard, he and his wife visited a Boston medium to try and connect with Herman’s spirit. The same year, James founded the American Society for Psychical Research, a spiritualist research institute.
Spiritualism is the belief that the dead can communicate with the living through the use of a medium. One of ASPR’s main functions was to audit those mediums, trying to determine who could truly pierce beyond the veil.
Though the scientific community today thinks of spiritualism as pseudoscience, in the 19th century, it was considered a legitimate scientific pursuit.
According to Deborah Blum, a Pulitzer-prize winning journalist and author of “Ghost Hunters: William James and the Scientific Proof of Life After Death,” the leading figures of spiritualism in the 19th century were “hardcore, very respected scientists.” Blum lists Nobel Prize winners Charles Richet, Lord Rayleigh, and Marie Curie as being among those with research interests in the supernatural.
In the 19th century, the scientific community’s interest in spiritualism stemmed from a crisis of belief, according to Blum. The advents of geology and evolutionary theory started “revealing these layers of the Earth’s history that are very challenging to the Biblical explanation of creation,” she says.
“There’s this sort of cultural angst,” Blum says. “What’s real? What’s not real? Who explains the world? Who doesn’t?”
Loss of faith in the Church led some to turn to alternate systems of belief — including spiritualism.
However, as more scientists dove into spiritualism, they found that the field was not “nearly as trustworthy as they thought,” as Blum puts it. Gradually, scientists began “backing away.”
Despite the waning popularity of the field, William James continued his research. “It’s really interesting when you get into his later thoughts on the subject,” Blum notes, “because he’ll talk about why he doesn’t give up on the issue.”
“Let’s just say there’s a door to unlimited possibilities in the universe,” says Blum, paraphrasing James’s reasoning. “You slam it shut, because science has persuaded you that everything is tangible and fungible and concrete.”
“Well, his argument at the end was: that’s a mistake. Because that’s hubris. We don’t know everything.”
Although spiritualism never again reached the level of legitimacy it had in the 19th century, interests in the field have spiked at different points throughout history.
For example, interest in spiritualism rose after the American Civil War, as families of the deceased grappled with loss, says Blum. “Their families desperately wished for some way to communicate with them,” she says. “The Ouija board was invented in that time period.”
Blum describes similar spikes in interest after World War I and during the more recent wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. She says that all three instances are times when “everything feels uncertain.”
“These periods of anxiety, when the explanations we have don’t seem enough, tend to drive an interest in spiritualism.”
That interest in spiritualism persists even today. After all, James’s ASPR still exists in New York. “This is as uncertain a time as any,” Blum says.
We can try to combat that uncertainty by ways of mediums or molds to find understanding of both the world around us and the world beyond us. While James’s corpse is still six feet under, at a simple Hollis special request his likeness can rise from below and up three floors to the Houghton reading room. In visiting the archives, we can access James’s legacy not only through his texts, but by looking him right in the eyes.
Sections
Students clad in chunky sweaters, Doc Martens, a Basquiat t-shirt, or a funky, colorblock jacket recline on plush leather couches as “Dreams” by The Cranberries plays softly in the background. You guessed it: we’re in Barker Cafe. After an almost three year hiatus due to the pandemic, student cafes on campus are coming back.
Central to this operation is Kim Smith, associate director of Retail Dining Operations for Harvard University Dining Services. A South Shore native, Smith was trained as a pastry chef in culinary college. She first worked at Au Bon Pain for 10 years while getting a masters degree from Cambridge College, before joining HUDS in 2003. Over the past year, Smith has been charged with overseeing the hiring process and re-opening of all student run cafes with warm Bostonian charm.
The biggest challenge to the reopening was finding student workers, Smith says. When she posted the jobs at the cafes in August, Smith says she expected Lamont cafe to receive the most applications, as had been the case pre-pandemic. Instead, she found more student enthusiasm for Barker.
“I’m really happy to see life again,” Smith says. This recent revitalization of student cafes, though, is not the only time Smith has helped campus spaces blossom in her 20-year tenure. As the manager that first opened Lamont Cafe and later oversaw Cambridge Queen’s Head Pub, Smith has witnessed these spaces grow into communities around her.
“Those two places are near and dear to my heart. They're like my babies,” Smith says. “When we first opened Lamont probably 12 years ago, we weren’t sure how Harvard students would feel about serving Harvard students, but year over year, it’s become the thing to do.”
The students working in the cafes prior to the pandemic largely took the businesses into their own hands, especially those in managerial positions.
“We get students who have a business mind and creative mind,” Smith says. “We structure it to give them some kind of business experience as well in managing their peers, which sometimes can be hard to do. But we always have that student who wants more and wants to take on more.”
Student workers often grow close to Smith — she has received wedding invitations and often grabs brunch with visiting alumni — and some have even recruited others to work at cafes. Smith recalls having students coming back to grad school asking for a job again, or graduates who tell their younger siblings to seek her out for a job. “I have a very easy name to remember,” Smith says with a chuckle.
Under student leadership, the cafes advanced strongly in the years before the pandemic. Each cafe also developed its own distinct character. The Barker Cafe “was always a little bit more eclectic,” Smith says. “It drew a more of, I would say, kind of a creative student.”
Lamont Cafe, instead, attracted “the night owls” because it was open until 2 a.m., Smith says. “The students hang out there and they sleep there sometimes.”
Then the pandemic hit and in March 2020, all students were sent home. For Smith, that meant closing all the cafes, which she says was “devastating” for her and the student workers. “We were all just crying because we really didn't know what was going to happen.”
Even once some students returned to campus for the 2020-2021 school year, the cafes remained closed, leading to a loss in both institutional knowledge and in the general excitement of working at a cafe.
“Everyone graduated, everyone’s moved on,” Smith says. “So we’re starting from scratch in every single location. It’s really tragic and sad.”
In spite of this challenge, Smith says she’s hopeful that the cafes will return to full capacity. But first she needs students to fill the shifts — particularly at Lamont Cafe, which has yet to reopen. “My belief is if a student wants to work, if I have a position for them, or hours that will work for them, I will hire them,” Smith says.
Christine Lee ’23, a barista at Barker Cafe and current Crimson Blog editor, says many of her colleagues are seniors who experienced the cafes as freshmen. For Lee, her fond memories of Barker inspired her to come back and work at the cafe.
“The smell of the coffee and the music, everything combined just felt like such a wonderful space, a beautiful little corner on campus to hide away and do work, or chat with friends, or eat, or you know, catch your breath,” she says. “I think that was what made it so special to me.”
Lee credits Barker’s successful reopening to Smith’s support during the first week.
“She was there for every single shift. And Barker is by no means a small undertaking,” Lee says. “I think this week so far has been a lot more manageable for us knowing that we’ll be slowly going into doing this independently.”
Lee adds that Smith’s warm personality and extensive experience gave her staff a sense of confidence in their own work.
“She’s just so incredibly easy to get along with, such a reassuring presence, and generally someone who you can tell is competent in a way that you can only be after having so many years of experience in the kind of position that she occupies,” she says. “I think that's especially important for students like me who are entering into this kind of job with no background.”
Smith is planning for Lamont Cafe to open the week of Nov. 14, but with a new schedule: it will operate on Fridays and weekends, rather than every day. She recognizes that Lamont and other cafes might look different from the pre-pandemic operations and thathe future of the cafes will depend on the Harvard community. “What does the community want it to be?” Smith asks. “We take it from there.”
She is confident that once the cafes begin reopening, their presence in student life will create interest. And it’s already happening at Barker: even though the cafe opened only last week, students fill every table. It’s easy to understand why.
Sections
Hannah K. Scruggs is a Ph.D. candidate in the African and African American Studies Department at Harvard. She specializes in public history, and her current work examines enslaved and free Black communities in central Virginia. She previously worked at Smithsonian’s National Museum of African American History and Culture as a genealogy reference assistant and at The Montpelier Foundation as a research associate.
This interview has been edited for length and clarity.
FM: When researching your work, “public” consistently appeared before various job titles you held. What does it mean to be a public historian and what inspired you to take a less traditional approach to studying history?
HKS: From a young age, I really enjoyed museums and was really impacted by them. I knew that I cared a lot about education, and especially history education, and ensuring that people can have access to stories about the past that were accurate.
I saw and learned a lot that wasn’t necessarily being taught in my classes and so I was interested in other approaches to engaging with history. I discovered public history as a field when I was working at the Braddock Carnegie Library. That work was really influential to me because I was able to work with the community but also talk about the history of the place and how the history had impacted the present for the people living there.
I also did a lot of work at my county’s historical society right after I graduated from high school and throughout college. Working in an archive, working with documents, engaging with the historical objects felt really powerful, and I wanted to work in a place where other people could experience history tangibly.
FM: What are you aspiring to accomplish through making historical sites, museums, and history more accessible and “community-centered”?
HKS: I want people to feel ownership and a sense of reclamation, if they want to, in those places, at plantation sites. I know that not everyone has the desire to connect with places where their ancestors were enslaved or experienced violence. But I think if there is that desire, and some people do have it, it can be a really powerful space for connection and healing.
For example, Montpelier, where I worked, is now descendant-run. This spring they had an ugly and very public fight with the former board in defense of the Montpelier Descendants Committee. Now, the MDC is full co-stewards with the Montpelier Foundation, and the Montpelier Foundation board is more than 50 percent descendants or people descendants have chosen to represent them on board.
With that comes more conversations about the truth of the past, the truth of that place, and more conversations about the majority of the people who lived in the house, not just the Madisons, and the truth about the impact of enslaved people not just on the place where they lived, but on the surrounding area, the physical impact on the landscape, and also ideas that enslaved people had that they lived out.
You’re in the same room as those white men who were making those decisions, who were writing those documents, the Constitution, et cetera. It’s not happening in a vacuum. Having descendants be able to tell the stories that they want to tell and host the programming they want to host and have power over that place is really incredible.
FM: How does the fact that descendants are leading this work change the way you navigate archives and the way you overcome barriers?
HKS: A lot of the descendants that we work with aren’t trained historians, aren’t necessarily people who have a background in history or the archives. Sometimes they have a lot of background in genealogy and so they are very skilled at navigating archives. But I think talking to them about the ways that different disciplines can impact and influence what they can learn about their families is crucial at Montpelier and other sites too. Archaeology is one way that a lot of people can learn more about their enslaved ancestors, because enslaved people were often the majority of the people at these larger plantation sites, and they left behind stuff just like we all do. Using different disciplines and encouraging people to ask questions of their older family members, ask for oral histories, is how I try to work with people and encourage them when they get discouraged sometimes about not being able to find necessarily exactly what they’re looking for.
FM: Your work is so heavily focused on a community whose history is largely undocumented, hidden, or buried. What barriers have you encountered and how have you overcome them? 
HKS: There is more in the archive than we often expect or that we often hear. These histories are documented not just in the archives, but through oral histories, through the landscape. There are plenty of barriers that we came up against.
In my work as a genealogist with the Smithsonian, that is something that we talked about working around, but also learning how to understand people’s lives, the historical context, understand the geographic context, understand the worlds in which people lived using any source possible, and just not from the perspective of enslaved people necessarily. But there also has been so much more, and learning from scholars like Saidiya Hartman and Tiya Miles, so many people have looked at archives and told stories that previously people thought were untellable, so I feel like I’ve learned a lot already from scholars already doing this work.
FM: How does your African American identity shape your relationship to United States history? Does your Ph.D. or previous work academically engage with or incorporate your lived experiences as an African American from Central Virginia? 
HKS: My identity as a Black woman is highly influential to the work that I do. And specifically as an Afro-Virginian whose family has been in Virginia for about 300 years, at least.
When I was in fourth grade, I learned that I lived in the same place where my ancestors were enslaved. I lived in the same county. I did this project for school, and I interviewed the descendants of the people who own the plantation, the people who owned my ancestors.
I think that experience is one that I’m still really unpacking, but that set everything up for me when I think about the work that I want to do, what I want to research, it comes back to that. After I did AmeriCorps, I got my master’s in public history at N.C. State. And my first job out of my master’s was I worked at Montpelier, and I was a research associate for the Montpelier descendant community, and that’s exclusively descendants of enslaved people who James Madison enslaved or were enslaved in surrounding plantations.
I learned a lot about different relationships people can have to a place like a plantation site. And in particular, a plantation site in the South where a lot of the people that I was working with had a relationship to that place, whether it was that they grew up there, or their families had continued to come back even after they Great-migrated out of the area.
That was just really powerful and life shifting work, and recognizing that, “Oh, my ancestors could have been here with your ancestors.” It just made it very, very personal work, recognizing the deep kinship and connection I had with other people who were doing the same work in this area, as well as the descendant community that I was working with.
FM: So much of your work is centered around reckoning with a difficult past, what does it mean to you to attend Harvard, an institution that has just started the process of reckoning with its connection to slavery?
HKS: It’s really interesting to be here at this time. I did my undergrad at the College of William and Mary. When I started there in 2009, they were also just beginning the process of reckoning with their legacy of slavery.
There’s also different implications for indigenous people, because in the building of Harvard you have indigenous slavery in Massachusetts, or the selling of indigenous people to earn money to build institutions. There are some different nuances that are regional. But I think it’s important for universities across the country to go through this and it’s been exciting to see these conversations happen and also know that there’s still work to be done.
FM: What actions towards reconciliation do you approve of and how do you think university efforts can be better? Because you’ve seen how William and Mary tried to approach this, how do you think Harvard can learn from their actions?
HKS: I think descendant work is a way of pursuing justice that I believe is quite direct or can be quite direct. I also look at people– the Georgetown 272 and the ways that they’re starting to work towards reparations is really crucial. The Descendants of Enslaved Communities at UVA is a 501(c)(3) that just got started within the last two years. That’s also an organized group of descendants of enslaved people that built the university — I’m actually part of that organization. These are ways that descendants can organize and have power.
FM: Harvard has recently been under scrutiny due to its handling of the remains of the enslaved Africans and Indigenous people it holds. Some have criticized the University’s lack of culturally-competent language, such as not capitalizing A in ancestors as the respective Native tribe traditionally does, and a lack of transparency. Do you believe these errors are inevitable missteps that institutions will encounter as they begin to reckon with difficult pasts?
HKS: I don’t think that they’re inevitable. Dealing with remains is something that most institutions and museums in particular are going to have to reckon with and are starting to reckon with, and should have reckoned with a long time ago, because NAGPRA (Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act), which is the first legislation around returning indigenous remains to tribes repatriating them, came out — it’s been 30-plus years. We’ve had time. There isn’t right now something that exists like that for African Americans, but there are conversations starting and there are descendant movements that are popping up around cemeteries, around historic Black cemeteries. The phrase “descendant communities” came out of the fight at the African Burial Ground with Dr. Michael Blakey and community activists like Peggy King Jorde.
Remains and burial sites of burial and honor to our ancestors have always been a critical part of this. How much do I believe that most people and most large, wealthy institutions have paid attention to those things? I’m not sure. But certainly there are people aware of those fights.
FM: Harvard has recently garnered a lot of support after releasing the Legacy of Slavery Report. As a public historian specializing in African American history and slavery, do you feel as if the university is genuinely committed to reconciling with its past? How has the institution supported or hindered your work to unearth this past?
HKS: I think that at this point, universities that aren’t acknowledging their roles in slavery are being looked at sideways — or in genocide, or the stealing of land from indigenous people. We’re at a point where so many universities have come forward and joined Universities Studying Slavery. To not, for an institution like Harvard, is not an option.
I think that’s going to be the real question: Are you going to be a leader in this? Are you going to work to figure out some of those questions, or are you going to follow as other people start to figure this out?
When it comes to institutions hindering my work, I am very grateful that I have not run up against that. That is not to say it doesn’t happen. It certainly does. But I have been in institutions that have really encouraged the work, and that’s intentional. I’ve picked places where I felt safe. There are still fights to be had even if it’s not the institution automatically saying no to everything.
FM: What has your experience as a Black woman emerging into the academy been like, especially considering your progressive approach to conserving history? Do you feel like you could push through if you didn’t come in without a very clear set of values and career goals?
HKS: I think coming in with that set of values and goals as well as having a sense of self is one of the most important things. The other most important thing is having a community behind me: my community from home but also a community of Black women scholars who encourage me — Tiya Miles and Blair Kelley, who works at UNC-Chapel Hill.
Knowing that there are other Black women scholars who have navigated this and navigated institutions that can be hostile and navigated people that can be hostile and have done it with grace and have retained a strong sense of who they are as a scholar, the story that they tell, and the sense that this is a really important act of reclaiming our past and telling the truth about our country and telling the truth about the world that we live in.
That’s all really inspiring to me and I’m grateful that I have such good role models. I can’t imagine how it must have been for Black women scholars and Black, queer, non-binary scholars even 20, 30 years ago. There has been a lot of groundbreaking work in the generation of scholars above me.
FM: What are you looking forward to for your first semester here? What are you excited about?
HKS: This is going to sound really nerdy but I’m delighted to be back in classes. I’ve missed it. I’m so happy to be given the time to learn and to read and write and think. I love all my classes so far. And that’s how I know that I’m in the right place and doing the right thing for me.
Kaysia E. Harrington contributed reporting. 
Sections
A flood of laughter and chatter greets patrons as they walk into the Cambridge Queen’s Head pub. Greeted by hosts dressed in sleek black, some clientele present passports, others their driver’s license, all alongside Harvard University IDs. Soft yellow lighting illuminates old placards hanging on the wood-paneled walls; after a two-week soft launch, the room already smells slightly of beer. Entering the pub, says employee Lucy H. Vuong ’26, feels like strolling into Harry Potter’s Diagon Alley.
The pub, situated in the basement of Memorial Hall, held its grand re-opening on Oct. 19. For the first time since the Covid-19 pandemic began, patrons crowded around the pub’s pool table and dart board, munching on tater tots and mozzarella sticks. “It’s a really lively, energetic environment,” says Olivia L. Johnson ’25, who works as a host and bartender.
Unlike in other Harvard-run cafes, it’s difficult to spot a computer in the Cambridge Queen’s Head. “I really want to give students a community space where they can be themselves, let loose a little bit,” says Zachary L. Tripsas, general manager of the pub. “Sometimes the most important space on a campus is where your academics and all of those other pressures can disappear.”
Matthew G. Kung ’23, a patron at the pub, adds that in comparison to other social spaces on campus, the pub seems “a bit more put together and mature,” the kind of venue that “when we’re 40, we could see us and all of our dad and mom friends going out for a drink on a Thursday night.”
This semester, the Queen’s Head is open Wednesday to Friday from 5 p.m. to midnight. Regular events include Wednesday night 50-cent wings, Thursday night trivia, and Friday night karaoke. The pub accepts BoardPlus, and management focuses on keeping prices affordable for undergraduate students.
According to its website, the pub caters primarily to undergraduate clientele. Many of its patrons in the past two weeks, however, have been graduate students who remember the pub pre-Covid, says bartender Evangeline M. Liao ’25. Similar to its clientele, the pub is staffed by a mix of undergraduate and graduate students, about 30 in total.
Johnson emphasizes how much she values working at the pub. She worked at Target throughout high school, she says, and a service job teaches important lessons about how to interact with people of all backgrounds.
Working at the pub also serves as a respite from Harvard’s academic stressors. “It’'s time I’'m intentionally making not about school at all,” says Jonathan R. Chinen, a student manager who is dual-enrolled at the Graduate School of Design and the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences. “The nice thing about this type of work is that the scope of your role is very specific, very clear, and you’re valued for doing those clear things.”
As general manager, Tripsas focuses on creating a tight-knit culture among employees. “I love to see how very different people can work in the same space and still achieve the same goals,” he says.
Many of his employees attest that Tripsas’s efforts to build community are paying off. Highlighting the respect that all staff members share, graduate and undergraduate alike, Chinen says, “We’re crafting this experience for the larger Harvard community together.”
Getting the Queen’s Head up and running was an enormous challenge that required extensive cleaning and the onboarding of new staff, Tripsas says. Nonetheless, he’s already preparing for the next semester, when he hopes that the pub will host guest speakers and poets, a drag show, and a battle of the bands.
As Tripsas looks forward, the Queen’s Head is struggling to look back. Liao says she wonders to what extent institutional memory can be preserved by an almost entirely new staff. Even for patrons who remember the pub pre-Covid, a kind of pandemic-era amnesia emerges. While Jonathan Z. Zhang ’23 remembers the pub as both a dance and study space, few others have distinct memories. Customers and employees alike seem focused on moving forward.
“This is a train running full speed ahead — it’s continuing to do that,” Tripsas says. “Sometimes there’s a bump on the rail, but it doesn’t stop that train from going.”
Sections
On a Friday evening at the end of October, soft chatter and clinking glasses echoed beneath the vaulted ceiling of the Pavillion in the Ronald Reagan building in Washington. Over 100 formally-dressed heterodox academics, conservative think tank staffers, “freethinkers,” and rogue government officials sat at round linen-covered tables, dining on filet mignon, drinking Italian red wine, and listening to a speech by Steven A. Pinker.
Pinker, a celebrity academic and psychology professor at Harvard, wasn’t there in person; instead, his face, set against a background of the Boston skyline, was beamed onto a large screen. He was giving a tribute to John H. McWhorter, a colleague, fellow linguist, English and comparative literature professor at Columbia, and opinion writer for the New York Times.
They’d been invited to the gala by the American Council of Trustees and Alumni, an organization that promotes, according to its website, “academic excellence, academic freedom, and accountability at America’s colleges and universities.” McWhorter had won their Philip Merrill Award; Pinker gave his introduction.
The speech started off standardly enough. “John McWhorter’s superhuman record of podcasts, reviews, media appearances, and popular books can make us forget that he’s also a major scholar in linguistics,” Pinker began. He talked for several minutes about McWhorter’s work in the study of Creole linguistics.
“Then, there’s the body of accomplishments that I suspect brings us here tonight,” Pinker said, marking an apparent turn. “In 2015, before anyone had heard of the word ‘woke’ or experienced the ‘Great American Awokening,’ John anticipated this revolution in his eerily prescient essay, ‘Anti-Racism, Our Flawed New Religion.’ And in his latest book, ‘Woke Racism,’ John fearlessly indicts this lamentable return to treating people as interchangeable members of a racial category, rather than as individuals.”
“The Great American Awokening” refers to an idea, popular among conservative intellectuals, that white liberals have become more sympathetic to racial justice movements like Black Lives Matter; sometime around 2016, they suddenly became “woke.”
In the rest of his speech, Pinker praised McWhorter’s “defiance of all shibboleths, dogmas, creeds, and tribes” and defense of intellectual diversity and academic freedom. “Though John has never avowed the orthodoxies of the left, he has also resisted the temptation to find succor and support in the welcoming arms of the right. Politically, John is non-binary — and we all know how good that is,” added Pinker. The crowd of freethinkers laughed in unison.
Earlier that day, ACTA had held a conference in the Reagan building on free speech at college campuses. The speakers were mostly academics whose political opinions have gotten them in hot water; there was Dorian S. Abbot ’04, the University of Chicago geophysicist whose critiques of diversity and inclusion efforts led to his being disinvited from a lecture at MIT; Glenn C. Loury, the Black conservative economist who drew controversy after penning a rebuttal to the Brown University administration’s statement about confronting racial injustice in the wake of the murder of George Floyd; and Erec Smith, a professor at York College of Pennsylvania who recently published a book titled “A Critique of Anti-Racism in Rhetoric and Composition: The Semblance of Empowerment.”
This might seem like an odd appearance for Pinker, a scientist and self-described liberal Democrat. In recent years, however, Pinker has become increasingly concerned about the academic environment he inhabits. Universities, he fears, are becoming hostile to open debate and intolerant of new ideas.
Meanwhile, Pinker has faced his own share of controversy, particularly around his willingness to engage in discussions of genetic differences between races and genders. James A. Smith, a lecturer in literature and theory at Royal Holloway, University of London, once wrote that Pinker, along with Jordan B. Peterson, another public intellectual and former Harvard psychology professor, “offer long-term validation to a raft of interrelated reactionary political positions, in a way that the alt right could never dream of doing.” What Pinker sees as a commitment to free speech and the scientific method, his critics see as a feeding into racism, sexism, and the worst parts of the status quo.
In talking to Pinker over the course of several interviews, we wanted to reconcile this apparent contradiction. Yet Pinker, in the end, told us that it wasn’t ideological at all: he wants to defend the ability to discuss ideas, even those he doesn’t believe in himself. “The truth can’t be racist,” he says.
Here’s a story Pinker often likes to tell: When he was a teenager, like many kids living in Montreal in the ’60s, he was an anarchist (or, depending on who he’s talking to, mildly interested in the ideas of Bakunin). He’d argue with his parents — the children of survivors of antisemitic pogroms and the Holocaust — that human nature is to cooperate peacefully; his parents, amused, told him that he’d soon learn otherwise.
It didn’t take long. On Oct. 7, 1969, when Pinker was 15, Montreal’s police went on strike. In his telling, “Within hours, there was looting. There were riots. There was a private security guard who shot a protester, and there was a doctor who shot an intruder in his house.”
“Mom and Dad were right, and their smartass son was wrong,” he says with a smile.
As he writes of this incident in “The Blank Slate: The Modern Denial of Human Nature,” his 2002 book that argues that our genes influence our behavior: “This decisive empirical test left my politics in tatters.” He became even more interested in questions of human nature — “What really makes us tick?” — that would foreshadow his entire career.
At least, that’s what he tells us. In the book, there’s a slight change: he writes that he was a “true believer” in anarchism, while in conversation with us, he calls it a “flirtation.”
He’s also brought up this anecdote in the New York Times and the Guardian. The latter pointed out that in his retelling of the strike, Pinker doesn’t mention that the riots weren’t random, but a result of a labor dispute rooted in the Quebec independence movement, which heightened tensions between poorer French Canadians and wealthier English Canadians and also led the police to strike. (In an email to us, Pinker said the cause of the riot is “irrelevant to the point of whether police prevent violence.”)
For a couple of journalists trying to figure out what Pinker was like as a child, this moment felt a little disappointing — it seemed like an anecdote partially crafted to make a specific point to other people, rather than a genuine memory. In retrospect, it probably doesn’t matter. Steven Pinker the person has long since been eclipsed, at least in public, by Steven Pinker the celebrity intellectual. Even if we thought we set out to understand him, we were always going to be confronted by how he appears to others.
Pinker has since come a long way from Montreal West. He met us in his spacious office in William James Hall, which commands sprawling views of Cambridge. Two-thirds of the wall space in his office appeared covered by books, organized by categories indicated by small notes stuck to the wood of the bookshelf. The remaining one-third was taken up by plaques and trophies.
There was a framed photo of Pinker talking to Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau on his desk, which he calls “one of my proudest possessions.” When asked what other world leaders he’s met, he pulled out a long list that he maintains on his phone.
At our visits, he was dressed in, as one of his graduate students put it, “jewel tones and cowboy boots” — specifically, a deep purple dress shirt and black, studded Lucchese boots (which he likes because they give him extra height). It’s hard not to stare at his mane of curly, silver hair, which he told the Harvard Gazette he maintains because “every professor should have an affectation, something to amuse students with.” In recent years, he helped found the “Luxuriant Flowing Hair Club for Scientists.” When a photographer arrived to take his picture for this piece, he immediately took out his phone, turned the camera to selfie mode, and adjusted his curls to his liking.
Afterwards, he gave us a tour, pointing out the awards and decorations he particularly likes. He slid back a panel in the back of his office to reveal a human brain in a clear bucket full of formaldehyde, gifted to him by a medical student. From the corner, he pulled out a giant iron spike, a replica of the same one that impaled Phineas Gage.
He uses both the brain and the spear as props in his undergraduate classes; despite all of his books, projects, and media appearances, Pinker is still a teacher. Next spring, he will head the gigantic undergraduate course PSY 1: “Introduction to Psychological Sciences,” which has enrollment in the hundreds.
It’s hard not to encounter Pinker at all levels of the University. The colleagues we spoke to uniformly described him as actively involved both with students and the administration of his field. Richard J. “Dick” Zeckhauser ’62, a professor of political economy at the Harvard Kennedy School, calls Pinker a “responsible citizen” — someone who will serve on committees, join projects, and give detailed thoughts about graduate students when asked.
“Have you heard of the free rider problem?” Zeckhauser asks us. “I don’t think there are many free riders at this university, but there are a lot of cheap riders. And then there are a few people who are willing to go the extra mile. And Steve is certainly a person who regularly goes the extra mile.”
Howard E. Gardner ’65, professor of cognition and education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education, calls Pinker a “mensch.” Decades ago, when both he and Pinker were at a conference with James Watson, a scientist who is typically credited with discovering the double helix structure of DNA and who was stripped of his position at the University of Cambridge for his racist remarks, Watson began to pick on Gardner. “Steve just popped up and he gave a wonderful defense,” Gardner remembers. “He said, ‘You need to listen to what Howard is saying. You need to avoid these personal attacks.’ He’s a very good debater.”
Pinker is often willing to defend his colleagues — even when it attracts controversy. In 2012, the University of Miami philosopher Colin McGinn was accused of sexual harassment by a graduate student. When the matter became public, Pinker wrote in an open letter that McGinn was a “brilliant and distinguished scholar” and that if the University of Miami pursued disciplinary action against McGinn for “exchanging sexual banter with a graduate student,” it would “put a chill on communication between faculty and graduate students and on the openness and informality on which scholarship depends.”
After more details emerged about the case, including emails showing that McGinn had suggested that he and the graduate student have sex, McGinn resigned and Pinker revised his opinion. In 2013, Pinker told the New York Times: “There’s no doubt he behaved badly.” He added, “The outcome was too severe, but there definitely should have been consequences.”
In 2019, Pinker was criticized after BuzzFeed News revealed that he’d aided the legal defense of Jeffrey Epstein in 2006. Pinker told BuzzFeed that his involvement was “a favor to a friend and colleague” — Epstein’s lawyer, Alan Dershowitz — and that he didn’t know who the client was, nor the exact details of the case, before he helped Dershowitz analyze the exact meaning of a federal law concerning the use of the internet to entice a minor into prostitution. “Knowing what I know now I do regret writing the letter,” Pinker told BuzzFeed News.
Gardner, reflecting on some of these moments, conceded that they may not have been wise, but “they came out of a desire to help a friend.” Still, on Pinker’s tendency to get himself into trouble, he also adds, “There must be a certain aspect of Steve that likes the combat. I think he likes to debate because he likes to win.”
Pinker’s office is filled with copies of his own books. His older publications, as well as some selected foreign translations, line a shelf above his computer. On a back table, there are dozens of copies of the Japanese translation of his 12th and latest book, “Rationality: What It Is, Why It Seems Scarce, Why It Matters.”
In our conversation, Pinker often brings up “The Blank Slate: The Modern Denial of Human Nature,” which, even two decades after its release, illustrates core aspects of his thinking today.
The book argues that our individual behaviors — our intelligence, our sociability, our tendencies toward violence — are rooted in our genes, not just the environment in which we are raised. This proposition, Pinker writes, has long been considered toxic in the media and academia because of fears that it might provide support for misogyny or racism; emphasizing the role of biology in human behavior might lead some to conclude that all differences between humans are biological.
The book is often less a defense of the underlying idea than an expression of irritation at the ways Pinker believes, accurately or not, it has been perceived. (Louis Menand wrote in the New Yorker that the book is “devoted to bashing away at the Lockean-Rousseauian-Cartesian scarecrow that Pinker has created.”)
Pinker calls the “refusal to acknowledge human nature” among academics akin to “Victorians’ embarrassment about sex, only worse,” and a “corrupting influence” on intellectual discourse. Academics who emphasize environment over everything else, he says, don’t actually believe what they’re saying — instead, they parrot “fantastical beliefs” as “proof of one’s piety.”
Worse still, scientists who express a belief that genes may play a large role in behavior “have been picketed, shouted down, subjected to searing invective in the press, even denounced in Congress” simply for “invoking nurture and nature, not nurture alone.” Pinker cites several authors who have been victimized by this treatment, the most infamous of whom are Richard J. Herrnstein and Charles A. Murray ’65, who argue that IQ differences between Black and white people may be genetic in their book “The Bell Curve.” Pinker, to be clear, writes that he disagrees with their conclusions — yet a failure to even consider their ideas, he maintains, will ultimately erode “esteem for the truth” and undermine “claims to credibility in the eyes of the public.”
“The Blank Slate” does not tackle racial differences head-on, though in 2006 Pinker published a favorable review of a scientific paper which argued that Ashkenazi Jews may have evolved to have higher IQs than other racial and ethnic groups. A 2018 piece in the Guardian titled “The Unwelcome Revival of Race Science” argued that Pinker didn’t mention that although Ashkenazi Jews, on average, score well on IQ tests today, a century ago they scored below the average American.
Pinker tells us he’s previously written that “it is an empirical bit of evidence that there can be changes in measured IQ, especially when it comes to familiarity with the language in which the tests are administered.” (He didn’t include this fact in his review of the paper on Ashkenazi intelligence, though even if he had, it doesn’t appear to undercut an assertion that Ashkenazis are more intelligent than other groups because of their genes.)
Pinker’s insistence that many academics, intent on moral purity, won’t entertain hard data has been a constant in his later works. In 2011, he published “The Better Angels of Our Nature: Why Violence Has Declined,” compiling statistics from history, political science, and sociology to argue that violence has declined over time, thanks to the moderating influences of our modern institutions. These are claims that have left some academics unsatisfied; they are not convinced by his argument that, given the catastrophes of the 20th century, violence is actually declining, nor whether this decline would even matter if people are just as unhappy as they used to be. As Gardner puts it, “He’ll say, ‘there are fewer people who died of X in 1950 than in 1900,’ and I’ll say, ‘Yes, that’s great. But if they’re miserable, is that really an achievement?’”
Pinker has rebuttals for each of these points. Critics of his analyses of declines in violence, he has written, either didn’t read the book carefully enough or are “unfamiliar with the relevant literatures.” He refers us to a graph that indicates that global happiness has increased, according to the World Values Survey. On the whole, as Pinker wrote in a response to the criticism of the book in the journal “Sociology,” the arguments that he makes “are empirical, though the facts on which those arguments are based are bound to gore some oxen of the hard left, critical theory, and various forms of post-X-ism.”
It seems true that critics of “Better Angels” come from those who are dissatisfied with the status quo. Meanwhile, it garnered positive attention from the global elite. By Pinker’s own account, this was the book that unlocked invitations to conferences, events, and appearances that put him in contact with world leaders. He maintains a well-publicized intellectual partnership with Bill Gates, who has called Pinker’s “Enlightenment Now: The Case for Reason, Science, Humanism, and Progress” his “new favorite book of all time.” At a time when both the left and the right are increasingly critical of institutions, Pinker is making the case for the value of what we have now.
Pinker wrote “The Blank Slate” and “Better Angels” at the tail-end of national concerns around “political correctness.” Today, those concerns have found a new life in “cancel culture” and “wokeness” — the fear that demands for universities to become more inclusive of race, gender, class, and sexuality have resulted in the silencing of dissent.
“Cancel culture is absolutely real,” Pinker told Penguin Books in 2021; low-level university employees are being fired for “trivial breaches of decorum,” a sign of a “regime of intimidation that puts people on notice that if they voice an unpopular opinion, their job could be on the line.”
To Pinker, this suppression of discussion risks the stunting of intellectual progress. His more recent books, “Enlightenment Now” — which extolls the virtues of the Western Enlightenment in promoting progress — and “Rationality” — both a guide for how to be rational and an argument for why rationality should be important to us in the first place — seem influenced by these concerns.
Pinker’s overarching response is that his critics, particularly in academia, are simply too attached to their worldview to accept his data-driven good news: In the conservative online publication Quillette, he wrote that they “resent the incursion of science, data, and quantification into territories traditionally fenced off and claimed by them.”
A more arch version of this can be found in “Enlightenment Now”: “Intellectuals hate progress. Intellectuals who call themselves ‘progressive’ really hate progress.”
One of the first academics to be canceled, Pinker says, was E. O. Wilson. Wilson was a biologist and professor of evolutionary biology at Harvard. Today, he is known for two things: his award-winning work on biodiversity and his public branding as a racist.
In 1975, Wilson published a book called “Sociobiology: The New Synthesis,” which argues that behaviors result from genes — “very much in the strain of work that I wrote about on human nature,” Pinker says — and stepped into a debate about scientific racism. In his book, Wilson writes that there should be a “discipline of anthropological genetics” to explore whether cultural differences are biological. This was read as an endorsement of genetic determinism; “Sociobiology” was criticized by Richard Lewontin and Stephen Jay Gould, among others. According to the New York Times, at a 1978 discussion partly about the book, members of the International Committee Against Racism entered the room carrying “anti-sociobiology placards (at least one displaying a swastika), seized the dais, and dumped a pitcher of ice water on Mr. Wilson’s head, chanting, ‘Wilson, you’re all wet!’”. To Pinker, who currently serves on the E. O. Wilson Biodiversity Foundation’s board of advisers, this moment was indicative of “restrictions on academic freedom” which have only intensified since.
Wilson, whose career was never derailed by the protests against him, died in 2021. A few months later, a biologist at Howard University discovered that for decades, Wilson had corresponded with J. Philippe Rushton, a psychologist known for his insistence that Black people possess inferior intelligence. Wilson defended Rushton against censure for his racism on multiple occasions and privately wrote that he couldn’t speak up for him even more forcefully because of a “leftward revival of McCarthyism” in universities.
Without mentioning himself, Pinker tells us that there is “a long list” of academics who have been canceled or almost canceled: Amy L. Wax, who was denounced by students and alumni at the University of Pennsylvania for arguing that racial disparities exist because some minorities do not embrace “the bourgeois cultural script” that “the upper-middle class still largely observes”; Laura Kipnis, who was criticized for defending a colleague accused of sexual harassment; and Dorian Abbot, whose lecture at MIT was canceled after students took issue with his critical views on diversity, equity, and inclusion trainings. These incidents, Pinker says, have become more frequent over the last four years.
Sometimes, Pinker speaks up on their behalf. In 2010, he sent a letter of support to a Harvard Law School student who was forced “into a groveling apology” after sending emails that, in his account to us, simply attempted to “discuss race differences” — “not even advocating for anything herself.”
Pinker is referring to Stephanie N. Grace, a third-year law student who was denounced after she emailed fellow students that she did not “rule out the possibility that African Americans are, on average, genetically predisposed to be less intelligent.”
“Everyone wants someone to take 100 white infants and 100 African American ones and raise them in Disney utopia and prove once and for all that we are all equal on every dimension,” Grace wrote, but she was “not 100% convinced that this is the case.”
Pinker himself has received criticism for what detractors see as a coziness with racists. A 2017 Politico Magazine article cited Pinker’s “The Blank Slate” as one of the books that inspired the American alt-right movement which helped propel former President Donald J. Trump to the White House in 2016. The book was praised by Steve E. Sailer, a journalist labeled a white supremacist by the Southern Poverty Law Center who frequently claims that Black people are less intelligent than white people.
In 2017, during a discussion about political correctness at universities, Pinker argued that a lack of ideological diversity on college campuses leads to “often highly literate, highly intelligent” young people gravitating to the alt-right. After the panel, journalist Benjamin Norton wrote on Twitter that “Steven Pinker has long been a darling of the white supremacist ‘alt-right.’ And he returns the favor.”
“The enemy of my enemy is my friend,” Pinker says when asked why some on the right have embraced his work, while stressing that any allegations that he had defended racists were “untrue.” He continues, “The fact that I haven’t been sucked into the academic hard left makes some on the right think that I must be more sympathetic to the right.”
He insists: “I’m not conservative — not that there’s anything wrong with it.” Between 2008 and 2022, Pinker (who says he loathes Donald Trump) donated over $70,000 to Democratic candidates and organizations. “I think I was the second-leading donor to the Democratic Party among FAS faculty,” Pinker says, referring to a 2015 article in The Crimson which listed him among the top three Harvard faculty members who donate the most to Democratic Party candidates.
Pinker calls himself a classic liberal “in the sense of John Stuart Mill” who also believes in “the principles of liberal democracy.” He shares many views with the Democratic Party today: human activity is responsible for climate change, pollution and workplace safety ought to be regulated, society requires a system for income redistribution. Still, he thinks that one of the liberal values he holds dear — the right to free speech — is now a “radical position, oddly enough.”
It is this issue, which Pinker is passionate about, that sometimes separates him from the left and brings him into an alliance with the right. He is currently on the advisory board of several nonpartisan organizations that are devoted to issues of free speech, particularly on college campuses; there is the Academic Freedom Alliance, the Campus Freedom Network, and the Foundation for Individual Rights in Education.
He is an occasional contributor to Quillette, a popular, conservative-leaning online magazine whose motto is “Free Thought Lives.” According to a 2018 Politico profile, “Quillette prides itself on publishing ‘dangerous’ ideas other outlets won’t touch.” (“I continue to be impressed that Quillette publishes heterodox but intellectually serious and non-inflammatory pieces [about] ideas that have become near-taboo in academic and intellectual discourse,” Pinker told Politico.)
In 2021, Pinker joined the board of advisers of the University of Austin, which often goes by the acronym UATX. UATX is a new private liberal arts institution “committed to freedom of inquiry,” according to its website. Its founding trustees include contrarian journalist Bari Weiss and historian Niall Ferguson, and its board of advisers currently includes former Harvard President Lawrence H. Summers. Pano Kanelos, UATX’s president, told the Austin American Statesman that the UATX is necessary because universities “no longer have an incentive to create an environment where intellectual dissent is protected and fashionable opinions are scrutinized.”
The University of Austin has been subject to a host of criticism since its founding — it has often been pilloried for lacking accreditation to provide degrees and having no full-time students. Given the project’s arch-conservative membership, some wondered whether it might become an echo chamber in itself. In the New Republic, Aaron R. Hanlon, associate professor of English at Colby College, called it “a solution to a problem that doesn’t exist.”
In a November 2021 interview with The Crimson, Pinker seemed enthusiastic about UATX. “Too many of the country’s universities are stuck in the same rut, and that rut includes exorbitant tuition, a mushrooming bureaucracy, a bizarre set of admissions criteria, and increasing political homogeneity, including repression of speech and ideas,” he said.
But Pinker’s relationship with UATX abruptly ended on Nov. 15, 2021 — just one week after the announcement of the university’s founding — when he announced he would leave its board of advisers.
At the time, Pinker wasn’t willing to elaborate on his decision; nearly a year later, he’s more forthcoming. Ultimately, he says, UATX confused free speech with the political right. “The University of Austin was kind of stacked with right-wingers, not even necessarily free speech advocates — some of them were actually opposed to free speech,” Pinker tells us.
He was also concerned that UATX’s “entire faculty and board of advisors were people who had been canceled.”
“A viable university can’t be the university of the canceled, the department of politically incorrect, or the faculty of the un-woke,” he says. “I don’t think universities should be committed to some doctrine, like left-wing political correctness, but that doesn’t mean that un-left-wing, un-political correctness, un-wokeness is a coherent basis of a university.”
Back at the ACTA conference in Washington D.C., conversations revolved around a fear for academia’s future. The guest list included members of the American Enterprise Institute, the Cato Institute, and the Republican National Lawyers Association, along with others who invariably referred to themselves as “original” and “free” thinkers. Speakers and panelists, many of whom had claimed to have experienced cancel culture themselves, expressed concerns about the impact diversity, equity and inclusion training, Ibram X. Kendi’s brand of antiracism, race-conscious admissions practices, safe spaces on university campuses, and woke ideology would have on education.
Kendi, in particular, came up frequently. ACTA seemed convinced that in universities today, anyone who does not adhere to Kendi’s antiracist agenda will face immediate backlash, leading to a suppression of “diversity of thought.” “That’s what creates a spiral of silence,” Pinker tells us. “If you’re accused of being racist for questioning an orthodoxy, everyone is going to pretend to believe that orthodoxy.”
“I haven’t read his book, but I read an excerpt of the book,” Pinker says of “How to Be an Antiracist.” “He has a right to make his arguments, and other people should have a right to disagree with the arguments. The problem being is the regime that is being imposed is that disagreeing is itself a punishable form of racism — which is lunatic, but sadly it has become almost the law of the land.”
On college campuses like Harvard’s — where a survey of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences earlier this year found that 80 percent of faculty identify as liberal — it is not hard to find yourself branded a right-winger or a conservative, according to Pinker.
“When you’re at the North Pole, all directions are south,” he says. “Academia is at the Left Pole, the mythical spot from which all directions are right.”
Ultimately, Pinker is afraid that the Awokening of academia will delegitimize universities. Enforcing antiracism, he suggests, particularly by prohibiting certain kinds of speech or disinviting speakers, will do more harm than good.
But the ACTA attendees were ready to push back. John McWhorter, taking the stage to accept his award, said that “All of us here are ready to march on and fight this slow but necessary fight.”
“We need bravery,” McWhorter told the audience. “We need a kind of bravery that can stand up against this professionalized incuriosity and ceaseless virtue signaling.”
McWhorter didn’t elaborate on what this means in practice. But outside of ACTA, on Twitter, Substack, and in real life, there is an increasingly organized group of people willing to defend academics and intellectuals from cancellation.
A paradigmatic example may be Dorian Abbot. Abbot, a University of Chicago geophysicist who was a speaker at an ACTA panel earlier in the day, says that he was canceled for the first time in 2020. Without a support network, he was blindsided. “There was a letter of denunciation against me and all this Twitter stuff,” he says. “I realized that there were people who were playing a game that I didn’t even know was going on.”
A year later, he says he was canceled again, this time when his planned lecture at MIT was axed.
But in 2021, Abbot was ready. “You have to have a game plan,” he says. “When that happened, I told Bari Weiss, I wrote an article for her. Then I went and told exactly, honestly what happened to anyone who asked — anyone who wanted to talk to me.”
Weiss, a former Wall Street Journal and New York Times Op-Ed columnist who is mostly known for her writings about culture war topics, has almost half a million followers on Twitter. She appears deeply connected to other journalists and academics concerned about cancel culture, and she elevated Abbott’s story to national status. The MIT incident was reported in the New York Times, the Boston Globe, and the New York Post, among others.
Those critical of Abbott now found themselves on the other side of the backlash. In reference to the MIT incident, Phoebe A. Cohen, a geoscientist at Williams College told the New York Times that “this idea of intellectual debate and rigor as the pinnacle of intellectualism comes from a world in which white men dominated.” She later wrote in Inside Higher Ed that she experienced “a deluge of attacks on Twitter,” “violent and insulting emails,” and had her “character and intelligence questioned in The New York Post, conservative online magazines and multiple additional New York Times columns and newsletters,” because of her comment.
Pinker seems to have anticipated such a response in “Rationality,” which begins with a warning in the second person. There are a lot of people, Pinker writes, who are getting fed up with the illiberalism of modern debate — so much so that they might soon “join the game you are playing and counter you with force rather than argument.”
Who exactly the “you” here is supposed to refer to is left unstated, though one can probably guess: the woke left, members of the Twitterati, oversensitive college students, and cautious university administrators.
These people might soon be in for a rude awakening, Pinker warns: “When you are the one who is canceled, it will be too late to claim that your views should be taken seriously because of their merits.”
In retrospect, the letter was obviously going to go viral.
On July 1, 2020, an anonymous group of linguists wrote an open letter addressed to the Linguistic Society of America asking for Steven Pinker to be stripped of his distinguished fellow title and removed from the society’s list of media advisers. Pinker, they argued, violated the LSA’s recently-issued statement on racial justice; they proffered six public statements and tweets as evidence.
In four of the six tweets highlighted in the open letter, Pinker retweeted articles from the New York Times and the Washington Post . In one such tweet, Pinker linked to a 2017 opinion article in the New York Times with the headline “Why Are Police Officers More Dangerous Than Airplanes?” and wrote: “Police kill too many people, black & white. Focus on race distracts from solving problem, as we do w [with] plane crashes.” In another tweet, Pinker highlighted a Washington Post article about the role of the police in preventing violence and wrote: “Don’t abolish the police.”
On July 3, the linguists emailed the letter to a small group of academics who might be sympathetic to their cause, inviting them to sign on. At some point that day, the letter was posted on Twitter. By the time the letter had hit around 60 signatories, it started to gain traction, and not in the way the letter-writers intended.
Later that same day, Claire Lehmann (the founding editor of the conservative-leaning publication Quillette, to which Pinker sometimes contributes) tweeted a link to the letter to her 300,000 followers with the addendum: “Sixty-six linguists have signed this pathetic letter. The accusations are as strong as a piece of warm lettuce.”
Lehmann was followed the next day by a slew of enraged tweets from a hodgepodge of established linguists, right-wing commentators, and friends of Pinker. Joe Henrich, a professor of evolutionary biology at Harvard, wrote that the letter “calls for the silencing and demotion” of Pinker. Jonathan Haidt, a social psychologist at New York University, remarked that it was “unfair.”
McWhorter, then the public relations chair of the LSA, tweeted about the letter several times over a three-day period. He called it an “attempt to defenestrate” Pinker, and its authors “erudite demons at the gates.”
Meanwhile, the letter was picking up steam; the list of signatories grew to hundreds of names. At least two of these names, Ray Jackendoff and Michel F. DeGraff, both prominent professors of linguistics, appear to have been added without the knowledge of Jackendoff and DeGraff themselves. Supporters of the letter speculated that the names had been added by trolls who wanted to impugn the letter’s credibility; detractors argued that it was evidence of the letter’s dishonesty.
On July 5, two days after it began to circulate, Pinker tweeted about the letter: “Some wondered [if] this open letter to the Linguistics Soc of America demanding they rescind my Fellow status is a satire of woke outrage culture, w its hallucinated ‘dog whistles,’ fury over tweets of NYT & WaPo op-eds, and obvious forged signatures … But it’s real, suggesting that Cancel Culture has entered its decadent phase. Don’t blame the LSA (at least not yet): they haven’t canceled me, & probably won’t. Don’t blame established linguists: I recognize only one name among the signatories.”
The latter point was often emphasized in the days following the publication of the letter; most of the signatories are not established linguists. A later analysis of the letter by Itamar Kastner, a lecturer in linguistics at the University of Edinburgh who signed the letter, showed that 42 percent of signatories were students, 14 percent held non-tenure track positions, and only 20 percent were tenured professors. Still, as Kastner pointed out, this is similar to the membership of the LSA itself; in 2019, 32 percent of LSA members were students.
The apparent fact that a plurality of signatories were young, or just starting out in the field, seemed to make the open letter to the LSA an example of the sensitivity and cancel culture that Pinker has been fighting against.
The open letter received attention from national and international media; it was covered by the New York Times, the Times (London), the Telegraph, Psychology Today, and the National Review, among others. A commentator in the Atlantic wrote that it would have a “chilling effect” on academic discourse. Meanwhile, a columnist in Mother Jones called it “dishonest” and “factually flawed.” A later analysis of the open letter from a small group of signatories found mentions of the letter in 60 different media outlets.
Ultimately, the LSA did not take any action against Pinker. By the end of that week, after significant backlash online and in the media, the libertarian outlet Reason published an article with the headline, “Steven Pinker Beats Cancel Culture Attack.”
This was a lot for a letter that was never meant to escape the field of linguistics. Many of the signatories observed the online reaction in shock; “I was watching it unfold and didn’t really understand what was happening,” says Caitlin Green, who signed the letter. The goals of the letter were “heartbreakingly modest,” says Jessica Rett, professor of linguistics at UCLA; trying to strip Pinker of his distinguished fellow status and remove him from the list of the LSA’s media advisors wasn’t a cancellation attempt so much as an effort to make sure that the LSA adhered to its own stated values. “It doesn’t make sense for you to write a statement about racial injustice for your society if it doesn’t have any teeth,” Rett says.
Pinker dismissed the notion that the LSA letter’s goals were modest and not a cancellation attempt as “bovine biosolids,” in an emailed statement.
“The LSA has no policy that its Fellows are forbidden to cite peer-reviewed social science research, or to express opinions that are grounded in evidence and probably true,” he writes. “The goal of the letter was to send a message to academics that disagreement with woke orthodoxy will not be tolerated but result in professional punishment.”
Later, a group of letter signers, including Green and Rett, wrote another letter in response to coverage of the letter in the media and online called “Who Speaks For Us.” Todd Snider, a co-author and postdoctoral fellow at Heinrich Heine University Düsseldorf, said that the title came from one of the goals of the letter itself: “Organization members were saying ‘Hey, maybe he shouldn’t speak on our behalf.’ It’s not that he shouldn’t speak.”
Still, Snider thinks that the letter was inevitably going to receive criticism. “I think that many of the people reacting negatively to the letter were on the lookout for PC police,” he says. “We just want our professional organization to treat him slightly differently, not kick him out. Just take them off a list of experts and the list of distinguished fellows. No matter how explicit they were, people who are inclined to hear any sort of criticism as cancellation were going to hear it because they’re listening for it.”
Of course, the letter didn’t strictly confine itself to the ways in which Pinker may not have lived up to the LSA’s statement on racial justice. The fourth paragraph begins: “Though no doubt related, we set aside questions of Dr. Pinker’s tendency to move in the proximity of what The Guardian called a revival of “scientific racism”, his public support for David Brooks (who has been argued to be a proponent of “gender essentialism”), his expert testimonial in favor of Jeffrey Epstein (which Dr. Pinker now regrets), or his dubious past stances on rape and feminism.”
Presumably, one would not even bring up such instances if one truly wanted them to be “set aside.” The part of the letter that isn’t explicitly stated — but that most people who read it can pick up on — is that the letter writers do seem to make some sort of moral judgment about Pinker himself; it’s hard to cite multiple instances of someone’s racial insensitivity without implying that they’re racist. If you already think that Pinker is racist, it seems that you’re likely to support the letter; if you don’t (or don’t particularly care either way), then you’re likely to oppose it.
This is what seems to be the focus of many negative reactions to the letter — to make a moral judgment against one’s personal character seems to be at the center of what it is to cancel someone. Yet cancellation also implies consequences, tangible negative effects. Though someone may have tried to cancel Pinker, they certainly didn’t succeed.
Some of the letter signatories, however, do say that their lives were negatively affected by the letter. They say that they’ve had conversations with other linguists that indicate they will be taken less seriously because they signed the letter — one received an email afterwards from a colleague that said, “Don’t worry about it. I still like you. You’re a nice guy. I just don’t respect you.” Several express worries that their decision to sign the letter will impact their future job prospects.
Moreover, in the days and weeks after the letter circulated, the signatories began to receive an onslaught of online harassment, much of which has been documented by the authors of “Who Speaks For Us.” On Twitter, Facebook, and blog posts, they were called “disgusting cultists,” a “lynch mob,” leaders of a “Salem Witch Trial campaign,” “Goebbelsian,” and attempting to “emulate the worst excesses of the former USSR and other similar regimes.” One commenter wrote that it would “be a reasonable idea to keep their list in mind and for other academics etc. to be wary of working with such people.” In another instance, a signatory received an email that said: “Are you as fucking useless at linguistics as you are at basic facts? No wonder you’re jealous imbeciles in that case.”
There were also more serious comments. One read: “They are going to pick you all off, one by one.”
By the time we reached our last interview, we still were not entirely sure what to make of Steven Pinker. Most of his professional work, he wrote to us later, concerns “research, writing, and teaching about language and the human mind,” not “defending freedom of thought or making controversial statements” — and still, his public persona hardly seems confined to psychology. As students at the university where he teaches, we certainly knew about his scientific work, but we were also aware of the controversy he has engendered.
Pinker, it seems, eventually did not know what to make of us, either. In our final interview, it became necessary to ask Pinker to respond to his harshest critics — what he made of being called a scientific racist, a sexist, and a defender of others who are racist and sexist — which prompted him to send us an email reiterating, on the latter point, “this is untrue.”
On the whole, Pinker is remarkably accessible to students — he responds to all of our messages within a matter of minutes. “Any professor who said no at a request to meet with students would be derelict in their duties,” he tells us. Most of the interactions that students have with him will be in the context of the coursework he teaches. And yet, his persona in the culture wars looms.
We arrived at his office for the first time while he was at the end of a conversation with a few members of the Harvard Salient, all dressed in suits. The Salient, which was restarted by undergraduates late last year, is an archly conserative publication known among undergraduates for dropping copies of its quarterly issues in front of almost every dorm room on campus. It publishes with a goal of “dispelling intellectual laziness, exposing conventional untruths, and reviving serious debate on Harvard’s campus and beyond.” One article in of its recent issues, “The Shibboleths of Woke Capital,” seems reminiscent of Pinker’s talks about free speech.
Pinker told us that he was meeting with the Salient at their request. They told him they were reluctant to reach out to many professors, but he encouraged them to try. “We often don’t know what the majority thinks,” he says.
When we walk in, we notice that they’ve left a colorful pile of past issues on Pinker’s desk. The issues, which tackle “woke ideology” and the virtues of conservatism, are untouched by our next visit. A month later, Pinker tells us he still has not read the Salient, but he has met with some of their members since then.
Ultimately, Pinker wants Harvard to change. It is not a “repressive monoculture” just yet, but one gets the sense from talking to Pinker that it may be heading in that direction. “I speak to people, not just colleagues, but a lot of students, who are kind of fed up at being told to shut up and ‘you can’t think that, you can’t say that,’” he tells us.
One also gets the sense that Pinker would like, in some way, to use his influence in the university to move it in a different direction. He has, for years, been vocal about moving public opinion toward what he calls free discourse: “I have the greatest hope of mobilizing that sentiment among the undergraduates,” he says.
Maybe this is why he is talking to us. Maybe, through listening and transmitting what he is saying to the student body, we will help save Harvard from itself, too.
— Magazine writer Rebecca E. J. Cadenhead can be reached at rebecca.cadenhead@thecrimson.com.
— Staff writer Miles J. Herszenhorn can be reached at miles.herszenhorn@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @MHerszenhorn.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard Disability Resources hosted its first “Disability as Diversity” celebration on Wednesday in honor of National Disability Employment Awareness Month.
Organized by Kate Higgins, associate director of University Disability Resources, the event aimed to recognize Harvard affiliates with disabilities. The celebration, which took place in the Science Center Plaza, featured speeches, booths, and a musical performance.
Higgins said in an interview that the event hoped to increase representation for people with disabilities.
“We are the largest marginalized group, spanning all race, ethnicity, age, gender identity, sexual orientation,” Higgins said. “Twenty-six percent of people in the U.S. experience disability.”
“We are here, we want to be heard, we want to be seen, and we want to be included. And that's really what this is all about: representation and inclusion,” she added.
Director of the University Disability Access Office Grace Moskola, who helped organize the event, said there is “power in identifying as disabled.”
Harvard held a similar event for Disability Awareness Month in July. The organizers decided to host a second celebration in the fall while students are on campus and hope to turn both into annual traditions.
The event also featured booths hosted by Harvard and Boston-area organizations with resources for people with disabilities and allies.
Higgins said she had a positive experience organizing the event with a team of “incredible people helping and leading the charge.”
“We have twenty-seven organizations and groups represented here today, which is really terrific,” she said.
Director of University Disability Resources Kate Upatham, who delivered an opening speech, said in an interview that the event offers an opportunity for all to celebrate disability.
“It's a great opportunity to just celebrate disability and have an event where everybody is welcome: people with disabilities and allies are welcome,” Upatham said.
Upatham said the event aimed to cover a wide variety of disabilities.
“We've got mental health concerns represented, we've got mobility impairments represented, we've got sensory disabilities represented,” Upatham said. “We tried to have the spectrum there, and then also other groups that support the work around people with disabilities in our community, and student groups as well.”
Grace Givertz, an Allston resident, shared her personal experience living with a disability through a musical performance at the event.
“People who are not disabled have a very kind of boxed idea of what disability looks like,” Givertz said.
“I just think it’s important to be visible and to give voices for people who don’t usually have them,” she added.
Though this is the first event of its kind, Higgins said she hopes it will leave a lasting legacy.
“I've been hearing wonderful stories about people who just feel so connected to this community today and that didn't necessarily have those feelings before,” Higgins said. “That's what we want to see as a result of these events.”
—Staff Writer Darley A. C. Boit can be reached at darley.boit@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
More than 3,500 Harvard clerical and technical workers signed onto a letter calling on the University to agree to wage increases this week amid contract negotiations between the school and their union.
The statement, which was sent to many of Harvard’s top administrators, comes as the Harvard Union of Clerical and Technical Workers is bargaining for a new contract. HUCTW, founded in 1989, represents roughly 5,000 Harvard employees.
“HUCTW members are struggling with severe pressures and painful choices in their family budgets as a result of rapidly increasing costs,” the letter said. “At present, proposals being put forward by University negotiators do not come close to providing that kind of financial security – on the contrary, management proposals would leave Harvard staff falling back significantly in their standard of living.”
In total, more than 4,300 people signed onto the letter, which features photographs of union members and supporters holding signs explaining why “we need a fair raise.”
Harvard’s vice president for human resources, Manuel Cuevas-Trisán, confirmed the school received the letter in a message to HUCTW’s executive director Bill Jaeger.
“We realize there are important issues at stake in our negotiations and look forward to resolving them in good faith in the near future with the support of the mediator,” Cuevas-Trisán wrote. “As always, we appreciate the contributions of HUCTW members to the Harvard community.”
Contract negotiations between HUCTW and the University have stalled in recent weeks over wage disagreements. After HUCTW’s contract with the University expired on Sept. 30, the two sides extended the current agreement until a new one is ratified.
“As vital community members who work to advance Harvard’s mission, we deserve salaries which allow us to keep up with the cost of living and make financial progress,” the union’s letter said.
The union held a pair of rallies calling for wage increases on Wednesday afternoon. Standing in the rain outside of the Science Center and the Harvard Kennedy School, union members displayed signs and passed out pamphlets advocating for increased pay.
“We’re having a lot of trouble understanding the University’s perspective,” said HUCTW President Carrie E. Barbash. “They seem to be focusing on how they compare with other employers.”
“People are really struggling, and it’s hard to understand why that wouldn’t take priority over their competitiveness with other universities,” she said.
Jaeger said the union will “have to be bold on both sides of the negotiating table.”
“This is a negotiation that’s running into some trouble,” Jaeger said. “We want to broaden the conversation and ask people of influence within the University to understand the issues in a bit more detail and help us try to find a way through it.”
—Sophia Scott can be reached at sophia.scott@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @ScottSophia_.
—Claire Yuan can be reached at claire.yuan@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @claireyuan33.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Former U.S. Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Julián Castro discussed post-pandemic living conditions of American urban areas at a Harvard Law School lecture on Wednesday, affirming that “cities can come back even stronger” after Covid-19.
Castro, the former mayor of San Antonio and a Harvard Law School alum, lectured at the culmination of his stint as the Klinsky Professor of Practice for Leadership and Progress, a position endowed in 2013 and designed to bring leaders outside conventional legal fields to the school. Past occupants of the professorship have hailed from Congress and the Federal Communications Commission.
“The pandemic exposed the deep inequality in our society,” Castro said in an interview with The Crimson. “Perhaps the best place to start addressing that is in local communities, where we can still innovate and get great policy changes made.”
Delaney P. King, a third-year HLS student in Castro’s course, said she appreciated “the way Secretary Castro talked about the tenets of law and that connection to making good policy.”
“What resonated for me is the link between public policy leadership and law, because I think law school is a pretty traditional field,” King said.
For years, the National Low Income Housing Coalition had published that workers earning minimum wage full-time could not afford two bedroom apartments in any US county, according to Castro.
“If we define affordability by spending up to one-third of their income on rent, recently, that same group found that only in seven percent of counties could they afford the rent on a one-bedroom apartment,” Castro said during the event.
Beyond affordability, Castro also drew attention to gaps in life quality and education during his lecture.
“Countless analyses have documented gaps in education outcomes, health outcomes, economic outcomes based on where people live, and also based on their background,” Castro said. “Just today, it was reported that in New York City, 104,000 students are homeless.”
Castro drew direct attention to the financial burden created by the pandemic.
“On top of those challenges, we saw challenges related to tax revenue that dried up. Probably the hardest hit industry was the hospitality industry,” Castro said.
As a solution to “not-in-my-backyard-ism” — a term used for resident opposition to the development of local affordable housing — Castro encouraged city council members and local representatives to “buck customs that have developed in politics that harm our ability to create opportunity for lower-income Americans.”
Castro also advised city governments to stop the “encroachment on authority” of state legislatures and “bolster their relationships with state governments.”
Still, Castro expressed hope for the future.
“These are the challenges of today — they are long-standing ones,” Castro said. “They’re exacerbated by Covid, as I said, but cities also have in this moment, I believe, a unique and powerful opportunity to achieve greater equity for their residents.”
In a final address to the audience, Castro called on current students to fight against the deterioration of urban areas.
“My hope for you, the students, is that you will get to apply all of that and your own personal talents to helping American cities to become stronger and more equitable and places of wonderful opportunity,“ Castro said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Anthony S. Fauci, who has led the United States government’s response to Covid-19, reflected on his five-decade career in public service during a Harvard Institute of Politics forum on Wednesday.
Fauci, who serves as President Joe Biden’s chief medical advisor and the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, is set to step down from his current roles in December. But he said in an interview with The Crimson prior to the event that he plans to stay active even after his departure.
“What I have to offer is experience and judgment, and that’s what I'd like to do — is to inspire young people,” Fauci said. “I am not retiring in the sense of playing golf or something.”
The event was moderated by AIDS and LGBTQ+ rights activist Peter Staley.
Fauci discussed the government’s response to Covid-19 at the start of the pandemic in January 2020, including his statements about masking. Fauci said he initially advised against wearing a mask, but changed his messaging after new data indicated it could prevent the spread of the disease.
“In science, which I'm sure most people in this audience know — it's a self-correcting process,” Fauci said during the event. “You have an obligation as a scientist to change what you're saying about something based on the data. And that’s what we did.”
Throughout the forum, Fauci said partisanship impacted the country’s pandemic response.
“When you politicize something, almost by definition, you have ideological differences,” he said. “That was, I believe, really one of the reasons why we had a less-than-optimal public health response to Covid.”
Regarding U.S. Senator Rand Paul (R-Ky.), whom Fauci publicly clashed with during several Capitol Hill hearings, Fauci said Paul and others were politicizing the pandemic, which he deemed unacceptable.
“I think the thing that's important is that what he and others are doing is politicizing a very serious situation that the American public is facing,” he said “It’s the historic pandemic, the likes of which we haven't seen in 100 years. And to politicize it is really unacceptable.”
Fauci discussed his experience working with policymakers throughout his career.
“One of the things that I had to do from the very beginning was make up my mind that as a physician and a scientist, the thing that matters is truth and reality,” he said. “If you’re going to deal, on a public policy level, with people like elected officials — presidents and the senior staff around them — you’ve got to make up your mind that you will always tell the truth, even if the truth is inconvenient.”
In the interview prior to the event, Fauci also discussed the impact misinformation has on public health.
“The striking thing that we're dealing with now is what I call the normalization of untruth, which means there is so much misinformation and deliberate lying going on that it is now accepted as normal,” he said.
As for the possibility of a future pandemic, Fauci said in the event that he remains uncertain of the country’s preparedness to handle one.
“How do we get the general public to be committed to the long-term investment in preparation for something that hasn't happened yet?” he asked. “I think that's really a tough one. I hope we can deal with it, but I'm not sure we can.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
When Harvard and MIT last year sold edX, the online course provider they jointly launched in 2012, the University’s top administrators said the change of hands would ensure the sustainability of the venture’s mission for years to come.
“It extends and improves the freely available open source platform that has become the foundation for innovations in technology-enabled teaching and learning among institutions and individuals, and it promises the advancement of new learning experiences and platforms,” Harvard President Lawrence S. Bacow and Provost Alan M. Garber ’76 said of the agreement in June 2021.
In its nine years under Harvard and MIT, edX — founded to make premiere college courses accessible to digital learners everywhere — grew to include more than 3,000 courses, with 39 million participants around the globe.
But in the period since the sale was announced, the education technology firm that bought edX for $800 million, 2U Inc., has seen the price of its shares plummet by more than 86 percent and cut 20 percent of its budgeted personnel costs.
The company says the cuts do not affect edX, which it is restructuring to center around. Anant Agarwal, an MIT professor who co-founded edX a decade ago and now serves as 2U’s chief platform officer, wrote in a statement that 2U is transitioning “to operate as one unified brand on one platform–edX.”
“This pivotal shift includes embracing one unified product and marketing strategy, a new model for our partners that builds on our shared mission, and a simplified organizational structure,” he wrote.
“Very few legacy edX employees were impacted” by the layoffs that are occurring amid the overall restructuring, according to Agarwal.
“As we shared on our last earnings call, operating as one powerful brand on one platform, the company will be able to pursue sustainable profitability, while building a stronger, more agile business that will drive the future of education,” Agarwal wrote.
At a July earnings call, 2U CEO and co-founder Chip Paucek said the company’s financial struggles were a reflection of “a strong job market and rising inflation” decreasing “organic demand in online education, particularly higher education,” according to EdScoop.
Agarwal maintains that “2U is in a strong financial position,” citing the company’s projection from July that it will make approximately $110 million in profits by the end of this fiscal year.
2U “made a legally binding commitment to preserve and advance edX’s founding mission” when it acquired the nonprofit, Agarwal wrote, including continuing the free track to audit courses, protecting data privacy for individual edX users, and safeguarding the intellectual property rights of faculty and schools.
The company’s competitors have also struggled over the past year. Coursera, which went public in spring 2021, has seen its stock price drop almost 71 percent since June 2021. Shares of Udacity, which is still a privately held startup, may have fallen as much as 50 percent, according to leaked secondary market data obtained by Insider.
Jefferson D. Pooley ’98, a professor of Media and Communication at Muhlenberg College, said the valuation of some online learning companies rose dramatically during the pandemic on the basis that they would prompt “transformative change” within education as a whole.
“Some of that momentum that indeed led 2U to provide $800 million [to buy edX] has sapped out at least of the market,” Pooley said. “These publicly traded companies — which 2U is one of — have seen their market shares decline pretty dramatically.”
Some of 2U’s critics say the flaws in edX’s model go beyond the firm’s recent financial struggles.
“edX was founded on a faulty premise that taped lectures from big name professors were somehow better than the direct attention of professors in every sphere of American higher education,” said Colorado State University-Pueblo History professor Jonathan Rees. “I think the fact that edX sold itself off to 2U is a sign that that premise was incorrect — and I believe that premise will remain incorrect.”
2U, which was founded in 2008 and went public in 2014, started as a company providing technical support for educational institutions to run online courses. Acquiring edX allowed 2U to scale up its own online class offerings, adding approximately 3,300 courses to its catalog.
Pooley said 2U purchased edX “primarily for the large user base that they could upsell and monetize.”
“The whole sale itself was a betrayal and a fundamentally misguided choice by Harvard and MIT to betray, in my view, the trust that faculty and students put into it when they signed onto the platform,” he said.
But Raymond Schroeder, a professor emeritus at the University of Illinois Springfield who serves as a senior fellow at the University Professional and Continuing Education Association, said edX’s shift away from its nonprofit status has not materially changed its offerings.
“It seems that edX is continuing to provide courses that are available, essentially free,” Schroeder said.
Since the acquisition, more than 5 million users have joined edX, according to Agarwal, who noted that the company has added many new course offerings.
Rees said that the dual incentives to maximize revenue and reach as many users as possible can dilute the time professors spend interacting directly with students.
“Scaling a good education will never work,” Rees said.
Correction: October 27, 2022:
A headline on a previous version of this article incorrectly labeled 2U a startup company.
Editor’s Note: This article has been updated to include an additional statement from 2U Chief Platform Officer Anant Agarwal.
—Staff writer Cara J. Chang can be reached at cara.chang@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @CaraChang20.
—Staff writer Isabella B. Cho can be reached at isabella.cho@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @izbcho.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Coming off its most lopsided defeat in more than five years, it is crunch time for Harvard football (4-2, 2-1). Sitting in third alongside Yale in the Ivy League standings, the Crimson likely must win each of its last four games to have a chance to win its ninth conference title this century. Harvard’s gauntlet starts this Saturday, when it will travel to Hanover, N.H., for a 1:30 p.m. clash against Dartmouth (2-4, 1-2). It will be another opportunity to avenge a defeat, as the Big Green won last year in Harvard Stadium, 20-17. Dartmouth and Princeton, with dual records of 9-1 (6-1), shared the 2021 conference crown. Senior defensive lineman and captain Truman Jones expressed confidence in his team’s chances on Saturday.
“We definitely know the football that we’re capable of playing,” he said. “We’ve been on an upward trajectory and feel like it just all hasn’t come together yet. … We’re still hoping to maintain that upward trajectory, make more plays, [and] play with better fundamentals.”
The Crimson never got its offense off the ground in the 37-10 loss to the Tigers last Saturday, as senior quarterback Charlie Dean tossed for just 186 yards, senior running back Aidan Borguet failed to find the end zone for the first time this year, and Harvard was held off the board after junior tight end Tyler Neville’s touchdown with one minute, 24 seconds remaining in the first half. Meanwhile, its defense could not keep Princeton off the field, as wide receiver Andrei Iosivas hauled in nine passes for 176 yards and a touchdown and the Tigers earned 469 total yards.
On Saturday, the Crimson will be facing a team that has momentum on its side. Despite getting off to a slow start this season, the Big Green found some success in its last game, a 27-24 victory over Columbia in New York City. Dartmouth utilized a quarterback-by-committee approach in its win, just as it did last year, when Nick Howard and Derek Kyler split reps under center. Howard completed five of his eight passes for 77 yards, while counterpart Dylan Cadwallader went eight for 15 for 116 yards and a touchdown. It was Howard who led the offense during the final five-play, 65-yard drive that led to Ryan Bloch’s game-winning 32-yard field goal.
Howard has built on his All-Ivy League First Team campaign in 2021 with a strong 2022 season, taking on a bigger role in the passing game. After throwing for just 126 yards last season, Howard has amassed 414 in the first six games of the season. But just like last year, when he turned his 125 carries into 787 yards and 15 touchdowns, Howard figures to be more of a threat in the Big Green’s rushing attack. So far this season, he has been stellar on the ground, with 383 yards and six touchdowns in 76 carries. His 383 yards rank fourth in the Ivy League, behind only Borguet and the Yale duo of running back Tre Peterson and quarterback Nolan Grooms. His efforts on the ground will be supplemented by the running back duo of Q Jones, who has rushed for 335 yards in his sophomore campaign, and senior Zack Bair, who has added 321.
Dartmouth’s aerial attack will be led by Cadwallader, who took over as the top passing option after the Sept. 30 loss to Penn. In his first season of consistent action, the junior has been solid, completing 54.3 percent of his passes for 450 yards, three touchdowns, and two interceptions. His top target on Saturday will likely be Paxton Scott, who had his strongest game of the 2022 campaign in the win over Columbia, as he hauled in six passes for 104 yards. In last year’s win over the Crimson, he caught six passes for 60 yards, which was enough to make him the team’s second-leading receiver. There has been a lot of turnover in head coach Buddy Teevens’ receiving corps, however; tight end Robbie Mangas, who scored a touchdown last year in Cambridge, graduated, and that game’s leading target, wide receiver Dale Chesson, has not played since the Sept. 24 loss at Sacred Heart.
The fact that Dartmouth has the 11th worst passing offense in the Football Championship Subdivision (FCS) bodes well for Harvard, which has struggled mightily to control opposing teams’ quarterbacks in 2022. In fact, the Crimson, which allows 272.2 yards per contest through the air, has the worst passing defense in the Ivy League. Senior defensive backs Alex Washington and Khalil Dawsey will hope to rebound from a shaky performance in last Friday’s loss to Princeton, while junior safety Victor Tademy and senior defensive back James Herring will join them in the secondary. Among Harvard’s starters, only Washington has recorded an interception, as the Crimson is tied with Yale for the country’s ninth-worst turnover margin.
Instead, defensive coordinator Scott Larkee ’99 will rely on his front seven to slow down Dartmouth’s rush-centered offense. Despite allowing Princeton to rush for 191 yards last week, Harvard still holds the eleventh-best rushing defense in the FCS, allowing a paltry 95.7 yards per game. The run-stopping unit is led by junior defensive tackle Thor Griffith, who ranks second on the team in tackles with 31 despite not recording one in the 41-25 win over Howard on Oct. 15. Joining Griffith on the defensive line are seniors Nate Leskovec, whose 4.5 sacks this season all came in the 28-21, season-opening win over Merrimack, and Truman Jones, who has recorded at least half a sack in each of the past four games. Behind them, junior linebacker Matt Hudson had a career-best game last weekend, adding ten tackles to pace the team, and senior linebacker Jack McGowan has 30 tackles and three pass deflections.
“As a [defensive] line, just focusing on our techniques and really patch those moves, playing with better hands, as well as getting a read on what the guy across from us is doing, so we can anticipate and get a better jump on the ball,” said Jones of his team’s keys to success this weekend.
For the Crimson to win on Saturday, though, it will need more variety out of its offense. After spreading around the ball and getting his primary deep threat, sophomore wide receiver Ledger Hatch, involved in the early part of the season, Dean relied primarily on senior wide receiver Kym Wimberly and junior tight end Tyler Neville in the loss to Princeton. Dean has done a tremendous job protecting the ball this season, throwing just two interceptions, both of which came in the season opener. He has been aided all year by the sure-handed Wimberly, who leads the Ivy League in catches with 45 and his 528 receiving yards ranks third in the conference, behind the Tigers’ Iosivas and Dylan Classi. But for Harvard to succeed against the Big Green defense, the passing game will have to be more varied, as head coach Tim Murphy alluded to after the defeat.
“We need to distribute the ball for a lot of reasons,” he said. “One is just to make yourself as unpredictable as you possibly can, and also don’t allow them to double-cover our best guys.”
Borguet will also hope to bounce back after a relatively shaky game against Princeton – by his lofty standards. After taking 104 carries for 620 yards and seven touchdowns in the first five games of the season, he was kept out of the end zone on his 15 carries, totaling 96 yards. An Oct. 20 addition to the watchlist for the Walter Payton Award, which honors collegiate football’s top offensive player, the senior has been the focal point of the Harvard offense all season, accounting for 31.2 percent of the Crimson’s plays through the first six games.
Borguet can expect to put up a stronger performance against a Dartmouth defensive front that ranks as the second-worst rushing defense in the Ivy League. In a conference where coaches typically prioritize stopping the run, opposing backs have gouged the Big Green for 166 yards per game on the ground. Dartmouth’s defense features breakout linebacker Macklin Ayers, who saw play time sparingly as a sophomore in 2021 before ranking second in the FCS with 60 tackles in just five games. He put up a monster 16-tackle performance at Yale before missing the Columbia contest. Additionally, Harvard will have to contend with a familiar foe in safety Quinten Arello, who recorded an interception in last year’s victory and ranks third on the team with 41 tackles. Like the Crimson, though, the Big Green has struggled with takeaways this season, nabbing just three picks in 2022 so far.
All time, Harvard has a dominant record against Dartmouth, winning 71 out of the previous 124 contests. However, the teams have been more evenly matched in recent years, as the Big Green has claimed each of the last three games against the Crimson, including a last-minute victory on a Hail Mary pass in 2019, which portended Harvard’s five-game losing streak to end that season.
The Crimson will have a lot riding on the line on Saturday – redemption for narrow losses in each of the past three games between the teams and a chance to get back into the conference title chase. Harvard fans can catch the game on ESPN+ or NESN+ or hear it over the radio on WRCA at 1330 AM, 105.1 FM, or 92.9 FM-HD2.
–Staff writer Jack Silvers can be reached at jack.silvers@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @JackSilvers5.
–Staff writer Griffin Wong can be reached at griffin.wong@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @Wong_THC.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Here is my attempt to explain why October seems to universally be the emotional trough of the Harvard year. It’s like the February of the fall semester, but worse. At least February is consistent — dark, gloomy, cold as fuck. October is less predictable, and therefore more scary. BOO, it’s the ghost of your healthy mental state past.
Midterms Season
Midterms season never really ends here, but October is where it peaks in its most painful capacity. Right when you start feeling like you’re out of the woods — nope. One more MCB 63 test. Another Orgo exam on the horizon. A group project prospectus that is doing anything but coming together. Back into the thicket. Pure panic.
Social Tensions are High
It’s past the point in the start of the year where everyone has to be nice to each other. You probably have introduced yourself to everyone in your classes and are settled into your daily routines. And it’s before the time in the year where everyone decides to loosen up and just vibe. It’s hard to explain this phenomenon, but I do believe it exists. Expect a few extra “what’s your name again” questions this month. Don’t take it personally, it’s just part of the mental, emotional, and social trough!
The Weather is Rogue
I can’t decide what to wear. Do I wear a coat? Just a sweater? Do I need to wear a tank top underneath my sweater for when I inevitably start overheating due to midterms stress? It’s raining. Umbrellas are embarrassing to carry. It’s not cold enough to wear a coat. When I wear a hood, my head could be mistaken for Humpty Dumpty on his day off. Too many considerations.
Cuffing Season
Self-explanatory.
It’s Getting Dark Out
The sun is starting to set around the same time as the start of dhall dinner, and this is just no good. I think we, as a population, tend to do a lot better when we have our feeding time before it’s dark. On the flip side, there is one more comment to add to your routine small talk with your class acquaintances. Forget “I’m so tired” and “I have so much work,” and throw in a little “I can’t believe how early it’s getting dark out” for fun. You’re bound to get at least an “I know righttttt” back. Success.
Friend Group Infighting Over Halloween Costumes
Believe me, planning a group costume is no easy feat. Everyone has different ideas about what would be funny, what would be cute, and what would just be foul. Nobody is ever on the same page. Every time Halloween costume ideas are brought up, the decibel level of the conversation rises at least 30 percent. Lots of yelling, lots of failed polls, lots of panic Amazon orders, and lots of ~highly intellectual~ conflicts.
With all those complaints now out, there are some pretty great things about October. Pumpkin carving, apple cider donuts, candy, dressing up (if everyone gets their act together). And, the best part about an emotional trough is that it can only go up! Expect some peaks coming soon, or at least some marginal improvement. I don’t know anything about astrology (I just Googled “what is astrology doing rn”), but it looks like there’s something about strengthening and a new phase coming, so make sure to put that on your gcal astrological calendar!
