News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
For the first time in almost 246 years since the Declaration of Independence, a Black woman will soon sit on the Supreme Court of the United States. This is much longer than it should have taken, but this is a moment to celebrate. Yet, as is too often the case when people of color advance in this country, attacks against the likely frontrunner have turned a moment of celebration before the confirmation battle into another episode of racist division.
Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson, a jurist and member of Harvard’s Board of Overseers, is considered by many to be Biden’s most likely pick. An honors graduate of Harvard College and Harvard Law School, where she was an editor of the Law Review, Judge Brown Jackson clerked for Justice Stephen Breyer on the Supreme Court and now serves on the most prestigious circuit in the country. She is among the most qualified people ever to be considered as a nominee to the Supreme Court.
You wouldn’t know it, though, from how her nomination has sometimes been discussed. Some comments strongly suggested that the Court will have a less qualified candidate because of Biden’s choice to fill the vacancy with a Black woman. We find it troubling that there is often an explicit reference to Judge Brown Jackson as a Black woman but often none to her professional qualifications. These attacks are racist and intellectually unserious, failing to account for the systemic racism that has kept Black women from the highest courts of this country for so long. Despite apologies from some of her critics, the fact that such language comes naturally to prominent lawyers speaks to the racial bias that permeates the legal establishment.
We must not lose sight of these ugly attacks as we consider the matter of Judge Brown Jackson’s potential recusal from the upcoming Supreme Court case challenging Harvard’s affirmative action policies if she were to be confirmed. The informal rules governing recusal from cases brought before the Court have long suffered from ambiguity, leaving individual Justices to make judgment calls on whether they can adjudicate impartially. We would point out, without making a judgment, that the district court’s findings on Harvard’s admissions policies did not once mention the Board of Overseers nor has Judge Brown Jackson herself yet addressed the issue, making any talk of recusal premature, to say the least.
Against the backdrop of this impossible challenge, it is clear to us that ambiguous rules will always be applied most severely when it is a Black woman on the other end. The specter of recusal has repeatedly been used to cast unjust aspersions on the judicial work of minorities and women. District Judge Gonzalo P. Curiel, for one, faced sordid accusations of unfairness from former President Trump for the grave offense of adjudicating a civil suit against Trump University while Mexican.
These malignant smear campaigns cannot continue, either in the upcoming affirmative action case or beyond. Only clearer, more explicit, more evenly applicable rules can ensure that recusal does not lie about like a loaded weapon, ready to be brandished at any judge who is not white or not male.
Critically, as the racist, sexist backlash against Judge Brown Jackson has underscored, we cannot forget that Black women are relentlessly held to a higher standard in both triumph and difficulty. When they are not at the center of unjustified controversy, they are often pushed into the spotlight against their will, sometimes in the form of being a campaign promise intended to solicit Black votes.
We know Black people and specifically Black women are so much more than that, and we must see and treat them with the dignity and respect that this country has owed them for so long. There is no shortage of highly qualified, talented Black women who would honor a seat on the Supreme Court, and we look forward to the day that we can officially celebrate one of them breaking this ugly 246 year streak.
To whoever has to go through the vituperative confirmation process to make that happen, we wish her the peace and strength this country has too long sought to deny Black women. And, if she is confirmed, despite the manufactured scandals, impossible standards, or overblown criticisms, there will be many more cheers: we cannot wait for the historic moment that she assumes her rightful place, long-denied, on the highest court in the land.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
I never knew that I was ugly. Or, at least, that white society thought so.
Growing up, I had never felt more invisible. My middle school years were defined by excessive in-school suspensions and meetings in the principal’s office. I was a straight A student in a public charter school, but that was impossible to see when my behavior was always defined for me. I was not a troublesome student. In fact, I enjoyed following the rules. So, why couldn’t the school administrators see that? Why was I punished significantly more than other students for the same behavior? During my first suspension in middle school, I did not have the vocabulary to defend myself. I remember sitting at the principal’s round table, hands crossed in my lap. Her office, lacking personal touches and color, mirrored an interrogation room. The door to her office was only slightly ajar, but I could hear everything. It was as if my teachers couldn’t be bothered to hide their opinions of me.
“She’s a distraction during study period.”
“She cannot keep speaking out of turn.”
I was hypervisible – an unfortunate symptom of my ugliness. I was always being watched. So, I sat there alone, awaiting a punishment that I knew would be too strict.
What I did not realize was that the coming-of-age process for Black girls had an extra miserable layer: we were ugly, whether we believed it or not. Tarana Burke describes this phenomenon in a work I was introduced to during my first semester of sophomore year. Being ugly, she said, is the “funny way that some people interact with those they deem physically unattractive … I know this because I’m ugly. At least that’s what the world finds new ways to tell me every day.” For Burke, the ugliness the world attached to her was physical. For me, ugliness spoke to being unimportant, unseen, and unheard as a child.
Black women have been called ugly for longer than we’ve been deemed human. Black girls live in a paradoxical state where they’re too ugly to be loved, yet too sexualized to be cherished. America knows all too well the consequences of labeling Black girls as promiscuous; there is no forgiveness or innocence awarded to Black girls who simply want to be children. Black girls experience sexual assault at a higher rate than their counterparts. In fact, one in four Black girls will be sexually abused before the age of 18.
When I was 12, being ugly meant people did not care to understand me or hear me. Nobody believed that I could be a rule-abiding student, even though I valued my education. As Black girls, we didn’t have the luxury of making mistakes. Now, as an almost 20 year-old woman studying at Harvard, I’m still proving myself. I find romantic relationships difficult to navigate because I am hypersexualized. The ugliness that was once attached to my body has morphed into lust.
Black women exist in a space between femininity and masculinity that denies us access to either. For Black women, “ugly” means something deeper. It means that we aren’t seen as fully human and, therefore, we do not fit into the Eurocentric construct of gender. It also means that other people define us before we get to define ourselves.
White society never misses a chance to remind Black women that they’re the most disrespected group in America. I refuse to continue the cycle of perpetuated violence against other women who look like me, so I’m done listening. To be a Black girl in America is to trust that you’re beautiful when the world covers the mirrors.
Black girls, I see you. And, more importantly, I am not afraid to look at you.
Ebony M. Smith ’24, a Crimson Editorial editor, is a joint concentrator in Government and African & African American Studies in Eliot House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
It’s a lovely day at work on your idyllic little island. You always get to be outside in the beautiful countryside, until one day you feel unwell and unable to work. Naturally, your boss shuts you up in a tunnel for days on end. Right?
Henry, a green steam engine, is punished in this manner in his introductory episode in “Thomas and Friends,” and it is standard fare on the Island of Sodor. In almost every episode, trains are penalized in a similar manner, usually to the amusement and mockery of the other trains. When Henry feels unable to continue working on just one occasion, the controller, Sir Topham Hatt, builds a very real — and petty — brick wall to trap Henry in the tunnel. He even dramatically informs him that “we will leave you here for always and always and always,” so long as Henry fails to labor for him.
On the Island of Sodor, Henry’s cardinal sin was feeling unable to work. The narrator soberly proclaims “I think he deserved his punishment, don’t you?”, making it clear that the audience is expected to agree with Henry’s fate. In the world of “Thomas and Friends,” there is no greater insult than not being useful. The trains behave like people, experiencing emotions, forming friendships, and teasing outsiders (the troublesome trucks). They happily explore their island and enjoy completing different tasks, but the threat of punishment constantly looms over their heads. In some cases, they are even threatened with capital punishment—being sent to the scrapyard—for a lack of productivity.
Instead of bemoaning the strict rules and punishments of Sir Topham Hatt, the trains genuflect to him (or they would if they had knees) and urge each other to be more useful as well. Thomas believes he works harder than all of the other engines, making him better than them, and taunts Gordon to work hard just like him. In one case, Sir Topham Hatt praises Thomas by proclaiming that he has finally been a “really useful engine,” for doing his bidding and Thomas beams, his eyes spinning around in utter glee. On the Island of Sodor, the trains derive all satisfaction from the approval of their boss and the revenue they generate for his railroad.
The root of this motivation lies in the way our western societies operate. Capitalism pervades our inner motivations in almost every situation. Workers are measured by the amount of revenue they generate for a company, and those who underperform are let go. They fear the watching eye of the boss, the controller, “the man.” In “Thomas and Friends,” “the man” sports a top hat and is a source of humor for viewers, but the genuine adulation the trains show him creates harmful perceptions that workers should love what they do to death, literally. To the trains, there is nothing worse than the phrase “Sir Topham Hatt was cross,” which is always accompanied by a sinister little riff to signal the controller’s arrival.
Encouragement to work hard may seem like a positive trait to instill within children. But in the atmosphere surrounding Thomas and his friends, the encouragement seems a lot more like a threat. The trains must choose between working to exhaustion to earn revenue or having no place in their society, especially socially. Even after Henry is freed from the tunnel, he worries that he “shall have to go away” for not being useful enough one day, despite trying his hardest. For every load of coal the humanesque trains deliver, they deliver the message that self-worth can be equated with productivity as well.
In fact, the only people seemingly exempt from this treatment in our world are children, who are ostensibly encouraged to play and seek happiness above all else. Even as they learn about the world in school, it is as a backdrop to personal enrichment, at least at a young age. So, when children watch their beloved trains view their lives through the lens of productivity and feel that they deserve punishment for pauses in labor, how can they resist viewing their own world the same way? Thomas and company indoctrinate children with a love of forced labor that urges them to shape their entire lives around work, just as the engines do.
The intentional messaging of the show is standard, encouraging children to work together and find creative solutions to problems. But underlying it all is the same message that we face every day from every facet of our society: the capitalist pressure to work for revenue above all else. By the end of the story, the narrator smugly informs us that Henry has learned the best way to deal with feeling unwell is to ask his driver to stop and wipe him down only “when the day’s work is over,” when he has satisfied the controller. I think he deserves more than that, don’t you?
Nour L. Khachemoune ’22-’23 is a joint concentrator in Chemistry and Anthropology in Dunster House. Her column “Nostalgia: What’s it Hiding?” appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
In 2020, Harvard University rebranded the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study as the “Harvard Radcliffe Institute” — a change which many saw as the latest incident in a centuries-long history of the men-dominated University subordinating the legacy of Radcliffe College, the long-time women’s college at Harvard. Radcliffe College started as a small institute labeled “The Harvard Annex,” and many fear it, and the status of women at the University, has been returned to the status of an appendage.
The Annex is a podcast from Fifteen Minutes, The Harvard Crimson’s magazine, exploring why so often the histories of higher education appear “womanless,” and that of Harvard appears “Radcliffe-less.” With dozens of interviews with alumnae, professors, and more, and covering over 100 years of women’s struggles at, for, and against the University, host Matteo Wong asks: Who has the power to write Harvard’s history, and how is that changing?
Radcliffe College, for many decades the women’s college at Harvard, began as “The Harvard Annex,” both physically and symbolically secondary to the men-only Harvard. In this episode of The Annex, host Matteo Wong traces connections between Radcliffe’s origins and the present-day controversy over the rebranding of the “Harvard Radcliffe Institute.”
See the episode page here.
It was only in 1999 that Radcliffe and Harvard fully merged into one school. In this episode of The Annex, host Matteo Wong continues the story of the decades-long struggle for women’s college at the University, zooming in on the series of “non-merger merger” agreements in the 1970s that in theory, but less so in practice, gave women equal educational opportunities.
See the episode page here.
Who writes Harvard’s history, and who gets to be included? In this episode of The Annex, host Matteo Wong dives into the a controversy in which hundreds of alumnae have accused the University of erasing women’s and Radcliffe’s contributions to Harvard by renaming — or “un-naming” — the Harvard Radcliffe Institute.
See the episode page here.
— Matteo N. Wong is the Magazine Chair of the 148th Guard. He can be reached at matteo.wong@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @matteo_wong.
Sections
An imposing timer counts down the minutes as messages of frustration and encouragement flood the Twitch chat room. The mood is unexpectedly intense for a light-hearted crossword extravaganza called the “Winter Wondersolve.” The three-hour-long virtual tournament is hosted by Boswords, a Boston-based crossword organization.
Boswords held its first tournament in the summer of 2017 in the gymnasium of Roxbury Latin High School. That first year drew 150 participants. This year, there are over a thousand, ranging from beginners to skilled experts.
Originally, Boswords only held one tournament a year. But since the pandemic, it has expanded to hold quarterly tournaments and live biweekly challenges, as well as online events with crossword constructors. Boswords’ popularity grew with the wave of wordplay mania that possessed those driven stir-crazy by quarantine.
Mobile devices have transformed the wordplay industry — a phenomenon best illustrated by Wordle, the ubiquitous crossword-derivative word game that sold for over a million dollars to the New York Times last Monday.
John M. Lieb, a co-founder of Boswords, says Wordle’s accessibility as a free, entry-level, online game has made it a global sensation. Lieb himself became interested in crossword puzzles through the internet — when he stumbled upon legendary crossword constructor Rex Parker’s blog, which releases daily puzzles for free.
However, navigating new technology may pose a challenge to solvers who are used to pen and paper. Joon Pahk ’00, a former preceptor of physics at Harvard, is a Boswords crossword solver and professional constructor —as well as a seven-time Jeopardy champion and finalist in the prestigious American Crossword Puzzle Tournament. “There is a whole wave of mostly younger solvers who are better at solving on a browser window or an app,” Pahk says, noting that his performance in crossword tournaments has suffered in the transition to paperless puzzles.
Though personally challenged by the changing landscape, Pahk acknowledges that the accessibility of technology has contributed to “democratizing the puzzle.” Crosswords used to be “targeted toward a boomer audience,” Pahk says, but the field is starting to diversify due to the “modernization of the kinds of clues and answers that you might see.” Now, it’s more common to see hints referring to Dua Lipa and BTS than it is to see hints about baseball players from the fifties.
Soleil C. Saint-Cyr ’25 — one of the youngest female crossword creators ever published in the New York Times — shares that the solvers and constructors on Twitter are “just very, very supportive.” The diversity of the “crossworld,” says Saint-Cyr, is not limited to identity. There is also an incredible diversity of interests among constructors: “they do everything from creative writing, to bioinformatics, to bioethics,” she says.
Though I did not make it past the first puzzle in the “Winter Wondersolve,” I could still appreciate the elegance and novelty of the game. My problem sets, readings, and classes could wait until I figured out another way to say “it’s a new world out there” (puzzle 1, 43 across).
The answer? “TIMESHAVECHANGED.”
— Magazine writer Amber H. Levis can be reached at amber.levis@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @amberlevis.
Sections
In the fall of 2013, Rose W. Wang ’13-14 and her friend Laura E. D’Asaro ’13 brought heaping plates of fried bugs — mealworms, waxworms, and crickets — into the Kirkland dining hall. They expected their classmates to eat them and report back which bugs tasted the best.
But the student reactions were not what they had hoped. “People weren’t going to eat bugs whole,” D’Asaro says.
D’Asaro and Wang weren’t just offering their classmates fried insects for the shock factor — it was part of their larger mission to start their own bug-based food company.
After graduation, D’Asaro, Wang, and Meryl N. Breidbart ’13 founded Chirps, a line of cricket protein snacks now sold in retail locations across the country. Over a Zoom call, the three co-founders reminisce and laugh about their college days, occasionally interrupting each other with a joke. “It’s a bond you can’t really form in any other way. They’re like my first spouses,” Breidbart says.
Their website describes the company’s origin story. In different circumstances, the three founders had all tried eating bugs and were pleasantly surprised. D’Asaro tasted a caterpillar while doing research in Tanzania. Wang, on a bet, bit into a scorpion while teaching abroad in China. And back in high school, Breidbart had eaten some cheese flavored worms. Years later, they all discussed their experiences and decided to start an edible-bug company.
Prior to founding Chirps, the three friends had already worked on entrepreneurial pursuits together. They’d proposed an idea for a social entrepreneurial backpack company to Harvard’s Innovation Labs, but the idea didn’t move forward in the competition. The three friends went their separate ways, until D’Asaro came up with a new business idea: crickets.
D’Asaro had stumbled across a report by the United Nations Food and Agricultural Organization in 2013 about edible insects. According to Chirps’s website, around 2.5 billion people around the world eat bugs, which are packed with protein, vitamins, and minerals. It takes 2,000 gallons of water to produce one pound of beef, compared to only one gallon to produce one pound of crickets, according to the company website. She sent the article to Wang and Breidbart, who both agreed to join the bug venture.
The three initially envisioned their company selling whole bugs, a popular snack food in many countries, including Thailand and Mexico. But as they ran trials, they realized that many Americans couldn’t get over the idea of eating insects whole. To make their brand more marketable, they decided to crush the bugs up and use them as an ingredient in something more familiar.
“Everybody eats chips,” Wang says, and Chirps Chips was born.
The three went back to the Innovation Labs, where they found the early support they needed. Chirps’s first retailer was Cambridge Naturals in Porter Square, and just a few years later, Chirps was being sold in 20 natural food markets and 73 airport stores nationwide.
In 2016, Wang, D’Asaro, and Breidbart went on Shark Tank, a business reality TV show. The show was a success — they struck up a deal with celebrity entrepreneur Mark Cuban, who bought a 15 percent stake in their company.
Cuban’s investment gave the company a “stamp of legitimacy,” Wang explains. Before Cuban, Wang recalls how the three were unfairly labeled as naive young girls and consequently faced challenges raising money.
“Right after Mark, I was able to raise money on the phone in 30 minutes and close a check,” Wang says. They went from having their chips sold in only a few dozen stores to over 1,500, including chains like ShopRite and museums like the American Museum of Natural History.
Even six years later, people still discover Chirps through Shark Tank reruns, Wang says. In many ways, she says, “Shark Tank is the gift that keeps on giving.”
Chirps now offers a wide array of cricket-infused snacks. They have three flavors of chips, chocolate chip cricket cookie mix, chocolate and vanilla protein powder, and even a “cricket powder” of dried, crushed crickets.
“We’re at a critical point in the history of this kind of ingredient where there's a level of awareness and understanding that is greater than it’s ever been before,” Breidbart says. As the founders continue expanding Chirps — whether it be through brand partnerships or larger product lines — their overarching goal is to make the brand as appealing to consumers as possible.
Chirps appeals to consumer’s desire to “do good” — or, at least, to receive assurance from companies that they’re doing good. “Good for you” and “good for the planet” headline the Chirps homepage. It also appeals to the consumer’s sense of novelty and leans into the shock value of its ingredient. On the front of their chip bags, “EAT BUGS” is printed larger than the Chirps logo itself.
Inspired by Breidbart, D’Asaro, and Wang, I decided to try some edible insects for myself. Over breakfast, my friends and I tested out a bag of Chirps barbecue-flavored chips.
When I opened the bag and took out a chip, I didn’t know what to expect. Before I ate it, I tried to convince myself that it was just another chip. But that was hard to do with the “EAT BUGS” command emblazoned on the bag. I went for it. I took a bite.
Would there be some repellent insectile flavor? Would I feel the ghosts of fried crickets squirming around? Nope. It tasted just like a regular barbecue chip.
— Magazine writer Sage S. Lattman can be reached at sage.lattman@thecrimson.com.
Sections
The old Conductor’s Building on Mount Auburn Street stands as an awkwardly narrow wedge, sitting next to an alleyway wider than itself. The relatively dwarfed structure seems unsure of its own position in Harvard Square, despite its quintessential Cambridge style: old brickwork framed by ledges of concrete. With sullen windows and edges that retract diagonally from the front, the facade seems to apologize for its own existence.
While the exterior of the building remains inconspicuous, the inside has been transformed into a Chinese tiki bar and restaurant named Wusong Road after the first Conductor’s Building in Wusong, China. The interior glows with a warm light that emanates from the elaborate lanterns hanging on the ceilings. Dark wood and red accents contrast the exterior’s exposed brick, a proudly preserved feature of the original space. The upstairs is a carefully crafted masterpiece of dark green, palm leaves, and textured accents of bamboo and straw that evokes a rustic rainforest with a modern feel.
The story of Wusong Road’s namesake is intriguing in itself. The Woosung Railway was constructed in 1876 by British firm Jardine, Matheson & Company — without the permission of the Chinese government. It faced vehement opposition from the Chinese public and authorities, who saw the foreign intervention as a blatant act of disrespect.
Jason Doo, the owner and chef of the Cambridge restaurant, acknowledges that the railway was built “not necessarily for the best reasons — more for opium smuggling.” Though, he notes in jest, “we ignore that part.”
Tensions flared between the two countries as negotiations went back and forth, with the Chinese trying to buy the railway and remove its British influence. Finally, on Oct. 24, 1876, the two sides reached a settlement, and the Chinese gained control of the railway. Though it was profitable, the railway still drew resentment from official Shen Pao-chen, who ordered its destruction in 1877.
Thirty-five years later, in 1912, the headquarters for the Boston Elevated Railway’s 7th division opened its doors. The Conductor’s Building stood as a symbol of the pinnacle of public transportation at the time. It was part of the new Cambridge subway system that connected Park Street to Harvard Square. Spacious work counters, cluttered bulletin boards, and checkerboard-topped tables occupied the first floor. The second floor remained reserved for the superintendent’s office, waiting rooms, and a sizable records cabinet.
The Boston Elevated Railway was eventually consolidated into the Metropolitan Transit Authority, which became the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority. As the organization grew, the Mount Auburn Street headquarters eventually faded from use. For its role in the expansion of the Harvard Square Historic District, it was awarded a place in the National Register of Historic Places in 1988. For nearly 40 years, the relic sat, silently decaying. What once had been a bustling control center of offices, lobbies, and assembly rooms containing the helm of a state-of-the-art transportation system was now a withering eyesore.
Pre-renovation, the building was a “hollow shell,” Doo says. “The basement was full with four feet of water. Everything was essentially just rotted.”
When the MBTA eventually sold the building in 2012 — 100 years after its original construction — its fate was a source of concern for its neighbors. Though it was in dire need of an update, locals were anxious that developers might use the site to further homogenize Harvard Square. A Cambridge Community Television video conveyed local fears that “the money the property could bring in may win out over its historic value.”
In 2012, the last standing memory of the original Cambridge subway system was sold to Carpenter & Company to be renovated and restored to its former glory.
The rebirth began in 2014 when the new owners officially set out to turn the forsaken structure into a vibrant French restaurant. Les Sablons, named after a train station in France, opened its doors in 2017, only to shut them again the next year. In 2021, the building reopened, now branded as Wusong Road.
Along the way, the building’s historic status has proven to be a major roadblock. Extensive state and local government approval is required for each and every change that the building undergoes.
“I still can’t put signs up on my building,” Doo states with exasperation, because he claims, “it takes 150 days” to get new signs approved.
Despite these limitations, Wusong Road has brought an old building into the new age. Tying together a historically important building with a historically fraught name, Doo has designed an establishment that aims to give them both a new life.
— Magazine writer Jem K. Williams can be reached at jem.williams@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter.
Sections
Last month, the Brattle Square Florist nearly closed its doors forever. Now, thanks to a surge of community support and the dedication of owner Stephen B. Zedros, the beloved Harvard Square business is continuing its operations.
When Zedros’s grandparents immigrated from Greece, they opened Gomatos Brothers Fresh Produce in 1917, a produce shop that sold flowers on the side. The success of that store led them to found Brattle Square Florist in 1973, which has since been passed through the family — first to Zedros’s uncle, and then to Zedros and his mother.
The family had owned the business for 90 years before selling it to Randy R. Ricker, with Zedros still staying on to assist with operations.
“My uncle was retiring, my mother was getting older, so we sold the business to Randy Ricker,” Zedros says. “He helped me do daily activities for the store.”
But in January 2021, after nine years, Ricker announced that he had made the decision to close Brattle Square Florist, citing rising expenses and the daunting conditions of the pandemic.
“[Ricker] wants to retire and he’s exhausted — this is a tough job,” Zedros says.
Loyal customers, hating to see the flower shop close, rushed to the phones and through the doors.
“Phone calls were off the hook,” says Zedros. “It was like Valentine’s Day volume, phone calls coming in from people wishing us well.”
Touched by the “huge outpouring” of support from the local community, Zedros decided to “try to set up a deal to keep the store alive.”
“I really needed and wanted to save the store because it’s been my family for so long,” says Zedros said. “One hundred and five, 107 years we’ve been running a store, and it just really needs to stay.”
The Brattle Square Florist is now still in business —, and operations have continued uninterrupted into February, with the busy Valentine’s Day rush just around the corner.
Denise A. Jillson, the executive director of the Harvard Square Business Association, says that this outpouring of support “really speaks to Harvard Square as a beloved business district.”
“When people talk about the character of the Square, some people talk about the buildings and some people talk about the streets, but the truth is the character of the Square comes from its people,” she says.
Since 70 percent of the businesses in the district are locally owned and independent, Jillson says, “the owner is right there at the point of sale or behind the counter, stocking the shelves.”
“It’s the relationships that are built through these small stores — the daily interaction of people — that is just really special,” she says. “And I think that's the magic. It’s the relationships; it’s the connections.”
Jillson also points to the legacy of a store like Brattle Square Florist and the feelings established with the community when a store is around for so long.
“When we think about the Brattle Square Florist, it was the longevity of that place,” she says. “It’s all about the feelings, right? It was the sense of loss that people had, it’s that sense of history. It’s that sense of connection that people had with the family at the Brattle.”
Elaine J. Kim ’23, a loyal customer of Brattle Square Florist, gave the store a thank you note when she heard the news of its closing.
Kim explains that she would usually opt for flowers to show her appreciation, but then realized that Zedros “was the one person in this town that I couldn’t get flowers for.”
Kim, who is involved with the performing arts at Harvard, says she keeps “little cutouts of dried petals and a piece of the packaging” from the store’s bouquets she receives after shows.
“I just associated a lot of warmth and my most special memories in the theater with flowers from Brattle Square Florist,” she says.
— Magazine writer Claire Yuan can be reached at claire.yuan@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @claireyuan33.
Sections
My mom’s favorite story to tell of me is when I was nine years old and on a college tour with my older brother at the University of Notre Dame. At the time, my brother had what we called “Peter Pan syndrome” — he simply did not want to grow up. When my brother was eight, he told my mom, “I like being eight. I think I could stay here for a while.”
I, on the other hand, could not wait to grow up. Along the tour, I was more energetic than my brother; I was mesmerized by the golden shimmer of the landmark dome and the reflections of the weeping cedar trees along the lake. I made sure to ask what the dining hall food was like and tried to peek into buildings as students exited them. In those moments, I could see myself as a college student, making my way through the campus as though I belonged there.
At the end of the tour, I told the guide, “I’ll see you in nine years!” My mom chuckled, and my brother sighed.
College had the allure of adulthood — of independence and maturity, of new faces and fresh experiences. And I wanted all that — but I hadn’t meant to skim through my childhood in the process.
It wasn’t until I reached the end of high school that I began to understand my brother’s reluctance to grow up. During my senior year, I started to realize I hadn’t appreciated the carefreeness and creativity that you can only have when you’re young.
With this mindset shift came a subtle yet undeniable feeling of nostalgia.
Slowly but surely, memories became more distant, regrets loomed larger, emotions intertwined with each other as I thought back on what I could only remember as happier days. In order to combat this during my senior year of high school, I began to adopt a new sentimentality toward things — toward everything.
This is the last time I’ll see those “school friends,” the ones I talk to in class but who will pretty quickly become just another name in the yearbook. This is the last time I’ll get a student discount at the train station. This is the last time I’ll get an extra hour of sleep during daylight savings, I wrote in a journal entry from 2018. Internally, I seemed to notice every “last.”
On graduation day, I told myself I should be excited. I even had a mirror pep talk that morning reminding myself to take it all in — and I did, to a certain extent — but I couldn’t shake the feeling that I was missing something. I didn’t cherish the memories enough. I didn’t spend enough time with my friends or family. I didn’t put myself out there enough or meet enough new people. I didn’t do enough.
I fell into this endless cycle — trying to soak up every moment and every memory to avoid nostalgia. But intentionally hyperfocusing on what I did led to regret. And that regret led to more nostalgia.
***
On the first day of freshman year, I printed out and hung up an Andy Bernard quote from “The Office” that read: “I wish there was a way to know you’re in the good old days before you’ve actually left them.” I wanted to look at that quote and remind myself to appreciate these four years, this milestone I had been so longingly waiting for since the age of nine.
But pretty early on, especially at a school like Harvard, it became easy to fall back into the cycle of nostalgia.
I scrolled through Instagram staring at glamorous, probably edited, photos of friends who seemed to be thriving. I talked with a classmate who told me about how she had already found a mentor in one of her professors. I called a friend back home who sent me directly to voicemail and responded with a “Can I call you later?” text. He never called.
It didn’t feel like I was having the college experience I’d always imagined. Reading that quote before bed each night somehow just made me feel worse. I took it down within the first month.
***
Over time, things improved, and I began to fall in love with my college experience — but my fear of regret left me perpetually indecisive.
After freshman year, I couldn’t decide if I wanted to spend all 12 weeks of summer in San Francisco. Twelve might be too many, but what if I have to go home right when I start to have fun? I might miss out on memories at home if I’m in California for too long, but I also might not push myself out of my comfort zone if I don’t stay long enough.
The pandemic, obviously, made it worse.
Do I take a gap year? I would get another year of college to make memories, but I might not be doing it with my friends. I could take time away from the classroom, but I don’t have a job lined up.
A sense of nostalgia can sometimes be good, but recently, I’ve realized I’m stuck. Stuck in this cycle, switching between nostalgic and regretful.
***
When I came back to campus after being gone for more than 16 months, I couldn’t help but look back on my time at Harvard with rose-colored glasses. After a virtual junior year, I felt the need to pack as much as I could into senior year to avoid regret: every weekend needed to be filled with activities, outings, and memories. I told myself to never say “no.”
But as I’m preparing to graduate from Harvard, I’m finding myself just as nostalgic as I was when I was about to graduate from high school. Which means that I’m not nostalgic because I didn’t do enough in the past — I’m nostalgic because it’s easier to reminisce about the past than to worry about the future.
To combat this tendency, I now consciously try not to think about whether I should have gapped this year or the fun I could’ve had if I went to Crimson Jam sophomore year or what could happen in the future if I had only made a different decision.
I know whatever I occupy my time with is important to me at the moment, and although I’m still working on my indecisiveness, I know that the grass wasn’t any greener two years ago.
— Former Magazine Editor-at-Large Scott P. Mahon can be reached at scott.mahon@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter at @scott_mahon.
Sections
“Front of Holyoke Center Becomes a Hippie-drome,” blared a 1967 Crimson headline. Even in Cambridge, some 3,000 miles removed from the Summer of Love, the reporter’s point was clear: The rich kids in “Truc-loads of mod clothes and jewelry” and poor kids flaunting their “general dishevellment [sic]” were not fit for this part of Harvard. A HUPD officer expressed a desire to “eliminate” the loiterers.
The Crimson writer envisioned an area filled with “clean-cut collegiates,” but the project's architect had explicitly designed the Holyoke Center as a community space. The tension between this goal and its execution has followed the building to this day, even though the Holyoke Center is now the Smith Campus Center and the “hippies” are long gone.
Holyoke’s architect was Josep Lluís Sert, then the dean of the Harvard Graduate School of Design. He anticipated a hub that would connect Harvard Yard to the buildings near the Charles River by way of a ground-level arcade lined with community shops. When construction wrapped in 1966, the hulking concrete mass was unlike anything the area had seen before. The abstract artist Mark Rothko painted a series of murals for the penthouse dining room. Sert called the building a “bridge”; future administrators would deem it “Harvard’s front door.”
But the initial reception was divided. While architects and architecture students appreciated Sert’s innovative Brutalist design, some Cambridge residents were taken aback by a structure that dwarfed its neighbors and took up an entire city block. One critic noted that the end of construction might comfort locals who had seen the eight-year project and “perhaps feared that it would simply continue to grow, like some robust and appetitive organism.” For The Crimson in 1963, “Amdriw T. Wxsl” (likely a digitization error) poured scorn on its size and constitution. “Holyoke Center’s massive concrete face is in jarring contrast with all of the structures around it,” Wxsl wrote, adding that while Harvard had previously built eyesores, “none before were visible from all over Cambridge.”
The ends of the arcade originally opened onto the street but were permanently closed soon after, to mitigate what one writer calls Sert’s “apparent disregard for the severity of New England winters.” This was the first blow to Sert’s dream. As more and more university services took up quarters in the complex, its connection to the city faded. A 1979 article published by the American Institute of Architects recalls that Holyoke transformed Cambridge from a “college town of mostly inexpensive shops and eateries into a high-priced, fashionable shopping magnet.” The Rothko murals became a source of embarrassment, having faded unexpectedly after less than two decades’ exposure to sunlight in the penthouse, and by April 1979 they were placed in storage. A 1988 New York Times article describes the installations as having been “ripped, spattered with food and marred by graffiti.”
Time would further clarify what was meant by “community.” In her memoir, Lauralee Summers ’98 recalls arriving at Harvard and meeting a Korean man named Sam, who sometimes “slept standing up inside Holyoke Center, across from his usual bench. He couldn’t sit because a Harvard policeman would tell him to move on.” In 1993, a Harvard police lieutenant said of Holyoke: “The University is not in the business of supporting the community through homeless shelters.”
Holyoke stood like this for decades, weathering the usual degree of structural decay. In 2013, following a donation from Richard A. Smith and Susan F. Smith, Harvard renamed the building after its benefactors and began a five-year process of redesigning. This renovation replaced the bottom floors with a new, glass-lined, sun-filled space. Greenery now lines the walls. There are courtyards behind glass panels that hold trees native to the area; the trees had to be lowered in. Project directors hoped that the rechristened Smith Campus Center would offer a “dynamic, vibrant, central gathering space for the Harvard community, Cambridge residents, and for the many visitors who visit our campus every day.”
Proportionally little of the remodeled area is accessible to the public. The lobby has a front desk, coffee stand, and a small working area upstairs. The vast, multi-floor commons area plays lo-fi beats and requires a Harvard ID to access. Campus police routinely awaken non-Harvard affiliates who try to sleep in the center in violation of its rules. Two years ago, HUPD officer Anthony T. Carvello received widespread criticism for apprehending a homeless Black man in Smith by shoving him to the ground and screaming at him; it later transpired that Carvello had acted similarly in two previous cases, allegedly using a racist slur in one.
Around the time that planning began on the redesign, the Harvard Art Museums employed a novel technique to redisplay the battered Rothko murals. Retouching the faded areas might cause irreparable damage. Instead they developed software to calculate, pixel by pixel, the color of paint that should have been in every part of the canvases, and used a low-wattage projector to cast those colors directly onto the murals. The exhibit ran for eight months.
Many surviving photographs of the interior as it was in the 1960s were taken for architectural studies and are necessarily devoid of people. The film’s hazy quality accentuates their eeriness. Holyoke feels alternately like it has just been abandoned or like it is waiting for people to arrive, and it’s hard not to see it like you might the paintings that once hung there: either the skeleton of a dream or the beginning of one, rendered in some imagined glory by a trick of the light.
Corrections: February 10, 2022
A photo caption on a previous version of this article incorrectly stated paintings by artist Mark Rothko were removed after a couple of decades in Harvard's Holyoke Center. In fact, they were all removed after 15 years.
— Magazine writer Benjy Wall-Feng can be reached at benjy.wall-feng@thecrimson.com. Follow Benjy on Twitter @wallfeng.
Sections
Sections
After working at Harvard University Dining Services for four years as a KPL — kitchenperson, potwasher, and laundryperson — Andrew G. Knudsen-Jaiman had settled into a routine.
On weekdays, he’d take entrepreneurship classes at Bunker Hill Community College, starting at around noon. At 4 p.m., he’d head to work at Harvard Hillel, the University’s Jewish center, where he served dinner until 8:30 p.m. And on Saturdays, he worked in the Quincy House residential dining hall.
In September 2021, as Jaiman began preparing to welcome students back to a full dining hall for the first time since March 2020, he learned that Quincy would now be the only upperclassman dining hall at the College to serve hot breakfast. But over the course of the pandemic, many employees had retired or left their positions, he says, leaving the rest to deal with the influx of students every morning.
Instead of his usual late afternoon shift, Jaiman started working from noon until 6:30 p.m., and he needed to move his classes to the early morning.
“I had to take my classes this year like 8:30, 9, and then go right to work and work eight hours, and it affected my study,” he says.
At Hillel, meanwhile, one of Jaiman’s colleagues took maternity leave and another resigned, leaving him to pick up an additional shift on Fridays that kept him at work from 11 a.m. to around 9:30 p.m. In preparation for Rosh Hashanah, Yom Kippur, and Sukkot, Jaiman found himself working double or even triple his usual hours.
“Those are days where we work 14-hour days in there, back to back to back to back,” he says. “There was one time we worked 13 days straight before I had the day off.”
Jaiman wishes his managers had notified him in advance of the removal of hot breakfast from other houses. The shortages and change in dining plans, he says, caused “one big storm.”
“They weren’t really like, ‘Hey, in three months, we’re gonna be doing this, so this might be the Plan A, Plan B,’” Jaiman says. “It was like, ‘Hey, [it’s] September, there’s no hot breakfast. There’s no jobs filled at the moment. We’re gonna have to work a little bit [more] double time than usual.’”
The reason behind the staff shortage, Jaiman says, remains a mystery to him. “I don’t know where to put the finger,” he says. He’s not sure “if it’s a Harvard thing” or if it’s a “Covid thing.”
Since the College’s return to a full-capacity campus last fall, Harvard has seen a record-high 1,962 freshmen in the Class of 2025. According to dining service employees across campus, jumping from reduced pandemic services to an unusually full campus has strained their workload after a significant portion of staff already retired or quit.
Some of these issues are, indeed, a product of the pandemic — mass resignations and national labor shortages have been widely documented in the past few months. Others, though, are Harvard-specific. HUDS employees claim that the University’s hiring practices and unsympathetic culture have mentally and physically worn them down.
Employees attribute many of the vacant positions to early retirements; in 2020, 693 University employees took buyouts from Harvard’s Voluntary Early Retirement Incentive Program, a program designed to cut costs during the pandemic. Dining employees across campus chose to retire early through VERIP or simply left their positions, according to Cassie Stapleberg, a Dunster-Mather shop steward.
The University intended to fill some, but not all, of these vacant positions, according to President Lawrence S. Bacow in a May 2021 interview. “In many cases, there are opportunities to think about how work is structured and restructured in ways that will not require that we fill every position,” Bacow said.
In April 2020, one month after Harvard temporarily closed down its campus, the University announced a salary and hiring freeze. “Just coming out of a job freeze, you have to allow the time to go and wait for it to iron itself out,” Stapleberg says. Though that freeze has since lifted, she adds, hiring and onboarding new employees can take another several weeks or months.
Harvard is hardly the only employer feeling the effects of short-staffing. In an October interview, Jason Furman ’92, a professor of the practice at the Harvard Kennedy School, said U.S. workers were quitting their jobs at historically high rates and are slower to return to work. “As a result, employers all across the country in almost every industry are facing labor shortages right now,” he says.
Thanks to pandemic stimulus checks and other government aid, Furman says, people who had lower-wage positions have a little more flexibility in searching for a position and don’t have to settle for “the first job that comes along.”
“Employees, in many cases, especially [those of] lower wage, lower educational background, have less of a choice than they should have, but they have more of a choice than they’ve ever had before,” Furman says.
Some people may not want to take jobs that involve a higher risk of Covid-19 transmission, he adds, a category that includes hospitality positions like dining services. “Workers are more reluctant to take those jobs and have been insisting on higher pay in exchange.”
HUDS wages, however, have not risen to meet the rate of inflation. In September 2021, the union representing Harvard’s dining employees, UNITE HERE Local 26, ratified a contract with Harvard that stipulated a 2.75 to 3.25 percent annual pay increase over the course of the five-year contract, while a November 2021 report published by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics found that consumer prices in the Boston area rose by 5.3 percent in the past year.
Employees that have stayed with HUDS report that the missing hands have created more work for those who remain.
“It’s a lot harder, a lot falling on a person’s shoulders,” says Jordan, a Leverett general service employee who requested anonymity out of fear of retaliation. “You are one or two employees down. It is stressful, time-consuming — overall it’s just chaotic.”
In the Dunster-Mather shared kitchen unit, some HUDS employees say they need double the labor they currently have due to early retirements and vacancies.
According to a Dunster-Mather employee who was granted anonymity to discuss workplace conditions, one person in each dining hall should maintain and clean the hot food line, the soup station, and the pasta station, while another retrieves food from the kitchen. However, they say, oftentimes during the fall semester, only one person was in charge of cleaning and stocking three stations.
Though Annenberg, Harvard’s freshman dining hall, bears the brunt of feeding the record-high number of first-years, employees say many of the upperclassmen dining halls also saw a staggering number of students at the beginning of the fall semester.
According to Jaiman, the KPL at Quincy and Hillel, the students dining at Quincy at the start of the semester far exceeded pre-pandemic numbers.
“We do handle a little bit of fluctuation easy, but not those numbers,” he says. “The shortage of the staff with those numbers is just something that you really can’t keep up with.”
To make matters worse, in October, Adams House closed its dining hall due to a fruit fly infestation, driving students to other houses.
Between a high-density campus population, a slew of retirements, the closure of Adams, and changes in employment driven by the pandemic, employees say they were pushed to shut down some of their services as a last resort.
Several dining halls, including Adams, Kirkland, and Leverett intermittently closed their grills. Annenberg, Quincy, Leverett, and Winthrop frequently shut down their dish rooms, falling back on disposable plates and plastic cutlery.
Because hundreds of dirty dishes tend to accumulate toward the end of dinner service, one HUDS employee described, it’s difficult for workers to stay afloat with only two people working in the dish room.
“You cannot do it,” they say.
Many of these big-picture causes of Harvard’s dining labor shortages — the pandemic, the early retirement program, and unusually high student enrollment — are beyond the control of HUDS. But according to employees, management missteps are making matters worse.
Under Local 26’s new contract with Harvard, HUDS will offer positions to the contracted dining employees who were laid off from the Law School and the Graduate School of Design as part of Harvard’s transition to all in-house dining services. When the contract was ratified in September, the University was aiming to fill approximately 50 positions, according to Harvard spokesperson Jason A. Newton.
However, the process of filling vacancies takes months. Employees can apply for vacancies through a “bumping” process; once a position opens up, Harvard posts the opening in every unit’s job-posting books for seven days and chooses applicants based on seniority, then passes down the list of remaining positions until there are no more eligible applicants. Then, HUDS begins offering positions to external candidates, according to HUDS spokesperson Crista A. Martin.
Stapleberg, the Dunster-Mather shop steward, says this bumping process delayed the hiring of new staff members for several months during the fall semester.
“Not only were we in a job freeze, we just had bumping,” Stapleberg says. “The bumping causes a freeze on positions as well, so nobody can apply for jobs.”
Many empty positions remained unfilled until December, when HUDS held a job fair for the positions left over from the bumping process. It has now offered more than 25 positions following the job fair, Martins says, and it will offer 23 additional jobs through an internal bidding process.
While employees waited for the new positions to fill, they noted that managers contributed to increased stress and overwork among existing employees.
Though some of the other house kitchens were closed during the summer, Dunster-Mather and Winthrop were open and already feeling the effects of a lack of staff, according to Stapleberg. She filed grievances on behalf of other employees against managers who used the staff shortage to justify denying them sick time, dependent well care, and vacation time.
“A lot of us are still dealing with Covid issues with kids in school, so people are needing time off,” she says. “Management gives us a hard time about using the DWC because we’re already in a shortage of staff. The whole slogan of the policy of Harvard’s mission is to be able to balance work life and home life. I think a lot of us are right now finding it hard to access, to find the balance.”
At Winthrop, Carlos A. Alvarez, who had only joined the house dining staff during the summer, says that after his knee surgery began causing him pain during work, management accused him of calling in sick too frequently even though he provided medical documentation. He finally felt that he had no other choice but to go on short-term disability leave.
“It was a day where I woke up feeling nauseous, so obviously working in the food industry, you’re supposed to call out sick,” he says. “When I called out sick, the manager that was at Winthrop House called me, and in the tone of his voice, you [got] some aggression, and he was saying that I was calling out frequently, even though I had valid doctor’s notes.”
The experience felt “strange” and “off-putting,” Alvarez says, because he feels that managers should put their employees’ health first instead of pressuring them to call into work.
In general, Alvarez says that managers can intimidate or coerce many dining services employees into undesirable conditions due to their vulnerability.
“There’s a lot of workers in the dining services, who… get pushed around because they aren’t fully aware of their rights as employees or their benefits or their rights as union workers,” he says. “Due to the fact that English isn’t their first language or their strong suit, and maybe the fear of losing a job, they often take any role, anything given to them.”
Martin, the HUDS spokesperson, wrote in an emailed statement that “our existing team continues to work collaboratively in order to tackle each day’s work while serving and supporting our busy on-campus community.”
Alvarez’s experience is not universal. Many employees have noted that their managers are coping with the pandemic as best as they can.
“We have to do what we have to do to just keep these halls up and running the best that we can,” Stapleberg says. “So I don’t want to put the burden on management when we’re all in the same situation.”
Jaiman, too, says he feels “fortunate” to work at Harvard.
“I go home and say I’m happy to work for Harvard,” he says. “I love talking to students and just being around a place like Harvard is very inspiring.”
Alvarez had worked at the Harvard Faculty Club for around five years prior to joining Winthrop, but in an October interview, he shared his plans to leave the food services industry altogether.
“I want to move away from that environment because it’s just very toxic,” he says.
In the fall, he did. Alvarez began working for Harvard University Information Technology while on short-term disability leave from HUDS. By the spring, his name no longer appeared in Harvard’s internal directories.
Jaiman also doesn’t intend to stay forever. He does video production work in his free time and he’s switching his major to Integrated Media Design. He plans to leave HUDS after he finishes his degree at Bunker Hill.
“That's the goal: to get my degree and then move on,” he says.
— Associate Magazine Editor Meimei Xu can be reached at meimei.xu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @MeimeiXu7.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: February 11, 2022 at 4:25 p.m.
Almost all of the Harvard professors who signed onto an open letter last week that questioned the results of misconduct investigations into professor John L. Comaroff have retracted their support for the message.
Thirty-four of the 38 faculty members who signed onto the letter, including some of Harvard’s most prominent scholars, signed a retraction letter Wednesday saying they “failed to appreciate the impact” their previous message would have. One other professor, whose name did not appear on the retraction letter, wrote in an email that he, too, retracted support for the original statement.
Harvard Faculty of Arts and Sciences Dean Claudine Gay sanctioned Comaroff last month after University investigations found that he violated the school’s sexual and professional conduct policies. Now on unpaid leave, he is barred from teaching required courses and taking on additional advisees through the next academic year.
The initial letter posed a series of sharp questions about sanctions levied against Comaroff, who it described as “an excellent colleague, advisor and committed university citizen.” But professors began to pull their support for the letter after a federal lawsuit filed against Harvard on Tuesday detailed years of sexual harassment allegations against Comaroff — some of which had been reported previously.
“Our concerns were transparency, process and university procedures, which go beyond the merits of any individual case,” the retraction letter said. “We failed to appreciate the impact that this would have on our students, and we were lacking full information about the case. We are committed to all students experiencing Harvard as a safe and equitable institution for teaching and learning.”
The initial open letter, which was sent to Harvard administrators, was signed by an array of well-known professors, including Henry Louis Gates Jr., Jill Lepore, Stephen J. Greenblatt, and former Harvard College Dean Evelynn M. Hammonds.
Harvard Law School professors David W. Kennedy, Randall L. Kennedy, and Duncan Kennedy ’64 all declined to sign onto the retraction.
“I declined to retract my signature because I think the letter was and still is an appropriate response to the actions of the University in the case,” Duncan Kennedy wrote in an email Wednesday afternoon.
Randall Kennedy wrote in an email that his concerns about the University’s handling of the Comaroff case remained.
“The initial open letter indicated deep concern, based on available information, about the university’s treatment of Professor Comaroff,” he wrote. “Of course the signatories did not know about everything that might be pertinent. If complete knowledge was a [prerequisite] for  voicing concern, there might well be no suitable occasion for doing so. No new information about which I am aware erases the [worries] that prompted me to sign the letter in the first place.”
University Professor Douglas A. Melton’s name was absent from the retraction letter’s list of signatories, but he wrote in an email Friday — almost two days after the retraction letter was first reported — that he no longer supported the initial message.
The initial letter sparked furor among Harvard graduate students and other faculty. On Tuesday, 73 other faculty members condemned the letter in a response published in The Crimson.
“As faculty, we should be demanding better protections and more expedient, transparent, equitable, and independent investigative procedures,” the response letter reads. “We must do so without presuming to know the full findings of confidential investigations or acting in ways that intimidate students and inhibit them from divulging experiences of harm.”
In a response sent to the signatories of the open letter last Thursday, Gay warned of “the obvious dangers of an asymmetry of information.”
“Be aware that if you do not have access to the full review, and instead are relying on public accounts relayed through the media or only what is shared by one party to a complaint, you are necessarily operating without a comprehensive understanding of the facts that have motivated the response,” Gay wrote.
Comaroff was first placed on leave in August 2020 after The Crimson reported that at least three female students were in contact with Harvard’s Title IX Office about allegations of unwanted touching, verbal sexual harassment, and professional retaliation.
After the lawsuit came out on Tuesday, apologies began rolling in from professors who signed the initial letter.
“I deeply regret having signed the letter,” Mariano Siskind, a professor of Romance Languages and Literatures wrote in a statement. “I don’t know John Comaroff personally. Initially, I signed because I agreed with the need to establish transparent, fair, and effective Title IX procedures. However, when I read Dean Gay’s response and considered more carefully the letter’s potential effect on those who had experienced sexual-based misconduct, I realized I had made a terrible mistake. I want to apologize to my students and I want them to know that I fully support all students facing the difficult decision to come forward with Title IX complaints.”
History professor Maya Jasanoff wrote that she “signed the letter as an advocate of transparency and due process in university affairs,” but added that she “totally failed to consider the signal it would send to our students.”
“This was a serious lapse of judgment and I apologize for my mistake,” she wrote.
The retraction letter was first reported Wednesday by the Chronicle of Higher Education.
Editor’s Note: This story has been updated to include the most up-to-date version of a letter from 34 faculty members retracting their support for a statement questioning the results of misconduct investigations into professor John L. Comaroff. A previous version of the article included a copy of the retraction letter sent to The Crimson on Wednesday that listed Harvard Law School professor David W. Kennedy as a signatory. In fact, Kennedy did not sign onto the retraction letter. The previous version of the retraction letter did not list professor Lucie E. White as a signatory. She was later added, which is reflected in the updated iteration. The updated retraction letter was sent to The Crimson Thursday morning.
The story has also been updated to include information from University Professor Douglas A. Melton, who walked back his support for the original letter on Friday, after the retraction letter was sent to The Crimson.
—Staff writer Ariel H. Kim can be reached at ariel.kim@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Meimei Xu can be reached at meimei.xu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @MeimeiXu7.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Serious crime in Cambridge dropped by 22 percent this January, according to a monthly crime report released Monday by the city's police department, which showed 47 fewer violent and property crimes than January 2021’s total.
The reduction in the crime rate was primarily driven by a steep drop in property crime, the city’s analysis showed, with 50 fewer incidents of crimes such as larceny, burglary, and auto theft. While the combined total fell, violent crimes alone increased as compared to January 2021 by 18 percent, representing an additional three incidents of violence.
Developed by CPD’s crime analysis unit, the city’s monthly BridgeStat report is part of a broader “data-driven approach” that seeks to identify patterns in crime to better allocate department resources, Cambridge Police Department spokesperson Jeremy Warnick wrote in an email.
According to the report, the increase in violent crime was partly the result of an additional five street robberies from last year’s January total. Street robberies include all robberies against individuals, rather than businesses, such as incidents of “purse snatching” and mugging, Warnick wrote.
In contrast, Cambridge experienced four fewer aggravated assaults for a decrease of 29 percent, per the BridgeStat report. Of the 10 assaults last month, half occurred in the 500 to 600 block of Massachusetts Avenue — an area within the city’s Central Square neighborhood. This reflected a continuing trend of a high rate of aggravated assaults in that area since the start of the pandemic.
Warnick wrote that the high rate of assaults in this area can partially be attributed to the concentrated business district it houses, as well as its proximity to the Central Square T station and local service providers.
Though total property crime rates have fallen, the report highlighted a 5 percent increase in larceny from motor vehicles last month, with a five-year high of 44 incidents. This followed last year’s steep increase in such crimes, with 42 taking place in January 2021 as compared to just 16 one year prior.
According to the CPD report, more than one-third of the incidents last month were thefts of catalytic converters, the majority of which were from Toyota Priuses — a trend that began with a series of thefts in January 2021 in Cambridgeport. Though the rate of these thefts ebbed and flowed throughout 2021, they spiked during the last two months of the year.
CPD issued an advisory on Jan. 6 warning residents about these thefts, about half of which took place in North Cambridge. The advisory went on to explain that catalytic converters, which are part of a car’s exhaust system, are often stolen because of the precious metals they contain that can be sold and scrapped.
The city saw a large decrease in bicycle thefts last month, with a 71 percent drop from January 2021’s five-year high of 38 bicycle thefts. The report said this decline was “likely due to the colder weather and snow this year.” A nor’easter during the last weekend of January brought 14 inches of snow to Cambridge.
The BridgeStat report was a preliminary analysis of Cambridge’s 2021 total end-of-year crime statistics, which showed a 7 percent increase in serious crime from 2020. The city experienced 2,440 serious crimes in 2020 and 2,599 serious crimes in 2021. This continues a trend of gradually increasing crime rates also observed in 2020.
According to Warnick, the total figures from 2021 are subject to change and will not be finalized until CPD releases its annual crime report this spring.
— Staff writer Brandon L. Kingdollar can be reached at brandon.kingdollar@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter at @newskingdollar.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Cambridge Police Department, Massachusetts State Police, and FBI are investigating a Brattle Square bank robbery reported at 1:06 p.m. Wednesday.
The robbery took place at Webster Bank, according to eyewitness accounts on Twitter. The suspect passed a note to the teller requesting money, but did not appear to be in possession of a weapon, according to CPD spokesperson Jeremy Warnick.
The suspect — described by police as a Black male wearing a black jacket and dark pants, standing at approximately 5 feet, 10 inches — has not been identified by authorities, who requested to speak with anyone who may have information on his identity.
Shortly after the suspect left the bank, a red dye pack in the bag of money exploded, according to a photo shared on Twitter by Boston 25 journalist Jennifer Platt-Ure. The suspect then discarded the damaged $100 bills behind a dumpster on University Road, as seen in the photo. Investigators recovered these items from the scene as evidence, Warnick wrote.
Kristen M. Setera, a spokesperson for the FBI’s Boston division, confirmed that the Bureau’s Violent Crimes Task Force was assisting in the investigation.
This was the first reported bank robbery in Cambridge since December 2020, when the city was struck by a rash of four robberies — two of which took place in Harvard Square — in only three weeks. A Boston man was arrested in connection with one of the robberies last February. Prior to those incidents, Cambridge had not seen a bank robbery in over two years.
According to CPD’s monthly crime report, only one commercial robbery occurred last month, targeting a gas station on Memorial Drive. Eleven commercial robberies took place in Cambridge in all of 2021.
Officers searched the area in the hours following the robbery, according to Warnick. As of Wednesday night, police had not apprehended the suspect.
—Staff writer Sarah Girma can be reached at sarah.girma@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @SarahGirma_.
—Staff writer Brandon L. Kingdollar can be reached at brandon.kingdollar@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter at @newskingdollar.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Faculty of Arts and Sciences has identified four ethnic studies scholars and is in the process of “actively recruiting” them to come to Harvard, FAS Dean Claudine Gay said in a Tuesday interview.
After decades of advocacy efforts for an ethnic studies concentration by students and alumni, Gay announced in June 2019 that the FAS would hire three to four senior faculty in Asian American, Latinx, and Muslim American studies by the end of the 2019-2020 academic year.
Due to logistical issues posed by the pandemic, however, the FAS indefinitely suspended the faculty search in April 2020, resuming four months later.
Gay reiterated in December 2021 that there is “no wavering of commitment” in the search for ethnic studies scholars.
In addition to the ethnic studies cluster hire, Gay added in Tuesday’s interview the FAS is recruiting visiting scholars for the next academic year.
“I can’t tell you how excited I am to finally be at this point in the search process — again, knowing full well that there’s still a long way to go,” she said.
She called hiring faculty with a diverse range of expertise the “first step” in creating a representative college environment.
“I believe very firmly that for us to prepare students for lives of leadership and service in a diverse society, to have impact on issues of public consequence, to be truly inclusive as a scholarly community — for all those reasons, I think this work really needs to be more fully represented on our campus and in our curriculum,” Gay said.
She added that the recent $45 million alumni gift to expand Asian American studies will help the FAS pursue its goal of inclusivity.
Apart from ethnic studies, the FAS will begin the search for a campus curator and the creation of a new, formal FAS committee, as recommended in December by the FAS Task Force on Visual Culture and Signage. The committee will include faculty, staff, and students who will act as advisors to the curator.
Gay declined to comment on the implementation of recommendations made by the Tenure-Track Committee last October and the proposal by a committee within the Office of Undergraduate Education for double concentrations without a combined thesis.
She also declined to comment on suspended admission to the graduate secondary program in Latinx studies and the potential suspension of the American studies graduate program, which is currently under external review.
The Crimson interviews FAS Dean Claudine Gay once per month during the academic year. Click here to submit a question for consideration in our next interview.
—Staff writer Ariel H. Kim can be reached at ariel.kim@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Meimei Xu can be reached at meimei.xu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @MeimeiXu7.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Spyce, a robotic kitchen startup founded by MIT graduates, announced last Thursday it will close its Harvard Square location.
The start-up, which shuttered its original location in Downtown Crossing in October, opened its Brattle Street storefront in 2021 and was acquired by Sweetgreen in August. The restaurant will close on Feb. 18th.
Spyce engineered “Infinite Kitchen” technology, an automated cooking system featuring steamers and grills, to prepare its salads and bowls according to customers’ “diet or preferences and ready in minutes,” its website stated.
Originally developed by students at MIT, the food technology service was supported by French restaurateur Daniel Boulud who has run Michelin-starred restaurants.
In a customer newsletter declaring its closing, owners Michael Farid, Brady Knight, Luke Schlueter, and Kale Rogers — self-titled the “Spyce boys” — wrote that they maintained a commitment to “scale healthy fast food and bring some of the magic of Spyce to more communities.”
“While we are winding down our Spyce restaurant operations, we still have a team committed to achieving our mission,” they wrote. “By partnering with sweetgreen we’ve been given the opportunity to accelerate our impact.”
Following sweetgreen’s acquisition of the company in August, Spyce’s menu underwent significant changes to incorporate Sweetgreen offerings.
Georgina M. Younes ’25, who has visited both the now-closed downtown Boston and Harvard Square locations, spoke highly of Spyce’s bowl offerings and automated food system.
“It really just became like sweetgreen 2.0 without actually having to talk to someone,” Younes said.
While Spyce initially planned to maintain its storefronts after the sweetgreen acquisition, when the company announced the closing of its downtown location, its focus shifted to implementing the Infinite Kitchen across sweetgreen franchises, according to its website.
Zoe R. Dienes ’25, who worked at Spyce last summer, recalled her experience fondly.
“The work environment was really positive,” she said. “I was friends with a lot of my co-workers, which was really nice.”
“Most of my job was to just sort of be a face for the robot,” Dienes added.
The Spyce boys addressed Cambridge residents gratefully in their closing notice.
“Cambridge is where we got our start — it’s where the idea for Spyce was first imagined,” they wrote. “Your support has been the sustaining energy that has kept us going over the years.”
—Staff writer Katherine M. Burstein can be reached at katherine.burstein@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @kmburstein1.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
An electric Harvard shuttle crashed onto the sidewalk in front of Tasty Burger and the Garage on John F. Kennedy Street at approximately 6:43 p.m. Wednesday.
Four students and a driver were aboard the Allston Loop shuttle at the time of the crash but all were unharmed, according to Harvard University Campus Services spokesperson Michael D. Conner. Conner wrote that the University is cooperating with investigators to uncover the circumstances that led to the incident.
The Cambridge Police Department is investigating the cause of the crash, which was undetermined as of Wednesday evening. Paramedics, firefighters, and Harvard University police officers also responded to the incident.
There was no structural damage to businesses located at the site of the crash, Warnick wrote in an email. The shuttle veered onto the sidewalk near the corner of JFK Street and Mount Auburn Street, shattering the vehicle’s front windshield in a collision with the Garage, a local shopping mall.
The shuttle is one of four new all-electric vehicles the University purchased last February as part of its goal to become fossil-fuel neutral by 2026.
Amina T. Salahou ’25, who works at the Harvard Shop located near the site of the crash, said she was immediately concerned about whether the employee working during the incident was safe.
Ryan H. Doan Nguyen ’25 – who witnessed the aftermath of the crash alongside his roommate Abhi S. Patel ’25 – described the incident as a “surreal experience” in an email.
Doan Nguyen, a Crimson multimedia editor, said he regularly took the shuttle to class last semester and was alarmed when he saw one involved in a collision.
“I thought, ‘What if somebody I knew was on that bus?’” he said. “I really hope everyone is okay.”
“It was shocking to see a bus, not even a random car, but a bus — a shuttle — which is supposed to be driven by really skilled drivers,” Doan Nguyen added.
—Staff writer Sarah Girma can be reached at sarah.girma@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @SarahGirma_.
—Staff writer Brandon L. Kingdollar can be reached at brandon.kingdollar@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter at @newskingdollar.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
William B. Taylor, the former U.S. ambassador to Ukraine, unmasked the Ukraine-Russia crisis at the first in-person John F. Kennecy Jr. Forum of the semester Wednesday, moderated by Belfer Center senior fellow Ambassador Paula J. Dobriansky.
Dobriansky and audience members grilled Taylor about the rising tensions at the Ukrainian border, to which the Russian military has deployed more than 100,000 troops. The deployment has escalated the simmering Russia-Ukraine conflict, which started in 2014 with Russia’s annexation of Crimea, and is now threatening to boil over.
According to Taylor, Ukraine just wants to be a “normal European country” that gets to independently choose its own leaders and make national security decisions free from any foreign meddling.
“They just want to be able to make decisions that normal sovereign countries get to make,” he said. “And that’s what the United States is trying to support.”
Taylor also praised Ukrainian President Volodymyr O. Zelenskiy, whom he recently met during a visit to Ukraine.
“When I was there last week, President Zelenskiy was eager to demonstrate calmness, leadership, resolve, in the face of this big threat that the Russians are posing to him,” he said. “I was impressed.”
Taylor noted that Zelenskiy said at the meeting he is pleased with his relationship with President Joe Biden but wants the two governments to be better aligned on the question of how soon Russian President Vladimir Putin might invade Ukraine.
“The United States government has been saying it’s imminent,” Taylor said, relaying his conversation with Zelenskiy. “And President Zelenskiy is saying it’s possible, but it’s not imminent.”
Taylor also defended recent Western efforts at diplomacy with Putin.
“I would say that every day that goes by and every week that we continue to have discussions of negotiations about negotiations is a win,” he said.
Taylor added that he believes former HKS Dean Graham T. Allison Jr. ’62 is “wrong” in his approach to the Russian-Ukrainian conflict. Allison argued in his 2017 book “Destined for War: Can America and China Escape Thucydides’s Trap?” that the West should focus its attention on China, rather than Russia and Ukraine.
He also argued that NATO should not bow down to Russian demands, which urge the organization to never accept Ukraine as a member state. Taylor pointed to the support NATO provided to Eastern European countries that joined as member states following the collapse of the Soviet Union.
Dobriansky said in an interview before the event that she thinks Russia poses more than just a military threat to Ukraine.
“Part of this is not just the issue of the military on the ground, the cyber attack that also has been waged before on Ukraine and then most recently on Ukraine — but also disinformation,” she said.
Throughout the forum, Taylor participated unmasked. He said he would use his glass of water “as an excuse” to not wear a mask while speaking. The Kennedy School’s current Covid-19 guidelines require masks in all public indoor spaces, except when actively eating or drinking.
—Staff writer Miles J. Herszenhorn can be reached at miles.herszenhorn@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @MHerszenhorn.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard mustered a late comeback but fell 62-59 to Yale on Wednesday night at a rocking Lavietes Pavilion, a second consecutive three-point loss to the Ivy League-leading Bulldogs (13-9, 7-1 Ivy League). A career-best performance from senior center Mason Forbes was not enough to propel the Crimson (11-9, 3-5 Ivy) to victory as a last second three-pointer from junior guard Luka Sakota fell short, sending Harvard to an 0-3 home start in conference play.
Four days after suffering a narrow defeat in New Haven, Conn., the Crimson again struggled to score and trailed for almost the entire game. Harvard’s only lead came in the first few minutes, when Forbes asserted himself with two and-one baskets and an emphatic block as the Crimson jumped out in front, 7-3. Then,after falling behind by as many as 14 points midway through the second half, Harvard gradually chipped away at the deficit, just as it had on Saturday in New Haven, eventually cutting the lead to one in the final minute.
Most of the Crimson’s offensive success came fromForbes, who scored a career-high 22 points on 8-of-12 shooting and added three emphatic blocks. The Folsom, Calif., native has missed most of the season due to injury but scored almost at will in the paint, especially when he attacked from the baseline and could finish around Yale defenders with a reverse layup.
“I’m obviously coming off a long road of recovery,” Forbes said. “[It] has been an uphill battle throughout the season for me, but I’m lucky to have supportive teammates. My parents have been super supportive and having the coaches believe in me and my game makes it that much easier to just go out there and do what I do.”
But Forbes’s heroics were for naught as the Crimson fell short in its final two offensive trips, with senior guard and leading scorer Noah Kirkwood failing to earn a whistle on his game-tying layup attempt before Sakota came up just short on his clean look from three that would have sent the game to overtime.
Kirkwood again struggled to get going, following up a two-point first half in New Haven with a similarly slow start at home. Harvard’s offensive fulcrum finished with only nine points on 3-of-13 shooting and added just one assist. Kirkwood began to look comfortable inside the arc late in the game, when he worked the ball into the post and generated a few good looks for himself and his teammates, but his three-point stroke continued to elude him. After a 1-for-8 performance, he has hit just four of his last 23 long-range efforts over four games.
Kirkwood’s struggles from three are emblematic of a long-term team-wide shooting slump. Another cold shooting night leaves the Crimson shooting just 29 percent from deep in the team’s last 12 games, a bad omen for a team that has generally relied on three-point shooting to generate efficient offense.
Head coach Tommy Amaker shuffled his lineup early in the second half with Kirkwood and Sakota struggling and for one three-minute stretch also played without Forbes, turning instead to inexperienced substitutes first-year guard Evan Nelson, sophomore guard Sam Silverstein, and sophomore forward Justice Ajogbor.
“You’re trying to get guys to see the game differently,” Amaker said. “We were trying to manage [Forbes’] minutes, at least we were trying to at that point… But the other two kids — sometimes you need to take a step back and see it from the bench and see the energy that other kids are bringing and hopefully fill in from there. It didn’t help them offensively but they did what they could do.”
Nelson and Silverstein joined Forbes as bright spots from Wednesday’s performance, contributing 19 combined points off the bench. Silverstein nailed two three-pointers down the stretch — one from each corner — to get Harvard back into the game, cutting the Yale lead to four and then three inside the last four minutes.
“I cannot say enough about Evan Nelson and Mason Forbes and Sam Silverstein,” Amaker said. “I thought those three kids were incredible for us tonight. I feel horrible for our team obviously, but in particular those three kids who — you talk about putting your heart on the line and playing in a manner that was somewhat of a desperation and urgency, and the team fed off of it, our crowd did.”
The Crimson played a strong defensive game, limiting Yale to 41 percent shooting and the conference’s leading scorer Azar Swain to nine points, his joint lowest of the season, on 3-of-12 shooting. Yale hit just two shots — both layups, one of which came off a Harvard turnover — in the game’s final 10 minutes, supplementing their scoring with frequent trips to the line.
First-year guard Louis Lesmond joined a long list of injured Crimson contributors and did not play, leaving Amaker with the eight-man rotation that he relied on. Lesmond will not have long to recover before Harvard’s next game, a crucial showdown at Penn on Saturday. The Crimson is a game and a half out of fourth in the Ivy League and will hope to stay within striking distance of a spot in the Ivy League Tournament, which will begin March 12 at Lavietes Pavilion.
— Staff writer Lev Cohen can be reached at lev.cohen@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @LevTHC.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard Track & Field program has been in strong form recently, breaking school records and coming out on top in the home Crimson Elite meet and winning multiple events in Scarlet & White Invitational.
Following a cancellation of the annual HYP meet during the winter snowstorm on January 28th, the Crimson runners had a quick turnaround, competing in the John Thomas Terrier Classic at nearby Boston University. In the meet, multiple Harvard athletes extended their undefeated streak on the season. Freshman thrower Kenneth Ikeji, junior sprinter Tina Martin, and sophomore standout shot-put Alexander Kolesnikoff all extended their undefeated seasons in the meet, with Kolesnikoff tying his own Harvard record he had set the week before at the Battle of Beantown meet with a distance of 19.05m.
The following week, for the first time in two years, Harvard hosted the Crimson Elite meet with a field of 15 teams, including Ivy League competitors Yale, Brown, and Dartmouth. The Crimson squad dominated the meet, with both the men and women’s teams placing first overall.
“Adjusting to this “new normal” on the athletics side has certainly been a frustrating experience,” commented senior co-captain Max Serrano-Wu. “With over half the team being completely new to campus and college athletics, we’ve had to put in a lot of work to bring back the team cohesion that got us runner up at Heps in 2020. And while we take things one step further than most teams, we’re grateful to have the opportunity to finally compete as a team again and do the sport we love.”
Leading the charge for Harvard was freshman pentathlete Izzy Goudros, who opened up the day for Harvard with a win in the 60m hurdles and the long jump. The Toronto native set the tone for the Crimson capturing Harvard’s first event crown of the day in the event.
Following Goudros’ example, the Harvard women dominated the weight throw, with sophomore Estel Valeanu placing second with a distance of 17.76m and fellow sophomore Cammy Garabian finishing in first with a distance of 17.44m. In a similar show of force, the Crimson women took the first, third, and fourth place in the shot put with junior Sarah Omoregie leading the way with a throw of 15.12m. In the final field events, juniors Alana Carroll, Kylie Hilton, and first-year Anastasia Retsa took the top three spots in the pole vault, with Alana clearing a height of 4.11m. Both Alana and Kylie were the first Harvard women ever to clear 4.00m, with Kylie and Alana both breaking the Crimson record.
On the track, the Harvard women won in both the 60m, with Martin continuing her season-long dominance in her event, and 400m, with first-year duo Victoria Bossong and Egbe Ndip-Agbor capturing first and second respectively in their event. In the 60m hurdles, senior Jada Jones broke the Harvard record previously set by Olympian Brenda Taylor ‘01. However, this performance was still only enough to net her second place in the event amongst strong competition.
For the men, Ikeji and Kolesnikoff remained undefeated in throws, capturing first in the shot-put and weight-throw. Kolesnikoff’s throw of 18.98m was 0.96 meters ahead of second place and 2.53m ahead of third place. Ikeji with a throw of 21.20m broke his own Harvard record and was 1.78m ahead of second place. In the triple jump, the Crimson continued their dominant form in the field events, with sophomore Sebastian Pereira and first-year Daniel Falode taking the top two spots.
Finally on the track, freshman runner Peter Diebold won the 400m, with a time of 48.90. In the 60m sprint, sophomore DeMarkes Stradford placed third with a time of 6.74, tying the Harvard all-time record in the event.
To finish out their week, a subset of the men and women’s team competed in a number of running events at the Scarlet & White Invitational. The Harvard men captured first in the 400m and the 3000m, with strong performances in the men’s 400m and the women’s 200m and the mile.

For the men, sophomore cross-country standout Acer Iverson led the Crimson to the win in the 3000m and fellow sophomore Greg Lapit pulled out the win by only 0.08 seconds in the 400m. With his time of 46.98, Lapit set the new Harvard record. Diebold placed second in the 500m and freshman Joe Ewing placed third in the mile with a time of 3:58.87, good enough for third and second best in the all-time Crimson record books respectively.
The Harvard women enjoyed similar success across the track events. Senior cross-country runner Anna Juul led the way in the mile, with the team placing second, fourth, eighth, ninth, and tenth behind her. Martin continued her dominant streak this time in the longer 200m event, finishing second with a time of 23.80. Finally, to close out the day for the Crimson, sophomore Eloise Freitag crossed the finish line in fourth in the 3000m with a time of 9:35.17.
Splitting up the roster this coming weekend, a portion of the team will compete in South Carolina at the Clemson Tiger Paw Invite, while another portion of the team will compete in BU’s Valentine Invitational. Despite the challenges of integrating the roster after two years off of competing, the team has high hopes to bring both the Ivy League indoor and the outdoor track titles back to Harvard following the championship seasons for men and women’s cross country team in the fall and the second place finish in 2020.
“It’s pretty simple, we want to bring the indoor and outdoor track and field championship trophies back to Cambridge,” noted Serrano-Wu. “The cross country women did an outstanding job winning the Ivy League Championship this past fall, and the men finished in a close second. The league is the strongest it’s ever been, but I believe that both teams can build on our second place finishes from 2020 and come out on top this time.”
Beyond team goals, the program has many athletes competing for individual NCAA championships in their respective events, something to follow as the season progresses.
—Staff writer William Connaughton can be reached at william.connaughton@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Harvard men are…something. Need to get out of that situationship (because relationships are practically non-existent here) ASAP? Flyby’s got you covered. Follow these steps to lose a Harvard man in 10 days.
1. Tell him you don’t like his start-up idea. 
Even better: if he’s an Econ man, ask, “Why can’t we just print more money?”
2. Or… that you’ve already secured a summer analyst position at Goldman.
He won’t be able to hide his anger.
3. Do not acknowledge his brand new Canada Goose. 
Canada Goose? Never heard of her. You can also try, “That’s a cute new coat, where’s it from?” He’ll love that. It’s not like his parents he dropped $900 on it or anything.
4. Respond with “sorry, my Gcal is too full!” when he tries to make plans.
Tell him that he’ll have to schedule time with you with at least five business days’ notice.
5. Explain that being in a final club is not, in fact, a personality trait.
No Chad, your future employer will not hire you based on how quickly you can shotgun a cheap beer.
6. Deny his LinkedIn connection request. 
Harvard’s hookup to LinkedIn connection request pipeline is real.
7. Break the news that despite what he thinks, he’s probably not the next JFK. 
Too many men on this campus are already planning their senatorial campaigns. Call. Him. Out.
8. Live in the Quad. 
No explanation necessary.
9. Be smarter than him. 
Bonus points if you correct an answer on his p-set. Someone who can make him realize he is, in fact, not the smartest person in the room? *gasp*
10. Develop feelings. 
This one will send him running! Harvard men + fear of commitment = golden couple.
These tactics will scare away your situationship for good.
Sections
Love It: Name a rom-com set during the summer. I dare you. (And no, Mamma Mia doesn’t count) — Anjali Z. Mehta
When I decided to attend college in New England, everyone back home in Los Angeles warned me of the apocalyptic weather. “Dark at 4p.m.” “Constant shivers.” “Avocados not in season!?!” They acted like I was off to a coffee shop that only has dairy milk. I was probably over-prepared for the cold, both mentally and physically (thanks to the five scarves I got for Christmas). Even still, I’ve found that as long as I wear a sufficient number of layers, which you can still do fashionably (balaclava anyone?), I’m never excessively uncomfortable outside. What’s more, I’ve realized there are several, often overlooked, advantages to cold weather…
“Oh my gosh, it’s so cold outside! I swear I’m going to freeze.” Bam! Conversation started. Awkward silence averted. You now have an excuse to talk to your section crush. You’re welcome. Plus, since people walk faster in the cold, you’ll never be forced to interact with that one person you made out with in the Sig Chi basement that one time.
The cold is also a socially acceptable reason to stay in. Binge that TV show. Do some wholesome indoor activities with your friends. Strategically plan a meet up with your sneaky link so they’re forced to stay over during a blizzard.
And let’s not forget the snow. While it can be physically painful to see the same white landscape on the entire student body’s Instagram, the snow brings many fun activities. Now’s the time for intense snowball fights, hot chocolate, sledding down Widener steps, and ice skating in Boston Commons. Perhaps you even take a pensive winter walk. Yes, you might lose feeling in some fingers, but you won’t have to apply blush for the rest of the day.
If you’re still not convinced, just think of the cold as the third Hemsworth brother, a necessary evil that will make you appreciate Liam and Chris the warmth even more.
My friends often ask if I’m doing okay in the Boston chill. I tell them no, I’m not doing okay, but it has nothing to do with the cold.
Hate It: Elsa needs to pack up her bags and go — Fadzai M. Ngwerume
Before arriving on campus, my biggest fear about moving to Cambridge was the cold winters. Back home in South Africa, our winters only go as low as about 50℉, which was cold enough for me. I had never even seen snow before and I thought that Canada Goose was just a type of North American bird. Oh, those were the days. Living in Cambridge has been the first time I have ever experienced temperatures below 0℃ (32℉) and I truly believe that temperatures this low should be illegal. Anyone who disagrees with me can come fight me. Indoors. Where it’s warm.
“But Fadzai, you’re missing the point. Winter is great because you get to be cosy indoors and snuggle up by the fireplace with a good book and drink hot chocolate”. Okay, and your point is…? I would rather be cozy basking in the sun in a park or on the beach instead of having numb toes and feeling like my entire body is being stabbed by a thousand tiny knives whenever I am outside. Anyone who says that winter is their favorite season automatically gets an entry in my Burn Book. I will never understand their desire for cold, dark days, dead trees and wearing fifty thousand layers of clothing.
All the American Christmas rom-coms and songs I watched and listened to growing up lied to me about the snow. The so-called “Winter Wonderland” is fake news. It’s more like a “Winter No-Man’s-Land”. I always pictured snow as being pristine and beautiful and I imagined myself living my best life making snow angels, building cute snowmen, frolicking through the snow and living my most hot girl winter. And yes, the snow is beautiful, but that’s where the appeal stops. No one told me how treacherous and life-threatening snow actually can be. I learnt this lesson very quickly when I was minding my own business, walking down a path and suddenly slipped on some ice and fell to my doom (my knee was swollen for a whole week). I did not fly across the ocean to come to the U.S. only to be sent home to my parents’ doorstep as an ice sculpture in a coffin. Don’t even get me started on all the snow sludge and mud on the streets that makes Shrek’s swamp look like Disneyland.
No one will ever convince me that cold weather is the best weather. As I sit and type this, while defrosting from my time outside, I am counting down the days until I’m not starring in Frozen 3. To quote Elsa: “The cold never bothered me anyway The cold always bothers me everyday.”
