News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
I think I should start by saying: If you saw me sobbing outside of Lamont Library the other day, no you didn’t. From there, I need to inform you all that the orange cat that wanders around campus has magical powers.
The first time he approached me, as I sat unhappily on the steps of the church across from Pennypacker, I thought it was a strange but sweet and comforting coincidence. Between sniffles, I would scratch his small, warm head and watch him dart around looking for mice.
A few weeks later, I was ranting to my dad over the phone about something incredibly inconsequential when I felt something bump against my shin. Who was there? It was none other than my tabby friend — a meeting that was once again odd, but soothing.
A month after this, I found myself standing on the steps of Lamont Library at approximately 11:52 p.m. the night before my midterm paper was due. Feelings of inadequacy were consuming me; I felt like my control of the English language was gone and I just needed to talk to someone. I decided to call my sister. Not 10 minutes into my impromptu sibling therapy session, I heard a small purr. Walking straight toward me was none other than my good friend Remy.
At this point, Remy the Harvard Cat is something of a niche microcelebrity, with nearly 12.3 thousand followers on Instagram and plenty of fans on campus. As it turns out, he’s more than an adventurous little feline who occasionally needs a break from his family — he’s also my on-call therapist. (Kidding. Mostly.)
I’m sure Remy’s appearances at the scenes of my minor breakdowns had less to do with me and more to do with the fact that they all took place within a roughly 0.1 mile radius of his stomping grounds. Still, there is little room to deny the relief that his simple presence brought me in each of those instances.
But Remy’s magical powers have implications that extend far beyond my own situation. His ability to comfort students — even at the most obscure hours of the day — demonstrates the way that animals may function as a valuable mental health resource at Harvard.
Students across campus experience higher rates of depression and anxiety than the national average. A 2020 report from the Task Force on Managing Student Mental Health described a widespread toxic culture at Harvard that prioritizes competition and busyness over wellness. And with the wait time for an initial appointment with the Counseling and Mental Health Services currently at around six weeks, it is clear that the resources Harvard currently provides cannot adequately address the mental well-being of students at the College.
This is where CAMHS might learn a lesson from Remy the Harvard Cat.
Over the last few years, animal therapy has become increasingly popular in nursing homes, hospitals, and college campuses, supported by a growing body of experimental evidence. In the short term, interactions with animals have been shown to relieve people’s stress by reducing cortisol levels. Over a longer period, continuous exposure to animal therapy has been shown to produce similar stress-relieving results that last up to six weeks after the program ends and to improve executive function in at-risk students.
The value of pet therapy is also evident in its flexibility. Some students might view structured sessions with a counselor as another obligation, almost like a different class they have to attend. This can be counterproductive, as busy schedules and floor-length to-do lists are often the main causes of student anxiety and stress. For most people, playdates with pets don’t feel like an obligation.
Simply put: Animals make people happy, and happy students are less likely to fail.
Harvard Medical School’s Francis A. Countway Library of Medicine, which is located in Boston, hosts weekly “Countway Cuddles” sessions on Mondays and Thursdays where students are welcome to visit with therapy dogs. As lovely as this program is, its location makes it difficult for undergraduates to access on a regular basis. CAMHS also used to offer a biweekly animal therapy program called PAWS, but it was minimally advertised, and since the start of the 2021-2022 school year, it has only been offered as a one-time event rather than as a recurring program.
While recent efforts to address student well-being have been heartening, they are not enough. The University is more than aware of the mental health crisis within the student body, and more accessible methods of mental health care need to be made available on campus. If Harvard chose to develop a more robust animal therapy program, it could ameliorate student mental health concerns while simultaneously alleviating some of the load on an already-overburdened CAMHS.
None of this is to say that we should have golden retrievers and calico cats constantly roaming the Yard – it would totally steal Remy’s spotlight. But maybe it’s time Harvard invested in a few more therapists with tails for the sake of student mental health campus-wide.
Sidnee N. Klein ’25, a Crimson Editorial editor, lives in Pennypacker Hall.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Prepare for trouble, and make it double!
At a meeting last week, about 91 percent of faculty voted in favor of double concentrations, allowing students to pursue two majors simultaneously without having to write a joint thesis. The plan also allows for students to count a limited number of credits toward both concentrations.
In addition to gaining another degree, the program allows students access to the advising systems of both departments significantly more than would be allowed if they were only pursuing a secondary.
This policy change is a major win. The new plan allows students to pursue diverse interests in a much more coherent way than was available before. Many students have a diversity of interests — at a liberal arts college like Harvard, with its diverse distributional requirements and a wide variety of fields available for study, it would make sense that a large section of the population is interested in more than just one academic area.
We understand that there are drawbacks to the new system. Dissenting faculty raised concerns about the possibility of the program incentivizing students to take harder courses than they otherwise would have due to pressure to excel, as well as the effect that pursuing a double concentration would have on their ability to take elective classes. We recognize the value of these arguments, and we appreciate that professors care about our well-being and the quality of our education.
But we are firmly in favor of this plan.
Joint concentrations, while versatile, have a significant drawback: they force students to attempt to combine their two fields of interest rather than pursue both independently. Imagine a student studying, say, English and Computer Science. Harvard’s policy, up to this point, seemed to suggest that the best way to combine these clearly distinct interests would be to manufacture an intersection between the two, maybe a computer analysis of fiction. But such an artificial combination takes away from both subjects, which require very disparate kinds of thinking and analysis.
Interdisciplinarity is, of course, a worthwhile pursuit. It’s the foundation of most real-world research, and the ability to combine seemingly disparate subjects into a cohesive solution to real issues is critical for many careers. However, it cannot be forced. As much as the ability to combine fields is critical to learn, students must first learn the foundations of both disciplines individually to fully grasp the power of an interdisciplinary approach. Harvard’s joint-concentration-only strategy was too eager to teach the skill of combination without showing how that combination arises naturally from the work done in the academic sphere.
The new double concentration program is a huge boon for academic options at Harvard, and fills a gap many believe was long overdue to be filled. Although it might increase pressure on students to pursue multiple degrees, ultimately the benefits of the policy change far outweigh the potential detractions. Joint concentrations, while worthy, encourage students to force together disparate interests and disciplines in ways that detract from both the quality of their work and their ability to meaningfully study multiple fields. Double concentrations fill this hole.
Almost every student at Harvard has multiple academic passions. Thank you to everyone who voted for this plan for letting us follow them to the fullest extent we can.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
You don’t need to be a sleuth to figure out that the details included in a mystery novel are everything. The color of a briefly mentioned shirt may reappear 60 pages later, incriminating a suspect after slipping under the reader’s radar. What, then, does it mean when a series focuses on certain details at the expense of others, having them pop out of otherwise spartan exposition?
The Nancy Drew series, with its formulaic plotlines and iconic yellow covers, is a staple of the genre, captivating young girls for decades. The series was created when the publisher of the Hardy Boys series noticed that girls were taking an interest in the mysteries as well, and Nancy’s influence has been cited as inspirational by countless female public figures.
While the presence of a relatively independent female heroine is surprisingly advanced for the year 1930, the creators of the series make sure to reveal their conceptions of women through their writing. Every character is introduced by their physical characteristics, even Nancy’s sidekicks “the pretty, slightly plump blonde” Bess Marvin and George Fayne, “an attractive tomboyish girl with short dark hair.” Villains are also noted to be physically unattractive in humorous contrast, with money-hungry Ada being “very thin and sallow” in spite of the expensive clothes she wears. Nancy’s outfits are also noted with every switch, often multiple times a day, to appeal to young female readers. Of course, Nancy’s independence as a woman must also be explained through the death of her mother at a young age, leaving her free to explore instead of tending to the house or searching for a husband.
Through the constant reference to physical appearances and clothing, the stereotypical interests of young girls are incessantly targeted.
Other details are elaborated ad nauseam as well, revealing more about the author’s desires as opposed to the reader’s. Every day Nancy spends on a case is broken up with references to her meals, while her surroundings and other details are not developed. Sometimes, the effect is frankly jarring. Her housekeeper Hannah discusses a case with her, saying “Nancy, you’ve really made a big discovery,” but says no more as the text immediately continues with “she went into the kitchen but returned in a moment with a plate of crisp, golden waffles.” On another occasion, Hannah and Nancy prepare an ‘impromptu’ midnight snack of “a chicken sandwich, some cocoa, and Hannah cut a large slice of cinnamon cake over which she poured hot applesauce”
In contrast, surroundings and emotions are not elaborated in such detail, with the locales Nancy visits often listed without much explanation. The mystery takes on a formulaic, clue-oriented tone through its lack of character development — an intentional effect potentially included to allow the reader to focus on the details of the case. But the food-related details that are present without fail in every installment create an atmosphere of yearning.
The 1930s-backdrop of the Great Depression does not sharply influence the plot, as there are no references to general hard times. But the focus on lavish meals and the structuring of Nancy’s day around them suggests a subconscious fixation on the parts of the authors. As the series is ghostwritten by multiple people under the pen name Carolyn Keene, one might expect the style to differ from story to story, but the references to Nancy’s luxurious meals, always capped by dessert, suggest an underlying desire for a similar lifestyle. The series is an escapist avenue for the authors and readers. Nancy exhibits no concerns with the state of affairs at the time, and never misses a meal or cuts corners.
During the Great Depression, the American Dream became regular, comfortable meals and fashionable clothing to be changed multiple times a day. Nancy has few responsibilities, instead adventuring of her own accord in the blue convertible her dad bought her and solving cases to satisfy her own hunches. Of course, Nancy’s fortunes did not materialize from thin air, and the series also takes the opportunity to stress how her father, a well-known lawyer, frequently works until the early hours of the morning, has many stressful meetings, and even requires Nancy’s help delivering urgent documents.
Regretfully, the hidden desire is not a simple life where one is free to explore their passions without a constant pressure to work.
The capitalism of American society idealizes a difficult working life in exchange for its fixation on the simple pleasures of meals and clothing. The minimalist descriptions of Nancy Drew create a caricature of what people wished life could be in the 1930s. What more is there to desire in life besides meals, clothing, and the arduous work it apparently takes to make them possible? I can think of a few things, but perhaps the children reading the Nancy Drew series 90 years later will begin to believe that’s all life is about.
Nour L. Khachemoune ’22-’23 is a joint concentrator in Chemistry and Anthropology in Dunster House. Her column “Nostalgia: What’s it Hiding?” appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
In our digital age, I like to think of Zoom backgrounds as the windows to the soul. Whether you choose a preset image to cover up or opt to bare your true background, you reveal things about yourself that would have likely remained unknown in an in-person meeting. Although lacking in most of what we love about face-to-face conversations, Zoom calls are decidedly intimate in the ways that our personal lives peek through the calls we make.
Almost every Zoom meeting I’ve ever joined has been from my bedroom in my parents’ house or my dorm room in Mather. Alongside my side-swept bangs and camera-ready smile, those I’m meeting with can see the posters on my wall, my pile of vintage clothes, and my cat snoozing on my bed. When on display in the background of my video call, these things become just as much a part of me as the upper half of my body.
Ever since I was old enough to use my allowance money to buy magazines in the supermarket checkout line, my bedroom walls have been plastered in posters. As I taped up, took down, and moved around photos, I was altering my external world to match my internal one. Whether it was concert tickets, Polaroids with friends, or magazine pages, the things I hung on my bedroom walls were like little diary entries.
Recently, I’ve been sharing glimpses of my decorated walls to a new audience over Zoom as I interview for summer internship opportunities. Almost every bout of small talk has led to the same comments: “That’s an artsy background…” or “What do you have on your walls?”
I usually jump at the chance to share more about my aesthetic interests, especially when the professionals I’m meeting seem genuinely interested in what I have to say. I’ve never questioned whether I should use a virtual background on a video call because I was excited at the prospect of sharing more of my personality and tastes with my interviewers, even if they didn’t seem particularly impressed by what they saw.
It would be wrong to say my confidence in this line of thinking hasn’t wavered over the course of the semester. A mentor of mine recently encouraged me to maintain my real-life background over a virtual one for my interviews, but only because my prints are cleanly arranged.
“And please fix the one on the end with the corner coming off the wall,” he said, explaining how he had found it distracting during several of our meetings. I was defensive at first, saying, “I have! It’s so close to my pillows, so it never stays up —” He cut me off: “Put a pin in it.”
I understood his advice. If I was going to opt out of a virtual background, my real-life one had to present perfectly on camera. For my next interview, I made sure to triple check my camera’s field of view before logging into the meeting. It felt like making sure my blazer wasn’t wrinkled before leaving the house.
It probably would have been easier to leave my room in the state that it was that morning instead of dedicating precious pre-interview focus to tidying. But I couldn’t shake the thought that, if I did, I would be showing up as a partial self. A blank wall might be more appropriate for professional meetings, and I can see how this type of outward representation of my inner world is not the corporate norm, even in a post-COVID world. But in taking this opportunity to share more of myself with others, I feel as if I can reclaim some of the interpersonal connection lost in a virtual meeting.
By letting someone into my space, albeit virtually, I can share with them how I see the world. A Gwendolyn Brooks poem. Several photos of my best friends. A print of a painting hanging in the Met. These are the things I look up at when I open my eyes to the day or am sitting at my desk with writer’s block or come home spinning after a night of dancing. They are 8×10 renditions of the things that inspire me with new ideas and remind me I’m living a life full of joy and love, even in the moments when it doesn’t feel like it.
— Magazine writer Nicole B. Farina can be reached at nicole.farina@thecrimson.com.
Sections
It’s hard to imagine a more eventful year for Harvard professor and astrophysicist Abraham “Avi” Loeb. He’s published a new book: “Extraterrestrial: The First Sign of Intelligent Life Beyond Earth.” He’s done over 2,000 interviews about it and related topics for publications around the world. And he’s hopped on private jets and schmoozed with billionaires to get funding for his newest venture, the Galileo Project, which opened in July 2021: a center dedicated to unearthing evidence that objects made by extraterrestrial life are in our solar system.
Loeb has attracted attention and widespread criticism for his unwavering commitment to unconventional beliefs. Now, through the Galileo Project, Loeb hopes to provide more concrete evidence for his claims.
Loeb gained public notoriety for his statements about extraterrestrial life in 2017, when a strange object came through the solar system. The object, named ‘Oumuamua’ after the Hawaiian word for messenger, had properties that astronomers had never seen before – it was long and thin and moved strangely.
Thesepeculiarities led Loeb to suspect that the object was made by extraterrestrial life. “Nature doesn’t make very thin objects,” Loeb says. Additionally, he says, all the other “natural” explanations that scientists have posited also involve a phenomenon astronomers have never seen before, so Loeb believes the artificial explanation is just as plausible, if not more so.
For Loeb, the explanation that Oumuamua originated from extraterrestrial life also makes sense because the sheer number of habitable planets suggests there is almost certainly other intelligent life out there. There may be more Earth-like planets in the universe than grains of sand on all of Earth’s beaches combined, researchers predict. “The extraordinary claim is to say that we are special and unique,” Loeb says.
Loeb’s ideas have appealed to several wealthy funders, including Frank H. Laukien, a visiting scholar within Harvard’s chemistry department who made his fortune manufacturing scientific instruments. Loeb has used this money from donors to start the privately-funded Galileo Project. His team is setting up a telescope system on the roof of the Harvard College Observatory that will look for these strange objects, record data about them, and try to photograph them.
For Loeb, looking for extraterrestrial life is part of his effort to “maintain my childhood curiosity.” He says that as a child he always enjoyed asking questions and was frustrated when adults would dismiss them. Now, he wants to know if “there might be smarter kids on our cosmic block,” a question he thinks the Galileo Project may answer. Loeb emphasizes that it’s worth looking for evidence of extraterrestrial life, even if just for curiosity’s sake.
Kaylie S. Hausknecht ’24, who is studying physics and astrophysics, has been helping Loeb with the project by writing code to “predict the properties” of the objects observed. Hausknecht first became interested in working with Loeb after reading his book and admiring how he seemed to care about data above all else.
“He really does follow the scientific method, but he maintains this kind of unbridled curiosity when it comes to what’s out there,” she says. Hausknecht is excited for the Center to open. “As much as people can talk about what the Galileo Project might and might not do, once we have data, that’s where a lot of fun and the science begins,” she says.
Hausknecht is also interested in the project because she thinks that searching for extraterrestrial life is “the biggest question that humanity can ask.”
“We’ve all kind of been thinking about how fragile life is here on Earth,” she says, mentioning the effects of climate change and the pandemic. “So it’s kind of a beautiful and interesting question to look up in the sky, even here on Earth, as some of the parts of the Galileo Project are doing, and think about the possibility of life elsewhere.”
However, many people, from other astronomers to the general public, have criticized the Galileo Project for lacking scientific support.
Loeb says people often criticize his ideas by saying that “extraordinary claims require extraordinary evidence.” Loeb hopes that the Galileo Project will meet their demands. He, in turn, criticizes scientists who “shy away” from studying extraterrestrial life because of public beliefs about aliens and science fiction. “There is this idea that in academia, you are supposed to work on matters that are intellectually removed from the day to day activities, interests, which I think is wrong,” Loeb says.
Loeb thinks that this aloof attitude comes from academics’ desires to prove themselves. “A lot of the work in academia is demonstrating that you’re smart and improving your image such that you will get awards, honors, appointments, and so forth — rather than try to understand reality, which is really my childhood curiosity,” he says.
But Harvard astrophysicist Jonathan C. McDowell, who has critiqued Loeb in the past, feels that the issue with the Galileo Project is not necessarily that it is researching the existence of extraterrestrial life, but rather its research methods. McDowell points to the acceptance of Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence, a well-known research organization dedicated to understanding life and intelligence across the universe.
“The SETI enterprise has become rigorous enough that it’s accepted as a valid area of scientific inquiry even if a lot of people feel like it’s a bit of a long shot,” he says. McDowell believes that Loeb’s Galileo Project has yet to gain the kind of acceptance within the astronomy community that SETI has. “He’s kind of seen as diving into this solar system stuff, where he’s not an expert, and kind of ignoring what the people who are experts in that field have been saying,” McDowell says.
McDowell is skeptical of some of the methodologies Loeb hopes will drive the Galileo Project. McDowell calls it a “classic fishing expedition,” where a scientist casts out their net to see what they find without putting enough thought into the implications of different results.
“It’s one thing not to see anything,” he says. “It’s another thing to be able to say, ‘Because I didn’t see anything, that means that they aren’t there.’”
McDowell feels that the project as it is right now is not “rigorous” enough to still be useful even if no unidentifiable objects are found.
“I’m just not optimistic that, as currently formulated, it’s going to be terribly scientifically productive,” he says. “That’s my take, but, you know, I’d love to be wrong.” Despite his misgivings, McDowell grants that Loeb has a “right to do this research.”
Loeb acknowledges the possibility of not finding anything. However, he thinks the “fishing expedition” aspect of the project is acceptable because of the significance of potential discoveries. “If we find a rare fish, just one, that is of an extraterrestrial, technological origin, that would have dramatic implications for the future of humanity,” he says.
Nevertheless, the criticism persists — and even influenced the naming of the Galileo project. Galileo, the 16th-century Italian astronomer, theorized that the Earth revolves around the Sun, rather than the other way around — an idea that wasn’t accepted in his time, but turned out to be right in the end. Loeb says he is seeking to emulate Galileo’s pursuit of the truth even if he is also questioned. Only time will tell if the analogy holds up.
Loeb has been criticized in the form of “personal attacks on social media,” and says that “people are jealous of the attention that this project gets.” However, he says that the comments don’t bother him. If anything, he thinks enduring the criticism will help make studying extraterrestrial life a more viable path for younger generations.
McDowell agrees that there is some jealousy surrounding Loeb and the Galileo Project. He also believes that “there is a level at which the journalistic community should be a little more judicious and not just go for the clickbait of ‘Harvard professor says,’” but look into the kinds of research that garner less public attention.
Still, Loeb’s ideas continue to attract significant positive attention, including from the Galileo Project’s uber-wealthy funders. “One of the billionaires that visited the porch of my home said, ‘You're a rock star,’” Loeb says, laughing. “[This] is not something I’m used to because in academia, you’re sort of in the shadows most of the time.”
Loeb ultimately hopes that through his efforts, studying unidentified objects will become mainstream. “Sometimes the soldier needs to put his body on the barbed wire so that others would pass through,” he says.
— Magazine writer Io Y. Gilman can be reached at io.gilman@thecrimson.com.
Sections
Moriya Blumenfeld ’16 graduated from Harvard Business School in 2021 with only one in-person semester under her belt. Her time at business school, which she calls “a very, very underwhelming experience,” left her feeling like she’d missed opportunities to connect with others. She decided to take matters into her own hands — on April 3, she officially released the beta version website for Looop, a dating app whose matchmaking function primarily relies not on an algorithm, but on human beings.
The app itself doesn’t match people — human matchmakers do. Users can join Loop either as a single eligible, a matchmaker, or both. Single eligibles and their matchmakers already know each other; upon sign-up, single eligibles are prompted to nominate specific friends as matchmakers and vice versa. Users can also send their sign-up link to their friends or post on social media to recruit more people.
Eventually, a matchmaker will receive a list of their single, eligible friends. Then, the app will offer all possible combinations of matches between eligibles on the list. If the matchmaker agrees to a pairing, each single eligible will receive a notification and can choose to accept or reject the match; if both parties consent, the matchmaker will be able to introduce them in a private thread.
Blumenfeld says that her intention with Looop was to “ensure that every two people that were supposed to meet each other will eventually meet.”
Looop is supposed to provide social opportunities that Covid took away. “Look at your friends who didn’t meet each other but could have had a meaningful connection,” Blumenfeld says. “Let’s make it happen. So it’s almost a community-building exercise for the time we lost.” Indeed, the app’s name embodies this concept of community, with the additional ‘o’ in the middle representing someone — a matchmaker — bringing together two people.
Blumenfeld and her team — a network of Harvard alumni, professors, and advisors — hypothesize that relationships in which partners meet through a friend are more likely to succeed, not least because “there’s a big difference between what you want and what you need.” Friends often have a better understanding of the latter, she says.
This form of matchmaking also avoids some of the problems that arise with the way many dating apps are structured. Currently, Blumenfeld says, dating app algorithms emphasize quantity over quality, leading to issues such as ghosting, or making quick, shallow judgments.
“Why would I ever respond to that person who wrote to me if I have 100 more in the pipeline?” she explains. “It doesn’t lend itself to actually treating humans as humans and in a meaningful way.”
The concept of matchmaking itself is not new, of course. Blumenfeld, who is Israeli, says that matchmaking has always been a part of her culture.
“In Judaism there’s a concept that if you end up getting three people together in a long-lasting relationship, you go to heaven,” Blumenfeld says. “I think it’s a universal concept — the idea that if you change someone’s life in such a significant way, then it comes with such amazing, rewarding experiences. That’s what I get when I matchmake my friends; I feel like there’s no better way to build community, to contribute to the well-being of people you love.”
In its testing phase, Looop is open to all Harvard students, though its primary launching point is Harvard Business School, where hundreds of students have already signed up for the app. Ndonga Sagnia, a first-year student at HBS who signed up as a matchmaker, says she believes Looop’s human-centered system gives it the potential to truly succeed.
“People think they’re going to get better matches with it, and I think they’re right,” she says. “There’s this idea that ‘If my friend helps set me up with somebody, I'll have more context about why this person would be good for me, and I wouldn’t have to just rest on my judgment.’”
Sagnia also suggests that Looop provides an ideal avenue for forming meaningful relationships, which some people have begun to prioritize more as pandemic restrictions loosen.
In this trial phase, Blumenfeld and her team will gauge user engagement with the app by tracking the number of sign-ups. Meanwhile, they will work on developing the real product — an iOS app — that they plan to launch later this year.. Depending on the success of the app, Blumenfeld and her team may expand the service to other universities.
“At the end of the day, what we want to do is take things back to the old days, but with technology in place for people to help their community come together and create those sparks, those human connections, because your friends know you better than any algorithm,” she says.
— Magazine writer Kaitlyn Tsai can be reached at kaitlyn.tsai@thecrimson.com
Sections
It’s the first day back from spring break. I wake up in my Canaday common room and pull back my privacy curtain, energized, but late. I hurriedly apply makeup to the top half of my face, forgoing the bottom half, match my outfit to my chic N-95, and bolt to Sanders Theater for my first class of the day.
I walk to my usual spot in the dark crevices of the balcony, excited to catch up on my emails, update my LinkedIn profile, and feed my Webkinz Pets (I hope they’re doing ok). That’s when I look up. I’m in shock. No one is wearing masks.
Then I remember the three contradictory and confusing emails sent weeks ago from Dean Gay, Dr. Nguyen, and Uncle Larry. The lengthy block texts hid an important message that I had not bothered to read: the mask mandate had been lifted.
Now, the cloth that I had grown so dependent on is obsolete. I scan the room. I am surrounded by wide nostrils, tiny chins, and, oh dear god, goatees. My eyes are burning. Everyone is so… ugly.
My eyes immediately start to turn toward my crush’s regular spot on the balcony across from me. Though the extent of our relationship has been gazing into his Color-test-kit-blue eyes and batting my falsies before quickly looking away, playing hard to get, I know it’s the real deal. From what I could tell above his mask, he had perfect features: luscious hair, manicured eyebrows, and the smoothest nose bridge anyone has ever seen.
I thought we would, one day, get married in Tercentenary Theatre. That is, until my eyes catch the area right beneath his perfect nose. He has a…handlebar mustache? Since when do 19-year-olds have handlebar mustaches? Can 19-year-olds even grow hair like that? My future husband looks more like Nietzsche than Niall J. Horan.
Blood pumping, I quickly look toward my professor. My stomach drops. I only took MCB1520 because I heard the professor would be a DILF. Now, he looks like a DIWA: Dad I Would Avoid. I should have Googled him beforehand; then I would’ve seen the nostril hair.
I immediately question my own mask status. Is the bottom half of my face presentable for the whole world to see? Though I certainly do not have a goatee, yellow teeth, or long nostril hair, maybe I have other features that people might find repulsive.
I decide that I’ve relied on a facial crutch for too long. But I still worry that people will be as disappointed with the bottom half of my face as I have been with theirs.
But that doesn’t happen. In my initial shock, I guess I must’ve forgotten that I’m actually really, unfairly gorgeous, and that everyone wishes they looked this hot. As I rip off my mask, rays of sunshine emanate from my tiny, tiny pores, rivaling the professional studio lights in Sanders. All 600 people in the lecture hall turn toward the balcony to observe my radiance. Eyes widen, pupils dilate, and sleeping students awaken — my beauty is a rare find. Suddenly, everyone starts clapping — some even faint — and I stand up to take a bow.
In a sea of maskfishes, I am a maskcatch. ;).
Sections
The Period Game, a board game designed to teach menstruation,  is simple. You choose your game piece — a pad, a tampon, or perhaps a cup — and spin a centerpiece shaped like ovaries until it drops a marble, color-coordinated to indicate your next move. In this game, getting your period is one of the best things that can happen. It means you get to jump to the next period square on the gameboard, skipping any spaces in between. In fact, you win the game by being the first player to make it around the gameboard to your eighth bleed.
Winning by getting your period is a funny representation of the message behind the larger exhibit that stands beyond the board game table. "Out for Blood: Feminine Hygiene to Menstrual Equity,” the latest show in the Lia and William Poorvu Gallery at Harvard’s Schlesinger Library, showcases decades of pamphlets, products, and advertisements related to menstruation.
“We wanted to just have people explore the stereotypes that all these companies had sold to women since 1921,” says curator Lee A. Sullivan, Schlesinger’s head of published and printed materials.
The exhibition is chronological, tracking the history of menstruation in public conversation. The words “sanitary” and “hygiene” recur frequently on the items displayed — as if menstruation is something unclean that needs to be addressed.
Early in the 20th century, this narrative and a lack of convenient menstrual products prevented menstruators from being able to work or exercise during their period. Things started to change in the 1940s, when innovative menstrual products offered people the ability to participate in their lives during the bleed without leakage.
But the popularity of these products advanced a new narrative: that menstruators should not leak. “Throughout the 20th century,” the exhibition’s website explains, “the marketing and design of menstrual products often stigmatized menstruation as an unmentionable bodily affliction.” For menstruators living under this stigma, pad and tampon brands guaranteed the possibility of not being “found out.” Sullivan points to an old box of tampons with the brand “Fibs” written across the front. “It’s like you’re fibbing — that you’re pretending you don’t have your period,” she says.
Moreover, the companies marketing these menstrual products faced little to no regulation.  They generated pamphlets that positioned themselves as medical or medically approved experts in menstrual health, then proceeded to recommend their own products. Restrictions were only introduced after multiple product-liability lawsuits established a link between excessively absorbent tampons and an increased risk of developing toxic shock syndrome, a potentially fatal bacterial infection.
An ad for Nan Robertson’s 1982 Pulitzer prize-winning article on toxic shock syndrome, framed above a photo of her limp hand, ravaged by TSS-induced gangrene, marks a point in the exhibit where the voices of companies are replaced by the voices of menstruators. While the show’s “Prologue” highlights how shame was ingrained in the dialogue surrounding menstruation, the main portion of the exhibition is centered around the long history of activism — and frustration — around changing this public narrative.
The exhibition pulls a powerful collection of work from the archives, ranging from the diary entries of a young girl to the canonical “Our Bodies, Ourselves” by the Boston Women’s Health Book Collection. From zines to essays to poetry, its message remains decisive. Menstruation, Sullivan says, is “not some kind of ailment, but it’s just a part of your life. It’s a healthy, wonderful thing.” The exhibit is all about menstrual equity – the mission to destigmatize menstruation and make safe menstrual products available to all people.
Alongside the historical objects, an alcove at the back of the gallery displays posters of the 2019 bill H.R. 1882, which would increase access to free period products, and organizations that work toward menstrual equity, such as Love Your Menses.
Visitors are encouraged to bring menstrual products to donate to Love Your Menses. The exhibit also gives information for ways to get involved in menstrual equity organizing in greater Boston.
Chris Bobel, a Women’s, Gender, and Sexuality Studies professor at the University of Massachusetts Boston, also proposes an everyday type of activism. As a moderator for the panel that kicked off the exhibit on Monday, Bobel was asked what visitors could do for the menstrual equity movement after leaving the exhibit. She replied, “At once the simplest and the hardest is to change the way we talk about menstruation. You know, really try to root out the euphemisms from your vocabulary, try not to whisper about this natural body process.”
“Every time we speak menstruation’s name, every time we speak our truth, we speak our experience, we undo what I call the ‘menstrual mandate’ of shame, silence and secrecy,” Bobel said. And at “Out for Blood,” menstruation’s name is said loud and clear.
— Magazine writer Francesca J. Barr can be reached at francesca.barr@thecrimson.com
— Magazine writer Jem K. Williams can be reached at jem.williams@thecrimson.com 
Sections
UPDATED: August 24, 2022, at 4:54 p.m.
In November of 2021, Julie Fiveash was hired as the Librarian for American Indigenous Studies at Tozzer Library — the first person to hold that position, they say. Their position carves out a distinct space in the world’s largest academic library system to focus exclusively on organizing, spotlighting, and acquiring materials in a field that has long been neglected.
Because the position is so new, it remains malleable; Fiveash, who is Indigenous themself, describes the opportunity as both “exciting” and nerve-wracking. “I want to do a good job, and I want this job to continue,” they say. “I want to make it clear that this job is needed on campus.”
In their work, they mainly seek to help researchers find and navigate Indigenous collections for their projects. Fittingly, much of their past research looks at the ways we discuss, label, and present Indigenous materials.
What this can look like varies day to day. “I’m encompassing Indigenous Studies, which is everything from English to architecture to math,” Fiveash says.
They plan to concentrate their energy on increasing the accessibility of the University’s Indigenous materials.
In addition to bringing awareness to their role through outreach to groups like the Harvard University Native American Program, they are interested in digitizing several collections to facilitate easy use. At the same time, they hope to prioritize sensitivity. For instance, in some collections run by Indigenous archivists, items receive “TK” labels — traditional knowledge labels — which indicate either only certain people in the community should access them, or that anyone can, but should do so in a particular way. The University has never made use of such labels before, but Fiveash is intrigued by them. Fiveash also hopes to facilitate “community collaboration” on archival materials, allowing community members to leave digital comments on items that interest or are relevant to them.
Fiveash’s path to Indigenous librarianship began with something unexpected: comics.
Growing up Navajo, Mexican, and white, Fiveash struggled to reconcile their disparate identities, and they often expressed their conflicted feelings in comics.
To Fiveash’s surprise, one of their zines, — “‘Why Can’t You—’ A Comic About Multi-Racial Identity,” — touched more people than they anticipated, and sparked conversations about identity that they wanted to continue facilitating.
Fiveash has been creating comics since their freshman year at Dartmouth College, where they graduated with a degree in Studio Art. Post-graduation, Fiveash moved to San Francisco and worked at a comic book store for a few years. They hoped to run a comic book store themselves but started working at a public library with tentative plans to one day break into that tough market.
At one Indigenous Comic Con, where Fiveash was promoting their zines, someone told them that Indigenous librarianship could be a way to combine their interests both in comics and bookkeeping. “A thing I got very good at was suggesting comics to read. I would have to gauge what someone’s interest was, and then I would be like, ‘Okay, I know what comics you want to have.’ And so that actually translates incredibly well to librarianship,” Fiveash says.
And so they entered the world of Indigenous librarianship, enrolling in UCLA’s Master of Library and Information Science program in 2019. At a conference for the Association of Tribal Archives, Libraries, and Museums, they met librarians from many other institutions, ranging from the National Museum of the American Indian at the Smithsonian to local community libraries. They were inspired by the resources their fellow learners and researchers provided through, and envisioned for, their libraries, and they wanted to add on to this work.
During their second year of graduate school, Fiveash conducted social media outreach for the UCLA American Indian Studies Center Library. They then came to Harvard under the Harvard Library Diversity Residency Program, an initiative to attract librarians from historically underrepresented groups.
Coming to Harvard “wasn’t an easy move” for Fiveash, because it meant being far from their family and friends. But ultimately, they decided that the tradeoff was worth it. “I knew that if I got this position, it would mean a lot in terms of what I was going to learn because Harvard has the largest academic library in the world,” they say. “So I knew I would have to make the sacrifice to learn as much as I can from one of the best places to do that at.”
At Harvard, Fiveash hopes to expand interest in the University’s Indigenous materials beyond historians and researchers. Most of these collections are concentrated in the public-facing Tozzer Library, but are under-accessed by the public. They would like to create a “friendly and welcoming” space for people to explore the collections — for example, they hope to share Indigenous comics, zines, and cookbook recipes on the first floor so that visitors who walk into the library can easily engage with them. They say it’s important for people to connect with Indigenous history and present-dayIndigenous experiences in order to “get away from the idea of us being an extinct species.” One way they imagine doing this would be through expanding Harvard’s collection.
Ultimately, Fiveash feels grateful to have cinched this “dream job” that allows them to learn from Harvard’s resources as well as highlight American Indigenous work. Though they’re not quite sure what they want to pursue when their time here comes to an end, they hope to, bring what they’ve learned back to their community.
— Magazine writer Katie L. Sevier can be reached at katie.sevier@thecrimson.com.
Sections
“Whenever people ask where we surf, I always give this smug answer, like, ‘um, the ocean,’” says Lindsay Sanwald, president and founder of the Harvard Divinity School Surf Club. A Masters of Divinity candidate graduating this spring, Sanwald lets her spirituality manifest in a variety of ways: the psychedelic indie-rock one-woman show she performs under the stage name Idgy Dean,; the Patreon account she runs to offer sermons, spiritual guidance, and meditation to monthly subscribers, and, as of late, surfing.
She notes that it’s easy to forget, here at Harvard, that we’re on the coast; the Surf Club aims to “co-create a regular relationship with the Ocean” and reconnect with the water through surfing as a meditative practice. The HDS Surf Club has surfed at Nantasket Beach and Nahant Beach in Massachusetts, as well as Hampton Beach and Narragansett Beach in New Hampshire. Sanwald explains that surfing is more accessible than we may think; at most beaches, you can rent a suit and a board for the day.
By her own admission, Sanwald is not the world’s greatest surfer. She laughs as she describes how the overachieving Harvard student in her wanted to give up after she tried surfing and didn’t take to it immediately. But now, she finds something liberating about putting time and effort into something she initially failed at.“I was just like, ‘I'm gonna reclaim this thing I’ve always wanted to do,’” Sanwald says, “And surfing became sort of the most advanced yoga practice I knew. The whole practice is showing up, paddling out, and learning how to be with your fear.”
I spoke with Sanwald — outside, despite some rain and slight chill, at her request to soak up the spring weather — the day before her first gig in Cambridge, a show at the Cantab Lounge in Central Square.
Sanwald has been playing music since she was 12 — she performed in punk bands in middle school, then played bass in a metal band in New Jersey for four years, then drums in a rock band during college at Sarah Lawrence College, where she graduated with a degree in Comparative Literature.
After college, Sanwald decided she didn’t want to pursue a PhD and be a college professor, or a “glorified English teacher.” Instead, she moved to New York City to do what she loves: making music. It wasn’t until 2019, after watching documentaries on Ruth Bader Ginsburg in the wake of the Kavanaugh hearings, that she thought to herself: “I want to go to Harvard, and be like Ruth, and do her thing.”
During her time at HDS, music has been at the forefront of Sanwald’s spiritual study. She notes that she’s written more music while at Harvard than in the several years prior. To support her music career, Sanwald runs a Patreon account, an online service that allows people to subscribe to various forms of artistic content. Sandwald’s account offers what she calls “Abstract Chaplaincy.” Patrons can subscribe to various membership levels ranging from “Lover” for $6 a month to “Renaissance Medici” for $777 a month. The more robust packages — such as “Mystic” for $77 a month and “Visionary” for $111 a month — include weekly yoga and meditation lessons, sermons, one-on-one sessions for spiritual growth, and early access to Sanwald’s unreleased music.
Sanwald explains why she was drawn to the Patreon platform: whereas she used to have to crowdsource funds to produce her music, she feels Patreon affords her a more reciprocal relationship with her patrons.
“It keeps me honest as a spiritual practitioner. I’m not just begging for money; I’m offering my gifts in a more generous way,” Sanwald says. “There’s more in it for the artist, and more in it for the listener.”
Sandwald offers a particularly unique listening experience with her newest musical conquest: the looping pedal. The electronic device lets Sanwald simultaneously play multiple instruments because each is playing on a loop, giving her live shows the sound of a full band even though she is the only one on stage.
“[The looping pedal] records back what you’re putting into it, so it has this sort of mantra built into it,” Sanwald says, “but you have to be inventive and creative in how you make that mantra.”
Now, with formalized divinity study in her repertoire, Sanwald is looking forward to connecting with audiences during her performances.
“I’ve intentionally been studying divinity, and to now bring that to this thing I’ve [been doing] for such a long time — I’m so excited,” says Sanwald about her upcoming performance at the Cantab Lounge, smiling. “I can’t wait to see what happens, because it’s gonna be so vulnerable. It’s so messy, so human, but also just my truest divinity as I know it, which is being in the altar of all the accidents and miracles.”
— Magazine writer Sarah W. Faber can be reached at sarah.faber@thecrimson.com.
Sections
What does it take to be a Harvard squirrel, you ask? In this day and age, only squirrels with the highest degree of adorability and the most prodigious of nut-cracking capabilities are considered adequate. Think of the squirrels in the Nut Sorting Room of Willy Wonka’s chocolate factory, only smarter. (Little-known fact: several Harvard squirrel alumni were cast in the 2005 remake of “Charlie and the Chocolate Factory.”)
The squirrels on Harvard’s campus work tirelessly to achieve quite literally groundbreaking discoveries in the field of acorn-stashing and to innovate new styles of nest architecture. High on the squirrels’ priority list at present: improving the efficiency of seasonal nut-cashing through both engineering and squirrel neuroscience. A pressing issue, seeing as the larger squirrel population loses up to 75 percent of the nuts it buries.
Harvard squirrels themselves are not immune to such disorienting food loss. One Harvard property maintenance worker (who requested anonymity due to how hard the squirrels could make his job if provoked) reported finding 992 nuts one spring work day, uncovered as he tilled the soil in front of Sever Hall. Upon hearing this, a young skin-and-bones squirrel I talked to became so anguished he fell out of his tree. His emotional state left him unreceptive to my attempts to introduce him to a map or catalog system which could prevent future unnecessary hunger. I’ll have to try again next year.
Many people think that once a squirrel has made it to Harvard, it’s set. Unlimited access to snack-bearing tourists and enough acorn-bearing trees to keep it fed for the rest of its squirrelly life. But reality is more complicated. Food from tourists has been known to make Harvard squirrels fat, which is hardly ideal when their lifestyle involves jumping from sprig to sprig 40 feet in the air. Also, the Harvard archeology department has a habit of digging giant holes in the Yard, unburying up to 50 acorns per excavation — a three-week setback, at least.
There has been criticism in recent years of Harvard squirrel admissions being primarily a question of legacy — usually, once at Harvard, squirrels stick around and send their children to follow them. Some parents have even been accused of grooming their kits from birth for prestigious positions in the squirrel hierarchy on campus. The overwhelming pressure frequently causes adolescent squirrels to crack like a nut.
Taking the feedback around their admissions policy into account, the Harvard squirrels have implemented a rule mandating that 25 percent of new admits must be from the wider Massachusetts area. Sometimes a squirrel will even join from abroad, having stowed away on a Christmas tree shipped in from Nova Scotia.
As spring comes to a head, Harvard squirrels are preparing for the height of mating season. Over Sex Weekend, tiny pamphlets encouraging safe sex practices were posted in the upper treetops for the STI-ridden and overly eager juvenile population.
When the students leave in May, squirrels’ reign will be uncontested. Until then, Harvard squirrel leadership has one emphatic request for the humans on campus: please stop walking dogs through Harvard Yard, lest they be forced to put their sharp squirrel minds toward less peaceful endeavors.
Sections
English professor Byron S. Hurlbut, Class of 1887, certainly enjoyed Harvard Yard’s landscape. In the October 1901 issue of the Harvard Monthly, Hurlbut wrote that he always looked forward to “the first faint flecks of green that sway among the branches of the elms” in the springtime. In his view, four years was not enough to experience the “long, penciled rays of sunshine slant across lawns” in the summer and “the yellow and brown of the October elms” and the “flaming of the ivy” in the fall.
In 2022, though, we cannot experience the October elms’ yellow hue or the ivy’s crimson color: there are few elms and little ivy remaining today.
Indeed, over the 20th century, both plants came under threat from different sources. Natural pests have plagued Harvard’s elms, while University administrators — more concerned with practicality than aesthetics — launched a plan to remove ivy from Harvard’s hallowed halls.
The University planted elms in the early 19th century as part of an effort to beautify campus and provide shade. Meanwhile, ivy’s arrival in Harvard Yard is something of a mystery. The Harvard Gazette speculated that Charles Eliot Jr., a landscape architect whose father served as president of Harvard, planted ivy during a landscape renovation in the 1890s. By 1900, ivy had become widespread on campus.
In the first decade of the 1900s, non-native elm-leaf beetles, bark borers, and leopard moths began to attack Harvard Yard’s elms. As City of Boston entomologist James W. Chapman summed up in 1910, Harvard squirrels had driven birds away from the yard by destroying their nests. “Here is a conflict of sentiments, trees vs. squirrels. And the result is, many squirrels, few birds. Few birds, many insects. Many insects, few trees,” Chapman wrote pithily. He hoped the University could stave off the most serious problems, though.
But by the next year, the Harvard Bulletin rued that the pests had left the Class Day Tree near Holden Chapel a shriveled hulk. The tree, which served as the center of festivities preceding Commencement, waited in “ghostly outline” to be chopped down.
Over the next few years, Harvard alumni transplanted elms from nearby parks in Cambridge and Boston to replace the dying trees with the help of landscape architecture firm Olmsted Brothers, founded by two sons of Central Park designer Frederick Law Olmsted. To mark a successful 1912 transplant, the poet Percy Mackaye, class of 1897, published a dedication in the Boston Evening Transcript: “Your branches die, but not the dreams they bred. / They, like immortal choirs of dawn, displace / Your silent ruin with the singing dead.”
Despite those efforts, a new pestilence would soon arrive. Dutch elm disease — which kills trees by restricting water flow throughout their vascular system — reached Cleveland, Ohio, in 1930 via a shipment of infected logs from France, and it soon spread rapidly throughout the United States. However, Dutch elm disease did not reach Harvard until the early 1970s.
In 1974, Harvard took stock of its Dutch elm disease problem, blaming it on the prohibition of DDT and vehicle pollution from Massachusetts Avenue. With promising research in the works, though, landscape designers hoped they could plant elms in the yard once again.
Unfortunately, the research on making trees resistant to Dutch elm disease did not pan out. Olmsted Brothers had planted elms too close together in Harvard Yard, so the fungus spread too quickly between trees. In the 1990s, the problem had grown to such scales that the University put together a committee to discuss the problem. Eventually, the committee commissioned landscape architect and Graduate School of Design professor Michael R. Van Valkenburgh to design a new master plan for the Yard — without elms.
Van Valkenburgh and tree consultant Peter Del Tredici set out to “recreate a canopy reminiscent of the character of the American elms — to retain not only their memorable quality but also unimpeded views across the Yard,” as they wrote in an 1994 article in the Arnold Arboretum’s Arnoldia magazine.
The pair planted 13 different canopy tree species and 11 peripheral tree species to reduce reliance on the elm monoculture and to adapt to individual microclimates in the yard. Planting finished in 1994, and critics largely acclaimed the project not only for its diversity but also for its design. As Landscape Architecture magazine commented, “By emphasizing the canopy of deciduous trees as a lid and the continuity of the ground plane as a floor, Van Valkenburgh has boxed the yard’s rich but diverse range of time-specific buildings inside a timeless — and orderly — landscape.”
Meanwhile, as Harvard dealt with its Dutch elm disease problems, Harvard landscapers were removing ivy from the Yard because the plant’s tendrils had started to cause too much damage to buildings.
In 1982, Harvard announced a methodical plan to cut down every single ivy vine on campus as part of a building renovation project. Students quipped that they would have to “nip it in the bud,” and alumni grumbled about the lost ivy’s aesthetic value, forming the “Save Harvard’s Ivy Today” group.
Eventually, administrators yielded to their demands. But it was only a temporary reprieve. With Harvard’s latest house renewal starting in 2008, administrators finally committed to removing the last vestiges of ivy.
And so Harvard is now an Ivy League campus sans ivy.
In the end, although Harvard’s elms and ivy no longer grace today’s Harvard Yard, Hurlbut’s paean to Harvard’s landscape still holds true as springtime descends on campus for the last time in my undergraduate career. While Hurlbut thought a full four years on campus would not be enough to fully experience Harvard’s natural beauty, my two and a half years here have been far too short.
— Magazine writer Kendrick N. Foster can be reached at kendrick.foster@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @kenning_f
Sections
“Do you agree with this book that is being taught with kids that babies are racist?” Ted Cruz infamously asked his fellow Harvard Law School alum, Justice Ketanji Brown Jackson ’92, during her recent Senate confirmation hearing for a seat on the Supreme Court. His question represents the latest iteration of a contentious debate over race relations in America — critical race theory.
But before local school board members started contending with critical race theory, critical legal studies was fanning a flame that would spark one of the most tense periods in the history of Harvard Law School.
Critical legal studies is a theory developed in the 1970s by leading legal scholars, including Harvard Law Professor Duncan Kennedy ’64. CLS gained traction until it formed a schism in legal scholarship in the early ’90s. Its core sentiment explores how the law is inherently biased and used as an instrument by those in power to uphold systems of oppression against marginalized groups. Many CLS scholars seek to use the law as a tool to correct society’s injustices.
At the time of its conception, CLS was highly controversial and dismissed as promoting radical leftist ideals. But Kennedy disagreed, quoted in a 1985 Crimson article arguing that “there are many places where you can struggle effectively against social injustice. That includes influential, elite institutions like Harvard Law School.” He believed that by offering a creative, radical perspective at the Law School, he could expand the range of choices leftward, thereby pulling moderates slightly to the left.
Eventually, the growing popularity of CLS created a fierce divide between the Law School faculty, some of whom believed the theory was necessary, while others, like the head of Duke University’s School of Law and Harvard Law alumnus Paul D. Carrington, believed it was “often avowedly destructive in its purpose.” Professors would spend half of their lectures criticizing their own peers. Scathing articles back and forth routinely appeared in legal journals, alternately condemning and defending the legitimacy of CLS.
The debate came to a head in the spring of 1992, when HLS announced its new faculty hires.
With tensions at an all-time high, Robert C. Clark, the Law School’s dean at the time, was tasked with appeasing an unusually impassioned faculty. Clark selected what he considered “a politically balanced package” — four white men across the ideological spectrum.
The massive outrage that followed made clear that Clark’s plan had backfired miserably.
At the time, out of 64 tenured or tenure-track professors, a mere six were Black men, and five were white women. On top of that, two of the newly tenured faculty were only visiting professors, a disqualifying factor that had caused two Black women to be denied tenure the year prior.
This striking lack of diversity at the Law School had been a cause of concern for several years — especially for the Coalition for Civil Rights, a group of six minority student organizations and the Women’s Law Association dedicated to increased minority hiring practices. Two years before the hiring controversy, they attempted to file a lawsuit against Harvard Law School for discrimination, but the Massachusetts Supreme Court dismissed their case after hearing Harvard’s argument that students didn’t have the right to sue their school. After a strenuous legal battle, however, the coalition was finally able to give verbal arguments on March 3, 1992.
Around the same time, Professor Derrick A. Bell Jr. announced that he had requested another year of unpaid leave from the Law School. He originally went on leave in April 1990 in protest, refusing to return until a Black woman joined the faculty. But the University’s President at the time, Neil L. Rudenstine, said Bell’s request could not be granted.
Then on March 4, 1992, a group of students from the CCR camped outside of Clark’s house and waited for him to leave for work. As he made his way outside, they handed him a list of demands with an eight-day ultimatum period for a comprehensive response.
The eight days crawled by as the entire Law School anxiously awaited Dean Clark’s response. To their dismay, the reveal was underwhelming.
Clark submitted a three-page letter defending the Law School’s minority hiring track record, citing their recent attempts to hire two minority and two female professors.
In response, CCR staged two silent sit-ins, one on March 18 in the office of Professor Charles A. Fried and the other on March 19 in the office of Professor Reiner H. Kraakman. Both were avidly anti-CLS, and, the students believed, were complicit in the lack of minority hiring at the Law School. The sit-ins consisted of around 15 or 16 students and lasted approximately 15 minutes before protestors left at the threat of disciplinary action.
On April 3, coalition members held several picket lines across the Law School campus. That morning, about 25 students marched in front of professors’ offices in Griswold Hall, chanting and carrying colorful signs.
“We are picketing Griswold Hall because a lot of the professors have their offices here,” said Julia R. Gordon ’85, one of the protest’s organizers, in a Crimson article from April 4. “I have never done this before. Then again, I have never been treated with such disrespect in my life.”
But most professors ignored the morning picket line and entered their offices despite the chanting crowd.
Later that same afternoon, around 30 coalition members held a silent vigil outside a faculty meeting in Pound Hall, distributing flyers saying 330 students voted that they had “no confidence” in Clark’s commitment to minority hiring. “Most faculty entering the afternoon meeting said the vigil was a productive method of raising awareness,” according to the April 4 Crimson article.
After these relatively mild demonstrations, the CCR kicked things up a notch. For their final demonstration in this spring of discontent, nine student members staged a sit-in in front of Clark’s office. After arriving in the afternoon of April 6, the demonstrators refused to leave until Clark either satisfied their demands or called for their arrest. They sat in silence for approximately 25 hours, with their faces obscured by masks depicting Clark’s face to preserve their anonymity.
“We feel the dean and the faculty have to know how serious we are about diversifying faculty,” said first-year law student Gregory E. Bylinsky told the Crimson at the time. “There isn’t time to wait anymore.”
“We want to make the dean take some kind of action and stop negotiating in bad faith with the diversity movement,” he added.
Harvard Law School had not seen this much outcry from the student body in at least a decade. “This has escalated beyond any previous protest,” said second-year Katya Komisaruk in the same Crimson article. “This is the first time people have been committed to being arrested. The provocation and comment by the dean has caused the crescendo.”
But Clark said he saw the sit-in as part of the annual spring protests. “It’s not radically different from my first spring here,” he said.
On April 16, nine student organizations at Harvard Law called for Clark’s resignation. They had enough of what they perceived to be blatant discrimination toward minorities and women and general indifference toward student concerns.

Nevertheless, Clark remained in the position until retiring on his own accord in 2002.
Sections
When my pre-frosh arrives next weekend — from New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, or New York — Harvard’s best accommodations await her. You see, I live in the Inn, Harvard’s hotel-turned-overflow-housing where chosen students enjoy approximately two weeks of air conditioning and seven months of living three feet from their roommate at all times. My roommate and I, overwhelmed by the logistics of the visit, took five whole seconds to conclude that our pre-frosh will fly across the country to end up sleeping on the bench under our window.
As you can tell, my excitement is palpable. When my roommate first suggested we host a pre-frosh, I smiled so hard that I grimaced. Maybe I’m just a little bit jealous of  this nameless pre-frosh who will enjoy the Visitas Veritaffle I never had.
But let’s not get it twisted, either. I’m genuinely excited to welcome an admitted student to campus. In fact, I’m thrilled that she has the opportunity to attend Harvard. The opportunities here are unparalleled, and the Harvard experience is singular.
Where else can you actually take a class with a world-renowned professor, the one you gushed about in your Common App, only to discover that they don’t know how to teach? Where else can you brag to your friends from home that you live three floors down and one entryway away from Malia Obama’s old dorm? Or the Unabomber’s?
Does any other college offer cowboy beans in the world’s most famous Hogwarts-look-alike dining hall? Where else can you see dozens of white kids dress up on a random Tuesday night to get rejected from a social club? Or feel a pang of guilt and awe passing Kirkland House, where Mark Zuckerberg pressed the first keystrokes toward the end of democracy?
Digs aside, I will make sure my pre-frosh knows that Harvard is transformative. You come to countless new realizations about yourself, your needs, and your aspirations. You meet accomplished, capable, and dynamic people across the community. You take academically rigorous but rewarding classes. You work harder than you may have ever worked before, finishing work you could have just started earlier. All-nighters happen, breakdowns happen — tell your pre-frosh to make an appointment with CAMHS for counseling through their senior thesis now. But one day, you emerge from the cubicles of Lamont as the birds chirp, and it all becomes worth it. Your second Expos paper is complete, and you are forevermore a Lamonster.
Sections
Holi, also known as the Festival of Colors, is a Hindu celebration of the end of winter and the onset of spring. It is meant to invoke a good harvest and is predominantly celebrated in the Indian subcontinent. Over the years, however, it has found its way into the Western world and beyond through the South Asian diaspora. Now, individuals from all over the world participate in the joyous celebration involving “rang,” or colorful powder, as well as music and delicious sweets.
While Holi is associated around the world with joyous celebration and beginnings, there is a lesser-known history surrounding its origins. This history has informed protests and calls for more socially conscious discussions to accompany the holiday’s festivities.
The tradition is thought to derive from the myth of Holika, a Bahujan, or low caste, woman who was burned when assisting her brother Hiranyakashipu, a demon king, in plotting his son's murder. Hiranyakashipu was enraged over his son’s devotion to Lord Vishnu, one of the principal deities of Hinduism who had killed his younger brother.
The celebration of the transition from winter to spring is premised on this myth about burning a Bahujan woman to symbolize the triumph of good over evil. Some argue that this myth has contributed to the burning and sexual abuse of Bahujan women during Holi in modern-day India. Thus, many question the ethics of celebrating Holi, especially when the celebrations are not accompanied by an acknowledgement of the holiday’s history.
Issues of casteism extend beyond these violent burnings during Holi. They appear in everyday disparities in education, employment, and other resources, as well as social stigma against lower-caste individuals across the South Asian subcontinent. According to the U.S. State Department, these cases of caste-based violence, as well as violence against religious minorities, have been increasing under the administration of Indian Prime Minister Narenda Modi. Modi’s administration is commonly associated with promoting Hindutva, a form of Hindu nationalism that is associated with attitudes that contribute to casteism and the resulting violence.
In 2020, members of the South Asian diaspora joined in nationwide protests aimed to oppose various policies and forms of violence associated with Hindutva. One such group, the Students Against Hindutva Ideology, an “inter-university, interfaith, progressive student coalition,” gained significant traction. During the month of Holi celebrations, students led protests on over twenty college campuses, including Harvard, both in the United States and England, to protest India’s Citizenship Amendment Act, which restricts Indian citizenship for religious minorities in the subcontinent.
“We understand the deep socio-cultural issues associated with caste and their representation in the festival of Holi,” says Navin S. Durbhakula ’25, who helped put together this year’s Holi  event at Harvard. Keeping these issues in mind, Abhi S. Patel ’25 led a talk on caste inequalities in India earlier this month for the attendees of a weekly event hosted by Dharma, Harvard’s Hindu Students’ Association.
“Our goal was to present as unbiased a perspective on Holi and caste as possible using reputable sources to back our presentation. At the same time, we also wanted to emphasize that Dharma condemns all forms of caste discrimination, whether it take[s] place in Holi or otherwise,” Patel writes in an emailed statement.
While they were cognizant of the issues surrounding the interpretations of Holi in the modern world and set aside time for these discussions, their goal was also to revive a celebratory spring tradition after two years of being off-campus in April, when Dharma typically hosts Holi. Organizers Durbhakula, Karina J. Mahida ’25, and Suhanee S. Mitragotri ’25 had been hard at work for the past three weeks to gather all the supplies for the event, design custom t-shirts for attendees, order snacks, curate a playlist, and plan additional events.
“One of our traditions is that every night before Holi celebrations, Dharma’s nearly 40-person board — known as DBoard — gets together to play a game of Jeopardy,” Kavya M. Shah ’23 says.
“The morning of, DBoard throws rang on the John Harvard Statue and goes for a picnic where the food is sourced from Flour Bakery,” Dhwani Bharvad ’22 says. “We then go over to the Malkin Athletic Center Lawn to set up the tables full of colors, snacks and water guns. Before celebrating with colors, we play a game of Kabaddi, a traditional South Asian sport.”
On April 3, a crowd of at least 100 students gathered in a circle at the MAC Lawn and at exactly 1:30 p.m. kicked off Holi by throwing rang at each other. Within the next hour, the numerous plastic bags full of colors were emptied, people were drenched by buckets of water, and all the samosas ordered had been relished by hungry participants.
“We will not be ashamed to celebrate Holi the proper way it was originally meant to be celebrated,” Patel writes. “However, as Hindus, we will do our best to understand that this does not always happen and that many Bahujans and women are harassed and discriminated against by some groups’ Holi celebrations.”
“It is our duty to call out [discrimination] and ensure that our space is welcoming and lives up to promoting the original message,” Patel adds.
Sections
As she waited to fall asleep on her first night in her new home, Swati Goel ’25 says, “The biggest emotion I felt was scared.” She had always dreamed of being there, but her first day was overwhelming. “It’s truly like being lifted from reality and being put in this little alternate world that is completely cut off from everything else.”
Goel was not speaking about her first night at Harvard. She was reflecting on her first hours fending for herself on the Mamanuca Islands of Fiji as a contestant on the 42nd season of the hit CBS reality competition show “Survivor.”
“Survivor” isolates a group of strangers in a remote location where they must endure the wild with self-made shelter and limited food. Contestants are split into “tribes” to compete against each other in grueling challenges.
But “Survivor” is more than just a physical test. Players are voted out one at a time, necessitating shrewd strategies and alliances between contestants all vying to win $1 million. It’s this element of wit that has gained the show its cult following of over 5 million viewers per episode. “That’s something that people who aren’t ‘Survivor’ fans don’t understand,” Goel says. “Yes, it’s like reality TV, but this show to people is a lot more than just something they watch.”
For Goel, the show has been a comfort since middle school — like “chicken soup,” she says. “It’s just the thing I would watch whenever I was upset or sad.” Auditioning for the show was a bucket-list item for her. “I was so afraid for all of high school that ‘Survivor’ would stop airing by the time I graduated,” she recalls. So Goel submitted a video audition, and the waiting began.
Months passed before she heard back, until one day, sitting in a parking lot, she received a call from a producer. “This has to be a joke,” she remembers thinking, but her disbelief immediately turned to resolve. “As soon as I got that call, I just had this sense of ‘this is gonna happen for me, I’m gonna make this happen.’”
Goel sat for a stressful whirlwind of interviews before finally getting cast, and she wasted no time in preparing for the show. She spent the weeks leading up to filming completing basic training for the Army National Guard, which she had joined at the end of high school. Filming for the show took place from May to June of 2021, when Goel says she was “in the best shape of my life.”
Despite the preparation, Goel found herself mentally unprepared for the reality of island life.
“A small part of me was like, ‘this is fake,’” Goel says. “They truly just left us on an island … There are coconuts, here’s a machete, go kill things and eat.” Goel primarily ate coconuts and crabs, but she often chose to forgo eating so as to not waste energy hunting or finding food.
Against a background of lush palms, white sand, cyan seas — as well as dirt, grime, and island creatures — viewers were invited to watch Goel’s strong early game. From the get-go, Goel and the other younger contestants on her tribe seemed to bond over generational interests like “Harry Potter.” But their fooling around often seemed to frustrate older contestants on the team who wanted to focus on building up a campsite.
As the youngest contestant that season, Goel knew her age could be a liability. “Young women are often viewed as easy targets to pick off at the beginning of ‘Survivor,’ and I wanted to be viewed as someone who can be an asset,” she says. To counteract the stereotype, she emphasized her military background. She was glad to represent young women, as well as the South Asian community, she says. “These are those demographics that haven’t been represented super well on this show.”
Despite their strong start, Goel’s tribe lost the second challenge and had to go to Tribal Council on Night 3, an experience so dreadful that Goel admitted to the camera, “If I could cut off a finger to not be at Tribal [Council] tonight, I would,” slicing the air with her hand.
Although the team had been faring well, when the team finished last in a challenge, the blame game began as players scrambled to form voting blocs for the upcoming Tribal Council. This is when Goel realized she “ got caught in the middle of too many things,” having promised to three of her tribe members that they were her “Number 1.” Soon, her alleged allies had their own meeting where they discovered her dishonesty. It was an unexpected turn in the social dynamic.
“Everyone likes Swati,” remarks contestant Romeo Escobar in Episode 4. “She’s this innocent 20-year-old. You think she’s just out here for self discovery, she’s scared.” A montage of Goel squatting in the rainforest and beating a coconut with a machete plays on screen, and then Escobar has his epiphany: “Wait a minute. She’s playing, and she’s playing hard.”
Soon after, Goel was voted off. Although her time on “Survivor” was shorter than she had hoped, she refuses to hold any regrets. “I got to live out my dream,” she says. “I’m not gonna sit here spending my life thinking about what I could have done differently.”
Instead, she set her sights on her next dream. “Before I started school, I wanted to go do something for either the country or the world that I could be proud of,” she says. She is now enlisted in the Army National Guard, for which she is currently completing training on weekends.
At the same time, Goel is planning for an initiative called the Open Doors Project, through which she hopes to leverage her “Survivor” fame to “do good” and start conversations about mental health among young people through a podcast and video series.
Her initiative is personal. Although her lifelong dream came true, Goel says she also experienced mental health challenges during her gap year and in her first semester of college. But after “Survivor,” she had the confidence to open up about these struggles. “I think I grew a lot as a person,” she says. “I like the person that I am now a lot more than the person I was before.”
— Magazine writer Dina R. Zeldin can be reached at dina.zeldin@thecrimson.com.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Covid-19 cases on Harvard’s campus have risen steadily in the last week-and-a-half, driven in large part by a spike among graduate students and faculty and staff.
The on-campus seven-day Covid-19 positivity rate sat at 1.54 percent as of Wednesday evening, according to Harvard’s Covid-19 Dashboard. Last week, 430 Harvard affiliates tested positive — up from 279 from the week prior. Just over half of the positive cases on campus last week were graduate students.
The spike comes one month after Harvard lifted its on-campus mask requirement during Spring Break.
Case counts, though rising, have not matched the peak of the Omicron spike in January, when the school reported 976 positives in a single week.
Undergraduate case counts rose last week, but not to pre-Spring Break levels. During the first week of March, 342 College students tested positive — the highest single-week sum since the beginning of the pandemic.
“While we have seen recent increases in cases, they are not as high as what we saw in January,” Harvard University Health Services Director Giang T. Nguyen wrote to University affiliates on Wednesday. “Increases are consistent with virus levels that the state of Massachusetts is reporting through its tracking of sewer wastewater.”
The State of Massachusetts reported a 2.93 percent seven-day positivity rate as of April 7. The city of Cambridge reported a 2.3 percent 14-day positivity rate as of the same day.
Harvard also updated its travel guidance on Wednesday to remove a requirement that unvaccinated affiliates submit travel petitions for University-related travel. Affiliates who are fully vaccinated and boosted are no longer required to submit a form attesting their vaccination status.
Nguyen wrote that most cases have been mild due to the high vaccination rate across the University. He also wrote that University affiliates should take safety precautions if they intend to travel in the near future.
“Each of us controls what steps we can take to protect ourselves,” he wrote. “Use the knowledge about local disease prevalence to inform your own behavior, especially if you or a household member is at high risk due to age, lack of immunization, or medical issues. If you are concerned about potential exposures, you can reduce your own risk by wearing a high-quality mask that fits securely without air gaps.”
—Staff writer Lucas J. Walsh can be reached at lucas.walsh@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Since the beginning of March, Harvard has gradually scaled down its on-campus Covid-19 restrictions — a shift from the cautious approach the school took to managing the virus over the last two years.
On March 1, faculty began removing their masks in lecture halls. Thirteen days later, the school’s mask mandate was lifted in most indoor spaces. Two weeks after that, social gatherings were allowed to resume in undergraduate residence halls.
But one key requirement remains: testing.
When Harvard announced in February that it would allow professors to begin teaching unmasked, University Health Services Director Giang T. Nguyen wrote that “regular surveillance testing will remain an important part of our campus protocols.”
“It will continue to help us understand the presence of COVID-19 in our community and inform any subsequent steps we may take in response to the data,” he wrote.
But some experts say testing requirements, too, could soon be on the way out.
Undergraduates are currently required to take a Covid test once per week. But some public health experts say phasing out asymptomatic Covid testing requirements is reasonable for schools that require full vaccination, like Harvard.
In an interview last week, Harvard President Lawrence S. Bacow said the University will eventually stop requiring asymptomatic affiliates to test for Covid — but he stopped short of specifying when.
A total of 430 Harvard affiliates tested positive for Covid-19 last week as the school saw a large uptick in cases among graduate students and staff, according to the University’s Covid-19 Testing Dashboard. While recent case counts remain lower than those in January, when the Omicron variant first emerged, the school has seen a surge over the past week.
Boston University medical school professor Elissa M. Schechter-Perkins said “now is a very reasonable time” to stop required asymptomatic surveillance testing, as long as schools have high vaccination rates.
“We really have developed so many tools to fight this illness that it makes sense that we are starting, at this point, to peel back some of our mitigation layers — and asymptomatic screening is one of them,” she said.
Around 98 percent of Harvard students and 97 percent of school employees are vaccinated.
Thomas N. Denny, chief operating officer of the Duke Human Vaccine Institute, said asymptomatic surveillance tests have become less useful with the emergence of the fast-spreading Omicron variant, which has a significantly shorter incubation period compared to previous variants.
“With Omicron, the numbers just don’t work,” he said. “You can’t get the swab, get the test result, and implement an isolation period, for the majority of the cases, in the timeline that matters.”
Philip J. Landrigan, a Boston College public health professor and epidemiologist, said a school’s decision to end surveillance testing should depend on case rates in the surrounding area.
In Cambridge, where 76 percent of residents are fully vaccinated, the positivity rate over the past two weeks was 2.3 percent. Cases have risen in recent weeks — but nowhere near the city’s peak in January.
Boston College and Northeastern University have both ended testing mandates for vaccinated affiliates.
Bacow said Harvard will rely on the University Coronavirus Advisory Group — which includes medicine, public health, and public policy experts — to make a decision on when to end mandatory asymptomatic testing.
“They are advisory, but I have never rejected their advice,” he said. “The day will come, I’m certain, when they will say, ‘We should no longer test,’ and I probably will accept their advice when that day comes. It hasn’t come yet.”
—Staff writer Cara J. Chang can be reached at cara.chang@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @CaraChang20.
—Staff writer Isabella B. Cho can be reached at isabella.cho@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @izbcho.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
United States Representative Jamie B. Raskin ’83 (D-Md.) discussed the state of American democracy and the Jan. 6 attack on the U.S. Capitol during a Harvard Institute of Politics forum on Wednesday evening.
Raskin, a graduate of Harvard College and Harvard Law School, serves on the U.S. House’s January 6 Select Committee, which is tasked with investigating the attack on the Capitol that took place that day.
“Our January 6 Select Committee has made tremendous progress towards defining exactly the character of the events on January 6, and the causes behind them,” Raskin said during the forum.
“So I think that we’re making progress, but we’re obviously in a very polarized condition in the country,” he added, placing blame on the Republican Party.
Raskin, who sits on the House Judiciary Committee, served as the House’s lead impeachment manager during former president Donald J. Trump’s second impeachment in January. Trump was impeached by the House, but later acquitted by the U.S. Senate by a 57-43 vote that fell 10 votes short of the required two-thirds threshold.
Asked in an interview prior to the event if the January impeachment proceedings and the Select Committee have done enough to hold Trump accountable, Raskin said, “We convicted him in the court of public opinion.”
“I think we convicted him in the eyes of history, and we certainly convicted him in the eyes of the world,” he said.
The IOP handed out free pocket-sized copies of the U.S. Constitution to every attendee at the forum, which was moderated by Tarina K. Ahuja ’24 and Lauren A. Perl ’25.
“In a democracy, healing comes from truth; it doesn’t come from everybody holding hands,” Raskin said at the start of the event. “In fact, my dad used to say that democracy needs a ground to stand on, and that ground is the truth.”
Raskin, who was elected to Congress in 2016, has served a majority of his tenure with Trump in office. On Wednesday, he criticized the Trump administration for its “rampage against people’s civil rights, civil liberties, and democracy across the country.”
“I think we have one party that is a party of democracy, and that is standing with democracy in America and in Ukraine and all over the world,” Raskin said. “And we have another political party which today much less resembles a modern political party and resembles much more an authoritarian cult of personality.”
In the interview prior to the forum, Raskin said he sees the Republican Party as “a shrinking minority party” that uses “tricks” to gain power, pointing to tactics such as gerrymandering and voter suppression.
During the forum, Raskin called on young people to get involved in activism and politics.
“We need a young generation of Americans engaged in this fight for democracy and to my mind, it is not a partisan fight,” Raskin said.
Raskin said young people should study history, calling them the “heirs to” the “civilizing movements of our time,” including the civil rights movement, the women’s movement, the LGBTQ movement, and the human rights movement.
“Young people are going to get involved in an explosive way and make much stronger demands on the governmental system to address climate change and health care,” Raskin said. “The things that are concerned to your generation.”
Perl, one of the forum’s moderators, told Raskin his faith in young people “has instilled me with such hope and confidence that I hope everybody is walking away with.”
“My dad always used to say, when everything looks hopeless, you’re the hope,” Raskin replied.
—Staff writer Miles J. Herszenhorn contributed reporting.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
UPDATED: April 18, 2022 at 9:50 p.m.
Galdino Guzman-Navarro ’23 was bundling up to go feed his horses on a March day in Nebraska when he got a call from Cambridge, Mass.
An admissions officer was on the phone and informed Guzman-Navarro that he would be admitted to Harvard.
“The guy on the phone with me was like, ‘Yeah, we’re going to admit you,’” Navarro said. “I think the whole thing was just pitching Harvard.”
Colleges send likely letters — or, in some cases, make likely phone calls — to prospective students to notify them they are likely to be admitted on the official decision release date. To receive one is rare: Harvard College doesn’t release how many likely letters it sends out, but in the past, the school has sent roughly 200 to recruited athletes and 100 to non-athletes.
Harvard College Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid William R. Fitzsimmons ’67 said in an interview last month the College uses likely letters to target students from rural areas or otherwise underrepresented backgrounds.
“If you’re, say, the first in your family to go to college and come from a very rural part of America, having a little longer period of time might help you start to get your family ready for the idea that maybe you’re going to be going off a long way away,” Fitzsimmons said.
“You try out a way for people who might be outside that sort of normal, mainstream of applicants to send a signal,” he added.
Across the Ivy League, prospective student-athletes may receive likely letters as part of their recruitment process.
“An admissions office may issue probabilistic communications, in writing, to recruited student-athlete applicants who have submitted all required application materials,” Harvard spokesperson Rachael Dane wrote in an email.
Per Ivy League regulations, colleges can send likely letters to recruited athletes between Oct. 1 and March 15.
Despite their early notification, likely letter recipients, including recruited athletes, are subject to the same review process as all other applicants.
Prior to receiving a likely letter, the athlete must undergo a vote from Harvard’s 40-person admissions committee, according to Dane. The committee meets periodically between October and March to consider candidates.
Student-athlete applicants may only receive a likely letter after having submitted their application in its entirety, per Dane.
Amira Singh ’25, a member of Harvard Women’s Squash, was recruited by Harvard Athletics in April 2020, before formally applying to the College in August.
“It was more of a written confirmation from them that I got the offer [from the coach] and I accepted and then that they would support me throughout the admissions process,” Singh said of her recruitment letter.
Shortly after officially applying, Singh received a likely letter, followed by a formal acceptance in December.
Athletes aren’t the only ones who might receive the coveted likely letter.
Sasha Agarwal ’24-25, an international student from India, received a likely letter that cited her academic, extracurricular, and personal accomplishments.
Zakaree “Zak” Harris, a college counselor at InGenius Prep and a former admissions officer at Bowdoin College, said likely letter recipients are “hitting the mark, literally in every single area.”
“It’s a clear admit because of their academics, and what they’ve done in the classroom, and what they’re doing extracurricularly, what their essays were about, what a recommender is saying about them,” he said. “There’s few people that are going to be better.”
After receiving her formal acceptance, Agarwal received another letter from her regional admissions officer who referenced her nonprofit work in menstrual equity and her supplemental essay on behavioral economics.
“She also just spoke to how my personal story, behind why I’m passionate about neuroscience, was something that stood out to them,” she said.
Dan Lee, co-founder of Solomon Admissions Consulting, said Ivy League and peer institutions rate applicants in a series of categories. Likely letter recipients are typically those who achieve the highest marks in each category, he said.
“At Stanford, it's ‘one to five’ for academics, intellectual vitality, extracurriculars, personal, and other metrics as well,” Lee said. “A student who’s a ‘one’ across the board would be exceedingly rare and that's the type of student who would most likely get a likely letter.”
Harvard, too, ranks applicants on a scale of ‘one’ to ‘six’ in areas like academics, extracurriculars, personal qualities, and athletic ability.
“In terms of maxing out your chances of getting a likely letter, you have to max out the metrics that they’re looking at,” he said.
“It comes down to yield and also recruiting,” Lee said. “These universities have different institutional goals, whether it be recruited athletes or recruiting a certain number of underrepresented minorities.”
“The likely letters are given at the intersection of whatever the school's institutional goals are — where that meets students,” he said.
Lee sees likely letters as a tool schools use to encourage top students to enroll at their institution, citing Yale’s distribution of likely letters to strong applicants in the STEM fields as an effort to vitalize the college’s STEM programs.
“It’s for the purpose of getting the student to come to campus because, obviously, elite universities are competing with each other for these very top students,” Lee said. “They want to signal to these students that ‘Hey, you know, we really want you at Harvard.’”
Fitzsimmons said in the March interview that Harvard uses likely letters as a “recruiting device” to attract “very, very good applicants.”
“They’re also usually likely to be people who are receiving admissions as they go along from other places, or versions of likely letters,” Fitzsimmons said. “A lot of places, public and private, have so-called merit awards that they give special incentives.”
“Our feeling is we don’t do merit scholarships, and we don’t have those kinds of incentives, where we see somebody like that we can send the likely as a signal,” he added.
Still, Grant A. Meiners ’22-’23, a likely letter recipient from rural Iowa, said his early notification did not make an impact on his decision to attend Harvard.
“Ultimately, where I went to college came down to financial aid,” he said. “Harvard’s just better in that department.”
—Staff writer Rahem D. Hamid can be reached at rahem.hamid@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Nia L. Orakwue can be reached at nia.orakwue@thecrimson.com.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard Corporation Senior Fellow William F. Lee ’72 discussed the lawsuit challenging Harvard’s race-conscious admissions policies during an event at the University’s first-ever Equity, Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Forum on Wednesday.
The University’s Chief Diversity and Inclusion Officer, Sherri Ann Charleston, joined Lee, who served as Harvard’s lead counsel in the trial challenging its race-conscious admissions system. The suit, which seeks to overturn affirmative action in higher education, is set to be taken up by the Supreme Court in the fall alongside a similar case against the University of North Carolina.
The three-day virtual EDIB forum, themed “Reimagine Our Community,” kicked off on Tuesday. It features speakers such as actress Lauren Ridloff and Black Voters Matter Fund co-founder LaTosha Brown, along with interactive activities and breakout room discussions. During the final day of programming on Thursday, the event will include panel discussions with Brown, Harvard University Police Department Chief Victor A. Clay, and Harvard Human Resources Vice President Manuel Cuevas-Trisán.
On Wednesday, Lee discussed the admissions lawsuits brought by the anti-affirmative action group Students for Fair Admissions, which charge that Harvard College and UNC discriminate against Asian American applicants and violate civil rights law by considering race in their admissions processes. Lower courts have ruled in favor of both schools, which deny the allegations.
The Supreme Court agreed to take up the cases earlier this year, setting the stage for a decision that could determine the future of affirmative action in higher education.
At the forum, Lee defended Harvard’s race-conscious admissions policies.
“No one’s getting admitted that isn’t in that group of 15,000 fully qualified people,” he said.
“I think it’s unfair to assume that people who are of a certain demographic are somehow unqualified, because they’re all qualified. Every single one of them,” he added.
Lee rejected the allegation that Harvard’s admissions policies are discriminatory.
“If I thought there was affirmative discrimination against Asian Americans, I would not be the lead trial lawyer,” he said.
Charleston also defended Harvard’s admissions policies, emphasizing the importance of diversity in education.
“When we make our community universally designed and accessible, it’s actually not just benefiting some people, but benefiting all of us,” Charleston said.
Lee said there were few students of color on campus during his time at Harvard.
“Almost everybody that arrives on the Harvard campus, and it was certainly true of me, has the imposter syndrome,” Lee said. “The more diverse the community, the more sensitive we need to be to the fact that people will have those concerns.”
Lee also discussed the potential impact of the case beyond Harvard’s campus.
“I think the issues that the court will consider, as I said earlier, have implications well beyond Harvard, well beyond all universities, well beyond all universities and colleges, but for society more broadly,” he said.
“Harvard being Harvard, in some sense, the public almost reads too much into everything we do, both positively and negatively,” he added.
Concluding the discussion, Lee reiterated his belief that fostering diversity and inclusion complements the mission of higher education.
“There are some people who believe that our efforts to assemble a diverse community, and promote the interest of diversity and inclusion and equity, are somehow in conflict with free speech and free thought, which have driven universities and their success for many years,” he said. “I want you to know that, at least I believe, that’s just not true.”
—Staff writer Yusuf S. Mian can be reached at yusuf.mian@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @yusuf_mian2.
—Staff writer Charlotte P. Ritz-Jack can be reached at charlotte.ritz-jack@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @Charritzjack.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The men’s lacrosse team’s six-game winning streak was brought to a halt by Cornell on Saturday, when the Crimson lost to the Big Red 17-9.
Play on both ends of the field was not up to Harvard’s usual crisp and clean caliber. The offense looked congested and forced its shots. On the other side, the defense played locked-down for the first quarter, keeping the score even at 1-1, but let up by the second and began missing slides and miscommunicating in the middle.
The attack did best when moving the ball quickly and with a purpose. The team only scored once in the first half, with the initial strike coming from senior attacker Austin Madronic with 2:43 left in the first quarter. After this, Cornell went on a nine-goal stretch to break open a 10-1 lead. The Crimson finally broke this run in the third when first-year midfielder Joe Dowling scored, fostering a bit of momentum to pull Harvard back into action.
Hoping to continue its rally, the Crimson scored three more goals in the third quarter; Madronic, senior midfielder Charlie Olmert, and junior attacker Hayden Cheek all contributed. However, this was not enough to complete the comeback, even with two-goal performances by first-year midfielders Miles Botkiss and Andrew Perry in the fourth.
“It wasn’t our best game, but our 10 man ride put a lot of pressure on them,” Cheek said. “As we prepare for Penn, we need to focus on clearing as well as playing with urgency on offense.”
Harvard did a solid job on its ride, only allowing Cornell to clear 14 out of its 22 takes. On the flip side, clearing was an apparent point of weakness for the Crimson, as it struggled to get the ball over the 50 against Cornell’s tight 10 man ride. Harvard went 18 for 24 on the day.
“I think we played really hard and competed, but we failed to execute a lot of things from an Xs and Os perspective,” senior fogo Steven Cuccurullo said. “We lost the ground ball battle which led to a possession disadvantage. Moving forward I expect us to continue to work hard and compete, but will need to improve on groundballs and clearing in order to win.”
Harvard went just 11 for 29 on the face off, with senior Kyle Massimilian going 4 for 9 and senior Steven Cuccurullo clamping 7 of his 18 takes. The wings played solidly, with sophomore LSM Greg Campisi scooping up 3 ground balls.
The team’s strong first-quarter defense was led by senior goalie Kyle Mullin. Throughout the game, Mullin was the backbone of the unit, boasting 17 saves on the day. On the other side of the field, Cornell’s senior goalie Chayse Ierlan turned in a strong performance as well, saving 12 Crimson shots. Mullin was flanked by first-year defenders Collin Bergstrom and Tommy Martinson, as well as junior Chase Strupp. The unit had great communication in the early stages, but began to weaken in its rotations as Cornell gained more momentum, which left Cornell players open up top for the skip passes, as well as cutting through the middle.
“We had a tough time clearing against their 10 man ride, but I think we’ll be better prepared in that aspect this weekend,” Bergstrom noted. “It’s definitely something that we’re going to be focusing on in practice.”
The team will look to tighten up on the clear, defensive slides, as well as being patient and looking for clean takes on offense as it prepares for its next game Saturday against Penn. Harvard will battle the Quakers in Philadelphia at 3:30 p.m. The game can be streamed on ESPN+.
–Staff writer Katharine Forst can be reached at katharine.forst@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Crimson waters wafted with victory once more as Harvard crew teams secured medals and retained cups in Northeast rivers outside of the Charles this past weekend.
While the women’s heavyweight rowing team was unable to outpace No. 14 Syracuse, the Radcliffe Lightweights took home two silver medals down in New Jersey. The men’s heavyweight team also picked up the Stein Cup in Seekonk River, defeating the No. 6 Brown Bears.
WOMEN’S LIGHTWEIGHT ROWING
The Knecht Cup Regatta in Cherry Hill, N.J. was nothing short of an exhilarating race for the Black and White.
In the grand final of the fours, the team placed first in the entire event. On the second day of the race, the No. 2 Radcliffe Lightweights pulled off two second-place finishes in the final race and petite final of the Varsity Eights.
The first place finish came from one of the womens’ doubles boats, passing Beantown neighbors, the Boston University Terriers, by a swift 2.95 seconds. The other Radcliffe Fours boat was only 0.94 seconds behind the other boat of Terriers.
These fast-recorded times earned both Varsity Four boats a spot in the grand finals for the second day of the regatta.
The Varsity Eight boat pulled in only 3.11 seconds behind No. 3 Stanford to take the silver medal home to Cambridge. The Terriers only missed the second-place finish by 0.27 seconds, taking third place.
The second boat of Varsity Eights competed in the petite final, but were outpaced by Delaware by 2.38 seconds.
Next up for the lightweights is a race against hometown rivals Boston University and MIT for a friendly bout on the Charles River on April 16.
WOMEN’S HEAVYWEIGHT ROWING
The Radcliffe Heavyweights traveled down to Saratoga Springs, N.Y. for the Saratoga Invitational. The Black and White were not able to stop the Syracuse Varsity Eight boat, which outpaced the Crimson by an eighteen-second margin.
In the first two races of the day, the Varsity Fours and Eights, both Crimson boats finished in third place. The Varsity Fours and Eights boats of heavyweights both came short of beating Princeton by just over 12 seconds in each race.
The Crimson fell short again to Princeton in the third Varsity Eight race, but pulled off a nail-biting 3.2 victory to Cornell in the first flight. In the second boat of fours followed with a 3 second victory over Syracuse in the final race of the day.
Unfortunately for the Crimson, these two victories were not enough to keep No. 14 Syracuse from retaining the Elizabeth H. O’Leary Cup, a trophy named after Radcliffe Coach Liz O’Leary. During the mid-afternoon, two Syracuse boats of varsity eights reeled into the finish line in under seven minutes.
The Radcliffe Heavyweights will next travel down to Housatonic River in Connecticut for a regatta against Yale and Northeastern on April 23.
MEN’S HEAVYWEIGHT ROWING
The No. 5 Harvard men’s heavyweight rowing team won big over No. 6 Brown for the Stein Cup in Providence, R.I. this past weekend.
There were five races on the Seekonk River, and Harvard was victorious in four out of the five.
The Crimson outpaced the Bears by 4.3 seconds in the Varsity Eight race to win the cup.
In the other four races, Harvard dominated Brown in varying second margins. The 3V and 4V boats each beat the Bears by 21.3 seconds, with the 4V boat pulling in in under seven minutes.
Though the heavyweight 2V boat lost to Brown by just 10.9 seconds, the fifth varsity boat called for a photo finish with Harvard finishing first by a fast 2.4 seconds.
This marks yet another Stein Cup victory for Harvard. The Heavyweights will now turn their heads towards a rally on the Charles River with age-old rival Princeton this Saturday, April 16.
MENS LIGHTWEIGHT ROWING
Though the men’s lightweight rowing team did not compete this weekend, the crew will next hold the Biglin Bowl on home waters against Ivy rival Dartmouth and red line neighbor MIT this Saturday, April 16.
— Staff writer Mairead Baker can be reached at mairead.baker@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @baker_mairead.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
