News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
“Forsan et haec olim meminisse iuvabit,” Aeneas says to the surviving Trojans as they take shelter in an inlet on the coast of Libya, far away from their home sacked by the Greeks, their fleet wrecked by a divine storm.
“Perhaps one day it will help us to remember this too.”
Maybe embarrassingly for a classics joint concentrator, there aren’t many lines in the “Aeneid” that I can recite by memory, but this one is engraved in my mind.
Aeneas and his men are suffering through no fault of their own, casualties of a war provoked by the gods’ arrogance and Paris’ desire. They’re suffering from a past that they failed to prevent, yet one they couldn’t have avoided. Aeneas’ solution is to move forward despite the overwhelming pain, to use the experience to create a better future. It makes sense; really, what else could he do? Ruminating about regret, refusing to allow ourselves to move on, only leads to a desperate wish for time to stop and an endless, spiraling present.
In his “resume of failures and setbacks,” Dean Khurana normalizes failure, writing, “Your failures are not you. Failures and setbacks are part of taking risks and living.” Failures are often our fault, but they aren’t part of us, nor unique to us; in the course of life, Trojan heroes experienced setbacks, and so do we. When I embarrassed myself on stream in a “Super Smash Bros.” tournament, that wasn’t me. When in my Harvard interview I accidentally made an ableist comment, that wasn’t me. When I left my final visit with my best friend, our Braille Monopoly game half-finished, not knowing that I’d never see him again — even then, that wasn’t me.
In case it sounds like denial, I mean it literally: It wasn’t me. The past is gone, and my past self too. That was me back then, and still my fault, but not the me I am now — and the present is all that exists. We change, and we grow; such is the spirit of the growth-based mindset that we’re repeatedly taught here. The problem is that we often don’t follow it, not because we don’t want to, but because we can’t manage it. This culture of normalizing failure is absolutely necessary, but in its one-size-fits-all application to everything from disappointing exam scores to car accidents, it trivializes how difficult coping with regret can truly be.
“Just move on! A failure is only a chance to grow, that’s all. It doesn’t define you. Just move on!”
If only it were so simple to prevent the pain of failure from taking over and locking us in a cycle of regret. Forsan et haec olim meminisse iuvabit; yet even Aeneas cries in grief at the destruction of his home. Wanting to move on, even choosing to move on, is separate from being able to do so — a distinction that we too often simplify in a well-meaning attempt to show that self-recovery from mistakes and setbacks is possible. In fact, this mindset paradoxically treats one’s inability to move on after failure as a failure in itself, as a mark of weakness, when instead we need to acknowledge that such self-acceptance may take conscious effort spanning days or even years. And that’s okay.
The growth-based model of failure breaks down further when our mistakes and failures have harmed others, a situation where a promise of future improvement falls flat in a hopeless present. When an outcome is in the past, and we wish we could turn back the clock and make amends, but it’s probably too late; when a decision we ourselves made led to an outcome that hurt others, whether a close friend or a stranger — how do we live with that? The Trojans suffered from circumstances outside their control, but what if Troy’s destruction had been their fault? Could their actions — and likewise, our own harmful mistakes — be forgiven? If not, how can we even want to forgive ourselves when it means moving on from the comfortable safety of pain and frozen time towards the doubt and fear that come with embracing the past and self-acceptance?
I really want to know.
The fact that my failures aren’t part of me, that I’ve since learned and grown, means nothing when a friend has suffered by my fault. The pain feels crushing, just as much now as it originally was. And it makes me wonder: What if? What if I’d recognized and understood my behavior a little earlier? What if I had just one more chance? What if I were a better person who deserved what I had?
I did enough, right? I wouldn’t be here if I weren’t trying to make up for it, right? But then, where did I go wrong? What am I doing here?
What I’m doing here, I guess, is living.
We’re human. We fail people and we wrong them, because we didn’t understand, because we couldn’t do better. That our intent to help and the effort we commit don’t always matter is a painful truth, but accepting it shows respect for the people we hurt and lets us keep learning, keep moving on, so that maybe one day we’ll finally figure out how to truly be the person we need to be once the time comes again.
We feel guilt for a reason, after all: it serves the evolutionary purpose of repairing and strengthening cooperation by promoting trustworthy apologies and forgiveness. It improves us as people. So although we frame failures and mistakes as facts of life to accept, glance at, and then disregard, they’re more than routine annoyances. Ignoring our regret and our desire to do everything over again isn’t strength or growth — it’s the only true failure. By balancing the idea that our mistakes don’t define us with the commitment to hold our regret close, we can accept failure as an opportunity for genuine growth while also forgiving ourselves. The process will take a different form for everyone, but one day, our guilt-ridden hopes for the past can become our imagination for the future, and frozen time can flow again.
I think Virgil understood that concept. Aeneas’ line can be translated in another way: “Perhaps one day it will please us to remember this too.” I don’t know if it will ever make me happy to remember how far I’ve moved on from these depths I’ve sunk to; I don’t even know whether I’ll be able to forgive myself anytime soon.
But I do know that I’ll do my best to make the future what I wish the past had been, and maybe one day, surely someday, I’ll smile. A smile that says, “I’ve made mistakes, I’ve failed, and memories overwhelm me; but even if it’s too late to take everything back, I’ll carry these experiences with me, and I’ll grow.”
Forsan et haec olim meminisse iuvabit.
Ben T. Elwy ’23 lives in Quincy House. Their column, “The Smiles We Choose,” appears on alternating Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
“Meghan O’Sullivan, you can’t hide, we can see your war crimes!”
“When missiles fly, people die, and O’Sullivan’s profits multiply!”
Activists from two groups — “Resist and Abolish the Military Industrial Complex” and “United Against War and Militarism” — marched into the classroom of Harvard Kennedy School professor Meghan L. O’Sullivan on Oct. 5, chanting these slogans and thrusting her once again into controversy.
Over a dozen anti-war activists protested O’Sullivan’s professional background as a former deputy national security advisor for Iraq and Afghanistan under U.S. President George W. Bush and a current sitting member of defense contractor Raytheon Technologies’ board of directors.
Though we must condemn the protesters’ methods — allowing non-affiliates to disrupt Harvard classes seems a dangerous precedent to set — we sympathize with their concerns: O’Sullivan’s non-academic activities, in particular her links to Raytheon, are a stain on our institution.
To be clear, we understand that much of the expertise on issues necessarily and unfortunately lies with people whose views we may vehemently disagree with. We understand that institutions like Harvard, in service of increasing our understanding of vital policy issues, will regularly hire such people.
Without calling for O’Sullivan’s firing, we still condemn her choice to retain a seat on Raytheon’s board in the wake of that company’s specific and repugnant actions following the outbreak of war in Yemen. Even as evidence mounted that Saudi Arabia was committing potential war crimes in Yemen, Raytheon not only sold bombs to the Saudi regime — to the tune of $3 billion immediately after the conflict broke — but heavily lobbied the U.S. government to allow such sales to continue, whitewashing conflict-related (or perhaps profit-justified) atrocities.
There is no reasonable defense for Raytheon’s sale of weapons to a government committing apparent war crimes beyond the lining of a few American pockets. There is no valid excuse for the slaughtering of children.
To see news reports of Saudi Arabia’s cruel and deeply immoral war-waging — including the deaths of thousands of civilians at weddings, funerals, and even on school buses — and then choose to resupply that very government is not only unconscionable.
It’s almost laughably evil.
By continuing her involvement with Raytheon, O’Sullivan has demonstrated extraordinarily bad judgment at best and frank, dark immorality at worst. No matter what one thinks of military contractors or American foreign policy in general, material support for the alleged commission of war crimes should be a line that none of us want to cross.
The tempting appeal of changing systems “from the inside” — so familiar to supposedly idealistic Harvard students courted by Goldman Sachs or McKinsey & Co. — falls flat here. As a Harvard professor, O’Sullivan had the opportunity to make an unusually large symbolic impact by loudly resigning.
Yet she has chosen — in the face of blood and carnage and piling Yemeni bodies — not to do so.
The logic of working from the inside must have limits; it cannot justify employees who stand by their employer no matter what. We all must have moral lines we will never cross, and O’Sullivan has had the opportunity to demonstrate that by showing what principled engagement with an imperfect world should look like. Instead, she has tacitly endorsed a worldview devoid of red lines — at least when it comes to middle eastern civilians — while seeking to remain engaged, through her Harvard position, with polite society.
We call on O’Sullivan to resign — not because of external pressure but because it would be wrong not to. Not out of pressure, but out of sheer, justified shame.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
SALEM, Mass. — For those seeking a quiet day trip, coming here on a Saturday in October is a mistake. Copious traffic can be a nightmare to navigate, and the commuter rail will undoubtedly be packed to the brim with people dressed up in tones of black, brown, or olive green. The crowd would probably look the same if the train car was headed for a convention for hair dye, cartilage piercings, or tote bags.
The crowd is most likely headed to celebrate spooky season in the historic city — where, in 1692, 20 people were executed on charges of witchcraft. October is by far the most profitable month for the town’s tourism industry. This celebration, dubbed “Haunted Happenings,” is marked by orange banners hanging from the city’s light posts, merchandise displaying witch caricatures, and endless vendors of metaphysical supplies lining the streets.
Even the tourists are dressed up in wide-brimmed hats and dark lipstick — the number of women in witch hats is too many to count. The Halloween spirit will smack you in the face as soon as you pass City Hall walking South on Washington St., probably immersed in a flock of tourists.
At the end of the day, though, Salem is not just a popular destination for those seeking Halloween festivities. It’s a residential town where the buildings aren’t much taller than the highest church steeple, and it’s the site of a historical tragedy.
“There are several museums and attractions where you can learn more about the witch trials when you’re in Salem,” says Kate L. Fox, executive director of Destination Salem. “That history is something we hope people take something from when they’re here, but in October the visitation is often much more focused on having fun.”
As Zachary S. Jacobsen, an employee at the Magic Parlor and practitioner of witchcraft, puts it, “The atmosphere of Salem depends on who you are. For some people, they might find it very loud and very in your face. For others, they find it to be exciting.”
Something else that will hit you is the contrast between the celebration and the history. One minute, you’re on Essex St. listening to someone perform a drum solo on a set of upside down buckets and metal dishes — one so surprisingly good that they periodically exclaim, “It’s working!” But then, as you walk down the path that connects Essex to Charter St., the music fades, and by the time you reach the other side of the block, the beat is gone.
There, at 51 Charter St., you’ll find the burial ground. It’s one of the few places in Salem where a musician hasn’t set up shop. The air is heavier and the history becomes more apparent. There are still people talking — albeit a bit quieter at the sight of the tombstones — but it feels silent.
The memorial, a stone wall with slabs jutting out, sits in front of the burial ground. On each slab is inscribed the name of a witch trial victim and how and when they were killed. For Giles Corey, whose inscription reads “pressed to death,” a few stones rest on the slab — offerings from tourists that have passed by before.
Salem’s history is displayed both at this memorial and at the plaque on the corner of Front St. and Washington St., an installation by the nonprofit Voices Against Injustice. It is inscribed with a quote from Holocaust survivor Elie Wiesel: “The opposite of love is not hate, it’s indifference.”
East of the burial ground lies yet another facet of Salem — the residential area. It’s hard to imagine, especially in the midst of the October crowds, that anyone could live in Salem without having their peace interrupted by rambunctious tourists, music at all hours, and unmanageable traffic.
But the municipality of Salem largely keeps the crowds away from the houses, guiding tourists with painted yellow lines on the sidewalk that lead them between destinations. The city also keeps the noise to a minimum by only allowing performances on certain streets and at certain decibel levels — keeping tourism “confined to one month,” Fox says.
“We have a lot of people who are descended from victims of the trials who come to Salem,” Fox says. “Some come during the rest of the year when it’s not October, and they do that on purpose because they don’t want to get involved in the Haunted Happenings revelry.”
Jacobsen sees Haunted Happenings as a celebration of the victims. Rather than exploiting a tragedy, the modern visitors and vendors of Salem flourish in the city’s unique culture. “The persecuted have become the populace. This is now Witch City,” he says.
Salem doesn’t dictate a singular impression to its visitors. It offers multiple entry points: to shop, to learn, to reflect, to live. The relationship between residential, historic, and commercial Salem is best summed up by Fox, who says, “There’s a lot going on, and I always like to say that those three themes operate on parallel paths. And sometimes they’re very close together, and sometimes they’re further apart.”
— Magazine writer Jem K. Williams can be reached at jem.williams@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @jemkwilliams.
Sections
A little stream flows through several clusters of dawn redwoods at Harvard’s Arnold Arboretum, dampening the dark, soft wood of their trunks.
These trees were presumed to have been extinct for millions of years until 1941, when a cluster was found in China’s Hubei province, hidden away in the remote Mou-tao-chi valley. Now, the Metasequoia glyptostroboides grow in small groups around the Arboretum, just as they do in the eponymous Metasequoia Valley, according to Lisa Pearson, head of the Arboretum’s library and archives.
“Their name in Chinese, shui-sha, means water fir,” Pearson says. “They like having their feet not wet-wet, but near the water to put their toes in. They like the moisture, and it’s a perfect area: Our meadow is sometimes completely flooded out.”
Though they grow peacefully now, the redwoods didn’t come to Harvard without “a big fight in the tree world,” as a 1952 Crimson article put it. Science journalists argued over whether Elmer D. Merrill, a former Harvard botany professor, or Ralph W. Chaney, professor of paleontology at the University of California Berkeley, had brought the seeds to the U.S.
Merrill, then director of the Arnold Arboretum, had established a collaboration with Chinese botanists to meet the institution’s financial and scientific needs. “I haven’t forgotten our conversation regarding ‘raids’ on China from a horticultural-botanical standpoint,” he wrote in a 1947 letter to a fellow American botanist.
Merrill had discovered that, instead of sending high-salaried botanists to China to conduct fieldwork, he could simply employ Chinese botanists for a fraction of the price. This began around 1915, when Chinese students who had studied in the U.S., often at the Arnold Arboretum, returned to China to conduct field work.
Merrill then “continued this exploitation” on behalf of arboreta and botanical gardens across the U.S., as he boasted in the same letter. “There has not been a single failure … In general for what it would cost to send one man from here and cover his salary and travel expenses, I could maintain a dozen expeditions in China.” From one of these expeditions, launched in 1948, the Arnold Arboretum acquired 1 kilogram of Metasequoia seeds. The seeds, Pearson mentions, are the size of “one of the little plastic heads on a straight pin,” making collecting 1 kilo an “amazing accomplishment.”
But soon after Merrill received these seeds, Chaney traveled to China’s Mou-tao-chi Valley, where he took a series of striking photos. In one, a family stands between the thick, gnarled trunks of two dawn redwoods — shui-sha — holding hands and giggling. The trees have thick, gnarled trunks, huge at the base and rising high above neighboring trees. Great gaping roots appear easy for a child to snuggle into. Petite strands of ivy climb up the soft wood. Next to Chaney’s photos, Merrill penciled a note: “Who couldn’t wait for collecting season.”
Though Chaney never actually claimed to have discovered or procured the trees, the publicity photographs he took in Mou-tao-chi Valley were enough to convince the press — and even many botanists.
“Credit is credit in any man’s language,” a Crimson article cites Merrill grumbling. “Chaney had nothing to do with it; the Arnold Arboretum of Harvard University deserved all the credit.” Merrill later groused to a colleague about The Crimson’s coverage: “There were a couple of boners in the article.”
According to Pearson, Merrill did not necessarily want all the credit, but probably felt like Chaney was trying to steal his thunder. “It’s a case of two big personalities butting heads with each other,” she says. “Neither of them came out looking particularly well after that.”
Harvard’s dawn redwood collection grew from the foundation provided by Merrill’s “raids” on Chinese botany. Hu Hsen Hsu, director of the Fan Memorial Institute of Biology in China, worked with Merrill to classify the new species, collect seeds, and ship them to the Arnold Arboretum. Merrill sent him $250 U.S. dollars to fund the expedition — the equivalent of a little over $3,000 today.
The “student-teacher relationship” the Chinese had with the American botanists early on did not last, Pearson says. “The Chinese students were learning from us. By the time the Metasequoias were discovered, it had really blossomed into a partnership of colleagues.”
Merrill went on to ship the dawn redwood seeds to arboreta and botanical gardens around the world. Today, they grow in Harvard Yard, outside Elmwood, the University President’s residence, and in the Arboretum itself, where a grove sits across from the main Hunnewell building.
While conflict between the two professors took center stage, neither was able to preserve relations with Chinese botanists when China closed in 1949 after the Chinese Revolution.
According to Pearson, it was Dr. Shiu-ying Hu, the second Chinese woman to receive a doctoral degree in botany from Harvard, who kept the ties open. Hu studied the flora of Hong Kong, and slipped new articles and books to her Chinese colleagues in secret.
“[Hu] was a ball of fire,” Pearson says. “She was a trailblazer in that she stood up for her rights.” When she began working at the Arboretum as a botanist, Hu’s salary was equivalent to that of the janitor’s.
Her work paved the way for several Sino-American botanical expeditions and conferences in the late 1970s and early ’80s. These, in turn, led to the present-day North America China Plant Exploration Consortium, a collaborative effort to preserve rare Chinese and North American plants. Utilizing these ties, the Arboretum collects seeds, brings new genetics into the gene pool of existing trees at the Arboretum, and then ships genetically diverse seeds all over the world.
Despite the challenges posed by climate change, Harvard’s dawn redwoods have been thriving. “The area where dawn redwood comes from is actually a little bit warmer than it has been here traditionally,” Pearson says, “so actually they’ll be even happier here now as things warm up a little bit.”
You can find Metasequoia glyptostroboides around the Yard, in the Arnold Arboretum at Jamaica Plain, or all the way across the globe.
Correction: October 19, 2022:
A previous version of this article incorrectly stated the Arnold Arboretum acquired 2 kilograms of Metasequoia seeds from an expedition to China launched in 1948. In fact, the Arboretum acquired 1 kilogram of Metasequoia seeds.
Sections
Yael Bensoussan, an otolaryngology specialist affiliated with the Tampa General Hospital in Florida, can often deduce a patient’s potential medical diagnosis simply by listening to their voice.
“When I close my eyes and somebody comes into my office, I can usually tell a lot,” she says. “I can tell if they’re happy or sad, I can tell if they’re a male or female, I can tell about how old they are, I can usually tell what disease they have.”
Bensoussan’s experience with her patients’ voices sparked a question: could she harness the power of artificial intelligence —voice recognition technology, in this case — as a simple, non-invasive way to identify disease?
Her inquiry fits into a larger, ongoing movement to integrate the field of AI with medicine. The National Institutes of Health’s Bridge to Artificial Intelligence program, or Bridge2AI, recently awarded grants to four research projects working to integrate AI into the health care sector.
Bensoussan is a principal investigator on one of these projects: Voice as a Biomarker for Health. Her project aims to create a foundation for integrating AI into the work that head and neck doctors do. Achieving this goal involves many moving parts: data generation and collection, creating specific software and technology like apps for safe and ethical data collection, and social engineering to connect health professionals across the country and the world.
However, developing a procedure that delivers reproducible results is not the only concern for researchers like Bensoussan. The burgeoning field of AI in medicine comes with a host of potential ethical challenges: for example, technology might not be trained on data that is representative of the populations it intends to serve, integrating AI into a hospital system might be too expensive for low-resource settings, or data collection might threaten patient privacy.
Francis X. Shen, a professor at the Harvard Medical School Center for Bioethics who has an interdisciplinary background in law and neuroscience, focuses his work on these ethical considerations.
“One of the foundational ideas is that rather than wait for problems to arise, you want to do anticipatory governance — you want to think about research and innovation,” Shen says.
Shen is a member of the Ethical and Trustworthy AI Module on another Bridge2AI-funded project at Massachusetts General Hospital, called the Patient-Focused Collaborative Repository Uniting Standards for Equitable AI. CHoRUS aims to improve recovery from acute illness by using software programs trained to flag vulnerable patients who might need critical care — such as those with sepsis, seizures, cardiac arrest, heart failure, lung injury, or dangerous levels of intracranial pressure..
For both of these Bridge2AI researchers, the process of data collection is a pressing ethical concern. Existing datasets that are used to train AI tend to be lacking in diversity and representation, posing a major challenge to equitable treatment.
Bensoussan’s team is trying to assemble a diverse dataset that meets quotas for race, ethnicity, and, because the tool relates to voice recognition, even accent. In order to do so, her research team partners with low-resource clinics that serve diverse populations.
Working in these types of clinics makes another related ethical consideration especially apparent: the need to improve access to emerging AI technologies that may be expensive to mass-produce.
“A part of the mission should be to create these technologies in a way that closes the health gap between the Global South and the Global North, between those who have more or less within countries, rather than exacerbate these gaps once again,” says Vardit Ravitsky, another faculty member at the HMS Center for Bioethics and a principal investigator for the ethics modules of two Bridge2AI projects. “If we standardize things and ... make diagnostic tools and decision-making more accessible, then we’re closing gaps between different environments that have different levels of resources.”
As AI technologies in health care become increasingly accessible, they threaten to infringe on data privacy — another ethical issue Ravitsky is studying.
“We all know that we live in a world where privacy is either completely gone or has no meaning now,” she says, mentioning the impact of social media and the practice of sending genetic information to commercial companies. “We can either try to protect privacy according to past models or we can try to come up with more sophisticated understandings of what privacy is and how it might be threatened.”
Ravitsky and her teams plan to conduct extensive literature reviews, supplemented by a stakeholder forum where clinicians, researchers, patients, families, and scientists come together to discuss what privacy should look like.
“The novel aspect of consent and privacy here [is] that if we’re going to learn new things about human beings, maybe our promises to keep things confidential will not be maintained, because this project will discover new ways of identifying people,” Ravitsky says. She explains that one challenge sheand her colleagues must overcome is determining how to accurately inform participants about privacy risks before they enroll in a study when these risks may evolve over time as the technology does.
Alongside individual privacy concerns, the Bridge2AI projects face the additional challenge of combating general public mistrust of AI in medicine.
“If we don’t learn how to communicate clearly to the public ... the reliability and trustworthiness of AI in medicine, we’re going to lose the benefits of this technology because people will resist it,” Ravitsky says, referencing how this same loss of public trust led to vaccine hesitancy during the Covid-19 pandemic.
As the Bridge2AI project is still in its infancy, the risks and benefits of the technologies the different research teams are developing remain unclear. But even as researchers grapple with various ethical challenges, they remain optimistic about the transformative potential of their technologies.
“The idea of developing a technology that would make something that’s very cutting-edge, and potentially very beneficial, accessible to everybody everywhere through a cheap, non-invasive collection process —” Ravisky says, “to me, that is hugely attractive.”
Sections
Before I saw Harvard through my own eyes, I saw it through Zadie Smith’s. The absurdity of accepting an admissions offer from a school, a city, a state — a country — all purely from my imagination was dampened, if only momentarily, by turning the page as I turned the corner of the streets of Cambridge with Zadie (for whom a first-name basis feels right) leading the way. Before I even knew what Harvard looked like, I had sipped coffee in a campus library café with Howard Belsey — the left-wing, brave-hearted academic of British working-class origins at the centre of the novel — attended a performance of Mozart’s “Requiem” at Boston Common as one of the Belseys, and, in a way only Zadie could capture, smelled the air of entitlement and elitism that I was about to breathe.
Yet as I read “On Beauty,” her wonder of a 2005 novel, I couldn’t shake the one central mystery it posed: does Harvard by any other name sound as sweet? It was one thing to read about “Wellington College” (Zadie’s fictional name for Harvard) and another to see the “tall, garnet-coloured buildings in the New England style” she writes of for myself. What I didn’t know was that there were other ways that Zadie was bracing my 12,638 km fall from Johannesburg to Boston; that with a new country comes a new politics, as unfamiliar to me as driving down the right side of the road.
That those politics would concern me was something to which I was even more blissfully naive. I’d thought endlessly about how being Black and African made it harder for me to reach Harvard’s wrought-iron gates, but not at all that some mystical set of hands was supposedly prying them wide open for me. And I’m not centering myself here: before I could think about affirmative action in terms of the political or the personal, Zadie made it all too clear that the two are one and the same. As academic clashes with academic — Belsey clashes with Kipps — and radicalism clashes with conservatism, hope clashes with despair, optimism with naivety, joy with altruism, and love with life.
Perhaps it will only be in retrospect that my Black and brown classmates and I come to terms with the effects of having your place in this larger-than-life university called into question by the land’s highest court. Had Zadie chosen sides and written not a novel but a statement of her own beliefs about the education system, “On Beauty” might not resonate as strongly as it does today in understanding who gets into a school like Harvard, who doesn’t, and why and how. Her goal isn’t persuasion, nor even reconciliation — the two ends of the spectrum are intolerably at odds; she’s acutely aware of this. She simply wants to know: why do people think the way they do? Why are we so susceptible to the pull of viral ideas? What do our politics say about who we are? There’s a reason she called her first collection of essays “Changing My Mind.”
If there is a position that Zadie takes, it’s one that Harvard also uses in its central defence of its admissions policies: that diversity is a virtue in and of itself. How floral and lovely that sounds in the abstract: that universally accessible and therefore arguable idea that the diversity of the many enriches the one, that it is worth something far beyond syllabi and course materials to learn in an environment that looks different than the one you came from. But is it as pretty up close?
I’d so love to be a contrarian, to bask in the self-importance and righteousness that comes with opposing the establishment, to tell Harvard, “I see through you.” But in this case, it really is true what they say. Who knew that the way Turkish perpetuates patriarchy through its grammar and language is the same as in IsiZulu; that kids from Poland, Myanmar, and China could find common ground at 2 a.m. in an empty common room over having been surveilled by their states; or even that Harvard can look the same when viewed from Beirut as from Johannesburg. Who knew I could find so many different meanings and understandings and interactions of what it meant to call oneself Black in a sea of white. Who knew that I could find, in someone from an entirely culturally different country than my own, a sense of home.
None of this could’ve happened by chance. I’ve felt my world expand in ways I couldn’t have imagined precisely because of the intentionality with which Harvard picks its class, in the same way that I’d like to believe those around me have been even the tiniest bit better for hearing me talk endlessly about life in South Africa. Amongst my deepest fears in coming to Harvard — a school that, from anywhere outside of America, one only really has a mystical idea of — was that I would feel as though I was at the school but never truly of it. To find myself surrounded by 18-year-olds just as uneasy about the continental voyages they’ve just taken is a deep comfort.
In this way, Harvard’s considering identity in the class that it builds seems far less about any outward preference or discrimination or desire to actualise an abstract theory of redress than it seems purely selfish — the more pluralistic the class is, the more vibrant and stimulating it is, the more different the backgrounds its students have learned in are, the more they learn from each other here. Amid the culture war that the affirmative action debate has descended into, Zadie’s twisted account of her time here is a reminder of just how beautiful the culture itself is.
“On Beauty” is a book that poses more questions than it answers, but it’s okay with doing so. Maybe even happy to. How else do you chronicle a place as sprawling and imposing as Harvard? I thought that my first semester here would be a grand exercise in deciphering how much of the book is true of Harvard and how much isn’t, but I’m less concerned with that now. Between the factual and the fictional there is a distance, and that’s where I’ve found myself — between the land of my imagination and of my own experience of the place. Zadie gave me somewhere to begin, and I’m so grateful she did.
“A university is among the precious things that can be destroyed,” wrote Elaine Scarry in “On Beauty and Being Just,” a 1999 book of philosophy that was the inspiration for Zadie’s title. Reading “On Beauty” in 2022 is a reminder that universities are as virtuous and as enduring as the society — inside and outside — that holds them up. I’ve been reminded of that too, as I walk around and begin to locate myself here: for every right-wing frenzy that puts a target on this place, I’ve seen people around me refusing to be pulled away from their moral centres, blending their values with reason in defense of the vulnerable — beginning with affirmative action but stretching much further. That is a community I’m proud to be a part of, and that, dare I say, I deserve to be.
Sections
4:18 a.m. June 24, 2022. A ringing sound in the darkness of my dorm. I fumble for my phone to check who’s calling, squinting as the bright light blinds me and illuminates my shadowy room. My window is open, and while I can’t see it at the moment without my glasses, there are more lights dotting the sky than usual. I answer the call; I’ve been expecting it.
Ten years earlier, I stared up at the night sky, deep in the woods of New Hampshire. Crickets chirped above the hiss of burning logs. My dad pointed out a shooting star, and I watched its falling fire, a crackle of energy arcing high above the mountains. I had never seen a shooting star before. I didn’t think they were even real, just a fanciful idea conjured up by the dreamers in books and movies. But there it was, a twinkle so fast you could almost miss it, right before my eyes.
There is a scene in the “Mary Poppins” novel where Mary meets Maia, a member of the Pleiades “Seven Sisters” star cluster personified as a slender, sylphic girl. I imagined her bounding gracefully across the sky, sparks of light bursting from her feet and sprinkling stars across the stillness.
Curiosity and skepticism for what really dwells in space are what initially captured my interest in astrophysics, and I decided then, at nine years old, that I could imagine a life studying astronomy. I went through my teen years with this thought echoing in the back of my mind as I threw myself into a million different extracurriculars and hobbies. I went out on a limb for college, applying as an Astrophysics major despite having very little real experience.
4:21 a.m. I hang up, still so tired that everything feels dreamlike and hazy around the edges. I’m grateful my friend called to wake me up. He had assured me over the phone that this wasn’t something I should miss. I gently shake my roommate awake and ask her if she wants to come. She mumbles a sleepy no and rolls back asleep, so I take her ID — with its swipe to the Loomis-Michael Observatory — and pull on my shoes, still yawning.
I step outside, and the moon looms impossibly large and bright between the inky silhouettes of buildings, the darkness of sky around its crescent arc faintly aglow. I step towards the road, craning my neck over the shingled roofs to see the other planets. I walk two steps, and Mars appears. Two more, and I can see Jupiter and Venus. Five in total, although I’ll need a better view if I want to see them all.
My first real taste of astrophysics was the summer after freshman year when I began to conduct research at the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, or CfA. I fell into a comfortable rhythm, running new code and abusing the free coffee machine on the first floor every day. All the students were invited to a weekly research colloquium, where a researcher would present their topic of interest. Every week, I’d wander from my office on the third floor through the CfA’s maze of rooms full of space posters and sunlit corridors, grab an egg salad sandwich, and sit in the Phillips Auditorium to learn about exoplanet atmospheres or the shape of the galactic stellar halo for an hour.
One day, as I looked over the next week’s selection of talks, I glanced at a graduate student’s dissertation talk on detecting extrasolar planets. At that moment, it hit me what I was seeing: her life’s work presented in a 40-minute lecture. How had I taken for granted the ability to engage with pure science at the highest level, to witness the culmination of years of cutting-edge research and advanced study of the cosmos?
4:29 a.m. I scooter through a silent Square to the Observatory. The sky is beginning to lighten ever so slightly. The Yard exists in perpetual twilight in the hours of early dawn, and right now everything feels dim and dewy and not quite real. In the quiet morning, I feel alone but not lonely, beneath the moon and stars and planets. 
My field feels a solitary pursuit at times: a lone astronomer in the night, studying things incomprehensibly vast and old and beyond our present reach. The light we receive from Earth is thousands, millions, or billions of years old, illuminating the sky from distant stars and galaxies sometimes long gone. 
The first time I used the Loomis-Michael Observatory was on a clear February night last semester. I planned a picnic with my friends in Astrophysics. I bought cheese and crackers and figs and brought them up to the observatory. We cracked open the great gray dome, its shaft slowly grumbling open to reveal a patch of night, dotted with a singular star, defiant against the light pollution of Boston. We took turns peering through the eyepiece at that blur of light, wavy and distorted from atmospheric interference.
Finally getting to see the stars I had studied all semester felt like an apotheosis. I thought about my summer spent walking with old friends and new to the weekly colloquium talks, sharing an office with other astronomers, brainstorming ideas when our code failed, or doodling aliens on Post-It notes. It is not so solitary after all.
4:31 a.m. I walk through the Science Center, empty but for a lone security guard. I take the elevator up to the eighth floor and climb the stairs up to the observatory. I swipe into the chamber, greeted by painted constellations that swirl across cinder blocks. Dawn is almost here, and I have to squint to see the planets, but there they are, a glittering starry belt across the brightening sky. 
All of this is astrophysics to me – a twinkle of a shooting star, a compiling of code, a brilliant colloquium, a picnic with friends. I feel what it is to be immersed in it all, and I stare at the stars until it is too light to see anything at all before I scooter back to my dorm and fall back into my bed and into sleep.
— Staff writer Arielle C. Frommer can be reached at arielle.frommer@thecrimson.com.
Sections
The tumultuous contract negotiations between Harvard University and its graduate student union in 2021 culminated in one strike and the threat of a second. Though the union conceded its headline demand for third-party Title IX arbitration before  the contract was ratified in November, it won pay increases and a legal fund for harassment claims in return. But in addition to these contentious changes, the contract made a historic step: Harvard became the first Ivy League university to have a formal anti-caste discrimination policy.
Harvard is part of a growing list of universities that include caste as a category in their nondiscrimination policies, with one of the latest being the California State University system. Among some Indian and Indian-American activists, the concession by Harvard is a symbolic win in a growing anti-casteism movement in higher education — and perhaps a harbinger of more to come.
The target of their activism is caste oppression, a system of social hierarchy based on hereditary castes. The term is most often associated with the Hindu caste system in India, which consists of four main, religiously-derived caste groups — Brahmins, the highest caste group, followed by Kshatriyas, Vaishyas, and Shudras.
Located beneath this four-tiered caste hierarchy are Dalits, historically referred to as “untouchables,” and Adivasis, indigenous people in South Asia. Both groups bear the brunt of religious, legal, and social caste oppression in India. By some accounts, there are approximately 200 million Dalits in India, about 15 percent of the country’s total population.
Kartikeya Bhatotia, a Harvard Kennedy School student who identifies as part of the Bahujan group — an umbrella term for Dalits and other marginalized castes — says that caste “pervades every sociological system” in India.
“The way we live, the way people interact with each other, the way they marry, intergenerational wealth, who does what work, the division of labor, is highly, highly correlated with what caste you’re from,” Bhatotia says.
Suraj M. Yengde, an associate at the South Asian Institute at Harvard who wrote the 2019 book “Caste Matters,” says his status as a Dalit followed him to Harvard. He recalls feeling excluded by friends of friends, being “yelled at” by students, or having his research or academic pedigree questioned — experiences he says were tinted with casteism.
“Caste comes across as a denigration, as an identity of shame, as something that provokes violence,” Yengde says.
Kanishka Elupula, a Dalit Ph.D. candidate in Anthropology who researches caste, says that while he has not experienced specific instances of overt casteism in America, he has heard people betray their casteist sentiments when discussing the policy of “reservation” — an Indian system of legal quotas to increase access to public sector employment and public education for marginalized castes.
“There you can see the anger and hatred that people have for lower-caste communities, or at least for the policies of reservation,” he says. “When you support these, you can feel the hostility.”
Aparna Gopalan, a Ph.D. candidate in Anthropology and a member of the Harvard Graduate Students Union-United Automobile Workers’ bargaining committee in 2021, says that at the beginning of contract negotiations, committee members were brainstorming new categories to include in the contract’s non-discrimination protections. She proposed caste.
Gopalan, who describes herself as coming from a “privileged caste,” says she was aware of the “danger of reproducing something” like a savior complex, and she stresses the importance of “taking the lead” from experienced activists in the space.
Nevertheless, she says she was “determined to not be silent” and that her role as the only South Asian person on the bargaining committee positioned her to make a difference in the union context.
“I haven’t ever been the person who primarily works on caste, and I don’t need to claim that for myself either, but just to not be silent seems important,” Gopalan says.
Yengde says he only learned of the caste protection after the contract had been ratified. He says he felt he had been excluded from the HGSU’s advocacy efforts, describing the moment as “a little bit heartbreaking.”
“I was never in the loop,” he says.
At the time, in a post on his Instagram story, he asked “How can you exclude the one proud Ambedkarite on campus who’s been in the corridors for longer and has been actively lobbying for caste-sensitive policies?” referring to followers of Bhimrao Ramji Ambedkar, the Indian civil rights leader who pioneered anti-caste activism in the 20th century.
Gopalan says the union did not systematically reach out to Dalit activists and students or specifically exclude any, but rather relied on connections from members of the bargaining committee who could speak to the various issues on the negotiating table.
“There’s an open call for faculty to just step in and help on all sorts of issues,” she says. “I’m really glad that Dr. Yengde is willing to help, and we invite his help.”
Despite feelings excluded, Yengde says he is happy the protection was included in the contract, and he calls on Harvard to implement further “proactive policies” to fund research into caste, increase scholarships and outreach to Dalit potential applicants, and hire Dalit faculty.
Awareness around caste has grown in America, especially after the publication of Isabel Wilkerson’s 2020 bestselling book “Caste: The Origins of Our Discontents,” which compared American racism to India’s caste system and social hierarchy in Nazi Germany. But owing largely to a small proportion of South Asians and Indians in America — most of whom come from privileged castes — research and reporting about the experiences of caste-oppressed Indians in America has only begun to emerge.
According to a 2018 report by Equality Labs, an anti-caste oppression advocacy group, more than 40 percent of Dalits in America have reported experiencing caste discrimination in educational settings, and two-thirds reported the same in workplaces. Equality Labs describes the report as the “first comprehensive survey that details the extent to which Caste has embedded itself in the United States.”
Pranay Patil, a Dalit student at the Harvard Kennedy School, says that he has not personally experienced caste hostility at Harvard, but that he was surprised by the lack of dialogue about caste among Indian students at the University, which he attributes to the low population of marginalized-caste students.
He says the contract’s nondiscrimination clause will be a “very solid tool in order to really attract students from marginalized backgrounds.”
Bhatotia says that the nondiscrimination protection was a “welcome move,” but only a first step.
“Representation matters, and until we have some institutional checks in place that ensure there’s a commitment to justice, this will not be enough,” Bhatotia says.
For his part, Bhatotia serves as a co-chair of the Casteless Caucus, created late last spring, which he says will mobilize to promote “caste sensitivity” among faculty and admissions officers at the Kennedy School.
He also highlighted the work of Equity in Policy Education, a group started at HKS to increase representation for people from marginalized castes and prepare them for public policy graduate programs.
“We need to move into other universities as well,” Bhatotia says. “We need this awareness to be omnipresent across all institutions of learning.”
Correction: October 14, 2022:
A previous version of this article misstated Suraj M. Yengde's current title at Harvard. He is an associate at the school's South Asian Institute.
— Staff writer Elias J. Schisgall can be reached at elias.schisgall@thecrimson.com.
Sections
Hidden around a corner just beyond the Kendall T stop lies a string of lights, food trucks, and a gentle mill of people. A mist hangs above — colors come and go, like clouds rolling before a storm. First swirling green, now overlaid with pink, then rapidly moving toward a vanishing point.
Welcome to “Borealis,” the art installation that served as the centerpiece of this year’s Cambridge Science Festival — a weeklong celebration of science, technology, engineering, art, and math.
Designed by self-described “artivist” Dan Acher, Borealis “brings the experience of the Northern Lights to cities the world over,” according to its website. The installation, which was on exhibit from Oct. 6-9, features light beams projecting onto mist, creating an aurora-like effect, while a musical composition by Guillaume Desbois establishes a soothing atmosphere. Acher designed Borealis to create spaces for people to connect, to explore issues of climate change, and to connect art with technology. Borealis has traveled to 12 countries since its debut in 2016.
Cambridge Science Festival director Brooke W. Ciardelli had been following Acher’s work, and Borealis in particular, for some time. When she began planning this year’s festival, she immediately thought of bringing the installation to Cambridge for its first stint in the United States.
She notes that Borealis departs from the festival’s past programming. “Another goal of the festival this year was to try to situate the programming more directly at the intersection of science and art. I would say in past festivals, it tackled science,” she says. “We wanted to make the art side of the equation more robust.”
Ciardelli also felt this year’s festival needed something to pull the community together after the isolation brought on by the Covid-19 pandemic. She and her team wanted an installation “that was healing and in some way that was larger than life, and that [was] filled with a sense of wonder,” she says.
For Ciardelli, hosting an exhibition like Borealis is more important now than ever. “Such deep-seated fear [is] manifesting itself in hate and division, and it’s a tough time for us as human beings right now,” she says. “We just need to find the pure wonder of humanity, the environment, and community.”
The wonder is evident on faces throughout the soft hum of people at the festival. College students sit on parking blocks or the curb; children lay on the concrete; couples wander slowly with arms around each other. The accompanying music is meditative — the sort of sounds you hear at the end of a yoga class.
“Initially I was underwhelmed,” says Tyagaraja Ramaswamy, a Cambridge resident, and his feelings were echoed by other visitors. Borealis does not seem to wow visitors by its shock value, but instead soothes those who linger. When asked to describe their impressions, friends Anna Stringham and Emma Garner respond in unison: “very zen.”
While large events like festivals tend to be action-oriented, Ciardelli hopes that Borealis encourages visitors to “simply be and exist in a common space with people.” When asked if she has a takeaway, Borealis visitor Grace Liu says that the light and the swirls remind us to “grasp what you can have right away, because it never is there forever.” Her friend Violet McCauluy, however, pauses for a moment before asking, “Should I take away something?”
Borealis simply asks viewers to focus on the present moment. The art installation juxtaposes a moment of peace amidst a bustling city, a pseudo-natural phenomenon fenced in by half-lit high rises. When watching and listening to Borealis, there’s no other agenda. No errands to run, no work to do. It’s simply about connecting with the here and now — the people with you, the place where you are.
Perhaps, as McCauluy implies, there’s nothing specific to take away from Borealis. Just a sense of wonder.
Sections
When I was applying to Harvard, I thought deeply about what I would write in my essay. Of all of the pieces of my life, which of them seemed “Harvard-worthy”? How much of myself was I willing to share? I received plenty of advice from teachers and friends during the writing process — most of it unsolicited, and almost all of which said the same thing: to talk about my different identities, but to ultimately focus on the future; to showcase myself as someone who was striving ahead, not looking back. I ended up writing my Common App personal statement on movement: how the various states and homes I’ve lived in have impacted me. In addition to writing about moving forward, I did end up writing about looking back. And as I look back on that essay now, I look into a past farther in time than just my childhood — a past larger than just myself.
Histories are complicated, and especially at a place like Harvard, they are not spotless. Harvard’s role in colonialism ranges from direct colonization in Southeast Asia — where Harvard administrators and affiliates helped establish a colonial education system based on imperialism — to indirect colonialism through scholarship, like Louis Agassiz’s work into polygenism that aimed to separate, segregate, and rank different races, which furthered colonialist rationale.
My admission to Harvard follows painful histories like these — histories that directly impacted my ancestors and that I must now grapple with as a student here. As the daughter of Indian immigrants, I know the pain that immigration can cause — longing to see relatives in real life whom I only hear through crackly WhatsApp calls, wishing for the tangible support of having family close by, eating quickly deflating puffed puris in an Indian restaurant which remind me of people and places far away. At moments like these, I can’t help but wonder how colonialism in India, both direct and trickled-down, impacted my ancestors and extended family in ways that may have eventually contributed to my parents’ immigrating to America. The opportunities stripped from a homeland once so full of promise, the desire to achieve the American Dream as it was packaged and advertised around the world — these are likely a large part of why I am here in America, here at Harvard.
Prior to receiving my acceptance letter, I wasn’t aware of these complicated histories. After all, it’s not like they’re front and center on the admissions brochures. But after coming to Harvard, I took classes on colonialism and its legacy that forced me to reorient myself in the larger cacophony of time, space, and history. However, the irony is not lost on me: I’m learning about colonial histories at an institution that contributed to it.
I must now contend with how the legacies I’ve inherited by attending this university intersect with those I inherited from my parents. Not to mention the pressure to find the “right way” to talk about my familial experiences, to package generational trauma in a more palatable way back to the perpetrators. How do we cope under the weights of these competing histories?
In my college admissions essay, I briefly mentioned my family’s immigration history. Looking back now, I regret that I didn’t mention it more; it’s shaped me into who I am today. On the other hand, doing so risks using my heritage as a springboard into Harvard, even as that same springboard allows me to use the considerable resources and power concentrated at Harvard to launch myself and my family into a more comfortable future. When we launch ourselves to new heights, are we actually doing so at the expense of people who lived centuries ago, whose lives were lived in the shadows of colonialism? How do I reconcile these complicated histories with the kind of future I’m aspiring toward?
With such a springboard, you must also make sure that you have enough potential energy in the first place to actually launch you to your next endeavor; the alternative is complete inertia, a standstill. And when standing at the precipice, you must make sure that these complicated and competing histories do not ultimately compress you, the weight of legacy pushing down so much that you can never build back up enough potential energy to launch you forwards. As I contend with these histories, legacy full of complication, I try to maintain a balance between downward motion and upward launch. How do I turn an ancestral history tinged with pain into a future filled with joy, a historiographic alchemy?
While writing this piece, I tried again and again to find possible answers to my questions. Yet despite so many drafts, I wasn’t able to. I think that for now, I remain a balancing act.
— Staff writer Shanivi Srikonda can be reached at shanivi.srikonda@thecrimson.com.
This is one of six essays published in FM’s 2022 “Rewriting Our Harvard Admissions Essays” series. Read the rest of the series here.
Sections
In the fall of my senior year of high school, I visited the National Memorial for Peace and Justice — a memorial for those who died from racial terror lynchings in the United States. There, I interviewed nearly a dozen visitors for my senior independent study on the remembrance of lynching, an offshoot of a research assistant project I started in sophomore year.
Walking deeper and deeper into the belly of the memorial, underneath the hundreds of hanging steel beams representing each county where lynchings had been documented, I felt a heaviness in my chest. It felt sacred. Visitors described coming to the memorial as a pilgrimage, an opportunity for people to mourn and reflect on the anti-Black violence that is at the core of our national history.
Up until that point, I had struggled to find a topic for my Common Application essay for college. On the drive back home from Montgomery, I knew what to write.
I hate that that was my first thought.
The final essay carried an overarching theme of cross-racial understanding. Though I was an Asian American researching a history that was not my own, I felt connected to the descendants of this history. Seeing the real emotional, familial, and political connection that people had to this history made me realize I wanted to do people-centered work. The work of the Equal Justice Initiative, the legal nonprofit that created the memorial, is one of the primary reasons I decided to study history in college.
In retrospect, however, my Common App essay makes me uneasy.
I was hiding a lot. The first drafts of my college applications came together only after pages and pages of freewriting — writing anything that floated across my mind without pause. I wrote about how much I hated applications. I wrote about my failure to bully my mind into doing what needed to be done. How I didn’t know if I was “interesting” enough as yet another Asian American applicant. How I didn’t know how much to write about my race. If I mentioned it, would the admissions officer — whom I always imagined as white — think I was pandering? If I didn’t mention it, would they think I hated my race?
Most of all, I wrote about how close I was to giving up. How I didn’t have any sense of self after two years of trying to make it through every day in one piece. I wrote about how much I was sick of writing about my own mental turmoil but couldn’t write about anything else. In all my freewrites, I felt that I was begging these colleges for my life.
Even after filling up a notebook and a half, I didn’t know myself at all, and I certainly couldn’t know myself in 650 words. Even if I could, the admissions officers could skim my whole existence in 30 seconds and determine that I was unfit — especially if I looked like the archetypal self-hating, mentally unwell, unproductive, burnt-out Asian kid. And it didn’t matter if I thought that archetype was a gross mischaracterization of who I was.
Writing about my research seemed like the best solution to these problems. As I completed the rest of my application, my father often told me that this essay topic would distinguish me from other Asian applicants. I now know for certain that it did; in my admissions file, both readers made note of my project.
But it wasn’t just an essay topic. The history was horrifying to research, and the photos documenting it were horrifying to see. The ramifications of lynching still live with us today. Though the memorial represents a step toward public reckoning, this history of racial violence is the foundation of our current justice system.
Inside the Common App, however, all of that was condensed into the tiny story of me and my one-day trip to this memorial. In running from my own turmoil, sometimes I feel I co-opted the historical trauma of another group of people for the sake of a college application. I didn’t do the work of funding, creating, and protecting such a memorial in the deep South; the legacies of this history were not mine to adopt. Yet, at the time, these were my genuine academic interests. I don’t know if I could have written about something else, nor do I know in retrospect how I could have revised the piece. It made me deeply uncomfortable to center myself in this history, yet the college essay practically required it — it demanded that I inflate my sense of importance while obscuring my inner life.
My teachers at the time told me I was “brave” for taking on this research topic. But was I truly the “brave” one?
— Associate Magazine Editor Meimei Xu can be reached at meimei.xu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @MeimeiXu7.
This is one of six essays published in FM’s 2022 “Rewriting Our Harvard Admissions Essays” series. Read the rest of the series here.
Sections
Twice a week, Gretchen M. Friesinger ’75 — a long-time resident of Porter Square — fills up her five-gallon buckets with water, places them in her flat wagon, and wheels them half a block to the group of street trees that she “adopted” several years ago. Through what is now known as Cambridge’s Urban Forest Friends program, Friesinger effectively assumes responsibility for the care of these local trees, providing each one with upwards of 40 gallons of water a week.
In July, the city released a series of public service announcements asking residents to assume more responsibility for the care of trees near their homes. The drought that swept Massachusetts this summer had been taking a significant toll on the health of Cambridge trees, and the city needed all hands on deck to preserve the quality of the urban forest and make sure each tree received enough water. “Even trees that were well-established were struggling,” says Friesinger, who began giving each tree under her care an additional 20 gallons each week in response to the PSA. Throughout the summer, Friesinger and other concerned residents shouldered some of the labor the city lacked the capacity to provide.
“If you’ve got a hose or a bucket and can water a street tree near you, please do!” Friesinger wrote.
Of course, she notes that this level of dedication can be taxing — especially considering that the same drought conditions harming the trees can take a toll on their human caretakers as well. “We had this work day, and it was to clean up Porter Square and also deweed the tree wells on Mass Ave,” she says. “It was 90 degrees and it was really challenging physically — so, tough on the trees and also tough on the people.”
However, a couple sweaty afternoons are more than worth it to Friesinger, who was initially inspired to help out with the trees because of the important environmental role they play in providing shade, reducing heat, and absorbing carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. She was also pleasantly surprised by how trees seemed to facilitate deeper connections between community members.
“It’s almost like the trees are invisible,” she says. “But when I’m up there watering and people stop, and we’re having a conversation at that tree, I feel we both go away having had a good conversation and a new appreciation of what it is to have trees on the street.”
But some local activists are concerned that even with bolstered community support, Cambridge still lacks the infrastructure to fully take care of its trees. According to the city’s 2019 Urban Forest Master Plan, increasing climate change-driven threats like droughts, higher winds, and more pests mean Cambridge’s urban forest could be cut by nearly a third by 2030 and by more than half by 2050. To prevent this outcome, the plan outlines several action items for restoring tree canopy and boosting the health of established trees. Chief among these goals is to plant 1,000 new trees each year.
Attempting to plant this many new trees on top of the grueling conditions of the ongoing drought and increased watering needs “definitely spread us thin” says Andrew Putnam, Cambridge’s superintendent of urban forestry and landscapes.
Putnam maintains that community participation is a crucial element of ensuring the long-term sustainability of Cambridge’s urban forest, rather than an emergency outsourcing of responsibility that should ideally fall in the hands of the city government.
“Residents watering the tree adjacent to their property is the most cost-efficient, effective way to water and maintain a tree,” he says. “For the canopy to grow and mature, it will require a more engaged citizen to ensure that happens — monitoring the trees and having a dialogue with public works.”
Cambridge4Trees, a local organization focused on preserving the city’s tree canopy, collaborated with the city government to produce the PSA calling on additional community help. Members Charles D. Teague ’74 and Michael F. Nakagawa worry that the city lacks the infrastructure to care for both the existing tree canopy and the thousands of new trees being planted. “The more trees they plant, the further behind they get. They’re just pushing a rock uphill,” Teague says. “Watering by the residents is necessary, but it's not enough,” he adds. “It's a problem of scale.”
When trees go without proper care and deteriorate in health, they can become safety hazards that must be cut down — resulting in significant gaps in the tree canopy while new trees slowly fill them in. These gaps disproportionately impact low-income residents of Cambridge, such as those in the Jefferson Park Apartments, an affordable housing site slated to lose 58 trees from its canopy beginning in early November.
The proposed cuttings are a part of the Jefferson Park Federal Modernization Project, which will build 103 new units of affordable housing at Jefferson Park. The Cambridge Housing Authority heading the project determined that “many of the existing trees were found to be in poor condition or posed as dangerous safety risks” and thus ought to be cut during construction.
For James Williamson, a Jefferson Park resident, the trees’ poor condition was not the result of innocent oversight. “There’s been a history of poor maintenance and neglect at Jefferson Park, in my opinion, that has contributed to the loss of beautiful, and even majestic, trees, long before any new construction initiatives or drought conditions,” he says.
While the city plans to plant 194 new trees to replace those being cut down, trees often need 30 years or longer to develop mature canopies, according to the UFMP, meaning current Jefferson Park residents will likely never reap the benefits of the added tree canopy.
For Friesinger, Teague, and Nakagawa, curbing the loss of the existing mature trees like those in Jefferson Park Apartments represents one of the biggest gaps in the city’s implementation of its UFMP. Given the predicted increase in heat and droughts that this summer foreshadowed, it may be especially difficult for younger, newly planted trees to grow in the coming years, further highlighting the urgency of maintaining the health of established tree canopy.

The city does recognize the disparities in tree coverage across Cambridge, particularly for communities of color or low-income communities like Jefferson Park. The UFMP specifies that equity is one of the city’s core values, and that it is working toward an “urban canopy that provides benefits to all its citizens,” but much work is yet to be done to achieve this goal. As Williamson says, “All of our trees — and our tree canopy — deserve equal protection.”
Sections
“Spongebob Squarepants. Season Two, Episode Twenty-Five: Wormy.”
That was the first line in the essay I used to apply to every college on my list. What followed was an uplifting tale of discovery, self-assuredness and triumph over the racism I endured at my high school, told through an adorable anecdote about overcoming a fear of butterflies (that I never actually had). The girl who wrote it was scared, lost, and confused. I’d like to use this essay as my chance to tell the truth.
I grew up in a predominantly white, conservative suburb of Cincinnati, Ohio. My public high school was well-resourced and the largest in the state, with almost 3,500 students — but only 4 percent of them were Black. During my freshman year of high school, a Snapchat video of a white boy spewing racial slurs to a Black classmate went viral in my town. During my sophomore year, I overheard my teammate on the track team tell her friends that Black people were only good at the sport because they had so much practice running from the cops.
During my junior year, I began working on creating an Office for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion for my school district. At 16 years old, I found myself bustling from panel to panel, speaking with teachers across the state about “inclusive excellence,” the “power of diversity,” and every other buzzword and catchy phrase I could think of. I wrote letters, formed teams, and taught an “anti-bias” curriculum to hundreds of people. In the beginning, I couldn’t be more proud of the work I was doing.
By senior year, after I’d discovered more radical ideas through Black visionaries like Angela Davis, my perception of the world had dramatically shifted. I realized that inclusion should be the bare minimum, but I was preaching like it’d be the final step. Diversity alone is not, and never will be, justice. But I was in too deep with this persona I’d created. One step out of line, one bold idea not palatable for white audiences, and it could all be taken away. Quite frankly, I didn’t care about being my district’s poster child anymore. But now there were younger Black girls looking up to me, a whole community — small but mighty — expecting me to represent them. Who would do it for them, if not me?
The new version of myself I’d created no longer belonged to me. The feeling was deeply unsettling, and it sparked a long period of constant compartmentalization and dissociation that I’m still working through. I was also completely exhausted, drained from reliving my racial traumas over and over to an audience. The only thing that kept me going was the hope of making my school better for some other Black girl. I told myself that the loneliness, the pain, the inner turmoil — it’d all be worth it for her.
When it came time to write my college application essays, I knew what admissions officers did and did not want to hear about. They did not want to hear about the time you sprained your knee before a big soccer game. They did want to hear about the death of a loved one — but only if it was sudden, tragic, and character-building. They did not want to hear about your babysitting job — unless you worked to support your family, who were also very poor and sad but, in the end, resilient.
I understood pretty clearly that the situation I’d be expected to write about in my application would be one that still has lasting damage today — the classic “Black at a PWI” experience, a story so common that when I initially read this essay prompt, I brushed it off. Sure, I turned my racial trauma into a cute essay about Spongebob and butterflies … but hadn’t everyone? There are so many other personal hardships that have been exploited for the sake of getting into Harvard. At the end of the day, I’m just another Black kid from the suburbs.
But when I stopped to think about it, I realized just how much the very essence of a college essay compels your barely 18-year-old self to wrap up one of your deepest struggles into a neat bow and serve it on a platter to a panel of judgemental strangers. It asks you to recall a time you overcame something, but not to focus too much on that “something.” It forces you to lie in order to tie up loose ends that are still fraying years later.
For me, it meant spinning a time that ripped me from my true self into a bold declaration of growth and self-discovery. I reduced an entire lifetime of grappling with my Black womanhood into a single sentence that also served as a chrysalis metaphor. I spoke of insecurity in the past tense, like I wasn’t still tone-policing myself in every space I inhabited — including the Google Doc where I drafted and re-drafted my essay countless times. I wanted Harvard to want me so badly, I never thought about what I wanted for myself.
After arriving on campus, I realized pretty quickly that Harvard actually needs us much more than we need it. Specifically, Harvard needs me. But not in the way I felt a sense of responsibility for the young Black girls in my community. Someone else can be the first or only one to look like me in various places on campus — I am perfectly content being the second, fifth, tenth, or preferably hundredth.
You won’t see me speaking about whatever “inclusive excellence” is ever again. In fact, Harvard needs me precisely because I refuse to do so. With the time, energy, and self-assuredness I’ve gained by protecting myself from any more exploitative emotional labor, I am able to do the real work I care about. I am able to create art and build communities, heal, and become the person I truly want to be.
But in true college-essay fashion, our journey wouldn’t be complete without a full-circle moment. So as I reminisce on my application and its unabashed declaration of my fully transformed butterfly-ness, I can confidently say I am still a caterpillar — happily munching on leaves and napping on branches as I slowly (and messily) reach one of my many new forms. And I’m not really in a rush to get there.
— Magazine writer Mariah M. Norman can be reached at mariah.norman@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @mariahnorman03.
This is one of six essays published in FM’s 2022 “Rewriting Our Harvard Admissions Essays” series. Read the rest of the series here.
Sections
I applied to college in the fall of 2017. From my vantage point at the time, this was a period overwhelmed by jealousy, desperation, and anxiety; I wanted to get into a top school, and all my classmates wanted to do the same. We felt a constant pressure to one-up each other, perhaps because of the opportunities those schools offered — but, given that we all lived in an upscale suburb of New York City and didn’t really need any more opportunity than we already had, more likely because it would prove that we were worth something. I now look back on this time with mild irritation. I wish I would have calmed down. I wish we all would have calmed down.
In September, all we could talk about were essays. Most of us were writing our personal statement for the Common App so that we could apply early to our top choices in October, a process that I can only describe as too personal. Several of my friends wrote about their eating disorders. Others wrote about feeling ostracized because of their ethnicity or sexuality. One wrote about almost becoming a parapalegic, and another wrote about the death of his father, which had only occurred a few weeks before. It was a sudden, shocking death, which he seemed to sublimate far better (or, depending on your perspective, more poorly) than I could have; when I asked him how he was, he told me that at least now he had something to write about for college. The basic strategy, I learned, was to highlight the worst parts of your life to distract admissions officers from the reality that, on the whole, you are very privileged.
I wrote about being mixed-race. This takes up very little of my mental energy today; I eventually realized that in the United States, there is hardly any practical difference between being half-black or fully black. It was more important to me then. I wrote about my hair, which I’d straightened for years out of a combination of ignorance and race-shame but had recently decided to let revert to its natural state. The basic arc of the essay was thus: I once hated myself, or was made to hate myself, because of my racial identity. I felt out of place. Wearing my hair curly was symbolic of my personal growth; I had overcome that self-hatred.
I’ve been trying to figure out why I landed on this topic. I vaguely remember starting multiple different essays; I think I tried to write about my love of outer space, and maybe about my relationship to the outdoors. Though I did think a lot about race at the time, it didn’t really consume me, and I didn’t feel that my race had significantly impacted my own life. This topic was among the more dramatic ones I could have chosen, even if I wasn’t sure it reflected my own thoughts and feelings, which was perhaps the point. I wanted to appeal to admissions officers in the way that my classmates were — by writing about our trauma — without really exposing myself.
Essentially, I understood on some level that the level of meaning in this particular essay topic would appear greater to the white people who read it than it would to me. By that point in my life, I’d already observed how the white people I knew had reacted to “The Help,” a book I found trite, or “Precious,” a movie I found grotesque. A desire to understand racism, I knew (but probably couldn’t have verbalized at the time), masked a powerful appetite for entertainment derived from suffering. This is an old impulse, of course. It is always betrayed by its affinity for made-up scenarios which have nothing to do with the reality of black America.
Looking back at the actual essay, none of the content was particularly outrageous — my instinct, which I think I was right about, was really about how it would be interpreted. I wrote about two girls in my year — one black, one white — having an argument about what my race was. I wrote about a crossing guard in my town who told my (white) grandfather that my parents shouldn’t be together. Everything that I wrote was true, and it did impact my self-esteem. I genuinely did come to the moment of self-acceptance I wrote about. What I didn’t say, and what white admissions officers and guidance counselors seemed to miss, was that choosing to write about racism in my Common App essay didn’t mean that the experience of racism had defined my entire life.
I am a very privileged person, but oddly enough, this essay seemed to conceal that fact from others. I showed it to my guidance counselor and she cried. I sat across from her, a little uncomfortable, trying to figure out what exactly about what I’d written was so sad. “It’s so horrible,” she said, fighting back tears, “that people like you have to go through this.”
A few weeks later, I was talking to an admissions official at an elite liberal arts college, which had specifically invited me to apply for a merit scholarship intended to increase racial diversity in STEM. He was asking me questions which, I realized in retrospect, were going to go in my admissions file. “Do you think you’ve overcome anything particularly significant?” he asked, raising his eyebrows a little. I stared back at him, trying to figure out what he wanted me to say. “Um,” I said. “When I was younger my mom got sick for a year.” He seemed unsatisfied; I later suspected that he wanted me to tell him a story about poverty or oppression, which I couldn’t do because I’d never really been poor or oppressed.
What both of these instances have in common, I think, was a willingness to believe that my life had been particularly hard because of my race. This is a trap I probably could have fallen into — my classmates who were writing about unfortunate things certainly seemed to accept, at least for the duration of admissions season, their own victimhood — if I didn’t actually know people whose lives had genuinely been hard. A large part of my family were sharecroppers into the 1970s. Some of my relatives have been lynched; others have been shot. Of course, bad things have happened to me. It’s just that being born black was not one of them.
I probably shouldn’t complain too much; I got into Harvard. It’s possible, too, that my interpretation of the reactions to my essay is too cynical, that it underestimates the ability of those reading my essay to understand race (though I somewhat doubt this). Perhaps more disturbingly, it’s also true that I was also at least somewhat aware of this dynamic as I started to write my admissions essay. Perhaps I was willing to capitalize on it.
I don’t particularly regret writing my essay, though I do think it’s telling about some habits that I maintain to this day. I wasn’t a writer then, but I am now. Some writers write about themselves; others deliberately avoid it. I am one of the former. I write constantly, almost obsessively, about myself, usually about myself at my worst moments. When something bad happens to me, my first thought is, shit. My second thought is, this will make a great story. Call it a commitment to verité. Except, actually, maybe it’s not — everything I write, though literally true, is filtered and manipulated based on the ends I’d like it to serve. I might trauma plot, but I never trauma dump. I have mixed feelings about this crafted adherence to reality. To be black and write about your race is always to risk exploiting yourself. But if you’re not truly writing about yourself, do you gain some power back? I don’t really know.
A few months ago, my mother called me up and asked me to request my admissions file. I told her I didn’t want to; whoever those admissions officers are talking about isn’t actually me.
— Associate Magazine Editor Rebecca E. J. Cadenhead can be reached at rebecca.cadenhead@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @ibuprofenaddict.
This is one of six essays published in FM’s 2022 “Rewriting Our Harvard Admissions Essays” series. Read the rest of the series here.
Sections
I doubt I’ve ever made my father happier than when I texted him, in the throes of frugal-college-student hunger, to ask him to mail me some tinned sardines. I was living on campus for a summer research program, with a perfect view of the Charles River and an incredibly meager dining plan, and I was looking for an easy lunch that wouldn’t immediately spoil in my sweltering dorm room. He sent me back a simple ❤️.
Sardines have loomed large in my family for the last couple of years, starting in the early hoarding days of the pandemic. I remember my father sitting at the kitchen table between Zoom meetings, either hunched over a plate of sardines spread on seedy crackers, or eating them straight out of the tin with hot sauce. I think sardines reminded him of his English mother’s wartime childhood rations, conjuring a European struggle-chic aesthetic. I, silly young thing that I was, thought he was disgusting for eating something so … nonperishable. Something so stinky. My family agreed with me — especially my mother, who couldn’t handle the smell of the empty tin in the garbage bin or the sardine remnants on his breath.
I can’t remember exactly when I tried my first tin of sardines, but I do remember how I had them: between Zoom classes, on near-blackened toast, with a smear of mustard, thinly sliced red onions, and flaky sea salt. A spicy stinky oily umami masterpiece. I apologized to my father for calling him gross.
From then on, sardines became my comfort food. They were never the first thing I reached for at home, but I liked knowing that they were always there for me, should I fail to find a more conventional snack — my father always kept that particular shelf well-stocked. I tried my dad’s other favorites — mackerel and tuna — but no other fish piqued my interest quite as much.
Although I eventually came to revere sardines, I never would have guessed that the tiny fish would become a personality trait. I never thought that I would repeat the words hot girls eat canned fish like a mantra, fitting it into every conversation, mumbling it in my sleep. But from the moment I found myself opening my first 18-pack of Chicken-of-the-Sea Sardines in olive oil of the summer, bringing an embarrassing Covid-era snack into my precariously cool college life, I was doomed.
This past summer, I ate sardines for lunch every day. I’d spend each morning in the air-conditioned haven of the Smith Campus Center writing about bubonic plague. When the clock struck 1 p.m., I’d take my lunch break on the sunny deck, crack open a tin, and eat the fish with grainy dijon and sourdough. It was a sensory experience — olive oil seeping through the holes of the bread and down my wrists — that made me feel like a mysterious, independent, hot girl. Almost immediately, I began to spread the sardine gospel, telling everyone how well I was eating for such little money. And how they never go bad, either!
Unbeknownst to me at the time, my love story with sardines coincided almost perfectly with the Tinned Fish Renaissance. The hors-d’oeuvre-ification of tinned fish has taken TikTok by storm, appearing on charcuterie boards, lists of date night ideas, and salads. Videos like the ones from user @alihooke turn tinned fish into the essence of luxury, with ASMR-like clips of gorgeously packaged mussels and tuna alongside farmers’ market veggies and natural wines. Sardines are also the perfect college student lunch. Although brands like Fishwife have scaled up the glamor of tinned fish, most options remain incredibly cheap for the amount of nutrients they deliver — my go-to costs just over $1 per can.
Sardines are a magical fish, but we’ve known this for millenia. Some sources trace their name back to Sardinia, a Mediterranean island where they were abundant. When canning technology was developed in the early 1800s, sardines became cheap and accessible around the world.
Sardines have also had a distinct impact on world culture. The phrase “packed like sardines” has been dated to the mid-19th century, and the game Sardines (essentially the opposite of hide-and-seek) has been around since 1924. Sardines are also some of the healthiest fish around, loaded with proteins, minerals, vitamins, and one of the highest concentrations of omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids of any commonly eaten fish.
So why the stigma? Perhaps it’s because sardines seem like a food that’s designed to outlive you. The tins don’t expire for years, so cracking one open means you must have exhausted all your other options. If you eat them without adding any other flavoring (or, God forbid, buy them in water), the sheer fishiness of them can be overwhelming. And do I even need to mention the smell?
Yes, sardines can be gross — but that’s only if you don’t know what to do with them. By now, I’ve made every mistake in the book. I’ve bought the wrong kind — for some reason, Trader Joe’s sardines are needlessly massive, and being forced to hear yourself crunching their spines in your teeth is just wrong. I’ve eaten them plain — naked sardines scream out for mustard, hot sauce, or anything sharp, spicy, or crunchy. I’ve disposed of them improperly — a freshly opened sardine tin is fine, if slightly pungent, but letting the fishy oils rot in a garbage bin too close to you is dangerous. I once absentmindedly threw out a tin in my shared hallway bathroom, and the next day the entire floor smelled like the depths of a severe yeast infection. Lesson learned: tins straight to the garbage room.
Once you get into the sardine groove, though, it’s hard to go back. There’s nothing like the smooth metallic pop of an opening tin. The fireworks of healthy fats in the very first bite. These oily fish fill my dreams. Despite their minor faults, I have never before fallen so hard for a food. Sardines were the highlight of my summer. Sardines made me happy like no other food could. Sardines were there for me when no one else was.
Sections
In my senior year of high school, the Common Application demanded that I craft an elevator pitch to sell my future. What values do you stand for? What will you bring to our school? Why should we take you and not the 40,000 other people applying here? At the time, I had no conscious reason behind anything I did; my motivations were often secrets even to myself. Nonetheless, the application essay required me to formulate a compelling narrative that packaged 17 chaotic years of my life into just a few tidy paragraphs.
So I crafted my essay around what I felt would be the easiest story for an admissions officer to understand: my ethnicity. The gist was that other people bullied me in middle school because I was Chinese, so I began repeating the same racist jokes in order to fit in. Once I entered high school, I embarked on a journey of self-discovery and found out I could be popular by not only refusing to reinforce Asian stereotypes but by participating in extracurriculars that deliberately subverted them — such as the notoriously cool activity of debate. I concluded that I could do whatever I wanted in life, without my ethnicity defining me, and all was well.
Re-reading it five years later, I cringe.
***
My “Asian-ness” wasn’t really a concept that I was aware of until my middle school years, when classmates asked me if I could see with my eyes “barely open.” Suddenly, my entire identity was devalued into a single punchline.
I literally cannot remember this happening. I’ve certainly experienced my fair share of microaggressions over the years, but there was no singular moment of reckoning when I realized that I was not, as I had assumed for my entire life, white. My essay tutors had told me to “show and not tell,” because simply making reference to my feelings of not-belonging meant that they could be disputed. I was also advised to “amplify the stakes” — to supplant everyday, incremental change with dramatic, transformative moments. Hence my epiphany.
I very much made it clear that I was a “cool Asian” who made fun of his own heritage. I cracked jokes that I knew would receive laughter: my natural ease at math, my dexterity with chopsticks, and my affinity for computers.
As I crafted my essay, I was acutely aware that many other Asian American students would be applying to similarly selective universities. I felt that I had to differentiate myself by sharing my journey of growing comfortable with my identity through my use of humor, which I saw as a unique angle. Looking back, I have no idea why I chose these examples to demonstrate my forced attempt to assimilate. They obscure the more subtle ways in which I tried to alter my identity — my trying to rid myself of my spiky hair, the undercurrents of tension with my parents, and my tendency to gravitate toward the popular white kids.
Finally, I didn’t feel the need to make lowbrow jokes about my identity anymore and decided to put my comedic rhetorical skills to better use by exploring the art of public speaking. The transition wasn’t difficult at all.
While the limitations of a college essay allow for dramatic segues, the transition was, in reality, not that dramatic — but it was incredibly difficult. I struggled for years to convince myself that my opinions were worth verbalizing and that public speaking was worth my time. To this day, I’m still unlearning previously harmful behaviors and gaining a deeper understanding of my identity.
Instead of being uncomfortable with my identity as an Asian-American, I quickly realized that my other talents and aspirations could define me more than the color of my skin.
I hate that my essay somehow concluded with “yay, colorblindness!” Although my mentors throughout high school told me that their identity was inseparable from how others viewed them, my essay ignored this central tenet of their advice. The interests that I’d thought were subverting stereotypes actually came from my internalized racism; that is, I felt that I had to do the most “un-Asian” things to be comfortable in my own skin — and appeal to admissions officers.
***
I’ve never shown this essay to my immigrant parents.
I was determined to keep it a secret from them, perhaps out of fear of criticism, perhaps because I suspected they would post it all over WeChat. But five years later, I now know the primary reason why I hid it: shame. In an attempt to raise the stakes of my essay, I portrayed my struggles with identity — although real — as an all-encompassing aspect of my personhood. Similarly, the essay’s neat and satisfactory resolution demonstrated my growth to the fullest extent possible but hid the questions of belonging I continued to deal with on a daily basis. Reality lies somewhere between the poles of intense conflict and peaceful denouement.
***
Early last fall, I made the decision to request a copy of my admissions file. Among the curt shorthand markings and numerical ratings, one comment stood out to me: my personal essay was thoughtful, and above all, honest.
On some level, I was proud that my essay had fulfilled its original intent: someone whose job it was to debunk nonsensical narratives had allowed my story to filter through. I had been marked as “honest.” But this comment has grown ever more unsettling to me in the year since. College admissions for selective institutions have no longer become a competition of test grades or grade point averages, but a race to the bottom to demonstrate prodigious authenticity.
Candidates must argue that their lived experiences are unique. For students of marginalized backgrounds, the college admissions essay poses racial equity as a possible individual accomplishment to write about. The questions to answer become: What did you learn from your oppression, and how has that built character? Can you write about it eloquently?
The system that was initially designed to allow college applicants who have been historically overlooked to share their experiences has become a system that rewards self-marketing and hyperbole. And in my own quest to craft an honest narrative that would buy me admission, I fell for it hook, line, and sinker.
— Magazine writer Andy Z. Wang can be reached at andy.wang@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @byAZWang.
This is one of six essays published in FM’s 2022 “Rewriting Our Harvard Admissions Essays” series. Read the rest of the series here.
Sections
In August 2020, the end of the summer before my senior year, I laid sprawled out on my bed next to an empty pint of ice cream, filling out a college survey for my counseling office. Most questions were routine — simply asking about my classes, leadership positions, awards. But the final one gave me pause. If you would like to share, please let us know how you have been impacted by the events of this spring and summer.
By that point, I didn’t have much energy left for filters. I embarked on a 600-word rant, replete with profanity, explaining how most every aspect of my identity had been gutted — some perfect storm of Covid, my parents’ divorce, moving twice to two new apartments, Zoom school flattening my life to two dimensions, floods of disillusionment about academia and politics, and a new and puzzling struggle to get out of bed in the morning.
My counselor’s response, an interruption of my panic-ramble a few weeks later about how I’d never find a topic for my Common App essay? “Kate. Stop. Your answer to the last question on the survey — that was it.”
I was shocked, and more than a little intrigued. What I’d intended as an outpouring of vulnerability, she’d seen as an ability to overcome adversity. I turned the rant into an essay about having my family and identity upended and finding solace in volunteer work at a food pantry. I closed with my revelation that “the most beautiful parts of my life will be contained in rebuilding” and submitted the essay to Harvard.
It has since become clear that my survey response wasn’t me trying to draft my college essay; it was a cry for help. If I’d told Harvard the full story, my essay might have ended something like this: I have taken to lying on my back on the kitchen floor at 2 a.m. I habitually sit on the floor of the shower to figure out if or how water mixes with air. I feel like the world is falling apart around me. Thank you for your consideration.
I was dealing with two serious mental illnesses that I wouldn’t acknowledge or seek treatment for until nearly a year and a half later. In other words, the adversity was far from overcome.
But our culture, and by extension the college application process, doesn’t celebrate messy middles that have not yet led to something revelatory — some triumph that gives the mess direction and purpose. My essay became the place where I could wrangle all that mess into a compelling figure: the girl who did everything. She was a biracial three-season athlete with perfect grades who ran the newspaper and got elected class president and wanted to save the world, and to top it all off her parents were getting divorced and moving during a pandemic and damn it, she wasn’t falling apart, she was having revelations. She wasn’t not me, but she wasn’t quite me either.
My acceptance letter seemed like an implicit deal between myself and the University Hall powers-that-be. If I lived up to the put-together-despite-everything girl my essay depicted, my life would go back to normal. Messiness be damned.
***
I got a nose piercing the August before college started. (High school is over and I refuse to sit around being sad anymore!) I also fainted shortly thereafter, because I’d been crying all morning and hadn’t had enough to eat, meaning I managed to give myself a head gash and a concussion just in time for my first week. It was probably the universe trying to send me a sign (YOU! YES, YOU!! YOU ARE NOT OKAY!), but I was too concussed to hear her anyway.
Besides, I had a mission to accomplish: gather a blueprint of high school Kate and implant it onto Harvard. I excelled in upper-level classes, rationed my time meticulously between service, advocacy, and journalism groups on campus. Which left only a few small problems. I was having hours of near-unmanageable chest pain every day; I’d end nights out with friends entirely dissociated, obsessed with how dust flakes patterned themselves on the nearest wall; and the air around my skin seemed to hold as much resistance as water.
I knew, on some level, that I wasn’t okay. But I was terrified of what might happen if I stopped walking down the path I’d laid out in my essay: its tidy ending would fall apart, and it would become abundantly clear that I didn’t know shit about rebuilding. Would Harvard recognize me without that narrative? Would I?
In February 2022, my chest pain reached a crisis point. By pure serendipity, I found a psychiatrist within walking distance of my dorm. Our first session was two hours long; by the end, she’d diagnosed me with major depression and generalized anxiety disorder and called in my first round of medication to CVS. I don’t remember ever feeling so transparent or raw or fragile — or so cared for. It was as though she’d touched my shoulder and whispered: it’s okay. I see how hard you’ve been trying, but I also see that it’s not working anymore. Just sit for a while. Rest. What’s the worst that could happen?
***
The moment I started to get better was also the moment I let go of the identity I thought legitimized my place here. It took acknowledging that all my so-called revelatory rebuilding had been part of my mess — admitting that I actually wasn’t okay, that I needed help — to start rebuilding for real.
What rebuilding really looks like, most of the time, is the color-coded pill box by my bed and the printout of anxiety strategies in the drawer beneath it. It looks boring and self-centered and unproductive. It’s not something that would impress an admissions officer — or my 17-year-old self. It is simply what I need to do to survive.
But it has, indeed, been beautiful at other times: the sheer awe at the whisper of world-wind I feel in my chest while reading Rousseau, or the crisscross pattern I make dripping balsamic glaze over a salad, or the warm rain pouring down my neck when I bike back to my dorm late at night.
I think I might be rebuilding for a while.
— Magazine writer Kate S. Griem can be reached at kate.griem@thecrimson.com.
This is one of six essays published in FM’s 2022 “Rewriting Our Harvard Admissions Essays” series. Read the rest of the series here.
Sections
Adele F. Bacow is no stranger to Cambridge. She’s worked in urban planning for over 30 years and was the founding president of Community Partners Consultants. Before that, she completed her undergrad at Wellesley College and received her graduate degree at MIT. Her husband is current Harvard University President Lawrence S. Bacow.
This interview has been edited for length and clarity.
FM: Have you all been celebrating the high holidays? Does your family have any traditions for Rosh Hashanah? 
AFB: Of course, we always do. It’s a time of reflection. We got to have dinner with my niece and her husband and my sister and her husband and their families, so that was a treat. And then going to our synagogue. What we always do is part of the time we go to Harvard Hillel and part at our synagogue that we belong to in Newton.
FM: Do you have a favorite dish you like to eat? 
AFB: It’s so funny, I emailed a staff person, wrote an email and said, “I made your chocolate date cake. It was delicious.” And I then was like, well actually, lately I’ve been baking this apple cranberry tart that I make every year because it’s got apples for the start of the New Year. So I sent her that recipe. So we’re trading recipes.
FM: Given all of your work in urban design, I’ve been wondering what you think the best designed part of Harvard or Cambridge is? What’s the worst?
AFB: I don’t know that I have one spot that I’d say “this is my favorite place in Harvard.” I think what I appreciate about Harvard is how easy it is to walk in and out of the various parts of campus. Even though Harvard Yard has a fence around it, it’s open and accessible and anybody can walk in and feel welcomed. So I like that part.
FM: What about Cambridge more broadly? Any parts that you think could be reinvisioned?
AFB: I spent a lot of time around Central Square when I was an undergrad and graduate student. It makes me feel good to see how Central Square has really strengthened, both its commercial but also its connection to the street and the various neighborhoods. That’s an area I think has really strengthened in the last 20 years or so, which is saying a lot, because I think it’s hard after two years of Covid, with so many businesses having to close their doors.
FM: How did you and Larry meet?
AFB: His roommate, Alan, was dating my friend, Debbie, who lived across the hall from me in my first year of college. We didn’t meet until September after I graduated from college, but they introduced us, so our first date was a blind date. Do you know what a blind date is?
FM: Yes, I know what a blind date is! What did you do?
AFB: We went to a Greek festival in Watertown. He had a great smile and he was easy to talk to. They had dancing and a lot of ouzo and a lot of fun, which is hysterical because Larry doesn’t like ouzo and he doesn’t like to dance. But we had a good time. We double-dated with the couple that introduced us — that’s another old term. Oh, and the important thing to know about them is they got married a week before we did and drove on their honeymoon down from Massachusetts to my hometown in Florida for the wedding. And we’re all still good friends, and we’re all still married.
FM: Do you remember what your second date was? 
AFB: Larry was in law school at the time, and he invited me with his friend, his friend was dating another roommate, they’d since got married the same week we did —
FM: Wait, the same week again? 
AFB: Yes.
FM: All three of them got married the same week?
AFB: No, all four. He had three roommates named Alan. We were the first ones to admit we were engaged. Within six weeks, they all got engaged, and we all got married in successive weekends in June in 1975. We’re all still married, and we’re all still good friends.
FM: In a Gazette article, you said being in college is the best age! Do you still feel that way? 
AFB: I did say that! No, your life will get better than being in college. Being around people at college age is wonderful because generally people are full of promise, full of hope, full of enthusiasm, full of curiosity, and open to ideas. Your life should get richer and fuller as you get older, which I think it does, if you’re fortunate. So for someone in my stage, I love being around college-aged kids for the reasons I just said. But don’t be dismayed. There’s so much uncertainty, and those questions can feel overwhelming, but with time, you’ll figure it out.
FM: What were you like in college? 
AFB: I went to Wellesley College, and I came from a very mediocre public high school in Jacksonville, Florida, and I really didn't learn to study until I got to college because I kind of didn’t have to. So I was very nerdy the first couple years. I just studied all the time, because I was worried I was going to flunk out. For some unknown reasons I made up a major in Urban Design and took a lot of classes at MIT in architecture and planning. I think I was braver than I knew I was, because I didn’t know anyone in those fields, and I took the bus most days to MIT to take these classes and I would be literally the only woman in these classes studying architecture and planning. And you just sort of put one foot in front of the other and do what you think you want to do somehow. In retrospect, I think that was pretty brave of me to do that, but I don’t think I thought about it in those terms at the time.
In college, I was like a kid in a candy shop. I loved the opportunities that Boston offered. Every weekend I would usher at the ART and I would see the concerts for free. In those days you could do that. Symphonies, plays, that kind of thing. And I just really ate up being in the city.
I was a freshman in 1969. That was a pivotal year. It was the Women’s Revolution, it was right after Martin Luther King, it was Bobby Kennedy, race riots. The spring of my year, students were sent home. It was Kent State, it was Vietnam War protesting. I was protesting in front of the president’s house at Wellesley. When I was taking classes at MIT I was gassed at one of the protests. It was a very complex time to be in college, and I grew up in a very protected, secure, happy home life. And then to come up North and be exposed to all the new ideas and the changes in the world, it was extremely eye-opening. I feel like it was very pivotal to my development as a human being, as a woman, as a professional, as someone just opening your eyes to the world. I think that perhaps what I witnessed helped steer me towards my professional goals.
FM: The arts have clearly been a really important part of your life since forever. Do you pursue art in your free time, or as a hobby still? Do you have a favorite medium?
AFB: I’m more into music now. I’ve been taking piano lessons for years, and I probably play the piano almost everyday. I read a lot when I can, but I’m not, like, a painter. I used to do pottery very seriously, but I finally gave away my potter's wheel. I was actually the founding president of the Wellesley College Potters Association. And then, when I took up piano, and working, it became hard to combine everything. My friends and I, we’re at the stage now where we’re like, “Well, what am I going to do with all these pots?” I think that sometimes when you do something for a long time, it’s time to move on to something else. I got a lot of enjoyment out of it for many years, and now I’m more drawn to music — classical music. I also play a lot of duets with a friend, which is fun. I used to play with my mother, and I used to play with our son.
FM: Does the friend you play with happen to be married to a person named Alan?
AFB: No. But there’s a high probability!
FM: What are you reading right now? 
AFB: I just finished a book of essays by — she wrote the “Dutch House” and “Bel Canto” — Ann Patchett. She wrote a book that came out during Covid, similar to essays she’d written previously, but they were beautifully written, I really enjoyed that. Each essay talks about a different time in her life that was profound, ranging from her first semester at college when she couldn’t come home and decided she was going to make Thanksgiving dinner for her college friends and what she learned about herself in doing that, to someone who was her mentor, to what it was like being a writer. I think it was a time of reflection, and a compilation of previous essays that she’d written, but they were very insightful. Let me look up the name, you might like this book: “These Precious Days: Essays.” I’m also just starting to read a book called “River of Doubt” that talks about Teddy Roosevelt’s passage down the Amazon after he lost the presidential election, which my book club is reading, but I literally just started it so I can’t speak on that. And before that I read “Crying in H-Mart.” Do you know it? It’s a memoir.
But I’ve been in the same book club for over 35 years, it’s really fun. We raised our family in Newton and it was started by some friends when our kids were little and in preschool together, and one of them said, “We can talk about things other than kids.” So they started a bookclub, so I joined it! And we’ve been meeting for a long, long time.
But they’re avid readers. A number of them are in more than one book club. It’s impressive. One friend — this shows you how much she likes to read — she said when she was a little girl, she would read in the shower. And I said, how do you do that? She said she stayed in the shower and the water would go down her back. Hahaha. Don’t worry, I don’t read in the shower.
FM: What misconceptions do you think people have about the Harvard presidency? 
AFB: People say to me a lot, “How does Larry handle all the stress of being president?” And the one thing I’ll say about him is he doesn’t get stressed about hard decisions. He’s a good decision maker and he’s got a great team, and he’s good at working with his team in having to navigate really complex issues. So it’s not like he stays up all night thinking, “What am I going to do about this next issue?” It’s more that it’s consistently relentless.
FM: So, you retired, and Larry is phasing out of the presidency. What are you guys looking forward to in this next stage?
AFB: For me, the thing I’m looking forward to the most is to have his undivided attention. He’s always juggling so many issues and so many demands on his time and wanting to respond quickly, which he does, to every overture. So I think for both of us it’ll be nice to just relax and for him not to have those consistent demands on his attention. Just to be able to walk the beach with relaxation, spend time with family and friends, and smell the roses a bit more!
— Associate Magazine Editor Maya M. F. Wilson can be reached at maya.wilson@thecrimson.com.
Sections
With autumn leaves and brisk morning air comes the start of college applications season. As deadlines loom, high school seniors feverishly refine resumes, triple-check transcripts, prepare for interviews, and of course, draft the all-important personal statement. Hunched over laptops or notebooks in classrooms, bedrooms, and libraries, they grapple with the challenge of condensing their strongest selves into 650 words. College essay prompts frequently ask applicants to reflect on the question of who am I? Yet with the looming pressure to gain admittance into increasingly selective elite institutions, who do I have to be? can feel like an equally significant query.
This was certainly true for Emi F. Nietfeld ’15, a former Crimson Magazine and Blog editor who recently published a memoir called “Acceptance” which traces her journey to Harvard College. The Harvard application process, Nietfeld writes, required her to “cash in on [her] sorrows,” to recount the mental illness and homelessness she experienced while growing up and present herself as hurt but resilient — and, most importantly, as not too broken to be unfit for the Ivy League.
The summer before her senior year of high school, Nietfeld ran out of places to stay and wrote her personal statement at the local library. “I tried to write these essays where I showed admissions committees that I was stronger for having been in foster care and being homeless, and then at the end of the day, I was still sleeping in my car,” she recalls. “I felt enormous pressure to act as if I had already overcome the stuff that was very much still ongoing.” In her memoir, Nietfeld rejects what she calls the “gospel of grit” cliché and, more generally, the trope of individual redemption arcs within broader systems of harm.
Her skepticism is part of a growing discourse surrounding narratives of resilience in the university admissions landscape. Just this year, for example, the Rhodes Trust rewrote the essay prompts for its fellowship, stating that over the past 10 to 15 years, applicants’ essays have been disproportionately “focused on ‘overcoming’ obstacles or trauma, or on a heroic narrative of problem-solving.”
Of course, reframing challenges as moments of growth can be a valuable tool in establishing a sense of strength and personal autonomy. Resilience in and of itself is not the item under scrutiny. Rather, critics of the “resilience narrative” are specifically referring to stories in which students feel pressure to appear as if they have overcome harms far beyond their control in order to appeal to a particular audience.
In other words, when students write about adversities such as mental illness, financial hardship, or discrimation based on race, gender, or sexuality, they may feel the need to inauthentically present themselves at the end of a triumphant story arc, as having already fully risen above a systemic challenge.
“There’s so many compounding pressures and structures designed to disempower students from lived experience and from the cultural context that they’re in,” says author Joan N. Kane ’00, a faculty member in Harvard’s English Department as well as the Tufts Department of Studies in Race, Colonialism and Diaspora. “It’s exhausting to feel that students have to have a sense of upward mobility in their narratives.”
For the past few semesters, Kane has taught a creative writing workshop called “Before and Beyond the (Imaginary White) Reader” to help Harvard students think about the relationship between themselves and their audience.
She characterizes the pressure to present as having conquered structural inequalities as “an act of encouraging one’s self-erasure.” According to her, the expectation to do so comes both from a long American literary tradition — the pull-yourself-up-by-your-bootstraps hero genre — as well as a more recent trend in publication, the marketability of a success story.
Beyond the world of books and publishing, sociologists have contributed to this discourse. Central to the resilience narrative is confidence in meritocracy that does not account for systemic harms. Even more important is the idea that resilience is a personal trait, rather than a response based on the community resources a person has available to help them bounce back.
“People don’t learn to think of themselves as part of a web of resources that are provided very unequally to people,” explains Professor Michèle Lamont, who teaches in Harvard’s Sociology and African and African American Studies departments and researches social change, inequality, and mechanisms of identity. “These factors coming together teach students to maximize what they think of as their resiliency: their ability to really focus and be hyper-performative, which disconnects them from others, and asserting control becomes really central to their lives.”
This teaching of hyper-performativity often begins young. “Students get socialized from a very early age to be able to apply to these schools, either by their parents or by their mentors,” Lamont says. “[They] know that if they want to get in, they have to develop very early on the type of experiences or attributes that will be valued by the university.”
But beyond the impact that this pressure to perform has on individual students, resiliency stories also affect the general cultural attitude toward elite institutions.
“This narrative of overcoming is especially dangerous because it’s used to justify certain institutions having all of this power,” Nietfeld says. “It’s used to justify being in such an unequal world.” She argues that iconizing Ivy League grit stories implies that upward mobility is equally accessible to all those who are hardworking and that institutions like Harvard are solving issues of structural inequality, rather than perpetuating them. The reality is that the majority of students who enter the gates of Harvard come from privileged backgrounds, and most people, regardless of merit or resilience, will never attend this institution or benefit from the advantages it offers.
When it comes to the students who have already gotten into Harvard, though, Kane hopes they can learn to resist the expectation to write resilience narratives; her workshop focuses on liberating students from the internal authorial voices that confine them.
“I find that people really start writing when they stop doing a kind of explanation and building a world for a white reader to inhabit,” she says. “It’s not just a question of craft, but it’s a question of proximity to one’s audience. As a writer, you’re constantly working with these modulations of power dynamics with your own voice and your work.”
For Nietfeld, this type of ongoing process has undergirded the writing of her memoir, which aims in part to set straight the incomplete narrative she put forth in her college essay.
“I felt that the experience of having to take my life story and twist it into this narrative that would be considered acceptable [to colleges] was so dehumanizing that it left me wondering who I was,” she said in an interview with the Harvard Gazette last month. “After I graduated from Harvard and was working at Google, I couldn’t stop thinking about both the things that happened in high school and the experience of packaging them. I started writing this book as an attempt to understand those really complicated years.”
Inspired by Nietfeld, writers from across The Harvard Crimson have been reflecting on their own college admissions journeys. In this series of introspections, they’re turning back to their Common Application essays and revealing the details that they concealed, exaggerated, or oversimplified in the pursuit of a tidy character arc. They discuss the pressures they experienced, the doubts they encountered, and the parts of themselves they left behind the first time around — with the hopes of telling a more complicated, more complete, and more authentic story.
— Associate Magazine Editor Mila G. Barry can be reached at mila.barry@thecrimson.com.
The new version of myself I’d created no longer belonged to me.
College admissions for selective institutions have no longer become a competition of test grades or grade point averages, but a race to the bottom to demonstrate prodigious authenticity.
What I’d intended as an outpouring of vulnerability, she’d seen as an ability to overcome adversity.
Even after filling up a notebook and a half, I didn’t know myself at all, and I certainly couldn’t know myself in 650 words.
How do I reconcile these complicated histories with the kind of future I’m aspiring toward?
I wanted to appeal to admissions officers in the way that my classmates were — by writing about our trauma — without really exposing myself.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Though some faculty members put forward Harvard Faculty of Arts and Sciences Dean Claudine Gay as a candidate for the University’s next president, she remained adamant that her focus is on her current work as dean in an interview Wednesday.
“I have a great job, and I have an agenda that excites me and I’m singularly focused on that,” Gay said.
In June, Harvard President Lawrence S. Bacow announced that he will step down next year, launching the search for the University’s next leader. The presidential search committee has since named faculty, staff, and student advisory committees to give input on the selection process.
Gay said Bacow has supported the FAS and appreciates the school’s contributions to the University, adding that she would like to see the next president take on similar qualities.
“One of the things that I really appreciated about working with him is that he’s always ready to make my problems his problems and join me in trying to get through solutions,” she said, “My simple hope is that I have a partner like the partner that I’ve had for the last four years. So I really look forward to the search.”
This year, the FAS brought in Government professor Taeku Lee and History professors Erika Lee and Jesse E. Hoffnung-Garskof ’93 as part of an ethnic studies cluster hire initiative launched in 2019.
In addition to the three professors, Gay said she is “equally excited” to welcome the dozen new Social Sciences and Arts and Humanities faculty who will be doing work related to ethnicity, indigeneity, and migration.
“Many of them are coming to Harvard after really impactful, institution-building careers at other universities, and I think that really bodes well for us in terms of what the future looks like here for building and conceptualizing a really dynamic academic program in the broad areas of migration,” she said.
As the ethnic studies cluster hire draws to a close, the FAS continues two other hiring initiatives.
“With a national search actively underway, we will welcome the inaugural FAS campus curator, who will lead the reimagining of our visual culture and partner with the campus community to expand the narratives we tell in our shared spaces,” Gay wrote in a message to FAS affiliates at the beginning of the semester.
She said Wednesday that an “impressive group of candidates” has been identified for the campus curator position.
Over the summer, the FAS Committee on Visual Culture and Signage toured three “high-impact” spaces identified in a report that outlined recommendations for creating a more “dynamic, welcoming, and inclusive” visual culture on campus, Gay said. These spaces include the Faculty Room in University Hall, Annenberg Hall, and the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Center in Lehman Hall.
Gay said the committee is now gathering information and formulating questions about each space in anticipation of the campus curator.
During Tuesday’s first faculty meeting of the semester, Gay provided updates on the FAS’ climate cluster hire initiative. On Wednesday, Gay said she hopes the FAS will recruit up to three scholars who study environment, climate, and sustainability in the next two years.
Gay added that the hiring initiatives are “high leverage moves that help to stimulate further hiring across the school in ways that are highly complementary.”
—Staff writer Ariel H. Kim can be reached at ariel.kim@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @ArielH_Kim.
—Staff writer Meimei Xu can be reached at meimei.xu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @MeimeiXu7.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A new study conducted by Harvard researchers appears to have detected the first-ever proof of changes in ocean levels due to glacial melting, known as sea level fingerprints.
The study, led by Harvard professor Jerry X. Mitrovica and Harvard Ph.D. Sophie Coulson, could be key to predicting future sea level changes amid the effects of climate change.
“Sea level is one of the most complex and, I would say, detrimental impacts of climate,” Mitrovica said. “If you want to know what sea level is going to look like in 2100, then what you have to ask is what you think the Antarctic and Greenland ice sheets and glaciers will look like.”
When ice glaciers melt, ocean levels fall near the glacier and rise several thousand miles away due to glacial gravitational pulls — resulting in a pattern known as sea level fingerprints. While scientists have broadly agreed that sea level fingerprints exist, the study by Coulson and Mitrovica is the first to identify proof of it in nature.
Mitrovica said scientists have faced difficulties for years in identifying sea level rise that can be specifically attributed to glaciers because of the array of environmental factors that also raise ocean levels.
“You’re trying to pull out of this very noisy ocean of ours… a relatively small signal,” Mitrovica said.
Mitrovica and his team were able to observe sea level fingerprints thanks to European satellite data and a new method they used to account for the effects of wind and tides.
“We developed a way that we could correct for this wind-driven stuff,” he said. “Prior to our work, I think you’d have to probably wait another 20 years to see a clear fingerprint signal. But because you were able to see very close to the ice sheet that was melting, we shortened that timescale by decades.”
Mitrovica, who has studied the phenomenon of sea level fingerprints for years, said he was “overwhelmed” when he learned of his team’s research findings.
“For us, it’s a kind of bookend because we were the group that developed the ideas of sea level fingerprints,” he said. “I knew that it was there, but I just didn’t think we would be the ones to see it. I got quite emotional about it because we’ve written at least two dozen papers that have successfully refined how you make predictions of fingerprints.”
—Staff writer Jeremiah C. Curran can be reached at jeremiah.curran@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @jerryccurran.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Emil’ Keme, a 2022-2023 Radcliffe Institute Fellow, discussed Indigenous Yanomami attitudes toward the Amazon rainforest and approaches to environmental conservation at a Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study event Wednesday afternoon.
In his virtual presentation, Keme — an English professor at Emory University and an Indigenous K’iche’ Maya scholar and activist — described the role ancestral Indigenous values play in the relationship between humans and the environment. Keme urged the audience to consider the Yanomami teachings in their efforts to combat environmental issues.
He described the need for a collective effort to preserve and value the environment.
“I’m trying to highlight that specific relationship between Indigenous peoples and the land and why it is important for us to defend it,” Keme said. “We’re fighting to defend Mother Earth but it’s not only an Indigenous struggle, it’s a struggle that has to involve all of us.”
Keme based his framework on “The Falling Sky,” a biographical account by Yanomami elder Davi Kopenawa on Indigenous experiences in the Brazilian and Venezuelan rainforest and environmental ethics.
During his talk, Keme presented data from the World Bank that shows Indigenous peoples are protecting 80 percent of the world’s biodiversity, despite only constituting five percent of the population.
“Well, how are Indigenous peoples doing that?” Keme asked. “You’re going to find that we are putting our bodies on the street in order to defend the sacred, in order to defend Mother Earth.”
He also cited the Idle No More Movement launched in Canada, which opposes the exploitation of natural resources on lands of Indigenous peoples in the First Nations.
As a Radcliffe Institute Fellow, Keme is working to analyze Indigenous efforts toward self-determination in Abiayala, the Indigenous term for the American continents.
Through his research and fellowship, Keme said he hopes to raise awareness about Indigenous protection efforts and learn as much as possible from local Indigenous organizations and leaders.
“The reason why I’m here to work on this project on Abiayala is because I feel that Indigenous communities from the south and the north are so disconnected,” he said. “We don’t know much about each other, and we really need to learn from one another in order to create bridges that can lead us to potential alliances.”
Keme identified a lack of societal awareness about Indigenous people, citing his students’ inability to name Indigenous artists and entertainers.
“‘Tell me about indigenous entertainers.’ Complete silence,” he said. “It's just that knowledge is so absent and so necessary.”
“We offer this wisdom that hopefully can help us better understand our relationship to the environment,” he added.
Despite obstacles, Keme said he has a positive outlook on the future of environmental and Indigenous activism.
“A lot of people have this dystopian vision of the future,” he said. “Even though we criticize settler colonialism, we’re very optimistic that we’re going to overcome a lot of the challenges that we’re facing.”
Keme closed the talk by calling on the audience to apply Indigenous perspectives in environmental protection efforts.
“See how you can connect and support these communities because we don’t expect anything from the government — so it has to be on us,” he said.
“Usually the messages that are given to us by Indigenous leaders is ‘no matter what happens to us, you have to continue to fight,” Keme added.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Hundreds of students and affiliates crowded into Cabot House Theater for Harvard College’s first Trans+ Community Celebration on Wednesday evening.
The event, which featured speaker panels and a resource fair for healthcare services, was held by the College’s Office of BGLTQ Student Life and Harvard’s chapter of Athlete Ally — an organization whose mission is to “create visibility and liberation for every sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression in sports.”
The event’s resource fair aimed to connect students and affiliates with a variety of local organizations, including the Boston Area Trans Support and the Massachusetts LGBT Chamber of Commerce. Boston Medical Center, along with other state and local institutions and organizations, hosted tables near the auditorium.
Charlie King ’24, lead organizer of the event, praised the high turnout but described gatherings like Wednesday’s as a “rarity.”
“You can just see sort of the light that goes into people when we’re all together as a community in a way that we get very few opportunities to do,” King said.
During the event, speaker Elliot J. Marrow ’14 said the trans community needs people “willing to speak with their organizations, their churches, their school boards, their neighborhoods” about trans awareness and allyship.
“Trans people can speak for themselves and it is important to amplify trans voices, but it’s also true that we are a small community, and we are under enormous pressure,” Marrow said. “The world feels a little safer and a little kinder every time we see someone’s willing to go to bat for us.”
Nicole R. “Nicki” Lutschaunig ’23-’24 described the event as “incredibly important” due to its focus on trans people and allies.
“Since I’ve been here, I’ve seen many LGBTQ+ community events, which are great,” Lutschaunig said. “Having one focused for the trans+ community is also really important because they deal with issues that maybe other queer people don't.”
Anna Baeth, director of research for Athlete Ally, hosted a learning space and presentation that drew dozens of Harvard affiliates and educated attendees on allyship and issues facing transgender athletes.
“This is the first event of this kind that I’ve ever seen — a true celebration and conversation about trans lives and trans lives in sport,” Baeth said in an interview. “My hope is that this is something that really can be replicated in other parts of the United States, but also can really be a moment of reflection and a moment of joy for the trans community.”
John R. Cordes, an attendee and member of the Harvard Curling Team, said he appreciates Athlete Ally and believes that “sports can be a really powerful way of being inclusive and empowering.”
“It’s important to show that there are allies on campus and in the community and resources and just sort of general support,” Cordes said.
King said they hope to work with the University to receive increased funding and resources for future trans+ community events.
“It felt great to have a place for community and to learn from people that I have a shared identity with,” King said. “This event really represents trans joy at its finest, bringing people together, being able to exist as our truest forms of self, and continuing to learn and grow with people that care about us.”
—Staff Writer Darley A. C. Boit can be reached at darley.boit@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Vivi E. Lu can be reached at vivi.lu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @vivielu_.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard Medical School professor Frederick W. Alt will be awarded the 2023 Paul Ehrlich and Ludwig Darmstaedter Prize, one of Germany’s highest medical honors, at an award ceremony held at St. Paul’s Church in Frankfurt, Germany next March.
The prize is given annually to scientists who have contributed significantly to medicine, specifically in the fields of immunology, cancer research, hematology, microbiology, and chemotherapy. Alt will be recognized for his research investigating how the immune system is capable of recognizing multiple antigens upon first contact.
Alt said he was “pleasantly surprised” that he had won the award, adding that he was unaware he had been nominated.
“It’s obviously a great honor because it’s considered the top award in medical research in Germany,” Alt said. “It was a great surprise and it was wonderful.”
Alt will be awarded the honor next year alongside Yale School of Medicine Immunobiology Chair David G. Schatz.
“I think a lot of people were very pleased to see that David Schatz and I got it together because they know we really like each other a lot,” Alt said. “I think there’s a lot of excitement about it.”
Alt said after a long period without many initial breakthroughs in his team’s research into the recombination of chromatin in B cells and T cells — cell types that are part of the immune system — his team decided to go with a different strategy.
“We wanted to make new methods and new high throughput assays that would allow us to look at these things in more detail,” Alt said. “Maybe a decade or even a little more ago, we started developing these assays and perfecting them.”
Alt said eventually his team was able to develop ideal assays, by which he discovered that the fundamental mechanism for chromatin recombination was by chromatin loop extrusion.
“It’s just been fantastic in the sense that once you have assays together, then all of a sudden things make sense,” he said.
Alt said he wants to look into a tangential process known as somatic hypermutation going forward since very little is known about it currently.
“We know that understanding of somatic hypermutation is so important for trying to develop vaccines and other things that will work based on generating highly specific antibodies, like HIV vaccines,” Alt said.
Several people who have won the Paul Ehrlich and Ludwig Darmstaedter Prize have gone on to win the Nobel Prize.
“It’s nice to get this kind of recognition, and that’s almost as good as it gets for me,” he said. “The next level of prizes is not something worth spending your time on.”
Correction: October 13, 2022:
A headline on a previous verion of this article incorrectly stated Frederick W. Alt's title at the Harvard Medical School.
—Staff writer Krishi Kishore can be reached at krishi.kishore@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard Mathematics professor Melanie Matchett Wood was named one of 25 recipients of the MacArthur Fellowship on Wednesday for her work in “addressing the foundational questions in number theory from the perspective of arithmetic statistics.”
Wood joined Harvard’s Math Department in 2020 and is the sole Harvard faculty member among this year’s MacArthur recipients. Known as the “genius grant,” the prize is an “$800,000, no-strings-attached award to extraordinarily talented and creative individuals as an investment in their potential,” according to the MacArthur Fellowship Foundation website.
“This was a huge surprise,” Wood said in an interview. “Even for a mathematician to win, it’s exciting, and so certainly, this is something that I would never have expected to be me.”
Since the fellowship was founded in 1981, only 42 of the total 1,111 winners have studied mathematics, statistics, or probability.
Two Harvard College alumni — MIT professor Danna Freedman ’03 and Yale professor Emily Wang ’97 — were also named MacArthur fellows on Wednesday.
Wood studies major mathematical questions, such as number theory, by applying concepts from other topics in the field.
“Lately, especially, I’ve been thinking a lot about using ideas from probability theory to answer questions that don't really seem like they have anything to do with probability or at least traditional probability at first,” she said.
Wood added that she appreciates the MacArthur Foundation’s recognition of “the creativity and the boundary-pushing in mathematics,” which she said can be harder to see in math than in disciplines in the humanities.
“Something that is very meaningful to me is how the MacArthur Foundation is honoring and celebrating the creativity in mathematics,” she said.
Wood’s journey in math began in seventh grade when a teacher encouraged her to participate in Math Counts, a middle school math competition.
“To me, in middle school and high school, doing math competitions gave me a chance to face problems that I really had to puzzle on,” Wood said. “I have to try different things and to consider new approaches, and that part of math is the part that I really, really fell in love with.”
At age 16, Wood became the first female member of the U.S. International Mathematical Olympiad Team.
After completing her undergraduate degree at Duke University, Wood earned a Ph.D. at Princeton University in 2009. Before coming to Harvard, she held faculty positions at Stanford University, the University of Wisconsin-Madison, and the University of California, Berkeley. Wood was also a Five-Year Fellow with the American Institute of Mathematics.
According to Harvard Mathematics department chair Michael J. Hopkins, Wood is interested in lowering barriers in the math world and tries to encourage students by allowing them to join in her research projects.
“In her research, she’s remarkable for doing things that cut across fields,” Hopkins said. “Within her research, she always manages to find things — little parts of it — that could be projects for students, for undergraduates or grad students.”
“She's inspiring,” he added. “You talk to her and you’re sort of immediately aware you're talking to someone that thinks about math at a very high level and yet can communicate math at any level.”
—Staff writer Marina Qu can be reached at marina.qu@thecrimson. Follow her on Twitter @MingyiQu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Following a historic 2021-22 campaign that featured the first Beanpot title and NCAA tournament berth since 2015, the No. 13/13 Harvard women’s ice hockey team begins the season in the midst of a transition. In addition to the new threads that the Crimson will wear this season, the team will feature many new faces when it kicks off its season at Bright-Landry Hockey Center on Oct. 15 versus Quinnipiac.
“We’re young compared to a year ago,” said head coach Katey Stone, who is entering her 28th season at the helm. “We are going to be learning as we go a bit more.”
This expected learning curve has been reflected in the media’s preseason rankings. After finishing last season ranked ninth in both the USA Today and USCHO poll, the Crimson started the season ranked 13th in each. Even after claiming the ECAC regular season title in 2021-22, coaches across the league are doubtful of Harvard’s chance to repeat. In the ECAC preseason poll, which is voted on by the conference’s coaches and sports information directors, the Crimson is picked to finish seventh behind fellow Ivy league schools: Cornell, Princeton, and Yale.
The Crimson will be without nine seniors from last year’s 22-win squad. This group includes defender Emma Buckles ’22, who led the team in plus-minus, and forward Becca Gilmore ’22, who paced the squad in assists and points. Harvard will attempt to replace their production with underclassmen, as only six of the 18 returning players are juniors or seniors. Along with the first-years, the beginning of the season will also be an adjustment for the sophomores.
“[With] a lot of depth in our senior class, a lot of our sophomores didn’t play a bunch of minutes,”  Stone said. “They are still gaining a lot of experience.”
Out of the 12 returning sophomores, only four have recorded a goal, with forward Paige Lester pacing the group with three. Additionally, only one sophomore, defender Mia Biotti, recorded double-digit points. Goalkeeping is also an area where the Crimson lack experience, as sophomores Daisy Boynton and Alex Pellicci have a combined three career starts.
Throughout the offseason, the class of five first-years has made a positive impression through their high energy and potential for growth.
“They have great enthusiasm and there are tremendous opportunities for all of them,” Stone said.
Along with the departing senior class, the Crimson will have to replace the production from Taze Thompson and Lindsay Reed. Last year, Thompson ranked fifth on the team in goals and points, capturing Ivy League Rookie of the Year honors and a spot on the ECAC All-Rookie Team. After her brilliant campaign, she decided to transfer and will lace up her skates for Northeastern this upcoming season. Reed is also missing from the official team roster. The senior holds the Harvard record for saves in a single season and has the third-highest all-time career save percentage in program history (.927).
The leadership of the squad will fall onto the shoulders of its experienced seniors. All three of Harvard’s seniors, forward Anne Bloomer, defender Kyra Willoughby, and forward Kristin Della Rovere, will serve as captains this season. Stone has high hopes for the group.
“They are the engine for our team and will be all year,” said the reigning Ivy League Coach of the Year.
Bloomer will hope to build upon the scoring prowess that she showed last year. The Chicago native paced the team with 20 goals last season and posted the Crimson’s only hat trick of the season. Bloomer was also known for her late-game heroics, as she registered four game-winning goals throughout the season. Willoughby will serve as the anchor for the Harvard defense, and is coming off a season where she led the Crimson with 35 blocked shots and earned an All-Ivy League Honorable mention. Della Rovere, an ECAC and Ivy League First Teamer last season, will continue to lead the team from the center. She led Harvard with 403 faceoff wins and dished out a career-best 25 assists in 2021-22.
Building off of the team philosophy of last year, the Crimson’s playstyle will be predicated on its hard work and pre-game preparation.
“One of the biggest things for us to do is to make sure that we outwork everybody we play, and if we do we have a lot of good opportunities in front of us,” Stone said.
Harvard will open the season with a four-game homestand. Although the Crimson will have the added boost from the home crowd, the inexperienced squad will be tested early, as two of the matchups feature ranked opponents in No. 7/7 Quinnipiac and No. 8/8 Yale. The biggest test for the young squad will happen in November, when Harvard travels to Duluth, Minn. to take on No. 5/4 Minnesota-Duluth. 
–Staff writer Christopher D. Wright can be reached at christopher.wright@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard men’s soccer team (5-4-2, 0-1-1) met Columbia at home this past Saturday while on the hunt for their first Ivy League win. Although the Crimson led for most of the hard-fought contest, the Lions were able to net one in the second half, ending the game tied 1-1.
The first goal of the game came quickly for Harvard. Junior defender Nik White scored his third goal of the season off of a stellar corner kick from junior midfielder Willem Ebbinge at the 3:21 mark, putting Harvard up early. Ebbinge is now at a team-best 6 assists on the season, also leading the team with 12 points on three goals and six assists. He is one of the Crimson’s most consistent players, marking points in most of the games this season.
Unfortunately for Harvard, immediately after White scored, he went down with an early injury. Although this was a big blow for the Crimson, they rebounded quickly, keeping Columbia to only one shot on goal in the first half, which senior goalkeeper Oskar Nilsson knocked away with an impressive dive. The defensive players for the Crimson have been steady this season, only allowing 16 goals to Harvard’s 22 goals.
A particular bright spot for the Crimson is sophomore defender Jan Riecke, who once again played all 90 minutes of the competition, bringing his total tally on the year up to 990 minutes. White has been another important player for Harvard, playing most, if not all, of many games and contributing 3 goals and 1 assist. His 7 points place him fourth on the team, behind sophomore forward Alessandro Arlotti, senior forward Martín Vician, and Ebbinge.
Harvard entered the second half up by 1, which was almost extended by Vician early on, but thanks to a great effort from Lions senior goalkeeper Michael Collodi, he was denied from adding to his 5 goals on the season. The game continued for around 10 minutes, until Columbia made it a tie game off of first-year midfielder Joao Lima, who laid in an assist from teammate first-year midfielder Ryan Yang. Yang regained a failed clear, passed it though to Lima, who corralled the ball quickly in order to sweep it past Nilsson and knot the game.
Columbia’s Lima has had a strong season so far, earning Ivy League Rookie of the Week honors off of his performance at Harvard, in which he had his second goal of the year. A Harvard first-year has earned this honor in the past, midfielder Matus Vician, for his performance in Harvard’s 6-0 win over Fairfield on Sept. 24th, in which he posted four points off of one goal and two assists. The younger brother of senior Martín Vician, Matus Vician is making a name for himself early for the Crimson.
However, the game only got more exciting. Both teams had several other chances to end on top in the last few minutes. Sophomore defender Kristján Gunnarsson almost was able to put the game away for the Crimson in the 73rd minute after sprinting up the right side of the field. However, the shot sailed wide of the net with minutes to play. Nilsson’s goalkeeping skills were on full display in the final five minutes of the game, as he had to come up with two remarkable saves. His last save was one of his most impressive, barely reaching a shot from 15 yards out off the foot of Columbia’s Lima. A relief for Crimson fans, he delivered on all three of his saves, maintaining the tie for Harvard.
This result moved the Crimson to 39-26-6 all-time against Columbia.
Ebbinge and Nilsson both played well for Harvard. Ebbinge, besides his assist to White, provided many opportunities for the Crimson, while Nilsson made several notable saves in order to keep Harvard in the game. However, it was a team effort, as the Crimson controlled most of the possession during play and proved itself to be a composed and competitive team.
Harvard now looks ahead to the rest of its season, with which the exception of Holy Cross on Oct. 18th, will be all in-league play. After one loss to Cornell and this tie to Columbia, the Crimson is facing several must-win games in order to still have a shot at the Ivy League title.
The Crimson will continue its quest for its first league win on the road against the Brown University Bears this Saturday, Oct. 15.
–Staff writer Maddie B. Barkate can be reached at madison.barkate@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
From Hemmingway to the MAC and QRAC, there are countless Harvard students getting their life together by working out and prioritizing their health. But not every student is the same. In fact, after spending a week-ish watching people at the gym (nope, not creepy at all), Flyby has done all of the work so you don’t have to — here are seven types of Harvard students you’re bound to run into at the gym.
1. The Senior/The Hottie
This person knows what they’re doing. They have all of their workouts listed on their phone in one of their six health/fitness related apps. And yes, they have abs and calves we can only dream of. They’re most likely your gym crush and radiating senior who has their shit together energy.
2. The Hoggers
I really don’t know why they won’t share the weights. No clue why they have to use the same machine for an hour, only to switch to another machine and sweat all over that one for an hour too. No queue of people waiting for the treadmill or disappointed glances can shake a hogger who will do exactly what they set out to do — with a protein shake in hand.
3. The Mirror-Obsessed
These people are always checking themselves out — but can we blame them? We all love a good progress photo or two. The problem begins when they start to think that everyone at the gym is also obsessed with them. Or when they start trying to pick up dates. As you’re on the treadmill. Nexxxxxt!
4. The Multi-Taskers
I don’t think this is safe, but I’ve seen multiple students read books while exercising. Yes, I’m talking about flipping through text books while running on the treadmill. Most commonly seen in Hemenway, the law school gym, the multi-taskers can also be seen catching up on shows or assigned movies for their seminars while burning off that day's calories. While not safe, one can agree that Harvard students know how to maximize their time efficiently.
5. The Sleepers
It always starts with a prolonged closing of the eyes — a long-lasting blink at best. Then, the blink turns into a little “let me take a quick cat-nap on the treadmill.” This inevitably turns into a full, deep slumber... So far, we’ve witnessed at least two people snoring on the elliptical.
6. The People Watchers
Us. Flyby. And perhaps everyone who is looking to get cuffed this semester (or even a senior thesis writer). All these people want to do is just get to know what everyone is doing and why, but actually exercising? That’s debatable.
7. You (Our Fave)
You at the gym is a possibility or maybe it’s already a reality. Perhaps we stalked you this week, or maybe we didn’t. Not to put any pressure on you, but we hope if you decide to go to the gym, you go well-rested, work out using the machines respectfully, or just go people watch — that’s okay too.

Yeah, we’re not sure if we’ll return to the gym again either. But, at least you’ll know what to expect if you decide to, you know, hit the gym.
