News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Last year, I lived in Straus Hall, a wonderful freshman dorm and a prime location for late sleepers and late-night snackers. However, while Straus A-11’s location on Massachusetts Avenue offered a rare proximity to classrooms and El Jefe’s (I often reminisce on the immediacy of such locations as I schlep from the Quad), living so close to the square also offered a different proximity — a less comfortable proximity.
On any given night in Straus, as I shut my lights off and tucked myself into a warm bed, concerned with readings and essays, someone else may have been staving off the elements and searching for rest just twenty feet away, concerned with survival. Now, I pass by the same people daily as I make my way down Mass. Ave. from the Quad. We exist so close together, yet it feels like we operate in different universes.
Harvard Square can be numbing. Headphones in, head down, hurrying to get to lecture, one can look past the crisis that manifests less than a hundred feet outside our glorified dormitories. Tunnel vision of classes and extracurriculars blind us to the experiences — perhaps the very existence — of people living on the streets.
The man shaking a cup outside the Coop, the young woman who carries her bags with her in the Yard each day, or the Spare Change News vendor who greets everyone with a smile don’t fit the typical mold for Harvard interactions. They don’t offer job prospects, social opportunities, or LinkedIn connections. Stopping to say hello, buying someone a meal, or even looking up and smiling is a renunciation of the time-optimized lifestyle we feel so constantly obligated to follow. Where in my Google Calendar is space dedicated to sitting and talking with an unhoused person?
Separated from us by only a brick wall, a black fence, and a bulwark of elite education, the folks who sleep on Mass. Ave. benches are just as much my neighbors as my friends down the hall. They are just as much members of the community as temporary Institute of Politics Fellows and traveling dignitaries, as present in students’ day-to-day lives as their proctors and their professors, and as deserving of basic kindness, dignity, and respect as each student who receives a coveted acceptance letter in the mail.
The presence of people experiencing houselessness at Harvard is undeniable, and the suffering in our streets is palpable, especially in the midst of a cold and unforgiving Cambridge winter. The unhoused folks in Harvard Square are our neighbors, and neighbors need to care for each other.
This isn’t a piece on Harvard’s devastating impacts on the housing market. It isn’t a call to build more public housing, nor a reflection on the causes of rising housing insecurity across our nation. I have no policy to offer that could immediately fix our problems or house our neighbors. Regretfully, many of those decisions are out of my control.
I can control how I walk through the Square, though. I can choose to divert my gaze. To walk past and hustle to another class where we discuss Marx and Weber and theories that purport to help me “change the world.” I can ignore the realities of that world right in front of my eyes. It would be easier. It would probably take less emotional effort.
But I refuse.
I, and all of us, can do better. We can stop and say hello. We can look people in the eye with the same dignity and respect we afford our friends and professors. We can learn a name, maybe four. We can tell someone ours. Shake a hand, buy someone lunch, make a friend. Listen. We can see our unhoused neighbors as fellow human beings. It is literally the least we can do.
To acknowledge the folks sharing our streets is to confront our comfortable existence at this powerful institution and reckon with our inherent responsibility in fostering its community, both inside and outside the gates of the Yard. It isn’t easy. For many, popping the bubble and saying hello may require more care than a problem set, more emotional effort than a research paper. But its impact is worth it.
“How are you doing today, young man?” the Spare Change vendor asks with a smile, gray beard creeping up his cheeks like the cold in early October.
“I’m doing fine today. How are you?” I already know his answer. I’ve heard it many times before.
He shakes his head at the ground, but his smile doesn’t waver: “I’m trying.” There’s a slight uptick in his voice.
Me too. I wish I had the answers. Let’s all try harder.
Matthew E. Nekritz ’25, a Crimson Editorial editor, is a Social Studies concentrator in Cabot House.​​​​​​​
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
We all are fast approaching
That magic time of year
Which brings such raw excitement
And just a touch of fear.

The Yard’s abuzz with chatter
And stakes are running high
For first years will get sorted soon
And Housing Day is nigh.

But lemme tell you folks,
Things out there are getting vicious
Cause all those Harvard freshman
are like, hella superstitious.
In Annenberg, at 9 am,
I heard some first-years pout,
“Let’s cut ‘em from our blocking group.
We have to kick ‘em out.

Everyone at Harvard knows
Big blocking groups are sucky,
More likely to get Quadded,
And just all around unlucky.”  

This really doesn’t make much sense
As Harvard clearly states,
What house you get is random.
Only chance can change your fates.

Then later on in History class,
My friend received a text
That made me feel a touch confused
And left her quite perplexed.

“Yo, if we wanna get a spot
In prime river locations
We need to find someone with
AEO accommodations.”

The thought behind that text, it seems,
Is something rather old
That many desperate freshman
Have repeatedly been told:

That if you block with someone
Who receives accommodations
You’re sure to get a River House
With recent renovations.

And so in an attempt to
Get a house they’d fancy more,
Some might begin recruiting folks
They’ve never met before!

But weirder still are practices
That happen after blocking.
The night before the dorm storm
Can be fun and rather shocking.

Some freshmen think that River Run
Will help improve their odds
But not even twelve rum shots
Can appease the River Gods.

Statistics have revealed that
Housing Day is based on chance
And tryna game the system
Simply won’t help you advance.

While things like River Run
Can have a quite a bit of charm,
Hating on Quad Houses,
In excess, can do some harm.

To demonstrate, on Housing Day,
Some first years are so set 
On what they want and what they don’t,
They oft’ end up upset.

For if a House they do not want
Comes knocking at their door,
They’ll cry and close it promptly,
Feeling bitter to their core.

Such tears are quite regrettable,
Because, without a doubt,
Every upperclassman house
Has much to brag about!

So if you are a first-year
Who is worried ‘bout your House,
Or maybe you just wanna
Leave your triple back in Straus,

Then this will be your guide
To everything you need to know:
I’ll tell you ‘bout each House
And why each one has many pros.

‘Cause though folks like to hold
Their House in extra high regard,
Just know that every single one
Is better than the Yard.

First up in neighborhoods: the Quad.
They say it’s far away,
But nothing keeps you fit and toned
Like walks four times a day.

Pfoho has massage chairs for
When you get super stressed
And lots of fun arcade games
That will leave you real impressed.

Cabot’s got a fun café
And fancy hardwood floors.
Quad Lawn is rather lovely
And their treadmills always score.

Currier’s the only House
To bear a woman’s name.
We’ve got the greatest dhall
And house vids that change the game. 

Next up, we’re doing River East
And Dunster’s quite the GOAT.
Their Sophomore house induction
Tends to happen on a boat.

Leverett is the biggest House
Their mascot’s super cute.
They’ve got the greatest river views
And such a short commute!

Mather’s got a JCR
That’s always hella lit.
With pottery and singles
Their house setup is legit.

Now we’ll move to River West
‘Cause Eliot’s got Fête,
A super fancy party
That you surely won’t forget.

Kirkland house is quirky
They are brimming with tradition.
With “choosenings” and IncestFest
They school the competition.
Finally, there’s Winthrop House
That’s newly renovated.
Their House Grille and five courtyards
Will for sure get you elated.
Last up, River Central’s turn.
Quincy’s got a Grille,
Ceramics and hot breakfast
Mean it’s sure to fit the bill.
Adams’s kinda creepy 
But, like, in a fancy way. 
Golden walls and organs
Are always on bright display.
Lastly we’ve got Lowell House
Its dining hall is yellow. 
I think that they drink tea?
It’s nice. Kinda mellow.
So yeah, that’s all the Houses. 
Gosh, there’s like, so many.
But honestly, the next four years,
You’ll hear about ‘em plenty.
Mostly, though, just know
No matter where you get assigned,
There’s lots for you to smile about
So please keep that in mind.
Don’t cry if you get Quadded. 
And please don’t close the door. 
Cause all the Harvard houses
Have stuff to be happy for.
Mireya Sánchez-Maes ’24 is a joint concentrator in English and Theater, Dance, and Media in Currier House. Her column “Rhyme and Reason” appears on alternate Mondays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
More than 200 Harvard affiliates have already signed a petition calling for the denaming of Winthrop House.
And they’re right. It’s time to dename Winthrop House.
Winthrop House is named for two John Winthrops. The first enslaved at least seven people, ordered 17 prisoners in the Pequot War to be sold as slaves, and helped legalize slavery in Massachusetts. The second owned two enslaved individuals and allowed students to prepare defenses of slavery at Harvard’s 1773 Commencement.
As we have opined before, we should carefully consider the facts of every individual case before calling for denaming. Historical context is undoubtedly important; however, if we move to contextualize the Winthrops, we should do the same for the African and Indigenous people they subjugated. A holistic evaluation of the facts leads us to find particular merit in denaming Winthrop House.
There are those who argue denaming is only symbolic, but we view this as a feature, not a flaw. Denaming is indeed symbolic, but that’s because it remedies the equally symbolic process of venerating individuals through naming.
Others may accuse the campaign to dename Winthrop as erasure of Harvard’s history, but building names are not the concern of history. No one can deny the weight of the Winthrops in Harvard’s historical lineage — Harvard’s own extensive monographs, archival records, and institutional heritage would not allow for it.
Instead, building names are the concern of public memory: a reflection of our collective values, of the actions and people we wish to commemorate in plaques above the heads of students shuffling day after day through our hallowed halls.
Even if denaming Winthrop could constitute erasure from Harvard’s history, this school’s public memory should be updated with each incoming generation’s views. Some would ask us to reconsider the Winthrops as figures of their time, but — particularly as a collection of students rather than trained historians — our relationship to history is tinged by present-tense glasses. With fresh undergrads cycling in every four years, our campus is by nature not a stagnant space. We can change its names.
To dename a building named in honor of individuals whose actions do not align with our values is a laudable solution within the framework at hand. We appreciate the organizers of this petition — who include members of the Generational African American Students Association and Natives at Harvard College — for the effort, research, and courage they have dedicated to this cause. We hope that similar initiatives will be undertaken in response to the plethora of other buildings on campus honoring oppressors.
The petition to dename Winthrop has the potential to be the first success of the formal Faculty of Arts and Sciences process of submitting denaming requests. If not approved, it can only be reconsidered after five years, except under “extraordinary circumstances.” We call upon Harvard’s administration to take this opportunity to prove their commitment to the denaming initiative, by seeing a well-founded, highly-supported request to fruition.
Still, denaming is hardly the end-all be-all to remedying Harvard’s long history of oppression and legacy of slavery.
Denaming should be paired with intentional naming anew. Naming Harvard’s Houses exclusively after white people suggests that people of color are immaterial to Harvard’s storied history — a proposition far from reality. We urge Houses to consider diversifying whom their physical spaces honor.
Outside of building names that exist in the realm of public memory, remembering our history is essential to cultivate our collective reckoning and inspire change. As we have repeatedly advocated for, Harvard should curate a museum of institutional failings, so that every student who enters this institution understands its past marred with profound wrongs. We wait with bated breath for the record of the House formerly known as Winthrop to enter this museum’s collections.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After a ceiling panel fell and nearly hit a rider at the Harvard Square station on the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority’s Red Line Wednesday afternoon, the transit system began an audit of all similar panels on Friday.
The 20 to 25 pound aluminum panel that fell on the train platform was among several hundred installed in 1978 for aesthetics and sound insulation — making it almost half a century old.
Jeffrey D. Gonneville, interim general manager of the MBTA, said during a Friday press conference that “preliminary observations” determined that the ceiling structure failed due to water corrosion, citing the “wet state that it had been in for a number of years.”
“Our initial findings show that over time water had accumulated in the panel insulation & corroded the metal rivets holding it in place,” the MBTA wrote in a tweet on Friday.
Gonneville added, however, that “MBTA third-party engineers performed a detailed safety inspection in 2021 of Harvard station and found no physical defects identified with these panels.”
The MBTA is inspecting similar insulation panels across its system and removing those that serve only an aesthetic purpose to give inspectors access to the ceiling space above, Gonneville said.
Gonneville reassured riders that the panels’ removal is not indicative of worsening structural integrity, but is necessary to ensure safety.
“Aesthetics are important, but the safety of these stations, the safety of the system, is of greater importance,” Gonneville said.
As of Friday afternoon, the MBTA removed about 10 panels from the Harvard Square station, according to Gonneville. He added that he hopes the audit will be completed in approximately two weeks.
This weekend, the MBTA also saw a shutdown of Red Line service between Harvard and JFK/UMass stations “to allow for work on the new signal system,” according to a service alert on their website. Shuttle buses replaced service, lining Mass Ave outside Wigglesworth Hall throughout the day. The shutdown will occur again from March 25 to 26.
A video of the falling panel barely missing a passerby received more than 100,000 views on Twitter.
The incident comes amid increased scrutiny of the MBTA, which has experienced significant problems over the past year, including a worker shortage, service cuts, growing slow zones, a monthlong Orange Line shutdown, and the consequences of its aging infrastructure.
Massachusetts State Senator John F. Keenan ’86 wrote in a Tweet that this incident is just one of many over the last year that have undermined trust in the MBTA.
“Broken doors. Broken escalators. Broken stairs. A train on fire. Tragic deaths. Now this,” Keenan wrote. “How can I keep reassuring people that the T is safe?”
—Staff writer Dylan H. Phan can be reached at dylan.phan@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @dylanhieuphan.
—Staff writer Jack R. Trapanick can be reached at jack.trapanick@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @jackrtrapanick.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
More than 40 Harvard affiliates gathered on the steps of Memorial Church on Sunday evening for a vigil to mourn the deaths of Palestinians in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
Organized by members of the Harvard College Palestine Solidarity Committee, the candlelit vigil comes roughly two weeks after a Feb. 22 Israeli Defense Forces raid in Nablus — a city in the West Bank — that killed 11 Palestinians and wounded more than 100.
During the vigil, attendees stood in a circle as they shared their personal reasons for mourning. Afterward, an organizer read out the names of some of the Palestinians killed in attacks in January, leaving a moment of silence after each name.
Joshua D. Willcox ’23-’24, a PSC member who spoke at the vigil, said in an interview that he helped organize the vigil to honor the Palestinian lives lost to what he described as “an apartheid regime.”
“The massacre of those 11 Palestinians was particularly horrific,” Willcox said. “But it’s almost a Palestinian being shot every day.”
“It should be a vigil every day,” Willcox added.
Nadine S. Bahour ’22, former co-president of the PSC, said she found it “striking” and “heartwarming” to hear attendees’ different backgrounds and reasons for coming to the vigil.
“It was also very heartwarming to see alumni from over 10 years ago come and share that this is something that they couldn’t speak about — and no one dared speak about — at Harvard when they were students, and that now, this is something that we can do,” Bahour said.
Willcox called on Harvard leadership to make a statement against Israel’s presence in Palestine, rather than what he called “the usual pathetic weak stance that they take.”
“People don’t want an expression of dismay at lives lost. That’s what people suffering under this violence have heard for far too long — ‘We’re sorry,’ ‘This is a bad event,’ and ‘This is disgraceful’ or whatever — and then they do nothing,” Willcox said.
Bahour added that she believes Harvard has an “obligation to take an action” and “divest from Israeli apartheid.”
Harvard spokesperson Jason A. Newton declined to comment on student criticisms at the vigil.
University President Lawrence S. Bacow will travel to Israel, Palestine, and Jordan later this month for one of his final international trips as Harvard’s president.
Bahour said she hopes the vigil demonstrated to Palestinian students that they are supported on campus and inspires students who attended to take action.
“So many of the speakers were talking about hope and about doing something,” Bahour said. “Every Harvard student should be doing something, and if they needed a reminder — which they shouldn’t — but this is it.”
Willcox called on Harvard affiliates to act in solidarity by flying the Palestinian flag “at Harvard and across the world” and honoring those who have died in the conflict.
“Palestinians living under apartheid do not attend Harvard, live in the United States, or reap the necessary freedom and platform which follows,” Willcox said. “We do — some of us do — and solidarity means recognizing and acting upon those facts, upon our freedoms and our platforms.”
—Staff writer Joyce E. Kim can be reached at joyce.kim@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Flyby's long awaited Housing Market 2023 is here!
3/6: Flyby’s annual Housing Market Feature has finally arrived! Kick off one of Harvard’s favorite traditions by reading all about The Quad, home to spacious rooms, unique amenities, and just straight up impeccable ~vibes~.
3/7: For Day 2 of Housing Market, Flyby proudly presents River East! Whether it be gorgeous river views from high up in the towers or the loud house pride and spirit, there’s definitely something for everyone right along the Charles.
3/8: Up next on our Housing Market Feature, Flyby presents River West! With fancy House events, scenic courtyard views, and an envious list of famous alumni, you’ll definitely have the proof to back up your chants of “River West, River Best!”.
3/9: For the last day of our Housing Market, Flyby presents River Central!  Living in Lowell, Quincy or Adams will have you flexing your close proximity to the Yard, all of your classes and the many places to stop and snack in the Square!
Sections
Cabot House does Quad life best: singles bigger than other Houses’ doubles, an underground tunnel system, and best of all, escape from the Harvard tourists. Cabot students truly live the best of both worlds.
“Our motto is Semper Cor, which is Latin for always heart,” House Committee Co-Chair Evans A. Berreondo Giron ’22 says, highlighting Cabot’s emphasis on cultural inclusivity and creating spaces for everyone. The Cabot community really does the most to make everyone feel at home, especially for freshmen who may not be the most enthusiastic about the Quad. “It’s far from the other River Houses… but the caveat to that is that the Quad community as a whole, among the three Houses, is so strong,” adds fellow Co-Chair Isabel Dierson ’22. With no tourists around and lots of puppies on the lawn, the Cabot community really has its own space to thrive.
Cabot is home to various fun events throughout the year which are meant to foster community. Festivus, the annual winter holiday party, is a chance for everyone to come together to show off their unique talents and burn their grievances away to start the new year fresh. Who doesn’t love a good fire to burn the negative energy away? Berreondo Giron highlighted two other major traditions: Cabot Culinaries, in which students come together monthly to cook and share meals in a family-style dinner, and Cabot Formal Hall, during which students dress up for fancy dinners according to a theme. In another Cabot tradition, Dutch Auction, Cabot residents can auction off objects or services, like doing someone’s laundry for a month.
If you somehow can’t find a Cabot event that you enjoy (though we doubt it), then you have the freedom to host your own! Even with set in place Cabot traditions, there’s always room to introduce new events. The Rakesh Grant (name possibly in flux after the Khuranas stepped down as faculty deans) allows any Cabot student to put in an application for their own event and receive funding for it, from chocolate tastings to a Bachelor viewing party. And recently, the Faculty Deans started a tradition of placing ice lanterns around the lawn, making trips to the Dhall even more magical. “[Student freedom] is the theme of Cabot,” Dierson explains. “It’s our House, it’s the Resident Deans’ Houses, it’s all of our Houses.”
Despite the current virtual barriers, Cabot has tried its best to maintain a close-knit community. This year, the House has thrown plenty of virtual steins, giving students $20 to buy the food and drinks of their choice. Cabot HoCo has also been actively sending merch and hosting virtual meetings to allow new and old members to meet. Wellness committees on HoCo lead meditation sessions, and a Cabot Strava account has been keeping the community connected through group exercise challenges. But Cabot is mainly focused on catering to the needs and interests of its students: whatever you want to do, Cabot wants to make it happen — especially in this virtual environment.
If your freshman dorm has left you feeling a little claustrophobic, Cabot House is here to save the day. Berreondo Giron and Dierson excitedly shared that space has never been their worry — Dierson said that she can even do a cartwheel in her room! Cabot housing can be summed up in five words: big singles, really nice suites. Yes, even as a sophomore, you too can get a single. With room for 380 students, the small size makes for a tight-knit community that knows how to live it up.
Cabot House is also home to a dance studio, a music room, and of course, the Aquarium, so all your (post-Covid) party needs will be fully satisfied. And when you need a late-night bite, Cabot Cafe is open until 1 a.m. on most nights, so you can enjoy all the coffee and pastries you need. And while Cabot surrounds the Quad Lawn on all sides, most of its buildings are connected by an underground tunnel system — even on the coldest winter days, you can walk to the Dhall and back in your pajamas without ever having to face the snow. What more do you need?
Still need more info on Cabot? We’ve got you covered. Berreondo Giron and Dierson were eager to share their love for their House:
What is the biggest misconception about Cabot House?
EBG: That it’s far from the Yard, it literally is not far. That’s the best part of my morning, just walking and listening to my music, that’s the only way I can actually wake up.
ID: It’s this like, perceived distance… I love taking the bus, and I truly believe that the shuttle is super accessible. It just drops you right off at Johnston Gate. If you’re not a walker like Evans, you just take the shuttle and it drops you off right there.
If you could describe your House as a HUDS dish, what would it be?
EBG: Red’s Best Catch, because we are the best.
ID: Oh, okay I like that. Yeah do that, Red’s Best Catch.
If you had to change one thing about your House, what would it be?
EBG: Nothing, Semper Cor, we’re perfect. That’s all we need.
ID: Honestly, nothing too… If I had to pick something more concrete, it’d be that initial feeling on Housing Day that a lot of freshmen sometimes have… I wish that just didn’t happen, because I think that if everyone just went into their Houses open-minded, you can discover if you do or do not actually like that community... But nothing about the House.
What is one thing you want freshmen to know about your House?
ID: I don’t know how to pick… I feel like my gut instinct goes to, I want them to know that Cabot, in my experience, is one of the most friendly and most diverse and lovely communities on campus… You’d be hard pressed not to find your people/a home in the Cabot community.
EBG: I think I would want them to know that we really want Cabot to be like a second home to everyone, a home away from home. Whatever they want to do with the House, it’s their House... If they want to make new traditions, we’re totally down for that too… Every freshman who gets Cabot should deem themselves lucky.
Read our overviews of the other Houses here!
Sections
Most Harvard students cherish any chance to devour some delicious food, and Currier is greatly praised for its high-quality food. In addition to great dhall meals, every semester, Currier has lots of special dinners. The most special is the Audrey Bruce dinner, a huge gathering in honor of the House’s namesake, Audrey Bruce Currier ’56.
To make your dining experience even better, Currier has a sea of friendly faces to enjoy a meal with, even those that aren’t students. House Committee chair Chibuikem C. Uche ’24 described the faculty deans and tutors as super kind and extremely supportive of students. Co-chair Samantha R. Vitale ’25 agreed, claiming that “they’re very easily accessible, whether you see them in the dhall or just look up their email. It’s just great to talk with them, whether it’s about school or just chatting about life.”
With amazing House staff, it’s no surprise that Currier also hosts a number of social events. The Currier “Ten-Man” suite is a popular space that hosts memorable parties throughout the year. It’s truly a sight to see with 10 singles and a personal elevator that opens directly in the middle of the largest private common room on campus. Additionally, students enjoy other events like Heaven and Hell — a highly anticipated, annual Halloween party — and Currioke (Currier karaoke!). Students also have a number of watch parties in the Fishbowl, a space with a theater-like setup where crowds gather and go wild watching movies, the World Cup, the Super Bowl, cheesy reality TV shows — you name it.
Vitale is grateful for the Quad as a whole. “Everyone from the Quad is so tight, and I feel like you don’t really get the larger, three-house community in much of the River Houses, as you do in the Quad,” she says.
“You will find your people there,” Vitale adds.
It’s safe to say that most freshmen partaking in the housing lottery are eager to upgrade to a spacious single. You might want to put Currier on that manifest list because it has the largest singles on campus. Here’s the layout: the House consists of the four towers Tuchman, Gilbert, Bingham, and Daniels, with Daniels being where most sophomores reside. The dining hall is situated right in the center of the House, and Uche considers it a great place to hang out. He says, “Currier dhall is my comfort spot where I know that no matter what day I had, no matter how things are going for me, I can always go in there, and instantly my mood changes 180,” he says. The other main spaces are quite close by, with the Fishbowl right across from the dining hall, and the Treehouse, another common space that is frequented for parties, just down the hallway. Everything being in such close proximity makes it so that people get to see familiar faces all the time, which, again, contributes to the familial feel of Currier.
Moreover, Currier boasts specialized spaces like a dance studio, relaxation room, fitness area, poker room, and music rooms. Students can get a change of scenery by leaving their dorm rooms to spend time in one of the many lounges that have flat screen TVs, tables and chairs to study, and sofas to relax and snooze on without a care in the world. Whenever students have an inkling to cook or bake, they have access to numerous kitchens containing large refrigerators, stoves, ovens, microwaves, and big storage cabinets.
Now, for the inside scoop on life in Currier, I asked the HoCo chairs all about the place they call home.
If you could describe your House with a HUDS dish, what would it be?
SRV: The Jalapeno Mac and Cheese.
CCU: We’re really sweet, but we’ve got a kick. We’re a really cool House. We have a lot of fun things, so that makes perfect sense.
What is one thing that you want freshmen to know about your House?
SRV: Getting Quadded is not the horrible thing that every single person thinks it is. If I’m going to be completely honest, the only negative is the walk there. You have the shuttles that take you to the Yard almost instantly. I feel like if you’re walking from the science-y area, like the Science Center or Northwest, it’s actually a shorter walk than Mather.
CCU: We get to go to Porter. We get to go to Davis Square. We get to see a lot of different parts of Cambridge and the area that you don’t really get to see, and it’s like you get to live the best of both worlds.
If you had to describe your House in 3 words, what would they be?
SRV: Home, friends, and I want to stray away from the word “community,” so I’m gonna say best.
CCU: Family, 0pportunity, unique. It’s one of a kind for me. It’s something about Currier, I keep going back to. It’s like for me and Jefe’s. Like, after my first bite, I have to keep going back, and I can’t stop. I just love the House, and it’s just so different.
Sections
Pforzheimer House is really as wholesome as they come. Pfoho residents feel at home in their double-decker dining hall and enjoy the benefits of disconnecting from the bustling area of the Yard in favor of the Quad’s peaceful, suburban location. The Pfoho community is pretty spoiled by all of the wondrous House amenities. From the spa’s massage chairs (known as the spfa) to the Pfart studio and quaint Pflibrary, Pfoho residents basically only have to leave the House for class. That even includes late night snacks runs: Conveniently, the notorious Quad Grille is inside of Pfoho’s very own junior common room. And did I mention the arcade? With hundreds of games, multiple gaming consoles, an air hockey table, and glow in the dark lighting, the Pfarcade functions as the perfect place to meet new friends and unwind from the stresses of the day. Lastly, the latest addition to the House comes in the form of the Pfaquarium, a cozy study spot situated next to a large fish tank.
Aside from super impressive amenities, Pfoho hosts a variety of House events. Residents greatly anticipate Sunday nights in their House, when “Hygge” takes place. Hygge is a living room get-together with warm donuts and apple cider by a wood-burning fireplace — talk about community bonding. Another exciting event is Camp Pfoho, the sophomore orientation event where newly quadded polar bears can meet fellow housemates and soak up the last days of summer while swimming and playing beach volleyball at a nearby retreat center.
HoCo Co-Chairs Michael J. Mantello ’24 and Jane J. Oh ’24 both believe the Pfamily is truly something special. The two credit outgoing House Deans Anne Harrington ’82 and John Durant for cultivating such a caring and tight-knit space. “The community that [Anne] has fostered over the last ten years will be her legacy. She really made this House a home,” Mantello said. While the next Resident Dean may have some big shoes to fill, the Pfamily is very excited for the next chapter for their Pfhome.
Pfoho is sure to impress with its lovely suites and roomy set-ups. N+1 housing is somewhat of a rarity on Harvard’s campus, but in Pfoho, you are very likely to enjoy a suite of these sorts. In addition to these suites, Pfoho is home to various hallway singles and even apartment-style living. Pfoho’s five main buildings — Comstock, Holmes, Moors, Wolbach, and the Jordans — provide a realm of housing possibilities for you and your blocking group. For instance, Pfoho’s legendary Belltower Suite holds four singles, a common room, and even a kitchen (!!!). Now that’s what we call housing!


If you had to describe your House as a HUDs meal, what would it be? 
MJM: *insert your favorite HUDs meal here*
JJO: Low key I would say New England Clam chowder <3
What is one misconception about your House? 
JJO: I think [people] should want the Quad.
MJM: Emphasis on the should. Definitely.
Is there anything you would change about your House?
JJO: No, not at all… I love Pfoho!
MMO: If I could change one thing, I would want the stigma to go away… almost everyone I know will come to love [Pfoho]... change everyone else – we’re fine. Change the River.
If you had to describe your House in 3 words what would they be?
JJO: Lots of pflove
Any cute pets in the House? 
MJM: Bluey! We have “pawfice” hours where you can just go into the dhall and hang out with the dog.
JJO: We also have bees… there’s that… I think they are pretty cute.
Do you have any famous alumni?
MJM & JJO: Mark Zuckerberg met his wife… in the Pfoho Bell Tower at a party. The Winklevoss twins were in Pfoho.
