More than 1,400 people have signed a petition calling on Securitas to continue the employment of Mike Grant, a security guard at Leverett House, one of Harvard’s undergraduate residences.
After a disagreement with Leverett Building Manager Mohamed Zaker in late April, Grant stood at a disciplinary hearing on May 5. Grant, an employee of Securitas — an international security services firm which employs security guards at Harvard — answered questions from Securitas area managers Alonzo B. Herring and Angela Kinyua during the hearing.
“They came from every angle they could to find just cause to terminate Mike Grant but Mike has a chance to beat it but has to be careful,” Grant’s union shop steward Michael A. Nowiszewski wrote in a statement.
The petition states that Grant is “a boon to the community” and did “nothing wrong,” citing an article published in The Crimson’s Fifteen Minutes magazine about the appreciation students have for Grant and his kindness.
“We stand together in support of an inclusive and kind community at Harvard, that should not tolerate abuse of third party contractors, no matter who their boss is,” the petition reads.
Securitas did not respond to multiple requests for comment, and Harvard spokesperson Jason A. Newton declined to comment on Grant’s case.
Grant is awaiting a decision on his case.
On Friday, April 28, Leverett residents Jack R. Walker ’24 and Hayden Teeter ’24 wanted to have a barbecue in the House courtyard.
After receiving permission from Grant, Walker took their grill out of storage and began to set it up.
Grant then got a call from Zaker, the Leverett building manager, instructing him to tell the students they are not allowed to grill on Leverett property. According to Grant, Zaker told him the Leverett faculty deans did not want the students to use the grill. Teeter and Walker offered to move the barbecue to the river, where they would no longer be on Leverett property. Grant agreed.
Zaker denies telling Grant the faculty deans did not want the students to use the grill but said he instructed Grant to call the tutor on call, who makes decisions about whether students can hold events. Grant did not call.
According to Grant, Zaker then told him a second time that the students cannot use the grill anywhere because Zaker said the grill belongs to Leverett and cannot leave the House grounds. Zaker then told him to put the grill in storage, saying he didn’t want the students to start the fire in the courtyard.
Because the grill was outside last year and taken into storage, Zaker said he assumed it was used for Leverett’s House Committee, adding that he instructed Grant to tell the students to check with him the following Monday.
“So I went over and said, ‘Hey guys, unfortunately you won’t be able to use it at all. You know, the faculty dean and the building manager are insisting that I take it and put it into storage,’” Grant recalled.
Walker and Teeter explained to Grant that it was not, in fact, a Leverett grill. Walker had purchased the grill one year prior and showed Grant a purchase receipt on his phone.
“So I call [Zaker] back and I say, ‘Hey, the students actually have a receipt for the grill. It’s actually their grill,’” Grant said. “I said, ‘I actually do remember the student had the grill last year and it was put into storage.’”
According to Grant, Zaker then insisted the grill belongs to Leverett and that the students were lying. The two got into an argument over the phone and at one point, Zaker said, “What do I even have you there for if you can’t even do your job? This is why you’re a guard. This is why you’re just a guard,” according to Grant.
Grant provided a similar report of events to Securitas Account Manager for the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Robert M. Sabater, according to documents obtained by The Crimson.
Grant insisted he could not take the grill from Walker and Teeter.
“If I did take the grill, oh yeah I’d be out of here,” Grant said. “They would have sent me home that same day. And nobody would have ever seen me or heard about me again.”
Zaker said he told Grant that if the grill was not Leverett’s, the students could not store it in the house.
Zaker said he then instructed another Leverett employee, custodian Ever W. Martinez, to take the grill from the students, but Martinez decided not to confiscate the grill after seeing Walker’s receipt, according to Walker and Teeter.
Grant and Zaker then spoke on the phone for a third time, getting into another heated argument during which Grant said he told Zaker, “I don’t appreciate your tone of voice or the way you’re trying to belittle me.”
Zaker said Grant “raised his voice and was aggravated.”
“I don’t want any altercations. I don’t like confrontation,” Grant said. After hearing people laugh on Zaker’s side, Grant hung up.
“From a student perspective, he was doing what he should. One, not taking the grill from people who actually owned it and two, not raising his voice,” Walker said.
Walker and Teeter kept the grill and went to the river as they had originally agreed to do.
Leverett Faculty Deans Daniel G. Deschler and Eileen E. Reynolds ’86 wrote a joint email to Walker later that day about what they described as a “misunderstanding today concerning Grilling In the Leverett Courtyards.”
“When informed of this occurring today, we asked that you be informed that it was not allowed and to relocate if you wished to grill,” they wrote. “We did not ask that your grill be confiscated. We apologize for this misunderstanding and will speak with involved parties.”
Harvard spokesperson Jonathan Palumbo wrote in an email to The Crimson that the deans did not have a comment on Grant’s situation.
That same day, Grant wrote an email to Leverett faculty deans about what had happened, while Zaker contacted Grant’s supervisor, Sabater. Grant was then informed of a disciplinary hearing scheduled for May 5 at Securitas’ Cambridge office.
While Grant had called the union that represents Securitas guards, Service Employees International Union Local 32BJ, he said they told him a representative could not attend the meeting with him on such short notice. Instead, union shop steward Michael Nowiszewski went with Grant to his May 5 meeting.
“The union has literally done nothing for him to date despite him asking for their help,” Nowiszewski wrote in a statement.
Frank Soults, the spokesperson for 32BJ SEIU, and Roxana Rivera, assistant to the 32BJ SEIU president, did not respond to a request for comment about the union’s response.
At the meeting with area managers Herring and Kinyua, Grant said Securitas managers looked at his incident report and tried to “pick it apart and find any and every little thing that they can possibly use against me. ‘Oh did you say this? Oh you said this? Did you disrespect him?’”
“Our Human Resources Department, they don’t back us,” Grant said. “Their main priority is, ‘Harvard is our client and we’re going to do everything in our power to make Harvard happy.’”
Harvard contracts security guards through Securitas, a third-party contractor. 32BJ SEIU negotiates directly with Harvard, although Securitas employs individual guards.
Neither Herring, Kinyua, nor Securitas Area Vice President for Harvard Christopher Connolly responded to repeated requests for comment for this article.
According to Nowiszewski, the co-employer relationship makes it difficult for guards to know whether they should listen to managers from Harvard or Securitas.
“It’s stressful to walk a tight rope between ‘do they like me?’ and doing what 12+ bosses with competing incentives above you want done simultaneously at the houses,” Nowiszewski wrote. “Who is the employer? Who is the boss?”
On May 3, Walker wrote to Leverett administrators about a number of grievances with Leverett management, including the incident involving their grill.
A week later, Harvard Associate Director of Residential Facilities Nancy Hodge wrote that “while I am not able to share information about the specific HR processes that we follow, I can let you know that I have worked with Mohamed to understand more thoroughly what happened in each of the instances you mentioned below, and to identify ways to improve the communication and processes where necessary.”
Since the May 5 meeting, Grant has not been contacted by Securitas about the status of his case or whether he will retain employment. Both Grant and Nowiszewski said his job is still at risk.
In a May 7 email to Leverett residents, Deschler and Reynolds wrote that they “have been reassured that Mike’s job is not at risk because of the incident.”
Grant, however, wrote in a May 18 email to The Crimson that his current status is uncertain and that it “seems likely” that Securitas will wait until Commencement before acting.
“Once the students have departed, there is a possibility that they will attempt to relocate me to a different site, potentially outside of Harvard,” he wrote.
Regardless of the outcome of his case, Grant said he felt overwhelmed by “the love and support” that he has received from students.
“I’m just so thankful, regardless of which way this goes,” Grant said. “I truly have so much love in my heart for these students.”
—Staff writer Cam E. Kettles can be reached at cam.kettles@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @cam_kettles.
News
More Than 70 Harvard Students Call for Academy of Arts and Sciences to Review Comaroff’s Membership
News
Harvard Lifted Sanctions on Epstein-Associated Professor Martin Nowak in March
News
More than 1,400 Sign Petition Supporting Harvard Security Guard Mike Grant Following Leverett Dispute
News
Penny Pritzker ’81 Among Eight Harvard Affiliates Sanctioned by Russian Government
News
More Than Three-Quarters of Surveyed Harvard Faculty Identify As Liberal
The Harvard College Honor Council reviewed 100 academic dishonesty cases in the 2021-22 school year, 12 of which resulted in withdrawals, according to a report released this semester.
The number reflects a marked drop from the 2020-21 academic year, during which the Council heard 138 cases and forced 27 students to withdraw, the highest number of cases and withdrawals since the Honor Council came into effect in 2015.
Students who are forced to withdraw are typically required to work in a full-time, paid, non-academic job for more than six months before petitioning to return to the College. This withdrawal normally lasts for one to two academic years.
The Honor Council is chaired by Dean of the College Dean Rakesh Khurana and consists of 24 voting members, including undergraduate students, teaching fellows, faculty members, and administrators. The body is responsible for adjudicating cases of suspected academic dishonesty across the College.
Of the 100 cases, 42 concerned instances of plagiarism, 35 were exam cheating, and 15 were inappropriate collaboration. Three cases involved “lying to a University officer,” and one case involved “misuse of sources.”
In addition to the 12 forced withdrawals, 34 students were placed on probation, a notice that further academic misconduct will lead to more serious repercussions. Twenty students were admonished, a result similar to probation but that does not change a student’s “in good standing” status.
Four students received local sanctions, where the course instructor determines the student’s punishment, which can range from a grade penalty to mandatory tutoring.
In 30 cases, it was found that either no violation occurred or the allegation could not be substantiated.
For the sixth consecutive year, the majority of cases — 63 percent — involved freshmen, who “continue to be significantly overrepresented” in hearings, according to the report.
Previous Honor Council reports have identified this pattern and cited it as a reason the body commits additional resources toward outreach and trainings for freshmen.
“Early in their academic careers, students are more likely to be in large courses, trying out difficult or new material while at the same time they are adjusting to college and Yard and House life,” the Honor Council’s 2019-20 report read.
Of the remaining cases in the 2021-22 year, 19 percent involved sophomores, 11 percent juniors, and 6 percent seniors. The majority of cases were referred to the Council by courses in the Sciences Division and School of Engineering and Applied Sciences.
The report does not speculate on potential reasons for the overrepresentation of freshmen and students enrolled in STEM classes. Harvard College spokesperson Jonathan Palumbo declined to comment on the report beyond reiterating the College’s commitment to transparency.
The 2019-20 report wrote that the overrepresentation of STEM cases “is not an exception from other universities,” noting a higher prevalence of graded assignments and the use of software to detect plagiarism in computer programs.
“Both the cause and the effect of this disparity should continue to be the focus of discussion among the faculty, students, and community at large,” the report continued.
—Staff writer J. Sellers Hill can be reached at sellers.hill@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @SellersHill.
—Staff writer Nia L. Orakwue can be reached at nia.orakwue@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @nia_orakwue.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
More than 77 percent of surveyed Harvard faculty identified as either “very liberal” or “liberal” in The Crimson’s annual survey of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences.
Just under 32 percent of faculty respondents said they were “very liberal.” Approximately 45 percent of respondents identified as “liberal,” 20 percent as “moderate,” more than 2 percent as “conservative,” and less than 1 percent as “very conservative.”
These results largely track with last year’s results of The Crimson’s faculty survey, where more than 80 percent of respondents said they identified as liberal, with only 1 percent identifying as conservative.
The Crimson distributed its survey to more than 1,300 members of the FAS and the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, including tenured and tenure-track professors, non-tenure-track lecturers, and preceptors. The survey collected demographic information and opinions on a range of topics, including Harvard’s academic atmosphere, life as a professor, and political issues.
The anonymous 124-question survey received 386 responses, including 234 fully-completed responses and 152 partially-completed responses. It was open to new responses between March 23 and April 14. Responses were not adjusted for selection bias.
The first installment of The Crimson’s faculty survey covered respondents’ views on the controversy surrounding accusations of harassment against professor John L. Comaroff and Harvard’s Title IX policies. The second installment concerned respondents’ opinions on top Harvard administrators including outgoing University President Lawrence S. Bacow and incoming president Claudine Gay.
This third installment explores faculty respondents’ political views on a range of issues, including academic freedom, race-conscious admissions policies, and more.
FAS spokesperson Anna G. Cowenhoven declined to comment for this article.
Almost 76 percent of surveyed faculty said they believe that academic freedom is under threat in America, with just over 11 percent disagreeing. A majority — approximately 52 percent— of surveyed ladder faculty said they “strongly agree” that academic freedom is under threat, compared to approximately 27 percent of non-ladder faculty.
More than 61 percent of surveyed faculty said Harvard emphasizes academic freedom just enough, with more than 36 percent saying it merits greater emphasis.
In a free-response question asking what they believed were the strongest threats to academic freedom right now, several faculty referenced right-wing political movements and figures.
“MAGA-inspired parents and politicians who want to ban books, restrict syllabi, revoke tenure, and destroy education more than they have,” one member wrote.
Still, not all faculty said that the threat came from the political right.
One faculty member cited “Woke-crazed students and cancel culture.” Another member wrote about the “lack of tolerance for diverging political views, especially more moderate or conservative leaning opinions.”
Approximately 57 percent of faculty respondents said they agreed that Harvard should give controversial speakers a platform, even when many faculty or students object to their views. More than 20 percent disagreed.
In a free-response question about how Harvard ought to promote free speech, some faculty called on the school to sign the “Chicago Statement,” a free speech policy statement developed at the University of Chicago and signed by nearly 100 schools, including Princeton University and MIT.
As many legal scholars expect the Supreme Court to strike down race-based affirmative action this summer, surveyed faculty overwhelmingly backed race-conscious admissions policies.
Just over 76 percent of surveyed faculty said they strongly or somewhat agreed with Harvard’s defense of race-conscious admissions policies, with approximately 9 percent disagreeing.
A plurality of surveyed faculty — more than 44 percent — also somewhat or strongly disagreed with the Court’s decision to take up the case. Nearly 19 percent agreed with the decision.
In an open-response question, some faculty members took aim at legacy admissions, with one faculty member writing, “We need to keep affirmative action, but question both legacy admissions and athletic admissions policies.”
Still, some faculty members remained concerned over the impact that College’s admissions policies’ could have on Asian American applicants.
“Some of the evidence presented about Harvard’s discrimination against Asian and Asian-American students has made me very sad and upset, and has also been extremely harmful to the cause of supporting diversity-promoting admissions policies,” one member wrote.
More broadly, just over 50 percent said Harvard emphasizes diversity, inclusion, and belonging just enough, with approximately 20 percent saying it does so too much and approximately 29 percent saying it does so too little.
In recent years, Harvard has seen a wave of student activism related to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, caste discrimination, and Harvard’s investments in the fossil fuel and prison industries.
A majority of faculty — more than 57 percent — said they would not characterize their views as either pro-Israel or pro-Palestine, with approximately 10 percent saying they are more pro-Israel and more than 32 percent saying they are more pro-Palestine. Nonetheless, more than 77 percent of faculty said the University should not provide more support for pro-Israel or pro-Palestine causes.
Approximately 61 percent of surveyed faculty said they believed that Harvard should follow Brown University in banning caste discrimination, with just under 4 percent disagreeing.
Nearly two years after Harvard announced it would let its investments in fossil fuels expire, only about 15 percent of surveyed faculty said they agree that the University is doing enough to fight climate change, while nearly 59 percent of respondents said they disagreed.
Faculty respondents generally supported the move to divest from fossil fuels, while some called for faster action in an open-response question.
“Do more and hurry it up,” one faculty member wrote, with another writing that “divesting fossil fuels should move faster.”
Harvard still maintains investments in companies tied to the prison industry, long a point of contention for activists. Just under three-fourths of surveyed faculty said they felt Harvard should divest from prisons, with approximately 8 percent saying it should not.
The Crimson’s annual faculty survey for 2023 was conducted via Qualtrics, an online survey platform. The survey was open from March 23, 2023, to April 14, 2023.
A link to the anonymous survey was sent to 1,310 FAS and SEAS faculty members through emails sourced in February 2021 from Harvard directory information and updated in subsequent years. The pool included individuals on Harvard’s Connections database with FAS affiliations, including tenured, tenure-track, and non-tenure-track faculty.
In total, 386 faculty replied, with 234 filling the survey completely and 152 partially completing the survey.
To check for response bias, The Crimson compared respondents’ self-reported demographic data with publicly available data on FAS faculty demographics for the 2021-22 academic year. Survey respondents’ demographic data generally match these publicly available data.
In The Crimson’s survey, 47 percent of respondents identified themselves as male and 45 percent as female, with 2 percent selecting “genderqueer/non-binary,” 1 percent for “other,” and 5 percent for “prefer not to say.” According to the Faculty of Arts and Sciences’ 2022 Report, 39 percent of FAS faculty as a whole are female.
53 percent of respondents to The Crimson’s survey were tenured or tenure-track faculty and 47 percent were non-tenure-track faculty. According to the FAS data, 58 percent of faculty are tenure-track and 38 percent are non-tenure-track.
31 percent of survey respondents reported their ethnic or racial background as something other than white or Caucasian, with 9 percent opting not to report their race. According to the FAS data, 27 percent of faculty are non-white.
—Staff writer Rahem D. Hamid can be reached at rahem.hamid@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Elias J. Schisgall can be reached at elias.schisgall@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @eschisgall.
News
Harvard Lifted Sanctions on Epstein-Associated Professor Martin Nowak in March
News
More than 1,400 Sign Petition Supporting Harvard Security Guard Mike Grant Following Leverett Dispute
News
Penny Pritzker ’81 Among Eight Harvard Affiliates Sanctioned by Russian Government
News
More Than Three-Quarters of Surveyed Harvard Faculty Identify As Liberal
News
Pass the Pita: Cava Makes Harvard Square Debut
Martin A. Nowak, the Harvard professor sanctioned in 2021 for his association with sex trafficker Jeffrey E. Epstein, had all his advising and research privileges restored in March, a faculty department chair confirmed last week.
Professor Scott V. Edwards ’86, who chairs Harvard’s Organismic and Evolutionary Biology Department, said in an interview that he and Mathematics Department chair Michael J. Hopkins had been directed by Dean of Science Christopher W. Stubbs to “welcome Dr. Nowak back to our respective departments.”
“I don’t remember the details, but essentially all sanctions have been lifted,” he said.
Edwards said he understood Nowak to be subject to “mild check-ins,” but did not know any more specifics. He said he did not know if the decision had been made by Stubbs or Claudine Gay, dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences and President-elect.
FAS spokesperson Rachael Dane and University spokesperson Jason A. Newton declined to comment for this article. Nowak also declined to comment.
In 2020, a University report on Harvard’s relationship with Epstein found close ties between Epstein and Nowak, a Math and Biology professor, prompting Gay to put Nowak on paid administrative leave.
In March 2021, Gay shut down the Nowak-directed Program for Evolutionary Dynamics — which had received substantial financial support from Epstein — and barred Nowak from accepting new advisees or serving as the principal investigator on any new grants or contracts.
She said at the time that she would decide whether to lift the sanctions after two years. In addition to Edwards, two other faculty members said they believed the sanctions were lifted this semester.
Edwards said Nowak had “very little communication” with others in the OEB department before the sanctions were lifted.
“We’re glad to have him back,” he added.
According to Harvard’s 2020 report on its ties to Epstein, the sex trafficker donated $6.5 million to Harvard to establish the PED, led by Nowak, in 2003. Following Epstein’s 2008 conviction for soliciting a minor for prostitution, he may have visited the PED office at One Brattle Square more than 40 times through 2018, the report noted.
The report revealed that PED maintained an office for Epstein, known as “Jeffrey’s Office,” and gave him unfettered access to the facility, in what Gay later determined to be a violation of Harvard’s policies on campus access.
“Epstein was routinely accompanied on these visits by young women, described as being in their 20s, who acted as his assistants,” the report said.
The report does not detail who was present at the meetings, describing them as simply “leading scholars from Harvard and elsewhere in science and math and, occasionally, individuals involved in public life.”
A Wall Street Journal investigation last month found that Epstein previously had an unreported meeting with Nowak and renowned linguist Noam Chomsky, along with other Harvard faculty, in March 2015 at the PED office.
The Journal later reported that former University President Lawrence H. Summers met repeatedly with Epstein and in 2014, solicited donations from Epstein on behalf of Summers’ wife, Harvard English professor Elisa F. New. Summers, who was in office when the PED was established in 2003, stepped down from the presidency in 2006, prior to Epstein’s first conviction.
In a footnote, the report briefly mentions a $110,000 donation that Gratitude America, Ltd., a charity connected to Epstein, made to New’s nonprofit, though adds that the review did not explore this further as this was not a gift to Harvard itself. Of Summers, the report only notes that he established the PED.
Harvard Law School professor Lawrence Lessig said in an interview he felt Nowak was “scapegoated” by the report, which he said omitted the involvement of Summers, the “most important actor in the whole story.”
Lessig said Summers was crucial in developing Epstein’s ties with the University.
Nowak’s “institution had a relationship to Epstein because the administration told him he had to have one and he had to maintain it and he had to support it,” Lessig said.
“Martin is recruited to run the center, and it’s made clear from the very beginning Martin’s job in running the center is to continue to encourage the funding of its chief funder, which was Epstein,” he added.
“But for Larry Summers, it’s not even clear any of it would have happened,” Lessig said.
A spokesperson for Summers wrote that his involvement with the PED was entirely during his presidency and prior to Epstein’s arrest, and that Harvard’s gift procedures were followed.
—Staff writer Rahem D. Hamid can be reached at rahem.hamid@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Elias J. Schisgall can be reached at elias.schisgall@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @eschisgall.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
More Than 70 Harvard Students Call for Academy of Arts and Sciences to Review Comaroff’s Membership
News
Harvard Lifted Sanctions on Epstein-Associated Professor Martin Nowak in March
News
More than 1,400 Sign Petition Supporting Harvard Security Guard Mike Grant Following Leverett Dispute
News
Penny Pritzker ’81 Among Eight Harvard Affiliates Sanctioned by Russian Government
News
More Than Three-Quarters of Surveyed Harvard Faculty Identify As Liberal
The Russian government sanctioned Harvard Corporation Senior Fellow Penny S. Pritzker ’81 and seven other Harvard affiliates, the country’s ministry of foreign affairs announced in a Friday press release.
In addition to Pritzker, the Russian government sanctioned Corporation member Mariano-Florentino “Tino” Cuéllar ’93, Economics professor Jason Furman ’92, former Harvard Kennedy School Dean Joseph S. Nye, and four members of the Harvard Ukrainian Research Institute — Emily Channell-Justice, Volodymyr Dibrova, Lubomyr A. Hajda, and Tymish J. Holowinsky.
The eight Harvard affiliates are among nearly 500 American citizens who were blacklisted from entering Russia by the Russian foreign ministry on Friday. Several former senior American government officials were also sanctioned, including former President Barack Obama and former U.S. Ambassador to Ukraine Marie L. Yovanovitch.
A press release published in Russian stated that the sanctions were a “countermeasure” to sanctions imposed by the Biden administration on Russia after the country’s full-scale invasion of Ukraine last year.
Furman, who served as an economic adviser to Obama, said he learned of his inclusion on the list when The Crimson reached out to him for comment on Friday.
“My Ukrainian-born grandfather would be proud,” Furman wrote in a statement.
“I can’t wait to visit Russia again after they have withdrawn from Ukraine and [the] current autocratic regime is no longer in charge,” Furman wrote. “Until then any sanctions on me are irrelevant.”
Pritzker and Cuéllar, who are fellows of the University’s highest governing body, declined to comment through Harvard spokesperson Jonathan L. Swain.
Swain also declined to comment on the sanctions on behalf of the University.
Dibrova, a researcher at HURI and a Ukrainian language preceptor, also learned he was sanctioned by the Russian government when The Crimson reached out to him for comment.
Dibrova wrote in an emailed statement on Friday that he was “both surprised and flattered” to find himself in the “company of such worthy Americans.”
“There are several ways to handle this news,” he wrote. “We can joke about it, We can call it an act of insanity. Or we can think about a government for whom a language teacher in a foreign university could be a clear and present danger to their national security.”
Serhii Plokhy, a professor of Ukrainian history and the director of HURI, called the sanctions against four of the institute’s staffers a “bizarre action and a bizarre list.”
“The names of our Harvard colleagues on it remind us once again that Russia wages its war in Ukraine not only against the Ukrainian armed forces but also against Ukrainian history, identity and culture, and people who teach and study them,” Plokhy wrote in an email.
Channell-Justice, director of the Temerty Contemporary Ukraine Program at HURI, wrote in an email that she is honored to see her name “and the name of the Ukrainian Research Institute recognized at the same level as political leaders like Barack Obama and Ambassador Marie Yovanovitch.”
“The Russian Federation has used the tool of personal sanctions to publicly name people whom it considers threatening to the Russian narrative of its genocidal war in Ukraine,” she wrote.
Days after the start of Russia’s full-scale invasion, Channell-Justice spoke at a rally in Harvard Yard in support of Ukraine.
Holowinsky, executive director of HURI, wrote in an emailed statement that it was not “completely surprising” to find himself on the sanctions list.
“Apparently, the Institute’s mission to support scholarly research focusing on topics concerning Ukrainian history, literature, language, and contemporary society is viewed as a threat to Russia's foreign ministry,” Holowinsky wrote.
“I have no response to the Russian government,” he added.
—Staff writer Miles J. Herszenhorn can be reached at miles.herszenhorn@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @mherszenhorn.
—Staff writer Claire Yuan can be reached at claire.yuan@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @claireyuan33.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
More Than 70 Harvard Students Call for Academy of Arts and Sciences to Review Comaroff’s Membership
News
Harvard Lifted Sanctions on Epstein-Associated Professor Martin Nowak in March
News
More than 1,400 Sign Petition Supporting Harvard Security Guard Mike Grant Following Leverett Dispute
News
Penny Pritzker ’81 Among Eight Harvard Affiliates Sanctioned by Russian Government
News
More Than Three-Quarters of Surveyed Harvard Faculty Identify As Liberal
More than 70 Harvard students and three student groups called on the American Academy of Arts and Sciences to review Harvard professor John L. Comaroff’s membership in an open letter to the organization Saturday.
“Membership in the Academy of Arts and Sciences is a rare honor,” the letter states. “Professor John Comaroff’s repeated assaults on academic freedom, intellectual vitality, and a safe learning environment mean that he has failed to live up to the values and expectations of this position.”
Comaroff, a professor of African and African American Studies and Anthropology, was placed on unpaid administrative leave by Faculty of Arts and Sciences Dean Claudine Gay in 2022 after two University investigations found Comaroff in violation of the school’s sexual harassment and professional conduct policies.
The letter points to the Academy’s rules stating a professor may be removed from the academy following an “institutional triggering event,” meaning “the individual’s employer or a reputable third party” took action against the scholar in question, arguing Gay’s sanctions on Comaroff constituted a triggering event.
“Per AAAS procedures, wherein Harvard’s finding of culpability should trigger an automatic investigation by the Academy, we call for the Board and Membership Committee to take appropriate action quickly and transparently,” the letter reads.
The letter also references a federal lawsuit against Harvard filed by three female graduate Anthropology students claiming the University ignored years of harassment allegations against the professor.
Referring to accounts of harassment in the suit, which is awaiting trial, the letter states that “harassing or assaulting students represents a significant disruption to their education and freedom of inquiry.”
Comaroff’s lawyers have consistently denied all allegations of sexual harassment and professional retaliation.
“The letter to AAAS is another publicity stunt in a relentless campaign by a small group of protestors to smear Professor John Comaroff,” wrote Comaroff’s attorneys, Harvard Law School professor Janet E. Halley, Ruth K. O’Meara-Costello ’02, and Norman S. Zalkind.
“This campaign against Professor Comaroff, which eschews fairness and due process, is based on allegations that have been either rejected in a full investigation or that are completely untested, anonymous, and second-hand at best,” they added.
In a statement, Will M. Sutton ’23, who helped draft the letter, said he trusted the Academy to make the correct decision and declined to respond to “those who have no bearing on the Academy’s internal process.”
Alison Franklin, the Academy’s chief communications officer, confirmed the letter was received in an email. She declined to comment further, citing a policy that membership proceedings are confidential.
Saturday’s letter follows a wave of student activism surrounding Comaroff after he returned to campus in fall 2022 to teach an elective course. The campaign has largely been lead by anti-rape culture student activist group Our Harvard Can Do Better, which signed the letter.
Connor Chung ’23, who helped draft the letter, said professors like Comaroff “have spent decades using their power to stifle free speech and undermine survivors and whistleblowers.”
In an interview, Sutton said part of the intention was to help build a coalition against sexual harassment in academia.
“What really sets this action apart – even though it is obviously about John Comaroff – is that we’re really here looking for allies and looking to open a conversation about academic freedom and its intersections with sexual violence and power-based harassment,” he said.
—Staff writer Darley A. C. Boit can be reached at darley.boit@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Elias J. Schisgall can be reached at elias.schisgall@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @eschisgall.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
More Than 70 Harvard Students Call for Academy of Arts and Sciences to Review Comaroff’s Membership
News
Harvard Lifted Sanctions on Epstein-Associated Professor Martin Nowak in March
News
More Than 1,400 Sign Petition Supporting Harvard Security Guard Mike Grant Following Leverett Dispute
News
Penny Pritzker ’81 Among Eight Harvard Affiliates Sanctioned by Russian Government
News
More Than Three-Quarters of Surveyed Harvard Faculty Identify As Liberal
In the spring of 2011, graduating senior Kenzie Bok ’11, a former president of the Institute of Politics, Marshall Scholar, and lifelong Bostonian, reflected on the purpose of a Harvard education in a Crimson op-ed titled “Veritas and Us.”
“To respond to the freshman-year anxiety as to whether each of us ‘deserved’ to get into Harvard: I won’t know until I do something with it to serve others,” she wrote.
“So what kind of life should we lead?” Bok continued. “As I consider my own future, I wonder if I should spend my time shuttling between intellectual inquiry, political activity, and direct service, or try to settle on an intermediate location somewhere on the plane defined by those three points.”
Twelve years later, Bok is an outgoing Boston City Councilor, a recent lecturer on housing policy in Harvard’s Social Studies program, and an incoming head — or “Administrator” — of the Boston Housing Authority. In all these efforts, Bok seems to have kept the same spirit in her career of public service.
In an interview with The Crimson, Bok described the formative influence of her time at Harvard — both as a student and lecturer — on her career, including both her policy and her political philosophy.
After graduating from College, Bok went on to study intellectual history at the University of Cambridge. She began researching American political philosopher John Rawls while at Harvard, which would later give her the tools she said she now uses as a policymaker and administrator.
“A very simplistic way of talking about one of John Rawls’ core principles is the idea that when you’re doing policymaking, you should have an initial instinct of, ‘What’s the impact of this on the least well-off set of folks in the situation?’” Bok said. “There’s actually a ton of undergirding and thinking about why that should be your instinct.”
“That’s also a very useful mental tool when thinking about actual policy problems,” she added.
Following her time in England, Bok returned to Harvard for a program on housing at the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, before then becoming a lecturer on housing policy and political theory in the undergraduate Social Studies program.
In a class she taught about applying distributive justice — “who should get what and how, and what makes that fair and equal,” as Bok describes it — to housing, students analyzed existing housing policies for their final projects, which at one point were presented to members of the Boston Housing Authority itself.
The BHA, which Bok will lead after Boston Mayor Michelle Wu ’07 appointed her to the role in April, manages the city’s public housing stock and its housing voucher program while promoting fair housing throughout the city. At the time she was a Harvard lecturer, Bok also worked as a senior adviser to the BHA.
Bok often talked over policies she was implementing there to her class, particularly the values undergirding them.
“If it’s just like, ‘This person needs that thing,’ you might give everybody vouchers and let them end up wherever they want in the private market,” she said in reference to housing. “Which then might exclude areas — and you might be like, ‘That’s fine, because the people needed housing and they have a roof now, right?’”
“But if you’re actually like, ‘No, no, it’s actually very important to our democracy that people of different incomes be able to live among each other and participate in the same local political world,’ then you become more focused on ways that you’re going to actually anchor that housing subsidy in place so that people can stay in the community,” she continued.
As a result, Bok has worked on policies like adjusting payment maximums for housing vouchers to keep consistent with the average rent of the zip code they are used in.
Assessing the value of her time as a Harvard undergraduate, Bok said extracurricular involvement in the Harvard College Democrats, IOP — where as president she oversaw a student budget of $60,000 — and other clubs was “very good training” for life post-graduation.
“A thing that’s really parallel about undergraduate extracurricular activities and the campaign world is that you’re sort of forming a group of people and standing up a project that almost always is less than a year from start to completion,” Bok said.
Though she credits her time at Harvard for helping her to develop her professional skills, Bok cautioned students against overlooking their academic experience.
“What I always tell Harvard students is, ‘You’ll have your whole life to work, and you only have these years — and maybe a few more as I did — to really study,’” she said. “Make sure that you make time for the life of the mind.”
—Staff writer Jack R. Trapanick can be reached at jack.trapanick@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @jackrtrapanick.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
