News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Every other Thursday night in the spring, at approximately 9 p.m., Harvard Yard is struck by a joyful eruption of sound.
A lone baritone saxophonist plays the opening notes to the Budweiser jingle “Here Comes the King.” He is quickly joined by an assortment of other saxophones, trumpets, mellophones, flutes, and clarinets, and a sprinkling of snare and bass drums. The entourage moves from the Science Center Plaza to Massachusetts Avenue, filling the cavernous expanse of the Yard with thundering polyphony.
These magnetic, musical rumblings met me at my desk one fateful evening last November, drawing me out of my room. My memory of that night is a blur of detached moments: Racing down the stairs of Straus Hall, sprinting down a dark pathway, and trailing alongside the Harvard University Band as they marched on merrily through the night.
I wanted to know — I had to know — where they were going. I asked, and one of the percussionists told me to follow them back to the band room. So I tagged along, to a basement on Mount Auburn Street, moving forward in a state somewhere between walking and flying, floating on a sonic wave.
A lot of spaces on this campus require you to prove yourself before you can feel like you belong. It’s as if getting into Harvard wasn’t hard enough — we must also apply for some classes, endure a months-long process to join most clubs, and know the right people to be accepted into select social circles. Harvard is an institution of higher learning, but to succeed here, it often feels as though you need to already know everything there is to learn.
This paralyzing pressure vanishes at the door of 74 Mount Auburn St. My first night in the band room, I was met with the most welcoming reception I have received at this school: I left with a trumpet, a super suave blazer, and a plethora of new faces to wave hello to when walking around campus.
Granted, ‘playing’ in the band is a generous description of what I do as third trumpet; I still feel like a musical impostor at times. For one, consistently making a sound on the trumpet has only been a recent breakthrough for me. Despite years of piano lessons, my sheet music reading capabilities are abysmal, so on the off chance that I do produce a note, it’s usually the wrong one. During our gigs, 99 percent of the time I am not even remotely playing the correct tune.
But the amazing thing about the band is that none of that matters. My bandmates don’t mind that I entered their community on a whim, or that the first rehearsal I attended was also the first time I had ever touched a trumpet. They have taught me to play — one of my fellow trumpet players leads weekly sectionals to guide new players through the basics — all while fostering a community of radical acceptance, with weekly shoutouts and Starbursts on bus rides home from gigs.
Many of my peers arrive at Harvard having already mapped out their plans to join pre-professional clubs and apply for exclusive summer internships. They view their time here as transactional, treating Harvard as a stop along the way to great experiences rather than a great experience in itself.
My friends in the band have shown me a different perspective. They have taught me how to be spontaneous, seek out the novel and absurd, and linger just a little bit longer in the space between adolescence and adulthood.
The band’s unofficial motto is “illegitimi non carborundum,” mock Latin for “don’t let the bastards grind you down.” It’s printed on the back of our sweatshirts and written into an extra verse of the most recognizable fight song we play, “Ten Thousand Men of Harvard.” Every time I think of the three words of our motto, I smile, because they remind me to act without fear of judgment.
Even if you’ve never done something before, or if you’re not exactly sure how it will fit into your future, don’t be afraid to try it out. We have these four years to wander, searching for doors of opportunity cracked ajar — and the rest of our lives to figure out what we learned about ourselves from the things we discovered behind those doors.
The thought of joining a band in college had never once crossed my mind until I heard one outside my window. I still have many traditions to learn, and a basic level of proficiency in the trumpet to achieve, but for now, I will happily join my bandmates in tossing shoes and paper airplanes through the air at rehearsal, even if I don’t know what for.
I feel the same way today that I felt that first night I entered the band room — satisfied with tagging along for the ride, even if the destination isn’t always clear.
Violet T. M. Barron ’26, a Crimson Editorial editor, lives in Straus Hall.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Perhaps one of the most consistent and ubiquitous forms of oral human tradition is the humble proverb. These snippets of collective wisdom are found globally, thriving due to their naked simplicity in communication and comprehension. Folk sayings like “a watched pot never boils” are designed to convey moral lessons that are often too difficult or time-consuming to describe literally.
Given their nature as moral ZIP files, it would be natural to assume that adages are heavily culture-loaded — an assumption that would be right, for the most part. Yet within the global proverbial lexicon, there seem to exist several underlying motifs that converge around the same deeply human topics with only slight variations in substance.
One topic of particular thematic interest, at least to me, centers around the epistemology of beauty — think common quips like “beauty is in the eye of the beholder” or “don’t judge a book by its cover.”
This should come as no surprise. Aesthetic questions influence many of our day-to-day decisions, from what color combination to wear in the morning to vacillating about font size when working on an essay at 2 a.m. In essence, the ubiquitous desire of humans across cultures to seek out what we perceive to be beautiful seems to represent a process of sensory optimization, a claim that has received such empirical validation that an entire new field of scientific inquiry, “neuroaesthetics,” has spawned.
Ironically, if the pursuit of beauty is considered one of the most unifying aspects of human behavior, what each individual finds to be aesthetically pleasing is arguably one of the most diverse. Take, for instance, how we so frequently strive to distinguish ourselves in our choices in fashion, for tied to them is a significant portion of our individual identity.
Our dedication to seek out our unique definitions of beauty manifests itself as well in the type of art that we both profess to and authentically enjoy. Ever the Frasier fan, I am reminded of how Niles Crane, when denied access to a high society production, laments in his characteristic haughtiness: “I have to have people see me see this play.” Indeed, when making outwardly visible aesthetic judgments about some creative work made by others, we naturally consider, whether consciously or not, how our opinion of it might be perceived by others.
Given our status as social creatures, it isn’t too difficult to understand why we do this, but it does nevertheless foment a kind of artistic groupthink that, for the sake of a better culture around producing and enjoying the fruits of human creativity, we should strive to mitigate.
After all, consider what we might have today if the Victorian contemporaries of Impressionist maestro Gustave Courbet — the works of whom feature extensively in the Harvard Art Museum’s collections — made a conscious effort to separate, say, a solely aesthetic critique of his affinity for dark pastels rather than focusing their grievances on his passion for depicting rural life (or in the words of one detractor, for painting “peasants in their Sunday best”). Would we not be living in a world with, if not more Courbetesque works, then at least greater confidence in his authentic voice shining through in the existing corpus?
When an individual’s opinion about the creative efforts of others becomes overly tinged with preconceptions or prejudices, often because of a desire to parrot the thoughts of their social ingroups and gain greater acceptance or internal status, it is our collective artistic heritage that categorically suffers.
So don’t worry too much about how your unique aesthetic tastes in art, music, clothing, or anything else are perceived by friends and family. If we are to discard any remaining notions about the dualism of body and mind and accept the preponderance of empirical evidence that the latter arises in some fashion from the former, then we must logically conclude that sensations such as aesthetic pleasure possess a fundamentally biological basis.
To put it another way, what you or I find particularly beautiful emerges from mechanisms no different in character than those that govern everything from our choice of sleep schedule or preference for chocolate versus vanilla ice cream. The classic proverbs, in all their rustic wisdom, really do stand the test of time: Beauty truly does lie in the eyes of each and every one of us.
Alexander Junxiang Chen ’24 is a Neuroscience and Chemistry concentrator in Quincy House. His column “Artifactual” appears on Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
I’m in love with the Kirkland basement.
It’s a perennial social space for sophomores without common rooms — a place where laundry-goers must nimbly sidestep problem setters, pool players, and gym rats. The basement literally and figuratively connects the House, providing necessary resources while its common areas vitally strengthen the community.
Everywhere you turn, pieces of the past surface as reflections of the love previous Kirklanders had for the space. The green felt of the pool table is pockmarked with pale, miniscule craters, all memories of long-forgotten games. A kaleidoscopic collage of senior murals stretches under B entryway, imparting the most important messages left behind by each cohort of graduates. Just beyond, a lending library named after a former building manager houses a tattered yet eclectic collection of discarded paperbacks; plaques by the treadmills boast of intramural rowing victories almost a century ago; and framed photographs of smiling alumni bear timestamps dating as far back as 1977.
Caught up with ourselves, we often ignore these vestiges of past Kirklanders, even though their legacy markedly impacts our House culture today.
It’s easy to miss the gravity of bygone moments, but much also goes unappreciated in the present. We cozily sit in carefully positioned armchairs, unaware of the way the crocodilian cracks in the marshmallow-colored paint behind us infuse the room with a sense of snugness. Heavenly burgundy couches suspend nappers as if they were lazily floating in amniotic clouds, and an upside-down world map greets students as they pick up their mail — swiftly corrected by basement regulars if anyone makes the grave error of flipping it right side up.
The historic remnants and beautiful idiosyncrasies composing the Kirkland basement give it its character, imperceptibly affecting our dispositions and House culture. As I prepare to graduate, I’m slowly learning to say goodbye to my happy place, but I’m concerned that future Kirklanders may not be able to enjoy it the same way.
It is an alarming trend that recent renovations in other Houses have meant sacrificing character and history for sterile, unwelcoming corridors reminiscent of hospital wards. These modifications have rewritten the pattern language from crafting a comfortable community space to generating an alien one.
This column has been about considering the unseen, about looking at what usually goes overlooked in front of us and defending it when others don’t see it. When the basement is eventually remodeled, preserving small imperfections such as the textured walls and upside-down map is crucial for recapturing the quirky, cozy atmosphere it has today, and maintaining artifacts like the murals and library is essential for continuing our connection to the past. Otherwise, any indication of the love that I and so many others have poured into the Kirkland basement will be gone.
Adam V. Aleksic ’23 is a joint concentrator in Government and Linguistics in Kirkland House. His column “The Harvard Beneath Our Feet” appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Just two weekends ago, Harvard undergraduates got a free concert featuring a Grammy-nominated singer, songwriter, and producer — Jeremih.
Yet the response to this star-headlined, all-expenses-paid show was “mixed” — at least according to The Crimson. Some interviewed students felt that Jeremih’s brief set did not satisfy the build up of Yardfest; others were simply unfamiliar with his music.
Given that Jeremih’s award-winning work is hip hop and R&B — musical genres traditionally associated with Black artists — we can’t help but wonder whether this “mixed” response reflects a broader issue: the Harvard community’s covert racialized conception of fun and campus culture.
We do not mean that Harvard students seeking a night off are racist. But we notice a troubling pattern on campus where students enjoy consuming Black music and culture when it’s trending or mainstream — but forgo a bare minimum level of cultural appreciation and respect when it’s not.
Sometimes, “trending” is just code for white-adjacent, making this phenomenon even more insidious. Take last year’s Yardfest headliner, Swae Lee, a Black hip-hop artist whose set won significantly better reviews from students — again, at least according to The Crimson. Is this because Swae Lee is the significantly superior singer? Or is it because his most popular song, “Sunflower,” not only featured in the blockbuster film “Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse,” but also stars Post Malone, a popular white artist?
We suspect the latter. Music considered to have widespread appeal often caters to a culture that spotlights whiteness — a culture that ends up shafting Black communities and artistic expression.
Selectively embracing Black culture — only when it’s conveniently close to a white norm — is a pervasive campus-wide trend that has bled into this very newspaper’s own coverage. The Crimson’s headline about Yardfest this year pulled a quote from an interview to describe the concert as “Jere-mid”: an egregious use of African American Vernacular English to discredit the work of a Black man.
Tracing out the origins of language is a difficult task, yes, but we work in the business of language. For this offensive headline to go from conception through editing to publication without a single internal flag being raised reeks of a seeming total lack of sensitivity paid to the usage of AAVE and the experiences of Black students on campus.
Either The Crimson deliberately chose to unfairly highlight an unusually negative viewpoint in the headline of an article on a varied response, or Harvard’s culture is so saturated with disregard towards Black culture that no Harvard student involved saw a problem.
We can have fun without being culturally insensitive. Making Yardfest a festivity worth celebrating starts with us, as students, cultivating an appreciation for a broad palette of cultures. It is our responsibility to examine and prevent underhand prejudices from clouding our minds before the concert even begins. Cultural learning should happen even outside of the classroom.
Students should also take the time to familiarize themselves with an artist’s discography before hearing them live: Concert etiquette involves learning an artist’s songs before the show, in order to appreciate the performance even more. With the Yardfest lineup announcement coming a solid week before the actual event, students should have a significant amount of time to ‘study up’ on any music they’re unfamiliar with.
Administrators have an important role to play in facilitating fun, too. They should schedule Yardfest earlier in the weekend so that everyone can join in wholeheartedly on the entertainment, without the looming worry of their Monday 9 a.m. classes.
We are truly thankful for Jeremih for coming to Harvard and performing for our student body; we hope he enjoyed his time here and are grateful that he shared his Grammy-nominated talent with us. To future Yardfest headliners: We hope that the ungracious and biased criticisms of Jeremih, as presented in The Crimson’s coverage, don’t deter you from coming to perform; we’d still love to have you.
But until next Yardfest, our campus must reckon with how it treats Black culture. Our collective status quo — not the College Events Board’s choice in headliners — is the real culprit worth criticizing.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
A girl is sitting in an open field. She’s wearing red sneakers and a red varsity jacket over a t-shirt that says “SENIORS” in blocky blue letters. She looks straight at the camera lens, her blonde hair windswept across her face. Green is all around her — the blades of grass like brushstrokes.
I am looking at this photograph from my family’s desktop computer. I am 11 or 12 years old. I am probably wearing a training bra from Target and a shirt that says something like “GIRLS ROCK!” The girl on my computer screen is an unnamed high schooler, only a few years older than I am, but I idolize her as if she were a supermodel on the cover of Vogue.
I found this photo on the website for Rookie Magazine, an online publication geared towards teenage girls. Rookie Magazine was founded in 2011 by Tavi Gevinson, a teenage blogger and fashion critic. Unlike other magazines I encountered as a preteen, Rookie prioritized creativity over consumption. Most of its content was produced by other teenagers, and its archive consisted of countless articles teaching teen girls how to make collages, publish zines, or write poetry.
Rookie, like many other magazines, aestheticized female adolescence. After the sixth grade, I came home and clicked through film photographs of girls in flower crowns and vintage clothing. I scrolled through fashion columns advising me on how to style myself, after Lux Lisbon from “The Virgin Suicides,” Suzy Bishop from “Moonrise Kingdom,” or Audrey Horne from “Twin Peaks.” I read sprawling interviews between Gevinson and her friend group of teen girl celebrities. I bookmarked personal essays about first-time sex and sneaking out.
When I was a preteen, Rookie fueled the daydreams that I had about my coming teenage years. I imagined fun parties, memorable misadventures, my picture-worthy prom dress. Not something perfect, but something precious that I could only access in the years between 12 and 20.
***
If I internalized anything from Rookie Magazine, it was the impulse to create. I spent all of high school writing short stories about things that had never happened to me: drunken kisses, hookups and heartbreaks, thin cigarettes perched between shaking fingers. Fiction was the facade I built to conceal my actual teenage experiences, which consisted mostly of studying and listening to angsty songs on loop. Adults warned me about treating my teenage years like a transitory period. But I wanted to graduate the day I started high school, and I spent the next four years ensuring that I could go to college somewhere far away from my hometown.
I don’t have a direct way to explain why I wanted to escape the place I was from. I grew up in a quaint, quiet suburb outside of Houston, Texas. When I describe that place to my friends in college, the word I use most often is hostile. I remember friends confessing that their parents were strong proponents of replacement theory, a far-right conspiracy that argues that racial minorities maliciously intend to displace the white population. I remember the xenophobic rants on the neighborhood Facebook page, the MAGA rally at the mall during the 2020 election, the racially coded insults that I learned to take with a blank smile.
I didn’t pursue memorable teenage years because I was motivated to move away from the place that raised me. In high school, almost every action I took was an investment in my future, a step on the way out of adolescence. I never bought my picture-worthy prom dress because I skipped the dance and spent the weekend at Harvard instead.
***
Even now at 19, teetering at the edge of adolescence, I’m not sure if I regret that mindset. I try to look back on my own teenage years through a neutral lens: it happened, it can’t be changed. At the same time, I find myself peering into the next dizzying decade of my life. I graduated from training bras many years ago, but I still feel like the preteen at the desktop computer, trying to catch a glimpse of the years ahead of her.
Even though the publication folded in 2018, I’ve recently found myself returning to the film photo albums of Rookie Magazine. The girls in cheer skirts and scrunchies are crystallized in the hallways of their high schools: figures from a beautiful memory, a memory that isn’t mine.
— Magazine writer Yasmeen A. Khan can be reached at yasmeenkhan@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @yazzywriting
Sections
Dear Sophomore Year,
I don’t know where to begin or how to commit you to the page.
I almost have to admire your sheer magnitude. You’ve created the perfect storm — drama, rejection, loss. All I’ve been able to say is, “This is too big.” But big things need to be written about. And hard years deserve letters, too.
To your credit, you haven’t been all bad. Your first month held wonder in the air. This campus welcomed me home. I celebrated the return of friends to school, met bubbly freshmen, and daydreamed about what the year would look like. Sundresses and iced coffee in the summer. Trips to Boston and apple picking in the fall. A winter of snowmen on the sidewalk and cozy movie nights, and a spring that left me begging to stay.
Life moved fast. A good summer turned into a difficult fall, but it was the usual kind of difficult, of things not going the way you’d hoped they would. A kind of difficult that makes you realize why people write songs about heartbreak, and makes you listen to them, and makes you move on. I went to class, I declared a major, I made new friends. Life didn’t slow down — until it did. Until it crashed.
***
No one quite tells you what to do when you get the news you’ve lost a friend. No one tells you who to call, or where to go, or how to write about it. There’s nothing to cushion the blow, and there’s nothing you can tell yourself that will make it better. It just is.
You just are. I can’t blame you for being the year my friend was taken, even if I want to. Still, after all of that, you weren’t easy to trust.
I hesitated to approach you again in January. I focused on what I could control. Classes, calendars, routines. I counted one good thing every day. The soundlessness of falling snow. A beautiful walk down Brattle Street. Colorful nails. Cups of tea. Friend dates. Themed parties. It worked as well as I guess it could.
***
I’m finding it hard to write about you. I can’t sum you up into distinctive parts as I could in freshman year, and I’m having trouble remembering which moments of you happened when. You’re a blur to me. A tangled mess of experiences that seem small and unexceptional in the grand scheme of things. It’s not your fault — you’ve been stained by grief, and I can’t clean you up into something presentable in one letter.
I guess what I should admit is that you’ve disappointed me. You lack the newness of last year — the “magic” I once wrote about — and you lack the constancy that was supposed to make up for that. The reality is that I’m still nostalgic for freshman year. But I also gravitate toward that nostalgia; it’s what keeps me close to the memories of the person I’ve lost.
At each step, this campus reminds me of him — each time I pass by the Inn, each time I eat Krave cereal in the dining hall, each time I find a penny on the ground. I try to embrace that. I try to linger in the ambiguity of how I feel.
Grief is full of hopelessness and full of hope. Somehow, the two manage to coexist. Hopelessness is the biting truth that goodness does not always prevail — a truth I’ve learned the hard way. Hope is the quiet resilience that gets me up in the morning despite that. Life after loss seems to be about blindly choosing hope. Even when I don’t believe in it, even when the truth is staring me in the face. I choose hope because deep down, I know some part of me isn’t ready to give it up.
***
In my letter to my freshman year, I wrote, “You weren’t flawless. But you showed up.” It’s funny reading that now, knowing that my problems then were so trivial in comparison. But it’s true for you, too.
You’ve shown up. No one can argue with that. You’ve woken me up for 7:15 a.m. spin class (surprisingly euphoric), you’ve walked by me through reflective strolls by the Quad, you’ve spent fun, delirious nights with me at The Crimson. You’ve even shown me there’s a bright side to hardship, the way shared grief makes room for new friendships that quickly turn into family.
What’s left after loss is not nothing. What’s left after loss is love. I know I have a lot of it to give.
I wasn’t ready for you, but I’m steadier now. Steady enough to end this letter with the gratitude I’ve worked hard to find. For friends who make me laugh and let me cry. For intellectual work that ignites my brain and reminds me what I care about. For this campus — it holds so much. For the privilege of this fragile life. For the growing confidence that it’s worth believing in.
I don’t know what next year will hold, and I’m not as optimistic as I used to be. But even if the perfect junior year isn’t around the corner, I know what is: the same safety in the people I know, the same desire to try, the same love I can’t and won’t let go of. And for now, that’s enough for me.
Yours,
Michal
— Magazine Editor-at-Large Michal Goldstein can be reached at michal.goldstein@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @bymgoldstein.
Sections
It’s the Saturday night of Halloweekend, and outside, partygoers whoop and laugh so loudly I can hear them even with my earbuds in. I’m alone at my desk watching a video of a Japanese woman making meals for her family.
It cuts to a clip of her, her husband, and her daughter gathered at the dinner table. The daughter places a stuffed toy in her dad’s shirt pocket, and the tenderness and simplicity of the gesture triggers something in me. I start sobbing so uncontrollably that I have to pause the video.
I want to be like that again, I want to be the daughter, I want to be taken care of, to have such a simple conception of the world that all that matters is my home, my parents, the food right before me, what I’ll play with next, I word-vomit into my notes app. I don’t want to think about taking care of myself or getting through the days. I want life to be simple. I want to be cared for.
***
Until recently, the gravitational pull that the past exerts on me has been one rooted in warmth. I still have my cringey middle school writing in journals and on my laptop. I love flipping through photos — everything backed up on my laptop since high school freshman year, my infancy and toddlerhood documented in photo albums at home.
But this year, I’ve found that my relationship with the past has gradually changed; that its pull, while still tender, has become primarily sharp and painful. I’ve found myself not just indulging in these trips down memory lane, but wishing I could stay in them forever.
I’ve spent this past year vacillating between blazing through work and curling up on my couch crying, two extremes whose combination has been so jarring that my mind has opted to simply dissociate more days than I’d like to admit. The summer left me raw; upheavals in my relationships, coupled with the stress of balancing an internship and a research position, left me questioning everything about myself, my values, and my world. When I entered the fall semester, still processing it all, I felt decidedly not ready to take on extracurriculars and courses.
But the world stops for no one. Work became what it always had been: a stressor, but also an escape mechanism, something I could throw myself into as I staggered away from myself, this girl who felt so lost and was hurting so badly, this girl I could not stand to be. Work was an anesthetic, a cushion between my pain and myself — because what was the point in being mired in sadness when there were papers to be written, pieces to be edited, emails to be sent?
Inevitably, I would crash and burn. And crash I did, into a full-blown depressive episode. Years-old wounds I thought I had stitched up burst open again, oozing into everything I was already struggling to process. Again and again, I had tried to run away from myself, but running only works for so long before your legs give way — before you have to stop, and look back at what you’re running from.
***
It’s Thanksgiving, and my morning starts with an art project: assembling pages and pages of photos alongside various trinkets in a pine green gift box I’d folded the previous night. I want to open it and go through its contents when I can’t remember how loved I am, how happy I’ve been, how happy I could be.
They litter my desk now, all these paraphernalia of love. Receipts from outings with my boyfriend. Printouts of emails and texts from friends, family members, and mentors. A good-luck pendant my mother gifted me before I came to college.
Most of all, there are the photos: wild fungi, intricate leaves, the Pacific Ocean; my favorite flower booth at the farmer’s market back home; my boyfriend smiling at me while I grin at the camera; the FM exec cinnamon roll-hug at our last meeting; baby me in my dad’s arms, pouting at a bird at the zoo.
Cutting out the photos one by one, I fight the urge to cry. A blur of feelings swells in my chest — the bittersweetness of these representations of a simpler life and a happier self; the sharp pain of the juxtaposition between them and myself now, sitting alone at my desk, hurting and hurting and hurting. But more than anything, I feel overwhelmed by love, by how lucky I am to have and have had such an abundance of care in my life, so many reasons to smile, so many people and places to love and thank.
As tears escape down my cheeks, it hits me, a thought as liberating as it is terrifying: This is what I need. To not just remember and long, but to create, to be; to seek out and put myself in situations and places where I feel like my younger self again: loved, carefree, happy. To stop denying myself what is simple and pure, to set aside everything once in a while, to do some things for the hell of it, to let myself live, for once.
***
The sun extends its rays through bare branches and evergreen foliage, dappling my body and the earth with speckles of luminescent warmth. I draw in a deep breath, imagining the cold, piney air traveling through every vessel in my body. It’s winter in California — post-storm, at that. The creek roars and rushes down the rocks, slicing through the earthy slopes. Behind me, I can hear my dad’s steady breaths as he treads uphill.
Pausing at the top of a small slope, I admire the backlit leaves above me. Why would anyone want heaven if we already have this on earth? The thought is so foreign in its wonderfulness that a giddy laugh bubbles in me. As I trot down the slope, I let myself break into a run, the same way I would when I was younger. My eyes water from the cold. My cheeks hurt from my smile.
— Magazine Editor-at-Large Kaitlyn Tsai can be reached at kaitlyn.tsai@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @kaitlyntsaiii.
Sections
“So, how’s London?” I asked her.
It was late; the lights were off and the room was dark, save for an apricot orange lamp that hung over the center of the dinner table. Her cat lay curled up, facing away, on the armchair against the wall. Above and to the left of the chair, we looked into our reflections in the glass door and watched as the scene we spoke the lines of unfolded — like a screenplay that had already been written:
FADE IN
The scene begins at the dinner table. It is Dec. 17, 2022. Parkview, Johannesburg, South Africa. Four friends, after some time away, are back together again. One was in Cambridge, Massachusetts; one was in London; another in Berlin (and God knows where else); and one had stayed in Johannesburg. One of two things might be true: (1) each of them struggles to reconcile themselves to the improbability of their all being in one place at the same time again, or (2) they had each blown so much air into the balloon of their anticipation that it teetered frighteningly on the brink of bursting. Or both. An uneasy silence snuggles into the space of all the words they don’t say.
There is no more than a bottle of wine, three glasses, and a ceramic bowl filled with cigarette butts on the table. It is a table better fit for the Last Supper, really; they sit with too much distance from one another. The parents of the home offer tea, or dinner, or anything at all, but they decline. Just the wine is alright. 
“I really love London,” she replied. “It’s strange, I guess I can only understand the cities I experience through Joburg and what growing up here was like. We grew up always thinking about where we were, and more so where we weren’t. How our lives looked so differently – out the backseat windows of our Range Rovers — to the rest of the country’s.”
She spoke around the facts. She always did. We always did. But I knew exactly what she meant. Where we were was the gated avenues and green-grassed gardens of Johannesburg’s northern suburbs; where we weren’t was South Africa. We took the flag of our rainbow nation and waived it everywhere we went. We knew, though, that it was an illusion. We spoke South Africa’s name and left the shame behind.
“In London, though, everywhere feels like I can go there; I walk around and each place feels like one I can enter. I have a sense that the city’s mine, and that it’s everyone else’s too.”
I wasn’t quite sure what to say next. I thought for some time, and before arranging the words in my head I asked,
“Do you think you’d change the way we grew up?”
“I don’t know. I don’t think we can know. Maybe I’d change the things that made it so that such different lives were even possible in the first place. You know, grocery shopping on Monday, invent another world on Tuesday. It’s been interesting being away, but it’s so good being home. And I’d rather have good than interesting. This city means a lot to me. I know it does to you too.”
***
The Johannesburg I know is not the one my parents know. Ever since the city was young — ever since it saw gold — Johannesburg has had big ambitions. So it lured the young and ambitious, my parents among them. They and their generation flocked to see, from the peak of Hillbrow Tower, all of Africa; they came to tell the triumphant tale of how Johannesburg became the New York of Africa; they came to rub shoulders with the obscenely rich in the suburb of Sandton, which greets you with a sign: ‘THE RICHEST SQUARE MILE IN AFRICA.’
As much as the city may dream of American excess, it is England that shaped this place. Peer into an aerial photograph of Johannesburg and something will strike you as out of place. Not quite a sore thumb but something along those lines. A Tudor rose in the weeds perhaps. Nudged between the high rises and the dingy apartment buildings are the Victorian buildings and green cricket fields of the school I went to for most of my life.
A new city with an old past, they said at Johannesburg’s unveiling. But part of the old endures. One could guess by its facade that my school was founded in 1898, and perhaps extrapolate that it is an all-boys Anglican day and boarding private school. Right next to it is the one my friend now in London went to, the all-girls equivalent founded in 1903. It wasn’t unfamiliar for us to hear our schools described as ‘Little England on the Veld.’
We grew up, for the most part, unbothered and undisturbed by the urban decay that the electric fences and private security-guarded gates made sure to keep away from us. When we left our little England, we traveled in hired buses, joining the tourists who were told not to leave without seeing “the real South Africa.” We were told always to keep our belongings out of sight and make a mental note of who was behind and in front of us.
And so whenever I was asked in my first semester at Harvard to describe what Johannesburg was like, the answer I knew to be true but was always too proud to say was that I didn’t really know. I’d never known. Places I recommended were places I’d never been. The photos I have look like the negatives of some 18th-century Victorian catalog. There I am, smiling in my khaki shorts and shirt and knee-high socks, the crest on my blazer pocket bearing Latin inscriptions. There I am again, three minutes before the grand bell tower in the back chimes three times to mark the passage of another quarter hour.
The sun set on that illusion in July 2021. It was the July Unrest. All we knew then was that the myth of a rainbow nation existing in harmony cracked like the store windows in the streets. Shops were looted, citizens killed by the hundreds, and the truths of our childhoods turned to fantasy.
We could always say that we lived in the world’s most unequal country, but there was never any indication that that might change. At school, we would scream “Fuck the middle class,” and then drive home in our Mercedes-Benzses to our two-story houses. We couldn’t anymore though, at least not without a degree of shame. In history class, Marx told us that society’s classes are defined always in opposition to one another. We couldn’t read that without seeing the page as a mirror, without seeing our reflections in his bourgeoisie. So, when theory turned to practice and Johannesburg went up in smoke, we turned away.
Over time, the dissonance between my city and me rang in my ears like one of those high-frequency whistles. I decided in my last year of high school that whatever came next, I wanted nothing to do with Johannesburg. Whether it was Cape Town or Cambridge, it would be better, freer. I wanted roads I didn’t know — maybe it was postcode envy. We thought too much in Johannesburg, about Johannesburg. I wanted quiet.
***
“And how’s Cambridge?” she asked back, equal parts courtesy and intrigue.
“Cambridge is okay.”
“Just okay?”
“Well, I guess it’s sweet.”
“You don’t hear cities being called sweet.”
I’d meant the people were sweet. I’d meant it as a pleasantry. She’s always had a way of seeing through those.
“There’s this guy, John Guare. He wrote a play called ‘Six Degrees of Separation.’ Someone asked the kid in it, ‘How’s Harvard?’ The kid replies, ‘Well, fine. It’s just there. Everyone’s in a constant state of luxurious despair and constant discovery and paralysis.’ I guess that.”
“But that’s Harvard, not Cambridge.”
“Yeah, and I think that’s it. My world had a radius of 2 kilometers. I guess it’s the same thing we’ve always been talking about.”
She let out a sigh, less of pity than of a kind of understanding.
“It’s like the King Krule line,” I said with a smile, waiting to see if she’d take what I was about to say seriously. “I don’t deserve history repeating itself.”
“Ahh, of course.”
She refilled her wine glass. We both wore smirks on our faces as a gentle silence hung.
She looked back at me. “And the second question?”
“What second question?”
“Would you change the way we grew up?”
“I mean, you know I’m gonna say what you said, so that’s a little unfair. But, um … I don’t know. I guess we’re here now. I feel like a little kid, don’t you?” Driving home with my mom yesterday from the airport, I asked her if the city had always been this green. I’ve been telling my friends from school that Joburg has better weather than anywhere in the world, that there are no prettier beaches than Cape Town’s. All of a sudden I speak in these hyperbolic terms about everything.
“All the superlatives,” she said, again through a smirk.
“Haha, yeah. I’d say it’s just the novelty, but we’ve been here for 19 years. On the other hand, there really is an entire other city to see. It’s all there.”
“Well, we better see some of it.”
— Magazine writer Sazi T. Bongwe can be reached at sazi.bongwe@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @sazibongwe_.
Sections
Hanging in Harvard’s Office of the President is a grayscale image titled “The Music Lesson,” capturing the bald head of an attentive Allen Ginsberg. He’s looking down at Bob Dylan’s left hand as it shapes a D chord on his fretboard, casually holding a cigarette in his other hand. The two Beatniks, known for their surrealistic lamentations of 1950s America, certainly seem a bit out of place in a Harvard administrative office. It seems that the photograph’s only connection to Harvard is that the photographer is none other than former Mather House tutor and longtime Cambridge resident Elsa S. Dorfman.
Dorfman’s collection is dispersed across the Harvard Art Museums, the Museum of Fine Arts, and the walls of her family home near Mather House. Her prints capture fleeting moments: friends intellectualizing, Cambridge haunts that have since disappeared, a self-portrait of the artist as she was aging. Understanding Dorfman means understanding both the brevity and the universality of these moments.
A Boston native, Dorfman spent a year after graduating college as a secretary at Grove Press, an alternative publishing house in New York. There, she met and arranged readings for radical poets like Allen Ginsberg, Susan Sontag ’57, and Robert Lowell, artistic contemporaries who would remain her lifelong friends. Afterward, she moved back to Boston for a brief stint as an elementary school teacher, during which she shocked the “very straight principal” by reading Beat poetry to her fifth-grade students.
It was then that Dorfman began shooting film for a company developing teaching materials. She immediately recognized the potential of photography; Dorfman reached out to her poet friends from Grove Press to be her first subjects. She painted the walls of her apartment black to create a darkroom and sold her photographs for $2.50 out of a grocery cart next to the Harvard Square MBTA stop.
In Cambridge, she met her future husband, civil rights litigator Harvey A. Silverglate. As Silverglate remembers it, “It took about 10 minutes before we fell in love with each other.” They were a devoted couple.
Today, each room of their family residence is covered wall-to-wall in a gallery of original prints, handwritten notes, and the art of friends and artists who the couple gave lodging to.
“Relationships must have seasons and rhythms; constancy isn’t necessarily the key,” Dorfman writes in her 1974 photojournal “Elsa’s Housebook.” “By taking pictures in my house, I get a sense of how things change every day.”
On any given weekend, one could find leading attorneys and illustrious poets sharing lunch in the Dorfmans’ kitchen. Charlie V. Olchowski ’73, a student at the time who had helped build the Mather House darkroom Dorfman worked in, remembers her unique ability to bring out the creativity in everyone around her.
“Everybody had a great talent or a creative spirit,” Olchowski says. “They would feed off of each other, they would reinforce each other, and they would recharge the batteries of that creativity by being around each other.”
Around 1980, Dorfman acquired one of the six large-scale Polaroid Land 20x24 cameras. About 200 pounds in weight and with a lens as big as a face, the camera produced prints that were two feet tall. Dorfman’s style was soon characterized by these massive, unique portraits.
In one photo, Allen Ginsberg stands naked in her studio. In the next, with the same honesty and vulnerability, tired parents hold a crying baby. Dorfman could make her subjects into “flesh and blood,” Olchowski says.
When she was director of the Mather darkroom, Dorfman took portraits of the students. Scribbled in ink beneath five students clutching toy trucks and stuffed animals are the names of accomplished students and aspiring businesspeople, attorneys, writers, and doctors. Though, in their portrait, they are how Dorfman saw them: youthful, unsure, and a bit angsty.
Heather B. Long ’03, who posed in one of these portraits, remembers the way Dorfman urged them not to take themselves too seriously.
“It’s funny, because at the time we thought, ‘Oh, we’re gonna look like babies, even though we’re so grown up.’ But she was probably looking at us, like, ‘They think they’re so big. This is what they look like to me.’”
Dorfman was deeply involved in the Mather community, offering non-credit photography seminars and frequently meeting up with students in the dining hall to talk. Her reputation as a warm and goofy person preceded her work as a photographer. “Her place in Mather House was beyond just photography. She made you think about community, and that there’s a world out there with a lot of opportunity,” Olchowski says.
Dorfman died in May 2020 from kidney failure, brought on, perhaps, by too many hours spent working with darkroom chemicals, Silverglate says.
“Elsa did not work for history,” Silverglate says. “Her goal was to give some measure of joy to her subjects.”
The 20x24 Polaroid film distinct to Dorfman’s style is no longer mass-produced; her work will never be replicated. But it lives on through portraits hung in homes around the world, immortalized in postcards, museums, and biographies.
Harvard Square, too, has changed. In 2017, Dorfman reflected on the Square’s gentrification in “Elsa’s Housebook”: “Think endless banks. Pizzerias. Tourist buses. Eyebrow salons.”
Still, Dorfman held onto the camera’s ability to create some permanence to all that’s fleeting around us.
“I have always had the feeling that everything is going to last forever: nothing is ever going to change,” she wrote. “We’ll never get any older and we’re always going to be friends. I can take the picture today or tomorrow or in a week. It will be there.”
— Magazine writer Molly E. Egan can be reached at molly.egan@thecrimson.com.
Sections
At first, it is hard to not feel intimidated by The Harvard Crimson.
If you go upstairs to the second floor of the little brick building on 14 Plympton St., you enter a room (“the Sanctum,” as Crimson editors call it) lined with huge leather-bound tomes containing issues dating back to the ’50s. Sequestered in the basement are the issues from The Crimson’s very beginning, 1873. It takes a while to get situate yourself in such a storied place, to adjust to being a successor of many notable alumni who once inhabited it.
The experience of a Crimson editor is also, over time, learning how to become comfortable with calling those same alumni for advice or, in our case, with requesting interviews to ask about their experiences ahead of The Crimson’s 150th anniversary.
Initially, it was hard for us to understand why everyone — from award-winning journalists running newsrooms to the sitting United States Secretary of State — was so willing to make time in their busy schedules to speak with us and reminisce about their time at the paper.
Indeed, when we walked into The Crimson for the first time, we had the sense that we were immersing ourselves into a bedrock institution, not just for Harvard, but for the world. Everyone we interviewed mentioned how The Crimson always found itself at the center of current events: the Vietnam War, Watergate, and anti-apartheid protests, just to name a few.
But bedrock institutions all have their flaws. While The Crimson reports on the world outside its walls, it has also been shaped by the systems it critiques. Our interviewees mentioned facing sexism, a lack of socioeconomic diversity, and brutal working hours — just a few of the issues that the paper continues to grapple with.
And yet, all of our interviewees reflect on their time here with gratitude and fondness. After hearing their stories, we started to get it: their careers and life trajectories were shaped immensely by their time working as reporters, opinion writers, photographers, coders, and designers for our 150-year-old independent student newspaper. And The Crimson, in turn, has been shaped immensely by them.
In truth, the legacy of The Crimson is not contained in books; it’s in the people who have sustained it. Here are just nine of them.
Shortly after our interview begins, Daniel Ellsberg ’52 casually drops that just days earlier, he was diagnosed with terminal cancer and has only three to six months to live.
Ellsberg, now 92, relays this devastating news in a nonchalant tone, as if he is approaching the end of his life at peace with himself and the world. But the rest of the 90-minute conversation reveals precisely the opposite.
Ellsberg, the man responsible for the blockbuster leak of the Pentagon Papers, has bigger worries than dying.
He is deeply concerned, for example, about how the war in Ukraine will end. “Probably it will escalate to nuclear winter,” he says.
He also professes to be deeply upset about not being able to attend The Crimson’s sesquicentennial.
And, though he’s happy to be featured in this cover story, Ellsberg, a longtime vocal critic of American foreign policy, expresses dismay about appearing alongside former Crimson editor Antony J. Blinken ’84.
“A jerk-off, as far as I can tell,” Ellsberg says of the U.S. Secretary of State. (Blinken did not respond to a request for comment.)
But as for terminal cancer, Ellsberg has chosen to see the bright side of not needing to worry about his diet. He cheerfully says that his doctor has given him permission to eat whatever he wants. “I’m going to have Thai food tonight, which I haven’t had for five years,” he says. “I love it. And Indian food, Chinese food — I’ve had to go without all this pleasure from food for five years now. So I’m in very good spirits. Now I can really indulge myself.”
A former Crimson Editorial Board member, Ellsberg found fame as the whistleblower who leaked secret government documents about the Vietnam War.
Using his access as a RAND Corporation employee to obtain the Pentagon Papers, Ellsberg initially leaked the Pentagon Papers to Neil Sheehan ’58, a reporter for the New York Times. However, as the Times debated with its lawyers over whether to publish the papers, months passed without the publication of a single article.
In order to distribute the Pentagon Papers more widely, Ellsberg says he “seriously considered” using The Crimson’s personal printing press. According to Ellsberg, he went as far as to visit the building and ask whether it would be possible to rent out the printing press for the night.
Ultimately, he took a different route.
“I relied on Xerox shops,” he says. “About four of them in the Harvard Square area.”
Ellsberg has no difficulty recalling detailed memories from his undergraduate years at Harvard, but keeping him on topic is a much more complicated task. A lighthearted question about whether Ellsberg prefers The Crimson or the literary magazine the Harvard Advocate (he served as president of the Advocate in 1950) turns into him sharing a story about his first wife.
“I first made love to her in the Advocate office one night,” he confesses. “Of course, she was with me at The Crimson a lot too, later,” he says, before providing more detail for his original anecdote: “It was actually, I believe, on a couch with a rug for a blanket.”
While the Harvard Advocate continues to hold special personal significance for Ellsberg, The Crimson “shaped my life much more,” he says. Ellsberg says that The Crimson “was one of my warmest associations” and that it was “a very formative factor.”
Ellsberg says he fondly remembers the spirited discussions and “intellectual atmosphere” of his Editorial Board meetings, which helped prepare him for his professional life.
He recalls a contentious meeting he had early in his career with Herman Kahn, the Cold War systems theorist who inspired Stanley Kubrick’s “Dr. Strangelove.” They were both working at the RAND Corporation when Ellsberg spoke up and questioned Kahn, which sparked a shouting match that descended into name-calling. The meeting left Ellsberg feeling like he was back home at 14 Plympton St.
“We’re back at The Crimson on the Editorial Board,” Ellsberg recalled thinking after the meeting. “Now we can talk with the gloves off.”
Donald E. Graham ’66 says that no one in his graduating class at The Crimson ever needed to think deeply about their post-graduate plans — after all, the U.S. was waging a war in Vietnam.
“We damn well knew what our first job would be,” he tells us. “We would either get drafted or do something to avoid getting drafted. And you didn’t have to prepare for that.”
Indeed, Graham was tapped as an information specialist — a hybrid photographing and reporting role — in the First Air Cavalry Division, alongside fellow Crimson editor Herbert H. Denton Jr. ’65. “It was the only time anyone ever detected any artistic talent in either of us, the Army making us photographers,” Graham recounts to me, chuckling.
As we casually chat on Zoom — Graham holding up a phone vertically and using its selfie camera — he recalls how newspapers have always been a cornerstone in his life.
In high school, Graham was a “newspaper junkie,” serving as the editor of his school newspaper (“as many of your colleagues probably are,” he says). His father, the owner and publisher of the Washington Post at the time, was “absolutely my hero,” Graham says, and “his example made me love newspapers all the more.”
But Graham’s father warned young Don not to join The Crimson immediately upon entering Harvard. He only ended up waiting a month, he tells me, joining in September. And he was hooked.
As a Crimson editor, Graham “wrote about anything and everything,” including a review of the General Education program, which resulted in “some of the most boring stories ever published in The Crimson,” he says. “I don’t think that review of the General Education program ever came to a damn thing,” Graham rants. “But my God, we covered the hell out of it!”
As a freshman in the fall of 1962, Graham says “it was a time of optimism about the country — belief in the country, confidence in its future.” But when Graham graduated four years later, he felt like he was “living in a different country.” After the United States had committed boots on the ground in Vietnam in 1965, “the political climate at Harvard was about Vietnam, period.” Graham recalls that “there was no other subject for discussion.”
By the time Graham was elected president of the 92nd Guard, Vietnam had also made its way to The Crimson. He recalls that the “hero of all of us” at 14 Plympton St. was former Crimson editor David Halberstam ’55, the principal New York Times reporter in Vietnam. According to Graham, he “wrote stories that proved to be absolutely true about how the war wasn’t going anywhere,” to the ire of the Kennedy administration.
That was a point of pride for The Crimson. In the 1960s, the running joke at 14 Plympton was that “the score was 23 to two in favor of The Crimson,” a rallying cry that writers referred to “whenever someone at Harvard excelled or disgraced himself,” Graham says. Halberstam remembered the joke, and from Vietnam, “Halberstam sent a postcard to a classmate, who sent it on to The Crimson, in which he said: ‘The score at the end of 1964 is the New York Times, 23; the US government, 2.”
Ultimately, Graham joined the Washington Post in January 1971, the year of the Pentagon Papers and the year before the Watergate scandal. “My first few years at the Post were pretty exciting,” Graham says.
Before college, Graham had not expected that he would ever end up back at his family’s business.
But, things changed after tragedy struck his family.
“The saddest day of my life was when my dad took his own life in the summer after my first year at Harvard,” Graham says.
As a result, Graham’s mother took over as publisher of the Post — in doing so, she also became the first woman at the helm of any major American newspaper. Nonetheless, she was “eager for any of her children to come help her,” Graham says, and armed with experience from The Crimson, Graham fit the bill.
In 1979, Graham took over for his mother as the publisher of the Post, a position he held until 2000, when he was elected chairman of the newspaper. His successor as publisher was Boisfeuillet Jones Jr. ’68, who served as president of The Crimson two years after Graham.
Above all, though, Graham views this changing of the guard as a testament to the enduring power of connections that began at 14 Plympton St.: “People who were Crimson people turned up over the years, just as you are in my life right now.”
“I have a million other 60-year-old stories to bore you with, but that’ll have to do for now,” Graham chuckles.
The New York Times knew Gay W. Seidman ’78 would be president of The Crimson before she did. News of The Crimson’s first female president snuck its way from Cambridge to the printing presses of the New York Times hours before Seidman found out herself.
Though Seidman says she rarely went to bed before 4 a.m. in college, she decided to turn in early on the night of final decisions — only to be rudely awakened by a call from former Crimson editor J. Anthony Lewis ’48, who was in New York that morning.
“As he was flying back, he picked up a copy of the Times off the press,” says Seidman. “While he was on the plane, he’s reading it and there’s an article that says I’m the president. He screamed so loudly that the stewardess came over to ask if he was okay.”
Seidman became involved with The Crimson at a pivotal moment in its history. Harvard College had just gone co-ed, and in her words, the world was “so male-dominated.” Seidman decided to comp The Crimson after her roommate joined. Her first article was on a proposal to build a new parking garage in Harvard Square — “not something I would ever be interested in,” Seidman says.
“After that first story, I wasn’t sure I was gonna go back,” she says. “And Jeff Leonard, who was then the managing editor, called me and told me I had to come back because he really liked the story. And I was like, ‘Oh, I’ll try a couple more times.’” Seidman laughs. “I was hooked but didn’t know it.”
When she first joined The Crimson, Seidman says shooting for president was something she never would’ve considered. But as she got more involved, Seidman felt welcomed by The Crimson’s leadership.
“There were a number of older juniors and seniors who were being so kind to me,” says Seidman. “They were saying, ‘It’s time there’s a woman.’” Seidman was also encouraged by Lewis, who she says used his own experience as a journalist to “really adopt” her.
But during Seidman’s term as president, some people still questioned her authority. According to Seidman, when the Harvard Lampoon printed fake issues of The Crimson that year, their headline was “Gay Seidman Talks about Fashion” (“So ridiculous, given my lack of fashion taste,” she comments). She also remembers The Crimson’s alumni board approaching her about reinstating the organization’s discontinued alumni dinners — a request Seidman says she knew was gendered. Seidman jokes that picking the alumni dinner’s menu was her greatest challenge as president. “I’m a pescatarian,” she quips, “I had no idea what I was putting on the plate!”
Seidman says expectations were higher for her, as The Crimson’s first female president: “I didn’t want to do anything wrong, because if I did something wrong…” Seidman trails off. “I think I was aware that I had to follow norms.”
Seidman’s flagship initiative during her term was expanding The Crimson’s coverage of campus anti-apartheid movements. Seidman and her twin sister, Neva Seidman Makgetla ’78, spent much of their childhood in Africa, which drew them to early anti-apartheid efforts. When Mekgelta came to Harvard, she became a leader in Harvard’s anti-apartheid divestment movement. Though Seidman also wanted to participate in this movement, she worried that advocating for divestment would compromise her journalistic integrity as president of The Crimson.
“I had to pretty much stay away from it while I was president, although we did cover every demonstration,” Seidman recalls. The Crimson reported on United States anti-apartheid activism earlier than most outlets, and its journalism helped catapult calls for divestment to the national stage.
Though Seidman thought about becoming a journalist after college, after dictating The Crimson’s coverage as president, she “couldn’t imagine” going back to beat reporting. Instead, Seidman used graduation as a chance to finally do the activism she always wanted to do.
After leaving Harvard, Seidman moved to the small African nation of Eswatini to work for a branch of the United Nations, then spent the next few years traveling across southern Africa as an activist and freelance writer.
Seidman says the “extraordinary” racism she witnessed while in Africa was eye-opening. While living in the newly-independent nation of Zimbabwe, Seidman was commissioned to rewrite Zimbabwe’s colonial-era history textbooks. The old textbooks insisted that the Great Zimbabwe Ruins “couldn’t have been built by Africans, it must have been Phoenicians or something,” scoffs Seidman. “Their version of history was just ludicrous.”
When Seidman returned to the U.S., she ran for and won election to the Harvard Board of Overseers on a pro-divestment platform, contributing to the growing public pressure that eventually pushed Harvard to divest from apartheid South Africa. Seidman’s experiences working on the board and writing textbooks in Zimbabwe ignited her interest in academia. Seidman then got a Ph.D. from the University of California, Berkeley, and now works as a professor of sociology at the University of Wisconsin-Madison.
At the end of our interview, Seidman reflects on the unique agency The Crimson gave her.
“Enjoy the freedom that you have to choose what you write about,” she says, “because it is a gift.”
Susan D. Chira ’80 thought that she would never edit again after finishing her term as president of The Crimson and starting as a reporter at the New York Times.
“It was heavy,” Chira says of leading The Crimson. “I was still learning about exercising authority, and there were just a lot of stresses about it, so I didn’t go into the Times at all thinking, ‘Oh man, I can’t wait to run something again.’”
“I went to the Times thinking I wanted to be a reporter and writer,” she adds.
But after 15 years of reporting, including several years as a correspondent and bureau chief in Tokyo, Chira rose through the ranks of the Times, from deputy foreign editor in 1997 to deputy executive editor by 2014. Now, she serves as the editor-in-chief of the Marshall Project, a journalism nonprofit that focuses on covering criminal justice news.
Chira says that two impulses made her return to editing and journalism leadership. “I began to feel like I was learning things and I could help other people learn things,” she says. “But also, that I wanted to have kids.”
Chira decided to explore editing because, unlike reporting, it involves less constant and spontaneous travel. “I was a little bit worried about being on the road all the time and being able to bring up kids,” she says.
But once she became an editor, Chira said she found the job’s mentorship aspect to be very rewarding.
“I liked helping people,” Chira says. “Helping people grow as reporters and writers, talking about ideas and brainstorming about how to make stories better, thinking about coverage broadly.”
One of the biggest influences on Chira’s career as an editor overseeing the Times’ international coverage came from her time at Harvard — but not 14 Plympton St.
“Because I was an East Asian Studies major, I had a real conviction that the way Americans covered other cultures could be a hell of a lot better: more sensitive, less ethnocentric, less American-centric,” Chira says.
“I had a lot of ideas about how we could be more respectful and open in exploring how we portrayed other cultures and other people,” she adds. “So I had an opportunity to put some of those ideas into place.”
As the second woman to serve as president in Crimson history, Chira says her time leading The Crimson helped prepare her for a career in leadership within a male-dominated profession.
“Part of The Crimson was learning how to be comfortable being a woman who was supervising men, who were still used to ruling the roost,” Chira says. “Those things came into play in Harvard, and they came into play later in my life, too.”
In addition to facing sexism internally at The Crimson, Chira was also forced to contend with external sexism during her tenure as president.
In 1978, under Chira’s presidency, The Crimson decided a Playboy Magazine advertisement soliciting Harvard students to pose for their “Women of the Ivy League” special issue shouldn’t make it into their daily paper. In turn, Playboy blamed the choice on The Crimson’s female leadership, aiming to generate media attention for the magazine’s upcoming issue through the controversy.
“It was more delicious because a woman was running it,” Chira says. “Might they have mocked The Harvard Crimson for not taking the ad? Hard to say, but the fact that I was a woman made it just perfect in terms of a story.”
But overall, Chira says, most of her colleagues in The Crimson were supportive of the paper’s journalistic mission during her tenure.
“Most people were really collaborative, and cooperative, and excited, and sharing the sense of ‘let’s figure out what’s going on at Harvard, let’s cut through excuses and find out things that people don’t want us to know,’ which is what powers journalism in a really exciting way,” Chira says.
She adds, “There were uncomfortable and nasty moments, but generally, it was a good, exciting, exhausting experience.”
We have just 15 minutes to interview the Secretary of State – the spokesperson tells us it’s a hard stop at 10 a.m. The line goes silent, and we mull over which four questions we’ll prioritize.
Suddenly, a booming voice announces that we’ve been connected with Antony J. Blinken ’84.
Blinken, 61, is at the helm of American foreign policy after more than 30 years working in various policy circles in Washington, D.C. But, as he explains to me, his connection to international affairs is “deeply personal,” as someone who spent many of his formative years outside of the United States. From the age of nine until he began at Harvard, Blinken lived with his mother in Paris, where he says he became a bit of a “junior diplomat.”
Throughout his youth, conflicts like the Vietnam War and the Cold War were at the fore of international attention, spurring “conversations, discussions, and arguments with friends at school,” according to Blinken. As a result, being forced to defend American policy “really stuck with me,” he says.
At the same time, investigative “heroes of the time” like Watergate reporters Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein had a “formative impact” on Blinken. Inspired by them to pursue journalism, he founded the yearbook at his high school. “It hadn’t existed before, to our knowledge, anywhere in France,” Blinken tells me.
Upon returning to the States in 1980, Blinken says he was “immediately attracted” to The Crimson, where he could blend his two passions in journalism and foreign policy — ultimately, Blinken would spend three years penning columns about international affairs.
In our interview, Blinken was quick to characterize his guard of the Editorial Board as idealistic, in no small part viewing themselves as “a continuation of the reformers of the 1960s.” But the same divisive issues that had shaped Blinken’s childhood had faded into the background.
“​​Dorms were co-ed. The Vietnam War was over. The ROTC, at that point in time, had been banished to MIT. Watergate was history,” he recounts. Within the Editorial Board, “there was kind of this struggling to find our own identity: What were the galvanizing, animating issues of our time?”
According to Blinken, the issues that would define his generation at The Crimson would once again be those in the international area: the divestment campaign against South Africa, U.S. intervention in Central America, the fall of the Berlin Wall, and the Tiananmen Square massacre. Incidentally, these were the same conflicts that Blinken personally covered.
After graduating from Harvard, Blinken headed to the New Republic, a liberal political magazine, where he worked as a “reporter-researcher,” a role in which recent graduates “might be getting coffee for the publisher one day and actually writing the cover story the next,” he says.
But, surrounded by some of the best writers of his day, including many Crimson alumni, Blinken says that he succumbed to imposter syndrome. “Part of the challenge of being in a place like the New Republic, or for that matter, The Crimson, is you’re really working with the best of the best, and that puts your own talents and skills in perspective,” Blinken tells us.
With low confidence in his ability to make it into the writing world, Blinken says he “thought going back to school was a good idea.” Ultimately, he would enroll in law school — “a default for people who weren’t quite sure what they wanted to do,” he says — a decision that surprised many of his friends at the time who had marked him as bound for journalistic success.
Even Blinken admits that he didn’t think he had “a profound calling to the law.” Nonetheless, he felt compelled to enter the legal profession after graduating from Columbia Law in 1988. Blinken says that after practicing law for a few years, he “found that it wasn’t for me.”
Blinken’s trajectory ended up going full circle — right back to reporting, outside of the U.S. “I wound up going back to Europe, and I did a lot of freelance writing for a number of different publications to kind of test that out,” he explains.
At this point, it’s past 10 a.m. We’ve reached our “hard stop.”
But Blinken presses on, recounting the production nights in the print shop beneath the floor of The Crimson newsroom. “Some of the happiest hours of my life will be in the shop downstairs,” he admits.
He makes sure to tell us that he “learned more about working with other people, about human relations, in a way, from those endless hours at The Crimson than maybe anyplace else.”
Blinken, at this point, is definitively late to his next meeting, but he continues: “I learned more about writing, about thinking, about explaining than anywhere.”
“And I’m just eternally grateful for it,” Blinken says as he signs off.
Joseph F. Kahn ’87, the executive editor of the New York Times, speaks in a cautious, monotone voice during our interview with only one exception: when asked about the difficult decisions he has made throughout his career.
Suddenly, he is passionately defending the Times’ decision to publish an investigation that led China to block internet access to the Times’ website in 2012. The investigation revealed that the family of Wen Jiabao, China’s prime minister, accumulated billions of dollars in wealth after his ascent to the ruling elite.
Kahn says that a reporter should never withhold the results of investigative reporting out of fear of backlash. “You shouldn’t be a journalist if that’s your thinking,” he says.
But, Kahn concedes, for a news organization, the decision is not always that easy when the publication of one article could result in retaliation against a whole team of reporters.
“That was kind of the case for us in China,” Kahn says. “We had probably a dozen journalists writing about China at that point, but we had one really sensitive and important piece of investigative reporting and the publication of it — many people feared — was going to restrict access or even result in the expulsion of a bunch of other journalists who had nothing to do with that work.”
As he animatedly relays his thoughts on journalistic ethics, it is funny to think how, in Kahn’s college years, he wasn’t sure that journalism would end up being his lifelong career.
“I hope to try my hand at journalism — print journalism — for some time. I won’t be happy until I do, I think,” Kahn said in a 1986 video interview with C-SPAN during his tenure as president of The Crimson. “I’m not sure that’s what I want to do for a career, but I do want to try it.”
In our interview, Kahn says that serving as president of The Crimson was “very good training” for his current role as executive editor of the Times.
“The culture of leadership at The Crimson is a shared responsibility — you have a president, you have a managing editor — but ultimately, you need to figure out a way to develop a consensus about big issues.
It’s not a dictatorship,” Kahn says. “The New York Times, or any good newsroom, also operates with some similar concerns in mind.”
“Although it was a very different era, a very different time in my life, that experience was very relevant to managing any large news organization,” he adds.
Kahn says that reporting for The Crimson also helped prepare him for a career contending with people in power who try to silence the press and sideline journalists.
While covering former Harvard University President Derek C. Bok, Kahn says that Bok ordered his top deputies to stop speaking to The Crimson after growing frustrated with Kahn’s reporting.
“Initially, I was very taken aback by it,” Kahn says.
After getting advice from Crimson alumni, Kahn says the newspaper decided to end every article that would have normally required comment from Bok or the University with a blurb that read: “Because of the decree from President Bok, the administration has refused to answer questions from The Harvard Crimson.”
“Within a week, they had rescinded his decree and then started speaking to us again,” Kahn says.
Kahn adds that the experience taught him that transparency can be a powerful antidote when those in authority attempt to ignore journalists.
“We just immediately shared with our readers, and that ended up having the impact of restoring things to normal,” he says.
When we talk to Jennifer 8. Lee ’98-’99 for the first time, it’s late in the evening in India — a trip 23 years in the making.
After graduating from Harvard, Lee was selected as a Harvard-Yenching Fellow and received a master’s degree at Peking University. “This is when China opened up — this is before China was in the WTO,” she explains. Harvard provided Lee with money for two round-trip flights, including one to return home for the holidays. “Why would you want to go home for the holidays? Like, the whole point is to travel,” Lee says.
Instead, she decided to fly a friend out to China: Adam S. Hickey ’99, the assistant managing editor for the 125th guard and a law student at the time. Lee says that Hickey was initially a bit uncomfortable with the arrangement, but they came to a compromise. “I told him, ‘Don’t worry. When you can afford it, you can take me on a trip to India, but it will be purchasing power parity-adjusted,’” she recalls.
Lee eventually got her trip. “I think it’s a testament to the kinds of friendships that we build at The Crimson because it’s a pretty big bet, right? But I’m like, ‘Don’t worry, we’ll be friends in 23 years,’” Lee says, chuckling.
A long time has passed since she served as The Crimson’s inaugural chair of the Online Board — now the Technology Board — but Lee says her approach to work has changed little. At 57, Lee works across a variety of initiatives in technology, film, and journalism. She has served as vice chair of the Unicode Emoji Subcommittee, organizer of the MisinfoCon conference, and CEO of a digital publishing house.
“I like being pretty good at different things,” she explains. “The Crimson was one of the first institutions where you could really try your hand at different types of skill sets.” Indeed, at The Crimson, Lee also worked on the Photography Board — now the Multimedia Board — and was elected vice president of the 125th Guard. But it’s her work on The Crimson’s website that Lee remembers the most fondly.
Lee entered Harvard right before the dot-com boom really took off. As she repeatedly tells us during a Zoom call, things were different back then — “pre-Google, pre-Wifi, pre-cellphones-being-popular” — and that meant that there was a lot of unclaimed digital turf.
In her years in college, The Crimson “had a custom version of Internet Explorer that was branded for Harvard,” Lee says. “Instead of an E, it had an H, sort of rotated.”
In those days, “the internet was a big deal for the first time,” Lee says. And in the spring of 1997, The Crimson chose to capitalize on the growth of the internet. The president of The Crimson at the time, Joshua J. Schanker ’98, hired Andrew Prihodko ’98, an undergrad at the time, to build The Crimson’s first website using the Perl programming language. “I don’t know why, but back then we all used Perl — it was really janky,” Lee says, laughing.
But there was another hitch to the website, besides the underequipped coding language. “Someone had registered ‘harvardcrimson.com’ — someone not in our orbit,” Lee says. So, The Crimson had to settle with “thecrimson.com,” which is “kind of lame,” Lee muses. “I still kind of wonder who has ‘harvardcrimson.com’ and wonder if we could get it.”
In the fall of that year, The Crimson launched the Online Board to manage the arduous daily ritual of “copying text and then uploading it” in addition to keeping up the website. Previously, during a gap year, Lee had worked at the New York Times and managed its website, learning Perl along the way. “That was also very janky and also very manual,” she tells us. But, armed with that experience, Lee knew how to run a newspaper’s website.
At that time, Lee recalls that very few people were digitally literate. One of The Crimson’s first digital projects was uploading its course review database, the Coffee Guide. Today, the College uses the Q Guide for course evaluations, which Lee explains “got ramped up in a big way precisely because the professors hated the Coffee Guide,” she explains.
Students, professors, and administrators alike browsed with confidence, thinking they were anonymous. But “we could see in our logs what people were searching for and where they were searching,” says Lee. “You could see professors looking for their own names inside the Coffee Guide.”
To Lee, her time at The Crimson is emblematic of the type of work that she has done for the last two decades, of observing social and technical changes and rolling with them. “There are these sort of ‘phase transitions,’ where no one knows anything,” she says, listing the internet boom, the rise of social media, and AI as examples.
“We’re just making it up, and it’s a fucking land grab right now,” Lee says. “So those are fun!” she says, laughing.
Imtiyaz H. Delawala ’03 is the last person you’d ever expect to find breaking and entering. And yet, late one night in college, that’s exactly what the former Crimson president was doing.
His old classmates tell us Delawala has been the image of professionalism since he was 19. “We would always make fun of him for how he was always perfectly clean-shaven, and his hair was always perfectly trimmed,” says David C. Newman ’03, one of Delawala’s executive editors. “He didn’t own jeans. He only wore khaki pants.”
But Delawala broke character as part of an escalating prank war between The Crimson and The Harvard Lampoon, a semi-secret Sorrento Square social organization that used to occasionally publish a so-called humor magazine. That night, Delawala led a raid into the Lampoon’s 44 Bow St. castle to take back stolen Crimson memorabilia.
“I’m one of the few Crimson presidents, I believe, who has actually entered that hallowed building, and I was able to leave it with many, many items,” Delawala chuckles. “I will give them credit for having an interesting little playhouse.”
Delawala’s passion for journalism — which he now works in professionally — began at The Crimson, where he started as a junior beat reporter covering the Cambridge City Council. He quickly rose through the ranks of the organization, standing out as “a very quiet but very well-respected leader,” according to Garrett M. Graff ’03, another executive editor in Delawala’s guard.
When Delawala decided to shoot for president in his junior year of college, he recalls internal pressures pushing him in opposite directions during the selection process — experiencing a “big push internally” to run, but finding that advocating for representation was often “a point of contention.” After a heated election, Delawala was welcomed as the first person of color on record elected president of The Crimson’s 129th guard. “It was definitely celebrated and it was something that was noted as an important milestone,” he says.
Delawala’s presidency — which began just months after the 9/11 terrorist attacks — came at an important time for The Crimson, but also for the nation as a whole. “I think it was meaningful that a Muslim-American was elected president of The Crimson at that time,” Newman reflects. “Because The Crimson president is a campus leader, and definitely a leader in journalism.”
As president of The Crimson, Delawala stood out for his quiet passion and constant composure. “He did a great job dealing with the big personalities and territorial nature of The Crimson,” Newman says. Delawala was always the first to arrive at 14 Plympton St. each morning, and he spent many late nights editing and looking after his pet turtle — who spent Delawala’s term living in a tank in his office.
During his term, Delawala worked to reach out to campus affinity groups and expand diversity in The Crimson’s staff and coverage. “Being a person of color as the president of The Crimson allowed me to approach outside student groups in a different way than anyone prior to me could,” he says. “And speak with candor about our efforts on diversity and inclusion.”
Delawala was also one of the first Crimson presidents to be a member of The Crimson’s financial aid program, which provides compensation for time spent dedicated to Crimson work for students who receive significant financial aid from the College. He tells us his presidency wouldn’t have been possible without it. “It allowed me to fully embrace my time at the Crimson without having that worry in the back of my head of ‘Oh, I should be spending 10, or 15, or 20 hours working,’” he says.
Delawala wanted to give other students this same opportunity, and his flagship initiative as president was expanding The Crimson’s financial aid program. Over the last two decades, enrollment in The Crimson’s financial aid program has skyrocketed: growing from only 10-15 students when Delawala first became president to over 200 students today. Both Graff and Newman trace this growth back to the initiatives Delawala started while president.
After leaving The Crimson, Delawala knew that he wanted to work as a journalist for ABC News. While waiting for a position at ABC to open up, Delawala moved to Israel to copy edit for the Israeli publication Haaretz — something he thinks back on as a journalism “study abroad.” Delawala moved back to the U.S. half a year later to work for ABC, where he now serves as a senior producer.
“He’s doing great at age 42,” says Newman. “He doesn’t look a day over 35, which is exactly how old he’s looked since he was 19.” Even two decades after graduation, Delawala and his friends from The Crimson still keep in touch. “What’s great about The Crimson is that it really does build lifelong friendships and relationships,” Delawala says. He tells us how he and his former editing staff have a group mailing list they use to send each other life updates. “It’s kind of our very tiny version of Newstalk,” says Delawala, referring to The Crimson’s internal mailing list.
We got a glimpse into this myself after a quick email requesting photos from Delawala and Newman turned into a 10-message-long chain of them sharing photos and memories from their time on The Crimson.
“I should also note that no turtles were harmed in the production of The Crimson,” Newman writes after our interview. “After our June 2003 graduation, Imti’s turtle traveled to North Carolina and was released in a pond.”
Ravi Agrawal ’05-’06 doesn’t like to be categorized. When Agrawal was asked “which side of the fence” he was on during The Crimson Editorial Board’s initiation, he burst out laughing.
“I just didn’t understand the question,” says Agrawal. “And then I understood that they were trying to say pick left or right.” Agrawal grins, explaining that the question referred to his political leaning.
“Now, of course, as a journalist, I refuse to think in left and right terms,” Agrawal says. “If I had to undergo the whole thing now I would have just told them to go and take a hike.”
Agrawal has always known he wanted to be a journalist, he says.
“I mean, obviously, when I was five, or six, or seven or eight I wanted to be an astronaut,” he says matter-of-factly, “but as soon as I was older, in my late teens, and I had a sense of what my skills were, what I was actually interested in, what was actually feasible for me — that’s when I began to think of being a journalist.”
Agrawal was drawn to journalism by its ability to engage with the “immense complexities” of social and political life. Growing up, he recalls the 1991 assassination of Indian Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi; for days, Agrawal says, all of India was “glued to the news.”
But Agrawal was most captivated by how the assassination was being covered by the BBC, he says.
“It occurred to me that journalism was reporting the news, but it was much more than just reporting the news. It was dealing with topics with immense gravity and doing so very sensitively,” he says.
When he moved to the United States and came to Harvard in 2001, Agrawal knew that he wanted to engage with these topics himself — though he could not expect having to confront them so soon. Just days after Agrawal’s arrival to campus, the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks shocked the nation and the world.
“My journalistic consciousness grew in the shadow of 9/11 and the war in Iraq,” says Agrawal. As a beat reporter for The Crimson, Agrawal always sought to relate his coverage of campus issues to international political trends.
Later on, Agrawal was able to write on international conflicts directly when he shifted from news reporting to writing op-eds.
“The Crimson is, at its heart, a campus newspaper. And I loved it for what it was, but it also taught me that it was covering the campus for the world,” he says.
Outside of The Crimson, Agrawal used broadcast reporting to engage his peers in international affairs more directly. He started a political talk show in college, which he says was “loosely affiliated” with the Institute of Politics, where he interviewed students about their opinions on international issues.
Agrawal says that recording the first episode — a news anchor interview presented in MTV style that focused on students’ opinions on the war in Iraq — was a highlight of his time at Harvard. “It was a very vibrant, forceful debate,” says Agrawal.
After graduation, Agrawal dove full-on into the world of international journalism. He began working at CNN International, a job he describes as a “24/7 crash course in what’s going on around the world.” After 11 years at CNN, Agrawal began working for the international news magazine Foreign Policy, where he now serves as editor-in-chief.
Though he now boasts a 17-year career in journalism, Agrawal traces much of his “professional” reporting knowledge back to The Crimson. “The Crimson is at par with a lot of professional outlets I’ve worked at,” Agrawal says. He sits for a second, then reconsiders. “Let me rephrase that. The Crimson is a professional outlet.”
Agrawal tells us how, the night of his Crimson initiation, he walked out of 14 Plympton St. “elated.”
“I thought it was the coolest thing ever to be on the Editorial Board of The Crimson.”
***
The three of us are all at markedly different stages of our time at The Crimson. One of us has only a single semester left of college; another is just finishing her first semester as a Crimson editor; and the third is smack in the middle — exactly halfway through his time on The Crimson and at college.
In our time at The Crimson, this institution has felt larger than us: How do we find our place in a newspaper that views itself as embedded into the fabric of American journalism? How can we, as reporters, live up to the legacy of our alumni? How do we use our platform for good?
But talking with these former Crimson editors reminds us that our anxieties have been shared by generations before us.
Even our initial hesitance to request interviews from such prominent figures is something that Agrawal relates to. “Harvard’s a very intimidating place, and I learned that it can seem like there are a lot of doors, a lot of closed doors,” he says. “But you’ll only know if they’re closed if you knock them down.”
Kahn reminds us that our journalism matters, from the bombshell investigations to the small scoops. Reflecting on his years covering the Harvard Medical School and former University President Bok, Kahn says that it was an “intoxicating experience as a young person of creating journalism that has an impact, and that people read and talk about.”
And what will we take with us when we leave this building? Though The Crimson is an institution, it is, at its heart, a community. As Graham tells us, “You’ll get the same answer to every old person to whom you ask that question: my favorite memory is the people who were my colleagues.”
All of us — some sooner, some later — will have to say goodbye to this little brick building on 14 Plympton. But the stories will endure. Not just the stories we write, but the stories we have lived, and the stories yet to come.
Correction: April 28, 2023
A previous version of this article incorrectly stated that the The Crimson was founded in 1878. In fact, it was founded in 1873.
—Magazine writer Miles J. Herszenhorn can be reached at miles.herszenhorn@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @mherszenhorn.
— Magazine writer Adelaide E. Parker can be reached at adelaide.parker@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @adelaide_prkr
— Magazine writer Andy Z. Wang can be reached at andy.wang@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @byAZWang.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard School of Public Health launched the Thich Nhat Hanh Center for Mindfulness on Wednesday with funding from a $25 million gift from an anonymous donor.
HSPH announced the donation — one of the largest single gifts in the school’s history — and creation of the center in a Monday press release. The center will focus on advancing scientific research and evidence-based approaches to mindfulness, which is the practice of centering oneself in the present moment.
The Thich Nhat Hanh Center aims to empower individuals worldwide to live a fulfilling and happy life through education and training in mindfulness practices, according to the press release. Its primary focuses are on nutrition and the environment.
“We are thrilled to host this groundbreaking center,” HSPH Dean of the Faculty Michelle A. Williams said in the press release. “In public health, we work at population scale — we aim to reach and uplift entire communities.”
“The Thich Nhat Hanh Center for Mindfulness in Public Health will operate in that spirit,” she added.
The center’s name honors Thích Nhất Hạnh, a Zen master, Buddhist monk, teacher, author, and peace activist who died in 2022. Traveling through the United States and Europe, Nhất Hạnh was a major influence on the practice of mindfulness and worked with civic leaders, including Martin Luther King Jr.
Throughout Nhất Hạnh’s life, he worked to further social justice and educate future Buddhists. In the early 1960s, in response to the Vietnam War, Nhất Hạnh founded the School of Youth and Social Service, a grassroots education organization that promoted nonviolence and provided relief to Vietnamese villages.
The Thich Nhat Hanh Center celebrated its launch through a Wednesday symposium at Harvard Medical School’s Joseph B. Martin Conference Center. The all-day event brought together professors, researchers, and “practitioners of mindfulness” for a series of panels related to the benefits of mindfulness and well-being, according to the press release.
According to the press release, there were nearly 25,000 research papers published in peer-reviewed journals on mindfulness by early 2023.
Still, the emerging field seeks additional research into the practice of mindfulness and its impact on well-being. Currently, the Thich Nhat Hanh Center is recruiting additional faculty and further exploring its mission by working with researchers across HSPH, the University, and the globe.
Harvey Fineberg, co-chair of the center’s board of directors, praised HSPH for its “commitment to extend research and education at the intersection of individual well-being and population health” through the Thich Nhat Hanh Center.
“The establishment of the Thich Nhat Hanh Center for Mindfulness in Public Health reflects the School’s comprehensive approach to advancing health, and I am confident it will make many important contributions to the field,” Fineberg, who is also the president of the Gordon and Betty Moore Foundation, said in the press release.
Some of the center’s new initiatives include “Minding Our Future,” an interdisciplinary research program to help people live healthier lives as they age through daily practices of mindfulness.
Another program is called “Eat, Move & Live Mindfully,” and it focuses on developing a youth curriculum to build healthy habits in nutrition, physical activity, and mindfulness for young people. Finally, the center hopes to further a mindful eating program at Harvard and outside of the University.
“The Thich Nhat Hanh Center for Mindfulness in Public Health has the potential for tremendous impact on both personal and planetary health,” Williams wrote in an emailed statement. “I look forward to many decades of success.”
—Staff writer Marina Qu can be reached at marina.qu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @MingyiQu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
A warm welcome to one president, and an ambivalent goodbye to another.
Harvard faculty who responded to The Crimson’s annual survey of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences said they were largely satisfied with FAS Dean Claudine Gay’s tenure and recent election to Harvard’s presidency.
Just over 61 percent of surveyed faculty said they were “extremely” or “somewhat” satisfied with Gay’s election to the Harvard presidency.
In contrast, faculty respondents offered mixed opinions on the tenure of Harvard’s outgoing president, Lawrence S. Bacow, with only 42 percent of faculty respondents indicating that they were satisfied with his tenure.
The Crimson distributed its survey to more than 1,300 members of the FAS and the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, including tenured and tenure-track professors, non-tenure-track lecturers, and preceptors. The survey collected demographic information and opinions on a range of topics, including Harvard’s academic atmosphere, life as a professor, and political issues.
The anonymous 124-question survey received 386 responses, including 234 fully-completed responses and 152 partially-completed responses. It was open to new responses between March 23 and April 14. Responses were not adjusted for possible selection bias.
The first installment of The Crimson’s faculty survey focused on faculty opinions on the controversy surrounding professor John L. Comaroff, as well as Harvard’s Title IX procedures. As Gay prepares to assume Bacow’s position in Massachusetts Hall, this second installment explores faculty views on Harvard’s top administrators.
FAS spokesperson Rachael Dane and University spokesperson Jason A. Newton declined to comment on the survey results.
Surveyed faculty indicated general satisfaction with Gay’s tenure as FAS dean and viewed her election to the presidency optimistically, while offering decidedly more lukewarm opinions of Bacow’s term.
Just over 34 percent of surveyed faculty said they were extremely satisfied with Gay’s election, with 27 percent saying they were somewhat satisfied. More than 9 percent said they were somewhat dissatisfied and more than 8 percent said they were extremely dissatisfied with Gay’s election.
Just under 69 percent of ladder faculty said they were satisfied with Gay’s election to the presidency, compared to approximately 53 percent of non-ladder faculty. Around 21 percent of ladder faculty said they were dissatisfied, compared to 15 percent of non-ladder faculty.
In total, a similar majority of respondents — 58 percent — said they were satisfied with Gay’s tenure, with 25 percent and 33 percent indicating they were “extremely” or “somewhat” satisfied, respectively. Under 13 percent said they were somewhat dissatisfied, compared to approximately 9 percent saying they were extremely dissatisfied.
More than 67 percent of ladder faculty said they were satisfied with Gay’s tenure as FAS Dean, compared to approximately 49 percent of non-ladder faculty. Roughly equal percentages of ladder and non-ladder faculty respondents — 21 percent and 22 percent, respectively— said they were dissatisfied with Gay’s tenure.
When it came to the current president, a plurality of respondents — just under 35 percent — were neither satisfied nor dissatisfied with Bacow’s tenure. Just over 14 percent of faculty said they were extremely satisfied, while more than 28 percent said they were somewhat satisfied. More than 17 percent of faculty said they were somewhat dissatisfied with Bacow’s tenure, and approximately 5 percent said they were extremely dissatisfied.
In the 2018 faculty survey, conducted shortly after President Bacow was announced as the University’s 29th president, around 46 percent of surveyed faculty said they were satisfied with the choice while 46 percent said they were neither satisfied nor dissatisfied.
This year, a plurality of respondents — more than 37 percent — did not agree or disagree that Bacow had represented their interests well. Nearly 34 percent of respondents said Bacow had done so, with just over 29 percent disagreeing. In comparison, 48 percent of respondents said Gay represented their interests well, with approximately 28 percent disagreeing.
The Social Sciences division — from which both Bacow and Gay hail — had the highest percentage of faculty who said Bacow and Gay represented their interests, with figures of 40 percent and 63 percent, respectively. Surveyed faculty from the Social Sciences division also approved of the selection of Gay by the largest margin — nearly 69 percent.
Similar to the reaction to the December announcement of her election, many faculty celebrated Gay’s election to the presidency in an open-response question asking faculty their opinions on her selection.
One respondent praised Gay’s tenure as FAS dean, writing, “As an FAS Dean, Claudine Gay has been an effective administrator and she acted with integrity in tough situations. The best senior administrator I have ever served under.”
“She was an exceptional Dean and will be an equally exceptional president,” another wrote.
One respondent offered a more ambiguous reaction, writing that Gay “is razor sharp and an impressive consensus builder but I have yet to sense whether there is anything like a bold agenda.”
On the other hand, some faculty disapproved of Gay’s election, with one respondent writing, “Dean Gay does not support the sciences at Harvard, and we are becoming a second-rate research institution as a result.”
Two respondents took issue with her interactions with non-tenure-track faculty, with one writing that they were “concerned by her lack of support,” and another writing, “The things she’s said and done regarding non-tenure-track faculty are egregious and profoundly disrespectful.”
“She acts like she sees us as second-class citizens here, and has participated in initiatives and committees that have actively and deliberately curtailed our professional opportunities here at Harvard,” the response added.
Around 90 percent of faculty said the gap between Harvard faculty and administration had widened over the years, with just under 10 percent saying it had not. More than 71 percent of respondents said faculty should have more power in FAS and University governance, while less than 1 percent of respondents said they should have less.
Approximately 66 percent of respondents said faculty authority had waned over the past several years, while 2 percent of respondents said it had increased. Just under 32 percent of respondents said faculty authority had remained the same. A greater proportion of ladder than non-ladder respondents — just under 78 percent compared to over 52 percent — said faculty authority had diminished.
Just over 52 percent of respondents said they had attended a faculty meeting within the past six months, but approximately 68 percent of respondents said they did not feel it was an effective forum for faculty to express their interests.
A majority of respondents — nearly 58 percent — said that they preferred the in-person meeting format, compared to 42 percent of respondents who preferred the virtual format. Those who had attended a faculty meeting within the past six months indicated greater preference for in-person meetings — approximately 67 percent — while a majority of those who had not — 51 percent — preferred virtual meetings.
After briefly returning to an in-person setting following the pandemic, Gay announced in October 2022 that FAS meetings — with the exception of the year’s final meeting — would be held virtually going forward.
As Gay prepares to assume the presidency on July 1, some faculty spoke to The Crimson this spring about what they wished her successor as FAS dean would prioritize. Surveyed faculty were also asked about their aspirations for the next dean in an open-response question.
In a free-response question, faculty offered a range of candidates for the next FAS dean from across the University. Four respondents suggested Government professor Danielle S. Allen, a former Massachuetts gubernatorial candidate who leads the Edmond and Lily Safra Center for Ethics, as a candidate.
Four other respondents proposed current Arts and Humanities Dean Robin E. Kelsey and three proposed Science Dean Christopher W. Stubbs. Two proposed Harvard College Dean Rakesh Khurana, and one suggested Social Sciences Dean Lawrence D. Bobo. One respondent objected specifically to Kelsey, one to Stubbs, and two to Bobo.
Reached via email, Stubbs declined to comment on respondents’ answers. Bobo, Kelsey, and Allen did not respond to requests for comment.
In an email, College spokesperson Jonathan Palumbo referred The Crimson to a February interview with Khurana, who strongly signaled at the time that he plans to remain in his current position.
“The answer remains the same,” Palumbo wrote.
In recent interviews with The Crimson, Stubbs declined to comment on whether he was interested in taking the helm of the FAS, while Bobo said he did not want the position. Kelsey has not been available for an interview with The Crimson this semester.
Two respondents called for an external candidate, with one suggesting choosing a candidate from Yale or the University of Chicago.
Only 21 percent of respondents said they felt adequately included in the selection process for the next FAS dean, while more than 42 percent of respondents said they did not feel adequately included. More than half of non-ladder respondents — 51 percent — said they did not feel adequately included, compared to 39 percent of ladder faculty.
The Crimson’s annual faculty survey for 2023 was conducted via Qualtrics, an online survey platform. The survey was open from March 23, 2023 to April 14, 2023.
A link to the anonymous survey was sent to 1,310 FAS and SEAS faculty members through emails sourced in February 2021 from Harvard directory information and updated in subsequent years. The pool included individuals on Harvard’s Connections database with FAS affiliations, including tenured, tenure-track, and non-tenure-track faculty.
In total, 386 faculty replied, with 234 filling the survey completely and 152 partially completing the survey.
To check for response bias, The Crimson compared respondents’ self-reported demographic data with publicly available data on FAS faculty demographics for the 2021-22 academic year. Survey respondents’ demographic data generally match these publicly available data.
In The Crimson’s survey, 47 percent of respondents identified themselves as male and 45 percent as female, with 2 percent selecting “genderqueer/non-binary,” 1 percent for “other,” and 5 percent for “prefer not to say.” According to the Faculty of Arts and Sciences’ 2022 Report, 39 percent of FAS faculty as a whole are female.
53 percent of respondents to The Crimson’s survey were tenured or tenure-track faculty and 47 percent were non-tenure-track faculty. According to the FAS data, 58 percent of faculty are tenure-track and 38 percent are non-tenure-track.
31 percent of survey respondents reported their ethnic or racial background as something other than white or Caucasian, with 9 percent opting not to report their race. According to the FAS data, 27 percent of faculty are non-white.
—Staff writer Rahem D. Hamid can be reached at rahem.hamid@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Elias J. Schisgall can be reached at elias.schisgall@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @eschisgall.
News
Harvard Affiliates Protest Book Bans, Laws Against Critical Race Theory
News
Jane Kim Appointed Interim Dean of Harvard School of Public Health
News
New Hampshire Man Arrested for Planting Fake Bomb on Harvard Campus in Bitcoin Extortion Attempt
News
Jeffrey Epstein Met With Harvard Professor Martin Nowak and Noam Chomsky in 2015 in Harvard Office
News
Woman Injured by Falling Equipment at Harvard Square T Station
Four Harvard affiliates will receive the 2023 Harvard Medal for “extraordinary service” to the University, the Harvard Alumni Association announced last Thursday.
Wellesley College President Paula A. Johnson ’80, former HAA Director Philip W. Lovejoy, businessman Antonio Madero, and federal judge Rya W. Zobel ’53 will be presented with medals during Harvard Alumni Day on June 2.
Awarded for the first time in 1981, the Harvard Medal seeks to recognize service in “as many different areas of University life as can be imagined,” including leadership, teaching, and fundraising, according to the HAA’s website.
Johnson, who has served as president of Wellesley since 2016, wrote in an emailed statement that it was “an honor to be recognized in this way, and to be in the company of such inspiring and accomplished pathbreakers, leaders and dedicated Harvard citizens.”
A graduate of Harvard College, Medical School, and the School of Public Health, Johnson was previously chief of the Division of Women’s Health and founding executive director of the Mary Horrigan Connors Center for Women’s Health and Gender Biology at the Brigham and Women’s Hospital in Boston.
Johnson also served as a professor in Women’s Health at HMS and a professor of epidemiology at HSPH.
“My mentors at Harvard helped to shape my trajectory in medicine and research and taught me I had a responsibility to question scientific paradigms,” she wrote. “I wanted to carry forward their commitment to educating those who would make a difference.”
Madero, a graduate of Harvard Business School, founded and served as president of the Fundación México en Harvard, which provides scholarships and loans to Mexican students attending Harvard’s graduate schools. He also helped create the David Rockefeller Center for Latin American Studies and established the Antonio Madero Professor for the Study of Mexico.
Previously, Madero served on Harvard’s Committee on University Resources and the Regional Advisory Board for Latin America at HBS.
Zobel, a lawyer and federal judge, is a graduate of Radcliffe College and Harvard Law School.
Since graduating from Harvard, Zobel has served as a member of the Board of Overseers and on several visiting committees within the University, including in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, Harvard Kennedy School, and Arnold Arboretum.
Zobel also presided over the trial of former Harvard chemistry professor Charles M. Lieber, who was convicted of lying to federal investigators over his ties to China in one of Harvard’s most high-profile court cases in recent history. She sentenced Lieber to six months of house arrest on Wednesday.
Lovejoy, a former executive director of the HAA and associate vice president of alumni affairs and development, said in an interview that he was “thrilled” to receive this “great honor.”
During his time as HAA executive director, Lovejoy sought to improve alumni participation in elections for the Harvard Board of Overseers and HAA elected directors. In 2022, he helped stage the inaugural Harvard Alumni Day.
Lovejoy also sat on more than eight alumni committees responsible for selecting Harvard Medal recipients in prior years.
“Having been involved in helping to identify medalists over the years, I never thought, ever, I would be in their company,” Lovejoy said. “So when I got that phone call, it just kind of blew me away.”
“They’re just extraordinary people who’ve done so much over their lives for the world and for Harvard,” he said. “That the committee felt that I deserve to be in their company was really quite meaningful to me.”
—Staff writer Claire Yuan can be reached at claire.yuan@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @claireyuan33.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Offices of the President and Provost of Harvard University and the Edmond and Lily Safra Center for Ethics held a symposium to honor outgoing Director Danielle S. Allen on Wednesday.
During the past eight years of her leadership, Allen established several major research initiatives at the center. Two years ago, Allen also made history as the first Black woman to run for governor of Massachusetts — though she dropped out before the primary elections.
Harvard President Lawrence S. Bacow delivered welcoming remarks, commending Allen as the “ultimate boundary crosser” and “the exemplar of what we would hope we would see University professors doing” and praising the center’s work.
“The work of the center has never been more important than it is today.” Bacow said. “You just have to pick up a newspaper to see examples of those who would benefit from more attention to ethical leadership, to be schooled in what it means to put ethics at the center of everything that they do.”
The event also honored Lily Safra, the center’s namesake, who died last year.
In remarks honoring Safra, Allen recalled the “quality of her attention” and her message to “feel, acknowledge, and work on behalf of human dignity,” which she said continues to inspire the center’s work.
The symposium also included two panel discussions. The first featured Tina Blythe, Natalie M. Kofler, and professor Alison J. Simmons who lead the Democratic Knowledge Project, the Scientific Citizenship Initiative, and the Embedded EthiCS project, respectively.
The second panel focused on the Justice, Health, and Democracy Impact Initiative — a project inaugurated by Allen in 2015 with work on topics including genetics, alternative emergency response programs, and economic dignity.
Panelist and professor Nien-hê Hsieh praised the initiative, saying it “enabled empirically-trained scholars to become comfortable working through conversations about values with philosophers and ethicists, and vice versa.”
Hsieh added the initiative’s work was particularly important at the height of the pandemic because it brought together public health experts and empirical data to provide clarity to local leaders on mitigating Covid-19 more effectively.
“The recommendations were then adopted at every level of government,” added Hsieh. “So here you see then not just the development of a new way of pushing policymaking that is grounded with regard to justice, health, and democracy, but really the idea of impact.”
The event also featured pre-recorded remarks from University Provost Alan M. Garber ’76, who thanked Allen for her contributions to the center.
“When she was appointed, I asked Danielle to continue developing the center’s intellectual vision and to build up the crossback of a community of scholars to carry that vision up,” said Garber. “She has done just that.”
In closing remarks, Allen expressed gratitude for the center’s affiliates and lauded its mission.
“Every human generation has to wrestle with hard ethical dilemmas, old ones, and sometimes new ones, those we’re now facing with technology, for instance. And because that’s the case, because this work is permanent and continuous, the single most important contribution there is, is to teach rising generations,” she said.
Though Allen will step down as the center’s director, she said she will still remain at Harvard.
“People keep asking me, where are you going?” Allen said. “I’m not going anywhere.”
—Staff writer Rysa Tahilramani can be reached at rysa.tahilramani@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Linda Zhang can be reached at linda.zhang@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Tennessee State Rep. Justin J. Pearson and March For Our Lives co-founder David M. Hogg ’23 discussed the dynamics of state politics, gun reform, and right-wing criticism at a Wednesday evening Harvard Institute of Politics forum.
Wednesday’s event comes three weeks after Pearson and Tennessee State Rep. Justin Jones, both Democrats, were expelled from and later reappointed to the Tennessee House of Representatives after leading gun reform protests on the house floor in violation of the body’s decorum rules.
Following the expulsions of Pearson and Jones, who are both Black men, multiple members of the Tennessee House of Representatives characterized the moves as racist, noting that Tennessee State Rep. Gloria Johnson, a white woman, was not expelled after participating in the protests on the floor.
Pearson said during media availability prior to the event that expulsions of Democratic lawmakers are emblematic of a larger trend of silencing political opposition in the United States.
“That’s exactly what we’re seeing, and it’s terrifying,” Pearson said in response to a Crimson reporter’s question. “It is to the detriment of democracy where we have duly elected representatives being silenced by people in positions of power, who are abusing their authority and using it as a bludgeon to silence the voices of people they disagree with.”
Pearson said the situation in Tennessee is “a signal to other states about how to destroy democracy.” Following the expulsion votes in Tennessee, Republicans in Montana moved to silence State Rep. Zooey Zephyr, a Democrat, after she advocated for medical care for trans youth.
“This attempt to silence people is a part of a trend, but it’s really a part of the culture of the Republican party in this country right now,” Pearson said.
Pearson said he believes the “silencing” of elected representatives can be attributed both to legislative leadership and procedures, adding that he believes there should be an “arbiter” who decides the validity of objections made by representatives.
“The abuse of the rules can lead to the silencing of people — I’ve experienced this and Rep. Jones has as well — where we say something that people disagree with and then they can object and then the House members can vote on whether or not we continue speaking or not,” he said.
“That’s really terrifying, because again it’s silencing the voices of people who’ve been duly elected to represent their constituents,” he added, noting that no one is required to confirm whether an objection is legitimate before it proceeds to a vote.
During the forum, Pearson and Hogg discussed progress in gun reform after the March 27 shooting at the Covenant School, a Christian elementary school in Nashville, Tennessee. The forum was moderated by Harvard Kennedy School professor Archon Fung, director of the school’s Ash Center for Democratic Governance and Innovation.
“There have been, in our country, more mass shootings than there have been days this year,” Pearson said. “And so Groundhog Day is existing in perpetuity in America.”
“I understand people’s apprehension and fear that enough is not changing quickly but the NRA-endorsed governor did sign an executive order expanding universal background checks, is seeking to do a special session in relation to gun violence,” he added.
Hogg highlighted election trends among younger voters, arguing that increasing youth turnout in each election will result in gradual change in gun reform.
“The movement is growing because our generation is coming in power. Young people are not being indoctrinated by their teachers to vote a certain way, they’re being indoctrinated by the fact that they have feared for their lives every single day in their schools in a state that systemically failed to protect them,” he said.
An early release of the IOP’s biannual poll of young Americans released following the Nashville shooting showed that 63 percent of youth in the U.S. support stricter gun laws.
During media availability, Pearson was asked by a Crimson reporter about criticism from right-wing outlets surrounding his authenticity and public persona.
“Yeah, I don’t typically respond to racists and the racist who said that, I think he just got fired,” Pearson said.
“What we are about, and what we are fighting for is really something more powerful,” Pearson said during the forum.
Hogg and Pearson both called on students in the audience to run for elected positions and get involved in activism at all levels on issues ranging from gun control to voter rights.
“I’m here to tell you this revolution is not gonna come from the Big Three, Goldman Sachs, or any other investment bank,” Hogg said, referring to the “Big Three” consulting firms McKinsey & Company, Bain & Company, and Boston Consulting Group.
“We have enough investment bankers and consultants,” he added.
—Staff writer Thomas J. Mete can be reached at thomas.mete@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @thomasjmete.
—Staff writer Neil H. Shah can be reached at neil.shah@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @neilhshah15.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Spring marks the time when we reclaim the Yard and relish the fresh air outside after being cooped up cramming studying hard. Here’s Flyby’s take on the common Yard activities, so you can gauge if your favorite outdoor pastime is Flyby-approved, of course.
Naps in a Hammock
At the top of the hierarchy is sleeping soundly in a hammock. A nice day means a mid-day nap outside is acceptable, and nothing beats a nap in the sunshine. There’s no need to search for loops of relaxing nature sounds to fall asleep to on YouTube when the Yard can provide you with the pink noise of birds chirping. The Earth is at your feet, and the possibilities are endless. In my experience, the only downside is that I wake up so rested and strut around thinking that I am embodying Sleeping Beauty when in reality I have the lines from the hammock covering my face and arms. That’s okay, though, because that means that the nap hit home, and remember that if people are judging, they hate us ‘cause they ain’t us. Pass out in the Lamont basement while my three final papers are waiting to be written? No, thank you. I choose peace, i.e., a hammock nap.
Picnic
Happiness is having a picnic with your friends, eating delicious food, and spreading laughter all around. It’s a nice change from being confined to dining halls all year during Cambridge’s seemingly never-ending cold season. If you’re looking for inspiration, try Pinterest for ideas about how to take your picnic to the next level with elaborate charcuterie boards, fruit arrangements, and fresh flowers. While I love the cottagecore aesthetic, I adore how picnics bring food, friends, and sunshine together.
Spikeball
Spikeball is an awesome and action-packed game to play in the Yard. I wish I could be as joyous and free as the zestful and glowing people playing Spikeball in the Yard. If I possessed even a fraction of the energy that they have, I would be unstoppable. People take their Spikeball very seriously, and I know a good number of competitive people who get so dedicated that they create a Spikeball bracket. Overall, as a classic lawn game that puts a twist on volleyball. Spikeball is the perfect way to get up and moving in the Yard.
Lounge on Top of the Widener Steps
If you want an ideal vantage point, you can climb up the stairs of Widener to reach the two side posts. There, you can sit and observe the Yard with a very low likelihood of being interrupted. That makes it a great place to have a deep debrief with your friends or even get creative by doing something artsy, like painting. One thing to note is that the stone is hard and can become uncomfortable, and even though some of us are becoming concerningly desensitized to pain, it may be best to keep your time here short. Also, maybe this is just me and my fear of getting reprimanded that goes hand-in-hand with my tendency to instantly tear up when someone raises their voice at me, but I’m always on edge that I will get called out by Securitas for being up there.
Ultimate Frisbee
I admit, I may be a somewhat biased hater of ultimate frisbee because of my ongoing count of how many times people have almost killed me with a frisbee. Moving past my near-death experiences, I can see the allure of bringing the heat for ultimate frisbee. After all, the more ultimate frisbee training you get in the Yard, the more ready you will be to make your House proud in intramural ultimate frisbee. Therefore, Flyby will let it pass, but it certainly isn’t earning one of the top spots in the hierarchy.
We spend far too much time in windowless lecture halls, sadly. Luckily, the shift to spring brings plenty of opportunities to get outside and get some stress out, so turn that frown upside down!
