News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Burning forests, flooding homes, and raging famine. The impending doom of climate change is scarcely a revelatory fact. The world — at least most of it — has come to the consensus that we are living on borrowed time, and that we ought to do something about it.
Since fossil fuels are one of the greatest contributors to climate change, alternatives such as electricity are in high demand. The use of electric vehicles has been endorsed by celebrities, subsidized by governments, and made the subject of research and teaching by our very own institution — and that support is well-earned.
With increased demand for electric vehicles and the batteries used to power them, the World Bank has estimated that production of battery metals will increase by up to sixfold by 2050.
What many people might not know is that two thirds of the world’s cobalt — the key metal used to make these batteries — comes from the Democratic Republic of Congo.
Located at the heart of Africa, the Democratic Republic of Congo is the continent’s second largest country. Congo is rich in natural resources: From the rubber that powered the bicycle industry and later the automobile revolution, to the uranium used for nuclear bombs in Hiroshima and Nagasaki, and now the cobalt used in electric car batteries, Congo has often been the center of attention for outsiders looking to manufacture on a large scale.
And yet, Congo’s wealth in natural resources has not translated to wealth for its citizens. With nearly 62 percent of its population living on less than $2.15 per day in 2022, Congo is one of the five poorest countries in the world.
If anything, Congo’s wealth in minerals has been the architect of much of its misfortune. Political instability, deadly conflicts that have claimed lives of more than five million individuals, and human rights abuses — all of which can be traced back to Congo’s wealth.
This has been the curse of the Congo, and it dates back almost a century and a half, decades before Congo became a sovereign nation.
The geographical area that is now the Democratic Republic of Congo was once the Congo Free State, the personal fiefdom of Belgium’s King Leopold II. Under the guise of protecting its people against the slave trade, King Leopold claimed Congo in 1885 as his own personal property. With a huge market for ivory in Europe, King Leopold saw an opportunity to make a fortune from Congo — even if it occasionally required extorting the locals to do his bidding.
Around the same time, in Edinburgh, Scotland, John Boyd Dunlop’s invention of the pneumatic wheel revolutionized motor transport in Europe — and changed the fate of the Congolese for the worse.
Congo was rich in rubber, and the subsequent boom in the demand for the material came as great news for King Leopold’s finances. With an army, the Force Publique, at his disposal, he could extract and profit from the rubber as much as he liked.
The locals, of course, bore the brunt of this venture.
Given the labor-intensive nature of extracting rubber, it became increasingly difficult for the Force Publique to supervise labor directly. Accordingly, officials resorted to quotas to make sure production would still meet global demand.
To enforce the quotas, the soldiers would kidnap the wives and kids of the local men and hold them hostage until the quotas were met. Failure to meet the quotas meant that their families would be left to starve — often to death — or have their hands chopped off. The Force Publique would raid villages, capturing produce and livestock, and until a village chief made coordinated efforts to produce a certain amount of rubber, the villagers would be left to starve to death.
Children were not spared. Often used as porters for European explorers, they were forced to carry heavy loads on their backs through treacherous paths, where several of them would die from exhaustion and starvation. Children would be subjected to brutal punishment for as little as laughing in the presence of a white man. Many of them were kidnapped, or had their parents killed, and taken to missionaries in child colonies where they were trained to become soldiers for the Force Publique.
Eventually, as African American missionaries were sent to Congo to scout for possible relocation for freed enslaved individuals, the horrors that had been neatly tucked in Congo were exposed to the rest of the world, and international pressure forced King Leopold II to hand over the colony to the Belgian government.
By this time, 8 to 10 million individuals had died in Congo — a number that, despite its shocking magnitude, is conspicuously left out in the traditional Eurocentric litany of the 20th century’s horrors.
King Leopold wiped out close to half the population of Congo in less than three decades.

King Leopold’s ghost still haunts Congo. Cobalt mining in Congo today is characterized by elements eerily similar to how rubber was extracted in the past — exploitation, destitution and death.
While most of Congo’s cobalt is extracted from large mines owned by foreign conglomerates, an estimated 20 percent is hand-mined by artisanal miners.
Working without any protective gear, artisanal miners dig deep underground tunnels to access the mineral ore and extract it by hand using basic tools. In the process, they are exposed to dust containing cobalt, which puts them at high risk for lung disease. Because the hand-dug tunnels are unsupported, many of them collapse, often claiming the lives of the miners.
For artisanal miners, safety is a luxury preserved for those who have means.
Close to 40,000 children, some of them as young as six years old, work at these artisanal mines. With unpromising prospects for their education, many of these children are forced to work in the mines to support themselves or their families. And their work isn’t light: From carrying heavy bags on their backs to digging out ores by hand, the children of the mines perform tasks almost indistinguishable from the ones carried out by their adult counterparts.
While artisanal mines account for most of the dangerous forms of extraction, the multinational conglomerates operating the mines can hardly absolve themselves of wrongdoing. In mining regions, the chain of events after mineral deposits are discovered is almost formulaic. Vast tracts of tree-covered land are cleared, toxic effluents start contaminating the water, the air becomes dense with dust from extraction, and soon enough, a manager from the mine announces that the venture has to relocate — leaving the local miners and polluted ecosystem behind.
Given all the destruction that cobalt mining causes, should we give up on electric vehicles?
Certainly not. The point of my article is not to decry the idea of electric vehicles as the sole and root cause of Congo’s misfortunes.
My point is that as agitators for clean energy alternatives, we are not doing enough.
At both the institutional and student level, Harvard is at the forefront of climate change action. From institutes that conduct solution-oriented research to activism by students that pushes for accountability and action, there is no scarcity of campus discourse on combating the climate crisis.
As we continue to innovate toward and advocate for clean energy alternatives, we must find solutions that go beyond just “cleaner” alternatives. We must find solutions that do not create other problems.
This does not mean we should wash our hands of Congo. Blanket assertions of corruption as being responsible for the situation in Congo deeply misconstrue the crux of the issue — Congo’s problems are also the world's problems.
The need for car tires, nuclear ammunition, cell phones and electric vehicles, and the willingness to have them at whatever costs, have driven Congo further and further into her current predicament. As such, we have a responsibility to Congo to do better.
I wish that our rush to stop the ticking time bomb that is climate change was not so inextricably linked to Congo — but that would be nothing more than a comforting lie. Cobalt mining in Congo reminds us that creating a sustainable future does not end with divesting from fossil fuels, or even ceasing their use. The conversation must go on, to ensure that our alternatives do not leave us in the same situation we are in with fossil fuels.
Ultimately, we must ask ourselves: Does saving the future of the planet have to mean Congo dies today?
Joshua Ochieng ’24, an Associate Editorial Editor, is an Economics concentrator in Quincy House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Every year, Harvard students compete for a handful of jobs in big tech — opportunities that are so competitive that their elite and inequitable selection processes recently earned a feature in the New York Times.
For our colleagues on the Editorial Board, this story is an indication of Harvard’s moral failing. Harvard should serve the public good and big tech is bad, ergo Harvard students shouldn’t apply to big tech jobs as much, their thinking goes.
This thinking is flawed on two counts: One, Harvard doesn’t exist solely to feed its students into public service jobs, and two, big tech isn’t evil in the first place.
The Board asserts that the College’s goal is — or should be — to educate people to go bring about social good. We disagree. The only criterion we should set for our fellow students as they go out into the world is to not do things that are evil.
The purpose of a Harvard education is to make students the best at what they do, whether that is engineering, law, academia, or any other pursuit. Harvard is designed to educate and create leaders across all fields, not only those whose existence is primarily aimed at advancing the social good. Accordingly, we should respect the diverse set of career paths that students ultimately choose to undertake.
We agree with the Board’s acknowledgement of the other avenues in life that can be leveraged to do good, but feel that these avenues are under-examined in the editorial — advancing an incomplete approach to morality and assessing good and harm.
Morality extends far beyond people’s career choices: Individuals can still be good people if they work in profit-driven sectors like big tech. For some, doing good in the world means working in a public service job; for others, it means being kind, donating to charity, and making ethical choices in whatever field they do choose. As long as our peers are not doing evil things, we see no reason to censure their post-graduation choices.
Which brings us to the Board’s second error: their characterization of big tech as a career path that warrants panic. Underlying this assertion is the assumption that big tech is monolithically evil with no capacity for good.
On the contrary, the benefits of big tech are quite significant. Big tech companies have democratized information, increasing its reach and accessibility. Because of firms like Google, Microsoft, and Meta, a new skill, friend’s recipe, manual, or historical fact is only one click away.
Companies such as Meta and Twitter have also provided platforms for noble causes from activism to charity fundraising. These companies are also at the forefront of cutting edge technology that has not only improved our quality of life, but has also enabled innovation and advancement in fields like healthcare, saving countless lives.
Of course, big tech has been a source of harm over the past several decades too. Whether it be the now-settled Facebook Cambridge Analytica case or Amazon’s violation of labor laws, we are well aware that the harms incurred by various big tech corporations can be particularly disastrous.
Yet, to flatten the possibilities within an entire sector of industry to a simple dichotomy of good against evil is reductive. By characterizing big tech as a morally questionable career choice not directed at the public good, the Editorial Board finds itself trapped in an unproductive binary. In choosing to desert a complicated discussion for the sake of finding an easy villain, our peers have forsaken a chance to develop a richer, more nuanced moral compass.
Our peers on the Editorial Board are thoughtful individuals that rigorously pursue the truth no matter the discourse at hand, but we find their stance on this issue misguided and intellectually lazy. As such, we have had no choice but to dissent.
Ruby J.J. Huang ’24, an Editorial Comp Director, is a History concentrator in Leverett House. Jacob M. Miller ’25, an Associate Editorial Editor, is a Mathematics concentrator in Lowell House. Joshua Ochieng ’24, an Associate Editorial Editor, is an Economics concentrator in Quincy House. Ivor K. Zimmerman ’23, a Crimson Editorial editor, is a Classics concentrator in Kirkland House.
Dissenting Opinions: Occasionally, The Crimson Editorial Board is divided about the opinion we express in a staff editorial. In these cases, dissenting board members have the opportunity to express their opposition to staff opinion.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Just like the dotcom bubble, the democratic portrayal of big tech has burst.
A recent feature in the New York Times showcased the elitism and inequity pervasive in the big tech recruiting process. Students with pre-existing connections, access to robust interview prep resources, and name brand elite school degrees — so, to an extent, the already wealthy — do well. Meanwhile, underprivileged students face a lengthy uphill climb for a limited number of spots.
To be sure, there are democratic aspects of the recruiting process worth celebrating. Online communities are treasure troves of information on methods of preparation and interview questions. Many big tech firms have created programs tailored to younger students from historically underrepresented backgrounds.
But as a whole, the big tech recruiting process requires sweeping structural reform.
At age 18 or 19, when many college students are first trying their hand at recruitment, there is no meaningful programming expertise to evaluate. At that age, coding skill is a direct function of one’s background. Did they grow up with well-to-do software engineer parents? Did they start out in an elementary school with a furnished computer lab? Those with early exposure to tech will appear as better candidates at this stage, but that appearance doesn’t get at the underlying talent that recruitment seeks.
Identifying talent is a nebulous and difficult task, which may be why big tech recruiters have an affinity towards elite college admits: They’ve already gone through an analogous talent-filtering mechanism.
But this recruitment strategy mistakes privilege for potential.
Harvard doesn’t have a monopoly on tech talent; Harvard doesn’t even have a monopoly on collegiate talent. Recruiting from elite schools like Harvard only perpetuates the blatant unfairness of college admissions, compounding injustices onto students from marginalized backgrounds who are already underrepresented in their college environments.
To break the cycle of inequality, big tech recruiting must divorce from notions of prestige. Reduce the weight placed on internal recommendations that favor the well-connected. Push back the recruiting timeline from early fall to give overwhelmed students — particularly low-income students also juggling jobs and school — more time to learn the interview game. Offer open-source resources for any interested student to learn more about the tech industry and its hyperspecific recruitment process.
College career offices should also learn the specialized recruitment process, so that they can recommend preparatory websites like LeetCode to prospective techies.
But the best way to democratize tech might not be in the hands of big tech recruiters at all.
The true spirit of technology is building, collaborating, and problem-solving. While big tech definitely pays in big checks, the world outside of big tech yields promising opportunities rife with these same ideals.
Of course, there are heaps of solid reasons to go into big tech — including stability and pay, which no student should ever feel morally bankrupt for valuing. Still, we remain concerned about technology-inclined Harvard students’ chase of big tech over the plethora of viable options.
Harvard’s techies often fall blindly into big tech without deeper inquiry. Harvard, in part, nudges them down that path: Career fair panels are stacked with big tech names. But students also drive themselves and their peers down these avenues, as the pursuit of prestige intersects with the desire to compete.
Opening our eyes to alternate paths requires a cultural shift towards social good. Harvard, as an institution, should exist to engender good. Big tech, in contrast, seems rarely to serve the public interest; in fact, for-profit tech companies often oppose the social good in profoundly unethical ways.
We’re deeply concerned about the harms of bias in developing technologies, from algorithmic racism to the existential risk posed by misaligned AI. Diversity in tech recruitment is necessary to cultivate the assorted perspectives that can first recognize issues of biased tech, and second conceive creative solutions to these issues.
We encourage our fellow tech-inclined students to go into areas aimed at reducing such harms. Even though one’s career is not the only way to do good, we hope that the value of public service touches, in at least some small part, all aspects of one’s life — including work.
With virtually every organization in need of and willing to stably compensate tech talent — except perhaps Elon Musk’s bird app — big tech is not the end-all, be-all of a Harvard Computer Science degree. However hard it may be for us Harvard students to broaden our sights, we can adjust our vision to focus on an equitable tech industry, doing good for the world.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
In “Good Will Hunting,” Matt Damon ’92 shares a late-night pickle with his love interest. Behind them, a red sign spelling out “Tasty” glows neon in the window.
Although it is unfamiliar to students now, the Tasty Diner, a 24/7 hole-in-the-wall sandwich shop, was once an all-hours gathering place for Cambridge residents and Harvard students.
“You know, we’re old, we were all around before social media. You needed spots where you could find each other. And if you were out late at night, the Tasty was a good option,” Chris W. Moore ’89 recalls.
Now, CVS stands in the Tasty’s place, and El Jefe’s Taqueria has overtaken the small diner as the de facto late-night Harvard haunt. Students today associate “Tasty” with Tasty Burger, the Boston burger chain located down the street. Yet alumni and Cambridge residents have found ways to preserve their memories of the Harvard Square watering hole.
In 1997, renovations conducted by the Cambridge Savings Bank forced the Tasty to close after 81 years in business. When he heard it was shutting down, Moore, a producer of “Good Will Hunting,” pushed for the Tasty to be immortalized as a backdrop in the movie.
“It literally was the worst place ever to shoot because it’s tiny,” Moore explains, describing the diner’s cramped 12-seat arrangement. The scene was shot during the daytime, when it was less hectic. “I’m glad it’s on film somewhere,” Moore says.
But “Good Will Hunting” was not the only film to portray the Tasty. Cambridge local Federico Muchnik preserved snapshots of the diner’s night-to-night life in his documentary “Touching History: Harvard Square, The Bank, and The Tasty Diner.”
Muchnik captured the space in unfiltered vitality in a documentary that Tasty-goers could hold on to even as the neighborhood morphed. In the weeks before the shop’s closing, Muchnik would order a couple of hot dogs, sit in the corner of the room, and begin to film. He trained his camera on the Tasty’s liveliness: the cooks jovially teasing customers, the never-ending conversation, the constant patter of clattering silverware.
Cambridge residents and Harvard students alike were loath to lose the gathering spot.
“I documented the taking apart of the Tasty, and that was a pretty emotional day for many people,” Muchnik says. Cambridge activists railed against the diner’s removal, protesting at City Hall, all of which Muchnik captures in his film. The Tasty, he says, was a “crossroads place because it was open and it was accessible and nobody judged you.”
Muchnik remembers the Tasty was a place of spontaneous togetherness, where unhoused people, Harvard students and professors, and working-class Cambridge locals convened on equal footing. A map of pins on the wall traced customers’ origins and travels. Hearing the stories of other customers’ travels, Muchnik says, felt like traveling with them. There was something transporting about the Tasty.

“If you were there, you were part of the Tasty community,” Nick P. D’Arienzo Jr. ’83 says. “You were in Harvard Square. You were in Cambridge. You weren’t really at Harvard anymore.” He “fell in love” with the establishment, he says. “I found I didn’t want to dress as preppy the more I went. It’s like we cared more about fitting in at the Tasty than about fitting in at Harvard.”
Harvard alumni who frequented the burger joint carry a sort of oral history of Tasty stories. Almost every person we interviewed sent us the names of more friends, promising fresh fables.
Many tell stories of Charles Coney, the diner’s central figure and cook, who worked at the Tasty for 23 years, moving to Harvard Dining Services after the shop closed. Coney died in 2009.
“When Charlie’s in there, you didn’t really mess around, you behaved. He was a small guy, he wasn’t big, but he had a very stern look to him because he was serious and he loved his job, he loved his work,” Muchnik says. “He had a lot of wisdom to his life.”
Coney was like glue, tethering the Tasty and its diverse array of customers together through a combination of strength, affability, and wit. “You got the feeling with Charlie that things were going to be okay.”
But Coney wasn’t the only cook at the Tasty. On the eve of their graduation, Roy S. Lackey ’88 and Sammy S. Hassan ’88 wandered into Tasty for one of their final Harvard Square meals. They found themselves on the other side of the counter, however, when that night’s cook suddenly passed out, apparently having drank too much that evening.
“We sat him at the corner barstool and he just basically put his head down and started sleeping,” says Lackey. “Sammy and I were like, ‘Well, I guess somebody’s got to run the Tasty.’” Lackey took over the register, taking requests at the counter, while Hassan became the short-order chef.
They “had a grand old time for quite a few hours,” says their college roommate, Billy P. Pennoyer ’88, until the server woke back up and they departed for the night — leaving behind their tips and taking two tea bags, one orange pekoe and one earl gray, as mementos. “We had many, many a burger at the Tasty but that legend — well, that just seemed a fitting way to walk away from the Tasty,” Pennoyer says.
Bobby Cleary ’89 recalls one early morning when someone carried muffins inside and Cleary began singing the Muffin Man song.
“It was a riot. The whole place started singing, and the muffin man was happy, and the guys behind the counter were happy.”
Many students would “chew and screw” — eat without paying, then run away. But after his freshman year, Cleary says he and his friends ate for free, a reward for kicking out a man harassing the workers behind the counter. “When we came back in, the place applauded us.”
Others were troubled by the rougher edges of the Tasty’s clientele.
“I thought it was kind of creepy or even maybe haunted. You’d see guys with fedoras, old guys with newspapers, and I would sort of walk by it and shudder and think it’s like something out of a Stephen King novel,” Peter C. Viles ’84 says. “It wasn’t a comfortable spot for me.” His only memory of venturing into the establishment was when his brother dared him to go after a late night of drinking.
Nowadays, alumni and Cambridge residents express mixed feelings on the Square’s gradual gentrification and the closure of community staples like the Tasty. “It’s easy to say it was better then. I don’t know it was better. It was just different,” Viles says.
“We always dread whatever vestige that was hanging on is no longer there,” D’Arienzo adds about his class reunion visits to Cambridge.
Muchnik feels similarly. “The banks have just done a lot of damage to the character of the Square,” he says. He sees the neighborhood, which he’s lived in since childhood, evolving even now.
“The students are the ones that make up the character of the Square,” Muchnik says. “Whatever they bring in dictates how funky or how straight-laced Harvard Square is going to be.”
— Magazine Writer Maeve T. Brennan can be reached at maeve.brennan@thecrimson.com.
— Magazine writer Maren E. Wong can be reached at maren.wong@thecrimson.com.
Sections
When Joseph W. Hernandez ’25 arrived back in Cambridge after winter break in January, he felt sick. He purchased a Covid-19 antigen test from a local pharmacy to be on the safe side and tested positive. Per Harvard College Covid-19 policies, he had to isolate for five days. However, Hernandez lives in a one-room double in Adams with a roommate and felt a responsibility to not infect him.
“I’m not giving him Covid. I don’t need that on my conscience,” he remembers thinking at the time.
Hernandez, a Crimson Editorial editor, had tested positive for Covid-19 on campus before, the first week of his freshman year. While quarantining at the Harvard Square Hotel was not an ideal start to his college experience, he “felt pretty well accommodated.”
A year and a half later, Hernandez was left to his own devices to determine how to isolate. Following current Harvard guidelines for students who test positive, Hernandez was expected to isolate on campus in his room. With no way to attend classes – in person or remotely – and nowhere else to isolate on campus, he chose to isolate off campus for the first week of the semester, experiencing a second abnormal start to a college semester due to Covid-19.
While President Joe Biden declared Covid-19 to no longer be a public health emergency on April 10, and the public health emergency will end at the Massachusetts state level on May 11, the coronavirus is still spreading. At Harvard, students are still getting Covid-19, but now without the campus supports that were instituted during earlier stages of the pandemic.
As the burden of managing Covid-19 shifts to individuals, many students have found that it has been harder to avoid getting sick or getting others sick, especially in a communal living environment.
This reduction has been framed as “streamlining”; Harvard University Health Services Executive Director Giang T. Nguyen announced the closure of Crimson Clear contact tracing and support in December, stating, “The University is streamlining the tools, resources, and strategies needed to ensure that the community can manage healthy behaviors and illnesses more independently.”
Mark E. Rifkin ’26 rephrases the message in his own words: “It’s still important to prevent Covid, but we are basically just getting rid of everything that would prevent Covid.”
Rifkin, who is immunocompromised, says some of the original policies and resources the University established a few years ago would have been helpful when he had the flu and Covid-19 this past fall.
“Publishing the results of testing, making quarantine policies clear, making isolation dining better, improving options for people who don’t want to dine in person or be in person for events – those are all things that you can do without impacting the return to normal for anyone. And Harvard’s basically abandoned them,” he says.
Harvard updates its Covid-19 policies in line with guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Massachusetts Department of Public Health, an HUHS spokesperson wrote in an emailed statement.
Students on campus must be fully vaccinated to an extent. The most recent booster was encouraged, but not required to attend classes, though students who did not receive the booster were given a course registration hold. Still, there are high stakes to the lack of infection prevention measures Harvard has set up. Studies have shown that getting Covid-19 repeatedly increases the risk of long Covid and that Covid-19 infections can cause long-term health issues. The vaccine decreases the percentage of transmission that occurs and the severity of symptoms when one is infected, but is not a panacea for preventing acute infection or long Covid. These policies also do not acknowledge the infectivity of asymptomatic spread; students who may be infected with Covid-19 but are asymptomatic do not need to test and isolate.
In 2023, there are still continued logistical challenges that Harvard affiliates face back on campus, but the minimization of these challenges — and of the pandemic itself — has created uncertainty, confusion, and continued disruption of many students’ experiences at Harvard.
Ghosts of Covid-19 safety measures past are scattered around campus — signs that demonstrate Harvard is capable of mobilizing a response when it deems that it is necessary to do so. Portable air filters sit unplugged in classrooms next to discarded cleaning supplies. Outdated posters directing viewers to the now defunct “Keep Harvard Healthy” initiative are still posted on House bathroom mirrors, encouraging viewers to wash their hands to prevent the spread of coronavirus – although research has long since shown that this is not the most effective way to prevent the spread of airborne illnesses like Covid-19. One of the lounges on the 10th floor of Smith Campus Center still has a sign designating it as a mask-only space for those who wish to remain masked, but this is not enforced or followed.
Seeing these references to discarded policies on display could perhaps create a sense of safety for those who are less informed about the virus. But to many, remains of past guidance are haunting rather than reassuring.
June R. Moretz ’25 felt relatively safe from the virus when they first arrived on campus for their freshman year. In fall 2021, students had access to PCR testing three times a week, isolation housing, designated isolation food pickup locations in all 12 undergraduate residential houses plus Annenberg, mask mandates in classrooms, and contact tracing and email notifications through Crimson Clear.
All that remains of Covid prevention measures today are rapid tests and surgical masks available for optional pickup at House offices, two isolation dining pickup locations, and a policy directing students who test positive to isolate and then wear a mask for five days.
Moretz began to wear an N95 mask in all public spaces as they witnessed the disintegration of prevention measures during the start of the spring 2022 semester, which conflicted with their understanding of the severity of Covid. They say a “massive spike” in positive Covid-19 cases motivated them to increase their mask usage.
During the January 2022 Omicron variant surge, wastewater viral loads and case counts spiked. On Jan. 12, 2022, when Harvard announced that infected students would isolate rather than quarantine in University-provided isolation housing — and cut the required isolation period for infected students in half — Middlesex County reported more than 4,800 cases per day.
“I was not about to go out and be unmasked around a population where 5 percent of people at any given time had Covid,” Moretz says. “That felt too risky.”
In the past, Harvard was a leader, rather than a follower, in setting standards for preventing the spread of Covid-19. In March 2020, Harvard created policies in real time, acknowledging that the University did not have the infrastructure to keep the campus safe at the time.
In a 2020 interview with the Harvard Gazette, the University’s then-Executive Vice President Katie N. Lapp said while Harvard drew on the advice of “international, federal, state, and local authorities such as the World Health Organization, the Centers for Disease Control [and Prevention], and the Massachusetts Department of Health,” the University’s “extensive, coordinated, and well-practiced planning infrastructure” was developed through University-wide planning in the absence of official governmental recommendations to do so.
Members of the University Coronavirus Advisory Group, a group composed of leading medical, public health, and policy Harvard affiliates with the goal to “minimize the impact of the virus on the campus and community,” rationalized the transition from required to voluntary testing in an interview in the Gazette in April 2022. UCAG member Michael Klompas, professor of population medicine at Harvard Medical School, cited the “large number of community members who have had and recovered from Covid infections” and that “vaccines plus natural immunity provide very potent protection against hospitalization and death” as key reasons for the policy shift.
The focus on the prevention of immediate death or severe symptoms has persisted despite the evidence that there are real long-term consequences to acute — not necessarily severe — Covid-19 infections. “We’re seeing long Covid most often in people who did not have severe Covid initially, and there may be clues that the robustness of the immune response and subsequent persistent immune activation could drive symptoms,” said Jason H. Maley, director of Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center’s Critical Illness and Covid-19 Survivorship Program, in a 2021 interview with the Harvard Gazette.
Harvard guidelines do acknowledge that Covid-19 can cause complications — but mainly for those considered to be at risk. The faculty guidelines state, “Remember that some members of our community, or their family members and other loved ones, are vulnerable to complications from Covid-19 and should continue to wear a mask.” But Covid-19 can cause complications for young, healthy people too.
Kai D. DeJesus ’23-’24, who wears a mask to protect herself from Covid-19 in public spaces, describes Harvard’s policies as “largely shaped by optics and liability, rather than any kind of compassion.” DeJesus worries about how many students are repeatedly being exposed to Covid and the possibility of them developing health conditions as a result. “How many of them will get Covid two, three, four times? How many will inevitably end up with long Covid?” she says.
By rolling back its Covid-19 restrictions, DeJesus argues, the University may have misled Harvard affiliates into believing that Covid infection is inevitable and that serious precautions no longer need to be taken. Moreover, those who continue to be concerned about the effects of Covid-19 are left with no other way to get their degree or keep their job without risking exposure to the virus amid minimal prevention measures.
Air ventilation and filtration are key to reducing the spread of Covid-19 in the air, but there is no public data about the air quality in each of Harvard’s buildings. How much ventilation there is or how often building air quality is tested is unclear. An HUHS spokesperson wrote in an emailed statement that Environmental Health and Safety provided guidance to building managers for operating HVAC systems and improving ventilation. Due to this measure, the spokesperson added, there is less need for portable air filters.
With no widespread, regular testing cadence in place — on campus and off — and no up-to-date Covid-19 dashboard, it is difficult for students to know how many people on campus have Covid, symptomatic or asymptomatic, which “makes things a lot more iffy than they were back when we had consistent mandatory testing,” Moretz says.
In September 2022, Harvard stopped offering PCR testing to affiliates and dismantled the Color testing apparatus they had set up on campus. Megan Coram ’23 appreciated the ease of being able to test with more certainty on campus. “I was disappointed when they took away the PCR testing just because I really liked having that as an option,” Coram says. “That was super useful.”
Harvard students now are able to optionally access rapid antigen tests through their house or yard offices to test. However, rapid tests are less sensitive than PCR tests and are more likely to give a false negative. Clarissa Briasco-Stewart ’23-’24 felt safer on campus when testing was in place last year, adding that she wishes “Harvard at least offered PCR testing as an option.”
The HUHS website directs those who want PCR tests to find local PCR testing locations via the Massachusetts “Find a Covid-19 Test” website, which no longer provides a searchable list of testing locations and redirects visitors to the CDC’s website. The CDC’s “No-Cost COVID-19 Testing” locator does not specify whether the listed locations provide PCR testing. The CVS in Harvard Square does not offer PCR tests.
A spokesperson for HUHS wrote in an emailed statement that Covid-19 testing and exposure guidance is available on the HUHS website, adding that students should request residential or academic accommodations from their school or unit.
Students who seek to avoid Covid-19 have often missed out on opportunities on campus because they have chosen to prioritize their health. Karina H. Halevy ’23 says that since the retraction of Covid-19 restrictions, life at Harvard has become much more anxiety-ridden. “It’s definitely had a negative impact on my emotional and mental health,” she says. “Not only the anxiety of having to think about the potential of getting sick at the same time that I’m trying to pay attention in class but also just not being able to go to most social events because they’re unmasked gatherings.”
Both Halevy and Moretz say they take meals to go, eat outside when possible, or eat in dining halls when they are less crowded to decrease their chances of a possible infection. “Because I’m less active in certain social situations that might be higher risk, it does make it harder to get to know people,” Moretz says.
Halevy echoes this concern. “My social life is definitely more limited coming back,” Halevy says. “I’m still close with most of the friends I met freshman year, but I haven’t been able to interact with them in person as much.”
“I feel like my relationships have not been as close as they would have been,” she adds.
In the absence of comprehensive testing or ventilation, some students are trying to reduce their risk of infection by masking in public.
DeJesus is one of the only students who still wears a mask in her classes.
“It makes me feel a little crazy,” she says. “Even though I know that I’m not. Even though I’ve done public health research, even though I’ve read the data, even though I understand why I do it, I sit there in a class called ‘Global Inequality.’ And no one except me is wearing a mask.”
DeJesus’ experience is not unique. Every student who still wears a mask in class that we talked to says they are the only one, or one of few.
Harvard Yard Operations in Weld Hall is the only residential location on campus where students can acquire KN95 masks. All upperclassmen house offices only provide surgical masks, which students who test positive or are exposed to Covid-19 are expected to wear. Surgical masks have been shown to be less effective at preventing the spread of Covid-19, as they do not prevent aerosols from leaking.
Moretz criticizes Harvard for supplying surgical masks rather than respirators to students, saying, “They should be at the very least supplying reputable KN95s” if the University won’t supply N95s.
Researchers have shown that it takes less time for someone wearing a surgical mask to become infected with Covid-19 than someone wearing an N95, even if the N95 is not fit tested.
The guidelines for faculty and researchers within the Faculty of Arts and Sciences state, “If a student or instructor feels the need to continue wearing a mask for their own protection, or the protection of someone close to them, they should do so. Wearing a high-quality mask that fits securely over the face without air gaps is an effective way to reduce personal risk.”
But many researchers and physicians argue that one-way masking, especially mostly with surgical masks, is not very effective at preventing the spread of Covid-19. Applying a “Swiss cheese model” of layering personal and shared methods of protection is considered to improve the success of preventing spread.  
Isolation becomes even more important in the absence of two-way masking mandates and high-quality masks. Rifkin describes how isolating for only five days allows for Covid-19 to spread more easily. “I isolated, obviously, until I tested negative for two days, which I think would be a more reasonable policy besides telling people to go back before they feel better and are negative,” he says.
But for many students, this isolation requires access to space that Harvard does not currently have available. Hernandez says he “definitely” would have gone to isolation housing to avoid infecting his roommate had it been an option that was made available to him. He believes there could be ways for sick students to be isolated in the absence of designated isolation housing on short notice. “There’s two or three dorms on my floor that are just empty. It looks like we have a little bit of space to spare,” he says.
Numerous students argue in favor of masking when sick as a general practice. “Please mask if you’re sick, even if it’s not Covid. That’s just a good idea,” Hernandez says.
Halevy, a head teaching fellow for Computer Science 51: “Abstraction and Design in Computation,” wears a mask when she teaches her section. She provides a box of masks in the room when she teaches to normalize the idea of wearing a mask.
“I basically introduced myself to my students over email and said that even though I can’t require masks in class, I still strongly encouraged them and informed them about the risk of long Covid. And then pretty much no one came to class with a mask,” she says. “But the SEC did have a giant stock of surgical masks, so I put a box at the door and every single person took one and put it on for my class. And that was really sweet.”
When students get sick, many students say they risk being penalized academically for isolating due to feeling ill or being symptomatic — with Covid-19 or any other illness. The current Dean of Student’s Office isolation guidelines state that “Students are responsible for ensuring that they keep up with their courses when they go into isolation for Covid.” However, there are no clear guidelines for the length of extensions, number of excused absences, and level of support that professors should give.
One student we talked to, who asked to remain anonymous, tested positive for Covid-19 in February. They emailed their professor to determine what to do to keep up with work when isolating. For one of their classes, missing class due to a University-mandated isolation policy is counted as an unexcused absence, and only two unexcused absences are allotted in the class without a grade penalty. They did not raise this with the professor because the unexcused absence would not harm their grade, so long as they did not get sick and miss class another time.
The Crimson granted anonymity to this student to discuss sensitive medical information.
There are also a vast number of policies across the different schools. On March 3, a post on the Canvas page of Chemistry 27: “Organic Chemistry of Life” encouraged students to “refer to the University Covid policies for guidance on the following cases: symptomatic Covid tests, asymptomatic Covid tests, symptomatic Covid close-contact exposure, and asymptomatic Covid close-contact exposure.” However, no such clearly defined case scenarios exist in either the FAS Faculty Health Guidelines or general HUHS Covid policies. The course staff for Chemistry 27 wrote in an emailed statement that the University follows CDC guidance on exposure to Covid-19.
For the first year of the pandemic, Harvard’s classes were almost entirely on Zoom. Now, the FAS Spring 2023 health guidance for faculty and researchers discourages the use of Zoom “as means to include an absent student in class sessions [as] many Harvard classrooms do not have the requisite installed AV equipment to support the equitable, effective inclusion of students in a class session or discussion.” Rather, Harvard Education Support Services suggests that the professor, or other students present in class, record and upload a recording for the absent students to watch later.
The anonymous student says their professor let them attend a class via Zoom when they were isolating but told them not to tell anyone because they were afraid of not following the FAS guidelines.
Professors are not allowed to mandate masks in their classes unless they receive special permission to do so due to a health condition. Faculty who may be in a high-risk group due to age or live with someone who is at risk do not have the same protections as faculty who are able to receive an accommodation through University Disability Resources.
Even students and TFs registered with disability services who are at risk for long-term complications from Covid-19 are not allotted the same protection as at-risk disabled faculty. They cannot receive an accommodation for others to mask around them in classes. A representative of the Disability Access Office wrote in an email that their office follows Harvard’s overarching mask guideline that face coverings are optional, adding that students should request additional accommodations related to a disability through the DAO, and faculty and staff should request accommodations through University Disability Resources.
Although most professors can’t request that students wear masks, they are still expected to monitor the mask usage of students who have been infected with Covid-19. The spring 2023 health guidance from FAS for faculty encourages professors to contact a student’s resident dean “if a student is not masking in a class within the five days following isolation for Covid, as currently required.” This level of enforcement requires a professor to keep track of who tested positive for Covid-19, when each student returned to class, and when a student’s isolation began — and is only possibly feasible if a student notified their professor that they specifically were infected with Covid-19 (rather than another illness) in the first place.
Some professors and departments make an effort to reject Harvard’s guidance that “masking is a personal decision” while still following the rules. Women, Gender, and Sexuality Director of Undergraduate Studies Caroline E. Light writes in an email that “WGS does not have any mandate for masking, nor do we obligate people to mask while in our offices or classrooms. We do, however, practice an ethic of care and of disability justice.”
In her own classes, Light chooses to mask in an effort to protect others from possible germs she may be carrying. She also asks that class participants “consider wearing masks in the interest of protecting themselves and each other from viruses, including Covid.” She says she roots this suggestion in “a justice-centered appeal to communal health and safety in which we are all implicated and from which everyone benefits.”
While there are many campus health preventative measures Harvard could revive, there is a financial cost to doing so.
Harvard spent about $83 million in the 2020-21 academic year on Covid-19 safety measures. The cost went down to $53 million for the 2021-22 school year. Harvard was reimbursed more than $22 million through FEMA grants and recouped other costs by cutting expenses elsewhere.
The grants Harvard received through FEMA were part of the Public Assistance program, an “essential source of funding for states and communities recovering from a federally declared disaster or emergency,” a FEMA press release states. Covid-19 is no longer a federal public health emergency, so FEMA grants are no longer a possible source of funding.
In an email welcoming students back to campus in fall 2021, Dean Khurana stated that Harvard affiliates would need to “ask questions about what aspects of pre-pandemic life we want to embrace — and what aspects of pre-pandemic life we may not want to recreate.”
Now in 2023, the pandemic is still not over, but most of Harvard’s original Covid-19 prevention measures are. The questions Dean Khurana asked still stand. What prevention strategies developed at the beginning of the pandemic should be embraced rather than discarded? How does Harvard ensure a campus that is safe and accessible for everyone?
“There’s a balance,” Rifkin says. “I think there’s a lot of stuff that Harvard can do that is not invasive.”
Moretz has a similar position: “There should be options for people who need options, rather than just simply mandating a policy of ‘Everyone must ignore the reality of Covid or take every protective step.’ It’s not all or nothing.”
Correction: April 25, 2023
A previous version of this article incorrectly stated that Harvard did not require the most recent Covid-19 booster for students. In fact, Harvard did not require the booster to attend classes, though students who did not receive it were given a course registration hold.
— Magazine writer Kendall Shields can be reached at kendall.shields@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @kendallishields.
—Staff writer Charlotte P. Ritz-Jack contributed reporting.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Roughly 55 percent of Americans under 30 years old reported feeling “nervous, anxious, or on edge” and 47 percent reported feeling “down, depressed or hopeless” at least several days in the last two weeks in a new survey of young adults released by the Harvard Institute of Politics Monday.
The findings were reported as part of the IOP’s biannual youth poll, conducted by the Harvard Public Opinion Project, polling 2,069 Americans aged 18 to 29 during a 10-day period in March. The results represent a slight decrease compared to figures from the fall youth poll, which found that 58 percent of those surveyed felt anxious and 49 percent felt depressed at least several days in the last two weeks.
“From fears of mass shootings to concerns of one day becoming homeless, the current state of Gen Z could perhaps best be summarized in one word: anxious,” HPOP Student Chair Ethan L. Jasny ’25 said in a press release.
The poll also found President Joe Biden’s approval rating among young Americans has fallen to 36 percent, marking a three percentage point decrease from last fall and a five percentage point decrease from last spring.
Following a shooting at a Nashville elementary school in March, the IOP released early results of the poll that showed 63 percent of surveyed young Americans support stricter gun laws. Survey results also found that 48 percent of young Americans have felt unsafe in the past month, and 40 percent worry about falling victim to gun violence.
“Young Americans have translated this fear into action, turning out to vote like their rights — and lives — depend on it. But we cannot take this engagement for granted. Public figures across the political divide must recognize the profound personal challenges members of my generation face every day,” Jasny said.
The poll also found that trust in the United States Supreme Court to “do the right thing” has dropped since 2018, from 43 percent to 33 percent. The decrease was most exaggerated among young women, with 40 percent responding that they trusted the Supreme Court in 2018 decreasing to 28 percent in 2023.
These results coincide with a shift over the last decade in young Americans preferring more progressive government interventions, according to the poll.
The proportion of those surveyed who believe basic health insurance is a right for all people saw an increase from 42 percent in 2013 to 65 percent in 2023, while the belief that governments should do more to curb climate change — even at the expense of economic growth — saw a sharp increase in support from 29 percent to 50 percent.
“The data collected in this poll clearly demonstrates not only the growing levels of political engagement among young people, but the urgency of addressing serious issues such as mental health, gun violence, housing, and more,” IOP Director Setti D. Warren said in the press release. “The results of previous Harvard Youth polls have had a direct influence on public policy, and I expect to see that trend continue.”
IOP Polling Director John Della Volpe said in the press release that he believes young Americans are “increasingly motivated to engage in politics” for both their own rights and for those of others.
“Every major political battle in America has Gen Z in the middle of it,” Della Volpe said. This generation has a fire and urgency unlike any I’ve seen in 20 years, and they expect their elected officials and candidates to show the same.”
—Staff writer Asher J. Montgomery can be reached at asher.montgomery@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @asherjmont.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Boston City Council held a hearing to review its payment in lieu of taxes program Friday, hearing testimony from residents and advocates on drawbacks and potential updates to the program that Boston has run since 2011.
The PILOT program requests for large, property tax-exempt nonprofits like universities and hospitals to voluntarily pay 25 percent of the property taxes they would have paid without the exemption.
Up to half of this payment may come in the form of non-cash “community benefits” like scholarships reserved for local students, job training programs, and educational services targeted to residents.
These nonprofits are requested to make the payment because roughly a quarter of the city’s budget is spent on city services like police, fire, and snow removal that benefit these institutions.
For 11 consecutive years, Harvard has paid less under the PILOT program than city officials requested for its land holdings in Allston and Longwood, valued at more than $1.5 billion.
In 2022, Boston requested $13.7 million, but Harvard contributed roughly $10.8 million. In each of the past five years, Harvard has contributed roughly 79 percent of the City’s requests.
Harvard spokesperson Amy Kamosa did not comment on why Harvard has consistently failed to meet the requested amount or how the University decides how much it will pay.
“As a nonprofit educational institution, Harvard engages with the City of Boston in a variety of important ways, including consistent participation in the City’s voluntary PILOT program and delivering community programs to Boston residents, paying municipal taxes on the University’s non-exempt property, as well as leading meaningful initiatives and outreach across every neighborhood in Boston,” she wrote in an emailed statement.
Harvard’s community contributions include the Arnold Arboretum, a public-private green space; fellowships for students to work on city projects at Boston City Hall, and Harvard Law School’s clinics and Pro Bono programs.
Adherence to the requests varies widely across private institutions: Boston Children’s Hospital, for example, paid its full requested PILOT contribution in 2022, while the New England Aquarium paid just half, all in community benefits.
Councilor Julia Mejia said residents should have more of a voice in determining what constitutes a community benefit under PILOT, instead of being told what benefits them by nonprofit institutions.
“How can we have a process that is being led by people who are dictating for us what it is that we need, and then bringing it to the community for a reaction?” she asked. “That’s just not how we should be doing business.”
“You can’t have a community benefit without community involvement,” said B. Chris Sumner, a community representative at the hearing.
Robert J. McCarron, CEO of the Association of Independent Colleges and Universities in Massachusetts, defended the benefits universities provide to Boston against criticism from councilors and advocates.
“Boston’s colleges and universities are integral contributors to the City and have been since their inception,” he said. “Today they continue to be vital in keeping neighborhoods alive and attracting visitors to the city.”
Another complaint about PILOT is around the program’s continued use of property valuations — which inform how much the city will request from an institution for its contributions — from 2009.
Commissioner of Assessing Nicholas Ariniello commented on the challenge of updating the property valuations during the hearing.
“It can be very hard to generate increased fundraising returns just by asking for more,” he said, pointing to what some see as a reason that Boston has not updated their valuations and increased payment requests.
Massachusetts has previously explored mandating PILOT payments from large nonprofits like Harvard, though a 2021 bill aimed at making such payments required did not make it to a vote before the state legislature.
Councilor Liz A. Breadon, whose district comprises Allston and Brighton, said that as universities buy more property for student housing in the city, the city loses more in tax revenue because the properties become tax-exempt under state law.
“The other issue that comes up is when a nonprofit institution such as a university, acquires a piece of commercial property like a former hotel or a former apartment block, and the community at large think, ‘Oh, there goes another piece of valuable property that’s going to go off the tax rolls that we’re going to have to subsidize,’” she said.
City Councilor-At-Large Ruthzee Louijeune, a graduate of the Law School and Kennedy School, said she believes “times have changed” on how the city is “trying to hold nonprofit institutions accountable.”
Enid Eckstein — a co-chair of the PILOT Action Group, an organization that advocates for PILOT compliance — said during the hearing that the program should consider what Harvard owes to the city of Boston.
“What is the social and moral obligation of a world-class institution to the community that it has displaced?” Eckstein asked.
—Staff writer Samuel P. Goldston can be reached at samuel.goldston@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Jack R. Trapanick can be reached at jack.trapanick@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @jackrtrapanick.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As convicted ex-Harvard professor Charles M. Lieber awaits his sentencing hearing on Wednesday for lying to federal investigators about his ties to China, his attorneys asked a federal judge last week to spare him from prison, while prosecutors requested a 90-day sentence.
Lieber was arrested on Harvard’s campus in January 2020 and charged with lying to government authorities about his involvement with the Wuhan University of Technology and the Thousand Talents Program — a Chinese government program to attract foreign research talent to China. A federal jury found Lieber guilty of all felony charges following a six-day trial.
Lieber previously served as a University Professor, Harvard’s highest faculty rank, before quietly retiring from the role on Feb. 1. He also served as a former chair of the Chemistry and Chemical Biology department, before he was replaced by professors Theodore A. Betley and Daniel Kahne shortly after his arrest.
In a court filing Friday, Lieber’s attorneys cited his late-stage lymphoma diagnosis in their request for a non-custodial sentence.
“For the last three years, and as described in detail below, Professor Lieber has been largely confined to his home and hospitals, fighting for his life on multiple fronts,” his attorneys wrote. “Professor Lieber hopes the Court will assess the complete picture of who he is and how he has lived his life and will have mercy on him.”
In their court filing, Lieber’s attorneys also included a January 2023 letter from his doctor, Harvard Medical School instructor Austin I. Kim. The letter stated that Lieber achieved a “complete remission” after receiving cancer treatment last fall, although his illness is “still considered to be an incurable lymphoma.”
“As long as his lymphoma remains in remission, he will not require any additional treatment for his follicular lymphoma,” Kim wrote in the letter. “However, median duration of remission following CAR T-cell therapy for relapsed follicular lymphoma is currently around 3 years.”
In a filing on Sunday, government prosecutors asked the court to sentence Lieber to 90 days in prison followed by a year of supervised release, in addition to payments totaling more than $180,000.
The prosecutors wrote that though Lieber’s involvement in the Chinese talent acquisition program was not illegal, his “chronic lies” to government investigators warranted a “weighty punishment.”
“Lieber purposely — and repeatedly — lied to government agents about his ties to WUT and TTP in response to direct, unambiguous questions; and he purposely concealed from tax authorities the hundreds of thousands of dollars paid to him by WUT,” they wrote, adding that his crimes constituted a “prolonged and purposeful pattern of deceit and a profound lack of respect for the law.”
In the memo, prosecutors wrote Lieber’s health informed their recommendation for a “below-Guideline” sentence, but said it “does not preclude him from serving a period of incarceration.”
They added that Lieber’s actions were part of a “deliberate, sustained effort to lie and deceive” for personal gain.
“They were not the product of a single misguided act or one rash decision, but rather a concerted and sustained effort over a period of years to downplay his relationship with WUT, cover up completely his affiliation with the Thousand Talents Program, and secretly line his own pockets,” prosecutors wrote.
Lieber’s lawyers, however, argued in their Friday court filing that the negative impact on Lieber’s career served as punishment enough, and that the conviction was already successful in deterring similar offenses.
“His reputation is in tatters,” the attorneys wrote. “Put simply, the facts and circumstances that led to this case will never happen again. Courts around the country have recognized these kinds of consequences as punishment.”
They added that Lieber is “filled with remorse and shame for the actions that led to this case.”
“His conduct was completely opposed to the integrity with which he has conducted himself as a researcher and scientist throughout his long career,” they wrote.
Attorneys for Lieber also cast doubt on the China Initiative, a now-defunct campaign by the Department of Justice launched by the Trump administration to counter academic espionage with a focus on China. Lieber’s conviction marked a key victory for the short-lived program, which came to an end just over two months after his trial.
“Due to the public attention drawn by the DOJ’s China Initiative, Professor Lieber received and continues to receive countless threats, some of which have been reported to the U.S. Attorney’s Office and other law enforcement agencies,” the attorneys wrote. “These threats and the public condemnation will punish Professor Lieber for the rest of his life.”
His attorneys also included more than 100 letters from friends, family, colleagues, and former students testifying to Lieber’s character, including at least 24 current and three former Harvard faculty members. The letter writers include CCB Director of Undergraduate Studies Gregory C. “Gregg” Tucci; Kahne, one of the professors who succeeded Lieber as CCB chair; and three Nobel laureates — Harvard Medical School professor Jack W. Szostak and chemistry professors emeriti Elias James “E.J.” Corey and Dudley R. Herschbach.
In his letter, Szostak wrote that Lieber was motivated by “a sense of duty to his colleagues” and aimed to “further collaborations and the spirit of free exchange of knowledge.”
“I believe that he had the same attitude at an international level, where he was very active in supporting his friends, colleagues and former students worldwide and notably in China,” Szostak wrote. “I do not believe that he was ever motivated by personal gain, but on the contrary went to great lengths to help anyone who shared his excitement about the exploration of new directions in fundamental scientific research.”
—Staff writer Miles J. Herszenhorn can be reached at miles.herszenhorn@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @MHerszenhorn.
—Staff writer Elias J. Schisgall can be reached at elias.schisgall@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @eschisgall.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
More than a dozen campus groups came together last week to hold Harvard’s first-ever “Intersectional Earth Week,” which featured a series of events focusing on the relationships between climate change and identity.
Intersectional Earth Week — which was co-sponsored by the Harvard Climate Coalition and the Harvard Undergraduate Association — ran from April 17 to April 22 and featured panels, art installations, and workshops. Participating organizations included the Harvard Kennedy School Program on Science, Technology, and Society, Act on a Dream, and Harvard Undergraduates for Environmental Justice.
According to Lizbeth D. Ibarra ’26, a co-organizer of the week and member of HCC, the idea of organizing an Intersectional Earth Week arose from the Coalition’s previous work uplifting “the communities that are on the frontlines of the climate crisis and the voices that are often left out.”
“We know that there’s specific communities — low-income communities, communities of color, marginalized communities — that have faced the consequences of the climate crisis for a really long time,” she said. “But on campus, those voices aren’t necessarily represented.”
One of the events — a collaboration between affinity groups Latinas Unidas, Fuerza Latina, the Black Students Association, and the Harvard-Radcliffe Asian American Association — sought to amplify underrepresented voices in a panel on pursuing environmental justice for marginalized groups in Boston.
During the panel, local environmental justice organizers Latifa Ziyad, Norieliz DeJesus, and Nicholas Oviedo-Torres spoke about their personal experiences organizing and seeking justice for Boston residents at the forefront of the climate crisis.
Shania D. Hurtado ’25, a member of Latinas Unidas and an organizer of the event, described the talk as “equally angering and equally empowering.”
Conversations around climate change, Hurtado said, “tend to neglect the barriers that marginalized communities face when it comes to housing rights, when it comes to access to food, access to water, access to basic resources.”
“This event really aims to bring that to the forefront of the movement and start these conversations on campus on environmental justice,” said Hurtado, a Crimson Editorial editor.
During the week, the Harvard Undergraduate Urban Sustainability Lab installed a mural called “Power Connected” in the Science Center.
In the mural, two individuals are depicted holding hands across power lines with a bright sky in the background. According to the piece’s description, the artwork “depicts the interconnectivity of our modern world” and “emphasizes the human need to proactively support transmission to prevent stranded power generation and ensure a sustainable energy future for all.”
Grace Cen ’23, the organizer of the installation and a co-president of the Urban Sustainability Lab, said she wanted to use art as a medium for her message because of its “history of resilience and community engagement.”
“The clean energy grid is beautiful. It’s intricate and dynamic. And we wanted to deliberately make sure people felt connected to this message and felt like this message was very human instead of something that is often very invisible,” she said. “A lot of infrastructure typically is invisible to us.”
HCC Co-Founder Michael R. Waxman ’25, another organizer of the week, said he hopes attendees learned more about aspects of climate change that are often overlooked.
“I’m hoping that people can really have a shifted perspective in how they understand the climate crisis through this week, and even have a deeper understanding of how the climate crisis is so embedded into them as a person or into their community,” he said.
Waxman said he also hopes Intersectional Earth Week can “build bridges” on campus.
“I’m hoping that Intersectional Earth Week is the launching pad for so many more collaborations that the Climate Coalition can help facilitate between climate groups, non-climate groups, affinity groups, all kinds of groups, and just keep building this incredible community of people who really want to make change together,” he said.
—Staff writer Sabrina R. Hu can be reached at sabrina.hu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @sxbrinahhu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
After spending a day with prefrosh, their parents, and sometimes even their dogs, flyby blog has compiled a list of the most hilarious and shocking overheards from this Visitas weekend. Be prepared to be entertained by the Class of 2027.
-
“Stanford is acceptable, but it’s not… you know… an Ivy League school” - Anti-Stanford Kid
-
“My family’s trying to complete the Ivy League attendance”
“How many Ivy Leagues do you have left?”
“Just Cornell because why would you go there…” - The Highest Form Of Legacy Families
-
“MIT is so much more Harvard than Harvard is… these people are so normal” - Disappointed Prefrosh
-
“I heard collaboration is forbidden… even for homework” - Confused Prefrosh
“Have you heard of the MQC? My host said that they lived there to pass their classes — Do you know the address?” - Confused Prefrosh 2
“Do you mean the MAC?” - Confused Prefrosh 3
-
“Can I accompany my child so that they’re not alone?” - Overattached Parent
“We think it would be best that they make friends while they’re here” - Anon Visitas Staff
“Hahaha… I like to say that I’m her best friend!” - Parent
-
“Why do they look so sad?” - Unaware Prefrosh
-
“I’m still waiting to hear back from my talent agent” - Prefrosh with a Talent Agent
-
“My child cannot cook or do laundry” - Concerned Parent
-
“Can you hold my trash while I take a picture with President Dean Gay”
*throws trash at staff* - Concerning Parent
-
“I can’t wait to take the train to Yale tomorrow for their Visitas, their programming looks really cool” - Prefrosh in the HUCE elevator
-
“This is my prefrosh” - Senior with No Prefrosh
“They’re wearing a Class of 2023 shirt” - Senior at Harvard College
“Can we still get free food though?” - The Senior, Also Known as “Prefrosh”
-
“You know I think you could literally just teach that class” - Prefrosh 1
“I think that’s what going to happen” - Prefrosh 2
-
And that’s a wrap on this year’s Visitas. To all you prefrosh — we hope you enjoyed the rainy weekend and everyone at flyby wishes you good luck making what will surely be an easy difficult college decision!
Sections
Eleganza returned to a sold-out crowd at the Bright-Landry Hockey Center on Saturday for its “Rebirth” show. The annual fashion and dance performance was started in 1994 by Harvard’s Black C.A.S.T. with an aim to “redefine beauty and aesthetic style on campus.” Almost 30 years later, more than 40 board members and 50 dancers continue the tradition.
