News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard Alumni Association nominating committee announced candidates for the Board of Overseers — the University’s second-highest governing body — and for elected directors of the HAA Friday.
The nominating committee, composed of alumni volunteers, selected eight candidates for five expected vacancies on the Board of Overseers and nine candidates for six vacancies for the HAA elected directors.
The committee proposed eight Harvard alums for the 2023 Board of Overseers election: American University President Sylvia M. Burwell ’87; Boston Symphony Orchestra CEO Jeffrey D. Dunn ’77; biotechnology firm The EVERY Company founder Arturo Elizondo ’14; pharmaceutical company board director Srishti Gupta Narasimhan ’97; Brookings Institution Senior Fellow Fiona Hill; former HAA President Vanessa W. Liu ’96; University of Texas professor Robert L. Satcher Jr.; and chair of the Statue of Liberty-Ellis Island Foundation Luis A. Ubiñas ’85.
The Board of Overseers was established in 1642. Its work includes directing the “periodic external assessment” of Harvard’s various schools and departments and advising University administration on initiatives, according to Harvard’s press release announcing the nominees. The committee selected candidates after consideration of previous board experience, professional achievements, and interest in Harvard’s educational mission.
Nine Harvard alums will appear on the ballot for the 2023 HAA Elected Director vacancies:
Illinois Human Rights Commission vice chair and commissioner Barbara R. Barreno-Paschall ’07; Comcast Vice President and counsel Rudy N. Brioché; former executive director of women’s health platform Our Bodies Ourselves Judith L. Norsigian ’70; Merck executive director Yvonne O. Osirim ’01; Twitter associate Theodora Skeadas ’12; Western Union board director Angela A. Sun ’96; venture capital firm India Internet Fund founding partner Anirudh Suri; psychologist Miya Omori Yamada; and software firm Totally Human managing partner Jason W. Young ’04.
The HAA elected directors strive to bolster alumni engagement around the world. Prior initiatives have included outreach to recent graduates and building inclusive alumni networks.
HAA leadership appointed a 13-member nominating committee, with three current or former Overseers. During several deliberations in the fall, the committee evaluated hundreds of prospective candidates put forth by Harvard alumni and affiliates.
Excluding Harvard faculty, administrators, and members of the Harvard Corporation — the University’s highest governing body — all Harvard degree holders as of Jan. 1 are eligible to vote for Overseers. All degree holders as of Jan. 1 may vote for HAA elected directors. Elections will begin March 31 and end on May 16.
—Staff writer Andrew M. Lu can be reached at andrew.lu1@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Marina Qu can be reached at marina.qu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @MingyiQu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
