News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
I graduated cum laude from Harvard College in 2022, and right now, I’m working as a paralegal in Manhattan, getting ready to apply to law schools this fall. But there’s a catch.
I’m “stateless,” which means no country will offer me citizenship. Right now, there’s a bill in Congress — the Stateless Protection Act — that could fix my legal situation and offer people like me a path to adjust our status. But until then, I’m ineligible for federal student loans, and there’s a real chance I won’t be able to afford to become a lawyer.
I’m a patriot. Yet my situation strikes me as decidedly un-American. I know America can do better to uphold our stated values. Currently, it’s failing stateless people like me.
Statelessness is a crucial human rights issue. At Harvard, I read lots of constitutional law, and my lack of citizenship seems exactly the kind of cruel and unusual punishment forbidden by the Eighth Amendment. It also contravenes Article 15 of the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which declares the right to a nationality.
Former Supreme Court Chief Justice Earl Warren once referred to denationalization as “the total destruction of the individual’s status in organized society” and “a form of punishment more primitive than torture.” Why? Because it crushes an individual’s “political existence that was centuries in the development.”
Warren was right; statelessness has indeed destroyed many people’s lives. It can make us feel unable to control our own futures and instead bound to a system we cannot change. It takes our voice away from politics. It affects our autonomy and sense of belonging. It separates families, tears individuals from their childhood homes, and forbids them from growing roots in this country.
About 200,000 Americans are affected by statelessness, all with our own stories and histories. In my case, it means I can’t leave the country because I don’t have a passport. I was born in Greece, but the country does not have birthright citizenship. My family ended up moving to the United States, settling in Waterbury, Conn.
As a high schooler, I drew inspiration from American democracy, always knocking on my neighbors’ doors around election time. Even though I couldn’t vote for the candidates myself, I’ve always loved public service. But there aren’t many people with my background in elected office in America.
In Alaska, Senators Lisa A. Murkowski (R-Alaska) and Dan S. Sullivan ’87 (R-Alaska) recently secured the passage of a private bill to naturalize one stateless woman, Rebecca Trimble. I applaud their efforts. But it’s an inefficient use of government resources to pass federal legislation one person at a time, when we could implement a universal solution quickly. All we’d have to do is act.
Two members of Congress, Senator Ben L. Cardin (D-Md.) and Representative Jamie B. Raskin ’83 (D-Md.), have introduced a promising bill in Congress. The Stateless Protection Act of 2022 would create a new protected status and pathway to citizenship for people like me.
Meanwhile, the Biden administration has also made some promises. In December of 2021, the Department of Homeland Security announced it would “adopt a definition of statelessness for immigration purposes and enhance protections for stateless individuals living in the United States.” Four months later, Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro N. Mayorkas reiterated this promise during a television interview, claiming that the department would realize its commitment by the end of the fiscal year.
Sadly, that fiscal year has since concluded with the administration’s promise having yet to materialize. Stateless people continue to live in utter legal confusion.
Statelessness is impossible to fully grasp if you don’t know somebody, in person, experiencing statelessness. This makes it crucial for stateless people to raise awareness of our status. I joined a new organization called United Stateless, led by people similarly in my legal situation. We’re speaking out to call attention and convince people that this issue is urgent.
It takes courage for us to speak up. When I was growing up, my family discouraged me from talking about my statelessness. I worried about how my peers might perceive me. Then, when I finally broke the ice in high school, it became something I wanted to talk about more often.
Statelessness has gone on in the quiet for too long, and its stigma has led to the exploitation of countless stateless people. But when I tell my story, people in similar circumstances often approach me and tell me how encouraged they were by hearing it. The more we connect with each other, the more we realize there is power in talking.
And I don’t just talk about my own story. I try to tell people about the challenges faced by other stateless people here in America. One of my colleagues at United Stateless, Ekaterina, has been trying to get her very ill mother into the country for years. My friend Henry is a Holocaust survivor in his eighties who has spent his life anxious because of his statelessness. Customs agents took my friend Danah to a detention facility and strip-searched her at age 15. My friend Kevin married a stateless woman and, a decade later, she remains unable to obtain citizenship. Statelessness tries as hard as it can to keep us from living productive lives.
Please raise the issue of statelessness with a colleague or friend. The more of us know and understand the issue, the quicker we can resolve things for everyone. It’s past time to help people in my situation out.
Daiana Lilo ’22 is a graduate of Cabot House and a member of United Stateless. 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
School is almost over now
And folks are getting stressed
Staying up till 4am
To cram for all their tests.

I, myself, am not immune
From all this finals sorrow.
I’ve got twenty pages worth
Of writing due tomorrow!

Once we get through May, though,
We can finally take a breath
And do whatever people do
When they’re not worked to death.

Still, before we finish up
And bid the year adieu,
I’ve got one last humble little
Rhyming thought for you.

We’ve talked about diversity
And legacy admissions,
‘Bout toxic masculinity,
And fake poor dispositions.

And sure, there’s still a lot of
Heavy topics to discuss,
And doing it in rhyme, of course,
Is always quite the plus.

But honestly, there’s something else
I think about a lot —
A widespread, sad phenomena
That isn’t hard to spot.

So, for my final article,
I wrote you all a letter.
Inside it, there’s an offering
That I think makes life better.  

Dear people who have read this far:
First of all, you rule!
I have a small request for you
Once you get out of school.

We’re all so crazy busy
And we’re always on the run.
Very few of us have time
To sit and read for fun.

But sometime in the coming months
Seek out a quiet nook.
Put aside your iPhone
And instead, pick up a book.

Not something that you have to read,
Not something that’s assigned.
Pick something that is silly
And will entertain your mind.

Do you still like Percy Jackson?
If so, that’s a relief!
Instead of watching Love is Blind,
Re-read “The Lightning Thief.”

Or if you are a romance fan,
Try “Fifty Shades of Grey.”
And if you like a wedding,
“As You Like It” is your play.

Into creepy horror?
Edgar Allan Poe’s your guy.
He writes ‘bout death and murder
And a lot of people die!

But maybe you’re one of those folks
Who, when they get to choose,
Will always turn on CNN
Or other nightly news.

If so, you should read Immerwahr!
His newest book is great.
Or else try out a memoir:
Mindy Kaling’s are first rate.

But maybe you’re like,
“Ughhh! I already think in school.
I’m gonna just recharge my brain
With Netflix, if that’s cool.”

Yo man, yeah, I get it.
After finals, my brain’s shot.
So here’s some brainless,
“Just for fun” book recs that I have got.

“Redshirts” by John Scalzi,
“Fun Home” by Bechdel,
“Born a Crime” or “Dracula,”
Or Olen Butler’s “Hell”

Graphic novels also rule!
Try out “The Hard Tomorrow”
“New Kid,” “Maus,” “Persepolis”:
All great ones you should borrow.

Mostly, guys, my point here
Is that life is really tough.
Everything takes so much time
And there’s never enough.

So once you finally get a break
Sit down and try to read.
Books can offer the respite
From work that we all need.

They often increase vocab
And help workout our brain.
Attention spans can increase.
We all have so much to gain!

So yeah, I’ll leave it there for now.
This column has been fun!
Here’s what you should take away
Before I’m truly done.

Rhymes are often thought to be
What only kids enjoy,
But sometimes simple, silly stuff
Can bring the greatest joy!

They’re beautiful. They’re artful.
They add a touch of glee!
And man, the news is glum enough —
Now, wouldn’t you agree?
Rhymes can help us understand.
They’re music to our ears.
And making words accessible
Is something I hold dear.
And so it is my hope for us
That maybe over time,
We’ll learn to find the joy in life.
We’ll learn to find the rhyme.
Mireya Sánchez-Maes ’24 is a joint concentrator in English and Theater, Dance, and Media in Currier House. Her column “Rhyme and Reason” appears on alternate Mondays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
In 1873, The Crimson published its first newspaper. One hundred and fifty years later, as alumni flock back in town for this weekend’s 150th Anniversary Celebration, we’ve asked members of the Editorial Board to reflect on the bits of magic that have brought — and continue to bring — 14 Plympton St. to life.
I often think about the first staff editorial published in The Magenta — the publication that later became The Crimson — because it reminds me of how far we’ve come. The Crimson today is an incredibly different place than when it was first founded; it is now a space teeming with so much diversity and life. This ancient and all-knowing building is home to an entire world — one where I’ve met my closest friends, where so many students come together to produce a daily paper. This institution is built on generations of commitment and vigor.
—Shanivi Srikonda ’24, a Crimson Editorial Editor, is a Human Developmental and Regenerative Biology concentrator in Quincy House
“A Welcome Addition”: In 1960, we applauded the introduction of the Social Studies concentration at the college. Today, most staff editorial meetings could double as a Social Studies tutorial with the number of concentrators on the board. It’s comforting to see our intertwined history with that concentration, especially as the precedent seems to hold up — except perhaps our suggestion that Social Studies “should remain a small field.”
—Saul I.M. Arnow ’26, a Crimson Editorial Editor, lives in Holworthy Hall
“After King,” a piece published four days after Martin Luther King Jr.’s 1968 assassination, holds great importance to me.
“King was always a militant,” the author points out; as such, it was hypocritical for officials to ask for nonviolence after riots broke out in urban areas. The author also correctly identifies the disconnect between the people’s calls for equality and the “empty response” from the government. The piece demands substantial, effective legislation, as well as a complete restructuring of our racial system, to bring about meaningful change. It is disheartening that King’s vision is still unmet in present-day America.
—Clyve Lawrence ’25, a Crimson Editorial editor, is a Government concentrator in Adams House
When Antony J. Blinken ’84 was nominated as Secretary of State, I curiously read through all his opinion pieces in The Crimson, amused that the United States’ top diplomat’s undergraduate thoughts were captured and preserved for my perusal. It also reminded me of the frightening reality that anything we write today will be available in perpetuity for the judgment of future readers.
—Jacob M. Miller ’25, an Associate Editorial Editor, is a Mathematics concentrator in Lowell House
I first came across Noah D. Oppenheim ’00’s “Keep the Old Sheet Flying” while frantically researching The Crimson’s history ahead of General Elections, when we elect new members to the newspaper. For a piece that marks the end of something, it’s rather hopeful. Four years of student journalism taught Oppenheim the thrill of chasing a lead and the necessity of stepping back. Somewhere in between, he found equal value in the two, and a home at the Editorial Board. My own Grand Elections have since passed, but I keep returning to Oppenheim’s words for their poignancy. I have a good feeling that sometime soon, I’ll start to live them.
—Violet T. M. Barron ’26, a Crimson Editorial Editor, lives in Straus Hall
In 2007, The Crimson released its most clever precedent (as far as I’m aware), “God Bless America.” It illustrates the rhetorical power humor can have and reminds us not to take ourselves too seriously all the time. It also reminds me — because I keep forgetting — that “Harvard is overrun with communists, hippies, sexual deviants, and Jeffersonian liberals.”
—Lucas T. Gazianis ’24, an Associate Editorial Editor, is a Social Studies concentrator in Currier House
“Let Them Eat Code” remains the most based staff editorial this board has ever published. We’re never overturning you, baby.
(Some argue that we may have overturned without explicitly stating it in the follow-up “Let Them Eat Camus.” To that, I respond, “We Can Have Our Code and Eat Camus, Too” — and also, we aren’t The Crimson’s Editorial Board without a yearly shifting of guards that leaves us in a well-meaning but utterly lost tizzy of precedents.)
—Christina M. Xiao ’24, a Crimson Editorial Chair, is a joint concentrator in Computer Science and Government in Eliot House
I read the Editorial Board’s 2020 Commencement staff-ed almost two years after its publication, and I was struck by its enduring power. The piece viscerally encapsulates, through a series of poignant vignettes, the event that so abruptly yet totally took over my, and all of our, transitions into adulthood — the Covid-19 pandemic. It’s a perfect utilization of the editorial snippets style, and a powerful reminder of journalism’s ability to connect us in the most isolating of moments.
—Ian D. Svetkey ’25, an Associate Editorial Editor, is an Integrative Biology concentrator in Eliot House
“Are We In The Minority?” puts into words the feelings and thoughts that I have long been unable to articulate. In my short time as a student here, it felt like I was having an identity crisis with what to call myself, and I struggled to relate to a lot of my Black peers. This piece not only helps me understand who I am but also provides perspective as to how to navigate Harvard as a Generational African American.
—Zion J. Dixon ’26, a Crimson Editorial Editor, lives in Wigglesworth Hall
“Five Generations of Renty” in many ways is a generational piece — both literally and metaphorically. Two years after its publication, the Lanier family is still awaiting justice for their ancestors.
As I approach my graduation year, I reflect on the cultural property that was stolen from the Lanier family and the memory of Renty and Delia. I reflect on the generational legacy that I will leave behind. I hope that when I throw my graduation cap to the clouds in May 2024, Harvard will have let go of their anti-Black desire to win Lanier v. Harvard — setting the stage for real change.
—Ebony M. Smith ’24, a Crimson Editorial editor, is a joint concentrator in Government and African & African American Studies in Eliot House 
Saturday, Oct. 1, 2022. After days of procrastination, I had to submit an opinion piece before the midnight deadline. With little inspiration, I chose to write about what seemed the most accessible topic to me: my country, and by extension, continent. Seven months later, as I walk to Social Studies 98VC: “Colonialism and Postcolonialism,” as I toy with the idea of pursuing a masters in African Studies, I am reminded where it all started: The Harvard Crimson.
—Joshua Ochieng ’24, an Associate Editorial Editor, is an Economics concentrator in Quincy House
Having line-edited and fact-checked more than 250 individual Opinion pieces to date, I’ve become well-acquainted with the predictable physics of the process: Apply enough force to a piece (with suggestion-mode comments, handcrafted fact checks, and boxed wine consumption proportional to its mass) and a once-inert Google Doc will move through the pipeline to a place of publication.
But even as proofing has come to feel Newtonian in nature, I still find myself surprised by what comes after. For every painstakingly prepared piece, there is an equal and opposite reaction: the provision of a Ramadan prayer break, the inauguration of an APIDA affinity graduation, the offering of a long-suppressed language. The Third Law of Editorial Publication, and the op-eds that help to illustrate its presence, keep me in perpetual awe of even the most mundane physics of this paper.
—Eleanor V. Wikstrom ’24, a Crimson Editorial Chair, is a Social Studies concentrator in Adams House
To Gay W. Seidman ’78, Imtiyaz H. Delawala ’03, Peter F. Zhu ’11, Steven S. Lee ’16, and Kristine E. Guillaume ’20: There is a special pride in being the 150th President of The Harvard Crimson and knowing that I — a woman with Korean heritage — am not the first. Not the first woman, not the first person of color on record, not the first Korean, not the first woman of East Asian descent to lead 14 Plympton St. Thank you for all the late nights and early mornings you poured into this newspaper to make historic firsts. May The Crimson have many more.
—Cara J. Chang ’24, the President of The Crimson’s 150th Guard, is a History concentrator in Leverett House
On a brisk night in fall of 2021, I found myself once again in the Sanctum of 14 Plympton St. Only this time, we were saying goodbye to HMK and CAS. Somewhere between the cake slices with lit candles and everyone else’s chatter in the background, I felt at peace again. It’s strange — my favorite memory being my very first goodbyes, but I’m immensely grateful for having people I didn’t want to say goodbye to. Dear HMK and CAS, if you still read The Crimson: Thank you, and (Ed)love you, always.
—Ruby J.J. Huang ’24, an Editorial Comp Director, is a History concentrator in Leverett House
Guillermo S. Hava ’23-’24, your piece, “Why I Smoke,” was the first I read as I prepared to join the Editorial Board. I was amazed by your brilliant wordsmithing and never-ending wit, but also by how honest and direct you were in your self-reflection. At that point, you were an enigma to me, the oh-so-powerful Editorial Chair — I wouldn’t have considered that in the coming months, you’d become a great friend. Thank you, Guille, for your friendship, for inspiring me to write what’s in my heart, and for always being loud about what you believe in.
—Matthew E. Nekritz ’25, a Crimson Editorial editor, is a Social Studies concentrator in Cabot House 
To Raquel Coronell Uribe ’22-’23, the President of the 149th Guard:
For many, many people, within Harvard and without, you represent a remarkable first. I would like to offer a few further firsts you represent, to me: the first person that busy and that important to listen — really listen — to me in earnest and with kindness; the first person crazy enough to listen to my ideas and say “so do it”; the first leader I’d met who made me fundamentally reconceptualize what leadership looks like; the first person who made me understand what it truly meant to sacrifice for an organization.
The first person who comes to mind when I’m asked what makes The Crimson special.
Raquel, we miss you, and we can’t wait to welcome you back to campus. No words — neither snippet nor novel — can quite capture what you’ve done for 14 Plympton, and for us.
—Tommy Barone ’25, an Editorial Comp Director, is a Social Studies concentrator in Currier House
’Twas past midnight before the deadline for comp op-ed number two, this past fall, and I was up staring at an empty Google Doc, knowing I had procrastinated just a bit too long. It took me nearly two hours that night to compose my thoughts in a way that felt genuine, and though I was frustrated with the process, I remember marveling at the blissfulness that moment brought. Furiously clacking away on my keyboard to complete silence outside the window, I rediscovered the magic of writing that I had first encountered as a young child. And three months later, that late-night product got picked up as my first published op-ed.
—Leah R. Baron ’25, a Crimson Editorial Editor, is a Statistics concentrator in Lowell House
I attended my first true Editorial Board meeting in December 2022, and though at the time it felt uncomfortable sitting in a room full of unfamiliar faces, it now stands out to me as one of my favorite memories from The Crimson. I can recall tiny sketched portraits of meeting attendees from CMX and emotional goodbyes to those who had served their final semester on the board, but also my growing sense of gratitude for this community I was now a part of.
—McKenna E. McKrell ’26, a Crimson Editorial Editor, lives in Pennypacker Hall
My favorite memory of The Crimson was when the Editorial Board reached an impasse after the majority pitch didn’t reach the two-thirds required to overturn precedent. The room erupted into chaos as votes were counted over and over, while a small group of us chuckled on the sidelines.
—Ivor K. Zimmerman ’23, a Crimson Editorial Editor, is a Classics concentrator in Kirkland House
The Crimson is characterized by its many late nights. This favorite memory of mine takes place in just one of those many moments. Having stayed up late editing a particularly frustrating piece, CMX, CJC, and I found ourselves, in the wee hours of the morning, squished in a corner of the sofa (as we refused to move the other items crowding the other corner), watching K-pop dance videos on repeat. It was a great moment of love after long hours of revisions — the perfect ending to a long night.
—Hea Pushpraj ’25, an Associate Editorial Editor, is a History concentrator in Adams House
A tour of The Crimson during early comp pulled me into 14 Plympton St. for the first time. An excited News Editor in a Harvard half-zip walked us along the halls, narrating the histories that lived within the dim lights and wooden floors. Stories of University Presidents and framed pages echoed through the building as I reflected on the significance of physical spaces and land. As a Latina, the decades-long fight for a Latine cultural center at Harvard pervaded my thoughts. I contemplated on how buildings and the mechanisms which exist within them can reinforce injustices or deconstruct them. I resolved for the latter.
—Shania D. Hurtado ’25, a Crimson Editorial Editor, is a Government concentrator in Currier House
I was running 10 minutes late to my very first comp meeting and was waiting outside of 14 Plympton St. in the cold, under a flurry of snow. I tried the front door, but it was locked, and I questioned whether I had come to the right building. Peering into the window, I caught the eye of someone inside. I watched them descend the stairs, red party cup in hand, with a compassionate smile on their face.
“Here for the Editorial comp?” they asked. I nodded eagerly, slipping inside into the warmth and scurrying towards the Sanctum.
—Lauren H. Kim ’25, a Crimson Editorial Editor, is a joint concentrator in Government and Psychology in Eliot House
After a Thursday meeting whose topic now evades me, under the warm glow of string lights, we all stood around the horrendously out-of-tune piano in the corner of the Sanctum. EHA tickled the broken ivories and — boxed wine in hand — everyone sang along. EVW harmonized, RJJH danced with HMK, and I knew then that this would be a place I’d call home.
—Sidnee N. Klein ’25, an Associate Editorial Editor, is a Sociology concentrator in Currier House
As a recently elected member of The Crimson’s Editorial Board, I’m thrilled by how many great memories I’ve already been able to make here. Above all, I’ve enjoyed my time engaging in banter with anyone else who’s been willing to entertain me during comp or in between staff-ed deliberations.
—Julia S. Dan ’26, a Crimson Editorial Editor, lives in Straus Hall
I cannot choose a single memory. I instead choose a place. The Editorial office — perpetually too small, continuously overflowing with boxed wine and a half-eaten box of Oreos, and always staffed with editors and writers tapping away on keyboards. It is home to the post-Crimson party debriefs, it is the awesome and aggravating twilight zone where time feels like a suggestion, and it is where I found my family. Memories are etched on the walls; it is the physical space we hand down to the next round of eager Editorial writers.
—Ellie H. Ashby ’24, a Crimson Editorial Editor, is a Social Studies concentrator in Adams House
Sections
On a cold and cloudless Sunday afternoon, in the spacious sanctuary of the First Parish Unitarian Universalist Church, the Reverend Robert M. Hardies is giving the Easter sermon. Through the windows, distracted parishioners can look out onto the Old Burying Ground, where volunteers are busy scattering rainbow plastic eggs for the annual Easter egg hunt. The theme of this year’s sermon is “Finding the Living Among the Dead.”
Hardies asks his congregation to look for “hope amidst despair, beauty amidst brokenness” — in other words, to look for life where it seems like there is none.
“This is the work of resurrection,” he says. He acknowledges the cemetery egg hunt is a little on the nose, and a chorus of laughs rises from the pews.
The Old Burying Ground, the oldest surviving graveyard in Cambridge, is a fixture of Harvard Square, yet mundane in its connection to the rest of the Cambridge landscape — turn right at the cemetery and you’ll find a Dunkin’, cross the street to your left and you’ll be in the Yard. On the daily walk to and from class, most Quad residents pass by the graveyard without a second glance. In the winter, when snow blankets the ground, old headstones stick through it like rows of crooked teeth. In the early days of summer, students cut through it or sit cross-legged on raised tombs, catching up on emails and texts.
The Old Burying Ground was established by the Puritans sometime around 1635, just before the founding of Harvard College. The town’s first burying ground was abandoned after wolves repeatedly dug up remains; no trace of it has ever been found.
The cemetery saw burials for almost two centuries, the resting place of every man, woman, and child who died in Cambridge — from Harvard administrators to the people they enslaved, from unnamed babies too young to be baptized to visitors buried in the “stranger’s lot.”
Over the past two decades, efforts to maintain the cemetery have drawn together a wide swath of Cambridge residents, historians, scholars, and preservationists. But their attempts to preserve the Old Burying Ground’s historical and aesthetic legacy have given rise to an entirely new set of questions: Who gets memorialized after death, and why? What makes us devote money and manpower to the upkeep of a graveyard so old that it has faded from any lingering descendants’ memories? And what does that mean for us now?
Since 1974, Charles M. Sullivan has served as the executive director of the Cambridge Historical Commission — and, by extension, as steward of the Old Burying Ground. Under his tenure, the City of Cambridge has worked to end the cycle of upkeep and neglect which, according to Sullivan, characterizes the history of the graveyard. In 2002, Sullivan hired Fannin-Lehner Preservation Consultants to assess the condition of the burying ground and embark on an ongoing restoration project.
For Minxie Jensvold Fannin and James C. Fannin, the husband-and-wife pair at the head of Fannin-Lehner, the Old Burying Ground was merely the latest chapter in a decades-long career of cemetery preservation. When Minxie Fannin, a trained architectural historian, first became interested in graveyards in the 1980s, the Boston area was littered with historic cemeteries that had largely fallen into disrepair because the cemetery trustees “had no idea how to care for them,” she says.
Caring for a cemetery this old is no simple task. The gravestones are battered by weather and pushed up by frost, cracked by falling tree branches, and sometimes damaged by vandals or clumsy tourists.
“Although they really are artistic objects and historical objects of great value, they sit out in the elements all the time,” Minxie says. Preserving the stones is like tending to an outdoor museum, one whose climate and surroundings are constantly in flux. The Fannins’ work is hard physical labor — cleaning headstones so that their inscriptions and drawings remain legible, mending broken stones with pins and epoxy, excavating and resetting tilted markers, and keeping meticulous written records of their repairs.
But the pair sees a higher purpose in their work. The tombstones are remnants of Puritan-era craftsmanship that the Fannins take pride in preserving. Many of them are painstakingly carved with images of the “death’s head” — a foreboding, winged skull, etched alongside phrases like “memento mori” (remember you must die) and “fugit hora” (the hour flies). And, beyond that, the stones represent something more intangible: the storied history of Cambridge and its famous founders.
“The stones carry a history of the town, which is still evident,” Minxie Fannin says. “Well-known families, you see their names on street signs.”
“In a way, we’re helping to preserve the history of these towns,” James Fannin says.
For Jason A. Ur, an archaeologist in the Anthropology Department, the task of preserving local history goes further than headstones — in fact, it goes beneath the surface, meters under the packed earth of the Old Burying Ground. There, Ur and his colleagues believe, lies a second class of Cantabrigians, unrecognized on street signs or Harvard buildings. Ur wants to find them.
In the back corner of the cemetery, farthest away from Harvard Square, lie the graves of three Black residents of the cemetery: a freed slave, Susan F. Lenox, and two enslaved women, Cicely and Jane, both of whom died young and were buried far from their enslavers’ families. Two freedmen, Cato Stedman and Neptune Frost, are also buried in the Old Burying Ground, though their graves are unmarked.
According to Ur, there must have been far more than these enslaved people in colonial Cambridge who would have likely been interred in the Old Burying Ground as well.
“Probably there’s a lot of people buried here that were not memorialized,” he says. “Or they were memorialized in a very different way, not with a fancy carved headstone by the Lampson family in Charlestown.”
Alongside bioarchaeologist Aja M. Lans and a team of researchers, Ur has launched a spatial analysis project to map out the seemingly barren remote reaches of the cemetery. Using radio waves, which bounce back off hidden underground objects, he predicts the team will discover the unmarked graves of Cambridge’s uncommemorated dead: enslaved people, most likely, but maybe also Native Americans and others marginalized by the town’s propertied, white community.
For our interview, Ur asks to meet me in the burying ground. Although he does his fieldwork in the Middle East, Ur became especially fascinated by the burying ground during the claustrophobic early days of the Covid-19 pandemic. After coming here for 17 years, he knows the graveyard like the back of his hand. Muscle memory guides him between familiar stones, whose carvers he often knows by name. He tells me the best time to visit is around 3 p.m., when the raking light on the headstones is “gorgeous.”
He isn’t sure what he and his team will do to recognize the unmarked dead, if they do find them.
“I don’t think we need to dig them up to reanimate them, to memorialize them,” Ur says. “For me, the production of knowledge is a form of memorialization. So I just want to know what's there.”
After the Easter Sunday sermon, I catch Hardies as he walks along the cemetery’s paths, greeting parents while their children fill their wicker baskets with eggs. He’s been thinking a lot about death, rebirth, and memory in honor of Easter, but he also mentions Cicely and Jane, who formed the topic of a sermon a few weeks ago.
“It feels like the dead are living with us still, and still make a claim on us, too,” he says. “I mean, Cicely makes a claim on us today. And we want to see how we respond to that claim.”
For Ur, Cicely’s claim demands that we tell a “fuller story” of the notable families of Cambridge and Harvard, one that doesn’t gloss over the men and women who labored for them, marginalized both in life and — as of now — in death. How the City of Cambridge chooses to memorialize those forgotten graves, he says, will be a profound reflection of the town’s current values, just as meaningful as the original decision not to mark the tombs.
“If we were to put that monument up, it wouldn’t just say, ‘there were enslaved people that were buried here,’” Ur says. “It would also say that we, in the early 21st century, felt it necessary and important to mark that fact. So it would also be talking about us.”

— Magazine writer Tamar Sarig can be reached at tamar.sarig@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @tamar_sarig.
Sections
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A panel of three researchers discussed the medical effects of psychedelic drugs at a virtual event hosted by Harvard Law School’s Petrie-Flom Center for Health Law Policy, Biotechnology, and Bioethics on Thursday.
The event, titled “Psychedelics in the Global South,” was the second of a three-part series that previously explored psychedelics in the Global North. The series is sponsored by the Project on Psychedelics Law and Regulation and the RAND Drug Policy Research Center. The conversation, moderated by POPLAR Senior Fellow Mason M. Marks, featured experts from Mexico, Brazil, and South Africa.
Marks began the panel by describing the renewed interest in psychedelics research as a “psychedelic renaissance.”
“But with all the regulation and commercial activity in the United States and Canada, it can be easy to forget that psychedelics are truly a global phenomenon,” he said.
Rafael Guimarães dos Santos, a researcher at the University of São Paulo, discussed research into a psychedelic called ayahuasca, a plant commonly used for ritual and therapeutic purposes in South American countries including Brazil, Colombia, and Ecuador.
Santos said the history of ayahuasca’s use has been marked by “several legal problems,” though ayahuasca is now legal in Brazil.
“We can promote research of ayahuasca freely in Brazil,” Santos said. “But that’s not the same around the globe.”
Santos said his own research on ayahuasca has suggested promising medical benefits of the drug.
“We are also doing the first trial for ayahuasca for university students who abused alcohol,” Santos said. “We can see the apparent reduction of days drinking and the quantity of alcohol units used.”
Sanah M. Nkadimeng, a senior lecturer at the University of South Africa, discussed psilocybin mushrooms and their potential use as a natural remedy for psychological disorders. Due to South Africa’s prohibition on the mushroom’s use as a psychedelic, however, Nkadimeng conducted her study without much previous research available.
“The research on their safety, physiological, and psychological effects is very limited even globally as well,” Nkadimeng said.
In her research, Nkadimeng found that “magic mushrooms,” despite government concerns, did not have deleterious effects on health.
“The study also showed that these mushrooms were generally safe,” Nkadimeng said. “It was showing that this was a result that actually came from the mushrooms themselves showing the antioxidants and also showing those anti-inflammatory effects.”
Laura G. Dávolos, a professor and head of the Mycology Lab at the University of Guadalajara, said though the Mexican government currently prohibits the use of psychedelic drugs, there is a long history of the use of psychedelics by Indigenous groups in the country.
“I just want to emphasize the importance of psilocybin mushrooms as sacred,” she said. “Used since time immemorial for religious and healing purposes by Indigenous groups in Mexico.”
Davalos also noted researchers have identified psilocybin’s potential uses in treating psychological and psychiatric conditions.
“We hope that the legal status before the Mexican government and other governments around the world change very soon,” she added.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard Undergraduate Queer Advocates launched a petition requesting increased access to gender-inclusive restrooms in major academic and residential buildings on campus in early April.
As of Wednesday, the petition had received 244 individual signatures and been endorsed by 28 organizations. The petition is the first major initiative of HUQAD, which launched this spring to support advocacy for LGBTQ+ rights on campus.
The petition calls on Harvard to commit to establishing at least one gender-inclusive bathroom in buildings including Sever Hall, Center for Government and International Studies South, University Hall, Harvard Art Museums, and the Littauer Center of Public Administration by the end of the fall semester.
It also requests for the College to develop a “public-facing plan” to expand access to gender-inclusive bathrooms in the Barker Center, Lamont Library, and Science Center. Finally, it asks for a “bi-monthly stakeholder meeting” to discuss progress on bathroom access.
“We believe all these achievable steps can increase transparency in the College’s ongoing efforts to expand gender-inclusive restrooms, alleviate anxiety among student populations who rely on gender-inclusive restrooms, and ensure all can safely access restrooms without disrupting their education,” the petition reads.
The petition was sent last week to administrators, including faculty deans of undergraduate houses, Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana, Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences and University President-elect Claudine Gay, and current Harvard President Lawrence S. Bacow.
Organizers wrote in an email they have not yet received a response from any of the dozens of College and University administrators they contacted.
Aaryan L. Rawal ’26, the co-president of HUQAD, said they believe “Harvard’s campus is just architecturally not designed” to provide wide access to gender-inclusive bathrooms.
“The petition was kind of born out of a simple idea that folks deserve to have access to restrooms that they feel comfortable with and that they feel safe in,” Rawal said.
Rawal, who prefers using gender-inclusive bathrooms, said they have sometimes struggled to find them on campus.
“If there is one, it might just be a single stall, it might be buried in a corner somewhere, it might not be well labeled, it might be super difficult to find,” they added.
According to a Harvard spokesperson, the College is currently focusing on increasing access to gender-inclusive restrooms through House Renewal, a $1 billion project launched in 2012 to renovate all undergraduate houses.
The spokesperson also pointed to the Office of Gender Equity’s Gender Inclusive Restroom Mapping project, which outlines the locations of gender-inclusive restrooms in the Cambridge, Allston, and Longwood campuses.
The project included two phases. The first phase took inventory of gender-inclusive restrooms in residential, academic, and administrative buildings, while the second phase created a web-based application that marks the locations of gender-inclusive restrooms at the University.
Rawal said they “fully acknowledge” there have been “some wonderful and really impactful efforts” to improve access to gender-inclusive bathrooms on campus in recent years.
“What we’re really trying to say with this petition is to basically push admin to make sure that there’s a more concrete and a more transparent plan so that folks can actually access gender-inclusive restrooms a little bit more easily,” they said.
Neha Kalra ’26, the vice president of HUQAD, said though organizers have not received an official response, the petition has the backing of multiple offices of the College.
“The letter, as far as we know, is stagnated,” they said. “And we hope that they’re working on it and preparing a response to us, and we recognize that these things take time.”
—Staff writer Hana Rostami can be reached at hana.rostami@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Boston City Council unanimously passed a resolution in support of residents and fellows organizing for official union recognition at Mass General Brigham during a council meeting Wednesday.
The resolution, initially introduced by Boston City Councilors Ruthzee Louijeune, Elizabeth A. “Liz” Breadon, and Kenzie Bok ’11, calls on MGB to recognize MGB Housestaff United, a union campaign by MGB residents and fellows that began publicly organizing in March. 
“We’re talking about housestaff who work ridiculous hours caring for our most vulnerable — our patients who need good healthcare, and Mass General Brigham could have a positive story here,” Louijeune said in an interview. “They could voluntarily recognize the union.”
“It’s so obvious that they’re in this for the long haul, they’re not giving up,” she said of the housestaff.
Organizers say they have support from a majority of residents and fellows and filed an official petition for a union election with the National Labor Relations Board on March 4, one day after their request for voluntary recognition was denied.
During the meeting, Louijeune said the city should ensure that municipal employees receive a minimum, livable wage to “set an example for our employers here in the city.”
“That is true for our doctor trainees, for the doctor, the fellows, the interns, and the residents at Mass General Brigham,” she added.
“This step will help build a system that not only ensures the safety and well-being of our physicians but also takes a look at our healthcare industry in general,” Louijeune said.
Organizers said workplace safety, burnout prevention, and adequate compensation amid rising inflation are top priorities.
“For a lot of our trainees, it’s not a livable work environment, and it can create a situation where we lose potential great doctors along the way,” Bok said at the meeting.
“The support is welcome, and I think it really shows that this effort is about Boston, it’s about workers’ rights in general,” said Sascha N. Murillo, an MGB Housestaff United organizing committee member. “I think that’s why the city council is really standing behind us, because Boston is a union city.”
Murillo, a third-year Internal Medicine resident, added that “we’re all trying to show solidarity across different fields in Boston.”
After they began to collect union authorization cards in secret, residents and fellows began receiving emails from MGB expressing appreciation for their work and informing them of new compensation increases taking effect.
Since November, trainees have received a surprise $3,500 bonus, a 10 percent raise, and additional benefits including expanded health insurance.
“Training programs should never be an opportunity to exploit workers, so a union can help secure residency and fellowship programs that allow participants to focus on becoming the best physicians they can be for the community without worrying about affording basic needs such as rent,” the resolution reads.
Jennifer Street, the senior vice president of enterprise communications at Mass General Brigham, wrote in an emailed statement that MGB is committed to supporting its employees.
“We have always worked directly with residents, placing tremendous value on their education; training the next generation of physicians is critical to our mission as academic medical centers,” Street wrote. “Through inclusion of residents as part of decision-making on matters critical to their programs, we are prioritizing the balance of clinical service and learning with providing professional and personal support.”
“Come July, our residency programs will be the highest paid in the country,” Street added.
In the interview, Louijeune called upon MGB to “come to the table, not engage in union-busting, to listen to the doctor trainees, be there with the union.”
In a response to claims of union-busting, Street wrote that Mass General Brigham uses advisors with relevant knowledge “to ensure we are working within the appropriate framework,” particularly concerning legal matters.
“While we consider advice from counsel as part of our process, ultimately Mass General Brigham is responsible for all decision-making related to our medical trainee programs,” Street wrote.
According to MGB’s website, the hospital system believes “there are important reasons to support an approach other than collective bargaining in medical education.”
“MGB could choose to voluntarily recognize the union, and they have chosen not to, and so we want to just make it clear that we stand in solidarity with all of you,” Louijeune said.
Organizers held a press conference April 19 during which they spoke about the importance of joining the Committee of Interns and Residents, a local of the Service Employees International Union, the parent union of MGB Housestaff United. At the conference, Massachusetts Nurses Association president Katie Murphy also spoke in support of the unionizing housestaff.
“It means the world to us that they would come out in such public support of us, and I think that it’s already applied some pressure on the institution,” Murillo said.
—Staff writer Cam E. Kettles can be reached at cam.kettles@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @cam_kettles.
—Staff writer Jina H. Choe can be reached at jina.choe@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Meredith L. “Max” Hodges ’03, the executive director of Boston Ballet, was elected as president of Harvard’s Board of Overseers for the 2023-24 academic year, the University announced on Thursday.
Geraldine Acuña-Sunshine ’92, a health care nonprofit leader, will serve as vice chair of the Board of Overseers’ executive committee during the same term. Both Hodges and Acuña-Sunshine were elected to the Board of Overseers — the University’s second-highest governing body — in 2018 for six-year terms and will lead the board in the final year of their terms.
Hodges and Acuña-Sunshine take over the body’s top leadership roles from Paul L. Choi ’86, a partner at Sidley Austin LLP, and Leslie P. Tolbert ’73, professor emerita and former senior vice president for research at the University of Arizona. Choi, who served as president this past year, was one of three members of the body to serve on the presidential search committee that selected Claudine Gay as the University’s 30th president.
The announcement comes as nine candidates are running for a seat on the board. Voting in the election began on March 31 and is set to conclude on May 16.
University President Lawrence S. Bacow praised Hodges and Acuña-Sunshine in a Thursday press release for their “extraordinary thoughtfulness, insight, and dedication.”
“Together they bring a valuable set of complementary perspectives to the work of the Overseers and the University,” he said. “It’s been a pleasure to serve alongside each of them, and I’m sure their leadership and commitment will be real assets to Claudine Gay as she steps into her new role.”
Hodges, who also graduated from Harvard Business School, currently serves as chair of the committee on humanities and arts for the Board of Overseers. She is also a member of the executive committee and its subcommittees on governance and visitation; finance, administration, and management; and alumni affairs and development.
Hodges said in a press release that she was “enormously honored” to be elected as president of the Board of Overseers.
“As the child of two public school teachers, I have always believed that education is the single most important source of opportunity and advancement,” she said. “Harvard sets an example for the field nationally and internationally.”
“It has been a deeply rewarding experience to serve and learn alongside such accomplished, devoted, and diverse board colleagues for the past five years, and to engage with Harvard’s extraordinary leaders,” she added.
Acuña-Sunshine, who also graduated from Harvard Kennedy School with a master’s in public policy, serves as chair of the Board of Overseers’ committee on institutional policy. She is also a member of the executive committee, the committee on natural and applied sciences, and the joint committee on inspection.
Acuña-Sunshine previously served as a board member of the Harvard Alumni Association, a position she held from 2012 to 2018. She currently serves on the HAA committee responsible for nominating Overseer and HAA elected director candidates, as well as on the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Dean’s Council.
In the press release, Acuña-Sunshine said she is looking forward to serving as vice-chair of the Board of Overseers.
“Harvard has been an important part of my life since my student days, and serving as an Overseer has been a terrific opportunity to help think about how Harvard can best serve the world,” she said.
—Staff writer Miles J. Herszenhorn can be reached at miles.herszenhorn@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @MHerszenhorn.
—Staff writer Claire Yuan can be reached at claire.yuan@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @claireyuan33.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard University President Lawrence S. Bacow defended the decision to accept a $300 million donation from Republican Party megadonor Kenneth C. Griffin ’89 and rename the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences in his honor during an interview on Monday.
Harvard affiliates criticized the University for accepting the unrestricted gift to the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, citing Griffin’s support of Republican political candidates and causes.
Critics of the donation particularly slammed Griffin’s decision to back Florida Governor Ron DeSantis for president in 2024. As governor, DeSantis has passed anti-gay legislation and spoken out against gender-affirming healthcare for transgender people.
Bacow said the University should not screen potential donors for their political affiliation.
“One of the things which we do not do — nor should we do — is have political tests for who donates,” Bacow said. “The institution does not speak with one voice.”
In response to criticisms that Harvard’s decision to rename GSAS after Griffin creates a hostile environment for LGBTQ+ Harvard affiliates, Bacow cautioned against conflating Griffin’s political views with those of the candidates he chooses to financially support.
“Ken himself is a libertarian,” Bacow said. “I suspect if you talk to him about this specific view, you might get a different response than what some politicians that he has supported might give.”
“We don’t hold individuals responsible for the actions of their countries,” he added. “We also should not hold individuals responsible for every action, every opinion of every candidate that they support.”
Griffin has publicly supported DeSantis’ “Don’t Say Gay” law, describing the politician’s stance as “a really important point of view,” per Forbes. The 2022 Florida state law prohibits curricula discussing sexual orientation and gender identity in kindergarten to third-grade public school classrooms.
Jaquelyn M. Scharnick ’06, a spokesperson for Griffin, wrote in an April 12 statement to The Crimson that it is “patently false that Ken would in any way support viewpoint restriction as he has been one of the strongest supporters of free speech and free inquiry in the country.”
“Ken said as recently as today that no one who contributes to a politician agrees 100% with their views and policy positions,” wrote Scharnick, a former Crimson News editor. “This is as true for Ken’s financial support of Governor DeSantis as it was for his backing of the campaigns of President Obama and Mayor Rahm Emanuel.”
Griffin donated nearly $60 million to Republicans during the 2022 election cycle, including a $5 million contribution to DeSantis’ reelection campaign. He has also previously donated to Democratic candidates, recently giving $500,000 to President Joe Biden’s inaugural committee.
DeSantis has not announced a bid for president.
Bacow said the decision to rename GSAS in Griffin’s honor followed a “conversation between the donor and the University.”
According to University guidelines, all large corporate gifts and naming recognition must be reviewed by the Gift Policy Committee, which is chaired by Harvard Provost Alan M. Garber ’76. Other members of the committee include Vice President for Alumni Affairs and Development Brian K. Lee, General Counsel Diane E. Lopez, and other senior University administrators and faculty members.
The Gift Policy Committee reviews the donation and makes a recommendation to the Harvard Corporation, which makes the final decision regarding financial gifts and renaming.
Bacow said Griffin, with his $300 million donation to the FAS, has contributed more than $500 million in total to the University. In 2014, Harvard renamed its Office of Financial Aid in honor of Griffin after he donated $125 million to support financial aid for Harvard College students.
“Very few people have donated that level in all of higher education. Over half a billion dollars to this university, almost all either for financial aid or totally unrestricted to the Faculty of Arts and Sciences,” Bacow said. “That’s an exceptional gift.”
“I’d be surprised if there’s another institution that has received a gift of that magnitude, which has not recognized the donor in one way or another,” he added.
—Staff writer Miles J. Herszenhorn can be reached at miles.herszenhorn@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @MHerszenhorn.
—Staff writer Claire Yuan can be reached at claire.yuan@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @claireyuan33.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
When Daniel P. Schrag arrived at Harvard in 1997, his research specialty — climate change — was beginning to take on existential importance.
Over the last two decades, as climate change has risen to the fore of American politics and academia, Schrag has risen with it to become one of the country’s top climate scientists — and a figure who is synonymous with the discipline at Harvard.
A former MacArthur “Genius” fellow who holds faculty appointments at three different Harvard schools, Schrag heads the Harvard University Center for the Environment, teaches the University’s flagship survey course on global warming, and served for eight years on President Barack Obama’s Council of Advisors for Science and Technology.
But while Schrag is known nationally as a respected voice on climate science and policy, many of those he worked with described a different side to his rise in academia.
In interviews over the past year, more than two dozen current and former students, staff, colleagues have said Schrag created a poor working environment for those around him. Schrag often undermined subordinates and emphasized the power he held over their careers, fostering a culture of distrust and fear, ​​students and staff said.
Former advisees and staff alleged a pattern of behavior in which, over the last two decades, Schrag used demeaning language, questioned their intelligence, or set unreasonable expectations while neglecting some of his own advising duties. The Crimson granted most sources anonymity because they feared retaliation given Schrag’s stature within his field and at Harvard.
In spring 2021, following an inquiry conducted primarily by Harvard’s Office for Faculty Affairs, Schrag was barred from taking on new lab members for around half a year, asked to step down as area chair of Harvard’s Environmental Science and Engineering program, and required to receive external behavioral coaching, according to two sources with direct knowledge of the situation. The disciplinary measures were confirmed by three individuals who were interviewed as part of the inquiry and subsequently informed of its outcome, including in an email obtained by The Crimson.
In a statement, Schrag said he is “deeply committed” to his role as a mentor.
“I have trained dozens of students and postdocs, preparing them for the rigorous demands of scientific research at universities and companies around the world,” Schrag wrote. “I sincerely regret if I caused some students distress, as my intent is and always was to help my students become the best scholars they can be. Supporting students and researchers at all stages in conducting the most critical and impactful research remains my highest priority.”
Schrag declined to comment further on the allegations related to his conduct.
In recent years, some of Schrag’s advising relationships have been short-lived.
Five members of Schrag’s lab said they departed in 2020 and 2021 — midway through their academic programs — due to difficulties with the working conditions or professional differences with him.
The complaints about Schrag, which span two decades, are wide-ranging, but, 25 current and former advisees, staff, and colleagues said, illustrate a pattern of bullying. Schrag often called into question the competence of those in his lab in front of their peers and other faculty, students and staff said, and set unreasonable expectations for students while not following through on advising commitments.
“Dan created a negative atmosphere through serial bullying and manipulation,” said Andrew M. Bergman, a Ph.D. candidate in Applied Physics who terminated his advising relationship with Schrag in 2021.
Three former staff members said Schrag would at times verbally denigrate them.
Schrag often questioned the intelligence of students and staff members by belittling them in front of others, students and staff said. In 2020, he frequently spoke poorly of one specific advisee to other students in his lab, Bergman said, often “denigrating them, specifically, and saying that they were not cut out for research, that they had not met expectations.”
Schrag also compared students to one another and cast doubt upon their mental health and, in turn, “their capacity to successfully carry out research and a Ph.D.,” Bergman said.
Anatoly “Toly” Rinberg, a Ph.D. candidate in Applied Physics who terminated his advising relationship with Schrag alongside Bergman in 2021, said Schrag repeatedly singled out vulnerable advisees in his lab.
“Often over the course of the year, especially in one-on-one or in small group conversations, Dan would bring up his assessments of other advisees and former advisees,” Rinberg said. “Not just that, but he would compare their work ethic and productivity and then make assessments about how they’re doing in their Ph.D.”
Schrag’s assessments of others were “sort of taken as a vehicle of control — as a way to basically create a narrative around some students doing well and others not doing well,” Rinberg said.
Having heard Schrag speculate about how other students’ mental well-being affected their productivity and quality of research, one former advisee decided to leave the lab when Schrag told them they seemed to be struggling with their mental health.
“I need to get out of here before he starts seriously undermining my work to others the way that he undermines others’ work to me, and destroys my reputation as a budding scholar, and tells everybody that I’m struggling with my mental health — when I’ve never said that I was or indicated that I was or had any issues with my productivity,” the advisee said.
Despite the concerns raised about Schrag’s behavior, many other former students detailed positive experiences with him as an adviser, saying he was demanding but cared deeply about his advisees and their work.
Sierra V. Petersen, an assistant professor in the University of Michigan’s earth and environmental sciences department, wrote in an email that she has felt supported by Schrag and other faculty and staff in Harvard’s EPS Department and has continued to have a positive working relationship with him.
“Beginning as a graduate student and continuing to this day, I have had a very positive working relationship with Dr. Schrag,” she wrote. “I have always felt supported by him in both my career and as a human being.”
“Dan was a phenomenal supervisor and has been a tremendous support to me over the course of my career,” said Alexandra V. “Sasha” Turchyn, a former advisee and now an earth sciences professor at the University of Cambridge. “I wouldn’t trade the opportunity I had working with him for anything.”
Itay Halevy, an associate professor of earth and planetary sciences at the Weizmann Institute of Science in Israel who completed his Ph.D. at Harvard under Schrag’s guidance in 2010, said Schrag “always had smart and insightful things to say about our research.”
“He’s very, very intense. Very sharp,” Halevy said. “I remember that as an early-stage graduate student, that kind of stressed me out. But, with time, as my understanding deepened and evolved, I got to enjoy that aspect of his personality.”
Kurt Z. House, a former graduate student who was advised by Schrag and completed his degree in 2008, described Schrag as a “very intuitive scientist,” saying his ability to guide students to the “main core of the problem” taught him “how to do science.”
House said scientific discussions with Schrag could be “intense,” adding that he could see how “the intensity of the scientific discussion might be hard” for some. But, he said, Schrag was “gentle” afterward and generally cared for students’ well-being.
Julie K. Shoemaker, an assistant professor at Lesley University who worked under Schrag during her time as a postdoctoral fellow and graduate student between 2002 and 2014, praised him as an adviser. She said he was “super supportive” of her as she navigated the birth of her first child and health issues that caused her to take time off.
“He’s nothing but supportive of me during those times — focused on me taking the time I needed to recover and come back in a way that felt right to me,” she said. “So I’m super appreciative of him for that. I think that it doesn’t — especially in the sciences — doesn’t always go that way.”
Schrag set high but reasonable expectations for those working in his lab, Shoemaker said, characterizing difficulties as typical for a Ph.D. program.
But not everyone in Schrag’s orbit felt his expectations were reasonable.
Three former students and staff said Schrag called them late at night, often around or after midnight, without advance notice. Former students and staff also said he would set tight deadlines for work — but forget or fail to follow up.
“That’s an ongoing trend — calling us at night, expecting like next-day deadlines, but then not following through when you do submit the work the next day,” Rinberg said.
“He would say, ‘You’re not working enough and you’re not getting things done fast enough’ and then completely forget about it after you put in like 70 hours that week to get it all done for him,” a former staff member said.
Some students also said Schrag was unhelpful and at times disruptive as an adviser, joining meetings late, derailing required gatherings with off-topic discussions, and not paying attention.
“Essentially, we would get almost to the point where actual scientific discussion or deep dives would happen and then things would just get derailed by Dan or go completely off topic,” said Eric M. Fell, a Ph.D. candidate in Materials Science and Mechanical Engineering who was a member of a research subgroup that Schrag co-advised.
Less than two months after the subgroup meetings began, Fell told his adviser the meetings were “a waste of my time” due to Schrag’s behavior. He soon stopped attending.
Schrag’s conduct came under scrutiny from administrators after multiple students anonymously reported comments he made during a departmental diversity, inclusion, and belonging subcommittee meeting in September 2020.
The students’ concerns, which were forwarded to Harvard’s Office for Faculty Affairs, centered around comments Schrag made sharing a student of color’s private information, according to two people with direct knowledge of the situation.
Two graduate students who attended the meeting said his remarks were “tokenizing” of the student. Schrag later apologized to one of the co-chairs of the DIB subcommittee in an email that was read out at a subsequent meeting.
The Office for Faculty Affairs looked into Schrag’s behavior following the concerns about the meeting. The office’s review uncovered broader complaints about Schrag’s behavior: Six among those interviewed by the office told The Crimson they relayed concerns about his workplace conduct.
As part of its inquiry, the office interviewed students and employees who had worked with Schrag across the three academic units where he holds faculty appointments: the Faculty of Arts and Sciences’ Earth and Planetary Sciences Department, Harvard’s School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, and the Harvard Kennedy School.
Following the inquiry, which concluded in early 2021, FAS Science Dean Christopher W. Stubbs and SEAS Dean Francis J. Doyle III told Schrag to step down from his role as area chair of the Environmental Science and Engineering program — a position akin to a department chair at SEAS — and temporarily barred him from taking on new lab members, according to two individuals with direct knowledge of the situation. Schrag was also assigned an external investigator to monitor his behavior for a period of time after the review and offer feedback, the sources said.
Three individuals interviewed for the office’s inquiry and subsequently informed of its outcome, including in an email obtained by The Crimson, confirmed the interim disciplinary measures.
In a joint statement, Doyle and Stubbs declined to comment on the inquiry, writing that they “cannot comment on matters related to individual faculty members.”
“We can share generally that the FAS responds to concerns that are brought forward and implements measures to support the community as appropriate,” the joint statement reads.
“The FAS Science Division and SEAS are committed to ensuring that graduate students in our programs can conduct their dissertation research and training in a supportive environment with effective advising and mentorship,” the deans added.
Schrag declined to answer specific questions about the inquiry.
Many affiliates of Harvard’s Earth and Planetary Sciences Department and Environmental Science and Engineering program said the academic units’ problems aren’t limited to Schrag.
In a 2020 EPS climate survey, 47 percent of faculty respondents reported experiencing bullying or harassment in the department. Three-quarters of all respondents reported that someone in the department had put them down or was condescending. The survey analysis included graduate students, faculty, and staff.
The department’s climate survey “demonstrated some serious issues” with the treatment of its members, wrote Camille Hankel, an EPS Ph.D. candidate who previously led the department’s GeoClub, a student group that represents graduate students in meetings with departmental leadership and organizes social events.
“It revealed that many people are experiencing incivil or hostile treatment in the department, and that there is little to no accountability for these incivil actions,” Hankel wrote in an email. “This is not surprising as there have historically been no formal and transparent avenues by which people can report incivil behavior that falls outside the purview of Title IX and expect any kind of recourse.”
In a joint statement, EPS Chair Ann Pearson and four professors who serve on her advisory committee wrote that the “EPS mission includes as a central premise that ‘all members of our community are treated with respect and are provided equal opportunities for success in our educational and work environments.’”
“In this spirit, we are committed to maintaining and improving the quality of the professional, educational, and mentoring programs in EPS,” reads the statement, signed by Pearson and professors Frank N. Keutsch, David T. Johnston, Zhiming Kuang, and Peter J. Huybers. “Our efforts support the broader emphasis across FAS to create a more supportive and inclusive learning environment.”
Many former graduate students and staff in the EPS Department pointed to one venue in particular as being exemplary of issues in the department: the Harvard ClimaTea Journal Club, a weekly meeting held at the Harvard University Center for the Environment that features guest speakers and graduate students.
At ClimaTea, eight sources said Schrag and many other faculty members would often vigorously interrogate speakers or argue with one another, with many describing the behavior as non-constructive and aggressive.
“I had never been to a supposedly informal, supposedly collegial research environment that’s so combative,” one former HUCE fellow said.
A graduate of the EPS Department described the seminars as “super uncomfortable,” because professors would often argue with each other, “almost having a show of power and intelligence” rather than “a constructive scientific discussion.”
Pearson and the professors on the advisory committee did not directly respond to a request for comment on conduct at ClimaTea.
In response to concerns raised by attendees, department leaders posted signs outlining “community discussion guidelines” in public spaces, according to Johnston, the director of graduate studies in EPS. The signs remind department members to “be mindful” of their tone and body language, to “cast objections in a constructive way,” and to “criticize ideas, not individuals.”
“When we have speakers and when students present, we want to be at the tip of the sword with respect to the scientific debate, but we also want to be good human beings and make sure that both of those are fulfilled,” Johnston said.
Following the release of the climate survey results, Hankel and Kaitlyn Loftus, who co-led the GeoClub between 2020 and 2022, helped organize a petition that collected 59 signatures calling on department leaders to develop formal procedures for handling misconduct.
During their tenure leading GeoClub, Loftus and Hankel also made a series of requests to department leaders aimed at improving conditions for graduate students, many of which they said were rejected. Namely, they said, department leaders turned down their calls to have the department collect and release data about advising experiences and commit to a procedure for reporting repeated misconduct by a faculty member to the dean.
“Department leadership in EPS has no power to directly discipline faculty who have complaints levied against them,” Loftus wrote. “However, I don’t think this lack of explicit disciplinary power excuses leadership from a responsibility to confront faculty who have repeated complaints levied against them and to try to influence them to change their behavior.”
In their joint statement, EPS and ESE leaders pointed to an array of recently developed department policies aimed at creating positive work and educational environments, including policies that provide funding and one-on-one mentoring during graduate students’ first year as well as bridge funding when a student transfers to another research group, with the option to adjust graduation year without penalty if affected by a transfer.
Last month, University administrators introduced an inaugural anti-bullying policy that is set to take effect in September. Hankel and Loftus wrote in an email that the new protocol “marks a step in the right direction.” Faculty behavior is governed by the FAS professional conduct policy. Among other guidelines, the policy instructs professors to be respectful of their students and colleagues, provide criticisms “directed at the work, not the person,” and keep confidential student information private.
The policy will require each Harvard school to designate an individual to receive reports and complaints of bullying and harassment and set up a University office to provide support and store records of complaints. Its protocol calls for an at-minimum three-person panel of neutral Harvard faculty or staff to review the facts of each case and determine if misconduct has occurred. Then, the local school’s appropriate official will determine sanctions or remedial measures given the panel’s findings.
Still, Hankel and Loftus said they take issue with the new protocol’s reliance on individual school officials to levy sanctions against those who violate policy, saying “the findings of the procedure’s investigative report” and “the procedure’s neutral panel vote on policy violation” should directly have power over the sanctions.
The former GeoClub co-presidents also said the policy will not adequately handle persistent concerns raised through informal channels of recourse.
“In addition, the policy does not explicitly address historical patterns of bullying identified via repeated informal complaints over long periods of time, which we identified as a critical issue for graduate students,” Hankel and Loftus wrote in a statement.
Appropriate sanctions or remedial measures, the anti-bullying policy states, will take into account “the severity and impact of the conduct, the respondent’s previous disciplinary history, and the goals of this Policy.”
University spokesperson Jason A. Newton declined to comment.
The distinction between bullying and acceptable academic feedback is often murky, according to some of Schrag’s former advisees.
Though Rinberg said some of the comments made by Schrag were “egregious,” many of them were “small, boundary-crossing” statements that often toed the line between innocuous and inappropriate.
Still, Rinberg said these comments created a “pervasive dynamic” that contributed to “a collective anxiety and stress” among Schrag’s research group.
In its inaugural anti-bullying policy, Harvard defines bullying as “harmful interpersonal aggression by words or actions that humiliate, degrade, demean, intimidate, or threaten an individual or individuals.”
The policy enumerates several examples of power-based harassment, including sabotage or threats to sabotage an individual’s studies or career, the needless disclosure of confidential information about another person, and the use of threats, insults, or yelling to deliver performance feedback.
“Power-based harassment is of particular concern because of the ways in which it can create a broader culture of abusive behavior,” the policy reads.
Harvard’s upcoming policy also distinguishes between bullying and certain “unpleasant or unsettling” behaviors that are appropriate for “pedagogical or employment-related responsibilities,” such critical academic feedback.
“While many in the academic community are aware of cases of heinous abuse and sexual violence, we must all also acknowledge that there is a pervasive and related culture of bullying. Professors and those in positions of power are able to act with impunity, enabled by inaction and secrecy, which disproportionately harms those who are least privileged and least able to speak up,” Bergman, Rinberg, and a former advisee wrote in a statement.
Bergman said the more “controlling” aspects of Schrag’s behavior were not immediately apparent to him until he was able to share and compare his experiences with other advisees in Schrag’s lab.
“For some time you’re questioning it yourself, but then over the years, there’s a crew of people that is all very clear-eyed that this is manipulation and controlling behavior, and that the bullying has an intent to exert control in various ways,” he said.
“It’s not knock over your head, like, ‘Oh, they did this one bad thing.’ It’s invisible, and you’re just like, ‘Is this normal?’ and then it builds and builds and builds until I finally snapped,” one graduate student in the EPS Department said.
“It’s an invisible type of behavior that’s really bad,” they said. “Toxic.”
—Associate Managing Editor Meimei Xu can be reached at meimei.xu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @MeimeiXu7.
—Associate News Editor Ariel H. Kim can be reached at ariel.kim@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @ArielH_Kim.
Editor’s Note: Meimei Xu ’24 currently serves as an Associate Managing Editor of The Crimson’s 150th Guard. Ariel H. Kim ’24 currently serves as an Associate News Editor of The Crimson’s 150th Guard. While The Crimson does not typically publish news content authored by current leadership, Xu and Kim primarily reported this article during their time as staff writers.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
It took longer than expected, but Harvard’s baseball team completed its fifth series of Ivy League conference play this season against Brown University in Providence, R.I., on Tuesday. Inclement weather forced the three-game weekend series to stretch into the workweek, but the extra time did not seem to bother the Crimson as it won the rubber game of the series, defeating the Bears 4-1.
Harvard took two out of three games against Brown, handing the Crimson its fourth Ivy League series victory of the season and continuing a remarkable turnaround from the team’s early season struggles in non-conference play.
The beginning of the season could not have started more turbulently for Harvard. Losing its first four series, the Crimson entered Ivy League play with a record of 2-14, having just recently broken a 12-game losing streak. This was Harvard’s worst start since 2013 when it opened at 1-14 and finished the season at 10-31.
“It was not like we played awful,” head coach Bill Decker said. “We just got walked off six or seven times and that’s disheartening to begin with, but you’ve got to move past that, which we have.”
After a deflating series against Texas A&M Corpus Christi that included a 24-3 loss, it seemed very possible that Harvard would continue this trend for the rest of the season. However, Harvard proved during the second half of the season that it could turn things around. Making a complete 180, the Crimson has gone 10-5 in conference play, finding itself tied for third in the Ivy League standings and just a single game behind first-place Columbia with six games left in the season.
“I mean, obviously, there's a little bit of disappointment in some of the games up north that we've played in,” Decker said, referring to the team’s rough start to the year. “But, for the most part, this club has stayed together. They’ve rallied around one another.”
The turnaround started in early March when Harvard traveled to Philadelphia to face the University of Pennsylvania for its first conference series of the year. The Crimson went 2-1 in the three-game series, which included an extra-inning opening game that was won on a solo shot by senior first baseman Logan Bravo in the top of the tenth inning.
“We got multiple guys in our clubhouse that are able to put this team on their backs,” Decker said of Bravo’s walk-off.  “It's just got to be consistent. And you know, if one guy is having a little bit of an average day, hopefully, somebody else can step up.”
Returning to Cambridge, the Crimson played a single non-conference game against the Holy Cross Crusaders of Worcester, Mass.  In another close game, Harvard defeated its opponent 6-5 behind 2-RBI days from senior second baseman Hunter Baldwin and first-year shortstop Gio Colasante.
Staying on its home turf, Harvard next matched up with Ivy League rival Princeton for a three-game series. In three high-scoring bouts, the Crimson replicated its result from the Penn series, winning the series at a 2-1 score. Highlighting this series was a doubleheader sweep by Harvard on Apr. 2, powered by strong performances by Bravo, junior third baseman Jake Berger, senior infielder Will Jacobsen and junior right fielder Ben Rounds. The consistency of these four —who make up the top four spots in the lineup — has been a constant factor in Harvard's success this season.
Staying local, the Crimson next traveled to Brookline, Mass. to play the Northeastern Huskies in a first-round, single-elimination Beanpot tournament game. Down 3-2 at the top of the ninth inning, the Crimson scored two late runs behind a sacrifice fly from Rounds and a throwing error from Northeastern, pushing Harvard ahead 4-3 and securing a spot in the Beanpot final.
Harvard then trekked north to play another three-game conference series against Dartmouth in Hanover, N.H. The Crimson swept its Ivy League foe three games to none, behind stellar performances from junior outfielder Peter Messervy (7 hits, 3 RBI in the series) and sophomore right-hander Sean Matson (8.0 IP, 1 ER, 10 SO).
Returning home to Mass., the Crimson turned its attention to the Beanpot championship game, in which Harvard matched up against the No. 11-ranked Boston College Eagles. The Crimson lost in heartbreaking fashion, losing to the Eagles 5-4 on a walk-off home run in the bottom of the ninth inning.
Returning to Ivy League play, the Crimson hosted Cornell in mid-April for a three-game series. Harvard
Concluding a four-game home stand, the Crimson played a single game against the newly Division I-minted Stonehill College. After taking a quick 4-0 lead, Harvard’s bats fell silent as the game progressed, getting shut out from the third inning and going on to lose 8-4.
Despite losses along the way, this rejuvenated Crimson team has brought a fire and clutch gene that was nowhere to be found in much of the early season. Turning its attention to a three-game series against Columbia this upcoming weekend, Harvard will enter a crucial stretch that will ultimately decide where it lands in the Ivy League standings and postseason play.
“We need to go out and we need to worry about what we're doing,” Decker said. “And right now it's game one versus Columbia.”
— Staff writer Jack Canavan can be reached at jack.canavan@thecrimson.com.
— Staff writer Miles J. Herszenhorn can be reached at miles.herszenhorn@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter at @MHerszenhorn.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In the penultimate game of its 2023 regular season, Harvard women’s lacrosse left nothing on the table. The Crimson defeated Columbia 19-4 with nine different goal-scorers. The dynamic duo of junior attackers Callie Hem and Riley Campbell led the pack with five and four goals, respectively.
This win was not just monumental because of the Crimson’s stellar performance, but because it celebrated its senior players. Nine seniors stepped onto Jordan Field on Saturday in celebration of four years of dedication and commitment to the women’s lacrosse program. On a day filled with celebration, senior Grace Hulslander reflected on her invaluable time as a part of this team.
“To me the fact that this day had finally come for myself and I was finally the person walking down the tunnel was honestly unreal. I couldn't believe it was me and my time,” Huslander reflected. “It really was a full circle moment. It was full of so much happiness and joy.”
Hulslander’s year was cut short after a season-ending injury in the Crimson’s first game against Michigan. As a member of the 2022 All-Ivy First-Team, she has found a way to contribute her knowledge and expertise to her team embracing her new role.
“I think coming into this year and being a super senior, I knew that this team is special. Having so many ups and downs, I knew my injury was really just another piece of adversity in my life [and] it was all about how I responded,” Huslander said.
“I’ve really thought about what I can do to help the girls on the field succeed, whether it’s score more goals or even make a defensive stop,” she continued. “I’m so proud of the team and where they’ve gone. I’m so excited to see what they are going to do this weekend.”
Hulslander continued to speak on not only making an impact on her team, but the greater lacrosse community and women’s sports more generally.
“I’ve always been trying to empower and inspire younger girls through women’s lacrosse. This is not only for the team and the season but for the program for years to come —I’ve always wanted to be a part of creating something special here at Harvard,” Hulslander stated.
For this day in particular, senior midfielder Stephanie Hong had much to celebrate. The senior from Bethesda, Maryland was not only met by a fierce Lvy league opponent on Saturday, but her younger sister, Columbia’s first-year midfielder Serena Hong. It was a day for her to not only celebrate Harvard women’s lacrosse, but to be joined by her family in honoring her last year of lacrosse.
“I overlapped with [Serena] one year in high school and that was the best year getting to play with my sister —having her here on my senior day was the best feeling [I] could have,” Hong said.
What made the day more meaningful for Hong was the growth of the program this year and collective dedication the group has had in the past four years.
“The team this year is the closest it has ever been, which is so exciting. We have grown so much this year,” she said. “I would not change where we were or where we started because I think the way that we have grown made this season feel so much more special and meaningful.”
The Crimson walked away with full hearts and much appreciation for its nine seniors. However, its work on the season is not quite finished – Harvard will travel to Princeton to play the Tigers in its last regular season game, which will determine its fate in the Ivy League Tournament. With a win against the Tigers, the Crimson will most likely get the No. 2 seed. Tune in on Sunday on ESPN+ at 12:00pm to catch the action.
-Staff writer Hannah Bebar can be reached at hannah.bebar@thecrimson.com
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
No. 12 Harvard men’s tennis (19-5, 7-0) completed its clean sweep of conference matches to capture the Ivy League title last weekend in Princeton, N.J. The Crimson took on No. 54 Princeton (16-3, 3-4), ultimately defeating the Tigers 6-1. This marks Harvard’s second undefeated Ivy title in a row.
“To go back to back undefeated seasons is obviously quite a challenge and quite an accomplishment,” head coach Andrew Rueb said.
The final match — the Crimson’s first face-off with the Tigers in the spring season — reflected the momentum the team had built up over the course of conference play. Doubles, which has been a strength throughout the season, proved an instrumental aspect of the match.
In the collegiate format, the first team to win two of three six-game doubles matches takes the doubles point. The quick format creates necessary momentum for players and leaves the team that earns the point in need of just three singles victories to complete the win.
The doubles pairing of sophomore Daniel Milavsky and senior captain No. 35 Harris Walker took the first win of the day on the top court against Princeton’s Thomas Bosancic and Ellis Short, 6-3. Trouble arose when simultaneously, the Tigers’ Alan Kam and Sebastian Sec defeated sophomore David Lins and junior Alan Yim, 6-3. The doubles point came down to the second-court match between junior Ronan Jachuck and senior Steven Sun and Princeton’s Filippos Astreinidis and Top Nidunjianzan. Jachuck and Sun, who went 18-4 in the 2022-23 season, fought for the break at 4-4 to win the match, 6-4.
“I think we want to keep pushing our doubles,” Rueb said. “When we're playing excellent doubles, it makes us very tough to beat. And we're almost there, we're putting the pieces together.”
After winning the doubles point, Harvard needed at least three singles wins to secure the Ancient Eight title. On the top court, Walker had a straight-set victory over Nidunjianzan, 6-3, 6-4. First-year Valdemar Pape fought back after dropping his first set 5-7 to win in the No. 6 position against Matthew Bosancic, 5-7, 6-3, 1-0. It was Sun who ultimately cliched the Ivy title with his 6-4, 6-3, win against Ellis Short on the fifth court. Meanwhile, No. 27 junior All-American Henry von der Schulenburg fought for a comeback against Bosancic, fighting back from a set down for the final win of the match, 0-6, 6-4, 7-5.
“Certainly, as a coach, you're just so proud of the work they put in,” Rueb shared. “They drew on all that hard work when the pressure moments came, and I thought they responded beautifully, and just clearly have a great competitive fight and spirit — I think that was really what defines this team and what has made them successful.”
With this impressive repeat of last year’s undefeated Ivy title — the first of its kind since the 2003 and 2004 seasons — it’s impossible not to wonder what this team is doing differently. According to Rueb, it’s a complex alchemy of many factors.
“We're very grateful as coaches to work with a team that has high aspirations, and we don't feel like we're dragging them along. They're pushing forward, and we're working with them,” Rueb explained. “And I think that that's really all you can ask for as a coach.”
Ivy play began on April 1, when the Crimson traveled to Dartmouth. Coming off of a close loss against the reigning NCAA champions University of Virginia the weekend prior, Harvard fought hard to kick off its conference streak. After closing out their match against the Big Green, 6-1, the Crimson hit the road again for face-offs with the rest of the Ancient Eight.
Harvard will compete next in the NCAA Division I National Championship. Last spring, the Crimson, ranked No. 14 at the time, fell to Stanford in the second round of the tournament. Given their impressive run in both singles and doubles this season, it would be unsurprising to see them take it further.
“I think if we can just improve ourselves a little bit more in doubles, that gives us a really potent one-two punch here with our singles,” Rueb said. “So that's certainly going to be a focus the next week or so.”
Official team selections and match locations will be announced by the NCAA in a livestream on Monday, May 1, with the first round of play set to begin on May 5.
— Staff writer Caroline G. Gage can be reached at caroline.gage@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
If you still have unused Board Plus and are wondering how you can possibly spend it all in the next two weeks, we have just the place for you. Consider visiting the Divinity School Cafe located inside the new Swartz Hall on Francis Ave (on a day when the dhalls are not serving butter chicken, of course!). A walkable distance from the Yard, this HDS common space offers delicious breakfast and lunch options that range from grab n’ go pastries to Cajun chicken paninis. It is the perfect hideaway spot to enjoy a moment of peace and recharge before returning to the hectic exciting energy around the Yard.
Overall Vibes! 
Like most graduate schools, the Divinity School has a relatively quiet campus. So, the cafe offers a calm, relaxed space where you can focus on your work or catch up with a friend. There are both chair and couch seats, but the tables are generally not too big so conversation noises are usually light. The space is well-lit, with lots of natural light pouring in. The color scheme is great too– the interior design’s palette is mostly green, white, and light gray–which aligns with the healthy food selections offered on the menu:
Grab n’ Go Yogurt & Granola
This HUDS-manufactured yogurt and granola cup comes in vanilla, strawberry, and blueberry flavors, and the creamy texture matches Chobani standards. Most important of all – there is enough granola in there. Anyone else always worried that your granola will run out before yogurt does? #Yourenotalone
Sizzling Teriyaki Bowl
A must-try in my opinion. The creaminess of teriyaki mushroom melange and field greens paired with roasted broccoli, pickled cucumber, and sesame seeds that are just the right amount of crispiness scream umami (the official taste of Flyby). Ginger dressing adds a light savory flavor to the bowl, which also includes your personal selection of protein from grilled chicken, grilled salmon, sauteed seitan, or tofu.
Mezze Bowl 
So rich in flavor that it almost tastes too good to be healthy. The combination of hummus, tabouleh, falafel crumbs, and pita chips contrasts the refreshing taste of lemon tahini dressing on baby spinach and Fattoush salad. It is to rival Tatte. A great choice with or without protein.
Burrito Bowl 
It was… slightly disappointing in comparison to the other burrito bowl options near campus (No, I have never heard of El Jefe’s. Don’t ask me about it). The combo of sour cream and cilantro lime dressing kind of overpowered the savory taste that I’d expect in a burrito bowl. And it had very few hot toppings, which made it taste more like a salad instead.
Grilled Chicken Sandwich
Nice and fresh with avocado, lettuce, and Caesar dressing on a spinach wrap, very similar to the weekday FlyBy (oddly familiar name…) signature down in Mem Hall basement.
Other Grill
Burgers, chicken fingers, and french fries are served hot and chewy. The skin of chicken fingers is beautifully cooked so that it’s soft and crisp, a classic pair with some good ol’ HUDS fries.
You heard it here first: the Divinity School cafe is a worthy use of your Board Plus if you’re looking for a quick bite between classes or a change of scener
Sections
From typewriters and typesetting to laptops and InDesign, a lot has changed since the founding of the oldest continuously published college daily in the nation. In this photo essay, Crimson Multimedia Staff recreate archival photos from the paper’s past.
Crimson editors lounge and chat on the rooftop of 14 Plympton St. in 1958, the year of the 85th Guard. Current Crimson editors recreate the 1958 rooftop photo nearly 65 years later. Seated center is Cara J. Chang ’24, president of the 150th Guard.
Crimson Managing Editor Brandon L. Kingdollar ’24 pores over the paper. On the right, Crimson editors do the same in 1957.
Crimson photographers captured on camera in the newsroom 66 years apart. On the left, Crimson Multimedia executive Marina Qu ’25 and on the right, a member of the Crimson's 84th Guard.
On the left, Crimson editors of the 70th Guard gather around a table in the newsroom. Students gather around similar tables today.
On the left, Neil H. Shah ’26 picks up the April 21, 2023 copy of The Crimson. On the right, Norman J. Walsh ’46 picks up a Crimson copy that was delivered to his door.
