News
Amid Intense Internal Dispute, Harvard Graduate Council Votes to Remove Finance Chair, Alleging Misconduct
News
Outgoing Harvard President Lawrence Bacow Earned $1.3 Million in 2021, Financial Disclosures Show
News
Harvard Graduate Student Plans to Sue MBTA Following Harvard T Station Injury
News
Harvard Police Chief ‘100%’ Backs Student and Alumni Demands After Leverett Swatting Attack
News
Madras Dosa Co. Brings a Dose of Dosa to Harvard Square
Harvard track and field made program history this past weekend during the Ivy League Heptagonal Championships at the University of Pennsylvania. For the first time in history, both the men’s and women’s teams won the Ivy League title. The historic win marks the men’s team’s eleventh title, and first since 1983. The women’s team claimed their sixth outdoor championship title, along with the honor of triple-crowning.
On day one of Heptagonals, the Crimson already set up a path for success with four athletes earning Ivy League titles.
“The team knew what we wanted to do, and we knew how we had to do it. We had to go into the meet prepared and looking for points in every event,” sophomore Graham Blanks reflected. “I think it ended up pretty well. Everyone ended up performing to their best, and we had a really good day.”
Senior Stephanie Ratcliffe threw 67.93 m in the women’s hammer throw to bring home the first gold medal for Harvard and senior Cammy Garabian took bronze with a throw of 60.29m. In the women’s pole vault, sophomore Anastasia Retsa took second place with a jump of 3.93 m.
Sophomore Kenneth Ikeji threw 74.07 m, a whole 13 meters ahead of second place to win the men’s hammer throw. In the men’s javelin throw, sophomore Jeremiah Swett threw 61.67 m to win first place, with teammate senior John Minicus throwing 60.18 m to win second place.
In the men’s 10,000 m run, Blanks ran a time of 29:46.69 seconds to earn first place, with junior Acer Iverson coming in second with a time of 29:54.56 seconds. Their podium finishes earned the team 16 points. Sophomore Ella Gilson also got on the podium for the women’s 10,000 m run, taking second place with a time of 34:22.07 seconds.
“Acer and I wanted to score as many points as possible for the team, so just trying to finish in that top two spots, combining for as many points as we could,” Blanks said. “In terms of the racing, it’s a little bit different when you get to these championship races — a little more strategic. So, Acer and I just, per Coach Gibby’s plans, sat in the back. When the race started to wind up and there were only a few laps left, then we would move up and try to put in some fast pace surges.”
Going into day two, the men’s team led the rest of the competition with 48 points. On the women’s side, they sat in second place to Princeton with 36 points.
Starting off on the field, in the men’s triple jump, sophomore Daniel Falode jumped 15.41 meters to take first place in the event. Sophomore Chet Ellis got on the podium for Harvard in the men’s high jump, earning bronze with a mark of 2.08 meters. In the men’s decathlon, Minicus, the school record holder for the event, finished in third place, scoring 6853 points. In the women’s heptathlon, sophomore Jada Johnson earned first place with a score of 5153 points, with first-year Fabiola Belibi finishing close behind in second place with a score of 4729 points.
The throwers dominated for the Crimson. Senior Alexander Kolesnikoff won the men’s shot put with a throw of 19.92 meters, two meters farther than the second-place finisher. In the same event for the women’s, junior Sarah Omoregie claimed first place as well, throwing 17.41 meters, two meters farther than the first-place finisher. Junior Estel Valeanu also got on the podium in third place, throwing 15.28 meters.
On the track, Harvard’s sprinters continued racking up points.
In the women’s 4x100m relay, the team earned second place with a time of 45.35 seconds. In the men’s 4x100m relay, the team of first-years Cam Henry and Jonas Clarke and juniors Lance Ward and Collin Fullen earned first place in a time of 40.35 seconds, a mere 0.02 seconds ahead of Penn. Clarke secured their gold medal with a crucial lean at the finish line.
In the women’s 100 m hurdles, first-year Josefina Biernacki ran a time of 13.73 seconds to take second place as the only Crimson athlete in the event. In the men’s 110 m hurdles, senior Aaron Shirley and sophomore Samuel Bennett both got on the podium, earning second place with a time of 14.10 seconds and third place with a time of 14.11 seconds, respectively.
In the women’s 100 m, senior Tina Martin ran a time of 11.61 seconds to earn second place in the event. For the men’s 100 m, it was Ward who got on the podium for the Crimson, running a time of 10.47 seconds to earn second place.
In the women’s 400 m hurdles, sophomore Chloe Fair topped the podium with a time of 57.75 seconds. Harvard swept the men’s 400m hurdles, with Shirley winning first place in 50.33 seconds, and first-year Ondrej Vesely and sophomore Peter Fischer earning second and third with times of 50.87 and 52.36 seconds, respectively.
Sophomore Victoria Bossong ran a time of 52.55 seconds to earn first place in the women’s 400 m. In the women’s 200 m, Martin returned to get on the podium in first place with a time of 23.295 seconds, with first-year Adaji Osaro-Igwe following closely behind in second place, running 23.297 seconds. In the men’s 200 m, Ward returned yet again to the track to earn third place, running 20.72 seconds.
The Harvard distance runners kept up with the sprinters, continuing their winning streak.
In the women’s 3000 m steeplechase, first-year Kristin Otervik got on the podium in third place, running 10:25.25 seconds. In the same event for the men’s, sophomore Reed Pryor ran 8:51.72 seconds to earn second place.
In the 1500 m final run, it was sophomore Maia Ramsden, the school record holder for the event, who claimed first place with a time of 4:12.54 seconds. In the men's 1500 m run, first-year Vivien Henz, who just previously set the men’s school record, ran 3:44.16 seconds to earn second place.
“In the 1500, we wanted it to be fast,” said Ramsden about the coach’s advice going into her race. “I think that’s a lot different than last year, where I was just going to race with the field, sit on the leader, and kind of make it fast if we have to. This year we kind of had some goals for what the first half of the race should look like, and that was to go out pretty hard. I ended up going out a little too hard, but it worked out in the end.”
In the 800 m, junior Peter Diebold was the sole Crimson athlete in the event for men and women, and he emerged with a third-place finish in a time of 1:50.55 seconds.
In the women’s 5000 m run, Ramsden returned to the track again to claim her second Ivy League title of the meet, winning the event in a time of 16:19.18 seconds, a near four seconds quicker than the second-place finisher. In the men’s 5000 m, both Blanks and Iverson repeated their first and second-place finishes, respectively. Blanks ran a time of 13:56.44 seconds, while Iverson followed shortly behind with a time of 13:59.79 seconds.
In the last event of the day, both the men’s and women’s teams were in a solid position to win the trophy. The women’s 4x400m relay team of Bossong, first-year Jackie Okereke, Martin, and Fair earned second place in 3:37.97 seconds, falling behind Princeton by just a sixth of a second. In the men’s 4x400m relay race, the team of Shirley, junior Gregory Lapit, and sophomores Jonathan Gamarra and Steffan Jones ran a time of 3:08.31 seconds to earn third place.
At the conclusion of the second day, both teams were crowned the Ivy League champions. The men’s team won the meet with a score of 203 points, a full 66 points ahead of the indoor champions — the Princeton Tigers. Their win marks the eleventh Outdoor Championship win for the Crimson men’s program and the first victory in 40 years.
The Harvard women’s team won the championship with 193 points, 33 more than runner-up Princeton. Their victory completes the women’s track and cross country team’s triple crown this season, as they’ve also won the cross country Heptagonals in the fall and the Indoor Heptagonal Championships in the winter.
“It feels great,” said Blanks about being a part of the historic win. “A cool part about our track program is it’s definitely a combined program, which isn’t normally the way it works in a lot of schools, but the men and women are one unit.”
“A lot of us train together, we all spend time with each other, so it was great to share that accomplishment with the women’s team, and pick up a trophy for the men’s team,” he continued. “The women’s team has been making it look easy for the past few years, so it was nice to finally share that.”
“It was so good,” added Ramsden about the team’s reaction to winning. “It was the most fun hour when they were announcing the winners. Everybody was spraying water everywhere, we were dumping water on our coaches. I think for the men to do it as well, that was huge for them. So this year it was really intense joy, it was great.”
At the conclusion of the meet, a number of individual athletes were also recognized for their performances.
Ramsden was named the Women’s Outstanding Track Performer for the championship meet for her two gold medals in the 1500 m run and 5000 m run. Ikeji was named the Men’s Most Outstanding Field Performer for his throws.
“Just super grateful,” said Ramsden about winning her award. “I’m really grateful that I got the opportunity to run [both races] and that I had teammates in both races. It’s a really nice recognition I think. I was really happy to receive that, it was good.”
The team also had 32 athletes named All-Ivy Status.
“We had a lot of people step up, to the point where we didn’t need anyone else to step up,” said Blanks about the team’s most exciting performances. “The 4x100 was particularly exciting with Jonas Clarke, a freshman, coming in hot at the end from behind to get the win just barely over some good teams. It was probably just our best all-around team performance we’ve had at least since I’ve been here.”
In addition, Head Coach Jason Saretsky was unanimously selected as the Ivy League men’s and women’s coach of the year.
“Coach Saretsky I’m sure was just elated,” said Blanks about the coach’s reaction to winning. “It’s a trophy that’s evaded our team for forty years now, so I think Saretsky was pretty excited about the circumstance, especially considering the margin that both teams won by. It was a really big weekend for the team and hopefully a turning point in the program for dominance to come.”
Up next for the Crimson, athletes will compete this weekend at the New England Championships and ICAC/ECAC championships to try and earn a spot in the NCAA East Preliminary rounds.
“I think the first step is actually happening soon, this weekend we’re trying to get more people to qualify,” said Ramsden about goals the team has going forward into the postseason.  “A couple of teammates and I are going down to help pace, and race and get in the zone with everybody. I think it’s a reflection of our program, the more qualifiers we can have at NCAA Regionals. So definitely trying to help and support and motivate as many people as we can this first weekend.”
— Staff writer Nadia A. Fairfax can be reached at nadia.fairfax@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Amid Intense Internal Dispute, Harvard Graduate Council Votes to Remove Finance Chair, Alleging Misconduct
News
Outgoing Harvard President Lawrence Bacow Earned $1.3 Million in 2021, Financial Disclosures Show
News
Harvard Graduate Student Plans to Sue MBTA Following Harvard T Station Injury
News
Harvard Police Chief ‘100%’ Backs Student and Alumni Demands After Leverett Swatting Attack
News
Madras Dosa Co. Brings a Dose of Dosa to Harvard Square
In a season that was highly touted by the lacrosse community as being a breakout for the Harvard men’s lacrosse team, the young squad finished decisively lower in the ranking than was expected. Despite building on the young team led by mostly first-years in the 2022 season, the Crimson was unable to make a repeat NCAA tournament appearance.
Ranked No. 13 heading into the season, the inclusion of new first-year players like attackman Teddy Malone, SSDM Owen Guest, and defenseman Charlie Muller seemed to round out the gaps left open with the graduation of several key players, but the overall cohesiveness of the team felt markedly less than in past years.
Even with this new recruiting class making an instant effect on the lineup, the team lagged in some areas that needed improvement last year, as well as areas in which it excelled in the 2022 season. Losing FOGOs Kyle Massimilian and Steven Cuccurullo, as well as goalie Kyle Mullin, was perhaps the most impactful. Stepping in at the faceoff X were first-year Matt Barraco — who sat out of fall ball with a back injury — and sophomore Andrew DeGennaro, who played third-string to the two seniors last season.
Faceoff play was an area that the team needed to improve last year, and is something that put Harvard at a disadvantage this season as well. In goal, Mullin — who started every game and is now the starting goaltender at Rutgers, an impressive program that defeated the Crimson in the first round of the NCAA Tournament last year — was succeeded by junior Christian Barnard. Goaltending was an area of strength last year, and while something that started a little shaky, became progressively more solid as Barnard gained confidence in the role.
While the loss of these three fifth-year seniors in these two integral areas of play ultimately shaped the team’s success in those positions, there was an additional area of play that lapsed in comparison to last year: offense. Perhaps it was losing dynamic dodger and initiator Austin Madronic, who now plays professional box lacrosse with the Saskatchewan Rush, but there was something missing within the offensive units.
The team’s last two games of the season against Princeton and Yale are clear markers of this shift on the offensive end. In both of these games, the offense felt a step behind its opponent. The lines were unable to attack the middle and were forced to choose outside lanes that afforded the guys less-than-desirable outside shots. They were stuck in these matchups because the defense was able to rotate and send help, which left the Crimson unable to make the skip pass and hit the backside for better looks. This created a sort of frantic feeling that was present in many of the offensive sets throughout the season and led to poor decision-making in some integral moments.
This rushed play was only compounded by the fact that the offense was at a disadvantage in possession time due to losses at the faceoff. A thread through the last two seasons was pressure put on the defensive squad to perform at a disproportionate level in order to stop the fast break on the faceoff, lock down on sets, and then clear to the offense for an opportunity to score. The defense, composed of a young group of players led by sophomores Tommy Matinson, Collin Bergstrom, and Martin Nelson at low D, senior Chase Yager, and sophomores Ray Dearth and Andrew O’Berry at SSDM, and junior Greg Campisi at LSDM, all stepped up to the plate game after game.
Led by Head Coach Gerry Byrne, who over two stints at Notre Dame ran the renowned defense for the Irish for sixteen seasons, the young defense has excelled and grown markedly since 2022. However, despite these changes, there were moments of greatness on both ends of the field that allowed Harvard to remain competitive. These glimpses of cohesiveness in which the team worked together as a single entity across the turf are indicative of why it ranked so highly before its first game against the University of Virginia.
“Entering the season ranked No. 13 in several media and coaches polls reflected our 2022 success and NCAA Tournament appearance and the youth movement that had become the foundation of our team,” Byrne commented. “Unfortunately that youth helped fuel some of our inconsistency but also created moments of brilliance that shined in victories over Brown and Cornell and our battle with No.1 Virginia to start the season.”
This inconsistency ultimately proved to be the downfall of the team at the end of the season as the Crimson was unable to build on momentum stirred with an upset victory over No. 6 Cornell. As is often written about this particular group, youth is the key factor in how the players are defined. As a lineup of first-years and sophomores quarterbacking a squad competing with teams that boast starting sets composed of upperclassmen and graduate students, there seems to be a lack of scarcity and intensity that inform the mindset of the team. With this squad, there is no end in sight, which makes every play feel redeemable. Unlike the Crimson, but as is the case with a team that plays mostly seniors, there is a feeling of finality with every game. The end is in sight —every ground ball, shot, and defensive slide might be the last. Harvard had all the pieces this last season, but what it missed was this feeling of drive, of fire to win and compete on the biggest stage, and to meet the level of teams that brought that competitiveness to the field.
“We went down against both teams early which ended up costing us the game — I think that is the biggest reason we didn’t achieve our goals this season,” Barnard said. “We did not score or get stops in key moments of the game and gave up too many runs to other teams. I believe that we had all the pieces that we needed, but just didn’t put them together at the right times.”
Having these pieces and players necessary to compete is essential to winning, but so is having the right mindset. Framing a season and a team around having opportunities down the line ultimately limits the capacity of the current team, and leaves room for failure in the present with a hope for success in the future. It is interesting to watch the program grow, to either fail or to rise and meet challenges, because with so much potential, the lessons learned through the last two seasons should ultimately guide and predict future successes.
Allowing other schools to dictate games — which forced the Crimson to chase the lead on the scoreboard —  is indicative of youth. As the squad matures, it has the ability to make an impact and shift to a more confident mindset backed up by the desire to win and the ability to do so. However, it does not excuse the fact that this focus lapsed in for quarters at a time in many games.
“I think missing the Ivy League tournament is inexcusable and we need to take that mindset into next year. We all need to be better,” Barnard commented.
Echoed by sophomore attackman Sam King, this sentiment of “doing better” ultimately fostered a feeling of frustration within the team: “The season as a whole was very frustrating partly because of what we knew we were capable of. We had flashes of great quarters and halves but struggled to play a complete game for a lot of the season. I think that was a problem for both the Yale and Princeton game,” King noted. “That being said, we have a lot to learn from and the guys returning are hungry and ready to do what it takes to be better next year.”
Looking into the next season, there is only room for the team to do better. With upperclassmen like Barnard and King emphasizing the team’s need to perform at the level they know they are capable of, the tenacity in bouncing back and excelling past the performances of the last two seasons is palpable.
“All you can ask for as a team is the opportunity to control your own destiny at the end of the year and that's exactly what we have,”  junior attackman Graham Blake remarked.  “We have a really talented group that hasn't begun to scratch the surface of how good we can be.”
Despite the constant emphasis on the younger players in this program, there were twelve seniors who contributed to the victories earned by the team. Plagued by the Covid-19 pandemic, two canceled seasons, a coaching change, and other adversities, this group of seniors led the squad through an unprecedented amount of turmoil to the most successful last two seasons seen since the 1990s. While the year might have ended more abruptly than 2022, their remarks on the program are indicative of how much they have invested in Harvard Lacrosse, and showcase their confidence in the team’s ability to grow in future seasons:
“My journey with the Harvard lacrosse program has been the most incredible and fulfilling experience of my life. No words can truly capture what this program, and all its members, have meant to me and my time here. I have been blessed to live out a childhood dream, all while showered with love from 50-plus of the most amazing, dedicated individuals you could ever meet, and it was better than I ever could have imagined. I will forever be grateful to Coach Byrne and the coaching staff for welcoming me into the program and thank you to my family for pushing me and supporting me in pursuing this. It was worth every ounce of effort and more.” — Connor Bond
“Playing Harvard Lacrosse has been the greatest honor of my life. I feel privileged to have been part of such an outstanding program surrounded by the best friends, teammates, coaches, and family in the world. While I will miss putting on the jersey, I am beyond excited to stay connected and watch this program thrive in the years to come.” — Hayden Cheek
“The past five years have been the best of my life. I’m so grateful for my time on this team, and all that I’ve been able to experience because of this team. I’ve gained friends that will last a lifetime and shared memories with them that I will never forget. Thank you, Harvard Lacrosse.” — Isaiah Dawson
“Being on the Harvard men’s lacrosse team throughout my career at Harvard has been an unforgettable and incredibly memorable experience that I will remember and cherish for the rest of my life. The quality of men inside the program, the people around the program, and the alumni base constantly made me better as a person, and I am eternally grateful to have had the opportunity to wear the jersey for four years. I am so excited about the future of Harvard Lacrosse, and cannot wait to support the future teams from the sidelines.” — Bryn Evans
“Being a member of this team has been the most rewarding experience of my life. Thank you to my teammates for making it so special. The program is in great hands and I’m excited to see all of the future success.” — Zach Hobbes
“I’m so excited to see where this program is going but at the same time believe I also need to give credit where credit is due. So, thank you to Coach Wojcik for recruiting our class. Going to Harvard has been the single most impactful decision in my life, and I can’t thank him enough for taking a chance on me and my class. I love where we are as a program and am excited to see Coach Byrne take our team to an Ivy League title.” —  Ollie Hollo
“Playing Harvard Lacrosse has been, by far, the greatest experience of my life. Nothing could possibly compare. I have never before done something so demanding yet so delightful, so frustrating yet so fulfilling, and so bizarre yet so Best. I have cherished every moment I have spent as a member of the Harvard Lacrosse team. I’ve loved it all. I have made so many indelible memories and met so many incredible people. I have learned a lot during my time at Harvard and one thing I know for sure is that there is not a greater group of young men on the planet than those in the Harvard Lacrosse locker room. I’ll miss you, boys, the most. Finally, I want to thank everyone from the bottom of my heart who helped make my dreams come true. Roll Crimson.” — Tommy Joyce
“Being a part of Harvard Lacrosse has been the greatest honor of my life. I’m beyond grateful to my teammates and the coaches for making these four years so special. While it’s hard to see my time in the Harvard jersey come to an end, I know the guys in our locker room will always be family and I can’t wait to see what they can do in the future.” — Nick Loring
“It’s been an honor to play Harvard Lacrosse. I’ve met my best friends in the world while playing the game I love. My recruiting class has faced tons of adversity —  most notably, two seasons being canceled because of Covid[-19] during our time in college, but at the end of the day, we can confidently say that the program moved in the right direction in a meaningful manner during our tenure. I am extremely excited to see what the future holds for Harvard Lacrosse.” — Jack Schlendorf
“Being a member of this team has been one of the most valuable and rewarding experiences of my life. Through the highs and lows of every season, I am eternally grateful for the teammates and coaches that have shaped me into a better person. More than anything, what will sting the most about departing from Harvard and this program is no longer being able to step into the locker room every day with 50 of my best friends and guys that I love. While the end is bittersweet, I know that these friendships I’ve made will last well beyond my time here.” — Chase Strupp
“I really can’t imagine what my time at Harvard would have been like without the lacrosse team. The friends that I made among my teammates, the lifelong connections I’ve discovered with alumni, and the bonds that I’ve formed with all of my coaches have made this a life-altering experience, and I couldn’t be more grateful for that. This is a truly unique group of individuals that Coach Byrne has gathered here and I know they are all going to go do amazing things on and off the field in the future. It has truly been an honor to be a part of this team, even for the short time I got to be here.” — Chase Yager
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
