Sections
The 1997-98 academic year was undoubtedly a year of firsts for LGBTQ+ representation at Harvard.
The year saw the first gay wedding at Memorial Church, Harvard’s first same-sex couple as faculty deans, and the first openly gay member of the University’s second-highest governing body, the Board of Overseers.
It was also one of change for Harvard’s queer advocacy groups, whose organizational structures evolved — sometimes in ways laden with controversy.
Caroline E. Cotter ’98 – a former member of the Bisexual, Gay, Lesbian, Transgender, and Supporters Alliance – said developments in LGBTQ+ advocacy and representation during her time at Harvard were reflective of larger movements across the country.
“There was a lot happening in the outside world that was definitely creating change,” Cotter said. “We have more power when we have a stronger community. So I think that was just being reflected in colleges probably across the country.”
Jennifer T. Tattenbaum ’98, who co-founded a group for queer women on campus as a student, said while 1998 wasn’t a turning point in LGBTQ+ advocacy on campus, her goal was simply to “feel comfortable” while “being open.”
“It was the work that we did back then that has made the world more accepting today, I think,” Tattenbaum said.
“I was living openly and through that, I believe that’s an act of advocacy,” Cotter added.
The BGLTSA – now called Harvard College Queer Students and Allies – faced numerous changes in its leadership and organizational structure in 1997-98.
That year, the organization split into six “daughter” groups: GirlSpot, a forum for women; Quest, a confidential peer group; Cocktail, a forum for men; Spectrum, a group for queer students of color; QUAG, a group dedicated to political action; and the Transgender Task Force.
Tattenbaum, who co-founded GirlSpot, said these new groups emerged from a need for greater inclusivity and representation within BGLTSA.
“There was no women’s community on campus — like lesbian, bisexual, anything — and very few women went to the BGLTSA group because it was really dominated by guys,” she said. “We wanted to just try to make a space where women would know if they went, there would be lots of women there.”
Former co-chair of the BGLTSA Lauralee Summer ’98 similarly recalled a lack of women’s representation. Summer said that this led her and some other board members to host a women’s art exhibit in Adams House in early 1998.
The exhibit received pushback from BGLTSA Vice Chair David A. Campbell ’00. As tensions rose, Campbell was impeached by the body’s board in February 1998.
In March 1998, Campbell wrote an op-ed in The Crimson claiming these new groups were “splintering” BGLTSA, criticizing leadership’s decision to expand the concerns of the organization.
But the formation of the daughter groups ultimately seemed to draw more support and enthusiasm than resistance among queer students. BGLTSA representatives rebuked Campbell’s criticisms in a responding letter and defended its role in facilitating “dialogue between its diverse membership.”
Tattenbaum said the daughter groups ultimately strengthened BGLTSA by providing space for queer students to find peers with similar identities.
“There’s no doubt in my mind that the community became stronger by having subgroups,” she said. “The BGLTSA did a good job acting as an umbrella organization, but I think there are people who would not have been involved at all if they hadn’t found their niche.”
Philosophy professor Warren D. Goldfarb ’69 — one of Harvard’s first openly gay faculty members and the president of the Open Gate, which provides funding for activities benefiting LGBTQ+ students — said fissures in the organization were a “periodic occurrence” because not all students wanted to be represented by the BGLTSA, which was politically active and occasionally described as radical.
“I can’t tell you how many times this happened, but I do know that my organization has funded a number of split-off organizations, which all disappear within two or three years,” Goldfarb said. “They don’t have any staying power because the BGLTSA, it has this long history — it tends to remain.”
Another change to the BGLTSA was the 1997 addition of the “T,” which stands for “transgender.” The request came from the College’s first openly trans student, Alex S. Myers ’00.
“I think people were happy to broaden the identity of the group because it was people that already identified as queer and weren’t included in the actual title of the group,” Summers said.
In the summer of 1997, Memorial Church’s policies changed to permit the officiation of same-sex weddings, five years after longtime Memorial Church Pusey Minister Reverend Peter J. Gomes came out as gay.
Robert L. Parlin ’85 said that prior to the announcement, he and his partner Benjamin “Bren” Bataclan, who were planning on getting married, didn’t know when and where they would do so.
“I immediately went to the church officials and said we’d like to sign up, and it turned out we were the first,” Parlin said. “It was so exciting to do it at my alma mater — a beautiful, beautiful place.”
The ceremony was held on April 18, 1998 — a beautiful day, Parlin recalled. The couple had a large, traditional Catholic ceremony accompanied by musical performances from friends and poetry readings. After the event, they walked into Harvard Yard.
“It happened to be some kind of parents’ weekend,” Parlin said. “They kept coming up to Bren, my husband and I, asking where the bride was.”
Tattenbaum recalled that “people really freaked out” over Parlin and Bataclan’s marriage, backlash that was “dismaying” to see.
“I don’t remember students being bothered by it at all, certainly not the students I knew. It seemed more like community alumni, folks like that who were bothered by it — by the symbolism of it,” she said. “It was reflective of the community and homophobia at large, which was also part of the community and campus life.”
Another significant moment in LGBTQ+ representation at Harvard was the appointment of Diana L. Eck and Dorothy A. Austin as the first same-sex couple to become faculty deans at Lowell House in 1998.
Goldfarb didn’t recall any negative blowback from students, and she remembered their eventual wedding at Memorial Church as “beautiful” and “absolutely packed,” with a parade of people moving to the reception held at Lowell.
According to Goldfarb, former Dean of the College Harry R. Lewis ’68, who appointed the couple, was worried about pushback from alumni but was surprised by the lack of criticism after the announcement.
“He said he got maybe two or three letters from cranky old alumni and that was it,” Goldfarb said.
Cotter, a resident of Lowell House, recalled feeling “really happy” about Eck and Austin’s appointment as faculty deans. She said Lowell at the time “didn’t feel like a queer-friendly space,” so she was “really excited” to see the shift.
The election of Sheila J. Kuehl in 1998 as the first openly gay or lesbian person to the Board of Overseers also increased queer representation on Harvard's campus.
Though Kuehl said she didn’t believe her presence as a queer person changed the body itself, she said her election may have provided affirmation for queer students.
“I think it was important in ways that I didn’t know but always imagine when people talk about role models,” she said.
Kuehl, a 1978 graduate of Harvard Law School, was recruited to run by LGBTQ+ student organizers.
“Students were happy, at least when I first talked to them about running, that I was an attorney and I was a civil rights attorney,” Kuehl said. “That seemed to also go with what they had in mind in the larger picture.”
“It wasn’t just ‘Oh, you’re queer,’ it’s that, ‘Oh, you’re working on queer things,’” Kuehl added.
Tattenbaum said Harvard’s support of queer students amid strides in advocacy and representation seen in 1997-98 “fell short,” but no more than other institutions or the world outside the University.
Harvard, she said, aims toward “teaching students to be part of the dominant culture,” which means it is inevitable that it will fail in “making space for everyone’s unique culture.”
“I still felt like it was a good place to be a gay person. It was kind of like the world at large. It wasn’t like a warm embrace, but it also wasn’t discriminatory — or actively discriminatory — or putting people down or making them feel uncomfortable,” she said. “It didn’t feel like it was contested on campus as to whether you could be openly gay.”
Still, Cotter said political backlash in recent years against trans individuals demands concern.
“We cannot be complacent about the progress we’ve made. So I think it’s great to look at why the progress was being made back in the 90s but also realize the fight isn’t over,” she said.
“These are rights that we cannot just take for granted,” Cotter added.
—Staff writer Joyce E. Kim can be reached at joyce.kim@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Asher J. Montgomery can be reached at asher.montgomery@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @asherjmont.
News
Billionaire Ken Griffin ’89 Breaks with DeSantis on ‘Don’t Say Gay’ Expansion Amid Criticism at GSAS
News
Graduating Harvard Seniors Receive Diplomas at ‘Heartwarming’ House Ceremonies
News
President Bacow Bids Farewell to Harvard, Confers 1,850 College Degrees at 372nd Commencement
News
‘How to Survive the Fall in Three Easy Steps’: Michelle Yeoh Addresses the Harvard Law School Class of 2023
News
As it Happened: Harvard Commencement 2023
Throughout the 1997-98 academic year, student organizers and activists renewed demands for Harvard to establish an ethnic studies concentration — a call that even then was decades-old.
Twenty-five years later, Harvard still does not offer a ethnic studies concentration or house a department for the subject, although there is now an ethnic studies field within the History and Literature concentration and a secondary field in Ethnicity, Migration, Rights.
“We were calling for a curriculum, like a actual concentration where you can really gain expertise in the history and culture literature of a representative minorities in the United States,” Michael Hsu ’98 said.
“We’re trying to make up for for gaps in the curriculum. We’re not just trying to do some anthropology,” Hsu added.
When the Ethnic Studies Action Committee was formed in 1993, it was “a relatively small group,” Mina K. Park ’98 said.
Park said the group was primarily “about filling a huge gap” within the curriculum at the University.
“At the time, even though it was so long ago, it didn’t seem like such a radical thing to ask for,” Park said.
Organizers then shared many of the frustrations current student activists have expressed — namely, a lack of both course options addressing modern ethnic studies and full-time faculty members focused on the topic.
“At the time, we had this incredible African American studies program, and I was very interested in studying Asian American Studies, but there just wasn’t anything really available,” Park said.
Like Park, Nisha S. Agarwal ’00 had wanted to study Modern India during her time at Harvard. While Harvard did offer classes on Sanskrit and ancient Indian history, Agarwal said there weren’t “modern classes.”
“I looked for classes on India, on Gandhi, on really so-called modern questions and classes, and there was nothing,” Agarwal said. “So it was like, this is very odd because it’s a pretty big country and we should expect that there would be some classes on that.”
Agarwal later created the South Asian Studies Initiative in the spring of 1998 to advocate for classes about modern South Asia.
ESAC, SASI, and other ethnicity-based groups including the Academic Affairs Committee and Asian American Association jointly adopted the cause of an ethnic studies department.
Hsu, a former member ESAC and chair of AAC, said ESAC would organize public protests while AAC — an organization within the Harvard Foundation — would meet with deans and faculty members.
“We played good cop and bad cop,” Hsu said of AAC and ESAC.
While organizers said there were many supportive faculty members, “in terms of actually being able to do something or actually pulling whatever levers they could, it was different,” Park said.
Jennifer Ching ’96 recalled “being completely shut down and being dismissed and insulted” by passers-by while protesting outside Harvard’s Science Center. Ching said she believes the push for ethnic studies is related to fighting white supremacy.
“It’s the idea that any call for resources that center the rights, the thoughts, the lived experiences of Black, Indigenous, or people of color — communities generally — is somehow illegitimate,” she said of the response to ESAC’s work.
“I would argue that’s because it is ultimately deeply threatening because a substantial body of that work is looking to interrogate and actually dismantle the infrastructure of white supremacy,” she added.
While ESAC and related groups held many demonstrations, including a demonstration of green wristbands at the 1998 Cultural Rhythms event and yearly demonstrations during Junior Parents Weekend, the group’s main demand was never met.
‘There is such a strategy of just delay in university organizing settings where the administration probably rightly so just thinks ‘we get these people out, the momentum is gone,’” Ching said.
Harvard spokesperson Anna Cowenhoven declined to comment on the University’s response over time.
Ching added that she sensed they were creating “incremental change” through their activism.
In 2009, an Ethnic Studies secondary was established before being renamed in 2012 as Ethnicity, Migration, Rights. The secondary gives students an opportunity to “pursue sustained, interdisciplinary study of ethnicity, migration, indigeneity, and human rights,” focusing on “Asian American, Latinx, and Native American studies.”
The Asian American Studies program in particular within Ethnicity, Migration, Rights was expanded in 2021 after contributions from alumni of over $45 million to endow professorships, fellowships, and fund research in the field.
In addition, History and Literature introduced an ethnic studies track in 2017 that addresses “the roles of diaspora, migration, and colonialism in shaping cultural and social movements.”
Lauren Kaminsky, the director of studies for History and Literature, wrote in a statement that ethnic studies is contained within the History and Literature concentration, which she described as providing students “a way of approaching their studies rather than any particular content area.”
“[I]n the same way that we expect students to be able to study European Studies or the Medieval World in other concentrations, History and Literature should not be the only place where a student can pursue Ethnic Studies,” Kaminsky wrote.
She added that she hopes to see an increase in faculty specializing in Ethnic Studies.
“The key to expanding course offerings in Ethnic Studies is faculty hiring,” she wrote.
Indeed, in 2022, three new professors, History professors Jesse E. Hoffnung-Garskof ’93 and Erika Lee and Government professor Taeku Lee, were hired as part of a cluster hire for ethnic studies.
Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Claudine Gay, who was announced in December as Harvard’s next president, said in a May interview with The Crimson that the next FAS Dean should “build out the cohort” of ethnic studies faculty.
However, many students see these changes as inadequate and there remains broad support for the creation of an ethnic studies concentration.
In December of 2016, the Ethnic Studies Coalition petitioned Harvard to create an ethnic studies concentration and research center, which Kaminsky said partially inspired the History and Literature ethnic studies track.
Again in 2019, there was a surge of protest, including a sit-in at University Hall in support of ethnic studies after Romance Languages and Literatures associate professor Lorgia García Peña was denied tenure.
A Harvard College Open Data Project Report in 2021 also confirmed that a majority of students across different fields of concentration strongly or somewhat supported the creation of an ethnic studies concentration.
This year, the Task Force for Asian American Progressive Advocacy and Studies, Harvard Ethnic Studies Coalition, and the Coalition for a Diverse Harvard hosted the first Ethnic Studies Week, which featured events such as a teach-in and panel discussion.
In an op-ed in The Crimson the week after, Joseph W. Hernandez ’25 said there is a continued need for an ethnic studies concentration.
“As a Government concentrator, I’ve felt this neglect firsthand, as it’s been a struggle to find ethnic studies courses that would count towards my concentration,” Hernandez wrote.
Ching, who came to Harvard 29 years before Hernandez, expressed similar regret at the lack of ethnic studies at Harvard in her time in college.
“To think about how much of a better attorney or advocate or thoughtful practitioner I would have been had I had more meaningful access to the scholarship,” Ching said. “It really saddens me.”
—Staff writer Cam E. Kettles can be reached at cam.kettles@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @cam_kettles.
—Staff writer Jo B. Lemann can be reached at jo.lemann@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @Jo_Lemann.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
On Dec. 3, 1997, Harvard College undergraduates gathered at the polls to vote on the fate of a small but powerful presence of Sunday brunch: grapes.
Following a five-year boycott on table grapes at the College inspired by a national United Farm Workers grape boycott, Harvard Dining Services announced at the end of October 1997 that grapes would be reintroduced to Sunday brunch.
Shortly after their initial announcement, Harvard Dining Services was met with pushback from the student body, particularly from Harvard-Radcliffe RAZA — a Mexican and Latinx affinity group — and the Progressive Student Labor Movement.
Sergio J. Campos ’00, a leader of RAZA, said the motivation behind RAZA’s involvement was rooted in an “affinity” for many of the farmers and migrant workers from Latin America.
“We sort of felt that it was important for many of us to bring awareness to the conditions of the workers at the time, and we were worried about the symbolism of Harvard going against the boycott,” Campos said.
Due to student pushback, Dining Services decided on Nov. 7, 1997 to postpone serving grapes in the dining hall until there was a College-wide referendum to decide the issue.
The campus, Crimson coverage, and the Undergraduate Council then became consumed in what became known as the “Great Grape Debate” on whether the College should continue its boycott of table grapes in support of the UFW or bring grapes back to its menu.
“Nothing like this has ever come up,” then-Dining Services project manager Alexandra E. McNitt told The Crimson in December 1997.
Leading the pro-grape camp, which pushed for the reintroduction of grapes, was Adam R. Kovacevich ’99. Kovacevich, who launched the Grape Coalition, was motivated by his family’s connection to the grape industry and sparked the movement to bring back grapes in order to open up the conversation.
“I had seen these kinds of debates play out before, but where there hadn’t really been a debate,” Kovacevich said. “I was interested in having more of a balanced debate on that question of whether grapes should return to the dining halls.”
“I had personal experience with it. My dad is a grape grower in California and I grew up around agricultural industry, and so that was a big driver for me,” he added.
The Crimson Editorial Board at the time took the stance in support of continuing the UFW grape boycott in support of the grape workers.
Adam J. Levitan ’98 dissented from this opinion.
In his dissent from the Editorial Board, Levitan called to keep politics out of the dining hall, writing that “Harvard students should not have politics imposed on their palettes.” Instead, Levitan suggested “stricter government enforcement of existing labor and pesticide regulations.”
Within the Undergraduate Council, the grape boycott became a part of a larger moral debate about what role the UC would play on campus.
Adam S. Vaina ’98, a UC member, described the grape debate in the UC as a debate between two types of activism: activism focused on “actual changes in student life on campus” versus activism “standing up for a certain global or national political issue.”
“It seemed like a bit of, I would say, not very democratic approach,” Vaina said of the boycott. “I don’t think the minority should impose on the majority a consumer boycott.”
Then-freshman Todd E. Plants ’01 believed the UC’s activism could be more outwardly focused. Plants sponsored a resolution in 1997 for the UC to endorse a “No” vote on the Dining Services referendum, in support of continuing the UFW boycott.
“Obviously, being at Harvard, you get attention that may or may not be earned,” Plants said. “But, you could make an action, send a signal on to the world, take a stance on something you believed in that you felt like represented the students, to try to use your influence to achieve positive change.”
Leading up to the referendum, both sides went head to head in campus organizing – hanging up posters, laying out cards on the tables, debating in the Harvard Political Union, and even handing out grapes on campus.
“I remember I contacted the trade association that represented the California grape industry and they arranged to have 15 boxes of grapes shipped to my dorm room in Quincy,” Kovacevich said.
“And so one morning a produce truck arrives at Quincy and then unloads, and these massive boxes, so just distributing all those grapes on campus was a massive undertaking, and I don’t even remember how I did it,” he added.
Ultimately, the referendum came out in favor of bringing table grapes back to dining halls at the College.
In November 2000 — three years after the College's decision to bring back table grapes to the dining halls — the UFW announced the end of its third grape boycott.
“So I think actually our students choosing to end grape boycott was a domino that knocked it over nationally too,” Kovacevich said.
Even though he was disappointed in the outcome, Campos looks back on the debate fondly.
“I used to be very frustrated about the outcome, but as I’ve gotten older and reflected on it, I’m actually quite proud that a very diverse coalition sort of came out of the blue to really address this issue,” Campos said.
Those involved with organizing around the grape debate on both sides found the experience to be meaningful and a source of inspiration for the work they do today.
“I became an entrepreneur and in general, maybe, this experience helped the feeling that if you actually take matters into your own hands, you can actually get things done. So, for me, that was a positive experience,” Vaina said.
Campos, who is now a professor of law at the University of Miami School of Law and was a visiting professor at Harvard Law School in fall 2022, had similar feelings as Vaina.
“It definitely had a gigantic influence on me and the career I ended up having,” Campos said.
“I came into college as a pre-med student and basically I went to law school, I became a law professor, and I became sort of more concerned with the practical aspect of policy trying to make sure that good things happen,” he added.
Daniel R. Morgan ’99, a member of the PSLM, remembers the grape debate’s legacy as part of a resurgence of progressive activism on campus that helped build coalitions across student groups.
“It was also an occasion for a range of new coalitions to emerge among progressive activists,” Morgan said, describing partnerships between RAZA, PSLM, migration activists, and environmentalists.
“It was in the long haul, I think, part of a broader resurgence of campus activism that was taking place across the mid-to-late 1990s and was very much a contribution to that kind of surge,” he added.
—Staff writer Sabrina R. Hu can be reached at sabrina.hu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @sxbrinahhu.
—Staff writer Sami E. Turner can be reached at sami.turner@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @samiturner_.
News
Billionaire Ken Griffin ’89 Breaks with DeSantis on ‘Don’t Say Gay’ Expansion Amid Criticism at GSAS
News
Graduating Harvard Seniors Receive Diplomas at ‘Heartwarming’ House Ceremonies
News
President Bacow Bids Farewell to Harvard, Confers 1,850 College Degrees at 372nd Commencement
News
‘How to Survive the Fall in Three Easy Steps’: Michelle Yeoh Addresses the Harvard Law School Class of 2023
News
As it Happened: Harvard Commencement 2023
On Jan. 22, 1973, the Supreme Court issued its landmark decision in Roe v. Wade, guaranteeing the right to an abortion nationwide and reversing all state laws — including in Massachusetts — that completely banned the procedure.
The decision was both a watershed moment for women’s rights and a catalyst for the conservative legal movement, which scored a major victory last summer when the Supreme Court overturned Roe v. Wade by a 5-4 vote in its decision in Dobbs v. Jackson — rolling back a constitutional right that had been guaranteed for almost 50 years.
Though the decision did not stand on its 50th anniversary, graduates of the Class of 1973 — the first class to embark on their careers in the context of legalized abortion — said Roe v. Wade was met with relief and celebration on Harvard’s campus.
“We understood it changed our lives in terms of our possibility of making choices,” Andrea Kirsh ’73 said.
“When the decision came down, I just felt relief,” said Stephanie L. Rich ’73, who studied Biology at Radcliffe before attending Harvard Law School. “I said, thank goodness that’s over.”
Alumni said support for abortion was widespread at Harvard around the time of Roe. None of the six graduates of the Class of 1973 interviewed by The Crimson recalled campus demonstrations held by opponents of abortion.
“I don’t know anybody that was against it,” Lee Browning Allen ’73 said of abortion.
Harvard Law School graduate Daniel L. Feldman said support for legal abortion was “overwhelming” at the school.
Despite widespread support for abortion access, alumni said the decision in Roe did not jolt Harvard’s campus.
“It’s not something I ‘debated’ with my friends, including those involved in the women’s movement — it was more like a celebration,” Therese F. Steiner ’73 said.
Some alumni said other hot button political issues at the time, including the Vietnam War and the Watergate scandal, overshadowed discussion of Roe v. Wade and abortion rights at the College.
“The decision was not an explosion on campus,” Allen said. “There were too many other things going on, I think.”
Steiner also said topics that typically weigh heavily on the minds of seniors — such as post-college plans and writing a senior thesis — were “more of a focus” in the months following Roe v. Wade.
When Roe was decided, abortion became legal in Massachusetts for the first time. But for three years prior to the decision, students had been able to travel to New York, which legalized the procedure in 1970, to obtain healthcare.
Because New York had already decriminalized abortion, the possibility of legal abortion in the country “was not a giant shock” to Harvard students, according to Feldman.
“It wasn’t earth-shattering that the court would say people should have this right,” Feldman said.
Kirsh said that for those who had gotten pregnant and were seeking an abortion, New York was the obvious option due to its proximity to Massachusetts.
“That’s where one went if one needed an abortion,” Kirsh said. “And how that information circulated I can’t even tell you.”
“It was just sort of the known thing,” she added.
Alumni said Harvard University Health Services also provided birth control and emergency contraceptives, which were legalized for unmarried women in Massachusetts in 1972, at the time of the decision.
Linda Corman ’73 said after the legalization of birth control in Massachusetts, students could obtain emergency contraception from HUHS with “pretty much no questions asked.”
Steiner said there was greater access to birth control pills around her freshman year.
“There was more discussion about that,” Steiner said.
Kirsh said her generation was one of the earliest to have contraception “readily available.”
“We expected it to work,” she added. “But we also realized it didn’t work perfectly.”
Today, an abortion in Massachusetts may be performed until the 24th week of pregnancy, with an exception for cases involving “physical or mental health” or “fetal anomalies.”
In December 2020, the Massachusetts State Senate and House of Representatives passed the ROE Act, codifying abortion access into state law and lowering the age at which an individual can obtain an abortion without parental consent from 18 to 16.
Nationwide, however, the legal status of abortion following Roe’s overturning has shifted dramatically. Since the Dobbs decision last June, 14 states have enacted bans on most abortions, and lengthy legal battles regarding abortion are playing out in many more.
For some alumni, the overturning of Roe marked a painful setback for movements they had participated in while attending college.
“We really marched for very important things when we were in college — for us, it was the women’s movement, anti-war,” Steiner said. “We were thinking we were going to make real progress and make a real difference on a lot of things.”
“And what’s happening now is, like, how much have we really made?” Steiner added. “We can’t believe that everything we marched for and fought for in our own ways and believed in, and gave those values to our kids, is just being turned around.”
—Staff writer Michelle N. Amponsah can be reached at michelle.amponsah@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @mnamponsah.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Billionaire Ken Griffin ’89 Breaks with DeSantis on ‘Don’t Say Gay’ Expansion Amid Criticism at GSAS
News
Graduating Harvard Seniors Receive Diplomas at ‘Heartwarming’ House Ceremonies
News
President Bacow Bids Farewell to Harvard, Confers 1,850 College Degrees at 372nd Commencement
News
‘How to Survive the Fall in Three Easy Steps’: Michelle Yeoh Addresses the Harvard Law School Class of 2023
News
As it Happened: Harvard Commencement 2023
Today, having a class in the Science Center is a staple of the Harvard College experience. But when the Class of 1973 arrived at Harvard, construction had not even begun on what is now an iconic feature of the University.
The sprawling building, which lies just outside the north gates of Harvard Yard, is home to facilities used by eight academic departments at the University.
First recommended in the 1950s by a faculty committee organized by then-Faculty of Arts and Sciences Dean McGeorge Bundy, the project was finally adopted in 1968 after Polaroid Corporation co-founder Edwin H. Land, who attended Harvard for one year but did not complete his degree, donated $12.5 million dollars for its construction. The building was designed by Josep Lluís Sert, then-dean of the Harvard Graduate School of Design, and opened in 1973.
The Science Center was built on the former site of Lawrence Hall, a Harvard building dating back to 1847. In 1970, after Harvard designated Lawrence Hall for demolition to make room for the Science Center, a group of graduate students occupied Lawrence Hall as part of a movement they dubbed the Free University.
The Free University’s goal was to provide Cantabrigians with an alternative, more progressive education. As David Holmstrom — a former Social Studies and Government tutor who had the building’s sole key at the time — told The Crimson in 2019, the Free University “just wanted the building.”
But on May 8, 1970, Lawrence Hall burned down in a fire at 4 a.m., marking the end of the Free University and paving the way for Harvard’s Science Center plans.
After construction broke ground on the Science Center, the building was initially unpopular among many faculty members and students. Some common criticisms of the project included protests from members of the Biology department regarding moving undergraduate instruction away from the department’s main quarters and the building’s design itself.
“We wouldn’t know how to give [Nat Sci 5] three blocks away,” said former Harvard Biology professor George Wald to The Crimson at the time. “The undergraduates would be getting a hell of a lot poorer instruction than now.”
According to Peter Shapiro ’74, many student criticisms of the building stemmed from a dislike of the brutalist style the building was designed in — the same technique used for the also-controversial Boston City Hall, completed in 1968.
“There was tremendous amount of sentiment thinking that the building was ugly and didn’t fit in,” Shapiro, a former Crimson managing editor, said in an interview. “It was the case that, in general, all modern architecture was thought of as not fitting in and the Science Center was particularly large and looming and brutalist in its style.”
Proponents of the Science Center contended that creating a central hub for undergraduate science instruction would improve the experience of Harvard College’s science students.
After its initial construction, the building has undergone several renovations, including an expansion that took place in 2002.
“There were a number of departments that were growing rapidly. History of Science, computational science, and Statistics were all growing very rapidly and needed more space,” said Andrea Leers, lead architect of the building’s 2002 expansion. “At that point, we were asked to look at how much new space could be captured in vertical additions almost independently of what they needed — they were looking for as much space as possible to enlarge.”
The project’s architects tried to “enter into the mindset of that building” to preserve its distinctive look and feel while ensuring it “wasn’t going to be more of the same,” she said.
Leers said she has been asked to work on the building in projects after the 2002 expansion, including renovating the second floor of the Cabot Science Library and “some laboratory renovations on the first and second floors,” adding that the building has the capacity to adapt over time.
“The building has got good bones — it’s a great framework. It is capable of change and evolution and I think it has a long life ahead of it,” she said.
—Staff writer Neil H. Shah can be reached at neil.shah@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @neilhshah15.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Billionaire Ken Griffin ’89 Breaks with DeSantis on ‘Don’t Say Gay’ Expansion Amid Criticism at GSAS
News
Graduating Harvard Seniors Receive Diplomas at ‘Heartwarming’ House Ceremonies
News
President Bacow Bids Farewell to Harvard, Confers 1,850 College Degrees at 372nd Commencement
News
‘How to Survive the Fall in Three Easy Steps’: Michelle Yeoh Addresses the Harvard Law School Class of 2023
News
As it Happened: Harvard Commencement 2023
Leading the crowd of reporters in the White House briefing room, Kristen Welker ’98 sat in the front row, poised to ask about the ongoing fight over the debt limit and budget deal.
Unlike most of her fellow graduates from the Class of 1998, Welker spent the day before her class’ 25th reunion at the heart of the Biden administration.
Welker, NBC News’ chief White House correspondent and co-anchor of Weekend Today, is a broadcast journalist currently leading NBC’s coverage of President Joe Biden’s administration. Previously, she has also traveled around the world with former President Barack Obama and First Lady Michelle Obama and reported on former President Donald Trump’s administration.
In her line of work, Welker is no stranger to asking tough questions to powerful individuals.
Following Trump’s impeachment in 2021, Welker turned to him in the Oval Office and asked what it felt like to be the third president in U.S. history to face such a sanction.
But Welker said those daunting moments were made easier by knowing that she was “prepared for the task at hand.”
“If you are prepared, you know that you have the facts on your side,” she said. “Part of covering the White House — or any beat — is coming in every day and knowing that you have done your homework.”
To Welker, her job comes with the imperative that she is ready to ask sharp questions and seek out answers.
“That is the role of a journalist: to really serve on behalf of the American people,” Welker said. “For the people who cannot be in the briefing room, who cannot be at the White House every day but who have important questions and important issues that they want addressed.”
Over the years, Welker has won national acclaim for her work as a broadcast journalist.
In 2011, she was nominated for an Emmy Award for her role in NBC’s midterm election reporting. Four years later, Welker won an Emmy, this time for her part in the network’s coverage of Malaysia Airlines Flight 17.
But Welker’s road to the White House started early, and her love for political journalism set in during high school.
“I just got the bug,” she said. “My parents were involved in politics, and I got a very early front row seat to the role that journalists and journalism can have in our democracy.”
Arriving at Harvard her freshman year, Welker joined The Harvard Crimson — the University’s independent student newspaper — and got her first taste of college journalism.
One particular story, covering a fire that had torn through two Cambridge Street apartment buildings, left a lasting impression.
“I’ll never forget,” Welker said. “I went to downtown Boston, I was wearing nothing but a sweater — and I think it was freezing out — taking notes in a notepad.”
“It was incredibly invigorating to be there,” she added. “I felt an immense sense of responsibility, and I think that really solidified my desire to be a journalist.”
Welker, who concentrated in History, also wrote for the Harvard Independent. She said her work for both papers planted the “seeds of my skills as a journalist.”
“I remember sitting by my phone waiting for an interview subject to call me back, going in late at night to come up with headlines for the Independent, to bounce ideas around, to be in editing sessions,” Welker said.
Her time with college reporting taught her the “responsibility that journalists have to the community,” Welker said.
“You realize that these stories matter to people,” she said. “You’re covering people’s lives. You’re covering events that are impacting their homes, their neighborhood, and just being a witness to history.”
Despite the long hours she spent — and continues to spend — on journalism, Welker embraces the “awesome responsibility” of being a journalist and “writing the first draft of history.”
“When you are passionate about something, it doesn’t often fit neatly into a nine-to-five schedule,” she said. “You have to work a little bit harder.”
—Staff writer Claire Yuan can be reached at claire.yuan@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @claireyuan33.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
As freshmen stepped onto Harvard’s campus in the fall of 1969, they were surrounded by political tension: the preceding year had witnessed the assassinations of Martin Luther King Jr. and Robert F. Kennedy ’48. And after President Lyndon B. Johnson chose not to seek reelection, Richard Nixon assumed his position, inheriting responsibility for a war that seemed senseless to many.
In opposition to the Vietnam War, student protests and demonstrations erupted across the country. In the spring of 1969, protestors occupied University Hall, condemning the war and demanding Harvard shut down the Reserve Officers Training Corps program. Hundreds were arrested following the demonstration.
“We showed up, and it was just sort of like this political revolution that was happening,” recalled Thomas J. Schneider ’73.
In interviews with The Crimson, members of the Class of 1973 reflected on the tumultuous political atmosphere of the era and its impact on the trajectory of their lives half a century later.
For many alumni who spoke to The Crimson about their recollections, the riot that occurred in Harvard Square on April 15, 1970 stood out as a crystallization of the political strife of the era. That day, thousands of demonstrators marched from Boston Common to Harvard Square, where some protesters began setting fires and throwing bricks and rocks into nearby windows.
In an email, Robert W. Shoemaker III ’73 remembered watching the riot from his “front row seat” in Lionel Hall, describing the scene as a “bad movie.”
“It was the only time in my life that I ever experienced tear gas, which seeped in through the windows even when we closed them,” Shoemaker wrote.
Evan W. Thomas III ’73, a former Crimson editor who later authored a biography of Nixon, said he was standing on Massachusetts Avenue across from Widener Library when he was startled by a protester throwing a rock, which shattered a pane of glass in a bank nearby.
His first instinct was to pull out a notebook and start reporting.
“My memory is running around in the streets, going to The Crimson to sort of figure out, how do you help yourself with tear gas? We would put damp clothes over our mouths,” Thomas said. “We were just going around watching it, watching the cops chase the kids, being chased ourselves.”
“It was kind of weirdly fun and dramatic, and also awful at the same time,” he said. “Thrilling, and kind of scary all at once.”
Thomas A. Mesereau Jr. ’73 recalled one particular protest that resembled a scene from a science-fiction movie.
“I threw water on my face, got dressed, went outside. And I felt like I landed on another planet,” he said. “On one side were all these students — protesters. In front of them were a number of trash cans on fire. And on the other side, facing them, were police officers from different cities around Boston, so they all had slightly different uniforms on.”
“All of a sudden, all hell broke loose. Tear gas started flying in Harvard Square and over the wall to Harvard Yard,” Mesereau continued. “Students were coming out well-dressed and they thought they'd landed on the moon.”
On April 30, 1970, Nixon shocked the world with his announcement that the U.S. would invade Cambodia. In response, more than four million students staged walkouts across the nation, with one such protest taking place at Kent State University. This demonstration spiraled into chaos when the National Guard opened fire, killing four students and injuring 11, sparking outrage and further fueling the nationwide movement.
In the aftermath of Kent State, Harvard students joined the nationwide student strike, while faculty stood in solidarity by administering optional final exams and offering classes on a pass-fail basis. The semester was effectively over.
Nixon’s landslide reelection in 1972 over then-Senator George McGovern came as a bitter defeat on campus, some alumni said.
“We, of course, all despised Nixon,” Ronald A. Dieckmann ’73 said. “He was the perpetrator of the war in our eyes, at that time.”
Thomas, who covered Nixon’s victory as a Crimson reporter, said some students were almost “snobbish” in their distaste for the incumbent president.
“People were kind of reflexively critical of Nixon as a bad guy,” Thomas said.
Still, he noted, Nixon also used Harvard as a political punching bag during his campaign, playing into the trope of the “Kremlin on the Charles.” He recounted an anecdote from his book, “Being Nixon: A Man Divided” where Nixon learned then-Harvard president Derek C. Bok was in the White House and demanded he be removed from the premises.
At this point, though early reports about the Watergate break-in were becoming publicized, it had not yet evolved into a full-blown scandal that implicated Nixon personally. It would not be until the summer 1973 Senate hearings into the break-in — following graduation — that the scandal would balloon into the defining, career-ending event of Nixon’s presidency.
Thomas said he felt students were subject to a degree of political exhaustion and were “barely aware” of the early reports of the Watergate break-in.
“The early days of Watergate, the country, even the college kids weren’t paying attention,” he said. “We, Harvard students, were already mostly against Nixon.”
Schneider said Nixon’s victory contributed to some students’ partial withdrawal from politics.
“It deflated the balloon,” Schneider said. “People at that point in time, you could stay politically active and things of that sort, but you really had to be focusing on, what am I going to do with my own life?”
Many alumni said the possibility of being drafted weighed over male students throughout their time at Harvard and influenced their activism.
“We were actually now designated as potential future soldiers in a war that none of us believed in,” Dieckmann said. “Every one of us remembers what our draft number was today.”
In January 1973 — just months before graduation — Nixon passed an executive order ending the draft that would have otherwise expired in summer.
Thomas said the political fervor that had peaked in 1970 had, to an extent, worn away by then.
“That took the pressure off,” he said. “It was the draft that really, really fomented students’ dissent and upset and anger. It was the fear of being sent off to Vietnam to get killed that had a lot of Harvard students riled up.”
Marion Dry ’73 said the ending of the draft was a “great relief.”
“So many guys were about to graduate and there was this sense that there was a future,” she said.
For Roger B. Myerson ’73, a 2007 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences laureate, the emerging fear of nuclear war in the 1950s first sparked his interest in economics. His tumultuous college years solidified the decision to contribute to the frameworks of game theory.
“We were studying, like every generation, but we felt terribly conflicted about what our country was doing. And in some ways, I’m an example of somebody who has devoted his life to trying to understand social, political theory better in order to maybe avoid such mistakes in the future,” Myerson said, in reference to the Vietnam war.
Dry said the ethic of social activism that defined their college experience influenced her and some classmates to found ClassACT HR73, an organization of hundreds of alumni from the Class of 1973 that works to promote social change.
“All of the turmoil that we experienced, not just the Vietnam War, marked our psyches,” she said. “And as a result, when we got to a certain age, we decided we were going to do something that would take us back to working together in a way that was not dissimilar to the sense of, ‘we’re in this together,’ back when we were in college.”
Dieckmann said his college experience influenced his decision to found a nonprofit working to alleviate health care inequities in low-income countries including Vietnam.
“Vietnam didn’t have a choice in this. We invaded them,” he said. “And it was so unfair to me that I feel in some ways like I’ve almost spent my entire life trying to right that wrong.”
Correction: June 3, 2023
A previous version of this article incorrectly stated that the riot in Harvard Square took place on March 15, 1970. In fact, the riot took place on April 15.
—Staff writer Elias J. Schisgall can be reached at elias.schisgall@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @eschisgall.
—Staff writer Jennifer Y. Song can be reached at jennifer.song@thecrimson.com.
News
Billionaire Ken Griffin ’89 Breaks with DeSantis on ‘Don’t Say Gay’ Expansion Amid Criticism at GSAS
News
Graduating Harvard Seniors Receive Diplomas at ‘Heartwarming’ House Ceremonies
News
President Bacow Bids Farewell to Harvard, Confers 1,850 College Degrees at 372nd Commencement
News
‘How to Survive the Fall in Three Easy Steps’: Michelle Yeoh Addresses the Harvard Law School Class of 2023
News
As it Happened: Harvard Commencement 2023
Hundreds of Harvard affiliates crowded Sanders Theatre on the morning of Nov. 1, 1997, for the historic visit of Chinese President Jiang Zemin.
It was the first time Harvard welcomed a president from China, and seats in Sanders Theatre for Jiang’s speech were in such high demand that a lottery was run in order to distribute the tickets.
Since China had previously been “resistant to such high-level interactions,” Kathrine A. Meyers ’98, then editor-in-chief of the Harvard Asia Pacific Review, said in 1997 that the visit needed “to be seized as an opportunity to advance relations, rather than to stifle them.”
The lottery to hear Jiang speak closed with more than 1,000 ticket requests.
As a Ph.D. student at Harvard at the time, Victor C. Shih, now a professor of political economy and an expert on China at the University of California, San Diego, recalled in an interview how he excitedly watched Jiang’s motorcade arrive in Cambridge for the 1997 visit.
While many Harvard affiliates, like Shih, looked forward to Jiang’s presence on campus, others objected — including student members of the Taiwanese Cultural Society. Countering outcry from human rights advocates, Jiang asserted in interviews before the event with TIME Magazine and the Washington Post that his country now touted more human rights than ever before.
Philip J. Cunningham, a 1998 Nieman Fellow at Harvard whose previous decade of reporting in Asia included covering the protests and crackdown of Tiananmen Square, said in an interview that while reporting in China he “saw things that were extremely terrible and unfair and cruel” — things that “the government did.”
“I was angry about it,” Cunningham added. “As an ordinary human being, I was outraged at some of the things that China was doing to its own people.”
Addressing his American audience through a translator, Jiang highlighted China’s scientific, cultural, and economic progress and argued for a more robust alliance with the United States. But his remarks were not immune from protest.
Immediately following his speech, a man shouted “human rights” from the upper balcony. Four others joined him, and the five turned their backs to Jiang, showing “Free Tibet” in black letters. Cunningham stood up and repeatedly shouted, “What about Wei Jingsheng?” referring to China’s longest-serving political prisoner at the time — whom Cunningham interviewed.
Shih, however, said he did not remember a lot of protests surrounding Jiang’s visit.
“Today, if the same thing were to come, you can imagine a lot of people lining the streets, welcoming him, et cetera — as well as a lot of protesters,” he said. “At that time, I don’t remember seeing either.”
Cunningham said he was “probably an outlier” at Harvard when it came to his passion for human rights issues in China.
According to Shih, Jiang’s visit in 1997 did not hold the same significance that a trip by current Chinese President Xi Jinping would hold today. China was a rising middle-income country at the time, Shih said, not the global superpower that it has become today.
“For those of us who studied China, it was a cool event,” Shih said. “But I think the rest of campus just did not pay that much attention to it.”
“It would be kind of similar today like if the president of Mexico were to visit,” he added. “There would be certainly a lot of students who would be interested, but most of Harvard may just go on with its life.”
But the full significance of Jiang’s visit would not become clear until decades later.
During his speech in Sanders Theatre, Jiang invited Harvard President Neil L. Rudenstine to visit China.
Just a few months later, in March 1998, Rudenstine took Jiang up on his offer, becoming the first sitting Harvard president to visit mainland China. Over the years since, it has become commonplace for Harvard presidents to visit China and meet with the country’s top leaders.
Lawrence H. Summers, Rudenstine’s successor, visited China and met with Jiang during his first year in office. Drew G. Faust also visited Beijing in 2015 and met Xi, who had become China’s president by the time.
Outgoing Harvard President Lawrence S. Bacow continued the presidential tradition of visiting China and meeting with Xi during just his second international trip as president.
It is unclear, however, if incoming University President Claudine Gay intends to follow the example of her predecessor by visiting China early in her tenure, as U.S.-China relations have further deteriorated since Bacow’s visit to Beijing.
Just months after Bacow returned from meeting with Xi, the Department of Justice arrested and charged former Harvard professor Charles M. Lieber under its controversial China Initiative.
The China Initiative faced intense criticism for allegedly targeting individuals of Chinese descent and not fulfilling its initial objectives as an anti-espionage crackdown.
In prescient remarks during his keynote speech at Peking University in 2019, Bacow called on academics to continue international scholarly collaboration despite the political differences that their countries may have.
“I believe that sustaining the bonds that join scholars across borders is of the utmost importance for all of us gathered here today — and for anyone who cares about the unique role that higher education plays in the lives of countless people,” Bacow said in his speech.
However, it will now be Gay who will have the opportunity to signal whether the scholarly bonds between the U.S. and China will succeed in withstanding the increasingly fraught political tensions between the two nations.
—Staff writer Ryan H. Doan-Nguyen can be reached at ryan.doannguyen@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @ryandoannguyen.
—Staff writer Miles J. Herszenhorn can be reached at miles.herszenhorn@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @mherszenhorn.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Billionaire Ken Griffin ’89 Breaks with DeSantis on ‘Don’t Say Gay’ Expansion Amid Criticism at GSAS
News
Graduating Harvard Seniors Receive Diplomas at ‘Heartwarming’ House Ceremonies
News
President Bacow Bids Farewell to Harvard, Confers 1,850 College Degrees at 372nd Commencement
News
‘How to Survive the Fall in Three Easy Steps’: Michelle Yeoh Addresses the Harvard Law School Class of 2023
News
As it Happened: Harvard Commencement 2023
Before Benazir Bhutto ’73 broke the “glass ceiling” as the first democratically elected woman of a Muslim nation, she was a shy girl from Eliot House known to all as “Pinkie.”
“It probably wasn't until [her] Commencement Day that I knew her name was Benazir,” said then-Eliot House Faculty Dean Alan E. Heimert ’49.
Bhutto would go on to become a household name in international politics, serving as the Prime Minister of Pakistan twice and crediting Harvard as “the very basis of my belief in democracy,” according to a 1998 Crimson interview.
But in 1969, Bhutto arrived in Harvard Yard as a 16-year-old “normal undergraduate,” grabbing sweatshirts from the Coop, feeling homesick, and attending basketball and hockey games.
The former Eliot House resident, who originally lived in Cabot House, was an aspiring Psychology concentrator who had no intent to concentrate in politics or government. But Bhutto’s passion for Pakistan, where her father was Prime Minister, grew during her time at the College and she became “a great messenger for the country,” according to professor emerita Annemarie Schimmel.
After shifting to a concentration in Government, Bhutto wrote a thesis on the origins of Pakistan and graduated cum laude, said her friend Anne Fadiman ’74.
“Something got galvanized in her while she was at Harvard,” she said. “The longer she spent away, the stronger her focus on Pakistan became.”
Bhutto’s housemates recall her being “very pro-Pakistan,” and having “great political skill,” never hesitating to confront those who criticized her father’s actions during Pakistan’s civil war.
“She had very strong opinions — what she reminded me of at the time was Julie Nixon, who defended her father in the midst of Watergate,” said her roommate Yolanda K. Kodrzycki ’74.
Two of Bhutto’s longtime friends — former U.S. Ambassador to Croatia Peter W. Galbraith ’73 and Seattle lawyer Bruce E.H. Johnson ’72 — remember her growing role in Pakistani politics.
During breaks, Bhutto traveled with her father to the United Nations to debate Pakistan’s civil war before the Security Council and accompanied the late Prime Minister on official state trips to India and China, meeting Indian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi and Chairman of the People’s Republic of China Mao Zedong, according to Johnson.
“Her father regarded Benazir as his natural successor all along,” Galbraith said. “She was a very sophisticated and intelligent undergraduate, and she has always shown great political skill."
All those who crossed paths with Bhutto recalled her deep interest in Pakistan’s political landscape and saw her as a rising political “star even back then,” said Oxford classmate Nicholas T. Mitropoulos. But her close friends’ fondest memories were of her as Pinkie, a “great cake baker,” rather than as the daughter of Pakistan’s ruling elite.
“If any of our friends had a birthday she was there, having baked the cake,” Johnson said. “We would be in the small dining room just off the main dining at Eliot House.”
“I can remember her playing a lot of Carly Simon,” Henderson said.
After her time at Harvard, Bhutto’s political career began, but her path to becoming prime minister at 35 was plagued with obstacles. Upon her return to Pakistan, the military seized control, imprisoning and killing her father and arresting Bhutto multiple times, leading her to flee the country.
When free elections returned in 1988 following the sudden death of president Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq, she emerged victorious through a campaign focused on restoring democracy and human rights, all while pregnant.
“She is a woman who took enormous risks — she could have led a very leisurely life or followed a very pedestrian career,” said Mahnaz Z. Ispahani, a former fellow at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. “Instead she chose a very difficult path, in a very difficult time, in a very difficult country.”
During her second term as prime minister, Bhutto was dismissed on charges of corruption and self-exiled from Pakistan. In 2007, she returned to the country in an attempt to win a third term as prime minister but was assassinated, spurring riots and political unrest across Pakistan.
“Benazir was certainly not a perfect political leader, but she sure was a brave one,” Fadiman said.
Fifty years after her graduation from Harvard, and 16 years following her death, her longtime friend Johnson still hopes Bhutto will one day be recognized by Eliot House for her achievements.
“I don’t know what kind of portraits that are on the walls of Eliot House these days. But if they are adding people of color, they ought to add Pinkie,” Johnson said.
—Staff writer Thomas J. Mete can be reached at thomas.mete@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @thomasjmete.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Billionaire Ken Griffin ’89 Breaks with DeSantis on ‘Don’t Say Gay’ Expansion Amid Criticism at GSAS
News
Graduating Harvard Seniors Receive Diplomas at ‘Heartwarming’ House Ceremonies
News
President Bacow Bids Farewell to Harvard, Confers 1,850 College Degrees at 372nd Commencement
News
‘How to Survive the Fall in Three Easy Steps’: Michelle Yeoh Addresses the Harvard Law School Class of 2023
News
As it Happened: Harvard Commencement 2023
For Harvard students today, technology is virtually unavoidable. Students select courses, turn in assignments, and even attend classes through various online platforms. The Harvard School of Public Health and Harvard Graduate School of Design have gone as far as to explicitly require students to have computers.
But it hasn’t always been this way. In a 2017 interview with The Crimson, Computer Science concentrators C. Eric Rosenblum ’92 and N. Edwin Aoki ’92 both said they did not use the internet during their time at Harvard. Then, in 2017, Mark W. Jacobstein ’92 offered a possible explanation: the internet did not seem useful to students.
“In 1992, not everyone even had a computer,” Jacobstein said. “I don’t know that we would have known what to do with a network… Your friends didn’t have email addresses at other colleges, it just wasn’t part of the milieu.”
The status quo changed in 1995 when a faculty committee called on all staff and faculty members to obtain personal computers and internet access by the summer of 1996. The College then implemented online grade access in the fall of 1997.
Since then, the internet has played an instrumental role in shaping the student experiences and future careers of Harvard undergraduates.
In 2014, the College announced that it would adopt Canvas, a web-based learning platform, for all of its classes by the 2016-17 academic year. In a 2014 interview, Kristin Sullivan, senior director of educational technology and public leadership at the Harvard Kennedy School, said that the University was one of the early adopters of Canvas.
“We have been able to contribute to the platform,” Sullivan wrote in an email to The Crimson at the time, noting that Harvard has piloted Canvas since the fall semester and recently decided it will universalize the system. “We are participating in their open-source community and have built custom tools supported by the platform.”
Canvas allows students to submit assignments, receive grades and feedback on their work, and contact teaching fellows and course assistants in the same place.
Some professors have even opted to allow students to enroll in their courses without ever attending a lecture — at least in person.
In spring 2023, four Computer Science courses, four Economics courses, a Government course, a Neuroscience course, and a Statistics course allowed students to enroll in another course taking place at the same time without additional permission. Students enrolled in such courses were expected to watch recordings of the lectures posted on the courses’ Canvas pages.
In the fall of 2022, Statistics 110: “Introduction to Probability” garnered 788 students — making it the most-enrolled course at Harvard — and allowed students to simultaneously enroll without petitioning the Administrative Board.
In addition to altering the lives of Harvard undergraduates, the internet opened the door for a new generation of Harvard students through the Harvard Extension School. In 1997, Harvard created the Distance Education Program to aid adults seeking to continue their education. The Extension School, which has served students ages 18 to 89, awards more than 8,000 degrees and 1,000 certificates each year.
For some students, the infusion of the internet into Harvard’s student life altered their career paths.
In 1997, Harvard undergraduates Wellie W. Chao ’98, Seth P. Sternglanz ’98, and Phuc V. Truong ’98 unveiled an online job recruitment website they had developed for Harvard’s Office of Career Services.
“A lot of universities are moving toward a system like this, but we’ve beaten a lot of them to the punch,” Sternglanz said to The Crimson at the time.
Chao, Sternglanz, and Truong then went on to start their own company, Crimson Solutions, which provided a recruiting platform for students to use as they entered the job market. According to Truong, Crimson Solutions raised over $22 million in funding and eventually merged with another company.
For Truong, moving into the internet company space with Crimson Solutions was the first of a number of entrepreneurial ventures he has undertaken since. After leaving Crimson Solutions, Truong worked as a consultant for a few years, during which time he said he realized that he “didn’t go to Harvard to be someone’s minion” and returned to entrepreneurship.
Truong said that he was not the only member of his class to enter internet startups during the “dot-com bubble” and referenced other tech entrepreneurs that graduated from Harvard in the years after him, ultimately crediting his own success to persistence.
In the years since, internet careers — including outside of entrepreneurship — have become increasingly common amongst Harvard alumni, with 12 percent of respondents to The Crimson’s 2023 Senior Survey saying that they plan on working in the tech industry after graduating — the third most popular choice after finance and consulting.
Using the internet, Truong said that he is hoping his most recent venture, a robotic recycling company named Phuc Labs, will take him to billionaire status — but added that he is “already a millionaire.”
“That’s the fucking internet. It’s crazy,” he added.
—Staff writer Jonah C. Karafiol can be reached at jonah.karafiol@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @jonahkarafiol.
—Staff writer Neil H. Shah can be reached at neil.shah@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @neilhshah15.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Billionaire Ken Griffin ’89 Breaks with DeSantis on ‘Don’t Say Gay’ Expansion Amid Criticism at GSAS
News
Graduating Harvard Seniors Receive Diplomas at ‘Heartwarming’ House Ceremonies
News
President Bacow Bids Farewell to Harvard, Confers 1,850 College Degrees at 372nd Commencement
News
‘How to Survive the Fall in Three Easy Steps’: Michelle Yeoh Addresses the Harvard Law School Class of 2023
News
As it Happened: Harvard Commencement 2023
In October 2022, nearly 50 years after his graduation from Harvard, Seth P. Waxman ’73 defended his alma mater before the Supreme Court.
Waxman, who now serves as a partner at law firm WilmerHale, is no stranger to high profile litigation. His illustrious legal career includes a stint as United States solicitor general from 1997 to 2001 and more than 80 cases in front of the Supreme Court.
Waxman, who promised to see the litigation through its end, has been a part of Harvard’s defense since the University was first sued over its admissions practices more than eight years ago.
The lawsuit, originally brought by anti-affirmative action group Students for Fair Admissions in 2014, alleges that Harvard College’s race-conscious admissions processes discriminate against Asian American applicants. Harvard has denied all claims of discrimination.
The Supreme Court heard oral arguments in the case last fall. Though two lower courts previously sided with Harvard, legal experts believe the Court’s strong conservative majority will rule against Harvard and its admissions policies, with a decision expected this summer.
Still, Waxman recalled being “excited” when he was first asked to represent Harvard by then-University President Drew G. Faust and General Counsel Robert W. Iuliano ’83.
“This was going to be a very important piece of litigation — not just for Harvard, but for the country,” he said. “I felt particularly honored to be asked by Harvard to do it for the institution and for higher ed generally.”
“It’s been a broadening experience for me,” he added.
Waxman said that his Harvard education was formative in “shaping [his] outlook about the world.”
As an undergraduate, Waxman said he maintained a “very, very, very busy schedule.”
“I was attempting to put myself through school, while also, I was very seriously involved in musical performance, photography, and research,” he said.
A resident of Quincy House, Waxman was also highly engaged in house life, where he worked at the house’s grille, ran its darkroom, and taught classes in photography.
But unbeknownst to him at the time, the connections he made at Harvard played a pivotal role in his career path as a public servant.
After rising to managing partner of law firm Miller, Cassidy, Larroca & Lewin, Waxman recalled being “quite happy” in his regular and pro bono practices.
In 1994, Jamie S. Gorelick ’72, who was a friend of Waxman’s and a fellow resident of Quincy, was appointed deputy attorney general.
Gorelick reached out to Waxman and another undergraduate friend of theirs — now Attorney General Merrick B. Garland ’74 — with an offer to work at the Department of Justice.
“Both Merrick and I said yes, and it became sort of a little triumvirate of Harvard friends who had the experience together,” Waxman said.
Waxman’s involvement at Harvard in his five decades since graduation spans far more than the ongoing Supreme Court case. He served on the Board of Overseers — Harvard’s second-highest governing body — from 2005 to 2012, including a stint as its president from 2010 to 2011.
After leaving government service, Waxman also served as a visiting fellow at the Harvard Kennedy School, where he taught an undergraduate course.
“Although I graduated 50 years ago, I sort of feel like my engagement with Harvard has never really ended,” he said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Billionaire Ken Griffin ’89 Breaks with DeSantis on ‘Don’t Say Gay’ Expansion Amid Criticism at GSAS
News
Graduating Harvard Seniors Receive Diplomas at ‘Heartwarming’ House Ceremonies
News
President Bacow Bids Farewell to Harvard, Confers 1,850 College Degrees at 372nd Commencement
News
‘How to Survive the Fall in Three Easy Steps’: Michelle Yeoh Addresses the Harvard Law School Class of 2023
News
As it Happened: Harvard Commencement 2023
In March 1973, about 700 members of Harvard’s Graduate Students and Teaching Fellow Union braved four days of sub-zero temperatures to protest the newly introduced Kraus Plan, which ultimately reduced financial aid for graduate students.
“Down by the stadium was a big rallying point,” recalled Francis M. Davis ’73, who observed the strike as an undergraduate. “It starts out as being a kind of peaceful demonstration. And the cops show up, and they start beating on their shields and stuff, and so the wild ones in the crowd start getting nasty and start throwing stuff.”
By evening a full-on riot had erupted, according to Davis.
The Kraus Plan stipulated that departments in the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences could choose to underfund students by $1,000 of their calculated financial need. That funding would go toward “merit scholarships,” offered at the discretion of department heads. GSAS also had to reduce the size of its incoming class by at least 50 students.
The plan came in the wake of dramatic federal budget cuts, which left the University with a sudden $700,000 decrease in funding — equivalent to almost $4.8 million today. In principle, the plan aimed to redistribute Harvard’s reduced funds to those who needed it most, but it met widespread backlash from the student body.
On the day of the strike, undergraduate attendance plummeted by 30 percent in an act of solidarity with the protesters. Teaching fellows also considered withholding undergraduate grades until the University responded, but ultimately did not.
“I remember the teaching fellows union effort well (‘You can’t eat prestige’) and was strongly supportive,” E.J. Dionne ’73, a columnist for The Washington Post and a former Crimson editor, wrote in an email. “I grew up in a union town and that shaped my view of unions, then and now.”
Protesters argued that including parental income and teaching salary in financial aid calculations particularly harmed middle-class students and those seeking positions as teaching fellows.
No other Ivy League institution had implemented similar changes despite experiencing equivalent federal cutbacks.
Though it took a 20-member steering committee three weeks to plan the union and the strike, Harvard administration ultimately refused to revise its financial aid plan.
For some students, the strike was just one more event in the series of upheavals that characterized the turbulent 1970s. Amid civil rights movements, the Vietnam War, and economic instability, several alumni recalled political tension and uncertainty during their college years but had little to no recollection of the graduate student protests.
For others, however, the graduate strike provided a way for students to participate in the political upheaval of the decade.
“So much debate and discussion filled the dorms and hallways about the state of the country, and its policies around war, and our treatment of people of color in other nations,” Deane Wang ’73 wrote in an emailed statement.
“Taking part in civil action, like supporting the 1973 graduate student strike, seemed like just another necessary personal action to help change some little part of the world,” Wang added.
—Staff writer Makanaka Nyandoro can be reached at makanaka.nyandoro@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Jennifer Y. Song can be reached at jennifer.song@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Dean of the College Harry R. Lewis ’68 and Dean of Students Archie C. Epps III released a 16-clause statement outlining a strengthened alcohol policy on Oct. 22, 1997, leading to radical changes to Harvard’s alcohol and smoking rules in the late 1990s.
“We are moving towards a no tolerance posture,” Epps said in an interview at the time.
The policy called on student organizations to observe alcohol-related regulations; senior tutors, freshman deans, and house masters — now called faculty deans — to prevent underage drinking at Harvard functions; businesses to “be strict” in checking identification; and police to enforce alcohol-related laws.
The statement came after the alcohol-related deaths of two MIT students and claimed that “intoxication is associated with every form of adverse social behavior occurring at Harvard.”
Smoking in all undergraduate houses was banned six months later in April 1998.
Still, the strengthened policies did not seem to leave a significant impression on the average Harvard undergraduate.
“Rather than being a complete reversal, it was more like turning the dial a little bit in the sense of slightly less drinking,” Ben J. Lima ’98 said.
Adam M. Kleinbaum ’98 remembered “frequent pronouncements” about reducing drinking on-campus and “some rules that prohibited hard alcohol.”
The changes in smoking rules may have left a deeper memory. Lima recalled a “continuous progression” towards less smoking in the United States.
“I remember my parents saying that when they were young, that smoke would just be everywhere, people would smoke anywhere and everywhere, which seemed strange to me,” he said.
Lima said he noticed smoking becoming increasingly “segregated to specific places” in his childhood, such as “smoking” and “non-smoking” sections in restaurants. Boston’s 1998 ban of smoking entirely in restaurants felt “new and unusual” to Lima.
“Smoking was definitely more common than it is now, but not very widely practiced. I definitely knew some people who smoked, but that was the exception more than the rule,” Kleinbaum said.
Lewis, who was dean of the College from 1995 to 2003, said he did not “remember any such no tolerance” policy, but he emphasized that College restrictions were focused on preventing deaths.
“Those are the most horrible calls in the world to make,” he said. “I’m trying at all costs, to avoid, if possible, creating the circumstances where a tragedy like that can happen.”
Lewis said the issue of excessive drinking on campus was not apparent to him until he began receiving the reports as dean.
“I became aware of, and sensitized to, the problem of alcohol abuse, just when I started getting reports of numbers of students who were hospitalized over the weekends, taken by ambulance somewhere so they could be kept alive,” he said.
An incident involving a beer keg at one year’s Harvard-Yale football game led to a ban on kegs at tailgate events, Lewis recalled.
“A student was suffering from alcohol poisoning, and because the field where the tailgate was taking place was muddy, it was impossible for a rescue vehicle or EMT vehicle to reach it. It got stuck in the mud trying to get across the field to rescue that particular student,” Lewis said.
“People are less inclined to try, for whatever reason, to try to down a whole case of beer than they are to down a whole keg of beer,” he added.
Still, drinking was common at several spots on campus. Among the most popular for undergraduates was the Crimson Sports Grille, which closed in 2001 after a string of alcohol violations. Some also enjoyed alcoholic scorpion bowls at the Hong Kong Restaurant.
Lima wrote that the “artsy crowd” favored smoking Dunhill cigarettes at the now-closed Cafe Pamplona “with a beret and a copy of Being and Nothingness or Being and Time, really anything with ‘Being’ in the title.”
Undergraduates often flocked to Pinocchio’s Pizza, affectionately called “Noch’s,” for greasy late-night fare after parties.
“The combination of Harvard Yard and Harvard Square and the houses is just a fantastic place to be an undergrad, that’s for sure,” Lima said.
Students also frequented the convenience store Louie’s Superette, whose owner was charged with selling alcohol to minors in 2004. Blanchard’s Liquors ended its room-delivery keg service after the alcohol-related 1997 death of an MIT student that sparked Harvard’s alcohol policy change.
Kleinbaum, a former Crimson News editor, said students drank “to enhance the good time” they were having in college and was mostly “good clean fun.”
“Not everybody drank but most people, I would say, probably did during college, and there wasn’t a whole lot of stigma attached to it,” Kleinbaun said.
Some also found new, creative ways to libate. During the 1997-98 academic year, Lima and his roommates built, decorated, and opened a 21-plus, invitation-only bar in a spare room in their suite, Dunster House E-22.
“What happened was someone moved out, which means at the last minute, we had an extra space and we said, ‘What are we going to do with this extra space?’ and, ‘Let’s make it a place to throw parties and call it the Mask and Spear Pub,’” Lima said.
“I think it was pretty successful. But again, only because if we’d been really causing problems, I’m sure they would have shut it down,” he added.
Harvard’s drinking culture appeared to be more muted compared to other schools, according to Lima.
“Being Harvard, I think a significant number of undergrads abstained entirely, since both drinking and smoking could be seen as obstacles to maximum achievement in both academics and personal health,” he wrote in an email.
—Staff writer Austin H. Wang can be reached at austin.wang@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Tyler J.H. Ory can be reached at tyler.ory@thecrimson.com.
News
Billionaire Ken Griffin ’89 Breaks with DeSantis on ‘Don’t Say Gay’ Expansion Amid Criticism at GSAS
News
Graduating Harvard Seniors Receive Diplomas at ‘Heartwarming’ House Ceremonies
News
President Bacow Bids Farewell to Harvard, Confers 1,850 College Degrees at 372nd Commencement
News
‘How to Survive the Fall in Three Easy Steps’: Michelle Yeoh Addresses the Harvard Law School Class of 2023
News
As it Happened: Harvard Commencement 2023
Vivek H. Murthy ’98 isn’t quite sure what he’ll do next.
“I’ve never been great about seeing too far into the future for myself. I have found, actually, that as time goes on, I tend to think more and more short term,” he said.
Right now, though, Murthy has more than enough on his plate. His resume features numerous board positions, nonprofit and business ventures, and a bestselling book. A father of two, Murthy now serves as surgeon general of the United States — the youngest person ever to be confirmed to the position and the first of Indian descent.
Murthy looks back at his studies at Harvard — as a summer school student, undergraduate, and medical resident — as periods of formative exploration, interpersonal bonding, and personal development.
Murthy, the child of Indian immigrants, first experienced Harvard as a high school student when he attended Harvard Summer School with his sister. According to Murthy, the school left him with a glowing impression.
“I had a really wonderful time there,” Murthy said.
Gerald B. Pier, one of Murthy’s summer school professors and later mentor, remembers the young student leaving an impression on him as well.
“As I recall, he as a high school student scored the highest scores on the tests in the class,” Pier said. “That was pretty impressive given that there were plenty of Harvard upper division and graduate students who also took the class.”
A Quincy House resident, Murthy said the transition from his public high school in Miami, Florida, to the College left him feeling “very inadequate” at many times.
Though he had always imagined himself pursuing medicine, Murthy said he began to seriously consider history, economics, and literature when he came to Harvard. He was ultimately called back to medicine through VISIONS Worldwide, a nonprofit organization focused on HIV/AIDS education that he co-founded with his sister during his freshman year.
Murthy’s friends say he was as studious as he was kind, which set him apart from his peers.
“Harvard kids can be super cerebral but sometimes lacking in emotional intelligence,” wrote friend and classmate Sewell Chan ’98. “That wasn’t Vivek — he was a brilliant student but also someone whose compassion and kindness stood out.”
“I was always impressed by how persistent he could be, working for so many hours in a row,” said Akilesh “Akil” Palanisamy ’98, Murthy’s friend and roommate. “At the same time, he was always willing to have a conversation. If I wanted to talk to him about something, then he would stop what he was doing and then sometimes those conversations would go on for hours.”
Murthy graduated magna cum laude with a bachelor’s in biochemical sciences before earning his MD and MBA from Yale in 2003.
Murthy said it was “incredible” to return to Boston for his internal medicine residency at Brigham and Women’s Hospital and Harvard Medical School in 2003.
“I came to work every day feeling like I was coming to see friends,” Murthy said. “We stood by each other during some of our darkest hours and we celebrated together.”
In 2007, Murthy co-founded TrialNetworks, which aimed to optimize the quality and efficiency of clinical trials. Two years later, he co-founded Doctors for America, a nonprofit advocating for improved health care policy.
Barack Obama appointed Murthy to serve on the Presidential Advisory Council on Prevention, Health Promotion, and Integrative and Public Health in 2011. The next year, he co-chaired the health care advisory committee for Obama’s reelection campaign.
Staying true to his lack of a plan, Murthy said he let his passions steer him through these endeavors.
“None of them were really the result of a lot of pre-planning or some five-year strategic plan,” Murthy said. “They were the result of feeling inspiration in the moment and then taking a leap and pursuing it.”
Murthy’s wife, on the other hand, knew exactly what was in store for him. Alice Chen recalled being unsurprised when Murthy texted her to say he had received a message from the White House in summer 2013.
“I picked up the phone and I said, ‘They just asked you to be surgeon general, didn’t they?’’” Chen said. “I just knew.”
Despite serving as the nation’s doctor, Chen said Murthy still makes the time to be the “best dad.”
“Even though he has this really important position, he comes home for dinner,” Chen said. “He’s there for the kids and for me and for the rest of the family in ways that are really special.”
Looking ahead, Murthy said he hopes his family can give back to the world.
“As I get older, I realized that what I really want for myself and my kids when they grow up is I want them to be deeply fulfilled. I want them to contribute to the world in some way,” Murthy said.
After authoring a book on the power of human connection, Murthy is quick to highlight social bonding as a top priority.
“I come back to this 25th reunion, if anything, wishing that I had spent more time with people — building friendships, getting to know my classmates,” Murthy said.
“Even though it’s been 25 years, I’m hoping to make up for some lost time,” he added.
—Staff writer J. Sellers Hill can be reached at sellers.hill@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @SellersHill.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Billionaire Ken Griffin ’89 Breaks with DeSantis on ‘Don’t Say Gay’ Expansion Amid Criticism at GSAS
News
Graduating Harvard Seniors Receive Diplomas at ‘Heartwarming’ House Ceremonies
News
President Bacow Bids Farewell to Harvard, Confers 1,850 College Degrees at 372nd Commencement
News
‘How to Survive the Fall in Three Easy Steps’: Michelle Yeoh Addresses the Harvard Law School Class of 2023
News
As it Happened: Harvard Commencement 2023
During the first few reunions of the Class of 1973, some alumnae posed for two class photos: one for Harvard College and another for Radcliffe College. But at every Radcliffe photo opportunity, Margaret V. Sachs ’73 declined.
“I would never join the Radcliffe picture,” Sachs said. “It was unthinkable for me that I would join such a picture.”
The women of the Class of 1973 stand at a turning point in the University’s history.
“We were all admitted to Radcliffe, but graduated from Harvard,” Deborah N. Hendler ’73 said. “Right there, we encapsulate the tension and the question.”
Though it wasn’t until 1999 that Radcliffe officially merged with Harvard — with the former becoming the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study — the decades that preceded the official merger saw a series of hard-fought wins for female students at the University.
In 1946, Harvard’s classes became co-ed. Nearly two decades later, in 1963, Harvard began awarding Radcliffe students diplomas for the first time. In 1975, Harvard and Radcliffe merged their admissions, which then went “sex-blind” two years later.
In an unofficial merger move, the Class of 1973 saw co-ed living introduced during the spring of their first year. The decision resulted in an exchange — some male students moved up to inhabit Radcliffe housing, today known as the Quad — while some female students moved down to the river Houses.
During her first year, Cleora J. D’Arcy ’73 lived in Holmes Hall, a portion of Pforzheimer House. D’Arcy said the eight men who moved in became a “very integral part of Holmes Hall.”
“They knew everybody and they were a very positive influence,” she said. “For me, it was like having a bunch of brothers that moved in.”
As D’Arcy and others recalled, the men who moved to the Radcliffe Quadrangle were surprised by the dormitory rules, including bell hours. Students rotated shifts sitting in the front office of the residence hall, where they called residents upstairs to announce visitors.
D’Arcy, who served as bell captain, remembered dealing with one reluctant student.
“My now-husband, the first words he ever said to me were ‘Why do guys have to do bells?’” D’Arcy said, laughing. “And I said, ‘Because you’re living in this dorm now.’”
In addition to bell hours, residents of Radcliffe Quad had parietal rules. Men could not enter women’s rooms after a certain hour, and the women themselves had curfews of 11 p.m.
“There was a pretty paternalistic system in place with a lot of rules,” Laurel P. Northup ’73 said.
But in the fall of Northup’s freshman year, her residence hall decided to end these restrictions during a dorm meeting.
“At the very first one we elected a governing body and we voted collectively to abolish the parietal rules,” Northup said.
Even with these steps and the unofficial merger the following spring, life for female students on campus was not without its challenges. Women were not allowed to eat or use the libraries in the river Houses, though men were welcome in their dining halls and libraries.
“We either had to go back to Radcliffe to eat, or they began packing us lunches and we still had to find a place to eat them,” Helen “Holly” Weeks ’73 said.
Like they did for meals, women squeezed in bike rides to the Radcliffe Quad between classes to use the restroom, as there were no women’s restrooms in the Yard.
“There was so much not factored in,” Weeks said. “I would not have said that then. This is hindsight saying, ‘Yeah, they never really took us as human beings into account.’”
Looking back on her college experience, Sachs also recognized the challenges of living in Radcliffe and said she had “no nostalgia” for Radcliffe, calling it a “hindrance” that only served to “siphon us off from the mainstream of the College experience.”
“Radcliffe held us back,” she said. “Radcliffe accomplished nothing. It was there only because institutions exist to perpetuate themselves.”
“I take a very dim view of women’s auxiliary, and it seems to me that’s what Radcliffe was — and remains, to the extent that any vestige of it remains,” she added.
Despite the slow merger of the two colleges, Marian B. Schwartz ’73 proudly owned her status as a Radcliffe student. When she met other women who graduated from the College in the ’90s, she recalled, they had “zero Radcliffe identity.”
“I thought it was sort of a loss,” Schwartz said.
D’Arcy echoed Schwartz’s feelings about Radcliffe’s reputation. “It’s more of a feather in your cap to say that you went to Radcliffe, because it was harder to get into,” she said, laughing.
Fifty years after graduation, Weeks emphasized the role women played in fighting for their place at Harvard.
“It hasn’t always been the way it is,” Weeks said. “The women’s contribution and getting to where we are is underestimated. It’s taken out of context — and that’s the context.”
—Staff writer Jade Lozada can be reached at jade.lozada@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Claire Yuan can be reached at claire.yuan@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @claireyuan33.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Billionaire Ken Griffin ’89 Breaks with DeSantis on ‘Don’t Say Gay’ Expansion Amid Criticism at GSAS
News
Graduating Harvard Seniors Receive Diplomas at ‘Heartwarming’ House Ceremonies
News
President Bacow Bids Farewell to Harvard, Confers 1,850 College Degrees at 372nd Commencement
News
‘How to Survive the Fall in Three Easy Steps’: Michelle Yeoh Addresses the Harvard Law School Class of 2023
News
As it Happened: Harvard Commencement 2023
Fifty years ago, as Robert W. Decherd ’73 stood with his fellow editors at The Crimson’s centennial celebration, he said that the event “has meant more in an institutional way than any Harvard Reunion or office party ever could.” Now, as Decherd returns to Harvard for his 50th reunion, he remains convinced.
“Our 50th reunion may mean more to me and my fellow Crimeds because we had the privilege of presiding over the paper’s Centennial celebration,” Decherd wrote in an email to The Crimson. “So being back for the 150th Celebration, followed closely this week by our 50th reunion, reinforces the respect we have for one another.”
As an undergraduate, Decherd worked as a reporter for The Crimson, later serving as the paper’s first president from the state of Texas. Decherd’s time at the paper was characterized by protests over the Vietnam War, student occupations of University and Massachusetts halls, and rioting in Harvard Square. Despite the tense circumstances, Decherd wrote that he was proud to cover this dramatic piece of the University’s history at The Crimson.
“I think we were successful in navigating the many, often conflicting forces present at Harvard then by listening to both sides engaged in every issue and trying to present differing views in an even-handed fashion,” he wrote. “This was a distinguishing characteristic of our Guard and the one thing I am most proud of.”
Decherd has moved from the president’s chair at 14 Plympton St. to serving as the CEO of the A.H. Belo Corporation — a media company which operates newspapers and news stations around the nation.
The corporation — which is the oldest continuously operating business in the state of Texas — most notably publishes the Dallas Morning News, an outlet that has been owned by Decherd’s family for four generations. As an undergraduate, however, Decherd had no plans to join the family business and instead wanted to strike out on his own.
“Yes, I aspired to be a journalist and actually had a job at the Baltimore Sun as a reporter. And then the fall of my senior, my father died,” Decherd said in an interview. “It was not so much a choice as the reality that I needed to come back to Dallas and see how this evolved.”
Since entering the Belo Corporation in 1973, Decherd has overseen both the evolution of the company and its journalistic landscape. Under his leadership, the company’s television presence expanded, with the number of company stations growing from two to 20.
As the internet has pushed journalism out of the era of print media and into the social media age, Decherd says that this shift “has been incredibly disruptive” for local journalism.
“As much as the critics viewed what they described as the ‘monopoly of legacy journalism’ for really most of the 20th century, there were things about it that were really good,” he said. “There were hierarchies of how news and information was gathered and edited and curated before it ever was published.”
“And that’s in stark contrast to the instantaneity of the Internet, which has fundamentally changed the way all of journalism — specifically local journalism — is practiced,” he said.
In this liminal time of journalistic evolution, Decherd holds fast to the ideal he formed during his time as a Harvard student: “communities need high quality, reliable news and information — whether it’s delivered instantly or with some curation.”
“People need — and I think they yearn for — quality news and information and insights,” he added. “And we have to find a way in an internet-driven world to deliver that.”
—Staff writer Sally E. Edwards can be reached at sally.edwards@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @sallyedwards04.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
If Dallas Mayor Eric L. Johnson ’98 hadn’t met Robert Bridgeman — then the director of programs at the Phillips Brooks House Association — while walking across Harvard Yard in his freshman fall, his life of public service might not have been the same.
Bridgeman offered Johnson the opportunity to be the director of the Cambridge Youth Enrichment Program upon hearing about Johnson’s upbringing in “one of the toughest neighborhoods, if not the toughest neighborhood of Dallas.” CYEP offers summer academic and extracurricular enrichment to low-income youth in Cambridge.
Johnson accepted the position and spearheaded CYEP’s activities, raised funds for the program, resided in one of the housing projects where program participants lived, and became certified to drive a passenger van to transport students.
“I really decided, I think at that point, that what I really wanted to do with my life was to serve my community and particularly kids who are growing up in disadvantaged circumstances,” Johnson said.
Michelle J. Douglas, director of programs at the PBHA spoke of Johnson’s ability to “bring long-lasting memories to these children and give them something that they may never have ever had before.”
“Eric really brought them together,” Douglas added.
Since June 2019, Johnson has served as mayor of Dallas, becoming the second Black mayor in the city’s history. He credits his experience at PBHA and his childhood as having shaped his views on public safety, the “hallmark” of his mayoralty and career.
Johnson was raised in Dallas in a “low-income neighborhood” in a family of six. When he was a high school student, he experienced “the most violent years in American history in terms of homicides and violent crime,” according to Johnson.
“I have not forgotten what it’s like to live in a neighborhood where you are routinely awakened by gunfire or where you lose friends to gun violence,” Johnson said. “And where there are regularly funerals at your local church for kids who look just like you and are your same age.”
In his youth, Johnson attended the Greenhill School on a scholarship from the Boys and Girls Clubs of Greater Dallas. It was there that he discovered his love for history — which he later concentrated in at Harvard.
While Johnson did not necessarily entertain a political career while entering college, he “always had a real interest in leadership.”
On choosing to study at Harvard, Johnson said he was “intrigued by the idea of attending a school that has been so successful in training so many great leaders for our country.”
A resident of Cabot House, Johnson was involved with PBHA and the Harvard Black Students Association. He was also a member of the Kappa Alpha Psi fraternity.
“If and when there was ever any conflict between organizations, he was always our mediator,” said Mark A. Thompson ’98, Johnson’s fraternity brother.
“It was clear that he had a gift for both representing people as well as being able to communicate well with everyone,” Thompson added.
Leading community service efforts in BSA and his fraternity, Johnson was awarded multiple scholarships through PBHA as well as the John Lord O’Brian Award from the University, which is given to a student who shows “particular promise of a career in public service,” according to Johnson.
Douglas said that Johnson was “definitely an overachiever and really, really passionate about helping kids.”
“You could see that passion in his face when he did most anything in regards to the CYEP,” she continued.
Johnson’s time at Harvard was “the turning point that I can point to in my career where I decided that’s really what I wanted to do with my life,” Johnson said.
After graduating from the College cum laude in 1998, Johnson attended the Princeton School of Public and International Affairs, where he obtained a master’s degree in Public Affairs. Soon after, he earned his J.D. from the University of Pennsylvania on a public service scholarship.
Outside of academics, he worked in a number of public service positions, including working on narcotics prosecution at the ​​United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York.
Despite leaving Texas to pursue higher education, Johnson always knew that he would return to Dallas “to make this community better.”
“Dallas is home and Texas is home and it always has been and always will be,” Johnson said.
Recalling her first impression of Johnson, Douglas said he seemed “a little eccentric, a little sort of Texas.”
“The pride that he has in his own city from growing up there and watching the evolution of the city of Dallas, and having a hand in crafting what it is today is definitely his passion,” Douglas said. “And again, it all is driven by, I believe, his love for children, his love for education and learning.”
In April 2010, Johnson won a special election for a vacant seat in the Texas House of Representatives for the 100th district, an office he would hold until 2019 when he became mayor of Dallas. During this period, he was also selected to become a member of the Council of Foreign Relations, a nonpartisan think tank.
Johnson participated in the Harvard Kennedy School’s Senior Executives in State and Local Government program in 2018, a three-week program for “government officials, elected officeholders, and executives with nonprofit organizations,” according to the program’s website.
“It really started to make me think about other ways I could serve,” Johnson said. “That program, if anything, was maybe the beginning of my thinking of running for mayor.”
In the 2019 mayoral election, Johnson won with 55.6 percent of the vote in a runoff election. Not long after he took office in June, the Covid-19 pandemic hit, bringing with it a “violent crime wave that sort of hit the entire country,” Johnson said.
As crime rates surged, Johnson was reminded of the violence he grew up with in Dallas in the 1990s.
“I did not want my kids, any folks who live in the city to go through what we went through back then — where the homicides just exploded, and people were afraid to walk outside, and all the youth-related violence and the gang violence,” Johnson said.
Lowering crime became one of Johnson’s main goals as he worked to ensure that police departments were adequately funded. He also sought to improve “non-law enforcement tools,” including improving the lighting in higher-crime areas, doubling down on violence interrupter programs, and partnering with the Dallas school district to improve social-emotional learning.
Johnson touted decreases in violent crime in Dallas during 2021 and 2022 — a trend unlike other major U.S. cities.
“That is directly attributable to the intensity that I brought to this issue because of how I grew up and what I experienced being an at-risk youth in the city of Dallas. I lived that life and I know what that’s like, and I just don’t want that for any kid in my city,” Johnson said.
Johnson has also worked to provide young Dallas residents with activities and employment while they are out of school. He launched the Summer of Safety campaign last year and the Dallas Works program in 2020.
“I feel an intense pressure to create more opportunities for children in particular who were not born in the best of circumstances and who need to hear a message and need to see an example of what can be done, what their lives can be, what they can accomplish,” Johnson said.
Despite being re-elected to his second term with nearly 99 percent of the vote last month, Johnson has faced policy disagreements from “members on my own city council” and people he has “worked with for many years.”
He described his “fight to get a new police chief,” since the former chief “did not fully comprehend the magnitude of the problem.”
“I just did what I knew to be — based on my upbringing — what families who are actually having to live with the consequences of these decisions as they relate to public safety would want,” Johnson said.
“Eric doesn’t thrive on what people think of him. He thrives on what he thinks he can do for the people,” Douglas said.
—Staff writer Caroline K. Hsu can be reached at caroline.hsu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @CarolineHsu_.
News
Billionaire Ken Griffin ’89 Breaks with DeSantis on ‘Don’t Say Gay’ Expansion Amid Criticism at GSAS
News
Graduating Harvard Seniors Receive Diplomas at ‘Heartwarming’ House Ceremonies
News
President Bacow Bids Farewell to Harvard, Confers 1,850 College Degrees at 372nd Commencement
News
‘How to Survive the Fall in Three Easy Steps’: Michelle Yeoh Addresses the Harvard Law School Class of 2023
News
As it Happened: Harvard Commencement 2023
Former Harvard women’s basketball head coach Kathy Delaney-Smith racked up a long list of records and accomplishments during her time in Cambridge, including becoming the winningest head coach in the history of Ivy League basketball, becoming one of four Division I coaches to spend 40 years at one institution, and winning 11 Ivy League titles.
However, Harvard’s historic upset of the No. 1 Stanford Cardinal in the 1998 NCAA Women’s Basketball Tournament may have been the biggest moment of Delaney-Smith’s tenure.
Until March 14, 1998, a No. 16 seed had never beaten a No. 1 seed in either the men’s or women’s postseason basketball tournament. The Cardinal entered the NCAA Tournament as the competition’s top overall seed and the top seed in the West Region, while the Crimson earned an automatic bid to the tournament as the Ivy League champion, where it was seeded 16th in the West region, and 62nd out of 64 teams.
“We didn’t feel like terrible underdogs going in,” then-senior guard Alison Seanor told The Crimson in 2018. “But I think the entire country thought we were underdogs.”
After hiring Tara VanDerveer as head coach in 1985, the Cardinal had won two national championships while reaching the Final Four five times, including in 1995-1996 and 1996-1997. After another strong season in 1997-1998, Stanford entered the NCAA Tournament as the No. 1 overall seed and the top team in the West Region, earning home-court advantage at Maples Pavillion on Stanford’s campus, where the Cardinal had won 59 consecutive games.
Despite the Cardinal’s top ranking, Stanford was facing two major injuries at the start of the postseason. Star forward Vanessa Nygaard suffered an ACL injury in the team’s final regular season game against Oregon State, while All-American Kristin Folkl, the team’s leading scorer and rebounder, landed awkwardly during a late-season practice and suffered a knee injury, keeping both players out of the NCAA Tournament game.
On the Harvard side, Allison Feaster had led the nation in scoring as the Crimson had raced to a 22-4 record (12-2 in the Ivy League) and an outright Ivy League title. Harvard had made the NCAA tournament in the previous two seasons, losing in 1996 to the third-seeded Vanderbilt Commodores and in 1997 to the first-seeded North Carolina Tar Heels, each time in the first round. After a dominant season in 1997-1998, the Crimson were again ranked as a 16-seed, which provided added motivation for Harvard.
“We were very upset about where we were seeded,” then-junior guard Dr. Suzie Miller recalled in 2018. “It was a slap in the face to be seeded 16…so we came in with a bit of a chip on our shoulder.”
The first half of the game was defined by dominant runs from each side. Harvard surged to a 22-9 lead midway through the first half, but the Cardinal responded with a 25-11 run to take a one point lead with under three minutes to play in the half. The Crimson roared back with nine unanswered points to take an eight point advantage into the second half. In surging ahead, Harvard held the Cardinal to 31% shooting from the field in the first half while winning the rebounding and turnover battle.
Stanford narrowed the lead in the early stages of the second half, and the lead changed hands throughout the rest of the game, keeping the score tight until the final buzzer. Inside the final two minutes, Miller gave Harvard a 66-65 lead with a jump shot, and after a defensive stop by the Crimson, Miller hit a three pointer to extend Harvard’s lead to four points at 69-65. The Crimson held on for a 71-67 victory, the first time a No. 16 seed had defeated a No. 1 seed in the history of the NCAA Tournament — and also the first time Stanford had lost in the first round of the tournament since 1982.
Leading the way for Harvard was Feaster — scoring nearly half of Harvard’s points with 35 — while also grabbing 13 rebounds.
“This was one of the best wins I’ve ever experienced. I can’t tell you how much adversity we faced just coming in here, but somehow we did it,” Feaster said after the game.
Her coach Delaney-Smith spoke with a similar sentiment at the time, sharing, “I’m really happy because no one thought we could do this but us. We prided ourselves on breaking records [this year], and this certainly tops that list.”
After a history-making defeat of the Cardinal on their own court, the Crimson tried to continue its Cinderella run in a second round game against the University of Arkansas, though it ultimately lost to the Razorbacks 82-64. To this day, no other team in collegiate women’s basketball has achieved such a victory in the NCAA Tournament.
In 1998, Delaney-Smith noted how much this particular victory meant not just to Harvard, but the entire Ivy League.
“This means more for the Ivy League than Harvard,” she said. “At some point we had to get a little respect, and as a 16 seed, I thought we didn’t get it. [The Ivy League] has had some great athletes, and our top team has always been competitive.”
In Harvard’s 2022-23 season, it made another mark in the record books by playing in the Great Eight of the NCAA’s WNIT tournament. Delaney-Smith has since retired, but with new head coach Carrie Moore at the helm, another historic NCAA tournament run has certainly been maintained within the program’s goals for the coming years.
—Staff writer Mairead B. Baker can be reached at mairead.baker@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @baker_mairead.
—Staff writer Aaron B. Shuchman can be reached at aaron.shuchman@thecrimson.com
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
