News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After a crushing loss on Monday night to the Northeastern University Huskies in the Beanpot Championship game, it was imperative that the No. 9 Harvard men’s hockey team put the sting of defeat in the past with four important intra-conference games remaining in the regular season.
“There was a lot of emotional capital spent on Monday night. I thought it was important that we got off to a good start,” head coach Ted Donato said.
The Crimson did just that, taking down the Union College Dutchmen 5-3 on Friday night and the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute Engineers 4-0 on Saturday. With the Friday win, Harvard secured a top four seed in the ECAC, ensuring a first-round bye in the ECAC tournament, which will crown the conference champion in mid-March prior to the NCAA tournament.
“I thought that was a great win for us. [It was] emotional past Monday so it was really good to see a good team response like that,” said senior forward and captain Baker Shore on Friday. “And a good win rolling into this time of the year.”
Harvard also secured a win on Saturday’s Senior Night, the Crimson’s final home game of the regular season, and celebrated with a post game ceremony honoring forwards John Farinacci, Wyllum Deveaux, Austin Wong, and Shore, defensemen Henry Thrun, Ryan Siedem, and Jace Foskey, and goaltender Mitchell Gibson.
HARVARD 4, RPI 0
In honor of Senior Night, Donato started the game off with five seniors: Deveaux, Shore, and Wong at forward with Thrun and Foskey on defense. Neither team got its offensive game moving in the first five minutes, but the Crimson slowly began to find their legs after a strong shift that began with a forced turnover. Just over eight minutes into the period, sophomore forward Matthew Coronato opened the scoring after collecting the puck at the right circle, shielding off an Engineers defender as he maneuvered to the slot, and cleanly beating Engineers goaltender Jack Watson with a wrist shot.
Despite surrendering the first goal, RPI’s forecheck created havoc throughout the first period, producing a number of opportunities. Forward Ryan Mahshie was unable to capitalize off of a forced turnover when his wrap-around attempt hit the side of the net, and forward Jake Gagnon had another chance off of a forced turnover, but he was denied by Gibson. In the dying seconds of the period, forward Sutter Muzzatti made an incredible series of moves to weave through the defense and through the net, but the puck slid off his stick when he got to the crease, keeping Harvard in front 1-0 at the end of the first.
The Crimson got off to a fast start in the second period, with junior forward Alex Laferriere narrowly missing a goal when his wrist shot hit the crossbar. Soon after, first-year defenseman Ryan Healey had a great chance from the slot that he narrowly missed high, but Harvard’s momentum was threatened when Thrun was penalized for hooking just over three minutes into the period.
The Crimson’s penalty kill stifled RPI’s power play, with the Engineers only recording one shot on goal. Immediately after the power play expired, Laferriere, Farinacci, and sophomore forward Alex Gaffney all had opportunities to add to the lead when the puck got loose in the RPI crease, but the Engineers iced the puck to avoid any damage. However, junior forward Sean Farrell capitalized off of the ensuing offensive zone faceoff when his cross-ice pass from below the right circle deflected off an RPI defender and past Watson, extending the Harvard lead to 2-0.
The Crimson’s offense continued to hum, with a dominant shift by the top line of Coronato, Farrell, and first-year forward Joe Miller forcing an icing from the Engineers and a timeout from RPI head coach Dave Smith. This time, Harvard failed to take advantage of the offensive zone faceoff, but the Crimson recorded another goal in the final minute of the second period to stretch its lead to 3-0. After first-year forward Marek Hejduk’s wrister rattled off the boards behind Watson, Harvard came right back into the offensive zone on the attack, and Shore found Hejduk at the backdoor to give the Crimson a 3-0 lead after 40 minutes of play.
“I think Baker’s a really important part of the team, a leader both on and off the ice,” Donato said. “Does a lot of things that maybe don't show up on the score sheet – plays against the other team's top line a lot, kills penalties, block shots, takes key faceoffs for us.”
The Crimson kept the train moving in the third period, and Farrell notched his second of the night four minutes into the period when he tipped a pass from Thrun into the back of the net to make the score 4-0. The Engineers soon made a goaltending change, with Carson Cherepak replacing Watson in net, and the freshman made a great save point blank on Laferriere soon after he entered. RPI didn’t get much going in the third period, with their one golden opportunity shut down by Foskey, who dove to cover a wide-open net after a rebound. Harvard’s seniors got one last shift together on a late power play, and when time expired, the team poured off the bench to celebrate Gibson’s 20-save shutout and the rest of the graduating class.
HARVARD 5, UNION 3
The Dutchmen entered Friday night having won six of their past eight games, with all six wins recorded against ECAC opponents. However, a diverse attack with five different goal-scorers gave the Crimson the offensive push it needed to get back in the win column.
“We expected it to be a good challenge for us and it was. I think they kept coming and we were able to make some plays, execute on power play, and we were able to get some goals throughout the lineup, which I think was really important,” Donato said. “Big goal by Phil Tresca. Big goal by Baker Shore. So I think a lot of good things.”
Only thirty-five seconds into the game, Harvard got on the board, as Gaffney scored off the rush following the game’s opening faceoff. Farinacci and sophomore defenseman Ian Moore tallied the assists, as Farinacci’s shot clipped Gaffney’s leg on its way into the goal.
The Dutchmen evened the score about four minutes later, scoring on the power play after senior defenseman Ryan Siedem was sent to the box for interference. Union’s Chaz Smedsrud finished the play, after teammate John Prokop baited Gibson to the right side of the crease before firing a cross-crease pass back to Smedsrud, who knotted the game at 1-1. Neither team scored in the remainder of the first, as Gibson recorded an additional six saves, while the offense tallied a total of 11 shots on goal.
The Crimson again found itself shorthanded early in the second period, with Siedem again serving time for interference. This time, Harvard showed the strength of its penalty-kill unit, drawing a penalty of its own to bring play to four-on-four. Having only forty seconds of true power play time after Siedem was released, the Crimson were only able to get one shot off.
However, Harvard’s power play capitalized the second time around, scoring on the man-advantage for the fourth straight game. After Dutchman Nic Petruolo was called for hooking, Farrell found the net when he pounced on the rebound of a shot by Laferriere. With the goal, Farrell recorded his team-leading 43rd point of the season.
Only 30 seconds after Farrell’s goal, first-year forward Philip Tresca added one of his own, the second goal of his career. Tresca first won the face-off following Farrell’s goal, and created a quick rush with senior linemates Wyllum Deveaux and Austin Wong. After Deveaux’s initial attempt missed, the Crimson regained control and pushed again, and Deveaux found Tresca alone in the slot for a wrist shot that gave the Crimson a 3-1 lead.
Harvard maintained the two goal advantage through the remainder of the second through shut down defense and Gibson’s strong goaltending, including neutralizing a Union power-play with only one shot on goal allowed.
Shore added to the score just under three minutes into the final frame, as the captain scored his second of the season after Hejduk found him open in the slot. Union got one back just after the midpoint of the period, as forward Owen Farris tipped teammate Cullen Ferguson’s shot into the goal. Harvard responded with another aggressive offensive push, catalyzed by a power play after Prokop was called for interference. The first power-play unit, quarterbacked by Moore, put up five shots but was ultimately neutralized by Union.
Within a minute of returning to even strength, the Dutchmen pulled goaltender Connor Murphy for a sixth attacker. The Crimson took advantage of this decision quite quickly, as Shore stopped the Union rush in the neutral zone and dished it to first-year forward Joe Miller, who hit the empty net from center ice. With the assist, Shore recorded the first multi-point game of his career.
“He's certainly very much appreciated each and every night for what he brings, and it's nice to see him have a goal and assist tonight,” Donato said. “He's got family in town for senior night weekend. So I'm happy for Baker, he’s a world class kid, tremendous leader for us.”
Harvard finished out the game with a Shore tripping penalty with just under a minute left, and the Dutchmen pulled Murphy again to create a six-on-four advantage. Union was able to convert, with Cal Mell getting on the board with 12 seconds to play, but the Dutchmen ran out of time to continue their comeback attempt.
“Tonight [we] had scoring throughout the lineup, which I think is obviously really important going down the stretch here,” Shore said. “Guys have been playing really well… throughout the whole lineup, guys have been playing their role and performing.”
The Crimson will close out the regular season with a road trip to upstate New York, taking on the St. Lawrence University Saints on Friday night before facing the Clarkson University Golden Knights in the season finale on Saturday evening.
— Staff Writer Bridget T. Sands can be reached at bridget.sands@thecrimson.com
— Staff Writer Aaron B. Shuchman can be reached at aaron.shuchman@thecrimson.com
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In a season of “sweep or be swept,” Harvard men’s volleyball has been keeping with the trend well, though not always on the victor’s side. The team left Charleston, W.V. this past weekend having lost both games 3-0, swept in their first EIVA league games of the season.
The Crimson (4-6, 0-2 EIVA) faced off against Charleston (13-0, 2-0 EIVA) at the Wehrle Innovation Center for the first and only time this regular season. As for first impressions, there have definitely been better ones. The Golden Eagles came into the weekend having never lost a single game, or even a single set so far this season. Coming out, they still haven’t.
“We were pretty surely outplayed,” head coach Brian Baise said of the weekend stretch. “They were – they are – a very good team, lots of experience, a lot of veteran players and really play all parts of the game well.”
The first game on Friday opened first with a sweet rendition of the Star Spangled Banner by Charleston’s #24, senior right-side hitter Garret Schnitker. The brief atmosphere of levity quickly vanished as the two teams went to business, Harvard grabbing their usual first point of the game before the Golden Eagles answered back.
Though initially an even back-and-forth, with a fantastic service ace from junior middle blocker Trevor Schultz even forcing Charleston to an early timeout, the latter half of the first set found the Golden Eagles with their first definitive lead of the game. A kill by none other than Schnitker put the Golden Eagles up 17-15.
In a volleyball game, the first team to get to 17 in a set tends to win the set 70% of the time. Unfortunately, the Crimson’s luck would not hold out for the 30% in this match.
The Golden Eagles ran with a four-point streak until Harvard finally called a timeout down 19-15. Though the Crimson was able to capitalize on a crucial kill by sophomore Kade McGovern to make it 19-16, the momentum was immediately nullified by McGovern’s service error. The set continued to slip away from Harvard, as handling errors, overplays, and a powerful Charleston wall denied the Crimson from the scoreboard again and again.
Down 24-17, Harvard’s brief glimpse of hope from a point nabbed by sophomore Logan Shepherd was immediately squashed by Shepherd’s service error on the very next play, giving Charleston the first set.
While bouncing back from a loss in the first set isn’t unheard of for Harvard, considering their 3-1 victory against Sacred Heart (3-5, 1-0 NEC) which had started out in the same fashion, the stakes were a little higher, and the challenge was a little tougher. The team seemed to have recognized this, as the group gave their all in the 2nd set.
Harvard grabbed their first point and broke away with a bit of a lead to start off the second. Though Charleston looked to even the field, an energized Crimson sprinted on ahead as a prolific serving streak from sophomore James Bardin culminated in three points and a service ace to open Harvard’s biggest lead of the game at 6-2.
Yet as always, the service error struck again. Though Schultz was quick to grab the point back, Charleston managed to climb back, pushing Harvard’s edge into an evenly matched back-and-forth at 10-5, with Harvard in the lead as both sides steadily swapped points.
When a flurry of Charleston errors just about looked to give the Crimson another chance to run away with the game, a timely Golden Eagle timeout paved the way for a strong kill by Schnitker.
A man that had been able to bring Harvard its sweet start to the game, Schnitker also had the ability to end it. A senior from California, Charleston’s #24 has been having a career season, totaling 96 kills and counting.
The calculated momentum swing gave Charleston the energy for another 4-0 run and cut the Harvard lead almost in half before another timeout for the visiting team was called. Though first-year Zach Berty was able to capitalize on two quick kills to maintain the lead, Charleston eventually came out with the lead after a strategic kill by Charleston’s #9, Luuk Hoge Bavel.
A sophomore from the Netherlands, Hoge Bavel is a top player, not only simply in the U.S., but internationally. The outside hitter had been a part of the Netherlands’ Junior National Volleyball Team, which had won bronze in the 2018 European Championship. Against Harvard, Hoge Bavel was a critical fixture, keeping pace with a gradually exhausting roster as the teams traded hits.
The persistence paid off for Charleston, much to the drained chagrin of the Crimson. At 25-23, Charleston won a hard-fought set off a kill that senior libero Alessio Pignatelli was not able to pick up.
If no team has been able to return from a 0-2 deficit against Harvard, it’s no surprise that the Crimson hasn’t been able to do so either. Staring down a victory condition of three straight sets to win, the third set for Harvard saw the Crimson battling themselves almost as much as they were fighting against their opponents.
Two rallies in, Schultz gave up a point to the Golden Eagles from a wide kill attempt to make it 1-1, and was substituted for sophomore Owen Fanning. The outside hitter came in at a crucial time, as service errors and overhits brought the score to an early Charleston lead at 4-2.
For a Harvard team that had been run through with two sets, Fanning brought something much needed to the court: energy and hunger. A great set-up gave Fanning a clear shot for a kill, which he took with glee, siding out Harvard back to 3-4.
“[Fanning] was on the floor for us throughout our first five matches, and it was really doing some good things,” Baise explained. “We made a couple changes, and he was out of the lineup for a couple games. He’s right there, just helps us in a lot of ways, brings a lot to the team and so when we were down for the last of it, that’s an easy substitution for us to make to see if he can bring some spark.”
While new vigor on the court kept Harvard alive, the remaining struggles from the rest of the roster didn’t seem to ease. An overdig from Bardin sent the ball flying out of bounds to give Charleston a 5-3 lead, and strong blocks stonewalled Berty twice in a row. The only relief provided to the Crimson come from the opponents: service errors from the Golden Eagles themselves.
In part, the Crimson’s experience at Charleston’s Wehrle Innovation Center could be summarized in a rally in the middle of the set. An unexpected play off Wehrle’s ceiling created an awkward bounce that sent the ball flying straight back into Crimson’s court. All but Harvard’s libero failed to react to the unfamiliar direction, and all failed to compensate as Pignatelli’s diving save was rendered futile, giving Charleston an 8-5 lead that it would hold for the rest of the match.
Fanning answered back for the unfortunate point, but an exchange of service errors, kills, and more service errors kept Harvard just behind as the teams continued to rally with vigor.
Luckily for an exhausted Crimson, a break was just around the corner. Unluckily for the team, however, was the exact nature of the break. A brutal kill by Charleston blew past the Harvard defense, but with a condition that raised more than a few objections: the net was shaking, and it appeared that Schnitker had been in it. However, there was no call on the play.
Stepping into his role as captain, Bardin came forward to check in with the officials. In a rules interpretation session that lasted almost two full intermissions, the Golden Eagles and Crimson alike milled around the net – chatting across lines – while Harvard’s captain bent over pages of paper with a courtside referee.
The call was ultimately not ruled out, awarding Charleston the point to make it 12-9. In the next play, Harvard was once again pushed out 13-9, and Bardin was substituted for senior setter Will Sorenson.
“[Sorenson] plays with a lot of energy, really smart player, really high volleyball IQ,” Baise said of the substitution choice. “Certainly thought it was worth seeing what he can bring, and if he can get some momentum going on our side.”
And get momentum he did. Harvard managed to side out early, and a sneak attack from Sorenson in the middle of the court caught the Charleston defense completely unawares, cutting the deficit to 13-11 for the Crimson.
Yet, just as the tide began to turn, Schnitker returned to keep hope just out of reach. A strategically angled kill off junior middle blocker Ethan Smith’s hand got a point for Charleston’s #9, followed by a service ace to boot. A good block from Smith answered back to keep the score within three before Schnitker returned with a powerful back-attack that pacified the scrambling Harvard defense at 21-15.
While the Golden Eagles’ wall has yet to be defeated by pure power, Crimson was able to pick up a few stray points through deliberately angled plays. However, Harvard’s defense struggled to match Charleston’s pace, as a pattern of pitting single defenders against Golden Eagle dominants continued to leave the Crimson trailing at 23-18.
A critical misplay off a serve gave Charleston match point at 18-24, though a subsequent, classic service error from the opponent only delayed the inevitable, invoking a massive groan from the home crowd.
An attack from Charleston’s Hoge Bavel, facing a lone Harvard blocker, clinched the match for the Golden Eagles at 25-19, and the first EIVA matchup for both league teams.
“They put a lot of pressure on their opponents, and we struggled to respond to that pressure, to put together any sort of points going streaks,” Baise explained of the defeat. “Our good plays tended to be pretty isolated, so it felt like we were playing catch-up.”
Unfortunately for the Crimson, storm clouds were only just brewing. If Friday was brutal, Saturday was a bloodbath; with no player-sung anthem to start off the matinee, the teams dug in fast, as McGovern seized the first point of the day only to be countered by Schnitker a play later.
A determined Harvard surged forward into an early lead, managing to even fend off a kill attempt by Schnitker early into the game with a solid block from Shepherd and Co. Yet Charleston came back strong, bringing the two into their business-as-usual, tight equilibrium.
Interestingly, Schnitker’s presence within the early set was greatly reduced in comparison to his lights-out performance the previous night, potentially attributed to a subtle change in Harvard tactics.
“We felt like we actually defended pretty well the first night. Other than [Schnitker], we did a pretty good job slowing down their offense beyond," Baise observed. “We knew [Saturday] that we had to try to do something to slow down [Schnitker], but then shifting to him, do you give the other guys a chance to play better and give them a little more space?”
This was a dangerous line to walk, and considering the Golden Eagles’ immediate shift in their offensive power vacuum, potentially a deadly one. Par for the course, a fantastic diagonal kill by Shepherd was nullified by a Harvard service error, to give Charleston a chance of their own. Not to be forgotten, Hoge Bavel breached the Harvard defense almost thrice in a row to make it 8-6.
A set by Bardin found Berty, who crushed the ball to make it 10-7, yet a triage of service errors scatters the potential momentum back to the winds. The Crimson scrambled together points on the heels of multiple fumbles from the Golden Eagles, but a quick timeout from Charleston rectified their problems while only accelerating Harvard’s.
A Cinderella run by Berty, who nabbed three points for the Crimson in a row, was quickly flushed out by an ocean of service errors and mishandlings, making it 21-17. It was the Golden Eagle show from there, as all points for either side originated from Charleston kills or errors.
A final dive from Harvard, hoping to keep the ball alive to no avail, left the first Saturday set for Charleston to take: 25-19.
25-19 was the final set on Crimson’s Friday match against the Golden Eagles, but the team on the court struggled to bear resemblance to the same hard-fought Harvard the previous night.
Just like Friday’s 2nd set, Harvard came out rolling with a 2-0 lead, marred only by a brief service error, and an incredible one-handed set by Bardin connected with Schultz for a big kill to make it 3-1. Yet as Charleston clawed their way back, Harvard’s team finally failed to maintain their past intimate equilibrium. An exchange of service errors prefacing an angle-changing Golden Eagle kill from the center caught Harvard off guard, and off the lead – which they would never regain.
Fanning was once again substituted, but the bleeding continued. A one-handed save-turned-kill by Schnitker, almost a poetic parody of Bardin’s early play, catapulted Charleston into a hot streak that even a timeout from Harvard failed to stifle. Unable to properly convert, the Crimson could only watch as the score slowly slipped from their fingers, going from 7-6 to 15-7.
“They blocked really well,” Baise evaluated. “I thought we serve received well, or serve received pretty well [Friday]. [Saturday], we didn't have a great match receiving their serves. That, against a disciplined team, and a veteran team like they are – anytime we’re running our offense from 10-15-20 feet off the net, they’re gonna make it tough for you.”
One bright spot in a devastating second period, however, saw the Crimson finally adapt to the rafter play in Wehrle Innovation Center – a play off the ceiling, handled and killed, got Harvard their first point in a long while. Yet, the losses continued to pile up, as a confident Charleston closed off a languishing Crimson 25-11.
With a prior loss from Friday night and the challenge of the deficit, the energy from Harvard going into the 3rd set was almost nonexistent, and understandably so. It would not get better.
For the first time this weekend, the Golden Eagles won the first point of the set with a kill by Hoge Bavel. With the dominant duo of Schnitker and Hoge Bavel, an iron wall of Charleston defense, and a very late timeout from the side of Harvard lending no help to the dominant state of the momentum, a joyless Crimson could only attempt to survive the onslaught.
A Sorenson substitution halfway through the set at 14-6 did little to drastically change the outcome. Aa hit off the Harvard wall by Charleston claimed the set and the sweep for the West Virginians, ending at 25-10 – the Crimson’s worst margin of the weekend.
It was a rough go for a team who had come into a weekend looking to nurture a winning streak, and a big hit on the stats page, as Harvard will enter into conference play 0-2. Luckily, Coach Baise seems confident in his team’s ability to come back from the weekend.
“Not too concerned with us bouncing back, mentally or emotionally. We’re a pretty resilient group and I think this group likes to work,” Baise said. “We’ve been really good coming back after not playing too well. We’ve so many new starters out there, and we’re such a young team that there’s gonna be some ups and downs.”
More critically, the Crimson’s match-up next weekend is against Princeton (4-8, 1-2 EIVA). Princeton also comes out of this weekend with a two-game losing streak, but that doesn’t mean they are to be underestimated – not only another league rival, but they were last year’s EIVA Champions. Crimson will need to do the hard work of facing off against another top-division team while shaking off the pressure of their current losses.
“Obviously we’re focused at this point on how we’re gonna respond to this weekend. Princeton’s really good this year, and I think it’ll be similar to Charleston, so we’ve got a lot of work to do,” Baise explained. “I think our offense will be our focus this week – why we couldn’t score this weekend, little bit of backward defense. I think we need to dig a few more of their shots and ways we can control it, and then run our offense back at them. But till we can really get our offense clicking at a good rate, we’re always going to be battling from behind against these really good teams in our league.”
Harvard will take on Princeton in back-to-back matches at Dillon Gymnasium on February 24 and February 25. In their last games of the month, the team will aim to close out February strong against their first Ivy match-up of the season.
— Staff writer Amy Dong can be reached at amy.dong@thecrimson.com
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
