05:0+,
*VTPJZ
3PNO[ZHUK:PYLUZ2P[JOLU(JJVTWSPZOLK3L[[LY[V[OL,KP[VY:P[L:LLU *SHZZPMPLKZ*YVZZ^VYK:<9-9,769;
MONDAY
H 71 L 45TUESDAY
H 71 L 48
WEDNESDAY
H 67 L 47THURSDAY
H 68 L 49.(:7,9.(3365
MONDAY
Height: 2-3 feet
Wind: 3-7 mph
Water Temp: 61 FTUESDAY
Height: 2 feet
Wind: 4-6 mph
Water Temp: 61 F
WEDNESDAY
Height: 2-4 feet
Wind: 5-10 mph 
Water Temp: 61 FTHURSDAY
Height: 5-6 feet
Wind: 1-7 mph 
Water Temp: 61 F
:762,5
“50./;>(;*/
MONDAY
WEDNESDAYTUESDAY
THURSDAY-69,*(:;
LOW
$2.75
Express Gasoline, San Diego 
8602 Lake Murray Blvd. & San Carlos Dr.
HIGH
$3.47
Chevron, Paciﬁc Beach
1575 Garnet Ave. & Ingraham St. One of the things about KSDT is that, 
since we’re students, we have a
horrible collective memory. Every four years it gets completely erased.”
MEREDITH WONG
KSDT GENERAL MANAGER
PAGE 8▶  FOCUS
Fee Increase 
Drives Students 
to LA Protest
By Kashi Khorasani
Contributing Writer
Hundreds of students have signed up to descend 
upon the UC Board of Regents meeting at UCLA this week, a final effort to protest the proposed 
32-percent student-fee increase. The regents will meet from Nov. 17 to Nov. 19 to discuss policy related to the univer-sity’s funding deficit, among other pressing items.
On Wednesday, the board is expected to 
authorize a new batch of student-fee increas-es that would raise in-state undergraduate tuition by an additional $1,391 annually, and nonresident undergraduate fees by $1,469.
A group of UCSD students, including sev-
eral A.S. Councilmembers, will shuttle to LA 
on Tuesday to join the protest. 
“I think it’s largely assumed that they’re going to pass 
the fee increases, but we have to have our voices heard at every step of the process, ” Revelle College senior and UCSD Coalition to Save Our Futures member Sam Jung said. “ At 
By Sarah Alaoui
Staff Writer
In an effort to address some of the 
health ramifications of California’s large immigrant population, the University of California launched the Center of Expertise on Migration and Health on Nov. 9 — part of its new Global Health Institute. 
The COEMH, to be located at UCSD, 
was created to examine the impact that large population movements have on both the destination country and the migrating population’s country of origin. The pro-gram will pay particular attention to conse-quences that changes in federal health-care 
policy have on California’s refugee and 
immigrant population.
“Potentially sweeping changes in federal 
health care and immigration law and poli-cies … will create an unprecedented natural laboratory for studying the effects of policy change on immigrants’ and refugees’ access to health care, propensity to seek health care, ability to pay for care... and health outcomes, ” COEMH co-director Wayne Cornelius said in a statement.
The COEMH will focus on four areas: 
behavioral and socioeconomic deter-
minants on health; health outcomes in 
migrants’ communities of origin and des-tination; children’s health; and healthcare delivery and policy.
“By bringing together social scientists, Regents are expected to vote to raise
student fees by 32 percent, expandcoverage of financial-aid plan.
University Launches Global Health Program
905.6--09,
ERIK JEPSEN /GUARDIAN
Marshall Field lit up Friday, Nov. 13 for the annual Marshallpalooza festival.See PROTEST, page 7
See HEALTH, page 7By Aprille Muscara
Associate Focus Editor<*)<+.,;*90:0:
Aone- or two-hour graveyard 
set can get lonely for a radio deejay, but at least she has her listeners. Unfortunately, the student spin doctors at KSDT 
radio don’t have that luxury.
“I know how frustrating it is working 
at the radio station when you’re doing your set, and you check the numbers and see only one or two, four people listen-ing at the most — and that was on a good day, ” said A.S. Campuswide Senator Adam Kenworthy, recalling his days as a disc jockey at KSDT, UCSD’s 41-year-old student-run radio station.
Kenworthy may just have suffered a 
shoddy time slot, but considering KSDT doesn’t currently broadcast on AM or FM, student deejays don’t have much of a chance at listenership. Without a radio signal, the indie station can’t reach the stu-dent population as easily as other college stations, said KSDT General Manager and Sixth College senior Meredith Wong.
Currently, the only place listeners can 
tune in to KSDT’s underground-only, “fiercely independent” programming is online or through the tinny speakers outside its tucked-away headquarters in the Student Center. But if a current bid to acquire an FM signal is successful, accord-ing to Wong, the station’s number of fol-lowers could reach grand new proportions.
See KSDT, page 8(
After 41 
years of live 
broadcast
from UCSD, 
student-run 
radio once 
again shoots 
for a long-
sought FM 
frequency.
(ONLINE
Read past 
coverage of the regents’ fee-increase proposal.NEW 
 WAVEKSDT’S HUNT FOR A
MONDAY , NOVEMBER 16, 2009 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG VOLUME XLII, ISSUE XVI
KICKING AND SCREAMING PAGE 16
PHILIP  RHIE/GUARDIAN2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN  MONDAY , NOVEMBER 16, 2009  NEWS
;OL<*:+ .\HYKPHU  PZ W\ISPZOLK 4VUKH`Z HUK
;O\YZKH`ZK\YPUN[OLHJHKLTPJ`LHYI`<*:+Z[\KLU[Z
HUK MVY [OL <*:+ JVTT\UP[` 9LWYVK\J[PVU VM [OPZUL^ZWHWLY PU HU` MVYT ^OL[OLY PU ^OVSL VY PU WHY[^P[OV\[ WLYTPZZPVU PZ Z[YPJ[S` WYVOPIP[LK    HSSYPNO[ZYLZLY]LK;OL
<*:+.\HYKPHU PZUV[YLZWVUZPISL
MVY [OL YL[\YU VM \UZVSPJP[LK THU\ZJYPW[Z VY HY[ ;OL]PL^Z L_WYLZZLK OLYLPU KV UV[ ULJLZZHYPS` YLWYLZLU[[OLVWPUPVUZVM[OL
<*:+.\HYKPHU [OL<UP]LYZP[`VM
*HSPMVYUPHVY(ZZVJPH[LK:[\KLU[Z;OL <*:+.\HYKPHU 
PZM\UKLKZVSLS`I`HK]LY[PZPUN3PRL4PJOHLS1VYKHU·
I\[[V[HSS`KPMMLYLU[
.LULYHS,KP[VYPHS!
editor@ucsdguardian.org
5L^Z! news1@ucsdguardian.org
-VJ\Z! features@ucsdguardian.org
/PH[\Z! hiatus@ucsdguardian.org 
6WPUPVU! opinion@ucsdguardian.org
:WVY[Z! sports@ucsdguardian.org
7OV[V! photo@ucsdguardian.org
(K]LY[PZPUN!
ads@ucsdguardian.orgPage Layout
9LaH-HYHaTHUK9LNPUH0W,TPS`2\1VUH[OHU:OHU
5HVTP:OPMMTHU;LYLZH;YPUO:PTVUL>PSZVU
4VUPJH)HJOTLPLY
4PRL4HY[PULa
(SMYLKV/=PSHUV1Y
:JV[[/PLH[[
@LSLUH(RVWPHU
+HYH)\                       
2PYI`2VV
:OH^U?\General Manager
Advertising ManagerAdvertising Art DirectorNetwork AdministratorStudent Marketing
and Events 
Advertising Representative
                                   :PTVUL>PSZVU
(S`ZZH)LYLaUHR
9LaH-HYHaTHUK
:TY\[P(YH]PUK
2LSZL`4HYY\QV
/H`SL`)PZJLNSPH4HY[PU
(UNLSH*OLU
:HYHO:TP[O
;YL]VY*V_
1HRL)SHUJ
4H[[*YVZRL`
1HUHUP:YPKOHYHU
,K^PU.VUaHSLa
(WYPSSL4\ZJHYH
1LUUH)YVNHU
*OYPZ2VRPV\ZPZ
1HUHUP:YPKOHYHU
,YPR1LWZLU
,TPS`2\
*OYPZ[PUH(\ZOHUH
7OPSPW9OPL
:HYP;OH`LY
5PJVSL;LP_LPYHEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
Copy EditorsAssociate News Editors
Opinion Editor
Sports EditorAssociate Sports Editors
Focus Editor
Associate Focus EditorAssociate Hiatus Editors
Photo Editor
Design EditorArt Editors
Web Editor
Training and Development
Business Assistant
;PMMHU`/HU
Advertising Design and Layout 
)YHUKVU*O\,]HU*VVR2PT*VVWLY
Distributors
(SHYPJ)LYT\KLa:JV[[/H]YPZPR1LUU`;>HUN
<*:+.<(9+0(569.;OL<*:+.\HYKPHU
 .PSTHU+YP]L
3H1VSSH*(  Copy Readers
(T`.\aKHY1VUH[OHU2PT4HZOH:VRVSV]
5HVTP:^LV(UP[H=LYNPZ1V`JL@LO
Web Designers
:JV[[/PLH[[7H[YPJR:[HTTLYQVOU1LUU`;>HUN
holiday airport shuttleUCSDA&PS Marketing & Communications
Holiday Airport Shuttles depart from Peterson Hall 
Wednesday, Nov. 25 and return from San Diego International Airport on Sunday, Nov. 29, 2008. 
Advance online reservations are required and can be 
made at http://yamhill.ucsd.edu/tps/shuttles/. Space is limited, so reserve your seat early.Transportation Services
Need a ride to the airport Thanksgiving weekend? UCSD 
students can ride the Holiday Airport Shuttle for FREE.
Cosponsored by
:*0,5*,AND;,*/5636.@
Research Team Pieces Together Genome Puzzle
By Connie Qian
Contributing Writer
A group of UCSD bioengineers 
announced a breakthrough on Nov. 9 
in the annotation of human genomes. They had identified a clearer frame-work of a genome’s contents — the genes and regulatory elements that define hereditary traits.
According to the researchers, their 
more comprehensive framework may assist in the creation of energy-effi-cient biofuels and new medicines.
Understanding genomes has been 
a hot topic in scientific research since the mid-1990s, when the Human Genome Project was launched in an effort to identify all genes in the human body. Despite the project’s completion in 2003, many details remained unclear due to the high complexity of the task, which involved compiling data for over 20,000 genes. 
“Genome sequences indicate 
strings of letters, but we didn’t know what they meant, ” said Byung-Kwan Cho, a lead researcher in the UCSD bioengineering department. “It’s like a secret code. To understand a genome, we have to know what those strings mean. ”
The “secret code” of a genome is 
its DNA — the genetic instructions for the development and function of an organism. Genes are composed of DNA segments containing the blue-print for the construction of other cells.
“The annotation of the DNA 
sequence of an organism is of central importance in genomic sciences, ” UCSD researcher Bernhard Palsson said. “It informs us about the location of the genes [and] their regulatory and structural elements. A DNA sequence is just a series of letters. The annota-tion gives information about what this series of letters means. ” 
Although scientists have been 
annotating genes for many years, UCSD researchers articulated the process to identify the exact makeup and location of genome components. Using tools like microwaves, sequenc-ers and mass spectronomy, research-ers identified a clearer framework for genomes and their regulatory elements.
Cho said the discovery will help 
the future of genetic research by mini-mizing the “trial and error” process scientists currently use when sequenc-ing genes. 
“Lots of people are generating data 
sets, but there is much more informa-tion in them, ” Cho said. “We have to use this information to discover something, to explain something, to understand cell or biological systems. ” 
The discovery could have major 
implications for the creation of biofu-els, like bioethanol. As natural energy sources become more costly, biofuels are considered by many scientists to be a more efficient alternative. Through synthetic biology, research-ers will be able to use the newfound information about genomes to design sources of biofuel such as microorgan-isms, plants and bacteria. 
Cho said the development could 
also one day play a role in the fight against human illness, as many diseas-es are caused by pathogenic genes that can be cured through the refinement of their genomes. 
“To make drugs, we have to know 
which gene has to be destructed by the medicine, ” Cho said. “In that case, the regulation of those genes is very important to design drugs. One medi-cine will destroy the regulations of very pathogenic genes. ”
Readers can contact Connie Qian at 
coqian@ucsd.edu.
RAGE AGAINST THE MACHINE By Philip Rhie
AS PER USUAL By Dami Lee
Clearer gene-mapping 
system could assist inbiofuel design, curing human diseases.NEWS MONDAY , NOVEMBER 16, 2009  THE UCSD GUARDIAN 3 
UDG\XFVGHGX7KH5DG\6FKRROOHYHUDJHVLWVSRVLWLRQDWWKH
QH[XVRIUHVHDUFKDQGGHYHORSPHQWWRPRYH
GLVFRYHU\WRWKHPDUNHWSODFH
<RXNQRZ8&6DQ'LHJRQRZJHWWRNQRZXVNOW WHAT?
SHUFHQWRI5DG\0%$VWXGHQWVKDYHXQGHUJUDGXDWH
GHJUHHVLQVFLHQFHWHFKQRORJ\RUHQJLQHHULQJ
0%$352*5$06$1'
81'(5*5$'8$7(&2856(63+<6,&$/
6&,(1&('(*5((Friday, Nov. 6
4:22 p.m.: Prisoner
▶ A student formerly arrested for 
stealing was caught stealing $100 in goods from the Price Center Bookstore. Arrest misdemeanor. 
5:54 p.m.: Group dist urbance
▶ A male was seen urinating off 
the stairwell at the Matthews Apartments. Will cooperate. 
Saturday, Nov. 74:09 p.m.: Suicide attempt
▶ A male, possibly dead, was seen 
with a “shotgun pointed to his head” in a Jeep parked at the Glider Port. 6:50 p.m.: Citizen assist
▶ A male reported being “stuck” 
after driving “over a yellow bar-ricade thing” at the Gilman Parking Structure.
Sunday, Nov. 8  
6:04 p.m.: Citizen contact
▶ A male reported that his wife stole 
his new Dell laptop, even though 
“she should have no access to it. ” 
Monday, Nov. 9
1:57 p.m.: Missing person at risk
▶ An 18-year-old male student with 
a mohawk went missing after stating that he “was depressed and needed psychological help. ” 7:49 p.m.: Assault with weapon
▶ An intoxicated transient male 
wearing a camouflage sweater threat-ened police officers with “weapons” at the La Jolla Playhouse, claiming there were “two men with guns” on the soccer field.8:04 p.m.: Suspicious person
▶ A balding, white 60-year-old male 
with a long beard was seen bathing in the restroom at Galbraith Hall. Unable to locate . 
Tuesday, Nov. 108:59 a.m.: Suspicious person
▶ A white male wearing a gray 
backpack was reported as “shouting [that] the world is going to end” to people at a shuttle stop on Lebon Dr.9:44 a.m.: Suspicious person
▶ A 200-pound black male was 
reported as “harassing people” at a bus stop on Gilman Drive. Gone on 
arrival.10:29 a.m.: Suspicious vehicle
▶ A white male in his late 60s  wear-
ing a melon-colored shirt was seen “sitting in his car” for an unknown period of time. Unable to locate .
4:36 p.m.: Medical aid
▶ A 24-year-old female “passed out” 
and “started having seizures” during an exercise class at Galbraith Hall. 
Wednesday, Nov. 11
12:28 a.m.: Noise disturbance
▶ A Marshall College student forgot 
to turn her music off before leaving her suite. 2:10 p.m.: Assist other agency
▶ A balding white male in his 30s  
was reported as “throwing items around and threatening staff ” at the Venter Center on Science Center Dr.11:22 p.m.: Suspicious person
▶ An Asian female was seen “laying 
on the counter” at Jamba Juice. 
Thursday, Nov. 12
8:21 a.m.: Suspicious package
▶ A suspicious package shaped “like 
a tennis ball” was seen under a bush at Urey Hall. 10:51 a.m.: Grand theft
▶ A computer was stolen from the 
Biomedical Sciences Building.12:05 p.m.: Suspicious person
▶ A white male in his 20s with light 
red hair claimed he was “going to steal [a] laptop” while riding the UCSD shuttle. 4:44 p.m.: Welfare check
▶ A barefoot female with long blonde 
hair was seen alone and “lying in a fetal position” at Osler St.
— Compiled by Sonia Minden
Senior Staff WriterLIGHTS  AND SIRENS
3<5*/)9,(2
YVONNE  HEANEY /GUARDIAN
Construction workers take a recess from working on RIMAC Field, where a new softball diamond has been in the works for several months.
>(32;/,>(32
ANDREW  OH/GUARDIAN
Slacklining students have become a semipermanent fixture on the lawn separating the Price Center fountain from Library Walk.OUT OF CONTEXT
Everyone should just
shut up.”
ROBERT GATES
U.S. SECRETARY OF DEFENSE“4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG/OPINION7816176
+76<)+<<0--,1<7:" opinion@ucsdguardian.orgMONDAY , NOVEMBER 16, 2009
DO YOU THINK FEE-HIKE  
PROTESTS HAVE INFLUENCED EXECUTIVE DECISIONS?
 
VOTE ONLINE.
√  Yes
√  No
√  I don’t know
Afghanistan’s presidential runoff election was originally scheduled for Nov. 7, but challenger Abdullah Abdullah dropped out of  the race because he was 
convinced that the Afghan government had manipulated the results. In response, the government rushed to extend Hamid Karzai’s p residency. President 
Barack Obama’s support of Karzai’s extended term calls into question his goals for the nation — and may discourage lasting Afgh an democracy.
The U.S. government’s stance on 
the recent presidential election in 
Afghanistan between Hamid Karzai and Abdullah Abdullah could easily delegitimize the Afghan democratic process.
When the people of Afghanistan origi-
nally voted on Aug. 20, Karzai was instantly announced the winner, and the U.S. gov-ernment applauded his re-election. But as evidence surfaced that the election results had been tainted by governmental fraud, the Obama administration changed its stand-point and pushed for a second election. 
However, after the runoff, Obama still 
praised Karzai’s re-election as a success. This sudden attitude shift and his support for such a sketchy election arouse suspicion as to whether Obama just wants to maximize American influence like all the past politi-cians he’s criticized, and cheapens the world’s perception of Middle-Eastern democracy. 
Other leaders and media outlets around 
the world have taken a critical stance on the election. The  New York Times ques-
tioned whether the democratic process in Afghanistan could proceed at all, consid-
ering a fair election was never truly held. 
British Prime Minister Gordon Brown criticized Karzai as an obstacle rather than a solution to Afghanistan’s corruption.
If the U.S. wants to promote democracy, 
it must stick to unwavering ideals. And if the Western world stops caring about freedom in Afghanistan, the people of Afghanistan will have little democracy left to cling to.Once Abdullah dropped out of the race, the choice to declare Hamid Karzai pres-
ident was necessary to Afghanistan’s progress.
A single-candidate election would have 
been a mere formality. Whether or not there was a consensus that Karzai was the best can-didate for the job, he would have remained president regardless of the outcome of such an election.
The onset of Afghanistan’s harsh winter — 
which often complicates communication and traveling — and the Taliban’s threat of vio-lence against polling places made holding the election problematic to begin with. Its cancel-lation came as a relief to election organizers.
On Nov. 10, the U.N. General Assembly 
deemed Karzai’s victory legitimate. The U.N. accepted that Afghanistan still has obstacles on the road to democracy, but that Afghan authorities are now working hard to ensure a fair process. Obama’s support, as well, may just be just the push the Afghan democracy needs to secure future credibility.
With the tumultuous election settled and a 
stable Afghan administration in place, Obama can finally move forward with his declaration 
to deploy more troops. He’s currently con-
sidering sending about 30,000 more troops to Afghanistan, who he hopes can bring new order to the unstable region. Obama ulti-mately wants to see an Afghan government that can control internal conflict and terror-ism — and the U.S. government’s support of the election results (questionable or not) may help push the country in that direction.Obama’s congratulation of Hamid Karzai on his reelection indicates a very real 
possibility of ulterior motives linked to his upcoming deployment of additional troops.
It is widely assumed that Karzai, 
who is currently serving his fifth year as Afghanistan’s president, was hand-picked by the United States. The Afghan president expressed his close relationship with the U.S. in a 2008 interview when he said, “If I am called a puppet because we are grateful to America, then let that be my nickname. ” 
Y et the resignation of Matthew Hoh, the 
top U.S. official in the Zabul province of east-ern Afghanistan in September, demonstrated that even government higher-ups have grown weary of the war. “My resignation is based not upon how we are pursuing this war, but why and to what end, ” Hoh said in a statement.
One possible reason to continue the 
Afghan occupation may be to get a hand on the virtually untapped oil and natural gas reserves. It is not uncommon for a nation to back a leader militarily in order to secure a self-indulgent deal. Karzai will make it hap-pen, and the U.S. could provide troops in 
exchange for cheaper resources.
But convenient as negotiating with a 
president who’s willing to comply with our 
every request may be, that leader isn’t worth much if he’s not popularly elected — and for that to happen, serious reform is called for in Afghanistan’s electoral system.
— Arik Burakovsky
Contributing WriterQUICK TAKES
7JIUI¼[-VLWZ[MUMV\+W]TL
+PMIXMV\PM,MUWKZI\QK8ZWKM[[3IZbIQ¼[;MK]ZML8ZM[QLMVKa1[I\4MI[\I;\MX<W_IZL;\IJQTQ\a -IOMZ=;;]XXWZ\NWZ3IZbIQ:MMS[WN0QLLMV)OMVLI5ISM4QSM/ZIVLUIIVL<W[[\PM+WWSJWWS
For most of us, the holiday sea-
son provides ample opportunity to throw all calorie-counting 
inhibitions into the gusts of winter wind and gorge ourselves shamelessly.
But in my family, a string of 
birthdays kicks off the holiday season early. This past Friday, my dad came into town from Singapore to celebrate his 52nd birthday with us, and we decided to throw a reunion potluck. Always starved for column inspira-tion, I jumped on this opportunity for culinary/literary greatness. 
The potluck’s theme was Indian, 
and to contribute, I’ d have to take a 
step out of my formulaic comfort zone 
to bust out more challenging, Emeril-esque ethnic cuisine.
Naturally, I sought my grandmoth-
er’s assistance. My dish of choice had to accommodate the vegetarians in the family and yet stay simple enough for my novice (though slowly expand-ing) cooking capacity. 
Accordingly, Grandma suggested a 
curry called vegetable makanwala  — a 
collection of onions, carrots, green 
beans, cauliflower and peas mixed with an Indian cottage cheese called paneer 
(which can be found at most international markets), simmered in a rich, milk-based curry.
With the flash 
of a knife, I filled six cups with diced onions, carrots, green beans and cauliflower. I then sauteed the onions in vegetable oil until they browned, adding the carrots, green beans, cauli-flower and peas at two-minute inter-vals (in that precise order, to ensure each vegetable would cook to its ideal texture — bendable, but not soggy). 
Once the veggies were cooked, 
I added a few pinches of curry and chili powder (an old pro, Grandma bypassed the measuring spoon), instantly releasing a pungent aroma as it hit the veggies. After adding the chili, I poured two cups of water in the mix and let it simmer for five minutes. 
Now that things were really sim-
mering, I created a thick milky solu-tion by stirring two teaspoons of rice flower into two cups of milk, and —  after five minutes had passed — I added the flour-thickened milk. I then stirred in the collection of spicy veggies, turned down the burner for a slow boil, added the paneer — and it 
was ready to serve.
My next undertaking was one of 
Dad’s favorite desserts: a rice-pudding relative called kheer . Making the stuff 
from scratch can be an excruciatingly long affair, so my grandmother taught me a much easier shortcut, which she learned from her best friend in col-lege. The recipe required one cup of pohe  (flattened Indian rice flakes that 
can be found at most international markets), one cup of water, five cups of milk, one cup of sugar, one can of evaporated milk and a few pinches of 
saffron and cardamom. 
The first step was to fry the pohe  
in some teaspoons of vegetable oil 
See KITCHEN page 5  Kitchen 
    Accomplished
VISHAL NATARAJAN
vnataraj@ucsd.edu
d
ONLINE
Ready to take 
on the spice rack for a more ethnic ﬂare? Get Vishal’s recipe in full. 1\¼[)TTQV7]Z0MIL[
ON CAMPUS  — In such a technology-driven age, it’s hard 
to imagine what we can’t get with the push of a button — 
including, thanks to UCSD podcasts, the surround-sound lecture experience. The only crimp in the lecture-from-home concept is that, sadly, Academic Computing Services hasn’t yet convinced roughly four out of every five Center Hall professors that they should utilize the service. But when large classes are held in podcas t-ready lecture halls, there’s 
no excuse not to use the technology we’ve already paid for.
The decision to podcast or not to podcast is left entire-ly up to the professor, many of whom choose not to do so. Of all the classes in Center Hall that could be recorded, only 20 percent of them are actually podcasted.
The relatively new program, which saw its first instal-
lations on campus in 2006 and launched its first year of full-fledged broadcasting in 2007, allows students to listen in on their professors from the comfort of their sofa dents. In some cases (where a camera-to-computer hookup can ILLUSTRATIONS  BY YUIKO SUGINO/G UARDIAN
See PODCASTS page 11,M[XQ\MXZWNM[[WZ[¼KWVKMZV[\PI\XWLKI[\[KW]TLINNMK\TMK\]ZM I\\MVLIVKM[\]LMV\XWTT[[]OOM[\
W\PMZ_Q[M<PQ[LQOQ\ITXMZSLWM[V¼\LM[MZ^M\PM»WNN¼[_Q\KP *a0IaTMa*Q[KMOTQI5IZ\QV
8ZM[QLMV\QIT-TMK\QWVQV)NOPIVQ[\IVOPINION MONDAY , NOVEMBER 16, 2009  THE UCSD GUARDIAN 5 
  	

	


	 	
	
 !
"#$
%$$&'(
()% "#
$$&%*
)#+"&*
%"$
+&#
%'
("# $
$+,-%$$
.,/%0
$&%'
#.#

.1*2'
&%
3,
	##4)

%

#)	
#)%
)&&
()%
&
&%
% 
).)%
56)

&

,7-
3 
&
&
"%&&
8
)5	,
"8)
8) 
9,%
8)
%%)%
# "
&
8) **%&
)&)&&
5)#*
&*

)%*
%':'#
56)
&)# 

,7-+&

"
&+&"

.)#
,6)%A DROP FROM THE INKWELL By Priscilla Lázaro
Dear Editor,
With the return of the CalPIRG 
pledge patrol to Library Walk, some 
will undoubtedly be avoiding the battlefield. It seems a stark contrast to the pledging of a few weeks prior. I’ve gone through this for the past three years, and the CalPIRG pledge patrol litters the sidewalks like mines. And I, for one, think them all the more important for their obtrusiveness.
How many people can you 
say actively stick up for you? How many of them are strangers? Maybe I’m an exception, but there aren’t many strangers I know that are willing to look after my interests. And, as a college student, I need all the help I can get between buying $150 textbooks updated with “new” material. I just want rest, so who has time to fight all these battles over textbooks and tuition? 
CalPIRG does.To their eternal credit, they have 
enough minions looking out for people to actually produce results. Last year we saw the passage of Proposition 1A, a measure which green lighted a high-speed rail line from San Francisco to Los Angeles — one that will be vital in alleviating transit stress on the student population from both the UC campuses and those in the CSU system. What makes this so astounding is that it was passed in the face of a major financial crisis. CalPIRG, among others, fought hard in Sacramento, because students and other Californians needed an efficient means between Northern and Southern California. They went through all of that trouble, all of those hours of work, for others. Say you want to protest anything 
(liberal or conservative). What can you do as a UCSD student? Where do you go? Y ou could protest on campus, which, under the best possible conditions, would convince several students to your cause, but it wouldn’t be visible to lawmakers. We can neither be in Washington DC nor in Sacramento, but we can want to make a difference, to make our individual lives as students better. I may not be able to do it, but CalPIRG can. At the beginning of every quarter, my books drain me of what little I was able to save during the immediate holiday. CalPIRG has already acted on this problem by building support amongst faculty and departments to accept lower-cost textbooks. Would I — or could I — get that sort of assistance from a frat or almost anyone else? 
No. For this reason, I want to urge 
my fellow students to talk to those people with clipboards. They will, for the next week, haunt Library Walk regardless, but by talking to them you have that much more control in guiding them to help you. Because at the end of the day, they wouldn’t be on the sidewalk talking to people about volunteering or helping if they didn’t believe it would help.  
 — Dorin Smith
Senior, Revelle College
CalPIRG member
LETTER  TO THE  EDITOR
▶ The Guardian  welcomes letters from its readers. 
All letters must be no longer than 500 words, 
typed, double-spaced and signed with a name and applicable title. Letters must also contain a phone number. We reserve the right to edit for length and clarity. Letters may be dropped off at the Guardian  
office on the second floor of the Student Center or e-mailed. Send all letters to:
The UCSD Guardian
Opinion Editor
9500 Gilman Dr. 0316
La Jolla, CA 92093-0316 
e-mail: 
opinion@ucsdguardian.org+IT81:/¼[8W_MZQV
6]UJMZ[5MIV[8ZWOZM[[
and butter. Once the pohe  turned a 
creamy white, I added a cup of water, 
let it simmer for a few more minutes (while stirring) and slowly poured in the five cups of milk to keep it from curdling. 
After some 15 minutes of periodic 
stirring, the milk had condensed to about half its original volume. I added a can of evaporated milk, a cup of sugar and a pinch of saffron and ground cardamom to finish it off. 
The result was a thick, milky 
delight — topped off with a few sliced almonds for presentation points.
My family’s snarky reception to 
the dishes — as evidenced by my uncle’s fake dry heave upon tast-ing the first bite — suggested their approval in a perverse, sarcastic way that characterizes most of our interac-tions. I knew from the beginning that my tasters would be a rough crowd, but the speed at which the dinner was devoured led me to believe they might have genuinely enjoyed it. 
My dad, who had no previous 
knowledge of my culinary endeavors, even told me that my kitchen skills put his own to shame — which, given the fact that his are nonexistent, could’ve been a back-handed compli-ment, had his trip to the kitchen for seconds not suggested otherwise.
Aside from the obvious satisfac-tion of seeing my dishes go over well with my toughest critics, the experi-ence also made me realize I could kill a yearly holiday problem with the same stone: gift-giving. 
With just a few months’ cooking 
practice, I’ve uncovered the solution to my poor present-purchasing skills. Those excruciating 30 minutes it takes to park at the mall during the peak holiday hours could be much more efficiently spent baking up a storm — because if there’s one thing more endearing than a Hallmark card with a couple bills slipped in it (which I’ve been known for the past few years) it’s an oven-fresh batch of chocolate-chip cookies.
<PQ[+PZQ[\UI[?ZIXAW]Z8ZM[MV\[QV8aZM`
▶ KITCHEN, MYVTWHNL6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN  MONDAY , NOVEMBER 16, 2009  NEWS
NEWS MONDAY , NOVEMBER 16, 2009  THE UCSD GUARDIAN 7 
this point in time, we’re going to 
voice our opinion and vote ‘No’ on the fee increases to send a message to the state to fund public education the way it was funded 10, 15 years ago. Of course, there is a possibility that the students can change the vote of the regents, but we’re going into it with the mindset that they’re prob-ably going to pass it. ”
Councilmembers are organizing 
bus rides to UCLA for students inter-ested in joining the protest. About 200 students from across the UC system are expected to protest at UCLA and participate in the public-comment period. 
“We’re going to step up our lobby-
ing efforts and really go after in-dis-trict legislators, and really press the gubernatorial candidates on the issue of higher education, ” Jung said. “It’s going beyond just the regents and really focusing on the state, where the power to change is going to be. ”
As of Sunday evening, e-mails 
sent out by the Coalition to Save Our Futures — the student organi-zation  coordinating UCSD’s leg of the trip — still contained the wrong date on which the regents would begin voting.
In May 2009, the regents 
approved a 10-percent system-wide Education Fee increase and a 4.2-percent Registration Fee increase, which went into effect by Summer Session I. The Regents also approved an additional 10-percent increase in nonresident tuition for undergraduate students, which took effect this quarter.
On Nov. 18, the regents are 
expected to approve a midyear fee increase of roughly 15 percent for both UC undergraduate and gradu-ate professional students — along with a 2.6 percent increase for grad-uate academic students — effective Winter Quarter 2010, along with another systemwide fee increase of roughly 15 percent, effective sum-mer 2010 for all students. 
Alongside the fee increases, the 
regents will consider an expansion of the Blue and Gold Opportunity Plan, which would grant about 800 more students full financial-aid coverage. The program current-ly covers the systemwide fees of California resident students with family incomes of under $60,000. The latest proposal, initiated by UC President Mark G. Yudof, would raise the income ceiling to $70,000.
fHowever, Jung said the finan-
cial-aid proposal is designed pri-marily to ease student concerns about the fee increases.
“They always come out with a 
plan like that when they raise fees to appease public opinion, ” he said.
Eleanor Roosevelt College fresh-
man Tuhina Srivastava said she agrees with Jung, claiming that the program’s expansion will not make up for the fee increases.
“The Blue and Gold Opportunity 
Plan is a lofty and noble goal, but it’s just not conducive to the current UC budget crisis, ” Srivastava said in an e-mail.  “In conjunction with the midyear fee increases, the plan doesn’t directly mitigate the impact of the budget deficit.  Instead, it just seems to reapportion funds, not actually solving any problems and certainly not making much dif-ference compared to the imminent 32-percent fee increase. ”
Readers can contact Kashi Khorasani 
at kkhorasa@ucsd.edu.Revamped Blue and Gold Plan to 
Cover Approx. 800 More Students
4
Expires 12/16/09 
The Master of Arts in Investor Relations
The Investor Relations program at the University of San Francisco is the only full 
graduate program of its kind in the United States. Designed to prepare students for a career as the public face of a company, students gain a strong foundation of financial knowledge with sophisticated public relations skills. Students develop 
expertise in being an effective communic ator for a company to individual inves-
tors, investment professionals, and regulators.
Other Arts and Sciences Master’s Programs:
Asia Pacific Studies + Biology + Chemistry + Computer Science
Economics + Environmental Management + Financial Analysis
International and Development Economics + International Studies
Risk Management + Sports Management + Web Science + Writing (MFA)
Details?
Call 415.422.5101 or email asgraduate@usfca.edu
Application/Information Packet?
www.usfca.edu/grad/requestinfo
Visit these programs at:  www.usfca.edu/asgradPURSUE YOUR
  Master’s Degree
Educating Minds and Hearts to Change The World
Need to unwind?
Stop by the Hump at the original Student Center
This Wednesday from 12 - 1pm. 
Free ACRO YOGA Demo & Chair Massage!
Presented by UCSD Recreation Fit Life. 
universitycenters.ucsd.edu
Price Center East
OPEN 24 HOURS!
Sunday – Thursday
universitycenters.ucsd.eduWhen the library closes, hop on over to Price Center East for 
 HOUR STUDY LOUNGES s #OMPUTER LABS s 'ROUP STUDY ROOMS AND LATE NIGHT EATS
Open until 1 am Sunday - Thursday
10am - 12pm Friday12pm - 12am SaturdayOpen until 11pm 
Sunday - Thursday
7am - 9pm Friday
9am - 7pm SaturdayOpen 24 hours 
Sunday – Thursday
7am - 2:30 am 
Friday & SaturdayNew Health 
Center to Focus 
on Migration
public-health specialists and medi-
cal practitioners, we can respond more effectively to the health-care needs of California’s immigrant and refugee populations, and help poli-cymakers anticipate future needs for health care in these communities, ” Cornelius said.
The Global Health Institute runs 
two other programs in addition to UCSD’s Migration Center. One Health: Water, Animals, Food and Safety — led by UC Riverside and UC Davis — encompasses ecology, envi-ronmental health, veterinary medi-cine and agriculture. Women’s Health and Empowerment is led by UC San Francisco and UCLA. 
The institute’s first educational 
track will be a one-year master’s program in global health, followed by two-year master’s and doctoral programs. Rather than being offered at a specific university or center of expertise, this  graduate program will be available to students at any UC campus.
“We also anticipate that a num-
ber of schools will be launching new certificate programs and under-graduate minors focused on spe-cific areas of expertise that revolve around the centers of expertise, ” COEMH co-director Steffanie Strathdee said.
The chief source of funding for 
the Global Health Institute is the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, which provided $4 million in startup funds for the program.
Readers can contact Sarah Alaoui at 
salaoui@ucsd.edu.▶ PROTEST, MYVTWHNL
▶ HEALTH, MYVTWHNL
:MXWZ\?ZQ\M/M\8IQL
6-?;:-87:<-:;?)6<-,
.QVLIXXTQKI\QWV[WVTQVMI\
___]K[LO]IZLQIVWZOWWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG/FOCUS
1967: The KSDT seed is planted. Students 
broadcast a low-power signal fr
om a 
garage in Pacific Beach.
June 1968: The low-budget operation 
moves to campus. KSD
T programming is 
piped into the dorms via AM carrier
current and FM cable.
1972: KSDT submits FCC application for 
a construction permit t
o build an FM 
Noncommercial Education station, which 
is subsequently denied.
1974: Petition submitted to FCC
challenging broadcasting license of KDIG
 
98.1 FM (now KIFM), which is
subsequently dropped.
1975: KSDT moves to the Student Center.
1987: FCC rule changes radio
regulations along U
.S.-Mexico bor
der.
1988: UCSD cuts a deal with KSDO.
1996: Telecommunications Act of 1996 
— deregulation gone wild  — allows for
 
consolidation of San Diego’s
radio market.
1996: SRTV is established as an offshoot 
of KSDT, under the umbrella of
Student Cable 
Works.
1999: KSDT Web site is overhauled;
history, back
ground and collective
memory is wiped.
1999: KSDT supposedly loses its
FM signal.
Januar
y 2000: FCC authorizes low-
power FM radio service
.
June 2, 2000: KSDT submits FCC app for 
a construction permit to build a LPF
M, 
which is subsequently denied.
Fall 2001: SRTV splits from KSDT.
Spring 2002: KSDT’s zine appears on its 
Web site; disappears within a
couple of years
.
2003: Mitre Corporation study finds no 
significant interf
erence from
LPFM signals.
Summer 2005: KSDT forced to change 
its Web sit
e and go off-air for a few 
months, losing many Internet listeners.
2006-2007: KSDT operations shut down 
due to Student Center construc
tion, 
resulting in massive personnel loss.
November 2009: Local Community 
Radio Act of 2009 (r
eincarnation of the 
2005 and 2007 versions) awaiting vote, 
which would lift restrictions
on LPFM licensing.
Feb 19-26, 2010: FCC filing window for 
FM Noncommercial Education stations 
open, becoming KSD
T’s next target.“We’ve been broadcasting online for a number of years, and 
we’re pretty happy with that, ” said Wong. “It suits us pretty well. 
But to expand as a student service, we really want to get an FM signal. A lot of it is about making the KSDT station more of an integral part of the community, and to be here more for the UCSD community as a whole. ”
Since KSDT’s launch at UCSD as an AM radio station in June 
1968, acquiring an FM frequency has been a consistent — yet elu-sive — goal for the rotating deejay lineup.
Just don’t ask any of the station’s current members about its 
history.
“One of the things about KSDT is that since we’re students, we 
have a horrible collective memory, ” said Wong. “Every four years, it gets completely erased. ”
Kenworthy said he thinks it’s more like two.As a result of the university’s revolving door, the institutional 
memory passed down to KSDT’s current generation is a distorted one, built upon myth and misunderstanding.
SELECTIVE MEMORY
If you ask Kenworthy, Wong, or any other current/recent 
KSDT st
aff member, they’ll tell you the station used to have its 
own FM frequency. Supposedly, KSDT lost its signal in 1999, 
when the A.S. Council cut the organization’s funding after it vio-lated the drug and alcohol policy. Because of this loss, the station had to sell its radio tower, which used to be located where the Price Center ATMs currently reside.
But this is just one theory. According to Wong, there is an 
entire rumor mill of alternative accounts.
In truth, KSDT was never its own FM station. No record exists 
— in the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) archives or elsewhere — of KSDT ever being broadcast over a radio tower or terrestrial FM signal. 
One look at the archived pages of KSDT’s own Web site 
(accessed via the WayBackMachine — a nonprofit virtual library that saves old versions of Web sites), and it’s apparent the radio station has long felt the difficulty of achieving long-term goals in a four-year university setting. 
According to these accounts, KSDT originated in 1967 in 
a Pacific Beach garage, where a group of students broadcast tunes using a low-power signal. With the help of then-Assistant Dean of Student Affairs Robert Topolovac, KSDT founders Don Bright and Jon Collins were awarded funding to establish a col-lege radio station on UCSD.
News of its creation ran in the founding issue of the 
Guardian ’s predecessor, the Triton Times , on May 26, 1967, 
announcing plans to wire student programming into the Revelle College dorms — the only on-campus housing in existence at the time.
In 1968, KSDT set up on-campus shop in an old military 
building made out of corrugated steel. The station used the uni-versity’s electrical system to broadcast on 540 AM over a sketchy carrier current — a low-power method that didn’t require an FCC license because of its limited reach. 
Maybe rumors of KSDT having its own terrestrial FM station 
stemmed from the fact it was broadcast over cable radio: For a time, the station did make it onto cable FM 95.7. (Cable radio transmits a signal through electrical wires, but does not require FCC licensing or a radio tower.)
 
GROWING PAINS
Four years after going live, KSDT made its first attempt at 
secur
ing an FM signal in 1972. The station applied for a per-
mit from the FCC that would allow it to build a radio tower to broadcast as an FM Noncommercial Educational (NCE) entity. However, the request was denied due to engineering concerns about the tower’s proposed site.
The next attempt was made in 1974, when KSDT filed a peti-
tion with the FCC that challenged commercial station KDIG — 98.1 FM — for its broadcasting license for. The petition main-tained that KDIG (now KIFM) failed to comply with its public-service responsibilities. If approved, KSDT could have applied to take over the 98.1 FM frequency.
Attempts to hijack 98.1 FM continued over the years, with 
1967 1968 1972 1974 1975 1987 1988 1996 1996 1999 1999 2000 2000 2001 2002 2003 2005 2006 2007 2009 2010TUNING IN
Student  Affairs  Robert  Topolovac , KSDT  founders  Don  
 THE UCSD GUARDIAN 8
dents
rom a
Beach.
ration 
ming is 
carrier
cable.
on for 
an FM 
which 
enied.
o FCC
f KDIG
hich is
pped.
Center .
radio
order.
KSDO.
f 1996
“We’ v
we’re pre
But to e x
signal. A 
an integ r
UCSD c o
Since 
1968, ac q
sive — go
Just d
histor y.
“One 
have a h o
it gets co
Kenw
As a r
memor y 
one, built
SELECTI V
If you
KSDT st a
own FM 
when the
lated the 
had to se
Price Ce n
But t h
entire ru m
In tr u
— in t he 
or elsew h
or terres t
One l
(accesse d
that save s
station ha
a four- ye
Acco r
a Pacific 
tunes us i
D e a no fS
1967 1968 1972 1974 1975 1987 1988 1
Dean  of S
PHILIP RHIE/GUARDIANWWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG/FOCUS
ERIK JEPSEN /GUARDIAN▶ KSDT, MYVTWHNLCHANNELINGMONDAY , NOVEMBER 16, 2009
ITS FIERCELY
INDEPENDENT MANTRA,
UCSD’S KSDT RADIO
FIGHTS TO GET 
BY APRILLE MUSCARA
ASSOCIATE FOCUS EDITOR
See FM page 10.7+=;FRIDAY MISSION VALLEYOPINION MONDAY , NOVEMBER 16, 2009  THE UCSD GUARDIAN 9 
A WEEK IN FARMERS MARKETS
SITESEENWith a year-round 70-degree climate on our side, there’s no excuse not to visit one of San Diego county’s weekly outdoor 
markets. They go beyond kettle corn and crepe stands; you’ll find quality produce sold by California farmers. What’s more, there’s one every day of the week (except for Mondays). Don’t forget your reusable totes and, of course, an empty stomach.
SUNDAY
Overtaking central San Diego on Fridays, Mission Valley’s 
farmers market is stocked with over 85 booths to satisfy any ethnic craving — including an Egyptian-iced tea stand, a 
Peruvian chocolate shack and a craftsman selling wooden African bracelets. 
If you’re feeling a little daring, you might consider sinking your 
teeth into a hot balut from the Ramona Duck Farm — the same 
boiled duck embryo (a popular snack from the Philippines) that 
was once featured on “Fear Factor. ” 
The market’s greatest perk is abundant nearby parking. It’s 
located in the East Westfield parking lot near Macy’s, where a 20-minute drive from campus yields hundreds of empty spots (something no from UCSD would know anything about). Mission Valley’s market is also situated conveniently close to Ikea, in case you’re burdened with the more corporate craving for a dirt-cheap, mass-produced shoe rack.
— Gloria Wu
Staff WriterEven though there’s a farmers market elsewhere in downtown La Jolla on Sunday mornings, Hillcrest’s weekly street fair is a refreshing change of scenery. With over 100 stalls of farm-fresh organic fruits and veggies, crafts sold by local artisans and a diverse spread of drool-worthy goodies, and a live bluegrass band, its variety is 
unmatched in San Diego. Plus, most of the midweekers flock to Normal Street on Sundays, so if you missed the heir-loom guy on Thursday, you can catch him — and a fleet of his competitors — in the lively Hillcrest venue.
Of course, popularity has its downfalls: The Sunday market is almost always overcrowded, the prices for some 
products aren’t much different from those you’ d find in a grocery store and parking is a mess. 
If possible, arrive near opening or closing. If you show up early, you up your chances of finding a nearby parking 
spot in the congested neighborhood, and you get first pick of the freshest produce (not that there’s a dearth). At the end of the day, parking loosens up again, and many vendors slash their prices in the half-hour before closing — so drag yourself out of bed at 8 a.m. or stick around ’til 2 p.m. for the best shopping experience. 
The Hillcrest market also boasts a sizable selection of nonedible fare. Y ou’ll find vintage costume jewelry, winter 
scarves, a replacement for your funky-odored book bag and a variety of flowers to bring home to wifey.
Just like the produce, prepared food is plentiful. Expect farmers-market usuals — meats on sticks, meats wrapped 
in some sort of carb, imported cheeses — and some unusuals — coconut pancakes, raw vegan meals that actually taste good, fresh ceviche and fresh pasta — not the dried supermarket stuff. 
But before you line up for a squash-blossom tamale, work the aisles for some free samples: sweet stone fruits, 
sticky persimmons, ripe guavas, homemade salsa, crusty bread and whatever else you can find. After thirty minutes of smiling politely and stuffing your face you’ll probably be good ’til dinner time.
— Aprille Muscara
Associate Focus Editor
Home to the newest farmers market in San Diego — hitting the streets a few months before Fall Quarter — Mira Mesa has quickly become a boomtown for booth fare. 
Hidden behind Mira Mesa High School at the parking lot’s east end, it’s not hard to see why business is swelling: The 
market’s a refuge for families itching to escape another Tuesday afternoon cooped up in their tract homes.
But as long as you don’t have a strong hatred for children, the market is worth a visit if only for its prime people-watching.Aside from the usual assortment of produce and pastries, Mira Mesa’s biggest draws are its crafts and ethnic cuisine. Where 
else would you find hand-knitted sweaters and freshly baked samosas rubbing shoulders (besides the Jo-Ann’s in Mumbai)?
Funnel cakes, cups of chopped fruit and all that other stuff you’ d find at other markets are surefire staples at this lot. But,  
unlike the San Diego Fair, prices aren’t inflated. 
Call up a couple friends living in the area if you decide to make a trip out to Mira Mesa — they can help you haggle over the 
tub of hummus. 
— Edwin Gonzalez
Focus Editor
Up the coast from Torrey Pines State Reserve, Del Mar’s seaside stretch of ocean-view properties makes a clutch backdrop for some leisurely grocery shopping after making the most of midday swells.
And if you’re not a surfer, then hopefully you at least like the beach — because 
the Del Mar farmers market isn’t worth the drive unless you’re killing two birds with one stone. 
The shoreside market’s hands-down best feature is its flood of seafood. On 
the right side of the market among various other food stands are rows of clams welded shut, raw shrimp, thick strips of mackerel, swordfish and red snapper.
Aside from fresh ocean goods, the market also hosts a load of adorable snacks 
(such as gourmet chocolates from Belgium, homemade jams or toffee brittle), wholesale groceries, imported pasta and hand-twisted baked goods.
Still, with a total of about 15 stands divided between two adjacent parking lots, 
the Del Mar market probably won’t tempt you to stay longer than 20 minutes. So if you decide to make the commute or take the 30-minute bus ride, convince a couple friends to kick it with you at the beach before cruising back down the coast of billionaires.
— Edwin Gonzalez
Focus Editor3960 Normal St. at Lincoln 9 a.m. -2 p.m.HILLCREST
KEVIN  WU/GUARDIAN
With over 100 stalls skirting the curbside, Hillcrest boasts San Diego’s largest farmers market.
TUESDAY MIRA MESA THURSDAY NORTH PARK
Compared to larger weekend bazaars, North Park’s mellow market is quaint and quiet, fea-turing a modest 25 stands — but at least it’s not 
crowded. Goods are typical of a midweek market (organic eats, fresh flowers, etc.), relatively limited in selection — and, of the other Thursday offerings, North Park is our closest market to campus.
If you’re looking for produce, expect to encoun-
ter more fruit than vegetables, some organics and salad-fixing basics like lettuce, avocados, tomatoes and peppers. Don’t expect to stumble upon the fresh morel mushrooms you’ll need for that recipe, but you might find a sweet trinket from the guy hawking heirlooms. Apples and peaches will soon be out of season, so stock up — and the North Park market’s yam and corn crops are just now at their height.
As a little extra motivation, the market also has 
those strawberry-stuffed, whipped cream-smothered crepes you’ve been craving all week. Like the pro-duce, all premade meals are standard farmers market fare: honey and bread, hummus and street tacos, to name a few. Y ou’ll also find customary chrysanthe-mum bouquets, sterling silver jewelry and tie-dyed handbags.
Leave your car on the street or skip the pay stand 
if you park in the CVS parking lot — you (most likely) won’t get ticketed. And definitely hit up the sambussa stand for some deep-fried dough triangles stuffed with spiced lentils, steaming beef or coconut cream cheese.
— Aprille Muscara
Associate Focus EditorWEDNESDAY OCEAN BEACH
Bright booths line Newport Avenue every Wednesday afternoon for the Ocean Beach farmers market, a tradition since 1991. This is no ordinary street fair — not surprising, considering the laid-back, sleepy sub-community in which it resides. 
The market’s vendors tend to cater to the beach hippie type, offering everything from ginger juices and feathered jew-
elry to delicious all-natural grub like curry and freshly-baked cookies. 
Along the rows of art stands lie plenty of brightly colored, swirly paintings perfect for your inner stoner. Or maybe you’ll want a water-filled glass ornament to spin gracefully in front of your window, propping a delicate 
flower toward the sun. Y ou might even just want to join the fun with a small blanket you brought from home, and stake out curbside. 
Most sidewalk squatters look like they just crawled out of an attic and scattered their findings in front of you — none of 
which have fixed prices. So bargain away, young college student — bargain away.
All in all, Ocean Beach is a microworld of the liberal, relaxed on the sidelines of a fast-paced city with savory snacks and 
acoustic improv that’s definitely worth the short trek south. 
— Kerry Fugett
Contributing Writer10510 Reagan Rd. (Mira Mesa High School) 3 p.m. - 7 p.m.
SATURDAY DEL MAR3151 University Ave. (CVS parking lot) 2 p.m. - Sunset
4900 Block of Newport (between Cable & 5 p.m. - 8 p.m.
1050 Camino Del Mar (between 10th & 11th) 1 p.m. - 4 p.m.
2028 Camino del Este (East Parking Lot) 3 p.m. - 7 p.m.
CASSIE  KOBRIN /GUARDIANPHOTOS  BY KEVIN  WU & T IMOTHY  WONG /GUARDIAN10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN  MONDAY , NOVEMBER 16, 2009  FOCUS
interest fluctuating as staff and man-
agement rotated through the deejay booth. According to KSDT’s archived history, in 1982, UC attorneys advised the station that such a petition would likely be denied — and the station finally dropped all efforts to pursue the procurement of 98.1 FM. 
The thrust to obtain an FM signal 
surfaced again in 1988, when UCSD struck an agreement with the Gannet Co., Inc. — a media company that owned local radio station KSDO, broadcasting on 1160 AM and 102.9 FM. According to an article published in the Los Angeles Times on March 3, 
1988, UCSD leased space on its power-ful Mt. Soledad transmitter tower for KSDO to strengthen its signal in the North County region.
In exchange, KSDO agreed to pay 
UCSD $18,000 a year, provide student internships and set aside an hour-long slot for UCSD programming on its sta-tions. And most importantly, KSDO pledged to help guide UCSD in the thorny process of obtaining an FM radio signal.
However, communications pro-
fessor Robert Horowitz is quoted as saying, “I’m not real optimistic. The real question is whether Gannett can convince the State Department to talk to Mexico about our getting an unused frequency that is now allocated for Mexico. ”
Today, the University of California 
continues to offer internships through the Gannet Co., Inc., and 102.9 FM — now KJQY — still broadcasts from Mt. Soledad.
But UCSD never got it’s FM radio 
station.
The barriers to establishing an FM 
station had a lot to do with San Diego’s proximity to Mexico: In addition to the horde of commercial radio stations already established on this side of the border, KSDT would have had to com-pete with stations transmitting from Mexico, ones with much less stringent airspace-protection restrictions.
Clearly, changing foreign policy for 
our college station to score an FM sig-nal was beyond the scope of the deal. After the 1996 Telecommunications Act, the San Diego market became saturated with powerful media con-glomerates, further halting KSDT’s FM-radio aspirations.
STARTING OVER
In 1999, the KSDT Web site 
underwent a n o
verhaul. Its section 
on “Why KSDT Can’t Be Picked Up 
On a Normal FM Radio” — as well as its historical section — disappeared, and with the eventual graduation of its signal-craving staff members, the station’s collective memory faded into the virtual ether, preserved only in the neglected corners of the Web.
Of course, there might just be a 
hard copy floating around somewhere in the cluttered station headquarters.
“We can probably find [the sta-
tion’s history] in our records, ” said Wong. “We have a filing cabinet full of archives from KSDT, but some of it is like — at this period of time, they put all their meeting notes in and all their deejay attendance. But then some of it is like coloring-book pages. And one of the drawers we can’t open. It’s like, wedged shut. ”
Despite a slight memory loss, the 
new millennium has brought a new FCC policy that may restore KSDT’s prospects for landing a channel.
In January 2000, the FCC estab-
lished an option for smaller stations to broadcast over Low Power FM radio (LPFM), which uses less than 100 watts of power and provides a 3.5-mile radi-us service range — ideal for reaching a tight-knit campus community.
KSDT jumped at the new broad-
casting option, applying for LPFM on June 2 of that year.
According to minutes from a 
September 13, 2000 meeting of the UC Regents Committee on Finance, the establishment of a LPFM station had the support of then-UCSD Chancellor Robert Dynes and was to be fully funded by the A.S. Council. Equipment and construction expenses were esti-mated to cost anywhere from $20,000 to $25,000, with operating costs after 
obtaining an FM sig-nal slated at $50,000 per year.
But — like 
all grasps at an airwave in KSDT’s past — the LPFM attempt was eventually foiled. In the summer 2001 issue of local newsletter Rouge Forum, former KSDT staff member and 2006 gradu-ate Michel Cazary wrote that the FCC application was denied because the station was located in an urban area 
surrounded by commercial stations.
Unfortunately for KSDT, the Radio 
Broadcasting Preservation Act had been established by December 2000 to protect existing broadcasting interests by making the requirements for estab-lishing LPFM stations more stringent.
THE NEXT EPISODE
Once again, KSDT has plans to 
build an FM radio to w
er. But this 
time, the station might actually stand 
a chance.
In 2003, independent entity the 
Mitre Corporation released a study concluding that LPFM signals cause no significant interference to full-power stations like 91.1 FM or 93.3 FM — good news for a rotating college crew with longtime FM aspirations.
As a result, the Local Community 
Radio Act has been introduced into Congress several times with the goal of lifting restrictions on LPFM station licensing. Its 2009 form — H.R. 1147 — is currently awaiting a vote. If passed, would nullify the grounds on which KSDT’s 2000 application was denied.
Also different this time around 
is KSDT’s partnership with the Intercollegiate Broadcasting System, Inc. — an organization devoted to assisting colleges and universities establish their own radio stations. According to Marshall College senior and KSDT’s self-proclaimed “exec at large” Marcus Rosario, the IBS would provide much-needed technical and legal advising services to the station.
The next chance for current KSDT 
staffers to submit an application to the FCC is Feb. 19 through Feb. 26, 2010. If approved, the station would receive a construction permit to build a LPFM radio tower to broadcast as a Noncommercial Educational station.
But with 50 pages of technical jar-
gon to muddle through, filling out this application is no simple task. 
“It’s basically a huge, fatty-looking 
tax document, ” Rosario said.
Part of the application process is 
determining whether any FM frequen-cies in the Noncommercial Educational range (88.0 FM through 99.1 FM) are even available. Rosario claims he has identified at least three open fre-quencies that are currently owned by religious organizations but don’t offer programming — which means they could be open for the taking.
Associate Vice President of Student 
Services Meredith Madnick is also involved in the search for a potential KSDT home on the airwaves. Madnick said she will be hiring an engineering consultant — probably from within the UCSD community — and has already approached Academic Computing and Media Services for consultation.
KSDT would also be required to 
find a location for the proposed radio tower. One option, Madnick said, is to construct the tower in Tijuana and broadcast to La Jolla from there — a common San Diego radio practice. Scan the stations at midnight, and you’ll be able to identify which ones transmit from across the border — just listen for the mandatory Mexican national anthem.
A more likely case would be to find 
a location at UCSD, but according to Wong, campus land is in high demand.
If the application is approved and 
the construction permit granted, the real work will likely begin. According to Rosario, KSDT would have only 18 months to erect a tower, update its equipment, hire the necessary person-nel and renovate its space. Costs for such changes could range anywhere from $10,000 to $25,000.
Lucky for KSDT, the A.S. Council 
is on board with the station’s plans and willing to draw from its reserves to foot the bill.
“This wouldn’t take away from any 
other services or orgs, ” Madnick said. “[The funding] would be taken from the mandate reserves. ”
Despite the stacks of legal papers 
and potential headaches, KSDT and A.S. Council have expressed a determi-nation to see the project through.
“We’ d model ourselves after pub-
lic radio like NPR or KCRW in LA, ” Rosario said. “They have a strict for-mat, but they still play music that isn’t found elsewhere, they still have special-interest programming, they still have public news segments. I figure we’ d have more news programs that cater to the campus as well as the greater San Diego area — and even sports, in addi-tion to music. It would be definitely way more campus-based radio. ”
Readers can contact Aprille Muscara at  
amuscara@ucsd.edu.;\]LMV\:ILQW0WXM[\W<ZIV[KMVL.WZUMZ.5.ZMY]MVKa.IQT]ZM[Q V
▶ FM, MYVTWHNL
“We have a 
ﬁling cabinet full of archives from KSDT, but some of it is like — at this period of time, they put all their meeting notes in and all their deejay at-tendance. But then some of it is like coloring-book pages.”
MEREDITH WONG
GENERAL MANAGER, 
KSDT RADIOOPINION MONDAY , NOVEMBER 16, 2009  THE UCSD GUARDIAN 11 
	
  is a ministry of La Jolla 
Christian Fellowship (www.lajollacf.org). You 
are invited to send your questions or feedback to Dr. Clay Ford at pastor_clay@lajollacf.org.	
	

PART 3 It was Spring Break at Daytona 
Beach.  I was lying on the beach, enjoying the 
sun’s rays and a happy buzz from some brew.  I 
was 20 years old, a junior at Davidson College in 
North Carolina.  A song by “The Turtles” came on the 
radio, and I laughed with joy as they crooned their tune:  “So 
happy together, how is the weather…”.  For some reason those words struck me funny.  “So happy together”, seemingly sincere words to one genuinely cared about.  Then, “how is the weather?”, which sounds so trite and shallow.  I laughed because the two swings, from apparent sincerity and depth to superficiality and triviality, typified my life.  I was living life like it was an absurd silly game, drinking and partying, living the wild l i f e ,  n o  p u r p o s e ,  n o  g o a l s .   I  w a s n ’ t  a  W i l d  L i f e  m a j o r  academically, but certainly was socially.  Suddenly, as I listened to the music, my mood changed dramatically, from contentedness with the meaninglessness of my life, to alarm about the same.  It was an awakening of sorts that set me on a quest.  I made a decision that day on the beach: “There must be a meaning to life, and I intend to find it.”  
The words of Jesus came to my mind, “I am the Light of the 
world.  Whoever follows me will never walk in darkness, but will have the light of life” (John 8:12 NIV).  Those words greatly intrigued me.  Was Jesus crazy, delusional?  Was He a legend created by overzealous followers?  Or was He God in flesh, Truth incarnate, grounded in a Truth I had never experienced before?  Back at college, I signed up for a course the next semester entitled, The Life and Ministry of Jesus, taught by an agnostic.  As I read the books and the gospels, I became utterly amazed at the Person of Jesus.  Although at that time I did not believe in the reported miracles or in His resurrection from the dead, still I was drawn to Him as the most intriguing and amazing person I had ever known about.  His power, His authority – never used for His own benefit; His love and identification with the least, the last, the lost, the lonely, the “losers”;  His authenticity, genuineness, confidence in who He was and what His life was about; His teachings, His heart, His passion.  The more I read, the more excited I became.  “Jesus is amazing…Jesus is AMAZING!!!”   I became obsessed, in a positive and exciting sense, in my quest to learn all I could about Him.  I felt like a man in the desert, looking for water –and I could see what looked like a wonderful oasis.  But could it be a mirage?  I had to know – “Is Jesus Christ a mirage, or is He the REAL THING?  
It was three days into Christmas break my senior year at college.  
I had stayed over to work on a paper about Jesus.  I remember reading something like this in one book: “Jesus wasn’t saying to believe this creed or that set of ethics.  He was saying, ‘Give me your life!  Follow me, Either – Or, Yes or No, paint or get off the ladder!’”   My heart responded and I poured out all my pent up feelings and thoughts.  “Yes! Yes, Jesus – I want to follow You, I 
want to be like You.  You are my Hero…  Yes!  Yes!  Yes!”   At that 
point an amazing thing happened, something that completely changed my life.  A veil in the spiritual realm was lifted, and God’s love powerfully engulfed me.  I felt an incredible sense that I was known and cared for by an infinite, personal Spiritual Being.  “God is!  Life matters!  It has meaning!  There is a purpose for my life!”  I wept on and off for days.  Jesus revealed Himself to me, personally -- to my heart, my mind, and my spirit.
I believe that if God did that for me, He will do that for you.  If 
He loves me, He loves you.  If He created me and has a purpose for my life, He created you and has a purpose for your life.  Some believe we can create our own reality, at least in the spiritual realm, and that all our ideas and beliefs are equally valid.  But 
God either exists or He doesn’t, regardless of what you or I 
believe about it.  Let me close with a question to you:  If God 
exists, and if He reveals Himself to you in a way that is unmistakable to you, are you willing to accept Him?  If Jesus Christ is God incarnate, the hope of the world, do you want to know it and will you follow Him? 
Why Should I
believe in God?
/D-ROOD&KULVWLDQ)HOORZVKLS*HQWHU6W/D-ROODPlease join us for worship and fellowship at
6XQGD\:RUVKLSDP5HOHYDQW5HODWLRQDO5HDO
(and great food after church every Sunday!)
%LEOH6WXGLHVDP6XQGD\V	SP:HGQHVGD\V
RUODMROODFIRUJ1H[WDUWLFOH³&203(//,1*5($6216:+<<286+28/'%(/,(9(,1*2 '´PAID ADVERTISEMENT
be installed), podcasted lectures 
include a corresponding video of a professor’s PowerPoints.
When UCSD launched its podcast 
program in Fall Quarter 2007, only 42 classes participated, and since then, that figure has more than doubled to 94. Though the initial installation of recording equipment, microphones and cam-eras was quite pricey (as much as $1,500 per room), once the technol-ogy was set up, it became invaluable to over-sleep-ing and double-booked students alike.
In large classes where 
the objective is to sit qui-etly, notebook in hand, and be lectured like a good student, podcasts provide the same mini-mal intimacy as showing up. Additionally, with the mere clip of a microphone to a collar, we can have access to a perfect record of lectures throughout the quarter.
Smaller classes, however, exist 
chiefly for discussion and exchange; in those few environments where we get face-to-face time with professors and fellow students, a podcast can’t substi-tute the real thing. For this reason, the recording of lectures hasn’t taken off with everybody. Oceanography pro-fessor Nicholas Holland pledges to the idea of “teaching naked” — giving lec-tures without technological aids such as PowerPoints and, yes, podcasts. 
Holland argues that, when offered 
a glossy presentation, students tend to zone out and pay no more atten-tion than if they were watching the local news. Instead, Holland favors a more organic approach, choosing to bring in glass baking pans and fill them with jellyfish and brittle stars, to be projected up front for all to see. Eye-catchers like these, he says, will force students sit up and take notice — something that can’t be captured on a podcast.
To an extent, he’s right. But a 
two-hour lecture on the gastrointes-tinal tract doesn’t lend itself to flashy demonstrations quite as well as the crustaceans and copepods of marine science. Showstopping lectures like Holland’s are few and far between.
Most podcast-resist-
ing professors, accord-ing to Instructional Web Development Center Manager Christine Bagwell, fear students don’t get the same expe-rience from podcasts as they would from live lectures. To begin, Bagwell said, they lose the opportunity to interact with their teachers. Professors are also concerned that students might be more inclined to skip class if 
they think they can just listen in later on, andcould miss out on important lecture materials, as podcasts shut off when movies are played to avoid copyright issues.
But let’s be realistic. Students typi-
cally save more intimate questions for TA sections, and the moment a lecture hall’s lights go out and a movie comes on, half the class takes a 15-minute reprieve for a little shuteye anyway. 
A study released in October by the 
Educause Center for Applied Research showed that whether a student attend-ed class had little to do with whether or not it was podcasted. Of students polled, 64.7 percent strongly disagreed that they would be more likely to cut class if podcasts were made available. Instead, the attendance (surprise, surprise) depended on whether or not the lecturer was interesting, as did the number of podcast downloads. 
Sure, in a close-knit class where 
20 students are using their personal 
experience as a reference point for discussing the conflict between first-and second-generation immigrants, the learning experience is entirely dependent being there in person. Whether or not this is a good thing is debatable (such classroom freedom often breeds awkward silences when no one is very inclined to speak up), but it’s not an environment a podcast can recreate.
In lecture halls, however, it’s no 
wonder half the class doesn’t show up until the final. We might as well not be there. The lecturer has his or her own agenda to rush through in 50 minutes, so even if we do decide to ask a question, our desperately waving hand may go ignored way up in the nosebleed section.
There are advantages to “teaching 
naked, ” to be sure, like the more per-sonal touch that comes from replacing typed PowerPoints with hand-drawn chalkboard diagrams. But when it comes down to last-minute studying for that international business mid-term, frantically double-checking our notes on the linguistic genocide in 20th-century Spain would be far less stressful if the professor’s comments were audible at the click of a button.
Readers can contact Hayley Bisceglia-
Martin at hbiscegl@ucsd.edu.?Pa»<MIKP6ISML¼?PMVAW]¼^M/W\I5QKZWXPWVM'
▶ PODCAST, MYVTWHNL
In large classes 
where the objective is to sit quietly, notebook in hand, and be lectured like a good student, podcasts provide the same minimal intimacy as showing up.
OPINIONWRITE WHERE IT MATTERS AND GET PAID.
APPLICATIONS ONLINE ATWWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG12 THE UCSD GUARDIAN  MONDAY , NOVEMBER 16, 2009  FOCUS
CAMPUS CALENDAR Ê MONDAY , NOVEMBER 16, 2009 Ê THE UCSD GUARDIAN 13
universitycenters.ucsd.eduThis
 WeekWEEK 8
Price Center and Student Center
DiStriCt 9
tuesday, Nov. 17  
6 & 9pm • Price Center Theater
$3 Students / $5 GeneralBALtiMOrE @ CLEVELAND
Monday, Nov. 16 • 5:30pm  
Round Table Pizza • FREEMonday, Nov. 16 • 8pm • Espresso RomaCall Me  
    the BreezeFeaturing
FREE
CArtEL
tuesday, Nov. 17 • 7pm  
Porter’s Pub • FREE
DJ GRounDFlooR
Friday, n ov. 20 • 1 - 4pm  
Round Table Patio • FREEiCE AGE:  
Dawn oF  thE D inosauRs
thurs. & s at., n ov. 19 & 21  
6 & 9pm • Price Center Theater$3 Students / $5 GeneralFall hEalth & 
wEllnEss FaiR 
Wed., Nov. 18 • 11:30am - 1pm
The Hump @ Student Center • FREE
LiVE rEGGAE W / JAMAi CAN 
BBQ, RaFFlE  PRizEs & moRE  
Wednesday, Nov. 18 • 3 - 6pm  
Patio @ the Pub • NO COVErMonday Nov 16
CAREER
Graduate Study in International 
Affairs - Learn about the nature and diversity of study options and how to prepare for and apply to programs. Discover resources to help you do both and more! 2pm / Horizon Room, Career Services Center
RECREATION
District 9 - 6pm & 9pm/Price Center 
Theatre / $3 Student, $5 General
The Pub After Dark: Cartel w/ This 
Providence, The Summer Set & The Dare - 7pm / Porter’s Pub / Free
WORKSHOP
Almudena Grandes: Literature and Memory, a Writer’s Journey - The importance of the past comes alive as Almudena Grandes guides her audience on a journey through the process of becoming a writer, using the past century in Spanish history as the basis for her literary work. 6pm / Ida and Cecil Green Faculty Club / FreeTuesday Nov 17HEALTH
Gastrointestinal Cancer Education & Support Gorup  - 
11:30am / Moores Cancer CenterRECREATION  
DJ Ground Floor: The Jump Off - 2-4pm / Round Table Patio / Free
Crown City Rockers - 9pm / The 
Loft / $5 Adv, PAYC Door StudentFriday Nov 20
LECTURE
Off the Beaten Path: Violence and Politics Lecture  – This program 
examines the laws that keep women in compromised positions around the world. 1pm / Pepper Canyon HallRECREATION  
Ice Age: Dawn of Dinosaurs - 6pm 
& 9pm / Price Center Theater / $3 Student, $5 GeneralSaturday Nov 21
W eek of 11/16 - 11/22
ART
Sexual Selection: Shakespeare and Darwin Ponder Love - This collaborative adaptation of Loves Labours Lost staged as original dance theatre with Charles Darwin provides commentary on and celebrates the mating rituals of the human species. 7pm / The Arthur Wagner Theatre / $10 Student, $20 General
CAREER
Career Opportunities with the U.S. Department of State - Featuring Edward Kulakowski (Diplomat in Residence at UCLA) 11am / Horizon Room, Career Services Center
International Jobs with the 
US Government - this session 
will provide an overview of the international opportunities within the U.S. government outside the State Department. 12:15pm / Horizon Room, Career Services Center
RECREATION
International Education Week  - Join us at International 
Education Week from Nov. 16 to Nov. 20 to celebrate the benefits of international education and exchange worldwide. 
Roma Nights: Call Me the Breeze 
- 8pm / Espresso Roma / Free
Monday Night Football: 
Baltimore at Cleveland - 5:30pm / Round Table Pizza
Loch Lomond & Horse Feathers  
- 9pm / The Loft / $5 Adv, PAYC 
Student
ART
Wednesdays@7  – The concert 
series continues with a performance by UCSD faculty pianist Aleck Karis. 7pm / Conrad Prebys Concert Hall
CAREER
Seminar for International Students: Work in the USA – A panel of international alumni will speak about their experiences in obtaining employment in the United States. 12pm / Horizon Room, Career Services Center
HEALTH
Lung Cancer Patient Support Group - 11am / Moores Cancer 
Center / Free
RECREATION
International Student Festival – 
Join UCSD students from all over the glob as they bring their cultures to UCSD. 11am / Library WalkFree
Health and Wellness Fair: Unwind 
at the Hump - 11:30am-1pm / The Hump / FreeLive Reggae w/ Jamaican BBQ: The Garden - 3-6pm / Porter’s Pub / Free Wednesday Nov 18CAREER
Experience Abroad  - Come and 
hear from students who have traveled abroad through EAP or OAP . 12:30pm / Horizon Room, Career Services Center
HEALTH
Nutrition Solutions for Common Challenges During Treatment  -  
1:30pm / Moores Cancer CenterLECTURE
Remaking the Public University in the 21st Century Roundtable - 4pm / RIMAC Annex Dugout Conference Room
RECREATION
Sleep Dealer & Short Film Montage - 8pm / The Loft / $5 Adv 
Student, $8 General
Ice Age: Dawn of Dinosaurs - 6pm 
& 9pm / Price Center Theater / $3 Student, $5 GeneralThursday Nov 19
CAREER
Peace Corp Info Session  - 
Learn about the adventure of a lifetime in one of 70 countries for education, business, health, computer science, agriculture, and environmental projects. 11am / Horizon Room, Career Services Center
HEALTH
Breast Cancer Education & Support Group  - 2pm / 
Moores Cancer Center / Free
RECREATION  
Bear Garden - 2-5pm / Matthews Quad/Free
RECREATION  
Eight Blackbird - 8pm / The Loft / $5 Adv Student, $16 General
Experience Abroad  -
Nov 19 / 1 2:30pm
Career Services CenterWednesdays@7  -
Nov 18 / 7pm
Conrad Prebys Concert HallAlmudena Grandes  -
Nov 17 / 6pm
Ida and Cecil Green Faculty ClubGuardian Classifieds are placed online and are FREE for UCSD. Low cost classified placements for our print 
edition are also available to the UCSD campus and the public at   ucsdguardian.campusave.com
Guardian Classifieds are placed online and are FREE for UCSD. Low cost classified placements for our print edition are also available to the UCSD campus and the public at   
ucsdguardian.campusave.com
11/12 Level 2 Sudoku Solution
11/12 Level 3 Sudoku Solution
Find the Crossword solution in this Thursday's Classifieds Page CLASSIFIEDS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2009 14THE UCSD GUARDIAN
STUDENT  HOUSING
UTC 1bd/1bth apartment. Walk in clos-
et, balcony, in unit washer/dryer. Pets OK, parking, remodeled kitchen & bath. Pool, wifi cafe, gym. 3550 Lebon Dr. 2nd Floor. Call American Hertiage Properties at 858-695-9400. (11/19)
Mira Mesa Townhouse Condo, 3 Bdr 2 
Ba Will rent whole unit ($1800) or rooms separately ($750 for masterm $550 for others). Washer/dryer, carport, full kitch-en. Email mkligerman@san.rr.com o call (619) 993-0987 (11/23)
JOBS
Do you like yoga and want to practice at the premiere yoga studio in San Diego? Work at the front desk of the exciting new yoga center located in the village of La Jolla. The highly anticipated opening of La Jolla Yoga Center is November 14, 2009. Ten hours will allow you unlim-ited access to our over 90 classes per week with any of our 40 highly trained and inspiring teachers. We offer over 20 styles to choose from. If you want to work less than ten hours, we have an exchange program for you as well. This is a fun and supportive environment of highly motivated and inspiring indi-viduals. Email us at lajollayogacenter@yahoo.com and visit our website at lajol-layogacenter.com. 7741 Fay Avenue La Jolla, CA 92037 (11/16)
Medical, Nutrition Writers/Bloggers 
Needed HealthandFitnessTalk.com needs writers with medical, fitness or nutrition backgrounds to blog short articles about various topics. $10 to $15 per article depending on length. Contact Jeff at (925) 984-1414 or jeffon-bass4tmt@yahoo.com (11/23)
Earn Extra Money Students needed 
Solve Problems. 
Earn Cash. 
Change Lives.
Solve some of the 
world’s toughest problems  
for cash awards ranging 
from $5,000 - $1,000,000.Looking for 
a challenge 
BEYOND 
the books?
www.I NNOc ENtIvE .cOmENVR102 – GLOBAL CARBON SCIENCE 
& POLITICS:  The Road from Copenhagen
Examine global carbon science and the 
international politics of 
climate change. What effect will UN negotiations have on Copenhagen, this era’s preeminent environ-mental summit? Includes lectures, discussions,  and field sessions. Instructor John Oliver Niles is an international climate 
change scientist, policy analyst and researcher. Open to all majors: no prereqs & counts as a Group B course  for the Environmental Studies Minor.
MWF 9:00 – 9:50 a.m. 
in Warren Lecture Hall, Room 2204ENVR87 – THE GREENING OF 
MUIR COLLEGE
This freshman seminar focuses on how 
UCSD, Muir College, and San Diego County are tackling water conservation.  Working in teams, students will visit a water-recycling plant, evaluate water use at Muir (including in the residence halls and outdoor landscape), and devise more sustainable strategies for water conservation. Features a variety of brilliant presenters and is open to students from all colleges. 
Meets TUES JAN 12, 19, 26 & FEB 2
2:30 – 4:30 p.m. in H&SS 2148
Your mother’s calling: don’t let her down!
Don’t miss this 
opportunity to explore 
real-world environmental 
problems! 
CGS courses are designed to help students move beyond popularized accounts 
of gender and sexuality to understand how and why gender and sexuality are 
complex social constructions that change over time.  Plus, CGS courses may be 
applied to your college GEs, minor, or major. Looking for an 
interesting course to 
satisfy a college GE 
requirement? 
CGS 2B – Introduction to Critical Gender Studies: Gender & Institutions 
CGS 102 – Queer of Color Critique: Queer Activism and Social JusticeCGS 104 – Asian DiasporasCGS 112 – Sexuality & Nation (cross-listed with ETHN 127)
For course descriptions and scheduling info: http://cgs.ucsd.eduWINTER 2010 COURSES:Consider CRITICAL GENDER STUDIES!ASAP . Earn up to $150 per day being 
a mystery shopper. No Experience Required Call 1-800-722-4791 (11/23)
Exceptional Egg Donors Needed. $8000-
$15,000 Donors are 19-29, educated, clean genetic health history. Nicotine/Drug free, be fully committed. All Ethnicities needed. Personal support by experienced Egg Donor & reputable agency (since 1998) Excellent referenc-es. Complete information provided@ www.FertilityAlternatives.com/eggdo-nors Contact Dawn, with questions or for an application. (2/8)
CAMPUS  LIFE
VADO HD STUDENT FILM CONTEST Make a short film exclusively with Creative Labs Vado HD Pocket Cam and compete for cash, internships and prizes valued at thousands of dollars! Vote for your favorite film! WWW.VADOFILMCONTEST.COM (11/16)
SERVICES
Now open: A one of a kind yoga center in La Jolla with 90+ classes, 40 highly-trained and inspirational teachers, over 20 styles in 6,000 sq ft and three studios. FIRST CLASS FREE FOR UCSD STUDENTS, STAFF, AND PROFESSORS. 15% OFF any classes or programs after that. We also have certified yoga teacher trainings, workshops, and concerts. If you love yoga, let this be your sanctuary during your stressful day. Work-exchange also available. Any questions please email us at lajollayogacenter@yahoo.com and visit our website at lajollayogacenter.com. (11/16)
UCSD Sr Science Writer edits your work. 
Any level up to Thesis. GET IT RIGHT! gnwood@ucsd.edu (11/19)
CSU/UC applications deadline 
November30th; recommendations overdue. Siblings! distant relatives! their classmates! $200 3-hour ses-sion, safety schools, check applica-tion completeness. Ivy League. USC. Loyola/Marymount. Stanford. College Admissions Counselor richard.thomp-son@alumni.ucsd.edu thompinc@alum.calberkeley.org  (11/19)
EAST INDIAN EGG DONOR NEEDED 
Infertile couple needs the help of a North Indian or Sindhi woman. If you are between the ages of 21-29, tall, attrac-tive, physically fit and have a desire to help, please contact us. $10,000 plus all expenses Email: darlene@aper-fectmatch.com 1-800-264-8828 www.aperfectmatch.com Perfectly matching donors with families since 1998. (11/19)Now open: A one of a kind yoga center in La Jolla with 90+ classes, 40 highly-trained and inspirational teachers, over 20 styles in 6,000 sq ft and three studios. FIRST CLASS FREE FOR UCSD STUDENTS, STAFF, AND PROFESSORS. 15% OFF any classes or programs after that. We also have certified yoga teacher trainings, workshops, and concerts. If you love yoga, let this be your sanctuary during your stressful day. Work-exchange also available. Any questions please email us at lajollayogacenter@yahoo.com and visit our website at lajollayogacenter.com. (11/23)
HARLOW HAIRSALON in La Jolla -50% 
ON WEDNESDAYS ! Haircuts, styles ,colors and hi-lights are HALF price on wednesdays with a UCSD I.D. Call 858-459-0642. (11/30)
UCSD Sr Science Writer edits your work. 
Any level up to Thesis. GET IT RIGHT! gnwood@ucsd.edu (11/30)
EGG DONORS NEEDED We are seek-
ing attractive women of all ethnicities between the ages of 21-29 who are physically fit and maintaining a healthy lifestyle. $15,000 plus all expenses. If you have a desire to help an infertile family please contact us. Email: darlene@aper-fectmatch.com 1-800-264-8828 www.aperfectmatch.com Perfectly matching donors with families since 1998 (12/28)
Across
1 Spill catcher
4 Cornered9 A pump lacks one14 Sun Devils’ sch.15 Cry of innocence16 Hogwash17 Strauss’s “__ Rosenkavalier”18 Take on20 __ artery, which supplies the kidneys22 Tee-hee23 Takeoff27 Expectoration sound28 River inlet29 Bando of the 1960s-’70s Athletics32 Take up38 Like some auto engines40 Daughter of King Minos41 Takedown43 Place for a stud44 DUI’s excess45 “Make __ Away”: Sheryl Crow song48 Take in53 Big name in art glass56 Sci-fi writer Asimov57 Takeout61 Windy City transportation gp.62 Union founded by Samuel Gompers, 
for short
63 Y, sometimes64 Kenan’s TV pal65 Kirsten of “Spider-Man”66 Land formation named for its usual 
shape
67 Cannes condiment
Down
1 Unfair judgment, slangily2 “Thar she blows!”
3 Peel out4 Perspective5 Overly6 HVAC measure7 Band aid?8 Brewer’s ingredient9 Flight segment10 Very short time11 Lemieux’s milieu12 It adjoins the altar13 Rock: Pref.19 Bearded grazer21 Parting words24 Dry residue from molten liquid25 “__ a stinker?”: Bugs Bunny line26 N.C.’s capital29 Gets off the point30 First name in advice31 Bigger than med.33 “Skedaddle!”34 Birdie beater35 AK Steel Holding Corp., formerly36 __ Grande37 Marine combatants38 “Nature” author’s monogram39 Diamond stat42 Indian bread46 Colonel Sanders trademark47 Prepared to be summoned48 Light, filled pastries49 Letter-shaped fastener50 Fabi of racing51 Available from Netflix, say52 String quartet member53 River herring54 Vegan staple55 Orwell’s alma mater58 Water tester59 Barn bird60 ComprehendSPORTS MONDAY , NOVEMBER 16, 2009  THE UCSD GUARDIAN 15 
	


	
	 

  	
 
  	
 	
   

  		
  
 	
   	 

 
 
 
 !!
    	
	  		  	  	
 	 	  
 

 
	
 	   	 	

	  
	  
 
			
   	
  	
  
	 
  
	
 
 
  	 
	   ! 		 	!"
 
 
  	 
 #$  #
 $
"
 #
 	!  
 %
  	 	
 &	 '	  (

 
	 &	   

   	
	
 
	
  )	 	 	  *	 
	





			
		
		
		
	+	      	 	  		
	  		 		
  	


,
			+			

 	    !
"
#$% &'''!(' 		
 
	 	 		  	   	  	 
	
 	 
-  		 
 
		 

    )***+)),# -./012
   !   "  # 
$%"  ! & '   "
(  !  %    
 " )  !  *
	

 !"###$%& 				
 	

 	  
  
 
teams stepped up their already physi-
cal play in a final push to scratch out the winning goal. 
In the 86th minute, the Tritons gave 
their home fans more than enough to cheer about. With just minutes left on the clock, UCSD received its third corner kick of the night. 
After freshman defender Hayley 
Johnson failed to find net off the set piece, McTigue collected the loose ball and fired a hard shot to the right of the keeper, giving her team a one-goal lead that would hold for the remainder of the match. 
Johnson picked up her fourth assist 
of the season on the game-winning play, while McTigue scored her eighth  
goal of the season and saw her first career multi-goal game. 
McManus — while grateful for 
McTigue’s strong effort — was not surprised by her performance.
“She’s been like that all year, ” 
McManus said. “She’s only a sopho-more, but she’s playing like a senior. She’s leading the team up front by example. ”
UCSD finished with a 17-10 
shot advantage, though the Wildcats notched five shots on goal to the Tritons’ two. Chico State also had a 4-3 edge in corner kicks, though they proved fruitless in the face of the Triton win.
“We were really pumped up for 
the game, ” McTigue said. “We came at them hard from the beginning, and we kept the pressure on them the whole time and ran them over. “
According to McManus, despite 
compiling a 15-5-1 record on the 2009 season, the team’s youth and inex-perience has been its most consis-tent obstacle to playoff success. With Saturday’s thrilling win, the team put many of those worries to rest.
“In playoffs, the veteran teams — 
the experienced teams — are the ones that step up and win it, ” McManus said. “We definitely got off to a good start, so it’s a little confidence boost-er for us to realize that our youth doesn’t matter anymore. We were young at the beginning of the season, but when you play 20-odd games together, they’re not a young team anymore. They’ve gotten to know each other, their habits, their runs  
and what certain people do. ”
Readers can contact John Beck at  
jbeck@ucsd.edu.entire first set despite a strong 
defensive effort from the Seawolves — who stayed within a few points of their host. 
After Sonoma pulled 
within one point late in the match, UCSD called a timeout and came back firing, riding on two straight kills from Schmidt — who also nailed the set-winning kill — to give the Tritons a 25-19 victory.
In the second set, the 
Tritons stormed to an early lead. Schmidt sent down five kills, resulting in a quick 6-1 advantage. The Seawolves fought back to tie the set 8-8, but the Tritons recovered on a pair of Sonoma State errors. 
One set away from victory, UCSD’s win didn’t come easily, as Sonoma slowed the Triton attack with a resilient defense. 
With the score at 
24-22, Schmidt put away the game’s final point with another clinching kill.
The Tritons ran into 
the weekend’s most seri-ous challenge in the third set against the Seawolves, which saw eight ties and four lead changes. 
The Tritons took a 
commanding lead half-way through the set, but the Seawolf block-ers were able to close the Tritons hitting lanes, staging a late comeback to pull within one point. 
Though the Tritons were not 
quite able to put the game away 
offensively, their defense stepped up to close the match 25-23 with a set of blocks from Chen and red-shirt freshman middle blocker Julia Freidenberg.
The Tritons learned late Sunday 
night that they will face San Francisco State on Nov. 19 in the first round of the NCAA Western Regionals. UCSD swept San Francisco on Oct. 3 but dropped a four-set decision to the Gators on Nov. 6 — only their second loss of the 2009 season. Along with host Cal State San Bernardino, the 2009 West Regionals will feature Sonoma State, Cal State LA and the  univer-sity of Alaska Anchorage.
“Preparation is the same as 
always: just get back into the game and work on what we need to work on, ” Black said.
 
Readers can contact Tyler Nelson at tnelson@ucsd.edu.4I\M/WIT+MUMV\[AW]VO
;Y]IL¼[.QZ[\8TIaWNN>QK\WZa6W<ZQ\WV[)_IQ\6+))?M[\:MOQWVIT*ZIKSM\
JOHN  HANACEK /GUARDIAN
Prior to their Nov. 14 game against Humboldt State at RIMAC Arena, UCSD honored four departing Tritons — Sylvia Schmidt, Elaine Chen, Lauren Bradley 
and Karen Reis — at the annual senior night. UCSD won the game in three straight sets to wrap up the 2009 regular season with a 28-2 record (20-2 CCAA). 
more victories. ”
On the men’s side, UCSD was 
looking to avenge a loss at last year’s 
meet. The Tritons crushed Detroit Mercy 24-3, but — just like last year — fell 16-11 to the No. 9 Stanford Cardinal.
Rojales said she was pleased with 
both her individual effort and the team’s overall performance at the meet. 
“This tournament was a great 
bonding time as a team, ” Rojales said. “Playing against these schools inspires me to improve myself so that I can really step it up in the next tournament.
UCSD looks to continue its ear-
ly-season improvements at a home meet against Cal Tech and UC Irvine on Nov. 24.
“We will just focus harder, ” 
Runyan said. “This was our first tough challenge of the season for our team as a whole. In the winter we have some good competitions lined up to prepare us to close out the season well. ”
Readers can contact Yvonne Chow at 
ychow@ucsd.edu.=+;,8ZMXIZM[\W0W[\.QZ[\
0WUM5MM\WN\PM!;MI[WV▶ W. SOCCER, MYVTWHNL
▶ FENCING, MYVTWHNL▶ VOLLEYBALL, MYVTWHNL
“Preparation is the same as always: just get back into the game and work on what we need to work on.”
TOM BLACK
HEAD COACH,
WOMEN’S VOLLEYBALLSYLVIA SCHMIDT  VOLLEYBALL 
;87:<;MONDAY , NOVEMBER 16, 2009
The senior outside hitter picked up 16 kills in UCSD’s 
Nov. 14 win over the Humboldt State Lumberjacks. Schmidt’s performance brought her season total to 447, setting a new all-time single-season record for UCSD.  
+76<)+<<0--,1<7:" sports@ucsdguardian.orgWWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG/SPORTS
HOTCORNER
 CLUB SPORTS UPDATE
The UCSD dragon-boat team took first 
place at the College Championship by finishing three-tenths of a second ahead of UCLA. The finish required officials to review three frames before announcing the Tritons as victors. 16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN
By John Beck
Staff Writer
WOMEN’S SOCCER — The UCSD wom-
en’s soccer team defeated Chico State in 
a dramatic 2-1 win on Nov. 14, emerging victorious from the second round of the NCAA Division-II tournament. The  vic-
tory advanced the Tritons to the third round, setting them up for a Nov. 20 match against Cal State Dominguez Hills after the Toros defeated Cal State LA 2-1 on Nov. 15 to secure a third-round birth.
As the No. 2 seed in the West Regional, 
UCSD earned a first-round bye and hosted the Chico State Wildcats. 
Chico State, fresh off a penalty-kick 
shootout victory against defending nation-al champion Seattle Pacific University on Nov. 12, stepped into the Triton Soccer Stadium looking to walk out with another win. Though the Wildcats entered the game riding a huge wave of momentum, UCSD — having lost each of its past three matches — walked onto the pitch with a do-or-die mentality.
“Sometimes you would like to get away 
on the road and just concentrate on the game, ” head coach Brian McManus said. “Playing at home with all the distractions could have affected a young team like this. Y et they prepared properly this week. The practices have been great, and the intensity has been great. ”
It was a tough contest from the first to 
the final whistle — each team played hard-er and got more physical as the game pro-gressed. Despite a fast start by the Tritons, the Wildcats struck first, taking a 1-0 lead on a corner kick in the 23rd minute.
The Tritons responded quickly to tie 
the game. After receiving a pass from the right by freshman midfielder Jessica Wi in the 25th minute, sophomore forward Sarah McTigue sent a high shot past the Wildcat keeper to the upper left of the net, tying the match at 1-1. It was Wi’s seventh assist and McTigue’s seventh goal of the season.
“That was big, ” McManus said. “If it 
went to halftime 0-1, that would have given them such a lift. But coming back and getting a goal that quick, I think that brought their heads down a bit. ” 
After the UCSD equalizer, the match 
remained at a 1-1 stalemate through half-time. As overtime inched closer, the two By Yvonne Chow
Contributing Writer
FENCING — UCSD’s first important 
road meet of the 2009 season ended on a positive note after the team went up against tough Division-I oppo-nents on Nov. 14 at the NCAA West Invitational. Held in Palo Alto, Calif., the meet pitted the Tritons against Stanford University, Northwestern University and the University of Detroit Mercy. 
The meet turned out good results 
for the Tritons, with both the men’s and women’s squads rallying up points that will weigh heavily on rankings for the NCAA Championships next Spring. 
Looking to build off of last sea-
son’s 17th-place finish at the NCAA National Championships, the 2009 Tritons went into the meet with a positive outlook.
“We were fencing some pretty 
tough competitors, but we have great team spirit and a lot of talented people on our team, ” sophomore epee fencer Casey Gillcrist said.
Repeating their performance  at the 
NCAA Invitational last fall, the wom-en’s team defeated host Stanford with a 16-11 overall finish. Contributing to the win were senior foil fencers Alicia Trigeiro and Gillcrist, who each won two out of three bouts in their events, sabre and epee fencing, respectively. 
“We showed that, as representa-
tives of UCSD, we can put up a good fight against any team, ” senior sabre fencer Samantha Rojales said. 
Along with a narrow victory over 
Stanford, the Triton women also picked up a commanding 25-2 win over Detroit Mercy. UCSD was not able to finalize a sweep of the women’s competition, however, falling 23-4 to the No. 6 Northwestern University. 
“Our match against the 
Northwestern women was disappoint-ing, ” head coach Heidi Runyan said. “They are a great team, but we were flat. We should have pulled off a few 
By Tyler Nelson
Staff Writer
WOMEN’S VOLLEYBALL —  In the final 
weekend of the 2009 regular season, the Tritons swept a pair of victories and saw their team captain — senior outside hitter Sylvia Schmidt — break UCSD’s all-time single-season kills record before throngs of fans on senior night on Nov. 14. 
UCSD took down No. 18 Sonoma State 
on Nov. 13 before defeating the Humboldt State Lumberjacks in straight sets the fol-lowing night. With a match-high 16 kills, Schmidt brought her season total to 447, surpassing a record of 439 set by Bonnie Wilson during the 2004 season. 
Before the match on senior night, the 
Tritons honored Schmidt, setter Elaine Chen and outside hitters Karen Reis and 
Lauren Bradley — who together notched a 
combined 38 kills to sweep Humboldt State.
The win marked the last regular-season 
game for the Tritons before playoffs get underway on Nov. 19.“That’s the joy of coaching, ” head coach 
Tom Black said. “Y ou only get four years with these girls, and there are a lot of great moments, a lot of really hard moments, but in the end it’s definitely worth it. ”
During the first set against the Sonoma 
State Seawolves, the Tritons were in control from the beginning — and never let go. UCSD scored eight of the first eleven points and led by as many as nine points through-out the set, never allowing the Lumberjacks to pull within five points of the Triton lead. UCSD closed out the first set at 25-17 after 
a kill from junior middle blocker Cara 
Simonsen.
In the second set, the Lumberjacks 
played stronger, but not strong enough to pull ahead of the Tritons. After staying close to their opponents for the first half the set, the UCSD women went on a 5-1 run to take a 17-11 lead. 
It was a lead the Tritons would never 
give up, and an ace from Chen finalized the 
25-19 victory.
Building off their second set-efforts, the 
Lumberjacks gave UCSD its first solid chal-
lenge of the evening — up until the Tritons scored seven straight points to open the set 15-8. 
The Humboldt blockers later proved 
to be a challenge for the Tritons, register-ing 13 blocks against UCSD. But with dominant senior play from the Tritons, the Lumberjacks couldn’t get enough of an edge to rival the attack. 
Bradley and Reis notched the final kills 
of the night as UCSD took the set — and match — with a 25-20 victory.
“Well, I’m just looking at the posi-
tives, ” Schmidt said. “I’m happy to have this opportunity to play with all my teammates. We just want to have fun out there, and really are a team as much as possible. It’s not about the scoreboard; it’s about who I’m playing with. ”
Black said the senior night game was a 
fitting end to the regular season.
“It’s always bittersweet, ” Black said. 
“Y ou’re really going to miss them, but I’m really glad to be able to win in three, and they did a really good job. But we still got a lot of volleyball left in the playoffs. ”
On Friday night, the Tritons defeated 
Sonoma State in three sets. Schmidt notched another 23 kills to help guide UCSD to its 23rd consecutive win at RIMAC Arena.
“We have great coaches and a great 
group of girls here, working really hard, ” 
Schmidt said. “It’s a definite team sport. 
The passing is great and the setting is great, and it’s really a team effort. ”
The Tritons held the lead through the CLUTCH GOAL VAULTS UCSD TO THIRD ROUND.MVKMZ[<ISM
;WTQL5IZS[
I\6+))?M[\
1V^Q\I\QWVIT
See VOLLEYBALL page 15
 5*((>,:;9,.065(3:
See W. SOCCER page 15
>WTTMaJITT;MI[WV?ZIX[?Q\P\P;\ZIQOP\0WUM+W]Z\>QK\WZa PHOTOS  BY ERIK JEPSEN /GUARDIAN
UCSD celebrates after scoring the game-winning goal off the foot of 
sophomore forward Sarah Mctigue (above) in the 86th minute.
JOHN  HANACEK /GUARDIAN
Senior outside hitter Sylvia Schmidt sends a kill past a pair of defenders.See FENCING page 15
UCSD took a pair of three-set 
wins that brought its regular season record to 28-2 on the eve of the NCAA playoffs. 