:762,5
“:<9-9,769; -69,*(:; 05:0+, 50./;>(;*/ .(:7,9.(3365
THURSDAY
Height:  10-13 ft.
Wind: 5-9 mph
Water Temp: 59 FFRIDAY
Height:  7-10 ft.
Wind: 3-8 mph
Water Temp: 59 F
SATURDAY
Height:  6-8 ft.
Wind: 2-5 mph 
Water Temp: 59 FSUNDAY
Height:  6 ft.
Wind: 2-4 mph 
Water Temp: 59 FLOW
$2.85
Dion and Sons, Santee
11427 Woodside Ave
HIGH
$3.65
76, Point Loma
1704 Rosecrans St & Nimitz Blvd
*VTPJZ 
5L^)\ZPULZZ 
/LHK4LL[Z.YV\UK 
3L[[LY[V[OL,KP[VY 
*VUJLY[7YL]PL^
*SHZZPMPLKZ:\KVR\ SATURDAY
H 70 L 45SUNDAY
H 67 L 49FRIDAY
H 73 L 47THURSDAY
H 69 L 45
You found a sweater on the 
ocean floor/ They’re gonna find it 
if you didn’t close the door.”
VAMPIRE WEEKEND
“COUSINS”
PAGE 7By Hayley Bisceglia-Martin
News Editor
In the week following Gov. Schwarzenegger’s 
Jan. 6 speech — which advocated a 
mandatory increase in funding for higher education — prison guards and legislators have been pointing out flaws in the governor’s midnight proposal.
If passed, the amendment would begin slowly +W]VKQT,MJI\M[.]VLQVONWZ=+.ZMM*ZIVKP
By Angela Chen
News Editor
Funding is unsure for A.S. President 
Utsav Gupta’s week-old proposal to create an auxiliary section of the A.S. Council independent from the university. 
If councilmembers approve the pro-
posal, it will be placed on the Spring Quarter election ballot. Gupta aims to create a 501(c)(3) group — an inde-pendent, tax-exempt, autonomous orga-nization. This subsection, called A.S. Auxiliary, would be affiliated with the university’s A.S. Council and governed by a majority of the same members, but would not be subject to UCSD’s departmental restrictions, such as the prohibition against building off-campus housing.
“Off-campus housing and building a 
Greek row are the key pillars of this plan, ” Gupta said. “Over a period of 50 years, we can buy La Jolla real estate and build stu-dent housing with rates we can control. ”
According to VP Finance Peter 
Benesch, the plan ensures that the coun-cil will retain its university funding and services. He also stressed that the A.S. operating budget could not fund Gupta’s proposed subsection.“We looked at the budget and decid-
ed we can’t fund A.S. money into it, ” Benesch said. “It will be a separate entity both in that it won’t affect council at all 
and that it will need to raise its own money. ”
Benesch added that the 
voluntary $5 fee Gupta suggested as a method of funding, modeled after the dues of groups such as the student organization 
CalPIRG, may be unfeasible. 
“With these times and students 
strapped for cash and so many groups reaching for a cause, people will see this as just another hand extending out for 
UCOP: PRISON 
FUNDING SWAP NOT LIKELY
By Victoria Bañuelos
Contributing Writer
The U.S. DeparWPHQW RI
(GXFDWLRQKDVUHYLVHGDQGVLP
SOLILHGWKH  Free Application for 
Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) application for the 2010-11 aca-demic year, making it easier for students to apply for financial aid. 
Among the changes to the 
newer FAFSA application is the implementation of “skip logic, ”  
a mechanism that recognizes which questions a particular stu-dent needs to answer, and elimi-nates all unnecessary questions. 
In addition, low-income stu-
dents will no longer be required to answer questions about assets, since these questions do not affect their aid. Different sections of the application will also be sep-arated by color, making it easier for users to navigate. 
Over 34,000 students 
applied for federal financial aid using FAFSA in the 2008-2009 school year. According to Jake Stillwell, communications direc-tor for the United States Student Association, the new application should boost the number of stu-dents applying for federal aid. 
“Studies have concluded that 
reducing the number of ques-tions will encourage more stu-dents to apply, because the sheer number of questions have pre-
viously deterred students from completing the form, ” Stillwell 
said.
The UCSD Financial Aid 
Office is also optimistic about the new application. According to associate director Vonda Garcia, the streamlined applica-tion process will encourage stu-dents to apply for grants and loans. 
“I’m happy to see the 2010-11 
FAFSA has been simplified from 
over 20 screens down to nine, ” 
Garcia said. “Students will find it easier to complete. ”
The deadline to fill out the 
FAFSA is March 2.
Readers can contact Victoria 
Bañuelos at vbanuelos@ucsd.eduOPINION
A 50-year 
attention span is too long for the council. Page 4
Zanzibar Cafe, UCSD’s newest Price Center East eatery, held its grand opening from 4:30 p.m. to 6 p.m. on Jan. 13. Having just opened inside campus art-and-music venue the Loft, the cafe will cater to students 
attending performances across the room.  Zanzibar bills itself as a “gourmet market” and sells lunch Monday through Friday from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., as well as “bites and beverages” from 4 p.m. to midnight. See COUNCIL page 2
ZANZIBAR NONEFinancially independent 
subsection would allow A.S. Council to buildoff-campus housing.
JOHN  HANACEK /GUARDIAN
The A.S. Council will next discuss the 501(c)(3) proposal at their meeting in Week Four.
.MLMZIT)QL)XXTQKI\QWV;QUXTQNQML*()<+.,;*90:0:0)1<1)6
+)81<)4
01<0):,
*A9=)3-
By Kelsey Wong
Senior Staff Writer
A 7.0 magnitude earthquake 
hit the capital of Port-au-Prince 
Tuesday afternoon, devastating the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere.
In a CNN article, Haitian 
President Rene Preval said that, less than 48 hours following the quake, the death rate has been esti-mated at anywhere from 30,000 to 100,000.
“Y ou have to see it to believe it, ” 
Preval told CNN. “Lots of houses destroyed, hospitals, schools, per-sonal homes - a lot of people in the street, dead. ”
Representatives from the UCSD 
Community Law Project and the InterVarsity Christian Fellowship told the A.S. Council at last night’s meeting that they will spread awareness for the American Red Cross’ relief effort by tabling on Library Walk on Jan. 14 and 15, from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m.
Additionally, A.S. Campuswide 
Senator Wafa Ben-Hassine drafted a proposal asking the council to allocate $5,000 in funds to non-profit health organization Partner in Health.
The proposal was rejected 
after a check of the standing rules revealed that A.S. Council cannot use student fees and funding to donate to outside sources. The pro-
OPINION
Too little,
too late. 
Page 4
PHOTOS  BY DANIEL  CADDELL /GUARDIAN
See AMENDMENT page 9 See HAITI page 3
CANYONVIEW
COULDN’T
HAVE SEEN
THIS
COMING.
PAGE 12
THURSDAY
SATURDAYFRIDAY
SUNDAYTHURSDAY , JANUARY 14, 2010 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG VOLUME XLII, ISSUE XXIV2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN  THURSDAY , JANUARY 14, 2010  NEWS
;OL<*:+ .\HYKPHU  PZ W\ISPZOLK 4VUKH`Z HUK
;O\YZKH`ZK\YPUN[OLHJHKLTPJ`LHYI`<*:+Z[\KLU[Z
HUK MVY [OL <*:+ JVTT\UP[` 9LWYVK\J[PVU VM [OPZUL^ZWHWLY PU HU` MVYT ^OL[OLY PU ^OVSL VY PU WHY[^P[OV\[ WLYTPZZPVU PZ Z[YPJ[S` WYVOPIP[LK    HSSYPNO[ZYLZLY]LK;OL
<*:+.\HYKPHU PZUV[YLZWVUZPISL
MVY[OLYL[\YUVM\UZVSPJP[LKTHU\ZJYPW[ZVYHY[;OL]PL^ZL_WYLZZLKOLYLPUKVUV[ULJLZZHYPS`YLWYLZLU[[OLVWPUPVUZVM[OL
<*:+.\HYKPHU [OL<UP]LYZP[`VM*HSPMVYUPH
VY(ZZVJPH[LK:[\KLU[Z;OL <*:+.\HYKPHU PZM\UKLK
ZVSLS`I`HK]LY[PZPUN0[T\Z[ILH.PYS:JV\[[OPUN
.LULYHS,KP[VYPHS!
editor@ucsdguardian.org
5L^Z! news1@ucsdguardian.org
-VJ\Z! features@ucsdguardian.org
/PH[\Z! hiatus@ucsdguardian.org 
6WPUPVU! opinion@ucsdguardian.org
:WVY[Z! sports@ucsdguardian.org
7OV[V! photo@ucsdguardian.org
(K]LY[PZPUN!
ads@ucsdguardian.org
-H_! Page Layout
9LNPUH0W,TPS`2\1VUH[OHU:OHU5HVTP:OPMMTHU
;LYLZH;YPUO:PTVUL>PSZVU
4VUPJH)HJOTLPLY
4PRL4HY[PULa
(SMYLKV/=PSHUV1Y
9VI*VYLH
,]HU*VVR
@LSLUH(RVWPHU
+HYH)\                       
2PYI`2VV               
:OHUUVU>PU[LY          
:OH^U?\General Manager
Advertising ManagerAdvertising Art Director
Marketing Team LeaderNetwork AdministratorStudent Marketing
and Events                                    :PTVUL>PSZVU
(S`ZZH)LYLaUHR
9LaH-HYHaTHUK
:TY\[P(YH]PUK
2LSZL`4HYY\QV
/H`SL`)PZJLNSPH4HY[PU
(UNLSH*OLU
(`LSL[)P[[VU
;YL]VY*V_
*OLY`S/VYP
=PZOHS5H[HYHQHU
4H[[*YVZRL`
,K^PU.VUaHSLa
(WYPSSL4\ZJHYH
1LUUH)YVNHU
*OYPZ2VRPV\ZPZ
,YPR1LWZLU
1VOU/HUHJLR
,TPS`2\
*OYPZ[PUH(\ZOHUH
7OPSPW9OPL
:HYP;OH`LY
5PJVSL;LP_LPYHEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
Copy EditorsNews EditorsAssociate News Editors
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports EditorAssociate Sports EditorFocus EditorAssociate Focus EditorAssociate Hiatus Editors
Photo EditorAssociate Photo EditorDesign EditorArt Editors
Web Editor
Training and Development
Business Assistant
;PMMHU`/HU
Advertising Design and Layout 
)YHUKVU*O\,]HU*VVR2PT*VVWLY
Distributors
(SHYPJ)LYT\KLa:HS.HSSHNVZ:JV[[/H]YPZPR
<*:+.<(9+0(569.;OL<*:+.\HYKPHU
 .PSTHU+YP]L
3H1VSSH*(  Copy Readers
(T`.\aKHY4VUPJH/HPKLY1VUH[OHU2PT
4HZOH:VRVSV]5HVTP:^LV(UP[H=LYNPZ1V`JL@LO
Web Designers
1HRL:JOULPKLY1LUU`;>HUN
money, ” Benesch said. 
He said it would be difficult to 
receive enough donations to fund the 
organization. 
“Some organizations, such as 
CalPIRG, have 10 percent of the stu-dent body donating, but it’s not fea-sible for us to reach that 10-percent threshold, ” Benesch said. 
One alternate method of fund-
ing the 501(c)(3) would be to ask for voluntary donations from outside sources. 
“Interested people could donate 
to the campus, ” Benesch said. “For example, the local community could contribute to this organization, or Greek alumni could donate to the cause of building a Greek row. ”
This model of business has previ-
ously been implemented on cam-pus. According to Assistant Vice Chancellor of Alumni Affairs Armin Afsahi, there is a university depart-ment of Alumni Affairs that has a separate 501(c)(3) organization called the Alumni Association, cre-ated in 1974. 
“ Alumni Affairs is a department which is funded by the university, ” Afsahi said. “The Alumni Association is a membership-based organization that has the same goals but is essen-tially separate from Alumni Affairs. ”
Afsahi said that the two organiza-
tions work very closely together and are integrated in most of their actions. The association has a separate board of directors, although members from the department usually serve on this board; in fact, Afsahi himself is its executive director. 
“The association is a member-
based legal vehicle to facilitate tax-exempt donations from alumni, ” Afsahi said. “Our annual and life dues, if donated through the associa-tion, are tax-deductible. ”
In contrast to the fiscal separation 
of A.S. Council and the proposed A.S. Auxiliary, Afsahi said there is one comprehensive Alumni Affairs reve-nue to which the Alumni Association contributes.
Director of Associated Students 
Lauren Weiner said the proposal is in the preliminary stages — a formal-ized draft has not been presented to the council. Before a proposal is presented to 
the A.S. Council, various require-ments need to be cleared. Director of Policy Initiatives Mac Zilber request-ed an advisory opinion from the Internal Revenue Services to decide whether the council’s lobbying efforts will prevent it from creating this aux-iliary. One stipulation of the creation of a 501(c)(3) is that the organization must be free from direct political lobbying. 
According to Zilber, the A.S. 
Council participates in two activities that could be labeled as lobbying. 
The council currently pays 
$2.24 per quarter per student to the University of California Student Association, which Zilber calls the “lobbying arm for all of A.S. ” In addition, the council has previously arranged external events, such as Fall Quarter’s bus trip to UCLA during the UC Regents meeting on Nov. 19, which could be considered lobbying because of the implied request for students to influence the Regents’ decision. 
AVP External Affairs Gracelynne 
West said she doubts these activities 
will affect the likelihood of the A.S. Council being able to create a 501(c)(3) organization. 
“Our campaigns are not necessar-
ily about telling the students how to vote, ” West said. “They’re about issue awareness, not lobbying. ” 
If this proposal is placed on the 
Spring Quarter election ballot and passed by student vote, the imple-mentation of the organization and elections for the board of directors would begin in the 2010-11 academic year.
According to Gupta, the board of 
directors would be fiscally account-able for the actions of A.S. Auxiliary and would review the auxiliary’s fund usage. Appointed members of A.S. Council may be guaranteed a posi-tion on the board, although another proposal is to open positions for local community members. 
A special committee to discuss 
the logistics and feasibility of the pro-posal has been created, and will meet for the first time this weekend. 
Readers can contact Angela Chen at 
shchen@ucsd.edu.7\PMZ8W[[QJTM;W]ZKM[WN.]VLQVO1VKT]LM8ZQ^I\M,WVI\QWV[)T ]UVQ7]\ZMIKP
▶ COUNCIL, MYVTWHNL
BOY SCOUT BILLY By Kim Cyprian
SUNNY-SIDE UP By Philip Rhie
CAREERISSUEON STANDS
MONDAY , 1/ 25
IN THIS ISSUE:
Learn from the survivors as successfulUCSD Alumni tell their stories.There is life after graduation.
ADVERTISE NOW! CALL 858.534.3467UCSD CAREER SERVICES
858.534.3250NEWS THURSDAY , JANUARY 14, 2010  THE UCSD GUARDIAN 3 
posal was instead amended to read, 
“ ASUCSD stands in solidarity with the victims of the earthquake and will support the student-led initia-tives to benefit Haiti. ” The resolu-tion was approved by councilmem-bers.
The council then moved to allo-cate $370 — or the remainder of InterVarsity’s $400 annual student-organization operating fund — to support tabling efforts and provide funding for glowsticks at a Thursday night vigil outside Geisel.
Donations for the American 
Red Cross and the Wyclef Jean Organization are currently being 
accepted via text message. Those interested can text “HAITI” to 90999 — which will donate $10 to the Red Cross — or “YELE” to 501501, which will donate $5 for the Wyclef Jean Organization.
Readers can contact Kelsey Wong at  
klw009@ucsd.edu.
When the library closes, hop on over to Price Center East for 
	

		


Sunday – Thursday 
Open 24 hours
Friday 
Closed at 2:30am
Saturday 
7am - 2:30am
Price Center East
OPEN 24 HOURS!
Sunday – Thursday
universitycenters.ucsd.eduSunday - Saturday 
Open until midnightSaturday, January 16, 2010
10:00 am - 12:00 noon
Downtown San Diego
FREE transportation  (UCSD Stu dents Only)
Meet at the Sun God Parking Lot by 8:30 am.
If you  have  your  own  transportation,  you  can join UCSD at  
9:15 a.m. at  the Petco P ark Parade Sta ging Area  locate d at 
Petco’s Tail gate Park on 13th St.  and Im perial  Ave.  
FREE T-shirt g iven out at para de stag ing area.  1st co me, 1st serve d.
MLK Jr. Day of Service ( Post-Parade):
Participate in helpin g to restore  and maintain  historic  
National City Livin g History  Farm Preserve !  Sign-up at  the 
One  Stop  desk  on the 3rd oor of Price Center  East  by 1/13.Sign up at the following locations: 
Revelle: Why  Not Here ? Loun ge 
Muir: M OM
Marshall: Stu dent A airs Oce
Warren: Stu dent A airs Oce, Res  
Life & the  Student Activities  Center
Roosevelt: Stu dent A airs Oce & 
Res Life  Oce
Sixth: P epper Canyon  Hall  2nd Floor 
Front Desk  
Center for Student 
Involvement (P rice Center  East )
Sponsored by: Associated Students; Chancellor’s Office; Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs Office; 
Center for Student Involvement; Cross-Cultural Center; African-Amercan Studies Minor, Revelle, Muir, 
Marshall, Warren, Roosevelt and Sixth college Deans and College Councils; UCSD Staff Associations.30th Annual San Diego
Martin Luther King, Jr. Parade
& Day of ServiceUniversity of California, San Diego
a campus tradition
getinvolved.ucsd.edu
'MBWPSTr6QUP5PQQJOHTr%BJSZ'SFF'MBWPSTr'BU'SFF 'MBWPST
/P4VHBS"EEFE'MBWPSTr3FBM:PHVSUXJUI-JWF$VMUVSFTF
YOYGURTGF
FF
YYYOYYOOYYYYYYYYGOOGGURTGGURTURTGGGGGGGGGTF YOGURTIn the Whole Foods Plaza
,A *OLLA 6ILLAGE #ENTER s  6ILLA ,A *OLLA $R  ,A *OL LA #!
	 s  WWWFACEBOOKCOMTFYOGURTONLY FOR
UCSD
STUDENTS30¢per oz.
if you buy 10 oz
at the regularprice of 35¢per ozGET 5 OUNCES 
FREEYour
news
24
hoursa day,
7
days aweekwww.ucsd guardian.or g+W]VKQT4WWS[7^MZ[MI[\W
0IQ\Q1V\T;\]LQM[+]ZZQK]T]U
In light of the massive 7.0-mag-
nitude earthquake that wreaked destruction on Haiti on Tuesday, 
the second A.S. Council meeting of the quarter revolved heavily around possible funding and relief efforts to support and aid Haiti in finding sur-vivors and rebuilding their country. 
Kenny  Pettersen , a student who 
feels passionately about Haiti and has traveled there seven times, addressed the council in hopes they would allo-cate $5,000 to nonprofit organization Partners in 
Health to help fund relief efforts. 
After nearly an hour of debate, the 
council decided the standing rules would not allow them to allocate $5,000 to an outside organization. 
President Utsav Gupta reminded 
councilmembers to spread the word about the A.S. Council survey, in the hopes that it would help make the UCSD football team more than a far-fetched dream. 
Parminder Sandhu introduced 
himself as the new A.S. Advocate General, and addressed the growing issue of councilmember absences.  
“I’m working on impeachment, ” 
Sandhu said, though his facetious tone belied any real threat. 
Social Sciences Senator Irfan  
Ahmed briefed the council on a plan 
to reduce the international-studies major tracks. Ahmed said the plan 
would solidify ma jor and minor 
requirements, but marginalize much-needed diversity within the ma jor. A 
career-services fair for social-science majors is also in the works. 
A confrontation at last Friday’s 
New Boyz concert — in which a 
friend of an A.S. councilmember who was promised entrance was denied when the concert reached capac-ity — proved to be a source of stress for AV P Concerts and Events Alex 
Bramwell.  
“Some were guaranteed by A.S. 
councilmembers that they would get into the [sold-out] event, but this reflects badly on council and makes my job miserable for the night, ” 
Bramwell said. 
VP Student 
Life Riscie  
Hernan dez 
updated council-members on the services offered by the Office of Student Wellness. 
She announced that the previously vacant space between Price Center 
Theater and Jamba Juice finally has a new occupant : the new student well-
ness center.  
It will be used as a small space 
for meetin gs, p
rogramming, yoga 
and meditation, set to open Spring Quarter 2010, she said. 
Muir senators Ryan  O’Rear  and 
Lynne Swerhone  talked about their 
first Muirworld radio show on KSDT 
last Tuesday. A total of nine people tuned in — a number that elicited cheers from councilmembers. They discussed adding a “Konstituent Korner” segment for next week’s show, during which students can call in and ask questions about Muir 
College or A.S.  Council. The sena-tors thought the ‘K’s gave the idea an extra edge. 
As the meeting drew to a close, 
Campuswide Senator B ryant  Pena 
voiced his frustrations with both the standing rules and councilmembers’ reluctance to act outside them. 
“We tend to shut off ideas that 
have great potential…it is our A.S. and our university, ” P ena said. “We 
represent the students. If we need to amend the rules to do whatever it is, then let’s make it happen. ”New
KELSEY WONG
klw009@ucsd.edu
Business;KQMV\Q[\[.QVL:I\QWWN.MUITM*MI]\a:*0,5*,(5+;,*/5636.@
By Xue Mao
Contributing Writer
Researchers from UCSD and the 
University of Toronto have found 
the exact formula for facial beauty — down to the millimeter. 
UCSD psychology professors 
Pamela Pallett and Stephen Link, 
along with University of Toronto pro-fessor Kang Lee, surveyed hundreds of students to discover a ratio of the most attractive female face. They recently published their findings in Vision Research magazine.
Previous research found that the 
most appealing face could be deter-mined by digitally and mathematically averaging the facial features of any given group of people. To test this hypothesis, Link, P allett and Lee gath-
ered groups of roughly 2 0 to 40 UCSD 
students to conduct a new experiment.
The sub jects were shown pictures 
of the same white female, with altered facial ratios — different proportions between features — and asked to choose the most appealing face.
“In Experiment One, for example, 
there were 10 alterations to an origi-nal face, resulting in 11 faces, ” Link said. “These were each paired against each other, and sub jects were asked 
to judge which face appeared more 
attractive. ”The researchers established that 
the most attractive face was formed when the vertical distance between the eyes and the mouth is approxi-mately 36 percent of its length, and the horizontal distance between the eyes is approximately 46 percent of the face’s width. About 63,000 images were used to determine the two mea-surements — one for eye width and one for the distance between eye and mouth — with extreme accuracy.
Link said the findings showed that 
most people have an intuitive idea of facial beauty.
“People have an ideal for beauty in 
their own mind, ” Link said. “Y ou can ask them about it, and even if they think they don’t know what their ideal 
is, from comparative judgments, we 
can discover what their ideal is. ”
According to Link, the purpose 
of the pro ject was not simply to find 
an equation for beauty, but to gain an understanding of how people decide what is attractive and what is not.
While Pallett and Link only 
analyzed the facial features of white females, they said they plan to diver-sify their studies.
“We have done a lot of research 
with Chinese sub jects, ” Link said. “I 
absolutely expect the results to be dif-ferent. Beauty is a cultural and genetic sort of thing. ”
Readers can contact Xue Mao at  
xymao@ucsd.edu.
COURTESY  OF STEPHEN  LINK
▶ HAITI, MYVTWHNL+W]VKQT»;\IVL[QV;WTQLIZQ\a¼?Q\P-IZ\PY]ISM>QK\QU[7816176
+76<)+<<0--,1<7:" opinion@ucsdguardian.orgWEB
POLL
ARE YOU IN 
FAVOR OF A 
SIMPLE-
MAJORITY 
VOTING
SYSTEM 
IN STATE 
CONGRESS?65%  Yes.
22%  
13%  I don’t know.Props to Mukul Asaduzzaman, a New York City taxi driver who drove 
50 miles out of his way to return a purse containing $21,000 in cash to an Italian tourist who had left it in his car.
Flops to former Federal Emergency Management Agency employee 
Lashonda Booker for committing mail fraud and stealing more 
than $721,000 in Hurricane Katrina relief money.No.4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG/OPINION THURSDAY , JANUARY 14, 2010
Looks like those picket signs 
didn’t go unnoticed in Sacramento after all.
In his final State of the State 
address on Jan. 6, Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger (R-CA) made a monumental announcement: Not only does he want to restore $305 million in lost UC funding for the 2010-11 academic year, he also wants to make sure state-prison funding never exceeds that of higher education. 
It’s refreshing to know that all stu-
dents’ efforts to protest fee increases and budget cuts weren’t for naught. The governor’s aids even said the tip-ping point for Schwarzenegger was all the angry mobs across UC campuses this year. 
But let’s not break out the celebra-
tory bottles of Andre just yet. 
First, we can’t forget these prom-
ises are coming from a leader who has enacted persistent slashes to higher-education funding every year in office (save 2006 — his re-election year). 
Naturally, Schwarzenegger doesn’t 
want to go to down in history as the man who ruined the best public uni-versity in the world. But pressing the “rewind” button on six years’ worth of comprises to education will be no easy task — especially not for a lame duck. 
And in reality, the governor’s 
promise is light-years from becom-ing realized. Democrats in the state congress oppose his proposed cuts to welfare programs, and his fellow GOP members aren’t too fond of increasing university funding. 
And although Schwarzenegger 
insists that this $20 billion-lighter budget won’t involve raising taxes, he’s also counting on a $6.9 billion increase in federal funding to balance it all out, which — with the national economy barely treading the first steps of its rebound — is anything but a safe bet. 
In the speech, he expressed con-tempt at the fact that, in the last 30 years, funding for higher education shrank from 10 percent of the state general fund to 7.5 percent, and pris-on funding has swelled from 3 percent to nearly 11 — an imbalance of priori-ties if we ever saw one.
Y et he predictably failed to rec-
ognize how much of that happened on his watch. Since Schwarzenegger’s term began six years ago, university funding has dropped 9 percent, while prison spending is up 32 percent.
Now, to reverse the damage that’s 
been done, the governor has also called to privatize a portion of our prisons — freeing up money in the budget for higher education. 
While passing part of the prison 
system off to corporations might seem a good way to lighten the state’s load, it’s not nearly so simple. Private prisons contract corporations to watch over inmates. Like any other business, they’re in it for the money; the more beds filled, the more money in their pockets. What’s more, stud-ies from other states that have tried privatization have shown that they don’t always save the state money. In fact, in Tennessee, the state legislature estimated in 1998 that operating a private facility was as pricey as run-ning two public prisons.
The real reason our prisons have 
become such an expensive burden is that they’re so overcrowded. If Schwarzenegger wants to make our prisons cheaper for the state, he should start by reconsidering the three-strikes and drug laws that have bloated prisons past maximum capac-ity.
As much as we’ d like to top off our 
plastic champagne flutes and toast to our new friend in high places, this board also recognizes the governor’s promises are riding on a long shot. We appreciate Schwarzenegger’s effort to reprioritize UC funding, but his plan to privatize prisons is hardly a sure-fire path to savings. So until we see a proposal that 
both drums up legislative support and responsibly addresses the pris-on-system issue, we’ll remain grate-ful — and skeptically optimistic.
1\¼[I6QKM/M[\]ZM*]\?WV¼\:M_QVL\PM8I[\
A.S. president Utsav Gupta’s dream to create a UCSD football team may be 
untimely and superfluous, but at least a motley blue-and-gold fleet is something that students can wrap their heads around.
The latest brainchild of our over-
ambitious leader, on the other hand, is a mystery and a mouthful. Gupta wants to set up a 501(3)(c) organiza-tion — a financially independent branch of student government called A.S. Auxiliary — run by a yet-to-be-appointed board of students and community members.
Sound boring? It is. And while 
we endlessly admire UCSD’s mast-head poli-nerd for his enthused devotion to taming budgets and committees and evil administrators (and for answering our phone calls at 2 a.m.), it’s dangerous to open up more fee pools and accountable seats — especially when all those expected to pay and govern aren’t particularly interested.
Especially dangerous considering 
Gupta only has two quarters — and shrinking — to make a sovereign 
A.S. subsector something his succes-
sors care about, let alone understand.
It does sound pretty sweet to 
bust from university ties like a pack of tax-exempt renegades. Under the auxiliary branch, A.S. Council would be able to provide services the uni-versity currently prohibits it to offer, like off-campus housing.
Thing is, land purchase in La 
Jolla is the only example Gupta and Co. can seem to muster. Particularly, upon which to raise a frat row. (Come on — if we wanted to be San Diego State, we would have just elected Adam Teitelbaum last spring.)
Not that affordable student hous-
ing isn’t practical. And it’s nice to see Gupta making good on another of his campaign promises, which hasn’t exactly been a trend in council his-tory. 
But funded solely by a voluntary 
$5 quarterly fee Gupta is propos-ing, he says this auxiliary branch wouldn’t be able to purchase the land 
until maybe 50 years from now. Y et 
that’s only if a full 10 percent of the student body — clueless to its pro-posed purpose — agrees to pay. And who’s to say appointees in 25 years won’t decide there’s something more pressing on hand — say, a giant meteor hurtling toward Earth — and apply student fees toward that?
This would be one of those fees 
that hoards of students end up pay-
ing while very few reap the benefits, 
and very far in the future. A.S. Vice President of Finances Peter Benesch agrees it will be almost impossible to raise the amount of money needed to accomplish much anytime soon, and thinks it more feasible to hit up fraternity and sorority alumni to help us realize any dreams of Greek housing.
A 501(3)(c) organization is not 
inherently a bad idea; it would avoid taxes on whichever fees or donations did end up there, and could serve as a nifty middle finger to counter the administrative iron fist. But even if Gupta can convince the student body to vote it into existence on the A.S. ballot next quarter, the auxiliary branch will ultimately open up one more avenue for A.S. negligence.
There are already mountains 
of perfectly good abandoned com-mittees and fish-netted proposals waiting in the wings of Price Center East for someone to take responsibil-ity. Creating a brand-new mini A.S. council — even a lean, mean budget-ary bad boy like this one — may be less important than maximizing the capabilities of the old.
);\ZIVLML6M_+WTWVa¼[6W\?WZ\P\PM*]ZLMV
ILLUSTRATIONS  BY STEFANY  CHEN/GUARDIAN-,1<7:1)4;
:PTVUL>PSZVU
EDITOR IN CHIEF
(S`ZZH)LYLaUHR
9LaH-HYHaTHUK
MANAGING EDITORS
/H`SL`)PZJLNSPH4HY[PU
(UNLSH*OLU
NEWS EDITORS
;YL]VY*V_
OPINION EDITOR,+0;690(3)6(9+
The UCSD Guardian  is published twice a week at 
the University of California at San Diego. Contents © 
2010. Views expressed herein represent the majority 
vote of the editorial board and are not necessarily 
those of the UC Board of Regents, the ASUCSD or 
the members of the Guardian  staff. 8T]OAW]Z
6W[M"<ZI[P,WV¼\;\QVSQV,
Rotting mounds of garbage 
don’t typically capture my attention for too long. They 
tend to smell bad, they attract shifty-looking sanitation workers and I hap-pen to be terrified of raccoons. It’s not that I don’t appreciate the large-scale impact of garbage or the importance of how it affects our planet’s ecosys-tem — I just don’t think it’s anything particularly remarkable to look at.
“ Avatar” was the exception.Billed as the next generation of 
filmmaking, “ Avatar” was in fact one of the most monumental heaps of garbage ever to appear in theaters. It was shallow. It was repetitive. It had a storyline that blended the worst ele-ments of “Pocahontas” with the best elements of “Captain Planet” . 
But god damn if it wasn’t the pret-
tiest piece of garbage I’ve ever seen. I was captivated. I’ll even go so far as to say that I liked it. And that scares me.
While I’m not usually one to play 
up the cultural significance of over-hyped, big-name blockbusters, it’s impossible to ignore the impact that “ Avatar” is likely to have on the film industry, and on the development of our Internet-fed collective conscious-ness. “ Avatar” is much more than just a bad movie with good special effects; as the second highest-grossing film in history, it’s a sign of the times — a poorly scripted testament to the rap-idly evolving nature of what intrigues us. And, by the looks of it, what intrigues us is a whole lot of crap. Glossy, digitally enhanced, multimil-lion-dollar crap.
To be fair, that’s pretty much 
always been the case. Never before, however, has so mindless a film gained so much critical acclaim. Scene for scene, the plot of “ Avatar” is roughly on par with that of a lesser-known Disney movie. But we all liked it. A lot. Mainly because it was the coolest-looking thing any of us has ever seen. It was a rollercoaster, a spaceship, a dramatic warping of our immediate surroundings. The theater ceased to exist. We were in another world.
Unfortunately, that world was 
plagued by idiotic dialogue, shame-lessly employed stereotypes and heroes we secretly hoped would die. And that’s why “ Avatar” — with its exceedingly superficial plot line, its stunning lack of character develop-ment and its near-unparalleled box- office success — is a perfect example of how our young, Web-minded generation — perpetually grafted to smart phones and jacked into social-media networks — likes to get its kicks. 
It’s becoming more and more 
evident that what we want is instant gratification, pretty pictures and non-stop visual stimulation. We don’t want to think. We don’t want to read. We don’t want to be challenged, nor made to question what’s before us. Instead of lengthy newspaper articles, we want quick one-line summaries. Instead of complex back-stories, subtle character traits and thought-
See GROUND page 5REZA FARAZMAND
rfarazma @ucsd.edu
Head MeetsGround
OPINION THURSDAY , JANUARY 14, 2010  THE UCSD GUARDIAN 5 
provoking narratives, we crave a 
relentless barrage of 3-D bullshit. We want the immediacy of Twitter, the pornographic thrill of Y ouTube. We want color. We want action. We want it now. And it’s making us stupid.
There’s not much we can do 
about it, though. At this point, our unyielding drive toward complete digital idiocy has gained far too much momentum for any sort of effective reversal. We’re bound to grow ever more infatuated with technology, ever more impressed by mind-numbing feats of artificial visu-alization, ever more dependent on our computer-generated intellectual crutches. Hearing my peers — the majority of whom I had assumed to be at least partially capable of intel-ligent thought — praise the film for its brilliance is heartbreaking. The worst part is that I pretty much agree with them. 
But why? Why have I fallen prey 
to this epic piece of crap? Must I now commit hara-kiri, the ancient Japanese suicide ritual? Will the act of slashing open my abdomen and repeatedly stabbing myself in the throat be enough to cleanse my tar-nished soul of this “ Avatar”-induced stupidity? And how long will it take my roommate to get the blood stains out of the carpet? 
These aren’t the sorts of ques-
tions I like to ponder following a Monday-afternoon matinee, but ultimately, that’s what we’re all faced with. “ Avatar” has forced us to come to terms with the extent of our social decay. We don’t need it to make sense, we don’t need it to make us think — it just needs to look good. 
Maybe the DVD release will help 
break our trance. Without its kick-ass visual facade, after all, “ Avatar” is going to look a lot like a bottom-rung Pixar flick. It’ll be like seeing an average-looking girl without makeup for the first time, or like walking onto the set of “Sesame Street” and real-izing that Elmo is just a sweaty nerd with his hand up a puppet’s ass. For now, though, we’re stuck — hope-lessly fixated, relentlessly entertained. 
RevelleResident Advisor:  Available at reslifeapp.ucsd.edu. Apps due on January 18.
Orientation Leader: Available at tinyurl.com/revelleolapp. Apps due on January 29.
Resident Advisor:  Available at reslifeapp.ucsd.edu. Apps due on January 18.
Orientation Leader: Apps due on February 5 by 4:30pm to TMC Dean’s Office
Resident Advisor:  Available at reslifeapp.ucsd.edu. Apps due on January 18.
Orientation Leader: Apps due on January 27  to ERC Provost’s Office, 3rd floor.
Resident Advisor:  Available at reslifeapp.ucsd.edu. Apps due on January 18.
Orientation Leader: Apps due on February 5 by 4pm to Sixth College Front Desk, Pepper Canyon Hall
Resident Advisor:  Available at reslifeapp.ucsd.edu. Apps due on January 18.MarshallMuir
Resident Advisor:  Available at reslifeapp.ucsd.edu. Apps due on January 18.
Freshman Orientation Leader: Available at Port Triton on January 8. Apps due on January 29.Transfer Orientation Leader: Available at Port Triton on February 1. Apps due on February 20.
Resident Advisor:  Available at reslifeapp.ucsd.edu. Apps due on January 18.
Student Orientation Coordinator: Available on January 4. Apps due on January 22.Orientation Leader: Available on February 1. Apps due on February 12.
Roosevelt
Sixth
The Village 
at Torrey Pines Warren
Become a Leader!
Are you looking for a challenging and exciting leadership opportunity?  
Each of the six colleges are seeking applicants for Resident/House Advisor and Orientation Leader positions.
Gain valuable leadership and work experience while making new friends and having fun.  See the information below
for specific deadlines and locations for both Resident/House Advisor and Orientation Leader applications.
Dear Editor,
Last week, in his annual State 
of State address, Gov. Arnold 
Schwarzenegger stated: “Because our future economic well-being is so dependent on education … we can no longer afford to cut higher education. ” Overall, in the context of deep and painful cuts to so many valuable programs, the governor’s budget proposal was a win for higher education.
In the current economic climate, 
it would be comforting to still have affordable, high-quality education, but unfortunately, our competitive advantage is vanishing. Think tanks estimate that California needs about 55 to 60 percent of our population to be college-educated to compete econ-omies with other states and nations in 2025. We expect that about 45 percent of California’s population will complete a higher education — mil-lions of degrees less than we need to even meet our own requirements for skilled workers.
Graduates from our 110 com-
munity colleges could be a big part of the solution, using their skills and knowledge to repower our economy. However, only 24 percent of commu-nity-college students who intend to earn an associate’s degree or transfer to a four-year school are successful in doing so within six years. This is very troubling; we simply can’t afford for so many community-college students to fall through the cracks. 
It’s well-known that community-
college fees are low — but less well-known is the fact that fees comprise only about 5 percent of the total attendance cost. So to make ends meet, most community-college stu-dents work. A recent CalPIRG survey found that students worked an aver-age of 23 hours per week, leaving themselves too little time to focus on academics. This is no small problem when three out of five community college students are underprepared for college and need remediation. They have to focus on academics if they are to succeed.
To buy back some of those work 
hours for study, community-college students need more financial aid. Part of the solution is to make sure that all students understand the basics of financial aid and have the help they need to navigate the pro-cess. 
In this respect, Schwarzenegger’s 
budget, which suspends all new com-petitive Cal Grants, was troubling. These grants are already limited in number: Last year, 245,400 quali-fied applicants competed for 22,500 grants. 
Of course, community-college 
students face many challenges in get-ting to graduation, but working so hard that they can’t make the grade academically should not be one of them. We need to make sure that stu-dents know how to apply for the aid that is available and continue to fund the programs that enable low-income students to earn degrees. Why set students up for failure when so much is riding on their success?   
— Saffron Zomer
Campus Program Director, CalPIRG
LETTER  TO THE  EDITOR
▶ The Guardian  welcomes letters from its readers. 
All letters must be no longer than 500 words, 
typed, double-spaced and signed with a name and applicable title. Letters must also contain a phone number. We reserve the right to edit for length and clarity. Letters may be dropped off at the Guardian  
office on the second floor of the Student Center or e-mailed. Send all letters to:
The UCSD Guardian
Opinion Editor
9500 Gilman Dr. 0316
La Jolla, CA 92093-0316 
e-mail: opinion@ucsdguardian.org+WUU]VQ\a+WTTMOM)QL
3Ma\W;\I\M:MKW^MZa
»)^I\IZ¼0MZITL[\PM7NÅKQIT)OMWN,QOQ\IT1LQWKa
▶ GROUND, MYVTWHNLANIMAL INSTINCTS By Kim Cyprian;/,),:;:65.:
05/0(;<:;/0:>,,2boss dittiesCraving some alternative head-
bobbing with folksy ﬂare? Come see State Radio at House of Blues onSaturday at 7 p.m. Never heard of ’em? Check out “Indian Moon” on YouTube. It’ll change your life. $20HiATUSTONIGHT
 =HTWPYL>LLRLUK ¸*V\ZPUZ¹
=HTWPYL>LLRLUK ¸9\U¹
62.V¸>OP[L2U\JRSLZ¹
(ZVIP:LRZ\ ¸-HTPSPHY3PNO[¹
(ZVIP:LRZ\ ¸>HSRVU[OL4VVU¹WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG/HIATUS THURSDAY , JANUARY 14, 2010 6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN  
It’s not too far-fetched to say I’m 
maniacal about comics. I grew up with them, and at the moment I 
pretty much live and die by them.
So when I explain my passion to 
curious onlookers, I’m always a little surprised when they tell me they’ve never read a comic book before. The reasons are always diverse: For some, it’s that comics are daunting — the moment they read a page, they’re over-whelmed by visuals and don’t know where to begin. Others find the content immature, or the emotional conflict within superheroes silly and unrelatable. 
Whatever the reason, I feel it’s a big 
misunderstanding. Since I am of the 
opinion that comics can be just as ful-
filling as any other storytelling medium, I want to use this opportunity to discuss the fulfilling ways one can approach and interact with comics.
Assuming you’re reading from a 
physical Guardian  instead of the online 
version, I encourage you to walk to the nearest bookstore (UCSD’s included) and cozy up to the comics/graphic-novels section. If this is your first time ’round these parts, there’s a good chance your eye will immediately fall on the shelves of Marvel and DC compilations — or a large body of books with num-bers on their spines.
Say ‘Hello’ to the two biggest enti-
ties in comics: Western superheroes and Japanese manga. Take a moment to get acquainted. Now, grab a comic that catches your eye and continue reading this column before glancing back at said comic. Are you ready?
At first impression, the comic page 
is indeed daunting. There are lots of images and words, both large and small — trust me when I say I understand your pain. But if you’re still with me, I’m here to help. First thing to note is that a comic page is a lot like a poster, only a fourth or eighth of the size. Accordingly, you should read the page as you would read a poster: from top to bottom.
Now, depending on if you picked 
up a Western or Japanese comic, you’re either going to be reading from top left to bottom right, or top right to bot-tom left, respectively. But it’s OK — the method of reading rarely changes. 
The way you interpret a comic, 
however, depends entirely on the way it’s presented. Comics, like every other medium, come in a variety of genres.  For example, Dave Gibbon and Alan Moore’s groudbreaking Watchmen mostly used a 9x9-panel page layout — reflective of the familiar yet objective tone of the comic. It’s not hyper-stylized nor glamorized; the grotesque nature of the comic is presented in the most informational manner as possible.
In a popular Japanese manga like 
Naruto — which, unlike Watchmen, is highly fantastical — the comic is pre-sented playfully, as is typical of other, similarly lighthearted mangas. There are even comics like Scott Pilgrim, which contain young-adult subjects like work and dating, yet are presented in fantastic styles so as to make the reading acces-sible and fun.
There are, of course, more left-field 
comics like Prison Pit — wherein the content and presentation both reflect the chaotic, psychotic and disturbed nature of the comic. If you’ve picked up some-Critical      Hit!
PHILIP RHIE
prhie@ucsd.edu
East or West, 
or Whatever 
Your Fetish
See HIT, page 7PREACHY WILD WESTERN SHOOTS BLANKS
By Jenna Brogan
Associate Hiatus Editor
After a nine-year hibernation, twin directors Albert and Allen Hughes (“From Hell”) are back 
to make their mark on Hollywood. 
Too bad that mark is an unpleas-
ant stain. Known for films laced with social critique, the brothers make no exception with this year’s 
postapocalyptic western: a righteous 
slap on the wrist for 21st-century consumers. 
To start, we meet Eli (Denzel Washington), a man who — much like Cillian Murphy in “28 Days 
Later” and Will Smith in “I Am 
Legend” — appears to be the only person left on the planet.
Rather than making his way 
through the unscathed streets of London or Manhattan, however, Eli is trekking across what’s left of middle America, reduced to rubble by a war of human self-destruction and the subsequent obliteration of 
the ozone layer. 
But Eli is not nearly as helpless 
as you would think. Upon his first encounter with pillagers — yes, 
there are in fact many other people surviving in this dust bowl — we discover that not only does he pos-
sess superhuman senses, but he can 
wield a chainsaw-resistant samurai sword like nobody’s business.
With untouchable ninja skills 
that would make Neo bow down, Eli creams any and all vigilantes who stand in the way of him reach-ing the West. 
While anyone from California 
knows that the West Coast is where 
it’s at, you may be wondering why this particular iPod-toting anti-
hero has his heart set on the Pacific Ocean. Drumroll please: In Eli’s possession is a sacred book that holds the secrets to mankind’s salva-tion.
Which book, you ask? I’ d tell 
you, but then I’ d have to kill you. 
The only other person on the 
ravaged frontier who recognizes the power Eli carries — and is deter-mined to obtain it by any means — goes by the name Carnegie (Gary 
The Book of Eli
STARRING DENZEL WASHINGTON, GARY OLDMAN
& MILA KUNISDIRECTED BY ALBERT & ALLEN HUGHESRATED R01:58FILMREVIEWTearing  Down       theWallXifo!Btpcj!Tfltv
tusjq!zfbst!pgesfbnz!tipfhb{fgps!uifjs!bdpvtujd!tfu-!uif!xpse!pg!uif!mbez!ublft!dfoufstubhf/
CZ!BOHFMB!DIFO
TFOJPS!TUBGG!XSJUFSCONTACT THE EDITOR: hiatus@ucsdguardian.org
Aural voyeurs of the world, 
rejoice: Wall-of-sound afi-cionados Asobi Seksu are 
stripping down in every sense of the word. After six years per-forming in a trippy haze of heavy distortion, thick reverb and guitar layered upon guitar layered upon guitar, Asobi released an acoustic album this December, reinterpret-ing the sonic collages that gave them their fame. And come Friday, they’ll bare it all for the Loft.
This is perhaps appropriate 
for a band whose name trans-lates to “playful sex, ” and whose lead singer coos such suggestive oddities as “put your tongue to my battery” (that is, when she’s not cooing her unimaginables in Japanese). Asobi has pared them-selves down from four mem-bers to two: The only survivors are pixie-like lead singer Yuki Chikudate — whose otherworldly siren’s pipes make it hard to believe she hails from SoCal — and instrumentalist James Hanna. 
The removal of excess bag-
gage  is starkly apparent on new studio album Hush  — released 
last February — and Rewolf , 
December’s full-length of acoustic self-covers. The title of the former seems a direct order for those who pigeonholed Asobi as shoegaze band the second their 2007 break-out Citrus  blew up. And indeed, 
the stereotype was on point: Citrus 
oozes in charged wall-of-sound sweetness, more than just a little My Bloody Valentine running through its veins.
But now we have Hush , on 
See ELI, page 8See ASOBI, page 8
PHOTO  ILLUSTRATION  BY P HILIP  RHIEDPODFSUQSFWJFXHIATUS THURSDAY , JANUARY 14, 2010  THE UCSD GUARDIAN 7
When the “Chicago 8” Vietnam War activists, the inmates that took over 
Attica prison and the American-Indian movement needed representation during the ’60s and ’70s, they looked to William Kunstler for help. One of the most controversial lawyers of the 20th century, he represented some of the most reviled members of society — from rapists to assassins to terrorists. Today, his ﬁlmmaker daughters Emily and Sarah Kunstler bring his story to the silver screen with a biopic about a man — however unpopular — who believed in justice for all. (JB)“WILLIAM KUNSTLER: DISTURBING THE UNIVERSE”
KEN CINEMA / JAN. 15. / $10HIATUS PICKS THE WEEK’S BEST BETSexit strategy
“THE GAMER”
PRICE CENTER THEATER
JAN. 14 & 16, 6 P .M. & 9 P .M.
$3
DJ SUNPIN
ROUND TABLE PIZZA
JAN. 15, 1 P .M.FREEDEAD PANIC
CHE CAFE
JAN. 15, 7:30 P .M.$6
CASTANETS
CHE CAFE
JAN. 16, TBATBAMOUNT RIGHTEOUS
CHE CAFE
JAN. 17, 8 P .M.TBA
“INVENTION OF LYING”
PRICE CENTER THEATER
JAN. 19, 6 P .M. & 9 P .M.$3HABANOT NECHAMA
CHE CAFE
JAN. 20, 9 P .M.$10
AUTOMATIC CITIES
MCASD LA JOLLATHROUGH JAN. 31
FREE druthers 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS
Vampire Weekend
Contra
XL RECORDINGS
Sonic Anthropolgists Pen Upper-Crust ThesisALBUMREVIEW
8
10
FILMREVIEW
By Amanda Martinek
Senior Staff Writer
He’s scarier than the love child of 
Freddy Krueger and Hannibal Lector; he’s the most unassuming villain in 
existence; he’s your next-door neighbor. The normal guy that prunes his roses in the front yard and lives alone — a million times more threatening than any of Rob Zombie’s twisted nightmares, simply because he’s a real-life testament to what happens when a creepy old man catches the scent of a young blossoming girl, and can’t control his perverted desires.
Based on the novel by Alice Sebold, “The Lovely Bones” is the haunting tale of one such creeper and the 14-year-old after whom he pines. Susie Salmon (Saoirse Ronan) is young, happy and healthy. She spends her days jok-ing with her best buds, snapping photos of her fam and daydreaming about the class hottie. 
But that happy bubble is burst when Susie 
herself informs the audience via voiceover that she will soon be murdered. Immediately after her admission, the film takes a dark turn — and every scene that follows will cause an anxious nausea to creep further up your throat.
Child molester and murderer Mr. Harvey 
The Lovely Bones
STARRING MARK WAHLBERG, SAOIRSE ROMAN, 
RACHEL WEISZ & SUSAN SARANDON
DIRECTED BY PETER JACKSON
RATED PG-1302:15Lesson Learned: Don’t Trust Creepy Men in Corn Fields
See BONES, page 8The last thing Vampire 
Weekend’s sophomore album Contra  could be criticized 
for is a lack of ambition. The Ivy League foursome busted out its encyclopedia of instruments and genres and created 10 crossbred, expertly culled songs. 
These twacked-out hybrids 
range from dancehall to “fourth-wave” ska, African tribal drum-ming to Auto-Tune, indie-pop  to 
deep-house synth. With so much overlap, the whirlwind of jumbled tastes could prove catastrophic — yet somehow the boys of VW manage to create a completely peerless, rhythmic masterpiece. 
After their preppy, bright-eyed 
debut, which included predictable college cuts like “Campus” and “Oxford Comma, ”  one wouldn’t 
expect the new album to reference right-wing Nicaraguan rebels, ’80s Nintendo games, a frothy Mexican rice drink or the text font Futura. But oh, it does.
Whether sampling M.I.A. ’s
 
“Hussel” on “Diplomat’s Son” or taking tips from T-Pain on “California English, ”  these 
unabashed dorks don’t conform to iron-starched polos and cardi-gans no more — instead, they get cultured. “Run” is a flavorful, fast-paced dance number that explodes in African bass drumming, Miami Sound Machine trumpeting and moments of electronic New Wave, even reaching Disney “Circle of Life” sonics at one point. 
“Cousins” begins with clas-
sic ’50s guitars, continues with a thrashy punk baseline and — somewhere in the middle — includes a snippet of “Wipeout” surf rock.
VW’s instrumental spectrum 
may range from marimbas to thumb pianos, harpsichords to synthesizers and Mariachi trum-pets to jittery guitars — but the heartbeat of Contra  is its percus-
sion. Every track has an essence of rapid-fire snare, a deep thudding bass, tribal claps, congas and shak-ers or a dancehall dub — keeping 
this LP faster and fancier.
 Rostam Batmanglij’s produc-
tion skills are leagues ahead of the first release, with riffs that jump and bump where “Oxford Comma” and “Cape Cod Kwassa Kwassa” sailed by unadorned. And the electronic tinge on every cut lends a sense of new weirdness that the boys must have always been working towards. It portends a rich career ahead with overt pre-tension, a scholar’s eye inspiring the work and genuinely peculiar results. One imagines singer Ezra Koenig donning a monocle in his study as he pores over academic papers in one hand, underground mixtapes in the other. It’s a haugh-ty and privileged image, but intel-ligence and chops go a long way.     
Uncovering meaning from 
the dense, obscure lyrics after one listen is challenging, if not impossible. Even after Googling the correct words (and searching “balaclava” on Wikipedia), grasp-ing what the hell VW are getting at is no easy task. But Contra  is worth 
the time and patience — in a gen-eration of one-click-away informa-tion, everyone can access a page of answers. So what happens when four Columbia grads get greedy and want to do it all? Gorgeous sophomore sprawl.
 — Amanda Martinek
& Chris Kokiousis
Senior Staff Writers
e dense, obscure lyrics after 
ne listen is challenging, if not 
mpossible. Even after Googlin g
e correct words (and searching 
alaclava” on Wikipedia), gra sp
-
g what the hell VW are getting a t 
no easy task. Bu t 
Contra
  is worth 
e time and patience — in a gen
-
ation of one-click-awa y informa
 -
on, ever yone can access a pa ge of 
swers. So w hat happens w hen 
four Columbia grads get gree dy 
and want to do it all? Gorgeous
sophomore sprawl.
— 
Amanda Martinek
& Chris Kokiousis
Senior Staff Writers
RONNIE  STEINITZ /GUARDIANthing this wacky, then — for the purposes of this walk-through — I encourage you to put it back on the shelf and pick up something a little easier to follow.
Once you’re finished, sit back and take a 
moment to reflect. Whether or not you realize it, you’ve actually gone through a bit of work.  See, in a comic, you invest a certain portion of your own imagination — as opposed to, say, a film, where you simply receive and interpret what’s being handed to you. A comic is interac-tive and subtly different for everyone, despite the fact that we see the same images and read the same texts. This is because images, by their nature, are emotional stimuli. They evoke visceral responses. And words, by nature, are logical stimuli, interacting with your sense of reason. The combination creates both harmony and conflict, because emotion and reason — though intrinsically linked — rarely go hand in hand.  
Let’s say that, in one panel, a woman is 
slowly brushing her hair, and immediately in the next panel exists a single bubble that says, “Hi… ” .  Given these two panels, we could say that the woman is seducing someone with the brush of her hair and the trail of her word.  
Or, we could say that she’s just woken up 
and is brushing away her ruffled hair to say hello sleepily to a friend. Or, maybe these panels mean absolutely nothing, and are provided merely to place context of a given situation.  Point being: Image of the woman provides context by invoking a particular emotional reaction, and the text will pro-vide a translation for said reaction. Because everyone’s experiences differ, the reaction to the comic will be different for each reader. Assuming you’ve read the comic properly and its actually somewhat decent, you should be feeling something .
Now that you’re familiar with the comic, 
notice that comics, like every other medium, come a variety of genres. Everything from noir to indie, to musical to social and politi-cal — it’s all there. Y ou can find a comic on anything, so long as you look properly.  Some are easier to read, some more difficult. It really depends on the artist. But in general, a worthwhile comic book should feel natural. It should be grand or intimate, or even both. A good comic book should leave you feel-ing fulfilled. If you haven’t experienced any of this, you’re reading a crappy comic. Pick another. Enjoy.▶ HIT, MYVTWHNLStep One: Right to 
Left, You Racist Fool8THE UCSD GUARDIAN  THURSDAY , JANUARY 14, 2010  HIATUS
Oldman), self-appointed ruler of 
a small town of ruffians, straight out Clint Eastwood’s “ A Fistful of Dollars. ”
A testament to history repeat-
ing itself — according to freshman screenwriter Gary Whitta — posta-pocalyptic America will look like one big Wild West showdown. Just substitute tumbleweeds with empty soda cans. 
So it’s up to Eli and his newly 
recruited accomplice, Carnegie’s rebellious stepdaughter Solara (Mila Kunis), to protect the precious book from the enemy and hand-deliver it to safety. Along the way, Eli teaches Solara about the world before her 
generation, where people were waste-ful, and threw away things that others fight over now. Be prepared for some seri-ous environ-mental preach-ing, political forewarning and lessons in morality. 
Well-
intentioned as the doomsday heads-up might be, this cowboy show-down walks 
a thin line between action flick, Sunday-school parable and just plain 
stupid. 
True, the final twist will throw 
even Miss Cleo for a loop. And 
“Eli” is rather striking in terms 
of atmospheric cinematography and computer-generated hues in the vein of “300. ” But with several distracting nods to companies that sponsored our consumer-driven past — Busch Beer, KFC, Apple, General Motors Corp., Kmart and Motorola, to name a few — the film is little more than one expensive 
advertisement.A $2450
value
for only
$650! *
into your
career
ENROLL
TODAY!with a UCSD Extension CertificateUNDERGRADUATES
Most Extension
courses start
during Week 1
or Week 2.CERTIFICATES:
ͻiotech Manufacturing
ͻusiness Analysis
ͻClinicalTrialsAdministra Ɵon
ͻFinancial Analysis
ͻParalegal
ͻPatentandLawProtecƟon
ͻProjectTeamManagement
ͻQuality Assurance/Control Specialist
ͻRegulatory Aīairs
ͻSustainable usiness PracƟces
ͻTechnical Documenta ƟonExtension courses 
provide practical skills 
taught by instructors who 
currently work in their industry.   
extension.ucsd.edu/launch ͮlaunch@ucsd.edu ͮϴϱϴ͘ϴϮϮ͘ϭϰϲϬ
LAUNCH is a program offered by UCSD Extension that enables UCSD Undergraduates to obtain a 
Specialized Certificate in one of a variety career fields at a reduced cost to the student.
* excludes Paralegal
    certificate
A $2450
value
for only
$650! *
3H1VSSH=PSSHNL*PULTHZ
 =PSSH3H1VSSH+YP]L3H1VSSH
  EGNA=K@GOLAE=K
The Imaginarium Of Doctor Parnassus [PG-13, 122min]
Fri 15, Tue 19 – Thu 21: (1:30), (4:15), 7:00,  9:45  Sat 16 – Mon 18: (10:45), 1:30, 4:15, 7:00, 9:45
The Y oung Victoria  [PG, 104min]
Fri 15, Tue 19 – Thu 21: (1:40), (4:25), 7:10, 9:55
Sat 16 – Mon 18: (10:55), 1:40, 4:25, 7:10, 9:55  
A Single Man  [PG-13, 99min]  
Fri 15, Tue 19 – Thu 21: (1:50), 4:35, 7:20, 10:05Sat 16 – Mon 18: (11:05), 1:50, 4:35, 7:20, 10:05
Broken Embraces  [R, 128min]
Fri 15, Tue 19 – Thu 21: (2:10), 5:05, 8:00Sat 16 – Mon 18:  (11:15), 2:10, 5:05, 8:00
www.LandmarkTheatres.com*() DISCOUNT SHOWS*:[HY[PUN[OL^LLRVM-YPKH`1HU\HY`[O
(Stanley Tucci) lurks in the shadows 
of Susie’s carefree life, setting up each moment as potentially Susie’s last. It is during these instants of paranoia that director Peter Jackson shows off his mastery of deep screen-to-audience tension.
As much as we wish it wouldn’t, 
Susie’s fated murder finally occurs one evening after school, when she’s walking home through a corn-field and meets her evidently kind neighbor. He then lures her into a self-built clubhouse out of sight and sound, where he rapes and kills her.
Kids: don’t talk to strangers.Cleverly juxtaposing reality and 
fantasy as Susie’s life slips out of her grasp, Jackson chooses to replace what would be a gruesome act of violence with a journey through “the in-between” — a not-quite-heaven magical world of vivid color and psychedelic imaginatives.
It is in this limbo that Jackson 
showcases the same outrageous special effects and supernatural ele-ments that made “Lord of the Rings” a household name: Fields melt into oceans, seasons change when you turn the corner and ice sculptures the size of skyscrapers survey you from above. From the in-between, Susie 
desperately tries to reach out to the mourning parents (Mark Wahlberg and Rachel Weisz) she left behind, in hopes she can lead them to her murderer. 
The soundtrack provides 
“Bones” with a strong skeleton, adding intensity to each scene with heartbeat-mimicking rhythm and innocent skip-to-my-loo melodies. It also makes the film’s moments of dead silence absolutely unforget-table.
Although Wahlberg shines as 
Susie’s passionate father whose obsession with finding his daughter nearly leads him to the edge of mad-ness — and newcomer Ronan can 
say a thousand words with her eyes 
alone — their character development seems fairly inadequate for a story of such emotional turmoil. Through the traumatic event itself and the heartbreak that follows, the narrative never fully dives into the family’s struggle to cope.  
All in all, “Bones” is a chilling 
film. Lucky for us, Jackson doesn’t 
dwell on how awful and sad the 
story is, but instead focuses on a final optimism: In death there is new life, and with tragedy there is oppor-tunity for love.
▶ BONES, MYVTWHNLAn Afterschool Nightmare in DisguiseALBUMREVIEW
With a five-year gap between 2005’s Oh No and Of the Blue 
Colour of the Sky , Chicago natives OK Go — famous for that 
Y ouTube-hyped treadmill dance routine — left fans eagerly 
awaiting their latest release.
And they disappoint.Paisley-clad lead singer Damian  Kulash is the too-sweet anom-
aly child of the Shins and the Strokes, if Uncle Garfunkel used to read him disturbing fairy tales by candlelight. Needless to say, the band isn’t afraid to get weird — but weird doesn’t always mean awesome.
First single “WTF?” sees Kulash break trough the track as if he’s 
wandered into the studio after a day of communing with hippies and snapping his fingers in a coffee shop — surprised by the fancy equipment but deciding just to go with it. His satisfyingly smooth lyrics are layered over a mixture of electro-beats and guitar, chant-ing, “ Are you some kind of dark sorcerer/ Am I under some kind of spell?”
The opening cut, however, is not a harbinger  of things to come. 
Blowing sexy oddities to the wind, the band veers into over-senti-mental territory, stating the obvious — “Y ou don’t get much dumber than/ Trying to forget a girl when you love her” — and comparing the fall of the sky to the end of a relationship. Gush. Barf.
It’s a mediocre ride all the way through — and even though 
gems like “White Knuckles” lend some funky drums and hand-claps, Of the  Blue differs leaves behind the catchy tenacity of fame-
makers like “Here It Goes Again” and finds itself in a Michael Bolton disco-holiday phase.
Change is inevitable, but we can’t help wishing OK Go could 
zap back to that glorious age when their indie-pop inspired tread-mill jazzercise sessions across the nation.
 — Neelaab Nasraty
Senior Staff WriterOK Go
Of the Blue Colour of the Sky
CAPITOL 5
10
Druggy YouTube Phenoms Snag the EmmyYoung Shoegazers Give 
Way to Dreams of  Pop
▶ ELI, MYVTWHNLThe End of  the World As We Know It
A testament 
to history repeating itself — according to freshman screenwriter Gary Whitta — postapocalyptic  America will look like one big Wild West showdown. Just substitute tumbleweeds with empty soda cans.FILMREVIEWS
We’re fresher, tastier, and healthier. He gets it, you should too.
3FHFOUT1J[[FSJBtCall For Local Delivery 858-550-0406 
www.regentspizza.com3FHFOUT1BSL3PXt-B+PMMB$""Mouth washed, 
conditioned, blow 
dried, CHECK!  Ready 
for my delicious slice of 
pizza from Regents, 
DOUBLE CHECK!"
10% OFF
YOUR TO TAL BILL
when you present your UCSD ID & this ad
La Jolla Village Dr.
Villa La Jolla Dr.Holiday Ct.UCSD
3211 Holiday Ct. #102
Freshly made Vietnamese
Rice Noodle Soup
Steak, Chicken, Shrimp, Tofu, Veggie 
Steamed Rice Combos
6ERMICELLI NOODLES s %GGROLLS
3PRING 2OLLS s $ESSERT $RINKS
%80)2%3 which Asobi more lightly treads the reverb-free 
clouds of dream-pop than immerse themselves in the special effects of shoegaze — giving Chikudate new power behind the mic. The objective has switched to unfolding an epic, where before they focused on creating the woozy ambiance in which an epic story could unfold.
On Hush ’s “In the Sky, ” background sound is 
almost minimalistic — a simple beat, a keening guitar chord — far from the churning feedback of albums past. By tearing down the wall, every-thing still here becomes more: the lyrics more meaningful, the sparse instruments more conse-quential by sheer dint of rarity. 
It’s Rewolf , however — a direct preview 
of Friday’s acoustic show — that unveils the grandest evolutions. Their best songs stripped to the core, Asobi stay beautiful and reveal themselves as more than some exotic warbles hiding beneath noise pop. 
Of course, Chikudate’s lilting voice and psy-
chedelic lyrics remain — she still yowls about acidic attic bees on “Familiar Light” — but interpretation shifts radically between the two incarnations. In its original grungy shell, the song is a delirious anthem to hallucinations of apathy; whittled down, it is haunting and melancholic — like the tune from a music box belonging to a sad girl. 
So it goes with Rewolf , and their new live 
show. Studio tricks and complex textures in the past, Asobi becomes nothing more than Chikudate’s airy vocals set to guitar and drums. All tracks are slowed and sweetened, every word entirely discernable — unlike the glos-solalia of albums past — rising to the surface as forgettably pretty guitars swirl down the glass.▶ ASOBI, MYVTWHNLNEWS THURSDAY , JANUARY 14, 2010  THE UCSD GUARDIAN 9 
decreasing funding for prisons by 
outsourcing aspects of jail mainte-nance to private companies. Instead, that money would be funneled into higher education, and public uni-versities like the UC system would receive a minimum of 10 percent of the General Fund by 2014.
Schwarzenegger’s plan is a depar-
ture from the current budget, under which higher education receives 7.5 percent of total state funds and pris-ons receive 11 percent. Ten years ago, universities received closer to 10 percent, compared to the peniten-tiary system’s 3 percent.
“[Back then,] the state’s invest-
ment in a UC student was twice as much as it is today, ” UC Vice President for Budget Patrick Lenz said. “In 1990, the state provided around $15,000 per student. And today, it’s about $7,500 per student. ”
According to Lance Corocan, 
chief communications officer for the California Correctional Police Officers Association, the governor’s plan is not without flaws.
For one thing, he said, it intro-
duces market forces and profit as motivational factors in running a prison. He added that privatization would probably increase spending in the long run.
“It’s been proven throughout the experiment of privatization that cost savings are illusory, ” Corocan said. “[The Governor] is trying to pres-ent a very simple solution to a very complex problem — one that people have been trying to figure out for the last 300 to 400 years. ”
According to UC Berkeley 
professor of public policy John Ellwood, privatizing prisons would mean contracting out to cheaper, non-unionized prison guards, in order to circumvent the pricier CCPOA guards. In addition, the policy might force the state to grant parolees more leeway in meeting with officers — reducing the num-ber of individuals put back in jail after being released.
“In California, if you miss one 
appointment with your parole offi-cer, you’re automatically sent back to prison, ” Ellwood said. “In other states, you have two or three chances if you miss something. So, another way to cut costs is to take people [who have committed] less violent crimes and essentially get them on the street, assuming they won’t hurt people … If you have fewer prison-ers, you’ll spend less money. ”
By reducing prison costs, 
Schwarzenegger said he hopes to free up money for the UC and CSU systems without creating any addi-tional taxes.As it stands, the UC system 
received only 13 percent — or $2.6 billion — of its funding from the state in the 2009-10 academic year. The rest came from sources like fed-eral research grants, private dona-tions and student fees.
The governor’s proposed 2010-
2011 budget, released on Jan. 8, would increase the amount the state gives to university by $370 million, to about $3 billion.
According to Lenz, the amend-
ment would provide an additional $1.6 billion in annual state funding, to be shared between the UC and CSU systems.
“It depends on the growth in the 
General Fund budget, so it’s hard to estimate, ” Lenz said. “The point that we want to hold onto is at least the recognition that more money needs to be provided for higher education. ”
According to UC spokesperson 
Leslie Sepuka, it is too early to say whether this additional state fund-ing would allow for a decrease in student fees.
Schwarzenegger’s amendment, 
while at the forefront of budgetary discussion at the moment, is not the only recent government action aimed at increasing funding for higher education. Assembly Leader Alberto Torrico (D–Freemont) recently drafted a bill that would create an excise tax on gas produced in California, then give the revenue exclusively to universities.
“If you think that higher educa-
tion needs more money, there’s one of two ways to do it, ” Ellwood said. “One way is to increase taxation, and the other way is to essentially get money from other parts of the budget. ”
Such systems already exist in 
states like Texas, which uses 25 per-cent of the revenue accumulated by a similar excise tax on gas to fund its university system. The Torrico Initiative — also known as Bill AB 656 — passed in the state assembly on Jan. 12, and is currently under debate in the Senate. 
UCOP Academic Senator 
Henry Powell said that even if Schwarzenegger’s amendment never reaches fruition, it is nonetheless encouraging to see educational funding being discussed as a prior-ity by the state. 
“When the state stops investing 
in education, it stops investing in its future, ” Powell said. “In 2025, we are going to need a million more degrees than we are ready to deliv-er … There’s an asymmetry there, between the needs of the state and the direction things are going. It’s a huge crisis. ”
Readers can contact Hayley Bisceglia-
Martin at hbiscegl@ucsd.edu.
One University Drive, Orange 
888-CU-APPLY .714-997-6711
www.chapman.edu/intlstudiesNOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR FALL 2010

	
 		
		MASTER OF ARTS
INTERNATIONAL STUDIES
In today’s global environment, expertise in international affairs
is essential to understanding the contemporary world.
The Chapman University Master of Arts in International Studies is a two-year,
full-time, interdisciplinary course of study designed to train students seekinga career in U.S. Foreign Service, the United Nations (U.N.), U.N.–specializedagencies, or international non-governmental organizations (NGOs). Our programis well-rounded with academic and practical training, professional and regional
tracks, international internships and hands-on experience for today’s world.
For more information, contact Dr. James Coyle, program director, at 714-744-7074
or coyle@chapman.edu.
-`XMZ\[+WVKMZVML7^MZ*]LOM\IZa)UMVLUMV\"8ZQ^I\QbML8ZQ[WV[ ?W]TL)TTW_NWZ8ZWNQ\MMZQVO
▶ AMENDMENT, from page 1
HIGHER EDUCATION PRISONS
2000
201010% 3%
7.5% 11%
7%201410%NO LESS THAN NO MORE THAN
POSITIONS
AVAILABLE FOR
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE ONLINE ATWORK FOR
THE GUARDIANSITIO
F BL
AB A ONEFOSITION
ABLE FOR
VAILABLE ONLINE ATINFORMATIONAL MEETING FRIDAY , JAN. 22 @ 4 P .M. ON THE 
SECOND FLOOR OF THE OLD STUDENT CENTERWRITERS
ILLUSTRATORSCOPY READERSPHOTOGRAPHERSLAYOUT DESIGNERSWWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGSTATE BUDGET
UNDER SCHWARZENEGGER’S PROPOSALGuardian Classifieds are placed online and are FREE for UCSD. Low cost classified placements for our print 
edition are also available to the UCSD campus and the public at   ucsdguardian.campusave.com
Guardian Classifieds are placed online and are FREE for UCSD. Low cost classified placements for our print edition are also available to the UCSD campus and the public at   
ucsdguardian.campusave.comCLASSIFIEDS THURSDAY, JANUARY 14, 2010 10THE UCSD GUARDIAN
Level:12 3 4
Level:123 4
Level:1 234
Level:1 2 3 4Level:
12
3 4Level:
12
3 4
Level:
1 2
34Level:
1 2
34
Find the Sudoku solution in this Tuesday's Classifieds Page 
Complete the grid so
each row, column and3-by-3 box (in boldborders) containsevery digit, 1 to 9. Forstrategies on how tosolve Sudoku, visitwww.sudoku.org.uk
SOLUTION TO
SATURDAY’S PUZZLELevel:
1 2
3 4
© 2009 The Mepham Group. Distributed by
Tribune Media Services. All rights reserved.9/14/09Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on 
how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.uk
1/11/10 Crossword Solution
Level:12 3 4
Level:123 4
Level:1 234
Level:1 2 3 4Level:
12
3 4Level:
12
3 4
Level:
1 2
34Level:
1 2
34
UCSDGUARDIAN.CAMPUSAVE.COMSTUDENT HOUSING
ROOM, PRIVATE BATH & PRIVATE 
LIVING ROOM FOR RENT - Room  w/ private bath & living room for quiet, responsible, employed person. Allied Gardens. Washer/dryer Many extras. $975 + 1/2 utilities. Must love dogs. No drugs, smoking, children, pets, partiers or sleepovers. pawsforcomfort@gmail.com (1/19)
JOBS
Part-time Admn. Asst. Psychiatrist 
office. Adjacent to 
campus on UCSD shuttle route. 
Ten to fifteen hours/week. Hours flexible between 8:30am – 2:30pm, weekdays. Looking for an organized, detailed oriented person comfortable interacting with patients. Computer literate. Character/work reference 
required. Will train to use medical billing software. Starting wage $8/hour. Wage raised after successful completion of training. E-mail resumes to wachsmanmd@sbcglobal.net (1/25) 
Intern Position at Carmel Valley 
Investment Banking Group; Gain exposure to private equity, public companies, investor relations. Fast paced. web dev & I-net mktg skills a plus. (858) 456-7300 or resume to cc@sdthc.com  (1/21) 
UCSD BLOOD DONOR ALLERGY 
STUDY: Subjects with current allergy symptoms to inhaled 
allergens (cat, grass, dust 
mite), needed as blood donors for research study requiring donation of blood and allergy skin testing. Will be reimbursed $100 for completion of two clinic visit study. Contact Dr. 
PROGRAMUCSD GUARDIAN
• event planning • marketing
• promotions • public relations
• advertising • design
APPLY NOWon Port Triton
JOB# 726444
Broide, Department Medicine 
(858) 534-2033. (4/8)
SERVICES
HARLOW HAIRSALON in La 
Jolla -50% ON WEDNESDAYS ! Haircuts, styles ,colors and hi-lights are HALF price on wednesdays with a UCSD I.D. www.harlowhairsalon.com Call 858-459-0642. (1/28)
ONLINETRAVELDEALS$199 & up:
Downtown New York 
Marriott Deals & Packages
$129 & up:
The Signature at MGM 
Grand with Luxury Suites
$369 & up:  
All-Inclusive Caribbean & 
Mexico Vacations w/Air
CLICK ON
“TRAVEL DEALS”
AT THE TOPSPORTS THURSDAY , JANUARY 14, 2010  THE UCSD GUARDIAN 11 
The win marked UCSD’s third 
straight five-set victory over the 
Gauchos.
Senior Erik Sierks played as  setter 
for UCSD and facilitated a .368 team hitting average by delivering 68 assists. Junior Joel Davidson had nine kills and 
five digs off the bench.
After downing 53 kills at the 
competition, Fritsch  has passed the 
1,000-kills mark in his career with the Tritons. 
“My goal is to do better than last 
year and take my team further and into the playoffs, ” Fritsch said.  “We’ve never 
made it into the playoffs. We got close last season, so that’s our goal. ”
The Tritons will open the Mountain 
Pacific Sports Federation Jan. 13 when they travel to Northridge to face No. 2 Cal State Northridge (3-0). UCSD then travels back to Santa Barbara to face No. 14 UCSB (0-3). 
The team has lost in its last four 
MPSF openers. The last conference-opener victory was in 2004 against USC.
Readers can contact Jessy Jahangir at 
fjahangi@ucsd.edu.
Many of the day’s races were 
contested down to the final stroke, but none more so than the men’s 50-yard freestyle. Senior Daniel Perdew, for-mer Male Swimmer of the NCAA Champions Meet, set a season best in the race, but lost by two-hundredths of a second.
“The [50-yard freestyle] is 
always kind of an interesting race, ” McGihon said. “It’s whoever hits their start and turn [who] is usually going to be the one who comes out winning the 50, and Perdew was a little slow off the blocks today. ”
However, more often than not, 
the Tritons came out on top in close races. Senior Jereme Barnett-Woods won the 500-yard freestyle by six-tenths of a second with a time of 4:41.13; sophomore Natasha Nguyen won the 200-yard freestyle (1:57.35) by less than a second; senior Todd Langland won the 100-yard freestyle (46.71) by one-tenths of a second and freshman Jon Masehi-Lano won the 200-yard breaststroke (2:07.65) by three seconds — despite being behind after the first 100 yards. 
Even with a strew of terrific fin-
ishes, junior captain Kyle Begovich said the Tritons know they still have areas to improve on before season-ending conference and NCAA championships roll around.
“We have to be mentally strong, ” 
he said. “Sometimes we race teams that are not as good, so we have to be mentally strong and compete at our level, even if it means we’re rac-ing our own teammates and not the other team. ”
The Tritons face off against 
cross-town rival the University of San Diego on Jan. 16 at Canyonview Pool in a showdown for San Diego superiority.
“Last year was a really close meet 
and we just barely won, ” junior cap-tain Anju Shimura said. “I know it’s going to be a good meet again, but hopefully we just work out hard this week and get through the workouts. ”
Despite its home victories, the 
team has to move on to mentally preparing for USD according to senior captain Cari Cunningham.
“USD is another one of our big 
rivals, ” she said. “So just like our meet yesterday, we have to focus on the day and forget about all the meets we’ve had in the past. ”
Readers can contact Tyler Nelson at 
tcnelson@ucsd.edu.celebratory atmosphere in the stadium I witnessed that day was unlike any I’ve ever experienced — it’s completely unique to the World Cup.
The latest installment, hosted 
by Germany in 2006, was especially unforgettable. The tournament was run with a measure of efficiency that typified its German hosts, and reflect-ed the modern state of the sport. The footballing community was welcomed into Germany to watch the matches in state-of-the-art stadiums in well-organized cities.
The players on the pitch did not 
disappoint. We came away from the 2006 World Cup with images that are now indelibly ingrained into the hearts and minds of all soccer fans. The image of French footballing icon Zinadine Zidane — arguably the greatest player in the modern game — being sent off for his infamous “head-butt heard ‘round the world” on the Italian central defender Marco Materazzi will forever live on in the folklore of the sport.
This year, the world’s gaze will turn 
to South Africa for its once-in-every-four year footballing feast, and the tournament has made history before the first ball has even been kicked. The 2010 World Cup marks the first time that an African country will host the competition, and FIFA ’s decision to bestow the honor upon South Africa to host its prestigious tourna-ment sends a greater message. The decision recognizes the progress the country has made, and provides it an opportunity to showcase itself to the world as an emerging, developing bea-con of hope in Africa. Additionally, it demonstrates FIFA ’s intention of expanding the sport in the continent, and recognizing Africa as an emerg-ing footballing region.
The 2010 World Cup is effectively 
South Africa’s coming-out party on the world stage. So dawn your favor-ite team’s jersey, hit the pub and bask in the glory that June and July will provide.8W[\?QV[<ZQ\WV[;M\;QOP\[WV+ZW[[<W_V:Q^IT[
▶ SWIVE, MYVTWHNL▶ M. VOLLEYBALL, MYVTWHNL
TIMOTHY  WONG /GUARDIAN
UCSD claimed 20 victories in 28 events against Grand Canyon University and the University of the Incarnate Word on Jan. 10. The  meet was the women’s 
second in two days while the first for the men since Jan. 2.  Next, the Tritons will face the University of San Diego, a match-up that was close last year.  
<ZQ\WV[<W7XMV+WVNMZMVKM8TIa
WV:WIL)OIQV[\+;=6WZ\PZQLOM
▶ KICKS, MYVTWHNL;W]\P)NZQKI<ISM[+MV\MZ;\IOM)[0W[\WN;WKKMZ-`\ZI^IOIVbI
tight
budget?cheap
advertising!
reserve your spot now!
www.ucsdguardian.orgcall 858.534.346750% OFF
GUARDIAN ADS!
$100 WEB ADS
FOR A MONTH! WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG/SPORTS
;87:<;THURSDAY , JANUARY 14, 2010
+76<)+<<0--,1<7:" sports@ucsdguardian.org12 THE UCSD GUARDIAN
HOTCORNER
FRANK FRITSCH | VOLLEYBALL
The senior opposite hitter led the Tritons in kills at last 
weekend’s tournament. Fritsch smashed 53 kills, pushing his career total to 1,044 and making him the fourth most prolific hitter in UCSD history.AROUND THE LEAGUE
With a 99-90 victory over the 
Washington Wizards, the Detroit Pistons  snapped a 13-game losing streak — the longest since the team’s 1993-94 season.  During the stretch, the Pistons lost by 20 or more points four times.
?WZTL+]X"
<PM:MIT
5QL[]UUMZ
+TI[[QK
In this tumultuous life, the only 
constant is change.  Everything in the modern world — from 
political theater to vacuum-cleaning technology — is ever-transforming. However, without fail, every four years, life grants the global community one single month of reprieve — an oppor-tunity to rid ourselves of daily preoccu-pations and join together for the single greatest sporting spectacle known to man: the FIFA World Cup.
For the last three-and-a-half years, 
fans worldwide have been forced to lay dormant their eager anticipation for the global showdown. However, now that 2010 is officially half a month old and the World Cup year is finally here, football fanatics worldwide — myself included — can hardly restrain their excitement for the impending pinnacle of the best game on Earth.
However, in this country, due to 
soccer’s lack of media attention, I can’t help but feel like I am one of a small population who view the sport for the great athletic contests it is — not a sport for cheats and play-actors.
My affinity for the sport of soccer 
began when I, like almost every kid in this country, joined a team in my local youth leagues. But, unlike most of my friends — so quick to abandon soc-cer for the likes of more mainstream sports — my interest persevered. Since then it’s grown to be a very important part of my life.
The 1994 World Cup, hosted in the 
U.S., was the first time I could con-sciously follow the competition. From there on out, I’ve been completely entranced by everything soccer. When Germany played the U.S. in Palo Alto, Calif., at Stanford University that sum-mer, I was there before the marvel. Even at eight years old, it was impos-sible not to goggle at the euphoric atmosphere that the World Cup spec-tacle created. An amalgamation of col-ors painted the stands of the stadium. Drunk German fans exchanged play-ful verbal jabs with Americans, while a fervent nationalistic pride pulsated like electricity through the stands. The 
TRITONS COME OUT WITH A KILL
Jessy Jahangir
Contributing Writer
MEN’S VOLLEYBALL —  After completing 
their most successful season in school history last year, the Tritons returned to action on Jan. 7 and Jan. 8 at the 46th Annual Santa Barbara Invitational at UC Santa Barbara, where they placed seventh and picked up their first win of the 2009-10 season.
This year’s team is stacked with accom-
plished players like senior Frank Fritsch, who led the 2009 Triton team with 366 kills. Fritsch’s 1,044 career kills rank him fourth in school history. Senior Jason Spangler, who has totaled 1,171 kills in his career, is on his way to becoming the all-time career kills leader. He has only to best former Tritons Tom Black (1,268 kills) and Jim Waller (1,301 kills). 
One more player on the career-kills chart 
is junior Will Ehrman, whose 633 place him at 14th. Junior Phil Bannan has raked up 2,229 career assists, placing him at fourth on the list of all-time career assists at UCSD. 
Prior to his injury, junior Adrian Guthals 
set the single-season record for hitting percent-age with a .442 clip.
Going into the Santa Barbara Invitational as 
a major underdog, No. 11 UCSD started with a 2-1 lead against No. 10 UCLA in its first match.  However, the team ultimately lost to UCLA 30-24, 24-30, 26-30, 31-29, 15-8. 
Over the course of the match, Ehrman col-
lected 17 kills and five digs. Fritsch had 15 kills and freshman Cyrus Kiani had 11; sophomore  
Andrew Kaban was right behind with 10 digs, and Guthals tallied four blocks. Bannan lent 49 assists.
Despite jumping out to the quick lead, 
UCSD couldn’t capitalize in a tight fourth  game and didn’t have an answer for the Bruins’ offense in the deciding game.
In their second match-up of the day, the 
Tritons lost to No. 3 UC Irvine 30-28, 22-30, 30-26, 30-21. Spangler  led the way with 16 kills. 
On the second day of the tournament, 
UCSD won its first two sets against No. 14 hosts UCSB and held on for a 30-22, 30-27, 29-31, 26-30, 15-11 victory. Fritsch led the way with 27 kills on .347 hitting. Ehrman had 17 kills on .519 hitting and Kiani had 14 kills without an error on .667 hitting. 
Tyler Nelson
Staff Writer
SWIMMING & DIVING  — 
Building off a smashing start to 
their  season, the UCSD men’s and women’s swim and dive teams came out with confidence on Jan. 10 at Canyonview Pool, claiming victo-ries over Grand Canyon University and the University of the Incarnate Word. The men’s team defeated GCU 197-84 and UIW 189-109; the women defeated GCU 229-54 and UIW 220-74.
Despite their victories, head 
coach Scott McGihon said he still sees room for improvement in the 
teams’ mental preparedness.
“One thing we need to work on 
— and we showed that today — is 
our mental focus, ” head coach Scott McGihon said. “It’s not where it needs to be. The athletes are going to have to figure [out] that only they can make themselves focus mentally. That’s the missing component. ”
Despite their coach’s critique, the 
Tritons still pulled away with two solid victories over teams they may be facing again in the NCAA meet.
“It feels good to get the win, ” 
senior captain Andy Islip said. “We’re charging up for conference championship, and so every meet is just more practice. We’re fine-tuning our strokes and techniques and get-ting out all the kinks. ”
At the meet, the Tritons placed at 
least two swimmers in the top three spots over 16 races, winning 20 races overall. The victors included sopho-
more Alex Henley, who earned a 
NCAA-qualifying time of 2:05.77 in the 200-yard butterfly event. 
Sophomore diver Patrick Cohen 
qualified for the NCAA tournament in the one-meter diving event with his performance.
“Getting to nationals feels amaz-
ing, ” Cohen said. “This is everything I’ve been working toward. I feel like 
this year I was more focused. I just 
wanted to make nationals even more because I didn’t make nationals last year. ”
;?155-:;:)+-8);</+=)6,=1?16;=6,)A;5);0
TIMOTHY  WONG /GUARDIAN
In the Jan. 10 meet against Grand Canyon University and the University of the Incarnate Word, the 
UCSD swimming and diving team placed at least two swimmers in the top three spots over 16 events.JOHN  HANACEK /GUARDIAN
Sophomores Alex 
Henley and Patrick Cohen earned automatic bids to nationalsthis Sunday.
See KICKS page 11See M. VOLLEYBALL page 11
See SWIVE page 11SETS
KILLS
ASSISTS
BLOCKS
HIT %
ACESUCLA UCSD
3
65
6511
.282
7MATCH #1
2
595910
.199
7SETS
KILLS
ASSISTS
BLOCKS
HIT %
ACESUCI UCSD
3
7272
9
.372
7MATCH #2
1
6161
7
.319
5SETS
KILLS
ASSISTS
BLOCKS
HIT %
ACESUCSB UCSD
2
6663
8.5
.287
10MATCH #3
3
837811
.368
4:(5;()(9)(9(05=0;(;065(3
Just
VISHAL NATARAJAN
vnataraj@ucsd.eduKicksfor
ANNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNN
