:762,5 :762,5 :<9-9,769; 05:0+, 50./;>(;*/
THURSDAY
Height:  5-8 ft.
Wind: 4-16 mph
Water Temp: 60 FFRIDAY
Height:  6 ft.
Wind: 4-9 mph
Water Temp: 60 F
SATURDAY
Height:  5 ft.
Wind: 7-10 mph 
Water Temp: 60 FSUNDAY
Height:  6 ft.
Wind: 2-9 mph 
Water Temp: 60 FLOW
$2.87
On the Go Gas, El Cajon
Second & Madison
HIGH
$3.79
76, Point Loma
1704 Rosecrans St. & Nimitz Blvd.THURSDAY FRIDAYTHURSDAY
H 66 L 46FRIDAY
H 68 L 50 THURSDAY FRIDAY.(:7,9.(3365 :<9-9,769; 50./;>(;*/ -69,*(:;
 >,)7633
DO YOU KNOW HOW TO WITHDRAW YOUR FEES FROM A.S.?
√  Yes
√  No:<590:,
:<5:,;6:02  A.M.
5:54  P .M.
SATURDAY
H 62 L 48SUNDAY
H 69 L 50
FRIDAYDDD
SUNDAY SATURDAYAdmin.ProposeMeal-PointIncrease
Head of dining program moves to raise minimum meal plan to make up for rising costs.
4QJZIZQIV[
6MOW\QI\M
0QOPMZ8Ia
By Anqi Chen
Staff Writer
On Feb. 25, the University of 
California’s librarians’ union signed a 
new labor contract guaranteeing higher salaries, benefits and improved job secu-rity for more than 400 UC librarians.
Despite a state fiscal crisis, and bud-
get cuts plaguing the campuses, the University of California Office of the President and the University Council-American Federation of Teachers reached a tentative agreement on Dec. 19, 2009 which ensures salary increases, severance packages and a larger budget for profes-sional development activities. The agree-ment was then approved by the UC-AFT Librarian Unit. 
Librarians will now receive a five-per-
cent salary increase each time they are pro-moted. Promotions are subject to a peer review process every two to three years. 
The UCOP agreed to increase the 
systemwide training budget by 3 per-cent — or a total of $8,217. At UCSD, the amount allocated to development — which allows librarians to attend con-ferences and receive training to advance By Hayley Bisceglia-Martin
News Editor
The Department of Housing, 
Dining and Hospitality will vote on a proposal this week to increase manda-tory dining dollars by $100 next year, despite evidence that most students 
living in the residence halls will be left with excess by the end of Spring Quarter.
Students living in 
the residence halls currently pay $2,795 a year in dining dol-
lars, while students in the apartments pay $2,145. According to the 2009-10 recommended budget — published in each dining hall by Housing, Dining and Hospitality services — by March 4, students in residence halls should have $1,077 remaining and those in the apartments should have $824 left.
Instead, 74.1 percent of students 
living in the residence halls — who have $82 per week to spend — are above the targeted amount of meal points, while only 10.5 percent are below target. Twenty-three percent of students living in the apartments — who have $63 to spend per week — are above target, 37 percent are below.
According to A.S. Representative 
for the On-Campus Housing Dining and Hospitality Committee Wafa Ben Hassine, members of the advi-
See LIBRARIES page 7See DINING page 6By Angela Chen
News Editor
The three-week media freeze — ordered by A.S. 
President Utsav Gupta on Feb. 19 — was lifted at Wednesday’s A.S. council meeting, after the council voted 5-13-5 to fail a last-minute amendment that pro-
posed a government speech model. The model would have allowed the council to fund — through advertise-ments — only the media organizations they deemed to uphold the UCSD Principles of Community. 
According to the A.S. Standing 
Rules, a funding freeze is automatically lifted by Wednesday of Week 10 if the council doesn’t pass legislation that counters that rule. By default, council returned to funding media organizations with the same system as before. 
Gupta froze all media funds after a racial slur was 
aired on an episode of Koala TV , preventing campus media publications from accessing their Winter and Spring Quarter funds. He then chartered a committee to discuss new media guidelines that prevent funding hate speech.
Committee members considered two main alterna-
tives: a government-speech model and an opt-out model, which would allow students to remove their student fee funding from certain publications. 
The committee failed to make an official recommen-
dation or submit any written legislation, with the excep-tion of a Standing Rules amendment — submitted by Vice President of Finance and Resources Peter Benesch — to implement the government-speech model. 
Benesch’s model found support from students who 
called for the council to defund the Koala  and UC 
Student Regent delegate Jesse Cheng. 
“We stand for this protocol because this issue is an 
issue of diversity and not really an issue of free speech and even less an issue of the Constitution, ” Cheng said. “If it does come down to legality, it’s the Supreme Court’s responsibility to constitutionality — you don’t have to worry about that here. ”
The amendment also created backlash among com-
mittee members who were not aware that Benesch 
IN LOVING 
MEMORY
A student at York 
Plaza in Revelle 
College silently 
set up a display 
of hundreds of 
toy soldiers. 
Passersby who 
inquired recieved 
a business card 
with the name 
Spc. Tyler R. 
Walshe printed 
on it. Walshe was 
a 21-year-old 
soldier killed by a 
roadside bomb on 
Aug. 31, 2009 in
Afghanistan..]VL[:M[\WZML\W
;\]LMV\8ZM[[
Funding freeze is mandatorily lifted 
from media orgs, as council fails to provide a crowd-pleasing alternative.
See MEDIA page 7OPINION
The freeze is 
over, but the discussion shouldn’t stop. 
PAGE 4OPINION
We’re already loading up on overpriced fruit like money ain’t a thang.
PAGE 4
ANDREW  OH/GUARDIAN
THURSDAY , MARCH 11, 2010 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG VOLUME XLII, ISSUE XXXX
JOHN  HANACEK /GUARDIAN
WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
57;<=6,-::)<-,
Speaking as someone who winces at 
the name Wes Anderson, I have to give it to him: His shit may be fucking kitsch and overrated, but “Fantastic Mr. Fox” wasn’t half bad.
If anything, Anderson’s stop-
motion, miniature marvel was unfairly eclipsed because of the cutesy iron curtain trailing “Up” (whose reviews were as bloated as its anima-tion), or because it came packaged as a children’s movie. Whatever the rea-son, “Fantastic Mr. Fox” didn’t get its due distinction this year. It managed to be endearing without begging for 
sentimen-tal spare change and as 
charming as its dapper, tweed-tailored protagonist could hope to be. 
Building off Roald Dahl’s puck-
ish prose and pigeonholed band of 
burrowing creatures 
(wrapped in a thinly 
veiled class critique), the 
film manages to textur-
ize the book with 
handcrafted, pop-
up panache. 
And while Anderson’s typical strategy for communicat-
ing character 
depth usually 
relies on quirky 
mannerisms, 
this time 
around, it iron-
ically didn’t feel 
as childish.
—Edwin
Gonzalez
Senior Staff
Writer
¹.)6<);<1+ 
5:.7@º>/,530),9;0,:*6330+,THE EIGHTH
ANNUALANTI-OSCARS
PAGE 8
*VTPJZ
5L^)\ZPULZZ/LHK4LL[Z.YV\UK3L[[LYZ[V[OL,KP[VY+Y\[OLYZ*SHZZPÄLKZ:\KVR\2 THE UCSD GUARDIANTHURSDAY , MARCH 11, 2010NEWS
Page Layout
;YL]VY*V_9LNPUH0W,TPS`2\(YPLSSL:HSSHP5HVTP
:OPMMTHU;LYLZH;YPUO:PTVUL>PSZVU
4VUPJH)HJOTLPLY
4PRL4HY[PULa
(SMYLKV/=PSHUV1Y
9VI*VYLH
,]HU*VVRGeneral Manager
Advertising ManagerAdvertising Art DirectorMarketing Team LeaderNetwork Administrator              :PTVUL>PSZVU
(S`ZZH)LYLaUHR
9LaH-HYHaTHUK
:TY\[P(YH]PUK
2LSZL`4HYY\QV
/H`SL`)PZJLNSPH4HY[PU
(UNLSH*OLU
(`LSL[)P[[VU
;YL]VY*V_
*OLY`S/VYP
=PZOHS5H[HYHQHU
4H[[*YVZRL`
,K^PU.VUaHSLa
(WYPSSL4\ZJHYH
1LUUH)YVNHU
4H[[OL^7LJV[
,YPR1LWZLU
1VOU/HUHJLR
,TPS`2\
*OYPZ[PUH(\ZOHUH
7OPSPW9OPL
:HYP;OH`LY
5PJVSL;LP_LPYHEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
Copy EditorsNews EditorsAssociate News Editor
Opinion EditorAssociate Opinion EditorSports EditorAssociate Sports EditorFocus EditorAssociate Focus EditorHiatus EditorAssociate Hiatus EditorPhoto EditorAssociate Photo EditorDesign EditorArt Editors
Web Editor
Training and Development
Student Marketing and Events
@LSLUH(RVWPHU+HYH)\2PYI`2VV
:OHUUVU>PU[LY:OH^U?\
Business Assistant
;PMMHU`/HU
Advertising Design and Layout 
)YHUKVU*O\,]HU*VVR2PT*VVWLY
Distributors
(SHYPJ)LYT\KLa:HS.HSSHNVZ:JV[[/H]YPZPR
<*:+.<(9+0(569.;OL<*:+.\HYKPHU
 .PSTHU+YP]L
3H1VSSH*(  Copy Readers
(T`.\aKHY4VUPJH/HPKLY1VUH[OHU2PT
4HZOH:VRVSV]5HVTP:^LV(UP[H=LYNPZ1V`JL@LO
Web Designers
1HRL:JOULPKLY1LUU`;>HUN
;OL<*:+ .\HYKPHU  PZ W\ISPZOLK 4VUKH`Z HUK
;O\YZKH`ZK\YPUN[OLHJHKLTPJ`LHYI`<*:+Z[\KLU[Z
HUK MVY [OL <*:+ JVTT\UP[` 9LWYVK\J[PVU VM [OPZUL^ZWHWLY PU HU` MVYT ^OL[OLY PU ^OVSL VY PU WHY[^P[OV\[ WLYTPZZPVU PZ Z[YPJ[S` WYVOPIP[LK    HSSYPNO[ZYLZLY]LK;OL
<*:+.\HYKPHU PZUV[YLZWVUZPISL
MVY[OLYL[\YUVM\UZVSPJP[LKTHU\ZJYPW[ZVYHY[;OL]PL^ZL_WYLZZLKOLYLPUKVUV[ULJLZZHYPS`YLWYLZLU[[OLVWPUPVUZVM[OL
<*:+.\HYKPHU [OL<UP]LYZP[`VM*HSPMVYUPH
VY(ZZVJPH[LK:[\KLU[Z;OL <*:+.\HYKPHU PZM\UKLK
ZVSLS`I`HK]LY[PZPUN 0M[OL`JVTLPUWYL[LUK`V\»YLJOPSSPU
.LULYHS,KP[VYPHS!
editor@ucsdguardian.org
5L^Z! news1@ucsdguardian.org
-VJ\Z! features@ucsdguardian.org
/PH[\Z! hiatus@ucsdguardian.org 
6WPUPVU! opinion@ucsdguardian.org
:WVY[Z! sports@ucsdguardian.org
7OV[V! photo@ucsdguardian.org
(K]LY[PZPUN!
ads@ucsdguardian.org
-H_! );+7=6+1487;<876-;78-616/);;<7:-
By Ayelet Bitton
Associate News Editor 
A committee to create a student 
-run A.S. store will present its busi-
ness plan to the University Centers Advisory Board by Week 5 of Spring Quarter.
The A.S. committee hopes to open 
the store — which would sell UCSD merchandise, including Greek apparel and Sun God paraphernalia — in Price Center by Fall Quarter 2010.
The committee had originally 
hoped to complete and submit its pro-posal to UCAB by the end of Fall Quarter 2009, but Vice President of Finance and Resources Peter Benesch said that the process has been slower than anticipated because the commit-tee underestimated all the research on merchandise and demand necessary to the project.
“Where we are now is where we 
thought we would be last quarter, ” Benesch said. “The idea of completely understanding all the factors that go into opening the store was infinite-ly more complicated than originally expected. There were a lot of factors we needed to investigate, which we have done now. ”
According to committee chair and 
Campuswide Senator Tobias Haglund, the committee members spent Winter Quarter discussing what merchandise to sell and how to advertise.
“This quarter we’ve kind of mapped 
out the business plan we want to pre-pare, ” Haglund said. “We’ve worked mainly on the structure of the store we want to create. A lot of that has just been me talking to people at other stores at other campuses. ”    
To facilitate the process, the com-
mittee is speaking with a student consultant from the Rady School of Management.
“This quarter we’ve met with a 
consultant and we essentially have a consultant on the team to help us fin-ish the business plan, ” Haglund said.    
The committee is also in the pro-
cess of creating an A.S. Store Advisory Board, made up of six faculty members and two undergraduate students. The store’s student managers would update the board on the store’s progress to gain input on how the store could improve and expand.“Right now we’re doing a recruit-
ment process, finding the people we think would be appropriate and ben-eficial to that board, ” Haglund said. “I’ve been sending out emails to as many people as possible, trying to col-lect people who would be interested and good for that position. We’re hop-ing to have the board filled by the end of finals week so they can see pieces of the business proposal as they are completed. ”
Haglund hopes to submit the pro-
posal before the current A.S. Council completes its term, which is Week 5 of next quarter. If the proposal is completed, submitted and approved by that time, the store could open by Fall Quarter 2010, according to Haglund.
“I would love to see it open up 
in fall next year, ” Haglund said. “I’m definitely going to continue working with them to do anything I can to help them. If we get it approved by UCAB in the middle of spring, we have all the time to make sure all our I’s are dotted and our T’s are crossed. ”
Haglund said, despite the stall, he 
remains optimistic about the project and plans to work persistently toward 
its completion.   
“I want to make sure [the proposal] 
is presented to UCAB before my term is up, ” Haglund said. “That’s kind of my obligation to A.S., to myself, to my constituents — to finish that before my term is up. ”
Readers can contact Ayelet Bitton at  
arbitton@ucsd.edu.
SUNNY-SIDE UP By Philip Rhie
60,000 eyes & other good reasons.
Call 858-534-3467 to reserve your spot!
ucsdguardian.org
Why Advertise in
the Guardian?
Reserve
for next
quarter!CORRECTION
An article published on March 
8 titled "The Sex Offender Next Door" incorrectly stated that James Donnelly is a convicted rapist. Donnelly was convicted for possessing child pornography. 
The Guardian  corrects all errors 
brought to the attention of the editors. Corrections can be sent to editor@ucsdguardian.org .NEWSTHURSDAY , MARCH 11, 2010THE UCSD GUARDIAN 3 
By Regina Ip
Staff Writer
Is your Grandma feeling blue? 
Take a tip from a recent UCSD study 
and lend her your Wii for a round of tennis or two — the exercise will do her good.
In a study published in February, 
psychiatrists at the UCSD School of Medicine found evidence that video games that combine the thrill of competition with exercise — like Nintendo’s Wii Sports  — lower symp-
toms  of a mild form of depression 
common in older adults. 
These exergames can help seniors 
improve their moods by producing endorphins and encouraging them to exercise. 
Subsyndromal depression, which 
is more common than clinical depres-sion in older adults, is associated with functional disabilities, increased medi-cal costs and higher mortality. Physical activity can improve health and reduce depressive symptoms, but those with SSD may not enjoy physical activity as much, and are likely to stop exercising prematurely.
“The issue with older people has 
always been that they don’t sustain exercise, ” psychiatry Ph.D candidate Ipsit V . Vahia said. “Our theory was that maybe if we use video games, then it’s a way of getting older people to get some exercise. It offers advan-tages: they can do it in their house, it’s safer and it can also be more enter-taining, so they’re likely to do it more often. ”
Vahia worked with fellow co-investigator Colin Depp, an assistant adjunct professor of psychiatry, in the study led by Dilip V . Jeste. Jeste is a professor of psychiatry and neurosci-ences at the UCSD School of Medicine and director of the Sam and Rose Stein Institute for Research on Aging. 
In a preliminary study, the 
researchers collaborated with CalIT2 — which gave guidance on how to 
choose the right physical activity levels to ensure safety — to figure out how 
to get older adults to stick with an exercise plan. 
The researchers thought exergames 
could allow SSD patients to get their recommended amount of physical activity without leaving their house. The researchers decided to use the commercially available Wii Sports  so 
that they could reach a broader audi-ence.
“They liked Wii Sports mainly 
because it was so easy to use, and they liked creating the Mii character for themselves — it made it more engag-ing, ” Vahia said.
The researchers then tested the 
effectiveness and safety of Wii games on 19 participants aged 63 to 94. The seniors played one of the five Wii Sports games — bowling, boxing, tennis, golf and baseball — for 35 minutes, three times a week for 12 weeks.
After playing the game, the 
participants rated their expe-riences with the Wii with high satisfaction. From these self-reported scales on mood, cognition and functioning, the research-ers found that more than a third of the participant’s reported a decrease in depression symptoms by 50 percent or more.
Specifically, they 
found that there was a large improve-ment in depressive symptoms, mental health-related quality of life and cog-nitive performance.
“It is our hope that we can demon-
strate exergames as a safe and effective way of improving physical activity in older adults, ” Vahia said.
The study also concluded that 
older adults can play exergames with-out injury if they are properly trained.
The researchers are now planning 
to do a more detailed study, where they will be looking at the physi-ological and psychological effects of exergames. They will also be testing exergames on a larger pool of partici-pants, who will be chosen at random and compared with a control group.
They will also explore the uses of 
exergames in different demographics.
Readers can contact Regina Ip at 
rwip@ucsd.edu./IUM+WV[WTM<ZMI\[,MXZM[[QWVQV-TLMZTa
A couple hundred students literally swarmed the fourth floor of Price Center East 
yesterday, a bigger crowd than most that have attended A.S. meetings in recent years. The majority of stu-dents were there to persuade councilmem-bers into voting one way or the other on how to fund A.S. media organizations — a debate that began after President Utsav Gupta  froze their funds three 
weeks ago.  
Y esterday’s public input session 
started promptly at 6 p.m., and ended 90 minutes later — a much longer timeslot than the typical 20-minute time slot. 
Various members from A.S.-
funded media organizations and the Student Affirmative Action Committee (SAAC) community spent that hour and a half heatedly voicing their opinions for or against funding the Koala.  
“If you guys want to pass an 
amendment where you can censor speech, I urge you that it will end in an ugly legal battle, ” Koala  associate 
editor Wes Field  said. “We just want 
to sip our beers and make fun of whoever the hell we want. ” 
Jesse Cheng, the UC Student 
Regent delegate from UC Irvine, stood his ground to public dissent. 
“Students will one day hear about 
this and decide never to come to this campus, ” Cheng said. “The goal here is for students to leave educated and with understanding for fellow citi-zens. Student publications are only an example of the issue, not the real issue itself. ”  
Chris Cruz, AVP of Student 
Advocacy and chair of the Media Review funding board, presented the committee’s three potential models with which to fund media orgs. 
While explaining the first option 
— which allowed A.S. to choose which media organizations to fund 
based on UCSD Principles of Community — VP of Finance and Resources Peter 
Benesch said the heart of democ-racy is the ability 
to choose whose voice is heard over others. 
Because the committee drafted no 
official legislation, there wasn’t must to discuss, but the debate continued.
After a long, noisy discourse, 
Speaker James Lintern made the 
final decision to move the issue to New Business.  
Councilmembers voted 14-9-1 
to reinstate media funding. This was irrelevant, as the media funding freeze would have been unfrozen at the end of the council meeting anyway. Still, the council wanted to make its point.
Then, the council shot down 
Benesch’s “Option 1: Government Speech” legislation, which would put media funding entirely under the control of the VP of Finance. Many councilmembers objected strongly to his idea of putting the power in, essentially, one person’s hands. The motion failed. 
On a completely different note, 
Campuswide Senator Wafa Ben Hassine urged others to attend the Housing, Dining and Hospitality public forum today, to oppose the $100 increase in student dining dol-lars for the next academic year. 
Gupta ended the meeting by 
congratulating everyone on working hard and “not tearing apart. ” 
*a[\IVLMZ[?Q\VM[[
);+W]VKQT8W_MZ;\Z]OOTM
New
KELSEY WONG
klw009@ucsd.edu
Business:*0,5*,AND;,*/5636.@
A $2450
value
for only
$650! *
into your career
ENROLL
TODAY!with a UCSD Extension CertificateUNDERGRADUATES
CERTIFICATES:
ͻiotech Manufacturing
ͻusiness Analysis
ͻClinicalTrials Administra Ɵon
ͻFinancial Analysis
ͻParalegal
ͻPatentandLawProtecƟon
ͻProjectTeamManagement
ͻQualityAssurance/Control Specialist
ͻRegulatory Aīairs
ͻSustainable usiness PracƟces
ͻTechnical Documenta Ɵon
Extension courses 
provide practical skills 
taught by instructors who 
currently work in their industry.   
extension.ucsd.edu/launch ͮlaunch@ucsd.edu ͮϴϱϴ͘ϴϮϮ͘ϭϰϲϬ
LAUNCH is a program offered by UCSD Extension that enables 
UCSD Undergraduates to obtain a Specialized Certificate in 
one of a variety career fields at a reduced cost to the student.
* excludes Paralegal certificateNow accepting
applications for
Spring quarter!
Research shows video 
games involving physical exercise — like the Wii — can cheer up seniors.
REBEKAH  HWANG /GUARDIAN7816176
+76<)+<<0--,1<7:" opinion@ucsdguardian.orgWEB
POLL
DID MARCH 
4 HAVE AN 
INFLUENCE ON 
SACRAMENTO? 43%  No.
31%  I don’t know.
Flops to the Center for Disease Control for attempting to tax 
pizza and soda — two major staples in our student diet—
by as much as 18 percent.
Yes.4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG/OPINION MONDAY , MARCH 11, 2010
26%
Out of 61 votes.Props to Washington DC Mayor Adrian M. Fenty for signing a bill 
that went into effect yesterday, joining the DC district with the ﬁve other states that have legalized same-sex marriage.
For all you fortunate souls who 
spent last night somewhere other than the fourth floor of 
Price Center East: It was mayhem.
Not mayhem by the magnified 
standards we usually put on A.S. Council affairs, all tangled up in bureaucratic floss over something as inconsequential as a sheet of paper proclaiming either “we condemn” or “we condone. ” No, we’re talking real-live mayhem: 200 angry students packed into every corner of the board-room, split into two viciously opinion-ated camps, ready to fight to the death over their right to exist equally/com-fortably on this campus. 
Student-media orgs wanted their 
money back, with no threat of content regulation. Minority students and sup-porters did not want their money going toward publications that degraded and alienated them on campus. Affirmative action somehow became a hot topic, heaped onto a pile of irrelevant court cases and personal attacks. At one point, it seemed members of the crowd were ready to make it physical.But the most frightening part of the 
whole mess was the seated U-shape of ex-ASB hotheads, invested with jurisdiction over $3 million in student fees and a penchant to rock the com-ing A.S. elections (or head a gallant stampede into a gray area of law before even stepping foot into law school). All while Associate Vice President of Student Life Gary Ratcliff stood a few feet away, peacefully watching students bite off each others’ heads — essentially doing administrators’ dirty work for them.And just when we thought things 
were going to quiet down. According to the A.S. Standing Rules, the freeze could only have lasted until yesterday night. Offensive humor newspaper the Koala  — whose racial remarks were 
the reason A.S. President Utsav Gupta froze funds in the first place — had already released an issue on borrowed cash, and satirical rag the MQ put one 
out using an alternate Muir College bank account (unfortunately, no one was laughing at the latter).
Plus, a committee Gupta formed three weeks ago — to determine whether new funding guidelines were necessary — was getting along just swimmingly.
Which now looks suspiciously like 
a scheme, as everyone appointed to the committee had a similar stance: All were generally unwilling to rec-ommend any funding model with content bias. So committee  mem-bers — including Koala  Editor in 
Chief Kris Gregorian and very vocal Sixth College Senator John Condello, a presidential candidate for spring — let their guard down, thinking they had this one in the bag. Gupta fooled them momentarily, moping around like a defeated servant of the people. He and partner-in-crime Vice President of Finance and Resources Peter Benesch stood by dopely while the rest of the committee trumpeted no-bars content-neutral funding, then wasted a week making friends and out-articulating each other on exactly the same points. 
-,1<7:1)4;
You’ d think that — after an enormous systemwide student-fee increase and pleas 
for money to save the Loft and our transportation department — the last on-campus business to ask for more money would be the only one that turns a profit.
However, in a discrete effort to 
pad their lucrative business, Housing, Dining and Hospitality now has the audacity to ask for a $100 meal-point increase, potentially affecting over 7,000 on-campus residents. It’s been deliberately kept under wraps, along with the fact that, if passed, it would represent the fifth consecutive year meal points have been upped. 
Four years ago, someone living in 
a res. hall would pay $1,800 per year for meal points. Since then, that sum has increased to $2,795 — $1,000 more in prepaid cash that can only be used to purchase mediocre Cafe V sushi, $10 boxes of strawberries and overpriced toasters. Not exactly a diet our mothers would approve of. 
Nevermind the fact that most 
students don’t know what to do with the already enormous heap of points 
they’re allotted. According to data 
from a HDH survey this year, of 3,517 residents, 372 have fewer meal points than they need, 515 have just enough and a whopping 2,630 students — nearly 75 percent — have too many. 
Survey results for apartment dwell-
ers are equally telling. Of the 4,345 students in the apartments required to purchase a $2,145 dining plan, 1,007 
students had too many points, while 
1,697 had just enough.
And despite all that extra money, 
dining-hall hours have already been reduced — a tragic cut for overcaf-feinated students studying into the wee hours of the night — and there’s hardly a healthy option in sight, aside from a pitiful selection of produce that costs twice as much as it would at Ralphs.
Not to mention, a massive amount 
of prepaid dollars encourages students to spend irresponsibly. If we don’t all blow our dining dollars on Natural juices now, we’ll just be rushing to Roger’s Place the last week of Spring Quarter to throw whatever’s left into a toaster oven or an inflatable couch. 
Of course, even though students 
are already overpaying for mediocre, unhealthy food and constantly shrink-
ing choices, dining officials aren’t 
hesitating to turn to the students for a little extra cash. Student representa-tive for the On-Campus Housing and Dining Committee Wafa Ben Hassine cited a 4-percent union-mandated salary increase as the reason for this $100 hike, but just because workers serve us in the dining hall, doesn’t mean it’s our job to foot the bill every 
time their agreements grant them 
more pay. The one beacon of hope in the face 
of HDH’s shady plan is that the com-mittee voting on the proposal tomor-row is mostly student-run. However, the students are being threatened with closures and a reduction in hours, 
bringing us to a fundamental issue 
that’s come up one too many times this year: When the university needs funding, it turns to student fees as an easy out, rather than as a last resort. 
Before sticking incoming freshmen 
with another mandatory fee, HDH should go back to the drawing board and investigate its options. We don’t feel the department has gone to great 
enough lengths to determine student 
consensus on the issue — and clearly, if nearly three-quarters of res.-hall inhabitants aren’t even using up their current meal plans, there’s not much need for an increased midnight-bur-rito-run allowance. Here’s yet another instance of an administrative proposal that would drastically impact the stu-dent body, flying way under the radar — one which, without demonstrated need, no amount of administrative excuse-making can justify.
5WZM5MIT8WQV\['AW]+IV¼\*M;MZQW][<PM5MT\1[WV¸,WV¼\;\WX\PM0MI\
With good reason, people in Washington are a little weirded out by Patrick 
Kennedy at the moment. The Rhode Island congressman kind of went off the handle yesterday. And by kind of, I mean a lot. 
In a fit of rage, Kennedy berated 
the press for failing to cover an important House discussion on the U.S. war in Afghanistan. He shouted until his face turned red, waved his 
arms like a wild man and effectively 
called the media a bunch of scandal-mongering assclowns. We haven’t seen that kind of behavior on the House floor since, well, probably last week or something.
But while it’s not uncommon 
to witness politicians behaving like angry children in front of the CSPAN cameras, Kennedy’s outburst carries with it a particular weight. Though he expressed his anger in a truly unfortunate manner, his sentiment is undeniably justified. His frustration is the same kind we all begin to feel after the same tired gossip of Tiger Wood’s mistress col-lection makes the news for weeks on end, the sort of rage that brews when relentless discussion of shock and scandal eclipses issues of real national concern. 
For the last several days, a sig-
nificant portion of the media has been fixated on the alleged extra-marital perversions of flash-in-the-pan New Y ork congressman Eric Massa. Massa — who is the spitting image of Joe Pesci in “Home Alone 2” after his hair got set on fire — has been chugging steadily along on the denial train since he was pinned with accusations of inappropriate sexual conduct with a male staffer last week. With evidence mounting against him, Massa began swing-ing wildly. After resigning his post, he claimed to have been repeatedly harassed in a Congressional shower by White House Chief of Staff Rahm Emanuel. He accused House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer of fuel-ing rumors of his misconduct in a plot to force him out of Congress and eliminate his opposition to the health care reform bill. He even went on Glenn Beck. 
The story is bizarre, enticing and 
scandalous as hell —  exactly the kind of thing for which we media hounds tend to go batshit crazy. Stories like that drive up readership, boost ratings and rake in the dough. Scandal is America’s lifeblood — a controlled addiction fed steadily by periodic bouts of sex-driven political idiocy and blurry photos of exotic vacations with exotic mistresses and exotic intrigue. 
After a while, however, you start 
to realize that batshit stinks. While Massa — like Patterson, Edwards, Blagojevich and every other washed-up politician before them —  fum-bles his way through his sex-tinged 15 minutes of weirdo fame, impor-tant things go unnoticed. Important things like automobile safety hear-ings, corporate earmark restrictions REZA FARAZMAND
rfarazma @ucsd.edu
Head Meets
Ground,QZ\a;M`a
2W]ZVITQ[U+PMIXMV[\PM:MIT<PQVO
See GROUND page 5:PTVUL>PSZVU
EDITOR IN CHIEF
(S`ZZH)LYLaUHR
9LaH-HYHaTHUK
MANAGING EDITORS
/H`SL`)PZJLNSPH4HY[PU
(UNLSH*OLU
NEWS EDITORS
;YL]VY*V_
OPINION EDITOR,+0;690(3)6(9+
The UCSD Guardian  is published twice a week at 
the University of California at San Diego. Contents © 
2010. Views expressed herein represent the majority 
vote of the editorial board and are not necessarily 
those of the UC Board of Regents, the ASUCSD or 
the members of the Guardian  staff. 
ZACHARY  WATSON /GUARDIAN
See FREEZE, page 5
CHRISTINA  AUSHANA  AND ZACHARY  WATSON /GUARDIANOPINION MONDAY , MARCH 11, 2010  THE UCSD GUARDIAN 5 
Gupta and Benesch were the odd 
ones out. They advocated an unpopu-
lar “government speech model” that would allow the council to fund only publications that aligned with its prin-ciples. Gupta assured the committee it shouldn’t bother with PowerPoints, and would only have to present a casu-al recommendation to the council.
The committee didn’t even 
bother to take an official vote on its stance, too busy waxing starstruck by Gregorian and drooling over the Bill of Rights. Condello literally set his feet up on the table during their final get-together (really more a wine garden than a meeting). So imag-ine the cool kids’ surprise when, at last night’s official media-funding presentation, Benesch whipped out the PowerPointed legislation for a government speech model — hoping to charm the council with nicely pack-aged research he had kept under wraps from the estranged committee.
In such a chaotic environment, 
with so many emotional students beg-ging for action, there was the danger that councilmembers would join Gupta and Benesch under the pres-sure. But Benesch’s  model was obvi-ously terrible: Basically, every single newspaper would exist within the overly sensitive ideals of A.S.. Every newspaper would be an A.S. news-paper. Fortunately, that red flag flew above the mayhem, and the ‘Y es’ vote didn’t wildfire off the duo’s arson.
But something else happened amid 
all the political plotting: The original problem was brushed aside. Sure, it was ridiculous for Gupta to at first suggest that there be seven Student Affirmative Action Committee representatives on the media-funding committee, but he swung to the opposite end of the spectrum, and discussion never really surpassed the First Amendment and Gregorian’s theories on our “post-racist” society. Campuswide Senator Wafa Ben Hassine, one of the only voices that could have balanced out the committee, didn’t even show up for meetings — no doubt for fear of bad publicity for her presidential campaign. 
Gregorian is patting himself on 
the back for getting everyone to rise from the apathy and give a crap — but Gupta, in the role of evil dictator, is to be equally credited. Sadly, the debate is largely lacking an articulate voice against the Koala  — the other side is 
blinded by hurt, and it’s unfortunately an argumentative disadvantage. The Koala  is knowingly beating the back-
bone of a marginalized few within a hostile environment, who find it hard to be numb to racist stereotypes because it’s still the majority laughing at the minority — us versus them. The only thing we can hope is that some particularly articulate member of the opposing party has the passion and initiative to upstart an opposing news-paper, under new streamlined rules. 
And that is, in the end, what the 
committee has proposed: easier access to free press. More flexible deadlines, applications, access. Indeed, what a beautiful day that will be. We’ d also like to see some anarchists with the balls to withdraw their A.S. fees completely, as a speaker during public input sug-gested. And that brings us to the best part, without a doubt: We’re all talking. Thanks, Pupta. We love you.
THERE ARE TOURISTS
TRAVEL WITH US
GO TO CONTIKI.COMAND THERE ARETRAVELERS
%DUFHORQD /RQGRQ 5RPH 3D ULVDear Editor,
The Coalition to Defend 
Affirmative Action, Integration, and Immigrant Rights and Fight for Equality By Any Means Necessary  congratulates the Black Student Union and all of the black, Latino, American Indian and other students who have waged the brave and inspir-ing struggle against overt racism and hostility at UCSD. We know from our own experience that each student had to reach deep inside to overcome the fears and threats and to summon the courage needed to stand up for minority students’ rights. 
Because you fought, Ward 
Connerly has now declared that he will be “reviewing” the settlement that you have reached with the admin-istration. As always, Connerly says nothing about the nooses, the hoods or the climate of racism — his only concern is to end the slightest step toward restoring fairness, equality and affirmative action.
If Ward Connerly threatens one 
syllable of the agreement you reached with UCSD, we would be proud to provide whatever legal and political support you need to defeat him.
Connerly’s Proposition 209 
remains the crucial obstacle to our shared fight to stop the re-segregation of the University of California, to increase minority student enrollment and to restore the UC system’s histori-cal commitment to educate the next generation of leaders for California and the nation. In a state that is now a majority-minority state, it is sim-ply unacceptable to have only a tiny number of black and Latino students attending the UC campuses. 
At the UC Regents meeting that 
will be held in San Francisco from March 23 to 25, we and other orga-nizations will be demanding that the regents put their own words into action. We demand that the regents take the following steps:
1) Use all lawful means to increase 
underrepresented minority enroll-ment immediately,
2) Pass the Bernal-Block motion to 
provide UC institutional financial aid to undocumented AB 540 students.
3) Follow California Attorney 
General Jerry Brown’s lead by stating as their position in the federal court that Proposition 209 is unconstitu-tional and discriminatory, stand on their own 2001 unanimous resolu-tion opposing the ban on affirmative action and tell the plain truth that after experimenting with all conceiv-able admissions policies, Prop. 209 still creates an unfathomable barrier to the UC system’s ability to admit thou-sands of fully qualified black, Latino and American Indian students.
Taking these simple measures 
would provide a systemwide body blow to the racists and bigots who are trying to drive us off our own campuses. Getting the UC system’s support for overturning Prop. 209 and creating a UC Dream Scholarship would provide our new student move-ment with huge victories in our strug-gle to defend public education.
We can win if all those who want 
to fight for equality unite. Join with us in the lawsuit against Proposition 209 and in demanding action by the regents.
 —Shanta Driver
National Chair, Coalition to Defend 
Affirmative Action,  Integration, 
and Immigrant Rights and Fight for 
Equality By Any Means Necessary 
Dear Editor,
Embedded in your March 4 article, 
“KKK Hood Hung on Dr. Seuss Statue, ”  was a poll regarding racism 
on campus. I feel your findings in the poll are an inaccurate representation of the actual feeling on campus.
The first reason as to why this poll 
sucks is the question it asks. When you ask, “Do you think racism is a problem on campus?” it infers that there is racism on this campus, and thus is a deliberate question that leads people to think a certain way. A much fairer question would ask whether or not people tend to feel that there is racism on campus.
The next problem with your poll is 
its location. It is a poll put out in the Guardian . Y our paper does not have 
a large readership, let alone a whole bunch of people who actually want to answer a poll question. Placing this question in your newspaper (or advertising it on your Web site) means that you are polling a group of people that regularly read your paper and probably have stronger opinions (either way) about the campus climate than does the student body in gen-eral. Basically, your sample was not randomized and happened to find the people who feel a certain way.
I hope that this is a graph with a 
95-percent confidence interval, but I cannot be sure. If this is a 95-percent confidence interval, you have a range of about 30.5 percent to about 41.5  
percent. This means that your number could be significantly lower than you project.
So in all reality, you are 95 percent 
certain that between 30.5  percent and 
41.5 percent of the sample popula-
tion think that racism is a problem on campus. As stated before, your ques-tion is not neutral, and your sample population isn’t representative of the student body.
Lastly, at the end of your article, 
you said, “the hood is the latest incident in a two-week rise in hate speech throughout the UC system. ” Y ou refer to something written on a wall at UC Santa Cruz and then refer to something else about the vandal-izing of the UC Davis LGBT Resource Center. Somehow, you don’t report the carving of a swastika into a Jewish student’s door that took place at UC Davis around the same time as the noose incident at UCSD. Next time, don’t leave that part out — you might just convince even more people that the Guardian embodies certain biases.
—Steven Perlin
Freshman, Revelle College
;\]LMV\[;PW]TL<ISM
)K\QWV)OIQV[\8ZWX!LETTERS  TO THE  EDITOR
/]IZLQIV8WTT,Q[\WZ\ML
+IUX][7XQVQWV
DRAWING FIRE By Johan DeLaTorre
1\¼[<QUM\W*ZMISW]\WN\PM.ZMM;XMMKP+QZKTM2MZS
▶ FREEZE, MYVTWHNL
and filibuster reform proposals. 
Wait, those sound super boring. Oh, 
OK, I get it now. 
But that doesn’t mean it’s OK. 
Kennedy was dead-on. The media has its priorities in all the wrong places. Driven largely by the need to turn some sort of profit, news outlets place an alarming premium on the type of shock-and-awe crap that keeps us coming back for more. 
Is Massa really the perv his detrac-
tors are claiming him to be? How often did that California legislator frequent his favorite gay bars while consistently voting against gay rights? How many different types of facial hair has New Y ork Gov. David Patterson sported in the last three years? Could I too pull off a mus-tache like that? 
At the same time, however, the 
media has a deep and vastly impor-tant responsibility to the public. We’re here to provide people with information that makes them better citizens, better people, better voters. A sex scandal is always going to be more interesting than a lengthy dis-cussion on the Senate’s budget rec-onciliation procedures — but that’s just a cop out. It’s too easy. It’s too 
fleeting. It doesn’t mean anything in 
the long run. 
Heed Kennedy’s words. We’ d all 
be better off with a little less scandal and a lot more news. *WZQVO6M_[,WM[I:MILMZ:QOP\
▶ GROUND, MYVTWHNL6 THE UCSD GUARDIANTHURSDAY , MARCH 11, 2010NEWS
Planned Parenthood
Mission Bay Parker Center4501 Mission Bay Drive, #1C&DSan Diego, CA 92109
N
EW
SI-5La Jolla Village Dr.UCSD
Garnet Ave.
Think you missed the boat on the
HPV vaccine?
Think Again
If you didn’t get the Gardasil vaccine as part 
of your childhood immunizations, it’s not too 
late. Planned Parenthood now offers free or 
low-cost Gardasil for women who want to 
significantly reduce their risk of getting 
HPV, the leading cause of cervical cancer.
To make an appointment, 
call 1-888-743-7526 (PLAN)
or visit planned.org. 
Se Habla EspañolIf you bank with
California Bank & Trust 
and have been charged 
Overdraft Fees, 
you may have legal rights  
to recover the fees charged. 
For a FREE analysis of
your legal rights, please call:
858-485-6535 
Nix, Patterson, & Roach, L.L.P. 
Christopher R. Johnson, Attorney 
3600B N. Capital of Texas Hwy., Suite 350 
Austin, TX 78746 
512-328-5333Law Office of Alexander M. Schack 
Alexander M. Schack, Attorney 
16870 W. Bernardo Dr., Suite 400 
San Diego, CA 92127 
858-485-6535By Kashi Khorasani
Staff Writer
In the fight against intestinal 
roundworms — a disease that affects 
over a third of the world’s population and kills 60,000 people a year —  sci-entists at UCSD have discovered a naturally occurring treatment for intestinal roundworms that is three times more effective than the best of existing drugs.
According to Raffi Aroian of the 
UCSD Division of Biological Sciences, who led the study, a bacterium called Bacillus thuringiensis  — or “Bt” — is 
three times as effective as tribendimi-dine, the leading chemical drug used to treat intestinal roundworms. Bt is naturally occurring in various types of caterpillars and used in a popular insecticide.
When an insect comes into con-
tact with crops that have been sprayed with the insecticide, Bt forms crystal proteins inside the insect’s gut that attack the animal’s cellular lining, causing gut paralysis and a quick death. In roundworms, the crystal protein Cry5B — taken from Bt — interacts with invertebrate-specific membrane molecules in the round-worm’s intestine, eventually leading to destruction of the worm’s intestine.
Though Bt is toxic to insects, it is 
harmless to mammals because they lack the enzymes to make the destruc-tive molecules, leading Aroian and his team, consisting of  postdoctoral 
employee Y an Hu and graduate stu-dent Sophia Georghiou, to believe it can cure intestinal roundworms and other internal parasites. 
“We took mice infected with intes-
tinal parasites and basically mimicked the disease, ” Aroian said. “We gave them this natural pathogen of round-worms called Bt… [which is] excellent at eliminating insects and not verte-brates. The logic of the experiment is this: if we have a bacterium that we know is harmless to vertebrates, instead of using it to kill insects living in plants, we said, ‘Why don’t we feed Bt to these mice infected with intesti-nal roundworms?’”
The bacterium proved very effec-
tive, curing all 17 mice without any side effects. However, in order to prove that this find was truly signifi-cant — and that Bt could replicate the effects of leading drugs for intestinal parasites — Aroian had to compare it with tribendimidine, the most effective drug used to treat intestinal roundworms. Tribendimidine is still being tested and is not yet available on the market.
“We gave the infected mice this 
protein, saw the effectiveness and we compared it in a head-to-head study to a chemical drug still in clinical trials that is known to be the best combatant against intestinal parasites, finding that Bt was about three times better, ” Aroian said.
According to the scientific jour-
nal Maternal & Child Nutrition,  
intestinal parasites like round-worms, pinworms and whipworms affect over 2 billion people world-wide. Though ascariasis — an  
infection of the parasitic round-worm — exists in the United States, it is most common in coun-tries with poor sanitation and lack of water supplies. 
These parasites can live within 
a human’s intestines for some time before that person displays symp-toms, and travel through the body, 
causing slow damage in the abdomen and pelvis, as well as inflammation, toxicity and pneumonia. Heavy and prolonged infestations in children have been known to cause nutritional deficiency, growth stunting and some mental retardation.
Aroian said he hopes the discovery 
will help reduce the number of people suffering from roundworms.
“This should be a very cheap drug 
to make, ” Aroian said. “This is really aimed at helping some of the poorest people in the world. ” 
According to the George Institute 
of International Health  report, about 
$720,000 was spent in 2008 to develop new drugs specifically for these parasites. With a comparable sum of funding, clinical trials for a Bt-based roundworm drug could begin soon, Aroian said.
Readers can contact Kashi Khorasani 
at kkhorasa@ucsd.edu.<ZMI\QVO8IVLMUQK[7VM8M[\QKQLMI\I<QUM
A common bacterium 
used to kill insects could help treat roundworm victims worldwide.:*0,5*,AND;,*/5636.@
sory committee have offered sev-
eral explanations for students being behind in their spending.
“ A lot of [committee members] 
are arguing for it because of one reason or another, like ‘Oh, well, people in the res halls don’t spend as much as they should because they don’t know how to spend their money, ’ or ‘They don’t know how to go about with a dining plan, ’” Ben Hassine said.
A 12-person committee, com-
prised mostly of students, will vote on the proposal this Friday. Student representatives from each of the six colleges will join A.S. representatives — including  Ben Hassine — and the Inter-Collegiate Resident’s Association. The com-mittee also includes Director of Housing, Dining and Hospitality Mark Cunningham and Director of Financial Aid Ann Klein.
According to Ben Hassine, 
Cunningham said additional rev-enue from an increase in dining dollars is necessary due to union-mandated wage increases and the rising cost of things like food and utilities. Also, environmentally con-scious choices — like cage-free eggs and fair trade coffee — rack up addi-tional costs.
“They need to fill a certain gap, 
because next year — you know how everything constantly increases, like the food, the raw food, utilities, electricity, water, everything — we need to fill in that gap somehow, and we can’t cut services, ‘cause those are our workers, custodians and such, ” Michael Lam, the ICRA Representative for the Committee, said. “But nobody wants [to close down OVT for a year], and every-body wants to keep our services. So the only way anyone could think of to cover that gap was to increase the dining dollars, to have people pay m o r e .”
Lam also cited concern for lower-
income students as his reason for supporting the increase.
“I don’t want to cut dining 
halls because there are a lot of stu-dent workers, and they depend on those, ” Lam said. “The Director of Financial Aid Ann Klein said that financial aid would be able to cover [the $100] increase, but that’s only for financial aid students. So that’s why everyone is saying that we need this increase, there is no other way to fill the gap. ”
Since the 2007-08 school year, 
dining dollars for students in the residence halls has increased from $1,800 to $2,795 in 2010-11.
Marshall College senior Derek 
Lao said that having fewer meal points as a freshman helped him learn to pace himself when it came to spending money.
“Freshman year I ran out, I had 
to reload about $200, ” Lao said. “[Mandatory meal points are] kind of forcing freshmen to spend their money, instead of teaching them how to budget their own money and be responsible. Y ou have to real-ize that you can’t always get Ben & Jerry’s for every meal. ”
Muir College freshman Y onatan 
Rotman said he has too many meal points and is worried about having leftover dining dollars at the end of the year.
“Personally, I have more dining 
dollars than I need, ” Rotman said. “I don’t think more are necessary. If someone were to run out, they can buy more themselves, so there’s no reason to force all students to buy $100 more. ”
Cunningham could not be 
reached for comment.
Readers can contact Hayley Bisceglia-
Martin at  hbiscegl@ucsd.edu.4IU"5WZM5MIT8WQV\[6MKM[[IZa
STEFANY  CHEN/GUARDIAN▶ DINING, from page 1NEWSTHURSDAY , MARCH 11, 2010THE UCSD GUARDIAN 7 
had prepared a piece of legislation to present. 
Members felt that he had been working on the amendment behind their backs. 
Gupta explained that this was not the case. “There was never an agreement to not have 
legislation or not use PowerPoint, as some peo-ple have said, ” Gupta said. “There was no shady business or working behind people’s backs. All of these are scare tactics used by the majority to attempt to silence the minority. These ideas of a possible evil A.S., threats of litigation, or censor-ship — they’re unfair arguments, scare tactics for people who want to undercut the legislation. ”
He added that concerns that the government-
speech model could be abused were unfounded.
“The A.S. Council is moderate and would 
continue to substantially fund media organi-zations, ” he said. 
Warren Senator Alyssa Wing, who voted 
in favor of the proposed legislation, said recent racially motivated events on campus created a need for the council to change the system. 
“We’ve really been urged to do something 
to uphold the Principles of Community, ” Wing said. 
According to Benesch, various Supreme 
Court cases supported the legality of the gov-ernment-speech model. 
“Essentially, this idea supposes that we will 
close the open forum where everyone can come and ask for money and we have to distribute in a viewpoint-neutral manner, and move to a model where the A.S. will have to provide a  large amount of funding through advertising initiatives, ” Benesch said. 
Koala Editor in Chief Kris Gregorian said he 
opposes the government-speech model because it forces publications to abide by the Principles of Community or lose funding.
Although Wednesday’s final decision 
returned the funding model to its original sys-tem, the committee also discussed implement-ing an opt-out model. This model would allow students to request for the portion of their student fees that go toward certain publica-tions to be removed on moral grounds. With the current system, students who request that their money be removed are reimbursed from the A.S. General Fund instead of their chosen organization.According to Benesch, UCSD legal counsel 
Dan Park said the opt-out model was illegal because it allowed students to fiscally discrimi-nate based on content. 
Transfer Senator and committee member 
Adam Powers said he favors the opt-out model, since it would have allowed students to vote with their dollars. 
“We are empowering students to make a 
decision with how the campus is run, ” he said. 
The committee also discussed improving the 
original process by allowing print media orgs to request funding on a rolling basis. 
Associate Vice President of Student 
Organizations Andrew Ang said he prefers adding a line item that creates an emergency fund from which media orgs could withdraw. 
Park declined to comment. According to David Blair-Loy, director of 
American Civil Liberties Union’s San Diego branch, both the government-speech and opt-out models violate the First Amendment since they discriminate against the press as a form of speech. 
“There are numerous student orgs that 
engage in all forms of protected speech that aren’t print, ” Blair-Loy said. “ A.S. has funded many forms of controversial speech, and they can’t treat student press differently from the way they treat other student orgs. The First Amendment doesn’t just protect freedom of speech, it protects freedom of the press. ”
He said that these two proposed systems 
violate Section 61.13 of the UC Regents policy, which states that student government must pro-vide funding on a viewpoint-neutral basis.  
“I never say preliminarily that I will sue 
before I do, but if A.S. adopts either of these options, their chance of being litigated will increase exponentially, ” Blair-Loy said. 
Gupta said he hoped the council would not 
bow under threats of litigation. He said although council has no definite plans to change media guidelines, outside pressure to fight against funding hate speech will only increase, espe-cially in light of the UC Board of Regents work-ing to apply a form of the government-speech model systemwide. 
Readers can contact Angela Chen at shchen@
ucsd.edu.their professional knowledge — will increase 
from $24,557 to $25,298.
The contract also gives librarians a new sever-
ance option. If faced with layoffs, librarians can choose to give up “recall rights” — the ability to return to a job in their field of work, if one opens up — in favor of a time-limited severance package. 
This system was created because, in big-
ger libraries, librarians faced with lay-offs can request that librarians with less seniority be fired first. But in smaller libraries that employ only four to five librarians, this is not an option.
The severance pay option only 
applies to six of the 10 UC campus-es — excluding UC Santa Barbara, UC Santa Cruz, UC Merced and UCSD.
It was also agreed that, should 
the University of California enact future systemwide salary increas-es, librarians will get the same percentage increases as other spe-cialized personnel.
According to UCOP Senior 
Negotiator Peter Chester, the new contract acknowledges the work of UC librarians while recogniz-ing the current financial circum-stances. 
“Given the current economic 
situation, I believe we’ve reached a very good agreement, ” Chester said. 
However, according to Chief Negotiator for 
the UC-AFT Librarian Unit Mike Rotkin, the agreement does not meet the librarians’ needs. He said that after two years of negotiations, the union was forced to settle. 
“ After negotiating for university lecturers for 
25 years and now for librarians, I’ve realized that the UC administration cannot be approached with rationale at the bargaining table, ” Rotkin said. “[It is] not a rational institution. ” 
Rotkin said the new contract does not address 
the disparity between UC librarians’ salaries and those at the California State University system, who are paid an average of 20 percent more. 
According to the UCOP’s Web site, assistant 
librarians are paid anywhere from $57,600 to $105,800 annually. Rotkin claims the average starting salary for assistant librarians is $46,164, compared to $55,944 at CSUs. After six years, the gap increases — UC assistant librarians make $49,409, compared to $64,320 at CSUs. The discrepancy between salaries a primary reasons negotiations began two years ago. 
Chester said the salary gap can be attributed 
to different labor contracts and job circumstanc-es. He said CSU librarians do maintenance work, such as circulation, shelving and recordkeeping, while UC librarians often work with professors on their research.
“CSU librarians have a very different line of 
work from UC librarians, ” Chester said. “Their 
jobs are not a valid comparison. CSU librarians have more leverage, as they are in the same bargaining unit as CSU faculty and staff. ”
The UC-AFT and the UCOP ini-
tially met to draw up a new labor contract in 2007, before state funding for public higher education was cut by over $2.2 billion. In the wake of $115 million in cuts to the UC system last spring and a $60 million cut last fall, the UC-AFT Librarian Bargaining Committee decided the best solution was to postpone further negotiations until May 11, 2011, where they will once again open discussion about the salary gap. 
The cuts have made it difficult to pro-
vide salary increases and job security for the librarians’ union, Chester said. 
Rotkin, however, said that the UC 
system can refuse a more comprehensive con-tract only because the current contract prevents UC-AFT from striking.
“It is just the general perception that the UCs 
don’t have money, ” Rotkin said. “We believe that the UCs have money. Unless we’re threaten-ing them with damaging consequences such as strikes, we have no real bargaining power. ”
Rotkin said if the UCOP does not close the 
salary gap, the librarians are likely to strike.
“Our current contracts [do] not allow for the 
withholding of labor, ” Rotkin said. “[But] should the parties come to [an] impasse in the reopener bargaining over salary for 2011-12, the librarians are free to strike. ”
Readers can contact Anqi Chen at anc028@ucsd.
edu.
ɜȣǸȽȰɕȹȨȰȐѳ
23 years of service
“we’ll miss you...”
-guardian staff
5Z5IZ\QVMbI\_WZS
+MTMJZI\QVO;]V/WL	
*QZ\PLIaI\8WZ\MZ¼[8]J5QSMI\XTIa	▶ LIBRARIES, from page 1
“I’ve realized 
that the UC administration cannot be approached with rationale at the bargaining table.”
MIKE ROTKIN
UC-AFT NEGOTIATOR=+4QJZIZQIV[5Ia;\ZQSM.WZ*M\\MZ?IOM[
▶ MEDIA, from page 1+W]VKQT,MJI\M[,Q[KZM\QWVIZa5MLQI.]VLQVO;/,),:;:65.:
05/0(;<:;/0:>,,2boss dittiesGet one last gasp of haute couture 
before ﬁnals with the theatre and dance department’s WinterWORKS, a grab-bag of awe-inspiring dance performances at the Potiker Theatre, tonight through Saturday at 8 p.m. for $10.TONIGHTTHURSDAY , MARCH 11, 2010 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG/HIATUS
If ill beats and smooth-ﬂowin’ rhymes are more your style, head over 
to Porter’s Pub next Thursday night and catch one of the Sun God Festival’s Battle of the Bands frontrunners: The Mack ‘N Biz. The duo 
will be debuting their third mixtape “Just The Tip” as well as bringin’ 
down the house with a whole set of their MySpace rap classics including “All I Wanna Do” and “Learjets.” (JB)THE MACK ‘N’ BIZ
PORTER’S PUB
MARCH 18 / 7 P .M. / FREE    HIATUS PICKS THE WEEK’S BEST BETSexit strategy
“THE LOVELY BONES”
PRICE CENTER THEATER
MARCH 11 & MARCH 13,
6 P .M. & 9 P .M.$3
ESTOMAGO
THE LOFT
MARCH 11, 7:30 P .M.FREESING OFF
PRICE CENTER 
BALLROOM
MARCH 11, 8 P .M.
FREE
SKELETOR 
CHE CAFE
MARCH 12, 7:30 P .M.$5MUSIC OF POLAND
MANDEVILLE CENTER
MARCH13, 8 P .M.$15
SPRING ARTS SPREE
UCSD EXTENSION COMPLEX
MARCH 13, 10 A.M.-12 P .M.FREEWITT
CHE CAFE
MARCH 13, 7:30 P .M.$6
DUB AT THE PUB
PORTER’S PUB
MARCH 16, 8 P .M.FREEdruthers SHAMROCK
GASLAMP QUARTER
MARCH 17 / 4 P .M. - 12 P .M. / $25 / 21+
Even though some cruel god put St. Patrick’s 
Day in the middle of ﬁnals week this year, 
don’t let him keep you from the 13th annual ShamROCK — a Patty’s block party in the Gaslamp District. The event will showcase 
Celtic rockers Young Dubliners alongside a 
deejay stage, go-go girls and over 60,000 square feet of Astroturf. It ain’t the most reverent celebration, but it’s one hell of a 
Mardi Gras followup. Best of all, there’s a free 
DD program to shuttle your ass home, as long as you can remember where you live. (MP)THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS;IaWVIZI
;IO.IKM[
¸1\¼[*MMV 
)XI\PM\QK
I’ve always felt like the odd one out 
at UCSD. The moment I walked into my Tioga freshman triple, I 
felt isolated — I realized I was going to be the token white kid for an entire year, and I’ d never experienced such culture and identity shock. 
Whenever I’ d peek into my suit-
emates’ rooms on a Friday and ask if they wanted to see a show at the Che Cafe or go on a beach adventure, they’ d politely decline and return to Guitar Hero or studying chemical compounds. If it weren’t for fellow Guardian  columnist and science 
misfit Philip Rhie, who accompanied 
me on weekend skate trips and philo-
sophical talks, I wouldn’t have had any close friends then. It took ‘til Fall Quarter of my second year to finally muster enough initiative to apply to be a Guardian  writer and awaken 
from my deep funk. This choice marked my start of a new lifestyle on this fickle campus.
I have felt unbelievable lows here, 
even though our school is located in a gorgeous beach town with universe-rivaling weather. Y es, the other reason I feel so left out is because you can separate UCSD kids into two basic categories: those who care and those who don’t. And the latter is an over-
See STEEZ, page 12THE UCSD GUARDIAN 8   
THE UCSD GUARDIAN&
PRESENT
0Q)<=;
?7:;<81+<=:-;OL9\I`:\UZ ¸/V^2PKZ-HPS¹
;OL9\I`:\UZ ¸6S`TWPJZVU7V[¹
(UKYL^3SV`K>LIILY ¸;PSS0/LHY/LY:PUN¹
:LYPV\ZS` ¸0TTHJ\SH[L(KKPJ[PVU¹
:LYPV\ZS` ¸)LLU:V3VUN¹
4HK;YHMMPJ ¸:SLLW)LMVYL+H^U¹
4HK;YHMMPJ ¸>HP[PUNVU3\JR¹
3\KHJYPZ¸/V^3V^¹
3\KHJYPZ¸4`*OPJR)HK¹
;OL4HJRºU»)Pa¸(SS0>HUUH+V¹
INTERVIEW
By Chris Kokiousis
Senior Staff Writer
The Guardian : Could you talk 
a little bit about Auckland’s current music scene? Are there a lot of other bands from the city playing a similar style of music as you? What’s going on with current music trends in Auckland and New Zealand on a larger scale?Ryan McPhun: I don’t think 
we fit into any kind of scene in Auckland. I’m not sure what the trends are here, or if there are any. The music scene is small enough, so it never seems like there [are] any kind of trends or scenes or what-ever. Everyone’s just doing [his or her] own thing. Audiences are limited, so there’s no real pressure to impress anyone.G: What contemporary 
American bands have inspired you the most this past year, and why?RM: Well, I’ve been really into a lot of the bands on the ZZK label (that’s South American, Argentinean-based). Y ou were wanting me to say Animal Collective, right? I definitely like their music, but I didn’t really connect with their latest album as much as I had their previous work. It was mostly commercial pop that provided the main impetus for a lot of the songs, from North America and otherwise. There’s a touchstone for each track that probably only makes sense to me. For example, “Haunted House” was my answer to “Single Ladies. ” “Two Humans” was me trying to sound like Fleetwood Mac, especially stuff from the album Tango in the Night , et cetera.
G: What’s your favorite Kiwi 
slang, and how would you best translate it to American English? Do you guys ever incorporate distinctly Kiwi culture into your songwriting? If so, what’s an example of that on the new LP?RM: Ha! I don’t think there’s any Kiwi slang on the album. I’ d have to go through the lyr-ics. But there’s plenty of good slang around. I’m distracted cause Kylie Minogue is on the telly, sorry. Oh ...“Sweet as!” The last record had more dis-tinctly Kiwi references.G: The lyric that stands out most to me from your new record is on “How Kids Fail”: “ At first it was relatively easy/ The garage was an island. ” Could you tell me a little bit about what those words mean to you — the concept of a garage island?RM: I’m referring to the garage at my mom’s house in Ventura, Calif. That’s where I started recording in my teens. I would go in there by myself and sit 
Suburban    Steez
CHRIS KOKIOUSIS
ckokious@ucsd.edu
Under no circumstance would I have ever thought to 
recommend a latter-day Nicolas Cage film — con-
sidering they’re as empty as his bank account, 
post-IRS repossession — but after I describe 
the plot of “Knowing, ” you might be curious 
enough to check it out. 
It’s not the girl with the power to pre-
dict when and where all humanity’s major 
catastrophes will occur, nor the deadbeat 
scientist on a mission to prevent them 
from happening. No. It’s alien bunnies. 
Now, unless your eyes were pried 
open with a “Clockwork” lithotripsy 
machine at AMC, there’s a good chance 
you didn’t have enough endurance to make 
it through to the last five minutes of the 
film, and 
therefore have no 
idea what I’m talking about. But that’s a 
shame, because when two alien bunnies hop 
into the limelight for the last scene, it makes 
the whole excruciating two-hour Ford 
commercial worthwhile. 
Trust me: After watching notorious 
over-actor Cage run in circles yelling lines 
like, “The caves won’t save us! Nothing 
can save us!” while his partially deaf son 
is receiving nightly visits from grown 
Draco Malfoys holding shiny black 
pebbles, you’ll be overcome with thanks 
for the completely nonsensical ending. 
Drumroll please: A wiffle-ball-alien 
vessel straight out of “Independence 
Day” transports the “chosen” children 
to a remote planet of wheat fields and 
(you guessed it) alien bunnies, all 
while our dear old Earth burns to 
a crisp. Don’t believe me? Y ou can’t 
make this shit up.
— Jenna Brogan
Hiatus Editor
<PM:]Ja;]V[)ZMV¼\0MZM\W1UXZM[[AW]
See SUNS, page 12
?7:;<7.<0-5)44+78<:-6,
*-;<0)1:
P
RE
S
EN
T
?????????????7:;<
Under no c
recomm
sider
pos
the
eno
dic
cata
scie
from
N
open 
machin
you didn
it through  
idea what I’m
shame, bec au
into the limel
the whole excr
commercial  w
Trust me: A
over-actor Cag
like, “The cave
can save us!” w
is receiving n ig
Draco Malfoys
pebbles,  you’ll b
for the complet
Drumroll please
vessel straight ou
Day” transports 
to a remote plane
(you  guessed it)  a
while our dear ol
a crisp. Don’t belie
make this shit u p.
— J
-;<0)1:
Kristen Stewart is, inarguably, a one-dimensional actress with a blank stare and husky voice. So why was Plain Jane on the cover of every magazine in 2009? Because Stewert has one solid acting tool at her disposal: her shiny, versatile hair. What could translate teenage angst better than ten fingers running through one vam-pirically tangled mane every 15 minutes? Y ou can watch the technique in practically every film she’s ever been in, from “Into the Wild” to the “Twilight” series. The pressing question becomes: Who needs character development 
when there are greasy tresses to tussle? 
In “ Adventureland, ” Stewart took this attitude to a whole new level, allowing a fleet of heavily doused dead cells to upstage her acting. Blowing in the wind on cue and perfectly coiffed when neces-sary, her black mop is a highly contributing member of whichever cast it graces — too bad Stewart is beneath it. 
— Rebecca Erbe
Staff Writer<0--1/0 <
Two films starring mall cops hit the screens last year — and that was two more than anyone ever needed or wanted to 
see. The first of the pair, “Paul Blart: Mall Cop, ” was a PG-rated farce of wholesome attempts at banana-peel humor, but failed to keep our eyelids open past the opening 
credits. Then, as if it couldn’t 
get any worse, Seth Rogen’s 
“Report” rode mall-cop mania to a state of utter mayhem. In its futile attempt to pass as edgy dark comedy, “Observe & Report” became the most painfully 
laughless comedy of the year with a nearly suicidal protagonist (please, just do it) and handicapped humor. 
What’s worse, director Jody Hill even claimed his vision for the film that it be a comedic version of “Taxi Driver. ” As the protagonist’s delusions of grandeur 
unravel during attempts to save a hostile world in the confines of a shopping mall (instead of New Y ork City), we can see 
the birthplace of Hill’s delusions. But Rogen is no DeNiro, Hill is no Scorsese and the problem with doing a funny 
version of “Taxi Driver” is that it needs to be, well, funny. 
— Arielle Sallai
Staff Writer
¹367?16/º
3:1;<-6
;<-?):<
¹7*;-:>-
:-87:<º
8887777:::)6,
PHILIP  RHIE/GUARDIANHIATUS THURSDAY , MARCH 11, 2010  THE UCSD GUARDIAN 9
Ryan McPhun’s merry 
band of indie shape-shifters has returned, 
but 2010 is a darker spot for the Ruby Suns. Fight Softly 
trades in the lo-fi gear and mirth of 2008’s Sea Lion  
for a raver sheen that’s as much downcast yuppie-rock as upbeat club-hop, with McPhun’s production dominating every track.
“Sun Lake Rinsed” starts 
the Kiwis’ new LP off with innocuous dream-soul that avoids intricacy in search 
of elusive pop “feeling” — a 
timeless vibe to soundtrack a late-night teenage car ride back to the Auckland ’burbs. Like fellow up-and-comers Y easayer, the cheese factor of “Mingus and Pike” and “Haunted House” revels in New Age retro-posing. 
On many cuts, McPhun’s 
genre-dabbling alienates whatever bubbly hooks were starting to germinate. Even “Cinco” — which somehow gives the Middle East some techno-chic fly — forces itself into a lame Enya breakdown. 
Still, when the nods to 
McPhun’s parents’ cassette collection stick — as on “Closet Astrologer” — you’ll want to drop everything and start your own indie 
Phil Collins tribute band. 
The cut’s dated bass tones and synth presets conjure an ecstatic live show, which is indeed where the Suns always seemed most cozy. 
Their studio wizardry 
and attempts at pop tran-scendence do converge on a few tracks, though: The 
intimate “When Kids Fail” is electro-crunch carnage that deserves a headlining slot on 
this summer’s festival tents. And ending with the hilari-ous image of “Olympics On Pot” — whose outro evokes the suspense of Nickelodeon gameshow “Legends of the Hidden Temple” , if acid techno had tainted it ’til the subwoofers burst — sums 
up the Ruby Suns in a taut, 
worldly package. Softly  
regurgitates 20 years of McPhun’s vinyl consumption with passive-aggressive glee; you’re allowed to dance, but strictly to his tune.
— Chris Kokiousis
Senior Staff WriterALBUMREVIEWS
The Ruby Suns
Fight Softly
SUB POP
6
10
3Q_Q[)LIX\>QVaT
0MZQ\IOM\W1VLQM*MI\[
Andrew Lloyd Webber
Love Never Dies
DECCA RECORDS3
10
Andrew Lloyd Webber 
may have already established his status 
as a musical-theater great, but “Love Never Dies” — the sequel to his massively successful “Phantom of the Opera” — has definitely helped to wear out his wel-come. Even if we ignore the cringe-inducing plot, in which the Phantom (Ramin Karimloo) relocates to Coney Island to stalk Christine (Sierra Boggess), the soundtrack’s emo bag-gage is a lesson in quitting while you’re ahead.
Album highlight “Till I 
Hear Her Sing” shows some of the hallmarks that made Lloyd Webber a household name: soaring, if melo-dramatic vocals, dramatic piano-and-string instrumen-tation and hurting words that tell the story of the Phantom’s lingering pain of 
losing Christine go. By stick-
ing to his tried-and-true for-mula, the English composer does remind us why we fell in love with his work.
Then “The Beauty 
Underneath” — Lloyd Webber’s attempt to tweak his soul key for the modern listener — reminds us why sequels usually suck. The track ventures into heavy metal territory, pushing oddly jarring, disjointed amalgamation with snarling vocals, guitar riffs, a jaunty drumbeat and a screaming finale. Although it breaks the broody love-ballad precedent, “Underneath” becomes the end-all indica-tor that Lloyd Webber is trying way too hard. 
From that point on, the 
soundtrack blends together into one long, angsty whine. “The Phantom Confronts Christine” fails as a tumultu-ous duet between the lovers, 
but turns into an impressive 
vocal exercise for Boggess, whose chords climb to awe-inspiring octaves and vibrate with all the trills of a sea-soned diva. We’re left gaping at her inhuman abilities, yet are unable to remember anything about the song itself — or what any of it is 
supposed to mean. 
— Angela Chen
Senior Staff Writer,ZWX\PM+]Z\IQVWV?MJJMZ¸.I[\By Neda Salamat
Staff Writer
Green Zone” follows patriotic 
Chief Miller (Matt Damon) on his hunt for weapons of 
mass destruction through a war-torn Iraq.  As its WMD team raids empty warehouses and other abandoned, deteriorating build-ings, Miller begins to suspect that the intelligence arriving from undisclosed source “Magellan” are bogus. After a series of dead ends, a tip from local Iraqi Freddy (Khalid Abdalla) leads Miller to a meeting of Saddam’s closest con-sorts. Moxie-filled Miller follows a blood-spattered road — lead-ing him to a mess of government cover-ups that he’s determined to unveil.
Though “Zone” is bolstered 
and simultaneously crippled by its close-to-home plot line — revisiting the unraveling Iraq war so soon after the WMD debacle arouses passionate emotions of antagonism from both sides of the political spectrum, it wouldn’t be nearly as emotionally engaging without. 
Struggling with its plot, “Green 
Zone” also wrestles to acquire 
»*W]ZVM¼8PW\WKWXa?MQOP\MLQV*IOPLIL*IOOIOM
Green Zone
STARRING MATT DAMON & KHALID ABDALLA
DIRECTED BY PAUL GREENGRASS
RATED R
01:55
See ZONE, page 12
<0)66=)4 )6<17;+):;
<0-51+0)-4+-:))?):,Playing part-time lover and full-time friend to 
Ellen Page never gave Michael Cera much time to hone a versatile skill set. So it’s only natural 
that he’ d play himself in the most abhorrently quirky “comedy” of the year:  “Paper Heart. ” 
Cera’s the awkward turtle that Hollywood recur-
rently beckons from Canadian waters to launch 
cute indie com-edy after cute indie comedy 
to the big time. And, somewhere 
between his penchant for sweaty palms and googly-eyed stares in “Paper Heart, ” we do get 
the sense that Cera’s well aware of just how adorable he is.
It’s bad enough that the film centers on the 
humdrum, highly simplified documentary of a sheltered young “comedian” (of the non-funny variety) questioning the existence of true love 
only to (surprise!) become enamored with Cera. But when the lovable dweeb-osaurus appears onscreen as himself , “Paper Heart” 
becomes mired in a pathetic attempt to forge a new genre in film: Faction. It ends up doing for indie love flicks what “The Soloist” did for 
the Oscars: tug all tropes to vie for a nomina-tion as this year’s best — of course, failing miserably. “Paper Heart” may surpass Cera’s 
personal record for the most awkward silenc-es in a single film, but that’s about it.
— Leila Haghighat
Senior Staff Writer
?7:;<+):--:57>-
51+0)-4
+-:)
When a production company has to put a girl in her underwear on the movie poster just to attract an audience, you know it’s going to be shitty. The plot of “The Unborn” revolves around some chick hallucinating about a creepy kid, dead twins  and — oh, yeah — Nazi Germany. But all 
that doesn’t matter until halfway through the movie, when we are greeted by fucking GARY OLDMAN. 
Gary! What the heck are you doing here, old 
buddy? Why are you playing a Rabbi and per-forming exorcisms? Did “The Dark Knight”  not make you rich enough to feel comfy rejecting roles like these? Or were you simply craving spe-
cial effects — no matter how shitty — to connect with 
a new generation of garbage con-
sumers? Hope you can still sleep at night, Gary, because after watching dead babies haunt the liv-ing, I doubt we will.
— Neelab Nasraty
Staff Writer
/):A
74,5)6
Films like “Harry Potter” and “Shrek” prove that by simply combining a successful chil-dren’s book with some talk-ing monsters, you can have a nation of youngsters eating 
out of the palm of your hand. “Where the Wild Things 
Are” almost got the winning recipe right: What could go wrong with a treasured child-hood fable by Maurice Sendak and some furry costumes to work it? Turns out, in place of innocent childsplay, Spike Jonze decided to turn the film into an adult look at a child’s psyche. It’s no surprise that confused and terrified children dragged their parents out of movie theaters across America. 
Lucky for Jonze, where 
there’s a cool soundtrack and 
pretty cinematography, there’s 
a circle who will eat it up: the hipsters. With Urban Outfitters tees to match, they watched in glee as “Wild Things” shed its innocence and took its place as the latest commercial trend in the one-speed repertoire. 
— Arielle Sallai
Staff Writer
?7:;<
.7:31,;
o
t
o
h
“
t
T¹?0-:-
<0-?14,<016/;):-ºFILMREVIEW10THE UCSD GUARDIAN  MONDAY , MARCH 11, 2010  HIATUS
 	
 
 	
  	  	 		 
 
	  


 
 

   	

 	
  ! 	" # $%& '  
 ( 	)*" # $%& 

 !" 
& 	 +	" 
#
$
%!
 
(	 # " # $%& % &	 
% , %  "  # $%& -%%
Registration begins April 5.
Call: (800) 963-2250 ext. 60001 for more information.
  www.ccpe.csulb.edu/summer   email: summer@ccpe.csulb.edu
California State University, Long Beach 
College of Continuing and Professional EducationSummer Sessions
2010 at CSULB
No formal admission to CSULB required
"%$#$'"(%""*")# &+##
One 12-Week Session
June 1-August 20 (SSD)Two 6-Week Sessions
June 1-July 9 (S1S)
July 12-August 20 (S3S)
<]dEYj
@a_`dYf\k0
Green Zone (R)
In Pure Digital Cinema; $5.50 All Day Tuesday
Fri & Sat: (12:00), (2:45), 5:15, 8:00, 10:45
Sun - Thu: (12:00), (2:45), 5:15, 8:00
Remember Me (PG-13)
In Pure Digital Cinema; $5.50 All Day Tuesday
Fri & Sat: (10:00 AM), (12:45), (3:15), 5:45, 8:15, 10:45
Sun - Thu: (10:00 AM), (12:45), (3:15), 5:45, 8:15
She's Out of My League (R)
In Pure Digital Cinema; $5.50 All Day Tuesday
Fri & Sat: (11:30 AM), (2:15), 4:45, 7:30, 10:00
Sun - Thu: (11:30 AM), (2:15), 4:45, 7:30
Alice in Wonderland in Disney Digital 3D (PG) 
Special Engagement; 3D Pricing Applies; In Pure Digital Cinema
Fri & Sat: (10:00 AM), (11:00 AM), (12:30), (1:45), 
(3:00), 4:15, 5:30, 7:00, 8:00, 9:45, 10:30Sun - Thu: (10:00 AM), (11:00 AM), (12:30), (1:45), (3:00), 4:15, 5:30, 7:00, 8:00
Brooklyn's Finest (R)
$5.50 All Day Tuesday; In Pure Digital Cinema
Fri & Sat: (11:15 AM), (2:00), 5:00, 7:45, 10:45
Sun - Thu: (11:15 AM), (2:00), 5:00, 7:45Shutter Island (R)
$5.50 All Day Tuesday; In Pure Digital Cinema
Fri & Sat: (10:30 AM), (1:30), 4:30, 7:30, 10:30Sun - Thu: (10:30 AM), (1:30), 4:30, 7:30
Percy Jackson & the Olympians: The 
Lightning Thief (PG)
$5.50 until 4PM Tuesdays; In Pure Digital Cinema
Fri - Thu: (10:15 AM), (4:00)
Valentine's Day (PG-13)
$5.50 All Day Tuesday; In Pure Digital Cinema
Fri & Sat: (1:15), 7:15, 10:15
Sun - Thu: (1:15), 7:15
Parent Movie Morning: Remember Me 
at 10:00 am on Wednesday. Bring the Baby!
Strawberry Shortcake: A Berryfest Princess 
Movie (G) In Pure Digital Cinema; General Audiences
Sat & Sun: 10:30 AM
>LLRVM[OYV\NOEakkagfNYdd]q
;af]eYk
Green Zone (R)
In Pure Digital Cinema; $5.50 All Day Tuesday
Fri & Sat: (11:00 AM), (2:00), 5:00, 8:00, 10:45
Sun - Wed: (11:00 AM), (2:00), 5:00, 8:00Thu: (10:00 AM), (11:00 AM), (2:00), 5:00, 8:00
Alice in Wonderland in Disney Digital 3D 
(PG)
 In Pure Digital Cinema; 3D Pricing Applies; 
Special Engagement
Fri & Sat: (11:30 AM), (2:15), 4:45, 7:30, 10:15
Sun - Thu: (11:30 AM), (2:15), 4:45, 7:30
Avatar 3D (PG-13)
In Pure Digital Cinema; 3D Pricing Applies
Fri & Sat: (12:00), (3:30), 7:00, 10:30
Sun & Mon: (12:00), (3:30), 7:00
Tue: (12:00), (3:30)
Wed: (3:30 PM)Thu: (12:00), (3:30), 7:00Carmen: Opera Wednesday at 10:30 am
Parent Movie Morning: 
Green Zone 10:00 am Thursday
The San Diego Latino Film Festival 
Through March 21
Strawberry Shortcake: A Berryfest 
Princess Movie (G)
In Pure Digital Cinema; General Audiences
Sat & Sun: 10:30 AM
>LLRVM[OYV\NO
  =PSSH3H1VSSH+YP]L3H1VSSH*(   www.LandmarkTheatres.comDYBgddYNaddY_]
;af]eYk
The Ghost Writer  (PG-13, 128m)  Dolby Digital
Fri(12), Mon(15) – Thu(18):  (1:20), (4:10), 7:00, 9:50  Sat(13) &  
Sat(14):  (10:30), 1:20, 4:10, 7:00, 9:50
North Face  (NR, 121m)  Dolby Digital  Exclusive Engagement
Fri(12), Mon(15) – Thu(18):  (1:50), 7:30 
Sat(13) & Sat(14):  (1:50), 7:30
The Last Station  (R, 112m) 
Dolby Digital, Nominated For 2 Academy Awards®!
Fri(12), Mon(15) – Thu(18):  (1:40), (4:30), 7:20, 10:10 
Sat(13) & Sat(14):  (10:50), 1:40, 4:30, 7:20, 10:10
Ajami  (NR, 120m)  Dolby SR  Exclusive Engagement
Fri(12), Mon(15) – Thu(18):  (1:30), (4:20), 7:10,  10:00  Sat(13) &  
Sat(14):  (10:40), 1:30, 4:20, 7:10, 10:00
A Single Man  (PG-13, 99m)
Dolby Stereo Nominated For An Academy Award®!
Fri(12), Mon(15) – Thu(18):  (4:40), 10:15 
Sat(13) & Sat(14):  (11:00), 4:40, 10:15
The Girl With The Dragon Tattoo  (NR, 152m)   Exclusive Engagement
Opens Friday, March 19th - see our web site for more info
:[HY[PUN[OL^LLRVM-YPKH`4HYJO[O
 ,S*HTPUV9LHS:HU+PLNV*(   /HaHYK*LU[LY+YP]L:HU+PLNV*(   
Among the sea of delicate 
acoustic numbers vying 
for the top spot in the Sun God Battle of the Bands, Seriously promises the sharp beeps and strong beats we’ll need to start the party right. With icy robot synths and rock vocals, first track “Immaculate Addiction” could vaguely resemble  Daft 
Punk, if we’re drunk enough. It’s a crowd-pleaser with a chest-buzzing beat and a shiny techno gaudiness that’s refreshing in a pool of bland hipster minimalism. The lyr-ics start out self-consciously saccharine — mostly laments about addiction and intoxication — but punchy tones, far-off handclaps  
and an emphatic chorus proclaiming they can’t stop ’til they get enough (haven’t heard that one before) carry attitude to fill the Loft’s humble dance floor. 
Seriously’s second sample 
for voters, “Been So Long, ” takes the glam down a notch with plaintive vocals over rip-pling guitar, taut drumbeats and the occasionally twinkle of synth. It’s a boy-meets-girl story, with lyrics catchy enough for a sing-along, breathy vocals and a wailing guitar solo for a little edge.
Other bands may 
boast sweeter sounds or more sparkling story, but Seriously is a breath of fresh air — a loud, unapologetic band, here to get the crowd pumped for the best day of the year.
— Angela Chen
Senior Staff WriterWe might not have swing-danced since junior high, 
but Mad Traffic’s about to give us a reason to dust off the moves. The band’s only been around since May 2008, but its members are veterans at the biz: Blaise Garza played sax with the Violet Femmes, and bassist Chris Murray and gui-tarist Brian Fleck performed as part of reggae group High Tide at Sun God Festival 2007. 
The band’s swing-rock 
hinges on the jaunty singing of Blaise Guld — yeah, there are two Blaises in Traffic — like a dapper version of Jim Morrison in “People Are Strange. ” Instead of drowning out Guld’s delivery, the drum and guitars support it, restrain-ing themselves to simple and insistent rhythms that’ll get your head bobbing.
Don’t expect any huge 
choruses, though. Even when Traffic repeats riffs to build tension, like in “Waiting on Luck, ” it’s not a prelude to a an arena-rock yell-along — just a way to make it feel urgent. Usually that’ d be a massive disappointment, but the pro-longed outro-solo in “Luck” satisfies even after the track fades out. If you can stand a little restraint in your music, do us Sun God early birds a favor and vote for a band that makes it worth rushing the wristband booth.
— Matthew Pecot
Associate Hiatus EditorMAD
TRAFFICSERIOUSLY
We’re less than two months from the Sun God festival, and the 25 student bands fighting to be this year’s opener are counting down the days. Only five bands will invade the Loft for a Battle of the Bands on April 3, and you can pick one of them by 
voting  at www. sungodfestival.ucsd.edu. The other four will be chosen by A.S. Concerts And Events. Sure, we have no control over 
this year’s headliner, but the opener is in our hands. So boot up your laptop, crank up the speakers and take your pick.ROCK THE VOTE I OUR PICKS
RONNIE STEINITZ/G UARDIANHIATUS MONDAY , MARCH 11, 2010  THE UCSD GUARDIAN 11
	


 !"
#  $  %
&  !
#!!
' !"( 
()*
+,-%
.
/+	


 !"
#  $  %
&  !
#!!
' !"( 
()*
+,-%
.
/+
	
 	

 	
   	
  
 	

 
	
		 
	
	
  
 	 	 		
 	 		 
   	
			  	
		 
3/11/10ads todayLegally Blonde
The Musicalin San Diego!PAGE
12Earth Hour:March 27 from8:30-9:30 pm PAGE
11Interested in SportsManagement? PAGE
14Pond Skimming& frozen T-shirtcontest @ Mt. High PAGE
15TRACKREVIEWS
‘All We Do Is Win’
DJ Khaled
WE THE BEST/ E1 MUSIC
The fact that DJ Khaled’s latest has a guest list three times as long as 
the track’s title should be a blood-red flag for the rap-game weary. He tried the same thing four years ago with “We Takin’ Over, ” 
but at least back then, Lil Wayne still had something to say. This time, all Khaled pulls from Ludacris and Co. is masturbatory filler, with whoops whenever Luda pauses for a breather. Though a couple rising synths do lend the beat weight, all illusion of epic climax is stretched too thin for even Snoop Dogg to save. T-Pain isn’t inspired into explor-ing the great big world outside his new iPhone App, either, wheezing through the Auto-Tuned chorus until his screeches of “Win!” have degraded him from “I’m on a Boat” legend to yesterday’s squeeze toy.
— Matthew Pecot
Associate Hiatus Editor3
10‘Let It Be’
Kris Allen
19 RECORDINGS/ JIVE
Nothing like a tragedy to bring out the talentless hacks for a bit of media attention — somehow Kris Allen, the forgettable winner of last season’s “ American Idol, ” managed to butcher 
the Beatles’ classic “Let It Be” in the name of helping Haiti. Allen’s whiny, hyper-emotive voice cuts in over the contemplative piano riff, caterwauling the lyrics with self-absorbed sentimentality. Allen’s forced vibrato and his insistence on deviating from the original melody detracts from its raw beauty, and in an egotis-tic attempt at showcasing his voice, Allen trashes the original’s grandiose middle section and choral backing — amounting to a substance-less diddy. He might as well be singing in the shower. 
— Bryan Kim
Staff Writer2
10‘Cause and Effect’
Prince
NPG RECORDS
The fresh batch of fans Prince collected after his rock med-ley Super Bowl 51 performance will probably be thrown off by the funkadelic start of “Cause and Effect. ” A wah-wah 
guitar rocks the intro over a fake crowd before downshifting into pop-rock blues, a launch point from which Prince’s high-pitched quaver slithers into your head and sticks. A synthesized string orchestra and an interlude where Prince addresses the fake crowd keep “Cause” unpredictable and engaging. The fact that this doesn’t make the track a confusing mess is a testament to the production quality of this fresh and solid song from the Artist Formerly Known as the Love Symbol.
— Bryan Kim
Staff Writer7
101<¼;),)6+-7.."<-)5;<?7;<-8<767
By Arielle Sallai
Staff Writer
UCSD hermits holed up in Geisel library may not be privy to this, but some of their classmates can 
pop, lock and drop it with the best of the hip-hop world.  It’s all a part of the burgeoning dance scene in Southern California that’s managed to make a name for itself — in a big way — on our very own campus. 
Some of the most talented teams 
in the country will be coming out on March 28, when the Multi-Asian Student Association (MASA) and Second to None (220) dance com-pany hold their annual Fusion dance competition at RIMAC Arena. 
In its 11-year history, Fusion 
has become one of the most promi-nent hip-hop competitions on the West Coast and the largest Asian-American-directed student-run event at UCSD. Seating over 3,000 attendees, the competition has seen an incredible increase in turnout over the past few years.    
Crews like Jabbawockeez and 
Poreotics — both from MTV’s “ America’s Best Dance Crew” — have 
performed at RIMAC Arena in pre-vious years.  With the inclusion of such well known and high-caliber teams, the competition at FUSION has grown exponentially.  
“The competition’s stakes con-
tinue to increase every year, ” said 220 member, FUSION coordinator and Sixth College junior Chesley Tolentino.  “Teams continually keep progressing and getting more cre-ative, which makes the stakes even higher than the year before. ”
Though 220 does not compete, 
because they coordinate the event they typically perform as an exhibi-tion team instead.  Competing teams include “ ABDC” favorites Kaba Modern, as well as groups from various colleges and studios across California. The coordinators hope these teams will embody the strong dance world of Southern California and San Diego.  
“We feel ‘ America’s Best Dance 
Crew’ gives a very limited view of the hip-hop dance community, ” FUSION coordinator and Sixth College junior Kathy Fan said. “There are so many teams right here in San Diego that can compete with the very best. ”
Southern California’s booming 
hip-hop scene will certainly be well-represented at the show.  Several of the competing teams are from UC Irvine in particular, where “their dance is kind of like their football team, ” Tolentino said. “That’s how big and famous their dancers are. ”  
And the performers definitely 
show just as much commitment to their art as any D-I football player. 
“Most of the competing teams 
are petty intense, ” Tolentino said.  “Sometimes they practice everyday until five in the morning and then go to school at 8 a.m. Every team wants to raise up the intensity and difficulty of their routines, so they have to work extra hard every year. ”  
Besides providing dancers a 
platform for competition, the event’s coordinators also aim to bring awareness and visibility to Asian-Americans in the dance world.  
“Fusion is, quite literally, the 
annual fusion of the two organiza-tions to put on a show that reflects both the love of dance from 220 and the importance of Asian-American culture from MASA, ” Fan said.  
By combining MASA ’s goals with 
220’s talents, the two groups hope to demonstrate the growing promi-nence of Asian-Americans in the hip-hop community.  
“ Asian-Americans never really had 
a voice and were kind of the minor-ity in the hip-hop community, ” said Tolentino. “It has progressed so much over the years, so that now Asian-Americans are everywhere in hip-hop. ”
Accordingly, the organizers have 
chosen this year’s competition theme to be “Dimensions of a Generation. ”
“[The theme] focuses on the fact 
that the presence and breakthroughs of Asian Americans in the hip-hop community are not limited to just our generation but the ones before and definitely the ones after, ” Fan said. 
Fusion will also include art, spo-
ken word, music and other cultural acts — notably performances from UCSD’s Kaibigang Pilipino Club and the Daughters of Triton vocal ensemble.  
Fusion will be held at RIMAC 
Arena on March 28 at 6 p.m.  
FESTIVALPREVIEW12THE UCSD GUARDIAN  MONDAY , MARCH 11, 2010  HIATUS
an identity separate from the lat-
est Bourne films. Fiery explosions, a barrage of bullets and nonstop high-speed chases on foot, in cars and by helicopter whets all the appetites of action-connoisseurs that were left dry once “Bourne Supremacy” finished its theatric run. “Zone” successfully brings 
the reality of Iraq to the American 
cinema.  Scenes of gritty dirt-covered streets and buildings rav-aged with poverty provoke pangs of sympathy — as civilians dash sporadically through the chaos, screeching as their clothing blooms crimson blood. Miller’s trip to the local penitentiary is equally bone-rattling: set to a ominous score, he travels amongst rows of prisoners in squalor each sporting black hoods or beaten so badly that their skin is hanging from their bones. “Zone” adopts its predecessors unpopu-lar attributes as well — the shaky camera hand. A characteristic of Greengrass’ work, the technique is utilized in excess throughout the 
film, inciting some moments of unpleas-ant “Cloverfield” vertigo.
Another 
Greengrass staple, Matt Damon, in his performance as Miller, both successfully and unremarkably walks the blurry line of national loyalty — he never outwardly betrays his country. Instead he confuses his audience, delving into the bowels of the American intel, carv-ing out injustices and shooting up Iraqis like a true patriot. Abdalla’s impas-sioned performance as Miller’s Iraqi sidekick is the most convinc-ing — his desperate, breathless pleas on behalf of the Iraqi people add humanity to the film’s otherwise holistic bloodbath.
Though ironically un-rev-
olutionary, “Green zone” is an unashamed political action-flick which arouses adequate levels of anxious bile and American humil-ity — doused with just enough dynamite to keep it from becom-ing too tangled in its own political introspective. 
Hey UCSD!  Can’t decide who’ll be the designated driver tonight? 
Call up Cali Party Bus and sit back and enjoy the ride!  This premiere limo and party bus company provides transportation to San Diegans anywhere and everywhere, guaranteeing you will have a great night.  Us college kids are always looking for ways to make a party that much more wild and Cali Party Bus is the perfect way to keep the dance party going all night long!  Spring Break is right around the corner, and whether you want to blow off some steam after your grueling finals or flee to Vegas for the weekend, Cali Party Bus will take you where you want to go. They tailor their events to many different events, including 24-hour emergency charters, sporting events, birthdays, wine tours, and so much more. Make your wild night safe, fun and memorable with one of Cali Party Bus’ luxury transportations 
- and don’t forget to tell them the Guardian referred you.  whelming majority on campus.
Those who care enjoy a healthy 
social life by participating in stu-
dent orgs and attending on-campus events, forging a community in the starved business-park landscape that is La Jolla. They’re conscious of what goes on at school. Although they often feel hopeless in such a barren atmosphere, they do their best to seek others who care. They’re inclusive, but they stick together and bond on the tiny island that rests in a sea of the majority: those who don’t.
This other mass of students isn’t 
fully at fault for not caring — com-petition is fierce here, so constant study sessions are essential to grad-school acceptance — but in the past few weeks of real pain and frustra-tion, chants of “Whose university?” made it abundantly clear who has shaped this school more than any-one else: the apathetic. They are the majority; they are oblivious and often selfish. To these students — many of 
whom I realize don’t bother to read this paper — I ask you all to please take a deep breath and look outside yourself. Are you happy with your university? More importantly, are you satisfied with your life here? Forget the free speech debate, forget whether or not you think the Koala ’s 
funny, forget the absurd idea that we live in a “post-racial” society (what-ever that means) — just picture a black student coming here as a fresh-man, not knowing anyone. Do you honestly believe that this campus would provide a nurturing environ-ment for him or her? 
To me, that seems like a nearly 
impossible task — at least, as the school stands today. I came here with the same skin color as about 40 percent of my peers, and for over a year I’ d never felt more alone in my life. The only reason I survived UCSD is because a small, tight-knit group of Guardian  editors and writ-
ers formed a social scene in a vacu-um, managing an elusive good time on an island of our own. These were friends I could party with, have close conversation with, create a commu-nity with — basically, human beings. I can’t thank them enough for that. They are the reason I will leave this confused institution with some dig-nity, knowing that we did our best to influence the apathetic boulder’s path toward self-interest. Because it’s not all about you.  
I felt a mix of serious pride and 
exhaustion as many of us  walked 
out of the administration’s teach-in, chanting “Real pain, real action, ” like we depended on those words to endure here. It didn’t matter that we were only a few hundred shouting our heads off while thou-sands upon thousands of kids in rooms all across campus stared at PowerPoints with glazed eyeballs. For the first time, I actually felt honored to call myself a UCSD student. Thank you, those who care, for sharing these few prized moments with me. It feels like a sea change.       
8IZ\QVO)L^QKM"2]VS1VLQNNMZMVKMIVL;\IZ\+IZQVO
▶ STEEZ, MYVTWHNL
at my little eight-track  and record 
for hours and hours. I’ d record stuff all day, and by 3 a.m., I’ d have a track finished. I was just calling it an island ’ cause I was there alone, and I felt like I could do whatever I wanted there. I was a really anxious and shy kid, so it provided a great respite from my school life.G: I saw you guys play at the Cuba 
St. Carnival in Wellington last sum-mer when I was studying abroad there, and it seemed like the perfect setting and season for your music. But what’s your favorite show envi-ronment and why?RM: Random! That was kind of a weird show because the audi-ence was such a cross section of Wellington. I’m sure plenty of people there thought we were weirdos, but it was OK ’ cause we had lots of friends there, and got some friends and my sister — who was over from the U.S. — up to play with us. Probably my favorite show was at a summer festi-val we have here called Camp A Low Hum. It’s quite an informal festival, and we’ve played there the last three years; 2009 was my favorite year. We played pretty much in the forest, sur-rounded by huge trees. We were hav-ing a great time, and the crowd was super pumped too. G: So what’s the current lineup for 
this tour, and what plans do you have going forward to the end of the year?RM: I’ve got a new group of friends coming on this next bit of touring. Alistair Deverick on drums and Graham Panther on bass, synth and other stuff. I mostly play guitar and my drum pad. And sing, of course. We’ve got the next few months agot tentative touring plans through to the Northern Hemisphere’s autumn. We’ll probably get back to NZ when it starts warming up again. Three summers in a row!
6M_BMITIVLMZ[;XQTTWV)V\Q+WUUMZKQIT+ZMLW
▶ SUNS, MYVTWHNL;IVL;Y]ITWZIVL8IVLMUWVQ]U
▶ ZONE, MYVTWHNL 
Guardian Classifieds are placed online and are FREE for UCSD. Low cost classified placements for our print 
edition are also available to the UCSD campus and the public at   ucsdguardian.campusave.com
Guardian Classifieds are placed online and are FREE for UCSD. Low cost classified placements for our print edition are also available to the UCSD campus and the public at   
ucsdguardian.campusave.comCLASSIFIEDS THURSDAY, MARCH 11, 2010 THE UCSD GUARDIAN 13Level:1234
Level:1234
Level:123 4
Level:123 4Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
Find the Sudoku solutions online at ucsdguardian.org.
Complete the grid so
each row, column and3-by-3 box (in boldborders) containsevery digit, 1 to 9. Forstrategies on how tosolve Sudoku, visitwww.sudoku.org.uk
SOLUTION TO
SATURDAY’S PUZZLELevel:
1 2
34
© 2009 The Mepham Group. Distributed by
Tribune Media Services. All rights reserved.9/14/09Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies 
on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.uk
3/08/10 Crossword SolutionLevel:1234
Level:1234
Level:123 4
Level:123 4Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
Level:
12
34Level:
12
34Level:1234
Level:1234
Level:123 4
Level:123 4Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
CAMPUS LIFE
Local gay tennis organization 
seeks competitive gay tennis players for California Cup com-petition against SF and LA. Are you A, Open, 4.5+? Contact us for more information at: sdgay-tennis@gmail.com. (4/8)
JOBS
Intern Position at Carmel Valley Investment Banking Group; Gain exposure to private equi-ty, public companies, investor relations. Fast paced. Phone and Internet marketing skills a plus. (858) 456-7300 Resume: cc@sdthc.com (3/29)
UCSD BLOOD DONOR ALLERGY 
STUDY: Subjects with current allergy symptoms to inhaled allergens (cat, grass, dust mite), needed as blood donors for research study requiring dona-tion of blood and allergy skin testing. Will be reimbursed $100 for completion of two clinic visit study. Contact Dr. Broide, Department Medicine (858) 534-2033. (4/8)
BUSINESS/ ECONOMICS 
MAJORS. Princeton Review Internship-PAID $15-$20/HOUR.  Marketing/Sales. PART TIME POSITIONS Available. 619-569-9351 PLEASE LEAVE: Name/Number/University/Year/Major/The Guardian-UCSD (4/15)
Earn Extra Money Students 
needed ASAP . Earn up to $150 per day being a Mystery Shopper. No Experience Required. Call 1-800-722-4791 (4/26)Summer Day Camp Jobs : San Fernando & Conejo Valleys.  Counselors, Lifeguards, And Instructors for Gym, Horses, Arts & Crafts, Music & Much More! $3275-$3500+ /summer 888-784-CAMP www.workat-camp.com (5/13)
L.A. AREA SUMMER DAY 
CAMPS Swimming, horses, sports, arts & crafts, beaches, ropes courses and more. Gain valuable experience working with children in a variety of fun camp settings. www.daycamp-jobs.com (5/20)
SERVICES
HARLOW HAIRSALON in La Jolla  -50% ON WEDNESDAYS ! Haircuts, styles ,colors and hi-lights are HALF price on wednesdays with a UCSD I.D. www.harlowhairsalon.com Call 858-459-0642. (3/11)
ONLINE
GUARDIAN 
CLASSIFIEDS
FOR UCSD STAFF
AND STUDENTS
UCSDGURDIAN.
CAMPUSAVE.
COM
PRINT CLASSIFIEDS
AVAILABLE:
$5 for 30 words per issuepost.
print.edit.renew.
CLICK ON “BUSINESS CENTER” AT THE TOPBUSINESS
CENTERONLINE
• GET YOUR CREDIT SCORE
• STOCK QUOTES• VIEW YOUR CREDIT REPORT
• RESEARCH & COMPARE
   CREDIT CARDS
• APPLY FOR 
   LOANS
ucsdguardian.org14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN Ê THURSDA Y , MARCH 11, 2010 Ê SPORTS
TRITONS SWEEP PIONEERS TO MAKE IT TEN STRAIGHT
By Cameron Tillisch
S/e.sc/n.sc/i.sc/o.sc/r.sc S/t.sc/a.sc/f.sc/f.sc W/r.sc/i.sc/t.sc/e.sc/r.sc
BASEBALL — In their first series 
on the road, the No. 2 UCSD men’s 
baseball team mixed an effective balance of pitching and offense to sweep its fourth series of the season against Cal State East Bay on March 6, winning by scores of 5-3, 3-2, 12-7 and 18-5. UCSD improved to 19-3 overall, 10-2 in California Collegiate Athletic Association action while the Pioneers fell to 5-13-1 overall, and 2-10 in CCAA play. 
UCSD showcased a couple of 
solid outings off of the mound. In the first game, junior starting pitcher Tim Shibuya improved to 5-0 by tossing nearly seven innings, scat-tering nine hits and allowing three earned runs. Shibuya cruised through five innings, but let up in the final two frames allowing one run in the sixth inning, and two in the sev-enth. However senior first baseman Brandon Gregorich and junior catch-er Michael Benton provided ample offense, hitting two RBIs a piece to help the Tritons to a 5-3 win.
In game two, junior right-hander 
Guido Knudson made his second start of the season after being moved from the closer role into the rota-tion. Coming off of a no-hit bid in his first start, Knudson once again proved comfortable in a starting role. He electrified opposition hitters — pitching a complete game, striking out 11 Pioneers and allowing just two earned runs — and led UCSD to a victory despite receiving only 3 runs of support from the offense. 
“ As a team, over the series we 
found ways to get out of jams on the mound and avoid the big inning while the offense had timely hit-ting, ” Knudson said. “Solid defense as usual leads to good things all the way around, and we played well in the field. We had guys step up out of the bullpen in tight games. Basically, we found ways to pick each other up in each game and get a win. ”
Knudson was also quick to cred-
it his pitching performance to his catchers and the advice of assistant coach Ryan Leake.“For me on the mound, the abil-
ity to mix well and locate fastballs consistently was the key, ” Knudson said. “I think me, [junior catchers] Mike Benton and Kellen Lee and Leake really had a good approach to their hitters, and kept them off bal-ance with pitches down in the zone. Catchers did an awesome job and deserve much of the credit for that game, as well as Coach Leake calling a great game, ” Knudson said.
The Tritons, who boast a .385 team 
batting average, brought their bats with them on Saturday and Sunday after lackluster offensive output on Friday’s doubleheader. On Saturday, the heart of the order showed up as Gregorich and junior third baseman Evan Kehoe combined for six hits and eight RBIs.
The support was enough to 
pick up senior right-hander Matt Rossman, who was not as sharp as usual. Rossman, usually in command of the opposition, walked four hit-ters but grinded out five and one-third innings allowing just three earned runs. The senior showed grit and exemplified how a veteran gets through a game even without his best material. The Tritons beat the Pioneers 12-7 in the game. 
“They were definitely a better 
team than their record reflected, ” Rossman said. “They had some good arms and battled pretty well at the plate. Our offense battled all week-end, and we played solid defense on a rain-soaked field from the days prior. ”
Seeking a series sweep in game 
four, the UCSD offense exploded for 22 hits and 18 runs on Sunday. Leading the onslaught was senior outfielder Robert Sedin, who went three for four with a home run and five RBIs. Lee notched four hits of his own including a homer, and junior left fielder Aaron Bauman went deep, finishing three for four with three runs and three RBIs.
Although the offense effectively 
decided the result, senior right-hand-er Kirby St. John had a nice outing, going six innings and allowing just two runs. 
“We will prepare for the next 
series with high-intensity practices just like we do every week, ” Knudson 
said. “It’s no different week in and week out; we just go out and have quality practices. This team has a great chemistry and has a good time, and it keeps us going week in and week out. We play Sonoma this week, but it does nothing to change our preparation. ”
The Tritons return to Triton 
Baseball Stadium for another home stand on March 12 as they host Sonoma State. The Seawolves are 8-9, 2-6 CCAA so far this year. Last year, Sonoma State took three of four games in conference play, and the Tritons got revenge by taking three of four in postseason action.
Readers can contact Cameron Tillisch 
at ctillisc@ucsd.edu.
JOHN  HANACEK /GUARDIAN  FILE
UCSD beat Cal State East Bay 18-5 on March 6 for the team’s 10th consecutive  win in a row, making 22 hits against Pioneer pitching. Next up, the Tritons will take on Sonoma State at home on March 12.
THIS IS THE GAME THAT WILL  CHANGE YOUR LIFE!
ULTRAZONE
3146 Sports Arena Blvd.  n  San Diego, CA 
One Block East of SD Sports Arena!
(619) 221-0100  n  www.ultrazonesandiego.com
UP TO 36  
PLAYERS PER GAME
HUGE MULTI-LEVEL ARENA
UCSD GROUP  EVENT DISCOUNT
LATE NIGHT  AT THE ZONE 
Open Until 2am  
Fri. & Sat.
PARTY AREA  
TO 120 GUESTS
ULTRAZONE  — The Ultimate Laser Adventure
Lorinda Owens
6 in. x 5 in.UC San DiegoPub Date: 3/11/10with a master’s degree in Sport Management . 
This accelerated program prepares you for the business of  
sport management. 
Free information sessions  are held monthly. 
Come join us on April 6, 6:30 pm
California State University, Long BeachThe Walter PyramidLong Beach, CA 90805
Call us today to RSVP at 
(800) 963-2250  
or register online at  
ccpe.csulb.edu/sportmgmt  Reach Higher
BELLA BRAZIL
1761 Garnet Avenue in Pacific Beach858.964.510920%OFF
BRAZILIAN WAX
with a UCSD Student IDADVANCED SKINCARE
& WAXING SERVICES
www.BellaBrazilSpa.com
CLICK ON“TRAVEL DEALS”
AT THE TOPSPRING BREAKTRAVEL DEALS!ONLINE
mexico • bahamas • jamaica •
mexico • bahamas • jamaica •mexico • bahamas • jamaica •
 ﬂorida
ﬂorida
 mexico • las vegas
mexico • las vegas
 mexico • bahamas • jamaica •
 mexico • las vegas
 mexico • bahamas • jamaica •
 ﬂorida
 mexico • las vegas
 ﬂorida
4
Expires 4/30/10 Prints22SPORTSÊ THURSDA Y , MARCH 11, 2010 Ê THE UCSD GUARDIAN 15 
TheÊBallerÊ
RivalryÊBegins
the season with 14 consecutive wins, 
a school record start to the sea-son. But when the Tritons traveled to Lumberjack Arena on Jan. 21, Humboldt gave them more than they could handle, breaking the Tritons’ perfect start with an 84-80 victory. 
UCSD then hosted the 
Lumberjacks on Feb. 26 for the reg-ular-season finale, looking to avenge their early season loss. The game was essentially over by halftime, as the Tritons crushed the Lumberjacks 86-51. Only a week later, on March 5, the Tritons returned to Lumberjack Arena and were once again stunned by Humboldt, losing 82-78 as the Lumberjacks advanced to the tourna-ment final.
The Tritons will have to step 
up their defense to have a chance against the Lumberjacks, who are the best three-point -shooting team 
in the conference. Humboldt made 11 three-pointers in the team’s last meeting, including eight in the sec-ond half.
“Humboldt is playing extremely 
well right now, and we are going to have to do a better job defend-ing, ” head coach  Charity Elliott said. 
“It’s tournament time, which means everyone is playing a with a greater sense of urgency. ”
The Tritons will also need to cool 
the hot hand of Andrea Bobic, a second-team all-CCAA player that led the conference in three-pointers, not to mention shot 42 percent from beyond the arc. 
The first three rounds of the tour-
nament will be played on a neutral court at Seattle Pacific University. If the Tritons can get past Humboldt State, they will face the winner of the Western Washington University and Chico State matchup the following night. 
“We are very excited to be playing 
in the NCAA tournament, ” Elliott said. “This is what we’ve been waiting for. It’s time to put it all together and see what happens. ”
Readers can contact Liam Rose at  /uni25B6 W. BASKETB ALL, fromÊpageÊ16UCSDÊScoresÊRoadÊWinÊinÊNorCal,ÊSweepsÊDixieÊatÊRIMAC
By Yvonne Chow
S/t.sc/a.sc/f.sc/f.sc W/r.sc/i.sc/t.sc/e.sc/r.sc
SOFTBALL — The UCSD women’s 
softball players finally started seeing the fruits of their labor when they played San Francisco State on March 5-6, winning three of their four head-to-head games. The Tritons scored decisive wins in the two-day encoun-ter, a reversal from last week’s series against Sonoma State that saw them drop three out of four. Following the series win in San Francisco, the Tritons came home to sweep non-conference opponents Dixie State College in a double header on March 9 at the RIMAC softball diamond. 
“We worked really hard in prac-
tice, and really knew this was our turning point, ” junior infielder Jennifer De Fazio said. “We came together, finally started hitting like a team and executed everything we needed to make the nec-essary adjustments. ” 
In the first game 
against San Francisco, the Gators only managed one run against sopho-more Camille Gaito and junior Brittany Sheats, who worked the mound effectively. Gaito struck out seven Gators and allowed five hits throughout the game before Sheats relieved her, holding the San Francisco scoreless in the seventh inning. 
Although they initially strug-
gled against the Gator pitching, the Tritons started to inflict damage once they made the necessary adjustments in their approach at the plate.
In the third inning, sophomore 
outfielder Kellin Haley doubled in junior outfielder Kris Lesovsky to put the Tritons on the board and tie the score 1-1. 
Back-to-back doubles from cap-
tain senior catcher Nicole Saari and freshman infielder Nicole Spangler secured UCSD’s win, combining for three of five Tritons runs in the fifth inning. The Triton defense held off the Gators till the seventh inning and the team won 6-1. 
“Our hitting came together; we rallied a lot of runs together, and really merged as a team, ” junior infielder Jennifer De Fazio said. 
Lesovsky was the star of Friday’s 
game, hitting a lead off homerun to left field to put the Tritons up 1-0 early. Costly errors in the third inning gave San Francisco State a run that tied the game, but the Tritons came back in the fourth inning thanks to a single from freshman infielder Katie Belanger that allowed junior outfielder Katrin Gabriel to score. Lesovsky’s sacrifice fly also brought home junior outfielder Lyndsay Gaylord. 
The Tritons finished off the day 
strong when sophomore pitcher Tess Granath struck out seven Gator 
hitters in the final 4.2 innings. After coming back from an injury in the fall, her career-high strikeout tally was anoth-er example of the Tritons’ strong pitching. 
“It’s great to see her 
back, ” head coach Patti Gerckens said. “She did a great job, came in, and shut them down. ” 
Saturday’s double-
header began with the Gators scoring a 3-1 vic-tory, threatening to earn a series split. However, in 
the second game, UCSD broke open a scoreless tie with nine runs in the final inning to claim the game 9-2, and the series 3-1. 
The Tritons took the lead in the 
first game, tacking on a run from a Saari double that scored junior infielder Sarah Woofter. However the UCSD offense would stagnate, and San Francisco State scored a winning total of three runs.
“We are not where we want to be, 
but we are getting there with each game, ” Gerckens said. 
Tritons bats came alive in the sec-
ond game, posting a nine-spot on the scoreboard in the seventh inning. De Fazio started things off with a single to the centerfield, and was brought home by Saari’s bunt single for the first run of the game. 
Then, a tactical decision by 
Tritons hitters — to keep their weight on their back foot when at the plate — enabled them to drive their hands through the ball, hit outside pitch-es to the opposite field and string together base hits. 
“We came together to worked on 
getting players on the bases, mov-ing them to scoring positions and eventually scoring our runners, ” De Fazio said. 
The Tritons also executed with 
two outs, scoring seven more runs. Saari, Defazio, senior shortstop Mandi Eliades and Spangler each tallied two hits apiece. San Francisco State’s attempt to rally in runs fell short, ending the game 9-2.
“We played our strength, did the 
little things right and came out win-ning, ” Gerckens said.  
Tritons kept the ball rolling with a 
sweep of Dixie State College in their March 9 doubleheader at RIMAC. They won 8-2 in the first game and 3-2 in the second, propelling them to a 13-9 overall season record.
The team will hope to carry their 
current form into a two-day dou-bleheader against conference rival Cal State Stanislaus on March 12 to March 13.
Readers can contact Yvonne Chow at 
ychow@ucsd.edu.
“We worked 
really hard in practice, and really knew this was our turning point.”
JENNIFER DE FAZIO
JUNIOR INFIELDER,
WOMEN’S SOFTBALL
Who’s 
your 
 DaDDy?Need some
quick cash?
Now you can get big-time cash for your papers, 
lecture notes – even copies of last year’s tests!   “Ed the Brain”
School Daddy mascot   
To ﬁnd out how, just go to:  
DANIEL  CADDELL /GUARDIAN  FILE
Senior pitcher Christine Zankich picked up the win against Dixie State College on March 9. ANNETTE ILG
Senior guard
2nd team all-CCAA
12.0 ppg
2.0 steals
2.2 assistsNCAA PREVIEW
TIFFA NY HUNTER
Junior forward
2nd team all-CCAA
11.3 ppg
7.2 rebounds
49.1 FG%NCAA PREVIEWWWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG/SPORTSSPORTS 16
THURSDAY , MARCH 11, 2010
NO.2 UCSD VS.N O.7 H UMBOLDT  STATE
CHELSE A CARLISLE
Sophomore guard
1st team all-CCAA, CCAA MVP
Team leader in points, assists, 
steals, FT%, three-pointers
17.5 ppg
3.5 assists
2.1 steals
82.6 FT%
   marks the third        time in as many weeks the teams have met —
UCSD PLAYERS
TO WATCHNCAA
WEST REGIONAL
FIRST-R OUN D MATC HUP
2:30 p.m.
Seattle Pacific UniversityRoyal Brougham Pavilion
No. 2 UCSD (25-4, 19-3), first in CCAAvs.No. 7 Humboldt State (19-10, 14-8), fourth in CCAA12March 12, 2010
RECENT MEETINGS
HSU 84, UCSD 80
UCSD 86, HSU 5121Jan. 21 @ Humboldt
26Feb. 26 @ UCSD
BY THE N UMBER S
73.2 70.5
43.4% 41.9%
31.6% 36.3%
66.7% 68.4%
4.4 0.3
4.3 -0.4
13.1 15.9
10.1 9UCSD HSU
Points per game
Field Goal %
Three-Pt. Field Goal %
Free T hrow %
Rebound Margin
Turnover Margin
Assists per game
Steals per gameMarch is the most exciting month of 
the year for college hoops. As if the win-or-go-home formula was not enough, the NCAA ’s selection com-
mittee found a way to raise the stakes even higher for the Tritons. 
In what might be the most interesting matchup  
in the field of 64 teams, UCSD women’s basketball is scheduled to play Humboldt State in the first round of the NCAA Division-II Tournament on March  12. 
This will be the fourth meeting this season between the two teams; most recently, Humboldt pulled off an upset win on March 6, knocking the Tritons out of the California Collegiate Athletic Association Tournament. 
Humboldt went on to win the conference tour-
nament, earning an automatic berth in the NCAA tourney. The Tritons earned their bid by virtue of being CCAA regular-season champions, and seemed to be guaranteed the West Region’s No. 1 seed before the loss. Instead, the top spot went to Seattle Pacific University, and the 25-4 Tritons had to settle for the No. 2 seed. Humboldt, with only a 19-10 overall record, was given the No. 7 seed.
Nevertheless, the Tritons know full well that 
Humboldt is a dangerous team. UCSD started 
m
a
r
k
s
t
h
e
t
h
i
r
d
t
i
m
e
i
n
a
s
m
a
n
y
w
e
e
k
s
t
h
e
t
e
a
m
s
h
a
v
e
m
e
t
—
in the
See W. BASKETBALL,Ê page 15By Liam Rose
Senior Staff Writer
PHOTO  ILLUSTRATION  BY ERIK JEPSEN  & EMILY KU
      The NCAA          West Regional matchup between UCSD and HSU             and this time,                     the stakes can’t get any higher. 