:762,5 :762,5 :<9-9,769; 05:0+, 50./;>(;*/
THURSDAY
Height:  5-7 ft.
Wind: 3-6 mph
Water Temp: 64 FFRIDAY
Height:  5-6 ft.
Wind: 2-8 mph
Water Temp: 64 F
SATURDAY
Height:  5-6 ft.
Wind: 5-9 mph 
Water Temp: 64 FSUNDAY
Height:  5-6 ft.
Wind: 9-10 mph 
Water Temp: 64 FLOW
$2.95
Arco, Poway
12805 Poway Rd. & Carriage Rd.
HIGH
$3.89
76, Point Loma
1704 Rosecrans St. & Nimitz Blvd.THURSDAY FRIDAYTHURSDAY
H 69 L 54FRIDAY
H 70 L 55 THURSDAY FRIDAY.(:7,9.(3365 :<9-9,769; 50./;>(;*/ -69,*(:; >,)7633
WOULD YOU PURSUE  A THREE-YEAR DEGREE PLAN?
√  Yes
√  No
√  I don’t know:<590:,
:<5:,;5:55  A.M.
7:35  P .M.
SATURDAY
H 67 L 55SUNDAY
H 64 L 53
 SUNDAY SATURDAY WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG*VTPJZ
5L^)\ZPULZZ:LTP*VUZJPV\Z*VUZ\TLY3L[[LY[V[OL,KP[VY+Y\[OLYZ*SHZZPÄLKZ:\KVR\Talks Fail to 
Bring AboutCompromise
By Angela Chen
News Editor
The A.S. Campus Affairs Committee voted 
7-8 last night to indefinitely table a controversial 
resolution calling for the UC system to divest from General Electric and United Technologies — companies the document claims are profiting from alleged Israeli human-rights violations in the Palestinian territories.
Because the resolution was tabled during the 
committee meeting, it was not brought up during 
the council meeting last night, and will not be brought up again next year unless the resolution is rewrit-ten and submitted as a new item. 
Campuswide Senator and A.S. 
President-elect Wafa Ben Hassine, a member of the committee, said 
the issue was tabled because councilmembers thought it was repetitive to vote on an issue that had not changed since the prior debate. 
“People used the rhetoric that we’ d been 
through the same discussion last year, and since it was the same legislation, we didn’t want to go over it again, ” Ben Hassine said.
Arts and Humanities Senator Omar Khan said 
he originally wanted to re-discuss the resolution at last night’s meeting, but withdrew it because he worried it would divide the campus.
“I tried to pull it from committee because I was 
unaware that this is an issue that could be brought up again, ” he said. “I withdrew the motion because I realized that failing it or approving it would create a schism between the communities, and we want to continue the conversation. ”
The resolution was first proposed at last week’s 
meeting, which drew an audience of over 200 students. During that meeting, councilmembers amended the original resolution to remove any mention of specific nations or companies, revising it to state that the council should condemn all war crimes in general. A special committee was then charged to review the resolution. It included rep-resentatives from both SJP and Tritons for Israel, the latter of which opposed the original language.  
SJP member Leena Barakat, who helped draft 
the original resolution, said the two groups were unable to agree as to whether Israel’s actions in the Gaza Strip could be considered human rights violations, or whether Israel should be classified as an occupying force.  9,:63<;065;6+0=,:;
Divide deepens over Israel’s 
military actions in Middle East.
See RESOLUTION page 3<*)<+.,;*90:0:
(-;,9:/6*2:
WILLIAM  LOTHERINGTON /GUARDIAN
In an effort to raise awareness for Haiti, A.S. Campuswide Senator Adam Kenworthy decided to spend a week in a tent by Geisel Library.5MLQI7ZO[
;]JRMK\\W6M_.]VL4QUQ\[
By Angela Chen
News Editor
Student media organizations are 
now under a stricter funding cap, after 
the A.S. Council voted 19-0-1 last night to amend the existing guidelines.  
The changes were recommended by 
the Media Improvement Committee, charged by Transfer Senator Adam Powers and co-chaired by current Associate Vice President of Student Organizations and Vice President of 
See MEDIA FUNDS page 3<PM.I[\ MZ
<ZIKSThe university may open
a three-year graduationpathway. By Elena Chang
The University of California may cre-
ate a formal pathway for undergradu-ates to complete their degrees in  three years, based on a suggestion by the UC 
Commission on the Future. While the proposal is still in early planning stages, proponents of the idea say that a defined three-year program could help students save money, as well as alleviate decreased enrollment by letting in more undergraduates.
According to the Commission on the Future 
— a group of administrators, faculty and students charged with reviewing the university’s operations and drafting proposals to help overcome an $813 million cut in state funding as of Spring Quarter 2009 — helping students complete their degrees earlier could potentially save them thousands of dollars in student fees. The report also states that 
facilitating a “defined three-year pathway” to graduation will allow more spaces to open up for new students to enroll, thus increasing overall accessibility. 
The report estimated that if 5 to 10 percent of 
undergraduate UC students graduated one quarter or semester earlier, approximately 2,000 to 4,000 undergraduate spaces would open up.
See TRACK page 6OPINION
Faster isn’t 
always better.PAGE 4
78%YES
NO
19%I 
DON’T 
KNOW
3%SHOULD THE A.S. 
COUNCIL CONDEMN 
ALLEGED ISRAELI 
HUMAN-RIGHTS 
VIOLATIONS?
OUT OF
232 VOTESWEB POLL
PHILIP  RHIE/GUARDIANONLINE
Get ﬁlledin on thedivestment debate.
WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG THURSDAY , MAY 6, 2010 VOLUME XLII, ISSUE LIIMETAL HEAD
The ironclad wiseass is back. PAGE 7
2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN  THURSDAY , MAY 6, 2010  NEWS
;OL<*:+ .\HYKPHU  PZ W\ISPZOLK 4VUKH`Z HUK
;O\YZKH`ZK\YPUN[OLHJHKLTPJ`LHYI`<*:+Z[\KLU[Z
HUK MVY [OL <*:+ JVTT\UP[` 9LWYVK\J[PVU VM [OPZUL^ZWHWLY PU HU` MVYT ^OL[OLY PU ^OVSL VY PU WHY[^P[OV\[ WLYTPZZPVU PZ Z[YPJ[S` WYVOPIP[LK   HSSYPNO[ZYLZLY]LK;OL
<*:+.\HYKPHU PZUV[YLZWVUZPISL
MVY [OL YL[\YU VM \UZVSPJP[LK THU\ZJYPW[Z VY HY[ ;OL]PL^Z L_WYLZZLK OLYLPU KV UV[ ULJLZZHYPS` YLWYLZLU[[OLVWPUPVUZVM[OL
<*:+.\HYKPHU [OL<UP]LYZP[`VM
*HSPMVYUPHVY(ZZVJPH[LK:[\KLU[Z;OL <*:+.\HYKPHU 
PZM\UKLKZVSLS`I`HK]LY[PZPUN9LaH:PTVUL
.LULYHS,KP[VYPHS!
editor@ucsdguardian.org
5L^Z! news@ucsdguardian.org
-VJ\Z! focus@ucsdguardian.org
/PH[\Z! hiatus@ucsdguardian.org 
6WPUPVU! opinion@ucsdguardian.org
:WVY[Z! sports@ucsdguardian.org
7OV[V! photo@ucsdguardian.org           
+LZPNU! design@ucsdguardian.org
(K]LY[PZPUN!
ads@ucsdguardian.org
-H_! Page Layout
4LSVK`*OLYU9LaH-HYHaTHUK,TPS`2\)PUO5NV
(YPLSSL:HSSHP:PTVUL>PSZVU
4VUPJH)HJOTLPLY
(SMYLKV/=PSHUV1Y
9VI*VYLH
,]HU*VVRGeneral Manager
Advertising Art Director
Marketing Team LeaderNetwork Administrator              :PTVUL>PSZVU
(S`ZZH)LYLaUHR
9LaH-HYHaTHUK
/H`SL`)PZJLNSPH4HY[PU
(UNLSH*OLU
(`LSL[)P[[VU
9LNPUH0W
;YL]VY*V_
*OLY`S/VYP
=PZOHS5H[HYHQHU
4H[[*YVZRL`
3PHT9VZL
,K^PU.VUaHSLa
(WYPSSL4\ZJHYH
5LKH:HSHTH[
1LUUH)YVNHU
4H[[OL^7LJV[
(YPLSSL:HSSHP
:TY\[P(YH]PUK
2LSZL`4HYY\QV
,YPR1LWZLU
1VOU/HUHJLR
,TPS`2\
*OYPZ[PUH(\ZOHUH
7OPSPW9OPL
:HYP;OH`LY
4HYPH:VRVSV]Editor in Chief
Managing Editors
News EditorsAssociate News Editors
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports EditorAssociate Sports Editors
Focus EditorAssociate Focus Editors
Hiatus EditorAssociate Hiatus Editors
Copy Editors 
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design EditorArt Editors
Web Editor
Training and Development
Business Assistant
;PMMHU`/HU
Advertising Design and Layout 
)YHUKVU*O\,]HU*VVR2PT*VVWLY
Distributors
:HS.HSSHNVZ:JV[[/H]YPZPR
<*:+.<(9+0(569.;OL<*:+.\HYKPHU
 .PSTHU+YP]L
3H1VSSH*(  Copy Readers
(T`.\aKHY4VUPJH/HPKLY1VUH[OHU2PT
4HYPH:VRVSV]5HVTP:^LV(UP[H=LYNPZ
Web Designers
1HRL:JOULPKLY1LUU`;>HUNEditorial Assistants
*VUUPL8PHUAVL:VWOVZ
Camp  
Counselors 
Needed!  
Have a question, call us:  (858) 842-4900  
 Go online:  www.outpostsummercamps.com Outpost Summer Camps is a summer day camp located in 
Rancho Peñasquitos serving children from ages 3 to 14 
years old!     We are looking for college students who are responsible and  adventurous with a lot of enthusiasm for  making camp fun! Apply
 online  today! 
Come Join the Adventure! 
SUNNY-SIDE UP By Philip Rhie
TWO COKES SHORT By Sam Pelle
1VOZMLQMV\QV+WKWV]\[*ZMI[\5QTS<ZMI\[)KVM
By Connie Qian
Senior Staff Writer
Y ou can finally can your ProActiv 
subscription: Bioengineering graduate 
student Dissaya Pornpattananangkul is developing a new acne treatment that utilizes the compounds derived from coconut and human breast milk, but lacks the usual side affects associated with current acne drugs.
Pornpattananangkul, who works in 
the Nanomaterials and Nanomedicine Laboratory, said she is experimenting with a “smart delivery system” that could treat acne by directly delivering potent molecules of lauric acid — a compound proven to stop the bacteri-um that causes the skin problem — to the site of irritation. 
“Our main goal is to prepare 
nanoparticles with lauric acid in order to kill bacteria that cause acne vul-garis, ” Pornpattananangkul said.
The “smart delivery system” is 
made up of liposomes — microscopic sacs that act as carriers —filled with lauric acid. The liposomes are attached to gold nanoparticles, which help locate acne on human skin based on characteristics of the skin such as pH. This way, lauric acid can be applied directly to the source. 
“The delivery system will allow 
us to deliver several molecules of the drug to acne at the same time, ” Pornpattananangkul said. “That will cause an even more effective way to kill bacteria. ” 
Approximately 85 percent of teen-
agers and over 40 million people in the United States are affected by acne. The lack of side effects of many drugs now available such a benzoyl peroxide include crusting and blistering. 
These side effects are drasti-
cally reduced when lauric acid is applied. Since the compound is a natural product found in both coconut oil and human breast milk, Pornpattananangkul says it offers a safe alternative to the commercialized acne treatments currently available and is less likely to irritate the skin while killing off the bacterium causing inflammatory acne.
The project began when 
Pornpattananangkul, nanoengineering professor Liangfang Zhang and gradu-ate student Sage Olson teamed up with a group of researchers from the divi-sion of dermatology.
“We discovered that lauric acid had 
the ability to kill bacteria effectively, ” Pornpattananangkul said. “Once we knew that this worked, we wanted to improve it even more by improving the delivery system. ”
Although the project has been 
in progress for almost two years, Pornpattananangkul said that there is no finalized ending date.
“We do not plan to ‘get it done’ 
because we plan to improve it as much as we can, ” Pornpattananangkul said. “For example, first we get to prepare one nanoparticle. After that one is done, we do another nanoparticle that releases the drug inside the lesion only, but not outside. There are a lot of ways we can improve our system. ”
Though the group is currently 
focusing its research on lauric acid, they are also exploring other fatty acids that could potentially fight acne. 
“We are also interested in combi-
nation therapy [where we] combine our drugs and other drugs in the market to one nanoparticle to reduce the toxicity of those market drugs, ” Pornpattananangkul said.
Readers can contact Connie Qian at 
coqian@ucsd.edu. :*0,5*,AND;,*/5636.@
REBEKAH  HWANG /GUARDIAN
NEWS THURSDAY , MAY 6, 2010  THE UCSD GUARDIAN 3 
“They couldn’t agree that inter-
nationally recognized, document-
ed human rights violations have occurred, ” Barakat said. “They tried to play it off as opinion. They have accused these organizations  — United Nations, Amnesty International — of bias, and they have made it clear that they don’t believe in unconditional human rights. ” 
TFI member Lior Abramson said 
the issue is unrelated to whether a cer-tain group recognizes Israel’s actions as human rights violations. 
“I think the wording of the resolu-
tion implied that if you weren’t for it, you didn’t support human rights, and that’s not true at all, ” Abramson said. “I support human rights, I don’t know anyone who doesn’t, but we can-not support divestment from a com-pany that supports the Israeli Defense Forces, which are what keeps our friends and family safe back home. ” 
She added that TFI has not yet 
taken an official stance on whether “occupancy” is an accurate word to describe Israel’s actions in the Palestinian territories.  
“The committee didn’t work 
because our goals were mutually exclu-sive, ” Abramson said. “ As a gesture, since no student fees directly go toward investment in Israel, it is anti-Israel — and we are a pro-Israel community. ” 
SJP member Chris Westling said 
that multiple students in the TFI com-munity have expressed support for the resolution. 
“There are at least 15 campus orgs 
that support our cause, and a very small number of one — one that’s fragmented anyway, and one in which many members support our resolution —  which is essentially exercising veto power, ” he said.
TFI member Daniel Friedman and 
Abramson disagreed with Westling’s claim. 
“ As with all good Jewish communi-
ties, there’s a lot of opinions and a lot of things going on, ” Friedman said. “But at the end of the day, when we sit down and discussed it, everyone came to the same consensus. On the TFI executive board, there were different opinions voiced, but it’s a democratic thing. We voted, and what came out of the vote is what was represtend by the elected officials at committee. ”
Abramson said that, though there 
may be individual disagreements with-in TFI, the group itself remains united.  
“We are 100 percent unified on 
this issue, ” she said. “Of course, people have individual opinions, but we have 
Finance and Resources-elect Andrew Ang, along with Mania Magazine Editor in Chief Rose Eveleth.
Quarterly publications will now be 
limited to a hard $4,000 per quarter, and annual publications will be eli-gible to receive a maximum of $6,000 per year. However, cheaper publica-tions will be required to stay within 10 percent of the quarterly average of their 2009-10 allocations, unless special circumstances arise — such as an increase in pages per issue, or more frequent distribution dates. The new guidelines state that funding requests exceeding the 10-percent margin must be defended by three quotes from competing printer companies. 
Ang said the revisions are in 
response to over-allocations that occurred under the council’s previ-ous system. In the beginning of the year, the council set aside $45,000 for media-org funding, but subsequently overallocated by over $20,000. 
“The original system wasn’t really 
a cap — just suggestions that people could choose not to follow, ” Ang said. “This has concrete numbers on how much money each organization gets per quarter. ” 
Ang said the new limits are based 
on operating costs reported by the organizations over the last several years.
“We looked at the allocations over 
the past few years — both for publi-cations that published quarterly and publications that published annually — and saw that the allocations per quarter per org ranged from $3,000 to $5,000 dollars for quarterly, and $6,000 to $9,000 for yearly publica-tions, ” Ang said. “So that’s how we came up with those cap numbers. ”
Under the new guidelines, quar-
terly publications will receive $12,000 a year, but yearly publications will only be able to receive $6,000. Ang said this was because yearly publications typi-cally only print a few more pages than quarterly publications. 
“Y early publications don’t print the 
equivalent of all the quarterly publica-tions once a year, ” he said. “They print once, with less content, but typically higher quality. ”
Eveleth said the new guidelines 
emphasize fiscal responsibility by requiring all organizations to pres-ent three price quotes, ensuring they receiving a fair price.
“We took out production dead-
lines, partially because they’re some-what arbitrary, and every publication is different in that no publication pub-lishes on the same schedule — and sometimes things fall through, and if you can’t publish on schedule, you 
Wishyour...
a Happy
Day!Wish your 
“mom” ahappy daywith a photo!
Wear your
UCSD shirt, bring flowers, make a sign,and smilepretty! 
Photos taken11am-2pm, May 5 & 6 outside The Loft, Price Center East. 
All photoswill be posted online and available for viewing beginning Friday, May 7.
Sponsored byThis year’s outgoing A.S. coun-
cilmembers celebrated their last council meeting last night, 
tying all loose ends left over from ear-lier in the year. 
For the second time in two weeks, 
a large public audience showed up at the meeting. To avoid crowding, the discussion was relocated to the Price Center East Ballroom.
For its first 
order of business, the council argued over whether it should allow con-stituents — who came to address council over the controversial divestment resolution — to speak during a public-input period. The line for the podium was long, and councilmembers who agreed that last week’s discussion was unproduc-tive — namely, AVP Academic Affairs Jordan Taylor  — argued that an 
unmoderated conversation wouldn’t go anywhere.
The council passed a motion to 
listen to every person in line, but after an hour and a half, it seemed that both Israel supporters and Students for Justice in Palestine representatives remained divided over the issue.
Senior Adam Teitelbaum  pleaded 
for more cooperation between the two groups. 
“I want to talk about improving 
the lives of all global citizens, ” he said. “I am pro-Israel, I am also pro-Palestine, and I am pro-peace. Let’s open up the lines of communication — there is suffering on both sides. ”
During her member report, 
President-elect Wafa Ben Hassine 
expressed discontent with the coun-cil’s deliberation over whether to accommodate all members of the public wishing to comment on the divestment resolution. “If the public makes an effort to 
come out to meetings, then I’m will-ing to stay here all night to listen to them, ” Ben Hassine said. 
She might be the only one.Members of the Da Real Punjabiz 
dance group asked council to give them $6,000 for traveling expenses to a May 8 competition.
Sound familiar? A few weeks 
back, the UCSD ZOR dance team asked for a similar amount for travel, and was acqui-esced.
Vice President 
of Finance and 
Resources Peter Benesch scolded the 
council for setting an irresponsible fiscal precedent. 
“Bad financial decisions costs you 
tens of thousands of dollars, but does get you reelected, ” Benesch said. 
The vote to fund the dance team’s 
latest travels passed 16-7-5.
Vice President of External Affairs 
Gracelynne West  gave a number-
heavy presentation on the 2010-11 UC Student Association budget. The proposal included adding a full-time media and communications direc-tor to staff and opening an office in Southern California..
In a rather lighthearted presenta-
tion, Advocate General Parminder Sandhu  described the attendance of 
associate vice presidents in one word: atrocious. He submitted 11 impeach-ments this year, two of which were passed by the council.
Councilmembers also voted to 
establish a stipend for senators. Those in the position next year will receive $10 per week.
Campuswide senator Tobias  
Haglund presented his A.S. Store 
budget to council, and — after much debate — the council passed it.;MVI\WZ[>W\M[\W)XXZW^M
8IaNWZ;]KKM[[WZ[
New
KELSEY WONG
klw009@ucsd.edu
Business<ZQ\WV[NWZ1[ZIMT"4IVO]IOMWN);:M[WT]\QWV1[,MKMX\Q^M
▶ RESOLUTION, from page 1
;\]LMV\8]JTQKI\QWV[6W_:MY]QZML\W8ZW^QLM8ZQV\MZ9]W\M[
▶ MEDIA FUNDS, from page 1
See CHANGES page 6See RESOLUTION page 64 THE UCSD GUARDIAN WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG/OPINION THURSDAY , MAY 6, 2010
7816176
+76<)+<<0--,1<7:" opinion@ucsdguardian.orgProps to Pepsi for distributing 3,000 reverse vending 
machines, which allow conusmers to recycle cans and bottles in exchange for prizes and donations to charity.
Flops to Justin Bieber for claiming not to know the 
meaning of “German” in an interview with a New Zealand 
talk-show host. “We don’t say that in America,” he said. “OUT OF CONTEXT
Essentially, our border 
leaks like a team with a 
last-place defense.”
JAN BREWER
GOVERNOR, ARIZONA
)?PWTM
6M_*ZMMLWN-^QT"\PM8TI[\QK*IO
I have too much stuff.
I have two calendars on my  
wall, 31 pairs of underwear in my 
closet drawer and 11 scarves hanging 
on my three overworked wall hooks. Between my closet, my purse and my car, I have taken on the personal task of storing about 40 old Guardian 
issues. A giant bag containing every piece of schoolwork I’ve ever com-pleted in college sits in my hallway 
closet. I own approximately 26 pairs 
of shoes. 
I wouldn’t call myself a 
“Hoarders” hotshot, but that’s still a shit-ton of stuff. I’m really not sure how I accumulated it all, but here’s my guess:
Over time, humans have evolved 
to rely less on their bodies and more on their brains. As a result, we’ve accumulated a set of life accesso-ries, which we must have with us at all times. At the dawn of mankind, these possessions were fur pelts and sharpened rocks; today, they take the form of smart phones, credit cards and bags — thousands and thousands of bags.
Plastic bags, in particular, are 
perhaps the most omnipresent thing in the modern household — the con-tainer/vehicle of all fringe doodads. In my immediate line of vision, I can currently see two: The first is of the Geisel, book-toting species and the second a thin-skinned CVSer wrapped around my trash can. 
But I know there are more. As 
the cockroach of the modern liv-ing space, the plastic bag nudges its way into a home’s every crevice and almost immediately multiplies. When I brush my teeth tonight, they will stare at me from the bathroom cupboard. When I make break-fast tomorrow morning, they will threaten to spill from a basket near the microwave. Wherever I am, there they are.
Y ou can hide or discard the thin 
waxy demons, but you can never kill them altogether: Plastic bags take up to 1,000 years to decompose in a landfill. The receptacles I toted my groceries home in last Thursday will outlive me. They will outlive my children. They will outlive my grand-children.
And, in a country whose citizens 
use about 50 to 80 billion plastic shopping bags a year, it’s no surprise I can’t escape them. With such power in numbers, they need a place to go. For a long time, they seemed only to settle for highway gutters and land-fills — but recently, they’ve recently been sighted blizzarding through the streets of China, floating north of the Arctic Circle and conferencing with other waste in a garbage patch way 
out in the North Pacific.
While their ubiquity is by no 
means welcome, I have little idea 
how we could possibly fight a move-ment this gigantic. There are only a few select California communities — San Diego not included — that have exiled plastic bags altogether. As an individual, I am especially weak in 
ZACHARY  WATSON /GUARDIANALYSSA BEREZNAK
aberezna @ucsd.edu
The Semi-
    ConsciousConsumer:IKM\W\PM<WX
In response to budget cuts, the university may institutionalize 
the most ambitious of  collegiate feats: the three-year degree. But the option would inevitably cheapen all of  our degrees. 
Many of us here at the 
University of California tend to regard our-
selves as pretty damn intelligent. We openly flaunt the difficulty of our course loads, complain loudly about any sub-par grade we hap-pen to receive (read: ‘B+’) and brag with enthusiasm about the number of hours we’ve gone with-out sleeping during finals week.
But even the most self-
involved of overachievers are downright impressed upon learning that a peer intends to graduate in three years. It’s a sign of superior organizational abili-ties, exceptional work ethic and, in many cases, a distinct lack of social skills. 
No matter how many college 
alcohol parties one has to skip to get that diploma early, the hard work is paying off in a big way — in the form of a whole year of tuition. And while a select few students have been independently pursuing the three-year option for as long as there have been universities to graduate from, the fringe benefits that would come from instituting this ambitious pathway are just now registering on the university’s radar. A group of administrators tasked with solving the pressing UC financial problems recently recommended that the three-year squeeze be adopted as an official academic program — a move designed to free up space for incoming fresh-men while launching college graduates into the workforce at a faster rate. 
It sounds like a decent enough 
prospect: Take an existing option, institutionalize it, give it a fancy name (something like “UC in Three!”) and shuttle students through the system at breakneck speed. 
Unfortunately, it’s not that 
simple. In order to ensure that students on this official three-year path graduate on time, they’ d be offered priority course enrollment status, thereby placing regular four-year students at a disadvan-tage once WebReg season rolls around. And what if you sign for the three-year plan, lose steam and drop out? Then you got all that priority privilege without earning it.
What’s more, the program would likely also require par-ticipants to enroll in  summer courses each year — a condition that basically eliminates the whole “save money by graduating early” thing. Sure, summer school is cheaper, but not by a lot. 
The recommendations for the 
program also suggest that these summer courses be taught by non-tenured faculty and teaching assistants. Translation: lower-quality instruction for nearly the same price you’ d be paying during the regular school year. Though it’s not unheard of for TAs to take on more than they should, insti-tutionalizing cheap labor to such an extreme degree would come at a significant life cost to those enrolled in the classes.
As we mentioned, the pro-
gram would have its benefits to the university: more room to enroll new students, lower instructional costs and the “streamlining” of a few general-education courses (sketch). Take note: the most significant benefits of this program are benefits to the university, not to students. Applicants admitted to the three-year fast track would be getting an inherently hastier education, meanwhile cheapening the UCSD degree for all of us.
And the university knows it. 
As if to confirm our greatest res-ervations about the plan, the UC Commission on the Future’s list of recommendations mentions a few of the negative impacts the program would have on its par-ticipants, including “less time to develop interpersonal skills” and “fewer options available within the curriculum due to scheduling restrictions. ” Meaning they’ll be even less equipped with liberal-arts well-roundedness than they already are, and they won’t likely be able to change their major once they’ve shaken on the deal.
No doubt about it: Desperate 
times call for desperate mea-sures, and the three-year plan would be a no-cost way for the UC to become more accessible to California students. Any way you look at it, though, the plan will translate to a lower-quality education. And once we’ve set that precedent, UC history will tell we’re unlikely to restore what was lost.
:PTVUL>PSZVU
EDITOR IN CHIEF
(S`ZZH)LYLaUHR
9LaH-HYHaTHUK
MANAGING EDITORS
/H`SL`)PZJLNSPH4HY[PU
(UNLSH*OLU
NEWS EDITORS
;YL]VY*V_
OPINION EDITOR,+0;690(3)6(9+
The UCSD Guardian  is published twice a week at 
the University of California at San Diego. Contents © 
2010. Views expressed herein represent the majority 
vote of the editorial board and are not necessarily 
those of the UC Board of Regents, the ASUCSD or 
the members of the Guardian  staff. 
See CONSUMER page 5-,1<7:1)4
dd  
..
OPINION THURSDAY , MAY 6, 2010  THE UCSD GUARDIAN 5 
DRAWING FIRE By Johan DeLaTorre
Lock Your Doors: The Big, Bad Bag Is After Your Family  
Dear Editor,
In the past year, you have probably 
created about 1,700 pounds of trash. 
So did everyone you know and every-one they know. 
However, there is one man who 
decided to reduce that number to zero: Colin Beavan, also known as No Impact Man, made it his project to reduce his impact on the environment to nothing. His is an extreme effort, but Beavan demonstrates the courage and initiative that we should all take.
After seeing the documentary 
produced by Beavan, also titled “No Impact Man, ” my house — H-House, in Muir College — was inspired to see what changes we can make in our lives to reduce our impact on our planet.
 I am writing to encourage all of 
you to take part in this challenge with us. For the next week, my housemates and I will give up eating meat, using the elevator, driving, creating trash  
and wasting water. 
Although some of these actions 
may be difficult, the point is not to go cold turkey. Rather, we are trying to find out which eco-friendly behaviors we can accommodate in our lives. 
I urge you to take a refreshed 
look at the way you live by trying this experiment with us. We owe it to our community to take this first step on the way to living in an eco-friendly and sustainable way.
—Monica Datta
Freshman, Muir College
Dear Editor,
In her April 26 article entitled 
“Unequal Pay for Equal Labor, ” Kelsey Marrujo applauds the govern-ment for “standing up for” the stu-dent against internship exploitation. Marrujo applies dubious arguments in support of further labor regula-tions, including appealing to emo-tion by pointing at the rise in tuition costs. 
While I admit that a paid wage 
is far more lucrative than an unpaid internship, regulation does more harm than good. The decision to accept an internship is voluntary. As such,  the student enters the contract 
aware of the conditions. Contracts can be broken if such an action behooves the student. Any claims that internships represent a form of exploitation are clearly nonsensical.
 Regulating internships will hurt 
the student because it will inevitably decrease the availability of intern-ships. Businesses will no longer offer positions if they are coerced into paying their interns, and, as a result, they will deny students valuable work experience. This means that the few fortunate enough to have interned will have advantage over those that did not, thanks to state regulation.
Before jumping the gun and 
berating employers for exploiting students, let’s remember that all internships are voluntary in nature. It follows that unpaid internships are indeed advantageous to the student.
—Jonathan Finegold Catalán
Resident, San Diego
LETTERS  TO THE  EDITOR
Students Should Reduce 
Environmental Impact
the ways of responsible consump-
tion: My reusable, eco-friendly bag lays dusty and neglected beneath a pile of (you guessed it) plastic bags, and I often forget to request that my purchases be sacked in paper. 
But even if I did, how many 
more people would need to do the same for the plastic shopping bag to go extinct? How can we elimi-nate a species we so enthusiastically created when our reliance on its ephemeral function is still so instru-mental? How, in the first place, did we develop such a flimsy, disposable item with such incredibly resilient materials? Why do sea turtles mis-take them as food? Is a sea turtle’s eyesight really that bad?
I don’t want to get all conspiracy-
theory on you here, but I think they might be after us. Y ou probably all think the manmade invention that’s going to enslave us is the computer, but I’ve got news for you: Computers can’t fly like ninjas . Plastic 
bags can. And they will. Once they’ve decided there’s not enough room on the planet for both of our species — and that time will come sooner than you think — they will storm our civili-zation like they did that one street 
in “ American Beauty. ” But instead of looking whimsical, they will suffocate your young. 
So, be wary of those 
innocent-looking sleep-ers peeking from your kitchen drawer. Poke holes in them to hin-der their gift of flight, and/or recycle them at Whole Foods while we wait for the immi-nent showdown. In the meantime, you know 
what to do next time the store clerk asks, “Paper or plastic?”
▶ CONSUMER, MYVTWHNL
Regulating Internships 
Only Limits OpportunityThey will storm 
our civilization like they did that one street in “American Beauty.” But instead of looking whimsical, they will suffocate your young.
▶ The Guardian  welcomes letters from its readers. 
All letters must be no longer than 500 words, 
typed, double-spaced and signed with a name and applicable title. Letters must also contain a phone number. We reserve the right to edit for length and clarity. Letters may be dropped off at the Guardian  
office on the second floor of the Student Center or e-mailed. Send all letters to:
The UCSD Guardian
Opinion Editor
9500 Gilman Dr. 0316
La Jolla, CA 92093-0316 
e-mail: opinion@ucsdguardian.org6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN  THURSDAY , MAY 6, 2010  NEWS
YOU SHAPE-UP YOUR BODY ...
Buffing Up Some of San Diego's Best Bodies!WE’LL SHAPE-UP
      YOUR AUTO!!!
Your Neighborhood
Hand Car Wash
Specialists
r.JMJUBSZ%JTDPVOUPí
r4FOJPS%JTDPVOUPí
r6$4%4UVEFOU%JTDPVOUPí
r.JOJ%FUBJM 
(SFHVMBSMZUIJTJODMVEFTUIFEFMVYFXBTIXJUIBXBY 
STUDENT SPECIALS
(YHU\WKLQJLV+$1':$6+('$OO7\SHVRI'HWDLOV
3XUFKDVHZDVKHVJHWWKHWK)5((
0RWRU+RPHV59V0RWRUF\OHV	%RDWV
0QFO%"*-:BUBNr3PTFDSBOT4U
	

Planned Parenthood
Mission Bay Parker Center4501 Mission Bay Drive, #1C&DSan Diego, CA 92109
N
E W
SI-5La Jolla Village Dr.UCSD
Garnet Ave.
Think you missed the boat on the
HPV vaccine?
Think Again
If you didn’t get the Gardasil vaccine as part 
of your childhood immunizations, it’s not too 
late. Planned Parenthood now offers free or 
low-cost Gardasil for women who want to 
significantly reduce their risk of getting 
HPV, the leading cause of cervical cancer.
To make an appointment, 
call 1-888-743-7526 (PLAN)
or visit planned.org. 
Se Habla EspañolThe report also states that if a UC 
student graduated even one quarter 
earlier, he or she could save an esti-mated $8,895 — though this figure does not account for the cost of the additional summer courses a student would be required to take as part of the three-year program.
The three-year degree program, 
though still in its planning stages, would require participants to enroll in mandatory summer school, “stream-line” their major and general-educa-tion requirements and choose a major before attending a campus. 
“What you can do is you can ask 
that programs look at their require-ments and see if there’s a way that they can maintain the quality of their degree in a way that can compress that into three years, including summer offerings, ” Bruce Schumm, a mem-ber of the Education and Curriculum Working Group for the UCCF, said.
The university would guaran-
tee three-year participants early class selection and course availabil-ity. Some general-education require-ments might also be waived in order to ensure that all  classes could be completed within three years.
“For people who have the capabil-
ity and interest in finishing in three years, the vectors for doing so are not in place, and so the idea was to look into the possibility of offering … certain degree areas more amenable to that, ” Schumm said. 
Although the three-year degree 
would be available at all UC campuses if implemented, each campus would be able to regulate certain components of the program independently, such as which majors would be offered on the faster track and how much flexibility would exist in class selection. 
“The UCOP would direct the cam-
puses, but either way it’s implemented, it will certainly be implemented at the campus level, ” Schumm said. “So we might decide to implement something here in a slightly different way than, say, Berkeley or Irvine might. ”
However, Schumm added that the 
effort required from departments to create a “streamlined” major may ulti-mately cost too much to be practi-cal, especially since the university will bring in no profits from this program, according to the UCCF report. 
“In the end, it may be more 
effort than it’s worth, ” Schumm said. “There’s no guarantee that you achieve these efficiencies or improvements in quality. ”
There is also no guarantee that stu-
dents will be interested in such a plan. According to an academic counselor at Warren College who wished to remain anonymous, most students who wish to graduate in three years instead choose to pursue a double major.
“There are pros and cons to gradu-
ating in three years, ” he said. “It’s beneficial to students who are ready. Some students need more develop-ment. Four years is important for self-exploration — if you shortcut that, you may have to catch up later, which may be harder to do. ”
In 2002, only 2.5 percent of all UC 
undergraduates graduated in three years or less, compared with the 53.3 percent who graduated in four years, and the 22.6 percent who graduated in five years. An additional 3.9 percent of students took six years to graduate.
“For freshmen — or students 
that come in as freshmen — there’s very, very few who ever graduate in three years, ” a representative from the UCSD Office of Student Research and Information said, who also wished to remain anonymous. “The last time I think we actually published it was back in 1996; for years and years, the num-ber was 1 percent, or less than 1 per-cent, so we just stopped publishing it. ”
Additional reporting by Ayelet 
Bitton.
Readers can contact Elena Chang at 
eachang@ucsd.edu.▶ TRACK, from page 1)KKMTMZI\ML,MOZMM?W]TL?IQ^M/-[
get a hard time, ” Eveleth said. “I think that most media orgs are in favor of it. I personally talked to a few media organizations, and they said they read it and were happy with it. ”
A.S. President Utsav Gupta said 
he thought the cap was set too high. 
“It might not seem like a lot of 
money individually, but $4,000 under our overall count is only enough to fund five media organizations a quarter, and if you want to fund all of these with this cap, that could be $60,000, ” Gupta said. “I know it might not seem popular, but we have limited sets of resources and we can’t allocate like that — which is why I would ask for additional reflection on the cap. ”
Eveleth said the number was 
meant as an extreme, not the aver-age amount of money allocated. She stressed that the data came from fig-ures previously collected by the A.S. Council. 
“The $4,000 number comes from 
the actual data in the past, ” Eveleth said. “If we set the cap any lower, we would be hurting the major newspa-pers on campus. ”
The new guidelines also allow student media orgs to request fund-ing for one additional issue during a quarter they did not originally request money for — though the request may not exceed $3,000. Powers said this allows for emergency issues to be released under last-minute cir-cumstances, such as Winter Quarter’s Black Student Union crisis. 
According to Ang, there may be 
exceptions made if organizations wish to request more money. Either the AVP of Student Orgs or Vice President of Finance and Resources —  the position Ang will take next week —  would be able to allocate more money as needed. However, Ang said he would recommend that the cap not be broken. 
“The AVP and VP can extend 
beyond these rules, but it has to be a specific circumstance, ” Ang said. “They have to come in and show proof to the SOFAB that you have a 
publisher — show us your budget, your plan, your number of pages — before we’ll allocate more than the cap. ”
Eveleth echoed that more money 
would be handed out only in specific circumstances,.
One example of a publication with 
a high start-up cost is No 15 Magazine, which received nearly $9,000 in stu-dent fees to print 3,000 copies of its first issue. No 15 Magazine Editor in Chief Kevin Nguyen acknowledged that, if his organization had tried to request funding prior to these chang-es in policy, it would have hindered their publication process. 
“We could’ve still had something 
printed out, but it would be a lot harder to get started, ” Nguyen said. “I think it definitely puts a little strain on new publications, because starting up is really tough — especially if you don’t have enough funds for it. ”
However, Nguyen said he is in 
favor of the new funding cap, and supports  the flexibility the new sys-
tem offers to startup publications. 
“There definitely needs to be 
some regulations about that, because people can be requesting so much money here and there, ” he said. “But I think that keeping the startup money — allowing new publications to start up — is a great thing. I think it’s defi-nitely fair what they did. ”
Additional reporting by Regina Ip.
Readers can contact Angela Chen at  
shchen@ucsd.edu▶ CHANGES, from page 3=VLMZ6M_:]TM[5MLQI7ZO[+IV;\QTT:MY]M[\5WZM+I[P
a board that decides for the group, and if anyone was angered by our decision, they would have left and not been in our group. ” 
A.S. Associate Vice President of 
Enterprise Operations and SJP mem-ber Rishi Ghosh said he wishes to see the council continue pursuing the issue.
“My idea toward the council is that 
you can run but you can’t hide, ” he said. “Good things have happened, and I’m excited to further work with the pro-Israel community, but I’m confi-dent that people will continue to work for this. ”
Friedman said the indefinite 
tabling of the resolution is a welcome end to the debate.
“It’s not the ideal thing, but it’s what 
[the committee] decided, ” Friedman said. “Hopefully now the communi-ties will start working together to have conversation about the topic and bring them together. ”
Ghosh said it is possible that a 
similar resolution will be proposed to the 2010-11 council, which takes office next week.
“It might have more success next 
year with a new council, if those new senators are willing to read the legisla-tion and not just listen to the rhetoric surrounding it, ” Ghosh said.
Abramson said that TFI will con-
tinue to oppose the divestment resolu-tion if it is reintroduced next year.
“If this resolution comes up next 
year, TFI will keep coming out and speaking out against it, ” Abramson said.  
Readers can contact Angela Chen at 
shchen@ucsd.edu.▶ CHANGES, from page 3+W]VKQTUMUJMZ"1[ZIMT8ITM[\QVM,Q[K][[QWV;PW]TLV¼\-VL0MZMexit strategy druthers 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS HIATUS PICKS THE WEEK’S BEST BETS
Like her brothers-in-funk Kool & the Gang, Lady Dottie pumps 
enough party-time prowess into her soulful wail to make you get up and celebrate the day you were born. The rest of the (much younger) Diamonds make the backup positively electric with raucous Gen. Y swagger: The guitars on tracks like “I Ain’t Mad at Ya” are layered like a Jack White snarl under Dottie’s warm wail. (MP)LADY DOTTIE AND THE DIAMONDS
U-31
MAY 10, 10 P .M. / 21+“LA AMERICANA”
THE LOFT
MAY 6, 8 P .M.
PAY AS YOU CAN
PRE-SUN GOD
BEAR GARDEN
MATTHEWS QUAD
MAY 7, 3 P .M.
FREECHARLIE HUNTER
THE LOFT
MAY 7, 8 P .M.
$12
CATE LE BON
THE LOFT
MAY 8, 8:30 P .M.
$6KIKI SPAULDING
ESPRESSO ROMA
MAY 10, 8 P ..M
FREE
VV BROWN 
THE LOFT
MAY 10, 8:30 P .M.PAY AS YOU CANANTILLES
CHE CAFE
MAY 12, 7:30 P .M.$6
MANIA MAGAZINE 
LAUNCH PARTY
THE LOFT
MAY 12, 9 P .M.
PAY AS YOU CANTHURSDAY , MAY 21, 2010 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG/HIATUS
;/,),:;:65.:
05/0(;<:;/0:>,,2boss ditties
CONTACT  THE EDITOR : hiatus@ucsdguardian.org7 THE UCSD GUARDIAN  
3:30 p.m. is story time at the Cross 
Cultural Center, as Irene Mena talks about her role in the 1970 nonviolent-but-militant takeover of the Chicano Park. FREE.TONIGHTHiATUS)V)¸(PYWSHULZ¹
)V)¸5V[OPU»VU@V\¹
;OL4HJRº5)Pa ¸-\JR*SHZZ¹
)YVRLU:VJPHS:JLUL ¸:LU[PTLU[HS?Z¹
)YVRLU:VJPHS:JLUL ¸:^LL[LZ[2PSS¹
The Final
Bow, WithLasers
PT. 3 
Diamonds be 
damned — an iron-clad Robert 
Downey Jr. makes for a better best friend any day. Once again, Downey suits up as charming asshat Tony Stark — spouting off the token tongue-in-
Iron Man 2
STARRING ROBERT DOWNEY JR., 
SCARLETT JOHANSSON
DIRECTED BY JON FAVREAU
RATED PG-132:04IRONCASTSTAYSCOOL
C
ONTA
 C
T
THE
 E
but-militant takeover o f the Ce CeCCe CeCCe CeCe Ce CCCeCCe CCeeCCe Ce CCCCCCCe CCCCCCCCCCCehichichichichichhihichichichiccichichiccichichicicchichichhcchicicchichichichhhhhhihichhhanoanoanoanoanoananoanoanoanoanoananoananononooanoanoaaanananoanonooaaanaaaaaanoa 
Park. FREE .
FILMREVIEW
See MAN, page 9It seems that, in the time since my 
“Compton Cookout: The Musical” column debuted last quarter, the 
real-live UCSD theater department (pardon, thee-tuhh) may have caught onto my whole “art heals pain” plan. (See “Real Art, Real Pain, ” below. And get a load of that LGBT crochet magic.)
It’s OK; I’m not jealous. This just 
means the final act in my winter-quarter irono-drama needs to blow the fucking roof off Galbraith Hall.
As you probably don’t remember, I 
left the M.A. Fox piñata hanging from the rafters in Act Two — levied by dependable sidekick Penny Rue (that’s vice chancellor of student affairs, to you). They exist in a pool of light on the right third of the stage. One of Rue’s hands is holding the rope, the other an oversized bullhorn — into which she screams, “Done! Done! Done!” , her burgundy centipede mouth rippling in waves of heartsickness.
That’s when a second pool of light 
blinks on, onto the next third of the stage. A group of giggling girls in skirts and berets are skipping there, using a length of green rope (what the hell kind of rope is green?) to play double Dutch. If the berets haven’t tipped you off, these are the vis-arts geniuses who got a little too creative with their scrap pile on the seventh floor on Geisel Library one fateful Tuesday.
Now the second pool of light starts 
blinking, because everyone knows it’s not an art party without a strobe. But the girls soon grow bored, despite the cool slow-mo effects the rope is mak-ing in front of their fickle pupils, and take to the next pool over, where they begin to wind the rope around the Straighter
      ThanNarrow
SIMONE WILSON
siwilson@ucsd.edu
See NARROW, page 9
Be forewarned: This Friday, flash-mob dancers and dudes in bizarre costumes might 
block your daily route to Geisel 
Library. The Arts in Action Fes-
tival is open-air performance 
to make you look — a daylong  
event in which students, alumni 
and faculty will align the fights 
against prejudice toward blacks, 
Latinos, women and homosexu-
als.
Beginning at 2 p.m., theatri-
cal pieces on the history of the 
movements will unfold at various 
locations: the Triton Steps, the 40 Y ears 
Legacy Mural at Peterson Hall, the Women’s Center and the LGBT Center. 
At 3 p.m., participants will move to 
the Silent Tree before marching to the Mandell Weiss Theatre for an interac-tive “Opera of Meaning”  (bring your 
laptop or iPhone) and open forum. Followed, of course, by a dance party at 8 p.m.“ Arts in Action came about because 
a few of us sat down and said, ‘We believe that this campus needs a place for its artists to respond to the racial emergency and events of last quarter, ’” event organizer Heather Ramey said.
At Mandell Weiss Theatre, a stu-
dent mural will be collaged with a live mural created by Chicano artist Mario Torero, while a fence you can play like a harp stands by. Full-body 
knitted masks by Master of Fine Arts 
student Zac Monday (left, right) will be displayed during the gay-rights performance at the LGBT Center. And, just to make sure we don’t doubt the “multi” in this media, the festival will also feature a series of musical, spoken-word and digitally interactive performances, along with live coverage by SmashTV .
“I really hope students will attend 
the event, come with their own ques-tions, keep on working on these ques-tions and keep thinking about the role of art in constructing and decon-structing social identities. ” artistic director Jade Power said.
According to Power, festival 
organizers drew inspiration from UCSD’s history of radical protest art, which included body bags full of bloody animal parts strewn across Library Walk during the Vietnam War.
“The performances are to remind 
students about the power of bodies in action, the links between performance and politics and to highlight the chal-lenges faced and successes achieved via 
protest throughout history, ” Power said. 
Ramey said she realized the 
importance of documenting UCSD’s 
charged past during the sit-in at the Chancellor’s Complex in February.
“The [Black Student Union] 
alumni association came by and said, ‘Y ou know, we were here before you doing this stuff. Y ou weren’t the first,and you’re not 
going to be the last. ’” Ramey said.
;/,),:
;
:
65.:
050505050505050050505050505050050500005055505050500555055050505555050050055555005055505050505555555505500055555//////////////0(
;
(
(
<:;/0:>,,2
dian.org
 
ARTPREVIEW
Real Art, Real Action
                Four Corners of  Campus Get Arty for a Common Cause. By Gretchen Wegrich
blo
Lib
tiv
to
ev
an
ag
Lat
als.
B
cal pie
movem e
locations: 
Legacy M
Women’s 
At 3 p.m. ,
the Silent 
Mandell W
tive “Oper
laptop or 
Followed ,
at 8 p.m.
AARRTT
PPRREEVVIIEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWW
                               Four
See
See
NA
NA
RROW,
RROW,  
page 9
page  9
ss 
War.
nd
in
nce
al
-
d via
said. 
’s  
e
h
h
8THE UCSD GUARDIAN  THURSDAY , MAY 6, 2010  HIATUS
The Sun God Festival is UCSD's biggest student party of 
the year, with a carnival, games, special vendors, food, an evening concert and much more! Our special Sun God section tells the story and history.
Advertise and get your message out to 30,000 readers.
Our biggest readership of the year.Th.5/1 3
05.14.10UCSD Reads the
Sun God Issue.
Call 858-534-3467
Ad Deadline is Monday, May 10With a soft tempo and 
sincere sensitivity, Canadian super-group 
Broken Social Scene’s fittingly named Forgiveness Rock 
Record becomes the optimal 
soundtrack for a moody onset evening. Dramatic song titles, unassuming sonic textures and open-heart sentiments scream formu-laic breakup album, but the care with which understated vocals are laid over the new-age folk beat — devoid of the whine so common in choked-up emotional en-deavors — creates a cohesive whole that’s more genuine feeling than forced connec-tion.
Album opener “World 
Sick” begins with a single guitar string, plucked and plucked again, an acid tear-drop on the band’s history of soul-consuming shoegaze. But then they arrive: the drums, followed by syn-thesizers, all building to a charged chorus of electric guitar with an explosion of cymbals behind it. Despite the natural disaster in the background, lyrics are never tempted away from straight-forward — even when addressing the complications of chronic lovesickness. By omitting the show of lyri-cal selfishness so common in breakup ballads, “World Sick” instead lets a talented group of players become the internal earthquake behind a frail, hurting human voice.
But they also know 
when to break the trend. A persistent buzzing kicks off album highlight “Sweetest Kill, ” soon joined by a two-note bass track that sends itself rollicking. The bal-ance is reversed: This time, background noise is sparse, while the vocals warble and echo, drawing out the last disillusioned note of a failed relationship. 
“Water In Hell” similarly 
tips the balance the band has so carefully cultivated — but doesn’t betray the heartsick theme — by launching into a state of denial. It begins with a twangy, country intro completely devoid of TLC. Nasally vocals are overwrought, senseless inanities (“From what I can tell/ There’s water in hell”) shouted onto a numbing backdrop.
In a much kinder man-
ner, the rest of Forgiveness 
proves that Broken Social Scene can be the introspec-tive therapists we need in a rough patch — and some-how, we still feel cool.
— Angela Chen
senior staff writer
B.o.B.
The Adventures of Bobby Ray
ATLANTIC RECORDS
Bo.B. may have hit his claim to fame stringing together niceties about a gal who pays 
her taxes and keeps a gangster’s eye from wandering, but instead of filling debut The Adventures 
of Bobby Ray with likeminded 
good-guy tracks, newcomer Bobby Ray Simmons pulls a 180 with a genre-straddling album that packs more juice than we ever would have imagined.
B.o.B’s devotion to home-
hitting topics like hope for fame, success and love won’t have hip-hop’s big dogs rehashing their battle raps to keep up anytime soon, though. When B.o.B busts out his best Kanye impression alongside Jay-Z on the Top 40, it only serves to expose the 21-year-old’s relative inexperience.
It even happens on his own al-
bum. Hitmaker Eminem injects a gold-clinching rage that cripples B.o.B’s comparatively flimsy verse on “ Airplanes, Part II, ” while T.I. ’s rapid-fire cameo guns down the new guy’s self-conscious ego trip on “Bet I. ”Bobby Ray  may play up 
the pauper-to-prince angle to cringeworthy extremes, but the beats on bottom make up for every second. “Don’t Let Me Fall” showcases an appreciation for rock ‘n’ roll, as B.o.B pleads for advice from the screaming cords of an electric guitar.
Throw in a shout-out to indie 
chart-toppers Vampire Weekend on “The Kids” and the beautiful pain of Paramore frontwoman Hayley Williams on “ Airplanes, ” and it’s obvious that the rapper isn’t feeling pressured to find a niche — yet isn’t overrreaching either, a la Lil Wayne’s latest hard-rock endeavor.
While the excitable sense of 
variety is certainly admirable, it does occasionally come across as schizophrenic. But the boy’s got guts — and the game always rewards those willing to lead the pack.
B.o.B. will perform live at the 
Sun God Festival on May 14.
— Neda Salamat
senior staff writerUp-Front Newbie Calls on Rap Gods 7
10
Indie Supergroup Strikes Right Chord ALBUMREVIEWS
6
10Broken Social Scene
Forgiveness Rock Record
ARTS & CRAFTS PRODUCTIONS
The Mack ‘N Biz
Just the Tip
UNSIGNED
If normal-dude jokester Asher Roth had the guts to take himself seriously, 
he might sound something like the Mack ‘N Biz. UCSD’s own nerdcore hip-hop duo is about to release their first full-length mixtape, Just the 
Tip — and while the album 
may be more filler than killer, they do show off the chillaxed type of honesty and slick, popped-collar production that no gimmick group could hope to pull off.
On tracks like “Fuck 
Class, ” Andy Mack and AJ Biz bring a frat-boy swagger to the macho sensibility that has too long been the province of grim-faced gangstas owning the genre. It’s the album’s standout track, full of shou-touts to campus landmarks like Porter’s Pub and that one weird-looking guy who works at the parking office.
The duo struts through 
verses, trampling a sea of tri-umphant synthesizers: “Fuck class, I don’t wanna do that/ I just wanna get high and rap. ” Their direct approach is admirable, and when they pull it off, the complete lack of self-consciousness is a powerful contrast to clowns like Roth.
The stuff about love, 
though, becomes embarrass-ing: “Electric Bitch” brings ghetto misogyny to the suburbs, while “Dreamin’ Bout Y ou” could only be meaningful to a 14-year-old. Their venture into politics fares no better, with “State of the Union” mired in cliche, a whiny tirade against capital-ism and George W . Bush, the easiest asshole to hate on the face of the Earth.
Ironically, their most 
mature songs are about the most immature topics, like the technicalities of getting fucked up. Now that’s a rap we can relate to.
— Bryan Kim
staff writerRhymesters Put Heart in Nerdcore 5
10
WEB EXCLUSIVES  
TRACKREVIEWS
The Game ‘Ain’t No Doubt About It’
Eminem ‘Not Afraid’ALBUMREVIEWS
Two Door Cinema Club Tourist HistoryFlying Lotus Cosmogramma ARTREVIEW
‘Likely Stories and
other sides’HIATUS THURSDAY , MAY 6, 2010  THE UCSD GUARDIAN 9
chancellor like a lopsided Maypole.
(This, of course, makes it difficult 
for whoever is playing Rue. Ever tried 
maintaining a sympathetic centipede mouth with a bullhorn in one hand and a baited fishing line in the other?)
Seeing as the second pool of light 
now goes unmanned — a strobing party one at that — the hairy “ungrate-ful nigger” in the poncho runs back out to centerstage, this time struggling to drag one fat side of a refrigerator box along with him. It’s taller than he is, with “Compton lynching” written on it in Comic Sans — because, of course, that’s the mock-handwriting font of choice for all those still living in the “post-racist” utopia that is a kindergar-ten classroom. (Y ou know, where the only person you’re prejudiced against is the fool who wiped snot on the Lincoln logs? Those were the days.) Poncho man finally lifts the king-sized scrap above his head with a grunt of satisfac-tion, yelling, “If you don’t read I’m-a read it in a couple of seconds!”
This is where we’re going to need 
some ballerinas. They can be shitty ones, though. And all we’ll need to play A.S. President Utsav Gupta is another superstar piñata, silhouetted by a final pool of light on the far left, frozen in pirouette above a circle of chairs. The A.S. councilmembers, scattered around the podium, are wearing gray politician suits five sizes too big, back-alley nego-tiator hats that flop over their eyes and clown-sized dress shoes with ballerina tips. Extra black, for solidarity. They try to find their spots for a few minutes, but — thanks to the hats and square toes — end up a discombobulated swarm of “’scuse me” and “motion to find a chair” and “check your boner off my hipbone” and snaps (to make themselves known). Sort of like Marco Polo, if no one ever knew whose turn it was. Or how to swim. In the deep end.
Y ou’ve been very patient with me. 
Here is your reward: the grand finale. The rectangular snake of protestors returns from Act Two, still dressed all in black but for their orifices. The noose girls — who have been going all S&M on the M.A. Fox piñata — scam-per off, and the angry block systemati-cally begins to pummel the chancellor with a set of matching bats, chanting “We need to know!” at the bits of tis-sue paper that fly from her frail paper-mache skeleton. “Done! Done! Done!” shrieks Rue on the other end of the rope, her caterpillar mouth more of a sin wave on psychedelics by now. 
A small way into the beatdown, 
cash starts pouring from the Fox. (OK, that’s wishful thinking. In reality, all we found in the piñata was a feast of com-mittees. What a shitty party.) That’s when Koala  man gets an idea: He pulls 
a spare keyboard from his poncho and starts putting his best sloshball slugs into the Gupta version. Score! Pennies flow like pain. Peripheral members of the protest mob flood stage left, getting in wherever they fit in.
Only one thing could truly put the 
shit in this storm, and it’s called March Forth. Hundreds of students, loaded in Strike Barbie accessories, rush the stage to shout “Gay!” “Broke!” “Bored!” “ Ahhh!” until it all blends into one causeless roar. The strobe takes over the stage, the tech guy says “Fuck it” and spews his whole stock of lasers on that bitch, and the audience joins in for a game-ending dance party. Because that’s how this thing should go down. See you at Sun God, beautiful people.

-Joshua Rothkopf, TIME OUT N Y
-Elizabeth Weitzman, NY DAILY NEWS
“SUBVERSIVE ,PROVOCATIVE ,UNEXPECTED!
The more you think about this unusual film, 
THE MORE FASCINATING IT BECOMES! ”
-Kenneth Turan, LA TIMES
“GRADE ‘A’!
INCREDIBLY ENTERTAINING! 
BITINGLY HUMOROUS! ”
-Nick Day, CAMPUS CIRCLE
“HILARIOUS!
A GENUINELY HIP , THOUGHT-
PROVOKING WORK OF ART!”
-Aaron Hillis, VILLAGE VOICE
“FUNNY
AS HELL! ”
-Thessaly LaForce, THE NEW YORKER“JOYOUS!
ONE OF THE MOST
INSPIRED, ADROIT, HILARIOUS DEBUT
FEATURES EVER!”
-Amy Taubin, FILM COMMENT(HIGHEST RATING) (HIGHEST RATING)
“YOU ’LL BE LAUGHING HELPLESSL Y! ”-Peter Travers,
ROLLING
STONE“EXHILARATING!
ACIDLY FUNNY. EXPLOSIVELY SUCCINCT. ”
-David Edelstein, NEW YORK MAGAZINE“THE BEST MOVIE
NOW PLAYING!
A MARVELOUS, ONE-OF-A-KIND CONTRAPTION, 
A SPINNING TOP OF A MOVIE.
SO MUCH DAMN FUN .”
-Owen Gleiberman, ENTERTAINMENT WEEKLY
NOW
PLAYINGLANDMARK’S
HILLCREST CINEMAS
3965 5th Avenue, San Diego  619-819-0236 
or www.cafilm.org/rfc/index.html“FIRST-RATE !
‘EXIT...’ IS AN ORIGINAL! ”
-Peter Rainer, CHRISTIAN SCIENCE MONITORA $2450
value
for only
$650! *
into your
career
ENROLL
TODAY!with a UCSD Extension CertificateUNDERGRADUATES
Now accepting
applications
for Spring
quarter!CERTIFICATES:
ͻiotechManufacturing
ͻusiness Analysis
ͻClinical TrialsAdministra Ɵon
ͻFinancial Analysis
ͻParalegal
ͻProjectTeamManagement
ͻQuality Assurance/Control Specialist
ͻRegulatory Aīairs
ͻSustainable usinessPracƟces
ͻTechnical Documenta ƟonExtension courses 
provide practical skills 
taught by instructors who 
currently work in their industry.   
extension.ucsd.edu/launch ͮlaunch@ucsd.edu ͮϴϱϴ.ϴϮϮ .ϭϰϲϬ
LAUNCH is a program offered by UCSD Extension that enables UCSD Undergraduates to obtain a 
Specialized Certificate in one of a variety career fields at a reduced cost to the student.
* excludes Paralegal
    certificate
A $2450
value
for only
$650! *cheekers rampant in the comic-turned-
film’s first installment. 
In “Iron Man 2, ” Stark is caught 
in the middle of a legal clusterfuck, fast-talking his way out of handing the Ironman suit over to a concerned U.S. government working in conjunc-tion with opportunistic sleazeball Justin Hammer (Sam Rockwell). Stark boldly claims that no one could pos-sibly stumble upon similar technology within the decade. How wrong he is.
Just days later,  muscle-bound 
Russian Ivan Vanko (an electrifying Mickey Rourke) whips the superhero around in a suit made with identical technology. The rivalry comes to a head at Stark’s Expo, culminating in a metal-crunching standoff that makes for one hell of a shrapnel show.
It takes a special type of swagger 
to turn iron to gold — and Downey’s performance as the iron-hearted Stark does just that. Charming and snarky, Downey is a winner alongside Paltrow, exchanging high-speed banter and throwing self-indulgent parties at which he gets smashed and dances like a baffoon. Downey plays up Stark’s fallibility, breathing life into a hero so frequently described as godlike.  
Antagonists Rourke and Rockwell 
never fade from view, either. Rourke growls in good Russian — spitting blood, peppered with metal — and Rockwell verbally bombards anyone unfortunate enough to fall into his greasy web of egomania.  Even store-mannequin Scarlett Johansson is surprisingly well -placed, deadpanning throughout as taciturn, bra-flashing badass Natalie Rushman.
Bolstering the cast, director Jon 
Favreau keeps the special-effects team to the grindstone as well, churning out streaming lighting blasts and enough gasoline-packed explosions to power Stark’s Audi. The effects are engaging enough to capture even the girliest of filmgoers, filling the void left by the nauseating plotline of metal-mashing giant “Transformers 2. ” 
But “Iron Man 2” has its sharp 
edges. Favreau makes little effort to forge any new ground in the way of unexpected twists; Vanko’s thirst for vengeance on his family’s behalf is exhaustively expected. Though the flimsy storyline is lacking the kind of weight delivered by “The Dark Knight, ” the film’s colossal effort in all other departments nearly irons out its shortcomings. And for those hanker-ing for more hot iron-on-man action, be on watch for the clip that rolls after closing credits — looks like the next Marvel film is already being ham-mered out.
Gin and Pimp Juice Make Downey a Stock Stud
▶ MAN, MYVTWHNL
Not to Fret: Sun God Can Heal All Unhappy Endings
▶ NARROW, MYVTWHNLGuardian Classifieds are placed online and are FREE for UCSD. Low cost classified placements for our print 
edition are also available to the UCSD campus and the public at   ucsdguardian.campusave.com
Guardian Classifieds are placed online and are FREE for UCSD. Low cost classified placements for our print edition are also available to the UCSD campus and the public at   
ucsdguardian.campusave.com
Level:12 3 4
Level:123 4
Level:1 234
Level:1 2 3 4Level:
12
3 4Level:
12
3 4
Level:
1 2
34Level:
1 2
34
Find the Sudoku solutions in this Monday's Classifieds Page 
Complete the grid so
each row, column and3-by-3 box (in boldborders) containsevery digit, 1 to 9. Forstrategies on how tosolve Sudoku, visitwww.sudoku.org.uk
SOLUTION TO
SATURDAY’S PUZZLELevel:
1 2
3 4
© 2009 The Mepham Group. Distributed by
Tribune Media Services. All rights reserved.9/14/09Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies 
on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.uk
Level:12 3 4
Level:123 4
Level:1 234
Level:1 2 3 4Level:
12
3 4Level:
12
3 4
Level:
1 2
34Level:
1 2
34Level:12 3 4
Level:123 4
Level:1 234
Level:1 2 3 4Level:
12
3 4Level:
12
3 4
Level:
1 2
34Level:
1 2
34
05/03/10 Crossword SolutionCLASSIFIEDS 10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN
reserve a special graduation
announcement in the
GRADUATION
ISSUE 2010
 6.3.10
Visit our site and look for the
and submit your ad &
photo online!INCLUDES PHOTO AND MAXIMUM 100 CHARACTERS5”x 4” AD
FOR ONLY $100.00
 BEN:
WE LOVE
YOU!good
luck in
the real
world!
The FrostensonsCasey,
on your Graduation. We love you 
and wish you the greatest success 
in the world.
Love, Grandpa & GrandmaCongratulationssample without photo* sample with photo*
*NOT ACTUAL SIZE
GRAD AD LINK ON STANDS
www.ucsdguardian.org AD DEADLINE IS 5/21/10 Questions? Call 858.534.3467
Print Classifieds available: $5 for 30 words per issueGUARDIAN
CLASSIFIEDS
FOR UCSD STAFF
& STUDENTSFREEONLINE
ucsdguardian.campusave.com
THURSDAY, MAY 6, 2010
JOBS 
La Jolla town council trustee and board 
member for a non-profit organization needs assistance in home office setting. Must have Mac Computer skills, good writing skills, and be dependable. You will answer emails, run errands, etc. start now and work through summer. Flex hours Please email resume rdyansick@aol.com  (5/10)
Start now at the Riford Center in La Jolla 
which is an adult learning/community cen -
ter. Must be experienced in the following; greet guests and members, answer phones, print out brochures, newsletters, develop new programs, organize files, computer database entry, and e-blasts, some graphic design or creativity is preferred, Microsoft excel experience is a must. This is an excel -
lent opportunity for college graduates or current students. Must have excellent peo -
ple skills, high energy, and enthusiasm. Part time to start now, could turn into full time in June. If interested please respond imme -
diately by emailing resume to Jim Walker at walkerjamesw@gmail.com (5/10)
Summer Day Camp Jobs : San Fernando & 
Conejo Valleys.  Counselors, Lifeguards, And Instructors for Gym, Horses, Arts & Crafts, Music & Much More! $3275-$3500+ /sum-mer 888-784-CAMP www.workatcamp.com (5/13)
L.A. AREA SUMMER DAY CAMPS Swimming, 
horses, sports, arts & crafts, beaches, ropes courses and more. Gain valuable experi -
ence working with children in a variety of fun camp settings. www.daycampjobs.com (5/20)
The Mission Bay Aquatic Center is now hiring 
for the summer!  Experience in sailing, wind -
surfing, surfing, kayaking, rowing, or marine science is recommended.  Will train qualified applicants.  Receptionist and maintenance positions available also.  Call (858) 488-1000 for more information or email kevin.straw@sdsu.edu. (5/20)
Wanted: Overnight research/engineering 
technicians to assist in sleep related studies. BA/BS students in engineering/sciences. Pay: $10-12/hr.  Submit resume to: hr@b-alert.com. More information: http://www.b-alert.com. (5/20)
UCSD BLOOD DONOR ALLERGY STUDY: 
Subjects with current allergy symptoms to inhaled allergens (cat, grass, dust mite), needed as blood donors for research study requiring donation of blood and allergy skin testing. Will be reimbursed $100 for completion of two clinic visit study. Contact Dr. Broide, Department Medicine (858) 534-2033. (5/27) 
SERVICES 
Egg Donors Needed  We are seeking attrac -
tive women of all ethnicities under the age of 29   who are physically fit and maintain a healthy lifestyle. $15,000 plus all expenses.      If you have a desire to help an infertile family please contact us.     Email: darlene@aperfectmatch.com    1-800-264-8828   www.aperfectmatch.com      Perfectly matching donors with families since 1998       (5/6) 
Special Auto Insurance Discount Program 
for Educators and Professors, current or retired. Toll free 1-877-451-4943 or instant online quotes at  http://www.autoagency.com/educators   Ken Donaldson Insurance Agency   CA License 0E05617 (5/27) 
Special Auto Insurance Programs for College 
Students - Call Toll free   1-877-451-4943 or instant online quotes at http://www.autoagency.com/students    Ken Donaldson Insurance Agency CA License 0E05617 (5/27)
STUDENT HOUSING 
2106 for appointment. or email jameslee -propertymanagement@gmail.com Available July 1st (5/3)
9.4 mi â€“ about 19 mins according to 
Google Maps   2 Car Garage, ample parking  Address: 8907 Capricorn Way; San Diego, CA 92126  Feel free to drive by, call James 858-354-2106 for appointment. or email jamesleepropertymanagement@gmail.com Available July (5/6)
Beautiful 6BR/5BA furnished home for rent, 
12 minutes from UCSD with easy access to I-5 and 52 freeways, immaculate interior and exterior, sun room, travertine fireplace, new kitchen appliances, washer/dryer, one story, nice neighborhood, available now.  Furniture can be stored if not needed.   Address:  4706 Leathers St. , San Diego 92117.    Call John Mann at 858-775-5918 or email at  man-njohn1@mac.com  for more information, photos, or to see. (5/27)
Pacific Beach Five to eight bedroom homes 
.  $3450. to  $4950 per month. One year leases. Start July 1, August, September. Upper Division, Grad Students.One person per bedroom.   Not zoned for Fraternity, Sorority, Club, Party houses.    Thanks, 858-274-4017.  (6/3)
3 bedrooms, 1 ½ bath condo, near UTC/UCSD, 
$2100 per month; available September; per -
fect for 3-4 students. Call (858) 205- 9059 or e-mail housing92121@yahoo.com for more info (6/3)
Spacious tri-level, 3 bedrooms, 2.5 bath 
condo with attached 2-car garage; available July, $2450 per month; perfect for 4-5 stu -
dents.  Call (858) 205- 9059 or e-mail hous -
ing92121@yahoo.com for more info (6/3)SPORTS THURSDAY , MAY 6, 2010  THE UCSD GUARDIAN 11 
Jon Klingensmith from Colorado 
Christian.
Going into the final two events of 
the season, Oksaki admitted his per-formance had been sub-par as of late. UCSD’s lead man throughout the sea-son, Okasaki’s final-stretch struggles peaked on the 7,100- yard Classic Club course, where he shot above his season average of 75.1 strokes in all three rounds.    In his third year on the team, Okasaki followed up a stellar sophomore season with a solid junior-year campaign. The golfer tallied a pair of top-10 finishes at the Sonoma State Invite and the 60th Annual SoCal Intercollegiate in March. Despite a strong string of tournaments during the middle of the season, Okasaki struggled toward the end, finishing outside the top 20 in each of UCSD’s final three tournaments.    
During the 33-year tenure of head 
coach Mike Wydra, UCSD has quali-fied at least one golfer for the regional event every year, but nationals remain elusive.
With the majority of the roster 
returning next season, the Tritons appear poised to break that streak. Oksaki, senior Raj Samra and junior transfer Richard Morris will lead UCSD into next year’s season, while Wydra will spend the offseason trying to solve the same problem he has faced all season: finding consistent play in the fourth and fifth spots on the start-ing roster.
Readers can contact Matt Croskey at 
mcroskey@ucs d
.edu.
SPECIALOFFER
Sculpt Fusion Yoga
4639 Carmel Mountain Rd. #102 San Diego, CA 9213
.+.$*,'$&/.&mmm$iYkbfj\ki_edoe]W$Yec8[d[\_jie\ekh>[Wj[ZOe]W
- enhances flexibility
- tones muscles- burns caloriespowerful body – peaceful mind
5Carmel Mtn. Rd.
Carmel Valley Rd.
12 Minutes
from UCSD!- releases stress
- prevents injury- improves concentration
#WdZckY^ceh[- detoxifies the body- promotes sleep
$200 OFFTeacher Training starts June 22nd!
with this ad!seven innings, allowing three runs on 
eight strikeouts. His performance was more than enough for the Tritons to seal the deal at 8–4. 
Rossman said the series was an 
encouraging end to the regular sea-son, but added that the team still has unfinished business. 
“I thought we clicked really well 
in the SFSU series, ” Rossman said. “We threw, hit and fielded very well. It was a good weekend to finish up the regular season and head into the postseason on. This time of year is what we strive for, what our goals are. We’ve achieved one goal: winning the CCAA. We’re not satisfied, and still have two more goals to accomplish. ”
The Tritons will now aim to 
win CCAA tournament, where Cal State Dominguez Hills, Chico State University and Cal State San Bernardino will all be in attendance. Over the regular season, the Tritons went 4–0 against CSU Dominguez Hills, 2–2 against Chico State and 2–2 against Cal State San Bernardino.
For the first round of the CCAA 
Tournament, UCSD will face Chico State on May 6 in Stockton. Lee said the Tritons’ pre-match preparation this season has been the key to their success.
“We are preparing for the playoffs 
the same way we have prepared for every other weekend of games, ” Lee said. “I have said this before, but we focus on quality of practice. I attri-bute my personal success to confi-dence and trusting my preparation. ”
Rossman agreed with his catching 
partner.
“We’re not doing anything differ-
ent for playoffs, ” Rossman said. “We just went about our business as usual today, with a normal practice. We’ve worked real hard as a group. We’ve earned everything we’ve achieved, and we’re just taking it a day at a time. ”
Readers can contact Cameron Tillisch 
at ctillisc@ucs d
.edu.seen since 2001 with a 30-20 record, and four mem
bers of the team earned 
All-California Col legiate Athletic 
Association honors. However, despite their efforts, UCSD finished the season sixth in the league, failing to qualify for postseason play.
On the upside, the team had its 
standouts: sophomore right-hander Camille Gaito was selected as co-pitch-er of the year and earned a spot on the All-CCAA First Team, along with junior outfielder Kris Lesovsky and senior catcher Nicole Sauari. Freshman infielder Nicole Spangler was selected to the All-CCAA Second Team.
“The season did not end on a good 
note because we expected to go to the playoffs, but even though it was disap-pointing, I have no regrets, ” senior captain Saari said. 
Because there were many under-
classmen members on the team this year, junior infielder Sarah Woofter said there was not enough time for them to learn what it takes to be a playoff team.
“Nobody wanted the season to end, ” 
Woofter said. “But we need to learn from it and use it as a learning season. ” 
The Tritons started off the season 
on a winning spree, but faltered down the stretch. At the end of March, the Tritons were holding a 23-11 record and third place in the conference; how-ever, they went just 7-9 in April, and fell out of the playoff race during their final weekend of play.
The Tritons consistently struggled 
with hitting consistency and bringing in runs in the earlier innings of games throughout the season: Five of their victories required them to come from behind.
The Tritons were, however, able to 
improve their defensive game, com-mitting fewer errors per game as a team than last season. The Tritons also posted a season-best nine-game win streak between March 5 and March 26, finishing the month with a 15-3 record.Individually, Saari ranked third in 
school history with a fielding percent-age of .991, and came in second on the team this season in doubles, runs bat-ted in, total bases, on-base percentage and slugging.
As the true stars of the season, 
the team’s pitchers — Gaito, senior right-hander Christine Zankich, junior right-hander Brittany Sheats and sophomore right-hander Tess Granath — wreaked havoc on opposing hit-ters. The staff combined to post a conference-leading 1.96 ERA, holding opponent hitters to a .265 batting aver-age and totaling nine shutouts (eight of which belonged to Gaito).
The Triton offense could not con-
sistently provide its excellent pitching staff with adequate run support, with the team ranked just sixth in the con-
ference in both batting average and runs scored.
Lesovsky was a bright spot in the 
Triton offense, finishing with a .413 batting average, 10 home runs and a perfect 1.000 fielding percentage.
Junior infielder Jennifer DeFazio 
said team members respect each other as equals — regardless of age and experience — and now know what i t  w i l l  t a k e  t o  m a k e  i t  t o  t h e  p l a y o f f s  next season, with all but three players returning.
“Through all the struggles we go 
through everybody has the same goals in mind, and we need to just work harder individually and as a team to get ready to go as a full force, ” Woofter said.
Readers can contact Yvonne Chow at 
ychow@ucs d
.edu.<ZQ\WV[\W.IKM+PQKW;\I\MQV;\WKS\WV
▶ BASEBALL, MYVTWHNL;WN\JITT;MI[WV*MOQV[?Q\P8ZWUQ[M+Z]UJTM[QV)XZQT
▶ SOFTBALL, MYVTWHNL
ERIK JEPSEN /GUARDIAN  FILE
The women’s softball team finished the regular season 30-20 overall, and 20-16 in the CCAA. 6I\QWVIT[-T]LM=+;,/WTNMZ[)OIQV
▶ GOLF, MYVTWHNLWWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG/SPORTS
;87:<;THURSDAY , MAY 6, 2010
+76<)+<<0--,1<7:" sports@ucsdguardian.org12 THE UCSD GUARDIAN 
HOTCORNER
 THIS DAY IN HISTORY
In 1915, Bo ston Re d Sox pitcher 
Babe Ruth made his pitching 
debut and hit the first home run of his career against the New York Yankees. Boston lo st 4-3 to New 
York in 15 innings.The senior was ejected three times (removed temporarily for 
rules infractions) in UCSD’s 10-7 victory over Sonoma State on April 30 in the quarterfinals of conference playoffs. She set the school record this season with 19 single-season ejections. STEPHANIE HEINRICH | W. WATER POLO
Matt Croskey
Associate Sports Editor
GOLF — On May 5, junior Keith 
Okasaki almost became the first Triton 
golfer to qualify for the National Collegiate Athletic Association Division II National Championship. But after tying for 65th place in the 
NCAA D-II Central/West Regional 
in Palm Desert, Calif., Okasaki didn’t quite make the cut.
As he qualified for the regional 
event as an individual, Okasaki needed to finish as the top individual who was not a member of a team already advancing to nationals to qualify for the tournament. His three-round total of 16-over par, 232 put him 13 strokes 
behind national qualifiers Patrick 
Boag from Western Washington and 
The Tritons followed a fiery month of March — during which they
  won 15 of 18 games — with a lackluster 7-9 record in April               to finish sixth in conference and narrowly miss the postseason.+ZM_0WVWZML
I\+WVNMZMVKM5MM\QV6WZ+IT
Liam Rose
Associate Sports Editor
CREW — Competing at the Western 
Intercollegiate Rowing Association Championships from May 1 to May 2, the men’s and women’s crew teams man-aged to earn a bit of honorable mention — including the Efficiency Trophy on the men’s side. The award is given to the team that has the best results based on the number of boats in competition. Held in Gold River, Calif., the champi-onships featured top competition from the West Coast. 
On the men’s side, three boats com-
peted in the finals on Sunday, having qualified on Saturday. The junior-varsity eight won their race, and the novice eight finished second. However, the var-sity eight — unable to overcome a slow start — did not fare as well, finishing sixth in their race. The novice boat, hot on the tail of the Orange Coast College squad, was welcomed to the finish line with the flash of a camera — and it was only after an official review that the Tritons were declared the runners-up.
UCSD head coach Zach Johnson was 
named WIRA Coach of the Y ear for the second consecutive year, and junior Jon Seibert was selected to the All-WIRA second team for his influential perfor-mance on the junior-varsity eight over the weekend. 
Third-place finishes by both the var-
sity and junior-varsity eight-boats led the women’s team, while the second nov-ice eight-boat took sixth place in its race.
Despite an inexperienced roster, the 
Tritons pushed to make themselves via-ble contenders. 
“We have a young team, ” women’s 
coach Pattie Pinkerton said. “It takes a couple of years to build the strength and endurance needed to compete on a national level. But we had some coura-geous races, and I was really excited to see that. ” 
Senior Brianna Patterson raced in 
five separate boats over the weekend, and her versatility earned her a spot on the All-WIRA second team.
While the final WIRA races signaled 
the end of the men’s season, the wom-en’s team will return to Gold River on May 15 to compete in the Pacific Coast Rowing Championships for a final week-end of competition.
Readers can contact Liam Rose at 
lfros
e@ucsd.edu.
Cameron Tillisch
Senior Staff Writer
BASEBALL —  The nationally No. 1 nationally-
ranked UCSD baseball team, having claimed California Collegiate Ath letic Association regular-
season honors after sweeping a series against the San Francisco State Gators from April 30 to May 1, will enter the postseason as heavy favorites.
In the series opener on Friday, The Tritons sent 
their reputation even further, scoring in every inning except the fourth and collecting a total of 24 hits. Junior outfielder Kyle Saul and senior shortstop Vance Albitz jump-started the offense at the top of the lineup with four hits apiece, while sophomore desig-nated hitter Danny Susdorf and senior catcher Kellen Lee combined for eight hits and runs batted in. Junior right-hander Tim Shibuya tossed six innings of one-run ball, and the Tritons cruised to a 19–3 victory.
Lee said his team faced the Gators as if they were 
already competing in the playoffs. 
“We approached the SFSU series as if it was the 
first weekend of the postseason, ” Lee said. “In essence, we practiced playing in the postseason — so when it starts up this weekend, we will already have felt the postseason atmosphere. ”
On Saturday, the Tritons and Gators played a 
doubleheader. Behind senior right-handed pitcher Matt Rossman, CCAA player of the week, UCSD cruised to a 9–1 win. Rossman tossed five innings, allowing one run while striking out nine.
Rossman said his focus on pitch location — spe-
cifically for off-speed pitches — has helped improve his game.
“My success has come from just pounding down 
in the strike zone to both sides of the plate and locat-ing off-speed pitches for strikes, ” Rossman said. “I try to keep it pretty simple. ”
On offense, the Tritons churned out a total of 17 
hits, while junior second baseman Grant Bauer hit his second home run of the season.
In Game Two, the Gators shook the Tritons up a 
bit by jumping out to a 3–0 lead by the second inning. However, a seven-run fourth inning propelled UCSD into the lead, and the team went on to bag a 9–5 win. Senior starting pitcher Kirby St. John earned the win by tossing six innings, during which he allowed only five earned runs.
Michael Benton hit his fourth homer of the year, 
while Saul and Albitz combined for six hits at the top of the lineup.
On Sunday, the Tritons completed their four-
game sweep against the Gators behind the arm of junior starter Guido Knudson. Knudson hurled TRITONS CARRY PLAYOFF INTENSITY TO FINAL SERIES
ERIK JEPSEN /GUARDIAN  FILE
UCSD concluded its season with a 20-16 conference record.
 See GOLF page 11For the past three years, the UCSD softball team has advanced to the California Collegiate Athletic Association 
playoffs. This year, even with one of its better records in recent seasons, the team fell just short of its goal. 
The Tritons recorded the highest 
winning percentage the program has Nicole Saari
All-CCAA First TeamKris Lesovsky
All-CCAA First Team
Nicole Spangler
All-CCAA Second Team
              to fi
Camille Gaito
Co-Pitcher of the Year
All-CCAA First TeamBY YVONNE CHOW
STAFF WRITER
PHOTO BY ERIK JEPSEN/GUARDIAN
See SOFTBALL page 11SOFTBALL
7SI[ISQ¼[*QL
NWZ6I\QWVIT[.ITT[;PWZ\
See BASEBALL page 11
A
AlllAllAl-CCC-CC-CC-CCAAAAAAA FirFiFirs
ngler
d Teamam
 All-C
