:762,5 :762,5 :<9-9,769; 05:0+, 50./;>(;*/
MONDAY
Height:  4-5 ft.
Wind: 4-9 mph
Water Temp: 62 FTUESDAY
Height:  5-6 ft.
Wind: 6-8 mph
Water Temp: 62 F
WEDNESDAY
Height: 6-7 ft.
Wind: 6-11 mph 
Water Temp: 62 FTHURSDAY
Height:  4-6 ft.
Wind: 3-10 mph 
Water Temp: 62 FLOW
$2.89
Arco, Chula Vista
407 E St. & 4th Ave.
HIGH
$3.89
76, Point Loma
1704 Rosecrans St. & Nimitz Blvd.THURSDAY FRIDAYMONDAY
H 62 L 48TUESDAY
H 68 L 50 MONDAY TUESDAY.(:7,9.(3365 :<9-9,769; 50./;>(;*/ -69,*(:; >,)7633 :<590:,
:<5:,;6:30  A.M.
7:13  P .M.
WEDNESDAY
H 78 L 51THURSDAY
H 79 L 53
 THURSDAY WEDNESDAY WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG7VVYS`+YH^U3PULZ
3PNO[Z:PYLUZ,SLJ[PVU,UKVYZLTLU[Z*HUKPKH[L7YVÄSLZ*SHZZPÄLKZ;YHJRHUK-PLSK>VTLU»Z>H[LY7VSV
ARE YOU HAPPY WITH 
THE SUN GOD LINEUP?
√  Yes
√  No
√  I don’t know<PM+W[\WN.ZMM8ZM[[
WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG MONDAY , APRIL 5, 2010 VOLUME XLII, ISSUE XLIII
By Andrew Tieu
Staff Writer
Five candidates attended the A.S. presidential 
debates last Friday, including two on brand-new slates that grew out of Student Voice! 
— which swept most election seats in recent years — and a three-person slate called NOW!
Candidates present were current A.S. President 
Utsav Gupta, on NOW!, Campuswide Senator Wafa Ben Hassine on Students First, Marshall College 
Senator Brian McEuen on Tritons First and independent candidates Thurgood Marshall College Chair Tan Dhillon and Muir College junior Joe Virgilio.
Independent candidates 
Sixth College senator John Condello and Muir College senior August Ryan Brenner did not attend.
The debates focused on the failed transportation 
referendum — which proposed raising student fees $40 per quarter, in order to maintain all campus shuttle lines — and the Winter Quarter student-media funding freeze enacted by Gupta in response to Koala  Editor in Chief Kris Gregorian’s use of a 
racial slur on SRTV .
Gupta defended the A.S. Transportation 
Committee’s recommendation to abandon the con-tentious referendum, and said he formed a Defense of Public Transportation Committee to save the Blue and White shuttles without raising student fees.
“We’ve recommended proposals and other sorts of 
cuts, ” Gupta said. “We wanted to explore other refer-endums so that any referendums that do come before Transportation referendum, media 
freeze dominate discussionss. Candidates Face Off for Presidency(:,3,*;065:
By Neda Salamat
Staff Writer
After an unexpected surge in requests from stu-
dent-media organizations for more money, the A.S. Council is searching for a way to fund UCSD’s 13 
active student-run publications for Spring Quarter. Media orgs requested $ 62,511.31 in funding this quarter, nearly 
double that of the 29,897.48 requested last quarter.
According to Vice President of Finance and Resources 
Peter Benesch, the A.S. Council allotted $45,000 to media organizations this year, estimating that $15,000 would be used each quarter. Instead, $23,114 was allocated in Fall Quarter and $25,912 was allocated in Winter Quarter. 
This quarter, $39,393 is being allocated to media organiza-
tions — leaving the council with a large deficit.KEEP UP
Watch the vice-
presidentialcandidatesdebate onMonday at 12 p.m. in Price Center Plaza.
See MEDIA page 2See DEBATES page 6
B.o.B. to Play Main Stage
By Janani Sridharan
Senior Staff Writer
After teasing students a week ago 
with bookmarks listing a partial lineup 
of this year’s Sun God Festival, Associate Vice President of Concerts & Events Alex Bramwell has named B.o.B., Crash Kings and The Parson Redheads as the remaining Sun God acts. 
They will join Drake, Relient K, 
Thrice and Michelle Branch on the main stage. Deejay acts Designer Drugs, Skeet Skeet, Robbed By Robots and Shark Attack will perform in the festi-val’s dance tent, leading up to a set by headlininger DJ Z-Trip.
The idway stage will host perfor-
mance by student organizations Donald Glover, Joe Mande and Dan Mintz. Cirque Berzerk, a troupe of gothic tra-peze artists from Los Angeles, will take to the stage periodically throughout the day. 
Bramwell said students’ reactions to 
the lineup released a week ago have been mixed. 
“The general reaction has been very 
positive, ” Bramwell said. “Of course, there are going to be complaints and some people are upset. ... We definitely don’t just choose whoever we feel like booking. Any name you could throw out as a suggestion for a headliner, we’ve likely checked [to see] if they are avail-able or not, and if they’re an option. ”
The festival’s total budget, which is 
drawn from student fees guest ticket sales, is roughly $690,000. Bramwell said security for the festival — including UC A.S. Council forced to compensate for 
spike in student-publication requests.
THE LINEUP
MAIN STAGE
Diversion Sound
Crash KingsB.o.BMichelle Branch
The Parson Redheads
ThriceRelient KDrake
DANCE TENT
DVCShark AttackRobbed by RobotsDJ Battle winnerSkeet SkeetDesigner DrugsZ-Trip
See LINEUP page 2;6;(33@;9(:/,+
TIMOTHY  WONG /GUARDIAN
Students kicked off Spring Quarter at Sigma Chi’s fourth annual Eurobash on April 2. The event ended early 
when police asked organizers to vacate, due to hospitalized students and failure to provide a noise permit.FALL 2009
2,257
REQUESTED
2,257
ALLOCATED
37,879
REQUESTED
23,114
ALLOCATEDWINTER 2010
2,669
REQUESTED
2,300
ALLOCATED 
29,897
REQUESTED
25,912
ALLOCATEDMEDIA-ORG FUNDING ALLOCATIONS
TOTAL  THE KOALASPRING 2010
3,471
REQUESTED
3,471
ALLOCATED 
62,511
REQUESTED
39,393
ALLOCATEDNEXT YEAR’S A.S. COUNCIL
$
$$$$$$$$$$$WHO YOU SHOULD VOTE FOR PAGE 4
EVERYBODY ELSE PAGE 7
PHILIP  RHIE/GUARDIAN
:<5.6+2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN  MONDAY , APRIL 5, 2010  NEWS
;OL<*:+ .\HYKPHU  PZ W\ISPZOLK 4VUKH`Z HUK ;O\YZKH`Z
K\YPUN [OL HJHKLTPJ `LHY I` <*:+Z[\KLU[Z HUK MVY [OL
<*:+ JVTT\UP[` 9LWYVK\J[PVU VM [OPZ UL^ZWHWLY PU HU`MVYT^OL[OLYPU^OVSLVYPUWHY[^P[OV\[WLYTPZZPVUPZZ[YPJ[S`WYVOPIP[LK HSSYPNO[ZYLZLY]LK;OL
<*:+.\HYKPHU PZ
UV[YLZWVUZPISLMVY[OLYL[\YUVM\UZVSPJP[LKTHU\ZJYPW[ZVYHY[;OL]PL^ZL_WYLZZLKOLYLPUKVUV[ULJLZZHYPS`YLWYLZLU[[OLVWPUPVUZVM[OL
<*:+.\HYKPHU [OL<UP]LYZP[`VM*HSPMVYUPHVY
(ZZVJPH[LK:[\KLU[Z;OL <*:+.\HYKPHU PZM\UKLKZVSLS`I`
HK]LY[PZPUN;OLUOLW\SSLKV\[OPZZ^P[JOISHKL
.LULYHS,KP[VYPHS!
editor@ucsdguardian.org
5L^Z! news1@ucsdguardian.org
-VJ\Z! features@ucsdguardian.org
/PH[\Z! hiatus@ucsdguardian.org 
6WPUPVU! opinion@ucsdguardian.org
:WVY[Z! sports@ucsdguardian.org
7OV[V! photo@ucsdguardian.org
(K]LY[PZPUN!
ads@ucsdguardian.orgPage Layout
9LaH-HYHaTHUK9LNPUH0W,TPS`2\)PUO5NV(YPLSSL:HSSHP
5HVTP:OPMMTHU;LYLZH;YPUO:PTVUL>PSZVU
4VUPJH)HJOTLPLY
(SMYLKV/=PSHUV1Y
9VI*VYLH
,]HU*VVRGeneral Manager
Advertising Art DirectorMarketing Team LeaderNetwork Administrator              :PTVUL>PSZVU
(S`ZZH)LYLaUHR
9LaH-HYHaTHUK
:TY\[P(YH]PUK
2LSZL`4HYY\QV
/H`SL`)PZJLNSPH4HY[PU
(UNLSH*OLU
(`LSL[)P[[VU
9LNPUH0W
;YL]VY*V_
*OLY`S/VYP
=PZOHS5H[HYHQHU
4H[[*YVZRL`
,K^PU.VUaHSLa
(WYPSSL4\ZJHYH
1LUUH)YVNHU
4H[[OL^7LJV[
,YPR1LWZLU
1VOU/HUHJLR
,TPS`2\
*OYPZ[PUH(\ZOHUH
7OPSPW9OPL
:HYP;OH`LY
4HYPH:VRVSV]Editor in Chief
Managing Editors
Copy EditorsNews EditorsAssociate News EditorsOpinion Editor
Associate Opinion EditorSports EditorAssociate Sports EditorFocus EditorAssociate Focus EditorHiatus EditorAssociate Hiatus EditorPhoto EditorAssociate Photo Editor
Design EditorArt Editors
Web Editor
Training and Development
Student Marketing and Events
@LSLUH(RVWPHU+HYH)\2PYI`2VV:OHUUVU>PU[LY:OH^U?\
Business Assistant
;PMMHU`/HU
Advertising Design and Layout 
)YHUKVU*O\,]HU*VVR2PT*VVWLY
Distributors
(SHYPJ)LYT\KLa:HS.HSSHNVZ:JV[[/H]YPZPR
<*:+.<(9+0(569.;OL<*:+.\HYKPHU
 .PSTHU+YP]L
3H1VSSH*(  Copy Readers
(T`.\aKHY4VUPJH/HPKLY1VUH[OHU2PT
4HYPH:VRVSV]5HVTP:^LV(UP[H=LYNPZ
Web Designers
1HRL:JOULPKLY1LUU`;>HUN
POORLY DRAWN LINES By Reza Farazmand
police officers and Staff Pro personnel 
— is approximately $50,000. 
“We spend less than half of our 
budget on booking acts, because of production and security costs that limit the money that we can spend on artists, ” Bramwell said.
Last year, according to 2008-09 
AVP Concerts & Events Garret Berg, ASCE spent about $550,000 on Sun God Festival, $40,000 of which went to security and about $120,000 of which went toward the talent budget.
Twenty thousand wristbands will 
be created for the event. Of these, 3,500 will be set aside for guests and sold for +W]VKQT,Q^QLML7^MZ!5IOIbQVM)TTWKI\QWV
▶ LINEUP, from page 1*]LOM\0Q\[
:MKWZL0QOP
See SUN GOD, page 3At an A.S. meeting on March 31, 
councilmembers debated whether to 
pull the money from mandate reserves — the council’s surplus from previous years — or from money intended to fund non-media student orgs.
Benesch said the council has not 
made an official decision on where the media funds will be pulled from. 
“I was the only one who suggest-
ed that we actually need to reallocate money so we can have some sort of sense of how much money we have left in other accounts, ” Benesch said. 
According to Benesch, 12 coun-
cilmembers abstained from the vote last Wednesday on where the fund-ing should be drawn from, claiming they didn’t want to be responsible for making the decision. The council will vote again at this week’s meeting.Additionally, Transfer Senator 
Adam Powers has reopened the media-org committee created by A.S. President Utsav Gupta during Winter Quarter to reexamine the funding guidelines. According to Powers, the committee aims to ease current guidelines with changes such as cre-ating an emergency reserve for last-minute issues. 
Associate Vice President of 
Student Organizations Andrew Ang said he supports the committee’s goals.
“I think that we should allo-
cate more money, and I don’t think $45,000 is enough, ” Ang said. 
Benesch said he is concerned 
that such lax standards will open the floodgates for requests in the future, forcing the council to spend its funds unwisely.“It’s the most ludicrous thing I’ve 
ever heard, ” he said, “Y ou need some sort of fiscal discipline. If you believe that this is a one-time occurrence, then maybe that would be appropri-ate. But it’s my opinion that it’s only going to get larger. ”
Out of the 13 media organiza-
tions that requested money, three were brought in for a council inter-view because they either submitted a request for an overly large sum of money, or because they represented a new publication.
One major funding request came 
from No. 15, a newly established fash-ion and arts magazine that requested $8,693 — the entirety of which was approved. In addition, the A.S. Council fully approved humor newspaper the 
▶ MEDIA, from page 1
See FUNDING, page 6
	 from your studies
and classes 

	
	

	







		

	

 

NEWS MONDAY , APRIL 5, 2010  THE UCSD GUARDIAN 3 
SUN GOD FESTIVAL wristbands may be 
reserved for guaranteed admission to the festival by a limited number of Society 60 members starting Thursday, April 15.
Reserve your wristband, learn  
more about Society 60 and join  at alumni.ucsd.edu/society60ATTENTION SOCIETY 60 MEMBERS!
Friday, March 26
8:56 a.m.: Welfare check
▶ A veteran in his 30s with post-
traumatic stress disorder reported “feeling down” and reacting unpre-dictably to “loud noises. ” 
Saturday, March 27
8:05 a.m.: Welfare check 
▶ A 15-year-old male wearing a 
blue T-shirt and a black jacket was reported as missing at Lot 103. 
Sunday, March 28
8:41 p.m.: Incomplete phone call
▶ A female was heard saying “What 
the heck” before getting disconnect-ed while making a 911 emergency call. Unable to locate.
Monday, March 299:12 a.m.: Vandalism
▶ A hole was punched in the wall 
where a sign was once posted at the Cognitive Sciences Building.12:44 p.m.: Reckless driving
▶ A female driver with “possible 
medical problems” was seen driv-ing erratically in the “wrong lane” at Campus Point Drive. Unable to 
locate.1:38 p.m.: Incomplete phone call
▶ “Laughing” was heard through a 
Thurgood Marshall College call box. 1:44 p.m.: Fire
▶ A trashcan was set on fire at 
Gilman Drive.7:22 p.m.: Suspicious person
▶ A 20-year-old male wearing a 
white sweater with yellow stains was seen “holding a syringe” and walking toward the Student Center. Gone on 
arrival.
Tuesday, March 30
9:12 a.m.: Suspicious person
▶ A bald white male wearing beige 
clothing was reported as “yelling at people” and “shouting some-thing about being a prophet” at the Center for Molecular Medicine Building.10:43 a.m.: General disturbance
▶ A homeless black male wearing 
a red sweater and blue beanie was reported as cursing, “yelling at staff ” and saying “Y ou might not live that long” to customers at the Mobile gas station.3:32 p.m.: Burglary
▶ A laptop was stolen through a 
broken window at the Sixth College apartments.
Wednesday, March 31
3:35 a.m.: Report of rape
▶ A Thornton Hospital nurse report-
ed that a rape had occurred at the UCSD campus.3:10 p.m.: Animal call
▶ A student reported being “bit” by 
a 64-pound black dog in front of the Student Health Building.3:29 p.m.: Suspicious person
▶ A female magazine solicitor in her 
20s was reported as “aggressive[ly] cursing” at someone on Library Walk. Unable to locate.
3:32 p.m.: Animal call
▶ A white dog without a leash 
was reported as “growling” at Foodworx.
Thursday, April 1
3:13 p.m.: Noise disturbance
▶ “Bands” were reported as caus-
ing noise disturbance at the Revelle Plaza.10:08 p.m.: Alcohol contact
▶ An intoxicated 20-year-old female 
was seen “passed out” at Lot 705.11:08 p.m.: Suicide attempt
▶ A female student texted that she 
had “taken 15 pills and [was] over-dosing. ”11:39 p.m.: Drunk in public
▶ A female reported that her intoxi-
cated friend was “trying to strike” her at the Matthews apartments. 
 
— Compiled by Sonia Minden
Senior Staff WriterLIGHTS  AND SIRENS ?ZQ[\JIVL[\W*M
)^IQTIJTM*MNWZM,IaWN.M[\Q^IT
$40 each. This year, wristbands will 
be available on the Thursday before the festival, in addition to the day of the event. They can be retrieved from Marshall Field on Thursday, May 13 from noon to 6 p.m., and on Friday, May 14 starting at 9 a.m.
“If students have class on 
Thursday and Friday, they can decide which classes are more important and pick up their wristbands on the best day, ” Bramwell said. 
Last year, student wristbands 
could only be picked up on the day of the festival. Many concertgoers — worried by the fact that Sun God 2008 had run out of student tickets — crowded the lines Friday morning and spent up to four hours waiting to pick up their wristbands. According to Bramwell, there were roughly 1,000 wristbands left over after the 2009 festival. 
“Last year, we didn’t sell out, ” he 
said. “I’m not concerned [about run-ning out of tickets], and I would advise students that they don’t neces-sarily need to be concerned and they can come on Friday to pick it up. Of course, no promises can be made. ” 
Bramwell said he hoped that mov-
ing the distribution to Marshall Field will help keep the line more con-tained and easier to regulate by cam-pus police. 
Following the annual Battle of the 
Bands and the first-ever DJ Battle Dance Party — which took place over the weekend at the Loft — student act Diversion Sound and deejays J-Sharp and Barons of Bass will also perform at the festival. 
Readers can contact Janani Sridharan 
at jsridhar@ucsd.edu.▶ SUN GOD, from page 2OUT OF CONTEXT
The only thing I like about football is that, on 
the Super Bowl, no one’s shopping. So that’s when I go shopping.”
JOE VIRGILIO
CANDIDATE, A.S. PRESIDENT“4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG/OPINION
7816176
+76<)+<<0--,1<7:" opinion@ucsdguardian.orgMONDAY , APRIL 5, 2010
WEB
POLL
SHOULD THE 
UNIVERSITY 
PROVIDE 
HEALTH CARE 
FOR STATE 
PRISONERS?80%  
15%  5%Yes.
I don’t know.No.
Out of 41 votesYes.
The Guardian  editorial board 
has been skeptical of a 
Condello candidacy ever since he tried to melt the student-media freeze with his 
bare hands last quarter.
After a series of tipsy committee 
meetings with campus-newspaper leaders that ballooned his head to epic proportions, that cocky son of a gun sauntered into the A.S. Council meeting with nothing to show for 
hours of “deliberation” (read: chair 
swivelation, ball bustation). It was an overconfidence that allowed Vice President of Finance and Resources Peter Benesch to come dangerously close to pushing a well-prepared, content-biased funding model through council.
Then there’s the fact that 
Condello has an absence record like 
a battlefield, two untouched sena-
tor projects and one of the hottest tempers in the room. Last Friday, he missed the presidential debates in Price Center Plaza, and has proven five times less likely to answer our phone calls than current A.S. President Utsav Gupta.
But do we really want Gupta answering our calls when all we can get out of him is the same old dodgy press release? What sets Condello apart from Gupta is that he wears his heart on his sleeve. He’s completely unscripted — often to a fault — but we’ d rather know what our president is thinking than watch him whisper it among his office entourage. 
Unlike the current president, 
Condello has his priorities straight. Sloppy and angry as his performance may have been, the Sixth College senator was one of the only council-members during the funding freeze to sacrifice his poker face for the absolute protection of student rights. Gupta and Benesch’s proposal would have given self-important A.S. kids the right to choose which newspa-pers could thrive on campus. Not only would that be a fucking snore, it would be downright unconstitutional. 
In a way, it will break our hearts 
to see the current president go. Gupta is one of the hardest-working student politicians we’ve ever encountered on the council  — even if he has estranged half his govern-ing body and entered annoying legal battles like making the council into a 
501(c)(3) organization and trying to 
shut down the Koala . Y eah, he would 
probably get a lot more paperwork done than Condello. But at this point, no affinity for gruntwork can make up for the skewed, isolated ide-ologies Gupta has revealed himself to hold over the last couple months.
Of the other candidates, no one 
beats Condello in consistency and 
likability. Tritons First frontman 
Brian McEuen says all the right things, but his goals are lackluster, his contributions are impossible to track and he makes us feel like we’re talking to a teleprompter. Students First figurehead Wafa Ben Hassine is a doer and a dreamer, but her dev-astating political correctness is off-putting to the average student, and her record of emotional investment in certain issues could make for toxic council relations.
Independent candidate Tan 
Dhillon also shows promise, but he could use a year on council to understand the hot mess he’ d be dealing with, and his presidential swagger is in dire thirst of some Obamafication. As for independents August Brenner and Joseph Virgilio — hope you guys at least got laid on the “I’m a presidential candidate” pitch.
If this was high school, Condello 
would be the candidate with “cool kid” syndrome, but we think there’s just enough UCSD nerd in him to fuel the late-night Excel binges and student-org visits. He did completely 
change the direction of the shady 
nonaffiliate speech policy commit-tee last year, and has proven he can wake up at 4 a.m. for crew practice. Plus, in the end, Condello knows the ultimate peacekeeper is a nice, cold beer. It’ d be refreshing if the A.S. Council could finally earn a little cred with its constituency by doing what college students are supposed 
to do.
Most importantly, whether or not 
Condello hits the grindstone as hard 
as he says he will, at least he won’t do more harm. He’s far more cau-tious about the idea of a D-I football team, and won’t waste any more time trying to defund the Koala . Sorry, 
Gupta — it was good while it lasted.
In the past, the vice president of student life might as well have been called the VP Sun God. Y ear after year, diversity and 
athletics have been thrown to the wayside by a bubble event planner who loves fliers, music and parties. If elected, Desiree Prevo, who’s running on the Students First slate, will change all that.
As a board member on the 
Black Student Union and a cur-rent A.S. campuswide senator, she played an instrumental role in drafting the BSU’s list of demands and sustaining resistance in the aftermath of Winter Quarter’s rac-ist events. Her close ties with the Students for Affirmative Action Committee will ensure outreach and retention won’t be ignored in favor of a few annual concerts.
Prevo — a calm, rational think-
er — also believes that defund-ing the Koala  isn’t the answer 
to improving UCSD’s campus climate. Incumbent VP Student Life 
Ricsie Hernandez has, to put it lightly, taken a hands-off leader-ship role this year — especially in ensuring AVP Concerts & Events Alex Bramwell didn’t completely ruin Sun God with another under-whelming lineup.  
Prevo’s plan to have weekly 
check-ins and improve communi-cation within her office may seem an easier-said-than-done response to the current lack of supervision, and it’s a bit concerning that she lacks a specific vision for what she’ d like to see each of her three associ-ates accomplish. But her greatest strength as a candidate lies not so much in her specific plans for the three sectors of Student Life — Diversity, Concerts & Events and Athletics — as in her demonstrated passion for reform. Her commit-ment to diversity is an especially strong indicator that she’ d expand the office to become more than a sideline Sun God cheerleader. 
It’s worth noting that Prevo’s 
opponent, Kristina Pham of the NOW! slate, has a host of awesome ideas — such as restoring after-noon concerts at Price Center in the week leading up to Sun God. But unlike Pham and Tritons First candidate Nicole Metildi, Prevo has already proven herself both a competent leader and an honest, sensible strategist — two qualities to value in a VP who promises to pump new life into those two neglected parts of Student Life. 
:PTVUL>PSZVU
EDITOR  IN CHIEF
(S`ZZH)LYLaUHR
9LaH-HYHaTHUK
MANAGING  EDITORS,+0;690(3)6(9+
The UCSD Guardian  Editorial Board conducted hour-long interviews with all presidentiai candidates, 45-minute 
interviews with all vice presidential candidates and 30-minute interviews with all campus sentaor candidates. 
The board based its endorsements on these interviews, as well as the experience of each candidate. Views 
expressed herein represent the majority vote of the editorial board and are not necessarily those of the UC 
Board of Regents, the ASUCSD or the members of the Guardian  staff. /H`SL`)PZJLNSPH4HY[PU
(UNLSH*OLU
NEWS EDITORS
;YL]VY*V_
OPINION  EDITORILLUSTRATIONS  BY CHRISTINA  AUSHANA /GUARDIANDESIREE
PREVOVICE PRESIDENT OF STUDENT LIFE
DON’T FORGET  TO VOTE. 
The A.S. Council is responsible for roughly $3 million in
student fees. Vote on TritonLink before 4 p.m. on Friday. RESPONSIBILITIES
tActs as the student body’s official
representative, and chief executive 
officer of the A.S. Council
SALARY & BENEFITS
t$10,000 per year
tA-spot parking upgrade
WHY WE ENDORSE HIM
He’s got the right ideas — and the popular support to make them happen.RESPONSIBILITIES
tServes as interim A.S. president in 
event of office vacancy
tAppoints and dismisses council-
members on A.S. committees
SALARY & BENEFITS
t$5,250 per year
tA-spot parking upgrade
WHY WE ENDORSE HER
She knows Student Life is aboutmore than event planning.PRESIDENT
JOHN
CONDELLO 2010-11 A.S. COUNCIL
ENDORSEMENTS
OPINION MONDAY , APRIL 5, 2010  THE UCSD GUARDIAN 5 
Our long-deliberated 
choice to endorse Josh Grossman for Vice President of Finance and 
Resources comes with quite a few reservations. His intention to use thinly veiled media-org funding rules to pursue the shutdown of the Koala , for 
example, demonstrates that he is just another sketchy Peter Benesch character.
Not only would such an 
endeavor be a waste of the VP Finance’s time and poten-tially cost the university a lot of money in legal battles, it’s also extremely divisive and harmful toward other media that might get caught in the crossfire. The convictions expressed in his interviews, furthermore, show that he is dangerously out of touch with student opinion. 
It’s not unreasonable to 
assume that, if both Gupta and Grossman are elected, they will make the most toxic com-bination since vodka met Red Bull. Except instead of a lethal hangover, they would cause a divided council and a whole lot of wasted time and money. 
But Grossman’s edge over 
competitor Andrew Ang is his fiscal responsibility. With student fees at an all-time high, reducing unnecessary spending within the council’s budget should be a top priority. Grossman has said he’ll scru-tinize every item in the budget before it’s approved ,and is ready and willing to place limits and on A.S. spending — some-thing Ang, having been burned for his non-content-neutral attempt earlier this year, is now too cautious to feel comfortable doing.
Given the likelihood that 
administrators try to dip into the A.S. funding pool next year, we need a VP who will hold his ground against outside interests. Ang seems to crumble to anybody’s will if it’s strong enough, while Grossman’s position in the A.S. committee to review the Transportation Referendum shows an ability to put in the research and resist administrative blackmailing.
As proposals like the 
Transportation Referendum have shown, we are going to need someone with concrete plans for the budget, and the backbone to stay the course — we just wish Grossman’s commendable financial policy didn’t come in such a poten-tially disastrous package. It’s going to be Grossman’s job to be a “watchdog of student fees” — not shut down the Koala . 
Hopefully he’ll learn early on to stick to his job description.
Abubbly Eleanor Roosevelt College sophomore with a Justin Bieber haircut, Michael Raimondi has chosen his senatorial goals wisely: 
He wants to help students understand how to navigate administrative roadblocks and partake in campus sustainability. 
As an Econaut working with Housing, Dining and Hospitality 
Services, Raimondi’s administrative know-how has generated some refreshing proposals. He plans to educate students about RAs and petitioning classes, reduce superfluous A.S. printing and recruit more trash cans and student art. He may not have the strongest grasp on how to help failing enterprises like the Grove Cafe, but he knows that something needs to change — even if it’s something as simple as add-ing a more visible sign.
RAIMONDIMICHAELVICE PRESIDENT OF FINANCE AND RESOURCES
FACUNDO RAMOSVICE PRESIDENT OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS
OK, we’ll admit Roberson isn’t very experienced when it comes to A.S. Council politics. But anyone who drops by a four-hour coun-
cil meeting because she thinks it’s “interesting” would be an asset to our council. Plus, there’s something to be said for a senator as engag-ing and amiable as Roberson. She’s a BSU member with a talent for informing those who don’t understand; her welcoming personality and reasonable demeanor will help her reach out to a large variety of stu-dents and help them see why diversity should be a campus priority.
Being a longtime runner on the track team, she’s also valuable as a 
representative of the athlete’s perspective on council matters — which 
will hopefully result in more coordination with the Athletics Department.
Our only worry is that Roberson will be so busy 
studying for chemistry and jumping hurdles next year that she’ll let her senatorial obligations fall to the way-side. But considering her success in time management thus far, we’re betting she won’t let us down.
ROBERSONDEYNA
Every platform supports increasing the number of on-campus events, but Eleanor Roosevelt College 
sophomore Zoe Seher’s intense involvement with the student-org system proves she has the skills and connec-tions — not just the ideas — to get the job done. 
Seher has structured plans for putting on cultural events and 
art fairs, thanks to her time at the Center for Student Involvement. Hopefully, she can even impart this  know-how onto her more clueless 
peers. She wants to teach students about event finance and how to fill out paperwork; about how to rent space in Price Center for free, so there is more speech about controversial issues; about org delega-tion and retention. She wants to host more events on campus, and she actually knows how to do it. Imagine that.
SEHERZOE
Though generally inexperienced in the way of administrative bureau-cracy, Marshall’s main appeal lies in his levelheaded approach to issues 
he’s passionate about: athletics and student outreach. 
Unlike most pro-football councilmembers, Marshall has personally 
gauged student opinion on the subject, and constructed a solution that considers alternative funding. His opinion that the A.S. Council must find a way to defund the Koala may compromise free-speech ideals, but a 
dissenting opinion would still benefit discussions on the topic next year. 
Though Marshall is most passionate about football, his well-played 
actions during the “Compton Cookout” fiasco impressed us most. While many sacrificed diplomacy for easy-to-shout slogans, Marshall kept communicating his viewpoints rationally in public forums and rallies, encouraging dialogue between upset and frustrated groups of students. His mature level of involvement will be an invaluable asset for the A.S. Council next year.
CODY
MARSHALLUCSD’s tornado of student leaders — A.S. hotheads, SAAC activists, student-media diehards — often become so wrapped up in themselves 
that they forget to take into account the sentiments of the remaining 80 percent: the students who would rather their fees go toward stock-ing essential lab equipment than the Sun God lineup. Jason Caffrey will always err on the side of conserving the council’s $3 million, and funnel-ing it back, wherever possible, into the academic experience.
More than your average Geisel geek, Caffrey also has a grasp on which 
documents he would need to present to which departments to make headway in cutting costs. Sure, he might stick out like a Ticonderoga in a room of bleeding ballpoints. But his cynicism — and indifference to luxu-ries like a D-I football team — is refreshing, and, unlike most average-Joe candidates before him, Caffrey has stumbled through enough dron-ing A.S. minutes to know a referendum from a resolution from a First Amendment lawsuit.
CAFFREYJASON 
Vague buzzwords like “outreach” and “diversity” have been choice vocabulary on the campaign trail this year. One of the few senato-
rial candidates to present a clear idea of how she’ d actually pursue those grand ideals, though, Chua plans to encourage activism both on campus and in Sacramento. She’s passionate about fighting fee increases and pushing for the D.R.E.A.M. Act, which would make undocumented immigrant students eligible for financial aid.
They’re goals that are, granted, pretty lofty for a lowly senator 
with three short quarters to push an agenda. But unlike most of her opponents, Chua has experience lobbying the capital and has spent two years as an intern in the A.S. External Affairs office — which, along with a fleshed-out agenda, sets her apart from this year’s crop of inexperi-enced slate puppets. 
CHUARUBY
Don’t let her cute little freckles fool you: As the most qualified campuswide senator candidate this spring, 
Elman means business. A superstar member of the Student Sustainability Collective, Elman is experienced in navigating administrative bureaucracy.
In other words, when she says she wants to make Sun 
God Festival more sustainable and encourage the use of public transpor-tation next year, we believe she’s got the know-how and drive to make it happen.
She’s also well-informed about a slew of other issues sure to plague 
the council next year. She’s a tree-hugger who understands the impor-tance of the California Democracy Act and doesn’t think students should foot the bill for the Loft or a football team when tuition is shooting through the roof. And, in regard to the media freeze, she said she wants to increase access to funds rather than add regulations. Right answer.
Now, if only she’ d try and run this entire mess of a council.
ELMANELIZABETH
After the eye-opening racially charged events last quarter, it’s difficult to deny the importance of enacting some well-orchestrated efforts to 
educate our campus about cultural diversity. 
Like many others in the Students First slate, Elizabeth Garcia has 
staked her candidacy on this hot issue. Though only a Muir College freshman — and a generally uninformed one at that — Garcia shows potential of becoming an effective leader for her cause.
Most of all, Garcia demonstrates the kind of eloquence necessary to 
ensure both cooperation between colleagues and a rational mindset in answering the controversial questions now facing the A.S. Council. 
Seeing as she hasn’t even been here a year, it’s hard to predict whether 
Garcia will follow through. If she catches on quick, though, she has the potential to become one of the council’s most effective senators.
GARCIAELIZABETHCAMPUSWIDE SENATORSRESPONSIBILITIES
tAdvises president and council on 
all fiscal issues
tOversees activity-fee distribution
SALARY & BENEFITS
t$5,250 per year
tA-spot parking upgrade
WHY WE ENDORSE HIM
He has concrete plans to reduce 
superfluous spending.RESPONSIBILITIES
tEducates student body on issues 
affecting UCSD at city, state and national levels
tLobbies officials and legislators 
on behalf of student body
tServes as UC Student Association 
rep for UCSD
SALARY & BENEFITS
t$5,250 per year
tA-spot parking upgrade
WHY WE ENDORSE HIM
His experience in the ExternalAffairs office ensures he’ll get things done in Sacramento.
It’s been a busy year for 
student activists. A mas-sive tuition increase, a contentious debate 
over racial sensitivity and minority retention on cam-pus, student-loan reform and an ongoing statewide dialogue about the contro-versial D.R.E.A.M. Act have meant a packed schedule for the A.S. Office of External Affairs. 
Next year will no doubt 
prove just as critical for student mobilization as the last seven months. With that in mind, it’s clear the candidate most qualified to take the reigns of such efforts is Facundo Ramos.
Nearly three years of 
experience in the external office have given Ramos the knowledge, the back-ground and the ideas necessary to head up a new year of student-led political activism. 
He intends to rein-
vigorate efforts to directly engage with lawmakers, and has plans to join up with the United States Student Association and take his activism to the national stage — a much-needed step toward letting those who can make a difference hear what we have to say. 
Under the mentorship 
of current Vice President of External Affairs Gracelynn West, Ramos has been schooled in the ways of effective organizing and dedication to the student cause. Despite his qualifica-
tions, however, there are certain points of concern about Ramos. As the brother of immigrant rights activist Matias Ramos, he seems likely to focus the bulk of his efforts on mobi-lizing students in favor of the D.R.E.A.M. Act.
He should keep in mind 
that as an elected official, he will be responsible for representing all students — which means making tuition costs and increased state funding for the uni-versity a primary goal.
It wouldn’t hurt if also 
practiced his public-speak-ing skills. While his experi-ence is invaluable, it could all be wasted if no one is listening.
RESPONSIBILITIES
tComplete at least two
projects each year, one of 
which must benefit the entire campus
tServe on at least two
campuswide committees
tVote on the council floor
JOSH GROSSMAN
 MONDAY , APRIL 5, 2010 
you are as small as possible. ”
In contrast, McEuen, Dhillon and Ben 
Hassine agreed that the decision to fail the 
referendum will result in cuts to shuttle services and therefore negatively affect students .
Dhillon said the funding issues now facing 
Transportation and Parking and Services could be remedied by creating more “S” spots that students could buy to fund the shuttles. 
In regard to the media freeze, Gupta claimed 
he never actively tried to defund controversial newspaper the Koala , or stop their distribution. 
“My concern has always been regarding 
our sponsorship of their publication, and I would defend their right to distribute their publication across the campus, as I have done, ” Gupta said.
He added that he had been willing to explore 
the “government speech model” suggested by Vice President of Finance and Resources Peter Benesch, which would give the council discre-tionary power to fund certain media organiza-tions through advertisements. 
McEuen, who also ran with the Student 
Voice! slate last year, said he would have edu-cated groups such as the Koala  about diversity 
instead of targeting the publication because of its beliefs. 
McEuen said his slate aims to fund more 
student orgs and lobby externally. 
“We want to lobby not just the regents, but 
we want to go to the state level and the local legislatures, and lobby them to make sure that they understand that students are not going to stand for these drastic fee increases, ” he said.Ben Hassine said all students should be 
given the right to issue their publications if they are constitutionally protected.
“If media orgs don’t fall under such protec-
tion, we should take publications off campus through legal channels, ” she said.
Ben Hassine said that, as a member of the 
media funding committee, she boycotted meet-ings that she believed falsely pitted the Black Student Union and the media organizations against each other. 
“If we wanted to make our guidelines bet-
ter, let’s make a committee to find what’s illegal not go out there specifically for one org, ” Ben Hassine said.
Ben Hassine added that, although her slate is 
geared strongly toward Students for Affirmative Action Committee  organizations, it will reach out to other constituents because of the social and ethnic diversity of her running mates.
Virgilio, who is running on a platform cen-
tered on improving student life, said he wants to bring more fun to UCSD, but is unsure about how to do so.
“[Creating fun] step by step, that’s not some-
thing that we can do, ” Virgilio said.
The vice-presidential debates will take place 
on Monday, April 5, in Price Center Plaza at noon. Voting will begin the same day and con-tinue until 4 p.m. on Friday. At 5:30 p.m., elec-tion results will be announced at Round Table Pizza in Price Center. Students can vote both on TritonLink and Library Walk.
Readers can contact Andrew Tieu at atieu@
ucsd.edu.NEWS MONDAY , APRIL 5, 2010  THE UCSD GUARDIAN 6 
	



	

	


 !"
#$%&'('
)'*(&*
+%
,%&
-.,% ,%&
/01% 
"' *
233% %4%
53.6'%  &
7
 7'
%
) + 8
 &4%8  8
 
8%4%%
8
%%

9:!02;!
	


 !!"#$
<
 =
1&
%

3>
%71&= 
'7 *
17%&3>
=%
7
77%'
'% 3>
'=



3>
=?%' 
%', 3>LABS
LANGUAGES
LECTURESSUMMERSESSION.UCSD.EDUUC SAN DIEGO
2010
SUMMER
SESSION
COMING 
SOON!
ENROLLMENT BEGINS
MONDAY, APRIL 12
*  *  *  *  *  *
APPOINTMENT TIMES 
POSTED AT TRITONLINK
APRIL 5
FEES DUE
JUNE 21
SESSION I BEGINS
JUNE 28
For more info contact the 
Summer Session Office
(858) 534-5258 
or e-mail 
SUMMER@UCSD.EDUUDG\XFVGHGX7KH5DG\6FKRROOHYHUDJHVLWVSRVLWLRQDWWKH
QH[XVRIUHVHDUFKDQGGHYHORSPHQWWRPRYH
GLVFRYHU\WRWKHPDUNHWSODFH
<RXNQRZ8&6DQ'LHJRQRZJHWWRNQRZXVNOW WHAT?
SHUFHQWRI5DG\0%$VWXGHQWVKDYHXQGHUJUDGXDWH
GHJUHHVLQVFLHQFHWHFKQRORJ\RUHQJLQHHULQJ
0%$352*5$06$1'
81'(5*5$'8$7(&2856(6&+(0,675<'(*5((▶ DEBATES, from page 16M_;TI\M[-UMZOM.ZWU;\]LMV\>WQKM	;XTQ\
Koala ’s $3,471 request to print its issue in full color.
According to Benesch, the allocation caused 
a divide amongst the councilmembers.
“[No. 15] was allocated more than I’ve heard 
of any media organization ever being allocated 
— ever, ” Benesch said. “$9,000 approximately for one media organization to publish for one quarter — that’s one-fifth of what we’re supposed allocate out per year to one media organization. ”
Ang believes the sum is a non-issue. “They requested a lot because of the nature 
of their magazine, ” he said. “It’s a fashion maga-zine, and they wanted to develop a publication that was also a work of art. We have a memo-randum of understanding where they will never request that much again. ” 
The council will revote on the issue at the 
April 7 meeting this week.
Readers can contact Neda Salamat at  nsalamat@
ucsd.edu.;MVI\WZ:MWXMV[5MLQI.]VLQVO+WUUQ\\MM
▶ FUNDING, from page 27+(
5$&(
,621A.S. PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES  20102010 A.S. ELECTION PREVIEW
:$7&+7+(0581
APRIL 5, 2010 | PAGES 8-128 THE UCSD GUARDIAN  
 MONDAY , A P
P
Gunning for re-election isn’t exactly what most A.S. 
Presidents plan for. Which isn’t to say last year’s indepen-
dent underdog, Sixth College senior Utsav Gupta, did either. Especially after he froze media org funding and, in turn, turned many students against him.
“I looked at the candidates running for president this 
year and honestly I was a little distressed, ” said Gupta. 
“None of them had cabinet level experience, most were 
only in [the A.S. Council] for one year, and most didn’t 
do much while they were there. ”
Since securing the A.S. presidency last year as an 
independent candidate, Gupta has spent his fourth year as a bioengineering major balancing his course load with lofty goals. As result, he’s had to cut down the usual five to six classes he takes a quarter — forcing him to stay another year.
The largest criticism of Gupta’s presidency is likely 
that he hasn’t quite finished much of what he’s started.
Take, for instance, Koala  editor in chief Kris 
Gregorian calling the BSU members protesting the 
0&(8(1BRIAN
&21'(//2JOHN
+$66WAFA BE N
In two short years on the heated A.S. 
Council floor, Thurgood Marshall College sophomore Brian McEuen has almost never slipped out of line. His words are few and carefully chosen, avoiding the emotional charge that often divides his fellow council-members and drags meetings on.
In fact, McEuen’s place at the table might 
go unnoticed by a student unfamiliar with the council — if not for his stature. He’s a born politician, with kind eyes and a dash-ing jawline. (The spitting image of current Vice President of Finance and Resources Peter Benesch — also known for his serene, sometimes slippery presence on the council).
Y ou’ d think McEuen was born for this. 
But when he was first recruited to UCSD by the men’s volleyball coach, the high-school senior never expected to end up in student government. However, he was cut after three short weeks as a Triton, and McEuen was soon hot on the hunt for a new team.
That’s when he headed to the fourth 
floor of Price Center East. He served as an A.S. freshman senator his first year, and has since moved into the position of Marshall College senator and senate vice chair.
All this, while juggling a Lambda Chi 
Alpha membership, UCSD club volleyball and a brewing den of homemade beer back home. (He is currently in the process of brewing his second batch, a red oak amber.) 
McEuen has also taken an extremely 
active role in presenting student con-cerns to administrators: He sits on the Campus Affairs Committee, the Advisory Committee on Sustainability and the Registration Fee Advisory Committee.
Still, the senator’s decision to run for 
the council’s most powerful position — especially on a brand-new slate — was somewhat unexpected, considering he’s only a college senator going into his junior year. 
(Sixth College junior and fellow presidential 
candidate John Condello, a close friend of McEuen, is taking a similarly premature leap toward the top spot.)
The Student Voice! slate, which car-
ried McEuen into senatorship last year, was 
doomed to disintegrate after independent 
candidate and current A.S. President Utsav Gupta won by a landslide last spring, leav-ing SV! candidate Erin Brodwin with only a few hundred votes.Revelle College ju
n
Campuswide Senator W
always flying into A.S. from somewhere else 
—
College Council, the S t
Action Committee, th e
Association, KSDT Ra d
Resource Center or U C
Solutions.
Ben Hassine said s h
hyper-involvement in s
lent her an edge over t h
candidates: a “wholes o
what UCSD has to off e
But in the eyes of s
members, Ben Hassin e
— and the packed sch e
compromises her abili t
sibilities of a seat on t h
According to Asso c
of Student Organizati o
Ben Hassine was part o
Organization Funding which Ang chairs, fro
m
spring to early Fall Qu a
ally stepped down afte r
missed meetings.
“ As a campuswide s
sents a huge commun i
— and by being part o f
maybe she thinks she’s those committees, ” Anvery noble and that’s v
e
to do, but if she can’t f o
them, then how is she 
entire student body?”
However, A.S. Tra n
Powers disagrees with 
“I think if it’s a vali d
criticism of all of us, ” P
think there’s a single st u
ning who is not comp l
with commitments. I t h
of a good candidate: h o
under that pressure th a
from what I’ve seen, s h
attention to all of her c
well by them. ”
Powers worked wi t
California Democracy 
petitioned to allow sta t
the budget with a sim p
the statewide ballot in i
UCSD chapter — fou nLast February, after A.S. president 
Utsav Gupta made a split-second decision to freeze funds for all student newspapers, one senator in particular took the spotlight. Sixth College sophomore John Condello became the posterboy for Gupta’s opposing army, aggressively vocal about the absolute preservation of free speech on campus — in this case, free speech in the form of access to content-neutral press funding.
Condello’s impassioned participation in 
the debate — which at times became very personal at public forums and meetings, as well as over the A.S. e-mail listserv — was a testament to his commitment against a shady, over-bureaucratic council.
“My whole rule is just to take the 
bullshit out of A.S. and reconnect with the students, rather than this extension of high-school ASB and being the patsy for the administration, ” Condello said.
The Sixth College senator argued that 
Gupta’s move to re-evaluate media funding guidelines was a thinly veiled attempt to defund controversial humor newspaper the Koala, which was contributing to racial ten-sions on campus.
“[It was] about shutting down the 
Koala , ” Condello said. “Just be honest about 
it — if you’re going to fuck someone over, just tell them you’re going to fuck them o v e r.”
Though Condello — who became 
close friends with Koala  members during 
the controversy — acknowledged that the publication’s content is often extremely offensive, he maintained that its purpose on campus is to ensure the right to express ideas freely. 
“I agree with none of the content of the 
Koala , ” Condello said. “What I do agree 
with [is] some of the ideas behind it, which is the idea behind any media organization, 
and that’s to broaden people’s horizon. ”
Gupta appointed Condello to a commit-
tee composed mainly of student-media rep-
resentatives, tasked with examining alterna-tives to open funding of all publications. At the pinnacle of the controversy — a March 
10 A.S. Council meeting at which council-
members were to vote on the committee’s findings — Vice President of Finance and Resources Peter Benesch showed up with a PowerPoint unfamiliar to the rest of the 
3+272*5$3+<
GUPTA/DHILLON/HASSINE BY JOHN HANACEK/GUARDIAN
MCEUEN/VIRGILIO BY ERIC WANG/GUARDIAN
CONDELLO BY ERIK JEPSEN/ GUARDIAN
BRENNER BY TIMOTHY WONG/GUARDIAN
3+272,//8675$7,21
COVER PAGE BY ERIK JEPSEN/ GUARDIAN
CENTERSPREAD BY EMILY KU & JOHN HANACEK/GUARDIAN&217,18('213$*( &217,18('21 3 &217,18('213$*($6$
5(68/72)7+,6<($5¶6&+$5*('
campus climate, more 
students than ever seemto want a vote on A.S.
Council. In total, 39 candidates ran forcampuswide positions, many of whom helpedform four new student slates. Student Voice! —a slate riddled with dirty politics and uncooperative figureheads by its third year in existence — split into Students First, headed by Wafa BenHassine and TritonsFirst, led by Brian McEuen. Meanwhile,the special-interestStudents for Footballslate popped up, alongwith a suspiciously thin Gupta-sponsored NOW! slate. With the fresh-faced group will come newissues and new problems for 2010-11. This year,it’s anyone’s game.
A.S. PRESIDENTIAL   RACE 2010
Gunning for re-election isn’t exactly wh a
Presidents p lanforWhichisn’tto say last ye*837$UTSAV
6(&21'7,0($5281'
Gupta is the first president in A.S. Council
history to run for re-election.FOCUS 9
 PRIL 5, 2010
Compton Cookout “ungrateful niggers” on air. Though 
SRTV’s contract had only been renewed a mere weeks before the event, Gupta pulled the station’s plug nearly an hour after the violation. After that, he put a freeze on all media organization funding. 
The maneuver, Gupta says, was under his jurisdiction 
according to Section II of the A.S. Constitution which stipulates that the role of the council is “to create and execute programs which serve the collective interests of the undergraduate population. ” According the Gupta, the cur-rent media organization funding system was not serving the “collective interests. ” Still, if he could do it again, he’ d have done it differently. 
“If I were to go back with the knowledge I have now, 
I probably wouldn’t have had such an extensive freeze on media-org funding, ” said Gupta. “I wouldn’t have let it go on for so long. ”
According to presidential candidate and Sixth College 
Senator John Condello, who is a vocal supporter of free speech, the media freeze was a well-intentioned reflex. 
“He’s a smart guy, ” said Condello. “He doesn’t do any-
thing without knowing months in advance. The only reac-tionary move that I’ve seen him take is the media freeze. ”
After the media freeze caused additional uproar, Gupta hosted a public forum that was largely attended by mem-bers of the A.S. Council, the Black Student Union and vari-ous media organizations. The forum resulted in the cre-ation of two committees (the second replacing the first) to discuss media funding and free speech. In the end, because the second committee voted 5-13-5 against a government speech model proposed by VP Finance Peter Benesch, the media freeze was mandatorily lifted at the end of the A.S. Council’s last meeting, as stipulated by the council’s stand-ing rules. 
“There should be some discretion involved in funding 
media organizations beyond a fixed set, if that makes sense, which is why I was advocating for the hybrid [government speech model] approach, ” Gupta said.
Still, for many media organizations, Gupta’s misstep 
damaged their confidence in the A.S. President to make decisions on behalf of the student body. 
“I’m hoping I can work to rebuild some of that trust 
again, ” said Gupta. “I didn’t do some sort of backhanded committee process to try and get specific legislation passed — everything was out in the open; I wanted media orgs to be part of the process. I’m hoping as the emotionality of the situation dies down, people will be able to see the specific realities of what happened versus what’s being presented or misrepresented. ”
After deciding to run again for re-election, he’s focusing 
much of his campaign on continuing the projects he start-ed this year — namely returning Sun God Festival to its all-campus format and bringing Division-I football to UCSD. He’s also added collectivizing high education in San Diego in order to educate regional politicians about UCSD’s eco-nomic benefits (so as to prevent tuition-increasing legisla-tion), protect Shuttle Services from coercing council into a student fee referendum, keeping Geisel Library open late and looking into Greek and student leadership housing in his new campaign. 
According to Gupta, uncaging Sun God Festival has 
been a gradual process that — as expected — has met a lot of opposition. Though he’s brought back the Junkyard Derby to Library Walk as well as college council events during the day, he says he was prevented from bringing back student organization booths to Library Walk by the VP Student Life, AVP Concert & Events and AVP Student Organizations as well as Vice Chancellor of Student Life Gary Ratcliff “who waited until it was too late to change the direction of the booths. ”
6,1(N
%5(11(5RYA N
'+,//21TAN
9,5*,/,2JOSEPH
Marshall College junior Tan Dhillon 
is quick to describe himself as “the Indian guy who isn’t Utsav. ” And with a collection of campaign promises aimed at rewiring how student government works at UCSD, he apparently aims to make this distinction 
very clear. 
Both Dhillon and Utsav Gupta — the 
current A.S. president now making a bid for a second term — have a year of experience as executives. As chair of the Thurgood Marshall College Student Council, however, Dhillon finds himself at the head of a con-siderably smaller governing body. While TMCSC’s budget is $90,000 a year, the A.S. President oversees roughly $3 million in student fees.
But the frightening prospect of cam-
puswide governance hasn’t slowed Dhillon down at all. In his independent run for the council’s top position, he has worked to define himself from his pack of opponents — several of them seasoned A.S. insiders — by preaching empowerment, administrative accountability and unity. He’s even taking a few well-aimed shots at Gupta — an easy target, but an effective one nonetheless.
“Utsav hasn’t been working on unifying 
the council, ” Dhillon said. “There’s a lot of division that hasn’t been addressed. ” 
Dhillon’s vision takes him far beyond 
the confines of the council’s internal har-mony as ell. As president, he pledges to combat the unfortunate nature of “campus monopolies” such as dining-dollar require-ments, which Dhillon said lock students into paying dramatically inflated prices for food on campus. He said wants to end the abuse and play the empowerment card by overhauling dining package options and changing all dining dollars to Triton Cash — a move that would allow students greater spending flexibility and more eateries to 
choose from.
Though the promise is enticing, 
Dhillon has yet to work out the details with 
Housing, Dining and Hospitality Services. Given that the department could lose a substantial chunk of income by adopting 
the plan, Dhillon would face a rough battle 
if elected. 
“I do understand there is a strong oppo-
sition, ” he said. “But what is the university here for? The university is here for the nior and A.S. 
Wafa Ben Hassine is 
Council meetings 
— from the Revelle 
tudent Affirmative 
e Muslim Student 
dio, the Sustainability 
CSD Commute 
he considers this 
student life to have 
he other presidential 
ome appreciation of 
er.”
ome fellow council -
e’s heap of interests 
edule they create — 
ty to fufill the respon-
he A.S. Council.
ciate Vice President 
ons Andrew Ang, 
of the Student 
Advisory Board, 
m the end of last 
arter — but eventu -
r she continually 
senator, she repre -
ity on this campus 
f those committees, 
representing them in 
g said. “I think that’s 
ery honest of her 
ollow through with 
going to represent the 
nsfer Senator Adam 
Ang’s argument.
d criticism, it’s a valid 
Powers said. “I don’t 
udent leader run -
letely overburdened 
hink that the mark 
ow well you function 
at all of us have. And 
he’s been able to pay 
commitments and do 
th Ben Hassine on the 
Act Coalition, which 
te legislators to pass 
ple majority. Although 
itiative failed, the 
nded by Ben Hassine Last year, Muir College senior August 
Ryan Brenner held a Seder for his friends — complete with matza and karpas — to “raise cultural awareness” as his friend Doug Rosen put it. Brenner isn’t Jewish. The point of the party was just to bring people together.
Brenner, a San Mateo native who 
goes by Ryan, started his college career at UC Santa Cruz but transferred to UCSD because it was better for his chemical engi-neering major. Now in his second year at UCSD, this Village resident has taken a new interest in campus politics — albeit in the most lighthearted sense possible.
According to Brenner, most of the other 
candidates for A.S. president are far more qualified, and he doesn’t have much chance of winning. 
“I talked to my friend in class and 
he said, ‘Y ou should run for president, ’” Brenner said. “I woke up the next day, had a research meeting, got out at 9 a.m., picked up a candidate packet, got 150 signatures and turned in the packet by 11 a.m. ” 
Brenner’s only political experience to 
date is an office aide position he held dur-ing his senior year of high school. But he abused those privileges, and — as punish-ment for getting students out of class with office passes — Brenner was forced to read the school announcements. He was then kicked out of that position a week before graduation, after he badmouthed a certain teacher over the loudspeaker.
If elected, Brenner said his top priorities 
will be allowing students to start organiza-tions at any time of the year and improving UCSD’s parking nightmare. 
According to Brenner, faculty ‘ A ’ spots 
should be moved across campus and more ‘B’ spots should be changed to ‘S’ spots to benefit students. He’s also angered by the 
fact that campus employees have to buy 
their own parking permits. 
“They’re employed by the campus and 
spend 500 of their hard-earned dollars every year to work here, ” Brenner said. “If I could do something about changing that, I 
would. I’ d find out about it from a qualified 
person — if I’m somehow able to win. ”
A firm advocate of free speech, Brenner 
said he doesn’t agree with current A.S. President Utsav Gupta’s Winter Quarter Almost every year, the A.S. presiden-
tial election has its maverick. Either he’s a Koala  affiliate advocating more beer 
and partying, or a highly uninformed sacrificial lamb looking to bitch about the system.
But Joe Virgilio falls somewhere 
in between. The Muir College senior believes the answer to accomplishing anything and everything is to get rid of all these goddamn committees and “just do it” — though he’s often clueless to what that something is. (He’s also been cited lurking around the Koala office once or 
twice.)
Accordingly, it’s often hard to tell if 
Virgilio’s joking. At the A.S. presidential debate in Price Center Plaza on Friday, he addressed the audience awkwardly, with squinty eyes and trailing anti-slogans. When asked about how he might go about improving student life, he struggled with a couple incomplete thoughts and eventually concluded: “The students tell you what they want, and then you just do it. ” When the conversation entered the land of acronyms, he grabbed the micro-phone to say he was “sort of at a loss of what everybody’s talking about. ”
Though Virgilio has never been to an 
A.S. Council meeting, he maintains that he hates it regardless. Too many commit-tees. Too much talking. Too many people. Not enough action.
He’s especially not a fan of A.S. 
President Utsav Gupta, who is currently running for re-election. Virgilio claimed Gupta has not done anything during his presidency this year.
“I voted for him last year, you know, 
and it [seemed] like this guy would actu-ally do things, and he didn’t — I mean, not that I [noticed], ” Virgilio said in an interview. “Utsav just seems like a rich kid. He’s kind of smug. I don’t like him. ”
Gupta, who was stifling laughter 
throughout the debate on Friday, did say later that Virgilio provides a valuable dia-logue about the perspective of the average student.
Among Virgilio’s goals are keeping 
the library open, giving shuttles more 
funding, giving the co-ops more money, 
building a giant radio tower atop of KSDT 
&217,18('213$*( &217,18('213$*( &217,18('213$*(
3$*(&217,18('213$*(10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN  MONDAY , APRIL 5, 2010  FOCUS
decision to freeze the funds of student 
media organizations in response to the actions of humor newspaper the Koala. Though he said he finds much of the content published in the Koala to be vulgar, Brenner made it clear that the students involved have the right to say whatever they want.
“What’s the harm? If you don’t want 
to read it, don’t read it, ” Brenner said. “If you don’t like what it says, start a news-paper and write anti-Koala stuff. ”
According to Brenner, both his big-
gest challenge and accomplishment at UCSD is waking up in the morning. A typical week for Brenner includes going to “80 percent” of his classes, hanging out with friends and doing his homework. 
 “He’s really everywhere on campus, 
having a good time, and bringing people together, ” said Eleanor Roosevelt College senior Douglas Rosen, who is Brenner’s friend of four years. 
Brenner’s strategy for victory is 
simple: make people smile. And as a ballsy conversationalist who likes out-door adventures and collecting interest-ing facts (about everything from cider to Passover), every once in a while he succeeds. 
“Ryan is a positive experience every 
time, ” Rosen said. “He always makes everyone his friend. No one is upset meeting Ryan Brenner; he transcends his college. He makes six colleges one university. ”
At UCSD, Brenner participates in the 
Tae Kwon Do Club and is a member of the Slavic Student Union.
After graduation, though, Brenner 
said he doesn’t want a lab job. Instead, he’s aiming to be James Bond or conduct research on aliens. 
“I’m pretty 100-percent confident 
that aliens exist somewhere in the uni-verse, ” Brenner said. “Whether they’re here on this planet is a very small pos-sibility. ” 
Brenner says he’s “pretty 100 percent 
confident” that aliens exits and that through more advanced, futuristic tech-nology, it might be possible to find other life forms similar to humans, or that 
Planned Parenthood
Mission Bay Parker Center4501 Mission Bay Drive, #1C&DSan Diego, CA 92109
N
EW
SI-5La Jolla Village Dr.UCSD
Garnet Ave.
Think you missed the boat on the
HPV vaccine?
Think Again
If you didn’t get the Gardasil vaccine as part 
of your childhood immunizations, it’s not too 
late. Planned Parenthood now offers free or 
low-cost Gardasil for women who want to 
significantly reduce their risk of getting 
HPV, the leading cause of cervical cancer.
To make an appointment, 
call 1-888-743-7526 (PLAN)
or visit planned.org. 
Se Habla Españolstudents. HDH is not functioning in the 
students’ best interest, and that needs to be changed. ”
Dhillon’s quest to stand up for the 
little guy — or, the student body — will take him to even greater heights. After spending a significant amount of time working with residential security officers during his time as a resident advisor, Dhillon is markedly disillu-sioned with how officers treat students. 
“RSOs prey on the fact that stu-
dents don’t know their rights, and just barge in, ” he said. “They’re overly aggressive, and it’s unacceptable. ” 
To combat the perceived abuse, 
Dhillon said he aims to create a cam-puswide awareness campaign to edu-cate students about their on-campus rights from day one, and one to pro-vide feedback on RSOs. If they can write us up, we should be able to write them up, according to Dhillon. If he’s elected, RSOs may soon find them-selves subject to review by the students they are paid to keep an eye on.
This push for student rights is 
hardly a campaign tactic. Throughout his term as TMCSC Chair, Dhillon has actively pursued new avenues for students to voice their opinions on campus matters. When he learned that Marshall’s main administrative com-mittees — the executive committee, the curriculum committee and the DOC committee — held no student positions, Dhillon wrote letters to the Marshall administration demanding that students be represented on the committees. He also insisted that rep-resentatives not be selected by admin-istrators. 
Like many candidates, Dhillon has 
also jumped in line with supporters of a plan to extend Geisel Library’s oper-ating hours. But if that doesn’t work, he has a backup plan: convert Price Center East into a versatile, always-open study space by adding more power outlets to accommodate laptops.  
But not everyone agrees that 
Dhillon’s experience and approach to leadership are what the university needs.
“I think Tan’s a nice guy, ” said 
presidential candidate and Sixth College Senator John Condello. “But I think he demonstrated last night [at the ERC debates] in one of his quotes that he’s not able to lead when he said, ‘Sometimes I think a leader needs to take a backseat role and know when to follow. ’ I think that’ d be great if he was running for a senator position. ”
Gupta echoed Condello’s concerns.“He has experience being a college 
council chair, but there’s no relation between being a college council chair and A.S. President. ”
However, Dhillon said students 
can rely on his drive and selflessness. His passion for student life at UCSD, according to Dhillon, is directly influ-enced by the lessons he took away from his upbringing. After two of Dhillon’s family members passed away from heart failure, he said he realized how much he wanted to help people.
“It’s not about the prestige — it’s 
about helping people, having a direct interaction and seeing a change, ” he said. “People always say you have to aim high to reach high, and I want to do both. ” 
— $<(/(7%,7721
SENIOR STAFF WRITER'+,//21IURPSDJH
%5(11(5IURPSDJH
radio and installing more benches around campus.
“I want to see more benches. 
There’s a lot of walking and there’s no benches anywhere, ” Virgilio said. “This really upsets me, actually. It might be my priority number one. ”
The benches, Virgilio said, would 
allow him to avoid more public seat-ing areas. Needless to say, he isn’t much of a people person. Ever since he transferred to UCSD in Winter 2009, Virgilio said he’s had trouble adjust-ing. He’s uncomfortable around large crowds, and on-campus organizations aren’t really his thing.
“I had really bad anxiety, and I 
know a lot of other students that have anxiety when they come here as trans-fer students, ” he said. “It’s like, crip-pling, almost; there are so many people and it’s just like, you don’t want to go to class, you don’t want to go to school even. I’ve overcome that. ”
— &211,(4,$1
STAFF WRITER9,5*,/,2IURPSDJHcommittee. It detailed a “government speech model, ” which would allow the council to fund only the student press that reflected its own values. Condello had fire in his eyes.
“We should talk about why this is 
bad legislation, ” Condello said at the meeting. “It is sketchy as hell — we agreed that there was going to be no PowerPoints. ” [There is] a lot of back-stabbing through the whole thing. ”
Stacy Sluys, editor in chief of Sixth 
College newspaper the Sixth Sense — formerly staffed by Gupta and Condello — said she sees Condello’s passion as an attribute. However, Sixth College President Brian Ng said the senator’s emotional investment in issues can some-times alienate other councilmembers.
“I think his passion — as much as it 
is his strength — can often sometimes be his weakness, ” Ng said. “He can some-times be too impassioned in debates. ”
Condello agreed that his debating 
style can be overly aggressive, but said that when it comes to collaboration, he remains level-headed.
“I’m OK with that as long you can 
work with people after, ” Condello said. “Everybody makes mistakes. ”
If elected, Condello said he hopes to 
make the A.S. Council more transparent by talking to students individually. 
“Drink a coke with me, let’s get some 
pizza together and let’s talk about what you need to see changed, ” Condello said. “Let’s work together and get it done. I don’t want to continue the self-imposed isolation that A.S. garnered over quite some time. ”
According to Ng, Condello has 
proven his ability to make student gov-ernment more accessible while working on the college level this year.
“He can definitely, and will, listen 
to a lot of students, ” Ng said. “ And that’s probably one of his greatest strengths: He has a charisma about him that a lot of people find very approachable. He understands students’ needs without the baggage that comes with being a part of student government for several years. I feel like sometimes folks can be very involved in student government but then often lose sight of what students’ values are. ”
Condello said he is equally invested in standing up to UCSD administrators, who are often antagonistic toward stu-dent interests.
“I don’t think that they’re some kind 
of ultimate evil, ” Condello said. “I just think that what they see as the right thing to do is often very disparate from what the student sees as the right thing to do. ”
Last quarter, Condello was one of 
several councilmembers who faced prob-able impeachment due to 5.5 absences from council meetings, which are held every Wednesday night at 6 p.m. According to Gupta, that fact, along with his lack of experience, indicate that Condello isn’t prepared for the job.
“I think he made a lot of things 
personal against me, but I still really like him, ” said Gupta. “ Again, though, I’m worried about the experience issue: One year as senator, and he honestly hasn’t shown up to college meetings. He’s only started speaking up in the last bit of the year where elections are starting up. ”
According to Condello, he collected 
a large amount of absences because of a class conflict. He added that he missed several more meetings because he was hospitalized due to a knee injury and respiratory distress from mono.
Last Friday, Condello did not attend 
the noontime A.S. presidential debate in Price Center Plaza. According to Condello, he didn’t attend the debate due to a migraine, a problem he’s had since he was a child.
As students vote on TritonLink this 
week, Condello said he plans to dive headfirst into his campaign, which was delayed by his recent recovery period from mono.
“It’s going to be a Blitzkrieg kind 
of campaign for [this] week, ” Condello said. “[It’s] going to be a firestorm of me advertising. ”
If elected, Condello said that, though 
his brutal honesty may make some uncomfortable, protecting his ideals and the interests of students will come first.  
“Ultimately, I care more about the 
right thing than about making people like me happy, ” Condello said. “That’s why I can never be a professional politi-cian — because I’ d piss [off] too many peop le .”
— 5(*,1$,3
SENIOR STAFF WRITER&21'(//2IURPSDJHFOCUS MONDAY , APRIL 5, 2010  THE UCSD GUARDIAN 11 
Your Summer, Your Future… Stepping Forward!
     An easy drive to advance your future.
   Over 450 classes this summer!
Online enrollment begins April 12!
UCR Summer Sessions 2010
www.summer .ucr .edu
4
Expires 4/30/10 Prints22
one GOAL one CHOICE
You can be a working  
nurse by August 2011
Earn your Bachelor of Science in Nursing 
(BSN) degree from Creighton University School of Nursing in just 12 months with  our Accelerated Nursing Program. 
ACCELERATED NURSING PROGRAM
s  An intensive program of study that 
condenses a four-year program into 
one full year
s  Enables a college graduate with a 
baccalaureate degree to earn a BSN 
degree in 12 monthsTRADITIONAL NURSING PROGRAM
s  Students are admitted directly into the 
Creighton University School of Nursing 
and need not reapply once accepted
s  Take a broad range of classes in 
various disciplines and receive a 
comprehensive education in nursing
Erron Holland
(800) 544-5071 
nursing@creighton.eduCreighton University School of Nursing 2500 California Plaza Omaha, Nebraska 68178 http://nursing.creighton.eduThere are still openings for qualiﬁed students for the Fall 
2010 semester. Apply online or contact Creighton today. For more information, call or email: — recruited over 30 volunteers and gath-
ering hundreds of signatures.
Ben Hassine said she will drop all 
other commitments if she is voted into the presidency.
“I made a decision that if I get elected 
as president, I’m not doing anything else. And if I don’t [get elected], I’m going to focus on just one org. ” 
According to Ben Hassine, her big-
gest priority as president would be to institutionalize student activism.
“I feel like activism, the word, [is 
taken] to mean somebody holding a pole or flier or something — but that’s not what it means to me, ” she said. “It just means doing something with a purpose. ”
For the candidates on Students First 
— the slate Ben Hassine created this year — this “purpose” is achieving access and affordability at UCSD.
“Usually, it’s always this fringe group 
of people that are protesting, that are talking to legislators, ” Ben Hassine said. “Every person has a different role, and I feel like students need to utilize that unique role to collectively work for a more affordable education. ”
Ben Hassine also considers campus 
sustainability a number one priority, evi-denced by her work with One Earth One Justice — which brought Fair Trade on campus and made steps toward taking the UCSD Bookstore sweatshop-free by convincing administrators to discontinue the sale of Russell sportswear.
Along with the habit of spreading 
herself too thin, councilmembers have said Ben Hassine has a tendency to rep-resent and advocate for specific groups and issues — a potential detriment to representing the student body as a whole.
“Being opinionated is her hardest 
shortfall, ” Vice President of Student Life Ricsie Hernandez said. “She doesn’t take time to talk to other people about their views. Being opinionated about one thing is completely detrimental to the whole student population. ” 
Hernandez appointed Ben Hassine 
to the Housing and Dining Committee, and said she performed well there (Ben Hassine was the only committee member to vote against the recent hike in housing and dining fees). However, Hernandez said she doubts the senator’s ability to adapt to the much broader role and reach of A.S. president. 
“I think there are better choices for 
president who have good attendance records and are open to all ideas, and could represent the entire student popu-lation instead of focusing on specific groups, ” Hernandez said.
UCSD College Democrats President 
Victor Lin — who worked with Ben Hassine on the CDAC — disagreed.
“She’s an all-campus senator, ” Lin 
said. “ And take a look at her work on the [CDAC] — that affects all students. … It’s good to see someone so passionate about non-trivial things. It’s refreshing. ”
Ben Hassine stressed that her broad 
focus on access, affordability and sustain-ability does not mean she will ignore the more lighthearted aspects of student life.
“I want to personally assure everyone 
that I love to party and that I really, really do support student life on this campus, and I do think it is the one answer to healing UCSD after all that happened with the protests and whatnot — bring-ing everyone together regardless of race or ethnicity, ” Ben Hassine said. “Even if maybe I focus on the budget cuts too much or whatever, I feel that it’s well-placed because it’s about time students are aware of these issues, and it’s about time they also spend their money sus-tainably. ” 
Ben Hassine has been especially 
vocal about her opposition to pursuing a football team — one of current A.S. President Utsav Gupta’s key campaign promises.
“I understand football is cool, but it 
costs $1.5 million just to get it started, ” Ben Hassine said. “Do you know what we could do with $1.5 million for our students other than just a football team? It’s not responsible to propose that right n o w.”
Ben Hassine defended her view of 
UCSD students as “global citizens. ”
“I always hear things like, ‘Oh, you 
have an external edge, ’ or, ‘Y ou focus so much on the VP of External Affairs, ’ or, ‘Y ou care too much about people outside of UCSD, so you can’t work for UCSD students, ’” Ben Hassine said. “But I feel like, as A.S. president, I would need to work for students at UCSD but not negatively affect the world around us. We can’t be completely ignorant of the outside world. We can’t. It’s completely irresponsible. We have such privilege to be here. ”
— $35,//(086&$5$
ASSOCIATE FOCUS EDITOR%(1+$66,1(IURPSDJH
The A.S. Presidency, Gupta says, can 
be time-devouring — consuming any-where from “30 hours on a good week to 80 hours a week on a bad week” — it’s something he’s worked his entire senior year to make the most of. 
Though Gupta has been criticized 
by his fellow candidates for proposing to start a football team funded by student fees, he believes that the student body should be able to vote on the matter.
“He stuck to his promises — he has 
a large staff, he created a committee to look into all his campaign promises, ” said AVP of Student Organizations Andrew Ang. “But I believe that they were start-ed, and not fully completed in the term he said they would be completed in. ”
The way Gupta sees it, aiming high 
shouldn’t be something candidates avoid.
“I think an advantage I’ve had is I’ve 
been able to specifically state what I want to do — I think it was something that differentiated me last year, ” Gupta said. “My platforms have always been very ambitious and I think it was my largest criticism levied against me, but I think a lot of it can be achieved. ”
Much of the reason Gupta has con-crete ways to accomplish things, is due to his knowledge of the bureaucracy within A.S. Council and the administration, said VP Finance and friend Peter Benesch.
“Even if you ignore the fact that he 
was A.S. president for the last year, he literally has knowledge that no other candidate does — absolutely no other candidate, ” Benesch said. “If you ask any other candidate, ‘How do you do x?’ They might give you an answer but it’ll probably be B.S. because, in all honesty, knowing how to do things is the most crucial thing to being a president in stu-dent government. ” 
*837$IURPSDJH12 THE UCSD GUARDIAN  MONDAY , APRIL 5, 2010  FOCUS
	

    "  
#"!!!""
# # !"# 	 
	 !      !   www.businessol.com 		


	


Are you seeking a career in marketing? 
SPECIALOFFER
Sculpt Fusion Yoga
4639 Carmel Mountain Rd. #102 San Diego, CA 9213
.+.$*,'$&/.&mmm$iYkbfj\ki_edoe]W$Yec8[d[\_jie\ekh>[Wj[ZOe]W
<H;;D;MJEOE=7MEHAI>EFI- enhances flexibility
- tones muscles- burns caloriespowerful body – peaceful mind
5Carmel Mtn. Rd.
Carmel Valley Rd.
12 Minutes
from UCSD!- releases stress
- prevents injury- improves concentration
#WdZckY^ceh[- detoxifies the body- promotes sleep
$59UNLIMITED
7KJEF7OC;C8;HI>?FI
<eh7fh_bEDBOCkijfh[i[djYekfedSTUDENT SPECIAL - APRIL 2010
,I\RXKDYHEHHQVHOHFWHGIRUYHULILFDWLRQ
FRPSOHWH DQG VXEPLW \RXU YHULILFDWLRQ
ZRUNVKHHWIHGHUDOWD[UHWXUQVDQGRU
RWKHULQIRUPDWLRQE\WKHMAY 1stGHDGOLQH
7REHFRQVLGHUHGIRUWKHEHVWILQDQFLDODLG
SDFNDJH \RX PXVW KDYH VXEPLWWHG \RXU
)$)6$E\ 0DUFK DQGVXEPLWDOOPLVVLQJ
GRFXPHQWVDQGRUFOHDUDOOSURFHVVLQJKROGVE\
WKH0D\VWGHDGOLQH$SSOLFDWLRQVFRPSOHWHG
DIWHUWKHGHDGOLQH :,//127EHFRQVLGHUHGIRU
8QLYHUVLW\ JUDQWV 6(2* )HGHUDO:RUN 6WXG\
8QLYHUVLW\RU3HUNLQV/RDQV¬
FINANCIAL AID
DEADLINE
You should also meet the May 1st deadline for 
documents and processing holds in the event funds 
become available for late FAFSA filers.If you haven’t completed the 2010-11 FAFSA 
yet, you should do so as soon as possible.  You 
may use the online application at
ZZZIDIVDHGJRY0$<So, looking for a fresh (and hopefully more 
popular) pitch, McEuen talked with friend and 
Associate Vice President of Student Orgs Andrew Ang about creating the Tritons First slate. From there, they started recruiting running mates. 
“We started picking people — what I think is 
the best of the best, ” McEuen said. “Everyone on our slate has experience. They are not just random people who want to get involved. ”
Even if he doesn’t win the presidential race this 
year, McEuen said he believes the Tritons First slate — his “biggest accomplishment” — will live on.
Indeed, McEuen runs the party like a machine: 
Every last campuswide senator recites the “Create! Empower! Restore!” catchphrase like it was mentally programmed, and it’s hard to traverse Library Walk without stumbling over a shiny Tritons First flier.
“I hope it’s not just a flash in the pan, ” he said. 
“It’s supposed to be a lot more than that. ”
Eleanor Roosevelt College Senior and fel-
low Lambda Chi Alpha member Dan Driver said McEuen is “a breath of fresh air. ” 
 “Brian always has a smile on his face, and is a 
good person to look to when you need a calm and levelheaded point of view, ” Driver said. 
McEuen said this affinity toward creating togeth-
erness is what sets him apart from current A.S. President Gupta, who is running for a second term.
“Utsav is a very smart person, ” McEuen said. “I 
would bet my bottom dollar that he knows more about the rest of this campus than the rest of the student body. But he hasn’t really brought the coun-cil together at all, and that’s one of the main things I want to work on. ” 
McEuen said his ability to facilitate constructive 
conversation — something the current president has not proven to be his strong point — is one of the most important attributes of an executive in chief.
“The president might not have the best ideas, 
but he needs to be the best at getting people to come forward with those ideas, ” he said.
Even independent candidate Condello recog-
nized McEuen as one of the council’s most reliable mediators. Condello, who has a reputation for being confrontational during meetings, has expressed interest in appointing McEuen as his chief of staff, if elected, as a voice in his ear to keep him “in check. ”
In response to McEuen’s candidacy, Gupta said 
he’s worried that McEuen has almost no track record of personal accomplishments on council.
“The main thing that worries me about [Brian] 
is that he hasn’t actually accomplished any projects over the two years that he’s been on A.S. — aside from the collaborative things like the A.S. referen-dum, ” Gupta said. “But I can’t really tell you what he’s done throughout the year or what he stands for. ”
Another one of McEuen’s main priorities, if 
elected, is to rein in A.S. spending.
“My biggest problem with the way A.S. is run, 
for the two years I’ve been on council, is that they waste money, ” McEuen said. He said he will urge councilmembers to pay more attention to where their money’s going, and recruit more moneymak-ing events like concerts on campus and ultimately lower council dependence on student activity fees.
McEuen said he is also dissatisfied with the red 
tape involved in the process by which A.S. senators request A.S. funding for their individual projects.
“We have to beg council on our hands and 
knees, ” McEuen said. “The way that the budget’s drafted — the way our system works right now — there are so many loops you have to jump through to get money. That shouldn’t be the case. It’s the students’ money, not A.S. ’s money. ”
Although he is a self-proclaimed Arizona 
Cardinals fan, McEuen’s stance on a potential UCSD football team aligns with his conservative views on spending (It’s a talking point that aligns almost identically with that of presidential candidate Wafa Ben Hassine, leader of Students First, the election’s only other large slate. )
“It’s a little bit of an insult to injury if we are 
asking our students to pay for a football team when students already have to leave the school because they can’t pay for an education, ” McEuen said.
McEuen has called his exit from the UCSD vol-
leyball team a “blessing in disguise. ” Still, his intense involvement with the A.S. Council can sometimes become a strain alongside academics, he said.
“I wasn’t super involved in high school, so it’s 
hard for me to balance everything, ” McEuen said. “It’s a challenge I still face. ”
— =2(623+26
STAFF WRITER0&(8(1IURPSDJH
BELLA BRAZIL
1761 Garnet Avenue in Pacific Beach858.964.510920%OFF
BRAZILIAN WAX
with a UCSD Student IDADVANCED SKINCARE
& WAXING SERVICES
www.BellaBrazilSpa.comART
Open Studios 2010 - The UC San 
Diego visual arts graduate student body invites the public into their creative space. Visitors will have the opportunity to view open studios, a group exhibit, ongoing film screenings, live performances, and symposia all in one day. Visual Arts Facility / 3-8pmSaturday Apr 10
CULTURE
UC San Diego’s 32nd Annual Cultural Celebration  - Music, 
dance, food, and art from around the world. Children’s activities. Free parking. Info: marshall.ucsd.edu or (858) 534-4390. Thurgood Marshall College / 10am-4pm / Free
RECREATION
Sherlock Holmes - Price Center Theatre / 6&9pm / Student $3; Regular $5CAMPUS CALENDAR  MONDAY , APRIL 5, 2010  THE UCSD GUARDIAN 13
Roma    Nights
Roma    Nights
80’S NIGHT 
Saturday, April 10 • 8pm
The Loft • FREE
Wednesday, April 7  
8:30pm • Porter’s Pub • Free
universitycenters.ucsd.eduThis
 WeekWEEK 2
Price Center and Student Center
DID YOU HEAR  
ABOUT THE MORGANS?
Tuesday, April 6
6 & 9pm • Price Center Theater
$3 Students / $5 G eneral
DVC 
Friday, April 9 • 1 - 4pmRound Table Patio • FREE
Monday, April 5 ✴ 8pm
Espresso Roma ✴ Free featuring
         Shoddy      
Sean & the         
   Theocracy
AVATAR 
Thurs. & S at., April 8 & 10
6 & 9pm • Price Center Theater
$3 Students / $5 G eneralMonday Apr 5
CAREER
Job Fair Prep  - Learn how to 
approach employers, what 
questions to ask and how to make a great first impression. Career Advisors will be available for resume critiques following the workshop. Career Services Center, Horizon Room / 12-1pm / Free
Resume Critiquing Marathon 
- Polish up your one-pager with our advisors. Learn how you can make your resume more effective in today’s job market. No sign-up needed, just bring your resume! Career Services Center, Horizon Room / 1:30-3:30pm / FreeTuesday Apr 6W eek of 4/05 - 4/11
CAREER
PROSPECT Connect  - Interested 
in international affairs? Featuring a lecture on the Impact of US Foreign Policy on Human Trafficking in India presented by Florence Middleton. Great Hall / 7:30-9pm / Free
Obtaining an Internship - Learn 
strategies for searching internship and part-time job listings to find positions that will meet your goals. Career Services Center, Horizon Room / 12-1:15pm / Free
Communicating Across Gender 
Differences - This workshop will explore the ways in which men and women communicate through the use of activities and dialogue. Presented by Brett Robertson, 
Intergroup Relations Program. Price Center West Red Shoe Room / 1-2pm / Free
LECTURE
M2P (The Means to Protect): Understanding what Shortens Genocidal Violence  - Within 
this lecture, Christian Davenport will examine what reduces the duration of large-scale, state-sponsored mass killing. ERC Room 115 / 12-1:30pm / Free
RECREATION
Y ou at the Loft: Open Mic Night - The Loft / 8pm / Free
Roma Nights presents Sean 
Gregory and Theo  - Espresso 
Roma / 8pm / FreeAssociated Students is preparing for the 2010-2011 school year with the upcoming A.S. Elections, where students will have a chance to shape the future of the UCSD community by voting for representatives for various positions within Associated Students. Vote this week!CAREER
MBA: Preparing for and Applying to Business School - Learn how to prepare for an MBA program and what admissions committees require, and desire, in applicants.  Find out about the GMAT and how to write your application essay. Career Services Center, Horizon Room / 3-4:30pm / Free
Effective Presentation Skills for 
International Students - Whether you are presenting research or preparing a poster session, this interactive session will provide you with the tools to speak confidently and prepare professional presentations. Ida and Cecil Green Faculty Club / 2-3pm / Free
CULTURE
Cesar E. Chavez Kickoff Luncheon - UC San Diego's opening event includes an award ceremony honoring a San Diego community member and a UCSD alum and staff member for furthering César Chávez's ideals in their lives. Suggested donation is $5; proceeds benefit MEChA's Raza Graduation. International Center / 11:30am-1:30pm
Peace Corps - Learn how to prepare 
for an MBA program and what admissions committees require, and desire, in applicants.  Find out Thursday Apr 8
about the GMAT and how to write your application essay. Career Services Center, Horizon Room / 12-1:30pm / Free
LECTURE
New Writing Series Presents Alberto Blanco  - Blanco is 
considered one of Latin America’s outstanding poets. Jerome Rothenberg is an internationally known poet. Both will be reading at UCSD. Geisel Library, Seuss Room / 4:30pm / Free
RECREATION
Harvard Beats Yale 29-29 (2008) - The film intercuts original footage with the hilarious, suspenseful recollections of the 50 men who played in what has become one of college football’s most famous games. The Loft / 8pm / Student $5 Adv, PAYC Door; General $8
Avatar  - Price Center Theatre / 
6&9pm / Student $3; General $5Muir Musical Ensemble Presents 
Seussical the Musical - Through 
April 10. Don’t miss this years Musical production of beloved Dr. Seuss characters Horton and all of Whoville! Mandeville Center / 8pm / Student $9; Faculty / Staff $10; General $11
CAREER
Obtaining an Internship - Learn strategies for searching internship and part-time job listings to find positions that will meet your goals. Career Services Center, Horizon Room / 12-1:15pm / Free
Career Peer Educator Program 
Info Session  - Get extensive 
hands-on training and experience while developing advising, communication, and presentations skills, in addition to leadership and teamwork experience. Career Services Center, Horizon Room / 11am-12pm / FreeFriday Apr 9
On-Camera Practice Interview - Respond to actual interview questions while being videotaped, receive immediate feedback, and build your confidence in this small group setting. *Sign-up required. Register through Port Triton. Round Room / 10am-12pm / Free
80’s Night - Come groove at the 
Loft. Bring all of your friends to have a great night out dancing to music from a decade that was so cool, you might have even been born during it. The Loft / 8pm / Free
Avatar  - Price Center Theatre / 
6&9pm / Student $3; General $5Career Peer Educator Program 
Info Session - Get extensive hands-on training and experience while developing advising, communication, and presentations skills, in addition to leadership and teamwork experience. Career Services Center, Horizon Room / 11am-12pm / Free
RECREATION
Did Y ou Hear About the Morgans? - Price Center Theatre 
/ 6&9pm / Student $3; General $5
ART
Curator Talk with Guillermo Santamarina  - Chief Curator at 
the Museum of Contemporary Art (MuAC) at the National Autonomous University of Mexico will talk about his exhibition entitled Transurbaniac as well as the artists represented in the MuAC's collection. Center Hall Room 212 / 6:30 / Free
CAREER
The Triton Spring Job & Internship Fair - Exclusively for UC San Diego students and alumni career plus subscribers, meet top companies recruiting for full-time, part-time, and internship positions. Bring your student ID, polish up that resume and dress for success! (career.ucsd.edu) PC Ballroom West / 10:30am-2:30pm / Free
Presentation Skills for Graduate 
Students - This interactive session will provide you with the tools to speak confidently and prepare professional presentations. Price Center, Green Table Room / 1-2pm / Free
 CULTURE 
That Sh!t Aint Funny: Minority Comedians & the Stage of Protest - This program will explore the ways in which comedians like Margaret  Cho and Chris Rock reconfigure stereotypes into tools of activism. Come with an open mind, and be ready to laugh - and to question why you are laughing. Cross Cultural Center Comunidad / 6pm / Free
RECREATION
Gretchen Parlato  - Resembling 
Frank Sinatra in terms of dynamics and subtone, or Chet Baker when it comes to cool, the musical sensitivity of Gretchen Parlato pushes the boundaries of the traditional role of a jazz singer. The Loft / 8pm / Student $5 Adv, PAYC Door; $16 General
HEALTH
Hare Krishna Weekly Lunch  - 
Come to the Student Center for vegetarian all-you-can-eat Hare Krishna lunch. Student Center Patio / 11am-1pm / $4
Farm2U  - The farm moves to a 
different college each Wednesday 
to present fresh and delicious seasonal produce and goods. Roger's Place and Market / 3:30-6:30pm
LECTURE
Building a Strong Legislature: The Opposition of the Provincial Deputation of Mexico to the Bicameral System, 1821-1823. Hosted with María José Garrido Asperó, Postdoctoral Fellow at the Center for U.S.-Mexican Studies. Open to the public. No admission fee. Institute of the Americas Complex, Deutz Room / 5pm / FreeWednesday Apr 7
RECREATION
Sleep - More than simply quick and cohesive are the syllables of Sleep, the stage name for hip-hop artist Chris Tafoya. The Loft / 8pm / Student $10; General $8Sunday Apr 11Guardian Classifieds are placed online and are FREE for UCSD. Low cost classified placements for our print 
edition are also available to the UCSD campus and the public at   ucsdguardian.campusave.com
Guardian Classifieds are placed online and are FREE for UCSD. Low cost classified placements for our print edition are also available to the UCSD campus and the public at   
ucsdguardian.campusave.comCLASSIFIEDS MONDAY, APRIL 5, 2010 14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN
Registration begins April 5.
Call: (800) 963-2250 ext. 60001 for more information.
  www.ccpe.csulb.edu/summer   email: summer@ccpe.csulb.edu
California State University, Long Beach 
College of Continuing and Professional EducationSummer Sessions
2010 at CSULB
No formal admission to CSULB required
Earn units toward your degree  •  Enroll on a “space available” basis
One 12-Week Session
June 1-August 20 (SSD)Two 6-Week Sessions
June 1-July 9 (S1S)
July 12-August 20 (S3S)
Lorinda Owens
5.95 in. x 5 in.UC San DiegoPub Date: 3/11/10 and 4/5/10A $2450
value
for only
$650! *
into your
career
ENROLL
TODAY!with a UCSD Extension CertificateUNDERGRADUATES
Now accepting
applications
for Spring
quarter!CERTIFICATES:
• Biotech  Manufacturing
• Business Analysis
• Clinical Trials Administra tion
• Financial Analysis
• Paralegal
• Project  Team  Management
• Quality Assurance/Control Specialist
• Regulatory Aﬀairs
• Sustainable B usiness Practi ces
• Technical Documenta tionExtension courses 
provide practical skills 
taught by instructors who 
currently work in their industry.   
extension.ucsd.edu/launch   |   launch@ucsd.edu    |   858.822.1460
LAUNCH is a program offered by UCSD Extension that enables UCSD Undergraduates to obtain a 
Specialized Certificate in one of a variety career fields at a reduced cost to the student.
* excludes Paralegal
    certificate
A $2450
value
for only
$650! *CAMPUS  LIFE
Local gay tennis organization seeks competitive gay 
tennis players for California Cup competition against SF and LA. Are you A, Open, 4.5+? Contact us for more information at: sdgaytennis@gmail.com. (4/8)
JOBS
Work as a Volunteer Intern in Peru with MOCHE this summer!   Spend a month working hands-on with local community members to improve health, sanita-tion, and local infrastructure. Work to bring medical care to the region, better daily lives, while protecting local archaeological sites and experiencing Peru’s unique history and culture.  Program dates are June 22 - July 23th.  http://www.savethemoche.org/sinsi-cap2010.html  M.O.C.H.E. (Mobilizing Opportunities through Community Heritage Empowerment) is a 501c3 non-profit organization dedicated to improv-ing local communities and preserving archaeological sites in rural Peru.  For more information and an application contact: Alicia Boswell, Project Director at boswell.alicia@gmail.com or Brian Billman, Founder of MOCHE at billman@savethemoche.org (4/5)
UCSD BLOOD DONOR ALLERGY STUDY: Subjects 
with current allergy symptoms to inhaled allergens (cat, grass, dust mite), needed as blood donors for research study requiring donation of blood and allergy skin testing. Will be reimbursed $100 for completion of two clinic visit study. Contact Dr. Broide, Department Medicine (858) 534-2033. (4/8)
BUSINESS/ ECONOMICS MAJORS. Princeton Review 
Internship-PAID $15-$20/HOUR.  Marketing/Sales. PART TIME POSITIONS Available. 619-569-9351 PLEASE LEAVE: Name/Number/University/Year/Major/The Guardian-UCSD (4/15)
Earn Extra Money Students needed ASAP . Earn 
up 
to $150 per day being a Mystery Shopper. No 
Experience Required. Call 1-800-722-4791 (4/26)Summer Day Camp Jobs : San Fernando & 
Conejo 
Valleys.  Counselors, Lifeguards, And Instructors 
for Gym, Horses, Arts & Crafts, Music & Much More! 
$3275-$3500+ /summer 888-784-CAMP www.wor-
katcamp.com (5/13)
L.A. AREA SUMMER DAY CAMPS Swimming, horses, 
sports, arts & crafts, beaches, ropes courses and 
more. Gain valuable experience working with children in a variety of fun camp 
settings. www.
daycampjobs.com (5/20)
SERVICES
Hair Cut Models Wanted.  $20 for a shampoo and 
cut. Includes tea and massage.  http://www.ter-rahairdesign.com/  Call 619-606-4146 
for more info.  
Ask for Sveta! (5/19)04/01 Sudoku Solutions
 Egg Donors Needed  We are seeking attractive 
women of all ethnicities under the age of 29   who are physically fit and maintain a healthy lifestyle. $15,000 plus all expenses. If you have a desire to help an infertile family please contact us.     Email: darlene@aperfectmatch.com 1-800-264-8828 www.aperfectmatch.com Perfectly matching 
donors with families since 1998  (5/6)     
Special Auto Insurance Programs for College 
Students - Call Toll free   1-877-451-4943 or instant 
online quotes at http://www.autoagency.com/students    Ken Donaldson Insurance 
Agency CA 
License 0E05617 (5/24)
Special Auto Insurance Discount Program for 
Educators and Professors, current or retired. Toll free 
1-877-451-4943 or instant online quotes at  http://
www.autoagency.com/educators   Ken Donaldson Insurance Agency   CA License 0E05617 (5/27)Crossword will return Monday, April 12SPORTS MONDAY , APRIL 5, 2010  THE UCSD GUARDIAN 15 
Contact us at:
800.721.8072
thechicagoschool.edu'RZQWRZQ/$,UYLQHDQG:HVWZRRGThe oldest and largest graduate
university of psychology is now inSouthern California. At The Chicago School, we offer you even more ways to put your passion to work and make an impact that matters. Visit us online to watch videos, read inspiring personal interviews, and learn about our award-winning programs and unique approach to training the world’s most respected and impactful psychology practitioners.Prepare 
to Make A Difference
0&("'(()(#" "')&  $&#&!'
0)  (!$&((!" &(#$(#"'0 ,  ''(!'((/(-#)&') 0#!$&"'*/"" ')$$#&(
'RFWRUDODQG0DVWHUV'HJUHHVDW
2XU6RXWKHUQ&DOLIRUQLD&DPSXVHV
Applied Behavior Analysis
&( "! -&$-Clinical Psychology
#&"''-# #-
Industrial and Organizational PsychologyBusiness Psychology$SSOLFDWLRQVQRZEHLQJDFFHSWHG
6FKRODUVKLSGHDGOLQHLV0D\L=DÉH
NDJG
9699N4CZZYhdbZ
fj^X`XVh]4
Now you can get big-time cash for your papers, 
lecture notes – even copies of last year’s tests!   “Ed the Brain”
School Daddy mascot   
To ﬁnd out how, just go to:  
College students have been going to T ommy’ s since 1946 for the 
greatest burger in L.A., possibily the world. If  you haven’t been 
to Original T ommy’ s World Famous Hamburgers you’ re missing 
a big part of  the college experience.
7415 Clairemont Mesa Blvd. www.originaltommys.comGive Us the Old College Try . WORLD FAMOUS HAMBURGERS
Camp  
Counselors 
Needed!  
Have a question, call us:  (858) 842-4900  
 Go online:  www.outpostsummercamps.com Outpost Summer Camps is a summer day camp located in 
Rancho Peñasquitos serving children from ages 3 to 14 
years old!     We are looking for college students who are responsible and  adventurous with a lot of enthusiasm for  making camp fun! Applyonlinetoday!
 
Come Join the Adventure! <ZIKS;\IZ[
8TW\8W[\[MI[WV;]KKM[[
Anderson’s time is among the top 
in Division-II this year, and he said 
he hopes he can push through to first place at the conference and national championships.
“My ultimate goal is to win nation-
als, ” he said. “I haven’t taken a confer-ence title yet, and that’s something I’ d really like to do. ”
The Cal/Nevada meet was an over-
all success for the Tritons: The women placed sixth and the men 10th, against some of the top programs on the West Coast. UCSD had the top Division-II squad for both men and women.
Most of the team will head to the 
highly competitive Pomona-Pitzer Invitational on April 10, although some runners will head to the UCLA Rafer Johnson/Jackie Joyner-Kersee Invitational on the same day. 
Readers can contact Liam Rose at 
lfrose@ucsd.edu.▶ TRACK & FIELD, MYVTWHNL
WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG/SPORTS
;87:<;MONDAY , APRIL 5, 2010
The freshman hit homeruns in both of UCSD’s wins in 
their series split with Cal State Dominguez Hills from April 2 to April 3. She finished five-for-twelve from the plate and knocked in 12 RBIs.
+76<)+<<0--,1<7:" sports@ucsdguardian.org16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN 
HOTCORNER
¹QUOTABLE QUIPS
I’m tired of hearing about money, 
money, money, money, money. I just want to play the game, drink Pepsi, wear Reebok.”
SHAQUILLE O’NEAL
NBA SUPERSTARKATIE BELANGER  | SOFTBALL
By Liam Rose
Senior Staff Writer
TRACK AND FIELD —  Right in the thick of 
season play, the Tritons got the a perfect chance 
to test their depth and flexibility: a small, friendly invite close to home.
UCSD track and field competed in the second 
annual Mangrum Invitational on April 3, turn-ing in some impressive results at the non-scoring meet, which was held at Cal State San Marcos. No team scores were kept, allowing the Tritons to train in events that were not necessarily their best.
The meet was a welcome reprieve after the 
team’s outstanding performance at the high profile Cal/Nevada Championships the week before.
“It’s a great opportunity for us to rest people or 
move them around as we need to, ” said women’s coach Darcy Ahner. “It allows us to qualify more people in the relay events, and it can give people a chance to try more events as well. ”
Several nearby universities showed up to the 
meet — including the University of Southern California and UC Irvine — but none of the Tritons’ conference opponents participated. This gave UCSD a chance to experiment a little and fine tune for bigger meets later in the season.
On the women’s side, junior Kelly Fogarty blew 
by the competition in the 100-meter dash to clock a time of 11.90 seconds. The school-record holder also anchored the Tritons’ winning 4x100-meter relay team. 
“Kelly has had so much fire this year, and its 
been really fun to watch, ” Ahner said.
Senior Linda Rainwater won three events, 
recording the top marks in the shot put, javelin throw and high jump. A former All-American in the heptathlon, Rainwater will look to build on her success in the field events at the Mt. Sac heptathlon in Azusa on April 14. 
The men’s team was lead by Fred Cook: The 
senior shot putter hit 52’ 2” to win the event and record a provisional NCAA  Division-II champi-onships qualifier. Senior Daniel Anderson turned in a similarly magnificent performance, breaking four minutes in his first attempt at 1500 meters with a time of 3:54.40. He earned second place in the event, only a week after he broke a 17-year-old school record in the 800-meter race. Anderson recorded a time of 1:51.12 seconds in the pre-liminaries of the Cal/Nevada Championships, and bested Mark Yuen’s 1993 record by 0.14 seconds. 
“That meant a lot to me, ” Anderson said. “I’ve 
been dealing with injuries and I haven’t really had a strong healthy season in a while, so I’ve been waiting to break that record for a long time. ”
Head Coach Tony Salerno emphasized the 
significance of Anderson’s performance.
“The record is a big one, ” Salerno said. “We’re 
really happy to see him show that kind of talent. ”<:1<76;/7;1@;<:)1/0<=+;,;MTN
-^IT]I\M[QV
;IV5IZKW[
By Liam Rose
Senior Staff Writer
With less than a month left in their regu-
lar season, the Tritons held tight against Cal State San Bernardino and Brown University on April 4. And the No. 17 UCSD women’s water-polo team could not have picked a better juncture of the season to hit their stride.
Senior utility Stephanie Heinrich scored 
five goals and sophomore two-meter Kirsten Bates added two more, earning the team its sixth consecutive victory: a 11-7 win over No. 20 Brown University. Heinrich had also put in the go-ahead goal earlier in the day against San Bernardino, helping the Tritons to a 6-3 victory. 
Heinrich scored four goals in the first four 
minutes of the game, and Brown was never able to recover.
“Stephanie Heinrich set the tone immedi-
ately as the senior team captain, ” head coach Brad Kreutzkamp said. “Four goals on four shots to start the game let everyone know that she meant business — and that attitude carries over to the rest of the team. ”
UCSD led by as many as six goals in the third period, but Brown netted three straight goals in the fourth to cut the Triton lead to 10-7 with six minutes remaining. However, the Triton defenders would not allow any-thing past them for the rest of the game, and Bates added her second goal with 36 seconds remaining as the Tritons held on for the win.
Seniors Sarah Glick and Lauren Presant led 
Brown with two goals apeice.
The Bears’ defeat leaves them at 18-7 over-
all for the season. 
Against San Bernardino, the Tritons fell 
behind 3-2 after the first period, but scored the final four goals of the match to seal the win. 
“Our theory all year long has been that 
any team can beat anybody on any day, ” Kreutzkamp said. “That game was an example of how we can end on the wrong end of that. But, thankfully, our defense kept us in the game until our offense woke up in the fourth quarter. ”
The Tritons were unable to score for 
nearly 20 minutes before junior utility TC Coles scored her first goal at UCSD to tie the game with 1:20 remaining in the third period. Heinrich then scored with 6:58 remaining, and Bates and junior attacker Hanalei Crowell 
added late insurance goals to finish off San Bernardino. 
Redshirt freshman Misty Vu scored two 
goals for the Coyotes, who dropped to 13-16 on the season.
The Tritons have a busy weekend ahead of 
them in Northern California. The team will play Cal State East Bay on April 9, then com-pete in the Santa Clara Invitational on April 10 and April 11.
Readers can contact Liam Rose at  lfrose@
ucsd.edu.
Softball Team Slides into April With Series Split Against Dominguez Hills
By Vishal Natarajan
Sports Editor
SOFTBALL — UCSD launched into a four-
game series against Cal State Dominguez Hills from April 2 to April 3, playing the best ball they’ve played all season — and possibly in program history.
The Tritons got April off to a good start, 
fresh out of an equally successful March that saw the team win 15 of their 18 games and rocket to third place in the California Collegiate Athletic Association.
Moreover, the team’s 23-11 March record 
marked the best start to a season in the pro-
gram’s short history at the Division-II level. The 
Tritons achieved a 29-13 finish in 2000 during their final season competing in Division-III.
“We showed what were capable of, and what 
we expect to be doing, ” senior captain Nicole Saari said. “We finally started hitting toward the end of the year. The end of the lineup started getting it together. ”
Despite their superior NCAA regional rank-
ing, however, the No. 4 Tritons were only able to 
manage a series split against the No. 10 ranked 
Toros — sharing the spoils in both Friday’s and Saturday’s doubleheaders.
On Friday, the Tritons picked up right where 
they left off last month, pummeling the Toros 7-0 behind a career performance from sopho-more right-handed pitcher Camille Gaito.
Gaito was stingy on the mound for her 12th 
win of the season, striking out a personal best of nine Toro hitters. She allowed only two hits and walked none.
Gaito received ample run support from a 
fiery Triton lineup that poured in seven runs from 10 hits. Freshman infielder Katie Belanger launched a three-run shot to left field in the fifth inning to seal the UCSD win, and finished the game two-for-three at the plate with four runs-batted-in and one run scored.
In their second game, however, sloppy 
Triton defense allowed the Toros to mount a lopsided lead. The opposition capitalized on five Triton errors for a 9-1 victory to even the series.
Saturday’s play followed a similar pattern. In 
game three of the series, UCSD earned a hard-fought 4-2 victory over Dominguez Hills before losing 10-1 in the series finale.
In Saturday’s first game, Gaito was again 
dominant, throwing a complete game six-hitter and allowing only two earned runs while strik-ing out two. The performance improved her personal season record to 13-6.
For the second straight day, Belanger pro-
vided the big hits for the Triton offense. Her three-run homerun in the fifth inning broke a 1-1 tie, giving th team a 4-1 lead it would not relinquish.
However, in the series finale, the Toro 
offense rebounded from their Gaito beatdown to tag two Triton pitchers — senior Christine Zankich and sophomore Tess Granath — for nine runs in the first three innings, coming out with a 10-1 victory.
The Tritons, still in third place after the 
series split, now sit at 25-13 overall and 15-9 in conference, with three league series remain-ing. They return to action on the road against 
Humboldt State on March 9.
“We can’t take them lightly, ” Saari said. “We 
know every team in our conference is capable 
of winning any given game, so we need to come out strong — play like we did in the first games of our last series. ”
Readers can contact Vishal Natarajan at  vnata-
raj@ucsd.edu.See TRACK & FIELD page 15
JOHN  HANACEK /GUARDIAN  FILE
In the series against Dominguez Hills from April 2 to April 3, freshman 
infielder Katie Belanger homered twice and knocked in seven RBIs.DATE OPPONENT RESULT
APRIL 3ROADRUNNER  INVITATIONAL
CSU San Bernardino
BrownREGULAR SEASONMARCH 27 CSU BakersfieldUC Davis14-13
10-9
MARCH 28 Sonoma StateCSU San Bernardino15-611-5
6-3
11-7ERIK  JEPSEN /GUARDIAN>64,5»:>(;,97636