By Javier Armstrong
Contributing Writer
Protesters gathered around City Hall 
last Friday afternoon for the “Occupy San Diego” protest, in solidarity with New Y ork City’s ongoing “Occupy Wall Street” movement.
The ‘Occupations’ — which started in 
New Y ork City on Sept. 17 — have traveled across the country to cities like Chicago, Seattle and San Francisco. “Occupy San Diego” occurred on Oct. 7, one week after ‘Occupy Los Angeles’ on Oct. 1. Police estimated nearly 1,500 people attended the protest.
These peaceful protests organized via 
Facebook and Twitter voiced a variety of issues, including corporate greed, unemployment and an uneven distribution of wealth in this country.
These national mobilizations have 
been a leaderless and loosely organized movement that defines itself as a “people powered movement for democracy. ” /uni00A0
Canadian advocacy magazine Adbusters 
posted a call for action on July 2011 on its blog, which set off the series of protests.
On Sept. 17, a group in New Y ork calling 
itself “The General Assembly, ” — taking inspiration from the recent uprising in Tahrir Square in Egypt and from the Spanish acampadas  in Madrid this summer 
— encouraged activists to flood Lower Manhattan in order to occupy Wall Street. 
Authorities later moved the protestors 
from the financial district to the new base on Zucotti Park, a privately owned park in 
By Rebecca HorwitzAssociate News Editor
A sinkhole caused by a broken 
storm drain opened in the middle of Campus Point Drive on Thursday, Oct. 6. The hole grew to 50 feet in length and 25 feet in width.
The collapse occurred around 
7:20 a.m. and was reported to the police at 7:30 a.m. The sinkhole was very close to the intersection of Campus Point Drive and Campus Point Center, north of Scripps Memorial Hospital.
A sinkhole is an erosion of land 
caused when underground water dissolves minerals in the ground. A buried hole is created and as it gets larger, the land on top caves in.
A broken 30-inch diameter 
storm drain caused the hole to form 15 feet beneath the surface. The drain ruptured below the street and its runoff eroded the ground beneath the pavement. Dirt fell into the storm pipelines, clogging it and causing water to pool. Raw sewage ran into the pool 
after the dirt also cracked a 10-inch sewer pipe. 
San Diego storm water 
department spokesman Bill Harris said the storm pipelines had been installed in 1972 — the most recent pipes installed in the city were installed in 1992. 
Harris said that Wednesday’s 
rain likely added to the erosion of/uni00A0 the decaying metal storm drain. The San Diego Water Department shut off the water main of the neighborhood in case of additional cave-ins. 
This affected 30  businesses in the 
area including Qualcomm, SAIC and the Campus Point Technology Center, the University City business park and residents in the area. The Scripps Memorial Hospital was not affected by the shutoff. Water was restored to the businesses Thursday night, but the water main remains shut off. Temporary sewer and 
THURSDAY WEDNESDAYSPOKEN SPOKEN SURFÊREPORT INSIDE NIGHTÊWATCH
MONDAY
Height: 3-4 ft.
Wind: 5-7 mph
Water Temp: 70 FTUESDAY
Height:  4 ft.
Wind: 4-7 mph
Water Temp: 70 F
WEDNESDAY
Height:  3-4 ft.
Wind: 6-9 mph 
Water Temp: 70 FTHURSDAY
Height: 3-4 ft.
Wind: 2-8 mph 
Water Temp: 70 FLOW
$3.53
76, El Cajon
898 Broadway & N. Mollison Ave.
HIGH
$4.49
76, Coronado
900 Orange Ave. & 9th St.THURSDAY FRIDAYMONDAY
H 73 L 57TUESDAY
H 75 L 61 MONDAY TUESDAYGAS PRICES SURF REPORT NIGHT W ATCH FORECAST WEB POLL
WILL YOU ATTEND HULLABALOO?
√  Yes
√  NoSUNRI SE
6:49  A.M.
6:22  P .M.WEDNESDAY
H 83 L 62THURSDAY
H 80 L 61 THURSDAY WEDNESDAY WWW.UCSDGUAR DIAN. ORGVILLAIN AND MONKEY ......... 2
CURRENTS .............................. 3AT WIT’S END.......................... 4UNCOMMON FOLK ............... 6SUDOKU .................................. 6LEFT, CENTER, TACKLE ....... 12SPORTS .................................. 12
SUNSET
WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG MONDAY , OCTOBER 10, 2011 VOLUME 45, ISSUE 6
PHILIP  JIA/GUARDIAN
By Laira Martin
News Editor
U CSD’s annual FallFest is no more. After a 13-year run, budget cuts have threat-ened the festival’s success — thus the 
A.S. Concerts & Events  office is re-branding the festival into “Hullabaloo, ” which is planned to take place Nov. 18 in conjunction with Founders’ Day. 
“We knew definitely that we needed a different 
name to make it feel like we were starting a new tradition, ” Associate Vice President of Concerts & Events Oliver Zhang said. “[Keeping] the name FallFest would be misleading because it is such a different event. We wanted to give this event a new life. We thought a lot about the name, and we wanted a name that sounded like a really fun celebration. ”
Founders’  Day — which featured the artist 
Far East Movement last year — will take place on Nov. 18 during the day with Hullabaloo following at 6 p.m. to 11:45 p.m. using the same stage setup. Unlike FallFest, which was held at the Warren Mall, Hullabaloo will held be in the Town Square and Matthews Quad.
“We had to revamp Fall Fest, ” Zhang said. 
“To go with the Fall Fest we had in previous years would be a disservice to students because of financial reasons. It wouldn’t [have met] students’ expectations from the past and I think it would’ve just been a bad decision for all of us. ”
Hullabaloo will feature both UCSD musicians 
and outside musicians that have yet to be released, as well as carnival rides, food trucks and other attractions. 
“I think given the success of events like the 
“ All Campus Dance” or the dance tent at Sun God proves to us that we don’t really need a big headliner to draw students, ” Zhang said. 
The festival will also allow re-entry, another 
feature that Zhang felt FallFest lacked.
“The lineup never really felt consistent, ” 
Zhang said. “ Attendance dropped the previous year from two years ago so I think there was a fundamental issue with FallFest. It wasn’t as sustainable a tradition as I think Hullabaloo will be. ”
FallFest, which traditionally featured one or 
two headliner artists such as The Game in 
2009 and Big Boi in 2010, did not live up to  Zhang’s expectations. The festival’s budget was cut by $75,000 from the original $135,000 for Fall Fest 2010 to the Hullabaloo budget of only $60,000. ASCE took the cut as an opportunity to re-brand FallFest from a night concert to a festival that will no longer be focused around one headliner artist. Although Hullabaloo is replacing FallFest, Zhang emphasized that this a completely new festival. 
“I thought there was a problem with the 
format of Fall Fest in general because it was more of a concert than a festival, which is perfectly fine but that’s just not what I envisioned, ” Zhang said. “Regardless of any financial reasons, I think I would have [changed] Fall Fest anyway. ” 
Zhang expects a turnout of about 4,000 UCSD 
students. The lineup will be released Oct. 31. 
“I think it’s hard to compare Hullabaloo and 
Fall Fest, ” Zhang said. “They’re very different. I would have changed the format of Fall Fest regardless of the budget. ”
Readers can contact Laira Martin at lmm002@
ucsd.eduBUDGETÊCUTSÊBRINGÊCHANGESÊTOÊFALLFEST
CAMPUS POINT DRIVE CLOSED OFF DUE TO SINKHOLESAFETY
“Occupy” 
Movement Spreads to SDCAMPUS LIFE
PROTESTSee OCCUPY, page 3
SKATING ON 
SUNSHINE
REGGIE  BALLESTEROS /GUARDIAN
UCSD student skateboards down a steep hill on the way to Black’s Beach on Friday, Oct. 7.
ANDREW  OH/GUARDIANSee SINKHOLE, page 3UCSD ALUMNUS STUDIES THE SCIENCE OF WHY WE CHOKE UNDER PRESSURE. PAGE 6. 2                                                                                                                                    THE UC SD GU ARDIAN  | MONDA Y, OCTOBER  10, 2011 | W WW.UCSDGU ARDIAN. ORG 
TheÊ UCSDÊ GuardianÊ isÊ publishedÊ MondaysÊ andÊ
ThursdaysÊduringÊtheÊacademicÊyearÊbyÊUCSD ÊstudentsÊ
andÊ forÊ theÊ UCSDÊ community.Ê ReproductionÊ ofÊ thisÊnewspaperÊ inÊ anyÊ form,Ê whetherÊ inÊ wholeÊ orÊ inÊ part,ÊwithoutÊ permissionÊ isÊ strictlyÊ prohibited.Ê ©Ê 2011,Ê allÊrightsÊreserved.ÊTheÊUCSDÊGuardianÊisÊnotÊresponsibleÊforÊtheÊreturnÊofÊunsolicitedÊmanuscriptsÊorÊart.ÊTheÊviewsÊexpressedÊhereinÊdoÊnotÊnecessarilyÊrepresentÊtheÊopin-ionsÊofÊtheÊUCSDÊGuardian,ÊtheÊUniversityÊofÊCaliforniaÊorÊAssociatedÊStudents.ÊTheÊUCSDÊGuardianÊisÊfundedÊbyÊadvertising.ÊSaadomy.
GeneralÊEditorial:Ê858-534-6580Ê
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News:Ê news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion:Ê opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports:Ê sports@ucsdguardian.org
Focus:Ê focus@ucsdguardian.org
Leisure:Ê leisure@ucsdguardian.org
Hiatus:Ê hiatus@ucsdguardian.org Ê
Photo:Ê photo@ucsdguardian.orgBusiness Manager
EmilyÊKuÊ
Marketing & Advertising Director
BrandonÊKatzer
Webmaster
BryanÊSmith
Marketing Assistant
ChristineÊAlabastro
Advertising Design & Layout 
AlfredoÊH.ÊVilanoÊJr.
A.S.ÊGraphicÊStudio Ê
Distributor
AmandaÊKuPage Layout
PraneetÊKolluru,ÊArielleÊSallaiAngelaÊChen
ArielleÊSallai
MargaretÊYau
LairaÊMartin
NicoleÊChan
RebeccaÊHorwitz
MargaretÊYau
MadelineÊMann
RachelÊUda
MinaÊNilchian
RenÊEbel
MonicaÊHaider
EmilyÊPham
AndrewÊOh
NolanÊThomas
RebekahÊHwangEditor in Ch ief
Managing Editors
News Editor
Associate News Editors
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Associate
Focus/Leisure Editor
Hiatus EditorCopy Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Art Editor
HayleyÊBisceglia-Martin
MelodyÊChernDevelopment EditorDesign Program DirectorBIRDLAND By Rebekah Dyer
VILLAIN AND MONKEY By Nicole Oliver
SWEET
WEDNESDAY
G U E S S  H O W  M A N Y  P I E C E S  O F
C A N D Y  A R E  I N  T H E  B A C K P A C K 
W I N  C A N D Y  &  B A C K P A C K
( D R A W I N G  @  N O O N
I N S I D E  B O O K S T O R E2 N D  F L O O R .  N E E DN O T  B E  P R E S E N TT O  W I N )OCT 12
W I N  
 C A N D Y  
 &  
B A C K P A C K
( D R A W I N G  @  N O O N
I N S I D E  B O O K S T O R E
2 N D  F L O O R .  N E E D
N O T  B E  P R E S E N T
T O  W I N )
U C S D  B O O K S T O R E  2 N D  F L O O R
O C T O B E R  1 0 - 1 3
25%
OFFALL
JANSPORTBackpacks& ClothesweekweekweekFREE
GIFT
TUESDAY
P U R C H A S E
30 $OCT 11 FREE
SWEATSHIRTMONDAY
P U R C H A S E
40 $
I N  JANSPORT
P R O D U C T  &  R E C E I V E  A
F R E E  S W E A T S H I R T
( W H I L E  S U P P L I E S  L A S T  •  V A L U E  $ 4 0 )OCT 10
SWEATSHIRT
MONDAY
P U R C H A S E
40 
JANSPORT
P R O D U C T  &  R E C E I V E  A
F R E E  S W E A T S H I R T
MONDAY
OCT 13THROWBACK
THURSDAY
11am-2pm
1 .  H U L A  H O O P  C O N T E S T
@  B O O K S T O R E  L I B R A R Y  W A L K  P L A Z A
2 .  D A N C E  O F F
W I T H  O V E R S I Z E D
B A C K P A C K
E V E R Y  C O N T E S T A N TW I N S  A  
P R I Z E
F R O M  J A N S P O R T
•   S w e a t s h i r t s•  I n f l a t a b l e  C h a i r s•  B l a n k e t s•  J o u r n a l s•  C a r a b i n e r s•  S t a d i u m  S e a t  C u s h i o n s
2 .  D A N C E  O F F
E V E R Y  C O N T E S T A N T
I N  J A N S P O R T P R O D U C T
&  P O P  T H E  B A L L O O N
T O  R E C E I V E  A  F R E E  G I F T
•   M o v i e  T i c k e t s
•  R u b i o ’ s  G i f t  C a r d s
•  B o o k s t o r e  G i f t  C a r d s
•  5 0 %  o f f  J a n s p o r t  C o u p o n s
 ( E V E R Y  B A L L O O N ’ S  A  W I N N E R )
bookstore.ucsd.edu/socialmediaGet the free mobile app at bookstore.ucsd.edu/mbookstore.ucsd.edu/socialmedia
COMPILED BY Rebecca Horwitz | associate news editor CURRENTS
UCSD SAN DIEGO CALIFORNIA
▶ Professor of Medicine and Director of the Center 
for Renal Translational Medicine Kumar Sharma 
has received a $5.9-million grant to study kidney complications related to types 1 and 2 diabetes. 
▶ Former Major League Baseball player Morgan 
Ensberg  is now the UCSD’S baseball team’s hitting coach.
▶ UCSD surgeons used one donated liver to save 
the lives of two men. More than 16,170 patients wait for a liver transplant each year. Using this procedure will allow doctors to save more lives.▶ A body was found in Mission Bay Saturday, Oct. 
8. It has not yet been identified. 
▶ Nine blue whales were spotted close to shore off 
La Jolla and Del Mar. They were likely attracted to an unusually large supply of krill.
▶ A woman was rescued in Mission Bay Saturday 
afternoon. She had been diving near ship wreckage. She was placed in a hyperbaric chamber at the UCSD Medical Center. ▶ Gov. Brown was one of three state governors 
who skipped the 29th annual Border Governors Conference. The conference is held between New Mexico, Texas, Arizona, California and Mexico. The only American governor who attended the event was Gov. Susana Martinez of New Mexico. 
▶ Federal prosecutors target California pot 
dispensaries for closure — even if they are operating legally under California law. The stores have 45 days to shut down or they will face criminal charges and their property will be confiscated.THE UC SD GU ARDIAN  | MONDA Y, OCTOBER  10, 2011 | W WW.UCSDGU ARDIAN. ORG 3
Every year, UCSD graduates choose the PharmD
Program at the University of Michigan College of Pharmacy. In fact, nearly 20 percent of our
PharmD enrollment is comprised of alumni fromCalifornia universities. 
What accounts for Michigan’s popularity among
Golden Staters? First, we are consistently ranked amongAmerica’s top pharmacy schools. Secondly, we consider a lot more than GPA and PCAT scores when evaluating
your application.
Earn your bachelor’s degree at UCSD, and then earn
your PharmD at U-M. That’s what many UCSD studentsdo every year.
To learn more about the PharmD Program at
Michigan, visit our Web site at www.umich.edu/~pharmacy .
Or contact the College of Pharmacy at 734-764-7312(mich.pharm.admissions@umich.edu ).
Your future never looked brighter.
Meet some alumni of
California universitieswho recently enrolledas University ofMichigan PharmD students.
Look no further than 
the University of Michigan.
Still looking for a reason to make Michigan yourpharmacy
school? Consider these :
1. Financial support unequalled by any other U.S. pharmacy
school.
2. Outstanding pay .
3. Job security in economically uncertain times.
4. Unlimited opportunities to improve people’s lives .
5. Unparalleled career choices .
6. Continuous growth potential .
7. Life and career mobility .
8. The prestige of owning a degree from one of America’s 
top-ranked pharmacy schools.
9.Membership in an influential alumni network spanning 
the globe.
10.The power to apply medical knowledge at the forefront of
technological innovation.
11.Small class size to maximize individualized educational 
experiences.
12.One-to-one learning with world-renowned faculty .Looking for a great pharmacy school?
Sunday, Oct. 212:03 a.m.: Noise disturbance
▶ A loud party at Kathmandu 
Hall was causing a disturbance. Information only .
1:21 a.m.: Medical aid
▶ The subject was suffering from 
an allergic reaction to nuts at Price Center, but no ambulance was needed. Friend will transport to 
hospital if needed .
1:23 a.m.: Alcohol contact
▶ A 17-year-old female was arrested 
for public intoxication. Juvenile 
citation issued, transported to detox . 
1:42 a.m.: Welfare check
▶ Two subjects were carrying 
a possibly drunk male around Discovery Hall. Transported to 
Thornton Hospital .
11:16 p.m.: Alcohol contact
▶ Three minors were caught drinking 
alcohol at Cuzco Hall. Two adult 
citations, one juvenile citation.
Monday, Oct. 3
2:13 a.m.: Citizen contact
▶ The subject asked the UCSD 
Police Department questions about filing a temporary restraining order. Information only .
3:41 a.m.: Traffic stop
▶ A vehicle was stopped for having 
intoxicated underage students, and one was transported to Detox. 4 
adult citations issued .
5:30 p.m.: Theft of bicycle
▶ The subject’s $800 bicycle was 
stolen at University Center. Online 
report .
6:09 p.m.: Citizen contact
▶ Two bikes were locked together by 
accident at The Village. Information 
only.
8:11 p.m.: Animal call
▶ There was a poor injured rabbit at 
Marshall Provost. Information only .
9:20 p.m.: Citizen contact
▶ The subject found a bullet at 
Leichtag Biomedical Building. Information only .Tuesday, Oct. 41:40 a.m.: Noise disturbance
▶ A 20-year-old male was drunk in 
public and being loud at Village East 5. Transported to detox/adult citation 
issued .
1:31 p.m.: Medical aid
▶ A young female was having a 
seizure at Preuss School. Transported 
to hospital .
10:12 p.m.: Citizen contact
▶ The subject was asking for money 
at Plaza Café. Transported off 
campus .
Wednesday, Oct. 52:19 a.m.: Citizen contact
▶ There was a female sleeper at Blake 
Hall. Information only .
11:53 a.m.: Smoke check
▶ A strong burning odor was coming 
from the Biomedical Sciences Building but there was no sign of smoke or fire. Referred to other 
agency.4:30 p.m.: Shoplifting
▶ Someone got away with stealing 
$223 worth of products from the Bookstore. Report taken .
Thursday, Oct. 63:00 a.m.: Noise disturbance
▶ Students were singing loudly and 
stomping at Asia Hall. Quiet on 
arrival .
7:45 p.m.: Information
▶ The reporter saw a suspicious 
person getting into a car while its car alarm was going off at Lot 020. Unable to locate .
9:15 p.m.: Disturbance
▶ A 22-year-old male was arrested 
for beating a person while drunk. Closed by adult arrest.10:50 p.m.: Suicide attemptvThere was a suicide attempt at the V A Hospital. Referred to other agency 
- VA Police.
— Compiled by Sarah Kang  
S/t.sc/a.sc/f.sc/f.sc W/r.sc/i.sc/t.sc/e.sc/r.scLIGHTS & SIRE NS “Occupy San Diego” Members Continue Protest Indeﬁnitely 
University City Road Closed While Workers Make Sinkhole Repairs
water lines were put above ground for the businesses that have been affected by the broken drain. They will remain in place until the water main can be turned on again. Large hoses were used to vacuum out the liquid. 
A pipeline of reclaimed water and 
a bundle of telephone and fiber optic lines are running above the pipes. 
An electrical line runs adjacent to 
the hole. Harris said they needed to stabilize the utilities and find a way to repair the drain without damage. He had no estimate on when the roadway pipes will be repaired.
“We won’t be digging there until 
we know how much pipe we have to replace, how much we have to dig, then decide if we need an outside contractor and determine a funding source, ” Harris said in an Oct. 7 San Diego Union-Tribune article “University City Road Still Closed for 
Sinkhole. ”
Workers in the area were surprised 
by sinkhole.
“We just kind of looked at each 
other and said wow, we were driving over that for weeks, ” Qualcomm worker Brian Padgett said in the Oct. 6 article of 10News, “Sinkhole Closes 
Street in University City. ”
Readers can contact Rebecca Horwitz 
at rahorwit@ucsd.edu▶ SINK HOLE, from page 1Lower Manhattan that was formerly known as Liberty Plaza Park. The protestors still remain at Zucotti Park to date.
“The future of the human race 
requires the cooperation of its members, ” the General Assembly said in an Oct. 1 statement. 
The statement further explained 
that it is up to the individuals to protect their own rights and their neighbor’s rights, and that corporations do not see a problem with extracting wealth from the people and the earth. 
Occupy San Diego began at 4:30 
p.m. on Oct. 7. 
Hundreds of residents marched 
from San Diego’s Children’s Park downtown towards Civic Center Plaza where they planned to stage a sit-in at City Hall. 
The group however, agreed to move 
back to Children’s Park because of a pre-scheduled religious observance at Civic Center Plaza for Y om Kippur.
There were no arrests reported 
as protestors settled in downtown’s Children’s Park, where many planned to spend the night camping outdoors.
“Everybody’s been good, ” Shawn 
Murphy of the San Diego Police Department said. “Everyone’s been good and getting their point across. ”The demonstration, which is 
planned to last indefinitely, has no official list of demands.
“There are so 
many things to protest, ” Harry Simón Salazar 
said, a graduate student from the UCSD Department of Communication. “I’m not out here to protest [just] one thing. ”
Simón said he 
had originally been downtown earlier that day to show support for the California Dream Act, 
which was signed by Gov. Brown on Oct. 9. 
The Dream Act would give 
undocumented students of good character access to state-funded financial aid and permanent residency.
“It doesn’t matter whether it’s 
a Republican or Democrat in government, it’s a continuity of crises ranging from war, bank bailouts, home foreclosures, unemployment, cuts to social services, corporate 
domination of the electoral process and the list continues, ” Sim ón said.
The crowds have a variety of issues 
to voice, but their primary concerns stem from the perception that Wall Street and banking institutions control most of the money.
In a news conference last Thursday, 
President Obama said that people were angry because Wall Street had not been following the rules.
The protestors call themselves “the 
99 percent” of the population who continues to struggle as the economy gets worse and unemployment rises, while “the 1 percent” who has the vast majority of the country’s wealth continues to prosper. 
Many protestors carried candles 
that they hoped to burn through the night. 
Food and drinks were donated to 
protestors and musical instruments resonated throughout the park. 
Protestors downtown have vowed 
to stay as long as they can.
As of Sunday afternoon, about 500 
protestors were still occupying the Civic Center and made a request through the “Occupy San Diego” Facebook page to receive blankets and sleeping bags.
Readers can contact Javier Armstrong at 
jtarmstr@ucsd.edu▶ OCCUPY, from page 1
“There are so 
many things to protest. I’m not out here to protest [just] one thing.”
HARRY SALAZAR
GRADUATE STUDENT
COMMUNICATIONSOPINIONMARGARET YAU
opinion @ucsdguardian.orgCON TACT THE EDITOR4 THE UC SD G UAR DIAN  | MO DND AY, OCTOB ER 10, 2011 | WWW. UCSDG UAR DIAN.ORG
TUESDAY NOV. 1, 2011  AT 6 PM.  CENTER HALL, 109  
FREE SCREENING FOLLOWED BY DISCUSSION WITH FILMMAKER! 
SPONSORED BY:            
Chicano/a-Latino/a Arts & Humanities, CLAH, Minor Program, Council of Provost, 
Literature Department and the Cross Cultural Center         Contact: hcervantes@ucsd.edu  I’m pretty sure that this week I’ve 
come across enough Steve Jobs tributes — Facebook statuses, 
Tweets, photos and very many full-length articles — to leave my laptop forever overwhelmed by the rainbow wheel of death. The cybernoise has 
been deafening — so deafening that 
happily, no one’s had two words to say about Sarah Palin’s declaration that she won’t run for president. (Except, maybe, “cool story”). 
The cynic in me can’t help but 
think that behind all the public mourning, there’s an editor schem-ing to mine the story for all it’s worth — for another slideshow, or interview or firsthand testimony from someone who saw Jobs at a froyo shop once, and swears his IQ rose because of it. A biography is being rushed to print a month early, and on Oct. 8 the New York Times  
reported that Sony Entertainment will likely buy the film rights. Stay Hungry , 
Stay Foolish, Stay Vocal
See APPLE, page 5At Wit’s
   End
TREVOR CO X
trevorcox@ucsd.edu
T rigger Happy
The Parent Empowerment Act, which allows parents to take judicial action 
against underperforming schools, may lead to more controversy than improvement.
BY HILARY LEE /bullet.case ST AFF WRIT ER
Parents of students at chronically underper-
forming public schools now have the ability to shut schools down by banding together, 
thanks to the Parent Empowerment Act that California adopted in January 2010. This “trigger law” gives parents considerable legal power in the educational system, sparking a debate over whether this power is being placed in the right hands. According to the at, if 51 percent of parents agree that a school’s system is not working, they can “trig-ger” change by demanding that one of four options be taken: ousting the principal, replacing the staff, shutting the school down entirely or allowing a charter operator to take control of the school. California, Texas and Mississippi have all passed parent trigger laws in the past two years, while 22 other states are entertaining the idea of implement-ing similar laws. Though well-intentioned, these “parent trigger” laws foster opportunities for the unwitting misuse of power, since parents don’t have the expertise of career educators and are unquali-fied to make big policy changes. Signing a petition does not automatically solve the problem — pulling the “trigger” in fact, has powerful recoil. 
As a general trend, California schools are on a 
downturn. At the Los Angeles Academy Middle School, for example, only 1 in 5 students tested proficient in math last year, and only 1 in 4 were found to be proficient in language arts. Unrelenting problems like these have caused impatient des-perate parents to turn to the district and school administration. Woodcrest Elementary School, also in Los Angeles, is in a similar situation; there, frus-trated parents hold small group meetings and draw up lists of action items, as only an alarmingly low 
0.2 percent of the school’s students have been iden-
See TRIGGER, page 5
LIOR SCHENK/ GUARDIANtified as gifted. It’s understandable 
that parents are trying to seek their own answers to the system’s prob-lems, but giving them power a la the 
Parent Empowerment Act may not be the most effective tactic.
Parent trigger laws have pro-
duced failure in the past, as in the case of Compton’s McKinley Elementary in February 2011. The school has an Academic Performance Index score of 684 (out of a maximum of 800), plac-ing itself at the bottom of Compton Unified School District. Half of the students at the school did not meet state standards in math and read-ing, prompting hundreds of parents to sign a petition to transform McKinley into a charter school. The school responded by challenging the petition’s validity — teachers are arguing that the signatures were obtained improperly and therefore the petition is void. The struggle between the new “parent union” and the teacher union has created a months-long deadlock in court. The situation at Compton exemplifies how ineffective and counterproduc-tive these judicial battles can be. The California Federation of Teachers labeled the law “lynch mob” legisla-tion, as it essentially creates parent unions that challenge teachers with threats of bringing the legal system into the equation.
Under the “parent trigger law, ” 
parents would be allowed to select which charter school operator they would like to take over their children’s schools. The newly hired administrators of the schools would be given great flexibility in staffing, budgeting and scheduling. This poses a problem as most parents lack the expertise to select a quality administrator, which could worsen a situation already in decline.Furthermore, charter schools are not an end-all solution to the problem. Results are far less positive than studies suggest. Stanford economist Margaret Raymond conducted a national study, in which she found that 37 percent of charter schools performed worse than their public school counterparts, 46 percent performed the same and only 17 percent showed superior results.
Another major concern is that 
the obstacle of funding school changes would render the parent trigger law ineffective. Many unin-formed, idealistic parents believe that they have done their part by simply signing a petition, and expect the rest to automatically fall into place. If anything, the trigger law is merely a jumping point for parents to organize and rally around their interests. As of last May, California is in a $25-billion state budget deficit. In the past few years, half of the state’s schools have cut back on instructional days, two-thirds have taken out summer school and three-quarters of high schools have enlarged their class sizes. Changing public schools into charter schools and replacing staff would be an expensive, extensive process that involves paying for legal fees. Parents do not realize that funding a transformation of the educational system would be impossible in this financial crisis.
While the trigger law grants 
parents more of a voice in the educational system, with it comes responsibility and the looming shadow of unavoidable issues such as financing. The law is a theoreti-cal move in the right direction, but requires much more than abstract idealism to actually be put into practice. 
Readers can contact Hilary Lee at  
hhl009@ucsd.edu.And still, there’s the truth: that words like “visionary” 
and “revolutionary” are the ones that fit. That there is no 
way to know how far the digital revolution might have reached if not for Jobs and his notorious perfectionism. That the public outcry in his passing is inescapable, but more than that — it’s deserved. 
My Apple fandom started young. Before we had 
a computer at home, my dad would often bring his PowerBook home from work. It was years before the iPod, and probably before I’ d even committed two weeks’ allowance to that first Britney Spears CD. 
The laptop was strictly for company business, but 
mysteriously, it also possessed the holy grail that was Kid Pix — you know, the drawing program that let the gifted children paint late-90s masterpieces, while I made lots and lots of stick figures. (And in different colors, too!) 
In an instance of hilarious/terrifying foreshadowing, that was where all the clamoring began. Dad, can I get on Kid Pix now? What about 20 seconds from now? 
By middle school, it was the iPod that I wouldn’t shut 
up about and then the Macbook and then — let’s just say it’s been an ugly descent from age eight. 
Naysayers like to trot out the same old argument that 
Apple products are only popular for their status (an argu-ment that isn’t totally weightless, even if my old laptop is several coffee spills beyond its beauty pageant days). 
But naturally, they’re short on ammo when it comes 
to the company’s (i.e., Jobs’) role in revolutionizing the way we interact both with technology and with each other. A thousand songs in your pocket sounds like a quaint promise in 2011, but it was a radical one just a decade ago. I can’t imagine what I’ d have filled an iPod with then (there weren’t a thousand  “….Baby One More Time” remixes). But what’s even more unfathomable is just how much more Jobs could have done with another decade. 
THE UC SD G UAR DIAN  | MO NDAY, OCTOB ER 10, 2011 | WWW. UCSDG UAR DIAN.ORG 5
LINEA R SPEECH By Robert Kim 
ad name:  CW JD Ad1 size: ½ page H —10" x 8"
publication:  UCSD - “The Guardian” pub date:  10/10/11
gkm contact:  Kathleen Maloney phone:  760.438.8100 ext.117 www.CaliforniaWestern.edu What is law school?
       A place where convention is reinforced?
 Or more than that?
      A place to learn a broad repertoire of skills.
    A rigorous curriculum in a supportive environment.       An intersection of theory and practice.
 Explore  the full potential of the law
              in a school devoted to the big picture.T aking Action More Than Peti tions
▶ TRIGGER, fromÊpageÊ4
Jobs’ Apple Products Helped Alleviate Growing Pains
▶ APPLE, fromÊpageÊ4
6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MON DAY, OCTOBER 10, 2011 | WWW.UC SDGUARDIAN .ORG
FOCUSMINA NILCHIAN
focus @ucsdguardian.orgCONTACT THE EDITOR
features
UNDER  
PRESSURE
ALUMNUS STUDIES THE SCIENCE OF WHY 
WE CHOKE UNDER PRESSURE — AND 
HOW COUNTING BACKWARDS IN THREES 
CAN IMPROVE HUMAN PERFORMANCE.
By angela chen • editor in chief
 A Major League Career
 A Sport Management representative will be in attendance at the
University of California, San Diego Graduate School Fair
Wednesday, Oct. 12, 10:30am–2:30pm
Library Walk
For more information:
Southern California Program 714.633.5626
San Francisco Program 415.422.2678
Visit our website at: www.usfca.edu/sm   
For a complete listing of graduate programs, visit: www.usfca.edu/graduate
Change the World from Here M.A. in Sport Management
An evening Master’s program to build managerial, marketing, 
and strategic skills in the sport marketplace. Now accepting applications for classes starting in July 2012.
University of San Francisco Sport Management alumni:  
Top: Doug Carnahan, San Diego Chargers, Corporate Sales 
Manager;  Above: Jason Green, San Diego Padres, Senior 
Account Executive, Season Ticket Sales
From fancy coaches to 
expensive Kaplan classes, there’s a multi-billion dollar industry dedicated 
to helping people perform when it really matters. But, says UCSD alumnus Sian Beilock, the key to succeeding when the stakes are high isn’t just clocking in as many hours as possible, but practicing in the right environment. And once someone is in front of the test booklet —/uni00A0 or the podium, or the /f_ield —/uni00A0 the secret to preventing a breakdown is captured by one very short, very famous phrase: Just do it./uni00A0
Beilock is a cognitive scientist 
known for her research into “choking, ” or why even highly trained professionals break down under pressure. She’s worked with novice golfers to discover that overthinking leads to failure, and elementary school teachers to identify why young girls are afraid of math. Her /f_indings stem from an interest that began when she was an undergrad at Marshall College, feeling pressure in and out of the classroom.
Beilock, now an associate 
professor of psychology at the University of Chicago, is well-known for her research and has been featured on NPR, the New 
York Times  and the Wall Street 
Journal , but the alumnus said she 
wasn’t always intent on becoming a scientist. At one point, the Bay Area native was interested in law school, and it was only an 11th-hour change of heart that led her to La Jolla.
“I had already decided that 
I was going to go to Amherst, ” she said. “But at the last second, I decided that UCSD was right for me because of the programs in psych and cog sci and I thought it’ d be nice to be so close to the beach. ”
It was at UCSD that classes 
such as Introduction to Cognitive Science and Cognitive Psychology whetted her interest in the workings of the mind. Beilock also played on the lacrosse team for four years, and here her interest in athleticism intersected with classes to help develop her area of research.
“In cog sci, I started learning 
about how people got good at what they do, but there wasn’t a whole lot of information about why people screw up, ” Beilock said. “I was feeling the pressure in the classroom and on the lacrosse /f_ield, and so I became interested in the topic early. ”
/T_hese dual interests in 
human performance and the brain continued a/f_ter Beilock graduated in 1997 with a degree in cognitive science. She next earned two PhDs,/uni00A0 in kinesiology and psychology, from Michigan State University in 2003. 
In one study published when 
Beilock was still a graduate student, she and her colleagues split 54 novice golfers into three groups and then trained them in diﬀerent environments A control group learned under normal conditions, but the researchers engineered “distracting” and “self-conscious” environments for the two other groups. Members of the distraction group were asked to practice while listening to a tape and repeating a target word while, most terrifyingly, the /f_inal group trained with a video camera 
See PRESSURE page 10JEFFREY  LAU/GUARDIANTHE UCSD GUARDIAN | MON DAY, OCTOBER 10, 2011 | WWW.UC SDGUARDIAN .ORG 7
At ﬁrst I didn’t recognize my symptoms as 
mental illness – I thought I was just having some bad days. Then, I learned that 1 in 4 adults experience mental health challenges such as depression, anxiety, bipolar disorder and others. I got help and now I am moving forward with my life. Recovery is possible and getting help is an important ﬁrst step.Mental illness  
can affect anyone.
Up2SD.org/yourlifeRead up to recognize the signs.
10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MON DAY, OCTOBER 10, 2011 | WWW.UC SDGUARDIAN .ORG
The Master of Arts in International Studies
Students in the International Studies program at the University of 
San Francisco engage in a rigorous program that utilizes knowledge across disciplines to study and analyze global issues and problems. Students gain practical experience as they participate in a summer internship with either an international governmental or non-govern- mental organization. The curriculum is designed so students can complete the program in either 3 or 4 semesters depending on their needs.
Other Arts and Sciences Master’s Programs:
Asia Pacific Studies ■ Biology ■ Biotechnology ■ Chemistry 
Computer Science ■ Economics ■ Environmental Management 
International and Development Economics ■ Public Affairs 
Sport Management ■ Web Science ■ Writing (MFA)
DeTAIlS?  Call 415.422.5101 or email asgraduate@usfca.edu
APPlIcATIOn/InfOrMATIOn PAckeT?  
www.usfca.edu/grad/requestinfo
VISIT TheSe PrOgrAMS AT:  www.usfca.edu/asgrad
change the world from herepursue yourMaster’s Degreeand the rather grim assertion that pros would be judging the tapes./uni00A0
/T_he groups were then tested in two situations, one with low 
pressure and one  where the athletes were told that improvement 
would result in monetary awards. All the golfers performed equally on the low-pressure test, but  when the stakes were high, the video camera performed better, while the normal group choked.
Beilock said that this and similar experiments show that practicing 
in an environment that mimics the actual competition fends oﬀ underperformance. She gave the example of test preparation —/uni00A0 while a student’s vocab cards and test-taking strategies might predict good scores, the trick to having a satisfying repeat on the real thing is taking timed practices, not reviewing the meaning of “peroration” yet again.
And when test day comes, the  key is  to stop second-guessing 
yourself and think about something else. Under high-stress situations, especially athletic competition, the working memory portion of the brain begins overthinking movements that are usually automatic, thus disrupting the mind’s /f_low. Beilock found that when golfers count backwards by threes or sings a song, the working memory is occupied, unable to overthink, and people do better./uni00A0
“Sometimes, being conscious of our movements makes us choke, ” she 
said. “It causes anxiety when you’re thinking ‘oh, my knee is contracting like this and my elbow is contracting like that, ’ and paying too much attention creates a buildup that wastes valuable space in the brain. ”
For those who don’t fancy humming aloud on the LSAT, a 
separate experiment showed that having students write about test worries for 10 minutes before the exam improved their scores, especially for those who usually suﬀer from text anxiety./uni00A0
“/T_hink of the mind like a computer, ” she said. “ All those worries 
deplete the working memory of your brain, so instead of focusing on the actual issue at hand, you’re distracted by your worries. So writing it down frees the attention and lets people better focus on the task at hand. ”
Now, Beilock has a grant from the Department of Education to 
study math anxiety. She found that teachers, especially female teachers at the elementary school level, are o/f_ten anxious about their own mathematical skills, and can pass this along to their students. Namely, the more insecure teacher is about her math abilities, the more her students are likely to believe the stereotype that boys are good at math and girls at reading, even if there was no previous diﬀerence./uni00A0
In addition to her continuing work on performance under 
pressure, and new research on elementary education, Beilock turned her /f_indings into a book called Choke , published in 2010.
“I really think scientists have a responsibility to share their /f_indings 
with everyone, ” she said. “Especially if it impacts people like this and can have a positive eﬀect on how people work. I use the writing technique now, everyone in my lab does, we all do what we can to improve our lives. ”
Readers can contact Angela Chen at shchen@ucsd.edu. ▶ PRESSURE fromÊpageÊ6Golfer Study Shows Over-
thinking Leads to Failure THE G UARDIAN
BEACAUSE UCSD DOESN’T HAVE A JOURNALISM PROGRAM.  
APPLICATIONS AT UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG/JOBS8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2011 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG
CAMPUS 10.10-10.16CALEND AR
PUB AFTER DARK:
THE STONE FOXES
@ PORTER’S PUB
8:30pm • FREEMON10.10MON 10.10
every monday in the guardian!
Submit your FALL  events for FREE!
get listed ...
ucsdcalendar@yahoo. comKeep it brief . 30-60 words. Include the name of your
event, time, l ocation and contact info.12pm
Jeffrey Lesser – Brazilian Journeys: Contemporary 
Immigration and Emigration - Eleanor Roosevelt College 
Jeffrey Lesser is Samuel Candler Dobbs Professor and Chair of the 
History Department at Emory University. His research focuses on issues of ethnicity and national identity.  
2pm
Antung Liu (UC San Diego) - Economics Building Rm. 300 
Antung Liu from UC San Diego will present his current research.   
6pm
Birch Aquarium at Scripps - Full Moon Pier Walk - Birch 
Aquarium at the Scripps Institution of Oceanography at UCSD
 
Walk along the Ellen Browning Scripps Memorial Pier, normally 
closed to the public, on an exclusive moonlit tour. Through Tuesday, October 11, 2011
6:30pm
Birch Aquarium at Scripps - Evening Lecture Series - Birch 
Aquarium at the Scripps Institution of Oceanography at UCSD
 
The Limpet Circus: Behavioral Ecology of the Owl Limpet Join Birch 
Aquarium visiting scientist Stephanie Schroeder as she leads you through the fascinating world of limpet interactions and her research examining territorial snail behavior. 
8pm
Roma Nights: Cunning Stunts - Espresso Roma • FREE
Roma Nights has gone acoustic. Check out Cunning Stunts' acoustic performance at this week's Roma Nights! Join us tonight for a night of caffeinated pleasure and a cozy atmosphere. We've got great drinks and awesome music - so skip the library (drop those books) and brighten up your night!
8:30pm
Pub After Dark: The Stone Foxes - Porter's Pub • FREE
Join The Stone Foxes as they tear up Columbus Day at Porter's Pub! Come listen to the great song writing, warm guitars, and the blues harp riffs that make The Stone Foxes’ so good.
THU10.13
8pm
"World Christianity": Its Implications for History, Religious 
Studies, and Theology - Student Services Center - Multipurpose room
 
The Burke Lectureship sponsors a series of lectures that focus on 
the religious dimensions of being human and therefore explore the functions and responsibilities of religion in society and its role in shaping social and moral values.   
8pm
Reel Rock Film Tour - Porter's Pub • FREE
This film tour brings the best in climbing and adventure films to audiences across the globe. REEL ROCK 2011 is a rockin’ event bringing climbers and outdoors lovers together to celebrate the world’s most difficult frozen falls to the hardest big wall free climb antics. Sweet raffle prize giveaways and an opportunity to support UCSD Outback Adventures add to the fun and community feel of REEL ROCK 2011. This year we’ve expanded to two dates to provide you with the ultimate Reel Rock Experience. Free to all UCSD students, there will also be FREE parking for the Saturday show.
12pm
EndNote - Biomedical Library  
A hands-on workshop to help you learn to build your own EndNote reference library.  TUE 10.11
11:30am
Rady School of Management at The USD Graduate School Fair
University of San Diego, UC Forum A and B 
Rady MBA Admissions will have a representative at this event, which will provide students 
interested in exploring graduate programs with an opportunity to meet with representatives from graduate and professional schools.  
3:30pm
Dr. Nancy Qian (Yale University) - Gardner Room - IR/PS Robinson Building 
Complex 
Dr. Nancy Qian from Yale University will present her current research. 
6:30pm
'BULLIED': SCREENING AND DIALOGUE - Green Table Rm, Price Ctr West Level 2.   
Watch + Think + Talk + Eat. Come join Unitarian Universalists at UCSD for a screening of the 
movie 'Bullied', which follows the powerful story of a student who stood up to his anti-gay tormentors and filed a federal lawsuit against his school district. After the movie, we'll share our thoughts and ideas about the subjects the movie deals with. Unitarian Universalism is a liberal religion affirming the worth and dignity of every person. Hope to see you there!
8pm
L.O.L (LOFT OUT LOUD) WITH THE HINGES - The Loft
Appearing monthly at The Loft this season will be much-loved San Diego improv group, The Hinges, fresh from winning the Audience Choice Award at 9th Annual Los Angeles Improv Comedy Festival this year. The Hinges were founded in 2001 by a group of off-kilter individuals who wanted to class up San Diego. Since then, they've grown to be the big improv fish in the small pond that is San Diego. They specialize in silly but grounded improv comedy that isn't very grounded, nor silly. They're awesome, quixotic and incredibly meta. Regular: $10 UCSD Student: $5 UCSD Student Member: $2.50
WED10.12
9am
PowerPoint - Beginning - Biomedical Library 
This workshop is for people who have limited experience with PowerPoint or want a firm grounding in the fundamentals.  
2pm
Dr. Mark Machina (UC San Diego)  - Economics Building Rm. 300 
Dr. Mark Machina will present his current research.     
5:30pm
Social Sciences Supper Club  - UCSD Faculty Club 
“America’s Changing Job Landscape: How Regions Are Reinventing Themselves” Featuring Mary L. Walshok, PhD AVC for Public Programs, Dean of University Extension Adjunct Professor of Sociology 
FRI10.14
8am
&NOW Festival: Tomorrowland 
Forever - Literature Building,Room 155 (de Certeau) 
&NOW is a biennial traveling 
festival/conference that celebrates writing as a contemporary art form. Through Saturday, October 15, 2011 SAT 10.15
11am
Birch Aquarium at Scripps - SEA Days - 
Birch Aquarium at the Scripps Institution of Oceanography at UCSD
 
Discover Science, Exploration & Adventure! 
October is Solar Energy month! Celebrate the many benefits of solar energy as you learn why this clean energy resource is so important to the health of our ocean. 
SUN10.16
8pm
Zee Avi with Matt Grundy - The Loft - 2nd floor Price Center 
To coincide with the release of her sophomore album 'Ghostbird' The Loft is excited to welcome back Zee Avi to it's stage! 
TUE10.11
L.O.L (LOFT OUT LOUD) w/ THE HINGES
The Loft, PC East. Level 2 • 8pm
Regular: $10   UCSD Student: $5   UCSD Student Member: $2.50THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2011 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 9
Guardian Classifieds are placed online and are FREE for UCSD. Low cost classified placements for our print 
edition are also available to the UCSD campus and the public at   ucsdguardian.campusave.com
Guardian Classifieds are placed online and are FREE for UCSD. Low cost classified placements for our print edition are also available to the UCSD campus and the public at   
ucsdguardian.campusave.comHOUSING
Need a person to replace me at the end of 
december or January on a lease that starts in oct 1. It is right across from Victoria secret at Utc. Takes a minute to get to Utc bus stop. U will always have a seat on the bus, takes 10min to get to school. available for visit anytime! Just reply and I’ll give u a call.rent is cheap, 375 sharing a big room, utilities 25. Spacious living room, nice roommates- clean, neat, friendly! It’s always cozy never too hot or too cold here. Apply online at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds to Listing ID: 13213001
$500 Condo room for share. Great views! 
Close to La Jolla. Looking for someone to move in starting end of December or beginning of January (starting win-ter quarter). Will be sharing with a male 
UCSD students. Includes: Huge TV, Surround sound speaker system. Large patio, Microwave, oven, toaster. Washer  
and dryer. Dinner table and chairs, comfy couches. Bathroom, closet, bed, desk, chair. Utilities + Payments. Electricity. Arrowhead drinking water. Time Warner Internet (15 
Mbps). Apply online at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds to Listing ID: 13212928
Master Bedroom (Double) - Need a 
Roomie! $423.75 Hey there! We’re in need 
of someone to double up with in the mas-ter of our apt. You get your own private bathroom and the master comes with a walk-in closet. You will be sharing your room with a fourth year female UCSD student for the month of October. In the other room are two fourth years, one male and one female. All of us are really friendly and we would love anyone friendly to join us too. After that you can choose to renew the lease starting Nov. 1st. Female room mate preferred! Utilities: time warner internet, water, SDGE = usually adds up to around $40. Apply online at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds to Listing ID: 13212805
Cheap & Clean Living Room for Female - 
ASAP . Looking for one GIRL to move in the living room of Costa Verde ASAP (No later than Oct 1). You will be taking up a gener -
ous amount of the living room space. No dividers provided. All of us are usually out during the day either for school or work, so it is usually nice and quiet. We are all very 
easy going and friendly to each other, so we hope to make good friends with you as well. Also, all of us have boyfriends, so you have to feel comfortable with them coming over often - cooking, chatting and such. W e sometimes watch movies, have 
dinner or do nails together. It’s fun!!!  Apply online at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds to  Listing ID: 13042562
FOR SALE
SHETLAND SHEEPDOG-puppy - $950. Beautiful, intelligent, friendly Sheltie Fe puppy. AKC registerable. 8 weeks old. shots given. Apply online at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds to  Listing ID: 12531245
Beagle puppies - $450. The real snoopy 
puppy is back. 8 weeks old male and female available. Traditional tri-color and lemon color. Both parents are purebred, mom was Akc reg. Parents weigh about 25lbs each. Puppies are vaccinated and dewormed. Blocky head and a nice white flag tail. Beagle have no known health issue and they come with a free vet visit and and a one year health guarantee. Nice with kids and other pets. Discount for active law enforcement and military. Apply online at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds to  Listing ID: 12531239   
Across
1 Whit e whale chaser
5 Cannes clergymen
10 Foam ball maker14 Island nation near Tonga15 Wild animal16 Leaf-to-branch angle17 Difficult youngster18 Jolly holiday visitor19 Underground missile launch site20 W as disappointed, as with a perfor -
mance
23 Shrinking Asian sea24 GPA booster25 Out-of-the-ordinary brews31 Lewd material32 Compassion from the judge36 DDE opponent37 Attorney general under Ronald Reagan40 Big Band __41 Smudges in a psychological test43 Lascivious look44 Calm by nature48 __ Arabia51 Not worth debating52 She replaced Paula Abdul as an 
"American Idol" judge
58 1999 Ron Howard film59 __ Mountains: south-central U.S. range60 Term referring to a prev. citation62 Actress Hatcher63 Mournful music64 Stun65 Spoken66 Seven Dwarfs' only beardless member67 Spud's buds
Down
1 Ohio's Wright-Patterson, e.g.: Abbr.
2 Give the job to3 Sink-cleaning brand4 Very small role5 1970s-'80s FBI bribery sting6 Fab Four member7 Ruination8 Cornerstone abbr.9 Attack à la Brutus10 '70s tennis star Ilie11 They're marked with lit signs12 Lead the life of ___13 Plant life21 Bard's "before"22 Spooky25 Actor Morales26 Mutant super-heroes co-created by 
Stan Lee
27 Mammoth feature28 Hallowed29 Third shoe width beyond D30 Naval Acad. grad33 __-do-well34 Canadian tribe35 Lawn party site37 NBA Hall of Famer Hayes38 John or Jane39 Map feature with an elev.42 Torment diabolically43 Left on the table, as a bet45 Come out46 Organ grinder's pet47 "Annabel Lee" poet48 Tend49 Birch family tree50 Prefix with violet53 Connecticut senator Chris54 Basso Pinza55 "The Wor ld According to __"
56 "Buy It Now" online site (and where 
vowels were bought for 20-, 25-, 37-, 44- and 52-Across?)
57 Magnitude61 __ Moines
Very Cute Labrador Retriever Pups - $350. 
Very cute labrador retriever puppies are ready for their new home, they are reach-ing their 8 weeks, have the first set of shots.. both males and females in choco -
late brown and black... No AKC registra-tion, however both parents are purebred.. Call or email for aditional info at or (email removed). Apply online at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds to Listing ID: 12521977
Tickets for Blink 182My Chemical Romance 
at Cricket Wireless Amphitheatre - $111. 
Buy Blink 182My Chemical Romance Tickets for Thursday, October 06, 2011 7:00 PM at Cricket Wireless Amphitheatre (for -
merly Coors Amphitheatre) in Chula Vista, California. Apply online at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds to Listing ID: 13192092
1995 Johnson 88 HP SPL Excellent 
Condition Trim/Tilt & Controls. I have a exceptional condition Johnson 88 HORSEPOWER SPL. I am going to take it in for a tune up tomorrow and ask how much it is worth. If you could use it please let me know and make an offer. I have the controls and it has trim / tilt. Everything included. Nice motor. Thanks! Rob or email. Apply online at ucsdguardian.org/classi -
fieds to Listing ID: 12401207
Viscount Racing Bike (Oceanside, CA) 
- $120. Shimano Parts. New tape. New cables. (All tuned up) 62 cm. Apply online at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds to Listing ID: 3568477
Antique Oak Captains Chair - $350 Rare 
Oak Captains Chair made by “Kenric & Efferson” probably around 1880. Original Label still on the back. Seat re-upholstered with Kid Glove Leather and hammer head tacks. Excellent condition, sturdy. $350.00 obo. Apply online at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds to Listing ID: 358677
tsurf.tlaugh.tshock.
m-f  •  library walk  • 10am-3pm    to.ucsd.eduyour outlet to campus culture.The Associated Students Store
t
www.twitter.com/TritonOutfitter www.facebook.com/tritonoutfitters
After losing to Sonoma State, 
UCSD now sits at No. 16 in the 
national ranking. The Tritons will face the Seawolves again on Friday, Nov. 4 at UCSD.  
Continuing their road trip up 
North, the Tritons managed to pull together a victory, beating Cal State East Bay 3-2.  
The Otters took the first two 
sets, 21-25 and 20-25, leading the match by halftime, and then the Tritons dug themselves out of the deficit and took the next three sets.“ At times we’ve shown that we 
can bounce back from being down, and I think as long as we keep get-ting better—and we know that we can—I think we’ll be secure for the rest of the season, ” Luyties said.
Following the second set the 
Tritons would have 35 kills to Cal State East Bay’s 26 kills.
UCSD took the third set with a 
commanding 25-12 score, and also won the fourth set 25-21 and the fifth set 15-13.
Williamson had another strong 
performance, recording amongst the top scorers, contributing 14 of UCSD’s 55 kills and 26 digs.
Despite having a lower hitting 
percentage, UCSD outblocked CSU East Bay 8-7. 
Brunsting recorded 26 assists 
and 16 digs, while freshman Lauren Demos had 12 kills. 
Sophomore Lizzy Andrews 
chipped in with nine kills and seven digs. On the opposing side of the net Katie Allen served up 16 kills and 10 digs of her own. The victory broke the Tritons’ losing streak, putting UCSD at 11-4 overall and 7-4 in the CCAA.
“On Monday we get the video of 
each team, and we’ll start scouting players to prepare for the coming matches, ” Luyties said. “But for us right now, a lot of it is fixing things on our side. So we’ll start working on some of the things that we’ve been struggling with. ”
The Tritons now sit in 4th place 
in the conference.  
UCSD will continue its away 
series on Friday Oct. 14 when the Tritons face 12-6 San Francisco State. /uni00A0
Readers can contact Tajh Walker at 
twalker@ucsd.eduTHE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY, OC TOBER 10, 2011 | WWW.UC SDGUARDIAN .ORG 11
Turn Your Current 
Project into a Competition Entry
Cornell Cup USA, presented by Intel
A college-level embedded design competition is seeking student teams to participate in the  inaugural competition. 
The final competition will be held in May 2012 at Walt Disney World’s Contemporary Resort.• 
Teams will have the opportunity to win up to $10,000.• 
The deadline to get your team registered and the application submitted is fast approaching.   
Deadlines  
Register to hold your team’s spot NOW! Full application due October 14.
For more information,  visit the Cornell Cup USA, presented by Intel website at 
www.systemseng.cornell.edu/intel/ or email us at cornellcupusa@cornell.edu.
STUDENT DISCOUNT WITH THIS AD!
COME BY EITHER OF
 OUR 2 LOCATIONS! 
8657 Villa La Jolla Drive "inside the mall above the Theater"
8650 Genesee Ave, "Next to the Post Office above Bristle Farms"    Costa Verde Center
Tritons Defeat CSU East Bay, Fall to CSUSB and Monterey Bay
▶ W. VOLLEYBALL, fromÊpageÊ12
He developed the bike to suit a 
rider he was not, instead becoming 
a rider for whom the violent bike could work. 
In 2004, the precision exhibited 
by Rossi’s Honda days were gone, replaced by the power of Y amaha had taken over. 
For the next six years, Rossi won 
three more championships with Y amaha, refining his machine until once again, many began to attribute his success to his bike. 
Moving to Ducati in 2011, the 
Desmosedici GP11 is notorious-ly hard to ride and bucks around much like the old Y amaha bike back in 2004. 
Similar to that year, Rossi has 
taken his crew and chief with him to Ducati, and although the results have not shown this time around, next year will be an amazing year for Ducati, as this song has been sung before with Rossi.
The GP11, the current Ducati 
race bike, will be changed next year to conform to the changing FIM rules on displacement. 
So this year Rossi has been 
focusing on the GP12, the changed version, 
This has limited his success in 
2011 but makes 2012, with a supe-rior set up that none of the other teams can match, almost a sure year for the Ducati.
A win in the coming year would 
bump Rossi to number one in the number of MotoGP Championships titles, currently held by Giacomo Agostini who holds eight champi-onship victories.Rossi Shows 
that the Bike Doesn’t Make the Biker
▶ HOWE, fromÊpageÊ12
Lenehan, who stormed to a second-
place finish with a time of 32:44 in the men’s 10k. Lenehan also led most of the race with a just a short stretch of ground between himself and the next pack of racers, which held almost the entire field of Triton competitors. UCSD finished 7th -10th, 12th -14th, 16th, 20th and 24th. Collectively, the Triton men performed very well, with their average time clocking in lower than 20 seconds than the next fastest team.
The men’s team is also in conten-
tion for regional dominance. The only question is if it can curb the behemoth that is Chico State, enough to finally knock it off its high horse before the conference championships on Oct. 22 in Santa Rosa.
Readers can contact Nick Howe at 
nshowe@ucsd.eduUCSD Cross 
Country Takes Home the Team Titles
▶ CROS S COU NTRY, fromÊpageÊ12SPORTSRACHEL UDA
sports @ucsdguardian.orgCONTACT THE EDITOR12 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MO NDAY , OCTOBER 10, 2011 | WWW.UC SDGUARDIAN .ORG
By Tajh Walker
Contributing Writer
The Tritons went 2-1 last week, suffering a loss at home against Cal State San Bernardino and coming up short to Cal 
State Monterey Bay, before beating Cal State East Bay on the road.
On Wednesday, the Tritons faced No. 3 Cal 
State San Bernardino, falling to the Coyotes in four sets. 
Against the undefeated Coyotes (11-0 over-all), the Tritons could only muster a win in the second set.
UCSD recorded 42 kills, 5 sets and 79 digs 
in the campaign. 
Although they regained momentum by 
outhitting the Coyotes in the second set, Cal State San Bernardino still managed to rack up a better hitting percentage overall: .245 to .107. 
Despite the loss, senior outside hitter 
Hillary Williamson finished with a double-double, tallying 16 kills and 12 digs. In addi-tion, senior libero Janessa Werhane would 
Front of the Pack
The 2011 season of MotoGp was poised to be Ducati’s resurgence after losing Casey Stoner to the Repsol Honda team.  
The swan song was supposed to be writ-
ten to the tune of the insatiable el Doctor  
Valentino Rossi weaving his seven-time 
World Championship magic with Ducati; the quintessential Italian man riding the quintes-sential Italian mark.
But things have not gone exactly to plan. 
Although Ducati and Rossi, along with American teammate Nicky Hayden, are sit-ting sixth and seventh respectively, they are behind Ducati’s former ace and winner of the 2007 MotoGP , Casey Stoner on the Repsol Honda RC211v as well as Rossi’s old team-mate and rival from Y amaha, Jorge Lorenzo, who won in 2010. 
Dragging behind these top dogs may seem 
like a failing on the part of the rider or his bike, but the truth of the matter is, Ducati is well on its way to a championship title next year. 
This is due to the skill of Rossi and his 
crew to get bikes and manufacturer teams going in the right direction.
The difference between a rider that has 
won seven championships—Rossi—and a rider that has won one (on his way to two, admittedly), Casey Stoner, is in the ability to convey effective changes in a bike’s handling and performance to the pit crew and chief. 
Without this line of communication, rid-
ers and their teams fail to develop a bike that suits a particular rider. 
Even a fast bike for one individual does 
not make it a fast bike for another racer.
Rossi started the 2011 season after under-
going surgery on his left shoulder, making his testing and set up of the Desmosedici GP11 sub par as the season got under way. 
However, after three races, he actually 
meddled at Le Mans in France, coming in third. 
This development, along with further 
changes in the FIM rules on the displace-ment of the engines, showed glimpses of the Rossi brilliance that first became apparent back in 2003.
The last year Rossi rode with Repsol 
Honda, 2003, the Y amaha team bike was notoriously hard to ride. The bike finished seventh overall, even in the hands of Carlos Checa, renowned two stroke rider from the 500cc era. 
Rossi won the overall championship in 
2003 on the infamously fast RC211v, and then took his entire pit crew and manage-ment to Y amaha. 
Without changing the unruly bike much 
at all, Rossi changed his riding technique to suit the Y amaha, while other riders continued struggling with the bike, such as Checa, who finished seventh again in 2004.
By changing his riding style and with 
the effective support of his pit crew’s quick changes, Rossi won it all in 2004 on the same bike that could barely keep its tail in line in 2003. 
The bike did not change dramatically, 
it was not majorly redesigned and even the paint scheme remained unchanged. 
Rossi’s skills did not improve dramatically, 
but he had such a good working communica-tion with his engineers that he could request a change that would actually make the bike more violent, and thus easier to ride for him. 
Tritons End Three-Game Skid
By Nick HoweSenior Staff Writer
The Triton cross country teams trounced the competition this weekend in the annual Triton Cross Country Invite, tak-
ing both team titles against strong competition from Division I schools.
Coach Nate Garcia said he was hopeful going 
into the meet, knowing his team was in a good place mentally and physically to make a strong showing. 
“It may sound cliche, but you always go out 
looking to do a little bit better, ” Garcia said the day before the meet. “ And you know, you go for the win. ”The women’s team took to the particularly 
challenging UCSD home course first for its 6k run. Junior Chia Chang and freshman Michelle LeRoux went straight to the head of the pack at the starting gun and successfully fought to hold their positions the entire race, finishing in third at 22:17.5 and fourth at 22:18.9, respectively. 
The Tritons did not record their fastest times 
at the meet, but the difficulty of UCSD’s course — replete with hills, valleys and dusty, muddy trails — differs dramatically from the flat grass fields where a lot of their other competitions have taken place.
This weekend, freshman Dani Brabender 
came in 10th, senior Aaryn Kobayashi came in 12th, junior Ximena Cruz came in 14th, senior Kathryn Turner in 15th, freshman Alia Bales in 18th and freshman Madison Tanner came in 20th. 
The Tritons finished eight top 20 runners in 
a race composed of more than 120 athletes, and the Triton women easily took first place in the team component of the race. 
This season, the women’s cross country team 
is ripe with young talent, and runners filled with the desire to better themselves and beat the girl ahead. And with six freshmen and only four seniors, the year can only get better as these “baby” Tritons mature. 
The men’s team was led by junior Matt Left, Center
NICK HOWE
nshowe@ucsd.eduTackle
Ducati’s el Doctor  
Returns to 
Prominence
See HOWE, page 11contribute 29 digs of her own, while senior 
Roxanne Brunsting would have five kills, 18 assists and 16 digs. 
Cal State San Bernardino standouts, 
Samantha Middleborn and Morgan Carty boasted 26 kills collectively. 
“We haven’t been playing our best these 
past few weeks, ” head coach Ricci Luyties said. “In the past few matches we’ve strug-gled in a lot of areas of play, against San Bernardino, Monterey Bay, East Bay, we just haven’t been at the top of our game. ”
On Friday, the Tritons were dealt 
another disappointing loss as they met un-ranked Cal State Monterey Bay on the road. 
Monterey Bay started strong, victori-
ous in the first two sets of the match. Monterey Bay’s Rhean Fall racked up a hitting percentage of .268 and recorded 23 kills to lead the Otters.
The scores were 19-25, 29-31, 25-21 
and 21-25. UCSD and CSUMB would go back and forth throughout the game, with 
a total of 17 lead changes. 
Outblocking Cal State Monterey Bay 
14-8, the Tritons trailed the Otters in kills (52-62), assists (49-58) and digs (84-93).
Brunsting totaled 18 assists and 25 
digs. She would also have a .333 hit-ting percentage, tying Monique Sena of Cal State Monterey Bay for the top spot. Williamson would offer 12 kills and 15 digs, with 19 assists from freshman Amber Hawthorne. 
This is the first time since September 
2010 that the Tritons have been dealt three consecutive losses. 
BRIAN  YIP/GUARDIAN  FILE
The Tritons took the last of their three games against CSU East Bay, before dropping to CSU Monterey Bay and undefeated Sonoma.
See W. VOLLEYBALL, page 11NOLAN  THOMAS /GUARDIAN
See CROSS COUNTRY, page 11Valentino Rossi looks to 
capture his eighth championship victory in 2012.MEN’S WATERPOLO
MEN’S/WOMEN’S SOCCER
WOMEN’S VOLLEYBALL10/12
10/1410/1410/1410/15AT CSU Long BeachVS UC Santa BarbaraVS CSU Los AngelesAT San Francisco StateAT CHICO STATE
UPCOMING
UCSD
GAMES