THURSDAY WEDNESDAYSPOKEN SPOKEN SURFÊREPORT INSIDE NIGHTÊWATCH
THURSDAY
Height: 3-4 ft.
Wind: 2-8 mph
Water Temp: 67 FFRIDAY
Height:  4-8 ft.
Wind: 11-14 mph
Water Temp: 67 F
SATURDAY
Height:  3-5 ft.
Wind: 5-9 mph 
Water Temp: 67 FSUNDAY
Height: 3-4 ft.
Wind: 5-9 mph 
Water Temp: 67 FLOW
$3.57
Valero, San Diego - South
2029 La Media Rd.
HIGH
$4.29
Shell, Del Mar
3015 Del Mar Heights Rd.THURSDAY FRIDAYTHURSDAY
H 63 L 53FRIDAY
H 68 L 55 THURSDAY FRIDAYGAS PRICES SURF RE PORT NIGHT  WATCH FORECAST WEB POLL
DO YOU FEEL SAFE ON CAMPUS? 
√  Yes
√  NoSUNRI SE
6:46  A.M.
6:27  P .M.SATURDAY
H 72 L 57SUNDAY
H 70 L 58 SUNDAY SATURDAY WWW.UCSDGUAR DIAN.O RGCOMICS ................................... 2
NEW BUSINESS ...................... 3FREE FOR ALL ......................... 4LETTERS TO  THE EDITOR .... 5
DRUTHERS .............................. 6CLASSIFIEDS ........................... 9SPORTS .................................. 12
SUNSET
UCPD
LiquorÊLawÊViolationsÊTopÊ
CampusÊCrimeÊStats
By John Baldwin
Contributing Writer
The UC Police Department’s Annual Security Report for 2011 revealed there were 41 recorded instances of 
burglary on the UCSD campus and its affiliated areas in 2010.“Theft of unsecured property, 
[including]/uni00A0 laptops, continues to be an issue. ” Police Chief Orville King said in an email.
King emphasized the importance of 
using locks and keeping one’s property safe to prevent burglary.
The University has successfully 
reduced annual motor vehicle thefts on campus, which dropped from 54 to 24 since 2008.
The report indicates one instance of 
murder on the UCSD campus on Oct. 29, when the dead body of Carlsbad resident Lorena Gonzalez was found in a burning van in Lot 701. This is the first recorded murder on the UCSD campus in recent history.
In addition, there were 57 liquor 
law arrests in 2010 from 86 in 2009, and 16 drug arrests in 2010 from 40.
This is largely due to changes in 
policing outlook for major events such as the Sun God Festival.
“Enforcement of alcohol laws 
[arrests] were down, due largely to a change in tactics and philosophy at the Sun God Festival – with greater emphasis on keeping officers in the field to ensure public safety rather than focusing on arrests, ” King said. “Enforcement actions were used more selectively during the festival in 2010 as a tool, not a goal. ”
According to Police Captain David 
Rose, the report statistics do not necessarily communicate the exact year-to-year changes in criminal activity at UCSD, in part due to differences in accounting for crimes from year to year. The report’s counts for liquor laws discipline rose from five to 1,050 and the counts for drug laws discipline from 17 to 94 over the past year due to the inclusion of new disciplinary data from the ALUMNUS 
AND SCRIPPS CHAIR WINS NOBEL PRIZE
By Laira Martin
News Editor
Revelle College alumnus and chair 
of the Department of Genetics at the Scripps Research Institute Dr. Bruce Beutler, 53, is sharing the 2011 Nobel Prize in physiology or medicine for 
his recent discov-eries of how the immune system innately works. Beutler is cur-rently in the pro-cess of leaving La Jolla to work at the University of Texas.
“I noticed that 
I had a new email message, ” Beutler said in an interview with Nobel Media. “ And, I squinted at it and I saw that the title line was ‘Nobel Prize, ’ so I thought I should give close attention to that. And, I opened it and it was from Goran Hansson, and it said that I had won the Nobel Prize, and so I was thrilled. ”
Beutler earned his share of the 
award for his contribution in the discovery of receptor proteins that recognize bacterial microorgan-isms which then activate immunity. Beutler shares one half of the prize with Jules Hoffmann of the University Dr.ÊBruceÊBeutlerÊsharesÊ
theÊNobelÊPrizeÊinÊmed-icineÊandÊphysiology.
See NOBEL,Ê page 3
By Aimly Sirisarnsombat
Staff Writer
The UCSD Police Department recently 
faced two incidents involving student pos-session and misuse of replica guns on campus, both violations of the Student Conduct Code.
The first case was reported to have 
occurred at 2:10 a.m. on Sept. 17. Allegedly, the student pointed a replica toy firearm at a Residential Security Officer who was investigating an unrelated incident in a residence hall. The second case, which occurred at 1:07 a.m. on Sept. 20, involved three students walking around campus carrying replica toy guns. The students were later caught and the replica weapons were surrendered. 
Members of the UCSD PD have been trained 
to respond defensively and with deadly force if campus safety is threatened by a student’s posses-sion of a firearm — regardless of its authenticity — according to a press release by Vice Chancellor of Student Affairs Penny Rue on Sept. 27. 
“This extremely dangerous behavior threatens 
the health and safety of the UCSD community and is of the highest level of concern for the over-all safety and well-being of our campus commu-nity, ” Rue said in a Sept. 27 campus-wide notice regarding the incidents. “In a post-Virginia Tech climate, the University has taken significant steps to ensure the safety of all its members. ”
These cases of replica or toy gun use violate 
the UCSD Student Conduct Code, which enforc-es that student possession of any kind of firearm, regardless of authenticity, is subject to sus-pension or dismissal from the University. Students engaged in such misconduct either on- or off-campus may also face legal con-sequences; Section 417.4 of the California Penal Code calls for criminal persecution in such situations.
Communication director Rex Graham 
and UCSD spokesperson Christine Clark could not comment due to the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), which restricts the release of information on violations to the UCSD Student Conduct Code and disciplinary actions from the university to students. Due to FERPA, the 
university is also unable to comment on open investigations, a category under which Graham confirms both incidents fall.
Readers can contact Aimly Sirisarnsombat at 
tsirisar@ucsd.eduSAFETYACADEMICS
ERIK JEPSEN /GUARDIAN
UCSDÊPDÊDeemsÊReplicaÊGunsÊaÊCampusÊThreatSee CRIME,Ê page 3
Bruce Beutler
Nobel Laureate
CRIMES BY 
THE NUMBERS 
57  Liquor Law Violations
41  Burglary
24  Motor Vehicle Theft
16  Drug Law Arrests
  4  Weapons Arrest
  3  Sex Offense
  2  Aggravated Assault
  2  Arson
  1  Murder
*According to the UC 
Police Department’s Annual 
Security Report
LiquorÊlawÊviolationsÊ
andÊburglariesÊsweepÊannualÊcampusÊcrimeÊreport.WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG MONDAY , OCTOBER 06, 2011 VOLUME 45, ISSUE 5
NICOLE  OLIVER /GUARDIAN
KIDS WITH PUMPED UP KICKS
PAGE 122                                                                                                                                    THE UC SD GU ARDIAN  | TH URSDAY,  SEPTEMBER 29, 2011 | W WW.UCSDGU ARDIAN.ORG 
TheÊ UCSDÊ GuardianÊ isÊ publishedÊ MondaysÊ andÊ
ThursdaysÊduringÊtheÊacademicÊyearÊbyÊUCSD ÊstudentsÊ
andÊ forÊ theÊ UCSDÊ community.Ê ReproductionÊ ofÊ thisÊnewspaperÊ inÊ anyÊ form,Ê whetherÊ inÊ wholeÊ orÊ inÊ part,ÊwithoutÊ permissionÊ isÊ strictlyÊ prohibited.Ê ©Ê 2011,Ê allÊrightsÊreserved.ÊTheÊUCSDÊGuardianÊisÊnotÊresponsibleÊforÊtheÊreturnÊofÊunsolicitedÊmanuscriptsÊorÊart.ÊTheÊviewsÊexpressedÊhereinÊdoÊnotÊnecessarilyÊrepresentÊtheÊopin-ionsÊofÊtheÊUCSDÊGuardian,ÊtheÊUniversityÊofÊCaliforniaÊorÊAssociatedÊStudents.ÊTheÊUCSDÊGuardianÊisÊfundedÊbyÊadvertising.ÊPabloÊNarada.
GeneralÊEditorial:Ê858-534-6580Ê
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News:Ê news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion:Ê opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports:Ê sports@ucsdguardian.org
Focus:Ê focus@ucsdguardian.org
Leisure:Ê leisure@ucsdguardian.org
Hiatus:Ê hiatus@ucsdguardian.org Ê
Photo:Ê photo@ucsdguardian.orgBusiness Manager
EmilyÊKuÊ
Marketing & Advertising Director
BrandonÊKatzer
Webmaster
BryanÊSmith
Marketing Assistant
ChristineÊAlabastro
Advertising Design & Layout 
AlfredoÊH.ÊVilanoÊJr.
A.S.ÊGraphicÊStudio Ê
Distributor
AmandaÊKuPage Layout
PraneetÊKolluru,ÊArielleÊSallaiAngelaÊChen
ArielleÊSallai
MargaretÊYau
LairaÊMartin
NicoleÊChan
RebeccaÊHorwitz
MargaretÊYau
MadelineÊMann
RachelÊUda
MinaÊNilchian
RenÊEbel
MonicaÊHaider
EmilyÊPham
AndrewÊOh
PraneetÊKolluru
RebekahÊHwangEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
Associate News Editors
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Associate
Focus/Le isure Editor
Hiatus Editor
Copy Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editor
HayleyÊBisceglia-Martin
MelodyÊChernDevelopment Editor
Design Program Director
ScentÊCouldÊEnhanceÊTelevisionÊViewingÊSCIENCEÊANDÊTECHNOLOGY
By Kashi Khorasani
Staff Writer
The future of television 
entertainment may be upon us. In partnership with Samsung, a UCSD research team published an article in the international edition of Angewandte 
Chemie, a German scientific journal, proving that smell can realistically be added to visual entertainment systems such as television and cellular phones. 
Professor of Mechanical and 
Aerospace Engineering Sungho Jin’s research brings us one step closer to an odor-enhanced television experience. In April, Jin and his team completed a two-year research experiment on a system that can give off specific odors on command. Jin does not expect any difficulty programming this system to give off scents in synchronization with images on a television. 
Jin’s system utilizes a number of 
isolated elastic polymer-based chambers containing different liquids. These odorous solutions go through electrically induced heating and are subsequently released in gaseous form. 
Jin — a nanoengineering professor — has placed a great deal of scrutiny upon the materials and the methods used to shape them.
The chambers are made of a 
silicone elastomer, which is a rubber-like polymer that offers a variety of benefits to the user. These perks include mechanical elasticity, proper circuit isolation between divergent components and resistance in extreme temperatures. The latter attribute is particularly advantageous considering the liquids must essentially be boiled in 
CORRECTIONS
On Oct. 3, an article entitled 
“Business Minor Now Available to Students” incorrectly attributed the Assistant Dean of the Rady School of Management as Jordan Clark. His name is Clark Jordan.AS PER USUA L By Dami Lee
CLOSED QUA RTERS By Kat Truonga
The Guardian  corrects all errors 
brought to the attention of the editors. Corrections can be sent to editor@ucsdguardian.org.
See SCI/TECH,Ê page 3THE UC SD GU ARDIAN  | TH URSDAY,  SEPTEMBER 29, 2011 | W WW.UCSDGU ARDIAN.ORG 3
A.S. Council had a wonderful 
bonding moment at the beginning 
of the meeting when A.S. Graphics Studio Senior Designer Alfredo 
Vilano  gathered everyone around the 
table for the first A.S. family photo of the year.
While everyone 
could agree, I’m sure, that the moment was adorable, many of the council members were caught off-guard –
there had been heavy rain falling 
right before the meeting. Don’t worry, A.S. Council, the picture probably looks great, and all that hair ruffling truly made you guys shine.
Next, A.S. Council continued with 
everyone’s favorite A.S. segment, Council Member of the Week.
“Today, I will be bestowing the 
all-too-glittery sash to our AVP of Athletic Relations, Aurora Lopez ,”  
Vice President of Student Life Meredith Madnick said.
Lopez received her award shortly 
after announcing that after next Friday’s Bear Garden, A.S. Council will be handing out free swim caps to students attending the Men’s Water Polo game. Let’s face it: All sports fans need an official swim cap.
Like all loving families, there was a 
lot of bickering last night, especially with regards to the new election bylaws. A.S. Council was faced with some philosophical questions: How do you define loitering? How do you separate Student Organizations and Slates? Is uniform wording necessary to uniform understanding with phrases like “may be, ” “shall be, ” or “could be?” So many hard decisions were made that night.
The pressure was just too much 
for a lot of council members. Many even had to excuse themselves during the discussion. Over an hour later, the new bylaws were set in stone and the Price Center Forum erupted in applause.
Then, keeping 
the excitement alive, A.S. President Alyssa 
Wing  and A.S. 
Vice President of Finance Kevin 
Hoang  gave an 
informational  
budget presentation. Hoang described the A.S. budget as a big cloud of money, meaning that it’s all one budget instead of an allocated amount for each department.
“So it’s like a cloud, and we make 
it rain, ” Wing said. “I just thought of that just now. ”
Sophomores, juniors and seniors 
might be wondering when the details of Fall Fest will be released. Today, A.S. Associated Vice President of Concerts and Events Oliver Zhang announced 
that Fall Fest is going to be replaced by a new event called Hullabaloo.
“[A hullabaloo is] a loud noise or 
clamor, ” Zhang explained. “I don’t know [why we chose it], it’s just cute. ”
Unlike Fall Fest, which consists of 
three acts on one stage, Hullabaloo will have a main stage, student organization booths, food trucks and free carnival rides. So, it’s basically like a mini Sun God mixed with Bear Garden and the fair. Hullabaloo indeed.
“[Fall Fest] is an event that needed a 
new life, ” Zheng said.
The teaser trailer for the event will 
be released this Friday.
The meeting closed shortly 
after a round of pats on the back for conducting a short, productive meeting. Congratulations, A.S. Council. We are all very proud of you.
New
NATALIE COVATE
ncovate@ucsd.edu
BusinessMuchÊAdoÊAboutÊHullabalooÊÑÊ
A.S.ÊRevampsÊFallÊFestÊThisÊYear
STUDENT DISCOUNT WITH THIS AD!
COME BY EITHER OF
 OUR 2 LOCATIONS! 
8657 Villa La Jolla Drive "inside the mall above the Theater"
8650 Genesee Ave, "Next to the Post Office above Bristle Farms"    Costa Verde Center
of Strasbourg in France — the other 
half was awarded to Ralph Steinman of Rockefeller University in New Y ork, who died on Sept. 30, three days before receiving the Nobel Prize on Oct. 3. 
Beutler is leaving the Scripps 
Research Institute to accept the position of professor and director of the Center for the Genetics of Host Defense at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center. Beutler’s position at 
UT will begin in Nov. 2011. /uni00A0“I will certainly miss Scripps, but 
the opportunity at UT Southwestern is enormous, ” Beutler said in the Oct. 3 article “Scripps Geneticist Wins Nobel Prize” in The San Diego Union Tribune . ” There are new challenges 
ahead that I just couldn’t turn down. ”
Beutler graduated from UCSD 
at age 18 in 1976 and then attended University of Chicago for medical school. His father is Scripps Research hematologist Ernest Beutler, who spent time in La Jolla researching treatments 
for rare forms of cancer prior to dying in Oct. 2008 from lymphoma. 
Beutler and Hoffmann will travel 
to Stockholm on Dec. 10 to accept the prize from the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences which includes a cash prize of about $1 million dollars — some of which will go to the Steinman’s estate.
Beutler could not be reached for 
comment.
Readers can contact Laira Martin at 
lmm002@ucsd.edu/uni25B6 NOBEL, from page 1Alumnus and Nobel Laureate Leaves Scripps for New Job in T exas
Burglary Rates Remain Stagnant while Liquor Law Arrests Drop
Student Conduct Office and UC Police Department officials. 
“These changes reflect a more 
effective, efficient and thorough way of reporting these violations, ” King said.
King added that the sample size 
and crime statistics made it difficult to estimate long-term crime trends.
“Numbers of crimes in other 
categories [besides burglary] were relatively unchanged in 2011 from previous years, ” King said. 
The report contains statistics describing counts of crimes at UCSD for 2008, 2009 and 2010 using information compiled from the UCSD Police Department, the Campus Security Authorities, the Student Conduct Office and other campus areas. The statistics are separated into 15 categories, from less severe crimes such as liquor law arrests to the severe crimes such as homicide, and are organized by the location of the crime.
The reports only take into account 
crimes reported to the campus police and security authorities and do not 
take account for unreported crimes or those reported to other agencies.
The UCSD police department is 
legally required to release the annual report as part of the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Crime Statistics Act, a federal law passed in 1990. Reports of liquor law arrests dropped from 86 to 57 since 2009 and drug law arrests dropped from 40 to 16 since 2009.
Readers can contact John Baldwin at 
jcbaldwi@ucsd.edu
Scent T echnology Developed With Financial Support from Samsung
order to be released as gasses.
The polymer-based material is 
produced via a cross-linked technique, which prevents solvents from entering or damaging the chambers.
Plotting the controller system 
design on a Cartesian coordinate system allows researchers to fit more switches on a smaller surface area. The efficiency of this method requires far less controllers than a system in which there is a single dedicated switch for each odor. In future research, Jin plans to explore a 3D matrix which would depend on less controllers, further minimizing the size of the device. “This is a very good way for 
companies to market their products during commercials, ” Jin said.
Whether the masses have actually 
displayed a large demand for an olfactory-enriched entertainment experience, innovators have worked on similar projects for some time now. 
Osmologist Hans Luabe worked 
alongside a film crew in 1960 to create Smell-O-Vision, one of the first ever such systems. However, this creation could only release 30 scents and did not function properly. A few other attempts made since then have failed, until now. 
“It is quite doable, ” said Jin.
The apparatus developed at UCSD, 
with financial support from Samsung Electronics, is considered to be a conceptual research model. After further research, all that is left to do is to create a realistic concept that can be attached to a television set.
Jin addressed how the collaboration 
between he and his fellow researchers made a big impact on smell-based technology.
“When you get together and share 
ideas, things just click, ” Jin said.
Readers can contact Kashi Khorasani  at 
kkhorasa@ucsd.edu./uni25B6 SCI/TECH, from page 2/uni25B6 CRIME, from page 1OPINIONMARGARET YAU
opinion @ucsdguardian.orgCON TACT THE EDITOR4 THE UC SD G UAR DIAN  | MO DND AY, OCTOB ER 06, 2011 | WWW. UCSDG UAR DIAN.ORG
At some point between zero 
and first week, I became disil-lusioned with the process 
behind campus free food. Don’t get me wrong — I was still subscribed to that free food Facebook group. But my tolerance for awkward pleasantries with strangers was weakening — as was my ability to stomach tepid pieces of Round Table pizza. 
After polling my coworker’s sug-
gestions, I was ready to spend money on the exact opposite of free food. More specifically, I was ready to drop twenty-something dollars on the glut-tonous meat-orgy known as all-you-can-eat Korean BBQ. 
There are no tricks in all you can 
eat Korean BBQ. Well, except some-times, with the meat. Seriously, choose a decent restaurant. Our choice of Manna Korean BBQ in Convoy revealed no food secrets, thankfully. 
But between cooking and ordering 
and waving over a waitress for more, the strategy behind a Korean meat buffet is to eat your money’s worth. 
As an avid buffet-fearer, I did not 
feel ready to ingest $20 worth of meat and pickles. My friends obviously did not feel the same way. One had been fasting for a full day. Another had a bottomless pit for a stomach. And yet another was male.
Ten plates of meat later, it was 
obvious who had won the game of eating your money’s worth. I’ll give you a hint: it wasn’t me. I clutching my stomach in between delicate sips of barley tea, recoiling in horror as my friends contemplated ordering their 11th plate of meat. 
As we bemoaned the state of our 
stomachs (#firstworldproblems), my friends and I reflected on lessons learned from that night:
First, red meat is the most expen-
sive thing on the menu — don’t go too heavy on the chicken. If you want your money’s worth, order expensive cuts like sirloin steak and pork belly.
Second, that being said, the includ-
ed side dishes are usually phenomenal. Try the egg custard, try the tofu stew, but remember to not fill up on rice. 
Third, don’t try to screw with the 
restaurant. They have clearly seen every trick in the book and their rules are clearly laid on their menu. Stocking your meat freezer at home by ordering extra take-home plates of meat will land you a fat surcharge. Everybody at your table has to order the same option — all meat or the pricier seafood version — in case the splurger with the shrimp shares.
Fourth, don’t wear clothes that are 
too restrictive. That’s pretty much a given for any buffet, and unless you want to make a show of loosening your belt one notch, stick to the elastic waistband. Jackets can also be used to hide burgeoning food babies. 
These lessons are secondary to 
the actual experience of all you can eat Korean BBQ. I may have spent an excessive amount of time there wor-rying about actually eating $20 worth of food (I probably didn’t), but in the end, being there with good company, good food and endless amounts of meat and pickles was worth any price. Kind of.The Steaks are 
High When It’s All You Can Eat 
Free 
for All
MARGARET YAU
m1yau@ucsd.edu
Free 
for 
Drafting Equality
A full 15 years after the state 
banned affirmative action with Proposition 209, Gov. 
Jerry Brown has the chance to over-turn the controversial statute with a new bill. The bill’s proponents are careful to emphasize that Senate Bill 185 will not completely overturn Proposition 209 — the wording of the bill allows the University of California and California State uni-versities to merely “receive” data on an applicant’s racial background as long as no preference is given. But, as the UC Berkeley College Republicans were quick to point out in their con-troversial bake sale protest, it is hog-wash. Universities, once they receive this information, will likely use it to strengthen the ethnic diversity of their incoming freshmen classes. Whether using race in admissions is a good move or not is still up for debate.
In the debate on equal oppor-
tunity, our Editorial Board falls on the side of equal opportunity. We believe that leveling the playing field for disadvantaged students is crucial to extending a shot at higher educa-tion for greater numbers of students. But this is not to say that our board unequivocally backs SB 185. While the bill has its merits — the bill’s 
See SENATE BILL, page 5It’s not difficult for a student with a humanities or social science degree to understand the real question that’s being asked: “can I get a stable job with a degree in history or ethnic studies?” 
Coming out of an elite public university like UCSD, I would say: 
yes. I got a humanities degree, and now I have a job. 
But that question (and my answer) doesn’t have much to do 
with the greater value of the humanities and social sciences, as I see it. 
First of all, you should know that from the beginning, the 
“specialization” of the humanities as a source of knowledge wasn’t intended to create a specialized profession in the Matrix. 
It was designed to help people figure out ways to break out of 
the Matrix: to go about bringing its destruction, or allowing it to work in the service of the Human Project — a project to cease-lessly re-imagine what it means to be human, and to figure out what we have to do in order to make self-determining cultures and communities possible in a world of mass destruction, genocide, overproduction, profit-for-profit’s-sake, religious fundamentalism, environmental catastrophe, and all the psychological, political and social cancers that arise from these. 
Some people get to that project through the sociological study 
on the use of cell phones for education in India; some get to it through the set design of a play by Wole Soyinka. 
So, although my students in the social sciences and humani-
ties end up entering all kinds of professions — from medicine and law to web content management, from journalism and advocacy to business entrepreneur or community service, from public health to education, and of course, the creative arts — my ultimate goal is not to “teach to the profession” but to give students the intelligence and courage to discover their vocation on their own terms. 
Have the courage to use your own reason. See something of 
yourself in others, and others in you. 
Think globally, act locally. Y ou need certain skills to do these: critical thinking, historical 
method, foreign language competency, reading analysis, commu-nication, the power of rhetorical and artistic self-expression, and intellectual empathy. 
That’s pretty much what we teach. The rest is up to you. 
— John D. Blanco
Professor of LiteratureUC President Mark Yudof ’s question last year, “Our businesses are doing well, but who is going to pay the salary of the English depart-ment?” , created a dustup across the 10 UC campuses. /uni00A0His backped-
aling about the product of a liberal arts education and the obvious impor-tance of the humanities and social sciences only raised more doubt about the extent to which a UC education was about to be high-cost vocational training and the UC system a series of private corporations.
Moreover, students and their families, faced with rising fees and the inevi-
tability of post-graduation debt, logically asked themselves about the value of pursuing a major that could not return a decent income. This is a logical response to bleak economic forecasts. 
But it should not be forgotten that those disciplines and majors that do 
not “generate revenue” in terms of federal and private funding generate something of equal importance: the ability to understand how societies and cultures came to be, how they work and how they can be transformed.
The hanging of a noose in Geisel library during Winter 2010 produced a 
number of reactions. /uni00A0Those students who understood the historical signifi-cance of the noose were understandably outraged. Because they lacked suf-ficient knowledge in the history of race relations in the United States, other students were clueless. /uni00A0“Why are the African American students overacting?” they asked. /uni00A0“Just get over it, ” they advised.
This latter group of students was in dire need of humanities and social 
science courses. /uni00A0Our historical past is never really completely past. /uni00A0Its rem-nants reappear in our present and will resurface in our collective future.
Former UCSD professor of philosophy Herbert Marcuse once wrote: “For 
if ‘education’ is more than training and preparing for the existing society, it means not only enabling students to know and understand the facts which make up reality but also to know and understand the factors that establish the facts so that they can change the existing inhuman reality. ”
Today, there is a real danger that students enter higher education as train-
ees for predetermined majors and careers. /uni00A0They are fitted with disciplinary blinders and become indifferent to the pressing issues of the day and the his-torical legacies that created them.
But many young people sense strongly that many aspects of existing real-
ity are unjust. /uni00A0They feel the need for spaces where they can learn to under-stand those injustices, debate their causes with their peers and chart a course to a more equitable future. /uni00A0This is precisely why the humanities and social sciences continue to matter.
— Jorge Mariscal
Professor of Literature and Co-Director of DOC Social Sciences Provide a Wider Perspective The Humanities T each Personal Discovery
EDITORIALON THE RECORDGIVEN THE  GENE RALLY MOR E STABLE CA REER OPPOR TUNITIES AVAILABLE  TO 
STUDENTS GRADU ATING WITH S CIENCE  AND TECH DE GREES,  WHA T IS THE 
VALUE OF OB TAINING  A DE GREE IN THE HUMANITIES AND S OCIAL S CIENCES?
PHILIP  JIA/GUARDIAN
Angela Chen
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Arielle Sallai
Margaret Yau
MANAG ING EDI TOR S
Laira Martin
NEWS EDI TOR
Madeline Mann
ASSOCIATE OP INION EDI TOREDITORIAL  BOARD
The UCSD Guardian  is published twice a week 
at the University of California at San Diego. 
Contents © 2011. Views expressed herein 
represent the majority vote of the editorial board 
and are not necessarily those of the UC Board 
of Regents, the ASUCSD or the members of the 
Guardian  staff. Senate Bill 185 would allow colleges to recieve racial information on 
college applicants, but ignores a critical disadvantage for students — 
socioeconomic status.THE MENTA L FISHBOWL By Alex Nguyen 
THE UC SD G UAR DIAN  | MO NDAY, OCTOB ER 06, 2011 | WWW. UCSDG UAR DIAN.ORG 5
Dear Editor,
The San Diego Union-Tribune   
now requires commenters to 
identify themselves through their Facebook accounts, with their real names displayed alongside their comments.
Will you require readers to 
identify themselves before printing letters-to-the-editor in the print edition?
Will the people in your advisory 
committee like Bill Walton be iden-tified with photos?
(When I see him next, I’ll 
ask/uni00A0Bill if he has shares in Facebook). 
Why don’t the seven com-
ments/uni00A0after the article notifying your online readership of this poli-cy/uni00A0decision have photos?/uni00A0
Why are they all 100 percent 
in favor?/uni00A0Can we be sure that they don’t work for the U-T?
Why don’t the seven com-
ments/uni00A0after the article about the embezzlement of Sen. Feinstein’s campaign funds — all of which are toxic — have photos? 
What do you do with the pho-
tos?/uni00A0 What meaning can they pos-sibly have for you?
 —Richard Thompson
Alumnus ‘83
Dear Editor,
We are currently facing devastat-
ing environmental crises, and these are due to: (1) human overpopula-tion and (2) over-consumption with consequent waste. 
In October, our population will 
reach 7 billion and it continues to grow at a rate of 3.2 people (births over deaths) per second,140 people/min, 200,000/day, 80 million/year.
Worldwide, an estimated 850 
million people suffer from malnu-trition or are starving; the world food surplus would last only two months if we share the resources equally, the lowest in decades. 50,000 people die from starvation every day; 16 million per year. 
Thus, 12 percent of the world 
population is lacking the nutrition it needs. 
Y et we Americans (and others) 
suffer from obesity and overeating; we use a million plastic bottles/min, a million plastic bags/min, 100,000 aluminum cans/min and retire (lose, break or throw away) 500,000 cell phones/day. 
In San Diego, we generate 1.4 
million tons of waste per year. 
The 6,400,000 car accidents/year 
in the U.S. kill 45,000 people, injure 3 million and cost $230 billion. Californians use 100 billion gallons of gas/year; SUVs and pick-ups are two times more likely to kill another driver, four times more likely to roll over and 20 percent more likely to kill a kid. Auto crashes are the lead-ing cause of death for the age group 6-27 years. 
Almost all bike fatalities result 
from car accidents.  
Do we really need to consume 
and waste like this?
 —Milton Saier
Professor of Molecular Biology
▶ The Guardian  welcomes letters from its readers. 
All letters must be addressed, and written, to 
the editor of the Guardian . Letters are limited 
to 500 words, and all letters must include the writer’s name, college and year (undergraduates), department (graduate students or professors) or city of residence (local residents). A maximum of three signatories per letter is permitted. The Guardian Editorial Board reserves the right to 
edit for length, accuracy, clarity and civility. The Editorial Board reserves the right to reject letters for publication. Due to the volume of mail we receive, we do not confirm receipt or publication of a letter.Comments on Articles 
Forfeit Reader PrivacyLETTERS  TO THE EDITOR
Every year, UCSD graduates choose the PharmD
Program at the University of Michigan College of Pharmacy. In fact, nearly 20 percent of our
PharmD enrollment is comprised of alumni fromCalifornia universities. 
What accounts for Michigan’s popularity among
Golden Staters? First, we are consistently ranked amongAmerica’s top pharmacy schools. Secondly, we consider a lot more than GPA and PCAT scores when evaluating
your application.
Earn your bachelor’s degree at UCSD, and then earn
your PharmD at U-M. That’s what many UCSD studentsdo every year.
To learn more about the PharmD Program at
Michigan, visit our Web site at www.umich.edu/~pharmacy .
Or contact the College of Pharmacy at 734-764-7312(mich.pharm.admissions@umich.edu ).
Your future never looked brighter.
Meet some alumni of
California universitieswho recently enrolledas University ofMichigan PharmD students.
Look no further than 
the University of Michigan.
Still looking for a reason to make Michigan yourpharmacy
school? Consider these :
1. Financial support unequalled by any other U.S. pharmacy
school.
2. Outstanding pay .
3. Job security in economically uncertain times.
4. Unlimited opportunities to improve people’s lives .
5. Unparalleled career choices .
6. Continuous growth potential .
7. Life and career mobility .
8. The prestige of owning a degree from one of America’s 
top-ranked pharmacy schools.
9.Membership in an influential alumni network spanning 
the globe.
10.The power to apply medical knowledge at the forefront of
technological innovation.
11.Small class size to maximize individualized educational 
experiences.
12.One-to-one learning with world-renowned faculty .Looking for a great pharmacy school?
Dealing with a Bipolar 
Environmental CrisisLooking Beyond Race Increases Opportunities 
writers recognized that after Prop. 209 passed, admis-
sions for black and Latino students dipped — its exclusive focus on race, ethnicity and gender ignore an equally important category: socioeconomic back-ground.
The effects of Proposition 209 have been mixed. 
Consequential changes in the racial makeup on University of California campuses have varied — while the Asian population has dramatically risen, the black and Latino populations have dropped. Fierce opponents of the bill have denounced the systemwide admission process of judging each student by the same admission bar, no matter the economic back-ground, because it allegedly perpetuates a racially tiered society. 
We agree. Different backgrounds shape oppor-
tunities. Socioeconomic background is especially important — more importantly, it is not necessarily dependent on race. Considered alone, the economic background of a student can adversely affect their SAT scores, according to “Colleges urged to use socioeconomic affirmative action, ” a June 16 article in USA Today. The gap can be as great as 784 SAT points between the wealthiest and the most disadvan-taged students. Colleges can offer all the financial aid they want, but until they actively admit lower-income students on a broader admissions matrix, socially and economically disadvantaged students will continue to be concentrated in the least-selective schools. 
Undoubtedly, Senate Bill 185 is a contentious 
issue, if the Sept. 27 Berkeley College Republican bake sale is any indication. Still, no matter what the main defining factor in college admissions ends up being, equal opportunity must be provided to level the play-ing field for disadvantaged students. The bill’s author ought to reconsider the bill’s focus to center around a student’s economic background — not just their race, ethnicity or gender. 
▶ SENATE BILL, fromÊpageÊ4Dancing across family values and the impor-
tance of dreams, Matthew Lopez’s semi-autobiographical “Somewhere” follows the Candelarias, a showbiz-obsessed Puerto Rican-
American family living in 1960 New Y ork City. As the Candelarias grow restless with fantasies of stardom, the looming threat of eviction and their apartment’s demoli-tion hangs (literally) overhead.
At the helm of the quixotic chaos is headstrong matri-
arch Inez Candelaria (Tony Award-winner Priscilla Lopez) who, despite her insistence on tap lessons, her impromptu dining room dance numbers and a slew of creative Spanish obscenities, cannot seem to convert her stubbornly pragmatic, yet most artistically gifted, middle-son Alejandro (Jon Rua). But the family’s luck begins to turn as youngest Rebecca (Benita Robledo) lands a role in the film version of “West Side Story” (which, incidentally, is being filmed outside the Candelaria home) and Alejandro begins secretly writing a screen-play chronicling the outlandish stories of his mysteri-ous and absent father.
But the plot borders on the saccharine, combin-
ing family sentimentalism with Broadway dreams like a cross between “7th Heaven” and “Fame. ” When 
Alejandro inevitably learns to embrace his suppressed talents, it’s like a scene from a long-forgotten sitcom. 
Not that the emotion isn’t 
well executed.
Beautifully incorporating 
the arena-style architecture of the Old Globe’s Sheryl and Harvey White Theatre, designer Campbell Baird’s set, subtly accented with quaint, retro furniture, checkered linoleum floors and warm fill lights, places the audience directly in the cozy living room scene. It’s a near-perfect environment for the play’s naive and lovable characters, many of whom carry out con-versations on the stairwells, creating a uniquely intimate experience for the viewer. Around the stage, the iconic winding fire escapes from “West Side Story” tower over the daydreaming Candelarias, monumentalizing both the setting of the play and the thrilling climb to the top of Broadway fame. 
Hailing from a variety 
of theatrical backgrounds, each actor of the five-person cast makes evident his or her preferred style, sadly 
6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2011 | WWW.UC SDGUARDIAN .ORG
hiatusREN EBEL
hiatus @ucsdguardian.orgCONTACT THE EDITOR
arts&entertainment
It’s back. It’s finally back. The cast and producers of Arrested 
Development  are in talks with 
Showtime and Netflix about shooting and airing a short season of the cult-classic television show leading up to 
the release of a feature-length film. I 
very nearly blue myself in excitement. I’m sure somewhere out there, Tobias did too.
It’s widely agreed upon that FOX’s 
cancellation of the show was the big-gest little mistake the network has ever made (other notable victims include most things Joss Whedon-related.) After the show’s second season, grassroots campaigns — with one aptly titled SOB (Save Our Bluths) — sprung up in an attempt to save the show. Their success in getting a third season sadly ended there — the show was cancelled after a short season.
Since then, co-creator Mitchell 
Hurwitz dropped hints about a movie, and the show’s stars expressed interest from time to time. Showtime even had plans to save the show in 2006. But while this sent fans all atwitter, noth-ing ever happened — until now. 
From the outside, it may seem dif-
ficult to understand why fans adore a show about prickly, self-absorbed characters who end up doing incred-ibly stupid, self-possessed things. But part of the show’s charm is its sheer and utter absurdity. It’s like being the sole sober person in a room full of increasingly drunk crazies. It’s funny, it’s kind of weird and sometimes you don’t even catch the joke the first time around. 
And the inside jokes — those are 
references that only devout viewers can understand. By devout view-ers, I mean everybody from the man who dropped $350 on one of Buster’s prosthetic hands, to the less crazy but equally devoted fans who have seen every season on Netflix. Or the ones who attended the New Y orker Festival’s “Bluth Family Reunion” and watched as the cast did the infamous “chicken dance. ” 
Among the most notable quotes 
are “Who would want to R her?” , “Get rid of the Seaward” and “She was his cousin, Maeby. ” These recurring inside jokes and the consequential feeling of community amongst the show’s fans created a solid base that has car-ried on even today. After all, who else would be reposting the announce-ment on Tumblr or retweeting the Entertainment Weekly article that started it all.
As for the actual proposed eight- 
or nine-episode run, each episode is expected to serve as a catch-up for an individual character. Hurwitz appar-ently realized while writing the script that after he had adequately caught up with every single character, the movie was halfway over. This way, the televi-sion series would act as a backstory to the proposed movie sequel. It’s a solid plan — one that I hope will happen. The cast has even announced the fact that they are keeping their schedules free for production. Optimism acti-vated.  MARGARET YAU
m1yau@ucsd.eduJumping the           Shark
Color Me 
Blue: Arrested 
Development 
ReturnsPLAY REVIEW
“SOMEWHERE” /hyphen.case C+
When: Tuesdays & Wednesdays; 
7 p.m. Thursdays & Fridays; 8 p.m. Saturdays; 2 & 8 p.m. Sundays 2 & 7 p.m.
Where: Old Globe TheatreTickets: Start at $29Phone: (619) 234-5623Online: theoldglobe.orgSOMEWHEREÊOUTÊTHERE
DANCING,ÊDRAMAÊANDÊLOFTYÊDREAMSÊTAKEÊCENTERÊSTAGEÊ
ATÊTHEÊOLDÊGLOBE.ÊBYÊTANNERÊCOOK • STAFFÊWRITER
See SOMEWHERE page 8BLINK/hyphen.case182 & MY CHEMICAL ROMANCE
CRICKET W IRELESS AMPHITHEATRE / OCT. 6, 7 P.M. / FROM $27HIATUS PICKS THE WEEK’S BEST BETSEXIT STRATEGY
CHIPTUNE CO LLECTIVE 
LIVE AT THE FFOG FAIR
LIBRARY W ALK
OCT. 6, 12 P.M. 
FREE 
ROCK THE ST AGE, ROCK 
THE WO RLD
PORTER’S PUB
OCT. 6, 8 P.M. $10 FLEURS DU MAL 
/parenleft.caseFLOWERS O F EVIL/parenright.case
THE LOFT
OCT. 6, 8 P.M. $4  
THE J UMP O FF FEAT. DJ 
DAVIDJ
ROUND TABLE PIZZA
OCT. 7, 1 P.M. FREE MUIR UNPLUGGED FEAT. 
TURNING TRICKS
M.O. M.
OCT. 7, 6 P.M. FREE  
ABIGAIL W ASHBURN
THE LOFT
OCT.7, 8 P.M. $10  CHE CAFE BENEFIT 
CHE CAFE
OCT. 8, 8 P.M. $5  
ROMA NIGHTS FEAT. 
CUNNING STUNTS 
ESPRESSO ROMA
OCT. 10, 8 P.M. FREE  PUB AFTER DARK FEAT. 
THE STONE FOX ES 
PORTER’S PUB
OCT. 10, 8 P.M. FREE  
L.O.L. /parenleft.caseLOFT O UT LOUD/parenright.case 
WITH THE HINGES 
THE LOFT
OCT. 11, 8 P.M. $5 PAUL  BARIBEAU, 
SLEDDING W ITH TIGERS 
& KIDS 
CHE CAFE
OCT. 12, 7:30 P.M. 
$8
DRUTHERSTHIS WEEK ON CAMPUS
If you have any dad-hating, 
homework-skipping child-like wonder left in you, if the idea of dropping school to become a skateboard-ing troubadour still excites you, if you can remember a time when the words “Vans Warped Tour” sent pangs of 
sheer joy down your unac-companied spine, for the love of God, put down this paper and buy your ticket to this show. Pop-punk legends, emo-rock badasssery and plenty of sweaty teens. Wh at more could you possibly want? (RE)
LIAM FINN
THE LOFT / OCT. 8, 8:30 P.M. / $12
Opening for the likes of Wi lco, Eddie 
Vedder, Pearl Ja m and the Black Ke ys, 
New Ze aland’s Liam Finn has quietly 
garnered critical attention over the course of several world tours. Now, with the release of his sophomore studio LP FOMO,  Finn makes his triumphant step 
into the indie/folk limelight with gentle songs about homesickness, friendship and love. Finn will be joined by opener Marques Toliver. (RE)THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MON DAY , OCTOBER 03, 2011 | WWW.UC SDGUARDIAN .ORG 7
 A Major League Career
 A Sport Management representative will be in attendance at the
University of California, San Diego Graduate School Fair
Wednesday, Oct. 12, 10:30am–2:30pm
Library Walk
For more information:
Southern California Program 714.633.5626
San Francisco Program 415.422.2678
Visit our website at: www.usfca.edu/sm   
For a complete listing of graduate programs, visit: www.usfca.edu/graduate
Change the World from Here M.A. in Sport Management
An evening Master’s program to build managerial, marketing, 
and strategic skills in the sport marketplace. Now accepting applications for classes starting in July 2012.
University of San Francisco Sport Management alumni:  
Top: Doug Carnahan, San Diego Chargers, Corporate Sales 
Manager;  Above: Jason Green, San Diego Padres, Senior 
Account Executive, Season Ticket Sales
ENCHANTMENT PARTY
ON BROADWAY / OCT. 6, 9 P.M. / $15 PRE/hyphen.caseSALES, $20 AT DOOR
Ever had the urge to get crunk, get down and get covered in foam? Live 
out the little town in Footloose’s nightmare and grind to fat beatz this Thursday night at Enchantment, a four ﬂoor clubbing extravaganza at On Broadway. You might be trampled and groped in all the wrong places, 
but at least it will make for a great hungover story the next day. Well, if 
you can remember. (MY)
8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY, O CTOBER 06, 2011 | WWW.UC SDGUARDIAN .ORG
60,000 eyes & other good reasons.
Call 858-534-3467 to reserve your spot!
ucsdguardian.org
Why Advertise in
the Guardian?
Reserve
for next
quarter!Science-themed Biophilia 
is being marketed as the 
“future of music. ” Recorded 
on an iPad, the album uses invent-ed instruments and comes with interactive apps for every song. But the techno-gimmicks ultimately distract from the music itself — tracks which have Björk going back to basics and crafting sound-scapes that, while gorgeous, aren’t anything we haven’t heard from the Icelandic singer before.
Each song on the album is 
related to a scientific concept (tectonic plates, viruses, moon phases), and they fit seamlessly, blending together in a parade of tinny electronics and flute sounds strongly reminiscent of 2001’s Vespertine . 
Opener “Moon” sets the 
scene with harp-like strings (à 
la Joanna Newsom) and breathy 
vocals that repeat throughout the 10 tracks. These IDM influences continue on tracks like “Solstice” and “Cosmogony, ” the latter of which comes off as a love ballad, with straightforward vocals that are a far cry from the shrieks and vocal acrobatics Björk is known for. Instead, we have quiet, layered voices combining over the eternal plinking. 
“Sacrifice”’s dark, discordant 
synth makes it a highlight, but only “Crystalline” and “Mutual Core” evolve into a hard-edged electronic racket. These songs stand out from the mellow beauty of an album that is, despite its sci-fi theme, full of the tiny rhythms and minimal-ism we already know instead of the clanging invitations to a mysteri-ous future we’ d hoped for.
 
— Angela Chen
SENIOR  STAFF  WRITERAvant-pop goddess updates your iPad.ALBUM REVIEWS
Science and Techno 
Björk
Biophilia
ONE LITTLE INDIAN
6
10
Most of Cymbals Eat Guitars were in their late teens when their debut Why 
There Are Mountains dropped in 2009. A few new band members, opening dates and album-of-the-year nods later, the scrappy ’90s-indie revivalists now face their greatest challenge yet: staying relevant in a formidable sea of scrappy ’90s-indie revivalists.
Thankfully, on sophomore album 
Lenses Alien, Cymbals Eat Guitars take new stylistic risks while paying tribute to their indie-rock forefathers. /uni00A0
Aside from the album’s eight-
and-a-half minute roller coaster opener “Rifle Eyesight (Proper Name), ” Lenses Alien contains some of Cymbals’ most concise and straightforward rock songs to date, with most clocking in at under three minutes. The result is a sampler platter of musical influences. Songs like piano-driven “Shore Points” and riff-heavy “Keep Me Waiting” exhibit the quaint, lo-fi bedroom rock of Built to Spill and the Shins, while “Wavelengths” successfully dons a pleasant, alt-country twang.
Singer Joseph D’ Agostino also 
sounds more focused, effectively flip-ping through his scrapbook of indie legends — Stephen Malkmus’ eccen-tric drawl on “Definite Darkness, ” Conor Oberst’s mournful croon on “ Another Tunguska, ” Isaac Brock’s primal yelp on “Secret Family” — all while retaining his own nasally, teen-age inflection. 
While admittedly not as inventive 
as the band’s thrilling debut, Lenses 
Alien  serves as an interesting and 
successful experiment — the sound of a promising new band challenging itself to grow.
 
— Taylor Hogshead
STAFF  WRITERNew Yorkers sample indie rock legends.Taking Notes
Cymbals Eat Guitars
Lenses Alien
BARSUK RECORDS
7
10
highlighting “Somewhere”’s incon-
sistency more than its diversity. Seasoned Broadway vet Priscilla Lopez (“In the Heights, ” “ A Day in Hollywood/A Night in Ukraine”) too often seems claustrophobic — her excessive gesturing and Vaudevillian over-acting proving awkwardly distracting in such close quarters. Lopez’s cartoonishness is further amplified when paired with Rua’s downplayed realism — the duo’s conversations consequently exude unintended surrealism in nearly every scene.
But Matthew Lopez’s breezy 
script and likable, uncomplicated characters make these snags easy to overlook. Juan Javier Cardenas’ Brando-loving Francisco Candelaria is consistently hilarious, from his straight-faced delivery during the opening scene’s mock gun battle to his extended slapstick routine while miming Alejandro’s freshly-penned script. Leo Ash Evens’ confusing but nevertheless entertaining role as fam-ily friend Jamie MacRae (the only non-Candelaria in the play) provides the apparently necessary token white guy/tap dancing, as well as some of the production’s more impressive choreography.  In fact, the dancing almost always overshadows the plot. Choreographer Greg Graham’s intricate numbers interrupt “Somewhere”’s soap opera sentimentalism, transporting us to an impressionistic dream wherein char-acters reveal their emotions through raw movement. 
Though the gorgeous production 
and memorable characters point to an undeniable heart at its core, “Somewhere”’s harmless, generic sto-rytelling prevents the play from ever transcending a pleasant two-step down memory lane.
/uni25B6 SOMEWHERE fromÊpageÊ6DanceÊShinesÊinÊÒSomewhereÓ
THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2011 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 9
Guardian Classifieds are placed online and are FREE for UCSD. Low cost classified placements for our print 
edition are also available to the UCSD campus and the public at   ucsdguardian.campusave.com
Guardian Classifieds are placed online and are FREE for UCSD. Low cost classified placements for our print 
edition are also available to the UCSD campus and the public at   ucsdguardian.campusave.com
HOUSING
Need a person to replace me at the end of 
december or January on a lease that starts in oct 1. It is right across from Victoria secret at Utc. Takes a minute to get to Utc bus stop. U will always have a seat on the bus, takes 10min to get to school. available for visit anytime! Just reply and I’ll give u a call.rent is cheap, 375 sharing a big room, utilities 25. Spacious living room, nice roommates- clean, neat, friendly! It’s always cozy never too hot or too cold here. Apply online at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds to Listing ID: 13213001
$500 Condo room for share. Great views! 
Close to La Jolla. Looking for someone to move in starting end of December or beginning of January (starting win-ter quarter). Will be sharing with a male 
UCSD students. Includes: Huge TV, Surround sound speaker system. Large patio, Microwave, oven, toaster. Washer  
and dryer. Dinner table and chairs, comfy couches. Bathroom, closet, bed, desk, chair. Utilities + Payments. Electricity. Arrowhead drinking water. Time Warner Internet (15 
Mbps). Apply online at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds to Listing ID: 13212928
Master Bedroom (Double) - Need a 
Roomie! $423.75 Hey there! We’re in need 
of someone to double up with in the mas-ter of our apt. You get your own private bathroom and the master comes with a walk-in closet. You will be sharing your room with a fourth year female UCSD student for the month of October. In the other room are two fourth years, one male and one female. All of us are really friendly and we would love anyone friendly to join us too. After that you can choose to renew the lease starting Nov. 1st. Female room mate preferred! Utilities: time warner internet, water, SDGE = usually adds up to around $40. Apply online at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds to Listing ID: 13212805
Cheap & Clean Living Room for Female - 
ASAP . Looking for one GIRL to move in the living room of Costa Verde ASAP (No later than Oct 1). You will be taking up a gener -
ous amount of the living room space. No dividers provided. All of us are usually out during the day either for school or work, so it is usually nice and quiet. We are all very 
easy going and friendly to each other, so we hope to make good friends with you as well. Also, all of us have boyfriends, so you have to feel comfortable with them coming over often - cooking, chatting and such. W e sometimes watch movies, have 
dinner or do nails together. It’s fun!!!  Apply online at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds to  Listing ID: 13042562
FOR SALE
SHETLAND SHEEPDOG-puppy - $950. Beautiful, intelligent, friendly Sheltie Fe puppy. AKC registerable. 8 weeks old. shots given. Apply online at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds to  Listing ID: 12531245
Beagle puppies - $450. The real snoopy 
puppy is back. 8 weeks old male and female available. Traditional tri-color and lemon color. Both parents are purebred, mom was Akc reg. Parents weigh about 25lbs each. Puppies are vaccinated and dewormed. Blocky head and a nice white flag tail. Beagle have no known health issue and they come with a free vet visit and and a one year health guarantee. Nice with kids and other pets. Discount for active law enforcement and military. Apply online at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds to  Listing ID: 12531239   
Very Cute Labrador Retriever Pups - $350. 
Very cute labrador retriever puppies are ready for their new home, they are reach-ing their 8 weeks, have the first set of shots.. both males and females in choco -
late brown and black... No AKC registra-tion, however both parents are purebred.. Call or email for aditional info at or (email removed). Apply online at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds to Listing ID: 12521977
Tickets for Blink 182My Chemical Romance 
at Cricket Wireless Amphitheatre - $111. 
Buy Blink 182My Chemical Romance Tickets for Thursday, October 06, 2011 7:00 PM at Cricket Wireless Amphitheatre (for -
merly Coors Amphitheatre) in Chula Vista, California. Apply online at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds to Listing ID: 13192092
1995 Johnson 88 HP SPL Excellent 
Condition Trim/Tilt & Controls. I have a exceptional condition Johnson 88 HORSEPOWER SPL. I am going to take it in Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies 
on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.uk
for a tune up tomorrow and ask how much it is worth. If you could use it please let me know and make an offer. I have the controls and it has trim / tilt. Everything included. Nice motor. Thanks! Rob or email. Apply online at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds to Listing ID: 12401207
Viscount Racing Bike (Oceanside, 
CA) - $120. Shimano Parts. New tape. New cables. (All tuned up) 62 cm. Apply online at ucs-dguardian.org/classifieds to Listing ID: 3568477
Antique Oak Captains Chair - $350 
Rare Oak Captains Chair made by “Kenric & Efferson” probably around 1880. Original Label still on the back. Seat re-upholstered with Kid Glove Leather and ham-mer head tacks. Excellent condi-tion, sturdy. $350.00 obo. Apply online at ucsdguardian.org/clas-sifieds to Listing ID: 358677
Level: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 123 4
Level: 123 4Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
Complete the grid so
each row, column and3-by-3 box (in boldborders) containsevery digit, 1 to 9. Forstrategies on how tosolve Sudoku, visitwww.sudoku.org.uk
SOLUTION TO
SATURDAY’S PUZZLELevel:
1 2
34
© 2009 The Mepham Group. Distributed by
Tribune Media Services. All rights reserved.9/14/09
 surf.t
COMING SOON TO LIBRARY WALK...
to.ucsd.edu
10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY, OC TOBER 06, 2011 | WWW.UC SDGUARDIAN .ORG
MONDAY , MARCH 29, 2010WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
VOLUME XLII, ISSUE XXXXI
:762,5 :762,5:<9-9,769;05:0+,
50./;>(;*/MONDAY
Height:  3-4 ft.
Wind: 8-10 mph
Water Temp: 62 FTUESDAY
Height:  4-7 ft.
Wind: 6-11 mph
Water Temp: 62 F
WEDNESDAY
Height:  6-8 ft.
Wind: 9-13 mph 
Water Temp: 62 FTHURSDAY
Height:  6-11 ft.
Wind: 1-14 mph 
Water Temp: 62 FLOW
$2.89
Quick Trip, El Cajon
596 N Mollison Ave. & I-8
HIGH
$3.89
Chevron, Point Loma
1704 Rosecrans St. & Nimitz Blvd.THURSDAY FRIDAY
MONDAY
H 73 L 64TUESDAY
H 63 L 54MONDAY TUESDAY.(:7,9.(3365
:<9-9,769;
50./;>(;*/
-69,*(:;
>,)7633
SHOULD THE UNIVERSITY 
PROVIDE HEALTH CARE FOR PRISONERS?
√  Yes
√  No
√  I don’t know:<590:,
:<5:,;6:39 A.M.
7:07 P.M.
WEDNESDAY
H 54 L 47THURSDAY
H 52 L 45
THURSDAYWEDNESDAY
WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG*VTPJZ
3PNO[Z:PYLUZ
([>P[»Z,UK
3L[[LYZ[V[OL,KP[VY
:P[L:LLU 
*SHZZPÄLKZ
:\KVR\BECOMING DR. BOSS-MAN
UNPAID LABOR IS THE HOTTEST NEW BULLET POINT
ON YOUR RESUME. PAGE 8
VOLUME XLIIISSUE XXXXI
ON YOUUR RE
S
UME.
PPPPPPPAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE  8888888888888888888888
campus climate. 
Sanchez said the leg-
islation would target not 
only hate speech — which includes racial slurs — but 
also “acts with intent to 
terrorize, ” the legal word-ing used by the university to describe a Feb. 25 inci-dent in which a noose was found hanging in Geisel 
Library.
“The legislation would Obama Cuts 
Banks from Loan Game/ZIL[;]M
=VQ^MZ[Q\aNWZ 5QTTQWV
By Hayley Bisceglia-Martin
News Editor
A rider bill attached to — and somewhat 
overshadowed by — President Barack Obama’s 
landmark health-care reform will remodel the 
student loan system by cutting out private lend-ers and setting aside billions more in federal dollars for financial aid.
Currently, the U.S. government provides 
money to banks or corporations which arrange loans for students, then collect interest at a profit. According to the 
Congressional Budget 
Office, bypassing private 
lenders and giving loan funds directly to students 
will save the federal gov-ernment $1 billion over the next year alone, and $62 bil-lion over the next 10 years.
The vast majority of 
that $62 billion will be reinvested in Pell Grants, $13 billion of which will be devoted to increasing stu-dent eligibility and avoiding a cap on the money students can receive. 
The additional funds 
will push the maximum 
award for the 2010-11 academic year from $5,350 to $5,500. The federal government is covering this increase and allowing for more like it by 2010 with $36 billion in additional aid.
Of the remaining $13 billion in government 
savings, $10 billion will go toward reducing the federal deficit and about $2.55 billion will go to 
institutions that serve minorities.
The larger health-care bill also affects stu-
dents with a provision that allows all Americans to stay on their parents’ health-care policy until age 26, instead of the more typical 19.
Readers can contact Hayley Bisceglia-Martin at 
hbiscegl@ucsd.edu.By Ayelet Bitton
Associate News Editor
The University of California 
will pay back $38 million in fees to 
students in professional programs, after a San Francisco Superior Court judge ruled on March 10 that the university had raised fees illegally from 2003 to 2007.
According to evidence present-
ed throughout the case, — Andrea 
Luquetta et. al v. Regents of the University of California — official 
university documents, including an 
online fee guide, stated that fees 
would not be increased for continu-ing students at any point throughout 
their period of enrollment. 
The court ruled that these mate-
rials constituted a contract, which the university then violated.
“The contract between the plain-
tiff students and the university included a binding commitment not to raise the professional degree fees for continuing students, ” Superior Court Judge John Munter said in a statement.
The ruling applies to nearly 
3,000 students who enrolled in UC professional schools — including law, business and medicine — before August 25, 2003.
Four students from schools such 
as the UCLA School of Law and UCSF School of Medicine contacted law firm Altshuler Berzon LLP in 2007 to take up their case against the university.
Danielle Leonard, who works 
for the firm, said that while fee increases may be necessary, students must be informed of the possibility of such increases before they go into effect. In this case, students were not notified
“The court concluded that the 
university had breached its contracts with the students for the price of their education, because the university had promised to keep the amount of the professional degree fee constant for the period of their enrollment, and then violated that promise, ” Leonard said.
Over the last several years, 
the university has raised fees for both undergraduate and graduate students systemwide to account for state budget cuts. 
Those affected by the case will 
receive up to $8,000, an amount that has sharply increased during <PM*QTT
\W*IV0I\M
Students move to outlaw hate speech on campus.
After repeated acts of 
racism rocked the UC campuses dur-
ing Winter Quarter, the UC Student Association 
— a group that aims to represent the the 10-cam-
pus university — is work-
ing with the UCSD Black Student Union to pass By Angela Chen s News Editor
See LAWSUITpage 7$49 BILLION
Amount added 
to Pell Grants
26
New age limit for children on parent’s health insurance$5,500
New maximum Pell Grant award
=+;,8ZWN
-`IUQVM[-IZ\PY]ISMQV+PQTM
By Kashi Khorasani
Staff Writer
Six months back, UCSD structural 
engineering professor Jose Restrepo 
was in Chile, ironically working on preventive earthquake measures. 
Cue the 8.8-magnitude earthquake 
See CHILEpage 2
ANYTHING
BUT CLOTHES
Students took a break from ﬁnals to participate in the quarterly undie run, which took place at midnight on March 18. Hundreds of scantily clad stressballs ran past CLICS Library, where a few overexcited participants smashed a window on the second ﬂoor.Defense attorney says university will contest ‘guilty’ ruling two years after losing similar case.
SeeBILLpage 7*(70;63/033
TIM WONG /GUARDIANlegislation banning hate 
speech on public college campuses in California. 
First proposed by 
UCSA President Victor Sanchez early this month, the legislation is a col-
laborative effort between 
the two groups. Sanchez brought the idea before UC officials during a series of meetings between UCSA 
and the UC Office of the President to discuss poten-tial ways of improving the 
PHILIP  RHIE//GUARDIANDisputes over how to use the SRC keeps both students and staff in limbo.
69+,9:-69>(2,505.
+VJ[VY»Z6YKLYZ!
THEY’RE WORTH GETTING USED TO. PAGE 6
THURSDAY , JANUARY 21, 2010WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
VOLUME XLII, ISSUE XXVI
By Hayley Bisceglia-Martin 
News Editor
The earthquake that hit the 
Haitian capital of Port-au-Prince 
on Jan. 12 — claiming an estimated 200,000 lives, according to the Pan American Health Organization — also took the life of 24-year-old UCSD gradu-ate and Arizona native Daniel Ryan Kloos.
Ryan, who 
went by his mid-dle name, was in Haiti visiting his 
sister Erin Kloos, age 27. She was one of four Americans volunteering at Friends of the Orphans, a subset of the children’s charity Nuestros Pequeños Hermanos.
At the time of his death, Ryan was 
at the Father W asson Center, a chil-dren’s hospital where his sister worked. When the 7.0 magnitude earthquake hit, five of the hospital’s seven sto-ries collapsed, killing both Ryan and another volunteer, Molly Hightower, age 22.  
Ryan graduated from Muir 
College in 2008 with a double major in Sociology and Biochemistry/ General Biology, and had just been accepted to two schools of osteopath-ic medicine, according to close friend and classmate Liz Costa.
“Once he had been accepted to 
one of the programs, he quit his job By Kashi Khorasani
Staff Writer
On Jan. 11, the California State 
Assembly Committee passed a bill aimed at allocating more funds to higher education with five affirma-tive votes and two negative votes. Bill AB 656, authored by Assemblyman Alberto Torrico (D–Fremont), will impose an excise tax on oil com-panies that extract oil and natural gas from the state’s land and water sources.
If passed by the California State 
Legislature, the bill would create the California Higher Education Endowment Corporation. The cor-poration would be run by represen- tatives from the California State University system, the University of California and community col-leges and would be responsible for allocating the money each year.
Earlier this 
month, the bill was amended to incur a 12.5-per-cent severance tax, as opposed to 
the previously proposed 9.9-percent tax. According to an analysis by the Assembly Committee on Revenue and Taxation, the tax will now be expected to raise $1.8 billion in 2010 and $2 billion in 2011. 
Prior to recent amendments, 
the bill would have sent 60 per-cent of revenue to the CSU sys-tem, 30 percent to the UC system and just 10 percent to community colleges. After the urging of the 
Faculty Association of California Community Colleges, however, the bill was rewritten and now directs 50 percent of its revenue to the CSU 
system, 25 percent to the UC sys-tem and 25 percent to community colleges.
“We have allowed oil companies 
in California to extract oil from our ground and we have failed to charge 
Daniel Ryan Kloos
UCSD Alumnus
After the grand opening of the 
Sustainability Resource Center last November, members of the Student Sustainability Collective and Campus 
Sustainability administrators have not yet come to an agreement over how to share the space.
According to SSC student director Rishi 
Ghosh, the center was conceived two years ago when students approached university adminis-trators with hopes to begin the project. When student activity fees were raised last Spring Quarter — providing the SSC with an addi-tional $2.34 per-student per-quarter for proj-ects and staff — SSC members were under the impression their new efforts would be housed by the collaborative space.
Since then, however, university staff and 
student leaders have disagreed on the role of students in the center — leaving the SSC with-out the opportunity to utilize the SRC on a 
consistent basis.“The spirit of the referendum, the way we 
advertised it, was that the funding was for students working right in the new SRC, ” A.S. President Utsav Gupta said. “That was the con-text in which we had all these discussions with the administration — until it totally flipped. It was a bait-and-switch. ”
According to the SRC’s Web 
site, its original intention was 
to “house UCSD’s sustainability staff and the student-funded and -run SSC. ”
As no form has yet been signed indicating 
an understanding of the two groups’ control of 
the center, however, only the CSS currently has full access the space.
In the months following the student-fee 
referendum, plans for the center were arranged verbally between students and staff. University 
UCSD graduate Daniel 
Ryan Kloos was killed while volunteering for a children’s hospital.)4=56=;
,1-;16
9=)3-:<:;(05()030;@9,:6<9*,*,5;,9
);+W]VKQT8TIKM[4WN\WV;XZQVO9]IZ\MZ.MM*ITTW\
By Angela Chen
News Editor
After more than six hours of debate, the A.S. 
Council voted 20-7-1 late Wednesday night to 
place the Loft referendum on the Spring Quarter election ballot. If approved by the student body, the proposal would raise student fees by $3.82 per 
student per quarter. The money would go toward art and music programming at the Loft.
The referendum requires that at least 29 per-
cent of the fees go to financial aid, that at least 80 percent of all events at the Loft be “pay as you can” for UCSD students and that undergraduates rep-resent at least 60 percent of the venue’s hiring staff. During yesterday’s meeting, the council dis-
cussed two models of the referendum — one sponsored by A.S. Associate Vice President of Academic Affairs and chair of the University Centers Advisory Board Jordan Taylor, and one sponsored by A.S. President Utsav Gupta. 
The primary difference between the two 
proposals was the intensity of A.S. Council oversight. 
Under Gupta’s proposal, the A.S. Council 
would create a student-majority Loft Governance B o a r d  t o  r e g u l a t e  t h e  v e n u e ’ s  b u d g e t  a l l o c a t i o n .   This board would include various members of Oil Tax 
May Fund 
Higher Education*()<+.,;*90:0:
The UC, CSU and community-collegesystems stand to split $1.8 billion in revenue.
:762,5
We just do it. We’ve really conditioned ourselves from years 
of playing; we can do it anywhere." 
                                                   JOHN FAMIGLIETTIHEALTH
PAGE 6 “:<9-9,769;
-69,*(:;
THURSDAY
H 59 L 49FRIDAY
H 55 L 45
SATURDAY
H 58 L 42SUNDAY
H 63 L 4205:0+,
*VTPJZ
5L^)\ZPULZZ
:\YM9LWVY[
3L[[LY[V[OL,KP[VY
*VUJLY[7YL]PL^
*SHZZPMPLKZ
:\KVR\50./;>(;*/.(:7,9.(3365
THURSDAY
Height:  2-5 ft.
Wind: 8-19 mph
Water Temp: 59 FFRIDAY
Height:  2-5 ft.
Wind: 9-13 mph
Water Temp: 59 F
SATURDAY
Height:  2-5 ft.
Wind: 8-12 mph 
Water Temp: 59 FSUNDAY
Height:  3-6 ft.
Wind: 1-5 mph 
Water Temp: 59 FLOW
$2.75
Qwik Korner, National City
3009 Highland Ave 91950
HIGH
$3.49
Kwik Stop, El Cajon
2410 Fletcher Pkwy & Garﬁeld Ave
12.5%
$3.8  BILL.
$950  MILL.PROPOSED 
SEVERANCE TAXTAX TALK
TOTAL RAISED 
BY 2011
TO UC SYSTEM
See LOFTpage 3See SRCpage 3
See OILpage 3SeeKLOOSpage 9OPINION
Next time, get 
their word in writing.AND WHITE RUSSIANS 
WITH THE DUDE. PAGE 6
LOCKED OUT
By Ayelet Bitton t Associate News EditorThough they were promised space, students lack access to the SRC.
KEVIN WU/GUARDIAN
If passed by the student body, the Loft referendum guarantees that at least 
80 percent of Loft events will be “pay as you can” for UCSD students. PHOTO ILLUSTRATION BY PHILIP RHIE & EMILY KU/GUARDIAN
THURSDAY
SATURDAYFRIDAY
SUNDAYTHURSDAY , JUNE 3, 2010WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
VOLUME XLII, ISSUE LX
:762,5 :762,5:<9-9,769;
50./;>(;*/
THURSDAY
Height:  5-6 feet
Wind: 2-6 mph
Water Temp: 66 FFRIDAY
Height:  5-6 feet
Wind: 1-8 mph
Water Temp: 66 F
SATURDAY
Height:  6-7 feet
Wind: 2-9 mph 
Water Temp: 66 FSUNDAY
Height:  6-7 feet
Wind: 2-7 mph 
Water Temp: 66 FLOW
$2.79
ARCO, Poway
12805 Poway Rd & Carriage Rd
HIGH
$3.86
76, Point Loma
1704 Rosecrans St. & Nimitz Blvd.THURSDAY FRIDAY
THURSDAY
H 70 L 60FRIDAY
H 72 L 62THURSDAY FRIDAY.(:7,9.(3365
50./;>(;*/
-69,*(:;
>,)7633:<590:,
:<5:,;5:41 A.M.
7:53 P.M.
SATURDAY
H 74 L 63SUNDAY
H 73 L 62SUNDAYSATURDAY
WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
THIS WAY OUT 
SENIOR SENDOFFSPAGE 10
05:0+,
:<9-9,769;*VTPJZ
5L^)\ZPULZZ;OL@LHYPU8\V[LZ:\TTLY4V]PL7YL]PL^:LUPVY:LUKVMMZ*SHZZPÄLKZ:\KVR\
√  Yes
√  No
√  I don’t knowSHOULD THE A.S. 
COUNCIL HAVE CLOSED THE GROVE CAFE?THE END
By Regina Ip
Associate News Editor
A week after A.S. Council first 
met to appoint the 2010-11 associ-
ate vice presidents, one of the three remaining positions is still unfilled — leaving the council to enter next year without a full cabinet of 10 AVPs in 
charge of managing various aspects of student life. 
On May 26, the council voted 
against appointing A.S. President W afa Ben Hassine’ s nominations for three A VP positions. The nominations of former Campuswide Senator Desiree Prevo for the A VP of Academic Affairs position, and former A VP of Local Affairs Aries Y umul for the A VP of College Affairs position were voted down, while the nomination of Eleanor Roosevelt College sophomore Arohi Sharma for the A VP of Student 
Advocacy position was tabled. 
On June 3, the council approved 
Prevo and Sharma to temporarily fill the Academic Affairs and Student Advocacy positions, respectively. They will carry out the AVP posi-tions until Week Four of Fall Quarter at which point applications for the position will reopen. 
The position of AVP of College 
Affairs was not discussed and will not be filled until Fall Quarter. 
According to Ben Hassine, all 
three positions were tabled at the Campus Affairs committee meeting, which is held prior to the council meeting. From that, the Academic Affairs and Student Advocacy posi-tions were pulled out of committee to be discussed at the meeting. 
Ben Hassine said the positions 
were tabled — and then voted down —  because councilmembers dis-agreed with the process of choosing members for the selection commit-tee. The selection committee consists of the president, the outgoing AVP and three to four council senators.
See AVP,page 7In less than two hours last night, the A.S. Council voted 17-2 to shut down the Grove Cafe, effectively ending a 24-year saga that 
included numerous attempts to revitalize the struggling eatery. 
The decision comes a year after the previous council voted last June 
to continue operating the coffee shop, which was $140,000 in debt at 
the time. However, despite ongoing renovations and a much-hyped reopening this Winter Quarter, the business has increased its debt over $35,000, to a total of nearly $180,000. 
According to both Vice President of Finance and Resources 
Andrew Ang and Associate Vice President of Enterprise Operations Brian McEuen, the Grove would need to make a daily profit of $925 to cover its operating costs alone. However, since reopening in January, By Connie Qian
Senior Staff Writer
Over 11,000 nurses from five 
UC medical centers — including the UCSD medical centers — will strike on June 10 to protest unsafe nurse-to-patient ratios, the National Nurses United announced last Friday.
“One of the things we’ve been ask-
ing is that the [nurse-to-patient] ratio should be maintained at all times, ” UCSD Medical Center - Hillcrest reg-istered nurse Janice Webb said. “We’re asking for break-relief nurses. That’s a nurse that comes in and watches your patient while you’re on break. ”
The protest, slated to be the largest 
nurse strike in U.S. history, will also include an additional 14,000 nurs-es from California and Minnesota, totaling 25,000 participants.
California law requires hospitals 
to maintain at least one nurse for every three to five patients, depend-ing on the care the patients receive. The union said it wants to mandate stronger enforcement of these laws 
and establish safe ratios at all times. 
According to Webb, the medical 
centers do not have enough nurses to attend the patients.
 “We’ve been having meetings 
with hospitals that say they already have charge nurses, but realistical-ly they can’t maintain the ratio on breaks, ” she said. “ A lot of times when the charge nurses [or nurses who supervise] watch, there are still more nurses needed — just someone to help out. ”
However, in an online statement, 
the UC Office of the President con-tended that such a strike is without legitimate cause.
“The university considers this 
action unlawful, a violation of good-faith bargaining requirements and a clear violation of the parties’ con-tract, ” UCOP said in their statement.
The strike will also attempt to 
secure the nurses’ retirement benefits to make sure neither politicians nor the health industry can easily rescind them.
“The other thing we’re concerned 
about is the pension and our health benefits, ” Webb said. “Things are get-ting expensive now, and they’re trying to look at ways to cut costs. That’s going to affect people, and we want After 24 years on campus, the ailing Grove Cafe 
will close its doors for good. By Ayelet Bitton
See GROVE,page 7Nurses 
Plan to  Strike
See NURSES, page 3After medical 
administrators reject proposed staff increases, union prepares to react with protest.
JOHN  HANACEK/GUARDIAN
:(=05.;/,.96=,:;<+,5;*6<5*03*<;:36::,::/<;:+6>5,(;,9@
FROM FML
TO FLOWERS
A crowd of students gave  ﬂowers to Mary,  an employee at the Burger King in  Price Center East, yesterday. The event beganbecause of a post on UCSDFML.com  that broughtattention to Mary’s work.);+W]VKQT0QZM[<MUX-UXTWaMM[
GROVE CAFE’S TOTAL DEBT 
DAILY PROFIT GROVE NEEDS TO BREAK EVEN
NUMBER OF DAYS, SINCE REOPENING, GROVE EARNED $925
AVERAGE PROFIT GROVE MAKES DAILY$177,920.78
$925
2
$525BY THE NUMBERS
PHOTOS BY ANDREW OH/GUARDIANTHURSDAY , APRIL 4, 2011 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG VOLUME XLIII, ISSUE XLIII
SPOKEN SPOKEN SURF REPORT NIGHT WATCH
MONDAY
Height:  4 ft.
Wind: 3-7 mph
Water Temp: 64 FTUESDAY
Height:  4 ft.
Wind: 5-7 mph
Water Temp: 64 F
WEDNESDAY
Height:  4 ft.
Wind: 2-7 mph 
Water Temp: 64 FTHURSDAY
Height:  4-7 ft.
Wind: 3-6 mph 
Water Temp: 64 FLOW
$3.89
Costco, Chula Vista
895 East H S.t near Tierra Del Rey
HIGH
$4.69
76, Point Loma
1704 Rosecrans St. & Nimitz Blvd.THURSDAY FRIDAYMONDAY
H 72 L 56TUESDAY
H 68 L 56 MONDAY TUESDAYGAS PER GALLON SURF REPORT NIGHT WATCH FORECAST WEB POLL
ARE YOU PLEASED WITH THE SUN GOD LINEUP?
√  Yes
√  No
√  I don’t knowSUNRISE
SUNSET6:33  A.M.
7:11  P .M.WEDNESDAY
H 64 L 54THURSDAY
H 61 L 51 THURSDAY WEDNESDAY WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGComics ..................................2
Lights and Sirens ...................3
Endorsement Issue ................4
Candidate Profiles .................8
Classifieds ...........................12
Sudoku ................................12
Sports ..................................16By Jonathan Kaslow
S/t.sc/a.sc/f.sc/f.sc W/r.sc/i.sc/t.sc/e.sc/r.sc 
Students from 50 states and 90 countries congregated on 
campus for the Clinton Global Initiative University this week-
end, held April 1 to 3. /T_he conference is devoted to developing and implementing projects (called “commitments”) to global issues, such as poverty, pollution, LGBT rights and college af-fordability.  
About 1,200 students entered the conference with individ-
ual commitments, 200 of which were from UCSD.  Students were required to apply to be participate.
/T_he Clinton Global Initiative is part of the Clinton Foun-
dation, founded by former U.S. president Bill Clinton in 2005.  Now hosting its fourth conference, the CGIU has been to uni-versities in New Orleans, Texas and Miami.  
Clinton was on hand for the weekend’s event, and other 
guests included Qualcomm CEO Paul Jacobs, actor Sean Penn and singer Mandy Moore.  Jacobs participated in the opening session, while Moore spoke at the /f_irst workshop on global health and Penn appeared at the closing session. Students were also able to attend a variety of panels and workshops to prepare them to ful/f_ill their commitment to face issues such as popula-tion growth, the environment and global health.
“Y ou believe you can make a diﬀerence, and we’re going 
to help you, ” Clinton said at the April 1 opening session. “/T_he most important question is ‘how do you propose to do it [com-mitment]’ and college students are more prone for that ques-tion. ”
CGI U Campus Representative Melissa Etehad, who at-
tended CGI U in Miami last year, expressed her excitement over the event’s international scope.
“It’s an international event for UCSD, and imagine 200 stu-
dents changing the world, ” Etehad said. “I am so excited for the 3,700 ATTEND CLINTON OPENING SESSION
See CLINTON, page 7By Regina Ip
N/e.sc/w.sc/s.sc E/d.sc/i.sc/t.sc/o.sc/r.sc
Carlsbad resident Julio Angel Garcia-Puente, 50, 
will go to trial for murder and arson charges following a hearing held March 30. He is suspected of killing his estranged wife — 38-year-old Lorena Gonzalez, whose body was found in a burning vehicle in the P701 parking lot next to the UCSD baseball field.
At the preliminary hearing to determine if probable 
cause exists to indict Garcia-Puente, San Diego 
Superior Court Judge Jeffrey Fraser concluded that the prosecutors provided sufficient evidence for the case to stand trial, the San Diego 
Union-Tribun e reported on March 
30.
San Diego firefighters testified 
that they arrived in the parking lot 
at approximately 8:30 p.m., when they 
found the vehicle in flames. According to the Union-
Tribune , firefighter Justin Price said that when he 
opened one of the car doors, he saw a head and an arm. Investigators determined that the vehicle was intentionally set on fire.
According to the Union-Tribune , deputy district 
attorney Nicole Rooney testified that Gonzalez died of strangulation, as three bones in her neck were Murder Suspect in 
Burning Vehicle Case Will Face Trial
PHOTO  BY ANDREW  OH/GUARDIANAfter five months of planning, A.S. Concerts and Events 
Media Liaison Oliver Zhang sat down with the Guardian Sunday afternoon to leak the lineup for the annual Sun 
God Festival.
“For me, it’s the best lineup we’ve ever had, ” Zhang said of the 
May 13 festival. 
Rapper Wiz Khalifa will be headlining the main stage, while 
Jesse F. Keeler (JFK) of electronic music duo MSTRKRFT will be the main act at the dance tent. 
Best Coast, Mike Posner, Jimmy Eat World and Crystal Castles 
will also play the main stage. The support for the dance tent — as well as one more act for the main stage — will be revealed once the artist contracts are completed.
“Not all contracts are fully executed, ” Zhang said. “When we 
release something we want to make sure that the contracts are fully valid, just in case they back out at the last minute. ”
Associate Vice President of Concerts and Events Brian Wong 
said he is proud of the lineup.
“We knew coming into this year that it would be hard to top 
the success of 2010, ” he said in an email. “To make this year’s BY ARIELLE SALLAI 
SENIOR STAFF WRITER
See SUN GOD, page 7WIZ KHALIFA TO HEADLINE SUN GOD 
THURSDAY , APRIL 4, 2011
 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
 VOLUME XLIII, ISSUE XLIII
Julio Angel 
Garcia-Puente
See MURDER, page 3
PHOTO  BY JOHN  HANACEK /GUARDIANMAIN STAGE
WIZ KHALIFA
CRYSTAL CASTLES
JIMMY EAT WORLD
MIKE POSNER
BEST COASTDANCE TENT
JFK OF MSTRKRFT
ADDITIONAL PENDING 
ANNOUNCEMENTTHE RACE IS ON.  THE EDITORIAL BOARD MAKES ITS PICKS FOR NEXT YEAR’S A.S. COUNCIL. PAGE 4.
iNSIDE
:762,5 :762,5
:<9-9,769;
05:0+,50./;>(;*/
MONDAY
Height:  4 feet
Wind: 2-6 mph
Water Temp: 66 FTUESDAY
Height:  3-4 feet
Wind: 3-5 mph
Water Temp: 66 F
WEDNESDAY
Height:  3-4 feet
Wind: 3-7 mph 
Water Temp: 66 FTHURSDAY
Height:  5-6 feet
Wind: 4-8 mph 
Water Temp: 66 FLOW
$2.89
On the Go Gas, El Cajon
500 N 2nd St. and E. Madison Ave.
HIGH
$3.62
Chevron, Paciﬁc Beach
1565 Garnet Ave. and Ingraham St.THURSDAY FRIDAYMONDAY
H 66 L 46TUESDAY
H 68 L 50
MONDAY TUESDAY.(:7,9.(3365:<9-9,769;50./;>(;*/-69,*(:;
>,)7633
DID YOU ENJOY DRAKE’S 
PERFORMANCE AT THE SUN GOD FESTIVAL?
√  Yes
√  No
√  I don’t know:<590:,
:<5:,;5:47  A.M.
7:43  P.M.
WEDNESDAY
H 62 L 48THURSDAY
H 69 L 50
THURSDAYWEDNESDAYWWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG*VTPJZ
:\U.VK7OV[VZ)LOPUK;OL*V\U[LY3L[[LYZ[V[OL,KP[VY*S\I/VWWPUN *SHZZPÄLKZ:\KVR\
By Jake Boissonault 
Contributing Writer
“Fiercely independent” student 
radio station KSDT has given up on plans to obtain an FM frequency. Station managers are now looking to build a radio tower to pursue an AM frequency instead.
KSDT station co-manager 
Meredith Wong said that the AM tower would cost approximately $100,000 and that she hoped it could be located in a central area of campus — although she was unsure where that would be. 
“We’re really serious about it, 
but we haven’t started much of the research, ” Wong said. 5,>>(=,
See TOWERpage 12
/W^:MTMI[M[;\I\M*]LOM\*()<+.,;*90:0:
By Regina Ip
Associate News Editor
Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger 
presented his revised 2010-11 state budget last week, a plan that includes a new round of fund-ing increases for public colleges, but that suggests cutting $3.7 bil-lion from health-care services that impact low-income families who depend on state welfare programs. 
The suggested allocations to 
the University of California are nearly identical to the ones from Schwarzenegger’s January propos-al, including the restoration of the $305 million cut last year and an additional $51.3 million in finan-cial aid toward the 5,121 eligible students in the system who are not currently being funded. However, the governor’s newest budget would negate his January proposal 
to cut $111.8 million set aside to a c c o m m o d a t e  g r o w i n g  e n r o l l m e n t   
in the UC and CSU systems. 
In order to absorb California’s 
$19.1 billion budget deficit, other services would suffer major cuts — including a proposed $3.7 billion from in health care, that would cut the Medi-Cal program for the poor, along with state in-home support for the disabled. In addi-tion, the budget takes into account Proposition 98 — which passed in 1988 and guarantees a minimum pool of money for schools. Under 
See FUNDINGpage 7
555555555555555,,,,,,,,,55555,,555555,,55,,,55555555,,,,,,555555555,,,555555,55555555555555555555,,5555555,,55,,,5555,,555555555,,55,5555,,,,5555,5,,,,,,,,5555,,,,,5555,,,,,,,,,,555,,,,,,,,,55,,,,,,5555,,,,,,,555,,,,,,55,,5555,,,,,,,>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>(>(>(>(>(>(>(>(>(>(>(>((((((((((>(>>((>(>((>((((((((((>(((>>(((========,=,=,=,=,=,=,=,==,======,=,=,=====,,========,==,===,=,=,=,=,=======,=,,=========,=====,====,=,=,==,=,==,=,,==,=,,,,=,=,==,=,,=,,=====,,,,,,==,,=,,,,,==,,,,,,,=,=,,,MONDAY , MAY 17, 2010
WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
This year’ s Sun God Festival — with acts like B.o.B, Relient K, Michelle Branch and headliner Drake — attracted a packed house on May 14. For the second time in Sun God history, all 16,500 student wristbands and 3,500 guest tickets sold out.      In 2008, the first time this happened, tickets 
didn’t sell out until the day before. This year, all tickets sold out by 2:30 p.m. on Friday, at which time students were turned away.
According to Associate Vice President of 
Concerts and Events Alex Bramwell — who organized this year’ s Sun God Festival — the sell-out was due to the popularity of the event’ s leading acts.
“W e get complaints and yelled at when stu-
dents can’t bring their guests, but at the same time, we get yelled at and complaints when the students can’t bring themselves — so finding 
a good balance between those two is tough, ” Bramwell said. “W e had the same numbers as last year. It just turned out this year to be more popular of an event; more students wanted to come. ”
At the 2008 Sun God Festival — when 
students wristbands were distributed for the 
entire week leading up to the event — tickets ran out on Thursday, leading students to pur-chase all the leftover guest tickets for them-selves that Friday. 
In 2009, students waited in line for up to 
four hours on the morning of the festival to receive their wristbands. Despite the crowds, however, over 1,000 of last year’ s wristbands went unclaimed. 
See SUN GODpage 3Sun God Hits Capacity
Students turned away from annual festival on RIMAC Field
for second time in its 27-year history. 
By Hayley Bisceglia-Martin
),:;+(@6-;/,@,(9

ERIK JEPSEN /GUARDIAN65(9633
ERIK JEPSEN /GUARDIANERIK JEPSEN /GUARDIAN
WRISTBANDS
GUEST TICKETS2010
SOLD OUT
7,500 EXTRA2009 2008 2007
1,000 EXTRA
SOLD OUTSOLD OUT SOLD OUT SOLD OUT*
SOLD OUT*[\]LMV\[NWZKML\WJ]a\PMZMUIQVQVOO]M[\\QKSM\[IN\MZ_ZQ[\JIVL[[WTLW]\3;,<:ILQW
8TIV[\W.QTM
NWZ3
)5<W_MZ
Station banks on A.S. 
Council approval forits latest attempt toget on the air. 
Makeshift carts raced in the seventh annual Junkyard Derby on the day of the Sun God Festival.The final budget proposal from the governor puts education and statewelfare at odds.VOLUME XLII, ISSUE LV
the 
guardian is hiring.
    APPLICATIONS ONLINE AT UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG/
JOBS.  
 
    QUESTIONS? EMAIL jobs@ucsdguardian.org
DON’T FORGET TO PICK UP A COPY OF THE GUARDIAN ON 
CAMPUS STANDS EVERY MONDAY AND THURSDAY!WRITING PHOTOGRAPHY LAYOUT DESIGN ADVERTISING
                COPY READING ART/ILLUSTRATION MARKETING GRAPHICS
read between the lines.Capobianco and Lindsay Mills onto 
the field.
"The depth we have is great, ” 
Capobianco said. “The play doesn't drop at all when our subs come in. If anything, most of the time they'll raise the game, because that's when the other team is getting tired."
With eight minutes remaining 
in the first half, Mills connected with Capobianco, who threaded through the cen-ter of the Otter backline and sunk a left-footed shot from about 25 yards out.
Going into 
the second half with a 3-0 lead, the Tritons con-tinued to push upfield.
Again, Capobianco dribbled her 
way through midfield and found redshirt freshman forward Izzy Pozurama running on. Pozurama — who has seen significant playing time in the past few contests — easily scored to tally her second goal of the season.
And with just 50 seconds remain-
ing, Mills and Capobianco connected again, as Capobianco finished her second goal to end the game at 5-0.
"It's always hard playing teams like 
[CSU Monterey Bay], because we're expected to win these games, ” junior midfielder Jessica Wi said. “Really, all the pressure's on us. We have every-thing to lose and they have nothing to lose."
On Sunday, the No. 2 Tritons 
faced off against CSU East Bay, a North division squad that has only one conference win this season.The Pioneers came out hot to open 
the match, and in the 11th minute East Bay forward Eugénie Foote beat senior goalkeeper Kristin Armstrong with a shot to the upper corner.
The goal was Foote's third of the 
season, as well as one of only three goals to have been scored against Armstrong in eight matches.
"We came out a little too con-
fident and the goal against us gave 
us a reality check," junior forward Gabi Hernandez said.
Down 1-0, 
UCSD proceed-ed to pepper the Pioneer goal, out-shooting CSU East Bay 8-1 in the sub-sequent 20 min-utes. 
Sensing fatigue 
in the Pioneer defense, McManus fielded a batch of 
fresh legs to run the widths, bringing on junior midfielder Alexa Enlow, Mills and junior transfer Britnee Chesney. 
Minutes later, the Tritons were 
granted a free kick.
In the 30th minute Johnson sent 
a ball into the back post. Chesney beat her defender, volleying the ball in to score.
Tied 1-1 at the start of the second 
half, junior defender Ellen Wilson bypassed the midfield in favor of playing a long ball over the Pioneer backline. 
Wi got on the end of it and sent a 
low shot into the far post to give the Tritons the lead.
Just seven minutes later, McTigue 
put a header past the Pioneer goal-keeper off a service from Johnson to put the game at 3-1.
Wi would tally two assists before 
the end of the match, serving balls in from out-wide for Dixon and Hernandez to score.
The Tritons will continue to play 
against the CCAA North Division by taking a trip up north to face off against two of the strongest teams in the conference.
On Friday Oct. 7, UCSD will kick 
off against 5-2-1 Chico State in Chico. The Wildcats are currently the top-ranked team in the North Division, and have collected wins in three out of their past four matches. 
On Sunday Oct. 9, the Tritons 
will face off against CSU Stanislaus in Turlock.
“The games against Chico and 
Stanislaus are going to be really important, because both teams are at the top of the North Division, ” Armstrong said. “ And also because we only have a chance to play the teams up North once in conference p l a y.”
Readers can contact Rachel Uda at 
ruda@ucsd.edu.
The Master of Arts in International Studies
Students in the International Studies program at the University of 
San Francisco engage in a rigorous program that utilizes knowledge across disciplines to study and analyze global issues and problems. Students gain practical experience as they participate in a summer internship with either an international governmental or non-govern- mental organization. The curriculum is designed so students can complete the program in either 3 or 4 semesters depending on their needs.
Other Arts and Sciences Master’s Programs:
Asia Pacific Studies ■ Biology ■ Biotechnology ■ Chemistry 
Computer Science ■ Economics ■ Environmental Management 
International and Development Economics ■ Public Affairs 
Sport Management ■ Web Science ■ Writing (MFA)
DeTAIlS?  Call 415.422.5101 or email asgraduate@usfca.edu
APPlIcATIOn/InfOrMATIOn PAckeT?  
www.usfca.edu/grad/requestinfo
VISIT TheSe PrOgrAMS AT:  www.usfca.edu/asgrad
change the world from herepursue yourMaster’s Degree
THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY, OC TOBER 06, 2011 | WWW.UC SDGUARDIAN .ORG 11
into the penalty area, which argu-
ably could have led to penalty kick opportunities. 
Defensively, the Triton back-
line — junior Harris Rabin and sophomores Josh Van de Vrugt and Lamming, sitting in front of red-shirt sophomore goalkeeper Jesse Brennan — did well to keep the net clean. 
In his last four games, Brennan 
allowed only one goal and tallied 16 saves.
 When asked about the effec-
tiveness of the Triton defense in the past few matches, Lamming attributes the success to the work ethic of the team as a whole.
"The whole team's playing 
defense, it's not just the back line," Lamming said. "Starting from the forwards, everyone's working together, everyone's playing well, everyone's trying as hard as they can to get the ball back as soon as they lose it."
On Sunday, the Tritons posted 
another shutout, beating CSU East Bay by their largest margin of the season so far, 3-0.The first goal came just 57 sec-
onds in, when Wolfrom played a lofted ball into the front post for Ball, who struck the ball into the net for his first goal of the season.
“The early goal really helped 
to swing the momentum in our favor, ” Walker said. “It was great for three of our players to get their first goals of the season. ”
In the 30th minute, freshman 
midfielder Franco Cruz sliced his way through the midfield to find Portela on the left flank. 
Portela let fly a cross that 
deflected off the crossbar, landing at the feet of junior midfielder Kian Malek, who headed the ball past the Pioneer goalkeeper.
Walker capped the game by 
putting the Tritons up 3-0. Arsht found Walker in the 57th minute, who positioned himself one-on-one with the keeper. 
Walker, who worked himself 
back into the starting eleven after sustaining an injury last season, pushed the ball into the net to score his first goal of the season.
“I was really happy to get my 
first goal of the year, and I hope I 
can add to that tally this weekend, ” Walker said. 
With the pair of shutouts the 
Tritons take six points in the CCAA standings. 
And with the three straight 
wins, UCSD has pulled themselves above .500, with a 6-4 overall record and a 5-3 record in the CCAA.
 “It was really important for us 
to get our first six point weekend of the year, ” Walker said. “Hopefully we can carry this win streak into the coming weekend against Chico and Stanislaus. ”
The Tritons will head up North 
for their next batch of games. 
On Friday Oct. 7, UCSD is set 
to face off against 4-2-2 Chico State. The Wildcats hold the sec-ond spot in the CCAA North divi-sion and, like the Tritons, have put together shutouts in their last three matches.
On Sunday, UCSD will head 
to Turlock for a test against CSU Stanislaus. 
Readers can contact Rachel Uda at 
ruda@ucsd.edu.
▶ W. SOCCER, fromÊpageÊ12▶ M. SOCCER, fromÊpageÊ12Tritons String Together Third Straight Win 
No. 2 UCSD Continues Undefeated StreakMEN’S SOCCER PLAYER RATINGS: UCSD vs. CSUMB
CORY WOLFROM   4
Wolfrom had a slow start and a few tough touches, but his play definitely improved after he was put back onto the pitch in the second half.
GAVIN LAMMING     7
The sophomore sweeper was composed on the ball and did well to marshal his back line. HARRIS RABIN     6
One of the most consistent performers for the Tritons, Rabin worked hard up and down the flanks and shut down his mark in the back.
ALEC ARSHT   5
The normally solid midfielder had a little trouble controlling the ball in the center, but had some good runs going forward.
EVAN WALKER   4
Walker worked hard up and down the flanks, but had a difficult time making an impact in the run of play.ALEX PORTELA   5
Portela had a few tough touches, and early in the match had a hard time finding frame, but in the end was in the right place at the right time to put the game away.
SAM BALL   8
Always active in the final third for the Tritons, the forward’s frenetic play caused trouble for the CSUMB defense.
JOSH VAN DE VRUGT   5
Van de Vrugt was solid in the backline. He did well against his mark, but did little to advance the play forward.TAYLOR WIRTH   5
Wirth put in the work, but at times seemed lost in the middle of the pitch and had trouble dealing with the physicality of the match.
ANDREW KEIMACH   8
Keimach was an enforcer in the back, and coming off the bench, brought energy on both ends of the pitch.
JESSE BRENNAN    7
CSUMB only tallied one shot on goal for the game, but Brennan was solid in the back, and made a diving save late in the game to record the shutout.KIAN MALEK    4
Defenses usually have a tough time dealing with Malek’s speed, but coming off the bench, Malek had a difficult time working himself into the game.
PREVIEW: TRITON CLASSIC INVITATIONAL
CENTRAL ARIZONA  The Triton Cross Country team will be hosting the Annual Triton Classic Invitational on Oct. 8-9. The UCSD women will enter the meet 
ranked fifth in the West in the current USTFCCCA regional poll. The Triton men are currently ranked No. 8. Sophomore Chia Chang and junior Matt 
Lenahan were UCSD’s top finishers in the Tritons’ last meet-- the Runners Soul Erik Anderson Invitational.   The two will look to lead the Tritons this weekend. The woman’s 6k race will begin on 
Saturday at 9:00 a.m., followed by the men’s 10k race at 9:50 a.m.FORT LEWIS  
WESTERN NEW MEXICO CAL POLY POMONA  
CSU MONTEREY BAY 
CSU BAKERSFIELD   
UNIVERSITY OF PACIFIC  
SAN DIEGO STATE  
UC IRVINE   
CSU LOS ANGELES  
CSU SAN BERNARDINO  
SONOMA STATE  PARTICIPATING SCHOOLS
“It’s always hard playing 
teams like [CSU Monterey Bay], because we’re expected to win these games. ...We have everything to lose and they have nothing to lose.”
Jessica Wi
UCSD midﬁelderWOMEN’S VOLLEYBALL
CROSS COUNTRY
MEN’S/WOMEN’S SOCCER10/7
10/810/810/910/7VS CSU Monterey BayAT CSU East BayTriton Classic Invitational
AT Chico StateUPCOMING
UCSD
GAMES SPORTSRACHEL UDA
sports @ucsdguardian.orgCONTACT THE EDITOR12 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TH URSDAY , OCTOBER 06, 2011 | WWW.UC SDGUARDIAN .ORG
FOUR WIN WEEKEND
BY RACHEL UDA  • SPORTS EDITOR
PHOTOS BY BR IAN Y IP • Guardian 
Both Triton soccer squads posted 
two wins this weekend, collectively 
outscoring there opponents 14-1.
On Friday, deep into the 
second half of a game still drawn 0-0, the Tritons 
continued to chip away at a crum-bling Monterey Bay back line.
With just 10 minutes left to 
play, sophomore midfielder Cory Wolfrom collected a deflected shot from junior forward Evan Walker. 
Within a crowded 18-yard box, 
Wolfrom found sophomore mid-fielder Alec Arsht who was just able to thread a pass through to junior midfielder Alex Portela.
With his third shot of the 
game, Portela fired a ball low and hard to the mouth of the goal, which slipped through the hands of the Monterey Bay keeper, put-ting the Tritons up 1-0.
"It's a big win for us," sopho-
more defender Gavin Lamming said. "It was a tough game, we had to grind it out. I thought our team stuck together really well. We had a lot of early opportunities that we didn't put away, but we stuck together, played the best that we could and had to grind it out until we scored at the end."
The goal proved to be the game 
winner, but UCSD battled for the 1-0 advantage up and down the pitch.
The two teams tallied 16 fouls 
and four yellow cards — three of which were issued to UCSD. 
On two occasions, sophomore 
forward Sam Ball was shouldered 
See M. SOCCER, page 11The Triton women tallied 10 goals in their past two games, going 5-0 against CSU 
Monterey Bay in their home opener Friday, Sept. 30 and 5-1 against CSU East Bay on Sunday.
The team is currently No. 2 
nationally and sits undefeated at the top of the California Collegiate Association, with an 8-0-2 overall record and a 7-0-1 CCAA record.
Opening their weekend at home 
against bottom of the conference CSU Monterey Bay on Friday, the Tritons got off to a quick start. 
In the 11th minute, junior 
defender Hayley Johnson lined up for one of the Tritons' nine corner kicks of the night. Johnson — who’s tied for first in the nation for assists per game, having racked up 10 assists in 10 appearances — sent the ball to senior forward Sarah McTigue, who tapped the ball in to score.
Outshooting the Otters 20 shots 
to three, UCSD quickly doubled their lead in the 15th minute, when junior midfielder Danielle Dixon collected the ball on the right side of the field. Sitting far up the field in an attempt to pull an offside trap, the Otter defense failed to cover the left midfielder, senior Shelby Wong. Dixon sent a lofted ball to the feet of Wong, who easily put it away to score her second goal of the season.
With a comfortable 2-0 lead, head 
coach Brian McManus showcased the depth of his squad by going into his bench, bringing seniors Courtney 
See W. SOCCER, page 11Sept. 30, 2011
UCSD         VS.       CSU MB
MEN’S FINAL              1                  0
WOMEN ’S FINAL        5                  0
Oct. 2, 2011
UCSD         VS.       CSU EB
MEN’S FINAL              3                  0
WOMEN ’S FINAL        5                  1