MONDAY , OCTOBER 17, 2011 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG VOLUME 45, ISSUE 8
SPOKEN SPOKEN SURFÊREPORT INSIDE NIGHTÊWATCH
MONDAY
Height:  3 ft.
Wind: 6-8 mph
Water Temp: 66 FTUESDAY
Height:  3 ft.
Wind: 7-8 mph
Water Temp: 66 F
WEDNESDAY
Height: 3-4 ft.
Wind: 5-9 mph 
Water Temp: 66 FTHURSDAY
Height:  4 ft.
Wind: 1-6 mph 
Water Temp: 66 FLOW
$3.59
7-Eleven, San Diego - South
8395 Otay Mesa Rd. & La Media Rd.
HIGH
$4.18
Shell, Hillcrest
330 Washington St. & 4th Ave.MONDAY
H 75 L 60TUESDAY
H 71 L 59GASÊPERÊGALLON SURFÊREPORT NIGHTÊWATCH FORECASTsSPOKEN
WEDNESDAY
H 66 L 57THURSDAY
H 66 L 57
 THURSDAY WEDNESDAYBirdlandÊ.................................2
LightsÊ&ÊSirensÊ......................3TalkingÊtoÊMachinesÊ...............4OnÊtheÊRecordÊ.......................4StudyÊAbroadÊGuideÊ..............6SudokuÊ..................................9SportsÊ..................................12
MONDAY TUESDAY
THURSDAY WEDNESDAY
By Nicole Chan
Associate News Editor
University of California President Mark 
Yudof announced on Oct. 14 that a 17-person 
advisory committee will aid in the selection of Chancellor Marye Anne Fox’s replacement. The committee is aiming to hire the next chancellor by May 2012. 
“The advisory committee was released 
last week; however, the committee has not yet convened so I am unable to provide any information, ” A.S. President Alyssa Wing said in a prepared statement. “I do know that the advisory committee will be seeking input from a variety of different communities including staff, faculty, students and other community members. This is an extensive and thorough process that will include opportunities for important campus communities to provide input and identify the qualities they are looking for in the next chancellor. ”
Although the committee’s first meeting 
is closed to the general public, committee member Wing welcomes input from students in choosing the next chancellor. Undergraduate students are invited to attend a closed input session with the committee in its first meeting on Oct. 28. 
“This is one of the only times in which 
undergraduate students, other than myself, will be able to participate in a session during the selection process, ” Wing said. /uni00A0
Interested students can email Wing for 
more information. The 45-minute session is limited to 15 undergraduate students. 
The session coincides with the committee’s 
first meeting. /uni00A0
“[The search for the next chancellor] CommitteeÊ
CreatedÊtoÊAidÊSearchÊforÊChancellor
YOUR GUIDE TO PICKING YOUR STUDY ABROAD PROGRAM AND 
THE DESTINATIONS WORTH EXPLORING.LOST IN 
TRANSLATION
See CHANCELLOR,Ê page 3By Natalie Covate
Staﬀ Writer
Last Wednesday, A.S. Council passed the 
annual executive budget at a record pace of 
just over one hour. In past years, it has taken council until 1 a.m. or even two full meetings to pass a budget.
“One of the biggest things that differed 
from past year is preparation, ” A.S. President Alyssa Wing said in an email. “There were more people reviewing the budget than ever before. Vice President of Finance Kevin Hoang charged a Budget Appropriations Committee comprised of senators, and had the committee review past spending trends. ”
Wing and Hoang also put together an 
introductory presentation the week before the budget was discussed. Over 50 hours were spent in getting the $3.1 million budget organized.
“We cleaned up the budget by making it 
more reflective of our actual expendable funds, ” Wing said. “The previous budget included some numbers that could mislead us to believe we had more money than in actuality. ”
 A.S. Council traditionally over-allocates 
funding to help ensure that all of the year’s student fees are used for the students who paid into it. To help make up for the $25,000 that was overspent last year, A.S. Council didn’t over-allocate as much this year.
“The current budget has been reviewed by 
numerous individuals in every aspect. Unless there is an enormous enrollment drop, the over-allocation should work great, ” Wing said. “We normally have some carry-forward amount, but this year we did not. ”
The budget will be available on the A.S. 
website for students to review.
“If there are any questions, students can CouncilÊPassesÊ
ExecutiveÊBudgetÊinÊRecordÊTimeÊ
See BUDGET,Ê page 3
For some, the ideal study break would 
consist of climbing the Great Wall of China, or sipping tea on a balcony in Istanbul. Others want to ditch MTV 
spring break specials to volunteer in Ecuador. 
If it’s a case of wanderlust you suffer from, 
UCSD’s extensive study abroad program has a long list of options.
“UCSD offers more choices than any 
other UC, ” James Galvin, a director in the Programs Abroad office, said. “We’ve always been recognized as one of the leaders within the Universities of California in the field [of studying abroad].“ 
For the aspiring jetsetter, the Programs 
Abroad office, located in the International Center, offers several different programs.
The Education Abroad Program (EAP) is 
the most popular, spanning 30 countries and 100 universities worldwide, and offers almost every major.
“What students study in EAP are University 
See ABROAD,Ê page 6/uni25B6  LEISURE
By Rebecca Horwitz
Associate News Editor
The University Council - American Federation 
of Teachers is protesting the UC online pilot class 
program. The union members are trying to use their bargaining power to stop the program because they claim threatens their job security. 
According to a new provision, the university 
has to notify the union in case of a change to a term or condition of employment in the Memorandum of Understanding between the university and the union. UC - AFT President Bob Samuels said that the new provision made to stop the UCs from creating online classes gives the union veto power over any online program that it believes will negatively affect teaching jobs.
“We feel we could stop almost any online 
program through this contract, ” Samuels said in the Oct. 11 Inside Higher Ed  article, “The 
Lecturers’ Filibuster. ”
The university stated that the union does not have the power to shut down the program.
“They do not have the power to block the 
university from implementing new online programs, ” Spokeswoman for the Office of the President Dianne Klein said in an Oct. 11 Inside 
Higher Ed article “The Lecturers’ Filibuster. ”
Klein says the union cannot do anything more 
than provide a written notice that they do not like and agree with the program, which would hold the university to a discussion about the program with them no later than January 2013. 
Klein also said that although online classes 
could affect lecturers, they are not a valid reason to fire faculty.
“We couldn’t say, ‘Oh, we’ve got a computer 
program that can do your work — we’re getting rid of you, ” Klein said. 
The Online Instruction Pilot Project was 
created to test the effectiveness of online classes. If the program is successful, it will be integrated into the UC’s undergraduate curriculum by Jan. 2013. 
Members of the UC - AFT are worried that the online classes will cut teachers’ pay or replace UC faculty through outsourcing.
In 2009, California State University at 
Bakersfield administrators laid off four math instructors and created two math classes in its place based on mandatory lab time and an e-tutoring program. The program proved to be successful when it added the supervision of teaching assistants. 
UC- AFT has many concerns regarding 
the online pilot program. Union members are worried that there are not enough funds to support the program. They question the idea that the classes will be less expensive.
“We also do not believe that online courses as 
a platform will be able to maintain the quality of instruction expected by UC students, ” UC-AFT said on their website.
UC-AFT has posted a list of guidelines they 
would like the UC system to follow with the integration of online classes on the website. They have not yet taken any formal action.
“Make sure that no one loses a course or a 
job because classes are moved online: regulate workload; protect intellectual property; ensure academic freedom, ” UC-AFT said.
Professor of Electrical Engineering at UCLA 
and Nonresident Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institution John Villasenor wrote an opinion piece in the Los Angeles Times regarding the issue. 
Villasenor thinks that the option of online classes is incredible because it can reach people across the world. /uni00A0 But he does not think it is a good alternative to teaching.
“Something is lost when the classroom 
experience becomes virtual, ” Villasenor said in “Online teaching’s disconnect, ” a Sept. 28 Los 
Angeles Times  article, “Instructors owe it to their 
students to be in the classroom, and students owe it to themselves – and the rest of us – to do their best to be there as well. ”
Readers can contact Rebecca Horwitz at rahor-
wit@ucsd.eduUNION PROT ESTS UC ONLINE CLASSES DUE TO P OTENTIAL JOB CUTS CHANCELLOR SEARCH A.S. COUNCIL
UC ONLINE
Occupy Wall Street reveals status 
anxiety, but about an uncertain, 
perhaps damaged future.” 
ROBERT HORWITZ
Professor, Department of Communication“ON THE RECORD. HEAR THE EXPERTS WEIGH IN. PAGE 4. TheÊ UCSDÊ GuardianÊ isÊ publishedÊ MondaysÊ andÊ
ThursdaysÊduringÊtheÊacademicÊyearÊbyÊUCSD ÊstudentsÊ
andÊ forÊ theÊ UCSDÊ community.Ê ReproductionÊ ofÊ thisÊnewspaperÊ inÊ anyÊ form,Ê whetherÊ inÊ wholeÊ orÊ inÊ part,ÊwithoutÊ permissionÊ isÊ strictlyÊ prohibited.Ê ©Ê 2011,Ê allÊrightsÊreserved.ÊTheÊUCSDÊGuardianÊisÊnotÊresponsibleÊforÊtheÊreturnÊofÊunsolicitedÊmanuscriptsÊorÊart.ÊTheÊviewsÊexpressedÊhereinÊdoÊnotÊnecessarilyÊrepresentÊtheÊopin-ionsÊofÊtheÊUCSDÊGuardian,ÊtheÊUniversityÊofÊCaliforniaÊorÊAssociatedÊStudents.ÊTheÊUCSDÊGuardianÊisÊfundedÊbyÊadvertising.ÊIÊwannaÊjamÊitÊwithÊyou.
GeneralÊEditorial:Ê858-534-6580Ê
editor@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising:Ê858-534-0468
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax:Ê858-534-7035Business Manager
EmilyÊKuÊ
Marketing & Advertising Director
BrandonÊKatzer
Webmaster
BryanÊSmith
Marketing Assistant
ChristineÊAlabastro
Advertising Design & Layout 
AlfredoÊH.ÊVilanoÊJr.
A.S.ÊGraphicÊStudio Ê
Distributor
AmandaÊKuPage Layout
PraneetÊKolluru,ÊArielleÊSallai,ÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊ
JanetÊHseuh,ÊNathanÊToung,ÊKianaÊLaingAngelaÊChen
ArielleÊSallai
MargaretÊYau
LairaÊMartin
NicoleÊChan
RebeccaÊHorwitz
MargaretÊYau
MadelineÊMann
RachelÊUda
MinaÊNilchian
RenÊEbel
MonicaÊHaider
EmilyÊPham
AndrewÊOh
NolanÊThomas
RebekahÊHwang
HayleyÊBisceglia-Martin
MelodyÊChernEditor in Ch ief
Managing Editors
News Editor
Associate News Editors
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Associate
Focus/Le isure Editor
Hiatus Editor
Copy Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Art Editor
Development Editor
Design Program Di rector2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MON DAY, OCTOBER 17, 2011 | WWW.UC SDGUARDIAN .ORG
BIRDLAND By Rebekah Dyer
RIGHT ON TIME By Isa Verendia
Looking for a great pharmacy school?
Look no 
further than 
the University of
Michigan.Meet some alumni of California universities who recently enrolled 
as University of Michigan PharmD students.
1. Financial support unequalled by any
other U.S. pharmacy school.
2. Outstanding pay .
3. Job security in economically uncertain
times.
4. Unlimited opportunities to improve
people’s lives .
5. Unparalleled career choices .
6. Continuous growth potential .
7. Life and career mobility .8. The prestige of owning a degree from
one of America’s top-ranked pharmacy
schools.
9.Membership in an influential alumni
network spanning the globe.
10.The power to apply medical knowl-
edge at the forefront of technological 
innovation.
11.Small class size to maximize individual-
ized educational experiences.
12.One-to-one learning with world-
renowned faculty .Every year, UCSD graduates choose the PharmD Program at the University
of Michigan College of Pharmacy. In fact, nearly 20 percent of our
PharmD enrollment is comprised of alumn i from California universities. 
What accounts for Michigan’s popularity among Golden Staters? First, 
we are consistently ranked among America’s top pharmacy schools. Secondly,
we consider a lot more than GPA and PCAT scores when evaluating your
application.
Earn your bachelor’s degree at UCSD, and then earn your PharmD at U-M.
That’s what many UCSD students do every year.
To learn more about the PharmD Program at Michigan, visit our Web site at
www.umich.edu/~pharmacy. Or contact the College of Pharmacy at 734-764-7312 or
at mich.pharm.admissions@umich.edu.
Still looking for a reason to make Michigan your pharmacy school? Consider these :
Your future never looked brighter.
COMPILED BY  Rebecca Horwitz | associate news editor CURRENTS
UCSD SAN DIEGO CALIFORNIA
/uni25B6An Ansel Adams photography exhibit is 
currently at Geisel Library. The pictures exhibited 
are of UCSD in 1963. The exhibit closes Oct. 30.  
/uni25B6Jacobs School of Engineering faculty member 
Shu Chien has been awarded the National Medal of Science by President Obama. His research focuses on the workings of the cardiovascular system.   /uni25B6San Diego State is the second university in 
the nation to offer an LGBT major. The other university is Hobart and William Smith Colleges in Geneva, N.Y .  
/uni25B6A suspect was arrested in the case of a drive-by 
shooting at Tina’s Bar downtown on Friday, Oct. 14. A bouncer was shot in the chest, stomach and both arms.  /uni25B6 “ Austin Powers” actor Joseph Hyungmin Son 
allegedly killed his cellmate at the Wasco State Prison Reception Center in Kern County. Son is in jail for kidnapping a woman and torturing her.   
/uni25B6Astronaut Jose Hernandez is running for 
Congress in the 10th district. He has been encouraged by President Obama to run for a seat, and First Lady Michelle Obama has offered to help him campaign. THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MON DAY, OCTOBER 17, 2011 | WWW.UC SDGUARDIAN .ORG 3
LIGHTS & SIRENS
Friday, Oct. 7
2:20 a.m.: Citizen contact
/uni25B6 The subjects at the intersection of 
North Torrey Pines Road and North Point Drive were refusing to pay their cab driver. Will cooperate .
11:30 p.m.: Suspicious person
/uni25B6 Someone was trying to open doors 
at Revelle Commons. Unable to 
locate .
 Saturday, Oct. 812:30 a.m.: Welfare check
/uni25B6 A person at Argo Hall was down 
from possible excessive alcohol consumption but was breathing. Checks OK.1:55 a.m.: Welfare check
/uni25B6 A young female who previously 
called the RSO was still throwing up from alcohol and requested medics. Checked by medics.2:30 a.m.: Injury
/uni25B6 Two students got into an accident 
at Student Health Services. Transported to Thornton Hospital .
2:50 a.m.: Disturbance
/uni25B6 Someone was throwing rocks out 
of a window at Village East 5. Checks 
OK.
4:15 p.m.: Assist other agency
/uni25B6 The San Diego Police Department 
was looking for a kidnapping and robbery suspect at 1 Miramar Building 4. Information only .
7:17 p.m.: Fire
/uni25B6 The Guardian  newsstand near 
Price Center and Warren Mall was on fire. Report taken .
 Sunday, Oct. 91:40 a.m.: Assist other agency
/uni25B6 The drunk subject was being 
uncooperative with the resident advisor. Transported to detox.
3:51 a.m.: Alcohol contact
/uni25B6 There were two males carrying 
an intoxicated male at the Village Building 2. Checks OK.
4:50 p.m.: Drunk in public
/uni25B6 The police stopped the subject for 
looking drunk but the subject had a disability. Transported to VA Hospital 
at subject’s request .6:39 p.m.: Medical aid
/uni25B6 A young female fell while climbing 
over a gate at Grassy Knoll and suffered a hip injury. Transported to 
Scripps Medical Hospital.8:18 p.m.: Information
/uni25B6 There were suspicious people 
inside the laundry room at Matthews Apartments. Information only .
 Tuesday, Oct. 1112:01 a.m.: Possession of marijuana
/uni25B6 The police confiscated marijuana at 
Black Hall. Report taken .
12:11 a.m.: Assist other agency
/uni25B6 The San Diego Police Department 
was dealing with a suicidal subject at Gilder Port. Information only .
10:36 p.m.: Disturbance
/uni25B6 Two possibly drunk subjects 
refused to leave Argo Hall. Unable 
to locate .
 Wednesday, Oct. 126:48 a.m.: Assist other agency
/uni25B6 The SDPD was looking for a 
robbery suspect on Poole Street. Unable to locate .
2:43 p.m.: Vandalism
/uni25B6 The Stonehenge by Pepper Canyon 
Hall was damaged. Information only .
6:36 p.m.: Trespass
/uni25B6 The subject was asked to stop 
going on the roof but kept refusing. Res Life handling .
 Thursday, Oct. 1312:25 a.m.: Citizen contact
/uni25B6 A group of people were outside 
Africa Hall throwing objects at a window. Will cooperate .
9:22 a.m.: Information
/uni25B6 The Student Center received 
annoying phone calls. Information 
only.
3:47 p.m.: Citizen contact
/uni25B6 The owner of a vehicle was 
concerned about continuously finding nails in his or her tires at International Medicine Group Building 4. Information only .
— Compiled by Sarah Kang  
S/t.sc/a.sc/f.sc/f.sc W/r.sc/i.sc/t.sc/e.sc/r.scCouncil Allocates Additional $2,000 for Hullabaloo 
direct them to Kevin [Hoang] or myself, ” Wing said. “We have put many hours into ensuring that our budget will benefit the students we represent and serve. ”
Overall, councilmembers have 
received positive feedback regarding the budget.
“During the open forum portion 
of...the budget meeting, there were many A.S. members noting the efficiency of the new A.S. Council and the budget process, ” Wing said. “We have received positive feedback from staff as well in how the whole budget process was a collaborative and constructive process - not adversarial as it has been in the past. ”
However, the budget was challenged 
during the meeting. The first came with the budget for the new fall quarter event, Hullabaloo. Traditionally, the main concert event of fall quarter is Fall Fest, which presents three musical artists. Last year, this event cost A.S. Council about $135,000.This year, A.S. 
Council allocated $60,500 to the event, which was the primary reason for the creation of the Hullabaloo event, which is more like a carnival event than a concert event. Since it is a new event, however, Associated Vice President of Concerts and 
Events Oliver Zhang asked council for additional funds.
“Since this is the first year of this 
concert, I think we need to invest now or we could lose an opportunity in the future, ” Zhang said during the A.S. Council meeting.
Zhang emphasized that the extra 
money would mostly be helpful in ensuring that the event didn’t go over-
budget, rather than a necessity to make sure the event got off the ground. The Hullabaloo budget passed at $62,500.
The Office of External Affairs 
requested a $2,000 contingency fund — an emergency fund for unforeseen circumstances — due to travel expenses that the office has had to face in the past. Since this addition was taking place without a subsequent cut elsewhere in the budget, it was also met with some opposition.
“We [went] through every line item 
of last year’s budget with this year’s budget, and last year, External Affairs under-spent [their allocated funds] while Concerts and Events spent every penny, ” Wing said during the A.S. Council meeting.
Once the rest of the budget met 
no conflicts, A.S. Council decided to give the External Affairs office its contingency fund.
Readers can contact Natalie Covate at 
ncovate@ucsd.edu/uni25B6 BUDGET, from page 1
/uni25B6 CHANCELLOR, from page 1UC President Hopes to Appoint Chancellor by May 2012
of the chancellor are crucial to 
[UCSD] continuing on its path of excellence. ”
According to the UC Regents’ 
policy on appointment of chancellors, the five faculty members on the committee are required to submit no less than five potential candidates to the committee for its consideration. 
During the process, the other 
members of the committee are allowed to consider and suggest other names, in addition to interviewing candidates. 
After the committee has completed 
its evaluations and advised Yudof in his final selection, he will submit his recommendation for Chancellor Fox’s replacement to the UC Regents.
“ As Marye Anne Fox demonstrated 
in adding striking breadth and depth to the university’s already sterling reputation, strong leadership is essential to quality, ” Yudof said in an Oct. 14 UCOP press release.
Yudof is aiming to have the next 
UCSD chancellor selected by May 2012, in order to present his choice at the Board of Regents meeting.
Chancellor Fox is stepping down 
in June 2012 to return to teaching and researching as a distinguished professor of chemistry at UCSD.
Committee members include:
/uni25B6 UC Regents Dr. William de la Peña, 
Eddie Island, George Kieffer, Bonnie Reiss and Charlene Zettel
/uni25B6 Robert Anderson, chair of the UC 
Academic Council and UC Berkeley professor of economics and math 
/uni25B6 Elizabeth Bjork, professor, UCLA 
Department of Cognitive Psychology
/uni25B6 James Carmody, professor, UCSD 
Department of Theatre and Dance/uni25B6 Sandra Daley, professor, UCSD 
Department of Pediatrics
/uni25B6 Katja Lindenberg, professor, UCSD 
Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry
/uni25B6 Dave Warg, UCSD Staff Association 
chair and facilities manager for computer science and engineering
/uni25B6 A.S. President Alyssa Wing-
/uni25B6 R. John Alaniz, UCSD graduate 
student in history and former chair of the Graduate Student Association
/uni25B6 Alumni representative Peter Preuss 
of the Preuss Family Foundation
/uni25B6 Dr. Irwin M. Jacobs of the UCSD 
Foundation
/uni25B6 Ex-officio committee members 
President Yudof, and Sherry Lansing, chair of the Board of Regents
Readers can contact Nicole Chan at 
n3chan@ucsd.eduI think we 
need to invest now or we could lose an opportunity in the future.”
OLIVER ZHANG
ASSOCIATED VICE 
PRESIDENT OF 
CONCERT S AND 
EVENTS“A series of foolish economic and political mis-
steps has led the Californian educational system — including the San Diego Unified 
School District — to the edge of a precipice. 
It’s not just teaching jobs and art enrichment 
programs that are at stake; if the school districts don’t get their act together come December, the financial stability of the state could cave under bil-lions of dollars in deficit. 
The problems here are many. Let us count the 
ways.
One. Over the last four years, the state’s edu-
cation system has seen $15 billion worth of cuts in education, forcing school administrations to scramble to patch up the gaps. SDUSD alone has endured a $450 million budget cut since 2007-08. The impact — a 15 percent reduction in faculty and support staff — has been felt throughout the district. 
Two. More recently, Gov. Jerry Brown signed the 
state’s “balanced budget” in July that predicted a $2 billion revenue windfall that was unlikely to hap-pen. Months later, it has become readily apparent that this $2 billion windfall will not be met come December, a scenario that would trigger $1.5 bil-lion in education cuts statewide — $30 million for SDUSD alone. 
Three. One proposed solution is to shorten the For years, the most desperate desire of my materialist heart was to own an iPhone. And 
now, one AT&T contract after hav-ing this wish fulfilled, I can finally face the truth. 
It was all a waste. I was never 
meant to have a smartphone.
Truth is, I’m not a tech-savvy 
user with a brain that runs like an RSS feed and eyes that process the world through an Instagram lens. I have a grand total of five unique apps, and none of them include Angry Birds — though I’m sure someone out there finds my audio 
Mandarin dictionary just as intrigu-ing. 
The mail feature is defunct 
because I hate becoming anxious over new messages that turn out to be from coworkers asking about Friday’s pizza order. I’ve purpose-fully made Safari difficult to access. I have no videos. Worst of all, I’m scared of Foursquare and won’t let my phone know where I am, or allow my friends to check me into “Places” on Facebook. 
Last night, it took me two hours, 
three attempts and five occurrences of force-quitting iTunes to download the new iPhone 5 software —/uni00A0and afterward, it looked like all I had to show were Newsstand and Reminder features. But, according to Roberto Baldwin of Wired, the upgrade does have an important, invisible compo-nent: enhanced location services. 
“Location services” denotes the 
GPS-based technology that allows the Maps function to know your exact location and the Nike+ app to track the length of a run. With the new iOS, apps like the aforemen-tioned Foursquare and Reminders will let users know via notifications when there’s something interesting nearby, be it a historical landmark or a four-star restaurant. 
It’ll show us tailored bits of eso-
terica we might otherwise miss. It’ll make us become more integrated with our environment. And, says Baldwin, it’ll also “allow us to be stalked like never before. ”
Therein lies the dilemma. This self-proclaimed privacy 
freak is no stranger to the crime of overshare (just ask my seventh-grade Xanga), but in recent years I’ve become increasingly obsessed with Web and location privacy. We’ve all heard the “Facebook is Big Brother” spiel and tired 1984 refer-
ences. 
There’s research galore about 
the harm of obsessively curating online personas and the effects of being watched. For example, a study covered by Scientific American showed that people cleaned up after themselves more when there was a poster with an image of human eyes nearby. And if you thought that the data doesn’t add up, there’s even a 2010 documentary, “Erasing David, ” about a British man who tries to disappear off the grid. Predictably, his trackers use his online and loca-tion information —/uni00A0what David calls OPINIONMARGARET YAU
opinion @ucsdguardian.orgCON TACT THE EDITOR4 THE UC SD GUAR DIAN  | MO NDAY, OCTOB ER 17, 2011 | WWW. UCSDG UAR DIAN.ORG
It’s Not Stalking 
When You Give it All Away Crisis Management
See CUTS, page 5
JEFFREY  LAU/GUARDIANTalking to 
Machines
ANGELA CHEN
shchen@ucsd.edu
Talking to 
Machines
When the first Tea Party 
protests emerged in early 2009, the movement 
asserted a libertarian strain of con-servatism that had, in the previous decade, been overshadowed by other ideological strains manifested in cul-ture war rhetoric and neoconserva-tive foreign policy. 
Having this libertarian orienta-
tion, the Tea Party’s protest of the Wall Street bailouts included a critique of crony capitalism that resonated with the broader public and even resembled criticisms posed from the Left about corporatist eco-nomic structures./uni00A0/uni00A0/uni00A0/uni00A0
Exactly how and when the Tea 
Party made its original critique is as important as the critique itself./uni00A0/uni00A0The movement asserted its interpretation of the economic crisis in a moment when the public was searching for a narrative that would make sense of what the financial collapse meant and how it happened./uni00A0/uni00A0
Disenchanted with the 
Republican Party, the conserva-tive base abandoned its tradi-tional mouthpiece and became the first national group in the Great Recession era to express its economic resentments through the medium of street protest./uni00A0/uni00A0Not only did this ultimately result in historic victories for the Republican Party in the 2010 midterm elections, it more impor-tantly changed the national conversa-tion and moved the ideological goal posts of American politics. In fact, all subsequent policy discussions deal-ing with the downturn were argued within the Tea Party’s rigidly anti-statist terms./uni00A0
/uni00A0That is up until now./uni00A0A new street protest move-
ment called Occupy Wall Street has emerged on the national stage to make the left-wing critique of the Great Recession that the for-mal representatives of the political left have been unable or unwilling to make./uni00A0/uni00A0While the Occupy Wall Street Movement shares the Tea Party’s repudiation of the collusion between Wall Street and D.C., it targets the other side of the corporat-ist coin, shedding light on aspects of the Recession the Tea Party has obscured, namely, the role the finan-cial sector and corporate America played in causing the downturn and in amplifying economic inequality./uni00A0
As the Tea Party did in 2009, 
OWM is starting to shift the national conversation moving the discussion away from debt and spending toward taxes, regulation and political reform. Could this momentary shift lead to electoral and policy victories for the Left?/uni00A0/uni00A0Will OWM “occupy” the Democratic Party? Or will it lead to the even greater political feat, a rever-sal of the conservative interpretation of the Recession and the establish-ment of a new common sense about the economy and its decline?
— Reece Peck
PhD Candidate, Department of 
Communication
Both Occupy Wall Street and the other recent political movement of note, the Tea 
Party, represent grassroots popular discontent with the structure of the contemporary American political system. Each movement manifests features of populist anti-elitism. That is to say, each movement believes that elites run the show and that political institutions are walled off from the needs, desires and pref-erences of ordinary Americans.
There the similarities mostly 
end. The movements represent a battle over fundamental political principles. The Tea Party believes that the federal government has grown too big and intrusive, has undermined free market capital-ism and has compromised the individual’s ability to control his or her life. Occupy Wall Street holds that large corporations and espe-cially the big financial institutions have ruined the economy, in part because their risky and greedy prac-tices were not properly regulated by government oversight. Put very simply, for the Tea Party the bad guy is the profligate federal govern-ment; for Occupy Wall Street the villain is Wall Street – and its allies in Congress.
While this is a clash of fun-
damental political principles, the difference between the Tea Party and Occupy Wall Street can also be seen as a playing out of what the historian Richard Hofstadter called “status anxiety. ” /uni00A0The Tea Party looks to the past and some nostal-gic hankering for the glory days of American life – which is revealed in the demographics of Tea Party sup-porters, who are overwhelmingly white, evangelical Protestant, older and wealthier than most Americans. When Tea Partiers cry, “We want our country back!” it can only be for the restoration of their authority in politics and the culture. Occupy Wall Street reveals status anxiety, but about an uncertain, perhaps damaged future – also revealed in the demographics of its support-ers, who are largely young people with debts, no jobs and perhaps no prospects.
One small observation about 
communication and politics: Notwithstanding all of the hoopla about social media, it is interesting that it is the old-fashioned face-to-face protest march and rally that galvanize political commitment and command attention. And notwith-standing the remarkable organizing capabilities of social media, what did Occupy Wall Street do after a couple of weeks of interacting in New Y ork’s Zuccotti Park? /uni00A0They put out a newspaper. Why? — Because a newspaper conveys a sense of place and the experience of being part of an actual social move-ment in formation.
— Robert Horwitz
Professor, Department of 
Communication
Two Movements With Different PurposesON THE RECORDWHA T DOES THE  OCCUPY WA LL STREET MOVEMENT SAY ABOU T THE 
CURRENT  POLITICA L CLIMA TE AND HOW AMERICAN MASS PROTESTS 
ARE CONDUCTED?
Occupy Movement has Deeper Political Potential
See LOCATION, page 5Fixing a precariously balanced budget means deep cuts to the California education system, 
leaving no job or program safe.
BY MARGARET YAU /bullet.case MANAGING E DITORTHE UC SD GUAR DIAN  | MO NDAY, OCTOB ER 17, 2011 | WWW. UCSDG UAR DIAN.ORG 5
CROSSHATCHED By Samantha Sligh
“datarape” —/uni00A0to find him after 18 days. 
So when even the illusion of being watched is enough 
to modify behavior and most of us are never truly alone, 
what’s a girl to do?
I’ll be the first to admit that, ironically, I need loca-
tion-based services more than anyone I know. As some-one who only recently took the “student driver” sign off her car —/uni00A0nearly three years after getting her license —/uni00A0I’ d probably be stuck moving within a radius of 10 miles if it weren’t for the wonders of my in-car GPS. 
Luddite streak aside, I do sometimes want everyone 
to know that I’m blowing $50 on an entreé at Whisk n’ Ladle. And yes, I realize the silliness and logical incon-sistency of avoiding this particular type of technology.
It’s not that I think that the government is track-
ing my movements, or that anyone cares that I don’t go out on Friday nights but instead sit at my desk doing LTRU123 readings.  But my desire to be able to be truly alone, without anyone watching or able to find me, and thus for my life to be truly my own and not under scru-
tiny, has always been stronger than my thirst for novelty or convenience. 
So for the time being, I’ll continue disabling loca-
tion services and notifications and, rather hypocritically, using my in-car GPS instead of the one on my phone —/uni00A0though I know there’s not much difference from “the man” knowing where my car is versus “the man” know-ing where I am. 
I’ll continue looking up restaurants by “near San 
Diego” instead of “nearby” and resisting the urge to brag during the rare occurrence I actually go somewhere. 
Sometime soon, I’ll either learn that Apple is tracking 
me regardless and then turn full-heartedly to location services, or location services will become so integrated that I can’t do without. 
But until then, it’s —/uni00A0for as long as I can stand it 
—/uni00A0me, myself and I. And someone in the passenger seat to help me check where I’m going. school year by seven full days. However, the school year has already been reduced by five days due to budget cuts last year. Cutting the school year by another seven days is impossible for nearly half of California schools, including SDUSD, because of closed teaching unions.
Four. But in spite of these dire 
consequences, the school board has managed to make its situation even more alarming. Despite the fact that employee compensation already makes up 90 percent of the school district’s budget, the board still managed to grant across the board 7.2 percent raises for the 2012-13 school year. 
Another set of 3.8 percent raises 
— based on years on the job — is still quite in place. These raises, based on the idea that state-funded revenue would continue to rise year by year, are part of an outdated practice that will contribute to bring down the school district. 
Teachers and their unions argue 
that they have sacrificed enough over the past few years — that cuts should be made elsewhere. And though that may be true, the fact of the matter remains that SDUSD — and every school district across the state — must make concessions 
across the board. 
Teachers are undoubtedly impor-
tant, but a financially stable school is equally, if not more important. 
Due to such strict union laws, 
schools may be left with the rather savory option of trimming costs in other places. This might require lay-ing off custodians, cafeteria workers and other essential support staff, an option that may have dire conse-quences for the school district.
Asking union members to forgo 
raises is a feasible solution, if only temporary, option. 
Financially solvent solutions 
are few and far between, and the clock is ticking towards a worst-case scenario of a $100 million dollar projected deficit in the 2012-13 school year, according to SDUSD Superintendent Bill Kowba. 
Even without the mid-year bud-
get cut, the district is looking at a $30 million dollar budget gap. 
Solving this potential catastrophe 
will take far more than petitions to the governor or pointing fingers. 
The school board, the com-
munity and teacher unions alike must face the reality of the long road ahead and make concessions accordingly. 
Readers can contact Margaret Yau at  
m1yau@ucsd.edu.
Some Things are Better Left to Face-to-Face Interactions▶ CUTS, fromÊpageÊ4Concessions Needed Across the Board
▶ LOCATION, fromÊpageÊ4
OPINION
EAT, PRAY, APPLY.  APPLICAT IONS AT UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG. leisureMINA NILCHIAN
leisure @ucsdguardian.orgCONTACT THE EDITOR
lifestyle6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | M ONDA Y, OCTO BER 17, 2011 | WWW.UC SDGUARDIAN .ORG
The World’s a Classroom
THE GUARDIAN GUIDE TO STUDYING ABROAD
BEFORE YOU GO DESTINATIONS
Santiago, Chile
As a study abroad destination, Chile 
is often overlooked in favor of more 
touristy Latin American countries (Argentina, Brazil), but don’t be fooled by its relative obscurity: The nation is a gem of colorful culture and the image of a modernizing Latin America. /uni00A0
Chile-bound students will likely opt 
for the dense capital of Santiago, where over a third of the country’s population resides. City life, like the dizzying speed at which Chileans speak, whizzes by. /uni00A0
However, political turmoil is not 
absent from the country. The younger generation has been protesting since mid-June for free public education — a policy which had been the norm before the oppressive 17-year dictatorship of General Augusto Pinochet.
I’ve had the unexpected opportunity 
to study at both the public Universidad de Chile and the private Pontificia Universidad Católica (PUC). /uni00A0The stu-dent strikes made it impossible to con-tinue at la Universidad de Chile for the second semester, so I elected to switch. /uni00A0Both experi-ences were widely different. Bureaucracy is more ordered at PUC, while the students are more socioeconomically diverse in la Universidad de Chile. /uni00A0
And while the country’s ethnically homogeneous demography can sometimes make life 
as an exchange student a bit trying, it’s interesting to experience the cultural differences. At the beginning, it was hard to navigate the breakneck, slurred español chileno  and construct a 
whole new life, but weeks, then months went by and I found myself spitting colloquial phrases like the rest and running around the city into the wee hours of the morning. /uni00A0
 — Megan Young
Contributing Writer
credits. ” Galvin said, explaining that the credits are automatically added to a student’s transcript through EAP . “With EAP students who receive financial aid can use state, federal, UCSD institutional aid towards their EAP program”
The Opportunities Abroad Program 
(OAP) picks up what EAP misses. As a network of study abroad programs around the world, it offers a larger num-ber of destination options and types of programs, including internship and vol-unteer opportunities.
OAP credits are considered transfer 
credits, meaning a student who wants to go to graduate school has to take the extra step of combining and submitting their regular transcript grades and a separate study abroad transcript. OAP also accepts federal and state financial aid, but not UCSD grants.
For a closer, more unique experience, 
there is also the Global Seminars. The increasingly popular program — which started in 2008 — takes about 15 to 28 students who work closely with a profes-sor for a total of eight weeks, earning eight UC credits while completing rigor-ous coursework.
“The students make a really strong 
connection with the UCSD professor who can become a mentor too upon their return to campus and that profes-sor can make letters of recommendation for graduate or professional school, ” Galvin said.
Through the PAO, approximately 
1300 students study abroad. But as Galvin mentions, students also have the option of Alternative Breaks, a service project that takes students abroad dur-ing academic breaks to complete service projects in developing countries, as well as separate departmental programs.
With the PAO’s new model, advisers 
are taking even greater care to make sure traveling students waste no time in get-ting their degree.
“Instead of asking the students where 
do you want to study abroad we will first ask what would you like to study abroad, what academic subjects are your focus when you go abroad, ” Galvin said. “We’re really focusing on a tighter integration with our advising and the overall aca-demic mission of the university. ”
To make any abroad experience 
worthwhile, Galvin suggests that stu-dents work very closely with the PAO office prior to departure, and even dur-ing their trip. A student having issues during their time abroad can also email, call or even Skype the PAO office to find solutions.
To start your globe-trotting excur-
sion, make sure to visit the PAO office, or the Programs Abroad EXPO 2011, taking place on the Oct. 17 at the International Center.
 — Mina Nilchian
Senior Staff Writer
Beijing, China
There are, invariably, three rites of passage for the foreigner who studies abroad in Beijing: 
getting cheated while haggling, getting diarrhea and getting thousand-year history shoved down your throat.
Don’t get me wrong. Beijing is the cultural capital of China, a global, political and eco-
nomic powerhouse chock full of cheap, if low-quality, merchandise —/uni00A0but none of these will protect the timid student who cowers in the face of over-persistent saleswomen. Or the coed who couldn’t resist the sizzling street kabobs and ends up in the bathroom for six hours.
But for the student undaunted by extreme weather and overcrowding, Beijing as a study 
abroad destination offers an affordable, fascinating mix of modern and historical features, and —/uni00A0if you’re into that kind of thing — more culture shock than Western Europe can offer.
Unlike the more metropolitan and Westernized Shanghai, Beijing is famed worldwide 
for its postcard (or profile pic)-worthy landmarks, from the historical (the centuries-old Forbidden City) and political (Tiananmen Square, home to the 1989 protests) to the religious (Llama and Confucian Temples), architectural (Bird’s Nest stadium) and iconic (Great Wall). 
Beijing is downright cheap and international students are usually treated well by their 
See BEIJING page 7Barcelona, Spain
World-famous for its hedonism, Barcelona will happily claim your savings, your dignity 
and likely your heart on a trip abroad. This city isn’t cheap by any measure: hard as you might try to get by on tapas (Spanish appetizers) and liquor store-grade sangria, pricier pastures will always beckon, as there’s no shortage of enticing bars and restaurants. Barcelona gets a bad rap for its pick-pocketers, but exercising common sense should be enough to keep your purse safe. 
Classes themselves vary by program (there are three major universities within city limits, 
and several smaller schools), though you can generally expect smooth sailing. Instructors are mindful of the fact that you haven’t come 7,000 miles from home for another 8 a.m. lecture, and you’ll more often than not have plenty of downtime to explore. 
Y ou’ll need it: the list of museums, clubs (excuse me: discotecas ), and stunning feats of 
architectural genius is apparently endless. Highlights include the Miró Museum atop Montjuic, as well as Razzmatazz, an affordable nightclub that’s geared toward a younger, alternative clien-tele. Whatever you do, don’t just take a few snapshots of Gaudí’s Sagrada Familia and call it a trip: in Barcelona, the “study” is silent in “study abroad. ”
— Trevor Cox
Senior Staff Writer/uni25B6 ABROAD fromÊpageÊ1Anyone can tell you that Berlin’s one of a kind when it comes to fash-
ion, art and certainly history, but what they might forget to mention is a 
student’s godsend: it doesn’t get much cheaper on this side of the Atlantic. Two-Euro pizza and two-for-one drinks aren’t a bad place to start, but if you’re planning on extending your stay, 400 Euros a month buys you a one-bedroom apartment in the hippest part of town, Mitte. (Anyone who’s ever trolled Craigslist for a Costa Verde sublet understands the sheer magic of that price point). 
As for the classes themselves, be aware that Berlin’s largest college (and EAP partner), the Free University of Berlin, is situated a 30- to 45-minute train ride from the city center. Nevertheless, navigating Berlin — a behe-moth of a modern city, at eight times the size of Paris — should prove to be a cinch. Between the subway (U-bahn), above-ground train (S-bahn) and bus systems, a visit to any of the city’s myriad attractions is seldom more than a short ride away. Y ou’ll want to explore by the TV Tower and certainly the East Side Gallery (a colorful memorial to the Berlin Wall). But taking in the nightlife at legendary clubs like Berghain — a converted warehouse that doesn’t let the party stop ‘til well past sunrise — is truly the stuff of study abroad legend. 
— Trevor Cox
Senior Staff Writerrespective institutions. At Beijing Normal University, local students are stuffed four or six to a room, while UC students share doubles with private bathrooms and, most crucial during the humid summer, air condi-tioning. 
Most people come to Beijing 
specifically to study Mandarin; lucky for them, the professors’ expecta-tions of foreigners are so low that the classes are usually guaranteed easy As. Outside of the classroom, a surprising number of locals and service work-ers (waiters, etc) are unable to speak English, so there’s plenty of opportu-nity for practice and hilarious misun-derstandings.
Aside from being the seat of 
government and media, Beijing is also one of the world’s culture head-quarters. The student who heads to the Northern City (as the city’s name literally translates) shouldn’t forget to check out the free 798 art district, abundant concerts and, if she’s lucky, the spectacle of locals convening to dance every night under various land-marks. 
— Angela Chen
Editor in ChiefTHE UCSD GUARDIAN | MO NDA Y, OC TOBER 17, 2011 | WWW.UC SDGUARDIAN .ORG 7
STUDENT DISCOUNT WITH THIS AD!
COME BY EITHER OF
 OUR 2 LOCATIONS! 
8657 Villa La Jolla Drive "inside the mall above the Theater"
8650 Genesee Ave, "Next to the Post Office above Bristle Farms"    Costa Verde Center
DESTINATIONS, CONTINUED
/uni25B6 BEIJING fromÊpageÊ6
Florence, Italy
To Americans, Florence is a gold mine of art history and architecture, a 
foodie’s wet dream and the perfect starting point for exploring Italia.
To Italians, Florence is the city ruined by tourism.American students flock there each semester to gawk at Michelangelo’s 
David, climb to the top of Brunelleschi’s Duomo  or admire the gold-thread-
ed Botticelli paintings in the Uffizi. Still others are content to sit on the banks of the Arno eating “authentic” gelato or paninis. 
But they do all that in a city almost completely devoid of Italians. The 
influx of foreigners, and the sky-high cost of living, has driven them all away; the only natives left in the city are restaurant and hostel workers. 
But if your heart is set on living in Dante and Da Vinci’s hometown, then 
do Florence right. The Oltrarno district (across the river) remains an Italian holdout. Take the time to actually visit Florence’s museums and order from a café where the waiters say “ciao” when you walk in the door. And you can’t beat Florence’s central location for exploring the rest of Italy; all the north-south trains go through the capital of Tuscany. Y ou have easy public trans-port from Firenze to Rome, Venice, Cinque Terre, Bologna and the nature-friendly Tuscan hiking destinations besides.
— Hayley Bi sceglia-Martin
Senior Staff Writer
Berlin, Germany8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY, OCTOBER 17, 2011 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
CAMPUS 10.17-10.23CALENDAR
VERTIGO DANCE
COMPANY @
MANDEVILLE CENTER
8pmWED10.19MON 10.17
every monday in the guardian!
Submit your FALL events for FREE!
get listed ...
ucsdcalendar@yahoo.comKeep it brief . 30-60 words. Include the name of your
event, time, location and contact info.2pm
DR. THOMAS LEMIEUX 
(UNIVERSITY OF BRITISH COLUMBIA) - ECONOMICS BUILDING RM. 300
 
Dr. Thomas Lemieux from the 
University of British Columbia will present his current research.
10am
FREE YOGA CLASSES - THE ZONE
Get into The Zone for FREE YOGA!! Every Monday from 11:00am to 11:45am. Increase flexibility and stamina while toning muscles. Yoga is a great way to balance body, mind, and spirit. Mats are provided, and all levels of experience are welcome.
10am
PROGRAM ABROAD EXPO - 
LIBRARY WALK 
Don’t Miss the Programs Abroad EXPO. 
Representatives from more than 70 international study, work, volunteer and internship programs will meet with students, faculty, and community members.    
7pm
GLOBAL HEALTH INTEREST NIGHT - 
INTERNATIONAL HOUSE GREAT HALL
Looking for ways at UCSD to channel 
your interest in Global Health issues? Learn about health related student organizations, the Global Health minor and the Global Health Initiative at the UCSD School of Medicine
THU10.20
12pm
LEADING THE SUSTAINABILITY 
REVOLUTION: UC SAN DIEGO’S SECRET WEAPON - AMN HEALTHCARE - 12400 HIGH BLUFF DR. #100 SAN DIEGO, CA 92130
 
Join us for a stimulating lecture and 
discussion with San Diego’s very own world-expert in the field of sustainability – a program not to be missed by anyone involved in the clean technology community.
12:30pm
THERAPY DOGS! COME PET THE 
PUPPIES! - THE ZONE
Studies show that petting a dog lowers 
stress, and our canine companions prove it every time by putting smiles on faces. Join us at The Zone as we bring in therapy dogs from the organization Love on a Leash each week from 1:30 pm to 2:30 pm. As always, there is no cost or commitment involved... just walk in, get some love, then cruise along with your day!
SAT 10.22
7am
ANZA BORREGO: CANYONS, CAVES AND HOT SPRINGS 
- OUTBACK RENTAL SHOP , PEPPER CANYON.
Join us on this popular overnight trip. We'll explore mud 
caves, wildflowers, vistas and Native American Pictographs, soak in the hot springs, take in the amazing star display far from the contamination of city lights, explore the corners of Arroyo Tapiado Caves with our headlamps, and pick our way through the desert canyons. And on the way home: Julian Pie. Signup online, in person at the Rental Shop (behind Pepper Canyon), at Surf Shop (in PC), or call 858-534-0684. Students $95. Everyone else $135. This event brought to you by Outback Adventures and UCSD Recreation. recreation.ucsd.edu/Outback-Adventures/trips-and-classes/Caving-and-Hiking.html. SIGN UP EARLY, SPACE IS LIMITEDTUE 10.18
3:30pm
DR. FREDERICO FINAN - DEAN'S CONFERENCE ROOM - 
IR/PS ROBINSON BUILDING COMPLEX 
Dr. Frederico Finan from UC Berkeley will present his 
current research.  
3:30pm
DR. JONATHON WRIGHT - 
ECONOMICS BUILDING RM. 300 
Dr. Jonathon Wright from Johns Hopkins University will 
present his current research.    
4pm
FREE FOOD AT TASTY TUESDAYS COOKING 
DEMONSTRATION - THE ZONE
Drop into The Zone for amazing healthy cooking 
demonstrations!! FREE food every Tuesday! Arrive promptly at 5:00 pm. Every Tasty Tuesday features different local, organic, and vegetarian ingredients. Sponsored by Whole Foods, Cups Catering, Housing, Dining & Hospitality, Student Health, and Recreation.
7pm
INVISIBLE CHILDREN: 'TONY' - 
MULTIPURPOSE RM, SSC
Come to the Multipurpose Room in the Student Services 
Center to watch the screening of the Invisible Children movie titled 'Tony' followed by a panel with Invisible Children Roadies including Aci Nancy from Uganda. Afterward, there will be free time to chat with the people involved with Invisible Children and many others invested in this cause. The Lord's Resistance Army (LRA) is a rebel group operating in Northern Uganda and Southern Sudan. The LRA is accused of widespread human rights violations, including murder, abduction, mutilation, sexual enslavement of women and children and forcing children to participate in hostilities. Invisible Children uses film, creativity, and social action to end the use of child soldiers in Joseph Kony's rebel war and restore LRA-affected communities in central Africa to peace and prosperity.WED10.19
3pm
CES FALL SERVICE PROJECT: EARL'S GARDEN! - 
EARL'S GARDEN IN WARREN COLLEGE
Put down your books and get your hands dirty! The 
Center for Ethics & Spirituality fall service project is coming up Wednesday, October 19th from 3-5 PM volunteering at Earl's Garden. Part of the UCSD Sustainable Food Project, Earl's Garden is an on-campus community garden space producing student-grown organic produce for the campus to enjoy. A little garden work is a great way to relax and connect with the earth while getting to know some new peeps. Bring grubby clothes, closed-toe shoes, a water bottle, and meet at the CES at 3:00, or at Earl's Garden in Warren anytime from 3-5! The CES is located behind Center Hall, on the corner of Meyers Dr. & Rupertus Way.
6pm
CONNECT WITH RADY SCHOOL OF MANAGEMENT: 
FULL-TIME MBA OPEN HOUSE - OTTERSON HALL - MPR2 
Join Rady alumni, current students, and the Admissions 
team in an informal setting to ask questions and gain insight on what it takes to be a Full-Time MBA student at Rady. Live too far away to join us? We'll have a virtual option through Skype.
8pm
SPIKE & MIKE: SICK & TWISTED - THE LOFT
The infamous duo Spike & Mike dish out the most outrageous short films, guaranteed to shock and offend all but the most sick and twisted among us.
8pm
VERTIGO DANCE COMPANY - MANDEVILLE CENTER 
Vertigo Dance Company showcases the exceptional artistry and socially conscious vision of its artistic directors and partners in life, Noa Wertheim and Adi Sha’al.    
FRI10.21
FAMILY WEEKEND 2011 - 
MULTIPLE CAMPUS LOCATIONS
Join together with UC San Diego Triton parents and 
family members from around the country for the University's annual ALL-CAMPUS FAMILY WEEKEND! Visit the Family Weekend website for a detailed description of all events, and to register. http://parents.ucsd.edu/fw11.html 
10:30am
CHANCELLOR'S CHALLENGE 5K RUN/WALK FOR 
SCHOLARS - RECREATION INTRAMURAL ATHLETIC COMPLEX (RIMAC) 
The Chancellor's Challenge 5K is an important 
campus tradition with a legacy that will last long into the future. Established in 1996, the Chancellor's Challenge 5K has raised more than $2.5 million, benefiting more than 850 students.
12pm
FRIDAY INTERNATIONAL CAFÉ - 
INTERNATIONAL CENTER
Oktoberfest!  Please join us for a Chinese-themed 
lunch on the International Center’s patio.  The meal costs $5 and is served from noon until 1:15pm.   Lunch will include: Chinese BBQ Chicken, Rice, Spring roll, Green Salad, Mango Mousse. The UCSD Retirement Association is our sponsor.
7pm
SEX+MONEY FILM SCREENING (FREE) -
PRICE CENTER THEATRE
Sex+Money is a documentary following a group of 
photojournalists as they travel in an RV on a journey across the US, with the goal of bringing freedom to those enslaved. Come and learn how you can get involved and hear from Erica Greve, who is starting one of the first domestic human trafficking rehabilitation centers in America. Presented by Origins, a registered UCSD student organization. For more info about the film, see http://www.sexandmoneyfilm.com.
8pm
NOSFERATU: A FREE SCREENING WITH LIVE MUSIC - 
MANDEVILLE CENTER 
Free screening of F.W. Murnau’s classic 1922 silent film 
Nosferatu with a new score performed live by the San Diego New Music Collective.
8pm
HUGO WOLF QUARTET - CONRAD PREBYS CONCERT HALL 
This young, Vienna-based quartet continues to generate buzz for its intensely characterful performances of the standard and not-so-standard repertoire.  
8pm
UCSD-TV PREMIERE: LA JOLLA MUSIC SOCIETY: 
SUMMERFEST 2011: FINALE - UCSD-TV 
The 25th Anniversary concludes with works by Saint-Saens, 
Mendelssohn & Enescu.  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2011 | WWW.U CSDGUARDIAN . ORG 9
Guardian Classifieds are placed online and are FREE for UCSD. Low cost classified placements for our print 
edition are also available to the UCSD campus and the public at   ucsdguardian.campusave.com
Guardian Classifieds are placed online and are FREE for UCSD. Low cost classified placements for our print 
edition are also available to the UCSD campus and the public at   ucsdguardian.campusave.com
Housing
La Jolla Colony living room rent for $300. I am 
renting out the spacious living room @ La Jolla Colony apartment complex. It is 3 mins walking distance to Arriba school shuttle and 201 bus stop. You can have the whole living room space +patio. You will share the bathroom with one of the people. The bathroom is not inside the bedroom, therefore, it will be much more conve-nient than some of the apartment has bathroom inside the bedroom. If you are interested in the living room space, feel free to contact me either by email or cell phone. Reply online at ucsd-guardian.org/classifieds to Listing ID: 13400393
$675 master bedroom(single) - Master bedroom 
available on Decoro St. in UTC area. The complex is called “La Jolla Terrace. ” It’s walking distance from Costa Verde Shopping Center, UTC mall, UCSD Arriba Shuttle, and all the major shuttles in the area. Ideal for UCSD students and research-ers in the area. The room is very good size--pretty spacious. The apartment is on the second floor of the complex.Reply online at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds to Listing ID: 13411835
Master bedroom rent for $800 - I am a female 
UCSD student renting out the master bedroom with private bathroom and spacious closet. It is good size for single or double. The apartment is about 2 mins walking distance to Arriba school shuttle and 201 bus stop. If you are interested in the place, feel free to contact me either by email or by cell. Reply online at ucsdguardian.org/clas-sifieds to Listing ID: 13400390
SINGLE Room For Rent in La Jolla starting 
November 11th, 2011. 1 single bedroom in 2-story apartment for rent. 10 min walk from UCSD shuttle and bus stop (close to Vons). Quiet community close to parks. Unit has: 2 1/2 bathrooms (2 upstairs, 1/2 downstairs), patio downstairs, balcony upstairs, laundry room with washer/dryer, furnished living room and kitchen *MUST be OK with living with a small dog, NO smoking, Male/female both ok, Will share apart-
ment with 3 others (recent UCSD/UCLA alumni) Reply online at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds to Listing ID: 13465091
FoR sA LE
‘01 Audi A4 1.8T Quattro. 5-speed with low mile-age - $6750. Low mileage & lots of fun to drive! 2001 Audi A4 1.8L 4-cyl. Turbo with quattro all-wheel drive & 5-speed manual transmission. 93k miles. Good/excellent condition. Well main-
tained & reliable, Always garaged, Looks & runs great, No accidents, One owner, Very clean inte-rior. Bose premium sound, Universal transmitter, Split rear seats, Xenon headlamps, Fog Lamps, anti-theft & more! Priced below Kelley Blue Book. $6750/ first reasonable offer. Visit http://www.chanda.net/audi for more information or call/email for a test drive. Don’t miss this one! call: (858) 779-4248 email: audilj@gmail.com
JoBs
EGG DONOR WANTED!! - $6000 Loving couple 
with big dreams of starting our family in need of a generous soul willing to share her eggs with us. If you are Healthy, at least 5’5’ , beauti-ful, intelligent and creative with BLUE eyes and MEDIUM toned skin we’d love to hear from you. Please send recent photos, description of your-self and family health history to tracy333@aol.com. Compensation $6,000+
Data Entry / Project Coordinator - We are a 
construction/repair company located in Irvine, 
looking for a Project Coordinator / Data Entry Processor with Customer Services focus. Overview: This position is responsible for terri-tory work order coordination, billing/process-ing while maintaining superior vendor/client support. Tasks include interacting with vendors and the client on a daily basis via headset/email, completing high volume of work orders, and documenting notes/billing work orders in the computer system. Furthermore, this position is responsible for ensuring accuracy of data entry orders, diligently answering and following up inbound /outbound calls and emails with vendors/clients, while managing quality and consistency of work. Primary Responsibilities: 1. Process/bill high volume of work orders within a specified territory 2. Follow and adhere to work order procedures carefully and efficiently while facilitating a professional work environment. Reply online at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds to Listing ID: 13421376
Outside B2B Sales - Catapult Your Sales Career 
with Paycom Our CEO believes in rewarding a job well done! In 2010, he designed an Executive Compensation Plan that allows top performers to earn $100K+ within the first 12 months. Since this program went into effect, Paycom has had a 0% turnover rate with sales representatives having met one year of service./uni00A0  Paycom offers a unique opportunity for individuals who have a level of sophistication and drive that no other organization has in place. This position is a great fit for a someone who is interested in meeting with top-level Executives every day and helping them to optimize their current HR and Payroll processes./uni00A0  This professional sales position will teach you how to think at an executive level in a fast-paced environment. Starting base sal-ary is $45K plus uncapped commission, with the opportunity to increase your base salary up to $100K. We have a 50% close ratio - the best in 
the industry! Reply online at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds to Listing ID: 13421371
PART TIME SITTER NEEDED - Busy Carmel Valley 
family looking for occasional sitter for weekday afternoons and/or weekend evenings. $15/hour. Must be able to provide references. Please email cpeotspencer@aol.com for more information.
ACROSS
1 Whit e whale chaser
5 Cannes clergymen10 Foam ball maker14 Island nation near Tonga15 Wild animal16 Leaf-to-branch angle17 Difficult youngster18 Jolly holiday visitor19 Underground missile launch site20 Was disappointed, as with a performance
23 Shrinking Asian sea24 GPA booster25 Out-of-the-ordinary brews31 Lewd material32 Compassion from the judge36 DDE opponent37 Attorney general under Ronald Reagan40 Big Band __41 Smudges in a psychological test43 Lascivious look44 Calm by nature48 __ Arabia51 Not worth debating52 She replaced Paula Abdul as an 
“American Idol” judge
58 1999 Ron Howard film59 __ Mountains: south-central U.S. range60 Term referring to a prev. citation62 Actress Hatcher63 Mournful music64 Stun65 Spoken66 Seven Dwarfs’ only beardless member67 Spud’s budsDOWN
1 Ohio’s Wright-Patterson, e.g.: Abbr.
2 Give the job to3 Sink-cleaning brand4 Very small role5 1970s-’80s FBI bribery sting6 Fab Four member7 Ruination8 Cornerstone abbr.9 Attack à la Brutus10 ‘70s tennis star Ilie11 They’re marked with lit signs12 Lead the life of ___13 Plant life21 Bard’s “before”22 Spooky25 Actor Morales26 Mutant super-heroes co-created by Stan Lee27 Mammoth feature28 Hallowed29 Third shoe width beyond D30 Naval Acad. grad33 __-do-well34 Canadian tribe35 Lawn party site37 NBA Hall of Famer Hayes38 John or Jane39 Map feature with an elev.42 Torment diabolically43 Left on the table, as a bet45 Come out46 Organ grinder’s pet47 “Annabel Lee” poet48 Tend49 Birch family tree50 Prefix with violet53 Connecticut senator Chris54 Basso Pinza55 “The Wor ld According to __”56 “Buy It Now” online site (and where vowels 
were bought for 20-, 25-, 37-, 44- and 52-Across?)
57 Magnitude61 __ Moines10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MON DAY, OCTO B E R  17, 2011 | WWW.U CSDGUARDIAN . O R G
MONDAY , MARCH 29, 2010WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
VOLUME XLII, ISSUE XXXXI
:762,5 :762,5:<9-9,769;05:0+,
50./;>(;*/MONDAY
Height:  3-4 ft.
Wind: 8-10 mph
Water Temp: 62 FTUESDAY
Height:  4-7 ft.
Wind: 6-11 mph
Water Temp: 62 F
WEDNESDAY
Height:  6-8 ft.
Wind: 9-13 mph 
Water Temp: 62 FTHURSDAY
Height:  6-11 ft.
Wind: 1-14 mph 
Water Temp: 62 FLOW
$2.89
Quick Trip, El Cajon
596 N Mollison Ave. & I-8
HIGH
$3.89
Chevron, Point Loma
1704 Rosecrans St. & Nimitz Blvd.THURSDAY FRIDAY
MONDAY
H 73 L 64TUESDAY
H 63 L 54MONDAY TUESDAY.(:7,9.(3365
:<9-9,769;
50./;>(;*/
-69,*(:;
>,)7633
SHOULD THE UNIVERSITY 
PROVIDE HEALTH CARE FOR PRISONERS?
√  Yes
√  No
√  I don’t know:<590:,
:<5:,;6:39 A.M.
7:07 P.M.
WEDNESDAY
H 54 L 47THURSDAY
H 52 L 45
THURSDAYWEDNESDAY
WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG*VTPJZ
3PNO[Z:PYLUZ
([>P[»Z,UK
3L[[LYZ[V[OL,KP[VY
:P[L:LLU 
*SHZZPÄLKZ
:\KVR\BECOMING DR. BOSS-MAN
UNPAID LABOR IS THE HOTTEST NEW BULLET POINT
ON YOUR RESUME. PAGE 8
VOLUME XLIIISSUE XXXXI
ON YOUUR RE
S
UME.
PPPPPPPAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE  8888888888888888888888
campus climate. 
Sanchez said the leg-
islation would target not 
only hate speech — which includes racial slurs — but 
also “acts with intent to 
terrorize, ” the legal word-ing used by the university to describe a Feb. 25 inci-dent in which a noose was found hanging in Geisel 
Library.
“The legislation would Obama Cuts 
Banks from Loan Game/ZIL[;]M
=VQ^MZ[Q\aNWZ 5QTTQWV
By Hayley Bisceglia-Martin
News Editor
A rider bill attached to — and somewhat 
overshadowed by — President Barack Obama’s 
landmark health-care reform will remodel the 
student loan system by cutting out private lend-ers and setting aside billions more in federal dollars for financial aid.
Currently, the U.S. government provides 
money to banks or corporations which arrange loans for students, then collect interest at a profit. According to the 
Congressional Budget 
Office, bypassing private 
lenders and giving loan funds directly to students 
will save the federal gov-ernment $1 billion over the next year alone, and $62 bil-lion over the next 10 years.
The vast majority of 
that $62 billion will be reinvested in Pell Grants, $13 billion of which will be devoted to increasing stu-dent eligibility and avoiding a cap on the money students can receive. 
The additional funds 
will push the maximum 
award for the 2010-11 academic year from $5,350 to $5,500. The federal government is covering this increase and allowing for more like it by 2010 with $36 billion in additional aid.
Of the remaining $13 billion in government 
savings, $10 billion will go toward reducing the federal deficit and about $2.55 billion will go to 
institutions that serve minorities.
The larger health-care bill also affects stu-
dents with a provision that allows all Americans to stay on their parents’ health-care policy until age 26, instead of the more typical 19.
Readers can contact Hayley Bisceglia-Martin at 
hbiscegl@ucsd.edu.By Ayelet Bitton
Associate News Editor
The University of California 
will pay back $38 million in fees to 
students in professional programs, after a San Francisco Superior Court judge ruled on March 10 that the university had raised fees illegally from 2003 to 2007.
According to evidence present-
ed throughout the case, — Andrea 
Luquetta et. al v. Regents of the University of California — official 
university documents, including an 
online fee guide, stated that fees 
would not be increased for continu-ing students at any point throughout 
their period of enrollment. 
The court ruled that these mate-
rials constituted a contract, which the university then violated.
“The contract between the plain-
tiff students and the university included a binding commitment not to raise the professional degree fees for continuing students, ” Superior Court Judge John Munter said in a statement.
The ruling applies to nearly 
3,000 students who enrolled in UC professional schools — including law, business and medicine — before August 25, 2003.
Four students from schools such 
as the UCLA School of Law and UCSF School of Medicine contacted law firm Altshuler Berzon LLP in 2007 to take up their case against the university.
Danielle Leonard, who works 
for the firm, said that while fee increases may be necessary, students must be informed of the possibility of such increases before they go into effect. In this case, students were not notified
“The court concluded that the 
university had breached its contracts with the students for the price of their education, because the university had promised to keep the amount of the professional degree fee constant for the period of their enrollment, and then violated that promise, ” Leonard said.
Over the last several years, 
the university has raised fees for both undergraduate and graduate students systemwide to account for state budget cuts. 
Those affected by the case will 
receive up to $8,000, an amount that has sharply increased during <PM*QTT
\W*IV0I\M
Students move to outlaw hate speech on campus.
After repeated acts of 
racism rocked the UC campuses dur-
ing Winter Quarter, the UC Student Association 
— a group that aims to represent the the 10-cam-
pus university — is work-
ing with the UCSD Black Student Union to pass By Angela Chen s News Editor
See LAWSUITpage 7$49 BILLION
Amount added 
to Pell Grants
26
New age limit for children on parent’s health insurance$5,500
New maximum Pell Grant award
=+;,8ZWN
-`IUQVM[-IZ\PY]ISMQV+PQTM
By Kashi Khorasani
Staff Writer
Six months back, UCSD structural 
engineering professor Jose Restrepo 
was in Chile, ironically working on preventive earthquake measures. 
Cue the 8.8-magnitude earthquake 
See CHILEpage 2
ANYTHING
BUT CLOTHES
Students took a break from ﬁnals to participate in the quarterly undie run, which took place at midnight on March 18. Hundreds of scantily clad stressballs ran past CLICS Library, where a few overexcited participants smashed a window on the second ﬂoor.Defense attorney says university will contest ‘guilty’ ruling two years after losing similar case.
SeeBILLpage 7*(70;63/033
TIM WONG /GUARDIANlegislation banning hate 
speech on public college campuses in California. 
First proposed by 
UCSA President Victor Sanchez early this month, the legislation is a col-
laborative effort between 
the two groups. Sanchez brought the idea before UC officials during a series of meetings between UCSA 
and the UC Office of the President to discuss poten-tial ways of improving the 
PHILIP  RHIE//GUARDIANDisputes over how to use the SRC keeps both students and staff in limbo.
69+,9:-69>(2,505.
+VJ[VY»Z6YKLYZ!
THEY’RE WORTH GETTING USED TO. PAGE 6
THURSDAY , JANUARY 21, 2010WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
VOLUME XLII, ISSUE XXVI
By Hayley Bisceglia-Martin 
News Editor
The earthquake that hit the 
Haitian capital of Port-au-Prince 
on Jan. 12 — claiming an estimated 200,000 lives, according to the Pan American Health Organization — also took the life of 24-year-old UCSD gradu-ate and Arizona native Daniel Ryan Kloos.
Ryan, who 
went by his mid-dle name, was in Haiti visiting his 
sister Erin Kloos, age 27. She was one of four Americans volunteering at Friends of the Orphans, a subset of the children’s charity Nuestros Pequeños Hermanos.
At the time of his death, Ryan was 
at the Father W asson Center, a chil-dren’s hospital where his sister worked. When the 7.0 magnitude earthquake hit, five of the hospital’s seven sto-ries collapsed, killing both Ryan and another volunteer, Molly Hightower, age 22.  
Ryan graduated from Muir 
College in 2008 with a double major in Sociology and Biochemistry/ General Biology, and had just been accepted to two schools of osteopath-ic medicine, according to close friend and classmate Liz Costa.
“Once he had been accepted to 
one of the programs, he quit his job By Kashi Khorasani
Staff Writer
On Jan. 11, the California State 
Assembly Committee passed a bill aimed at allocating more funds to higher education with five affirma-tive votes and two negative votes. Bill AB 656, authored by Assemblyman Alberto Torrico (D–Fremont), will impose an excise tax on oil com-panies that extract oil and natural gas from the state’s land and water sources.
If passed by the California State 
Legislature, the bill would create the California Higher Education Endowment Corporation. The cor-poration would be run by represen- tatives from the California State University system, the University of California and community col-leges and would be responsible for allocating the money each year.
Earlier this 
month, the bill was amended to incur a 12.5-per-cent severance tax, as opposed to 
the previously proposed 9.9-percent tax. According to an analysis by the Assembly Committee on Revenue and Taxation, the tax will now be expected to raise $1.8 billion in 2010 and $2 billion in 2011. 
Prior to recent amendments, 
the bill would have sent 60 per-cent of revenue to the CSU sys-tem, 30 percent to the UC system and just 10 percent to community colleges. After the urging of the 
Faculty Association of California Community Colleges, however, the bill was rewritten and now directs 50 percent of its revenue to the CSU 
system, 25 percent to the UC sys-tem and 25 percent to community colleges.
“We have allowed oil companies 
in California to extract oil from our ground and we have failed to charge 
Daniel Ryan Kloos
UCSD Alumnus
After the grand opening of the 
Sustainability Resource Center last November, members of the Student Sustainability Collective and Campus 
Sustainability administrators have not yet come to an agreement over how to share the space.
According to SSC student director Rishi 
Ghosh, the center was conceived two years ago when students approached university adminis-trators with hopes to begin the project. When student activity fees were raised last Spring Quarter — providing the SSC with an addi-tional $2.34 per-student per-quarter for proj-ects and staff — SSC members were under the impression their new efforts would be housed by the collaborative space.
Since then, however, university staff and 
student leaders have disagreed on the role of students in the center — leaving the SSC with-out the opportunity to utilize the SRC on a 
consistent basis.“The spirit of the referendum, the way we 
advertised it, was that the funding was for students working right in the new SRC, ” A.S. President Utsav Gupta said. “That was the con-text in which we had all these discussions with the administration — until it totally flipped. It was a bait-and-switch. ”
According to the SRC’s Web 
site, its original intention was 
to “house UCSD’s sustainability staff and the student-funded and -run SSC. ”
As no form has yet been signed indicating 
an understanding of the two groups’ control of 
the center, however, only the CSS currently has full access the space.
In the months following the student-fee 
referendum, plans for the center were arranged verbally between students and staff. University 
UCSD graduate Daniel 
Ryan Kloos was killed while volunteering for a children’s hospital.)4=56=;
,1-;16
9=)3-:<:;(05()030;@9,:6<9*,*,5;,9
);+W]VKQT8TIKM[4WN\WV;XZQVO9]IZ\MZ.MM*ITTW\
By Angela Chen
News Editor
After more than six hours of debate, the A.S. 
Council voted 20-7-1 late Wednesday night to 
place the Loft referendum on the Spring Quarter election ballot. If approved by the student body, the proposal would raise student fees by $3.82 per 
student per quarter. The money would go toward art and music programming at the Loft.
The referendum requires that at least 29 per-
cent of the fees go to financial aid, that at least 80 percent of all events at the Loft be “pay as you can” for UCSD students and that undergraduates rep-resent at least 60 percent of the venue’s hiring staff. During yesterday’s meeting, the council dis-
cussed two models of the referendum — one sponsored by A.S. Associate Vice President of Academic Affairs and chair of the University Centers Advisory Board Jordan Taylor, and one sponsored by A.S. President Utsav Gupta. 
The primary difference between the two 
proposals was the intensity of A.S. Council oversight. 
Under Gupta’s proposal, the A.S. Council 
would create a student-majority Loft Governance B o a r d  t o  r e g u l a t e  t h e  v e n u e ’ s  b u d g e t  a l l o c a t i o n .   This board would include various members of Oil Tax 
May Fund 
Higher Education*()<+.,;*90:0:
The UC, CSU and community-collegesystems stand to split $1.8 billion in revenue.
:762,5
We just do it. We’ve really conditioned ourselves from years 
of playing; we can do it anywhere." 
                                                   JOHN FAMIGLIETTIHEALTH
PAGE 6 “:<9-9,769;
-69,*(:;
THURSDAY
H 59 L 49FRIDAY
H 55 L 45
SATURDAY
H 58 L 42SUNDAY
H 63 L 4205:0+,
*VTPJZ
5L^)\ZPULZZ
:\YM9LWVY[
3L[[LY[V[OL,KP[VY
*VUJLY[7YL]PL^
*SHZZPMPLKZ
:\KVR\50./;>(;*/.(:7,9.(3365
THURSDAY
Height:  2-5 ft.
Wind: 8-19 mph
Water Temp: 59 FFRIDAY
Height:  2-5 ft.
Wind: 9-13 mph
Water Temp: 59 F
SATURDAY
Height:  2-5 ft.
Wind: 8-12 mph 
Water Temp: 59 FSUNDAY
Height:  3-6 ft.
Wind: 1-5 mph 
Water Temp: 59 FLOW
$2.75
Qwik Korner, National City
3009 Highland Ave 91950
HIGH
$3.49
Kwik Stop, El Cajon
2410 Fletcher Pkwy & Garﬁeld Ave
12.5%
$3.8  BILL.
$950  MILL.PROPOSED 
SEVERANCE TAXTAX TALK
TOTAL RAISED 
BY 2011
TO UC SYSTEM
See LOFTpage 3See SRCpage 3
See OILpage 3SeeKLOOSpage 9OPINION
Next time, get 
their word in writing.AND WHITE RUSSIANS 
WITH THE DUDE. PAGE 6
LOCKED OUT
By Ayelet Bitton t Associate News EditorThough they were promised space, students lack access to the SRC.
KEVIN WU/GUARDIAN
If passed by the student body, the Loft referendum guarantees that at least 
80 percent of Loft events will be “pay as you can” for UCSD students. PHOTO ILLUSTRATION BY PHILIP RHIE & EMILY KU/GUARDIAN
THURSDAY
SATURDAYFRIDAY
SUNDAYTHURSDAY , JUNE 3, 2010WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
VOLUME XLII, ISSUE LX
:762,5 :762,5:<9-9,769;
50./;>(;*/
THURSDAY
Height:  5-6 feet
Wind: 2-6 mph
Water Temp: 66 FFRIDAY
Height:  5-6 feet
Wind: 1-8 mph
Water Temp: 66 F
SATURDAY
Height:  6-7 feet
Wind: 2-9 mph 
Water Temp: 66 FSUNDAY
Height:  6-7 feet
Wind: 2-7 mph 
Water Temp: 66 FLOW
$2.79
ARCO, Poway
12805 Poway Rd & Carriage Rd
HIGH
$3.86
76, Point Loma
1704 Rosecrans St. & Nimitz Blvd.THURSDAY FRIDAY
THURSDAY
H 70 L 60FRIDAY
H 72 L 62THURSDAY FRIDAY.(:7,9.(3365
50./;>(;*/
-69,*(:;
>,)7633:<590:,
:<5:,;5:41 A.M.
7:53 P.M.
SATURDAY
H 74 L 63SUNDAY
H 73 L 62SUNDAYSATURDAY
WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
THIS WAY OUT 
SENIOR SENDOFFSPAGE 10
05:0+,
:<9-9,769;*VTPJZ
5L^)\ZPULZZ;OL@LHYPU8\V[LZ:\TTLY4V]PL7YL]PL^:LUPVY:LUKVMMZ*SHZZPÄLKZ:\KVR\
√  Yes
√  No
√  I don’t knowSHOULD THE A.S. 
COUNCIL HAVE CLOSED THE GROVE CAFE?THE END
By Regina Ip
Associate News Editor
A week after A.S. Council first 
met to appoint the 2010-11 associ-
ate vice presidents, one of the three remaining positions is still unfilled — leaving the council to enter next year without a full cabinet of 10 AVPs in 
charge of managing various aspects of student life. 
On May 26, the council voted 
against appointing A.S. President W afa Ben Hassine’ s nominations for three A VP positions. The nominations of former Campuswide Senator Desiree Prevo for the A VP of Academic Affairs position, and former A VP of Local Affairs Aries Y umul for the A VP of College Affairs position were voted down, while the nomination of Eleanor Roosevelt College sophomore Arohi Sharma for the A VP of Student 
Advocacy position was tabled. 
On June 3, the council approved 
Prevo and Sharma to temporarily fill the Academic Affairs and Student Advocacy positions, respectively. They will carry out the AVP posi-tions until Week Four of Fall Quarter at which point applications for the position will reopen. 
The position of AVP of College 
Affairs was not discussed and will not be filled until Fall Quarter. 
According to Ben Hassine, all 
three positions were tabled at the Campus Affairs committee meeting, which is held prior to the council meeting. From that, the Academic Affairs and Student Advocacy posi-tions were pulled out of committee to be discussed at the meeting. 
Ben Hassine said the positions 
were tabled — and then voted down —  because councilmembers dis-agreed with the process of choosing members for the selection commit-tee. The selection committee consists of the president, the outgoing AVP and three to four council senators.
See AVP,page 7In less than two hours last night, the A.S. Council voted 17-2 to shut down the Grove Cafe, effectively ending a 24-year saga that 
included numerous attempts to revitalize the struggling eatery. 
The decision comes a year after the previous council voted last June 
to continue operating the coffee shop, which was $140,000 in debt at 
the time. However, despite ongoing renovations and a much-hyped reopening this Winter Quarter, the business has increased its debt over $35,000, to a total of nearly $180,000. 
According to both Vice President of Finance and Resources 
Andrew Ang and Associate Vice President of Enterprise Operations Brian McEuen, the Grove would need to make a daily profit of $925 to cover its operating costs alone. However, since reopening in January, By Connie Qian
Senior Staff Writer
Over 11,000 nurses from five 
UC medical centers — including the UCSD medical centers — will strike on June 10 to protest unsafe nurse-to-patient ratios, the National Nurses United announced last Friday.
“One of the things we’ve been ask-
ing is that the [nurse-to-patient] ratio should be maintained at all times, ” UCSD Medical Center - Hillcrest reg-istered nurse Janice Webb said. “We’re asking for break-relief nurses. That’s a nurse that comes in and watches your patient while you’re on break. ”
The protest, slated to be the largest 
nurse strike in U.S. history, will also include an additional 14,000 nurs-es from California and Minnesota, totaling 25,000 participants.
California law requires hospitals 
to maintain at least one nurse for every three to five patients, depend-ing on the care the patients receive. The union said it wants to mandate stronger enforcement of these laws 
and establish safe ratios at all times. 
According to Webb, the medical 
centers do not have enough nurses to attend the patients.
 “We’ve been having meetings 
with hospitals that say they already have charge nurses, but realistical-ly they can’t maintain the ratio on breaks, ” she said. “ A lot of times when the charge nurses [or nurses who supervise] watch, there are still more nurses needed — just someone to help out. ”
However, in an online statement, 
the UC Office of the President con-tended that such a strike is without legitimate cause.
“The university considers this 
action unlawful, a violation of good-faith bargaining requirements and a clear violation of the parties’ con-tract, ” UCOP said in their statement.
The strike will also attempt to 
secure the nurses’ retirement benefits to make sure neither politicians nor the health industry can easily rescind them.
“The other thing we’re concerned 
about is the pension and our health benefits, ” Webb said. “Things are get-ting expensive now, and they’re trying to look at ways to cut costs. That’s going to affect people, and we want After 24 years on campus, the ailing Grove Cafe 
will close its doors for good. By Ayelet Bitton
See GROVE,page 7Nurses 
Plan to  Strike
See NURSES, page 3After medical 
administrators reject proposed staff increases, union prepares to react with protest.
JOHN  HANACEK/GUARDIAN
:(=05.;/,.96=,:;<+,5;*6<5*03*<;:36::,::/<;:+6>5,(;,9@
FROM FML
TO FLOWERS
A crowd of students gave  ﬂowers to Mary,  an employee at the Burger King in  Price Center East, yesterday. The event beganbecause of a post on UCSDFML.com  that broughtattention to Mary’s work.);+W]VKQT0QZM[<MUX-UXTWaMM[
GROVE CAFE’S TOTAL DEBT 
DAILY PROFIT GROVE NEEDS TO BREAK EVEN
NUMBER OF DAYS, SINCE REOPENING, GROVE EARNED $925
AVERAGE PROFIT GROVE MAKES DAILY$177,920.78
$925
2
$525BY THE NUMBERS
PHOTOS BY ANDREW OH/GUARDIANTHURSDAY , APRIL 4, 2011 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG VOLUME XLIII, ISSUE XLIII
SPOKEN SPOKEN SURF REPORT NIGHT WATCH
MONDAY
Height:  4 ft.
Wind: 3-7 mph
Water Temp: 64 FTUESDAY
Height:  4 ft.
Wind: 5-7 mph
Water Temp: 64 F
WEDNESDAY
Height:  4 ft.
Wind: 2-7 mph 
Water Temp: 64 FTHURSDAY
Height:  4-7 ft.
Wind: 3-6 mph 
Water Temp: 64 FLOW
$3.89
Costco, Chula Vista
895 East H S.t near Tierra Del Rey
HIGH
$4.69
76, Point Loma
1704 Rosecrans St. & Nimitz Blvd.THURSDAY FRIDAYMONDAY
H 72 L 56TUESDAY
H 68 L 56 MONDAY TUESDAYGAS PER GALLON SURF REPORT NIGHT WATCH FORECAST WEB POLL
ARE YOU PLEASED WITH THE SUN GOD LINEUP?
√  Yes
√  No
√  I don’t knowSUNRISE
SUNSET6:33  A.M.
7:11  P .M.WEDNESDAY
H 64 L 54THURSDAY
H 61 L 51 THURSDAY WEDNESDAY WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGComics ..................................2
Lights and Sirens ...................3
Endorsement Issue ................4
Candidate Profiles .................8
Classifieds ...........................12
Sudoku ................................12
Sports ..................................16By Jonathan Kaslow
S/t.sc/a.sc/f.sc/f.sc W/r.sc/i.sc/t.sc/e.sc/r.sc 
Students from 50 states and 90 countries congregated on 
campus for the Clinton Global Initiative University this week-
end, held April 1 to 3. /T_he conference is devoted to developing and implementing projects (called “commitments”) to global issues, such as poverty, pollution, LGBT rights and college af-fordability.  
About 1,200 students entered the conference with individ-
ual commitments, 200 of which were from UCSD.  Students were required to apply to be participate.
/T_he Clinton Global Initiative is part of the Clinton Foun-
dation, founded by former U.S. president Bill Clinton in 2005.  Now hosting its fourth conference, the CGIU has been to uni-versities in New Orleans, Texas and Miami.  
Clinton was on hand for the weekend’s event, and other 
guests included Qualcomm CEO Paul Jacobs, actor Sean Penn and singer Mandy Moore.  Jacobs participated in the opening session, while Moore spoke at the /f_irst workshop on global health and Penn appeared at the closing session. Students were also able to attend a variety of panels and workshops to prepare them to ful/f_ill their commitment to face issues such as popula-tion growth, the environment and global health.
“Y ou believe you can make a diﬀerence, and we’re going 
to help you, ” Clinton said at the April 1 opening session. “/T_he most important question is ‘how do you propose to do it [com-mitment]’ and college students are more prone for that ques-tion. ”
CGI U Campus Representative Melissa Etehad, who at-
tended CGI U in Miami last year, expressed her excitement over the event’s international scope.
“It’s an international event for UCSD, and imagine 200 stu-
dents changing the world, ” Etehad said. “I am so excited for the 3,700 ATTEND CLINTON OPENING SESSION
See CLINTON, page 7By Regina Ip
N/e.sc/w.sc/s.sc E/d.sc/i.sc/t.sc/o.sc/r.sc
Carlsbad resident Julio Angel Garcia-Puente, 50, 
will go to trial for murder and arson charges following a hearing held March 30. He is suspected of killing his estranged wife — 38-year-old Lorena Gonzalez, whose body was found in a burning vehicle in the P701 parking lot next to the UCSD baseball field.
At the preliminary hearing to determine if probable 
cause exists to indict Garcia-Puente, San Diego 
Superior Court Judge Jeffrey Fraser concluded that the prosecutors provided sufficient evidence for the case to stand trial, the San Diego 
Union-Tribun e reported on March 
30.
San Diego firefighters testified 
that they arrived in the parking lot 
at approximately 8:30 p.m., when they 
found the vehicle in flames. According to the Union-
Tribune , firefighter Justin Price said that when he 
opened one of the car doors, he saw a head and an arm. Investigators determined that the vehicle was intentionally set on fire.
According to the Union-Tribune , deputy district 
attorney Nicole Rooney testified that Gonzalez died of strangulation, as three bones in her neck were Murder Suspect in 
Burning Vehicle Case Will Face Trial
PHOTO  BY ANDREW  OH/GUARDIANAfter five months of planning, A.S. Concerts and Events 
Media Liaison Oliver Zhang sat down with the Guardian Sunday afternoon to leak the lineup for the annual Sun 
God Festival.
“For me, it’s the best lineup we’ve ever had, ” Zhang said of the 
May 13 festival. 
Rapper Wiz Khalifa will be headlining the main stage, while 
Jesse F. Keeler (JFK) of electronic music duo MSTRKRFT will be the main act at the dance tent. 
Best Coast, Mike Posner, Jimmy Eat World and Crystal Castles 
will also play the main stage. The support for the dance tent — as well as one more act for the main stage — will be revealed once the artist contracts are completed.
“Not all contracts are fully executed, ” Zhang said. “When we 
release something we want to make sure that the contracts are fully valid, just in case they back out at the last minute. ”
Associate Vice President of Concerts and Events Brian Wong 
said he is proud of the lineup.
“We knew coming into this year that it would be hard to top 
the success of 2010, ” he said in an email. “To make this year’s BY ARIELLE SALLAI 
SENIOR STAFF WRITER
See SUN GOD, page 7WIZ KHALIFA TO HEADLINE SUN GOD 
THURSDAY , APRIL 4, 2011
 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
 VOLUME XLIII, ISSUE XLIII
Julio Angel 
Garcia-Puente
See MURDER, page 3
PHOTO  BY JOHN  HANACEK /GUARDIANMAIN STAGE
WIZ KHALIFA
CRYSTAL CASTLES
JIMMY EAT WORLD
MIKE POSNER
BEST COASTDANCE TENT
JFK OF MSTRKRFT
ADDITIONAL PENDING 
ANNOUNCEMENTTHE RACE IS ON.  THE EDITORIAL BOARD MAKES ITS PICKS FOR NEXT YEAR’S A.S. COUNCIL. PAGE 4.
iNSIDE
:762,5 :762,5
:<9-9,769;
05:0+,50./;>(;*/
MONDAY
Height:  4 feet
Wind: 2-6 mph
Water Temp: 66 FTUESDAY
Height:  3-4 feet
Wind: 3-5 mph
Water Temp: 66 F
WEDNESDAY
Height:  3-4 feet
Wind: 3-7 mph 
Water Temp: 66 FTHURSDAY
Height:  5-6 feet
Wind: 4-8 mph 
Water Temp: 66 FLOW
$2.89
On the Go Gas, El Cajon
500 N 2nd St. and E. Madison Ave.
HIGH
$3.62
Chevron, Paciﬁc Beach
1565 Garnet Ave. and Ingraham St.THURSDAY FRIDAYMONDAY
H 66 L 46TUESDAY
H 68 L 50
MONDAY TUESDAY.(:7,9.(3365:<9-9,769;50./;>(;*/-69,*(:;
>,)7633
DID YOU ENJOY DRAKE’S 
PERFORMANCE AT THE SUN GOD FESTIVAL?
√  Yes
√  No
√  I don’t know:<590:,
:<5:,;5:47  A.M.
7:43  P.M.
WEDNESDAY
H 62 L 48THURSDAY
H 69 L 50
THURSDAYWEDNESDAYWWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG*VTPJZ
:\U.VK7OV[VZ)LOPUK;OL*V\U[LY3L[[LYZ[V[OL,KP[VY*S\I/VWWPUN *SHZZPÄLKZ:\KVR\
By Jake Boissonault 
Contributing Writer
“Fiercely independent” student 
radio station KSDT has given up on plans to obtain an FM frequency. Station managers are now looking to build a radio tower to pursue an AM frequency instead.
KSDT station co-manager 
Meredith Wong said that the AM tower would cost approximately $100,000 and that she hoped it could be located in a central area of campus — although she was unsure where that would be. 
“We’re really serious about it, 
but we haven’t started much of the research, ” Wong said. 5,>>(=,
See TOWERpage 12
/W^:MTMI[M[;\I\M*]LOM\*()<+.,;*90:0:
By Regina Ip
Associate News Editor
Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger 
presented his revised 2010-11 state budget last week, a plan that includes a new round of fund-ing increases for public colleges, but that suggests cutting $3.7 bil-lion from health-care services that impact low-income families who depend on state welfare programs. 
The suggested allocations to 
the University of California are nearly identical to the ones from Schwarzenegger’s January propos-al, including the restoration of the $305 million cut last year and an additional $51.3 million in finan-cial aid toward the 5,121 eligible students in the system who are not currently being funded. However, the governor’s newest budget would negate his January proposal 
to cut $111.8 million set aside to a c c o m m o d a t e  g r o w i n g  e n r o l l m e n t   
in the UC and CSU systems. 
In order to absorb California’s 
$19.1 billion budget deficit, other services would suffer major cuts — including a proposed $3.7 billion from in health care, that would cut the Medi-Cal program for the poor, along with state in-home support for the disabled. In addi-tion, the budget takes into account Proposition 98 — which passed in 1988 and guarantees a minimum pool of money for schools. Under 
See FUNDINGpage 7
555555555555555,,,,,,,,,55555,,555555,,55,,,55555555,,,,,,555555555,,,555555,55555555555555555555,,5555555,,55,,,5555,,555555555,,55,5555,,,,5555,5,,,,,,,,5555,,,,,5555,,,,,,,,,,555,,,,,,,,,55,,,,,,5555,,,,,,,555,,,,,,55,,5555,,,,,,,>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>(>(>(>(>(>(>(>(>(>(>(>((((((((((>(>>((>(>((>((((((((((>(((>>(((========,=,=,=,=,=,=,=,==,======,=,=,=====,,========,==,===,=,=,=,=,=======,=,,=========,=====,====,=,=,==,=,==,=,,==,=,,,,=,=,==,=,,=,,=====,,,,,,==,,=,,,,,==,,,,,,,=,=,,,MONDAY , MAY 17, 2010
WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
This year’ s Sun God Festival — with acts like B.o.B, Relient K, Michelle Branch and headliner Drake — attracted a packed house on May 14. For the second time in Sun God history, all 16,500 student wristbands and 3,500 guest tickets sold out.      In 2008, the first time this happened, tickets 
didn’t sell out until the day before. This year, all tickets sold out by 2:30 p.m. on Friday, at which time students were turned away.
According to Associate Vice President of 
Concerts and Events Alex Bramwell — who organized this year’ s Sun God Festival — the sell-out was due to the popularity of the event’ s leading acts.
“W e get complaints and yelled at when stu-
dents can’t bring their guests, but at the same time, we get yelled at and complaints when the students can’t bring themselves — so finding 
a good balance between those two is tough, ” Bramwell said. “W e had the same numbers as last year. It just turned out this year to be more popular of an event; more students wanted to come. ”
At the 2008 Sun God Festival — when 
students wristbands were distributed for the 
entire week leading up to the event — tickets ran out on Thursday, leading students to pur-chase all the leftover guest tickets for them-selves that Friday. 
In 2009, students waited in line for up to 
four hours on the morning of the festival to receive their wristbands. Despite the crowds, however, over 1,000 of last year’ s wristbands went unclaimed. 
See SUN GODpage 3Sun God Hits Capacity
Students turned away from annual festival on RIMAC Field
for second time in its 27-year history. 
By Hayley Bisceglia-Martin
),:;+(@6-;/,@,(9

ERIK JEPSEN /GUARDIAN65(9633
ERIK JEPSEN /GUARDIANERIK JEPSEN /GUARDIAN
WRISTBANDS
GUEST TICKETS2010
SOLD OUT
7,500 EXTRA2009 2008 2007
1,000 EXTRA
SOLD OUTSOLD OUT SOLD OUT SOLD OUT*
SOLD OUT*[\]LMV\[NWZKML\WJ]a\PMZMUIQVQVOO]M[\\QKSM\[IN\MZ_ZQ[\JIVL[[WTLW]\3;,<:ILQW
8TIV[\W.QTM
NWZ3
)5<W_MZ
Station banks on A.S. 
Council approval forits latest attempt toget on the air. 
Makeshift carts raced in the seventh annual Junkyard Derby on the day of the Sun God Festival.The final budget proposal from the governor puts education and statewelfare at odds.VOLUME XLII, ISSUE LV
the 
guardian is hiring.
    APPLICATIONS ONLINE AT UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG/
JOBS.  
 
    QUESTIONS? EMAIL jobs@ucsdguardian.org
DON’T FORGET TO PICK UP A COPY OF THE GUARDIAN ON 
CAMPUS STANDS EVERY MONDAY AND THURSDAY!WRITING PHOTOGRAPHY LAYOUT DESIGN ADVERTISING
                COPY READING ART/ILLUSTRATION MARKETING GRAPHICS
read between the lines.The Master of Science in Computer Science
America excels at entrepreneurship and the University of San Francisco 
claims one of the top entrepreneurial business schools. USF offers the classic MSCS in computer science and software development, along with an emphasis in Entrepreneurship. The emphasis blends a classic Master’s Program in computer science with MBA courses, including Global Product Development and Entrepreneurial Management.
Other Arts and Sciences Master’s Programs:
Asia Pacific Studies ■ Biology ■ Biotechnology ■ Chemistry 
Economics ■ Environmental Management ■ International and 
Development Economics ■ International Studies ■ Public Affairs 
Sport Management ■ Web Science ■ Writing (MFA)
DeTAilS?  Call 415.422.5101 or email asgraduate@usfca.edu
APPliCATiOn/infOrMATiOn PACkeT?  
www.usfca.edu/grad/requestinfo
ViSiT TheSe PrOgrAMS AT:  www.usfca.edu/asgrad
change the world from herepursue yourMaster’s DegreeTHE UCSD GUARDIAN | MON DAY, OCTO B E R  17, 2011 | WWW.U CSDGUARDIAN . O R G 11
60,000 eyes & other good reasons.
Call 858-534-3467 to reserve your spot!
ucsdguardian.org
Why Advertise in
the Guardian?
Reserve
for next
quarter!Brunsting finished one kill short 
of a triple-double, with nine kills, 30 assists and 13 digs. She also recorded two aces and two blocks. Williamson finished with a dou-ble-double for the fifth con-secutive time with 13 kills and 16 digs. Condon also had a double-double with 11 kills and 17 digs. Senior middle Julia Freidenberg hit .375 with 10 kills and just one error in 24 attacks, while Werhane recorded a match-high of 28 digs. On the other end of the net, Cal Poly Pomona’s Taylr Kreutziger and Diana Lake had 11 kills apiece.  The Tritons have taken both games against Cal Poly Pomona this sea-son. With the win, UCSD improves to 13-4 overall and 9-4 in the CCAA, while Pomona fell to 9-9 overall and 6-8 in the conference. The Tritons return to UCSD to host Cal State Los Angeles and Cal State Dominguez Hills on Friday, Oct. 21 and Saturday, Oct. 22 at 7 p.m.
Readers can contact Stephanie Monroy 
at smonroy@ucsd.eduand pains, the strained breathing, the tendinitis and twisted ankles — is rec-onciled for some by the sheer enjoy-ment of the endeavor, and for others by the gratification of accomplishment. /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0  This year’s women’s cross country squad saw an overhaul in personnel, with head coach Ronald Garcia bring-ing in a number of new runners. But Kobayashi says the youth has brought with it a renewed competition within the squad, keeping the senior run-ners on their toes as the newcom-ers push to claim spots of their own. /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0  Within the squad, an odd balance between competitiveness and cama-raderie needs to be struck. With only 10 runners allowed to travel with the team, and nearly twice that amount on the roster, runners are always look-ing to beat the guy in front of them. Lenahan and Kobayashi agree that it’s enjoyable to run with the pack, but that at the end of the day, every-one’s accountable for themselves. /uni00A0/uni00A0/uni00A0 Probably because of the intensity of 
the event, cross country run-ners, more than any other set of collegiate ath-letes, are argu-ably the most rigid about taking care of their bodies. In soccer, basket-ball, water polo or golf, a bad performance 
can be written off by the difficulty of the course, bad weather, poor referee-ing, etc. But in cross country, there’s no getting around the numbers. Y ou either ran well, or you didn’t — and in either case, the fault lies with the runner alone. /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0  Once a year, the runners con-sult with a staff nutritionist, mak-ing sure that they get enough calo-ries in to maintain their weight. /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0  And unlike other sports, because a lot of UCSD’s cross country ath-letes run for track as well, there is no off season. The push to improve is a year-round struggle. /uni00A0/uni00A0/uni00A0 I ended a brief phone interview with Lenehan by asking the two time letter winner what kinds of goals the team has at the end of the season for themselves. /uni00A0/uni00A0/uni00A0 His answers had been brief through-out, but Lenehan curtly replied, “The goal is always to win the race, ” after which I thought I had been dismissed as ignorant and that the conversation was over. He went on to add that the team is also always looking to qualify for nationals and improve individu-ally, but his first statement sums it up. /uni00A0/uni00A0/uni00A0 At the end of the day, cross country is a bottom line, and everyone’s just racing to the top.
at 7-6.
Starting the fourth quarter down 
by one, the Tritons slipped early and the Gauchos got a goal within the first two minutes. UCSD fought back halfway through the quarter, pulling to within one again after sophomore Josh Stiling put away a cross-pool pass from William Brown. 
But the Gauchos widened the 
gap, scoring another goal with 1:53 remaining.
Still down by two, senior Graham 
Saber scored coming out of a time-out with thirty seconds left to play, bringing the score to 9-8. 
Despite the support of a large 
UCSD crowd, the Gauchos were able to maintain possession for the last thirty seconds and landed another goal to take the 10-8 victory.
 The 
Tritons have dropped three straight matches since the SoCal Tournament two weeks ago. 
UCSD will look to beat the 
slump on Friday against rival Loyola Marymount on Friday, Oct. 21. The Tritons have split games against Loyola Maryount so far this season and have outscored them by two goals. 
Readers can contact Tyler Nelson at 
tcnelson@ucsd.edu.Tritons Drop Three GamesThird Straight Win for UCSDNOLAN  THOMAS /GUARDIANUCSD Cross Country Pushes to Improve
/uni25B6 W. VOLLEYBALL, fromÊpageÊ12
/uni25B6 M. WATER POLO, fromÊpageÊ12/uni25B6 UDA, fromÊpageÊ12
“The goal is 
always to win the race.”
MATT LENEHAN
JUNIOR, CROSS 
COUNTRY Triton Volleyball Serves 
Up Three    StraightMEN’S GOLF
MEN ’S WATERPOLO
MEN ’S/WOMEN’S SOCCER10/17
10/1810/2110/2210/21AT Lindsay Olive Wildcat Classic
AT Loyola Marymount
VS OccidentalVS Humboldt State UPCOMING
UCSD
GAMES SPORTSRACHEL UDA
sports @ucsdguardian.orgCON TACT THE EDIT OR12 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MON DAY, OCTO B E R  17, 2011 | WWW.U CSDGUARDIAN . O R G
Triton Volleyball Serves 
Up Three 
Triton Volleyball Serves 
Up Three 
Triton Volleyball Serves 
  
 S
Triton Volleyball Serves 
S
Triton Volleyball Serves 
traight
Triton Volleyball Serves 
traight
Triton Volleyball Serves 
By Stephanie Monroy
Contributing Writer
The women’s volleyball team is 
now on a three-game winning streak after beating San Francisco State and Cal Poly Pomona this past weekend on their Northern California road trip. Coming off of a three-game slump, the No. 18 Tritons rebounded beautifully last Friday against middle-of-the-pack squad San Francisco State. 
Senior outside hitter Hillary 
Williamson played arguably one of the best games of her career, setting career records for her 24 kills, as well as a career best for 17 digs and two blocks to total 25 points against the Gators. 
Senior outside hitter Roxanne 
Brunsting also recorded a career best of 37 assists to lead the team to a deserved 3-2 win over San Francisco.
UCSD’s senior outside hitter Katie 
Condon finished with eight kills in the campaign, along with freshman and junior middle blockers, Lauren Demos and Julia Freidenberg.
 Condon pulled off three critical 
service aces and had 17 digs, while senior libero Janessa Werhane totaled an outstanding 27 digs.
Sara Kurfess led all players with 30 
digs.
In the final set, UCSD went ahead 
10-6, but then found itself 12-11 when SFSU scored six of the next seven points. A kill by Williamson, in combi-nation with an SFSU error and a kill by Condon, sealed the set for the Tritons, as well as the match.
“It was a very intense match, ” UCSD 
head coach Ricci Luyties said. “It was another great example of how we can beat good teams on the road. We played a tough match and had to overcome things like a vocal crowd to come out o n  t o p.”
With the win, the team improved to 
12-4 overall and 8-4 in the California Collegiate Athletic Association, while San Francisco State fell to 10-8 overall and 6-7 in the CCAA.
“We battled hard and it was a nice 
win for us, ” Luyties said. “We showed several times that we can be resilient and come back when we’re down. To do that on the road is a real confidence boost. ”
The Tritons carried the momentum 
from their last match into a 3-1 vic-tory Saturday against Cal Poly Pomona. UCSD came out strong, taking con-trol of the first two sets with scores of 25-19 and 25-17. But the Broncos came back to take the third set, 25-16, when the Tritons recorded their lowest attack percentage of the match at .024. The Tritons closed out with a 25-20 win in the fourth set. AfterÊaÊthree-gameÊslump,ÊUCSDÊ
reboundedÊthisÊweekend,ÊputtingÊtogetherÊaÊthree-gameÊwinÊstreak
.
BRIAN YIP/GUARDIAN
 FILE
By Tyler Nelson
Senior Staff Writer
It’s been a rough week for the UCSD men’s 
water polo team. After taking ninth place last week in the Long Beach SoCal tournament, defeating long time rival, Loyola Marymount University and soaring to a No. 9 overall national ranking, the Tritons have since lost some very close games to good opponents. 
Despite staying close to home, with a 
home game and a road trip to Long Beach, the men’s team dropped two straight games to No. 12 Cal State Long Beach and No. 5 UCSB. The Tritons have lost three consecutive games since attaining their ninth place rank — their highest ranking of the season.
On the road Wednesday at Cal State Long 
Beach, the Tritons and 49ers went back and forth through the entire game, with neither team taking a lead larger than two for more than a minute. 
The 49ers jumped ahead early, taking a 
quick three-point lead in the first quarter, but the Tritons — led by junior utility Brain Donohoe’s two goals — fought back, nar-rowing the difference before much time had passed. 
By the end of the first eight minutes, the 
two teams had scored nine goals collectively. But after the first quarter, the offense dried up. Both teams scored a goal each in the next two quarters, but neither team could capital-ize on the five ejections. 
Locked in a one-point game, the two 
teams fought for the advantage in the fourth period.
The Triton defense continued to shut 
down the 49er attack, while the offense for UCSD found the back of the net twice in the first four minutes. 
It seemed like UCSD was going to sneak 
away with another comeback victory, but with less than 10 seconds left, the 49ers scored to 
tie the game and sent it into overtime.
/uni00A0/uni00A0/uni00A0 Cal State Long Beach scored a minute 
into the extra period and despite an offensive push to the goal, the Tritons were not able to find the net. 
The loss counts as the Tritons’ first defeat 
in the Mountain Pacific Sports Federation match for the season.
On Saturday, the Tritons looked to upset, 
as they hosted No. 5 UCSB. 
Despite the narrow defeat in Long Beach 
earlier in the week, the Tritons came out strong and with less than three minutes to play, were one goal away from the home upset. They were unable to pull it together in the end. 
The Gauchos took a 2-1 lead in the first 
quarter and extended that lead in the second quarter, 4-2. 
The Tritons fought their way back to pull 
within one by the end of the third quarter. A huge penalty save from senior David Morton helped to keep the game close, with the score 
See M. WATER POLO,Ê page 11
To me, running is an activity akin to eating vegetables or getting your wisdom teeth pulled. Most people 
don’t enjoy it, but they do it to stay healthy. /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0  UCSD’s cross country team is made up 
of the exceptions: those few that actual-
ly enjoy going on a 10 mile morning run. /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0  Six out of the seven days a week — the NCAA regulation maximum amount of days a team is allowed to practice — the 16 men and 20 women on the roster usu-ally start their day well before 8 a.m.  /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0  Practices begin at 7:20 a.m. on weekdays and 8 a.m. on weekends. The shortest runs, says junior captain Matt Lenehan, will usu-ally be around five miles, but will only take the men around 35 minutes. Runners look to maintain their stamina, going on longer runs with the pack, and once or twice a week, will look to push themselves to work on their speed.  /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0  Most of the time, outside of the different routes and the changes in scenery, practices are monotonous, and for most people, painfully so.  /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0  But senior captain Aaryn Kobayashi says that the amount of “physical punishment” the runners endure on a daily basis — the aches AÊDayÊinÊtheÊ
Life:ÊUCSDÊ
CrossÊCountry
See UDA,Ê page 11CrossÊCountry:ÊArguablyÊtheÊ
campusÕÊhardestÊworkingÊandÊleastÊappreciatedÊathletes.
Queen of   
ruda@ucsd.eduKings
RACHEL UDA
WATER POLO
1     2      3     4    Total
1        1         4        2           8
2         2    3        3         10 UCSB (NO.5)UCSD  (NO. 9)Oct. 14, 2011
UCSB @ UCSDTritonsÊDropÊTheirÊThirdÊStraightÊGame
UCSDÊfellÊtoÊLoyolaÊMarymountÊinÊovertimeÊ8-9ÊandÊUCSBÊ8-10.NOLAN  THOMAS /GUARDIAN  FILE
After conceding a disappointing defeat to No. 12 Loyola Marymount, UCSD nearly pulled off the upset at home against No. 5 UCSB.See W. VOLLEYBALL,Ê page 11