SPOKEN SPOKEN SURFÊREPORT INSIDE NIGHTÊWATCH
THURSDAY
Height: 3 ft.
Wind: 3-6 mph
Water Temp:70 FFRIDAY
Height:  3-4 ft.
Wind: 3-7 mph
Water Temp: 70 F
SATURDAY
Height:  4 ft.
Wind: 2-6 mph 
Water Temp: 70 FSUNDAY
Height:  3-4 ft.
Wind: 3-5 mph 
Water Temp: 70FLOW
$3.67
76, El Cajon
898 Broadway & N. Mollison Ave.
HIGH
$4.39
Chevron, Paciﬁc Beach
1575 Garnet Ave & Ingraham St.THURSDAY FRIDAYTHURSDAY
H 76 L 62FRIDAY
H 74 L 63 THURSDAY FRIDAYGAS PRICES SURF REPORT NIGHT WATCH FORECAST WEB POLL
IS STUDENT ACTIVISM EFFECTIVE IN FIGHTING TUITION INCREASES?
√  Yes
√  NoSUNRISE
6:36  A.M.
6:58  P .M.SATURDAY
H 73 L 61SUNDAY
H 69 L 61 SUNDAY SATURDAY WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGComics ..................................... 2
Lights & Sirens ........................ 3Free for All ............................... 4Letter to the Editor ................ 5Leisure...................................... 6Hiatus ....................................... 8Sports ..................................... 16THURSDAY , SEPTEMBER 22, 2011 VOLUME LXXV., ISSUE I
T uition Increases by 10 Percent, May Rise Again Next Year
By Rebecca Horwitz
Associate News Editor The University of California Board of Regents 
has raised in-state tuition by 9.6 percent and 
an additional increase of 16 percent by the 2015-16 school year is now being discussed. University of California tuition could increase by as much as 16 percent by the next academic year. The UC Board of Regents met Sept. 15 at UC San Francisco to discuss methods of compensating for a projected system-wide budget deficit of $2.5 billion by 2015. Depending on the amount of state funding, students could be paying anywhere from an eight to 16 percent fee increase yearly.   According to Executive Vice President of Business Operations Nathan Brostrom and Vice President of Budget and Capital Resources Patrick Lenz, there are three proposed methods for raising revenue. The Regents favors a 50-50 split in which students would pay an eight percent fee increase, with the state funding the remaining eight percent. A second option has students paying 12 percent of the increase while the state pays four percent. The final scenario would require tuition to increase by 16 percent each year until 2016.     “This scenario that we’re looking at is not what we want, ” Sherry Lansing, UC Board of Regents Chairman, said in Bloomberg 
Businessweek . “There’s not a person around 
this table that wants to increase tuition. We’ve done enough. ” Under the last scenario, undergraduate tuition for California residents would rise to $22,068 from the current $12,192 by the 2015-16 academic year, if state funding for the UC system does not increase, according to the UC Board of Regents.   UC Office of the President Spokesperson Ricardo Vasquez said that the Regents has not made any concrete decisions.   “It’s not even a proposal yet, ” Vasquez said. “It’s just a discussion. The idea was to create 
University of California tuition 
may increase by as much as 16 percent by 2016. 
Student Dies 
Due to Heart Complications
By Margaret Y au
Managing Editor
Cristina Torres, a 
Warren College senior, died Sunday, Aug. 21 due to medical com-plications relating to a pre-existing heart con-dition. She was 23.   
“[Cristina] was a 
very lively person — she would brighten up the room, ” Torres’ sorority sister Kim Garcia said. 
 Literature profes-
sor Jorge Mariscal is hoping to create a scholarship in Torres’ name, to be given each year to a promising Latina undergraduate student. The scholarship is being planned. 
“[Cristina] was always inquisitive and eager 
to learn. I know that, given more time, she would have become a fierce defender of the Latino community, ” Mariscal said in an email.  
 Torres was pursuing a double major in 
Spanish literature and political science, with plans of attending law school. 
She was also the social chair and an active 
member of the Sigma Pi Alpha sorority. 
“She was the center of attention, the life of 
the party, ” Marisabel Salinas, Torres’ sorority sister, said.
 Salinas and a few of her fellow sisters plan 
on getting Torres’s college degree awarded to her posthumously.   
Torres’s family held a memorial service for 
her in Sun Valley on Aug. 25. Her family and sorority members also hope to have a memorial service on campus, but a date has not yet been determined.  
Torres is survived by her sisters Karina and 
Fabiola Torres, her mother Irma Torres and her father Gregorio Torres.
Readers can contact Margaret Yau at m1yau@
ucsd.edu.Professor to work toward 
establishing scholarship in her memory.See TUITION,Ê page 3
 Students Protest 
for Education in Chile   
S     tudent-led demonstrations to reform Chile’s 
national education system are drawing interna-tional media attention for mob violence and subse-
quent arrests: the BBC reported approximately 900 arrests that were made following a 60,000-strong Aug. 4 protest. Even with such staggering numbers, all 59 University of California Education Abroad Program students studying in Santiago have remained in the program and are actively attending class at this time, according to UCEAP commu-nications representative Emilia Doerr. Despite EAP admin-istration’s warning to avoid protests as a safety precaution, some EAP students have even chosen to participate in alongside local students.       Recent protests interfered with Muir College senior Megan Y oung’s studies at the public university, la Universidad de Chile. Y oung was required to transfer to the private university Pontificia Universidad Católica — also located in capital city Santiago — for her second semester abroad. Y oung, one of six UCSD students in Chile, describes her experience as witnessing history in the making.  Although Y oung resides in an apartment in central Santiago where the protests are largely concentrated, she said she has never felt unsafe. “The protests have never affected me in a negative way, nor have I ever felt like my life was at risk because of the protests, ” Y oung said. “I’ve gone to a few in June and one 
just this morning. ”  Chilean students are protesting the privatization of education in the form of marches, hunger strikes and  tomas , a Spanish 
term that refers to students occupying a university building so that the administration is unable to function as normal, Y oung said in an email. Tomas  are different from sit-ins 
in that they can last for indeterminate periods of time, sometimes lasting for months until the protesters’ demands are met.   The protests — which originated in May — started By Nicole Chan | Associate  News Editor
PHOTO  COURTESY  OF RENE GOLDFARB -ILYASHOVCAROLINA DREAMIN’ PAGE 12Exclusive Edition
Starting today, 
a new monthly magazine “The Red Bulliten” will be inserted into 2,000 editions of The Guardian 
every month.
MOLOKAI 
/ The toughest race on water NFL / Sebastian Janikowski is in a happy placeHOW & NOSM 
/ The art world’s twin talentsLet it snow
Download  our free iPad App 
now!
THe ArT OF FLIgHT   
Why we can’t wait for 
the best action sports 
movie of all time
Travis Rice / Gary Hunt / St. Vincent / Blood Orange / Daniel Dhers / Awolnation / Nirvana / Pete Rock / Trey Hardee
OCTOBER 2011A BEYOND THE ORDINARY MAGAZINE
00_1011Cover USA Suppl [P].indd   1
16.08.11   12:31THE GUARDIAN IS HIRING.  COME TO OUR RECRUITMENT MEETING. SEPT. 23, 5:30, OLD STUDENT CENTER.
WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
See PROTEST,Ê page 11
CRISTINA TORRES
SU
N
DAY
SUNSETPROTESTSUC BUDGET
PEOPLE
BIG PICTURE
See more 
pictures from Chile on PAGE 11.TheÊ UCSDÊ GuardianÊ isÊ publishedÊ MondaysÊ andÊ
ThursdaysÊduringÊtheÊacademicÊyearÊbyÊUCSD ÊstudentsÊ
andÊ forÊ theÊ UCSDÊ community.Ê ReproductionÊ ofÊ thisÊnewspaperÊ inÊ anyÊ form,Ê whetherÊ inÊ wholeÊ orÊ inÊ part,ÊwithoutÊ permissionÊ isÊ strictlyÊ prohibited.Ê ©Ê 2011,Ê allÊrightsÊreserved.ÊTheÊUCSDÊGuardianÊisÊnotÊresponsibleÊforÊtheÊreturnÊofÊunsolicitedÊmanuscriptsÊorÊart.ÊTheÊviewsÊexpressedÊhereinÊdoÊnotÊnecessarilyÊrepresentÊtheÊopin-ionsÊofÊtheÊUCSDÊGuardian,ÊtheÊUniversityÊofÊCaliforniaÊorÊAssociatedÊStudents.ÊTheÊUCSDÊGuardianÊisÊfundedÊbyÊadvertising.ÊIÊfoundÊitÊinÊtheÊtrash.
GeneralÊEditorial:Ê858-534-6580Ê
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News:Ê news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion:Ê opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports:Ê sports@ucsdguardian.org
Focus:Ê focus@ucsdguardian.org
Leisure:Ê leisure@ucsdguardian.org
Hiatus:Ê hiatus@ucsdguardian.org Ê
Photo:Ê photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design:Ê design@ucsdguardian.org
Art:Êart@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising:Ê858-534-0468
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax:Ê858-534-7035Business Manager
EmilyÊKuÊ
Marketing & Advertising Director
BrandonÊKatzer
Webmaster
BryanÊSmith
Marketing Assistant
ChristineÊAlabastro
Advertising Design & Layout 
AlfredoÊH.ÊVilanoÊJr.
A.S.ÊGraphicÊStudio Ê
Distributor
AmandaÊKuPage Layout
PraneetÊKolluru,ÊArielleÊSallaiAngelaÊChen
ArielleÊSallai
MargaretÊYau
LairaÊMartin
NicoleÊChan
RebeccaÊHorwitz
MargaretÊYau
MadelineÊMann
RachelÊUda
MinaÊNilchian
RenÊEbel
MonicaÊHaider
AndrewÊOh
JohnÊHanacek
PraneetÊKolluru
RebekahÊHwangEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
Associate News Editors
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Associate
Focus/Leisure Editor
Hiatus EditorCopy EditorPhoto EditorAssociate Photo EditorAssociate Design EditorArt Editor
Copy Reader
EmilyÊPham
HayleyÊBisceglia-Martin
MelodyÊChernDevelopment EditorDesign Program Director2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2011 | W WW.UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG
BIRDLAND By Rebekah Dyer
ResearchersÊProveÊSpoilersÊEnhanceÊOneÕsÊ
ReadingÊExperienceSCIENCEÊANDÊTECHNOLOGY
By Michael Chang
Staff Writer
     Snape kills Dumbeldore. Tyler 
Durden isn’t real. Soylent Green is people. It may be considered a social sin to reveal spoilers such as the ones previously mentioned, but a recent study at UCSD discovered that contrary to popular belief, spoilers actually enhance one’s reading experience.     UCSD department of psychology graduate student Jonathan Leavitt tested the effects of spoilers in short stories that have themes including ironic twist, mystery and evocative literary stories on UCSD students. Results show spoilers enhance readers’ enjoyment rather than detract from them.     Upon entering UCSD’s graduate program with an MFA in writing fiction, Leavitt was encouraged to start this study by psychology professor Nicholas Christenfeld, who helped him develop the project. Leavitt and Christenfeld began designing the test in September of last year — testing and analysis of the raw data took months to complete. They performed a total of three experiments with 12 different short stories by authors such as Roald Dahl and John Updike.     To be a part of the study, subjects were only required to be fluent and able to read in English. Due to such simple qualifications, subjects were chosen at random. All participants received versions of the same story that were unspoiled, with a separate spoiler on another sheet of paper and a version that had a spoiler that was put in the beginning, as if it was the opening of the story. They would read all three versions and rate how much they enjoyed each one on a scale of one to ten.     “We were interested in the experience of suspense and why people think that the excitement of reading a story depends on not knowing the ending, but then they reread the same stories and can enjoy them just as much, even when everything is already known, ” Leavitt said. “Y ou’re focused on outcomes and how things will turn out, and that gives readers the impression that if they already knew how it turned out, they would find the story less or not interesting. ”     All story genres proved to be more enjoyable despite being spoiled.     “We found very little difference, ” Leavitt said. “It seemed that what was most important was that the spoiler was clear and understandable. Across different genres, it seems like spoilers were making people enjoy stories m o r e .”     The only story that did not benefit from being spoiled was Anton Chekhov’s The Bet , an ironic twist story. 
However, Leavitt feels that enjoyment was reduced not because it was spoiled, but because the spoiler was poorly written. Readers found the spoiler to be difficult to understand and were 
uncertain on how the story would end based on the spoiler. The rest of the data still indicates that spoilers enhance reader enjoyment.     Leavitt’s next goal is to apply his theory to other narrative media and to find out why spoilers are having this particular effect. He has developed two theories to explain the trend.     “One is that having a spoiler makes a story easier to read and understand, ” Leavitt said. “The other theory is that people tend to focus on suspense regarding the outcome, and once you know how the story will end, it enables you to broaden your focus and appreciate the other aspects of the story, like the language and development of characters. ”
Readers can contact Michael Chang at 
mac005@ucsd.edu.REBEKAH HW ANG/GUARDIAN
SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY
stories and can enjoy them just 
as much, even when everything 
“Y ou’re focused on outcomes and 
THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2011 | W WW.UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 3
STUDENT DISCOUNT WITH THIS AD!
COME BY EITHER OF
 OUR 2 LOCATIONS! 
8657 Villa La Jolla Drive "inside the mall above the Theater"
8650 Genesee Ave, "Next to the Post Office above Bristle Farms"    Costa Verde Center
Sunday, Sept. 11
12:05 a.m.: Welfare check
/uni25B6 A 24-year-old male on the intersection 
of Voigt Drive and Hopkins Drive was arrested for taking mushrooms and was taken to medics, but was cleared by hospital staff. Closed by adult arrest .
Monday, Sept. 126:10 a.m.: Grand theft
/uni25B6 Unknown suspects stole the hardtop 
of the victim’s convertible, worth $1,000, at Lower Muir Parking Lot. Online report.  
4:46 p.m.: Citizen contact
/uni25B6 The reporter at Peterson Hall forgot 
which parking lot she parked her vehicle in. Information only .
Tuesday, Sept. 135 p.m.: Grand theft
/uni25B6 Unknown suspects stole over $2,000 
worth of construction tools and copper wire at the Neal Electric construction site. Report taken .
Wednesday, Sept. 144:46 a.m.: Fire alarm
/uni25B6 The police initiated a fire watch when 
heat from a hot water pipe busted a gasket in RIMAC and caused water to leak from a ceiling sprinkler. Referred 
to other agency.10:24 a.m.: Vandalism
/uni25B6 Unknown suspects used black 
marker to deface the bathroom wall in Pepper Canyon Hall, causing $25 worth of damage. Report taken .
10:49 a.m.: Citizen contact
/uni25B6 A confused female was attempting to 
locate her brother at the International Center. Subject released to brother.
2:27 p.m.: Burglary
/uni25B6 An unknown suspect attempted to 
break into an ATM machine at UNEX K. Report taken .
3:40 p.m.: Threaten crime/terrorize
/uni25B6 An unknown male in Lot 416 
threatened the parking representative after he received a citation. Report 
taken .
10:30 p.m.-3:00 p.m.: Fraud
/uni25B6 An unknown suspect used the victim’s 
student ID number to obtain $2,662.10 worth of property without the victim’s knowledge at the Bookstore. Report taken . 
Thursday, Sept. 152:08 p.m.: Disturbance
/uni25B6 Two females had a dog in 
noncompliance with the lifeguard kennel at the Scripps building. Referred 
to other agency.2:50-3:00 p.m.: Shoplifting
/uni25B6 A 19-year-old male was caught 
shoplifting $175 worth of products at the Bookstore. Closed by citation, adult .
Friday, Sept. 165:38 a.m.: Welfare check
/uni25B6 Two subjects were sleeping at Gilman 
Parking Structure. Field interview 
administered .
2:30 p.m. - 6:00 a.m.: Petty theft
/uni25B6 An unknown person(s) caused $200 
worth of damage and removed a part worth $20 from a UCSD street sweeper at Spanos Athletic Training Facility. Report taken .
3:36 p.m.: Non-injury accident report
/uni25B6 A bike fell off a shuttle bus at Garnet 
Avenue and was run over. Report taken .
9:06 p.m.: Welfare check
/uni25B6 The reporting party at Muir 
Apartments was looking for a son, who was possibly playing tennis. Information only .
Saturday, Sept. 1710:06 p.m.: Medical aid
/uni25B6 A male at Muir Commons had a 
mild seizure but was conscious and breathing. Referred to other agency.
11:15 a.m.: Assist other agency
/uni25B6 The police were ordered to locate the 
spouse of an injured Deputy Sheriff at the Biomedical Library. Information 
only.11:15 p.m.: Driving under the influence
/uni25B6 The police arrested a 22-year-old 
male for drunk driving at Lot 102. Arrest misdemeanor .
Sunday, Sept. 1811:17 p.m.: Possession of marijuana
/uni25B6 Marijuana was found under a vehicle 
in Lot 208 and was confiscated. Report 
taken .
— Compiled by Sarah Kang  
S/t.sc/a.sc/f.sc/f.sc W/r.sc/i.sc/t.sc/e.sc/r.scLIGHTS & SIRENS
with what to do in respect to fees. ”
   According to the UCOP , such a fee increase would lead to increased faculty and enrollment, as well as continued investment into expanding academic programs and facilities.    However, Lansing said that this scenario was less than ideal. The percentage of the fee increase is dependent on the amount of funding the UC system receives from the state. 
According to Lenz and Brostom, the decline in state 
funding began in the 1990-91 academic year, when the UC system lost 20 percent of its financial support from the state. 
Currently, state support for the UC system is 10 
percent higher, not adjusted for inflation, than the 1990-91 year, though the number of California high school graduates has increased from 68.6 percent in 1990 to 74.4 percent in 2011, spurring enrollment growth.       In 2005, UC and CSU officials entered a six-year agreement with Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger to have the state provide the minimum resources the system would need to reaffirm the UC’s high standards for education while increasing enrollment with their main intentions dependent on institutional accountability and state funding. 
The agreement was meant to expire during the 2010-
11 fiscal year but lasted only two years because of the state’s budget crisis.    At the meeting, the Regents also suggested alternate methods of raising money, which include an emphasis on corporate and alumni donations, as well as seeking new tax revenues. 
Other alternatives include planning classes with a 
higher student-faculty ratio and cutting faculty salaries.      These alternatives are considered as efforts that “would destroy UC’s historic commitment to quality, ” the Office of the President said in a statement.    The Regents was scheduled to vote on a new budget plan in November 2011, but Lansing said she was doubtful the board would be able to decide on a plan by then. Vazquez said the earliest the Regents would vote on any fee increase would be in January 2012. 
Readers can contact Rebecca Horwitz at rahorwit@ucsd.
edu.UCOP:ÊFeeÊIncreaseÊ
WouldÊLeadÊtoÊMoreÊEnrollmentÊinÊ2016
/uni25B6 TUITION, from page 1
AZUSA   |   HIGH DESERT   |   INLAND EMPIRE   |   LOS ANGELES   |   MURRIETA
ORANGE COUNTY   |   SAN DIEGO   |    VENTURA COUNTY   |   ONLINE(800) 825-5278
www.apu.edu/explore/educationgraduatecenter@apu.edu Call
Click
EmailEarn your degree in education
in 12 –18 months at APU.
With more than 36 credential and master’s 
degree opportunities, we’re confident we have 
a program for you.
APU offers:
• Convenient classes at 8 Southern California 
locations and online.
• Programs in teaching, counseling, physical 
education, and administration.
• NCATE-accredited programs recognized by 
all 50 states and internationally.
• Resources that  make transferring to APU a 
seamless process.
11209Classes start five times throughout the year. 
Contact us today!Earn your degree in 
education in 12-18 
months at APU.THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2011 | W WW.UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 11
At ﬁrst I didn’t recognize my symptoms as 
mental illness – I thought I was just having some bad days. Then, I learned that 1 in 4 adults experience mental health challenges such as depression, anxiety, bipolar disorder and others. I got help and now I am moving forward with my life. Recovery is possible and getting help is an important ﬁrst step.Mental illness  
can affect anyone.
Up2SD.org/yourlifeRead up to recognize the signs.UCÊEAPÊStudentsÊWorkÊWithÊChileanÊStudentsÊtoÊMobilizeÊforÊStudentÊFundingÊ
and a “Thriller” reenactment. 
However, recent protests have furthered divisions between the police and the students. According to an Aug. 26 story published in the Guardian UK , police used tear 
gas and water cannons against protesters. 
The same story reports that a 
16-year-old boy was shot in the chest during the protests. According to local media, witnesses said the police were responsible for the boy’s death.   “I have participated in some of the protests and am in full support of the students, ” Warren College senior Jordan Dalton said in an email. “Many Chilean political concepts have been exported from the United States and the concept of education is no different. Chilean students are extremely politically informed, especially about the United States. ”     Dalton — who also spent her first semester in Chile at la Universidad de Chile and is now at Pontificia Unviersidad Católica — sees the protests as a way for students to demand better funding for schools, debt reduction for former students and an increase in transparency in the government. 
While Chilean students are 
organizing and mobilizing largely online with social media, Dalton said the campus remains an important location for debates and discussions.    “A  paro  [an unauthorized strike] 
doesn’t mean the students don’t go to school, ” Dalton said. “In a well-run paro  the students are at 
the university discussing ideas for furthering their cause or preparing for the next demonstration. ”   Despite frequent UC tuition increases drawing criticisms of privatizing public education, student response has been largely underwhelming. The UCSD campus didn’t organize for last year’s system-wide March 2 event, according to a March 3 Guardian  
article titled “Campus Fails to Mobilize for March 2 Day of Action. ” UC students can learn something from Chilean students, Y oung said. /uni00A0   Y oung attributes Chilean students’ political presence as a response to its political history and the country’s structure of education — the U.S. government supports 35.8 percent of higher education, while Chile’s government supports 14.4 percent.   “The government in Chile hasn’t been established for as long as the United States, so the younger generation who didn’t experience repression during Pinochet’s regime have a kind of fearless hope and opinion for their vision of the future that they want for their lives, ” Y oung said.    According to Doerr, UCEAP says it is too early to say how the nation’s events are impacting applications or interest for next year. Despite the circumstances, Y oung and Dalton both agree that witnessing the social movement is an important education in and out of itself.    “The student movement has the slogan ‘Educación Gratuita y de Calidad, ’ which means ‘Education that is free and of quality, ’” Y oung said. “Chile is at a crucial point of change, and if we hope to become conscious global citizens and take a role in shaping the kind of society we want as well, it would do a world of good to be informed about what’s going on and take a leaf out of the students’ book to defend what’s important on a bigger picture. ”
Readers can contact Nicole Chan at 
n3chan@ucsd.edu./uni25B6 PROTESTS, from page 1
PHOTOS  COURTESY  OF UNIVERSIDAD DE CHILEOPINIONMARGARET YAU
opinion @ucsdguardian.orgCON TACT THE EDITOR4 THE UC SD G UAR DIAN  | THURSDAY , SEPTEMBER 22, 2011 | WWW. UCSDG UAR DIAN.ORG
Moving off campus is great. 
Not only do you finally have a place to call your 
home away from home, but it’s also far, far away from the stifling confines of the prison they call on-campus housing. So I was jazzed about mov-ing out, that is, until I kicked in the door of my new home and discovered that the house was nearly as barren as Sarah Jessica Parker. 
I needed furniture. But a quick 
glance at my bank account told me that short of rummaging through a dumpster, it looked like I would be eating my meals whilst squatting around an overturned cardboard box. And that’s what I did — for the first two nights. The next night, my friends and I left our dignity in our empty house and headed for the Costa Verde dumpster.
If you’re disgusted by the idea of 
dumpster furniture, then you obvi-ously haven’t seen my sweet IKEA coffee table (retail value: $50). Or my awesome collection of folding deck chairs, my roommate’s desk, three of my trash cans or the vast array of cleaning products that I used to scour the furniture of stranger-danger germs.
The cherry on top of my furniture 
shopping experience was when I dis-covered my storage unit had a drop-off zone for unwanted and forgotten junk. There, the phrase “one man’s trash, another man’s treasure” rang true. I snatched up a gigantic painting of the Grand Canyon that would tear down a section of drywall if I tried to hang it up. Ah, the aesthetics of inte-rior decoration.
If you’re actually going to take this 
column seriously and you’re currently en route to the nearest dumpster, flashlight in hand, keep these tips in mind: 
Only look in dumpsters near large 
apartment complexes during popular move-out and move-in days. There, you are more likely to find actual fur-niture than dozens of not-so-carefully tied up bags of food scraps and mold. People who simply can’t cram their beloved desk vanity into the moving truck will often tearfully toss it in the nearby dumpster. And nothing says vanity like a dumpster, right?
Please, for the love of god, don’t 
take anything home that has a cloth surface. Ignore that heavily broken-in mattress — just assume that it’s riddled with bed bugs and unsightly stains that you wouldn’t want to con-front under a black light. 
Cleaning is key. Y our stockpile 
of Clorox will finally pay itself off handsomely — anticipate devoting the next hour or so to cleaning your newly acquired treasures. Some of your furniture may have come from a dumpster, but if you want to effec-tively impress, not repulse your guests with just how miserly you are, clean up. 
When I stop to think about it, 
dumpster diving is a revolting con-cept. But after taking a long look at my thoroughly cleaned, completely free swag, I decide to take pride in doing the impossible: I’ve managed to out-hipster the guy who got his desk chair at the local Salvation Army. Free Furniture:
a Dumpster Diving Saga
Free 
for All
MARGARET YAU
m1yau@ucsd.edu
Free 
for 
School may have been out for the 
summer, but political develop-ments took no break. Among the 
relevant — the UC Board of Regents announced further tuition increases, Marye Anne Fox announced her plan to step down as UCSD’s chancellor in the following year and Gov. Jerry Brown signed the first half of the California Dream Act into play while the second half awaits his signature. 
Tuition Woes Increase
For anyone tracking the financial sta-
tus of the University of California, one thing is clear: This year is the beginning of the end. For the first time, the UC system is receiving more income from student tuition than state funding, a development that points to the increas-ing privatization of our university. In 2011 alone, income from tuition has risen $360 million, and according to the Los Angeles Times and the UC Board of Regents, it’s only going to go up. On top of a 30-percent tuition increase since 2009, the Regents, as of Sept. 15, are considering a further 8 to 16-percent increase over the next four years.
UCSD is attempting to raise income 
through tried-and-true methods. This year, 18 percent of UCSD’s freshman class comes from outside California — an admittance rate up 36 percent from last year. While the higher tuitions of out-of-state students may increase fund-ing, this solution shuts in-state students out of a UC education. The unprofitable (read: mostly humanities) university programs that face the deepest cuts will look to private funding to escape extinction, an attempt that mirrors the University of Michigan’s use of private help to keep their business school afloat.
Despite these grim reminders — 
there is still hope. Student action has yielded definitive budgetary changes in colleges such as San Diego State. When SDSU’s new president was offered a sala-ry that was a $100,000 increase from his predecessor, protests over this issue led to a review of state educational salaries and a cap on CSU president salaries. 
While student activism has proven 
successful for SDSU and could indeed galvanize action at UCSD, students and the UC Regents have options beyond marches and demonstrations. Three-year degrees and less stringent general education requirements are valid plans that have the potential to save the UC system. The options are out there. Now it’s just a matter of taking action.  
Chancellor Steps Down
Over the summer, Chancellor Marye 
Anne Fox announced plans to renounce her administrative position and return to the chemistry classroom after seven years on the job — eight years after June 2012, when she is scheduled to set down. Given that the average tenure of a chancellor is 4.5 years, she’s been here longer than most university leaders.
Which isn’t to say her tenure wasn’t 
successful.
Since her appointment in 2004, 
UCSD has launched $3.5 billion in con-struction projects — among them, Fox achieved her goal of building transfer housing. Recognition followed suit: Awards have been bestowed upon the UCSD community — Nobel, Pulitzer and MacArthur prizes — and Fox received the National Medal of Science at the White House last fall. 
But Fox’s tenure wasn’t all sunshine 
and awards. Budget cuts, rising student fees and racial conflict were the source of heated protests, and we lost three top professors to Rice University because they offered them more money — a clear step backward for us academically.
Most notably, the “Compton 
Cookout” and the string of racially charged incidents that followed in February 2010 left UCSD students with an indelible image of their university and those who run it. The Black Student Union roared outside the Chancellor’s Complex that winter, demanding that Fox address the lack of support and out-reach for minority students.
That’s the kind of job that can wear a 
former professor out.
So as much as Fox has done for 
UCSD, it’s fair to expect her successor to be someone who understands the demands of the job. Preferably, the new chancellor can focus on internal con-flicts like those that shaped Winter 2010, before they turn into national news, in addition to keeping the university com-petitive.
The big successes for UCSD 
— /uni00A0acclaim, high-enrollment, big-budget projects — aren’t as bright in the face of student unrest. Now that we’re paying more for our education than ever, it’s time students demanded some input in the choice of our leader and figurehead —/uni00A0or at least choice in the issues we 
REBEKAH  HWANG /GUARDIANSummer in Review
T uition increases, a chancellor departure and equal access for undocumented students have at least one 
thing in common — they will have an untold impact on students at UCSD in the coming year.
Angela Chen
EDITOR  IN CHIEF
Arielle Sallai
Margaret Yau
MANAGING E DITORS
Laira Martin
NEWS E DITOR
Madeline Mann
ASSOCIA TE OP INION E DITOREDITORIAL  BOARD
The UCSD Guardian  is published twice a week at 
the University of California at San Diego. Contents 
© 2010. Views expressed herein represent the 
majority vote of the editorial board and are not 
necessarily those of the UC Board of Regents, the 
ASUCSD or the members of the Guardian  staff. See SUMMER, page 5THE UC SD G UAR DIAN  | THURSDAY , SEPTEMBER 22, 2011 | WWW. UCSDG UAR DIAN.ORG 5
KARL STRAUSS BREWING COMPANY
SEPTEMBER 28
5:00-9:00 P
$20
TIX ONLINE Meet the brewers.
Debuting Tower 20 Double IPA    -on cask and straight from the tank.
MORE INFO A T KARLSTRAUSS.COM 
THE MENTA L FISHBOWL By Alex Nguyen 
Dream Act a Worthy Investment in Student Minority
Dear Editor,
Articles written by American 
newspapers have suggested that the 
Chilean protests are dangerous and are hindering American foreign exchange students from advancing in their studies. As a UCSB student studying at a public university in Santiago, I feel the reverse, that this is a unique educational opportunity. Isn’t that the most important part of study-ing abroad — to experience a foreign culture?  Otherwise, why not stay in the comfort zone of your home uni-versity? While studying in a foreign place, you will be adjusting and adapt-ing daily to the new culture around you. We “ viejos” (second semester 
students) who were around when the strikes started, had an adjustment period, but we now accept it as just one more adjustment that comes with the territory.
It is a historic time in Chilean 
history, and I am lucky to witness it firsthand, learning more outside the classroom than inside. Every Chilean is current on the student protests, whether they agree with them or not. They will give you a history lesson about the past forty years to explain the value of democracy in Chile. They are an incredibly informed public, far more than the majority of Americans. Even more sadly, the average Chilean probably knows more about American politics than the American public.
Is it possible to study in Santiago? 
Absolutely. Though the Chilean stu-dents are on strike, foreign students are still obligated to attend class, as are the professors, who are not officially on strike. While there definitely were nuisances in trying to arrange semes-ter schedules, the directors of EAP Chile and the international students offices at the universities are working diligently to ensure that everyone has enough classes to meet their educa-tional goals, including the option of special studies projects with Chilean professors to make up for classes that were cancelled. 
Compared to California, the class 
size can’t be beat. When was the last time all your classes contained two to five students? We know our professors on a personal level and have more flexibility in the class. Open discus-sion is the norm, making classes more interesting and creating a supportive environment for those still learning Spanish. 
Students in California could learn 
a lesson from the Chilean youth. UC tuition has risen more than 75 percent in three years. Our higher education system has tanked. Classes are being cancelled, majors/minors are dropped and students crashing over-enrolled classes is now a way of life.
But the difference is, they are  
doing something about it. The student demonstrations are all about provid-ing affordable, quality education for every Chilean. Rather than feel incon-venienced by the protests, American students should take advantage of this moment in Chilean history! Spend your time observing how students can democratically make a difference in improving the educational system that is failing them. Even more important, bring those lessons back to the U.S.  
—Elena Allen
Senior, UC Santa Barbara
▶ The Guardian  welcomes letters from its readers. 
All letters must be addressed, and written, to 
the editor of the Guardian . Letters are limited 
to 500 words, and all letters must include the writer’s name, college and year (undergraduates), department (graduate students or professors) or city of residence (local residents). A maximum of three signatories per letter is permitted. The Guardian Editorial Board reserves the right to 
edit for length, accuracy, clarity and civility. The Editorial Board reserves the right to reject letters for publication. Due to the volume of mail we receive, we do not confirm receipt or publication of a letter.Protests Another Facet of 
Study Abroad LearningLETTER  TO THE EDITOR
want prioritized —/uni00A0and the opportu-
nity to offer feedback during this new appointment would be a great start.
Senate Passes Dream Act
In the midst of many politi-
cal developments this summer (California redistricting, the debt ceil-ing crisis) came a big win for undocu-mented students. Assembly Bill 130 passed through Congress, giving said students access to privately funded scholarships.
It’s a great victory for undocu-
mented students, but it’s not over yet. Assembly Bill 131, a sister bill that would grant undocumented stu-dents access to state scholarships and grants, is now waiting on Gov. Jerry Brown’s signature. Brown’s initial support for the bill is waning due to the bill’s potential strain on the state budget, but that hasn’t stopped both sides from rehashing old — but per-fectly legitimate — arguments. One side stands by the reasonable asser-tion that the state barely has enough money in its coffers to support its legal citizens — much less a wave of undocumented ones.
The other side, and the side we 
ultimately fall on, claims that the state investment in undocumented stu-dents would pay off in the long run. Many of these students did not come to this country of their own volition, and because they already have roots here, an education is the solid boost they need to become a productive member of society. This has already been proven with rulings in Plyer v. 
Doe and the passage of Assembly Bill 
540, which allows undocumented students access to California public schools through the 12th grade and in-state tuition rates for state col-leges, respectively. Not allowing these students to finish what they (and the state) have started will only damage the state economy and push these stu-dents into a permanent lower class.
Even if the bill is signed, the battle 
is far from over. These bills may give undocumented students a freshly minted college degree, but they still won’t be citizens — that’s still under Congressional jurisdiction. But until then, passing AB 131 will be a worthy step towards creating a more inclusive American dream.
REBEKAH  HWANG /GUARDIAN▶ SUMMER, fromÊpageÊ4leisure6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2011 | WWW.UC SDGUARDIAN .ORG
MINA NILCHIAN
leisure @ucsdguardian.orgCONTACT THE EDITOR
lifestyle
 leisure
lifestyle
Single White 
Female Seeks Atheist Big Spoon
One week in, and I can already 
tell my first, and likely last, online dating account (on the 
popular website OkCupid) is the best possible version of myself. Y es, I chose 
a flattering photo. Y es, I refrained 
from including the sarcastic answers I personally find endearing, but are undeniably interpreted as bitchy to those that are not well versed in Grade-A Los Angeles sass. And yes, I did click the button that said I like dogs even though I don’t, in fact, like dogs. I can tolerate them.  
But so far online dating has been 
anything but difficult. Talk about myself (no problem), answer numer-ous nonsensical emails (that’s basically my everyday job description) and get 
hit on — all from the comfort of my own home. 
The notion of online dating came 
about when a fellow Guardian editor 
asked me to share my thoughts on the phenomenon. I wasn’t sure if her question was prompted due to her own personal manhunt (turns out that it was) or if it was her sneaky way of proposing a column idea (it was not, but so it became). I quickly replied to her instant message with a “don’t knock it ‘till you try it” type response, along with the personal note that I had not tried it thus far due to my lingering “hopeless romantic senti-ment. ” Now, this sentiment definitely still exists. But if I find my Romeo in a trite yet intimate Parisian scene or over a cup of coffee at Pete’s (in broad daylight might I add), isn’t he Romeo nonetheless? 
But once I created my profile, I 
quickly began to notice some things about the slew of twenty-something San Diego boys online. First, I learned that intuition is going to be a key fac-tor in making this experience success-ful. With only a few hundred words and a handful of photos to make a decent first impression, many of these guys aren’t using their best judgment when it comes to leaving out details about their World of Warcraft habits and choosing photos that aren’t taken in front of their bathroom mirrors. 
After some browsing, I next real-
ized that my intuition is more shallow than I’ d like to admit. I began to won-der if these men even lead lives out-side of their laptops. But if anything, OkCupid was to blame. After taking a few personal quiz questions (i.e. Would you rather be the big spoon or little spoon? Do you believe in God? etc.), the website quickly weeds out all the potential suitors that don’t fit your interests through their matching process. So once I answered my fair share of questions, I was left with a long list of atheist big spoons and the only thing left to do was look at their photos. How could you not be superfi-cial? /uni00A0All the work was done for me. 
Now before we get too far into 
this social experiment, let’s get a few things clear. I will not openly discuss said newspaper column with said dates but I will not lie about my affiliation LAIRA MARTIN
lmm002@ucsd.eduThis Modern
 Love
CUPS 
AND
CONSEQUENCES
For both newbie freshmen and wizened old-timers, the hangover is an inevitable consequence of a night of the true college experience. While the nausea, headaches, fatigue and 
general sense of dread are rarely enough to convince you to give your binge-drinking the boot, not being able to finish the three MMW papers you wisely decided to leave off until the day before can be apt reason to figure out some new tricks for dealing with the morning after.
But before you start eating burnt toast and taking more shots, 
tune into the advice of two San Diego bartenders, David and Tina Abott*. David and Tina, who respectively have five and six years 
of experience behind the bar, dished in (with their fair share of disagreement) on the specific hangovers caused by common col-lege drinks, as well as which tricks they use to ensure a smooth recovery. 
VODKA
David says that because of its purity, high-quality vodka won’t 
give you the nausea that other liquors will, but the high concentra-
tion of alcohol makes for greater dehydration, which, as the shots 
add up, will probably cause an aching headache later on. To avoid the worst, however, steer clear of the cheap stuff.
SUGARY COCK TAIL S
Both Tina and David also agree that the sugary, fruit cocktails 
are the worst concoctions when it comes to hangovers. “Sugar By Mina Nilchian • Associate Leisure EditorWHAT YOU 
shouLd kNow 
WHEN THE 
EIGHT SHOTS 
froM LAst 
NIGHTÕS 
RAGER HIT 
YOU
See HANGOVER, page 7*Names have been changedSee MODERN, page 7THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2011 | WWW.UC SDGUARDIAN .ORG 7
RESTAURANT REVIEW •  BY ARIELLE SALLAI
THE BISTRO
As much as the average college 
student might enjoy a tastefully prepared meal, Ramen noodles 
will always reign supreme. Sure, price has everything to do with it, but there’s some-thing to be said for the delight of dripping powder-flavored broth over that chem textbook mid slurp-and-study. The Bistro at the Strand — UCSD Housing, Dining & Hospitality’s first full-service, sit-down restaurant (that takes meal points!) — aims to change that, giving the dorm-room staple and college dining in general a serious upgrade.
Plus, as part of the newly 
revamped Village Housing, just past Eleanor Roosevelt College on the far north corner of campus, The Bistro has the swanky decor to match. Modern, surprisingly comfortable pod chairs, shiny windows all around and fur-nishing that’s inspired more by IKEA than by the restaurant’s self-pro-fessed Asian roots, create an atmosphere perfect for the cheap freshman who wants to use meal points on a first date.
Among the more traditional Pan-
Asian options, the Angus beef sliders ($9) are a surprising standout. Topped with mild kimchee slaw and an artisan potato roll, served with taro chips on the side, they are packed with some serious flavor, especially compared to the dry patties dished up at other on-campus eateries. The slaw, also served on the side, only works in the two mega-juicy burgers; oth-erwise it’s just spice-less cabbage.
The soba noodles with lemongrass 
shrimp skewer ($10) are less recom-mendable. The heavy noodles have a disarmingly heavy wheat flavor and the vegetarian broth, carrots, snow peas, red bell pepper and baby bok choy do little 
to cover up the cardboard-like taste. Fortunately, the Bistro does well with meats, and the shrimp skewer has enough bite for the rest of the dish.
The spicy red curry seared 
tofu ($9) is a good choice for vegetarians on a menu that’s mostly carnivore-dominated. It’s tofu for those who fear tofu — completely smothered in the right amount of pungent sauce.
The service is schizophrenic 
— during our dining experi-
ence, the staff flitted from looks of pure naivete to sheer disdain as they attempted to make it through a seemingly manage-able rush — but that’s to be expected from an under-staffed, new eatery with only a crop of stressed-out students to hire from. We’ll give the Bistro some time to grow; for now, it’s still a pleasant alternative to the dining hall fried chicken otherwise available.
Hours: 
Mon-Thurs11 a.m. - 8 p.m.Fri11 a.m. - 4 p.m.Sat & SunClosed
Price Range: $5-$18Recommended: 
Angus beef sliders
always hurts, ” David said. Sugar makes for greater absorption of 
alcohol, and the mix of all the artificial fruit flavorings will not bode well on your stomach after the third margarita, adding nausea to the headache that has already been caused by the liquor.
BEER
Each body will have it’s own physical reaction to various brands 
of beer, but overdoing any brew will give you a more nauseous 
hangover the next day. Due to its gaseous nature and the fact that it expands your stomach as the night goes on, a beer-induced hang-over will probably consist of more stomach pain and nausea than anything else. As for which brand, Tina sticks to Coors while David prefers Budweiser. It’s all about personal taste and limiting yourself to what you can handle.
AVO IDING AND CURING HANGO VERS
“Have some Jaeger and Redbull, and then drink water, ” Tina 
recommends. “It counteracts the effects of the hangover. The ‘bomb’ part of it really gets you up and any caffeine helps with the headache. ” 
Commonly known as “eating the 
hair of the dog that bit you, ” drink-ing more alcohol the next morning is generally thought to be a bad idea, succeeding only in putting off your hangover symptoms until later.
“It makes the eventual hangover 
go by more smoothly, ” David admits, although he doesn’t personally abide by the Jaegerbomb remedy. His own trick is waking up in the morning, taking Tylenol with plenty of water and going back to sleep. “It’s good to hydrate and just sleep a lot of it off. ”
Admittedly, the best way to cure a 
hangover is to avoid it entirely, Tina said. “If you know you’ll be drink-ing, get a couple Gatorades and pop them in the fridge. If you can manage to pound them in before you go to bed, you won’t wake up with such a bad hangover. ” She also recommends that for every drink consumed, you accompany it with a cup of water. “When I’m at the bar and I see someone drinking a lot, I’ll just slide them a water, ” she said.
Both say that the most important thing is to know your own 
drinking limitations. All it takes is some planning. “Be conscien-tious of what you’re drinking, ” Tina said. “Know your limit and what works best for you, and just stick to that, and you’ll be fine. ” Tips for the Morning After
▶ HANGOVER, fromÊpageÊ6
with the  Guardian  (because let’s be 
real, that’s usually the first thing my subconscious blathers out). And I will in no way sacrifice my personal mor-als for the sake of this column. That means I will not send or positively respond to winky face emoticons. I will not have sex on the first date and I will in no circumstance respond to someone whose profile states they are good at “playing with yo’ vaginal receptacle!” (true story) or with the initial message “hey dorky! you the random type?” (also another pain-fully true story). And I will carry 
pepper spray. 
As a young woman on a dat-
ing website, much of my experi-ence was predestined. A week into my OkCupid experience, I had already done exactly what one of the cofounders of OkCupid would later suggest in his welcome email; I had contacted the guys I  was interested in.
With a plethora of men that 
seemed less than appealing, I had found a grand total of two guys I found both attractive and interesting. I did my best to reply to the litter of suspiciously vague yet complimen-tary messages from users on the site (many of which I later compared with coworkers’ messages to find that the ambiguity was a mere way of disguising a mass message we had all received). But the two coffee dates 
I’ve already set up upon my return to San Diego were both initiated by me. So loyal readers, wish me luck as I embark on the dubious journey that is online dating. And if I miss my deadline or don’t answer my phone, just know that I was last seen with musicluvr21 from Escondido. Navigating 
the World of  Online Dating
▶ MODERN, fromÊpageÊ6
“If you know you’ll 
be drinking, get a 
couple Gatorades 
and pop them 
in the fridge. If 
you can manage 
to pound them 
in before you 
go to bed, you 
won’t wake up 
with such a bad 
hangover.”
TINA ABOTT
BARTENDERhiatusREN EBEL
hiatus @ucsdguardian.orgCONTACT THE EDITOR
arts&entertainment8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2011 | WWW.UC SDGUARDIAN .ORG
For two days, female musical 
comedy duo Garfunkel & Oates brainstormed what a penis looks like. The girls, 
actresses Riki Lindhome (Garfunkel, 32) and Kate Micucci (Oates, 30), were writing the lyrics for “I Don’t Understand Job” — a little ditty about uncovering the mysteries of third base. Their mission: A clever way of describing male geni-talia.
They eventually settled on “Silly Putty Pac 
Man ghost” and “Darth Vader Pez dispenser, ” though the song still took them a total of five months to write, Lindhome told the  Guardian 
during a phone call from Los Angeles.
“Sometimes things will just come to us, ” 
Lindhome said. “It will be quick. We’ll write it in an hour and then maybe rewrite it the next day. And then sometimes it’s a five-month process. ”
Clearly, Garfunkel & Oates are serious about 
their dick jokes.
“I thought, ‘Wouldn’t it be funny if we had 
a Nixon reference, followed by Watergate, fol-lowed by Spiro Agnew, followed by Lyndon Johnson?’” Lindhome said, remembering the inspiration for one of the verses of “I Don’t Understand Job. ” “ And then you spend like three days on those lines. ”
But despite their current dedication, 
Garfunkel & Oates was never in either of the performers’ career plans. Both Lindhome and Micucci moved to LA from the east coast /uni00A0(Lindhome from Portville, N.Y . and Micucci from Nazareth, Pa.) to pursue careers in acting. Since then, Lindhome has appeared in 
films such as “Million Dollar Baby” and the remake of “The Last House on the Left, ” while Micucci is best known for her ukulele-playing character Stephanie Gooch on “Scrubs. ”
They were first introduced at the Upright 
Citizens Brigade improv theatre in 2006, where they were “going to see a friend’s show so we met in the audience and became friends really quickly, ” Lindhome said.
A few years later Lindhome wrote and 
directed a short film for the two of them to star in, decided to turn it into a musical and asked Micucci to co-write songs with her. And so Garfunkel & Oates was born.
“ Acting was always the primary focus, ” 
Lindhome said. “[Garfunkel & Oates] kind of just unfolded. And once it did unfold, some people thought we fell into it. Which is true ... But then after that we were like, ‘We’re really going to do this!’ and we really worked our asses off for this thing. ”
Since then, Garfunkel & Oates has racked up 
millions of views on Y ouTube for their bitterly sweet, ukulele-laced songs, caught the atten-tion of CNN (for their pro-gay marriage video, “Sex With Ducks”), performed on “The Tonight Show” and landed monthly gigs at Upright Citizens Brigade — making them staples of the LA alternative comedy scene.
Most notably, the duo signed a contract 
with HBO for a pilot show. They’re currently developing the script, but “things just take a lot longer than we thought, ” Lindhome said.
They’ve envisioned it as the female version of 
“Flight of the Conchords ” — or “Glee with dick jokes, ” as Lindhome has taken to describing it.
“I think it’s kind of like an extension of our 
stage show, where it’s two single girls in LA trying to make it, ” she said. “But it’s us like five years ago, so we aren’t recognized yet or getting paid at all. ”
For now, they’ll continue turning the sub-
jects of their girl talk into matter-of-fact songs like fan-favorites, “Pregnant Women Are Smug, ” “Go Kart Racing (Accidentally Masturbating)” and “This Party Took a Turn for the Douche. ”
But not every subject can be made into a 
hilarious-ukelele jam.
“People give us song ideas all the time, and 
we’ll consider them, but they don’t realize that it has to fill out three minutes, ” Lindhome said. “Facebook, blind dates, parents, holidays — you name it and it has been brainstormed and rejected by us. ”
DIRTY GIRL TALK
COMEDY DUO TAKES DITTIES TO THE LOFTBY ARIELLE SALLAITim, Eric and 
the War on Humor
Humor isn’t funny. When you’ve 
second-guessed friendships discussing “The Big Lebowski” 
and can respectably choose a life partner based on “a good sense of humor, ” clearly, it is some serious shit. And though we’ d like to believe in putting our differences aside to see our Christopher Guest in 
their Larry the Cable Guy, it’s just impos-
sible. What makes us laugh is a reflection of ourselves — one that we loyally defend despite the criticism of unfazed naysayers. 
Case in point: “Tim and Eric 
Awesome Show, Great Job!, ” the surrealis-tic sketch show/prolonged nightmare and brainchild of creators Tim Heidecker and Eric Wareheim. Wrongfully dismissed as yet another ADHD stoner-gag exhibi-tion in Cartoon Network’s Adult Swim lineup, “ Awesome Show” is a landmark not only in cult television, but the dawn of a new kind of humor altogether — one that insists on doling laughter, confusion, anger and terror in equal measure. 
Call it stubbornness, but I was never 
one to turn fanboy for any one fad (except, I’ll admit, a three-year dedica-tion to “Weird Al” Y ankovic in middle school). And when I first experienced “ Awesome Show” — the cast of off-the-
street weirdos, John C. Reilly as disturbed anchorman Dr. Steve Brule — I was entertained but hardly addicted. 
Y et, the more Tim and Eric  I casually 
consumed, the more difficult it became to resist. Their bizarre musical numbers, invented holidays and public access com-mercials all shone with a brilliant new set of comedic standards that television had been somehow missing altogether.
But, as is the bitter pill of any cult fol-
lower, the glaring judgment poured in from all sides. 
“Random” and “disgusting” became 
dirty words, spat from the ignorant mouth of the non-convert. And while a couple of lawless teens sticking it to the man by eating their own boogers in a musical PSA may not be an attractive image, the latter accusation is particularly aggravating when you consider the shit that actually passes for entertainment.
Take for example the episode of “Two 
and a Half Men” when the lovably per-verted Charlie, after considering sleeping with a pregnant woman, proclaims, “Just because there’s a bun in the oven doesn’t mean I want to butter it. ” The hasty laugh track is answered by the Pavlovian guf-faws of some 14 million home viewers who all seem to ignore that the notion of ejaculating onto an unborn fetus is far more disturbing and morally reprehensi-ble than digging for that proverbial gold. 
Granted, “ Awesome Show”  is des-
ignated for its target audience. But its sheer creativity is hard to dismiss while much of mainstream comedy television is beginning to resemble one long, Office -
inspired mumblecore-like sitcom. /uni00A0
If our tastes mature but never really 
change (of course “Weird Al” became an “ Awesome Show” regular), Tim and Eric’s upcoming feature film, though propped upon a cast of big comedy names like Will Ferrell and Zach Galafianakis, will likely do nothing to change the face of mainstream comedy. But the devout will continue to celebrate the duo’s demented creations in the face of our unamused and therefore inferior peers, keeping alive what is so intrinsically our own.REN EBEL
rebel@ucsd.eduBeer and
 Loathing
“WILLIAM KUNSTLER: DISTURBING
KEN CINEMA / JAN. 15. / $10HIATUS PICKS THE WEEK’S BEST BETSexit strategy
FIRST FRIDAY
PRICE CENTER
SEPT. 23, 11 A.M. 
FREE
MIAMI HORROR
PRICE CENTER 
PLAZA
SEPT. 23, 8 P.M.
FREENATIVE AMERICAN 
DAY CELEBRATION
INTERNATIONAL CENTER
SEPT. 23, 12 P.M.
FREE
DISORIENTATION
OLD STUDENT CENTER
SEPT. 23, 11 A.M.FREEMOVIE UNDER THE 
STARS: TALLADEGA NIGHTS
VILLAGE WEST LAWN
SEPT. 24, 9 P.M.
FREEWARREN AIR 
BANDS
WARREN 
AMPHITHEATER
SEPT. 25, 8 P.M. 
FREE
MEET THE BEACH
SCRIPPS BEACH
SEPT. 25, 10 A.M.
FREEdruthers  
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS
This 6-piece garage-pop powerhouse emerged 
from the hills of Bowling Green, Kentucky with a debut album bursting at the seems with jangling, hormone-fueled summer anthems. Catch them this Sunday at the Che with openers Oliver Trol-ley and Shining Through. GARFUNKEL & OATES
WHEN: SEPT. 24, 8 P.M.
WHERE: THE LOFTTICKETS: $15 /parenleft.caseRESERVED/parenright.case, 
$12 /parenleft.caseGA/parenright.case 
PHONE: /parenleft.case858/parenright.case 534/hyphen.case8497ONLINE: ARTPWR.COMCONCERT PREVIEWTHE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2011 | WWW.UC SDGUARDIAN .ORG 9
Predicting the future is dif-
ficult. But Parisian space-dance 
quartet Chateau Marmont appreci-ates the attempt. 
“I think it’s a mix between two 
periods, ” founder/keyboardist Guillaume de Maria said about Chateau Marmont’s retro-futuristic sound. “We are big collectors of analog synths. The way they are built, the way they look, the way they sound — it reminds us of old sci-fi movies. ” 
The music video for the band’s 
motorik, vocoder-doused “One Hundred Realities” stunningly captures this fondness of the new as told by the old. Japanese direc-tor Shinya Sato’s hazy, black and white scenes of animated marbles against kaleidoscopic astral back-drops resemble some lost “Twilight Zone” experiment.
“Shinya is in a band called 
Crystal, and they released an EP on our label, ” de Maria said. “We loved them, they were really nice and we knew that Shinya was making a lot of videos. He told us the concept and we were really excited, so we gave him carte blanche. When we watched it we were like, ‘Wow, this is really how we imag-ined the music. ’”
But Chateau Marmont’s 
electronic tendencies mark a fairly recent venture for the band, spurred by an interest in remix-ing mainstream pop songs. Their downplayed, spaced-out remixes of La Roux’s “Quicksand” and Ladyhawke’s “My Delirium” man-aged to breach France’s competitive electronic scene. 
“In 2009 we were making a lot of remixes, ” de Maria said. “More than original songs. We kept the main voice of the song and we managed to compose and build around that voice. At the time we 
were not very good 
singers, so we had a real voice from a real song. We started using our drum machines more, and at the same time we signed our first EP to a very famous electronic French label, Institubes. ”
After record-
ing a new LP and making their U.S. debut at South by Southwest this summer, the band plans on remaining in the States. 
“In Paris, people are not very 
open-minded, ” said de Maria. “In the U.S. you can play for young people or old people and they all have a good time. We’re really looking forward to coming to California. ”
THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2011 | WWW.UC SDGUARDIAN .ORG 9
CHECK IN AND TRIP OUT
France’s Chateau 
Marmont talks cosmic-pop and marbles in space.By Ren Ebel
CHATEAU MARMONT 
WITH REVOLVER
WHEN: OCT. 3, 8:30 P.M.
WHERE: THE CASBAHTICKETS: $12, 21+PHONE: /parenleft.case619/parenright.case 232/hyphen.case4355ONLINE: CASBAHMUSIC.COMCONCERT PREVIEWPHOTO  COURTESY  OF PATRIK  RAGNARSSON10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2011 | WWW.UC SDGUARDIAN .ORG
THEY TOOK IT TO  
THE SUPREME COURT AND WON!CHOOSE HOUSTON LAW
The University of Houston is an EEO/AA institution.Our students shepherded a case through the lower courts and on 
to the nation’s highest, stunning the immigration world with a unanimous decision. Hands-on training is a large part of what we do at the University of Houston Law Center. But it’s just part of  what we oﬀer. /T_he Law Center combines the best of all worlds:
•     Excellence in education with multiple “Top Ten” specialty 
programs
•     Reasonable tuition and fees
•      A campus recognized as one of the most diverse in the United 
States
We are a Tier One law school in a Tier One university. In addition, 
our home is Houston: the nation’s fourth largest city with a robust legal employment market and an aﬀordable cost of living to make the most of your budget. /T_here’s a lot to like about our school. Find out more at 
www.law.uh.edu.
COLLEGE ADS
5" x 7"
©2011 Twentieth Century Fox.
Girls
Father, Son, Holy Ghost
TRUE PANTHER 
SOUNDS
A followup to the 
fantastic debut Album  and 
the equally impressive Broken Dreams Club E P,  Girls’ Father, Son, Holy 
Ghost  offers up the same 
’60s rock sound — only now with incorporated string orchestrations and a gospel choir — with a confident, well-produced finish. 
“Honey Bunny, ” the 
upbeat surf-rock open-ing track, is most remi-niscent of Girls’ previous releases. The sunny gui-tar and rumbling drums, highlighted with backing gospel harmonies, works as a great transition before Father, Son, Holy 
Ghost  begins to explore 
its country, gospel and soul undertones more deeply. 
“Die” borrows ele-
ments of ’80s metal, using a distorted guitar intro to lead straight into an aggressive head-bobbing riff reminiscent of Black Sabbath — a completely new stylistic venture for the band. Meanwhile, Christopher Owens’ fragile and pained lyrics assure that “no, nothing’s gonna be okay” and “we’re all gonna die. ” 
The sentiment marks 
a transition from Owens’ yearning for love to his acceptance of failed dreams. But Father  also has its 
share of Girls’ expected tenderheartedness. On the dreamy gospel “My Ma, ” shimmering electric guitars float in a cho-rus of angelic backing vocals. Easily the most powerful track on the album, “My Ma” reveals Owens’ strive for hap-piness and love, as his honest, half-whispering voice weaves through the four-minute track. /uni00A0
Following suit with 
the nostalgic styles and forlorn themes, “Forgiveness” presents the peak of Father ’s 
passion. The track’s country-ballad style, full of spacious guitar and slow, acoustic strums, details Owens’ most straightforward thoughts of forgiveness from his own family. 
The eight-minute 
epic strives to bring positive out of life’s struggles while con-ceding that bad news is something tough to ignore and forget.
A more frustrated, 
technically mature story of love and heartbreak, Father, Son, Holy Ghost’s hook-filled gems create a flawless soundtrack to the first crushes and lost loves of a summer long forgotten.
— Tanner Cook
S/t.sc/a.sc/f.sc/f.sc W/r.sc/i.sc/t.sc/e.sc/r.scSF Heartbreakers Return With 
Soul on Sophomore Effort8
10ALBUM REVIEW
Every year, UCSD graduates choose the PharmD
Program at the University of Michigan College of Pharmacy. In fact, nearly 20 percent of our
PharmD enrollment is comprised of alumni fromCalifornia universities. 
What accounts for Michigan’s popularity among
Golden Staters? First, we are consistently ranked amongAmerica’s top pharmacy schools. Secondly, we consider a lot more than GPA and PCAT scores when evaluating
your application.
Earn your bachelor’s degree at UCSD, and then earn
your PharmD at U-M. That’s what many UCSD studentsdo every year.
To learn more about the PharmD Program at
Michigan, visit our Web site at www.umich.edu/~pharmacy .
Or contact the College of Pharmacy at 734-764-7312(mich.pharm.admissions@umich.edu ).
Your future never looked brighter.
Meet some alumni of
California universitieswho recently enrolledas University ofMichigan PharmD students.
Look no further than 
the University of Michigan.
Still looking for a reason to make Michigan yourpharmacy
school? Consider these :
1. Financial support unequalled by any other U.S. pharmacy
school.
2. Outstanding pay .
3. Job security in economically uncertain times.
4. Unlimited opportunities to improve people’s lives .
5. Unparalleled career choices .
6. Continuous growth potential .
7. Life and career mobility .
8. The prestige of owning a degree from one of America’s 
top-ranked pharmacy schools.
9.Membership in an influential alumni network spanning 
the globe.
10.The power to apply medical knowledge at the forefront of
technological innovation.
11.Small class size to maximize individualized educational 
experiences.
12.One-to-one learning with world-renowned faculty .Looking for a great pharmacy school?
THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2011 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN . ORG 13
Guardian Classifieds are placed online and are FREE for UCSD. Low cost classified placements for our print 
edition are also available to the UCSD campus and the public at   ucsdguardian.campusave.com
Guardian Classifieds are placed online and are FREE for UCSD. Low cost classified placements for our print edition are also available to the UCSD campus and the public at   
ucsdguardian.campusave.com
Complete the grid so
each row, column and3-by-3 box (in boldborders) containsevery digit, 1 to 9. Forstrategies on how tosolve Sudoku, visitwww.sudoku.org.uk
SOLUTION TO
SATURDAY’S PUZZLELevel:
1 2
34
© 2009 The Mepham Group. Distributed by
Tribune Media Services. All rights reserved.9/14/09Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies 
on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.ukLevel: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 123 4
Level: 123 4Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
Level:
12
34Level:
12
34Level: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 123 4
Level: 123 4Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
STUDENT HOUS ING
$500 - Single bedroom for 
rent in Mira Mesa (Mira Mesa). Up for rent is a single bed-room in 2 bed/2 bath Casas Apartments in Mira Mesa. Rent will be $500/month + Utilities ($50) with 500 dollar deposit. 7 month lease. The room is 12x11 in size with a big closet, unfurnished. Full access to kitchen, laundry on site.You will be living in the apartment with two other guys. Both are recent UCSD grads working full-time. Visit ucsdguardian.org/classifieds and reply online to Listing ID: 12271168
Roommate needed for 1st 
November. A room in 2 bed room/2 bath apartment is available to share with a Professional post doc at La Scala apartments in UTC area from 1st November as the cur -
rent room mate is moving out. Rent is $823 per month (all included). Internet and elec -tricity shared equally ($30-40/month). Visit ucsdguard-ian.org/classifieds and reply online to Listing ID: 12271083
Single bedroom with own 
bath, females only. 14’ x 10’ unfurnished bedroom with your own bathroom in a 2bd/2ba 950-sq ft condo in the gated Pines of La Jolla complex. Can easily fit a queen bed, dresser, and two desks. Looking for someone to take over my lease as soon as possible. Available for move-in starting on September 20th. Lease will end in July 2012. Visit ucsdguardian.org/classifieds and reply online to Listing ID: 12271036
Female roommate needed to 
share master bedroom at Costa Verde Towers! We are three 
fun and hardworking UCSD females looking for another friendly female roommate to share a large master bedroom at Costa Verde Towers and complete our apartment. The 
master bedroom can fit two people with plenty of extra room and also includes a walk in closet as well as a his/her vanity with attached bath-room. The whole apartment (on the 8th floor) includes three bedrooms and two full baths. Please feel free to con-tact us if you have any ques-tions! Visit ucsdguardian.org/classifieds and reply online to Listing ID: 11976685
FOR SALE
2007 - Toyota Yaris - $13491. Front Wheel Drive,Tires - Front 
All-Season,Tires - Rear All-Season, Wheel C overs,Steel 
Wheels,Compact Spare 
Tire,Power Steering,Front Disc/Rear Drum Brakes,Intermittent Wipers ,Cloth Seats,2nd 
Row Bench Seat,Adjustable Steering Wheel,A/C,Driver 
Vanity Mirror,Passenger Vanity Mirror. Visit ucsdguardian.org/classifieds and reply online to Listing ID: 12279384
‘01 Audi A4 1.8T Quattro. 
5-speed with low mileage - $6750. Low mileage & lots of fun to drive! 2001 Audi A4 1.8L 4-cyl. Turbo with quattro all-wheel drive & 5-speed manual transmission. 93k miles.Good/excellent condition. Well 
maintained & reliable. email: audilj@gmail.com
Two HP Pavilion dv4 laptops 
- $500. Hi, I’m selling two 2009 HP Pavilion dv4 lap -
tops, one white, one black. Both were bought from Best Buy for around $1200 each, still in great working condi-tion. Well maintained over the 
two years, no scratches on screen, few on outside. Visit ucsdguardian.org/classifieds and reply online to Listing ID: 12279790
Blink-182 Concert Tickets 
LAWN - $40 I have 12 Lawn Tix 
for the blink 182 concert. They are 40 a piece. Visit ucsdguard-ian.org/classifieds and reply online to Listing ID: 12266526
surf.t
COMING SOON TO LIBRARY WALK...
to.ucsd.edu
12 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2011 | WWW.UC SDGUARDIAN .ORG
:762,5
:<9-9,769;-69,*(:;
THURSDAY
H 65 L 50 FRIDAY
H 69 L 54
SATURDAY
H 57 L 49 SUNDAY
H 64 L 4905:0+,.(:7,9.(3365THURSDAY
Height:  4-7 ft.
Wind: 3-5 mph
Water Temp: 61 FFRIDAY
Height:  5-7 ft.
Wind: 2-9 mph
Water Temp: 61 F
SATURDAY
Height:  4-5 ft.
Wind: 5-17 mph 
Water Temp: 61 FSUNDAY
Height:  7-12 ft.
Wind: 3-14 mph 
Water Temp: 61 FLOW
$2.73
Arco, Chula Vista
407 E St. & 4th Ave.
HIGH
$3.50
Chevron, Paciﬁc Beach
1575 Garnet Ave. & Ingraham St.
*VTPJZ
5L^)\ZPULZZ
/LHK4LL[Z.YV\UK
3L[[LYZ[V[OL,KP[VY
+Y\[OLYZ
*SHZZPÄLKZ
:\KVR\
THURSDAY
SATURDAYFRIDAY
SUNDAY50./;>(;*/“Here’s your money back/ 
Here’s your punk rock back!"
By Angela Chen
News Editor
Student media heads are threatening legal 
action against A.S. President Utsav Gupta’ s for his 
Friday-afternoon decision to freeze all funding to student publications.
Gupta announced Friday morning that he 
wished to pull funding from controversial humor newspaper the Koala,  whose editor in chief made a racial slur on Student-Run T elevision the night before in reference to Black Student Union mem-bers protesting the Feb. 15 “Compton Cookout. ”
“W e’ve tried, throughout this year, to redo [the 
media guidelines], and essentially not fund [the Koala ], ” he said at an impromptu meeting. I don’t 
know if it’ll get rid of them, but on the part of A.S., we can defund them — we absolutely can defund them, and I believe we must defund them. ”
Gupta said he had the executive power to 
freeze media-org funding because the current allocation of money for media organizations vio-lates Section II of the A.S. Constitution. The sec-tion states the role of the council is “to create and execute programs which serve the collective inter-ests of the undergraduate population. ” According to Gupta, the current system — which has funded the Koala  since 1982— is hurting students, and therefore not serving the collective interest.  
Free speech organizations such as the 
Foundation for Individual Rights in Education a n d  A m e r i c a n  C i v i l  L i b e r t i e s  U n i o n  h a v e   MEDIA ORGS 
DEFEND FREE-SPEECH RIGHTS
By Ayelet Bitton
Associate News Editor
Two years after the grand opening 
of Price Center East, University 
Centers officials said they are in the 
final stages of filling the remaining 
store spaces with a bank, coffee shop, and hair salon, as they promised.
Price Center East opened in May 
2008, funded by the Price Center Expansion Referendum — a $39 quarterly student fee enacted in Spring Quarter 2003. Only five vendors have been installed in the space since its opening, leaving three vacant slots.
“The students wanted the best of 
both worlds, ” Assistant Vice  Chancellor of Student Life Gary Ratcliff said. “They wanted an expansion that was going to be large enough to serve the student body when we reached steady state enrollment, and they wanted the fee as low as possible. What that meant is there needed to be other sources of revenue to pay to operate the building, and retail was the answer. ”
Price Center East already has a 
number of  food retailers, such as Tapioca Express and Burger King. Two Years Later, PC East Starts to Fill Empty Lots
Price Center’s vacant retail 
spaces were originallydesignated to house a bank,coffee shop and hair salon.By Angela Chen
News Editor
Hundreds of students walked 
out of an administration-planned 
t e a c h - i n  y e s t e r d a y  m o r n i n g  t o   
attend a counter teach-in organized by the Black Student Union. 
The Feb. 24 Price Center protest 
began with a press conference held 
by the BSU, the student organiza-tion that declared campus climate to be in a “state of emergency” last Friday. The BSU has addressed the “toxic” environment with a rally and a list of 32 demands. BSU Chair David Ritcherson called for the UCSD chancellor cabinet to respond to the organization’s demands by March 4 — the same day as a systemwide protest against limited accessibility to higher edu-cation — with a “thorough, written timeline for immediate action. ” 
Press-conference speakers 
included history professor Daniel Widener, who applauded A.S. President Utsav Gupta for his recent decision to freeze funding for all 33 student media organizations, then asked administrators to disregard the current budget crisis in favor of meeting all the BSU’s demands. 
“We will not allow any discus-
sions of the budget crisis to affect >/,530),9;0,:*6330+,
Black Student Union
and supporters ditchuniversity teach-in to host speakers of their own.
See PRICEpage 2
JOHN  HANACEK/GUARDIANThree empty spaces — two on either side of the Sunshine Market, and one on the second 
floor by the Loft — will soon be filled with new student services.THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 25, 2010
WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGVOLUME XLII, ISSUE XXXVI
<-)+016?)43;7=<
63%NO
YES
32% I 
DON’T 
KNOW
5%DO YOU AGREE WITH 
A.S. PRESIDENT
UTSAV GUPTA’S
DECISION TO FREEZE
STUDENT-MEDIA
FUNDING?
OUT OF
133 VOTESWEB POLL
JOHN  HANACEK/GUARDIANBlack Student Union members held a counter teach-in on Feb. 24 to discuss the ‘Compton Cookout’ and institutional racism at UCSD.
See PROTEST
page 2
See FREEZEpage 2ERIK JEPSEN/GUARDIAN
OPINION
Guest
commentary calls forcampusunderstanding.Page 4
JAPANDROIDS  
       VANCOUVER NOISE-ROCK BAND  
    PAGE 7MONDAY , MARCH 29, 2010WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
VOLUME XLII, ISSUE XXXXI
:762,5 :762,5:<9-9,769;05:0+,
50./;>(;*/MONDAY
Height:  3-4 ft.
Wind: 8-10 mph
Water Temp: 62 FTUESDAY
Height:  4-7 ft.
Wind: 6-11 mph
Water Temp: 62 F
WEDNESDAY
Height:  6-8 ft.
Wind: 9-13 mph 
Water Temp: 62 FTHURSDAY
Height:  6-11 ft.
Wind: 1-14 mph 
Water Temp: 62 FLOW
$2.89
Quick Trip, El Cajon
596 N Mollison Ave. & I-8
HIGH
$3.89
Chevron, Point Loma
1704 Rosecrans St. & Nimitz Blvd.THURSDAY FRIDAY
MONDAY
H 73 L 64TUESDAY
H 63 L 54MONDAY TUESDAY.(:7,9.(3365
:<9-9,769;
50./;>(;*/
-69,*(:;
>,)7633
SHOULD THE UNIVERSITY 
PROVIDE HEALTH CARE FOR PRISONERS?
√  Yes
√  No
√  I don’t know:<590:,
:<5:,;6:39 A.M.
7:07 P.M.
WEDNESDAY
H 54 L 47THURSDAY
H 52 L 45
THURSDAYWEDNESDAY
WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG*VTPJZ
3PNO[Z:PYLUZ
([>P[»Z,UK
3L[[LYZ[V[OL,KP[VY
:P[L:LLU 
*SHZZPÄLKZ
:\KVR\BECOMING DR. BOSS-MAN
UNPAID LABOR IS THE HOTTEST NEW BULLET POINT
ON YOUR RESUME. PAGE 8
VOLUME XLIIISSUE XXXXI
ON YOUUR RE
S
UME.
PPPPPPPAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE  8888888888888888888888
campus climate. 
Sanchez said the leg-
islation would target not 
only hate speech — which includes racial slurs — but 
also “acts with intent to 
terrorize, ” the legal word-ing used by the university to describe a Feb. 25 inci-dent in which a noose was found hanging in Geisel 
Library.
“The legislation would Obama Cuts 
Banks from Loan Game/ZIL[;]M
=VQ^MZ[Q\aNWZ 5QTTQWV
By Hayley Bisceglia-Martin
News Editor
A rider bill attached to — and somewhat 
overshadowed by — President Barack Obama’s 
landmark health-care reform will remodel the 
student loan system by cutting out private lend-ers and setting aside billions more in federal dollars for financial aid.
Currently, the U.S. government provides 
money to banks or corporations which arrange loans for students, then collect interest at a profit. According to the 
Congressional Budget 
Office, bypassing private 
lenders and giving loan funds directly to students 
will save the federal gov-ernment $1 billion over the next year alone, and $62 bil-lion over the next 10 years.
The vast majority of 
that $62 billion will be reinvested in Pell Grants, $13 billion of which will be devoted to increasing stu-dent eligibility and avoiding a cap on the money students can receive. 
The additional funds 
will push the maximum 
award for the 2010-11 academic year from $5,350 to $5,500. The federal government is covering this increase and allowing for more like it by 2010 with $36 billion in additional aid.
Of the remaining $13 billion in government 
savings, $10 billion will go toward reducing the federal deficit and about $2.55 billion will go to 
institutions that serve minorities.
The larger health-care bill also affects stu-
dents with a provision that allows all Americans to stay on their parents’ health-care policy until age 26, instead of the more typical 19.
Readers can contact Hayley Bisceglia-Martin at 
hbiscegl@ucsd.edu.By Ayelet Bitton
Associate News Editor
The University of California 
will pay back $38 million in fees to 
students in professional programs, after a San Francisco Superior Court judge ruled on March 10 that the university had raised fees illegally from 2003 to 2007.
According to evidence present-
ed throughout the case, — Andrea 
Luquetta et. al v. Regents of the University of California — official 
university documents, including an 
online fee guide, stated that fees 
would not be increased for continu-ing students at any point throughout 
their period of enrollment. 
The court ruled that these mate-
rials constituted a contract, which the university then violated.
“The contract between the plain-
tiff students and the university included a binding commitment not to raise the professional degree fees for continuing students, ” Superior Court Judge John Munter said in a statement.
The ruling applies to nearly 
3,000 students who enrolled in UC professional schools — including law, business and medicine — before August 25, 2003.
Four students from schools such 
as the UCLA School of Law and UCSF School of Medicine contacted law firm Altshuler Berzon LLP in 2007 to take up their case against the university.
Danielle Leonard, who works 
for the firm, said that while fee increases may be necessary, students must be informed of the possibility of such increases before they go into effect. In this case, students were not notified
“The court concluded that the 
university had breached its contracts with the students for the price of their education, because the university had promised to keep the amount of the professional degree fee constant for the period of their enrollment, and then violated that promise, ” Leonard said.
Over the last several years, 
the university has raised fees for both undergraduate and graduate students systemwide to account for state budget cuts. 
Those affected by the case will 
receive up to $8,000, an amount that has sharply increased during <PM*QTT
\W*IV0I\M
Students move to outlaw hate speech on campus.
After repeated acts of 
racism rocked the UC campuses dur-
ing Winter Quarter, the UC Student Association 
— a group that aims to represent the the 10-cam-
pus university — is work-
ing with the UCSD Black Student Union to pass By Angela Chen s News Editor
See LAWSUITpage 7$49 BILLION
Amount added 
to Pell Grants
26
New age limit for children on parent’s health insurance$5,500
New maximum Pell Grant award
=+;,8ZWN
-`IUQVM[-IZ\PY]ISMQV+PQTM
By Kashi Khorasani
Staff Writer
Six months back, UCSD structural 
engineering professor Jose Restrepo 
was in Chile, ironically working on preventive earthquake measures. 
Cue the 8.8-magnitude earthquake 
See CHILEpage 2
ANYTHING
BUT CLOTHES
Students took a break from ﬁnals to participate in the quarterly undie run, which took place at midnight on March 18. Hundreds of scantily clad stressballs ran past CLICS Library, where a few overexcited participants smashed a window on the second ﬂoor.Defense attorney says university will contest ‘guilty’ ruling two years after losing similar case.
SeeBILLpage 7*(70;63/033
TIM WONG /GUARDIANlegislation banning hate 
speech on public college campuses in California. 
First proposed by 
UCSA President Victor Sanchez early this month, the legislation is a col-
laborative effort between 
the two groups. Sanchez brought the idea before UC officials during a series of meetings between UCSA 
and the UC Office of the President to discuss poten-tial ways of improving the 
PHILIP  RHIE//GUARDIANDisputes over how to use the SRC keeps both students and staff in limbo.
69+,9:-69>(2,505.
+VJ[VY»Z6YKLYZ!
THEY’RE WORTH GETTING USED TO. PAGE 6
THURSDAY , JANUARY 21, 2010WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
VOLUME XLII, ISSUE XXVI
By Hayley Bisceglia-Martin 
News Editor
The earthquake that hit the 
Haitian capital of Port-au-Prince 
on Jan. 12 — claiming an estimated 200,000 lives, according to the Pan American Health Organization — also took the life of 24-year-old UCSD gradu-ate and Arizona native Daniel Ryan Kloos.
Ryan, who 
went by his mid-dle name, was in Haiti visiting his 
sister Erin Kloos, age 27. She was one of four Americans volunteering at Friends of the Orphans, a subset of the children’s charity Nuestros Pequeños Hermanos.
At the time of his death, Ryan was 
at the Father W asson Center, a chil-dren’s hospital where his sister worked. When the 7.0 magnitude earthquake hit, five of the hospital’s seven sto-ries collapsed, killing both Ryan and another volunteer, Molly Hightower, age 22.  
Ryan graduated from Muir 
College in 2008 with a double major in Sociology and Biochemistry/ General Biology, and had just been accepted to two schools of osteopath-ic medicine, according to close friend and classmate Liz Costa.
“Once he had been accepted to 
one of the programs, he quit his job By Kashi Khorasani
Staff Writer
On Jan. 11, the California State 
Assembly Committee passed a bill aimed at allocating more funds to higher education with five affirma-tive votes and two negative votes. Bill AB 656, authored by Assemblyman Alberto Torrico (D–Fremont), will impose an excise tax on oil com-panies that extract oil and natural gas from the state’s land and water sources.
If passed by the California State 
Legislature, the bill would create the California Higher Education Endowment Corporation. The cor-poration would be run by represen- tatives from the California State University system, the University of California and community col-leges and would be responsible for allocating the money each year.
Earlier this 
month, the bill was amended to incur a 12.5-per-cent severance tax, as opposed to 
the previously proposed 9.9-percent tax. According to an analysis by the Assembly Committee on Revenue and Taxation, the tax will now be expected to raise $1.8 billion in 2010 and $2 billion in 2011. 
Prior to recent amendments, 
the bill would have sent 60 per-cent of revenue to the CSU sys-tem, 30 percent to the UC system and just 10 percent to community colleges. After the urging of the 
Faculty Association of California Community Colleges, however, the bill was rewritten and now directs 50 percent of its revenue to the CSU 
system, 25 percent to the UC sys-tem and 25 percent to community colleges.
“We have allowed oil companies 
in California to extract oil from our ground and we have failed to charge 
Daniel Ryan Kloos
UCSD Alumnus
After the grand opening of the 
Sustainability Resource Center last November, members of the Student Sustainability Collective and Campus 
Sustainability administrators have not yet come to an agreement over how to share the space.
According to SSC student director Rishi 
Ghosh, the center was conceived two years ago when students approached university adminis-trators with hopes to begin the project. When student activity fees were raised last Spring Quarter — providing the SSC with an addi-tional $2.34 per-student per-quarter for proj-ects and staff — SSC members were under the impression their new efforts would be housed by the collaborative space.
Since then, however, university staff and 
student leaders have disagreed on the role of students in the center — leaving the SSC with-out the opportunity to utilize the SRC on a 
consistent basis.“The spirit of the referendum, the way we 
advertised it, was that the funding was for students working right in the new SRC, ” A.S. President Utsav Gupta said. “That was the con-text in which we had all these discussions with the administration — until it totally flipped. It was a bait-and-switch. ”
According to the SRC’s Web 
site, its original intention was 
to “house UCSD’s sustainability staff and the student-funded and -run SSC. ”
As no form has yet been signed indicating 
an understanding of the two groups’ control of 
the center, however, only the CSS currently has full access the space.
In the months following the student-fee 
referendum, plans for the center were arranged verbally between students and staff. University 
UCSD graduate Daniel 
Ryan Kloos was killed while volunteering for a children’s hospital.)4=56=;
,1-;16
9=)3-:<:;(05()030;@9,:6<9*,*,5;,9
);+W]VKQT8TIKM[4WN\WV;XZQVO9]IZ\MZ.MM*ITTW\
By Angela Chen
News Editor
After more than six hours of debate, the A.S. 
Council voted 20-7-1 late Wednesday night to 
place the Loft referendum on the Spring Quarter election ballot. If approved by the student body, the proposal would raise student fees by $3.82 per 
student per quarter. The money would go toward art and music programming at the Loft.
The referendum requires that at least 29 per-
cent of the fees go to financial aid, that at least 80 percent of all events at the Loft be “pay as you can” for UCSD students and that undergraduates rep-resent at least 60 percent of the venue’s hiring staff. During yesterday’s meeting, the council dis-
cussed two models of the referendum — one sponsored by A.S. Associate Vice President of Academic Affairs and chair of the University Centers Advisory Board Jordan Taylor, and one sponsored by A.S. President Utsav Gupta. 
The primary difference between the two 
proposals was the intensity of A.S. Council oversight. 
Under Gupta’s proposal, the A.S. Council 
would create a student-majority Loft Governance B o a r d  t o  r e g u l a t e  t h e  v e n u e ’ s  b u d g e t  a l l o c a t i o n .   This board would include various members of Oil Tax 
May Fund 
Higher Education*()<+.,;*90:0:
The UC, CSU and community-collegesystems stand to split $1.8 billion in revenue.
:762,5
We just do it. We’ve really conditioned ourselves from years 
of playing; we can do it anywhere." 
                                                   JOHN FAMIGLIETTIHEALTH
PAGE 6 “:<9-9,769;
-69,*(:;
THURSDAY
H 59 L 49FRIDAY
H 55 L 45
SATURDAY
H 58 L 42SUNDAY
H 63 L 4205:0+,
*VTPJZ
5L^)\ZPULZZ
:\YM9LWVY[
3L[[LY[V[OL,KP[VY
*VUJLY[7YL]PL^
*SHZZPMPLKZ
:\KVR\50./;>(;*/.(:7,9.(3365
THURSDAY
Height:  2-5 ft.
Wind: 8-19 mph
Water Temp: 59 FFRIDAY
Height:  2-5 ft.
Wind: 9-13 mph
Water Temp: 59 F
SATURDAY
Height:  2-5 ft.
Wind: 8-12 mph 
Water Temp: 59 FSUNDAY
Height:  3-6 ft.
Wind: 1-5 mph 
Water Temp: 59 FLOW
$2.75
Qwik Korner, National City
3009 Highland Ave 91950
HIGH
$3.49
Kwik Stop, El Cajon
2410 Fletcher Pkwy & Garﬁeld Ave
12.5%
$3.8  BILL.
$950  MILL.PROPOSED 
SEVERANCE TAXTAX TALK
TOTAL RAISED 
BY 2011
TO UC SYSTEM
See LOFTpage 3See SRCpage 3
See OILpage 3SeeKLOOSpage 9OPINION
Next time, get 
their word in writing.AND WHITE RUSSIANS 
WITH THE DUDE. PAGE 6
LOCKED OUT
By Ayelet Bitton t Associate News EditorThough they were promised space, students lack access to the SRC.
KEVIN WU/GUARDIAN
If passed by the student body, the Loft referendum guarantees that at least 
80 percent of Loft events will be “pay as you can” for UCSD students. PHOTO ILLUSTRATION BY PHILIP RHIE & EMILY KU/GUARDIAN
THURSDAY
SATURDAYFRIDAY
SUNDAYTHURSDAY , JUNE 3, 2010WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
VOLUME XLII, ISSUE LX
:762,5 :762,5:<9-9,769;
50./;>(;*/
THURSDAY
Height:  5-6 feet
Wind: 2-6 mph
Water Temp: 66 FFRIDAY
Height:  5-6 feet
Wind: 1-8 mph
Water Temp: 66 F
SATURDAY
Height:  6-7 feet
Wind: 2-9 mph 
Water Temp: 66 FSUNDAY
Height:  6-7 feet
Wind: 2-7 mph 
Water Temp: 66 FLOW
$2.79
ARCO, Poway
12805 Poway Rd & Carriage Rd
HIGH
$3.86
76, Point Loma
1704 Rosecrans St. & Nimitz Blvd.THURSDAY FRIDAY
THURSDAY
H 70 L 60FRIDAY
H 72 L 62THURSDAY FRIDAY.(:7,9.(3365
50./;>(;*/
-69,*(:;
>,)7633:<590:,
:<5:,;5:41 A.M.
7:53 P.M.
SATURDAY
H 74 L 63SUNDAY
H 73 L 62SUNDAYSATURDAY
WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
THIS WAY OUT 
SENIOR SENDOFFSPAGE 10
05:0+,
:<9-9,769;*VTPJZ
5L^)\ZPULZZ;OL@LHYPU8\V[LZ:\TTLY4V]PL7YL]PL^:LUPVY:LUKVMMZ*SHZZPÄLKZ:\KVR\
√  Yes
√  No
√  I don’t knowSHOULD THE A.S. 
COUNCIL HAVE CLOSED THE GROVE CAFE?THE END
By Regina Ip
Associate News Editor
A week after A.S. Council first 
met to appoint the 2010-11 associ-
ate vice presidents, one of the three remaining positions is still unfilled — leaving the council to enter next year without a full cabinet of 10 AVPs in 
charge of managing various aspects of student life. 
On May 26, the council voted 
against appointing A.S. President W afa Ben Hassine’ s nominations for three A VP positions. The nominations of former Campuswide Senator Desiree Prevo for the A VP of Academic Affairs position, and former A VP of Local Affairs Aries Y umul for the A VP of College Affairs position were voted down, while the nomination of Eleanor Roosevelt College sophomore Arohi Sharma for the A VP of Student 
Advocacy position was tabled. 
On June 3, the council approved 
Prevo and Sharma to temporarily fill the Academic Affairs and Student Advocacy positions, respectively. They will carry out the AVP posi-tions until Week Four of Fall Quarter at which point applications for the position will reopen. 
The position of AVP of College 
Affairs was not discussed and will not be filled until Fall Quarter. 
According to Ben Hassine, all 
three positions were tabled at the Campus Affairs committee meeting, which is held prior to the council meeting. From that, the Academic Affairs and Student Advocacy posi-tions were pulled out of committee to be discussed at the meeting. 
Ben Hassine said the positions 
were tabled — and then voted down —  because councilmembers dis-agreed with the process of choosing members for the selection commit-tee. The selection committee consists of the president, the outgoing AVP and three to four council senators.
See AVP,page 7In less than two hours last night, the A.S. Council voted 17-2 to shut down the Grove Cafe, effectively ending a 24-year saga that 
included numerous attempts to revitalize the struggling eatery. 
The decision comes a year after the previous council voted last June 
to continue operating the coffee shop, which was $140,000 in debt at 
the time. However, despite ongoing renovations and a much-hyped reopening this Winter Quarter, the business has increased its debt over $35,000, to a total of nearly $180,000. 
According to both Vice President of Finance and Resources 
Andrew Ang and Associate Vice President of Enterprise Operations Brian McEuen, the Grove would need to make a daily profit of $925 to cover its operating costs alone. However, since reopening in January, By Connie Qian
Senior Staff Writer
Over 11,000 nurses from five 
UC medical centers — including the UCSD medical centers — will strike on June 10 to protest unsafe nurse-to-patient ratios, the National Nurses United announced last Friday.
“One of the things we’ve been ask-
ing is that the [nurse-to-patient] ratio should be maintained at all times, ” UCSD Medical Center - Hillcrest reg-istered nurse Janice Webb said. “We’re asking for break-relief nurses. That’s a nurse that comes in and watches your patient while you’re on break. ”
The protest, slated to be the largest 
nurse strike in U.S. history, will also include an additional 14,000 nurs-es from California and Minnesota, totaling 25,000 participants.
California law requires hospitals 
to maintain at least one nurse for every three to five patients, depend-ing on the care the patients receive. The union said it wants to mandate stronger enforcement of these laws 
and establish safe ratios at all times. 
According to Webb, the medical 
centers do not have enough nurses to attend the patients.
 “We’ve been having meetings 
with hospitals that say they already have charge nurses, but realistical-ly they can’t maintain the ratio on breaks, ” she said. “ A lot of times when the charge nurses [or nurses who supervise] watch, there are still more nurses needed — just someone to help out. ”
However, in an online statement, 
the UC Office of the President con-tended that such a strike is without legitimate cause.
“The university considers this 
action unlawful, a violation of good-faith bargaining requirements and a clear violation of the parties’ con-tract, ” UCOP said in their statement.
The strike will also attempt to 
secure the nurses’ retirement benefits to make sure neither politicians nor the health industry can easily rescind them.
“The other thing we’re concerned 
about is the pension and our health benefits, ” Webb said. “Things are get-ting expensive now, and they’re trying to look at ways to cut costs. That’s going to affect people, and we want After 24 years on campus, the ailing Grove Cafe 
will close its doors for good. By Ayelet Bitton
See GROVE,page 7Nurses 
Plan to  Strike
See NURSES, page 3After medical 
administrators reject proposed staff increases, union prepares to react with protest.
JOHN  HANACEK/GUARDIAN
:(=05.;/,.96=,:;<+,5;*6<5*03*<;:36::,::/<;:+6>5,(;,9@
FROM FML
TO FLOWERS
A crowd of students gave  ﬂowers to Mary,  an employee at the Burger King in  Price Center East, yesterday. The event beganbecause of a post on UCSDFML.com  that broughtattention to Mary’s work.);+W]VKQT0QZM[<MUX-UXTWaMM[
GROVE CAFE’S TOTAL DEBT 
DAILY PROFIT GROVE NEEDS TO BREAK EVEN
NUMBER OF DAYS, SINCE REOPENING, GROVE EARNED $925
AVERAGE PROFIT GROVE MAKES DAILY$177,920.78
$925
2
$525BY THE NUMBERS
PHOTOS BY ANDREW OH/GUARDIANTHURSDAY , APRIL 4, 2011 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG VOLUME XLIII, ISSUE XLIII
SPOKEN SPOKEN SURF REPORT NIGHT WATCH
MONDAY
Height:  4 ft.
Wind: 3-7 mph
Water Temp: 64 FTUESDAY
Height:  4 ft.
Wind: 5-7 mph
Water Temp: 64 F
WEDNESDAY
Height:  4 ft.
Wind: 2-7 mph 
Water Temp: 64 FTHURSDAY
Height:  4-7 ft.
Wind: 3-6 mph 
Water Temp: 64 FLOW
$3.89
Costco, Chula Vista
895 East H S.t near Tierra Del Rey
HIGH
$4.69
76, Point Loma
1704 Rosecrans St. & Nimitz Blvd.THURSDAY FRIDAYMONDAY
H 72 L 56TUESDAY
H 68 L 56 MONDAY TUESDAYGAS PER GALLON SURF REPORT NIGHT WATCH FORECAST WEB POLL
ARE YOU PLEASED WITH THE SUN GOD LINEUP?
√  Yes
√  No
√  I don’t knowSUNRISE
SUNSET6:33  A.M.
7:11  P .M.WEDNESDAY
H 64 L 54THURSDAY
H 61 L 51 THURSDAY WEDNESDAY WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGComics ..................................2
Lights and Sirens ...................3
Endorsement Issue ................4
Candidate Profiles .................8
Classifieds ...........................12
Sudoku ................................12
Sports ..................................16By Jonathan Kaslow
S/t.sc/a.sc/f.sc/f.sc W/r.sc/i.sc/t.sc/e.sc/r.sc 
Students from 50 states and 90 countries congregated on 
campus for the Clinton Global Initiative University this week-
end, held April 1 to 3. /T_he conference is devoted to developing and implementing projects (called “commitments”) to global issues, such as poverty, pollution, LGBT rights and college af-fordability.  
About 1,200 students entered the conference with individ-
ual commitments, 200 of which were from UCSD.  Students were required to apply to be participate.
/T_he Clinton Global Initiative is part of the Clinton Foun-
dation, founded by former U.S. president Bill Clinton in 2005.  Now hosting its fourth conference, the CGIU has been to uni-versities in New Orleans, Texas and Miami.  
Clinton was on hand for the weekend’s event, and other 
guests included Qualcomm CEO Paul Jacobs, actor Sean Penn and singer Mandy Moore.  Jacobs participated in the opening session, while Moore spoke at the /f_irst workshop on global health and Penn appeared at the closing session. Students were also able to attend a variety of panels and workshops to prepare them to ful/f_ill their commitment to face issues such as popula-tion growth, the environment and global health.
“Y ou believe you can make a diﬀerence, and we’re going 
to help you, ” Clinton said at the April 1 opening session. “/T_he most important question is ‘how do you propose to do it [com-mitment]’ and college students are more prone for that ques-tion. ”
CGI U Campus Representative Melissa Etehad, who at-
tended CGI U in Miami last year, expressed her excitement over the event’s international scope.
“It’s an international event for UCSD, and imagine 200 stu-
dents changing the world, ” Etehad said. “I am so excited for the 3,700 ATTEND CLINTON OPENING SESSION
See CLINTON, page 7By Regina Ip
N/e.sc/w.sc/s.sc E/d.sc/i.sc/t.sc/o.sc/r.sc
Carlsbad resident Julio Angel Garcia-Puente, 50, 
will go to trial for murder and arson charges following a hearing held March 30. He is suspected of killing his estranged wife — 38-year-old Lorena Gonzalez, whose body was found in a burning vehicle in the P701 parking lot next to the UCSD baseball field.
At the preliminary hearing to determine if probable 
cause exists to indict Garcia-Puente, San Diego 
Superior Court Judge Jeffrey Fraser concluded that the prosecutors provided sufficient evidence for the case to stand trial, the San Diego 
Union-Tribun e reported on March 
30.
San Diego firefighters testified 
that they arrived in the parking lot 
at approximately 8:30 p.m., when they 
found the vehicle in flames. According to the Union-
Tribune , firefighter Justin Price said that when he 
opened one of the car doors, he saw a head and an arm. Investigators determined that the vehicle was intentionally set on fire.
According to the Union-Tribune , deputy district 
attorney Nicole Rooney testified that Gonzalez died of strangulation, as three bones in her neck were Murder Suspect in 
Burning Vehicle Case Will Face Trial
PHOTO  BY ANDREW  OH/GUARDIANAfter five months of planning, A.S. Concerts and Events 
Media Liaison Oliver Zhang sat down with the Guardian Sunday afternoon to leak the lineup for the annual Sun 
God Festival.
“For me, it’s the best lineup we’ve ever had, ” Zhang said of the 
May 13 festival. 
Rapper Wiz Khalifa will be headlining the main stage, while 
Jesse F. Keeler (JFK) of electronic music duo MSTRKRFT will be the main act at the dance tent. 
Best Coast, Mike Posner, Jimmy Eat World and Crystal Castles 
will also play the main stage. The support for the dance tent — as well as one more act for the main stage — will be revealed once the artist contracts are completed.
“Not all contracts are fully executed, ” Zhang said. “When we 
release something we want to make sure that the contracts are fully valid, just in case they back out at the last minute. ”
Associate Vice President of Concerts and Events Brian Wong 
said he is proud of the lineup.
“We knew coming into this year that it would be hard to top 
the success of 2010, ” he said in an email. “To make this year’s BY ARIELLE SALLAI 
SENIOR STAFF WRITER
See SUN GOD, page 7WIZ KHALIFA TO HEADLINE SUN GOD 
THURSDAY , APRIL 4, 2011
 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
 VOLUME XLIII, ISSUE XLIII
Julio Angel 
Garcia-Puente
See MURDER, page 3
PHOTO  BY JOHN  HANACEK /GUARDIANMAIN STAGE
WIZ KHALIFA
CRYSTAL CASTLES
JIMMY EAT WORLD
MIKE POSNER
BEST COASTDANCE TENT
JFK OF MSTRKRFT
ADDITIONAL PENDING 
ANNOUNCEMENTTHE RACE IS ON.  THE EDITORIAL BOARD MAKES ITS PICKS FOR NEXT YEAR’S A.S. COUNCIL. PAGE 4.
iNSIDE
:762,5 :762,5
:<9-9,769;
05:0+,50./;>(;*/
MONDAY
Height:  4 feet
Wind: 2-6 mph
Water Temp: 66 FTUESDAY
Height:  3-4 feet
Wind: 3-5 mph
Water Temp: 66 F
WEDNESDAY
Height:  3-4 feet
Wind: 3-7 mph 
Water Temp: 66 FTHURSDAY
Height:  5-6 feet
Wind: 4-8 mph 
Water Temp: 66 FLOW
$2.89
On the Go Gas, El Cajon
500 N 2nd St. and E. Madison Ave.
HIGH
$3.62
Chevron, Paciﬁc Beach
1565 Garnet Ave. and Ingraham St.THURSDAY FRIDAYMONDAY
H 66 L 46TUESDAY
H 68 L 50
MONDAY TUESDAY.(:7,9.(3365:<9-9,769;50./;>(;*/-69,*(:;
>,)7633
DID YOU ENJOY DRAKE’S 
PERFORMANCE AT THE SUN GOD FESTIVAL?
√  Yes
√  No
√  I don’t know:<590:,
:<5:,;5:47  A.M.
7:43  P.M.
WEDNESDAY
H 62 L 48THURSDAY
H 69 L 50
THURSDAYWEDNESDAYWWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG*VTPJZ
:\U.VK7OV[VZ)LOPUK;OL*V\U[LY3L[[LYZ[V[OL,KP[VY*S\I/VWWPUN *SHZZPÄLKZ:\KVR\
By Jake Boissonault 
Contributing Writer
“Fiercely independent” student 
radio station KSDT has given up on plans to obtain an FM frequency. Station managers are now looking to build a radio tower to pursue an AM frequency instead.
KSDT station co-manager 
Meredith Wong said that the AM tower would cost approximately $100,000 and that she hoped it could be located in a central area of campus — although she was unsure where that would be. 
“We’re really serious about it, 
but we haven’t started much of the research, ” Wong said. 5,>>(=,
See TOWERpage 12
/W^:MTMI[M[;\I\M*]LOM\*()<+.,;*90:0:
By Regina Ip
Associate News Editor
Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger 
presented his revised 2010-11 state budget last week, a plan that includes a new round of fund-ing increases for public colleges, but that suggests cutting $3.7 bil-lion from health-care services that impact low-income families who depend on state welfare programs. 
The suggested allocations to 
the University of California are nearly identical to the ones from Schwarzenegger’s January propos-al, including the restoration of the $305 million cut last year and an additional $51.3 million in finan-cial aid toward the 5,121 eligible students in the system who are not currently being funded. However, the governor’s newest budget would negate his January proposal 
to cut $111.8 million set aside to a c c o m m o d a t e  g r o w i n g  e n r o l l m e n t   
in the UC and CSU systems. 
In order to absorb California’s 
$19.1 billion budget deficit, other services would suffer major cuts — including a proposed $3.7 billion from in health care, that would cut the Medi-Cal program for the poor, along with state in-home support for the disabled. In addi-tion, the budget takes into account Proposition 98 — which passed in 1988 and guarantees a minimum pool of money for schools. Under 
See FUNDINGpage 7
555555555555555,,,,,,,,,55555,,555555,,55,,,55555555,,,,,,555555555,,,555555,55555555555555555555,,5555555,,55,,,5555,,555555555,,55,5555,,,,5555,5,,,,,,,,5555,,,,,5555,,,,,,,,,,555,,,,,,,,,55,,,,,,5555,,,,,,,555,,,,,,55,,5555,,,,,,,>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>(>(>(>(>(>(>(>(>(>(>(>((((((((((>(>>((>(>((>((((((((((>(((>>(((========,=,=,=,=,=,=,=,==,======,=,=,=====,,========,==,===,=,=,=,=,=======,=,,=========,=====,====,=,=,==,=,==,=,,==,=,,,,=,=,==,=,,=,,=====,,,,,,==,,=,,,,,==,,,,,,,=,=,,,MONDAY , MAY 17, 2010
WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
This year’ s Sun God Festival — with acts like B.o.B, Relient K, Michelle Branch and headliner Drake — attracted a packed house on May 14. For the second time in Sun God history, all 16,500 student wristbands and 3,500 guest tickets sold out.      In 2008, the first time this happened, tickets 
didn’t sell out until the day before. This year, all tickets sold out by 2:30 p.m. on Friday, at which time students were turned away.
According to Associate Vice President of 
Concerts and Events Alex Bramwell — who organized this year’ s Sun God Festival — the sell-out was due to the popularity of the event’ s leading acts.
“W e get complaints and yelled at when stu-
dents can’t bring their guests, but at the same time, we get yelled at and complaints when the students can’t bring themselves — so finding 
a good balance between those two is tough, ” Bramwell said. “W e had the same numbers as last year. It just turned out this year to be more popular of an event; more students wanted to come. ”
At the 2008 Sun God Festival — when 
students wristbands were distributed for the 
entire week leading up to the event — tickets ran out on Thursday, leading students to pur-chase all the leftover guest tickets for them-selves that Friday. 
In 2009, students waited in line for up to 
four hours on the morning of the festival to receive their wristbands. Despite the crowds, however, over 1,000 of last year’ s wristbands went unclaimed. 
See SUN GODpage 3Sun God Hits Capacity
Students turned away from annual festival on RIMAC Field
for second time in its 27-year history. 
By Hayley Bisceglia-Martin
),:;+(@6-;/,@,(9

ERIK JEPSEN /GUARDIAN65(9633
ERIK JEPSEN /GUARDIANERIK JEPSEN /GUARDIAN
WRISTBANDS
GUEST TICKETS2010
SOLD OUT
7,500 EXTRA2009 2008 2007
1,000 EXTRA
SOLD OUTSOLD OUT SOLD OUT SOLD OUT*
SOLD OUT*[\]LMV\[NWZKML\WJ]a\PMZMUIQVQVOO]M[\\QKSM\[IN\MZ_ZQ[\JIVL[[WTLW]\3;,<:ILQW
8TIV[\W.QTM
NWZ3
)5<W_MZ
Station banks on A.S. 
Council approval forits latest attempt toget on the air. 
Makeshift carts raced in the seventh annual Junkyard Derby on the day of the Sun God Festival.The final budget proposal from the governor puts education and statewelfare at odds.VOLUME XLII, ISSUE LV
the 
guardian is hiring.
    LEARN MORE AT OUR RECRUITMENT MEETING
ON FRIDAY, SEPT. 23 AT 5:30 P.M.  ON THE 
SECOND FLOOR OF THE STUDENT CENTER (ABOVE HI THAI) 
    QUESTIONS? EMAIL jobs@ucsdguardian.orgOR VISIT US ONLINE AT www.ucsdguardian.org/jobs
DON’T FORGET TO PICK UP A COPY OF THE GUARDIAN ON CAMPUS STANDS EVERY MONDAY AND THURSDAY!WRITING PHOTOGRAPHY LAYOUT DESIGN ADVERTISING
                COPY READING ART/ILLUSTRATION MARKETING GRAPHICS
read between the lines.FREE PIZZA14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2011 | WWW.UC SDGUARDIAN .ORG
way.
Coming off a tremendous postseason run 
that saw the Tritons come just short of a NCAA 
Division II National Championship last year, Armstrong said the team is eager for the new season.
“I’m excited by what I’ve seen so far this 
year, ” Armstrong said. “Our passing and cre-ativity is outstanding, and we’re not a second-half team anymore. We’re starting and finish-ing our games, and we’re a lot stronger on the ball. We have a lot of talent coming in this year, we have an incredibly deep bench and the subs coming off are always raising the level of play. ” 
UCSD is showing no signs of fatigue: Six 
games into the new season and the No. 4 Tritons remain undefeated. 
Kicking off their campaign with a trip up 
north, UCSD played Western Washington to a 0-0 draw and then beat perennial power-houses No. 10 Seattle Pacific 2-0.
The Tritons then headed back down to 
Southern California to open conference play, facing off against the only two other nation-ally ranked squads in the CCAA, No. 10 Cal State Los Angeles and No. 19 Cal State San Bernardino.
UCSD took a scrappy 1-0 win against 
CSULA on Sept. 3. 
The only goal came in the third minute 
when McTigue headed in a corner kick from Johnson, UCSD’s deadball specialist. 
On Sept. 9, the Tritons drew 1-1 against 
CSUSB with an unassisted goal from Callahan.
The following week, UCSD took down 
CCAA South Division newcomers San Francisco State 2-1 in a hard fought overtime win, and in the same weekend blew out Cal Poly Pomona 4-0.
“Right now, we’re taking each game one 
game at a time, ” Armstrong said. “Our past success doesn’t matter this season. But I think if we continue to keep improving, we’ll go far. ”
The Tritons’ next match is slated for Friday, 
Sept. 23 at the Home Depot Center against Southern California rivals CSU Dominguez Hills. 
UCSD will then head back home for the 
first home game of the season on Sunday, Sept. 25 against CSU San Bernardino.
Readers can contact Rachel Uda at ruda@ucsd.
edu.
▶ W. SOCCER, fromÊpageÊ16ERIK JEPSEN /GUARDIAN  FILE
With a 4-0-2 record, the Tritons are looking to continue their undefeated run as they face off against CSU Dominguez Hills at the Home Depot Center on Sept. 23.Nationally Ranked Tritons Remain Undefeated in Their First Six MatchesTHE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2011 | WWW.UC SDGUARDIAN .ORG 15
60,000 eyes & other good reasons.
Call 858-534-3467 to reserve your spot!
ucsdguardian.org
Why Advertise in
the Guardian?
Reserve
for next
quarter!MEN’S SOC CER PREVIEW
MICHELLE  JACONETTE /GUARDIAN  FILE
 The men’s soccer team will look to improve on its 3-3 overall record this week with an away game against CSU Dominguez Hills.
By Rachel Uda
Sports Editor
MEN’S SOCCER — The core of the men’s soccer team has returned 
to the pitch for the 2011-2012 campaign. 
Head coach Jon Pascale’s squad is looking to improve their 8-3-6 
overall record from last season, a campaign which proved to be as exhilarating as it was frustrating. 
Going without a win for their first six matches, the Tritons then 
went on an inspired eight-game undefeated streak, during which they drew against nationally -ranked CSU San Bernardino and upset No. 14 Chico State in a stunning double overtime victory.
However, the deficit the Tritons found themselves in after their 
rocky start to the season proved insurmountable, and they narrowly missed a post-season berth.
This season, Pascale has made a few adjustments to his starting 
eleven. Stalwart junior defender Harris Rabin is filling in the gap left by graduating hard-nosed fullback Jared Kukura — captain and All-American second team selection. 
He is accompanied in the back line by sophomores Cory 
Wolfrom, Alec Arsht and Gavin Lamming. 
They sit in front of sophomore goalkeeper Josh Cohen, who saw 
limited playing time last season as a freshman, but has played every minute of every game so far.
Junior Alex Portela continues to control the play in the midfield with sophomore Andrew Keimach sitting in behind. Pacey juniors Kian Malek and Adam Zernik have returned to run the widths, while up top, the Tritons will look to sophomore Andrew Ball and junior Evan Walker for offense. 
So far the Tritons are 3-3 overall, splitting their only two non-
conference games, beating Cal Baptist 2-1 and then dropping a game 0-1 to Saint Martin’s. 
UCSD opened league play on Sept. 9, losing 0-1 to CSU Los 
Angeles. In their next match, the Tritons came from behind, scor-ing two goals within the span of three minutes to beat CSU San Bernardino 2-1.
The Tritons then traveled to San Francisco, taking a 1-0 win 
from SFSU. In a back-and-forth contest, UCSD broke the draw after Portela scored off a penalty granted in the 88th minute. Two days later the Tritons fell 3-0 to Cal Poly Pomona.
“ At this point in the season the most important thing for our 
team is that we keep improving every day, ” assistant coach Eric Bucchere said. “We have a diligent and motivated group, and if we stay focused and humble the sky is the limit. ”
The Tritons will face CSU Dominguez Hills in their next match 
on Friday, Sept. 23 at the Home Depot Center. 
UCSD is scheduled to play its first home game on Sunday, Sept. 
25 against CSU San Bernardino.
Readers can contact Rachel Uda at ruda@ucsd.edu.MEN’S SOCCER 2011-12
2010 Record:  8-4-6 overall (8-3-5 
in CCAA)
Starting 11: Josh Cohen, Harris 
Rabin, Gavin Lamming, Cory Wul-frum, Alec Arsht, Andrew Keimach, Alex Portela, Kian Malek, Adam Zernik, Evan Walker, Sam Ball.
Bottom Line: Already four games 
into conference play, the Tritons seem hampered by changes in personnel. They will need to work the kinks out quick in order to remain competitive for a playoﬀ berth.SPORTSRACHEL UDA
sports @ucsdguardian.orgCONTACT THE EDITOR16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2011 | WWW.UC SDGUARDIAN .ORG
   MEN’S WATER POLO
MEN’S/WO MEN’S SOCCER
WOMEN’S VOLLEYBALL     9/22
    9/23    
     9/25
     9/23     9/24VS LOYOLA MARYMOUNTAT CSU DOMINGUEZ HILLSVS CSU SAN BERNARDINOVS CAL STATE STANISLAUSVS CHIC O STATEUPC OMING UCSD GAMES
FALL SEASON PREVIEW
WOMEN’S SOCCER     MEN’S SOCCER
By RACHEL UDA  • Sports Editor
Photo By Kevin Wu • Guardian  File
Cassie Callahan 
Center Midﬁelder
Shelby Wong
Winger
Kristin Armstrong 
Goal Keeper
Hayley Johnson 
Defender
Ellen Wilson 
Defender
Sarah McTigue 
Forward
Gabi Hernandez 
Forward
Anne Wethe 
Center Midﬁelder
Danielle Dixon 
Center Midﬁelder
Jessica Wi
Winger
Sara Spaventa 
DefenderWith a 4-0-2 record, the No. 4 
ranked women’s soccer team is off to their best start since 
2007, and with 10 out of their 11 starters back from last season, the Tritons look as dangerous as ever. /uni00A0/uni00A0/uni00A0/uni00A0 All-American senior Kristin Armstrong has returned to tend the net for theTritons. 
In her third year as the keeper of 
choice for head coach Brian McManus, Armstrong will look to anchor the Triton defense. 
She is joined in the back by vet-
eran defenders, senior Sara Spaventa and juniors Ellen Wilson and Hayley Johnson. /uni00A0/uni00A0/uni00A0Junior midfielder Jessica Wi and senior midfielder Shelby Wong are continuing to run the widths for the Tritons, while junior Danielle Dixon and senior captain Annie Wethe — 2011 All-CCAA first team selection — are also continuing their tenures in the middle. 
They will be joined in the midfield 
by freshman midfielder Cassie Callahan.
As the only underclassman to crack 
the starting eleven, Callahan serves as the replacement for graduate Lisa Bradley, who earned All-American honors in her junior and senior seasons. 
Callahan — recently named CCAA 
player of the week — is making a seam-less transition and has already notched three goals for the Tritons in her past three matches.
Junior Gabi Hernandez and senior 
captain Sarah McTigue are sitting up top for UCSD. 
The duo has proved lethal for the 
Tritons thus far. 5’10” junior Hernandez is a constant threat in the air, while McTigue — who was named to the All-West Region Second Team last season — has already netted two goals.
Rostering 25 out of a maximum 26 
players, the depth of the squad provides a number of choices for McManus and insurance for a team that has not had much trouble in the way of injuries any-
See W. SOCCER, page 15The nationally ranked UCSD 
Women’s Soccer team 
remains undefeated in its ﬁrst 
six matches and is looking to 
continue an unbeaten streak 
into conference play.