MONDAY , NOVEMBER 7, 2011 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG VOLUME 45, ISSUE 15
IN THE MOOD FOR MUSIC. PAGE 7
A.S.ÊCOUNCIL
A.S. FAI LS 
TO IMPEACH 
SENAT OR FOR 
ABSENCES
BY REBE CCA HO RWITZ
Associate News Editor
A.S. Council attempted to 
impeach Marshall College Senator 
Summer Perez at its Nov. 2 meeting because she exceeded her unexcused absence limit. Her unexcused absences revealed gaping holes in the attendance policy. 
The impeachment failed, with 
councilmembers voting 17-9-1.
A.S. Council only allows three 
unexcused absences, and Perez had five. 
Three of the meetings Perez 
missed were all on Oct. 19. Council holds three meetings each Wednesday evening from 4 p.m. - 10 p.m. If councilmembers miss all three meetings held on Wednesdays and do not excuse their absences, they will have used their three unexcused absences in one night.
Perez said she has been sick the 
past few months and she had her appendix removed last Thursday, Oct. 27. 
Similar issues with the attendance 
policy arose last year. The previous Arts and Humanities Senator Shunya Wade had 19.5 unexcused absences last year and A.S. Council spent an hour in closed session deciding whether or not Wade should be impeached. Her defense had been that she had class and had emailed someone from council earlier in the quarter, but she later found out she emailed the wrong person. She was not impeached. A.S. Council’s main issue with the attendance policy in the past was being able to hold members accountable for their absences. 
Perez said the attendance policy 
was a big issue discussed during the meeting. She said A.S. Council acknowledged that there were problems with the policy.
“It’s a little contradictory in my 
eyes — you would agree that the bylaws are broken — yet we’re still going to operate under them because they’re there, ” Perez said.
Sixth College Senator Cody 
Marshall said that one of the biggest problems in the attendance policy is that there is no way to excuse absences retroactively. He used the example of a councilmember fainting due to low blood pressure on a Wednesday afternoon; the A.S. Council’s attempt to 
impeach Muir College Senator Summer Perez failed in a 17-9-1 vote.
See SENATOR,Ê page 3Left: Students 
walk a tight rope 
on a sunny day in 
between Library 
Walk and Price 
Center on Thurs. 
Nov. 3.
 Right: A surfer 
enjoys some waves 
in Oceanside  on 
Tue. Nov. 1 just 
before this week’s 
storm.
JAVIER  ARMSTRONG /GUARDIANCALM BEFORE 
THE STORM
BRIAN  MONROE /GUARDIAN
SPOKEN SPOKEN SURFÊREPORTINSIDE
NIGHTÊWATCH MONDAY
Height: 5 ft.
Wind: 3-10 mph
Water Temp: 62 FTUESD AY
Height: 3-5 ft.
Wind: 4 mph
Water Temp: 62 F
WEDNESD AY
Height: 3 ft.
Wind: 4-7 mph 
Water Temp: 62 FTHURSD AY
Height: 3 ft.
Wind: 2-5 mph 
Water Temp: 62 FLOW
$3.66
Unbranded, Chula Vista
3733 Main St. & Mace St.
HIGH
$4.25
Shell, San Diego - West3353 India St. & Vine St.MONDAY
H 60 L 44TUESDAY
H 63 L 46GASÊPERÊGALLON SURFÊREPORT NIGHTÊWATCH FORECASTsSPOKEN
WEDNESDAY
H 69 L 49THURSDAY
H 67 L 52
BirdlandÊ.................................2
LightsÊ&ÊSirensÊ......................3AtÊWitÕsÊEndÊ...........................4LettersÊtoÊtheÊEditorÊ...............5MoodÊMusicÊ..........................6SudokuÊ..................................9SportsÊ..................................12
MONDAY TUESDAY
It’s certainly not our intent to 
push anybody somewhere where 
they’re uncomfortable with it.”
GERT  LANCKRIET
Assistant Professor
UCSD Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering“
WEDNESDAY THURSDAY
Heavy
Costs
forÊLow
GradesFINANCIALÊAIDÊÊÊFEDERALÊLAWÊCHANGESÊFINANCIALÊAIDÊELIGIBILITY
New academic qualifications for 
federal financial aid students could affect 
over 70 percent of UCSD students.
BY NICOLE CHAN
Associate News Editor
Students who do not take 36 units 
a year and keep a minimum 2.0 GPA will lose their federally fund-ed financial aid, such as Pell Grants 
and Federal Loans, due to new federal regulations from the U.S. Department of Education.
Program Integrity 
Regulations, effective July 1, 2011, are designed to ensure that only eligible stu-dents receive aid, accord-ing to the U.S. Department of Education website. The 
new law eliminates academic probation entirely. Previously, students with a GPA lower than 2.0 but at least 1.5 were placed on academic probation, an academic term in which students could raise their GPA to minimum requirements. 
Muir College Senator Elizabeth Garcia 
brought up the new law at the A.S. Council meeting on Nov. 2. Garcia, also a house advisor, was instructed to spread the news about the law by Muir College Assistant Dean of Student Affairs Ann Hawthorne.
“Before, to be eligible, you had to com-
plete the 36 units a year and keep a 2.0 GPA, ” Garcia said. “If you did below a 2.0 GPA or didn’t finish the unit requirement, you would be placed on academic proba-tion. Now if you fall below a 2.0 GPA or do not complete 36 units a year, you get no financial aid, period. ”
In conjunction with the regulations, 
starting Nov. 1, all colleges that receive federal aid are required to put a net price calculator on their websites for prospec-tive students. The calculators are intended to provide a close estimate of what stu-dents will owe after need-based aid and merit-based aid are given. /uni00A0
According to a document from the 
campus financial aid office released on June 28, 2011, the U.S. Department of Education requires that students must maintain “satisfactory academic progress” (SAP) standards in order to receive feder-
127
Dollar amount in 
millions of ﬁnancial aid UCSD students received last year.
2.0
GPA students must 
maintain to secure federal ﬁnancial aid.15,808
UCSD students with federal ﬁnancial aid.
OPINION
Check out 
an editorial on this new law in the next issue. 
See AID,Ê page 336
Number of units a 
student must take annually to receive ﬁnancial aid.TheÊ UCSDÊ GuardianÊ isÊ publishedÊ MondaysÊ andÊ
ThursdaysÊduringÊtheÊacademicÊyearÊbyÊUCSD ÊstudentsÊ
andÊ forÊ theÊ UCSDÊ community.Ê ReproductionÊ ofÊ thisÊnewspaperÊ inÊ anyÊ form,Ê whetherÊ inÊ wholeÊ orÊ inÊ part,ÊwithoutÊ permissionÊ isÊ strictlyÊ prohibited.Ê ©Ê 2011,Ê allÊrightsÊreserved.ÊTheÊUCSDÊGuardianÊisÊnotÊresponsibleÊforÊtheÊreturnÊofÊunsolicitedÊmanuscriptsÊorÊart.ÊTheÊviewsÊexpressedÊhereinÊdoÊnotÊnecessarilyÊrepresentÊtheÊopin-ionsÊofÊtheÊUCSDÊGuardian,ÊtheÊUniversityÊofÊCaliforniaÊorÊAssociatedÊStudents.ÊTheÊUCSDÊGuardianÊisÊfundedÊbyÊadvertising.ÊGuardianÊoutÊthereÊstrugglinÕ
GeneralÊEditorial:Ê858-534-6580Ê
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News:Ê news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion:Ê opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports:Ê sports@ucsdguardian.org
Focus:Ê focus@ucsdguardian.org
Leisure:Ê leisure@ucsdguardian.org
Hiatus:Ê hiatus@ucsdguardian.org Ê
Photo:Ê photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design:Ê design@ucsdguardian.org
Art:Êart@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising:Ê858-534-0468
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax:Ê858-534-7035Business Manager
EmilyÊKuÊ
Marketing & Advertising Director
BrandonÊKatzer
Webmaster
BryanÊSmith
Marketing Assistant
ChristineÊAlabastro
Advertising Design & Layout 
AlfredoÊH.ÊVilanoÊJr.
A.S.ÊGraphicÊStudio Ê
Distributor
AmandaÊKuPage Layout
PraneetÊKolluru,ÊArielleÊSallaiAngelaÊChen
ArielleÊSallai
MargaretÊYau
LairaÊMartin
NicoleÊChan
RebeccaÊHorwitz
MargaretÊYau
MadelineÊMann
RachelÊUda
MinaÊNilchian
RenÊEbel
MonicaÊHaider
AndrewÊOh
JohnÊHanacek
PraneetÊKolluru
RebekahÊHwangEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
Associate News Editors
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Associate
Focus/Leisure Editor
Hiatus Editor
Copy Editor
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editor
Copy Reader
EmilyÊPham
HayleyÊBisceglia-Martin
MelodyÊChernDevelopment Editor
Design Program Di rector2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2011 | WWW.UC SDGUARDIAN .ORG
BIRDLAND By Rebekah Dyer
COMPILED BY NICOLE CHAN and REBECCA HORWITZ
associate news editors CURRENTS
UCSD SAN DIEGO CALIFORNIA
/uni25B6UCSD alum and Google affiliate Ron Gorodetzky 
is working to integrate Y ouTube into Google+ by 
applying social networking aspects to Y ouTube. Gorodetzky has worked with news-sharing site Digg and co-founded video site Revision3 and Fflick, a site that combines movie comments on Twitter into movie recommendations. 
/uni25B6Researchers from UCSD, the Sanford-Burnham 
Medical Research Institute in La Jolla and the University of Utah identified two genes that are responsible for congenital heart defects in individuals with Down syndrome. The results of the study were published in the Nov. 3 issue of PLoS Genetics. 
/uni25B6The Village at Torrey Pines East received a 
Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design (LEED) Gold certification for its water and energy efficient features. The Village East is UCSD’s sixth building to achieve Gold certification. /uni00A0/uni00A0/uni25B6Local San Diego schools were awarded more 
than $300,000 in grants by The Jimmie Johnson Foundation, started by NASCAR champion driver Jimmie Johnson and his wife Chandra. More than 80 schools in California, Oklahoma and North Carolina applied for the grant. /uni00A0
/uni25B6Julio Cesar Garcia, 22, from Valley Center was 
arrested Nov. 3 for taking thousands of pictures and videos revealing up the skirts of unknowing women and girls in local stores. Investigators found 2,100 images of women and girls that were taken by Garcia, many with his cell phone camera pointed up their skirts. According to Lt. Craig of the Escondido Police Department, authorities have identified approximately 100 victims, ranging between 15 and 30 years old, with one in her 60s. /uni00A0
/uni25B6A woman found in the Mission Valley area was 
raped Nov. 5 when she tried to flag a car at 5050 Texas St. at 7:45 p.m. A Caucasian man in his 30s took a knife to her throat and raped her.  /uni25B6A woman crashed her car into a telephone 
pole in Silver Lake on the morning of Nov. 5. According to authorities, she died at the hospital shortly after the accident. The collision occurred near Riverside Drive and Gilroy Street at about 3:15 a.m., according to Officer Robert Duke of the Los Angeles Police Department’s Central Traffic Division. Duke said the woman was traveling at a high rate of speed, but said there was no indication of intoxication. 
/uni25B6Andrew Cervantes, 15, was sentenced Nov. 4 
to 40 years to life in prison for a fatal shooting he committed when he was 14. Cervantes, from Santa Ana, was tried as an adult and will begin his sentence at the California Y outh Authority and will be transferred to state prison when he turns 18. Cervantes is being charged with the death of Manuel Cervantes, 17. 
/uni25B6Jose Velasquez Castillo, 41, died Saturday, Nov. 5 
when he fell into a swimming pool while mowing a lawn. Police are not sure how the Anaheim death occurred and the cause of death is unclear.VILLAIN AND MONKEY By Nicole Oliver
THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2011 | WWW.UC SDGUARDIAN .ORG 3
Friday, Oct. 28
7:22 p.m.: Welfare Check
/uni25B6 A suspicious person appeared 
disoriented at the Gilman Parking Structure. Checks OK.
9:35 p.m.: Disturbance
/uni25B6 There was a barking dog at 
Central Mesa Apartments. Unable 
to Contact Owner(s). Saturday, Oct. 291:15 a.m.: Welfare Check
/uni25B6 A student was arrested for public 
intoxication at Lot 103. Transported 
to Detox And Adult Citation Issued.8:09 p.m.: Disturbance
/uni25B6 Loud yelling, thumping and a 
child crying were heard at Central Mesa Apartments. Checks OK.
10:15 p.m.: Possession of Marijuana
/uni25B6 The subject was found in 
possession of marijuana at the Matthews Apartments Field 
Interview administered.
Sunday, Oct. 30
1:16 a.m.: Traffic Stop
/uni25B6 A student who is a minor was 
arrested for driving on La Jolla Village Dr. with a blood alcohol level of 0.01% to 0.5%. Closed by 
Citation , Adult.
2:11 a.m.: Citizen Contact
/uni25B6 A drugged person was raped at 
the Village East Building 1. Report 
Taken.7:37 a.m.: Medical Aid
/uni25B6 A suspicious female was passed 
out in the Sixth College laundry room and she ran off when the Resident Advisor said medics and Police were en route. Unable to 
Locate. Monday, Oct. 311:54 a.m.: Citizen Contact
/uni25B6 Two students who were minors 
were arrested for consuming alcohol and intoxicated in public at OceanView Terrace. Two Transported to Detox/Two Adult Citations Issued.9:40 a.m.: Medical Aid
/uni25B6 A young female at Ledden 
Auditorium was unable to walk. She was conscious and breathing. Transported to Hospital .
7:47 p.m.: Trespass
/uni25B6 A possible transient was going 
through the garbage at the Stein Clinical Research Building. Verbal 
Warning Issued .
 Tuesday, Nov. 112:09 a.m.: Alcohol Contact
/uni25B6 There was alcohol contact at 
OceanView Terrace. Information 
only. 7:10 a.m.: Welfare Check
/uni25B6 A young male was hysterically 
crying on an MTS bus at the V A Hospital. Transported to UCSD 
Hillcrest Hospital. Wednesday, Nov. 24:57 p.m.: Tampering with a 
vehicle
/uni25B6 There was a keyhole missing 
from the driver side door of a car located in Lot 702, nothing taken. Information only.9:15 p.m.: Fire Alarm
/uni25B6 A fire alarm went off due to burnt 
food at Village East 1. False Alarm.
Thursday, Nov. 32:10 a.m.: Medical Aid
/uni25B6 A young male had a negative 
reaction to medication. He was conscious and breathing. Transported to Hospital .
8:47 a.m.: Citizen Contact
/uni25B6 A victim’s vehicle was moved 
from its original parking spot at Rady School of Management. The parking permit was stolen. Report 
Taken.
— Compiled by Rebecca 
Horwitz and Nicole Chan
A/s.sc/s.sc/o.sc /c.sc/i.sc/a.sc/t.sc/e.sc N/e.sc/w.sc/s.sc E/d.sc/i.sc/t.sc/o.sc/r.sc/s.scLIGHTS & SIRENS Limited Aid Available After Five Years of College
Council to Amend Senator’s Absences This Weekally funded financial aid. Financial aid programs affected include Federal Pell Grants, Federal Perkins Loan, Federal Work Study, Federal Loans (subsi-dized and unsubsidized), Cal Grant programs and university need-based aid.
In addition to GPA and unit 
requirements, the regulations also specify that students must graduate within a maximum of five years. 
Garcia said she believes the new 
law is directly affected by national budget concerns.
“I think this reflects on the entire 
[national] budget as a whole, ” Garcia said. “The federal government doesn’t want to be giving money to students who aren’t doing well in school. It shows that the federal government is strained. ”
In order for full-time students to 
receive financial aid, they must be enrolled in 36 units during the aca-demic year. The 36-unit requirement is not limited to fall, winter and spring quarters. Students may also use units acquired through summer session. Full-time status requires students to be enrolled in a minimum of 12 units per quarter. 
Students must also maintain a 2.0 
GPA throughout the academic year. According to the document, although a student’s GPA may have met the standards at the end of the academic year, a drop in GPA below 2.0 during summer session affects the student’s eligibility status for financial aid for the following year.
“Most students get some sort of 
financial aid from UCSD, ” Garcia said. “For a majority, it’s how they’re getting through college. ”
According to UCOP Student 
Financial Support, 17,135 UCSD undergraduate students received federally funded financial aid in the 2010-11 academic year. This is approximately 70 percent of students. 
In 2009-10, approximately 57 per-
cent of UC undergraduate students received grants and scholarships from aid programs such as Pell Grant, Cal Grant and university programs, according to the website of the UC Office of the President.
If a student is denied financial aid 
because he does not meet the GPA or unit requirements, he can submit an appeal. Students must submit docu-mentation of “exceptional” circum-stances and complete an Academic Plan. “Exceptional” circumstances are not explicitly defined, but are at the discretion of the appeals committee. Under these conditions, the Financial Aid Satisfactory Progress Appeals Committee may grant a probationary period. Students cannot re-appeal if their appeal has been denied and are limited to one appeal during their time at UCSD. 
“It’s no surprise that college is dif-
ficult and challenging, ” Garcia said. “[The new law] puts more pressure on students, now they don’t have that aca-demic probation period. If they have a bad quarter, they have to deal with the results and appealing the decision. ”
A representative from the Financial 
Aid Office could not be reached as of press time.
Readers can contact Nicole Chan at  
n3chan@ucsd.edu./uni25B6 AID, from page 1
councilmember automatically has 
three unexcused absences and no way to formally excuse him after the fact.
“It’s flawed in the sense that there’s 
no strict criteria on what constitutes an excused absence and what doesn’t, ” Marshall said. It’s just strange that even though on the council floor several members expressed that the attendance policy was broken, they were still willing to go forward and police people despite that. It’s like [the pot] calling the kettle black. ”
There are several ways A.S. 
Council could have retroactively excused the absences. Council could postpone the matter indefinitely, or go back to the minutes and excuse the absences there. Perez said members of A.S. Council were not inclined to do either.
There is an item in the order of 
business for the next A.S. Council 
meeting on Oct. 9 calling for an approval of an amendment to the minutes of Oct. 19, excusing Perez from the Senate meeting, the All Campus Affairs Committee Meeting and the Council meeting.
“My only mistake in this whole 
situation was that I forgot to send an email, ” Perez said.
Readers can contact Rebecca Horwitz 
at rawhorwit@ucsd.edu./uni25B6 ABSENCES, from page 1
 JOIN THE GUARDIAN
BECAUSE UCSD DOESN’T HAVE A JOURNALISM PROGRAM.  OPINIONMARGARET YAU
opinion @ucsdguardian.orgCON TACT THE EDITOR4 THE UC SD GUAR DIAN  | MOND AY, NOVEMBER 7, 2011 | WWW. UCSDG UAR DIAN.ORG
Last Tuesday, Bank of America announced 
that it would be dropping the debit card 
usage fee that it announced in October. The company was responding to an avalanche of criticism from its customers, as well as the announcements from competitors Wells Fargo and Chase that they would not be instituting similar debit usage fees as they had earlier planned. 
    The short-lived fee had been $5 for each 
month of debit card use. Only $5.
Bank of America had good reasons to 
implement the fee, but unfortunately, the fee’s critics are uninformed. In instituting the flat fee, the Bank of America was trying to do things in a way that banks aren’t particularly well-known for: transparency. 
The flat fee would have replaced — or at 
least mitigated — the fees that banks nor-mally charge whenever a debit transaction occurs. Without the $5 fee, Bank of America will have to find other (sneakier) ways of keeping its profit margins intact. 
Today, in Facebook groups and Internet 
campaigns, Bank of America customers have tried to convince others to switch to smaller banks. Bank of America has been wise to lis-ten to these warning tremors and back down with the fee.
Ultimately though, all this will do is make 
it harder for the customer to budget appro-priately and save money — which was what the customers who signed the twitter peti-tions and sent the email invites wanted to do in the first place. 
It’s a shame that a company that was try-
ing to make a difference in the way banking was done was called out and forced into back-pedaling.
/emdash.cap AY AN KUSARI
Contributing WriterLike a responsible 21-year-old, I recently lost my debit card. This is usually sort of a hassle 
for real people with adult concerns, like buying groceries and gas and two-dollar wine. 
But in attempting to reclaim the 
card at my local Bank of America this week, I thought, why not try to turn lemons into spiked lemonade? The bank’s Sept. 29 announcement that it would begin to charge some custom-ers $5 a month to use their debit card had been a PR nightmare of Netflix proportions; surely I could milk the vulnerable old place for free express shipping on a replacement card (or at least a card with a photo on it). 
The personal banker I spoke with 
tried to lighten the mood: must be partying a little too hard, losing your debit card on a Saturday night! All business, I reported that I had merely left it an ATM. I wore a button-down shirt that hopefully emphasized my serious adultness. The most valuable bank in the richest country in the world didn’t stand a chance against my wrinkled forehead.
Until, obviously, it did. I’m still 
waiting on the replacement, and the photo ID has always been free. But others have stronger powers of per-suasion. Kristen Christian (her real name) is the 27-year-old mastermind behind Bank Transfer Day, a push to get big bank customers to move their money to local credit unions. 
As for Christian herself? She’s a 
27-year-old art gallery owner from Echo Park in L.A. — a description that, I am convinced, pales only to “graphic designer from Berlin” in hip-ster cred. But she’s a hipster changing the world, which I personally consider preferable to the chain-smoking, Foucault-quoting variety. 
Christian chose Nov. 5 to align 
Bank Transfer Day with Guy Fawkes Day — a little piece of 17th century British history that, both shame-fully and fittingly, proved a little too obscure for this history minor at first mention. (Reader’s digest version: the holiday’s about fireworks.)
While Christian’s initial inten-
tion was just to promote the event among 500 or so Facebook friends, it went viral in a big way: By Nov. 5, the event had attracted 85,000 attendees. I’ d ordinarily be inclined to dismiss that as a strong showing of slacktiv-ism, but that’s not the case. According to the Credit Union Association of America, some 650,000 customers have switched to credit unions since Bank of America announced its plan a month ago — a 700-percent increase in growth over the rest of the year.  
With all my persistence and eye-
brow raising, I feel a little tinge of slacktivist guilt for staying with Bank of America for the time being. The fee was called off on Nov. 1, and I’m still waiting on that shiny red card to come in the mail. Plus, with graduation a few months off, I’m reluctant to jump ship to a local credit union. 
Still, I feel empowered in knowing 
that a 20something’s Facebook rant has the power to shake things up (or spare us all an extra $5 a month.)At Wit’s
   End
TREVO R CO X
trevorcox@ucsd.edu
QUICK TAKESBANK OF AMERICA ANNOUNCED A NEW $5 MONTHLY DEBIT CARD USAGE FEE LAST MONTH, BU T CUSTOMER 
OUTR AGE CAUSED THE COMPANY TO RESCIND THE CHARGE ON NO V. 1.
On Tuesday, Bank of America announced that 
it will not follow through with its proposed 
$5 monthly debit card fee after weeks of vehement criticism from its customers. Wells Fargo and JP Morgan Chase planned to test similar debit fees in various local markets, a tactic they scrapped after witnessing the backlash Bank of America experi-enced. Though the repeal is a drastic concession to consumers, whether Bank of America’s backpedal-ing will win back customers remains to be seen.
According to executive director of the National 
Association of Consumer Advocates Ira Rheingold, Bank of America needs to put in a lot of work into winning back customer approval for their actions. Due to recent shady mortgage servicing practices in the past, he states that customers today are more inclined to notice unsavory business tactics.  
Bank of America has remained mum on how 
much money it would lose due to the proposed fee, but Wells Fargo and JP Morgan Chase have been more forthcoming with figures. They claim that they would have lost $250 and $300 million per quarter respectively. 
Some customers have already switched to other 
banks or credit unions and will not be returning, and Bank of America is not forthcoming with exactly how many customers have closed their accounts. Customers are willing to look for alterna-tives to national banks and “Occupy Wall Street” and “Bank Transfer Day” are manifestations of that. Bank of America’s customer trust remains on a precarious perch and while they are backing down from debit fees they are planning to hike up other fees in a more subtle manner via checking account fees. While one act repairs trust, the other razes it.
Bank of America has avoided the debit fees but 
the damage has already been done. It’s uncertain whether Bank of America will recover from this pratfall or if this “too big to fail” bank set in motion its own dethroning.
/emdash.cap ALEKS LE VIN
Staff WriterBank of America’s decision to retract its $5 monthly fee was a smart move – and the only 
choice it could have sensibly made under the cir-cumstances.
If the corporation had persisted with this 
charge, it would have lost all credibility with its customers. Prior to the move, hordes of angry customers petitioned the bank and threatened to close their accounts if their demands were not met. Saturday, Nov. 5 was even deemed “Bank Transfer Day” — a day when many customers agreed to transfer their accounts to smaller banks and credit unions that treat their customers better.
Bank of America is not alone in caving to cus-
tomer demands. In September, Netflix announced its intent to separate itself into two companies for DVD and streaming. A few months earlier, the company had announced that it would increase prices by 60 percent – two moves that cost the company 800,000 subscribers. Its once-loyal consumers have lambasted it — furthermore, its stocks have gone into free fall, and its market value has dropped 75 percent in the four months after its misstep. Since then, Netflix has rescinded its motion to create the DVD-by-mail subsidiary, Qwikster. This was a step in the right direc-tion, and will undoubtedly help the company to recover from its rough patch. With competitors ready to nimbly pounce on every lost customer, it is paramount that corporations prioritize cus-tomer needs.
Once one corporation commits a blunder, 
competition ups its ante. The ultimate goal is to retain customer trust in this never-ending battle, even if that means submitting to cumbersome consumer demands. Corporations need to show that they are not leviathans and that their ears are receptive to their customer base – so that they can boast of even having one, for that matter.
— HIL ARY LEE
Staff WriterResponse Shows Interest in Customers Fee Shows Transparency, not GreedOver the course of the 2011-12 school year, select University of California faculty members will receive merit-based salary increases. UC President Mark Yudof announced this in his public statement as 
a way to attract more workers to the UC system and to reward those who have done great work. Those eligible to receive the salary increase include all non-represented UC staff and faculty who earn less than $200,000 per year. The recipients have been chosen by peer evaluations, an evaluation policy that fails to acknowledge the input of those who actually sit and observe these educators for hours on end: the students.
With $500 million in budget cuts proposed by Gov. Jerry Brown this year, it 
is encouraging to see that the UC system is prioritizing educators as an impor-tant investment. In Yudof ’s official statement regarding these merit increases, he insists that university quality cannot be compromised, a quality that rests on excellent professors and researchers. $140 million has been allotted to fund the program, with more than half set aside to reward non-academic staff. While the cost sounds steep, this amount is only half a percent of the 2011-12 California higher education budget, and because the UC system employs over 150,000 faculty and staff members, merit-based salary increases will be very selective. The budget is comprised of 18 percent state general funds, about 20 percent is coming from student fees and other UC general funds with the remaining two thirds coming from other funds, including medical center rev-enues and contract and grant funds, according to UC spokesperson Dianne Klein. These pay increases are important because educators are the core of this university system, and if California wants to keep the best professors around, the state must have competitive salaries.
Additionally, these raises cannot apply to anyone already earning at least 
$200,000 annually, which excludes all of senior management, including the advocate of the policy, Yudof. This is important, especially after the uproar over a $100,000 salary increase for San Diego State’s new president earlier this year.
According to Yudof, the merit pool will receive a 3-percent increase to 
their overall pay in order to both reward and retain staff. The selection process began on Oct. 1, and recipients who received the highest peer evaluations now receive fatter checks in the mail. As of now, there is no indication of when the next wave of raises will be rewarded — staffers have no rewards system to work towards if they don’t recieve a pay raise this time around. This year, UCSD lost three top scientists and researchers to Rice University due to competitive sala-ries. If these merit-based raises do not occur at least once or twice a decade, the UC system is bound to continue losing top educators to competitive wages.
The basis of these peer evaluations, as described by Yudof, focuses on a 
professor’s quality of teaching, research and overall service to the school. These Merit-Based Raises
See EVALUATIONS,Ê page 5Merit-basedÊsalaryÊincreasesÊforÊUCÊfacultyÊmayÊhelpÊretainÊfacultyÊinÊtheÊcomingÊyears,ÊbutÊtheÊevaluationsÊusedÊtoÊ
identifyÊmeritÊlackÊaÊkeyÊcomponentÊÑÊstudentÊvoice.Ê By Madeline Mann • Associate Opinion Editor
JEFFREY  LAU/GUARDIANComplainÊLikeÊ
aÊSlacktivist,ÊProtestÊLikeÊaÊHipsterÊ
It is T oo Late to Repair the DamageTHE UC SD GUAR DIAN  | MOND AY, NOVEMBER 7, 2011 | WWW. UCSDG UAR DIAN.ORG 5
AZUSA   |   HIGH DESERT   |   INLAND EMPIRE   |   LOS ANGELES   |   MURRIETA
ORANGE COUNTY   |   SAN DIEGO   |    VENTURA COUNTY   |   ONLINE(800) 825-5278
www.apu.edu/explore/educationgraduatecenter@apu.edu Call
Click
EmailEarn your degree in education
in 12 –18 months at APU.
With more than 36 credential and master’s degree
opportunities, we’re confident we have a program
for you.
APU offers:
• Convenient classes at 8 Southern California locations 
and online.
• Programs in teaching, counseling, physical education, 
and administration.
• NCATE-accredited programs recognized by all 50 
states and internationally.
12921
Classes start five times throughout the year. 
Contact us today!Darin Curtis, M.A. ’95
Tierra del Sol Middle School
2011 California Teacher of the Yearare undoubtedly important criterion, but students arguably 
have more insight to a professor’s quality of teaching than a faculty peer. Not only do students constantly interact with the professors, but they are the consumers who are paying for the education — their feedback should hold high atten-tion. Thus, surveys like CAPE should be considered when choosing recipients. To ensure that all students give input about their professors, students should be required to fill out evaluations in class, which is already a strategy imple-mented by the Making of the Modern World program. A wider spectrum of specific questions are asked in MMW sections to best determine how well their TAs are perform-ing in different areas, and also encourages students to explain their reasoning behind their responses. 
The UC system is known first and foremost for its 
impeccable education, with more academic departments ranked in the top 10 nationally than any other public or private university. The UC system has 57 Nobel laureates on staff, as well as professors who are not only talented in their area of research, but who are also able to effectively transfer that knowledge to hundreds of students. Therefore, great importance should be placed on the way professors conduct themselves in a lecture hall. No matter the reason why a student chooses a professor, students know when they’ve got an impressive professor whose legacy is based on their ability to command a room and love of teaching. 
Faculty peers, on the other hand, may lack the insight to 
assess the majority of their peers in a lecture setting. This may lead to favoritism of professors who do great research — a quality that can be judged purely on paper. Meanwhile, great lecturers may go unnoticed due to the unattractive time commitment that goes into observing a professor in action. Without a student component in professor evalua-tions, a well-rounded perspective is impossible to achieve.   
Readers can contact Madeline Mann at  memann@ucsd.edu/uni25B6 EVALUATIONS, fromÊpageÊ4Peer Evaluations of Professors Lack Student InsightQUITE FRANKLY By Lior Schenk
 LETTERS  TO THE EDITOR
Dear Editor,
I am writing in response to your 
article about the UCSD Parking and 
Transportation crisis. /uni00A0Neither the front page nor the editorial men-tioned the fact that the million-dollar deficits/uni00A0are largely due to the main campus being held responsible for rebuilding a parking structure at the UCSD Hillcrest hospital. I knew this from reading the Guardian  last year. 
I personally think it is disgusting 
that a financially solvent hospital has found a way to get broke college students to foot the bill for a park-ing garage that sits 12 miles from campus. Other hospitals are able to afford their own parking garages, and Hillcrest should be responsible for their own structures. 
If students are going to pay 
more for parking and in citations to subsidize a garage, it should be for a garage on campus that they will use. I am/uni00A0appalled/uni00A0that the Guardian  
decided to let that little detail slide and let students think that their high-ly-exorbitant/uni00A0parking fees left their busing service millions of dollars in debt. /uni00A0Parking and Transportation know it is a lot easier to sell increased fees for student buses than for hos-pital parking — students, don’t let them get away with it!
—Kenyon Applebee
Post-doc, Kavli Institute Dear Editor,
Concerning Re: Revelations of 
sexual misconduct lodged against Herman Cain: Let’s lay off this man, no pun intended. 
Who are these women and what 
exactly is their claim to shame? Sounds like monkey business to me. Where is Senator Gary Hart when we need him? 
I have heard this song before 
and it stinks. Why does our culture have this fixation with John Paul The Great when in reality we have little concept of moral issues? 
I am a liberal Democrat and I 
call them as I see them. Let’s stop the sexual/uni00A0hypocrisy/uni00A0and tackle important issues like avoiding single motherhood. Remember, it’s supposed to be a choice, folks. 
—Daniel J. Smiechowski
San Diego Resident
Hospital Costs Took 
from Student FeesSexual Conduct Claims Unfounded
/uni25B6 The Guardian  welcomes letters from its readers. 
All letters must be addressed, and written, to 
the editor of the Guardian . Letters are limited 
to 500 words, and all letters must include the writer’s name, college and year (undergraduates), department (graduate students or professors) or city of residence (local residents). A maximum of three signatories per letter is permitted. The Guardian Editorial Board reserves the right to 
edit for length, accuracy, clarity and civility. The Editorial Board reserves the right to reject letters for publication. Due to the volume of mail we receive, we do not confirm receipt or publication of a letter.
OPINION
APPLY TODAY.  APPLICAT IONS AT UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG. 6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2011 | WWW.UC SDGUARDIAN .ORG
FOCUSMINA NILCHIAN
focus @ucsdguardian.orgCONTACT THE EDITOR
features
When it comes to recommending music, there’s one 
thing that Pandora and Spotify can’t do: read your mind. But Gert Lanckriet, assistant professor at UCSD’s Department of Electrical and Computer 
Engineering, is developing an application that does exactly that.
“We want this device here to be zero click, ” Lanckriet said about 
the application he’s been working on since 2009. “It plays the right music we want to hear right now without even asking me any type of questions. ”
Like the perfect best friend you never had, the app will be able to 
tell you’re still hurting from that breakup — and find the best tunes to soundtrack your wallowing. 
But the application’s mind-reading capabilities won’t be so 
mysterious; it will utilize smartphone components like the camera, the microphone and the GPS system to analyze characteristics like voice inflection, typing speed and location to tag the user’s mood and surroundings and match those tags with music. 
Lanckriet has already developed the algorithm for one step of 
the complex process: labeling music without having to actually listen to the songs.
“We have algorithms to automatically tag music, ” Lanckriet said, 
describing a  program he already designed back in 2005, that can automatically identify what characteristics a particular song has. “Music is a one-dimensional wave form. Y ou feed that in the com-puter and it says rock, dance, guitar. If someone wants to listen to romantic jazz with saxophone and male vocals, we can actually find music and we can find those songs with those tags. ”
He’s tagged over 10,000 songs, and with access to more music 
catalogues, he could potentially tag the millions of songs available online in places like Spotify and Myspace. He’s even developed a Facebook game to help him speed up the process: “Herdit, ” a game in which users describe the music they’re listening to. Over time, “Herdit” will compile the most popular adjectives used to describe songs so Lanckriet can add the tags to his database of music. 
For the next component of his project — being able to identify 
what a person is feeling — Lanckriet found an unlikely (but conve-nient) collaborator: UCSD’s own medical school.
Even though the med school was working on its own portable 
mood detection software, Lanckriet did not actually contact the medical school itself. 
“It was a coincidence that it happened, ” Lanckriet said. “I was 
introduced to them through somebody. They actually had a grant proposal from NIH to use accelerometers and GPS signals to try to predict the energy expenditures for medical patients. ”
 Lanckriet’s team and the med school have two totally different 
goals in mind, but both parties want to find a way to detect some-one’s mood and activity easily through a phone application, and each of the groups provides skills the other lacks.
Through the med school, Lanckriet can find out what detailed 
characteristics of a person’s behavior can be associated with which moods, and he can develop algorithms to place a tag on things like voice inflections and typing speed, which would then be matched up with musical tags.
It works well for both of them; certain components of the soft-
ware that Lanckriet’s working on could be utilized by doctors whose patients need to be closely monitored.
The music recommendation project has attracted big names 
like Google, Y ahoo, Qualcomm and IBM, all of whom intend to work with Lanckriet and fund his project. He’s also received fund-ing from the National Science Foundation, the National Institutes of Health, the Alfred P . Sloan Foundation and the Hellman Family Foundation. Lanckriet predicts that a basic app will be well under way by June 2012.
Not all of the attention has been positive. Some are concerned 
with the privacy issues that would arise out of the application, with many disconcerted by the possibility of third parties (like advertis-ers) knowing someone’s mood and location and exploiting that information.
“On one side I completely understand that people have a cer-
tain reservation about this in terms of privacy, ” Lanckriet said. “It’s certainly not our intent to push anybody somewhere where they’re uncomfortable with it. We’re initially just going to work with that opt-in crowd. ”
moodmood
By Mina Nilchian • Focus Editor mus lc
 mus lc
As if you needed another reason to be attached to 
your smartphone, engineers at UCSD are 
working on an application that will provide 
the right soundtrack to your mood. 
COURTESY  OF JACOBS  SCHOOL  OF ENGINEERING
See MUSIC page 7Lanckriet insists that his main concern is finishing the development 
of the software, but he also predicts that people will be less worried 
about the privacy issues once they see what the app can do for them.
“If you look at Facebook there’s constantly a discussion about how 
they invade our privacy, but over time a lot of people do subscribe to it because they see the value of it, ” Lanckriet said.
He’s also enlisted the help of undergraduates to start developing 
simple application interfaces to host the algorithms.
“To show you that we’re very serious about this right now I’m work-
ing with a group of undergrads where basically every student is design-ing an app that will do this, ” Lanckriet said. 
Lanckriet himself doesn’t identify as an “audiophile” (“I can barely 
remember names of songs, ” he admitted) but it was the social aspect of music that inspired him to take on creating this application.
“ At a student barbecue six years ago I met two students over a keg of 
beer, ” Lanckriet said. “They needed a drummer for their band. I played drums, another guy played banjo and we were making music out of the blue. I thought, if you upload this to Myspace nobody’s gonna listen to i t .”
That’s when he thought of giving people a simple way of finding 
music other than what usually plays on the radio, without asking listen-ers to make any sort of extra specifications.
While there is some merit to the privacy issues presented by his 
opponents (it is pretty creepy to think that your iPhone might be able to figure out how you really feel about your ex’s new girlfriend), Lanckriet is sure the streamlined and intuitive nature of the program may over-ride the concerns. Not to mention, when you ask for music recom-mendations, it’ll be nice to know that at least someone knows you don’t appreciate dubstep.
Readers can contact Mina Nilchian at mnilchia@ucsd.edu.THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2011 | WWW.UC SDGUARDIAN .ORG 7
COMPETITIVE SCHOLARSHIPS FOR
SCIENCE & CHEMICAL ENGINEERING
Programs offering scholarships include:
• Applied Mathematics and Computational Science (AMCS)• Bioscience (B)• Chemical and Biological Engineering (CBE)• Chemical Science (ChemS)• Computer Science (CS)• Earth Science and Engineering (ErSE)• Electrical Engineering (EE)• Environmental Science and Engineering (EnSE)
• Marine Science (MarSE)• Materials Science and Engineering (MSE) 
• Mechanical Engineering (ME)Master’s and PhD students will benefit from the 
extensive scholarship package that includes:
• Full tuition
• Monthly living allowance• Housing• Relocation support• Health and dental insurance
Eligible students may apply immediately for MS/PhDprograms starting in September 2012.
For complete information & details visit: 
www.kaust.edu.sa
Email: admissions@kaust.edu.saPhone: +966 (2) 808-3428/9
    We want this device here to 
be zero click. It plays the right music we want to hear right now without even asking me any type of questions."
- Gert Lanckriet
NICOLE  OLIVER /GUARDIANEngineer Creating a Mood 
Reading Application
▶ MUSIC fromÊpageÊ68 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2011 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
CAMPUS 11.07-11.13CALENDAR
IMAGINE
DRAGONS @
THE LOFT • 9pmTHU11.10MON 11.07
4pm
SEMINAR: “ASIAN CONCERNS RELATED 
TO GLOBAL RE-BALANCING: PERPECTIVES FROM THE PHILIPPINES.”- MANDEVILLE AUDITORIUM
Mr. Francis G. Estrada, Chairman of the 
Board of Trustees at De La Salle University in the Philippines, will be a special guest lecturer for EmPac. This very intriguing talk focuses on severe global economic imbalances. 
Rosalie Fanshel: (858) 822-3103, 
rzfanshel@ucsd.edu
9pm
BITCHY BINGO- THE LOFT
What do you get when you combine Bingo games and a drag show??? Bitchy Bingo is here!!!! The lovely ladies of Lips are back this quarter, to add some desperately needed fabulosity to your life. Come join us for an evening of fun, laughter, games and entertainment that is sure to make you LOL.
THU 11.10
4pm
VISITING ARTIST LECTURE: JEFFREY 
VALLANCE - VISUAL ARTS FACILITY
Jeffrey Vallance's work blurs the lines 
between object making, installation, performance, curating and writing. Critics have described his work as an indefinable cross-pollination of many disciplines. For research, Vallance has often traveled to meet with appropriate officials in the field. Often an installation is exhibited in a site-specific museum location. 
8pm
GET BACK AT IT: FUNDRAISER AND 
SNOW MOVIES - PRICE CENTER THEATER
Come out to PC Theater and check out the 
double premiere of Red Bull's new winter sport movies! Come watch Travis Rice's 'The Art of Flight' and Tanner Hall's 'Retallack'. This is a fund raising event for the High Fives Foundation and the CR Johnson Foundation - both foundations exist to help athletes who have suffered a life altering spinal cord or traumatic brain injury rehabilitate and recover, and to help keep them active in the sports which they have a passion for. With the help and support of High Fives and CRJ, athletes like Landon McGauley are given the encouragement that they need to achieve their goals through winter adaptive sports. Presented by Outback Adventures at UC San Diego.
9pm
IMAGINE DRAGONS- THE LOFT
Combining synth-laden rock and infectious dance grooves, Imagine Dragons comes off both anthemic and eccentric. By way of Vegas, the quintet brings the restless energy of “the city that never sleeps” to the masses with its 2010 sophomore EP “Hell and Silence.” A short, yet impressive history includes sharing the stage with indie notables Edward Sharpe & The Magnetic Zeros, Nico Vega and The Envy Corps and opening for mainstream acts such as Blue October, Jet, and Kelly Clarkson.SAT11.12
2pm & 8pm
THE DYBBUK (MAT)- THEODORE & ADELE SHANK 
THEATRE
Khonen falls in love with Leah, but when her father 
finds a more wealthy suitor, he drops dead of sorrow. At his gravesite, Leah becomes possessed by a Dybbuk, a spirit intent on righting past wrongs. A re-imagined classic from the Yiddish theatre. Box Office: (858) 534-4574, tdpromo@ucsd.edu 
1pm
UCSD DANCE MARATHON PRESENTED BY THE 
PANHELLENIC ASSOCIATION - THE LOFT AT UC SAN DIEGO
Welcome to UC San Diego's Dance Marathon 2011! 
The Panhellenic Association at UC San Diego, is sponsoring this event, which will take place on November 12, 2011 at The Loft at UC San Diego. UCSD's Dance Marathon is a 12-hour long dance event in which individuals or groups of 4-6 people each dance for 12 hours straight to raise money for a non-profit charity. Circle of Sisterhood creates scholarships for women in need around the world who suffer from poverty and/or oppression. We hope that you join us by signing up to participate, donating money, or buying a a t-shirt. All proceeds will go directly towards Circle of Sisterhood and a young woman's education. phcservice@ucsd.edu. 661-313-3318TUE11.08
2pm
LOL (LOFT OUT LOUD) WITH THE HINGES- THE 
LOFT
Appearing monthly at The Loft this season will be 
much loved San Diego improv group, The Hinges, fresh from their winning of the Audience Choice Award at 9th Annual Los Angeles Improv Comedy Festival this year. Shea Kopp: (949) 887-5978, skopp@ucsd.edu 
4pm
FACULTY RESEARCH AWARD LECTURE
Featuring Professor Marcel Hénaff with a talk titled “An Economy in Crisis—A Crisis of Civilization: Anthropological Perspectives on Money, Debt and Time,” and Professor Nicholas Spitzer who will speak on “The Changing Brain: How the Environment Switches Neurotransmitters and Behavior. (858) 534-8497, artpower@ucsd.edu
8pm
HOT BUTTERED RUM WITH GREENSKY 
BLUEGRASS AT UCSD - PORTER'S PUB
UCSD: got banjo? With two of the hottest nationally 
touring bluegrass bands to reach UCSD, Hot Buttered Rum and Greensky Bluegrass, there'll be plenty of mandolin, fiddle, banjo and more this Tuesday night at Porter's Pub. Great food and drink specials, bison burgers and vegetarian delights abound. Special UCSD student performance by Brent Wong and Friends. And, UCSD Students with valid ID are FREE. Contact: 858-822-2068WED11.09
4pm
PROFESSOR UNSCRIPTED: BREAKING THE BOTTLE 
HABIT- THE LOFT
Can't get off the bottle? Join us and Professor Milton 
Saier as we discuss the harmful effects that plastic bottles have on the environment and find creative solutions to address this issue. Sandra Duran: (818) 389-3899, sendsandraduranmail@gmail.com
5pm
MADE IN INDIA: A FILM ABOUT SURROGACY - 
GARREN AUDITORIUM, SOM 
'Reproductive Tourism' is a trade valued at more than 
$450 million in India, and it's quickly growing. Infertile couples need pay only a quarter of the domestic costs for the same surrogacy services overseas. Currently, there are no actual laws that govern surrogacy in India - only suggested guidelines. However, this international market continues to grow without regulation or protection. Join us Wednesday, November 9th at 5:00 PM in the Garren Auditorium (Basic Science Building, School of Medicine) for a thoughtful night of film and panel discussion: Michael Caligiuri - Dept. of Psychiatry, Cathy Gere - Dept. of History, Kalindi Vora - Dept. of Ethnic Studies. Sponsored by the Student Society for Medical Ethics, a registered UCSD student organization.
FRI11.11
2:30pm
BIRCH AQUARIUM AT SCRIPPS- TIDEPOOLING 
ADVENTURES- BIRCH AQUARIUM AT THE SCRIPPS INSTITUTION OF OCEANOGRAPHY, DIKE ROCK 
Visit a local tide pool to learn how these amazing 
habitats and their inhabitants truly survive Education Department: (858) 534-7336, aquariuminfo@ucsd.edu 
10:30pm
MAKE A WISH ON 11/11/11 - WARREN LAWN 
ACROSS EARL'S 
Warren College Student Council would like to invite you 
to a wishing ceremony on 11/11/11! Write your wish on luminaria to light the path of Warren! Food and drinks provided. This date only comes every hundred years! Don't miss your chance for the most epic wish you will ever make!get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
get
listed...
get
listed...
get
every MONDAY
in The GuardianCalendar
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdguardian.org
THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2011 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
Guardian Classifieds are placed online and are FREE for UCSD. Low cost classified placements for our print 
edition are also available to the UCSD campus and the public at   ucsdguardian.campusave.com
Guardian Classifieds are placed online and are FREE for UCSD. Low cost classified placements for our print edition are also available to the UCSD campus and the public at   
ucsdguardian.campusave.comHOUSING
$1200- Studio Near Windansea Beach in La 
Jolla. Furnished studio condo only 1 block from world famous Windansea Beach in beautiful La Jolla!! This condo is extreme-ly functional and comfortable with great, friendly neighbors. Comes completely fur-nished including a washer & dryer. Brand new desk, desk lamp, kitchen table, couch, bookcase, etc. Close to bus stop and res-taurants and other conveniences. Short or long-term rental available. Water & trash pick up included. Elevator on property. Ocean view complex! Cats and other smalls animals ok - sorry, no dogs allowed. Lease - 6 months to a year: $1,200 a month. Lease - month to month: $1,350 a month. If interested, please email or call 619-566-5554. Reply online at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds to Listing ID: 13618858
Avalon at Cortez Hill - Apartments in San 
Diego, CA Conveniently located at 1399 Ninth Avenue between Ash and A Street in San Diego, Avalon at Cortez Hill is easily reached by highways 5, 94, and 163, or by any of the major roads servicing the downtown area. Avalon at Cortez Hill offers a variety of living arrangements to accommodate your needs, from a studio, or a one-bedroom, to a two-bedroom double master apartment. Take advantage of our swimming pool and spa, fitness center, business center, full ser-vice salon, deli, convenience mart, tennis courts, and laundry facilities -- all located right on the premises. -- If you’re looking to rent an apartment in San Diego, but want to live in the lap of luxury, then you’ve come to the right place. Avalon at Cortez Hill has beautiful apartments in the heart of San Diego, close to everything you need to enjoy crosswordliving in Southern California. The apartments themselves are stunning and the charming San Diego neighborhood has so much to offer you. Reply online at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds to Listing ID: 13624817
$450- Costa Verde Sublet - We are looking for 
a female sublet for the month of November. The sublet will share a master bedroom with a clean, friendly, and courteous UCSD stu-dent. Price: $450; dates and price negotiable. Location: Costa Verde Apartments, easy trans-portation and access to grocery stores, UTC mall, and UCSD. Amenities: Free gym, pool, jacuzzi, internet, utilities included, laundry, patio, parking. Reply online at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds to Listing ID: 13769351
River Run Village - If you’re looking for a 
central location and a great price.....River Run Village is where you want to live. Our prime location puts you within walking distance of shopping, dining and entertainment in the heart of Mission Valley. Thoughtfully designed floorplans and attractive ameni-ties make River Run Village a great place to live at a comfortable price! Our responsive staff will take good care of you! Come visit us today! Please call for our Fantastic Specials!!! Reply online at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds to Listing ID: 13600386
ROOMMATES
$500- Two rooms/shared bathrooms- Mira Mesa house has two bedrooms, both with shared bathrooms available to rent!! $500 monthly rent including utilities (water, gas/electric, high-speed/wireless Internet, cable TV and washer/dryer) $500 deposit. No pets, drugs or smoking please! The bedrooms are 
made
o
o
r
r
d
d
made
d
made
e
e
r
t
your vision,
our mission.
The Associated Students Store Contact outfitters@ucsd.edu for more info.Create custom apparel to promote your
student organization with Triton Outfitter'snew Made TO Order program!
the
guardian ishiring!WRITING | PHOTOGRAPHY | LAYOUT | DESIGN | ADVERTISING
PICK UP A COPY ON NEWS STANDS EVERY MONDAY & THURSDAY!COPY READING ART | ILLUSTRATION | MARKETING | GRAPHICS
APPLICATIONS ONLINE AT
ucsdguardian.org/jobs .read between the lines.
i
QUESTIONS? EMAIL jobs@ucsdguardian.org ?
ACROSS
1 Like 20 Questions questions
6 Put together, as a book10 Ratchets (up)14 Halloween option15 Over, in Germany16 Loughlin of “90210”17 Last resort actions20 Celery pieces21 Icy space streakers22 “The way I see it, ” in online shorthand24 Sorrow25 __ moment: sudden realization26 Vote against27 2009 Clooney/Streep film based on a Roald 
Dahl book
31 Display ostentatiously32 Landlord’s contract33 Holler34 “__ the season to be jolly ... ”35 Soccer moms’ transports39 Malia Obama’s sister42 Gripe and grouse44 Scrunchie, e.g.47 “One Day __ Time”48 Pull a scam on49 Dali display, say50 Biblical beast51 Abandon on an island53 Giorgio known for snazzy suits55 Kitschy lawn ornament59 Peru’s capital60 Message passed in class61 Like some gases62 Posing no challenge63 Glittery rock style typified by David Bowie64 Lymphatic tissue massesDOWN
1 Since Jan. 1, on a financial report2 Botch something up3 Like corn and apples4 Condé __ Publications5 From Canada’s capital6 Water carrier7 PCs from Big Blue8 Maiden name lead-in9 Old Greek coin10 Former student11 Rita who shouted “Hey you guys!” on “The 
Electric Company”
12 Before the state’s cut, as income13 Actress Spacek18 Words of defeat19 Flies in the clouds22 Uncertain23 Masculine25 Top poker pair28 Oklahoma oil city29 Hipbone-related30 Flu symptom34 Like a fine line36 Reached, as goals37 Mark Harmon military TV drama38 Women40 Fancy scarf41 Saint Stephen’s punishment for blasphemy42 Destiny43 A, B, C, D, E, or K44 And others: Latin45 ‘80s-’90s Anaheim Stadium NFL team46 Apollo Theater site47 More than enough52 “The Star-Spangled Banner” start53 Mennen shaving lotion54 El __: climate pattern56 KFC’s Sanders, e.g.57 Univ. sr. ’s exam58 NBA tiebreakersroughly 10x10, has a wall length closet. Full 
sized bed and/or small couch (turns into full bed) available for use. The rooms are located upstairs and downstairs (in a Single Family Home, with total of 5 bedrooms and 3 bath-rooms). Reply online at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds to Listing ID: 13465066
FOR SALE
$850- Fender 59 Bassman Reissue - Fender 59 Bassman Reissue, ex + cond, home use only, always covered, tweed, original owner 10 yrs old, great amp, must sell. $850.00 909-982-2964 .See item listed at http://www.recycler.com Reply online at ucsdguardian.org/clas-sifieds to Listing ID: 13764417
JOBS
iPhone Game Coder & Graphic Designer. My job requirements are that you are able to work with is 2d isometric, objective c and xcode for my current project. I am looking for a programmer and designer, these are the skills of each I am looking for:Programmer - objective C, Cocoa, iphone, ipad, xcode. Designer - photoshop, graphic design, 2d 3d, maya, 3ds max, modeling, animation. I would like to see your prior work and apps you have created. Reply online at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds to Listing ID: 13580103
POST FOR FREE AT
ONLINE, PRINT, OR BOTH!YES
CLASSIFIEDSPEOPLE STILL READ
ucsdguardian.
campusave.com POST FOR FREE ATPOST FOR FREE AT
ONLINE, PRINT, OR BOTH!ONLINE, PRINT,
OR BOTH!YESYES
CLASSIFIEDSPEOPLE STILL READCLASSIFIEDSPEOPLE
ucsdguardian.
campusave.comucsdguardian.
campusave.com
 STILL READ10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2011 | WWW.U CSDGUARDIAN . ORG
goals in the first quarter.
“ As a team our defense was solid. The 
main thing though, I was pretty pleased 
with how we controlled the match from early on, ” head coach Denny Harper said in an interview with UCSD athletics representatives.
Senior goalkeeper David Morton — a 
cornerstone of the Triton defense this season — made 10 saves for UCSD on the night. 
Ending the quarter with a 3-1 lead 
after a tremendous save from Morton, the Triton goalkeeper recorded another big block to start the second quarter. But the Mustangs brought the game to within one after Santa Clara’s Matt Kochalko pounded the ball into the net, putting the score at 3-2.
UCSD maintained the lead in the sec-
ond quarter with a long-range goal from David Higginson, followed by goals from sophomore Lukas Skya, freshman Joe Dietrich and senior Chris Barton.
Up 7-2 at the end of the first half, the 
Tritons extended their lead, not letting the Mustangs any closer than four points throughout the remainder of the game.
On Sunday, the Tritons faced No. 1 
UCLA in their last home game of the regular season. The Tritons also honored their four graduating seniors: Graham Saber, William Brown, Matt Kerchner and Morton.Morton will leave the school as the 
record-holder for most career saves, recording 1,021 in his four years playing 
for UCSD.
Unfortunately, the Tritons didn’t have 
enough to overcome top-ranked UCLA.
“I thought we put forward a great 
effort, much better than the last time we had a top team here, ” Harper said.   “I thought we really made UCLA work throughout the entire game. They knew they couldn’t really let their guard down and I’m pleased that we competed. ”
UCLA scored the first three goals with 
less than 7:30 minutes on the clock. But the Tritons kept the pressure on, and took one back with just over a minute and a half left in the quarter, bringing the score to 3-1.
The Bruins continued to outscore the 
Tritons in the following periods, although Morton did well to deny UCLA on nine attempts. 
The Tritons will have one more match 
before their postseason, against UC Irvine on Wednesday, Nov. 9. 
“We’ll use the Irvine game as a prepa-
ration game to catapult us into the WWPA [Championships], ” Harper said.
UCSD will then prepare for the 
WWPA Championships, going into the tournament with the second seed on Nov. 17 - 20, to be hosted at Canyonview Pool.
Readers can contact Rachel Uda at ruda@
ucsd.eduTritonÊWaterÊPoloÊTopsÊNo.Ê14ÊSantaÊClaraÊ14-7,ÊFallsÊtoÊNo.Ê1ÊUCLAÊ9-4
/uni25B6 M. WATER POLO, fromÊpageÊ12
NOLAN  THOMAS /GUARDIAN  FILE
The UCSD Men’s Water Polo team split their weekend matches, beating No. 14 Santa Clara on Friday, Nov. 4, before losing to No1 1 UCLA on 
Sunday, Nov. 6.THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2011 | WWW.U CSDGUARDIAN . ORG 11
Looking for a great pharmacy school?
Look no 
further than 
the University of
Michigan.Meet some alumni of California universities who recently enrolled 
as University of Michigan PharmD students.
1. Financial support unequalled by any
other U.S. pharmacy school.
2. Outstanding pay .
3. Job security in economically uncertain
times.
4. Unlimited opportunities to improve
people’s lives .
5. Unparalleled career choices .
6. Continuous growth potential .
7. Life and career mobility .8. The prestige of owning a degree from
one of America’s top-ranked pharmacy
schools.
9.Membership in an influential alumni
network spanning the globe.
10.The power to apply medical knowl-
edge at the forefront of technological 
innovation.
11.Small class size to maximize individual-
ized educational experiences.
12.One-to-one learning with world-
renowned faculty .Every year, UCSD graduates choose the PharmD Program at the University
of Michigan College of Pharmacy. In fact, nearly 20 percent of our
PharmD enrollment is comprised of alumn i from California universities. 
What accounts for Michigan’s popularity among Golden Staters? First, 
we are consistently ranked among America’s top pharmacy schools. Secondly,
we consider a lot more than GPA and PCAT scores when evaluating your
application.
Earn your bachelor’s degree at UCSD, and then earn your PharmD at U-M.
That’s what many UCSD students do every year.
To learn more about the PharmD Program at Michigan, visit our Web site at
www.umich.edu/~pharmacy. Or contact the College of Pharmacy at 734-764-7312 or
at mich.pharm.admissions@umich.edu.
Still looking for a reason to make Michigan your pharmacy school? Consider these :
Your future never looked brighter.errors.
Brunsting collected her 1,000th 
assist of her career, with 17 in 
the game as well as 14 points and eight kills, while Freidenberg led the team with 10 kills, hitting .409.
On Saturday, the Tritons played 
unranked Humboldt State (5-15) at RIMAC. 
The game scores are mislead-
ing, with 24-26, 14-25 and 27-29 suggesting a tight match against veteran opposition, but the Tritons looked slightly battered from their game against Sonoma, doing only the absolute minimum to squeak past the Lumberjacks.
Coach Luyties fielded a number 
of freshmen in the campaign, but was forced to replace the under-classmen with his veterans every time a court full of freshmen fell flat. Condon pounded in 12 kills and 14 points, while Williamson posted 14 kills and 15 points. The leading assists came once more from Brunsting with 21 and fresh-man Amber Hawthorne with 22.
This week No. 17 UCSD travels 
to play the undefeated No. 2 Cal State San Bernardino Coyotes on Saturday, Nov. 9.
Readers can contact Nick Howe at 
nshowe@ucsd.eduWomenÕsÊVolleyballÊWinsÊTheirÊNinthÊStraight
/uni25B6 W. VOLLEYBALL, fromÊpageÊ12
“[Cal State Stanislaus] came out giv-ing everything and we just weren’t ready. ” /uni00A0/uni00A0/uni00A0 The Tritons regrouped in the second half but weren’t able to put one away until the 85th minute. Junior defender Hayley Johnson crossed the ball from the left to find fresh-man midfielder Cassie Callahan. Knocking the ball around in the 18-yard box, Callahan found McTigue, who headed the ball into score.
“[Demery] got around us in the back, ” said 
Armstrong. “ And with her speed, once she gets past you, you really can’t catch up to her. ” /uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0  With a lot of momentum, the Tritons looked dangerous at the end of the match, but UCSD was unable to equalize.
The loss marks the third consecutive time 
UCSD has been knocked out of the CCAA Championships in the semifinal round. /uni00A0/uni00A0/uni00A0 On the other side of the bracket, third-
seeded Chico State took a 1-0 win from second-seeded Cal State Los Angeles.
On Sunday, the two bottom seeds, Cal 
State Stanislaus and Chico State, fought for the conference championship, with the Warriors beating the Wildcats 4-0 for their first conference title in pro-gram history. With the win, Stanislaus is also guaranteed a berth in the NCAA National tournament.
Fortunately, the loss is only the second 
for the Tritons this season. Since UCSD is still ranked No. 1 in the West Region, the Tritons have clinched a national tourna-ment berth, along with fellow CCAA opponent Cal State Los Angeles and Cal State Stanislaus. 
Readers can contact Rachel Uda at ruda@
ucsd.eduTritonsÊFallÊinÊtheÊCCAAÊSemifinals,Ê2-1
/uni25B6 W. SOCCER, fromÊpageÊ12BY NICK HOWE
Associate Sports Editor
/uni00A0
CROSS COUNTRY — The Triton 
Men’s and Women’s Cross Country 
teams competed in the rainy NCAA Western Regionals in Spokane, Washington this weekend. 
Although a week ago the two 
teams posted third and fourth place finishes, Regionals proved too much for the Tritons as the women came in eighth and the men’s team fin-ished in ninth. With three of the top finishing schools, fellow CCAA opponents, the Tritons were well prepared for high-level competition.
The top performer for the Tritons 
on the women’s side was sopho-more Chia Chang, who finished eighth overall with a pace of 5:50.1 per mile, just 15 seconds slower than the champion competing for Anchorage Alaska, Ruth Keino — a native of Kapcheno, Kenya. Alaska Anchorage took the women’s side with four runners finishing in the top eight.
Coach Nate “Ronald” Garcia 
was happy with the women’s per-formance, which showed significant improvement from last year.
“That’s all that you can hope for 
[going into a meet], ” Garcia said.
On the men’s side, junior Matt 
Lenehan led the Triton men with a mile pace of 5:15.6, good for 37th overall in a field of 111 athletes. Lenehan was closely followed by seniors John Svet and Alex Corliss, and junior Kellen Levy — all coming within several seconds of Lenehan. 
Alaska Anchorage won on the 
men’s side as well, with team leader Micah Chelimo who ran a quick 30:19. He was closely followed by fellow Kenyans, Alfred and Issac Kangogo, in fourth and 11th. The Tritons were happy to have 
improved their times from last year, overcoming adversity in the rain to compete well and make it to the next level. 
UCSD will look to improve in 
the following year with a roster filled with young runners — dur-ing the pre-season training many returning athletes were cut in favor of younger freshmen athletes with more talent. The very young team this year will only improve in the years to come.
The fact that this young team did 
so well speaks to the effective coach-ing of Garcia. Garcia’s gamble in cutting his seniors may have seemed unfair in the beginning of the sea-son, but now seems like it is starting to pay off.
With returning All-American 
Chia Chang only a sophomore and many fast freshmen finishing in the top half of the field at nationals, look for the Triton women to have a exceptional season next year.
Readers can contact Nick Howe at 
nshowe@ucsd.eduMen’s Cross Country Finish 
Ninth, Women Eighth
BRIAN YIP/ GUARDIAN
“The ﬁrst half was 
the worst 45 minutes of soccer we’ve played all season. [Cal State Stanislaus] came out giving every-thing and we just weren’t ready.”
BRIAN MCMANUS
UCSD Women’s Soccer,
HEAD COACH
NOLAN  THOMAS /GUARDIAN  FILESPORTSRACHEL UDA
sports @ucsdguardian.orgCONTACT THE EDITOR12 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | M ONDAY , NOVEMBER  7, 2011 | WWW.U CSDGUARDIAN . ORG
BY N ICK HO WE
Associate Sports Editor
On Friday, the UCSD 
Women’s Volleyball team took one of its most com-
manding wins of the season against No. 23 Sonoma State.
While the Seawolves are ranked 
lower nationally than UCSD, they have a better CCAA record (16-2) than the Tritons (13-4), and much of their success has been due to the offensive strength of Seawolf freshman Kelsey Hull, who had 11 kills and 30 spikes even in their loss against UCSD.
The Tritons dug themselves into 
a hole in game one, quickly falling behind by three on a handful of errors. However, they rallied back to tie the game at eight on a kill from senior Roxanne Brunsting, just as the Seawolves started to show the first signs of weakness by commit-ting several errors in a row after two massive Hull kills.
Hull rallied her own team and 
pulled ahead by four, which put the Tritons on their heels and forced head coach Ricci Luyties to call a time out. 
The Tritons came out guns blaz-
ing and fought tooth and nail to tie the game once more at 19 on a Seawolf serving error, taking the lead 20-19 off another Brunsting kill. Brunsting continued to lead her team down the home stretch as she picked up three kills and an excel-lent serve that was handled poorly by the Seawolves, allowing freshman Sara McCutchan the game-winning kill.
Game two also saw the Tritons 
trailing at the start, as they com-mitted errors to hand the lead to the Seawolves and failed to force an error from their opposition. Again, Luyties called a timeout, with the score at 3-8 in favor of Sonoma State.
Senior Hillary Williamson and 
Brunsting came out of the timeout strong, taking a kill and a block to set the tempo. The Tritons marched back to tie the game at 11, thanks to a service ace by freshman Lauren Demos and a brilliant block on the part of senior Julia Freidenberg that tamed Hall’s attack.
Brunsting and senior Katie 
Condon led a defensive drive to keep the game close until they were faced with several Hull kills, leading to another timeout. 
Coach Luyties said that this was 
the most important call of the game.
“It was key for the comeback, it 
would have been a different situa-tion if we let them in, let them get a game, ” Luyties said.
The timeout got the Tritons back 
on track, as Condon came out with two kills and a smoking service ace, while Brunsting had several blocks and a handful of kills to take the game 26-24.
In game three, Freidenberg put 
on a clinic, taking the demoralized Seawolves for point after point.
Hull and Sonoma senior Keala 
Peterson, who had nine kills and 40 spikes, kept up a good fight — but the Seawolves couldn’t keep it together and committed 10 errors to give the game and the match to the Tritons.
Errors won and lost the match, 
with the Seawolves besting the Tritons in kills (40-36) and assists (40-31), but faltering and commit-ting 34 errors to the Tritons’ 17. Thankfully for UCSD, the Tritons’ offensive pressure forced the Seawolves into a number of bad 
See W. VOLLEYBALL,Ê page 11
BY RAC HEL UDA
Sports Editor
MEN’S WATER POLO — The 
Tritons finished their regular sea-
son this Friday, with a 14-7 win against Santa Clara before drop-ping 9-4 to UCLA in a non-confer-ence matchup.
On Friday, Nov. 4 against No. 14 
Santa Clara, the Tritons played well on both sides of the pool, setting the pace early on by netting three Tritons 
Split Their Weekend Matches
See M. WATER POLO,Ê page 10Top-Seeded UCSD Drops the Ball in the CCAA Semiﬁnals
BY RAC HEL UDA
Sports Editor
 
WOMEN’S SOCCER — In just its 
second loss of the 2011 campaign, 
the UCSD Women’s Soccer team was knocked out of the CCAA Championships in the first round against last-seeded Cal State Stanislaus.
On Friday, Nov. 4 the Tritons 
took a 2-1 loss against the Warriors, a squad that barely qualified over Sonoma State for the last remaining spot.
“We came out a little lackadai-
sical in the first half, and we paid for it, ” senior goalkeeper Kristin Armstrong said. 
Although the Tritons — argu-
ably the most dangerous set-piece finishers in the conference — were awarded five corner kicks within the first 16 minutes, they were unable to score. In the 17th minute, Cal State Stanislaus took advantage, as the Warriors’ Liz Scherrer floated a cross into the box that got caught in the 
wind and angled into the goal. /uni00A0/uni00A0/uni00A0 “W e had too many p e o p l e m a r k i n g [Karenee  Demery],  and not 
enough people on the ball, ” Armstrong said. “When she crossed it, the ball got caught in the wind and I just mistimed it. ”
Up 1-0, UCSD looked for revi-
talization from the bench, replac-ing its forwards and wingers in search of offense. But the Tritons were unable to find the net before Cal State Stanislaus’ two All-team selections, junior Alexia Poon and sophomore Karenee Demery, connected to score. 
In the 41st minute, Poon 
cut her way through the Triton midfield to play Demery behind UCSD’s backline. Demery ran onto the ball and chipped it over Armstrong to score her 12th goal of the season, putting the Warriors up 2-0 at the end of the half. 
“The first half was the 
worst 45 minutes of soccer we’ve played all season, ” head coach Brian McManus said in an interview with CCAA rep-resentatives after the match. 
See W. SOCCER,Ê page 11
NOLAN  THOMAS /GUARDIAN  FILE
On Friday, Nov. 4, the Tritons were eliminated in the 
semifinals of the CCAA Championships.W. SOCCER
Pick up the Guardian on Thursday, 11/10 for a preview of the NCAA National Tournament.Block PartyWOMEN’S VOLLEYBALL
#6 LIZZ Y ANDRE WS: 5.5
Saw limited playing time, as she was brought on and 
oﬀ the court o/f_ten, but had two solid digs.#4 ROXA NNE  BRU NSTING : 9.5
Recorded her 1000th career assist, provided great hustle and eight kills.#14 KATIE CONDON : 8.5
Led from the back and provided great hustle and determination throughout the game.#10 LAUREN D EMOS : 8
Had a good kill in game three as well as several key serves. Committed a few errors, but came up with big blocks against Hull.#32 AM BER  HAWTHORNE : 8
Provided defense for the Tritons, also recorded a double-double with 14 assists and 10 digs.#22 SARA MCC UTCHAN : 7
Did well to record the match-winning serve, as well as a handful of blocks.#2 JANESSA  WERH ANE : 8.5
Had one of her best serving games of the season, and led the team with 20 digs.#5 HIL LARY WILLIA MSON : 7.5
/T_he hardest hitter for the Tritons, but froze up and failed to record a few saves in the backline. Otherwise, was instrumental in the win.
BRIAN  YIP/GUARDIAN
The UCSD Women’s Volleyball team took a come-from-behind win against No. 23 Sonoma State on Friday, Nov. 4, while also sweeping unranked Humboldt State on Saturday, Nov. 5.Senior Roxanne Brunsting picked up her 1000th career assist as the T ritons took two wins against 
Sonoma and Humboldt this weekend.OVERHEARD  AT THE GA ME
Freidenberg , taking out the trash!”
— CRAIG ELSTEN
UCSD ANNOUNCERWOMEN’S VOLLEYBALL
PLAYE R RATINGS
UCSD VS. SONOMA STATE  |  NOV. 4, 2011