MONDAY , NOVEMBER 14, 2011 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG VOLUME 45, ISSUE 17
By Nicole ch aN
A
ssociate News Editor
     The Hillcrest/Campus shuttle route 
could be combined with the Hillcrest/Old Town route by next April, according to a proposal announced by UCSD Transporta-tion services on Nov. 7. If approved, the consolidation of the shuttle services will take effect April 2, 2012.
“Stop UCSD Hillcrest Shuttle Cuts” peti-
tion organizer Ramin Hashemi first heard about the proposal in mid-October, when Transportation Services posted a flyer near the Hillcrest shuttle stop and shuttle driv-ers passed around an informational sheet to riders. 
According to Hashemi, Hillcrest resi-
dents without cars depend largely on the current Hillcrest/Campus shuttle to com-mute to school.
For example, Muir College senior Nena 
Eichelberger moved to Hillcrest after trans-ferring to UCSD because of the transporta-tion services.
“I moved to Hillcrest and sold my car 
because the shuttle was here, ” Eichelberger said. “Those decisions were made based on the transportation system that UCSD provided. ”
According to Hashemi, the proposed 
shuttle service change could double the length of the commute for students who live in Hillcrest, North Park, Mission Hills, City Heights and other neighboring areas. 
“[The current commute] is 20 minutes 
back and forth, which is not bad at all, ” Hashemi said. “With the addition of the stops, it could take at least 35 minutes to get to La Jolla with traffic. Adding Old Town could make it 45 to 50 minutes, maybe even an hour in really bad traffic. ”
Hashemi has responded by creating a 
Facebook event urging students to protest the change, compiling a survey to gauge student usage of the current shuttle route and creating a petition to save said route. This was done to gather information for the Nov. 14 and Nov. 15 student input sessions hosted by Transportation Services.
As of press time, 46 students have signed 
the petition.
According to Hashemi, the current route 
already poses difficulties to students staying on campus in the evenings, since the buses leave every hour starting at 7 p.m. and run until 9 p.m.
“If they were to consolidate it, they need 
to add more frequency [of the shuttles] and extend the hours to 10 p.m., 10:30 p.m. or 11 p.m., ” Hashemi said. Hillcrest, Old 
Town Shuttle Routes to be Combined 
Guardian  staffers pick the premier theatres, restaurants, thrift stores and 
more of America’s finest city.BEST OF 
SAN DIEGO
See SHUTTLES, page 3By Natalie co v ate
Senior Staff Writer
Proposed changes to TritonLink and 
WebReg include the possibility of allowing 
students to switch sections without drop-ping a class.
Other possible changes include a new 
mobile site and being able to register on any smartphone, though the committee has not announced an official launch date for the changes to take effect. 
“There will be lots of changes in inte-
gration which [ACS] needs to work on, ” TritonLink Executive Committee under-graduate representative and Campuswide Senator Karen Liang said. “ A lot of people have come to me saying that it’s difficult having a lot of tabs open [for registration], so we’re making this all one window. ”
The schedule of classes, class planner 
and registration sign-up time are among the registration tools that will be included in the single-window WebReg.
The TritonLink Executive Committee is 
also discussing changing the calendar fea-ture so students can add personal events, extracurricular activities and work sched-ules to their planner in order to see if there are time conflicts. 
“We’re going to make TritonLink a lot 
simpler, ” Liang said. “We don’t even know if we are going to call it WebReg after this because [the changes will affect] the whole toolbox [of TritonLink]. ”
In addition, students can now register for 
classes via smartphone by using the m.ucsd.
edu mobile website.
The iPhone application will also be run Committee 
Proposes New Features for WebReg
See WEBREG, page 3
By Re Be cca hoRw itz
Associate News Editor
A.S. Council impeached Marshall College 
Senator Summer Perez at its meeting last 
Wednesday, Nov. 8. 
According to the A.S. bylaws, councilmem-
bers with more than three unexcused absences are eligible for impeachment. Perez had five.
At the Committee Affairs meeting Nov. 
8, councilmembers brought up legislation to excuse Perez’s absences. The motion was tabled indefinitely, meaning that it could be brought up anytime in the future. 
Perez said that she didn’t want the legisla-
tion tabled and instead wanted to excuse her absence sooner. The issue was brought up again during the night’s council meeting. According to Perez, she was impeached because her reasons for excusing the absence —  sickness —  were inadequate.
Marshall Student Committee Vice Chair 
Brianna Nelson spoke during the Nov. 8 meet-ing’s public input period. Nelson said it was unacceptable for Perez to ignore the attendance rules.
“The purpose of a senator is to represent 
our voice, ” Nelson said. “I find it inexcusable to ignore the rules you put in place. ”
Advocate General Courtney Hill motioned 
for the impeachment of Perez. 
The meeting was closed for nearly an hour, 
while council discussed whether to impeach Perez. 
Perez said the discussions revolved around 
personal issues instead of addressing the absenc-es.
“It was completely biased against me, ” Perez 
said. “It got so personal to the point where Facebook was involved, which was completely irrelevant to the whole situation. ”
Perez said she will not appeal the council’s 
decision. 
“If somebody doesn’t want me in office that 
bad that they’ d have to [impeach me], then there’s no point for me [to stay], ” Perez said. “I can still grow in other ways and still be involved on campus. ”
Marshall College Council will now reopen  
Perez’s position so interested students may apply to become her replacement. 
After reviewing new applications and con-
ducting interviews, Marshall College Council will recommend a candidate to A.S. Council, which will need to approve the final appoint-ment.
At this time no other councilmember has 
three unexcused absences.
Readers can contact Rebecca Horwitz at
rahorwit@ucsd.eduCOunCil impea CHeS maRSHall CO lleGe Sena T OR  TRanSpORTaT i O n O nline
a
.S. CO
un
C
il
INSIDE
monday
Height: 4-6 ft.
Wind: 4-7 mph
Water Temp: 62 FTuesday
Height: 4 ft.
Wind: 2-5 mph
Water Temp: 62 F
Wednesday
Height: 3-4 ft.
Wind: 2-4 mph 
Water Temp: 62 FThursday
Height: 2 ft.
Wind: 4-6 mph 
Water Temp: 62 FLOw
$3.57
optima, Chula Vista
498 Broadway & H St.
HIGH
$4.49
76, Coronado
900 Orange ave & 9th St.monday
H 62 l 50Tuesday
H 61 l 51GAS PER GALLON NIGHT WATCH FORECASTsSPOKEN
Wednesday
H 66 l 51Thursday
H 65 l 52Birdland  .................................2
Lights and Sir
ens
 ...................3
T
alking to Machines
 ...............4
Letter to the Editor
 ................5
Best of San Diego
 .................6
Sudoku
 ..................................9
Sports
 ..................................12monday Tuesd ayWe know our best is better than 
everybody else’s best.”
ANNIE  WEThE
UCSD Women’s Soccer
Senior Captain“
Wednesday Thursday
Impeached senators says she will not appeal decision to A.S. Judicial Board. Students claim proposed change would double commute time for residents of downtown area.▶  leiSuRe
best Coffee
1. Lestat’s Coffee House
3343 Adams Ave., Normal Heights2. Pannikin Coffee & Tea7467 Girard Ave., La Jolla3. Filter Coffee House 1295 University Ave., Hillcrest4. Purple Café4338 Cass St., Pacific Beach5. The Living Room1010 Prospect St., La Jolla
Coffee shops open 24-hours present a curious paradox: 
They’re perfect for the under-grad who needs to cram way past Geisel’s closing time, but they’re also perfect for another crowd: vagrants. This is pre-cisely what makes hotspots like Lestat’s Coffee House and Filter Coffee House so appealing. The coffee at these caffeine-havens can win over drunks and lap-top zombies alike, but the edge goes to Lestat’s in this matchup, where you can find amusing art work, hot baristas playing post-punk and an all-ages music venue (Lestat’s West) next door.
A short bus ride from cam-
pus can take you to one of the best brunch and coffee spots around — Pannikin Coffee & Tea. On the weekends it can be hard to find a seat in the tiny shop, but the freshly-brewed coffee and chill atmosphere makes for a fantastic afternoon of studying — or destroying your opponent on the giant chess set in the back.
In addition to coffee, the 
Purple Café has live music on the weekends and the Living Room has a hookah lounge, totally owning Starbucks in terms of entertainment — and taste.
— Arielle Sallai
MA NAG iN G  EditorWOMEN’S VOLLEYBALL HEADS TO THE NCAA TOURNAMENT. PAGE 12. 
ERIKA JOHNSON/ Guardian  fIlESee BEST OF, page 7The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  s
tudents and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2011, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. If you’re Anna Karenina, I’m the train.
General Editorial: 858-534-6580 
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Focus: focus@ucsdguardian.org
Leisure: leisure@ucsdguardian.org
Hiatus: hiatus@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-0468
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager 
Emily 
Ku 
Marketing & Advertising Director 
Brandon Katzer
Webmaster 
Bryan Smith
Marketing & Advertising Assistants 
Christine Alabastro
Christine Doo
Shilpa Sharma
Advertising Design & Layout 
Alfredo H. Vilano Jr. 
A.S. Graphic Studio  
Distributor 
Amanda KuPage Layout
Praneet Kolluru, Arielle Sallai, Janet HseuhAngela Chen
Arielle Sallai
Margaret Yau
Angela Chen
Nicole Chan
Rebecca Horwitz
Laira Martin
Margaret Yau
Madeline Mann
Rachel Uda
Nicholas Howe
Ren Ebel
Mina Nilchian
Arielle Sallai
Monica Haider
Emily Pham
Andrew Oh
Nolan Thomas
Nathan Toung
Rebekah HwangEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
Associate News Editors
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion EditorSports EditorAssociate Sports EditorHiatus EditorFocus EditorLeisure EditorCopy Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo EditorAssociate Design EditorArt Editor
Hayley Bisceglia-Martin
Melody ChernDevelopment Editor
Design Program Director2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2011 | www.U C SDGUARDIAN .O RG
ad name: CW JD Ad2 size: ½ page H —10" x 8"
publication: UCSD - “The Guardian” pub date: 11 /14/11
gkm contact: Kathleen Maloney phone: 760.438.8100 ext.117 What is the law?
        A weapon to be wielded?
 Or more than that?
        A set of tools.
           A creative approach.    A helping profession and collaborative process.
 Explore  the wide scope of the law
              in a school devoted to the big picture.
 www.CaliforniaWestern.edubirdland By Rebekah Dyer
Passive aggressi ve By Irene Chiang
COMPILED BY Rebecca Horwitz | associate news editor
 CURRENTS
UCSD SAN DIEGO CALIFORNIA
▶The National Defense Industrialization 
Association honored Thomas Muschamp for his collaboration with researchers from Scripps Institution of Oceanography in making a portable weather station.
▶RIMAC business officer Charles Massey was 
honored as the UCSD Veteran of the Year on Nov. 9. Massey served in the Navy from 1975-1979. 
▶UCSD philanthropist Anne Ratner died at age 
100. ▶Superior Court Judge Ronald Prager ruled that a San Diego landlord has the right to evict a medical marijuana dispensary. 
▶A man robbed taco shop Taco Si Senor after 
ordering food on Nov. 12. The suspect ordered food, and then grabbed money from the cash register while the cashier was making change.
▶San Diego prosecuter Christine Trevino 
committed suicide Nov. 10 after being pulled over in Oceanside. Trevino shot herself while a police officer tried to speak to her through her window. ▶ Participants of the annual UC Students of Color 
Conference found a noose at UC Davis on Nov. 13. The yellow ribbon, usually used to honor Veterans Day, was tied to a tree and read “Use this ribbon as a noose.”
▶ A 96-year-old man killed his 81-year-old wife on 
the morning of Nov. 12. The man, Milton Weiss, has a history of dementia. Weiss was arrested and now faces murder charges. His wife died of blunt force trama. THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2011 | www.U C SDGUARDIAN .O RG 3
LIGHTS & SIRENS
Friday, Nov. 4
12:36 a.m.: InformationAn unknown female was seen breaking a window at the Humanities and Social Sciences Building. Information only.
7:49 p.m.: InjuryAn employee suffered from contact with hot oil at Plaza Café. Refused 
transportation to hospital.8:04 p.m.: FireThere were “flames in the oven” at Mesa Verde Hall. Transferred to other 
agency (Housing and Maintenance). Saturday, Nov. 52:20 a.m.: Citizen contactSomeone was “urinating in public” at Tenaya Hall. Information only.
12:15 a.m.: InjuryA young female ran into a metal beam at Price Center East. Transported to hospital.11:39 p.m.: DisturbanceTwo males were involved in a verbal argument at The Village Building 1. Unable to locate. Sunday, Nov. 64:16 a.m.: VandalismA glass window worth $500 at the Humanities and Social Sciences Building was “destroyed. ” Report 
taken.10:23 a.m.: Medical aid A young female was “complaining of neck pain” but was conscious and breathing. Transported to hospital.
11:12 a.m.: Medical aid A young female hit her head at Warren Field. Transported to 
hospital. Monday, Nov. 77:35 a.m.: Abandoned vehicleAn unoccupied vehicle “[appeared] to have run up” on a curb at Lot 704. Unable to locate.
9:01 a.m.: Welfare check An adult male was being “loud and belligerent” to patrons at Perks. Stay 
away order issued. 10:03 a.m.: DisturbanceThe reporter heard someone yelling and a toddler crying at La Jolla Del Sol Apartments. Checks OK.
9:53 p.m.: Possession of marijuana Three adult males were seen smoking marijuana by a computer lab at UNEX K. Unable to locate.
 Tuesday, Nov. 82:30 a.m.: Noise disturbanceThere was “stomping and loud talking” at Asia Hall. Unable to 
locate.10:51 a.m.: Medical aidA young female at Asia Hall was having stomach pains but was conscious and breathing. Transported to hospital.
11:02 a.m.: Medical aidAn “elderly male” at Regents Road was feeling dizzy.  Transported to 
hospital.12:13 p.m.: InformationAn “unknown type of accident” happened on North I-5. Transferred 
to other agency. Wednesday, Nov. 912:55 a.m.: DisturbanceA large group was being loud on Library Walk.  Verbal warning 
issued. 11:40 a.m.: Collision no injuryA UCSD shuttle buss was “sideswiped” at Voigt Drive. Report 
taken.3:35 p.m.: Suspicious person(s)Two males entered the women’s bathroom at Geisel Library. Information only.11:20 p.m.: Welfare checkA female was “yelling for several seconds” at Sixth College Apartments. Unable to locate.
11:43 p.m.: Noise disturbanceThere were “possible fireworks” at Che Café. Checks OK.
— Compiled by Sarah Kang  
Staff WriterNo details have been released 
regarding any changes to the hours of the shuttle service.
“If anything, I really hope it does 
not come down to adding the two routes together, ” Hashemi said.
Currently, there has been no 
large-scale rallying among students, Hashemi said. 
“The reality is that we’re in a 
time and place where we’re fac-ing budget cuts, ” Eichelberger said. “[But] there has to be a way to not compromise the shuttles. ”
According to Eichelberger, the 
upcoming informational sessions encourage students to share alterna-tive solutions.
“Someone said to take out the 
Old Town altogether and suggest-ed taking the [MTS] 10 instead, ” Eichelberger said. “[Hillcrest Hospital] Patients don’t have the bus sticker and wouldn’t be able to use the 10. These shuttles are designed to shuttle patients, doc-tors, undergraduate students and graduate students. ”
The MTS 10 goes from the 
Hillcrest Hospital to Old Town, a similar route to the proposed con-solidation.  
Eichelberger said she has heard 
other promising solutions and believes a compromise is possible.
“It’s just a fact that we’re under-
going budget cuts,” Eichelberger 
said. “It’s important to recognize that you can’t take away how people get to class. ”
The informational sessions will 
be held Monday, Nov. 14 from 9-11 a.m. at the Thornton Hospital and Tuesday, Nov. 15 from 11:30 a.m-1 p.m. at the Hillcrest Hospital.
As of press time, a representa-
tive from the Transportation Policy department could not be reached for comment.
Readers can contact Nicole Chan at 
n3chan@ucsd.edu.Students Create Online Petition Protesting Hillcrest Shuttle Change
▶ SHUTTLES, from page 1
primarily through this mobile site. Though the iPhone application will still be available, the website makes it possible for students who use differ-ent smartphones to access the appli-cation’s features.
“ As long as you have a phone with 
Internet, you can use the m.ucsd.edu 
website, ” Liang said. “Most students use this for the map function, so we are trying to make it so that there are more features. ”
The committee has also proposed 
changes to TritonLink’s degree audit feature.
“Right now, it’s just a white page 
with a bunch of letters and numbers on it, ” Liang said. “We want to make it prettier and more user-friendly [by being easier to read and com-prehend]. ”
These changes will most likely 
not occur until after the changes to WebReg are implemented. 
The TritonLink Executive 
Committee consists of Vice Chancellor Penny Rue and Assistant Vice Chancellor for Telecommuting and Communications Min Yao, along with 13 administrative mem-bers, Liang and a graduate repre-sentative. 
The committee meets once per 
quarter.
The last meeting took place on 
Oct. 28, and the next one is sched-uled to take place on Jan. 27. 
This is when the committee will 
receive an update from ACS regard-ing the progress of implementing these changes.
Readers can contact Natalie Covate at 
ncovate@ucsd.edu.Committee Looks to Revise WebReg’s Degree Audit Functions“ T he reality is that we’re in a time and place where 
we’re facing budget cuts. But there has to be a way to 
compromise the shuttles .”
NENA EIchElBErGEr
Senior, M Uir College
▶ WEBREG from page 1
 Join The Guardian
APPliCATionS online  AT UCSD g UA r D i A n . org /J o BS.OPINIONMargaret Yau
opinion @ucsdguardian.org
CON taC t  t H e  e DI tO r
4 tHe uC SD g uar D IaN  | MOND aY , NOV eM Be r 14, 2011 | www. u CSD g uar D IaN.Or g
This year alone, presidents at four out of 23 California State 
Universities have retired, and another five are projected to retire in the coming year from San Francisco, Northridge, Fullerton, San 
Bernardino and the California Maritime Academy. According to Cal State Chancellor Charles B. Reed, there has never been a time in the university system’s history when there were this many administrative vacancies and retiring employees.
The reason for this sudden trend has been speculated to correlate with 
the high number of college professionals at retiring age — the mean age of college presidents is 61. The executive position has also become increasingly stressful over the last few years due to the poor economy and its relentless toll on the California education system. The Cal State system enrolls a stag-gering 412,000 students, the largest amongst other four-year colleges, and is facing funding cuts of around 650 million dollars. Potential cuts will total nearly 100 million dollars and a 21 percent tuition increase is in the near future. Presidents who are hired at a time like this must be able to deal with a slew of problems — student and faculty anger over tuition hikes, limited class selection and lower wages — all while under the harsh criticism of the board of trustees. 
There is no doubt that the replacements found for Cal State campuses 
must be qualified to change the status quo, and the current selection process has candidates jumping through hoops. The Cal State Board of Trustees along with the Board of Trustees’ Special Committee on Presidential Selection and Compensation decides on the president after a primary and secondary review panel as well as a campus visit. 
There has been a movement to eliminate the campus visit to streamline 
the application process, which is important to ensure that positions are filled by the upcoming school year. Some argue that this will increase anonymity in the selection process, but there are other ways to bring a face to a resume efficiently, such as the use of conference video calls. Selection of new presi-It is a truth universally acknowl-edged that doomsayers deter-mined to point out the slippery 
slope of politics will always reference 1984 . With its vision of Big Brother, 
trackers and the thought police, George Orwell’s political classic has become the tired go-to for anyone threatened by big government — and even, as of last Tuesday, for members of the government itself. On Nov. 8, the novel was referenced six times by the Supreme Court while hearing the case of whether police should be able to track anyone via GPS. 
Here’s the story: Police convicted 
suspected drug dealer Antoine Jones (the Jones in this United States v. Jones 
case) due to evidence gathered from a GPS planted in his car. The evidence was thrown out when the U.S. Court of Appeals ruled it as violating the Fourth Amendment (no unreasonable search or seizure) because the device was planted without a warrant. 
At first glance, planting a track-
ing device seems to be analogous to ransacking or bugging a citizen’s house, both of which violate the Constitution. But prior cases about tracking, and the pace of advancing technology, are raising new questions about privacy — to the point where the current debate is mainly focusing on the semiotics of whether placing a GPS in a car is “searching. ” The heart of the case is about the potential of technology and the precedent this case would set by redefining the pub-lic and private spheres. 
This isn’t the first time the 
Supreme Court has faced a tech-relat-ed privacy case. Take United States 
vs. Knotts , the 1983 case that ruled 
that police could track cars moving interstate ia beepers, since someone traveling in public shouldn’t have any expectations of privacy under the plain view rule. According to Deputy Solicitor General Michael Dreeban, quoted in the Washington Post , infor-
mation people choose reveal to the world, “such as movements in a car on a public roadway” are unprotected.
Under the Knotts ruling, GPS 
tracking should be allowed. But in 1983, GPS devices didn’t exist, we weren’t experiencing 500-percent increases in Manhattan security cameras and the notion of “electron-ic privacy” was relatively new. But today, when GPS-enabled iPhones serve as the world’s most effective security blankets, the public and pri-vate are converging and we are closer to losing our notion of both than ever before. Thankfully, the justices seem wary of following the Knotts ruling too closely, and have been questioning whether the police could bug them (answer: yes). 
Ultimately, new technology 
applied under old rulings and old times could mean that bugging license plates or clothes in the name of mass surveillance is seen as essen-tially the same as beepers in cars — after all, people are in public places, so it should all be permissible.
 Supreme Court 
Debates Mass Surveillance in 1984-esque Case
A Leave of AbsencePhiliP jia/Guardian
The California State System will experience an exodus of five of its university presidents next year, 
prompting a selection process that is crucial for the future of the California college system.
BY r e Va t H Y SaM Pa tH -KuMa r • St aF F w rIt er
QUICK TAKESSeveral St ate S including ge orgia, in diana, Kan SaS,  South ca rolina, te nneS Se e, te xaS and 
WiSc
onSi
n have implemented photo id
 requirement S 
for voting.
The proposed voter ID law purports to stop 
widespread voter fraud — a crime that sim-
ply does not exist.  The voter ID law is only effec-
tive in preventing impersonation of other voters at the polls. Most states use provisional ballots, which are used when voters cannot prove up-front that they are eligible to vote. Their votes are recorded, but are not counted unless they provide the required documentation to poll workers. For this reason, the problem of impersonation fraud is largely unlikely. 
Out of the 400 million votes cast in general 
elections since 2000, there’s only one recorded attempt at impersonation fraud, and nine unre-solved cases where the crime was suspected but not proven.
 
Many accusations are improperly labeled as 
“voter fraud” when they are mistaken for other types of election misconduct. 
Allegations include ballot tampering, inaccu-
rate vote tallying, vote buying, voting by ineligible citizens and multiple voting in the voter’s own name — all misdemeanors that should not be looped into the category of voter fraud.
Furthermore, allegations that arise from 
unsubstantial claims make voter fraud appear far more prevalent than is actually the case. Technological glitches in voting machines, for example, can result in inaccurate tallies. 
Honest mistakes are also oftentimes at fault — 
a convict may attempt to vote without knowing that he has been rendered temporarily ineligible to vote. Some cases of fraud are enacted by out-side actors and not the voters themselves– in the past, opposing parties have intentionally spread misinformation as to the proper procedures for voting, or hired thugs to intimidate voters at the polls.Voter fraud has only ever existed in a few isolated cases — implementation of this law is unnecessary and would simply divert attention away from real election issues.
— Hilary lE E
Staff WriterVoter Fraud is Not Prevalent Issue Political Scheme in Disguise ID Law Increases Voter SecurityTalking to 
Machines
angela chen
shchen@ucsd.edu
On Nov. 8, Mississippi became the 31st state in the past decade to approve tougher 
voter ID laws. 
Supporters say that these laws are good cau-
tious measures that uphold the integrity of the voting process by keeping it secure and demo-cratic. 
While some groups such as the NAACP and 
ACLU are considering challenging the laws in court with the claim that the language in the laws is vague and could suppress minor-ity votes, Chris Elam, a spokesman for the Republican Party of Texas disagrees. He says that the law includes a “laundry list” of exemp-tions for people who may have a hard time obtaining the required identification, such as living more than 50 miles away from the closest DMV .
These laws are necessary to eliminate voter 
fraud. Without ID checks at the polls, there little to no way to track how many illegal votes are cast. 
From stuffing ballot boxes during the Gilded 
Age to the Georgia State Senate Seat in 1962 where supposed voters were out of town or incarcerated at the time, the United States has had a long history of electoral fraud.
 The Georgia State Senate race involved 
future president Jimmy Carter, who was able to get the results overturned.
Sen. Joey Fillingale (R-Miss.) says that the 
laws create more open and honest elections, and while the law isn’t a cure-all, it keeps people “in the cemetery” from voting.
The fact of the matter is, the United States 
holds a long history with voter fraud and these laws add an extra safeguard of security and integrity in the voting process, help cut down on fraud and ultimately keep the voting process democratic.
— alEk s l Ev in
Staff WriterLike the Jim Crow laws of the past, new legisla-tion is being passed that would significantly 
affect the voting rights of those without gov-ernment-issued identification. By passing voter ID laws, politicians restrict the right to vote of minorities, the poor and the youth who dispro-portionately vote Democratic.
About 11 percent of voters nationwide will 
be affected by these new laws, according to the Brennan Center for Justice at NYU. Specifically, 15 percent of low-income voters and 18 percent of young voters will be restricted because they don’t have proper identification. This is especially troubling since 68 percent of voters ages 18 to 29 voted for Barack Obama in 2008. 
The NAACP states that 25 percent of blacks 
do not have the proper documentation to vote under these laws, and 74 percent of blacks lean Democratic, according to the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies.
This year 34 states have considered voter 
ID legislation — five of which have already passed laws.  Of these five, Wisconsin and South Carolina will be battleground states in 2012. Considering that Republican governors passed these laws and how disproportionately Democratic the affected people are, it is undoubt-edly an underhanded political move.
It is blatantly obvious that some Republicans 
are enacting these laws to disenfranchise Democratic-leaning voters. The Republican House Speaker of New Hampshire, Bill O’Brien, said these laws should be passed to restrict col-lege students who will vote liberally. Conservative blogger Matthew Vadum argued that letting the poor vote is un-American since they will vote for additional welfare programs.
The Brennan Center concluded 44 millionths 
of 1 percent of votes are cast fraudulently. There is no problem, only a cheap political scheme to get ahead.
— saad asad
Staff WriterSee Presidents, page 5tHe uC SD g uar D IaN  | MOND aY , NOV eM Be r 14, 2011 | www. u CSD g uar D IaN.Or g 5
dents must be prudent, yes, but the process must be effi-
cient enough to account for the dire demand for presiden-tial replacements. 
In the past, university trustees have increased college 
presidents’ salaries to sky-high amounts in order to attract more distinguished administrators. This summer, Elliot Hirshman, the new president of San Diego State University, was offered an annual salary of $400,000, a $100,000 pay increase from the previous president. Steep salary increases may attract a wider and perhaps more promising applicant pool, but California salaries are by no means low. Other states are facing the similar budget cuts, and according the Chronicle of Higher Education’s executive compensation database, California’s executive salaries are in line with other states that have major public higher education sys-tems like Texas and New Y ork. The managing principal of AGB Search, Jamie Ferrare, said that the number of appli-cants vying for these top positions makes the competition intense; attracting candidates to the position isn’t the issue, it is all about state universities choosing the right person. 
In response to this salary raise, many lawmakers 
including Gov. Jerry Brown proposed legislation that limits the power trustees have on setting compensation for cam-pus administrators. This will ensure that others also have a say in how much Cal State administrators get paid, to avoid drastic decisions made solely by the board of trustees.
Ultimately, well-experienced presidents are stepping 
down from their positions and it is important that Cal State Universities find suitable replacements to run their campuses. UCSD will face a similar situation this coming year when Chancellor Marye Anne Fox steps down after her seven-year term. It is crucial that schools focus on finding strong leaders for their campuses by streamlining their selection procedures and being realistic about the fact that perfect replacements will not be hired just by increas-ing monetary compensation.
Readers can contact Revathy Sampath Kumar at  rsampath@
ucsd.edu▶ Presidents, from page 4
Ever wonder what they DO in 
those ofﬁ  ces on the 40th ﬂ  oor?
A Day in the Life of Sydney Walker
Manager, Business Tax Advisory 
Ernst & Young, LLP
MS Tax (05) and Adjunct Faculty Member
School of Taxation, Golden Gate University
A career as a tax or accounting professional may not be what you expected.
Be there in 12 months or less. Earn a Masters in Taxation or a 
Masters of Accountancy with Internship opportunity.
Programs start throughout the year — chat with an enrollment 
counselor now at 1-888-GGU-EDU1 or info@ggu.edu.
QuiT e Frankly By Lior Schenk
Le tter  tO tHe eD It Or
Dear Editor,
Last week there was a rally against 
budget cuts and tuition increases.
Since the 2000-01 school year, 
expenditure per student has gone 
down 17 percent while tuition has increased 242 percent. These changes were coupled with state divestment in higher education. In 2000-01, tuition was 19 percent of expenditure per student, but in 2011-12 tuition will be 46 percent of expenditure per student. The cost of higher education is shift-ing from the California public to the private individual.
Y our coverage of last week’ s rally 
was both unflattering and factually inaccurate. The event was planned as a response to the potential plan to increase tuition by 80 percent over four years. W e did not learn that the Regents had all but rejected this plan until a week before the rally, when much of our publicity and message were established. Furthermore, one person said ‘occupy this crosswalk’ once. No one ‘screamed’ it while we marched through the cross walk, and no chant of ‘occupy crosswalk’ occurred, which could justify refer-ring to the entire event as ‘Occupy Crosswalk. ’ A video on Y ouT ube of the rally can attest to this egregious journalistic fabrication, which (while humorous to those actually there) betrays the complete failure of your staff to complete simple fact checks or actually attend events they cover.
Public education is a public good 
and an individual right. A well-educated population is a more capable work force and a better prepared electorate. In an advanced-industrial or service economy, denial of access to higher education may be the denial of the ability to get a job. And denying a person the ability to work for a liv-ing is denying that person the right to exist. Higher education, at that point, becomes a human right.
W e are attending, teaching for and 
working for the UC in a time of crisis. The public good and human right of public higher education is in jeopardy of being permanently dis-mantled. Students, faculty and staff have been all but excluded from the decision-making process reserved for a constitutionally and democrati-cally autonomous Board of Regents. However, the Regents should not even have to make crisis decisions. But citizens of California have been hamstrung by Prop 13, which limits taxation on corporate property and imposes super-majority requirements on the state legislature to pass state budgets and tax policy. W e all have a responsibility to defend public education by helping to fix the university system and the state.
Last week on the same day as 
“Occupy Crosswalk, ” Cal students engaging in peaceful civil disobedi-ence were repeatedly struck by police who were attempting to disperse them. Violence against peaceful pro-testers is violence against free speech, since it invokes fear in those who would otherwise speak freely. There is a vigil in response to this unfortunate event in front of Geisel at 7 p.m. on T uesday, Nov. 15.
—Kevin Quirolo
Marshall College, Senior
Anti-Privatization Rally 
Was Misrepresented
▶ The Guardian  welcomes letters from its readers. 
All letters must be addressed, and written, to 
the editor of the Guardian . Letters are limited 
to 500 words, and all letters must include the writer’s name, college and year (undergraduates), department (graduate students or professors) or city of residence (local residents). A maximum of three signatories per letter is permitted. The Guardian Editorial Board reserves the right to 
edit for length, accuracy, clarity and civility. The Editorial Board reserves the right to reject letters for publication. Due to the volume of mail we receive, we do not confirm receipt or publication of a letter.Salary Increases Unnecessary for Solid Candidates6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2011 | www.U C SDGUARDIAN .O RG
At first I didn’t recognize my symptoms as 
mental illness – I thought I was just having some bad days. Then, I learned that 1 in 4 adults experience mental health challenges such as depression, anxiety, bipolar disorder and others. I got help and now I am moving forward with my life. Recovery is possible and getting help is an important first step.Mental illness  
can affect anyone.
Up2SD.org/yourlifeRead up to recognize the signs.
COMPETITIVE SCHOLARSHIPS FOR
MARINE SCIENCE
Programs offering scholarships include:
• Applied Mathematics and Computational Science (AMCS)• Bioscience (B)• Chemical and Biological Engineering (CBE)• Chemical Science (ChemS)• Computer Science (CS)• Earth Science and Engineering (ErSE)• Electrical Engineering (EE)• Environmental Science and Engineering (EnSE)
• Marine Science (MarSE)• Materials Science and Engineering (MSE) 
•
 Mechanical Engineering (ME)Master’s and PhD students will benefit from the 
extensive scholarship package that includes:
• Full tuition
• Monthly living allowance• Housing• Relocation support• Health and dental insurance
Eligible students may apply immediately for MS/PhDprograms starting in September 2012.
For complete information & details visit: 
www.kaust.edu.sa
Email: admissio ns@kaust.edu.sa
P
hone: +966 (2) 808-3428/9
King Abdullah University of Science and Technology
An international, graduate university located on the
shores of the Red Sea in Saudi Arabialifestyle
THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2011 | www.U C SDGUARDIAN .O RG 7
leisureARIEllE SAllAI
leisure @ucsdguardian.orgCONTACT THE EDITOR
The Bes T  of 
san Diego
Best Beach
Windansea Beach 
6800 Neptu Ne 
pl
ace, 
la J
olla
Be st veggie 
restaurant
sipz fusion ca fé
5501 
cl
airemo Nt 
me
sa Blvd.,
cl
airemo Nt
Best weed 
dispensary
san diego organic collective
2731 shelter isla Nd d
rive,
oceaN
 
Be
ach
Best 21+ venue
the cas Ba h2501 kett
Ne
r 
Bl
vd.,
little 
it
aly
Best all-ages 
venue
house of Bl ues
1055 5th ave., dow NtowN
Best Bo ok store
dJ Wills Books
7
461 girard ave., la 
Jo
lla
Best record 
store
lou’s re cords
434 N. 
co
ast 
hw
y 101,
e
Nc
iNi
tas
Best food truck
de vilicious
l
ocatio Ns 
va
ry
 continued from pg. 1
Be sT california Bu rri To s
1. Lucha Libre Gourmet Taco Shop
1810 West Washington St., 
m
ission Hills
2. Vallarta Express Mexican Eatery4277 
genesee 
Ave., c
lairemont m
esa
3. Don Carlos Taco Shop737 
pear
l St., La Jolla
4. Rigoberto’s Taco Shop6990 La Jolla Blvd., La Jolla5. Cotixan Mexican Food4370 
genesee 
Ave., c
lairemont
In the battle against obesity, San Diego has clearly chosen the (win-
ning) side of artery-clogging, heart-pounding excess with its uniquely local creation, the California burrito. Vallarta, Don Carlos, Rigoberto’s and Cotixan may boast a delightfully “authentic” sketchy atmosphere and relatively low prices, but by and large, their burrito quality stays the same. A different salsa here, more crisp fries there — each burrito packs a home-spun punch that keeps students argu-ing for days about their favorites. 
But the best may well be Lucha 
Libre. The shop is the furthest from campus, but its over-the-top decor and Surf ’n Turf take on the SoCal classic gives the California burrito a seafood spin that is unmatched by the other options on the list. Oh, and they use fresh avocados. Win. 
— 
ma
rgaret Yau
mAnAg ing ed itor
Be sT T hrifT  
shops
1. Cerebral Palsy United1454 
gar
net Ave., pacific 
Beach 
2. Goodwill1430 
gar
net Ave., pacific 
Beach
3. Buffalo Exchange1007 
gar
net Ave., pacific 
Beach
4. Thrift Trader1135 
gar
net Ave, pacific 
Beach
3939 i
owa St., nort
h par
k
5. Penny Pincher 4508 
c
ass St., pacific 
BeachThrifting enthusiasts, rejoice — Pacific Beach is just for 
you. Second-hand shoppers and bargain hunters alike can feel the rush of finding a perfect deal and hit up all the right thrifting spots by staying in one neighborhood. Pacific Beach has a plethora of places avail-able, all within near vicinity of each other. Spend an afternoon dedicated to searching the crowded racks of Cerebral Palsy United and Goodwill (both are charities), or if you’re willing to spend a little more money, Buffalo Exchange has an extra trendy selection of second-hand clothes. The rest of the list is also great for picking up knick-knacks, electronics and even books on a tight budget, leaving more money for what really matters — booze.
— 
mi
na ni
lchian
fo cu S ed itor
more on pg. 10Daniel  CaDDell/Guardian  FileMiChael  Tsai/Guardian  File10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2011 | www.U C SDGUARDIAN .O RG
Best korean BBq
manna korean BBq
4428 coNv oy st ., ke arNy me sa
Be st (hip) B ar
el ca mino
2400 
iNd
ia 
st
., 
li
ttle 
it
aly
Best (Bro) Bar
pB sh ore cl u B
4343 
oc
eaN
 Blvd., 
pac
ific Beach
Best local 
Br
ewery
karl strauss Bre Wi ng co.
1
044 
wa
ll 
st
., 
la J
olla
Best cr aft Beer 
se
lection
ha milton’s ta vern1521 30th 
st
., 
so
uth 
pa
rk
Best cluB
fl uxx500 4th 
av
e., 
dowNtowN
Best Burger
ho dad’s5010 Newport 
av
e., 
oc
eaN
 Beach
Best ka raoke
J mu sic s tudio
4620 coNv oy st ., ke arNy me sa
Best Breakfast
has h ho use a go- go
36
28 5th 
av
e., 
hi
llcrest
continued from pg. 7
Be sT places To 
exp
anD
 your 
minD
1. Balboa Park
1549 e
l p
rado, do
wntown
2. Torrey Pines State Reserve12600 
nort
h tor
rey p
ines ro
ad, La Jolla
3. Museum of Contemporary Art: La Jolla700 
p
rospect St., La Jolla
4. Old Town San Diego State Historic Park4002 Wallace St., o
ld to
wn
5. Mt. Soledad6905 La Jolla Scenic 
dri
ve, 
La Jolla
While San Diego may not have a reputation for its fertile creativity, it does offer a few 
choice opportunities to broaden your horizons — especially with a recreational or medicinal aid. If you’re stripped for cash, Mt. Soledad is the perfect place to catch an incredible sunset, or simply reenact the “whale’s vagina” scene from “ Anchorman” a few dozen times. 
Old Town takes you back in time to 
a strange pre-Civil War world of fudge and saltwater taffy, while the Museum of Contemporary Art’s seaside La Jolla location (also free if you’re under 26) houses a consis-tently fascinating body of some of modern art’s most provocative work. For the soul searcher, the miles of hiking trails and natural tide pools at Torrey Pines provide some of the most gor-geous sights in the city. 
But only Balboa Park has it all: fantastic 
museums, massive awe-inspiring architecture and the world-famous San Diego Zoo. Still not sold? Three words: Japanese Friendship Garden.
— 
re
n eb
el
HiAt u S ed itor
Be sT 
places for 
ch
ocola T
e
1. Extraordinary Desserts1430 
u
nion St., Little i
taly
2929 5th Ave., Banker’s Hill2. Sprinkles Cupcakes8855 Villa La Jolla 
dri
ve, La Jolla
3. Elizabethan Desserts155 Quail 
gar
dens dri
ve, e
ncinitas 
4. Babycakes3766 5th Ave., Hillcrest5. Ghirardelli Soda Fountain & Chocolate Shop643 5th Ave., 
do
wntown 
The mocha cupcake at Sprinkles may be an excellent treat in 
itself, venture outside of La Jolla to try one of San Diego’s many dessert destinations.
Take an afternoon drive north 
to Encinitas and visit Elizabethan Desserts, a quaint retro-style bakery tucked in Quail Gardens, carrying American cakes, cookies and cup-cakes. Be sure to try Rasmary’s Baby — a cupcake with raspberry butter-cream hand dipped in dark choco-late and topped off with raspberries. 
Extraordinary Desserts is a 
required stop for any chocolate enthusiast. The Little Italy location features an expanded menu of savory items, beer and wine, while the original Balboa Park spot dishes up the same famous desserts (featured on The Food Network’s “Best Thing I Ever Ate”) without the extras and in a more intimate setting (candles and all), perfect for enjoying cake and coffee with a hot date or a group of friends.
For those who get sweet-tooth 
drunchies, Babycakes in Hillcrest — a bar that serves desserts with extra sweet cocktails — is the perfect remedy. Or stop by Ghirardelli Soda Fountain & Chocolate Shop after bar-hopping in the Gaslamp — and try to fool the workers into thinking you didn’t already get a free sample. 
— 
ni
cole ch
an
AS So ci At e neW S ed itorBe sT froyo 
shops
1. Rockie’s Frozen Yogurt7612 Linda Vista 
ro
ad, c
lairemont
2. Yogurt Mill935 Broadway, 
e
l c
ajon
3. Yogurt on the Rocks1886 
gar
net Ave., pacific 
Beach
4. Yogurtland855 
gar
net Ave., pacific 
Beach
5. Penguin Yogurt Factory9621 
m
ission gor
ge ro
ad, Santee
The small, cozy and family-owned Rockie’s Frozen Yogurt will win 
you over with its fresh red velvet yogurt. The froyo is smooth and flavorful — without the duck face-inducing tart of most froyo places. With the largest variety of fresh-tast-ing and sugar-free yogurt — ranging from basic strawberry to mocha chip and the more adult butter rum — it’s no wonder that Rockie’s is a popular, locally acclaimed favorite for tradi-tional frozen yogurt.
Yogurt Mill is another local spot 
worthy of the hype, with its deli-cious, generously served propor-tions. Seriously, stack a 2-liter yogurt monster for only $6.50 — Go big or go home.
As for the rest: Definitely try 
Yogurt on the Rocks’ unique Pacific Beach Berry flavor, topped with coconut lychee. Chain Yogurtland is a great, affordable choice for fans of tart and icy froyo. And Penguin Yogurt Factory sells 100 percent fat-free froyo that’s melt-in-your-mouth soft — plus 42+ unique toppings that include four different flavors of mochi and ten dessert syrups.
— 
em
ily ph
am
co pY ed itorBe sT Thea T res
1. Old Globe Theatre1363 Old Globe Way, Balboa Park 2. La Jolla Playhouse2910 La Jolla Village Drive, La Jolla3. Spreckels Theatre121 Broadway, Downtown4. Cygnet Theatre4040 Twiggs St., Old Town5. Lyceum Theatre79 Horton Plaza, Downtown
The Lyceum, Cygnet and Old Globe are all smaller venues offering older (read: not as comfortable) seats and sets, and occasionally, 
parking obstacles. Although a spot in any of these theatres guaran-tees an intimate, almost eye-to-eye view with the actors, the setups definitely lack the scrolls, balconies and historical architecture of the more expensive Spreckels Theatre. 
To compensate, two of these venues offer show discounts. The 
Cygnet offers half-off prices if you decide to return for another show-ing of the same performance (perfect for gifting tickets), and the Old Globe — located near beautiful Balboa Park — has $20 tickets for attendees who are under 30 (just show your ID at the box office).
Closer to home, a main draw of the La Jolla Playhouse is its con-
venient location right next to Revelle College. In addition to boasting four theatres that can accommodate both larger and smaller produc-tions, and easy parking for the off-campus crowd, it offers a “pay what you can” program. For one Saturday matinee of each play, 100 tickets — two maximum per person — are on sale for $1 minimum. 
— Angela 
ch
en
ed itor in  c Hi efBe sT (close) escapes
1. Julian
m
ain St., Julian
2. Barona Resort & Casino1932 Wildcat 
c
anyon rd., 
Lakeside
3. Oceanside Pier1540 
n. 
Harbor dri
ve, oceanside
4
. Cuyamaca Rancho State Park
13652 Highway 79, Julian5. Coronado Beach1500 
or
ange Ave., c
oronado
It’s time to leave campus and the judging confines of La Jolla proper. Pack up your car, grab a map (or, you know, your 
iPhone) and just leave. For some, driving an hour and 15 min-utes to sample the best pie in Southern California is a crazy waste of time. For others, it’s perfectly logical. If you fall into the second category, take a scenic day trip to Julian to bask in its small town charm — and its apple pie. If gambling is more your style, head over to Barona Resort & Casino, where the overwhelming allure of endless slot machines and blackjack tables will pull you in and never let go. Or if water is more your style, spend a day in Oceanside, Cuyamaca Rancho State Park or Coronado.
— 
ma
rgaret Yau
mAnAg ing ed itorJoseph  ho/Guardian  File
pho To Cour Tesy oF isaa C hsieh8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2011 | W W W.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
CAMPUS 11.14-11.20CALENDAR
Docculture Series Presents:
The Interrupters@
THE LOFT • 8pmTUE 11.15MON 11.14
6pm
MOBILE APPLICATIONS DEVELOPMENT 
INFORMATION SESSION- ROOM 201, UCSD EXTENSION
Want to create an app for that? This 
information session is for those interested in learning about our Mobile Applications Development Program. This professional certificate provides advanced training for smartphone application enthusiasts. UCSD Box Office: (858) 534-8497 artpower@ucsd.edu
6:30pm
BIRCH AQUARIUM AT SCRIPPS: 
EVENING LECTURE SERIES- BIRCH AQUARIUM AT THE SCRIPPS INSTITUTION OF OCEANOGRAPHY AT UCSD
Coral reefs are among the most productive 
and biodiverse environments on the planet. Join marine ecologist Stuart Sandin as he describes his travels to conduct scientific research aimed at understanding and protecting these fragile ecosystems.Visitor Services: (858) 534-5771, aquariuminfo@ucsd.edu
THU 11.17
6pm
SLOW FOOD PRESENTS: THANKSGIVING 
DINNER- GREAT HALL  
Come enjoy succulent Heritage turkeys raised by 4H 
students and prepared by Chef Jeff Jackson of A.R. Valentien (The Lodge at Torrey Pines) paired perfectly with side dishes made from only local and seasonal ingredients. All dishes will be served buffet style and cooked communally by members of the Slow Food chapters and volunteers. UCSD I-House RAs will be baking pies. Tons of vegetarian options available. ucsdslowfood@gmail.com 
6:30pm
BIRCH AQUARIUM AT SCRIPPS- OCEAN 
SAT 11.19
6pm
FOUNDERS’ DINNER- RIMAC
Celebrate a magical evening with the UC San Diego community as we pay tribute to individuals whose outstanding support is integral to making innovations possible. Special Events and Protocol: (858) 534-6386, sep@ucsd.edu 
8pm
THE THUGS- THE ARTHUR WAGNER THEATRE
Someone may have died up on the ninth floor. But these temps in a law firm’s back office certainly don’t want to find out. Gossip and rumors abound in this Obie-award winning play. Box Office: (858) 534-4574, tdpromo@ucsd.edu   TUE 11.15
3pm
THE U.S.- MEXICO SECURITY BUILDUP AND ITS 
CONSEQUENCES FOR THE MIGRANT POPULATION- INSTITUTE OF THE AMERICAS BUILDING
A panel of officials and experts from the United States 
and Mexico will discuss whether the increased security investment is working. They will focus on the buildup's intended and unintended consequences. Rosalie Fanshel: (858) 822-3103, rzfanshe@ucsd.edu
8pm
DOCCULTURE SERIES PRESENTS: THE 
INTERRUPTERS- THE LOFT
From director Steve James, (Hoop Dreams, Stevie), 
The Interrupters is a heartbreaking— yet ultimately hopeful—documentary about a group of fearless crusaders who work to end violence in some of Chicago’s toughest neighborhoods.   (858) 534-8497, artpower@ucsd.eduWED 11.16
4:30pm
UCSD NEW WRITING SERIES: CLAYTON ESHELMAN- 
LITERATURE BUILDING, ROOM 155 
This event is free and open to the public. For more 
information and directions:http://literature.ucsd.edu/news-info/events/new-writing-series/index.html Franciszka Voeltz, lvoeltz@ucsd.edu or Rachel Taylor: rlt001@ucsd.edu 
5pm
MIT ENTERPRISE FORUM PRESENTS: WHAT COMES 
FIRST, THE CONTRACT OR THE ENGINEERS? TRANSPLANTING AUSSIE EXPERTISE TO SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA- THE SALK INSTITUTE. 
In the world of high-tech product design and 
development services, what should come first… the chicken or the egg...the contracts or the engineers? Madelaine Holden: (858) 964-1335, mholden@connect.org
FRI11.18
10am
5TH ANNUAL TORREY PINES OPTICAL TECHNOLOGY 
SYMPOSIUM- SCRIPPS GREEN HOSPITAL 
The 5th Annual TPOT Symposium will feature cutting 
edge research and technology related to fields in optical biology. Alan Saluk: (858) 784-8251, asaluk@scripps.edu 
8pm
THE STORM- SHEILA AND HUGHES POTIKER 
THEATRE
A young couple, domineering mother, an eccentric 
scientist, a powerful businessman, and a newcomer all harbor secrets. The intertwining of nature, science, and faith flood the stage in this classic play by one of Russia’s treasured dramatists. Box Office: (858) 534-4574, tdpromo@ucsd.edu   
AUTHORS SERIES- BIRCH AQUARIUM AT THE 
SCRIPPS INSTITUTION OF OCEANOGRAPHY AT UCSD
For legendary surfer Laird Hamilton, hundred foot 
waves represent the ultimate challenge. In Pursuit of the Rogues, Freaks, and Giants of the Ocean, Casey describes the life or death stakes, the glory, and the mystery of impossibly mammoth waves. Visitor Services: (858) 534-5771, aquariuminfo@ucsd.edu 
8pm
RED FISH BLUE FISH- CONRAD PREBYS MUSIC 
CENTER
Directed by Steven Schick, UCSD's renowned 
percussion ensemble performs several works by John Cage as well as James Dillon's East 11th Street, homage to Cage. Dirk Sutro: (858) 534-4830, dsutro@ucsd.edu Red Fish Blue Fish
Conrad Prebys Music
Cente r@ 8pmTHU 11.17
THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY, NOVEMBER, 14, 2011 | W W W.UCSDGUARDIAN.OR G 9Guardian Classifieds are placed online and are FREE for UCSD. Low cost classified placements for our print 
edition are also available to the UCSD campus and the public at   ucsdguardian.campusave.com
Guardian Classifieds are placed online and are FREE for UCSD. Low cost classified placements for our print 
edition are also available to the UCSD campus and the public at   ucsdguardian.campusave.com
HOUSING
River Run Village - If you’re looking for a central 
location and a great price.....River Run Village is where you want to live. Our prime location puts you within walking distance of shop-ping, dining and entertainment in the heart of Mission Valley. Thoughtfully designed floor-plans and attractive amenities make River Run Village a great place to live at a comfortable price! Our responsive staff will take good care of you! Come visit us today! Please call for our Fantastic Specials!!! Reply online at ucsdguard-ian.org/classifieds to Listing ID: 13624817 
ROOMMATES
$450- Shared apartment- San Diego. San Diego Shared, 1 Bathroom, Upper Unit, Contemporary, Shared Parking, A/C, Carpets, Stove, Refrigerator, Large Closet, Quiet Neighborhood, Close to Freeway, Close to Shopping, New Carpets, Laundry Onsite, Dishwasher, Garbage Disposal, 11/18/2011 Electric, No Pets, Partially Furnished, 6 Mo Lease, $450.00 619-788-6234. Reply online at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds to Listing ID: 13920667
$425- Shared master bedroom at Costa Verde. 
Perfect for international students, UCSD stu-dents, and students returning from abroad! Convenient, easy access to surrounding areas. No security deposit necessary, total at move in = $0. Reply online at ucsdguardian.org/clas-sifieds to Listing ID: 13779833
$400- 3rd year female engineering student 
looking for place to live. I am a UCSD student looking for a place to live. I plan live part time, a place to stay for the days I don’t want to com-mute. I am looking for a cheap alternative, but would only like to live with females. I want to pay around $400 (since I wont be much trou-ble). Make me offer with what best option you have. I don’t mind staying in the living room for something like $200 ( for whomever could use some extra cash). Reply online at ucsdguard-ian.org/classifieds to Listing ID: 13779810
Single room in a 3-bedroom townhouse near 
UTC. Single room available in 3-bedroom townhouse near UTC. Female UCSD student preferred. You would be sharing the house with 3 other girls. It is a very spacious design and has a huge closet. There is a patio and balcony, as well as a two-car garage that you would share with the girls (rotation system.) However, not to worry as there is plenty of street parking! Close to shuttle stop. Overall, very nice complex with pool and tennis courts. Feel free to contact me. Reply online at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds to Listing ID: 13779760crossword
made
o
o
r
r
d
d
made
d
made
e
e
r
t
your vision,
our mission.
The Associated Students Store Contact outfitters@ucsd.edu for more info.Create custom apparel to promote your
student organization with Triton Outfitter'snew Made TO Order program!
the
guardian ishiring!WRITING | PHOTOGRAPHY | LAYOUT | DESIGN | ADVERTISING
P I C K  U P  A  C O P Y  O N  N E W S  S TA N D S  E V E R Y  M O N D AY  &  T H U R S D AY !COPY READING ART | ILLUSTRATION | MARKETING | GRAPHICS
APPLICATIONS ONLINE AT
ucsdguardian.org/jobs .read between the lines.
i
QUESTIONS? EMAIL jobs@ucsdguardian.org ?
ACROSS
1 Estimator’s words
5 It’s cut and styled9 “Of __ I Sing”13 Kathmandu’s country15 Part of A.D.16 Sniggler’s prey17 Maliciousness18 Not so much19 Bivouac20 Lose a few pounds23 Opposed (to)24 Pekoe, e.g.25 “Far out!”28 Legal thing29 They’re exchanged at the altar32 Make fun of34 Sweet snack with coffee36 Northern California peak37 Act defiantly toward41 __ Pieces: candy brand42 Brings up43 Make into law44 Bank claim45 Fashion that doesn’t last48 Canadian A.L. team, on scoreboards49 Crude in a tanker51 Invent54 Find ideal employment58 Monopoly square with bars60 Yves’s girlfriend61 Country with a wall62 Poet __ St. Vincent Millay63 Heavenly music maker64 Kids’ flying toys65 Clothes66 Norway’s capital67 Open-and-shut __
DOWN
1 GM navigation system2 Fix potholes in3 Volleyball smashes4 Wild West movie5 One of two equal portions6 From the beginning7 Maps within maps8 Talk radio host O’Donnell9 PC support pro10 Summer itch cause11 Stately tree12 Psychic’s claim14 Some summer babies, astrologically21 Deceptive moves22 Collect26 Regarding27 Unable to hear30 “Of course I knew that!”31 “SNL” alum Cheri33 Food, on a diner sign34 Computer insert35 Common pickup capacity36 Afterworld communication meeting
37 Get all worked up38 Letterman rival39 Horse that isn’t two yet40 Golfer’s gadget44 Alpaca cousins45 Tex-Mex serving46 Makes reparations (for)47 Lower in rank50 Wyoming neighbor52 __ of lamb53 Value system55 “Woe is me!”56 “__, Interrupted”57 Bank takeaway58 You might be on one if you do the starts of 
20-, 37- and 54-Across
59 Bustle
Don't waste your vacation time with appointments!Get your teeth cleaned
during the quarter!
David Sabourin, D.D.S.
Scripps Hospital/Ximed Center
9850 Genesee Avenue, Suite 760, La Jolla, California 92037
Phone: (858)452-2333 •  Email: smilemaker1@san.rr.comServing UCSD community for over 20 years
Walking distance from UCSD campus. Located across Voigt from the baseball /f_ield next to Scripps Memorial HospitalSTUDENT RATE INCLUDES 
COMPREHENSIVE EXAM, REQUIRED X-RAYS
& TEETH CLEANING (prophylaxis)THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2011 | www.U C SDGUARDIAN .O RG 11
attempts in a row. But the veteran adjusted her game to 
record several dinks over the blocker’s heads for points. 
Brunsting had a good game against the Pioneers with 13 
kills for a total of 17.5 points. She also had 20 assists and an amazing .333 hitting percentage.
Leadership from the Tritons’ Big Three: Condon, 
Brunsting and Williamson, who combined for 40 of the 55 Triton kills. Condon racked up her ninth double-double of the season with 11 kills and 18 digs, while Williamson led the Tritons, banging in 16 kills, 18 digs and a service ace to compliment her .382 hitting percentage. Williamson joined Brunsting in also surpassing the 1,000 mark for career kills.
Cal State Monterey Bay didn’t know what hit them as 
they went down Saturday in three sets 25-23, 25-18 and 25-16 to the Tritons, who had lost to them earlier in the season. The game marked the last regular season game for seniors Brunsting, Condon, Freidenberg, Werhane, Williamson and Natasha Wilroy. Wilroy finished the season on a high note, throwing down 11 kills, while Wehane had 24 digs. 
The Tritons will now move on to NCAA Tournament 
play. With the second-seed in the West, the Tritons will face Grand Canyon — which came in second in the PAC West Conference. Grand Canyon has a 22-6 record and a veteran line-up that will test the Tritons.
If the Tritons advance, they will await the winner of the 
game between Sonoma and Hawaii, but will probably go into the second round to face Sonoma. Hawaii-Hilo has the worst record in the tournament and has not seen tourna-ment play since 2009.
If UCSD can make it past the second round, the Tritons 
will probaby face No. 1 San Bernardino, which remains in perfect form at 27-0.
To go deep into the tournament and upset San 
Bernardino’s perfect season, UCSD’s freshmen and seniors will have to come together and up their level of play. 
The Tritons have shown glimpses throughout the year, 
but have failed to string them together to produce domi-nant performances like those shown by San Bernardino. A focused, united Triton team has a great chance to take it all, but if it starts to fall apart with no one to step up, then UCSD won’t see the second round.
Readers can contact Nick Howe at nshowe@ucsd.edu
Looking for a great pharmacy school?
Look no 
further than 
the University of
Michigan.Meet some alumni of California universities who recently enrolled 
as University of Michigan PharmD students.
1. Financial support unequalled by any
other U.S. pharmacy school.
2. Outstanding pay .
3. Job security in economically uncertain
times.
4. Unlimited opportunities to improve
people’s lives .
5. Unparalleled career choices .
6. Continuous growth potential .
7. Life and career mobility .8. The prestige of owning a degree from
one of America’s top-ranked pharmacy
schools.
9.Membership in an influential alumni
network spanning the globe.
10.The power to apply medical knowl-
edge at the forefront of technological 
innovation.
11.Small class size to maximize individual-
ized educational experiences.
12.One-to-one learning with world-
renowned faculty .Every year, UCSD graduates choose the PharmD Program at the University
of Michigan College of Pharmacy. In fact, nearly 20 percent of our
PharmD enrollment is comprised of alumn i f rom California universities. 
What accounts for Michigan’s popularity among Golden Staters? First, 
we are consistently ranked among America’s top pharmacy schools. Secondly,
we consider a lot more than GPA and PCAT scores when evaluating your
application.
Earn your bachelor’s degree at UCSD, and then earn your PharmD at U-M.
That’s what many UCSD students do every year.
To learn more about the PharmD Program at Michigan, visit our Web site at
www.umich.edu/~pharmacy . Or contact the College of Pharmacy at 734-764-7312 or
at mich.pharm.admissions@umich.edu .
Still looking for a reason to make Michigan your pharmacy school? Consider these :
Your future never looked brighter.
AZUSA   |   HIGH DESERT   |   INLAND EMPIRE   |   LOS ANGELES   |   MURRIETA
ORANGE COUNTY   |   SAN DIEGO   |    VENTURA COUNTY   |   ONLINE(800) 825-5278
www.apu.edu/explore/educationgraduatecenter@apu.edu Call
Click
EmailEarn your degree in education
in 12 –18 months at APU.
With more than 36 credential and master’s degree
opportunities, we’re confident we have a program
for you.
APU offers:
• Convenient classes at 8 Southern California locations 
and online.
• Programs in teaching, counseling, physical education, 
and administration.
• NCATE-accredited programs recognized by all 50 
states and internationally.
12921
Classes start five times throughout the year. 
Contact us today!Darin Curtis, M.A. ’95
Tierra del Sol Middle School
2011 California Teacher of the Year
T ritons Close Out Regular Seasondefender Hayley Johnson teed up for 10 corner kicks 
in the campaign, but the Tritons were unable to finish.        The game ended with a Johnson corner kick that found the head of junior Britnee Chesney. The attempt missed just over the crossbar.        “The team played as well as they have played within the last month or so, but today was just one of those days, ” said McManus. “It wasn’t meant to be. The ball wasn’t going to go in the back of their net. [Chico State] got one decent scoring opportunity and they took it. ”        The Tritons end a season that, at its start, seemed to be the most promising that the program had seen in a good many years. UCSD finished the regular sea-son at the top of the conference with only one loss.    But the Tritons may have peaked there, as they fell to Cal State Stanislaus in the conference semifi-nals before crashing out of the national tournament.     The game marks the last match for UCSD’s nine gradu-ating seniors: Courtney Capobianco, Sarah Garland, Katie Kuykendall, Lindsay Mills, Sara Spaventa, Annie Wethe, Kristin Armstrong, Sarah McTigue and Shelby Wong.
Readers can contact Rachel Uda at ruda@ucsd.eduUCSD Upset in NCAA Regionals
▶ W. SOCCER, from page 12
▶ VOLLEYBALL, from page 12
Brian  Yip/GUardianSPORTSRACHEL UDA
sports @ucsdguardian.org
CONTACT THE EDITOR
12 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2011 | www.U C SDGUARDIAN .O RG
Basketball
Roundup
CCAA/GNAC SHOOTOUT
FRIDAY , NOV.  11
Seattle Pacific 47
UC San Diego 68
Seniors Lauren Freidenberg and 
Chelsea Carlisle led the Lady Tritons to a 68-47 win over Seattle Pacific in their first game of the CCAA/GNAC Shootout.
All-American guard Carlisle finished 
the game with 17 points, while 6’1” for-ward Freidenberg led all scorers with 19 points and nine boards. The two were the only players on the Triton roster to score in the double digits.
UCSD got off to a slow start, fall-
ing behind Seattle Pacific in the open-ing minutes. The Tritons did not take the lead until the thirteenth minute of the game, with contributions from the perimeter by sophomore guard Nicole Anderson-Jew, who scored eight points. But overall, UCSD had a difficult time from behind the arc, shooting just 44 percent. The Tritons made up for it in the paint, with their forwards playing well in the paint. 
In the second half, UCSD ran away 
with the lead, ending the game by out-scoring the Falcons 22-6.By Rachel Uda
Sports Editor
The UCSD Women’s Soccer team ends its season with a 13-3-4 overall record, losing against Chico State at home for a second-
round exit from the NCAA National tournament.        The Tritons received a first-round bye with the first-seed, awaiting the win-ner of the bout on Friday between Chico State and Cal State Stanislaus.       The first-round match pitting the Wildcats against the Warriors — a repeat of the CCAA conference championships last weekend, Nov. 6 — went into double overtime. Still drawn 1-1, the match was finally decided in penalty kicks, with the Wildcats scraping past Stanislaus for the win.     Although Chico State played 110 minutes just two days prior, the Wildcats did not seem fatigued in their second-round matchup with the Tritons.     In the opening minutes of the match, UCSD controlled the ball in the Wildcats’ half, doing well to control the tempo of the game. The Tritons had a few dangerous chances, record-ing three shots and four corner kicks more than the Wildcats in the first 20 minutes.     But in the 24th minute, Chico State brought on midfielder Megan Tabler. With her first touches on the ball, Tabler collected a flat UCSD goal kick sent into the middle of the field, dishing the ball wide to forward Lisa Webster. Deep into the Triton goal box, UCSD senior goalkeeper Kristin Armstrong chal-lenged Webster, but the forward was just able to slide onto the ball to put the Wildcats up 1-0.        Down 1-0, UCSD continued to attack, but was finding it increasingly difficult to get past the defense-minded Wildcats, who play with an unorthodox five-man backline and only one striker up top.        With the clock winding down in the first half, head coach Brian McManus replaced all of his starting midfielders and for-wards with reserves in hopes of giving the first-team some time to regroup and attack in the second half. But at this point in the match, Chico seemed the dominant squad, pushing further into UCSD’s half of the field.     “Give [Chico State] credit. They played very well and good luck to them next weekend, ” said McManus. ”     At the start of the second half, the Wildcats seemed intent on holding their 1-0 lead, staying compact and double-teaming the Triton for-wards. Despite the high pressure, UCSD contin-ued to record good chances on goal, registering three times as many shots than the Wildcats.         With the score still 1-0 late in the second half and the Tritons’ forwards still tied up, UCSD tried launching balls deep into Chico’s half for their outside midfielders — senior Shelby Wong and junior Jessica Wi — to run onto. The wingers ran the ball down the flanks and worked them out for corner kicks. Junior 
Brian  Yip/GUardian
By NI cK  hO We
A
ssociate Sports Editor
WOMEN’S VOLLEYBALL— As the regular 
season comes to an end, the Triton Women’s Volleyball team sits high and looks forward to an 11th visit to the NCAA Tournament. Last year, the Triton women went into the postseason ranked No. 4 in the West region, cruising past Sonoma State in the first round before falling to Cal State San Bernardino in the second. 
This year, the Lady Tritons enter the NCAA 
tournament ranked No. 2 in the West and are bracketed to play No. 7 ranked Grand Canyon in the first round, to be followed in the second round by the winner of the matchup between Sonoma State (21-6) and Hawaii Hilo (15-6). The team did well against Sonoma last year in the tournament, but lost to them earlier this year in regular season play. Now, after the Tritons were swept in three games last week by peren-nial CCAA top dog Cal State San Bernardino, an opportunity to play in the quarterfinals seems like a long shot unless UCSD is lucky enough not to face San Bernardino, which plays last ranked Alaska Anchorage (18-8) in the first round.
       UCSD plays strongest when the tal-
ented yet inexperienced freshmen are directed by seniors Katie Condon, Roxanne Brunsting and Hillary Williamson. Despite the loss against San Bernardino this past weekend, Williamson came up with several kills in a row to tie the first game at 8-8. 
This brief highlight was followed by a rash 
of UCSD errors, resulting in their lowest attack percentage of the season at just .046 (27-22-117). Williamson recorded 11 digs to go over 1,000 career digs in the game, but it was not enough to counter San Bernardino’s Samantha Middleborn — the AVCA National Player of the Y ear — who had 15 kills and six blocks, leading the Coyotes to the win.
The Tritons picked themselves back up when 
they played Cal State East Bay on Thursday. In the first set, the Tritons looked tired from their previous loss, making nine errors that cost them the first game 23-25. 
The Tritons rallied back in the second game. 
Although they committed eight errors, they eventually took the game 25-22. After the second game, the Tritons brought their errors down to three in games 3 and 4, to win 25-15 and 25-16.
Senior outside hitter Condon initially strug-
gled in the second game against East Bay’s front line, who blocked several of her kill 
T riton Volleyball, Ready for Postseason
#6 Lizzy Andrews                       7
Th
e seventh man off the bench, comes up with big digs.
#4 Roxanne Brunsting  
                    9
O
ver 1000 career assists, great court vision, mentally tough leader
#14 Katie Condon  
                    9
G
reat front line hitter and defender. A senior talent that always comes 
through in tough situations. At match point, put Condon on the ball, 
especially coming off 18 digs and 11 kills against CSU East Bay.#10 Lauren Demos  
                    8
C
an get red hot when she’s on, but is still a little green on the court. 
#32 Amber Hawthorne  
                 7.5
G
reat defensive player with good setting hands.#11 Rachelle Kinney                   8.5
F
reshman front line hitter with the most potential on the team, hitting 
hard down the line.#22 Sara McCutchan  
                  8
U
tility player with quick feet and great court vision
#5 Hillary Williamson  
                 10
1000 digs, 1000 k
ills, 3rd ranked in CCAA for points scored per set
#1 Natasha Wilroy  
                  8
S
enior front line hitter coming off the highest kill tally of her career, is 
heating up into the postseason.WOMEN’S VOLLEYBALL PLAYER RATINGS: Regular Season Play        COMPILED BY NICHOLAS HOWE
 s poken
It wasn’t meant to be. The ball wasn’t going to go in the back of their net.”
— BRIAN  mCmANUS
UCSD WOMEN’S SOCCER COACHWomen’s soccer
SHUT OUT
UCSD makes a second-round exit from the NCAA 
tournament after dropping 1-0 to Chico State.
SU NDAY ,  N O V .  13
Western Washington 75
UC San Diego 72
The No. 13 Tritons closed out the 
CCAA/GNAC Shootout with a command-ing 79-60 win over Western W ashington.
UCSD showcased its sharpshooters on 
Sunday, converting 31 of its 61 attempts. Carlisle, who was awarded the tourna-ment MVP , put together another standout performance with 27 points. Junior guard Emily Osga was also named to the All-Tournament team. Osga bounced back to score 22 points against the Vikings follow-ing a subpar performance just two days before against Seattle Pacific, in which the guard only contributed two points.
Again, UCSD had to come from 
behind, as Western W ashington raced out to take the lead. With just over five min-utes left to play, the Tritons tied the score at 25 with a pair of free throws from senior guard Daisy Feder. Buckets from Osga and Carlisle pushed the lead out to 11 before the end of the half. 
In the second half, the Tritons extended 
the lead, ending the game 19 points over Western W ashington.See W. S OCCER , page 11
See W. VOLLEYBALL, page 11Brian  Yip/GUardian