TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 21, 2012 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
 TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 21, 2012
TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 21, 2012
 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
 VOLUME 45, ISSUE 33
INSIDE
TUESDAY
Height: 2-2.5 ft.
Wind: 6-11 mph
Water Temp: 58 FWEDNESDAY
Height: 1.5-2 ft.
Wind: 3-11 mph
Water Temp: 58 F
THURSDA Y
Height: 1.5-2.5 ft.
Wind: 1-7 mph 
Water Temp: 58 FFRIDAY
Height: 2 ft.
Wind: 3-9 mph 
Water Temp: 58 FLOW
$3.85
76, El Cajon 
898 Broadway & N Mollison Ave
HIGH
$4.49
Shell, Del Mar
3015 Del Mar Heights Rd near I-5 TUESDA Y
H 70 L 46WEDNESDA Y
H 73 L 50GAS PER GALLON NIGHT WATCH FORECASTsSPOKEN
THURSDA Y
H 69 L 51FRIDA Y
H 69 L 49Birdland .................................2
Lights and Sirens ...................3Field Notes ............................4Letter to the Editor ................5In Focus .................................6Sudoku ..................................9Sports ..................................12
TUESDA Y WEDNESDA Y
Any time you can get four national 
qualifying marks in a season 
opener, it’s a good day.”
ANTHONY SALERNO
UCSD Track and Field
Head Coach“
THURSDAY FRIDA Y
SURF REPORT
UCSD to 
End TAG Program in Fall 2012
BY NICOLE C HAN
Associate News Editor
California community college 
students are no longer guaranteed 
admission to UCSD. The UCSD Committee on Admissions voted  Dec. 8, 2011 to eliminate the Transfer Admission Guarantee program due to limited spaces for a continued increasing number of applicants. 
“The number of transfer students 
applying to UCSD has increased every year, whereas the number of spots available for them has not, ” Committee on Admissions undergraduate representative substitute Adam Powers said in an email. “ Accepting every transfer guaranteed under TAG would bring the composition of UCSD’s enrolled population far outside the guidelines set by the state, which mandates a certain ratio of new to continuing students. ”
Students under TAG must complete 
UC math and English composition courses, and maintain a minimum 3.5 GPA. Students must transfer as juniors.
Powers estimates that UCSD’s 
transfer admissions target for the 2011-12 academic year was 2,410 students. However, 3,602 TAG applications were submitted under the new 3.5 GPA requirement. Under the 2010-11 
See TRANSFER, page 3
Court to Rule on Affirmative Action Ban
BY ZEV H URWITZ
Associate News Editor
A lawsuit filed in Federal Court this 
month aims to end a statewide ban on affirmative action and increase the number of minority students in public colleges. On Feb. 13, three members of the 9th Circuit Appellate Court heard arguments from affirmative action proponents who hoped  to end the ban to increase diversity at top UC campuses. 
The lawsuit — Coalition to Defend 
Affirmative Action vs. American Civil Rights Institute  — was originally formed in 2010 
by 46 minority students and the CDAA. It aims to overturn Proposition 209, which voters passed in 1996 and bans affirmative action. Proposition 209 prevents state-run schools and organizations from considering gender, race or ethnicity in contracting or admission decisions. 
The constitutional amendment was upheld in an initial appeal in 1997. A California judge dismissed the case in a lower court in 2010.
The San Francisco Examiner reported 
that George B. Washington, a plaintiff attorney and proponent for affirmative action, cited racial bias as the background for Proposition 209.
“It’s a special law, directed only at blacks 
and Latinos, ” Washington said.
Many supporters of affirmative action 
turned out for the Feb. 13 opening remarks at the federal courthouse in San Francisco. A teacher at an Oakland high school told ABC News that the affirmative action ban limited potential in higher education for non-white students.
“This is a historic moment, ” Tania 
Kappner told ABC News. “The opportunity to win affirmative action back for California and get the colleges to look more like our state, we need that, ” 
In an effort to boost diversity, UC officials adopted holistic review last year, which includes the mandatory assessment of an applicant’s entire application before a decision can be reached. Considerations on race in admissions are already allowed when viewed as part of the whole application. In February 2011, the UC Office of the President released a statement stating that while diversity was an aim of holistic review, it could not be the most important factor in utilizing holistic review.
“Holistic review is not a silver bullet 
for climate and diversity problems, and is cautious about characterizing its individualized recommendation or the 2012 freshman admissions reform policy it authored as attempts to increase diversity, ” the UCOP statement said. “Diversity may be one outcome, but it is not the defining motivation. ”
A statement on the UCSD’s Vice 
Chancellor for Equity, Diversity & Inclusion’s ADMISSIONS
DIVERSITYBY NICOLE C HAN
Associate News Editor
Members of the Judicial Board have claimed that the Election Appeals Board — created after the 2011 student 
elections — violates the A.S. Constitution. 
Council created the Election Appeals Board  
in Spring Quarter 2011.  In the election process, individuals or slates can file grievances, which are first heard by the Election Committee. If the plaintiff disagrees with the Election Committee’s ruling, she can bring the case to the Judicial Board. The job of the Appeals Board is to look at cases in the event that the plaintiff challenges the Judicial Board’s decision. According to Judicial Board Chair Polina Tsvetikova, the Appeals Board (Section 5.5) violates Article VII, Section 1 of the A.S. Constitution.
Under the new section, Section 5.5 in Title 
IX 2011-12 of the Constitution, individuals can appeal the sanctions or decisions set by the Judicial Board. If at least three members of the Appeals Board, which is compromised of members from each college council, decides to hear the case, the Board can overturn the original ruling. Under the addition, the Appeals Board retains sole jurisdiction over determining whether the Judicial Board acted with bias. 
According to a presentation at the Feb. 15 
A.S. Council meeting, “[Section 5.5] impedes the Judicial Board’s ability to make decisions in a manner conducive to the efficient well-organized election that the bylaws envision, and will ultimately bog down the appeal’s process even more than they were in last year’s elections cycle. ”
According to the presentation, filing a complaint 
under the new bylaws can take more than three days, since the complaint must go through as many as three tiers of appeals: the Election Committee, the J-Board and then the Appeals Board. 
“In case someone would like to appeal [the 
Judicial] Board’s decision, based on very ambiguous criteria ‘acting inappropriately, ’ ‘evidence of partiality, ’ as outlined in Section 5.5, the [Election Appeals Board] comes into place, ” Tsvetikova said in an email. According to Tsvetikova, the Election Appeals 
Board interferes with the Judicial Board’s duties. 
“The Constitution states that the judiciary 
authority is vested in [Judicial] Board in regards to all cases and controversies that may arise, which includes cases during the elections period, ” Tsvetikova said. “Creating the [Election Appeals Board] for the election period vests the final judiciary authority not in [Judicial] Board, which isn’t what the Constitution states. ” 
The A.S. Constitution, dated April 16, 2009,  
states that the Judicial Board retains judicial authority in all cases and controversies that are brought up in regard to the Constitution, rules of ASUCSD or any of its subordinate bodies. 
The Judicial Board suggested removing the 
Election Appeals Board entirely and add a fourth section under Article VII in the Constitution. The proposed legislation would clarify that the Judicial Board has the authority to make the final decision, unless detailed evidence proving impartiality is presented. /uni00A0 “This would therefore allow [Judicial] 
See BYLAWS, page 3
 
JUDICIA L BOARD DEEMS 
ELECTION BYLAWS 
UNCONS TITUTIONAL
PUT A RING ON IT
KYLE  SZETO/GUARDIAN
UCSD alum Grace Towers sings at Bitchy Bingo Feb. 17.A.S. COUNCIL
See LAWSUIT, page 3REBEKAH HWA NG/GUARDIAN2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2012 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and 
Thursdays during the academic year by UCSD students 
and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2011, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the opin-ions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. It’s complicated, young Jedi.
General Editorial: 858-534-6580  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Focus: focus@ucsdguardian.org
Leisure: leisure@ucsdguardian.org
Hiatus: hiatus@ucsdguardian.org  
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-0468
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Emily Ku 
Marketing & Advertising Director
Brandon Katzer
Webmaster
Bryan Smith
Advertising & Marketing Assistants
Christine Alabastro 
Christine Doo 
Shilpa Sharma
Advertising Design & Layout 
Alfredo H. Vilano Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Page Layout
Leo Bui, Angela Chen, Margaret Yau, Rebecca Horwitz, 
Arielle Sallai, Nathan ToungEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
Associate News Editors
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion E ditor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports Editor
Focus Editor
Leisure Editor
Hiatus Editor
Associate Hiatus E ditor
Copy Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo E ditor
Associate Design E ditor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Development EditorAngela Chen
Arielle Sallai
Margaret Yau
Nicole Chan
Laira Martin 
Zev Hurwitz
Madeline Mann
Hilary Lee
Rachel Uda
Nicholas Howe
Mina Nilchian
Arielle Sallai
Ren Ebel
Andrew Whitworth
Monica Haider
Emily Pham
Andrew Oh
Nolan Thomas
Nathan Toung
Rebekah Hwang
Jeffrey Lau
Hayley Bisceglia-MartinBIRDLAND By Rebekah Dyer
THAT MOMENT IN LIFE By Irene Chiang
COMPILED BY Zev Hurwitz | associate news editor CURRENTS
UCSD SAN DIEGO CALIFORNIA
/uni25B6 UCSD School of Medicine faculty member 
Dr. Kim E. Barrett was selected this month as president-elect of the American Physiological Society. Dr. Barrett will assume her post this spring. /uni25B6 Baseball Hall of Famer Tony Gwynn Sr. is recovering after having cancer surgery at UC San Diego Health System. The San Diego State baseball team head coach hopes to return to the Aztecs’ bench soon after UCSD doctors remove a facial nerve in a successful operation last week. 
/uni25B6 UCSD alum and San Diego City Council 
member Sherri Lightner (D-Calif.) will try to defend her spot this June against Republican contender Ray Elli. Lightner’s district includes La Jolla, University City, Torrey Hills, Torrey Pines, Del Mar Mesa and other areas. /uni25B6 A Navy SEAL skydiving expert trainer died performing a jump on Saturday, Feb. 18, when he crashed into a pond at Perris Valley Skydiving. Sean Carey was attempting a “swoop” maneuver, which entails approaching dangerously close to the ground before pulling up via a parachute. /uni25B6 Police arrested fugitive Armando Perez this week in Tijuana for his connection to the murder of his wife in October 2010. An extradition hearing in Mexico City is expected later this year. /uni25B6A Navy sailor died on Friday, Feb. 17, while aboard a San Diego-based ship that had been docked in Dubai. Paris Pough’s death aboard the Carl Vinson is under investigation. 
/uni25B6 A helicopter collided with a small plane in the air between Sacramento and San Francisco on Sunday night. The pilots both walked away from the incident with only minor injuries.
/uni25B6 A man was arrested after a video of him 
attacking employees at Disney’s California Adventure surfaced online. The video showed Glenn Horlacher, 53, throwing punches and kicking security personnel before being restrained by other park guests.
/uni25B6Teenagers in several northern California 
counties will be able to receive free discretely mailed condoms. The Condom Access Project announced this week that teenagers in Alameda, San Joaquin, Sacramento and parts of San Francisco will have access to the federally-funded condoms through www.teensource.org.THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2012 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 3
Board to act out its responsibility of 
being the judiciary authority for all cases, ” Tsvetikova said. 
According to Tsvetikova, the board 
deemed the bylaws unconstitutional in early November and called for a meeting with the A.S. Advocate General. 
“ After following up as early as Week Two of Winter Quarter, by Week Four the [Judicial] Board, after having addressed several members of Council, learned that Council as a whole was not aware of [Judicial] Board’s concerns, ” Tsvetikova wrote.
According to A.S. Council’s 
standing rules, no changes can be made to the bylaws because the candidacy-filing period for the Spring 2012 election has already begun; it started during Week Five. The earliest the bylaws can be discussed would be Week Three of Spring Quarter and cannot be changed unless Council chooses to do so. 
The Advocate General could not 
be reached for comment.
Readers can contact Nicole Chan at 
n3chan@ ucsd.edu.LIGHTS & SIRENS
Friday, Feb. 10 
8:31 a.m.: Suicide Attempt/uni25B6 Suicide attempt at East Campus Parking Structure. Transported to hospital.10:43 a.m.: Vandalism/uni25B6 Graffiti on CLICS. Damage unknown. Information Only.
6 p.m.: Bicycle Theft  /uni25B6 There was a loss of $250 last month at AP&M Bike Racks. Online Report. Saturday, Feb. 11 1:09 a.m.: Assist Other Agency /uni25B6 A male subject had been drinking on Scholars Drive South and Revelle College. Unable to Locate.  
1:20 a.m.: Citizen Contact/uni25B6 Public intoxication at Village Place and Market. Transported to Detox.  
2:36 a.m.: Disturbance /uni25B6 Female refused to pay cab fare at Pangea Parking Structure. Checks OK. 
8:10 a.m.: Injury /uni25B6 Adult male passed out and fell face first at Main Gym Recreation Center. Transported to Hospital by Friend. 4:56 p.m.: Medical Aid /uni25B6 Y oung adult female had allergic reaction to peanuts; conscious and breathing at Tioga Hall. Transported to Hospital.  
9:43 p.m.: Citizen Contact /uni25B6 The subject was unable to find his vehicle at Pangea Parking Structure. Vehicle Found.  
11:51 p.m.: Vandalism /uni25B6 Two subjects who had been drinking broke the coffee cart door at Main Gym. Field Interview.  
 Monday, Feb. 13 5:30 a.m.: Vandalism /uni25B6 Unknown suspect(s) removed fire extinguisher at Economics Building; loss of $150. Report Taken. 4:03 p.m.: Medical Aid /uni25B6 Subject unconscious but breathing from traffic accident at Gilman Parking Structure. Transported to Hospital.  
6 p.m.: Petty Theft /uni25B6 There was a loss of $450 at Peterson Hall. Online Report.  
9 p.m.: Petty Theft /uni25B6 There was a loss of $80 at Stewart Hall. Online report.  
Tuesday, Feb. 14 8:06 a.m.: Non-Injury Accident Report  
/uni25B6 A UC vehicle collided with a wall at Campus Service Complex Building G. Report taken. 8:41 a.m.: Animal Call /uni25B6 Dog inside vehicle was found panting at UCTR 201. Checks OK. 11:30 a.m.: Burglary /uni25B6 There was a loss of $2,650 at Mesa Verde Hall. Report Taken. 1:45 p.m.: Non-Injury Accident Report  
/uni25B6 Pepsi truck ran over employee’s foot at the Bookstore. Report Taken. 7:48 p.m.: Medical Aid /uni25B6 Subject cut finger on glassware at Natural Sciences Building. Transported to Hospital.  
 Wednesday, Feb. 15 10:29 a.m.: Attempt to Contact /uni25B6 Father unable to get a hold of daughter at Revelle Apartments. Checks OK. 4:26 p.m.: Disturbance /uni25B6 Transportation needed for psych subject at Galbraith Hall. Transported to Hospital.  
7:45 p.m.: Grand Theft /uni25B6 There was a loss of $1,200 at Cognitive Sciences Building. Online Report.Unknown: Tampering With Vehicle/uni25B6 Vehicle tampered with in Gilman Parking Structure. Report Taken.
— Compiled by Rebecca Horwitz  
S/e.sc/n.sc/i.sc/o.sc/r.sc S/t.sc/a.sc/f.sc/f.sc W/r.sc/i.sc/t.sc/e.sc/r.sc/uni25B6BYLAWS, from page 1
academic year’s 3.0 GPA requirement, 4,900 TAG applications were received. 
The committee recognized the 
need to make a decision about TAG since at least last year, Powers said.
According to Powers, community 
college students who acquired full-time status by or before Fall 2011 will still be eligible to transfer to UCSD under TAG. The change will affect students who start at community colleges next year.
The 2010-11 committee, a 
standing committee within the Academic Senate, was composed of seven faculty members, former Sixth College Provost James Lin, ex-officio member Assistant Vice Chancellor of Admissions Mae Brown and undergraduate student representatives Jeremy Akiyama and Kristina Pham. Powers said that he and AVP of Academic Affairs Mac Zilber sat in for Akiyama and Pham on the day of the vote. 
Powers said that the 
elimination of TAG is unlikely to have any effect on future levels of transfer students at UCSD.  
     “The number of overall transfer applicants raises every year, so I would expect that whatever the requirement for admission is, UCSD will consistently hit its target for transfers, ” Powers said.
Despite continued interest 
in UCSD, Powers said that the composition of the campus may be of concern. According to Powers, the average GPA of admitted non-TAG transfers was 3.9, which Powers said is considerably higher than the required 
3.5 GPA.
“It was assumed publicly by 
myself, and somewhat confirmed by the committee, that the elimination of TAG would place additional importance on UCSD examining factors other than academic achievement when evaluating transfer applications, in line with their ‘individualized review’ methodology — which considers the strength of the individual in all aspects of their scholarship, ” Powers said.
TAG programs are currently 
offered at UCSB, UC Davis, UC Irvine, UC Riverside, UC Santa Cruz and UC Merced. UCLA and UC Berkeley do not offer TAG programs. 
Readers can contact Nicole Chan at 
n3chan@ ucsd.edu.CCC Students Cannot Transfer Automatically Starting Fall 2012
/uni25B6 TRANSFER from page 1Bylaws Cannot Be Changed Until Week Three of  Spring Quarter 
webpage repeats a commitment to creating a diverse environment on campus.
“Diversity is a defining feature 
of the State of California, and is a source of innovative ideas, creative accomplishments and a variety of values and worldviews that arise from differences of culture and life experiences, ” the statement reads. “UC San Diego strives to reflect this diversity in its students, faculty and staff. ”
According to UCOP admissions 
data, the percentage of white students who enrolled on a UC 
campus in 2011 dropped by nearly 5 percent since 2009. The percentages of African-American and Hispanic students rose by 0.2 percent and 4.9 percent, respectively, in that time period.
Readers can contact Zev Hurwitz at 
zhurwitz@ucsd.edu./uni25B6LAWSUIT, from page 1Black, Hispanic Enrollment has Increased at UC Campuses Since 2009OPINIONMADELINE MANN
opinion @ucsdguardian.orgCONTACT THE EDITOR4 THE UCSD  GUARDIAN | TUES DAY, FE BRUARY 21, 2012 | WWW.UCSD GUARDIAN.ORG
Cigarette companies are fighting back against an FDA requirement to 
put graphic warning labels on cigarette packs. The proposed images — 
which include full-color photos of a diseased lung and a tracheotomy hole in a man’s throat — are meant to be overtly grotesque to scare customers away. Regardless of the fact that cigarettes have negative health consequences, enforcing a law that dictates the actions of private companies goes against a company’s First Amendment right of free speech.
The change was initially set to take effect by September 2012, but this past 
November, the U.S. District Judge Richard Leon blocked the required images from taking effect until after the lawsuit between the FDA and cigarette companies is settled.
Government-mandated anti-smoking messages should be factual and 
uncontroversial, but the proposed images cross the line into biased advocacy. The current warning labels on cigarette packs include hard facts such as “Cigarette smoke contains carbon monoxide” and “Smoking causes lung cancer, heart disease, emphysema, and may complicate pregnancy. ” The images that the FDA is pushing to implement, which include staged photos of corpses, are explicit and physically unsettling. They are purported to cover the top 50 percent of a cigarette pack’s front and back panels, showing even more prominently than the company’s own branding. The text warnings educate customers, while the images actively repulse them from the product. Judge Leon contends that some, if not all, of these images are digitally altered to evoke emotion and endorse the government’s “obvious anti-smoking agenda. ” 
It is clear that the cigarette companies have a strong case of free speech, as 
the images go beyond simply conveying facts.
— REV ATHY SAMPATH/uniF6BAKUMAR
Staff WriterRequirement Infringes Upon Companies’ Free Speech Rights Images Will Educate Public on Smoking’s Health Risks
Last June, the FDA mandated that by September 2012, cigarette manufacturers must add large graphic warning labels to their packaging. 
Five cigarette manufacturers claimed in court that the graphic warnings infringe on their freedom of speech, but the government rightly contends that public health concerns are paramount. The graphic warnings will offer an effective way to educate and inform consumers on the risks of smoking.
Since the Office on Smoking and Health was established in 1965, the 
government has taken steps to reduce the number of tobacco-related deaths. Despite their continuous efforts, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention states that tobacco use causes one in five U.S. deaths annually. This is a sign that greater measures need to be taken to wean the public off smoking habits. In 2007, the Institute of Medicine, a U.S. federal advisory board, concluded that graphic warnings would give a better understanding of the health risks of smoking. /uni00A0
The current health warnings on U.S. cigarette packages are not 
prominent enough to attract notice. The text warnings are placed along the sides of the packs in small typeface, with the colors and fonts resembling the rest of the package. Forty countries already require eye-catching graphic warnings. The new mandates will not only better inform consumers, but catch the U.S. up with the rest of the world. Several countries, including Australia, have already faced lawsuits from tobacco manufacturers with the proponents of graphic warnings usually emerging victorious.
The current health warnings insufficiently warn consumers about the 
often fatal consequences of smoking. The new images, being impossible to miss, will give consumers a chance to rethink picking up a cigarette.
— ALEKS L EVIN
Staff WriterThe Guardian  is moving. 
A/f_ter years of being headquartered in a dingy 
cave of questionable functionality located over another dingy cave of questionable functionality  (Hi /T_hai), we’re heading to the space formerly known as the most disgusting oﬃce on campus: the Media Lounge, or “old Koala  
oﬃce. ” /T_his latter reason is why the contractor hastened to specify 
the extent of planned renovations 
before revealing the old name of our new space. And it’s these extensive renovations that quelled my visceral reaction and started me thinking about the psychology of work spaces. 
/T_he current Guardian  oﬃce 
comprises a fairly large space in the Old Student Center. Step in, and you’ll be looking down a long hallway with oﬃces lining both walls. Our most valued object is the water cooler. Our main room is usually deserted, since most people are in their oﬃces, doors closed. I have spent the past three years trying not to think about what happens behind these doors.
According to science writer Jonah 
Lehrer, this type of arrangement is optimally non-conducive to the functionality of a collaborative organization. /T_he most important features of saidspace are horizontal design, collaboration and easy access.
Take the example of Building 20, 
the poorly designed MIT structure that became the starting point for some of the world’s biggest ideas. Building 20 was a miserable place: bad design, extreme temperatures, terrible lighting and it violated the /f_ire code. Someone trying to /f_ind Department A had to walk through the entire building, bumping into people from other departments, before reaching the destination. 
Subsequently, MIT administration 
stuck the random and less prestigious people there, including everything from a piano repair facility to, ahem, the linguistics department. /T_he people stuck there retaliated by customizing the space, tearing down walls and bolting equipment to the roof.  And because of this —/uni00A0forcing people to rub elbows, letting them design their own workspace —/uni00A0the unwanted structure furthered developments in military radar,  and was the birthplace of both Noam Chomsky’s “universal grammar” theory of linguistics and Bose speakers. 
Granted, our staﬀ has more 
in common with each other than  do piano repairmen and Noam Chomsky. Granted, we’ve been preemptively mourning the end of individual oﬃces for the past three weeks. But come Spring Quarter when we’re all crowded around pods in a giant room, I expect great things. I expect the birth of a new kind of linguistics. I expect cross-section collaboration. At the very least, I expect to know exactly where everyone is. The Secret 
Blessings of  Close Quarters
Field 
        Notes
ANGELA CHEN
shchen@ucsd.edu
Field 
        Notes
ANGEL
QUICK TAKESTHE FDA  IS PUSHING F OR THE IMPLEMENTAT ION OF  GRA PHIC, FULL-C OLOR W ARNING LA BELS ON 
CIGARETTE P ACKS, RESUL TING IN A LAWSUIT  BETWEEN THE FDA A ND FIVE U.S. TOBACCO COMPANIES.PHOTO  ILLUSTRATION  BYJEFFREY  LAU/GUARDIANA Risky Loan
The cash-strapped state of California has 
utilized some drastic measures to solve its money issues, most recently in the form of 
taking a $200 million loan next month from the UC system, an institution from which it has just cut $650 million. The UC system is taking a leap of faith to support its main financier, who cannot operate properly without these funds. When it comes down to it, the UC system doesn’t have much choice but to loan the money. In the end though, this venture could prove beneficial to the universities as long as California reciprocates the assistance in the future.
The purpose of the loan from the UC system is 
to contribute to the necessary $2.5 billion financial cushion that the state needs in the event that revenues start to plummet dramatically. California’s staggering debt has caused its credit rating to dip from A-plus to A in 2009, while most states have AA and AAA ratings. As a result, any loans that the state might potentially take out from private institutions would have impractically high interest rates. On the other hand, the UC system has retained a good credit rating despite state budget cuts it has faced in recent years, and therefore can take out loans from an outside source at a much lower interest rate. The plan is to have the UC system borrow from a private source at an interest rate of 0.005 percent and then loan the money to the state at a 2 percent interest rate. As of now, California is slated to pay the money back with interest to the UC system by April 20 of this year.
The California may have every intention to pay 
the UC loan back by April, but given its past track record, it looks unlikely. The state is already in debt to the UC system for a whopping $1.7 billion due to this borrowing-lending plan in the past. In 2009, the UC system loaned the state $200 million in exchange for ten voter-approved building projects on the UC campuses, which are still in the works. Again in July 2011, a bill was passed to establish an investment fund that the UC system and other agencies could contribute to as a way of maintaining the state’s cash flow. The UC system 
The state of  California may take a $200-million loan from the UC system on March 2, a move 
that is in the best interest of  the state and the future of  the university system.
By Chelsey Davis • s taff Writer
See LOAN, page 5THE UCSD  GUARDIAN | TUES DAY, FE BRUARY 21, 2012 | WWW.UCSD GUARDIAN.ORG 5
Regents Should Devise Pay-Back Plan With StateIN OTHER NEWS By Rebekah Hwang
 LETT ER TO THE EDITOR
Dear Editor,
The University of California 
currently has an endowment of 
$6,260,000,000, so why shouldn’t it lend it out?/uni00A0 One advantage of lending to the State of California is that/uni00A0over recent/uni00A0years — what with the budget crunch and all — the university/uni00A0has stipulated that as a condition of the loan, capital development projects at the UC campuses are to remain ongoing. Thus the/uni00A0cake isn’t sliced/uni00A0to help/uni00A0any other/uni00A0partner-in-government, and when the economy gets better, the UC endowment gets it all back, along with gratitude and compound interest. On the other hand,/uni00A0UC San Diego’s proposed Las Vegas Nevada Cancer/uni00A0deal requires the seller to raise $20 million (one-tenth more than the selling price of $18 million as reported in the Guardian ) over 
five years, after the Nevada State legislature allotted $20 million — and ten times that amount was brought in “by star-studded benefits. ”/uni00A0
/uni00A0The/uni00A0million is strictly a 
lagger;/uni00A0another $100 million loss was foisted on the creditors before the sale, yet/uni00A0the real cost is joining 130 employees to the UC San Diego healthcare system./uni00A0
/uni00A0Nevada state/uni00A0senator Sheila 
Leslie said “a lot of us wanted to improve the general healthcare in Nevada. ”/uni00A0Thomas McAfee, Dean of Clinical Affairs at UC San Diego wants it the most./uni00A0But according to/uni00A0the same/uni00A0article in the Union-Tribune/uni00A0 from which the Guardian  
reported, there are more than a baker’s dozen of ongoing clinical trials at the Las Vegas Nevada Cancer Center. How are/uni00A0such trials/uni00A0going to/uni00A0raise some/uni00A0money in the short run?/uni00A0/uni00A0Another former stakeholder 
in the bankrupt research institute said/uni00A0the whole undertaking had become/uni00A0“a black hole. ” UCSF/UC San Diego/uni00A0should remain/uni00A0“departments of the university, ‘coordinate with its already existing departments. ’”/uni00A0In seeking to acquire Illumina,/uni00A0Roche is looking to bolster its presence in the increasingly important area of genetic sequencing. Illumina is one of the biggest makers of high-speed DNA sequencing machines, accounting for roughly half of the market./uni00A0Kamala Harris, Attorney General of the State of California, may ask why UC entities with “winning” assets are being spun off, while “losing” entities like English departments at “lesser” UCs are retained.
/uni00A0My deceased elder brother/uni00A0left 
my nephew a substantial amount of money, which my nephew/uni00A0invested in Las Vegas real estate. None of/uni00A0his money remains. How do you make a small fortune?/uni00A0 Start with a large fortune. 
This particular Las Vegas deal 
isn’t about/uni00A0curing cancer./uni00A0It’s about the privatization of UC to benefit principal stakeholders./uni00A0What guarantee do you have/uni00A0that your/uni00A0tuition won’t be raised/uni00A0simply to benefit “the ultimate power couples” such as those who attended the benefits in Nevada?/uni00A0
—Richard Thompson
 Alumnus ‘83
No Reason Not to 
Lend Money to State
▶ The Guardian  welcomes letters from its readers. 
All letters must be addressed, and written, to 
the editor of the Guardian . Letters are limited 
to 500 words, and all letters must include the writer’s name, college and year (undergraduates), department (graduate students or professors) or city of residence (local residents). A maximum of three signatories per letter is permitted. The Guardian Editorial Board reserves the right to 
edit for length, accuracy, clarity and civility. The Editorial Board reserves the right to reject letters for publication. Due to the volume of mail we receive, we do not confirm receipt or publication of a letter.invested one billion dollars into the fund, which the 
state won’t have to pay back until October of this year. With yet another loan on the state’s wishlist, it seems unlikely that any of these loans will be paid back by the scheduled time. While the loan may not be paid back promptly, the interest generated from the loan, though modest, will pump some extra funds into the universities. Therefore, once the state follows through with the payment, the UC system will come out on top while also assisting the state. 
Dianne Klein, spokesperson for the UC system, 
sums up the catch-22 the UC system is in. “By loaning the state money and risking that they don’t pay [the UC system] back on time, we’re putting ourselves on the line, ” she said. “It’s a show of good faith when the university lends money to the state. ” The situation leaves the UC system in a tough place: they can loan the money with little assurance that it will be paid back in a timely way or risk the state losing money.
The UC Board of Regents, which has the final say in 
the decision over the loan, needs to devise a solid plan with the state in order to get the money back on time in April, but it should also add a few stipulations to this loan. Mainly, they should make sure the state sees the UC as a priority for funding in times of economic crisis, not something that is first in line to get cut. In time, this should become a long-term plan, where the UC has a reserve fund from the state as money to fall back on in case of another economic recession. 
For now, it’s wise that the UC is willing to work 
with the state in hopes of extra support in the coming years, but history is known to repeat itself —and our history with the state isn’t a good one. The UC needs to make a bold move with this loan in order to make sure its relationship with the state takes a turn for the better.
Readers can contact Chelsey Davis at crdavis@ucsd.edu▶ LOAN, from page 4FOCUSMINA NILCHIAN
focus @ucsdguardian.orgCONTACT THE EDITOR
features
6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2012 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG
UCSD postdoctoral researcher Mercedeh 
Khajavikhan has spent countless hours at work inside the Nano3 facility and the optics lab on the third floor of the Engineering 
building. But all her work was not in vain; her study on lasers, a collaboration with her colleagues at the UCSD Jacobs School of Engineering, has resulted in the development of the smallest-ever, room-temperature nanolaser along with a highly efficient threshold-less laser — or a laser that starts lasing immediately with very little power. The new, innovative design could serve as an important tool in medical research.
The unique aspects of the laser have big implications 
for scientific studies. The miniscule size of the open-ing, around 100 nanometers, allows for the detection of HIV viruses and single molecules — an advancement in spectroscopy (the study of the interaction between matter and radiated energy). The laser may also be used in optical devices and future computer chips — opening possibilities for incredibly cutting-edge technology.
The secret lies in the coaxial structure of the device: 
Instead of the previously used box that wasted much of the generated light and its energy, a cylinder with a metal rod at its center is used, which can support a laser beam (however small it may be).
“We can play with the size of the structure and 
the metal rod, ” Khajavikhan said about the cutting-edge design. “When we squeeze light into this very small struc-ture, we start to play with its environment. ”
For Khajavikhan, the lead author of the study, the idea of creating a threshold-less laser first came to her while experimenting in the lab in October 2010.
“First, we made these lasers with only a rough idea 
as to their potential, ” Khajavikhan said. “We were trying different sizes and then I postulated that if the structure can isolate one mode, then the lasing should occur in a threshold-less fashion. ”
She immediately emailed her colleagues after her initial 
discovery, and the project was soon underway. But recog-nizing the right structure didn’t make things simpler; there was still the tedious process of finding the correct size.
“It took me some time to tune the sizes to find a 
threshold-less one, ” Khajavikhan said. “In the coaxial structure, you get all sorts of new modes inside the cavity. To assort the modes and find their properties, I asked my colleague, Dr. Amit Mizrahi, for help. By changing the size even slightly, new modes appear and old modes move out of the material’s natural window of emission. It was hard to find the coaxial laser cavity that was actually the right size. And it took us a bit of time to find the one with the threshold-less behavior, but we found it. ”
On March 31, 2011, the project was done and 
Khajavikhan and her team had officially built a threshold-less laser.
“We understood the potential of these coaxial struc-
tures and finally found the right ways to exploit them, ” Khajavikhan said.
At this stage of the work, Khajavikhan turned to her 
colleague, Michael Katz, to compare the experimental data GuidinG liGhts
Researchers break barriers to develop lasers that can sustain beams of  minuscule proportions. 
The new “thresholdless” model has some big implications for future scientific endeavors.
By Stacey Chien • Staff  Writer
 See LASER , page 7
REBEKAH  HWANG /GUARDIANTHE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2012 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 7
Computer and Electrical Engineers Develop Tiny, Threshold-less Lasers
to the rate equation model (a set of equations that governs the 
laser behavior), mainly to get a fresh and unbiased opinion about the work. The results conclusively confirmed the threshold-less predication.
“Because of the unprecedented capability of squeezing light 
into these very small structures, it allows us to experimentally study some quantum electro-dynamical effects, ” Khajavikhan said. “We can show and measure many effects that physicists have theoretically predicted in the last 70 years. ”
By shrinking the structure down to practically the size of the 
light waves themselves, or “nurturing” the light’s environment, researchers can begin to really observe what has been held to be supposedly true by “nature. ”
Khajavikhan, who moved from Iran in 2004 and received 
her Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering in 2009 at the University of Minnesota, explained how in some cases, nurture trumps nature. 
“For a very long time, people used to think that [the gen-
eration of glow-in-the-dark light] was the property of the mate-
rial, but now, from 1946 onwards, it’s not really all about nature; it’s equally, and sometimes more importantly, about nurture, ” Khajavikhan said. “It’s about what you put around the light, and this effect only shows itself when you squeeze light into very small areas, like what we have done now. ”
The proper -
ties of a laser are dependent on the size of the struc-ture, which sup-ports modes 
(standing waves within the metal-based structure). Once you reach the size at which the cavity supports a single mode, it’s considered a threshold-less laser that generates a coherent beam of light as soon as it starts emitting (this light source is only one-fifteenth the size of the light waves it produces). This is unlike conventional lasers that first emit incoherent light and take a lot of energy to begin lasing.
Khajavikhan emphasized that no research discovery is pos-
sible without numerous sleepless nights, going back to the funda-mentals one learns in school and perhaps most importantly, a lot of discussions and exchange of ideas with colleagues and mentors.
“I think I owe a lot to the University of California, San 
Diego — to many of the faculty, including Professors Shaya Fainman,Vitaliy Lomakin and Tara Javidi, ” Khajavikhan said. “UCSD has the environment to allow this kind of research, and most people that I have worked with are just wonderful people. The fact that they were there listening to my thoughts, sharing their ideas with me and giving me the chance to go and think about those ideas too, eventually helped the project. A lot of good ideas have been generated and developed during the discussions 
with my colleagues. I think the discussions are the main part of research, and to me, that was collaboration and team work. ”
Khajavikhan, now a staff research volunteer at UCSD, is hope-
ful about her research and wants to continue her study on lasers in the future.
“I still have high hopes in this line of research; I think there 
is still a lot more to be done, ” Khajavikhan said. “On a few occa-sions, after presenting our work, many of our colleagues at other schools, like Stanford, USC and Berkeley, have come up and told us that this looks very promising. There seems to be a consensus that our discovery will have a major impact, so at least for the next few years I sure hope to be busy. ”
Readers can contact Stacey Chien at stchien@ucsd.eduSince Feb. 5, every flyer handed out on Library Walk 
responsibly disposed of in the recycling bin has been counted in a larger, nationwide recycling competi-
tion called RecycleMania. UCSD is currently in a race against over 500 colleges across the continent to determine who can collect the most tons of recyclable material by March 31. 
At stake is nationwide recognition and a huge trophy 
(made, of course, from recycled material) for the top recy-clers. But the real prize here is the creation of a network of campuses committed to global green efforts. In order to make a strong standing, the whole school must rally together.
This is UCSD’s seventh consecutive year of partici-
pation, and the school’s main organizers hope to boost numbers from last year’s showing — 432 tons of recycled waste. UCSD has always occupied a top rung amongst RecycleMania schools in California but still has a long way to climb on the national ladder. Last year, Tritons made their way into the top 100 list of schools, coming in 87th place in the Grand Champion category of the competi-tion, at a recycling rate of about 35 percent (Cal State San Marcos, the first place winner, rang in with a whopping rate of 80 percent recycle rate). However, in the Gorilla Prize category, which measures gross tonnage of combined paper, cardboard, bottles and cans, UCSD scored in fourth place.
Alonso Nobles, assistant superintendent of facilities 
management and campus waste manager, is working to increase student knowledge of RecycleMania by placing banners and flyers around campus, while collaborating with the residential life offices to publicize to the students. 
Though supportive, Nobles said the facilities on campus 
are not taking the initiative to garner the participation nec-essary to push UCSD over the edge, and Nobles believes that this campus-wide unawareness is a major obstacle to UCSD’s success. Flyers and stickers advertising the com-petition have gone largely unnoticed by most students, and residential life hasn’t stressed the importance of student participation. 
“I have noticed that other schools saturate their student 
populations with information about the competition, espe-cially at the athletic events, ” Nobles said. “ At the Spirit Night rally, they were supposed to mention RecycleMania to the students, but those who attended didn’t hear them say any-thing. Also, we’ve asked the residential life offices to have the RAs distribute information throughout their areas, but I’m not sure that they’ve publicized it enough. ”
 Campuswide unawareness is just one of the problems 
that Nobles is encountering with UCSD in RecycleMania. He also receives many complaints from building managers about the disposal of trash, and how many janitors are not taking into account the difference between recycle bins and trash bins when they’re emptying them. In the dining halls as well as faculty buildings across campus, many workers simply throw everything into one spot in order to save time. Right now, the amount of trash going into recycling bins and vice versa is at 30 percent, and UCSD’s goal is to decrease that number.
 The RecycleMania competition is very successful 
nationwide among other universities, but only when the entire community is involved. 
“We need the cooperation from everyone, ” Nobles said. 
“While there is a disconnect between students at UCSD, we want to just let everyone know how easy it is to make a responsible decision. ” 
— ALEXA RO CERO
STAFF  WRITER
“Because of the unprecedented 
capability of squeezing light into these very small structures, it allows us to experimentally study some quantum electro-dynamical effects. We can show and measure many effects that physicists have theoretically predicted in the last 70 years.”
DR. KHAJAVIKHAN
UCSD‘S DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRICAL 
COMPUTER ENGINEERING
The box-shaped model is replaced by a cylindrical one, which makes it 
possible to sustain a smaller beam of light.A schematic of  the coaxial laser cavity.Scanning Electron Micrograph (SEM) image of the constituent ring of the coaxial structure containing the gain section and the cover silica layer. At a minuscule 200 nanometers, the laser assist future scientists in studying the HIV virus.RECYCLEM ANIAIN FOCUS
PHOTO  COURTESY  OF MAX-R SUSTAINABLE  FURNISHINGS
PHOTO  COURTESY  OF MERCEDEH  KHAJAVIKHAN  AND ALEKSANDAR  SIMIC▶ LASER, from page 68 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDA Y, FEBRUAR Y 21, 2012 | WWW.U CSDGUARDIAN .ORG
CAMPUS2012
2.21-2.26CALEND AR
L.O.L FEAT
FAHIM ANWAR
@ THE LOFT • 8pmTUE2.21TUE2.21
10am
WOW! WINTER ORG WONDERLAND- LIBRARY 
WALK  
Kick off Winter Quarter and the 2012-year by 
attending the Winter Org Wonderland on Tuesday, February 21, 2012 on Library Walk! The SILCs from One Stop are hosting the second annual Winter Org Wonderland, featuring representatives from more than 60 student organizations. This is another chance to meet members of some of UCSD’s 500+ student orgs, sample great food, and enjoy music, while getting your questions answered about getting involved. Similar to Fall Festival on the Green (FFOG), the Winter Org Fair will let you get the scoop on campus involvement opportunities. 
6:30pm
BIG/LITTLE POT LUCK- BSU/MECHA RESOURCE 
CENTER
Mentor/Mentee bonding pot luck. Come bond with 
BSU and enjoy a good variety of food.
8pm
L.O.L. FEATURING FAHIM ANWAR- THE LOFT 
L.O.L is Laugh Out Loft: a monthly series at The Loft featuring top stand-up comics from Comedy Central, Showtime, Last Comic Standing, and dozens of smash-hit TV shows. This show will feature Los Angeles' Fahim Anwar, who starred on NBC's Chuck, MTV's Disaster Date, and NBC's Stand Up for Diversity tour! The show also features San Diego and LA's top comics, including UCSD alumni Feraz Ozel, who will regularly host the show!
8pm
THE BRITISH ARE COMING! - PRICE CTR PLAZA 
(OUTDOORS)
UCSD's favorite Treble Singers present: All The 
King's Men at UCSD! All The King's Men is an all-male UK acapella sensation from King's College in London. This concert will also feature some of UCSD's finest and favorite acapella groups like The Beat, Tritones, and Acamazing.This event will be an intimate performance, complete with tasty Treble-baked goods and deliciously hot  everages.**Dress warmly and bring a blanket, as the performance is outdoors. Bring a lawn chair if it suits your fancy!**ALSO, we are having a Bake Sale on Library Walk Friday (2/22) from 10am-1pm to fundraise. Don't forget to find us :)Contact: thetreblesingers@ucsd.edu. www.facebook.com/events/228080927281076/FRI2.24
11am
'FITNESS FRIDAYS' WEEKLY FITNESS CLASSES - 
THE ZONE
From Zumba to Yoga to Pilates and more, every 
week features a different work-out. You don't need to bring anything other than comfortable clothing. Please arrive early as the class is first-come, first-serve. Contact: icrowelerma@ucsd.edu
2:30pm
LOL: FREE WEEKLY LAUGHTER GROUP - THE 
ZONE (PRICE CTR PLAZA, BY JAMBA JUICE)
Get into The Zone every Friday from 2:30-3:00 pm 
for Laughter Yoga! Laughter Yoga began in 1995 with an inspiration from a physician in India, and has since spread to more than 6,000 laughter clubs in over 60 countries! It's a revolutionary way to reduce stress, boost immune function, stimulate creativity, connect with others, and awaken your inner joy. Laughter Yoga combines laughter exercises with breathing and gentle movement. You don't need anything to participate, not even a sense of humor. Enlighten with laughter! Contact: gtang@ucsd.eduTHU2.23 WED2.22
7am
ROCK CLIMB AT MISSION GORGE REGIONAL 
PARK - MEET AT OUTBACK RENTAL SHOP , PEPPER CANYON
Mission Trails Regional Park is a local hot spot for 
rock climbing only 20 minutes from campus. The climbing is excellent with routes for both first time and experienced climbers. Our experienced and supportive guides will lead you through a fun and challenging progression of climbs throughout the day. Knots, rope handling, belaying, safety, and climbing technique will be covered. All climbing equipment is provided. Come spend the day with us on the rocks! Signup online, in person at the Rental Shop (behind Pepper Canyon) or at Surf Shop (in Price Center) or call 858-534-0684. UCSD students $40. Others $55. This event brought to you by Outback Adventures and UCSD Recreation.
12pm
SUNGOD BBQ -  SUN GOD LAWN
Need something fun to do on Saturday 2/25? Have no fear, ICRA (Inter-College Residents' Association) has a BBQ on Sungod Lawn with tons of fun activities to participate in. FREE Phil's BBQ (for the first 150 people)! There will be deli sliced tri tip, pulled pork shoulder with cole slaw, potato salad, vegetarian options and veggie burgers! FREE Churros by El Tigre! FREE Spinart! FREE Raffles for gift cards to Jamba, Tapex, Rubios and other PC restaurants! GREAT Music! Come out for an awesome time! Contact: icra@ucsd.eduSAT 2.2512pm
4TH ANNUAL PRESIDENT’S DAY DISCUSSION- 
PC WEST THURGOOD MARSHALL ROOM 
Facilitated discussion about the US Presidency, its 
impact on our community and our perspectives. Each year, the UC San Diego Black Staff Association invites guest speakers and members to gather and share perspectives on the US Presidency. 
1:30pm
THERAPY FLUFFIES: PET-A-PUP EVERY WEEK 
IN THE ZONE!
Studies show that petting a dog can relieve stress 
and bolster well-being. The Zone brings you a different dog(s) each week! 
5pm
EVENING WITH THE STARS- UJIMA-
MANDEVILLE SUITE  
Join Ujima at Mandeville Suite, atop Tioga Hall on 
Muir Campus. African American alumni, current students, staff, and community members will gather to enjoy an evening together.11am
MULTICULTURAL FOOD CELEBRATION - LIBRARY 
WALK
Come join Multicultural Coexistence celebrate 
culture through food! We will be selling plates for $5 and you can choose from a variety of cuisines, including Japanese seaweed salad, samosas, and Ethiopian chickpea wat. All proceeds will go towards our scholarship fund to help an underprivileged student pay tuition, so your tasty meal supports a good cause! Questions? Want to help make, set-up, or serve food? Email us at mcce.ucsd@gmail.com
6pm
FRIENDS WITH BENEFITS- PC THEATER
Thursday, Feb. 23 at Price Center Theater Doors 6pm Show 7pm Kunis and Timberlake’s chemistry is palpable and the two stars' quick and witty banter throughout the film is wonderfully entertaining.  
7pm
JUNE MOON- MANDELL WEISS FORUM
A guy with a dream, a gal with a heart of gold, and the songwriting wonders of Tin Pan Alley beckoning them all. Kaufman and Lardner’s classic comedy with music.  
8pm
CLOUD GATE 2- MANDEVILLE CENTER
In 1973, choreographer Lin Hwai-min founded Cloud Gate Dance Theatre of Taiwan and ignited a wholly irresistible new culture of dance techniques and theatrical concepts from the East and the West.
8pm
ARGENTINE TANGO CLUB WEEKLY GUIDED 
PRACTICA - MAIN GYM, WEST BALCONY
UCSD Argentine Tango Club presents a guided 
practica for beginners and advanced beginners from 8-9 pm on Wednesdays during winter quarter, led by Reza and Csilla. No partner is required. No prior experience is necessary! The guided practica is free for club members. (Club membership per quarter: $10/student, $20/non-student. Please fill out the membership form on the website.) Stay for the free practica from 9-11 pm to practice new steps and dance in a relaxed, informal setting. For more information about the club, visit our website, friend us on Facebook or join the mailing list. Contact: tango@ucsd.edu
THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2012 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 9
Guardian Classifieds are placed online and are FREE for UCSD. Low cost classified placements for our print 
edition are also available to the UCSD campus and the public at   ucsdguardian.campusave.com
Guardian Classifieds are placed online and are FREE for UCSD. Low cost classified placements for our print edition are also available to the UCSD campus and the public at   
ucsdguardian.campusave.comHOUSING
Westbrook - Welcome to Westbrook, a 
great place to call home. O ur unique liv -
ing spaces feature cable hookups, dish-
washers, refrigerators, microwave ovens gas ranges, and oversized closets. Our community amenities include an exer -
cise facility, a sauna, a swimming pool, and a spa. We are conveniently located 
near the finest in shopping, dining, and entertainment. Call today to see your new home at Westbrook./uni00A0 Reply online 
to listing ID: 23069510
Tierrasanta Ridge, set among rolling 
greenbelts and lushly landscaped gar -
dens, these creatively designed one-and two-bedroom apartment homes offer you the very best in San Diego liv -
ing. Every Tierrasanta Ridge apartment home is filled with elegant features, from designer-selected carpeting and window coverings to private patios or balconies and walk-in or mirrored wardrobe closets. O utside, a plethora 
or recreational amenities assures you of the quality lifestyle you deserve. Call for current specials!/uni00A0 Reply online to listing ID: 22960604
Torrey Pines Village - Come home to 
Torrey Pines Village... one and two bed-room apartment homes in single level and loft models combining view, pres-tige, and the best of Southern California Living at affordable prices. We’ve 
thought of everything at Torrey Pines Village, including the most convenient location possible. Adjacent to University Towne Centre, you have access to major department stores, boutiques, res-taurants, theaters, and an indoor ice rink. You’re only minutes away from La Jolla, Scripps Clinic, the University of California San Diego, and best of all... the beautiful La Jolla beaches!/uni00A0Reply online to listing ID: 22260380
Room for Rent in Jewish CoO p near 
National University $525 - Fun and ener -
getic house with college aged National 
University students who practice Jewish values in a warm, encouraging and friendly living environment. Heads up, you do not need to be Jewish to live in the house, we are only interested in ?Jewish living?. The rent is $525, utilities are about $60, food sharing ranges in the 100s, and there is a $400 security deposit. Room Features Include: Great lofted room, a bed in good condition, a cool built-in desk, a white (dry erase) board for use, and a huge closet with lots of shelving and storage space. A few other house features are: hard wood floors, a washer and dryer, wireless internet access, a large stocked “kosher-style” kitchen, 2 and ? bathrooms, a nicely landscaped backyard, amazing housemates. Short Walking Distance to: 
SAFEW AY, D OWNTOWN, and BUS ST OP.  
Available: NOW! Reply online to listing ID: 23043903
ROOMMATES
Single Room DT San Diego - Hey! I have a bedroom in a 5BR, 2 bath house that is available February 1. The home is beautiful -it’s in a nice neighborhood. It is about 10 mins to San Diego City College, and right in downtown San Diego. The place itself is clean, with all tile downstairs and the upstairs is com-pletely carpeted. There are two bed-rooms towards the lower part of the house with one bathroom. The kitch-en, dinning nook, and living room are downstairs with access to the backyard and garage. The bedroom is located upstairs, so it has plush carpet, vaulted ceilings, large closet, and plenty of stor -
age space. There are two other bed-rooms upstairs with which the bath -
room is shared, and there is a second living room with high ceilings and big and bright looking out on the backyard. The house is walking distance to great shops in downtown San Diego. Reply online to listing ID: 23041603
Near USD - seeking 1 student to share 
room w/ me for 2011 - 2012 Seeking 1 person to share a bedroom with me in a apt 2 blocks from University of San Diego. It’s a 5bd/4bath with a total of 9 guys. Since all of us so far are going to be seniors next year it would be best to be one yourself go ahead and hit me up on my email. I check it at least once per day. Reply online to listing ID: 22946815crossword
ACROSS
1 Raise, as produce
5 Go badly together10 Stylish14 Instant, in product names15 Madre’s milk16 Bride’s ride17 Busy, busy, busy18 Time __ time: repeatedly19 “The Wizard __”: comic strip
20 Arborist’s handiwork22 All there23 Development developments24 Jazz guitarist Montgomery25 Shocking swimmer26 W indshield nuisance
31 Average guys34 H.S. elite35 Older woman’s young lover, facetiously36 Place to make deposits, briefly37 Bouquet delivery letters38 Dream letters39 Novelist Fleming40 Alabama’s only seaport42 Monopoly token43 Chip in a pot, maybe44 Result of an errant brushback pitch47 HDTV brand48 O ut of use, as words: Abbr.
49 Chip in a bowl53 W orld dodo population
55 Deli sandwich filler57 Blue book filler58 Dust Bowl refugees59 Pier gp.60 Religious recess61 Center62 Amber brews63 Dieter’s goal64 Care for65 Branching pointDOWN
1 Boardroom diagram2 Fashionably dated3 Intense dislike4 One sitting on the stand5 Attired6 How liberals lean7 Helen Hunt or Holly Hunter, e.g.8 “Jeez, Louise!”9 Not there10 Quite near11 Pretentious, informally12 Chip-tossing declaration13 Programmers’ writing21 ABA member’s title25 Ancient kingdom near the Dead Sea27 You, in Yucatán28 Longtime “At the Movies” co-host Roger29 Capricorn’s animal30 Holiday song closer31 Doorway side32 Siouan tribe33 Humiliate37 Pet pest38 Disorderly place41 Salaries, wages, etc.42 Hack’s service43 Graceful steed45 One taking bets46 Conclusion50 Yo-Yo Ma’s instrument51 Hacked52 W orth having
53 Zest54 Trade show55 Dot-__: e-businesses56 This, to Pablo
POST FOR FREE AT
ONLINE, PRINT, OR BOTH!YES
CLASSIFIEDSPEOPLE STILL READ
ucsdguardian.
campusave.com POST FOR FREE ATPOST FOR FREE AT
ONLINE, PRINT, OR BOTH!ONLINE, PRINT,
OR BOTH!YESYES
CLASSIFIEDSPEOPLE STILL READCLASSIFIEDSPEOPLE
ucsdguardian.
campusave.comucsdguardian.campusave.com
 STILL READ
made
made
o
o
r
r
d
d
made
d
made
e
e
r
t
your vision, our mission.
The Associated Students StoreContact outfitters@ucsd.edu for more info.
to.ucsd.edu/madetoorder.htmlCreate custom apparel to promote your
student organization with Triton Outfitter'snew Made TO Order program!10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2012 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG
THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2012 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 11
Track & Field Sweeps 
Meet, Wins 25 Events
In each half they went 14-27 to show their shooting 
is not as bad as the season-low 24 percent they threw 
up last Saturday. 
Friday, the team went up against Cal State East Bay, 
who sits just above the Tritons in the CCAA rankings. 
Senior power forward Mike Meza had a career high 
21 points, all of them threes, to put himself in the record books. 
The seven three pointers in one game is the most 
since Tyler Acevedo hit seven four years ago. 
His three pointers rank fifth all time for hits in a 
single game.
McCann and McCullough had 15 points apiece, show-
ing that the future of the Triton team is very bright. Hatch had 11 points on the night and, more impressively, nine rebounds to equalize the rebounds each squad had at 33.  
/uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0  “We played very well tonight, ” head coach Chris 
Carlson said to the UCSD athletics department. “That’s certainly not one of the better teams we’ve seen by any means, but it’s very hard to win on the road in this league and we came to play. We jumped on them early and didn’t let up. ” 
It is hard to find a difference between the two teams on paper, other than the fact that the Pioneers scored 50 points in the second half to the Tritons’ 37. 
The Tritons hit more three pointers, 11 to 10, and 
had a better shooting percentage, 52 percent to 43 per -
cent, but in the end it’s about how many times you put the ball in the bucket. 
The Tritons hit 22 from the field while the Pioneers 
hit 25.
“We got some injuries right now but our team is real 
excited about this last road trip, ” McCann said. “We really want to go out strong for our seniors. ”
After falling to 6-14 in the CCAA, the Tritons have 
eliminated themselves from advancing to the eight-team conference tournament.
UCSD’s last two conference games are slated for 
next week. 
On Wednesday, the Tritons will face Humboldt 
State and on Saturday, UCSD rounds out the season at Sonoma State. 
“I don’t think we have ever won at Humboldt and 
they always have a great crowd so we are really looking forward to that game. ” McCann said. 
/uni00A0/uni00A0 
Readers can contact Nick Howe at nshowe@ucsd.eduBeerman also kept her ground and gave the stick to Rose in a similar position. Rose had an outstanding run and pulled away from the field by more than 10 meters to hand off to junior anchor Kathleen Hitchens, who added insult to injury and sev-eral more meters to make the win-ning time 49.13. 
Although this time does not crack 
the UCSD top 10, it is a good start with such a young squad. Rose then returned to the track for the 400 meter, where she led the entire length for a personal record of 55.82, moving her to within several tenths of a second of the school record, and stands as a provisional qualifier for the NCAA National Meet. Rose also won the 200m with a 25.46 per -
sonal record, helping the women’s 4x400m team — Irish, Snover, Meagher, Rose — put the final touches on the UCSD women’s 169-91 victory.
Another standout of the day was 
junior thrower Jessica Miklaski, who threw 134’3” — an NCAA provi-sional qualifying mark. The junior was satisfied with her throw. 
“There’s still more to come, its 
really early in the season so to be throwing this far now is exciting, ” she said. “But at the same time, I really want to throw farther. For now I’m really happy though. ”
Langford, a senior, jumped to set 
a new personal record of 37’10” in the triple jump, winning that event along with the long jump, and setting a staggering third NCAA provisional qualifying mark in the triple for the Triton Women’s squad.
“ Any time you can get four 
national qualifying marks in a sea-son opener it’s a good day, ” UCSD men’s head coach Anthony Salerno said. “Both teams competed very well against two long-time rivals in Claremont-Mudd-Scripps and Cal Poly Pomona.”
Freshman Veronica Bradley also 
had a good first-ever collegiate meet, winning the high jump at 5’3” and coming in second in the long jump 
to Langford and third in the triple jump at 36” even.
On the throws side, 
the Tritons won six of the eight events, with the women throwers winning every event they competed in: Miklaski took the jav-elin, sophomore Eva Isaacs won the shot-put at 38’4” and junior Uchenna Agbahiwe finished first in the discus at 136’9” , with 
senior Shana Emile taking the ham-mer throw at 144’2.5” . 
“It was a good start to the season, ” 
women’s head coach Darcy Ahner said. “ And [it is] always great to see so many event winners and early season personal records. ”
Both the UCSD Men’s and 
Women’s track teams head to the Rossi Relays at Pomona this coming Saturday in Claremont, where com-petition will begin at 12 p.m. 
/uni00A0/uni00A0 
Readers can contact Nick Howe at nshowe @ucsd.eduBasketball Heads Into Final Weekend
BRIAN Y IP/GUARDIAN
▶ MEN’S BASKETBALL, from page 12▶ TRACK  & FIELD, from page 12
“Any time you can 
get four qualifying marks in a season opener it’s a good day.”
ANTHONY SALERNO
MEN’S TRACK & FIELD COACHSPORTSRACHEL UDA
sports @ucsdguardian.orgCONTACT THE EDITOR12 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2012 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG
OVERHEARD  AT THE GAME
You win some, you lose more.”
— ANONYMOUS
at the UCSD Men’s Volleyball gameMEN’S VOLLE YBALL
BY NICK HOWE
Associate Sports Editor
This past weekend the Triton Men’s 
Basketball team went on the road to face Cal State Monterey Bay on 
Friday and Cal State East Bay on Saturday. 
The Tritons surged past Monterey 
Bay thanks to junior guard Tyler “The Light-Switch” McGrath’s career high 21 points, but the team failed to maintain its offense as it fell 83-71 to the Warriors.  
/uni00A0/uni00A0/uni00A0 The team’s win on Saturday marks UCSD’s first win on the road since the Tritons beat the Academy of Art way back in November.  
/uni00A0/uni00A0/uni00A0 The game was dominated by the Tritons from the get-go, with senior forward Christian Hatch winning the tip and getting the offense going to the tune of 11-5 on a “Light-Switch” triple. 
Hatch went on to have a great night, 
hitting eight of ten from the field for 18 points and bringing down six rebounds.  
/uni00A0/uni00A0/uni00A0 Sophomore McKenzie McCullough had 15 points on six of twelve from the field along with four rebounds. 
McCullough along with standout sopho-
more point guard James McCann, represent the core of next year’s Triton team. 
McCann had nine points and five assists on 
the night, as he again led the Triton backcourt.  
/uni00A0/uni00A0/uni00A0 UCSD led by as much as 20 points with 8:42 remaining, with the score 40-60, before end-ing the night with a comfortable 13-point lead.  
/uni00A0/uni00A0/uni00A0  The team shot 52 percent from the field. BY RA CHEL UDA
Sports Editor
The No. 1 nationally ranked UCSD Women’s Basketball team now stands two games away from closing out its 
regular season as undefeated.
The Tritons have already clinched a 
conference tournament berth with their 26-0 record. 
And now, going into the last weekend 
of conference play, they have captured the regular season title with wins against second in conference Cal State Monterey Bay and seventh place Cal State East Bay.
On Friday, the Tritons topped Cal State 
Monterey Bay (17-6) on the road, beating the Otters by eight points — their closest victory since their double overtime win against Chico State on Jan. 7.
Cal State Monterey Bay took the early 
lead in front of a raucous home crowd of 817 people, but the Tritons took charge with a three-point play from senior forward Lauren Freidenberg and a three-pointer from senior spot up shooter Daisy Feder in their next possession. 
Feder went three-of-seven 
from behind the arc and five-of-16 from the field for 17 points. 
Freidenberg also finished 
with 17 points, while junior guard Emily Osga led the Tritons in scoring with 20 points. The point guard went an outstanding 7-of-12 from the field, finishing all three of her three-point attempts.
From there, UCSD never 
relinquished the lead, ending the second period with a slight four-point advantage. 
Despite shooting just 39.4 percent from 
the field in the second half, the Tritons were able to extend their lead to eight by the end of the half when Osga caught fire. 
The starting point guard scored eight 
points in a three-minute span to 
jump start the Triton offense.
“Tonight was just another 
example of the balance this team 
has, ” Elliott said to the UCSD 
athletics department. “We don’t 
have to rely on any one 
player to score to win. 
We have several indi-
viduals that can step 
up and get the job 
done and to see 
such a balanced 
effort in a tough 
environment on 
the road was 
really impres-
s i v e .”  
    On 
Saturday,  
the Tritons 
took their 20th regular season win against 11-7 Cal State East Bay. The Pioneers, who sit in seventh place in the conference standings, are currently posed to secure a post confer -
ence if they can take a win from bottom-of-the-league Cal State Stanislaus in the coming weekend.
 UCSD got off to an uncharacteristically 
slow start. The Tritons trailed at the end of the first half 30-31 after shooting 11-of-29 for 37.9 percent shooting. 
“Tonight was another example of how 
tough it is to play on the road in this 
league, ” Elliott said to the UCSD Athletic 
Department. “East Bay was ready to play tonight and gave us a great battle. 
We had a great start 
to the second half and then we were able to put the game away with the big run at the e n d .”
Down 30-31, the 
Tritons took the lead as the second period opened, with UCSD hitting three consecu-tive three-pointers from Feder and senior 
guard Chelsea Carlisle.
With 14 minutes left to play, UCSD led by 
as many as 12 points, but the Pioneers slowly chipped away to cut the deficit back down to single digits with six minutes left to play. 
The Tritons succeeded in slowly wear -
ing the Pioneers down as Elliott fielded her reserves and ran up the score to increase the lead by 18 points by the end of the game.
UCSD will end its regular season on the 
road, with two more games against Humboldt State on Wednesday, Feb. 22 and Sonoma State on Saturday, Feb. 26.
“We’re looking to continue making his-
tory at UCSD this season, ” Osga said. “ And do something that’s never been done here before, win the conference tournament. ”
Readers can contact Rachel Uda at ruda@
ucsd.edu BY NICK HOWE
Associate Sports Editor
Saturday, the UCSD Men’s and Women’s Track and Field teams kicked off the 2012 season with a resounding pair of wins 
against perennial rivals Cal Poly Pomona and Claremont-Mudd-Scripps.
On the men’s side, senior thrower Dane 
Sandifer clawed his way to the school’s top 10 list with a discus throw of 156’3.5” , coming in second to fellow Triton, junior Zach Nagengast, who ended his long day with a mark of 158’3.5” . Earlier in the day, Nagengast also won the ham-mer with a throw of 170’6.5” and followed up with a third-place finish in the shot put. The junior is pushing NCAA marks, hoping to make those marks next week at the Rossi Relays Invitational at Claremont. 
Triton senior jumper KaWai Ng made the 
leap to sit among the school record holders in the triple jump. The Hong Kong native jumped an astounding personal best of 49’6.5” . 
The mark is a provisional qualifying mark — 
an especially strong one seeing as it only took 48’10” to make the NCAA National meet in 2011. Ng also took first in the long jump with a mark of 22’4.5” , ahead of senior jumps captain Jeff Head, 21’8” , and senior Shaun Tu, 20’11” .
Other event winners on the Triton men’s 
side include sophomore Kellen Levy, who ran an 8:40.59 to take the 3k ahead of sophomore Ben Rich — who crossed the line eight seconds later for second place. 
Junior transfer Quentin McWhorter won the 
110m hurdles with the time of 15.96. Freshman standout Jake Herbold won the 400m hurdles with a time of 55.93s, a scoring mark at last year’s conference meet and an amazing time for such a young collegiate career. Jake “The Snake” is going to be an all-American to watch out for. Sophomore Ben Berthet set a personal best in the pole vault at 14’9 inches to open a very promising run at the CCAA crown. Senior all-rounder Nicholas Howe took the high jump at 6’3.5” , but was disappointed to not go higher after clearing 6’9” last week at the alumni meet.
Although the men stood out, the women 
shone brighter, with senior sprint team captain Jacqueline Rose and senior jumps team captain Erin Langford leading the way.
The women’s 4x400m relay started with 
freshman Elexi Snover running a strong first leg and handing off the baton to freshman Jessica Beerman right in the middle of the pack. HOT OFF THE BLOCKS
Men’s 
Basketball 
Splits on the 
RoadNo. 1 UCSD Capture Conference TitleUCSD Track & Field Sweeps Pomona and Claremont in Season Opener
he No. 1 nationally ranked UCSD 
Women’s Basketball team now stands 
two games away from closing out its 
regular season as undefeated.
The Tritons have already clinched a 
conference tournament berth with their 
And now, going into the last weekend 
of conference play, they have captured 
the regular season title with wins against 
second in conference Cal State Monterey 
Bay and seventh place Cal State East Bay.
On Friday, the Tritons topped Cal State 
Monterey Bay (17-6) on the road, beating 
the Otters by eight points — their closest 
victory since their double overtime win 
against Chico State on Jan. 7.
Cal State Monterey Bay took the early 
lead in front of a raucous home crowd of 
817 people, but the Tritons took charge 
with a three-point play from senior 
forward Lauren Freidenberg and a 
three-pointer from senior spot up 
shooter Daisy Feder in their next 
Feder went three-of-seven 
from behind the arc and five-
of-16 from the field for 17 
Freidenberg also finished 
with 17 points, while junior 
guard Emily Osga led the 
Tritons in scoring with 20 
From there, UCSD never 
of the half when Osga caught fire. 
The starting point guard scored eight 
points in a three-minute span to 
jump start the Triton offense.
“Tonight was just another 
example of the balance this team 
has, ” Elliott said to the UCSD 
athletics department. “We don’t 
have to rely on any one 
player to score to win. 
We have several indi
viduals that can step 
up and get the job 
done and to see 
such a balanced 
effort in a tough 
environment on 
the road was 
really impres
s i v e .”  
Saturday,  
the Tritons 
 PHOTOS  BY BRIAN YIP/ GUARDIAN
NOLAN  THOMAS /GUARDIANCCAA CONFERENCE STANDINGS
SCHOOL
UC San Diego
Cal State Montery BayCal Poly PomonaHumboldt StateCal State L.AChico StateCal State East BaySonoma StateCCAA Record 
20-014-613-713-713-712-88-128-12 See TRAC K & FIELD , page 11
 See M. BASKETBALL, page 11