MONDAY , MAY 21, 2012 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
 VOLUME 45, ISSUE 55
INSIDE
MONDAY
Height: 1-1.5 ft.
Wind: 5-12 mph
Water Temp: 64 FTUESDAY
Height: 2-2.5 ft.
Wind: 2-9 mph
Water Temp: 64 F
WEDNESDAY
Height: 3.5-4 ft.
Wind: 4-11 mph 
Water Temp: 64 FTHURSDAY
Height: 3.5-4.5 ft.
Wind: 3-12 mph 
Water Temp: 64 FLOW
$3.99
Daniel’s Liquor, Ramona 
1350 Main St & 14th St
HIGH
$4.79
Valero, Coronado
400 Orange Ave & 4th St.MONDAY
H 74 L 60TUESDAY
H 73 L 61GAS PER GALLON NIGHT WATCH FORECASTsSPOKEN
WEDNESDAY
H 69 L 61THURSDAY
H 67 L 59Birdland .................................2
Lights and Sirens ...................3Hypothesis Now ....................4Letter to the Editor ................5Uncommon Folk ....................6Crossword .............................9Sports ..................................12
MONDAY TUESDAY
Harry Potter...can teach you how 
to negotiate your way around a 
big, bureaucratic, impersonal institution.”
SETH LERER
Dean of UCSD Arts & Humanities“
WEDNESDAY THURSDAY
SURF REPORT
MONDAY , MAY 17, 2012 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG VOLUME 45, ISSUE 55SUN GOD 2012 IN 
PHOTOS. PAGE 10.
CAMPUS CLIMATE
Students 
Hold 
Peaceful 
Protests
BY A YAN KUSA RI
Staff Writer
Library Walk became a site of pro-
test, discussion and debate as student 
activists set up displays, staged march-es and held speaker series’ in support of each side of the Israel-Palestine conflict last week.
Activists from the Muslim Student 
Association (MSA) and Students for Justice in Palestine (SJP) grouped their events in what they called “Justice in Palestine Week, ” while Tritons for Israel (TFI) called its events “Israel Solidarity Week. ”
The largest display on Library 
Walk was the visual representation of the Israeli West Bank Barrier, built out of large wooden panels by mem-bers of SJP and the MSA. The wall was painted with statistics, graphs and images of the Israel-Palestine conflict. According to MSA member Omar Ahmad, it took three years and cost roughly $7,000 to build. 
Ahmad says that this year, the 
groups were careful to include sources for all the statistics on the wall at the bottom of the panels. 
“Many people don’t want to sup-
port us, ” Ahmad said. “We want them to know that we’re not making this stuff up, out of the blue. ”
MSA member Saad Y azdani said 
that local San Diego media outlets, like ABC and NBC 10, have tried to depoliticize the issue in their coverage of the events last week. “Justice in Palestine” and 
“Israel Solidarity” week on campus focused on human rights issues.SUN GOD FESTIV AL 
HITS CAPACITY
BY N ICOLE CHAN
Associate News Editor
This year’s Sun God Festival 
— featuring headliners 
Silversun Pickups, Paul Van 
Dyk, Chiddy Bang and Tommy 
Trash — celebrated its 30th anni-
versary with a sold out audience on Friday, May 18.
“Overall, this year’s festival was 
probably the smoothest it’s ever been, ” Associate Vice President of Concerts and Events Oliver Zhang said in an email. “Performances were smooth, and fairly close to the schedule. There weren’t any issues like artists missing their set or cut-
THE BEST DAY OF THE YEAR
CHANCELLOR SEARCH
BY ZEV H URWITZ
Associate News Editor
Pradeep Khosla made his first visit 
as chancellor-designate to the UCSD campus on Thursday, May 17. Khosla was honored at a welcome ceremony in the Great Hall in front of a crowd of approximately 250 students, adminis-trators and faculty, including outgoing-Chancellor Marye Anne Fox.
Khosla was confirmed as UCSD’s 
eighth chancellor by the UC Board of Regents at their May 16 meeting in Sacramento. He will take over for Fox, who has been chancellor since 2004.
Executive Vice Chancellor Suresh 
Subramani, who spoke first at the cer -emony, said he was eager to work with Khosla/uni00A0in the coming years.
“The road ahead promises to be 
exciting, ” Subramani said. “We do believe that we’re uniquely poised with respect to catapulting ourselves into our continued trajectory in excellence and we look forward to working with you under your able leadership. ”
Fox announced last July that she 
would step down as Chancellor in the summer of 2012 after eight years on the job. She only had positive remarks about the new chancellor, who will officially take office on Aug. 1, 2012.
“Y ou have a natural tendency to 
bring out the best of people, ” Fox said. “Y ou promote collaboration, innova-tion and interdisciplinary work and studies which are the building blocks that have established UC San Diego’s tradition of excellence and its reputa-tion. ”
Fox expressed her relief that some-
one would be taking over her job next year.
“Chancellor Khosla, ” she said. “Boy 
does that sound good. ”
Khosla received a series of gifts 
that Subramani calls a “Chancellor’s Survival Kit. ” He received a pair of rose-colored glasses from Subramani, an oversized parking pass from Chancellor Fox and a UCSD baseball cap and a basket of energy bars from faculty members.
“I don’t need these glasses, ” Khosla 
told the crowd. “Everything here is already rose-colored. ”
Outgoing A.S. President Alyssa 
Wing presented Khosla with a UCSD surfboard to remind him about the university’s reputation as ‘best surf school, ’ in addition to our academic achievements.
“I’m sure our surf team will be able 
to give you some pointers, ” Wing said to a chorus of laughter. “On behalf of 
Kholsa Makes First Official Visit to UCSD
INTERVIEWThe chancellor-designate 
speaks at a welcome event after confirmation from UC Regents.The Guardian ’s Margaret 
Y au sat down with Chancellor-
Designate Pradeep Khosla for an exclusive one-on-one inter -
view on May 17.
Guardian:  Can you tell me a 
little bit about your main goals for UCSD during your tenure? 
Pradeep Khosla: I think my 
main goal would be, well, sev-eral goals. Partly to sustain the momentum that Marye Anne Fox and her chancellorship has created. And partly to increase that momentum and take us into directions that we haven’t explored as directly, perhaps. 
G: Do you have any more 
concrete goals, for instance, 
See ACTIVISTS, page 3See FESTIVAL, page 2
See CEREMONY, page 3See KHOSLA, page 6BRIAN  MONROE /GUARDIAN BRIAN  YIP/ GUARDIAN BRIAN  YIP/ GUARDIANBRIAN  MONROE /GUARDIANting their set shorter. ”
For the third year in a row, 
RIMAC field reached full capacity. 
Student wristbands ran out right before the festival opened on Friday at 2 p.m. All 3,000 guest tickets sold out on Tuesday, May 15. In 2011, student wristbands ran out on Thursday evening before the event and guest tickets sold out in three days.
Muir College senior Nikki Dinh 
said she picked up her wristband on Thursday around 12:30 p.m.
“It took about 45 minutes to get 
my wristband, ” Dinh said. “That was the peak, I think. The line went all the way down to RIMAC. ”
New additions to this year’s festi-
val include the expanded dance stage to accommodate for the recent pop-ularity of electronic dance music. 
“I was at the dance stage most of 
the time, ” Marshall College senior Jessica Zhong said. “The dance stage was better than last year, but last year’s main stage was better than this year. Tommy Trash was my favorite DJ at Sun God 
— his set was awe-
s o m e .”
Zhang said he expects the new 
dance stage set-up to return in a similar capacity or be improved upon for next year.
“I also think that this year’s fes-
tival was the best it’s ever looked as well, ” Zhang said. “We made it clear from the beginning that we wanted to create a true festival environment and experience, and I think we’ve achieved that and more. ” 
Some students thought that the 
security presence increased this year, evident by new security measures, such as the separation of male and female festival attendees at the secu-rity-staffed entrance to the festival grounds. 
“It definitely felt like they were 
stricter on wristbands [this year], ” Dinh said. “They separated us in the beginning, but when we went back around 5 p.m., they didn’t separate the women and the men. ”
Zhang said that he could not 
speak about security changes to this year’s festival at the moment, but added that the ASCE staff will be debrief the event this week and dis-cuss security issues then. “I think that the feedback to the 
festival has been generally positive, ” Zhang said. “I believe that the com-bination of the look and feel of the festival matched with strong live performances really won students over. I’m not going to pretend to be oblivious to some of the criticism we received regarding the lineup, but ultimately, the reaction after the day of the festival is all that matters to me. ”
Readers can contact Nicole Chan at 
n3chan@ucsd.edu.2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY, MAY 21, 2012 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG
MASTERS DEGREE IN  
INTERIOR ARCHITECTURE
CERTIFICATE IN INTERIOR DESIGN
For details call (310) 825-9061,  
or visit uclaextension.edu/Guard_MIA12
!"""#$!%
13336.indd   2 4/26/12   10:59 AMUCSD Students Faculty & Staff
FREE  Moving T ruck
      and Free Rent!A Triton
Tradition
San Diego Self Storage wants to recognize the most 
deserving student by offering free summer storage. Please go to our facebook for more information.
www.facebook.com/SelfStorageSanDiego
ucsdguardian.orgmore content...
get informed...new, bold look!
visit
more content... new, bold look!
ucsdguardian.org
more content...
new, bold look!
more
content...ucsdguardian.org
bold, new
look!ucsdguardian.orgThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays during the academic year by UCSD students 
and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2012, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the opin-ions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. Hilary buried a sandwich near Peterson Hall. Someone else ate it. 
General Editorial: 858-534-6580  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Focus: focus@ucsdguardian.org
Leisure: leisure@ucsdguardian.org
Hiatus: hiatus@ucsdguardian.org  
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-0468
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Emily Ku 
Marketing & Advertising Director
Brandon Katzer
Marketing Assistant
Nicholas Paladino
Webmaster
Bryan Smith
Advertising & Marketing Assistants
Christine Alabastro 
Christine Doo 
Shilpa Sharma
Advertising Design & Layout 
Alfredo H. Vilano Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Page Layout
Leo Bui, Angela Chen, Margaret Yau, Rebecca Horwitz, 
Arielle Sallai, Nathan Toung
Copy Readers Nadine Blanco , Cindy Bui, Robert PondEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
Associate News Editors
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports Editor
Focus Editor
Leisure Editor
Hiatus Editor
Associate Hiatus Editor
Copy Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Development EditorAngela Chen
Arielle Sallai
Margaret Yau
Nicole Chan
Zev Hurwitz
Madeline Mann
Hilary Lee
Rachel Uda
Nicholas Howe
Mina Nilchian
Arielle Sallai
Ren Ebel
Andrew Whitworth
Monica Haider
Emily Pham
Andrew Oh
Nolan Thomas
Nathan Toung
Jeffrey Lau
Rebekah Hwang
Hayley Bisceglia-MartinBIRDLAND By Rebekah Dyer
VISUAL DIARY By Khanh Nguyen
CORRECTIONS
The Guardia n corrects all errors 
brought to the attention of the 
editors. Corrections can be sent to editor@ucsdguardian.org.In the May 17 issue, Long Island University-C.W . Post was incorrectly listed as located in Rochester, New Y ork. LIU-Post is actually located in Brookville, New Y ork. Tighter Security, Stricter Wristband Enforcement at This Year’s Sold-Out Festival
/uni25B6 FESTIVAL, from page 1
BRIAN  YIP/ GUARDIAN“The Palestinian narrative has been 
misrepresented by the media, and this 
week, we’re trying to correct that, ” he said. “They normalize the conflict; they make it out like it’s okay for it to happen, because it’s complicated, when it’s not. It’s a humanitarian crisis, sim-ply put. Gaza Strip is one of the world’s largest open-air prisons. ”
TFI president Daniel Friedman 
said Israel Solidarity Week was created because Jewish students on campus were feeling targeted by the claims made by SJP and MSA. 
“There’s an international move-
ment against us, ” Friedman said. “Just as with the American government, not everyone agrees with every Israeli policy. But using words like ‘racist’ or ‘apartheid’ to describe an entire nation 
— what that does is imply that 
the entire state is racist, that the entire state is bad. ”
Friedman said the rhetoric of the 
pro-Palestinian groups was not accu-rate, and the TFI displays were con-structed to convey that. 
“It’s not like everything [on the 
pro-Palestine groups’ boards] is a lie, but when terms like ‘ethnic cleansing’ and ‘genocide’ are thrown around, it misrepresents what’s actually happen-ing, ” he said. “What’s happening is a conflict. ”
Student activists set up between 
6:30 a.m. and 7:30 a.m. every morning, and took down their displays every evening between 4 p.m. and 5 p.m. TFI members handed out pamphlets on human rights and answered ques-tions at “Lunch and Learn” events on Monday, Tuesday and Thursday. Pro-Palestine student activists walked up and down Library Walk holding signs for their “Silent Protests, ” which occurred during passing periods on all four days of the event. 
The two groups held various speak-
er series’ and solidarity events through-out the week. On Monday, MSA held a speaker series featuring Nasser Barghouty titled “What is Apartheid?” discussing the nature of inequality in the Middle East. SJP held a spoken word event on Tuesday, featuring poet-ry, written and read by UCSD students,   that advocated Palestinian liberation. 
In response, TFI held a panel on 
Wednesday on the Israel-Palestine conflict featuring two UC professors and a graduate student. On Thursday, TFI arranged for a non-Muslim Iranian refugee to the United States to speak about the problems in the Middle East.
The wall built by MSA and SJP that 
stretched throughout Library Walk was twice as large as it was when it debuted two years ago. 
“It’s impossible to miss now, ” 
Ahmed said. “But even as it stands, it’s not enough to convey all the informa-tion. Maybe one day it’ll cover the entire Library Walk. But hopefully not, because that would mean the problem would still be unsolved. ”
Readers can contact Ayan Kusari at 
akusari@ucsd.edu.THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY, MAY 21, 2012 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 3
Full-time UCSD students are eligible for 
a voucher with a value of up to $400*. No matter what sparks your interest, we have the perfect class for you to express yourself. 
SUMMER VOUCHER DATES   MAY 21-25 
(First-come, ﬁ  rst-serve, while vouchers last.)
 Undergrads
To pick up your vouchers, bring your student ID and go to the Extension Student Services Center, Building C.
*Any additional cost over $400 is payable at time of registration. 
 Some restrictions apply.It’s Time to Get Creative
ART
 PHOTOGRAPHY
 DIGITAL ARTS
FOREIGN
LANGUAGES
SPANISH
TRANSLATION &
INTERPRETATION
HUMANITIES &
PERFORMING
ARTS
CREATIVE &
FEATURE
WRITING
COPYEDITING
& TECHNICAL
COMMUNICATION
Learn more  > extension.ucsd.edu
Call (858) 534-3400 or visit Extension Student Services, Building CLIGHTS & SIRENS
Friday, May 11  
11:17 a.m.: Hazard situation  
There was a “sticky substance” near 
an elevator at Mandeville Center. Referred to other agency — EH&S. 9:44 p.m.: Possession of marijuana  
Marijuana was impounded at Parking Lot 207. Report taken . 
11:01 p.m.: Alcohol contact  
A minor was cited for drinking alco-hol at Muir Apartments. Closed, cited and released . 
 Saturday, May 12  
12:18 a.m.: Citizen contact  
A drunk minor was urinating in pub-lic by Muir College Drive and showed a false ID to the police officer. Closed by adult arrest . 
 Sunday, May 13  
12:17 a.m.: Welfare check  
A minor subject was drinking on the roof of Asante Hall. Closed, cited and released . 
1:25 a.m.: Drunk in public  
The subject at Parking Lot 310 had possible alcohol poisoning and a “swollen right ankle. ” Transported to hospital . 
11:54 p.m.: Disturbance, noise  
Subjects in a pool by Regents Road were being loud. Will cooperate . 
 Monday, May 14  
12:33 a.m.: Missing person  
There was a “possible missing person” at Muir Apartments. Report taken . 
10:40 a.m.: Medical aid  
The subject at Argo Hall felt like faint-ing. Transported to hospital by medics. 
9:39 p.m.: Preserve the peace  
The subject at The Village Building 8 was “moving” and receiving threats from roommates. Information only . 
 Tuesday, May 15  
1:02 a.m.: Speeding  
A vehicle in Parking Lot 207 was doing donuts. Gone on arrival . 
3:06 a.m.: Citizen contact  The subject at Village East 2 was “screaming profanities. ” Unable to locate . 
8:57 a.m.: Medical aid  
The subject’s “legs and fingers” were numb at Sixth College Residence Halls. Transported to hospital . 
 Wednesday, May 16  
6:03 a.m.: Disturbance, fight  
The subjects were fighting physically in Parking Lot 103. Closed, cited and released . 
3:45 p.m. - 6:30 p.m.: Report of petty theft  
Some tools were stolen at 1 Miramar Parking Structure. Report taken . 
6:27 p.m.: Hazard situation  
The subject was in “unauthorized area” in Wells Fargo Hall. Field inter -
view administered . 
7:11 p.m.: Drunk in public  
A middle-aged woman was drunk at Social Sciences Building. Closed by adult arrest . 
 Thursday, May 17  
3:32 a.m.: Welfare check  
The subject was “unresponsive” due to alcohol at Campus Services Complex Building B. Transported to detox . 
8:45 a.m.: Burglary  
The subject was seen going over a balcony and into a sliding door at Matthews Apartments. Checks OK. 9:33 a.m.: Injury  
Two bikers collided into each other at Social Sciences Building. Report taken . 
6:07 p.m.: Information  
A 911 call was made to San Diego Police Department regarding a pos-sibly armed subject near North Torrey Pines Road and Muir College. Unable to locate . 
11:02 p.m.: Alcohol contact  
The subject at Muir Apartments was “talking to himself. ” Information only .
— COMPI LED BY  SARA H KANG
Staff WriterStudent Organizations Sponsored Speakers, Lunch-and-Learn Events 
/uni25B6 ACTIVISTS, from page 1
the students, we welcome you to our campus because here at UC San Diego we work hard and we also play hard. ”
Khosla, who has served as 
Engineering Dean at Carnegie Mellon University since 2004, received a standing ovation when he took the stage and announced his excitement to lead UCSD.
“I have never seen a university 
that in 50 years, has accomplished so much, ” he said. “I never thought I’ d go to a public school, but never say never. ” /uni00A0
Though Khosla garnered much 
support during his visit to UCSD, his appointment as chancellor has not gone without criticism. Khosla and the UC Regents have come under fire by state legislators including Lt. Gov. Gavin Newsom for the compensation package that the Chancellor-Designate will receive over the next few years. 
Khosla will receive $411,084 
annually — 4.8 percent more than Chancellor Fox received — with a relocation allowance of over $100,000 distributed over the next four years. 
At a press conference follow-
ing the ceremony, UC Office of the President Media Relations Director Steve Montiel defended Khosla’s sal-ary, saying that the increase in salary was necessary to attract qualified can-didates for the job.
“Chancellors make a difference, ” 
Montiel said. “[Salary increases] are crucial to the future of UC campuses. ”
Montiel noted that Khosla will 
rank 52 out of the 61 members of the American Association of Universities in salary amount. He also said that Khosla’s relocation allowance is typical for all UC chancellors.
“Relocation compensation is set 
at one-quarter of one year’s salary, ” Montiel said. “This will be paid over four years. ”
Montiel noted that while Khosla’s 
salary is more than Fox’s, it is sig-nificantly less than the salary he had at Carnegie Mellon. He also noted that Khosla will forfeit other benefits he had at Carnegie Mellon such as free tuition for his son Nathan who attends Carnegie Mellon as an undergraduate.
Readers can contact Zev Hurwitz at 
zhurwitz@ucsd.edu.New Chancellor Taking a Salary Cut, Will Earn More Than Fox
/uni25B6 CEREMONY , from page 16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY, MAY 21, 2012 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG
	

$""

#  % 
#  % 
#  % 25 ﬁnalists. One lucky winner. The human eye likes to selﬁshly devour 
contemporary art. Create original art inspired by the Greedy Organ eyeball and it could be your ticket to fame. Finalist artwork will be displayed at MCASD and one lucky winner will be featured in an ad campaign.  
Enter online by June 10, 2012. Fame awaits. 
!!!$%! 
 # 25 and under free admission is generously 
supported by Qualcomm Foundation.Creative by
		any plans for administrative changes 
during your time at UCSD? 
PK: I think it would be too pre-
mature for me to walk in, in two hours, and tell you how I think about life and the situation. If you look at this place, it has achieved a lot in the last 50 years. And it has achieved that partly because of the entrepre-neurial nature of the faculty, partly because of strong leadership and partly because of both. So, going forward, it would be important for us to define what is a good enabling environment that allows a student to succeed the way he or she wants to, that allows a faculty to achieve what they want and for the staff to have good careers. But given all the difficulties we are facing right now, in terms of budgets and whole lot of other issues, we have to define what is a sustainable-enabling environ-ment. And if we can define it and achieve it, this system would be a self-perpetuating system that would, over time, would keep feeding into itself and its successes. And we would become a greater and greater university every day.
G: What do you think are UCSD’s 
biggest issues?
PK: I could outline many, but 
I would say budgetary issues. I’m not talking about campus budget-ary issues, I’m talking about the UC and the state budget and its impact on the quality of education. I think that issues related to programs for students, what are the right types of programs for students, what are the right levels of programs for students, what is the right investment for this, I think would be an issue. 
I think other issues that I alluded 
to in my brief address upstairs where the three parts of the campus can find their way to be seamlessly inte-grated, the three parts being Scripps, General Campus and the Medical School. I think if you take a good look at the future, health care and human wellness are going to domi-nate this country and society as a whole. And we have such a power -
ful presence in general campus and medical school that we need to find a way to innovate them. 
G: The UC Regents discussed a 
potential 6 percent increase in tuition for the coming 2012-13 school year during their last meeting. How are you planning on addressing rapidly increasing student tuition? 
PK: I wish there was a magic 
bullet I had, a silver bullet where I could say, “Forget it, UC San Diego is not going to do [tuition increas-es]. ” Secondly, I think the way to fix this is over time, to raise more money for student scholarships, for undergraduate scholarships. But that is a process that can take one, two, three decades, to get to a point where everybody can go to school for free, it’s nearly impossible. For example, the richest university in the country with the largest endowment, Harvard, still cannot afford to pay 100 percent tuition for everybody, even though technically they can, but given their other expenses, they cannot afford to do that. 
Students just have to accept the 
fact that there is some level of pay-ment required of them. The question is, what is the right level and what is affordable? And this campus, and I don’t know if I’m mistaken, I think more than 55 percent of students on this campus receive some sort of financial aid — and significant financial aid. And so I’m trying to figure out how you, as a writer and an editor of this newspaper asking this question, are you addressing the 45 percent or the 55 percent, who receive a significant amount of financial aid.
G: In response to that, there have 
been a number of student-based coalitions on campus, including the Public Education Coalition, who have been fighting for the past year against rising tuition. I think the main issue is the problem of priori-ties, which actually leads me to my next question. /uni00A0 There is a poten-tial $50 million cut in state funding in the coming 2012-13 school year. What would you say are your pri-orities for budget cuts? For example, a number of libraries on campus, including IR/PS and CLICS were shut down this year. 
PK: I can tell you that if we 
shortchange the quality of educa-tion to our students, that we are shortchanging the very purpose as to why this university exists. Now, in this context, we are trying to look-ing at what a high-quality education means, what are the various com-ponents that have to be maintained and strengthened, and what are the components that are fine to have, but if they walked away, the impact would not be as much on the quality of education. I really want to focus on the quality of education, the qual-ity of experience for undergraduate and graduate students. 
G: Former Chancellor Marye 
Anne Fox created a number of administrative diversity positions in response to the Compton Cookout. How are you going to address the issue of diversity and overall cam-pus climate? /uni00A0Do you have plans for increasing the enrollment of under-represented groups? 
PK: I clearly have a goal of 
increasing enrollment, but I have to work with my senior staff, the faculty and students, because I’m sure there are many good ideas floating around that I am unaware of. We need to create an understanding about the right way to achieve this goal. 
G: How do you plan on working 
with the Associated Students in the future? 
PK: Last evening, at dinner, I sat 
next to student named Raquel, and I told her that I am going to count on her to get me connected with the stu-dents, because there has to be a way for me to talk to students directly, without anybody being able to filter your access to me and my access to you. I think we just have to work with each other to make sure that there is enough access and enough conversa-tion going on. And it was not just the Associated Students. There was something else, the SAAC [Student Affirmative Action Committee], and I was told that they feel they don’t have enough voice or representation in the chancellor’s office. And to me, every student counts exactly the same, and I want every student to have some form, some voice in the chancellor’s office.
Chancellor-Designate Kholsa Wants More Student Involvement, Representation in Administrative Decisions 
/uni25B6 KHOSLA, from page 1
PHOTO  COURTESY  OF MICHELLE  MOWAD/ LA JOLLA  PATCHOPINIONMADELINE MANN
opinion @ucsdguardian.orgCONTACT THE EDITOR4 THE UCSD  GUARDIAN | MONDA Y, MA Y 21, 2012 | WWW.UCSD GUARDIAN.ORG
When choosing what meat 
you are going to BBQ in this wonderful San Diego 
sunshine, please be informed. Choose your meats wisely, and marinate them in beer to help prevent cancer.
Two months ago, Harvard 
scientists dropped a bombshell. They claimed that one out of five people that have a single serving a day of 
processed red meat (bacon, hot dogs, 
sausage, salami) is going to experience an early death, probably from heart disease or cancer. Leading authors in the Harvard study, An Pan, Ph.D. and Frank Hu, M.D. Ph.D., based their conclusions on a 28-year study of 83,644 women and a 22-year study of 37,698 men. But don’t worry. If you’re having a single daily serving of unprocessed red meats like regular beef, pork and lamb, you only have a 13 percent chance of dying early. Awesome.
Where I’m from, we eat, sleep and 
breathe steak. On regular occasion, we would get our oak fire going to cook Tri-Tip, T-bone or New Y ork Strip, with corn, homemade garlic bread and slow cooked buttered onion. In fact, the most famous restaurant in our town — Jocko’s Steak House — still grills their steak on oak. The rest of their food pretty much sucks, especially their salad.  The point is, I feel your pain. But the truth is clear: If you’re not going to be a vegetarian or vegan, then chicken, turkey and fish is really where it’s at. BBQ’ d vegetables also taste amazing, and you know it.
 It’s not just the high saturated 
fats in red meats that cause disease. UCSD’s Ajit Varki, M.D., has shown that humans have an antibody that specifically attacks a sialic acid that is present in vertebrate mammal cells (cows, pigs, lambs, chimps) but not normally present in chicken, turkey, fish or humans. In a weird twist of evolution, eating foods that contain this sialic acid (cow, pig, lamb) causes us humans to incorporate it into our cells and present it on the surface, as if it was our own. Because of this, our own antibodies attack it, which leads to inflammation. Inflammation is linked to many diseases, including cancer. Berkeley’s January 2008 wellness letter, backed by UC Berkeley School of Public Health, discussed the idea that “low grade inflammation may be the cause of all chronic diseases. ” It’s no secret that charring your meat also causes cancer. Leading author Robert Gunier at UC Berkeley showed that “those who reported eating grilled, roasted, or broiled meat” had significantly higher derivatives of carcinogens in their urine. So, slow cook your meat. Don’t burn it. Wrap your meat in aluminum foil to help prevent fat from dripping into the charcoal as this can also cause a higher amount of carcinogens. And in addition to your spices, include a good beer, a tiny bit of lemon juice and some olive oil in your marinade. These ingredients can substantially decrease the amount of carcinogens that end up in your grilled meat. Stay omnivorous my friends.Be Good to 
Your Steak, it Just Might Fight Back
Hypothesis
Now
JONATHAN OKERBLOM
jjokerbl@ucsd.edu
that have a single serving a day of 
Hypothesis
JONATHAN 
In response to 23 car accidents and three deaths caused by people walking 
while texting, the police department in Fort Lee, N.J. has begun ticketing 
people for “careless walking. ” Similar safety measures need to be taken by police officers around the country because texting can dangerously reduce awareness for both pedestrians and drivers.
The police only resorted to this policy after stopping and warning 575 
individuals who were crossing in a dangerous manner, according to John Chichowski, a columnist for NewJersey.com. Since the incidents still persisted despite the warnings, the police began issuing tickets, resulting in 117 tickets handed out since late March. Pedestrians have a responsibility to be safe on roads, as seen in jaywalking laws spanning across nearly every U.S. state. This policy not only tries to protect pedestrians but also drivers that can only do so much to veer away from distracted texters.
While some might argue that this policy micromanages people and doesn’t 
treat them like capable adults, one must keep in mind that there is strong evidence that texting is distracting. There have been incidents of/uni00A0people walking into walls, falling into fountains and even almost walking into a bear — all of the incidents were caused by texting while walking, from an ABC report titled “Texting Dangers. ” This, coupled with the accidents, deaths and the research that states that pedestrians are 60 percent more likely to swerve into someone while texting — reported by Mobiledia — reinforces the fact that this is something that would benefit the safety of citizens in the long-run.
This policy has only been implemented after accidents, deaths and 
warnings by the police. It is a policy aimed for the protection of both pedestrians and drivers.
  — ALEKS LEVIN
Staff WriterBan Ensures the Safety of  Both Pedestrians and Drivers Lawmakers Should Focus on More Pressing Safety Concerns
The police of Fort Lee, N.J., have recently begun issuing $85 fines to 
citizens caught texting while crossing the street. While lawmakers have the right intentions, this new ban unnecessarily micromanages citizens and discounts the notion of personal responsibility. It is more important for lawmakers to invest in other safety efforts, such as a more aggressive campaign to punish distracted drivers.
Laws requiring drivers to put down their cell phones while driving are 
reasonable, but to expect the same thing of pedestrians is going too far. When a driver in the United States gets behind the wheel, he accepts huge legal responsibilities such as having normal or corrected-to-normal vision, functioning brake lights and placing children in appropriate safety seats. Drivers can be expected to obey these laws because they are tested and licensed before driving, while pedestrians have no such contract.
Furthermore, distracted texting only endangers the life of the person 
texting, while distracted driving poses a threat on a much wider scale. Laws are costly to enforce, and having to police such a petty ban is an inefficient use of officials’ time. It would be more beneficial for lawmakers to prioritize their efforts on more threatening public safety concerns. The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration reported that there were 4,280 pedestrian fatalities in 2010, with the majority due to urban arterial roads that are not accommodating to pedestrians. According to David Goldberg, spokesman for the Transportation for America campaign, the creation of more safe crosswalks would be essential to preventing pedestrian deaths. 
The bottom line is that it is over the top to impose this ban — the dangers 
of distracted walking should be left to the discretion of individuals.
— HILARY LEE
Associate Opinion EditorQUICK TAKESSINCE MARCH 2012, A NEW JERSEY TOWN BEGAN HANDING OUT $85 TICKETS TO PEDESTRIANS WHO TEXT WHILE 
CROSSING THE STREET IN RESPONSE TO THREE DEATHS THAT OCCURRED WHILE WALKING AND TEXTING.
As graduation season rolls around, several state governments — Idaho, 
Indiana, Minnesota and South Dakota most recent among them — are rolling out scholarships for students who graduate in three years or less. The University of California system should promote a similar monetary incentive to graduating early — it proves most beneficial to the student, the college and the whole state economy alike. 
A 2002 study conducted by 
Kathleen Porter for the ERIC Clearinghouse on Higher Education found that students who graduate earlier are more likely to earn more money over the course of their careers. This finding makes sense: students who push themselves to finish early have more time and energy to focus toward landing a good job and moving upwards professionally.
Graduating early benefits students by compelling them to take greater advantage of college resources — namely, summer sessions. UCSD’s summer break is 15 weeks long — enough time, thanks to the way our academic schedule is set up, to take over a quarter’s worth of classes. The nature of the course offerings as split between two sessions makes it possible for students to get ahead. Furthermore, students receiving financial aid during the school year are always eligible for aid over the summer. But as it currently stands, less than half of UCSD students take classes over the summer session. Incentivizing graduating early would encourage more students to use their time effectively and get the most out of their undergraduate education. 
Students should also graduate 
early, especially if they are part of the growing trend of pursuing education beyond undergrad studies. Graduate school, to name one example, has become vastly more popular than before. /uni00A0A 2010 study conducted by Duke University found that student admissions to graduate school have shot up by an incredible 31 percent in the past decade alone. And at schools like UCSD, which have reputations for being even more pre-professional than average, the old notion of one’s undergraduate years being the last schooling before entering the workforce is even less close to reality.
Not only that, but in this economy, 
it takes longer to get to graduate school. The average entering age for the UCSD School of Medicine is now 25. That is up by a full three years from 22, the average age for entering students in 1970, the earliest year for which data is available. More students need graduates school to get a job, and 
The UC system should follow the example of  other schools across the country and provide monetary 
incentives to students who graduate early, which would benefit both students and the state economy. 
By Ay An KusA ri • stAff Writer
See GRADUATING, page 5
 ILLUSTRATION  BY SNIGHDHA  PAUL/GUARDIANKeep it BriefTHE UCSD  GUARDIAN | MONDA Y, MA Y 21, 2012 | WWW.UCSD GUARDIAN.ORG 5
students need work experience to 
get into graduate school. Students interested in professional school should graduate early because, depending on the work experience a particular grad school requires, it may be the only way for them to land a job before they are 30.
Students who graduate early also 
benefit the UC system, because it loses roughly $1,000 per quarter on each undergraduate enrolled at one of its campuses. This is because the cost of educating a UC student still exceeds the tuition they pay. /uni00A0And 43 percent of UC students take longer than four years to graduate, according to the 2011 College Portrait, released last December by the Office of Student Research and Information at UCSD. This 43 percent exacerbates the problem by costing the UC thousands of dollars in extra quarters for their education. The benefit — an employed, tax-paying California citizen — is the same no matter when a UC student graduates. Conversely, students who graduate early are financial assets to the UC because the university system gets the same benefit at a lower cost. 
Students who graduate early get 
to pay less as well. UC tuition has been increasing at a rate of over 30 percent every five years, according to statistics released by the UC Office of the President, and shows no sign of slowing down. Interest 
rates for California students were higher in 2011 than they were in over a decade, and the average debt at graduation was at an all-time high of $18,113. In this economy, saving thousands of dollars on tuition by graduating early is a definite plus for any student. 
In this economy, graduating 
early can offer significant benefits for students seeking to enter the workforce, as well as those seeking to apply to graduate school. Furthermore, at a public school like UCSD, it offers unquestionable benefits to the university as well.
Readers can contact Ayan Kusari at  
akusari@ucsd.edu
VISIT REVISEDCODE.UCSD.EDU
The Student Conduct Code Revision Workgroup 
thanks UC San Diego faculty, staﬀ and student leaders for their interest and their feedback.  Since May 2009, the Workgroup has served in partnership with individuals and groups to develop a new Code for UC San Diego.
The Workgroup has reached out to the 
UC San Diego Community through nearly 30 consultations about the new Code, and feedback has been incorporated through a continuous revision process.  
In addition to active participation among the 
students, staﬀ , and faculty serving on the Work-
group, the new Code has been benchmarked with peer institutions and vetted through the UC Oﬃce of the President. Read about the new UC San Diego Student Conduct Code, its history, and the members of the UC San Diego Community who collaborated to develop it. Visit RevisedCode.ucsd.edu.Dear Editor,
/T_here are strict regulations on 
what can be considered “organic. ” 
However, there are very few on the word “natural. ” 
/T_here is high fructose corn 
syrup (or “corn sugar, ” as the new marketing term goes) in many products that claim to be “all natural. ”
What’s so bad about high 
fructose corn syrup? /T_here is a lot of labeling that has started to advertise that it does not contain this chemical, but why? 
Well, it only  shuts down our 
body’s ability to say when we are full.
Y ou ever wonder why “Big 
Gulps” and “Super-Size Me” are modern inventions when we have had soda for decades? 
It is not because people have 
just recently acquired a taste for the sugary beverage. 
In fact, it is because no one 
could stomach that much soda decades ago. 
Literally, when you ate too much 
sugar your body would reject the contents of your stomach. 
Not any more, thanks to high fructose corn syrup, you won’t lose your giant lunch. Still not seeing a problem? 
Y ou never get full and never feel 
satis/f_ied. One liter of soda later and you are still craving sugar. 
Princeton University has even 
started linking high fructose corn syrup to abnormal weight gain when compared to other sweeteners. 
And we wonder why America 
keeps having to loosen its belt with all our diet fads and the French, eating eclairs, stay skinny. 
It is time we start pondering the 
unfamiliar ingredients on the labels of our food. We may then discover the unfortunate truth: our food is toxic.
—Lara Isaacson
Freshman, Eleanor Roosevelt College
Graduating Early Mutually Benefits Students and UniversityLETT ER TO THE EDITOR
▶ The Guardian  welcomes letters from its readers. 
All letters must be addressed, and written, to 
the editor of the Guardian . Letters are limited 
to 500 words, and all letters must include the writer’s name, college and year (undergraduates), department (graduate students or professors) or city of residence (local residents). A maximum of three signatories per letter is permitted. The Guardian Editorial Board reserves the right to 
edit for length, accuracy, clarity and civility. The Editorial Board reserves the right to reject letters for publication. Due to the volume of mail we receive, we do not confirm receipt or publication of a letter.Corn Syrup Shouldn’t Be 
Considered “ All Natural”SOLVE FOR X By Philip Jia
▶ GRADUATING, from page 4
APPLY TODAY.  APPLICATIONS AT UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG/JOBS OPINIONFOCUSMINA NILCHIAN
focus @ucsdguardian.orgCONTACT THE EDITOR
featuresTHE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY, MAY 21, 2012 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 7
“You can go on as many 
soul-searching trips as you want, but you still 
won’t find the answers, ” Shivani Singh said.
For Singh, Muir ’00, it took a 
lot more than just a trip to find her higher calling. 
At the young age of 29, Singh has 
made it her life’s goal to spread the knowledge she has gained through-out her years of wandering.
Her book “Discover Y our 
Dharma, ” the winner of the Best New Age Book Award in 2010 from the Next Generation Indie Book Award, and her company Dharma Express both work to give lost souls like Singh a step in the right direc-tion.
It was only after Singh’s own long 
struggle finding purpose that she began to help others find theirs.
Despite finding a stable job after 
graduation, Singh, a bright phys-ics major, was not satisfied with the path her life had taken. Her problem was a common one among recent college graduates: She did not feel that her day job was fulfilling enough to construct an entire life around. 
THE
PATH  to 
DHARMA
 See DHARMA, page 8UC San Diego Graduate Shivani Singh was lucky 
to land a successful job after graduating. But it 
was a while before she found her own secret to 
fulfillment  — by helping others find theirs.
PHOTO  BY ALEXA  ROCEROUNCOMMON FOLK8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY, MAY 21, 2012 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG
For over a decade, J.K. 
Rowling’s fantastic world of magic and adventure has 
amazed people of all ages. Geisel Library has brought that world into reality by hosting Harry Potter’s World: Renaissance Science, Magic, and Medicine — a traveling exhibit put on by the U.S. National Library of Medicine.
The exhibit highlights how many 
of the marvels and ideas seen within Harry Potter’s stories, such as alche-my and astrology, have real world roots as traditional Renaissance traditions. 
The exhibit, running from May 
6 to June 16, consists of a number of displays and events, including guest lectures by Professors Henry Powell of the UCSD School of Medicine, Robert Graham of the Jacobs School of Engineering, Literature Professor Stephen Potts and the Dean of UCSD Arts and Humanities Seth Lerer.
Professor Lerer, a former teacher 
at Stanford and Princeton and author of Children’s Literature: A Reader’s History from Aesop to Harry Potter, is interested in how the Harry Potter universe has also portrayed books and literature from the past.
“What interests me about Harry 
Potter is why so many of the scenes in the books and movies take place in the library, and in my talk I sug-gested that wizardry is a heightened form of literacy; meaning that to be a great wizard is to be a great reader of a textbook, ” Lerer said.
Many of the classes in the books, 
like potions, are similar to chemistry classes from both the Renaissance and present times. In a school where many aspire to be doctors, Harry Potter’s World then offers students a new perspective on Harry Potter and their own studies.
“In this exhibit it shows us that 
a lot about medicine and alchemy and reading is about healing, and it’s about the place of early medicine and the human body in all this, ” Lerer said. “There is a lot about Harry Potter that takes us back to a world where doctors and physicians were as much magicians as they were scientists or surgeons. ”
Lerer believes that this exhibit is 
important not just for the compari-sons it brings, but also the valuable lessons it can teach to UCSD stu-dents, especially new students.
“I think one of the things that’s 
very difficult for a lot of people is that they feel lost in big, impersonal places, ” he said. “If you grew up in a small town, or went to a small high school, and you come to a place like UCSD; it’s large and bureaucratic. There are these strange traditions; there are these hierarchies of power. Harry Potter and this exhibit can teach you how to negotiate your way around a big, bureaucratic, imper -
sonal institution. Where a chancel-lor can show up as magically as a Minister of Magic. ”
 For more information and a 
full list of events, check out http://ucsdnews.ucsd.edu/pressreleases/harry_potters_world_renaissance_science_magic_and_medicine/.
 For an overview of the exhibit 
and other locations, check out http://www.nlm.nih.gov/exhibition/harry-pottersworld/.
— Brendan Orta
CONTRIBUTING  WRITERGrowing up, she aspired to 
become a female astronaut and travel to the moon. To no one’s surprise, the ambitious and talented student was able to a score a job with NASA after graduation.
After working with NASA as a 
researcher for three years, she admit-ted to losing her passion for her childhood dream job. 
“ After a while, it was as if I was 
going day-in, day-out, like a phonetic machine, ” Singh said.
Hoping that furthering her educa-
tion would rekindle the spark, she left her job and attended graduate school, majoring in material sci-ence and engineering and work-ing with the Scripps Institute of Oceanography on environmental pollutants. But there was still some-thing missing. 
“Everyone would always tell me 
how brilliant and smart I was, but I didn’t know exactly what to do with that, ” Singh said. “ And I saw everyone around me, all of my classmates from high school and grad school, and I thought, ‘ All of these people are so awesome, but they’re not doing any-thing about it. ’” 
She decided to leave her graduate 
program to travel the world. During a trip to India, she was introduced to the concept of Dharma, the driving force behind Dharma Express.
Dharma is a Sanskrit word and a 
philosophy that refers to the concept of a higher duty, or purpose in life. Singh realized that in her own strug-gle to find fulfillment, it was dharma that she was seeking.
Upon her return, Singh took to 
her library for more inspiration. She pulled books from many of her per -
sonal heroes such as Mother Teresa, Ghandi, Leonardo DaVinci and Pablo Picasso, looking to find how they went about finding their unique contribution to the world. She found one common denominator: journal-ing. All of these famous figures were avid writers and by getting their thoughts out on paper, they were able to organize their character in a way that helped them to realize the path-way they wanted to take.
Singh’s next step was to work with 
neuroscientists at UC San Diego. She joined the journaling technique with the research done by UCSD neu-roscientists on the effects of music and thinking. This combination, she found, streamlined the process of discovering one’s identity and inner thoughts. 
She then began to work on start-
ing up Dharma Express.
 “So I tried to make this pro-
gram that would help all of those people change the world, ” Singh said. “Y oung people, like you and I, could make a difference if they only knew h o w.”   
Working with the Start-Up 
Leadership Program, a company designed to link young entrepreneurs to the resources they need to begin their innovative companies, she was able to begin the founding research for her book, and the company that would spread the ideas in it.  She became a teaching assistant for Sixth College’s writing program, Culture, Art and Technology, where she would use the students in her discus-sion section to test out the journaling and music system she created. This, along with the donated work of many of her peers, allowed her to develop the specific regimen that Dharma Express promotes to followers today.
“Discover Y our Dharma, ” the 
book she wrote based on all of her research, outlines the way that her program can help the gifted scholars and minds around her to do exactly what the title suggests. “Discover Y our Dharma” has inspired people to clear their minds of clutter and enable them to find their ultimate goals in life. 
After writing the book, her com-
pany began developing other plat-forms and forms of technology, such as web applications and blogs, which would spread her coaching sessions to reach larger audiences. Singh still travels, but instead of going to look for answers she is now looking to spread them. She tours universities, hoping to guide college students that she knows are facing the all too common dilemma of asking, “What next?” Because, although it is pretty common knowledge that university graduates have serious brains, some-times the secret lies in figuring out exactly what to do with them.
— Alex Rocero
STAFF  WRITER
IN FOCUS
HARRY POTTER’S WORLD/uni25B6 DHARMA from page 7UCSD Alumna Looks or Fulfillment, Founds 
Company That Helps Others do the Same
ILLUSTRATION  BY REBEKAH  DYERTHE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY, MAY 21, 2012 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 9
extension.ucsd.edu
Undergrads  - T o pick up your vouchers, 
have your student ID card and go to Extension 
Student Services Center, Building C.Graduate and medical students  - please 
contact OGSR and the School of Medicine for  
their complimentary vouchers.Take advantage of 
UC San Diego Extension’s 
UCSD Student Grant Program  
(formerly known as Complimentary Enrollment)
Summer Quarter 2012 Dates:  May 21 - 25, 2012
(First-come, ﬁrst-served, while vouchers last.)
 
Call (858) 534-3400 or visit Extension Student Services, Building C
*Some restrictions apply.ARTS * Drawing: Focus on Perception 
* Intermediate Piano * Building a 
Photography Portfolio * Improv 101 * FOREIGN LANGUAGES * Spanish 
to English Translation * Japanese for Communication I * HUMANITIES & WRITING * Creative Writing I * Copyediting I * Tools for Technical Communicators * DIGITAL ARTS * Digital Media * 3D Studio Max I* Dreamweaver I * BUSINESS * 
Project Management Essentials * Career Management *  Financial Decision Making * Global Marketing * PUBLIC SERVICE & 
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY * Introduction 
to Sustainability * Urban Planning and Development Law * Global Service Program * LIFE SCIENCES * Introduction to Molecular Biology * Biostatistics * Pharmacokinetics * INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY * Text Mining * Web Publishing I * Biological Database Design * HEALTHCARE, BEHAVIORAL SCIENCES 
* Medical Terminology * Good Clinical Practices * Nutrition for Fitness and Sport
Choose from these courses and more. Visit extension.ucsd.edu for a complete listing .
open enrollment
open enrollment
enroll today!
summersession.ucsd.edu
STORAGE
Call for reservation  858-566-3881With student ID. Daily pro-rate available to Sept.
OTHER SIZES AV AIL ABL Escripps mesastorage5x5  $25  per month
5x6  $28  per month
5x7  $30  per month
5x8  $32  per monthstudent summerrates10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY, MAY 21, 2012 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG
MASTER OF ARTS IN 
INTERNATIONAL STUDIES
AT CHAPMAN UNIVERSITY
Participate in small classes with students committed to global change
Travel and work in global internships to put 
your knowledge and skills into practice
Learn with accomplished faculty who bring 
decades of real-world international expertise��
�
Learn more at
www.chapman.edu/wilkinson/intlstudies/
One University Drive • Orange, California 92866
714-997-6752
About Chapman University
Chapman University is one of California’s oldest 
and most respected private universities. Tracing its heritage to 1861—and celebrating that 150-year-old heritage throughout 2011—the university now excels in the sciences, business, law, humanities, educational studies, ﬁ  lm and media arts, and performing arts.
SUN GOD FES TIVAL 2012
BRIAN  MONROE /GUARDIAN
BRIAN  MONROE /GUARDIAN BRIAN  YIP/GUARDIANTHE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY, MAY 21, 2012 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 11
BRIAN  MONROE /GUARDIANBRIAN  YIP/GUARDIANBRIAN  YIP/GUARDIAN12 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY, MAY 21, 2012 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG
CAMPUS2012
5.21-5.27CALEND AR
YACHT
with THE ONE AM RADIO
@ THE LOFT • 8pmTHU5.24MON5.21
10am
NACHO FUNDRAISER - LIBRARY WALK
Siblings Without Borders will be having a nacho 
fundraiser on Monday, May 21st out on Library Walk in order to raise money for our organization and the Boys and Girls Club in Clairemont Mesa. Come out and support us by buying some delicious nachos! Sponsored by Siblings Without Borders, a registered UCSD student organization.
12pm
MEDICINE IN EAST AFRICA - A KENYAN 
PERSPECTIVE - UCSD SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
The UCSD School of Medicine Global Health Group is 
pleased to host Dr. Amos Otedo for a talk on medicine in rural and urban communities in East Africa. As a trained gastroenterologist with a successful private practice in Kisumu City, Western Kenya, Dr. Otedo has tackled a wide range of healthcare issues facing the developing world. He is a fellow of the Salzburg Seminar, a Rotarian, a treasurer at Chianda Community Hospital, Chairman of the Okella secondary school and board member of the Horizon Initiative, working for the benefit of orphans in Kenya. Dr. Otedo also conducts research for the Kenyan Ministry of Health and is a published author on clinical research involving malaria, HIV, STIs and Hepatitis.
4pm
'TEA WITH TRITONS' INTERFAITH GATHERING - 
BEAR ROOM, PRICE CTR WEST
Come join us for an interfaith dialogue in the Bear 
Room (in Sun God Lounge) with sweets and tea. All faiths are welcome and it will be a great opportunity to create allies and learn more about each others' spirituality.. Sponsored by CSI-Communication and Leadership, Center for Student Involvement.
5pm
SHAHLA TALEBI: GHOSTS OF REVOLUTION - 
LITERATURE BLDG RM 155
A native of Iran, Shahla Talebi lived through a 
revolution (1979), over a decade of political imprisonment under two different regimes of the Shah and the Islamic Republic of Iran, and a period shaped by eight bloody years of War with Iraq between 1980 to 1988. Since August 2007 she has been a faculty of religious studies in Arizona State University. Talebi's first book, Ghosts of Revolution: Rekindled memories of imprisonment, was published in 2011 by Stanford University Press. She is interested in understanding violence, memory, mourning, and trauma, and in tracing the topographies and impasses of the Iranian Revolution of 1979 and its aftermath. She is particularly interested in the way people re-create new forms of life and community in the midst and in the aftermath of violence.2pm
FREE FITNESS CLASS: HATHA YOGA
Drop into The Zone every Wednesday from 2:00-2:45pm for Work-It-Out Wednesday, a fun and FREE exercise class offered by FitLife. From Zumba to Yoga to Pilates and more, every week features a different work-out.. The practice of Hatha yoga increases vitality, concentration and a sense of well being through the use of body postures and breathing techniques. You don't need to bring anything other than comfortable clothing. Please arrive early as the class is first-come, first-serve. All levels welcome!
5pm
'TASTY TUESDAY' FREE WEEKLY COOKING 
DEMO - THE ZONE
Drop into The Zone every Tuesday from 5:00 to 6:00 
pm for amazing live cooking demonstrations, complete with free food! With local sponsors such as Whole Foods Market, Housing and Dining Services, Recreation, and Student Health, we'll have you heating things up in any kitchen, at any time. Come hungry, leave healthy!
8pm
ARGENTINE TANGO CLUB WEEKLY GUIDED 
PRACTICA - MAIN GYM, WEST BALCONY
UCSD Argentine Tango Club presents a guided 
practica for beginners and advanced beginners from 8-9 pm on Wednesdays during spring quarter, led by Grigor and Ten. No partner is required. No prior experience is necessary! The guided practica is free for club members. (Club membership per quarter: $10/student, $20/non-student. Please fill out the membership form on the website.) Stay for the free practica from 9-11 pm to practice new steps and dance in a relaxed, informal setting. For more information about the club, visit tango.ucsd.edu and friend us on Facebook or join the mailing list.
THU5.24
1:30pm
THERAPY DOGS! - THE ZONE
Get some love from adorable, professional therapy dogs! Studies show that petting an animal can lower stress, and the smiles on students' faces proves this to be the case every time.
5pm
GAIA MUSIC AND ART FESTIVAL - STUDENT 
CENTER & PORTER'S PUB
Gaia is a day for the UCSD community to come together 
in solidarity around sustainability.  The festival starts at The Hump in the Old Student Center from 5pm - 8pm with acts from Dance Sport, the Beat Busterz, Soda Pants, and several other amazing performers. Your favorite DJs from DVC will be performing at Porter's Pub. Come out and celebrate all the great things that the UC San Diego community and students are doing in and around campus. Sponsored by Engineers for a Sustainable World, Deejays & Vinylphiles Club, Biofuels Action and Awareness Network, the Student Sustainability Collective, Triton Engineering Student Council, Dance Sport, the Sustainability Resource Center, Multicultural Coexistence, and Renewable Energy Society. Email cegroebner@gmail.com with questions.
8pm
YACHT WITH THE ONE AM RADIO - THE LOFT
YACHT is a band, belief system, and business conducted by Jona Bechtolt and Claire L. Evans of Marfa, Texas and Portland, Oregon. All people are welcome to become members of YACHT. Accordingly, YACHT is what YACHT is when YACHT is standing before you. UCSD Students: $12, Regular: $15WED5.23 TUE5.22
11am
FREE FITNESS CLASS: AB-SOLUTE CORE 
STRENGTH - THE ZONE
Drop into The Zone every Friday from 11:00-11:45am 
for Fitness Fridays, a fun and FREE exercise class offered by FitLife. From Zumba to Yoga to Pilates and more, every week features a different work-out. Take time to AB-solutely crush and strength your core, your abdomen, back, and hips. Suitable for any fitness level, we will work on your core from the inside out using a variety of exercises that target EVERY muscle in your midsection. You don't need to bring anything other than comfortable clothing. Please arrive early as the class is first-come, first-serve. All levels welcome!
6pm
FPN PRESENTS LINKEDU: SAN DIEGO TECH 
EXHIBITION AND NETWORKING JOB FAIR 
Join FPN (Financial Professionals Network) and our 
sponsors: Philanthro and EvoNexus for our first Venture Capital/Technology Networking event! The event will be held on Thursday, May 24th, 2012 from 6:00pm to 9:00pm at the Multipurpose Room, Student Services Building, on the UC San Diego campus. Presented by Financial Professionals Network, a registered UCSD student organization. For more information regarding each organization please visit: FPN: http://www.ucsdfpn.org/ Philanthro: http://www.philanthroproductions.org/ EvoNexus: http://www.commnexus.org/incubator/FRI5.2511:30am
PIZZA FOR STUDENT-PARENTS - WOMEN'S 
CENTER CONFERENCE RM
Please join us for this free community event for students 
with children! Mothers, fathers and children are all welcome to attend! This event will last until 2:30 pm so everyone will have time to stay and enjoy some free pizza or grab a slice on the run. The event will take place on Tuesdays: May 15th, 22nd, 29th and June 5th! Come by and meet other student-parents and learn more about programs being offered for student-parents at UCSD. There will be live video documentary interviews being filmed for parents who would like the opportunity to share their story and experiences as student-parents.
6pm
FREE THE 10 BENEFIT CONCERT - PRICE CTR 
EAST BALLROOM
Join UCSD musicians and dancers as we gather to raise 
money for 10 girls to be freed from sex slavery in Mombasa, Kenya this August! This benefit concert's proceeds go to a rehabilitation home for 10 girls.  $10 at UCSD Box Office/at the door Featuring Jewel Marie, Samuel Lin and Lawrence Park, Kunfusion, The Lifted, Madeline Mann, 4no1. With raffles, photobooth & more! facebook.com/freethe10/ Sponsored by Just Change, a registered UCSD student organization.
9am
BITS CONFERENCE - BUSINESS IDEAS TO 
SHARE - PRICE CENTER EAST
The BITS Conference, or 'Business Ideas to Share', 
is Alpha Kappa Psi's innovative approach to help the growth of aspiring business students and leaders at UC San Diego. Alpha Kappa Psi is a registered UCSD student organization. As a leading business organization at UCSD, we strive to provide students with a business education through valuable interaction with industry professionals. This year, our mission is to connect leaders of the business and technology industries to the UCSD student population, serving as a forum to discuss innovative ideas and encourage progressive thinking and action.SAT 5.26
THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDA Y, MA Y 14, 2012 | WWW.U CSDGUARDIAN .ORG 13
Guardian Classifieds are placed online and are FREE for UCSD. Low cost classified placements for our print 
edition are also available to the UCSD campus and the public at   ucsdguardian.campusave.com
Guardian Classifieds are placed online and are FREE for UCSD. Low cost classified placements for our print edition are also available to the UCSD campus and the public at   
ucsdguardian.campusave.comcrosswordweekly
ACROSS
1 Edible bow ties
6 Largemouth fish10 Places14 Twitter message15 Provoke16 Shimmery sushi fish17 God of Islam18 “Happy Gilmore” actor Sandler19 Song sung alone20 Good reason to reopen a closed case23 Intent24 Former franc fraction25 Broad genre that began in Van Gogh’s 
time
31 Important purchase for a bride35 “__ Fideles”: Christmas carol36 Miami University state38 “Figured it out!”39 Emeralds and diamonds40 Enlarge, as a road42 Elvis __ Presley43 “Who am __ judge?”
44 Unit of force45 Natural ability47 __ Rica49 Original thought51 LAX or JFK, for American Airlines53 Joule fraction54 Title of Obama’s 2009 Cairo speech, and 
what 20-, 25- and 49-Across have in common
61 Festive party62 Tree house?63 Spine-chilling66 Like Homer’s “Iliad”67 Hudson Bay native68 Furnish with more weapons69 Eraser crumb site70 Pay attention to71 Eyelid woesDOWN
1 “Harper Valley __”2 Hole-making tool3 Ego4 Rip5 Deep down inside6 Rodeo bull7 White House staffer
8 Pole or Czech9 Big rigs10 One who puts on airs11 Atop12 Soft rock13 Horse’s footwear21 Muscular22 Birdbrain, or extinct bird25 Hocus-pocus26 W ords that start many Keats titles
27 Band samples28 Twisty road curve29 Beverly Hills’s __ Drive30 Alexander-Great link32 Like some seals33 Glistened34 Rudolph’s boss37 Apprentice41 B&B42 Baba who tangled with thieves44 Slap on, as paint46 Casbah city48 Hitting sound50 Blew off steam52 W here second stringers sit
54 Like fine wine55 Scruff56 Y ale alumni
57 Richard of “Chicago”58 W ords of understanding
59 Hair removal brand60 Cloudy64 Anger65 Letters after elsSTUDENT HOUS ING
Studio Apartment - Nice Studio apart -
ment w/ free high-speed internet and Dish 
Network. Swimming pool and gym nearby. Within walking distance to University of 
San Diego and downtown San Diego. Hurry, this apartment will not last long. Reply online to listing ID: 29402489
Great studio one block from SDSU - Great 
studio apartment in a quaint building just off campus. Rent is $450 and the utili-ties are INCLUDED in the rent. There is a laundry room down the hall, and there is also furniture for sale. Available in June. Contact me for more info and photos! Reply online to listing ID: 29246538
$825- Pacific Palms - Pacific Palms 
Apartment homes offers studio and one bedroom apartments that are conve -
nient to SDSU, Dowtown San Diego, Mesa College, Mission Valley and all the conve -
nience of all of the Clairemont shopping, restaurants and entertainment. Reply online to listing ID: 29252301
$945- Cedar Shore - O ur unique collection 
of studio, one and two bedroom apart -
ment homes offer a variety of floor plans 
and living solutions to fit every lifestyle. Enjoy a refreshing swim in our sparkling pool, relax in the soothing spa, or take a short stroll to Mission Bay for a walk along the warm sand beaches. All this and more is yours to enjoy at Cedar Shores. Reply online to listing ID: 28955408
$1059- Studio Bluffs 2 - You couldn’t ask for 
a much better location to live in--The Bluffs 
II is in smack in the center of the Mission Valley neighborhood of San Diego, and we can promise you’ll never be bored! We 
hope you are the energetic type who likes to live life to the fullest every day. Walk to 
Fashion Valley from your home (though you might want to take a car if you are doing more than window shopping!) for dozens of shops and restaurants. If that’s not enough to shrink your wallet, you’ve got plenty of other options, including the Westfield ShoppingTown Mission Valley. 
Practice putting on the golf course, take in a Padres game, catch some waves or sun at the beach, head to downtown San Diego for some of the hottest nightlife--whew! Once you are done exploring everything (or just get wiped out), come home to the Bluffs, where you can relax in our reju-venating park-like setting, either on the walkways or from your patio or balcony. At first, you might not even know what to do with all the space in. Reply online to listing ID: 28575242
/uni00A0 Summer Sublet Master Bedroom at 
Valentia - I’m looking for a 3rd sublet for my 3BR apartment from mid-June through mid-September. Amenities include: pri-vate bath & toilet, private balcony, walk in closet, washer and dryer within the unit, full kitchen, pool, jacuzzi and a small gym. I’ve shared this room with my friend and it perfectly fit both of our beds and desks, as well as sharing the closet. If inter -
ested, please contact me at since I check that email more often. Females preferred! Reply online to listing ID: 28323745
POST FOR FREE AT
ONLINE, PRINT, OR BOTH!YES
CLASSIFIEDSPEOPLE STILL READ
ucsdguardian.
campusave.com POST FOR FREE ATPOST FOR FREE AT
ONLINE, PRINT, OR BOTH!ONLINE, PRINT,
OR BOTH!YESYES
CLASSIFIEDSPEOPLE STILL READCLASSIFIEDSPEOPLE
ucsdguardian.
campusave.comucsdguardian.
campusave.com
 STILL READ
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY, MAY 21, 2012 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG
3 BIG WAYS
(760) 436-­2338
860 Regal Road, Encinitas, CA 92024YOU CAN SAVE!
1
2
3$1 Move-­In
Special
10% OFF
RegularPrice Units
FREE Use of
Move-­In Truck
• 47, 000 s tudent and s taff population
• 50 high-tr affic dis tribution points
• 78% of college students use coupons
• 25, 000 websit e page view s per month
• 80% of college s tudents r ead their campus 
new spaper
Contact Us: 858-543-3467
www.ucsdguardian.org/advertising
The UCSD Guardian is the largest established 
news outlet on campus and the biggest access channel for businesses targeting UCSD students!Make a Statement with 
47,000 Eyes On YouTHE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY, MAY 21, 2012 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 15
Looking for a great pharmacy school?
Look no 
further than 
the University of
Michigan.Meet some alumni of California universities who recently enrolled 
as University of Michigan PharmD students.
1. Financial support unequalled by any
other U.S. pharmacy school.
2. Outstanding pay .
3. Job security in economically uncertain
times.
4. Unlimited opportunities to improve
people’s lives .
5. Unparalleled career choices .
6. Continuous growth potential .
7. Life and career mobility .8. The prestige of owning a degree from
one of America’s top-ranked pharmacy
schools.
9.Membership in an influential alumni
network spanning the globe.
10.The power to apply medical knowl-
edge at the forefront of technological 
innovation.
11.Small class size to maximize individual-
ized educational experiences.
12.One-to-one learning with world-
renowned faculty .Every year, UCSD graduates choose the PharmD Program at the University
of Michigan College of Pharmacy. In fact, nearly 20 percent of our
PharmD enrollment is comprised of alumn i f rom California universities. 
What accounts for Michigan’s popularity among Golden Staters? First, 
we are consistently ranked among America’s top pharmacy schools. Secondly,
we consider a lot more than GPA and PCAT scores when evaluating your
application.
Earn your bachelor’s degree at UCSD, and then earn your PharmD at U-M.
That’s what many UCSD students do every year.
To learn more about the PharmD Program at Michigan, visit our Web site at
www.umich.edu/~pharmacy . Or contact the College of Pharmacy at 734-764-7312 or
at mich.pharm.admissions@umich.edu .
Still looking for a reason to make Michigan your pharmacy school? Consider these :
Your future never looked brighter.Baseball Eliminated From West Regional T ournament
Michaels on a passed ball to bring 
the score to 6–2. UCSD picked up another run in the bottom of the ninth, but it wasn’t enough to close the gap.
GAME 2
UCSD recorded five runs in 
the second inning, as the bottom of the Triton batting order loaded the bases, bringing junior Danny Susdorf up to bat. 
The All-West Region selection 
singled to left field for two RBI and advanced to second on a throwing error. 
Batting in the two-hole, junior 
Richard Siegel was walked, while sophomore Garrett Tuck singled through the left side to bat in two more runs. Western Oregon’s Kirk Lind gave up his fourth walk in two innings to put the Tritons up 5–0.
Susdorf picked up his third RBI 
in the third inning to put the Tritons up 6–0. 
UCSD used another five run 
inning in the sixth to secure the win. With two outs Michaels batted in Ringold to score. Susdorf batted in another run, before Siegel struck a double for one RBI. Tuck capped the inning by singling to right center for two RBI.
Right-hander Goodbrand went 
the distance, recording his 11th straight win. 
GAME 3Neither team got on the board 
until the fifth inning, when Dixie State’s Joe Andrade homered down the rightfield line for two RBI.
The Red Storm put UCSD 3–0 in 
the hole in the sixth, as the Tritons rotated through three pitchers in the inning — Selarz, junior Richard Kilbury and Tuma.
Dixie State hit up Tuma for 
three runs in the seventh, with two doubles.
UCSD recovered four runs in the 
eighth, as Susdorf singled with bases loaded, for two RBI. 
Siegel followed up with a hit to 
score one more, while Susdorf was brought in on a Tuck ground out. 
  
 
Readers can contact Rachel Uda at ruda @ucsd.edu▶ BASEBALL, from page 16
could, always thinking about where I wanted to be. 
I wanted to stand on that 
national podium as champion, and I wanted Western Field Athlete of the Y ear from the NCAA, and more than anything, I wanted and want to go to London for the 2012 Olympic games.
My hard work paid off, but 
limited me as I trained like a bodybuilder rather than a javelin thrower, making my muscles and upper body too tight to throw as well as I wanted to in the regular season. I threw an automatic qualifier, and came into Nationals ranked sixth.  
/uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0  I came into that meet in North Carolina with a simple attitude, ‘I will win. I have decided. ’  
/uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0  I did not start out strong and barely made finals, but popped off a big throw in the fifth round to take the competition and become national champion. 
And then I was home, and it 
was over. That’s how fast it was.  
/uni00A0Junior year, I won the competition on my first throw. I have made Nationals my house.
This year, I won the CCAA for 
the fourth consecutive time and got the award Thu got four years ago — Western NCAA Field Athlete of the Y ear.
Now, I am looking for my 
third NCAA Championship title, and it will come.  
/uni00A0/uni00A0/uni00A0 As for my final goal this year — London 2012 — it will come.Howe in Hunt 
For Third 
NCAA  DII
National Title
▶ HOWE, from page 16
No. 24 Softball Falls in Title Game to No. 1 Valdosta
head coach Patti Gerckens said to the UCSD Athletics program. “We lost to the No. 1 team in the country, they were good and they deserved to win this game. ” /uni00A0
With a lackluster finish to the 
regular season — finishing fourth in the conference with a 23-13 record, unranked nationally — the Tritons seemed a long shot to qualify for the national tournament. 
Plagued with injuries, UCSD 
outclassed its CCAA opponents to claim the automatic bid to the West Regionals. The sixth-seeded Tritons fought their way through eight games, going 6-2 to enter the College World Series as the lowest ranked team. 
“Our regular season was 
mediocre, but our postseason was tremendous, ” Gerckens said. “We extended it by three weeks, had more games than ever before and overall it was a great season. Only one team can end with a win and unfortunately this year it wasn’t us. ”
Senior centerfielder Kris 
Lesovsky and Gaito — UCSD’s two All-Americans — both earned All-Tournament team honors.  
/uni00A0/uni00A0/uni00A0 Lesovsky — a fifth year transfer from Florida Tech — leaves UCSD with a handful of career records. The centerfielder has the record for all-time leader in batting average, hits, RBI, runs, doubles and walks.
Gaito graduates from UCSD 
as the all-time leader in wins (98), saves, appearances, innings, strikeouts and complete games. The right-hander (98-31) recorded a 1.10 ERA over the span of her last four seasons with the Tritons.
  
 
Readers can contact Rachel Uda at ruda @ucsd.edu▶ SOFTBALL, from page 16
NOLAN  THOMAS /GUARDIAN  FILE
NOLAN  THOMAS /GUARDIAN  FILESPORTSRACHEL UDA
sports @ucsdguardian.orgCONTACT THE EDITOR16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY, MAY 21, 2012 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG
/T_he No. 24 Tritons fought their way to the title game of the NCAA Division II College World Series, 
topping No. 2 Central Oklahoma and No. 3 Kutztown before falling to No. 1 Valdosta State 4-1.Out in theEndMaking 
this NCAA 
House My 
Home
I have been to the NCAA Track 
& Field Championships three times and I’ll be leaving this 
Tuesday for my fourth. My freshman year, I barely made the grade, getting in by the skin of my teeth and 
finishing not much better, but as 
for the past two years, I have made Nationals my home. 
During my freshman year, Nick 
Morilla, the UCSD throws captain at the time and a boulder of a man, was a big part of why I made it to Nationals in the first place. He was there as I was stepping onto the runway at the CSULA Last Chance meet.  
/uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0  I knew that throw was going to decide whether I was going to nationals with athletes that are now reached Olympic levels, or if I was going to miss out.  
/uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0  I’ll never forget Nick saying, “Come on Pookie, go home, go home!” 
Y es he called me Pookie, but that 
call to go home is what really fired me up and gave me the focus to post a new school record on that throw despite only being a freshman. 
When Nick said “home, ” he 
meant Texas, because Nationals that year were being held at Abilene Christian, just a few hours from my old high school in Little Elm, Texas. Just a few hours away from where I grew up.
Getting on that plane was 
honestly like hopping into the back of your big sibling’s car with all their friends. Y ou do not feel like you belong, yet you want to fit in so badly. That was me, the little sibling amongst giants. There were NCAA National Champions, Christine Merrill and Leah Blue, and many other All-Americans. I had only been doing this javelin thing for a few months but there I was, way out of my league.  
/uni00A0 /uni00A0 /uni00A0  The first night we were there, and every first night, the NCAA hosted a banquet for all the athletes and coaches. Aside from the sometimes questionable food, like a one-table, Italian-style buffet for 500 people, they handed out Regional Athlete of the Y ear awards at this banquet. That year, Danielle Thu, now an assistant coach for the team, received “Field Athlete of the Y ear” for the West Region.  
/uni00A0/uni00A0/uni00A0 As I watched her walk onto that stage, I knew that that was where I wanted to be.
The rest of the meet was a blur, 
with Danielle winning the hammer throw and Linda Rainwater winning the heptathlon. I threw, but not well enough to make finals, and then we were home.
That’s how fast it felt to me. 
There was not much more I could have done, but I swore then to work harder. No matter how much more talented or skilled others were, I would be better. I decided to just get in the weight room and lift. Picking up the heaviest things I Left, Center
NICK HOWE
nshowe@ucsd.eduTackle
BY RACHEL UDA
Sports Editor
The No. 24 UCSD Softball 
team’s bid for a second straight national title came 
to a close with a loss to No. 1 Valdosta State in the title game of the NCAA Division II National Championship last Saturday, May 19.  
/uni00A0/uni00A0/uni00A0 The Tritons opened the tournament with a win over No. 1 nationally ranked Valdosta State. UCSD would meet with the Blazers again in the final match, after falling out of the winner’s bracket with a 12-inning 1-0 loss to No. 3 Kutztown. 
The Tritons then battled their 
way back from the brink, beating Midwest champions St. Joseph’s 2-1 and then No. 2 Central Oklahoma 2-0 to advance to the title match against Valdosta. 
UCSD All-American senior 
Camille Gaito (33-12) took the mound for the Tritons. Pitching her 17th full game, Gaito gave up a home run to Valdosta’s Courtney Albritton in her first at-bat. The game remained scoreless until the fourth inning. With bases loaded, sophomore right fielder Caitlin Brown dropped a pop fly to put the Blazers up 2-0. 
Gaito retired her next two batters, 
to sneak the Tritons out of the inning.  
UCSD took one run back in their next turn at-bat, as sophomore left fielder Kirsten Willmon scored on an illegal pitch. 
In the bottom of the sixth, 
Valdosta put the game out of reach, as the Blazers put runners on first and second. 
The runners were moved over on a sacrifice bunt. With just one out, Gaito gave up her eighth hit of the game, bringing both runners in to score.
In just their second-ever 
appearance at the College World Series, the Tritons’ championship run counts as one of the most remarkable midseason turnarounds in program history. 
“There were times [this season] 
where I wouldn’t imagine we’ d be here. [Our players] were fighters, and I’m so proud of them, ” UCSD 
See SOFTBALL, page 15
See HOWE page 15Tritons Drop Out of  West Regionals
BY RACHEL UDA
Sports Editor
BASEBALL — After notching 
their fourth consecutive CCAA 
conference tournament title last week, the UCSD Baseball team’s season came to an end with two losses to Dixie State in the first round of the West Regional tournament.
The third-seeded Tritons 
opened NCAA tournament play last Thursday, May 17, dropping 7–3 to second-seed Dixie State. UCSD battled to stave off elimination in its second match against first-seed Western Oregon the following day with an 11–1 win, before conceding its second tournament loss to Dixie State 6–4. 
The Tritons will end the season 
with a 33–24 overall record, a regular season conference and CCAA tournament title. 
Despite losing for the second 
straight time in the West Regional round, the Tritons will come into 2013 with only one Triton — Gregg Ringold — missing from their batting order. 
The UCSD bullpen, on the other 
hand, will graduate five of their best arms — Justin Burns, Jeff Rauh, Greg Selarz, Elias Tuma and Tony Y ork. The Tritons will retain junior right-hander Ryan Goodbrand (11–0). The junior, who didn’t see much time last year behind Triton ace Tim Shibuya, has grown to become UCSD’s most reliable starter. Goodbrand went the distance in the Tritons’ 1–1 win over Western Oregon, allowing just five hits in his nine innings.
GAME 1
UCSD had a tough time in the 
box. The Tritons only managed to record three hits in their first five innings, as the Red Storm took a 6–0 lead off a grand slam in the bottom of the fifth inning. 
UCSD right-hander Trevor Scott 
was relieved in favor of Justin Burns in the sixth, as the Tritons mounted their comeback. The Tritons took one back, with sophomore Nick La Face — named the CCAA tournament’s most outstanding player — picking up his fifth home run of the season. 
Dixie State’s Michael Dedrick 
tallied his only two walks of the game to load the bases in the seventh. The Tritons scored sophomore Sam 
See BASEBALL page 15NOLAN  THOMAS /GUARDIAN  FILE
NOLAN  THOMAS /GUARDIAN  FILE
Out in the
End
NOLAN  THOMAS /GUARDIAN  FILE