THURSDAY , JUNE 7, 2012 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG VOLUME 45, ISSUE 60
INSIDE
THURSDAY
Height: 2.5-3.5 ft.
Wind: 2-13 mph
Water Temp: 64 FFRIDAY
Height: 2-2.5 ft.
Wind: 5-10 mph
Water Temp: 64 F
SATURDAY
Height: 1-2.5 ft.
Wind: 6-12 mph 
Water Temp: 64 FSUNDAY
Height: 1.5 ft.
Wind: 1-11 mph 
Water Temp: 64 FLOW
$3.85
US Gas, Escondido 
445 W 5th Ave & S Centre City Pkwy
HIGH       
$4.77
Pine Valley Store, Pine Valley
28820 Old Hwy 80 & Pine Valley RdTHURSDAY
H 72 L 61FRIDAY
H 70 L 61GAS PER GALLON NIGHT WATCH FORECASTsSPOKEN
SATURDAY
H 67 L 60SUNDAY
H 68 L 60Pun Time ...............................2
New Business ........................3Senior Send-Offs ...................4Year in Quotes .......................6Summer Preview  ..................9Sudoku ................................14Best of Triton Athletics ........16
THURSDAY FRIDAY
Chancellor Khosla. Boy does that 
sound good.”
MARYE ANNE FOX
Chancellor, UC San Diego
2004-2012 “
SATURDAY SUNDAY
SURF REPORT
“YOU CAN’T DO WITHOUT
GREAT STUDENTS”
The Guardian  sits down with Marye Anne Fox for her 
final interview as chancellor.
By Zev hurwitZ  • Associate News EditorCHANCELLOR
Guardian : So, first of all, 
congratulations on a phenomenal 
tenure.
Chancellor Marye Anne Fox:  
Thank you and I’m glad to hear that you feel that way about it.
G: Well I’m a first-year, so from 
what I’ve seen it’s been pretty good (Fox laughs). So you’ve been chancellor for the better part of a decade, what were the biggest issues that you faced when you first came here?
F: Well I think the biggest issue 
any new chancellor will face is maintaining the quality and reputation and enhancing it for the faculty and the students of this institution, and it becomes particularly difficult to do that when we don’t have enough money for operations or for financial aid for students. So far we’ve been able to put together packages that make some sense. But we hope that we can continue to do so. As you know, things are getting tighter and tighter. Y ou probably see it in class size and in availability of courses.
G: Do you anticipate that the same 
kind of challenges will continue for the next chancellor?
F: Y eah, certainly. I think the major 
issue for the next chancellor is how to maximize efficiency and minimize costs for the operation so that we can keep tuition as low as we possibly can.
G: Is there an easy way to accomplish that?
F: There is no easy way to 
accomplish it; you know we’re operating near the bone already, because we’ve had successive cuts for three years running and if the ballot initiative doesn’t pass in November there’s likelier to be a further diminishment of what we have.
G: On a broader note, what do you 
think is your biggest accomplishment that you’ve had as chancellor at UC San Diego?
F: Well I think that the 
construction program we’ve had provides the means by which we can compete for the very best. So in other words, if you’re a world-renowned scientist or physician, we have now the physical resources to recruit them in and give them a laboratory, give them a space to do their work. If you’re an undergraduate, then you probably can’t imagine life without the Price Center and we were somehow stuck living without it for a while and I think that’s had an impact on how students can relate to each other and to their faculty.
G: I think I read somewhere that 
you’re returning to teaching after this?
F: I’m on administrative leave 
for one year. What that means is: That’s what every chancellor gets. It’s supposed to be a year to retool intellectually, and then to decide what kind of tasks you’ll take on for the university. So on the one hand I might teach organic chemistry — it would be the 37th time I’ve taught chemistry if I do that — but I’m even more impassioned about the challenge posed by science and math education in schools in the United States. We’re getting students, even a few of them at UCSD, who aren’t adequately prepared in terms of science and math skills so I’m going to work with some foundations, put together some funding for a proposal of that sort. We’ll work with the Cal Teach program. We’ll work with some 
BY NICOLE C HAN
Associate News Editor
Some undergraduates will take 
their finals in Main Gym next week as part of a study administered by the Academic Integrity Office and the Office of the Registrar. Approximately 20 classes will participate in the pilot project, which is an experiment administering final exams in a “large common space” in order to meet growing classroom needs.
“We are often asked for larger 
spaces than we can provide for finals, ” University Registrar William Haid said in an email.
Main Gym will be furnished 
with eight-foot long tables and three chairs per table to accommodate approximately 400 students. The space is accessible for students with disabilities and can meet whatever accommodation the individual student requested, Haid said. 
Some students have raised concerns 
about taking finals in a non-classroom environment, but Haid said students should not be alarmed or concerned at the change. “Finals are routinely given in spaces 
that are not classrooms, such as the Price Center Theatre and Mandeville Theatre, ” Haid said.
Although Price Center Theatre 
is not a traditional lecture hall, courses are regularly held there to accommodate for larger class sizes.
According to Haid, UCLA, UC 
Berkeley, Stanford, MIT, University of Colorado at Boulder, University of Toronto and McGill University give their final exams in gymnasiums and non-classroom spaces.
“We would not schedule an exam 
in a space not appropriate, ” Haid said.
Readers can contact Nicole Chan at 
n3chan@ucsd.edu.Finals to be Held in Main Gym for First TimeACADEMICS
University Registrar: Lack 
of space leads 20 classes to experiment with new  
testing procedure.SCIENCE AND TECHNOLGY
Sea Bacterium Compound 
May Help Fight Cancer
BY AYAN KUSARI
Senior Staff Writer
Scientists at the Scripps Institution 
of Oceanography have isolated a 
new and potentially cancer-fighting compound from a bacterium that has recently been making headlines for being destroying coral reefs.
The team published a paper 
on its findings in the May 25 issue of “Chemistry and Biology. ”  
The bacterium —/uni00A0 Leptolyngbya 
crossbyana  —/uni00A0 forms enormous 
colonies in the ocean that are visible with the naked eye. The team is excited about the 
discovery of a new class of organic molecules the researchers have named “honaucins. ” They are distinguished by the presence of a chlorine atom in a primary position — at the end of a carbon chain. Having a halogen atom at the end of a chain makes these compounds extremely reactive, and extremely unusual.
Researchers in Gerwick’s 
laboratory conducted a variety of tests used to determine the function See CHANCELLOR, page 3
See BACTERIA, page 6ANDREW  OH/GUARDIANGRATUITOUS PICTURES OF  OURSELVES  PAGE 42 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY, JUNE 7, 2012 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG
1 Month FREE!
Reserve Your Space Today!Ask for details! Offer valid at Mira Mesa, Kearny Mesa & Fashion Valley locations only. For new customers only.  
On select units while supplies last. Cannot be combined with other discounts or offers. Expires 6/30/12.
Quick & Easy – Reserve Your Space Today!www.a1storage.com
Reserve Your Space Today!3 FREE Boxes!
Present this coupon for 3 FREE small boxes at Mira Mesa, Kearny Mesa  
or Fashion Valley locations only. For UCSD students only. No purchase  
or rental necessary. Expires 6/30/12. Limit 1 coupon per student only. Fashion Valley
1501 Frazee Road 
619-633-3061
Office Hours: 9-6 M-F, 9-5 S-S  
Access Hours:  7am-8pm, daily
For more info, 
download the QR Reader app, then scan the barcode.*Located off of Miramar Rd & Camino Ruiz24 Hr Rental/ 
Payment Kiosk  
available at Mira Mesa  
& Kearny Mesa!
Mira Mesa*
9701 Camino Ruiz 
858-790-8755
Office Hours: 9-6 M-F, 9-5 S-S  
Access Hours:  6am-10pm, dailyKearny Mesa
5654 Copley Drive 
858-939-9909
Office Hours: 9-6 Mon-Tue,  
9-6 Thur-Fri, 9-5 Sat  
Access Hours:  6am-10pm, daily
ucsdguardian.orgmore content...
get informed...new, bold look!
visit
more content... new, bold look!
ucsdguardian.org
more content...
new, bold look!
more
content...ucsdguardian.org
bold, new
look!ucsdguardian.orgPUN TIME By Irene Chiang
QUITE FRANKLY By Lior Schenk
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and 
Thursdays during the academic year by UCSD students 
and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2012, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. Was it a sweet dream, or a beautiful nightmare?
General Editorial: 858-534-6580  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Focus: focus@ucsdguardian.org
Leisure: leisure@ucsdguardian.org
Hiatus: hiatus@ucsdguardian.org  
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-0468
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Emily Ku 
Marketing & Advertising Director
Brandon Katzer
Marketing Assistant
Nicholas Paladino
Webmaster
Bryan Smith
Advertising & Marketing Assistants
Christine Alabastro 
Christine Doo 
Shilpa Sharma
Advertising Design & Layout 
Alfredo H. Vilano Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Page Layout
Leo Bui, Angela Chen, Margaret Yau, Rebecca Horwitz, 
Arielle Sallai, Nathan Toung
Copy Readers Nadine Blanco , Cindy Bui, Robert PondEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
Associate News EditorOpinion EditorAssociate Opinion EditorSports EditorAssociate Sports EditorFocus EditorLeisure EditorHiatus EditorAssociate Hiatus EditorCopy Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo EditorAssociate Design EditorArt Editor
Development EditorAngela Chen
Arielle Sallai
Margaret Yau
Nicole Chan
Zev Hurwitz
Madeline Mann
Hilary Lee
Rachel Uda
Nicholas Howe
Mina Nilchian
Arielle Sallai
Ren Ebel
Andrew Whitworth
Monica Haider
Emily Pham
Andrew Oh
Nolan Thomas
Nathan Toung
Jeffrey Lau
Hayley Bisceglia-Martin
Guardian Staff 2011-2012 (From left to right): Rebekah Hwang, Angela Chen, Nicole Chan, Hayley Bisceglia-Martin, Rachel Uda, Trevor Cox, Neda Salamat, Sarah Park, Nathan 
Toung, Margaret Yau, Nolan Thomas, Mina Nilchian, Zev Hurwitz, Leo Bui, Andrew Whitworth, Arielle Sallai, Taylor Hogshead, Madeline Mann, Ren Ebel, Emily Pham, Ayan Kusari, Cindy Bui, Andrew Oh, Monica Haider, Ashley Kwon, Stacey Chienof the undergraduate instructors to 
make quality teaching, particularly in science and math and in engineering, become the norm as opposed to the exception and I think it is the norm on this campus. I think teaching is taken pretty seriously by most of our faculty. 
G: So is that all for further down 
the road or is that for next year?
F: Well, next year what I’m going 
to do is try to determine which is a more productive route. In other words, if I can find external funding for the projects that we will do or bring together people who share that common interest so education studies, for example, the interactions we have with the Preuss School you know we’ll see. What advances we can make and whether I spend my life that way if that’ll make a difference or not. If not, I’ll take up more advanced courses, probably graduate classes and teach organic [chemistry]— the grad classes are easier.
G: What will you miss most about 
being chancellor?
F: The fact that I have access to 
students every day of my life, people who are well motivated and interesting to be with. Y ou can’t do without great students. And that’s one thing we have here is great students. Almost equally at least, we have great faculty as well.
G: What is the most important 
thing that Chancellor-Designate Khosla should know before he takes office in the fall?
F: He’s coming from one of the 
world’s best universities in his discipline so he is a scholar in his own right so he should anticipate being challenged by the strong students and strong faculty that we have here. We have a strong form of shared governance; the faculty helps the university analyze decisions before decisions are made. And they make decisions on their own for example the procedures for admission, and what degrees are going to be offered and what options there are, electives… be prepared to have terrific colleagues and students and provide them with an environment where they can simply thrive. 
Readers can contact Zev Hurwitz at 
zhurwitz@ucsd.edu.THE UCSD GUARDIAN |  THURSDAY, JUNE 7, 2012  | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 3
University of California Undergraduate Experience Survey
SURVEY
2012UNDERGRADUATES - TELL US ABOUT LIFE
AT UC SAN DIEGO AND WIN BIG PRIZES
It's easy.
It takes only 20-25 minutes!Take the UC Undergraduate 
Experience Survey 2012 Make a difference, and get a chance to win great prizes.
ucues.ucsd.edu
UC Undergraduate Experience SurveyUCSD Student Research and Information Office
12 UCSD Bookstore gift cards 
valued at $50.00 each
4 Apple iPads (3rd generation - 16GB Wi-Fi)
2 Xbox 360sParticipate and win.Tell us how you see it!              
Look for your official email,
or go directly to:Before the last A.S. meeting 
of this academic year, the senators congregated in the 
Forum to hold a mini retreat, parts of which they referenced through-out the meeting today.
Some mem -
bers of the public came to voice their dis-appointment in the dismissal of L eah Wong ’s 
appointment  as AVP Local Affairs.
Another member of the public 
denounced A.S. President Meggie Le for going to New Y ork City dur -
ing the A.S. budget meeting.
Le explained that she had gone 
to New Y ork City to attend a con-ference about racial climate and diversity. She felt that with the atmosphere that UCSD has had in previous years it would be in the best interests of herself, the council and the campus to go learn relevant information and bring it back.
“It’s important that you came in 
and checked in on what I’m doing, I’m really grateful that you came in. It’s nice to know that students are paying attention, ” Le said.
Annie Le from the SSC, Susie Kim  
from the Women’s Center and Kevin 
Quirolo a member of the Public 
Education Coalition stopped by the council meeting to give concerns and suggestions in the molding of an A.S. UCSD Human Rights Board.
“One of our main worries is that 
this board could claim a monopoly on the legitimacy of human rights activism, ” one of the presenters said. “It has a few shared purposes, but not a lot of shared tactics. ”
UCSB Human Rights Board 
founder Nicolas Pascal came by to voice his support for A.S. UCSD’s attempt at creating a similar entity. He presented council with the his-tory behind UCSB’s Human Rights Board and the work that it has done since then, including raising $50,000 
after the earthquake in Haiti in just over three weeks.
“This has 
immense poten-tial and promises to extend beyond your time on this campus and to 
other campuses as well; this could become a multi-campus endeavor, Pascal said.
Andrew Buselt and Jillian Du 
from the Green Initiative Fund came by to discuss the grants they have allocated throughout this academic year and had recipients from each organization — BAAN, Engineers for a Sustainable World, Books for Prisoners and the Box Art Project — came by to explain what they’ve done with the money.
Michael Long from the Biofuels 
Action and Awareness Network explained that BAAN exists to develop the biofuels sector and pro-vide a means of academic enrich-ment through real world research. He said that BAAN one day hopes to provide campus events and fuel campus transportation using bio-fuels.
Council approved AVP Academic 
Affair Sammy Chang’s decision to 
allocate his entire stipend to his staff.
SOV AC gave a presentation 
about their progress this year and reported that they’ve registered close to 2,000 students which brings UCSD from dead last to second within the course of a year in terms of registered voters among UC cam-puses.
Council Talks Presidential 
Absence, Human Rights Board
DANIEL SONG
New
d9song@ucsd.eduBusinessFox’s Achievements Include Price Center Expansion, Lab Rennovations
/uni25B6 CHANCELLOR, from page 1
of biological molecules.They determined that honaucins 
were lethal to many bacteria and could prevent inflammation--a biological process in humans that has been linked to a variety of immune diseases and cancer.
Honaucins are especially unique 
because they prevent other bacteria from reaching a certain population density, rather than poisoning each bacterium individually.
“They’re called anti-quorum 
sensing compounds, ” Gerwick said. “They represent a completely new mechanism for bacteria control. It’s believed that it won’t give rise to resistance as quickly. ”
Gerwick said that the finding 
was important because the effective lifetimes of current antibiotics are getting shorter and shorter.
“It used to be 10 or 15 years, and 
now it’s just a few, ” he said. “Bacteria nowadays have built up so many resistance mechanisms that they can become resistant at an increased rate. ”
According to William Gerwick, 
a professor both at Scripps and at Skaggs School of Pharmacy and a coauthor of the recently published paper, the Scripps team had a dual purpose in examining the bacteria.
“We certainly wanted to determine 
how the bacteria were killing the coral reefs, ” he said. “But we also wanted to see if we could isolate any potentially useful compounds from the bacteria. ”
The scientists believe the bacteria 
bleach coral reefs by secreting an as-yet unidentified poison.
“We don’t know all the 
mechanistic details, ” Gerwick said. “But we noticed bleaching occurred even where bacteria were absent. That gave us a clue that it might be a toxin that was doing it. ”
Leptolyngbya is too new to have a 
common name, but it is closely related to “ Angel’s hair alga” or Cladophora albida . It was first discovered just 
two years ago, causing irreversible damage to coral off the Kona coast 
in Hawaii. 
The bacterium is believed to 
be native to Hawaii and is usually inconspicuous. But in 2009, an enormous bloom, or rapid increase in algal population, caused hundred of miles of coral reef to “bleach” or turn white. Bleaching indicates that the organisms making up a coral reef have died.
“There’s a kind of irony to all 
this that amazes me, ” Gerwick said. “Here’s this organism that’s killing coral, that has within it the capacity to treat a variety of human disease. What is it that they say? One man’s trash is another man’s treasure. ” 
The researchers have isolated 
other compounds from the bacteria, but Gerwick says they have yet to make determinations about their structure and biological activity.
“Some things look really 
promising. But it’s too early to say anything for certain yet, ” he said.
Readers can contact Ayan Kusari at 
akusari@ucsd.edu.Scientists Studied Compound Because of  its Destructive Properties 
/uni25B6 BACTERIA, from page 16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY, JUNE 7, 2012 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG
“WEEK ONE on 
Saturday, I was out 
watching ‘Moneyball’ with a friend, and I couldn’t believe it — 
11:30 at night, I didn’t think anybody would order the first weekend, and I started getting phone calls. ‘I want four cookies. I live in Sixth College. ’ It was hilarious — I ran out of the movie theatre, ran home, put on the Superman suit.
“AGENT X”
Secret Cookie Service Founder 
Oct. 31, 2011
“The Spy Who Baked Me”
“COFF EE SHOPS  open 24-hours present a curi-
ous paradox: They’re perfect for the undergrad who needs to cram way past Geisel’s closing time, but they’re also perfect for another crowd: vagrants. This is precisely what makes hotspots like Lestat’s Coffee House and Filter Coffee House so appealing. The cof-fee at these caffeine-havens can win over drunks and laptop zombies alike, but the edge goes to Lestat’s in this matchup, where you can find amusing art work, hot baristas playing post-punk and an all-ages music venue (Lestat’s West) next door. ”
ARIELLE  SALLAI
Nov. 14, 2011
“Best Of Issue: Best Coffee”
“THE POR K SAND WICH ($9) is more of a burger, con-
sidering it’s stuffed with a ‘triple threat’ of pork (fried-and-battered pork loin, Applewood smoked bacon, and tender pulled pork), pickled relish and Shack aioli. While the juicy pork serves as an excellent repository for the shack’s special aioli, a mayo-corn-tomato-pep-per-cilantro mixture, the combination of the separate pork parts and other flavorful ingredients make the sandwich a bit too overpowering. As impossible as it sounds, there is just too much taste — and the poppy seed bun helplessly fails to embrace all these ingredi-ents. ”
ASHLEY K WON
Feb. 14, 2012
“Restaurant Review: Carnitas’ Snack Shack”THE YEAR IN 
“AND WHEN TEST DAY comes, the key is to stop second-
guessing yourself and think about something else. Under high-stress situations, especially athletic competitions, the working memory portion of the brain begins overthink-ing movements that are usually automatic. ”
ANGELA  CHEN
Oct.10, 2011
“Under Pressure”
“DAVID J. PETERSON  is good at what he does. /T_hat’s why 
the former UCSD graduate student beat out 40 other pro-fessionals to snag a highly coveted role in the production of HBO’s hit fantasy series, ‘/T_he Game of /T_hrones. ’ His job: to create a functional, legitimate language for the tribe of nomadic horse-lords called the Dothraki. ”
MARGARET Y AU
Jan. 23, 2012
“Words of Honor”
“THE QUESTION  presented by students who don’t see 
how a rally or reclamation can implement that change remains: Do these protests actually work?”
MINA N ILCHIAN
March 5, 2012
“State of the University”“ART IS THE LENS where we look 
at all these social issues of society there, like censorship, treatment of women, treatment of workers. And it’s not just society there in Dubai; it’s about modern society — how we have all this monetary capital that’s driving all this growth and 
how cultural capital — the artists that are critically examining these changes in society — isn’t being sup-ported except from the ground up by these artists. ”
KATY  CHANG
UCSD alumni
March 5, 2012
“Glitter Dust: /T_he Draw-cumentary”
“I THINK ONE OF the things that’s very diﬃcult for a 
lot of people is that they feel lost in big, impersonal places. If you grew up in a small town, or went to a small high school, and you come to a place like UCSD; it’s large and bureaucratic. /T_here are these strange traditions; there are these hierarchies of power. Harry Potter and this exhibit can teach you how to negotiate your way around a big, bureaucratic, impersonal institution. Where a chancellor can show up as magically as a Minister of Magic. ”
SETH LERER
Dean of UCSD Arts and Humanities
May 21, 2012
“InFocus: Harry Potter’s World”FOCUSFROM THE 
EDITORIAL BOARD
“IN THE DEBATE  on equal opportunity, our editorial board falls on the side of 
equal opportunity. We believe that leveling the playing field for disadvantaged students is crucial to extending a shot at higher education for greater numbers of students. But this is not to say that our board unequivocally backs SB 115. ”
OCT. 6, 2011
“Drafting Equality”
“AND AS MUCH F UN as nostalgia is, rides and cotton candy are more ‘Rock N 
Roosevelt’ than actual rager. Right now, there doesn’t appear to be much about Hullabaloo that is different from, say, the All-Campus Dance. ”
OCT. 13, 2011
“Much Hullabaloo About Nothing”
“OCCUPY COLLEGES  has strength in press, but now it is a matter of commit-
ment and endurance. This is an opportunity for anyone who has ever been slighted out of taking an overcrowded required course, stressed over crushing loans, or has boldly cried out, ‘I’m part of the 99 percent!’ Change is possible. ”
OCT. 20, 2011
 “Students, Assemble”
“WE ARE  an academic school, first and foremost, a moniker that has begun to 
seriously harm our reputation. It’s high time to make a change, to draw stu-dents in with promises of rockin’ beach parties, babes sunning on Black’s Beach and gnarly waves. That way, UCSD won’t be seen as the school that people go to when their other prospects are grim. ”
OCT. 27, 2011
“ A Shiny New Label”
“THE SOLUTION L IES in the hands of our student body. If students express 
interest in a referendum that would help fund Transportation Services, then there is the likely possibility that a few extra dollars out of our own pockets could keep the shuttles running and keep the MTS free. ”
NOV. 3, 2011
“ A Ticket to Ride”
“INVESTING IN  Division-I is an investment for the university holistically. The 
class that passes this referendum and begins paying is the class that suffers most because of the time it takes for our teams to become competitive in their new division. And there’s no doubt that now is not a good time to raise student fees — but there will never be a good time. ”
DEC . 1, 2011
“D-I Athletics: A Lasting Investment”
“THERE’S B EEN  a lot of talk about what’s ‘best’ for UCSD and how athletics 
play into the future of our institution. We can divide the controversy into two different camps: those who believe in a near future for Division-I sports and the benefits it could bring, and those who believe we have more immediate 
priorities. ”
MARCH 1, 2012
 “Keep the Change”
“WHAT’S WO RSE,  that same office 
notoriously belonged to our BFFs the Koala  before they were exiled 
to Price Center early this year (so thank Sun God we’re getting new carpet). Working in the same place could be seen as a slap in the face of our integrity, but the move pro-vides a fresh start we’re eager to make the most of (and the new furniture and repairs don’t hurt). ”
MARCH 15, 2012
“Moving Forward”
“YOU’VE P ROBABLY  seen the new 
solar-powered trash cans that look fresh out of the Star Wars droid sale. ”  
APRIL 19, 2012
“New Solar Powered Trash Cans are Sustainable Money Investment”
“I CAN TELL YOU  that if we shortchange the quality of education to our students, that we 
are shortchanging the very purpose as to why this university exists. I really want to focus on the quality of education, the quality of experience for undergraduate and graduate students. ”
PRADEEP KHOSLA
May 21, 2012
“Interview with Chancellor Designate Khosla”
“WHAT THE HELL do you mean it will only be called Conan 
O’Brien College for one day? I was under the impression this would be a permanent name change. Tomorrow it’s 
the Zac Efron Library. ’”
CONAN O’ BRIEN
April 23, 2012
“Conan O’Brien Comes to UCSD”
“THE WORLD belongs to humanity, and each country belongs 
to its own people — not religious leaders, or kings, or queens, 
or emperors, or political parties. ”
DALAI LAMA
April 19, 2012
“Dalai Lama Comes to UCSD”
“IF WE WANT CHANGE, we need to put our bodies on the line with 
the students and workers. It is time to disobey. If students are ar-
rested, we should be arrested. ”
LUIS M ARTÍN/hyphen.caseCABRERA
Associate Literature Professor
March 5, 2012
“Students Rally for Day of Action”
“CHANCELLO R KHOSLA.  Boy does that sound good. ”
MARYE A NNE FOX
May 21, 2012
“Khosla Makes First Oﬃcial Visit to UCSD”QUOT ES
NEWS
LEISURE
 ILLUSTRATIONS  BY JEFFREY  LAU/GUARDIANTHE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY, JUNE 7, 2012 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 7
“IF YOU DIDN ’T THINK 
So/f_tie ‘/T_he Notebook’ Gos-
ling could transform into a shotgun-toting, engine-rev-ving, head-stopping badass, you were dead wrong... And with gripping performances from all parties, and a near perfect score (Kavinsky’s excellent ‘Nightcall’ conjur -
ing images of leather inte-riors and purple neon-lit overpasses long a/f_ter you’ve le/f_t the theater), brains are simply better le/f_t splattered on Ryan Gosling’s boot heel. ”
REN EBEL
Jan. 12, 2012
“Drive”
“MY FAVORITE IS ‘PART Y -
ING WITH RUX!’ — a one-minute long, extremely psychedelic video star -
ring Teddy Ruxtin who mistakenly eats some roots in the forest and goes on a pseudo-drug journey. It is de/f_initely not for everyone. ‘Y ellow Dinosaur Pedophile Hunter’ seems to be the one that everyone enjoys.  Everyone agrees that pe-dophiles are bad and there should be a giant yellow dinosaur that hunts them down and punishes them. ”
NIC M AIER
Feb. 16, 2012
 “ All Dogs Go To Hell”
THE YEAR IN 
PERSONALITY  COLUMNS
“ONE W EEK IN , and I can already tell my 
first, and likely last, online dating account (on the popular website OkCupid) is the best possible version of myself. Y es, I chose a flattering photo. Y es, I refrained from includ-ing the sarcastic answers I personally find endearing, but are undeniably interpreted as bitchy to those that are not well versed in Grade-A Los Angeles sass. And yes, I did click the button that said I like dogs even though I don’t, in fact, like dogs. I can toler -
ate them. ”
LAIRA M ARTIN
THIS MODERN L OVE
Oct. 2, 2012
“Single White Female Seeks Atheist Big Spoon”
“IT’S BACK. It’s finally back. The cast and 
producers of ‘ Arrested Development’ are in talks with Showtime and Netflix about shooting and airing a short season of the cult-classic television show leading up to the release of a feature-length film. I very nearly blue myself in excitement. I’m sure some-where out there, Tobias did too. ”
MARGARET Y AU
JUMP ING THE S HARK
Oct. 6, 2011
“Color me Blue, Arrested Development Returns” 
“HERMAN C AIN’S 9-9-9 plan sounds like a 
pizza deal, not a means of economic recovery or deficit reduction. ”
SAAD A SAD
POLITICS A S USUAL
Oct. 13, 2011
 “Taxes: Spread the Wealth, Spread the Pain”
“I ALSO HAD  to remember that I wasn’t the 
only fan. At Comic-Con, it doesn’t matter how obscure your interests are — this isn’t an indie rock convention. I thought I liked the Guild — well, so did a thousand other people, all of whom seemed determined to date Felicia Day’s avatar. ”
MARGARET Y AU
FREE FOR  ALL
Oct. 20, 2011
“Set Y our Phasers to Stun: Free Swag at 
Comic-Con”
“THERE’S A REASON  I guard my iTunes 
like the Sorcerer’s Stone: I listen to a lot of embarrassing shit. As much as I’ d like to be seen as some kind of musical connois-seur, there are names in my library that can’t be denied. I have Ke$ha. Some Drake. Jamiroquai. The entire Britney Spears dis-cography. Several albums of “wizard rock. ” Worst of all, more Bruce Springsteen than anyone who isn’t my mother or from New Jersey should ever have. ”
ARIELLE  SALLAI
DODGING THE HORIZO N
Oct. 21, 2011
“Keep Y our Usher to Y ourself ”
“NICOLAS C AGE  operates within a distinc-
tive school of acting known as ‘Nouveau Shamanic, ’ which takes influence from pre-Christian actors who also served as town sha-mans, channeling cosmic guidance from their imaginations and another parallel dimension. Y es, of course Cage fucking invented it, which explains why he’s so good at it. ”
REN EBEL
BEER AND LO ATHING
Nov. 3. 2012
“Nicolas Cage and the Burden of Genius”
“FOR YEARS N OW I’ve been trying to con-
solidate my digital litter — fragmented into sites ranging from Gmail to Tumblr — into one place, hoping to unify my online pres-ence into a single collection so thorough that it might as well be the real me. It’s a frustrat-ing project, but I have one thing going for me: I’m still alive to do it. ”
ANGELA  CHEN
TALKING T O MACHINES
Nov. 28, 2011
 “When Y ou’re Dead to the World, Not to the 
Internet” 
“THE O UTSIDE WO RLD has already taken 
notice of the ground-breaking research that UCSD is doing — they may soon be rec-ognizing the university for the athletes its producing. ”
NICK HOWE
LEFT , CENTER, T ACKLE
Jan. 12, 2012
“UCSD Alumni Find Success After 
Graduation”“LIKE EV ERYONE EL SE, I like to be right 
— but in a sickening twist on this universal desire, I especially like to be right about my (many) pessimistic predictions. Thus, I felt both gleeful and grim upon discovering research supporting a comment I made years ago about how ‘Breakfast Club’ is a lie and my time at UCSD would not consist of con-necting with fascinating strangers. ”
ANGELA  CHEN
FIELD  NOTES
Jan. 23, 2012
“Science Explains Why Mixers Are Useless” 
“SO, LET’S GET a few things straight: I am 
not a food critic. I have no culinary training and can’t afford to even utter the words ‘fine dining. ’ Truth is, I’m just a broke college stu-dent who knows what she likes to eat. And to the girl whose heart is located directly in the pit of her stomach, a burrito is the epitome of a perfectly balanced comfort meal. ”
ALEXA ROCERO
THE OTHER WRAP
Feb. 14, 2012
“The Great Burrito Hunt Begins at Don 
Carlos”
“AS MUCH AS those of us in the humanities 
are mocked at UCSD, we’re also responsible for roughly 3 million pages of reading and writing each quarter. There is always another paper, another book — and, like anyone else raised on Gameboys and Pop Tarts, my attention span doesn’t carry me to the epi-logue. ”
TREVO R COX
AT WIT’S  END
Feb. 26, 2012
“ Against the Odds: Why I Don’t Use 
Adderall”
“DIVISION  I and the Big West may be a pipe 
dream for us, but there is one demographic for which there is no glass ceiling: UCSD coaches. More specifically, successful UCSD coaches. ”
RACHEL UDA
QUEEN O F KINGS
April 15, 2012
“UCSD: A Stepping Stone for College 
Coaches”
“PERSO NALL Y, I’m more interested in bat-
tling zombies. Their plague spreads by devouring people’s souls and eating brains. I would argue that virtual zombies deserve to die much more than virtual green pigs. ”
JONATHAN OK ERBLO M
HYPOTHESIS NOW
April 19, 2012
“Kill Zombies While Fending Off Type-II 
Diabetes”
“TUMBLR IS A great place for tidbits of wis-
dom that are inspirational, but useless: ‘If you’re tired of starting over, then stop giving up, ’ says a picture of a girl running on the beach, with a ridiculous amount of notes and reblogs. It’s a great looking quote for the ‘ About me’ section of your Facebook profile, but in terms of viable advice, it’ll end up being little more than fodder for the same part of your brain where you store the ‘Word of the Day’ and ‘Daily Buddhist Wisdom. ’”
MINA N ILCHIAN
STUDENT BO DY
May 14, 2012
“How to Live Up to Y our Inspirational 
Tumblr”
“I MAY NOT AGREE  with Palin’s view on 
mixed-sex marriage or her mother’s views on, well, anything. But she’s right — blindly attacking Palin for being a hypocrite is like criticizing a smoker turned lung cancer patient for talking about the dangers of smoking. Perhaps we were the hypocrites after all. ”
MARGARET Y AU
SPIN C YCLE
May 21, 2012
“Gay Rights, Hypocrites and Bristol Palin’s 
Big Mouth”
“HOW ARD S TERN  as a replacement?.... It’s 
mind boggling how a raunchy talk show host/fake author would have any sort of cre-dential in judging talent. ”
ISAAC LU
PEANUT BUTTER & J ELLY
May 31, 2012
“If America’s Got Stern, I’m Giving Up Hope”QUOT ESHIAT US
“HOLDING UP  a voice recorder, Jeﬀ (Jason Siegel) 
gazes out into the horizon and chronicles his inner philosophy. 
‘Y ou ever feel like you were waiting forever to /f_igure 
out what your destiny is?’ he says. 
Once he /f_inishes his monologue, he clicks oﬀ the 
old-fashioned tape recorder — and gets oﬀ the toilet. ”
RUSTEEN HO NARDOOST
March 15, 2012
“Jeﬀ, Who Lives at Home”“THIS MO MENT, which is rather risky in light of 
Azealia’s position as a quasi-mainstream artist, is a reaﬃrmation of the qualities that made her so intriguing in the /f_irst place: Banks is the kind of artist that is both exceptionally talented and unafraid to take risks. While it may be some time before she dethrones Missy Elliott, 1991 proves that Banks is one of the best rappers around today, regardless of gender. ”
ANDREW WHITWO RTH
May 31, 2012
“ Azealia Banks: 1991 EP”
“IT WASN’T meant to be. The ball 
wasn’t going to go in the back of their net. [Chico State] got one decent scoring opportunity and they took it. ”
BRIAN M CMANUS
Women’s Soccer Coach
Nov. 14, 2011
“Shut Out”
“WE KNOW that our best is better 
than everyone else’s best. ”
ANNIE WETHE
Senior Captain, Women’s Soccer
Nov. 10, 2011
“NCAA West Regionals Preview”
“IT’S BEEN THE most amazing ride 
I’ve ever been on in my life and it’sbeen a whole lot of fun, and it’s going to be hard waking up in themorning realizing that we don’t get to practice. ”
CHARITY ELLIO TT
Women’s Basketball Coach
March 15, 2012
“End of the Road”
“THERE W ERE TIMES [this season] 
where I wouldn’t imagine we’ d be here. [Our players] were fighters, and I’m so proud of them. We lost to the No. 1 team in the country, they were good, and they deserved to win thisg a m e .”
PATTI  GERCK ENS
Women’s Softball Coach
May 20, 2012
“Out in the End”
“YOU CAN SEE signs that we’re get-
ting better, we’re keeping ourselves in it. ”
KEVIN RING
Men’s Volleyball Coach,
April 16, 2012
“Blocked Out”SPOR TS
JUNE 22 – In a move that will make 
history, Pixar is releasing its /f_irst /f_ilm 
that features a female protagonist this summer. “Brave, ” fronted by feisty ginger tomboy Merida, is set in the Scottish highlands during the Middle Ages. And Merida will clearly be the centerpiece of Pixar’s latest 3-D masterpiece — a/f_ter all, the movie’s teaser poster is mostly dominated by a huge shock of red hair.     /T_he story follows the format of a traditional fairy tale. Merida 
shuns her society’s expectations of her eventual transformation into a “lady. ” She has no intention of becoming a princess; instead, she takes pride in her ability 
to /f_ight and shoot arrows, making 
her the veritable Katniss Everdeen of dystopic olde-timey Scotland. A little magic in the form of a “wise woman” dooms her family and the kingdom, and it’s up to Merida to save the day.     Pixar is sure to deliver a/f_ter its most recent /f_lop, “Cars 2. ” /T_he cast features “Harry Potter” favorites Emma /T_hompson and Robbie Coltrane. And if that isn’t enough to pique your interest, the delightful, Oscar-nominated animated short “La Luna” precedes the /f_ilm. 
— Margaret Yau
 
MANAGING  EDITORREN EBEL
hiatus @ucsdguardian.orgCONTACT THE EDITOR
arts&entertainmentTHE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY, JUNE 7, 2012 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 9
JUNE 22 – For 
Woody Allen devotees and skeptics alike, “Midnight In Paris” was last year’s 
most delightful comedy, and the biggest hit of the proli/f_ic director’s career. No doubt cashing in on its success, Allen will follow up that travelogue comedy with yet another travelogue comedy — only this time he’s trading France for Italy. Initially titled “ /T_he Bop Decameron, ” before 
being changed to “Nero Fiddled” and, /f_inally, “To Rome With Love, ” the /f_lick is a broad comedy (not a romantic comedy, according to Allen) composed of four interwoven tales, one of which stars the director himself — on screen for the /f_irst time since 2006’s “Scoop. ”     Since he’s now too old to play the romantic lead himself, the real Woody will be played by Jesse Eisenberg, the obvious successor to his brand of neurotic comedy. /T_he /f_ilm will also star Allen alums Alec Baldwin, Judy Davis and Penelope Cruz (who won an Academy Award in his 2008 romcom “Vicky Cristina Barcelona”) and newcomers Greta Gerwig and Ellen Page (who incidentally looks a lot like Allen 
mainstay Jessica Harper). /T_hough the actual plot remains a mystery — much like the plot of “Midnight In Paris” was before its release — there’s no one in cinema quite as dependable as Woody, 
leading us to believe that “Rome” will be yet another hit for the director, bolstered by a /f_lawless reputation and an intriguing cast.
— Arielle Sallai
 
MANAGING  EDITORSummer Preview
To Rome With Love
PrometheusBeast Of  The Southern WildBraveJULY 3 – Say what you will about 
the “premature” reboot — “/T_he Amazing Spider-Man” will be, as its name suggests — amazing. Andrew Gar/f_ield (“/T_he Social Network”) replaces vanilla Tobey McGuire in the legendary role of Peter Parker. /T_his time, the /f_ilm will focus on Parker’s development in high school as he tries to discover the truth behind his parents’ disappearance. And the main love interest isn’t feisty-but-not-the-way-Kristen-Dunst-played-her MaryJane Watson — it’s the little known Gwen Stacey, played by Emma Stone (“Easy A, ” “Zombieland”).     What is most exciting about this movie isn’t the fresh, beautiful cast. It’s Andrew Gar/f_ield’s self-proclaimed fanboy excitement about the role. When the /f_ilm was teased at Comic Con last year, a fan in a Spider-Man suit walked up expressing his excitement about the movie before removing his mask to reveal that he was, in fact, Andrew Gar/f_ield himself. In several interviews, Gar/f_ield has told anecdotes about reciting the original Spider-Man’s monologues into a mirror when he was younger, only to have friends tell him that he could never be Spider-Man. /T_hey must be eating their words now.     /T_here are so many rebooted changes from the original franchise that have been slowly released since this past summer — all have been rehashed over and over on blogs everywhere. But one thing is certain — “/T_he Amazing Spider-Man” is a fanboy movie, made by fanboys for fanboys. Hopefully, they leave the emo-Spidey suit back in “Spider-Man 3, ” where it belongs.
— Margaret Yau
 
MANAGING  EDITOR
The Amazing Spider-Man
JULY 20 – /T_here’s something 
poetic about the timing of “/T_he Dark Knight Rises”— while America’s economy spirals downward to depressing lows, on screen, director Christopher Nolan’s wealthy antihero emerges from an eight-year absence to save a bedraggled Gotham City from a juggernaut. It’s diﬃcult to ignore the real-life parallels — and though the boilerplate aspects of an action-driven, explosive blockbuster are there, the /f_inal installment of the Batman trilogy also promises to address all those uncomfortable Marxist issues you’ve been sitting on.      Proof positive: Stoic and hoarse, Bale’s Batman — now with two successful installments and an Oscar under his utility belt — canoodles with a slinky Selina Kyle (Ann Hathaway) at a party, while her rose-red lips inform him that the downfall of Gotham’s upper class is imminent. Hated by them but beloved by us, Batman’s ongoing struggle as the (/f_ilthy rich) underdog somehow continues to resonate with the (dirt poor) American audiences. It’s nothing short of “Inception” on Nolan’s part, who managed to turn away from historically campy representations of heroism to a dark, gritty and bloody adaptation that Americans identify with in times of crisis. And if that won’t bring in crowds — then luckily, Hathaway’s catsuit will. /uni00A0/uni00A0
— Neda Salamat
 
SENIOR  STAFF  WRITERThe Dark Knight Rises
JUNE 8 –  A/f_ter working hard to 
disassociate himself from his sci-/f_i roots, Ridley Scott returns this summer to his old stomping ground. “Prometheus, ” originally developed as a /f_i/f_th entry in the “ Alien” franchise, retells the favorite fable of the origin of mankind: that humans were put on Earth by aliens. Before it was cast aside in favor of “ Alien vs. Predator, ” Scott was working with James Cameron, developing a prequel, set before the start of “ Alien. ” Since its reboot, though, the screenplay has been rewritten to exist as a stand-alone /f_ilm — but don’t worry, from the looks of it, there will still be plenty of face-gnawing extraterrestrials.     When it was shelved back in 2003, it seems Cameron just couldn’t let go of his grand sci-/f_i vision, and so Avatar was put into production. And in keeping with any /f_ilm James Cameron has touched, the scale of “Prometheus” seems just as gigantic. Ridley Scott himself isn’t known for his small-scale visions either (think of the world he created in “Blade Runner”), and with a budget of over $120 million, “Prometheus” will be anything but unimpressive. It doesn’t look like it’ll have quite the emotional he/f_t of “Blade Runner or the slow-building tension of “ Alien, ” but if it’s a 
summer spectacle you’re looking for, 
“Prometheus” likely won’t disappoint.
— Alex Reed
 
STAFF  WRITER
JUNE 27  - In the spirit of legend-
ary Italian Neorealists Rosellini and 
De Sica, newcomer writer/director Benh Zeitlin gathered a cast of rugged non-actors and a humble budget, and set off to break every rule in the indie filmmaking handbook. 
“When I was in college I was told 
that if you’re going to make movies don’t shoot on the water, don’t shoot with children and don’t shoot with animals, ” Zeitlin said in an interview for this year’s Sundance Film Festival. “Our movie is about children and ani-mals on boats. ”
But “Beasts of the Southern Wild” 
is no desolate true-to-life melo-drama. The plot follows a young girl, Hushpuppy, who lives with her father and community members in a flood-ed southern town called the Bathtub. After a series of apocalyptic events begins to ravage the town, Hushpuppy turns to her father, a mysterious beastly magic and her own intuition to search for her mother. 
“Beasts” made the festival 
rounds this year, taking home the coveted first prize in the Dramatic 
Competition at Sundance, and the 
Camera d’Or prize at Cannes. If the goosebump-inducing trailer is any indication, “Beasts of the Southern Wild” will be a welcome addition to this year’s gorgeous childhood fan-tasy/adventure trend launched by Wes Anderson this week. 
— Ren Ebel
 
HIATUS  EDITOR
ucsdguardian.org
Preview
Preview
HIATUS
Usher memorably melted 
hearts with 1998’s “Nice and Slow, ” a song that 
positioned the singer as a soulful seducer. His almost 20-year career continues with the June 12 release of his seventh studio album, Looking 4 Myself.
Usher draws from the electronic 
sounds of the international dance scene, while staying true to his R&B background on the new album that Billboard described as “a fusion of electro-soul, old-school R&B and modern club anthems. ” /T_he Diplo-produced 
“Climax, ” as the album’s lead single, combines Usher’s R&B roots with electronic in/f_luences, keeping him a top contender for radio play against the newer, electronic and dance-infused competition. /T_he album also features collaborations from producers Swedish House Ma/f_ia on “Euphoria. ” /uni00A0Usher’s performance on the May 12 episode of “Saturday Night Live” showed that he is still among the strongest performers in popular music — the 33-year-old singer isn’t slowing down anytime soon.
— Nicole Chan
 
ASSOCIATE  NEWS EDITORTwin Shadow’s 2010 debut 
Forget  garnered George 
Lewis Jr. ’s solo venture a cult 
following worthy of its neo-retro-spective take on the current trend of bedroom pop music. /uni00A0Lewis’s strikingly mysterious persona and Chris Taylor of Grizzly Bear’s unorthodox production style made for a unique combo of classic shim-mery guitars and sparse analog electronics. /uni00A0As instantly pleasing as Forget  was, it appeared likely to 
remain a shot in the dark as the project’s creative peak. /uni00A0
Set for a mid-summer July 
release date, Confess  undoubtedly 
will mark a notable departure for Lewis and his newly accrued rep-ertoire. /uni00A0The record’s first single, “Five Seconds” indicates a transi-tion from insular electro-rock to full-fledged power ballad status. /uni00A0As a symptom of the band’s newfound strength as a vivacious live act, the track boasts prominent 80s guitar riffage, glossy synthesizers and heavy organic drums. /uni00A0
Twin Shadow seems prepped to 
shove a serious dose of fleshed-out new wave nostalgia in the face of their listeners, and Lewis and crew may be the most viable candidates for delivering on such a road-worn stereotype with the utmost sincerity. Just as they avoided jabs of unoriginality on their inau-gural attempt, Confess  may very well solidify them as the classiest amongst a current generation of 80s appropriation. 
— Taylor Hogshead
STAFF  WRITERLooking 4 Myself - Usher
June 15 July 10Confess - Twin Shadow
10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY, JUNE 7, 2012 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG
Bring this ad for one FREE ride on
SuperLoop; good through the end of June!On June 10, new SuperLoop service begins 
in communities east of Genesee Avenue.
Route 204 provides fast and frequent
bus service to UTC, UCSD, and University City.  
www.sdmts.comVisit www.sandag.org/SuperLoop805
5University City
UTC Transit Ctr
30 101
41105 960
Weekends only:31 50
150 880VA
MedicalCenter
The Shops
at La Jolla
Village
La JollaVillageSquareUCSDMedical CenterThorton HospitalShileyEyeCenterScripps MemorialHospital La Jolla
Gilman/
Villa La Jolla
150201
201
201201
202202202202202202
202
204204
204
204
204204201201
201
UCSD
School ofMedicinePriceCenterGeiselLibrary Preuss SchoolUCSD Charter
DoyleCommunityParkMesaHousingArea
ColonyPlazaCostaVerdeBraille
InstituteLa Jolla
Country DaySchool
Mandell WeissEastgate CityPark
NobelAthletic Area& LibraryUCSDMedical CenterThorton Hospital
Route 201/202
Route 204Bus StopTransfer point
Map no to scale
                  6/12NGolden Haven    Dr Regents Park Row41101 30
921 150UCSDVoigt Dr
Health  Scien ces DrMedical
Center Dr N
Executive    DrGenesee Av
Research PlJudicial Dr
Shoreline Dr
Nobel DrRenaissance Av  Executive   W
yRegents RdEastgate Mall
 Nobel Dr
Costa Verde Bl
Genesee AvNobel Dr
Lebon Dr
Regents Rd
Palmilla Dr
Cargill Av
Arriba St   Villa La Jolla DrGilman Dr
Gilman DrVilla La Jolla DrLibrary WalkVoigt Dr 
My
ers DrGilman DrMedical
Center DrGenesee AvTowne Center Dr
Towne Center Dr
Judicial Dr
     La Jolla  Villag e DrLa Jolla  Village Dr
Villa Mallorca201 • 202 • 204
NEW!
Route
204
Over twelve years and four 
albums, London quintet Hot Chip have established 
themselves as one of the most reliable, innovative synth pop bands currently operating. From the cheesy bedroom 
funk of 2004’s Coming on Strong to 
One Life Stand ’s soft rock pastiches, 
Hot Chip have successfully explored diverse genres, all the while forging a very unique style, one that combines a youthful sense of experimentation with the restraint of far more experienced musicians. 
The band’s next album (and first on an indie label since their debut), In Our Heads, promises to be some 
of the band’s best work yet. “Night and Day, ” the record’s first single, is a gleeful house anthem that sports a deliciously funky bassline and some of Hot Chip’s most forward lyrics to date: “the way I feel about you baby, in the middle of the night, there’s just one thing I could do to feel alright, ” sneers vocalist Alexis Taylor, “if I could be inside you darling...let’s sweat. ” Elsewhere, the band indulges in tasteful vocal sampling (“These Chains”), classic techno synth lines (“Flutes”) and the kind of smooth acoustic guitar playing that would sound perfectly at home on a Red Hot Chili Peppers album. As a whole, the album is very strong, representing some of the most skillful songwriting and careful production in recent memory.
— Andrew Whitworth
 
ASSOCIATE  HIATUS  EDITOR
You may not know Audacity yet, but they’re this summer’s band to watch. Although 
this Fullerton-based band has cycled through name and lineup changes over the years, their roots can be traced to the fond days of second grade recess. The band members grew up together in a city rife with music history — from 80s punk to the pop-punk leanings of the 90s — blossoming at the perfect moment: the birth of Orange County’s fledg-ling surf-rock scene.
Just at the time Burger Records 
— a Fullerton record store that spe-cializes in producing hand-crafted cassette tapes — found its local footing, Audacity jumped on board, releasing Power Drowning  on the 
label in 2009. 
Now, three years have passed; the 
boys are out of high school, they’ve been touring like mad and they’ve built up enough material to release their second LP . Mellow Cruisers ’ 
first released track, “Garza Girls, ” was inspired by the females that work at Garza Industries, a place guitarist Matt Schmalfeld delivers business cards to during his day job. It’s poppy, rife with guitar jangle and a deliriously catchy hook worthy of any summer soirée. 
— Amanda Martinek
SENIOR  STAFF  WRITERDavid Longstreth, the pri-mary songwriter and composer behind Dirty 
Projectors, has slowly become one of indie rock’s most progressive voices. The band’s most recent album, the magnificent Bitte Orca, was one of 
those rare albums that manages to be both innovative and completely accessible (the album’s first single, the stomping R’n’B epic “Stillness is the Move” is particularly noteworthy in this respect). Across the band’s extensive catalog — they’ve released eight full length albums and several miscellaneous releases, like the for-charity Björk compilation Mount Wittenberg Orca — they’ve been remarkably consistent, exploring everything from sinuous classi-cal avant-pop (2005’s The Getty Address ) to punk-inspired afro-
rock (2007’s Black Flag-covering Rise Above ). 
If early single “Gun Has No 
Trigger” is any indication, this summer’s Swing Lo Magellan  will 
be just as remarkable: that single combines clever guitar work and a slo-mo motorik pulse with the kind of trademark vocal arranging that the group mastered on Bitte Orca . Get excited, because Swing Lo 
Magellan  might just end up being one of this summer’s best albums.
— Andrew Whitworth
 
ASSOCIATE  HIATUS  EDITOR
After 15 years as arguably the best rapper alive, Nas is rich, confident and happy 
as ever. On Life Is Good , his 10th 
solo studio album, he seems intent on making sure you know just how great being Nasir Jones is. On “Nasty” , the album’s first single, he raps “I come from the will of Ezekiel/ to pop thousand dollar bottles of scotch/ smoke pot/ and heal the people. ” The videos for “Nasty” and second single “The Don, ” are comprised mostly of shots of Nas getting chauffeured in Rolls Royces, smoking expensive cigars and wearing finely tailored suits. 
But even though his opulent 
lifestyle sounds soft, Nas is as lyri-cally sharp as ever. His lines have always been complex and quick, full of internal rhymes and subtle word-play, and if these two singles are any indication, Life Is Good  
will be another lyrical clinic. On “Nasty, ” he growls, “ Any rebuttal to what I utter get box-cuttered/ Count how many bad honeys I slut its a high number/ Name another nigga under the same sky that I’m under. ” 
Nas’s legendary lyricism alone 
makes any new release of his worth buying. But if you need another reason to pick up Life is Good , 
Jay Electronica has confirmed a guest appearance, and Odd Future members Tyler, the Creator, Hodgy Beats and Frank Ocean are all reported to be recording with Nas. If nothing else, just buy the album to hear these youngsters get edu-cated by one of the greatest to ever pick up a mic.
        — Sebastian Brady 
STAFF  WRITERIn Our Heads - Hop Chip
Mellow Cruisers - AudacitySwing Lo Magellan - Dirth Projectors
Life is Good - NasJune 12
July 10July 10
July 17
THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY, JUNE 7, 2012 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 11
Congratulations
to the Winners of the 2012
Undergraduate Library Research Prize!
Life Sciences/Physical Sciences Category 
First Prize: Lisa Krayer, Muir College
“Nano Scale Refrigeration of Cosmological Telescopes.”
Nominated by Professor Brian Keating.
Second Prize: Young Jin Kim, Eleanor Roosevelt College
“Methods to Synthesize Luminescent Materials.”
Nominated by Professor Joanna McKittrick.
Social Sciences/Arts/Humanities Category 
First Prize: Toyli Hojaguliyev, Sixth College
“Does Responsibility to Protect (R2P) Help to Deter
Occurrence of Conflicts?”
Nominated by Professor Philip Roeder.
Second Prize: Lauren Smyle, Warren College
“BIDs Compensating for the Elimination of Redevelopment.”
Nominated by Professor Keith Pezzoli.
The ULRP award is co-sponsored by the UC San Diego Libraries,
the Vice Chancellor of Student Affairs, and UC San Diego Alumni
Association. The Research Prize is offered to undergraduate students 
who have strategically and effectively used UCSD library resources
in direct support of research undertaken on campus.
price center west
sun god lounge 
sun-thurs • ‘til 2am
 price center east
levels 1 & 2 
including ballroom east sun-thurs • open 24 hrs fri • ‘til 2:30am 
student center
treehouse computer lab & fireside lounge sun-thurs • ‘til 2amlate night study hours
looking for a fresh place to study with 
electrical outlets, good light, and more? check out our new hours and locations!
De-Stress
Fest
MARCH 11-15
universitycenters.ucsd.edu • 858.822.2068THERAPY FLUFFIES 
presented by THE ZONE
Tuesday, 6.12 • 10am-2pm
Library Walk, FREELATE BREAK AT  THE GAMEROOM
1/2 Price Pool & Ping Pong
All Week  • 6pm - Midnight
Gameroom • Price Center West, L2MASSAGE MANIA 
Monday, 6.11 • 10am-4pm
PC Ballroom West A, L2, FREEBAGELS & BLUEBOOKS 
Wednesday, 6.13 • 9am-11am
Library Walk,  FREEzzz
DeStressGuardian_VFNL.indd   1 5/23/12   12:53 PM
ucsdguardian.orgmore content...
get informed...new, bold look!
visit
more content... new, bold look!
ucsdguardian.org
more content...
new, bold look!
more
content...ucsdguardian.org
bold, new
look!ucsdguardian.org12 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY, JUNE 7, 2012 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG
MASTERS DEGREE IN  
INTERIOR ARCHITECTURE
CERTIFICATE IN INTERIOR DESIGN
For details call (310) 825-9061,  
or visit uclaextension.edu/Guard_MIA12
!"""#$!%
13336.indd   2 4/26/12   10:59 AMUCSD Students Faculty & Staff
FREE  Moving T ruck
      and Free Rent!A Triton
Tradition
San Diego Self Storage wants to recognize the most 
deserving student by offering free summer storage. Please go to our facebook for more information.
www.facebook.com/SelfStorageSanDiego
It’s been seven years since we 
heard anything new from Fiona Apple, the queen of angsty, 
female singer-songwriters, known for her mood swings, classical piano and sultry, one-of-a-kind voice that launched her career back in the mid 90s. Her first new album since 2005 is set for release on June 19, complete with an extremely long and unconventional title (harkening back to her sophomore LP , whose epic title hit the 90 word mark), The Idler Wheel Is Wiser Than The Driver Of The Screw And Whipping Cords Will Serve Y ou More Than Ropes Will Ever Do.
If you’re a cult follower, or just 
looking for a deeper, more lyrically complex version of Florence and the Machine or Adele, do yourself a favor and check out the long awaited return of this co-founder of the modern alternative singer/song-writer genre. “Every Single Night, ” the first single from the new LP , is a bit more whimsical than the brood-ing, multi-instrumental ballads we are used to, but it delivers the same unbridled creativity and poignant relatability that only Apple could provide. The Tidal Wave... will arrive just in time to be the soundtrack for some of the darker, more introspec-tive days of your summer. 
   — Michelle Kim
     
CONTRIBUTING  WRITER
It’s been nearly three years since the behemoth Merriweather Post Pavilion, but Animal 
Collective is finally set to return this summer with their anticipated ninth studio album, Centipede Hz. /uni00A0During their hiatus, the band has been hard at work transform-ing their sound and style with a flurry of highly experimental and lucrative solo projects — from Avey Tare’s trippy 2010 release Down There, to Panda Bear’s triumphant Tomboy just last year. /uni00A0
In a 2011 interview with the 
Baltimore Sun, Avey Tare stated that the band wanted a “more immediate, hard-hitting set with more rhythm” on their next release. With the band now back to a four piece (founding member Deakin returned this year), and Panda Bear back behind a full drum kit (some-thing fans have longed for since Here Comes the Indian), Centipede Hz is sure to give us the most organic, energetic and physical Animal Collective record yet. /uni00A0
The rumored concept behind 
Centipede Hz consists of an alien band from another planet sampling sounds from Earth — reversing the psychedelia cliché of a human band attempting to recreate interstellar sounds. The band recently released pre-album single “Honeycomb” to give fans a taste of their new aesthetic — a thumping mix of pitch-shifting percussion and one of the catchiest Animal Collective choruses since Feel’s “Grass. ” 
   — Tanner Cook
     
CONTRIBUTING  WRITERTy Segall does not stop. In collaboration with sev-eral OC and SF bands, he’s 
already worked on a dozen albums, as well as four excellent solo records since 2008. Earlier this year, Segall released Hair, a collaboration with White Fence, and he plans to release another solo album in the fall, begging the question: When does this guy sleep?
Slaughterhouse is the first album 
under the moniker Ty Segall Band, Segall’s full touring band, which includes his former University of San Francisco classmate Emily Rose Epstein on drums, Charlie Moothart of the Moonhearts and Mikal Cronin, SF native, solo artist and long-time Ty collaborator.
From the name alone, it’s clear 
that Slaughterhouse will be harder and louder than the previous pysch-pop/garage rock endeavors Segall is usually associated with. If the pre-release track “I Bought My Eyes” is any indication, recording with friends who are usually only present in live settings has amped the volume, fuzzed out the riffs and left any semblance of restraint at the door. 
— Amanda Martinek
SENIOR  STAFF  WRITER“The Idler Wheel... - Fiona Apple Centipede Hz - Animal 
Collective
Slaughterhouse - Ty Segall BandJune 19
September 4
June 26
THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY, JUNE 7, 2012 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 13
MONDA Y , JUNE 11
FREE Food, Drinks, Music, Games & Prizes!Friday, June 8, 2-6pm RIMAC FieldPRESENTS
ASCE.UCSD.EDUChurros
El TigreHonest TeaDelicioso
Catering
Food TruckKettle
Masters 
Kettle Korn RELAX • CONNECT
CAFFEINATE • REPEAT
FREE Food, Drinks, Music, Games & Prizes!
Friday, June 8, 2-6pm RIMAC Field
PRESENTS
ASCE.UCSD.EDU
ASCE.UCSD.EDU
ASCE.UCSD.EDU
Churros
El Tigre
Honest Tea
Delicioso
Catering
Food Truck
Kettle
Masters 
Kettle Korn
 RELAX • CONNECT
CAFFEINATE • REPEAT
4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY, JUNE 7, 2012 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG
NIKKI CHAN ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITOR • STAFF WRITERSENIOR
I’ve been in denial that I’m 
graduating soon. I wonder if I’m where my wide-eyed freshman self wanted to be. I 
feel like I’ve gained a lot of confi-dence this year alone, but I’m still mistaken for being 19 when I’m turning 22 next week, and I’m not quite sure what the future holds for me. 
We’ve all questioned if UCSD 
was the right choice for us — sure, the campus gets a bad reputation as being ‘socially dead, ’ but college is really what you make of it. UCSD was the right choice for me — I’ve met so many great people and I feel like I’ve really come into my own here.   
It’s hard for me to believe that 
I’m in my last week as an undergrad and soon my life won’t involve daily trips to PC, meandering through the bookstore and staying ten hours every Wednesday and Sunday to make sure the news is delivered to the student body. I admit that I worried more about making sure we had enough content than studying for midterms.
My favorite part of college was 
definitely the last two years, and it wasn’t until my junior year that I joined the Guardian as a news writer and found a new way to learn about the campus and interact with people I’ d never know otherwise. Thanks to everyone who made this an incredible last year of college, and especially to the Guardian staff for being a great team to work with.    
To Zev: Thanks for being such a 
great associate. Sometimes I forget that you’re only a freshman. The section is in great hands with you at its helm. NEWS! *high five*
To Angela: Thank you for every-
thing. I really learned this year how tough working in news can be, and I wouldn’t have rebounded without your guidance and your faith in me.
To Margaret: Thanks for always 
helping us out. I’m definitely going to miss your sass. Smang it gurl.
To Rachel: Aaliyah forever.To Rebecca: Horwitz and Hurwitz will be unstoppable! Cool cool cool.
To Laira: Hunnids, hunnids.To Arielle: Thank you for always 
making news look so awesome. Y ou’re so talented, and I love that you know how to tap dance.
To Daniel: I’m so glad to have 
met you this year. Y ou’ve got a really good heart.
To the rest of the editors and 
staff: Thank you all for being so much fun to work with. Most of you are younger than me, and I always took inspiration in how mature, dedicated, talented and ambitious you guys are. 
To my roomies: I love you guys. To my Ascension 10-11 family: 
Joining Ascension was one of the best decisions I made at UCSD. I miss you guys all the time.
To my bookstore crew: Y ou guys 
are cool. I never have to work at 115 again!
To Cathy: What am I going to do 
without you in my life? I miss you already. SENDOFFS { {
TREVOR COX MANAGING EDITOR • OPINION EDITOR • COLUMNISTThis wouldn’t be a real Guardian  goodbye if 
it weren’t deliriously scrawled at the Treehouse 
Lounge. I’ve had 32 ounces of luke-warm coffee, two Domino’s pizzas, and one (1) bag of Doritos. There are a few hours until the paper goes to print, and a few minutes until my phone buzzes with that first check-in from an editor — one not unlike the kind I used to send, but nicer, probably, and less riddled with pas-sive aggression. 
I’ve never been able to say good-
bye. There’s so much expectation for wisdom and poignancy  — for words that explode with truth, that suspend an editor’s instinct to blud-geon and rearrange with red ink, and that make everyone pause to say: Fuck. He’s right. (We’re not A.S. 
Council; there will be no finger-snapping in the reading of these farewells).
I don’t know what I can say. I 
don’t have words to move moun-tains, nor my favorite editor, who has never ever cried (except for that one time she had shingles). 
What I can tell you is that I’ve 
never felt the same sense of belong-ing or purpose or frustration or anxiety that this paper has made me feel. When it’s good, it rains Miller High Life and letters to the editor; when it’s bad, there are tears and sweat and vomit and, invariably, carne asada fries.  
And now, without further mop-
ing, the only reason to read on: shout-outs.
Alyssa: Y ou taught me early on 
that a campus planning story is no place for a “Gossip Girl” refer -
ence, and you never made me stop twinking the page, no matter how close we were to sunrise. I owe you at least another year’s worth of Red Bull. 
Simone: I’ll probably never work 
for someone whose vision I respect as much as I do yours. More impor -
tantly, I will definitely never work for someone as capable/tireless a dance partner. 
Kelsey: I still don’t know how 
you’re such a ray of sunshine. One day, we will jazzercise.  
Neda: NEDA!!! Y ou’re right. I 
do hate cats. But I love you, and if it weren’t already a given, I’m keep-ing you on call for the rest of our adult lives for impromptu front-seat dance party. 
Hayley: I have something impor -
tant to tell you, Hayley Martin. I accept your proposal on one non-negotiable condition: lasagna and peppermint bark. Which is two conditions, really, but they are both important ones. Also, hi, I love you. 
Angela: I’m always amazed by 
you. And really: when you run the world, please do remember the little gingers who knew you way back when. I’m grasping for the right Robyn lyric, but I can confidently say: Y ou ‘n’ me together, Trangie C. 4-ever. 
Arielle: From the combina-
tion Pizza Hut ‘n’ Taco Bell to Whisknladle. I couldn’t be prouder of us. See you in the Bay. 
Y elena: Oh, Nana, I can’t count 
all the ways I love you. Was there ever a little spoon so perfectly sized to my boney torso? Was there ever a suga bitch so sweet, and yet so ice-cold? The answer, obviously, is no. I love you like my own child. 
Thanks for everything, 
Guardian. It was a sweet dream and 
a beautiful nightmare. 
ROBERT  ASAMI /GUARDIAN
ANDREW  OH/GUARDIANTHE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY, JUNE 7, 2012 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 5
HAYLEY  
BISCEGLIA-MARTIN DEVELOPMENT EDITOR • MANAGING EDITOR • NEWS EDITOR
Alright, Guardian, I forgive you.
I forgive you for the 
22-hour work days, for the red-
bull-and-Plaza-chicken-wings 
diets, for two years of one-day weekends, and for stories that fell through at 4 p.m. on a Wednesday. I forgive you for Scylla and Charybdis, for Hayley Martin, and for the move to Google Docs. I even forgive you for Ronald Reagan. 
Because even when I look back at the 
worst you had to throw at me, I still can’t regret a single thing. The Guardian intro-duced me to the most fascinating people, and taught me to write about them. A sink-or-swim ascendency to News Editor (where, admittedly, I did sink for a bit) taught me to kick ass and take names (and colleges, and school years), and occasion-ally apologize when the ass I kicked was the wrong one. This paper has made me more capable in ways that nothing else ever has.
So much credit goes to the girl who 
was by my side for all this. Angela, light of my life. Kaiser of my heart. Official biogra-pher. We have been through a baptism by fire and the Strait of Messina besides, and come out stronger than any newspaper duo has the right to be. I fully expect you to rule the world someday. I adore you.
To my girls: Thank you for sticking 
with me all these years (especially sopho-more and junior year, where 20-hour work days twice a week made me Not Very Much Fun to be around). Thank you for listening to my ranting, giving me quotes when I needed “student input, ” and even occasionally reading the paper. None of this would have been possible without your unflagging, if somewhat exasperated, support.
And though the people who brought 
me to the Guardian have been gone for quite some time now, that doesn’t change the fact that they had more to do with who I am today than the best professors this school has to offer. Thank you guys, truly, for everything.
Emku, you will always be my space 
fairy. Neda, Trevor: My ginger brigade. Can we just marry each other already? It would make Sunday morning Farmer’s Market trips so much more convenient. Arielle, Margaret: I’m glad the paper is in your hands, and I am so unspeakably proud of what it is becoming with you to guide it. 
All the other beautiful baby Guardians, 
it has been a privilege to get to know such talented people, even if most of what I did this quarter was sit around the office while you were all trying to be productive and say things like “Did you know Andrew Garfield and Emma Stone are dating now?” Which I realize in retrospect may not have been helpful. If I had the word count, I would thank you all for a mil-lion pages (but one special mention goes to Ren: We survived a kangaroo attack together; now I know we can do anything).
And now, the Chilean Sea Bass-
Protector and award winner of “Most Comforting Bosoms” is hitting the road. Peace, my friends. We’ll always have Anza Borrego.
ANDREW OH/GUARDIAN8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY, JUNE 7, 2012 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG
I should begin by explaining the 
photograph. This is a photo-graph of my final art project as a UCSD undergrad. As a VIS 
major, I have been asked to conceive the unimaginable and believe in the incredible. The prompt for this final project was “ Apocalypse. ” Most envi-sion “ Apocalypse” to be the end of the world with zombies, aliens, and the obliteration of the human race, but my interpretation is a personal apoca-lypse, the end of a phase in my life.
So this project marks the apoca-
lypse of my academic career at UCSD.
The three years of college have been an insane whirlwind for me, and I am so proud and somewhat pained to say that The Guardian has been the center of it all. Being part of this orga-nization—and family—has caused some heartache, but I have loved and learned so much that it has made it more than worthwhile. I think it takes a certain kind of masochist to work in journalism, and I respect all the stu-dents that work so hard to publish this newspaper twice a week.
I read in a book once that life 
takes a little time and a lot of relation-ships. Sure, I’ve learned how to use Photoshop and craft a near-perfect resume. That’s all important; however, I’ve also learned how to help create a habitable and inviting environment for not only my co-workers but all the people in my life. I’m still far from perfect—and I’ll never be—but I am getting better at it. And I can say that The Guardian was my first real crash course in being human.
In high school, I adhered to Virgil’s 
words “Fortune favors the bold. ” To some extent, I still believe that, but now I also know that you can’t hurry Fortune. So I guess Steinbeck would be a little more appropriate now: “Don’t worry about losing. If it is right, it happens—the main thing is not to hurry. Nothing good gets away. ” It’s frustrating to wait on circum-stance and most times people, but I’ve learned that if you work long and hard enough towards a goal and encourage those around you to work just as hard, things begin to change drastically.
So I want to thank Regina and 
Emily for supporting me through my many Guardian endeavors and always offering sound advice. Thank you to Trevor and Arielle for the best illustration ideas ever; Guardian Art will never be the same. Thank you to Hayley and John for helping me do my own job back in the days when I didn’t even know how to turn on a Mac. Thank you endlessly to Margaret for always making time for me, and Angela for not only inspiring my best work, but also encouraging me on my low days. Thank you to Jeffrey for stepping up, and I sincerely wish you the very best as you boldly take on this section. And beyond The Guardian, thank you to Trang, Vivian, and Alice. There are just no words; you’ve become sisters to me.
With that, be fierce in your pas-
sions and ever fiercer in your compas-sion.
NEDA SALAMAT
  FOCUS EDITOR • LEISURE EDITOR • ASSOCIATE HIATUS EDITOR
In my first year at UCSD, I was obsessed with “Gilmore Girls” . The fashion, the town, the witty quips; I loved it all — but 
mainly, I really wanted to be Rory Gilmore. It was this compulsion (and shamefully nothing more intelligent, like a Hunter S. Thompson biography) that brought me to the glass doors of The Guardian the week of the San Diego fires.  
I didn’t read many publications at 
all (it showed in my writing) but the Hiatus editor at the time — a beautiful and Amazonian blonde by the name of Simone Wilson — took a chance on me.  Half a decade later, I’ve had the pleasure of covering Coachella, shak-ing hands with Oscar winners and staying up until 3 a.m. while my brain bleeds headlines. So, thanks Guardian — for the good times and the bad, for the friends and the Pecots, for the late nights and the early mornings. I’ve learned and loved way more than I could ever express in 500 (fucking) words.Forrest, Chelsea, Emma — Do 
werk. Y ou’re stuck with me, until the end of time. Simone, Reza, Alyssa, Vishal, Kelsey — Thanks for teach-ing me how to be. It was hard to say goodbye to you guys. Trevor, all I can say is that I’m glad our friend-ship has been a reflection of how we met — giggly, dorky, loving and full of dancing. Y ou are irreplaceable. Y elena, mi amor, my Mila, my sugar bitch, the best I never had. There ain’t no sun-shine when you’re gone, baby. Y our happiness is infectious.
Margaret, blood of my blood 
— I will miss our geek-out sessions immensely.  Y ou will always have a special place in my heart, as the won-derful young woman who saw the end of a magical era with me in the sum-mertime. Only you can understand the magnitude of such an event. Also: Don’t cut your hair. Arielle, PIC.  The Abed to my Troy, Bonnie to my Clyde, Jekyl to my Hyde. I am so proud of your strength. Y ou have a lot of talent, so don’t think I’m going to let you get away anytime soon. Mina, you are a diva in the making. More heels, more swag, less fear, all class. Show ‘em how we do, homegirl — if anyone is going to start changing the way Americans see us, it’s you. Angela, I am so impressed by you. Y ou are so much more than a hardworker and a good friend — you’re an inspiration. Y ou run this motha, babygirl—and you run it well. Hayley, it’s kind of unfair that you’re so good at so many things. It’s shocking that you haven’t devel-oped an ego about yourself (lesser women have). In fact — you are a very kind and genuinely caring person — and that’s going to carry you way farther in this world than a man ever could.  Ren, I’m so glad you came into our little Guardian family. Big, awe-some and weirdly artistic things lie in your future. Maddie —Y ou are ASL: Artistic, Sugar Mama, Lovely. Laura and Kelly — Thank you for holding my hand when I needed you most. Countdown to graduation begins, and I can’t wait to see what’s next for us.
REBEKAH  HWANG
 ART EDITOR • ILLUSTRATOR
REBEKAH
H
WANG
ART EDITOR
ART EDITOR
ART EDITOR
ART EDITOR
ART EDITOR
ART EDITOR
ART EDITOR
ART EDITOR
ART EDITOR
ART EDITOR
 • ILLUSTRATOR
ELAN LEVY/GUARDIAN
PHOTO  COURTESY  OF ERIC NYE14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY, JUNE 7, 2012 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG
Guardian Classifieds are placed online and are FREE for UCSD. Low cost classified placements for our print 
edition are also available to the UCSD campus and the public at   ucsdguardian.campusave.com
Guardian Classifieds are placed online and are FREE for UCSD. Low cost classified placements for our print edition are also available to the UCSD campus and the public at   
ucsdguardian.campusave.comComplete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in bold borders) contains 
every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.uk
Level: 12 3 4
Level: 123 4
Level: 1 2 34
Level: 1 2 3 4Level:
12
3 4Level:
12
3 4
Level:
1 2
34Level:
1 2
34Level: 12 3 4
Level: 123 4
Level: 1 2 34
Level: 1 2 3 4Level:
12
3 4Level:
12
3 4
Level:
1 2
34Level:
1 2
34sudoku.
HOUSING
Market Street Square - Located in the heart 
of downtown San Diego this impressive apartment community has all of the luxuries you expect and a fabulous location you will come to love. We are within walking distance 
of Horton Plaza, Ralphs Grocery store, the historic Gas Lamp district and the exciting new Pet Co Park Baseball Stadium. Come feel the cool ocean breezes as you experience the good life at Market Street Square! We 
offer a complimentary courtesy patrol ser -
vice, controlled access entry, gated/reserved subterranean parking, sparkling pool with 
brand new patio furniture, Fitness Center, 
and all the other amenities you expect. Respond online to listing ID: 30236860
Studio Apartment Available - Spacious stu-
dio apartment w/ free internet and dish network available for rent. Swimming pool and gym nearby. Minutes from National University and close to public transportation. This apartment won’t be available for long, so email me today. Reply online to listing ID: 30221387
$490- Female Roommate - Rent is $490 a 
month (subject to change when the lease changes) plus utilities. Apartment is locat -
ed within easy walking distance to Arriba and Nobel shuttle stops and La Jolla Village Square shopping center, and has its own washer and dryer. Room comes with adja-
cent bathroom. Quiet neighborhood. No 
pets and no smoking please. Reply online to 
listing ID: 29571504
$500- Roommate for semester - There is a 
large shared room available in our apart -
ment within walking distance of PLNU. Rent is $500 a month. Contact me if interested. 
Reply online to listing ID: 29758498
$1042 Studio- Albert’s College - Come find 
your new home with us at Albert’s College Apartments! We are conveniently located 
just 40 steps from San Diego State University 
and close to freeways, restaurants and shop -
ping. Our spacious floor plans offer wide 
open living spaces for single occupants, 
families or roommates depending on your 
needs. Enjoy our common area swimming 
pools and BBQ areas and experience our superior customer service at Albert’s College Apartments. Reply online to listing ID: 
31008031
Female roommate wanted - We are seek -
ing 1 more girl to live with us in a clean, 
cute, townhouse with 3 other girls for the 2012 school year. The townhouse has a large living room and kitchen, 2 large upstairs bedrooms, and one and a half bathrooms. You will be amazed on how big the upstairs bathroom is and there is even a walk-in clos-et. There are 3 reserved parking spaces and onsite laundry. The townhouse has a patio that is fenced in and is 1 of four connecting units that is enclosed by tall hedges for pri-vacy. You will be happy to know that there are grantite conuntertops and clean carpet and tile. We are seeking a sweet, friendly 
female to join us for an exciting school year at National University. Reply online to listing ID: 29539218
Carmel Summit - Nestled in the picturesque 
hills of prestigious Carmel Mountain Ranch, the gated community of Carmel Summit Apartment Homes offers a luxury lifestyle at an excellent price. O ur 1-and 2-bedroom 
apartment homes come with ample stor -
age, 9-foot ceilings, and a full-size washer/
dryer. Outside, youll find conveniences that 
fit your lifestyle, including easy access to Carmel Mountain Ranch Plaza, the center of 
the neighborhood. Nearby I-15 allows easy access to both the northern and southern parts of San Diego County. Reply online to listing ID: Listing ID:/uni00A030924486
Villa Monair Apartments - Welcome to Villa 
Monair resort apartments overlooking San 
Diego’s scenic Mission Bay. This classic com-munity features all the plush amenities of a luxury vacation resort, yet is just minutes from business centers, shopping, schools, and exciting recreation. O ur professional 
leasing and management staff is always on hand to ensure your satisfaction and com-fort. Experience the difference in apartment living when you make Villa Monair your next apartment home. Call to set up an appoint -
ment. Reply online to listing ID: 30484906
$650- Room for rent - Looking for room-
mate whom is responsible, trustworthy, and friendly. close to sdsu, fashion valley mall, mission valley, and downtown.-room comes with a separate bathroom.-place is completely furnished, comes w a fireplace, balcony, and cathedral ceiling.-available immediately-rent includes utilities, cable, and high-speed internet. Reply online to list -
ing ID: 26741052
THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY, JUNE 7, 2012 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 15
Nick Howe finishes his colle-
giate career with two NCAA DII 
National Championships, three All-American honors and an unparal-leled streak of four consecutive CCAA Championships. Howe was chosen as this year’s NCAA West Region Field Athlete of the Y ear.
With his school record of 231’3” , or 70.49 m, Howe has qualified for the 2012 Olympic Trials in Eugene, Ore. His mark there could signifi-cantly bump up the school record and allow him to compete for the U.S. in the upcoming 2012 London Olympics. Howe’s career was book-ended by CCAA Freshman of the Y ear honors in 2009 and CCAA Field Athlete of the Y ear in 2012. Howe won Cal/Nevada in 2010 and 2011 and garnered back-to-back Breitbard Athletic Hall of Fame Star of the Month Awards for June of 2010 and 2011.
As Head Team Captain this year, 
Howe helped his young event group earn 39 points at conference, more than Humboldt State’s entire women’s team in all events. 
	

$""

#  % 
#  % 
#  % 25 ﬁnalists. One lucky winner. The human eye likes to selﬁshly devour 
contemporary art. Create original art inspired by the Greedy Organ eyeball and it could be your ticket to fame. Finalist artwork will be displayed at MCASD and one lucky winner will be featured in an ad campaign.  
Enter online by June 10, 2012. Fame awaits. 
!!!$%! 
 # 25 and under free admission is generously 
supported by Qualcomm Foundation.Creative by
		After lead-
ing the softball 
team to its first ever NCAA Division II National  Championship in 2011, Patti Gerckens  came up just short in 2012, as the No. 24 Tritons finished in second behind No. 1 Valdosta State.
In her 20th season at the helm, 
Gerckens not only saw the Tritons to their second ever College World Series, but also steered the squad back from the brink. Clinching an uncertain last seed in the confer -
ence tournament, the Tritons’ 23-13 conference record would not be enough to qualify for the National Tournament. 
In a valiant mid-season turn-
around, Gerckens rallied the team to upset in both the West Regionals and Super Regionals, before the Tritons fell in the title game. 
Coming  
out swing-ing, freshman mid-distance sprinter Sabrina Pimentel  knocked more than five sec-onds off her personal best at Cal/Nevada in the 800m open before earning her place on the school-record-setting All-American 4x400m team at the NCAA National Meet. 
Pimentel finished second at the CCAA conference meet in the 800m while also helping to take the 4x400m crown from first-seeded San Francisco State. For her performance at the CCAAs Pimentel took Freshman of the Y ear honors.
Pimentel is the first freshman to 
earn All-American since Kelly Fogarty five years ago, and is now sitting sec-ond on the UCSD All-Time list for the 800m with plenty of room to grow. BEST COACH
MOST OUTSTANDING FRESHMAN
BEST GRADUATING SENIORHONORABLE MENTION:
HONORABLE MENTION:HONORABLE MENTION:SABRINA PIMENTEL
NICK HOWEPATTI GERCKENS
ELLIOTT
McMANUSHARPER
Chelsea CarlisleAlex HenleyDavid MortonJackie RoseRACHEL BROOKSKEITH ROSENASH HOWECASSIE CALLAHANBaseballSoccerWater Polo
BasketballSwimmingWater PoloTrsck & FieldWater PoloTrack & FieldTrack & FieldSoccerTRACK & FIELD
TRACK & FIELDSOFTBALL
THE BEST OF
TRITON  
ATHLETICS
THE BEST OF
TRITON
ATHLETICS
On their home court, one game 
away from the Elite Eight, the first-
seeded Tritons found themselves down by 12 points in the second half to second-seed Alaska Anchorage.
In the second half, the Tritons 
found a way to shut down 6’2” Anchorage center Hanna Johansson, cutting the lead down to one point with 10 minutes remaining. The match remained close down the stretch, but senior sharpshooter Daisy Feder collected the ball with 0:51 seconds remaining, sinking a three-pointer to come back to with-in one point. 
Johansson failed to convert, 
and as the Tritons raced the ball back down, sophomore forward Erin Dautremont got tied up with Johansson. In what should have been ruled a jump ball, head referee Lisa Ulmer penalized Dautremont, sending Johansson to the line to sink the game winning free throws.
This year 
the senior transfer from Hong Kong surpassed the former UCSD school record in the triple jump four times. The first time came at the CCAA meet against Cal State Los Angeles, where the senior won with the first-ever leap over 50’ for the Tritons. At nationals in Pueblo, Colorado, 
Ng was the only jumper to successfully complete his jump without scratching due to the forty mile-per hour tail wind. Other, less-technical jumpers could not keep their form and performed poorly, while Ng leapt better with every jump, breaking his own school record three times on the road to second place. Ng lost by only one centimeter, but ended his career with the best Triton mark ever.
Graduating senior Camille Gaito 
(33-12) — named the Guardian’s best female athlete in 2011 — will leave with her name all over the Triton record books. 
The righthander is a two-time 
All-CCAA first team selection, a two-time All-West Region selection and a two-time Daktronics All-American. This season, Gaito pitched 17 whole straight games to lead the Tritons in the postseason. Gaito finished 2012 with a 1.18 ERA. 
Gaito 
holds the school record for innings pitched  (877.2),  strikeouts  (617), wins (98), saves (9), appearances (154).
Junior Emily Adamczyk came to 
UCSD as a transfer from Division I UC Santa Barbara in her sophomore year. Competing in the breastroke and individual medley, Adamczyk finished third in the 200 breast stroke 400 medley relay at last year’s NCAA Division II Championships. This season, Adamczyk won the program’s only national title, taking the crown in the 200m breast stroke with a time of 2:13.18.
Adamczyk was also part of the 
400 medley relay squad that placed second.
 T h e 
2:13.18 mark also stands as the school record. SPORTSRACHEL UDA
sports @ucsdguardian.org 16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY, JUNE 7, 2012 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG
THE BEST OF
TRITON ATHLETICSOUTSTANDING TEAM
BEST MALE ATHLETEBEST GAME
BEST FEMALE ATHLETEThe women’s basketball team 
finished 21-1 in conference play, 
amassing 26 straight wins in non-conference and conference matches — by far the longest winning streak in program history, and also the best record in CCAA history. 
 They earned the program’s first-
ever No. 1 national ranking and regular season title, before falling in the CCAA tournament and West Regional final.The women’s basketball team 
will also go down as the only team in program history to boast a three-time All American, in graduating senior Chelsea Carlisle, as well as the West Region Coach of the Y ear in Charity Elliott.
HONORABLE MENTION:
HONORABLE MENTION:
HONORABLE MENTION:HONORABLE MENTION:
HONORABLE MENTION:WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
KA WAI NG
CAMILLE GAITO
EMILY ADAMCZYK
SOFTBALL
MEN’S WATER POLOWOMEN’S SOCER
DAVID MORTON
DANNY SUSDORFNICK HOWE
CHELSEA CARLISLESARAH McTIGUESARAH LIZOTTEEMILY ADAMCZYKALEX HENLEYJACQUELINE ROSEMEN’S WATER POLO VS. UC DAVISMEN’S VOLLEYBALL VS. UCLAMEN’S SOCCER VS. SONOMA STATE
ERIN DAUTREMONTJAMES McCANNGOODBRANDWater PoloBaseballTractk
BasketballSoccerWater PoloSwimmingSwimmingTrack & Field
BasketballBasketball2011 – 2012 THE GUARDIAN HONORS 
TRACK & FIELD
SOFTBALL
TRACK & FIELD
away from the Elite Eight, the first-
seeded Tritons found themselves 
down by 12 points in the second half 
to second-seed Alaska Anchorage.
found a way to shut down 6’2” 
Anchorage center Hanna Johansson, 
cutting the lead down to one point 
with 10 minutes remaining. The 
match remained close down the 
school record 
for innings 
pitched  
(877.2),  
strikeouts  
(617), wins 
(98), saves (9), 
appearances 
BEST BREAKOUT ATHELETEWOMEN’S BASKETBALL (WEST REGIONAL FINAL)
With their 23-13 conference 
record, the No. 24 UCSD softball 
team barely clinched the last berth into the CCAA playoffs. The Tritons outclassed their conference oppo-nents to capture the tournament crown, and the automatic qualifier into the NCAA Division II West Regionals with the sixth seed. 
From there, the Tritons came 
out on top of the field of four, and then took down first-seed Cal State Dominguez Hills in three games — formerly undefeated on their home field. 
In just their second-ever appear -
ance at the College World Series, the Tritons went 6-2, just falling to No. 1 Valdosta State in the title game. 
HONORABLE MENTION:SOFTBALL
Men’s Water Polo at WWPA Conference tournament
Ka Wai Ng at NCAA ChampionshipsEmily Admczyk at NCAA ChampionshipsBEST CHAMPIONSHIP PERFORMANCE
Erin Dautremont got tied up with 
Johansson. In what should have 
been ruled a jump ball, head referee 
BEST CHAMPIONSHIP PERFORMANCE
