The University of California’s 
Education Abroad Program 
announced six new study abroad 
programs for 2014–15. Two new pro -
grams in England, one at McGill 
University in Montreal and a public 
health program in the Dominican 
Republic headline the new offerings, 
which EAP’s office in Goleta, Calif. 
rolled out last week.“We tried to develop pro -
grams that are different from what 
we’ve offered in the past, ” UCEAP 
Regional Director for Asia and 
Africa Programs Mary McMahon 
said. “We looked to see what areas 
weren’t offering programs and see 
what high-quality schools we could 
partner with. ”
One of two new programs in 
London, UCEAP’s partnership with 
University College London, is a gen -
eral study-abroad program for all 
majors. The other, a University of 
California partnership with Sotheby’s 
Institute of Art, will focus more on 
exposure to the fine arts through 
museum trips and auctions.
UCEAP will also offer a service-study program in the Dominican 
Republic for health and pre-med stu -
dents, a French language program 
at McGill, a sustainable-engineering 
program in Munich and a five-week 
program in Indonesia that will be 
taught by UC Santa Cruz sociology 
professor Steve McKay.
“[UCEAP] reinstated the 
Indonesia program after a sever -
al-year absence, ” McMahon said. 
“However, we suspended one of 
our smaller programs in Germany 
because of a drop in student interest. ”
In addition to the new programs, 
a general study abroad merit schol -
arship for students doubled the 
BOARD  GAME  CREA TION FOUR  STRAIGHT MI LEY' S  MO VEMENT
"Apples  to  apples" Tritons  return  to  rimac TO   TW ER K  OR   NOT   TO   TW ER K?
fea tures , P age   6 sP ORTS ,  P age  12 OPINION ,  P age   4VOLUME 47, ISSUE 4  MONDAY , OCTOBER 7, 2013  WWW. UCSD GUARDIAN .ORG
Over 30,000 private donors 
gave funds to UCSD for the 
2012–13 fiscal year, generating 
a total of $150.3 million in gifts for uni -
versity construction, student support 
and research.
“A l l  g i f t s ,  l a r g e  a n d  s m a l l ,  a r e  m a k -
ing an important difference at UCSD, ” Vice Chancellor of External Affairs 
Steve Relyea said in a UCSD News 
Center release.
The private support comes in a 
15 percent increase from the previ -
ous year, with 30 percent of the total 
donations provided by private and 
public foundations.“Private gifts fund support for 
students, construct academic and 
medical buildings, ensure excellent 
patient care, fuel research, foster 
the arts and promise a diverse stu -
dent experience, ” UCSD Chancellor UCSD Donations hit $150.3 
Million in 2012–13FINANCE
UC Announces New Programs AbroadUC  S YSTEMUCSD’s California Public Interest 
Research Group, or CALPIRG, hosted 
a press conference in W arren Mall on 
Thursday to launch the release of a 
comprehensive guide to healthcare for 
students. The conference was held in 
response to the  national Affordable 
Care Act, known as “Obamacare, ” 
which opened to enrollment on 
Tuesday, Oct. 1.
People in attendance includ -
ed members and student interns of 
CALPIRG as well as Sarah Czarnecki, 
field representative for Rep. Scott Peters (D-Calif.). The speakers stressed the 
importance of health insurance, and 
of educating people on their options.
“We do think we are invincible 
sometimes, ” CALPIRG Campus 
Organizer Alex Acuna said. “ As young 
people, we’re healthy. The fact of the 
matter is that things happen, whether 
it be illness or injury. Every student is 
covered, but for graduating seniors this 
should be something on their minds. ”
Czarnecki said that Peters is deter -
mined to maintain an open office 
to aid people in understanding the 
healthcare changes, as well as partner 
with groups such as CALPIRG that CALPIRG Hosts Student 
Health Care ConferenceHEA LTH  
BY   g a b r i e l l a   f l e i s c h m a n  
CONTRIBUTING  writer
BY   z e v   h u rw i t z   managing  editorThe Education Abroad 
Program will partner with  
six new study abroad 
programs for 2014–15. 30,289 donors gave funds to UCSD, a 15-percent increase from the previous year.The public interest group launched a comprehensive 
healthcare guide in light of the Affordable Care Act.
UCSD CRIME 
STATISTICS
COMPILED BY MEKALA NEELAKANTAN
0
2
012
27
2511
99
80
65
66
44212
025
5
40MURDERS
ROBBERIES
WEAPONS ARRESTSFORCIBLE SEX OFFENSES
BURGLARIES
DRUG LAW ARRESTSAGGRAVATED ASSAULTS
WEAPONS DISCIPLINESIN STUDENT HOUSING
% INCREASE 
% INCREASE 
% DECREASE 
% INCREASE MORE THAN LAST YEAR % DECREASE FROM LAST YEAR
ARSONSMOTOR VEHICLE THEFTS
SS DRUG LAW DISCIPLINES
LIQUOR LAW ARRESTS
1,781 LIQUOR LAW DISCIPLINES



NHAN NGUYEN /GUARDIAN
DISORIENTED?
Students attended the annual Co-op Disorientation on Sunday , Oct. 6 in the Student Center and the Che Cafe Collective. The event was hosted by the 
university co-ops, including the General Store Co-op, the Food Co-op and Groundwork Books and featured workshop, music, films and free food. See HEALTHCARE , page 3
See DONATIONS , page 3
The Clippers Come to Campus
SEE P . 12
See ABROAD , page 3Highlights from the UCSD Police Department 
Annual Security Report, released on Sept. 30. 
B Y mekala  neelakant an   news  editor  2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 7, 2013 | WWW. UCSD GUARDIAN .ORG NE W S
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and 
Thursdays during the academic year by UCSD  students 
and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this 
newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, 
without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2013, all 
rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible 
for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The 
views expressed herein do not necessarily represent 
the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of 
California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian 
is funded by advertising. It’s too early for an inside joke.      
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035
UCSDGuardianBusiness Manager
Emily Ku 
Advertising Director  
Noelle Batema
Marketing  
Nicholas Paladino
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Page Layout
Amber Shroyer, Dorothy VanLaira Martin
Zev Hurwitz
Allie Kiekhofer
Mekala Neelakantan
Aleksandra Konstantinovic
Lauren Koa
Kelvin Noronha
Rachel Uda
Stacey Chien
Vincent Pham
Jacqueline Kim
Brian Monroe
Taylor Sanderson
Sara Shroyer
Zoë McCracken
Jeffrey Lau
Madeline MannEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
Deputy Managing Editor
News Editor
Associate News Editor
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
Lifestyle Editor
A&E Editor
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editor
Training & DevelopmentEditorial Assistants
Rachel Huang, Shelby Newallis
Copy Readers
Kim Brinckerhoff, Kate Galloway, Rachel Huang, Claire Yee
DO YOU TWEET? WE DO!
@UCSDGua rdian
BIRDLAND By Rebekah Dyer
KN-­COMI CS By Khanh Nguyen
BRIEFSb y helen  hejran   staff  writer
/uni25B6 Shutdown Costs San Diego $7 
Million:  This week’s federal govern -
ment shutdown cost the San Diego 
region to lose $7 million of econom -
ic activity each week the shutdown 
continues, according to San Diego 
Association of Governments’ chief 
economist Marney Cox.
Roughly 800,000 to 1 million 
federal employees were furloughed 
as a result of the shutdown on Oct. 
1, with about 33,000 in the San 
Diego County. Many of the workers 
furloughed on Oct. 1 work at local 
military bases. 
Cox reported the economic toll 
may be over four times greater in 
the San Diego County than in any 
other region in the nation, due to 
the high amount of furloughed 
employees. 
/uni25B6 A.S. Council Speaker Resigns:  
Council speaker John Weng for -
mally resigned effective immedi -
ately on Wednesday, Oct. 2. Weng, 
who will continue as A.S. Associate 
Vice President of Student Services is also a Student Involvement 
Leadership Consultant at the 
Center for Student Involvement, a 
NASPA Undergraduate Fellow and 
a Warren College Student Council 
Parliamentarian. 
Weng cited various reasons for his 
resignation, including the time com -
mitment to attend and continue to 
be involved in weekly council meet -
ings while balancing other work, as 
well as the change in council men -
tality and priorities following the 
induction of A.S. President Andy 
Buselt and other “Keep it REAL ” 
slate members.
/uni25B6 San Diego Continued Olympic 
Bid : San Diego placed its bid for 
the 2024 Summer Olympics with the 
U.S. Olympic Committee.
Last spring, a joint bid between 
San Diego and Tijuana was men -
tioned; however, USOC’s historian 
noted that binational bids are not 
permitted.
Other potential bids include Los 
Angeles, San Francisco, Philadelphia, Dallas and Washington, D.C.
USOC CEO Scott Blackmun 
expressed that the committee 
should decide if it will bid and, if so, 
pick its city candidate by the end of 
2014. The 2024 host will be chosen 
in 2017.
Blackmun said there are three 
factors going into the USOC’s deci -
sion to bid for a U.S. city, including 
financial sense, logical sense, and 
an assured possibility of actually 
hosting.
“We’re not in any huge hurry 
right now, ” Blackmun said. “We are 
talking to less than 10 cities at this 
point. We’ve seen some great ideas. 
We are excited about the prospect 
of bidding, but we have not made a 
decision to go forward. ”
/uni25B6 Filner May Face Criminal 
Charges : Former Mayor Bob Filner 
may face criminal charges this week 
following San Diego County’s grand 
jury proceedings.
The secret question-and-answer 
session will be held by the state attorney general’s deputies without 
Filner’s lawyer present.
“From what I understand about 
the allegations made in the civil case 
regarding sexual misconduct, I haven’t 
heard of anything that appears to me to 
rise to a level of felony, ” defense attor -
ney Anthony Solare said. “If there is a 
criminal charge here, it sounds like it’s 
a misdemeanor misconduct. ”
Filner’s lawyer, as well as authorities, 
declined to comment.
/uni25B6 Camp Pendleton : Officials in 
Camp Pendleton reported a brushfire 
Saturday afternoon that forced 230 
people to evacuate from the area’s base 
housing unit and 30 patients to evacu -
ate from the Naval Hospital Camp 
Pendleton. The 1,500-acre fire was 
contained by 15 percent on Sunday, 
although it is projected to continue 
moving along the Santa Margarita 
River.
Residents of Camp Pendleton’s 
Lake O’Neill will be able to return to 
their homes, following approval from 
fire officials.NE W S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 7, 2013 | WWW. UCSD GUARDIAN .ORG 3
ad name:  CW JD Ad1  size: ½ page H  —12.5" x 10.5"
publication:  CSU Fullerton - “Daily Titan”  pub date:  09/17/13
MD contact:  Andrea Bianchi  phone:  760-231-8286
We provice a theory-based legal
education combined with practical,
hands-on skills and experiences that
prepare our students to hit the
ground running.ON CAMPUS WEDNESDAY OCTOBER 9TH
Deborah Dixon ’07
Partner
Wingert Grebing Brubaker & Juskie, LLP
Scan this code to learn more about Deborah
or visit  www.cwsl.edu/IamReady  Profession Ready
ad name:  CW JD Ad2  size: ½ page H  —10" x 8"
publication:  UCSD- “The Guardian”  pub date:  10/07/13
MD contact:  Andrea Bianchi  phone:  760-231-8286LIGHTS & SIRENSAnonymous Alumnus Donates Record $18.5 Million to UCSD
CALPIRG Guide Will be Available This Week on Library Walk
Study Abroad Enrollment Is Expected to Increase This YearPradeep K. Khosla said.
Of the 30,289 donations, 15 percent 
came from alumni — a record num -
ber that included an unprecedented 
$18.5 million gifted to the computer 
science and engineering department 
from an anonymous Jacobs School of 
Engineering alumnus.
“I made this gift to recognize the 
wonderful education I received and to 
assist the department in its efforts to 
reach even higher levels of excellence, ” 
the donor said. “It is my wish to ‘pay 
it forward, ’ and I hope other alumni, at all giving levels, will consider doing 
the same. ”
The $18.5 million will go toward 
funding new teaching labs, tutoring 
programs and endowment chairs, 
among other projects.
Notable gifts also included $4 mil -
lion in scholarship support for graduate 
students from the Jerome and Miriam 
Katzin Prize Endowment Fund and a 
$1.6 million award from the Paul G. 
Allen Family Foundation, created by 
Microsoft founder Paul Allen.
Assistant physics professor 
Suckjoon Jun received the Allen 
Distinguished Investigators award to continue research in the field of inter -
disciplinary quantitative biology.
Jun, a member of the UC San 
Diego Y oung Investigator Program, is 
the first UCSD member to be such an 
award recipient.
Other donations includ -
ed a bequest of $6.05 million 
from the Walter J. and Betty C. 
Zable Foundation, a $4.6 million 
grant from the U.S. Hereditary 
Angioedema Association and $4.3 
from the Simons Foundation.
amount of funding it would allocate 
for 2013–14. The scholarship, one 
of several that all UC students can 
apply for, raised its total budget from 
$500,000 to $1 million.
McMahon, who led the new pro -grams workgroup for UCEAP , also 
said that she expected enrollment in 
programs announced last year, like a 
program at Ben Gurion University 
of the Negev in Israel and University 
College Dublin to increase as word of 
mouth from alumni begins to spread.
“Programs are slow to roll out, but we find that the biggest influence 
is student hearing from another stu -
dent coming back from the program, 
she said. “Peer influence is the great -
est of all. ”readers  can  contact
ME KALA  NEE LAKANT AN     MNEELAKA@ucsd.edu  
provide education resources.
Following the press conference, 
CALPIRG members handed out a tip 
sheet about the new healthcare reforms 
on Library Walk. A full 14-page 
guide will be available this week in 
the Student Health Services and on 
Library Walk.
The UCSD CALPIRG chapter’s 
chair, Amrita Ray, emphasized the 
informative nature and simplicity of 
the guide.
“The guide lays out the new health -
care reforms, ” Ray said. “We’re not 
trying to trick you; we’re just trying to 
let you know what’s going on. Health 
insurance does affect us, — it is in flux right now, and we should keep on top 
of the changes. ”
The CALPIRG guide also specifi -
cally outlines the options for graduat -
ing college students. Under the ACA, 
children can now remain under their 
parents’ healthcare until they are 26. 
People can also find coverage through 
employment, student healthcare plans, 
or Covered California. Certain peo -
ple can also qualify for Medi-Cal or 
Healthy Families.
Several other changes that come 
with the ACA, including the addi -
tion of Covered California, an online 
marketplace that allows shoppers to 
compare insurance options. The new 
law also mandates that having a pre-
existing condition is no longer grounds for denied insurance or raised rates. 
Women can also no longer be charged 
more than men. Families below certain 
income levels can now receive financial 
aid in purchasing insurance.
Senior Sheryl Mendoza works at a 
pharmacy and is thus informed about 
the healthcare reforms.
“When it comes to insur -
ance, it isn’t something you buy, 
like clothes, ” Mendoza said. “You 
research it, and find the best for you 
and your family. It’s part of life; it’s 
something you always have to have. 
If you don’t have health insurance, 
it’s going to hurt you more. ”
readers  can  contact
gabriella  fleigschman    gfleisch@ucsd.edu  
readers  can  contact
zev  hur witz    zhurwitz@ucsd.edu/uni25B6 GIVING from page 1
/uni25B6 HEALTH CARE,  from page 1
/uni25B6 ABROAD,  from page 1Friday, Sept. 27
1:23 p.m.: Preserve the Peace
/uni25B6Police reported that a former stu -
dent could attend class after being 
told they could not attend class. 
Unable to locate.
9:41 p.m.: Assist Other Agency
/uni25B6A resident advisor reported a glass 
bottle thrown out of a building. 
Information only.
10:02 p.m.: Fire
/uni25B6A vehicle was on fire and was 
fully engulfed in flames along 
Scholars Drive South due to acci -
dent/mechanical malfunctions. 
Fire extinguished by San Diego Fire 
Department. 
10:18 p.m.: Medical Aid
/uni25B6A young adult female passed out 
after feeling ill all day. Transported 
to hospital.
Saturday, Sept. 28
12:08 a.m.: Welfare Check
/uni25B6A parent was concerned about not 
being able to get a hold of their 
daughter. Checks OK.
Sunday, September 29
12:02 a.m.: Disturbance
/uni25B6Students were smoking on the first 
floor of Goldberg Hall. Gone on 
arrival.
2:28 a.m.: Citizen Flagdown
/uni25B6Police arrested a male student for 
assaulting a taxi cab driver and run -
ning off without paying cab fare. 
Closed by adult arrest.
3:35 p.m.: Injury
/uni25B6A male was bleeding after hitting 
his head on a clothing hook inside 
of a bathroom in the Sixth College 
Residence Halls. Transported to hos -
pital. 
2 a.m. to 9:25 a.m.: Citizen Contact
/uni25B6Unknown suspects accessed the 
victim’s private user accounts for 
various websites and networks. 
Report taken.Tuesday, Oct. 1
12:59 p.m.: Injury
/uni25B6A female subject was coughing up 
blood in Pacific Hall. Transported 
to hospital.
1:03 p.m.: Disturbance
/uni25B6A large group of people waiting for 
autographs from the Clippers were 
refusing to leave the premises. Gone 
on arrival.
5:42 p.m.: Hazard Situation
/uni25B6An adult female was dangling 
her feet on the roof of the Keeling 
Apartments while talking on a cell -
phone. Checks OK. 
Wednesday, Oc t. 2
12:06 a.m.: Suicide Attempt
/uni25B6Student reported concerns about 
possible suicidal comments made by 
a roommate. Field interview admin -
istered.
6:03 a.m.: Person Down
/uni25B6The San Diego Fire Department 
responded to reports of a female 
subject down. Gone on arrival/San 
Diego Fire Department transported 
victim.
2:58 p.m.: Unknown Injury 
Accident
/uni25B6A caller stated that he was involved 
in an accident and disconnected. 
Unable to locate. 
5:04 p.m.: Signal Light Malfunction
/uni25B6Subject reported that the push 
button to the Villa La Jolla Drive/
Gilman Drive crosswalk was dam -
aged. Referred to other agency.
8:30 p.m.: Injury
/uni25B6Police found an adult male fallen 
off of Canyonview Pool Center’s 
rock climbing wall with a possible 
arm injury. Medical transportation 
refused.
10:48 p.m.: Noise Disturbance
/uni25B6A male subject was banging on an 
apartment door shouting, “Let me 
in!” Unable to locate.
— MEKALA NEELAKANTAN
News EditorLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edu.OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
LAUREN  KOA
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOB ER 7, 2013 | WWW. UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 
QUICK  T AKESFORMER DISNEY STAR MILEY CYRUS’ “WRE CKING BA LL” MUSI C VIDEO HAS OVER 194 MILLION VIE WS ON YOUTU BE, 
BUT HAS CREATE D CONTROVERSY AMONG FEMINIST GROUPS DUE TO ITS EXPLI CIT SEXUALITY AN D NUDITY.
Four men may be credited for 
writing “Wrecking Ball,” but it’s 
Miley Cyrus herself who gets all the 
credit for going nude in her new 
music video.
Men may offer demos, options 
and suggestions to powerful female 
artists in the industry, but female 
performers make the decision to 
accept or reject them. 
Whether the path they choose is 
conservative or sexual, women have 
the power to control the direction 
and image they want to bring to 
their art and careers. 
Both powerful men and women 
comprise the music industry; 
female artists who proudly choose 
to take their careers in a different 
direction should not be charac -
terized as being “anti-female” or 
exploited by men for doing so. 
It is a double standard to say that 
women cannot choose to express 
sex in their music. This suggests 
that only men can characterize 
and portray women sexually, while 
women themselves can’t. This pre -
conceived notion only supports tra -
ditional constructs of how females 
should view and treat their sexual -
ity. The way female artists choose to express themselves in regards to sex 
and their bodies in their music is 
ultimately up to them.
Society’s latest trend has been 
to criticize Cyrus for her overtly 
sexual and promiscuous perfor -
mances, but the star is proud of her 
newfound freedom in her music. 
The former “Hannah Montana” 
star tweeted several unenthused 
responses to the industry advice 
that ’80s pop star Sinead O’Connor 
offered her in a public letter. 
O’Connor complimented the young 
artist’s talent, but warned her not 
let the industry prostitute her 
and her body. Miley’s rejection of 
O’Connor’s advice shows her con -
fidence behind her decision to take 
on a direction of her own.
No one forced Cyrus to grind 
with Robin Thicke at the Video 
Music Awards, nor was she pushed 
to transform herself from teen pop 
star to twerk queen. Miley Cyrus 
is one of many empowered female 
artists who have made their own 
decisions and prospered in the 
music industry.
— LAUREN KOA
Opinion Editor?WUMV)ZM7JRMK\QÅMLIVL5Q[ZMXZM[MV\MLJaI5ITM
,WUQVI\ML8WX5][QK1VL][\Za7J[M[[ML?Q\P;M`.MUITM8W_MZ)Z\Q[\[0I^M\PM.ZMMLWU\W+PWW[M  
,QNNMZMV\,QZMK\QWV[.WZ<PMQZ1UIOMIVL5][QK
Miley Cyrus may “do what she 
wants, ” but she doesn’t play by her 
own rules. Amid all the twerking 
and licking, Cyrus’s sexual “move -
ment” is motivated by the males in 
the industry’s time-honored tradi -
tion of selling sex. 
Miley Cyrus is just one in a long 
line of female artists — including 
Olivia Newton-John, Beyonce and 
Katy Perry — whose sexy top hits 
have been written and directed by 
men, for the most part. Janet Jackson, 
a sex figure herself, co-wrote and 
released the single “Let’s Wait Awhile” 
in 1986. Y et this song, which doesn’t 
conform to male’s sexual desires, 
did not win any prestigious awards. 
“That’s the Way Love Goes, ” however, 
in which Jackson promises in not-so-
subtle sexual innuendos to give her 
lover the time of his life, stayed on 
the top of Billboard’s Hot 100 for 8 
weeks and won her a Grammy. The 
ideas of passionate, hot sex in this 
song are considerably more popular 
than ones containing more conserva -
tive ideas about love in her earlier, 
less popular 1986 single.
This objectification of women 
in the music industry wrongly 
perpetuates the image of females as sex objects. A study published 
in the Journal of Broadcasting and 
Electronic Media argues that music 
videos often feature women “as sex 
symbols that simply must have sex 
and will submit to any fantasy that a 
man may have. ” 
Female artists are depicted 
as submissive sex icons who, as 
Cyrus sings in “Wrecking Ball, ” 
will always want you, regardless 
of how you treat them. Billboard’s 
poll of the “10 Best Videos of the 
2000s” highlights five female art -
ists; four of whom — Beyonce, 
Rihanna, Britney Spears and Lady 
Gaga — are gyrating seductively at 
the camera, or worse. Sex sells, and 
the men in the industry are capital -
izing on it. 
Female artists tend to be most 
successful when catering to men’s 
sexual desires. Female artists must 
buy in and strip down, or get left 
behind amid the glitter and nudity 
of their competitors. But that leaves 
women pigeonholed as sex symbols 
in an industry that should be cel -
ebrating talent instead. /uni00A0/uni00A0
— ALIA BALE S
Staff WriterEx-National Security Agency contractor 
Edward Snowden’s bombshell disclosure of 
the extent of federal wiretap surveillance 
programs caused quite the ruckus this summer. 
With the nation’s domestic espionage policies 
revealed for the first time, the government scram -
bled to justify its privacy intrusions as the public 
voiced its outrage.
On both sides of the metaphorical political 
aisle, citizens and media analysts alike decried the 
government’s mass collection of electronic com -
munications data, such as Facebook messages and 
emails. But what all concerned parties should keep 
in mind is that their private information has long 
been lying in the scheming hands of several Silicon 
Valley corporations.
Take Google, for example. Despite its over -
whelmingly positive public image, the preeminent 
tech firm is one of the most egregious offenders 
when it comes to the privacy of users’ data. An Oct. 
2 article in The New Y ork Times outlined several 
instances of current lawsuits alleging that Google’s 
Gmail service, which operates nearly 60 percent of 
email accounts in the United States, illegally moni -tored users’ email and used the data for undisclosed 
purposes. During a trial, Google itself admitted that 
all messages sent to and from Gmail addresses by 
generally unsuspecting users are scanned. Tellingly, 
US 9th Circuit Judge Lucy Koh deemed this inva -
sive process unjustifiable given Google’s basic task 
of sending email.
For the average consumer who is, realistically 
speaking, unlikely to scour the Terms of Service 
with an attorney’s eye for sinister privacy pitfalls, 
the broad scope of the company’s mischief will 
prove surprising. An inspection of the Terms of 
Service accompanying Google products reveals 
that any content “submitted to Google’s Services, ” 
including any emails or documents sent via Gmail, 
are subject to be “used, reproduced, modified, or 
publicly displayed. ”
However, not all of Google’s policies are dis -
claimed on their website. The company cars that 
meander up and down neighborhood streets 
collecting imagery for Street View on Google 
Maps were caught illegally collecting data from 
residents’ Wi-Fi networks. What Google did with 
that data is so far a mystery, but their ability to blatantly steal data and receive just a trivial fine is 
cause for worry. While Google claims that the use 
of consumers’ data is intended for promotional 
and developmental purposes, consumers would 
presumably be livid to see their personal cor -
respondence emblazoned in Times Square’s neon 
ads as a Google promo spot.
Although such a situation is unlikely given the 
public backlash it would cause, it would be per -
fectly possible given the power that Google grants 
themselves through their end user agreements. As 
consumers become aware of the computer scien -
tists at Google’s Mountain View, Calif. headquar -
ters looking over their figurative shoulders, they 
should start to consider the alternative services 
available from companies who have less interest in 
mass data collection.
As if their cavalier approach to basic user pri -
vacy wasn’t bad enough, Google’s legal terms go on 
to state that the company has every right to “create 
derivative works” from anything sent via Gmail or 
stored on the increasingly popular Google Drive Spirituality
Is Not Lost
In Science
Education
An anti-evolution group in 
Kansas filed a federal law -
suit against the Kansas State 
Department Board of Education two 
weeks ago, claiming its curriculum 
promotes atheism and forces suscepti -
ble children into accepting evolution. 
While the theory of evolution may 
threaten these groups’ worldview, this 
is the point of the scientific method: 
to adapt one’s opinions in light of new 
discoveries about our living reality.
What these groups need to under -
stand is that human spirituality is not 
lost in science. We’re all humans, and 
all of us understand what it means to 
feel a deep sense of wonder for the 
world and its beautiful conglomera -
tion of novelty, variety, and mystery. 
The enthusiasm that emanates from 
a professor who is truly inspired by 
his field is the exact same enthu -
siasm and wonder that religious 
people feel toward their god or gods. 
Spirituality is merely an emotional 
state: a feeling of inspiration and 
purpose, the fulfillment in finding 
meaning in our seemingly purpose -
less existence. To say that science 
lacks spirituality is to misunderstand 
what spirituality means. 
I was raised religious, but I can’t 
name one thing that religion can 
accomplish for me that can’t also be 
accomplished by actively and freely 
pursuing my interests. Neuroscience 
fascinates me. Public health is excit -
ing, challenging and meaningful. 
I love to write, to play music, to 
travel. And the fulfillment that I feel 
can, too, be experienced by an art -
ist expressing an emotional state or 
delivering a message, or by an engi -
neer crafting efficient solutions to 
real-world problems. I can’t imagine 
what my life would have been like if I 
had been denied the chance to learn 
the scientific principles that led to the 
theory of evolution. This is the func -
tion of education: to teach what we 
know and lay an exciting foundation 
for further exploration, whatever the 
subject may be.
That said, religion shouldn’t be 
eradicated in the global system with 
hatred and haughty over-generaliza -
tions. Take r/atheism on Reddit, for 
example. The people on that web -
site bash religion just as ignorantly 
and persistently as some religious 
groups challenge scientific theories. 
It’s important to understand that 
religion does — and will — have 
a place in global culture. But the 
point is this: Spirituality is meant to 
be an individual choice, a personal 
decision. If people are allowed to 
pursue what they please, they will 
find that deep sense of personal ful -
fillment and purpose. 
In a postmodern society, we have 
access to community and shared 
purpose based on mutual values and 
ideas that don’t have to be associ -
ated with faith in a deity. Society is 
built upon methods that transcend 
religious conviction because religion 
is personal, not universal. This is 
why we have laws, a judicial system 
and a constitution delineating our 
unalienable rights. We need to teach 
kids the scientific method, because it 
is how we go about discovering facts 
and making appropriate decisions 
based on these findings. Science and 
the theory of evolution are a product 
of those methods, and are our best 
attempt at making sense of our obser -
vations about the world.NICO   H EM SLE Y NAHEMSLEY@ucsd.eduJUS TICE    IS    SER VED
The Real Big Brother
B Y  kel vin  noronha  associate  opinion  editor  
illustra tion   b y   herrick  ongInternet users should be wary of the overreaching technology 
firms putting users’ private information at risk.
See PRIVACY , page 5O P INION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOB ER 7, 2013 | WWW. UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 5
service. Simply put, Google engineers 
can liberally “borrow” any content 
that crosses their servers. 
Alarmingly, Google is not the 
only privacy offender with a sleek 
glass Bay Area office. The Wall 
Street Journal reported that a new 
Facebook privacy policy allows the 
company to use for marketing the 
personal data of anyone signing up 
for an account, regardless of age. 
Even Apple couldn’t resist getting 
caught up in the fray, and recorded 
iPhone users’ location data for some 
time before caving to public pressure 
and removing the offending software 
element. Despite the number of mis -
deeds, there has been little protest. Government action against these 
issues thus far has been half-hearted; 
fines have not exceeded slaps on the 
wrist. Without a concerted legislative 
effort to protect users, companies 
will continue to record children’s 
birthdays, preferred clothing and best 
friends’ addresses.
So although libertarians every -
where rail against the excesses of 
the NSA ’s surveillance programs, 
the bigger threat to citizens’ privacy 
comes at the hands of corporations. 
Largely overlooked and frighteningly 
unaccountable for their actions, 
internet companies harvest our data 
on just as massive a scale as does 
the government. And while the 
NSA operates under the oversight 
of elected officials with the goal of protecting the citizens under its 
purview, Silicon Valley firms look 
only to turn a profit. Catching the 
bad guys unfortunately necessitates 
some loss of civil liberties — that’s 
why the NSA has existed for the past 
60 years. But there’s no reason why 
a corporation should be allowed the 
same sleight of hand.
We tend to depend on tech com -
panies for the wonderful conveniences 
of our day-to-day lives, which earns 
them lots of goodwill points. But just 
because a company comes up with a 
pretty new doodle everyday doesn’t 
mean they’ve got consumers’ best 
interests anywhere near their hearts.
Discover graduate programs for aspiring teachers, 
counselors, university and school administrators, and  
marital and family therapists.
Fall Open House
Saturday, October 12th at 9:30 a.m.
University of San Diego
(619) 260-7988  |  solesadmissions@sandiego.edu  |  solesfallopenhouse2013.eventbrite.com
Scan the code or visit our website to RSVP .Take the /f_irst step toward a career 
in education or counseling.
,

	(*!$'"( +,- !',#!%,#-+ ! -' %((*('"!*!'!((&

,- !',+


,- !',+
(*.$,#
  
&
)&&
)&&
)&	
 	
 	

	(*! ,!+%(,$('+('(-*.!+$,!FLU  CLINICS

SOLVE FOR X By Philip Jia
.QZU[¼,I\I+WTTMK\QWV8WTQKQM[)ZM,IVOMZW][NWZ+WV[]UMZ[
readers  can  contact
  Kel vin Noronha   KNORON HA@ucsd.edu  /uni25B6 PRIVACY,  from page 4We  want  to
  hear  about  
them.Got  Issues?
Write  a  letter  to  the  editor2
Be  Heard  by  
the  Student  
body.
opinion@ucsdguardian.orgSend your letters to6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOB ER 7, 2013 | WWW. UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
ST ACEY  CHIEN
features@ucsdguardian.org
Almost a decade after graduating from UCSD in 1987, board 
game designer Matthew Kirby began creating what is known 
today as “ Apples to Apples, ” the game of hilarious comparisons 
that can be found in many dorm rooms around campus.
“ Apples to Apples” is a party game designed for large groups of 
players. The game consists of two decks: one deck of green cards, 
each containing an adjective, and one deck of red cards, each con -
taining a noun. The goal of the game is to match a red card’s noun 
to the adjective on the green card. During the course of the game, a 
judge will present a green card and players will each select a red card 
they thinks is the best match. The player who has the best match is 
awarded the green card. 
Kirby described the game as a mirror that reflects the opinions 
of its players. He said that the game came to him as an accidental 
inspiration one day at his in-laws’ home.
“I wanted to start an intellectual conversation, so I asked who 
was a better writer, F. Scott Fitzgerald or Ernest Hemingway, and I 
noticed a pattern, ” Kirby said. “The whole universe is contained in 
every little thing; it depends on how you look at it. ”
That was the moment he formed the concept behind “ Apples 
to Apples. ” Fitzgerald and Hemingway became the game’s first two 
red cards, and the adjective “better” became the first green card. 
From that point, Kirby created eight different prototypes of a game 
designed to make players identify, think about and compare the 
fundamental qualities of ordinary things.
However, Kirby said that even before he came up with the idea 
for the game, his philosophical journey had begun years ago during 
his time as an Earl Warren College student pursuing an engineering 
degree at UCSD. 
“I believe the game was truly philosophically and spiritually cre -
ated at UCSD, ” Kirby said. “Everything I experienced [helped], from 
the professors in lectures to the alcohol-fueled intellectual conversa -
tions late at night. ”
Kirby expressed his deep appreciation for the thought-provoking and theoretical instruction that he received at UCSD. In particular, 
he recalled a history class that examined the viewponts of some of 
the greatest minds of the world, such as Galileo and Newton. For 
Kirby, it was classes like those that inspired and shaped the way he 
views the world. Consequently, “ Apples to Apples” was created with 
the intention of bringing out players’ opinions about the world.
In his spare time, Kirby enjoys giving lectures and seminars at 
various elementary schools. His objective is to encourage students 
to exercise their creativity and pursue their goals.
“I try to tell them not to have expectations and criticism and 
to just ask themselves what they see around them, ” Kirby said. 
“ Anything is possible as long as you are willing to create. ”
Currently, Kirby is creating a new game, Picaroon, which will be 
released through his company, Big Eyed Enterprises, LLC. Although 
he did not reveal much about the mechanics of Picaroon, Kirby 
described it as a pirate-themed, strategic board game well suited for 
families. His company also launched a website, picaroonboardgame.
com, to promote and fundraise for his newest creation.
In the future, Kirby hopes to take the principle behind “ Apples 
to Apples” to film and release a documentary about deconstructing 
reality. With it, he hopes to inspire viewers to look for the deeper 
meanings in this world and to consider all the characteristics of even 
the smallest of objects from a philosophical standpoint. 
“I want to take a look at the big picture and what certain things 
mean in relation to the world around it, ” Kirby said.
A piece of advice Kirby offered UCSD students was to embrace 
the UCSD experience — not only the knowledge, but also the things 
that cannot be measured, such as the process of learning itself. He 
said that he often misses the intellectual atmosphere, the lectures 
and the simple times spent with friends.
“I often ask myself if I would have created this game if I didn’t 
go to school, ” Kirby said. “But really, I would not have been that 
inspired if I just received my knowledge purely from books. ”
BEHIND THE GAME
UCSD alumnus Matthew Kirby talks about creating “Apples to Apples” 
and the underlying philosophy of his board game inventions.
BY KATHERYN WANG  STAFF WRITER
CONTACT KATHERYN WANG AT  KAWANG@UCSD.EDUPHOTO  COURT ESY OF C HAPENDRA / FLICKRFEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOB ER 7, 2013 | WWW. UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 7
    choose from 6 
one-year business 
master’s degrees
boost your job search 
Professional and Graduate 
School Information Fair
Wednesday, October 9, 2013
10:30 a.m. – 2:30 p.m.
Library Walk
wpcarey.asu.edu/graduatereally!
FALLLINENEW
ON SAL ENOW
to.u csd.ed u
A campus as tangibly scattered 
and divided as UCSD can easily give 
way to a sense of disconnection and 
alienation among its students. The 
developers of Campus Quad — a 
mobile app that visually consoli -
dates campus communication — are 
proposing a remedy. In an effort to 
implement their solution, two of 
their founding 
team mem -
bers, UCSD 
alumni Peter 
DePaulo and 
K a m e r o n 
Black, have 
returned to 
their alma 
mater to 
launch the app 
on campus.
C a m p u s 
Quad serves 
as a substi -
tute for flyer -
ing. Flyers, as 
defined by the 
app, can be 
photographs, 
event notices, 
classified ads 
or coupons for 
special events. 
I n d i v i d u a l 
students or 
groups can 
post flyers 
to the entire 
campus, an organization or a select 
few while following their friends 
and clubs or activities of interest. 
Additionally, the mapping feature of the app allows students to see and 
physically track when and where 
events are taking place throughout 
the campus. The newest version 
of the app was released mid-Sep -
tember. Android and iPhone users 
can download the app for free from 
the Apple App Store on iTunes or 
Google Play.
DePaulo described the app as 
a digital version of an on-campus 
community.
“What we’ve done is created this 
atmosphere where as soon as some -
body steps onto campus — as soon 
as they open up their phones — 
there’s a place that they can find 
what they want, ” Black said.
The app first gained traction 
at Duke University about a year 
ago and was later introduced to 
other campuses, including Stanford 
University and Foothill Community 
College — and now, UCSD.
The idea for the app stemmed 
from DePaulo and Black’s qualms 
with flyering while establishing a 
peer mentor program on campus as 
undergraduates at UCSD a couple 
years ago. 
“We both hated flyering — abso -
lutely, hands-down hated flyering, ” 
DePaulo said.
DePaulo disclosed the faults that 
they found with flyering: ineffec -
tive targeted marketing and wasted 
paper. He explained how this sent 
them on a mission to digitalize fly -
ers, which resulted in Campus Quad.
“A l l  o f  a  s u d d e n ,  y o u ’r e  n o t  b o m -
barded by all these different flyers — 
flyers getting lost in your backpack 
that you never even read — and 
your flurry of notifications from Facebook or emails, ” Black said. “ All 
of a sudden, it’s just one app that 
organizes all of that in a clear and 
concise manner so that you can have 
an easier way of connecting. ”
Black believes that the app has the 
potential to work toward eliminating 
the “UC Socially Dead” mantra.
“We have a six-college system that 
separates us from the very start, ” Black 
said. “[Using this app] is a way to bring 
us back together. We’re able to create 
this connection and this camaraderie 
that culminates in abolishing this old 
idea about UCSD and bringing back 
the culture in a new way. ”
DePaulo expressed his desire for 
the app to encourage detached stu -
dents to get involved.
“Some people could say that these 
people are lazy, but maybe they’re just 
shy, ” DePaulo said. “When I was a 
freshman, I was super shy. I didn’t 
know where to go. I was afraid of 
asking where things were. [This is] a 
subtle way to get people connected. ”
DePaulo hopes that the app will 
stimulate students’ creativity.
“I would hope that it would help 
UCSD students get a little more cre -
ative about their social experiences 
on campus, ” DePaulo said. “I want to 
see people using it in ways I haven’t 
thought of. ”
The Campus Quad team recently 
created a method of streaming a live 
feed of students’ postings from the 
application to televisions connected 
to servers — a development that 
they will release at UCSD later this 
month.
A Campus in the Palm of  Your Hand
UCSD alumni Peter DePaulo and Kameron Black speak 
about Campus Quad, a mobile application they designed as 
an integrated digital replacement for on-campus flyering.
readers  can  contact
st acey  chien    stchien@ucsd.edu  
BY   s t a c e y   c h i e n   features  editor
PHOTOS  COURT ESY OF FRANC ES CAIRNS8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOB ER 7, 2013 | WWW. UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG FEA TURES
The Greek community at UCSD 
has made room for a new addition this 
school year — its very own chapter 
of the Beta Theta Pi fraternity. Beta 
is one of the longest standing Greek 
organizations in the nation dedi -
cated to cultivating men of principle 
with strong interpersonal and lead -
ership skills. 
This process of expansion began in 
June, after the UCSD Inter-Fraternity 
Council voted in favor of bringing 
the values-based, social fraternity to 
campus. Since then, a team of advi -
sors from Beta have been surveying 
the expectations and needs of students 
and administration and building rela -
tionships on campus to gear up for a 
full-fledged recruitment effort from 
Oct. 12 to Nov. 9. 
“This is an organization for gen -
tlemen, leaders and scholars, and 
we hold that to a very high standard 
in our expansion process, ” Colin 
Gerker, a colony development coor -
dinator for Beta’s colonization at 
UCSD, said. “We’re looking for stu -
dents that are high-performing, and 
what that looks like is students that 
think that they’re way too busy to 
get involved with a fraternity. ”
The 175-year-old organiza -
tion, founded in 1839 at Miami 
University, was the first college fra -
ternity to be established west of 
the Allegheny Mountains and now 
boasts over 130,000 living members 
from 129 campuses in the United 
States and Canada.
“We’re an organization that has 
been extremely illustrious between 
the years of 1839 and 1950, ” Gerker 
said. “ And then we got into the same problem that different fraternities and 
sororities got into between the ’60s and 
the ’90s because of the ‘ Animal House’ 
culture that was widespread in the 
Greek community. ”
The trouble that Beta encoun -
tered led them to enact the “Men of 
Principle” initiative in 1997 as a push 
towards improving fraternity life and 
remodeling the Greek community. 
Beta now aims to do fraternity life, as 
described by Gerker, the right way.
“The focus of our fraternity is not 
to front-load the experience with this 
major, ‘rager’ social party dynamic — 
the college experience contains that, ” 
Gerker said. “Over the last 15 years, 
we’ve closed 90 chapters — the reason 
being that we’re not afraid of letting go 
of what we don’t really want our orga -
nization to be. ”
On another note, Gerker shared 
that in the past 17 years, Beta has 
reopened 65 chapters that abide by 
the fraternity’s renewed model, which 
emphasizes ethical values, leadership 
and academics. 
“From our perspective, it takes a 
lot of hard work and dedication to 
actually do fraternity life the right 
way, ” Gerker said. “We have a strict 
no-hazing policy. Every campus that 
we go to that has Greek housing — our 
houses are dry. Y es, it’s a social organi -
zation. We’re not saying that you can’t 
go out and have a good time, but at the 
same time, there’s a difference between 
doing keg stands and having a beer 
when you’re just watching soccer. ”
Because of their rigid adherence 
to high standards, Gerker highlighted 
that current members of Beta average 
the top GPA among fraternities while 
maintaining a solid commitment to 
locally based community outreach. He noted that Beta allocates a lot more 
money to leadership development 
than do other fraternities and that they 
are the only fraternity with an online 
education system.
Beta is currently undergoing a 
rapid expansion project that is taking 
place not only at UCSD, but at eight 
other campuses across the coun -
try as well. Some of these include 
the Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology, Florida State University 
and Drexel University.“So far, I think it’s been going very 
well, ” Gerker said. “I’ve noticed that 
students [at UCSD] are very excited 
about us coming along. We have been 
in talks with individuals that want to 
become members of our organization, 
so by the time we do start being able to 
give out bids, we’re going to have about 
seven to 10 guys that are jumping on 
board [already]. ”
Gerker expressed his excitement 
about presenting Beta to UCSD. 
“I’m just really, really fortunate to be at a campus that is so welcoming 
of us, ” Gerker said. “The students on 
campus are extremely impressive. We 
think this is the type of institution that 
Beta needs to be at. ” 
Presently, Beta is giving non-frater -
nity affiliated male students the oppor -
tunity to receive $1,000 through their 
“Men of Principle Scholarship. ” The 
application deadline is Oct. 13.
readers  can  contact
ST ACEY  CHIEN    StCHIEN@ucsd.edu  UCSD’s Greek Life Welcomes 
“Men of  Principle” to Campus
As part of its nationwide expansion process, the Beta 
Theta Pi fraternity has come to UCSD this year.
BY   S T A C E Y   C H I E N   FEATURES  EDITOR
PHOTO  COURT ESY OF BETA THETA PIPHOTO  COURT ESY OF THE UNIVERSITY  OF IOWA LIBRARI ES /FLICKR CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 7, 2013 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
LUKE CHRISTOPHER W/ JUNFLO &
DJ ANDRE POWER (SOULECTION)
THE LOFT @ THE PRICE CENTERFRI10.11 • 8PMTahrir
get
more  exposure  =  higher  attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guardian
Calenda r
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdg uardian.orgcampus
CAL ENDAR
10.07 - 10.132013
MON10.07
6pm
BLABBERMOUTH-THE LOFT
Come to our first Blabbermouth of this season! Enjoy 
the writers of prose, poetry, and fiction, as well as 
musicians and performers! Grab a bite to drink and 
eat at Zanzibar and unwind with one of the The Loft's 
most popular event series! Free for UCSD students.
7pm
ALPHA KAPPA PSI FALL RECRUITMENT (INFO 
NIGHT)-BIOENGINEERING BUILDING, FUNG 
AUDITORIUM
Whether you're a management science major eager 
to excel in the finance world, a creative artist hoping 
to delve into sales and marketing, or a bioengineer 
passionate about entrepreneurship, Alpha Kappa Psi 
realizes that talent comes in many forms. Alpha 
Kappa Psi is recognized as the premier developer of 
principled leaders, and we understand that the 
business world is composed of only the best and 
brightest individuals from a wide array of majors and 
backgrounds. As the oldest and largest professional 
co-ed business fraternity in the world, we invite you 
to join us during our FALL RUSH 2013 to see what 
our organization has to offer.TUE10.08
12pm
CLAY HILLS AND MUD PIES: AUTHOR 
READING AND BOOK SIGNING-SEUSS 
ROOM, GEISEL LIBRARY
Clay Hills and Mud Pies is a collection of stories 
recounting a Mexican American family's 100 year 
history in the United States. Three memoirs in one, 
this San Diego Book Awards Finalist is rich with 
Mexican folklore and Americana. The author, Annie 
Mary Perez, was born in Los Angeles and earned 
her bachelor's degree in Social Science at CSULA. 
She currently lives in a beachside community in 
Southern California and works as a professional 
writer and editor. She travels extensively and 
volunteers for Latino Literacy Now, a non-profit 
organization that promotes literacy in the Latino 
community. Refreshments will be served! 
Sponsored by the Librarians Association of UC San 
Diegoï¿½s Committee on Diversity
2pm
NATIONAL COMPETITIVE SCHOLARSHIPS 
INFO SESSION
Have you ever dreamt of being a Rhodes or 
Fulbright Scholar? You could be the next 
undergraduate to win a prestigious scholarship like 
this! Come to our information session to learn 
about which you qualify for and the process 
involving in applying.
4pm
WHAT ARE YOUR TRUE COLORS?-PRICE 
CENTER GREEN ROOM
In this activity, individuals discover where they fall 
in the True Colors Survey. Learn what common 
characteristics are embodied in each color, how 
each color is perceived, and how that applies to 
you. Be ready to mingle and converse with one 
another. 
5pm
CHINA AND THE FUTURE OF GLOBAL 
MANUFACTURING– ERC GREAT HALL
James Fallows will talk about the economic, 
political, and technological trends in China, in the 
U.S., and elsewhere that are shaping the prospects 
for the next wave of innovation, corporate success, 
and the growth of manufacturing. THU10.10WED10.09
7pm
CHARLES CURTIS-CONRAD PREBYS MUSIC CENTER
The 2013-14 Weds@7 series opens with cellist Charles 
Curtis playing music written for him by Christian Wolff, 
Eliane Radigue, Tashi Wada, Alvin Lucier and Alison Knowles. 
The program intersperses music from the Middle Ages and 
Renaissance.
8pm
ARTPOWER! PRESENTS: LUCY GUERIN – 
MANDEVILLE AUDITORIUM
A master of contemporary dance form, Lucy Guerin and her 
dance company hail from Australia to present Weather, her 
most recent work exploring the extremities of ever-changing 
climate and its relationship to the human form.   
11am
FFOG STUDENT ORGANIZATION INFORMATION 
FAIR-LIBRARY WALK
You don't want to miss the 30th annual FFOG Student 
Organization Information Fair. Touted as THE event to meet 
face-to-face with some of UC San Diego's most active 
student leaders and club members, FFOG features over 150 
student clubs that are registered on the UCSD campus. 
Food, demonstrations, performances, and information 
booths will line Library Walk as well as featured 
performances on the Price Center Plaza stage. Seize this 
opportunity to get information about student organizations 
and learn what they do that can make campus life a 
memorable experience for you! Get information on how to 
join a club or even join one that same day!
8:30pm
UCSD DANCESPORT TRYOUTS NO EXPERIENCE 
NECESSARY– RIMAC
From Latin to Ballroom to Swing, we learn to dance it all! 
The UCSD DanceSport team, one the best collegiate 
ballroom dance teams on the west coast, is holding a three 
week tryout session starting 8:30 pm, October 10th at 
RIMAC. Our dance coach will be teaching you a short, fun 
Cha-Cha routine for everyone to perform in November. If 
you've ever wondered how to do those sexy Latin dance 
moves or just want to improve your ballroom technique, 
then come out and join us! No experience necessary; there 
are teams for all levels of dancers! FRI10.11
8pm
LUKE CHRISTOPHER W/ JUNFLO & DJ ANDRE 
POWER (SOULECTION– THE LOFT
If there was one word to describe Luke Christopher, 
it would be multi-dimensional. He is the definition of 
a modern day hip-hop artist. Defining himself apart 
from the wider rap world, he aims to understand the 
world through relationships and that is easily 
translated through his music. His voice has a tone 
similar to Frank Ocean with a hint of soul that 
mimics a John Legend-esque, Musiq-Soulchild 
hybrid. His musical innovations such as combining 
the tasteful sounds of a piano with his rap/hip-hop 
lyrics grabbed the attention of Interscope Records 
and he has also worked with the likes of Wiz Khalifa, 
Common, Usher and Asher Roth.
SAT10.12
9am-3pm
SNORKEL LA JOLLA COVE
Explore the amazing world beneath the ocean's 
surface. The diversity of sea creatures in the cove is 
astounding! From Garibaldi (the California state 
fish) to Leopard Sharks (harmless to humans), this 
marine preserve is teaming with wildlife. What 
better way to meet this new world than to grab a 
snorkel and become part of it. Come join Outback 
Adventures for an experience you won't soon 
forget. Signup online under Snorkeling at 
http://tinyurl.com/kefmaqd, Outback Adventures 
Rental Shop located behind Pepper Canyon, Surf 
Shop in Price Center, or over the phone at 
858-534-0684.
10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 7, 2013 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSClassifieds$
Gua rdian Classi/f_ieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT^^^\JZKN\HYKPHUVYNJSHZZPÄLKZcrossword
ACROSS
1  “Now we’re in for it!”
5 Whopper of a meal
10 Tattooist’s surface
14 Fan mag
15 Developing egg
16 Reverse, in word processing
17 Worshiped carving
18 Gave false hope to
19 Track event
20 Christmas service
23 With “A, ” 1986 Ted Danson film
26 At ease with
27 Web forum user’s self-image
28 Red giant or white dwarf
29 Price indicators
30 Down Under gem
33 Replies to an invite
37 California’s Santa __ River
38 The Rebels of the Southeastern 
Conference, familiarly
40 Before, to 
bards
41 Tongue of Tiberius
43 Totally 
absorbed
44 Soft cheese
45 Entrée list
47 Brought a smile to
49 More’s perfect place
52 Waifish supermodel from Britain
54 Easy to use, in adspeak
56 Slanted type: Abbr.
57 Claim as one’s own
58 Carry out
62 Harbor pushers
63 Popular tattoo site
64 Craving
65 Blade with a guarded tip
66 Spanish sovereigns
67 Cornet noteDOWN
1 Six-Day War weapon
2 Stashed away
3 Beatle spouse Yoko
4 Batters’ protection
5 Poppycock
6 Two, four, six, etc.
7 German wheels
8 Trudge, as through mud
9 Opposite of “At ease!”
10 Vacation times
11 Work on sore muscles
12 “That is, ” in 41-Across
13 “Wrong!”
21 “__ bad boy!”: Lou Costello catchphrase
22 Peter the Great et al.
23 Like some mistakes
24 The first Mrs. Trump
25 Pester persistently
28 Lose traction
31 Home to many llamas
32 Docs’ org.
34 Left-hand page
35 Is a Nosy Parker
36 Sprouts-to-be
38 “__ the loneliest number”: ‘60s song 
lyric
39 Law book contents
42 Sudden urge
44 Saddens, slangily
46 Daytona 500 org.
48 Enero or mayo
49 Come together
50 Figure, as a sum
51 No longer a minor
52 Wild and crazy
53 More than enough
55 Zilch
59 ‘Hood buddy
60 Word before booster or tripper
61 “Is it soup __?”ELECTRONICS
G5 Apple Computer Selling - $450 - G5 
Apple Computer For Sale. Nothing wrong 
with it, just missing one button off the 
keyboard. Military family relocating, try -
ing to get rid of miscellaneous furniture. 
Price has been lowered from $600 to $450. 
Please call 7577684366 or Text 6199935118 
if interested. Listing ID: 68640902 at ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tion
CANON 350D WITH 2 LENSES - 400.00 - I 
have a canon 350d(gray) used for sale $400 
OBO!!!, it has a little wear on the hand 
hold but works fine and lenses are perfect. 
comes with the standard EF-S 18-55mm 
kit lens, as well as a EF-S 55-250mm. has 
a battery with charger, bag, original disks 
and papers and a 8gb CF card. WILLING 
TO NEGOTIATE PRICE!!! CASH ONLY NO 
PAYPAL!!!!!! Listing ID: 69107477 at ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tion
BIKES
Old school custom Scooter - 85.00 - Old 
school Scooter rebuilt for a Young lady 3-9 
years old, from a collection of Scooter parts 
www.ucsdguardian.org/advertisingthat I have. Starting from the ground up, I 
removed original stickers and updated the 
Scoot with a Race theme. Everything on 
the Scooter was serviced, (hubs & head-set 
greased). New tires installed. Bmx bars with 
stem added to the scoot, to improve han -
dlin. Listing ID: 66880570 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
SE Wildman 2011 obo - $180 - SE Wildman.. 
rides smooth nothing wrong with it. needs 
chain cause the other 1 was rusted n i took 
it off. no brakes bike looks like this odyssey 
pedals fit eastern bmx animal stolen bike 
bikes. Listing ID: 70742298 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
GT Roadbike very nice - $500 - Great bike, 
good investment I just can’t keep it. 500 or 
best offer Thx. Listing ID: 70742301 at ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
Dyno Glide Deluxe Beach Cruiser - $150 - 
DYNO GLIDE DELUXE BEACH CRUISER. Tires 
are in attractive condition. Custom Paint. 
Custom Handle Bars. Bell. Front Light. Rear 
Blinking Red Light. Custom Seat. This Beach 
Cruiser has very little usage. FANTASTIC 
CONDITION!!! Listing ID: 57963348 at ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
tyour vision,
our mission.
outfitters@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel to 
promote your student 
organization with Triton 
Outfitter's new Made TO 
Order  program!
.com/ucsdguardian
as.ucsd.edu
GOOD DRIVERS
NEEDED!
Get the perfect part-time job. Earn 
$12.85/hour. Work on campus. 
Flexible hours. Paid training. 
Hiring now for summer training. 
UCSD students only. Details at 
shuttledrivers.ucsd.eduPython and iPhone App 
Programmers wanted 
for paid part-­time 
summer projects.
UCSD’ s Cosmology group is 
seeking experienced Python and 
iPhone software developers. 
Applicants must be current 
UCSD students. Starting salary 
for qualified students will be 
$12/hour. Applicants will spend 
between 10 and 20 hours per 
week on programming projects. 
Please send an informal transcript 
and summary of programming 
experience (in PDF form) to 
greggreg99@ymail.com.
Graphic Design Service for Student Organizations!
Located in PC East, 3rd Floorasgraphicstudio.ucsd.eduSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOB ER 7, 2013 | WWW. UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 11
Last Friday the UCSD men’s 
water polo team took on the top-
seeded UCLA Bruins and lost 17–2. 
Setting the stage for the Tritons to 
take on the No. 1-ranked Bruins, 
just over 1,000 fans were in atten -
dance to commemorate 30 years 
of water polo at the Canyonview 
East Pool. Despite the difficult loss, 
UCSD head coach Denny Harper 
was still happy with the turnout.
“Everything was great except for 
the water polo, ” Harper said after 
the game.
Sophomores Chase Cockerill 
and Jeffery Jarvis are credited with 
one goal each for UCSD, while 
junior Triton goalkeeper Cameron 
Ravanbach managed a respectable 
eight saves against the powerhouse 
Bruins offense.
The game began on a high note 
for the Tritons with UCSD winning 
the sprint and junior Matt Michalko 
taking the first shot attempt of 
the game. A turnover quickly led 
UCLA to draw the first blood with 
the opening goal, but the UCLA 
onslaught wouldn’t stop with the 
initial volley, as five UCLA play -
ers managed to score in the open -
ing minutes, including two goals by 
Aimone Barabino. The first quarter 
ended with the Tritons absent on 
the scoreboard despite a great effort 
by the squad to find the back of the Bruins’ cage.
In the second quarter, the 
Tritons quickly found themselves 
back on their side of the pool as 
UCLA ’s squad repeatedly scored in 
the first few minutes. Harper noted 
the Bruins’ exceptional lineup. 
“This is one of the best Bruins 
teams I’ve seen in recent memory, ” 
Harper said. They were on a mis -
sion. ”
The third quarter was equally as 
tough for the Tritons, ending with 
UCLA up 16–0.
The fourth quarter was the only 
period that the Tritons outscored 
the Bruins as both Cockerill and 
Jarvis found the net. The crowd, 
eager to see the Tritons on the 
scoreboard, erupted in cheer.
The Tritons will go on the road 
hungry for redemption. In his post -
game remarks, Harper was optimis -
tic that his now-7–8 crew would 
“get that taste out of their mouth 
soon. ” 
With five games in three days 
next week, the Tritons had bet -
ter do so and quickly. UCSD will 
meet California Baptist University 
next Friday, UC Riverside shortly 
thereafter and will travel to Irvine to 
compete with California’s best in the 
SoCal Tournament slated for Oct. 
12 to Oct. 13.MEN' S  W A TER  PO LO
BY   J O H N  STOR Y   CONTRIBUTING  WRITER
readers  can  contact
JOH N  STOR Y     JSTORY@ucsd.edu  TRITONS MAULED BY 
FIRST PLACE BRUINS
The Tritons fell to No. 1-ranked UCLA 17–2 in 
front of a crowd of over 1,000 people.
PHOTO  BY ALWIN SZ ETO /GUARDIAN F ILESPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
RACHEL  UDA
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOB ER 7, 2013 | WWW. UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 
Road Wins
UCSD Concludes Seven-Game Road Trip With 
Two Weekend WinsB Y rit a  eritsland   CONTRIBUTING  WRITER        
photo   b y     beatriz  bajuelos
The UCSD women’s volleyball 
team finished a seven-game 
road trip with tough wins 
against opponents Cal Poly Pomona 
and Humboldt State this weekend. 
With an impressive 5–2 record on 
the road in conference play, the 
Tritons can finally park the bus for 
a while.
“I’m pretty happy with the result, ” 
UCSD head coach Ricci Luyties said. 
“When we first saw the schedule, we 
talked about it; we knew the start 
of the season was going to be really 
tough, but if we could get through it 
and have a good record after, we’re 
all set. ”
Luyties was unsure whether or 
not the long road trips were good for 
team building.
“Either it’s good for them, or 
they are getting sick of each other, ” 
he said.
But this weekend’s road trip 
results were positive. UCSD traveled 
to Los Angeles on Thursday to meet 
Cal Poly Pomona, a team it hasn’t 
lost to since October 2007. The game 
resulted in another Triton win when 
the team took its first five-set match 
of the season.
“We had a couple of chances to 
win 3–0,” Luyties said. “Pomona 
fought hard and had a really good 
crowd that helped them, so we were 
really glad to take them down in the 
fifth set. It was a good learning expe -
rience for us, and it’s always nice to win in the conference. ”
Sophomore Danielle Dahle and 
junior Sophie Rowe — both outside 
hitters — each had 18 kills for UCSD 
in the team’s five-set win. Junior Sara 
McCutchan finished with 12 kills 
and five blocks, while sophomores 
Kameron Cooper and Heidi Sierks 
had five stuffs.
After one day to rest, the Tritons 
were ready to head up north to 
Humboldt State Saturday evening. 
The Lumberjacks hit the bottom 
of the conference last season, but 
with a new coach and some new 
players, the Tritons didn’t expect an 
easy match.
“It was a tough match; that’s for 
sure, ” Luyties said. “We won the first 
game pretty easy. Then they came 
back and won the two next. The ral -
lies were long, but we did a good job 
defensively against a couple of their 
good players, and we did a good job 
blocking. ”
Middle Kameron Cooper led 
all players with a career-best nine 
blocks and opposite Caitlin Brenton 
followed with seven. Brenton also 
had eight kills and three service aces 
against the Lumberjacks.
The Tritons host CCAA oppo -
nents Cal State East Bay and Cal 
State Monterey Bay, on Oct. 11 and 
Oct.12 respectively at RIMAC Arena.
readers  can  contact
rit a  eritsland     reritsland@ucsd.edu  W OMEN' S  V OLLE YB ALL
The Los Angeles Clippers held 
training camp at RIMAC Arena last 
week from Oct. 1 to Oct. 5 in prepara -
tion for their 2013-2014 season.
The Clippers, featuring 2013 All-
Stars Chris Paul and Blake Griffin, 
had four days of practices and media 
events at RIMAC Arena, including 
an Inside the NBA segment hosted by 
Reggie Miller.
When asked about the campus, 
Griffin said he was impressed with the 
facilities.
“The gym’s great, ” Griffin said. 
“This is the perfect court for a situa -
tion like this, having so many baskets 
and so much space to work. It’s also a 
great area and right next to our hotel. ” 
With the exception of a large group 
of students waiting for autographs out -
side of RIMAC that garnered attention 
from campus police, the training camp 
went through without a hitch. UCSD 
Athletics Director Earl Edwards was 
pleased with how the camp turned out.“Having a team here of this cali -
ber, and especially a local team, is 
great exposure for us, ” UCSD Athletics 
Director Earl Edwards said. “We’ve 
heard over and over from the organiza -
tion about how fantastic our facilities, 
and it would be great to see them come 
back in the future. ”
This was the second time UCSD 
has hosted an NBA training camp 
after the Phoenix Suns spent a week 
at RIMAC last year. Edwards said 
Clippers Assistant Coach Alvin Gentry 
— former head coach in Phoenix — 
suggested camp be held at UCSD after 
coming to San Diego with the Suns. 
Last June, Chris Paul hosted his 
summer camp at RIMAC Arena and 
Edwards said the camp will again be 
held at UCSD next summer. 
Edwards also added that it’s likely 
UCSD may continue to host train -
ing camps for professional basketball 
teams in years to come.
PHOTO  BY JONAT HAN GAO/ GUARDIANBY   r a c h e l   u d a   sports  editor
readers  can  contact
rachel  uda     ruda@ucsd.edu  Clippers Train at RIMACPROF ESSIO NAL   SPORTS
The Los Angeles Clippers held a closed training 
camp at RIMAC last Monday through Friday.