A preliminary report of potential 
changes to the Sun God Festival 
announced that guest tickets would 
be eliminated for the upcoming 
event in May 2014, according to the 
A.S. Concerts and Events Sun God 
Task Force. 
The no-guest policy comes after the 
2013 Sun God Festival saw a 46-per -
cent rise in drug and alcohol-relat -
ed detox visits, a 129-percent rise in 
medical transports, a 55-percent rise 
in student conduct violations and a 
54-percent rise in arrests compared to 
the 2012 festival.
“Sun God 2014 almost didn’t hap -
pen, and Sun God 2015 is far, far from 
guaranteed, ” A.S. Concerts and Events 
Festivals Director Andrea Hsueh said.VOLUME 47, ISSUE 16  MONDAY , NOVEMBER 18, 2013  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
HEROES AT 
HOME
The UCSD men’s soccer 
team advanced to the 
third round of the NCAA 
playoffs, beating Chico 
State in a penalty kick 
shootout 5–4. Senior 
goalkeeper Josh Cohen 
made three penalty saves.
SA VING  ETHNIC  STUDIES
st a ying  a w are  in  college
opinion,  P age   4
MONDAY
H 70 L 55TUESDAY
H 68 L 54
WEDNESDAY
H 66 L 55THURSDAY
H 61 L 52
FORE CAST
VERBATIM
INSIDEStudent-run 
free clinics   
help reduce 
social health 
disparities 
and help 
further the community’s com -
mitment to public service.”  
- Nico Hemsley
JUSTICE IS SERVED
OPINION, PAGE 4
Comics  ........................... 2
Lights and Sirens  ............ 3
Quick Takes  .................... 4
Best of San Diego  ........... 6
Crossword  .................... 11
Sports  ........................... 12
“ALWIN SZETO / GUARDIAN
HULLABALOO 2013
The annual Hullabaloo festival, organized by A.S. Concerts and Events, took place on Friday , Nov . 15 as part of  this weekend’s Founders’ Day Celebration. 
Students gathered in Town Square and Matthews Quad for the free event, which featured food trucks, amusement rides and musical performances. 
Council Releases 
TPS Survey ResultsTRANSPORT A TIONSun God 
Eliminates 
Tickets for 
GuestsCAMPUS  LIFE
The change to the annual 
festival comes after large 
rises in drug and alcohol 
violations last year.
BY   a l l i e   k i e k h o f e r   senior'staff'writer
The A.S. Transportation Task Force will 
use the results to propose a fee referendum.
A.S. Council passed a resolution stating its 
support of a transportation fee referendum 
last Wednesday, which would help address 
nearly 12 months of debate over how to resolve a 
series of transportation changes proposed by UCSD 
Transportation Services. The choice to battle trans -
portation issues with a referendum comes as a result 
of responses to the “We Decide, Let’s Ride” campaign 
survey from earlier this quarter. 
The language of the referendum has yet to be 
finalized and approved by A.S. Council. The earliest a 
referendum could be presented to the student body is 
some time during Winter Quarter 2014.
There were a total of 2,621 respondents to the 
survey — roughly 36 percent live on campus, 27 per -
cent use the UCSD City Shuttles to get to campus and 
smaller percentages use other means.
The options listed on the survey included con -
verting some “S” parking spots into more expensive 
“Commuter S” spots, a $117-per-quarter, user-based 
fee, a $25 to $45 student-based fee to partially cover 
expenses or a $45 to $60 student-based fee to fully 
cover expenses.
“More than 60 percent marked either support 
or strongly support a fee referendum and so that 
See SURVEY , page 3FUSS ABOUT THE BUS
A.S. Council 
Transportation Task 
Force Survey Results
The A.S. Council Transportation Task Force released results from a campuswide 
transportation survey last week as part of their “Let’s Ride” Campaign to 
determine the effectiveness of a possible transportation fee referendum.
SURVEY
2,621 total respondents
173 graduate students 2,448 undergraduates
2,505 respondents
43.31%
use UCSD 
shuttles more 
than once a day! !
1. Increase “A” permit prices
2. Increase “B” permit prices
3. Reduce frequency of 
Campus Loop
2,224 respondents
36.29%
strongly agree with $45-60 
quarterly student fee for 

	
42.67%
Strongly disagree with 


See GUESTS , page 3
BY  g a b r i e l l a   f l e i s C h m a n   senior'staff'WRiterPHOTO BY YASMEEN ELSAWAF / GUARDIAN
THE BEST OF SAN DIEGO
FEATURES, P . 6
2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 18, 2013 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
ad name:  CW JD Ad1  size: ½ page H  —12.5" x 10.5"
publication:  CSU Fullerton - “Daily Titan”  pub date:  09/17/13
MD contact:  Andrea Bianchi  phone:  760-231-8286
We know that an incoming student
is more than just a set of test scores.
We admit those who demonstrate
an unyielding passion for becoming
outstanding lawyers .
Agustín Peña ’12
Ofﬁce of the San Diego County
District Attorney
Scan this code to learn more about Agustín
or visit  www.cwsl.edu/IamReady  
BIRDLAND By Rebekah Dyer
KN*COMICS By Khanh Nguyen
BRIEFSb y  helen  hejran    staff'writer     
▶ Typhoon Haiyan : UCSD student 
organizations Kaibigang Pilipin@ and 
the Pan-Asian Staff Association have 
established various fundraisers to aid 
the victims of Typhoon Haiyan. 
Kaibigang Pilipin@ collected 
canned food and clothing donations 
on Library W alk on Nov. 13, set up a 
donation bin for money and canned 
food in the UCSD Cross-Cultural 
Center and planned a Typhoon 
Relief Benefit Dance for Nov. 16 at 
Porter’s Pub. 
Tickets for the benefit sold at eight 
dollars presale and $10 at the door. Over 250 people attended Kaibigang 
Pilipin@’s benefit.
The Pan-Asian Staff Association 
has also been collecting items for 
donation. They suggested clothing, 
blankets, towels, flashlights, gloves, 
masks, infant formula and nonperish -
able food for donations.
The association will donate 
its items at its 8th annual Diversity 
Luncheon on Nov. 18.
▶ White House Info Event:  
UCSD’s San Diego Supercomputer 
Center’s projects from the Predictive Analytics Center of Excellence and 
Center for Large-scale Data Systems 
Research were recognized during 
the “Data to Knowledge to Action: 
Building New Partnerships” event 
held by the Obama Administration’s 
Networking and Information 
Technolog y R&D program.
Two SDSC projects, Benchmarking 
of Big Data and Sustainable 
Communities, were highlighted dur -
ing the meeting. 
The performance of Benchmarking 
of Big Data has been immensely 
improved in the last 20 years. Recently, the researchers have been investi -
gating different strategies for big 
data generation.
The Sustainable Communities 
project works on developing infra -
structure that can reduce power con -
sumption while improving quality 
of life and economic development in 
downtown San Diego.
“It is indeed gratifying to see that 
some of our best and brightest are 
being recognized at such a high level 
for their work in big data applications, ” 
SDSC Director Michael Norman said 
to UCSD News.
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2013, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do not 
necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, 
the University of California or Associated Students. The 
UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. Zoe was 
conceived on the sex couch.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Emily Ku 
Advertising Director  
Noelle Batema
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Page Layout
Amber Shroyer, Dorothy Van, Dorothy Lee, Natalia HerretLaira Martin
Zev Hurwitz
Allie Kiekhofer
Mekala Neelakantan
Aleksandra Konstantinovic
Lauren Koa
Kelvin Noronha
Rachel Uda
Stacey Chien
Vincent Pham
Jacqueline Kim
Brian Monroe
Taylor Sanderson
Sara Shroyer
Zoë McCracken
Jeffrey Lau
Jenny Park
Rachel Huang
Claire Yee
Philip Jia
Madeline MannEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
Deputy Managing Editor
News Editor
Associate News Editor
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
Lifestyle Editor
A&E Editor
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Associate Copy Editors
Web Editor
Training & Development
Copy Readers
Clara Chao, Rosina Garcia, Andrew Huang,
Susan Shamoon
Editorial Assistants
Rita Eritsland, Shelby NewallisNEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 18, 2013 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
was sort of our go-ahead to continue 
with the referendum, ” Revelle College 
Senator and Transportation Task Force 
member Soren Nelson said. “We’re 
confident that we have a lot of support 
behind the referendum. ”
Over 60 percent marked disagree 
or strongly disagree on a user-based 
fee — where students would pay an 
out-of-pocket price if they chose to 
ride shuttles within the Bus Zone — 
while responses for increased parking 
permit prices were more evenly dis -
tributed between strongly agree and 
strongly disagree.
Another question proposed reduc -
ing the frequency of Campus Loop 
buses in order to “preserve coverage to 
off-campus student housing. ” Over 75 percent of respondents marked agree 
or strongly agree.
However, in a letter to Vice 
Chancellor Matthews, this proposal 
was not discussed. The ideas sug -
gested in the letter were the insti -
tuting of the referendum and a 
Student Transportation Advisory 
Committee that would have over -
sight of these funds.
“In addition to the student advisory 
committee, we are looking at form -
ing a transportation advisory board 
that, in essence, would become a more 
effective governing body than what we 
have now, ” ASUCSD Moves Executive 
Director Kyle Heiskala said. “There is 
a dramatic need for a change; [admin -
istration] has expressed it, and the 
people who run transportation have 
discussed the ineffectiveness of the current committee. ”
In moving forward with these pro -
posals, there are many governing bod -
ies that must approve of them before 
they are finalized in a vote, which A.S. 
President and Transportation Task 
Force member Andy Buselt said the 
task force hopes will be no later than 
Winter Quarter 2014.
“ A referendum requires Council to 
approve it, GSA to approve it and all 
the administrative bodies to approve 
it, but first and foremost, we want to 
be transparent that referendum is the 
direction that we want to go, ” Buselt 
said. “The general takeaway is that 
overall, folks were very receptive to 
having a referendum. ”
If you have questions, ideas or input on Sun God Festival 
2014, attend a Sun God Festival Open Forum. Join fellow 
students in creating a festival that's better than any other! 
For more information, contact avpconcerts@ucsd.edu or visit asce.ucsd.eduSUN GOD FESTIVALOPEN FORUMS
November 21 @ 12:30pm-2:30pm
Green Table Room, PC West&November 20 @ 3pm-4pm
Red Shoe Room, PC WestA.S. Council Hopes to Introduce a Fee Referendum This Winter
▶ SURVEY ,  from page 1
readers'can'contact
gabriella  fleischman     gfleisch@ucsd.edu'LIGHTS & SIRENSLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edu.
According to the report, non-stu -
dent guests account for over one-third 
of those admitted to detox facilities. 
Guest tickets, which sold for $65, 
accounted for 3,000 of the roughly 
20,000 people who attended Sun God 
in 2013.
“The 3,000 [non-student guests] 
at the festival last year represented a 
disproportionate amount of risks, ” A.S. 
Associate Vice President of Concerts 
and Events Sarah Harley said.  We 
believe the elimination [of guest tick -
ets] will help to reduce these risks. ”
The Sun God Task Force was estab -
lished in September to respond to the rise in health and safety problems in 
2013. The task force’s report offers 
ways to reduce heavy drinking and 
student detainments at the event.
“We find ourselves in a position 
where we have exhausted all of our 
resources in terms of police, staffing, 
security, and medical assistance, and 
we’re at the point where we’re reach -
ing unsustainable [levels], ” Hsueh said. 
“We’re taking the first step so some -
thing doesn’t happen so that we have 
a Sun God. ”
Other suggestions included in the 
report are altering the wristbands to 
make them more difficult to remove 
and checking student IDs upon entry.
“ All of our decisions were made with health and safety as the biggest 
concern, ” A.S. President Andy Buselt 
said. “It’s going to enable us to have a 
festival that’s more student-centered 
than ever before. ”
The task force also plans to make 
use of a campuswide survey, emailed 
out by ASCE, to gauge students’ priori -
ties with regard to the event.
“We’re going to rely a lot on stu -
dent input, ” Hsueh said. “We want to 
be able to collaborate and work more 
closely with our peers […] to discuss 
the issues at hand and what we can do 
to solve them. ”Non-Student Guests Account for Over One Third of  Violations
▶ GUESTS,  from page 1
readers'can'contact
allie  kiekhofer     akiekhof@ucsd.edu'
LIKE US ON FACEBOOK
WWW.FACEBOOK.COM/UCSDGUARDIAN
Friday, Nov. 8
5:56 p.m.: Information
▶Three students were being loud in 
Price Center and had possibly been 
drinking. Information only.
6:18 p.m.: Non-injury Accident
▶Two private vehicles collided in Lot 
602. Report taken.
11:20 p.m.: Traffic Stop
▶A female was driving the wrong 
way on a divided highway. Closed by 
adult citation.
Saturday, Nov. 9
12:19 p.m.: Animal Call
▶A dog was locked in a car near the 
Telemedicine Building for a couple 
hours.  Gone on arrival.
▶The subject refused to leave a group 
meeting in the Medical Teaching 
Facility after being asked to leave and 
told not to attend on other occasions. 
Stay Away Order issued.
Sunday, Nov. 10
2:56 a.m.: Citizen Contact
▶Subjects were tampering with a 
second floor window in the Village. 
Checks OK.
4:20 p.m.: Citizen Contact
▶A group of bikers were trick jumping 
near the Leichtag Biomedical Building.  
Information only.
10:02 p.m.: Injury
▶A cyclist crashed and suffered face 
injuries. Transported to hospital.
Monday, Nov 11
11:09 p.m.: Noise Disturbance
▶Subjects reported hearing banging 
noises on the walls of the North Mesa 
Apartments. Quiet on arrival.
Tuesday, Nov. 12
12:33 a.m.: Vandalism
▶Security guards caught a male subject 
vandalizing the Moores Cancer Center 
while under the influence. Closed by 
adult arrest.7:50 a.m.: Injury
▶An adult male fell off his skateboard 
and possibly dislocated his knee. 
Transported to hospital. 
11:15 a.m.: Welfare Check
▶A juvenile female was found on cam -
pus and could not remember how she 
got here. Returned to parents.
5 p.m. to 8:30 a.m.: V andalism to 
Vehicle
▶A UC electric cart was damaged, 
costing an estimated $500. Report 
taken.
Wednesday, Nov. 13
9:03 a.m.: Vandalism
▶Lab equipment wires were cut in the 
Natural Sciences Building. Information 
only.
6:48 p.m.: Injury
▶An adult female was injured dur -
ing rugby practice at Muir Field. 
Transported to hospital.
6:56 p.m.: Citizen Contact 
▶The subject received unwanted 
text messages and filed a report to 
the San Diego Police Department. 
Information only.
Thursday, Nov. 14
12:02 a.m.: Citizen Contact
▶Candles were burning in the Earth 
Hall common area. Information only.
4:58 a.m.: Trespass
▶Two males were seen climbing 
a back wall from a parking lot into 
the Canyonview Pool area. Gone on 
arrival. 
11:45 a.m.: Accident
▶A UC vehicle collided with a pri -
vate vehicle resulting in injuries. 
Report taken.
5:35 p.m.: Injury
▶An adult female fell down the stairs 
at Price Center, injuring her knee. 
Transported to hospital.
 — ANDREW HUANG
Staff WriterOPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
LAUREN KOA
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 18, 2013 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
QUICK  T AKESELECTRONIC CIGARETTES HAVE STIRRED CONTROVERSY AS A POPULAR, EASY-ACCESS PRODUCT THAT ALLOWS 
USERS TO “VAPE” NICOTINE MIXED WITH FLAVOR LIQUID, RATHER THAN SMOKE TRADITIONAL TOBACCO.In light of the California State Universities’ 
recent cutbacks within ethnic studies 
programs, the question of whether ethnic 
studies is still a viable and integral part of a 
well-rounded higher education resurfaces. 
In addition to a now-limited selection of 
classes, major curricula changes and 
professor resignations, a 2012 USA 
Today article explained that UC 
Santa Cruz and UC Berkeley have 
removed or reduced funding in 
their ethnic studies programs, 
respectively. 
The paring back of ethnic 
studies programs is a 
worrying nationwide 
trend, suggesting that 
far too many universities 
undervalue the discipline 
and the subject as a whole, 
as well as ignoring racism 
and discrimination still 
prevalent in society. 
Ethnic studies, the inter -
disciplinary study of race and 
racialized people in a larger 
societal context, is particularly focused on how 
the treatment of historically marginalized people 
affects social dynamics of the United States. In 
California public universities in particular, diver -
sity among the student population is key to a 
successful institution. Ethnic studies programs are 
crucial to combating intolerance and discrimina -
tory cultural practices and should not be elimi -nated or scaled down in public universities.
The common argument against ethnic stud -
ies states that the courses draw color lines where 
none existed before. However, this argument is 
based on the rather naive assumption that racism 
no longer exists or is much improved from the 
1960s, when those studies emerged. A 2013 LA 
Times article explained that the “the initial intent 
of the [CSU system’s] programs was to increase 
the numbers of students and professors of color 
and expand historical perspectives. ” In the face 
of our increasingly diverse and pluralistic society, 
opponents argue that the major teaches skills that 
are no longer applicable. 
Y et despite these claims of an equitable society, 
a June 2013 Guardian UK article reported “the gap 
between black and white unemployment in the U.S. 
is roughly the same as it was in 1963. ” The num -
bers suggest that issues regarding race still linger 
in the United States. Additionally, uproar caused 
by the recent verdict of the Trayvon Martin case 
reveals that racism is still an important issue in 
American society. Given these notable issues, ethnic 
studies courses are still applicable and necessary 
in universities. Moreover, the National Education 
Association addressed this concern directly, finding 
that “rather than being divisive, ethnic studies helps 
students to bridge differences that already exist in 
experiences and perspectives. ”
Although the UC system, along with many 
other public institutions of higher educa -
tion, stresses the importance of diversity, the 
actions of a few students reveal that there is 
still racism and intolerance on campuses. After B Y alia  bales !staff!writer
illustra tion   b y  annie  liuMobilize 
Medical 
Students in 
Free Clinics
E-cigarette users get their nicotine fix with -
out the other toxins found in tobacco, but there 
hasn’t been any research to investigate what 
vaporizing these chemicals will do in the long 
run. What started out as a healthier alternative 
to traditional cigarettes is quickly becoming an 
accepted aid in kicking the habit altogether, but 
without a thorough evaluation of the extended 
use of electronic cigarettes, they cannot be pro -
moted as a reliable means towards complete ces -
sation from tobacco.
Short-term tests done by Chair of the 
European Respiratory Society Control 
Committee Christina Gratziou revealed that use 
of the e-cigarettes led to an “immediate rise in 
airway resistance” which can affect users’ ability 
to breathe through their lungs. Longer trials are 
required to know whether these negative effects 
become permanent after consistent use.
Aside from the risk caused by liquid nico -
tine, quality control issues in the manufacturing 
of e-cigarettes can prove dangerous as well. In 
a study done by the Public Library of Science, 
amounts of metals, silicate beads and nanopar -
ticles were found in the vapor that users inhaled, 
and sometimes, these levels were even higher 
than in tobacco. As an unregulated product, pro -
duction standards differ in each device, introduc -
ing varying amounts of these toxins.
Smokers quit so they can avoid the dangers 
associated with the activity, but e-cigarettes may 
simply replace the dangers of smoking with an 
entirely new set of risks. Comprehensive trials 
are needed to measure whether electronic ciga -
rettes will damage users’ health just like tobacco 
does. Until further testing is done, smokers 
should not depend on e-cigarettes as a healthy 
alternative.
—  DEREK UNG
Contributing WriterElectronic Cigarettes Are a Healthier 
and Successful Smoking AlternativeGovernment Regulations Are Necessary 
To Protect E-Cigarette Users’ HealthUntil Long-Term Effects Are Clear, 
Vaping Cannot Be Labeled As Safe
Every month in the United States, cigarette 
smoking is responsible for ending over 35,000 
lives. It is not only a high cause of death, but a 
highly preventable one. When it comes down to it, 
though, most smokers just can’t quit. A potential 
lifesaver, e-cigarettes, provides a new, less harmful 
alternative to traditional cigarettes. 
Though not marketed as a smoking cessation 
aid, e-cigarettes have proved effective in reducing 
and eliminating cigarette smoking habits. University 
of Catania professor Riccardo Polosa monitored the 
smoking habits of 40 “hardcore” cigarette smokers 
after giving them e-cigarettes. In six months, the 
participants cut their cigarette consumption in half, 
and almost a quarter of them switched to e-cigs and 
quit cigarettes altogether. 
Packed with toxins and carcinogens, cigarettes 
have been linked with lung cancer, while e-cigarettes 
contain only trace amounts of potentially harm -
ful chemicals. Moreover, the leading chemical of 
health concern in the e-cigarette, propylene glycol, 
is a main ingredient in an openly marketed smok -
ing cessation product, NICORETTE QuickMist. 
William Godshall of Smokefree Pennsylvania ranks 
e-cigs as less than a two out of 100 on a harm scale 
where nicotine gum and lozenges are ranked num -
ber one and smoking 100.
Cigarettes are filled with tobacco smoke, but 
e-cigs are vapor-filled, allowing users to choose 
from a variety of flavors and control their nicotine 
consumption. Users’ cravings are satisfied, and the 
most glaring risks of regular cigarettes — as well 
as the collateral damage caused by secondhand 
tobacco smoke — are eliminated
With more reward for less risk, e-cigarettes are 
a great choice for smokers who are interested in 
prolonging their lives but not necessarily inter -
ested in reducing their nicotine-induced pleasure. 
— MIKAYLA MURRY  
Contributing WriterRegardless of how beneficial electronic ciga -
rettes may or may not be, the government needs 
to keep a tighter control on the sale of electronic 
cigarettes. The production of e-cigarettes is still 
unregulated, and the chance of youth picking up 
this habit is a high risk. 
The side effects of e-cigarettes are still rela -
tively unknown, while its components are com -
pletely unregulated. Electronic cigarettes contain 
traces of nicotine and various flavored liquids, 
called “e-juice, ” that sellers often brew themselves. 
According to a CBS 8 San Diego article written 
on Nov. 11, many sellers actually brew their own 
e-juice instead of buying from well-known suppli -
ers. Because of the unregulated nature of the indus -
try, anyone can go online to order or sell e-cigarette 
components and ingredients without being subject 
to any health regulations or standards.
Those fighting against the mass production of 
electronic cigarettes, including the Food and Drug 
Administration, the American Cancer Society 
and the Center for Tobacco-Free Kids argue that 
e-cigarettes could be a gateway for younger people 
to become nicotine addicts. In a 2012 survey by 
the Center for Disease Control, 2.8 percent of high 
schoolers said they had tried e-cigarettes — a 195 
percent increase from the previous year. Because 
e-cigarettes are marketed as less harmful than actual 
cigarettes, the possibility of a younger generation 
picking up the habit is a risk.
To the nicotine addict trying to quit or the 
curious adolescent, e-cigarettes appear to be an 
appealing option. But until the government sets 
regulations, the e-cigarette industry continues to act 
as a creative free-for-all —  and meanwhile, users are 
subject to health risks they may not be aware of. At 
the end of the day, the government is accountable to 
ensure the safety of e-cigarette users.
— SHARON LAY  
Staff Writer
 Culture Shock
California public universities must support faltering 
ethnic studies programs to combat racial intolerance and 
foster cultural understanding.
See ETHNIC STUDIES , page 5As a research university 
committed to community 
engagement and public 
service, UCSD has a mission to help 
the underserved. There is a well-
documented body of research show -
ing that there are social factors like 
education, environment and income 
that predict worse health outcomes 
and higher incidence of chronic dis -
ease. Student-run free clinics — like 
the four operated by UCSD — help 
reduce social health disparities and 
further the community’s commit -
ment to public service.
There are social factors related 
to higher incidence of chronic dis -
ease among a population, which 
are called social determinants of 
health. These factors are beyond 
genetic predisposition and indi -
vidual behavior — they are about 
the contexts that determine health 
outcomes. Two of the most common 
social determinants of health are 
lower income and education levels. 
Free clinics target these underserved 
populations and offer healthcare 
services where there is need. Greater 
access to primary care will lead to 
greater preventive action and less 
chronic disease.
However, some worry that 
student-run clinics offer lower-qual -
ity care. Medical students are not 
licensed physicians, yet they run the 
clinics. This leads people to worry 
that student-run clinics offer lower-
quality care and perpetuate the 
stereotype that low-income families 
should get lower quality care or be 
“practice” for aspiring doctors. But 
while medical students are given a 
lot of autonomy to run the clinics, 
they are still overseen by licensed 
physicians who make official diag -
noses and file prescriptions. 
Student autonomy in free clin -
ics is an important part of the 
educational process. Empowering 
students with the freedom to run a 
clinic will motivate them to put in 
their best effort. Medical students 
have enough supervision to learn 
from their mistakes, which offers 
students real-world experience early 
on in their education. This experi -
ence will help them become better 
practitioners and may also inspire 
them to work with the underserved 
in the future.
Student-run clinics are also more 
sustainable than other options. They 
are funded by medical schools, 
as opposed to relying on funding 
from religious institutions, as many 
other free-clinics in the past have. 
Student-run clinics also have a 
constant supply of eager volunteers. 
UCSD’s clinic system has an inter -
view process for undergraduate vol -
unteers, who are primarily involved 
in clerical work. It’s an ideal set-up 
for medical schools, who get the 
opportunity to provide a real-world 
educational experience for their 
students and work to reduce health 
disparities on a societal level.  
While not perfect, student-run 
free clinics are a sustainable solution 
to social health disparities. Greater 
access to primary care through free 
clinics will reduce health disparities 
for underserved communities and 
offer them awareness about lifestyle 
changes like greater nutrition intake, 
tobacco cessation and having a more 
active lifestyle that will decrease the 
prevalence of chronic disease.ETHNIC
NICO  HEMSLEY  NAHEMSLEY@ucsd.eduJUSTICE   IS   SER VED
OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 18, 2013 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
To start your transformation, get in touch today. 310.568.2366 or 866.503.5467 
GSEPRECRUITMENT PEPPERDINEEDU sGSEPPEPPERDINEEDUTo transform lives. 
Her game plan: A  Master 
of Arts in Education 
from Pepperdine.jane’sambition:SOLVE FOR X By Philip Jia
LETTER  TO  THE  EDITOR
UCLA ’s “ Asians in the Library” 
YouTube video or UCSD’s very 
own “Compton Cookout, ” the 
Universities of California learned 
from their mistake and imple -
mented a mandatory ethnic stud -
ies graduation requirement with 
the effort to teach students how 
to combat racism. These actions 
helped foster a better community 
on these campuses. 
While the UC system’s com -
mitment to diversity and equal 
representation in the classroom are 
the first steps to combating rac -
ism, the 2011 National Education 
Association’s research review on 
the “ Academic and Social Value of Ethnic Studies” explained that 
just simply having an ethnically or 
racially diverse population has very 
little effect on students’ attitudes 
towards difference  “in contrast with 
curricula that teach directly about 
racism, ” which does. Diversity class -
es are far more effective at bridging 
the cultural divide compared to 
mere racial quotas.  
The same review reported “that 
participation in diversity experi -
ences is ‘signiﬁcantly and positively 
related to cognitive development’” 
because differing views and experi -
ences forces students to think in dif -
ferent and perhaps more productive 
ways. If higher education’s purpose 
is to provide and cultivate the next 
leaders and innovators of America, students attending these universities 
need to be able to not only think on 
more complex levels but be tolerant 
and accepting of those who are dif -
ferent — two issues that ethnic stud -
ies courses tackle.
As long as diversity still exists 
in this country, knowledge of the 
ways to have intelligent, productive 
conversations among those with 
different ethnic histories are vital 
to producing a nation that is toler -
ant and non-discriminatory. Public 
universities should not cut back on 
ethnic studies programs in order to 
help combat intolerance on a larger 
social level.Diverse Student Bodies Need to Learn Culture in Class SettingsDear Editor, 
San Diego law enforcement 
agencies established a facial recog -
nition system using 133 Galaxy tab -
lets and smartphones since January 
2013. The sheriff ’s department and 
San Diego Police Department have 
the most devices, with 64 and 27 
devices, respectively. 
Sheriff ’s Commander David 
Myers said the tablets and smart -
phones are used when an officer 
thinks someone is lying about who 
they are: “I’m sure there’s a lot of 
people out there who have lied to 
me, and because nothing came up 
in the system, I had to let them go. 
Justice was not served.”
“Photographs are neutral — you 
can’t say it’s racist when a camera 
is taking a neutral picture of some -
one, ” said Rob Halverson, a Chula 
Vista officer. 
The most active single user is a 
San Diego State University police 
officer who used his device 224 
times from January to Oct. 30, 2013 
— in a totally neutral manner, of 
course!
New York’s controversial stop-
and-frisk policy showed only a 3 
percent conviction rate between 
2009 and 2012, according to a 
report by the New York Attorney 
General. 2,400,000 stops by the 
New York Police Department 
resulted in 150,000 arrests, but 
only 75,000 led to a conviction or a guilty plea. NYPD’s policy was 
ruled unconstitutional earlier this 
year, yet the administration of out -
going mayor Michael Bloomberg 
has filed an appeal. 
Bloomberg’s term as mayor will 
end on Dec. 31. The newly elected 
mayor, Bill de Blasio, is an opponent 
of the policy and has pledged to 
replace the police chief, Ray Kelly. 
“The attorney general’s report 
has confirmed what young men of 
color have known for years — that 
the Bloomberg administration’s 
stop-and-frisk crusade is targeting 
innocent people and is pathetically 
ineffective and inefficient in appre -
hending criminals, ” New Y ork Civil 
Liberties Union executive director 
Donna Lieberman said. 
The Foreign Intelligence 
Surveillance Improvements Act, 
promoted by Dianne Feinstein, the 
California Democrat who chairs 
the Senate Intelligence Committee, 
would both make permanent a 
loophole permitting the National 
Security Agency to search for 
Americans’ identifying information 
without a warrant.  
And her proposed act might 
allow the FBI, the DEA and other 
law enforcement agencies to do the 
same wrong thing. 
I may vote for Senator Elizabeth 
Warren for president and Carl 
DeMaio for congress in November 
of next year. Go Tritons — I should 
live so long! 
— Richard Thompson  
Alumnus ’83 Law Enforcement Needs to 
Improve Search Methods
 The Guardian welcomes letters from its readers. All letters must be addressed, and written, to the 
editor of the Guardian. Letters are limited to 500 words, and all letters must include the writer’s 
name, college and year, department or city of residence. A maximum of three signatories per 
letter is permitted. The Guardian Editorial Board reserves the right to edit for length, accuracy, 
clarity and civility. The Editorial Board reserves the right to reject letters for publication. 
Due to the volume of mail we receive, we do not confirm receipt or publication of a letter.   
email: opinion@ucsdguardian.org▶ ETHNIC STUDIES,  from page 4
readers&can&contact
alia  bales     abales@ucsd.edu&FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
ST ACEY  CHIEN
FEATURES@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
THE BEST OF SAN DIEGO6
WHEN FAMILY IS IN TOWN...
BREAKFAST HIKINGMUSEUMSDINNER
Tucked into a corner on 30th 
street in South Park, Big Kitch -
en is one of the best breakfast 
diners in the county. Once 
inside, be prepared to bump el -
bows (literally) with your fellow 
customers — seating is closely 
packed — and make small 
talk with staff.  Aside from the 
colloquial vibe from the people, 
there are knick-knacks all over 
the walls, including bumper 
stickers, photos and signs that 
tout the diner’s history. Big 
Kitchen’s menu features every -
thing from biscuits and gravy 
to a world-famous plate-sized 
pancake. It’s big. So big, that if 
you can ﬁnish two, the second 
pancake is free.
— Brian MonroeLocated in Poway, about half an 
hour from UCSD, Mt. Woodson 
offers two challenging trails to 
intrepid hikers. The ﬁrst, and most 
popular, is about eight miles of 
steady uphill hiking, so plan for a 
four-hour outing, and bring lots of 
water. The second trail is a paved 
service road that may be shorter 
but is no less challenging with its 
steep incline. Whichever way you 
go, you’ll ﬁnd yourself amongst 
picturesque views of San Diego 
that stretch all the way to the 
ocean on a clear day. Best of all, 
the infamous Potato Chip Rock 
perches on top of Mt. Woodson, 
and if you’re willing to wait in 
line, you can get a photo souvenir 
of your daring trek.
— Aleksandra KonstantinovicIf you’ve got the kind of family 
where simple decision-making 
turns into blood-curdling argu -
ments, Balboa Park’s 17 muse -
ums should appease all strong 
personalities. The Timken Mu -
seum of Art is always free, and 
each Tuesday, one of the other 
museums has free entry if you 
bring your UCSD student ID. Top 
museum picks include the Air 
and Space Museum and the San 
Diego Museum of Man, which 
is currently featuring a BEERol -
ogy exhibit about the history of 
beer in San Diego and around 
the world. If even the muse -
ums won’t quell your family’s 
bickering, take a walk around 
the Botanical Building, wander 
the koi ponds or check out Sun 
God artist Niki de Saint Phalle’s 
sculpture “Poet and Muse,” 
located in front of the Mingei 
Museum of International Art.
— Rachel HuangJust a quick drive down Mi -
ramar Road, Punjabi Tandoor 
is every UCSD student’s go-to 
stop for Indian food. The pric -
es are low, and the portions 
are plentiful at this popular 
hole in the wall, which always 
attracts a crowd. Be warned, 
though; Punjabi Tandoor has 
very little in-restaurant seat -
ing, so all meals — offered 
on Styrofoam plates and 
in to-go containers — will 
need to be taken outside. The 
chicken tikka masala and the 
rogan josh, a lamb curry, are 
among the favorites at the 
family-owned and -operated 
restaurant. Add a serving of 
naan for $1.95, along with 
a cup of complimentary 
rice pudding, and you’ll be 
stuffed. 
— Rachel Uda3003 Grape St., South Park
Mon. - Sun. 8 a.m. to 2 p.m.14644 Lake Poway Rd., Poway
Sunrise to sunsetFor hours & locations, visit
www.balboapark.org9235 Activity Rd., Miramar
Mon. - Sat. 11 a.m. to 10 p.m.
Sun. 5 p.m. to 9 p.m.
The Cottage (Downtown La Jolla)
Snooze, an A.M. eatery (Hillcrest)
Broken Yolk Cafe (Paciﬁc Beach)
Whisknladle (La Jolla) Iron Mountain Trail (Poway)
Three Sisters Falls (Julian)
Los Peñasquitos Canyon Preserve 
(Mira Mesa)
Torrey Pines State Natural Reserve 
(La Jolla)Niki de Saint Phalle sculpture gar -
den in Kit Carson Park (Escondido)
Chicano Park (Barrio Logan)
Museum of Contemporary Art (La 
Jolla)
USS Midway Museum (Downtown 
San Diego)Phil’s BBQ (Point Loma)
Slater’s 50/50 (Liberty Station)
Lucha Libre (Mission Hills)Big 
Kitchen 
CafeMt. WoodsonBalboa ParkPunjabi 
Tandoor
Runners-upRunners-upRunners-up
Runners-up
PHOTO BY 
BRIAN MONROE/
GUARDIAN
PHOTO BY TAYLOR SANDERSON / GUARDIAN
PHOTO COURTESTY ALEKSANDRA KONSTANTINOVIC
PHOTO BY BRIAN MONROE / GUARDIANTHE BEST OF SAN DIEGO7
ON A DATE...
COFFEE
DRINKSBEACHSIGHTSEEING
Bird Rock Coffee Roasters, 
located in almost-kitschy Bird 
Rock (a residential beach town 
just north of PB), offers the 
perfect combination of a cozy 
coffee house, homey decor — 
art from the local elementary 
school dons the walls — and 
beachy air, not to mention some 
of the best coffee you’ll ﬁnd in 
San Diego, and maybe even 
California. Bird Rock practices 
direct trade, so it communi -
cates with coffee farmers and 
sends extra proﬁts their way in 
the case of a high-rated roast. 
Whether or not you’re a coffee 
nerd, Bird Rock’s got something 
for you: coffee die-hards can 
choose from a variety of black 
coffees, sourced from Kenya, 
Guatamala, Honduras and El 
Salvador, while those who are 
still making the transition away 
from Starbucks can grab a re -
ally good latte.
— Allie KiekhoferJust three or four bus stops 
away from campus on the MTS 
201/202 SuperLoop you’ll ﬁnd 
some of the cheapest — and 
decent enough — sushi in all of 
San Diego. KI Sushi’s happy hour 
deal includes 30 percent off all 
specialty rolls, so the cheaper 
ones are a real steal. Try the 
Crazy Boy, a deep-fried California 
roll sliced vertically into spears, 
only $5 for six surprisingly ﬁlling 
pieces. KI Sushi’s also popular for 
its sake bombs — be ready for 
happy hour to get kind of noisy 
— and it’s been known to only ID 
the ﬁrst guest who orders alco -
hol. Do with that knowledge what 
you will.
— Dorothy VanIf you’re tired of sitting on the 
sand or get too chilly in the 
water but still want to experi -
ence fantastic beach scenery, 
grab your date and take the MTS 
Route 30 down to Paciﬁc Beach, 
where you can rent a beach 
cruiser for only $20 for a day. 
Paciﬁc Beach Cruisers is located 
on Garnet Avenue between 
Gresham and Haines. Once 
you’ve got your bike, you’re free 
to roam all of PB, including three 
miles of bike paths up and down 
the coast. Luckily, if you get 
tired of biking, you’re still in PB, 
with ice cream shops and bars 
galore, so ﬁnding somewhere to 
take a snack break should be a 
cinch.
— Stacey ChienAs you drive across the 
sweeping arc of the 2.1-mile-
long, 200-foot high San Diego-
Coronado Bridge, the view of 
Coronado Island waiting below 
already looks too pristine to 
be real. Walking around past 
the pristine houses, mile-wide 
streets with park-sized street 
dividers and extravagant, late 
19th-century architecture, you 
might feel like anything you 
touch will disintegrate into 
a million pieces. Coronado’s 
full of kitschy souvenir shops 
and overpriced artisan candy 
shops you want to think you’re 
too good to shop at, even 
though you know you’ll come 
home with a $5 block of fudge 
anyway. Make sure to check 
out the historic Hotel del Coro -
nado, which opened in 1888 
to become one of the world’s 
ﬁrst luxury resort hotels and, 
later, the site of “Some Like it 
Hot,” the iconic 1959 Marilyn 
Monroe comedy 
— Taylor Sanderson5627 La Jolla Blvd., Bird Rock
Mon. - Fri. 6 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Sat., Sun. 6:30 a.m. to 6 p.m.
8650 Genesee Ave., UTC
Happy Hour:
Mon. - Fri. 4 p.m. to 6 p.m.
Sat., Sun. 12 p.m. to 5 p.m.
Midnight Happy Hour:
Thurs. - Sat. 10 p.m. to 12 a.m.1400 Garnet Ave., Paciﬁc Beach
Mon. - Sun. 7 a.m. to 10 p.m.
Lestat’s Coffee House (Normal 
Heights)
Twiggs Bakery & Coffeehouse 
(University Heights)
The Living Room Cafe and Bistro 
(Old Town)
Cafe Virtuoso (Barrio Logan)Craft & Commerce (Little Italy)
El Dorado Cocktail Lounge 
(Downtown)
Blueﬁn Fusion (UTC)La Jolla Shores
Solana Beach
Black’s Beach
WindanseaPhil’s BBQ (Point Loma)
Slater’s 50/50 (Liberty Station)
Lucha Libre (Mission Hills)Bird Rock 
Coffee 
Roasters
KI Sushi & 
Sake BarBike the 
beach with 
PB CruisersCoronado 
Island
Runners-up
Runners-up Runners-up
PHOTO BY BRIAN MONROE / GUARDIAN
PHOTO BY TAYLOR SANDERSON / GUARDIANPHOTO BY JAVIER ARMSTRONG / GUARDIAN
PHOTO COURTESY SARA SHROYER
DESIGN BY SARA SHROYER8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 18, 2013 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEATURES
WITH FRIENDS...
BRUNCH
TACOSTHRIFTINGBAR TRIVIA
Hash House A Go Go is a sur -
real experience. With portion 
sizes that’ll make you feel 
smaller than an American Girl 
Doll, a trip to Hash House is not 
to be taken lightly — fasting 
the day beforehand is some -
thing to seriously consider. 
Pancakes come on platters 
and are around the size of a 
toddler; eggs and potatoes 
come in skillets that could also 
be used as anchors. Biscuits 
look more like small loaves 
of bread with a shrub-sized 
sprig of rosemary sticking out 
the top, and they’re damned 
good. Bring a friend or three 
along to split some dishes, or 
else be prepared to bring home 
another full day’s worth of left -
overs — to be expected for the 
roughly $15 price tag attached 
to most items on the menu.
— Allie KiekhoferWe know what you’re think -
ing — the best tacos in all of 
San Diego can be found on a 
practically residential street in 
North PB? But to the skeptics, 
we say, just go try it. Oscar’s is a 
hole-in-the-wall, cash-only joint 
crammed next to a dive bar, with 
less square footage than your 
dorm and fewer seats than most 
dining room tables. The menu is 
limited, but everything on it is to 
die for. Oscar’s gets all the little 
things right: They melt cheese 
onto their tortillas before they ﬁll 
‘em with food so that you won’t 
get any cold, unmelted shreds, 
and the avocado they scoop onto 
some of their tacos is perfectly 
creamy every time. Both the 
smoked ﬁsh and spicy shrimp 
tacos pack some serious ﬂavor, 
or, if tortillas hold you back, go 
straight for the cup of shrimp 
ceviche. Don’t waste your time 
with the burritos — they’re the 
size of a taco but a different 
shape and a dollar more.
— Claire YeeOnce you discover thrifting — and 
if you haven’t, get on it — there 
are a few kinds of thrift stores 
you’ll ﬁnd. There’s the faux-
upscale kind that sells mainly 
clothing from mid-range stores 
two or three years ago (think Urban 
Outﬁtters marked down around 
$10 from retail price). There’s the 
basically-a-warehouse kind that’s 
ﬁlled with piles of giant ugly ’80s 
sweaters, all of which smell like 
your grandparents’ house, for 
g$2 apiece. Flashbacks strikes a 
delicate balance between these 
two: It’s got a selection of clothing 
that’s vintage and fairly eclectic, 
but pieces tend not to be too gaudy 
— many are trendy and totally 
wearable. Flashbacks has been 
home to some to-die-for ’50s, 
’60s and ’70s frocks, and if you’re 
quick, you might lucky enough to 
snag one.
— Zoe McCrackenWith around 10 different 
pizzas to choose from every 
week, even more San Diego 
craft brews on tap — or Bud 
Light and lambic, for your 
less adventurous friends — 
and a staff of bartenders so 
friendly they seem like they’re 
straight out of a sitcom, Ciro’s 
Pizzeria and Beerhouse on 
Garnet in PB is the ultimate 
place to bring your friends 
for trivia. The bar hosts trivia 
nights twice a week, on Tues -
days and Thursday evenings. 
Correctly answering a chal -
lenge question in the middle 
of the trivia session will earn 
a free pitcher of beer for you 
and your teammates, and the 
top-scoring teams at the end 
of the night win gift cards 
to Ciro’s — so do well, and 
you’ll be back for sure.
— Allie Kiekhofer3628 5th Ave., Hillcrest 
Mon. - Sun. 7:30 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Tues. - Sun. 5:30 p.m. to 9 p.m.703 Turquoise St., North PB
Sun. - Thurs. 10 a.m. to 9 p.m.
Sat. - Sun. 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.3847 5th Ave., Hillcrest
Mon. - Sat. 10 a.m. to 9 p.m.
Sun. 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. 967 Garnet Ave., Paciﬁc Beach
Sun. - Tues. 11 a.m. to 12 a.m.
Wed. - Sat. 11 a.m. to 2 a.m.
Leilani’s Cafe (Paciﬁc Beach)
Richard Walker’s (Downtown)
Brockton Villa Restaurant (La Jolla)
Studio Diner (Kearney Mesa)Las Cuatro Milpas (Barrio Logan)
Rigoberto’s Taco Shop (La Jolla)
El Zarape (University Heights)Amvets Thrift Store (Middletown)
Buffalo Exchange (Hillcrest, Paciﬁc 
Beach)
Kobey’s Swap Meet (Midway)
Goodwill Industries (Paciﬁc Beach)
Thrift Trader (North Park)
Frock You Vintage Clothing (North 
Park)The Loft (UCSD)
Salt & Cleaver (Hillcrest)
Whistle Stop Bar (North Park)
The Blarney Stone Pub 
(Clairemont)Hash House 
A Go GoOscar’s 
Mexican 
SeafoodFlashbacks 
Recycled 
FashionsCiro’s 
Pizzeria & 
Beerhouse
Runners-upRunners-upRunners-up
Runners-upTHE BEST OF SAN DIEGO, CONTINUED...
PHOTO BY ERIK ROBERTS / GUARDIAN
PHOTO BY JACI LERNER / GUARDIAN
PHOTO BY DANIEL CADDELL / GUARDIAN FILEPHOTO BY 
CLAIRE YEE/
GUARDIAN
SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 18, 2013 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
half with neither team’s lead ever 
reaching double digits. The Tritons led 
30–25 at halftime behind a strong 10 
points from Seto.
“We did a lot of nice things 
today, ” second-year head coach Heidi 
V anDerveer said. “We had a lot of 
good energy from everyone. ”
In the second half, UCSD lost their 
halftime lead when the Coyotes went 
on a 13–6 run. A successful three-
point attempt and layup by Seto — 
who finished with a career-high 21 
points to go with five assists and four 
steals — with 10 minutes to play, gave 
the Tritons the lead for good.
Seto starts this season at shooting 
guard. Senior Stephanie Y ano, who 
red-shirted last season due to an inju -
ry, will take over the point from Seto.
“I think everyone [is] doing well 
in their new roles, ” Seto said after the 
game. “It takes a bit of the pressure off 
of me to not have to bring the ball up 
every time. ”
Most of the Tritons’ scoring was 
done by the senior class, with guard 
Megan Perry scoring 13 points and 
forward Erin Dautremont — recover -
ing from illness — adding 10.
Forward Taylor Hirz led the 
Tritons on the boards by grabbing six 
rebounds in her noticeably expanded role on the block. Hirz averaged eight 
minutes last season and saw 19 min -
utes in Sunday’s game.
“Taylor has really come into her 
own, ” V anDerveer said of the Marshall 
College sophomore. “She’s been really 
aggressive in practice and in the game 
and a lot of this is really the level of 
aggressiveness. ”
Three freshmen saw playing 
time and scored in their first game 
for UCSD, including forward Cassie 
MacLeod, who hit her first and only 
three-point attempt as a Triton in the 
first half.
On defense, the Tritons notched 
eight steals but had 18 turnovers on 
offense.
“I think we need to get into more of 
a flow offensively, but defensively we’re 
on the same page, ” V anDerveer said. 
“We’re going to keep getting better. ”
The win is a nice change for the 
Tritons who started last season 0–3 
with a trio of losses in a preseason 
invitational. 
The Tritons will head up to 
Azusa later this week for the West 
Region Crossover Classic where 
they’ll face Seattle Pacific and 
Western Washington on Friday and 
Saturday nights.
McCutchan was named this week’s 
the CCAA Player of the Week.
After going perfect — 11 kills on 
0 errors — the middle blocker was 
named the CCAA women’s volley -
ball player of the week. McCutchan 
was also integral to UCSD this week -
end, finishing with 27 kills. Three other Tritons collected 
over 25 kills this weekend; junior 
opposite Caitlin Brenton (39) and 
sophomore outside hitters Danielle 
Dahle (30) and Sophie Rowe (26). 
Libero Brittany Lombardi led the 
UCSD defense by saving a total of 46 
digs this weekend.
UCSD hosts CCAA league lead -
ing and No. 14 nationally ranked Cal State San Bernardino this 
Wednesday, Nov. 20. This Friday, the 
Tritons head back out on the road to 
take on Cal State Los Angeles.
UCSD plays its last conference 
game at home this Saturday against 
Cal State Dominguez Hills.
The NYU Polytechnic School of Engineering offers graduate programs 
in engineering, science and technology management that empower 
students to put ideas into action.
Take, for example, manufacturing engineering graduate student  
Joe O’Connor who was inspired to /f_ind better ways to produce 
renewable energy. He put his knowledge to work in our business 
incubators and eventually started OCON Energy Consulting,  
providing solutions in sustainable development. 
Learn how the NYU Engineering culture of invention, innovation  
and entrepreneurship (i2e) can help bring your ideas to life.GRADUATE PROGRAMS
 Applied Physics, MS  
 Biomedical Engineering, MS, PhD  
 Biotechnology, MS  
 Chemical Engineering, MS, PhD  
 Civil Engineering, MS, PhD  
 Computer Science, MS, PhD  
 Computer Engineering, MS  
 Construction Management, MS  
 Electrical Engineering, MS, PhD  
 Environmental Engineering, MS  
 Financial Engineering, MS  
 Integrated Digital Media, MS  
 Management of Technology, MS, PhD  
 Manufacturing Engineering, MS  
 Mechanical Engineering, MS, PhD  
 and more…
TO LEAR N MO RE AND APPL Y VI SIT 
grad.poly.edu/ucsdTritons Ranked Second in Conference Behind San Bernardino
▶ VOLLEYBALL,  from page 12
readers&can&contact
RIT A  ERITSLAND     reritsl@ucsd.edUUCSD to Head Into West Region Classic
▶ BASKETBALL,  from page 12
readers&can&contact
Zev  Hur witz     zhurwitz@ucsd.edu&
PHOTO BY BEATRIZ BAJUELOS / GUARDIAN
PHOTO BY ALWIN SZETO / GUARDIAN10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 18, 2013 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CALENDAR
SEAN JONES QUARTET
THE LOFT, PRICE CENTERTHU11.21 • 8PMTahrircampus
CAL ENDAR
11.18 - 11.242013
MON11.18
2pm
ART & SOUL: DECORATE-A-LANYARD – 
THE ZONE, PRICE CENTER PLAZA 
Come decorate your own lanyard! Materials will 
be supplied. Space is limited so come early!
4pm
GLOBAL SEMINAR INFO SESSION: 
RENAISSANCE IN ROME – REVELLE 
CONFERENCE ROOM C
Learn how you can study abroad in Rome this 
summer! John Marino is a professor of 
Renaissance, Reformation, and early modern Italy. 
He has been studying and researching in Rome 
and Naples since 1974; and is an active member 
of the UC San Diego History Department. The goal 
of the Renaissance in Rome Global Seminar is to 
explore an American experience in Rome through 
the lenses of art and literature.TUE11.19
10am
FITNESS ZONE: CORE STRETCH – THE ZONE, PRICE 
CENTER PLAZA
Come stretch your core and work out with one of the 
Recreation Instructors! Space is limited, so come early!
2pm
LEADING CHANGE FROM ANYWHERE IN AN 
ORGANIZATION – ERC RM, PRICE CENTER W, LEVEL 
2
This interactive workshop will provide participants an 
opportunity to learn leadership theory and how to apply its 
concepts in a real world context like participating in student 
organizations. Presented by Grace Bagunu, Graduate 
Teaching Assistant, Leadership Studies - USD
2pm
TASTY TUESDAY: CRANBERRY SALAD & ZUCCHINI 
CAKES – THE ZONE
Come learn how to make delicious Cranberry Salad and 
Zucchini Cakes by Vaughn Vargas, UCSD Housing and 
Dining Executive Chef, and Elizabeth Shaw, UCSD Housing 
and Dining Registered Dietician! FREE samples!
4pm
GS INFO SESSION: ENLIGHTENMENT, ROMANTICISM 
& REVOLUTION IN EDINBURGH – REVELLE 
CONFERENCE ROOM C
Come meet Professor Parrish and learn about how you can 
study abroad in Edinburgh this summer! This city of half a 
million people traces its origins to the Bronze Age and today 
still houses some of the finest examples of Medieval and 
Georgian architecture in Europe and the United Kingdom
SAT11.23
7pm
WOMEN’S VOLLEYBALL GAME – RIMAC CENTER
UCSD women’s volleyball: -vs. CCAA opponent Cal State 
Dominguez Hills,THU11.21
11am
ITHRIVE: INTERNATIONAL TEA – THE ZONE, 
PRICE CENTER PLAZA 
Join us as we mingle over tea and discuss our 
cross-cultural experiences. Presented by: The Zone 
and International Students & Programs Office
2pm
FASHION & RESISTANCE – WORKSHOP & 
SWAP MEET – CROSS CULTURAL CENTER
Join the 'Social Justice Educators (SJE) Presents'  
workshop to discuss how fashion has been used to 
resist, how we can create our own fashion of 
resistance, and how we can sustain our own thirst 
for fashion. The first hour will discuss historic 
resistance, and the second hour will be a swap 
meet where folks bring in unwanted clothes to 
swap. Any remanding clothes will be donated. 
5pm
GLOBAL SEMINAR INFO SESSION: HISTORY 
& CULTURE IN LONDON – INTERNATIONAL 
CENTER OCEANIDS PAVILION
Come meet Professor Rahimi and learn about how 
you can study abroad in London this summer! POWERED BY THE CHANCELLOR’S OFFICE AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
WED11.20
10am
CONFERENCE FOR RESEARCH IN THE ARTS, SOCIAL 
SCIENCE, & HUMANITIES (CRASSH) – UCSD PRICE 
CENTER BALLROOM B
The purpose of this conference is to recognize the research 
done at UCSD in the Arts, Social Sciences, and Humanities 
as well as to encourage undergraduates. The conference is 
open to the public. 
5pm
GLOBAL SEMINAR INFO SESSION: SOUTHEAST ASIA 
IN WORLD HISTORY, BANGKOK – INTERNATIONAL 
CENTER LOUNGE
Come meet Professor Herbst and learn about how you can 
study abroad in Bangkok this summer! This program will 
introduce you to this region's culture and history and 
explore themes such as borrowing and adaptation, 
migration and ethnic mixing, the diffusion of religions, 
maritime trade, Western expansion and colonialism, and the 
rise of the global economy.
7pm
WOMEN’S VOLLEYBALL GAME – RIMAC CENTER
UCSD women’s volleyball: -vs. CCAA opponent Cal State 
San Bernardino, Nov 20
8pm
ASCE PANEL SERIES PRESENTS: ADULT 
ENTERTAINMENT AND SOCIETY – THE LOFT, PRICE 
CENTER
Join us for a night of facilitated discussion regarding the 
adult entertainment industry and its ethical/moral 
implications within society. We will have a panel of adult 
entertainment stars (informally known as 'porn stars')- 
TIffany Tyler, Michael Vegas, Capri Cavanni, and Mischa 
Brooks! After a moderated discussion with Contemporary 
Moral Issues professor Andy Lamey we will enter into a 
Q&A session where YOU can ask these stars any questions 
you've ever wondered about their line of work. Anything 
goes. Doors open at 8:00 PM/Q&A starts at 8:30 PM. Free 
for UCSD students with a valid IDFRI11.22
8pm
NOAH GUNDERSEN W. KELSEA LITTLE – THE 
LOFT, PRICE CENTER 
Coming to the Loft is a favorite within Seattle's 
growing folk scene, Noah Gundersen. He has proven 
himself to a devoted following and has risen in 
popularity through his folk songwriting and catchy 
music. Doors open at 8, show starts at 9.  $5 UCSD 
Students/$12 General Admission. Buy tickets online at 
ucsdboxoffice.com.CLASSIFIEDS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 18, 2013 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11Classifieds$
Gua rdian Classi /f_ieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT	
	Classifieds$
Gua rdian Classi /f_ieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT	
	crossword
ACROSS
1 Spill catcher
4 Cornered
9 A pump lacks one
14 Sun Devils’ sch.
15 Cry of innocence
16 Hogwash
17 Strauss’s “__ Rosenkavalier”
18 Take on
20 __ artery, which supplies the kidneys
22 Tee-hee
23 Takeoff
27 Expectoration sound
28 River inlet
29 Bando of the 1960s-’70s Athletics
32 Take up
38 Like some auto engines
40 Daughter of King Minos
41 Takedown
43 Place for a stud
44 DUI’s excess
45 “Make __ Away”: Sheryl Crow song
48 Take in
53 Big name in art glass
56 Sci-fi writer Asimov
57 Takeout
61 Windy City transportation gp.
62 Union founded by Samuel Gompers, 
for short
63 Y, sometimes
64 Kenan’s TV pal
65 Kirsten of “Spider-Man”
66 Land formation named for its usual 
shape
67 Cannes condiment
DOWN
1 Unfair judgment, slangily
2 “Thar she blows!”3 Peel out
4 Perspective
5 Overly
6 HVAC measure
7 Band aid?
8 Brewer’s ingredient
9 Flight segment
10 Very short time
11 Lemieux’s milieu
12 It adjoins the altar
13 Rock: Pref.
19 Bearded grazer
21 Parting words
24 Dry residue from molten liquid
25 “__ a stinker?”: Bugs Bunny line
26 N.C. ’s capital
29 Gets off the point
30 First name in advice
31 Bigger than med.
33 “Skedaddle!”
34 Birdie beater
35 AK Steel Holding Corp., formerly
36 __ Grande
37 Marine combatants
38 “Nature” author’s monogram
39 Diamond stat
42 Indian bread
46 Colonel Sanders trademark
47 Prepared to be summoned
48 Light, filled pastries
49 Letter-shaped fastener
50 Fabi of racing
51 Available from Netflix, say
52 String quartet member
53 River herring
54 Vegan staple
55 Orwell’s alma mater
58 Water tester
59 Barn bird
60 ComprehendMANDATORY
Advertising and Marketing Majors. Looking 
to build your portfolio? Attend a Plan, 
Pitch, Promote (P3) Conference at the 
MARCC Academy. Enter: “Win a Conference 
Sweepstakes”  www.themarccacademy.com 
Let me know your thoughts!
AUTO
TIRES - $400.00- 4 tire Set of used BF Goodrich 
P215/65/R15 TA Radials about 70%, with 6 
lug rims for truck; nissan / Toyota.  Listing ID: 
74756678 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
2007 CHEVROLET COLORADO LT 4D 
CREW CAB - 12800.00- 2007 CHEVROLET 
COLORADO LT 4D CREW CAB, Power 
Convenience Package, Standard Suspension 
Package, 6 Speakers, AM/FM radio, AM/FM 
Stereo w/CD/MP3 Player, CD player, MP3 
decoder, Radio data system, Weather band 
radio, Air Conditioning, Power steering, 
Power windows, Remote keyless entry, ABS 
brakes, Dual front impact airbags, Front anti-
roll bar.  Listing ID: 74951674 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
91 SL 500/SL 600 PARTS - $400.00- What I Am 
Selling Is A 1991 & Up Mercedes Sl 500 Hoods 
(2) ..400 Each ....grill 250.00....left & Right 
Door Mirrors..150.00 Ea ...front Bumpers 
Needs Work ...91/94...250.00...1995 & Up 
....350.00 ...and More Listing ID: 73219500 at 
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
EVENTS
NYE 2014 Masquerade Cruise - All Inclusive! 
- $125- Happy New Year San Diego!! Sail into 
the new year with an unforgettable night 
aboard the FantaSea yacht. We’ll be cruising 
along the bay and dancing the night away! 
It’s the biggest night of the year so let’s get 
dressed up! Add a mask for mystery and fun! 
(Ladies are asked to ditch the spikey heels 
for safety and to avoid damaging the boat) 
Light appetizers will be available buffet style 
and the bartender will be serving a signature 
cocktail, red & white wine, beer and a cham -
pagne toast at midnight. To ensure an even 
split between ladies and men, we will be sell -
ing tickets separately. Feel free to invite your 
friends, but reserve your spot now because 
space is limited!! Event details:  Tuesday, 
December 31, 2013 9pm-1am (Boarding time 
is at 8:45pm) FantaSea Yacht 1880 Harbor 
Island Drive - Dock B Tickets: $125 each 
Purchase your tickets here. Capacity: twenty 
Women / twenty Men (excluding the hosts) 
For more details on the FantaSea Yacht, vis -
ithttp://www.yachtfantasea.com. Listing ID: 
74995851 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
Tickets for Brian Regan at Balboa Theatre 
in San Diego California, Friday - $175- Buy 
Brian Regan Tickets for Friday, February 14, 
2014 10:00 PM at Balboa Theatre in San 
Diego, California. Listing ID: 75166319 at 
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
TEAM Rancho Bernardo lunch Meeting- **We 
are a category exclusive group. To find out if 
your category is still available please contact 
chapter President - Trudi Kayser at [masked] 
or [masked].  Don’t hire a sales team, JOIN 
one!!  You are cordially invited to our weekly 
meeting of the Rancho Bernardo Chapter 
of TEAM Referral Network.  TEAM Referral 
Network turns success oriented business 
people into a strong team of networking 
professionals who work together to grow 
their business with referrals. Relationship 
marketing is a better, smarter way of doing 
business.  The Rancho Bernardo Chapter 
is currently looking for:  CPA, Accountant, 
Bookkeeper, Payroll, Estate Attorney, Dentist, 
Florist, Jeweler, Massage Therapist, Banker, 
Business Attorney, Auto Repair, Auto Sales, 
Contractor, Escrow, Photographer, Event 
Planner, Interior Designer, Travel Agent, 
Telecommunications, Hair Salon/Stylist, 
Chiropractor, and a Nutritionist. Listing ID: 
75166304 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
TEXTBOOKS 
Electrical Machines, Drives and Power 
Systems (6th Edition) - $1- Electrical 
Machines, Drives and Power Systems (6th 
Edition) By: Theodore Wildi. Publisher: 
Prentice Hall. Good condition. Listing ID: 
74076685 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
The Humanities: Culture, Continuity, and 
Change, Book 5 - $1- The Humanities: 
Culture, Continuity, and Change, Book 5. 
By: Henry M. Sayre. Publisher: Prentice 
Hall. Some highlighting. Good Condition: 
74077066 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information.
Contact Brianna, UCSD Airway Research Center
619-471-0822Subjects)aged)18/65)with)current)asthma)
symptoms)to)grass)pollens)needed)for)study)
requiring)donation)of)blood,)allergy)skin)
testing,)pulmonary)function)testing,)and)
completion)of)allergy)questionnaires.)Will)be)
reimbursed)$575)for)completion)of)5)clinic)
visit)study)over)a)2)year)period.UCSD%ASTHMA%BLOOD%
DONOR%STUDY:
Graphic Design Service for Student Organizations!
Located in PC East, 3rd Floorasgraphicstudio.ucsd.eduSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
RACHEL  UDA
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 18, 2013 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
Six kickers deep into a penalty kick shootout that would 
decide who, between UCSD and Chico State, would 
advance to the third round of the NCAA Tournament, 
senior goalkeeper Josh Cohen was tasked to make his third 
penalty save of the night.
Having already faced five Chico State kickers and made an 
unheard-of two penalty kick stops, the California Collegiate 
Athletic Association Defensive Player of the Y ear made a diving 
save to deny Chico’s Justin Saul.
“ At that point we had already taken our seventh penalty, so 
there wasn’t much pressure on me, ” Cohen said. “I basically just 
watched their guy approach the ball and went with my instinct. 
I was just able to get my arm all the way out there and was able 
to make the save. ”
The penalty kicks came after 110 minutes of play, resulting 
in a 1–1 draw.
In front of a crowd of nearly 1,000 people, second-seeded 
UCSD faced No. 3 Chico State for the fourth time this season. 
The Wildcats took the early lead when Chico’s Matt Hurlow 
found himself unmarked 25 yards out. In the eighth minute, 
Hurlow hit a rocket to put Chico up 1–0. UCSD equalized 10 
minutes later on a header by senior defender Gavin Lamming, 
who got on the other end of a free kick by Andisheh Bagheri.
“Our guys did a great job after giving up an early goal, ” 
UCSD head coach Jon Pascale said. “I think they could have 
easily crumbled playing in front of such a big crowd, but they 
answered right back with a goal of their own. ”
Unable to break the tie in regulation, the Tritons played 
through two overtime periods — marking the third straight 
overtime bout between the two CCAA powerhouses.
All-CCAA first team selection Alec Arsht and senior mid -
fielder Cory Wolfrom both logged significant minutes despite 
having been involved in a car accident with a driver that ran a 
red light just hours before the match. 
With the 1–1 tie, the Tritons will advance to play No. 12 
nationally ranked Simon Fraser — who beat Cal State Los 
Angeles last Saturday — in the third round of the NCAA 
Tournament. 
UCSD has not faced Simon Fraser this season, but Cohen 
said the match will likely feature UCSD’s league-leading defense 
and Simon Fraser’s dynamic front line, which has the second 
highest goals per game average in the nation with 3.44.
“From what it seems, Simon Fraser’s very offensive-minded, 
they average over three goals a game, so it will be interesting to 
see our defense take on their offense, ” Cohen said.
This Wednesday, UCSD will travel to Denver, Colo., where 
the West Regional finals will be held. 
The Tritons will meet Simon Fraser Friday, Nov. 22.
The winner will advance to the Elite Eight to face the winner 
between hosts Regis and Midwestern State.
With eight consecutive wins in 
the California Collegiate Athletic 
Association, UCSD seems to be 
peaking as they head into playoffs. 
Last Friday, the Tritons took down 
Cal State Monterey Bay in five sets 
before beating Cal State East Bay 
in four. 
With the weekend wins the 
Tritons improve to 23–3 overall and 
16–3 in conference play — holding 
on to second place at two games 
behind CCAA leader Cal State San Bernardino.
For the second time this season, 
UCSD took the court against Cal 
State Monterey Bay, this time at the 
Kelp Bed. The Tritons struggled in 
the first two sets and found them -
selves on the verge of being swept, 
but they rallied to win the next 
three sets. The match featured 45 tie 
scores and 19 total lead changes.
Triton setter Heidi Sierks estab -
lished a new career-high with 70 
assists.
“We really pulled off a great win 
against a good team, ” UCSD head coach Ricci Luyties said to the UCSD 
Athletics Department.  “I was very 
impressed with our ability to not 
give in and keep playing hard when 
things weren’t going well. Everyone 
made big plays during crunch time. ”
The next day the Tritons took 
on Cal State East Bay on the road. 
UCSD dropped the first set 18–25 
but showed no mercy in the three 
next sets, winning 25–23, 25–23 and 
25–18.
Junior middle blocker Sara SATURDAY NIGHT 
SHOOTOUT
SOCCER
UCSD
Andisheh Bagheri Penalty Kick
Brandon Bauman 
Alec Arsht 
Will Pleskow 
Cory Wolfrom 
Matthew McClure 
Malek Bashti CHICO STATE
Tyson Crim Penalty Kick
Jordan Gorman 
Kramer Runager 
Jake Ward 
Octavio Guzman 
Matt Hurlow 
Justin Saul UCSD advances to the third round of 
the NCAA Tournament after beating 
Chico State 5–4 in a penalty shootout.
B Y  RACHEL  UDA !SPORTS!EDITOR! PHOTOS  B Y  NHAN  NGUYEN
Illustra tion  b y  zoe  mccracken  and  dorothy  lee
WOMEN'S  BASKETBALL WOMEN'S  VOLLEYBALL
UCSD’s women’s basketball team 
defeated conference foe Cal State San 
Bernardino 70–65 in the Tritons’ first 
game of the season.
For the first time, UCSD began 
the regular season with a conference 
matchup without the aid of a couple 
preseason tune-up games.“It’s a little nerve-racking to start a 
season with a conference game, but we 
held our own and stuck it out together 
for the win, ” senior guard Miranda 
Seto said.
After junior forward McKennan 
Bertsch opened the game with a layup, 
the teams exchanged leads in the first Tritons Open Season 
With Win Over Coyotes
UCSD women’s basketball downed Cal State San 
Bernardino on Seto’s career-high 21-point game.
BY   z e v   h u rw i t z   senior!staff!writer
See BASKETBALL , page 9Tritons 24–3 Heading Into Postseason
UCSD beat Cal State Monterey Bay (3–2) and Cal State East Bay (3–1) on the road.
BY  R I T A   E R I T S L A N D   EDITORIAL!ASSISTANT
See VOLLEYBALL , page 9
 VOLLEYBALL
SWIMMING & DIVING
MEN’S BASKETBALL
SWIMMING & DIVING11/20
11/21
11/21
11/22VS Cal State San Bernardino
AT Arena Invitational
VS Cal State San Bernardino
AT Arena Invitational UPCOMING
UCSD
GAMES
readers!can!contact
Rachel  Uda     ruda@ucsd.edu!Check marks indicate penalty kicks scored