UCSD buildings won three prizes 
for exemplary design and artistic 
innovation at last week’s San Diego 
Architectural Foundation “Orchids 
and Onions” awards.
The annual ceremony, organized 
by the “Orchids and Onions” foun -dation — a nonprofit organization 
promoting design and architecture 
in San Diego — consisted of a profes -
sional jury that awarded 16 “orchid” 
prizes for buildings with outstand -
ing architecture and seven “onion” 
awards to those with haphazard and 
unimaginative design.
UCSD’s “Fallen Star” art install -
ment, seen as the house installed atop 
the Jacobs School of Engineering, 
received the 2013 Grand Orchid 
Prize.
Artist Do Ho Suh created the 
piece in 2012 as the 18th addition 
to the university’s Stuart Collection.
According to the jury, “Fallen 
Star” won the award for its creativity, sophistication and dynamism.
“Needless to say, we are thrilled 
with this very high honor, ” UCSD 
Stuart Collection Director Mary 
Beebe said. “The idea of making 
a project about the idea of ‘home’ 
seemed especially relevant for a uni -
versity, and the amazing image of Do 
Ho Suh’s house and the experience of 
entering it are truly memorable for 
people of all ages. ”
UCSD’s Galbraith Hall also won 
an award for interior design, follow -
ing its complete renovation in May 
2013 by architects Kevin deFreitas 
and Manish Desai.
“I’m really, really proud of it, and 
I think it just speaks volumes about what UCSD is trying to accom -
plish, ” deFreitas said. “They have an 
established reputation for demand -
ing from their architects and their 
designers and landscape artists what 
they expect from their academics 
and researchers, which is excellence. ”
Galbraith Hall was recognized 
for its use of space and color, as well 
as for its incorporation of old and 
modern designs.
“The jury enjoyed Galbraith 
Hall’s fresh, bright, cheerful space 
and appreciated that the building 
was repurposed in such a sensitive 
and thoughtful way, ” leaders of the VOLUME 47, ISSUE 5  THURSDAY , OCTOBER 10, 2013  WWW. UCSD GUARDIA N.ORG
A.S. President Launches
Transportation CampaignTRANSPOR TATION
B Y  G ABRI ELL A  FLE IS HM AN     contributing  WRITER
A.S. Council launched a new campaign 
to solicit more student involvement 
in resolving the transportation crisis 
at a special meeting Wednesday evening. 
/T_he campaign, called “Keep it Moving, We 
Decide, Let’s Rise, ” aims at informing students 
in hopes of receiving as much student input 
as possible to instate a democratic decision-
making process for transportation services.
Transportation and Parking Services says it 
has experienced a $2.2 million de/f_icit since the introduction of the free UCSD Bus Zone 
program in 2006. Students do not pay for bus 
or shuttle services, but TPS is charged $1.16 
for each student that rides the MTS buses. 
Because revenue only comes from parking 
permits, parking citations and parking meters, 
both council and administration have searched 
for ways to increase revenue.At Wednesday’s 
meeting, council heard suggestions from the 
Transportation Task Force, including the pos -
sibility of consolidating Arriba and Nobel into a single route and reducing Campus Loop to 
run in only one direction. /T_he administration 
proposed to charge $10 per month for free Bus 
Zone stickers and a 10- to  15-percent parking 
rate increase. Council has taken many steps 
to make UCSD a more bike-friendly campus, 
an issue that is relevant to many students. 
Projects that are en route to being actualized 
include painting bike lanes as well as creating 
bypasses on Library Walk and on unsafe hills, Petascale
Computer 
Receives 
$12 MillionCAM PUS
The ERC Supercomputer 
Center will begin work 
on a new petascale model 
named Comet this year.
BY  a l e ksa n d r a   ko n s t a n t i n o v i c  
associate  NEWS  EDITOR
The San Diego Supercomputer 
Center at Eleanor Roosevelt College 
in UCSD received a $12 million grant 
from the National Science Foundation 
to begin working with a new petascale 
supercomputer named Comet. 
A petascale computer system is 
capable of performing over one pet -
aflop, or one quadrillion operations 
per second. At peak performance, 
Comet can perform at two quadrillion 
operations a second. 
High-performance computing 
is a staple of scientific research in 
the fields of physics and astronomy, 
according to a UC newsroom release.
According to SDSC Director 
Michael Norman, who serves as the 
project’s principal investigator, Comet 
will provide the same depth of research 
to other fields. 
“Comet is all about computing for 
the 99 percent, ” Norman said. “ As the 
world’s first virtualized HPC cluster, 
it is designed to deliver a significantly 
increased level of computing capacity 
and customizability to support data-
enabled science and engineering at the 
campus, regional and national levels 
and in turn support the entire science 
and engineering enterprise, including 
education as well as research. ”
Comet is built as a Dell-based 
computer cluster on Intel Xeon pro -
cessors. It features 1.5 terabytes of 
memory and NVIDIA graphics pro -
cessing units. The computer serves as 
a successor to the Center’s previous 
computer cluster, Trestles.
SDSC Deputy Director Richard 
Moore believes Comet will be just as 
accessible as Trestles, which is retiring 
after four years.
“Comet will have all of the features 
that made Trestles so popular with 
users but with much more capacity 
and ease-of-access, ” Moore said. 
NSF grants are merit-based, 
awarded after review by a panel of 
scientists and educators. NSF receives 
40,000 research proposals every year, 
funding about 10,000 of them. 
Like other government organiza -
tions, NSF has been affected by the 
federal government shutdown. The 
agency currently cannot process new 
applications for grants, nor respond to 
phone and email inquiries and has fur -
loughed 98.5 percent of its employees. 
According to the shutdown procedure 
on the NSF website, the agency will 
also not be able to make any payments 
on existing awards until the govern -
ment resumes normal operations.
Comet is scheduled to begin oper -
ations in early 2015.Called “Keep it Moving, W e Decide, Let’ s Rise, ” the initiative aims to inform students 
about ongoing transportation changes and solicit students’ involvement. 
The three buildings 
won awards last week 
for exemplary design, 
innovation and creativity.ARCH ITECTU RE
Campus Buildings Win “Orchid” Architecture Awards
BY   M e k a l a   Neelakant an   
News  Editor
See AWARDS , page 3See COUNCIL , page 3
readers  can  contact
ALEK SAN DRA   K ONS TAN TINO VIC     ALKONSTA@ucsd.edu  PHOTO  BY JI KIM /GUARDIANSEE LIFESTYLE
          PAGE 6TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THE FREE BUS ZONE...
WHILE IT’S STILL FREE2 THE UCSD GUARDIA N | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 10, 2013 | WWW. UCSD GUARDIA N.ORG N EW S
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and 
Thursdays during the academic year by UCSD  students 
and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this 
newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, 
without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2013, all 
rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible 
for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The 
views expressed herein do not necessarily represent 
the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of 
California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian 
is funded by advertising. Don’t let Voncent touch you.       
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035
UCSDGuardianBusiness Manager
Emily Ku 
Advertising Director  
Noelle Batema
Marketing  
Nicholas Paladino
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Page Layout
Amber Shroyer, Dorothy VanLaira Martin
Zev Hurwitz
Allie Kiekhofer
Mekala Neelakantan
Aleksandra Konstantinovic
Lauren Koa
Kelvin Noronha
Rachel Uda
Stacey Chien
Vincent Pham
Jacqueline Kim
Brian Monroe
Taylor Sanderson
Sara Shroyer
Zoë McCracken
Jeffrey Lau
Madeline MannEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
Deputy Managing Editor
News Editor
Associate News Editor
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
Lifestyle Editor
A&E Editor
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editor
Training & Development
Editorial Assistants
Rachel Huang, Shelby Newallis
Copy Readers
Rachel Huang, Claire Yee
THE ULTIMATE LASER TAG SINCE  1995
ULTRAZONE  Evolves with an All-New Laser Tag System.
  Incredible Group Event 
Discounts for Sororities, 
Fraternities and Clubs  Own the ZONE Hourly Rentals
  Thurs Night = “College Night” 
3rd Game Free  Up to 120 Players
  Starving Student Program
3146 Sports Arena Blvd.    San Diego, CA    619.221.0100    www.ultrazonesandiego.com
LASER TAG!
ULTRAZONE
ULTRAZONE
 Evolves with an All-New Laser Tag System.
 Evolves with an All-New Laser Tag System.
the ultimate thrill
has arrived.
the ultimate 
thrill
thrill
has arrived.
the ultimate thrill
has arrived.the ultimate thrill
has arrived.www.ucsdguardian.org/advertising ACTIONS
Words
				
			

@UCSDGuardian#OMG! Follow us on Twitter #NOW! 
FLEETING THOUGHTS By Irene Chiang
QUITE FRANKLY By Lior Schenk
UCSD Health System surgeons 
performed the first robotic gas -
trectomy in the San Diego area on 
Sept. 17. Gastrectomies are a pro -
cedure that removes part or all of 
the stomach of patients diagnosed 
with gastric cancer. Surgeons use 
a da Vinci surgical system — cre -
ated to remove malignant tissue, 
operate reconstruction and extract 
lymph nodes for testing.
“The patients who are well 
suited for robotic gastrectomy are 
people who are in early stages 
of the disease,” UCSD surgical 
oncologist Dr. Kaitlyn Kelly said. 
“I thought doing the procedure 
robotically, which is a minimally 
invasive way, allowed people a 
quicker recovery than open sur -
gery and would be a better option 
for her. ”
Kelly performed the operation 
on a woman who was in the early 
stages of gastric cancer. During 
surgery, Kelly removed the lymph nodes, and, afterward, the pathol -
ogy showed that the lymph nodes 
did not have cancer in them. 
“She went home on the fifth 
day following surgery and began 
a regular diet with no problem, 
and she has very tiny incisions. ” 
Kelly said. 
Kelly previously performed 
the surgery while training in New 
Yor k ,  t h ou g h  ro b ot i c  g a s t re c t o -
mies are not very common in the 
United States. 
Gastrectomies can be per -
formed as open surgery, laparo -
scopic surgery or robot surgery; 
laparoscopic and robotic are the 
least invasive./uni00A0In laparoscopic sur -
gery, vision is two dimensional, 
as opposed to the robotic surgery, 
where vision is three dimensional. 
“I am hoping to incorporate 
the robot where I think it is appro -
priate in the treatment of gastroin -
testinal cancers, ” Kelly said.
 Surgeons Perform First Robotic Procedure in San DiegoSCIENCE   &  TECH NO LOGY
BY  h e l e n   h e j r a n  STAFF  WRITER
readers  can  contact
Helen  Hejran     hhejran@ucsd.edu  N EW S  THE UCSD GUARDIA N | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 10, 2013 | WWW. UCSD GUARDIA N.ORG 3
to.ucsd.eduON CAMPUS. ONLINE. ON POINT.
 	" 1#)	,)
#More'#nAShirt% OFF ALL SUN GOD FESTIVAL MERCH
USE COUPON COD E:	1!
	AS   Council  New  Business  Appointment
Sean Kennedy
ASCE Festivals
Coordinator
Jamie Millar
ASCE Festivals
Coordinator
Dorothy Chow
ASCE Chief of
Staff
Alexander
 Goldshteyn
ASCE Bear Garden 
Coordinator
JD Laugin
ASCE Special 
Events Coordinator
Kevin Tran
ASCE Special 
Events
James Shih
KDST Sound 
EngineerRochelle Lorkovic
ARCH Advisory 
Committee 
Representative
Robby Boparai
Academic Senate
Admission Committee
Gerardo Narez
Academic Senate 
Committee on Diversity 
& Equity Representative
Colin King
Academic Senate 
Committee on 
International Education 
Representative
Daniel Juarez
Chief of Staff for the 
6MÄJLVM,_[LYUHS(MMHPYZ
Orchids and Onions foundation said 
on their website.
UCSD Director of Space 
Planning Tom Allen praised deFrei -
tas’s design.
“It far exceeded our expectations, 
and I think we have great admi -
ration for our architect who was 
able to put together such a fantastic 
design, ” Allen said.
The Structural and Nano-
Materials Engineering Building was the last campus structure to receive 
an “Orchid” this year, winning for 
innovative architecture.
“The idea behind combining the 
engineering and visual arts depart -
ments in one building to promote 
innovation and collaboration among 
two decidedly different/uni00A0 subjects 
clearly influenced the design of this 
multi-dimensional and thoughtful 
building, ” the jury said.Galbraith Hall Wins “Orchid” Award
/uni25B6 AWARDS,  from page 1
readers  can  contact
MEK ALA  NEEL AKAN TAN     MNEELAKA@ucsd.edu  like Peterson Hill. Proposed projects 
for the future are bike parking, a 
bike “cleanse” that would rid campus 
of old, abandoned bikes to make 
way for new bikes, the/f_t preven -
tion, locked bike storage and bike 
sharing.“We identi/f_ied the problems 
with students, met with admin, 
were in agreement and made a lot 
of progress, ” Director of Urban De -
velopment and Transportation Kyle 
Heiskala said. “If this project were to 
be implemented, it would be the best 
thing to happen to bikes at UCSD so 
far. ” Another new introduction at the 
meeting was ASUCSD Moves, a pro -
posed new commission to be voted on next week that would work with 
the transportation advisory board. 
/T_he commission would aim to give 
students the power to in/f_luence de -
cisions made by TPS.“/T_he other big 
issue that we, as undergrads, have 
had [is] that the decision-making 
process to get us where we’re at, so 
far, has not been a democratic one, ” 
Revelle Senator Soren Nelson said. 
“Because we don’t pay fees into the 
system as a student body, we don’t 
have a role, and that’s something we 
need to change. ” As a part of the push 
for student input, council launched 
a survey to better understand which 
transportation issues are impor -
tant to students. In distributing the 
survey, council intends to address these salient issues with TPS to 
better serve students and the com -
munity. Robert Holden, Director of 
Auxiliary Business Services, which 
oversees Transportation and Parking 
Services, also values open discus -
sion with the community.“We have 
reached out to students, student 
groups and student government, and 
we continue to welcome ongoing 
input from students, ” Holden said. 
“We are looking at viable solu -
tions.  Changes to the program are 
necessary, whether they are service 
reductions or changes to the way 
programs are paid for. ”Council Proposes ASUCSD Move Transportation Commission
/uni25B6 COUNCIL,  from page 1
readers  can  contact
GABRI ELL A  FLE IS CHM AN      gfleisch@ucsd.edu  
Aaron Tumamao
AS SpeakerJanelle Leano
Triton Tide Director
PHOTO  BY BRIA N MONROE / GUARDIAN F ILE
Galbraith Hall won an architecture award following renovations that took place throughout 2012 and 2013.Graham Richardson
ASCE Production 
CoordinatorOPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
LAUREN  KOA
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | T HURSDAY , OCTOB ER 10, 2013 | WWW. UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 
An iPhone 
App Is My 
Pro Bono 
Therapist
This year, when I finally had 
the opportunity to write my 
own column, I was so excit -
ed I didn’t know what to do with 
myself. But when I opened my lap -
top to start writing, I got stressed 
thinking about what I’ d even write 
about. So I did what comes natu -
rally to me whenever I feel over -
whelmed: I went on my iPhone and 
opened “Bakery Story, ” one of my 
many games. And, voila.
Anyone who knows me knows 
that I have been dedicated to bak -
ery simulation games for years. 
Before my current go-to, “Bakery 
Story, ” there was “Bakery Life, ” 
which left me heartbroken when 
it was removed from Facebook 
in 2011. And while many gaming 
addicts lament how playing their 
games have ruined their lives, I’m 
going to tell you the exact opposite.
My loyalty to these kind of 
games is not only due to the simple 
fact that they are fun, but because 
these games keep me sane.
Like its popular cousin, 
“Farmville, ” the premise of  “Bakery 
Story” is simple. You bake cute 
simulated sugary-sweet goods, wait 
for them to finish cooking, serve 
them to in-game characters who 
buy them, and make money. 
There are extra options to 
decorate your bakery, fulfil some 
goals and objectives, save gems for 
mystery prize boxes or the occa -
sional corgi statue; enough to keep 
you invested, but not to keep you 
mindlessly playing all day. There’s 
no pressure of an impending time 
limit, no responsibility to save your 
work before quitting. I rest assured 
that when I open my bakery, I’ll 
be greeted with the day’s earnings 
and gifts from neighbors, most 
of whom are strangers. There’s 
no need to post embarassing and 
awkward Facebook posts asking for 
lives to continue playing my bakery. 
The benefits of the game don’t 
even end there. My bakery fits with 
the routines of my day and even 
helps me get up in the morning. If 
I need to wake up at 6 a.m. but find 
myself getting into bed at midnight, 
I can just choose to bake some serv -
ings of Fruit Tart that will be ready 
to serve in six hours. And though 
I am the world’s worst morning 
person, I do get up to serve my food 
and prevent it from burning. 
“Bakery Story” is my dose of 
therapeutic relaxation at the cost 
of free-ninety-nine. After working 
all day, spending hours studying 
for midterms or writing another 
daunting paper for Making of the 
Modern World, I instantly feel 
calmer once I have the opportunity 
to take a break and open my bak -
ery. Some may call this procrastina -
tion, but baking zero-calorie simu -
lated chocolate chip cookies defi -
nitely beats consuming real comfort 
food calories in my book.
People have told me countless 
times to quit playing these juve -
nile games, and they’ve heard me 
reject them with this explanation 
far too often. It may seem childish, 
but I don’t really see why I should. 
I don’t tell them to stop crushing 
candies or running through Mayan 
temples. But to each their own, and 
at least on the days that I feel crazy, 
I’ll have my version of therapy in 
the palm of my hand.Laira Martin
EDITOR IN CHI EF
Zev Hurwitz
MANAGING EDITOR
Allie Kiekhofer
DEPUTY MANAGING EDITOR
Lauren Koa
OPINION EDITOR
Kelvin Noronha
ASSOCIATE OPINION EDITOR
Mekala Neelakantan
NEWS EDITOR
 
Aleksandra Konstantinovic
ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITOREDITORIAL  BOARD
The UCS D Guardian is published twice a week at the 
University of California at San Diego. Contents © 
2012. Views expressed herein represent the majority 
vote of the editorial board and are not necessarily those 
of the UC Board of Regents, the ASUCS D or the 
members of the Guardian staff. Funds For AllEDITORIALS
UCSD should refocus fundraising efforts toward pressing 
student needs alongside academic improvement.
Last April, this year’s A.S. Council 
said goodbye to slate-dominated 
politics, but judging by recent activ -
ity on council, you wouldn’t guess 
that was the case. 
Now-former Associated Students 
Speaker John Weng’s resignation 
from council on Wednesday, Oct. 2 
was not preceded by any formal calls 
for his departure; however, this sig -
nals that tempers on council are still 
flared. Weng said he resigned because 
he felt that council was “moving away 
from its original mission to serve 
the students” and that that he felt he 
“could no longer stay impartial. ” 
If his accusations are valid, 
councilmembers need to stop fight -
ing among themselves and move 
forward. Personal issues should not 
prevent them from enacting the cam -
paign promises that got them elected 
in the first place.
Weng is not the first council -member whose differences have 
taken center stage at A.S. Council. 
His resignation follows months 
of speculation about the fate of 
Vice President of External Affairs 
Vanessa Garcia, who has recently 
been the subject of informal calls 
for impeachment. 
Garcia’s trouble with council 
was most recently illuminated 
when council released a motion for 
the “Resignation of Vice President 
External Affairs Vanessa Garcia for 
Failure to Perform Duties, Improper 
and Unethical Use of Authority, and 
Willful Violation of ASUCSD Rules, 
Regulations, and Procedures” on 
Oct. 2. The resolution has since been 
moved to “unfinished business. ”
While council’s official argument 
was that Garcia violated A.S. policy 
by listing Raquel Morales instead of 
Brianna Nelson as a legislative liai -
son at the UC Student Association’s summer congress, the motivation 
behind the call for resignation reeks 
of old, slate-dominated politics. 
There seems to be a clear link 
between the council’s motion for 
resignation and slate partisanship. 
Garcia’s mistake, which did cost 
UCSD a vote at the summer con -
gress, could have been intentional, 
a clerical error or a simple misun -
derstanding, but the reaction of a 
mostly Keep it Real-dominated A.S. 
Council feels extreme. 
Just after the election results 
were announced, we encouraged 
the elected councilmembers to let 
go of their slate-affiliations and 
learn to work together despite their 
initial differences.
Keep it Real’s Facebook page still 
states that its goal is to build “coun -
cils ... that don’t necessarily have to 
agree on everything 100 percent, 
but are willing to be agreeable and work toward concrete solutions. ” 
But it seems like council is increas -
ingly letting its actual agenda take 
the backseat in favor of battling out 
disagreements that are increasingly 
moot. Perhaps council’s bickering 
this year — and every other year 
— indicates that slate-dominated 
elections simply can’t translate to a 
council that can work together to 
form a cohesive agenda.
Three weeks into the school year, 
it looks as if things may be hope -
fully moving forward: Andy Buselt 
released his Undergraduate Bike 
Report this week, and we’ll look for -
ward to see what his Transportation 
Town Hall leads to. 
We know the beginning is always 
the hardest part, but it’s time for 
council to snap into gear. After all, 
they’ve got just 20 more weeks in 
office until next year’s council comes 
in, their own differences in tow.UCSD released its annual report of fiscal 
year donations last week — perhaps the 
last significant amounts of money we will 
see come into our university for a while, given the 
government’s current financial outlook.
The 30,289 private donors who gave to UCSD 
this past year brought in a pretty large amount; 
UCSD now has a whopping $150.3 million in 
private support, a 15-percent increase over the 
previous year. But even though the donations are 
rolling in, money just isn’t being funneled into the 
right places. The question is whether or not we 
can do anything about it.
Since these funds are from private donors 
kind enough to give us money in the first place, 
the university is obligated to use the money as the 
individual donors see fit — we’re not at the liberty 
to spend it elsewhere unless specified. This means 
that if a billionaire alumnus decides to gift $1 
million to UCSD for the installation of a second 
house on top of the Jacobs School of Engineering 
(just in case the first one is feeling a little lonely), 
that’s exactly where the money will go, regardless 
of whether or not the university would like to see 
that same money go toward something different. 
Of course, these donors — especially those 
who attended UCSD — are looking out for the 
university’s best interests, and we are definitely 
grateful. However, it’s sometimes hard not to wish 
that those immense amounts of money would 
go toward some often-neglected areas that might 
benefit students in more tangible ways. The uni -versity needs to allocate funds to develop a more 
positive undergraduate education and experi -
ence at UCSD — one that future graduates will 
remember and want to contribute to in the future.
Chancellor Khosla commended the donors’ 
contributions, as he should, saying that they 
would strengthen the university.
“Private gifts fund support for students, 
construct academic and medical buildings, 
ensure excellent patient care, fuel research, 
foster the arts and promise a diverse student 
experience, ” Khosla said.
However, that the aforementioned statement 
is not exactly true. Looking at statistics, it’s easy 
to see that the fields in which the donations are 
directed to are consistent. In the 2012–13 year, 
nine of the 13 largest gifts made by donors went 
toward the sciences. The computer science and 
engineering department received an unprec -
edented $18.5 million from a single benefactor to 
create new endowment chairs and lab programs, 
and according to a report from the UCSD News 
Center, half of the total private support was aimed 
at continuing UCSD’s research tradition.
On the other hand, a mere two out of the 13 
donations were specifically directed to aspects 
unrelated to research: $300,000 from the Triton 
5K Fundraising Run was gifted toward student 
scholarships, and $50,000 was gifted by alum -
nus Karen Moraghan to support student lounge 
“The Zone. ”
It’s hard not to miss the pattern.
);;TI\M8WTQ\QK[,Q[\ZIK\.ZWU.]TÅTTQVO+IUXIQOV8ZWUQ[M[
lauren  koa  lkoa@ucsd.edutechnicall y 
speaking
See FUNDS , page 5ILLUSTRATION  BY LYNN  HAOAlthough it is immensely impor -
tant to maintain UCSD’s tradition of 
top-notch research and cutting-edge 
scientific discovery, the university 
cannot overlook the less glamorous 
aspects of student life. We certainly 
appreciate a new building now and 
then, but we need to refocus our 
fundraising drives on more pressing 
matters. Undergraduate education, 
student organizations, university 
centers, housing and transportation 
are all suffering due to the lack of 
financial support.
Obviously, administrators are in 
no place to make pointed requests to 
these benefactors whose numbers are 
increasingly being made up of alumni; 
they must therefore begin more tar -geted fundraising toward these mas -
sive issues that affect students’ lives. 
What is disappointing about the 
current situation, however, is that 
Chancellor Khosla came to this uni -
versity under the banner of fundrais -
ing. He was recognized for playing 
a role in major campaigns directed 
toward energy and engineering at 
Carnegie Mellon University, and has 
done the same for UCSD’s Moores 
Cancer Center, the Jacobs School of 
Engineering and other science and 
technology ventures — but what we 
do not hear about as much is his 
work toward other campus-related 
issues, like student housing and 
transportation.
Day in and day out, students dis -
cuss the temporary double housing 
situations and street-circling lines for buses, but the status quo persists. 
Campus organizations languish under 
heavy debt, university centers struggle 
with securing even small referendums 
for maintenance and undergraduate 
tuition continues to cruise upward.
It would be unfair to blame 
Chancellor Khosla and the admin -
istration for not holding fundrais -
ers aimed at improving campus 
issues like housing and transporta -
tion, and it would be even more 
unfair to blame donors for failing 
to recognize these aspects of our 
university’s financial deficiencies.
However, the fact remains that 
these student concerns need to 
be prioritized, and unless Jacobs 
agrees to sublet its dangling house 
to incoming freshmen, the action 
has to start now.O P INION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | T HURSDAY , OCTOB ER 10, 2013 | WWW. UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 5
Has a doctor diagnosed you (or someone 
in your household) with Whooping Cough 
within the last five years?
We are studying the bacteria (B. Pertussis) that causes whooping cough in 
humans.  Our study is aimed at understanding and improving the whooping cough 
vaccine and we are looking for healthy volunteers, between the ages of 18 and 65 
that may have recovered from whooping cough or lived with someone that was 
diagnosed with whooping cough and are willing to make blood donation(s). 
Qualified participants will be asked to provide information regarding their 
vaccination history and will be provided compensation for donating blood.If you would like more information or think that you 
may be eligible for this study, please call our study 
coordinator at (858) 752-6979 or email study@lji.org.
HALCYON DAYS By Christie Yi
UCSD Needs Funding T o Address Current Campus Concerns
/uni25B6 FUNDS,  from page 4LETTER  TO  THE  EDITOR
Dear Editor,
New Y ork City Mayor Bloomberg 
has awarded a spy campus contract on 
Roosevelt Island (plus a $100 million 
sweetener) to Cornell University and 
fellow billionaire, Irwin Jacobs.
“I launched Qualcomm’s first 
international R&D Center in Haifa, 
Israel, in 1992, staffed entirely with 
Technion graduates and purposely 
located near the campus to take 
advantage of its great education and 
research, ” said Irwin Jacobs. Technion 
graduates the year before last held 59 
of 121 Israeli companies listed on the 
NASDAQ, and these companies held 
a combined market value of over $28 
billion — Israeli companies headed 
by Technion graduates employed 85 
percent of Israel’s technical workforce. 
Israel would have become the third 
largest arms exporter in the world last 
year behind Russia and America had 
not its billion-dollar deal with China 
for an early warning system been 
blocked by the Pentagon. An obvious 
conclusion is that Technion is an arm 
of the Israeli government. 
Intellectual property vital to our 
defense may be whisked out of the 
country. Admiral Sumner Shapiro, 
himself a Jew, whom Jonathan Pollard 
had tried to recruit as a spy or at least 
align with his rationale for spying (for 
Israel), stated that he was troubled 
by the support of Jewish-American 
organizations in New Y ork for Pollard: 
“We work so hard to establish our -
selves and to get where we are and 
to have somebody screw it up. And 
then to have Jewish organizations line 
up behind this guy and try to make 
him out a hero of the Jewish people, it 
bothers the hell out of me. ” 
Unmanned Aerial Vehicle research 
has been carried out at Jacobs School 
of Engineering for a dozen years. “Our challenge in San Diego is access 
to FAA-approved airspace for flight 
testing autonomous UAVs, ” said Prof. 
John Kosmatka at the 183,000-square-
foot Structural and Materials 
Engineering Building. Israeli security 
forces are relying on technological 
means and developments that facili -
tate a continuation of the occupation 
of Palestine with less manpower and 
government support. Drones allow 
for the daily operation of instruments 
of occupation, such as checkpoints, 
with fewer soldiers. Israel is looking to 
polish its image in the United States 
by strengthening economic ties. Ido 
Aharoni, Consul General of Israel in 
New Y ork, said that: When Americans 
think of Israel, overwhelmingly the 
first thing that comes to mind is the 
association with conflict, the fact that 
Israel is in dispute with its neighbors.
UCSD Professor [and] Qualcomm 
Executive Officer Nathan Fletcher is 
running for Mayor of San Diego. His 
election is of strategic importance in 
terms of positioning Israel not only 
in America but all over the world as a 
bastion of creativity and innovation.
How can a municipal executive 
cede 31 percent of an island on the 
border, or any amount of property, 
offshore, inland or elsewhere, to a for -
eign intelligence gatherer of scientific 
and technological information?  
— Richard Thompson
Alumnus ‘83Israel Looking to Grow 
Ties with U.S. Economy
/uni25B6 The Guardian  welcomes letters from its readers. 
All letters must be addressed, and written, to 
the editor of the Guardian . Letters are limited 
to 500 words, and all letters must include the 
writer’s name, college and year (undergraduates), 
department (graduate students or professors) or 
city of residence (local residents). A maximum 
of three signatories per letter is permitted. The 
Guardian Editorial Board reserves the right to 
edit for length, accuracy, clarity and civility. The 
Editorial Board reserves the right to reject letters 
for publication. Due to the volume of mail we 
receive, we do not confirm receipt or publication 
of a letter.
email: opinion@ucsdguardian.orgThe Suite 
Life of a 
Freshman’s 
First Year
Remember that one time when 
your suitemate threw up just 
as he walked through the front 
door? It happened to be on the car -
pet, in front of your room. Y ou’ d only 
assume that someone spilled water the 
night before, until another suitemate 
informed you of the aforementioned 
partygoer’s dignity spewed across the 
carpet. Or remember that other guy 
who found it too difficult to make it 
to the bathroom, so he threw up on 
your wall? I had noted that having a 
room closest to the bathroom had its 
few pros against its many, many cons. 
But most of all, no one would ever 
forget that guy who microwaved pizza 
for not three but 30 minutes. 
As smoke rushed out of the micro -
wave every nook and cranny of our 
living space, the fire alarm blared and 
my suite woke up our whole building 
at 12 a.m. What may have possibly 
ruined a couple’s rustle between the 
sheets actually made for a pretty 
memorable V alentine’s Day for having 
spent it with 10 other guys. 
This all happened my freshman 
year and may seem like it’s bound 
to happen to you yet, but within my 
series of columns, I’ll piece together 
how all of this came to be. If this has 
all ready happened, I applaud you for 
getting properly intoxicated during 
your first-year endeavors. But if you 
were like me during my freshman 
year, it took a while to build those 
bonds between suitemates. It was a lot 
of time, a little social coaxing and the 
realizations that I was with these nine 
other guys for the whole year and that 
I might as well make the most of it.
A thought that never struck me 
before was that when you first meet 
people — be it for seconds or a few 
minutes — there is always a chance 
that your initial connection can grow 
into something much more. Y ou really 
hope for these rich, fruitful conver -
sations to arise and from there, by 
means of actively pursuing the indi -
vidual (in the non-stalker and want-
to-be-friends sense) or happenstance 
a bond will form. These are hard to 
come by, but when it does happen, 
you’ve unknowingly created your 
lifelong friends. Fortunately, dorm life 
presents people with the groundwork 
for a friendship like this to form. If 
you’re brushing your teeth, and a suit -
emate walks in, talk. If you’re stopping 
at the market, invite the girls across 
the hall to tag along. If you finally 
decided to hit the gym, bring a buddy.
Granted, you feel like you haven’t 
been dealt the best suitemate hand — 
and you might be right. But you don’t 
want to come to that conclusion until 
you have at least given them a fair 
chance. What turned my freshman 
year from good to great was that I 
slowly and unknowingly changed my 
dorm, my suite, into my home. I no 
longer treated that corner of the cam -
pus I lived in just as a place to sleep 
but as a place where I could build 
relationships, grow and learn.
That’s where I stand as a sopho -
more. I surely do not want this col -
umn to act as a road map for a first 
year but to serve as an experienced 
opinion when it is needed. I say 
this because although my freshman 
experience was a mix of trial and 
error, great friends and a pinch of 
what common sense I had, there was 
always someone I could refer to when 
I needed to see out of my bubble. So 
here in this column, I delve back in 
time and recount the stories from sad 
to happy to absolutely unforgettable 
and hope that with this, freshman 
year becomes not just memorable but 
that year when you really set out to do 
all you ever wanted to do.
vincent  pham  vnp003 @ucsd.eduFreshmen   f aux  p as6     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | T HURSDAY , OCTOB ER 10, 2013 | WWW. UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG LIFESTYLE
Your Guide to the San Diego MTS
With all the wonders that San Diego offers, it can feel frustratingly inaccessible for those who 
do not have a reliable form of transportation. Luckily, the Metropolitan Transit System 
runs directly to UCSD so students have the opportunity to take a weekend outing and get 
to see why San Diego, beyond campus, is truly a unique and exciting place to be.
These two buses, which run from the bus stops near Gilman Parking Structure (traveling counterclockwise and 
clockwise, respectively), will take you in a small loop around La Jolla. Along the route is the La Jolla Village 
Square shopping center, which has food (California Pizza Kitchen, BJ’s Restaurant and Brewhouse, Sprinkles 
Cupcakes and more), an AMC movie theater and grocery stores (Ralphs and the beloved Trader Joe’s). If you stay on the bus past the shopping 
plaza, University Towne Center will be your next noteworthy destination. The recently rennovated outdoor mall has the usual assortment of 
fast-ish food restaurants, stores and entertainment in a compact location.
Accessible from multiple bus stops around campus (the V A medical center, Revelle College), the Route 30 serves as your 
route to reach Downtown La Jolla and the surrounding area. En route to Downtown, be sure to stop by La Jolla Shores if 
you’re in the mood to hit the beach. Further along the route will lead you to many notable food stop favorites of UCSD stu -
dents (George’s at the Cove, The Cottage, Cody’s and Puesto). For those who want to enjoy a more visceral experience, take a ride down 
to Pacific Beach, where tatto shops are as common as restaurants and bars on the packed Garnet strip — just make sure you’ll have a ride 
back because the MTS won’t run when you’re done. Download the app Lyft and grab a ride back with a car adorning a pink mustache.
Accessible from the bus stops next to Gilman Parking Structure, the Route 101 is the bus to ride for Southern 
California locals. The 101 runs by the Solana Beach Amtrak station for those who want to go home for the weekend 
but can’t catch a ride. Other than going home, the 101 runs through Del Mar, Encinitas and Carlsbad — all places 
worth visiting for food and cultural events. 
Accessible from the V A medical center and near Gilman Parking Structure, the 921 is the bus to take if you want to head 
east toward Mira Mesa. While Mira Mesa isn’t exactly well known for shopping malls and similar attractions, what it has to 
offer is an impressive selection of ethnic cuisine. Punjabi Tandoor (Indian), Siam Nara (Thai), Pho Ca Dao (Vietnamese) 
and Kebab Shop (Turkish) are all easily accessible along the 921 and will confirm Mira Mesa as a worthy place to visit when you and your 
friends want to try something new.
Accessible from the bus stops near the Gilman parking structure, one of the first stops that should be known to all UCSD stu -
dents is V allarta Express. This 24/7 fast-food Mexican establishment is a must-try for the tired, the poor and the wasted. From 
the 41, bus riders can also access Route 44 or Route 27 to get to Convoy Street in Kearny Mesa. This locale is a well-known 
center of Asian commerce, with a good supply of restaurants and specialty markets.
Taking the 41 to the end of its line will lead students to the vast outdoor shopping mall, Fashion V alley. UTC won’t likely be 
sufficient to provide shoppers the most satisfying consumer experience, so take a day trip to Fashion V alley to explore countless 
shops and enjoy the high-quality dining experience that’s provided in the area. 
Traveling from the V A medical center and bus stops near Gilman Parking Structure, the 150 will bring you into the heart of 
San Diego. A stop certainly worth taking is the one at the very end of the line at Balboa Park. Built in 1868 and a landmark 
of San Diego ever since, the park serves as a cultural hub for art, architecture and history. Balboa Park is also a convenient 
location for those who want to branch out and explore Downtown San Diego, where the Embarcadero and Gaslamp Quarter are not too 
far out of reach.201/202
30
101
921
15041
41Public transport has never offered so many opportunities.
BY VINCENT PHAM  LIFESTYLE EDITOR
            201/202
               101
                 41                150                150               921                 41            201/202                 30A&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | T HURSDAY , OCTOB ER 10, 2013 | WWW. UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 7
	



	
CHANGE THE WORLD FROM HERE"$$#$$$$  $
"$$#$$" $
"$$#$$ $
!$$$#$$
!$
$
$ $$#$$
  $ 
 $$$#$$$

$$$#$$$$#$	$$ $ $$
%$ $
$$ www.usfca.edu/asgrad
$ $$ 415.422.5101 $$$
asgraduate@usfca.edu
WHAT THESE?GET THIS!We’ve all heard the run-of-the-mill before-they-were-famous 
stories that musicians like to dust off their resume of 
accomplishments (and downfalls). Usually, there’s the fast 
food chain worker tale, with million-bucks-a-week earners fondly 
reminiscing their days of living under minimum wage. Once in 
awhile, we get a slightly more interesting variant to the rags-to-
riches trope, like living in a car until nabbing a record deal (looking 
at you, Jewel).
But graduating with a computer science degree at Stanford 
and working full-time as a software engineer before pursuing 
a music career is unheard of. Unless, of course, you are song -
stress Vienna Teng.
“By the time I graduated with my degree, I knew that I was going 
to work at it for a while, but basically, it was a faster way of waiting 
tables until I [could turn music into a full-time career], ” Teng — the 
stage name of Cynthia Yih Shih — said.
For the past four years, however, her music had been put on 
hold. A self-professed nerd, Teng took a hiatus from music to attend 
graduate school in business and environmental science and sustain -
ability at the University of Michigan in Detroit. She returned to the studio this year to record a new album “ Aims, ” released Sept. 24.
“Coming back to grad school is definitely a very different experi -
ence from my undergrad experience, where I have a music career 
already, and if I set up a web-streaming concert then there will actu -
ally be a couple hundred people who will tune in, ” Teng said, whose 
fans recently quadrupled her Kickstarter campaign’s goal of $20,000 
to fund a music video and an international tour.
Earlier this summer, she kicked off her “ Aims” tour in Del Mar, 
but almost half a decade is a long time for a musician to be away 
from the stage. As she arrived at an Ann Arbor venue, Teng humbly 
joked that she may forget how to perform some of her songs.
Needless to say, there’s no doubt that her musical delivery is any -
thing short of her potential. Aside from her famed use of a cappella 
and innovative live-looping (as demonstrated in her Eminem-Ben 
Withers medley) which are staples of her onstage performances, 
Teng’s latest album will introduce her newfound love for Detroit. 
The ode to her time in graduate school reveals an unprecedented 
eclectic, vibrant side to her music.
“I used to call my music ‘chamber folk, ’” Teng said, recall -
ing the Dvorak-influenced sounds of her earliest records. “It 
In an exclusive interview with the Guardian, 
singer-songwriter Vienna Teng talks college, her 
heritage and her latest musical effort.B Y JACQUELINE  KIM  
A&E  EDITOR      AIMING
FOR HER
LEVEL
BEST
So, we’re in college. We’re 
broadening our horizons, as 
it were. The idea, I’m pretty 
sure, is that we’re supposed to meet 
people who aren’t like us, hear ideas 
that are new to us and basically get 
tossed into a big, confusing melting 
pot to teach us how to cope with the 
big, confusing thing that is life. For 
just a moment, reserve any judgment 
on whether college actually achieves 
any of these things and consider 
something much more basic. Think 
about how your musical tastes have 
changed since you arrived at school. 
Y ou’ve started listening to a whole 
bunch of different artists and genres, 
probably. Y ou might want to attri -
bute this to your superbly refined 
taste, but at least part of this expan -
sion is due to all the new music you 
can’t avoid hearing at college, wheth -
er it be from your hipster roommate 
worshipping Animal Collective, 
fratty DJs on Library Walk pumping 
out Avicii or Danny Brown scream-
rapping at Sun God. Even if you 
don’t want to, by the sheer volume 
and range of the music assaulting 
you, you’re going to leave college 
with a better grasp of music than 
you had when you got here.
And that’s great. But at that 
same time, music is only a frac -
tion of art as a whole. Being a good 
music listener is like being able 
to make one food dish really well: 
You’ l l  b e  a  h it  at  p ot lu c k s ,  but  du r -
ing the quotidian business of eat -
ing, you’ll be stuck eating the same 
damn thing every day.
All of which is really a long 
way of saying that it’s important 
to branch out. Right now all of us 
have a unique opportunity to do 
that. Beyond having less respon -
sibility than you will ever have 
again, our city is a great place to 
explore different forms of art. On A Change 
of  Heart, a 
Change
of  Art
sebastian  brady  sebrady@ucsd.eduBetween the FrameS
See AIMS, page 8 See CHANGE , page 88     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | T HURSDAY , OCTOB ER 10, 2013 | WWW. UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG A&E
features a lot of classical instru -
ments, so it’s definitely more rooted 
in that music. With [“ Aims”], I’ve 
been describing it more [as] ‘pop’ 
or ‘indie pop, ’ and now I mention it 
there are obviously some electronic 
elements to it. ”
Although her genre crossover has 
proved a great contrast to her past 
hits, like 2002’s Baroque pop “Gravity, ” 
Teng’s new electronica pop sounds 
won’t be booting out her beloved 
piano in favor of synthesizers anytime 
soon, given that her lifelong classical 
education in piano was what drove 
her to pursue a music career.
“When I was in high school, 
I had a really great piano teacher 
who one day had me write down all 
the different dreams I had … [and] 
the goals and strategies for achiev -
ing them. It was … life changing. 
One of the things I wrote down 
was, ‘I want to be a performing 
musician, a composer. ’ … By the 
time I got to college, I really wanted 
to make that happen, ” Teng said.
However, Teng also promises that 
her tour will highlight a genre switch.
“The new set is so dense and 
complex and electronically driven, ” 
Teng said. “[But] there will also be 
moments with just the piano [so the 
audience can] feel like they remember 
the kind of thing I used to do. ”For years, Teng’s aspirations 
seemed like a pipe dream at the 
time to skeptics, including her 
Taiwanese parents.
“It was a cultural struggle for 
them, because they were like, ‘Well, 
we don’t know artists and entertain -
ers, ’” Teng said. “It’s taken some time 
for me to introduce them to the idea 
that creative people aren’t all crazy, 
and they’re not all people who are 
oblivious to financial reality. ”
Though her family’s discourage -
ment didn’t deter their daughter from 
the path of a music career, Teng also 
attributes her personal interests as well 
as the content of her signature literate 
lyrics to her parents’ influence.
“I think that it’s important to 
my parents that their kids be intel -
lectual in some way and to present 
themselves as intelligent, empathetic 
human beings, ” Teng said. “So I think 
that it does come across in my music 
that they instilled that in me. It is 
something that I genuinely want to 
communicate: […] there’s also some -
thing really important to look at in 
the wider world and to be involved in 
where humanity is going and to figure 
out what my place is in it. ”
Certainly the sort of intellectual 
discourse that Teng strives to achieve 
in her songs branched into all aspects 
of the making of “ Aims, ” including her 
decision to use a map depicting popu -
lation changes in Detroit — her home during her musical hiatus — for the 
album’s cover art.
“When I look at that map, … 
there was the notion that that map 
looks like so many other things, 
[such as depicting] some people who 
are really trying to work together 
across Democrat-Republican lines, ” 
Teng said. “ Also that map [made 
me think] this accounts for a lot of 
things that are going on in the world 
right now. Y ou can look and first 
[think], ‘Wow, there’s a lot of bad 
stuff going on. ’ It can seem like [the 
people of Detroit] should just give 
up. On the other hand, you can look 
closer and say, ‘Y ou know, people are 
really fighting their way to stay on 
top of [it]. ’”
Indeed, this describes her message 
in “ Aims” in a nutshell. Teng sings in 
her latest single “Level Up, ” “Begin 
again/ Dynamite the dam on the flow/ 
… / Lord, we are all cinders/ From a 
fire burning long ago/ But here it is 
the knock knock knock of your own 
heart that matters. ” The Renaissance 
woman’s novel approach to music and 
her vision to shape the world into a 
better place makes her a standout — 
not to mention that she may be the 
only musician who knows how to use 
“sustainability” in a sentence several 
times coherently.
campus, we have the free University 
Art Gallery, just past Sun God 
Lawn, and the La Jolla Playhouse, 
a theater started by Gregory Peck. 
(Not sure who he is? Check out 
his Oscar-winning performance 
in “To Kill A Mockingbird!”) A 
few minutes away, there’s the La 
Jolla branch of the Museum of 
Contemporary Art, where you 
can get in with nothing but your 
student ID. That same ID will 
get you into the main museum 
branch in downtown San Diego for 
free, too. These museums rotate 
through must-see installations from 
world-famous artists; for example, 
“Lifelike, ” an exhibit featured at the 
La Jolla branch this spring, brought 
in works from Andy Warhol and Ai 
Weiwei. The San Diego Symphony 
(OK, I know I just said to move 
beyond music, but let’s face it: 
Radiohead and Rachmaninoff are 
not the same) has student ticket 
prices for a ridiculous $10 for most 
concerts. And these are just a cou -ple of the more accessible options 
for students.
But one of the reasons not 
everyone takes advantage of these 
opportunities is that the artistic 
experience you get in these places 
is, frankly, harder than what we’re 
used to. In most popular music, 
lyrics are in standard English. The 
instruments are much the same. 
The musical structure rarely varies. 
The uniformity of it all is com -
forting, and whatever message is 
contained within the song is impos -
sible to miss. In a contemporary 
art museum, though, things get 
trickier. It’s harder to “get it. ” I’ve 
spent a lot (or really, all) of my 
visits to museums feeling like I’m 
on the outside of some sophisti -
cated, beautiful inside joke. I doubt 
that I’m alone, and I bet that’s a 
big reason why people get turned 
off by “high art. ” That feeling is 
disconcerting. It’s even downright 
disturbing.
But that’s kind of the point. 
Somebody once said, “ Art should 
comfort the disturbed and disturb the comfortable. ” While that seems 
a bit dramatic for this conversation, 
it’s still relevant. The whole reason 
behind art, in many ways, is not 
to make us feel better about our 
cushy situations; it’s to make us feel 
uncomfortable in them. And while 
this has implications for the actual 
content of artwork, it also means 
that it can’t just beat us over the head 
with its meaning or significance. To 
fulfill its purpose and help us fulfill 
ours, art sometimes needs to con -
fuse us. Simply because the art we 
encounter outside of popular music 
and television is so foreign to us, it 
will do exactly that. That’s good.
So to wrap up the pedantry, don’t 
let the remarkable opportunity of 
being a college student in a city full 
of accessible artistic life go to waste. 
Walk around a photography exhibit 
with the requisite crossed arms and 
furrowed brow. Go see some abstract 
paintings and nod knowingly at 
them, even if you’re lost. Y ou’ll prob -
ably be confused. Embrace it. Do it 
enough, and maybe, hopefully, you’ll 
even be disturbed.All he needs is his church, his 
car, his family, his girls and 
his porn — and lots of it at 
that. Don Jon, as many of his party 
friends call him, goes day and night 
revamping his narcissistic ego and 
sharpening his personal count of 
one-night stands in order to avoid 
his dissatisfaction with life.
Jon Martello, Jr. (Joseph 
Gordon-Levitt, “500 Days of 
Summer”), a bratty stud, finds an 
unusual passion for vast amounts 
of pornography, downloading 
and streaming it on his computer 
or phone. His fetish becomes an 
obstacle when he is met with the 
conundrum of choosing porn 
over a long-term relationship 
— even as he falls in love with Barbara, (Scarlett Johansson, “The 
Avengers”), who attempts to set 
him straight. Yet Jon’s life turns 
upside down when his newfound 
love Barbara catches him mastur -
bating to porn after having sex with 
her for the first time. Barbara, with 
her unrealistic perception of love 
based on stereotypical romantic 
comedies, finds that Jon’s interest in 
porn falls short of anything prom -
ising. Needless to say, the lovers’ 
conflicting desires end up push -ing them away from each other. A 
battle between reality and fantasy 
drives Jon to seek his religion as an 
escape but ultimately turns to his 
family and an acquaintance Esther 
(Julianne Moore, “Boogie Nights”) 
to help him escape and wake up 
from his superficial lens. 
The film is reminiscent of a 
“Jersey Shore” and “Grease” abomina -
tion at first, but pushes to speak of 
deeper issues of sexual objectifica -
tion, pornography. The slicked back greaser hair, the less-than-classy Italo-
American accent and the Snooki-
looking outfits can be hit-or-miss 
for this film, but its strong meaning 
acknowledges Gordon-Levitt’s writing 
and directing debut as above par. The 
film succeeds with a brilliant cast, out -
standing acting and a mind-bending 
storyline.
“Don Jon” dares to speak of obses -
sion, addiction and compulsion, and 
illustrates how the elements that drive 
and define our lives can impede nor -mal, productive behavior. The film 
illuminates this view by submerging 
the audience in a tunnel vision of 
emotions. The characters’ personali -
ties enhance the viewer’s connection 
to the film with sadness, hatred and 
pain. Nonetheless, the film does a 
great job in subduing the darker 
aspects of the morality of pornogra -
phy, non-monogamous relationships 
and sexual objectification of women 
with an unorthodox style of acting 
that makes “Don Jon” a forthcoming 
cinematic beauty. 
“Don Jon” confronts pornogra -
phy as a medium by putting it in the 
context — and in the way — of love. 
Porn surfaces as an escape from any 
meaningful physical interaction with 
a person, and love becomes a fact of 
fiction as a result. Two extremes — 
Jon’s purely erotic view of “love” and 
Barbara’s romanticized fairytale per -
spective — collide to explain that love 
can be whatever you make of it.
All in all, “Don Jon” will be sure 
to spice the box office as a film for 
daring couples, singles and Joseph 
Gordon-Levitt aficionados. The film is 
not for the faint of heart, but it prom -
ises to prompt hordes of conversations 
about what love can be.
—     MAn U EL  FLO RES
         Staff  Writer"Don  jon"  M OVIE   R EVIE W
Joseph Gordon-Levitt 
shines in his major 
motion picture debut as a 
screenwriter and director.
"Old" 
by   danny  brown
Release Date Oct. 8
Danny Brown creates an insidiously dark party record 
that is catchy, electrifying and tortured all at once.
When Danny Brown per -
formed at the Sun God 
Festival last year, his act 
was a sweaty clamor of bouncing 
beats and over-the-top lyrics. The 
“molly rap” infusion of trap and 
EDM-style production fit well with 
the frantic spitting from the Detroit 
rapper. This year, he gives us a two-
sided album that is at odds with 
itself: Brown is drowning in party 
mania for some tracks, but on oth -
ers, he explores an understated, 
jaded side of himself that is associ -
ated more with his older albums. 
Brown battles between letting go 
of his “old” self and trying to enjoy 
his new life as a (more) acces -
sible rapper and a notorious party 
monster. He described his sound 
in a recent Rolling Stone interview: 
“It’s like hiding a pill in ice cream 
or something. Give motherfuckers 
the sweets first before giving them 
the medicine. ” This wild dichotomy 
makes for quite a maniacal listen.
Side A presents Brown explor -
ing his preoccupied psyche before 
fame and critical success jettisoned 
him into online success. His ‘hood 
in Detroit doesn’t offer many fond 
childhood memories: “Got rocked 
in his dome/ Mama picked me up 
and ran home” he says on “Torture, ” 
a jarring song with a haunting vocal 
sample backed up against a racing 
snare. No matter where Danny goes, 
his childhood isn’t far behind. “I 
feel like a prisoner of war/ Reacting 
sporadically to what the mind 
absorbs. ” It’s a sobering reflection 
that takes place just before the 
album’s adrenaline kicks in.However, even the harder molly 
rap songs on Side B, while display -
ing unrelenting, thizzed out beats, 
hit us with lyrics that are less than 
carefree. “I done drunk too much 
I might throw up in a hotel bath -
room sink, ” he croaks over the 
grimy SKYWLKR-produced single, 
“Dip. ” “I’m blown, I’m zooted/ 
Can’t believe that I’m even moving. ” 
This hardcore imagery of his life 
is matched by the booming 808s 
throughout this side of the album, 
which could turn any crowd into a 
mosh pit. Danny’s schizoid shtick 
is on full display with conflict -
ing themes of fun and horror. His 
music is as manic as he is, but it’s 
far from boring.
“Old” is an enthralling project 
and a solid conceptual follow up 
to “XXX, ” in which Brown gave us 
a glimpse of a life lived in excess. 
Listeners got the party and the 
comedown — in that order. This 
album accomplishes a similar feat 
but is even more introspective and 
candid, laced with drugged-out 
rhymes and a delivery that ranges 
from low-key to turned-up. It’s a 
musical allegory for who he is as 
a rapper and as a person, appeal -
ing to his underground base while 
creating a colorful, obscure and — 
at times — mind-bending album. 
Despite all of its gloom, however, 
“Old” is catchy, engaging and just 
plain berserk.
—     brian  i n i gu ez
         Staff  WriterALBUM   RE VIE W From Pipe Dream to Reality: Stanford Grad Turns to Music 
Confusion and Disturbance Needed for Artistic Understanding/uni25B6 AIMS,  from page 7
readers  can  contact
JGK 002 @ucsd.edu  
/uni25B6 CHANGE,  from page 7
Fat Sal’s is Pacific Beach’s own 
New York-style deli, co-owned 
by Joshua Stone, Salvatore 
“Fat Sal” Capek and Jerry Ferrara 
(most famous for playing “Turtle” 
in HBO’s “Entourage”). Open every 
day from 11 a.m. to 3 a.m., Fat Sal’s 
is the place to go to refuel after a 
long day of biking, working or at 2 
a.m. when you’ve got a severe case 
of the “drunchies. ”
As a vegetarian who tries to eat 
fairly healthy, I never thought a 
restaurant with the name “Fat” in 
its title would top my list of go-to 
eateries, but the menu does accom -
modate vegetarians, carnivores and 
health nuts alike. Fat Sal’s’ main 
attraction is its meat-heavy sand -
wiches, so I brought along my friend, 
Muir College sophomore Martha 
Gutierrez, as my onsite carnivore.
Martha tried the most popu -
lar sandwich on the menu, the 
Fat Jerry ($8.95), which is made 
on extra-wide hero bread and is 
stuffed with cheese steak, chicken 
fingers, mozzarella sticks, bacon, 
fried eggs, fries, ketchup and may -
onnaise. Although the combination 
seemed outlandish, after a couple of 
bites, Martha gave it a thumbs up. 
I was pleasantly surprised by the 
vegetarian offerings: Fat Sal’s serves 
a veggie burger ($3.25) made in-house with fresh veggies and grains, 
layered with thin slices of onion, 
lettuce and pickles and topped with 
homemade mayonnaise. The staff is 
very attentive, making sure we had 
plenty of sandwiches to try. We also 
tried Strawberry Sprite ($2.25) and 
enjoyed free refills from their infa -
mous freestyle soda machine, which 
offers more than 120 different soda 
flavors at the press of a button. 
After trying an array of sand -
wiches, it was time for the shakes. 
The staff brought out four of their 
five Fat Shakes ($5.95). The most 
unique creation was the coffee 
ice cream shake, which had dark 
chocolate and pretzels crumbled on 
top. The strawberry milkshake — a 
creamy combination of strawber -
ries, graham cracker crumbs and a 
whole slice of N.Y. cheesecake — is 
also not to be missed.
The layout of the restaurant 
is open and modern, with a 
front patio that overlooks Garnet 
Avenue, an indoor seating area and 
a large, covered patio seating area 
lined with flat screen TVs. Two and 
a half blocks away from the beach 
and surrounded by bars, Fat Sal’s’ 
location is optimal for hanging out after a day at the beach or after a 
long night of bar hopping in PB.
With fun menu items like 
Pepperoni Pizza Fries ($5.95) and a 
soundtrack of Kendrick Lamar and 
Biggie Smalls, Fat Sal’s is definitely 
geared toward college students and 
young adults. 
Fat Sal’s is the place to go after 
you’ve worked up a big appetite; it 
is comfortable and affordable for 
the massive amount of food you 
get. Though PB may seem like a 
trek, it’s only a 15-minute drive 
from campus and there is plenty of 
street parking. On Monday nights 
there is even more of a reason 
to go. “We just started Monday 
College Night, where students with 
a UCSD student I.D. get a free 
order of fries and a soda with the 
purchase of a sandwich, ” Stone said.
The craftsmanship that goes 
into each item, the care from the 
staff and the over the top menu 
gives the place a fun environment 
and provides an eating experience 
you can’t get from your average 
sandwich shop.LIFESTYLE  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | T HURSDAY , OCTOB ER 10, 2013 | WWW. UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 9
SI TE  SEEN
Beer, Babes and Brats:  
Oktoberfest in San Diego
Toss on your dirndl, crank up 
that Schlager and Prost — it’s 
Oktoberfest!
Although the traditional cel -
ebration of Oktoberfest (or “die 
Wies’n,” to the European origina -
tors) ended with the first weekend 
of October, San Diego is keeping 
the beer flowing and the party 
going with another weekend of the 
annual celebration. Ocean Beach 
will hold its two-day celebration on 
Friday, Oct. 11 from 4:30 p.m. to 11 
p.m. and Saturday, Oct. 12 from 11 
a.m. to 11 p.m. 
Located right beside the coast 
and along the pier, the festival will 
feature cash prize-based events 
like a battle of the bands ($3,000) 
and the even bigger Sausage Toss 
($10,000), where you really just 
throw a sausage in a tub. Ocean 
Beach will also hold its second 
annual Brat Trot Beach Run — the 
proceeds will go toward funding 
local sports programs.Coinciding with the Ocean 
Beach event is St. Elizabeth’s 
Annual Oktoberfest in Julian on 
Saturday, Oct. 12 and Sunday, Oct. 
13 from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. (2033 
Main St., Julian). If the long drive 
doesn’t scare away visitors, all who 
attend will enjoy the quaintness 
of Julian itself. And while you’re 
there, check out its annual Apple 
Celebration (Sept. 1 to Oct. 15), 
which is a town-wide event of all 
things apple related.
As fall quarter picks up, take 
your chance now and go out one 
last time for a weekend before 
real school commitments kick in. 
And if you’re a real beer connois -
seur, think of these as pregames 
to the much bigger San Diego-
centric event — San Diego Beer 
Week (Nov. 1 to Nov. 10). So grab 
a friend and a pint, and get your -
selves in gear for the best autumn 
of your college career.BY  v i n c e n t   p h a m   lifestyle  editorHours Monday through Sunday 
11 a.m. to 3 p.m.
Location  956 Garnet Ave., San 
Diego, CA 92109
Recommended Fat Jerryfat   s a l ' s   d e l iRES TAURAN T    RE VIE W
readers  can  contactreaders  can  contact
Shelb y New allis     Snewallis@ucsd.edu  vincent  pham     vnp003@ucsd.edu  BY   s h e l by   n e w a l l i s   
Editorial  Assistant
10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 10, 2013 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSClassifieds$
Gua rdian Classi/f_ieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT^^^\JZKN\HYKPHUVYNJSHZZPÄLKZClassifieds$
Gua rdian Classi/f_ieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT^^^\JZKN\HYKPHUVYNJSHZZPÄLKZELECTRONICS
G5 Apple Computer Selling - $450 - G5 
Apple Computer For Sale. Nothing wrong 
with it, just missing one button off the key -
board. Military family relocating, trying to 
get rid of miscellaneous furniture. Price has 
been lowered from $600 to $450. Please 
call 7577684366 or Text 6199935118 if inter -
ested. Listing ID: 68640902 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
LTO 4 Backup Tapes - $24.95 - SUN 
STORAGETEK LTO 4 Tape, LTO-4, LTO 
Ultrium 4 Tape Cartridge 003-4394-01. SUN 
STORAGETEK LTO 4 ULTRIUM .San Diego. 
http://www.shop.usaimagingsupplies.
com/LTO-4-SUN-003-4394-01-003-4394-01.
htm?categoryId=-1. Listing ID: 67855821 at 
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
BIKES
Free Agent bmx Race bike - $450.00 - FREE 
AGENT BMX Race bicycle (Super clean, 
almost Immaculate bike sold in the U.S.A. in 
1997). Frame Stickers are Original and next to 
Perfect. The bike was disassembled and then 
Re-assembled using MAXIMA Waterproof 
Grease. Bike was Tuned and Adjusted by 
a bmx Mechanic & Racer (40 Years expe -
rience). Bike fits Teenagers to Adult Men 
and has Many New. Listing ID: 67552538 at 
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
SE Wildman 2011 obo - $180 - SE Wildman.. 
rides smooth nothing wrong with it. needs 
chain cause the other 1 was rusted n i took 
it off. no brakes. bike looks like this. Odyssey 
pedals. Fit eastern bmx animal stolen bike 
bikes. Listing ID: 70742298 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
GT Roadbike very nice - $500 - Great bike, 
good investment I just can’t keep it. 500 
or best offer Thx. Listing ID: 70742301 at 
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
HARO Mirra 20 bmx XL bike - 275.00 - Up for 
sale is another great performing bmx bike 
from my collection. I collect bmx bikes for 
personal use, and also offer them up for sale. 
Complete the grid so
each row, column and
3-by-3 box (in bold
borders) contains
every digit, 1 to 9. For
strategies on how to
solve Sudoku, visit
www.sudoku.org.uk
SOLUTION TO
SATURDAY’S PUZZLE
Level:
1 2
3 4
© 2009 The Mepham Group. Distributed by
Tribune Media Services. All rights reserved.9/14/09Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies 
on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.ukLevel: 1234
Level: 1234Level: 1234Level: 1234Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
Level:
12
34Level:
12
34Level: 1234Level: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
This HARO Mirra 540 has Chro-moly frame, 
forks and bars. The dimensions are awesome 
for bigger riders. XL frame 21” 1/2” with a 
14” rear end, excellent for manualing. This 
bike has been thoroughly rebuilt. Listing ID: 
66880464 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
FURNITURE
Leather Furniture Set - 650.00 - 4 piece black 
furniture set need gone ASAP . It’s in good 
condition. Listing ID: 69705847 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information. 
Solid wood bed - $200.00 - Solid wood frame 
bed. For 200$ if you would like the box spring 
and new mattress will do 400$ total. Let me 
know if you have any questions or would 
like to see some photos! Having trouble 
loading on my phone. Bed is about a year 
old in great condition! -Virginia. Listing ID: 
70897633 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
Graphic Design Service for Student Organizations!
Located in PC East, 3rd Floorasgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu
tyour vision,
our mission.
The Associated Students Store Contact outfitters@ucsd.edu for more info.Create custom apparel to promote your
student organization with Triton Outfitter's
new Made TO Order  program!
as.ucsd.edu
SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | T HURSDAY , OCTOB ER 10, 2013 | WWW. UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 11
MEN' S  G OLF
The UCSD men’s golf team fin -
ished in eighth place at the Wildcat 
Classic Tournament season opener 
this Monday, Oct. 7, in Corning, Calif., 
with sophomore Clayton Y amaguchi 
leading the way for the Tritons.
The 15-team tournament included 
host school and tournament champion 
Chico State, which shot a 5 under 571, 
the only school that finished below par. 
Chico State senior Ricky Owaki 
led the Wildcats, winning the individ -
ual title with a seven under par, three 
strokes ahead of Cal State Stanislaus’ 
Anthony Manguray. The defending 
champions Cal State Stanislaus fin -
ished second, coming eight strokes 
behind the Wildcats.
Other notable conference oppo -
nents included Cal State East Bay and 
Cal State San Bernardino, which fin -
ished third and 11th, respectively.
The Tritons were in eighth place at 
the end of day one, hitting 31 over par 
for a total score of 607 on the par-72, 
6,917-yard course. Y amaguchi, UCSD’s 
top finisher, tied for seventh place out 
of a field of 81. After a 5-over 77 in the 
first round, Y amaguchi bounced back 
to hit a respectable 5 under 67 in the second round, hitting a birdie on the 
fifteenth hole and missing the tourna -
ment record by only one stroke. 
“My eagle on [the 15th hole] was 
probably the highlight of the tourna -
ment for me, ” Y amaguchi said. “I hit 
a great drive down the middle of the 
fairway and had 224 yards left … I hit 
a great hybrid onto the green about 25 
feet away from the hole. At that point 
in the round, my putting had really 
clicked in and I was confident. ”
Fellow Tritons who also compet -
ed include sophomore Daniel Y ang 
finishing 34th overall, senior Jacob 
Williams placing 40th, senior Lewis 
Simon, who tied for 57th and junior 
Jay Lim, who ended up 62nd.
Making his Triton debut was first 
year head coach Jim Ragan, who had 
arrived to the La Jolla campus only a 
week ago. 
“I really enjoyed seeing our guys 
compete today for the first time, ” Ragan 
— former head coach at the University 
of Oklahoma, the University of Texas 
and V anderbilt University — said to 
the UCSD Athletics Department. “We 
had a couple of bright spots, including 
Clayton’s 67 in the second round and 
Jacob (Williams) shooting a 29 on the 
front nine in round one. On the other hand, we lost a lot of shots out there 
and hopefully we can settle down to 
post a strong team score tomorrow. ”
Y amaguchi said that even though 
the team has had only limited time 
with its new coach, Ragan was still able 
to prepare the players mentally for the 
tournament. 
“Coach hasn’t really prepared us for 
a tournament as he normally would 
given the situation, ” Y amaguchi said. 
“He has mostly prepared us by creating 
a clear mindset for us. This mind -
set helps us to develop clarity and 
allows us to really just go out there 
and play our best. ”
Extremely windy conditions 
forced the tournament to end early, 
preventing the Tritons from com -
pleting the second half of the tour -
nament. The team ended up tying 
for eighth with Northwest Nazarene 
University.
“It’s disappointing that the final 
round was cancelled, because I 
believed that my team and I could 
have used it to move up the lead -
erboard, ” Yamaguchi said. “But the 
winds were pretty gusty, and the 
course was not set up correctly for 
the conditions. Once the winds 
started blowing balls off the greens, the course really became unfair and 
unplayable. ”
The team looks to rebound next 
week as it travels to Santa Rosa Golf 
and Country Club for the Sonoma 
State Invitational  which will be held 
on Oct. 14 and Oct. 15. 
“I think this past week was a 
good time for preparations for next week’s tournament,” Yamaguchi 
said. “ All of us have our own indi -
vidual things to work on in order 
to improve for next week, and with 
Coach helping to provide clarity for 
us, we expect to play much better. ” Golf  Places Eighth at Chico Invite
The Tritons participated under the direction of new head coach Jim Ragan.
BY   b r a n d o n   y u  contributing  writer
readers  can  contact
brandon  yu     b2yu@ucsd.edu  
Tritons Retur n Home to Face San Ber nardino and Chico State, Second Half  of  the Season Begins
hasn’t let a goal slip by since mid-Sep -
tember and the strength of a veteran 
attack — the Tritons took the 2–0 
win against Cal State East Bay. In the 
27th minute, Bauman — an offense-
minded winger and a nice new addi -
tion in Pascale’s starting 11 — found 
junior transfer Alessandro Canale in the 16-yard box. From 10 yards out, 
Canale put away his fourth goal of 
the season in just seven appearances. 
Barely a minute later, Bauman 
worked his way down the sideline 
and crossed a ball to senior defend -
er Alec Arsht — named the CCAA 
Player of the Week — who found the 
back of the net. 
“The one thing that I thought we did well with this weekend was 
not getting complacent, ” Cohen said. 
“We’re always staying hungry. The 
wins we’ve got now were hard-fought 
wins, and we’re not going to let up. ”
UCSD is now halfway through its 
conference schedule and is preparing 
to double-back on its CCAA oppo -
nents. And with eight games left in the 
regular season, Pascale says he hasn’t “seen the best of [his] team yet.”
“I don’t think [the second half of 
the season] will be too much differ -
ent, ” Pascale said. “Every game we’ve 
played has been really challenging 
and very much a grind-it-out kind of 
game. We’re a veteran team, and the 
guys all know that there are no days 
off, no easy games and no one’s just 
going to hand us the win. ”This weekend, the Tritons will 
return home to face Cal State San 
Bernardino (4-6-2 overall, 2–6 in the 
CCAA) on Friday. On Sunday, UCSD 
will face Chico State — just one point 
behind the Tritons in the conference 
standings./uni25B6 SOCCER,  from page 12
readers  can  contact
RACH EL  UDA     RUDa@ucsd.edu  PHOTO  COURT ESY UCSD  ATHLETICSSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
RACHEL  UDA
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | T HURSDAY , OCTOB ER 10, 2013 | WWW. UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 
MEN' S  S OCC ER
Conference Overall
UCSD
CHICO  ST A T E
cal  st a te  
dominguez   hills
cal  pol y  
pa m o n acA L ST A T E  L.A.
cal  st a te  san
bernardinoGP PTS Records Win % GF GA GP Records Win % GF GA
8
8
8
8
8
819
18
17
14
11
66-1-1
6-2
5-1-2
4-2-2
3-3-2
2-60.812
0.750
0.750
0.625
0.500
0.25010
12
10
17
11
42
6
5
9
8
1010
10
10
10
10
128-1-1
8-2
7-1-2
5-2-2
5-3-2
4-6-20.850
0.800
0.800
0.700
0.600
0.41715
15
19
22
18
103
6
6
9
9
10Streak Last  10
8-1-1
8-2
7-1-2
5-2-2
5-3-2
3-4-1won    6
won    3
won    1
WON    1
LoST    1
Lost  6
MEN' S  TENN IS
In the second week of preseason 
action, the UCSD men’s tennis team 
began October with eight lost singles 
matches at the Aztec Invitational at San 
Diego State University, facing tough 
competition against a slew of Division-I 
teams — including the University of 
Arizona, Grand Canyon University, 
Loyola Marymount University, the 
University of the Pacific, SDSU, UC 
Irvine, UCLA and USC.
As a young team at the start of a 
new season, the Tritons seemed over -
whelmed, with eight losses during the 
first two flights of tournament play 
alone. UCSD head coach Timmer 
Willing felt unsatisfied with his team’s 
overall performance. 
“I think it was pretty average, ” 
Willing told The Guardian. “We have 
a lot of work to do.
Of a total of 16 singles matches, the 
Tritons won only three. Not until their 
10th singles match did the Tritons 
find victory with senior Maxence 
Dutreix’s win against Grand Canyon’s 
Rafael Lira with scores of 7–6, 0–6, 10–8. However, Dutreix lost his subse -
quent match 6–3, 6–4 against UCLA ’s 
Michael Guzman.
Junior Guy Giubilato also earned 
the Tritons a win against Grand 
Canyon’s Jacob Spizman, dominating 
the match with scores of 6–2, 6–0.
UCSD’s third win meant little, as it 
came from junior Andrew Malozsak’s 
match against fellow Triton teammate 
and junior Kona Luu. Malozsak won 
with commanding scores of 6–3, 6–2.
“I think there’s some glaring weak -
nesses we need to focus on, ” Willing 
said.
In the doubles bracket, Malozsak 
paired up with senior Devin Sousa for 
the first time. Together, the duo had a 
standout performance on an otherwise 
lackluster weekend, upsetting Grand 
Canyon’s Meidy Chazeau and Jacob 
Spizman with a convincing score of 
8–1 in the doubles round of 32. 
“I thought me [sic] and Malozsak 
played pretty well considering it was 
our first time playing together in a 
match, ” Sousa said. “We worked well 
together. ”
Other than one singles match last February, this weekend was Malozsak’s 
first opportunity at any collegiate 
action. Willing said he was surprised 
by the Sousa-Malozsak performance 
but glad to see the result.
But the pair was eliminated in 
their round of 16 contest, losing to 
Arizona’s Fredrik Ask and Naoki 
Takeda with a score of 8–4.
Malozsak and Sousa’s round of 
32 victory was UCSD’s only doubles 
win out of five matches. 
“The beginning of the preseason 
is tough with our first tournaments, ” Sousa said. “The competition has 
proven to be a little bit tougher than 
previous years. ”
This early in the season, Sousa 
said they have yet to determine their 
final pairings and lineups, but the 
Tritons certainly hope to work out 
the kinks early on.
“Our goal is to return to the 
NCAAs, and I think that is attain -
able with this group. But it is up to 
us, ” Willing said. “If we can work 
out some of the details and kinks we 
had in the offseason and be ready at the start of the season, we can con -
trol our situation. ”
The Tritons will head to Santa 
Barbara this coming weekend to 
take part in the UCSB classic start -
ing Friday. 
The team, however, will be with -
out Sousa — out with an injured 
groin — and sophomore Ganesh 
Alagappan — sidelined with a bad 
back    — for the tournament. Tritons Face Tough 
Competition at SDSU
Men’s tennis fell at the San Diego State Invitational.
BY   D A NIEL  SU NG CONTRIBUTING  writer
readers  can  contact
DA NIEL  SU NG     DSUNG@ucsd.edu  For a team that hasn’t qualified for the confer -
ence tournament in eight seasons, the Tritons 
now find themselves in unfamiliar territory 
— ranked No. 6 nationally and sitting in first place 
in the California Collegiate Athletics Association 
standings. 
With last weekend’s pair of shutout wins against 
Cal State Stanislaus and Cal State East Bay, the 
Tritons improve to 8-1-1 overall and 6-1-1 in the 
CCAA. 
“It was not an easy road trip, facing both the 
defending conference tournament champions and 
an East Bay team that’s been hot, ” UCSD head coach 
Jon Pascale said. “We’ve had problems playing [at 
Stanislaus] in the past, and I thought the guys did a 
great job and did what we needed to do. ”
On Friday, the Tritons topped last season’s CCAA 
tournament champions Stanislaus 2–0. In the 22nd 
minute, senior midfielder Cory Wolfrom tucked away a goal on a ball played from junior 
midfielder Brandon Bauman. The Tritons 
followed up with a goal from senior mid -
fielder Andisheh Bagheri early in the 
second half to seal the win.
“We played a really solid 
game against Stanislaus, ” 
UCSD senior goalkeep -
er Josh Cohen said. 
“We had a lot of 
opportunities 
to score, and 
Stanislaus 
d i d n’ t 
r e a l l y 
put too many chances 
together. We played our style and put together 
a good performance. ”
In similar fashion — relying on a defense that 
Six Straight
With six wins in a row, the UCSD men’s soccer team is now 
ranked No. 6 in the country and first in conference.
B Y  RACH EL   UDA  SPORTS  EDITOR
PHOTO  BY NOLAN T HOMAS / GUARDIAN F ILEPHOTO BY NOLAN THOMAS /GUARDIAN FILE
See SOCCER , page 11
WATER POLO
MEN’S/WOMEN’S SOCCER
WOMEN’S VOLLEYBALL9/11
10/11
10/13
10/11
10/12AT Cal Baptist
VS CSU San Bernardino
VS Chico State
VS CSU East Bay
VS CSU Monterey BayUPCOMING
UCSD
GAMES