VOLUME 47, ISSUE 18  MONDAY , NOVEMBER 25, 2013  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
FEATURED 
FRESHMAN ART
Muir College freshman Lily 
Wang’s award-winning 
work is on display in a 
special exhibit at The Loft 
in Price Center until the end 
of November.
Fea tures, P AGE 6
WE  CAN  DO  IT
POSTSEASON  PUSH integra tion  in  the  milit ar y
Volleyball  heads  to  NCAAsopinion,  P age   4
sports,  P age  12
MONDAY
H 68 L 46TUESDAY
H 72 L 51
WEDNESDAY
H 72 L 50THURSDAY
H 65 L 53
FORECAST
VERBATIM
Trust me. 
I’ve had 
the same 
lovably-
faded grey 
teddy bear
for 19 years. ”
- Kelvin Noronha
THINKING CAPS
OPINION ,  PAGE 4
INSIDE
Lights and Sirens  ............ 3
Quick Takes  .................... 4
Letter to the Editor  .......... 5
Crossword  .................... 11
Sports  ........................... 12“
IN THE THICK OF IT
(From left to right) UCSD students Hannah Flaig, Zhichen Zhang and Dronneil Chandra take part in an Army Reserve Officer Training Corps field 
training exercise completed at Camp Elliot on Friday , Nov. 22. UCSD cadets who participated learned key survival techniques and tactical combat skills.PHOTO BY ALWIN SZETO / GUARDIANThe UCSD Jacobs School of 
Engineering won Popular Science 
Magazine’s “Best of What’s New” 
awards for 2013 for its innovative 
outdoor shaker table and a robot 
called SkySweeper, designed to 
move along utility lines.
UCSD boasts the largest high-
performance outdoor shake table in 
the world, which allows structural 
engineers to test buildings, improve 
earthquake hazard mitigation and 
protect structures.
“It can subject a 400-ton payload 
to 1.2 Gs, the high-end of recorded 
seismic movement, ” the report in 
the Popular Science Magazine said.
The world’s largest shaker table is 
25 ft. by 40 ft. and was tested against 
a fully equipped five-story building.
Structural engineers at UCSD 
Englekirk Structural Engineering 
Center in Scripps Ranch created 
a five-story building — which 
included an ICU, surgery room, 
piping and air conditioning, fire 
barriers and a functional elevator 
— and tested it against a series 
of recorded magnitude of real 
earthquakes. 
The building was tested with 
some of the world’s greatest earth-
shaking quakes, including the 
8.8-magnitude Chilean earthquake 
of 2010. The $5 million project aims 
to determine how to keep high-
value buildings such as hospital 
and data centers operational even 
through massive earthquakes.
“What we are doing is the 
equivalent of giving a building an 
EKG to see how it performs after an 
earthquake and a post-earthquake 
fire,” principal investigator Tara Jacobs 
School Wins  
Innovation 
Award SCIENCE  AND  TECHNOLOGY
Popular Science 
Magazine awards the 
engineering school for 
SkyWeeper Robot.
BY   j u s t i n e  l i a n g   staff  writer
See AWARD , page 3Applications Open for
New Transfer GuaranteeADMISSIONS
Low-income San Diego-area community college 
students can now gain assured admission to UCSD.
BY   G a b r i e l l a  F l e i s c h m a n   staff  writer
University of California administrators 
launched a new program this week that will 
give low-income students in San Diego a 
guaranteed transfer to UCSD. The new project, 
UniversityLink, was launched Nov. 20 and will 
replace the Transfer Admission Guarantee 
(TAG) program that was discontinued in 2012. 
UniversityLink aims at assisting low-income 
community college students from the San Diego area who cannot attend any UC campus other 
than UCSD because they cannot afford to live 
away from home.
To be eligible for the program, a student’s 
family income cannot exceed $40,000 a year. 
Additionally, students must have at least a 3.5 
average grade point average, and they must fulfill 
UPDATED RESULTS
KEVIN FAULCONER DAVID ALVAREZ NATHAN FLETCHER MIKE AGUIRRE
4.4% 24.24% 26.5% 42.73%
See TRANSFERS , page 3
Mayoral candidates Faulcolner and Alverez seem set to take part in a run-off early next year. The San 
Diego Registrar of Voters still has approximately 10,100 mail/provisional ballots to be counted before 
YLZ\S[ZHYLÄUHSPaLK
-PN\YLZHYLHJJ\YH[LHZVM
2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 25, 2013 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
@UCSDGuardian#OMG! Follow us on Twitter #NOW! www.ucsdguardian.org/advertisingTu r n  You r  ACTIONS
into Words
Advertise your event, your product!
Advertise yourself with
BIRDLAND By Rebekah Dyer
KN-­COMICS By Khanh Nguyen
BRIEFSb y  alek sandra konst antinovic     staff  writer     
/uni25B6  Meningitis
A third case of meningitis has been 
confirmed at UC Santa Barbara, following 
two other diagnoses this month. The latest 
patient is female, while the other two are male.
The Los Angeles Times reports that over 
300 UCSB students may have come in contact 
with the infected students.
Meningitis is a highly contagious disease 
frequently identified by a stiff neck, headaches 
and a high fever. College students are 
particularly susceptible to the disease that 
spreads through close living quarters and 
shared utensils. 
Santa Barbara’s Public Health Department 
will be conducting tests to determine if 
anyone else is sick.
/uni25B6 Mayor Race
San Diego’s special election on Nov. 
19 resulted in a runoff, with none of the 
candidates receiving a majority of the vote.
Republican City Councilmember Kevin 
Faulconer received 42.73 percent of the 
vote, while his Democratic rival and fellow 
Councilmember, David Alvarez, received 26.5 
percent of the vote. Former assemblyman and UCSD political science professor Nathan 
Fletcher fell behind Alvarez with 24.24 
percent and announced his retirement from 
public life in a concession speech a day after 
the election.
A map of voter turnout from the San 
Diego Union-Tribune shows a primarily 
Republican turnout in northern parts of San 
Diego, including La Jolla, with a Democratic 
majority in southern areas.
The runoff is not yet scheduled but will 
likely be in February of next year.
/uni25B6 Trolley
The San Diego Association of Governments 
has approved a plan to build a trolley route 
from the Old Town station near Fashion 
Valley up to UTC and La Jolla. The project 
has been under consideration for six months.
The new light rail will stop by nine stations, 
including two on the UCSD campus. One 
planned location is by Pepper Canyon in Sixth 
College, while the other is on east campus, by 
Triton Ballpark and Scripps Hospital.
The project will be funded by federal 
money and tax revenue and is scheduled to 
open by 2018.
CORRECTION
In the Nov. 21 of The Guardian, an Opinion piece titled 
“Sun God Says... Let Guests Stay” incorrectly attributed the 
adjacent art to “Snidghda Paul. ” The artist’ s name is spelled  
“Snighdha Paul.”
The Guardian corrects all errors brought to the attention of the 
editors. Corrections can be sent to editor@ucsdguardian.org .
FOLLOW US
ON TWITTER
@UCSDGUARDIAN
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and 
Thursdays during the academic year by UCSD  students 
and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this 
newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, 
without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2013, all 
rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible 
for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The 
views expressed herein do not necessarily represent 
the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of 
California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian 
is funded by advertising. Salamander semen.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035
Twitter @UCSDGuardian
www.facebook.com/ucsdguardianBusiness Manager
Emily Ku 
Advertising Director  
Noelle Batema
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Page Layout
Amber Shroyer, Dorothy Van, Tao TaoLaira Martin
Zev Hurwitz
Allie Kiekhofer
Mekala Neelakantan
Aleksandra Konstantinovic
Lauren Koa
Kelvin Noronha
Rachel Uda
Stacey Chien
Vincent Pham
Jacqueline Kim
Brian Monroe
Taylor Sanderson
Sara Shroyer
Zoë McCracken
Jeffrey Lau
Jenny Park
Rachel Huang
Claire Yee
Philip Jia
Madeline MannEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
Deputy Managing Editor
News Editor
Associate News Editor
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
Lifestyle Editor
A&E Editor
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Associate Copy Editors
Web Editor
Training & Development
Copy Readers
Clara Chao, Rosina Garcia, Andrew Huang,
Susan Shamoon
Editorial Assistants
Rita Eritsland, Shelby Newallis
NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 25, 2013 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
Hutchinson said to UCSD News.
While the shaker table tests the 
land, the SkySweeper makes its sky-
high rounds across utility cables. /uni00A0
“Developed by engineers at 
the University of California at San 
Diego, it will be the most affordable 
and versatile power-line monitoring 
tool,” said Popular Science 
Magazine.
SkySweeper is a V-shaped robot 
with a motor-driven “elbow” at its 
center. It is equipped with clamps that open and close, allowing the 
robot to move in an inchworm-
like fashion. The clamps that act 
as its hands can also swing over 
and release one at a time, allowing 
the robot to bypass cable support 
points.
Developed by Thomas Bewley, 
professor of mechanical engineering 
at UCSD School of Engineering, and 
Ph.D. student Nick Morozovsky, the 
SkySweeper is both low-cost and 
efficient. Made with just off-the-
shelf electronics and plastic parts 
printed from a 3D printer, the prototype for the SkySweeper is less 
than $1,000 — far less expensive 
than the current models used to 
inspect utility lines.
“The revolutions in low-cost 
microcontrollers and 3D printers 
have enabled rapid prototyping of 
complex robotic systems, such as 
SkySweeper, that can take novel 
dynamics and control problems 
from simulation to reality,” 
Morozovsky said to UCSD News.
LIGHTS & SIRENSLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edu.
Friday, Nov. 15
/uni25B63:10 p.m.: Non-injury Accident
A UC shuttle bus collided with 
another vehicle near W ashington 
Avenue. Report taken.
/uni25B611:58 p.m.: Welfare Check
A male was lying on the ground near 
the Cognitive Sciences Building. Field 
interview administered. 
Saturday, Nov. 16
/uni25B612:18 a.m.: Reckless Driving
A vehicle was driving on the side 
of the road, heading west between 
Regents and Lebon. Gone on arrival.
/uni25B69:06 p.m.: Citizen Contact
After paying the fare, a passenger 
vomited in a cab and left the area. 
Information only.
Sunday, Nov. 17
/uni25B62:50 a.m.: Disturbance
A male and female were having a 
verbal argument. Field interview 
administered. 
/uni25B611:19 a.m.: Medical Aid
A female passed out and had trouble 
breathing. Transported to hospital.
3:09 p.m.: Welfare Check
An adult female walked onto the I-5 
North from Genesee Ave. Information 
only.
Monday, Nov. 18
/uni25B610:30 p.m. to 2:30 a.m.: Citizen 
Contact
The reporting party believes she may 
have been drugged at a party. Report 
taken.
9 a.m. to 12 p.m.: Vandalism
A vehicle’s back tire was cut, causing 
$125 in damages. Online report./uni25B611:22 a.m.: Medical Aid
A young adult female had a seizure in 
Peterson Hall. Transported to hospital.
Tuesday, Nov. 19
/uni25B62:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m.: Bicycle 
Theft
A $1000 bicycle was stolen near 
the Center for Molecular Medicine. 
Online report.
/uni25B64:13 p.m.: Found Property
A suitcase was found behind a tree 
near Mayer Hall. Information only.
Wednesday, Nov. 20
/uni25B63:54 a.m.: Gas Leak
There was a strong odor of natural gas 
from the outside of the Rita Atkinson 
residences. Referred to other agency: 
Housing Maintenance.
/uni25B611:09 a.m.: Illegal Camping
An unoccupied transient camp was 
found in Lot 011. Information only.
9:39 p.m.: Fire Alarm
An unknown suspect willingly pulled 
a false fire alarm in RIMAC. Report 
taken.
Thursday, Nov. 21
/uni25B612:21 a.m.: Welfare Check
The friend of a student was unable 
to reach him and became concerned. 
Checks ok.
/uni25B66:50 a.m.: Medical Aid
An adult male experienced chest 
pains. Transported to hospital.
/uni25B68:20 p.m.: Marijuana Contact
There was an odor of marijuana 
around Stewart Hall. Information only.
 — ANDREW HUANG
Staff Writerregular transfer requirements.
Students must also go to one 
of nine local partner community 
colleges: Cuyamaca, Grossmont, 
Imperial Valley, MiraCosta, Palomar, 
San Diego City, San Diego Mesa, San 
Diego Miramar or Southwestern.
The TAG program is still in effect 
for the fall of 2014 but will no longer 
be in effect for UCSD after that year. 
However, it is still operating for eight 
other UC campuses. 
Interim Vice Chancellor of 
Student Affairs Alan Houston said 
that an estimated 200 students will 
be eligible for the program each year 
and that there is no ceiling for the 
number of students that can take 
advantage of it.
Associate Vice President of 
Academic Affairs Robby Boparai 
noted at Wednesday night’s A.S. Meeting that these students are 
unique from other commuter 
students and may require additional 
support once they attend UCSD. 
“We don’t yet have a support 
system to deal with those issues, ” 
Houston said. “Once they get here, 
the trick would be to figure out what 
kind of community ties are missing. ” 
However, Houston guesses that 
many of the primary issues facing 
these students are likely to be similar 
to the issues facing other commuter 
students. 
“If I had to wager a guess, ” 
Houston said, “I’ d say the biggest 
challenge for the commuting student 
is parking. ”
A potential financial problem 
that this program may cause is 
that many of these incoming 
students will require large sums of 
financial aid. However, according 
to Houston, Chancellor Pradeep Khosla’s “primary objective in 
the capital campaign that will be 
launched next year is scholarships 
for undergraduate students. ”
Aditionally, UniversityLink 
established a four-week summer 
Medical Science Program. The 
program is free of charge and 
includes academic activities, room 
and board. The program is intended 
for students interested in medicine, 
dentistry, pharmacy, biomedical 
research or allied health careers. 
Student veterans, active-duty 
service members and former foster 
youth are also eligible, regardless 
of their year. International students 
are not eligible. High school seniors 
and community college students can 
apply for UniversityLink starting 
Nov. 20.Around 200 Students will be Eligible for UniversityLink Yearly
/uni25B6 TRANSFERS,  from page 1
readers  can  contact
gabriella  fleischman     gfleisch@ucsd.edu  
Some Plastic Parts for Award-Winning Robot were 3-D Printed
/uni25B6 AWARD,  from page 1
readers  can  contact
justine  liang     jjl096@ucsd.edu  
LIKE US ON FACEBOOKWWW.FACEBOOK.COM/UCSDGUARDIAN
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
LAUREN  KOA
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 25, 2013 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
Don’t Let 
Familiarity 
Breed  
Contempt
An unusually frigid 
November morning and 
my own dubiously grace -
ful antics recently conspired to 
sideline me for the better part of 
a week. After my lazy attempt to 
exit my bed ended up in a pain -
fully strained back, I laid around 
in a dolorous stupor and promised 
myself to be grateful for every day 
my body worked normally. Yet the 
moment my back returned to its 
untroubled state, I forgot all about 
it again.
I can take some comfort in the 
fact that such apathy is not entirely 
my fault. My indifference to the 
comforts I’m used to is an example 
of a behavioral mechanism called 
latent inhibition, first discovered 
in 1959 by R.E. Lubow and A.U. 
Moore. Our brains take the massive 
amount of sensory input we receive 
on a continual basis and automati -
cally filter out all the stuff that we 
have already processed and deemed 
irrelevant. We rapidly grow accus -
tomed to various persistent envi -
ronmental stimuli and tune them 
out, so that our brains don’t have 
to struggle with handling multiple 
sensations at once.
This ability conferred a survival 
advantage; when our homo erectus 
ancestors were skulking about in 
the bushes stalking prey, it was 
helpful not to have been distracted 
by the minute perceptions of hover -
ing insects or poky dirt underfoot. 
Further down the evolutionary 
timeline, we also find latent inhibi -
tion useful. If we have a particu -
larly smelly roommate, it’s helpful 
if we’re able to block out the odors 
after a while. And when we’re tak -
ing an exam, we don’t want to con -
stantly feel our sleeves tickling our 
arms; our body focuses accordingly 
on the task at hand and desensitizes 
us to all the other inconsequential 
ambient sensations.
Unfortunately, this typically 
helpful ability can be a bit problem -
atic when we start ignoring things 
wholesale. Latent inhibition is a 
notorious saboteur of human rela -
tionships — when we get used to 
the presence and kindness of those 
close to us, we take them for grant -
ed, despite their qualities. As most 
of us have experienced at one point 
or another, we’re apt to get bored 
and end up seeking new people.
Similarly, we’re bound to over -
look the things in life that we are 
fortunate to have. I was overjoyed 
and overcome with gratitude when 
I got my laptop for my birthday 
four years ago, but it rarely elicits 
the faintest thought anymore as to 
how privileged I am to have it. If it 
were to get lost, I would be heart -
broken. But until then, it usually 
falls out of my consciousness. The 
same goes for every comfort and 
privilege we enjoy that others don’t 
— it’s only when they’ve disap -
peared that it might strike us how 
lucky we are.
It’s rather impossible to be 
perpetually thankful when our 
possessions, physical and intan -
gible, number in the hundreds. 
We’re hardly going to profess our 
appreciation of shoelaces or phone 
chargers. But we can still keep our 
most valuable possessions close to 
our hearts. Trust me — I’ve had the 
same lovably faded grey teddy bear 
for 19 years.
QUICK  T AKESAS HIT SHOWS “HOW I MET YOUR MOTHER” AND “BREAKING BAD” COME TO AN END, TELEVISION NETWORKS 
CBS AND AMC HAVE ORDERED PILOT EPISODES FOR SPIN-OFFS FOR BOTH SERIES.Signed, 
SEALed, 
Delivered
The U.S. Armed Forces’ plan to 
integrate women into special 
operations units is a much-needed 
shift toward true gender equality in 
the miltary.B Y britt any christian  contributing  writer     
ILLUSTRA TION  b y  elizabeth  w ang
Television spinoffs are the epitome of hit-or-
miss. Network executives face the question of 
whether their new show will be a novel crowd 
pleaser or if it will be a lame attempt at recreating 
the past. But spinoffs do more than greedily reap 
profits out of show concepts; reworked episodes 
move on with the themes and atmosphere fans 
come to love, rejuvenating them with new charac -
ters that will develop in their own way. 
Preserving these shows is much more than 
instilling the character dynamic of Marshall 
Eriksen or Walter White into new bodies and 
faces. New characters can appeal to the same 
audience without being a complete reproduction 
of their parent personas. The show is able to live 
on by using the same world and struggles from 
before, evoking a sort of nostalgia in the fans.
One spinoff series that successfully moved on 
with themes and settings is Nickelodeon’s “The 
Legend of Korra. ” Stemming off of the world 
developed in “ Avatar: The Last Airbender, ” this 
series develops brand-new characters — com -
plete opposites from the original show. It’s the 
same world viewed from a different perspective, 
and that’s what made this series successful. “The 
Legend of Korra” averaged 3.7 million views for 
its first season, up from 3.2 million for “The Last 
Airbender, ” prompting the Nickelodeon network 
to order three more seasons on top of the first one.
Efforts in developing these derivative series 
aren’t just so companies can wring out the remain -
ing life out of an idea. It’s a combination of opti -
mism and fan support that spurs the need to con -
tinue with themes that audiences will surely love. 
  
— DEREK UNG
Contributing WriterTele vision Networks Utilize Spin-of fs 
as Easy, Low Risk InvestmentsIll-Fated and Unpopular TV Spin-offs 
Show Executives’ Lack of  CreativityFamiliar Themes and Characters 
Successfully Draw Audiences In
Continuing every hit show past its prime is 
ultimately an unsustainable practice that bars new 
shows from finding new audiences. Series spinoffs 
tend to cling to old successes and milk them for all 
they are worth, coasting on viewer nostalgia to pro -
long characters and storylines until they’re no longer 
interesting or believable. However, network execu -
tives should look for what worked in past hits and 
translate these aspects into new shows.
Networks have become too hesitant to introduce 
new premises, and instead rely on worn-out charac -
ters from old, stale shows far past their peak. When 
the CW Network introduced “The Carrie Diaries” 
as a prequel for the “Sex and the City” franchise 
that ran for six seasons and two movies, even Sarah 
Jessica Parker — the series’ lead actress — was 
unimpressed and believed the series was odd.
A continuation of a show or character only occa -
sionally finds its own voice and earns a loyal follow -
ing. “Cheers” sequel “Frasier” matched the original 
show’s longevity with an 11-season run, while 
1970s hit “Happy Days, ” a spinoff itself from “Love, 
American Style, ” spawned semi-popular spinoffs, 
“Mork & Mindy” and “Laverne & Shirley. ” However, 
spinoffs that attempt to bask in former glory without 
offering anything new, end up wrung dry of profits, 
while audiences become jaded and grow to loathe 
the characters they once tuned in for.
Networks need to realize that a show does 
not warrant a spinoff solely on the basis of a suc -
cessful run. After nine seasons of “How I Met 
Your Mother, ” no one really wants to see “How I 
Met Your Father. ” We’ d like to see a story about 
somebody new.
—  ALLIE KIEKHOFER
Senior Staff WriterNetworks will always milk a cash cow. Once 
media moguls spot a show with unrealized money -
making potential, a spinoff can mean the difference 
between cult obscurity and blockbuster franchise. 
Spinoffs to declining or ended shows serve as easy, 
low-risk ways to squeeze a bit more money from a 
once-popular series, or even catapult the series into 
the great wealth and fame of franchisedom.
Because spin-offs come with a built-in audi -
ence, the pre-existing fanbase saves on marketing 
and takes pressure off writers to develop new 
characters. Even if a spinoff fails, its large initial 
viewership makes commercial space an easy sell. 
Although “Joey, ” the infamous spinoff of “Friends, ” 
suffered cancellation after its second season with a 
low of 4.1 million viewers, it attracted 18.6 million 
viewers for its premiere season.
On the other hand, a successful franchise can 
churn out profits for generations, on and off TV . 
“Looney Tunes” still makes $1 billion annually off 
its merchandising empire built from its decades of 
retooled spinoffs. The original “Star Trek” ended 
after just three seasons. However, a total of five spi -
noffs spanning four decades made Star Trek the $4 
billion franchise recognizable today, with its most 
recent films grossing $250 million each. “Law & 
Order” has spawned ten spinoffs and foreign adap -
tations; producers found a formula for profitable 
television and stuck with it.
Love them or hate them, spinoffs make busi -
ness sense. They not only build off untapped hype 
from the parent show to keep the cash flowing, but 
also occasionally create franchise titans that rule 
the entertainment industry for decades to come.
— THOMAS FINN
Contributing WriterSixty-five years have passed since the approval of the 
Women’s Armed Services Integration Act, permit -
ting women to seek permanent status in the mili -
tary. Now, as of Jan. 21, the United States Armed Forces 
will make moves toward integrating women into elite 
positions in special forces divisions of the military such as 
the Navy SEALS, the Army Rangers, or the Green Berets 
to begin as early as 2015.
Given the rapid advances in women’s rights within the 
last 50 years, full integration of women into the military 
will serve as one of the final steps on the path towards 
much needed occupational equality for women, but also 
as a first move towards achieving genuine gender equality 
in the military.
Although there are questions regarding the number of 
women who will be able to meet the physical demands, 
such capacity seems to be a minute concern for some 
military officials. Former SEAL officer Cade Courtley 
agrees that there are women with the physical and psy -
chological prowess for the job, but questions the wisdom 
of adding “an element into the most elite special forces 
that could cause it to be less effective. ” Female physical 
competence, then, seems to fall somewhere at the bot -
tom of a list of concerns, trumped by reluctance toward 
change. However, skepticism is no cause for refusal of equal opportunity.
In a nation where gender roles are an implicit and 
explicit part of the culture, breaking down the meta -
physical barrier between male and female seems absurd, 
but only because we have been branded with gender 
stereotypes straight from the get-go. American culture 
has focused more on gender differences than on similari -
ties, nurturing gender stereotypes from the moment a 
newborn leaves the hospital with either a blue or a pink 
blanket. Karen Davis, professor of neuroscience at the 
University of Toronto, asserts that typical views of women 
in combat have “been strongly influenced by socio-cultur -
al perspectives flowing from an exclusively male-oriented 
warrior framework or at least the assumptions underlying 
it. ” A link rather than a barrier between genders would 
allow for less unnecessary divergence. Although such 
unspoken laws are now being challenged, the idea of 
gender equality in the military is still fresh with the deep-
set existence of gender roles in our country, which ulti -
mately serve as a crucial factor to women being viewed as 
incompetent or unfit for comb standards. 
Unfortunately, it took something as serious as sexual 
assault to ignite the process of change. Chairman of the 
See NAVY SEALS , page 5
Kel vin  Noronha   
knoronha@ucsd.eduThinking CapsJoint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Martin E. 
Dempsey shed light in January on 
the reasoning behind the decision, 
stating that the continuous problem 
of sexual harassment in the military 
may be due to an imbalanced posi -
tion dynamic, declaring: “When you 
have one part of the population that 
is designated as warriors and another 
part that’s designated as something 
else, [the] disparity begins to estab -
lish a psychology that in some cases 
led to that environment. ”
This rationality is valid, but 
nothing new. The infamous prison 
experiment conducted at Stanford 
University in 1971 by psychol -
ogy professor Philip Zimbardo, in which 24 men were placed in 
a simulated prison environment, 
shows the adverse effects of bestow -
ing power to a select group of 
individuals that would otherwise 
be considered equals. The planned 
two-week experiment was brought 
to a screeching premature halt due 
to horrific behavior inflicted by the 
group of men labeled guards on to 
those labeled prisoners. Zimbardo 
concluded that it was the situation 
— not the individuals themselves — 
that caused the behavior. Although 
Gen. Dempsey’s logic of power 
dynamics is sound, the integration 
of females into these elite positions 
should not be as a result of maltreat -
ment. Rather, permitting women to 
contend for these spots should be a means to restructuring the gender 
paradigm toward equality.
The transition to full integra -
tion may be slow at first and the step 
seemingly small, but it is the last 
step toward women becoming fully 
included in the military, which is a 
significant accomplishment for our 
country. Future daughters will no lon -
ger be notified that they do not have 
the option of becoming a Navy SEAL 
or an Army Ranger, and as females 
grow into the field of Special Forces, 
both men and women will learn to 
adapt accordingly, taking a step for -
ward toward equality rather than a fall 
backward to segregation. OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 25, 2013 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
ad name:  CW JD Ad1  size: ½ page H  —12.5" x 10.5"
publication:  CSU Fullerton - “Daily Titan”  pub date:  09/17/13
MD contact:  Andrea Bianchi  phone:  760-231-8286
We know that an incoming student
is more than just a set of test scores.
We admit those who demonstrate
an unyielding passion for becoming
outstanding lawyers .
Agustín Peña ’12
Ofﬁce of the San Diego County
District Attorney
Scan this code to learn more about Agustín
or visit  www.cwsl.edu/IamReady  SOLVE FOR X By Philip Jia
/uni25B6 NAVY SEALS , from page 4Women in Elite Military Positions Can Change Gender Roles
readers  can  contact
britt any christian     blchrist@ucsd.edu  LETTER  TO  THE  EDITOR
Dear Editor,
I have been an employee of 
UCSD for 12 years. But as a dis -
abled employee, I no longer feel safe 
at work. I disclosed my disability 
to my department with the hope of 
getting the support I need to over -
come the difficulties I have at work. 
I provided two letters from my 
doctor identifying the functional 
limitations that would enable me to 
continue working.
The University Interactive 
Process has failed. The doctors’ 
letters I provided and three meet -
ings held on this issue have failed 
to ensure that the accommodations 
I need to function at work are met 
in a way that is consistent and fair. 
Instead the accommodation has 
been provided only sporadically and 
begrudgingly — thereby ensuring 
continued stress, difficulty and ulti -
mately failure to meet the require -
ments of my job. 
During a Disability Interactive 
Process meeting convened by the 
department, I was subjected to 
derogatory comments about my 
illness. These comments under -
mined trust going forward, as they 
indicate a troubling pattern in the department and perhaps through -
out the system. 
It is important to note the sig -
nificance of a functional limitation 
and its attendant accommodation: 
A disabled employee cannot func -
tion without the accommodation in 
place. The employer has the power 
to enable the disabled employee 
to succeed by providing a minor 
adjustment — or to ensure their 
failure by withholding the specified 
accommodation. In this case it is 
not only my ability to work, which 
is at stake, but the success of the 
course and its students. 
I believe an open discussion 
about disability in the workplace is 
in order. A culture of discrimina -
tion should not be allowed to per -
petuate within a public institution. I 
believe in the UC system and hope 
to send my son to school here. But 
by ignoring these troubling signs 
the very values of the University 
of California are compromised. 
The majority of Americans WILL, 
at some point in their lives, live 
with disability. As our society ages, 
accommodating disability in a way 
that is consistent and reasonable 
will help ensure the success of the 
institution and our society.
 — Naomi Spellman  
Department Lecturer, 
Interdisciplinary Computing Arts UC System Needs Open 
Discussion on Disability
THE GUARDIAN WELCOMES LETTERS FROM ITS READERS. ALL LETTERS MUST 
BE ADDRESSED, AND WRITTEN, TO THE EDITOR OF THE GUARDIAN. LETTERS 
ARE LIMITED TO 500 WORDS, AND ALL LETTERS MUST INCLUDE THE WRITER’S 
NAME, COLLEGE AND YEAR, DEPARTMENT OR CITY OF RESIDENCE. THE GUARDIAN 
EDITORIAL BOARD RESERVES THE RIGHT TO EDIT FOR LENGTH, ACCURACY, 
CLARITY AND CIVILITY. THE EDITORIAL BOARD RESERVES THE RIGHT TO REJECT 
LETTERS FOR PUBLICATION. DUE TO THE VOLUME OF MAIL WE RECEIVE, WE DO 
NOT CONFIRM RECEIPT OR PUBLICATION OF A LETTER.
EMAIL: OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 25, 2013 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
ST ACEY  CHIEN
features@ucsdguardian.org
A WORLD
OF COLOR
UCSD student Lily Wang, featured 
artist of the month at The Loft, talks 
about her paintings and the signiﬁcance 
behind them. 
BY SOUMYA KURNOOL CONTRIBUTING WRITER
ART COURTESY OF LILY WANG
Muir College freshman Lily Wang has been an artist 
since she could pick up a pencil. Literally. As a child, 
when learning how to write the alphabet, even her 
letters would look like pictures.
Eighteen years later, the pen is still at work. The fruits 
of her labor hang in The Loft until December: 10 vibrant 
paintings that appear to be so professional that students have 
even emailed Wang asking if she sells books of her work. 
This makes sense considering her work is also featured in 
Cannon Tunnel in the Capitol Building in Washington D.C., 
the prize for winning the 26th Congressional District Art 
Contest.
The 10 pieces on display include a mix of digital and 
traditional pieces that she made during high school. There 
is visible diversity in her works, ranging from somber and 
intense drawings to blindingly fluorescent ones. 
Wang’s goal for her art is simple.
“When people see my work, I want them to feel some -
thing or get some sort of idea from seeing my work, ” Wang 
said. “I want to communicate feelings between me and the 
viewer. ”
Each painting also holds personal meaning for Wang.
“Each piece, when I look back at [a painting], I remember 
what I was feeling at the time, ” Wang said. “It’s kind of like 
looking at photos from the past. [I’ d think], ‘That’s how I 
looked then. That’s how I drew then. Oh, I looked so gross 
back then, or oh, I was having fun. ’”
 Wang’s personal favorite on display is “Pour Love, ” a 
See ART, page 8
PHOTO BY AUSTIN SONG/ GUARDIANIt’s no secret that one of the most 
stressful aspects about the holiday 
season is figuring out the perfect 
gift to give to your loved ones, but 
Giftovus — an online, collabora -
tive gift-giving service — allows 
gift givers to work together to find 
the perfect gift. According to www.
Giftovus.com, a person will struggle 
finding gifts for six out of 10 people 
that they shop for, and in the end, 
gifts are still dissatisfactory 20 per -
cent of the time. A simple collabora -
tion between the gift giver and the 
family and friends of the receiver 
will make special occasions less hec -
tic and less costly.
Giftovus was launched last 
month by UCSD alumna Jessica 
Jessup, who got help from fellow 
UCSD alumni husband Brian Jessup, 
Tim Schilling and Andy Sammons.
“[My mom is] really hard to shop 
for, [so my sister and I] were just 
online, emailing each other back 
and forth trying to figure out the 
right gift, ” Jessica Jessup said. “That 
was just taking a really long time, 
so that’s where we came up with the 
idea of creating Giftovus — to try to 
help myself, as well as a lot of other 
people, [with the process]. ”
Giftovus is formatted similarly to 
Facebook, and users connect through 
Facebook so that family members 
and friends can “recruit” one another 
to contribute to the effort. First, a 
user posts a wish list on his or her 
Giftovus profile. Then, friends and 
family collaborate on the user’s pro -file by posting different ideas on the 
receiver’s profile and work toward 
making the gifts more personal. For 
example, if someone lists “sweater” 
on his wish list, his loved ones can 
discuss different styles, colors and 
brands that he might want, allowing 
for a more personalized, thought-
out gift. Throughout this whole pro -
cess, the receiver will not be able to 
see the activity on his or her profile 
other than the wish list that he or she 
has posted. 
Giftovus also serves as a money 
saver since Jessica Jessup says peo -
ple end up spending more money 
to overcompensate when they’re 
unsure about a gift.
“People often think, ‘If I don’t 
know exactly what to get, then I’ d 
rather overshoot in money than 
undershoot, ’” she said. “People think 
that spending more equates to car -
ing more, but that is not true. ”
According to Giftovus, the aver -
age American spends about 18 
hours struggling to think of a per -
fect gift and wastes $102 each holi -
day season. 
“The expression, ‘It’s the thought 
that counts, ’ falls perfectly with what 
we’re trying to do, ” Jessica Jessup 
said. “[With Giftovus], you’re think -
ing about someone, putting in the 
effort to learn more about them 
and trying to figure out a way to 
express your relationship in the gift 
that you’re giving to them. What we 
don’t agree with is someone saying, 
‘It’s the money that counts. ’”
Jessica Jessup believes that 
Giftovus makes gift giving a learn -
ing experience.
“In that process of bringing peo -ple together [and] throwing around 
a few ideas, you also learn about 
[the receiver], ” Jessica Jessup said.
When a Giftovus user makes a 
list of gifts he wants, his or her loved 
ones can narrow down their search 
for the perfect present while not 
completely ruining the surprise.
“He wants a bike, and his loved 
ones can help him figure out what 
size he is, what style he likes, what 
color he’ d want, ” Jessica Jessup said. Jessica Jessup explained how col -
lege students in particular could 
benefit from the platform.
“In college, you live on cam -
pus, and you have a lot of friends, ” 
she said. “[You can] get everyone 
involved in [it], and get everyone 
posting about each other. You know 
a lot of little things, and college stu -
dents can help the parents and other 
friends know what to get. ”
Giftovus allows its users to select gifts that receivers are more likely to 
appreciate. 
“To put it succinctly, the right 
gift costs less, ” Brian Jessup said. “If 
it’s something they’re really going to 
love, it could be five dollars, [and] it 
doesn’t matter — it’s what they love. 
The emotional component [of gift-
giving] is restored. ”FEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 25, 2013 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
wpcarey.asu.edu/graduate        boost 
 your career
Earn a master’s degree in as little as 9 months 
from a top ranked business school.really!
sAccountancy
sBusiness Analytics
sFinance
sGlobal LogisticssInformation Management
sManagement
sReal Estate Development
sTaxation
Gift-giving Made Simple
UCSD alumnus speaks about Giftovus, an online 
platform her and her husband created for gift 
givers to promote effective collaboration.
BY   c h a n e l l e   w a n g   &   sy d n e y   r e c k
contributing  writers
readers  can  contact
Chanelle  W ang   chw153@ucsd.eduPHOTO COURTESY OF GIFTOVUS8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 25, 2013 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
digital self-portrait. Rosy, milky love 
showers from a dark indigo sky onto 
a purplish Wang, who covers her 
face in her hands as delicate little 
wispy hearts fall on her head and 
shoulders. 
“I drew it at a time when I was 
feeling down — boy troubles, ” Wang 
said. “It turned out nice. Usually, 
when I feel strong emotions, the 
pieces turn out better. ”
On the other hand, Wang pres -
ents a happier and carefree side to 
life in her paintings as well. Though 
Wang describes her own work as 
realist in relation to anime art, 
aspects of the surreal and a great 
deal of distortion often come up in 
her drawings. 
One such example is “Fishy 
Happenings,” a digital piece in 
which a slim girl walks down a path. 
On one side is a bustling metropo -
lis, and on the other is a sky full of 
clouds with exotic fish flying. Two 
Pokemon characters are also hidden 
in the drawing for fun. 
Though she is a freshman who 
has only been on campus for nine 
weeks, Wang got her paintings to be 
the only student works featured in 
The Loft by Googling and reaching 
out to find opportunities to show -
case art at UCSD. 
After coming in contact with 
UCSD Art Exhibit Coordinator 
Shanise Mok, Wang was able to put 
her art out in public for her first 
time at UCSD.
Though Wang has received high-
profile recognition for her work, her 
inspirations come from a humble 
source: the Internet. As of now, 
Wang draws from the styles of devi -
antart user ProdigyBombay and 
Tumblr user 70% EtOH. 
70% EtOH, a freelancer who also 
holds a Ph.D in pathology, has espe -cially inspired Wang to look into 
the intersection of science and art. 
Wang is taking baby steps toward 
a life of science and art, drawing 
pictures of muscular and skeletal 
anatomy off of reference photos for 
her own practice.
However, with the overwhelm -
ing experience of being in college 
for the first time, art has taken a 
backseat for Wang as she adjusts to 
school and mostly consists of doo -
dling to make sure that her drawing 
skills remain up to par. 
“ Art is something where I can 
destress and let my emotions flow 
through, ” Wang said. “Some people 
use meditation. For me, it’s drawing 
— just sort of releasing stress and 
releasing the drawing. ”
In terms of finding a commu -
nity of artists at UCSD, Wang has 
reached out to another artist at 
UCSD: Warren College freshman Su 
Cheong. Together, they do art trades 
and support each other when they 
are going through “art bloc, ” the 
bane of an artist’s existence. 
Wang hopes to use her art to 
serve the community at UCSD, 
along the lines of art therapy and 
volunteering at a hospital. 
Wang also wants to continue 
to teachdrawing at local homeless 
women’s shelters.
These are big goals for the busy 
general biology major who’s always 
intent on improving her technique. 
But Wang considers her exhibition 
at The Loft as a solid start. 
“I feel like, ‘Wow, my work is 
actually hanging on a wall, ’” Wang 
said. “It’s a bit of a surprise when I 
walk in, and it’s like, ‘That work is 
by me. ’  I’m pretty happy I’ve gotten 
an opportunity to display my work, 
and I think I’m off to a good start. ” 
readers  can  contact
SOUMY A  KURNOOL   SKURNOOL@ucsd.edu/uni25B6 ART, from page 6Wang Hopes to Contribute to the UCSD Community T hrough Art T herapy and Volunteer WorkFor some, Daft Punk’s “Get 
Lucky, ” featuring Pharrell Williams, 
is beyond overplayed — but “Get 
Data, ” a song parody produced by 
UCSD’s graduate neuroscience pro -
gram to promote the annual Society 
for Neuroscience Meeting in San 
Diego, offers a fresh take.
In order to revamp “Get Lucky, ” 
UCSD’s neurosciences program 
crowdsourced the lyrics, spent two 
days filming the music video — which 
features members of the program — 
and published “Get Data” online on 
Nov. 5. Since then, “Get Data” has 
gone viral on Y ouTube, garnering 
over 76,000 views to date. Some of 
the new parody lyrics include “She’s 
up all night to pipette/ I’m up all 
night to collect/ She’s up all night, no 
regrets/ I’m up all night to get data. ” 
“Graduate students [in 2011] 
decided to make a music video paro -
dying Lady Gaga’s ‘Poker Face, ’ but it 
was ‘Poster Face, ’” graduate student 
Ethan McBride, who worked on this 
year’s music video and lyrics, said. “A n d  I  g u e s s  i t ’s  b e c o m i n g  a  t r a d i t i o n .”
By the third day “Get Data” was 
uploaded, it had already passed the 
17,000-view count of “Poster Face. ” 
The neurosciences program pre -
sented its poster, a common way of 
presenting data at a large science 
conference, at SfN on Monday, Nov. 
11. The effort put into the creation of 
“Get Data” paid off, as the neurosci -
ences program’s social event at SfN 
was well attended. 
“ A couple people even came up to 
Ethan and asked, ‘ Are you that guy in 
the video?’” graduate student Ashley 
Juavinett said. “I think our social was 
well attended in part because of the 
video. In general, it was good public -
ity for our program. ”
The video impressed by show -
casing the fun side of a serious 
graduate program.
“One of the Y ouTube comments 
[said], ‘Now I want to go to UCSD for 
grad school, ’” McBride said.
The neurosciences program 
proved its point with “Get Data” , 
which put the graduate students’ 
antics, editing skills and musical tal -
ent on display.
“Our program has a good reputa -tion for being a very social program 
where people have interests outside 
of science, such as making videos or 
music, ” Juavinett said.
Micah Caldwell, husband of neu -
roscience graduate student Alie 
Caldwell, who provided the vocals 
for the video, spent just one day 
recording the audio and approxi -mately nine hours editing.
UCSD’s neurosciences program 
is a family that you can’t find any -
where else. Besides working hard to 
collect data, they are also experts at 
having fun.
“I think we really do have a good 
community at UCSD for neurosci -
ence, and I think this video is a really good demonstration of that, ” 
Juvanitt said. “There [are] some 
other [graduate] programs that I 
can’t see getting together on this 
video — it was definitely a team 
effort with many people. ”Up All Night to “Get Data”
Neuroscience graduate students from UCSD produced 
a music video parody that has gone viral on Y ouTube.
BY   c h a n e l l e   w a n g   &   sy d n e y   r e c k
contributing  writers
readers  can  contact
Chanelle  W ang   chw153@ucsd.edu
PHOTOS BY AUSTIN SONG/ GUARDIANPHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD NEUROSCIENCES PROGRAMSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 25, 2013 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
“In the /f_irst half, we shot poorly 
and we were totally out of sync, ” 
UCSD head coach Heidi VanDerveer 
said to the UCSD Athletics Depart -
ment. “We regrouped at hal/f_time and 
showed tremendous character the rest 
of the way. ”
Within the /f_irst /f_ive minutes of 
the second half, the Tritons overtook 
the lead on a /f_lurry of three-pointers. 
UCSD struggled back and forth with 
Western Washington leading to a 
55–55 tie. 
From there UCSD took over, never 
giving up the lead from the outset of 
the overtime period.
“In the /f_irst half, we weren’t mak -
ing shots, weren’t playing together 
and weren’t talking, ” Seto said. “In our 
talk during hal/f_time, we told ourselves 
that we need to pick it up and come 
together. ”On Friday, the Tritons faced Se -
attle Paci/f_ic, losing 66–63. Despite 
getting 18 points out of Perry and 17 
points from Seto, UCSD couldn’t stop 
6-foot-2-inch Seattle forward Katie 
Benson, who scored 26 points and 
nabbed nine rebounds.
“We were down from most of 
the game and fought our way back, ” 
VanDerveer said to the UCSD Athlet -
ics Department. “We out-rebounded 
them but had too many turnovers. We 
did have an opportunity to win a/f_ter 
coming back and I’m proud of our ef -
fort. ”
/T_his week, the Tritons will host 
the UCSD /T_hanksgiving Classic. On 
Friday, Nov. 29, UCSD will face Metro 
State at RIMAC Arena at 7:00 p.m. 
/T_he following Saturday, the Tritons 
take on Azusa Paci/f_ic at 6:00 p.m.high school program prepared me re -
ally well for going to the next level, ” 
Anderson said. “/T_here are a lot of phi -
losophies of this team that I already 
shared coming in. As part of this fresh -
man class, I know we not only want to 
be able to acclimate to the new college 
game but do all we can to contribute to 
a championship caliber team. ”
She also agreed with teammate 
White that the team’s support has 
helped her adapt to the college game. 
“I think that the support from 
teammates to help with the new things 
has helped me adjust to more obvious 
diﬀerences like speed of the game, both 
mentally and physically, ” Anderson 
said.
/T_his rookie class will look to follow 
the winning tradition set forth for them 
by a program which won the CCAA 
Tournament last season and which set 
the school record for the longest win -
ning streak (26 games). Having lost the talents of guards Daisy Feder and 
Emily Osga, both /f_irst team all-CCAA 
members in 2012-2013, the team will 
need to /f_ind replacements for the pair’s 
scoring output. Both Feder and Osga 
were members of the 1000-point club 
by the time they graduated last year. 
“For the team as a whole, I think 
we have a mindset to be a postsea -
son team, ” Anderson said, “Especially 
coming oﬀ the conference champion -
ship last year. ”
/T_he road to another championship 
will be a unique one with this bunch of 
new personalities.
“I feel like my class will bring a 
good amount of energy oﬀ the bench 
and all go hard every second we are on 
the court, ” White said. “We will also 
bring a little bit of fun during practice 
and games and also a little bit of swag. ” 
We have already seen some of this 
with the excitement displayed by the 
women’s basketball team at Triton 
Power Hour, including in the perfor -
mance by White aka Rapper Jacks, in the event’s rap competition — for 
which she won an iPad mini.
Fans can expect a long stretch 
of home games for the Tritons this 
January. /T_he Tritons will be playing at 
Rimac three out of four weekends at 
the start of Winter Quarter 2014.
“I’m really excited to get the chance 
to witness a new community of fans 
and see other athletes and students that 
I have met so far at games, ” Anderson 
said. “Playing in such a large gym, it 
should be awesome. ”
/T_he Tritons started the road to a 
championship season with a confer -
ence win against Cal State San Ber -
nardino in their season opener, and are 
now 2–1 with the loss to Seattle Paci/f_ic 
last Friday and an overtime win against 
Western Washington the following day.
/T_he Tritons’ next game is this Fri -
day Nov. 29 at Rimac Arena against 
Metro State, at the UCSD /T_hanksgiv -
ing Classic tournament.  
CAPS
Counseling and Psychological Services
UC SAN DIEGO
When you are ready to talk, we are here to listen.
For appointments, call (858) 534-3755
Same-day services are available to 
students who need URGENT assistance 
LQRXUPDLQRƯFHDW 190 Galbraith Hall.
Same-day services are from 8am - 4pm.
For help AFTER BUSINESS HOURS,  a 
counselor can be reached by calling 
(838) 534-3755  and selecting I option 2 JGet connected!
Open the CAPS App and 
add to your smartphone 
homescreen for easy access 
to mental health tips and 
assistance. 
Visit 
caps.ucsd.edu for self 
help resources.Today QR CODE
Link: codu.co/858784
Worried about a friend? Speak up and reach out.
&$36VHUYLFHVDUHIUHHDQGFRQƬGHQWLDOWR
registered students.
New Class of  Tritons Looks Forward to Filling the Lineup
/uni25B6 FEATURE,  from page 12
readers  can  contact
Kirsten willmon     kwillmon@ucsd.edu  readers  can  contact
rachel uda     ruda@ucsd.edu  recorded an error and got blocked 
at the net to end the match 16–18 in 
Cal State Bernardino’s favor to hand 
the Coyotes their eight consecutive 
CCAA title.
Friday, No. 12 ranked UCSD took 
on Cal State Los Angeles to defend 
the second spot in the conference. 
/T_he Golden Eagles’ good hitting per -
centage and service pressure caused 
Triton losses in the /f_irst two sets in 
/T_he Eagles’ nest. 
UCSD answered by out-blocking 
Cal State Los Angeles in the next set. 
/T_he /f_inal set featured 13 tie scores and 
seven lead changes. /T_he Tritons had 
a match point attempt at 27–26, but 
UCSD ultimately fell in its second straight loss a/f_ter the Golden Eagles 
closed out the match with three con -
secutive points. 
Saturday the Tritons were back at 
RIMAC Arena for their /f_inal match 
of the regular season against Cal 
State Dominguez Hills. /T_he Tritons, 
who won last time the two met, had 
control for most of the match. A/f_ter 
dropping the third set 25–19, UCSD 
took the early lead in the /f_inal set 
with good serving pressure and solid 
blocking, to hold on to the 25–16 
lead.
Saturday marked the /f_inal career 
regular season match for seniors 
Lizzy Andrews, Rachelle Kinney, Sara 
McCutchan and Brittany Lombardi. 
All four contributed against Domin -
guez Hills, but Ricci Luyties took note of Lombardi’s standout senior season.
On Wednesday, she broke the pro -
gram’s single season dig record with 
560 digs in 2013.
 “It has been a really   year and I’m 
going to miss the girls” , Lombardi said 
a/f_ter the match Saturday. “But /f_irst we 
are going to continue our winning 
streak into the playoﬀs. ”
UCSD will now wait until Mon -
day, Nov. 25, when the NCAA 
Tournament bracket is set to be an -
nounced, to learn of its postseason 
fate. Regionals run from Dec. 5 to 
Dec. 8 while the NCAA Champion -
ships take place Dec. 12 to Dec. 14 in 
Cedar Rapids, Iowa.
 UCSD Women’s Volleyball Awaits NCAA Regional Draw
/uni25B6 VOLLEYBALL,  from page 12
readers  can  contact
rit a eritsland     reritsland@ucsd.edu  Forward Bertsch Posts Double-Double 
to Power UCSD Overtime Comeback 
/uni25B6 WOMEN’S BBALL,  from page 12
PHOTO BY BEATRIZ BAJUELOS / GUARDIAN FILE10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 25, 2013 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CALENDAR
THANKSGIVING FEAST
CAFÉ VENTANAS - $5 TICKETSTHU11.28m-1pmTahrir
get
more  exposure  =  higher  attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guardian
Calenda r
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdg uardian.orgcampus
CAL ENDAR
11.25 - 12.012013
MON11.25
THANKSGIVING BAGS – COLLEGE RESLIFE 
OFFICES
Are you a resident who will be staying on campus 
over the Thanksgiving Holiday? Stay well-fed by 
picking up a voucher for a Thanksgiving Grocery Bag 
with over $20 worth of food for only 10 dinning 
dollars! Vouchers are available now in your ResLife 
Office and can be redeemed at John's, Earl's, and 
the Village Market from November 25-27.
4pm
TEA WITH TRITONS: AN INTERFAITH 
DIALOGUE SERIES – PRICE CENTER WEST, 
RED SHOE RM
Join us for an afternoon of interfaith dialogue and 
tea, as we discuss our journey of spirituality, faith, 
and religion; learn from our differences, and discover 
our commonalities. Students from all faith and 
non-faith backgrounds are invited to participate. 
Come prepared to learn from others, ask questions, 
and honor our shared humanity. In this edition of Tea 
with Tritons, we will discuss holidays and special 
observances, as well as rituals and daily practices. 
Bring a friend! This is a free event; no RSVP 
required. Questions? Contact Brett Robertson, Center 
for Student Involvement
5:30pm
THE ADMISSIONS OFFICE OF UCSD SOM – 
PRICE CENTER EAST BALLROOM
SAVE THE DATE: UCSD SCHOOL OF MEDICINE 
PRESENTS: The Admissions Office of UCSD SOM is 
ONLY going to offer admissions presentations TWICE 
a year, beginning this school year! Due to 
tremendous time constraints they are no longer able 
to make presentations to individual student 
organizations. The next presentation will be in the 
spring, so THIS IS YOUR CHANCE to come and get 
your questions answered about admission to UCSD 
School of Medicine before then. Come to get more 
information on the medical school admissions 
process and get your questions answered! Don't 
miss out and be sure to tell all your friends!
FRI11.29
12pm
BAJA ON HORSEBACK – OUTBACK 
ADVENTURES RENTAL SHOP
From Friday to Sunday, put yourself in the Old West 
where the cattle roamed free! After instruction, we 
will ride Western-style through shady oak groves, 
hidden water pools, quiet valleys and mountain 
ranges on the 2800-acre ranch. We will be staying 
in rustic cabins on the beautiful gated and secured 
property of La Bellota Ranch. We will feast on 
authentic Mexican dishes, and the stars in Baja are 
the best you might ever see! And if that hasn't 
convinced you, imagine your friends in chaps. Sign 
up online at http://tinyurl.com/kefmaqd, Outback 
Adventures Rental Shop located behind Pepper 
Canyon, Surf Shop in Price Center, or call 
858-534-0684. Students $325/Others $400. On 
the day of the event, meet at Outback Adventures 
Rental Shop.WED11.27
11am
FITSTOP: COME TEST YOUR PHYSICAL FITNESS – 
THE ZONE, PRICE CENTER PLAZA
Come test your physical fitness and see your body fat 
composition! Hosted by the SHA's.
7pm
MEN’S BASKETBALL VS. ST. KATHERINE COLLEGE – 
RIMAC ARENA
UCSD men's basketball takes on St. Katherine College TUE11.26
10am
FITNESS ZONE: CORE STRETCH – THE ZONE, 
PRICE CENTER PLAZA
Come stretch your core and work out with one of the 
Recreation Instructors! Space is limited, so come early!
2pm
TASTY TUESDAY: ORGANIC & SEASONAL RECIPE 
– THE ZONE
Come taste a healthy organic and seasonal recipe 
hosted by The Zone Staff! Space is limited so come 
early!
SAT11.30
12:30pm
BIRCH AQUARIUM TIDEPOOLING 
ADVENTURES – BIRCH AQUARIUM AT THE 
SCRIPPS INSTITUTION OF OCEANOGRAPHY 
AT UCSD
Tidepooling Adventures November 3: 2:00-4:00 p.m., 
False Point November 16: 1:30-3:30 p.m., Dike Rock 
November 30: 12:30-2:30 p.m., False Point 
December 1: 1:00-3:00 p.m., Dike Rock Visit a local 
tide pool to learn how these amazing habitats and 
their inhabitants truly survive. General Fee: $15.00THU11.28
7am
SURF SAFARI: BAJA CALIFORNIA, MEXICO – OUTBACK ADVENTURES RENTAL SHOP
Tired of the crowds, want your own wave? It's yours on this long-weekend trip to the renowned breaks of Baja 
California! We will travel south of Ensenada to our choice of private breaks off the Baja peninsula. We will feast on tasty 
meals, gather around a bonfire, and gaze at the stars while camped on cliffs overlooking the Pacific Ocean. No 
experience necessary, we provide instructions, boards and wetsuits. Sign up online at http://tinyurl.com/kefmaqd, 
Outback Adventures Rental Shop located behind Pepper Canyon, Surf Shop in Price Center, or call 858-534-0684. 
Current UCSD students $325/Others $360.
10am
EXPLORE BLACK CANYON KAYAK AND HOT SPRINGS – OUTBACK ADVENTURES RENTAL SHOP
Take a break from school work and reward yourself over Thanksgiving (Thursday through Sunday)! As we move up the 
river, the valley turns to canyon with walls towering vertically out of the river. We might see Bighorn Sheep and what is 
left of silver and gold mines. Camping on the river at Arizona Hot Springs, we will soak away the cold. We will enjoy a 
heated waterfall in Goldstrike Canyon, explore a sauna cave, and get close-ish to the Hoover Dam. Pre-trip meeting: 
November 20, 6pm at the Outback Adventures Rental Shop. Signup online at http://tinyurl.com/kefmaqd, Outback 
Adventures Rental Shop located behind Pepper Canyon, Surf Shop in Price Center, or call 858-534-0684. Students 
$325/Others $360. This trip fills early, so register soon. On the day of the event, meet at Outback Adventures Rental 
Shop.
11am
ALL-CAMPUS THANKSGIVING FEAST – CAFÉ VENTANAS
Join us for the 2nd annual All-Campus Thanksgiving Feast on Thursday, November 28 in Cafe Ventanas! Enjoy fun 
games and activities from 11:00 am-1:00 pm followed by a delicious meal served from 1pm-2:30pm. Tickets are $5 
(payable with cash, dining dollars, or Triton Cash) and available at Cafe Ventanas until Sunday, November 24. Space is 
limited so get your ticket soon!POWERED BY THE CHANCELLOR’S OFFICE AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
ALL CAMPUS
If you ha ve questions, ideas or input on Sun God Festi val 
2014, at tend a Sun God Festi val Open Forum. Join fellow 
students in c reating a festival that's bet ter than a ny other! 
For mo re information, con tact avpconce rts@ucsd.edu or visit asce.ucsd.eduSUN GOD FESTI VALOPEN FORUMS
December 2 @ 12:30pm-2:30pm
Green Table Room, PC WestCLASSIFIEDS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 25, 2013 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11Classifieds$
Gua rdian Classi/f_ieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT^^^\JZKN\HYKPHUVYNJSHZZPÄLKZcrossword
ACROSS
1 Thingamajig
6 Castaway’s home
10 Unpaid credit card bills, e.g.
14 __ of the tongue
15 Celebrity chef Bobby
16 Provo’s state
17 Trailblazer Daniel
18 Bad thing to yell in a crowded theater
19 Hosiery hue
20 Borax haulers, in classic ads
23 Best kind of situation
24 Annual period
25 Getting the job done, briefly
26 Pig __ poke
27 Santa staffer
29 Eager lip sounds
31 Cowboy’s topper
35 “ ... __ saw Elba”
36 Sport __: versatile vehicle
37 LAPD alerts
41 Poker game where one might stand 
pat
46 Sam’s Club competitor
49 Confucian “path”
50 That, in Tijuana
51 Sculptures, oils, etc.
52 Sock-in-the-gut responses, in comics
55 Words of understanding
57 CBS sitcom since 2003
60 Darkroom images, for short
61 Radioer’s “Back to you”
62 New Wave band __ Boingo
64 Settled on a branch, as a bird
65 Twistable cookie
66 Actress Mary-Kate or Ashley
67 __ bargain: court deal
68 E-mail button
69 Salon coloristsDOWN
1 Chew the fat
2 Big name in gloves
3 It’s to the far right on freeways
4 Sal of “Exodus”
5 Where pirates prey
6 Far from certain
7 Covered with thick, icky liquid
8 Lash of old oaters
9 Place for mascara
10 Sonny and Cher song, e.g.
11 “Yada, yada, yada ... ”
12 President Obama
13 Hitchhikers’ digits
21 Be a rat fink
22 Witty Bombeck
23 TV’s Nick at __
28 Chimney duct
30 Not much
32 Party invitee’s buy
33 Non-Rx
34 Without ice
38 False appearance
39 Kim of “L.A. Confidential”
40 Whack, as a fly
42 Clickable PC image
43 Some West Indian religious cultists
44 Racetrack border
45 Alpo or Pedigree
46 Forty winks
47 “Animal Farm” author George
48 Inferior cigar
53 Quarterback Brett with a record 464 
TD passes
54 Charlie of 
57-Across
56 Etiquette author Post
58 “The Thin Man” dog
59 Yanks’ third baseman, familiarly
63 Switch positionsJOBS
NETWORKING OPPORTUNITY - n/a... - IF YOU 
ARE ALREADY IN THE DEATHCARE INDUSTRY, 
HERE IS AN OPPORTUNITY TO EXPAND YOUR 
NETWORK AND INCOME BY BECOMING A 
LICENSED CEMETERY SALES PERSON. CALL 
FOR MORE INFO: 866-237-1912 Listing ID: 
73208994 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
HR Internship - $1 - Mom Corps LA is an 
exciting start-up that has experienced sub -
stantial growth since opening over three 
years ago. We are looking for an intern (pay 
or college credit) who will be able to support 
our growing business. Mom Corps is a staff -
ing and search firm that specializes in con -
necting companies in need of on-demand 
employees with experienced professionals 
seeking flexible work. As the name suggests, 
Mom Corps was originally founded to serve 
women who left the workforce to raise fami -
lies and wanted to return on a part-time or 
project basis or who were working full-time 
and were seeking access to greater flex -
ibility; however, the need for flexibility has 
become universal, and we have found both 
men and individuals at different stages in 
their careers turning to Mom Corps for place -
ment in contract, temporary, part-time, or 
full-time flexible positions. Interns for Mom 
Corps LA will have the opportunity to see 
the job search process from the other side. 
You will help take notes during interviews, 
prepare resumes for presentation, review 
job descriptions, and work on improving 
Graphic Design Service for Student Organizations!
Located in PC East, 3rd Floorasgraphicstudio.ucsd.edubusiness development procedures. You will 
gain a thorough understanding of the inter -
view process, learn what interviewers are 
looking for during interviews, what makes 
a resume attractive and easy to read, and 
how to match skills to job descriptions. In 
addition, interns will see first-hand how a 
start-up expands and gains clients. We have 
two offices in Los Angeles, and the intern -
ship is flexible on start/end date../uni00A0 Listing ID: 
75627052 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
Sales and Marketing - $1- Happiness 
is an Italian clothing brand with their US 
Headquarters in Downtown Los Angeles. 
We are looking for interns to help in our LA 
Showroom with marketing, sales, PR, Styling, 
and more. We take care of everything in 
house, so we are looking for someone to 
grow with us. Candidate must be well orga -
nized, energetic, have great communication 
skills, and not afraid to share their ideas. 
Creative thinking is KEY! Listing ID: 75623319 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
ELECTRONICS
FreePC,VHS,Video AfterPay - $350.00- 
Olympic weight bench: bar not included/uni00A0 . 
Adjustable incline, flat, with attachable leg 
extension apparatus, and adjustable dip sta -
tion. Listing ID: 75250788 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
DIY iphone screen fix - $56.00- Ez DIY screen/
lcd repair kit for the most common. iPhone 
problem it provides the high quality parts 
and tools necessary for you to complete  
this repair and save yourself some money.
After this repair youll feel awesome and your 
phone will look brand new once again. DIY 
repairs also protect your privacy. Listing ID: 
73897604 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
Espresso Maker and Coffee Grinder - $110- I 
am selling a used Delonghi EC155 (listed 
as $90 on Amazon) and a Capresso Infinity 
Burr Grinder (listed as $80 on Amazon) 
together for $110 or best offer. Both are in 
great condition (I have only used them for 
about five months) and come with their 
original packaging materials. I have taken 
very good care of both machines and have regularly and properly maintained them. 
Serious offers only please./uni00A0 I am also willing 
to sell them separately for $60 each. Thanks! 
Here are Amazon links to both machines.-
EC155-Espresso-Cappuccino-Maker/dp/
B000F49XXG and -560-01-Infinity-Grinder-
Black/dp/B0000AR7SY Listing ID: 72809309 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information.
EVENTS
The Art of Changing Your Mind- Can you 
think outside of the box, and why not? 
This discussion will circle around the ques -
tion of how independent our thinking really 
is. We will discuss, for a little while, the 
question of “original thinking” , post mod -
ernistic (or other) reasons why we might or 
might not be able to think independently.
We hope to spend the larger part of the 
discussion on strategies and techniques that 
might enhance our capacity of independent 
thinking, and that strengthen our ability 
to change our mind on topics, when it is 
prudent to do so.Listing ID: 75718193 at 
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation. Tickets for Reel Big Fish at House 
Of Blues-$38 - Buy Reel Big Fish Tickets for 
Saturday, January 04, 2014 5:00 PM at House 
Of Blues - San Diego in San Diego, California 
Listing ID: 75718191 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information.
Grand Opening at Groundswell Brewing- 
Let’s visit this new Grantville brewery on 
the weekend that they open to the public. 
President Kevin Rhodes and Brewmaster 
Nick Franchak have 30 combined years 
of experience in home brewing in addi -
tion to culinary training and wine certifi -
cations. Their goal at Groundswell was to 
develop some lower (for San Diego) alcohol 
4.5%-6.5%, flavorful beer. Their short but 
sweet tap list had me at the Ginger Saison. 
Additionally their vision includes funding 
initiatives to provide fresh, clean water to 
those globally who do not not have access 
to drinking water. A $10 ticket will give you, 
logically, $10 worth of pints, tasters, or swag. 
Buy tickets HERE and make sure to select the 
Saturday, November 23, 3:30 time. Please 
purchase a ticket before RSVPing Yes to this 
event.Listing ID: 75718190 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information.Advertising and 
Marketing Majors
Looking to build your portfolio?
Attend a Plan, Pitch, Promote (P3) 
Conference at the MARCC Academy.
Enter: “Win a Conference 
Sweepstakes”
www.themarccacademy.com
Let me know your thoughts!
#MoreThanAShirt
GET ONLIN E. WEEK NIN E.
20% off Triton Family Collection
USE COUPON COD E: TRITONFAMILY13 • EXPIRES 11.30.13
to.ucsd.eduSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
RACHEL  UDA
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 25, 2013 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
Against Division II powerhouses — No. 21 
Seattle Paci/f_ic and No. 13 Western Washington — 
the UCSD women’s basketball team went 1–1 in a 
preseason tournament that brought forth would 
could be its new class of marquee players.
Juniors Miranda Seto and McKennan Bertsch 
both had big weekends. Seto – who could only 
be relied upon for a handful of points last season 
— scored 17 points against Seattle Paci/f_ic and 16 
against Western Washington, following up on a 
career-high 21 points in UCSD’s season opener. 
Similarly, Bertsch — a 5-foot-11-inch forward 
who seems to have come into her own at the start 
of the season -— posted 14 points on top of 13 
rebounds last Saturday to power UCSD’s 72–66 
overtime win against Western Washington. /T_he two, along with four-year starting for -
ward Erin Dautremont and senior guard Megan 
Perry, will look to /f_ill in the gaps le/f_t in the roster 
by graduated All-CCAA guards Daisy Feder and 
Emily Osga.
“Last year, we really relied on [Feder] to score 
points, but since we’ve lost her we’ve just all had 
to step up, ” Seto said. “Last year me and Megan 
Perry weren’t as aggressive, and we knew that we 
needed to be more aggressive on oﬀense to /f_ill in 
for Daisy and Emily. ”
Last Saturday, UCSD got oﬀ to a slow start 
against the Vikings, down 32–19 by the end of the 
/f_irst half. 
UCSD’s historic season came to 
a close last Friday in the third round 
of the NCAA Tournament last week 
against Simon Fraser. 
Playing to a 1–1 draw a/f_ter two 
overtime periods, the Tritons fell 4–3 
in its second penalty kick shootout of 
the postseason. 
“I thought our guys were tremen -
dous in the game, I couldn’t have 
asked for anything more, ” UCSD head 
coach Jon Pascale said to the UCSD 
Athletics Department. 
/T_he Tritons took the early lead on 
a goal by junior forward Alessandro 
Canale. In the 26th minute, senior 
mid/f_ielder Cory Wolfrom sent a cross 
into the 16-yard box to /f_ind Canale, 
who buried the ball in the back of the 
net.
“I thought our guys, especially in 
the middle of the /f_ield were fantastic 
— Bagheri, Bauman, Wolfrom and 
Canale were able to move the ball re -
ally well today, and I think it caught 
Simon Fraser a little by surprise. ”
A/f_ter /f_ive yellow cards, and one red 
card issued to the Clan’s Lucas Ferritto, 
the Tritons looked to be the side head -
ing to the Elite Eight, although Simon 
Fraser outshot UCSD 12–6.  But with 
less than four minutes remaining in 
regulation time, Simon Fraser’s Jovan 
Blagojevich got on the end of a Clan 
throw-in to tie the score and record his ninth goal of the season.
/T_hrough two overtime periods, 
neither side could break the tie. For 
the second time in seven days — hav -
ing beaten Chico State 5–4 in penalty 
kicks, Nov. 16 — the Tritons would 
head into a penalty kick shootout.
Last time, UCSD goalkeeper Josh 
Cohen made an unheard of three stops 
to lead the Tritons into the next round 
of the playoﬀs. /T_his time, Cohen came 
up big again, stopping Simon Fraser’s 
third and fourth attempts. But an un -
lucky miss by UCSD’s go-to free kick 
specialist Andisheh Bagheri — shoot -
ing in the one spot — as well as near-
misses from junior mid/f_ielders Bran -
don Bauman and Will Pleskow would 
mark the end of the Tritons’ season.
/T_his season was the /f_irst time in a 
decade that the Tritons had advanced 
to the NCAA Tournament and the 
/f_irst time since 2005 that UCSD went 
to the conference tournament — nar -
rowly missing a CCAA berth in 2011 
and 2012.
“We went through a lot of close 
seasons, and watching them put it 
together this season has been a lot of 
fun, ” Pascale said. “I’m excited about 
the future of this program, but the se -
niors have elevated it to a whole new 
level and for that, I will be forever 
grateful to them. ”A/f_ter dropping crucial games to 
Cal State Los Angeles and Cal State 
Bernardino last weekend, the UCSD 
women’s volleyball team wrapped 
up its regular season on Saturday 
with a four-set victory over Cal State 
Dominguez Hills at RIMAC Arena. 
/T_he Tritons /f_inish the season 25–5 
overall and 17–5 in the California 
Collegiate Athletic Association — 
dropping from second place last week 
to their /f_inal spot in third place.
“We went through two very emo -
tional and tough losses this week” , 
UCSD head coach Ricci Luyties said 
Saturday. “We were close in both but 
didn’t win. I told them [before the 
last match] we can start a new win -ning streak right now. Coming back 
a/f_ter those emotional losses is always 
tough, but I think they came out and 
played pretty well. ”
On Wednesday the conference’s 
top two teams clashed at RIMAC 
Arena. /T_he Tritons were hungry for 
revenge a/f_ter losing on the road 3–1 
to Cal State Bernardino earlier in the 
season, and with enough wins last 
week, the Tritons still had a chance to 
take the conference. 
UCSD took the /f_irst two sets, but 
the Coyotes stormed back and won 
the next two. Down 14–12 a tandem 
block by Caitlin Brenton and Sara 
McCutchan, along with an attack er -
ror by the Coyotes tied it at 14–14. 
UCSD had match point at 16–15 but 
At the start of a new season for the 
UCSD women’s basketball team, fans 
can expect to see a strong rookie class, 
who will bring some youth and exu -
berance to the program. 
/T_he reigning California Colle -
giate Athletic Association tournament 
champions brought on six incoming 
freshman: Cassie MacLeod, Hannah 
Johnson, Taylor Tanita, McKenzie 
Bolden, Jacquelynne White and Haley 
Anderson. 
UCSD brought on two new incom -
ing forwards this year in MacLeod of 
Chaminade College Prep in Westlake 
Village, Calif., and Hannah Johnson 
of Saratoga High School. /T_he two will 
battle with stalwart forward Erin Dau -
tremont and junior forward McKen -
nan Bertsch to crack UCSD’s starting /f_ive.
/T_hree games into the season, the 
Tritons have not seen much of John -
son, but MacLeod has seen some time 
on the court — appearing, most nota -
bly, for 15 minutes in last Friday’s loss 
to No. 21 Seattle Paci/f_ic and scoring  
seven points. 
In addition, UCSD picked up four 
guards, including Tanita, White, An -
derson and McKenzie “Georgie” Bold -
en— so-called for her Georgia roots.
Freshman guard White, from Indio 
High School, is a human biology ma -
jor from Eleanor Roosevelt College, 
who said UCSD’s top-notch reputation 
made her decision to come and play 
here easy.
“I got into this school academically, 
and then made contact with the coach -
es to see if I could come here to play 
basketball, ” White said. “I just thought 
this was a really good school academi -cally and athletically so I thought this 
would be a great /f_it for me. ”
So far, White said, the best part of 
the school year has been the basketball 
program.
“Just being a part of the team and 
having those 17 other people there for 
me to hang out with and to go through 
the pain, struggle and accomplish -
ments together has been great. ” 
Anderson, another human biology 
major from Marshall College, came to 
UCSD from Oak Ridge High School in 
El Dorado Hills, Calif. 
Coming oﬀ a very successful senior 
season at Oak Ridge, the freshman 
guard recounts her Delta River League 
Championship, perfect 10–0 season 
and high-ranking playoﬀ /f_inish as a 
solid stepping stone into her collegiate 
career. 
“Personally, I feel as though my One-One weekend
The Tritons fell to Seattle Pacific before taking down 
No. 13 Western Washington in overtime.WOMEN'S   BASKETBALL
BY   r a c h e l  u d a   sports  editor
BY  r a c h e l  u d a   sports  editor
BY   K r i s t e n  W i l l m o n
    STAFF  writerSee WOMEN’S BASKETBALL , page 9
See WOMEN’S BBALL , page 9Soccer Suffers Tragic 
Loss In Penalty ShootoutUCSD Ends CCAA 
Conference in Third Place
Women’s Basketball Recruits Six Up 
and Comers for Upcoming SeasonTritons end regular season, falling to San Bernardino 
and Los Angeles before beating Dominguez Hills.
UCSD Basketball welcomes two forwards and four guards to 2013-2014 roster.  MEN'S  SOCCERWOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL
WOMEN'S   BASKETBALLBY   r i t a  e r i t s l a n d   editorial  assistant
MEN’S BASKETBALL
WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
MEN’S BASKETBALL
WOMEN’S BASKETBALL11/27
11/29
11/30
11/30VS St. Katrine College
VS Metro State
VS Academy of  Art
VS Azusa Paci/f_icUPCOMING
UCSD
GAMES
readers  can  contact
rachel usa    ruda@ucsd.edu  See VOLLEYBALL , page 9
Haley Anderson Hannah Johnson McKenzie Bolden Cassie MacLeod Jacquelynne White Taylor Tanita2525212116 UCSD
1317252518CAL STATE 
BERNARDINO
18202627 UCSD
25252429CAL STATE
LA
UCSD
CAL STATE
DOMINGUEZ
HILLS25281825
20262516VOLLEYBALL SCOREBOARDPHOTO BY BEATRIZ BAJUELOS / GUARDIAN