Revelle College’s Plaza Cafe dining hall has 
been closed for the last two months for 
renovations that are slated to be com -
pleted by September 2014. As a result, residents 
of Revelle have had to adjust their eating plans 
for this year, turning to the temporary “Incredi-
Bowls” food truck and Roger’s Place, with some 
making the trek north to Pines and Goody’s. 
The food truck serves breakfast from 7:30 
a.m. to 10 a.m. before taking a one-hour break 
to serve lunch from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. Generally, 
students are receptive to the food truck that is 
parked in Revelle Plaza, but the arrangements 
are viewed as inconvenient by some, including 
freshman Revelle resident Lynnay Consul.
“I think the food truck is a good solution, ” 
Consul said. “I just think that the best way to 
go would have been to improve the hours that 
it’s open. It’s really inconvenient to have to go to 
Pines all the time. ”
Revelle HDH Assistant Manager Kathy 
Gugino explains that it is difficult to keep the 
food truck open at night because of the insuf -ficient lighting in Revelle Plaza. She continues 
to explain that it is not financially beneficial 
to keep the food truck open during the week -
ends, stating that even Plaza Cafe was closed 
for the weekends when it was still in service. 
Nevertheless, the food truck remains a food 
source for Revelle students.
“We’re going to, probably next quarter, 
change our menu, ” Gugino said. “They’re going 
to come up with new ideas of bowls, and, you 
know, nothing’s out of the question. We try to do 
the best we can to provide what we can. ”
In addition to the food truck, Revelle stu -
dents have opted for alternative eateries, includ -
ing Pines, Goodies and Price Center. For stu -
dents living in the Keeling Apartments, cook -
ing their own meals is another option that 
they’ve been exploring. Sophomore Revelle resi -
dent Elias Rodriguez is unfazed by the dining 
arrangements.
“It doesn’t really affect me. I cook most VOLUME 47, ISSUE 11  THURSDAY , OCTOBER 31, 2013  WWW. UCSD GUARDIA N.ORG
SURFING THE 
RADIO WAVES
San Diego-area rock band 
Switchfoot discusses its 
new album and accompa -
nying ﬁlm, “Fading West,” 
documenting their surﬁng 
and travels in the Paciﬁc.  
A&E, PAGE 8
CHE  SHOULD  ST A Y
THIS  IS  HALLOWEENrethinking  management
diy costumes and  p artiesopinion,  P age   4
lifestyle,  P age   6
THURSDA Y
H 75 L 51FRIDA Y
H 81 L 54
SATURDA Y
H 74 L 53SUNDA Y
H 66 L 50
FORE CAST
VERBATIM
INSIDEIt’s Hallow -
een, go get 
all forms of 
drunk, with 
that person 
dressed 
as Jesus, I 
heard he forgives.”
- Vincent Pham
FRESHMAN FAUX PAS
LIFESTYLE,  PAGE 9
News Business  ............... 3
Rhyme or Reason  ........... 4
Letter to the Editor  .......... 5
The Haunted Tape Deck  ..8
Sudoku  ......................... 10
Sports  ........................... 12
“SAN  DIEGO
Philip Huh
First-year SenatorJacqueline Doan
First-year SenatorRushil Patel
First-year SenatorDominick 
Suvonnasupa
Transfer SenatorRicky Martorana
Transfer SenatorCOUNCIL NAMES NEW SENATORS
A.S. Council conﬁrmed ﬁve new councilmembers — three new freshman senators and two new transfer senators  — at its meeting Wednesday 
night meeting. The appointments came after four other senators turned in their resignations this month. SEE NEWS BUSINESS, PAGE 3
INVESTIGA TIVE  RE POR T
Revelle Residents Seek
Alternative Food Options
The “Incredi-Bowl” food truck is only open until 2 p.m., 
forcing residents to search elsewhere for evening meals.
BY  karen  to   contributing  writer     Photo  b y   taylor  sanderson
See REVELLE , page 3Fecal Odor 
Returns 
to La Jolla 
Cove Area
After spending $50,000 
cleaning up bird 
droppings, officials now 
blame sea lions for smell. 
BY  Gabriella Fleischman   
contributing  writer
Residents of La Jolla Cove are 
again complaining of the stench of 
animal droppings, only four months 
after the city spent $50,000 to eradi -
cate the smell. However, this time it 
is primarily sea lion feces rather than 
bird droppings that are causing the 
unpleasant odor.
Last June, former San Diego mayor 
Bob Filner initiated the removal of the 
stench from La Jolla Cove by autho -
rizing the cleanup of the bird poop. 
Blue Eagle Cleaning Distribution, Inc. 
sprayed the rocks with a natural bac -
teria that ate away the fecal waste over 
the course of two treatments.
The problem was reportedly 
eliminated and the stench tempered. 
However, the cleaning was supposed 
to be an immediate, short-term solu -
tion. Reaching a long-term solution 
was interrupted due to the scandal 
surrounding Filner that led to his res -
ignation. Now, the odor has resurfaced 
with the growing sea lion population.
“These animals eat a very rich diet 
of bait fish such as anchovies, and 
they’re very large so the quantity and 
quality of their fecal matter intro -
duced a new problem, ” spokesperson 
for the City of San Diego Parks and 
Recreation Department Bill Harris 
said. “We have had accumulation 
of fecal matters and a low surf pat -
tern with no rain sufficient to take 
the deposits away in that same time 
period. ”
A range of community represen -
tatives including business owners 
and representatives of La Jolla Town 
Council met yesterday to discuss the 
See ODO R, page 3
MOBILE BOWLS
The “Incredi-
Bowls” truck 
doesn’t meet the 
needs of Revelle 
students. See 
OPINION, page 4PHOTOS  BY TAYLOR  SANDERSO N/GUARDIA N2 THE UCSD GUARDIA N | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 31, 2013 | WWW. UCSD GUARDIA N.ORG NEW S
to.ucsd.eduON CAMPUS. ONLINE. ON POINT.
 
"1#)	,)% OFF ALL SUN GOD FESTIVAL MERCH
USE COUPON COD E:	
!	
#More'#nAShirt
DO YOU TWEET? YAY SO DO WE!
@UCSDGua rdian
FLEETING THOUGHTS By Irene Chiang
QUITE FRANKLY By Lior Schenk
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and 
Thursdays during the academic year by UCSD  students 
and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this 
newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, 
without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2013, all 
rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible 
for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The 
views expressed herein do not necessarily represent 
the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of 
California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian 
is funded by advertising. VINTAGE.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035
Twitter @UCSDGuardian
www.facebook.com/ucsdguardianBusiness Manager
Emily Ku 
Advertising Director  
Noelle Batema
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Page Layout
Amber Shroyer, Dorothy Van, Joselynn Ordaz, Yolanda FungLaira Martin
Zev Hurwitz
Allie Kiekhofer
Mekala Neelakantan
Aleksandra Konstantinovic
Lauren Koa
Kelvin Noronha
Rachel Uda
Stacey Chien
Vincent Pham
Jacqueline Kim
Brian Monroe
Taylor Sanderson
Sara Shroyer
Zoë McCracken
Jeffrey Lau
Jenny Park
Rachel Huang
Claire Yee
Madeline MannEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
Deputy Managing Editor
News Editor
Associate News Editor
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
Lifestyle Editor
A&E Editor
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Associate Copy Editors
Training & Development
Copy Readers
Clara Chao, Rosina Garcia, Andrew Huang,
Susan Shamoon
Editorial Assistants
Rita Eritsland, Shelby Newallis
Researchers at the UCSD School 
of Medicine have finally found a via -
ble way to utilize the staurosporine 
compound as an anti-cancer drug 
after years of roadblocks by various 
unwanted side effects and unknown 
effective delivery paths.
The compound — taken from 
the Streptomyces staurosporeus bac -
terium — works by inducing self-
destruction in cancer cells. 
“Basically, people have been 
working with the compound for 
three to four decades to make it into 
a viable drug, but it’s been limited 
because it’s very toxic and highly pro -
tein-bound, ” UCSD Moores Cancer 
Center Director of Neuro-Oncology 
Santosh Kesari said.
Kesari said that if too much STS 
is given, the cells affected will conse -
quently undergo cell death, and if too 
little STS is given, the compound will 
naturally bind to lingering proteins 
and have no efficacy. 
Scientists in the past were aware of the potential that STS had and 
tried to alter the compound to make 
it available for cancer patients. 
Modification results tended to 
be less toxic towards cancer cells 
and were clinically ineffective to 
humans. Researchers also attempted 
to use liposomes, but the delivery 
system was not refined. 
Complications led to the 
National Cancer Institute to aban -
don the research, but upon revisiting 
the NCI Clinical Collection, UCSD 
researcher Dr. Rajesh Mukthavaram 
noted that STS was one of the top compounds to kill glioblastoma 
(highly malignant cancer found in 
the brain). This fact inspired Kesari 
and his associates to overcome the 
past obstacles of deliverance.
After spending two years on the 
three-year project, Kesari solved the 
issue by perfecting the previously 
attempted liposomal technology.
“It’s a hot button thing — repur -
posing compounds we already 
know, ” Kesari said. “Take a lot of 
these drugs similar to STS and put 
it into a liposome to overcome the 
pharmacokinetic barriers. ”Liposomes, artificially created 
and lipid-bound vesicles, are pack -
aged with STS and then released in 
the body. The liposomes selectively 
travel to the tumor and dump the 
toxic payload, all without affecting 
normal cells. Being able to prop -
erly administer STS maximizes its 
potential, which is STS’s ability to 
deal with solid and liquid tumors. 
Soon-to-be-published research also 
shows that STS can reach brain 
tumors directly, a normally difficult 
area for cancer treatment.
“We were thrilled to be able to 
retool this compound that’s been 
around for decades in a novel way to 
be used for the future, ” Kesari said 
about his findings.
The team’s research has a patent 
on it and a company ready to license 
the drug. Within the next two years, 
Kesari is hoping to see STS used as 
a new anti-cancer drug for clinical 
trials and patients alike.SCIENCE  &  TECHNOLOGY
BY VINCENT   P HA M SENIOR  STAFF  WRITER
readers  can  contact
VINCENT   P HA M    VNP003@ucsd.edu  
Anti-Cancer Drug Makes Cancer Cells Self-DestructNEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIA N | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 31, 2013 | WWW. UCSD GUARDIA N.ORG 3
Transportation Services 
Town Hall Meeting
Do you have ideas for improving the current parking 
system or funding campus alternative transportation 
programs? Share them with us at the town hall meeting, 
featuring panelists from Auxiliary Business Services, 
Transportation Services, Physical and Community Planning 
and undergraduate students. 
Town Hall Meeting
Wednesday, Nov. 6
11 a.m. to 12:30 p.m.
ERC, Great Hall
moveucsandiego.ucsd.eduLast night’s council meeting was 
surprisingly entertaining; unfortu -
nately, my entertainment came at 
the expense of a few councilmem -
bers’ feelings. But I’m getting ahead 
of myself.
To start the night off, council 
appointed five new senators, three 
freshmen and two transfers. AVP 
Environmental and Social Justice 
Affairs Jillian Du 
then presented 
a dazzling Prezi 
to advocate her 
office and intro -
duce campaigns. 
This included revamping reusable 
dishware for HDH dining halls 
(please, don’t make me feel guilty for 
minimizing the weight of my salad 
by taking it to go), maintain UCSD’s 
fair-trade standard, and 
work on a water bottle 
ban on campus. 
Another ASESJA ini -
tiative that sufficiently 
impressed council was a 
solar charging station sur -
rounded by hammocks, 
called Solar Chill. AVP 
Environmental and Social 
Justice Jillian Du said 
that the project is likely 
to become actualized this 
year, much to everyone’s 
excitement — including my own.
VP Finance & Resources Sean 
O’Neal then made a presentation 
for his budget proposal, made bear -
able to sit through because of its 
Zelda theme. The budget was then 
reviewed and approved in 36 min -
utes, a surprising and impressive 
model of efficiency. The night’s first 
contention came when dispersing 
money owed to the six college coun -
cils.
“I just want to express my disap -
pointment that lots of good A.S. programs were cut, and now — not 
to be offensive — it’s going to be 
going to pizza for certain colleges, ” 
Social Sciences Senator Colin King 
said. “$5,000 worth of pizza. ”
Discussion ensued, ending with 
very wise words from AVP Diversity 
Affairs Oscar Gomez: “Please talk to 
me after the meeting — I really don’t 
want to waste any more time. ”
Following the 
approval of the 
budget, Council 
opened a caucus 
to discuss expec -
tations. The first 
issue to spur dissent was perhaps the 
most vitally important of the night: 
whether to continue showing sup -
port through hand “twinkling, ” or 
to revert to snapping. An unofficial 
vote showed snapping 
to be the more popular 
choice. I have to agree.
C ou nc i l me mb e rs 
were encouraged to 
read bylaws in order to 
fulfill their job descrip -
tion, leading to heated 
reactions from those 
who clearly thought 
they were fulfill -
ing their jobs and did 
not appreciate being 
accused otherwise.
This escalated into tension 
between college council representa -
tives and A.S. Council, which was 
simply uncomfortable to witness 
(although at the same time amus -
ing).
Perhaps A.S. Council should lis -
ten to Campuswide Senator Jordan 
Coburn: “I would love for people to 
talk to each other and be nice and 
be friends. I really think things will 
get better. ” 
Don’t worry, new appointees. It 
gets better from here.Council Appoints Freshman 
Senators, Revises New Budget
gabriella  fleischman  
gfleisch@ucsd.edunew s  businessDean of Arts and Humanities Dr. Seth Lerer 
announced this week that he will step down from his 
position on June 30 and return to full-time service as 
a Distinguished Professor in UCSD’s literature depart -
ment, according to a campus notice released by the 
Office of the Chancellor on Wednesday.
The release said that Lerer acted as Dean for nearly 
six years, assisting in research and the creation of the 
Arthur C. Clarke Center for Human Imagination, as well 
as in the establishment of the Student Production Fund 
campaign. During that time, Lerer also authored two 
books and various articles.
of the time either way, and then I 
go to Price Center sometimes, ” said 
Rodriguez.
Some students find it easier to sim -
ply go off campus for their meals like 
junior Jon Haapala does.
“I’m an RA so I have Triton Cash. 
I’ll go to Price Center, or I can go off 
campus and use some money there, ” said Haapala.
The design and construction plans 
for Plaza Cafe have already been final -
ized, along with the budget and sched -
ule for the renovation. Now, the project 
is entering its early stages of recon -
struction. 
Executive Director of UCSD’s 
Housing and Dining Services Mark 
Cunningham said he hopes to provide 
the latest influx of students with a brand new facility and dining options.
“When completed, this facil -
ity will be a community space where 
residents want to eat, study and relax, ” 
Cunningham said. “[It] will be a des -
tination featuring a courtyard with an 
outdoor fireplace and sustainable land -
scaping, ” Cunningham said.Department of literature professor Rosemary 
Marangoly George passed away on Oct. 18, after 20 years 
of service at UCSD. 
As a professor, George focused on British and 
South Asian literature, also taking part in creating the 
Literatures of the World program at UCSD.
“Her books offer nuanced and richly textured studies 
of the relationship of literature to the worlds of British 
India, modern South Asia and South Asian diaspora, 
and all are characterized by her intelligence and unique 
sensibility, ” Dean of Arts and Humanities Seth Lerer said 
in a campus notice. 
problem and possible options.
“I wouldn’t say that any proposals 
were made, but potential options were 
discussed, ” Harris said. “Every solu -
tion has a host of conditions that limits 
what we can do along the cliff face. 
There are layers upon layers of envi -
ronmental regulations in this area. ”
Some of the options discussed 
included relocating the sea lions, put -ting barges offshore, applying stron -
ger chemicals to the cliffs on a more 
regular basis and getting an exemption 
from the Areas of Special Biological 
Significance standards in order to dis -
charge into La Jolla Bay.
However, each of these options was 
met with further obstacles. Relocating 
the sea lions would merely move the 
problem rather than eliminate it, off -
shore barges would likely attract addi -
tional animals and chemical applica -tion is difficult with the many environ -
mental regulations.
“We cannot expect the stench to 
be gone any time soon. It’s a com -
plex issue given the restraints of this 
particular site, ” Harris said. “This is 
a very complicated matter, but we’re 
working very hard to get it figured 
out and we will. ”Literature Professor 
Passes Away At 52
BY  Mekala  Neelakant an   News  EditorArts Dean Says He 
Will Step Down
BY  Mekala  Neelakant an   News  Editor
Readers  can  contact  
Mekala  Neelakant an  mneelaka@ucsd.edu
Options Include Relocating Animals and Applying Chemicals
/uni25B6 ODO R, from page 1
readers  can  contact
Gabriella Fleischman     gfleisch@ucsd.edu  
Admin. Hopes New Plaza Cafe Will Satisfy Revelle Residents
/uni25B6 REVELLE,  from page 1
readers  can  contact
karen  to     kat0@ucsd.edu  I would love 
for people to 
talk to each 
other and be 
nice and be 
friends.”
- Jordan Coburn
Campuswide Senator“Readers  can  contact  
Mekala  Neelakant an  mneelaka@ucsd.eduOPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
LAUREN  KOA
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | T HURSDAY , OCTOB ER 31, 2013 | WWW. UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 
After 33 years on campus, the Che 
Cafe Collective is in rather dire 
straits. After already having lost 
its nonprofit status and having narrowly 
escaped issues over insurance payments 
in 2012, the Che has been slapped with 
a default notice from the University 
Centers Advisory Board requiring a 
solid financial strategy within 30 days or 
risk shutdown.
The tragedy of the situation is that 
even with its money troubles, the Che 
Cafe has been a UCSD landmark and 
local icon, known for its indie con -
certs and other entertainment events. 
Between hosting breakout acts, such 
as Green Day and Bon Iver, and its 
counterculture-cool ambiance, the Che 
has endeared itself to a wide audience 
of UCSD students and music fans. We 
don’t want to see its doors shut just 
because they couldn’t find a way to 
pay their bills. With just responsible 
management and a clear plan for finan -
cial self-sufficiency, it could remain a 
vibrant community fixture.
What is clear is that some change is 
needed if we expect to see the Che stay. Y ear after year, the establishment has 
gone through various financial troubles, 
including skyrocketing debt and eventu -
ally the loss of its nonprofit status. The 
latter ultimately triggered the UCAB’s 
decision to hold the Cafe to a default 
since only a nonprofit organization is 
permitted to occupy the space. These 
woes can only realistically be attributed 
to deficient administration; the Cafe’s 
management needs to realize that if 
they want to keep control, they will have 
to find a way to balance their budget, 
whether it be through better marketing 
or higher cover charges. The Che has 
already skipped out on its rent payments 
for some time and even without them 
can’t keep itself afloat, resulting in a loss 
for the University Centers.
To be fair, the Che isn’t the only 
co-op with financial troubles, but the 
aimless leadership isn’t helping their 
situation. It has certainly been a tough 
year for other co-ops too; the tobacco 
ban dissolved a significant portion of 
the General Store’s revenue, and A.S. 
Council grilled all of them last year over 
their failure to pay rent and their gen -
See CHE CAFE , page 5Your Future  
Self  Might 
Hate Y our 
Cat Tattoo
Laira Martin
EDITOR IN CHI EF
Zev Hurwitz
MANAGING EDITOR
Allie Kiekhofer
DEPUTY MANAGING EDITOR
Lauren Koa
OPINION EDITOR
Kelvin Noronha
ASSOCIATE OPINION EDITOR
Mekala Neelakantan
NEWS EDITOR
 
Aleksandra Konstantinovic
ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITOREDITORIAL  BOARD
The UCS D Guardian is published twice a week at the 
University of California at San Diego. Contents © 
2012. Views expressed herein represent the majority 
vote of the editorial board and are not necessarily those 
of the UC Board of Regents, the ASUCS D or the 
members of the Guardian staff. Embattled Che Cafe Collective needs to rethink its financial 
strategies to preserve the establishment’s iconic history.
In an effort not to talk about 
A.S. Council for just one issue (for -
give us, please), we’ve decided to 
focus our attention on the hot mess 
that is Revelle College’s dining and 
market system. 
Last year, after multiple attempts 
to keep Revelle’s Plaza Cafe din -
ing hall afloat, Housing, Dining 
and Hospitality Services members 
closed the venue for a yearlong 
upgrade in hopes that a newly reno -
vated hall would be able to generate 
much-needed revenue. On top of 
that, Roger’s Place was relocated to 
Blake Hall’s measly lounge center, 
unfairly leaving Revelle students 
with a smaller market and no din -
ing hall to speak of.
HDH began this school year 
with a handful of problems, and put Revelle’s food services at the end 
of their to-do list. Plaza Cafe has 
been inadequately substituted by the 
“Incredi-Bowls” food truck, open 
in Revelle Plaza from 7:30 a.m. to 2 
p.m. on weekdays, but Revelle stu -
dents deserve more.
Granted, the food truck is try -
ing to offset the lack of a dining 
hall with an attempted variety of 
breakfast and lunch options, but 
it’s just not possible for the 3,918 
Revelle students to subsist on small, 
bowl-only meals like the “Sesame 
Sensation” and “Chicken ‘n’ Tots. ” 
In addition, the food truck does 
not provide dinner options — appar -
ently due to insufficient lighting 
— and is closed on weekends for 
financial benefit. And that doesn’t 
even account for the incredible lines of students who wait to grab a quick 
meal. The result is that Revelle stu -
dents are forced to make the trek to 
Pines, Goody’s or Price Center (for 
those who feel up to the trek), causing 
a domino effect that creates traffic in 
the other college dining halls and gen -
eral inconvenience for students.
However, the problem with this 
situation is not necessarily that 
students have to walk so far, but 
the fact that the Revelle food truck 
clearly does not suffice as an alter -
native. Instead, Revelle students 
are behaving as they did when the 
expensive, unappetizing Plaza Cafe 
was open, defeating the purpose of 
“Incredi-Bowls” and putting them in 
limbo as they wait for a new place to 
eat that will hopefully be worth the 
tremendous hassle.According to HDH plans, the 
new, renamed dining hall will fea -
ture a smoothie or sushi bar, as well 
as a fireplace for a cozier atmosphere 
— let’s just hope changing most of 
the Plaza Cafe menu was also on the 
list of renovations.
Until then, we urge HDH to take 
a better look at “Incredi-Bowls” and 
find a way to increase its hours of 
operation  because, quite frankly, 
it’s unfair. The bottom line is this: 
UCSD students have paid a hefty 
amount to attend this school and 
amid temporary double housing 
arrangements and transportation 
crises, they at least deserve a consis -
tent, convenient way to get food on 
campus — even if it is temporarily 
from a truck whose slogan is “Bowl 
up and Chow down. ”Revelle’s Food Truck Is an Inadequate Dining Hall ReplacementIllustra tion   b y   jenny  leeAs I was crooning along to 
“Take a Walk” at a Passion 
Pit show last week, I started 
to wonder if I would still love lead 
singer Michael Angelakos’ high-
pitched falsetto next year, or the year 
after that. During my sophomore 
year, I had gone to see Two Door 
Cinema Club at the House of Blues, 
but now, I chronically skip over 
their songs when they come up on 
iTunes shuffle. Taking class upon 
class of upper-division psychology 
has taught me to second-guess my 
every move, making me the concert 
buzzkill while even the old guy next 
to me is fist pumping away.
I wasn’t wrong to doubt myself 
— as it turns out, people tend to 
possess an unfounded faith in the 
stability of their current personali -
ties and tastes over time. A study led 
by social psychologists at Harvard 
University and the University of 
Virginia earlier this year reveals that 
this is a systematic and fundamental 
perceptual mistake committed by 
those of all ages. They appropriately 
dubbed this the “end of history illu -
sion, ” wherein people readily admit 
how much they have matured over 
the past 10 years, but underestimate 
the extent to which they will change 
over the next decade. “ At every age, 
we think we’re having the last laugh, 
and at every age, we’re wrong, ” 
Daniel T. Gilbert, one of the paper’s 
authors, said.
This illusion lends itself to a 
number of practical consequences, 
such as shunting aside future con -
cerns in order to indulge in pres -
ent preferences. One of my best 
friends currently sports 11 tattoos 
and counting (possibly more, I’ve 
lost track over the years), and he 
swears he will still proudly wear 
them all when he’s 50. Somehow, I 
doubt that. Even Maroon 5 front -
man Adam Levine admitted that 
the Russian tattoo he used to think 
was edgy now vaguely resembles 
“a cauliflower with a sun in the 
middle of it. ”
When making decisions that 
have lasting repercussions, it’s pru -
dent to examine the preferences, 
traits and values of those who are 
older and in the same social net -
work as we are. This is especially 
applicable when figuring out which 
graduate school or post-graduate job 
to commit to, or in deciding whether 
moving to the Big Apple really will 
be the be-all, end-all. In an interview 
with The Boston Globe, Gilbert 
pointed to his 2009 study, in which 
he found that people made better 
choices when they were informed by 
a similar person’s experiences than 
when they were aware of the details 
of the event itself. This means, in 
clearer terms, that you should use 
other people as your guinea pigs to 
avoid being the screw-up of the fam -
ily. And if your sister from another 
mister is currently unemployed and 
an active member of the couch-
surfing community, you might want 
to think twice before you jet off to 
Africa on a wild whim to save the 
elephants like she did.
So, before you decide to get 
gauges or agree to be wifed up to 
the first half-decent guy you date, 
remember that psychology says that 
you’re unlikely to find either holes 
in your earlobes or that sorry sucker 
attractive years down the line.
Che in ChainsED ITOR IALS
hilar y  lee  hhl009@ucsd.eduRhyme  or  reasonO PI N ION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | T HURSDAY , OCTOB ER 31, 2013 | WWW. UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 5
eral financial insolvency. But these 
troubles only increase the need for 
leaders that can realize the press -
ing need to cut expenditure. We do 
commend the Che’s staff for making 
a sacrifice and operating on a vol -
unteer-only basis — this signifies at 
least a concerted effort on the part of 
the management to break even, but 
they will also need to start making 
better business decisions if they want 
to right the ship and stay open. 
If the student management fails 
to keep the Che going, there remains 
the possibility of the Che becoming a 
regular for-profit business. Although 
this would likely make Cafe name -
sake Che Guevara roll over in his 
grave, it might be the only way for revenue stability. 
But should the current leader -
ship depart, however, it would mean 
one less independent, student-run 
operation on campus. Price Center 
is already filled to the brim with big 
chain companies like Subway and 
Burger King. And with Starbucks 
already likely to displace the Espresso 
Roma Cafe, the last thing we need 
is another corporate conglomerate 
throwing its 1-percenter shadow over 
what could be an opportunity for 
students to gain meaningful experi -
ence operating a business and mak -
ing decisions about how it is run. For 
all its money mishaps, the Che is a 
wonderful — and popular — place 
for music and food, not to mention 
an occasional hotbed of political 
activism. Given that the only compa -rable place nearby is the rather bor -
ing Loft, the Che is worth preserving, 
even at a cost. Given that it has oper -
ated for decades under the banner 
of fierce independence and general 
anti-establishment fervor, selling out 
to corporate interests would be a sad 
way to go. We hope this is not the 
only possible course of action, but it 
may be if the finances don’t add up. 
Despite Cafe members’ com -
plaints that the university adminis -
tration has a vendetta against them, 
those running the Che will only 
have themselves to blame if they 
do eventually go under. They need 
to get their act together, get help 
or hand the reins over to someone 
with more fiscal acumen. Fewer 
than 30 days remain for them to 
decide which it will be.
Have you recently been vaccinated 
against Whooping Cough (Tdap) 
within the last year?
We are studying the bacteria (B. Pertussis) that causes whooping cough in 
humans.  Our study is aimed at understanding how the current vaccine works 
and we are looking for healthy volunteers, between the ages of 18 and 65 that 
have been vaccinated against pertussis in the last year and are willing to 
make blood donation(s). Qualified participants will be asked to provide 
information regarding their vaccination history and will be provided 
compensation for donating blood.If you would like more information or think that you 
may be eligible for this study, please call our study 
coordinator at (858) 752-6979 or email study@lji.org.
HALCYON DAYS By Christie Yi
Our Campus Should Not Lose Another Student-Run Business
/uni25B6 CHE CAFE,  from page 4LETTER  TO  THE  ED ITOR
Dear Editor,
UCSD Vice Chancellor Gary 
C. Matthews’ yearly base salary is 
$275,000. His newly enacted policy 
on Graffiti Hall — which resulted 
in the arrest of Dean Burdeaux, a 
psychology major from the senior 
UCSD class, among other things 
— shows Matthews to be overpaid 
since no reasoning was involved 
beyond the “Intrusive, Safety 
Hazard” parameters.
In part, because of the dramatic 
expansion in the ranks of non-fac -
ulty campus administrators, colleges 
have enacted stringent codes. These 
codes are sometimes well intended, 
but, outside of the ivory tower, 
would violate the constitutional 
guarantee of freedom of speech. 
From protests and rallies to dis -
plays of graffiti, students have been 
severely constrained in their ability 
to demonstrate their ideas. 
I used to read classical poetry 
in English on a weekly KCST radio 
show.  Back in 2012, I read the 
complete poems of English poet 
John Milton and American poet 
Walt Whitman.  Eventually we 
KCST disc jockeys were informed 
that surveillance cameras would be 
installed to catch malefactors in the 
studio (The stated purpose was to catch wine imbibers). 
So I resigned. The speech codes 
are at times intended to enforce 
civility, but they often suppress free 
of expression. 
Burdeaux’s transgression was 
documented by security cameras, 
and he was taken off to county jail 
on the cold evening of Sept. 27, 2013.
Were he still alive, Albert Einstein’s 
response to the painting over of 
Graffiti Hall would probably have 
been, “Vey iz mir” — “Woe is me. ” 
Einstein’s work in his “miracle 
year” (1905) eventually led to 
the discovery of X-ray crystal -
lography, the photoelectric effect 
and transistors. On April 6, 1914, 
Einstein moved to Berlin, and it 
was there that he gave his inaugural 
speech to the Prussian Academy 
of Sciences. Less than six months 
later Germany declared war on 
Russia. The Einsteins’ street address 
throughout the Great War was No. 5, 
Haberlandstrasse, Berlin. 
A court in Germany has ruled 
that Germans today are allowed 
to stick their tongues out for their 
passport photos. The plaintiff (after 
being emphatically told not to do 
what he did) gave his reasoning: “I 
brought it before the court as a trib -
ute to my hero, Albert Einstein. ” 
Go Tritons!  
— Richard Thompson
Alumnus ‘83Graﬃti Hall Closure 
Sti/f_les Student Voices
/uni25B6 The Guardian  welcomes letters from its readers. All letters must be addressed, 
and written, to the editor of the Guardian . Letters are limited to 500 words, and 
all letters must include the writer’s name, college and year (undergraduates), 
department (graduate students or professors) or city of residence (local 
residents). A maximum of three signatories per letter is permitted. The 
Guardian Editorial Board reserves the right to edit for length, accuracy, 
clarity and civility. The Editorial Board reserves the right to reject letters for 
publication. Due to the volume of mail we receive, we do not confirm receipt or 
publication of a letter.
email: opinion@ucsdguardian.orgIt’s officially autumn, 
which means pumpkin-
flavored everything, 
sweater weather and, best of 
all, Halloween. Y our days of 
trick-or-treating may be over, 
but there are still plenty of 
ways to indulge your childlike 
desire to play dress up and 
overload on sugary treats.
DIY HALLOWEEN PARTY
DIA DE LOS MUERTOSBARE BONES FUN
Homemade Halloween costumes guaranteed to entertain more than a devil 
costume you pay $40 for online. There are so many inexpensive ways to dress 
up, whether by using clothes you already have or borrowing from a friend. For 
the guys: Luckily, the TV gods have blessed you this year with “Breaking Bad’s” 
W alter White, which is bound to be a smash-hit costume. Re-create W alter’s 
iconic look when he’s stranded out in the desert in the series premiere — all 
you need is a green button-down shirt, some tighty-whities, glasses and brown 
shoes. If you don’t have a green button-down, or don’t feel comfortable enough 
to strut your stuff in only your briefs, channel Jim Halpert’s costume on “The 
Office” as BookFace. Just write the word “book” across your face, and when 
people ask you who you are, tell them you’re BookFace. It might take them a few 
minutes to get your costume, but it’s a good way to assess their wit. Gals: Grab a 
few friends, and you can dress as minions from “Despicable Me. ” All you need 
is a yellow tank top, a stretchy black headband and two clear plastic cups. Glue 
white paper onto the bottom of the cups, draw a black dot in the middle and 
attach them to the headband — now you’ve got minion goggles. If you’re in a 
pinch and need a last-minute costume, dress as feminist icon Rosie the Riveter. 
All you need is a red bandana, a blue button-down shirt, red lipstick and confi -
dence, and you’re all set.c/o_stume/s.end foo/d.end&drin/k.end
decorFall is the perfect time of the year to take advantage of the 
seasonal produce and get creative in the kitchen. Y ou can get as 
gourmet as pumpkin risotto or keep it simple with hot apple cider 
— either way, there are plenty of ways to capture the essence of fall 
flavors in your cooking. For an easy and festive Halloween drink, 
make “pumpkin” floats for guests by serving a scoop of orange 
sherbet in a clear plastic cup, decorated with a drawn-on Jack-o-
Lantern face and pouring over cream soda (or any clear soda you’ d 
like). For those of you who like to add an extra kick to your drink, 
pour champagne over the sherbet instead of soda.
No good Halloween party is complete without some treats. A 
quick, easy and popular treat idea is Halloween Rice Krispie Treats. 
Add orange food coloring and form them into balls to make them 
look like mini pumpkins, or just shape them into ghosts and draw 
faces on the front with black decorating frosting. Put a popsicle 
stick or skewer in the treats so your guests can eat them without 
getting their hands sticky.
When you buy them at a party supply store, decorations can get expensive. Since most of us don’t 
have a Martha Stewart-sized decorations budget, making your own decor can help minimize costs. 
One of the easiest ways to spookify your walls is by adding bats. Trace bats onto black construction 
paper, cut them out and tape them to your walls so it looks like they’re flying up the wall. Complete 
the spook effect by making glowing ghost balloons: Take white balloons, blow them and put a glow -
stick inside. Then, draw ghost faces on with a black marker. Party favors are always a cute way for 
your guests to remember the night. Create your own ghost lollipop party favors by taking a tissue 
and securing it to a lollipop (Tootsie Pops work best) with a piece of black string or ribbon, so that 
it looks like a ghost. Finish off your ghoulish gift by drawing on a ghost face, and hand them out to 
guests as they leave.
The celebrations don’t have to end at midnight on the 31st. Get your dose of 
art, history and culture at Old Town San Diego’s Dia de los Muertos celebration 
on Nov. 1 and Nov. 2 from 1 p.m. to 9 p.m. Dia de los Muertos, also known as All 
Saints’ Day in Western Europe, is a time when the spirits of loved ones return to 
celebrate with family and friends. The holiday is meant to be a time of year when 
you offer hospitality to the spirits by celebrating with food, drinks and art. There 
will be traditional Mexican cuisine, sugar skull decorating and face painting and 
live music. Admission and parking at the event is free, and you can take the MTS 
Route 30 bus there and back.BY SHELBY NEWALLIS EDITORIAL ASSISTANT
ILLUSTRATION BY ELYSE YANGHalloweekend
A&E Editor: jacqueline kim  ŭ  entertainment@ucsdguardian.org   |   Lifestyle Editor: VIncent pham  ŭ   lifestyle@ucsdguardian.orgARTS   |   FOOD & DRINK   |   LIVING   |   FILM  &  TV    |   M USIC   |   THINGS  TO  DOLIFESTYLE  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | T HURSDAY , OCTOB ER 31, 2013 | WWW. UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 7
@	
)8)45) 4%15*)4%03%-+1(
1%
>9:>,
1%
1)9534-16
-<)>9:>,-//-*57(
",-/)9-()/;%8%-/%&/)126%//342+4%05%4)%8%-/%&/)-1%///2'%6-21524-1&26,21/-1)%1(21'%0375*240%65/)%5)',)'.
9-6,%!1-8)45-6;142//0)16(8-524 ,)!1-8)45-6;5)164%/(0-1-564%6-21-5/2'%6)(%6	"2716%-1,)%(.9;
 )03)$		1/-1)%0375
/922(6,2)1-:$

?	
!1-8)45-6;2*,2)1-:1'//4-+,654)5)48)(=@		


	
#27'%16+)66,)'2745)5
;271))(%6;2742915',22/


 %.)274521/-1) 4%15*)46,)'4)(-65
4%(7%6)216-0)
CONED-02445_Snuggie_SizeD_4.917x8_r4.indd   1 10/8/13   3:33 PMWORLD TOUR
FLAVORS OF 
EAST AFRICABY ERIN FUKUSHIMA CONTRIBUTING WRIT ER
As a UCSD student, you and your 
friends have probably tried 
all the Korean BBQ spots on 
Convoy and every notable Mexican 
restaurant in the city. So maybe this 
weekend it’s time to try something 
new. As one of the few African res -
taurants in San Diego, and the only 
restaurant with Kenyan food, Flavors 
of East Africa is sure to win over all 
who walk through the door.   
Originally a booth at San Diego 
farmer’s markets, Flavors of East 
Africa opened its University Heights 
doors two years ago. Owner Juen 
Owino uses traditional family recipes 
to serve Kenyan dishes that appeal to 
carnivores and vegetarians alike. 
On Sunday night, the restaurant 
was pretty quiet, and only a scream -
ing baby a few tables away interrupt -
ed the rhythmic African music play -
ing in the background. Tapestries and handcrafted art line the walls, 
and a small statue of a camel served 
as an end piece at the table. The staff 
was welcoming and friendly, if on 
the quieter side.
To start, order a traditional 
African coffee or tea. The Kahawa 
(African coffee) is bitter, yet strong, 
and the passion fruit tea is sweet and 
refreshing. The chai tea can be a bit 
bland, so ask for it spicy to give it 
more flavor ($2 to $3 each).
If you’re the indecisive type when 
it comes to ordering, order the sam -
busas — you’ll get six, one of each 
flavor, for $4.99. They’re crisp and 
flaky and pair well with the tama -
rind sauce; the spicy lentil, potato 
and spinach are great for vegetari -
ans, while the spicy beef and chicken 
options are safe, yet still moist and 
flavorful. The cream cheese sam -
busa with coconut and pineapple is surprisingly sweet by comparison, 
but it’s worth a try with the set of six 
or as a separate dessert. The Bhajia 
sliced potatoes ($4.99), deep-fried 
in lentil batter and served with a 
creamy dipping sauce, are basically 
glorified french fries. Skip them in 
favor of the sambusas, or spend an 
extra buck and get the Jungle Fries 
($5.99), which are topped with meat, 
cheese and salsa — an African-San 
Diegan hybrid reminiscent of carne 
asada fries.  
While the main dinner courses are 
pricey, they’re served in hearty por -
tions with a vegetable and a carb-filled 
“staple” dish, like rice or flatbread. 
Mbuzi Choma ($15.99), goat meat 
with Kachumbari (African salsa) and 
pilipili (chili pepper) was an interest -
ing alternative to the beef and chicken 
dishes. While it was a little gamey, the 
meat was tender and paired well with the salsa, which is a high-medium 
on the spicy scale. Athola, partially 
grilled beef with chili pepper, onion, 
garlic and tomatoes ($16.99) is a more 
conservative option for hesitant din -
ers. Order the beef stew ($12.99) if 
you’re not ready to fully immerse 
yourself in Kenyan cooking. 
Meat dishes aside, Flavors of East 
Africa has a hefty set of vegetar -
ian-vegan menu options; a veggie-
vegan dinner ($10.99) comes with 
two vegetables and one “staple. ” The 
Dengu (lentil curry in coconut milk) 
isn’t too creamy, and the Biringanya 
(chopped eggplants in tomato sauce) 
is cooked with complementary spices. 
For staples, don’t miss the Chapati, 
an African flatbread that’s an inter -
esting mix between a tortilla and 
Indian naan. Another winner is the 
Matoke, mashed plantains that are 
at once sweet and savory. If you’re a fan of eggplant, be sure to order the 
Biringanya.
If you’re not too full from your 
entree, try the vegan-friendly Mandizi 
($4.99), fried plantains or the 
Mandazi, African doughnuts ($1.50). 
Both options are perfect for a little bit 
of a sugar high to sustain you on your 
drive back to La Jolla or as a pick-
me-up before a night of North Park 
adventures.     
At first glance, the Flavors of East 
Africa menu is intimidating, but stay 
away from the safe choices and try 
something new. Traditional Kenyan 
food may be unfamiliar to your taste 
buds, but it’s high time that you break 
from Friday night tacos and boba 
and check out flavors of a different 
continent.
readers  can  contact
ERIN   F UKUSHIM A     EFukushi@ucsd.edu  
Hours Monday through Sunday 
11 a.m. to 10 p.m.
Location  2322 El Cajon Blvd.
San Diego, CA 92104
Recommended AtholaILLUSTRATION BY JENNY PARK8     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | T HURSDAY , OCTOB ER 31, 2013 | WWW. UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG A&E
Drift Into 
Walker’s 
Blocks of  
Sound
ren  ebel  rebel@ucsd.eduthe  Haunted  t ape  deck
The great artist Scott Walker 
hunches forward in his chair, 
the bill of his plain black base -
ball cap pulled down across his face 
so that it shrouds his eyes totally. 
The percussionist on the other side 
of the soundproof glass steps toward 
the microphone and the click track 
starts in on his headphones. Walker 
leans in a bit more, as the conductor 
— a pale, bearded man in an unfor -
giving teal turtleneck — bounces his 
baton in time to the hypnotic 4/4 
ticking. The percussionist clenches 
his fists. A second “and four” and 
the conductor raises his bushy brows 
at the percussionist, signaling him. 
Now, a flick of the baton and the 
familiar sound of flesh on flesh as 
the percussionist throws sporadic 
sixteenth-note punches at what 
appears to be the ribs and midsec -
tion of a freshly slaughtered cow.
Not a minute into the take and 
it’s all wrong for Walker. 
“Stop it, ” he says mildly to the 
sound technician, and playback 
is promptly cut. Walker proceeds 
to explain to the percussionist, in 
detail, the lyrical art of the barefisted 
meat whack. 
For as many forms of art that 
offer lucrative avenues for terror-
induced catharsis, music seems to 
be a strange exception. Strange pri -
marily due to its unmatched poten -
tial to evoke wild, hallucinatory 
images for listeners based almost 
entirely on their own subconscious 
and memory. Walker, however, is 
undoubtedly an exception to this 
exception. And what better time 
of the year than Halloween to dive 
head first into the most frightening 
lower chambers of a master artist’s 
nightmare-stained psyche?
If Walker’s string of eponymous 
albums, “Scott 1–4, ” are more 
effortlessly cool and suavely operat -
ic than anything else released in the 
1960s (and you’ d best believe they 
are), his 2006 colossus “The Drift” 
is bleaker and more monolithic 
than what any modern death metal 
or doom metal pyrotechnics have 
to offer. Walker is a master lyricist, 
and on “The Drift, ” his unrelenting 
poetry is always at the unsettling 
center of the mix. He croons and 
whispers wild descriptions of Elvis’s 
stillborn twin brother or the execu -
tion of Benito Mussolini and his 
mistress Clara Petacci — their limp 
bodies dangling in the nighttime 
air. But with Walker it’s always a 
puzzle, and these frightening sto -
ries are always steeped heavily in 
abstraction. The latter account on 
12-minute gothic opus “Clara” is a 
modest example:
“This is not a cornhusk doll / 
Dipped in blood in the moonlight / 
Like what happen in America. ”
The instrumentation, which 
Walker has referred to as “blocks 
of sound” rather than traditional 
stacked arrangement, also follows a 
dream logic. “The Drift” falls some -
where between musique concrete 
haunted house and surreal book 
on tape, and aside from the afore -
mentioned meat-punching, Walker 
employs large string and brass 
ensembles, Asian wind instruments 
and electronically manipulated 
sound. But rarely do his sound -
scapes ever match the familiar and 
sweeping orchestral numbers of his 
‘60s masterpieces. Here, those clas -
sical conceptions of songwriting are 
abandoned almost entirely, and we 
are left with the stripped-down and 
blackened core of a troubled artist 
nearing the end of his prolific life.Atlas Genius began in Adelaide, 
South Australia as the project 
of brothers Keith, Michael and 
Steven Jeffery, along with their friend 
Darren Sell. They had modest hopes 
for the band, and no one was more 
surprised than they were when the 
song “Trojans” became a hit in Sept. 
2011. Now the band is on its U.S. tour 
and living the dream of humble musi -
cians everywhere. The band plans to 
tour until Christmas, making a stop at 
the San Diego House of Blues on Nov. 
3 along the way and then return to the 
studio to begin work on a new album.
Guardian:  Y ou built your own studio 
back in 2009 when you first formed 
the band. What was the motivation 
behind taking this extra step — 
[something] that most bands don’t 
bother to do?
Keith Jeffery: We wanted to spend 
months and months on end writing 
and recording. When we’re work -
ing on songs […] it’s really that we’re experimenting, and we’re writing as 
we’re recording the song. I find that 
it’s just as important that some of the 
right sounds are found — if we were 
to rent a studio, we might only get one 
song done if we were writing as we 
were [recording]. 
G: At the time when “Trojans” 
became a hit, you guys were all 
attending your fall semester [at the 
University of South Australia]. Was 
it hard to decide to leave school and 
pursue the music?
KJ: It wasn’t hard to decide to post -
pone. What was hard, though, was 
timing. “Trojans” started to get a lot 
of attention right during exam peri -
od. We said to ourselves, “We have to 
focus on these exams, because it was 
too late to back out […] but those 
[college] careers were Plan B. Music 
has always been our passion, and it 
was what we were excited about.
G: “Trojans” was released in May 2011, but [it] became a worldwide 
hit that fall. Did the sudden atten -
tion and popularity take you by 
surprise?
KJ: Definitely. I think we had very, 
very humble aspirations for the 
band. It was like, “Let’s put some 
songs out. [We’ll] probably have a 
humble band at some point, [and] 
we can have our own show. ” And 
it went from that kind of thought 
to our songs being played all over 
America. We counted 45,000 copies 
of [“Trojans”] before we even signed 
the record deal [with Warner Bros. 
Records]. We were very much sur -
prised […] We spent absolutely no 
time marketing it [...] and that was 
always our goal: to not spend any 
time telling people why they should 
listen to the music. [It’s] not about 
getting the music into the hands of 
the right people; it’s about getting 
the right music out there. And that 
really sells itself. Y ou know there’s so 
much music out there that you’re not going to stand out unless you really 
focus on the song. So [the people 
liking our music] was vindication for 
us and for all that hard work.
G: How does the band go from the 
inspiration of a song to the record -
ing?
KJ: The creative process is always a 
mysterious feeling to have. Because 
[with] some songs, you look back, 
and you don’t quite know how it 
goes to this point in the song … It 
could be something super simple, 
like a particular synthesizer on a 
particular day — that synthesizer 
strikes a part of your brain that 
really turns you, and you follow 
that and see what you can do with 
it. And you just don’t know how it’s 
going to happen [...] you can’t get 
attached. It’s about serving the song.
—     Raquel Calderon
         staff  writer
FAQKEITH JEFFERY 
OF ATLAS GENIUSFew Tritons seem to know that the founding members of rock 
band Switchfoot grew up going to concerts at Che Cafe, attend -
ing classes at UCSD and teaching surf classes with the Rec 
Center. That was 15 years ago, though, and since then, Switchfoot has 
seen a long and successful rock career. Though the band’s musical 
style has long been typical of 2000s alt rock, its new EP and upcom -
ing album (both called “Fading West”) are taking a step in another 
direction. This evolution took place as the result of recent experienc -
es, which were documented in a new two-hour documentary, titled 
“Fading West” as well.
The film “Fading West” is being shown at the openings of 
Switchfoot’s performances, and it documents the band’s adventures in 
Oceania while on tour. The members of Switchfoot are lifelong surf -
ers, and in addition to music, much of the film focuses on riding gor -
geous surf breaks in less-traveled parts of the world in an “Endless 
Summer” sort of way. However, due to a family emergency, the film 
also ended up exploring the close ties between the band members.
“Well, we set out to go around the world chasing waves and chasing 
songs, and yet, I don’t think that we anticipated how personal the movie 
would get, ” drummer and co-founder Chad Butler said. “I think people 
will be surprised at how it’s more than just a surf film or a music docu -
mentary, but it’s a look inside our personal lives and our family lives 
and how we try to balance that with being in a rock band. ”
From listening to “Ba55” off of Switchfoot’s new EP , much of the 
densely layered rock guitar backgrounds are gone. The typical pop 
rock chord changes are replaced with a steady one-chord bass groove 
and textural percussive sound effects. This isn’t to say that the song 
plays like a dreamy raga though — in fact, Eastern-influenced sound 
paves the way for some intense lyrics (“I believe you’re the fire that 
can burn me clean” is just one example) and a buzzing guitar solo.
The songs all sound more stripped in their production, which 
Butler attributes to a different writing approach in their new music. 
“One thing we did intentionally was to hold off on electric guitars 
until the very end of the recording process and then building up the rhythm section with bass and drums and vocals, ”  Butler said. “I 
think that approach was like tying your hands behind your back and 
forcing you to create in a different style, and I think as an artist that’s 
what you’re always trying to do is to break out of your old habits and 
to find new ways to create. ”
The other two tracks on the EP are somewhat more conventional 
than “Ba55, ” implying that the full album in January will find a happy 
medium between the two styles. And despite the fact that this and 
other albums were heavily inspired by surfing, there are no traces of 
what a listener would normally identify as surf music.
“Well, I’ve never been a fan of surf music to be honest. For us, surf -
ing is more in our blood and music is a parallel to that, but I wouldn’t 
call our music ‘surf music, ’” Butler said. “It’s just that surfing and music 
go hand and hand with each other growing up in San Diego. ”
When Butler was still surfing at Blacks Beach, he was going to 
class at UCSD and studying biology, while Switchfoot’s early days 
were just a side project.
“While I was at UCSD I think I was hesitant to lean all the way into 
music even though I loved it so much, ” Butler said. “I think I felt torn 
between a responsibility to a more traditional career choice with my bio 
major, and yet I ended up a professional musician. Looking back at it, 
I wish I would have followed my passion for music a little bit more and 
taken advantage of the incredible music department there. So if I had to 
do it all over again, I would have been a music major. ”
Switchfoot is going to be playing a show on Nov. 5 at Balboa 
Theater, which is going to feature their film and new EP as well 
as some of their older songs. Though many have heard “Meant to 
Live” and “Dare You To Move” on the radio, the film still hasn’t been 
released commercially, and concertgoers will be among the first to 
see it since its debut a month ago. It’s hard to know what to expect 
from an international hit band that started off writing a song com -
plaining how boring they found Chem 6A.
PLAYING SWITCHFOOT
San Diego-based rock band founded by UCSD alumni 
discusses its new EP and accompanying ﬁlm.
BY   ky l e   s o m e rs   staff  writer
Readers can contact Kyle Somers at ksomers@ucsd.edu.WEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | T HURSDAY , OCTOB ER 31, 2013 | WWW. UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 9
The Burn 
of Plastic 
V odka and 
Cheap Beer
The clock had just ticked past 
midnight, and I was still (unsuc -
cessfully) uncorking my sister’s 
only bottle of Moscato D’ Asti (which, 
I immediately learned, I would drink 
over hard liquor any day). In a panic 
and a rush of trying to get some sort 
of celebration going, I broke the top 
of the cork off, shoved the bottom 
in the bottle and let the sparkling $7 
wine flow. I rang in 2012 with the 
most glorious first hangover I could 
ever have had and a lot of sleep. That 
was my first brush with alcohol, and 
it wouldn’t be the last (I am indebted 
to the drinking gods that hangovers 
don’t last forever).
College is, in my opinion, inexo -
rably tied to drinking. It gives you 
an excuse to drink on just about any 
occasion, whether it’s Moonshine 
Monday, Turnt-Up Tuesday, Box 
Wine Wednesday, Thirsty Thursday, 
Fucked Up Friday, Schmammered 
Saturday or your classic Sunday 
brunch accompanied with bottom -
less Mimosas. I may have made up 
nearly all of these fun alliterations, but 
you get the idea. It’s the culture we’re 
surrounded with, and it should be 
accepted. But this doesn’t go without 
saying that you have to be part of it. 
I concede that many of the memo -
rable experiences I mentioned in my 
previous column were in fact due to 
successful inebriation. It is definitely 
worth the effort to attend your fair 
share of parties, if that’s what you’re 
looking for. Take a walk through 
I-House, hit up The Village if you 
have some connections or just go to 
SDSU if you’re looking for something 
different. Do it all because I’m a firm 
believer in #yolo.
But, partying shouldn’t be 
the defining trend of your fresh -
man year or something you do 
just because everyone else does it. 
Partying shouldn’t be the only way 
for you to meet people and the 
only way you can talk to strang -
ers because you gain “confidence” 
as you drink more. Alcohol is 
undoubtedly a social lubricant, but 
don’t depend on it. And going to 
parties definitely shouldn’t be your 
only version of fun on a weekend.
Maybe it’s because I’m not an 
absolute bombshell with perfect 
hair and an alluring smile (I do 
have slightly better-than-average 
skin), but I didn’t go to a ridiculous 
amount of parties my freshman 
year. Several nights were spent 
settling Catan (you’re welcome to 
join me) or shooting the moon in a 
heated game of Hearts. Or, Friday 
nights were spent between the 
sheets (ha) of textbooks and books 
about Margaret Thatcher. Maybe, 
on a few occasions, if my friends 
and I could get our hands on some 
bootleg liquor (plastic handles, of 
course, because we’re poor), we’ d 
have a kickback. Even then, we 
would drink very comfortably and 
in good company.
Y ou’ll find things to do, trust me. 
Y ou’ll meet amazing people in the 
least likely places, and it won’t have to 
be at a sweaty, humid party. And with 
all of this, you’ll still have fun with 
genuine people, building real relation -
ships. I do acknowledge all of this can 
happen in a party setting, and I’m sure 
it does. I just wanted to point out that 
you define fun in your own way, and 
it shouldn’t be imposed upon you in 
the forms of peer pressure or lack bet -
ter things to do.
But what do I know? It’s 
Halloween, go get all forms of drunk 
with that person dressed up as Jesus 
— I heard he forgives.What the U.S. history books 
never told you, “12 Y ears 
a Slave” will show you. 
The third feature film from British 
director Steve McQueen (“Hunger, ” 
“Shame”) has already been dubbed 
a frontrunner for Best Picture by 
enthusiastic critics. The screenplay, 
adapted by John Ridley (“U Turn, ” 
“Three Kings”), is based on the 1853 
autobiography of Solomon Northup, 
“Twelve Y ears a Slave, ” which recounts 
his experience as a free black man 
living with his family in New Y ork 
before he is suddenly is forced into 
slavery. The film is an immersive 
depiction of the institution of slavery, 
the dehumanization of human beings 
and the diseased social order that has 
plagued the American collective con -
science for centuries.
Northup, portrayed by British 
actor Chiwetel Ejiofor (“ American 
Gangster, ” “Children of Men”), whose 
dignified and refined manner truly 
anchors the film, is living in Saratoga 
Springs with his wife and two chil -
dren in 1841. A wonderfully talented 
musician, he is respected by his peers, 
moves along gracefully in society 
and is a proud family man. In a Fox 
Searchlight interview, McQueen 
explained his choice of this particu -
lar characterization, stating that he 
“wanted [Northup] to be everyone in 
the audience. ” 
One night, however, he is lured 
under false business pretenses, 
drugged and kidnapped. He wakes 
up in a dark dungeon, chained and 
beaten, and is transported from New 
Y ork to the southern states. Eventually 
ending up in Louisiana, Northup 
spends the following dozen years with 
three different slave owners, each of 
them exercising their particular form 
of sadistic abuse. With the incredible 
depth of his soul and his unbreakable 
spirit, Northup struggles to survive 
his enslavement with his mind intact. 
Upon witnessing the deteriorating 
mental (and physical) states of the 
other slaves, he unwaveringly pro -
claims, “I don’t want to survive — I 
want to live. ” Ejiofor gives a brilliant 
performance and will likely be a Best 
Actor contender.
The film has garnered attention 
not because of the subject matter, but because of how the subject mat -
ter is approached. McQueen is able 
to maintain an unwavering, almost 
fearless, gaze at scenes of horrifying 
cruelty and heartbreaking injustice, 
where the human spirit is compro -
mised to the utmost extent. As evi -
denced by his previous films, which 
include 2008’s “Hunger” about the 
1981 Irish hunger strike and 2011’s 
“Shame” about a man tormented 
by his sexual addiction, there is no 
denying the fact that McQueen has 
an extraordinary eye for striking 
composition. Like his past works, 
“12 Y ears a Slave” features exag -
geratedly long shots that bring an 
almost unbearable intensity. After 
one particularly brutal punishment, 
Northup is left hanging from a 
tree with a noose around his neck, 
wheezing and trying to maintain 
his balance with one foot just barely 
touching the muddy ground. In 
a limbo between life and death, 
McQueen once again demonstrates 
his mastery over the painfully lin -
gering shot. Also notable are the 
dramatic close-ups: Whether it is the 
wild eyes of the malevolent alcoholic 
Edwin Epps (Michael Fassbender), 
or the constant melancholy in 
Northup’s expression, the cast is 
photographed so that their emotion 
becomes palpable. 
Cinematographer Sean Bobbitt, 
who worked with McQueen on both 
“Hunger” and “Shame, ” captures the 
softness of the golden afternoon sun 
through the large willow trees sur -
rounding the plantations. If only for a 
moment, the audience is able to forget 
the horror that takes place on those 
properties. Furthermore, the sound 
evokes the era of “Uncle Tom’s Cabin” 
with solemn harmonies of call-and-
response work songs, the wind blow -
ing through the Spanish moss-clad 
oak trees and the bone-chilling sound 
of a whip colliding with human flesh.
It is curious to think that, although 
slavery in the U.S. lasted for centu -
ries, relatively few images of it are 
accessible to the public. Sure, there’s 
the calculated Hollywood biopic 
“Lincoln” and the aggressive Tarantino 
theatricality of  “Django Unchained. ” 
However, what sets “12 Y ears a Slave” 
apart is a sober and artful portrayal not usually present in films dealing 
with slavery. It is not just a great film 
but a necessary one. Our greatest chal -
lenge thus remains — to tell the truth. 
This is what McQueen has achieved 
with this film. We don’t have to justify 
the subject matter — we just have to understand it. Although “12 Y ears a 
Slave” is difficult to watch, try to not 
look away. 
—     em i l y  ben d er
         contributing  WriterDirected by  Steve McQueen
Starring  Chiwetel Ejiofor, Michael Fassbender, Brad Pitt
Rated R
Release Date Nov. 112  years  a  sla ve
The potential Oscar contender offers vivid, brutal 
depictions of slavery in the 1850s. FILM   R EVI EW
Good things really do come in 
small packages, and nowhere 
is this more apparent than in 
Rosi Golan’s latest studio offering 
“Fortuna. ” The set of songs marks 
her first extended play, though the 
Israeli-born musician is no stranger 
to the studio, having released two 
full-length albums and received 
wide exposure in media. But for 
those who didn’t catch her music in 
a J.C. Penney ad campaign, the film 
“Dear John” or the many television 
shows that feature it, “Fortuna” 
makes for an excellent introduc -
tion to Golan’s delicate, whimsical 
music.
The opening track, “Your 
Forgiveness, ” flaunts the musician’s 
vocal range in new ways: Golan 
starts off the track with a short 
a cappella stanza before her belt 
resounds against a simple acoustic 
guitar riff in the chorus. The result 
is a bittersweet romantic ballad 
laced with the poetic imagery of 
its lyrics: “For now the tide is out, 
water still in the clouds, hanging so 
heavy it hurts. ” The melancholy fla -
vor of the EP continues with “Give 
Up the Ghost, ” a duet with Johnny 
McDaid. Strongly reminiscent of her past single “Think of Me, ” the 
quiet, gentle beauty of Golan and 
McDaid’s vocals complement each 
other alongside an acoustic back -
ground. “Oblivious clocks on the 
walls run, ‘cause time doesn’t owe 
us a thing, ” they sing in unison, 
turning the hackneyed breakup 
theme into a wistful work of art — 
a typical mark of Golan’s work.
In every track of “Fortuna, ” 
Golan couples sonic simplicity 
with literate lyrics, a formula she 
has used again and again but that 
succeeds in never feeling trite or 
tiresome. Instead, each song feels 
refreshingly new, and a certain 
complexity in each track can be 
found beyond the plainness on 
the surface. For Golan, staying in 
her musical comfort zone works, 
contradictory to what she sings in 
“Give Up the Ghost” — “It’s fortune 
that favors the brave ones. ” Her 
sweet and graceful charm allows 
Golan to stick with a tried-and-true 
path that never sounds stale. For 
that, listeners are quite fortunate.
—     jacqu eli n e  ki m
         A&E  editor"Fortuna" 
by   rosi  golan
Release Date Oct. 15
Singer-songwriter offers a treasure trove of tracks 
showcasing her quaint sound and folksy roots.ALB UM  R EVI EW
vincent  pham  vnp003 @ucsd.eduFreshmen   f aux  p as10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 31, 2013 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSClassifieds$
Gua rdian Classi/f_ieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT^^^\JZKN\HYKPHUVYNJSHZZPÄLKZClassifieds$
Gua rdian Classi/f_ieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT^^^\JZKN\HYKPHUVYNJSHZZPÄLKZELECTRONICS
tetris dx game -15.00 - Video Games, 
Nintendo $15.00. Listing ID: 73218203 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Polaroid 600 Instant Film Cameras! - $15 
- I have for sale Polaroid 600 Instant Film 
Cameras! These cameras are in excellent 
condition and work great. These are some 
of the best models ever made and are easy 
to use! Images are of the actual cameras. 
Price is $15.00 each. Listing ID: 73405354 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Omni XLT 127 Telescope - $400 - I’m selling 
the Omni XLT 127 Telescope. It’s nearly 
brand new. I’ve only put it together and 
was never able to use it. The retail price is 
$730. I’m selling it for $400. Let me know if 
you have any questions or are interested. 
Listing ID: 72874454 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Coby Tablet/3 Free Items - 350.00 - Sell 
Coby Tablet 2012 (looks Like New) For 
$350.00 And 3 Free Zoom 2000 Vhs , Dell 
Pc Without Hard Drive, And Digital Video 
Camera. If Interest To Buy It For $350.00 
Cash Only And Get 3 Free Zoom 2000 
Vhs (video System), Dell Pc Without Hard 
Drive, And Digital Video Camera (never 
Used New And Good Item For 14 Years). 
Listing ID: 73223302 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
JOBS
Video editor/Videographer - Seeking a 
young hard working videographer/editor 
to accompany music crew to sessions and 
events. Includes editing and uploading a 
variety of videos to all social media outlets. 
Must be hard working, great attitude, a self 
starter, music fan, and have the ability to 
preform on a high consistent level. Listing 
ID: 73400638 at ucsdguardian.org/classi -
fieds for more information
Event Planning Internship - Yvette Hart 
Events, a Los Angeles up and coming 
event planning firm is looking for an intern 
to support the owner/lead event planner 
in all areas of design, planning and coordi -
nation of events, esp. weddings. Our mis -
sion is to create stylish, fresh and sophisti -
cated events that express our clients ideas. 
This is a great opportunity to learn and 
receive hands-on experience within the 
event planning industry. This is an unpaid 
internship, may count for college credit, 
with potential to grow with the business. 
Listing ID: 73401670 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Web Design Internship - Power Brands is 
a leading beverage consulting firm that 
develops a beverage and marketing strat -
egy for new or existing beverage brands. 
We are currently searching for a part time 
web designer to help create/revamp new 
and already existing landing pages. Listing 
ID: 72861778 at ucsdguardian.org/classi -
fieds for more information
Music Intern! - Hi music lovers! I’m Melissa, 
and I’m seeking an intern for a 5 week 
internship, for at least 10 hours a week, 
who wants to learn how to reach out to 
artists around the world. Give me a call 
and let’s see if it’s something that you’d 
love to do! Hope to hear from you! Listing 
ID: 72861414 at ucsdguardian.org/classi -
fieds for more information
Complete the grid so
each row, column and
3-by-3 box (in bold
borders) contains
every digit, 1 to 9. For
strategies on how to
solve Sudoku, visit
www.sudoku.org.uk
SOLUTION TO
SATURDAY’S PUZZLE
Level:
1 2
3 4
© 2009 The Mepham Group. Distributed by
Tribune Media Services. All rights reserved.9/14/09Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies 
on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.ukLevel: 1234Level: 1234Level: 1234
Level: 1234Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
Level:
12
34Level:
12
34Level: 1234Level: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
PETS
Cyclura, Blue Rock Iguana - 379.00 - Cyclura 
babies for Sale, both parents Cyclura Lewisi 
hybrids aka Blue Rock Iguana. Babies are 1 
month old, looking for permanent home 
for them. Rock Iguanas are Pets For Life, 
will live 40+ years with proper care. Both 
parents are super tame. I have been taming 
babies as well. Email me if have questions. 
Listing ID: 73561668 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Tiny Tea Cup and Toy York - 500.00 - The 
best TEA CUP AND TOY YORKIE PUPPIES 
available: Beautiful, purebred, Yorkshire 
Terrier puppies. Different litters, differnt 
colors and sizes, all of them come with 
the “Certificate Of Health Guarantee” and 
their “Health Record” . Parents always on 
premises. Specializing in very tiny small 
to medium size Yorkie puppies. Listing ID: 
72171443 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Dolly the Dalmatian - 1295.00 - Dalmatian, 
Come on down and check out of gorgeous 
chocolate Dalmatian! She is a beauty and 
will be your workout partner for life. She 
is active and will keep you motivated. She 
is specially priced because she is 17 weeks 
old and we want her to find a home!!! 
This Puppy will come with: Registration 
with Pedigree and Up to Date Vaccinations. 
Listing ID: 71659932 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Beabull - 1495.00 - This handsome Beagle/
English Bulldog mix (beabull) is ready for 
his furever home. He is 16 weeks old and 
full of fun and love. Come by and tell us 
Graphic Design Service for Student Organizations!
Located in PC East, 3rd Floorasgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu
Contact Brianna, UCSD Airway Research Center
619-471-0822Subjects  aged  18-­65  with  current  asthma  
symptoms  to  grass  pollens  needed  for  study  
requiring  donation  of  blood,  allergy  skin  
testing,  pulmonary  function  testing,  and  
completion  of  allergy  questionnaires.  Will  be  
reimbursed  $575  for  completion  of  5  clinic  
visit  study  over  a  2  year  period.UCSD  ASTHMA  BLOOD  
DONOR  STUDY:
you can resist him!! He is specially priced 
at $1495...$600.00 off of his regular price. 
Be his family today! This Puppy will come 
with: Up to Date Vaccinations, Dewormed, 
and Vet Checked. Listing ID: 71659927 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
FURNITURE
Under the Surface - 2600.00 - Hand made 
carved glass cocktail table. Outer Edges 
of table base, water jet cut. Perimeter of 
the table top, pencil polished. 42”dia. x 
18”ht. x 3/4”glass. 412 W. 7th Street San 
Pedro. borenstudio@yahoo.com. Listing 
ID: 73219052 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
Tropical Jungle Theme Table Lamps - $35 
- Closing out storage unit. these 2 lamps 
were used to decorate a model home in 
the tropical jungle theme. Near new. work 
great. call Jackie at or text to. $35/both 
one for $20 stand 24-inches tall from base 
to top. Listing ID: 73488166 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
Must Sell Vintage Wood Hutch - $100 
- VINTAGE WOOD HUTCH glass 
shelves,suede inserts on lower 
doors,silverware drawer and light in upper 
$100. Listing ID: 73488160 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
Hammock hanging chair - $38 – Rarely 
used. Buy it and enjoy it. Listing ID: 
73488159 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more informationSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | T HURSDAY , OCTOB ER 31, 2013 | WWW. UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 11
.com/ucsdguardiancancer, ” women’s crew coach Colin 
Truex said.
Both the Triton men and women 
posted strong performances at last 
Saturday’s meet.
The Triton men performed par -
ticularly well, as UCSD’s B team 
took first place in the Men’s Open 
Eight (11:19), while UCSD’s A 
team earned first place in the Men’s 
Collegiate Freshman Eight with a 
time of 11:41.  
On the women’s side, UCSD’s 
B team finished in fourth place 
(13:52) in the Women’s Open Eight 
event. UCSD’s A team finished only 
a second behind (13:53), taking fifth place, while the C team placed sev -
enth (14:56). 
After a long summer, Truex notes 
that this unofficial season opener 
indicates little for the coming year. 
“It was more about just shaking 
off some of the cobwebs and going 
out and rowing hard, ” Truex said. 
Regardless, the coach felt it was 
a good start. “It’s early, but they’ve 
worked hard and they’ve rowed 
well. ”
After the races were finished, 
breast cancer survivors from the 
community handed out the medals 
to rowing participants.
“It’s really inspiring to see people 
who have overcome and struggled 
through so much be so happy to attend and participate, ” senior cap -
tain Olivia Knizek said.
While the Row for the Cure pro -
vided for an eventful season opener 
for the Tritons in their home port, 
the UCSD women’s crew squad sets 
its sights on its upcoming schedule. 
“There’s good fundamentals that 
we can build on, and there’s good 
fitness, ” Truex said.  “We have the 
right mindset to go forward. ” 
The Tritons will continue their 
season on Nov. 3, as they travel to 
Newport Beach for the Newport 
Autumn Rowing Festival. The com -
petition will begin at 6 a.m.before the game; we said we’ve got 
three games left and every one is a 
championship game, ” McManus said. 
“So that’s the first championship game, 
then we’ve got two to go. ”
The Tritons head into the final 
weekend of the season just one point 
shy of a playoff berth.
“We said at the beginning of the 
year, let’s give ourselves a chance to go 
to the [conference tournament]. That’s 
all we’re looking for, and that’s what 
we’ve done, ” McManus said. “We’ve 
put ourselves into a position where it’s 
down to us to get into it. ”
UCSD travels to Cal Poly Pomona 
on Friday night, having tied the Broncos 2–2 just two weekends earlier. 
The regular season wraps up on Sunday 
at 2 p.m. with a matchup against Cal 
State Los Angeles, whom the Tritons 
defeated 3–1 in early September. If the 
Tritons can match their result against 
Cal State Los Angeles after Friday 
night’s games, the Sunday showdown 
at Triton Stadium between the two 
CCAA South Division foes becomes 
an elimination game for both teams.
“It’s a two-game season, ” Jessica 
Dang said. “We’re kind of playing with 
our lives on the line, we have to go on 
and that’s what we’re going to do. We’re 
going to win. ”Women’s Crew Team to Compete in Newport Rowing Festival
/uni25B6 CREW,  from page 12Tritons Need Two Wins Next Weekend
/uni25B6 WOMEN SOCCER,  from page 12
readers  can  contact
BRANDON YU     BCYU@ucsd.edu  readers  can  contact
DY LA N  T H O M PS O N     DTHOmP@ucsd.edu  
PHOTO  BY NHAN NGUY EN/GUARDIAN PHOTO  BY NOLAN THOMAS/GUARDIAN FILESPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
RACHEL  UDA
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | T HURSDAY , OCTOB ER 31, 2013 | WWW. UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 
Tritons Still in Play for PostseasonW OMEN 'S  SOCCER
With a 1-1 tie and 1-0 win last weekend, the women’s soccer 
team still remain in the hunt for a conference tournament spot. 
The UCSD women’s soccer team picked up a 
win and a tie last week—results good enough to 
keep the Tritons in postseason contention. 
 Last Friday, a 1–1 tie against a weaker San 
Francisco State team could have been the UCSD 
women’s soccer team’s undoing.
The following Sunday, the Tritons remained 
eligible for the four-team conference tournament 
by the late-game heroics of freshman Jessica 
Dang. The freshman’s second goal of the year 
prolonged the season for the Tritons, who defeat -
ed Cal State Monterey Bay 1–0 in a game that was 
close until the final whistle.
“I was just trying to get it in the goal, ” Dang 
said. “When I hit the ball, the contact, I knew it 
was going in. It was a nice feeling. ”Dang scored both Triton goals over the week -
end, netting the first of her career on a free kick 
in the first half against San Francisco State.
“We’ve been working really hard for the 
whole season and the results haven’t really been 
showing it, but I think today we really stepped 
up and we finished our opportunities when we 
had them, when it really mattered, ” Dang said 
after the win.
Head coach Brian McManus was happy with 
the weekend’s results but understands the situ -
ation that his team faces with just two games 
remaining.
“Its been a hard season, but we talked today BY   DY L A N   T H O M P S O N   CONTRIBUTING  WRITERCrew Opens Year at Mission BayCREW
The UCSD men’s and women’s crew teams kicked off the 
2013-2014 season at the Susan G. Kohman Row for the Cure.
The UCSD fall crew season opened at 
Mission Bay in San Diego this past Sunday. 
The Tritons faced off against teams coming 
from Orange Coast College, University of San 
Diego, San Diego State and UCLA.
Held in partnership with Susan G. Komen 
Foundation, the contest raised between 
$13,000 and $15,000 to be donated to breast 
cancer patients and research.
The event, which was not limited to col -
legiate athletes, drew over 600 participants 
who all helped in making this year’s fundrais -
ing effort the biggest to date. Races extended 
beyond crew and featured kayaks, outriggers, 
stand up paddleboards and surf skis. 
“It’s really nice to know that our team can partner with other rowing teams to help sup -
port the Susan G. Komen foundation, ” junior 
captain Kelly Petersen said. 
Going over a decade strong, Row for the 
Cure has consistently expanded in size and 
donations each year. The money raised will 
serve both at a local and national level – 
the majority will go towards uninsured San 
Diego women with breast cancer while the 
residual funds will contribute to breast cancer 
research. 
“[The race] does carry more meaning, 
particularly for some of the athletes who 
have known somebody who has had breast BY   B R A N D O N  Y U  STAFF  WRITER
See CREW , page 11 See WOMEN’S SOCCER , page 11
Conference Overall
sonoma  st a te
cal  st a te  
monterey  ba yGP PTS Records Win % GF GA GP Records Win % GF GA
14
1424
237-4-3
7-5-20.607
0.57117
2716
2416
168-4-4
9-5-20.625
0.62519
3117
25Streak Last  10
4-3-3
5-4-1won    3
lost  1
Conference Overall
*Chico  St a te
*UCSD
*tcAL ST A TE  L.A.GP PTS Records Win % GF GA GP Records Win % GF GA
14
14
1432
32
3110-2-2
10-2-2
9-1-40.786
0.786
0.78621
17
188
6
716
16
1612-2-2
12-2-2
11-1-40.812
0.812
0.81224
22
278
7
8Streak Last  10
7-1-2
8-1-1
7-0-3Tied  1
won    3
Tied  1
With the help of two come-from-behind goals by midfielder 
Andisheh Bagheri last Sunday, the UCSD men’s soccer team 
has clinched a conference tournament berth for the first 
time since 2005.
The second-seeded Tritons join first-ranked Chico State and 
third-ranked Cal State Los Angeles in the California Collegiate 
Athletic Association Tournament to be held at Cal State Stanislaus 
from Nov. 8 to Nov. 9. The fourth seat will go to either Sonoma 
State or Cal State Monterey Bay depending on the outcome of this 
weekend’s games.
 “I’m really happy, but we expected to be going to the postseason. 
Obviously it’s super exciting, and it’s the first time that I’ve been, ”  
senior captain Alec Arsht said. “But we want the first seed, too. We 
want to win the South, but we have a couple more games. ”
Bagheri — who has scored six game-winning goals so far this 
season — was again the hero against San Francisco State and Cal 
State Monterey Bay.
On Friday, the Tritons dealt San Francisco State its eighth straight 
loss. In the 49th minute, senior midfielder Will Pleskow found 
senior Cory Wolfrom inside the 16-yard box, who drilled the ball 
into the bottom-left corner.
Bagheri scored a rocket from 18 yards out in the 65th minute to 
seal the win despite a late Gator goal.
Two days later, back on their home field, the Tritons punched 
their ticket to the CCAA Championships with a win against CCAA 
North Division leader Cal State Monterey Bay.
UCSD played most of the game with a 1-0 deficit, after Monterey 
Bay’s Servando Perez scored his ninth goal of the season off a header lofted over senior goalkeeper Josh Cohen. 
Regrouping during halftime, the Tritons spent the majority of the 
second period on Monterey Bay’s half, outshooting the Otters 11-2.
UCSD inched closer to frame throughout the half, playing 
through forward Alessandro Canale — marked closely by Monterey 
defender Saydou Kamara. Canale snaked his way around the 16-yard 
box, creating opportunities, which eventually paid off in the 81st 
minute, when the Tritons were granted a free kick collected by 
Canale.
Canale dribbled the flank to find Bagheri, who finished the 
equalizer.
Just over one minute later, Canale connected with Bagheri again, 
sending a back-pass that Bagheri buried in the back of the net.
“Bagheri’s a huge piece of what we do, ” UCSD head coach Jon 
Pascale said. “He is definitely one of the best players in the league, he 
has been for some time. It’s great to see him score goals. ”
The Tritons have two more games left in the regular season. On 
Friday, UCSD will face Cal Poly Pomona on the road. The following 
Sunday, the Tritons will return to RIMAC Field to play CCAA South 
Division rivals Cal State Los Angeles, where UCSD will honor its 
nine seniors.
But with a tournament ticket in hand, Pascale said his Tritons 
aren’t ready to let up off the gas this coming weekend.
“It’s our mentality and culture that win, lose or draw [today], we 
would be preparing for two wins next weekend. So it’s two more 
opportunities to get better and two more opportunities to establish 
ourselves in the conference. ”
Readers can contact Rachel Uda at ruda@ucsd.eduGreat After  8The UCSD men’s soccer team has clinched 
a CCAA tournmanet berth for the ﬁrst time in 
eight seasons. Postseason play to begin Nov. 8.
BY RACHEL UDA SPORTS EDITOR
PHOTOS  BY NHAN NGUY EN/GUARDIAN FILENORTH DIVISION SOUTH DIVISION
*Chico State, UCSD and Cal State Los Angeles have all clinched CCAA Tournament berths. Sonoma State and Cal State 
Monterey Bay will battle for the last spot.