Students Saving the Crafts 
Center — formed to raise aware -
ness of the potential shutting down 
of the UCSD Crafts Center — and 
Crafts Center Community are seek -
ing alternative means of fundraising 
that may include donor contribu -
tions after the University Centers 
referendum failed to pass in April.
The University Center Advisory 
Board temporarily closed the Crafts 
Center before Fall Quarter 2012, cit -
ing issues about funding and facil -
ity maintenance. UCAB introduced 
a fee referendum in conjunction 
with A.S. Council and the Graduate 
Student Association that would use 
a portion of the funds to reopen the 
Crafts Center. The $11 student fee 
increase failed to pass during spring 
elections, prohibiting funding for 
needed maintenance.
Among the alternatives to fund 
the Crafts Center’s maintenance and 
reopening costs is a student-run 
fundraiser supported by alumni and 
donor contributions. However, the 
student groups proposing this plan 
were not permitted to continue until 
fully recognized as an official fund -
raising entity.  
Marina Garrett, a fifth year grad -
uate student, represented the Crafts 
Center in presentations to A.S. 
Council and GSA and now hopes 
that the center can be transitioned 
into a profitable business model.
“Given that there is massive stu -
dent and community support for the 
idea that the Crafts Center is a valu -
able resource to the UCSD commu -
nity, and that a dedicated group of 
individuals exists who are ready and 
willing to raise funds for the project 
and work to ensure its future suc -
cess, it is unclear why the University 
has not allowed us to move forward 
with the project, ” Garrett said.
According to Sharon Van Bruggen, 
assistant director of University 
Centers at UCSD, the closure of the 
Crafts Center was made in context of 
an overall budget decision, and based 
in part on low student participation. 
“The Crafts Center costs $594,000 
per year to run with revenue of 
only $377,000, ” Van Bruggen said. 
“Overall, less than 600 students use 
the Crafts Center every year. Our big -
gest challenge now is trying to decide 
how to operate and provide the same 
services on a smaller budget. ”
Garrett believes that the Crafts 
Center provides an outlet for UCSD 
students.
“It was the best thing I’ve ever UCSD experienced a power 
outage that affected Eleanor 
Roosevelt College and Thurgood 
Marshall College in the early hours 
of June 2. Students reported losing power and Internet connection at 
around 3:30 a.m. in the Village and 
throughout Marshall.
According to the university’s 
sustainability website, the campus 
relies on a natural gas system for 85 
percent of its annual electrical usage. 
The campus remains connected to 
San Diego Gas & Electric through three feeders that channel power to 
the East Campus Switching Station. 
There are no reports yet on what may 
have caused the outage.
Another power outage occurred 
last year during Memorial Day 
weekend, when a transformer caught 
fire and caused a campus-wide 
blackout that also affected the Scripps Institution of Oceanography and 
Thornton Hospital. UCSD remained 
without power for a full day and paid 
$350,000 to restore the power station 
and its contents, according to a May 
29, 2012 issue of the Guardian.
POKEMON  IN  CHALK THE  "8"  TEAM WE  SEE  THE  FUTURE
snap  it  ucsd TRITONS   TA K E   THIR D  AT   NCAAS  and  it  does  not  look  good
fea tures , P age   7 sports,  P age  12 opinion,  P age   4VOLUME 46, ISSUE 59  MONDAY , JUNE 3, 2013  WWW. UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG
Road Work Ahead
The first of at least five projects that affect the UCSD campus will begin 
construction this fall and will go on for several years. 
West Campus Loses Power Early Sunday Morning 
BY  aleksan d ra  konst anti n ovi c    Associate  news  editor  CAM PUS
readers  can  contact
  alek sandra  konst antinovic     alkonsta@ucsd.edu  TRANS POR T A TION CAM PUS  LIFE
Students 
to Begin
Crafts Center 
Fundraising
After a failed UCEN 
referendum, supporters 
of the Crafts Center are 
looking for alternatives. 
BY   d a v i s   l i a n g    staff  writer
See CRAFT CENTER , page 3The San Diego Association of Governments and the 
California Department of Transportation will begin 
transportation demand management strategies and an 
educational outreach campaign this fall as part of the second 
phase in the $6.5 billion North Coast Corridor (NCC) trans -
portation and environmental protection program for San Diego.
The campaign follows a March 2013 release of the Public 
Works Plan/Transportation and Resource Enhancement 
Program — a blueprint of all improvements within the NCC, 
including the addition of a 27-mile bike trail spanning the entire 
North Coast Corridor and development of highway lanes and 
bridges and other projects aimed at creating efficient and reli -
able highway and transit enhancements.According to a meeting with Project Manager Arturo Jacobo, 
over 30 projects are currently under development within the 
NCC, including 14 rail and transit projects, 10 environmental 
and coastal access projects and eight highway projects.
Approximately eight projects are undergoing implemen -
tation in the Golden Triangle — a section of San Diego’s 
University City demarcated by Interstates 5, 52 and 805 — alone, 
with several of them directly affecting UCSD.
One of the biggest projects will be the Mid-Coast Corridor 
Transit Project, an 11-mile extension of the San Diego trolley 
service that was approved by SANDAG in 2010. The $1.7 bil -
See TRANSPORTATION , page 3
the  rundown
The interchange project will widen 
Genesee Avenue over I-5 and construct 
three miles of bicycle paths. 
Of the eight planned stops, two will be 
constructed within the UCSD campus.
A transit stop is proposed to be situated near 
the V A Medical Center, pending approval. 
A new paved path will connect the Campus 
Services Center with the Coaster station in 
Sorrento Valley.The Direct Access Ramp (DAR) is one of 
two aimed at increasing the efficiency of 
interstate access.
The proposed I-5 bridge will connect east 
campus’ Gilman Drive with the UCSD 
Medical Center’s Thorton Hospital. 
Extensions to the Light Rail Transit Blue 
Line include eight new trolley stops.Genesee a ve.  interchange
project
planned  light  rail  transit  
stops
proposed  light  rail  transit  
stopVoigt  direct  access  ramp
gilman/i-‐5  bridge
M id-‐coast  corridor  trolleybike/pedestrian  p a thB Y  mekala  neelakant an   news  editor       graphic  illustra tion   b y  amber  shroyerpepper  canyon
VA  medical  center       Voigt  Drive2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JUNE 3, 2013 | WWW. UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG NEW S
WEEKSALESALESPRING 201 3
50% OFF50% OFFSELECTEDITEMSSELECTEDITEMS
 LIBRARY WALK  10am-3pm  ALL WEEK 10  LIBRARY WALK  10am-3pm  ALL WEEK 10
#triton
MEAGER MOUSE By Rebekah Dyer
KN-­CO MICS By Khanh Nguyen
BRIEFS b y  mekala  neelakant an   News  editor
/uni25B6 Carl DeMaio Running for 
Congress : Former San Diego mayoral 
candidate and city councilman Carl 
DeMaio announced his congressional 
candidacy last Thursday against cur -
rent congressman Scott Peters.
“I see myself as a ‘new generation 
Republican’ who wants to challenge 
the party to focus on pocket-book, 
economic and quality of life issues 
in a more positive and inclusive way, 
rather than issues that are frankly 
none of the government’s business 
in the first place, ” DeMaio said in a 
campaign release.
According to an April Grand 
Old Party poll that surveyed voters 
in the 52nd congressional district, 
DeMaio leads Peters 49 percent to 
39 percent, with voters encouraged 
by DeMaio’s intent on fixing govern -
ment finances.
/uni25B6 Rape at Sun God: A rape was 
reported on May 17, 2013 in the 
Village East 1, according to the 
UCSD Police Department crime 
logs. The rape occurred between 
10:00 p.m. and 10:30 p.m., with a report taken by police at the scene 
— the police department cannot 
provide any more information at 
this time, as the incident is currently 
under investigation.
/uni25B6 Sunshine Market Reopens: 
Sunshine Market reopens today, 
after approximately two weeks of 
construction due to damage caused 
by a burst storage pipe on May 21. 
The market continued to offer select 
items for sale in an “express market” 
with temporary revised hours just 
outside of the area under construc -
tion and is expected to return to its 
normal hours following repairs to 
the damaged pipe. 
/uni25B6 Professor Wins Searle Scholar: 
UCSD bioengineering professor 
Christian Metallo received $300,000 
in research funding after being named 
a 2013 Searle Scholar and Hellman 
Faculty Fellow last week. Metallo was 
chosen as a Searle Scholar for his 
research regarding metabolism and 
oxygen availability, being one of 15 
researchers to be selected for the title.“The Hellman Faculty Fellowship 
is providing me with essential 
resources to initiate studies in 
this area as I build my laboratory, ” 
Metallo said. “These funds will have 
a lasting impact on my work given 
the early stage of my career, so I am 
grateful for the support and honored 
by the selection. ”
/uni25B6 8,085 Students Will Graduate in 
June:  UCSD’s 11 commencement 
ceremonies will begin June 14, 8,085 
graduating students. Commencement 
speakers will include come -
dian Lewis Black, San Diego City 
Councilmember Sherri Lightner, for -
mer UC President Richard Atkinson 
and former White House doctor 
Eleanor “Connie” Mariano.
“This is a very exciting and 
inspiring time as our graduates 
begin new chapters in their lives, ” 
Chancellor Pradeep K. Khosla said. 
“I am extremely proud of our new 
alumni for their hard work and 
achievements across multiple disci -
plines. ”
Commencement weekend will begin on Friday, June 14 with the sev -
enth annual All Campus Graduation 
Celebration.
CORRE CTION
In the May 30 issue of the 
Guardian, an article regarding the 
opening of the new lecture hall 
within Galbraith Hall incorrectly 
referred to a 2011-2012 social 
movement as “Occupy CLICS. ” 
The movement was actually 
known as the “Reclaim CLICS, ” 
movement.
The same story also referred to the 
contracted group who led rennova -
tion efforts as “Mortenson. ” The 
article should have listed the full 
name of the group as “Mortenson 
Construction. ”
The Guardian corrects all errors 
brought to the attention of the edi -
tors. Corrections can be sent to edi -
tor@ucsdguardian.org .The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and 
Thursdays during the academic year by UCSD  students 
and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this 
newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, 
without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2013, all 
rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible 
for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The 
views expressed herein do not necessarily represent 
the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of 
California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian 
is funded by advertising.  HUGG ING QUEEN HILARY.
General Editorial: 858-534-6580  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Managing; managing@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.orgBusiness Manager
Emily Ku 
Advertising Director  
Noelle Batema
Marketing  
Nicholas Paladino
Advertising Assistants  
Vivek Medepalli, Audrey Sechrest, Darren Shim
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Page Layout
 Amber Shroyer, Dorothy VanTraining and Development Manager
Madeline MannLaira Martin
Zev Hurwitz
Mekala Neelakantan
Aleksandra Konstantinovic
Hilary Lee
Lauren Koa
Rachel Uda
Stacey Chien
Jean Lee
Vincent Pham
Jacey Aldredge
Dieter Jourbet
Brian Monroe
Taylor Sanderson
Sara Shroyer
Zoë Mc Cracken
Jeffrey Lau
Janella Payumo
Allie Kiekhofer
Claire Yee
Arielle SallaiEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
News Editor
Associate News Editor
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
Associate Lifestyle Editors
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Web Editor
Editorial Assistants
Mozelle Armijo, Rachel Huang, Jacqueline Kim, 
Shelby Newallis, Kelvin Noronha
Copy Readers
Kim Brinckerhoff, Kate Galloway, Rachel Huang,                    
Jacqueline Kim NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JUNE 3, 2013 | WWW. UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 3
[done] at UCSD,” Marina said. 
“Glass blowing was a three-hour 
class, and it was a total stress reliev -
er. It was actually one of the things 
that made me stay in UCSD for grad 
school. ”
The Crafts Center’s website cur -
rently offers a How You Can Help page, where individuals can sign 
a Statement of Support to reopen 
the Crafts Center. Crafts Center 
Community also held a meeting 
on Saturday June 1, 2013 in the 
Social Sciences Building Room 101 
by Ridge Walk. 
“Students Saving the Crafts 
Center and the Crafts Center com -
munity will continue to work to convince the University that the 
Craft Center is not only a valuable 
asset, but that a permanent closure 
would be a huge loss to the campus 
community, ” Marina said. 
Additional reporting by 
Aleksandra Konstantinovic./uni25B6 CRAFT CENTER,  from page 1
readers  can  contact
da vis  liang     d1liang@ucsd.edu  +ZIN\[+MV\MZ0WXM[\W<ZIV[Q\QWV\WI8ZWÅ\IJTM*][QVM[[5WLMTlion project is receiving 50 percent of 
its funding from the TransNet local 
sales tax and 50 percent from the 
federal government — construction 
is expected to begin in 2015 with 
service anticipated to begin in 2018.
The projected trolley route 
will begin north of the Old Town 
Transit Center and continue east 
along Interstate 5 and Gilman 
Drive, crossing west of the interstate 
around UCSD’s Sixth College and 
east once again near the VA Medical 
Center and Voigt Drive, ending at 
the Westfield UTC.
Of the planned eight stations, 
three will be located within the 
UCSD campus, potential spots 
include Pepper Canyon Drive and 
Voigt Drive, as well as a stop at the 
VA Medical Center. 
Public outreach for the trol -
ley extension is still underway, with 
environmental documents available 
for review until July 16. In addi -
tion, SANDAG plans to host a pub -
lic meeting at UCSD regarding the 
project on June 10 from 3-6 p.m. in 
Price Center.
In addition to the trolley, UCSD 
will see the construction of two new 
bridges — a Direct Access Ramp 
at Voigt Drive and a bridge across 
Interstate 5 at Gilman Drive — within 
the next 10 years.The DAR is one of two access 
ramps being constructed as part of 
the CALTRANS I-5 Express Lanes 
Project that will create two Express 
Lanes in each direction for the 
interstate and access ramps that will 
directly connect the surface streets 
of Voigt Drive and Manchester 
Avenue to those lanes. The project 
will occur in three stages from 2013 
to 2040, with the Voigt DAR con -
structed by 2020.
The $17.5 million I-5/Gilman 
Drive Bridge project is currently 
in preliminary design, with a pro -
jected completion date of Spring 
2016. The bridge will occur in col -
laboration with UCSD Physical 
and Community Planning and 
CALTRANS — design and envi -
ronmental funding will be provided 
by the university, with construction 
funding to be determined.
The proposed bridge will cross 
over Interstate 5 between the current 
La Jolla Village Drive and Voigt bridg -
es, connecting the east and west sides 
of campus with a realigned Gilman 
Drive to Medical Center Drive con -
necting nearest to Thornton Hospital. 
The deck will contain one 11-foot 
wide lane each way, two five-foot 
wide bike paths, and a pedestrian 
walkway on the northern and south -
ern sides of the bridge.
According to UCSD Director of 
Physical and Community Planning Brad Werdick, ongoing construction 
will have little impact on campus 
circulation.
“These transportation proj -
ects will encourage use of alterna -
tive transportation, reduce parking 
demand, better connect [UCSD] with 
other areas of San Diego and improve 
access for students, staff, faculty, visi -
tors and the surrounding commu -
nity, ” Werdick said.
Additional projects within the 
NCC program include an extension 
of the Carroll Canyon Road and two 
new miles of HOV lanes — opening 
to traffic this year — a $587 million 
North Express Lanes project creat -
ing direct access ramps at Nobel 
Drive and Carroll Canyon Road 
and a $94 million Genesee Avenue 
Interchange Project — creating three 
miles of bicycle paths and widening 
freeway ramps.
Many projects will begin con -
struction this coming fall and are 
projected to complete in the next 
10 years.
Through the summer and until 
Fall 2013, CALTRANS and SANDAG 
will continue education marketing 
and outreach and complete their 
transportation demand strategies 
including public awareness cam -
paigns and regional programs./uni25B6 TRANSPORTATION,  from page 18ZWRMK\ML4QOP\:IQT:W]\M?QTT1VKT]LMI;\WXQV;Q`\P+WTTMOM
readers  can  contact
mekala  neelakant an     mneelaka@ucsd.edu  Friday, May 24
Unknown Time.: Vandalism
/uni25B6A glass door at Rita Atkinson 
Residences was shattered; the dam -
age was $500. Report taken.
9:35 a.m.: Citizen Contact
/uni25B6There was a suspicious per -
son at Blacks Beach gate with an 
unleashed dog. Information only.  
2:34 p.m.: Information
/uni25B6There was a possible theft of gaso -
line from a vehicle in Gilman Parking 
Structure. Information only.
Monday, May 27
1:36 a.m.: Noise Disturbance
/uni25B6It sounded like a power tool was 
being used outside of Rita Atkinson 
Residences. Unable to locate.
3:29 a.m.: Hazard Situation
/uni25B6At La Jolla Shores Drive there 
appeared to be a series of cones going 
in both directions, blocking traffic — 
possible prank. Information only.
1:06 p.m.: Reckless Driving
/uni25B6There was a report of a motor -
ist driving erratically around Geisel 
Library, appeared angry and upset. 
Unable to locate.
6:57 p.m.: Citizen Contact
/uni25B6Citizens had glass bottles on the 
Scripps Beach. Verbal warning issued.
Tuesday, May 28
12:17 a.m.: Welfare Check
/uni25B6The male subject was reclined in 
the driver seat of a vehicle while 
the engine was running in Pangea 
Parking Structure. Field interview.
12:00 p.m.: Citizen Contact
/uni25B6There was a complaint of a bicy -
cle possibly being tampered with. 
Information only.
5:20 p.m.: Animal Call
/uni25B6A dog at Rita Atkinson Residences 
was barking for over an hour. 
Information only.
6:46 p.m.: Welfare Check
/uni25B6There was a possible suicidal subject 
in the Revelle Apartments. Transported 
to County Mental Health Facility.7:22 p.m.: Injury
/uni25B6A young adult male fell down the 
stairs of Sixth College Residential 
Life. Transported to hospital by 
Community Service Officer.
10:12 p.m..: Noise Disturbance
/uni25B6People were screaming and laugh -
ing for over an hour at 1 Miramar 
Building 3. Gone on arrival .
Wednesday, May 29
12:04 a.m.: Medical Aid
/uni25B6A young adult female in Matthews 
Apartments was experiencing pain 
in her legs and a fever. Transported 
to hospital.
12:21 a.m.: Citizen Contact
/uni25B6Someone in the Marshall 
Apartments West tampered with 
their smoke detector. Residential 
Security Officer report taken.
4:40 a.m.: Suspicious Person
/uni25B6The subject was knocking on ex-
girlfriend’s door, trying to contact 
her. He was arrested over a viola -
tion of a domestic violence protective 
order. Closed by adult arrest.
8:09 p.m.: Theft
/uni25B6An unknown subject took a refrig -
erator from a lab in the Center for 
Molecular Medicine. Extra patrol was 
requested.  Information only.
Thursday, May 30
12:31 a.m.: Unknown Trouble
/uni25B6Someone heard screaming in The 
Village West Building 2. Unable to 
locate.
2:16 p.m.: Vandalism
/uni25B6There were chalk drawings along 
the whole length of Library Walk, 
possible art project. Checks OK.
11:42 p.m.: Call for Help
/uni25B6Screaming was heard in Galbraith 
Hall. Checks OK .
11:49 p.m.: Welfare Check
/uni25B6A male was seen vomiting in Lot 
103. Field Interview.
— REBECCA HORWITZ
Senior Staff WriterLIGHTS & SIRENSLights and Sirens is compiled from the
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edu.OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
HILARY LEE
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JUN E 3, 2013 | WWW. UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 
Google Glass is projected for release by 2014, but its technological innovations will be 
outweighed by its negative contributions to society.Pass on the Glass
B Y  angel  au-‐yeung   staff  writer
illustra tion   b y jeffrey  lau
QUICK  T AKESALTHOUGH THERE H AVE BEEN NO OFFICI AL NEGOTI ATIONS, RUMORS H AVE CIRCUL ATED TH AT DUE TO FIN ANCIAL 
ISSUES, PRICE CENTER’S ESPRESSO ROM A CAFE M AY BE REPL ACED BY ST ARBUCKS COFFEE.
Price Center is a haven for students passing 
time before class, and there is nothing more nec -
essary for students than a cup of Joe. Starbucks 
replacing Cafe Espresso Roma may seem benefi -
cial in the short term, but will prove unnecessary 
if introduced. Starbucks will add little variety to 
what UCSD already offers and will likely undergo 
similar monetary struggles to Espresso Roma.
Placing Starbucks in Price Center will not 
necessarily increase beverage variety, because 
campus markets already brew Starbucks cof -
fee. By shutting Espresso Roma down, the 
University Centers Advisory Board is banking 
on students to simply flock to another coffee 
shop with exactly the same offerings.
UCSD also has a variety of other popular 
on-campus coffee shops like Pete’s, Fairbanks 
and Perks that are a mere five-minute walk 
from one another. The problem isn’t in Espresso 
Roma’s product, but in broader financial issues. 
According to the UCSD Housing, Dining and 
Hospitality website, there are 14 markets and 
dining halls on campus that offer coffee, along 
with the other independent coffee shops that 
fight for business on our campus. This oversatu -
ration of coffee shops has contributed to the fis -
cal problems that have plagued Espresso Roma 
for the past few years, and these issues won’t be 
resolved by simply replacing the business with 
another one.
With so many places on campus offering 
the same product, it’ d be foolish to assume that 
a replacement would boost business. A failing 
neighborhood burrito restaurant does not imply 
that a Chipotle as a replacement would jump-start 
business. This is the unfortunate quandary that 
UCSD finds itself in and Starbucks as a solution 
will prove too shallow to work. 
  
— ANDY LIU
Senior Staff WriterStudents Should Support Cafe Roma 
and UCSD’s Fair Trade EffortsStarbucks’ Success and Popularity 
Makes It an Ideal ReplacementAnother Campus Coffee Shop Won’t 
Solve Underlying Financial Issues
Despite UCSD’s efforts to keep Cafe Espresso 
Roma alive, the small business still continues 
to experience financial troubles. Its rumored 
successor — the world’s largest coffeehouse — 
Starbucks, is more than a worthy replacement. 
Starbucks seems to thrive in any country and 
any environment; there is a reason why there 
seems to be a Starbucks on every block.
Cafe Roma’s potential removal has raised 
concerns that another small business is going to 
be driven out by a Goliath. To be fair, however, 
there is only a sprinkling of Café Romas in three 
different states, and as much as UCSD talks 
about “community” and “principles, ” it’s not run -
ning a charity.
Former University Centers Advisory Board 
Chair Albert Trujillo told the Guardian that 
UCAB did in fact attempt to give Cafe Roma 
“some room for improvement” but the following 
year’s results were not satisfactory. Cafe Roma’s 
lease was subsequently downgraded from yearly to 
monthly. Instead of facing potential eviction once 
per year, Cafe Roma has to now deal with it every 
month. If Cafe Roma continues to struggle to keep 
itself afloat, its replacement is inevitable.
Acting as an ideal replacement, a Starbucks 
would thrive at UCSD. While Starbucks coffee 
may be costly, its strong consumer perception 
drives millions of people to drink and eat its 
variety of products daily. Starbucks succeeds 
outside monopolistic conditions and has a busi -
ness model that figures out what consumers 
want and gives it to them. 
If Cafe Roma cannot make ends meet, 
Starbucks is a great option to replace it. Starbucks 
has a strong brand image, and it definitely knows 
how we suburban Americans want our coffee: 
weak, sweet and milky.
— ALEKS LEVIN
Senior Staff WriterSince 2005, UCSD students have campaigned 
to achieve the status of a “Fair Trade University, ” 
with the goal of exclusively offering selected fairly 
traded products. According to the product certi -
fication organization Fair Trade USA, UCSD has 
one of the strongest fair trade policies of all U.S. 
campuses and was the first “Fair Trade University” 
west of the Mississippi. Replacing Cafe Espresso 
Roma with an unregulated trade business such 
as Starbucks would undermine students’ efforts 
toward fair trade.
Earlier this year, the UCSD Fair Trade 
University Advisory Committee voted to revise 
the 2007 UCSD Fair Trade Policy shortly after 
Starbucks began meeting with University 
Centers. Instead of stating that vendors must sell 
officially certified fair trade coffee, the policy 
now permits “equivalent labels” from other fair 
trade labeling organizations.
These revisions are suspicious because 
Starbucks’ coffee practices would not be compat -
ible with the stronger, original fair trade policy. 
Unlike Cafe Roma, Starbucks coffee is not fair 
trade certified through a brand-neutral inspec -
tion by an independent, third-party organization. 
It is highly possible that Starbucks created its 
own fair trade requirements and granted itself 
verification rather than adhering to indepen -
dently enforced standards. 
By promoting fair trade products, UCSD sup -
ports livable work wages, humane working condi -
tions and guarantees against the use of child labor. 
As consumers we have the power and responsibil -
ity to support fairer trading practices. In the name 
of social justice and continuing our status as a “Fair 
Trade University, ” recent policy revisions should 
be revoked, and students should stop this interna -
tional giant from replacing Cafe Roma. 
— MIA FLORIN/hyphen.capSEFTO N
Staff WriterPull on Your
Designer 
Bootstraps to 
Get Ready
With the advent of Google 
Glass — a pair of Cyclops-
looking spectacles with 
a wearable computer screen infused 
into the lenses — Google manages to 
further our generation’s self-obsessed 
vices more so than smartphones have 
ever done before. 
The innovative device will blur the 
line between the virtual world and 
the physical world, effectively turning 
wearers’ experiences and sensations 
into sharable clips. With its hands-
free mobility and voice control, users 
can now merely say, “Ok glass, record 
now, ” and the gadget will record 
whatever their eyes see. “Ok gadget, 
post on Facebook, ” and Google Glass 
will post the video of the past five 
seconds for the world. Camera, video 
recorder, instant messenger, Facebook, 
Y ouTube, Google+ Hangouts — these are but a few of the gadget’s numerous 
functions that allow for extreme docu -
mentation of the most mundane, daily 
events. These features feed into young 
adults’ obsession and semi-delusional 
mindset that impulses them to be 
connected online at all times.
The National Institute of Health 
found in a criminalizing 2008 study 
that individuals in their 20s are three 
times as likely than older generations 
to harbor narcissistic personality dis -
order, with 58 percent more college 
students scoring higher on the narcis -
sism scale in 2009 than in 1982. The 
report defines the disorder as a “per -
vasive pattern of grandiosity, need for 
admiration, interpersonal exploitive -
ness and lack of empathy. ” These 
qualities are well represented in a typi -
cal young adult’s Facebook newsfeed 
where private matters are made public to garner attention and “likes” from 
friends and acquaintances. 
Those using Google Glass run the 
risk of succumbing to the observer 
effect, a phenomenon in experimental 
research in which the mere knowl -
edge of being observed can alter how 
one acts. The same effect must be 
considered if Google Glass becomes a 
mainstream commodity. The observer 
bias already pervades social interac -
tions today: People spend more time 
at social functions recording videos 
and taking selfies with their friends 
than any other generation. And with 
social media websites like Facebook 
and Twitter, in which a user’s worth 
and credibility are only measured 
in the currency of likes, friends and 
followers, the pressure to capture the 
perfect shot in the perfect light and 
angle trumps all else.Before Facebook, hanging out with 
friends meant creating memories that 
could only be recalled by the people 
involved in making the memory. 
Nowadays, there is a higher desire to 
socially interact for the sole purpose 
of sharing than for anything else. 
Google Glass feeds into these exhibi -
tionist tendencies — all interactions 
will no longer be moments in time 
but rather videos that will be recorded 
and replayed. 
And not only that, no one other 
than the Google Glass wearer will 
know if the lens is recording or not. 
Not knowing whether he or she is 
on camera may be the most unnerv -
ing and debilitating aspect of Google 
Glass — unless the observed partici -
pant truly does not care about being Ask any staff member on the 
Guardian (new or old) and 
they will tell you that this 
year was an anomaly. There was 
internal discontinuity, which felt 
unusual after two straight terms 
with the same editor in chief. This 
particular year was one with three 
EICs and the first actual election 
since the 2009–2010 school year 
that put me in the position to write 
this year’s soapbox. We lived quarter 
to quarter, but it really felt like we 
were living Wednesdays to Sundays. 
When September rolls around, 
each EIC pulls themselves up by 
their bootstraps (Steve Madden in 
my case) and attempts to put some 
kind of metaphorical Band-Aid on 
the problems of the Guardian, but 
any fix to any problem is temporary 
due to frequent turnover.
Every four years, there is a 
brand new staff with brand new 
ideas. I’m sure the editors of four 
years ago never imagined the 
Guardian would be home to a 
blatantly honest sex column or 
a section devoted solely to the 
fun stuff. (Lifestyle, I’m looking 
at you). But my generation of 
editors has brought those ideas 
forth, and they’ve flourished. And 
in four years, or even just one 
after I graduate, the Guardian 
may have a completely different 
role on campus. As much as I’ d 
like to see what happens to the 
newspaper when I’m an alum, it’s 
this upcoming year that keeps me 
thinking at night. 
In addition to having three 
EICs, this year has also set the 
record for the youngest editorial 
staff in our history (that’s an 
assumption but a valid one at 
that). Since several of our major 
editors are freshman, it’s been a 
fast-paced ride of training, learning 
and producing (with few breaks in 
between). With so many fresh faces 
in the office and so many of our 
beloved seniors graduating, we have 
had to set a new tone in the office. 
Maybe it’s precedent, a different 
mix of people or the addition 
of Party City decorations to the 
office, but the mood of the office 
has changed to reflect the positive 
energy that comes with a youthful 
new staff. With fall recruitment 
coming up, this may even change 
once again. I would like to 
personally thank the new editors 
for getting their footing on staff so 
quickly and gracefully. The hardest 
part is over. 
So now it’s time for summer, 
which for Guardian editors 
means internships, a bit of fun 
and numerous Skype meetings to 
discuss the year ahead. Because 
whether we want to admit it or 
not, the Guardian staff is primarily 
comprised of chronic workaholics 
in denial. 
You may shake your head now, 
but just wait until the Student 
Survival Guide is finished which is 
when the summer lull rolls around.
For those of us graduating 
next year, we only have 61 more 
issues to figure out our soon-to-be 
residual feelings about our time 
at UCSD and the Guardian. This 
simultaneously feels like too much 
and too little time. Maybe we’ll 
have it figured out by then. But 
then again, maybe not. 
laira  martin  lmm002 @ucsd.eduEditor's Soapbox
See GOOGLE GLASS , page 5OP IN ION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JUN E 3, 2013 | WWW. UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 5
The human eye has a creative appetite.  
Feed it for free with an all-you-can-eat buffet 
of contemporary art at MCASD.  
Museum locations downtown and in La Jolla. 
Visit us online for more info.  FeedYourGreedyOrgan.comFeedYourGreedyOrgan.comFeedYourGreedyOrgan.com
Admission is always free! 25 and under?WHEN YOU’RE 25 OR UNDER, YOUR EYES EAT FOR FREE AT MCA SD. 
25 and under free admission is generously 
supported by Qualcomm Foundation.

	(!
+	
*'
%&#%&"$ %
')')SOLVE FOR X By Philip Jia
Google Glass Technology Raises Privacy Concerns for UsersLE TT ERS  TO   THE  EDI TO R
Dear Editor,
Bottled water is valuable, espe -
cially to people in the United States. 
We buy bottled water because we 
think it’s safer, it tastes better and it’s 
convenient. It is so valuable that we 
go through about 50 billion bottles a 
year, and the majority of these are not 
recycled. What’s worse is that it takes 
about three liters of water to produce 
one liter of bottled water. This is sim -
ply illogical when tap water in the U.S. 
is federally regulated. However, we 
insist that bottled water is better. 
But a closer look proves that tap 
water can be, in most cases, better 
for us than bottled water. One reason 
is that many of the natural minerals 
found in water are filtered out when 
prepared for bottles. These minerals 
are harmless and perhaps beneficial 
to our health, but most prefer water 
without them simply to accommo -
date taste preference. 
Tap water also isn’t stored in 
unnecessary plastic. Depending on 
the type of water bottle, just one 
takes at least 450 years to biodegrade. 
Considering that nearly 90 percent 
of these bottles in the U.S. aren’t 
recycled and that bottles made with 
polyethylene terephthalate never 
decompose, this is a major problem. 
Y es, some of the most “trusted” 
water bottle industries will use these 
chemicals in their plastic and could 
prove to be harmful when exposed to 
heat and sunlight. 
Speaking of chemicals, many 
water bottle companies will use new 
or untested industrial chemicals in 
their water and distribute it for con -
sumption. Companies may also use 
tap water and bottle it to make more 
money by charging consumers with 
ridiculously unreasonable prices, just 
because it’s in a bottle. Most of us can do without 
bottled water and the harmful envi -
ronmental problems and health con -
cerns they come with. Perhaps we 
need to think twice before reaching 
for that plastic bottle when the tap is 
right in front of us.
— Holly Johnson
Freshman, Sixth College 
Dear Editor,
The sloth is a slow-moving mammal 
that lives in trees for their entire lives. 
They are considered to be so slow 
that people call those who are lazy as 
“sloths. ” /uni00A0Sloths have been roaming 
on the earth for millions of years. 
However, these amazing creatures 
are endangered because jaguars, 
harpy eagles and people continuously 
hunt them. Although sloths have 
the ability to camouflage into their 
habitat of trees, the tropical rainforests 
of South and Central America are 
currently chopped down every 
single day. The trees in the tropical 
rainforests of South America are not 
only endangering sloths but are also 
endangering other organisms. It has 
been recorded that ground-dwelling 
sloths that existed 11,000 years ago 
survived until the first humans 
arrived, which left out arboreal sloths 
to exist. Research supports the idea 
that humans were the cause of the 
extinction of giant sloths without even 
realizing it. Seeing how the extinction 
of one specie was due to the existence 
of another shows that it is necessary 
for humans to be careful of their 
activities in the habitats of other 
species. We must take action in taking 
care of our environment that is home 
to not only us but to the rest of the 
animals who live in it.
— Chaewhan Shin
Freshman, Sixth CollegeIt’s Urban Myth That 
Bottled Is Better Than Tap 
Endangered Sloths Are in 
Dire Need of  Protection
readers  can  contact
  angel  au-‐yeung     aauyeung@ucsd.edu  immortalized in some moment in 
time, all of his or her decisions and 
actions may always be inhibited and 
calculated. Every action, every deci -
sion and every interaction may be 
well-documented performances. 
Even in its beta stage of develop -
ment in which people are paid to 
play with the device, Google Glass 
is already running into privacy con -
cerns. San Francisco-based Lambda 
Labs announced it is developing 
a Google Glass facial recognition 
Application Programming Interface. 
In response, Google confirmed a few 
days later that it would not allow 
developers to create facial recogni -
tion apps for fear of privacy issues. Regardless of Google’s mandate, 
hackers’ successes in software devel -
opment are notoriously rampant 
(think jailbreaking for iPhones). 
No press statement from Google 
headquarters can quiet the fact that 
Google Glass is just another piece 
of hardware for software hackers to 
thrive on and take full advantage of.
However, despite Google Glass’s 
invasive capabilities and possibly 
debilitating effects on social interac -
tions and self-esteem, the gadget may 
have a redeeming quality. Current 
research suggests that Google Glass 
could be used to clinically diagnose 
autism. One of the earliest signs of 
autism in children include lack of 
eye contact and delayed eye-tracking 
movements for objects in motion. The technology used to track eye move -
ments, according to Technorati, can 
be “expensive, cumbersome and not 
very mobile. ” However, Google Glass 
has a built-in eye-tracking device and 
— with the collaboration of software 
developers — could turn the gadget 
into an eye-tracking diagnosis tool.
Back in the early years of middle 
school, camera phones roused cries 
of privacy concerns — and now, a 
mobile phone is perceived as inad -
equate if it does not include a camera 
lens. Google Glass may represent a 
step forward in computer technology, 
but it ultimately has negative social 
implications in the long term./uni25B6 GOOGLE GLASS,  from page 46 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JUN E 3, 2013 | WWW. UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
ST ACEY CHIEN
features@ucsdguardian.org
Last Friday, the Scripps Institution of Oceanography awarded 
superstar film director James Cameron the Nierenberg Prize 
for advancing public interest in science, for his upcoming 
documentary about life in the greatest depths of the sea. 
Cameron gave the $25,000 that comes with the Nierenberg 
Prize back to Scripps, saying, “There are a number of graduate 
students this might help and inspire the next generation of ocean 
leaders. ” 
The ocean is featured in nearly every movie he’s directed, 
including his blockbusters, “Titanic” and “ Avatar, ” and was the 
subject of his 2005 documentary, “ Aliens of the Deep. ” 
But a new documentary that is unnamed at present, produced 
by National Geographic, may be his most daring oceanographic 
adventure yet. 
“It took us seven years of planning and many more years of 
engineering expertise, ” Cameron said. “One of the coolest things 
was being down there with the lander [a semi-autonomous craft 
that helped Cameron survey the hadal depths]. ”
The solitude of being in the hadal depths with nothing but a 
giant robot to keep him company for hours was at times crushing, 
Cameron said. 
But the steely director’s patience led to some of the most 
breathtaking shots for the documentary. 
“There was nobody around but us two, ” Cameron said. 
“Coming back on board to see what this thing brought up was 
nothing short of a revelatory experience. Some of the best things 
I remember: seeing fish and eels swimming around us on some 
of the shallower dives. One of the deeper dives from the Arribas 
trench brought up these giant amphipods. I don’t think that’s been 
fully explained yet, this gigantism that we found in the trenches. ” 
Cameron filmed all the footage from a tiny, one-man submers -
ible he commissioned and helped design. 
“People think I was doing these dives to find inspiration for 
my movies, ” Cameron said. “I make the movies to pay for the 
dives. ”
Cameron generated a great deal of interest last year, when 
he descended 6.8 miles in the Pacific Ocean southwest of Guam 
to the bottom of the Marianas trench — the lowest point in the 
ocean. 
He captured an eerie and mesmerizing seascape complete with gigantic water insects, sulfur-eating clams and single-cell organ -
isms as big as a human fist. A billion people followed the project, 
dubbed the Deepsea Challenge, online. 
“He galvanized world-wide attention on the deep ocean, ” 
Doug Bartlett, a Scripps microbiologist who served as the mis -
sion’s chief science officer, said. “The world he revealed looked 
like something out of a science fiction movie. ”
The feat was seven years in the making and yielded over 200 
hours of footage from which the documentary will be culled. 
At the same time he was directing extraordinarily popular 
movies, Cameron was plotting and planning ways of developing 
a submarine and support equipment that would let him plumb 
treacherous waters. 
He sought help from Kevin Hardy, a researcher at Scripps who 
developed the “lander” — an unmanned deep-sea vehicle that 
carries lights, cameras and tools for sampling the ocean, sediment 
and a bit of marine life. 
It’s a robot and a homely one at that. But it also helped 
Cameron pursue what he calls “my personal awe and wonder at 
how imaginative nature is. ”
It was risky business. But Cameron likes risk — to a point.
Standing next to some of the scientists from the mission, 
Cameron said, “If you don’t allow yourself to fail, you won’t do 
anything worth the risk. You have to give yourself permission to 
fail. You’ll never do anything beyond what’s already [been] done. 
We’re a ver y risk-averse culture.”
Cameron also offered some advice for would-be filmmakers 
and adventurers: to keep fear out of the equation as much as pos -
sible. Most fear is irrational, he said. 
“If you’re going to be afraid, don’t do it, ” Cameron said. “We 
worked on this for seven years. I knew we’ d worked on it, and I 
had no reason to doubt the technology. I wasn’t too well versed 
on the internal communications, how we pinged back informa -
tion and so forth. I was too damn busy to be afraid — I’ d say an 
astronaut would be a good comparison: I had a checklist, and I 
followed it every day. ” 
Cameron has a point: By some estimates, we know less about 
the hadal depths — made up of the world’s oceanic trenches — 
than the dark side of the moon. They begin where the abyssal 
depths end, around 6,000 meters below the surface of the sea. 
The   Director   Who 
Dove   Deep   in   Search   of   Life 
)DPHGÀOPPDNHU-DPHV&DPHURQKRQRUHGZLWKWKH1LHUHQEHUJ3UL]HIURP
WKH6FULSSV,QVWLWXWLRQRI2FHDQRJUDSK\FDPHWR8&6'WRVSHDNDERXW
KRZKLVVFLHQWLÀFHQGHDYRUVKDYHVKDSHGKLVPRYLHPDNLQJFDUHHU
BY AYAN KUSARI   SENIOR STAFF WRITER
Photos by 0HJDQ/DR
See CAMERON , page 8
FEA T UR ES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JUN E 3, 2013 | WWW. UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 7
UC SAN DIEGO
Join Chancellor Pradeep K. Khosla for a 3.1 mile adventure through 
campus. Afterward, enjoy an event festival, including a Kids Fun 
Run, healthy living fair, live music, local food vendors and more!Triton 5K “Race for the Future” proudly sponsored by:
Fisher Scienti/f_ic
Darcy & Robert Bingham Fund  
   at  The San Diego Foundation
UCSD Emeriti Association
Darlene Shiley in memory of  
   Donald Shiley
Andrew & Erna Viterbi
Robert C. Dynes &  
   Ann Parode Dynes Fund at   
   The San Diego FoundationUC San Diego Oceanids
UCSD Retirement Association
Dr. Seuss Foundation
Henry’s Hemophiliacs
Peter ‘67 & Peggy Preuss
Elizabeth Van Denburgh ‘78
The York Girls!  
   Sybil * Cynthia * Rachel ‘71
Stone Brewing Company
5k.ucsd.eduGotta Snap ‘em All! 
Most people would never consider drawing Pokemon on 
classroom chalkboards as a means of alleviating boredom, and 
even fewer would think to make it a hobby. But Snap It UCSD 
has done exactly that.
Its name is a play on Pokemon Snap, a Pokemon-themed, 
first-person photography game on the Nintendo 64 console.  
   Snap It UCSD was established in February by two UCSD 
undergraduates who have asked to remain anonymous to 
preserve the element of mystery with regards to their project.
The two founders have chosen to go by the code names, “Tom 
Ato” and “ Anne Chovy, ” in reference to the two characters 
who used the same code names in the Pokemon TV show.      Unlike other groups and organizations, Snap it UCSD is 
neither a business nor a service; it was simply created for fun.
“It started out as a whim one night, ” Chovy said. “We were bored, 
and I had recently bought sidewalk chalk. So we wandered around 
campus, found an empty classroom and just drew Pokemon. ” 
Now, students can contact Snap it UCSD through its 
Facebook page or via email to request a drawing of a Pokemon 
in a specific classroom. There are no defined limits to the 
amount of requests a student can make; however, there is also 
no set due date for any request. 
Two UCSD students bring the virtual world of Pokemon to classroom chalkboards through their project, Snap It UCSD.
B y  ka ther yn  w ang   staff  writer
See POKEMON , page 8PHOTOS  COURT ESY OF SNAP IT UCSD8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JUN E 3, 2013 | WWW. UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG FEA T UR ES CASH FOR 
BOOKS
We buy over one million  
GL΍HUHQWWLWOHV“My eyes were the first eyes to 
see some of the species down there, ” 
Cameron said. 
Though the Deepsea Challenge 
mission marks some of the first trips 
to the least explored trenches of the 
Pacific Ocean, this isn’t the first time 
Cameron has filmed the deep sea. 
Cameron is an experienced diver 
with over eight major diving expe -
ditions to his name, including one 
for the Titanic. 
Cameron’s last 3-D documen -
tary, Aliens of the Deep, came out in 
2004. It only grossed about $8 mil -
lion, but it marked Cameron’s first 
foray into educational filmmaking. 
“Kids don’t ask, ‘Why go down 
there?’ — only adults ask that,” 
Cameron said. “They want to know, ‘How dangerous was it?’ and ‘How 
did you do it?’ and ‘How did you go 
to the bathroom?’ If you can inspire 
out of a class of 30 students even 
one of them, and you extrapolate 
that out over a global audience, then 
you’ve made a difference. ” 
He emphasized that good story -
telling was the driving force behind 
both his fictional movies and his 
documentaries. 
“I think one of the biggest val -
ues of my dive, my dive to the 
Challenger deep, is that we now 
have a sub that kids can touch, look 
at, have access to, ” Cameron said. 
“We’re taking it on a nationwide bus 
tour, and we’re starting it tomorrow 
in Los Angeles with 22 bus loads of 
inner-city kids. Mayor [Antonio] 
Villaraigosa will be there. ” 
Cameron is known for being a demanding boss and for having 
something of an ego. He wasn’t 
exactly kidding when he won the 
award for best director at the 1998 
Academy Awards. But he was very 
humble last Friday in discussing the 
dive, pausing at several points to 
laud the work of others. 
And he was eager to note that he 
had donated the lander to Scripps, 
whose scientists will use it to 
explore areas of ocean four to seven 
miles deep.
“I am not a scientist, ” Cameron 
said. “I call myself a science group -
ie. I’m here to support scientists 
like Doug and Kevin in their work, 
which is ongoing. All oceanograph -
ic science is under-funded. ”Cameron Reveals Onset of  Nationwide Tour of  Deepsea Challenger Submarine
Creators of  Snap It UCSD to Attempt 
Large- Scale Drawing of  Wailord Pokemon
The range of Pokemon that can 
be requested is limited to the iconic 
original 150, though the founders 
revealed that they might increase 
the range of Pokemon selection in 
the next few years.
The founders’ routine is to slip 
into an empty, unlocked class -
room in the evening and draw the 
Pokemon that students request. 
So far, the group has completed 
10 different drawings, decorating 
many classrooms including York 
Hall, Warren Lecture Hall, Center 
Hall and Solis. While at work, they 
divide the tasks: Ato outlines the 
Pokemon while Chovy colors them 
in and adds the finishing touches. 
But the artists usually aren’t alone 
— they said that an entourage of 
friends, occupied with Sudoku games, 
usually accompanies them for fun.
Snap It UCSD gained recogni -
tion when it left two drawings of the 
Pokemon, Seel and Dragonair, on 
the blackboard in Warren Lecture 
Hall 2001 on April 22, the night 
before an 8 a.m. Molecular Biology, 
Microbiology 120 Bacteriology 
midterm. 
Chovy recounted that many stu -
dents who saw the drawings on the 
board that day commented that the 
pictures brightened their days and 
that they lightened the mood of the 
midterm. 
“I remember sitting there and 
turning to the person next to me 
and saying that this is the coolest 
freakin’ thing I have ever seen, ” 
Eleanor Roosevelt College junior 
Shrey Patel, a student taking the 
exam that day, said. “It improved my 
midterm experience. ”
The artists of Snap It origi -
nally planned on fulfilling draw -
ing requests every Sunday eve -
ning. However, the difficulties they encountered — time constraints, 
shortage of staff and locked class -
rooms — made maintaining this 
schedule a challenge. 
Currently, they are under a more 
relaxed schedule, fulfilling requests 
whenever they have time.
The next big project they plan on 
undertaking is a drawing of Wailord, 
a Pokemon modeled after the blue 
whale, and the only one that is not a 
part of the original 150 that they have 
decided to draw. 
However, it will not be drawn in a 
classroom. Instead, the two founders 
envision the 14.5 meter tall Pokemon 
to be drawn to scale. They have not 
found a specific site for the project 
to take place, but they said that they 
want to recruit assistance for coloring 
the project.
Furthermore, they said that there 
are opportunities for UCSD stu -
dents to join the project. Students 
can message the group about joining 
to help draw or color. But both Ato 
and Chovy emphasized that they 
want to keep the group free and fun 
rather than ladened with organiza -
tion and scheduling issues that often 
arise from larger organizations.
“I think if people suggested more 
things, or if they want us to grow 
bigger at all, we’ll look into grow -
ing it, ” Ato said. “I think the reason 
we’re doing it now is because we like 
doing it. ”
While both artists will not be 
able to continue drawing through 
the summer, they expressed their 
interest in picking the project back 
up again next year. 
But for the time being, with 
Finals Week around the corner, they 
have tentatively promised to sur -
prise us with new Pokemon if their 
schedule permits./uni25B6 CAMERON,  from page 6/uni25B6 POKEMON,  from page 7
readers  can  contact readers  can  contact
aya n   k u s a r i      akusari@ucsd.edu   ka ther yn  w ang     xiw029@ucsd.edu  PHOTO  BY JONAT HAN GAO /GUARDIANCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JUNE 3, 2013 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
TRITON 5K: 
ADVENTURE THROUGH CAMPUSSAT 	
Tahrir
get
more  exposure  =  higher  attendamcelisted...
every ONDY
in The Guardian
Calenda r
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdg uardian.orgcampus
CAL ENDAR
6.03 - 6.092013
MON 6.03
5pm
BLOODY IVORY AND THE ELEPHANT CRISIS – 
I-HOUSE GREAT HALL
Elephants are highly intelligent animals with complex 
social behaviors. A recent surge in illegal killings of 
African elephants has been fueled by increasing 
demand for ivory. An estimated 35,000 elephants are 
slaughtered each year, raising concerns about the 
survival of this iconic African species. Learn about 
elephant cognition and wild behavior, and the illegal 
poaching of African elephants for ivory. Speakers 
include Dr. Christine Johnson of the Department of 
Cognitive Science at UCSD, Dr. Caitlin O'Connell of the 
Center for Conservation Biology at Stanford University, 
and Dr. Ella Tour of the Biology Department at UCSD. 
Learn how you can take action and get involved to stop 
the illegal poaching of elephants.
7pm
BLABBERMOUTH – THE LOFT, PC EAST
Have a story or song to share? Blabbermouth is a 
monthly event held at Th Loft, giving writers of prose, 
poetry, and fiction - as well as musicians and 
performers - a place to share their art. Enjoy some bites 
and beverages and support your fellow students! If you 
would like to participate, please email 
ucenmarketing@ucsd.eduTUE 6.04
2pm
'TASTY TUESDAY' FREE WEEKLY COOKING 
DEMO – THE ZONE, PRICE CTR PLAZA
Drop into The Zone every Tuesday from 2:00 to 
2:45pm for amazing live cooking demonstrations, 
complete with free food! Learn how to cook and eat 
healthfully, discover new recipes, and sample the 
food for free. Demonstrations feature local, organic, 
and vegetarian ingredients hosted by Whole Foods, 
Housing Dining Hospitality, Student Health Services, 
Recreation. Come hungry, leave healthy!
3:15pm
SUSPECT SERVICE: MIGRATING WOMEN, 
LABOR AND PROSTITUTION – ERC 115
The French mandate over Lebanon and Syria linked 
these former Ottoman Arab provinces to other 
territories under French tutelage, including North 
African colonies and protectorates in today's Algeria, 
Tunis and Morocco. In the context of concurrent 
transformations, women's movement in particular 
became suspect, especially those migrations which 
lacked the moral and economic supervision of 
women's activity by a spouse, a government or 
another institution. Women, often identified as 
foreign women by local populations, increasingly 
found work in service positions in the Eastern 
Mediterranean. We propose to take a Mediterranean 
frame to these circulations, to explore these 
processes in a comparative dialogue.SAT 6.08
STARTING 6/8
FREE SUMMER SEMINARS
Announcing CSI- Communication and Leadership 
Seminars for Summer 2013! Are you staying in the 
San Diego area this summer? Take advantage of our 
free seminars and boost your resume! Develop and 
enhance your public speaking and presentation skills, 
interpersonal and professional communication skills, 
and leadership. A certificate is awarded for successful 
completion of any summer seminar. All seminars are 
FREE to spring quarter registered UC San Diego 
undergraduate and graduate students. Summer 
academic course registration is not required. For a 
complete schedule of seminar dates and times, visit 
http://ccl.ucsd.edu/registration
9am
TRITON 5K: RACE FOR THE CURE – UC SAN 
DIEGO CAMPUS
Join Chancellor Pradeep K. Khosla for a 3.1 mile 
adventure through campus - past King Triton, the 
world famous Geisel Library, the Sun God, a 23-foot 
high stone bear, and a house mysteriously perched on 
the Jacobs School of Engineering! Afterward, enjoy an 
event festival, including a Kids Fun Run, healthy living 
fair, live music, beer garden and more! Net proceeds 
support UC San Diego student scholarships.THU 6.06WED 6.05
3:30pm
DRUG VIOLENCE SHAPING PROSTITUTION 
ON THE BORDER – INSTITUTE OF THE 
AMERICAS COMPLEX
In this talk, Sarah Luna, a Ph.D. candidate in 
anthropology at the University of Chicago, will 
examine how various economic and sociocultural 
values are transformed by the U.S./Mexico 
borders. She will also tackle issues of gender, 
sexuality, sex work, sovereignty and subjectivity, 
regional and national identity, and racialization in 
border zones.
FRI6.07FRI6.07 cont.
12pm
FREE WEEKLY TAI CHI CLASS – PC LAWN
Come out to the Price Center Lawn (just above the 
fountain in Price Center Plaza) every Friday from 12 
noon until 1:00 pm for a refreshing outdoor Tai-Chi 
experience! Tai-Chi is an ancient martial art that gently 
harmonizes the flow of energy through the body, 
creating balance and focus for your day. This class is 
free and welcome to all levels.
4:30pm
U.S. PIVOT TO ASIA: WHAT DOES IT MEAN FOR 
THE U.S.-CHINA RELATIONS? – INST OF THE 
AMERICAS, HOJEL HALL AUD
U.S. Pivot to Asia: What Does it Mean for the U.S.-China 
Relations? A Conversation Between Kurt Campbell and 
Susan Shirk. Speaker: Kurt Campbell.  Asian foreign 
policy consultant and UC San Diego alumnus Kurt 
Campbell will discuss U.S.-China relations and 
America's economic engagement with the Asia-Pacific. 
He was widely credited as one of the key architects of 
'Pivot to Asia,' a comprehensive strategy under the 
Obama administration aimed at advancing U.S. 
national interest in Asia. A reception will be held at the 
conclusion of the lecture. Presented by the 21st 
Century China Program at the School of International 
Relations and Pacific Studies (IR/PS) at UC San Diego.5:30pm
JACOBS SCHOOL OF ROCK VI – THE LOFT
Rock on, engineers! Jacobs School of Rock is back for 
the 6th time to bring together the best of UCSD's own 
student bands for a night of booming bass, banging 
drums, and general raucousness. This year's lineup 
includes: The Resistors, Fault, The Dustin Rhodes Band, 
Fureak Azzzazzi and the Chubby Chasers, C0DE and 
The Others. JSOR is a time-honored UCSD tradition and 
an event that we at The Loft look forward to every year. 
Don't miss this FREE show, and bring your rage face!10am
MEDITATION AT THE ZONE – THE ZONE, PRICE 
CTR PLAZA 
Come to The Zone from 10:00-10:30am for free 
meditation classes! Practice a variety of techniques to 
achieve greater mental clarity and a peaceful state of 
being. With the constant stress of academics and 
campus life, meditation will help recharge your mind and 
body. All levels welcome.
1:30pm
THERAPY DOGS! FREE EVERY THURSDAY – THE 
ZONE, PRICE CTR PLAZA 
Drop into The Zone every Thursday from 1:30 to 2:30 pm 
to get some love from adorable, professional therapy 
dogs! Studies show that petting an animal can lower 
stress, and the smiles on students' faces proves this to 
be the case every time.
ADVERTISE
in the 2013-­1014 Student Survival Guide
A pocket-sized 
guide to UCSD and 
beyond, over 47,000 eyes on you
To get involved, contact ads@ucsdguardian.org
for more informationRACE FORTHE CURE10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JUNE 3, 2013 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSClassifieds$
Gua rdian Classi/f_ieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT^^^\JZKN\HYKPHUVYNJSHZZPÄLKZcrossword
ACROSS
1 Muddy stuff
5 Fallback option
10 Pinochle calls
14 Bounce, as off a canyon wall
15 Margaret Mead’s island
16 Tom Joad, for one
17 Tool that can extract nails
19 Princess played by Lucy Lawless
20 Spanish song
21 Surprise “from the blue”
22 “Get Smart” evil agency
23 Silky sweater
25 Bard of boxing
27 It’s poured into an iron at breakfast
34 They may be outsourced
37 King with jokes
38 Keebler cracker
39 Oral health org.
40 Aerialist’s apparatus
42 Pictures on the wall
43 Back biter?
45 “Without a doubt!”
46 Mars’ Greek counterpart
47 United Kingdom currency
50 Heavy drinker
51 Tranquilize
55 Plastic user’s concern
58 Words of woe
62 Autobahn autos
63 Length times width
64 Fur bartered by Native Americans
66 Highlands dagger
67 “Bye for now”
68 “I did it!”
69 High school skin problem
70 Idyllic spots
71 Sources of ironDOWN
1 Tourist magnet
2 Golden St. collegian
3 P .F. __’s: Chinese restaurant chain
4 Shows servility
5 Free TV spot
6 Moussaka meat
7 Bullets and such
8 Seasonal song
9 Pub bill
10 Tailless flying toy
11 Swedish furniture giant
12 Flintstone pet
13 Aral and Arabian
18 Traditional round dance
24 Miles away
26 Act like a couch potato
28 Lightning burst
29 Drink à la Lassie
30 Juan’s January
31 Russian ruler of yore
32 To be, in Burgundy
33 Charlie Brown’s “Darn it!”
34 Doorway feature
35 Sign of spoilage
36 Java neighbor
40 Small jazz group
41 Olympian ruler
44 In jeopardy
46 Total numerically
48 Pony’s place
49 In the vicinity
52 “Please be __ and ... ”: polite request 
words
53 Spanish squiggle
54 These, in Madrid
55 Baby’s pop
56 “Tears in Heaven” singer Clapton
57 Swiss capital
59 Lettuce purchase
60 Brisbane buddy
61 Fifty-fifty
65 Medical drama settings, for shortMUSIC SERVICES
“Sound Gallery” Award-Winning DJ Service. 
Creative, experienced, professional DJ, and 
a music collection second-to-none.  Playing 
“Free Style” all genres and eras! We do: 
indoor/outdoor events & clubs. Playing: Top 
40 - Old School - New School - Latin - Jazz 
- Zydeco - Country - Slow Dancing - Pole 
Dancing - Flamenco - Waltzes - Tangos - 
Easy listening - Etc. Call DJ O. Sergio at 
858.405.8210. Email: mainserge@ hotmail.
com. Web: facebook.com/dj.osergio
HOUSING
Near UCSD, UTC - $2100. Available September 
- 3 bedrooms 1.5 bath condo near UCSD, 
UTC - perfect for 3-4 students. Washer/dryer 
included. No co-signers needed. Listing ID: 
56100358 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
ROOM FOR RENT IN LA JOLLA HOME - 
$950 - ROOM FOR RENT- $950.00 - LARGE 
FURNISHED ROOM WITH BATH, AND 
SEPARATE ENTRANCE, IN LA JOLLA HOME 
WITH A VIEW. WALK TO SHORES BEACH. 
KITCHEN USE. ON BUS ROUTE. UTILITIES 
INCLUDED. PARKING ON DRIVEWAY. CALL 
JANET AT 858-456-0865. EMAIL JANHEY6@
AOL.COM
PETS
**FRENCH BULLDOG PUPPY** - 1800.00 - HI!! 
I have a brown and white (Pied), Male, French 
Bulldog puppy born 3/7/13, he is and will be 
short and compact, Mom is Brindle and Dad 
is a Blue Brindle who is the son of the famous 
Mr.Frenchie (YouTube), Pet Price is $1,800 
and $2,500 for AKC..If you are SERIOUSLY 
interested please call..**SERIOUS BUYERS 
ONLY**PRICE IS FIRM**NO TRADES**CASH 
ONLY. Listing ID: 57440033 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
Gorgeous French Bulldogs - 1650.00 - I have 
gorgeous two French Bulldogs puppies for 
sale 8 weeks old (boy and girl). They are 
fawn-pied color, short body, round head, 
very flat face with wrinkles and beautiful 
markings. Girl is very outgoing and curi -
ous. She loves kisses and will make you 
laugh 24/7. Boy is very sweet and chill. He is 
such a mama’s boy. Listing ID: 57439792 at 
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
Male Platinum Retic - 200.00 - 3 year old Male 
Platinum Retic very nice looking snake can 
be Handle also will trade for a CB Male baby 
Green Anaconda Platinum male taking large 
rats.eating with no problems. Very healthy 
snake. Listing ID: 57439256 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
Gorgeous Male Pug !!! - 350.00 - Gorgeous 
Male Pug, fawn color, 8 weeks old,1st set 
of shots and dewormed along with its 
health record! $350.00 fee TEXT ME ONLY 
AT 619-247-0380 for more information! I’m 
Located at Chula Vista !!! * tambien damos 
informaci?n en espanol * Envia mensaje de 
texto al 619-247-0380 para agendar una cita, 
solo textos por favor !! Listing ID: 57081090 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
informationGOOD DRIVERS
NEEDEDPYTHON AND IPHONE
APP PROGRAMMERS
Get the perfect part-time job./uni00A0Earn
$12.85/hour. Work on campus. Flexible
hours. Paid training. Hiring now for
summer training. UCSD students only.
Details at/uni00A0shuttledrivers.ucsd.eduWanted for paid part-time summer 
projects. UCSD’s Cosmology group 
is seeking experienced Python 
and iPhone software developers. 
Applicants must be current UCSD 
students. Starting salary for 
qualified students will be $12/hour. 
Applicants will spend between 
10 and 20 hours per week on 
programming projects.  
Please send an informal transcript 
and summary of programming 
experience (in PDF form) to 
greggreg99@ymail.com.graphic
artists
graphic
artists
graphic
artistsJOB ID: 772461
http://www.facebook.com/asgraphicstudioApply on port triton!now
hiring!
AWARD-‐WINNING  DJ SERVICE
facebook.com/dj.osergioPh 858 -405-8210
mainse rge@ho tmail.co mSOUND  GA LLERY
DJ O. Sergio
www.ucsdguardian.org/advertisingSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JUN E 3, 2013 | WWW. UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 11
our way to the top three. ”
On the opening day of competi -
tion, the Tritons finished third in the 
first of two three-team heats. Paired 
with Barry and Central Oklahoma, 
the Tritons finished the 2,000-meter 
race with a time of 7:37.03. 
With the loss, UCSD was rel -
egated to the Repechage race, to 
compete against Central Oklahoma, 
Mercyhurst and Western 
Washington the following day.
Staving off elimination, the 
Tritons (7:42.96) just edged out sec -
ond place No. 3 nationally ranked 
Western Washington (7:43.95) to 
claim a spot in the four-team Grand 
Final on Sunday. With Barry and 
Nova Southeastern earning the 
automatic qualifier, and with one 
day of rest in hand, No. 6 UCSD 
along with Western Washington 
completed the field for the Grand 
Final. Nova Southeastern finished 
with a time of 6:42.47, while Barry 
finished at 6:48.00.
The Tritons graduate three 
seniors from the varsity eight 
boat: seniors Alyssa Dixon-Word 
(Collegiate Rowing Coaches 
Association Scholar-Athlete), Michelle Robbins (CRCA All-
American) and Travaglione (First-
team All-Conference). Other mem -
bers of the boat include junior 
coxswain Catherine Sheffler, sopho -
mores Rachel Schneiderman, Kelly 
Peterson and Claire Duesdieker, as 
well as freshmen Kelsey Henck and 
Shruti Kamath. 
“We couldn’t have asked for a 
better season, especially coming off 
last season, ” Travaglione said. “When 
[head coach Colin Truex] became 
our coach, we were all ready to work 
hard to improve even just a little bit 
from last year. As the season went on 
we all realized we had something spe -
cial and could go to nationals. ”
The Tritons end a solid sea -
son, by making the program’s first 
appearance at Nationals since 2008 
and earning second place at the 
Western Intercollegiate Rowing 
Association championships. 
“The seniors finished their 
careers with an outstanding perfor -
mance, and the underclassmen have 
something they can build on in the 
coming years, ” Truex said to the 
UCSD athletics department.
PRESENTS
FREE FOR ALL
UCSD UNDERGRADSFree for UC San Diego undergrad students with valid I.D.
21+ bring valid government issued I.D. in addition to student I.D.
For more information, please contact ASCE at avpconcerts@ucsd.edu or (858) 534-0477.
ASCE.UCSD.EDUChurros
El TigreDelicioso
Catering
Food TruckKettle
Masters 
Kettle KornHonest Tea
Friday,  June  7th
2-­6PM  at  RIMAC  Field
FREE  food,  drinks,music,  games  &  prizes
Performances  bySaint  Motel  &  more!BEAR  GARDENBEAR  GARDENUCSD Women’s Varsity Eight Wins 
Repechage, Place Third in Grand Final
/uni25B6 CREW , from page 1
readers  can  contact
RACHEL UDA     ruda@ucsd.edu   PHOTO  BY NOLAN T HOMAS/ GUARDIAN FILE
PHOTO  BY SAN H LUONG/ GUARDIAN FILESPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
RACHEL  UDA
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JUN E 3, 2013 | WWW. UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 
Crew Crowned
March 31 -‐ june 2
V arsity  8  Grand Final V arsity  8  Repechage V arsity  8  Hea t  One
Nov a 
Southeastern
Barr y
UCSD
Western
W ashingtonUCSD
Western 
W ashington
Central
Oklahoma
MercyhurstBarr y
Central
Oklahoma
UCSD6:42.74
6:48.00
6:54.69
6:59.127:42.96
7:43.95
7:45.38
8:05.627:25.93
7:34.99
7:37.03
V ARSITY
EIGHTJunior Coxswain Catherine Sheﬄer, freshman Shruti Kamath, senior Alyssa Dixon-Word, 
freshman Kelsey Henck, senior Michelle Robbins, senior Ashley Travaglione, sophomore 
Rachel Schneiderman, sophomore Kelly Peterson, and sophomore Claire Duesdieker.
The UCSD womens crew team’s varsity eight boat 
took third place at the NCAA Division II Nationals 
last Sunday, May 2 at Eagle Creek Park, Indiana.  
No. 2 ranked Nova Southeastern upset first-ranked Barry in the 
Grand Final to claim the program’s first NCAA title. The Tritons 
came in third, six seconds after Barry (6:54.69) and five seconds 
in front of conference opponent Western Washington (6:59.12). 
Along with a national title in the varsity eight competition, Nova Southeastern’s varsity four boat also took first in the Grand 
Final.
“We went in seeded fifth and just by making the Grand Finals 
exceeded everyone’s expectations about what we could do, ” varsity 
eight member Ashley Travaglione said. “I think we knew as a team 
that we could do better than fifth, and we showed that by fighting 
UCSD Alumnus Promoted to Assistant Swim Coach  SWIM  AND  DIVE
Last Friday, April 31, the UCSD 
swimming and diving team pro -
moted 2010 UCSD alumnus Daniel 
Perdew to a full-time assistant coach.
Perdew, who earned degrees 
in Management Science and 
Psychology, graduated in 2010. The 
five-time NCAA National Champion 
in the 50-meter freestyle and 100-
meter freestyle has since spent the past two seasons as a part-time assis -
tant coach.
“Earning a full-time position at 
your alma mater is pretty exciting, ” 
Perdew said. “It’s pretty special, and 
I’m really thankful for [men’s coach 
Matt Macedo] and [women’s coach 
Corrie Falcon] being able to learn 
from them. They’ve both been guid -
ing me and teaching me so that I 
feel like I’m prepared to take this 
position. ”
With Perdew as part of staff in 
2012, the Tritons earned national 
runners-up honors on the men’s side 
and took third place at nationals on 
the women’s side. Perdew says he’s excited to take on 
an expanded role, which will include 
recruiting responsibilities and more 
administrative authority.
“I think the biggest thing that I 
bring to the program is that I’ve been 
part of the program for six years, ” 
Perdew said. “I know the school, I 
know the student athletes and the 
type of athletes that we want for the 
program. ”
Perdew was promoted by head 
coaches Falcon and Macedo. Both 
promoted from assistant coaching 
positions for the 2012 season.
“I am excited and I feel a sense of 
confidence, and I feel like he’s going to do an incredible job, ” Falcon said. 
“It feels good having someone on 
board that knows UCSD inside and 
out and is truly passionate about the 
sport. ”
Falcon says Perdew has many 
assets to bring to the coaching staff.
“I would say that he has a great 
ability to relate to the student athletes, ” 
Falcon said. “He understands the 
stresses of balancing school and the 
training load. I’ d say he’s bright and 
creative and extremely hardworking 
and also very reliable and confident. ”  
 National Champion 
Daniel Perdew named 
UCSD assistant coach.
BY  R A C H E L  U D A   SPORTS  EDITOR
readers  can  contact
RACHeL UDA     RUDA@ucsd.edu  CREW
The fifth-ranked UCSD varsity eight boat took third place at the NCAA 
National Championships last Sunday, June 2.
B Y    Rachel uda   SPORTS  EDITOR  
photo   b y  JOHN  HANACEKCan We 
Please Restart 
the Division I
Conversation?
zev  hurwitz 
zhurwitz@ucsd.eduW arming the  
bench
So ends another year of UCSD 
sports, with another two national 
champions (in individual swim -
ming events) to note in the record 
book. An All-American here, a confer -
ence championship there and a host 
of individual achievements, but the 
2012–2013 season was certainly not a 
standout year for the program.
UCSD Athletics’ largely uneventful 
year was complemented by the fact 
that no attempt had been made on a 
move to Division I standing. Both in 
2011 and 2012, the Division-I Triton 
rah-rahs have been given false hope 
that mobility was imminent. In 2011, 
the Big West chose the University of 
Hawaii over UCSD to join the confer -
ence, which hosts nearly every other 
D-I University of California athlet -
ics program. Student voters rejected a 
$495 fee increase in Winter 2012 that 
would have funded a move to D-I with 
a future invitation from the Big West.
The student interest group’s “D-I 
Not Now’” campaign against the mea -
sure was simple in that it focused pri -
marily on preventing fee increases on 
students. This student body was only a 
year older than the current one, which 
voted against a measly $11 per quarter 
hike to help fix up Price Center and the 
Old Student Center with a clause that 
would likely reopen the Crafts Center. 
If students are not willing to keep up 
something they do use, then why pay 
for a hypothetical?
Even as someone who, after the D-I 
vote last year, exhibited all of the symp -
toms remedied by prescription-drug 
Cymbalta, I recognize that a move to 
D-I cannot be achieved by milking 
students for extra green … right now.
I’ve gone blue (and gold) in the face 
from explaining the benefits of a D-I 
program a countless number of times. 
Even within opposition groups to last 
year’s vote, the consensus seemed to 
be that a move was beneficial but not 
at the proposed cost. Even the name, 
“D-I Not Now” implied no inherent 
bias against the program, greater pres -
tige or hyped-up school spirit. (Oops 
— I meant to say a move to D-I.)
The money’s got to come from 
elsewhere. I guarantee all athletic gift 
organizers this right now: Give me a 
position as assistant vice chancellor of 
campus student media relations with a 
$19 million one-time salary, and I will 
donate all but $500 to the D-I Fund. (I 
have my eyes on a new PS4.)
Short of paying out of the univer -
sity’s hole-filled pockets, the new vice 
chancellor student affairs, the new A.S. 
Council and incumbent administra -
tors in applicable positions need to 
turn the tide and make fundraising 
for Division I athletics a priority and 
a reality.
The map on page one of today’s 
issue of the Guardian shows where the 
Metropolitan Transit System and San 
Diego Association of Governments 
will lay tracks for the Blue Line Light 
Rail through Sixth College. Our aca -
demics are constantly developing, and 
it’s every week or so that our professors 
and graduate students win awards or 
are named to national boards. Another 
medical center building is sprouting 
up overlooking Genesee. The future is 
around the corner for UCSD, and it’s 
our job to get the ball rolling on mak -
ing a strong competitive D-I program 
part of that vision.
But I’ d also be okay if someone got 
me a PS4.See CREW , page 11