The University of California’s 
medical centers and health care sys -
tems opened their doors to California 
residents in participation with 
Covered California on Jan. 1. This 
is in accordance with the Affordable 
Care Act passed in 2010 and its 
requirement to provide state health 
insurance coverage. This move will 
ultimately give California citizens 
greater access to health care.
The Affordable Care Act “gives 
flexibility to States to adopt innova -
tive strategies to improve care and the 
coordination of services for Medicare 
and Medicaid beneficiaries, ” accord -
ing to Title II of the law. Covered 
California serves as California’s indi -
vidual implementation of this pro -
gram on the state level.According to the Covered 
California Facts Sheet, Covered 
California is the state’s health care 
“marketplace” or “doorway to 
health coverage. ” Functions of the 
program include providing eligible 
Californians with financial assistance 
for their health insurance and an 
expansion of Medi-Cal, the state’s 
Medicaid program.
With the UC system’s participation 
in Covered California, state citizens 
will now have access to UC hospitals 
and resources; UCSD students will also 
have the option of selecting either the 
UC Student Health Insurance Program 
or programs under Covered California. 
According to an interview with UCSD 
Health Sciences Communications 
Director Jacqueline Carr, San Diego 
residents will now have the opportu -
nity to access the benefits of the UCSD 
Health System.
“We have both primary care physi -
cians and specialists, from Encinitas to 
South Bay, prepared to take care of the 
full spectrum of a patient’s needs, ” Carr 
said. “The Moores Cancer Center is 
the only NCI-designated comprehen -
sive cancer center in the region, and 
the Sulpizio Cardiovascular Center is the only dedicated cardiac center 
locally. Both of these excellent facilities 
are accessible through our physicians 
and Covered California. ”
The UCSD Health System is 
beginning a marketing campaign by 
reaching out to the public with free 
events to raise awareness amongst 
San Diego residents of their new ben -
efits. The system has an advertising 
campaign that covers over 10 news -
papers and radio stations, distrib -
utes flyers in community areas and 
has a webpage dedicated to Covered 
California updates.
Carr said that the health sys -
tem held two educational events 
last month which sought to inform 
attendees how to access UC San 
Diego Health System physicians 
through Anthem insurance, the same 
providers who oversee SHIP .
“Covered California will help give 
the San Diego community additional 
access to both preventative and spe -
cialized health care services, ” Carr 
said. “In the long-term, this will 
mean a healthier community. ” 
INSIDEGO FORTH, 
KORTH
R E S T A U R A N T   W E E K 2014  P . 6-7
CALIFO RN IA
UCSD to 
Consider 
Membership 
With USSA A.S. CO UNC IL
HEA LTHGov. Brown’s proposed state budget endangers the UC tuition freeze.
B Y Alek sandra  Konst antinovic    Associate  News  Editor       infographic   b y Zoe  McCracken Reinstating an old student 
fee would allow the 
university to become a 
part of the national group.
After reducing UCSD student con -
tributions to University of California 
Student Association this year by 94 
cents per student, VP External Affairs 
V anessa Garcia presented to Council 
in the hopes of reinstating these fees 
and proposing membership to United 
States Student Association.
A student referendum was passed 
in 1985 agreeing to pay $1.00 per stu -
dent per year, the minimum mem -
bership fee to UCSA. Since then, the 
minimum dues have increased to $1.30 
per student annually. However, since 
2009, UCSA has contributed $2.24 per 
student per year.
“What I think happened, is sim -
ply that somebody decided along the 
way that they wanted to pay more to 
UCSA, ” Garcia said. “The dues that 
we pay to UCSA are the fundamental 
pieces of their revenue and the way that 
they’re able to produce what they’re 
able to do. We’re locked in to pay the 
$1.30 to be members, so the extra 94 
cents was just a bonus we were paying 
to UCSA. ”
UCSA anticipated that UCSD 
would continue to pay in that amount 
this year again. However, budget cuts 
to all A.S. executive offices led to the 
cutting of those 94 cents. UCSA at 
first anticipated drawing $9,500 from BY     G a b r i e l l a   Fleischman associate  news  editor
California Gov. Jerry Brown announced his 
budget proposal on Jan. 9, allocating an addi -
tional $142.2 million to the UC system — a 5 
percent increase from last year. However, the budget 
falls short of the UC Regents’ preliminary budget, 
which assumed an increase of $263.1 million, resulting 
in a budget gap of over $120 million.
Should the budget pass the state legislature as is, 
it would mark the third year in a row that the UC 
system has received an increase in state support fol -
lowing severe budget cuts and tuition hikes after the 
recession.
The 5 percent increase to the UC general fund was 
a pillar of Proposition 30, bringing the University of 
California’s total operating budget to $2.99 billion. The 
university system will continue to receive the funding 
increases provided that it keeps tuition levels steady.
UC Vice President for Budget and Capital Resources, Patrick Lenz, issued a statement on behalf 
of the university system.
“The leadership of the University of California 
appreciates Governor Brown’s commitment to full 
funding for the second year of his multi-year budget 
plan for the university, ” Lenz said. “The governor’s 
proposed increase in state general funds and UC’s 
continuing efforts to achieve savings through admin -
istrative efficiencies will preclude any tuition increase 
in the 2014–15 academic year. ”
UC President Janet Napolitano had also stated last 
November that the UC system would explore a tuition 
freeze for the 2014–15 school year. Under Prop. 30, 
students are unlikely to see tuition increases until 
2016. However, with the UC system operating on less 
money than expected, it may mean increases in tuition 
See BUDGET , page 3
See USSA , page 2 “Covered” Patients to Access UC Hospitals
UC medical centers will 
allow newly insured 
Californians to access 
their network of care.
B Y  Anna  P arkhurst &  mekala  neelakaNt an staff  writer  &  associate  news  editor
readers  can  contact
mekala  neelakant an     mneelaka@ucsd.edu  
$155  billion
Total budget expendituresBudget Breakdown
$142  million
Total increase in
funding for UC system$2.9  billion
Total UC budget
$263  million
Requested by UC 
Regents$125  million 
Award promised 
to UC system for 
freezing tuition in 
2012–13If UC undergraduates 
were to take on the 
budget gap, every 
student would pay$9.8  billion
Total funding for 
California 
Department of 
Corrections and 
Rehabilitation
2011 NCAA champion 
Nick Korth discusses his 
success upon transferring 
to UCSD after UC Irvine’s 
swim team was disbanded 
before his freshman year.
WE'VE  G OT  Y OU  C OVERED
obamacare  comes  to  ucsd
opinion,  P age   4SP ORTS,  P AGE  12
THURSDAY
H 79 L 41FRIDAY
H 79 L 43
SATURDAY
H 79 L 41SUNDAY
H 77 L 43
FORECAS T
VERBATIM
Each new 
track tastes 
of different 
despera -
tion, and it’s 
refreshing to 
hear a band willing to forgo 
glossy production in favor of 
visceral performance.”
- Jonah Yonker
UNDERSOUND
WEEKEND, PAGE 8
INSIDE
New Business  ................. 3
Letter to the Editor  .......... 5
Book Review  ................... 8
Sudoku  ......................... 11
Sports  ........................... 12“WINTER BREAK  
2014 SHORTENE D 
TO TWO W EEKS
Get the full story on the 
unprecedented schedule 
changes in Tuesday’s issue.
NUMBE R CRUNCHING: The governor’s proposed 2014–15 budget, released Jan. 8, increased 
funding to both the University of California and California State University systems, but the 
increase fell $120.9 million short of the amount requested by the UC Board of Regents in a 
preliminary budget, passed last November. Read our take on the issue in OPINION, page 4.$657VOLUME 47, ISSUE 24  THURSDAY , JANUARY 16, 2014  WWW. UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG
2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 16, 2014 | WWW. UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG NEW S
reserves to accommodate this deficit, 
but through the loss of a staff member 
and adjustments to accounting, UCSA 
made up the deficit without having to 
pull from reserves.
“I think if we can’t reinstate that 
funding right away it has to happen in 
the near future, ” said Garcia. “I think 
the benefits that we receive from it are 
just so great that I think it would be 
worth it to the student body. ”
One option that UCSA members 
are considering is to raise the mini -
mum membership fee so that all 
UC campuses pay the same amount. 
Currently, UC Santa Barbara pays 
$7 per student per year, but it is 
considering paying a lower amount 
as well. If all participating campus -
es were to pay equal amounts, the 
minimum membership fee would be 
$3.49 per student per year.
“We need to have something 
where there’s some sort of equi -
table admissions into UCSA, ” A.S. 
President Andy Buselt said. “The 
fact that we have such differentiable 
admissions into UCSA is a problem. ”
The primary benefit that UCSA 
provides is a student voice con -cerning University of California and 
California education issues. UCSA 
has connections within the Office of 
the President, the UC Regents, the 
California State Student Association 
and the Student Senate for California 
Community Colleges.
“Being an executive in UCSA, I’ve 
really been able to ensure that there are 
student perspectives in those conversa -
tions, ” Garcia said. “I think that stu -
dents at the [University of California] 
know how competitive these schools 
are, and I think students can get lost 
in worrying about their schoolwork. 
UCSA allows students to be active in 
creating what their educ         ation 
is and how it should be accessible to 
every student in California. ”
In addition to increasing UCSD’s 
contributions to UCSA, Garcia hopes 
to gain membership with the United 
States Student Association. UCSD was 
a USSA member from 2001 to 2008 
and currently requires a minimum 
fee of 50 cents per student per year. 
However, according to Garcia, USSA 
anticipates the fee increasing next year 
to as much as $1.00.
“If we were to run a referendum 
and potentially put this to a student 
vote, I would advocate for going for the dollar, simply because I wouldn’t 
want to run two referenda in a row in 
the course of a few years, ” Garcia said. 
“I also accounted for how much it’s 
going to travel for us to go to USSA 
conferences. ”
By analyzing past allocations of 
travel expenditures during UCSD’s 
membership with USSA, Garcia con -
cluded that travel expenses would 
amount to 57 cents per student per 
year, totaling $1.57 per student per 
year for USSA membership. 
“USSA really looks at education 
and student power on a very com -
prehensive and national scale, ” Garcia 
said. “I want students to vote on this 
and to have a voice    it to pay a few 
extra dollars to make sure our voice is 
really being heard. ”
A potential referendum that would 
increase the External Affairs office bud -
get and include membership to USSA 
would be $3.10 to $4.35. Allowing 
for room to grow and expand, Garcia 
hopes to propose a referendum for 
$4.35 to $5.
Additional reporting by Karen To.
FLEETING THOUGHTS By Irene Chiang
RAINY FRIDAYS By Eunice Ho
UCSA to Consider an Increase in Minimum Membership Fee
readers  can  contact
gabriella   Fleischman     gfleisch@ucsd.edu  /uni25B6 USSA,  from page 1
FOLLOW  
US  ON
TWITTER
@UCSDGUARDIANThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and 
Thursdays during the academic year by UCSD  students 
and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this 
newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, 
without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2014, all 
rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible 
for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The 
views expressed herein do not necessarily represent 
the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of 
California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian 
is funded by advertising. The MLK Issue.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Emily Ku 
Advertising Director  
Noelle Batema
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Page Layout
Dorothy Van, Flavia Salvadori, Tao Tao, Nathalia Herret, 
Dorothy Lee, Joselynn OrdazLaira Martin
Zev Hurwitz
Allie Kiekhofer
Aleksandra Konstantinovic
Gabriella Fleischman
Mekala Neelakantan
Lauren Koa
Kelvin Noronha
Rachel Uda
Stacey Chien
Sydney Reck
Vincent Pham
Jacqueline Kim
Brian Monroe
Taylor Sanderson
Amber Shroyer
Zoë Mc Cracken
Jenny Park
Jeffrey Lau
Rachel Huang
Claire Yee
Philip Jia
Madeline Mann
Dorothy VanEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
Deputy Managing Editor
Associate News Editors
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
Associate Features Editor
Lifestyle Editor
A&E Editor
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Associate Copy Editors
Web Editor
Training & Development
Social Media Coordinator
Copy Readers
Clara Chao, Rosina Garcia, Andrew Huang,
Susan Shamoon
Editorial Assistants
Rita Eritsland, Shelby NewallisNEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 16, 2014 | WWW. UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 3

 
 
 
7KH'LVFRYHUWKH/DZSURJUDP 
KDVMXVWODXQFKHGIRU 
 
Comprised of  40 workshops throughout Winter Quarter , the Discover the Law program offers all 
currently -registered UC San Diego students the chance to explore different areas of law and 
the legal profession IRUIUHH. You may  drop in to as many workshops as you like, but students 
who register online and  attend at least four workshops will earn a resume -worthy        
Certificate of Achievement.  
&KHFNRXW6WXGHQW/HJDO6HUYLFHV·ZHEVLWH http://sls.ucsd.edu , for more info and to sign up. x  ,QWHUHVWHGLQOHJDOLVVXHV"x  &RQVLGHULQJDFDUHHULQWKHODZ"x  :DQWWRPHHWDWWRUQH\VDQGRWKHUOHJDOSURIHVVLRQDOV"Council kept up its good Winter 
Quarter record of ending before 9 
p.m., with limited conflict and thus, 
sadly, limited entertainment.
Kyle Heiskala, who frequently 
contributes during public input 
under a myriad of titles, came last 
night as Director of ASUCSD Moves. 
He announced that changes will 
be made to the 
transportation ref -
erendum language 
specifying what 
the money will be 
allocated towards. 
This includes universal MTS access 
and the continuation of the Arriba/
Nobel shuttle service. 
Revelle 
Senator Soren 
Nelson then 
made a Guardian 
shout-out after blam -
ing the plague for 
his absence from last 
week’s meeting.
“I’m sure you saw 
that there’s a new 
Revelle Senator in the 
Guardian — since I 
know you all read it 
religiously, ” Nelson 
said. Many Council 
members then laughed and turned 
to look at me. It was a shocking dis -
covery that I am, in fact, not invis -
ible — one I am still coping with.
Nelson then announced that 
there will be a new Biology build -
ing between Main Gym and Urey 
Hall. If only there were enough 
biology students at UCSD for that 
to make sense.
VP Finance Sean O’Neal then 
explained that Council still owes 
almost $280,000 total in back-fund -
ing to the college councils. The pro -
posed solution is for Student Affairs 
to give Council a zero-percent interest loan, to be paid off over the 
course of six or seven years, in order 
for Council to finally, finally, finally 
pay off this debt. 
In other unfortunate finan -
cial news, O’Neal announced that 
Council has used $1 million from 
reserves without replenishing this 
out-take over the past 10 to 15 years. 
That will put a 
dent in your wal -
let.
The awk -
wardly humorous 
moment of the 
night came when passing a clerical 
constitutional amendment. After 
everyone repeated the word “yes, ” 
Campuswide Senator 
Mio White distractedly 
responded “here, ” inciting 
uncomfortable chuckles.
A.S. President Andy 
Buselt suggested that 
Council coordinate a hip 
hop routine for an Alpha 
Chi Omega talent show, 
generating giggles about 
some inside joke involving 
Buselt kicking someone 
while dancing. I felt sadly 
out of the loop. 
Finally, Campuswide 
Senator Jordan Coburn introduced 
next Thursday night’s free comedy 
show at The Loft.
“They’re really awkward people 
from NorCal, they’re just crazy and 
super funny, ” Coburn said. “We got 
them and they were kind of expen -
sive so it’ d be cool if you came. ”
As a NorCal native, I will admit 
that I enjoyed the implied associa -
tion between NorCal and awkward -
ness. It’s hella real.
With that, have a good three-day 
weekend, and continue to enjoy the 
summery January weather.Council Talks New Loan 
Plans, Future Biology BuildingMiddle-Class Scholarship Offered Through FAFSA in 2014-15 
after the bill’s provisions expire in 
2016 and 2018.
Critics of Brown’s budget, includ -
ing Senate Republican Leader, Bob 
Huff, believe that it doesn’t address 
the structural problems plaguing 
the state treasury.
“Ramping up state spending before 
making sure we’re on solid fiscal 
ground is a recipe for disaster, ” Huff’s 
statement read. “What’s the good of 
building up programs only to tear 
them down in a couple of years?”
Students will also be able to 
take advantage of the state-funded 
Middle Class Scholarship, which is 
set to start for the 2014–15 school 
year. The scholarship will reduce 
UC tuition by 10 percent for fami -
lies making under $150,000 and 40 
percent for incomes under $100,000.Brown’s budget also included a 
nearly $1 billion increase dedicated 
to community colleges, with $592 
million earmarked to eliminate the 
colleges’ debt to the state caused by 
the recession.
California Community College                   
Association President Scott Lay 
believes that the budget allocation 
will help bring CCCs back to pre-
recession status.
“The governor’ s proposed bud -
get for community colleges would 
return the system of 112 colleges to 
2007–08 funding levels, ” Lay said. 
“With increases of $400 million 
for student access and success and 
$175 million for maintenance and 
equipment, students will find classes 
restored, better classroom environ -
ments and more support. ”
In addition to the $1.2 billion 
combined total increase for higher education, Brown’s plan also includ -
ed a $3.92 billion increase for K-12 
schools — the largest single expen -
diture in the budget.
Last week, California Senate 
leader pro Tem Darrell Steinberg 
proposed a plan for universal pre -
school that would cost the state 
$1 billion per year. The governor’s 
budget did not include any dedi -
cated allocations to the proposed 
statewide program that would make 
preschool free, but not mandatory, 
for California 4-year-olds.
Lawmakers will continue to 
debate the budget until June 15, 
at which point the state legislature 
must adopt a spending plan. The 
2014–15 budget will go into effect 
on July 1.
readers  can  contact
Alek sandra    K onst antinovic     ALKONSTA@ Ucsd.edu  /uni25B6 BUDGET,  from page 1
gabriella  fleischman  
gfleisch@ucsd.edunew  business
LIKE US ON 
FACEBOOK!
WWW.FACEBOOK.COM/UCSDGUARDIAN
I’m sure you 
saw [it]... in the 
Guardian — 
since I know you 
all read it reli -
giously,”
— SOREN  NELSON
REVELLE SENATOR“OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
LAUREN  KOA
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | T HURSDAY , JANUARY 16, 2014 | WWW. UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 
Here we go again.
Tuition fee increases for UC 
students may be on the horizon, 
even though the state has a surplus, and 
the governor is giving the UC system an 
increase in funding. 
The UC Board of Regents had dollar 
signs in their eyes in November when they 
naively announced another tuition-increase-
free year for students for the coming year.
But then, Governor Jerry “Raincloud” 
Brown came forward with his proposed 
state budget, which shows a funding allo -
cation to the UC system that is $120.9 
million less than what the Board of 
Regents accounted for.
This is no rounding error. The gap 
gives our gatekeepers in Sacramento their 
two familiar budget-closing options: raise 
fees or cut expenses. In real terms, more 
closures and higher prices for UC services. 
This would come when UC students are 
still hurting from a decade of tuition hikes, 
which nearly tripled the cost of in-state 
tuition between 2002 and 2011.
With the ball now in the state legislators’ 
court, it is imperative that state legislators 
increase funding allocations to the UC sys -
tem before the budget is finalized in June.
Sure, it’s easy to point fingers. It was irre -sponsible for UC President Janet Napolitano 
to make promises to students with a pre -
liminary UC budget that Brown said in 
November puts the system on track for “a 
gigantic tuition increase. ” The governor says 
he’s committed to improving accessibility 
and affordability for students, but he doesn’t 
show it when he won’t consider siphoning 
some of California’s projected $850 million 
surplus to prevent fee hikes.
The $120.9 million gap, divided over the 
184,000 undergraduates on nine UC cam -
puses, shows a shortfall that averages to $657 
per student per year. This figure is likely 
to spike to a much higher level, though, 
because part of the UC system’s guaranteed 
funding is reliant on stable tuition. Both the 
UC and Cal State systems are guaranteed 
increased funding as long as tuition levels 
remain stable or go down. Thus, any fee 
increase would jeopardize the increase in 
funding and could easily mean an additional 
$1000 or more from our pockets to the UC 
piggy bank. The fee hike would alienate even 
more of California’s “best and brightest” stu -
dents than did previous increases, which is 
unacceptable and unaffordable.
The solution is simple: Move some sur -
plus money to the UC system. That, paired 
with modest cuts to some non-essential UC-funded programs, should be able to 
spare students from ridiculous fee increases.
For now, we can only wait until June 
when the California budget will be locked 
in. But the conversation about the UC 
Regents’ financial responsibility needs to 
begin now. Napolitano is still in her first year 
and is eager to win the hearts of a UC con -
stituency that has largely complained about 
her appointment. Napolitano is skating on 
thin ice already, and her reputation does 
not allow for a mass disappointment, which 
would follow any four-digit fee increase.
Fallout from a tuition hike might throw 
a wrench in the governor’s plans for re-
election. Fiscal responsibility starts with 
open dialogue between the UC Regents 
and the governor during budget planning 
in November. Brown needs to recognize 
that students’ needs are an immediate con -
cern, and his precious debt repayment plan 
is not as urgent. Napolitano and friends 
need to have realistic expectations for the 
state’s contributions to our campuses and 
not make rash preliminary budgets with -
out consulting Brown.
Our wallets are safe for now, but the 
safety nets are thinning, and without bold 
action from the capitol, we could be in for a 
rough landing.Modest Cuts and Reallocated Surplus Can Solve $120.9M UC Funding Shortfall
Laira Martin
EDITOR IN CHI EF
Zev Hurwitz
MANAGING EDITOR
Allie Kiekhofer
DEPUTY MANAGING 
EDITOR
Lauren Koa
OPINION EDITORKelvin Noronha
ASSOCIATE OPINION 
EDITOR
Mekala Neelakantan
ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITOR
 
Aleksandra 
Konstantinovic
ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITOR
Gabriella Fleischman
ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITOREDITORIAL  BOARD
The UCS D Guardian is published twice a week at the 
University of California at San Diego. Contents © 2012. 
Views expressed herein represent the majority vote of the 
editorial board and are not necessarily those of the UC 
Board of Regents, the ASUCS D or the members of the 
Guardian staff. On Jan. 1, 2014, the United States took on the 
ultimate New Year’s resolution, in the form of 
the Affordable Care Act. This year, the federal -
ly mandated ACA, or Obamacare, will finally be rolled 
out to 38 million Californians, an estimated 5.4 million 
of whom were previously uninsured. That’s a lot of 
health insurance for Covered California — the Golden 
State’s ACA “marketplace” — to roll out, and there’s not 
exactly a huge surplus of doctors and medical centers 
that can provide such services.
Now, it looks like the UC system will have to bear 
some of the brunt of Covered California’s health care 
expansion. Last November, the UC medical centers 
announced a partnership with Anthem Blue Cross to 
allow access to the five UC medical centers, which 
includes over 5,000 affiliated physicians, beginning 
Jan. 1. At UCSD, that will mean that all those enroll -
ing with Covered California will have access to UC San Diego Health System physicians and services at 
the Sulpizio Cardiovascular Center, the Moores Cancer 
Center, the UC San Diego Medical Center, the Shiley 
Eye Center and around 20 outpatient locations — the 
same places we UC Student Health Insurance Plan sub -
scribers go for healthcare.
For the uninsured, opening these doors might be 
a great advantage. California has offered affordable 
health care plans through Medi-Cal, but this year, 
Covered California will expand Medi-Cal to an esti -
mated 1 to 2 million people, according to the Covered 
California website.
UC Senior Vice President for Health Sciences and 
Services Dr. John Stobo contended that the UC system 
has an obligation to the state of California to help pro -
vide all the healthcare it has promised since it receives 
funding from the state. But obligation or not, expecting 
for the UC Health system to pick up the slack is a big 
See ACA, page 5
Unaffordable
Care
Under the Affordable Care Act, UC Medical 
Centers are now opening their doors to uninsured 
+ITQNWZVQIV[\PW]OP\PMaTIKS\PMÅVIVKQIT
footing to do so.
ILLUSTRATIONS BY JENNY PARKDear Editor,
The French have an old saying, 
“The more things change, the more 
things stay the same. ” A century ago 
from shortly before the Great W ar, 
America’s Catholics joined forces with 
immigration and labor advocates 
within the Democratic Party in a 
quest for social justice. Mr. Alvarez 
finds himself unwittingly caught in 
the current transformation of his own 
political party. The old religious left 
has come home to roost.
It is not a coincidence that the 
Holy See is occupied by a Spanish-
speaking pontiff who has largely taken 
sins of the flesh off the table. It is not 
a coincidence that San Diego has a 
Hispanic bishop. How times have 
changed within our local Democratic 
Party. The old guard feminists and 
local lesbian, gay, bisexual, transsexual 
and queer community who railed 
against any mention of Catholicism 
now have the wind to their nose. 
But why the contradiction, and what 
exactly has changed?
Perhaps we can draw compari -
sons from “The City of Churches, ” 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, where 
Catholic labor together with a largely 
democratic and ethnically diverse 
electorate built the homes and facto -
ries that dominated the Midwestern 
landscape one hundred years ago. 
Since the candidacy of Al Smith, first 
Catholic nominee of either party, for 
president of the United States in 1928 
until the Kennedy Administration 
of 1960–1963 most Catholics voted 
Democrat. These voters were largely 
Italian, Polish and Irish immigrants 
and their first generation children. 
We see the same dynamic with today’s 
immigrants, except they now arrive 
from Mexico, Central and South 
America. This remains a blessing for mayoral candidate Alvarez. Ten years 
after JFK, there occurred a watershed 
moment in American politics: Roe v. 
W ade legalized abortion and fractured 
the Democratic Party until today. 
Father Groppi walking hand-in-hand 
with African-American leaders a few 
years earlier in the Civil Rights battle 
on Milwaukee’s south side during the 
late sixties also ignited a nation. My 
father attended the same seminary in 
Saint Francis as the good priest.
In a letter from Father Drinan of 
the Boston College Law School to my 
dad, the great Jesuit said, “I certainly 
appreciate the great compassion which 
you have for the terrible tragedies of 
the Vietnam W ar. ” At this point, the 
Catholic Church was divided over the 
morality of Vietnam.
Ironically, our local Democratic 
Party now seems conflicted in regard 
to the present social issues com -
ing out of the V atican. Surprisingly, 
among the two candidates for mayor, 
David Alvarez is the more socially 
conservative. Mr. Alvarez is a good 
and decent man who just so happens 
to be at the right place at the right 
time. It is doubtful if leaders within 
the local Democratic Party under -
stand both the political philosophy 
and social psychology inherent in 
this mayoral election. May I humbly 
suggest that they read the Maureen 
O’Connor playbook for mayor includ -
ing the unspoken pact with Helen 
Copley, former publisher of The San 
Diego Union-Tribune. David Alvarez 
will become San Diego’s first Latino 
mayor. It’s important to remember 
the unspoken in politics being that 
when former House member Daniel 
Rostenkowski (D-Ill.) was asked 
why he was so chummy with then 
President Reagan, he simply replied, 
“Because the President likes me. ” And, 
I like David.
/uni00A0
— Daniel K. Smiechowski  
San Diego, CaliforniaO PI N ION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | T HURSDAY , JANUARY 16, 2014 | WWW. UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 5
LETTER  TO  THE  ED ITOR
Changes in Democratic 
Party Suit David Alvarez
favor to ask.
It seems an altruistic move for 
the UC system to partner with 
Covered California, but with our 
schools already underfunded and 
experiencing cuts every year, altru -
ism probably shouldn’t be our 
priority. UC medical centers will 
receive even lower reimbursements 
for those receiving healthcare 
through Covered California than 
they do from their current patients. 
In the process, the UC medical 
centers will lose more money while 
their hospitals become more over -
crowded than ever.
UC SHIP websites for nearly every 
campus have released information about Covered California, assuring 
students that Covered California 
doesn’t affect them, because SHIP 
already meets the minimum cover -
age requirements. But we think that 
Covered California is likely to affect 
students in other, less overt ways.
For one, SHIP is broke. After 
a third-party management system 
under-budgeted the per-student cost 
of SHIP when it was instituted in 
2011, the system incurred $57 million 
in debt in only three years. UCSD 
students enrolled in SHIP pay $484 
per quarter, but the SHIP debt from 
our campus alone is at $21 million 
and counting. Medical centers already 
need more funding than they’re get -
ting from SHIP payments and the 
state, and although affordable health -care for all is a noble goal, inundating 
an already-overcrowded health system 
with hordes of new patients may be a 
clumsy move.
It feels like the UC system is 
trapped: We’re publicly funded, and 
because of this, our medical centers 
are obligated to help take care of 
providing healthcare for the rest of 
the state. But our schools are already 
floundering and in dire need of 
funding, our health insurance sys -
tem is in millions of dollars of debt, 
and now, we’re taking on the rest 
of uninsured California for an even 
lower price. If the UC health system 
has enough difficulty taking care of 
itself, it’s irresponsible to believe it 
can be responsible for the healthcare 
of the rest of the state.HALCYON DAYS By Christie Yi
/uni25B6 ACA,  from page 4UC Medical Systems Cannot Facilitate Healthcare for AllARTS | FOOD & DRINK | MOVIES & TV | MUSIC | THINGS TO DOWEEKEND
SAN DIEGO RESTAURANT WEEK
INSIDE
RESTAURANT  WEEK ...................................6
MOVIE  REVIE W...........................................8
BO0K REVIE W............................................8
ALBUM REVIE W.........................................8JAN. 19-24, 201410TH ANNUALA&E  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | T HURSDAY , JANUARY 16, 2014 | WWW. UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 7
SAN DIEGO RESTAURANT WEEKSeasons 52 is a seasonally inspired fresh grill and 
wine bar. Although offering five courses, each 
section of the menu is guaranteed diet-friendly, 
with all dishes at 475 calories or less. The highlight 
of the menu is the Cedar Plank Salmon. The fish and 
roasted vegetables are cooked on a cedar plank which 
creates a unique and sensational flavor. Be sure to save 
room for dessert to try the award-winning “mini indul -
gences, ” specialty mousses famous for being served in 
the size of a double shot glass. It’s a shot worth taking.
— LAUREN CRAIG  
STAFF WRITERThe Melting Pot is a one-of-a-kind dining experience for 
all occasions. Although its fame stems from their cheese 
and chocolate fondue, the entree, “The French Quarter, ” 
is not to be ignored. Offering a selection of filet mignon, breast 
of chicken, shrimp and andouille sausage all topped with cajun 
spices, the Melting Pot brings Louisana flavor to La Jolla. For an 
additional $5 patrons can add the Flaming Turtle Chocolate to 
their meal which is a flavorful combination of milk chocolate, 
caramel and pecans flambéed tableside and served with a selec -
tion of fruit and treats.
— LAUREN CRAIG  
STAFF WRITER
Fig Tree Cafe’s brick walls and low lighting pro -
vide customers with a rustic refuge in the urban 
Hillcrest setting. The hearty Tequila Lobster 
Ravioli is not to be missed; with added chipotle, it’s 
sure to turn up the heat. Fig Tree also provides many 
gluten-free and vegetarian options for its guests, and if 
you’re willing to spend a little more, they also offer a 
wine pairing with each course.
— SYDNEY DAVISON
STAFF WRITER
You can’t leave San Diego without at least trying 
Mexican food from Old Town once. Because of Cafe 
Coyote’s festive atmosphere and limited-time $10 
lunch menu, you’re bound to have a great dining experience 
without killing your college-kid budget. Their Famous Old 
Town Carnitas is perfectly accompanied by a batch of fresh, 
handmade tortillas. And if their huge portions don’t satisfy 
you, the hot-cold, crispy-creamy enigma of their Fried Ice 
Cream will do the trick.
— WILL HSU
CONTRIBUTING WRITERIf one of your New Y ear’s resolutions is to add some culture 
to your diet, take a step toward it by trying some quintes -
sential French dishes — like escargot or duck confit — 
from the four-star kitchens of The French Gourmet. If it’s your 
first time trying them, you can trust that they’ll be prepared 
extraordinarily well. Afterward, reward yourself with the hot-
and-cold wonders of Baked Alaska (ice cream packed in cake 
and coated in flaming meringue) right after.
— WILL HSU
CONTRIBUTING WRITERWalking into Brooklyn Girl, you’ll feel like 
you’ve been transported from Mission Hills 
to a hipster haven, complete with giant vin -
tage birdcages hanging from the ceiling. Well-known 
for its new oyster bar, Brooklyn Girl has a wide variety 
of seafood options on its menu. The Pan-Roasted Sea 
Bass is usually priced just under the amount of dinner, 
so along with a deal, you’ll also get a hearty side dish of 
vegetables served in a creamy butter sauce.
— SYDNEY DAVISON  
STAFF WRITER
There probably aren’t many places in San Diego where you can get 
“flaming cheese, ” but Apollonia Greek Bistro is one of them. “Flaming 
cheese, ” also called “saganaki, ” is a dish made with sheep’s milk cheese 
that’s flamed in brandy right at your table. The Cretan Salmon is broiled with 
a lemon and spinach sauce. Best of all, both dishes are also served with warm 
pita bread. Greek fare at Apollonia is also vegetarian-friendly.
— SHELBY NEWALLIS  
EDITORIAL ASSISTANT
JAN. 19-24, 2014SEASON S 52 THE MELTING  POT
FIG TREE  CAFE
CAFE COYOTE THE FRENCH GOURMETBROOKLYN  GIRL
APOLLONIA  GREEK  BISTRO$45 D INNER $35 D INNER
$35 D INNER
$10 LUNCH $25 DINNER$35 D INNER
$25 D INNERFIRST  COURSE  BLACKENED  STEAK  AND  BLUE 
CHEESE  FLATBREAD
SECOND  COURSE  SEASONAL  OFFERING
THIRD  COURSE  ORGANIC  BABY SPINACH  SALAD
FOURTH  COURSE  CEDAR  PLANK  SALMON
FIFTH  COURSE  MINI INDULGENCE  DESSERTFIRST  COURSE  SPINACH  ARTICHOKE  CHEESE  
FONDUE
SECOND  COURSE  CALIFORNIA  SALAD
THIRD  COURSE  THE  FRENCH  QUARTER
FOURTH  COURSE  FLAMINT  TURTLE  CHOCOLATE  
FONDUE  ($5 ADD  ON)
FIRST  COURSE  CRISPY  EGGPLANT  WITH  TOMATO , 
MOZZARELLA  AND  BALSAMIC  GLAZE
SECOND  COURSE  TEQUILA  LOBSTER  RAVIOLI
THIRD  COURSE  FIG BREAD  PUDDING  WITH  
VANILLA  ICE CREAM
FIRST  COURSE  FAMOUS OLD TOWN CARNITAS
SECOND  COURSE  FRIED ICE CREAMFIRST  COURSE  ESCARGOTS A LA BOURGUIGNONNE
SECOND  COURSE  DUCK LEG CONFIT
THIRD COURSE BAKED ALASKAFIRST  COURSE  BACON -WRAPPED  VIETNAMESE  
MEATBALLS
SECOND  COURSE  PAN-ROASTED  SEA BASS
THIRD  COURSE  BROOKLYN  BOMBSHELL  BROWNIE
FIRST  COURSE  SAGANAKI
SECOND  COURSE  CRETAN  SALMONTRY THIS TRY THIS
TRY THIS
TRY THIS TRY THISTRY THIS
TRY THIS8     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | T HURSDAY , JANUARY 16, 2014 | WWW. UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG WEEKEND
Poetry in the 
Mosh Pit: 
A Guide to 
Hardcore
In my mind, modern hardcore 
music sits somewhere at the cross -
roads of punk and progressive 
metal: The vocals howl and spit about 
everything from social inequities to 
being plain old pissed, while the back -
ing instruments churn away at odd 
time signatures and fuse styles seam -
lessly. The whole genre feels almost 
like broken poetry, grittily lawless and 
overflowing with experimentation in 
dissonance and noise. 
Drive Like Jehu:  Though they only 
played together for five years, San 
Diego-based Drive Like Jehu devel -
oped something of a cult following 
in the immediate area, quietly tearing 
apart the hardcore scene with roiling 
melodies and elliptical rhythms that 
roll themselves around in your head 
for weeks after. Tracks to Try: “New 
Math, ” “Luau, ” “If It Kills You”
Continents.:  A r e  y o u  m o r e  p r o g r e s -
sively inclined? Look no further than 
this fledgling post-hardcore group 
from Dresden, Germany. Rather than 
shredding out of the gate, Continents. 
builds upon surprisingly delicate gui -
tar melodies that interlock and pick 
each other apart, sweeping out and 
flaring up at the fever pitch just before 
the whole thing unravels into disar -
ray. Each new track tastes of different 
desperation, and it’s refreshing to hear 
a band willing to forgo glossy produc -
tion in favor of visceral performance.  
Tracks to Try: “moon above a gathered 
sea, ” “where the shade and I, ” “adrift”
Botch:  The number of purported 
Converge fans that haven’t heard of 
Tacoma, W ash. ’s Botch never ceases 
to amaze me. Though now defunct, 
Botch set the stage for every big name 
in hardcore music you can shake a 
mic at. They didn’t invent melodic 
interplay, orchestral flourishes, elec -
tro interludes or shuddering break -
downs; they were just the first to put 
them all together in the same arena. 
Furthermore, the boys seemed well 
aware of the uncharted territory they 
were exploring and cheerfully went 
about setting fire to the idea that cer -
tain genres couldn’t mix. Tracks to 
Try: “Man the Ramparts, ” “Micaragua, ” 
“Frequency Ass Bandit”
Off Minor: For reasons that seem 
somewhat obvious, one might 
doubt that a small group of friends 
from New York City could even 
attempt to fuse the subtle flour -
ishes and intricate improvisation 
of jazz with raging hardcore. Even 
for New York, that sounds a lit -
tle backwards. Pleasantly surpris -
ing is the success with which the 
two styles meld, giving rise to an 
utterly unique sound that rises and 
falls through beauty and ugliness 
breathlessly. The impossibly light 
is smashed under the undeniably 
heavy; the grippingly chaotic is 
reined in by the fleetingly calm. It’s 
definitely a challenge, but the kind 
that renders other music a little flat 
when you come back around to it. 
Tracks to Try: “The Heat Death of 
the Universe” , “Everything Explicit” , 
“Punch for Punch”
Largely ignored by the radio, hard -
core music has only really just found 
critical recognition as an art form in 
the last decade or so, with bands like 
Converge and The Dillinger Escape 
Plan netting rave reviews and offer -
ing high-intensity live performances. 
These few artists are just a sampling of 
the startling variety that can be found 
in hardcore as a genre. FACTS & 
FIGURES
Number of restaurants 
participating in this 
year’s Restaurant Week.180+
Year 
the ﬁrst 
Golden Globes took place 
(“The Song of Berna -
dette” won Best Picture 
that year).Years since 
Restaurant Week 
began in San Diego.
Year 
Tina Fey 
and Amy Poehler met in 
an improv class. They hit 
it off after Poehler was 
impressed by Fey’s 
Catherine the Great joke.194310
1993
PRESS 
PLAY
“DIGITAL WITNESS”
ST. VINCENT
“AFTER THE DISCO”
BROKEN BELLS
“SUNS IN OUR MIND”
DAMIEN JURADO
“THE HEART”
NEEDTOBREATHE
QUOTABLE
“It’s the story of 
how George 
Clooney would 
rather ﬂoat away 
in space and die 
than spend any 
more time with 
a woman his 
own age.”The Vietnam War is not a new 
topic for American literature, 
with novels like Tim O’Brien’s 
“The Things They Carried” firmly 
entrenched in the pantheon of mod -
ern writing. Despite the preponder -
ance of novels about the war and its 
aftermath, few novels have addressed 
life as a college student during the 
conflict, facing the looming possibil -
ity of being drafted on a randomly 
drawn lottery number upon gradu -
ation.
Denis O’Neill, screenwriter of the 
1994 film “The River Wild, ” seeks to 
fill this literary void with his new novel, 
“Whiplash. ” A semi-autobiographical 
book, “Whiplash” follows protagonist 
Danny O’Shea through his senior year 
as a Heorot House fraternity brother at 
Dartmouth in 1970, closely resembling 
O’Neill’s own experiences as a graduate 
of the same alma mater.
O’Neill’s strengths as a screenwrit -
er are apparent from the first para -
graph, with repartees bouncing off 
each other with ease. O’Neill spends 
little time describing and fleshing 
out the members of the supporting 
cast as distinct individuals, but he 
deftly establishes the merry band as a 
group — their drunken conversations 
perfectly echo the nonsensical and 
overstated talk every college student should be familiar with.
The novel could be described 
as a series of episodes of drunk -
en debauchery fondly inspired by 
O’Neill’s own days at the “big green. ” 
At one point, the group robs an over -
turned freight train filled with beer, 
under the dubious claim that their act 
is “salvage, ” not theft. Unfortunately, 
the tales from times spent under the 
influence end up undermining the 
novel, since only a handful of them 
have anything to do with the Vietnam 
conflict. Others, like one in which 
Danny and his fraternity brothers are 
pulled over for driving 18 mph on 
the highway while high on acid, are 
unoriginal — they have already been 
told and retold by college students 
for years.
But the incidents that more 
directly involve the Vietnam con -
flict increase the novels worth. His 
description of the extent to which 
students go to avoid the draft (includ -
ing gaining 50 pounds and gluing 
their boots shut for weeks), bring to 
life the paranoia and anxiety students 
must have felt, awaiting their gradua -
tion date along with the draft lottery 
date. A feeling that simeltaneously 
feel so far, and not far enough for the 
college students of today.
O’Neill’s rose-tinted view of his college days at Dartmouth is briefly 
lifted in an attempt to tackle the 
social mores of the era. He includes 
a lean couple of pages dedicated to 
chronicling the travails of George, a 
Native American student who choos -
es to commit a crime and be sent 
back to his reservation rather than 
live in the alienation he experiences 
at the hands of his privileged class -
mates. But his short-lived attempt to 
further criticize Dartmouth’s homog -
enous social arena is abandoned with 
George, and the book gives way to 
more debauchery.
Into this testosterone-fueled 
arena (Dartmouth was an all-male 
campus until 1972) steps the saving 
grace of the novel, Julia, one of seven 
women allowed to temporarily enroll 
via a theater exchange program. By 
far the most interesting character in 
“Whiplash, ” Julia establishes her place 
on campus as both an anti-war activ -
ist and Heorot House’s first female 
brother. Not simply a cardboard cut-
out for female empowerment, her 
entanglement with an already-taken 
Danny is perhaps the most realistic 
facet of the novel, maturely written 
and providing an insight into how 
a relationship can meld when faced 
with an uncertain future, especially 
a future containing a deadly conflict.
O’Neill’s debut is ultimately too 
caught up in recounting the fun and 
frivolity of campus life, and those 
who wish to understand the Vietnam 
War era beyond college nostalgia 
should look elsewhere. However, as 
an entertaining journey through the 
“animal house, ” it excels and provides 
merriment in bounds. 
-‐   dieter joubert
       staff  writerWhiplash
While it lacks Vietnam-era insight, “Whiplash” is 
an entertaining and debaucherous nostalgia trip.BOOK   REVIE W
Science fiction films of late have 
predicted a future in which 
man and machine either exist 
in glorious rapture to man’s benefit, 
or violently clash as a warning of the 
dangers of technological progress. 
Writer-director Spike Jonze (“Where 
the Wild Things Are, ” “Being John 
Malkovich”) is unwilling to accept 
such blunt extremes. Instead, “Her” 
presents one of the most plausible 
science fiction futures on screen, 
achingly familiar to a generation preoccupied with social media and 
minimalistic design, pushing just 
past the boundaries of what we’re 
accustomed to.
In the not-so-distant future Los 
Angeles, recent divorcee Theodore 
(played by a recently resurfaced 
Joaquin Phoenix) works at a company 
that digitally creates personalized love 
letters for individuals in relationships. 
Theo is exceptional at his job, but he’s 
unable to commit to a real relationship 
of his own, woefully unable to express the emotions he so eloquently pens for 
clients every day.
With a job that entails the artifi -
cial construction of feelings, a new 
technology enters Theo’s life at the 
start of the film: operating systems 
(referred to as OS’s) have become 
fully functioning artificial intelli -
gences, each with their own person -
ality and voice. Into Theo’s isolation 
steps his own OS, Samantha, voiced 
by the sultry Scarlett Johansson. 
Theo finds himself amazed that all 
the reticence and isolation he expe -
riences fades away when he is with 
his newfound love — his operating 
system.
“Her” is a movie about a sweet 
— if slight quirky — man looking 
for love, but the film refuses to pan -
der to the cliches of the love story 
genre. Because it never allows the 
viewer to forget that Samantha is 
and will always exist as an incorpo -
real voice, “Her” questions what it is 
that provides such deep happiness 
in romantic relationships. To what 
extent is falling in love artificial in Directed by  Spike Jonze
Starring  Joaquin Phoenix, Scarlett Johansson, Amy Adams
Rated R
Release Date Jan. 10Her
This heart-wrenching 21st-century love story 
examines romance in a world fueled by tech.MOVIE   REVIE W
-TINA FEY
on “Gravity”
jonah  yonker
jyonker@ucsd.eduundersound
See HER, page 9WEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | T HURSDAY , JANUARY 16, 2014 | WWW. UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 9
Native Italian chef and owner Gaetano Cicciotti serves tra -
ditional Italian cuisine in a casual, beachy setting. Located 
right off the 101 Highway, across the street from San Elijo 
State Beach, Cicciotti’s is easy to get to by bus or car. Try the “pap -
pardelle, ” a pasta dish with large, flat, homemade noodles with 
shrimp and bay scallops in a creamy pesto sauce. For dessert, don’t 
miss the chocolate and hazelnut house-made gelato.
— SHELBY NEWALLIS  
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTCICCIOTTI ’S TRATTORIA  
ITALIANA  & SEAFOOD
$15 LUNCH
FIRST  COURSE  PAPPARDELLE  GAMBERI  E SCALLOPS  
ALLA  GENOVESE
SECOND  COURSE  TARTUFO  GELATOTRY THISDBar is a four-star, New American-themed restaurant 
that’s becoming a jewel of Hillcrest with its “3 Ds” din -
ing theme: dinner, drinks and desserts. But that doesn’t 
mean their lunch is any less spectacular. Now you can try some 
of their famous dinner menu favorites at an affordable Restaurant 
Week lunch menu price! If you love Chicken n’ Waffles, you’ll love 
their Southern Fried Belgian, a kicked-up version of the classic 
southern dish.
— WILL HSU
CONTRIBUTING WRITERD BAR
$15 LUNCH
FIRST  COURSE  SOUTHERN FRIED BELGIAN
SECOND  COURSE  MOLTEN  CAKETRY THISRESTAURANT WEEK,
continued from page 7.
the first place? And what role does 
physical interaction, and sex, play in 
romance, if any at all?
Jonze refuses to provide any easy 
answers to such questions. “Her” never 
seeks to become a dystopian tale that 
warns of the looming dangers that 
technology will bring in the future. 
Instead, “Her” is a slice of an indi -
vidual’s experiences that echo the same 
experiences we face in love today.
Regarding the technicalities of 
movie-making, nothing bad can be 
said about the film. Phoenix proves 
to us that his comeback won’t be 
short-lived. Theo is at once charm -
ing, desperate and pathetic, far from 
a rom-com caricature. Dazzling cin -
ematography complements Theo’s iso -
lation and loneliness throughout the 
film, with cuts to snowfall and glowing 
dust through a window illuminating 
Phoenix’s acting abilities.
While the film’s pacing feels 
odd — the course of Theodore and 
Samantha’s relationship is at first 
sluggish, then suddenly abrupt — 
the disjointed velocity seems fitting, 
given the sudden and drastic chang -
es technology can induce overnight.
With abrupt plot-jumps charac -
teristic of the technology-saturated 
landscape we live in, “Her” is as 
close to perfect any film will come 
in 2013, a beautiful, poignant and 
occasionally hilarious meditation 
on the necessity and requisites of a 
romantic relationship.
-‐   dieter joubert
       staff  writer“Her” Forces Tech -
nology Addicts to 
)[S,QNÅK]T\9]M[ -
\QWV[IJW]\;WKQM\a
/uni25B6 HER,  from page 8
At first listen, Seattle-based 
artist Damien Jurado seems 
conventional enough; he 
fits right in with the stereotypical 
world-weary “hipster. ” Wikipedia 
claims him as a member of the 
indie-folk and Americana genres — 
and he certainly exists quite natu -
rally in that space — but that is a 
gross oversimplification of his style 
and doesn’t give the talented song -
writer enough credit. “Brothers and 
Sisters of the Eternal Sun, ” Jurado’s 
second collaboration with producer 
Richard Swift and his 11th solo 
album, smoothly blends folk with 
his trademark use of dub (a style 
which consists of reimagining pre -
existing recordings).
Superficially, the album is a nice 
listen, relying heavily on organic 
instrumentation while also dabbling 
sounds new to Jurado’s repertoire — 
notable additions are church bells, 
bongos and Wurlitzers. Jurado is 
careful to stay away from standard 
combinations, always bordering on 
experimental. This makes a lot of 
the album an indulgence in the dub 
side of things (which is where he 
might lose some casual audiences). 
But “Brothers” isn’t meant for light 
listening, anyway, and it’s once 
you understand the context of the 
album’s production that the music 
becomes truly interesting.
Jurado arranges his album as 
a kind of modern American fairy 
tale. In his words, taken from the album’s video trailer, the album is 
“about a guy who disappears on a 
search … for himself and never goes 
home, ” lending a familiar sense of 
wanderlust and a hint of longing 
to his work. Each song is rooted in 
the image of an endless highway, a 
limitless sky — any other metaphor 
that recalls the idea of an older, more 
idyllic America that looked to the 
open road for answers. “It’s my turn 
to go, ” Jurado declares in opener, 
“Magic Number, ” and in “Silver 
Timothy, ” he warns, “Don’t touch the 
ground. ”                    
Each piece is pensive and a bit 
brooding, laden with syncopated 
beats and whining synth that is 
overlaid with echoing reverb. But 
the melancholic tone is not nearly 
as bleak as his previous work. (His 
2000 release “Ghost of David” was 
a dispiriting series on deception, 
death and tragedy.) Instead, Jurado 
dares to embrace his mischievous 
side and ends on an uplifting note 
in the relatively jaunty “Suns in 
Our Mind, ” which is peppered with 
clips of snoring.                                   
Perhaps the most accessible of 
his albums, “Brothers and Sisters of 
the Eternal Sun” showcases Jurado’s 
deeply personal lyricism, expert 
weaving of genres and nostalgia for 
humbler dreams.
—     rach el h uan g
         senior  staff  writer"Brothers  and  Sisters  of  the 
Eternal  Sun" 
by   Damien  Jurado
Release Date Jan. 21
Jurado’s newest album is a polished and introspective 
addition to his already impressive discography.ALBU M   REVIE W
TH E GUAR DIA N
STANDS IN SOLIDARITY WITH
KEEP UC DAVIS’ NEWSPAPER IN PRINT AND 
SUPPORT A STUDENT FEE REFERENDUM 
#SaveTheAggieTH E  CALI FOR NIA   AGG IE
10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 16, 2014 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSClassifieds$
Gua rdian Classi/f_ieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT^^^\JZKN\HYKPHUVYNJSHZZPÄLKZ
BIKES
Centurion Ironman Expert - it runs perfectly. 
twelve speed. I dont know the exact size 
because road biking isnt my cup of tea. I’m 
selling it a very cheap price because i need 
money to pay for my school books. call or 
text at ( please note i got this pic of google 
but it does look the same as the 1 on pic) 
Listing ID: 79861257 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Classic Raleigh R600 Road Bike - $375 - 
Classic Raleigh R 600 road bike -- Brand 
new condition! --- Made in USA. Listing ID: 
79800012 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
Spin Bike- Lemond Fitness Revmaster Sport 
- LeMond Fitness Spin Bike Revmaster Sport 
model. Top of the line! Best spin bike out 
there! Super quiet and in perfect new con -
dition. Great for your garage gym or for 
inside your home. See web site for info 
regarding the bike. Price is firm. Cash only 
will be accepted.http://www.lemondfit -
ness.com/product_detail/117/revmaster-
sport. Contact Dave if interested. Listing ID: 
79800011 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information.
PETS
Australian Shepherds - $1200 - Gorgeous 
aussie pups ready for homes now. 8 weeks 
old, first shots, come with records. Very gor -
geous puppies available. They are ready, pick 
up xmas eve! This is Rudolph, an adorable 
red tri with one blue eye and one brown eye. 
1200/cash. Ready XMAS EVE! If interested in 
getting the puppy send your phone number. 
Hurry he wont last! Listing ID: 79919499 at 
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
Doberman pinscher puppies - $299 - males 
and females doberman pinscher pup -
pies 9 weeks old,1st and 2nd shots,been 
dewormed and docked tail,squarely built 
dogs with a compact, muscular body. The 
head is long V,healthy and playful puppies 
for more info please call me at619-646-2962. 
Listing ID: 79919498 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Taoveve Bichon Frise Puppies - $350 - 
Taoveve Bichon Frise Puppies.Text me at 
(508) 625-0776 for more pic. Listing ID: 
79919497 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information.
FURNITURE
Wooden Glass Cabinet - beautiful wooden 
cabinet with hand painted touches of art 
and glass doors in superb condition. the 
cabinet also has lights that can be turned 
on and off at your own liking. missing glass 
shelves but can easily be replaced. Listing ID: 
79919489 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
Brown Couch - $65 - Large Comfortable 
Couch for $65! Pick up at La Jolla International 
Gardens (near UTC and Vons)! Listing ID: 
78760198 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies 
on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.ukLevel: 1234 Level: 1234
to.ucsd.eduON CAMPUS. ONLINE. ON POIN T.
OPEN WEEK 3 ON LIBRARY WA LK • 10am-3pm 
#MoreThanAShirt
t
your vision,
our mission.
The Associated Students Store Contact outfitters@ucsd.edu for more info.Create custom apparel to promote your
student organization with Triton Outfitter's
new Made TO Order  program!www.ucsdguardian.org/advertisingBecome an  
Egg Donor
(Asian Egg Donors  
in high demand!)
Help create families,  
compensation is generous. 
Seeking reliable, healthy,  
women age 21-30. 
Call today! (877) 492-7411  
or apply online
www.westcoasteggdonation.com
.com/ucsdguardian
SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | T HURSDAY , JANUARY 16, 2014 | WWW. UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 11
percentage (50 percent). 
Beating San Francisco State will 
be important for the Tritons as the 
Gators are tied for the fifth spot in 
the CCAA, one spot higher than the 
Tritons who are tied for seventh with 
Cal State East Bay.
“That’s kind of the way our sched -
ule is set up in this league, ” UCSD 
head coach Eric Olen said. “If you 
sweep or get swept, it could make a 
big swing for you in the standings. ”
To find victory, the Tritons will 
want their star player, senior guard 
James McCann, to continue his hot 
streak. McCann averaged 22 points 
over the Tritons’ last two wins, while maintaining a team high 15.4 points 
per game and 6.1 assists per game 
throughout the season.
UCSD will also reach for help 
from the likes of sophomore forward 
Hunter Walker, who put up a career-
high 25 points last game.  
“We feel like every time we take 
the floor, if we focus on the things 
that we can control, and we play at 
a high level, then every game is an 
opportunity to move up in the stand -
ings, ” Olen said.
Both games will tip-off at 7:30 
p.m. and will be broadcast on ESPN 
Radio 1700 AM. Matt Macedo said. “In high school, 
his times were good, but not incred -
ible — but what really stuck out to 
us was the way that he was built. 
The term ‘genetic freak’ is a little 
extreme, but the guy is a very big, 
strong athlete. ”
Korth — a one-time “pudgy kid” 
and self-proclaimed late bloomer 
—/uni00A0 blossomed at UCSD. Macedo 
attributes Korth’s success to both his 
genetic gifts and his work ethic.
“The coaches all know that Nick 
is always the first one in the pool and 
the last one to leave, ” Macedo said. “I 
think a lot of people say that he gets 
by on talent, but he’s also someone 
that does everything right, in the 
water out of the water. ”
Under the UCSD swimming and 
diving coaching staff — at the time 
led by head coach Scott McGihon 
— Korth had a fantastic freshman 
season by any standard. In 2011, 
Korth won first place in five events 
in the Pacific Collegiate Swim and 
Dive Conference — the 200-meter 
individual medley, the 100-meter 
breaststroke, the 400-meter medley, 
the 200-meter breaststroke and the 
200-meter medley relay.
“ As Nationals got a little closer, I 
was incredibly nervous, ” Korth said. “I didn’t start the meet off really well, 
but managed to finish first in the 
prelims of the 200 breaststroke race. 
I was really nervous, with that target 
on my back, but I was incredibly 
excited to have won first place and a 
new national record. ”
But even Korth wasn’t immune 
to the “sophomore slump” phenom -
enon. Although the 2011 National 
Champion still won six events at the 
PCSC championships, he placed third 
in both the 100-meter and 200-meter 
breaststroke at the NCAA cham -
pionships, behind Grand Canyon 
University’s Eetu Karvonen and 
University of the Incarnate Word’s 
Thiago Parravicini in both events.
“Looking back at my sophomore 
season, I almost feel like I didn’t earn 
all the success I had in my freshman 
season, ” Korth said. “I put up good 
times, but it wasn’t good enough to 
beat the newcomers [Karvonen and 
Parravicini]. ”
This year, in his senior season, 
Korth — now a three-time All-
American and in his second season 
as co-captain with Alex Merrill — 
has a few expectations for his last 
year in the Triton uniform. 
One of three men to qualify for 
Nationals so far, Korth would like 
to see at least nine other swimmers 
accompany him to Geneva, Ohio. Individually, Korth — ranked first 
nationally in both the 100m and 
200m breaststroke — would like to 
finish the season ranked first.
“I think that Nick’s going to do 
incredible at Nationals, ” UCSD head 
women’s swimming and diving coach 
Corrie Falcon said. “I think some -
thing switched in him this last spring 
that really changed him from being a 
strong Division-II swimmer to really 
one of the top 10 or top 15 swimmers 
in the country, Division I included. ”
Like most graduating seniors, 
Korth is still unsure of his post-
graduation plans — he doesn’t know 
whether he would like to continue 
swimming, find a job and settle down 
or take a summer off to backpack 
through Europe. But as vice president 
of the Triton Athletes’ Council — an 
organization for UCSD student-ath -
letes — Korth would also consider a 
volunteer position that would allow 
him to stay close to UCSD and his 
teammates.
“Swimming has done so much 
for me — I’ve got to meet quite a few 
people, ” Korth said. “I’m grateful for 
my teammates, who I’m closer with 
than anyone else, and I’ d like more 
than anything to be able to give back. ”
 Senior Nick Korth to Prepare for 2014 National Championship
/uni25B6 SWIM MING, from page 1
readers  can  contact
RACHEL UDA     RUDa@ucsd.edu  
Basketball to Head North for Road Trip 
/uni25B6 BASKETB ALL, from page 12
readers  can  contact
brandon  yu     B2YU@ucsd.edu  
 JOHN HANAC EK /GUARDIAN F ILE PHO TO BY AUSTIN S ONG/GUARDIANSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
RACHEL  UDA
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | T HURSDAY , JANUARY 16, 2014 | WWW. UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 
“When I went home over winter 
break, I weighed myself and realized 
that I had put on 27 pounds, ” Korth 
said. “I told my mom that I was unhap -
py, missed competition and missed hav -
ing goals. ”
Korth’s roommate at the time, Martin 
Vanek — who was also recruited by 
Irvine — started putting together plans 
to transfer to a school that would let him 
swim. UCSD was on his short list, and 
Korth figured he might as well tag along. 
Having visited UCSD, Korth already 
liked the school, liked the coaches and 
liked the program.
Along with Vanek, the former Irvine 
Anteater was accepted to UCSD in July, 
and he had to work hard to get back 
in shape in time for the preseason in 
September.
“When Nick came to us, he was 
already a very gifted athlete, ” UCSD 
head men’s swimming and diving coach 
BASKETBALLSWI M M I N G
Men’s Basketball to Face Sonoma and San Francisco This Weekend
BY   B r a n d o n   Y u
STAFF  Writer
After a five-game home stand, 
the UCSD men’s basketball team 
will return to the road, travel -
ing to Sonoma State on Friday, Jan. 
17, followed by a game against San 
Francisco State on Saturday, Jan. 18. 
The Tritons will enter both contests 
hoping to build momentum follow -
ing their last two games — both 
impressive wins — against Cal State 
East Bay and Cal State Monterey Bay.
    Facing Sonoma State, the Tritons 
will look to dominate against the 
struggling Seawolves who have yet to 
win a conference game (1–11 over -
all, 0–8 in the California Collegiate 
Athletic Association).
However, UCSD will look forward 
to a tougher matchup against the 
Gators at San Francisco State (7–4 
overall, 5–3 in the CCAA) the follow -
ing day. The Tritons will have to shut 
down the Gators’ top player, senior 
guard Nefi Perdomo, who leads the 
conference in points per game (21.7), 
steals per game (2.2) and three point 
See BASKETBALL, page 11
One of the most prolific swimmers 
in UCSD history, senior Nick Korth — 
a 2011 NCAA National Champion in 
the 200-meter breaststroke — almost 
never was.
In the summer of 2009, Korth was 
primed to begin his collegiate career 
with Division-I UC Irvine. Coming out 
of high school, Korth was recruited by 
schools like UC Santa Barbara, Cal Poly 
and UCSD, but he ultimately decided on 
Irvine, which promised him the most 
generous scholarship.
But four years later, Korth can still 
recall the day when he heard UC Irvine’s 
swim team had folded.
“They cut their program the sum -
mer before I started school, on July 
29th, ” Korth said. “They still honored 
everyone’s scholarships, so it looked like 
I would just be going to UC Irvine as an 
average student. ”
But after his first semester at Irvine, 
Korth was unhappy out of the water.EVOLUTION OF AN ATHLETE
BY   R A C H E L  U D A   SPORTS  EDITORPHO TO COURTESY UC SAN DI EGO PUBLICATI ONS
PHO TO BY AUSTIN S ONG/GUARDIAN200 BREASTSTROKE  
NCAA National Champion
400 MEDLEY RELAY  
NCAA Third Place
PCSC CHAMPION  
200 IM 
100 breast
400 relay
200 breast200 BREASTSTROKE
 NCAA Third Place
100 BREASTSTROKE  
NCAA Third Place
PCSC CHAMPION
200 breast
100 breast
200 IM200 BREASTSTROKE
NCAA Second Place
PCSC CHAMPION
200 breastNational Champion Nick Korth on his four years at UCSD. 
See SWIMMING, page 112010–2011 2011–2012 2012–2013MEN’S VOLLEYBALL
WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
MEN’S BASKETBALL
BASEBALL
FENCING1/16
1/17
1/17
1/17
1/17AT Cal Baptist
AT Sonoma State
AT Sonoma State
VS San Diego Christian
AT North American CupUPCOMING
UCSD
GAMES