There is a strong inverse correla -
tion between daily stock returns and 
hospital admissions for psychologi -
cal conditions — including anxiety, 
panic disorders or major depression 
— according to a recent publication 
presented by UCSD finance profes -
sors during the annual meeting of the 
American Economic Association.
UCSD Rady School of Management 
professors Joseph Engelberg and 
Christopher Parsons explored how 
stock prices impact investor psychol -
ogy in their paper, “Worrying about 
the stock market: Evidence from hos -
pital admissions. ”
“ A lot of behavioral finance is 
about how your mind affects markets, 
and very little talks about the other 
way around, ” Engelberg said during 
an interview with Bloomberg News. “We have evidence of causality coming 
from markets coming back to investor 
psychology, and that’s been a missing 
component in terms of empirical find -
ings in a lot of prior research. ”
A way to examine real-time psy -
chological well-being experienced by 
investors is to look at the rate at which 
patients from a large population are 
admitted to hospitals due to mental 
health conditions. 
“First, we obtain admission records 
for every California hospital for each 
day from 1983 until 2011, ” Engelberg 
and Parsons said. 
According to data provided by 
California’s Office of Statewide Health 
Planning and Development, more than 
11,000 residents are hospitalized each 
day on average.
By taking portfolios of stock returns 
and performing time-series regres -
sions, the researchers investigated 
how the stock market impacts investor 
psychology. Their data spans a bulk 
of three decades, in which they con -
cluded that hospitalization rose when 
stock shares fell, and more people are 
hospitalized due to mental conditions.PUT TED 
TO BED
UCSD visual arts professor 
Benjamin Bratton criticized 
TED Talks for being shallow 
and ineffective at a TEDx -
SanDiego conference last 
month. Now, his TED talk 
has gone viral.
CURRENT  CURRENCY
bitcoin   blow s   up   online
opinion,   P age  4
TUESDAY
H 79 L 54WEDNESDAY
H 75 L 52
THURSDAY
H 73 L 57FRIDAY
H 73 L 57
FORE CAST
VERBATI M
Most of my 
childhood 
chores 
involved 
turning 
cleaning 
tasks into a glorified 
game of Stratego.”
- Kelvin Noronha
THINKING CAPS
OPINION , PAGE 4
INSIDE
Lights and Sirens  ............ 3
Quick Takes  .................... 4
Electric Bikes  .................. 8
Crossword  .................... 11
Sports  ........................... 12“
FeA TURE S,  P AG E  6
Winter Break Cut to Two Weeks
University of California Registrars have 
approved changes to the 2014–15 aca -
demic calendar in response to con -
flicts with the Jewish High Holy Days. All UCs 
operating on a quarter system will officially 
begin their fall quarter on Sept. 29 and start 
instruction on Thursday of Week 0, Oct. 2 
— a week later than when Fall Quarter 2013 
began. Additionally, this year’s winter vacation 
will be shortened to two weeks to compensate for the loss of classroom time, beginning on 
Dec. 20 and ending on Jan. 4. 
According to a Jan. 14 Los Angeles Times 
article, the calendar change was enacted in 
accordance with the UC system’s “Policy for 
Addressing Religious Holiday Conflicts with 
Residence Hall ‘Move-In’ Days. ” Implemented 
by former UC President Robert Dynes in 
2007, it provides guidelines for addressing 
conflicts between campus move-in dates and 
major religious holidays, with particular focus 
on Rosh Hashanah and Y om Kippur.
“Representatives of the Jewish community and members of the California Legislature 
have expressed a desire for the university to 
avoid the conflicts that have arisen between 
fall residence hall move-in days and the 
Jewish High Holy Days of Rosh Hashanah 
and Y om Kippur, ” Dynes said in a letter to the 
UC Chancellors.
Rosh Hashanah and Y om Kippur are the 
Jewish New Y ear and Day of Atonement, 
respectively. Traditionally, it is a time of 
prayer, reflection and repentance. Based on a In response to complaints of conflicts with Jewish holidays, the UC system approved calendar 
changes, resulting in a later starting date and a shorter winter vacation for Fall Quarter 2014.
See CALENDAR , page 3PHOTO BY ALWIN SZETO / GUARDIAN
CA M PUS
Researchers Find Correlation 
Between Stocks and HealthUCSD Establishes New 
Center for V eterinary Sciences 
The UCSD study 
investigated stock prices 
and how they impact 
investor psychology.
BY  Justine  Liang    staff writer
See STOCKS , page 3The center will study transmittable animal diseases.UCSD 
RECEIVESRECORDNUMBER OF 
APPLICANTSFull coverage in 
Thursday’s issue.
HITTING A HIGH NOTE:  Two UCSD a cappella groups placed in the top three teams at the 
International Championship of Collegiate A Cappella West Quarterﬁnals last weekend at 
the Mandeville Auditorium. First place went to co-ed group The Beat (pictured).
UC    S Y STEM
SCIENCE  &  TECHNO LOGY
The UCSD School of Medicine 
established a new Center for 
Veterinary Sciences and Comparative 
Medicine in Sorrento Valley last 
week, where scientists, physicians 
and veterinarians study animal 
diseases that are transmittable to 
humans.
By examining diseases transmit -
ted from animals to humans, oth -
erwise known as zoonotic diseases, 
scientists can understand better the 
same diseases in humans. Animal 
care can be translated easily to human 
care. Associate professor of medicine 
at UCSD’s School of Medicine Joseph 
Vinetz is one of the inaugural faculty 
members at CVSCM.
“I study animal models of dif -
ferent diseases such as leptospirosis 
in Peru, which is a disease endemic 
in the Amazon and affects over one 
million people a year with its 5 to 20 
percent fatality rate, ” Vinetz said. 
Leptospirosis is spread from bac -teria in animal urine to humans. It 
is commonly due to contaminated 
water and leads to flu-like symptoms, 
eventually ending with liver damage 
and renal failure, according to the 
U.S. Center of Disease Control.
CVSCM includes a faculty of 25 
scientists, doctors and veterinarians 
from UCSD, Scripps Institution of 
Oceanography, Scripps Research 
Institute, Salk Institute for Biological 
Studies, the San Diego Zoo and Sea 
World.
“The importance of our research 
is the impact in public health, the 
interesting science and the advance 
experimental studies that can be 
gained, ” Vinetz said. “By studying 
animals and animal models, we can 
gain insights to understand patho -
genesis, diagnosis, vaccines and ther -
apeutics.
The founding director of CVSCM 
is Peter Ernst, Ph.D., professor of 
pathology at UCSD School of 
Medicine. The UC system has an  BY  Justine  Liang     staff writer
See VETERINARY , page 3BY   Andrew   Huang     staff writerVOLUME 47, ISSUE 25 TUESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2014  WWW. UCSDGUARDIAN.O RG
PHOTO  COURTESY  TEDXSANDIEGO2 THE U CSD GUARDIAN  | TUESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2014 | WWW. UCSDGUARDIAN.O RG NE WS
BIRDLAND By Rebekah Dyer
GARAMOND By Jeffrey Lau
BRIE FSb y   M ekala   Neelakant an,   Alek sandra   Konst antinovic
and   Gabriella   Fleischman       Associate News Editors
/uni25B6 UCSD Ranked 14th Best Value 
University: Kiplinger’s Personal 
Finance magazine ranked UCSD as 
the nation’s 14th best value public 
university this year. UCSD was espe -
cially commended for its availability 
of Pell grants to low income students 
and its four-year graduation rates.
Chancellor Pradeep K. Khosla 
praised the university’s continued 
commitment to social mobility.
“We are pleased UC San Diego 
continues to be recognized for pro -
viding a world-class education that 
is accessible and affordable to stu -
dents of all backgrounds, ” Khosla said 
in a statement. “ At UC San Diego, 
we demonstrate how education can 
be one of the biggest enablers for 
upward social mobility. ”
/uni25B6 C i t y  V o l u n t e e r s  B e g i n  T r e e -
Planting Initiative: Volunteers plant -
ed 2,000 trees along the San Diego 
River trail in Santee on Monday. The 
initiative was sponsored by Takeda 
California, a bio-tech company, in 
conjunction with the San Diego River Park Foundation and the City 
of Santee.
Takeda Company officials said 
they hoped to plant 20 times more 
trees than the company will use in 
paper goods next year. The elder -
berry, lemonade berry and oak trees 
were planted at the newly designated 
Walker Preser ve.
The preserve is set to open a trail 
for hikers, joggers and mountain bik -
ers in the future.
/uni25B6 Water Main Breaks in National 
City:  Residents in the South Bay and 
National City evacuated their homes 
following a water main break that 
flooded main roadways on Sunday 
morning. The break caused one-foot 
flooding along 45th Street and 43rd 
Street, entering neighboring homes 
and apartment complexes. 
Damages caused by the cast iron 
pipe stopped water service to residents 
along 45th street and Mayberry Street 
for several hours, although crew mem -
bers were able to restore service the 
same evening./uni25B6 UCSD Women’s Health: Becker’s 
Hospital Review listed UC San Diego 
Health System as among the top 100 
hospitals for women’s health last week. 
There are many exemplary services 
and programs aimed towards women, 
including experts in gestational diabe -
tes and high-risk pregnancies. 
The in-hospital Birth Center is the 
only one on the West Coast that offers 
nurse-midwives and volunteer doula. 
The resources for breastfeeding moth -
ers were recognized by Baby-Friendly 
USA, the neonatal intensive care unit 
in the same facility as labor and deliv -
ery services, and the fetal surgery pro -
gram is nationally recognized. 
Services for women not involved 
in pregnancy and birth include blood 
pressure and cholesterol screen -
ing, pelvic exams and pap smears, 
breast exams and bone density scans. 
Programs include the Maternal 
Weight and Wellness Program, The 
Menopause Health Program and the 
Women’s Pelvic Medicine Center.
/uni25B6 CIRM Awards Disease Grant: The California Institute of Regenerative 
Medicine awarded professor of medi -
cine and Deputy Director of Research 
Operations at UC San Diego Moores 
Cancer Center Thomas J. Kipps a $4.18 
million grant. 
This is one of six “Disease 
Team” awards, totaling $61 million, 
approved by the Independent Citizens’ 
Oversight Committee. These were 
funded to move therapies from lab to 
clinical trials. 
The goal of Kipps’s research is 
to find therapies that target proteins 
found only on the surface of cancer 
stem cells.
/uni25B6 H u n d r e d s  A t t e n d  Winter GameFest: 
UCSD’s ninth annual Winter 
GameFest took place last weekend in 
the Price Center East and West ball -
rooms, drawing hundreds of attendees. 
The video game festival — organized 
by the Sixth College Tech Committee 
— was one of the largest of its kind 
in Southern California, offering over 
$5,000 in prizes for various video game 
tournaments set up on 200 computers.The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and 
Thursdays during the academic year by UCSD  students 
and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this 
newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, 
without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2014, all 
rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible 
for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The 
views expressed herein do not necessarily represent 
the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of 
California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is 
funded by advertising. The sex room remodel.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Emily Ku 
Advertising Director  
Noelle Batema
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Page Layout
Dorothy Van, Flavia Salvadori, Tao Tao, Natalia Herret, 
Dorothy Lee, Joselynn OrdazLaira Martin
Zev Hurwitz
Allie Kiekhofer
Gabriella Fleischman
Aleksandra Konstantinovic
Mekala Neelakantan
Lauren Koa
Kelvin Noronha
Rachel Uda
Stacey Chien
Sydney Reck
Vincent Pham
Jacqueline Kim
Brian Monroe
Taylor Sanderson
Amber Shroyer
Zoë Mc Cracken
Jenny Park
Jeffrey Lau
Rachel Huang
Claire Yee
Philip Jia
Madeline Mann
Dorothy VanEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
Deputy Managing Editor
Associate News Editors
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
Associate Features Editor
Lifestyle Editor
A&E Editor
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Associate Copy Editors
Web Editor
Training & Development
Social Media Coordinator
Copy Readers
Clara Chao, Rosina Garcia, Andrew Huang,
Susan Shamoon
Editorial Assistants
Rita Eritsland, Shelby Newallis, Morgan Jong, Soumya KurnoolNE WS  THE U CSD GUARDIAN  | TUESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2014 | WWW. UCSDGUARDIAN.O RG 3
“It’s a very straightforward result, ” 
Engelberg said during the American 
Economic Association meeting. While 
his research definitely provides cor -
relations between hospital admittance 
and stock levels, any causal effects are 
left unresolved.  
“The effect is particularly strong for conditions related to mental health 
such as anxiety, suggesting that con -
cern over shocks to future, in addition 
to current, consumption influences an 
investor’s instantaneous perception of 
well-being, ” Engelberg and Parsons 
said in the publication.
While people admitted to the hos -
pital during a stock market plunge may 
not necessarily own stock, the stress may be an overall effect caused by the 
economic plunge at large. Engelberg 
and Parsons’ paper provides a corre -
lational interpretation of data, which 
may provide insight for stressed people 
to watch out for their own health due 
to the economy.lunar cycle, they begin on Sept. 24 this 
year, which would otherwise coincide 
with the beginning of Week 0.
Sam Hauss, president of the 
Union of Jewish Students at UCSD, 
explained that the High Holidays are 
a significant part of the Jewish cal -
endar and that he, and other Jewish 
students, often struggle with balanc -
ing the holidays with the start of the 
school year. 
“Y ou reevaluate how you live — 
what can and can’t be done — and 
moving in and classes conflict with 
those guidelines, ” Hauss said. “The 
university acknowledging the prob -
lem is something we’re happy about. ”
The schedule change has been met 
with mixed reactions from the stu -
dent body. 
“[The conflict] gets difficult, espe -cially during Week 1, ” Vice President 
of UCSD’s United Jewish Observance 
Jonah Saidian said. “We can’t go to 
school, we can’t take notes. I thought 
[the change] was a great relief. ”
Warren College junior Max Shen 
also agrees with the shift overall.
“I personally would be able to take 
better advantage of one more week of 
summer than one more week of win -
ter break because I would be able to 
work harder, play harder and overall 
use the time better, ” Shen said.
However, other students, like 
Warren College graduate student 
Jeffrey Yuan, are less happy with the 
calendar change.
“I guess that it’s a little inconve -
nient to have school start even later 
than it already does in September, ” 
Yuan said. “ Also, travel plans for win -
ter break will definitely be tighter and 
more expensive because they’ll be closer to Christmas. ”
Revelle College freshman Karen 
Medgyesy concurs.
“The problem with a shorter break 
for me is that I don’t get to see my 
family as much, ” Medgyesy said. “ A 
lot of students are in-state and can 
go home every weekend, but that’s 
not the case for me since I’m from 
Colorado. It’s already a hassle to travel 
and fly home, as well as a lot of 
money, so it’s a bummer I can’t see my 
family for as long. ”
This is the first time that changes 
to the calendar have been made since 
the UC policy’s inception in 2007, and 
academic schedules should return to 
normal after 2014, given that they do 
not interfere with any other religious 
holidays.
DEADLINE: FEBRUARY 3, 2 014
Application:  http://students.ucsd.edu/ 
(On TritonLink in toolbox section, under finance tools – select Financial Aid to access the online application)Undergraduate Summer 2 014
Research Scholarship6,.#0&+.#/#.!&/!&,)./&'-/,$			
will be awarded for Summer 2014
61#/0',+/#-1!/"#"16

Undergraduate Continuing/Current Student
!&,)./&'---)'!0',+$,.	
	

6,.#0&+		/!&,)./&'-/,$
			0,			
2')) #2."#"$,.	
	
!"#*'!4#.
61#/0',+//!&,)./&'-/1!/"#"16
	LI GHT S  &  SIREN SLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edu.
Friday, Jan. 10
10:25 p.m. to 10:35 p.m.: Battery
The subject struck a nurse in the 
forearm near Campus Point Drive. 
Report taken.
11:53 p.m.: Vandalism
Police found graffiti on the 
west stairwell of Mandeville 
Center with an estimated dam -
age cost of $200. Report taken.  
Saturday, Jan. 11
2:05 a.m.: Citizen Contact
The subject activated a fire extin -
guisher in Harlan Hall. Report taken.
Sunday, Jan. 12
3:40 p.m.: Injury
The subject slipped in Frankfurter 
Hall, possibly breaking a leg. 
Transported to hospital by medics.  
Monday, Jan. 13
2:12 a.m.: Citizen Contact
The subjects reported possible stalk -
ing by a roommate in the Village 
West Building 1. Report taken.
11:57 p.m.: Suspicious Person
Police found a transient by Sunshine 
Market. Information only.
Tuesday, Jan. 14
12:23 a.m.: Citizen Contact
A resident was found in a dumpster 
in Parking Lot 203. Checks OK.
8:37 p.m.: Fire
Subjects reported a trash can on fire 
at the Center for Magnetic Recording. 
Checks OK — subjects put out fire.9:26 p.m.: Welfare Check
The subject was screaming at the 
intersection on Voigt Drive and 
Campus Point Drive. Unable to locate.
Wednesday, Jan. 15
2:37 p.m.: Animal Call
Medium-sized dogs were tied up at 
the Cardiovascular Center. Cancelled 
before dispatch.
4:48 p.m.: Violent Psych Subject
The subject was yelling and waving a 
stick in the Village East 2. Report taken.  
Thursday, Jan. 16
2:26 a.m.: Information
A subject was reported to be playing 
with a laser in Tioga Hall. Unable to 
locate.
11:00 p.m.: Gang or Terrorist 
Threat
The subject received threatening 
text messages near the Central Mesa 
Apartments. Report taken.
1:56 p.m.: Welfare Check
The subject was crying and scream -
ing near Eucalyptus Grove Lane. 
Gone on arrival.
3:51 p.m.: Welfare Check
The subject’s electric wheelchair lost 
power, requiring police assistance. 
Referred to other agency — ADA.
11:44 p.m.: Citizen Contact
The subject was yelling at a custodial 
staff member at the Rady School of 
Management. Report taken.
 — GABRIELL A FLE ISC HM AN
Associate News Editor  Research Shows Stock-Related Stress May Cause Heart Attacks
/uni25B6 STOCKS  from page 1New Academic Schedule Met With Mixed Student Reactions
/uni25B6 CALENDAR,  from page 1
readers can contact
Justine   liang     JJL096@ucsd.edu readers can contact
andrew   huang     aehuang@ucsd.edu 
established veterinary medical center 
at UCSD, which is a collaboration 
between UCSD Health Sciences and 
the school of veterinary medicine at 
UC Davis. His vision is to advance 
the care of animal and human 
research to understand the biology 
of disease. Scientists such as Vinetz contribute to the center’s cause by 
the unique translational aspect of 
zoonotic research from animals to 
humans.
CVSCM scientists investigate 
other animal diseases: mucosal 
infection and immune responses, 
gastrointestinal ailments, parasitic 
transmission and neurodegenerative 
diseases such as mad cow disease, caused by prions, or misfolded pro -
teins.
“We’re going to save the world, ” 
Vinetz said. The scientists of CVSCM 
provide cutting- edge research that 
intends to make zoonotic diseases 
understandable across species./uni25B6 VETERINARY  from page 1CVSCM Scientists Investigate Illnesses Like Mad Cow Disease
readers can contact
Justine   liang     JJL096@ucsd.edu GUARDIAN INFO SESSION
FRIDAY, JAN. 24
5 P .M.
2ND FLOOR OF THE OLD 
STUDENT CENTEROPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
LAUREN  KOA
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TU ESDAY , JANUARY 21, 2014 | WWW. UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 
Effort Does 
Not Always 
Have to Be 
A Burden
Trips to RIMAC never fail to 
be brutal. Due to my butter -
fly-like upper body strength 
and feeble motivation, I end up 
halfheartedly wheezing through 
routines. I swear to myself that I 
will not be so stupid in the future 
— that the best way to avoid “the 
burn” and all the sweaty t-shirts is 
to just skip out on gym days alto -
gether. But then two days pass, and 
I find myself back in the same spot, 
wondering why I’m putting myself 
through it yet again.
Of course, a little bit of this 
strange compulsion has to do with 
desire for endorphins, the pain-
quenching, happiness-causing 
chemicals that our brains release 
when we exercise. But more broad -
ly, workouts fall into that interest -
ing category of things that I do in 
spite of despising them. There are 
a lot of similar phenomena for me. 
Although my room resembles a 
hurricane impact zone, I will find 
myself shockingly willing to clean 
it up at regular intervals. It’s not 
that I’m particularly fond of actu -
ally folding my clothes and vacu -
uming the rug. Rather, some very 
prescient part of me knows that the 
work is well worth it for the satis -
faction I’ll get at the job’s end.
Although some parts of our 
brains are continually seeking 
instant reward for our efforts, wiser 
neurons in our decision-making 
frontal cortices are the ones doing 
the rainy-day planning. When our 
emotions try to get the best of us 
and steer us toward the dessert sec -
tion, it’s the frontal cortex that slaps 
us on the wrist and forces us to 
pledge nutritional responsibility.
The same goes for many tasks 
that we perform on a frequent 
basis: biking up steep hills or eat -
ing salads. Although we might do 
each against our “better judgment” 
and loathe every second of it, it 
ultimately helps us, and we come to 
repeat the process. To a point, even 
studying for organic chemistry or 
physics for days on end can become 
manageable — we just need to feel 
a sufficient sense of accomplish -
ment after we close the books for 
the day.
However, there are easier ways 
to end up successful. When con -
fronted with a jaw-droppingly 
dislikeable task, we don’t neces -
sarily need our frontal cortex to 
strong-arm us into getting it done. 
Despite the inherent terribleness of, 
say, mopping the floor, it’s still pos -
sible to turn it into a game, appeal -
ing to the impulse-driven parts of 
our brain. Most of my childhood 
chore hours involved turning clean -
ing tasks into glorified games of 
Stratego. Granted, it’s not exactly 
PlayStation, but most games are 
not objectively different from work. 
There’s a goal and a lot of deter -
mined effort to get there. Though 
either one may lead us to rage quit, 
those with a competitive streak can 
end up finding certain work to be 
even borderline enjoyable.
So when it comes down to the 
more difficult aspects of life — con -
suming healthy food, making the 
bed or going to Tuesday/Thursday 
classes — have faith in your brain’s 
ability to do the right thing; it’s got 
your back.Bitcoin’s potential for international trade is 
nearly limitless, as it is so easy to transfer world -
wide. Bitcoin is a decentralized cryptocurrency and 
cannot be manipulated by national governments; 
this allows the public to store their wealth without 
any regulation other than how much people want 
to pay for it. This approach gives users around the 
world the much-needed freedom to use a common 
currency and trade it freely. 
According to National Geographic, one of the 
biggest potentials for bitcoin internationally is in 
money transfers and remittances, which migrant 
workers use to send money to their families over -
seas. While companies who charge service fees 
such as Western Union and MoneyGram, currently 
handle wire transfers, bitcoin performs the same 
service for a negligible fee. Using bitcoin instead 
of traditional wire transfer could benefit migrant 
workers who use remittances extensively to sup -
port their families in poorer countries, as it could 
save them up to 15 percent on fees.
The public is also taking advantage of bit -
coin’s independence from typical government-
controlled money supplies to secure their sav -
ings. Europe’s economic crisis led Spanish citi -
zens in March 2013 to experiment with Bitcoin 
as a way to divest their investments in foreign 
banks. Overseas accounts in danger of being 
nationalized led much of the Spanish public to 
transfer their assets out to bitcoin.
Bitcoin proliferation will take time, as some 
question the value of owning something so novel, 
but it is increasingly viable as financial institutions, 
countries and individuals catch on to this new trend 
and harness its potential as a global currency. 
— HUGO WONG
Contributing WriterInadequate Security and Complexity 
Prevent Bitcoin’s Long-Term ViabilityGrowing Support Legitimizes  
Bitcoin As a Valid Form of  CapitalDecentralized Currency Effectively 
Facilitates International Trade
Bitcoin is only the first of the emerging 
online currencies that are here to stay. Although 
it may seem strange that cryptocurrency found -
ers have made a profit just by inventing a new 
form of money, Bitcoin works because a large 
amount of people have assigned it value and 
accepted it as a viable currency. 
Bitcoins have just as much intrinsic value 
as U.S. dollars, which is to say, none. The value 
is derived from how people treat bits of paper 
or lines of code. Whether a U.S. dollar or a 
bitcoin, people perceive each unit as more valu -
able than the resources used to create it, simply 
because they know other people will accept it in 
exchange for goods out of convenience. 
Any arbitrary unit could potentially serve as 
a form of currency if people assign value to it, 
and more people treat bitcoins as money every 
day. The economic news site CoinDesk reported 
that the number of businesses accepting bitcoins 
increased 81 percent this past November. As 
more people willingly take bitcoins in exchange 
for goods, services or other currencies, bitcoins 
become legitimate and gain a wider sphere of 
use as an alternative form of money.
The Columbian already reports that over 
20,000 online businesses currently deal in 
bitcoins, including Overstock.com, PayPal, 
OkCupid and WordPress. Richard Branson, 
chairman of Virgin Group, which consists of 
over 400 companies, also voiced his support and 
investment in Bitcoin.
At this rate, Bitcoin is secure on its way to 
becoming the first independent currency of the 
digital age to reach mainstream acceptance.
—  THOMAS FINN
Staff WriterTo the average citizen, Bitcoin is a blind “just-
trust-us” system. Bitcoin’s complicated security 
infrastructure is not only complex, but is also 
ineffective in providing a safe network for finan -
cial investment. Bitcoin’s security solution acts to 
prevent the manipulation of Bitcoin code but still 
proves unsuccessful in providing the safety the 
cryptocurrency needs.
In the 1990s, many digital currency systems 
were created but eventually failed because they 
lacked secure and reliable infrastructures for digi -
tally transferring money. Their biggest problem 
was preventing double-spending — when a user 
manipulates code so they can spend the same coin 
over and over.  
Two decades down the line, and these online 
currencies still have strides to go in terms of secu -
rity. Bitcoin’s mining solution, to implement puz -
zles to prevent double spending, is still inadequate 
and makes the system vulnerable both to manipu -
lation and hackers. Supposedly, when a person 
uses the hardware of a computer to solve puzzles, 
the bitcoin code is working in the background to 
prevent double-spending and increase security. 
However, persisting reports of successful double-
spending attempts prove otherwise. Additionally, 
Dogecoin, a derivative of Bitcoin that uses Bitcoin’s 
mining system, was hacked on Dec. 25, 2013, 
resulting in the theft of 21 million dogecoins. 
Ultimately, users should think twice before 
entrusting their savings to the rather-mysterious 
Bitcoin world. Cryptocurrencies’ general security 
flaws mixed with Bitcoin’s lack of clarity make 
Bitcoin an unappealing alternative to the reliability 
of conventional banks. 
— AYAT AMIN
Contributing Writer
QUICK  T AKESNEW DIGITAL PAYMENT NETWORKS, SUCH AS “BITCOIN” AND “DOGECOIN,” ALLOW USERS TO MAKE DIRECT PEER-
TO-PEER AND BUSINESS TRANSACTIONS BY TRADING VIRTUAL COINS FOR REAL CURRENCY AND SERVICES.
LIKE US ON 
FACEBOOK!
WWW.FACEBOOK.COM/UCSDGUARDIAN
Kel vin  Noronha   
knoronha@ucsd.eduThinking Caps
ILLUSTRATI ON BY JENNY  PARK /GUARDIANIn a recent Jan. 17, 2014, ruling, 
the U.S. 9th Circuit Court of 
Appeals held that protections 
for bloggers are actually equal to 
those of journalists, creating new 
guidelines for online writers.
The recent ruling followed an 
appeal for a 2011 case between 
blogger Crystal Cox and Oregon 
financial company Obsidian Finance 
Group. In San Francisco, co-founder 
Kevin Padrick sued Cox for numer -
ous defamatory comments and false 
blog posts accusing Padrick’s com -
pany of fraud. On Jan. 17, UCLA law 
professor Eugene Volokh took Cox’s 
case to the appeals court in San 
Francisco, where the court ruled for 
a retrial in the blogger’s favor. 
Federal Appeals Court Judge 
Andrew Hurwitz’s new ruling right -
fully gives individuals the freedom of 
speech alongside the responsibility 
for fact checking and doing research 
before creating posts that could be 
construed as defamatory or accusa -
tory. While its evident that freelance 
writers are entitled to their own 
views, they can now also be sued if a 
court finds negligence, libel or abso -
lute malice in the posts or writing 
they produce and publish online. 
Though many consider the case 
as a major win for bloggers and free -
dom of speech advocates, the court 
ruling establishes clear-cut rules 
for bloggers, in terms of both their 
rights and limitations. Contrary to 
popular belief, the ruling does not 
completely favor the blogging com -
munity. The rule does not allow the 
public to have complete freedom to 
post absolute fraudulent or defama -
tory claims, but rather justifiably 
holds bloggers responsible for the 
same standards as journalists. This ruling is a huge divergence 
from what had long been blurred 
lines and assumptions drawn from 
court precedents. Bloggers have 
typically assumed the same afore -
mentioned rights and protections 
that the Supreme Court established 
to protect journalists’ freedom 
speech in the press in the 1974 
Gertz v. Robert Welch Inc. case. 
But before last week, no federal 
judge or court had ever specifically 
ruled that bloggers or personal 
freelance writers were protected by 
the same rules. 
Now that virtually anyone has 
the opportunity to upload and 
publish content on the Internet, 
it’s about time that the courts 
established appropriate guidelines. 
According to a 2013 Pew Research 
Center study, 50 percent of 
Americans now use both Internet 
publications and blogs as their 
main news sources, instead of print 
newspapers or television programs. 
Additionally, the report noted that 
American use of social media sites 
like Twitter and Facebook as news 
outlets doubled from 2010 to 2012. 
These new standards make any 
online user liable for their careless 
comments, posts and articles found 
on any of these media.
As society shifts toward becom -
ing more reliant on online media 
to stay both informed and express 
their opinions, it only seems rea -
sonable to prevent bloggers from 
abusing their First Amendment 
rights. The ruling will set a strong 
precedent that enables a broader 
practice of the freedom of speech 
and gives bloggers long-overdue 
responsibilities.O P INION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TU ESDAY , JANUARY 21, 2014 | WWW. UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 5
Register  online  at
http://ccl.ucsd.edu/registration/Consciousness of the world around us is an 
invaluable skill for whatever career field students 
pursue. The goals of TEDI are to develop students' 
critical consciousness of social justice and equity 
minded leadership, and to build a network of 
inclusive, equity minded student leaders on 
campus. The program consists of a retreat, with 
four follow-up programs, workshops, or events 
selected by the participant to supplement 
learning. TEDI is co-presented by
UCSD Associated Students.
Saturday,  Jan  25
9:00  AM  -  3:00  PM
@  Huerta/Vera-Cruz  Room
SOLVE FOR X By Philip Jia
GOT ISSUES ?
WE WANT TO 
HEAR ABOU T IT!
SEND IN A LETTER TO THE EDITOR BY EMAILING
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG2Responsibility Accompanies 
New Blogger Privileges
BY   l a u r e n   ko a   opinion editor
readers can contact
lauren  koa     lkoa@ucsd.edu 6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TU ESDAY , JANUARY 21, 2014 | WWW. UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
ST ACEY  CHIEN
features@ucsdguardian.org
When a TEDx organizer offered Benjamin H. Bratton, 
associate professor of visual arts at UCSD, the opportu -
nity to speak at the TEDxSanDiego event, he respond -
ed, “The only TED talk I would do is one about why I 
don’t like TED Talks. ”
Bratton’s talk, titled “What’s Wrong with TED Talks?” addressed 
what he sees as TED’s oversimplification of ideas and shallow, quick-fix 
solutions to complex problems. He believes that while TED is devised to 
inform the public of innovative technology and design, it has turned into 
conferences filled with emptiness, where no meaning or information is 
truly gathered. 
“Instead of [a speaker’s] interest and desire being channeled into 
something that may shift terms of the conversation, [TED] has turned 
into this empty experience, ” Bratton said in an interview with the 
UCSD Guardian.
Bratton explained that since TED is a very popular part of techno -
logical media, it has become a kind of template for technology in which 
people must talk about brilliant ideas in a “TED Talks” way.
“TED has become such a dominant format that it has taken up way 
too much of [people’s] conversations, ” Bratton said. “Saying something 
bad about TED is like saying something bad about kittens or ice cream — 
I mean, who doesn’t like it?”
Bratton said TED doesn’t stand up to its name.
“TED, of course, stands for Technology, Entertainment, Design, and 
I’ll talk a bit about all three, ” he said during his TED talk. “But I think TED 
actually stands for ‘middle-brow mega-church infotainment. ’”
Bratton explained that his talk intended to expose the increasingly 
trivial context that he believes TED has come to support and to challenge 
the general conception that all of its talks are meaningful and inspiring.
“[I wanted] to basically, in a way, pop the bubble of TED, ” Bratton 
said. “[From] watching over a period of time, the way in which [speakers] 
would talk about and communicate these issues of technology and design 
[has] gotten dumber and dumber and shallower and shallower. It [has] 
just diverted into this placebo. ”
Bratton’s talk has earned him praise and attention — he’s been inter -
viewed and featured in several popular news outlets. An article about his 
talk published in Britain’s the Guardian rose to the most read piece on the 
site after it was released on Dec. 30, 2013. The video of his talk received 
over 100,000 views, and his talk received 20 “like” votes to every dislike, 
according to Bratton.
“The reaction to it was much bigger and stronger than I anticipated, ” 
Bratton said. “[I received] hundreds of emails saying, ‘Thanks for doing 
this, ’ ‘I’m glad somebody finally said this’ [or] ‘I appreciated that you had 
the courage to stand up and say this. ’ I really touched a nerve that was kind 
of waiting there to be touched. ”
Although the support he’s gotten demonstrates that his points of criti -
cism resonate with many, Bratton still hopes that those who disagree with 
him will recognize the condescending way in which he believes TED 
conveys ideas and technology. 
Despite his outspoken opposition to the current trend of TED Talks, 
Bratton expressed indifference regarding the future of TED.
“To be honest, I don’t care what happens to TED Talks — it wouldn’t 
bother me in the least, ” Bratton said. “[But], if TED turned into something 
that is serious and useful and treated people like they’re in the conversa -
tion, that would be better. ”UCSD professor Benjamin Bratton 
criticizes TED talks and explains why 
he believes they’re ineffective.
BY ALEXIS MARCA  CONTRIBUTING WRITERTEARING DOWN
TED
PHO TO COURTESY OF T EDX TALKS
Readers can contact Alexis Marca at amarca@ucsd.edu.FEA T UR ES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TU ESDAY , JANUARY 21, 2014 | WWW. UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 7
Contact Brianna, UCSD Airway Research Center
619-471-0822Subjects  aged  18-­65  with  current  asthma  
symptoms  to  grass  pollens  needed  for  study  
requiring  donation  of  blood,  allergy  skin  
testing,  pulmonary  function  testing,  and  
completion  of  allergy  questionnaires.  Will  be  
reimbursed  $575  for  completion  of  5  clinic  
visit  study  over  a  2  year  period.UCSD  ASTHMA  BLOOD  
DONOR  STUDY:
Contact Dr. Broide, UCSD Department Medicine
858-­534-­2033UCSD SINUS ALLERGY
BLOOD DONOR STUDY:
Subjects aged 18-65 with current sinus 
allergy symptoms to grass pollen needed for 
study requiring donation of blood, allergy 
skin testing, pulmonary function testing, and 
completion of allergy questionnaires. Will be 
reimbursed $450 for completion of 4 clinic 
visit study over a 2 year period.
On- campus, pe rsonal o ffice   
Purple sp ot valid at all UC campuses  Apply to be the ne xt 
UCStude nt
Regent
Represent your fell ow UC Stude nts 
2 years PAID tu ition and fees  
Fully reimbu rsed business t ravel 
Appli cation due 
Thu rsday, Feb. 20th
For mo re inform ation
hweddle@ucsd.edu
as.ucsd.edu It all started with UCSD professor 
Prashant Bharadwaj’s ECON 116 class on 
economics in developing countries. UCSD 
alumna Kayla Trautwein, who graduated 
in 2013 with a major in Economics and a 
minor in Sociology, found her calling in 
that class: microfinance — a practice that 
allows low-scale entrepreneurs in developing 
countries to acquire loans to start their own 
businesses. Since graduating, Trautwein has 
put her passion for microfinance to work 
in an online fashion and lifestyle market -
place called Enrou. Described as a canvas for 
socially conscious brands, Enrou connects 
buyers with brands that support developing 
communities. Trautwein currently serves as 
the company’s CFO.
Founded in May 2013 by UCLA alum -
nae Ann W ang and Jessica Willison, both of 
whom attended high school with Trautwein, 
Enrou started as a simple Facebook page. At 
that point, Trautwein hadn’t talked to W ang 
or Willison since high school; but when she 
came across their Facebook page last July, she 
decided to join forces with them.
Instead of donating business proceeds to 
developing communities, Enrou aims to help 
these communities by providing markets for 
local artisans to trade their goods. Trautwein 
believes this practice is a more organic solu -
tion that will strengthen communities eco -
nomically. She explained that trade gives 
power to local businesses and allows them to 
build a more stable economy, while aid only 
increases the community’s dependence on 
external donors. 
So far, Enrou has partnered with seven 
brands that meet two basic criteria: they try 
to foster economic development, and the 
products they sell are aesthetically pleasing. 
One of the more well-known brands Enrou 
has teamed up with is Pura Vida Bracelets, 
which supports artisans in Costa Rica. Some 
of the clothing items Enrou carries were dis -
played by models from America’s Next Top 
Model Cycle 20 at the Techweek LA Fashion Show last November.
“We want people to feel like they are 
making an impact through each purchase, ” 
Trautwein said.
Enrou aims to bridge the gap between 
artisans and consumers through their blog, 
blog.enrou.co, which they’ve used to share the 
stories of artisans through interviews. This 
way, consumers can learn exactly where the 
product is coming from and what it’s doing 
for developing communities.
Trautwein plans to stand by Enrou for 
the long-run and hopes to see the creation 
of a microloan arm of the company in the 
future, which would allow Enrou to make 
loans to support local artisans in developing 
communities. 
Currently, Enrou is planning a socially 
conscious street-style campaign that they 
hope to launch in mid-February, in which 
people can post their outfits (from socially 
conscious brands, of course) to social media 
websites with the hashtag #enroutoem -
power. Through this campaign, the Enrou 
team hopes to reach out to the community. 
Trautwein also hopes to eventually reach out 
to UCSD in particular and spread awareness 
about Enrou’s work.
At the end of the day, Trautwein is still 
struck by a sense of wonder about the role 
she’s played at Enrou. But what strikes 
Trautwein more is that her journey with 
Enrou might’ve never happened.
“When you graduate, there’s this idea that 
you have to have a job right out of college, and 
if you move home right after, that’s weird, ” 
Trautwein said. “I think just going with what’s 
happening and being yourself and not being 
embarrassed is important. If I had just taken 
the job offer I had been given at the end of 
school just to have a job, I wouldn’t be with 
Enrou now. It’s really humbling and very cool 
to step back and see how that played out. ”
soumy a  kurnool     skurnool@ucsd.edu The Power of  Purchasing
Recent UCSD and UCLA graduates have launched Enrou, an 
online marketplace that supports socially conscious brands.
BY  soumy a  kurnool   editorial assistant
PHO TOS COURTESY OF E NROU8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TU ESDAY , JANUARY 21, 2014 | WWW. UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG FEA T UR ES
Go Bikes USA is urging students 
to join the fight to go green and 
save time and money by riding elec -
tric motorized bikes. The UCSD 
Bookstore is now selling these bikes 
at a lowered student price of $899.
Each bike is equipped with an 
electric motor that requires regular 
charging from an outlet. The drum 
brakes on the bike offer better stop -
ping ability than those on a regular 
bicycle, and there are three speeds 
to switch between depending on the 
rider’s need. The bike also comes 
with a front basket and a dual-pur -
pose rear platform, which can sup -
port up to 350 pounds. The platform 
can either be used to stow items 
like backpacks and books or can be 
folded out to form a backseat.
According to Go Bikes USA, rep -
resentative Henry Wei, the electric 
bikes can travel three to four times 
faster than regular bicycles. 
“Time is money, ” he said. “For 
you, walking across [campus for] 25 
minutes [means] you’re going to have 
to wake up 30 minutes earlier to go to 
that same class. Y ou could save your -
self a lot of time and a lot of head -
aches by riding a bicycle or having 
any type of transportation like this. ”Not only do the bikes save time, 
according to Wei, they also save a 
lot of money; students don’t need to 
pay for parking permits for the bikes, 
and the cost of such transportation 
works out to be about a penny a mile, 
roughly $60 to $70 per year.
Wei said that legally, the elec -
tric bikes conform to federal and 
California state law.
“This is classified with federal 
law and California state law as a 
bicycle, ” he said. “So, all the bicycle 
rules of California [apply]. With our 
bikes — since they go 20 miles per 
hour by federal and state law — you 
don’t need a license, registration or 
insurance. ”
The company also seeks to con -
tribute to the global initiative to 
become more eco-friendly. Go Bikes 
USA has sold to students at UC 
Irvine and Chapman University and 
has partnered with fast food restau -
rants in Chicago with delivery ser -
vices and RV owners who frequent 
campgrounds that have strict noise 
pollution policies. 
“There’s no carbon, ” Wei said. 
“[We’re] going green by using elec -
tricity like the Priuses and anything 
else. With electric, also, there’s no 
type of issues with gas, oil gaskets 
and stuff like that, so you don’t need 
to ‘fix’ these. And plus, there’s no 
noise. That’s what the green initiative is all about. ”
Wei contends that if a student 
were to use a bike to get to and from 
classes, the bike would only need to 
be charged once a week. The school 
will not permit students to store the 
bikes in the common areas of dorm 
rooms, but students can keep them 
in their individual rooms, or store 
them alongside the bike racks. Each 
bike has its own security system that, 
when locked, causes any movement 
of the bike to trigger an alarm and 
automatically lock the back wheel. 
Go Bikes USA is committed to 
assisting students and making every -
thing as easy as possible; according 
to Wei this is the first priority for 
Go Bikes USA. Wei explained how 
they personalize every sale and make 
sure that each student is happy and 
comfortable with his or her purchase.
“I will be [at the UCSD Bookstore] 
once a week to help everybody, and 
we can come by and actually fix the 
bikes for you, ” Wei said. “Y ou don’t 
have to bring it to us; we’ll come 
to you. What we do is when UCSD 
students buy one of these from us, we 
actually bring the bike to them. We 
deliver it, and we fit it to you exactly 
and show you everything about it 
before we let you go. ”Go Green with Go Bikes USA
Eco-friendly electric motorized bikes are now being sold at the UCSD Bookstore.
readers can contact
sy d n e y   r e c k      sreck@ucsd.edu 
PHO TO BY ALWIN SZETO /GUARDIANBY  s ydney  reck   
associate features editor
FIND US ON.
SOCIAL MEDIA./UCSDGUARDIAN@UCSDGUARDIAN@UCSDGUARDIANSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TU ESDAY , JANUARY 21, 2014 | WWW. UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 9

 
 
 
7KH'LVFRYHUWKH/DZSURJUDP 
KDVMXVWODXQFKHGIRU 
 
Comprised of  40 workshops throughout Winter Quarter , the Discover the Law program offers all 
currently -registered UC San Diego students the chance to explore different areas of law and 
the legal profession IRUIUHH. You may  drop in to as many workshops as you like, but students 
who register online and  attend at least four workshops will earn a resume -worthy        
Certificate of Achievement.  
&KHFNRXW6WXGHQW/HJDO6HUYLFHV·ZHEVLWH http://sls.ucsd.edu , for more info and to sign up. x  ,QWHUHVWHGLQOHJDOLVVXHV"x  &RQVLGHULQJDFDUHHULQWKHODZ"x  :DQWWRPHHWDWWRUQH\VDQGRWKHUOHJDOSURIHVVLRQDOV"“For our team to be successful, 
we need to really focus on get -
ting back into defensive transition 
and not giving up easy baskets, ” 
VanDerveer said. “The way that you 
do that is eliminating transition bas -
kets, which we were able to do, and really giving the people just one 
shot. ”
In the attack, Perry and junior 
forward McKennan Bertsch both 
led UCSD in scoring with 15 points. 
Perry also dominated the board 
swith career-high 13 rebounds in 
her double-double effort.
Dautremont finished with 12 points along with 12 rebounds, 
while Seto sank 13 points. Junior 
guard Stephanie Yano also dished 
out a team-high seven assists.
“We’re like a symphony orches -
tra; we play very well together, ” 
VanDerveer said. “Some nights we’ll 
have some people step out and be 
soloists, but it’s different people every game. I think that’s the differ -
ence with our team. ” 
After an effective weekend 
against conference opponents, the 
Tritons — now 10–4 overall and 7–3 
in the CCAA — find themselves 
tied for second in the CCAA with 
Cal State Stanislaus. The Tritons 
will return to home turf looking to continue their climb in the stand -
ings as they take on against Cal State 
Dominguez Hills on Friday, Jan. 
24, and Cal State Los Angeles on 
Saturday, Jan. 25. Both games will 
tip-off at 5:30 p.m. at RIMAC Arena.   Basketball to Face Cal State Dominguez Hills this Friday, Jan. 24 at UCSD’s Annual Spirit Night
/uni25B6 W. BASKETBALL,  from page 12College with a degree in human biol -
ogy and a minor in business. 
“This is kind of the last stretch 
of baseball being one of my main 
focuses, ” Frazier said. “I am hoping to 
get a job at a biotech company, to go 
to work trying to do something with 
a positive impact on the world, some -
thing that can make a difference. ”
Making a difference and being 
involved in the community seems 
to have always been an important 
part of Frazier’s focus in school. The 
second-baseman regularly volunteers 
with the baseball team and is also 
part of the Triton Athletes Council, 
a student-athlete organization whose 
focus is putting on community ser -
vice projects. 
“Our team served food at the San 
Diego rescue mission two years ago, ” 
Frazier said. “It was a very humbling 
experience and put things into per -
spective. No matter how bad of a day 
I have at baseball, I’m very fortunate 
for the opportunities I’ve had. It was 
also good to help them and to give 
back to the community and people 
in need. ”
The first chance for Frazier to step 
up was last Friday night’s exhibition 
game in UCSD’s 4–0 win against San 
Diego Christian. Frazier went 1-for-2 
against the Hawks, notching a triple 
in the seventh. 
The veteran leadership is not all that will go into the team’s suc -
cess this season, as a talented bunch 
of rookies is said to be moving up 
through the ranks along with some 
familiar faces. 
“We have a handful of new guys 
who we are expecting big things 
from. Erik Lewis is a transfer from 
Fullerton and he played at Long 
Beach State a couple of years, and 
he will be an impact infielder right 
off the bat,” Frazier said. “Tyler 
Howsley is going to get time at 
shortstop and is an extremely tal -
ented freshman infielder so we are 
expecting big things from him, as 
well as many other freshmen. ”
UCSD has two more exhibi -
tion games before opening its pre -
season on Sunday, Feb. 2, against 
Holy Names. The Tritons begin 
conference play on Feb. 8 with a 
doubleheader against Cal State Los 
Angeles.
“Until the season gets going and 
we start to see how these other 
teams are doing we have no idea, ” 
Frazier said. “It is kind of a mystery 
as of now which makes it more 
exciting. We have no idea about the 
new players from a lot of the teams, 
so we won’t know until we start 
playing. ” Frazier Looks Forward to 2014 Season
/uni25B6 FRAZIER , from page 12
The UCSD men’s basketball team 
was unsuccessful in its Northern 
California road trip, losing two games 
back to back. The Tritons lost 79–64 
to Sonoma State and 82–68 to San 
Francisco State. UCSD returns to La 
Jolla with a 3–7 record in California 
Collegiate Athletic Association play.
Friday night’s troubling loss to 
Sonoma was due in part to UCSD’s 
poor shooting performance. The 
Tritons shot a dismal 34 percent 
from the field and an ice-cold 12.5 
percent from the three-point line, 
only hitting three of their 24 attempts 
from behind the arc. Conversely, 
Sonoma State was on fire from long 
range, draining 62 percent of its 
three pointers.
As the top-ranked rebounding 
team in the conference, the Tritons 
performed uncharacteristically 
on the glass, where they were out 
rebounded 31–18. The Seawolves 
took advantage of the rebounds by 
scoring 17 second-chance points, a 
stark contrast to the Tritons’ meager 
four second-chance points.
“We obviously didn’t play our 
best basketball tonight, ” UCSD head coach Eric Olen said to the UCSD 
Athletics Department. “Sonoma State 
deserves a lot of credit for the way 
they played, but we didn’t do the 
little things in order to be successful 
tonight. ”
UCSD’s offense struggled all night 
— only one player, senior point guard 
James McCann scored in double dig -
its and also led the Tritons in points, 
rebounds and assists. McCann went 
7-for-15 for the night, finishing with 
a game high 17 points. The Carlsbad 
native also grabbed six boards and 
dished out two assists in the losing 
effort. Freshman guard Adam Klie 
was the second highest scorer for 
UCSD, finishing with eight points.
Sonoma State had an offensively 
balanced game; junior Mike Harris 
scored 15 points, Justin Herold 
scored 13 points and James Davis 
scored 12 points.
With the win over UCSD, Sonoma 
State was finally able to nab its 
first conference win of the season, 
improving to 1–8, good for last place 
in the CCAA standings.
The following night, the Tritons 
lost 82–68 to San Francisco State. The 
Tritons shot better than they did on 
Friday, shooting 40 percent from the field and netting 12 from downtown. 
Offensively, McCann had more help, 
as UCSD had five players that scored 
in double digits. Sophomore forward 
Drew Dyer led the way with a team-
high 15 points, adding five rebounds 
and three assists. McCann added 14 
points, six rebounds and eight assists
Although the Tritons shot the ball 
well, they could not stop CCAA lead -
ing scorer Nefi Perdomo. The 6-foot-
1-inch senior guard — averaging 
22 points on the season — scored 
29 points on 9-of-15 shooting from 
the field and also made five three-
pointers to lift the Gators.
Down by as many as 16 points, 
the Tritons were able to cut the lead 
to three with a McCann three-pointer 
with seven minutes left in the game. 
However, frivolous turnovers and 
fouls on defense led to easy buck -
ets for the Gators, while the Triton’s 
came up empty on offense.
UCSD looks to end its two-game 
losing streak with the help of a home 
court crowd on Friday, Jan. 24, as 
they face Cal State Dominguez Hills 
(2–8).MEN' S   BASK ETBA LL
Basketball Disappointed on the Road
Tritons lost to Sonoma State and San Francisco State, falling to 3–7 in the CCAA.
BY   D A NIEL  SU NG  STAFF  WRITER
readers  can  contact
DA NIEL  SU NG     D2SUNG@ucsd.edu  readers  can  contact
KIRST EN   WI LL MOn     KWILLMON@ucsd.edu  
readers  can  contact
BRA NDO N  YU     B2YU@ucsd.edu  10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , JANUARY 21, 2014 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CALENDAR
SALSA NIGHT  @ THE LOFTSAT1.25 • 7:30pmTahrir
get
more  exposure  =  higher  attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guardian
Calenda r
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdg uardian.orgcampus
CAL ENDAR
1.20 - 1.262014
TUE1.21
8am
1ST ANNUAL MAKE YOUR CASE CHALLENGE, 
HOSTED BY TRITON CONSULTING  – RADY SCHOOL 
OF MANAGEMENT, OTTERSON HALL 1S114
Do you have what it takes to MAKE YOUR CASE? UCSD 
students will have the opportunity to prepare a case study 
on an issue of their choice within the finance, healthcare, 
or technology industry. Teams will compete for the best 
strategic plans and recommendations to our esteemed 
panel of judges and have the chance to win prizes. All 
majors are welcomed!? Want to learn more and need to 
find team members? Come out to the INFO SESSION! UCSD 
Triton Consulting Group will cover how to register, the rules 
and regulations, what to expect at the preliminary and final 
round, etc.? Case competitions are a great resume booster. 
This is an opportunity you do not want to miss! Contact: 
ucsdtcg@gmail.com
10am
THE FITNESS ZONE: CARDIO HIT – THE ZONE, 
PRICE CENTER PLAZA
Join FitLife instructor Cassey Marsh for a free, extremely 
efficient cardio-conditioning and calorie-burning session. 
The program is organized in intervals of high intensity, 
moderate intensity and low intensity and uses body weight 
and simple weights to increase the body's ability to use its 
fat stores for energy. The session will wrap-up the workout 
with a fully-body stretch to balance out the mind and body 
before taking on the rest of the day.
11am
HEALTHY BACK – THE ZONE, PRICE CENTER PLAZA
This is the first FREE interactive workshop to achieve and 
maintain a healthy back. This workshop will teach proper 
body mechanics and back strengthening exercises.
2pm
TASTY TUESDAY – THE ZONE, PRICE CENTER 
PLAZA
Come join us for another lovely cooking demo with 
Elizabeth Shaw and Vaughn Vargas (Housing and Dining's 
Registered Dietician and Executive Chef). This weeks 
featured dish is vegetarian Thai coconut soup! Tasty 
Tuesdays are free; all supplies and materials provided. 
Space is limited and is first come, first served.
FRI1.24
10am
THE FITNESS ZONE: 
SUPERCORE – THE 
ZONE
Not your average ab class! 
In a FREE 45minutes, you 
will fatigue your core 
muscles, ultimately 
allowing the muscles to 
get stronger, faster. 
Utilizing gliding disks, this 
class will fly by in the blink 
of an eye! All levels 
welcome. Lead by FitLife 
instructor Hector Fletes.
12pm
FLU VACCINE CLINIC – 
THE ZONE
FREE flu vaccine for SHIP 
students; all other 
students pay $15 for 
injection, $25 for 
intranasal.SAT1.25
8am
MOONLIGHT HIKE COWLES MOUNTAIN – MEET AT OUTBACK RENTAL SHOP IN PEPPER CANYON
You will be amazed at just how much the moon lights up the mountain on this great local adventure. Cowles Mountain is just 20 minutes 
from campus in Mission Trails Park. Hiking three miles in the moonlight and taking in the panoramic views of the skyline are a great way to 
spend a few hours away from campus. Signup online under Hiking, in person at the Rental Shop (behind Pepper Canyon), at the Surf Shop (in 
Price Center), or over the phone at 858-534-0684. Early Bird Pricing (before January 20): Current UCSD students $18/ Others $25. After 
January 20: Current UCSD students $21/Others $28. Contact: steal@ucsd.edu. Website: 
https://recreation.ucsd.edu/Outback-Adventures/trips-and-classes.html
8am
MEDICAL EDUCATION FOR DIVERSE STUDENTS – TELEMEDICINE BLDG
Medical Education for Diverse Students (MEDS) is an all-day conference for underrepresented, minority and/or low-income pre-med or 
pre-pharm students, held Saturday, January 25th 8:00-9:00am at UCSD School of Medicine and Skaggs School of Pharmacy- Telemedicine 
Buiding. There will be workshops on all components of the application process. On top of that, the UCSD Schools of Medicine and Pharmacy 
have invited conference attendees to participate in hands-on workshops in the brand-new patient simulation labs, just like first-year medical 
and pharmacy students. Regardless of students's level of preparation for applying, MEDS hopes to equip students with foundational and 
essential information needed to successfully apply to medical or pharmacy schools. Registration required, at: meds.ucsd.edu Check 
in/breakfast begin at 8:00am. Questions? Contact Rachel Bruckman, MEDS Coordinator. Contact: rbruckma@ucsd.edu
9am
SPEAK TRUTH TO POWER: 4TH ANNUAL CROSS-CULTURAL LEADERSHIP – CROSS-CULTURAL CENTER
This year's theme of 'Speak Truth to Power' emerges from the historical trajectories of resistance and self-expression. It is about sharing our 
communities' histories through the intersections of our own personal stories. The conference will be about the issues that face our 
communities and how do we experience and navigate them through our own experiences of self, friends, family, and community. In 
collaborating with different departments on campus, the conference will also provide a critical space to reflect on the multiple dimensions of 
being a student activist from well-being to transitioning into post-college life. Breakfast and lunch provided. Workshop submissions and 
RSVPs are due by Friday 1/17/14 at 4:00 PM. Questions? Contact Irving Ling. Contact: icling@ucsd.edu Website: 
http://ucsdc3lc.wordpress.com/THU1.23
10am
MEDITATION AT THE ZONE – THE ZONE
Every Thursday from 10:00am - 10:30am. Join us for a 
guided meditation where you can: Gain greater mental 
clarity, Achieve a peaceful state of being, Learn techniques 
to de-stress, Achieve harmony amid cognitive dissonance. 
Meditation led by Recreation FitLife instructor, Voula 
Athens.
1:30pm
THERAPY FLUFFIES – THE ZONE, PRICE CENTER 
PLAZA
Come relax and de-stress with our fun-loving certified 
therapy dogs. Join us at The Zone every week and relax 
with these playful pups!
3pm
FEMINISTS IN FANDOMS: SCI-FI AND SOCIAL 
JUSTICE – WOMEN’S CENTER
Not so long ago in a galaxy pretty close to here! Do you 
geek out for sci-fi? Love watching but wish you saw more 
diversity in space? Join us for a discussion on Doctor Who, 
Star Wars, Star Trek and more! We'll talk about what we 
hope 'lives long and prospers in sci-fi' and also want we 
want to 'exterminate'. Food provided! Contact: 
women@uscd.edu
8pm
MILES K AND JESSE ELIAS – THE LOFT, PRICE 
CENTER
Come hang out with this dynamic comedic duo! Miles K: 
Over the last year he has performed at SF Sketchfest, The 
Laughing Skull Comedy Festival, the San Francisco Comedy 
and numerous colleges. His written work has been featured 
on Reddit, College Humor, Yahoo, and MSN. He is a regular 
performer at The San Francisco Punch Line, Cobb's 
Comedy Club, The La Jolla Comedy Store and many more. 
Jesse Elias: Jesse Elias is a fresh San Francisco-grown 
comic ready to be enjoyed. In 2012,he performed in 
festivals like Sketchfest, Bridgetown, 32nd Annual Comedy 
Day, and Outside Lands. Prior to that, Jesse Elias competed 
and won in an SF comedy talent show where he 
reproduced another comedian's vocal patterns on electric 
violin. FREE for UCSD students with valid ID/General $5. 
Contact: avpconcerts@ucsd.eduWED1.22
11am
FITSTOP HEALTH ASSESSMENT – THE 
ZONE, PRICE CENTER PLAZA
The FREE FITstop assessment measures 
your level of fitness compared to others in 
your age group. The four specific 
categories measured are: cardiovascular 
health, muscular strength and endurance, 
body weight and composition and flexibility. 
We use equipment and exercises to 
measure your blood pressure, heart rate, 
percent of body fat, flexibility, 
cardiovascular health, endurance, 
abdominal strength and upper body 
strength.
2:30pm
DESTRESS WITH BIOFEEDBACK – THE 
ZONE, PRICE CENTER PLAZA
What is Biofeedback? Biofeedback 
measures psychological stressors and 
provides the participant with more insight 
about what makes he or she most stressed 
and how it affects one's wellbeing. By 
coming to this program, you will be able to 
test our Biofeedback services and let CAPS 
Peer educators teach how to breathe easy!
8pm
FASHION QUARTERLY LAUNCH 
PARTY – THE LOFT, PRICE CENTER
Fashion Quarterly Magazine would like to 
start off the new year and the launch of 
their Fall/Winter '14 issue with all of our 
friends and peers. Come by the Loft to 
raise a glass, enjoy a bite to eat, listen to 
music from UCSD's DVC, and take a peek 
at the latest issue of our magazine. Browse 
selections from local boutiques such as 
Lolo Boutique and also get a chance to 
rummage for gems at our a thrifting table 
set up by FQ, both available exclusively for 
this event. This event is FREE for all 
students, and throughout the night we will 
be raffling prizes, including gift cards from 
The Cottage and other local businesses. 
Contact: ucenmarketin@ucsd.eduPOWERED BY THE CHANCELLOR’S OFFICE AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu
CLASSIFIEDS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , JANUARY 21, 2014 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11Classifieds$
Gua rdian Classi/f_ieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT^^^\JZKN\HYKPHUVYNJSHZZPÄLKZcrossword
ACROSS
1 Really silly
6 Server’s tool
11 Queasy, perhaps
14 Where the 4077th MASH served
15 Mammy’s boy
16 Zero
17 Dispel hostile feelings
19 Bay Area airport letters
20 Mildew evidence
21 Sound quality?
23 Shoe part
26 RFK Stadium soccer team
28 “Mame” Tony winner (1966)
30 Ancient spell caster
31 Drink that can follow a shot
32 Oldest of the Fab Four
34 Creative pursuit
35 Streisand cross-dressing role
40 Calif. site of the Latino Walk of Fame
43 Screenwriter Ephron
44 “Please tell me you’re not serious”
48 Mentored ones
49 Words of resignation
50 It may be wireless
51 It’s written on an env.
52 Back away
53 “The Lord of the Rings” region, and a 
hint to the shared feature of 17-, 28- 
and 44-Across and 26-Down
59 Nuevo __: Peru’s currency
60 Causing chills
61 Item on a cocktail toothpick
62 Trough site
63 Raid targets
64 Play in the tubDOWN
1 “Best in Show” org.
2 Ballot figure
3 Rage
4 Aquarium frolicker
5 More puzzling
6 Portrayer of an Oz feline
7 Pulitzer winner Burrows
8 Microscopic crime scene clue, briefly
9 Retiree’s abundance
10 Knightly news?
11 Latin for “where it originally was”
12 Crane, at times
13 Bentsen who said to Quayle, “Senator, 
you’re no Jack Kennedy”
18 Subject
22 Fed. research agency
23 Some PCs
24 Scotch order
25 Epic tale
26 Scarcities
27 Chess move you can only make once
29 Pure
33 Cashed in
36 Hold spellbound
37 Big Apple neighborhood near the 
Bowery
38 Drainpipe section
39 Not on schedule
41 More likely to explode
42 “Dog the Bounty Hunter” airer
44 1950 classic 
sci-fi short story book
45 To twice the degree
46 Cousin from an “altogether ooky” 
family
47 Events with some very short rides
48 Publicity
51 Malty mugfuls
54 “In My Bed” R&B group __ Hill
55 Archaeologist’s project
56 Carnival resort
57 Some are HD
58 Snicker sound
www.ucsdguardian.org/advertising
t
your vision,
our missi on.
outfitters@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel to 
promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's new Made TO 
Order  program!
to.ucsd.eduON CAMPUS. ONLINE. ON POIN T.
OPEN WEEK 3 ON LIBRARY WA LK • 10am-3pm 
#MoreThanAShirtTICKETS
Saturday Happy Hour: Bang Bang Sushi- 
Bang Bang sushi social house in downtown 
offers happy hour every day from 5-7p so 
let’s check it out Saturday, February. eighth. 
Along with half-off food and drink specials, 
the unique design with a tile-lined, tunneled 
entrance and oversized Japanese hanging 
lanterns, is worth checking out. Listing ID: 
80295641 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
Spec Ops Game Team Training - Back to the 
game peoples. Sign up Listing ID: 80295640 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Tickets for Colin Mochrie/Brad Sherwood 
at Balboa Theatre in San Diego - $125 - 
Buy Colin MochrieBrad Sherwood Tickets 
for Thursday, February 20, 2014 7:30 PM 
at Balboa Theatre in San Diego, California. 
Listing ID: 80295639 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information.
SPORTING GOODS
Taylor Made Driver, Golf Club, Tour - 1415 
N. Magnolia Ave. Driver golf club in ter -
rific condition, see photos for info. Listing ID: 
80243324 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
FCS Twin Fins Glass Fins - This twin fin design 
is a hybrid of many different popular tem -
plates tested over time. It is designed spe -
cifically for Twins and Retro Twin boards, but 
can also be combined with a GS Trailer to cre -
ate a twin fin feeling in a standard thruster 
or hybrid set up. Listing ID: 80243323 at 
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
Football helmet Schutt - A great helmet used 
for 2 seasons by me. No cracks or major dam -
age has been done to the helmet. It serves 
its purpose by protecting your head and 
keeping you safe. Very clean size medium 
color blue. If interested Please Email me. Or 
txt/call. la jolla blvd at bonair st. Listing ID: 
80243321 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information.
CARS AND AUTO
2008 Infiniti G37 Base San Diego, CA - 
$16998 - Exterior Color: gray, Body: two door 
Car Coupe, Engine: 3.7L six cylinder Fuel 
Injection, Cylinders: 6. Listing ID: 80295605 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
2009 Nissan, 52K miles - $14290 - Serving 
San Diego and all surrounding areas Listing 
ID: 80295604 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
A/p_ply no/w.end!Email your resume & portfolio to
asgraphicstudio@ucsd.eduBecome an  
Egg Donor
(Asian Egg Donors  
in high demand!)
Help create families,  
compensation is generous. 
Seeking reliable, healthy,  
women age 21-30. 
Call today! (877) 492-7411  
or apply online
www.westcoasteggdonation.comSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
RACHEL  UDA
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TU ESDAY , JANUARY 21, 2014 | WWW. UCSDGUARDIAN .ORG 
Coming off of an exhibition win against 
San Diego Christian this past Friday, 
this year’s UCSD baseball team is gear -
ing up for the start of its season with a roster 
heavy with veteran talent. Among the crop 
of seasoned upperclassmen is senior second-
baseman, Spencer Frazier. 
Frazier — a human biology major pursuing 
a career in the biotech industry — came in as 
part of the 2010 recruiting class. While red -
shirting that year, Frazier supported the team 
during a season in which the Tritons ultimately 
won the NCAA West Region title and went on 
to become the NCAA national runner-up. 
As a redshirt, Frazier did not see time 
on the field until his junior year at UCSD in 
2012, where he had a breakout year receiving 
All-California Collegiate Athletic Association 
honorable mention and starting at second base 
for the Tritons in 42 of 57 games. That year 
he wrapped up the season with a strong .274 
batting average in his 124 plate appearances. 
Frazier also led the team with 10 sacrifice hits. 
“There are a lot of different things that went 
into me playing that year, ” Frazier said. “The 
prior two years, UCSD had a very experienced 
team with a lot of juniors and seniors who had 
then graduated going into my junior year. I 
think, personally, I just grew up, after those 
first two years. I was more mature and more 
prepared to play. ”But an exceptional 
breakout year, followed by 
a string of injuries — includ -
ing a stress fracture in his left shin 
and two separate injuries necessitat -
ing stitches on both his left and right 
eyelids — slowed Frazier’s advance. This 
all on the heels of the departure of 14-sea -
son tenured head coach Dan O’Brien. 
But, if anything, this seems to have only 
motivated him to return to the diamond for his 
last season at UCSD.
“I came back because I wanted to play one 
more year and wanted to be a part of the team 
again. The way that school worked out, it was 
really easy. I knew I would only have to take two 
quarters of classes, ” Frazier said.
This year, as one of the oldest players on the 
team, Frazier looks to lend his very varied expe -
rience to step up as a leader for UCSD.
“I have been a starter, been an all-confer -
ence player, but I have also lost my spot, sat on 
the bench, I have redshirted, I had to walk on 
to make the team. I have experienced a lot 
of different things and can relate to a lot of 
different players, which I think helps me 
as a leader, ” Frazier said. 
While Frazier prepares for the 
season, he is also getting ready 
to graduate from Sixth FRAZIER’S FINAL ACT
Former redshirt Spencer Frazier will return for fifth year.
B Y  kirsten  willmon   STAFF  WRITER     PHOTO  B Y  NHA N  NGUY EN   BAS EBA LL
MEN' S VOLLE YBA LL
Volleyball Still Searching for 
First MPSF Conference Win
The Tritons fell to BYU at home and will face Hawaii this week.WOM EN' S  BASK ETBA LL
Tritons Improve to 7–3, 
Ranked Second in Conference
Women’s basketball took two more wins on a weekend road trip.
For its home opener at RIMAC Arena, the 
UCSD men’s volleyball team faced off against 
Brigham Y oung University in front of a loud 
crowd of 826 this past Saturday. Despite the 
support, the Tritons couldn’t deliver as they 
lost to conference powerhouse No. 7 BYU in 
straight sets — 25–12, 25–19 and 25–17.
Last year’s national runner-up, BYU, 
improved to 4–2 overall, while the Tritons 
have yet to find its first conference win (0–4). 
BYU and UCSD have faced off 35 times and 
BYU has claimed wins in all of these meetings. 
BYU played effectively and hit an efficient 
0.354 (40-11-82) with 15 aces, nine of which 
came courtesy of reigning MPSF Player of the 
Y ear Taylor Sander. 
For the Tritons, senior opposite Johl 
Awerkamp had eight kills, while senior setter 
Mike Brunsting had 17 assists paired with 
nine digs. Freshman outside hitter Calvin Manchenko also had a notable appearance as 
he came in for the third set, making his first 
collegiate kill for UCSD. 
UCSD held its only lead at 3–2 during the 
third set with the roar of the electrifying crowd 
behind them, but the Tritons couldn’t hold the 
lead and eventually dropped behind, unable to 
gap the deficit.
When asked, UCSD head coach Kevin Ring 
said there were a couple improvements the 
Tritons can make.
“There are two things: certainly passing 
and, from a skill standpoint, just playing a little 
better on each touch, ” Ring said. “ Also just 
playing a little bit with more heart. ”
The Tritons will look to pick up their first 
win as they head off to Honolulu, Hawaii on 
Thursday, Jan. 23, to face off against University 
of Hawaii for a two-match set on Friday, Jan. 
24, and Sunday, Jan. 26. 
readers  can  contact
GURKIRA T SI NGH     GSINGH@ucsd.edu  BY  g u r k i r a t  s i n g h   STAFF  WRITER
The UCSD women’s basketball team took 
a pair of wins on Friday, Jan. 17, against 
Sonoma State and on Saturday, Jan. 18, 
against San Francisco State. 
The Tritons improve to 10–4 overall and 
are now tied for second in the conference 
with a 7–3 record in California Collegiate 
Athletic Association play.
 After poor shooting in the first half, in 
which UCSD shot only 23.5 percent (8–34) 
from the field, the Tritons came out firing in 
the final two quarters, scoring a total of 49 
points in the second half.
“In the second half we were able to get in a 
much better offensive rhythm and really play 
some solid defense, ” UCSD head coach Heidi 
VanDerveer said. “I think our defense really 
got us some easy looks, got us in a rhythm and really helped us turn the corner in the 
game. ”
Senior guard Megan Perry led with 18 
points, which came from six three-pointers. 
Coupled with junior guard Miranda Seto 
and senior forward Erin Dautremont’s 16 
points each, the Tritons found a way to power 
through the Seawolves, who, with the loss, fell 
to 2–11 overall and 1–8 in the CCAA.
Coming off of the big win, the Tritons 
took down San Francisco State 62–54.
San Francisco State, now 9–7 overall and 
5–5 in the CCAA, found themselves shut 
down on the attack, as the Tritons held the 
Gators to a mere 27.9 percent (19–68) shoot -
ing from the field.
VanDerveer said that the team’s defense 
has been the key element for the Tritons’ 
recent success. BY  b r a n d o n  y u   STAFF  WRITER
See W. BASKETBALL , page 9BASEBALL
WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
MEN’S BASKETBALL
MEN’S VOLLEYBALL
WOMEN’S WATER POLO1/21
1/24
1/24
1/24
1/17VS CSU San Marcos
VS CSU Dominguez Hills
VS CSU Dominguez Hills
AT University of Hawaii
AT UCSB TournamentUPCOMING
UCSD
GAMES
See FRAZIER , page 9     
PHO TO COURTESY UCSD AT HLETICS
PHO TO COURTESY UCSD AT HLETICS