VOLUME 48, ISSUE 36  THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 26, 2015 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
VAST, VIVID 
VIDEO GAME
IN THE UCSD GUARDIAN’S FIRST 
VIDEO GAME REVIEW, WE LOOK 
AT SUNLESS SEA, ONE OF THE 
HOTTEST INDIE GAMES THIS 
MONTH. ITS VAST IMAGINATION 
AND CHALLENGING GAMEPLAY 
PUT IT OVER THE TOP .
UCOP  HAL TS  TUITION  RISE
VICTOR Y  ON  THE  ROADSummer   '15   Students  Sp ared
tritons  win  first  A W A Y seriesopinion,  P age   4 
sports,  P age  12
THURSDAY
H 65 L 55FRIDAY
H 65 L 56
SATURDAY
H 62 L 52SUNDAY
H 61 L 51
FORECAST
VERBATIM
For those 
uninformed 
about Uber, 
the beauty of 
its services 
lies in the 
simplicity of it all. The company 
is very 21st century...”
- Jordan Utley-Thomson
GUARDIAN WATCH
OPINION , PAGE 4
INSIDE
SCITECH  ......................... 2
EDITORIALS  .................... 4
CULTURE SHOCK  ............. 8
SUDOKU  ....................... 10
BASEBALL  .................... 12“
WEEKEND,  P AGE  8
PHOTO COURTESY OF DIALOG WHEELSTUDENT LIFE
Khosla Announces All-
Campus Commencement
UCSD will begin hosting a campuswide 
commencement ceremony, starting with 
the class of 2016. Graduating seniors 
from all six undergraduate colleges, as well as 
graduate students from the Graduate Division, 
the Rady School of Management and the School 
of International Relations and Pacific Studies will 
receive their degrees at this ceremony.
Each of the six undergraduate colleges, the 
Graduate Division, the school of management 
and IR/PS will continue to host its own gradu -
ation ceremonies during commencement week -
end in which students can walk across the stage. 
The Campuswide Commencement Planning 
Committee is collaborating with the college pro -
vosts to ensure that the campuswide ceremony 
and college celebrations will complement each 
other well. 
UCSD Chancellor Pradeep K. Khosla told 
UCSD News Center on Feb. 19 that he believes a 
campuswide ceremony will strengthen the sense of community among graduating students.
“We are one university, one UC San Diego 
community, ” Khosla said. “Creating a tradition 
that recognizes all of our graduates and their 
achievements, together, is the most fitting way to 
honor our newest alumni. ”
The Chancellor’s Office organized the 
Campuswide Commencement Planning 
Committee to review the proposal for the cam -
puswide ceremony. After studying the logistics 
and goals, the committee recommended that the 
university start the tradition in June 2016 so that 
campus leadership will have ample time to plan 
and recruit a high-profile speaker.
Revelle College Council President Soren 
Nelson expressed dissatisfaction with UCSD’s 
ability in the past to get well-known commence -
ment speakers since it has multiple smaller 
ceremonies.
“When it comes to attracting a high-caliber 
speaker, UCSD is at a disadvantage, ” Nelson   B y Jacky  to    Staff writeRRady School of  
Management 
Launches New 
Analysis CenterEDUCATION
The Center for Business 
Analytics will collaborate 
with corporate partners to 
provide graduate students 
with data analysis experience.
B Y  KRITI  SARIN
ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITOR
The UCSD Rady School of 
Management announced the launch of 
its new Center for Business Analytics 
on Feb. 10. The center will work 
directly with corporate partners and 
focus on teaching graduate students 
how to apply data analysis techniques 
when making business decisions.
Associate Professor of Marketing 
Vincent Nijs told the UCSD 
Guardian that one of the reasons 
the center was established was to 
provide graduate students at Rady 
with firsthand experience in the 
evolving fields of data analytics and 
business intelligence.
“The center will support innovative 
research and increase collaboration 
with businesses and public agencies, ” 
Nijs said. “Data analytics is 
revolutionizing the business world and 
the Center for Business Analytics will 
help prepare Rady’s graduate students 
to become leaders in this sector. ”
Nijs defined analytics as the 
application of data in conjunction 
with statistical and quantitative 
models to make more data-driven 
decisions in the business world. He 
commented that the center views 
the scarcity of professional business 
analysts as a major problem.
 “Businesses are striving to 
use analytics to gain competitive 
advantage.  However, there is not 
only a lack of data scientists with 
advanced training in statistics and 
machine learning, ” Nijs explained. 
“But importantly, there is also a 
significant shortage of business 
analysts and project managers who 
are able to identify the right analytics 
projects to pursue. Particularly, first-
rate analytics projects should create 
substantial value to an organization by 
solving impactful business problems. ”
Each of the center’s four divisions 
of activities concentrates on a different 
activity: research, executive education, 
consulting projects and a partners’ 
symposium. These programs range 
in focus from consulting projects 
to research presentations and offer 
graduate students a thorough 
education in analytical topics, 
according to Nijs.
“There is substantial student 
demand for sophisticated, marketable 
job skills and knowledge in the area 
of business analytics at the graduate 
level, ” Nijs told the Guardian. 
“Educational initiatives linked to 
the Center for Business Analytics 
will provide students with an 
understanding of business problems 
and how to assess opportunities to 
improve business performance. ”
He further explained how students See COMMENCEMENT , page 3
Six dance teams from the UCSD community performed at the Fusion XV Hip-Hop Dance Competition opener hosted by the 
Multi-Asian Student Association in Price Center’s West Ballroom last Sunday. Photo by Jesus Pacheco / UCSD Guardian.
GRADUATION
UCSD’s Multi-Asian Student 
Association hosted the Fusion 
XV Kickoff on Feb. 22, drawing 
an estimated crowd of 300 to 400 
students to watch six teams of hip-
hop dancers from throughout the 
UCSD community perform in Price 
Center West Ballroom. 
The show was an opener for 
the Fusion XV Hip-Hop Dance 
Competition, which will be hosted 
by MASA in April. 
Fusion is a competition meant 
to recognize diversity in dance 
and features teams from across 
California. UCSD has hosted the 
competition since 1999. This will 
only be the 15th competition, 
however, since it was not held           
in 2012. 
Trophies and monetary prizes will be awarded, as well as the second 
annual Fusion Dance Scholarship. 
Dancers of all ages and styles can 
apply, and two will be awarded the 
$125 scholarship. 
UCSD alumna Tracy Liu and 
Muir College junior Jinseong Na 
hosted and initiated the show 
at around 7:30 p.m. The night 
featured performances by dance 
teams such as Footsteps, Bodyrock, 
Finesse, D12, Salty Bodies, 4NO1 
and kunFusion. Jonathan Sison of 
the Culture Shock Dance Center         
also performed. 
Revelle College junior and 
Lead Coordinator Jane Duan and 
Lead Coordinator Max Shen led 
the planning for the event. Both 
the kickoff and the competition in 
April are events run entirely by         
student committees.
This is the first year that Duan 
has worked as a coordinator for 
the kickoff, and she expressed her happiness with the turnout.
“We weren’t sure how many 
people were going to show up since 
it was a Sunday night, ” said Duan. 
“We were expecting about 300 so 
having more was satisfactory. ”
Next year, Duan hopes to hold 
the kickoff on a Friday to increase 
the attendance beyond what it was 
this year.
In previous years, the kickoff 
had been held in Price Center 
Plaza. According to Duan, the event 
changed locations this year in order 
to better accommodate the dance 
performances. 
“Originally the kickoff was held 
at PC stage, in front of Price Theater, 
and it was a much smaller event 
where teams showcased their skills, ” 
Duan told the UCSD Guardian. 
“We decided this year to move it 
toward a more professional event Fusion XV Kickoff  Event Draws Hundreds  
Finalists of the 15th annual dance competition will qualify for cash prizes and scholarships. CUL TURE
B Y   BR YNNA  BOL T
staff writer
See  FUSION , page 2 See RADY , page 32 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 26, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG N EWS
AVERAGE CAT By Christina Carlson
Registration for WINTER Qtr is NOW open!
Register online at 
as.ucsd.edu/saferides
A.S. Safe Rides allows register ed un dergradua te 
studen ts to  get 3  FREE rides per quarter.
Studen ts must register  at lea st 24 hours
prio r to their first ride.  A.S. Safe Rides 
asucsd asucsd
#OMG 
#LIKE US
#FOLLOW US
@ucsdguar dianSciencE  AND  TECHNOLOGY
UCSD Researchers Develop New Medical Data Collection Tool
The device is expected to improve interaction between patients and doctors by collecting data from medical visits.
SHERMAN  ALINE   SALINE@ucsd.edu readers can contact
Like us on Facebook
facebook.com/ucsdguardian
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and 
Thursdays during the academic year by UCSD students 
and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this 
newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, 
without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2014, all 
rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible 
for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The 
views expressed herein do not necessarily represent 
the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of 
California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian 
is funded by advertising. Gavin Newsom might be a robot,
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.orgBusiness Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Aleksandra Konstantinovic
Andrew E. Huang  
Taylor Sanderson
Tina Butoiu
Kriti Sarin
Charu Mehra
Cassia Pollock
Brandon Yu
John Story
Teiko Yakobson
Jacqueline Kim
Kyle Somers
Nilu Karimi
Siddharth Atre
Jonathan Gao
Joselynn Ordaz
Elyse Yang
Annie Liu
Rosina Garcia
Laura Chow
Vincent PhamEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
  
Associate News Editor
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Social Media Coordinator
Training and Development
Page Layout
Sherman Aline, Charu Mehra, Sidney Gao
Copy Readers
Andrew Chao, Caroline Lee, Micaela Stone
Editorial Assistants
Shelby Newallis, Jennifer Grundman,  
Karly Nisson, Mario Attie, Marcus ThuillierResearchers have created a 
compact data-collection tool 
called Lab-in-a-Box, working 
on an interdisciplinary project at 
UCSD known as QUICK, short for 
“Quantifying Electronic Medical 
Record Usability to Improve Clinical 
Workflow. ” The project aims to 
collect data on interactions among 
physicians, their patients and their 
devices, then analyze that data to 
increase the efficiency of the time 
doctors spend with patients. 
According to Nadir Weibel, a 
research scientist specializing in 
human-computer interaction in the 
computer science and engineering 
department at UCSD and biomedical 
information and cognitive science 
expert on the QUICK team, the 
more accurate data gathered by 
the Lab-in-a-Box should increase 
the potential for improvement of 
doctor-patient interactions.
“Within the past, a lot of research 
has been based on staff surveys and 
forms that physicians and patients 
have been filling out, ” Weibel said. 
“Y ou know what the physician felt 
about, what did they think had 
happened — nothing about what 
really happened. ”Although the QUICK team is 
still in the data-collection stage of 
their project, they are beginning 
to analyze their data. Their first 
findings were recently published 
in the February 2015 issue of the 
journal Personal and Ubiquitous 
Computing, as well as highlighted 
in New Scientist magazine. The 
QUICK tool outputs roughly 2 
1/2 gigabytes of data during every 
half-hour office visit. This is due 
to the variety of sensors used by 
the device: eye tracking, screen 
monitoring, motion information via 
a Microsoft Kinect and a directional 
audio sensor. The software in 
the machine synchronizes these 
different data streams and analyzes 
the combinations of activity to 
determine when the physician          
is distracted.
The compact nature of the Lab-
in-a-Box lends itself to many uses 
outside the medical focus of the 
QUICK project. 
“I think it is the essence of the 
name, ‘the Lab-in-a-Box, ’” Weibel 
said. “Basically, the idea is to be able 
to bring the controlled experiment 
that you can do in a lab out in[to] 
the field. ”
The same sensors used in the 
Lab-in-a-Box have been utilized 
in other fields already, including analyzing the behavior of pilots in 
the cockpit and interpreting sign 
language. 
The device, along with the 
accompanying laptop computer, 
costs $2,000 to $3,000. While the 
QUICK project is applying the 
Lab-in-a-Box to doctor’s offices, 
researchers on the project hope to 
apply the technology to interactions 
between surgeons and staff during 
surgeries in the operating room. 
The team still aims to make 
the Lab-in-a-Box more effective, 
allowing for more diverse uses of 
the technology. 
“One of the goals we have is 
really to make it disappear in the 
background, ” Weibel explained. “So 
this could be something that could be 
deployed in medical offices; it could 
be deployed in the healthcare setting 
[and] later on in emergency rooms. ” 
Weibel stated a goal of open 
communication with healthcare 
providers and making the 
deployment of monitoring 
technologies as natural and 
unobtrusive as possible. He 
considered the privacy concerns 
regarding the technology part of a 
broader trend rather than a separate 
concern within patient care.
“I feel the field is changing a 
lot, the world is changing a lot. Everybody is getting some of their 
information tracked one way or the 
other, ” he said. “So, certainly, I think 
this is something that will happen 
naturally often in hospitals and in 
healthcare environments. ”
One of the later goals of the 
project is to allow real-time feedback 
to help doctors stay on task and 
listen to their patients.
The QUICK team has 
implemented and collected data in 
doctor’s offices at the V A Medical 
Center and is now moving Lab-in-
a-Box units to offices in the UCSD 
Medical Center.
QUICK researchers plan to draw 
conclusions from the aggregate data 
about what behaviors and activities 
constitute distracted behavior and 
find suggestions on how the system 
can be improved.
“The next step is [to] really try 
to analyze these different activities, 
these different behaviors and try 
to understand when they happen, 
why they happen, ” Weibel said. “ And 
then hopefully come up with some 
recommendation at the end about 
how can we change the system. ”B Y   SHERMAN  ALINE
Designerwill be taught by addressing the 
specific subjects the center’s activities 
will emphasize and discussed how 
the programs would directly connect 
students to the business world.
“Students will use statistical, 
econometric and analytical methods 
to improve decision making, ” Nijs 
added. “Topic areas might include 
management science and business, 
customer and supply chain analytics. 
By working on projects through the CBA, students will become effective 
collaborators and communicators, 
prepared to launch successful 
careers in the burgeoning field of 
business analytics. ” 
Rady School of Management 
announced the center’s first 
corporate sponsor, Urban Insights, 
on the same day that it announced 
its launch. The professional services 
firm has been applying data analysis 
in the transportation industry since 
its inception and is optimistic about 
the partnership, according to a Rady press release from Feb. 12.
There are three different 
levels of corporate sponsorship 
that businesses can attain. Firms 
interested in becoming founding 
partners are expected to pay annual 
membership fees of $20,000, and 
firms that want to be corporate 
partners or data sponsors are 
expected to pay $5,000 and $2,000 
in membership fees, respectively.said. “It’s really frustrating to see 
President Obama speak at a school 
like UC Irvine while we get decid -
edly lesser-known speakers. ”
Nelson also wondered if this may 
be the university’s way of diverging 
from the six-college system.
“From what I understand, 
Chancellor Khosla is not a pro -
ponent of the college system, and 
some people see this as a move to 
subvert college commencements, ” 
Nelson said. “Either way, I hope the 
Chancellor’s Office breaks with tra -dition and asks students what they 
want because that’s who this really 
should be about. ”
Warren College Council 
President Jesse Qin told the UCSD 
Guardian that he is concerned that 
the addition of another ceremony 
will diminish the significance of 
both the campuswide ceremony and 
the individual college ceremonies. 
“People will have differing opin -
ions on which ceremony they find 
to be the most official or important, ” 
Qin said. “My initial worry is that 
it would unnecessarily divide the 
weight of importance of one event into two. ”
In 2008, the university estab -
lished the All-Campus Graduation 
Ceremony — a free, informal event 
that allows all graduating students, 
as well as their friends and families, 
the opportunity to celebrate gradu -
ation together — to kick off com -
mencement weekend. As a result 
of the addition of a campuswide 
commencement, the university will 
discontinue the ACGC after 2015. N EWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 26, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
Looking for the 
New Business 
Column?
Now posted every Wednesday 
night, after the A.S. Council 
meeting, online.
ucsdguardian.orgCampuswide Graduation Celebration Will Be Cancelled After 2015
▶ COMMENCEMENT,  from page 1
Jacky to   j6to@ucsd.edu readers can contact
Center Will Accept Corporate Sponsorship from Outside Businesses
▶ RADY ,  from page 1
Kriti Sarin   ksarin@ucsd.edu readers can contact
and give teams allocated time slots 
to perform. ”
The event’s Facebook page 
originally cited the night as 
the beginning of ticket sales for 
the Fusion XV Hip-Hop Dance 
Competition, scheduled to take 
place at UCSD on April 18, 2015. 
The actual starting date of ticket 
sales will be announced soon, according to its coordinators, and 
tickets will be available at the UCSD 
Box Office. 
Eleanor Roosevelt College 
sophomore and member of the 
FUSION marketing team Jerin Tan 
feels that the campus’ participation 
serves to unite and inspire the 
UCSD dance community.
“Fusion is a wonderful event 
that not only brings the UCSD 
dance community together, but also connects us to dancers from San 
Diego and other parts of California, ” 
Tan told the Guardian. “This allows 
us to both showcase the great 
talent of UCSD students and get 
more exposure to the creativity of 
other groups outside of our school, 
which is a great opportunity for our 
dancers. ”Official Dance Competition Ticket Sales Expected to Begin Soon 
▶ FUSION,  from page 1
Br ynna bol t   bbolt@ucsd.edu readers can contact4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 26, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CHARU  MEHRA
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Uber Will
Prevail,
Despite
Restrictions
Uber is the future, and the 
future is now, but a group of 
neo-Luddites seeks to keep 
us chained to 20th century inconve -
nience. Entrenched taxi interests have 
viciously opposed app-based rideshar -
ing companies like Uber and its com -
petitors and are using every trick in 
the book in order to disrupt them.
But resistance is futile, at least in 
the United States. A 2014 Anzalone 
Liszt Grove Research study found 
that 60 percent of Illinois voters agree 
that “Uber should not be required 
to do more than it does now. ” A 
similar result was found in a Portland 
Business Journal Poll, likely caused 
by consumer agitation over Portland’s 
decision to sue Uber, which resulted 
in the suspension of the company’s 
operations there since December. 
Mothers Against Drunk Driving 
has also found that Uber’s innova -
tion helps reduce drunk driving. 
Furthermore, economists across the 
ideological spectrum agree that “let -
ting car services such as Uber or Lyft 
compete with taxi firms … raises con -
sumer welfare, ” according to the most 
recent IGM Economics Experts Panel.
Most notably, the Seattle City 
Council in March 2014 voted to cap 
the number of drivers ridesharing 
companies could hire to 150 drivers 
per service. City councilwoman and 
unapologetic socialist Kshama Sawant 
argued that this was done to protect 
taxi drivers, however, an enormous 
backlash occurred, resulting in a sus -
pension of the ordinance after 36,000 
signatures resulted in a referendum. 
For those uninformed about Uber, 
the beauty of its services lies in the 
simplicity of it all. The company is 
very 21st century: GPS technology 
is used in order to find drivers and 
arrange routes, social networking 
comes into play to hold both drivers 
and customers accountable by a rat -
ing system and all of this is linked 
through smartphones to ensure 
easy access.
As far as pricing goes, it’s basic 
economics. During times of high 
demand, prices rise in order to 
increase the supply of drivers and 
push demand back down in the long 
run, whereas times of low demand 
will decrease the supply of drivers but 
also decrease prices, which will even -
tually push demand back up.
But as simple as all this is, many 
politicians don’t get it, especially those 
of the European variety. The French 
government has been undeniably hos -
tile to Uber by fining the company for 
advertising, shutting them down for 
the 2015 New Y ear, restricting drivers 
to a 15-minute wait after respond -
ing to a request and expressing little 
interest in attacks on Uber vehicles by 
disgruntled taxi protesters. Spain is no 
better and has banned the company 
from operating its ridesharing service 
altogether. But I suppose when you 
have a joke unemployment rate of 
10.3 and 23.7 percent, respectively, 
such anti-business policies aren’t really 
surprising anymore.
If we listened to the Luddites 200 
years ago, we would have prevented 
arguably the most important event in 
history — the Industrial Revolution. 
It would be a shame if we did so now. 
The convenience brought by flexible 
ridesharing companies far outweighs 
appeasing taxi unions and shameless -
ly-bought politicians who whack off to 
decades of dated transportation policy.Aleksandra Konstantinovic
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Andrew E. Huang
MANAGING EDITOR
Taylor Sanderson
MANAGING EDITOR  
Charu Mehra
OPINION EDITOR
Cassia Pollock
ASSOCIATE OPINION EDITOR
Tina Butoiu
NEWS EDITOR
Kriti Sarin
ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITOR
Kyle Somers
ASSOCIATE A&E EDITOR
The UCSD Guardian is published twice weekly at the 
University of California at San Diego. Contents © 2014. 
Views expressed herein represent the majority vote of the edi -
torial board and are not necessarily those of the UC Board of 
Regents, the ASUCSD or the members of the Guardian staff. EDITORIAL  BOARD
The Tuition Game
Last week, University of California students 
received some rare good news from the 
Office of the President. Despite the UC 
Board of Regents’ vote to raise tuition by 5 
percent over the next five years, President Janet 
Napolitano has temporarily delayed the increase, 
which was set to take effect starting during the 
2015 summer session.
Taking this decision solely at face value, we 
approve wholeheartedly. The UC administrators 
should have better financial management skills 
than the average freshman who is texting mom 
and dad for more money. It’s high time they 
learn some fiscal responsibility instead of trying 
to justify gratuitous pay raises for top-tier staff 
while levying unconscionable tuition hikes on 
students. Not just delaying, but also doing away 
with the 5 percent plan entirely would be the 
right move on UCOP’s part. 
Furthermore, we are proud of the student 
activism across all nine UC campuses and at 
November’s Board of Regents meeting, which 
caused enough ruckus to lead to this decision. 
The UC Student Association deserves special 
credit for learning about the tuition hike plan 
early and organizing protests and petitions 
throughout the schools. The Board may have 
acted against our wishes anyway, but the united 
and persistent response from students got the 
attention of key state legislators, including Gov. 
Brown and Lt. Gov. Newsom, who stood in 
solidarity with students. 
Unfortunately, the relationship between the California lawmakers and the UC system brings 
us to our first gripe about Napolitano’s decision.
It’s clear from the wording of the decision 
that its fate rests on the so-called negotiations 
between the state and the university system. 
Since Gov. Brown announced his budget last 
year, the UC administration has known it 
would be several million dollars short of what 
it requested from the state. And with Brown 
vetoing a promised $50 million bonus to the UC 
system, it’s clear there is lingering antagonism on 
both sides.
Each party has dug its heels in the ground 
before, with Brown admonishing the UC 
system for being unwilling or unable to reign 
in its finances, and the University of California 
retorting, probably unintentionally in a 
supervillain-like manner, that students will see 
tuition hikes unless its multimillion-dollar 
demands are met.
The fact that Gov. Brown and the legislature 
are even willing to negotiate despite the 
animosity speaks to the strength of the 
backlash against tuition hikes from students 
and their families. 
But what this wording and this process 
say is clear: According to UCOP , students 
are bargaining chips that can be used against 
the state government to extort more money. 
The people in charge of the university system 
refuse to take responsibility for students’ UC President Napolitano put a temporary hold on the proposed systemwide 
tuition hikes, but the move brings mixed feelings from students. EDITORIALSILLUSTRATION BY ELYSE YANG
The Campuswide Commencement Planning 
Committee has created a model for the 2016 com -
mencement ceremony that will step away from the 
previous individualized ceremonies for all six resi -
dential colleges, and instead introduce a new, uni -
fied commencement for all graduating students. 
Jonathan Monk, the president of the Graduate 
Student Association, stated, “The all-campus com -
mencement will create a greater sense of UC San 
Diego community that lasts beyond graduation. ” 
We fully support the idea of a more inclusive cer -
emony that allows friends and family members 
to share the valuable bonding experience of a 
single commencement. The Associated Students 
Concerts and Events Festivals Director Sean 
Kennedy, said, “College is a mix of so many dif -
ferent experiences that were shared with so many 
members of the UC San Diego community. ” 
He continued to explain that the ‘grand finale’ 
event deserves to be collectively enjoyed as a 
unified group. 
We appreciate these sentiments, although there 
are some potential challenges. One particular 
concern is how much this new design will add to the length of the ceremony. If the average cer -
emony takes a couple hours per individual college, 
how can this all-inclusive ceremony avoid being 
extremely time-consuming? Also, Chancellor 
Pradeep K. Khosla suggested that this new tradi -
tion will serve as the best way to honor UCSD’s 
most recent alumni. Still, it is uncertain how the 
ceremony will manage to honor new alumni in 
a way that is considerate, attentive and time effi -
cient. Individuals should not be rushed through 
the announcement and acceptance of their 
university diplomas, especially considering that 
most students have spent over a solid $100,000 
for the right to acquire a four-year degree.
It is important to take into account the lengthy 
time commitment that individuals have spent as 
students pursuing academic studies and research. 
The sheer opportunity cost of all those hours 
spent poring over books and papers will seem to 
be spent in vain if the commencement ceremony 
glosses over their perseverance in a brief second 
or two. How the new all-inclusive model for the 
ceremony can respectfully recognize each student, 
within a major time crunch, is rather difficult to imagine. If students end up being clustered into 
numbered groups to receive their college diplomas 
this would seem highly insulting and degrading to 
their academic achievements.
All of these considerations aside, the biggest 
plus of this unified ceremony is the potential for 
an actual high-profile commencement speaker. 
Just like how UC Irvine was able to get President 
Barack Obama as its speaker in 2014, and how 
UCLA has had  the CEOs of Boeing and Y ouTube 
as speakers, we will hopefully be able to pro -
cure a commencement speaker who does the 
graduating class of UCSD proper justice. Even 
the Campuswide Commencement Planning 
Committee that recommended the changes to the 
ceremony wrote that one of the primary goals of 
the switch was to “allow the campus leadership to 
identify a high-profile speaker. ” 
We are students at an internationally acclaimed 
school and our commencement ceremony will 
finally be able to reflect that. It will be the admin -
istration’s job to make sure that the event is not a 
logistical nightmare, but as long as it does that, we 
are in favor of the changes. Unified UCSD Commencement Ceremony Looks PromisingSee TUITION,  page 5jordan  utley-thomson
jutleyth@ucsd.eduguardian w a tch
OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 26, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
unhappiness and instead shrug 
their shoulders and pass it on to the 
legislature, which is surprisingly 
motivated to help, despite not 
properly obtaining student input. 
When negotiations inevitably 
break down due to  UCOP 
demanding an unfair share, the 
next wave of student protests 
should show that we’re tired of 
being chess pieces. 
Our second issue with 
Napolitano’s plan is that it’s 
temporary. No promises have been 
made about tuition beyond summer 
2015. In fact, the administration 
has made it clear that if it doesn’t 
receive additional funding, the tuition increase is definitely 
happening.
Students who were planning to 
take summer classes can breathe 
a sigh of relief, but everyone else 
should remain on the edge of their 
seats, because the 5 percent plan 
isn’t dead. It could, very realistically, 
return by Fall Quarter 2015. If 
so, this temporary delay is simply 
an arbitrary exercise of power, 
further playing with the finances 
and emotions of the students it’s 
supposed to help.
Finally, it seems oddly dictatorial 
that Napolitano’s office can 
arbitrarily issue a stay of tuition 
increases after the regents voted to 
approve it. Although Napolitano 
herself did propose the tuition increase plan, it was required to 
go through a vote before it could 
become official. For her to be able 
to stop and start it at will brings a 
sense of uncertainty to all students, 
especially since a single person 
seems to be in charge of the price of 
their education.
The mishandling of the 
University of California’s finances 
ranges from irresponsible, like 
unjustified pay raises for chancellors, 
to borderline criminal, like the UC 
SHIP fiasco. Raising tuition by such 
an exorbitant amount is a burden 
on those who didn’t create the UC 
system’s financial troubles. A better, 
though unlikely, first step might be 
cutting down the six-figure salaries 
drawn from our tuition money.
Politicians and UC Leadership Must Prioritize Students Over Salaries
▶ TUITION  from page 4GOT ISSUES?
BE HEARD
BY YOUR PEERS!SEND YOUR 
LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGCONFUSED MUSE  By Elyse Yang  GUARDIAN
CHOICE
AWARDS
Arts & Entertainment Editor: Jacqueline Kim  •  entertainment@ucsdguardian.org
                 Lifestyle Editor: Nilu Karimi  •  lifestyle@ucsdguardian.orgWEEKEND PRESENTS
 THE
THE OSCARS MAY HAVE BEEN HANDED OUT, BUT THAT DOESN’T MEAN AWARDS SEASON IS OVER JUST YET. HERE ARE 
OUR ANNUAL GUARDIAN’S CHOICE AWARDS, THE PRIZES HOLLYWOOD WAS TOO AFRAID TO GIVE. 
MOST AWESOME FILM: “THE LEGO MOVIE”
MOST OVERLOOKED PERFORMANCE:
EVAN BIRD FOR “MAPS TO THE STARS”Like a neighbor who always keeps 
an axe, a shovel and a tarp in his trunk, 
a movie based on a toy is bound to draw 
some suspicion. Of course, when “The 
Lego Movie” came out, those suspicions 
surrounding it faded fast because, in 
addition to not falling into the potential 
cliches of movies based on toys, it was 
exceptionally novel by the standards 
of any animated film.
And even without its original -
ity, “The Lego Movie” has plenty 
going for it. There are over a 
dozen famous stars appearing in 
the cast, the full version of the theme song features The Lonely Island and 
it’s written a bit like if someone took 
the kinds of humor and antics in 
“The Avengers” and made a whole 
movie out of it. It also plays with 
themes, like dystopian societies and 
super corporations that give a wink 
and nudge to adult viewers who read 
“1984” without detracting from the giddy 
feel of the film. Considering all aspects of 
“The Lego Movie,” it’s only fair to say 
that everything about it is awesome.
Evan Bird’s performance in David Cronenberg’s deliciously funny 
satire “Maps to the Stars” is an explicit answer to the following ques -
tion: What’s it like to be Lindsay Lohan? Five minutes into the film we 
realize that it’s fucked up — really, really fucked up. Bird’s Benjie takes 
the world of a child celebrity and projects it as a frightening dystopia, a 
nightmare of such Bieber-esque proportions that there’s nothing else to 
do other than laugh. We laugh at him and his pathetic existence; we mock 
his suffering and rejoice in his mistakes. But Benjie doesn’t seem to care 
much. He’s too preoccupied with his money and drugs and exotic mas -
sages to realize that he’s in hell.
Bird is absolutely brilliant. He manages to synthesize all the child ce -
lebrities that we so deeply hate (and love) into one spirited character that 
never fails to engage and provoke. Because amidst all our laughter, the 
question slowly emerges in our mind: How is it that we derive so much 
pleasure out of the misery of a 14-year-old? That, too, is fucked up. “Like ‘Gravity’ but actually fun to watch” and 
“like ‘Gravity’ but more pretentious” pretty much 
summarize the two main camps of “Interstellar” 
opinions. On one hand, some find that the excite -
ment, visual creativity and attention to scientific 
accuracy complement the complexity of the plot. 
Others disagree, saying the film is bloated with 
themes that weren’t properly expanded upon and 
that the plot was too difficult to follow, distracting 
from the movie’s enjoyability.Likely, the plethora of science students at 
UCSD are going to lean toward the first group, 
geeking out over the depictions of wormholes, 
relativity, fluid physics near black holes and 
acceleration as a factor in high-speed chases in 
space. But for those too turned off by the cringe-
worthiness of “love transcends space-time,” it’s 
probably not worth watching Matthew McCo -
naughey cry in space.—       kyle  somers  associate a&e editor
—       kyle  somers  associate a&e editor
—       mario  a ttie   editorial assistantMOST DIVISIVE FILM: “INTERSTELLAR”
I AM GROOT
I am groot.
—       i  am  groot    i am groot
PHOTO COURTESY OF INDIEWIREPHOTO COURTESY OF GRISTPHOTO COURTESY OF WB PICTURESPHOTO COURTESY OF NEW YORK 
POST
DESIGN BY
SHERMAN ALINEWEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 26, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
Inside Out
The Faces of Mass Incarceration
There will be a discussion about
mass incarceration in the United States and ways to organize against the Prison Industrial Complex. Food will be provided.Thursday, February 26thDolores Huerta - Philip Vera Cruz Room
For more information on this project please contactIn this day and age, mass incarceration has evolved into a phenomenon that affects not only family and 
friends who are currently imprisoned, but also the rest of us that create and maintain society. The United States currently imprisons more people than any other country in the world, a majority of whom are people of color. This Inside Out project seeks to give face to those of us who bear the lasting and horrific outcomes of the modern prison, and to raise awareness of the fact that students, workers, professors, and children are also directly affected by the Prison Industrial Complex. This project hopes to humanize the faces that 
have otherwise been dehumanized by the state and to ignite a collective urgency in organizing against the 
Prison Industrial Complex.
Students Against Mass Incarceration
Email: sami.ucsd@gmail.comFacebook: /StudentsAgainstMassIncarcerationUCSDNadia Lopez (A.S. Campus Wide Senator)Phone: 951-201-7032Email: nal007@ucsd.edu
BY ALLISON KUBO STAFF WRITERHONORABLE
MENTIONS
GOOD LOOKING
CHRIS AWARD
SHOULD-HAVE-READ-
THE-BOOK-FIRST AWARD
WORST RATIO OF BENEDICT  
CUMBERBATCH SCREEN 
TIME TO FILM LENGTH
YOU-THOUGHT-IT-WAS-
“HUNGER GAMES”-BUT-
IT-WASN’T AWARDMOST UNDERRATED FILM: “ENEMY”
“The Interview” is, by some measurements, the most controversial movie of all 
time. It’s certainly led to more friction between major countries than any other film, 
and even months after its release, the fallout from the Sony hacking scandal associated 
with the film is still tapering off.
And this all makes sense because, even getting 
past the plot premise of trying to kill Kim Jong-un, 
“The Interview” is at least as offensive as any 
other Rogen-Franco production. If Seth Rogen 
waving his dick at North Korean security officers 
isn’t over the line, then how about a scene where 
Kim Jong-un cries and “sharts” (Check out Ur -
ban Dictionary if you don’t know) 
himself? Regardless of whether or 
not you find “The Interview” to 
be funny, congrats to Rogen and 
Franco for making a comedy 
so controversial that it was 
publicly addressed by the 
president.Three-way tie between Chris Evans 
for “Captain America: The Winter 
Soldier, ” Chris Pratt for “Guardians 
of the Galaxy” and Chris Pine for 
“Into the Woods”
“Gone Girl”
“The Hobbit: Battle of the Five Armies”
“Divergent”—       kyle  somers
 associate a&e editorBEST USE OF YOUR FIRST AMENDMENT RIGHTS: 
“THE INTERVIEW”  You may have to watch it a few times to really get it, but 
once you understand “Enemy,” you’ll realize how brilliant 
the film is. Jake Gyllenhaal gives a sensitive and nuanced 
performance as Adam Bell, a history professor who finds out 
that there is an actor, Daniel St. Claire, who looks exactly like 
him. Not many people seem to have seen this film, but if more 
had, then it would be unanimous that “Enemy” is a carefully 
wrought artistic masterpiece. It’s an unsettling movie that 
builds consistent tension through interspersed, creepy spider 
imagery and Adam and Daniel’s growing enmity. You may feel puzzled while you’re watching it — and the shocking end -
ing scene will confirm that feeling — but the film has such a 
deeply psychological premise and solution that you won’t mind 
watching it again, just to figure out its meaning. Unfortunately, 
the movie’s puzzle-like nature probably contributed to it being 
underrated and misunderstood, but if there were a prize for the 
most artistic and intelligent film of the year, “Enemy” would 
definitely win it. 
—       jennifer grundman  editorial assistant
I AM GROOT
PHOTO USED WITH PERMISSION FROM A24 FILMS
PHOTO COURTESY OF YAHOO
PHOTO COURTESY OF GRIST8     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 26, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
The Place
Located in Middletown, Culture 
Shock is San Diego’s leading 
resource for contemporary dance 
training. Take the stairs up to the 
second floor of the building and 
you will reach the center, crammed 
with narrow aisles that lead to three 
studios sitting next to each other. 
Save some extra time for parking 
before class and be prepared for a 
10-minute walk.  
The Crowd
During class hours, the front desk 
and hallway are packed with kids 
and their parents, student groups 
and other adults. There are classes 
dedicated to youths, although 
Culture Shock embraces multiple 
age groups. The middle-aged men 
and women are either experienced 
or still struggling with the moves 
and can be found in all classes. And 
in the hip-hop courses, for exam -
ple, there are numerous teenagers 
who are familiar with the basic 
moves; most of them are there for 
exposure to new phrases and just to 
play it cool. 
The Classes
Whether you are already a dance 
enthusiast or just looking for a place to exercise and have fun, 
chances are Culture Shock Dance 
Center will appeal to you in one 
way or another. The center incor -
porates all styles — from cardio 
lessons to choreography and tech -
nique classes. Levels range from 
introductory to mastery as the day 
progresses. Plus, the center is flex -
ible, so it’s easy to switch up your 
classes or take multiple at once. Be 
prepared to see new and familiar 
faces on a regular basis.
Zoom In
The Cardio Hip-Hop class:  Thursday 
from 5:30 to 6:30 p.m. 
Teacher : Taylor Grace Freiberg
Participants learn a coherent six to 
eight sets of eight beats by following 
along with the instructor. For some -
one who’s never practiced hip-hop, 
the movements were not too chal -
lenging but definitely required focus 
to connect all the dots. 
 
Beginning Hip-Hop : Thursday from 
6:30 to 7:30 p.m.
Teacher : David “Darkie” Simmons
This was a completely different 
experience. Without the foundation 
from Intro to Hip Hop —  the basic building block moves — Darkie’s 
fast-paced instruction required more 
concentration. From what I saw, only 
about one-third of the group dem -
onstrated prior experience with hip-
hop and could pull it off. In contrast 
to the Cardio Hip-Hop, this course 
is geared toward students who are 
better acquainted with dancing. The 
best part about David Darkie’s les -
son? After learning the moves, the 
class divides into teams and a dance 
battle ensues. Confidence and cheers 
are highly recommended. 
The Music : Loud and energetic, the 
music kept the participants on the 
beat. But keep in mind that in such 
a boisterous environment, meeting 
new people and chatting does not 
seem feasible. 
Getting In : Culture Shock’s classes 
are all one-hour long, with the high -
est rate at $15 per drop-in. And 
while prices fall if you purchase 
packages or an unlimited class pass, 
some dance enthusiasts I met said 
the rate was still too high, even with 
class passes.
—    Yulin    Liu
Staff writer
Some honesty: Exploration-based games can be lame. Often 
they’re the result of a narcissistic game designer and an 
overworked 3-D modeling team, and they don’t tend to 
hold gamers’ interests. But “Sunless Sea” isn’t like those games. 
It’s creepy and gripping, a true nail-biter of an exploration game, 
using intense gameplay to weave a vivid imagination into some -
thing much more than creativity for creativity’s sake.
The basic gameplay is fairly simple. Y ou start with a boat, a 
blank map and a little cash, and you need to sail around to other 
islands to make more money, find supplies and treasures, smuggle, 
decimate your enemies, fill in the map and have an adventure. If 
you play it too safe and stay near your home port, you won’t make 
the money you need to fuel your ship and feed the crew, and you’ll sink or starve. On the flip side, if you venture out too far, you’ll 
run out of supplies or get blown to bits by pirates or eaten by often 
untouchably powerful sea monsters.
And death carries a heavy toll — you literally start back at the 
beginning of the entire game (though there is an easy mode for 
those of you who don’t like games more challenging than “Candy 
Crush Saga”). Not unlike electroshock therapy, it punishes you 
hard for your mistakes, but the game isn’t difficult to the point of 
being unfair. After an hour or two of accidentally sinking your 
ship into the black abyss, you should have things down pat. It’s no 
coincidence that the producers are called Failbetter Games.
The restart-upon-death mechanic puts fear and apprehension 
into the player, and, because of that, everything becomes much 
more terrifying, which matches the Lovecraftian-horror feel to the 
game. There are cryptic gods, haunted battleships and giant crab-
monsters, and if death didn’t carry a heavy weight the adventure 
wouldn’t be so damn suspenseful and intriguing. The terror is 
compounded by a rich backdrop and vivid storytelling, much of 
which is done through text once you land at a port. Granted, few people in the year 2015 would want to play an, at times, text-heavy 
adventure game, but when the creepiest shit goes down at ports 
on the far edges of the map, the developers understood that the 
scene playing out in your mind is much more horrifying than an 
attempt at portraying it using 2-D animation.
All of these game mechanics ultimately support the vast 
amount of imagination that went into “Sunless Sea. ” Out of the 
dozens of islands you travel to, one is run by spider worshippers, 
another by crypt people and yet another by talking monkeys. 
There is a gateway to hell, a moving mountain that can kill you, a 
mysterious device called the Dawn Machine and numerous cults 
and societies that you can meet and spy on and work for. “Sunless 
Sea” sets the stage for the kind of spectacular world you might 
read about in your favorite fantasy book, the kind of book you 
would read all the time wishing you could explore the world your -
self. Good news: This time you can.
—   kyle somers
Associate a&E EditorGAME   REVIEW
Release Date Feb. 6  Challenging exploration game brings vivid 
Lovecraftian-horror world to life.
SUNLESS  SEA
ucsdguardian.org/jobsSour  soul
by  BADBADNOTGOOD  
&  Ghostf ace  Killah
Release Date Feb.  23
Inspired vision for genre crossover mostly falls flat 
despite talent.ALBUM   REVIEW
It’s about damn time that rap 
and jazz got together and had 
a baby. And not in the way 
some rap has had jazz influences 
like A Tribe Called Quest or some 
jazz groups incorporate hip-hop 
elements a la Snarky Puppy. “Sour 
Soul” is Ghostface Killah and jazz 
trio BADBADNOTGOOD mixing 
real rap and proper jazz 50-50, no 
compromises, no apologies. But 
given that the two genres have been 
inching toward each other for years, 
one might expect the execution to 
be a little more on-point.
The implications of the genre 
mixing on “Sour Soul” are juicy, so 
why not get the one negative aspect 
of the album out of the way right 
now: It’s inconsistent. Specifically, 
the verses aren’t always particularly 
memorable, and the harmonies are 
sometimes lackluster given BBNG’s 
tendency for bombastic innova -
tion. To see these shortcomings on 
full display, listen to “Nuggets of 
Wisdom, ” “Tones Rap” or “Food” 
— all unpolished gems in nearly all 
aspects of the music, giving a peek at 
their potential but ultimately offering 
nothing of particular interest sonical -
ly or lyrically. Here, it feels like Mr. 
Killah talks a lot but doesn’t really 
say anything and as if BBNG showed 
up and just noodled around on their 
instruments without the dramatic 
builds and drops that have character -
ized their sound in the past.
At the same time, “Sour Soul” 
is something to be excited about because it gives us a look at the 
potential of what rap and jazz can 
do together, and that glimpse is 
clearest on the lead single, “Ray 
Gun. ” The verses dance along to 
a smoky ‘70s-style beat while the 
lyrics get comic-book-esque in the 
second verse (“These dudes is toys 
like Wham-O”), rapped by featured 
artist MF DOOM. The last minute 
or so is a trombone-fueled trip-fest, 
taking the track to an unexpected 
yet fitting place.
And “Ray Gun” isn’t the only 
song to flip modern music on its 
head in a cool way. All the songs 
with featured artists are worth 
more than a few listens, like Elzhi 
rapping over moaning guitars on 
“Gunshowers” and the gangsta-as-
hell Danny Brown verse on “Six 
Degrees. ” The little instrumentals 
tying the album together are a 
nice touch, as well, lending more 
context to the somewhat scattered 
quality of the songs. BADBANOT -
GOOD has always worked without 
a sense of quality control, and that’s 
what has allowed them to innovate, 
but as they mature, it wouldn’t hurt 
to temper that innovation with a 
little more consistency. But this 
album still calls for a little celebra -
tion: The future of music is here, 
and it’s thoroughly decent.
—    Kyle  somers
associate a&e editorSCREENSHOTS COURTESY OF FAILBETTER GAMES
CUL TURE  SHOCK  DANCE  CENTER
CONTACT:
619-299-2110LOCATION:
2110 Hancock St #200
San Diego, CA 92110PHOTO BY YULIN LIU/ GUARDIAN
PHOTO COURTESY OF LOREN WOHL
PHOTO BY YULIN LIU/ GUARDIANPlatforms PC and Mac  Single PlayerWEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 26, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
REAPPLY FOR
FINANCIAL AID 2015-16
MARCH 2, 20 15Priority Deadline for f iling the
FAFSA or  CAL Dr eam Act Applicat ion is:
www.fafsa.govUse UCSD school code 001317.
Use UCS D scho ol code 001 317. www.CalDreamAct .org
If you need assistance, please cont act the Financial Aid O ffice at ( 858) 534- 4480.If you have no t yet complet ed your 2014 ta x return, estimate th e amoun ts and then update your 
via www .fafsa.gov.  California Dream Act Application can upda te your est imates at 
www .CalDreamA ct.org.
   Studen ts who are U.S. Citizens or P ermanent Residents
can submit the FAFSA online at: 
Studen ts w ho are AB54 0 eligible and who ar e not eligible t o submit a  FAFSA,
can submit th e California Dream Act Applic ation at:OR10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 26, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
CLASSIFIEDS$
Guar dian Classi/f_ieds ar e FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifieds
BIKES
Electra Townie 21d Suspension - $590. 
Brand new 21 speed. Townie 21d suspen -
sion with quick release mounted on seat 
and both wheels for easy loading and trav -
el. Rear rack and Giant rear bag that opens 
to hold everything you might want to carry 
at the beach or mountain trail. Listing ID: 
125416630 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Specialized Vita Medium Women’s Bike - 
$400. Specialized Vita medium women’s 
bike. White with red trim. Rarely ridden 
and like new. Listing ID: 125416629 at ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
Chicago Schwinn Breeze - $80. Women’s 
Schwinn Breeze from the 70s. All original. 
Rusty everywhere. It does ride as-is, but 
should be tuned and lubed. The tubes 
hold air, the wheels are straight, and the 
Sturmey-Archer three speed is functional. 
Listing ID: 125416627 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
ELECTRONICS
74 Light Fixtures - $5 each. I have a quantity 
of 68 (PI-1000 Par 36 Pinspot) Can Lights 
with bulbs included. All in good or new 
condition. 6 Large (Par 38b - 120Watt) light 
fixtures that are brand new. Asking only 
$5 for each light (normally $20). Or we will 
take $330 for all 68 lights and additional 
6 fixtures together. Listing ID: 125136247 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
informationHP Photosmart 8450 Digital Photo 
Inkjet Printer - $60. The Hewlett Packard 
Photosmart 8450 InkJet Printer is fully 
compatible with PC, Mac systems. This 
printer connectivity: USB 1.1. Media Type 
Banners, Envelopes, Greeting Cards, Index 
Cards, Labels, Photo Paper, Plain Paper, 
Transparencies. Media Capacity: 100 
Sheets. Memory installed: RAM 64 MB Max. 
Memory 64 with ink and paper. Listing ID: 
125416646 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Professional Video Camera: HVX200 with 
32 Gig P2 Card - $1900. I have a mint 
Panasonic HVX200 VARICAM. It’s an amaz -
ing camera, which is known for its ability to 
be overcranked or undercranked for super-
sharp slow-mo actions (great for weddings 
and special events for that unique look). 
I’m including a 32 gig P2 card. This is an 
awesome deal, considering how expen -
sive P2 cards are. Listing ID: 124521895 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
BOATS
28’ 1973 ChrisCraft Lancer Fly Bridge - 
$5000. Boat has a very solid hull (great rid -
ing). Chevy 383ci Stroker Motor (runs well). 
Tandem axle trailer. All covers in attractive 
shape. Bottom paint in attractive shape. 
Some TLC and a few upgrades and you 
have a great San Diego fishing boat. Listing 
ID: 125416725 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
1986 Ocean Alexander 48 Yacht - $199900. 
1986 Ocean Alexander 48 up for sale. This 
sedan yacht is 48.5’(54’LOA), beam of 15.3’ and a draft of 9’ . Featuring twin Cummins 
VT-555M turbo diesels with 2400 original 
hours on the meters, Onan 8kw genset, full 
electronics package, 10’ Bullfrog unsink -
able RIB w/ 15 hp 4-stroke Mercury out -
board, bow and stern thrusters. This ves -
sel has been professionally maintained by 
dedicated owners and is in outstanding 
shape for an older Ocean Alexander. You 
would be hard pressed to find a 10 yr. old 
yacht that is in this condition. Listing ID: 
125416724 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Sunset Ski Boat/Trailer with extras. 
Everything works and runs great. - $6550. 
This is a great ski boat. This boat has always 
been garaged as in exceptional condition. 
Ready to go. Trailer is also in like-new con -
dition, was recently painted and has locks 
and spare wheel and tire. Great for the river 
or Mission Bay. Registration paid into 2015. 
Listing ID: 125416723 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
t
your visio n,
our missio n.
outfitters@ucsd.eduCreate custom a pparel to 
promote your student 
organiza tion with Triton 
Outfitter's new Made TO Order program!
.com/ucsdguardian
.com/ucsdguardian
Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies 
on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.ukLevel: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
Level:
12
34Level:
12
34Level: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
SUDOKU
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 26, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
on a sacrifice fly by Clewett in the 
third inning. Stanislaus attempted 
to counter in the fifth inning, 
but two tag outs at home plate by 
UCSD shut down the Warriors’ 
effort. The Warriors managed to 
tie up the score in the next inning, 
however, with an unearned run off 
of a throwing error by Duarte.The Tritons responded with a 
clutch run by Phillips in the top of 
the seventh, securing the victory 
and the series for UCSD.
While establishing a near-
flawless start to the season, the 
Tritons will meet their greatest 
challenge yet this Friday and 
Saturday, as they face off against 
CCAA leader and No. 3 Cal 
State Monterey Bay. Friday’s doubleheader will begin at noon, 
while gameplay will begin at 11 
a.m. on Saturday. 
“We’re just out to compete, ” 
Gerckens said. “There are no easy 
teams in our conference and we 
will have to compete every game in 
order to win. ” 
Baseball Falls in National Rankings, Will Next Face CSUEB
many at-bats, racking up three RBIs 
and two runs. 
Game four saw the Tritons fall in 
the seven-inning nightcap, earning 
their first loss on the road this season. 
Cruz (1–2) and senior southpaw 
Chad Rieser (0–0) doubled-up on the 
mound for the loss. 
Cruz allowed the Toros’ three runs 
off of eight hits across his 4.2 innings 
on the dirt. Rieser sat down all seven 
batters he faced in the remaining ac -
tion and tallied his 16th strikeout for 
the year, but UCSD’s offense could not 
overcome the deficit. 
“We got beat in the second game 
[on Saturday], ” UCSD head coach Eric 
Newman told the UCSD Athletics De -partment. “We didn’t play real well last 
Sunday and we didn’t pitch too well 
on Tuesday but we sat down and had a 
talk about it — we’re not the team we 
want to be just yet, but we’re learning 
from these opportunities. ”
The Tritons lost again 6–2 in a 
standalone road game against Azusa 
Pacific University on 
Tuesday. Kolodin threw for five 
with two runs on four hits. Senior 
infielder Erik Lewis continued his 
39-game streak of reaching base with 
a walk in the first inning. The Cougars’ 
junior right-hander, and Major League 
Baseball prospect, made life difficult 
for Triton runners and only allowed 
one earned run on the night despite 
some difficulty on the mound early on.
As of Monday, Feb. 23, UCSD fell from No. 10 to No. 17 in the Col -
legiate Baseball Newspaper’s NCAA 
Division-II ranking poll. The slippage 
comes after a loss to cross-town rival 
Point Loma Nazarene University at 
Triton Ballpark before the Dominguez 
Hills series — a game the Tritons were 
expected to win. UCSD is now in 
fourth place in CCAA standings, only 
behind teams that started league play 
a week behind the Tritons and are still 
undefeated.
UCSD will remain on the road for 
more CCAA action against Cal State 
East Bay this weekend. The four-game 
series is set to open on Friday at 2 p.m. 
in Hayward.▶ BASEBALL,  from page 12Big Matchup Upcoming Against No. 3 Cal State Monterey Bay
▶ SOFTBALL ,  from page 12
readers can contact
ka tie potts    kpotts@ucsd.edu 
has come through with tremen -
dous performances, ” Runyan told 
the Guardian. “David Hadler is an 
amazing talent on our team — he 
has both national rankings and 
conference rankings. He had a very 
good day with very solid perfor -
mances against top performers from 
UCLA and USC who were also very high level fencers. ”
Following this perfect perfor -
mance at the IFCSC, the UCSD 
fencing team will now prepare for 
the journey to the national stage. The 
Tritons will host the NCAA West Re -
gionals on Saturday, March 7 at 9 a.m. 
before looking toward a potential 
NCAA Championship appearance in 
Columbus, Ohio, in mid-March. 
“We have a couple people who have a chance to get through to 
the national championship, but the 
competition is big, ” Runyan said. 
“I have to stress how hard it will be 
in this tournament with some very 
highly nationally ranked fencers, with 
several previous national champions 
that came out of our region. ”Tritons Will Try to Qualify for Nationals at NCAA Regionals 
▶ FENCING,  from page 12readers can contact
john  stor y   jstory@ucsd.edu 
readers can contact
gurkira t  singh   gsingh@ucsd.edu SPORTS  CLUBS
Women’s Rugby : The UCSD women’s rugby team faced a tough doubleheader 
in Arizona this past weekend. Despite the bad quality of the field, the team 
came out hard and won 19–5 against Arizona State University. In the second 
game of the weekend, University of Arizona came out and stunned UCSD with 
three quick tries. However, UCSD fought back and ended up winning by a 
comfortable 39–21 margin, scoring seven tries. The team remains undefeated 
over the season and is looking to extend its winning streak with the next set of 
league games.COMPILED BY BRITTNEY VIERRA
Women’s Water Polo:  The women’s club water polo team had its first 
tournament of the season last weekend at San Diego State University. The 
team started off well with an 18–14 win against Cal State San Bernardino 
in overtime. The second game of the tournament was close as well, but 
ended in a 10–9 loss to Arizona State University. On the second day of the 
tournament, UCSD lost back-to-back games to UC Irvine and SDSU. The 
Tritons held a lead until the fourth quarter, when the Anteaters equalized 
to take the game into overtime. UCSD could not get the win in overtime, 
losing 9–6. The Tritons also fell in the last game of the tournament 
to SDSU by a 10–6 final score. The Tritons now look toward the next 
tournament at Arizona State this week.
Roller Hockey: The UCSD Roller Hockey Club finished out the regular season 
over the weekend with three wins and the number one seed in the division, its 
best regular season finish since 2009. In the first game of the day, the Tritons 
faced off against the Division-III Claremont Centaurs and took a dominant 
11–1 victory. In the second game of the day, the Tritons battled the defending 
National Collegiate Roller Hockey Association Division-II Champion Cal State 
Fullerton. UCSD took the lead early, but Fullerton mustered a late comeback 
and tied the game up at four with one minute remaining. However, UCSD’s 
senior Kevin Zhang quickly scored in the final moments to give the Tritons 
a 5–4 lead and the win. In the last game of the day, UCSD took on UC Santa 
Cruz. The Tritons were able to battle against the strong opponent and win 
3–2, finishing their season with a near-perfect 15–1 record. They look to 
continue their success in the Western Collegiate Roller Hockey League Regional 
Tournament on Feb. 28 in Corona, California.
Men’s Volleyball: UCSD Men’s Club Volleyball traveled to UC Davis for the 
annual Far Westerns Tournament. UCSD easily took down UC Davis, University 
of Washington and University of Nevada, Reno as the second seed in its pool. 
The Tritons fell in two sets in the last game of the pool. On the second day, the 
Tritons had to finish in the top two to advance to the Gold bracket. UCSD first 
fell to Stanford in the tie-breaking set. In the second game against top-seed 
Air Force, UCSD fell behind early in the first set and failed to generate enough 
offense to get much going, with Air Force eventually winning in two sets. The 
Tritons entered the Silver bracket and, with a few lineup changes, fell to Cal State 
Sacramento in the first round. SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
BRANDON  YU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 26, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
The No. 17 Triton baseball team 
clinched its first road series of the 
2015 campaign against Cal State 
Dominguez Hills over the weekend, 
winning three games of a four-game 
series that was played half in Carson 
and half at the Triton Ballpark. UCSD 
amazingly shut out the Toros in the 
first three games 12–0, 2–0 and 19–0, 
respectively, but fell 3–1 in the seven-
inning nightcap of Saturday’s double -
header. Following the loss, the Tritons 
fell 6–2 in a one-game matchup loss 
to No. 22 Azusa Pacific University            
on Tuesday.
The three-game shutout streak 
against Dominguez Hills appears to be 
the longest such streak in the history 
of UCSD baseball. After the last five 
games, the Tritons stand at 10–6 over -
all and 6–2 in California Collegiate 
Athletic Association contests. 
Junior right-hander Justin Dona -
tella (2–1) threw the first road game of 
2015 in Carson, producing six shutout 
frames and lowering his ERA to an 
impeccable 0.56 on the year. A total of 
eight Tritons crossed the plate to mass 
the 12 runs with sophomore outfielder Jack Larsen racking up the most at 
three runs. Larsen also contributed 
three hits on four at-bats and three 
RBIs in the blowout effort. 
Senior pitchers Trevor Scott (3–1) 
and Dan Kolodin (2–1) shared in -
nings on the mound in Friday’s 2–0 
win. Kolodin tallied his first save of 
the year, retiring six batters across his 
two innings, while Scott took the first 
seven frames and allowed seven hits 
on 24 at-bats.On Saturday, UCSD returned to 
Triton Ballpark to finish the series. 
The 19-run blowout in the third game 
of the series marked the Tritons’ 
highest scoring total of the year thus 
far. Thirteen of those runs came in the 
first four frames alone and a total of 12 
Tritons crossed the plate. Junior right-
hander Troy Cruz had nearly a perfect 
night on the plate with four hits on as 
Success Continues on RoadSOFTBALL
Eleven-game win streak ends, but UCSD takes three of four at CSUS.
BY KATIE POTTS CONTRIBUTING WRITER // PHOTO BY CORY WONG
On the road for the first time this 
season, the UCSD softball team added 
three more wins to its sterling record 
this weekend against conference opponent Cal 
State Stanislaus. Despite a disappointing 6–1 
defeat in the opener that ended its 11-game 
winning streak, UCSD battled back with three 
straight victories to clinch the series. 
“To win three out of four games against any 
team in our conference is respectable, ” UCSD 
head coach Patti Gerckens told the UCSD 
Guardian. “Though it wasn’t our best, we won, 
and that’s all that matters. ”
Cal State Stanislaus took a decisive lead 
early on in the first game on Friday. The 
Warriors were able to score six runs in the 
bottom of the first before junior pitcher 
Hannah Duarte struck out their leadoff batter 
to end the opening onslaught. Duarte dug in 
for the next five innings, giving up only one hit 
for the remainder of the game, but the deficit 
from the first frame ultimately proved too 
much for the Tritons to overcome. 
UCSD made its final attempt to even 
the score in the seventh inning — freshman 
outfielder Kendall Baker scored off a throwing 
error, notching one run on the scoreboard for the Tritons. However, a fly-out ended the 
game for the blue and gold, marking its first 
conference loss of the year. 
After the tough start, the team entered the 
second game of Friday’s doubleheader with a 
new mindset. 
“Our goals were to make adjustments at 
the plate and play the way we know how to 
play instead of going down to the level of the 
opponent, ” freshman second baseman Kendall 
Woken said.
UCSD stacked up three runs in the third 
inning to take its first lead of the series before 
junior second baseman McKenna Clewett 
increased the lead to four with a home 
run to left field in the fifth inning. Senior 
infielder Lauren Irish scored on a sacrifice 
fly by freshman outfielder Kelsi Maday in 
the sixth inning, posting one last run on the 
board for UCSD to secure a 5–0 shutout over                 
the Warriors. 
UCSD returned to Warrior Softball Field 
on Saturday and clinched close wins in 
both games, taking game one 6–5 and game           
two 2–1. 
The Tritons gained an early lead in the first 
game on Saturday. Clewett scored the first run for the team in the first inning, and Woken’s 
grand slam home run in the fourth inning 
gave UCSD a 5–0 advantage.
“My mentality going up to bat wasn’t to 
try and hit one over, but to get a base hit 
and score the runners, ” Woken said. “Of 
course after I realized the ball went over, I 
was beyond excited, and so was the rest of 
the team and the coaches. ” 
Stanislaus responded with five runs of 
its own in the bottom of the fourth inning, 
but the Tritons re-established their lead 
in the sixth inning when a walk drawn by 
junior outfielder Taylor Abeyta pushed 
freshman third baseman Rachel Phillips 
home. Duarte gave up only one hit in 
the final two innings, effectively shutting 
the Warrior offense down to secure a              
6–5 victory. 
“We did really well with battling back 
and coming back to the field even stronger 
after our first loss, ” Baker said.
UCSD earned the first run again in the 
final game of the series as Baker scored 
See SOFTBALL , page 11
BASEBALL
Baseball Records Historic Shutout Streak
Tritons shutout Toros for three complete games, won three of four to take series. 
B Y  john stor y
associate sports editor
See BASEBALL , page 11PHOTO BY SIDDHARTH ATRE / GUARDIAN FILEFENCING
Fencers Dominate IFCSCs
Full team performance clilnches 11th straight title. 
The UCSD fencing team contin -
ued its perennial domination of the 
Intercollegiate Fencing Conference of 
Southern California this past Saturday 
at UC Irvine, as the Tritons won their 
11th consecutive league title for both 
the men and women’s squads.
“We’re very proud of our team’s 
performance, ” UCSD assistant coach 
Josh Runyan said. “We thought the 
performance was excellent. In the past 
years, it wasn’t so easy to get the title, 
but this is our 11th in a row; it speaks 
for the performance. ” 
Both UCSD’s men and women 
squads won over Arizona State 
University, Pasadena City College, 
UCLA, UC Santa Barbara and the 
University of Southern California with 
wide-margin victories and finished the 
regular season of the 2015 campaign 
undefeated.
The Tritons were able to top all 
three fields of epee, foil and sabre 
against each of their competitors. 
“On the women’s epee squad, 
senior team captain Natalie Chan led 
a perfect run for her group, which 
finished the day spotless — going undefeated for the entirety of the 
six-hour tournament. Chan was ac -
companied by the women’s epee junior 
squad captain Laura Hawkins and 
teammates junior Nicole Chiang and 
freshman Keyue Bao. 
“Natalie Chan is our team’s captain, 
and she has done a really good job 
to create a squad that is better year 
after year, ” Runyan said. “She has 
also done a very solid job with Keyue 
Bao. She helped her ease the transi -
tion into the squad, and it shows in                            
the  performances. ”
From the men’s sabre, junior squad 
captain Drew Dickinson emerged 
without a single loss. He defeated all of 
his 18 challengers. 
Freshman foilist David 
Hadler, having emerged as a top                   
competitor in spite of his age this 
year, ended the season on a high note 
as he was also able to play through                                        
the tournament without suffering a 
single loss. Hadler held his ground 
while out-dueling U.S.Fencing As -
sociation “ A ”-rated foilist opponents 
from  UCLA and USC. 
“Drew has been extremely 
consistent throughout the years and B Y  GURKIRA T SINGH
staff writer             
See FENCING , page 11M. Tennis
M. Volleyball
W. Water Polo
M. Basketball
W. Basketball     1/26
     1/27
     1/27
     1/28
     1/28VS Sonoma State
VS UC Santa Barbara
VS Cal State Long Beach
VS Cal State San Bernardino
VS Cal State San BernardinoUPCOMING
UCSD
GAMES