VOLUME 48, ISSUE 23  JANUARY 12, 2015 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
 
SUN GOD 2015 
Q&A
AVP CONCERTS AND EVENTS 
SERAPHIN RAYA SITS DOWN 
WITH THE UCSD GUARDIAN 
TO DISCUSS MIDWAY EVENTS, 
NEW POLICIES AND THE 
FUTURE OF THE SUN GOD 
FESTIVAL
HOW LOW CAN THEY GO?
BASKETBALL  STREAKINGLOW GAS PRICES VS. SMART CARS
women  win  fifth  straightOPINION,  P age   4
sports,  P age  12
MONDAY
H 73 L 43TUESDAY
H 75 L 46
WEDNESDAY
H 75 L 48THURSDAY
H 75 L 45
FORECAST
VERBATIM
Begin your 
day drink -
ing at 11 
a.m. at an 
overpriced 
“drunch” 
featuring 
bottomless mimosas. There’s 
no better start to this special 
day than sugary, carbonated 
beverages that will leave you 
hungover by 4 p.m. ”
- HOW-TO-GURU
OPINION , PAGE 4
INSIDE
LIGHTS AND SIRENS.........3
QUICK TAKES  .................. 4
LANDING THE JOB  .......... 8
CALENDAR  .................... 11
TRITON VOLLEYBALL  ....12“Fea tures,  P AGE  6
ART BY JENNY PARK/ GUARDIAN
A research team from UCSD, with 
counterparts at UCLA, concluded 
that their newly-developed imaging 
technique is an improvement upon 
current prostate imaging and could 
significantly affect how patients 
with prostate cancer are treated. The 
researchers published their findings 
in the journal Prostate Cancer and 
Prostatic Diseases on Jan. 6.
The journal article indicated that 
standard magnetic resonance imaging 
of the prostate “lacks sensitivity in 
the diagnosis and staging of prostate 
cancer. ” Thus, the researchers 
developed an enhanced MRI diffusion 
technique using restriction spectrum imaging called RSI-MRI. 
Dr. Rebecca Rakow-Penner, a 
research resident in the UCSD School 
of Medicine and the study’s lead 
author, told the UCSD Guardian that 
the new RSI-MRI technique is already 
part of the standard protocol for every 
patient that gets a prostate MRI at 
UCSD and has been highly successful. 
“Our published data has been on 
a small patient population, but so far 
it has been invaluable on identifying 
cancers that were not previously 
visualized with standard MRI 
techniques, ” Rakow-Penner said.
In the study, the researchers 
evaluated 27 prostate cancer patients. 
When using standard MRI, they 
detected extraprostatic extension in 
only two of nine patients. Employing 
RSI-MRI, the researchers were able to detect EPE in eight of those same nine 
patients, as well as in the other 18.
According to assistant professor of 
radiology at UCSD and the study’s 
corresponding author, Dr. David 
Karow,  the technique is also valuable 
in surgical planning and image staging.
“Doctors at UC San Diego and 
UCLA now have a noninvasive 
imaging method to more accurately 
assess the local extent of the tumor 
and possibly predict the grade of the 
tumor, ” Karow said in a UCSD Health 
System News release. “Which can help 
them more precisely and effectively 
determine appropriate treatment. ”
More specifically, Rakow-Penner 
indicated that using RSI-MRI to 
accurately localize the tumor before 
SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
Undocumented Students with Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals status are now eligible to apply to UCSD’s School of Medicine. 
Photo taken by Siddharth Atre ucsdguardian.org. In an effort to reduce crime and 
sexual assault while also cutting 
power consumption at night at 
UCSD, several student and faculty 
groups are currently working to 
improve lighting on campus and 
are conducting annual walks around 
campus to find poorly lit spots. This 
goal is expected to be completed by 
the end of 2017. 
On Jan. 8, representatives 
from Campus Crime Prevention, 
the Sexual Assault & Violence 
Prevention Resource Center, 
Housing Dining and Hospitality 
and Transportation Services, among 
others, attended the latest in a series 
of evening walks to find areas on 
campus that are most in need of 
additional lighting.
They had met three times 
before to audit graduate housing, 
undergraduate housing areas 
and the Scripps Institution of 
Oceanography. Nancy Wahlig, 
director of SARC, helped organize 
the walks and explained that 
the lighting audit had been held 
annually for the past 20 years. It 
gradually expanded over time to 
include more cross-departmental 
cooperation and student input.
Some of the noted areas of 
concern on the audit and night walk 
last Thursday were in Earl Warren 
College Mall, the Geisel snake 
path, the bike racks in the School 
of Medicine and around the Rady 
School of Management. Although 
parts of these areas are lit, the 
current sodium lights do not provide 
adequate illumination. Their yellow 
color and low luminosity create dark 
shadows off the path and make it 
hard to distinguish colored features. 
The groups also noted areas where 
lights were burned out or blocked 
by foliage.
Warren College senior Shayla 
Wilson expressed her safety 
concerns about parts of campus and 
explained that women would feel 
safer if the campus provided better 
lighting.
“In Warren, a lot of the lights are 
out, and there’s a lot of overgrowth 
on the path, ” Wilson told the UCSD 
Guardian. “I can’t see who could 
potentially be in my surroundings. 
I could say the same thing about 
when I bike through the medical 
school or when I park out toward 
the [Torrey Pines] Gliderport. ”
UCSD Assistant Energy Manager 
Anna Levitt explained that in 
addition to violence prevention, 
the university will be reducing its 
energy costs by $45,000 per year. 
The university plans to accomplish Groups 
Survey Poorly
Lit Areas on  
CampusCAMPUS
UCSD officials hope to 
reduce violence while 
improving energy efficiency  
and lowering costs.
B Y kyle somers
Associate A&E Editor
See LIGHTING  page 3Imaging Technology Improves Cancer Detection
Non-invasive MRI diffusion technique pinpoints extent of prostate tumors more precisely. School of  Medicine Opens 
Doors to DACA Students 
  B y  Kriti  Sarin     Editorial Assistant EDUCATION
The UCSD School of Medicine was recently added to the 
Association of American Medical Colleges’ list of institu -
tions that accept applications from undocumented students 
with Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals status.
Implemented in June 2012, DACA was created by the 
Obama administration to allow children, who were under -
age when their families illegally immigrated to the United 
States, to live and study in the country without fear of 
deportation for up to two years — not taking into consid -
eration the possibility of status renewal. On Nov. 20, 2014, 
President Obama extended this period to three years. After 
this period, residents wishing to extend their term can apply 
to renew their DACA status. 
Institutions that are listed as willing to accept applica -
tions from students with DACA status include Harvard 
Medical School, Stanford University School of Medicine 
and Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine. The two 
other UC medical schools on the list are UC San Francisco 
and UC Davis. 
AAMC CEO and President Darrell G. Kirch said that 
the number of medical school applicants without valid documentation is rising. According to the AAMC website, 
over 640,000 immigrants have applied for DACA status so 
far, and the association witnessed an eightfold increase of 
DACA students in the 2014 applicant pool. 
“Students with DACA status represent a small but grow -
ing community of aspiring physicians, and the number of 
medical school applicants with this status has continued to 
increase, ” Kirch said in an AAMC press release on Sept. 25.
The DACA program also grants undocumented immi -
grants the opportunity to apply for employment authoriza -
tion documents, which are valid for up to three years and 
are subject to renewal. 
According to a fact sheet compiled by the Educators for 
Fair Consideration, the state of California has the highest 
number of undocumented immigrants in the nation. These 
immigrants comprise nearly 7 percent of California’s total 
population.
Undocumented Student Services Coordinator Jessica 
Munoz told the UCSD Guardian that she was enthusiastic 
that the UCSD School of Medicine is on the AAMC list 
and that giving students with DACA status the resources 
    SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
B Y   Jacky TO
Senior Staff writerSee DACA , page 3
See CANCER , page 2
2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | JANUARY 12, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG N EWS
AVERAGE CAT By Christina Carlson
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and 
Thursdays during the academic year by UCSD students 
and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this 
newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, 
without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2014, all 
rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible 
for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The 
views expressed herein do not necessarily represent 
the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of 
California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian 
is funded by advertising. Aleks is a gypsy.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035
Registration for WINTER Qtr is NOW open!
Register online at 
as.ucsd.edu/saferides
A.S. Safe Rides allows register ed un dergradua te 
studen ts to  get 3  FREE rides per quarter.
Studen ts must register  at lea st 24 hours
prio r to their first ride.  A.S. Safe Rides 
asucsd asucsd
#OMG 
#LIKE US
#FOLLOW US
@ucsdguar dianBusiness Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Audrey Sechrest
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Aleksandra Konstantinovic
Andrew E. Huang  
Taylor Sanderson
Tina Butoiu
Meryl Press
Charu Mehra
Brandon Yu
John Story
Teiko Yakobson
Jacqueline Kim
Kyle Somers
Nilu Karimi
Taylor Sanderson
Siddharth Atre
Joselynn Ordaz
Elyse Yang
Annie Liu
Rosina Garcia
Laura Chow
Vincent PhamEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editors
 
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Social Media Coordinator
Training & Development
Page Layout
Sherman Aline, Allison Kubo, Sidney Gao
Copy Readers
Andrew Chao, Caroline Lee, Micaela Stone
Editorial Assistants
Shelby Newallis, Jonah Yonker, Kriti Sarin, Jennifer Grundman,
Karly Nisson
surgery and better understand its 
extent allows surgeons to plan less 
aggressive procedures, which can 
affect a patient’s quality of life.
Rakow-Penner deemed it hard 
to predict whether or not the new 
technique would lead to increased 
mortality rates in prostate cancer patients.
She also indicated that they are 
performing further research on the 
technique to enhance its effectiveness 
and efficiency.
“We are developing the technique 
to be fused with ultrasound to better 
target biopsies, ” Karow said. “This 
will allow the surgeons to minimize 
samples — how many different regions where tissue is taken during the biopsy 
procedure — and have more assurance 
that the cancer was sampled during 
the biopsy. ”
Additionally, the researchers are 
exploring the prospect of applying this 
technique toward other body cancers, 
including breast cancer.
The National Institute of Biomedical 
Imaging and Bioengineering of the National Institutes of Health, the 
Department of Defense, Prostate 
Cancer Research Program, the 
American Cancer Society and the 
UCSD Extension Clinical Laboratory 
Scientist Training Program all partially 
funded this research.During California Gov. Jerry 
Brown’s inaugural address on Jan. 
5, Brown discussed the environ -
mental action policy and goals that 
he hopes to reach during his fourth 
term, as well as energy-efficient 
goals that will affect Californians 
for many years to come.
Brown stated that based on 
California’s current laws, he hopes 
to reach the goal of around one-
third of electricity use from renew -
able energy by 2020. However, with -
in the next 15 years, he hopes to increase the amount of renewable 
energy use from 33 percent to 50 
percent. Along with this, he wants 
to reduce petroleum use in trucks 
and cars by 50 percent, to double 
the efficiency in existing buildings 
and to create cleaner heating fuels, 
all by 2030. 
The governor continued to 
address other environmental goals 
that he hopes to reach, such as 
more widespread use of electric and 
low-carbon vehicles and initiatives 
involving electrical distribution, 
battery storage and expanded roof -
top solar. 
“How we achieve these goals and at what pace will take great 
thought and imagination mixed 
with pragmatic caution, ” Brown 
said in his speech. “It will require 
enormous innovation, research and 
investment. We will need active col -
laboration at every stage with our 
scientists, engineers, entrepreneurs, 
businesses and officials at all levels. ”
Brown also stated that he wishes 
to reduce methane use, black carbon 
and other pollutants, while manag -
ing farms and wetlands so they can 
store carbon.
An academic Center for 
Hellenic Studies has been estab -
lished by UCSD’s Division of Arts 
and Humanities. The center has 
received $25,000 in contributions from the Hellenic Cultural Society 
in addition to $1 million in anony -
mous donations. 
The center will contribute to 
UCSD’s Greek history graduate pro -
gram, which is the largest of its kind 
in North America and will enable 
undergraduates to work with schol -ars and researchers of Greek his -
tory. Furthermore, the center will 
feature a digital archive of Hellenic 
history and artifacts which will be 
accessible to the public. Brown Aims to Increase Renewable Energy Use 
Hellenic Studies Center Receives $1.25 MillionBRI EFS
Mer yl Press    Mpress@ucsd.edu readers can contact
TINA BUTOIU  CBUTOIU@ucsd.edu readers can contactB Y  Mer yl Press
News Editor
B Y  TINA BUTOIU
NEWS EDITOR
  jacky to j6to@ucsd.edu readers can contactTechnique to be Combined With Ultrasound, May Help Treat Other Cancers
CANCER ▶ , from page 1
@UCSDGUARDIANFOLLOW US ON TWITTER
this by replacing the yellow sodium 
streetlights around campus with 
LED lights, which will require 
maintenance every 12 years instead 
of every three.
“We’re in the process of 
transitioning to the most efficient 
lights possible, ” Levitt told the 
Guardian. “LED’s are probably 30 
percent more efficient than the low-pressure sodium lights and last at 
least three times longer. From a 
sustainability and maintenance 
cost perspective, that’s great, since 
Facilities Management is constantly 
replacing the orange lights. ”
The cost associated with replacing 
old lamp poles and installing new 
ones will be $650,000. However, 
UCSD will be eligible for a $120,000 
reimbursement from San Diego Gas 
and Electric as an incentive to cut emissions. The project is projected 
to pay for itself in 10 years. Similar 
work has been done in the past, 
and light retrofits in 2011 and 2012 
saved the university $210,000 and 
$90,000 per year, respectively. Their 
efficiency will also contribute to 
UCSD’s goal of reducing its net 
carbon footprint to zero by 2025.to obtain medical licenses is essential.
“I was pleased to learn the UC San 
Diego School of Medicine joined other 
prestigious medical schools to state 
clearly the school’s willingness to con -
sider applicants with work authoriza -
tion based on the Deferred Action for 
Childhood Arrivals program, ” Munoz 
said. “Given that DACA provides a 
mechanism for medical school gradu -
ates to participate in medical residency 
programs and California law will soon 
permit individuals who are undocu -
mented to become licensed physicians, 
it is important that the UCSD School 
of Medicine is committed to educat -
ing all qualified applicants who have a 
pathway to become a physician. ”In 2001, former Gov. Gray Davis 
implemented Assembly Bill 540 to 
the California Education Code. AB 
540 waives out-of-state tuition fees for 
nonresident students who have ful -
filled certain requirements. 
These requirements include attend -
ing a California high school for three 
or more years or registering at an 
accredited institution of higher educa -
tion within the state. Students who 
have DACA status but do not qualify 
for the AB 540 nonresident tuition 
exemption are not considered eligible 
applicants. 
Medical students who are eligible 
for the AB 540 tuition exemption 
also have the financial support of the 
AAMC. As of this January, students 
who are applying to or have been admitted to medical schools and have 
DACA status can receive aid from 
the association through its new Fee 
Assistance Program.
 “The AAMC is pleased to offer 
financial assistance for all eligible 
students in order to ensure greater 
access to medical school programs, ” 
Kirch said in the press release. “The 
cost of applying to medical school 
should not be a barrier to individu -
als who want to pursue a career in 
medicine. ”
Students can apply for or renew 
DACA status by completing an appli -
cation online on the U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration Services website. N EWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | JANUARY 12, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
LIGHTS & SIRENSLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edu.
Friday, Jan. 2
2:43 p.m.: Medical Aid
An ill adult female in Miramar 
Building 4 suffered a bloody 
nose and was coughing up blood. 
Transported to hospital.
Saturday, Jan. 3
12:06 a.m.: Vandalism
Paint was used to draw on a large 
window at the Che Cafe, resulting 
in $400 worth of damage. Report 
taken.
Sunday, Jan. 4
3:50 a.m.: Welfare Check
Secondhand information was 
provided of a female at Galathea 
Hall who accepted a ride from an 
unknown male over Facebook. The 
female stated that he was unwilling 
to leave her dorm room. Closed by 
adult citation.
Monday, Jan. 5
9:20 a.m.: Disturbance
A student reportedly suffered a ner -
vous breakdown and was causing a 
disturbance in Warren Lecture Hall. 
Transported to hospital.Tuesday, Jan. 6
1:51 a.m.: Vandalism
Damaged camera cables were found 
at the Chancellor’s Complex, cost -
ing an estimated $600. Report taken.
9:18 p.m.: Medical Aid
A young adult female at the Warren 
shuttle stop had difficulty breathing 
and felt numb in her arm. Medical 
transportation refused. 
Wednesday, Jan. 7
9:53 a.m.: Shoplifting
A young adult male was caught 
shoplifting from the Bookstore. 
Closed by adult citation.
10 p.m.: Marijuana Contact
An residential security offi -
cer requested other officers for 
seized marijuana at Harlan Hall. 
Marijuana impounded. 
Thursday, Jan. 8
9:15 p.m.: Voigt Dip
A female subject fell off her skate -
board and suffered head and face 
injuries. Transported to hospital.
— ANDREW E. HUANG
Managing Editor  AAMC Will Offer Financial Assistance to Prospective Students 
▶ DACA,  from page 1
kriti  sarin    ksarin@ucsd.edu readers can contact
kyle somers KSOMERS@ucsd.edu readers can contactUCSD May Get Reimbursement Incentive to Decrease Emissions
▶ LIGHTING,  from page 14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | JANUARY 12, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CHARU MEHRA
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Going home over the winter break, many people might have noticed 
that their wallet was fuller than usual. It was unlikely that less holi -
day spending caused this phenomenon but rather low gas prices. 
Starting in Sept. 2014, gas prices in the U.S. have been falling at a steady 
rate to reach prices as low as $2.20 in California, according to the AAA Fuel 
Gauge Report. California gas prices have not been this low since 2009.  On 
the surface, low gas prices might seem like a plus, but in reality the U.S. paid 
a greater cost. To get such low prices, President Obama sold out his goals 
and promises for a greener future for America to instead invest in the U.S. ’s 
Achilles’ heel: oil. 
To begin, let us discuss why gas prices are so low right now. Before 
2008, the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, which controls 
approximately 40 percent of the global petroleum supply, used the high de -
mand caused by a developing China and low supply of oil to their advantage 
to drive global oil and gas prices up. While Europe used the opportunity 
to further wean itself off oil and onto renewable energy, Obama chose to 
invest in the risky method of oil mining. In 2008, the Obama administration 
decided to seriously pursue access to crude oil, located in shale forma -
tions in tar sands across the country.  Six years later, it “paid off ” as U.S. oil 
production increased (and continues to increase). The new supply of oil from the U.S. is now competing with OPEC’s supply, thus creating a price 
war.  Starting last September, OPEC, led by Saudi Arabia, has been allowing 
global oil prices to drop and will likely continue to do so until oil no longer 
becomes profitable to the U.S. 
This is why there’s been such a decline in gas prices recently, and it is a 
supposed win for Americans. The money Americans are saving is seen as a 
small economic boost. The problem is that low gas prices won’t last. While 
Saudi Arabia can take the decrease in profits, the other petroleum produc -
ing countries such as Russia, Iran and Venezuela cannot, as their govern -
ments rely heavily on oil sales profits to balance their budgets. Saudi Arabia 
and the U.S. are really the only oil producing countries that can seriously 
survive extremely low profits from oil sales. How long it will take until the 
other countries intervene to end this war is a question up for grabs, but it is 
clear that for the majority of these countries, sustaining low oil prices is not 
a possibility. 
The real problem for America is that Obama made a deal with the devil 
for those low prices and sabotaged his goals for a greener future in the 
process. Investing in new oil production is creating jobs that will last for 
years in a sector that America cannot depend on for its future. Todd Stern, 
Climate Change Envoy for the U.S. Department of State, was even quoted 
Although the Republican-dominated Congress 
usually frowns upon spending funds, President 
Obama’s proposal to make two years of commu -
nity college free is something that is worth the 
money. While the stipulations of this program 
have not been made entirely clear, the president 
has made it clear that students must maintain a 
2.5 GPA and make progress toward completion 
of a degree or program. This will not be another 
wasteful form of spending by the government but, 
rather, a wise investment in America’s future. 
This new proposal will prove to be a good step 
toward minimizing the social disparity that exists 
in education. The New Y ork Times reports that 
in Tennessee — where Obama adopted this idea 
from — there is a greater number of African-
American and Latino applicants that are attend -
ing college. This proposal would allow these 
underrepresented students elsewhere to work 
toward a degree and offer much-needed diversity 
in higher education. And there is nothing wrong 
with giving all students a chance at that. 
Additionally, many students who attend 
college also work part or full-time to cover the 
exorbitant price of tuition, books, transportation 
— the list goes on and on. This proposition would 
reduce the stress of burnt-out college students 
who have a million other things on their plate. 
Besides, it’s not as if Obama is saying, “Here, let 
me pay for all your other bills too. ” Education is a 
right, and this idea emphasizes that ideal and puts 
it into practice. Perhaps the UC Board of Regents 
could take a hint. 
 
—  ROSINA  GARCIA
Copy EditorProgram Will Adversely Affect Job 
Market and American Spending PowerOversight of  Community Colleges 
Should Be Left to Individual StatesInvesting in Community Colleges is 
Investing in America’s Future 
President Obama’s plan to make the first two years 
of community college free is a good idea, but there’s 
no need for this to be done at the federal level. Instead, 
it should be up to the individual states to decide if 
their budgets will allow this, as seen in Tennessee’s 
case last year.
The biggest problem with the president’s plan is 
the budget. Federal funding would have to pick up 
three-quarters of the tab, and with the Congressional 
Budget Office’s estimate that the 2014 deficit is $483 
billion, there’s no room for more spending.
Furthermore, the remainder of the tab will go to 
the states. California cannot afford this, and in fact, 
many states would feel miffed over federal intru -
sion into their already stressed budgets. The Center 
for American Progress reported that public college 
funding fell by 5 percent in 26 states from 2008 to 
2012, an obvious response to the Great Recession. 
All states, excluding oil-booming North Dakota, 
have spent less per student on higher education 
than before the financial crisis, according to Illinois 
State University’s “Grapevine” project. California, 
despite raising taxes and making post-recession cuts 
in higher education, still experienced the second 
highest deficits in 2010, as studied by the Center on 
Budget and Policy Priorities.             
While a recovery is underway, the economic 
fundamentals are too fragile for the federal gov -
ernment to be blowing deficits on guns and but -
ter like the previous decade. On the state level, 
the scars of the recession haven’t healed yet, but 
when they do, that will be the logical time for 
each state to fund education at its discretion.
— JORDAN UTLEY-THOMSON
Staff Writer   With his new measure to make two years of 
community college free for everyone, President 
Obama is taking a step in the wrong direction. 
The unemployment rate of people with only a high 
school degree is close to the national average: 7.5 
versus 6.1 percent, according to data from the U.S. 
Department of Labor. Closing this small gap will 
not inherently change the face of the American 
economy and will harm students more than it will 
help. 
On Friday, Deputy Press Secretary Eric 
Schultz announced the plan would cost an already 
indebted federal government roughly $60 billion 
over 10 years. But that money would come at least 
partly from taxes. Even though students will not 
have to pay for community college while they 
attend, they will still have effectively paid for it 
with taxes.
The program will also likely deplete the market 
for jobs that do not require higher education, such 
as the service industry. With everyone getting 
the same education, access to “regular jobs” will 
have even more competition, and with the current 
trajectory, soon master’s degrees or higher will be 
regarded as the only acceptable level of collegiate 
education. Many students need to make money 
straight out of high school, and even though 
Obama’s plan offers a supposedly brighter future, 
it hinders these peoples’ earning power in the 
meantime to provide for things like food and 
housing. In time, Obama’s good intentions will 
backfire on the American economy, with his plan 
hurting the very people it was meant to help. 
— MARCUS THUILLIER
Staff Writer
QUICK TAKESPRESIDENT OBAMA RECENTLY ANNOUNCED HIS INTENTIONS TO IMPLEMENT A PROGRAM THAT WOULD MAKE 
COMMUNITY COLLEGE FREE FOR TWO YEARS FOR QUALIFIED AMERICAN STUDENTS. See OIL, page 5Oil: Obama’s Slippery Slope
The Obama administration’s failure to reach the goal of  1 million electric cars on 
the road by 2015 is a direct result of  its prioritization of  cheap oil. 
B Y A y a t amin    staff writer // Illustra tion  b Y   Elyse yang 
How-To: 
Completely 
Mismanage
Your 21st
It’s the biggest day of your 
young life, and it only happens 
once — your 21st birthday. Y ou 
may be intimidated by all the 
options you have to celebrate, but 
luckily for you, we’ve created this 
handy guide to help you maximize 
your potential for legal intoxication 
and completely mismanage your 
birthday celebrations. 
First of all, you’ll want to plan 
your day to include absolutely 
every kind of outing and every kind 
of drink you’ve missed out on dur -
ing your years of being underage. 
Craft beer tasting? Drinking on the 
beach? That trendy bar downtown 
that serves drinks out of test tubes? 
Y ou betcha. Y ou’ll want to do all of 
it because you’ll never have a week -
end opportunity like this again. 
Begin your day drinking at 11 
a.m. at an overpriced “drunch” fea -
turing bottomless mimosas. There’s 
no better start to this special day 
than sugary, carbonated beverages 
that will leave you hungover by 4 
p.m. To really step up your game, 
start drinking before your food 
arrives so that you’ve consumed 
at least two drinks on an empty 
stomach. By that point, you’ll be 
too drunk to eat enough of that $20 
plate of chilaquiles to help keep you 
somewhat sober. 
Now that you’re sufficiently 
plastered, you’ll be delighted to 
know that you still have a whole 
day of drinking to look forward 
to. Take this opportunity to break 
in the drinking paraphernalia and 
expensive alcohol that’s been gifted 
to you by well-meaning friends. 
Don’t bother saving that bottle of 
whiskey for another occasion — 
pour it right into your brand new 
hipster-themed shot glasses and 
keep the party going. 
If this is the first time you’re 
consuming an excessive quantity of 
alcohol, make sure that you abso -
lutely do not have a friend on hand 
to feed you bread and listen to you 
cry. 
Finally, go classic and throw an 
enormous party in the evening. It’ll 
be just like the parties you’ve been 
to in college. Only this time, it’s 
your responsibility to provide the 
alcohol and clean up the place all 
while dealing with the nasty head -
ache you’ve accumulated by this 
point from the day of continuous 
drinking. Can you be drunk and 
hungover at the same time? Y ou’ll 
find out for sure somewhere in the 
process of trying to wake up the 
friends that came to help you cel -
ebrate and ended up passed out on 
your couch. 
The next morning, when you 
inevitably wake up feeling like 
you’ve been punched in the face 
and everywhere else, really, don’t 
bother taking the morning to rest 
and drink lots of water. Y ou go to 
UCSD: Y ou’re a busy person, and 
you need to go to class or work or, 
hey, just drink some more. Y ou’re 
legal now, and there’s nothing like 
staying drunk to avoid a hangover. 
If you follow our guide, you’re 
guaranteed to have the worst birthday 
celebration of your life while ending 
up more drunk and hungover than 
you’ve ever been.How-toGuru
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | JANUARY 12, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
by the U.K. Guardian as saying that 
the Obama administration sees no 
long-range future for fossil fuels. Y et, 
America will have invested more than 
$31 billion dollars by 2015 in refining 
tar sands. This is more money than 
Obama’s stimulus bill for investing in 
energy and the environment provided, 
with only $30.2 billion allocated over 
15 years. If the administration had 
been smart, they could have divested 
from oil like Europe and allocated 
those funds toward green energy, ef -
fectively doubling the funding that the 
stimulus provided. 
In addition, while Obama was 
investing in tar sand refineries in 2008, he was also promising to put 1 
million electric vehicles on the road by 
2015. It is now 2015, and the Obama 
administration did not reach its goal. 
In 2014, when the U.S. had record 
high gas prices, only about 500,000 
electric vehicles were on the road. In 
total, electric vehicles sales made up 
less than 4 percent of auto sales in the 
U.S. Electric auto sales don’t look great 
for 2015 either. Historically speaking, 
low gas prices have led to higher sales 
of gas-dependent cars. And while it’s 
too early to determine what the effects 
of the recent low gas prices are doing 
for electric car sales, the predictions 
don’t look too bright. 
The list of all the green energy 
promises Obama made and some -times invested in could go on and 
on, and most of them were largely 
undermined by America’s oil depen -
dence. It might seem like Obama 
compromised by investing in both oil 
and renewable energy, but in 20 or 
30 years down the line, the negative 
effects of his decision making will 
be more apparent. Investing in shale 
was investing in a future that cannot 
be depended on. Short term, this 
decision made sense, but in the long 
term, it was an egregious mistake. 
In the end, Obama was just like any 
other American: When it came to oil, 
he sold out.WORLDFRONT WINDOW By David Juarez 
Money Spent on Oil Production Should Have Gone to Green Energy
▶ OIL, from page 4
GOT ISSUES?
BE HEARD
BY YOUR PEERS!SEND YOUR 
LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
readers can contact
A Y A T Amin  a6amin@ucsd.edu 6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | JANUARY 12, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
TEIKO Y AKOBSON
features@ucsdguardian.org
GAre there any firm plans in place for the 2015 Sun God Festival?
SRSun God Festival will be 
held on May 3, 2015, two 
weeks earlier in the quarter 
than in years previous, on a 
Sunday rather than a Friday 
and the hours of the event will be reduced to 
shift the majority of the activities toward the 
day time. The exact length of the event and 
finalized times have not been yet set; some -
time soon, I hope. Event staffing policies and 
protocols are currently being re-evaluated to 
ensure that we have the best practice in place when it comes to health and safety for our 
students, including looking at the Village 
and the I-House policies. We’re working on 
addressing concerns that students have had 
in the past about these policies, so we’re ad -
dressing those and making sure that all the 
little kinks that we had for this first past year 
are better implemented. There will also be 
a focus on the venue entrance and exits to 
mitigate any kind of potential challenges to 
the event and reduce the impact that it has 
on the community and campus. 
Is there any chance of the Festival continuing on as it has in the past, which is some -
thing that a lot of students want?G
Sun God Festival has been 
going on for 34 years, and it 
depends on when in the past 
you’re talking about. When it 
initially began, when it was 
just in Main Gym with kind of like a ven -
dor fair/org[anization] fair in the Old Stu -
dent Services Center. It could also be when it 
was in Price Center Plaza before the concert 
in RIMAC Field. Back in 2006 is when we 
shifted to do what we call the “current mod -el” of the Sun God Festival that we know of 
today, and that was there in place for about 
four years until now when we’re deciding on 
looking at things we can change. I think that 
if the student body reacts well to this festival 
and if the concerns that have been brought 
up are mitigated to some extent, I think 
there’s definitely potential for the students to 
have more of what they want to see at the 
Festival.
GSo, what you’re saying is that the festival has been evolving for as long as it’s been 
around.
Exactly. So as long as our 
student body is changing, 
the festival will continue to evolve; it’s one of the beautiful things about 
the Sun God Festival. I’m excited to see what 
it looks like 10 years from now.GWhat are some of the problem areas with the past festivals? What are you guys doing 
to address those and what would you want students to know about those problem 
areas?
When I ask students, “What 
do you love about the Sun God 
Festival?” the most common re -
sponse that I receive is, “It unifies 
the campus. ” For this one day it doesn’t matter 
what college you’re from or what [y]our major 
is; the only thing that matters is that we’re all 
UCSD students and that we’re having a great 
time on the field. ” The problem arises when we 
create a campus climate around the event that 
pushes people to drink past their limits or take 
a drug that unknowingly contains some kind of harmful substance. Some of the ways that we’re 
addressing it is by the changes that we’re placing 
— creating environmental changes like shifting 
it more toward the day or taking a look at a Sun -
day rather than a Friday so we’re not conflicting 
with classes, so we don’t have such an impact 
on the school. I think at the end of the day be -
ing conscious of ourselves and the people we’re 
around and remembering that everyone has 
their limits. There’s no need to go over the edge, 
per se, and it’s important to recognize where we 
should draw the line. 
GSeveral different students have said they’re going to “go even harder” now because 
of the restrictions. Can you address that? 
I think if students want to guar -
antee the end of the Sun God 
Festival, that’s the one way to 
guarantee that. And I definitely 
see that students feel suppressed and don’t want 
to feel all of these new regulations on them, 
which is why my team is working and looking at 
what can we add to the Festival that brings value 
to it, what can we add that will get students ex -cited. So we’re looking at those possibilities. This 
year we’ve put more money into our headliner 
than in past years. So we decided on our first of -
fer, and it was bigger than what we spent for our 
headliner last year so it’s really exciting. We’re 
hoping that by generating excitement, people 
are kind of not thinking about all these new 
regulations that are put in place.
GCan you give us a hint about what genre that headliner might be?
Nice try, you’re not going to get it 
out of me that easily. As always, 
it’s top secret until the big release 
we have. Last quarter, our ASCE 
entertainment survey collected data on what 
the student population likes, and according to the surveys — just to give you a little insight of 
what the surveys said — apparently the dubstep 
craze is fizzled out, so students aren’t as interest -
ed in hard electronic music as they were in the 
past. That was interesting to hear, and students 
are also not as interested in country music. 
Q&A  continued on page 7Associated Students Concerts and Events Associate Vice President Seraphin Raya sat 
down with the UCSD Guardian to grant some insight into what the 2015 Sun God Fes -
tival will look like, in terms of both regulations and new activities.
SR
SRSR
SR
SRInterviewed by  Aleksandra Konstantinovic  Editor-in-Chief  // Photo by Alwin SzetoSun God Festival  
2015 Q&A with ASCEFEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | JANUARY 12, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
wpcarey.asu.edu/graduate
         8 master’s degrees
          1 top-ranked 
         business schoolreally!
Almost 80% of employers plan to hire graduates with business degrees this year.
National Association of Colleges and Employers (NACE) Job Outlook 2015 SurveyGive your job search a boost with a master’s degree from ASU’s top-ranked W. P. Carey School 
of Business, and gain the skills you need to succeed — in as little as nine months.
• Accountancy
• Business Analytics
• Finance
• Global Logistics• Information Management
• Management
• Real Estate Development
• TaxationGHave safety concerns like that grown over the past few years? Is that why we’re 
placing more of an emphasis on safety?
SRY eah, at the end of the day 
we don’t want to be curating 
something that puts our stu -
dents in danger. Every year, we 
talk to students dealing with 
conduct cases after the Festival; 
they end up having to go to conduct review 
boards. We deal with people who end up hav -ing to go to detox and have these huge detox 
fines on top of them. We have people that have 
to go to court cases because of DUIs, and these 
are real situations that are occurring and we 
don’t want students to be facing these after the 
Festival. We want there to be an event where 
students are having fun, and there’s [sic] no 
repercussions of things that occur. 
GWhat kind of additional benefits are we looking at and are those the cool-down 
activities that have been mentioned? 
We are working to create 
more experiences on the field 
for students. Students have told 
us in the past that, besides the 
music and the dancing, there’s not much to do 
at [the Festival], and we’re working on changing 
that. We want to keep students on the field, so 
what we’re really excited to do is changing the 
midway tent area into an actual midway area — 
so getting games and rides for students to actu -
ally enjoy and having a more interactive piece to the festival. We’re looking at ways to add attrac -
tions to the festival: adding an emphasis on art 
and decor, bringing in student artist pieces onto 
the festival, potentially bringing more perform -
ers. We’re looking at getting different kinds of 
entertainers throughout the entire festival, look -
ing at attractions that would make students stay 
on the field. Not so much as a cool-down event 
but a part of the festival that students are enjoy -
ing while they’re enjoying the music.GCan you give us an example of something that’s been thrown around?
An example is having silk per -
formers throughout the venue. 
We’re still looking at pricing and stuff like that, but that’s one of the ex -
amples that’s been thrown out.
GHow much weight can you give to student input? And what’s the best way for 
students to put themselves through to ASCE?
We take student input ex -
tremely seriously. At first we 
started a list of over 500 musi -
cal acts; we take note of musi -
cal talent people are suggesting. 
People send us things through Facebook, 
through email, through our ASCE enter -
tainment survey. Decisions are also based on 
who’s available that day, so it’s not just what 
students want; it’s also are the artists avail -
able, can we get them within our budget, all 
of that. So once we negotiate that, we spend 
a lot of time analyzing, debating, discussing 
[and] fortunetelling in order to decide who 
to send those offers to. Our staff — we are a group of music lovers, concertgoers, and 
we want to plan a festival that we ourselves 
would want to go to. Volunteer applica -
tions come out once the website is released, 
so there’s a possibility to get involved that 
way for those that want to get more hands-
on and want to have ownership over some 
part of the festival. We also have our Sun 
God [Festival] committees. We meet on the 
fourth floor of Price Center every Monday at 
4 p.m., so if anyone wants to become a part 
of the Sun God committee, they’re welcome 
to join any time. SR
SR
SRQ&A  continued from page 6
PHOTO BY ERIC NYE/ GUARDIAN FILE PHOTO BY MEGAN LAO/ GUARDIAN FILE8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | JANUARY 12, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEA TURES
To start your transformation, get in touch today. 310.568.2366 or 866.503.5467
gsep-recruitment@pepperdine.edu • gsep.pepperdine.edu
sara’s 
future.impact
Transform the lives of children 
with a Master of Arts in Education from Pepperdine.
Graduate Campuses: West Los Angeles 
Encino • Irvine • Westlake VillageSEE US AT OUR
GRADUATE AND
PROFESSIONAL FAIR OCTOBER 15, 2014SEE US AT OUR
GRADUATE AND
PROFESSIONAL FAIR OCTOBER 15, 2014
Beyond the Interview
Written b y Aleksandra Konstantinovic Editor-in-Chief  and Teiko Y akobson Features Editor // Illustrations by Elyse Y ang  Resume done. Interview done. Let’s say you chatted with the recruiters and scored your first job. Now what? With the 
2015 Winter Job and Internship Fair right around the corner, Michelle Tillman of the UCSD Career Services Center 
gives some tips on how to make your first job or internship a successful experience.
First  da y  of  work :
“I would recommend still thinking of your first day as an interview, ” Tillman says. 
“Depending on the organization, there may be a trial period. ” She goes on to explain 
that the rules of the job interview still apply during this time — dressing professionally 
and arriving punctually, if not 10 minutes early. 
Review  your  job  description:
Before you begin, you’ll want to make sure you know exactly what you’ll be responsible for 
and that you have a good handle on it. If you feel like you may not know how to do some -
thing, make sure you ask. But Tillman recommends going in with an open mind and being 
willing to take on projects and tasks that may not be what you were initially expecting from 
the job. Showing you’re a team player makes a great first impression.
Research  the  comp any:
In addition to knowing what your job is, you’ll want to know who your supervisor 
and coworkers are and what they’re responsible for so you can offer to help if you 
can. Even more importantly, learn about the company’s mission statement and its 
short-term and long-term goals. Y ou’ll be an even better employee when your work is 
directly moving the business forward.
be  cordial:  
On your first day, learn names and greet your new co -
workers as you begin working. A new environment may 
be stressful or even uncomfortable, but meeting them now 
will help establish a good base for the relationships you’re 
building moving forward.Tips for  dealing  with  conflict:
Conflict inevitably arises in any work environment, and bosses appreciate an 
employee who can proactively and maturely handle a problem.
tips  for  feedback:
In the course of your career, your supervisor will likely offer feedback about your job 
performance. Many students feel intimidated if the feedback isn’t all sparkling, but 
Tillman says there is a way to turn even negative feedback into a positive experience.Be  clear  and  ask  questionS:  
If a conflict does happen despite your best efforts, Tillman recommends sitting 
down with the person individually and talking it through. Being clear about what went wrong or 
asking questions about the situation create a calm atmosphere that’s important to resolution. Y our 
supervisor or a human resources representative can help mediate the conversation if you need it. 
Grow  and  change:
Growing and changing is essential to any job, and some of the best lessons you’ll receive come from 
feedback from supervisors. Internalize the lessons and try to incorporate them in your job perfor -
mance moving forward. 
Check  in:
After you’ve received the feedback and you’ve tried to incorporate it, Tillman says you can even initiate 
a conversation later to see if your boss has noticed an improvement. Not only will you look like a pro -
active employee, you’ll likely have another honest discussion about what you can work on to improve 
in the future.
build  your  rela tionships:
Get to know your boss and your direct supervisors before a possible conflict takes 
place. One of the best ways to do that, according to Tillman, is to organize a chat 
over coffee or lunch to get to know them. Approaching a boss may be intimidat -
ing, so make sure they know it’s just a casual chat and keep the time to about half 
an hour or less.
keep  track  of  personal  det ails:
As you get to know your coworkers, you’ll find out more about who they are in their spare time, and 
keeping track of these details creates stronger working relationships. “I go so far as to write down 
milestones and even significant details like their partners’ names, ” Tillman said. “It really helps to build 
a connection with your coworkers when you get to know them outside of the workplace. ”
SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 12, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
On Saturday, the Tritons traveled 
to Grand Canyon University where 
they came back from a two-set deficit 
to beat their hosts 3–2 at Antelope 
Gymnasium. The match finished 
with scores of 18–25, 20–25, 25–23, 
25–22 and 15–10.
The Antelopes came out strong 
in the early portions of the match, 
taking the first set and outblocking 
UCSD 6–0. Grand Canyon University 
continued its dominance by taking 
the second set with relative ease.
In the third set, the Tritons began 
their comeback with huge help from 
sophomore middle blocker Shayne 
Beamer and freshman opposite hitter 
and setter Tanner Syftestad, who both 
made several kills in the third set and 
finished the game with career highs 
of 14 apiece. Both teams remained 
neck-and-neck late into the set, with 
the scores tied at 22–22. However, 
a kill and an assist from Syftestad 
brought UCSD to set point, and a kill 
from Schnitzer claimed the set 25–23.
The momentum was clearly 
in favor of UCSD for the rest of 
the game as it began the fourth set 
with its first triple block of 2015 
from sophomore outside hitter Ian 
Colbert, Schnitzer and redshirt freshman setter Jose Carlos Martinez. 
Although the Antelopes battled to get 
within touching distance at set point, 
freshman outside hitter Luke Lamont 
served an ace to take the set 25–22 
for UCSD and bring the match to a 
deciding fifth set.
UCSD sealed the comeback 
victory in the final set off of several 
Grand Canyon errors. The Tritons 
started to pull away when they went 
up 5–2 thanks to successive kills from 
Syftestad and eventually built up a 
12–7 advantage. Two more kills at the 
end of the set from Syftestad secured 
the impressive win for the Tritons.
“It shows a great deal of maturity 
with a very young team to be able 
to come back and win in five after 
losing the first two sets, ” Ring said. 
“It’s always nice to [win number] 
one. Now we’ve got to go and [win 
number] two. ” 
The Tritons will be looking for 
that next win on Wednesday, Jan. 14, 
as they travel on the road again to 
face Cal State Long Beach. With first 
serve set up for 7 p.m. UCSD will 
remain on the road again to take on 
Cal State Northridge on Friday, Jan. 
16, also at 7 p.m. The Tritons supported their coach’s 
vote of confidence the following night 
as UCSD earned a strong victory 
against San Francisco State, who 
entered the game with an identical 
conference and overall record. 
Overall, the Tritons put up an 
amazing season-high 54-percent field 
goal percentage as they made 22 of 
their 41 field goals. Of their 22 made 
shots, nine were three-pointers. All 12 
of sophomore guard Jeff Van Dyke’s 
points came from beyond the arc, who 
went four of eight from downtown. 
“If our whole team plays freely, 
openly and just has fun, we can all 
shoot well any given night, ” Van 
Dyke said. “We have so many good 
shooters. It just happened to be me 
tonight. ”
Though the San Francisco State Gators led 7–5 early in the first half, 
the Tritons surged for a 13–0 run to 
jump ahead. 
San Francisco State chipped away 
at their deficit toward the end of the 
first half, but the Tritons managed to 
rally and stay ahead at 30–28 entering 
the half. 
In the second frame, the Gators 
failed to close the gap again, as the 
Tritons’ impeccable shooting night 
held a lead for the remainder of the 
game. 
Klie maintained the team’s 
offensive rhythm with his team-
high 20 points on a near-perfect 
6–7 shooting from the field, while 
adding a game-best eight rebounds. 
Junior forward Drew Dyer finished 
the game closely behind Klie, scor -
ing 18 points also on 6–7 shooting, 
while Van Dyke followed with his 12 points. 
“The best teams are the ones that 
are most consistent, and this was a 
good weekend for us to show that 
we are one of them, ” Olen said. “It 
was a chance for us to protect our 
home court. ”
After a successful weekend, the 
Tritons appear to be slowly finding 
their rhythm as they move into a 
three-way tie for third in league 
standings. 
With their last five games played 
at home, the UCSD men’s basketball 
team returns to the road next week 
as they face off against Cal State Los 
Angeles on Jan. 16 and Cal State 
Dominguez Hills on Jan. 17. 
@UCSD_SportsFollow us on Twitter
Shokoor finished with yet 
another double-double (10 points, 
12 rebounds), and MacLeod had 
12 points of her own to cap off a 
complete team performance.
Next, UCSD put on a clinic 
on Saturday and pummeled San 
Francisco State 94–61. The Tritons 
made 66.7 percent of their shots 
and outrebounded San Francisco 
State 47–17.
UCSD went up quickly 14–9 and 
built on that lead for the rest of the 
game. With a stunning display on 
offense, the Tritons shot 21 of 32 in 
the first half and, led by Shokoor 
and MacLeod, went into halftime 
with a 50–33 lead. 
The Tritons never looked back in 
the second half as the lead contin -ued to increase, even going as high 
as 37. VanDerveer emptied her 
bench in the final minutes as UCSD 
controlled the last 10 minutes of 
play.
Shokoor had a game-high 20 
points and 15 rebounds, add -
ing another double-double to her 
outstanding season. Mounier (16 
points), MacLeod (17 points) and 
senior forward McKennan Bertsch 
(10 points) all hit double figures.
“We definitely had a tough pre -
season, and we had a shaky start, ” 
senior guard Stephanie Y ano said. 
“People from the bench are really 
stepping up. But we are not peaking 
right now, and we have a lot more 
potential to fulfill. ”
UCSD’s well-rounded squad ap -
pears to truly be hitting their stride, as the dominance of this weekend 
appears only more promising con -
sidering the absence of starters Seto 
and Anderson. 
With the pair of wins, the Tri -
tons take sole possession of fourth 
place in league standings but can 
easily move up in the CCAA rank -
ings with next weekend’s slate of 
games.
UCSD will now return to the 
road in hopes of extending the win -
ning streak as it takes on Cal State 
Los Angeles on Friday, Jan. 16, at 
5:30 p.m. and Cal State Dominguez 
Hills the following day at 5:30 p.m., 
as well. Tritons to Return to the Road to Face CSULA and CSUDH Comeback Victory Shows Promise for UCSD
UCSD Jumps into Three-Way Tie for Third in Standings▶ W. BASKETBALL,  from page 12
▶ M. BASKETBALL,  from page 12readers can contact
  marcus  thuillier     mthuilli@ucsd.edu 
readers can contact
  LIAM  leahy     lleahy@ucsd.edu 
readers can contact
  gurkira t  singh     gsingh@ucsd.edu ▶ M. VOLLEYBALL,  from page 1210 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 12, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
CLASSIFIEDS$
Guar dian Classi/f_ieds ar e FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifieds
crossword
ACROSS
1 Muscleman’s quality6 Prefix with sphere10 Taj Mahal site14 High nest15 Smooth out16 Rugged outcropping17 *Nitpick19 Have no use for, so to speak20 Raise the hackles of21 Neil Simon’s “The Goodbye __”22 Did some pressing work?24 Must-miss movie rating, probably26 Well-behaved27 *Take no action30 Slim __: snack sausage33 Scottish singing sensation Boyle36 Boozer37 “You bet!”38 Galileo’s sci.39 Boston team, briefly41 Quickie haircut42 Professional charges43 Classic TV brand44 Final authority45 Eerie ability, briefly46 *Gold rush phenomenon49 Places for facials51 Train track foundation55 Puffs up57 German industrial area58 Parisian pal59 Bee, to Opie60 *B.B. King’s genre63 Londoner, e.g.64 Assents at sea65 Use TurboTax, say66 Furry Himalayan legend67 Take a breather68 Parceled (out)DOWN
1 Washroom tub
2 Copy, for short
3 Where Van Gogh painted “Sunflowers”4 Nintendo system involving physical 
exertion
5 Bottom line
6 Publisher with a castle
7 Wicked8 La Méditerranée, e.g.9 Moments of clarity
10 Cold outburst?
11 *Group that might indict
12 Lender’s charge13 Like fine wine18 Trumpeter Al23 Spoil
25 Russian rulers of yore
28 Sunni’s faith
29 Caught on to
31 Spring blossom32 Note to the staff33 Ump’s outstretched-arms call
34 Depletes, with “up”
35 *Hits the gas
37 Easel, e.g.
39 Goalpost part40 Green prefix
44 Moved like bees
46 Cave dweller
47 Most loyal
48 Sounds of surprise50 Singer LaBelle
52 Herb garden staple
53 “Nana” author Zola
54 Chopped into cubes
55 Word that can precede the starts of the 
answers to starred clues
56 Entice57 Feels sorry about
61 Chemical in Drano
62 Sighting in the sky, for shortBIKES
2013 La Pierre Carbon Road Bike - $1700. 
2013 Custom Built Carbon Road Bike. Bike is approximately one year old and in superb condition. Frame size is 55 cm. Bike was just serviced, replaced cable housing with all black, new cables, new all white handlebar 
tape. Listing ID: 108073085 at ucsdguard
-
ian.org/classifieds for more information
2013 Felt TK2 Track Bike - $1000. This is 
a barely used 2013 Felt TK2 track bike 
(MSRP $1799 new). This monster is fast, light, clean, and stiff. Listing ID: 108073083 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
TREK 3700 16’’/41 cm 7 speed - $90. I paint
-
ed the spokes with glow in the dark paint. 
Listing ID: 107743050 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
FURNITURE
Framed Vanity Mirrors - $250. Brand new, never used. One still in box unopened. Maple wood. Listing ID: 108462154 at ucs
-
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
Light Oak Wood Mission Style Coffee Table - Light oak mission style coffee table. In 
attractive condition. Cash sale $45 only. Listing ID: 105956509 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Vintage Thomasville Secretary/Writing 
Desk - $150. 1960s Thomasville Secretary/
Writing Desk.  Be creative, make extra 
money. 38L x 18W x 69H. Listing ID: 
105282456 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
ELECTRONICS
iPhone 4, 4s and iPod Touch 3rd Gen - The 
black iPhone needs a new casing front and back and is ready to go. The white 4s is 
three months old, has water damage, and 
can be fixed at any shop. The other white 
iPhone 4 needs a new case front and back and charging port replaced. iPod touch 3rd gen needs screen replacement. Listing ID: 108788386 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Projector Screens with Stands - Easy to 
collapse and carry. Listing ID: 107743059 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Seiki 50’’ LED HDTV - $300. New in box. 
Listing ID: 104606501 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
t
your visio n,
our missio n.
outfitters@ucsd.eduCreate custom a pparel to 
promote your student 
organiza tion with Triton 
Outfitter's new Made TO Order program!
 .com/ucsdguardian
YEARN E W
SHIRTSN E W
to.ucsd.edu 
LECT URE
NOTES
IS HIR ING
NOTETAKERS
FOR WINTER ‘15
Pick up an application at
Lecture Notes in the
Student Center
Must have 3.0 or better
Application & SAMPLE NOTES
 are due Wed of finals week
as-lecture-n otes@ucsd.eduwww.ucsdguardian.org/advertisingCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 12, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
ARTPOWER: OMA & BELLA
THE LOFT, PC EASTFRI1.16 • 8pmTahrirCAMPUS
CALENDAR
JAN 12 - JAN 182015 POWERED BY THE CHANCELLOR’S OFFICE AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guar dian
Calendar
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar @
ucsdgu ardian .orgMON1.12 WED1.14 TUE1.13
10am
GRAFFITI ART PARK: WINTER SHAKE UP - BETWEEN PORTER’S 
PUB AND MANDEVILLE AUD
The panels will be repainted for a fresh new quarter and for all 
your new forms of expression! Come celebrate our Winter Shake-Up at UCSD's new graffiti space! Limited spray paint will be provided. Bring your friends and make your mark!
2pm
HUNGRY FOR HEALTHY: NO BAKE GRANOLA BARS - THE ZONE
Starting off the new quarter, Hungry For Healthy is making No Bake Granola Bars! Come join our SHS Registered Dietician for 
the first Hungry For Healthy cooking demonstration for Winter 
Quarter! Materials and ingredients are provided. Hungry For 
Healthy is a free program here at The Zone, but space is limited so the program is first come, first serve!
3pm
LIVING OFF CAMPUS - PC WEST, ERC ROOM
An attorney will help you maximize your chances of having a positive experience as a renter by sharing information about your rights and responsibilities. Get the scoop on deposits, repairs, roommates, habitability and more! This workshop is part of the Student Legal Services "Discover the Law" series. Attend a total of four eligible workshops to receive your Certificate of Achievement! Visit the Student Legal Services website for more information.10am
BODY COMP ANALYSIS - STUDENT HEALTH SERVICES, RM 207
At this 15 minute appointment, students will receive a FREE 
computer generated analysis with the following information: 
body weight, body mass index (BMI), percentage body fat, 
calculated basal metabolic rate (BMR), fat mass, fat-free mass, 
and total body water. To make an appointment, email mnfish@ucsd.edu with your name, PID, and requested appointment date and time.
11am
ART AND SOUL: HOT COCOA IN A MASON JAR - THE ZONE
The Holidays may be over but that doesn't mean you can't 
snuggle up with a mug full of hot chocolate! Join us at the Zone 
to make your very own hot cocoa mix in a mason jar. It makes 
the perfect gift for a friend-- or a cup of cocoa for yourself on a 
cool January day. Workshops are free; all supplies and materials are provided. Space is limited and first come, first served.
4pm
R&R SQUAD - THE ZONE
The R&R Squad is in! Come in and de-stress with a massage! Learn more about our well-being resources on campus while 
get a 5-10min low-intensity back, neck, and arm massage from 
one of our trained wellness peers!
6pm
ENTREPRENEURSHIP 101 - STARTUP YOUR IDEA - PC
This is an introductory, hands-on class in building a company: 
what's needed to get from an idea or technology to a successful 
business. We will cover the early stages of starting a company, 
including legal formation and intellectual property protection, 
and will focus primarily on gaining the necessary understanding of who will buy your product or service and why they will want to buy. Starting with your idea, you will learn to build an appropriate team, identify prospective customers, interview them, and determine the right customers for your business. In the process, you will learn, through practice and coaching, how to pitch your idea effectively to relevant audiences. 
7pm
FITSTOP - RIMAC, BY THE LOCKERS
This FREE fitness assessment measures a person's level of fitness compared to others in the same age group. Special equipment and exercises are used to measure blood pressure, heart rate, percent of body fat, flexibility, cardiovascular endurance, abdominal strength and upper body strength.FRI1.16
12pm
GENDER BUFFET: WEEK 2 - WOMEN'S CENTER
Join us for the first Gender Buffet of the quarter. Each week we'll have snacks and conversation about different topics. This week we'll be talking about catcalling and street harassment.
8pm
ARTPOWER! PRESENTS: OMA AND BELLA - THE LOFT
Oma & Bella provides an intimate glimpse into the world of Regina Karolinski (Oma) and Bella Katz, two dynamic octogenarian friends who live together in Berlin. Survivors of the Holocaust who stayed in Germany after the war, it is through the food they cook together that they remember their childhoods, maintain a bond to each other, and answer questions of heritage, memory, and identity. Directed by Oma's granddaughter Alexa, the documentary captures their ongoing struggle to retain the past while remaining very much engaged in the present.10am
FARMERS’ MARKET - TOWN SQUARE
Celebrating 10 years with local farmers and food vendors since 
2004!
12pm
RELAY FOR LIFE KICKOFF - PRICE CENTER EAST BALLROOM
Learn how to fight cancer and have fun too! All are invited to 
learn more about the biggest fundraising event on campus happening! Returning teams and those interested in learning more about this fun filled event are invited. We celebrate our cancer survivors, remember those we've lost, and fight back against this horrible disease.  Our theme this year is "Board Games:" Free food and prizes will be given to those that visit every station at the event. Come and Go as you please.
7pm
OUTREACH TRIVIA NIGHT - HOME PLATE CAFE
FOOD, FACTS, FRIENDS, & FUN! Come to Home Plate Café to meet new people and test your knowledge of various trivia categories! Free entry to all UCSD students, teams of 4, and prizes for winning team! Make this a weekly event and turn up the competition! Happy hour prices on food and drinks for trivia participants! ALL STUDENTS WELCOME! COME AS A TEAM OR BY YOURSELF!
THU1.15
4pm
MOXIE CENTER OPEN HOUSE AND PITCHFEST - CSE BUILDING, 
RM B210
The Moxie Center for Student Entrepreneurship invites you to their Winter Open 
House and Pitchfest. No applications or signups required. Come try out your pitch or just watch, vote, and enjoy free pizza!
6pm
IMMIGRATION LAW - INTERNATIONAL CENTER, OCEANIDS 
PAVILION
Learn about the different ways people can come to the 
United States and stay, whether through a VISA program or by obtaining citizenship. Also discussed will be Deferred Action and other laws affecting non-citizens.
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
BRANDON  YU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 12, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
HITTING THEIR STRIDE
Women’s Win Streak at Five Men Win Third Straight
This past weekend, the UCSD men’s basketball team saw serious promise and success 
as the Tritons won two all-important conference games. UCSD took down the California 
Collegiate Athletic Association’s No. 1 seed Sonoma State University 64–57 in front of a 
season-high 1,671 fans at RIMAC Arena before defeating San Francisco State University 
71–58 the following day. 
With the two wins, the Tritons are now on a three-game winning streak and stand at 
6–5 overall and 4–3 in the CCAA. 
The Tritons played an impressive game on Friday night against the CCAA ’s top squad, 
shooting an imposing 57 percent during the second half. 
The Tritons were down 25–21 at the half, but it was in the second frame that they took 
over the ball game, going 12 of 21 from the field and had an impressive 85 percent (17 of 
20) free-throw percentage. 
UCSD’s advantage came during a 14–1 run between 15:34 and 10:11 left in the game 
to jump from behind into a 43–31 lead. Following this turnaround, Sonoma State man -
aged to narrow the lead to five points, but UCSD kept the lead intact to close out the win. 
“It was really our defense that kept us in the game in [the] beginning when we were 
behind at first, ” junior forward Hunter Walker told the UCSD Athletics Department. “I 
also think we fed off the crowd after a couple of shots fell through. It felt like we compet -
ed and did everything Coach told us to do, and that’s why we kept them at a low-scoring 
shooting percentage. ” 
As a team, the Tritons made 44 percent of their field goals and had three players who 
scored double-doubles during the game. Walker led the team with a game-high 15 points, 
followed closely by sophomore guards Adam Klie with 14 and Aleks Lipovic with 10. 
“With a huge win over the No. 1 seed, it just means we can compete with anyone and 
everyone, ” UCSD head coach Eric Olen said. “When we play good basketball, it’s a high 
enough level to have success on any given night at home, away, against anyone in the league. ”This weekend’s doubleheader was a successful one for the Tritons as they defeated 
Sonoma State 69–59 on Friday and moved on to trounce San Francisco State 94–61 
on Saturday. UCSD is now on a five-game winning streak, all in conference play, and 
stand at 8–5 overall and 6–2 in the California Collegiate Athletic Association.
Defense took over in the opening minutes of Friday night’s game. Both UCSD and 
Sonoma State started off cold from the field, but the Tritons slowly built a 16–12 lead 
with nine minutes remaining in the first half. 
Despite playing without starters in senior guard Miranda Seto and sophomore 
guard Haley Anderson, the Tritons’ second unit proceeded to come in and show 
UCSD’s depth. With senior center Dana Webster (15 points, 10 rebounds) and sopho -
more guard Beth Mounier (10 points) leading the charge, the Tritons continued to 
build up their lead to enter halftime with a 35–21 edge. 
“We have quality depth, and with two starters out, we had people stepping up, ” 
UCSD head coach Heidi VanDerveer said. “We have people that can step in every 
night, and we are priding ourselves in getting defensive stops and aggressive re -
bounding. It’s just defensive discipline, and everybody can play defense. ”
UCSD did not let off the pressure coming back from the locker rooms. Rapid-fire 
points from junior forward Farrah Shokoor and sophomore forward Cassie MacLeod 
pushed the lead to 24 at 52–28 with 14 minutes remaining. Five minutes later, the 
Tritons would put the game out of reach with an even bigger 62–34 lead. The last nine 
minutes saw a late surge by Sonoma State, who cut the lead to nine but could not 
overcome the severe deficit as UCSD cruised to a victory.
“We were a little concerned about missing two of our starting players, but for the 
most part we knew that we all had to step up, ” Webster said. “It feels good to know 
that, defensively, I was there and ready to help my teammates. We are a lot more 
together, we found our rhythm just getting our shots down and playing defense. ”
The UCSD men’s volleyball 
team began its season this week 
with mixed results. While the Triton 
men fell short against Concordia 
University Irvine in a 3–1 loss on 
Wednesday, they managed to bounce 
back with a triumphant 3–2 victory 
against Grand Canyon University on 
Saturday. The two-game road stand 
puts UCSD at a 1–1 record to kick 
off the 2015 campaign. 
UCSD travelled to the Concordia 
University Arena on Wednesday 
night for the first-ever meeting 
between the Tritons and the Eagles. 
Unfortunately, UCSD came off 
second best, losing in four sets with 
final scores of 25–17, 25–14, 24–26 
and 25–19.
UCSD started the stronger of the 
two teams, picking up the first two 
points but were soon overturned 
by the Eagles. After gaining five of 
six points after a 9–9 deadlock, the 
home side gained momentum and pushed on to take the first set. The 
Eagles managed to take the second 
set in a similar style, defeating the 
Tritons by 11 points. 
The third set was a much more 
even contest with both teams 
matching each other point-for-point. 
With the score tied at 24–24, a kill 
from freshman outside hitter Calvin 
Manchenko and an ace from junior 
middle blocker Mathew Schnitzer 
helped UCSD prevail and pull a set 
back.
In the fourth set, both teams 
struggled to pull away from each 
other. The set featured five tied 
scores before Concordia managed 
to take the win after four successive 
points, making the final tally 25–19.
Despite the loss, UCSD head 
coach Kevin Ring remained positive 
about the performance. 
“Something we did really well 
was never quit, ” Ring said. “We were 
pretty relentless, and that’s going to 
be a key for us going forward. That’s 
got to be there night in, night out. ”Volleyball Splits OpenerMEN'S  VOLLEYBALL
Tritons fall to Concordia, take comeback win versus GCU.
B Y  liam  leahy
staff writer
See M. VOLLEYBALL,  page 9See W. BASKETBALL,  page 9 See M. BASKETBALL,  page 9M. Volleyball
W. Basketball
M. Basketball
Swim/Dive
W. Tennis     1/14
     1/16      
     1/16
     1/17
     1/17AT Long Beach State
AT Cal State L.A.
AT Cal State L.A.
VS. Cal Baptist University
AT UC IrvineUPCOMING
UCSD
GAMES
BASKETBALL
BY MARCUS THUILLER STAFF WRITER
PHOTO  USED WITH PERMISSION FROM UCSD ATHLETICSBY GURKIRAT SINGH STAFF WRITER
PHOTO  USED WITH PERMISSION FROM UCSD ATHLETICS
PHOTO BY SIDDHARTH ATRE / GUARDIAN FILE