VOLUME 48, ISSUE 37  MONDAY, MARCH 2, 2015 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
BLACK HISTORY 
MONTH
KEYNOTE SPEAKER  AND 
EMMY-NOMINATED ACTOR 
GIANCARLO ESPOSITO 
ADDRESSED STUDENTS AND 
FACULTY AT THE 13TH ANNUAL 
BLACK HISTORY MONTH 
SCHOLARSHIP BRUNCH.
COLLEGE  MENT AL  HEAL TH
ENDING  ON  A  HIGH  NOTEStudent   A w areness  Is  key 
tritons  win  seventh  straightOpinion,  P age   4
sports,  P age  12
MONDAY
H 61 L 46TUESDAY
H 63 L 46
WEDNESDAY
H 66 L 48THURSDAY
H 72 L 43
FORECAST
VERBATIM
IF WE ALL 
AGREED, 
THERE WOULD 
BE LITTLE 
NEED FOR A 
COUNCIL. A.S. 
COUNCIL IS 
GOOD AT DISAGREEING, AND 
THAT’S AS IT SHOULD BE”
- SOREN NELSON
POINT OF ORDER
OPINION , PAGE 4
INSIDE
LIGHTS AND SIRENS  ....... 3
QUICK TAKES  .................. 4
UCSD ALUMNUS  ............. 7
CROSSWORD  ................ 10
MEN’S BASKETBALL  .....12“
FEA TURES,  P AGE  6
PHOTO BY SIDDHARTH ATRE / GUARDIAN
Professors and Students 
Protest Low Wages 
Members of the UCSD community ral -
lied in solidarity with the Nationwide 
Adjunct Walkout and Day of Action in 
front of Geisel Library on Feb 25. The rally par -
ticipants protested for higher pay and better job 
security for the increasing number of adjuncts 
— temporary, part-time professors — at colleges.
According to adjunct professor at San Diego 
City College Larissa Dorman, 75 percent of col -
lege faculty in California work part time. 
“What they want is really cheap labor because 
they’ d rather bring in somebody young and new 
and pay them less, ” Dorman told Public News 
Service. “That’s the kind of stuff that really makes 
this a civil rights issue; it makes it a worker’s 
rights issue. ”
Dorman also said that many adjuncts, includ -
ing herself, work at several different campuses. 
She made $36,000 teaching six classes last semes -
ter but could have made twice as much if she had 
been working full time and teaching five classes.Latin American Studies graduate student at 
UCSD Daniel Gutierrez expressed to Public 
News Service his frustration that he can’t use 
adjunct professors for his research committees 
even though they know his work the best. 
After the protest, which commenced at noon, 
University Council-American Federation of 
Teachers hosted a teach-in titled “Toward a 
Democratic University” at the Y osemite Room in 
Earl Warren College. In addition to the adjunct 
issues, the participants discussed topics related 
to the University of California system, such as 
neoliberalism, race and community. 
Gutierrez, who was also one of the panel mem -
bers at the teach-in, told the UCSD Guardian 
that the rally was not only about the adjunct 
issue but also the series of interrelated problems 
connected to it.
“Trying to solve just one problem won’t work, ” 
Gutierrez said. “We want to mobilize different 
agents on campus to work together, to bring   B y  JACKY TO    STAFF WRITERSan Diego 
Universities 
Launch Joint 
Ph.D. ProgramGRADUATE STUDIES
The UCSD/SDSU doctoral 
program focuses on evaluating 
the effects of drug abuse and 
creating high-risk behavior 
prevention programs. 
B Y  Br ynna Bol t
STAFF Writer
The Division of Global 
Public Health at UCSD and the 
School of Social Work at San 
Diego State have launched a 
new joint doctoral program in 
interdisciplinary research on 
substance use anticipated to begin 
in Fall 2015. Students involved 
with the program, which is still 
open to applicants, will spend 
time studying at and working with 
faculty from both campuses.
Research will also be conducted 
concerning the social and health 
consequences of such use. 
Furthermore, researchers will 
work toward creating prevention 
programs to reduce high-risk 
behavior.
Co-directors of the program 
include Associate Dean of Global 
Health at UCSD Steffanie Strathdee 
and Associate Professor in the 
School of Social Work at SDSU 
Maria Luisa Zuniga. 
Strathdee said that the types of 
students accepted into the program 
will be from a variety of academic 
backgrounds.
“We are trying to cultivate the 
next generation of researchers to 
help on these interdisciplinary-
related issues, ” Strathdee told the 
UCSD Guardian. “We’re drawing 
from students with experience 
across a variety of fields, not just 
public health and social work. ” 
Students will spend the first 
year of the program in residence at 
SDSU and the second in residence 
at UCSD. Once advanced to 
doctoral candidacy, participants 
can take classes on both campuses. 
Applicants are required to hold 
a master’s degree in a related social 
science or professional program 
from an accredited university or 
college and have foundational 
research experience. 
Strathdee feels that there 
is an increasing global need for 
the kind of research the program                   
will produce. 
“This is the first doctoral 
program of its kind, ” Strathdee.  
“It requires an interdisciplinary 
approach to prevent and treat the 
harm of substance use. Since it’s a 
growing issue both in the United 
States and globally, we thought this 
was a timely opportunity. ”
The doctoral program appears at 
a time when 30 countries, including 
the U.S., have decriminalized drugs 
to some extent. Strathdee feels that 
the program could benefit the 
evolution in policy.
“These kinds of national See PROTEST , page 3
Students and faculty march on Library Walk during the Nationwide Adjunct Walkout and Day of Action to demand higher wages 
and better job security for part-time professors. Photo by Vivian Luong / UCSD Guardian.AROUND CAMPUS
The Santa Barbara County 
Sheriff ’s Office recently released a 
64-page investigative summary of a 
mass murder that took the lives of 
six UC Santa Barbara students last 
May. Released on Feb. 18, the police 
report includes new information 
that suggests that perpetrator Elliot 
Rodger had shown signs of mental 
instability well before he committed 
six homicides, 14 attempted murders 
and eventually suicide in Isla Vista.
The report provides a 
comprehensive analysis of the 
suspect’s personal and criminal 
history, the 17 different crime 
scenes, the victims and witnesses at 
each location, autopsies for all seven 
mortalities and all evidence collected 
throughout the investigation. After 
eight months of examination, the 
release of this report officially concludes the investigation of the 
Isla Vista massacre.
In an introductory statement to 
the investigative summary, Santa 
Barbara County Sheriff-Coroner 
Bill Brown said that Rodger’s mental 
instability affected his actions and 
way of life, but the extent of that 
impact could not have been obvious 
to health professionals.
“ As an adult he did not effectively 
deal with those issues or even 
recognize them, quickly blaming 
others for his problems. This was 
especially true in his interactions 
with women, ” Sheriff Brown said. 
“In retrospect, the contribution 
this made to the actions of May 23 
was extremely significant; however, 
those mental health professionals 
who saw and treated him did not see 
anything that would have predicted 
his future behavior. ”
One of the investigation’s main 
focuses was examining Rodger’s 
past, which included multiple interactions with police, as well as 
a history of mental health issues. 
In the investigative summary, the 
sheriff ’s office publicized selections 
from Rodger’s internet search 
history that could be considered 
suspicious and were, therefore, 
classified as evidence.
The compilation of Rodger’s 
internet history includes recurring 
searches for Adolf Hitler, Heinrich 
Himmler and knife-related violence. 
He used two different fixed-blade 
knives to fatally stab his first three 
victims inside his apartment, two 
of whom were his housemates. The 
report also reveals that Rodger 
visited an online anxiety forum on 
May 22 and accessed pornographic 
websites on May 23, which was the 
day of the massacre and his suicide.
The investigative summary also 
discusses the misogynistic content 
of Rodger’s journal entries, where Police Release New Report on Isla Vista Shootings
The investigative summary denotes that Elliot Rodgers had shown signs of mental instability.uc  s y stem
B Y   KRITI  SARIN
ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITOR 
See  UCSB , page 2 See DOCTORAL , page 32 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 2, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG N EWS
DIGITAL MONKEYS By Jeff Lau
#OMG 
#LIKE US
#FOLLOW US
@ucsdguar dianDavid Makovsky visited UCSD 
as part of his February college tour 
sponsored by the Israel on Campus 
Coalition on Wednesday, Feb. 25. 
Makovsky is a Ziegler Distinguished 
Fellow at the Washington Institute 
and director of the Project on the 
Middle East Peace Process.
Makovsky spoke to a group of 
students at the Green Table Room 
in Price Center. The topics he 
discussed included Israeli politics, 
the peace process between Israel 
and Palestine, Jewish-student life 
on campus and coalition-building 
between Jewish and non-Jewish 
students on campuses. He then 
took questions from students on 
issues such as Israeli Prime Minister 
Benjamin Netanyahu’s upcoming 
speech to the U.S. Congress on 
March 3, The David Horowitz 
Freedom Center’s ranking of anti-Semitic colleges and possible 
successors of Palestinian President 
Mahmoud Abbas.
When asked by the UCSD 
Guardian for his view on the recent 
vote by the UC Student Association 
to divest from companies that 
conduct business with Israel, 
Makovsky stated that it’s creating a 
divide between students. 
“I see this issue as ripping 
students apart, ” Makovsky said. “It’s 
making some students feel that they 
are not welcome on campus, that 
[their] campus is a hostile place. ”
Makovsky added that he 
doesn’t believe divestment has any     
practical outcome.
“On the one hand, it’s merely 
symbolic, ” Makovsky noted. “The 
University actually doesn’t divest 
itself — it does all the damage 
without any of the positive. ”
However, Thurgood Marshall 
College junior Amira Abudiab, the 
president of Students for Justice 
in Palestine at UCSD, told the Guardian that divestment does, in 
fact, have important implications 
for ending the occupation of the 
Palestinian territories. 
“Divestment is the same tactic 
that was used for the South African 
apartheid, ” Abudiab said.
Abudiab cited Caterpillar as 
one of the companies SJP is calling 
on the University of California 
system to divest from. According 
to Abudiab, Caterpillar customizes 
and sells bulldozers to Israel for the 
destruction of Palestinian homes. 
Rather than putting students’ 
energy toward divestment, 
Makovsky said he would like to see 
it used for investment instead.
 “Invest in relationships, in 
coalition building, in creative 
programming, ” Makovsky 
proposed. “That would bring 
students together who maybe have 
a different set of perspectives. ”
Makovsky also told the Guardian 
his thoughts on the current 
reconstruction of Gaza. “The problem is that right now 
there is a standoff, ” Makovsky 
said. “The Palestinian [National] 
Authority has the international 
backing, but they don’t really want 
to go in because it’s dangerous. ”
“I’m putting my neck out on the 
line on this — there’ll end up being 
a unity government, ” Makovsky said 
with regard to the upcoming Israeli 
elections. “I tend to think there’s no 
choice; you cannot have a narrow 
government that’s going to be able 
to deal with all the challenges that 
Israel has to deal with. ”
Makovsky is an adjunct 
professor in Middle Eastern Studies 
at Johns Hopkins University’s 
Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced 
International Studies and recently 
finished a 10-month stint in the 
U.S. government as a senior advisor 
on Secretary of State John Kerry’s 
peace team. U.S. Israeli-Palestinian Diplomat Visits UCSD on College Tour
Professor David Makovsky spoke to students about coalition building and addressed issues including divestment from Israel.
B Y   maris Sebas
staff writer
Maria Sebas   msebas@ucsd.edu readers can contact
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGsee more at
updates on tuition hikes, upcoming albums, and game results.The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and 
Thursdays during the academic year by UCSD students 
and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this 
newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, 
without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2014, all 
rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible 
for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The 
views expressed herein do not necessarily represent 
the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of 
California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is 
funded by advertising. Double pineapple pizza.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Aleksandra Konstantinovic
Andrew E. Huang  
Taylor Sanderson
Tina Butoiu
Kriti Sarin
Charu Mehra
Cassia Pollock
Brandon Yu
John Story
Teiko Yakobson
Jacqueline Kim
Kyle Somers
Nilu Karimi
Siddharth Atre
Jonathan Gao
Joselynn Ordaz
Sherman Aline
Elyse Yang
Annie Liu
Rosina Garcia
Laura Chow
Vincent PhamEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
  
Associate News Editor
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Social Media Coordinator
Training and Development
Page Layout
Charu Mehra, Allison Kubo
Copy Readers
Andrew Chao, Caroline Lee, Micaela Stone
Editorial Assistants
Shelby Newallis, Jennifer Grundman,  
Karly Nisson, Mario Attie, Marcus Thuillier
N EWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 2, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
experiments need researchers to 
evaluate them to inform [the] way 
forward, ” Strathdee said. “We’re 
hoping to equip people with a 
broad set of skills to inform this 
policy. ”
Executive Director of Student 
Health and Well-Being Karen 
Calfas, who graduated from a joint doctoral program between UCSD 
and SDSU, feels that the impact 
will also be felt locally.
“This JDP has the potential 
to provide opportunities for 
collaboration and evaluation 
of new interventions and harm 
reduction programs that could 
benefit our campus community, ” 
Calfas told the Guardian. “ As you 
know, drug and alcohol use are a growing concern on most college 
campuses, and access to work with 
cutting edge researchers would be 
very welcomed. ”
This will be the 14th joint 
doctoral program between UCSD 
and SDSU.a different climate to the univer -
sity and to work toward creating a 
democratic university. ”
Gutierrez also informed the 
Guardian that he is a member of 
UCSD’s General Assembly — an 
organization that examines and 
attempts to formulate responses to 
these issues — and currently are 
primarily focused on the goal of 
outreach.
“We’ve been doing a lot of 
research, and now that research has 
to translate into outreach, ” Gutierrez 
said. “That way, we can better artic -ulate what’s going on with the uni -
versity and better motivate people 
to come out. ”
When asked about a potential 
statewide student walkout on March 
5 that one of the rally members 
mentioned at the teach-in, Gutierrez 
said that the GA is holding off on an 
attempt to organize a corresponding 
movement at UCSD.
“Right now, we have to probe 
whether the school’s ready for that 
and if there are social bases that can 
be mobilized by then, ” Gutierrez 
said.
During the protest, Geisel 
Library hosted an unassociated panel in the Seuss Room titled 
“ Activism, Policing and Black Lives 
Matter, ” in which professors exam -
ined the roots of injustice and pro -
posed ways of creating a sustained 
movement to fight them.
Panelists included UCSD 
Communication Professor 
Zeinabu Davis, Associate Ethnic 
Studies Professor Dayo Gore and 
Associate History Professor Daniel 
Widener, as well as Cal State San 
Marcos Sociology Professor Cesar 
Rodriguez.Professors Also Held an Unassociated Activism Panel Inside Geisel
New Health Program Will Be 14th JDP Between UCSD and SDSU  JACKY TO  J6TO@ucsd.edu readers can contact
Br ynna  bol t   bbolt@ucsd.edu readers can contactLIGHTS & SIRENSLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edu.
Friday, Feb 20
7:35 pm: Drunk Driving - No 
Injuries
Underage driver found with blood-
alcohol content greater than or 
equal to 0.05% and alcohol in 
vehicle at Torrey Pines Gliderport. 
Closed by Citation.
10:46 pm: Reckless Driving
A vehicle was doing donuts in Lot 
P706. Unable to Locate.
2:37 am: Suspicious Person
A non-affiliate entered an unlocked 
kitchen area and started cooking. 
Student in vicinity felt uncomfort -
able.  Stay away order issued.
Saturday, Feb 21
10:37 pm: Public Intoxication
A female was found intoxicated 
in the bushes at Muir Commons. 
Transported to Detox.
3:11 am: VandalismCall was received for a possible 
burglary. Unknown person(s) using 
an unknown object broke a win -
dow. Total damage: $500.00. Report 
Taken.
Sunday, Feb 22
1:55 am: Welfare Check
A Community Service Officer 
reported an adult male walking 
around nude at Lot P016. Psych 
Subject. Transported to Hospital for 
Evaluation.
8:00am: Burglary
Adult male found in possession of 
burglary tools while committing 
second-degree burglary. Closed by 
Adult Arrest. 
— SIDDHARTH ATRE
Photo Editor▶ PROTEST,  from page 1
▶ DOCTORAL,  from page 1
he frequently wrote about “exacting 
revenge on women” on his “Day 
of Retribution. ” After committing 
his first three homicides, Rodger 
emailed a 137-page autobiographical 
manifesto to several family members 
in which he discussed feeling 
severely unhappy and angry.
Sheriff Brown said that the 
foretelling evidence that was 
gathered from Rodger’s personal 
accounts could provide significant insight about mental health 
treatments in the form of a federally 
conducted psychological autopsy.
“What is unusual in this case 
is the extent of the written and 
videotaped record of thoughts, 
feelings and intentions left by a 
suspect who, in retrospect, clearly 
suffered from significant mental 
illness that ultimately resulted in 
homicidal and suicidal rage, ” Brown 
said in the introduction to the 
official report. “It is our hope that a 
thorough review of these materials by mental health professionals 
and the FBI’s Behavioral Research 
and Instruction Unit, in essence, 
the conducting of a psychological 
autopsy, will result in findings that 
will assist in the development of 
new and improved intervention 
techniques and practices related 
to the cause, identification and 
treatment of such pathologies. ”Sheriff  Hopes Evidence is Used to Improve Intervention Techniques
KRITI SARIN   bbolt@ucsd.edu readers can contact▶ UCSB,  from page 1Keep up with campus  
and statewide news
follow us on Facebook ,  
& twitter 
@ucsdguardian
BY KYLE SZETO/ GUARDIAN4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 2, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CHARU  MEHRA
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
All Alone 
Increasing rates of  mental health issues and suicides among college students need to be 
properly addressed and supported, both by students and administrators. ILLUSTRATION BY ELYSE YANG
With suicide accounting for 20 percent 
of deaths for people between 15 and 24 
and ranking as the 10th leading cause 
of death for all ages, according to the Centers 
for Disease Control and Prevention, suicide-
prevention discussion among college students 
has been long overdue. It is time for college 
administrators and students alike to discuss the 
terrifying ubiquity of suicide and work to make 
tangible, positive changes to these statistics. 
While most college campuses have services 
for mental health, such as UCSD’s Counseling 
and Psychological Services, many students feel 
guilty about using these services, don’t know 
how to access these services or are even punished 
for seeking help. A Newsweek article reported 
that a UC Santa Barbara student who had been 
suffering from anxiety cut herself in the shower, 
and the resident advisor was subsequently 
notified. The student was reprimanded for 
allegedly violating the housing contract by 
putting other residents in “danger. ” The stress 
and anxiety that college brings is overwhelming, 
and no student — or anyone, for that matter — 
should be punished for this. Instead, after the RA had been notified, the student should have been 
informed of resources on campus that could have 
helped her during this arduous time in her life. 
Elliot Rodger, who killed six people in Isla 
Vista in May 2014 and ended up committing 
suicide, clearly exhibited signs of mental 
disturbances. In the aftermath of his horrific 
attack on other students, many suggested that 
the tragedy could have been prevented if more 
attention had been given to his symptoms by 
police, the school administration and his fellow 
students. In order to prevent incidents like this 
from happening, Rodger’s father has established a 
website, AskForHelp.org, so that people can have 
access to resources about mental health. 
Services like CAPS should be a little more 
transparent with stressing the importance of 
taking care of ourselves mentally. During the 
midterm season, which is basically all the time 
at UCSD, one of the biology professors at UCSD 
reminded her students during lecture to make an 
appointment with CAPS if life felt overwhelming. 
Even if most students don’t feel this way, it’s nice 
to know that there is an option to get help. And 
that’s how mental health should be addressed to 
See MENTAL HEALTH,  page 5
Last year, Chancellor Khosla signed a memorandum of understanding 
with Autonomous University in Baja California President Felipe Cuamea 
Velazquez that is intended to strengthen university ties across the border 
and allow for, according to Khosla, a “meaningful exchange of ideas and 
resources between our students and faculty. ” However, this agreement 
is not new; UCSD has had a long history of collaboration with sundry 
Mexican institutions. A couple of months later, UC President Janet 
Napolitano signed a five-year agreement with Leonardo Beltran, the 
Mexican secretariat of energy and deputy secretary for energy energy 
planning and transition, to allow for cooperation on addressing issues, 
such as renewable energy resources, that are faced by both countries.
As our world is becoming globalized and cultural flows are increasing, 
it is necessary for institutions to work together to improve the needs of 
populations on both sides of the border. While the effects of the initiative 
are yet to be seen, the UC-Mexico Initiative and other agreements like it 
will bring awareness to conditions individuals in Mexico face, considering 
that, as of 2011, 83 percent of the approximately 14.4 million Latinos, of 
whom make up 39 percent of California’s population, living in the state are 
from Mexico, and immigration rates are increasing.
Immigration continues to be a contentious issue, especially after 
President Obama passed executive orders deferring the deportation of 
illegal immigrants. Although the initiatives are primarily focused on 
research, they will undoubtedly provide a perspective on how an easier 
exchange of ideas can benefit both countries. Additionally, students are 
given the opportunity to obtain skills, such as learning Spanish, and a 
cultural understanding less inhibited by a heavily guarded border.
—  TINA BUTOIU
News EditorMultilingualism Should Be Prioritized With
University of  California Mexico Initiative Student Exchange Program Will Improve 
International Relations and Cultural Understanding
Imagine an American high school student with an Italian father and a 
Spanish mother that was put in a European school system with a language 
curriculum of French, English and German every year since the sixth 
grade. Knowing multiple languages enhances curriculum vitae and helps 
young students to get in touch with other cultures, therefore helping them 
better understand the modern world we live in. The American system does 
not allow for the same cultural awareness, and it is far behind in terms of 
languages, as other countries at least learn English as a second language 
very early in a student’s education. 
With Mexico emerging as a world power, it is becoming important 
for a border state, like California, to pay more attention to multicultural 
homes, especially those with Latin-American immigrants. Getting students 
to learn Spanish on a more consistent basis would strengthen the links 
between the United States and Mexico, just as the UC-Mexico Initiative 
plans to do. 
The 2015 class of incoming freshmen will be the first in UC history 
with a higher percentage of Latino students than white students. The Los 
Angeles Times tells us that “28.8 percent of those admitted to at least 
one UC campus were Latino, compared with 26.8 percent white. At 36.2 
percent, Asian-Americans again made up the largest ethnic group among 
admitted students from California. Blacks from California were just 4.2 
percent. ” This is evidence that the culture is changing in the United States, 
which also means there needs to be a change in the culture of education. 
In a new era of globalization, knowing several languages is an advantage 
that the United States has to enforce on students, not only in college, but at 
every level.
— MARCUS THUILLIER
Staff Writer
QUICK TAKESTHE RECENTLY PROPOSED UC MEXICO INITIATIVE CREATES A PARTNERSHIP WITH UNIVERSIDAD AUTONOMA DE BAJA 
CALIFORNIA MEXICO, INCREASING POLITICAL AND CULTURAL TIES BETWEEN CALIFORNIA AND MEXICO.BY ROSINA GARCIA
COPY EDITOR
Tom Rath, author of 
StrengthsFinder, said “Y ou 
cannot be anything you want 
to be — but you can be a lot more of 
who you already are. ” His approach to 
leadership and personal development 
advocates that we should build on 
what we’re already good at. Perhaps 
that’s exactly what A.S. Council 
should do.
A.S. Council is, as always, 
immersed in what appears to be 
drama and dysfunction. As one of 
several strongly-worded resignation 
letters noted, “too many council meet -
ings have not been reflecting student 
priorities. ” While I don’t necessarily 
disagree with that, let me offer anoth -
er perspective: Instead of fighting 
what seems to be A.S. Council’s natu -
ral disposition to self-serving drama, 
we should embrace it. Let me explain.
Conflict is healthy — especially 
when it’s managed well. Y es, A.S. 
Council occasionally misbehaves; 
but I would be more concerned by 
a council that agreed on everything. 
If we all agreed, there would be little 
need for a council. A.S. Council is 
good at disagreeing, and that’s as it 
should be. Consideration of bylaws 
is a normal and important function 
of an organization. And yes, that 
includes election bylaws. Some insti -
tutional streamlining (AKA make 
council smaller) might help improve 
conversation efficiency. But at the end 
of the day, the process by which we 
select our representatives on council 
deserves the attention it has garnered.
What this comes down to is that 
A.S. Council is divided into two 
groups: “talkers” and “doers. ” Speaking 
in broad strokes, elected senators 
are the “talkers, ” or the philosophi -
cal heart of the council — ostensibly 
representing the needs and wants 
of UCSD students. Conversely, the 
“doers” — appointed Associate Vice 
Presidents and their staff — are there 
to carry out the vision of the elected 
council. And while their input is 
invaluable, they serve a very different 
function than that of a senator. It’s 
little wonder why people are frustrat -
ed with the topics of conversation in 
A.S. Council. The “doers” want to do, 
and the “talkers” want to talk. We’re 
not going to change the nature of A.S. 
Council — there will always be heated 
debate over apparently innocuous, 
self-serving topics like election bylaws. 
To fight what comes naturally to 
A.S. Council is the wrong approach. 
Instead, we should channel it. 
ASUCSD is one of the few student 
associations in the UC system that 
has an integrated council, where sena -
tors, executives and program directors 
share a meeting. A.S. Council goes 
through the gyrations of resigna -
tions and bitter condemnations every 
year, and every year everyone acts 
surprised. Doing the same thing and 
expecting a different result is the defi -
nition of insanity. Perhaps it’s time for 
ASUCSD to make a major structural 
change that better reflects what we 
want from A.S. Council, and stop try -
ing to be something it’s not. 
 ASUCSD
Needs a
Structural
Change
soren  nelson 
senelson@ucsd.edupoint of order
OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 2, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
students: Y ou can get better, and 
there are options. 
However, not only is it the 
administration’s job to make sure 
students have access to mental 
health services but it is also the 
duty of students to be aware of 
some red-flag behaviors of their 
peers and not to casually brush 
these symptoms aside. While 
students don’t need to painstakingly 
search for these symptoms in 
their friends and classmates, it is 
important to be aware of them and 
to take action if they do become 
an issue. On Feb. 26, NBC News 
reported that Facebook will be 
including a feature to prevent suicide. This feature will allow 
users to flag a friend’s post if the 
user thinks the post contains 
suicidal thoughts. Facebook will 
then alert the user that “a friend 
thinks [they] might be going 
through something difficult. ” They 
then have the option to talk to 
someone or to get tips and support 
from places, such as the National 
Suicide Prevention Lifeline. It can 
be difficult to directly confront a 
friend, so this feature is helpful in 
allowing friends to anonymously 
look out for each other and address 
this issue. 
At a certain point, there’s only 
so much that can be done to 
prevent suicide, but there is hope 
if we persist in preventing suicide and taking the opportunity to tell 
people that they matter. At the 
87th Academy Awards, adapted-
screenplay winner for “The Imitation 
Game” Graham Moore did just that 
in his acceptance speech. He took 
the opportunity to talk about his 
attempted suicide as a teenager and 
encouraged others who feel “weird” 
and “different” to stay that way: “I 
would like for this moment to be for 
that kid out there who feels like she 
doesn’t fit in anywhere. Y ou do. Stay 
weird. Stay different, and then when 
it’s your turn and you are standing 
on this stage, please pass the same 
message along. ” WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
Increasing Awareness Must Make Its Way to College Campuses
▶ MENTAL HEALTH,  from page 4GOT ISSUES?
BE HEARD
BY YOUR PEERS!SEND YOUR 
LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
READERS CAN CONTACT
RMG008@ucsd.edu6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 2, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
TEIKO  Y AKOBSON
features@ucsdguardian.org
Just 28 days later, Black History Month has encouraged all those who participated in the campuswide 
events to carry February’s message throughout the year, and everyone received a final spark of inspira -
tion from Emmy-nominated actor and keynote speaker Giancarlo Esposito. 
Taking place in Price Center Ballroom West, with an array of staff, students and faculty trickling into 
the silent auction and the trace smells of seasoned home fries and collard greens permeating the room, the 
13th Annual Black History Month Scholarship Brunch made it easy to feel in the present. To be fully pres -
ent, however, is to understand why everyone has gathered for this special occasion, bidding on anything from 
children’s beach-play sets and exclusive hotel stays to hand-crocheted blankets and date-night baskets. To have 
been fully present was to look at Black History Month holistically, and what all the buzz was really about.
For students, Black History Month means a number of things.
“It’s important to be part of Black History Month events. It’s for us and [is] the one time that it’s cel -
ebrated to be black, ” Revelle College sophomore Andre Thompson said.
“What students can appreciate and learn about is a culture that we may not have lived through, ” Muir 
College junior Jessy Nguyen said.
 “Black History Month is about remembering and learning and spreading awareness, ” Revelle graduate 
student Matt Sasaki said.
Chancellor Khosla spoke about the importance of Black History Month, scholarships for underrepre -
sented minorities and trying to raise enough money to have students meeting financial aid criteria and be -
ing able to graduate from UCSD without loans. The installments of two art pieces this month — the statue 
of Sojourner Truth, located in Thurgood Marshall College, by UCSD alumna Manuelita Brown and the 
Black Legacy Mural in Price Center East by San Diego artist Andrea Rushing — further pushed Khosla’s 
vision of an inclusive campus.
“These pieces of art are meant to celebrate the accomplishments of African-Americans, ” said Khosla. “They 
are meant to educate us as we walk by the campus day in and day out. We need to be able to see art, and we 
need to see that it represents every one of us. Every piece of art … we need to be able to see ourselves in and 
know that we belong. My goal is that we can make this campus completely inclusive and very diverse. ”
The two UJIMA Network Black History Month Scholarship recipients, whom the brunch was centrally 
focused on, continued the remarks of why this event was important.
“Black is beautiful, ” scholarship recipient Dante Paul said. “It’s art. It’s resistance. It’s power. It’s resil -
ience. It’s excellence, not always perfect, but truly inspiring. ”
“Black history doesn’t have to be an academic text, ” scholarship recipient Kiana Wickliffe added. “My 
study of black history is not, and never will be, limited to the month of February. What began as an         
exploration to further my understanding of black culture has resulted in me receiving this scholarship and 
Story continues on page 8Story continues on page 8CLOSING   A   MONTH   OF   CELEBRA TION
Written by Vincent Pham // Training & Development Manager
Photos By Siddharth AtreFEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 2, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
In 1997, Robert Pera was just one of 5,000 new freshmen 
trying to find their way around the seemingly massive 
UCSD campus. Just like any other student, he found the 
walk from Geisel Library to his dorm to be confusing and a 
little too long, and, just like the rest of his peers, he was full 
of ambition — driven to make a successful life for himself. 
Today, Pera finds himself at the pinnacle of his profession, 
a 36-year-old billionaire CEO of a successful technology 
company and the owner of a professional basketball team.
Pera’s path to success began in high school, where he 
owned and operated a small business that set up computer 
software in his hometown of Redwood City, California. At 
the time, computers were just starting to make their way 
into the mass market, and Pera knew his future lay some -
where in the burgeoning technology business. At UCSD, he 
had a very successful academic career, double majoring in 
electrical engineering and Japanese before going on to get 
his master’s degree in electrical engineering.
After graduation, he took a job as a hardware engineer 
for Apple. During his time there, he discovered a way that 
Apple could improve the range of its wireless signals. After 
his bosses ignored his discovery, Pera decided that he had 
the skill set to start his own company and take advantage 
of his idea, so he set up a makeshift computer lab in his San 
Jose apartment, working during the weekends on his pro -
totype for a more efficient Wi-Fi router. Once he felt he had 
created a useable product, he stepped down from his posi -
tion at Apple to devote his full effort to his new company.
His new business, which he branded Ubiquiti Network 
(based on the word “ubiquitous, ” meaning “everywhere”), 
sold radio cards to Internet service providers at around a 
160-percent markup, generating huge profits for Pera and 
his small staff. However, he knew the company would not 
be able to keep up its growth rate forever, as his idea could 
easily be replicated by another business with greater re -
sources, and he soon would be left without a market. Pera 
was forced to make a bold move: to expand rapidly and 
develop an all-encompassing wireless unit. The new prod -
uct, called NanoStation, was a huge success, grossing $50 
million in 2008.
But even with this new success, Pera wanted more, and, 
a year later, his company released yet another new product — AirMAX. The new router was even more successful than 
NanoStation had been, and all of a sudden, Ubiquiti was 
bringing in nine-figure revenue.
Today, the company is worth billions, with Pera himself 
(a 60-plus-percent owner) being valued between $1 billion 
to $2 billion. While its stock prices have fluctuated steeply 
and often, it has retained a good portion of its value the last 
few years.
Recently, Pera has shifted his efforts to a new               
business venture: owning the NBA ’s Memphis Grizzlies, the              
basketball team he purchased for $377 million in 2012 (the 
money was split among a group of minority owners, but 
Pera owns the majority share).
A lifelong basketball fan (Pera played on his high school 
team, but his career was cut short due to a rare heart condi -
tion), he jumped at the opportunity to purchase the team. 
When the NBA approved his purchase, the move was widely 
criticized. Many were worried about handing over the reins 
of a franchise to someone whose sole source of wealth was 
a technology company whose stock price, at the time, was 
on a sharp downturn. But, since then, Ubiquiti has righted 
itself in the market, though Pera has established himself as 
one of basketball’s most controversial owners.
Whereas most owners are older business tycoons, the 
relatively young Pera has brought a new perspective. Known 
for making appearances at team practices and playing in 
several recreational basketball leagues in his free time, he 
publicly challenged retired NBA legend and now-Charlotte 
Hornets owner Michael Jordan to a game of one-on-one, 
with the loser donating $1 million to charity. Jordan de -
clined the matchup, but the incident was symbolic of the 
aggressive approach Pera has taken to his new role.
While Pera isn’t as well-known to students on campus 
as recent alumni like GoPro CEO Nick Woodman, he did 
recently bring the Grizzlies to RIMAC Arena, where they 
held several days of practices as part of their preparation for 
the upcoming season.
Whether it’s finding a way to take Ubiquiti to the next 
level (they’re close to reaching the prestigious Fortune-500 
rankings) or leading the Grizzlies to an NBA championship, 
Pera is definitely an alumnus that the UCSD Guardian will 
be keeping its eyes on over the next few years.
Com-Pera-tive  
Advantage Billionaire 
UCSD Grad Engineers 
His Own Success Story
UCSD Alumni Robert PeraWritten by Sam Shapiro // Staff Writer
 Illustration by Alice Hsieh8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 2, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEA TURES
I am truly grateful. Thank 
you all for being part of this 
journey, as I continue to 
learn about black history, 
my history, our history. ”
To rounds of applause, 
the scholarship winners left 
the stage for Esposito. Well 
known for his roles as Gus 
Fring in “Breaking Bad” 
and currently Tom Neville 
in “Revolution, ” Esposito 
has bypassed what made 
him famous to find what 
makes us all connected.
“What is the only thing 
that really matters and 
brings us through? It’s love, ” 
said Esposito. “We can see 
it in each other’s eyes. We 
can feel it in each other’s 
words and feel it emanat -
ing through our hearts. But 
love is action. It allows us 
to move forward with our 
humanity in acknowledg -
ing that we are one with the 
world and ourselves. ”
The scholarship, Esposi -
to acknowledged, repre -
sents the sacrifice of one’s 
desire in life because it is 
giving up one’s wants for a 
greater good. Inspiration 
is created thereafter and 
changing people’s lives is 
the end result. 
Esposito brought a holis -
tic take on giving and inter -
connectivity to the scholar -
ship and the brunch and 
what he said encompasses 
his larger work of unofficial 
“Giancarloisms. ”
“It is less about an end, 
the means to an end, the 
end to a story and more about the journey, ” said 
Esposito.  “If you’re pres -
ent, that’s what your life 
becomes. It becomes a 
sharing. It becomes a give 
and take relationship with 
the universe around you, 
and it becomes a listening. 
Listening to others’ sto -
ries, allowing them to hear 
yours, coming from your 
heart, at all times. ”
The spirituality that Es -
posito embodied resonated 
throughout the room, and 
he continuously brought 
his keynote speech back 
to how people’s actions 
not only affect themselves, 
but everyone as a whole. 
Black History Month takes 
all of the inspired young 
students, all of the campus 
organizers and participants 
and connects them along a 
common vein.
“We are 90 percent wa -
ter, ” said Esposito. “We are 
electrical beings who have 
a spark. And our spark ig -
nites other people’s sparks. 
And the spark of what 
we know and what we’ve 
learned and what we’re 
prepared to give and share 
to all the young students in 
the room and to each other 
… everything [we] need to 
know is inside of [us]. ”
It is this spark that 
Esposito carried into the 
room, electrifying the 
audience and reminding 
us all that Black History 
Month need not end 28 
days later, but should be 
carried in all of us and 
passed on to others.
New Y ear, 
New Goals! 
Start Y our Graduate 
Degree at APU.  
16176
Find your program today!  
apu.edu/programs
Choose from:
Business and Leadership  
MBA, Management, Leadership, Accounting
Health Care  
Athletic Training, Physical Therapy, Nursing
Education  
Educational Leadership, School Counseling and School Psychology, 
Teacher Education, Higher Education
Helping Professions  
MFT, Psychology, Social WorkJoin the 
4,200+ graduate students  
currently advancing 
their education  
at APU.
Azusa  |  High Desert  |  Inland Empire  |  Los Angeles 
Murrieta  |  Orange County  |  San Diego  |  OnlineOccupations that require a master’s degree are projected to grow the 
fastest over the next eight years, making graduate school a worthwhile investment as you prepare to impact your field. Start planning now and further your career goals with a graduate degree from Azusa 
Pacific University, one of the nation’s top Christian universities.Finding the Thread That Links Us All
▶ from page 6
SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 2, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
Cal State Monterey Bay re -
sponded immediately in the bottom 
of the fifth inning. After a single 
up the middle by Otter pitcher Cori 
Reinhardt, Duarte walked two more 
batters to load up the bases. A single 
by center-fielder Anneliese Lopez 
then sent Reinhardt to home plate. 
With two outs on the board, Otter 
first-baseman Madison Casto scored 
off an error by Phillips, bringing the 
score to 3–1 in favor of Cal State 
Monterey Bay.
In the sixth inning, UCSD at -
tempted to mount a comeback. Junior 
center-fielder Taylor Abeyta got the 
ball rolling for the Tritons, making it 
to first base on a walk. A single up the 
middle by Sklencar sent Abeyta run -ning for home plate, notching up run 
number two for the big blue.
However, the effort wasn’t enough 
to catch up with the Otters, as the 
Tritons failed to plate another run, 
falling 3–2 in game one. 
“Unfortunately, we just walked 
too many people in that first game,” 
UCSD head coach Patti Gerckens 
told the UCSD Guardian. “We did 
hold our own, though, and it showed 
us what we were capable of doing.”
UCSD returned to the field in 
game two with a renewed energy 
— junior left-handed pitcher Alexis 
Edwards had a good start and kept the 
Otters quiet for two innings, shutting 
down six out of seven batters. The 
Triton offense came alive in the third 
inning when junior second-baseman 
McKenna Clewett’s two-run homer over the fence in left center put them 
up by two.
“I knew the ball was going out 
the second it hit the bat, and that’s the 
best feeling in the world,” Clewett 
said.
The Otters were unwilling to cede 
the game yet, however, and countered 
by shutting down the next three bat -
ters in the UCSD lineup. Then, in the 
bottom of the fourth, Cal State Mon -
terey Bay leveled the score at 2–2 and 
looked to overtake the Tritons.
UCSD stood strong and secured 
the win in the sixth inning when a 
passed ball allowed freshman right-
fielder Kelsi Maday to score the third 
run for the Tritons. A single to left 
field from sophomore pinch-hitter 
Bianca Devoto brought Baker home 
and ended the game on a satisfying 4–2 victory.
UCSD returned to Otter Sports 
Complex on Sunday after a bout of 
inclement weather postponed Satur -
day’s doubleheader. 
“We were disappointed when the 
games on Saturday got postponed,” 
Clewett said. “It did give us an extra 
day to mentally prepare ourselves 
though which was good.”
Despite having an extra day to re -
cover, the Tritons suffered a crippling 
7–1 loss in game one on Sunday. The 
Otters shut down the UCSD offense 
for five straight innings, while taking 
the lead in the bottom of the fourth 
inning with a two-run homer. Cal 
State Monterey Bay then recorded 
four more runs in the fifth and one 
final run in the sixth.
The Tritons attempted to counter in the top of the sixth with a run, but 
the Otters had little trouble putting 
away their second win. 
The Otters clinched the series 
win in the final game with a crushing 
8–0 shutout. Cal State Monterey Bay 
gave up only two hits for the duration 
of the game, while building up an 
unbreakable lead. Two runs apiece 
in the third and fourth inning put the 
home side up by four, and four more 
in the sixth ended the game on an 
eight-run mercy rule. 
The Tritons will return home this 
Friday and Saturday to play CCAA 
opponent Sonoma State and look 
to bounce back from the weekend’s 
losses. 
field. Sophomore forward Adam Klie 
continued his stellar play, scoring 17 
points and grabbing eight rebounds. 
Junior forward Zach McMillan had 
his best game of the year, finishing 
with 11 points and nine rebounds. 
Both teams shot exceptionally 
well, especially in the second half, 
draining over 60 percent of their shots. 
However, the Tritons were limited in 
three-point shooting, making four out 
of the only eight attempts.
“I’m really proud of the way we 
played tonight,” UCSD head coach 
Eric Olen told the UCSD Athletics 
Department. “It’s disappointing not 
to pull it out, but to be in position to 
win on the road shows the toughness 
of this team. Our group never wavers 
in its belief in each other and that is 
going to serve us well the rest of the 
way.”Despite the loss, the Tritons were 
able to regroup and finish their season 
on a high note Saturday night by 
defeating Cal State San Bernardino to 
complete the season sweep. 
The lead reached as high as 17 
in the first half in which UCSD held 
the Coyotes to only 24 percent from 
the field. At intermission, the Tritons 
led 36–23. Cal State San Bernardino 
fought back in the second half and 
came within six points of the lead with 
26 seconds remaining, but ultimately 
could not overcome the deficit. The 
Tritons outscored the Coyotes 26–14 
in the paint and 35–5 in bench points 
en route to their victory. 
Three Tritons finished with double 
digit scoring. Klie and Jackson shared 
stat lines, both scoring 13 points and 
four rebounds. Walker was just shy of 
a double-double with 10 points and 
nine rebounds.
“It’s great to finish the regular sea -son with a win,” Olen said. “We were 
able to withstand quite a bit of foul 
trouble, and we had solid production 
from our bench.”
With the regular season now in 
the rearview mirror, the Tritons will 
prepare for their first CCAA playoff 
matchup next week against fourth 
place Cal State Stanislaus (14–8). The 
Tritons were swept by the Warriors 
in their two regular season matchups, 
losing by five points at home and suf -
fering a heart-breaking 66–67 loss in 
a double-overtime thriller on the road. 
However, if this surprise of a season is 
indicative of anything, UCSD is fully 
prepared to upend predictions and 
make a run for the crown. 
“We are playing well at the right 
time and are excited about the op -
portunity to compete in the CCAA 
Tournament,” Olen said. 
YOU’RE INVITED TO THE 
OFF-CAMPUS
HOUSING MEET & 
GREET MIXER!
THURSDAY  
MARCH 5 • 10AM – 2PM 
GREAT HALL (ERC)
Don’t miss this FREE  one-day event.  
Stop by for refreshments, gather info, 
meet potential roommates and representatives of several La Jolla apartment communities—all at once!NEED OFF-CAMPUS 
HOUSING?man guard] Taylor [Tanita] and 
Dana, as well as [junior center] Emily 
Morris, ” VanDerveer said. “We are 
not a one-player’s team, although Far -
rah is having a fantastic season. Dana 
Webster gives us a very good low-post 
solution and had a great game today. ”
Webster had 17 points, while 
Taylor Tanita had 13 points and made 
three of her four attempts from down -
town. Mounier again scored in double 
figures and had 12 points. Shokoor 
had another dominant game as she 
grabbed a game-high 15 rebounds.
With the two wins over t he 
weekend, UCSD finishes the regular 
season as the fourth-best team in the 
conference and will play Cal State San 
Bernardino again in the first round of 
the CCAA Championship Tourna -
ment. If the Tritons are to win, they 
will face first-seed Cal State Domin -guez Hills in the semifinal round.
In the other first-round matchup, 
Cal Poly Pomona (17–5) will face Cal 
State East Bay (13–9), while the top 
two seeds — Cal State Dominguez 
Hills (19–3) and Humboldt State 
(19–3) — get first-round byes.
UCSD looks to be a team to 
reckon with in this year’s tournament 
and clearly has the ability to defeat 
any team that stands in its way. Tip-
off for game one will be Thursday, 
March 5 at noon at Stockton Arena in 
Stockton. 
“In this tournament, I really think 
anyone can win it, ” VanDerveer said. 
“I think we beat all of the top teams 
this season, but also a team like East 
Bay played everyone really hard. So I 
really think anyone has a shot, so why 
not us?”UCSD to Take on CSU San BernardinoAfter Drop in Standings, Tritons Will Look to Rebound in Four Game Homestand Versus Sonoma State 
As the Fifth Seed, Men’s Basketball Is Set to Play CSU Stanislaus
▶ W. BASKETBALL , from page 12▶ SOFTBALL , from page 12
▶ M. BASKETBALL , from page 12readers can contact
  Ka tie   potts     kpotts@ucsd.edu 
readers can contact
  daniel  sung     d2sung@ucsd.edu readers can contact
 Marcus  thuillier     mthuilli@ucsd.edu 10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 23, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
CLASSIFIEDS$
Guar dian Classi/f_ieds ar e FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifieds
crossword
ACROSS
1 NBA stats
4 Meccan, e.g.
9 Silver fish
14 The Rams of the NCAA’s Atlantic 10 
Conf.
15 Popular place to go downhill
16 Something not done
17 Insect’s working hours?
19 Peace goddess
20 Tools with teeth
21 Where users meet
23 Composer Stravinsky
24 Seaman who saw it all?
28 __ Moines
29 Scout’s concern
30 Site of bedlam
31 One-named model on many romance 
novel covers
32 Attention-getting sounds
34 Split end?
38 Young Aussie hoppers
39 Plumbing outlet
40 911 response org.
41 Tiny African threat
43 Gal __
46 London museum’s hidden camera 
locations?
49 __ Alto
50 Must
51 Malice
52 Former #1 woman pool player Corr
53 Where two-wheelers aren’t allowed?
57 __ Corning, maker of Fiberglas
58 Gave in
59 Israeli weapon
60 Do figures, in a way
61 Doglike scavenger
62 Whole lotDOWN
1 Rotten
2 “M*A*S*H” system
3 Perverted types
4 Impudence
5 Burning issue?
6 News letters
7 Rapper Mos __
8 Back from a trip, say
9 Clown’s accessory
10 Sausalito’s county
11 Charles’s miser
12 Like the road in a classic ballad
13 __ the line
18 Flooey lead-in
22 Little louse
24 Bills for drinks
25 First Arabic letter
26 Ask for more
27 Scrubbing brand
29 Soviet news agency
31 Five-time Emmy winner Tina
32 End in __
33 Attila, notably
34 Western weapon
35 Interstate feature
36 Museo display
37 Fracture treatment
38 Air Force One, e.g.
41 Asian holiday
42 It’s often served with soda
43 End successfully
44 Former NBA star Mourning
45 Chinese menu offering
47 Olympics contest, e.g.
48 Horse __
49 Dispensable candy
51 Hindu sacred text
52 Decks in a ring
54 Light line
55 “__ been meaning to tell you ... ”
56 “Jeopardy!” great JenningsBIKES
6 Sp Ladies Beach Cruiser - $125. Nice ladies 
six speed bike. Everything on it is in very good 
working order. She’s ready to go. Listing ID: 
126041077 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
Girls Electra Beach Cruiser - $60. I have a 16” 
wheels girls bike. It comes with a bell. It is 
ready to ride. Listing ID: 126041076 at ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more information
2015 Giant Anthem X Full Susp L - $2200. 
Brand new frame w/ Sram XO drivetrain and 
Magura carbon brakes. New tires, shift cables. 
Listing ID: 126041075 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
ELECTRONICS
Canon Camera A1200 HD - $30. Selling a great 
camera for cheap! Listing ID: 126041120 at 
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
New (Sealed in Box) Beats by Dre Studio 
Wireless Headphones - $320. New, unopened, 
and sealed in its original box. Matte Black 
Finish. Listing ID: 126041117 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more informationSony Digital Camera - $80. Rarely used camera. 
Have all wires and charger to go with it and 
case. Listing ID: 126041118 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
FURNITURE
Pine Dining Room Set - $399. Table with cus -
tom pads; six chairs (2 arm chairs; four regular 
chairs). China hutch with lighting and 2 glass 
doors and shelves. Listing ID: 126041129 at 
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
Ott Lite Desk Lamps Pair 13W - Ott Lite adjust -
able 13W desk lamps stand 14” tall. (2); these 
are fairly new, rarely used. Price $15 each or 
$25 for pair. Listing ID: 126041127 at ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more information
La-Z-Boy Leather Recliner - $50. Navy blue 
leather La-Z-Boy recliner for sale! Has some 
normal wear and tear, but is a great and 
comfortable chair. Came with me in a U-Haul 
from the Midwest. The back separates from 
the swivel base for easier moving. I’ll even 
toss in a bottle of leather cleaner. Listing ID: 
126041124 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
t
your visio n,
our missio n.
outfitters@ucsd.eduCreate custom a pparel to 
promote your student 
organiza tion with Triton 
Outfitter's new Made TO Order program!
LECTURENOTES
IS HIRING
NOTETAKERS
FOR SPRING ‘ 15
(STARTING 6th WEEK!)
Pick up an applicati on at
Lectu re Not es in the
Student Center
Must have 3.0 or bet ter
Applic ation & SAM PLE NO TES
 are du e Wed of fi nals week
as-lecture-notes@ucsd.eduwww.ucsdguardian.org/advertising
.com/ucsdguardian
CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 2, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
KRIS BOWERS
THE LOFT, PRICE CENTER EASTWED, MAR 04 • 8pmTahrirCAMPUS
CALENDAR
MAR 2 - MAR 82015 POWERED BY THE CHANCELLOR’S OFFICE AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guar dian
Calendar
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar @
ucsdgu ardian .orgMON3.02 WED3.04 TUE3.03
4pm
SUN GOD FESTIVAL OPEN FORUMS - PC WEST, 
GREEN TABLE RM
Want to learn about the changes surrounding Sun God 
Festival this year? Curious to learn more about the Sun God planning process? Have any suggestions for increasing health and safety education? The Festivals 
team needs your help with how we can help enhance 
YOUR experience!
5:30pm
U.S.-CHINA ECONOMIC RELATIONSHIP: 
OPPORTUNITIES AND PROSPECTS - THE GREAT 
HALL AT I-HOUSE
The third annual Robert F. Ellsworth Memorial Lecture 
will feature a discussion of United States-China relations with Robert D. Hormats, currently the vice chair of Kissinger Associates Inc. and former Under 
Secretary of State for Economic, Energy and 
Environmental Affairs.
6pm
DEAD//LINES SOLO WORKS BY RICARDO ALES - 
ADAM D. KAMIL GALLERY, MANDEVILLE
The peer educators of the Center for Student 
Involvement- Communications and Leadership are 
going to host this "Interpersonal Games" event to help 
you sharpen your interpersonal skills!11am
ART AND SOUL: DIY STAINED GLASS CANDLE 
HOLDER - THE ZONE
Join the Zone to create your very own stained glass 
candle holder! Workshops are free; all supplies and materials are provided. 
12pm
JUSTICECORPS INFORMATIONAL SESSION - PC 
WEST, GREEN TABLE RM
Come on out to the Justicecorp's information 
session to hear from current members about the program, and to learn more about the application 
process.
6pm
SPRING BREAK: SURF, SAND AND SAFETY - 
ORIGINAL STUDENT CENTER, DOLORES 
HUERTA VERA CRUZ RM
Join us to learn how San Diego has fun during 
Spring Break! Enjoy interactive presentations from 
Outback Adventures, Student Health Services, 
CARE/SARC, and a special guest about how to live 
life to the fullest while being safe. Enjoy games with PRIZES and a raffle with a grand prize from Outback Adventures. Includes a special Sun God sneak peek!
8pm
ARTPOWER! PRESENTS: KRIS BOWERS - THE 
LOFT
Winner of the 2011 Thelonius Monk International 
Jazz Competition, pianist Kris Bowers is one of the newest and brightest lights on the jazz landscape. Schooled in jazz and classical music, raised amid 
the rap and hip-hop of the 1990's, and inspired by 
the cinematic power of the great film composers of recent decades, Bowers sound though rooted in traditional styles is open to numerous influences that keep the music fresh and vibrant for a new century." FRI3.06
1:15pm
INTERNATIONAL WOMEN’S DAY - PRICE CENTER 
WEST, BALLROOM A
Student Spoken Word: Alyssa Langworthy  Featured 
Speakers: "Social and Economic Empowerment to Improve Sexual and Reproductive Health among High-Risk Women and Girls" by Dr. Lianne Urada and 
Dr. Elizabeth Reed
3pm
ASCE PRESENTS: BEAR GARDEN - MATTHEWS 
QUAD
Rock out with the Bearing Stones!11am
I’M GRADUATING, NOW WHAT? - CAREER SERVICES, HORIZON RM
Join us for a discussion about life post graduation and 
graduate school preparation.
3:30pm
CROSSING LINES: HIP-HOP , CULTURE, AND 
BLACKNESS - CROSS-CULTURAL CENTER, 
COMUNIDAD RM
Crossing Lines: Hip-Hop, Culture, and Blackness is a 
lively panel discussion with Martin Boston, and Dr.s Fatima El-Tayeh, Gabriel Mendes and Jillian Hernandez. There will also be a Q&A period after. 
5pm
SPRING INTO YOUR CAREER - PC WEST, RED 
SHOE RM
In this seminar you will learn own how to find your 
perfect career, create an awesome resume, and ace that interview so that you will be prepared for job hunting season. There will also be free food ready for 
you, and all participants will receive an iLead stamp!
7pm
INTERVARSITY’S LA FE - RAZA’S RESOURCE 
CENTRO
Join us on Tuesday nights for free dinner, great 
conversation, and discussions about faith, justice, and activism at UCSD!
SAT3.07
9pm
ASCE PRESENTS: INTERSTELLAR - SUN GOD 
LAWN
This event is free for all UCSD undergrads, and will 
take place out under the stars on Sun God Lawn. Come see this beautiful Oscar-winning futuristic film before the DVD release! THU3.05
3pm
PASSPORT TO CULTURE: INDIA - I-HOUSE 
LOUNGES, CUZCO
Learn about life and culture in other countries and 
states from current international and out-of-state students. Enjoy a traditional taste of food from the highlighted region each week!  All students are 
welcome! This event is great for students interested in 
studying abroad.
5:30pm
WOMEN OF THE WORLD PANEL - 
INTERNATIONAL CENTER LOUNGE
In honor of International Women's Day, the Outreach 
Coordinators are hosting a "Women of the World" panel 
event to highlight the differences of women in cultures 
represented on our UCSD campus.
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
BRANDON  YU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 2, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
UCSD is on a roll. As the Triton women ended the regular season, they extended 
their winning streak to seven games with a pair of impressive wins over the past 
week. The Tritons decisively handed No.15 nationally ranked Humboldt State 
(23–4, 19–4 in California Collegiate Athletic Association) their first home loss 
of the season on Thursday with a 78–63 win before edging out Cal State San 
Bernardino (18–8, 14–8) 64–61 on Saturday night.
UCSD ends the regular season 18–9 overall and 16–6 in league play, and will enter the 
postseason with confidence as the fourth seed in the CCAA tournament.
On Thursday night, the Tritons jumped to an early 7–2 lead, before Humboldt State 
tied the game up at 15. After the Lumberjacks went up 25–18, UCSD charged for a 16–7 
run to close the half. Two baskets by junior forward Farrah Shokoor and two jumpers 
from senior center Dana Webster and senior guard Miranda Seto helped the Tritons take 
a 34–32 lead going into halftime.
With four minutes gone in the second half, Humboldt State tied the score up at 40. 
However, UCSD put up another big 17–7 run to go up by 10. With four minutes remain -
ing, Humboldt State closed in on the Tritons and only trailed by five points. The Lumber -
jacks decided to start fouling the Tritons and stop the clock, but UCSD came up clutch 
and made 14 consecutive free throws to close out a 78–63 victory over the top team in the 
conference.
“We came out and had a very good game, ” UCSD head coach Heidi VanDerveer said. 
“Playing teams for the second time, we can prepare and figure out offensive and defensive 
schemes so I think we were really well-prepared. We especially played great defense and 
that helped us get this big win. ”
UCSD gained a 40–32 advantage on the board, shot 45.8 percent (22-48) from the 
field and limited Humboldt State to 34.4 percent (22-64) shooting.
Shokoor had her way and recorded her 14th double-double of the season with an 
impressive stat line of 20 points, 16 rebounds and four blocks. Webster and sophomore 
guard Beth Mounier each had 12 points off the bench.
After a day off, the Tritons faced and defeated Cal State San Bernardino in a very com -
petitive game. The first half opened with a tail of runs: UCSD had a 10–0 streak and Cal 
State San Bernardino mustered a 8–2 run of their own. The two teams would then trade 
baskets until a three-point play gave Cal State San Bernardino a 34–31 edge at halftime.
After halftime, Cal State San Bernardino put the pressure on the Tritons to grab a 
51–46 lead. Seto and Webster would get the lead back on a 6–0 run with 8:43 left to play. 
The contest remained tight until the end, when Cal State San Bernardino cut the 
UCSD 62–61 lead to one with 1:29 left. Webster came up big on the next possession and 
hit a jumper that put the game away for UCSD. 
“ Again, we have a very deep bench and we got great contribution by [redshirt fresh -
The UCSD men’s basketball team 
wrapped up its regular season this past 
week with a pair of away games, fall -
ing short in an 81–80 overtime loss to 
Humboldt State (15–7) on Thursday 
night but gaining back some momen -
tum for the postseason with a 71–62 
victory over Cal State San Bernardino 
(12–10) in their season finale.  
The Tritons finish with a 16–10 
record overall and 14–8 mark in Cali -
fornia Collegiate Athletic Association 
play and will enter the postseason 
tournament with high hopes as the 
fifth seed. 
Despite a career best effort from 
junior guard Hunter Walker and a 
strong comeback effort in the second 
half, the Tritons could not pull off a 
victory against Humboldt State on 
Thursday night. The game had playoff 
implications for both sides as the two 
teams were tied for the third seed in 
the CCAA going into the contest.
UCSD was down by as many as 
12 points halfway through the second 
but climbed its way back up to amaz -
ingly take a two-point lead with only 
32 seconds remaining in the game. 
Humboldt State answered right back with a jumper from Calvin Young II 
to tie the game at 71, forcing the game 
into overtime.   
Walker continued his strong show -
ing in overtime when he scored the 
first basket. Sophomore guard Aleks 
Lipovic made a three-pointer with 
33 seconds remaining and pushed 
the lead to 78–74. Humboldt State 
answered right back with a three of 
their own and a pair of missed free throws by UCSD allowed Humboldt 
State to take the lead. Freshman guard 
Grant Jackson made a layup to put the 
Tritons back on top by one with only 
seven seconds on the clock, but Hum -
boldt made two crucial free throws 
that tilted the game back in their favor. 
Walker finished with a career-high 
25 points on 11–16 shooting from the In their second road series of the 
season, the UCSD softball team (15–
5) headed up to Otter Sports Complex 
in Seaside, California, where the Tri -
tons were overwhelmed against No. 3 
nationally ranked Cal State Monterey 
Bay. UCSD managed to come away 
with one victory in game two but fell 
in the other three contests to one of 
the country’s top squads.
The Tritons’ record is now 15–5 
overall and 8–4 in league play, drop -
ping them to fourth in California Col -
legiate Athletic Association standings.
In the series opener, UCSD’s  junior right-handed pitcher Hannah 
Duarte walked four consecutive bat -
ters in the first inning for Cal State 
Monterey Bay’s first run of the game. 
The Otters held onto this lead for four 
innings, retiring 11 straight batters 
before Triton freshman outfielder 
Emily Sklencar broke the streak in 
the fifth inning with a single down to 
third base. 
A drive to right field by fresh -
man third-baseman Rachel Phillips 
then pushed freshman outfielder 
Kendall Baker, who was pinch run -
ning for Sklencar, home to even the           
score at one.MEN'S  BASKETBALL
Tritons Split Conference Road Matchups 
UCSD loses to Humboldt State in overtime on Thursday, comes back to beat Cal 
State San Bernardino on Saturday and grab the fifth seed in the CCAA tournament. 
B Y daniel sung
Senior Staff writer
SOFTBALL
Overwhelmed in Seaside
Softball steals a game on the road against No.3 Cal 
State Monterey Bay, but lose three out of four contests.
B Y  Ka tie potts
COntributing writer Tritons look to take momentum 
into the playoffs after last week’s big wins.Seventh Straight
BY MARCUS THUILLIER EDITORIAL ASSISTANT // PHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE
PHOTO BY ALWIN SZETO / GUARDIAN FILEPHOTO BY JESUS PACHECO / GUARDIAN FILEW. Tennis
M. Volleyball
M. Tennis
W. Basketball
M. Basketball     3/4
     3/4
     3/5
     3/5
     3/5VS Villanova
AT USC
VS Villanova
AT CCAA Tournament
AT CCAA TournamentUPCOMING
UCSD
GAMES
See W. BASKETBALL , page 11
See SOFTBALL , page 11 See M. BASKETBALL , page 11