VOLUME 49, ISSUE 9   THURSDA Y , OCTOBER 22, 2015  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
TIP OF THE 
SPIELBERG
THE GUARDIAN SPEAKS 
WITH RENOWNED DIRECTOR 
STEPHEN SPIELBERG ABOUT 
REVISITING HISTORY IN HIS 
LATEST BLOCKBUSTER, THE 
HIGHLY ANTICIPATED “BRIDGE 
OF SPIES.”
TOT AL   FRA T   MOVE 
WIN  FOR  W.  SOCCERdo  gentlemen  love  breasts?
TRITONS   now   fifth   in   ccaaopinion,  P age   4
sports,  P age  12
THURSDAY
H 75 L 63FRIDAY
H 79 L 63
SATURDAY
H 82 L 64SUNDAY
H 81 L 66
FORECAST
VERBATIM
THE MAIN REASON FOR THIS 
COMES FROM THE FACT THAT 
IN A CAPITALIST, WASTEFUL 
ECONOMY, THE U.S. REMAINS 
A TOP CHAMPION FOR 
EXCESSIVELY CONSUMING 
FOSSIL FUELS.”
- MARCUS THUILLIER 
& AYAT AMIN
AROUND THE GLOBE
OPINION , PAGE 4
INSIDE
UNIVERSAL CHARGER  .....2
UNCHARTED TEACHING  ...4
CHRISTIAN LIFESTYLE  .....7
CLASSIFIEDS  ................ 10
W. VOLLEYBALL  ............ 12“WEEKEND,  P AGE  6
PHOTO COURTESY OF THINGLINK.COM
UC President Janet Napolitano 
is assembling a committee 
responsible for reevaluating how 
sexual assault and harassment 
cases involving faculty are handled. 
The announcement was made in 
the wake of UC Berkeley Professor 
Geoff Marcy’s resignation in a 
letter addressed to the University of 
California regents and chancellors 
on Oct. 15. 
Although the President’s 
Task Force on Preventing and 
Responding to Sexual Violence & 
Sexual Assault planned to address 
policies involving faculty as part 
of its mission to improve how 
sexual assault cases are handled and 
reported, complaints against Marcy prompted immediate action. 
“The recent internal investigation 
that substantiated charges against 
a tenured Berkeley faculty member 
for repeatedly sexually harassing 
students has highlighted the urgent 
need to review University policies 
that may have inadvertently made 
the investigation and resolution of 
this case more difficult, ” Napolitano 
said in the letter.
A.S. Vice President of External 
Affairs and co-director of the 
UConsent campaign Krystl Fabella 
however stated that the new 
committee is a reflection of how the 
University fails to prioritize students.  
“Not surprisingly, it is this 
incident, the public pressure and 
clearly the negative light University 
officials have been put under [that 
have caused] them to consider how UC faculty members figure in 
campus sexual assault cases, ” Fabella 
told the UCSD Guardian. “When 
Berkeley announced it would be 
imposing ‘real consequences’ on 
professors, those consequences 
were but a warning when it should 
be an even-more-serious sanction 
knowing that faculty members are 
in places of power over students. To 
any student, it emphasizes University 
officials’ priority of prestige of the 
institution over protection over its 
students. ”
The joint committee will 
determine whether the current 
policies concerning faculty need 
to be changed by assessing all 
aspects of the grievance process. 
In particular, they will focus on UCSD Releases Official  
Diversity Statistics Online
The Office for Equity, Diversity and Inclusion released 
interactive dashboards detailing demographic data 
about UCSD’s student and staff population on Oct. 
15 to increase its transparency to the public.
These online dashboards use categories such as gender, 
ethnicity, appointment and major to organize current 
information on UCSD academic personnel, staff and 
students. Vice Chancellor for Equity, Diversity and Inclusion 
Becky Petitt told the UCSD Guardian that diversity can 
improve student education.
“Transparency is of key importance to the Chancellor, 
Executive Vice Chancellor and the EDI office, ” Petitt said. 
“Because students are here to pursue education, it’s our job 
to make sure they can do that in a diverse environment. 
Research suggests that a teaching and learning environment 
— including students’ educational experience — is enriched 
the more diverse it is. ”
She explained that these statistics did not only benefit 
the administrators, but UCSD students as well. 
“I really see administrators as the primary users of 
the data, but at the end of the day, students are the primary beneficiaries, ” Petitt said. “The goal is that they 
can have diverse classmates, diverse faculty and diverse 
administrators in a really robust and energetic learning 
community. ”
Sixth College senior Majdi Tashman explained that 
the data reinforced what he already felt was true about the 
university’s diversity.
“Before these statistics were released, I saw UCSD as a 
place where all races and all types of people are accepted 
with open arms, ” Tashman expressed to the Guardian. 
“ As an Arab-American, I have been racially profiled and 
marginalized many times, but at UCSD I have never felt that 
way and that is why I’m proud to be a Triton. With these 
statistics, they only solidify how I feel and how many others 
feel about this racially-diverse university. ”
The Vice Chancellor also detailed that understanding 
the statistics is particularly important for UCSD and the 
general public.
“This data will be used to share UCSD’s progress in 
creating an inclusive campus, and share awareness about 
our efforts, ” Petitt stated. “The other utility of the tool is   B Y  SIMON  YU   STAFF WRITERMan Accuses 
SD Sheriff’s 
Department 
of BrutalitySAN DIEGO
Jovan Jimenez is seeking $10 
million in a lawsuit which 
alleges that a deputy choked 
and slammed him into a wall.
BY   J o s h   L e f l e r
Staff Writer
See SHERIFF , page 3A man from Riverside filed a 
$10 million lawsuit against the San 
Diego County Sheriff’s Department 
last week, claiming he was beaten 
unconscious by a deputy after an 
altercation at the Harrah’s Resort and 
Casino in Valley View Center.
The incident that prompted the 
lawsuit occurred on July 12 when the 
man, Jovan Jimenez, got involved in 
a disagreement with another resort 
guest. According to a press release 
from his attorney Jerry Steering, 
Jimenez was arrested for simple 
battery, and then made an unknown 
remark to the deputy.
“Mr. Jimenez made a rude comment 
to one of the arresting deputies that 
resulted in a handcuffed Jovan Jimenez 
being grabbed by his throat, slammed 
into the hallway wall…and struck on 
top of his head with an aluminum 
police flashlight, ” Steering said. “Mr. 
Jimenez was knocked unconscious and 
suffered a serious head injury. ”
According to Steering, this case 
is one of many in recent years, 
highlighting the police force’s 
continuous abuse of power.
“This perversion of justice, by 
criminally prosecuting the victims of 
police abuse takes place in every county 
in California, everyday, ” Steering said 
in the press release. “This is routine. ”
In the same release statement, 
Steering cited California statute PC 
148(a)(1) as giving state authorities the 
power to retaliate against civilians such 
as Jimenez without worry of reprisal.
“They [intended to charge Jimenez] 
with the most abused criminal statute 
in California, ” Steering stated.
Section 148(a)(1) states that 
“every person who willfully resists, 
delays, or obstructs any public officer 
… in the discharge … [of] any duty 
… shall be punished by a fine … or 
by imprisonment. ”
However, Jimenez was not found 
to be in immediate violation of PC 
148(a)(1). Steering shared security 
footage that captured the entire 
incident with local news sources, 
claiming that the footage provided 
evidence that prevented a violation.
“[Jimenez] would have been 
charged with violation of Section 
148(a)(1), ” Steering said. “Luckily 
for him, it was recorded. ”
Deputy Jeffrey Cruz is the officer 
in question. The UCSD Guardian 
contacted the Sheriff ’s Department 
for comments regarding the 
incident, but officials declined to 
comment. County officials have a 
month to respond to the lawsuit.
Jimenez’s lawsuit comes after 
a spate of recent events that have 
been perceived as flagrant abuses 
of police authority by citizens and Napolitano Plans to Revise Sexual Assault Policy
 The UC President convened a committee to examine how claims against faculty are assessed.See DIVERSITY , page 3
See  ASSAULT , page 3EQUITY, DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION
UC SYSTEM
BY   T I N A  B U T O I U
MANAGING EDITOR
UCSD Athletic Director Earl Edwards cut the ribbon for the grand opening of the Alex G. Spanos Athletic Performance  
Center at UCSD’s North Campus.  Photo by Kenji Bennett /UCSD Guardian.harassment complaints made in 
previous years, such as those made 
against Marcy.
“I am asking the joint committee 
to review whether there are clear 
procedures and mechanisms for all 
members of the University community 
to report to campus authorities when 
they believe incidents of sexual assault, violence or harassment are taking 
place, ” Napolitano said in the letter. “It 
will also develop recommendations 
for interim measures that can be 
immediately put into place while the 
investigation of a claim is underway. ”
Students will be among the 
members of the joint committee, 
which includes Task Force lead Senior 
Vice President and Chief Compliance and Audit Officer Sheryl Vacca and 
Dan Hare, professor of entomology 
at UC Riverside and chair of the 
systemwide Academic Senate. 
However, Media Specialist Kate 
Moser told the Guardian that the 
process of selecting students to 
serve on the committee has not 
yet been established. Nonetheless, 
the committee is expected to give recommendations by Feb. 29, 2016.
According to Fabella, the 
procedural protections and three-
year statute of limitations for tenured 
employees affected how sexual 
assault and harassment complaints 
have been handled these past years. 
While Fabella agrees that the Task 2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 22, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
AVERAGE CAT By Christina Carlson
REGISTER ONLINE AT AS.UCSD.EDU/SAFERIDESRegistration for FALL QUARTER IS NOW OPEN!
A.S. Safe Rides allows registered undergraduate students 
to get 3 FREE rides per quarter. Students MUST
register at least 24 hours prior to their ﬁrst ride. A.S. SAFE RIDES 
@asucsdThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. Sherman said something kind of funny today but 
no one remembers. Did it really happen?
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Marketing Director
Laura Chow
Associate Marketing Director
Peter McInnis
Training and Development Manager
Cedric Hyon
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Vincent Pham
Rosina Garcia
Tina Butoiu
Kriti Sarin
Jacky To
Cassia Pollock 
Marcus Thuillier
Allison Kubo
Kyle Somers
Karly Nisson
Brittney Lu
Olga Golubkova
Jonathan Gao
Megan Lee
Joselynn Ordaz
Sherman Aline
Elyse Yang
Christina Carlson
Jennifer GrundmanEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
 
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
Associate Features Editor
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Sherman Aline, Allison Kubo
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim
Editorial Assistants
Sage Schubert Christian, Katie Potts, Christian Duarte
Committee Will Develop Interim Measures for Claims That Are Currently Being Processed
▶ ASSAULT,  from page 1Researchers in the electrical and 
computer engineering department 
recently developed wireless chargers 
that can simultaneously support 
multiple devices.  
Author of the project and Associate 
Director of Center for Wearable 
Sensors Patrick Mercier told the 
UCSD Guardian that what prompted 
the research was the incompatibility of 
different electronic devices. 
“In terms of the motivation, 
wireless charging is becoming more 
and more popular today, ” Mercier 
said. “Y ou can buy phones that feature 
this built in. But the problem is the 
market is fragmented in the sense 
that there are three different standards 
that are not necessarily compatible 
with one another. And so what we’ve 
wanted to do is build a charging 
station that can work with any of 
those three standards. ”
Mercier added that one of the main challenges of creating a device like the 
universal wireless charger is that one 
of the standards functions optimally 
at a significantly higher frequency of 
6.78 MHz compared to the 200 kHz at 
which the other two standards operate. 
To address this issue, Dr. Mercier 
and his team created a device with two 
coils: an inner and an outer one. The 
inner coil favorably supports two of 
the three standards at 200kHz, while 
the outer coil optimally supports the 
remaining standard at 6.78 MHz. Both 
coils lie in the same plane, thus allowing 
for a small rectangular-sized device, 
similar to a cell phone. According to 
a press release from the Jacobs School 
of Engineering, the charging platform 
is just enough to fit two smartphones 
side by side.
UCSD Institute of Electrical and 
Electronic Engineers President and 
Sixth College senior Ryan Collins 
described the device as having “some 
tricky circuitry” and being “almost 
like an adapter. ” He also compared 
the impact of the universal wireless charger to the USB. 
“With different standards, 
you kind of have to buy different 
standards or adapters, ” Collins told the 
Guardian. “That’s why the USB was so 
successful. It kind of encompassed all 
these different plugs and put it all into 
one device. ”
This device can potentially save a 
“standard war, ” such as previous ones 
with VHS, HD and DVD. According 
to Mercier, the technology aims to 
eliminate these differences. 
“Ultimately, the market is 
fragmented until there’s a clear winner 
that becomes identified, ” Mercier said. 
“In some cases, a winner is never 
identified, and we get huge market 
fragmentations. That’s not good for 
consumers. What we’re trying to do 
with the research is develop a solution 
in which it doesn’t matter which one 
wins. We can still work with any of 
[the standards]. ”
Not only do the chargers operate 
at each frequency, but they also have 
high-power efficiency transfer. To finalize the project, the researchers 
plan to integrate digital protocols.
Beyond the design, Dr. Mercier 
and his colleagues have filed for a 
patent regarding the idea of enabling 
the high efficiency universal wireless 
chargers. They are also currently 
speaking with a number of companies 
for licensing opportunities and 
potential plans to create a startup to 
construct this technology.
Collins noted that the universal 
wireless chargers demonstrate the 
underappreciated strength of UCSD’s 
research and development. 
“[UCSD is] a great, well-respected 
school, ” Collins said. “However, it’s not 
the most publicly recognized school. 
It’s kind of like we’re underdogs. We 
know we’re good, but it’s like we have 
to prove ourselves to get any sort of 
recognition for our great discoveries in 
research and technology — I feel very 
proud of that. ”Researchers Develop Universally Compatible Wireless Charger
The platform uses a two-coil system to ensure that devices with different frequencies can be charged at the same time.
BY   J u l i e  Y i p
Contributing Writer 
Julie yip jlyip@ucsd.edureaders can contactSCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
See  ASSAULT , page 3Force has developed effective 
policies, she expects the committee’s 
recommendations will be delayed 
like other sexual assault initiatives.
“The UCOP Sexual Violence 
and Sexual Assault Task Force 
Committee created last year has 
been successful in articulating 
policy and recommendations, but 
has been delayed by more than 
a year in implementing them, 
specifically the more ‘controversial’ 
initiatives such as a d j u d i c a t i o n 
improvements,” Fabella said. 
“Comparing it to this, I foresee 
the same year-long process for 
formalizing this policy. ”
Office for the Prevention of 
Harassment and Discrimination 
Director and Title IX Lori 
Chamberlain explained to the 
Guardian that it is too early to tell 
if current practices or policies will 
necessitate changes, since President 
Napolitano is still in the process of forming the committee. In addition, 
Chamberlain stated that less than 25 
percent of total sexual harassment 
and misconduct cases are against 
academic appointments, include 
faculty and teaching assistants; 
cases against students constitute 
approximately 35 percent of the 
total complaints.
Although the University’s 
response was far from timely, 
Fabella applauds the response to Marcy’s resignation from 
non-administrative officials.
“We hear about universities 
sweeping sexual harassment 
cases under the rug, giving light 
sanctions to students who have 
committed the violations, but 
there was institutional protection 
in place for the professor about 
whom they had been receiving 
complaints since 2001, and [the 
university] looked the other way for almost 14 years, ” Fabella said. “I am 
extremely thankful and encouraged 
by the reaction of the astronomy 
professors, doctorates and students 
for having the integrity to do the 
right thing and condemning both 
the professor and the university’s 
actions and standing in solidarity 
for those who were victims. ”NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 22, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
WEEK FOUR
Saturday , october 24  •  9pm  •  WARREN MALL
We’re gearing up for Halloween at UCSD - country-style! 
Come brave through a spooky haunted trail through the 
woods, dance the night away with a live DJ with 
step-by-step line dance lessons throughout the night, 
enjoy carnival games and inflatable obstacles, and snack 
on some free, late-night BBQ.
FRIDAY , october 23  •  8pm  •  WARREN MALLTriton Fest Rockstar Night is here to satisfy all your 
music and entertainment needs. Learn the latest dance 
moves with a professional choreographer, karaoke with 
a live band, or take part in a lip sync/air guitar 
performance! Bring food for the Colleges Rock Hunger 
drive and receive special prizes!
FACEBOOK.COM/UCSDTRITONFEST
ROCK STAR
NIGHT
HAUNTED
HOEDOWNFINAL WEEKEND!UCSD Ranked 11th Most Diverse College in the United States
Activist Group Traced Anonymous Hate Mail to Sheriff’s Officethat it not only shows our trends, but 
it shows our current status and gives a 
glimpse at what our future would look 
like if we did nothing. 
A website about United States 
higher education, called Best College 
Reviews, ranked UCSD the 11th 
most ethnically diverse college in 
America earlier this month. The 
metric used was based on four 
criteria: no race may have more than 
45 percent representation, at least 
three races are represented by over 12 
percent, the number of scholarships, 
clubs, organizations and associations 
available for ethnic groups and the percentage of total minorities 
that graduated in 2012-13. Petitt 
commented that the Office for EDI 
was pleased by the acknowledgment, 
but that there was still progress to 
be made. 
In addition, Petit explained to that 
awareness of what the data entails 
is key in their decision making and 
clarifying misconceptions.
“We have to be strategic; we have 
to know where our pressure points are 
and where the opportunity lies, ” Petitt 
said. “The data we collect can also be 
used to clear any misconceptions that 
people might have. For example, Asian 
and Pacific Islander students, often 
unified as ‘ Asians, ’ are in fact very heterogeneous, and understanding 
this diversity in a more nuanced way 
is important. ”
Petitt also described her plan to 
ultimately put forth a campuswide 
diversity initiative in conjunction with 
their Strategic Plan.
“One of my longer term goals is 
an institution-wide diversity plan that 
is grounded in and based on data to 
align our diversity outcomes with our 
Strategic Plan, ” Petitt said. “Diversity 
not just in presence, but also diversity 
in curriculum, in access, in our staff 
and faculty. ”▶ DIVERSITY ,  from page 1
activist groups.
Last week, a 43-year-old woman 
filed a lawsuit against two officers she 
claimed used excessive force against 
her in 2013. The event, which was 
also caught on camera, showed one 
officer pinning her to the ground and 
the second officer punching her in 
the face.
Last month, the local activist organization United Against Police 
Terror: San Diego received hate mail 
containing obscene language from an 
IP address that traced back to the 
County Sheriff ’s Department. As of 
now, the department is performing 
an internal investigation into the 
matter, according to a statement 
issued by department spokeswoman 
Cat Mendonca. 
UAPTSD will be holding a rally on 
Oct. 22 as part of the National Day of Protest Against Police Brutality.
According to the statistics compiled 
by the organization Cop Crisis, the 
last time the Department of Justice 
compiled a national report on police 
misconduct in 2001, 95 percent of 
all law enforcement agencies in the 
country saw a decline in the number 
of misconduct incidents.▶ SHERIFF ,  from page 1Simon  Yu   siy007@ucsd.edureaders can contact
Josh  Lelfer   jlefler@ucsd.edureaders can contact
Less Than One Quarter of  Sexual Harassment and Misconduct Cases Implicate University Faculty Members
▶ ASSAULT,  from page 1
Tina  Butoiu   cbutoiu@ucsd.edureaders can contactLooking for the 
New Business 
Column?
Now posted every Wednesday 
night, after the A.S. Council 
meeting, online.
ucsdguardian.org
Correction:
In our Oct. 15 issue, the location of the“Phantom of the Opera” play 
was incorrectly listed as The Old Globe. The correct location is the 
San Diego Civic Theatre. Additionally, a release date of April 10 was 
mistakenly listed. The play’s opening night was Oct. 7.  We would also 
like to correct that the anniversary of the play is the 29th, not the 25th. 4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 22, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CASSIA  POLLOCK
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Since 1997, the United States has 
consistently been one of the top two 
heaviest carbon dioxide emitters 
along with China. What is strikingly 
worrying about these numbers is 
that we’re closer to China — which is 
now first — than from third-ranked 
Russia, but we only have about one-
fifth of China’s population. The main 
reason for this comes from the fact 
that in a capitalist, wasteful economy, 
the U.S. remains a top champion for 
excessively consuming fossil fuels.
The U.S. Energy Information 
Administration reports that “in 
2014, the United States generated 
about 4,093 billion kilowatt hours 
of electricity. About 67 percent of 
the electricity generated was from 
fossil fuels (coal, natural gas, and 
petroleum). ” Renewable energies 
are only 13 percent of the energy 
production in the U.S., coming 
mostly from hydropower and wind 
power. Now, most would argue that 
such a high energy consumption and 
production is necessary for one of the 
world’s premier economies to prosper. 
But a quick look across the Atlantic, 
to another top-five economic power, 
tells us there is another way to provide 
energy to our citizens.
Germany has been ahead of the 
curve for many years now, mainly 
thanks to its by-all-means intense 
reaction to 2011’s Fukushima 
nuclear disaster. In what is now 
called the “Energiewende, ” or 
“Energy Transformation, ” Germany 
voted to “shut down its nuclear 
capability within 10 years … [and] 
to replace it with renewable energy, 
cut greenhouse-gas emissions by 
40 percent by 2020 and 80 percent 
by 2050, ensur[ing] renewables 
contribute 80 percent of Germany’s 
energy by 2050, and [that] energy 
consumption drops 20 percent by 
2020 and 50 percent by 2050. ” All of 
this paints a picture of a government 
that has recognized a problem and has 
addressed it in dramatic fashion. Take 
note, America!
Although Germany is still the 
eighth-largest producer of coal in 
the world and imports more coal 
from the U.S., as soon as 2014 came 
around, even this tendency was 
inverted. For the first time in four 
years, according to data “by AGEB, an 
industry association, total coal-fired 
power generation fell by 6 percent 
[in 2014], ” while the renewables 
proportion in the total energy source 
increased. Even though coal-based 
energy was supposed to compensate 
for the nuclear drop-off, in Germany, 
even removing coal from the energy 
sources is happening more quickly 
than predicted.
Germany’s goals and achievements 
are remarkable. “Renewable sources 
accounted for 27.8 percent of 
Germany’s power consumption 
in 2014, up from 6.2 percent in 
2000, ” reports thinkprogress.org. 
Furthermore, “since 2003 (the start 
of the initial nuclear phaseout), 
electricity from nuclear dropped by 
68 terawatt hours. Over the same 
time, renewable electricity increased 
by 106 TWh, ” energytransition.
de says. With Germany planning 
to phase out all nuclear energy by 
2022, reducing greenhouse gases 
by 80 percent by 2050 and leading 
the way for industrialized powers in 
renewable energies, it is time for the 
U.S. to recognize that someone else 
does it better and to get inspired by 
the German model to improve its own 
energy plan.A former member of Alpha Epsilon Phi posted a picture 
of her conversation with a recently dismissed Sigma 
Alpha Epsilon pledge to Facebook last Thursday. The 
controversial screenshot included messages from the male student 
asking women to send him pictures with “Rush SAE” painted on 
their breasts, which is apparently a common practice in Greek 
life known as “rush boobs. ” The discussions that have been taking 
place in this past week have been largely divisive. One half of 
the student body is condemning SAE, and Greeks in general, 
for actively practicing such a demeaning tradition. Others have 
raised concerns with the screenshot itself for naming the pledge in 
question — which can be seen as cyberbullying — and allegedly 
ruining his future. 
Fraternities across the country have incorporated “rush boobs” 
in the initiation process for years. In fact, the Greek website Total 
Frat Move features weekly compilations of hundreds of “rush 
boobs” submitted to chapters all over the United States. As a 
result, pledges feel obligated to participate in these activities to fit 
in and improve their chances of being initiated. Fraternities are 
so comfortable making inappropriate requests to women, and 
sororities are so accustomed to accommodating these requests, 
that members of Greek society no longer recognize that these 
actions are problematic, regardless of their gender. Male students 
are taught that demeaning women is acceptable and even 
encouraged from the moment they enter Greek life. Internalized 
microaggressions initially manifest themselves in seemingly harmless ways, like asking women to promote specific chapters 
using their bodies, but all of these traditions are part of the reason 
why sexual assault is so prevalent in Greek life. By convincing 
pledges that they are powerful enough to ask women to deface 
their bodies, fraternities are implying to their recruits that they are 
entitled to anything they want from women, such as sexual favors.
Although SAE is not the only fraternity prone to this 
misogynistic behavior, it is especially ironic that the national 
chapter’s mission is to shape its members into “true gentlemen” , 
while pulling off sexist recruitment activities like “rush boobs. ” 
True gentlemen, my ass. True gentlemen don’t get suspended 
for sexually harassing sorority members, as CBS reported. True 
gentlemen don’t get their recognition as a fraternity revoked, as the 
UC Davis SAE chapter did. In addition to these expectations, true 
gentlemen do not support breast cancer research and awareness 
philanthropy, and then “rush boobs. ” While the UCSD Guardian 
Editorial Board appreciates that the UCSD SAE chapter is handling 
this, hopefully a la Olivia Pope, and that it “does not condone 
objectifying women or the degradation of others” — we can’t 
help but think, what the hell? What were their members thinking 
(or not thinking) when “rush boobs” seemed like an idea that 
coincided with being “true gentlemen”? Hopefully, SAE — and the 
Greek community in general — will get its act together and realize 
what a true gentleman is. 
Admittedly, it is unfortunate that the former pledge’s 
name was not blurred out or removed in the screenshot, 
See RUSH BOOBS, page 5
Professor Alexander Coward is 
one of the few academics willing to 
risk his career and reputation for the 
welfare of his students, although his 
name might suggest otherwise. He is 
the only full time “teaching professor” 
in the the math department, meaning 
his research focuses on pedagogy 
rather than pure mathematics. This 
is why his termination, beginning 
in June 2016, represents the tragic 
trend that the University of California 
system and other large research 
universities value money and a 
prestigious research reputation over 
the quality of academic instruction 
for students. Now that he is facing 
an untimely dismissal from the UC 
Berkeley math department, students 
must stand up for him. While UC 
Berkeley did not disclose the specifics 
of why Coward’s contract was 
terminated, his approachability and 
innovative methods clearly deviated 
from the norm. 
Coward is, by all accounts, an 
exceptional mathematics teacher. His 
students fare better than their peers in 
their math classes by .17 grade points. 
But more than academic success, 
he has the rare ability to inspire and 
encourage his students despite the 
UC Berkeley academic pressure 
cooker. He emails students with encouragements and offers life advice 
in office hours. One of the most 
telling statistics is that his lectures 
have a 95-percent attendance rate. 
Teachers like this are diamonds in 
the rough of large universities. When 
most professors teach by PowerPoint 
and have little interaction with 
students, Coward’s methods stick out.  
According to an open letter 
written by Coward explaining why 
he would break a teachers’ strike to 
continue teaching his students, the 
math department has repeatedly asked 
him to be “more ordinary” and “align 
to the norms of the department. ” 
He refused and continued to teach 
in his peculiar-yet-effective way. On 
Oct. 20 over 2,000 students gathered 
outside the hall where Coward 
appealed his termination, and while 
over 3,000 students have signed an 
online petition to “Keep Coward at 
Cal, ” their opinion evidently does not 
matter. The administration’s reaction 
to Coward’s methods is unfortunately 
unsurprising; as an old Japanese 
proverb says, “The nail that sticks out 
gets hammered down. ”
Coward’s open letter quickly 
went viral. This “crossing of the 
picket line” demonstrates one more 
avenue for him to communicate his 
love for teaching and dedication to students. Not only does his 
dismissal emphasize that the 
university is no longer focused on 
learning, but also shows how the 
administration continuously ignores 
the pleas of students for a better 
education and respect under the 
University’s policies. 
The conversation on education 
has increasingly revolved around 
dollar signs and decimal points. 
Unlike other professors who should 
have been fired years ago, namely the 
infamous UC Berkeley astronomy 
professor Geoff Marcy, Coward 
understood how to touch a student’s 
soul rather than harass it. The 
University of California’s aversion to 
creativity and ingenuity is omnipotent 
in the UC system but this time it has 
gone too far. 
It is absurd that the university 
turns a blind eye to students who are 
hurting because of “protocol” and to 
avoid tainting its reputation but will 
jump at the chance to fire someone 
who appropriately, and legally, 
deviates from the norm. Terminating 
Coward for no other reason than 
“staff turnover” is a disservice and 
will ultimately ruin the credibility of 
the institution, and its educational 
value for students who want teachers 
that actually care about teaching.UCB Fired Professor, Despite Impressive Teaching Reputation
Vincent Pham
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Tina Butoiu
MANAGING EDITOR
Rosina Garcia
MANAGING EDITOR  
Cassia Pollock
OPINION EDITOR
Kriti Sarin
NEWS EDITOR
Jacky To
ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITOR
Allison Kubo
FEATURES EDITOR
Kyle Somers
ASSOCIATE FEATURES EDITOR
Olga Golubkova
CO-LIFESTYLE EDITOREDITORIAL  BOARD
The UCSD Guardian is published twice a week at the 
University of California at San Diego. Contents © 
2015. Views expressed herein represent the majority 
vote of the editorial board and are not necessarily those 
of the UC Board of Regents, the ASUCSD or the 
members of the Guardian staff. Following the aftermath of the “Rush Boobs” scandal, in which SAE solicited topless photos from women, 
   that fraternity hosted a breast cancer philanthopy. The Editorial Board laments their contradictions.The True Gentlemen
ILLUSTRATION   BY  ELYSE YANGU .S. Should 
Use Clean 
Energy
Across  the  Globe
Marcus Thuillier  &  Ayat  Amin
OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 22, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
which received over 200 shares on 
Facebook before being removed. 
And it is unfortunate that other 
major news sources, including 
Fox and NBC, mentioned him by 
name in their coverage of the issue. 
In addition, it’s also unfortunate 
that of the thousands of fraternity 
men participating in this tradition, 
a newly recruited pledge was the 
only one who was caught. However, 
that should not be the focus of all 
conversations surrounding this 
incident. Instead of asking why the 
female student neglected to consider 
the pledge’s feelings when publicizing 
this conversation, people should be asking why this conversation even 
occurred in the first place. 
A student has actually asked that 
question in the UCSD Free & For 
Sale 2.0 group on Facebook to raise 
awareness of the innate misogyny that 
exists in the interfraternity society. 
Interestingly enough, the same people 
who rushed to defend the SAE pledge’s 
right to privacy also cyberbullied this 
student for talking about the issue at 
all. Using the excuse that he posted 
irrelevant content in a group primarily 
used for buying and selling goods 
to fellow students, dozens of people 
replied to the post with scathing 
comments — namely a lengthy 
response that called the student an underweight virgin, implied that he 
posted about the incident to receive 
sympathetic attention from women 
and suggested he douse himself in 
sulfuric acid. This interaction is a 
perfect example of the current attitude 
toward gender-related issues at UCSD: 
indifference and ignorance of the 
problems, defensiveness regarding 
personal involvement and contempt 
for those who attempt to voice 
opinions that deviate from the norm. 
When incidents like “rush boobs” 
are so prevalent, it’s time to address 
these problems head on instead of 
pretending like they don’t exist. At 
least, that’s what true gentlemen 
would do. TRITON
PANTRYFOOD
location: Original Student Center
email: foodpantry@ucsd.edu
phone: (858) 534-5694The mission of the Triton Food Pantry is to provide a discreet 
service to UCSD students in need of food. Our goals are to 
ensure that every student has enough energy to get through 
the day and that no student needs to give up a single meal 
for any reason. We aim to build a network of resources and 
awareness about food insecurity.
Hours subject to change in future quarters.Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri
9am–1pm 3pm–6pm 3pm–6pm 9am–1pm 9am–1pmFall Quarter Hours:
Social
Power
HourSocial
Power
Hour
FREE GAMES, MUSIC, AND FOOD!FREE GAMES, MUSIC, AND FOOD!
FIRST COME, FIRST SERVEd
FIRST COME, FIRST SERVEd
DATESDATES
WHEN AND WHEREWHEN AND WHERE
PC COMMUTER
LOUNGE5PMOCT. 22
NOV. 5 &  19AND ALSO
CONFUSED MUSE  By Elyse Yang 
Greek Fraternities Have a Long Journey to Becoming “True Gentlemen”
▶ RUSH BOOBS,  from page 4SEND YOUR 
LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGFEEL LIKE
KNOCKING
ME DOWN
A PEG?Q&A
STEVEN SPIELBERG
INTERVIEW BY JACKY TO // STAFF WRITER
Spielberg explains to a group of university 
journalists why his new Cold War drama 
“Bridge of Spies” is relevant today and how being 
a father gives him the desire to revisit history.
What was the most challenging scene to film in 
“Bridge of Spies”?
The most challenging scene of “Bridge of Spies” by 
far was the scene on the Glienicke Bridge. We actually shot on the 
real bridge where the spy swap occurred all those many decades ago. 
That was the most difficult part because I was faced with a scene that 
must pay off, that must culminate in the drama of everyone’s stories, 
especially on one location — which happened to be, symbolically, a 
bridge. There was a lot of pressure for me to perform and do a good 
job, and get the actors to do equally good jobs. So that was a difficult 
scene, not just because it was so cold and we were all freezing, but 
because there was a lot of weight on all of us to make that the best 
scene in the movie.Guardian:
Spielberg:
Well, I think this stor y is only as relevant as 
the people who find that kind of story interesting. I don’t 
ever want to impose what I find relevant on others who 
might not. But I feel, just speaking personally, somebody 
who has the talent to negotiate and not intimidate, to cajole 
and not threaten, to basically compromise and not rattle 
sabers, is something that this world needs a lot more of 
that we’re just not getting. I just find that Donovan, 
played very authentically by Tom Hanks, is a great 
example of what we need more of today — not only 
in the diplomatic corps but on Capitol Hill.Spielberg:What made you decide to direct a film about James 
B. Donovan’s negotiations, and why do you think his story is 
relevant and will resonate with audiences in this day and age?SF Foghorn:
As a director, sometimes I 
find things on the set on the day of shooting, 
and that was just one such instance. I never planned 
on showing the flashbulbs, so therefore, there was 
no premeditation or metaphor intended. But when 
I saw the flashbulbs laying there, it reminded me 
of my own childhood when all of us had flashbulbs 
that you would pop out with your thumb and 
they hit the floor. I just thought it was a kind of an 
acknowledgment of that era when celebrities or 
people who were infamously on the national scene 
were suddenly thrown from suburbia into a situation 
where they, for the first time in probably their entire 
lives, had to step on flashbulbs.Spielberg:I especially enjoyed the vi -
gnette of Donovan stepping on a paparazzi’s 
discarded camera bowl. Was there any 
symbolism behind that moment?Daily Bruin:
Well, I think there’s humor in every 
situation. And the worse the situation, the more the 
characters in the situation need to find something to distract 
them from the imminent dangers. Humor, to me, is a natural 
byproduct of just being alive and being able to respond. I 
find that even in my most serious movies, to not have humor 
would be to deny the actual existence of the way all of us 
kind of live our lives. Even when we think nothing’s funny 
about what’s happening to us, there’s always somebody 
watching who thinks it’s pretty funny to them.Spielberg: There were humorous moments in the film. 
How do you approach using humor?Fordham:When I became a dad for the first time, life took 
a very serious turn. I just became concerned about something 
that I was never concerned about, which was the future of my 
children. When I started having kids, it made me look ahead, 
and then that forced me to look back. I’ve always said to my 
kids, “You can’t go forward unless you know where all of us 
collectively have been. ” And so I’ve always had this interest in 
historical subjects and biographies, but I never really turned to 
that until I got serious about being a parent. Spielberg:You started out making films in the 70s with a 
scientific and supernatural narrative drive. Now, in more re -
cent years, you’ve transitioned to more historical-fiction-based 
dramas. How much of a role do you play as an educator when 
directing historical fiction?Panther:
Well, quite often, I do a movie in a genre of which 
I’ d never done before. I’ d never done anything 
like “Saving Private Ryan” before. I’ d never done anything 
like “Schindler’s List” before. I’ d never made a movie 
like “Jaws” before or “Raiders of the Lost Ark” . There 
are so many movies that, for me, were complete 
firsts. There are other movies — like the sequels to 
the adventure movies or the sequels to the dinosaur 
movies — that are no less challenging but the 
originality in concept is not as exciting or 
as dangerous as the first ones were. So, I’m 
more challenged by a genre, like for “Bridge 
of Spies, ” because I’ d never done anything 
about spies before. I’m more challenged 
by something like that than I am by 
something that I’ve done versions of 
several times in my career.Spielberg:Going off that, given that you’ve been directing 
for so many years, do you feel that the nature of the craft has 
changed at all, or that on this film you did something you’ d 
never done before?Guardian:
Well, a hero is a person who 
doesn’t know they’re heroes. I don’t set out 
to glorify a character. If an audience wants to 
list a character higher, then from my point of 
view as a director, that’s absolutely fine. And 
there are certain characters, like Indiana Jones, 
that I hope audience members will lift them 
way out of my reach and turn them into their 
heroes. But it’s not something I set out to do 
because it’s OK to do it. I think with a piece of 
comic art or real Saturday matinee popcorn 
adventure movie. But when I’m dealing with 
history it’s not my job to forge heroes. It’s my 
job to be accurate to the event even when we 
sometimes fictionalize some of the drama but 
to be accurate with the events. And when that 
happens I don’t really think about Donovan or 
Schindler or Lincoln as my hero. I think of them 
as people I can learn something from, but I’m 
really happy to hear if any of those characters 
become the heroes of others.Spielberg:Much of your fiction-based 
work features a hero figure, whether 
it’s someone like Indiana Jones or Ray 
Ferrier from “War of the Worlds. ” Do you 
see “Bridge of Spies” as one of those movies, 
like “Lincoln” and “Schindler’s List, ” that are 
about real people, as hero movies too?U of MD:
PHOTO COURTESY OF DREAMWORKS PICTURESI’m pretty crazy about books. I read them, talk about them, and in 
the case of Mervyn Peake’s “Titus Groan,” obsess over them. Oh, 
you’ve never heard of it? Well, let me give you Three Reasons Why 
You Should Read “Titus Groan.” 
 Prose and cons: Through phenomenal — albeit lengthy — prose, the encompassing castle 
of Gormenghast accrues dimension and substance. Don’t just take my word for it — take 
his: “Titus is the seventy-seventh. Heir to a crumbling summit: to a sea of nettles: to an 
empire of red rust: to rituals’  footprints ankle-deep in stone. Gormenghast. Withdrawn and 
ruinous it broods in umbra: the immemorial masonry: the towers: the tracts.” 
 Despite its papery foundation, Gormenghast feels more than real. But Peake’s descriptions sur -
pass palpable attributes:
 “They were all-but forgotten people: the breed that was remembered with a start, or with the 
unreality of a recrudescent dream.” 
 The book is peppered with apt links between unrelated concepts. The verbiage can be a bit over -
whelming at times but remains incredibly satisfying, like discovering the perfect conclusion to a limerick 
or a really solid sandwich.
 
Gormenghast has a lot of character. The inhabitants of the castle are as fully fleshed 
— at least at the start of the book — as the world they occupy. Beneath the iron-shod 
wheels of tradition lies the melancholic Earl, Lord Sepulchrave, and his osseous ser -
vant, Flay; the pendulous chef, Swelter, from whose grasp escapes the scheming kitchen 
boy, Steerpike and the willful Lady, Fuchsia, with her querulous caretaker, Nannie Slagg. But not all 
are content to be ruled by archaic tradition.
 “High-shouldered to a degree little short of malformation, slender and adroit of limb and 
frame, his eyes close-set and the colour of dried blood, he is still climbing, not down across the back 
of Gormenghast but up the spiral staircase of its soul.” 
 
Reading Peake is a wordy pursuit. You’ll learn a ton — and I mean a ton — of words.   
V ocabulary list comes with complementary descriptions of castles, trees, the weather, 
birds, wooden carvings, facial expressions, clothing and rad sword fights.  
 I could go on: I love the amorality, the undercurrent of wry humor and the interwoven 
horror. But there’s a reason why this is titled “Three Reasons Why You Should Read Titus Groan” 
— and that’s because I’m only allowed 500 words. To be honest, there’s a reasonable chance that 
you won’t like “Titus Groan.” It’s dense with strange adjectives, long-winded and the plot begins a 
quarter way through. But if you try, you too may find yourself drawn into Peake’s masterfully crafted, 
mysterious world.
 “Drear ritual turned its wheel. ... The passions, no greater than candle flames, flickered in 
Time’ s yawn, for Gormenghast, huge and adumbrate, out-crumbles all.”WEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 22, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
The  Christian  
Lifestyle:  
An Advice 
Column 
After provoking American 
Airlines and Southwest to 
duke it out for his plane 
ticket on Twitter — the decisive 
factor being the former’s offer to 
role-play Old Hollywood with 
apple juice — Christian Gerard 
Gella had a hint that running an 
advice column could be equally as 
entropic. After tearing businesses 
down on Yelp, critiquing Wall 
Street’s large chain corporations 
one CVS Pharmacy at a time and 
failing to garner any traffic, he 
decided that a better plan of action 
would be to uplift people rather 
than mangle with overzealous 
CEOs. Gella — pronounced closely 
to “hell ya!” — aspires to one day 
be a television screenwriter, but 
for now, he’ll dish up a load of 
snark on command, even though 
he claims to be as empathetic as a 
Golden Retriever.
How can I be more social 
and find more opportunities to 
network? — Anonymous
Being social and networking 
are two entirely different entities 
— perhaps distinct in a way that 
brings up the timeless ol’ cliche 
of apples and oranges. One is the 
basic Sims need: an assurance that 
you won’t go crazy talking to some 
Five Nights at Freddy animatronic 
during a particularly dull class. 
The latter is what people believe 
will lead to their next job at a 
gentrifying start-up tech company 
in San Francisco. In theory, 
networking should help you feel 
more confident moving into the job 
market, knowing your friends are 
steering the nautical of a sinking 
ship with you.
Joining a cult nowadays is a 
surefire way to be BCBG — that’s 
French for posh and preppy. These 
lovely aggregates of people come in 
all kinds of shapes and sizes — as 
small as two people over a coffee 
cup of pure creamer to people 
huddling together like flamencos 
in a ritual dance. Being social 
can easily be postulated by game 
theory, which statistically makes it 
a 50-50 for you to make a friend. 
What’s more important, however, 
is that you make quality friends 
who are connoisseurs of the great 
things in life: Jane the Virgin, 
deep philosophical questioning of 
the universe and giving free rides 
to the airport. In order to make 
friends like these, consider being 
open with your interests. Wear that 
Colgate T-shirt to show that you 
are proud of that smile. Publically 
scroll through Tumblr in hopes that 
someone will catch you and exclaim 
they have the same interests. Flail 
your arms in public, then narrow 
down your choices from who hasn’t 
left the vicinity.
Networking follows a similar 
praxis, though it might be of 
interest to find people who share 
a goal or passion with you. The 
formula just requires water: 
Stumble into a room of people — 
they usually have set, organized 
times online — and start mingling. 
The most important thing is to put 
yourself out there with impunity.
Need any advice on acclimating 
to UCSD? Struggling with a 
nasty case of the break-up? 
Need better ways to burn a tuna 
melt sandwich? Email lifestyle@
ucsdguardian.org with your 
questions and your anonymity, if 
wanted, and we’ll answer as many 
as we can!
CHRISTIAN GELLA 
CGELLA@UCSD.EDU
Three Reasons Why 
You Should Read “Titus Groan” 
1.
2.
3.
I’m pretty crazy about books. I read them, talk about them, 
and in the case of Mervyn Peake’s “Titus Groan, ” obsess over 
them. Oh, you’ve never heard of it? Well, let me give you 
Three Reasons Why You Should Read “Titus Groan. ” 
by Adam Fisher // Staff Writer
FIND US ON FACEBOOK 
WWW.FACEBOOK.COM/UCSDGUARDIANILLUSTRATION BY KELLY TINDALL8     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 22, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  WEEKEND
It is 1960, and the Cold War 
has the world in its grip. In 
Brooklyn, British-born Soviet 
spy Rudolf Abel (Mark Rylance) is 
captured by the FBI, and while his 
innocence is by all accounts out of 
the question, the U.S. is compelled 
to give him a fair trial. Into this 
affair steps insurance lawyer 
James Donovan (Tom Hanks), 
accepting the government’s request 
to act as his defense attorney.For roughly the next 50 minutes, 
Spielberg and company are at 
the top of their game, breathing 
life into this gripping historical 
courtroom drama. With the Cohen 
brothers co-writing with Matt 
Charman, elements of their style 
shine brightly through the script, 
with a surprising amount of off-
kilter humor and droll dialogue.
While Hanks, as per usual, doesn’t 
exactly submerge into his character, his charismatic manner of delivering 
witty phrases works wonderfully 
against Rylance, whose Soviet spy 
is compelling and charming. There’s 
a real buoyancy to the interactions 
on screen while a number of 
interesting issues are explored. 
Without becoming too heavy-
handed, Donovan walks the fine line 
between administering justice and 
upsetting the Soviet-fearing public.
But alas, this cannot last. About 
50 minutes in, the real central plot 
of the film emerges. A U.S. spy 
plane, on an aerial reconnaissance 
mission through Soviet territory, is 
shot down and its pilot, Francis Gary 
Powers (Austin Stowell), captured.
The CIA enlists Donovan as 
an independent agent to broker 
a deal between the U.S. and the USSR, intending to exchange Abel 
for Powers. This sounds like an 
intriguing enough setup, until the 
story shifts to East Berlin, where the 
exchange is meant to take place, as 
the Berlin Wall is nearly completed.
As can be expected, a number of 
complications arise. The governments 
of East Germany and the USSR, while 
close bedfellows, do not see eye-to-eye 
on the matter of the prisoner exchange. 
What is meant to be a taut 
political dialogue, though, and a 
race against time to retrieve Powers,  
devolves into a series of, well, 
business meetings. With a certain 
Kafka-esque flair to it, Donovan 
runs from one party to the other, 
dealing with mounting bureaucratic 
issues, trying desperately to make a 
deal happen and keep us interested in the pencil-pushing on screen.
When the end finally comes, 
there’s merely a sigh, with little joy 
or elation, that seems appropriate 
for having spent the last hour 
engaged in ponderous negotiations. 
Perhaps part of the issue is that 
certain aspects of the film’s second 
half are curiously underdeveloped, 
especially Powers himself, who is a 
mere wisp of a character compared 
to Alda. Indeed, the final twisted 
brilliance of “Bridge of Spies” is 
that we’ d rather defect to the Soviet 
Union and spend some more 
time with Alda than bother with 
this prisoner-exchange business..
—  Dieter  jOubert 
Senior Staff WriterFILM   REVIEW
Directed by   Steven Spielberg
Starring  Tom Hanks, Mark Rylance, Austin Stowell, Amy Ryan
Rated  PG-13
Release Date  Oct. 16Spielberg’s Cold W ar spy drama burns brightly for an 
hour and then sputters for another 80 minutes.bridge  of  spiesPHOTO COURTESY OF DREAMWORKS PICTURES
The dance began with a 
dubious tap of his foot and 
a coy snap of her wrist. 
They were ‘50s teens exploring the 
charms of adolescence, co-workers 
dreaming of daring, unspoken 
romance, Parisian lovers delighting in 
an unlikely pairing. The Old Globe’s 
latest production, “In Y our Arms” 
is undoubtedly a love story, but not 
one of the usual sorts: with neither 
dialogue nor an intermission, the 
play places an ambitious reliance 
on a series of aesthetically alluring 
vignettes. Both fast-moving enough 
to prevent the audience from dwelling 
on full bladders — a potential 
consequence of an unbroken 105 
minutes — and varied enough to discourage any desensitization of 
viewers’ emotional palates, the 
production is a tremendous success 
and a thrilling tribute to an all-
enduring theme.
T o convey this theme — resilient, 
lasting romance — “In Y our Arms” 
never turns to flirtatious banter or 
dramatically shouted confessions of 
love. Rather, the production places 
its focus on aesthetics, aiming to 
craft a visually powerful portrayal 
of a feeling we’ve come to appreciate 
through language and touch. As 
much as “In Y our Arms” is a story 
of love, it is also, undeniably, one of 
beauty. Award-winning director and 
choreographer Christopher Gattelli 
works toward a striking overall aesthetic, unifying the distinctive 
styles of each vignette with a 
charmingly original score by Stephen 
Flaherty and a common backdrop.
The play is set at the Casa di 
Giulietta in Verona, the Capulet 
family’s imagined residence 
in Shakespeare’s “Romeo and 
Juliet.” One of its walls — one 
famously covered in the letters 
and tokens of lovers past and 
present — forms the background 
of the play, cunningly linking 
the series of individual stories 
as if they were the letters being 
enacted. Yet, despite following 
a single overarching style, the 
vignettes each convey a beauty of 
their own, telling the stories of 
lovers throughout time and across 
cultures through scene-specific 
dances, costumes and lighting. 
A fitting reenactment of 
Shakespeare’s passionate balcony 
scene acts as the production’s 
prologue, unfurling into “In 
Your Arms, ” a touching parade 
of unknown lovers whose dance continues in “Sand Dancing” 
and in the reprise. An element 
of drama is introduced in “The 
Lover’s Jacket, ” a fiery tale of love 
stolen and reclaimed, told through 
fervent tangos and flamencos. The 
bold red costumes and emotional 
expressions of dancer Glenda 
Sol Koeraus craft a passionate, 
irresistible energy that is drastically 
altered by the playful “Love With 
the Top Down. ” The scene of two 
teens exchanging endearingly 
awkward signs of affection is light 
and nostalgic, an atmosphere 
that is drastically altered in “ A 
Wedding Dance, ” a tragically 
beautiful contradiction of love and 
evil set in Africa and conveyed 
through powerful shadow play. 
The constant fluctuations in 
mood are the result of thoughtful 
organization: comedy is preceded 
by drama, alternating with each 
vignette to successfully hold the 
viewer’s attention.
Perhaps the most unexpected 
comedic relief came in “The Dance Contest, ” a hilarious competition 
between dancers from the Soviet 
Union and United States. Lustful 
desire exchanged the political 
tension for one of a more romantic 
nature, and a case of jealousy 
resulted in Jen Harris being held 
at gunpoint, only to provoke her 
aggressor into breaking character. 
But the break only added to the 
hilarity of the scene, causing other 
dancers to lose their composure 
in a comical pause that thrilled 
the audience and retrieved them 
from a mid-show lull brought on 
by slower paced scenes “Life-Long 
Love” and “Intergalactic Planetary. ”
Yet, “In Your Arms” certainly 
achieves beauty. The production 
presents an exceptional portrait of 
lovers solely through dance and 
aesthetics, perhaps conveying a 
more powerful sense of romance 
than dialogue ever could. 
—   Karl y  nisson
A&E EditorDirected and Choreographed by   Christopher Gattell
Starring  Jenn Harris, Glenda Sol Koeraus, Jonathan Sharp 
Runs   Sept. 16 to Oct. 25
Location  The Old GlobeStriking dances and aesthetics abolish the need for 
dialogue in The Old Globe’s latest production.PHOTO USED WITH PERMISSION FROM CAROL ROSEGG
in  y our  armsPLA Y   REVIEWWEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 22, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
Drenched in a deep red hue 
from the start, “Crimson 
Peak” begins with the bones of 
a horror film. A young Edith Cushing, 
played by Mia W asikowska, lies in bed 
after her mother’s funeral, yearning 
for a shoulder to cry on. Instead of 
receiving a sympathetic ear late in the 
night, she’s warned by a skeletal ghost 
shrieking, “Beware of Crimson Peak!” 
Edith cries for help, and no one comes 
to her rescue. Alone in the world with 
no one besides of her titan-of-industry father Carter Cushing, played by Jim 
Beaver and an obtuse warning and the 
scare of a lifetime, Edith turns inward 
and begins to write horror. Y ears later, 
as a young woman and in spite of 
her talent, she’s shot down by every 
publisher for the same misguided 
notion — “women don’t write horror. ”
The ghosts return soon after the Old 
World-handsome Sir Thomas Sharpe, 
played by Tom Hiddleston, appears, 
who begins to whisk Edith away by 
praising her work. Failing to use the potential energy of this romance, a lack 
of suspense and jerky pace in the overly 
long first act pulls us out of Guillermo 
del Toro’s exquisitely designed and 
ornate world. Extensive table setting 
becomes all too grating for a bit. The 
story slogs in the first third with the 
exception of some patented del Toro 
extreme facial trauma and a ballroom 
dance that introduces the true star 
of the film, Lady Lucille, played by 
Jessica Chastain. The removed and 
exceptionally bitter sister of Thomas, 
Lucille underlays every word with a 
sense of cunning and spiteful wit for 
those she dislikes, namely anybody 
without the Sharpe name. An already 
strained relationship between brother 
and sister only worsens as Thomas 
falls for Edith and returns with her in 
tow to the Sharpes’ dilapidated estate, 
known to locals as Crimson Peak. This is all against the likings of a decidedly 
serviceable Charlie Hunnam as Dr. 
Alan McMichael, Edith’s confidante 
and love interest who begins to 
suspect the intentions of Sir Thomas.
Finally, a jarring change of 
scenery from the bustling streets 
of the city to the grim fog and 
hills of England manages to make 
things more lively. The film shines 
bright after the first act. Shaking 
off the offbeat pacing and bringing 
in tighter editing, “Crimson Peak” 
focuses itself by managing a great 
balance with the elements it’s 
composed of: off-key romance and 
horror. The sense of wonder and 
intricate design from del Toro’s 
magnum opus, “Pan’s Labyrinth, ” 
travel through the veins of this 
film, even if it’s slightly diluted. 
We rarely leave the estate, and yet we never feel confined, with a new 
door or vat to fear at every turn. 
Production values shine with the 
flamboyant costumes and character 
designs for the myriad of monsters. 
The level of technical craftsmanship 
is only met by the level of insanity in 
the final act. “Crimson Peak” evolves 
into its highest form by co-opting 
the style and action of a gory ‘70s 
slasher, getting blunt with knives. 
The unsightly specter of the first 
act is nowhere to be seen, a distant 
memory as the ensuing action and 
giddy thrills dazzle with housewide 
chases, damaged appendages and the 
blessed gift of even more facial trauma.
—  Sam  velazquez 
A&E Editorial Assistant
Before “Crimson Peak” and 
international fame, before 
“Pan’s Labyrinth” and its 
three Oscars, there was “Cronos”: the 
eerie, atmospheric gem that Guillermo 
del Toro made before he was Guillermo 
del Toro. “Cronos” marked the humble 
beginnings of an artist who has since 
redefined the horror genre. Del 
Toro’s debut feature tells the story of a 
middle-class, hyper-ordinary Mexican 
(Federico Luppi) who, unwillingly, 
obtains eternal life. The caveat, of 
course, is that he is now what we would 
call (the film never utters the word) 
a vampire. Del Toro’s trick, however, is to turn the vampire figure into the 
saddest, most helpless monster ever 
conceived. Such humanity is seldom 
seen in films, let alone in horror 
films. “Cronos” uses the fantastic to 
dissect the mundane — a method 
that has since greatly influenced del 
Toro’s career. At one moment, the 
thirsty vampire, kneeling down on 
the floor, licks a drop of blood from a 
public restroom. Few have captured 
the grotesque with such beauty. 
—  mario  a ttie 
Senior Staff WriterFILM   REVIEW
Directed by   Guillermo del Toro
Starring  Mia Wasikowska, Jessica Chastain, Tom Hiddleston
Rated  R
Release Date  Oct. 16An imperfect but unique vision of Guillermo del Toro 
shines with a dedicated cast and sensational ending.Crimson  peak
Crimson  peak  influence:  
CRONOS (1993)
The  Grea t  Gra y  Towers
by   Jennifer  Grundman
Author Scott WeismanBOOK   REVIEW
Vladimir Nabokov once said 
that there was only one school 
in literature — that of talent. 
This can be extended to other fields of 
art, and artists with talent are always 
to some degree enchanters; their work 
makes everything feel both petty and 
sublime. Scott Weisman’s “The Great 
Gray Towers” — a collection of articles 
chronicling the history of Graffiti Hall 
— makes it (perhaps unintentionally) 
clear that the artists were not 
especially talented, or if they were, 
they were too self-absorbed to create 
really good art. The theme threading 
the articles is almost constant: The 
oppressive administration is trying 
to silence a lone group of young, 
brazenly individualistic, rebellious 
artists. However, the romanticism of 
this theme seems too overdone to be 
believable, and it eventually gives way 
to readerly irritation.
It’s hard to imagine that most of the 
“art” and “poetry” the book showcases 
was once really “one of the few things 
that brings spirit, art and beauty to 
this campus, ” as one wall-writer puts 
it in a cited Letter to the Editor. While 
the case can be made that Weisman 
never directly expresses this, many 
of the articles he uses implicitly hold 
to this viewpoint, which is romantic 
to a fault. Certainly no one will 
shed any tears about the loss of this 
overwrought poem found on one 
wall: “In hour of night, by Hecate’s 
light/ When stout-hearted men stay 
home in fright/ We come, and oft 
with voices low/ Dare travel where 
we ought not go … ” In general, much of the art seems to center around 
ideas like existentialism, rebellion 
against authority and self-expression. 
Occasionally, artwork that appears to 
be “just for fun” is presented, and these 
by far are the most enjoyable and least 
self-important. 
But masterful poetry and art was 
apparently never the draw to Graffiti 
Hall; the most frequently cited reason 
for its popularity was its ability to 
connect people and offer them a 
way to express their feelings. On the 
walls were various statements which 
reflected a newfound sensitivity to 
the world and an increased awareness 
of the society’s unjust structures. It’s 
tempting to call this what it most 
obviously is (late adolescence), but 
it’s also clear that among the eight 
“families” who made the walls their 
home, there really was a magic — a 
feeling of camaraderie and defiance 
— in what they created. With this in 
mind, it’s easier to feel a glimmer of 
sympathy for the artists, even if they 
seem pretentious. This turns out to be the book’s saving grace — the aspect 
that, for all the repetitiveness and 
angst, makes it more like a tragedy 
than a farce. 
Weisman has done a commendable 
job gathering what must be all the 
articles ever published about Graffiti 
Hall. The question remains, however, 
whether it was worth it. As the years 
go on, the answer seems more likely 
to be “no. ” The art in Graffiti Hall 
was made by a few people mostly 
as a way to sublimate their stresses 
and joys, and its appeal seems to 
have ended with “self-expression, ” 
excluding anything more mature and 
long-lasting. New classes of UCSD 
students will enroll and graduate, both 
unaware of and increasingly apathetic 
toward the blank walls’ silent pathos. 
Weisman’s book ends with a sense of 
history made and lost, but the history, 
like much of the art, held the most 
enchantment for its creators. 
—   Jennifer Grundman 
 Staff Writer
PHOTO COURTESY OF SPLATTERJUNKIE.COMPHOTO COURTESY OF ACESHOWBIZ
PHOTO COURTESY OF EXPERIENCEUCSD.BLOGSPOT.COM10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 22, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDS$
Gua rdian Classifieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedsBIKES
Schwinn Meridian - $200. Like new condi -
tion, ready to hit the road. They sell for 
$370 at the stores. Save big! Listing ID: 
198816337 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Micro Mini - $350. Micro mini redline. New 
tires, tubes, brakes. Brake cable rims just 
trued. Tight bike. Can’t buy it in a bike 
shop. Ready to race. Listing ID: 198816335 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Diamondback 29er - $480. I have for sale 
my 29er Diamondback 2013 model. Size 
18” , upgraded Hydraulic brakes. Listing ID: 
198816334 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
ELECTRONICS
2 Xbox 360 Slim - $50. The disc tray gets 
stuck sometimes. Both 4gb, comes with 
wires, 2 remotes and 2 games. This is for 
anyone that knows how to fix it and flip it 
if they want. Listing ID: 198816398 at ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mationBeats Studio Wireless - $220. Brand new in-
box Beats Studio. Good holiday gift. Bought 
it and never used. Listing ID: 198816397 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
iPod Touch - $150. Brand new, never 
opened, 16gb white iPod Touch fourth gen. 
Listing ID: 198816395 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
FURNITURE
Dresser, Night table, Bookshelf, Lamp and 
frame - $100. Furniture in attractive condi -
tion. Beautiful lamp design. Light brown 
color night table, bookshelf and dresser. 
Also, have a really cool standing black mir -
ror. Listing ID: 198816400 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
Zebra Chair - $50. Zebra print chair. Selling 
because won’t fit into our space. Pick up 
downtown. Listing ID: 198816399 at ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tion
Solid Wood Kitchen Table - $100. Wood 
kitchen table at a good price because we 
are relocating. Listing ID: 198816403 at ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
t
your vision,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel to 
promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies 
on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.ukLevel: 1234 Level: 1234
SUDOKU
GET INVOLVED!
Join the Associated Students
For mo re info, visit as.ucsd .edu
as.ucsd.edu
asucsd asucsdCouncil Staff & Service
Positions Still Open
& much more... 
DO YOU TWEET? YAY SO DO WE!
@UCSDGua rdian
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 22, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
MORE INFO AT SOVAC.UCSD.EDU/REGISTER
Department. “We were focused 
and determined to play hard every 
point, and it paid off with a road win 
against a team that’s been playing 
well. ”
 The Tritons were excellent at the 
net, out-blocking Cal Poly Pomona 
10–2, holding its team to a -.008 
(22–23–122) attack percentage. The 
Tritons led 65–49 in digs and sided-out 72 percent of the time. They hit 
.211 (40–16–114) for the game.
 S o p h o m o r e  m i d d l e  b l o c k e r  
Rebecca Seaberry led the Tritons 
with a .389 attack percentage and 
seven kills in 18 attacks. She, along 
with sophomore middle blocker 
Alyssa McNeely, had five blocks 
assists. Sophomore libero Amanda 
Colla had a match-high 18 digs and 
aced Cal Poly Pomona three times. 
Freshman middle blocker Kristin Hamlin led the Broncos with nine 
kills while sophomore outside hitter 
Samantha Figueroa had 14 digs.
 UCSD plays its next four matches 
at home in RIMAC Arena, starting 
with Chico State on Friday, Oct. 23. 
The game will be the Tritons’ annual 
Dig for a Cure match and will start 
at 7 p.m.Volleyball to Host Dig for a Cure Match at RIMAC on Friday
Golf  Wraps Up Fall Season on Oct. 30 to Oct. 31 in Hawai’i
spot. For the final round, the Tritons 
shot a 310 (+22). The Tritons ended 
the invitational with a 920 (+56).
The third and final round ended 
with Y amaguchi, Amerson and 
Roseth all tying for the 60th overall 
position, with a shooting of 229 
(+13). Y amaguchi’s ranking dropped 
drastically in the third round: His 73 
in the second round was the lowest by 
any of the Tritons over the day. “We have a lot of work to do in 
order to play at a consistent level, ” 
UCSD Head Coach Jim Ragan told the 
UCSD Athletics Department. “This 
week’s results were disappointing, and 
hopefully we can rebound for our last 
event of the fall next week. ”
Chico State held onto their first 
place spot from Monday and won 
the invitational on Tuesday with 
an 859 (-5). Nova Southeastern, 
the reigning Otter Invitational 
champion, fell a couple of strokes behind Chico State placing second 
with a 863 (-1). The host, Cal State 
Monterey Bay, placed third place 
with a 871 (+7). 
The Tritons look to finish their 
fall season at the Dennis Rose 
Invitational in Hawai’i on Oct. 30 
and Oct. 31 hosted by the University 
of Hawai’i at Hilo. ▶ W. VOLLEYBALL,  from page 12
▶ M. GOLF ,  from page 12readers can contact
Dev  Jain   dajain@ucsd.edu 
readers can contact
Gurkira t  Singh   gsingh@ucsd.edu SPORTS  CLUBS
Cycling : UCSD returned this weekend from one of its strongest-ever 
showings at USA Cycling’s Collegiate Track National Championships held 
at the U.S. Olympic training center in Colorado Springs. 
UCSD had some great results, earning top-10 finishes in the women’s 
individual pursuit (third), men’s match sprint (fifth), men’s 1,000m TT 
(eighth), women’s scratch race (seventh), men’s scratch race (fourth), 
women’s team pursuit (seventh), men’s team pursuit (10th) and co-ed team 
sprint (third).
Both Esther W alker and Eric Geier earned 6th-place finishes in the 
overall individual omnium, and UCSD as a team placed seventh overall. 
UCSD performed well on the 333m track, going toe-to-toe with some of 
the top teams in the country.COMPILED BY BRITTNEY VIERRA
Baseball: The Tritons continued their fall-season schedule in a scrimmage 
against Valhalla High School in El Cajon in San Diego County. 
Sophomore Jordan Kassem got the Tritons off to a fast start with a 
single up the middle and then manufactured his own run with his speed. 
Senior Andrew Hinkle started the game on the mound for the Tritons 
and got three quick outs to start. The Triton pitching staff helped the 
Norsemen offense to four runs over eight innings and pitched relatively 
well. The Tritons were leading 7–5 going into the last inning but fell at 
the very end after a decision by the umpire in favor of the Norsemen. The 
Tritons play Valhalla High School again on Saturday at noon.
Men’s Soccer: The UCSD men’s club soccer team welcomed UC Riverside 
to the Sports Deck on Friday night for the second leg of this season’s home 
and away series. 
Both teams went into the break scoreless after a first half dominated by 
the Tritons.
UCSD seemed to find its stride in the second half with several close 
chances in the opening minutes. Firas Eid gave UCSD a 1–0 lead after a 
nice combination in the midfield.
Unfortunately, UC Riverside was able to find a late equalizer and the 
game ended on a tie.
UCSD played UC Irvine next and went into the half tied at 1–1. UCSD 
scored two more goals in the second half to seal the win and continue its 
undefeated season. 
FOLLOW US 
ON TWITTERSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
MARCUS THUILLIER
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 22, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
bi-weekl y
summar y
Men’s golf finished 16th 
out of 18 at the Otter 
Invitational.
After his first career top-
10 finish (fourth) at 
the Sonoma State 
Invitational, senior 
Jeff Roseth was named 
the CCAA Golfer of the 
Week for the week of Oct. 7. 
Junior Meagan Wright 
has had double-digit 
kills in 18 of the 
Tritons’ 20 matches 
this season.16
4
18
WOMEN'S  SOCCER
UCSD
UCSDHumboldt State
Sonoma State1 - 0
0 - 1
WOMEN'S
VOLLEYBALL
14 16 15UCSD
Cal Poly Pomona25 25 25The UCSD women’s soccer team made another jump in the 
California Collegiate Athletic Association rankings this past 
weekend, moving into a temporary tie for first place after 
besting Humboldt State 1–0 on Friday and then dropping to second 
place after a close 1–0 loss to No. 11 Sonoma State on Sunday. With 
the weekend’s results, the Tritons now stand at 9–5–1 overall and 
5–3–1 in the league as they approach their final conference matches.
Game One
Redshirt junior defender Meghan Berry had the only scoring play of 
the game on a free kick in the 21st minute. Sophomore forward Katie 
O’Laughlin came across the box to finish the shot but headed the ball just 
high of the mark, hitting the crossbar out of Humboldt’s senior goalkeeper 
Caitlin Plese’s reach. Redshirt junior midfielder Kiera Bocchino caught 
the rebound and sent a header home to give the Tritons an early advantage.
“It was a nice goal, and getting it so early in the game, put us in good 
position, ” UCSD Head Coach Brian McManus told the UCSD Athletics 
Department. “ Meghan [Berry] got it started with a free kick from about 
40 yards, straight on. Katie [O’Laughlin] came across the goal area and 
headed it over the keeper and off the crossbar. It took one bounce before 
Kiera [Bocchino] came on to head it in from about two yards out. ”
The Lumberjacks’ junior midfielder Kylie Forbes made an attempt 
to respond in the 24th minute, but senior goalkeeper Kelcie Brodsky 
denied the shot to hold the score at 1–0. The Tritons hung on for the rest 
of regulation play, playing a highly offensive game and out-shooting 
Humboldt by a huge 23–5 margin. Plese kept busy in the Humboldt 
net, saving nine of 10 shots on goal by UCSD in the first half alone; 
she denied seven more in the second half to hold the Tritons to one. 
Brodsky notched three saves in the net, good for her fifth individual 
clean sheet of the season and the 24th for her collegiate career.“This was a really good win for us, ” McManus said. “We could 
have had four or five goals, as the statistics indicate. We created some 
great chances, but their keeper made four or five big-time saves. ”
With the result, the Tritons jumped to a tie for first in the CCAA 
standings, improving to 9–4–1 overall and 5–3–1 in the CCAA. The 
Lumberjacks dropped to 7–5–1 overall and 3–3–1 in the conference.
Game Two
The tables were turned on Sunday as Sonoma State edged 
UCSD 1–0. The Seawolves notched eight shots on goal in the 
first half alone, snagging the lead in the 18th minute after senior 
defender Marissa Marable launched a right-footed shot just 
past Brodsky’s fingertips into the upper left corner of the net.
“We didn’t play very well in the first half, but we were better 
in the second, ” McManus said. “It really came down to one good 
opportunity on each end. They finished theirs, and we didn’t. ”
The Seawolves out-shot the Tritons 19–5 in the match. Freshman 
forward Mary Reilly notched three of UCSD’s five attacks on goal; 
Brodsky held firm in the Triton net with a season-high 12 saves. The 
Tritons dropped to second place in the CCAA, while the Seawolves 
reclaim possession of the first-place spot and improve to 10–1–2 
overall. Sonoma State remains undefeated in league play at 7–0–1. 
UCSD rounds out its conference schedule this week, as it took on 
Cal State San Marcos at home on Wednesday, and will be on the road 
to take on joint CCAA second-place holder Chico State on Friday.
Soccer Shifts
into Second
Tritons shut out Lumberjacks on Friday, are blanked 
by Seawolves on Sunday.
readers can contact
Ka tie  Potts   kpotts@ucsd.edu 
Earlier this week on Monday 
and Tuesday, the UCSD men’s golf 
team participated in the Otter 
Invitational, finishing 16th out of 18 
participating teams at Bayonet and 
Black Horse in the Monterey Bay 
area. The first and second rounds 
were played on Monday and the final 
third round was played on Tuesday. 
Day One
The Tritons shot a 304 in the first 
round and 306 in the second round 
for a total of 610, 34-over par on 
Monday. No. 2 Chico State led the 
field on Monday with a 571 (-5) with 
top-ranked Nova Southeastern only 
three strokes behind in second place 
with 574 (-2). The host No. 6 Cal 
State Monterey and No. 13 Simon 
Fraser ended the day tied for third 
with 581 (+5). The Tritons ended 
Monday as 16th of the 18 teams 
competing. 
Senior Clayton Yamaguchi 
played the best for UCSD that day, 
tying for the 39th position out of 100 competitors. Y amaguchi totalled 
149 (+5) for the day with 76 (+4) in 
the first round and 73 (+1) in the 
second round. 
Sophomore Grant Amerson 
totalled 151 and tied for the 56th 
spot. Close behind, senior Jeff  
Roseth finished with a total of 152 
and ended the day tied for the 61st 
spot. Freshman Jake Haselden made 
his UCSD debut on Monday, ending 
the day with a total of 159, tied for 
89th. Senior Daniel Yang finished 
with a total of 162, tying him at 96th.
Roseth competed at the 
Invitational as the reigning 
California Collegiate Athletic 
Association Golfer of the Week. 
Roseth was able to perform another 
eagle on Tuesday, his second of the 
season. 
Day Two
On Tuesday, the final round of 
the Otter Invitational, the Tritons 
came out to play but could not 
increase their ranking, ending the 
day and the invitational at the 16th WOMEN'S  VOLLEYBALL
Tritons Dominate Broncos on the Road
UCSD crushes Cal Poly Pomona in three straight sets, moves to fifth in CCAA.
The UCSD women’s volleyball 
team defeated Cal Poly Pomona in 
three straight sets Sunday evening 
in Pomona. The Tritons dominated 
the Broncos 25–14, 25–16 and 25–
15, winning all three sets by more 
than nine points. UCSD improved 
its overall record to 11–9 and 7–5 
in the California Collegiate Athletic 
Association and has now won three 
of its last four matches. The Tritons 
are in a three-way tie for fifth place 
in the conference with Cal Poly 
Pomona and San Francisco State.
After scoring the first two points 
of the game, UCSD never gave up 
its lead in the opening set, cruising 
to a 25–14 victory. The second set 
was a little more competitive with 
eight ties and four lead changes. 
The Broncos led in the second set 
12–10, but the Tritons scored four 
unanswered points to take a lead 
they would never give up. Up 16–15, 
UCSD went on a nine-to-one run to 
pull away from the Broncos and win the set to lead 2–0.
The Tritons started off hot in the 
third set, taking a rapid 13–6 lead. 
The Broncos answered with four 
straight points to keep it a close game, 
but UCSD eventually took nine of the 
last 10 points to win the match.
Junior outside hitter Meagan 
Wright led the way for the Tritons 
with 14 kills and 13 digs. Wright’s 14 
kills and 15.5 points were the most for any player. In addition, it was 
Wright’s 12th double-double of the 
season. Wright has been on a tear 
recently with 10 or more kills in 18 
of 20 matches this season.
“We played a good match 
without letting up when we had 
a lead, ” UCSD Head Coach Ricci 
Luyties told the UCSD Athletics 
See W. VOLLEYBALL , page 11MEN'S  GOLF
Tritons 16th at CSUMB
UCSD falls behind early on day one of Otter Invite.
By   D e v  J a i n
Contributing WriterBY  G u r k i r a t  S i n g h
Senior Staff Writer
See M. GOLF , page 11W. Tennis
M. Soccer
W. Soccer
W.  Volleyball
M. Water Polo  10/23
  10/23
  10/23
  10/23
  10/24AT CSUN Fall Invitational
AT Chico State
AT Chico State
VS Chico State
AT Loyola MarymountUPCOMING
UCSD
GAMES
BY KATIE POTTS EDITORIAL ASSISTANT // PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE/ GUARDIAN