VOLUME 48, ISSUE 48  THURSDAY , APRIL 23, 2015 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
FREAKY FRANCO 
FILM
IN THEIR LATEST FILM, 
JONAH HILL AND JAMES 
FRANCO DELIVER POWERFUL 
PERFORMANCES AS A NAIVE 
REPORTER DESPERATE 
FOR REDEMPTION AND A 
CHARISMATIC MURDERER.
A.S.  FINANCIAL  MISHAPS
BACK  TO  THE  PLA YOFFS$430k  THERE  AND  GONE  AGAIN
Baseball  clinches  berth  OPINION,  P age   4
SPORTS,  P age  12
THURSDAY
H 66 L 57FRIDAY
H 67 L 57
SATURDAY
H 66 L 57SUNDAY
H 70 L 56
FORECAST
VERBATIM
WHEN IT 
COMES TO 
EDUCATION... 
GIRLS ARE 
INDEED 
RISKING THEIR 
LIVES TO GO TO SCHOOL.”
-AYAT AMIN & MARCUS 
THUILLIER
ACROSS THE GLOBE  
OPINION , PAGE 4
INSIDE
AVERAGE CAT  ................. 2
EDITORIALS  .................... 4
VINO & VISAS  .................. 6
SUDOKU  ....................... 10
GOLF  ............................ 12“
weekend,  P AGE  7
PHOTO COURTESY OF ACE SHOWBIZ
Students for the Exploration and 
Development of Space at UCSD 
recently launched a $15,000 Kickstarter 
campaign to fund the development 
of a rocket powered by a completely 
3-D-printed engine, a project called 
Vulcan-I. The team publicized the 
campaign after successfully test-
firing a 3-D-printed rocket engine 
two times at Friends of Amateur 
Rocketry test facility in the Mojave 
Desert on April 18.
SEDS@UCSD became the first 
team of undergraduate students 
in the world to successfully design, 
print and test a 3-D-printed rocket 
engine in 2013, but the student 
organization is still working to make 
unprecedented developments in the aerospace engineering industry. Earl 
Warren College senior and SEDS@
UCSD Vice President Alex Finch told 
the UCSD Guardian that Vulcan-I is 
unique because college students are 
fully responsible for its progress, not 
professional engineers.
“This project is unlike any other 
simply because it has never been 
conducted at a university before. We 
will be the first students to launch 
a rocket powered by a 3-D-printed 
engine, and we will be one of the 
first groups ever to do it, ” Finch said. 
“We are doing things that have not 
even been done widely in industry, 
as a completely student-led project, 
spending 20 to 30 hours a week on it 
per person. ”
Finch further explained that the 
organization’s work is relevant today 
because of the rise of the NewSpace 
Movement, which he said promotes an evolutionary shift to a civilization 
in outer space and added that their 
methods were necessary because of the 
inherently expensive nature of space 
exploration.
“With the recent billion dollar 
investments into the NewSpace 
Movement … it is clear that there is a 
vast opportunity to develop outer space 
for human use. The biggest inhibitor to 
this future is the lack of infrastructure 
currently in space, ” Finch said. “It costs 
too much to get things into space. 
SEDS@UCSD is helping reduce the 
cost to access space by taking one of 
the most expensive and complex parts 
of a rocket — the engine — and 3-D 
printing it to significantly reduce the 
cost, time and weight of engines. ”
Sixth College freshman Darren 
Charrier, who is the organization’s CAMPUS
Students celebrated the LGBT Resource Center’s 15th anniversary at the Graffiti Art Park by painting and spreading awareness. 
Photo by Emma Zilber /UCSD Guardian.
LGBT Center Celebrates 
Annual Out and Proud Week
UCSD’s Out and Proud Week 2015, sponsored by 
the LGBT Resource Center, began on Monday and 
will continue through the week with  festivities and 
events aimed at promoting community for LGBT-identified 
students, staff and faculty. 
Out and Proud Week is also intended to examine 
and challenge the modern-day narratives of “coming out, ” 
which the event describes as a difficult experience for                   
many individuals.
“Coming out is not a single action and is different 
around sexuality and gender identities and expressions, and 
for many, coming out and expressions of pride may not be 
safe, ” the event’s website said. “We appreciatively challenge 
what being Out and Proud means and honor the diversity 
within our community. ”
Throughout the week, the LGBT Resource Center is 
tabling on Library Walk between 10:30 a.m. and 4 p.m. 
under a balloon arch, which sports new colors every day. 
Out and Proud Week kicked off with a brown bag lunch on Library Walk, re-enacting the UCSD LGBT community’s 
response to a preacher’s hateful anti-homosexuality sermon 
during Out and Proud Week 2004. After the preacher deliv -
ered his sermon directly in front of the LGBTQIA tent and 
balloon arch, the LGBT community gathered in front of the 
bookstore on Library Walk and ate brown bag lunches to 
demonstrate solidarity.
Following this year’s brown bag lunch, the LGBT 
Resource Center held a generational dialogue in which 
two publicly LGBT-identified UCSD professors — ecol -
ogy, behavior and evolution Chair James Nieh and dance          
professor Eric Geiger — informed students about their 
experiences of coming out.
“We wanted to open up a dialogue between students 
and faculty because there is a generation gap, ” Sixth College 
freshman Kelsey Lyons told the UCSD Guardian. “Coming 
out and being LGBT-identified are different experiences 
during different generations. ”
LGBTQIA Living Learning Community RA Matt   B y  JACKY  TO    SENIOR STAFF WRITER 
SEDS@UCSD Launches $15,000 Kickstarter
Donations will fund the development of an entirely 3-D-printed rocket engine, Vulcan-I.
B Y   Kriti  sarin
associate news editorSee LGBT , page 3
See VULCAN , page 3UC Students 
Lobby State 
Officials at 
ConferenceUC SYSTEM
The event encouraged UC 
students to get involved in 
the development of legislation 
that affects undergraduates.
B Y  Andrew  chao
Contributing Writer
See LOBBY , page 3Students from across the UC 
campuses attended the 2015 UC 
Student Association Student Lobby 
Conference this past weekend to 
lobby elected officials to improve 
California Higher Education and                           
UC affordability.
This conference comes at a time 
when President Napolitano proposed 
a 5-percent annual increase in 
tuition if the state does not provide 
additional funding. She stated that 
almost $217 million in additional 
funds is needed to cover the rising 
costs of the UC system.
Marshall College junior and 
incoming A.S. External VP Krystl 
Fabella told the UCSD Guardian that 
an increase in tuition hinges upon the 
decision by the state legislature to give 
these additional funds. 
“Basically, the University of 
California Student Association 
recognizes now that the fate of our 
tuition rests in the funding decisions 
at the hands of the legislation, ” Fabella 
explained. “We have made it our 
priority to do whatever it takes so that 
UC students are not hit by the tuition 
increase this fall, and that meant 
demanding the extra $217 million 
from the state. ”
According to UCSA President 
Jefferson Kuoch-Seng, the focus for 
this year’s conference was to ensure a 
reinvestment into higher education. 
“This year, the theme of the 
conference is ‘Reclaim the Future, 
Rebuild Education, ’” Kuoch-Seng told 
the Guardian. “We hope to achieve a 
strong supportive reinvestment from 
the state into higher education while 
also empowering our students to fight 
for what they believe in. ”
To ensure steady reinvestment into 
higher education, UCSA has been 
working toward keeping the UCOP 
and Gov. Brown accountable to their 
promises.
“We’ve been pushing for UCOP to 
uphold their end in keeping tuition 
frozen while also trying to make sure 
that [Brown] will keep his promise 
of a steady reinvestment in the UC 
[system], ” Kuoch-Seng said.
UCSA also demonstrated its 
support for a variety of legislation that 
would affect UC students. One such 
legislative measure is SCA1, a step that 
Fabella believes could help make the 
UC Board of Regents more fiscally 
responsible and accountable.
“One of our main legislative tasks 
was support for SCA1, which would 
essentially strip away the UC Regents 
of their constitutional autonomy 
and allow for legislative oversight of 
budgeting and spending, ”            Fabella 
said.
UCSA also lobbied officials to SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 23, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG N EWS
AVERAGE CAT By Christina Carlson
California State University, Long Beach
College of Continuing and Professional Education
Lorinda Owens
Ad size: 5.95 in. X 5 in.UC San DiegoPub Date: 4/6, 4/23Doers Do
CSULB  Summer Sessions 2015
More than 75 Online Summer Classes 
Register Now!
(800) 963-2250 x  60001 | info@ccpe.csulb.edu  
www.ccpe.csulb.edu/summer 
#DoersDo
@CSULBInterSessnTwo 6-Week Sessions 
May 26  – July 2 (S1S)
July 6  – August 14 (S3S) One 12-Week Session 
May 26  – August 14 (SSD) 
No formal admission 
to CSULB required Enroll on a  
“space available” basis Earn units toward 
your degree 
SS_UCSD2v_Ad2_S15.indd   1 3/6/15   3:40 PM
#OMG 
#LIKE US
#FOLLOW US
@ucsdguar dian
#UCSDNEWS
#NOFILTERS @ucsdguardian#FOLLOW USThe Encinitas Union School District 
and the Global Teams in Engineering 
Service  program from the Jacobs 
School of Engineering recently created 
the SISTERS in Science program at 
elementary schools in Encinitas in 
order to cultivate interest in science 
and engineering amongst girls. 
 The SISTERS in Science program, 
which stands for Sustaining Interest 
in Science, Technology, Engineering 
and Research in Society, is an outreach 
program that has been designed to 
spark interest in science, engineering, 
math and other STEM-related fields 
amongst girls. It aims to bring more 
girls into STEM, short for Science, 
Technology, Engineering and 
Mathematics. The SISTERS in Science 
program is geared toward girls at four 
local elementary schools in Encinitas.
A recent paper published by the 
American Society for Engineering 
Education noted that the number of female engineering students is currently 
less than 18 percent, and the number 
of women in engineering, computer 
science and mathematical-related jobs 
is less than 13 percent. Additionally, 
in K through 12 education, boys are 
six more times likely than girls to 
have taken higher-level engineering, 
math and science courses. However, 
the SISTERS in Science program could 
potentially change that.
Mandy Bratton, the principal 
investigator of the SISTERS in 
Science program and the executive 
director of the Global TIES-Teams in 
Engineering Service from the Jacobs 
School of Engineering, told the UCSD 
Guardian that the program hopes to 
generate enthusiasm for science and 
engineering amongst girls. 
“We hope the engaging 
curriculum and the interaction 
with female scientists, engineers 
and undergraduates will ignite their 
interest in careers in science and 
engineering in which women continue 
to be underrepresented, ” Bratton said. 
“We want the girls to learn that being a scientist or an engineer isn’t easy, but 
it is important and fun and well within 
their reach. ”
This program was established 
from a close partnership with the 
Encinitas Union School District 
and Global TIES. Global TIES is an 
engineering program from the Jacobs 
School of Engineering that serves a 
humanitarian purpose of allowing 
students to apply their engineering 
skills in a real-world setting by working 
for not-for-profit organizations 
in developing countries and San 
Diego. Jan Kleissl, the co-principal 
investigator of the SISTERS in Science 
program and an associate professor 
of environmental engineering at 
UCSD, advised a Global TIES team 
that instructed classes in science and 
engineering at the elementary schools 
from 2009 to 2014. 
The SISTERS program has more 
than 130 girls from the 5th and 6th 
grades enrolled in it. More than 20 
percent of the students from these 
schools are below the poverty line.
Bratton explained that this program is expected to be transformational and 
encouraging for the students.
 “We want this program to make 
a profound and lasting difference in 
these girls’ lives, ” Bratton said.
Nancy Jones, administrator for 
support services for Encinitas Union 
School District, also expressed her 
support for the program.
“We want them to be confident 
problem solvers who know how to 
work with others. We want them to 
love science, ” Jones said. “We want 
them to have a desire to make a 
difference in their community and in 
the world. ”
 The SISTERS in Science program 
at the elementary schools in Encinitas 
is currently an after-school activity 
that is part of a girls-only after school 
program that is led by UCSD students. 
A three-year grant of $800,000 from 
the National Science Foundation is 
funding the program.EDUCATION
Called SISTERS in Science, the joint program teaches science and engineering to girls at Encinitas elementary schools.
B Y  omkar  mahajan
Contributing Writer
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGsee more atomkar mahajan  omahajan@ucsd.edu readers can contactProgram Seeks to Dispel Gender Imbalances in STEM Fields
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and 
Thursdays during the academic year by UCSD students 
and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this 
newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, 
without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2015, all 
rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible 
for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The 
views expressed herein do not necessarily represent 
the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of 
California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian 
is funded by advertising.Sun God eats failing students.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.orgBusiness Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Aleksandra Konstantinovic
Andrew E. Huang  
Taylor Sanderson
Tina Butoiu
Kriti Sarin
Charu Mehra
Cassia Pollock
Marcus Thuillier
John Story
Teiko Yakobson
Jacqueline Kim
Kyle Somers
Nilu Karimi
Siddharth Atre
Jonathan Gao
Joselynn Ordaz
Sherman Aline
Elyse Yang
Annie Liu
Rosina Garcia
Jennifer Grundman
Laura Chow
Vincent PhamEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
  
Associate News Editor
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Social Media Coordinator
Training and Development
Page Layout
Charu Mehra
Distribution
Christopher Graves, Josef Goodyear
Copy Readers
Andrew Chao, Caroline Lee, Sage Schubert-Christian,
 Marissa Barber, Heejung Lim
Editorial Assistants
Shelby Newallis, Karly Nisson, Mario Attie, Katie Pottsbusiness manager, told the Guardian 
that SEDS@UCSD is also working on 
two other projects.
“We have recently started a new 
project called MoonShot Alpha which 
is an interuniversity team to design, 
build and land a lunar lander on the 
moon, ” Charrier commented. “We are 
also building a CubeSat [miniaturized satellite] that will serve as the lander’s 
communications array in lunar orbit. ”
He added that students who are 
interested in joining SEDS@UCSD can 
apply online by sending an email to 
seds.ucsd@gmail.com.
“We are always looking for those 
who are driven to take on big challenges 
and who are willing to learn, ” Charrier 
said.
The Kickstarter campaign generated over $7,000 in contributions 
during the first day of its launch 
and will be open to donations for 
the next month. The team aims to 
launch the liquid-fueled Vulcan-I 
rocket at the annual Intercollegiate 
Rocket Engineering Competition in 
Utah this June. accelerate the implementation of the 
Middle Class Scholarship Act. This act 
is intended to help families hoping to 
attend a UC or CSU campus by cutting 
tuition by 40 percent for families 
making less than $100,000 a year and 
by 10 percent for those making less 
than $150,000 a year.
Moreover, UCSA sought continued 
investment and growth of Cal Grant 
A and B programs as well as asking 
the state to provide start-up costs of 
$4.7 million for the DREAM Loan 
program.
Aside from lobbying elected 
officials, UCSA hoped that this year’s conference would develop students’ 
lobbying skills and raise awareness 
of pertinent issues that affect all UC 
students.
“With the conference over, we 
definitely hope that the attendees 
feel empowered enough to become 
strong student activists for our 
university, ” Kuoch-Seng said. 
“We hope that students use the 
knowledge that they have gained 
from our conference and utilize it in 
the most productive way possible. ”
Although Napolitano’s plans for 
increased tuition have been postponed 
until after summer session, Fabella 
encourages students to fight the possible hike in costs by reaching 
out to their state representatives and 
having their voices heard.
“UCSD students can also know 
that they are empowered with ways to 
combat the tuition hike and any other 
[University of California]-wide issues, 
through the external office, through 
lobbying opportunities, through 
campuswide organizing and having 
support and advocacy through their 
A.S. representatives, ” Fabella said.N EWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 23, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
Looking for the 
New Business 
Column?
Now posted every Wednesday 
night, after the A.S. Council 
meeting, online.
ucsdguardian.orgANDREW CHAO AVCHAO@ucsd.edu readers can contact
KRITI  SARIN  KSARIN@ucsd.edu readers can contactJACKY TO  j6to@ucsd.edu readers can contact
UCSA Hopes Conference Will Encourage Attendees to Pursue Activism
▶ LOBBY ,  from page 1
Future Projects Include a Lunar Lander and a Miniature Satellite
▶ VULCAN,  from page 1Jaconetta, who organized the event 
with Lyons, thinks that this event is 
important because there is an unfortu -
nate disconnect in the LGBT commu -
nity between the elders and the youth.
“There’s not a lot of connection 
between the generations in the LGBT 
community and I think that’s very 
counterintuitive to progress, ” Jaconetta 
said. “We should [learn from] the older 
generation’s failings and triumphs to 
really understand how we can progress 
and how we can impact our future in a 
positive way. ” The professors also provided their 
perspectives on what it is like to be 
“out” in the professional world, which 
Jaconetta finds to be a large concern as 
he moves forward in his career.
“It’s very difficult and tough for 
me when I think about being out in 
the professional realm, ” Jaconetta said. 
“I personally have a lot of questions 
for people who are currently out in 
the professional realm and what their 
experiences have been in coming out. ”
On Tuesday, the LGBT commu -
nity collectively traveled to and painted 
over the murals at UCSD’s Graffiti Art Park. They then hosted a game show at 
Sixth College Lodge, testing students’ 
knowledge about LGBTQIA history 
and current events. 
The LGBT Resource Center will 
continue to hold many more events 
throughout the week, such as an 
LGBTQIA graduate student game 
day today, a keynote speech by poet 
and activist Leah Lakshmi Piepzna-
Samarasinha on Friday and a drag 
show finale on Saturday.Center Aims to Bridge Generational Gap Within LGBT Community
▶ LGBT,  from page 14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 23, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CHARU  MEHRA
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Another year, another A.S. Council budget 
crisis. It seems like just yesterday that 
student organizations were up in arms 
over budgeting shortfalls under the office of the 
previous VP Finance and Resources Sean O’Neal. 
The programming budget allocated toward funding 
campus organizations registered under the Center 
for Student Involvement had been exhausted by 
April 2014, placing events like cultural graduation 
ceremonies in jeopardy through no fault of their 
own. Needless to say, the public outcry was 
formidable and Council ultimately voted to transfer 
$60,000 from its own Mandated Reserves to make 
up for the shortfall. However, it appears they have 
failed to learn from past mistakes, as current VP 
Finance Igor Geyn announced early last week that 
A.S. Council’s programming allocations had again 
been exhausted, in effect tabling all further requests 
for the rest of this academic year.
This eerily similar predicament is especially 
surprising given that A.S. Council had set aside 
$430,000 specifically for student organization 
events, which was substantially more than last 
year. According to Geyn, the Office of Student 
Organizations received an unprecedented number 
of requests for over $747,000 in A.S. programming 
funding, compared to the previous year’s 439 
requests for $601,000. Although A.S. Council had 
been scrutinizing Funding Guide submissions more closely this year, Geyn attributes the recent spike in 
requests to outreach events that A.S. Council had 
been holding to educate student organizations on 
how to properly request programming funds. 
While the Editorial Board understands the 
difficulty of maintaining a balanced budget whilst 
also supporting as many campus orgs as possible, 
A.S. Council simply cannot let financial crises 
become the norm. We commend Geyn, AVP 
Tristan Britt and their respective office’s efforts to 
thoroughly document the situation and formulate 
creative, longer term solutions, but the fact remains 
that countless student orgs may not have the 
necessary funds to hold any further events this year 
without A.S. support. 
A.S. Council has thus far been unwilling to 
withdraw money from its Mandated Reserves. 
Those funds are carefully guarded in case of “rainy 
days, ” but when A.S. Council cannot fulfill one 
of its major responsibilities — to support UCSD 
student orgs — it’s hard to think of a more pressing 
emergency. Last year’s expenditures left the reserves 
depleted and Geyn understandably wary, although 
that only leaves AVP offices or college councils, 
all of which seem unlikely to be able to contribute 
much in the way of funding. Council members also 
recently shot down a suggestion to raise student 
activity fees to help bolster the floundering budget, 
an idea which would likely be met with pitchforks 
See FINANCES, page 5Fiscal Faux Pas
The Editorial Board weighs in on the sometimes questionable way that financial 
matters have been handled by A.S. Council in recent years. EDITORIALS
Aleksandra Konstantinovic
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Andrew E. Huang
MANAGING EDITOR
Taylor Sanderson
MANAGING EDITOR  
Charu Mehra
OPINION EDITOR
Cassia Pollock
ASSOCIATE OPINION EDITOR
Tina Butoiu
NEWS EDITOR
Kriti Sarin
ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITOR
Marcus Thuillier
SPORTS EDITOR
Kyle Somers
ASSOCIATE A&E EDITOR
The UCSD Guardian is published twice weekly at the 
University of California at San Diego. Contents © 2015. 
Views expressed herein represent the majority vote of the edi -
torial board and are not necessarily those of the UC Board of 
Regents, the ASUCSD or the members of the Guardian staff. EDITORIAL  BOARD
If you’re a freshman at UCSD, you never 
saw Graffiti Hall as a student. In three years, no 
one on campus will know of it, and, except for 
occasional alumni stories, it will be as if it never 
existed at all. Although Graffiti Hall held a lot of 
cultural value for certain campus groups, there 
are even more important histories that will be or 
have been forgotten due to the fact that colleges 
often lack institutional memory. Campus aware -
ness of certain events peaks after the initial inci -
dent but quickly fades into a distant afterthought. 
Students stop advocating for platforms of self-
expression and opportunities for funding when it 
seems as if such privileges were never granted.
For years, students have lamented UC budget 
cuts, but there is little acknowledgment of the fact 
that these alleged funding decreases have been 
going on for decades without any substantial 
improvements. Every time referendums involving 
student fees are proposed, this expense is framed 
as a one-time deal. Students are easily placated 
by the notion that they’re the only ones respon -
sible for covering such an expense instead of demanding more state funding. The student 
protests led against the UC Board of Regents 
in 2010 over an 8-percent tuition hike eerily 
reflect the recent tuition hike. If students had 
more access to this knowledge, they would like -
ly be less complacent when their preferences 
and needs were ignored this year.
In another example, students have continued 
to deal with transportation referendums since the 
quarterly increase of approximately $50 in student 
fees for 2014–15 with a 1.5 percent-annual increase 
passed smoothly without public outcry. Every day, 
students sit at the San Diego Metropolitan Transit 
System bus stops throughout La Jolla, with lines 
spreading from the bench to intersections down 
the street. Undergraduates often have to wait 20 to 
30 minutes just to catch a ride to class. Little does 
the general population ever recall that, as recently 
as 2012, the Nobel/Arriba shuttle actually existed 
as two separate buses. Instead, students continue to 
pay more money for fewer buses.
As a result of our lack of memory, students 
are satisfied by buses that are overcrowded, over -heated and often smell like paint chemicals or 
bodily fumes. The nicest bus drivers try to cram 
as many people into each bus as possible because 
that is the standard of kindness students have 
come to appreciate. The case seems to be that 
we, as students, accept the amount of buses we 
believe that we deserve and the riding conditions 
which come with that.
There are other problems and shortcom -
ings that the university effectively normalizes to 
pacify student interest, such as converting double 
rooms into triples all over campus, changing 
Sun God Festival from an all-campus event to a 
crammed festival on RIMAC Field and continual 
efforts from the UC Regents to muffle student 
protests. Instead, student organizations should 
prioritize the ability of alumni to pass down 
valuable information about past events so that 
history does not always end up repeating itself. 
Unless student bodies on this campus make an 
effort to develop a solid collective memory, the 
power in this academic institution will remain 
out of our hands.Lack of  Institutional Memory Will Continue to Haunt UCSDLet’s start this week’s column 
with a quiz. How many years 
of schooling, on a global aver -
age, have women who are 25 years 
old had? Hint: When the Sweden-
based Gapminder Foundation asked 
Americans, 24 percent said three 
years, and 52 percent said five years. 
The real answer is much longer: seven 
years. In comparison, the answer for 
males is eight years.
This question came from 
Gapminder’s Ignorance Project, which 
strives to teach citizens about their 
lack of knowledge. As Hans Rosling, 
the founder of this organization, says, 
“How can you fix the issue when you 
don’t even know what the real prob -
lem is?” When it comes to education, 
as the Ignorance Project points out, 
girls are indeed risking their lives 
to go to school. Just think of Malala 
Y ousafzai — a Pakistani activist who 
was shot by a gunman for attending 
school where the local Taliban banned 
schooling for girls. No, getting girls 
to school isn’t the big issue any more. 
The big issue is what comes after. 
Many girls fight for their right to a 
secondary education, only to end up 
married young or otherwise unable to 
go to college. 
Why do we bring this up? Well, 
last week marked an anniversary for 
events closely related to education and 
women’s rights in two different coun -
tries where progress in either regard is 
lacking. In Nigeria, last week marked 
one year since terrorist group Boko 
Haram kidnapped 276 school girls 
from the town of Chibok. This atroc -
ity sparked a global digital campaign 
called “Bring Back Our Girls. ”
Although some blame the 
Nigerian government for not bringing 
back the girls despite the resources 
made available to them, we say, how 
could they? The real issue lies not in 
finding the location of the girls but, 
rather, dealing with the issues of why 
Boko Haram exists in the first place. 
It’s a mix of economic and politi -
cal instability that allowed such an 
extremist group to form. There is no 
safety or security for girls and their 
education in Nigeria until the unrest 
that victimizes them is quelled.
In the U.S. last week, we were 
similarly reminded about an issue that 
educated women in our country face: 
unequal pay. While many know that 
the average woman earns 78 cents to a 
man’s dollar, the reasons as to why are 
lesser known. Unequal pays does not 
stem solely from one reason but from 
how companies treat families, how 
women are taught to negotiate and 
from popular culture, in general.
Education is the basis for both 
sociopolitical independence and eco -
nomic equality — two factors that 
lead to immeasurable improvement 
for women throughout the world. 
Without prioritizing the education 
of girls, we’re not making the right 
strides to the latter two goals.
The fact of the matter is that 
when we are dealing with complex 
issues, it’s always important to 
uncover our ignorance first. Last 
week, we were confronted with the 
aftermath of two issues that not 
only still exist but that put women’s 
rights and education at risk. Solving 
either one is not a matter of putting 
Band-Aids on any one issue but on 
creating greater understanding in 
general first.Prioritize
Education, 
No Women 
Left Behind  
Marcus thuillier//
A y a t amin 
opinion@ucsdguardian.orgAcross the globe
OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 23, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
Returned Peace Corps Volunteer Diana Gomez will
discuss how to strengthen your resume and select an
assignment that fits your skills. You will also learn
valuable tips to guide you through the application process.Discover the Benefits  
of Peace Corps Service
Application Workshop  
University of California - San Diego
Friday, April 24
12 to 2 p.m.
Career Services Center
Horizon Room 
 
855.855.1961 | www.peacecorps.govLife is calling. How far will you go?LA JOLLA INSTITUTE NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
DRAFT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT
OUTPATIENT PAVILION
Wednesday, May 20, 2015 at 6:00 p.m.
UCSD The Ida and Cecil Green Faculty ClubThe University of California, San Diego (UCSD) is the lead agency for the Outpa-
tient Pavilion (OPP) project. The proposed OPP would consist of a three-story 
facility with a basement that would house hospital-licensed services to support the 
existing Thornton Hospital and Jacobs Medical Center.  The OPP would include 
approximately 156,000 gross square feet (GSF) of new construction, including 
operating rooms, outpatient care bays, clinical facilities, patient intake facilities, staff 
support spaces, and mechanical/electrical facilities. The proposed OPP would 
provide pain management, urology, orthopedics, spine, sports medicine, and breast 
clinics. In addition, the proposed project would provide outpatient, orthopedic and 
breast imaging, as well as rehabilitation facilities.
The overall limits of work for the proposed project encompass approximately 4.1 
acres on the east campus Health Sciences Neighborhood. This project site includes 
the project development area and the construction staging area. The project site is 
largely developed with a surface parking lot (Campus Lot P-751).  Access to the 
project site would be available from Campus Point Drive and Medical Center Drive.  
The proposed project would also include landscape and hardscape areas; a OPP 
Plaza, an extension of Health Sciences Walk, south meadow/therapy garden, and 
Medical Center Drive south entry (a semi-private entrance to the OPP Building for 
all patients, including athletic physical therapy).  The project would seek to achieve 
Leadership in Energy Efficient Design (LEED) Silver rating from the USGBC.  A 
public hearing to take public comment on the Draft EIR will be held at the time and 
place described below.
Enter the UCSD Campus via Muir College Drive and follow the signs to the 
Faculty Club parking lot P206.  Park in spaces marked “Reserved for Faculty 
Club”.  Enter the building on the west side and ask the receptionist for a parking 
pass to place on your car dashboard. The hearing will be held in the Faculty 
Club’s Seuss Library. Directions can be found at
http://facclub.ucsd.edu/mod_AboutUs/Directions.aspx 
Written and oral statements from interested persons or groups will be accepted at 
the hearing for entry into the administrative record.  A transcript of the hearing 
will be included in the Final EIR.  Copies of the Draft EIR may be viewed at: 
http://physicalplanning.ucsd.edu/environmental/pub_notice.html
or by contacting the UCSD Physical & Community Planning Office, 9500 Gilman 
Drive,  La Jolla, CA  92093-0074, (858) 534-5352.  Public review of the Draft EIR 
will extend from April 16 to June 1, 2015.  Any comments regarding the accuracy 
of the project EIR should be directed to the UCSD Physical & Community 
Planning Office at the above address.YOUR
NEWS
NOW!
Registration for SPRING Qtr is NOW open!
Register online at 
as.ucsd.edu/saferides
A.S. Safe Rides allows register ed un dergradua te 
studen ts to  get 3  FREE rides per quarter .
Studen ts must register  at lea st 24 hours
prior t o their first ride.  A.S. Safe Rides 
asucsd asucsdGOT ISSUES?
SEND YOUR 
LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
and torches after the other fee 
increases this year.
The finance office cannot tackle 
the shortfall alone. We will need 
all members of A.S. Council to 
work with one another to think of 
immediate fiscal actions that can 
be taken. If Council is unwilling or 
unable to contribute any further 
allocations this year, it must devise 
other alternatives to make sure that 
student orgs are not left to fend for 
themselves. It’s fair to say that we who 
pay such high student fees deserve 
to have a suitable budget for events. 
Finding out what can be cut will be an 
unpleasant but necessary reality; may 
we suggest taking a second look at the $22,500 quarterly pancake breakfasts? 
And perhaps college councils 
should take a more proactive role 
in funding large events that their 
respective constituents could stand 
to benefit from. 
We also hope that the future 
finance controller will continue to 
work more openly with the Student 
Life Business Services Office to ensure 
that clerical errors, such as the one 
that overlooked $80,000 in additional 
money until recently, will not happen 
again. Geyn believes there’s not 
much that sum would have been 
able to do, but issues like these imply 
a disconnect between our student 
leaders and their administrative 
counterparts. We consider it fortunate 
that Geyn was able to catch the error. Whether the position is elected or 
appointed, we hope Geyn imparts 
upon his successor the importance 
of clear communication and cutting 
down on unnecessary expenditures. 
If president-elect Dominick 
Suvonnasupa follows through with 
his plans to implement an research 
and development office, this will 
also present a valuable opportunity 
to provide an interdepartmental 
approach to balancing the future 
budget.
If A.S. Council is to promise 
increased support of its campus 
organizations and constituents, 
a strong and flexible budget is a 
necessary prerequisite to avoid 
subsequent disappointment and 
irritation from students. $80k of  Misplaced Funds Is Just One Example of  Financial Mishaps
▶ FINANCES,  from page 4
FUNGLY  By Kyle Trujillo WEEKENDARTS   |   FOOD & DRINK   |   LIVING   |   FILM  &  TV   |   MUSIC   |   THINGS  TO  DO
A&E EDITOR // 
JACQUELINE KIM 
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // 
NILU KARIMI  
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
There has never been a play 
with so much Barbra Strei -
sand, while lacking in actual 
Barbra Streisand. In fact, she has 
become such an icon that Jonathan 
Tolins wrote a play — half day -
dream, half commentary — about 
her basement. But admittedly, 
it is an extraordinary basement. 
Early in the play, you are warned 
that it is indeed fiction. This is nec -
essary to understand the absurdity 
of the premise. The play takes place 
under Barbra Streisand’s mansion 
in Malibu, the home of an under -
ground Victorian-style shopping 
mall. In her cellar, she has built Bee’s 
Doll Shop, an antique clothing store, 
a Gift Shoppe and a frozen yogurt 
machine — all documented and fully 
photographed in her book “My Pas -
sion for Design. ” That’s the real part. 
Playwright Tolins was fascinat -
ed by the idea of this underground 
mall and asked, “What if Babs hired someone to work there?” This is 
where the play becomes fiction. 
Alex More (David Turner), an 
actor whose last job was mayor of 
Disneyland’s ToonTown, is hired 
to work in the private mall. Alex 
is insecure and often starstruck as 
he begins his new and completely 
unique profession. The play is his 
recounting of a tentative friend -
ship with the diva and opens dis -
cussions on what it means to be a 
celebrity and themes of obsession. 
Turner is the star of the show — 
the only star actually. For 105 min -
utes, he alone holds the audience’s 
attention on the circular stage. But 
without his performance, the bi -
zarre premise would completely 
collapse. He not only plays Alex, 
but also acts as Barbra Streisand, 
Streisand’s house manager Sharon, 
Alex’s boyfriend Barry and James 
Brolin, Barbra’s husband. At the be -
ginning, Turner, out of character, says he doesn’t do impressions or 
voices, he just is Barbra. It’s a one-
man show, but with the clever script 
and nuanced acting, it might as well 
be fully casted. From his posture 
to the Brooklyn accent, Turner’s 
Barbra is spot-on and hilarious. 
His portrayal of Barry, Alex’s ex -
travagant boyfriend, is intense and 
eccentric while showing off an im -
mense acting range. The transitions 
from character to character, though 
fast-paced, are made smooth and 
obvious by his subtle changes in 
voice, bearing, tone and expression.  
To highlight Turner’s flair for the 
comedic and dramatic, the script 
is filled with clever lines and apho -
risms. Turner accentuates Tolins’ 
talent for making the absurd seem 
real and hides any weak parts of the 
script. It is, in many ways, a gay ver -
sion of “Waiting for Godot, ” in which 
Godot actually shows up in the 
form of Barbra Streisand. Although 
Turner is alone on stage through -
out the play, the audience feels the 
stretches of loneliness when Alex is 
left in the basement. After Barbra 
fails to show up for days, Alex begins 
to question the sheer preposterous -
ness of his job and any chance of a 
relationship with the infamous diva. 
Throughout the play, Tolins cleverly and respectfully treats his 
characterization of the real Barbra 
Streisand. Although she is the butt 
of some jokes and subject to some 
criticism, he portrays her simply and 
compassionately as a woman who 
does her best to be perfect. How -
ever, it is chock-full of allusions and 
references to actors, actresses, Strei -
sand’s ex-husbands and movies from 
50 years ago that will go over many 
people’s heads. Sometimes, you only 
know to laugh because the elderly 
woman, who bought Streisand re -
cords before she was famous and 
mainstream, next to you is chuckling. 
To fully appreciate the jokes, brush 
up on your Barbra Streisand history. 
 By the end of the play, it is hard 
to make a judgement on Streisand 
for her eccentricity or her divine 
celebrity. Tolins does his best to 
make all the dialogue seem com -
pletely genuine and succeeds for 
most of the play. The greatest odd -
ity of the play arises from the fact 
that, though absurd, the premise 
is also completely plausible due to 
the strange nature of celebrities, 
from whom the peculiar is expected.
—    allison  kubo
staff WRITErDirected by  Ron Lagomarsino
Written by Jonathan Tolins
Runs  April 9 to May 10
Location The Old GlobeHighly divisive, “Lost River” excels as an exercise in 
Gosling’s ambition and creativity, not his indulgence.PHOTO USED WITH PERMISSION FROM JIM COX VIA THE OLD GLOBEPLA Y   REVIEW
Buyer  and  Cellar Foreign 
Boys and 
the Art of  
Flirting
Shelb y  New allis 
snew alli@ucsd.eduVino  &  visas
Since practically the moment I 
arrived in Italy, my friends and family 
have been asking me, “So have you 
met any cute Italian boys yet?” I guess 
it’s a natural and fully-warranted 
inquiry, given that I’m studying abroad 
in one of the most stereotypically 
romantic countries on Earth. 
Don’t worry, folks, there’s no 
bubble to break here; the stereotype 
is true — romance is in the air. It’s 
also on the streets, in the piazzas and 
loitering in front of my apartment 
building. Let’s just say that romance 
comes in many forms, but the most 
noticeable is in the form of public 
displays of affection. This handy PDA 
acronym exists in our Anglo-Saxon 
culture because kissing in public is 
less socially acceptable. And while I 
thought PDA was mainstream all over 
the world, it turns out that PDA lacks 
a direct translation in just about any 
of the Romantic languages because 
the concept of not outright showing 
love and affection when you feel it is 
foreign to people. In countries like 
France, Italy and Spain, kissing and/or 
full-on making out is not considered 
to be crude or not for children’s eyes; 
it’s totally normal.
Coming from an average, modest 
American family, all of the touchy-
feely-ness kind of grossed me out at 
first. I didn’t really understand why 
they couldn’t save all that affection 
for behind closed doors or at least 
hold off until after they’ d made it 
through the check-out line at the 
market. It took me a long time to 
get used to the lack of proximity 
awareness that Europeans have — 
something that many Americans so 
greatly value and expect. 
Slowly but surely I started letting 
people come into my “hula hoop” 
space, as my mom used to call it. The 
first step was learning the double-
cheek kiss and then, eventually, 
before I knew it, I too was displaying 
affection publicly. I felt like the girls 
in the movies, flirting in Italian and 
being charmed by broken English, like 
the time when an Italian told me my 
eyes were beautiful because they’re 
the color of hazelnuts — “nocciola 
come Nutella” (hazelnut like Nutella). 
I think he was trying to say my eyes 
are beautiful because they’re hazel, 
but I’ve learned that sometimes there’s 
no point in trying to find a literal 
translation for things because some 
things just don’t translate well. I don’t 
get offended or creeped out when 
someone compares me to food or 
something else that sounds awkward 
in English; I just smile, say “thank 
you” and assess whether or not I need 
to walk away.
Traveling and meeting people 
from all over has made me realize 
that I love the thrill of meeting a 
person and not knowing which 
language they speak. It’s also 
made me realize how lucky I am 
to speak English because it’s really 
the common tongue of travelers. 
At the same time, speaking only in 
English has become a bit dull for 
me, and I’ve learned that I love the 
challenge of texting and conversing 
in Italian. It’s really empowering 
to get out what you want to say in 
another language — something that 
I’m definitely going to miss when I 
get home.
I guess what I’ve learned is that, 
at the end of the day, it’s the human 
connection that matters. Flirting 
with a foreigner is fun, but if there’s 
no connection, it doesn’t matter 
what language the other speaks. 
And if it’s nothing more than just 
a little international curiosity, 
play the California card. From my 
experience, it almost always works.Earl’s Market Chicken Fajitas BY MONICA MCGILL // STAFF WRITER RECIPE
Serving size: 4
Preparation time:
 10 minutes
Cooking time:  15 minutes 
Ingredients:
4 bell peppers (any col -
or) 
1 package chicken breast 
1 large yellow onion  
6 flour tortillas 
1 bag Mexican cheese, 
shredded    
1 cup sour cream  
1 cup guacamole 
Directions:
1. Cut the chicken, onion 
and peppers into 1/4-inch 
strips, making sure that 
you cut the onion length -wise (from root to tip) and 
remove the seeds from the 
peppers. 
2. Add the peppers, chick -
en and onion to the pan 
and cook at a medium 
heat.
3. As the peppers and 
chicken cook, warm the 
tortillas in a separate pan.
4. When the chicken is ful -
ly cooked and the peppers 
are beginning to blacken, 
remove the pan from heat.
5. Serve immediately with 
tortillas, cheese, sour 
cream and guacamole.
*All ingredients pur -
chased at Earl Warren 
College’s Earl’s market.
 PHOTO COURTESY OF STEVEN PEREZWEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 23, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
CE-4136
Reverse Transfer Campaign: Ad Fem-A Version E 
n/a 
5”w x 8”h n/a4C newsprint
Guardian (UCSD)czE
Transferability of credit is at the discretion of the receiving institution. It is the student’s responsibility to confirm whether or not 
credits earned at University of Phoenix will be accepted by another institution of the student’s choice. Individual courses are not eligible for federal financial aid. While widely available, not all courses are available in all locations or in both online and on-campus formats. Please check with a University Enrollment Representative. The University’s Central Administration is located at 1625 W. Fountainhead Pkwy., Tempe, AZ 85282. Online Campus: 3157 E. Elwood St., Phoenix, AZ 85034.
© 2015 University of Phoenix, Inc. All rights reserved.  |  CE-4136
Watch how easy it is at 
phoenix.edu/transfercredits.   
Learn more at 866-857-5020.Problem:  
You can’t get the courses  
you need at your own school.
Solution:  
Take ours online. Transfer the credits. 
Graduate on time.
CE-4136_E_5x8_Fem-A_r4.indd   1 3/6/15   4:09 PM
COME ONE, COME ALL, COME SHOP!
IT’S NEXT
SUNDAY!
GEAR UP FOR THE GREATEST 
FESTIVAL ON EARTH!
MON - FRI • LIBARY WALK • 10am-3pm
to.ucsd.edu • sgf.ucsd.edu
SUNDAY, MAY 3, 2015
ARE YOU READY?
In August 2013, Rolling Stone’s 
cover featured Dzhokhar Tsar -
naev. There he was, looking 
straight at us with his piercing, haunt -
ing eyes. His untidy hair and somber 
expression evoked the type of glamour 
we have come to adore in celebrities, 
and the image is so captivating that 
for a moment — an instant, maybe — 
we forget that he is the son-of-a-bitch 
responsible for the Boston Marathon 
bombings. “True Story, ” directed by 
newcomer Rupert Goold, examines 
the psychological consequences of this type of glamorization: What price, if 
any, does the writer pay when portray -
ing a sick criminal as a problematic rock 
star? And what narrative, if any, can 
the writer invoke to justify that deed?
The film stars James Franco as 
Christian Longo, a narcissistic and 
handsome detainee charged with the 
murder of his wife and children. When 
captured in a small town in Mexico, the 
authorities learn he’s been hiding under 
the name of Michael Finkel. As it turns 
out, the real Michael Finkel (Jonah 
Hill), a promising reporter for the New Y ork Times, has just been fired for ma -
nipulating information for a cover sto -
ry. That is, Finkel’s name is in tatters at 
the same time Longo decides to adopt 
it as his own. This connection is what 
sets the film in motion. Finkel hears 
that Longo was living under his name, 
and far from freaking out, he loves it — 
he absolutely loves it. Soon enough we 
see them conversing in a prison cell: 
the nerdy, obsessive reporter and the 
seductive, profound son-of-a-bitch. 
The interactions between Longo 
and Finkel are always a ferocious game 
of chess, except that Longo is the only 
one playing. When an excited Finkel 
reveals his plan of writing a book on 
Longo’s life, we know full well whose 
idea it really was. Finkel’s attempts 
at rationalizing both his friendship 
and, more importantly, the book he’s 
writing are the center of “True Story. ” 
“Why do you want to tell the story of a murderer?” Finkel’s fi -
ance (Felicity Jones) asks him. “Ev -
eryone deserves to have their story 
told, ” he answers with self-imposed 
seriousness. The response is laugh -
able. He needs to save his career. He 
needs a story he can sell. Although 
Goold’s script is too explicit about 
this point, Hill’s subtle acting and 
Marco Beltrami’s (“The Hurt Lock -
er”) score, render Finkel’s inner apo -
logia an amusing event to witness. 
This is reflective of the film in 
general. “True Story” compensates 
for its flawed script with power -
ful performances and a potent cin -
ematic tone. The two scenes between 
Jones’ character and Longo linger in 
our head way after the credits roll. 
Franco’s performance is charged 
with irony and self-consciousness. 
In a brilliant moment, Longo looks 
at Finkel and asks, “Did you do it?” The question is both disturbing and 
comical, an inversion of roles that 
is as somber as it is funny. Longo 
treats his own culpability in the 
same irreverent way. He knows that 
everyone knows — everyone except 
Finkel. Or maybe he does. Maybe 
he does and decides to ignore it. 
Maybe Finkel has forgotten, amid 
Longo’s affective smiles and care -
fully crafted words, the fact that he 
is in front of a child-murderer. Or 
then again, maybe Finkel’s desire 
to resurrect his career makes him 
willing to forgive even the most 
heinous crimes. The film’s continu -
ous rumination of these possibili -
ties is what makes it memorable.
—    Mario  A ttie
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTFILM   REVIEW
Directed by  Rupert Goold
Starring   James Franco, Jonah Hill, Felicity Jones
Rated R
Release Date April 17Goold’s directorial debut is a poignant moral fable 
about deception and the insides of journalism.TRUE  STOR YPHOTO COURTESY OF ACESHOWBIZ8     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 23, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
Novelist and screenwriter 
Alex Garland is not a man 
of small victories. His works 
are all-or-nothing meditations of 
the elemental. From cosmic extinc -
tion (“Sunshine”) to human mortality 
(“Never Let Me Go”), the stakes are al -
ways high. It comes as no surprise that 
Garland, directing for the first time, 
has only turned up the heat. His debut 
feature, “Ex Machina” , is an intellectual 
assault on our sexuality, our conscious -
ness and the consciousness of our 
sexuality (or as Oscar Isaac’s character would put it, the “sexuality of our con -
sciousness”). Like all great films, how -
ever, its artistry lies in the “how” more 
than in the “what. ” Garland’s delicate 
but striking visuals soften the heavi -
ness of the film’s ideas, dressing their 
scientific language in poetic clothes. 
The film entertains with its serious -
ness but also with its daring humor. 
Starting with its clever tagline (“What 
happens to me if I fail your test?”) all 
the way to its momentous ending, 
“Ex Machina” is a total work of art.
The film follows Caleb (Domhnall Gleeson), a young and brilliant pro -
grammer as he travels to the moun -
tains to meet Nathan (Oscar Isaac), the 
creator and owner of a giant Google-
like company of the near future. Ca -
leb gets the golden text to participate 
in an unknown experiment that the 
secluded Nathan is secretly preparing 
(yes, the similarities with “Charlie and 
the Chocolate Factory” are uncanny). 
Shortly after, Caleb learns that he is 
the human component of a Turing 
Test. His role is to decide if Ava (Alicia 
Vikander), Nathan’s intelligent — and 
smokin’ hot — android has true hu -
man consciousness. Caleb has to test if 
Ava actually feels, desires, intends … or 
just behaves as if she does. Of course, 
we know that such a test is impossible 
— we can ask the same question about 
other people with no apparent way of 
arriving at a conclusive answer. But if 
we know this, of course Nathan knows it too. What, then, is he really testing? 
To reveal more about the plot would 
be a crime. It is enough to say that 
Garland plays with our expectations 
as a happy baby plays with his toys.
Films about artificial consciousness 
and sexualized female robots are many. 
“Ex Machina” follows “Her” in its at -
tempts to introduce a sexual dimension 
into the question of consciousness. Is 
sexuality a precondition for conscious -
ness? Is the latter an emergent prop -
erty of the former? “Why did you give 
her sexuality?” Caleb asks confusedly. 
Nathan theorizes that we have no ex -
amples of consciousness — human or 
animal — without a sexual component. 
“ And to answer your real question, ” he 
retorts with a smile, “Y es, she can fuck 
… you can screw her, and she’ll enjoy 
it. ” Just like that, we move far from the 
realm of “Her” and closer to some -
thing like “Fatal Attraction. ” The film sheds its skin contentiously, evolving 
from a sci-fi thriller, to a prison movie, 
to a romantic drama; like a snake, it 
grabs your neck and never lets you go.
“Ex Machina” forms a highly com -
plex puzzle with few pieces. Garland 
constructs his ambitious tale with 
four characters. The result is an in -
terplay of intimacy and claustropho -
bia that adds an eerie atmosphere to 
every bit of dialogue. Vikander’s Ava 
is especially fascinating. She embod -
ies a seductive woman without ever 
losing her robotic nature. She is not 
human, but she reflects all that is hu -
man in us. And this is the film’s final 
triumph — it will force you to look at a 
mirror and ask: Who the fuck are you? 
—    Mario A ttie 
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTFILM   REVIEW
Directed by  Alex Garland
Starring   Domhnall Gleeson, Oscar Isaac, Alicia Vikander, Sonoya Mizuno
Rated R
Release Date April 10Garland blends sexuality with machine conscious -
ness in his brilliant, complex instant sci-fi classic.EX  MACHINAPHOTO USED WITH PERMISSION FROM A24 FILMSWEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 23, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
SIRENS
by  THE  WEEPIES
Release Date April 28
Bostonian band re-emerges as both lovers and 
fighters in their romantic, upbeat album.ALBUM   REVIEW
It’s official: The Weepies can do 
anything. Change Mandy Moore’s 
teeny-bopper image into that of a 
thoughtful folkie just by writing her a 
few songs? Juggle an international tour 
and raise three young kids at the same 
time? Battle cancer and write their 
longest album to date? Check, check, 
check.
The full-length in question, of 
course, is “Sirens, ” written while the 
married duo, Deb Talan and Steve Tan -
nen, struggled through Talan’s breast 
cancer diagnosis. Much like their pre -
vious records, this new LP is full of 
charming lyrics, addicting acoustic 
guitar riffs and the couple’s comple -
mentary quivery vocals. But every 
track on “Sirens” is punctuated with 
some deeper, inexplicable feeling, un -
doubtedly influenced by Talan’s health 
battles.
In fact, much of the album seems 
to implicitly chronicle the stresses and 
recovery the couple has faced in their 
personal life. Opener “River From the 
Sky” plays out as a straight-up heart -
breaker of a song, with its keenly pro -
duced sound and minor chords evok -
ing a sense of melancholic despair 
worthy of the band’s name. Y et the 
duo’s lyrics prove that there is more 
behind this love song: Lines like “Life 
is like a waterfall/ Y ou have fallen like 
a doll/ Never think of me at all/ There 
isn’t time” are hauntingly delivered 
with Tannen and Talan’s echoing vo -
cals. But the band doesn’t wallow for long, picking up the tempo with the 
hopeful “Learning to Fly, ” in which Ta -
lan’s gentle, soaring vocals optimistical -
ly relate her journey toward remission: 
“Learning to fly/ But I ain’t got wings/ 
Coming down/ Is the hardest thing. ”
Y et even a listener completely clue -
less about the context for “Sirens” 
would find the album relatable, partic -
ularly in the “wild-card” tracks thrown 
in that don’t seem to have anything to 
do with their particular trials and trib -
ulations. In these songs, we’re remind -
ed that this is a band that can banish all 
preconceptions of folk-pop as a staid 
genre by contributing their brand of 
flexible eclecticism to the music scene. 
“Never Let Y ou Down” simply floats as 
a love song with pop sensibility buoyed 
by catchy lyrics and riffs — in short, it’s 
The Weepies just doing their thing. But 
these musicians aren’t simply churning 
out same old, same old from their pre -
vious works; tunes like “Fancy Things, ” 
with its cinematic, sassier sound re -
plete with memorable drum rhythms, 
show their willingness to experiment 
with various sounds. It goes to show 
that this is an unstoppable band from 
who we can continue to expect more 
reassuring, empathetic and just plain 
fun tunes, because not even cancer can 
put the breaks on the music genius of 
The Weepies.
—    Jacqueline Kim
 A&E EDITOR
FOIL  DEER
by  SPEEDY  ORTIZ
Release Date  April 21
New England indie band rocks out on new album, pulls out the 
stops instrumentally but falls short of a truly memorable work.ALBUM   REVIEW
Speedy Ortiz is a band that 
understands that there’s no 
reason to re-invent the wheel. 
They can pick up The Pixies’ quirky 
tones or some of Sleater-Kinney’s 
vocal ideas without being derivative. 
In fact, on “Foil Deer, ” the Massa -
chusetts band has dug deeper into 
their own rowdy, colorful niche, not 
a common approach considering 
thousands of indie-rock bands are 
still trying to fit into the same hole 
that The Smiths carved out 20 years 
ago.
Even from the beginning of “Foil 
Deer, ” the guitar is driving the al -
bum, grinding out dissonant melo -
dies more often than holding down 
power chords in the background. 
Lead singer Sadie Dupuis actually 
follows the guitar most of the time, 
especially on “Raising the Skate” 
where the fuzz-pedal-powered mel -
ody leads Dupuis up and down her 
vocal range as she declares her own 
badassery with chest-beating au -
thenticity. And some of the best mo -
ments let the vocals go completely, 
like the brooding intro to the album, 
“Good Neck, ” or the wild solo at the 
end of “My Dead Girl. ”
In the same way that the guitar 
has a way of cutting through the 
music, the lyrics are consistently ra -
zor sharp and defiant. It’s consistent 
too, ranging from the abstract (“ And 
only in the shape of a bullet/ Am 
I ever the shape you see when you wake up dead”) to the more concrete 
thoughts (“We were the law school 
rejects/ So we quarreled at the bar 
instead”). There’s definitely poten -
tial for the music to get one-dimen -
sional in that way, but Speedy Ortiz 
mostly steers clear of that by refram -
ing their quirky, pissed-off senti -
ment differently in every song like a 
mental patient with severe multiple 
personality disorder.
Really the biggest shortcom -
ing of “Foil Deer” is that there isn’t 
anything else to say about it. “Re -
bellious, great guitar work and gen -
erally creative” completely covers everything in fewer words. Maybe 
next time they could go a bit further 
in any of those aspects and make 
something truly memorable. And 
they end up frustratingly close to 
that. As it is, “Foil Deer” is destined 
to wind up as an honorable mention 
on a few end-of-the-year lists and 
then be forgotten forever. Maybe 
Speedy Ortiz could write about how 
much they’ll resent that.
—    KYLE  SOMERS
ASSOCIATE A&E EDITOR
PHOTO COURTESY OF CONSEQUENCE OF SOUND10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 23, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
CLASSIFIEDS$
Guar dian Classi/f_ieds ar e FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifieds
BIKES
Black and Yellow Electra Beach Cruiser - 
$250. Black and yellow beach cruiser. Like 
brand new. Stored inside so minimal to 
no weather damage. I paid almost $400 
customizing it. Listing ID: 142165213 at 
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Rare 80s Vintage Specialized Sequoia 
56cm-Cr-Mo Dbl Butted Lugged - $550. 80s 
Vintage Specialized Sequoia 56m-Cromolly 
Double Butted Lugged Japanese steel road 
bicycle. Appears to be all original. This is 
a very rare and sought after bike that has 
a ride that can’t be duplicated with new 
modern bikes unless they are custom built. 
It is a used bike and has scuffs, but they are 
cosmetic. It appears to have been barely 
used since the drivetrain looks great still. 
Listing ID: 142165212 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Bike Rack - $25. Heavy duty Outback 
Grabber USA bike rack. Not a cheap rack. 
Saving a few bucks is not worth it. Your 
bikes are expensive so transport them safe -
ly. Comes with lock. Some rust on the hitch. 
Listing ID: 142165210 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
SPORTS
Wilson A2000-XLC Baseball Glove - $75. 12” 
left handed glove for right hand thrower. 
dual hinge. Snap action. Pro back. Grip-
tite pocket. Nylon stitched. Made in Japan. 
Superb condition. Listing ID: 140101344 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Surfboards Cheap Watertight - $40. 
Surfboard with glassed on fins. Each is 
$40. Surfboard with FCS fins is $30. Fins are 
extra $20. Watertight and ready for surf. The boards are between 5’-8” and 6’-4” . Leash is 
$10. Listing ID: 140101343 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
Salomon 150 63” / 160 cm Long Snowboard 
with LT15 Bindings - $70. The board is 
63” long and 11.5” wide. It feels like it’s 
made from fiberglass, but I’m not totally 
sure. Come by and take a look. Listing ID: 
140101341 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
FURNITURE
Jerome’s Love Seat - $650. Gorgeous, like 
new reclining love seat from Jerome’s. It 
has center console for storage and two cup 
holders.  It is in excellent condition. Both 
chairs recline via pull cords in the side of 
the chair. This piece retails for $850. Listing 
ID: 140941457 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
New Caribbean Nights Queen Mattress Set 
- $550. Foam encased unit. Provides full 
perimeter reinforcement with high density 
foam, making this mattress more durable. 
Pocketed coils. It allows each spring to 
quickly respond to the movement and 
contours of your body. Gel Visco Memory 
Foam. Material that reduces heat by pull -
ing it away from the body, so you can 
stay cooler at night. Listing ID: 141578588 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Wooden Entertainment Center / Shelving - 
$20. This unit has a large amount of storage 
and could be repurposed for a number of 
different needs. Please note that the large 
swing style door in the middle will need 
two small bolts to hold the hinge on bet -
ter. This unit measures 64” wide x 18” deep 
and stands 6’ tall. Listing ID: 140101288 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
t
your vision,
our missi on.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom a pparel to 
promote your student 
organiza tion with Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
.com/ucsdguardian
asgraphicstudioApply to
asgraphicstudio@ucsd.edu
*include resume & design samples/ portfolio
graphic
artistswantedgraphic
artistswantedComplete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies 
on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.ukLevel: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
Level:
12
34Level:
12
34Level: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
SUDOKU
www.ucsdguardian.org/advertisingSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 23, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
LOST
-REWARD-
MORE INFO FOUND AT
sgf.ucsd.edu/ sgfbabiesLioness baby sun god with tan fur. Answers to the name of “Jordan”. 
Weighs approx. 2oz. - 4 years old. Loves music and 
helping others. Last seen in Price Center East.  
follow @ucsdasce @asgraphicstudio @tritonoutfitter #sgfbabies
Young Triton Team Looks to Improve Record for Next Season
middle blocker Shayne Beamer and 
redshirt freshman opposite Tanner 
Syftestad. However, the comeback 
did not last, and for the rest of the 
set, the Anteaters dominated. The 
hosts regained a big lead of 20–12 
in a period of play featuring three 
back-to-back kills from senior 
outside hitter Travis Woloson. Al -
though the Tritons managed a four-
point flurry toward the end of the 
game, which saw two consecutive 
blocks first from Syftestad and then 
from Beamer, UC Irvine carried on 
the attacking dominance to take the 
first set 25–17.
The second set saw a turn in the 
fortune at the start, as the Tritons 
managed to take a 3–1 lead thanks 
to a kill from junior outside hitter 
Kirill Rudenko and two consecutive 
blocks from Beamer. The Anteaters 
managed to level the score at 3–3 
and the set continued in an evenly 
matched fashion as the team tied 
nine times in the set. The turn -
ing point came at 14–14, when 
UC Irvine managed to build up a three-point advantage for the first 
time in the match and lead 17–14. 
The Tritons did manage to come 
within a point of their opponents as 
freshman setter Milosh Stojcic hit 
a service ace to bring it to 18–19, 
but the Anteaters simply proved too 
good in the final stretch of the set 
and managed to take a 2–0 advan -
tage with a 25–21 set victory.
After matching up well with 
their higher-ranked opponent in 
the second set, the Tritons looked 
to continue their strong show -
ing when they took the first point 
of the set with a Colbert kill. UC 
Irvine answered and sped away, 
picking up a 5–1 lead. The Tritons 
tried to compete, picking up two 
points to bring the score to 5–3, 
but seven unanswered opposing 
points gave the hosts a lead which 
the Tritons could not recover from 
at 12–3. The Tritons did show a lot 
of heart, picking up eight of the 
next 11 points to bring the score to 
15–11 in a period that featured two 
Syfestad kills. However, UCSD was 
unable to keep up the momentum, 
and the Anteaters dominated, took the set 25–15, and with that the 
match.
Despite the loss, the perfor -
mance showed huge signs of 
promise. UCSD out-blocked its op -
ponents 8.5–4.0, the sixth time the 
men have out-blocked an opponent 
this season. On top of this, Colbert 
and Syftestad racked up eight kills 
each, with Colbert also tallying a 
team-high six digs.
“I felt like we competed with 
them really well in the first two 
sets, ” UCSD men’s head coach 
Kevin Ring said. “Offensively, 
they were stronger — particularly 
they had a few really strong serv -
ers. Apart from that, I think we 
matched them all over the court 
and were very happy with our block 
ratio compared to theirs. ”
The loss puts UCSD at 2–26 
for the season. However, UCSD 
has a young team that showed 
some promise down the road and 
will look forward to improving its 
record next year.
Four Returning Starters Will Help Tritons Build on the Year’s Performances in 2016
saw it drop to 295 and a seventh-
place finish. 
“Unfortunately, we came up 
short today despite shooting a 
season-best round this morning, ” 
UCSD head coach Jim Ragan told 
the UCSD Athletics Department. 
“We played well during the second 
round, also, equaling our second-
lowest round of the year. ”
Y amaguchi got off to a hot start 
as he hit an amazing 67 in the 
opening round and tied for first place. However, he did not find 
the same success in the second 
round, shooting a still-good 73 that 
dropped him to sixth place. He hit 
the second-most birdies in the com -
petition to finish the competition 
with a four-under par 140.
The rest of the UCSD team saw 
senior Jay Lim tie for 18th (145), ju -
nior Daniel Y ang tie for 22nd (146), 
junior Jeff Roseth tie for 34th (151) 
and sophomore Rocky Hall finish 
39th (156). 
“The guys did a great job repre -senting UCSD today, ” Ragan said. 
“They continued to get better as the 
season progressed and played their 
best golf over the last two weeks. ”
Chico State’s junior Alistair Do -
cherty defeated Cal State Stanislaus’ 
sophomore Connor Day to be 
named the CCAA individual cham -
pion, while Chico State’s junior 
Justin Wiles shot a 66 in the second 
round on the day, the lowest round 
of the day.
The CCAA all-tournament team 
included Docherty, Day, Wiles, Cal State Monterey Bay’s sophomore 
Fredrik Jullum and junior Anton 
Rosen.
Cal State East Bay upset fourth-
ranked Chico State (3–2), and Cal 
State Stanislaus defeated Cal State 
Monterey Bay (3.5–1.5) to advance 
to Wednesday’s championship 
medal-match round.▶ MEN’S VOLLEYBALL,  from page 12
▶ GOLF ,  from page 12readers can contact
Liam  leahy   leahy@ucsd.edu 
readers can contact
marcus thuillier   mthuilli@ucsd.edu On April 18, the UCSD dancesport 
team attended the Cardinal Classic 
annual dance competition at Stanford 
University. Nine members of the 
team competed, all of whom placed 
in at least one event. In the American 
Smooth category, couple Naftali Bura -
kovsky and Paula Anzenberg placed 
sixth in the silver-level tango and sixth 
in the silver-level multidance event 
for waltz and foxtrot. Couple Akshata 
Rohra and Simon Huang placed third 
in the Newcomer Viennese waltz, 
third in the Newcomer Tango, sixth 
in the bronze-level Viennese waltz 
and fourth in the bronze-level tango. 
Couple Andy Helson and Laurel 
Wilkinson placed fifth in the Bronze 
level multidance event for waltz and 
foxtrot, as well as fifth in the bronze-
level Viennese waltz.
In the American Rhythm category, 
Rohra and Huang placed second in 
the Newcomer bolero. Couple Kaya 
Ishijima and Simon Huang placed fifth in the bronze-level multidance 
event for cha and rumba, fifth in the 
bronze-level swing, fifth place in the 
bronze-level bolero and third in the 
bronze-level Mambo.
In the International Latin 
category, Burakovsky and Katrina 
Kennedy placed fourth in the 
bronze-level paso doble, with couple 
Andy Helson and Laurel Wilkinson 
coming in third place and Rohra and 
Huang winning second place. Rohra 
and Huang also placed third in the 
bronze-level samba and third in the 
bronze-level multidance event for 
cha and rumba. Couple David Fan 
and Kaya Ishijima placed first in the 
gold-level multidance event for cha, 
rumba, samba and jive, an incredible 
accomplishment. They also placed 
fifth in the gold-level paso doble and 
even earned second in the silver-
level multidance for cha, rumba and 
samba and fourth in the silver-level 
paso doble.CLUB SPORTS 
UCSD Dancesport Team 
Places High at Stanford
Nine Tritons place in multiple events in Cardinal Classic.
Follow us on Twitter
@UCSD_SportsSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
MARCUS THUILLIER
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 23, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
 Tritons Dominate 
      UCSD clinches CCAA berth for a second consecutive season.
347hits
.4 07OBP232runs210RBIs
24 UCSD baseball won a California Collegiate Athletic Association 
series against Cal State Stanislaus last weekend, with the Tritons 
dominating the contest by winning three of the four games. Later 
on Tuesday, the Tritons won their only game of the week to conclude a 
four-game series against Cal State San Bernardino at home and clinched 
a second-straight postseason berth in the CCAA. 
Cal Poly Pomona still leads UCSD in the CCAA standings with the 
Tritons sitting at 25–11 in league play and Pomona at 23–9 thus far in 
the 2015 season. This week’s wins bring UCSD’s overall record to 30–15 
with four games left before the CCAA Championship in Stockton start -
ing on May 7.
 Game one in Turlock last Friday saw junior right-hander Justin 
Donatella (8–1) continue his dominant 2015 season from the mound. 
Donatella threw eight frames and 102 pitches with only two hits in the 
11–0 UCSD stomping. He lowered his CCAA-best ERA to 0.55 and his 
strikeout count to 88, also the best in the conference.
 “(Donatella) did a great job, ” UCSD head coach Eric Newman told 
the UCSD Athletics Department. “He wasn’t really that sharp the first 
two innings, and Stanislaus had some opportunities. They hit a couple 
of balls hard, but he just kept grinding it out; guys made some great plays 
behind him and he fell into that rhythm that we’ve all seen. From that 
point on, it was really, really good. ”
Last week, Donatella was also awarded the CCAA Baseball Pitcher of 
the Week and was named as one of 32 semifinalists for the Brett Tomko 
Award. The Tomko award is given to the pitcher of the year, as recog -
nized by D2 Baseball News, in Division-II competition. Additionally, 
Donatella’s ERA is on track to break both school and CCAA records by 
the end of regular season play in 2015.UCSD continued its dominance when the team swept the double -
header last Saturday against Stanislaus, winning 10–0 and 2–0 respec -
tively and adding another 16 shutout innings to the Triton pitching 
staff ’s growing tally.
“Today was obviously a great day for our pitchers to establish that 
mentality we had early in the year, ” Newman said. “I thought our defense 
today was outstanding and guys competed for each other to make some 
tough plays. ”
Stanislaus didn’t even put a runner across base until Sunday’s finale in 
the bottom of the third inning. They managed another in the fourth and 
UCSD ended up dropping the last game to the home team 2–1.
Tuesday’s game against last-place Cal State San Bernardino quickly 
turned into an 18–1 offensive onslaught by Triton batters, who racked up 
a season-high 23 hits on the day. Junior outfielder Gradeigh Sanchez led 
the order for the 21st time this year and crossed the plate four times off 
of two hits and an RBI. Senior first baseman Michael Mann led the team 
in RBIs at three after going 2-for-3 at the plate and crossing home plate 
three times himself. Junior infielder and pitcher Troy Cruz gave a 3-for-3 
performance, crossing home twice while redshirt freshman Tim White, 
freshman infielder Tyler Plantier, senior infielder Erik Lewis and sopho -
more outfielder Christian Leung all contributed two RBIs to the effort.
As the Tritons take the weekend off and conclude the regular season 
with a four-game, split location series against fourth-place Cal State Los 
Angeles on April 30 to May 2, it is clear UCSD is moving into the final 
stretch of the season while playing some of its best baseball.No.
UCSD hosted the California 
Collegiate Athletic Association 
Men’s Golf Championship in 
Stockton, California from this past 
Monday through Wednesday. The 
Tritons placed seventh overall out 
of eight participating squads, thus 
not qualifying for the semifinals. 
The top UCSD finisher was junior 
Clayton Y amaguchi, who fin -
ished sixth in a tie with two other 
athletes.
Along with UCSD (582, six 
strokes over par), Sonoma State 
University (576, even), Cal State 
San Bernardino (581, five strokes 
over par) and Cal State Dominguez 
Hills (586, 10 strokes over par) were 
the three other teams that did not 
qualify for the semifinals.
After Monday’s competition, No. 5 Chico State (559, 17 under 
par) placed first, No. 7 Cal State 
Monterey Bay (566, 10 under par) 
second, Cal State Stanislaus (573, 
three under par) third and Cal 
State East Bay (574, two under par) 
fourth to advance to the semifinals on Tuesday.
On Monday, UCSD started the 
day off strong and shot a 287 as a 
team to temporarily place fourth. 
The second round in the afternoon GOLF
UCSD Fails to Qualify for Semi-Finals
Y amaguchi starts strong in first round and finishes sixth out of 39 competitors.
B y Marcus Thuillier
Sports Editor
See GOLF , page 11PHOTO USED WITH PERMISSION FROM UCSD ATHLETICSMEN'S VOLLEYBALL
Team Falls in Three Sets
Tritons drop games against UCI to end 2015 season.
The UCSD men’s volleyball team 
ended the season with a loss in 
three sets against No.  4 UC Irvine 
on Saturday night at Bren Events 
Center. The Tritons pushed the 
better-ranked team close but fell 
to set scores of 25–17, 25–21 and 
25–15. The win gave UC Irvine the 
number one seed for the upcoming 
Mountain Pacific Sports Federation 
tournament.
The game began with Irvine 
taking charge and grabbing a swift 
5–2 lead in the first game, with help 
from three Triton errors. Although 
this lead extended to 7–2 shortly 
after, the Tritons edged closer 
and were only down 11–9 in the 
middle of the set. The comeback 
featured two kills from sophomore 
outside hitter Ian Colbert, as well 
as a kill apiece from sophomore B y Liam Leahy
Staff Writer
See MEN’S VOLLEYBALL , page 11
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE / GUARDIANSeason Team Stats
#1 in CCAA
#1 in CCAA
#1 in CCAA
#1 in CCAA
Justin Donatella
1st in CCAA
1st in CCAA
1st in CCAAPHOTO BY KELSEA BERGH / GUARDIAN
88 strikeouts
8 wins 
.55 ERAWritten By John Story Associate Sports Editor  // Photo by Emma ZilberTrack and Field
Softball
M. Crew
W. Crew
W. Water Polo     4/24
     4/24
     4/25
     4/25
     4/25AT Triton Invitational
VS Cal State San Bernardino
AT WIRA Championships
AT WIRA Championships
AT WW ChampionshipsUPCOMING
UCSD
GAMES
readers can contact
jhn stor y   jstory@ucsd.edu 