VOLUME 49, ISSUE 12   MONDA Y , NOVEMBER 2, 2015  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LET THE UCSD GUARDIAN HELP 
YOU OUT WITH THE LOGISTICS 
OF STUDYING ABROAD. CHECK 
OUT OUR TRAVEL GUIDE 
FOR THE RUN-DOWN ON 
DIFFERENT UC PROGRAMS 
AND POPULAR DESTINATIONS.
FEMALE   SEX   DRIVE
SOCCER  GOES  TO  CCASthe   little   pink   pill
women  t ake  third,  men  sixth opinion,  P age   4
sports,  P age  12
MONDAY
H 77 L 59TUESDAY
H 71 L 59
WEDNESDAY
H 67 L 54THURSDAY
H 68 L 52
FORECAST
VERBATIM
THE QUIET, MONOTONOUS 
VOICE OF YOUR PROFES -
SOR WILL ENSURE YOU FALL 
ASLEEP IN FEWER THAN 30 
SECONDS. YOU’LL ABSORB 
THE ENTIRE LECTURE SEAM -
LESSLY, WHILE CATCHING UP 
ON A WELL-DESERVED NIGHT 
OF SLEEP ...”
- Sleep Deprivation
HOW-TO GURU
OPINION , PAGE 4
INSIDE
IN-STATE ENROLLMENT  ..2
POLICE BOYCOTT  ............ 4
STUDY ABROAD  .............. 7
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU  ..10
MEN’S WATER POLO  .....12“FEA TURES,  P AGE  6
ILLUSTRATION BY CHRISTINA CARLSON
Sally Ride Science, the scientific, 
technological, engineering and 
medical education-focused  San Diego 
corporation co-founded by the first 
American woman in space, became 
official partners with UCSD Extension, 
Scripps Institute of Oceanography and 
the San Diego Supercomputer Center 
on Oct. 1.
Dr. Karen Flammer, co-founder 
and Director of Education for Sally 
Ride Science and the SDSC, explained 
to the UCSD Guardian that the 
company was created with the goal 
of making STEM education more 
inclusive for adolescents, targeting the lesser-represented females as well 
as young people of color and from 
underprivileged areas.
“Our mission and focus has 
always been to widen the pipeline 
[and] get more students, more 
diversity and more girls in STEM, ” 
Flammer said. “We’ve always 
targeted upper-elementary and 
middle school-grade students. ”
Co-founder and current CEO of 
the company Tam O’Shaughnessy 
described to the Guardian how what 
she called a “perfect partner[ship]” 
was born.  
“We decided we wanted to 
find a good parent company that 
would help us grow and also bring 
in fresh insight and brain [power], ” O’Shaughnessy said who was Ride’s 
life partner. “Immediately after I 
became CEO [about 2 years ago], 
I began talking to business leaders 
and a few nonprofits about a merger 
or an acquisition. About six months 
ago, the idea of UCSD came to mind 
… [and] it just seemed like a match 
made in heaven. ”
Director of UCSD K-16 Programs 
and Assistant Dean for Community 
Engagement and Director, Pre-
Collegiate and Career Preparation 
Programs Edward Abeyta told 
the Guardian the goals for UCSD 
Extension in relation to the new 
partnership mirror those of Sally 
Ride Science.Scholars Discuss Climate 
Change Solutions at Summit
UC President Janet Napolitano and Gov. Jerry Brown 
attended a two-day climate summit at UCSD 
that began last Monday and ended on Tuesday. 
Researchers from across the University of California 
comprised the UC Climate Solutions group and collectively 
presented 10 methods to achieve carbon neutrality. 
The panelists at the summit emphasized the need to 
act in order to prevent an overall increase in the global 
temperature of two degrees Celsius by 2050; this would 
result in an increased frequency and intensity of the 
symptoms of climate change, such as floods, heat 
waves, droughts, drinking water contaminants and 
food shortages. In addition, the 10 solutions presented 
could all be implemented immediately to support a full 
transition to carbon neutrality.
UCSD’s Sustainability Manager Sara McKinstry said 
she hopes that the comprehensive approach proposed 
at the summit will inspire people from different 
institutions and disciplines to work together to fight 
climate change.
“The solutions presented in the ‘Bending the Curve’ report cover everything from policy recommendations 
to economic incentives to new technologies to 
communications. We need that kind of comprehensive 
approach to deal with climate disruption, ” McKinstry 
told the UCSD Guardian. “We brought people together 
across campuses, institutions, corporations and 
disciplines, and the hope is that people will be inspired 
to continue those kinds of cross-collaborations. ”
The report covered both short and long-term 
solutions to become carbon neutral by 2025 and 
reducing reliance on fossil fuels. Dr. Jane Teranes, 
Associate Director and Lecturer at the Scripps Institute 
of Oceanography, said that keeping time constraints in 
mind will be beneficial for the people in the future.
“ A lot of times in the media we focus on carbon 
dioxide emissions but there are other greenhouse gases 
— methane and black carbon — that are much easier 
politically to reduce, ” Teranes told the UCSD Guardian. 
“I liked how the report brought our attention to some 
easy projects upfront while still emphasizing that CO2 
emissions have to be reduced globally. Having some   B Y  Ming-Ra y Liao   Contributing WriterNew Exhibit 
Celebrates 
Legacy of  
Jonas Salk UCSD
Students and faculty gathered 
with Salk’s family members at 
a forum to commemorate his 
life experiences last Friday.
BY  J o s h  L e f l e r
Staff Writer
See SALK , page 3The UCSD Faculty Club hosted 
a discussion on the legacy of Jonas 
Salk, inventor of the polio vaccine 
and founder of the Salk Institute, 
last Friday to commemorate the 
opening of the new exhibition 
featuring Salk’s personal documents 
at Geisel Library. Two of Salk’s 
three sons, Jonathan and Peter Salk, 
participated along with UCSD’s 
Associate Vice Chancellor of Public 
Programs Mary Walshok and the 
San Diego Union-Tribune’s science 
editor Gary Robbins. 
The conversation, mediated by 
Robbins, touched on many facets of 
Salk’s life work and belief systems. 
Robbins began the talk with a 
scenario describing the deadly grip 
that polio once had on the American 
consciousness 75 years ago. 
“If there had been an outbreak of 
polio in some communities, trains 
would actually not stop in those 
towns, ” Robbins said. “People were 
so afraid of being infected … that 
people stopped hugging, shaking 
hands … [That fear] permeated 
American culture, and did so for a 
long, long time. ” 
Jonas Salk removed those fears 
in 1955 when he and his team 
announced their discovery of an 
effective polio vaccine.
The conversation quickly moved 
away from Salk’s well-known triumph 
against polio, focusing more on his 
unique philosophy and how those 
values were incorporated into the 
founding of his eponymous institute.
Peter Salk described his father as 
a “bio-philosopher” who attempted 
to transcribe his thoughts on paper 
through a series of books and 
multiple dissertations.
“He wasn’t just a scientist in the 
sense of doing experiments … he 
was always thinking about the deep 
meaning of life, of existence and of 
the interactions of people, ” Peter 
explained. “He would look to nature 
to give the indication as to how things 
function … how things move us. ” 
According to Peter Salk, his 
father attempted to instill those 
beliefs into a center of learning 
when he founded the Salk Institute, 
a task fraught with funding issues.
The March of Dimes foundation, 
originally dedicated to the 
eradication of polio, provided initial 
funding for Salk’s dream institution 
but quickly ran out of resources for 
the project.
“What he was talking about  was 
gathering a group of people who 
would [not only] be highly skilled 
in science, but [also] be ‘broad’ 
people, ” Peter Salk explained. “His 
anticipation was that as time went UC San Diego Partners with Sally Ride Science
The partnership aims to make STEM education more accessible to minority groups.See CLIMATE , page 3
See  RIDE , page 2UC SYSTEMAROUND CAMPUS
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
BY   J u l i e  Y i p
Contributing WritER
Students ran to grab candy released from the record-breaking pumpkin drop last Friday at Tioga Hall in John Muir College.
Photo by Geoff Palomino /UCSD Guardian.PASSPORT 
READY“One [goal] is to honor Sally Ride, 
foremost in our overall objective 
because she [supported] women in 
general, ” Abeyta said. “She was [the] 
first female and youngest American 
astronaut to go into space. [Our] second 
goal is to deliver and sustain a program 
model with Sally Ride Science. We 
want to inspire teachers and create the 
next generation of learners and girls, 
provide educational access to other 
teachers and communities … and have 
… a model we can showcase globally. ”
Working with UCSD will not 
alter the company’s goals, but profits 
from the books and guides developed 
through the partnership will go to the 
university, according to O’Shaughnessy. 
“Basically, UCSD has acquired 
the assets of Sally Ride Science, ” 
O’Shaughnessy said. “What we have 
created over the years is around 100 science books and career books 
for kids in elementary and middle 
school. We also created comprehensive 
teacher guides that go with the books 
[in addition to] teacher training. So we 
have curriculum to engage girls and 
boys in science and math — how to 
make it interesting and inspiring, how 
to teach it based on current research. 
Everything we’ve created and that we’re 
so proud of now belongs to UCSD. ”
Flammer and O’Shaughnessy 
discussed the importance of 
having outreach programs for 
underrepresented adolescents beyond 
the opportunities the company is 
trying to equalize as technical jobs 
increase into the future.
“There are not enough students 
right now graduating with STEM 
backgrounds to fill the protected 
jobs out there,” Flammer noted. 
“Engineering companies, tech 
companies — they know there will 
be an increase in technical jobs. There aren’t enough students in 
this country to fill them. Get the 
underrepresented minorities filled, 
get young girls in science. ”
O’Shaughnessy explained that 
the demand of the job market is 
consistent with the disparity of gender, 
background and more.
“In engineering, computer science 
and physics, there are still way too 
few women and people of color 
involved, ” O’Shaughnessy said. “What 
the research shows is that it’s mostly a 
cultural phenomenon. There is a lack 
of encouraging girls and people of 
color to be involved to be in [STEM]. 
I think working with our partners at 
UCSD, we can continue to change 
perceptions of who makes a good 
scientist and a computer scientist and 
an engineer. It can be anybody. ”
To support this belief, Sally Ride 
Science has plans to collaborate with 
UCTV and an event with SDSC 
celebrating professional women in STEM. Future projects include 
incorporating UCSD students into 
outreach programs with young girls 
and people of color. 
O’Shaughnessy is hopeful for the 
future and expects such events to have 
results in line with what her lifelong 
partner Sally Ride fought to achieve 
before her passing in 2012.
“ All kids deserve to be 
scientifically literate, tech literate, 
math literate because the jobs out 
there today and especially in the 
future demand a solid background 
in those areas, ” O’Shaughnessy said. 
“We really, as a society, want to make 
sure kids are prepared to have a 
good future. And of course, math 
and science are very involved in 
innovation. We want to make sure as 
a country, we’re always innovating, 
always doing good things. ”2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 2, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
PEEPS By Jennifer Hsu
REGISTER ONLINE AT AS.UCSD.EDU/SAFERIDESRegistration for FALL QUARTER IS NOW OPEN!
A.S. Safe Rides allows registered undergraduate students 
to get 3 FREE rides per quarter. Students MUST
register at least 24 hours prior to their ﬁrst ride. A.S. SAFE RIDES 
@asucsdThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. VINCENT WE FINISHED BY 6 WITHOUT YOU.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Marketing Director
Laura Chow
Associate Marketing Director
Peter McInnis
Training and Development Manager
Cedric Hyon
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Vincent Pham
Rosina Garcia
Tina Butoiu
Kriti Sarin
Jacky To
Cassia Pollock 
Marcus Thuillier
Allison Kubo
Kyle Somers
Karly Nisson
Brittney Lu
Olga Golubkova
Jonathan Gao
Megan Lee
Joselynn Ordaz
Sherman Aline
Elyse Yang
Christina Carlson
Jennifer GrundmanEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
 
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
Associate Features Editor
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Sherman Aline, Allison Kubo
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim
Editorial Assistants
Sage Schubert Christian, Katie Potts, Christian DuarteSally Ride Science Plans to Establish Outreach Projects for Women and People of  Color
▶ RIDE,  from page 1
Julie Yip jlyip@ucsd.edureaders can contact
UC President Janet Napolitano announced last week that the university will 
enroll 5,000 more Californian students next school year. Napolitano did not 
reveal the details of her plan but she told the LA Times it is “a really good plan” 
that she will discuss at this month’s UC Regents meeting.
If implemented, the State Legislature will grant the university $25 million in 
additional funding, as stipulated in its budget. Speaker of the California State 
Assembly Tony Atkins expressed her support for Napolitano’s plan for action.
“When the Assembly conducted our in-depth review of the University of 
California this year, it was clear that the university can and should do a better 
job fulfilling its mission to educate California students, ” Atkins said in an Oct. 
22 press release. “President Napolitano’s comments suggest [University of 
California] has accepted this challenge. ”
A.S. Vice President of External Affairs Krystl Fabella told the UCSD Guardian that she doesn’t believe this plan is realistic. Though she doesn’t 
dissent to the idea of enrolling more students from California, Fabella stated 
that the university currently doesn’t have the infrastructure to support 5,000 
more students.
“It’s not just new dorm beds and classes that would need to be factored in, ” 
Fabella told the Guardian. “It’s literally everything that will be aggravated even 
more with the enrollment: student-to-teacher ratio, overwhelmed TAs, housing, 
parking, etc. This will prove to be way more costly, with all the elements that 
would go into it. ”
Furthermore, Fabella argued that the university should offset the increase in 
in-state enrollment with a decrease in out-of-state enrollment.
The UC Regents will convene to discuss and consider the Napolitano’s at UC 
San Francisco - Mission Bay on Nov. 18. UC Office of the President Announces Plan to Enroll 5,000 Additional California Residents Next Academic YearIN BRIEF    WRITTEN BY
JACKY  TO //  ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITORon, the institute would also be 
dealing with problems that arise 
from man’s relationship to man. ”
Jonas Salk was eventually 
successful in acquiring a location 
after Roger Revelle, the founder of 
UCSD, offered Salk a plot of land 
that the San Diego city council had 
originally offered UCSD.
Walshok said that Salk’s success 
also came in part from his ability to rally others around his vision for the 
Salk Institute.
“He had that quality of making 
connections with people from all 
walks of life, ” Walshok said. “Two-
thirds of [San Diego’s] citizens voted 
[in 1959] to give the 27 acres to the 
Salk Institute. That is amazing. ”
UCSD graduate student and 
Thurgood Marshall College alumnus 
Rishan Silva said he felt the hour-
long discussion “barely scratched 
the surface” of Salk’s endeavors.“I knew the name [and] I knew 
the Salk Institute, ” Silva told the 
Guardian. “But it felt like a sentence 
from each chapter of his life. There’s 
definitely a lot more depth. I’m going 
to eventually read his biography 
because it’s in my head now. ”
Salk’s papers will be on exhibition 
at Geisel Library until Dec. 12.short-term solutions like targeting 
methane and black carbon while we 
try and figure out a way to target 
the longer term CO2 emissions is a 
great approach. ”
Kate Moser, media specialist 
for the UC Office of the President, 
commented on how the drought has 
had deleterious effects on California 
agriculture and farmers.
“I was managing my family’s 
farm before I came to UCOP, 
and as a farmer I was witnessing 
firsthand what many of us are with 
the implications of the drought, ” 
Moser told the Guardian. “I can 
see the implications of climate 
change and its impact on California 
agriculture and what that might 
mean for the future of family farms 
and California. ”
Teranes also described how the 
University’s efforts to reduce the  
negative impact of climate change 
will affect future generations.
“Dealing with symptoms 
associated with climate change is 
one of the greatest challenges right 
now and it’s interesting because 
it has generational consequences, 
so what we do right now matters, ” Terranes said. “There is also a 
social justice implication since a 
lot of the countries that emit most 
of the greenhouse gasses aren’t 
necessarily the populations that are 
going to suffer the most serious 
consequences. Our country and 
other countries in the developed 
world have a responsibility to do 
something about it. ”
In addition, Moser discussed 
the urgency of the environmental 
situation and how it is imperative 
that UCOP take action.
“The injustice of climate change 
is something that Napolitano has 
said, too — the implications of 
climate change are so severe it’s 
become a moral imperative to try 
and take action, ” Moser said. “That’s 
why the summit and things like 
the Cool Campus Challenge that 
is going on right now on all of 
our campuses are helpful — they 
get people to take actions in their 
own lives and try to do something 
collectively to solve this problem. ”
McKinstry added that students 
have significantly more power 
than they realize when it comes to 
changing the world.
“Students are our future voters, 
leaders, entrepreneurs and parents, ” McKinstry said. “Without students 
pushing for change, researching 
green technologies or doing things 
as simple as signing up for the Cool 
Campus Challenge to pledge to 
take action to lower their carbon 
footprints, we won’t successfully 
fight climate disruption. ”
Teranes believes that the 
interdisciplinary studies UCSD 
students focus on will play a pivotal 
role in solving climate change in the 
near future.
“UCSD has produced a lot of 
interdisciplinary scientists, faculty 
and students and a lot of challenges 
in solving climate change lie now in 
what to do about it, ” Teranes said. 
“For that I see an increase in need 
for interdisciplinary problem solvers. ”
The solutions were published 
in the “Bending the Curve” report 
which aims to reduce the carbon 
footprint of the world’s wealthiest 
one billion people. Additionally, 
this collaborative research will be 
brought to the 2015 United Nations 
Climate Change Conference that 
will be held in Paris later this month.NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 2, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
McKinstry: Students Must Collectively Act Against Climate Change
Geisel Library to Exhibit Salk’s Personal Documents until December▶ CLIMATE,  from page 1
▶ SALK,  from page 1Ming-Ra y LIao  m4liao@ucsd.edureaders can contact
Josh  Lefler jlefler@ucsd.edureaders can contactLooking for the 
New Business 
Column?
Now posted every Wednesday 
night, after the A.S. Council 
meeting, online.
ucsdguardian.org4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 2, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CASSIA  POLLOCIK
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
How-To 
Guru: 
Master Sleep 
Deprivation
I’ll sleep when I die. This 
wise proverb, once said by an 
anonymous but deeply admired 
college student, has become an 
almost legendary folklore among 
the UCSD student population. With 
all of our profound ambitions and 
intense responsibilities — school, 
work, exercise, parents, friends, sex 
life, reality TV — we are often left 
with no choice but to ignore some 
of our more practical needs. We 
all know that finding time to sleep 
is no easy task in college. Sleep is 
one of those commonly neglected 
but fondly thought of practices that 
college students can only dream of. 
With noisy, alcoholic suitemates, it 
can seem nearly impossible to sleep. 
However, as young, fledgling adults, 
it is vital to our development that we 
maintain regular sleep cycles. With 
this handy-dandy how-to guide, 
you’ll never wear four-inch deep, 
gray bags below your eyes again.
Step 1: Take your alarm clock 
and chuck it out the window. 
Forget daylight savings. It’s time to 
start flowing on your own unique 
schedule. Line your windows with 
thick velvet curtains to shut out those 
pesky rays of sunlight reminding you 
when daytime has struck. Now you 
can begin to take your life back.
Step 2: Skip your 8 a.m. classes. 
Look, we get it. Y ou’re on a tight 
four-year schedule, and you have 
to bust through all those major 
requirements with five classes a 
quarter. The best option is to listen 
to your professor’s podcast before 
you go to sleep each night. The quiet, 
monotonous voice of your professor 
will ensure you fall asleep in fewer 
than 30 seconds. Y ou’ll absorb the 
entire lecture seamlessly, while 
catching up on a well-deserved night 
of sleep.
Step 3: Loosen your strict class 
requirements by attending lectures 
in a soft-focus sleepy state-of-mind, 
casually dressed in your onesie 
pajamas. When in your bedroom, 
only use the bed for studying so there 
is a direct correlation in your mental 
psyche between studying and sleep. 
This association will allow you to 
immediately fall into a deep state of 
unconsciousness that mixes rapid eye 
movement with learning. Even if you 
don’t end up with straight As in your 
GPA, you’ll have a hell of a good time 
dreaming about it.
Step 4: Have a noisy roommate? 
People will tell you to wear earplugs, 
but don’t waste your time with those 
rubbery, uncomfortable devices. 
It’s much more effective to place a 
thick blanket over your roommate’s 
snoring mouth after he or she falls 
asleep. Better yet, wait for them to 
go out to a party and change the 
lock on your apartment door. They’ll 
thank you, after they learn to live 
somewhere else.
If none of these tips have 
impressed upon you the ardent need 
to change your sleepless lifestyle, 
perhaps it is time to hold that 
need for sleep until you die. In the 
meantime, begin to consume coffee 
religiously. Forget Starbucks and 
corporations, and don’t accept any 
of that automatic, insta-coffee crap. 
Ditch the bars and save your shot 
glasses for pure espresso.Police Must Take Responsibility 
For the Public’s Dissatisfaction
QUICK TAKESIN THE AFTERMATH OF A PROTEST AGAINST POLICE BRUTALITY IN WHICH FILM DIRECTOR QUENTIN TARANTINO 
VOCALLY PARTICIPATED, THE LAPD AND NYPD RESPONDED WITH A BOYCOTT ON HIS FILMS.Y et another drug designed to treat sexual dysfunction hit the market 
a few weeks ago: Flibanserin, aka “Female Viagra. ” There are 17 di fferent 
drugs currently being produced to treat erectile disfunction, but with 
this new drug, it seems the pharmaceutical industry has finally cast its 
eyes over the female libido. That’s right, ladies, Flibanserin aims to treat 
women’s — not men’s — sexual dysfunction. Heralded as “ The Female 
Viagra, ” some believe Flibanserin is an important solution to a real 
problem and gives women the attention they’ve previously been denied. 
But will “the little pink pill” — named in a not-so-subtle appeal to our 
abstract concept of “femininity” — open doors for a formerly sexually 
repressed group of women, or will it do more harm than good? Female 
sexual liberation may have come in the form of a pill with the advent of 
birth control in the ‘60s, but I think it’s safe to say that this pill does not 
have the same or even similar “liberating” qualities. In truth, the drug 
raises a variety of questions that are deeply mired in the complicated 
world of institutionalized sexism
Conceptually, “Female Viagra” sends a somewhat nuanced and 
certainly complex message. On a positive note, it shi fts the focus in the 
bedroom away from the notion that sex is an act geared primarily toward achieving male pleasure. It says, “Hey, women have a sex drive too, and 
our sexual satisfaction is just as important as any other man’s. ” On the 
other hand, it feeds into an already hypersexualized culture. A culture 
that, in one extreme, tells women having too much sex makes them a 
whore and, in the other extreme, inundates them with details on how to 
be sexier, how to give the greatest blowjob, how to get bigger breasts and 
a firmer butt. In short: How To Be The Perfect Sex Object. 
In a sense, this drug is also suggesting that if you’re not feeling it, 
there’s probably something wrong with you. Y ou don’t only need a sexy 
body, you also need a sexy mind. This is, in fact, exactly what the drug 
intends to achieve. Rather than treating an actual, physical dysfunction, 
it aims to treat an assumed mental/psychological “dysfunction. ” In this 
way, Flibanserin is really nothing like Viagra at all. The BBC explains that 
“while a Viagra pill treats erectile dysfunction by improving blood flow 
to the penis, Flibanserin was developed as an antidepressant and boosts 
sexual desire by balancing chemicals in the brain. ”
But what exactly is the dysfunction Flibanserin is medicating? Well, 
the FDA approved it to treat acquired, generalized hypoactive sexual 
desire disorder. The Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental 
See LIBIDO PILL, page 5
Female Viagra
B y  HAILEY  SANDEN  Senior Staff WriterAfter the FDA approved Flibanserin, a drug designed to increase women’s libidos, it became clear 
that society considers a woman without sexual desire to be broken and in need of fixing.
Recently, the NYPD called for the boycott 
of Quentin Tarantino’s films due to comments 
he made at a rally against police brutality, as 
the UK Guardian reported. The police have no 
right to censor negative press regarding their 
policies or their actions, especially when these 
criticisms are firmly grounded in reality. The 
attempt by police departments to usher in a 
culture of silence won’t solve the root causes 
of these criticisms but will instead generate 
more negative press for the police. Instead 
of attempting to silence the community, the 
police should be attempting to find solutions 
to prevent further abuses of police power. 
But who can keep the police accountable? 
We do, through smartphones and social media 
and other links that connect the police to the 
community. In order to improve their public 
image, police must be trained to reduce the 
number of violent encounters. A method of 
punishing police brutality must be established. 
Body cameras are another potential solution, 
as they provide constant footage of the officer’s 
interactions with the community.
Despite a myriad of solutions to attempt to 
solve the issues of police brutality, most won’t 
see the light of day. The W ashington Times cited 
a 2013 study by the National Criminal Justice 
Association that “found that Justice Department 
grants to local police forces had dropped 43 
percent since 2010” — hardly the improvement 
to train violent and aggressive officers to opt for 
more peaceful encounters. For now, the best we 
can do is use the pressure of media to compel 
police departments to prevent future instances 
of abuse.
    —  ALEXANDER CHEN  
                                                Contributing WriterMedia Boycott Promotes Culture 
of  Silence Instead of  Reform
When action-film director Quentin 
Tarantino criticized police brutality, some police 
departments responded with a media boycott. 
It is an undeniable fact that police brutality is 
a serious issue that all Americans need to face. 
However, the media often sensationalizes a few 
isolated moments of police brutality into an all-
encompassing anti-police rhetoric that fails to 
accurately reflect the police as a whole. 
Tarantino’s claims fall in line with the anti-
police brutality movement. When people rant 
about police brutality statistics, they are hailed 
for assertively protesting against the corruption 
in government. According to the FBI, however, 
in 2012 the crime rate among African-Americans 
is disproportionately high for its population size, 
representing a little over 30 percent of crime in 
the U.S. This dismisses the notion that it’s society 
or the police’s fault for marginalizing minority 
groups. The contradiction of decrying racial 
profiling while at the same time criminalizing 
cops is overlooked if not scorned. T oo often 
people forget that cops aren’t mindless drones 
or machines of violence. Most aren’t murderers. 
Cops have emotions and make mistakes because 
in the end they are normal people.
But we don’t see cops doing their jobs. We 
don’t hear about cops saving two lives in one 
day like Nathan Ernst did. Those stories don’t 
make national headlines, and they certainly don’t 
impassion thousand-person marches brimming 
with righteous fury. Unfortunately, cops are often 
viewed as faceless authority figures to be railed 
against, ignoring the fact that most of them are 
simply doing their best with a difficult job.
       
      —  AHMAD ALIJAW AD 
Contributing WriterPolice Are Often Frustrated with 
Unfair Depictions in the Media
When, according to a Gallup poll, almost 
half of the U.S. population mistrusts the police’s 
ability to enforce laws appropriately, one director 
voicing his negative opinions at a rally is 
irrelevant. This recent boycott by the NYPD and 
LAPD of their negative portrayal in the media 
is just a pathetic attempt to salvage their pride 
and does nothing to take actual responsibility for 
their public reputation.
The L.A. Police Protective League president’s 
remark to Entertainment Weekly magazine about 
how Quentin Tarantino “took irresponsibility 
to a new and completely unacceptable level” is 
laughably ironic when so little is being done to 
fix police methods of law enforcement. Instead 
of addressing the public’s concerns about racial 
profiling and increased militarism, the police 
resort to dismissing these perceptions.
With new videos being posted on social 
media every week showing overwhelming police 
brutality against people of color, local and federal 
institutions need to start facing the facts. The UK 
Guardian conducted a study showing that black 
Americans are more than twice as likely to be 
killed when unarmed than white Americans. In 
contrast, the Huffington Post reported that the 
instances of deadly violence against police are at 
an almost record low this year, despite the rise in 
“anti-cop rhetoric.”
The victims in this issue aren’t the police 
but the unarmed people being killed by 
them. Instead of crying over the tiny scratch 
on their image from Quentin Tarantino’s 
opinions, the police need to tend to the 
gaping wounds caused by institutional racism, 
sexism and classism.
          —  SOPHIE OSBORN
                                             Contributing WriterILLUSTRA TION   B Y  EL Y SE  Y ANGOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 2, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
TEDI Tritions for Equity Di versity and Inclusion
Consciousne ss of the world a round us is an i nvaluable skill for what ever 
career we pu rsue. The goals of TEDI a re to d evelop student s' critical 
consciousne ss of social justice and equi ty minded leade rship, and to build 
a net work of inclusi ve, equi ty minded s tudent leade rs on campus. The 
program consists of a retreat, with four foll ow-up p rograms, workshops, 
or events selected by the pa rticipant to supplement learning. TEDI is 
co-p resented by UCSD A ssociated Students and the Center for Student 
Involvement, and is open to all UCSD s tudents.
REGI STER N OW for TEDI,
go to http:/ /ccl.ucsd .edu/regist ration/
Question s? Email us at ucsdtedi@gmail .comSatu rday, November 14 • 9:30am-3:30pm
Governance Chambe rs, PC Eas t, level 4TRITON
PANTRYFOOD
location: Original Student Center
email: foodpantry@ucsd.edu
phone: (858) 534-5694The mission of the Triton Food Pantry is to provide a discreet 
service to UCSD students in need of food. Our goals are to 
ensure that every student has enough energy to get through 
the day and that no student needs to give up a single meal 
for any reason. We aim to build a network of resources and 
awareness about food insecurity.
Hours subject to change in future quarters.Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri
9am–1pm 3pm–6pm 3pm–6pm 9am–1pm 9am–1pmFall Quarter Hours:
WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
Flibanserin, aka the “Little Pink Pill” Treats a Socially Constructed Disorder
DID WE STRIKE
A NERVE?
SEND YOUR LETTERS TO 
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGDisorders, however, has combined 
female HSDD — the disorder that 
Flibanserin claims to treat — and 
female arousal dysfunction into a 
single syndrome called sexual interest/
arousal disorder. The DSM-V also 
suggests that treatment of sexual 
interest/arousal disorder “should 
begin with patient education, as 
women o ften have no expectation of 
what is ‘normal’ or how to express 
themselves. ” It further explains that it 
“is a complex and hardly understood 
condition … [and] may be caused 
by a multiplicity of biological, social, 
psychological, environmental and hormonal factors. ” 
In short, the disorder the little 
pink pill is prescribed for might 
not even be medically treatable, 
depending on the speci fic case. It’s 
also relevant to note that Flibanserin 
was previously rejected twice by the 
FDA, due to a concern with side 
effects, including nausea and dizziness. 
Clinical trials of the drug reported 
only one more enhanced sexual 
experience per month for women 
taking the pill compared to those in 
the placebo group, according to The 
New Y ork Times. So, it seems what 
we’re really looking at here is more 
of a manipulation of the public by 
the drug-pushing pharmaceutical industries. This time, they were able 
to finagle a fabricated feminist issue to 
line their pockets with cash. It would 
be a wasted opportunity not to, seeing 
as how pro fitable Viagra has been. 
As Rebecca Holliman writes in her 
U.S. News article, “Fixing women for 
profit is popular. Women are expected 
to be impossibly thin (we have a pill 
for that) and should have physics-
defying large-yet-perky breasts (we 
have surgery for that). Now we should 
also feel sexy constantly. ” Indeed, 
Flibanserin is not really a move 
toward female empowerment but 
rather an inept medical quick- fix to a 
problem that is in many ways as social 
as it is physiological.▶ LIBIDO PILL,  from page 46 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 2, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
ALLISON  KUBO
features@ucsdguardian.org
UCSD Guardian
   Travel Guide: Study Abroad
Looking at a map of Earth, at the innumerable cities and countries, and then deciding 
to study abroad is daunting. Figuring out how to fund your travels, get course credit and 
live in an unfamiliar country is nearly overwhelming. The UCSD Guardian gives the 
rundown on popular countries and programs to help with your search for the perfect 
location. Your adventure starts here. 
Need to do a summer session but want a change of scenery from UCSD?  Consider 
doing a Global Seminar.  Hosted for five weeks every summer, Global Seminars consist of 
two courses taught by UCSD faculty.
The courses o ffered during Global Seminars are UCSD classes, but they are taught 
much di fferently than their San Diego equivalents.
“Part of it is in class, but the other part is going on excursions and actually seeing 
things, and that’s incorporated into the classes, ” Bryanna Insley from the Study Abroad 
Office told the UCSD Guardian. 
Unlike EAP , where the courses taken simply count for transfer credits, Global Semi -
nars courses are taken directly for UC credits, since they are taught by UCSD faculty.
However, be prepared to compete in the application process; although applications 
are open from November 1st to March 1st, only 15 to 28 students are accepted for each 
seminar, and applications are accepted on a first-come, first-serve basis.  Those who are 
accepted, of course, have an excellent opportunity to interact one-on-one with their 
professor, as well as bond with fellow students.
Usually Global Seminars o ffers courses in 10 di fferent countries every summer, with 
15 programs in total. In 2016, courses will be o ffered in Quito, Ecuador; Paris, France 
and Tokyo, Japan.
Attending a Global Seminar generally costs between $4,000 and $6,000, though much 
of this cost can be covered through scholarships.  Eleanor Roosevelt College, for instance, 
provides scholarships for those going abroad for MMW 15, one of the college’s general 
education requirements.
Instead of choosing between a summer session and a summer vacation, take a Global 
Seminar and do both.
—  Oliver  kel ton
Contributing WriterGlobal Seminars
With more than 380 programs in 40 countries, the Education Abroad Program is a 
University of California system that assists undergraduate and graduate students with 
planning trips abroad through advising and financial aid. The advisors at EAP guaran -
tee that students interested in studying abroad will have the chance to do it, love it and 
learn from it. David Bernstein, a Peer Educator for the Study Abroad program at UCSD, 
recommends that students take the initiative in going abroad.
“Study abroad gives you a totally new perspective outside of UCSD. Y ou have endless 
possibilities of things you can learn about, new experiences you can have, new people 
you can meet, ” Bernstein said. “It’s just something new, something di fferent. If that’s what 
you’re into, then I can’t recommend it enough. ”
EAP does its utmost to ensure that students will be able to go without too much 
financial strain. If students are a part of the EAP , they are still eligible for the financial aid 
that was already being provided for them, and students who did not originally qualify for 
financial aid may be when studying abroad. The EAP and other programs, such as the 
Friends of the International Center, also o ffer scholarships to students.
Students who decide to study abroad have a number of choices when deciding what 
kind of program to choose. They can go abroad to take classes for their major, partici -
pate in internships or contribute to research projects in a speci fic area of study. In every 
program, students can gain experience abroad they could not anywhere else.
“[Something students can’t gain while studying at UCSD] would be the opportunities 
to travel, experiencing the place where you study abroad and the places around it you can 
travel to, ” Bernstein said. “[Y ou can] learn about new cultures and meet di fferent people 
with di fferent perspectives, di fferent ideas from your own. ”
—  Soo  yun  p ark
Senior Staff WriterEducation Abroad ProgramILLUSTRATION BY CHRISTINA CARLSONFEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 2, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
Regency Centers, owner of Costa V erde Center, plans to revitalize the 
center with new shops, restaurants and more, and we want your ideas!
CONNECT @COSTA VERDE
Costa Verde Center
Thursday, November 12th, 5-7PM 
8650 Genesee Avenue  
San Diego, CA  92122
(Next door to the Boxing Club)
Hi, Neighbor...
L E T ’ S  C O N N E C T  
@ COSTA VERDE
Join us for a community open house to  
help reimagine a better Costa V erde Center.
S H A R E  I D E A S ,  F R E E  P I Z Z A ,  
ICE CREAM AND MORE!
T raducción al  
español disponible  
a solicitud.For more information:  
Facebook.com/CostaVerdeSD  
CostaVerdeCenter.comLA JOLLA VILLAGE DR.G
EN
ESEE AV
E.REGENTS RD.
NOBEL DR.COSTA  
VERDE
CENTEREngland has always been a haven for academics, a portrait of scholars hurrying 
through the streets of Oxford or Cambridge to announce groundbreaking discoveries in 
local pubs. So, it would make sense then to study abroad in a culture that holds the same 
— if not more — opportunities for eager students that it’s held for intellectuals through -
out history. 
UCSD currently o ffers a Global Seminar, “Pirates in Britain, ” that ful fills two courses: 
“HILD 2AGS: Survey of Early American History” and “HIUS 133GS: The Golden Age of 
Piracy. ” The course spans the length of Summer Session II, o ffering a brief but intensive 
immersion in a culture sure to o ffer more than iconic clock towers and red telephone 
booths. However, studying in England doesn’t limit you to London. Immerse yourself in 
university life in cities like Bristol or Manchester via a personalized UCEAP program and 
easily explore the country by train or coach. England’s advanced transit system allows for 
convenient, a ffordable travel, transforming quick study breaks into opportunities for rich 
cultural experiences. Y ou don’t have to learn a new language to appreciate what England 
has to o ffer — simply grab your umbrella and start sightseeing.
—  karl y  nisson
Contributing WriterEngland - London
If you can’t choose between the city life and living with nature, instead have both 
by taking a safari trip to make friends with a kangaroo and enjoying the world-famous 
Sydney Opera House in one of Australia’s largest cities the next day. Anything you 
could want, Australia has. As an island country surrounded on all sides by the ocean, 
Australia o ffers all possible beach activities and a multitude of outback adventures at 
the same time — you won’t miss La Jolla. One will never tire of meeting the citizens of 
the diverse country of Australia.
This year, students have the option of studying at schools such as the University of 
Melbourne and the University of New South Wales. Students can focus on their speci fic field 
of study, such as ecological studies, studio art or Asia-Paci fic regional studies. Additionally, 
programs such as Paci fic Island Environmental and Community Health allow students who 
are interested in research to gain hands-on experience. The Marine Biology and Terrestrial 
Ecology program at the University of Queensland’s School of Biological Sciences gives 
students the chance to work in first-rate labs and study natural areas such as the Great 
Barrier Reef, the largest living organism in the world.
Since the majority of Australian citizens speak English, students will find it easier to 
associate with native Australians and form global relationships. For opportunities to visit and 
study internationally recognized biologic sites, encounter a kangaroo and be exposed to new 
perspectives and cultures, Australia is a must-visit destination.
—  soo  yun  p ark
Senior Staff WriterAustralia - SydneyObviously, France is an appealing location to be in a study abroad program — but 
not just because it and its capital have been cultural epicenters of the Western world 
for hundreds of years. The Opportunities Abroad Program o ffers several ways to stay 
in France, but the one that o ffers the most opportunities is through the Council on 
International Education Exchange. Its French programs are all homestay, and the GPA 
requirement for getting in isn’t particularly stringent at 2.75 minimum. The relative 
lack of rigor should also leave some time to explore, since Paris has the Louvre, the 
catacombs and countless other sights, while locations in more rural parts of France 
have castles, wineries and hiking.
The campus that might appeal most to STEM majors would be Toulouse Business 
School, which is located in the European center for aerospace engineering. It’s also the 
only location that doesn’t require any prior knowledge of French. French programs usually 
favor arts and humanities majors, and the Paris and Rennes programs especially cater to 
this. Studying the French language is central to their curricula, especially in Paris, so prior 
knowledge of the language is essential. If you do choose to apply, bon chance and have fun.
—  kyle  somers
Associate Features EditorFrance - Paris
A country featuring Buddhist temples, great beaches and fantastic culture,       
Thailand is “a land of smiles. ” You can find thick jungles, clear blue waters and mouth -
watering food. From traditional Buddhist festivals such as Wisakha Bucha, commem -
orating the birth, enlightenment and death of Buddha, to sights such as The Grand 
Palace, saying that there is “not much to do” would be an egregious understatement. 
The Thai language may be di fficult to master; while most Thai people speak English, 
many of the locals recommend trying to learn a new language. 
Students can take classes taught in English such as business administration, eco -
nomics, international relations and more at Thammasat University through EAP . In 
addition, classes in population and health issues of the Thai-Burma border are o ffered 
for those interested in the public health field. There, you can find everything from 
the Krabi province, one of the most famous beach destinations in the country, to the 
bustling city of Bangkok; you will find beautiful temples and incredible food during 
the fall or spring terms of your study. Thailand is the place for students who are both 
nature lovers and urban dwellers alike.
—  al vin  chan
Staff WriterThailand - Bangkok8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 2, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEATURES
I come from near London, 
England, and I studied abroad 
last year at UCSD.
It may seem strange, but there are 
those to whom even the idea of San 
Diego seems impossibly exotic, and 
the prospect of actually living there is 
nothing short of ideal. It did not take 
long a fter I landed, though, to find 
that life in California is, more or less, 
as turbulent as it is anywhere else. I 
lived o ff campus — against my will 
— in a dark Trieste apartment, and 
for the first three weeks in September 
and October I slept on the floor. This 
was, perhaps not surprisingly, my 
lowest point. But from the moment 
I won a mattress on a coin toss — 
literally — to the day I flew home in 
July, my time at UCSD was the best I 
have ever spent. It gave me a taste of 
how good life can be and one that I 
will forever be trying to regain.  
I didn’t know what a burrito 
was before I le ft for California; now, 
I lament that we don’t yet have a 
Chipotle in my hometown. I had 
no idea of the friendliness I would 
encounter from just about everyone 
I met in America; I look for the same 
happiness in strangers on the London 
Underground, and I don’t find it. It 
may be that you take the things you 
love about UCSD for granted, but I 
implore you not to do so. Those are 
the things that, as I sit here in England, 
I still can’t get out of my mind. 
If you are reading this on campus, I 
am writing to you from more than 5,000 
miles away. I think that is an almost 
unthinkably wonderful connection, and 
it is made possible by one of the UCSD 
institutions that made my time studying 
abroad so ful filling: it’s a free, student-
run newspaper. The Guardian is yet 
another thing that we should appreciate 
while we can, and while it’s truly ours.
I have recommended studying 
abroad to everybody who will listen to 
me here at home, and in doing so I have 
tried to keep my own experience alive 
for as long as I can. Perspective 
from Across 
the Pond
by Sam Thoburn // Guest WriterMexico - Mexico City
If you thought the Mexican food in San Diego was something to boast about, wait until you try the Mexican food in Mexico. 
Mexico City prides itself as being one of the largest economically metropolitan areas in the world and has become one of 
the most prominent cultural hubs in the Americas. The city showcases 13th-century Aztec temples, collections of museums 
that play host to world-class international art exhibits and, of course, the cuisine. It is known for having some of the fresh -
est seafood in Mexico. Despite being fairly inland from the coast, it is home to the second-largest seafood market a fter Japan. 
Students choosing to study abroad in Mexico will be given the opportunity to attend the National Autonomous University of 
Mexico, the largest and most-recognized university in Latin America. Alternatively, students have the opportunity of taking 
part in a Global Seminar, conducting field research or completing needed coursework. Whether you choose to go for the fall, 
spring, summer or year-long programs, the culture and diversity of Mexico City will make you wish you didn’t have to leave.
by James Lommer// Contributing Writer
Turkey - Istanbul
If you’re in search of rich history, mouth-watering food selections and a city skyline that’s bound to make your jaw drop, then 
Turkey is the place for you. Bogazici University, located in Istanbul, is considered one of the best universities in the entire 
country and is located in one of the most beautiful cities in all of Europe and Western Asia. The university o ffers an array of 
courses in the arts and sciences, as well as a Turkish language course for UCEAP students. The city truly comes to life where it 
straddles the Bosphorus strait, a channel of water just under two miles wide that separates Europe and Asia. It is surrounded 
by palaces on the water’s edge, delicious food on every corner and an abundance of architecture spanning from structures built 
under the Byzantine Empire to more contemporary buildings, such as the Istanbul Modern Art Museum and the Bosphorus 
Bridge. Being idle in the city isn’t an issue most people encounter. There’s a good chance you’ll be overwhelmed by the beauty 
of this remarkable city which tends to happen to most who visit.
by James Lommer// Contributing Writer
South Africa - Cape Town
Want to go abroad, but don’t feel comfortable speaking a foreign language? Cape Town, South Africa is the place for you. 
Situated at the southern tip of Africa, Cape Town is a mostly English-speaking city, although the locals speak Afrikaans.
Though many Americans know about the Apartheid era, when the country was gripped by racial discrimination, few know 
about the new South Africa, a country de fined by its multi-ethnic heritage. 
 “Cape Town is a cosmopolitan city in which you can eat Thai food one day and an ostrich steak the next, ” said ERC junior 
Sean Pfei ffer, who travelled to Cape Town in Summer 2015.
To experience history, visit Robben Island, the site of Nelson Mandela’s imprisonment. Outside of the city, go on a Safari 
and see all of the African wildlife you’ve only seen in zoos.
Cape Town has a Mediterranean climate that is similar to that of San Diego. Being in the southern hemisphere, South 
Africa experiences its winter during our summer months, so be sure to pack for cooler weather.
This coming spring quarter, students can study at the University of Cape Town with EAP . The university focuses on provid -
ing an international education in humanities, commerce, health sciences and engineering.
by Oliver Kelton// Contributing Writer
Greece - Athens
Classical sculptures. Volcanic sand and clear blue waters. Archeological structures. Mediterranean cuisine. If any of these 
words attract you, then Greece may be the perfect place for you. While its economic reputation has been declining, the 
country is still a premier destination for tourists. The culture has evolved over thousands of years through the in fluence of the 
Roman Empire and its Greek Eastern continuation. It is also the birthplace of Western culture that created an ideal of beauty 
that strongly in fluenced Western art. Greek cuisine, characteristic of a healthy Mediterranean diet, consists of local dishes such 
as moussaka, Greek salad and souvlaki. 
This summer, UCSD o ffers two Global Seminars in Athens: “MMW 14: Modern Greece” and “Drugs, Behavior and the 
History of Neuroscience in Greece. ” Both focus on the cultures of Greece, but they look at them from a historical point of view 
and medical perspective. The programs begin at the end of June, and last through the month of July. 
Perhaps, a fter visiting Greece, your love for Santorini’s will grow. Or not.
by Alvin Chan// Staff WriterFind Your Destination:
CHECK OUT OUR 
CONTENT ONLINE
ucsdguardian.org
NEWS - OPINION - FEATURES
ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT 
LIFESTYLE - SPORTSCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 2, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
BEAT CONNECTION W/ PHANTOMS AND EMAELSAT, 11.07 • 8pm TahrirCAMPUS
CALENDAR
NOV 2 - NOV 82015 POWERED BY THE CHANCELLOR’S OFFICE AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guardian
Calenda r
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdg uardian.orgWED 11.04 TUE 11.03
11am
BODY COMPOSITION - THE ZONE
Walk in for your free analysis which includes: body 
weight, percentage body fat, total body water, and 
blood pressure. One free assessment per quarter is 
available to registered UCSD students.
3pm
THE REAL WORLD CAREER SERIES: 
NETWORKING 101 - CROSS-CULTURAL CENTER
Learn how to engage with employers. Practice 
networking skills in a mock-professional setting. 
Sharpen your 30-second elevator speech and build 
confidence. Professional attire is encouraged. Heavy 
hor'dourves will be provided.
5pm
GLOBAL FORUM SPEAKER SERIES - THE GREAT 
HALL AT I-HOUSE
This year's Global Forum events cohere around the 
thematic of global citizenship. In thinking about 
global citizenship, we begin the fall quarter with a 
set of questions: How does one become a global 
citizen? How do different stakeholders in different 
geopolitical, cultural, and social milieus understand 
and operationalize the idea of 'global citizenship? 
Finally, what does global citizenship look like in 
terms of actions? We hope each of this quarter's 
events help our audiences approach these questions 
with new insights. While we are not looking to 
assemble a selection of 'correct' answers, we are 
interested in complementing and complicating the 
ways UCSD and San Diego communities answer 
these questions, and we hope our speakers keep 
them in mind while preparing their remarks.
SUN 11.08
8am
CHALLENGE COURSE FACILITATOR TRAINING - 
UCSD CHALLENGE COURSE
Learn how to facilitate a group through a meaningful 
experience of team building, problem solving and 
group processing. This training program focuses on 
the core competencies necessary for facilitators on 
the UC San Diego Challenge Course. The training will 
offer a combination of technical safety skills and 
facilitation skills of working with individuals and 
groups. If you are interested, please complete a 
facilitator application at the link belowFRI11.06
12pm
INTERNATIONAL FRIDAY CAFE - 
INTERNATIONAL CENTER PATIO 
The Friday Cafe provides a venue where 
international and domestic students, scholars, 
faculty, staff and the local community can come 
together to celebrate cultural diversity and 
international education. Each week the Friday 
Cafe presents the opportunity to explore world 
cultures, cuisines, music and more. Join us for 
this unique international experience! Price: $5 per 
plate
5pm
THE 2015 SAN DIEGO ASIAN FILM FESTIVAL 
COMES TO UC SAN DIEGO - CALIT2 
ATKINSON AUD
The biggest showcase of Asian cinema on the 
west coast is once again on the UCSD campus. 
For the the fourth straight year, the festival is 
showcasing the diversity and achievements of 
Taiwanese cinema with the Taiwan Film 
Showcase. Highlights of the festival's UCSD 
events include a panel on Asian Americans in 
digital media featuring BuzzFeed's Eugene Lee 
Yang, a documentary by UCSD alumnus Alvin 
Tsang, and mega Taiwanese box office hit The 
Wonderful Wedding with director Huang 
Chao-liang scheduled to attend
6pm
MOOLIGHT KAYAK MISSION BAY - OUTBACK 
ADVENTURES
Imagine: Mission Bay, calm as glass, paddle drips 
break the reflections of the moon and city lights 
above the bay. This is a San Diego experience not 
to be missed. After a quick drive to the bay we 
will have a short skills session, launch for the 
sunset and enjoy the moonlit paddle. No 
experience required.
7pm
HUNGER GAMES: SPARKING AN 
INTERNATIONAL REVOLUTION - STUDENT 
SERVICES CENTER, MULTIPURPOSE RM
The Six Colleges Present: Screening: Mockingjay 
Part One Learn how the films have inspired 
worldwide revolutions and win tickets to see 
Mockingjay Part Two!11:30am
FLU SHOT CLINIC @ THE ZONE - THE ZONE
Cost of vaccine is FREE for students with SHIP . 
Costs for students without SHIP: Injectable: $15 
Intranasal: $25
5pm
GLOBAL SEMINAR: URBANISM AND ASIAN 
AMERICAN IDENTITY IN KOREA - 
INTERNATIONAL CENTER LOUNGE
Interested in studying abroad in Seoul, Korea next 
summer? Come to the info session to learn more 
about this amazing program!
7pm
OUTREACH TRIVIA NIGHTS - MIDDLE OF MUIR 
(MOM)
FOOD, FACTS, FRIENDS, & FUN! Come to Middle of 
Muir "MOM" (Below Pines) to meet new people and 
test your knowledge of various trivia categories! 
Free entry to all UCSD students and prizes for 
winning team! Make this a weekly event and turn 
up the competition! Happy hour prices on food and 
drinks for trivia participants! All students are 
welcome! Come as a team or by yourself! Contact: 
sheld@ucsd.edu
THU 11.05
10am
MEDITATION - THE ZONE
Join us for a guided meditation where you can: 
-Gain greater mental clarity -Achieve a peaceful 
state of being -Learn techniques to de-stress 
-Achieve harmony amid cognitive dissonance 
Workshop led by: a UCSD Recreation Instructor
1:30pm
THERAPY FLUFFIES - THE ZONE
Come de-stress and play with certified therapy dogs 
at The Zone!
3pm
R&R QUAD - THE ZONE
Drop-in and get a low intensity back rub from the 
R&R Squad!
3pm
PASSPORT TO CULTURE: SINGAPORE - 
INTERNATIONAL HOUSE-CUZCO LOUNGE
Earn your passport and "travel to Singapore"! Learn 
about life and culture from current students who 
have lived and studied in various regions of the 
world. Enjoy a traditional taste of food from the 
highlighted region each week!  Week 6 "Passport to 
Culture" will highlight Singapore!
7pm
FREE CHINA: THE COURAGE TO BELIEVE - 
PRICE CENTER THEATRE
This is the story of two individuals who were 
persecuted and enslaved in Chinaâ   s labor camps 
for their spiritual beliefs. Free China: The courage to 
Believe sheds light on current human rights 
atrocities occurring in China today including the 
persecution and organ harvesting of Falun Dafa 
meditators as well as other prisoners of conscience: 
Tibetan Buddhists, Christians and human rights 
activists. Representing the tens of millions of 
persecuted Falun Dafa meditators, who comprise 
65% of all prisons, labor camps, and detention 
centers across China, Jennifer and Charles, give you 
a glimpse of the horror that occurs in the shadows 
of the Communist regime in China and how this 
affects us living on the West. Free admission. 
Everyone is welcome.MON 11.02
5pm
AA CAMPUS MEETING - THE ZONE
Open AA Meeting held at the Zone every Monday 
from 5:00 PM- 6:00 PM. Questions? Contact the 
Zone at zone@ucsd.edu
5pm
FILM SERIES: RELIGION AND THE BODY - 
HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCI BLDG., RM 1128
This film series explores themes of religion and the 
body. The series opens with Lars Von Trier's 
"Breaking the Waves," an emotionally and 
spiritually challenging film that hammers at 
conventional morality. The series is hosted by 
Professor Dayna Kalleres. Each film presentation 
will be followed by an informal discussion about the 
theme. Open to undergraduates. Free admission. 
Registration/RSVP recommended.
7pm
BLABBERMOUTH - THE LOFT
Have a song or story to share? Blabbermouth is a 
monthly event held at The Loft, giving writers of 
prose, poetry, and fiction, as well as musicians and 
performers a place to share their art. You can sign 
up to perform up to an 8 minute set at the link 
below. Doors: 6:00PM. Show: 7:00PM  FREE
SAT 11.07
8am
CHALLENGE COURSE FACILITATOR TRAINING - 
UCSD CHALLENGE COURSE
Learn how to facilitate a group through a meaningful 
experience of team building, problem solving and 
group processing. This training program focuses on 
the core competencies necessary for facilitators on 
the UC San Diego Challenge Course. The training will 
offer a combination of technical safety skills and 
facilitation skills of working with individuals and 
groups. 
1pm
THE 2015 SAN DIEGO ASIAN FILM FESTIVAL 
COMES TO UC SAN DIEGO - CALIT2 ATKINSON 
AUD
The biggest showcase of Asian cinema on the west 
coast is once again on the UCSD campus. For the the 
fourth straight year, the festival is showcasing the 
diversity and achievements of Taiwanese cinema with 
the Taiwan Film Showcase. Highlights of the festival's 
UCSD events include a panel on Asian Americans in 
digital media featuring BuzzFeed's Eugene Lee Yang, 
a documentary by UCSD alumnus Alvin Tsang, and 
mega Taiwanese box office hit The Wonderful 
Wedding with director Huang Chao-liang scheduled to 
attend.THE LOFT, PRICE CENTER
10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 2, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDS$
Gua rdian Classi fieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedscrossword
Across
1 Bar mixer
9 Long pace
15 Tangy dessert
16 Deceive
17 Sets free
18 In the prior month
19 Precisely
20 Shrek, for one
22 Beat overwhelmingly
24 Taxing mo.?
25 Title role for 13-Down
30 Riled (up)
31 Has much too much, briefly
33 Self-centered types
35 Jerusalem prayer site
37 Negri of silents
41 Pelota catcher
42 Buck tail?
43 Unrestricted trading areas
46 Le Car maker
47 “Michael Collins” actor
48 Spaniards roll theirs
51 Easy gaits
52 UFO pilots, in theory
54 Discover with effort
56 Wild West showman
58 Edge (out)
59 Community west of Montebello, Calif.
63 Unwavering
67 Bureau compartment
68 Like much of Rossini’s work
69 Groups of eight
70 Lunch order that can follow the starts 
of 1-, 35- and 43-Across
Down
1 Shifting mechanism
2 Lost love in “The Raven”
3 Düsseldorf feature?4 Cowboy’s footwear
5 __-cone
6 Brief photo sessions?
7 Craps cube
8 Man of many morals
9 Disparaging remark
10 1977 Bronson/Remick mind-control 
thriller
11 Stoolie
12 First name in tyranny
13 Actor DeLuise
14 Rock producer Brian
21 Hosts, at times
23 “And __!”: “Absolutely!”
24 Said positively
26 Former Sanyo competitor
27 Russian despot
28 WWII French battle site
29 Nobel Peace Prize city
32 Window sticker
34 Prepare Parmesan
36 “Mustn’t do that”
37 Computer connection
38 Letters near zero?
39 O’Brien’s predecessor
40 Med school subj.
44 Like Mr. America
45 Melancholy
48 Rabbitlike rodent
49 Backwoodsy
50 Soapbox output
53 Greenhorns
55 Marriage acquisition
57 Propellers on ponds
59 Tokyo, once
60 Pendulum path
61 Met
62 Defunct flier
64 AQI user
65 One of a D.C. 100
66 Former Monterey Bay fortBIKES
2013 3700 D 18 Metallic Black/True Blue - 
$500. Barely used (only rode 8 mis). Have 
the receipts. Bought from Trek in La Mesa. 
Listing ID: 201502823 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Trek Navigator Hybrid Commuter Bike - 
$175. Exceptional condition. Size: 18.5 
aluminum frame. Shimano Deore compo -
nents. Adjustable front suspension shocks. 
Tires are in like new condition enduro tires. 
Bike was only used for a few rides here 
and there and was always stored inside 
the house so it’s in really clean condition 
without any rust. The paint looks really nice 
still. Tuned up before I put it up for sale, 
so it’s ready to go. Listing ID: 201502822 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
2011 Santa Cruz Driver 8 - $2500. Size 
medium. Attractive condition. Mud flap, 
smaller front sprocket for climbing. Listing 
ID: 201502817 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
ELECTRONICS
Turtle Beach Headset - $75. Like new. Only 
used to try it out since bought. Works great, 
just don’t use them or need them. Paid 
$120 and they are $110 on Amazon. Also 
works on Xbox 1. Listing ID: 201503326 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
informationHP Inkjet Print Cartridges - $125. New, 
never opened. Four number 57 tricolor 
print cartridges and one number 56 black 
print cartridge. Listing ID: 201503323 at 
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Brother fax, copier and phone - $10. Never 
used. Still in original packaging. Listing ID: 
201503321 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
AUTO
99 Saturn - Selling as is. Starts right up. 
Runs. Occasional shifting issue needs work. 
Listing ID: 201793287 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Chevrolet Nova - $13650. Very clean, stock 
looking 1967 Nova SS. It is a true 118, fac -
tory 4-speed car. The car is not numbers 
matching, but is still an amazingly beauti -
ful example of a 2nd generation Nova. 
You’d be hard-pressed to build an imme -
diately enjoyable, drivable and solid car 
like this for the price. Listing ID: 201791937 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Monroe OESpectrum Shocks - $15. Selling 
two rear Monroe OESpectrum shocks that 
came off my 1998 Toyota Tacoma Pickup 
Truck. I replaced the front shocks and 
decided to replace all four. These shocks 
are still in good shape so make me an offer. 
Listing ID: 201792283 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
t
your vision,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel to 
promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!www.ucsdguardian.org/advertisingGET INVOLVED!
as.ucsd.eduJoin the
Associated Studentsasucsd asucsdAssociated Students at UC San Diego 
serves as the voice of the students, 
encouraging communication and unity within 
the campus community through leadership, 
advocacy, and various services.
For more information on how to get involved, 
visit as.ucsd.edu
For mo re info, visit as.ucsd .edu
MORE INFO AT SOVAC.UCSD.EDU/REGISTERwhat do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 2, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
Social
Power
HourSocial
Power
Hour
FREE GAMES, MUSIC, AND FOOD!FREE GAMES, MUSIC, AND FOOD!
FIRST COME, FIRST SERVEd
FIRST COME, FIRST SERVEd
DATESDATES
AND ALSOAND ALSO
WHEN AND WHEREWHEN AND WHERE
PC COMMUTER
LOUNGE
NOV 19  & DEC. 35PMNOV 5UCSD’s senior Clayton Y amaguchi 
won his first-ever collegiate 
tournament at the Dennis Rose 
Invitational at the W aikoloa Beach 
Resort Kings’ Course on Hawaii’s Big 
Island. UCSD placed third as a team 
on Saturday a fter finishing the first 
day of the competition Friday in 
second. No. 8 Cal State Monterey Bay 
won it all, followed by Wilmington in 
second place.
Day One
Y amaguchi hit a 70 to open the 
day on Friday on the par-72 course. 
He followed that up with a 69 in the 
second round, bringing his total to 
a 5-under par (139). Y amaguchi was 
tied for fourth a fter one round of 
competition but took sole possession 
of first place at the end of the day. He 
was two strokes ahead of Wilmington’s 
junior Sam Clark (141) in second while 
Cal State Monterey Bay’s junior Fredrik 
Jullum, senior Ray Richards and senior 
Carr Vernon were three strokes away, 
all tied for third with a count of 142.
As a team, UCSD shot a 298 in the 
first round and moved up to second 
with a 293 in the second round, two 
strokes ahead of Saint Martin’s and 
Wilmington, both tied for third with 
a 593. UCSD’s 591 was 20 strokes over 
Cal State Monterey Bay’s field best 
5-under 571. 
Tritons senior Je ff Roseth was tied 
for 12th a fter one day (148), senior 
Daniel Y ang tied for 33rd (152), 
freshman Jake Haselden tied for 38th 
(154) and  sophomore Grant Amerson 
was tied for 42nd (155).
Day Two
Y amaguchi shot 70 again on Saturday in the third round to win the 
individual title, while UCSD finished 
third out of 10 a fter the second day of 
the tournament. 
Yamag u ch i  finished with a 209 (7 
under par) to earn his first collegiate 
win. 
“I worked really hard this summer 
preparing for the season and was 
playing really well heading into the 
school year, ” Y amaguchi told the UCSD 
Athletics Department. “Unfortunately, 
when school started, I kind of lost 
things and wasn’t playing very well. I 
really had to grind these last few weeks, 
and the hard work paid o ff.”
Cal State Monterey Bay’s Jullum 
finished two strokes behind Y amaguchi 
with a 211, 5 under par. Richards 
finished third with a total of 212, 4 
under par.
UCSD dropped from second to 
third a fter shooting a 294 on the final 
day. The Tritons finished with an 
885, 21-over par, as a team. Cal State 
Monterey Bay won with a total of 852 
(-12). Wilmington finished second at 
879 (+15), a strong 27 strokes behind 
Monterey Bay.
Roseth tied for 13th (220), Y ang 
was 28th (225), Haselden tied for 41st 
(233) and Amerson was 47th (236) for 
the Tritons.
“This week in Hawaii has been a 
lot of fun for the team, ” Y amaguchi 
said. “W alking away with a victory is 
something I’ll never forget. ”
UCSD is now done with its fall 
season. Next time the Tritons will see 
a competition is Feb. 8 to Feb. 9, at the 
Cougar Invitational hosted by Cal State 
San Marcos at Shadowridge in Vista.MEN'S  GOLF
First-Ever Collegiate Win
Clayton Y amaguchi wins the Dennis Rose Invitational.WOMEN'S   VOLLEYBALL
UCSD women’s volleyball hosted 
a pair of California Collegiate Athletic 
Association rivals on Friday and 
Saturday night at RIMAC Arena. The 
Tritons emerged victorious in both 
games, defeating Cal Poly Pomona 
three sets to one on Friday night and 
blanking Cal State Monterey Bay three 
sets to zero on Saturday night. UCSD 
moved up in sole possession of third 
place in the CCAA with a 15–9 overall 
record and an 11–5 CCAA record.  
Game One
The UCSD women’s volleyball 
team defeated Cal Poly Pomona 3–1 
on Friday evening at home at RIMAC 
Arena. The team dominated Cal Poly 
25–11, 14–25, 25–14 and 25–17, 
winning three sets by more than eight 
points.  
The Tritons had a hot start, posting 
the highest hitting number of the 
match in the first set, swinging at a .433 
(15–2–30). The Tritons dominated 
right out of the gate in the first set and 
disposed of Pomona 25–11. It took the 
Broncos one set to get going o ffensively 
as they hit .026 (8–7–38) in the first set 
and then hit an excellent .429 (20–2–
42) in the remainder of the game. This 
offensive performance allowed them 
to take the second set 25–14 to level 
the game at one set each. However, 
UCSD continued to push and ended 
up out-hitting Cal Poly Pomona .280 
(52–12–143) to .160 (49–23–163), 
taking the third and fourth sets 25–14 
and 25–17.
Junior outside hitter Meagan 
Wright led the way for the Tritons with 
19 kills and 17 digs. Wright has now put together 15 double-doubles for 
the season. She hit .500 with only one 
error in 36 attacks.
Senior middle blocker Kameron 
Cooper had 13 kills for the Tritons, 
and senior setter Heidi Sierks had 46 
assists and a team-leading 17 digs 
for her 15th double-double, just like 
Wright, tying her for the most on the 
team. Sophomore libero Amanda 
Colla had 11 digs, and freshman libero 
Kayla Evans pitched in 15.
Danielle Dahle, the reigning CCCA 
Player of the Week, added 12 digs, six 
kills, an assist and an ace.
“We have changed our mindset, ” 
Cooper told the UCSD Athletics 
Department. “We came into this game 
speci fically with a 4–0 record, and we 
just said, ‘ This is our house, and we 
defend it. ’”
Cal Poly Pomona was lead by 
sophomore outside hitter Deanna 
Blaine’s 15 kills and senior libero 
Zoe Herrera’s match-high 29 digs. 
UCSD maintained an 8–4 advantage 
in blocks.
Game Two
Wright had another great game as 
UCSD beat Cal State Monterey Bay in 
straight sets 25–13, 25–15 and 25–23 
Saturday at RIMAC Arena. Wright had 
19 kills and 17 digs to lead the Tritons.
UCSD, with their sixth-consecutive 
win, improved to a 15–9 overall record 
and an 11–5 record in the CCAA, 
solidly installed in third place in the 
league. Cal State Monterey Bay is in 
a slump as they su ffered another loss, 
bringing their record to 5–16 overall 
and 4–12 in CCAA play.
UCSD continued its strong 
offensive performance from recent 
weeks. With the score tied at nine in 
the first set, UCSD went on a 15-to-three run to close out the first set. In 
the second set, UCSD distanced itself 
from Cal State Monterey Bay early and 
never let them catch up, clinching a 
two-to-zero set lead. In the final set, 
the Tritons had an early 17–13 lead 
but could not hold on to it. The Otters 
battled back, even taking a 22–20 lead 
over the Tritons. UCSD held strong 
and used a five-to-one run to clinch. 
Wright was strong once again , 
hitting .441 with only four errors in 34 
attacks, along with 19 kills and 17 digs. 
Wright has 16 double-doubles this 
season and has tallied up at least 10 
kills in 22 of 24 matches played. Sierks 
had 30 assists and 10 digs. Senior 
outside hitter Jessica Malcolm led Cal 
State Monterey Bay with eight kills, 
and senior libero Rachel Cookus had 
a match-leading 21 digs.
UCSD hit .210 (40–15–119) to 
Cal State Monterey Bay’s .033 (27–
23–123). The Tritons had a 65–55 
lead in digs.
It was senior night for the Tritons 
and their last regular season home 
game. Four Tritons were honored at 
the end of the game: Cooper, Sierks, 
libero Bailey Turk and Dahle, the all-
time leader in kills for the Tritons.
“They are some of the friendliest 
people that I know, and they have 
some of the best team chemistry, ” 
Wright told the UCSD Athletics 
Department. “It helps when the team 
is really playing well. I’m just trying to 
help my team in any way I can. ”
The Tritons play their last four 
regular-season games on the road. Next 
week, they head to Cal State Stanislaus 
on Nov. 6 and Chico State on Nov. 7.UCSD Dominates Conference Rivals
Tritons get revenge on Cal Poly Pomona before blanking Cal State Monterey Bay.CONTACT THE EDITOR
MARCUS THUILLIER
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 2, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
After going 2–0 against Cal State San Marcos 
and Chico State, the UCSD women’s soccer 
team continued its hot streak in a rematch 
against California Collegiate Athletic Association 
rival Cal State San Marcos with a 2–0 win on Friday 
night. The Tritons are now 12–5–1 overall and the 
No. 4 seed heading into the CCAA tournament, while 
the Cougars fell to 3–9–5 to cap o ff t h e i r  s e a s o n .
Both teams’ defenses held strong as the game 
remained scoreless for the first 45 minutes. However, 
while the Tritons were unable to come away with 
any points, they kept the Cougars on their toes 
with nine shot attempts against the Cougars’ four. 
Cal State San Marcos redshirt sophomore goalie 
Erica Dory was a thorn in the Tritons’ side as she 
held her ground with five saves in the first period. 
The second period was a di fferent story for the 
Tritons. At the 64-minute mark, UCSD sophomore 
forward Katie O’Laughlin put the team up with a 
shot from just outside the penalty area. The goal 
was her seventh of the season and was assisted by 
defenders Meghan Berry, a redshirt junior, and true 
junior Kristen Sampietro. The Tritons strengthened 
their lead at the 81st minute when their sophomore 
midfielder Taylor Ramos scored her first goal of the 
season on a right-footed shot into the le ft corner off o f  a n  a s s i s t  b y  f r e s h m a n  f o rw a r d  M a ry  R e i l l y .
Other than a missed header by sophomore 
defender Megan Randig, the Cougars could not 
match any of the Tritons’ aggression, as they only had 
four shot attempts in the second period compared to 
UCSD’s 10. UCSD led the shot count for the entire 
game, 19 to the Cougars’ eight, as the Cougars were 
blanked for the fifth-straight game. O’Laughlin 
and Ramos led the Tritons with four shots each, 
and the team took a season-high 12 corner kicks. 
Thanks to the team’s ball control, UCSD’s senior 
goalie Kelcie Brodsky didn’t have much work to do;  she 
only needed one save to notch her eighth individual 
shutout of the season and the 27th of her career.   
“We’ve just been getting better and better as the 
season goes by, ” Brodsky told the UCSD Athletics 
Department. “I see great things for this team. ”
Up next, fourth-seed UCSD hosts the fifth-seed 
Cal Poly Pomona in the first round of the CCAA 
tournament on Nov. 3. Third-seed Cal State Los 
Angeles will host sixth-seed Cal State Stanislaus, 
while top-seed Sonoma State and regular season 
runner-up Chico State get a first-round bye.
bi-weekl y
summar y
Senior Clayton 
Y amaguchi picked up his 
first collegiate win at the 
Dennis Rose Invitational.
UCSD Golf placed third 
as a team at the Dennis 
Rose Invitational.
Men’s soccer inherited the 
sixth seed in the CCAA 
tournament and will 
play at Cal State Los 
Angeles on Tuesday.
Senior two-meter Tyler 
Mancuso scored three-
straight goals in the 
third quarter to put 
the Tritons de finitively 
ahead.1
3
6
3
UCSD
Santa Clara9 - 5
WOMEN'S
VOLLEYBALLMEN'S
W A TER  POLO
11 25 14 17
13 15 23UCSD
UCSDCal Poly Pomona
CSU Monterey Bay25 14 25 25
25 25 25
No. 17 UCSD men’s water polo 
team put away a 9–5 upset against No. 
16 Santa Clara University this past 
Thursday, breaking through a 2–2 
deadlock and outscoring the Broncos 
7–3 in the second half to secure the 
victory. The Tritons improved to an 
11–11 overall record and 4–1 in the 
Western Water Polo Association, 
while Santa Clara fell to 9–16 overall 
and 1–2 in the WWPA.
The Broncos’ redshirt sophomore 
driver John Raineri hit the target 
first within 28 seconds of play to put 
his team at a one-point advantage. 
UCSD’s junior driver Nick Alexander 
then responded with two fast goals 
of his own, ending the first period 
strongly for the Tritons.However, the Bronco o ffense 
shut down any Triton attempts to 
score in the second frame. Redshirt 
sophomore driver DeMarco Orella 
fired one into the back of the cage 
to equalize, leaving the teams at 2–2 
going into the half.
UCSD rebounded in the third 
quarter, putting away six shots and 
limiting Santa Clara to just one to 
take a massive five-point lead. Senior 
two-meter Tyler Mancuso found the 
back of the cage three consecutive 
times; senior utility Daniel Straub, 
junior utility Nassim Hmeidan and 
senior utility Chase Cockerill each 
put away one.
“I de finitely hit some rough 
patches early in the season with 
[my] knee injury, ” Mancuso told the 
UCSD Athletics Department. “ There 
was de finitely a lot of anxiety about 
that, but I just came to practice every day and put the work in, and it feels 
really good to see that work pay o ff 
in the end. ” 
The Broncos attempted to stage a 
comeback in the fourth, but despite outscoring the Tritons 2–1, Santa 
Clara could not overcome the de ficit, 
leaving UCSD with a decisive 9–5 win 
when the final buzzer sounded.
Mancuso notched his fourth hat trick of the season this game, leading 
the Triton o ffense with three goals. 
Alexander followed close behind 
with two of his own. Redshirt 
freshman goalkeeper Jack Turner 
held strong in the cage, amassing 11 
saves in the game.
“I think we can move forward 
with having beaten Santa Clara, ” 
Mancuso said. “ I think it’s going to 
give us that motivation to come back 
to practice this week and put the work 
in that we need to beat a solid team, 
[UC Davis]. ”
UCSD will close its conference 
schedule out against UC Davis on 
Thursday, Nov. 5. The winner of 
that game will go into the WWPA 
Championship on Nov. 20 to Nov. 22 
as the top seed.MEN'S  W A TER  POLO
UCSD Pulls Off the Upset Over Santa Clara at Canyonview Pool
Behind Tyler Mancuso’s three-straight goals in the third quarter, the Tritons pull away from Santa Clara in the second half on Thursday.SEASON ENDS ON A HIGH NOTE
UCSD enters CCAA Tournament on a three-game winning streak.
BY ALEX WU CONTRIBUTING WRITER // PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE
2UCSD
0San Marcos2UCSD
0San Marcos
0Chico State
4UCSDW. Soccer
M. Soccer
M. Water Polo
W.  Volleyball
Fencing  11/3
  11/3
  11/5
  11/6
  11/7VS Cal Poly Pomona
AT Cal State Los Angeles
VS UC Davis
AT Stanislaus State
VS BladeRunnerUPCOMING
UCSD
GAMES
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE/ GUARDIAN