BIGGEST DROP 
YET
MUIR COLLEGE PREPARES TO 
THROW ITS LARGEST PUMPKIN 
TO DATE OFF THE TIOGA HALL 
ROOF AT THE ANNUAL PUMPKIN 
DROP . WEIGHING 600 POUNDS 
AND FILLED WITH CANDY , IT’S A 
HALLOWEEN CAN’T MISS.
SP ACEX  V S.   NASA
SP ANOS  OPENINGTHE   PRIV A TE  AND  THE  PUBLIC
New  st a te  of  the  ar t  f acilityOPINION,  P age   4
Sports,  P age  12
MONDAY
H 81 L 63TUESDAY 
H 79 L 64
WEDNESDAY
H 77 L 63FRIDAY
H 73 L 59
FORECAST
VERBATIM
IF YOU LOOK LIKE A 
BUFFALO, YOU’RE READY 
FOR HALLOWEEN. ON THE 
BIG DAY , YOUR FIRST TASK IS 
TO OBTAIN AS MUCH CANDY 
AS POSSIBLE. NONE OF 
THAT FUN-SIZED CRAP . GO 
KING-SIZED OR GO HOME. 
THE UNDERGROUND CANDY 
MARKET IS BOOMING...”
- Halloween Rampages
HOW-TO GURU
OPINION , PAGE 4
INSIDE
THINGS TO CONSIDER  .....2
BUZZFEED  ...................... 4
TUNNELS  ........................ 6
CLASSIFIEDS  ................ 10
W. SOCCER....................11“FEA TURES,  P AGE  8PHOTO BY NAME HERE / GUARDIAN
VOLUME 49, ISSUE 10   THURSDA Y , OCTOBER 22, 2015  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
An international team of 
researchers from UCSD and 
India’s IFOM-inSTEM identified 
a new molecule, fibulin-5, as a 
factor contributing to fibrosis. The 
researchers made the announcement 
on Oct. 15 and are aiming to 
eventually develop a more effective 
treatment or cure for fibrosis, 
which according to Colin Jamora, 
a biologist at IFOM - inSTEM and 
one of the study’s lead authors, 
contributes to approximately 30 
percent of deaths worldwide.
Fibrosis is a condition that can 
affect tissues like those of the skin, 
lungs, heart and liver, causing them 
to develop fibrous connective tissues 
which lead to stiffening, swelling and even loss of function. Shyni 
Varghese, a UCSD bioengineering 
professor and one of the study’s lead 
authors, explained that the treatment 
available so far is not ideal.
“One strategy is targeting the 
‘transforming growth factor beta, ’” 
or TGF Beta pathway, and thereby 
interfering with the disease,” 
Varghese told the UCSD Guardian. 
“However, the reality is that it’s not 
a very effective method, which led 
us to think that perhaps there are 
additional pathways that we needed 
to look into and target.“
Prior research has mostly focused 
on the more-abundant protein in 
the skin, collagen, which yielded the 
treatments currently available. This 
study instead focused on elastin — a 
protein that gives skin its elasticity, 
which is the ability to bounce back to its original shape after being 
stretched — and fibulin-5, which 
is responsible for the formation of 
elastin. The team discovered that 
elevated levels of fibulin-5 caused 
elastin to form in abnormally large 
amounts, which correlated with 
subjects afflicted with fibrosis.
Varghese also gave further insight 
into why they decided to target 
elastin specifically in their study.
“There were not many studies 
with elastin, even though elasticity 
is a key protein found in the skin, ” 
Varghese said. “So we decided to 
target elastin and since fibulin-5 
plays a role in elastic fiber assembly, 
we also decided to look into that. ”
Jamora stated that the research 
will result in more comprehensive SAE President Apologizes 
for “Rush Boobs” Incident
Campuswide senator Thadeus Odom read a statement 
from the current president of Sigma Alpha Epsilon 
at the A.S. Council meeting Wednesday night, nearly 
one week after a pledge was caught asking a student to send 
him “rush boobs. ”
SAE president Robbie Wilson’s written statement to A.S. 
Council reiterated that the fraternity’s leaders were unaware 
of the pledge’s actions.
“On the [Sunday before the incident occurred], I asked 
to see the member education portfolio for the current 
quarter and [‘rush boobs’] was not on the outline, ” Wilson 
said in the statement. “Nobody on the executive board 
had any knowledge of this happening. The new member 
educator asked our newest initiated class to do this and only 
one person listened. ”
Wilson apologized to Council and said he felt guilty for 
not being more involved in the member education process 
before the incident occurred.
“I am a leader of this organization and shouldn’t have 
been as complacent as I was, ” Wilson said. “If I went 
[sic] to that first meeting,  I could have prevented this from happening. Furthermore, I could have asked more 
questions when I saw the member education outline last 
Sunday. I am so sorry that this happened and that my 
chapter offended so many people. I blame myself for this 
and therefore, I am putting the effort of change for this 
chapter on my shoulders. ”
He mentioned that SAE had contacted the Women’s 
Center for advice on developing guidelines for educating 
its members and added that the chapter is going to elect 
a diversity and inclusion officer at its next meeting for the 
same reason.
“It’s worth noting that the educational process we adopt 
will be getting national recognition for SAE, meaning that 
our nationals are letting us formulate an education process 
that will take into effect for chapters across the country in 
years to come, ” Wilson explained.
Associate Vice President of Equity, Diversity and 
Inclusion Daniel Juarez told the UCSD Guardian that 
although they appreciated Wilson’s statement, it should not 
be misinterpreted as an end to the ongoing conversation 
about equality.  B Y  Kriti  Sarin   News EditorUC Students 
Protest for 
Increased 
ResourcesUC SYSTEM
Undocumented students 
protested outside President 
Napolitano’s office for more 
voting representation.
BY  L i sa  C h i k
Contributing Writer
See UNDOCUMENTED , page 3Undocumented students from 
across the University of California 
protested how UC President Janet 
Napolitano is handling issues faced by 
undocumented students. More than 
30 students convened outside the UC 
Office of the President in Oakland on 
Oct. 19 to voice their concerns.
According to UCSD’s Migrants 
Rights Awareness student 
organization, the protest is an 
organized way to remind the UCOP of 
the institutionalized wrongs that have 
been affecting undocumented students 
for years.
UCOP agreed to launch a student 
nomination cycle for selecting 
student representatives in the first 
week of October this year, fifth-
year UCLA student Vlad Stoicescu 
Ghica told the Daily Bruin. UCOP’s 
decision to halt these efforts 
prompted the recent demonstration.
When Napolitano took office 
in 2013, she launched a $5 million 
system-wide initiative to enhance 
undocumented student services 
and financial aid. Services include 
academic advising, targeted counseling 
and coordinated campus services 
with community-based resources. 
The funding also provided UC loans, 
work-study opportunities and grants 
to financially needy, undocumented 
students in recognition of the financial 
barriers that they continue to face, 
according to UCOP Media Specialist 
Kate Moser.
UC officials announced in an 
email this month that they would 
pause the incorporation of student-
nominated representatives in order 
to focus efforts on extending legal 
services to undocumented students 
and studying the impact of the $5 
million funding initiative.
“The momentum that 
undocumented student reps in 
the inter-UC coalition have built 
for the past five months has 
culminated to nothing because 
UCOP has arbitrarily decided to 
once again table our concerns and 
recommendations for change,” 
MiRA told the UCSD Guardian.
Moser told the Guardian that 
UCOP staff is collaborating with 
students to address the concerns of 
undocumented students.
“Staff in the Office of the President 
are actively working with the campuses 
and with students to further explore, 
and to implement where appropriate, 
the recommendations identified 
at the [last May’s] summit, ” Moser 
told the Guardian. “The University is 
committed to continuing the dialogue 
with our students. ”
Students walked out of Napolitano’s 
speech at the first-ever UC summit Researchers Discover Fibrosis-Related Molecule
Preventing the formation of fibulin-5 could treat and inhibit the development of the disease.See SAE, page 3
See  FIBROSIS , page 2UCSD
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
BY   M i n g - R a y  L i a o
Contributing Writer
DJ Shneaky, also known as campuswide senator Ryan Perez, performed at the Triton Fest Haunted Hoedown this past 
Saturday. Photo by Megan Lee /UCSD Guardian.2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 26, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
THINGS TO CONSIDER By Sage Schubert Christian and Kyle Somers
DO YOU TWEET? WE DO!
@UCSDGua rdian
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. Kyle doesn ’t know how to spell pumkin. Or manu.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Marketing Director
Laura Chow
Associate Marketing Director
Peter McInnis
Training and Development Manager
Cedric Hyon
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Vincent Pham
Rosina Garcia
Tina Butoiu
Kriti Sarin
Jacky To
Cassia Pollock 
Marcus Thuillier
Allison Kubo
Kyle Somers
Karly Nisson
Brittney Lu
Olga Golubkova
Jonathan Gao
Megan Lee
Joselynn Ordaz
Sherman Aline
Elyse Yang
Christina Carlson
Jennifer GrundmanEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
 
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
Associate Features Editor
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Sherman Aline, Allison Kubo
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim
Editorial Assistants
Sage Schubert Christian, Katie Potts, Christian Duarte
fibrosis treatment in the future.
“Our demonstration that fibrosis 
can be prevented from occurring if 
we remove fibulin-5 from the picture 
offers a novel target, ” Jamora told the 
Guardian. “We believe fibulin-5 to 
be an important component of this 
disease that remains unidentified. This manuscript demonstrates that 
fibulin-5, which is a relatively minor 
component of the population of 
proteins that make up the dermis, 
plays an oversized role in promoting 
fibrosis. ”
Additionally, Jamora indicated that 
the long-term goals of of the research 
are aimed primarily at therapeutics 
such as fibrosis prevention.“We would like to be able to 
control the amount of scar tissue 
that is formed following injury – 
to provide enough scar tissue for 
structural support but limited so 
that it doesn’t become over-scarring 
that can have deleterious effects on 
normal organ function, ” Jamora said. 
Jamora also remarked that the 
findings would be relevant to the cosmetic industry in treating scars.
“The cosmetic industry would be 
interested in the potential scarless 
wound healing as there would be 
no lasting signs of a wound that can 
affect aesthetics and skin beauty, ” 
Jamora said.Scientists Ultimately Want to Manipulate Scar Tissue to Avoid Permanent Skin Damage
▶ FIBROSIS,  from page 1
Ming-Ra y Liao   m4liao@ucsd.edureaders can contactAVERAGE CAT By Christina Carlson
@UCSDGUARDIANItching to 
Double 
Tap?
PHOTO BY JONATHAN GAO/ GUARDIAN
Follow us on Twitter 
Read more atHit 
Us 
Up@UCSDGUARDIAN
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGNEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 26, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
on undocumented students this 
past May to protest her former role 
as secretary of the Department of 
Homeland Security. UC students have 
previously expressed their discontent 
with Napolitano’s role in the DHS, 
knowing that 400,000 immigrants 
were annually deported during her 
four years in the administration, 
according to USA Today.
Following the summit, Ghica 
explained that a student-initiated 
coalition with members from 
each UC campus began work to 
increase student representation on 
the President’s Advisory Council on 
Undocumented Students.
“The council had only two student 
representatives in a council of 18 
people, ” Ghica told the Daily Bruin. 
“Our goal was to increase participation 
of undocumented students in helping make decisions that affect their 
academic lives and opportunities. ”
Funds provided to the UC 
Davis School of Law established a 
pilot legal services center with the 
purpose of serving students with 
immigration-related legal needs at 
UC campuses without law schools, 
including UCSD, UC San Francisco, 
UC Santa Barbara, UC Santa Cruz, 
UC Merced and UC Riverside.
MiRA explained that the 
benefits that the university offers to 
undocumented students are in reality  
ineffective services.
“ Although some well-intentioned 
programs have been established, 
outreach and impact are severely 
lacking due to poor execution and 
coordination of resources, ” MiRA 
said. “The existing infrastructures 
and programs are hidden and 
stigmatized. We recognize the need 
for confidentiality, but the culture perpetuated by current resources at 
UCSD disempowers students. ”
Associate Vice President of the 
Office of Equity, Diversity and Inclusion 
Daniel Juarez expressed his intentions 
to maintain communications with the 
student body.
“I plan to continue listening to 
the concerns and demands of 
undocumented students here at 
UCSD, make sure that I am able to 
stand in solidarity with them and 
help them in any way possible to 
improve the campus environment for 
undocumented students, ” Juarez told 
the Guardian.
UC students will collaborate to 
organize a student summit to address 
undocumented students’ issues 
regardless of whether or not the UCOP 
issues a response, according to Ghica. “What is desperately needed are 
people who will be willing to listen 
to those who want to share their 
experiences, to educate themselves 
and members in their own 
community, and most importantly, 
to change and/or alter their everyday 
practices that may be perpetuating 
racism, sexism, homophobia, 
transphobia, classism, ableism 
etc., ” Juarez said. “I am glad that a 
statement has been made, but now I 
am looking forward to see action — 
action that will yield tangible results. ”
Senator Odom, who was the 
president of Sigma Alpha Epsilon 
last year, said that the fraternity was 
focused on fixing its mistake and 
finding a solution to prevent similar 
incidents in the future.
“It’s a tough situation, ” Odom told 
council members after reading the statement. “It blindsided us, and we’re 
just trying to react in the best way 
possible, once again, not to try to save 
our image on campus but to just try 
to help this issue to not be as much of 
an issue anymore. As we’ve seen, it’s 
happening far too often. ”
Campuswide Senator and Greeks 
United for Inclusion, Diversity and 
Equity member Lauren Roberts 
recommended that Odom and SAE 
executives reach out to the EDI peer 
education team for help with creating 
workshops to educate members, a 
suggestion A.S. President Dominick 
Suvonnasupa strongly seconded.
Juarez added that their office has 
been in communication with the 
leaders of the Greek system as well as 
the Independent Review Committee 
and is scheduled to meet with them for 
the third time this Friday.
“We’re hoping that through 
collaboration there will be a willingness to make changes that produce a 
different culture, ” Juarez said. “W e want 
these conversations to be solution-
oriented. They can’t just be symbolic; 
they have to have an outcome. ”
Juarez further explained that 
in order for these meetings to be 
productive, leaders across organizations 
needs to prioritize enforcing their new 
policies as well as promoting them.
“If we just let people slide through 
with a slap on the wrist, that’s 
not going to do anything, ” Juarez 
commented. “The university needs 
to make a stance and decide what’s 
acceptable and what’s not. ”
Wilson confirmed that two 
members of SAE  — the pledge who 
sent the message and the fraternity’s 
member educator — were expelled 
hours after the incident went viral 
last Thursday.Fraternity Immediately Dismissed Pledge and Member Educator
Future Summit to Discuss Undocumented Student Rights and Needs▶ SAE,  from page 1
▶ UNDOCUMENTED,  from page 1Kriti   Sarin   news@ucsdguardian.orgreaders can contact
Lisa  Chik   lchik@ucsd.edureaders can contactLooking for the 
New Business 
Column?
Now posted every Wednesday 
night, after the A.S. Council 
meeting, online.
ucsdguardian.org4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 26, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CASSIA POLLOCK
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
How-To 
Guru: 
Halloween 
Rampages
Are you giddy with excite -
ment yet for the approaching 
holiday season? Of course 
you are. There is no time of year more 
skimpy, sugary or fraught with poor 
life choices than Halloween. But don’t 
forget to brace yourself — this is a 
dangerous time of year. While it may 
be tempting to let your hair down to 
really unwind and relax this Friday, 
we beg you to resist this urge.
Hooligans may literally be hid -
ing around every corner, as well 
as zombie-like students. Almost 
everyone will be brainwashed into 
flaunting costumes displaying a mix -
ture of racially and sexually charged 
stereotypes. Few survivors will walk 
away unscarred by this spooky 
night of ghouls, monsters and togas. 
Fortunately, with this handy-dandy 
survival guide, you’ll keep safe from 
all those ruffians while eating as much 
sugar as possible.
To prepare yourself to be the 
sneakiest candy bandit, obey the fol -
lowing safety procedures without 
question. Y ou must stretch the lengths 
of your stomach to maximize future 
candy consumption. Stuff yourself 
with pumpkins. Y es, you heard us 
correctly. Pumpkins are loaded with 
good nutrition and potassium. With 
the rich nourishment of pumpkins, 
you will successfully retain sound 
judgment to deal with the many perils 
of Halloween. It’s no coincidence that 
pumpkins are available at every food 
supplier within walking distance of 
UCSD. A short walk to Perks Cafe will 
provide you with a pumpkin-spiced 
latte. Stock up on pumpkin cereal 
bars, pumpkin sauce, pumpkin cheese 
and pumpkin candy corn at Sunshine 
Market. In fact, refuse to consume any 
food if it is not loaded with pumpkins 
for your pre-Halloween prep diet.
If you look like a buffalo, you’re 
ready for Halloween. On the big day, 
your first task is to obtain as much 
candy as possible. None of that fun-
sized crap. Go king-sized or go home. 
The underground candy market is 
booming, and you’re going to infiltrate 
this mysterious system. Pretend you’re 
going grocery shopping and bring 
about 12 bags. Y ou never know which 
little kids you can steal from. It’ll be 
like taking candy from a baby, literally.
When the cops come, tell them 
you’re on an undercover mission, 
working as an agent from the Drug 
Enforcement Administration. Stare 
intently into a police officer’s eyes as 
you take a generous bite of a toddler’s 
Snickers bar. Authoritatively report to 
him, “It’s clean. ” And then take anoth -
er bite and say, “Just double checking. ” 
Hand the wrapper back to the child 
and let him or her know it’s safe for 
consumption. Then when neither is 
looking, grab the bag and run.
Not sure what to wear as a cos -
tume? Just take our advice and go as 
your midterm grades. Take a translu -
cent sheet of paper with those grades 
and tape it around your body. There is 
no scarier monster in this world. We 
guarantee this costume will make you 
a knock-out. Explain to your professor 
that you need to know your grades 
early for this purpose. If you wake up 
in a trash bin surrounded by candy 
wrappers the next morning, give 
yourself a pat on the back for a suc -
cessful Halloween.After a few years of laying the groundwork for a rebranding, Buzzfeed 
is ready to take on the responsibility of “fine American news source. ” 
While the phrase “Buzzfeed reporter” may have once seemed an oxymo -
ron, the well-known viral site is preparing to be a serious news source for 
the 21st century reader — and rightly so.
Buzzfeed’s decision to tackle substantial news was not spontaneous. 
Rather, its movement began in 2011, when it hired Politico’s Ben Smith, 
to create a national political reporting team. Since then, it has established 
a viable news source that releases investigative news stories at least once a 
month. Three weeks ago, it was Buzzfeed reporter Azeen Ghorayshi who 
compiled and published the report detailing a UC Berkeley professor’s 
prolonged sexual harassment of female students over many years. 
Still, there are concerns that Buzzfeed’s effort to rebrand as a news 
source will attempt to make trained reporters out of writers who are 
more well-versed in social media and trend-predicting than in journal -
ism. Another concern is that mixing Buzzfeed’s flair for virality with the 
prestige associated with the New Y ork Times will lead to a downgrade 
of journalism entirely. In hopes of establishing credibility, Buzzfeed now 
has 400 editorial writers, 170 reporters and 17 investigative journalists. 
To ensure its staff adheres to professional journalistic standards, Buzzfeed 
hired Lisa Tozzi from the New Y ork Times as its news director and Ben 
Smith of Politico and New Y ork Daily News as its editor-in-chief. It also 
established international outposts in places like Mumbai, Mexico City 
and Berlin to keep its coverage international.
Its distinctive entertainment sector will certainly still exist, but only 
as one of three major branches: news, lifestyle and web culture, the latter 
being Buzzfeed’s signature feature.
Major United States publications have been struggling to keep up 
with readership since the Internet revolutionized our consumption of 
news. The exponentially-growing Buzzfeed easily has 150 million unique 
monthly viewers to mobilize as newsreaders and attentive citizens. In 
an attempt to bridge the gap between older styles of journalism and 
21st century reporting, the rebranding of Buzzfeed — with its special 
repertoire of experienced newswriters and increasing dedication to 
investigative journalism — shows that now is the right time for widely-
read news sources to focus on serious journalism, and responsibly 
dedicate themselves to being credible. 
— QUINN PIEPER
Contributing WriterBuzzfeed Successfully Engages Millenials, Creating 
a Promising Platform to Deliver Serious Journalism
QUICK TAKESTHERE HAVE BEEN RECENT TRENDS TOWARD REBRANDING BUZZFEED INTO A MORE INVESTIGATIVE NEWS 
SOURCE, DESPITE ITS REPUTATION AS A POWERHOUSE OF MEMES AND VIRAL SENSATIONS.
A few years ago, BuzzFeed hired Ben Smith as its new Editor-in-
Chief with the goal of expanding into serious journalism and long-
form articles. Since that decision, BuzzFeed News regularly produces 
full-length articles about current events. Now, it has gotten to the point 
where even the casual browser is quoting Uncle Ben.With great power 
comes great responsibility, and BuzzFeed needs to gear up for the task of 
serious journalism.
The Orlando-based company has built a brand out of gifs, videos and 
quizzes catered to the short attention span of the internet procrastinator. 
As its expansion into professional journalism deepens, there is a growing 
concern about the influence of BuzzFeed’s content. When the content is 
“20 Signs Y ou’re A 90s Kid, ” nobody pulls out an AP-Style Guide. When 
the stories cover the public lynching of two men near Mexico City, 
adherence to journalistic integrity is absolutely vital.
The problem arises in thinking that one requires utmost journalistic 
integrity to become a newspaper, which simply isn’t the way free press 
works. If that were the case, the National Enquirer would have gone 
bankrupt years ago.
Journalistic integrity is not a requirement to enter the world of 
newspapers, it’s a requirement to survive in it. Anybody can start a 
newspaper, but upholding the rigorous standards of modern newspapers 
is what allows them to succeed the long run. 
Thorough research, public accountability and objectivity when 
handling sensational topics and having a corporate structure that 
promotes honest reporting are all essential when you butt heads with old 
and respected publications, such as the New York Times.
This industry does not tolerate weakness; it ruthlessly edits out the 
weak links as institutions play the juggling act of presenting exciting 
news and maintaining professional objectivity. The redactions, scandals 
and accusations of libel of one newspaper become the front page 
headlines of Buzzfeed’s competitor, The Week.
 If BuzzFeed wants to play ball with the big kids on the playground, 
that is its corporate decision. Whether or not it belongs there is yet to 
be seen, but it is not worth losing sleep over. After all, if it doesn’t we 
will always have “21 Ways To Tell if Y ou’re Not Cut Out For the News 
Industry. ”
—  NIKHIL KANTHI 
Contributing WriterWhether Buzzfeed Possesses the Credibility to Report 
Hard News or Not, Remains QuestionableIn seven months, UCSD will have its very own Triton 
alumna in space as Kate Rubins voyages with NASA 
to the International Space Station. She will join the 
growing ranks of human spacefarers, a pioneering subset 
of the world’s population that expands with each passing 
year. While NASA remains a formidable and constant 
presence when it comes to sending people to space, the 
21st century has set the stage for a new Space Race — 
this time not between posturing superpowers, but rather 
between entities of the public and private sectors.
  Consider NASA ’s goal of having humans on an 
asteroid by 2025 and on Mars by the 2030s. Though 
NASA ’s status as a prevailing public space agency remains 
uncontested, this public agency is no longer the absolute 
gatekeeper of outer space. Elon Musk, a billionaire 
engineer and real-life Tony Stark, has set goals to match 
NASA ’s. He founded rival company SpaceX based on 
the notion that space agencies can thrive in the private 
sector.   SpaceX plans to put people on Mars in the 2020s 
and take advantage of space’s vast resources for pro fit, 
well ahead of NASA ’s schedule. Another company, Mars 
One, also set lo fty goals. It already started the process of 
selecting astronauts not only to visit Mars in 2026, but 
to experience the rest of their lives on the red planet, 
funded with an ongoing, international reality TV event. 
The clashing dates set for NASA versus SpaceX or Mars 
One reveal a healthy tension, a technological wager over 
who will gain the greater foothold o ff of Earth and in 
the universe. This wager carries implications beyond 
the speci fic organizations in question, speaking volumes 
about the state of private versus public blocs in society.
  This juxtaposition parallels the original Space Race 
of the mid 20th century between the USSR and the 
USA. It happened as much for the sake of symbolically 
promoting capitalism against communism as for 
practical bene fits. Though certainly not another Cold 
War, the new Space Race likewise represents a proving 
See SPACE RACE, page 5
Private Space
ILLUSTRA TION   B Y  EL Y SE  Y ANGB y  Thomas  Finn  Senior Staff WriterAlthough NASA continues to be a powerful force of  space exploration, privately funded companies 
such as Space X are proving to be formidable competitors, seeking to capitalize on new frontiers.OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 26, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
@asucsdRegistration for FALL QUARTER
A.S. Safe Rides allows registered
undergraduate students to get
3 FREE rides per quarter.
Students MUST register
at least 24 hours prior
to their ﬁrst ride. A.S. SAFE RIDES 
REGISTER ONLINE AT
AS.UCSD.EDU/SAFERIDESNOW OPEN!TRITON
PANTRYFOOD
location: Original Student Center
email: foodpantry@ucsd.edu
phone: (858) 534-5694The mission of the Triton Food Pantry is to provide a discreet 
service to UCSD students in need of food. Our goals are to 
ensure that every student has enough energy to get through 
the day and that no student needs to give up a single meal 
for any reason. We aim to build a network of resources and 
awareness about food insecurity.
Hours subject to change in future quarters.Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri
9am–1pm 3pm–6pm 3pm–6pm 9am–1pm 9am–1pmFall Quarter Hours:
WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
Competition Between the Private and Public Industries of  Space Exploration, Push for Greater Progress and Discovery
SEND YOUR 
LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGUNLEASH YOUR 
FIERY WRATH
ground of this century’s ideologies.
  Many consider public space 
agencies an outdated relic of the 
last century, undermining the free 
market’s natural evolution into 
space. Others hope to preserve 
outer space from the pitfalls 
of capitalism, keeping it as the 
common heritage of our species 
rather than just more worlds 
for monetary exploitation. One 
philosophy might predominate in 
the coming decades, and SpaceX’s 
success could make as fine a case 
for the former as NASA ’s could for 
the latter.
Regardless, this competition drives us to progress. The first Space 
Race drove NASA ’s funding to record 
highs, successfully earning 4.41 
percent of the federal budget in 1966, 
compared to last year’s .5 percent. 
This funding not only helped us 
reach the moon, but gave us many 
practical inventions originally 
developed for space, from solar 
cells and water puri fiers, to arti ficial 
limbs and baby food. 
A new Space Race could 
reinvigorate scienti fic funding, 
except this time, all major players 
bene fit the same economy.
  The younger private companies 
use NASA, a time-tested veteran 
of the first Space Race, to set 
their bold standards, while NASA can eventually reap the scienti fic 
advancements made by these 
capitalist firms whether or not they 
find success in the global market. 
This upcoming Space Race can 
avoid the zero-sum shortcomings of 
the original. These new competitors 
can cooperate to some extent 
and bene fit from one another’s 
advancements.
  The categories of public 
and private do overlap in many 
noteworthy ways, like NASA 
funding private ventures or doing 
business with them. Nonetheless, 
the dichotomy remains in 
an ideological realm where 
competition has the potential to 
spark exponential progress that the world has not seen in 50 years. 
The call-to-action here urges all 
to recognize that both paths lead 
forward and to support scienti fic 
and technological progress in 
all forms — to fight to increase 
funding for NASA, but also to fan 
the ambitions of private enterprises 
like SpaceX and Mars One.
The move to explore outer 
space can unlock untold resources 
for humanity, both physical and 
intellectual. The answers to age-
old questions about the nature 
of life and our one and only 
Spaceship Earth may very well lie in 
researching other celestial bodies. 
Economically speaking, just a 
small section of the asteroid belt could contain hundreds of trillions 
of dollars of useful industrial 
materials, such as precious 
metals that could be potentially 
mined with no environmental 
consequences on Earth.
The reasons for keeping space 
exploration relevant are limitless. 
In order to face the problems of 
the 21st century, humans need to 
keep driving one another forward 
and challenging each other to test 
the limits of our ideologies, while 
keeping in mind that our ultimate 
destination remains the same. In 
the race to explore the universe, 
regardless of the contestants, 
humanity wins in the end.▶ SPACE RACE,  from page 46 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 26, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
ALLISON  KUBO
features@ucsdguardian.org
Every university has its own set of stories and myths that, true or not, can be passed from one 
class of freshmen to the next. At UCSD, perhaps our most talked about “secret” is the series of 
steam tunnels that run beneath the school, accessible from a manhole across from Main Gym.
The mythology surrounding the tunnels used to focus on the theory that they were constructed 
during the Vietnam War to transport police and the National Guard from one side of campus to the 
other in case of riots. However, this theory has been disproven.
Richard Cota, the Assistant Director of Building Operations at UCSD, verified that the tunnels 
have only been used for the utility purposes that they were designed for.
“They carry utilities throughout the majority of the campus,” Cota told Triton Magazine, a 
UCSD alumni publication. “They have some telecom cabling in there, high temperature hot water 
and the chill water that’s created at the central plant. There is some electricity that goes through 
there, natural gas and compressed air.”
The tunnels contain pipes and ducts along with enough room for a person to go in and do 
service on them. Even though the tunnels may not be a wartime relic of American paranoia, an aura 
of mystique still surrounds them.
While the school is understandably tight-lipped when it comes t o the specifics of the tunnel 
system, years of student exploration have led to a consensus that the main series of tunnels runs all 
the way from beneath Library Walk to the old lecture halls in Revelle College and all the way back 
up to Peterson Hall. Although there are other smaller tunnel systems, this larger loop is generally 
the most well-known. 
Visitors will find themselves weaving through a maze of long pipes that looks like the discarded 
set from a science-fiction movie filmed in the mid-70s. Modern te chnology has made building 
tunnels an antiquated practice, so the tunnels have remained relatively unchanged for several 
decades. But with new students every year, they have seen their fair share of curious explorers 
since the school first opened its doors. Much of the tunnels con tain graffiti from students who have 
explored the tunnels, including marks from student groups such as The Koala and the Air Squids 
Ultimate Frisbee Team.
David Young, a graduate from the class of 1977, told his story about exploring the tunnels when 
he was a student.
“When I was a freshman in Muir College, I would always hear people talk about the secret 
tunnels beneath the school,” Young told the UCSD Guardian. “One night, a few friends and I 
decided to explore. At the time, they were actually doing construction on one of the tunnels, so we 
were able to enter by just walking down a set of stairs by the main library. After a few minutes of 
walking, we saw a door that threatened to set off an alarm if opened, but we figured we made it this 
far, so we might as well keep going.”
David and his friends didn’t make it much further before they heard voices coming down from 
where they had entered.
“Before we knew it, there were police right behind us,” Young said. “We tried to climb up 
through an exit hatch but it was locked. Fortunately, they didn’t seem to think it was too big of 
an issue, and after we were taken to the on-campus station, we were let off with just the typical 
written warning.”
One of the reasons that the tunnels maintain their relative mystery is that the risks involved 
with checking out the tunnels tend to deter students. Not only are adventurers subject to serious 
punishment from the school, there is also physical danger associated with the tunnels. Cracks and 
leaks are inherent risks when dealing with old pipes that move scalding hot material; any mishap 
could lead to a serious situation.
Cota believes that the dimensions of the space and the lack of exits make it a safety hazard.
“It’s considered a confined space,” Cota said. “That means that evacuation is not easy. If there 
was a problem down there, a broken wire or a broken pipe, there’s only one or two ways to get out, 
so you’d have to go those ways and have a plan in place.”
Revelle alumnus Darryl Howard, who has been in the tunnels on several occasions, also found 
them to be potentially dangerous.
“There are these massive steam pipes — they’re covered in asbestos and they’re leaking and 
it’s a really narrow tunnel system,” Howard told Triton Magazine. “If a pipe bursts, you would die 
pretty instantly.”
For those who do try to embark on this voyage, use extreme caution. And for those who have 
weighed the pros and cons and have decided that tonight’s the night to live life on the edge, be sure 
to bring a flashlight.
The Truth and Myths Behind 
the UCSD Underground Tunnels
Written by Sam Shapiro // Staff Writer
additional reporting by
Kyle Somers (Associate Features Editor)
Photos courtesy of Sam Shapiro
FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 26, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
MEETYOUR FUTURE HERE
©2015 Northrop Grumman is committed to hiring and retaining a diverse workforce. We are proud to be an Equal Opportunity/A ffirmative Action Employer, making decisions without regard to race, color, 
religion, creed, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital status, national origin, age, veteran status, disability, or any other protected class. U.S. Citizenship is required for most positions. For our complete 
EEO/AA statement, please visit www.northropgrumman.com/EEOwww.northropgrumman. com/meetNGCCAREERS THAT TAKE YOU PLACES.Say hello to Northrop Grumman, where our 
team of innovative visionaries help us expand 
the boundaries of what’s possible in areas of 
unmanned, cyber, C4ISR and logistics. 
It’s our job to help keep the world safe and secure, 
every day. To continue our mission, we look for  
like-minded, creative individuals who want to  
make an impact, who thrive on global challenges, 
and who hold and share the same values as we do.
Let’s do the work that matters – together.  
Univeristy of California - San Diego
10.000 x 15.000 UNMANNED      •      CYBER      •      C4ISR      •      LOGISTICS
UNMANNED      •      CYBER      •      C4ISR      •      LOGISTICS
About 600 pounds. That’s how much “It Low, ” this year’s pumpkin for the Muir 
Pumpkin Drop, weighs. On Friday, Oct. 30 at 12:30 p.m., students will gather 
around Tioga Hall to witness one of UCSD’s oldest traditions.
First held in 1974, the Pumpkin Drop was created as Muir’s answer to Revelle’s Wa -
termelon Drop, which began the previous June. At 41 years old, it is older than Sun God 
Festival and nearly all other campus traditions.
The pumpkins dropped here are no ordinary gourds; the Muir Residents’ O ffice find 
unusually large ones grown by farmers and pumpkin enthusiasts throughout California.
Patricia Danylyshyn-Adams, Associate Dean of Student A ffairs for Muir College, started 
working at UCSD 38 years ago, shortly a fter the pumpkin drop started. Adams, along with 
assistant director Sonia Rosado, is instrumental in organizing the Drop and bringing the 
pumpkin to campus every year.
Adams said that this year’s pumpkin was grown by Jon Berndes from Alpine, about 30 
minutes east of campus.
“He is a telecommunications person, and this is just a hobby he does, ” Adams told the 
UCSD Guardian. “He’s probably grown five or six for us so far, and he’s looking at a bigger 
one next year. ”
Most years the pumpkin weighs somewhere between 250 and 500 pounds. Last year’s 
pumpkin, “Bruh, ” was one of the biggest, weighing 500 pounds. That still pales in com -
parison to “It Low, ” the Drop’s largest one yet; at 600 pounds, it weighs as much as a typical 
vending machine.
Muir senior Trevor Murphy has seen the Pumpkin Drop three times and recalls exactly 
how big it looked from the ground.
“The first time I saw it, from quite a far distance, it was still huge, like the size of my 
palm at the distance of the top of a building, ” Murphy told the Guardian.
Muir faculty brought the “gourd of honor” to campus on Oct. 23, one week before the 
drop. Moving a vegetable of this size is a mammoth task in itself, so Adams needed a lot of 
helping hands to get the pumpkin safely to campus.
“We had probably seven or eight students that helped us pick up the pumpkin, ” Adams 
said. “With a carpet [to li ft the pumpkin] and a flatbed we got it back here. There were some 
strange looks on the freeway; they took pictures because it was sitting in the back of our 
truck. ”
Every year’s pumpkin gets a unique name. Some creative names from years past include 
2011’s “Dead Gorgeous” and 2010’s “Drop and Give Me 50, ” named in honor of Muir’s 50th 
anniversary. This year’s pumpkin was named “It Low” so Muir Residents’ Council can drop 
“It Low” on Oct. 30 at the Halloween Carnival in Muir, which will take place all day to kick 
off the Halloween weekend.
The pumpkin is currently on display at the Middle of Muir co ffee shop. On Wednesday 
Oct. 28, it will be featured at Pines Dining Hall’s Harvest Festival before Muir Residents’ 
Council carves it on Thursday evening, taking out enough flesh to fill an entire trashcan. 
After that comes 50 to 60 pounds worth of candy, enough to fill the colossal jack-o’-
lantern to the brim. When the pumpkin splats, the candy spills out like a piñata, and eager 
students scramble to get their share.
Muir senior Angella Nwoye remembers waiting in a crowd of people to grab the candy 
that fell out.
“I remember last time that I wanted to run for the candy, but there were so many people 
running a fter it that I waited for them to all finish getting it, and then there was still a lot le ft 
for me to grab, ” says Nwoye. “ There were a lot of people; they de finitely filled up Muir Lawn. ”
The gargantuan gourd is dropped from the 11th floor of Tioga Hall, the highest point 
in Muir. Nearly dwar fing the people around it, the pumpkin has to be rolled o ff the roof by 
a maintenance crew, with ceremonial pushes by Muir Residents Council’s Executive Board 
and the winner of the Muir Pumpkin Carving Contest. 
The drop, predictably, creates a sizeable mess. In preparation, the maintenance sta ff 
boards up all the windows in the area to guard against the debris. Still, accidents do happen 
from time to time, according to Muir senior Alex Sinclair, who has seen the Pumpkin Drop 
three times.
“In 2013, the pumpkin fell from Tamarack and the splat was so strong, that one of the 
windows in John’s Market was cracked, so they had to move it back to Tioga, ” Sinclair recalls.
After the drop, Muir Residents’ Council measures how far the splat went. According to 
Adams, the largest measured splat was in 1995, when a piece of the 398-pound pumpkin 
flew 100 feet.
The local news stations routinely cover the event, which Adams points out sometimes 
captures attention in places far beyond San Diego.
“One year it made ESPN’s ‘Top 10, ’ and a UCSD employee vacationing in Prague said he 
saw it on the news there, ” Adams remarked.
The Pumpkin Drop is one of the oldest traditions we have at UCSD, and the students 
interviewed enjoyed the festival and watching the drop. Like the Watermelon Drop and the 
Undie Run, it looks like it will continue far into the future.Drop  It  Low:
Muir College Prepares for Annual Pumpkin Drop
Written by Oliver Kelton // Contributing Writer
Art by Kyle Somers8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 26, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEATURESCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 26, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
ROCKY HORROR PICTURE SHOWTUE, 10.27 • 7pm TahrirCAMPUS
CALENDAR
OCT 26 - NOV 12015 POWERED BY THE CHANCELLOR’S OFFICE AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guardian
Calenda r
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdg uardian.orgWED 10.28 TUE 10.27
2:30pm
CAREER CHATS WITH CSC ADVISOR - THE 
ZONE
Chat with Roxanne Farkas, a CSC Advisor, about 
professional career objectives and goal setting so 
you can be more successful in obtaining your career 
goals
11am
BODY COMPOSITION - THE ZONE
Walk in for your free analysis which includes: body 
weight, percentage body fat, total body water, and 
blood pressure. One free assessment per quarter is 
available to registered UCSD students.
SUN 11.01
7am
ROCK CLIMB MISSION GORGE - OUTBACK 
ADVENTURES
Mission Trails Regional Park is a local hot spot for rock 
climbing only 20 minutes from campus. The climbing 
is excellent with routes for both first time and 
experienced climbers. Our experienced and supportive 
guides will lead you through a fun and challenging 
progres - sion of climbs throughout the day. Knots, 
rope handling, belaying, safety, and climbing 
technique will be covered. All climbing equipment is 
provided. Come spend the day with us on the rocks!.FRI10.30
10am
FITNESS ZONE: ZUMBA - THE ZONE
Zumba: Experience the dance craze that's taking the 
fitness industry by storm! Zumba combines Latin 
rhythms and easy-to-follow dance moves to put the 
FUN back in your workout. Fast and slow rhythms are 
combined for an aerobic and toning workout that 
confers the benefits of interval training. Lead by 
FitLife instructor Olga Lazitski and Christine Gonzakez.
2pm
DE-STRESS W/ BIOFEEDBACK - THE ZONE
Come de-stress with the CAPs Wellness Peers! 
Measure your psychological stressors and learn more 
about what makes you most stressed, how it affects 
your well-being and how to keep your stress levels 
down! Workshops are all free. Space is limited and is 
first come, first served. Hosted by the CAPS Wellness 
Peer Educators10am
FITNESS ZONE: YOGA FLOW - THE ZONE
Yoga: This class will move from one asana (pose) to 
the next. Each class is a unique sequence of asanas. 
Classes take on a life of their own with the 
culmination of collective energy, movement and 
breath. Lead by FitLife instructor Jennie Olson Six and 
Nadine Lindseth.
7pm
OUTREACH TRIVIA NIGHTS - MIDDLE OF MUIR 
(MOM) 
FOOD, FACTS, FRIENDS, & FUN! Come to Home Plate 
Cafe to meet new people and test your knowledge of 
various trivia categories! Free entry to all UCSD 
students and prizes for winning team! Make this a 
weekly event and turn up the competition! Happy hour 
prices on food and drinks for trivia participants! All 
students are welcome! Come as a team or by 
yourself!
7pm
ROCKY HORROR PICTURE SHOW - PRICE 
CENTER THEATREN
What's better than candy on Halloween? Cult 
Classics! Dress up and get ready to dance along with 
us for a sexy night filled with the thrill, chills and trills 
of this unforgettable movie musical.  There will be a 
LIVE performance of Rocky Horror to accompany the 
film screening! This event is free and open to the 
public. 7pm - Doors open: Time Warp Dance lessons, 
Costume Contest, and more 8pm - The movie 
madness begins Rocky Horror is a place to go where 
you'll be accepted, whoever you are. The music is 
wonderful, the costumes are flashy and fun, and the 
film is a vacation from reality. Contact: 
tmcminors@ucsd.edu 8585344004
THU 10.29
10am
MEDITATION - THE ZONE
Join us for a guided meditation where you can: -Gain 
greater mental clarity -Achieve a peaceful state of 
being -Learn techniques to de-stress -Achieve 
harmony amid cognitive dissonance Workshop led by: 
a UCSD Recreation Instructor
1:30pm
THERAPY FLUFFIES - THE ZONE
Come de-stress and play with certified therapy dogs 
at The Zone!
3pm
R&R QUAD - THE ZONE
Drop-in and get a low intensity back rub from the R&R 
Squad!
3pm
PASSPORT TO CULTURE: CHILE - 
INTERNATIONAL HOUSE-CUZCO LOUNGE
Earn your passport and "travel to Chile!" Learn about 
life and culture from current students who have lived 
and studied in various regions of the world. Enjoy a 
traditional taste of food from the highlighted region 
each week!  Week 5 "Passport to Culture" will 
highlight Chile!
6pm
ABEL IN ZION: NEGOTIATING LANGUAGE 
DIVERSITY IN PRE-1948 PALESTINE - FACULTY 
CLUB
A talk, in honor of Dean Padden, about the intersection 
of multiple spoken languages and Zionism in Israel.MON 10.26
8am
PROMOTES STUDENT RIGHTS ON THE UCSD 
CAMPUS! - PC WEST, 4TH FLOOR
Are you interested in promoting and protecting the 
rights of students on the UCSD campus? If so, join the 
Office of Student Advocacy- we assist students as they 
proceed through both nonacademic and academic 
integrity cases. Send an email to as 
advocacy@ucsd.edu for more information!
5pm
GLOBAL FORUM SPEAKER SERIES - THE GREAT 
HALL AT I-HOUSE
This year's Global Forum events cohere around the 
thematic of global citizenship. In thinking about global 
citizenship, we begin the fall quarter with a set of 
questions: How does one become a global citizen? 
How do different stakeholders in different geopolitical, 
cultural, and social milieus understand and 
operationalize the idea of 'global citizenship? Finally, 
what does global citizenship look like in terms of 
actions? We hope each of this quarter's events help 
our audiences approach these questions with new 
insights. While we are not looking to assemble a 
selection of 'correct' answers, we are interested in 
complementing and complicating the ways UCSD and 
San Diego communities answer these questions, and 
we hope our speakers keep them in mind while 
preparing their remarks.
5pm
FILM SERIES: RELIGION AND THE BODY - 
HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCI BLOG., RM 1128
This film series explores themes of religion and the 
body. The series opens with Lars Von Trier's "Breaking 
the Waves," an emotionally and spiritually challenging 
film that hammers at conventional morality. The series 
is hosted by Professor Dayna Kalleres. Each film 
presentation will be followed by an informal discussion 
about the theme. Open to undergraduates. Free 
admission. Registration/RSVP recommended.SAT 10.31
8am
CHALLENGE COURSE FACILITATOR TRAINING - 
UCSD CHALLENGE COURSE
Learn how to facilitate a group through a meaningful 
experience of team building, problem solving and 
group processing. This training program focuses on 
the core competencies necessary for facilitators on 
the UC San Diego Challenge Course. The training will 
offer a combination of technical safety skills and 
facilitation skills of working with individuals and 
groups. 
10am
GARDEN HOURS - BEHIND LA JOLLA DANCE 
BUILDING AND CHE CAFE
Interested in growing your own food? Want to work 
toward a climate resilient future? Well come to RCG 
behind the CHE Cafe and the Dance Building in 
Revelle to learn about our agricultural system, 
integrated agriculture and much more! Open to any 
major or student. Plot rentals open to all who want to 
grow their own food. We are a Student Run garden 
that believes in sustainability. Join us every Saturday 
and/or Sunday rain or shine.PRICE CENTER THEATRE
10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 26, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDS$
Gua rdian Classi fieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedscrossword
Across
 1 Sweetheart
 6 Volvo rival
 10 Double agent
 14 Post fresh troops
 15 “M*A*S*H” star
 16 Actor Estrada
 17 Overdo the drama
 18 Welfare
 19 Kidder’s “Superman” role
 20 Patient’s complaint
 23 False name
 24 Thalia’s sister
 25 Hot tub
 27 Climbs on
 31 In the crow’s-nest
 35 Island near Java
 38 Seldom seen
 39 Start of physician’s reply
 42 Hitch
 43 Major following?
 44 Below, poetically
 45 Meal
 47 Thurman of films
 49 Defense grp.
 52 Steps
 57 End of physician’s reply
 60 Icahn or Sagan
 61 1982 Disney flick
 62 Musical exercise piece
 63 Watch face
 64 Aaron or Williams
 65 Song from “West Side Story”
 66 Last word in a threat
 67 Dates
 68 __ we a pair?Down
 1 Author Adler
 2 Detroit dud
 3 Exxon rival
 4 Metz morning
 5 Other side’s agent
 6 Cut, as wood
 7 Motrin alternative
 8 Oil-well firefighter Red
 9 Vinegar choice
 10 Capital of Victoria
 11 Dental exam?
 12 Subway route
 13 Squeeze (out)
 21 Rascal
 22 Robert or Lance
 26 Touch against
 28 Granny
 29 Lively pace
 30 Third son
 31 Pre-1991 atlas abbr.
 32 Johnnycake
 33 Snare
 34 Specialized cell structure
 36 ABA member
 37 Stead
 40 Promises to marry
 41 Bete noire
 46 Wok sauce
 48 NYC arena
 50 Nimbi
 51 Certain bee
 53 Perfume from petals
 54 Harden
 55 French sculptor
 56 Elbow grease
 57 Spinnaker or spanker
 58 Historic stretches
 59 Pen fills
 60 B-F connectionBIKES
Vintage Schwinn Men’s Road Mountain Bike 
21” ten-speed 1982 - $110. Men’s vintage 
Mesa Runner Schwinn bike. Runs well. Has 
Shimano gears and Selle Royal seat. Listing 
ID: 199664394 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
Beach Cruiser (his & hers) - $75. I am selling 
BOTH bikes for $75 total. Bought these for 
$100 each and found that they don’t get 
used often. HIS: Black with red accents, new 
pedals, handlebar grips and oversized bell. 
HERS: Cream with pink accents. New han -
dlebar grips and bell. Would prefer to sell 
them both together. Listing ID: 199664393 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Mongoose Bike - $80. Terrific condition. 
Listing ID: 199664392 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
ELECTRONICS
Galaxy S6 Otterbox - $20. Brand new. 
Listing ID: 199664454 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Portable Sony DVD player - $70. For sale 
Sony DVP-FX810 with cords and remote. 
Listing ID: 199664455 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Beats By Dre Headphones - $200. Lime 
green studio headphones. Like-new condi -
tion in original packaging with all manuals. 
Listing ID: 199664453 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more informationAUTO
Motorcycle Helmet - Shoei - $150. Shoei 
Full-Face Motorcycle Helmet Size XXL. This 
helmet has only been used a handful of 
times and has not suffered any impact 
of any kind. The exterior has a few minor 
superficial scratches but otherwise is in 
excellent condition. Listing ID: 199655260 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
1999 Toyota Corolla - $2750. 5 Speed 
Manual. V4. 38MPG. Cruise control. 
Smoged. No mechanical issues. This vehicle 
was owned and operated by a mechanic. 
New drive belt. Clean title. 113,000 miles. 
Starts and runs strong. Solid depend -
able vehicle that is cheap to own. Well 
maintained and very clean. Listing ID: 
199654720 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Nice Show and Go Cruzer - $44000. 1957 
Chevrolet Nomad wagon show and go. 
Used, 22,000 miles, private party, wagon, 
8 cyl, brown, tan, excellent condition, auto, 
RWD, 2 doors. Listing ID: 199654131 at ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
t
your vision,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel to 
promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!GET INVOLVED!
Join the Associated Students
For mo re info, visit as.ucsd .edu
as.ucsd.edu
asucsd asucsdCouncil Staff & Service
Positions Still Open
& much more... 
#OMG 
#LIKE US
#FOLLOW US
@ucsdgua rdian
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 26, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
bi-weekl y
summar y
The renovated 
Alex G. Spanos 
Training Facility 
boasts 12,000 
square feet of 
strength and 
conditioning zones, 
athletic training/rehabilitation 
zones, an outdoor conditioning 
plaza, o ffices and a conference 
room.
Men’s soccer has 19 
points at the end of the 
season, and now has to 
wait eight days to see if 
that will be enough to qualify for 
the California Collegiate Athletic 
Association Championships.
A record eight-time 
CCAA champion, 
women’s soccer 
clinched a second-
straight CCAA Tournament berth.
Freshman forward 
Mary Reilly has a 
league-leading nine 
goals. 12,000
19
8
9
MEN'S  SOCCER
WOMEN'S  SOCCERUCSD
UCSDUCSD
UCSDAfter dropping its last match 
against Sonoma State, the UCSD 
women’s soccer team rebounded 
this past week as it went 2–0 against 
California Collegiate Athletic 
Association rivals, with a 2–0 win over 
Cal State San Marcos and 4–0 against 
Chico State. The second-place Tritons 
now have an 11–5–1 overall record 
and a 7–4–1 conference record, good 
enough to earn the team a spot in the 
CCAA tournament with one game 
remaining in its schedule.
Game One
In the freshman transfer’s third 
start, mid fielder Elisa Martinez scored 
for the first time this season o ff of a 20-
yard shot that landed in the upper le ft 
corner of the goal. Shortly a fterward, the Tritons struck gold once again with 
a timely score by sophomore forward 
Katie O’Laughlin as she scored her 
sixth goal of the season from the le ft 
side. The early goals put the Tritons 
ahead 2–0 at the 33-minute mark, a 
lead the team would never relinquish. 
The team shut out the Cougars with 
the help of UCSD senior goalkeeper 
Kelcie Brodsky’s four saves, in her 
25th career individual shutout. Cal 
State San Marcos freshman goalkeeper 
Allie Jara did not fare as well as she 
allowed two goals and was pulled a fter 
the first half.
Cal State San Marcos’ o ffense was 
clearly sti fled, as it was unable to score 
on any of its ten shots. Freshman 
defender Jenna Hernandez led the 
Cougars with a total of three shots, 
and a shot by senior forward Sarah 
Campbell bounced o ff the goalpost at 
the 72-minute mark. UCSD scored twice on a total of 
twelve shots, seven of those shots on 
goal, along with a total of four assists. 
O’Laughlin led the team with three 
shots along with her one score.
UCSD improved to 10–5–1 overall 
and to 6–4–1 in the conference, while 
Cal State San Marcos fell to 3–7–5 
overall and to 3–5–3 in the conference.
Game Two
Despite starting relatively slowly 
in comparison to its previous match, 
UCSD soon found its groove against 
Chico State. The game remained 
scoreless until sophomore mid fielder 
Maxia Espino scored her second 
goal of the season by rebounding her 
missed header at the 38-minute mark. 
From that point onward, the Tritons 
never looked back.
“It took us the first 10-12 minutes 
to get our legs going, but once we did, 
we started getting hold of the ball, moving it and getting (Chico State) 
chasing, ” UCSD Head Coach Brian 
McManus told the UCSD Athletics 
Department. “ That allowed us to 
create a lot of chances, and we really 
dominated the rest of the first half. ”
With the start of the second 
period, the Tritons didn’t waste any 
time to put points on the board. 
Within 39 seconds, junior forward 
Jamie Benedetto scored her first 
goal of the season o ff of an assist 
from sophomore mid fielder Jordyn 
McNutt. The Tritons never took 
their foot o ff the gas and scored 
two more goals, notching one a fter 
freshman forward Mary Reilly 
scored her ninth goal of the season 
and another to close out the game as 
freshman forward Megumi Barber 
scored her third goal of the season. 
The Wildcats simply could not 
contain the Tritons’ o ffense, as they 
let the Tritons score four times 
on 11 shots on the goal. While the 
Wildcats had seven shots on the 
goal, the Tritons would not lose 
hold of their lead as Brodsky held 
her ground in the goal with six saves 
and another shutout, her 26th of 
her career. Reilly led the o ffensive 
with four shots on the goal with one 
score, with McNutt earning the only 
two assists of the game.   
With the win, UCSD clinched 
a spot in the CCAA tournament 
with only one game remaining in its 
schedule. UCSD improved to 11–5–
1 overall, while Chico State dropped 
to 9–4–2 overall.
“We’re in the CCAA Tournament, 
and now just have to wait for the 
seeding. ” McManus said. ”I feel like 
we’re playing good soccer now, and 
don’t really care who we get matched 
up with. ”
Up next, UCSD hosts a rematch 
with Cal State San Marcos on Oct. 
30 to close out its regular season.
CSU San Marcos
CSU San MarcosChico State
Chico State1 - 0
2 - 01 - 1
4 - 0The UCSD men’s soccer team 
earned crucial points in hopes of 
a California Collegiate Athletic 
Association Championship berth 
this past week, beating Cal State San 
Marcos 1–0 on Wednesday and then 
drawing with Chico State 1–1 a fter 
two overtimes on Friday to wrap up 
its regular season. With the week’s 
results, the Tritons are now 6–5–6 
overall and 5–3–4 in the CCAA. 
UCSD is now in a three-way tie for 
third in the standings with Stanislaus 
State and Cal State Los Angeles. 
Game One
In a must-win game for the 
Tritons, sophomore mid fielder Eric 
Young delivered the game-winner 
in the 76th minute that propelled 
UCSD to victory over Cal State San 
Marcos at Triton Soccer Stadium on Wednesday evening. It was a crucial 
win that kept the Tritons’ postseason 
hopes alive.
You n g  s c ore d  on  a  h e a d e r  o ff a 
left-sided cross delivered from fellow 
sophomore mid fielder Zachary 
Lagotta at 75:34 that ended up in 
the lower right corner of the net. It 
was Y oung’s first goal of 2015 and 
the third of his career, as well as 
his second game-winning goal ever. 
Lagotta and junior mid fielder Riley 
Harbour were each awarded with 
assists. Both now boast a team-high 
three over the season. 
Young was also pivotal on 
defense — with 10 seconds le ft in 
the game, Cal State San Marcos’ 
junior mid fielder Louie Farfan leapt 
from the rest of the players and put a 
strong header to the goal, but Young 
was in the perfect place at the right 
post to clear the ball and keep Cal 
State San Marcos scoreless. 
Redshirt junior goalkeeper Cameron McElfresh was at his best, 
adding a pair of saves in what was his 
league-leading seventh shutout for 
UCSD, totalling 19 for his career. Cal 
State San Marcos’ senior goalkeeper 
Zach Sheppard had two saves on his 
end. Even with the win, UCSD was 
outshot in the game 15–8. 
The match served as UCSD’s 
home finale but did not feature a 
traditional Senior Night ceremony 
prior to kicko ff, as the Tritons have 
no seniors on their roster. 
Game Two
UCSD earned a 1–1 draw versus 
rival Chico State a fter double 
overtime in the Tritons’ CCAA finale 
at the University Soccer Stadium this 
Friday. The road point was valuable 
as the game once again held huge 
postseason implications. 
Friday’s match was the last in 
the Tritons’ 2015 regular season 
schedule. The Tritons will now wait 
out the last eight days of the CCAA schedule to see if their 19 points are 
good enough to earn them a third 
straight postseason berth. The top 
six teams qualify for the 2015 CCAA 
Tournament.
UCSD opened the score at 
the 19:19 mark when freshman 
midfielder Brandon Monteiro 
Magpayo took a free kick and 
Harbour headed the rebound into 
the net to give the Tritons a quick 
1–0 lead.
Chico State tied the game at 59:30 
as junior forward Omar Nuno scored 
on a penalty from a handball called 
near the penalty area. The penalty 
shot was the first shot attempt for the 
home team.
Both teams continued to push 
to take the lead. UCSD came close 
when a throw-in was tossed near 
the far post and freshman mid fielder 
Christian Cordell slid in to knock 
the ball in, but freshman goalkeeper 
Andrew Matthews was there to 
block the shot. Chico State almost 
got the game winner at 3:09 in the 
first overtime session when senior 
forward Octavio Murillo’s shot went 
just wide right. The game ended in 
a hard fought 1–1 draw a fter two 
overtime sessions.
“I thought the team played 
very well, ” UCSD head coach Jon 
Pascale told the UCSD Athletics 
Department. “Chico State was a 
very good opponent, but I thought 
we controlled the majority of the 
match. We were a little unfortunate 
to get the penalty called against us, 
and their goalkeeper made a great 
save late in the match [on Cordell]. 
I thought those two plays were the 
difference” .
The Tritons have finished the 
regular season and will now have 
to wait until the CCAA season ends 
to find out if they are one of the six 
teams to make it to the postseason. 
WOMEN'S  SOCCER
MEN'S  SOCCERTritons Take Pair of  Decisive Shutouts 
UCSD Finishes CCAA Regular Season UCSD clinches postseason berth and faces CSU San Marcos to end regular season.
After this week’s win and draw, UCSD remains in contention for CCAA berth.By   A l e x  W u
Contributing Writer
By   D e v  J a i n
Contributing WriterPHOTO BY MEGAN LEE/ GUARDIAN
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE/ GUARDIANreaders can contact
Alex Wu   adw006@ucsd.edu 
readers can contact
Dev  Jain   dajain@ucsd.edu 
MEN'S
W A TER POLO
UCSD
UCSDAir Force
Loyola Marymount12 - 7
6 - 12SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
MARCUS THUILLIER
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 26, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
Building a Legacy
UCSD Athletics community celebrates grand 
opening of new training facility.
Written by Rosina Garcia // Staff Writer
Photos by Kenji Bennett // Guardian
Last Wednesday, Oct. 21, UCSD celebrated the opening of its newest athletics 
facility, the Alex G. Spanos Athletic Performance Center, with a ribbon-cutting 
ceremony. The Spanos family donated $500,000 to expand and renovate the 
existing training facility, adjacent to the track at North Campus. 
The facility is open to all students and contains high-end machinery equipped for 
speci fic training and rehabilitation. The 12,000 square foot facility will also lessen the 
congestion student-athletes experience at RIMAC, as it o ffers additional fitness and 
training “zones, ” as well as a conference room and even a hydrotherapy spa for the 
athletes. 
“It was designed to have multiple teams training at one time, with each having its 
own work space, ” UCSD Director of Strength and Conditioning Myles Cooper said at 
the ceremony. “In addition to the space, our new pieces of technology will ensure we are 
developing the correct physical qualities at the appropriate time of the season. ”
In addition, the UCSD name and school colors are featured prominently within the 
facility, which is an extension of the other athletics projects that have been completed 
this year, including Triton Ballpark and Muir Field. UCSD Athletics Director Earl Ed -
wards says that these blue and gold markers are part of the branding that UCSD and the 
Athletics Department are attempting. 
“I think one of the things that we struggle with, the university, is a brand where a lot 
of people know who we are, ” Edwards told the UCSD Guardian. “We’re a great institu -
tion, world-renowned institution, but a lot of people don’t know. So the more they can 
see UC San Diego, whether it’s facilities or on TV , the better o ff we’ll be as far as visibil -
ity and connecting with the community. ” 
The Spanos family has been part of the UCSD community since the 1980s when 
UCSD hosted the San Diego Chargers training camp. President of Football Operations 
for the Chargers John Spanos, grandson of Alex G. Spanos, the original Spanos owner 
of the Chargers and namesake of the facility, hopes to continue the relationships the 
Chargers have with UCSD.
“[This relationship] is something my grandfather started, and it’s something we’ve 
been really proud to continue, and he really deserves all the credit for starting it, ” 
Spanos explained to the Guardian. 
The UCSD News Center reported that the Spanos family has given more to the 
UCSD Athletics Department than any other individual or family, with its contributions 
amounting to over $1.6 million. 
“UCSD holds a special place in our hearts, ” Spanos added. “UCSD is a great institu -
tion that we’ve just been really happy and proud to be able to support the school. ”
M. Tennis
M. Water Polo
M Golf
W.  Soccer
W. Volleyball  10/28
  10/29
  10/30
  10/30
  10/30AT Intercollegiate Championships
VS Santa Clara
AT Dennis Rose Invitational
VS CSU San Marcos
VS Cal Poly PomonaUPCOMING
UCSD
GAMES