VOLUME 48, ISSUE 56  THURSDAY , MAY 21, 2015 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
UNDERGRAD,
UNDERGROUND
FROM MAY 29 UNTIL JUNE 6, 
THE UNDERGROUND NEW PLAY 
FESTIVAL WILL FEATURE FIVE 
BRIEF PLAYS CREATED ENTIRELY 
BY UNDERGRADS. CHECK OUT 
THE PLOTS AND INTERVIEWS 
WITH THE STUDENTS .
SGF15   CUL TURAL CHANGE
ONE GAME SHY OF NCAAS new a ttitudes on   drug   use
CRUEL  FINISH  FOR  BASEBALLOPINION,  P age  4
SPORTS,  P age  12
THURSDAY
H 67 L 57FRIDAY
H 67 L 58
SATURDAY
H 66 L 58SUNDAY
H 68 L 58
FORECAST
VERBATIM
HAVING A 
MENTAL 
DISORDER 
IS NOT 
UNCOMMON, 
NOR IS IT 
SHAMEFUL, 
SO OUR TREATMENT 
SHOULDN’T BE EITHER...”
-Ayat Amin & Marcus 
Thuillier 
Around the Globe
OPINION , PAGE 4
INSIDE
A COUPLE OF DERPS  ......2
FREE THE NIPPLE  ............ 4
REVIEW  ........................... 8
SUDOKU  ....................... 10
TRACK AND FIELD  ......... 12“
WEEKEND,  P AGE  6
PHOTO BY SIDDHARTH ATRE / GUARDIANCAMPUS
San Diego Public Library and 
Comic-Con International recently 
announced the creation of a free public 
art exhibit called “The Art of Comic-
Con” that promotes the awareness, 
creation and appreciation of comics. 
Located in Geisel Library’s Joan and 
Irwin Jacobs Common, the exhibition 
will be open to visitors from June 20 
to Aug. 30.
San Diego Public Library’s Arts 
and Culture Exhibition Manager Kara 
West told the UCSD Guardian that the 
exhibit displays many works developed 
alongside the primary intent of Comic-
Con. “For the past 45 years, Comic-
Con International has been bringing 
together passionate comics, movie and 
science fiction fans in San Diego, ” West 
said. “In the process of celebrating 
comics and related popular art forms, 
the organization has been creating a 
lot of great art along the way.  The ‘ Art 
of Comic-Con’ showcases some of the 
finest examples of unique comic art 
produced for and assembled by the 
organization over the years. ”
The showcase will feature originals 
from a multitude of artists from Comic-
Con International’s archives, including 
Howard Chaykin, a comic artist that 
has worked with companies such 
as DC Comics and Marvel Comics, 
and Michael Cho, an illustrator of 
numerous genres.Cho told the Guardian that the 
exhibit will allow viewers to appreciate 
and understand comic art in a more 
formal context.
“Like illustration or ‘fine arts, ’ 
quality comic art deserves a place in 
exhibition, ” Cho said. “I’m hoping 
the viewers will be able to see the 
craftsmanship that goes into the 
creation of comic art. For other artists, 
art students or fans of illustration, 
it also provides a way to view great 
original art and see some of the 
‘process. ’”
West told the Guardian that the 
art pieces were a diverse assembly 
representing many comic artists, with 
multitudes being crafted for specific Students Protest Nudity Laws 
at Free the Nipple Event
UCSD students undressed in protest of public 
exposure laws and the sexualization of female 
nipples on Library Walk during the Free the 
Nipple event on Wednesday. 
UCSD alumna and event organizer Anni Ma 
explained to the UCSD Guardian that the existing laws 
propagate injustice.
“When I saw a covered-up nipple that [protruded] 
out from [a woman’s] shirt and people making fun of it, 
I felt that it was unfair that women [aren’t] able to walk 
around without a bra and be comfortable, ” Ma said. 
“Then, I started to wonder why [I can’t] walk around 
without a shirt when men can do that. ”
The event began with Ma announcing at the begin -
ning of the event that she will “free” her breasts, after 
which both male and female participants removed 
their shirts. 
Thurgood Marshall College junior Aubrey Oxley 
said to the Guardian that society has been coercing 
women to be afraid of exposing their bodies and there 
is no reason for women to be afraid of what is natural.
“[As] women, we shouldn’t be uncomfortable with 
our bodies because these are the bodies that we have, these are the bodies that we are born with, ” Oxley said. 
“There’s no reason for us to feel afraid other than just 
that what society has made us feel. We’ve been social -
ized to be afraid. ”
Eleanor Roosevelt College freshman Annika Reno 
stated that, although participating in the event made 
her feel uncomfortable, it was a necessary act.
“It is uncomfortable for everyone, but it is some -
thing that needs to be done, ” Reno said. “I think that 
the fact that it isn’t comfortable makes it even more 
compelling and revolutionary. ”
It was not until the 1930s that men in the United 
States were legally allowed to publicly expose their 
nipples. Now, women across the nation are campaign -
ing for legalization of the public exposure of female 
nipples, declaring that it should be considered a right. 
According to Oxley, the movement began during 
the 2014 Topless March in New Y ork City. Oxley dis -
cussed how the event instigated a change in people’s 
perceptions of female body parts. 
“Men actually had to cover up their nipples, as 
well, but that law changed. If you look back into 
centuries, past women couldn’t even show their   B y  Bruce B.Y. Lee   STAFF WRITER 
SD Public Library Unveils Comic-Con Exhibit
Located in the library’s Jacobs Common, the showcase will be open to the public in June.See  DEMONSTRATION , page 3
See  COMICS  page 3Report Shows 
Decrease in 
Crime at Sun 
God FestivalSGF
Administrators concentrated 
on educating students about 
responsible substance usage 
and effective bystander support.
B Y  Rosina Garcia
Copy Editor
See SGF , page 3Last Thursday, May 14, the UCSD 
Police Department released the crime 
log for the 2015 Sun God Festival 
weekend, revealing fewer drug and 
alcohol-related incidents than last year. 
Associate Vice President of 
A.S. Concerts and Events Seraphin 
Raya attributed these results to the 
new safety measures initiated by the 
Sun God Festival Health and Safety         
3Task Force. 
“These measures are put in place as 
health and safety measures, ” Raya told 
the UCSD Guardian. “ As any other 
large festival, our aim is to ensure that 
we are doing our part in ensuring 
that illicit substances are not entering        
the festival. ”
Chancellor Khosla created the 
task force to address student behavior, 
campus policies pertinent to health 
and safety measures associated with 
the Sun God Festival. Drug-detection 
dogs, amnesty boxes for drugs and 
requiring residents to wear a wristband 
to indicate their place of residence were 
among the new policies implemented 
at this year’s festival.
This year, university administrators 
focused on drug and alcohol education 
through the “Stay with Me” campaign. 
This campaign sought to inform 
students how to drink responsibly, to 
encourage students to look out for 
each other when partying and also 
to reveal the reality of “pure molly, ” 
which, as the campaign explained, is 
not always as pure as people think. 
Training students how to take care 
of themselves in potentially harmful 
situations was key to the task force’s 
strategy for the festival, according         
to Raya.
Furthermore, AVP of Student 
Advocacy Ryan Huyler said that the 
implementation of the beer garden 
at this year’s festival was also a tactic 
created to curb excessive drinking 
prior to the festival. 
“The beer garden was a great idea 
to limit the dangers of binge drinking, ” 
Huyler admitted to the Guardian. “I 
think it is much more pragmatic to 
tell students how to use drugs safely, 
including drinking, than it is to tell 
them not to do them and expect that. ”
In addition, the Office of Student 
Conduct sustained the Responsible 
Action Protocol this year in order to 
allow students to seek medical help 
for alcohol or drug-related incidents. 
RAP was created to remove the fear of 
being reprimanded for seeking help for 
alcohol consumption or drug misuse. 
Students who used RAP were 
not subjected to the same student 
conduct process if they met certain 
requirements, as per the student 
conduct rules. SAN DIEGO
B Y   Simon Yu
Contributing writeR
Photo by Taylor Sanderson / UCSD Guardian2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 21, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG N EWS
A COUPLE OF DERPS By Elyse Yang
Registration for SPRING Qtr is NOW open!
Register online at 
as.ucsd.edu/saferides
A.S. Safe Rides allows registered undergraduate 
stude nts to get 3 FREE rides per quarter.
Stude nts must register at least 24 hours
prior to their first ride. A.S. Safe Rides 
asucsd asucsd
YOUR NEWS...
NOW.
ucsdguardian.orgA new study by researchers at the 
UCSD School of Medicine and the 
V A San Diego Healthcare System 
implies that those who suffer from 
post-traumatic stress disorder have 
a greater risk of accelerated aging.
In its study, the team looked at a 
wide range of age-related biological 
indicators and signs of early 
occurrence for diseases typically 
associated with old age.
“We reviewed a number of 
published papers on PTSD and 
aging, ” Dr. Dilip V . Jeste, senior 
author of the study and director 
of the Center on Healthy Aging 
and Senior Care at UCSD, said. 
“The review found multiple lines 
of evidence connecting PTSD with age-related biological markers or 
health conditions. ” 
According to Jeste, those afflicted 
with PTSD tended to have higher 
levels of chemicals associated with 
aging. As a result, PTSD sufferers 
are more susceptible to adverse 
health conditions, like dementia, 
heart disease and diabetes.
Moreover, the results of the 
study have wider implications in 
that they may change how doctors 
and medical researchers approach 
PTSD care and treatment in the 
future.
“The results suggest that PTSD 
is not merely a mental illness 
but [something that] also affects 
physical health, ” Jeste explained 
to the UCSD Guardian. “When 
working with veterans or others 
with PTSD, doctors and medical 
researchers need to be alert to the physical systemic issues and make 
certain their patients’ overall health 
is attended to and the individuals 
receive appropriate medical and 
psychological treatments. ”
Jeste also explained how different 
medical approaches are needed in 
treating PTSD in light of this new 
study. 
“What the persons with PTSD 
need is not just psychological 
treatment but a combined medical-
psychiatric approach, ” Jeste said. 
“We should not only focus on 
mental symptoms and flashbacks 
but make sure that the PTSD 
sufferers’ physical health is also 
attended to properly. ”
However further research is still 
needed to figure out the underlying 
link between PTSD and accelerated 
aging.
“[Our research] shows an association of PTSD with rapid 
aging but does not prove causation, ” 
Jeste said. “We plan to conduct 
prospective, longitudinal studies to 
determine if and how PTSD causes 
rapid aging. ”
Jeste also explained how his team 
will seek to learn what factors are 
associated with rapid aging, such as 
smoking, substance use, depression 
and poor healthcare.
“We will plan to follow people 
with and without PTSD over several 
years to see what changes occur 
in their age-associated biological 
markers and physical illnesses and 
also examine mortality rate, ” Jeste 
said.SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
Patients are sensitive to poor health conditions due to the increased production of premature senescence chemicals.
B Y  Andrew Chao
Staff WriterResearch Suggests Link Between PTSD and Accelerated Aging
Andrew Chao  avchao@ucsd.edu readers can contact
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGsee more atThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and 
Thursdays during the academic year by UCSD students 
and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this 
newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, 
without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2015, all 
rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible 
for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The 
views expressed herein do not necessarily represent 
the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of 
California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian 
is funded by advertising. It’s like herding cats.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.orgBusiness Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Editor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
  
Associate News Editor
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Social Media Coordinator
Training and Development
Page Layout
Allison Kubo
Distribution
Christopher Graves, Josef Goodyear, Vincent Pham
Copy Readers
Andrew Chao, Caroline Lee, Sage Schubert Christian, Marissa 
Barber, Heejung Lim
Editorial Assistants
Shelby Newallis, Karly Nisson, Mario Attie, Katie Potts,
 Allison Kubo, Jacky To, Olga Golubkova  Aleksandra Konstantinovic
Andrew E. Huang  
Taylor Sanderson
Tina Butoiu
Kriti Sarin
Cassia Pollock
Marcus Thuillier
Teiko Yakobson
Jacqueline Kim
Kyle Somers
Nilu Karimi
Siddharth Atre
Jonathan Gao
Joselynn Ordaz
Sherman Aline
Elyse Yang
Annie Liu
Rosina Garcia
Jennifer Grundman
Laura Chow
Vincent Phamankles because ankles were sexual -
ized, ” Oxley said. “We live in a very 
misogynic society where women’s 
bodies are hypersexualized, and this 
[movement] is the first step [away 
from that]. ”
Incoming UCSD Associated 
Students President Dominick 
Suvonnasupa told the Guardian that 
the event promotes gender equality in society.
“I believe that men and women 
should have equal opportunity and 
equal rights. It might seem trivial 
to a lot of people, but why is it that 
there’s inequality between guys and 
girls?” Suvonnasupa said. “Why can’t 
they be topless when they want to?”
The event concluded without any 
arrests or legal consequences after 
two hours. Ma said she believed the 
event was a success.“When you know you’re right, 
it’s not scary, ” Ma told the Guardian. 
“I want everyone to be comfortable 
with their bodies and to be comfort -
able enough to see other people being 
comfortable [with] their own bodies. ”
Additional reporting by Jacky To.
occasions.
“Culled from the archives of 
Comic-Con International, the artwork 
included reflects an eclectic mix of 
characters and comics and provides 
unprecedented access to original art 
by over 60 comic artists, ” West said. 
“Much of the original work on display 
was produced for event publications. 
Approximately 20 works are cover art 
from Comic-Con, WonderCon and 
the Alternative Press Expo program 
guides and souvenir books. ”
However, West explained that the 
featured pieces consist of much more than cover works and also include 
artists’ preliminary sketches.
“Some of the gems of the show 
are the souvenir-book art, small 
sketches by comic masters that 
often mark events, anniversaries and 
tributes, ” West said. “In both, visitors 
will have a chance to learn about the 
history of Comic-Con, and in seeing 
the artist’s hand in original works, 
they will also learn a great deal about 
the process of creating comic art 
over the last 45 years. ”
Muir College fifth-year 
Lawrence Chit commented on the 
underrepresentation of comic art and 
expressed interest toward the future availability of a similar exhibit at 
Geisel Library.
“It would be interesting to have one 
at UCSD, ” Chit said in an interview 
with the Guardian. “There really 
hasn’t been a place for comic book 
artists, from what I observe as an art 
student here, so that would be fairly 
interesting and inclusive. Comics are 
important, too. ”
Comic-Con International did not 
respond to the Guardian’s inquiries 
about the possibility of a similar 
exhibition on campus.“The one thing that was a pleasant 
surprise was that people were checking 
themselves into Detox and that 10 
percent of the people in detox were 
checked in using RAP , ” Raya said. “The 
end goal is to ensure that students are 
knowledgeable in how to take care of 
themselves and know what resources 
are available to get help in sticky 
situations. ”
When determining policies to implement at this year’s festival, as 
well as at future festivals, Raya claimed 
that students sitting on the task force 
asserted that students at UCSD are 
adults, and actions taken to ensure 
safety need to reflect this.
“The first couple of task force 
meetings during my term, a few 
members referred to students as 
‘kids’ , ” Raya admitted. “The students 
on the committee were quick to 
remind folks that we are adults and 
deserve to be treated as such. This has resulted in this different stance. 
If Student Affairs continues to have 
real adult conversations with students, 
the mutual respect can result in great 
change and trust. ”
Overall, there were 66 students 
admitted to detox, nine sent to the 
hospital and five arrested for drug-
related incidents during the weekend 
of the festival.N EWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 21, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
SAVE THE DATE:
ALL CAMPUS GRADUATION CELEBRATION
for more info, please visit seniors.ucsd.edu
The Ha/p_pieﬆ Hou/r.endLooking for the 
New Business 
Column?
Now posted every Wednesday 
night, after the A.S. Council 
meeting, online.
ucsdguardian.orgStudents Protested T opless for Two Hours Without Police Intervention
▶ DEMONSTRATION,  from page 1
Raya: SGF Task Force Now Perceives Students as Adults, Not “Kids”
Featured Art Pieces Range from Initial Sketches to Final Cover Works▶ SGF , from page 1
▶ COMICS,  from page 1Rosina Garcia  rmg008@ucsd.edu readers can contactBRUCE B.Y. Lee  byl019@ucsd.edu readers can contact
Simon Yu  siy007@ucsd.edu readers can contact4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 21, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CASSIA  POLLOCK
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
In honor of Mental Health 
Awareness Month, this week’s 
column will delve into the state 
of global mental health. Sadly, men -
tal health is not improving at the 
rate it should be for such a severe, 
widespread issue. In 2000, the World 
Health Organization published a 
report on the topic, and today’s col -
umn is a deconstruction of that report. 
First, it’s important to note that 
mental disorders are universal, 
affecting 20 to 25 percent of people 
throughout all countries and societ -
ies. Poorer individuals have a higher 
prevalence of disorders, while simulta -
neously having less access to treatment 
and care. This is most apparent in 
countries recently traumatized from 
a political or natural disaster. Some 
examples include: Syria, Nepal and 
Sierra Leone. This results in a severe 
socioeconomic gap between countries, 
with the wealthier ones having more 
access to treatment.
In the report, the WHO outlines 
three scenarios for countries to 
improve on mental health care. The 
first deals with economically poor 
countries which have little to no 
resources. To close the gap, it is rec -
ommended that they train personnel, 
provide essential drugs and move the 
mentally ill out of prisons. The train -
ing of personnel allows for easy access 
to care for those with a mental health 
disorder. On the other hand, making 
psychotropic drugs available is often 
a first-line treatment that is especially 
effective when skilled professionals 
are not available. Moving the mentally 
ill out of prisons is also an important 
step toward decriminalizing mental 
disorders while providing care within 
the community.
The next scenario involves coun -
tries with modest levels of resources. 
To improve mental health, close cus -
todial mental hospitals and instead 
integrate mental health care into gen -
eral health care. Historically, insane 
asylums, now our mental hospitals, 
isolate patients and stigmatize dis -
orders. Having a mental disorder is 
not uncommon, nor is it shameful, 
so our treatment shouldn’t be either. 
That’s why integrating mental health 
care into general care and phasing out 
mental hospitals is the way to go. 
The third scenario applies to coun -
tries with high access to resources: 
Provide further improvements in 
the management of mental disorders 
within primary healthcare and create 
community care facilities that offer 
100-percent coverage. With commu -
nity involvement, treatment becomes 
more personalized to the individuals 
living within the local area and thus 
more effective. 
Although this report was writ -
ten in 2001, we still have a ways to 
improve. In 2012, suicide, which is 
strongly linked with depression, was 
the second leading cause of death 
globally among 15 to 29-year-old 
people. Schizophrenia currently affects 
more than 21 million people world -
wide. Similarly, approximately 50 mil -
lion people worldwide have epilepsy, 
making it one of the most common 
neurological diseases globally. These 
are just a few examples, but they dem -
onstrate our point. Mental health is a 
global public health issue and should 
be treated as such. After all, as the 
WHO points out, there is no health 
without including mental health. Let’s Stop 
Judgment 
On Mental 
Illnesses
Y esterday on Library Walk, there 
were student demonstrations support -
ing the #Freethenipple campaign, led 
by graduate student Annie Ma, who 
was approached by police for exposing 
her breasts on Library Walk a few 
weeks ago. To avoid arrest, Ma carried 
a copy of the California Indecent 
Exposure laws, which specify public 
indecency as genitals being revealed 
for the purpose of sexually offending 
or gratifying oneself or others. Techni -
cally, bare female breasts are legal if 
they are not shown with sexual intent. 
To demonstrate, students con -
gregated on the grassy fields next to 
Library Walk. There was a line of men 
sitting attentively on the outskirts of 
the field, but it was rather anticlimactic 
when all the tops came off. Relaxed 
silence unfolded as most onlookers 
realized after a few minutes that when 
everyone’s nipples of all shapes, sizes 
and colors are present ... it’s not a big 
deal. It actually became quite normal -
ized. Both genders wore glitter, floral 
designs, and messages written in col -
orful body paint splayed around their 
areolas. Messages painted across chests 
included, “Still not asking for it, ” and 
“They’re just nipples. ” Some women 
wore feathered masks to protect their 
identities, while men often chose to 
duct tape “X” over their nipples in an 
ironic statement of reverse censorship.
In an interview with Balestra Entertainment, Ma explained her mo -
tivation for going topless as an issue of 
gender equality. One officer appar -
ently warned her that men will try to 
take advantage of topless women, to 
which Ma responded, “It should be my 
choice to do what I want to do. ” She 
acknowledged that modern society 
often creates a dangerous environment 
for women but argued that the mere 
appearance of female breasts should 
not be criminalized. 
Breasts are generally portrayed 
as sex objects in the media, which 
ignores some of the more fundamental 
biological purposes for their existence. 
Ma referenced breastfeeding in the 
interview, complaining that since all 
people are nurtured and fed by these 
maternal body parts, people should 
learn to love and respect breasts and 
nipples. Ma also emphasized body 
shaming as one of the inspirations 
for #Freethenipple. In today’s society, 
female breasts are stigmatized and 
hidden, presented mostly in distorted, 
hyper-sexualized outlets of the media. 
Female nipples in particular are 
commonly viewed as more erotic 
than male nipples. However, this 
perspective is not very scientifically 
supportable, implying that it may 
be a culturally learned mentality. 
A study comparing the sensitivity 
within male and female breasts by 
JPRAS found that they both have a similar number of nerve endings. In 
contrast, the nerve endings in female 
nipples are more widely spread out 
throughout the entire breast, whereas 
for men, the majority of nerves are 
closely concentrated in each nipple. 
While personal anecdotes from 
friends and the overall cultural 
perception of breasts may lead you 
to believe that men’s nipples are less 
sensitive than women, that’s not 
always true. This suggests that the 
sexualization of female breasts may 
actually just be a social construct. 
Most people don’t realize that it 
used to be illegal for men to bare 
their nipples until protests began in 
the early 1930s. According to gotop -
less.org, it wasn’t until 1936 that 
men successfully lifted the topless 
ban in Westchester, New Y ork. For 
the beginning of the #Freethenipple 
campaign, women started partici -
pating in topless demonstrations 
that were once again located in New 
Y ork’s streets. While this is clearly 
a contentious question, are visible 
nipples really such a radical idea 
for gender equality? In light of the 
demonstration, it is clear that some 
women are willing to fight for the 
right to go topless, whether that en -
tails the freedom to breastfeed their 
children in a public park without 
being shamed or to simply tan at the 
beach without a bikini top.Visible Nipples: Topless Women Are Still Not “ Asking For It”
Aleksandra Konstantinovic
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Andrew E. Huang
MANAGING EDITOR
Taylor Sanderson
MANAGING EDITOR
Cassia Pollock
OPINION EDITOR
Tina Butoiu
NEWS EDITOR
Kriti Sarin
ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITOR
Jacky To
NEWS EDITORIAL ASSISTANT
Kyle Somers
ASSOCIATE A&E EDITOR
Marcus Thuillier
SPORTS EDITOR
Rosina Garcia
COPY EDITOR
The UCSD Guardian is published twice weekly at 
the University of California at San Diego. Contents 
© 2015. Views expressed herein represent the major -
ity vote of the editorial board and are not necessarily 
those of the UC Board of Regents, the ASUCSD or 
the members of the Guardian staff.EDITORIAL  BOARD
EDITORIALS
Marcus thuillier  //
A y a t amin 
opinion@ucsdguardian.orgAcross the globe
ILLUSTRATION BY ANNIE LIU
Sun God Festival 2015 may already be a forlorn memory 
for most students heading into their finals. But with crime 
statistics from the festival released this week, it’ s important to 
take a closer look to see what went well during this year of radical changes 
for the event and what A.S. Concerts and Events can continue to improve 
on for future festivals. This year, the news is rather neatly broken into the 
good, the bad and the ugly.
Let’s start with the good: The new measures put in place to bolster 
students’ health and safety at the festival seem to have served their 
purpose. Overall, fewer students were sent to detox and to area hospitals 
than in the last several years, a good indicator that the overconsumption 
of drugs and alcohol generally went down. While stricter entry policies 
like pat-downs or drug dogs certainly had a hand in identifying illicit 
substances, the most credit for this increase to student health should 
probably be given to a general shift in the administrative attitude towards 
drugs and alcohol.
By running a beer garden and adopting policies to promote drug 
awareness and testing kits, the administration seems to have accepted 
that students regard the music festival as a day of unwinding (which, for a good number of students, includes some kind of inebriation). This new 
mindset allowed for a better focus on more responsible drug and alcohol 
use, rather than on punitive measures and sweeping these problems under 
the proverbial rug.
Still, with 21 students reported to detox and many others sent to the 
hospital, there is definitely a ways to go to achieve what ASCE’s Seraphin 
Raya has called a shift in the culture of Sun God Festival. However, this 
year’s policies were a good start, both promoting safety and encouraging 
students to make their own smart choices as adults, rather than as 
children sneaking alcohol and then overestimating their limits.
Next, the bad news, which is that the UCSD Office of Student Conduct 
admitted to using social media to catch and punish students who were 
buying and selling campus IDs. It’s important to note that a representative 
explained that the office was investigating a single case of ID sales when 
they noticed a high number of offers on a student Buy/Sell page.
The representative furthermore denied that the department “actively 
monitors” social media for student conduct violations, but that raises the 
question — how exactly do they define “actively”? While the students who 
were attempting to solicit their IDs were clearly in violation of the conduct 
See SUN GOD, page 7Shifting Mindsets
SGF15 incorporated a few marked improvements for drug safety through awareness-
raising tactics, but reports of  sexual assault indicate that considerable effort is still 
needed to create a festival free from danger.OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 21, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
SAFE
DRIVERS
NEEDED
(858)822-5098Get the perfect part-time job:
• $13.35/hour 
• On campus • Flexible schedule• Paid training • UCSD students only• Hiring now for summer training
 Details at shuttledrivers.ucsd.edu
CONFUSED MUSED By Elyse Yang
GOT ISSUES?
BE HEARD
BY YOUR PEERS!SEND YOUR 
LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Assault Prevention Demands More Concern Than Students’ ID Sales
code, it seems particularly Orwellian 
that administrators have now set a 
precedent that they can stumble upon 
alleged violations on social media 
and pursue them without a formal 
complaint. 
Surely there is a better use of 
the office’s time and resources than 
cracking down on these irresponsible 
but arguably minor offenses. 
Furthermore, as most students were 
soliciting IDs to help their non-UCSD 
friends attend the festival, perhaps it’s 
time to revisit the guest policy. With 
plenty of new regulations to keep drug 
and alcohol use in check, next year’s 
Sun God Festival should consider 
allowing certain guests, particularly 
UCSD alumni, entry to help cut down 
on ID fraud without toeing the line of 
Big Brother.Finally, the ugly side of Sun 
God Festival 2015, which is that 
one rape and one sexual assault 
were reported at the event so far. 
This statistic is about the same as 
in some previous years, with Raya 
stating that reducing access and 
consumption was successful in 
cutting drug and alcohol rates, but 
is much more difficult in regard to 
sexual assault.
To be fair to ASCE, Raya has a 
point, and sexual assault prevention 
is not solely on its shoulders, as 
universities and interest groups 
around the world struggle to stop 
sexual assault on college campuses. 
However, there are steps to take which 
could improve the culture of the Sun 
God Festival and hopefully prevent 
these crimes in future years.
One measure is to include sexual 
assault awareness in floatie training. Just as students are taught to look for 
signs of substance abuse and alcohol 
poisoning, they could learn to spot 
the signs of sexual assault. Another 
step might be to create awareness 
campaigns in the weeks leading up to 
the event that delineate inappropriate 
physical behaviors at the festival, 
which have reportedly included 
harassment and unwanted contact, 
because apparently, it’s not obvious 
enough.
While neither of these are surefire 
fixes, the issue of sexual assault is 
serious, persistent and begs more 
attention, certainly, than the sale of 
ID cards.
With one mostly successful festival 
under its belts, ASCE should feel 
confident in moving forward next 
year with improved policies that will 
allow it to host an even better and 
safer Sun God Festival 2016.▶ SUN GOD , from page 6WeekendARTS  |  FOOD & DRINK  |  LIVING  |  FILM & TV  |  MUSIC  |  THINGS TO DO
WEEKENDARTS   |   FOOD & DRINK   |   LIVING   |   FILM  &  TV   |   MUSIC   |   THINGS  TO  DO
Caught in 
the ActA&E EDITOR // 
JACQUELINE KIM 
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // 
NILU KARIMI  
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
The lights! The drama! The laughs! Undergraduate theater is alive and well at UCSD, and the Underground New Play Festival has been at the forefront 
of it for nearly a decade. This festival of five short plays is entirely staffed, produced and acted by undergraduates right here on campus. It’s a chance for 
students from all majors and colleges to make in-depth, professional-level theater. We had the special chance this year to actually peek into the rehearsal 
rooms and observe firsthand how these artists and volunteers perform their craft. Here, you’ll find plenty of the cool things we observed and learned from 
our visits. The UNPF performs the weekends of Weeks 9 and 10, and more information is available on the UCSD theater and dance website.  
— Nathan Cook
Staff Writer
Half an hour before the house opens! Yet the cast of “Polonius: A Song Unsung” is in a mess: much of the crew is missing or fighting over tech -
nological issues. ... How can it arrange everything and make sure the play will begin on time? “5 Minutes to Curtain” is a show that shifts between 
Shakespearean theater and modern theater. There is a play within a play, just like in Shakespeare’s “Hamlet,” which just so happens to be the story 
they are performing within “5 Minutes to Curtain.” Funny, dynamic and performed with exaggerated and amusing body language, this is a play you 
wouldn’t want to miss during this year’s festival.
“For me, the best part of the play is the fight between the stage manager and the actors, which is acted in a way that is as ridiculous as possible,” 
Anne Whitaker, who plays the hoped-to-be-star character Nina says. “Have no expectation for what you will see.” 
— Yidian Huang
Staff Writer
The inevitability of death can leave you feeling helpless, as if you have no control over 
what happens to you. In “ A Sunset on Mars, ” Thom, played by Josiah Glesener, becomes 
an astronaut floating above Earth to show how it feels for a man dying of cancer to be 
powerless as he watches life slip through his fingers. The cast gets into character by           
removing all distractions and experimenting with gestures, character interactions, emo -
tions and movements while listening to “ Astronaut” by Beach House. 
“It’s like the heartbeat of the play, ” Glesener said. “The melodies recall Thom’s strange 
childhood, his obsession with the vastness of space and his crippling loneliness from the 
brain tumor taking over his life. ”
The play also explores themes of interpretation and the willingness to listen. The 
Swedish words sprinkled heavily throughout the play are meant to challenge the audience 
in the way they receive language and information, as well as connect to the author’s Swed -
ish roots. Ultimately, the team has come together to convincingly expand on a man’s battle 
with cancer as he deals with the ideas of loss, disillusionment and perspective.
 — Chrissy Dodd
Contributing WriterIt’s a unique character who can be described as a cross 
between a fifth-grade bully and Rafiki from “The Lion King” 
— and “unique” is exactly what “The Monster’s Return” offers. 
Twitch, with the personality of an emotionally intelligent, 
immature child, is the monster who lives in Jamie’s closet. 
She flips the cliche of a scary monster on its head by turning 
into a type of therapist for Jamie as he returns to his child -
hood home for his estranged father’s funeral. Though the play 
abounds with sensitivity, it’s hard to take it too seriously — a 
feature the small cast, led by debut director Allison Win, 
revels in. Characters shoot snarky comments at each other 
(Twitch points out, meaningfully, that she has watched Jamie 
grow up), and Twitch has a little too much fun with a broom. 
Intertwined with the play’s inherent humor, however, is a focus 
on character — a focus deepened and drawn more acutely by 
the crew members’ clear commitment and understanding of 
their characters. “The Monster’s Return, ” then, offers a smartly 
written play devoted to characters, humor and a surprisingly 
non-monstrous humanity.
— Jennifer Grundman
Associate Copy Editor
“ As Luck Would Have It” peeks into the world after it starts to 
fall apart. A new zombie-esque disease has hit critical mass, and the 
government has implemented a quarantine. Bruce (Jordan Fergu -
son) is holed up in his store and wants as little to do with the disease 
as possible. However, when a stranger (Andrea Bensussen) looking 
for supplies enters unwelcomingly, Bruce must decide whether he 
can and should trust her. 
Though audiences have grown accustomed to and often tired 
of formulaic zombie hits, such as “The Walking Dead” and “World 
War Z, ” director Leilani Tuiletufuga believes that the play is not your 
typical zombie-apocalypse story.
“ At the core of this play, it’s about humanity, it’s about compas -
sion and it’s ultimately about forgiveness and trust, ” Tuiletufuga said. 
Loaded with tense dialogue, poetic action sequences and a 
challenging ending, “ As Luck Would Have It” serves as both an 
audience-pleaser and a thought-piece by shelving the zombie 
“drama” and delivering genuine human drama.
— Jacky To
News Editorial AssistantAs the sun goes down and the night 
flies by, time is running out for a group of 
best friends to say any last words they may 
have to one another in the play, “Dimmer 
Switches. ” Written by graduating senior 
Aaron Flores, this play will return audiences 
to fond memories of youth and the struggles 
of growing up and apart.
“I think it’s a piece that covers one of the 
classic dilemmas of love intermingling with 
friendship, ” Johnny Barry said, who plays 
Jaime, the smart but awkward friend who is 
the glue that binds the group together. “The 
decision to act on one’s feelings for another 
is never clear and can be a very scary one. I 
think the play does a good job of illustrating 
t h a t .”
Each of the main characters has a very 
different personality, but audiences will be 
drawn in by the sense of comradery that 
even when tested still holds strong.
— Devon Munos
Staff Writer5  Minutes  to  Curt ain
Written by Kirstin Rower
Directed by Kylie Holloway
A  SUNSET  ON  MARS
Written by Timothy Barnett
Directed byJenny GroberThe  Monster's  return
Written by Aleksandra Konstantinovic
Directed by Allison Win
as  luck  would  ha ve  it
Written by Audrey Sechrest
Directed by Leilani TuiletufugaDimmer Switches
Written by Aaron Flores
Directed by Tin LeThe Underground New Play Festival shows at The Arthur Wagner Theater 
from May 29th to June 6thWEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 21, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
SAN DIEGO 
COMMUNITY COLLEGE 
DISTRICT
Classes start June 1, 8, 15 and July 6
Visit sdccd.edu/summer for more information.Get ahead by taking one of 1,300 summer 
classes at City, Mesa, and Miramar colleges.
“Mad Max: Fury Road” 
is the result of 
restraint. Director 
and writer George Miller has quietly 
spent the last 20 years mostly work -
ing on family-friendly films (“Babe, ” 
“Happy Feet”) after directing the 
original “Mad Max” trilogy starring 
Mel Gibson. Over that same time, the 
film industry transformed into the 
behemoth it is today, allocating bigger 
budgets and ensuring conformity to 
blockbusters. Hollywood’s increasingly 
safe industrial process blanches out the qualities of a daring film because 
originality isn’t an acceptable variable 
— it’s a potential multi-million dollar 
mistake. “Fury Road” is 75-year-
old Miller’s raging antithesis to this                      
current state of blockbusters, prov -
ing that you can still bring passion 
and brilliance to the screen with a 
$150-million budget behind you. A 
film of this scale is rarely as intimate 
and original. It is a breath of fresh 
air in what has become a creatively 
stagnant crop of blockbusters because 
it chooses not to restrain its own ambi -tious vision.
Fugitive Max Rockatansky (Tom 
Hardy) aids the rogue Imperator      
Furiosa’s (Charlize Theron) harem 
rescue out of necessity in post-          
apocalyptic outback Australia while 
being chased by the combined 
barbaric troops of Gas Farm, Bullet 
Town and the War Boys. A majority 
of the film is the chase, with incred -
ible stunts and a reliance on practical 
effects. The few breaks in action carry 
a quiet intensity to them, anchored 
with the reluctant partnership made 
between Furiosa and Max. This could 
have aptly been called “Mad Max: Fu -
riosa” because of how Max, truly mad 
and haunted by the cries of those he 
couldn’t save, plays a secondary role to 
her mission. Hardy doesn’t say much 
as him, instead relying on harsh grunts 
and a fabulously expressive face to get 
his point across. In fact, this entire film could work without sound because 
of the bombastic visuals, which lend 
a universality that’s lacking in most 
films.
“Fury Road” upends more than 
just the visual conventions of the    
typical blockbuster, like women  actu -
ally having agency and as much depth 
as the bevy of male characters instead 
of being secondary concerns for the 
plot. Imperator Furiosa’s dedication 
and rationale are outright admirable 
and Theron steals the show with her 
performance. The color grading of the 
film doesn’t leave us in the drab gray 
and browns of the typical blockbuster, 
but instead greets us with the bright 
blue of the sky and the endless golden 
sea of sand. The action is frenetic with 
shots regularly lasting no more than 
seconds, but Miller’s masterful pacing 
somehow lets us keep track of every -
thing as the wheels roll and the guns are fired. The themes of environmen -
talism and capitalism are skillfully ex -
plored with the dynamics of the film’s 
universe, a far cry from the ham-fisted 
efforts of James Cameron’s patronizing 
“ Avatar. ” Violence abounds and it isn’t 
seen as a choice, but the cost of surviv -
al — a means to an end. There’s weight 
behind every bullet shot and every 
head torn, acknowledging the human 
death toll. Miller was able to shoot a 
film, a masterwork no less, that has 
the energy of a young director and the 
craftsmanship of a seasoned veteran 
within the confines of a creatively 
restrictive industry. “Fury Road” is the 
Ninety-Five Theses nailed to the drab 
door of Disney, a condemnation of 
the modern blockbuster that practices 
what it preaches.
—    sam  velazquezFILM   REVIEW
Directed by  George Miller
Starring   Tom Hardy, Charlize Theron, Nicholas Hoult, Zoe Kravitz
Rated R
Release Date May 15The best film of the year so far comes in the shell 
of a Hollywood blockbuster.MAD     MAX
the  womba ts
at  house of blues
Concert Date  May 13
Other Acts Cheerleader, Life in FIlm
The Wombats bring energy and enthusiasm to “Glitterbug” tour.CONCERT   REVIEW
On May 13, The Wombats livened 
downtown San Diego’s 5th Avenue 
with dynamic enthusiasm, left un -
polished by flashy gimmicks or hollow state -
ments. The British indie-pop group is a fan’s 
band, a talented trio that wins crowds over 
simply by loving what they do. Expectedly, The 
Wombats’ concert was in some ways a modest 
affair: The minimal stage setup might as well 
have been erected in one of the band member’s 
garages, and the Liverpool natives’ casual en -
trance suggested the start of an informal sing-
along among friends. With only a keyboard, 
drum set and guitars, the trio managed to  cre -
ate a massive sound and an infectious energy 
fit to fill stadiums much larger than the House 
of Blues.
It’s no question that a great show involves 
several factors: impressive musicianship, a 
lively stage, engaging banter and an absorbed 
audience. The Wombats easily fulfilled each 
criterion, delivering an energetic performance 
enhanced by colorful lights and witty, unpre -
tentious banter. The band dedicated songs to 
members of the audience, wished happy birth -
days and thanked specific individuals who had 
come to each of their California shows. This 
added a distinctive personal touch, contribut -
ing to an enthusiastic environment that en -
couraged vital crowd participation.
After animated performances by talented 
indie-rock band Life in Film and alt-pop 
group Cheerleader, The Wombats calmly en -
tered the stage, donning unglamorous T-shirts 
and tennis shoes, only complimented by tou -
sled, unstyled hair — a fitting look for a band 
unwilling to sacrifice any onstage energy to 
restrictive attire. Their performance of the dy -
namic hit, “Y our Body Is a Weapon, ” explained 
the preference for comfort over costume: Ex -
aggerated guitar strums, uninterrupted jump -
ing and powerful vocals left the band sweaty after just one song. But they didn’t slow down; 
no member showed any sign of well-warranted 
fatigue as the show progressed.
Throughout every song, guitarist, bass -
ist and keyboardist Tord Overland Knudsen 
jumped back and forth across the stage, play -
ing his guitar with a skill unhindered by his 
endearingly cheerful energy. At the end of 
“Little Miss Pipedream, ” an older tune front-
man Matthew Murphy dedicated to early 
fans, Knudsen reached out to the crowd, sing -
ing along with them as Murphy cried out the 
lyrics to an audience that seemed to know                  
every word.
A mosh pit formed during the uplifting 
tune “Techno Fan” — an unusual scene for a 
performance by a band frequently categorized 
as tame indie-pop. But no energetic Wednes -
day night concert was ever complete without 
a rowdy audience, and the band’s infectious 
beats and animated performances of their 
poppy hits demanded nothing less than a live -
ly crowd. The band’s long set list covered all 
of their hits, rewarding fans with new and old 
favorites that turned into massive sing-alongs 
and lively dance parties.
At the close of their two-song encore, The 
Wombats played “Let’s Dance to Joy Division, ” 
a track that elicited a chant of “Everything is 
going wrong/ But we’re so happy, ” an incred -
ibly apt finish to an exhilarating performance 
that acted as a simple but powerful reminder 
that enthusiasm can make a difference between 
a great day — or show — and a mediocre one. 
—    karl y  nisson 
editorial assistant8     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 21, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
ASCE.UCSD.E DUFor mor e informa tion, c ontact A SCE a t
avpconcerts@ucsd. edu or (858) 5 34-04 77theloft.ucsd.edu
THE LOFT DOORS AT 8PM
UCSD STUDENTS ONLY5.21.2015FIERCE
THE ASCE DANCE
Initially a part of traditional cultural expressions — an essential element of various countercultures of 
the last two centuries and now a rather mainstream type of body modification today — getting a piercing is 
something you might be currently considering. While more and more people are turning to professionals, 
not all are able to provide quality-piercing services. That’s why, before you get any holes poked, it is essential to do 
your research to make sure the shop you’ve chosen is truly top-notch. But who are we kidding? Pestering a pierc -
ing shop with questions about the whole piercing process is a quite uncomfortable procedure that the majority of 
us would rather avoid. But there is another way! The UCSD Guardian is here to provide you with personal expe -
riences about arguably one of the best piercing shops in San Diego — Enigma Professional Piercing Studio.
Located on a quiet street in Pacific Beach, one of the two studios looks like a hut surrounded by banana 
trees somewhere in a tropical forest. The interior is not much different from the exterior. The lobby smells like 
wood, the walls are decorated with pictures of tribal piercings and big window cases with intricate jewelry stand 
around the perimeter of the room. Visitors read National Geographic magazines while 
waiting for their turn (lines here can actually be quite long, since Enigma works on a 
walk-in basis), adding to the feeling of being taken away to some exotic locale. When 
the wait is over, your piercer will take perfect care of you: explaining the procedure, giv -
ing directions and entertaining you with conversation in the most nervous moments.
When it comes to safety, Enigma does not hide anything from its clients. All infor -
mation on sterilization methods is provided on the shop’s website and, in fact, matches 
reality. The employees sterilize their equipment using a special autoclave machine that 
utilizes a combination of steam pressure and heat. This is an effective way to sterilize 
reusable piercing equipment, but just to make sure that every individual set of tools is 
exposed to the proper amount of heat, Enigma additionally uses temperature-sensitive 
integrating indicator stripes. After filling out all the paperwork, clients receive a stripe 
that they sign with their initials. Right before the piercing procedure, clients personally 
make sure that their indicator demonstrates that the tools were properly sterilized and 
are ready to be used. 
Not only are the tools sterile but they are also simple. On many Y ouTube videos, 
piercers use special equipment, like clamps, that help direct the needle. However, 
Enigma piercers do not use anything but a piercing needle (after all, did you know that 
piercing guns were initially created to tag livestock?). 
Like their tools, Enigma’s jewelry is also safe. They are made of surgical stainless 
steel, used for prostheses and implants, meaning if this metal is safe enough to wear 
inside of our bodies, it can surely be used as piercing jewelry material. In addition, the 
salon doesn’t use externally threaded jewelry, since it can easily damage pierced skin 
and complicate the healing process. Speaking of the healing process, Enigma piercers 
provide aftercare instructions and a little bag of sea salt needed to prepare a cleansing 
solution.Enigma Piercing in Pacific Beach
2079 Garnet Ave.
San Diego, CA 92109-3525
(858) 274-9950
 
HOURS:
Every day, 11 a.m. to 9 p.m.
 
ID needed    Enigma Piercing in Pacific Beach
2079 Garnet Ave.
San Diego, CA 92109-3525
(858) 274-9950
 
HOURS:
Every day, 11 a.m. to 9 p.m.
 
ID needed    Written by 
Olga Golubkova
// Senior Staff Writer
Design by
Sherman Aline
// Associate Design Editor
Illustrations by
Sherman Aline
& Olga Golubkova
PHOTO BY MATTHIAS SCHEER / GUARDIANWEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 21, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
BEAR GARDEN_________
FREE FOR ALL UCSD UNDERGRADS
MAY 22, 3-6 PM, MATTHEWS QUAD
Churros
El TigreLittle
CaesarsDelicioso
Catering
Food TruckKettle
Masters 
Kettle Korn
“I went randomly with my 
roommate and her friend. They 
were getting their  pierc -
ings, so I thought 
‘Why not pierce 
my cartilage?’ 
We didn’t wait 
at all because 
it was the 
evening. [The] 
healing pro -
cess was also 
fine, though 
they didn’t men -
tion how to take 
out a piercing, which 
I guess is supposed to be 
intuitive, but I had no idea. A 
little on the expensive side but 
they seem to know what they’re 
doing and it was a pleasant 
experience. ”
 —  Helen Lee
UCSD ‘14 alumna“I got my nose pierced at their Pacific 
Beach location about two months ago. 
The whole process was very clean; all of 
the tools the piercer used were sterile or 
came out of a new package. The wom -
an who pierced my nose was a little 
opinionated, but she seemed to 
know a lot about piercing, though. 
She made a remark about the place 
I got my ears pierced, not know -
ing what they were talking about 
because you’re never supposed 
to have to turn piercings (the 
people who pierced my ears 
told me to turn the piercings). 
Overall, it was a great experi -
ence. I haven’t had any trouble with 
my piercing since. They gave me 
detailed instructions on care, and 
I would definitely go back if I need 
anything else done. ” 
— Jessica Walters
Thurgood Marshall College sophomore “I first found out about Enigma through Y elp. The 
place had full stars and hundreds of reviews, so my 
friend and I decided to get our piercings done there. I 
wanted to pierce my cartilage for the third time around. 
I’ve had issues in the past with getting infections with 
my cartilage piercings so the area is pretty sensitive. My 
piercing was $80, including the earring itself. Although 
it is definitely in the high-end price, it was definitely 
worth it. They consulted the position of the piercing, 
and throughout the entire process, 
they were very amiable and 
calming. Overall, I have 
nothing but good things 
to say about this place. 
If you get 80 bucks out 
of me for a piercing and 
leave me happy and 
satisfied, then this place 
must be a damn good 
place. ” 
— Diana Wu
Eleanor Roosevelt College junior
I personally visited Enigma twice — once to get my ears pierced and, four months later, to get my septum done. Both procedures were totally 
painless for me, thanks to Evan, who was my piercer for both procedures. But since the piercing experience is different for every single person, 
here are opinions from other UCSD students who decided to put themselves into Enigma piercers’ hands, as well:
PHOTO BY MATTHIAS SCHEER / GUARDIAN
photo by Siddharth Artre / Guardian
photo by Siddharth Artre / GuardianSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 21, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
Shirley was 2-for-4, Larsen was 
1-for-3 and Levy went 3-for-4 to 
lead the Tritons into the last day of 
the tournament. 
“We talked yesterday about not 
being done, about wanting to play 
more baseball, and in this situation, 
you [have to] rely on your seniors, ” 
UCSD Head Coach Eric Newman 
said. “These two guys, [Kolodin and 
Levy], right here along with other 
guys, did a good job to lead us on to 
Mo n d a y.”
Having survived two elimination 
games, UCSD advanced to the final 
day of competition, where the men 
would have to defeat both Cal Poly 
Pomona and Azusa Pacific again to 
reach the NCAA. The Tritons got 
the first part done but could not end 
their incredible run with a success. 
Despite falling behind early after 
Azusa Pacific scored a run in the 
first inning, the Tritons never lost 
their composure. They retaliated in 
the bottom of the second, putting in 
two runs of their own from Lewis 
and Flatt. UCSD kept on building 
on their lead, scoring one run in the 
fifth, sixth and eighth innings. Up 
5–1, UCSD saw Azusa Pacific try a 
comeback in the top of the ninth. 
The Cougars put up two runs, but 
left-handed pitcher Trevor Scott got 
a game-ending groundout to third 
base with one runner on second to 
end the game. 
Junior right-handed pitcher Alon 
Leichman (7–2) went 5 2/3 innings 
and got the win. Shirley reached base 
in his first three plate appearances and 
went 2-for-3. Flatt was 2-for-3 as well.
UCSD thus advanced to the cham -
pionship game, where CCAA foe Cal 
Poly Pomona defeated them 7–4 to 
end the Cinderella run.  
The Tritons put up the first run of the game when Shirley went home in 
the first inning. Pomona struck right 
back, in the bottom of the first, to level 
the score at one. 
The Broncos then took the lead 
in the bottom of the second but 
immediately relinquished it when 
UCSD scored three runs in the top of 
the third. Mann, Sanchez and Larsen 
scored for the Tritons to put them in 
the lead, 4–3. 
UCSD would not score again, 
however, and Cal Poly Pomona slowly 
took control of the game. The Broncos 
assumed the lead in the bottom of the 
fourth with two runs and scored two 
more runs in the seventh and eighth 
to get the win and the bid for the 
NCAAs. UCSD ended its season on 
the bitter defeat and will not go to the 
NCAA championships.
However, UCSD also finishes 
the season with a league-best,                
program-record 465 strikeouts and a 
nation-leading 311 walks, a proof of 
the Triton bullpen consistency and 
effectiveness throughout the year. 
Cruz, Larsen and Shirley were 
elected to the All-Tournament Team.
Eight seniors ended their UCSD 
career on this loss: right-handed 
pitcher Javier Carrillo Jr., catcher Brian 
Choi, Kolodin, Levy, Lewis, Mann, 
left-handed pitcher Chad Rieser and 
Scott. Triton ace Donatella might also 
be done with his collegiate career, as 
he has the potential to be drafted in 
the upcoming First-Y ear Major League 
Baseball Draft. 
The roster will have an altered look 
next season with all these departures, 
especially in the bullpen, but will 
probably again play the first roles in 
the CCAA and remain a powerful con -
tender for an NCAA championship bid.▶ BASEBALL,  from page 12Baseball Ends Record-Breaking Season
readers can contact
Marcus Thuillier   mthuiilli@ucsd.edu The UCSD men’s rowing team 
ended the season on a high note 
with two runner-up performances 
in the Western Sprints Champion -
ship on Lake Natoma in Sacramento 
this past weekend. The 2V8 and 
3V8 squads snagged second-place 
finishes, while the Varsity-8 crew 
took fourth after battling the wind 
for much of its race.
“[As a coxswain], I have an im -
mense amount of respect and admi -
ration for the rowers because of the 
physical pain they put themselves 
through, ” sophomore 3V8 coxswain 
Isa Batki told the UCSD Guardian.
The Varsity-8 squad of senior 
coxswain Sean Dougherty, sopho -
more Alec Petty, sophomore Matt 
Thalken, freshman Sean Callaghan, 
junior John Buda, junior Scott 
Kennedy, sophomore CD Dowl -
ing, freshman Hank Wong and 
sophomore Tynan Rodger placed 
fourth in a close battle at the buoy 
line after fighting the wind for the 
first half of the race. Oklahoma City               
University won the race in 6 minutes 19.5 seconds, followed by Santa 
Clara University in 6:20.5. The Tri -
tons were edged out by cross-town 
rival University of San Diego at the 
finish — the blue and gold finished 
in 6:24.9, just half a second behind 
the Toreros (6:24.4). Gonzaga Uni -
versity placed fifth at 6:26.3.
“The Varsity-8 boat got to race 
[this] lineup for the first time all sea -
son and raced one of the best second 
1,000 [meters] I’ve ever seen, ” UCSD 
head coach Zach Johnson told the 
UCSD Athletics Department. 
The 3V8 crew of Batki, sopho -
more Carson West, sophomore Ian 
Skelton, freshman Frank Chang, 
sophomore Blake Branine, senior 
Tyler Tomei, sophomore Andy 
Marshall, freshman Nick Baltar and 
sophomore Jon Baker took second 
in their race, coming in behind the 
University of San Diego. The Toreros 
finished in 6:31.9, followed by the 
Tritons (6:39.1) and Gonzaga Uni -
versity (6:45.5).
“This weekend was probably the 
toughest race the 3V8 has had all 
year, ” Batki told the Guardian. “It 
was windy, and there were a lot of 
opportunities for distractions. Even though we came in second, [the 
rowers] put all their effort out on the 
line, and I knew by the time [we] 
crossed the finish line, they couldn’t 
take another stroke. We executed our 
plan, pulled out a competitive sprint 
and hung on. ” 
The 2V8 team of sophomore    
coxswain Drake Lem, freshman 
Michael Landheer, freshman Bryan 
Brennan, freshman Kevin Chang, 
freshman Gabriel Lane, junior Daniel 
Mahan, junior Anton Hedayat, fresh -
man Jackson Lytle and freshman Sam 
Merrill-Palethorpe finished in 6:32.8, 
edging out the University of San Di -
ego (6:33.9) at the line. Gonzaga won 
the race in 6:27.0. Oklahoma City 
came in fourth at 6:35.2, followed by 
Santa Clara (6:48.5).
“I couldn’t be more proud of 
this team, ” Johnson said. “It’s a great 
young team with an awesome future. ”
Men’s and women’s rowing, with -
out NCAA postseason berths, now 
turn themselves toward next season, 
looking to build on this past season’s 
achievements.
readers can contact
Ka tie Potts    kpotts@ucsd.edu M. ROWING
Triton Men’s Crew Ends Season Strong
UCSD runners-up in 2V8 and 3V8 races, Varsity 8 places fourth in Sacramento.
B Y  Ka tie Potts
Editorial Assistant           
my jumping started to become 
more natural. ”
Tied for the sixth seed in the 
high jump, her 5-8 clearance also 
puts her on UCSD’s all-time list, a                     
remarkable feat.
“It is a huge honor to make it to 
[the] NCAAs, as a well as a rewarding 
indicator of the hard work the team and I have put in this season. I couldn’t 
ask for a better group of people to 
train and succeed with, ” she said.
The five Tritons will compete at the 
NCAA Championships in Allendale 
starting today. The meet will continue 
onto Friday and will conclude on 
Saturday.Tritons Look to Build on Qualifying Marks    
▶TRACK AND FIELD,  from page 12
readers can contact
Rosina Garcia   Rmgoo8@ucsd.edu 
PHOTO USED WITH PERMISSION FROM UCSD ATHLETICSSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
MARCUS THUILLIER
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 21, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
Tritons 
Fall Short
Season ends with loss in final round of D-II W est Regional.
No. 30 and fifth-seeded UCSD fell just short of an NCAA tournament 
berth when they lost to No. 13 Cal Poly Pomona in the West Region 
Playoffs Final on Monday afternoon. UCSD battled through three 
elimination games after losing in the opening round to Azusa Pacific University. 
The Tritons went on to win against Point Loma Nazarene University, Dixie State 
University and Azusa Pacific University before seeing the season terminated by 
their California Collegiate Athletic Association foe. 
UCSD had started down the “road to Cary, North Carolina, ” where the NCAA 
championships are held, when it fell to Azusa Pacific 17–11 in a very high-scoring 
game. The defeat put UCSD in the elimination bracket side of the double-      
elimination tournament.  
Junior right-handed pitcher Justin Donatella (9–3) entered the game with just 
eight runs allowed total over the season. His fortune quickly changed, as Azusa 
Pacific put up a four-run inning in the bottom of the first. 
UCSD quickly fell behind but reduced the gap to 5–2 in the top of the fourth 
when redshirt freshman outfielder Justin Flatt scored off of sophomore infielder 
Tyler Howsley’s single up the middle. That ray of hope was short-lived, as Azusa 
Pacific got a seven-run fifth and a five-run sixth to break the game open. Dona -
tella even got replaced in the middle of the fifth inning. The Tritons put up seven 
unanswered runs in the seventh and eighth, but the game was already far out       
of reach. 
Donatella increased his strike total to a league-leading 109 but allowed a 
season-high nine runs in 4 1/3 innings. Sophomore outfielder Brandon Shirley 
reached base in his first five plate appearances, while Howsley got a career-high 
four hits and three RBIs in the very offensive game.
UCSD moved on to the second day of competition, where it had to win to stay in the competition. The Tritons did so when they edged city rival Point Loma 7–5. 
The blue and gold got a 1–0 lead when junior infielder Troy Cruz scored in the 
second inning. They continued to pressure Point Loma, even extending their lead 
to 4–0 in the fourth, when freshman infielder Tyler Plantier, senior infielder Erik 
Lewis and senior catcher Brett Levy each scored. UCSD thought it had secured 
a win after the team put one more run on the board when sophomore outfielder 
Jack Larsen ran to home in the fifth. 
Point Loma answered in the bottom of the seventh and eighth, putting up 
five unanswered runs to tie the game up, threatening to end the Tritons’ season. 
However, Cruz, the hero of the game, scored in the bottom of the eighth to put 
them back on top. Lewis put another run on the board to raise the score 7–5 and 
securing the UCSD victory. 
Larsen went 3-for-4 and Cruz went 1-for-2, putting up two runs. Levy was 
2-for-4, while Howsley got two RBIs to put his season total to 20.
“Offensively, I was just trying to ground out and try to get on base, ” Cruz 
told the UCSD Athletics Department. “Defensively, on the mound, I tried to be         
aggressive. Late in the game with runners in scoring positions, I just stuck to my 
routine and just settled down there [to get the game-ending out]. ” 
The strong effort led to UCSD facing Dixie State University on Saturday after -
noon. The Tritons came through again with flying colors, shutting out the fourth 
seed 7–0. 
Senior right-handed pitcher Dan Kolodin (5–1) led the Tritons in a great effort. 
The offense also delivered, led by two runs by Shirley and one by junior outfielder 
Gradeigh Sanchez, Flatt, senior first-baseman Michael Mann, Larsen and Plantier. 
Cruz then closed out the game, giving UCSD its program-record 13th shutout of 
the year, the third-most nationally in Division-II.
See BASEBALL , page 11
TRACK &  FIELD
Five Tritons Earn Trip to NCAA Championships in Michigan
Athletes will face off against top Division-II competition in javelin, triple jump, high jump and pole vault Thursday through Saturday.
This year, UCSD is sending five 
of its track and field athletes to the 
NCAA Division-II Championships 
held in Allendale, Michigan over the 
weekend. Veteran qualifier senior 
Nash Howe will compete in the 
javelin, senior Ellexi Snover also in the 
javelin, freshman Matt Bowen in the 
triple jump and sophomores Chrissi 
Carr and Savanna Forry in the pole 
vault and high jump, respectively. 
Three-time qualifier Howe 
is no stranger to NCAA-level                   
competition. First qualifying as a 
sophomore in 2013, he competed in 
the NCAA championship meet in 
the javelin and earned a respectable 
seventh-place finish with a throw of 214-11. In 2014, he improved his mark 
to 229-1/4 and placed sixth. Although 
Howe has not met this mark this year, 
his status as a two-time All-American 
and three-time California Collegiate 
Athletic Association champion, as well 
as being the fourth seed in this event, 
may just push him to a higher mark at 
the NCAAs this year.
Unlike Howe, Snover has only 
been a competitor in the javelin 
for less than two years. Starting the 
season with a throw of 130-5/12, 
Snover quickly showed she was 
capable of qualifying for the event.             
Snover’s provisional qualifying mark 
of 143-5/12 feet earned her a spot 
in the NCAA championship meet, 
as the 17 seed. Competing as both a 
sprinter and a thrower has pushed 
Snover to her limits this season, but she remains positive about the contest 
this weekend.
“The coaches have been           
amazing at teaching me the skills I 
needed to make it this far, ” Snover 
told the UCSD Guardian. “I am very 
excited for the weekend. My goal [is] 
to PR because the latter part of my 
season [has] been rough, but the last 
couple of weeks, I have been focus -
ing on my javelin technique. If I PR, 
it could be enough to [advance from 
the prelims to the finals], which is 
my ultimate goal for my first time                    
to nationals. ” 
Seeded fourth in the triple jump, 
Bowen has proved that age does 
not matter when it comes to natural       
talent. Although he is only a freshman, 
Bowen easily proved that he has what 
it takes to compete at the national level. His drive and enthusiasm just 
might propel him to break the school’s 
51-3/4 record. Regardless of what hap -
pens this weekend, Bowen is just going 
to continually get better.
“This weekend, I want to break 
the school record, and if everything 
goes well, it can happen, ” Bowen said. 
“Coach Darcy [Ahner] and I have 
been working on a lot of tiny technical 
details that [can] add a few inches to 
my jump, and if I can put them all to 
work this weekend, I’ll be finishing out 
the season with a strong PR. If I could 
hit 52 feet, that would be awesome, 
but I at least want to break our 51-3/4 
school record. ”
Pole vaulter Carr is also new to 
the the NCAA competition but, like 
her teammates, has undoubtedly 
proven that she deserves to be there. As a freshman in 2014, she finished in 
eighth place in the CCAA champion -
ship meet, with a mark of 11-1 1/4. 
This year, she has improved upon that 
mark by nearly a foot. Seeded 16th in 
this event and only being a sopho -
more, Carr has nothing to lose. 
Finally, placing fourth in the high 
jump in the CCAA Championships 
her freshman year and finishing in 
second this season, Forry has shown 
improvement and promise in her 
two years on the team. After a more         
relaxing season than her last one, 
Forry effortlessly high jumped her way 
to nationals.
“Jumping is really fun, and I was 
able to incorporate that excitement 
and energy into my meets, ” Forry B Y Rosina Garcia
Staff Writer
See TRACK AND FIELD , page 11
NASH   HOWE  
JavelinEllexI   Snover
JavelinMa tt Bowen
Triple JumpChrissi    carr 
Pole VaultSa v anna Forr y
High JumpPHOTOS USED WITH PERMISSION FROM UCSD ATHLETICSPHOTO BY EMILY TIPTON / UCSD GUARDIAN