VOLUME 49, ISSUE 6   MONDA Y , OCTOBER 12, 2015  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
GET READY FOR 
THE BIG ONE
Find out the best ways to 
prepare for the large quake 
scheduled to rock Southern 
California. The UCSD Guardian 
talked to seismologists and 
Emergency Services to get the 
full shake down. 
A   GREEK  CRITIQUE
VOLEYBALL  IN  TURMOILrecruitment   hea ts  up
Poor hitting streak continuesopinion,  P age   4
Sports,  P age  12
MONDAY
H 87 L 72TUESDAY
H 85 L 69
WEDNESDAY
H 81 L 67THURSDAY
H 79 L 66
FORECAST
VERBATIM
LOOK IN THE MIRROR AND 
ANNOUNCE TO YOURSELF , “I 
AM A SEXY , MOTHER-FLIPPING 
BEAST!” THEN REPEAT 
THAT 10 TIMES, WITH EACH 
SUCCESSIVE CHANT IN A 
SLIGHTLY LOWER REGISTER OF 
YOUR VOICE. WHEN YOU FINISH 
YOUR VOICE SHOULD BE AT A 
DEEP GROWL. MARVEL AS YOU 
ASCEND INTO YOUR BUFFEST 
FORM.”
- HOW TO GURU
OPINION , PAGE 4
INSIDE
TEXTBOOKS  .................... 2
DIGNITY IN DYING  ........... 4
SEAGER CO  ..................... 8
CALENDAR  .................... 10
CROSS COUNTRY  .......... 12“FEA TURES,  P AGE  6
ILLUSTRATION BY CHRISTINA CARLSON 
The National Institute of Health 
announced this week that it will grant 
UCSD approximately $30 million 
under its 4D Nucleome Program. 
These grants will fund research 
centers that aim to determine how 
the structure of DNA is organized.
The program will also research 
ways of visualizing and gathering 
information about the miniscule 
and dynamic structures inside of 
the nucleus. Scientists hope that 
this information will help them 
understand the roles of gene 
regulation in order to learn more 
about human health and diseases.
The initiative involves six 
interrelated groups that involve granting 29 awards to 24 different 
institutions in the United States. 
UCSD will receive one quarter of 
the total funding for the program 
and will lead the administrative 
infrastructure of the program as 
well as lead two research initiatives 
of its own.
There are two major components 
of this initiative that UCSD 
researchers are involved in. The first 
is the 4D Nucleome Organizational 
Hub, which covers many of the 
organizational aspects of the entire 
program and collaborates with other 
initiatives to serve as a resource tool. 
The second initiative that 
UCSD is participating in is called 
Nuclear Organization and Function 
Interdisciplinary Consortium, and 
this initiative of the NIH program will work toward developing and testing                                                                   
new technologies and methods.  
Shu Chien, a bioengineering 
professor at UCSD, discussed how 
UCSD’s leading position in multiple 
disciplinary fields is part of the 
reason why it was selected to be a 
large part of this project.
“The funding of the 
organizational hub to UCSD through 
rigorous peer review is a recognition 
of the leading position of our 
university in this multidisciplinary 
field and our ability to coordinate 
the team research throughout 
the country, ” Chien said to the 
UCSD Guardian. “UCSD has a 
well-established interdisciplinary 
structure to pursue team research, University Surpasses Annual 
Private Fundraising Record
UCSD completed its record-breaking year of 
private fundraising on Sept. 24, during which 
it raised $177.5 million.
The amount collected came from over 43,000 gifts 
and grants to the school. This sum exceeded last 
year’s total of $148.3 million by 20 percent. Other 
UC campuses such as UCLA raised $643 million in 
the same year while UC Berkeley raised $395 million 
during the 2013-14 fiscal year.
Vice Chancellor for Advancement Steve Gamer told 
the UCSD Guardian how fundraising helps  supplement 
the school’s budget in addition to state funding.
“Public universities like UCSD receive just a fraction 
of their total annual budgets from state funding, ” Gamer 
said. “Thus, charitable contributions are critical to 
ensure excellence, now and in the future. ”
UCSD Health Services received the majority of 
the funds with 56 percent of the total amount. Of this 
allotment, a gift of $20 million went toward the future 
Jacobs Medical Center, which is expected to open in 2016. This center will serve as the largest hospital 
project in Southern California and will look to provide 
care for advanced surgical procedures, cancer and 
specialized treatment for women and infants.
The largest contributors were foundations 
that donated approximately 37.6 percent of the 
total funds. Robert and Allison Price, the son 
and daughter-in-law of Sol Price, the namesake 
of Price Center, donated $6 million via Price 
Philanthropies to the Birch Aquarium at Scripps 
Institution of Oceanography. This established the 
Price Philanthropies Ocean Science Education 
Fund, which provides an outreach program in the 
ocean and earth sciences. 
Gamer denoted that donors have discretion over 
how their contributions are used and spent.
“Most donations are designated to a specific area 
and for a specific purpose; for instance supporting 
a scholarship in dance, ” Gamer said. “Unrestricted 
gifts are designated by the academic leader in the   B y  Simon  Yu    Staff Writer Congressmen 
Propose Bill 
to Subsidize 
TextbooksCALIFORNIA UC SYSTEM
Statistics indicate that 
university textbook prices 
have increased by almost 
1,041 percent since 1977.
By   J a c ky  T o
Associate News Editor
See  TEXTBOOKS , page 3Senate Minority Whip Dick 
Durbin (D-IL) introduced the 
Affordable College Textbook Act 
to Congress on Oct. 8. If passed, 
the bill would provide grants to 
professors who convert to using 
open textbooks — which are free, 
electronic and publicly accessible — 
and would save students hundreds 
of dollars, if not more, every year.
In Durbin’s home state, 
professors already piloted the 
program at the University of 
Illinois. The college used a $150,000 
federal grant to  design a textbook 
for an introductory environmental 
sustainability course and published 
it electronically for free and 
open use. According to Durbin, 
approximately 60,000 students from 
multiple universities have accessed 
the textbook.
“ At least a dozen schools 
throughout the country have 
contacted the University of Illinois 
about the text or are using it today, ” 
Durban stated in an Oct. 8 press 
release. “The Affordable College 
Textbook Act can replicate and 
build on the successes we’ve already 
seen in Illinois. ”
Ethan Senack, a Higher 
Education Advocate at the U.S. 
Public Interest Research Group, 
argued that though textbook prices 
are often overlooked, they are an 
immediate and increasingly large 
obstacle to affording college. 
“It’s clear that for students and 
families that are already struggling 
to afford a college education, it’s not 
just an expensive textbook anymore 
— it’s a serious barrier, ” Senack told 
the UCSD Guardian.
According to NBC’s review of data 
from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, 
textbook prices have risen at three 
times the rate of inflation since 
1977, amounting to a 1,041 percent 
increase. College Board recommends 
that students budget $1,225 annually 
to spend on course textbooks.
In a survey performed by PIRG, 
48 percent of students indicated 
that they changed their courses 
because of textbook costs, while 65 
percent of students revealed that 
they had opted not to purchase a 
textbook at all because it was too 
expensive. Furthermore, 94 percent 
of the latter group were concerned 
that not buying the textbook would 
negatively impact their grades in 
the course. 
Senack explained how the 
textbook market became set up in 
favor of publishers and how the 
Affordable College Textbook Act 
intends to fix that.
“Because students don’t choose UCSD Receives $30 Million for DNA Research
University will use the funds to open research hubs as part of the 4D Nucleome Program.See FUNDRAISING , page 3
See  NUCLEOME , page 3UCSD
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
By   R a a h i m a   S h o a i b
Staff Writer
Performers showcased folklore dancing at the International Day of the Girl Child reception at the Great Hall on Saturday.
Photo by Haocheng Tang /UCSD Guardian.   the books they have to buy, they’re a 
captive market and publishers have 
capitalized on that by raising prices 
every year for decades, ” Senack said. 
“This bill restores some competition 
to an industry where just a handful 
of giants have managed to prevent it. ”
Durbin argued that, since 
students have already shifted away 
from the market, the government 
should develop means to ensure that 
students continue to have access to 
materials essential to their education.
“When we  live in an age of 
ordering books online at [a] deep 
discount, we have to really understand 
that the traditional textbook market 
is changing, ” Durbin told the 
Guardian. “Let’s make it change to                                              
for  the benefit of students. ”
On the other hand, David 
Anderson, the Executive Director of 
Higher Education at the Association of American Publishers, disagreed 
with the notion that Congress should 
interfere with market forces.
“We oppose the government 
putting their thumb on the scale 
in terms of how the private market 
operates,” Anderson told the 
Houston Press.
He further argued that the bill is 
not financially salvageable, with the 
cost of developing a textbook landing                                                
between $500,000 and $3 million.
“It’s an unworkable proposal; we 
don’t think it makes a lot of sense, ” 
Anderson said. “The money has to 
come from somewhere and if it’s the 
college or university developing the 
books they may seek the money from 
tuition. ”
However, Senack clarified that 
publishers will not in any way be 
forced to change their practices. The 
bill will merely support professors 
in creating an alternative to what 
publishers provide.“It’s important to remember 
that the goal of the bill is actually 
to empower those people who are 
trying to make the change, ” Senack 
told the Guardian. “We’re not here 
to mandate anything or tell anybody 
they have to do something. We’re 
looking to provide the people who 
are interested in switching with the 
resources and training that they need 
to do so. ” 
Senator Al Franken (D-MN), 
another one of the bill’s sponsors, 
stated that the Affordable College 
Textbook Act will directly aid 
students who are struggling more 
than ever to pay for college.
“The reality is that our college 
students are taking on more debt 
than ever while also working more 
and more hours to stay afloat, ” 
Franken stated in the press release. 
“By expanding access to free online 
textbooks, our bill would help 
address this problem and allow students and families to keep more 
of their hard-earned money. ”
Other sponsors of the bill include 
Minnesota Senator Al Franken, 
Maine Senator Angus King, Texas 
Congressman Ruben Hinojosa and 
Colorado Congressman Jared Polis. 
Durbin also introduced the bill to 
Congress in November 2013, but it 
did not advance.
California passed a similar law 
this past Thursday,  the College 
Affordability Act of 2015, which 
will   allocate funds to  California 
Community Colleges and California 
State Universities for minimizing 
textbook costs. If the academic 
senates of an institutions agrees to 
adopt and develop a plan to utilize 
open education resources, they will 
be eligible to receive state funds                                  
for the program.2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 12, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
COUPLE OF DERPS By Elyse Yang 
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian 
is not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts 
or art. The views expressed herein do not necessarily 
represent the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University 
of California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian 
is funded by advertising. The Guardian office needs air 
conditioning. And fans.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Marketing Director
Laura Chow
Associate Marketing Director
Peter McInnis
Training and Development Manager
Cedric Hyon
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Vincent Pham
Rosina Garcia
Tina Butoiu
Kriti Sarin
Jacky To
Cassia Pollock 
Marcus Thuillier
Allison Kubo
Kyle Somers
Karly Nisson
Brittney Lu
Olga Golubkova
Jonathan Gao
Megan Lee
Joselynn Ordaz
Sherman Aline
Elyse Yang
Christina Carlson
Jennifer GrundmanEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
 
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
Associate Features Editor
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Sherman Aline, Allison Kubo
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim
Editorial Assistants
Sage Schubert Christian, Katie Potts, Christian DuarteSenack: Bill Would Reintroduce Competition to Traditional Textbook Market
▶ TEXTBOOKS,  from page 1
Jacky To  j6to@ucsd.edureaders can contact
CHECK OUT OUR WEBSITE ONLINE
ucsdguardian.org
REGISTER ONLINE AT AS.UCSD.EDU/SAFERIDESRegistration for FALL QUARTER IS NOW OPEN!
A.S. Safe Rides allows registered undergraduate students 
to get 3 FREE rides per quarter. Students MUST
register at least 24 hours prior to their ﬁrst ride. A.S. SAFE RIDES 
@asucsdparticular area; for instance, Dean 
Padden can decide how to spend 
unrestricted gifts donated to Social 
Sciences. ”
Alumnus Taner Halicioglu 
donated $2 million toward 
the Computer Science and 
Engineering department to benefit 
undergraduates specifically. 
According to the UCSD News 
Center, the donation is a response 
to the lasting impression a 
professor made on Halicioglu 
during his undergraduate studies. 
The department will use his gift 
to recruit, retain and support 
professors and lecturers that were 
hired with the principal task of 
educating students.
Sixth College senior Lucas 
Marzocco, a computer science 
major, discussed how an increased number of educators could improve 
the availability of courses.
“I’m glad that the money from 
Taner is going to something that the 
CSE department really needs: more 
professors and even lecturers, ” Lucas 
told the Guardian. “ All of the main 
courses are taught every quarter, but 
what about all of the electives that 
others need? Students could actually 
graduate on time because they could 
get the classes they needed, and we’ d 
have a very decent teaching staff. 
His generous donation is definitely 
appreciated, so I hope that we can 
see it in effect soon. ”
Gamer further argued that every 
division should receive financial 
funding to build a foundation for 
future achievement.
“We have many areas of need at 
UCSD, ” he said. “Private support, no 
matter how large or small, can make 
a positive impact in finding the cure for cancer, developing policies to 
promote global security and setting 
our future doctors, engineers, artists 
and entrepreneurs on the pathway to 
success by providing scholarships or 
graduate student support. ”
He disclosed the next venture’s 
intended use of campuswide action and 
its coordination with the university’s 
Strategic Plan, an initiative to have 
a student-centered, research-focused 
and service-oriented public university. 
“UCSD’s goal is to launch a 
campuswide fundraising campaign 
in November 2016 aligned to the 
needs in the Strategic Plan, ” Gamer 
said. “We need to continue to 
generate visibility about what the 
university is trying to accomplish 
to inspire and encourage donors to 
support UCSD’s vision and mission. ”NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 12, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
Future Campaign Will Complement Campuswide Strategic Plan
Researchers to Collaborate with NIH Officials for Long-Term Plan▶ FUNDRAISING,  from page 1
Simon   Yu   siy007@ucsd.edu readers can contactLIGHTS & SIRENSLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edu.
Saturday, Oct. 2
1:42 a.m. Assist Other Agency
Received 911 call from UTC area, 
female crying and asking for help. 
Referred To Other Agency. 
8:47 p.m. Medical Aid
Excessive drug use, adult male 
unconscious, unresponsive 
and transported to hospital by 
paramedics. Report Taken. 
10:16 p.m. Disturbance - Party
Party with odor of marijuana. 
Student Conduct Referral.
10:23 p.m. Noise Disturbance
Subject playing an online game and 
yelling. Will Cooperate.
Sunday, Oct. 3
4:55 a.m. Suspicious Person
Unknown male knocked on 
resident’s window and motioned for 
her to open door. Gone on Arrival. 
12:24 p.m. Stolen Vehicle
Vehicle not stolen, owner called 
back and advised vehicle found in 
parking lot. 
12:38 p.m. Petty Theft
No property stolen, misplaced in 
another locker. Cancelled. 
1:59 p.m. Missing Person
Parent unable to get ahold of son. 
Checks OK.11:45 a.m. Non Injury Accident
UC golf cart vs. wooden pallet. 
Report Taken. 
4:17 p.m. Person Down
Person appears to be sleeping on 
VA  e mb a n k m e nt .  Field Interview. 
7:11 p.m. Disturbance - Psych 
Subject
Report of female subject making 
suicidal comments, after 
questioning involved parties it 
was determined to be a domestic 
violence situation. Closed By Adult 
Arrest. 
Monday, Oct. 4
1:15 a.m. Information
Unknown person threw can from 
tower, attempting to hit resident.
2:18 a.m. Information
Fire department and San Diego 
Police en route to front of location 
for cab driver with intoxicated 
passenger who cracked window 
with his head. Field Interview. 
— KARLY NISSON
A&E EDITOR 
Follow us on Twitter 
@UCSDGUARDIAN
e.g., the Institute of Engineering 
in Medicine to which the award is 
made. UCSD was chosen not only as 
the organizational hub, but also to 
perform two other initiatives under 
this NIH Program. ”
NIH Program Leader Patricia 
Labosky told the UCSD Guardian 
that the research is expected to 
reveal important material on the 
subject of nuclear architecture and 
future advancement.“Collectively, we anticipate that 
the researchers within the 4DN 
program will elucidate important 
biological principles of nuclear 
architecture,” Labosky said. “The 
novel technologies developed 
by the NOFIC [...] will catalyze 
research within the program 
and in the broader biomedical                             
research community. ”
The NIH and awardees will 
be meeting later this month 
to discuss the specifics of the 
program, but Labosky and her colleagues expect the next five                                                           
years to be very rewarding for their 
research.
“The NIH and all the awardees 
will be gathering on the NIH 
campus later this month to establish 
the consortium and begin to work 
together as a group. ” Labosky said. 
“We anticipate some very exciting 
science over the next five years of 
the program. ”▶ NUCLEOME,  from page 1
Raahima Shoaib  rshoaib@ucsd.edu readers can contact
FIND US ON FACEBOOK 
www.facebook.com/ucsdguardianCorrection:
The Deafheaven album 
review in our previous issue 
was incorrectly attributed 
to Karly Nisson. The correct 
author is Dieter Joubert. 4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 12, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CASSIA  POLLOCK
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
How-To 
Guru: 
Prep for the 
Undie Run
With classes now in full 
swing, it’s very easy 
to put our weight on 
the backburner — quite literally. 
Studying, partying and eating late into 
the night are necessary and significant 
parts of the college experience. Don’t 
feel guilty that you’re prioritizing 
these duties over Weight Watchers. 
By now, it’s probably second nature 
to eat a potato chip each time you 
turn a page in your biology textbook. 
As a result of your surging caloric 
intake, you may resemble Violet 
Beauregarde from “Willy Wonka 
and the Chocolate Factory” when 
she expanded into a giant blueberry, 
sans blue skin. But as the quarter 
continues, you’ll begin to anticipate 
the upcoming Undie Run and other 
naked shenanigans. For these affairs, 
it’s important to be in shipshape.
With this handy-dandy guide, 
we’ll teach you how to wrestle your 
body into perfect condition, with 
ripped muscles, bulging biceps 
and a visible reduction in flab. The 
first step is to go on the Naked 
Juice diet. For breakfast, lunch 
and dinner, you will simply drink 
Naked Juice. Each bottle contains 
protein and 50 grams of natural 
sugars, which will speedily convert 
into insta-muscles.
The next step is to found 
a new club at UCSD that will 
revolutionize college fitness 
based on unconscious endurance 
exercises. The “study” treadmills at 
Geisel Library are a similar example 
to this. It’s a lot like studying and 
exercising at the same time, except 
you sleep while you move. 
Learning to develop interesting 
sleep habits, such as Restless Legs 
Syndrome, will be an important 
technique for losing weight while 
exerting as little effort as possible. 
And as for those Debbie Downers 
who say they can only choose three 
when it comes to grades, work, 
exercise, social life and sleep — 
you’ve got a leg up on them.
If sleepercise just isn’t your 
thing, you can also try a variety 
of yoga fire-breathing techniques. 
The exercises do not involve any 
physical movement but will allow 
you to hyper-focus your breathing 
in order to burn off calories at 
turbo-speed. Take a deep breath 
and then calmly breathe out. Then 
sigh. Repeat. And sigh.
Ah, that feels better doesn’t it? The 
final step in your weight-loss process 
is to never, ever step on a scale again. 
Do your suitemates have a weight 
scale? Throw it out. They will thank 
you later. These so-called “weight 
scales” do nothing beneficial for your 
self-esteem, which is absolutely key 
to lowering your overall body mass 
index. Confidence is crucial. Believing 
is seeing. Look in the mirror and 
announce to yourself, “I am a sexy, 
mother-flipping beast!” Then repeat 
that 10 times, with each successive 
chant in a slightly lower register of 
your voice. When you finish, your 
voice should be at a deep growl. 
Marvel as you ascend into your 
buffest form.
On Family Weekend, your folks 
may make some kind of vague 
commentary on your appearance 
by saying something like, “What 
happened to you?” Flash your 
brightest smile and don’t bother 
responding to their jealous remarks. 
Y our family will be long gone when 
the Undie Run begins, so take off and 
don’t look back.
Bidding Wars
ILLUSTRA TION   B Y  EL Y SE  Y ANG
Everybody dies eventually. While most people convince themselves 
they have long lives ahead of them, terminally ill patients have 
foreknowledge of their death closely looming over them. Thanks to 
California’s End of Life Act, patients have more power over the exact 
circumstances in which their lives will end. Aid-in-dying certainly 
does not deserve the same stigma as suicide, as it allows patients to 
have agency over the remainder of their fleeting lives. Despite being a 
depressing topic, the End of Life Act is an important and necessary bill.
      The New England Journal of Medicine published a study showing 
that in Oregon, which passed its Death with Dignity Act in 1997, 
physicians deny five out of six requests for aid-in-dying due to issues with 
consent, symptoms of depression or coercive feelings of burdening family 
or society. Of those granted their request, roughly a third decide against 
it. Statistics like these illustrate not only the emphasis placed on informed 
consent but also the ultimate autonomy of the patients to make their own 
uncoerced decisions, up to the very last moment.
      With California following in Oregon’s footsteps, we can clearly 
see the differences between suicide and aid-in-dying for terminally 
ill patients. The National Institute of Mental Health reports that 90 
percent of those who commit suicide suffer from a mental illness, 
primarily depression. Also, according to the Suicide Awareness Voices 
of Education, 50 percent of those with major depression receive no 
treatment, but 90 percent of those who seek professional help are 
successfully treated. 
      Clearly, suicide is preventable; if people only seek treatment, 
they can still live out long, healthy lives. One cannot say the same of 
terminally ill patients, who often deteriorate significantly in physical 
health, despite treatment, before passing away within six months. 
Furthermore, physicians must screen for mental illnesses, like depression, 
before granting a terminally ill patient aid-in-dying.
      Unlike aid-in-dying, a healthcare professional does not sign 
off on a suicide victim’s ability to give informed consent. Aid-in-dying 
empowers people who have already lost their life to illness but who seeks 
to maintain autonomy and control over their remaining time, if not to 
end it, than simply to know they possess that power.
— THOMAS FINN
 Senior Staff WriterCalifornia’s End of  Life Act is an Important New Law 
That Fairly Protects the Rights of  T erminally Ill Patients
QUICK TAKESA WEEK AGO, GOV. JERRY BROWN SIGNED THE END OF LIFE ACT INTO LAW. WITH THIS BILL PASSING, CALIFORNIA IS 
THE FIFTH STATE TO ALLOW TERMINALLY ILL PATIENTS THE OPTION TO CHOOSE PHYSICIAN-ASSISTED DEATH.
While death is not typically planned out, having the choice between a 
slow, painful death and a relatively short, painless death is an option most 
people would certainly not mind having. Ideally, the manner in which 
an individual dies should be a choice made by the individual, if she is 
capable of rationally making that choice. California’s End of Life Option 
Act allows terminally ill patients to decide how they will die and allows 
them to receive assistance from a medical professional to do so. The law 
gives patients more control over their deaths, but at the same time, it may 
encourage them to end their lives prematurely. 
The law explicitly prohibits physicians from administering the lethal 
doses and requires patients to be the final participants in the process. 
Patients may ultimately change their minds, but in cases where the 
physician administers the final dose, it would be difficult to monitor 
whether or not patients’ final wishes were ultimately adhered to. 
University of Pittsburgh bioethicist Alan Meisel described how, regardless 
of the law, physicians can legally assist dying patients by denying them 
water, for example. However, once patients begin requesting water, 
it is unclear if they want to end the procedure or are simply making 
delirious appeals.
Although scientific research does not support the notion that a 
positive attitude lengthens a cancer patient’s life, the American Cancer 
Society recognizes that emotional support and mental healthcare can 
improve how cancer patients manage the disease. Patients who are told 
they have a limited amount of time to live may prematurely give up 
on life altogether, rather than focus on other options for quality-of-life 
improvement. In particular, vulnerable populations such as low-income 
and elderly patients may be directly or indirectly encouraged to forgo 
other options in order to save their families expensive medical bills.
Patients have an ample amount of time and multiple opportunities to 
reconsider their decisions before a doctor prescribes them the sedatives. 
Y et these requirements do not ensure that physicians are behaving 
ethically. The government should not interfere with an individual’s 
rational choices regarding their own lives and personal health. 
Nonetheless, it is the responsibility of legislators to be cautious and to 
safeguard against potential abuses when enacting laws.
—  TINA BUTOIU
Senior Staff WriterThe Legislation Regarding This Bill May Impose 
Patients with Unfortunate Pressure to Opt Out of  LifeLast Wednesday, it was impossible to step foot on campus without 
seeing droves of women dressed in shiny tank tops with Greek letters 
and clustered together in front of the Triton Statue by Price Center. 
While the new members were anxiously accepting their recruitment bids, 
some of these ladies had bags of exhaustion under their eyes from completing 
the time-intensive recruitment process. Most of UCSD is oblivious to the 
Greek community, only pausing occasionally to ponder its strange existence. 
Let’s stop for a moment and ask ourselves: Why is Greek life still a thing?
All the way back on Dec. 5, 1776, the first Greek letter organization 
was founded, according to San Jose State’s website about the history of 
fraternities and sororities. Secret societies preceded this club, but it was the 
first to include the iconic Greek symbols. This fraternity marketed itself as a 
club that was “encouraging students to think for themselves, ” according to 
Rehoboth Journal. So there you have it: Greek Life was created to encourage 
critical thinking skills, but it remains questionable whether they achieved this 
ambitious goal.
Sororities appeared about a century after fraternities in 1867. During 
the Civil W ar, a lot of colleges were shut down, and according to Rehoboth 
Journal, many fraternity brothers were actually forced to battle against each 
other. The reworking of higher education after this intense conflict created an 
opportunity for sororities to establish themselves, despite having to contend with “restrictive social customs, unequal status under the law and the 
underlying presumption that they were less able than men, ” as quoted by the 
Rehoboth Journal.
Women successfully fought for the creation of sororities, and this 
certainly sounds empowering — but is it really? While the Greek system may 
present itself as a powerhouse of critical thinking and community support, 
let’s examine the actual values encouraged by the Greek system.
One important problem is its tendency to organize groups of people 
into a status hierarchy. Sites like GreekRank.com allow students to look 
up sororities and fraternities and rank them as “top tier” or “lower tier. ” 
These rankings are often accompanied with comments on the members’ 
looks. In our increasingly superficial society this is not a problem the 
Greek community has to face alone, as even professors experience this on 
RateMyProfessors.com, but the Greek community exemplifies this issue to a 
new extreme. This is especially the case for sorority members and recruits.
Nothing about the recruitment process is natural or encourages young 
and impressionable women to value themselves. The emphasis is on 
appearance and uniformity, as each sorority picks specific guidelines for its 
dress code. The desire to make something of oneself and garner the approval 
of peer groups often overcomes these ladies with stress.
Although grades, philanthropy and other forms of academic achievement 
See GREEK LIFE, page 5
Last week, the Greek community handed 
out bids by the Triton Statue, while other 
students questioned their existence.
B Y cassia  pollock  Opinion EditorOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 12, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
are emphasized in the presentation of 
an informational powerpoint at the 
beginning of the recruitment process, 
the meaning of these words is proven 
to run only skin-deep in the Greek 
community. Potential recruits spend 
days parading around in specific 
outfits in hopes of gaining popularity 
and an invitation to come back.
The UCSD Greek community 
consists of three branches: the 
Interfraternity Council, the 
Multicultural Greek Council and the 
Panhellenic Council (for sororities). 
Each fraternity and sorority must 
submit to the rules designated by its 
Council members. The Multicultural Greek Council is a group of nine 
fraternities and nine sororities which 
align themselves with a specific racial 
and cultural inheritance. Their aim 
is to foster cultural diversity and 
understanding by dividing students 
into closed groups of certain 
races — which, of course, makes 
total sense. What better way could 
there be to encourage people to 
understand each other’s differences 
and bridge communication between 
distinct cultures than to form 
exclusive societies?
In the end, the Greek community 
is one big can of worms, and there’s 
no way to unravel every set of 
concerns that is created by its presence 
on campus. Sometimes it makes beneficial contributions, such as 
exciting social and charitable events. 
At other times, it is responsible for 
racist scandals such as the “Compton 
Cookout” five years ago, which 
involved a ghetto-themed frat party, as 
reported by ABC10 News. 
Many students, upon their 
enrollment at UCSD, are immediately 
fearful of the college’s reputation for 
being socially dead. Often the Greek 
community exists as an alternative to 
spending weekends with Netflix and 
a gallon of ice cream. Each class of 
freshmen should be educated that this 
is, in fact, not the case. It is possible to 
have a life as an undergraduate student 
at UCSD — a fulfilling, unique life — 
without paying dues.
TEDI Tritions for Equity Di versity and Inclusion
Consciousne ss of the world a round us is an i nvaluable skill for what ever 
career we pu rsue. The goals of TEDI a re to d evelop student s' critical 
consciousne ss of social justice and equi ty minded leade rship, and to build 
a net work of inclusi ve, equi ty minded s tudent leade rs on campus. The 
program consists of a retreat, with four foll ow-up p rograms, workshops, 
or events selected by the pa rticipant to supplement learning. TEDI is 
co-p resented by UCSD A ssociated Students and the Center for Student 
Involvement, and is open to all UCSD s tudents.
REGI STER N OW for TEDI,
go to http:/ /ccl.ucsd .edu/regist ration/
Question s? Email us at ucsdtedi@gmail .comSatu rday, November 14 • 9:30am-3:30pm
Governance Chambe rs, PC Eas t, level 4TRITON
PANTRYFOOD
location: Original Student Center
email: foodpantry@ucsd.edu
phone: (858) 534-5694The mission of the Triton Food Pantry is to provide a discreet 
service to UCSD students in need of food. Our goals are to 
ensure that every student has enough energy to get through 
the day and that no student needs to give up a single meal 
for any reason. We aim to build a network of resources and 
awareness about food insecurity.
Hours subject to change in future quarters.Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri
9am–1pm 3pm–6pm 3pm–6pm 9am–1pm 9am–1pmFall Quarter Hours:WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
Greek Life Seduces Students Afraid of  a Socially Dead College Experience
▶ GREEK LIFE,  from page 4SEND YOUR 
LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGGOT ISSUES?6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 12, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
ALLISON  KUBO
features@ucsdguardian.org
by Allison Kubo//Features Editor
Illustraiton by Christina Carlson  photo courtesy of USGS
California is breaking. Not in to large gaping holes and crevices in the 
ground. No, this is less dramatic and much more dangerous. The 
Golden State is sliding and grinding against the North American 
tectonic plate. When large sections of a fault suddenly slip past one another 
and release waves of energy, we call it an earthquake and then post about it 
on Facebook. At this moment in fault lines all over the state, energy is being 
stored up for what people call “the Big One. ” 
In many scenarios, things might fall off the walls here in San Diego, and 
glasses might break, but in the Los Angeles area it is estimated that one in 
16 buildings will sustain serious damage. The Great California ShakeOut 
Scenario, which is based off the work of more than 300 seismologists, 
estimates a 7.8 magnitude quake, enough to cause nearly 2,000 deaths and 
50,000 injuries, not to mention $200 billion in damages. Although San Diego 
may not experience a significant amount of damage, the quake would likely 
cut off water, electricity and telecommunications. 
Part of being Californian is understanding that there will be big quake in our 
lifetime. Dr. Peter Shearer, Associate Dean at Scripps Institution of Oceanography, 
knows this better than most and has spent his career studying seismicity. 
“Realistically, there is more seismic hazard in the LA area, but I wouldn’t 
want people here to relax and think that they don’t need to worry about 
it, ” Shearer said. “Even though we have a lower probability, the next big 
earthquake could be here. It’s just random chance. ”
Dr. Shearer eagerly pulled out a detailed fault map of California to illustrate 
his point. It shows that the San Diego area is nestled between red lines of seismic 
hazard, although most people in San Diego live less than 15 miles from a fault. 
The San Andreas Fault is over 100 miles from San Diego County, but another 
fault that runs along Interstate 5 and under the Costco on Morena Boulevard 
threatens the area. The Rose Canyon Fault, dormant for over 200 years, runs 
under the city and off into the ocean for an unknown length. To the east, the 
San Jacinto Fault, an arm of the San Andreas Fault, could also be problematic. 
“Rose Canyon is our local fault — that’s the fault that could cause the 
strongest ground-shaking in San Diego, ” Shearer told the UCSD Guardian. 
“When you look at the seismic hazard maps of California, there is a much 
larger probability of large quakes on the San Jacinto than there is on the Rose 
Canyon Fault. But that’s not to say that there couldn’t be a substantial quake 
on the Rose Canyon Fault. ” 
Much like forecasting the weather, predicting earthquakes is far from exact and 
depends on a range of complicated factors, such as slip rate, recent quakes, length 
of a fault and locality. According to the Uniform California Earthquake Rupture 
Forecast, the probability of a magnitude 6.7 or above in the southern section of the 
San Andreas Fault is 59 percent in the next 30 years. A 6.7 magnitude in the San 
Jacinto fault only has a 30 percent chance of occurring in 30 years. The fault will 
definitely rupture —  now it’s just a waiting game. Fault Facts
San Andreas is a 
700 MILE LONG
right lateral 
transform fault
WITH A SLIP RATE OF 
2.5 IN /YEAR
It is the plate boundary  
between the North American 
and Pacific Plates.
Parkﬁeld, CA - located a 
quarter of a mile from 
the fault, contains more 
seismometers than anywhere 
else in the world. 
DESIGN BY ALLISON KUBO
See QUAKE , page 6Whether the ground is shaking or not, campuswide preparation though drills 
such as the Great California ShakeOut is more than necessary — it’s life saving.FEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 12, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
Educating Tomorrow’s 
Health Care Leaders
at Boston’s Leading Health  
Professions Graduate  
School
www.mghihp.eduBOSTON, MASSACHUSETTSPrograms in:
Nursing
Occupational Therapy
Physical Therapy
Physician Assistant Studies
Speech-Language Pathology
Also, Science Prerequisite 
Courses
Visit our booth  
and learn more:
Graduate & Professional 
School Fair
North Love Library Terrace
Thursday, October 15
10:00 a.m. – 2:30 p.m.
BEAR 
GARDEN BEAR 
GARDEN 
FREE FOR ALL UCSD UNDERGRADS
OCT 16, 3-6PM, MATTHEWS QUAD
ALL AGES WELCOME
2,""#*,)&"$*/)!",$,!-./!").-1&.%0'&!-./!").
2+'"-",&)$0'&!$*0",)(").&)!!&.&*).*-./!").
2*,(*,"&)#*,(.&*)+'"-" *). ..0+ *) ",.-
/ -!"!/
KETTLE
MASTER
KETTLE KORNDOGGOS
GUSCHURROS
EL TIGREDELICIOSO
TACOSDr. Debi Kilb, head of public 
outreach and education program SIO 
Games, explained to the Guardian 
that although predictions are very 
uncertain, early warning systems 
offer a life-saving alternative.
“When there is an earthquake, 
there are two different waves that 
go out — first the P-waves and the 
S-waves and then the damaging 
surface waves, ” Kilb explained. “So 
what’s going on is that we are trying 
to detect the arrival of the P-wave at 
our seismic stations and figure out if 
a big earthquake is coming, and then 
send an alert to the city before the 
damaging surface waves arrive. ”
Depending on the location of 
the quake, this system could warn 
residents between 10 seconds to a 
minute before the quake happens. 
Not only could this provide time 
to duck and cover but it could 
automatically shut off utilities to save 
both lives and infrastructure. It did 
just that in August 2014 when the 
seismic sensors provided ten seconds 
of warning to test users in Napa.
After the kinks are ironed out, this 
system would cost $32 million to 
implement and another $16 million 
for each year of operation.
However, even with this warning 
system, Dr. Klib emphasized that 
preparation and earthquake safety 
practice are key. SIO Games, which 
produces educational games for 
mobile devices, aims to help children 
understand seismic hazards. 
“The more informed you are, the 
better, ” Klib said. “Practice ‘duck, 
cover, and hold-on’ and participate in 
the ShakeOut. Always assume today 
is going to be the day. ” 
This is also the policy of UCSD 
Manager of Emergency Services Dismas Abelman. Abelman told 
the Guardian that without precise 
quake predictions, we must always 
be prepared.
“The biggest challenge we face 
is the perception that ‘it’s not going 
to happen to me, ’” he said. “ After an 
emergency, people become aware and 
become prepared. After a year passes, 
they get back into the mindset. 
[Regardless of the circumstances], 
have a plan and take steps to be a 
bit more prepared than you were 
yesterday. ”
Abelman advised all members 
of the community to put together 
a kit with basic necessities such as 
food, water, warm clothing, sturdy 
shoes and first aid supplies. He 
also emphasized knowledge of the 
evacuation routes. 
Dorms generally have only one 
emergency drill per year. Each 
department has a separate evacuation 
and emergency protocol managed by 
a Department Safety Coordinator. 
In an emergency, the campus 
would be separated into 13 different 
Emergency Response Zones. 
Students and faculty work and live 
in over 640 departments spread 
over 770 buildings, over 30 of 
which contain hazardous materials. 
However, despite the hard work 
of Emergency Services, students 
and faculty are largely unaware of 
protocol besides “Duck, Cover, and 
Hold-on. ” In a stressful situation, 
even a small amount of confusion 
over proper evacuation could cause 
chaos and make it more difficult for 
emergency responders. 
Participating in a drill such as the 
Great California ShakeOut, which is 
scheduled for Oct. 15 at 10:15 a.m., 
is vital to increasing preparedness, 
not only for earthquakes but also for other emergency situations. 
“The way to prepare for an 
earthquake is the same way you 
prepare for an wildfire or a hurricane 
or a tornado, ” Abelman said. “Get a kit 
and have everything together in one 
place and know where you are going 
to go. People are focused on wildfires 
and the upcoming El Niño event, but 
really you don’t prepare for an specific 
event — you just get prepared. ”
This Thursday, over 10 million 
people will participate in emergency 
drills ranging from a simple duck, cover, and hold-on to full-scale 
evacuation drills. One of the main 
goals of the drill is to create a 
personal-preparedness plan that 
specifies where you would meet and 
how you would contact your friends 
and family. After studying previous 
disasters such as Hurricane Katrina, 
the Great ShakeOut aims to educate 
people about the “Text First. Talk 
Second. ” campaign. The campaign 
advises people to send short texts 
to their family and friends to avoid 
overloading cellular networks. Dr. Shearer told the Guardian that 
we can mitigate some hazards with 
better preparation. He also offered 
advice and solace to Californians over 
our seismic troubles.
“We have earthquakes in 
California, but that’s also part of what 
makes it such a beautiful state with the 
mountains, ” Shearer said. “Y ou don’t 
get the kind of topography that we have 
without the tectonics to go along. ”
Earthquake hazards are Lower in San Diego but There Are Large Faults in the Surrounding Area
PHOTO COURTESY OF USGS
Allison   Kubo   akubo@ucsd.edu readers can contact▶ QUAKE,  from page 68 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 12, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
DISCOVER A 
GENEROUS  
SCHOLARS HIP 
PROGRAM.
©
2
0
1
4
. 
P
aid 
f
or 
b
y the Un
i
t
ed 
S
t
a
t
e
s Ar
m
y
. 
y
. 
y
Al
l
 rig
h
t
s
r
es
er
v
ed
.
The U.S. Army’s Health P rofessions Schola rship 
Program (HPSP) offers qualiﬁed med ical, de ntal 
and veterinary students full tuition for a g radua te-
level deg ree at the school of your choi ce. You’ll 
receive a mo nthly stipend and payment for boo ks, 
equipme nt and a cademic fees, as well as th e 
potential to grow as a l eader.
To learn more, visit
healthcare.goarmy.com/z130
LASER TAG!
PLAY THE GAME THAT  
WILL CHANGE YOUR LIFE...
•  Group Events  
– Fraternity  
– Sorority 
– Student Orgs
•  Huge Party Area  
to 150+ Guests
•  Thursday Night = 
“College Night”  
3rd Game Free
3146 Sports Arena Blvd.  •  San Diego, CA 92110  •  619.221.0100  
www.ultrazonesandiego.com
•  Late Night at the ZONE —  
Midnight to 2am Fri & SatTwo ERC Students Launch Unique Surf Apparel Brand
PHOTOS USED WITH PERMISSION FROM ELLIOT SHAW
One image in Seager Company’s 
promotional video is of a surfer 
casually but expertly riding the waves, 
and the next image is of a few guys 
chasing after some cattle on a ranch 
in good fun. This combination of land 
and sea inspired Mattson Smith and 
Elliott Shaw, both Eleanor Roosevelt 
College seniors, to launch the apparel 
brand Seager Co. Alongside Smith 
and Shaw, Case Anderson, a Cal State 
Fullerton undergraduate, and Calvin 
Muusse created Seager Co. this past 
June. 
Smith and Shaw loved the Wild 
West culture since they were young, 
and are devoted to the sea and surfing. 
As undergraduates, they had already 
decided on working for the surf 
industry, but upon looking around, 
never found anything they wanted — 
so they decided to start a brand that 
encompassed the two aesthetics. 
“I’ve always been, and [Mattson] 
as well, inspired by the Old West, ” 
Shaw told the UCSD Guardian. “Our 
grandparents kind of pushed it on us 
… I grew up wearing an old cowboy 
hat and boots, watching old Western 
movies, and we were always attached 
to Johnny Cash and that whole 
culture. But it was always in our own 
personal lives; we didn’t really push 
it. And we always loved the beach 
and surfing. We both realized how 
passionate we were for it, and then we 
just built a team. It was like at every 
step, [we thought], ‘ All right what’s the 
next thing we can do?’”
As a result, Seager Co. ’s theme 
is ‘unrefined Western grit, ’ a phrase 
that concisely but appropriately 
describes Shaw and Smith’s vision for 
their brand. They aim to represent 
the American West as authentically 
as possible; their simple design 
coupled with the product’s durability 
is supposed to symbolize the rugged 
lifestyle of the West. 
“I think what we mean by 
‘unrefined’ is exactly what it is, ” Smith 
said “We don’t want to be seen as 
a polished brand. We kind of just 
wanted to be everyday, workman kind 
of attire. ”  
These two entrepreneurs created 
Seager Co. because of their desire for 
a fusion of two visuals that had never 
been realized before
“Every time I think about our 
brand, I think of a funny idea: a surfer 
or skater wearing a cowboy hat, ” 
Smith said with a smile. “That’s just 
not something that anyone has seen 
before. I think we’re unique in that 
regard. It’s a niche that hasn’t been 
touched, and I feel like we’re making 
a new style, and if it catches on, it 
catches on — if it doesn’t, I guess we’re 
goofy. ”
Smith and Shaw first committed themselves to making this idea a 
reality in March 2013. After two long 
years of brainstorming, planning and 
researching, they and their two other 
friends finally launched the Seager Co. 
website in June 2015.
Although it is still quite a new 
company, when Seager Co. evolves 
into a more popular and profitable 
brand, Shaw and Smith plan on using 
their company as a platform for 
philanthropy. Befitting their company 
image, they intend to start by bringing 
more awareness to underprivileged 
Native American communities and 
become involved with the Wounded 
W arrior Project, an organization 
that gives aid to American service 
members who were injured.
“That would be success for us, if 
we were big enough to [the point] 
where we can host events, ” Shaw said. 
”It doesn’t have to be ‘here’s a million 
dollars; here’s a bunch of money’ to an 
organization, but just hosting events. 
I think that whole Western culture, 
and pretty much everything inland 
from the coast, is underappreciated. 
We both [think that]. That’s why we 
like it so much and we want to bring 
awareness to that whole situation.
Since their launch, Seager Co. 
expanded their products to Thalia Surf 
Shop, a small store with valuable floor 
space and rated as one of the top five 
surf shops in the world according to 
GQ Magazine. Shaw told the Guardian 
that it was not only his personal 
connections but also the marketability 
of their brand that Nick Cocores, the 
owner of Thalia Surf Shop, saw in 
Seager Co. and the individuals behind 
it.
“[Nick] knew that there wasn’t 
anything like [Seager Co.], and 
that’s what he prides himself on, ” 
Shaw said. “[Thalia Surf Shop] has 
unique products that no one else 
has, and I think that excited him 
a lot. He didn’t have anything like 
[Seager Co.] and saw potential in it 
and us, really, which was great. ” 
Currently, Seager Co. sells 
seven different shirt designs and a 
low-profile cap. Smith and Shaw do plan on developing their modest 
clothing line to include not only 
outerwear but also more diverse 
merchandise, such as camping 
equipment. Although it will be 
costly to consistently produce high 
quality products, they plan on 
staying true to what they stand for.
“We want it to be workwear for 
the common man, but we want it to 
be as high quality as possible, ” Shaw 
said. “We want it to be durable 
and long-lasting. It’s a matter of 
designing something that we think 
is creative and unique but stays true 
to conservative Western culture. ”
As for personal goals, Smith 
and Shaw want to make enough 
to be able to live off of Seager Co., 
but money-making is not their end 
goal. Their version of success is 
based on how many people they can 
captivate with their unique vision.
“A s  a  b r a n d ,  [ o u r  l o n g -
term goal] would be to expand 
internationally and really open up 
a market to people who haven’t had 
this thought: that surf and skate can 
be mixed with old western culture, ” 
Smith said. “Starting a new trend 
of how people dress would be a big 
goal for us. ”
Although Seager Co. has 
established its foundation only 
in Thalia Surf Shop and The Old 
Well, another unique shop, it is also 
looking outward to broaden their 
scope of influence. 
“That’s how we’re starting: We’re 
getting into core surf shops and 
trying to really capture our friends 
and the whole local surf culture, 
which in itself is a pretty big stepping 
stone, ” Shaw said. “Our end goal 
would be to be a huge company 
in the surf industry as well as the 
outdoor industry. When it comes 
down to it, it’s not about being the 
richest, biggest company. I just want 
to live off of it. I want a little house by 
the beach, with a ranch. That’s really 
it. I think we can do some real good 
with [Seager Co.]. ”
By   S o o   Y u n   Pa r k
sEnior Staff writer
Soo Yun  P ark   syp009@ucsd.edu readers can contacTCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 12, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
NEIL YOUNG W/ JENNY LEWISTUE, 10.13 • 7:30pm TahrirCAMPUS
CALENDAR
OCT 12 - OCT 182015 POWERED BY THE CHANCELLOR’S OFFICE AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guardian
Calenda r
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdg uardian.orgWED 10.14 TUE 10.13
VOLUNTEER FOR FAMILY WEEKEND- UC SAN 
DIEGO
The 8th Annual UC San Diego Family Weekend is 
quickly approaching! We are reaching out to 
volunteers to make Family Weekend 2015 truly 
unforgettable! Volunteers are needed 
Friday-Saturday, October 16-18. If you are 
interested in being part of this tradition, please 
submit your availability and preferences by 
Wednesday, October 14. Sign-up through our 
volunteer portal at the website below. We thank you 
for your time and dedication in making this weekend 
a success! If you have any questions please feel 
free to contact us.
5pm
GLOBAL SEMINAR INFO SESSION: REVELLE IN 
ROME - REVELLE FORMAL LOUNGE
Come meet Professor Stephanie Jed who is leading 
this study abroad program during summer 2016, 
find out about the courses, academic excursions, 
funding options, and how to apply. Contact: 
globalseminar@ucsd.edu 858-534-1123
7:15pm
TRITONART WORKSHOP - VISUAL ART 
FACULTY
Come join us at TritonArt's first general body 
meeting of the 2015-2016 academic school year! 
Come meet other students interested in art and art 
making and hear about the exciting new 
opportunities coming this quarter. Immediately after 
the GBM, take part in the Zine Workshop with MFA 
student, Michael Ano. Contact: 
ucsdtritonart@gmail.com
FRI10.16
REGISTER FOR FAMILY WEEKEND - UC SAN 
DIEGO
Family Weekend is a campus-wide tradition inviting all 
students to invite their family back to campus to 
experience life at UC San Diego! Signature events of 
the weekend include Climb Time & the Challenge 
Course, Comedy Night, Zumba, College Connections, 
Exclusive San Diego Zoo Event, and a Farwell Brunch. 
Special giveaways and= sessions for all 
undergraduate students are included. 
REGISTRATION IS NOW OPEN!
1pm
UNIQUE FEATURES OF HUMAN SKIN - SALK 
INSTITUTE, CONRAD T. PREBYS AUDITORIUM
Skin is the major interface between the human body 
and its environment, providing protection and 
supporting vitamin photosynthesis, thermoregulation, 
communication, and other complex functions. "Unique 
Features of Human Skin," a free symposium presented 
by CARTA, will explore the evolution of this important 
organ and the origins of human nakedness, 
pigmentation, mammary glands, and the dermal 
microbiome.
6pm
GAME NIGHT - VILLAGE WEST ROOM 15A, 15TH 
FLOOR
Join us for an evening filled with friends, fun, and free 
food. This will be a great opportunity to meet new and 
returning students who are part of our community, and 
learn about the resources available to support 
students. There will be a variety of games to play and 
even some prizes! Everyone is welcome. Bring a 
friend! RSVPs to undoc@ucsd.edu are appreciated but 
not required.SUN 10.18
10am
GARDEN HOURS - BEHIND LA JOLLA DANCING 
BUILDING AND CHE CAFE
Interested in growing your own food? Want to work 
toward a climate resilient future? Well come to RCG 
behind the CHE Cafe and the Dance Building in Revelle 
to learn about our agricultural system, integrated 
agriculture and much more!  Open to any major or 
student. Plot rentals open to all who want to grow their 
own food.  We are a Student Run garden that believes 
in sustainability. Join us every Saturday and/or Sunday 
rain or shine.11am
COMMUNITY SERVICE ORG FAIR - PC EAST 
BALLROOM
Curious about how to get involved in giving back? 
There are tons of ways and resources to help you find 
your place in the world of service at UC San Diego, 
but with 90+ different service-oriented organizations 
to choose from, it can be difficult to see them all. 
Luckily, the Center for Student Involvement and Circle 
K International at UCSD are bringing them to you! Join 
us Tuesday, October 13th in PC Ballroom East for the 
2015 Community Service Student Org Fair! Service 
orgs with an array of causes and opportunities will be 
presenting how and why you should volunteer. So 
come get involved with service! Contact Erica Kao at 
pr@ucsdcki.org or Cat Lettieri at clettieri@ucsd.edu 
with any questions.
4:15pm
YOGA ON THE BEACH - REVELLE FOUNTAIN 
Do you like YOGA? Do you need another excuse to go 
to the beach in this beautiful weather? Come to 
UCSD's MBN Yoga on the Beach event! This quarter, 
our yoga session will be led by Tyler Wishard. The 
event will be on Tuesday, October 13th, and we will be 
meeting at 4:15 pm in Revelle Fountain. Come to 
practice your poses, meet new friends, and relax as 
your three-day weekend begins!! EVERYONE is 
welcome, and no experience is necessary. Hope to 
see you there! *REMEMBER TO BRING: a beach towel, 
water, and a light jacket, in case it gets chilly!
7:30pm
NEIL YOUNG W/ JENNY LEWIS @ RIMAC ARENA 
- RIMAC ARENA
Neil Young + Promise of the Real have confirmed a 
second leg of the Rebel Content Tour which will make 
a stop at RIMAC Arena on October 13. They are 
bringing Jenny Lewis along for a night of music like 
none else. A very limited number of highly discounted 
tickets are available to UCSD students only through 
the UCSD box office.  You must login with your single 
sign-on at ucsdboxoffice.com/Students to see this 
special discounted price. Buy yours now or risk 
missing out on a moment of musical history!
THU 10.15
3pm
PASSPORT TO CULTURE: JAPAN - 
INTERNATIONAL HOUSE-CUZCO LOUNGE
Earn your passport and "travel to Japan"!
Learn about life and culture from current students 
who have lived and studied in various regions of 
the world. Enjoy a traditional taste of food from the 
highlighted region each week! 
Week 3 "Passport to Culture" will highlight Japan!
6:30pm
UCSD PRE-DENTAL SOCIETY PRESENTS 
CONGRESSMAN JUAN VARGAS - UCSD 
SKAGGS SCHOOL OR PHARMACY 
AUDITORIUM
The UCSD Pre-Dental Society presents an evening 
with Congressman Juan Vargas. All students are 
welcome to attend our general body meeting 
where Congressman Juan Vargas will be 
discussing relevant issues regarding healthcare, 
student loans, and what's happening in Washington 
D.C. Join us on Thursday, October 15th at 6:30pm 
at the UCSD Skaggs School of Pharmacy 
Auditorium. Please visit us at 
http://fdc-pds.ucsd.edu/ for more information. See 
you there!MON 10.12
8am
PROMOTES STUDENT RIGHTS ON THE UCSD 
CAMPUS! - PC WEST, 4TH FLOOR
Are you interested in promoting and protecting the 
rights of students on the UCSD campus? If so, join 
the Office of Student Advocacy- we assist students 
as they proceed through both nonacademic and 
academic integrity cases. Send an email to as 
advocacy@ucsd.edu for more information!
5pm
GLOBAL FORUM SPEAKER SERIES - THE GREAT 
HALL AT I-HOUSE
This year's Global Forum events cohere around the 
thematic of global citizenship. In thinking about 
global citizenship, we begin the fall quarter with a 
set of questions: How does one become a global 
citizen? How do different stakeholders in different 
geopolitical, cultural, and social milieus understand 
and operationalize the idea of 'global citizenship? 
Finally, what does global citizenship look like in 
terms of actions?  We hope each of this quarter's 
events help our audiences approach these questions 
with new insights. While we are not looking to 
assemble a selection of 'correct' answers, we are 
interested in complementing and complicating the 
ways UCSD and San Diego communities answer 
these questions, and we hope our speakers keep 
them in mind while preparing their remarks.
5pm
GLOBAL SEMINARS INFO SESSION: 
MATHEMATICAL BEAUTY IN ROME - 
INTERNATIONAL CENTER, OCEANIDS PAVILION
Come meet Professor Joe Pasquale who is leading 
this study abroad program during summer 2016, 
find out about the courses, academic excursions, 
funding options, and how to apply. Contact: 
globalseminar@ucsd.edu 858-534-1123
5pm
GLOBAL SEMINARS INFO SESSION: 
EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND - INTERNATIONAL 
CENTER LOUNGE
Come meet Professor Michael Parrish who is leading 
this study abroad program during summer 2016, 
find out about the courses, academic excursions, 
funding options, and how to apply. Contact: 
globalseminar@ucsd.edu 858-534-1123SAT 10.17
10am
GARDEN HOURS - BEHIND LA JOLLA 
DANCING BUILDING AND CHE CAFE
Interested in growing your own food? Want to 
work toward a climate resilient future? Well come 
to RCG behind the CHE Cafe and the Dance 
Building in Revelle to learn about our agricultural 
system, integrated agriculture and much more! 
Open to any major or student. Plot rentals open to 
all who want to grow their own food.  We are a 
Student Run garden that believes in sustainability. 
Join us every Saturday and/or Sunday rain or 
shine.
5pm
UCSD NIGHT AT THE COURT: LAKERS VS. 
WARRIORS - VALLEY VIEW CASINO CENTER
magine: Mission Bay, calm as glass, paddle drips 
break the reflections of the moon and city lights 
above the bay. This is a San Diego experience not 
to be missed. After a quick drive to the bay we will 
have a short skills session, launch for the sunset 
and enjoy the moonlit paddle.  No experience 
required.RIMAC ARENA • LIMITED TICKETS AT BOX OFFICE
tritonfest.ucsd.edu
       ucsdtritonfest
WK 3
Triton Fest Event CalendarCOMEDYWEEKEND
COMEDY FEST 1
FRi., OCT. 16 • 8PM
PC WEST BALLROOM
Our Comedy Fest is back 
and funnier than ever, 
featuring a partnership with 
Family Weekend! Bringing 
you shows at 8pm and 
10:30pm to laugh the night 
away.  COMEDY FEST 2
SAT., OCT. 17 • 8PM
PC WEST BALLROOM
Because one night of fun 
and laughter isn’t enough, 
Comedy Fest continues with 
two more shows - at 8pm 
and 10:30pm - featuring 
four exciting new acts! 10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 12, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDS$
Gua rdian Classifieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedscrossword
Across
 1 Part of FDIC
 5 Green region
 15 Declare as fact
 16 Hidden
 17 Masculine
 18 Like an asocial person
 19 Seasons in Burgundy
 20 “__ Girl Friday”
 21 Just manages
 22 Acts as the go-between
 24 Municipal vehicle
 27 Golfer Ernie
 28 Acted high and mighty
 29 Middling
 30 Susan of “L.A. Law”
 31 Outer opposite
 32 Barkin and Degeneres
 34 Part of AARP
 35 Annoying fits
 36 Killer: suff.
 40 L’chaim and prosit
 42 Chick of jazz
 43 Fink
 46 Added advantage
 47 Letter flourishes
 48 Old English letter
 49 Three-way intersection
 50 Thoroughwort
 51 Jaunty
 53 Opposing side
 54 Eliz. II’s son
 55 Estrangement
 59 Wine region of Italy
 60 Fad toy of the ‘50s
 61 Walter __ Army Medical Center
 62 Singled-out condition
 63 Miami’s countyDown
 1 Showy roselike flower
 2 Rounds of applause
 3 Gets back old skills
 4 Chief executive
 5 Hurried
 6 Cons
 7 Cantor and Lupino
 8 One of Bonaparte’s marshals
 9 __ Angelico
 10 Halloween mo.
 11 Architect Mies van der __
 12 Drew forth
 13 Handel opera
 14 Having luxuriant locks
 23 Sun. oration
 24 Charges off
 25 Plays for a sucker
 26 Male heir
 29 Narrow cuts
 32 Come to pass
 33 Golfer’s record
 35 Mall event
 37 Location of the Isle of Man
 38 Thwarted
 39 Section of Manhattan
 41 Choose (to)
 42 100 yrs.
 43 Go by again
 44 __ Coast
 45 Tickle pink
 47 Bono and Liston
 50 Kicks
 52 Phone opener?
 53 Commend for meritorious action
 56 LIRR destination
 57 Appropriate
 58 Wine caskBIKES
2011 Bontrager Racer Pro Saddle - $40. In 
very good condition. Came off a 2010 Trek 
Fuel EX 9.9. New it cost $125. Very small 
scratches on the back of the saddle when I 
turned over my bike. Listing ID: 194602548 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Vintage Dyno Scooter - $40. Moving sale. 
Daughter’s Dyno scooter. In pretty decent 
shape for its age. Daughter has outgrown 
it so it’s time for a new home. Listing ID: 
194602546 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Foes For Sale - $1600. Up for sale: Foes 
Large XTR. Fox shock talas, new brakes and 
chain tuned up every 6 months. Listing ID: 
194602542 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more informationELECTRONICS
Beats Solo HD - $80. White Beats Solo HD 
headphones. Listing ID: 194602601 at ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
Samsung Galaxy Note 5 - $400. Brand new. 
Still in box. Sprint Samsung Galaxy Note 5. 
32 gigabytes. Listing ID: 194602598 at ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
Fujifilm Instax Mini 7s White Instant Film 
Camera - $40. Barely used; doesn’t come 
with film or batteries. Listing ID: 194602595 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
informationFURNITURE
Kitchen Table and Chairs - $300. I have a 
great table (5’x3’) and 6 chairs. Listing ID: 
194602608 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Mid Century Modern Dresser - $249. MCM 
low 6 drawer dresser with mirror. In excel -
lent vintage condition. Walnut veneer and 
nice clean lines. Well constructed draw -
ers work great. Mirror is nice and shiny 
with no dark spots. Listing ID: 194602606 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Pillowtop Queen Mattress - $450. Selling 
my mattress. Moving and won’t be able 
to take with me. Had it for a little over a 
year. Has a few stains but other than that 
it’s very comfortable. Listing ID: 193696989 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
t
your vision,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel to 
promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!www.ucsdguardian.org/advertisingwhat do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972GET INVOLVED!
Join the Associated Students
For mo re info, visit as.ucsd .edu
as.ucsd.edu
asucsd asucsdFirst Year & Transfer Senator
Applications Now Open
& much more... 
SOFTRESERVES
An A.S. enterprise that  enables professors to disseminate various course mat erials to their students.  These include course reade rs, lab manuals, class notes, sample exams, homework solutions, etc.
 
858-534-6256ONLINE SERVICE!
Pre-order your reader online at:
and pick it up at the Student Center softreserves.ucsd.edu
Located on Level 1 at the Student CenterHOURS OFOPERATION
Mon-Fri:
9am-5pm
Extended hours
til 6pm
Occasional Sat:
10am-2pmassoftreser ves@ucsd.eduSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 12, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
found the back of the cage on a 
5-meter penalty shot with 53 seconds 
remaining, giving his team a one-
point advantage. The Tritons then 
pulled to a 6–3 lead early in the 
second frame; however, the Spartans 
battled back to narrow their deficit 
back to one at the half.
UCSD held a 10–7 advantage in 
the third, but San Jose State’s John 
Moon hit the target to close the 
quarter at 10–8. The Spartans then 
outscored the Tritons 3–1 in the last 
period of regulation to equalize and 
send the teams into overtime.
Cockerill led the battle in 
overtime, scoring two goals to push 
his team ahead. Senior utility Jacob 
Castro added one more to set the 
score at 14–11. UCSD then dug in 
and held the San Jose State offense 
back, limiting the Spartans to just 
one goal with 1:17 remaining on the 
clock to claim the comeback win. 
Cockerill ended play with a game-
high six goals.
Game Three
The Air Force Falcons outworked 
the Tritons in the consolation match 
and took a crushing 10–5 victory. In the first quarter alone, the Falcons hit 
the target three times and held UCSD 
scoreless. Air Force would score two 
more in the second before the Tritons 
were finally able to break through. 
Senior two-meter Tyler Mancuso 
found the back of the cage with four 
minutes remaining in the period, 
closing the half at a 5–1 disadvantage. 
The Tritons narrowed their 
deficit to three after junior driver 
Andy Moore scored at the 4:34 mark. 
Air Force responded with another 
goal to widen the gap, but UCSD’s 
Hmeidan fired home a goal of his 
own to set the score at 3–6. But the 
Falcons scored twice more to end the 
frame at a massive 3–8 advantage. 
They drove the knife home in the 
fourth, scoring two and limiting the 
Tritons to two to take the win and 
advance in the bracket.
Game Four
UCSD played to win from buzzer 
to buzzer in their final game of the 
tournament against Santa Clara, 
taking a 13–8 victory to close 
out Sunday’s play. The Broncos 
first scored off of a power play by 
Julian Fraser; however, the Tritons’ 
Martinez responded with a power 
play of his own to level the score at 1–1. UCSD proceeded to outscore 
Santa Clara by a 3–1 margin to snag 
a 4–2 lead at the end of the frame.
The Tritons continued their 
run in the second, scoring four 
and limiting the Broncos to two 
to take a commanding four-point 
lead entering the half. They then 
dominated the pool again in the 
third period to increase their lead 
to five.
Santa Clara battled back early 
in the fourth, though, with Fraser 
notching another power play in the 
first 30 seconds of the frame, then 
scoring again at the 3:57 mark to 
close the gap to three. UCSD hit the 
target once at 2:52 and again less 
than a minute later to steal the win 
and end the day on a high note.
Cockerill led the Triton 
offense with four goals. Freshman 
goalkeeper Sam Thompson amassed 
11 saves over the course of the game.
UCSD will be back on the road 
this upcoming week when they go 
north to play Cal State Long Beach 
on Thursday, Oct. 15. freshman Karina Carstens (22:29.93) 
came in seventh and ninth, 
respectively. The No. 24 Tritons had 
their other scorers finish in 18th, 
19th and 20th place. Senior Marie 
Diaz (23:07.84), junior Ella Verhees 
(23:09.76) and sophomore Kristin 
Semancsin (23:19.62) rounded out 
UCSD’s top five. 
“It was a really good field and 
really good competition, especially on the women’s side today, ” 
Garcia told the UCSD Athletics 
Department. “It was a tight battle up 
front. I am pleased with the third-
place finish. ”
As a team, UCSD took third with 
73 points, narrowly missing out on 
second-place Biola University, who 
had 67 points. CCAA rival Cal State 
San Bernardino won the race with 
64 points. Again, an Azusa Pacific 
runner, freshman Eileen Stressling, 
won the race in 21:36.86.“The conference is better than 
ever, ” Garcia said. “But we’re confident 
business and get a good finish. ”
With the regular season now 
behind them, the Tritons are 
looking forward to the CCAA 
Championships at San Francisco 
State on Sunday, Oct. 25.
UCSD Is Up Against CSU Long Beach Next on October 15SF State Will Host the CCAA Championships on October 25
▶ M. WATER POLO,  from page 12▶ CROSS-COUNTRY ,  from page 12
readers can contact
marcus  thuillier   mthuilli@ucsd.edu 
readers can contact
ka tie   potts   kpotts@ucsd.edu 
FOLLOW US 
ON TWITTER
@UCSD_SportsSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
MARCUS  THUILLIER
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 12, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
week  in
summar y
In Saturday’s Triton 
Classic, the men’s cross-
country team took first.
In Saturday’s Triton 
Classic, the women’s 
cross-country team 
took third. 1 
3
MEN'S  W A TERPOLO
UCSD
UCSDUCSD
UCSD
UCSDCal ifornia Baptist
San Jose StateUCSB
          Air Force
     Santa Clara 13 - 11
14 - 128 - 12
5 - 10
13 - 8
WOMEN'S
VOLLEYBALL
18 14 12
22 25 25 25UCSD
UCSDCSU East Bay
SF State 25 25 25
25 23 14 21
UCSD hosted the 23rd annual 
Triton Classic on Saturday morning 
at UCSD’s North Campus Course. 
This race was the last one of the 
regular season for the Tritons, who 
will be on their way to San Francisco 
State for the California Collegiate 
Athletic Association Championships 
in two weeks. The Triton men came 
in first for the second straight year, 
and the women took third.
For the No. 25 Triton men, 
junior Brendan Gee finished first, 
coming in eighth and finishing the 
8-kilometer course in 26:44.30. 
UCSD’s pack running was effective 
again, with six runners finishing 
within 11 seconds of each other. 
Sophomore Wyler Svoboda 
(27:18.17) took 14th, sophomore 
Garrett Lepine (27:20.39) 16th, 
junior Terrence Luevano (27:21.50) 
17th, freshman Joseph Benrubi 
(27:24.10) 18th, senior Daniel Franz 
(27:28.40) 19th and freshman Aren 
Johnson (27:28.91) 21st. “He has taken a huge step 
forward this year, ” UCSD Head 
Coach Nate Garcia told the Athletics 
Department about Gee. “We are so 
pleased with the role he has taken 
not only in his running but also in 
his leadership in the team. He has 
really been showing that leadership 
here on the racecourse. ”
UCSD dominated the team 
race with 54 points. Azusa Pacific 
University finished second with 
73 points as their top runner 
sophomore Jeremy Porter won the 
race in 26:06.38. Loyola Marymount 
University was the final team on the 
podium with 83 points. 
“We have been running very 
well this year as a pack, ” Gee told 
the Athletics Department. “We’re 
looking to get anywhere from 
second to fourth [at the CCAA 
Championships]. ”
The women’s course was a 
6-kilometer race, in which senior 
Paige Hughes (22:26.07) and MEN'S  W A TERPOLO 
UCSD Struggles At SoCal Tournament
No. 15 Men’s Waterpolo wins just two out of their four games over the weekend.
The UCSD men’s water polo team 
traveled north this week for the Kap7 
NorCal Tournament, hosted by 
Pepperdine and Loyola Marymount 
University. The Tritons ended the 
weekend with mixed results: After 
dropping an 8–12 loss to UC Santa 
Barbara, they returned to the pool 
against San Jose State and took a 14–
12 overtime win to close Saturday’s 
play. Sunday’s games took a similar 
course: UCSD dropped a tough 5–10 
loss against Air Force to open play, 
then dominated against Santa Clara 
University and took a decisive 13–8 
victory. The Tritons now stand at 
9–9 on the season.
Game One
UCSD dropped the first game of 
the tourney against No. 6 UC Santa 
Barbara in a 12–8 decision. Senior 
utility Chase Cockerill slammed the 
first goal into the cage for the Tritons 
after only 40 seconds of play, but the 
Gauchos responded with four goals 
of their own to take command of the game. Cockerill was able to find the 
back of the cage one more time in the 
last nine seconds of the frame to cut 
the deficit to two.
UCSB pushed their advantage to 
three early in the second quarter; 
however, junior utility Nassim 
Hmeidan was able to smash home 
a 5-meter penalty shot to narrow 
the gap back down. After one more 
Gaucho goal, Hmeidan scored again 
to close the period, keeping the 
margin at two in the third period. 
UCSB took two early in the quarter 
in an attempt to broaden their lead, 
but Cockerill and sophomore driver Cole Martinez both hit the target to 
close the gap again.
The Tritons lost their hold in the 
final quarter, but UCSB outscored 
UCSD 4–2 to clinch the win and 
advance in the bracket.
Game Two 
After a suspenseful four frames, 
UCSD outscored San Jose State 3–1 
in overtime to snag a spectacular 
14–12 victory.
The teams sat even at 3–3 in the 
last minutes of the first quarter when 
freshman utility Kevin Asplund By   M a r c u s   T h u i l l i e r
Sports Editor
See M. WATERPOLO , page 11PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE /UCSD GUARDIANCROSS -COUNTR Y
Last Rehearsal For CCAAs
Men take first and women place third at Triton Classic.
By   K a t i e   P o t t s
Editorial Assistant
See CROSS-COUNTRY , page 11Coming off a five-set loss against Cal Poly Pomona, the UCSD 
women’s volleyball team went into the past weekend hunting for 
a win. It emerged victorious against Cal State East Bay on Friday 
night but sadly notched on another loss the following Saturday night, when 
it was defeated by San Francisco State. Both games were played at RIMAC 
Arena. Following these results, UCSD fell to 9–9 in overall ranking and 5–5 
in the CCAA ranking.
Game One
Friday night’s game against Cal State East Bay was a much-needed win 
for the Tritons as they were riding a rough three-game losing streak. 
Hoping to make a statement, the Tritons played with a strong mindset 
and ended up sweeping East Bay in three sets, with scores of 25–18, 
25–14 and 25–12. 
The Tritons improved to a 9–8 record overall and 5–4 in the CCAA 
ranking while the Pioneers fell to 3–14 overall and 1–8 in the CCAA.
UCSD played well against Cal State East Bay, hitting 0.300 with 43 
kills and 13 errors in 100 attacks, marking the fifth night in the season 
that UCSD hit at 0.300 or better. It also had a 76-percent success rate 
as it sided out 35 out of 46 opportunities. Additionally, UCSD brought 
its service game that night, landing nine aces over the course of the 
night and finishing the night off ahead in digs by 53–39.
Junior outside hitter Meagan Wright brought the heat again that 
night, hitting the Pioneers with 11 kills, 11 digs, four service aces, 
three blocks and finishing with a match-high 17 points. Along with 
producing another double-double, she brought home a 0.323 hitting 
percentage. Senior middle blocker Kameron Cooper was able to 
produce a 0.538 (9–2–13) hitting percentage, and fellow senior setter 
Heidi Sierks also posted up her own double-double, ending the match 
with 31 assists and 12 digs.
The Tritons started off the first set well, staying ahead the entire 
time and finishing the set off with impressive back-to-back-to-back 
kills, one from Cooper and two from Wright. The second set started 
off close, but after a couple of good plays the Tritons broke off ahead 
and never looked back. The third set was run by the Tritons the entire 
time as they cleaned up the match on a kill from freshman outside 
hitter Molly Dalziel. 
“It was a different mentality coming out, ” Head Coach Ricci Luyties 
told the UCSD Athletics Department. “I think we have the mindset now 
[and] for the rest of the year that we can’t take anything for granted, 
and we play hard every play. So, hopefully, that’ll keep happening. ” 
Game Two
The following Saturday night didn’t go as planned for the Tritons, 
as they ended up losing to San Francisco State 3–1 on a season-low 
hitting average of 0.091. The sets ended with scores of 22–25, 25–23, 
25–14 and 25–21 in favor of the Gators. 
Prior to the game both teams were tied for fifth place, but following the weekend’s results, UCSD dropped down to eighth place while San 
Francisco State is still tied at fifth with Cal State Los Angeles instead.
As both teams amassed 100 digs, the Tritons were able to produce 
46 kills but fell behind as they also amassed 29 errors in their total 
186 attacks. 
Of the 46 kills, senior outside hitter Danielle Dahle contributed 13 
kills and Cooper pitched in 11 kills as well. Sierks finished the match 
with 39 assists, a career-high 27 digs and three service aces. Four 
other Tritons were able to produce at least 10 digs: sophomore outside 
hitter Amanda Colla (21), Dahle (18), Wright (17) and freshman 
libero Kayla Evans (10).
“We are definitely in a fragile state right now, ” Luyties said. “ And 
it’s just a matter of playing through it, and I think the players just need 
to keep believing in themselves and keep going out there and working 
hard and we’ll be all right. ”
The Tritons hit the road next week as they take on Cal State 
Monterey Bay on Thursday and Cal Poly Pomona on Sunday. 
Tritons Still in a Funk 
Volleyball blanks CSU East Bay but cannot escape SF State.
by Gurkirat Singh // Senior Staff Writer
readers can contact
gurkira t  singh   gsingh@ucsd.edu PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE /UCSD GUARDIANM. Golf
M. Golf
M. Waterpolo
W. Volleyball
W. Soccer  10/12
  10/13
  10/15
  10/15
  10/16AT Sonoma State
AT Sonoma State
AT CSU Long Beach
AT CSU Monterey Bay
AT Humboldt StateUPCOMING
UCSD
GAMES