VOLUME 48, ISSUE 28  THURSDAY , JANUARY 29, 2015 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
UCSD RAP 
BATTLES
The UCSD Guardian interviews 
a community of freestylers 
looking to expand their reach 
beyond basic rhythm & rhyme 
to include hip-hop dancers and 
producers alike.
REFERENDUM  ROUND TWO
UCEN 's  BUdget Woes
spirit  night  previewOPINION,  P age   4
sports,  P age  12
THURSDAY
H 70 L 50FRIDAY
H 70 L 48
SATURDAY
H 66 L 50SUNDAY
H 68 L 54
FORECAST
VERBATIM
CAN’T WE RESPECTFULLY 
DISAGREE? NOPE. WE’VE 
BECOME SO IDEOLOGICALLY 
INTOLERANT TO EACH 
OTHER THAT 38 PERCENT OF 
DEMOCRATS AND 43 PERCENT 
OF REPUBLICANS NOW VIEW 
THE OPPOSING PARTY IN 
STRONGLY NEGATIVE TERMS.”
-JORDAN UTLEY-
THOMSON
GUARDIAN WATCH
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
SCIENCE AND TECH  ........ 2
COACH SALARIES  ........... 3
POKEMON  ....................... 8
SUDOKU  ....................... 10
WOMEN’S WATER POLO.12“weekend,  P AGE  6  
IMAGE BY ELYSE YANG/ GUARDIAN
FRIDA Y  NIGHT  LIGHTSUC SYSTEM
Doctors Protest in One-Day 
Strike Across UC Campuses
Doctors from the University of California Medical 
Centers held a strike against the UC system on Jan. 
27, demanding that its administrators bargain with the 
Union of American Physicians and Dentists according 
to standard and legal labor practices. This is the first 
time that any union of doctors has held a strike against 
a U.S. employer in 25 years.
The strikes at all 10 campuses commenced at 7:30 
a.m. with UCSD ’s located on Library Walk in front of 
the Student Health Services Center. Protesters handed 
out informational flyers to passersby. Protesters began 
picketing in the center of Library Walk at 9 a.m. when 
traffic increased. 
Amol Doshi, a physician at UCSD, who is one of 
four members of the union ’s bargaining team, and was 
present at the protest, told the UCSD Guardian that 
approximately 150 physicians and dentists across the 
UC campuses participated in the strike, which over 90 
percent of UAPD ’s doctors voted to authorize to pres -
sure the university into bargaining fairly.
“I have spent 43 days of the last 12 months in 
Oakland — away from patients here at UCSD, away from my family — to try to reach an agreement on our 
first contract as a physician union with the UC Office 
of the President, ” Doshi said. “ We haven ’t been able to 
make progress at the bargaining table, and so we orga -
nized this strike to draw attention to these unfair labor 
practice charges that are preventing us from bargaining 
effectively. ”
After nearly a year of negotiating with the UC 
system, UAPD has filed multiple unfair labor practice 
reports against the university for allegedly failing to 
negotiate in good faith. 
According to the FAQ for the strike, the UC system 
illegally increased the pension contribution of physi -
cians and dentists without negotiating. 
The UAPD also claims that it has requested infor -
mation about the chancellor discretionary funds and a 
breakdown of how student registration fees are spent 
and other financial information, but UCOP has denied 
its requests.
Doshi argues that it has a right to the information 
and needs it to determine how to allocate funding bet -
ter toward student health.  B y  Jacky To    Staff writer 
The UCSD department of 
recreation made the recent decision 
to move forward with the installment 
of an artificial turf on Muir Field, an 
area located west of Main Gym and 
commonly used by UCSD sports 
teams. The installation process is 
expected to last until the end of Spring 
Quarter 2015. 
The estimated total cost of the 
project is $2.15 million, which includes 
the pricing of new sports lighting and 
safety netting. The renovation also 
includes plans to remove some of the 
eucalyptus trees on the north side of 
the field.
The new, artificial turf will primarily 
be used by the UCSD men’s lacrosse 
team, the women’s lacrosse team and 
the field hockey team. Additional club sports teams will be able to use the field 
as needed.
Intramural sports will not have 
access to the field until Fall Quarter 
2015, as the project will not be 
completed until the end of Spring 
Quarter 2015, and intramurals do not 
convene over the summer. 
The university has considered 
replacing the natural grass on Muir 
Field for the past two years. According 
to UCSD Director of Recreation Dave 
Koch, the recreation department 
supported the change since the idea 
was first presented as a possibility. 
“Recreation has been supportive 
of this change from the initial 
conversations regarding the change, ” 
Koch told the UCSD Guardian.
Don Chadwick, director of facilities 
planning and management at the 
Office of the Vice Chancellor, explained 
that the decision to go through with 
the project was due in large part to the amount of wear and tear sustained by 
the field. 
“The number of teams and related 
hours of play have exceeded the amount 
of wear and tear that the natural fields on 
campus can accommodate, ” Chadwick 
told the Guardian. “When finished, 
we will be able to accommodate more 
hours of practice and competition. ”
Koch added that the new field will 
benefit all teams and players at UCSD 
by providing a consistent surface to 
use when others are closed due to 
maintenance or rain. 
“This will also allow us to practice 
and compete when we normally would 
have had to cancel due to rain or wet 
field conditions, ” Koch said.
As a part of the project, several trees 
on the north end of the field will need 
to be removed, though trees on other 
parts of the field will remain. According SARC Unveils 
New Name in 
Systemwide 
InitiativeCAMPUS
Chancellor Khosla announced 
a new name for SARC: Center 
for Advocacy, Resources and 
Education in an email last week.
B Y  Kriti  sarin
Editorial assistant
See  CARE , page 3UCSD’s Sexual Assault and 
Violence Prevention Resource Center 
has changed its name to Center for 
Advocacy, Resources and Education 
as part of the UC Office of the 
President’s initiative to standardize 
sexual violence advocacy programs 
across University of California 
campuses. The transition was 
officially announced in an email from 
Chancellor Pradeep Khosla on Jan. 
21 after UCOP issued a press release 
detailing the milestone goals the task 
force met this month.
Like SARC, CARE offers 
confidential counseling and crisis 
intervention services at no cost to 
registered UCSD students. However, 
CARE Director Nancy Wahlig told 
the UCSD Guardian that the center 
has expanded its free services to aid 
staff and faculty who are affected 
by sexual violence or misconduct             
as well.
 “Until now, we’ve only served 
students who were victims, ” Wahlig 
said. “We would always do education 
all across campus for faculty and staff 
to help students who identified that 
something had happened to them. 
But, now, we provide comprehensive 
services to faculty, staff and students. 
We still think that students will 
probably be the majority of those 
individuals who are seeking services, 
but we’re open now to everybody. ”
According to the Rape, Abuse and 
Incest National Network, there are 
over 293,000 victims of sexual assault 
every year. RAINN studies show that 
these victims are statistically more 
likely to suffer from disorders, such as 
depression and post-traumatic stress 
disorder. Wahlig said that CARE 
is determined to prevent as many 
cases of sexual violence as possible by 
raising awareness on campus.
“This is a problem that happens 
whether you’re on a college campus 
or whether you’re in the community, ” 
Wahlig said. “It’s really something that 
we all need to address. The effects of 
being a victim of a crime, whether it’s 
sexual assault or relationship violence 
or stalking, can impact someone for a 
very long time. ”
CARE has been counseling 
UCSD students and promoting 
sexual violence awareness for the 
past 25 years. The advocacy office 
for sexual, gender-based violence 
and misconduct received a $300,000 
grant from the U.S. Department 
of Justice last October, which has 
been channeled toward working 
collaboratively with community law 
enforcement officials and improving 
the program’s services overall. Wahlig 
added that the shift from SARC to 
CARE has been in progress for over CAMPUS
Artificial turf  will replace grass at Muir Field
The project will cost over $2 million and will affect intramural schedules through Fall 2015.
B Y   Br ynna Bol t
Staff writerSee  STRIKE , page 3
See  TURF , page 3
Doctors from the Union of American Physicians and Dentists stage a strike on Library Walk over negotiations with the UC System. 
Photo taken by Siddharth Atre/ UCSD Guardian.2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 29, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG N EWS
AVERAGE CAT By Christina Carlson
DO Y OU TWEET? WE DO!
@UCSDGuar dian
@UCSDGuardianFOLLOWUS NOW!
...yes, now!
@UCSDGuardian#OMG! Follow us on Twitter #NOW! 
Registration for WINTER Qtr is NOW open!
Register online at 
as.ucsd.edu/saferides
A.S. Safe Rides allows register ed un dergradua te 
studen ts to  get 3  FREE rides per quarter.
Studen ts must register  at lea st 24 hours
prio r to their first ride.  A.S. Safe Rides 
asucsd asucsdUCSD researchers made a 
discovery in cancer research that 
challenges current dominant 
principles regarding cancer-causing 
enzymes. Once widely believed to 
promote cancer, protein kinase C was 
found to play a role in suppressing 
tumor growth.
Originally, the PKC enzyme 
family was thought to progress cancer 
because of the enzymes’ relationship to 
phorbol esters, a type of plant-derived 
compound that can breed tumors if 
applied to skin. These tumors grow 
as a result of PKC being activated 
when phorbol esters bind to them 
as receptors, which was what misled 
the scientific community to believing 
they were cancer-causing agents that 
needed to be stopped. 
“For three decades, researchers have 
sought to find new cancer therapies 
based on the idea that inhibiting or blocking PKC signals would hinder or 
halt tumor development, ” Alexandra 
Newton, professor of pharmacology 
and the study’s principal investigator, 
told UCSD News Center. “But 
PKCs have remained an elusive 
chemotherapeutic target. ”
PKCs are involved in multiple 
cancer-related processes, not only 
those that encourage the disease. 
Corina Antal, first author of the 
study and graduate student in the 
UCSD biomedical sciences program, 
explained that, on the contrary, a few 
of its functions actually fight against 
cancer by promoting cell proliferation, 
migration and survival.
“Generally, PKCs have a lot of 
functions in the cell. They mediate a 
lot of processes involved in cancer: cell 
migration, cell proliferation, invasion, ” 
Antal said. “So we think that it’s 
possible that in different cancers, these 
enzymes inhibit different processes. ”
In order to gain an unbiased 
understanding of PKCs’ role in cancer, 
Newton’s group decided to investigate gene mutations identified in human 
cancer cases that were believed to 
affect the normal function of PKCs in 
cells. For example, one mutated gene 
could be coded in such a way that 
instructs cells not to create any PKC 
at all, and if so, its effect on cancer 
tumors would be observed.
Eight percent of the 550 PKC 
mutations involved in human cancer 
were analyzed in mice. Most were 
discovered to obstruct or completely 
eliminate regular PKC function in 
cells. Furthermore, the loss of PKC 
function resulted in enhanced tumor 
growth in the mice. 
When Newton’s group corrected 
for the PKC-preventing mutated gene 
in a colon cancer cell line of mice, the 
growth of the tumors was reduced. 
This demonstrated that allowing PKCs 
to pursue their normal function in 
cells prevents cancer from spreading.
Antal told the UCSD Guardian that 
cancer treatments should, therefore, 
focus on restoring PKC function 
instead of disrupting it or hindering the proteins that process them.
“I think that the main point that 
came out of this is that we shouldn’t 
try and use PKC inhibitors to treat 
cancer, ” Antal said. “In fact we should 
try and find ways of activating it, but at 
the least we should not try inhibiting 
because [inhibiting its function] is 
detrimental in itself. ”
Treatments to activate and restore 
PKC function would likely not involve 
drugs or chemotherapy. Because many 
gene mutations do not code for the 
protein that activates PKC function, 
the only way to restore PKC function 
in cells would be to restore the missing 
protein with a corrected gene.
“One could envision that gene 
therapy could be used for [restoring 
PKC function] if you replaced that 
mutant copy of the gene with a normal 
copy, ” Antal said. “But that’s sort of 
down the line; we’re not quite able to 
do that in humans yet. ”SCIENCE  AND  TECHNOLOGY
Researchers Dispel Information Surrounding Cancer Protein
Kinase C had previously been thought to exacerbate cancer growth, but new findings show it suppresses tumors.
B Y   Teiko  y akobson
Features editor
Kriti  sarin  ksarin@@ucsd.edu  readers can contact
to Chadwick, this is necessary for the 
field renovation’s completion because 
the trees were blocking sports lighting 
for the field. Work to cut them started 
on Jan. 28.
The school will also be receiving 
a rebate of $233,000 from SoCal 
WaterSmart Turf Removal Program 
meant to encourage the use of 
drought-tolerant options. The rebate brings the cost of the project down to                     
$1.92 million. 
Associated Students Vice President 
of Environmental Justice Affairs Sierra 
Donaldson has expressed concerns 
about the resources going into the 
installation process, however. 
“It is no question that turf fields use 
less water than grass fields; however, 
the manufacture and transportation of 
the plastic and rubber components of 
turf fields require water, energy and raw materials that all have negative 
environmental impacts, ” Donaldson 
told the Guardian. “Hopefully the 
university will take this and field 
lifespan into consideration of their net 
energy and waste calculations. ” 
Donaldson suggested that another 
more long-term, sustainable solution 
would be replacing other natural grass 
areas on campus.
“There is grass growing on the 
medical campus and elsewhere that is much larger in area than Muir Field, so 
the university could replace that with 
drought-resistant landscape and retain 
Muir Field’s grass for less money, less 
energy, less waste and sacrifice only 
aesthetics, ” Donaldson said. “That is 
what I would suggest if the university 
was interested in long-term, sustainable 
solutions instead of short-term, cost-
cutting solutions. ”UCSD Will Receive $233,000 Rebate to Cover Costs of  Muir Field Turf  Project
▶ TURF ,  from page 1The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and 
Thursdays during the academic year by UCSD students 
and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this 
newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, 
without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2014, all 
rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible 
for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The 
views expressed herein do not necessarily represent 
the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of 
California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is 
funded by advertising. What are we, fucking detectives?
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Audrey Sechrest
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Aleksandra Konstantinovic
Andrew E. Huang  
Taylor Sanderson
Tina Butoiu
Charu Mehra
Brandon Yu
John Story
Teiko Yakobson
Jacqueline Kim
Kyle Somers
Nilu Karimi
Siddharth Atre
Joselynn Ordaz
Elyse Yang
Annie Liu
Rosina Garcia
Laura Chow
Vincent PhamEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
  
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Social Media Coordinator
Training and Development
Page Layout
Sherman Aline, Allison Kubo, Sidney Gao, Zev Hurwitz
Copy Readers
Andrew Chao, Caroline Lee, Micaela Stone
Editorial Assistants
Shelby Newallis, Jennifer Grundman, Kriti Sarin, 
Karly Nisson, Sasha Pollock, Mario Attie, Marcus Thuillier,
Br ynna  Bol t   bbolt@ucsd.edu readers can contacta year and was a combined effort 
between the 10 UC campuses and 
U C O P.
“We have been working with the 
Office of the President for about a 
little over a year, ” Wahlig explained. 
“It was a process where we were 
working together, trying to make sure 
that everybody improved and really 
bringing up the quality of care on all 
campuses. ”
UCOP media specialist Brooke 
Converse told the Guardian that 
preventing sexual harassment is of 
utmost priority to the UC system.
“UC has no tolerance for 
sexual violence or harassment. 
The University of California must 
hold itself to the highest standards, 
and we expect all of our campuses, 
medical centers and labs to do 
everything possible to live up to 
those standards, ” Converse said.  
“UC [system] needs to be a national 
leader in curbing sexual violence on 
campus. We need to lead the way in 
improving how cases are handled and how to better educate students. ”
Last year, the UC Student 
Association launched a campaign 
called UConsent with similar goals 
of supporting victims and preventing 
future cases of sexual assault across 
UC campuses.
UConsent co-director and Muir 
College freshman Ayesha Sayeed 
stated that the two-year campaign 
focuses on the importance of mutual 
consent while educating students 
about how to react when witnessing 
situations of potential sexual violence.
“The ultimate purpose for 
this project is to create a culture of 
consent on our college campus and 
teach individuals the importance of 
bystander intervention and how to 
be an effective bystander, ” Sayeed told 
the Guardian. “It is not enough to tell 
people to take a stand without giving 
them the proper tools to prevent sexual 
assault and appropriately support 
survivors. With so many students on 
campus, if we all learn to look out for 
others and learn the proper tactics to 
intervene it will help make the campus 
feel safer as a whole. ”Co-director and Thurgood 
Marshall College junior Krystl Fabella 
told the Guardian that the campaign 
aims to eradicate the social construct 
of victim blaming through its focus on 
sexual consent.
“It should be everyone’s personal 
duty to take a stand against sexual 
assault, and we hope to create a 
culture of survivor support and free 
of victim blaming, ” Fabella said. “We 
want to fully educate everyone on the 
definition of sexual consent as being 
a positive, clear, revocable ‘yes’ and 
conscious effort and recognize what 
constitutes as sexual assault. ”
Representatives of the campaign 
at UCSD often interact directly with 
CARE staff members since the two 
programs share common goals. 
Fabella added that the organizations 
work closely together in order to 
effectively raise awareness on campus 
and that UConsent will work with 
CARE to plan activities for Sexual 
Assault Awareness Month in April. “We have seen a tremendous 
increase in the number of students 
with mental health concerns, and this 
campus at UCSD, we only have two 
part-time psychiatrists on campus, ” 
Doshi said. “So we are here to try to 
increase the funding and the staffing 
for student health systemwide. ”
Shelly Meron, who is in charge 
of media relations at the UCOP , told 
the Guardian that her office is disap -
pointed that the UAPD chose to strike 
rather than focus on ongoing negotia -
tions. She says that the UCOP believes 
they are striking merely to gain lever -
age in negotiations. 
“The union argues this strike 
is about their unfair labor practice 
charges, which do not warrant a 
work stoppage that impacts students, ” 
Meron said. “We believe this hasty 
strike is simply a negotiation tool. ”
Imelda Moya, an organizer for 
American Federation of State, County 
and Municipal Employees 3299 at 
UCSD, told the Guardian that her 
organization fully supports the 
UAPD ’s cause.
“ At the end of the day, it ’s the UC 
who takes advantage of the workers 
here on campus, ” Moya said. “So when 
we see that our fellow union brothers 
and sisters are getting attacked by the UC, we stand by them 100 percent. ”
Second-year UCSD medical stu -
dent Arvin Wali told the Guardian 
that he believes attending the strike 
helps future doctors understand how 
their system works and learn how 
they can make it better.
“It’s important for medical stu -
dents to come out here because, as 
physicians, we care about well-being 
and health, ” Wali said. “ And we need 
to learn as much as we can as best as we 
can if we really want to be in a system 
and work with a system for the better -
ment of people. ”N EWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 29, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
“Coﬀee With a Prof” is back!
We are very happy with the student/faculty participation and will continue the CWAP program.
 Please stop by any college Student Aﬀairs Oﬃce to pick up a voucher. All students are welcome to participate. All colleges are included. Please take advantage of this great opportunity to get to know your faculty member by visiting over a free cup of coﬀee! This program is for you! We encourage you to participate and enjoy the opportunity!We will provide each student with a beverage voucher to be turned into any participating coﬀee vendor at the time of their visit. Each student may participate twice per quarter. Student must have veri/f_ication that their invitation was accepted by their Professor or T.A., along with the date they have arranged to go (the week of it is /f_ine) BEFORE they request a voucher.
Participating Vendors: Art of Espresso Café, Cups Outdoor Café, Fairbanks, 
Perks, Muir Woods Coﬀee House
Coﬀee-with-a-Prof is a program sponsored by the Oﬃces of the College Deans of StudentAﬀairs’ and is funded by The Oﬃce of the Vice Chancellor of Student Aﬀairs. It allows studentsto invite a professor, faculty member, or graduate teaching assistant out to coﬀee or tea at one of the participating coﬀee vendors. It encourages students to cultivate a student-professor or T.A. relationship outside of the classroom in a more casual setting.Pick Up Your Free Coﬀee Voucher At Your college’s Student Aﬀairs Oﬃce!Looking for the 
New Business 
Column?
Now posted every Wednesday 
night, after the A.S. Council 
meeting, online.
ucsdguardian.orgAFSCME 3299 Claims UC Takes Advantage of  Campus Workers
▶ STRIKE,  from page 1
Jacky  to   j6to@ucsd.edu readers can contact
Newly Rebranded Center Will Focus on Prevention, Mutual Consent
▶ CARE,  from page 1
Kriti  sarin  ksarin@@ucsd.edu readers can contact4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 29, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CHARU MEHRA
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Polarization
Is Not The
Answer For
America
The State of the Union is clear: 
As usual, this country is divid -
ed. This is bad news, people.
Extreme polarization is the new 
normal. Since the collapse of the 
Soviet Union in the early 1990s, we’ve 
lacked a giant, communistic exis -
tential threat to remind us that we’re 
more alike than different. For almost 
all UCSD students, polarization is all 
they’ve ever known.
It’s a phenomenon that gave way to 
the Nazis in Depression-era Germany. 
It allowed the late Venezuelan dictator 
Hugo Chavez to seduce his country 
into giving him 14 consequential years 
of power. Most importantly, perhaps, 
the last time we faced extreme polar -
ization, we reached a breaking point 
that led to a civil war, resulting in 
hundreds of thousands of casualties.
Today, politicians and the elector -
ate see themselves on teams, working 
for the good of the parties, not for 
the good of the country. This is why 
something as simple as paid sick leave 
can’t pass in today’s political climate, 
despite overwhelming majority sup -
port among voters of both parties.
It doesn’t help that President 
Obama used his State of the Union 
address to confront, not to console. 
The man who campaigned to the 
presidency as a “post-partisan” politi -
cian governs as the most partisan 
president ever. It’s a title he’s inherited 
masterfully from George “either you 
are with us, or you are with the terror -
ists” Bush.
Speaking of Dubya, polariza -
tion cuts into social life, too. I’m 
reminded of the time a good friend 
of mine introduced me to his cousin. 
Sometime during our unfortunate 
car ride, he mentioned that he “didn’t 
think Bush was a bad president. ” 
The very idea threw his cousin into 
a rage — she wondered how — why 
anyone would think such a thing. She 
couldn’t help it — she’ d been raised in 
Fremont, California, her whole life, 
and this incident caused her Bay Area 
bubble to burst.
The whole experience left a very 
poor taste in my mouth. I’m no fan of 
43 myself, but it’s not like I have Bush 
Derangement Syndrome, and I’ve 
been raised in Los Angeles County 
most of my life — hardly a beacon of 
purple politics (hint: We gave Obama 
a whopping 69.7 percent of the vote in 
2012). Y ou’re very likely to run into a 
similar situation in a more conserva -
tive part of the country with Obama 
as the whipping boy.
Can’t we respectfully disagree? 
Nope. We’ve become so ideologi -
cally intolerant to each other that 38 
percent of Democrats and 43 percent 
of Republicans now view the oppos -
ing party in strongly negative terms, 
as found in a 2014 study by the Pew 
Research Center. We’re not even talk -
ing to each other since 42 percent 
of Republicans and 33 percent of 
Democrats have confirmed that most 
of their friends share their political 
views. Both statistics were minimal 
20 years ago. This country faces a dis -
turbing trend.
Whether you enter the field of 
politics, as some Tritons will, or you 
simply remain an informed voter, 
remember that polarization runs 
contrary to the diverse ideals that this 
university promotes. We must consid -
er the importance of diverse political 
thought in our daily lives, in the same 
way we welcome people of different 
colors, creeds and cultures.Aleksandra Konstantinovic
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Andrew E. Huang
MANAGING EDITOR
Taylor Sanderson
MANAGING EDITOR  
Charu Mehra
OPINION EDITOR
Tina Butoiu
NEWS EDITOR
Kriti Sarin
EDITORIAL ASSISTANT
Kyle Somers
ASSOCIATE A&E EDITOR
The UCSD Guardian is published twice weekly at the 
University of California at San Diego. Contents © 2014. 
Views expressed herein represent the majority vote of the edi -
torial board and are not necessarily those of the UC Board of 
Regents, the ASUCSD or the members of the Guardian staff. EDITORIAL  BOARD
New Year, Same UCEN
Another year, another expensive 
University Centers referendum. 
Here at the UCSD Guardian, 
we’re getting a little tired of the 
university closing down the student 
spaces we like and trying to force on us 
spaces we only tolerate — namely, Price 
Center. This most recent iteration of a 
potential UCEN fee increase, though 
clearly necessary for the cash-strapped 
department, comes in a year marked by 
closures and looming tuition increases.
For those of you who haven’t spent 
a substantial amount of your college 
careers trudging through language used 
in referenda, this particular referendum 
would raise quarterly UCEN fees to 
$14 if passed. It’s important to note 
that the exact language, purpose and 
price of the referendum will likely 
be debated as it moves through our 
administration and before it ends 
up on the ballot. But the gist of the 
referendum is simple: Students will vote 
on paying more money to allow UCEN 
to perform necessary maintenance and 
to avoid entering minimal operations 
conditions. 
The first problem with this 
referendum is that it’s strikingly similar 
to one that students already shot down 
two years ago. Back then the price was 
a slightly smaller $11 increase to reopen the Crafts Center as well as the general 
maintenance of Price Center and 
Original Student Center. Students have 
made it clear that they won’t pass a fee 
referendum. Bringing it back, without a 
better proposal than before, seems to be 
beating the proverbial dead horse.
We understand that UCEN has been 
operating on a dangerously tight budget 
for a while now, and we wouldn’t 
want to see Price Center’s operations 
cut down. If the organization would 
like to raise student fees to support 
a refurbished study space on campus 
while simultaneously paying down its 
deficit, there are dozens of other great 
ways to do so that would likely earn 
rousing support from students. 
This brings us to the larger issue, 
which is that the university doesn’t 
seem to be listening to what students 
are indicating are important spaces to 
them on campus. Part of the proposal 
of the referendum would include late-
night hours at the computer lounges 
and study spaces in Price Center. 
Though admittedly a busy daytime 
hub for commuters and residents alike, 
Price Center simply does not have the 
same appeal as a 24-hour study space 
— especially without the energy boost A recently proposed referendum will increase student fees by $14 per quarter if  
passed to keep Price Center facilities from entering minimal operations mode.EDITORIALS
ILLUSTRATION BY
 JENNA MCCLOSKEY
Just when we thought Janet Napolitano was 
going to try and have a quiet quarter, she decid -
ed to try and pull a fast one on the UC Board 
of Regents at their most recent meeting. In a 
classic example of our beloved UC president try -
ing to act like she’s actually getting things done, 
Napolitano approved a measure to tie the finan -
cial compensation received by UC coaches to the 
academic performance of their athletes, and then 
she put the policy up for a vote by the full board 
at last Thursday’s meeting. 
Great work, right? Wrong. The board mem -
bers didn’t pass the policy and with good reason. 
Their rationale: A similar policy is already in 
place for all except one of the more than 120 
varsity athletic teams within the UC system. Her 
proposed measure would barely have made a dif -
ference and, as such, was tabled by the regents to 
be worked on over the upcoming months. 
As far as raising salaries for UC employees 
goes, Napolitano seems to have made it a point 
to do everything in her power to pay high-rank -
ing UC officials more than is financially feasible, 
just to do their jobs. She made it her mission 
to do so a couple of months ago with a steep increase of tuition over the next five years in 
order to pay top administrators up to 20 percent 
more than what they already make and is now 
trying to do the same for coaches.
 In an email to the UCSD Guardian, UCSD 
Director of Athletics Earl Edwards commented 
that he felt that the policy would really have only 
changed guidelines at one UC campus — UC 
Riverside — and that enforcement of the policy 
could have negative implications. 
“Tying bonuses to something that’s some -
what required already by the NCAA and being 
reached by nearly every institution could be per -
ceived as a reward for doing something you’re 
already supposed to be doing, ” he said. 
Even Lt. Gov. and ex-officio board member 
Gavin Newsom was quoted by the Los Angeles 
Times as saying, “We are doing almost nothing 
here under the illusion we are doing something. ” 
So in lieu of pretending to get things done, 
what can Janet actually do for us? That’s a fan -
tastic question, for which we’ve come up with 
a couple of answers. For starters, she can try to 
implement a policy that will actually, tangibly 
help the athletes on UC teams. As was men -tioned in a previous news story published in 
the UCSD Guardian, the “San Francisco Gate 
reported that, in 2013, UC Berkeley’s football 
and basketball teams had the worst gradua -
tion rates of the 72 top athletic schools in the 
country. ” Napolitano’s proposal was, in some 
roundabout way, supposed to help remedy this 
problem. 
Instead of throwing money at coaches to try 
and make them somehow keep players’ GPAs 
up, she could start programs to directly help 
athletes with academic concerns and personal 
woes and help them succeed as students and 
not just as athletic poster children for university 
fundraising. She could also address the ailing 
recreational and athletic facilities at most of the 
UC campuses and try to help fund repairs and 
upgrades for those.
There’s a lot of things that Janet Napolitano 
and the UC Board of Regents could be doing 
with our money. Unfortunately, they seem to 
have lost their way a little bit too often in the 
past. Hopefully, the rejection of this particular 
policy by the regents is a sign of better times to 
come for UC students. Napolitano Should Focus on Student Athletes, Not Coaches See UCEN,  page 5jordan  utley-thomson
jutleyth@ucsd.eduguardian w a tchOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 29, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
from Dlush and Tapioca Express 
and the feta fries from Santorini 
Greek Island Grill. 
Expanding Geisel Library’s 
overnight operations would be a 
boon to a much greater majority 
of the campus. It’s certainly the 
superior study space. Just the 
thought of being in Price Center 
alone after dark sends shivers 
up our spines. If the cost of that 
is unfeasible, adding vending 
machines or a coffee cart to Geisel 
would appeal to many of the 
students who frequent it and likely 
generate a nice, tidy profit. 
CLICS, which is now sadly a 
distant memory for seniors and completely unknown to the rest of 
the campus, was closed in 2011 but 
functioned as a favorite study space 
for years. The library and computer 
lab even served as a spot for 
students to socialize, particularly 
during Finals Week. Reopening 
CLICS, or a space similar to CLICS, 
gives students a dedicated space 
that’s not shared by staff, vendors 
and visitors to campus, making it a 
better environment for studying.
It’s unfortunate that the 
spaces that keep closing down 
are the ones that give our campus 
character. The Che Cafe and the 
long-lost Crafts Center also faced 
operational deficits but weren’t 
given multiple opportunities to 
recover their deficits from student fees. In fact, an alternative version 
of this referendum, which would 
have provided funds for Che’s 
renovations, was shot down early 
on. 
Price Center is a staple on our 
campus, and UCEN clearly needs to 
find a way to fund the maintenance 
it so desperately needs. But without 
an innovative plan that takes into 
account the other student spaces 
we’ve lost over the years, the fee 
increase is hardly palatable to 
students.
We think there is a way for 
UCEN to balance its budget and 
provide a study space for students, 
and certainly fee increases we 
would be in support of, but this 
referendum is certainly not it. 
FUNGLY  By Kyle Trujillo
Money Would be Better Spent on Expanding Geisel’s Overnight Study Areas
▶ UCEN,  from page 4UCSD Guardian Managing Edi -
tor Andrew E. Huang weighs in on 
the possibility of a new UCEN fee 
referendum.
While I concur with my edito -
rial board colleagues in that raising 
student fees is an unsavory option 
given the continually rising cost of 
our education, I view the potential 
referendum in a more positive light.
With continually deferred main -
tenance and an increasingly tight 
budget, Price Center is running 
on its last legs. We might have no 
choice but to raise our own fees if 
we want it to continue to oper -
ate in its current fashion. Interior 
renovations and increased 24-hour 
access are fine and dandy, but the 
most important thing is that the 
increased fee will help prevent PC 
from running on limited operations 
— the bare minimum that it can 
provide without shutting down. 
While it’s hard to say exactly 
what these conditions entail, we can certainly expect slashed hours and 
services, at the very least. For those 
who have grown accustomed to 
what PC has to offer, this would be 
a great shame. It not only provides 
a welcome alternative to dining hall 
food, but it also houses a variety 
of student spaces such as the Loft, 
Commuter Lounge, Ballrooms and 
the A.S. Council offices. We shot 
down this referendum before, and 
now it’s coming back to haunt us.
There are, admittedly, a variety of 
student spaces and 24-hour lounges 
— many listed in the previous edito -
rial — that I’ d like to see funded, but, 
for now, let’s focus on UCEN’s biggest 
egg in the nest. PC provides some ar -
guably great services and maintaining 
it, at least in the short term, will do 
wonders for keeping UCEN out of hot 
water and capable of implementing 
other changes that we students would 
like to see. Until we find another 
viable solution to PC’s budget crisis, I 
see little choice other than to offer my 
support for the fee referendum.Dissenting Opinion
GOT ISSUES?
SEND YOUR 
LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
BE HEARD BY YOUR PEERS!WEEKEND
A&E Editor:  Jacqueline Kim • entertainment@ucsdguardian.org | Lifestyle Editor: Nilu Karimi • lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org 6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 22, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND 
ARTS   |   FOOD & DRINK   |   LIVING   
 FILM  &  TV   |   MUSIC   |   THINGS  TO  DO
Take a look at this week’s Billboard 
Hot 100. Admittedly,  the public 
simply cannot get over blond 
female singers, boy bands and pale English 
singer-songwriter-musicians. But it takes 
just one scroll down the Hot 100 to see a 
radically different picture. While the top 
10 are predominantly pop, hip-hop artists 
occupy the majority of positions in the 10 
to 25 range. Over the years, hip-hop has 
undeniably been inducted under the large 
umbrella of pop music. In fact, it is almost 
impossible for these hip-hop artists to 
stay underground when the speed of the 
music industry accelerates all talent until it 
overcomes the force of gravity and goes up 
into sky, where a “star” belongs — that is, 
until it falls.
For the last 15 years, hip-hop culture has 
changed our perception of many things: 
how a rich person should act, how an 
attractive woman looks and how to go zero 
to a hundred real quick. But all these social 
changes aside, popularization of hip-hop 
largely gave rise to a wave of nostalgia 
for some good old underground. One 
consequence of these reminiscent feelings is 
the revival of underground rap battles: rap 
competitions between two or more rappers 
who aim to put each other down in a rather 
sophisticated manner. Today, thousands of 
people are following rap battle leagues based 
in the U.S., Canada and the U.K. Despite 
having numerous fans and famous partner brands, rap battles still manage to stay away 
from the mainstream hip-hop scene and are 
open to up-and-coming MC’s. Often times, 
to participate in your first battle, all you 
have to do is email a league, providing your 
personal information.
This is what Jose Gonzalez, a student at 
UCSD, once did.
In the world of hip-hop, he goes by 
“Gryffin” and is one of the co-founders 
of the UCSD battle league and club, 
Shots Fired. Even before coming to the 
university, he and his school friend Matt 
(“K Philosophy” a.k.a. “K” a.k.a. “The 
Christopher Columbus of Battle Rap” a.k.a. 
“Y our Girl’s Favorite Rapper”) wanted to 
build a hip-hop community at UCSD. They 
got started right away during their first 
quarter in Fall 2013. Soon after their first 
rap battle, which gathered a crowd of 50 
people, they met Johnny, G Code On and 
Gus, who now form the administrative body 
of the league — a truly intriguing clique. It 
is impossible not to notice how passionate 
they are about what they do. They all started 
differently — Matt (K Philosophy) wanted 
to prove to a kid from his high school that 
the guy couldn’t rap. Gerardo (G Code 
On) started rapping after doing a school 
project in hip-hop style. And Johnny started 
rapping because he wanted to do music, 
but never quite learned how to play an 
instrument . Now they are all united by hip-
hop and a willingness to spread the culture.When you first meet this group , you 
won’t believe that that they find joy in 
“dissing” each other with the most complex 
and insensitive rhymes. Exceptionally 
welcoming and easygoing, they make 
you want to join Shots Fired even if you 
don’t rap. In fact, that is the league’s main 
approach. As the crew often proclaims, 
you do not have to be a rapper to join the 
movement since it is currently expanding 
beyond battle rap. What Shots Fired 
wants is to become a strong community of 
freestylers, music producers, beatboxers, 
hip-hop dancers and hip-hop music lovers 
who are ready to go out there and show 
their talent and support to others.
“To join the movement is really simple, ” 
emphasized K Philosophy. “ All you gotta do 
is watch. ” This sounds about right because 
watching what these guys do is not only 
entertaining (see the Y outube link above), 
but also passionately inspiring. At all battles 
and GBMs, the energy of this culture hits 
you like a wave and makes you want to write 
your own bars or rap to your favorite tracks 
out loud for your roommates to hears.
Open-minded but fierce, heated and 
aggressive during the battles but polite and 
outgoing at any other time, Shots Fired is 
not just a student org. It is a community that 
promotes hip-hop culture at its finest.
 “Our door’s open to you, just walk 
in, ” says K,  and it is in fact that easy. No 
resume needed. find shots fired online:
Facebook Page:  www.face -
book.com/ShotsFiredRap
Youtube: www.youtube.com/
beenlightyearsahead
Twitter: @shotsfiredrapUCSD HIP-HOP CLUB: 
SHOTS FIRED NON-POP     
HIP-HOP
ILLUSTRATION BY ALICE HSIEHILLUSTRATION BY ELYSE YANGBY OLGA GOLUBKOVA  // STAFF WRITERWEEKEND THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 29, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
CE/hyphen.uc3932
Reverse Transfer Campaign: Ad 
n/a 5”w x 8”h n/a4C newsprint
Guardian (UCSD)czE
Transferability of credit is at the discretion of the receiving institution. It is the student’s responsibility to con/f_i  rm whether or not 
credits earned at University of Phoenix will be accepted by another institution of the student’s choice. Individual courses are not eligible for federal /f_i  nancial aid. While widely available, not all courses are available in all locations or in both online and on-campus formats. Please check with a University Enrollment Representative. The University’s Central Administration is located at 1625 W. Fountainhead Pkwy., Tempe, AZ 85282. Online Campus: 3157 E. Elwood St., Phoenix, AZ 85034.
© 2015 University of Phoenix, Inc. All rights reserved.  |  CE/hyphen.uc3932
Need courses to graduate? 
Take ours online and transfer the credits. 
Learn how at 
866.857.5020 or phoenix.edu/graduate.
CE/hyphen.uc3932
Reverse Transfer Campaign: Ad 
n/a 5”w x 8”h n/a4C newsprint
Guardian (UCSD)czE
Transferability of credit is at the discretion of the receiving institution. It is the student’s responsibility to con/f_i  rm whether or not 
credits earned at University of Phoenix will be accepted by another institution of the student’s choice. Individual courses are not eligible for federal /f_i  nancial aid. While widely available, not all courses are available in all locations or in both online and on-campus formats. Please check with a University Enrollment Representative. The University’s Central Administration is located at 1625 W. Fountainhead Pkwy., Tempe, AZ 85282. Online Campus: 3157 E. Elwood St., Phoenix, AZ 85034.
© 2015 University of Phoenix, Inc. All rights reserved.  |  CE/hyphen.uc3932
Need courses to graduate? 
Take ours online and transfer the credits. 
Learn how at 
866.857.5020 or phoenix.edu/graduate. 
 Apply now for 2015 and learn more about each program at usfca.edu/asgrad.  
 GRADU ATE PROGRAMS A T
UNIVERSITY OF 
SAN FRANCISC O
CHANGE THE WORLD FROM HERE MASTER’S PROGRAMS AT USF
> Analytics 
> Asia Paciﬁc Studies> Biology > Biotechnology > Collegiate Athletics > Computer Science > Development Economics 
> Economics 
> Environmental Management 
> International Studies
> Public Aﬀairs > Sport Management > Urban Aﬀairs > Writing, MFA
#OMG 
#LIKE US
#FOLLOW US
@ucsdguardianYOUR NEWS, NOW. ..
ucsdguardian.org
RECIPE:
Difficulty: Super Easy
Time: 1 hour
Number of servings:  4
Ingredients:
2 cups rice
1 tomato
3/4 tsp. salt
1/4 tsp. pepper
2 tsp. olive oil
Y our choice of toppings 
(recommendation: bacon, 
broccoli, corn, carrot, 
cheese or minced beef/
pork)
Directions:
1. Wash rice two times.
2. Place the rice in a pot 
and add two and a half 
cups of water in the pot. 
3. Remove six tbsp. of wa -
ter from the pot (to com -
pensate for the tomato), 
then add salt, pepper and 
olive oil and mix well.
4. Remove the tomato stem (and the bottom if you 
want) and place it in the 
pot.
5. Place the pot into the 
rice cooker. It is time to 
toss in whatever toppings 
you like! Cover and press 
the button to start.
6. When it’s done, toss the 
rice lightly using a rice 
paddle, then serve.
Note:   It is a complete 
meal with the bacon, corn 
and cheese and tastes a lot 
like a lighter version of 
risotto. Of course, this is 
highly dependable on the 
quality of your tomato. 
Make sure to use organic 
tomatoes for the best re -
sult! Also, make sure you 
use slightly less water be -
cause of the water content 
in the tomato. You do not 
want it to turn into mushy 
porridge.The Whole Tomato Rice has taken the internet by storm! 
It started from Japan, and has now gone completely viral 
in Asia. This dish tastes good as is, but you can also top 
it with cheese and/or basil to add more flavor! I toss in 
clams and shrimp to turn it into a luxurious seafood     
version of tomato rice.Whole Tomato Seafood Rice BY MAGGIE NG // STAFF WRITER
PHOTOS USED WITH PERMISSION FROM BBCGOODFOOD.COM8     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 29, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
Guardian : In the VGC 2015 format, what are some current metagame  
threats that people are using?
Roberto : One popular strategy that is called “Terracott, ” which is the 
combination of Terrakion  and Whimsicott . Whimsicott uses “Beat Up” 
on its partner to max its attack [but inflicting]  damage. Then there are 
other Pokemon such as Thundurus , who has an ability called Prankster 
that gives its non-attacking moves priority, and Therian form Landorus 
, whose ability Intimidate lowers the attack of the opposing team. Some -
times you want to disrupt the other team, so you might use Fake Out 
which is commonly used on Pokemon like Mega  Kangaskhan  to flinch  
them. These are just a few of the many common threats.
G: Is there anything that currently stands out right now?
R: Contrary Serperior  was just released, who is really powerful. He has 
an attack called Leaf Storm that would normally lower [the Special Attack 
stat ], but its ability reverses it to increase your power.
G: Can you discuss some of the play styles that people are using?
R: Rain is definitely popular, as it weakens fire attacks. However, people 
have stopped using Drizzle Politoed and instead use     manual rain set -
ters such as Sableye  or Thundurus, who can set it up themselves. It really 
helps. People also use Mega Charizard Y over Mega Charizard X because 
of Drought , which allows you to run powerful moves like Solar Beam 
and Heat Wave in the sun. Then there is Trick Room  which good because 
you can destroy teams that rely on speed. Y ou want a good yet slow set -tler who can attack and tank because they have to constantly set up Trick 
Room throughout the game.
G: What are some common ways to disrupt the opponent’s team?
R: There’s Fake Out, which flinches the target. Priority  moves are great, 
though sometimes the opponent will have moves like Quick Guard to 
block these moves. They’re not that common, however. Talonflame  is a 
good example, who has Gale Wings  to attack with Brave Bird and Acro -
batics or assist its team with Tailwind .
G: What is more important: team match-up or skill?
R: Definitely a balance of both. It takes a lot of skill to anticipate and 
read your opponent while also executing your own strategy. But having a 
good team is really important.
G: What is one particular way to have a favorable match-up?
R: It can help to use underrated Pokemon that are out of the norm — the 
recent champion used a Pachirisu . They won’t expect it, and it’s really 
fun to use your own creative things. However, it still takes skill. The guy 
facing the champion used a lot of good Pokemon but he was making a lot 
of poor moves that could be taken advantage of. So skill definitely comes 
into play.
G: What advice do you have for new, aspiring Pokemon trainers?
R: Try different teams and test them, then practice, which can take a lot 
of time. But make sure you have fun and catch them all!UCSD is home to its very own Pokemon League — a group of diverse gamers 
that take Pokemon to another level. While some play the game casually, more 
competitive members go to recognized, national tournaments to claim the title 
of Pokemon Master. With the release of Pokemon: Omega Ruby and Alpha 
Sapphire, another competition presents itself for veterans and new players 
alike. With the Pokemon Regionals Video Game Championship coming up in 
February, the UCSD Guardian held an interview with Roberto Knapp Ramos, a 
competitive player who aspires to play in the VGC 2015 format.
c      mpetitive      p      kem      n 
trainers
•	Metagame	refers	to	the	game	universe	and	its	environment.
•	Terrakion,	the	Cavern	Pokemon,	is	a	legendary	Rock/Fighting 	
type.
•		Whimsicott,	the	Windveiled	Pokemon,	is	a	Grass/Fairy	type.
•		A	move	in	which	the	u	ser	attacks	multiple	times	in	succession.
•		Thundurus,	the	Bolt	Strike	Pokemon,	is	a	legendary	Electric/Fly -
ing	type.
•		Landorus,	the	Abundance	Pokemon,	is	a	legendary	Ground/
Flying	type.
•	“Mega”	stands	for	Mega	Evolution,	which	allows	a	Pokemon	to 	
change	during	battle.
•	Kangaskhan,	the	Parent	Pokemon,	is	a	Normal	type.
•	Flinching	is	a	status	condition	that	renders	a	Pokemon	unable	to 	
attack	for	a	turn.
•	Serperior,	the	Regal	Pokemon,	is	a	Grass	type.
•	Pokemon	have	different	stats,	such	as	Special	Attack	and	nor -
mal	Attack.
•		Drizzle	is	an	ability	that	summons	Rain	for	five	turns.
•		Politoed,	the	Frog	Pokemon,	is	a	Water	type.
•		Sableye,	the	Darkness	Pokemon,	is	a	Dark/Ghost	type.
•		Drought	is	an	ability	that	summons	harsh	sunlight	for	five	turns.
•		Trick	Room	is	a	move	where	slow	Pokemon	become	fast	for	five 	
turns.
•		Priority	refers	to	moves	that	always	go	first.
•	Talonflame,	the	Scorching	Pokemon,	is	a	Fire/Flying	type.
•	Gale	Wings	is	an	ability	that	gives	Flying	type	moves	priority.
•	Tailwind	is	a	move	that	doubles	the	team’s	speed	for	two	turns.
•	Pachirisu,	the	EleSquirrel	Pokemon,	is	an	Electric	type.	It	is	nor -
mally	considered	weak. 																by CHRISTIAN GELLA 
// Staff Writer
Illustrations by  ELYSE YANGNOTESWEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 29, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
Social
PowerHourSocialPowerHour
FREE GAMES, MUSIC, AND PIZZA!
FREE GAMES, MUSIC, AND PIZZA!
FIRST COME, FIRST SERVEd
FIRST COME, FIRST SERVEd
DATESDATES
WHEN AND WHERE WHEN AND WHERE
JAN. 29PC COMMUTER
LOUNGE FEB. 12 & 26
MAR. 125PMW anted  on  Voy age
by  George  Ezra
Release Date Jan. 27
British singer-songwriter asserts his musical 
diversity with an impressive debut album.ALBUM   REVIEW
Never judge a book by its 
cover — or in this case, 
never judge an artist by 
their appearance. With wavy blonde 
hair and alluring blue eyes, up-and-
coming artist George Ezra would fit in 
perfectly as a new member of British 
boyband One Direction until you hear 
his voice. Ezra’s debut album “Wanted 
on Voyage” suggests that there may 
indeed be space for yet another artist 
in the developing “singer-songwriter” 
category. His deep register and pro -
found lyrics blend with certain aspects 
of indie, pop and folk music to cre -
ate a surprisingly delicious musical 
smoothie. 
The album opens with the 
upbeat tune “Blame It On Me, ” 
exhibiting Ezra’s youth with playful 
background instruments and care -
free lyrics. He sings of a personal 
story and repeats each verse with 
the phrase “What are you waiting 
for?” to suggest that life is too short 
to worry about things. In other 
words, it’s a much more innocent 
take on the #YOLO culture. The 
lightheartedness continues with his 
lead single “Budapest, ” which uses 
steady clapping and the soft strum -
ming of the acoustic guitar to evoke 
a more subtle sound as he sings 
about love and sacrifice. 
Ezra’s slower tunes also shine, 
especially the simple yet beautiful 
tune “Breakaway. ” It builds gradu -
ally with the initial guitar followed 
by smooth electronica sounds and a 
powerful gospel choir that comple -ments his deep voice perfectly. 
He shows off his confidence as he 
convinces a girl she is in the wrong 
relationship by singing: “Y ou may 
think he’s a demolition expert when 
he’s finished with your self-esteem, ” 
only to encourage her to “find shel -
ter” with Ezra instead. 
The folksy “Leaving It Up to 
Y ou” shows Ezra’s sincerity and 
vulnerability as he asks a girl for a 
second chance at love. It is intro -
duced by Ezra casually saying “foot 
stomps and clicks and claps and 
shakers and all different things like 
that” in the three seconds before the 
actual music begins, alluding to the 
percussiveness of the song. With the 
soothing acoustic guitar and his fal -
setto in the chorus, this song shows 
massive soul and talent. 
The difference between Ezra’s 
appearance and his sound is sur -
prising, but the contrast between 
his lyrics and type of music is 
even greater. Ezra combines mor -
bid lyrics with upbeat tunes and 
lighthearted lyrics with slower 
tunes, possibly implying that not 
everything is as it seems from the 
outside. “Wanted On Voyage” takes 
a risk by fusing together a wide 
array of sounds and messages that 
may appear scattered, but an artist 
as impressive as George Ezra can 
execute them with sophistication 
and style. 
—    Ana Magallanes 
Contributing writerVulnicura
by   Bj o rk
Release Date Jan. 20
Icelandic singer navigates new territory flawlessly in beautifully
structured album.ALBUM   REVIEW
Bjork has always fractured the 
diaphragm of pop music. 
This time around she enlists 
musicians Arca and Haxan Cloak 
for help with her instrumental 
landscape — harnessing the same 
iPad apps from her 2008–11 
Biophilia Project — to produce 
“Vulnicura” — “Cure for Wounds” 
in Latin.
This album is startlingly personal. 
The most intimate song, “History 
of Touches, ” archives “every single 
fuck” in a “wondrous time lapse” as 
vocals split between hollow chimes. 
Evidently, Bjork has traded in her 
war cries (“ Army of Me, ” 1995) for a 
voice that is even more powerful: a 
conversation that laments the end of 
her relationship with American artist 
Matthew Barney.
Now, you can call this a “breakup 
album” if you want to — and most 
people want to — but that would be 
taking the easy way out considering 
the way in which Vulnicura is struc -
tured charts not only the downfall of 
a relationship but also the triumphant 
resurrection of self that follows. 
In terms of emotions, “Vulnicura” 
is shaped like an hourglass, begin -
ning wide open with “Stone Milket, ” 
a lighter song that beckons, “show 
me emotional respect. ” It then grad -
ually narrows into the initial stages 
of self-doubt via dissonant roar with 
“Lion Song” — “Maybe he will come 
out of this, loving me / Maybe he 
won’t” — before closing up almost 
all the way in the center with “Black Lake’s” aggressive drums. “Family, ” 
however, is the real crux of the 
album. Here, Bjork and her pitch-
warping accomplices engage in an 
electronic erasure of the family unit 
and return to the ritualistic “where 
do I go to make an offering, ” as she 
mourns the death of her “miraculous 
triangle: father, mother, child” with 
a quick violin reminiscent of fleeting 
footsteps.
But the songs that follow “Black 
Lake” and “Family” are by far the 
most impressive. In line with the 
hourglass structure, the album sur -
passes its narrow boundaries and 
opens back up with “ Atom Dance” (featuring vocals by Antony 
Hegarty), a celebration of personal 
strength that rebuilds the self with 
lyrics, like “Enter the pain and 
dance with me. ” By the end of 
“Vulnicura, ” Bjork is healed, consis -
tent with the album title’s meaning. 
Case in point, this is much more 
than a “breakup” album — as you 
can imagine any album that dies 
and resurrects itself within the span 
of one hour must be. It is a trans -
formation. Listen and learn.
—    Nilu   Karimi
lifestyle editor
PHOTO COURTESY OF  FACT MAG10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 29, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
CLASSIFIEDS$
Guar dian Classi/f_ieds ar e FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifieds
BIKES
24” Bike Almost New - $99. This Kend bike 
is in almost new condition. See images. Listing ID: 115872964 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Beautiful Women’s Beach Cruiser - $250. 
Beautiful women’s beach cruiser for $250 with many upgrades like LED lights, basket, horn and more! Moving and no longer need a beach cruiser. Paid well over $400 for it. Listing ID: 115872963 at ucsdguard
-
ian.org/classifieds for more information
LandRider /Auto Shift - $350. Brand new, 
has only been ridden once (and then it was just around the block). Listing ID: 115872962 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
BOATS
52’ Tayana Center Cockpit 1987 - $249900. The Tayana 52 is a truly stunning sailing yacht. Few yachts will exhibit her sym
-
metry or head-turning beauty. PolarBear is perhaps the finest center cockpit Tayana 52 ever built. She is fitted with the finest English made stainless steel and it needs little maintenance to present. Listing ID: 115873046 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Nona Canoe w/ 2.2 hp Nissan Motor - $800. 
Nona Canoe in attractive shape with two paddles, a life jacket, and a 2.2 horse
-
power Nissan boat motor. Will trade for another fishing boat. Listing ID: 115873044 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
1999, 18 ft. Quality Mariah Open Bow Boat 
- $7500. 18 ft. open bow, IO 3.0L, four cyl
-
inder in excellent running condition. Eight passengers. I only pre-owned it in freshwa
-
ter. Low hours, stereo, CD, and many other goodies. Clear title. Just renewed registra
-
tion. Listing ID: 115873042 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
FURNITURE
Leather Sectional Sofa - We are remodeling our house and selling our gorgeous (and super comfortable) leather sectional sofa. This sofa was made by Thomasville and sold new for $6500. It is coming from a non-smoking, non pet shedding, no shoes in the house home and is in like new condi
-
tion. Asking $4250. Listing ID: 115872984 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Wicker / Rattan Chair - $20. This large wick
-
er / rattan chair is in attractive shape struc -
turally. Some of the paint has scratched off, 
but can easily be repaired, especially at this price. Listing ID: 115872983 at ucsdguard
-
ian.org/classifieds for more information
Beautiful cake / dessert stand - $12. 
Beautiful, white porcelain cake / dessert stand. Scalloped edges and cutout design. 12” diameter, 5” high. Great for parties and everyday display. Perfect condition. Listing ID: 115872981 at ucsdguardian.org/clas
-
sifieds for more information
t
your visio n,
our missio n.
outfitters@ucsd.eduCreate custom a pparel to 
promote your student 
organiza tion with Triton 
Outfitter's new Made TO Order program!www.ucsdguardian.org/advertising
.com/ucsdguardian
.com/ucsdguardian
Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies 
on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.ukLevel: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
Level:
12
34Level:
12
34Level: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
SUDOKU
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 29, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
team, ” UCSD head coach Brad Kreutz -
kamp said. “Last year, we could catch 
up to teams at any time. We went 
back after that game and decided that 
we have to buy into playing defense 
early; otherwise we’re not going to win 
games. ” 
Despite the tough opening day, 
the Tritons seized their redemptive 
opportunity on Sunday.
UCSD first defeated No. 17 Mich -
igan 9–5, with four goals coming 
from Wieseler. The Tritons recorded 
three goals in the first half, while 
junior goalkeeper Courtney Miller 
allowed only one in the cage. 
Despite the slight 3–1 lead enter -
ing the second half, the Wolverines 
narrowed the deficit down to a 5–4 
score at the end of the third quarter. 
However, UCSD dispelled any trace 
of a comeback attempt in the final 
frame, netting four goals while con -
ceding just one to Michigan.
Outside of Wieseler’s four, Kistler 
finished strong with a hat trick of her 
own. Miller also recorded 11 saves.  In their final game, the Tritons 
recorded an impressive 8–6 come -
back win against their higher-ranked 
opponent No. 11 Cal State Long 
Beach. Cal State Long Beach came 
out strong to take a 4–2 edge after 
the opening period. However, Miller 
would allow only two more goals for 
the remaining three quarters as the 
Tritons fought their way out of the 
early deficit. 
UCSD scored one goal in the 
second frame but shut out the 49ers 
to enter the half trailing 4–3. In the 
third, the Tritons outscored Cal State 
Long Beach 2–1 to knot the score at 
five apiece.
In the final frame, UCSD built 
off momentum to score three goals 
and allow just one to take the hard-
earned 8–6 win and complete the 
four-game weekend split. 
Wieseler and junior attacker Julia 
Kirkland each recorded a hat trick, 
while Miller stepped up in the cage 
with an early season-high 16 saves. 
“Obviously I felt really happy 
about getting two top-20 wins 
the next day, ” Kreutzkamp told the UCSD Guardian. “They really 
listened. ”
After losing key players at the 
end of last season, including UCSD’s 
all-time scoring leader Sarah 
Lizotte, the Tritons will have to rely 
on a younger ensemble cast this 
season along with a new approach 
to the game in hopes of returning to 
nationals.
“We knew that losing a couple 
[of] offensive powerhouses last year 
with Lizotte and [Melissa] Bartow 
that we were going to have to define 
new roles for the girls coming back 
this year, ” Kreutzkamp said. “We 
start with our defense. If we can 
hold our teams to six or seven goals, 
we can give ourselves a chance to 
win. ” 
The Tritons will return to ac -
tion on Thursday, Feb. 5, against 
Hartwick College in their first home 
game of the year starting at 7 p.m. 
UCSD will then host the Triton 
Invitational that weekend. 
CLUB  SPORTS
Men’s Ultimate Frisbee : This past weekend, the UCSD men’s ultimate 
frisbee team, the Air Squids, traveled north to UC Santa Barbara for its 
first regular season tournament in the Santa Barbara invite. The team 
started strong with a Saturday morning 13–6 win over Victoria College. 
They went on to play a challenging game against Arizona State University 
but managed to finish with an 11–8 victory. After a long, two-round 
bye, the Squids faced off against their crosstown rivals: San Diego State. 
Though there were several errors on both sides, the Squids were able to 
squeeze away a 12–11 victory over SDSU’s Federales. The Air Squids were 
able to finish the day with a perfect 4–0 record after an easy 13–6 win over 
Northeastern University. COMPILED BY BRITTNEY VIERRA
Roller Hockey: The UCSD club roller hockey team played in Tucson, 
Arizona this past Saturday for their third tournament of the year at the 
University of Arizona. The Tritons improved their league leading 9–0 
record to 12–1. UCSD lost its first game of the year against UC Irvine 
before winning over host University of Arizona. The team was then 
awarded a forfeiture by Cal State Northridge before pulling out a victory 
against the University of Southern California in the final game. Despite 
losing their first game of the season over the weekend, the Tritons remain 
atop the West Coast Roller Hockey League standings.
Women’s Volleyball: The women’s volleyball club hosted the first 
regional league tournament of the year this weekend, going 2–1 at home. 
The Tritons prevailed over UC Irvine in two sets, 25–10 and 25–19, 
respectively and in doing so, avenged a three-set sweep from the two 
teams’ last meeting. The Tritons also swept Cal State Fullerton in two sets 
in the next match, but UCSD was unable to win against crosstown rivals 
San Diego State in the final match of the day. The Aztecs won the first set 
before UCSD rebounded 25–15 in the second. However, the blue and gold 
could not pull out the final set and fell 15–8 to SDSU. The team is now 
slated at No. 9 in women’s Division-I rankings and will see action again on 
Feb. 7. 
Tennis: UCSD’s club tennis sent three teams to Irvine on this past 
weekend for the UC Irvine Invitational. There were many positive 
outcomes for each of the three teams, which should bode well for the 
upcoming Sectionals Tournament, during which a nationals bid will be 
at stake. All three of the teams representing UCSD went 2–1 on Saturday, 
and the C-team qualified for the winner’s bracket, in which the team also 
found success.6–0 record in the mixed epee’s pool 
play. 
The junior went on to win the 
following three direct elimination 
matches before qualifying for the fi -
nal bout. However, Arutjunancs fell 
shy in the last round to San Diego 
Fencing Center’s Pablo Calderon in 
a close match with a final score of 
11–9. 
In the women’s epee, the Tritons 
dominated as they placed in four 
of the top five positions out of a competitor pool of eight athletes. 
Emily Cabral of No Fear Fencing 
Club was able to win first place over 
UCSD junior epeeist Nicole Chiang 
in a close match with a final score 
of 15–12. Chiang finished second as 
a result with an excellent 6–1 record 
in pool play.
Behind Chiang, junior epeeist 
Laura Hawkins and freshman epee -
ist Keyue Bao tied for third place, 
while senior epeeist Natalie Chan 
placed fifth. 
The mixed sabre was the only 
event in which the Tritons didn’t place in one of the top ranks. Junior 
sabrist Drew Dickinson placed the 
highest in the event at fifth place. 
Despite UCSD’s recent success, 
the competition only gets harder 
as they now look to compete in the 
Northwestern Duals, which will 
include a slew of the best schools in 
the nation. The event will be held 
on Jan. 31 and Feb. 1 in Evanston, 
Illinois.  UCSD Will Face T ough Division-I Competition at Northwestern
Tritons Will Have Home Opener on Feb. 5 Against Hartwick ▶ FENCING,  from page 12
▶ W. WATER POLO,  from page 12readers can contact
  gurkira t  singh     gsingh@ucsd.edu 
readers can contact
  brandon  yu     bcyu@ucsd.edu 
@UCSD_SportsSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
BRANDON  YU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 29, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
Entering Friday night just one game back of a three-way tie for first place in the California 
Collegiate Athletic Association, the Triton men (10–6, 8–4 in conference) are looking to make a 
big leap in standings as they face 11th-ranked Cal State East Bay (2–10) on Friday night and ninth-
ranked Cal State Monterey Bay (5–7) on Saturday evening. 
“It’s a really exciting atmosphere on Spirit Night, ” UCSD head coach Eric Olen said.  “Having so 
much energy from the fans is something that our team can really feed off of. It’s exciting. ” 
While the UCSD men’s basketball is coming off a loss from last Saturday, the Tritons were on a 
dominant, six-game winning streak immediately before, tying the school record since becoming a 
Division-II program in the 2000–01 season. The recent, hot streak is indicative of an exceptional 
season thus far for a team that was pegged to finish ninth early in the season. 
UCSD has truly relied on an ensemble cast, as opposed to the efforts of a single superstar for 
this year’s success. As a team, the Tritons sit just behind Humboldt State for the title of most three-
pointers in the league thus far in 2015. Additionally, UCSD has turned the ball over fewer times 
than any other school in the conference, averaging just 10.9 turnovers per game. 
The Tritons have also been solid defensively, as they held their opponents to just 54 points per 
game during their recent winning tear. 
At 4–14 overall and 2–10 in the CCAA, Cal State East Bay may present little to no contest for 
the Tritons who are 9–4 all time in the two squads’ previous matchups. Cal State Monterey Bay and 
UCSD are tied at 11–11 all time, however, and the Tritons have a great opportunity to tip the scale 
in their favor at RIMAC after having lost their earlier meeting this season by a narrow 64–62 score.
“I always tell our guys that the most consistent teams are the ones that are going to there at the 
end, ” Olen said. “We have a really competitive conference, so we can’t overlook any team. ” 
After finishing seventh in the CCAA last year, one spot short of the six-team postseason cutoff, 
UCSD is looking toward an unlikely year of redemption and will get an opportunity to showcase 
their skills in front of the season’s most jam-packed crowd on Friday.  Both games will commence at 
7:30 p.m.On Spirit Night, the sixth-ranked UCSD women’s basketball team (9–8, 7–5 in California 
Collegiate Athletic Association) will square off against seventh-ranked Cal State East Bay 
(11–7 and 6–6 in CCAA) in a game that could have dramatic playoff implications. For now, 
the Tritons hold the sixth and last qualifying spot in the CCAA, right in front of Friday night’s 
opponents. 
UCSD is led by two-time CCAA player of the week junior forward Farrah Shokoor, who 
leads the conference in rebounding at 12.2 boards per game and is sixth in scoring, with an 
average of 13.9 points per game. Senior guard Miranda Seto is the other Triton with double 
figures in scoring at 12.8 points per game. Senior forward McKennan Bertsch and her unreal 
68.6-percent shooting leads the league in field goal percentage.
A dangerous Cal State East Bay team, who defeated UCSD 74–57 earlier this season in 
Turlock, features senior guard Stephanie Lopez who leads the league in total scoring and whose 
18.4 points per game and 4.4 assists per game are good for second in the league. 
On Saturday, UCSD will face Cal State Monterey Bay at RIMAC Arena. Cal State Monterey 
Bay currently holds the 11th spot in the conference (out of 12) with a record of 4–13 and 2–10 
in the CCAA. UCSD defeated the Otters earlier this year with a 68–57 victory and will look to 
reproduce the feat. 
“Spirit night is a great environment; the electricity in RIMAC is amazing, and our team feeds 
off of that, ” UCSD head coach Heidi VanDerveer told the UCSD Guardian. “Spirit weekend is 
definitely something our players are looking forward to. It’s an occasion to show the student 
body our men’s and women’s basketball teams. We start playing teams for a second time, and it 
is something that’s good for our team and we want it to be a big show. ”
Just one week after two disappointing losses that dropped them in standings, the Tritons will 
look to regroup. The team is fully healthy for the first time this year, and this set of two games 
will test the group’s chemistry and sense of urgency in a tight playoff race. Friday and Saturday’s 
games will both tip off at 5:30 p.m.After recording the second-highest attendance in RIMAC Arena 
history last year, 2015’s Spirit Night held this Friday will look to be 
another thrilling and raucous evening of basketball. While both the 
men and women’s basketball squads have had had a strong year thus far, 
Friday’s games will mark the beginning of the second half of their seasons 
and could have serious playoff implications. Take a look at the UCSD 
Guardian’s previews of both conference matchups (women’s at 5:30 p.m., 
men’s at 7:30 p.m.) for what should be an entertaining blue and gold night. SPIRIT NIGHT
SHOWDOWN
This past Sunday, the UCSD 
fencing team took home a first-
place win and seven top-three 
finishes as they competed nearby at 
the San Diego Cup held at Cathe -
dral Catholic High School.
Rather than competing against 
fellow universities, the Tritons 
went up against a host of fencing 
clubs and academies, including 
the San Diego Fencing Center 
and Couer Du Lion Fencing Club, 
among others. UCSD competed in 
a total of four events in the mixed 
epee, mixed foil, mixed sabre and 
women’s epee. 
The Tritons’ very own first-place 
winner was freshman foilist David 
Hadler, who took the top spot 
among a field of 32 competitors in 
the mixed foil. Hadler was quite 
dominant that day, going un -
touched at 6–0 in pool play before 
cruising through the direct elimina -tion rounds without much of a 
hitch. In the final round, he faced 
off against Dillon Cooke of Couer 
Du Lion Fencing Club and secured 
first with a final score of 15–8. 
Fellow freshman foilist Nicholas 
Phan followed close behind as he 
tied for third place in the competi -
tion along with two other competi -
tors. 
The Tritons were also impressive in the mixed epee as they were able 
to place in two of the top four posi -
tions. Out of a field of 28 athletes, 
junior epeeist Art Arutjunancs 
placed second while freshman epee -
ist Alex Okamoto pulled through to 
tie for third place. 
Arutjunancs, like Hadler, was 
able to post an impressive perfect FENCING
Strong Results Posted at San Diego Cup Men Aim To Nab CCAA ’s Top Spot Women Looking to Bounce Back
Triton fencers secure numerous podium finishes on Sunday at local invitational. 
B Y  gurkira t  singh
staff writer
See FENCING , page 11
PHOTO USED WITH PERMISSION FROM UCSD ATHLETICSW.  W A TER  POLO
Season Opener at UCSB
UCSD splits a four-game weekend at Winter Invite.
Kicking off its 2015 campaign, 
the No. 13 nationally ranked UCSD 
women’s water polo team had a busy 
opening weekend at UC Santa Bar -
bara’s Winter Invite. The Tritons lost a 
pair of matches to No. 5 Arizona State 
University and Cal State Bakersfield 
on Saturday before bouncing back 
the following day with two victories 
against No. 17 University of Michigan 
and No. 11 Cal State Long Beach.  
In their first action since the 
NCAAs last May, the Tritons struggled 
early on in a 9–5 loss against Arizona 
State. The Sun Devils jumped to an 
early 4–0 lead in the first frame, an 
advantage that would prove too great 
to overcome for UCSD.
Junior two-meter defensive player 
Alexis Wieseler netted a pair of scores 
in the second quarter, but Arizona 
State matched her effort with two 
goals of its own to maintain a 6–2 
edge. In the third quarter, the Tritons were outscored 3–1, with their lone 
goal coming from sophomore attacker 
Connie Wu. The final period saw a 
2–0 shutout for the blue and gold but 
made little difference in the losing tilt. 
Later that day, the Tritons fell to 
Cal State Bakersfield in a lackluster 
11–6 outcome in which they missed 
23 shots. 
Again, UCSD fell into a hole early 
on, allowing five goals in the first 
quarter despite tallying two of their 
own from Wieseler and junior at -
tacker Laurel Kistler. The Roadrunners 
would only add to their advantage as 
Cal State Bakersfield easily handed 
UCSD its second loss of the season in 
as many games. 
Wieseler, Kistler and senior at -
tacker Jolene Guiliana each scored 
two, serving as the only goal-scorers in 
the match.
“We were a team that hadn’t really 
defined itself yet [on Saturday], not 
knowing that we are now a defensive B Y  brandon  yu
sports editor
See W. WATER POLO , page 11BY GUARDIAN SPORTS STAFF // PHOTO BY ALWIN SZETO
DESIGN BY SHERMAN ALINEM. Basketball
W. Basketball
Swim/Dive
M. Volleyball
Baseball     1/30
     1/30
     1/31
     1/31    
     2/01VS Cal State East Bay
VS Cal State East Bay
VS University of San Diego
AT Brigham Young 
VS Western Oregon UPCOMING
UCSD
GAMES