VOLUME 49, ISSUE 5   THURSDA Y , OCTOBER 8, 2015  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
BEHIND THE 
VELVET CURTAIN
Q&A WITH UCSD ALUMNUS 
MARK EMERSON, WHO IS 
STARRING IN THE MODERN 
RETELLING OF “THE PHANTOM 
OF THE OPERA,” REVEALS THE 
LIFE OF A THESPIAN TO THE 
UCSD GUARDIAN.
GRIDLOCKED   GUN   LA W S
A  WEEKEND  A W A YOREGON    GUN   VIOLENCE
soccer  splits  road  gamesOPINION,  P age 4
Sports,  P age  12
THURSDAY
H 79 L 66FRIDAY 
H 87 L 69
SATURDAY
H 87 L 67SUNDAY
H 84 L 69
FORECAST
VERBATIM
IF WE WANT 
TO WORK ON 
RAISING THE 
STANDARD OF 
LIVING AND 
ERADICATING 
POVERTY 
... WE HAVE TO IMPROVE 
THE CONDITIONS OF SMALL 
FARMERS.”
   - AYAT AMIN & MARCUS THUILLIER
AROUND THE GLOBE
OPINION , PAGE 4
INSIDE
ABCD STUDY  .................. 2
MINIMUM WAGE .............. 4
LEMONADE  ..................... 7
CLASSIFIEDS  ................ 10
W. VOLLEYBALL  ............ 12“WEEKEND,  P AGE  6
PHOTO BY NAME HERE / GUARDIAN
UCSD hosted its largest 
hackathon to date last weekend 
and attracted students from other 
California colleges and from out 
of state. Organized by Triton 
Engineering Student Council, SD 
Hacks was able to accommodate 
over 1000 students from 5000 
applicants in a tent at the UCSD 
Track and Field Stadium.
According to the event’s head 
organizer and Earl Warren College 
junior Ryan Hill, UCSD is now one 
of three colleges in California to 
host a hackathon on the scale of 
1000 participants.
“We sent buses to 11 locations around California,” Hill told the 
UCSD Guardian. “Students attended 
from most of the UC [colleges], 
Caltech, Stanford and USC, to name 
some of the major ones. ”
Hill offered his opinion on the 
UCSD hacking community and said 
it was unlike those at many other 
campuses.
“Having been to a lot of 
hackathons, a lot of other 
universities are jealous of UCSD’s 
computer engineering and hacking 
community,” Hill said. “Even 
students from dream tech schools 
like MIT who come here are 
amazed with the computer science 
community, and that’s what allowed 
this event to come together so well. ”
During the 36-hour hackathon, event organizers provided students 
with resources ranging from 
mentors to 3-D printers, which 
students were able to use for a 
variety of engineering and computer 
science-based projects.
Though several smaller awards 
were offered, the grand prize went 
to a team of UCSD students who 
created a method of uploading a 
credit card to a phone and then 
using an electromagnet to scan the 
card information into an ordinary 
card reader.
Some of the other projects 
included an machine that mixed 
drinks based on what music is 
playing, a website that uses machine New Digital Media Lab 
Offers Free 3-D Printing 
Geisel Library opened its new digital media 
lab on Wednesday. Located in the Library’s 
East Learning Commons on the second 
floor, the lab offers free 3-D printing and other 
media-editing resources for UCSD students, staff 
and faculty. 
Digital Media Lab Manager Scott McAvoy told 
the UCSD Guardian that the lab is the first of its 
kind on campus because it makes 3-D printing 
freely accessible to all students.
“There are other places on campus that charge 
$25 per cubic inch, but we’re doing it all for free, ” 
McAvoy said. “[Several] classes on campus already 
require people to design a 3-D model and print 
it out as part of their coursework. This lab is the 
only place where it all comes together and gives 
everybody access. ”
Visitors can reserve a space in the lab for up to 
three hours on weekdays from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m., 
and there are instructional workshops available for 
individuals who are interested in learning how to use the lab’s resources.
Emerging Technologies Librarian Duffy Tweedy 
said that the digital media lab is not limited to 
students in technical majors and offers resources to 
students in all academic departments.
“The idea was to cater to students who weren’t 
necessarily in media classes, ” Tweedy explained 
to the Guardian. “[These students] wouldn’t, 
therefore, have a dedicated lab for that department, 
major and class and would just need to crank out 
one video or one 3-D print and don’t know where to 
go. We’re trying to fill in the gaps of the non-media 
students who have limited needs but still need some 
expertise. ” 
In addition to receiving funding from the 
Library’s budget over the past two years, McAvoy 
said that part of a recent $3 million donation from 
Audrey Geisel helped make the lab a reality. He 
added that approximately $2 million in donations 
are still needed to expand the media lab beyond its 
current location and incorporate new features, such   B Y  KRITI  SARIN    NEWS EDITORCampuses 
Compete to 
Cut Carbon 
EmissionsUC SYSTEM AROUND CAMPUS
UCOP’s Cool Campus 
Challenge is part of a UC 
initiative to achieve carbon 
neutrality by the year 2025.  
BY   J o s h   L e f l e r
Staff Writer
See  COOL , page 3The UC system launched the 
Cool Campus Challenge on Oct. 6, 
a university-wide competition aimed 
at motivating students and faculty to 
reduce the carbon footprints of their 
respective campuses.
UC President Janet Napolitano 
announced the competition in a 
video message this September.
“We’re on our way to becoming 
the very first university system to 
wipe out its carbon footprint for 
good, ” Napolitano said. “It’s a 
daring goal, one that will take both 
individual and collective action to 
make happen. ”
UC administration encourages 
students and faculty from all UC 
campuses to sign up individually or 
in teams to join the competition. 
Each school will be holding weekly 
challenges to award points to those 
who perform actions that reduce the 
total emissions on campus. 
Each week will revolve 
around a different sustainability 
theme, including education and 
awareness, composting food waste, 
transportation and others. 
At the end of the competition, 
the school that amasses the most 
points will be crowned “Coolest UC 
Campus. ”
The competition, which runs 
from Oct. 6 to Dec. 10, is part of a 
larger UC initiative to reach carbon 
neutrality across all campuses.
In 2013, President Napolitano 
established the Carbon Emissions 
Initiative, which aims to reduce 
carbon emission levels to zero across 
all campuses by the year 2025.
According to Jane Teranes, 
Associate Director of UCSD’s 
Environmental Systems program, the 
Cool Campus Challenge serves as 
a means to raise awareness among 
students and faculty about the 2013 
initiative.
“The UC President has issued 
a goal for all of the UC system to 
be carbon neutral by 2025. That is 
just 10 years away, ” Teranes told the 
UCSD Guardian. “This challenge is 
timed with making the goal a reality. ”
UCSD Campus Sustainability 
Manager Sara Mckinstry said this 
competition foreshadows a number 
of environmentally sound additions 
on campus in both the short-term 
and the long-term. 
“Some of these changes [the 
current student body] will see, 
like more electric vehicle charging 
stations on campus. Some you won’t 
… like biogas or other renewable 
energy contracts, ” Mckinstry told the 
Guardian. 
According to the UCSD website, 
biogas is already implemented on UCSD Campus Hosts International Hackathon
Over 1,000 students participated in the 36-hour programming competition last weekend.See 3-D, page 3
See  HACKATHON , page 2CAMPUS
SAN DIEGO
BY   KY L E   S O M E RS
staff writer
UCSD students watched Finding Nemo and Jurassic World at TritonFest’s Poolside Cinema event on Oct. 3.
Photo by Emily Tipton /UCSD Guardian
2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 8, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
AVERAGE CAT By Christina Carlson
Registration for FALL Q UARTER
A.S. Safe Rides all ows registered 
unde rgraduate stude nts to get
3 FREE rides per quar ter. Stude nts 
MUST register at lea st 24 hou rs 
prior to their ﬁ rst ride.  A.S. SAFE RID ES
REGISTER ONLINE AT
AS.UCS D.EDU/SAFERIDES
@asucsd IS N OW O PEN!
#wherewillyougo
Discover where you’ll study 
abroad at usac.unr.edu .Your Gateway to the WorldUSACThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. Jacky is on a date wirh a young blueberry.
General Editorial: 
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Marketing Director
Laura Chow
Associate Marketing Director
Peter McInnis
Training and Development Manager
Cedric Hyon
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Vincent Pham
Rosina Garcia
Tina Butoiu
Kriti Sarin
Jacky To
Cassia Pollock 
Marcus Thuillier
Allison Kubo
Kyle Somers
Karly Nisson
Brittney Lu
Olga Golubkova
Jonathan Gao
Megan Lee
Joselynn Ordaz
Sherman Aline
Elyse Yang
Christina Carlson
Jennifer GrundmanEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
 
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
Associate Features Editor
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Sherman Aline, Allison Kubo
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim
Editorial Assistants
Sage Schubert Christian, Katie Potts, Christian Duarte
@ucsdguardianLast week, UCSD announced that 
it will lead a study to discover more 
about the developing adolescent 
brain. Led by UCSD professors, 
the Adolescent Brain Cognitive 
Development program will be a 
longitudinal study that will observe 
over 10,000 children from the ages 
of nine to 10 over the next 10 years.
The study aims to discover the 
biological and behavioral factors that 
put some youth at an increased risk 
of mental dysfunction. Additionally, 
this study will focus on the effects 
of drugs and substance abuse on the 
developing adolescent brain.
Terry Jernigan, the director of 
the UCSD Center for Human 
Development and one of the study’s 
principal investigators, explained to 
the UCSD Guardian why there was a 
need for such a large sample size and 
how the ABCD study differed from 
previous studies.
“ Although much important work 
has been done in recent years to help 
us understand the adolescent mind 
and brain, some limitations are that 
the studies are often too limited in 
size or scope to assess the roles of 
the many factors that are probably 
important for understanding 
something as complex as the fast-developing adolescent mind,” 
Jernigan said. “This study promises 
to be the most definitive study to date 
of a period in the development of 
the mind and brain that is, for many 
people, the time when they develop 
a trajectory that leads to growing 
independence, productive creativity 
and personal resilience. ” 
Additionally, Jernigan described 
how some serious neuropsychiatric 
conditions may develop during this 
period of adolescence.
“Unfortunately, it is also a period 
of great risk, ” Jernigan said. “The 
earliest manifestations of many 
serious neuropsychiatric conditions 
occur during this period of 
development — mood and anxiety 
disorders, dependence on damaging 
substances like drugs and alcohol 
or behaviors that hijack otherwise 
promising minds — and some youth 
experience academic and economic 
disengagement. ” 
Jernigan further described how 
the study was designed and how 
it could lead to the discovery of 
factors that contribute to intellectual 
development and prosocial behaviour, 
as well as adverse outcomes.
“Our team of researchers has 
done as much as possible, within 
the limits we were given, to design 
a study that will be useful to the 
entire developmental-cognitive 
neuroscience community — to study these and many other aspects of late 
childhood and adolescence, ” said 
Jernigan.  “Furthermore, because we 
will study a cohort drawn from all 
parts of our society, we can look 
much more closely at what factors 
predict intellectual engagement, a 
sense of well-being and purpose and 
prosocial behavior — as well as what 
factors may contribute to adverse 
outcomes. ”
Susan Tapert, another one of the 
study’s principal investigators, told 
the Guardian what the team plans 
on learning from this study and what 
could be done with the findings.
“We plan not only on learning 
how behaviors in adolescence affect 
brain development, cognition and 
outcomes into young adulthood — 
including risk behaviors like substance 
use — but also how protective health 
behaviors like getting good sleep, 
having positive social interactions 
and engagement with school might 
improve brain development, ” Tapert 
said.  “Our hope is that, in 10 years, 
we will have some very good advice 
for teens, parents, schools and even 
policymakers on how to make the 
most of the important life stage of 
adolescence. ”
Eleanor Roosevelt College 
junior and neuroscience major Lori 
Mandjikian described the impact that 
this study will have for the field of 
neuroscience. “With 10,000 individual children 
enrolled in the study, researchers and 
psychiatrists will have a great number 
of case studies to draw from when 
diagnosing, treating and potentially 
even preventing mental dysfunctions 
in the future, ” Mandjikian said. “This 
is why ABCD is extremely necessary 
and worthwhile. ”
Chancellor Pradeep Khosla also 
remarked on the effect that this study 
will have for UCSD in general.
“This landmark study reflects 
UC San Diego’s strength in 
multidisciplinary approaches to 
questions of national importance, ” 
Khosla told the UCSD News 
Center. “These national leaders 
will coordinate a broad network of 
scientists around the country, all of 
whom are focused on new ways to 
understand and support successful 
development of our youth. ”
The Collaborative Research on 
Addiction at the National Institute 
of Health, a group of institutes that 
focus on addiction research, will 
sponsor the ABCD study. The cost, 
distributed among the institutes, is 
around $150 million for the first five 
years. According to UCSD News 
Center, UCSD expects to receive 
$32 million in awards during this 
time period. SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
UCSD Plans Longitudinal Study of  Over 10,000 Adolescents
Called the ABCD program, the study will analyze brain development in children across the nation for over 10 years.
BY   O M K A R   M A H A J A N
Staff Writer 
OMKAR  MAHAJAN   omahajan@ucsd.edu readers can contact
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGsee more at
Follow us on Twitter 
@UCSDGUARDIANNEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 8, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
learning to judge an applicant’s tone 
in a cover letter and the use of an 
Oculus Rift to make a virtual-reality 
model of the earth, a project that 
was done by Caltech students.
Though it didn’t win any awards, 
the music-based drink-mixing 
machine, named DrinkedIn, drew 
praise from several attendees, 
including Warren junior Andrew 
Huang.
“DrinkedIn isn’t the most practical invention, ” Huang told the 
UCSD Guardian. “But it’s certainly 
creative and one of those that really 
stood out in both appearance and 
technical prowess. ”
Hill discussed the way that the 
different schools generally chose to 
cooperate rather than compete.
“One of the cool things about 
hackathons is that the students there 
don’t care so much about where 
people are from so much as what 
they’re building, ” Hill said. “There’s 
a lot of pride that students have about where they go to school, and 
I like that that comes off the table at 
these events. ”
TESC plans to make it a yearly 
event, and it hopes to be able to 
admit more people in the future. 
According to Hill, one idea that 
is being considered is to host SD 
Hacks on an aircraft carrier due to 
its size and unconventional nature.campus through the university’s 
state-of-the-art microgrid, which 
saves approximately $8 million 
annually.
UCSD has a history of 
contributions to the global 
sustainability movement. Dr. Charles 
Keeling, a former professor at Scripps 
Institute of Oceanography, was 
the first to prove that atmospheric 
carbon dioxide levels were rising in 
1961.Teranes explained that all UC 
schools will be required to make big 
changes to their infrastructures to hit 
President Napolitano’s goals in time. 
“We are going to have to shift 
quickly to renewable energy … 
We’re going to have to rethink our 
transportation, ” Teranes said. “These 
are campus-wide initiatives that have 
to be a part of the system-wide goals. ”
Despite these high-level changes, 
Mckinstry stressed the importance 
of participation regardless of 
background or interests.“We hope the Cool Campus 
Challenge helps us create a cultural 
shift on campus … Even if [you] 
don’t perform research or work on 
sustainability, what [you] do every 
day makes a difference, ” she said.
Those interested in 
participating in the competition 
can sign up on the official website, 
coolcampuschallenge.org.as a virtual reality section.
Eleanor Roosevelt College senior 
and peer consultant Shaira Tuazon 
explained that the ultimate goal of 
the lab was to grow into a much 
larger facility.
“We’re trying to expand it into 
a full-on digital media scholarship 
center, ” Tuazon said.
Newly appointed urban studies 
instructor Emily Verla Bovino said 
that, though she is not sure her 
USP100 students will be required 
to use 3-D-printing technology, she intends to connect them with the 
lab’s resources. 
“I would like to introduce 
students to the ways they can use 
things like 3-D printing, prototyping 
and animation software to visualize 
space differently, ” Bovino told 
the Guardian. “There is a design 
practicum in urban studies and 
planning, and they do a lot of work 
with sketch-up and [some work] 
with 3-D printing. ”
Sixth College junior and 
peer consultant Crystal Nguyen 
encouraged students to use the lab.
“Everyone should take advantage of it, ” Nguyen said to the Guardian. 
“Our goal is to make people aware 
that this technology exists and is 
available for students and staff to 
use. ”
McAvoy added that another work 
in progress is a drone typography 
program, which would use drone 
technology to capture images of 
UCSD’s campus and then generate 
models of the architecture using the 
media lab’s 3-D printers.Lab Expansions Will Include Drone Technology, Virtual Reality
Campus Microgrid Directs Biogas, Saves $8 Million Every Year
Future UCSD Hackathons Could Take Place on Aircraft Carriers▶ 3-D, from page 1
▶ COOL,  from page 1
▶ HACKATHON,  from page 1Kriti  Sarin   news@ucsdguardian.orgreaders can contact
Josh  Lefler   jlefler@ucsd.edureaders can contact
Kyle  So m ers   ksomers@ucsd.edureaders can contactLooking for the 
New Business 
Column?
Now posted every Wednesday 
night, after the A.S. Council 
meeting, online.
ucsdguardian.org4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 8, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CASSIA POLLOCK
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
With the Oregon shootings as the latest incident in a perpetual 
string of  gun violence, the UCSD Guardian’s Editorial Board 
considers the breadth of  complex factors that gridlock our legislature 
from taking action  from taking action.Locked and Loaded
ILLUSTRA TION   B Y  EL Y SE  Y ANGWhy Small 
Farms
Matter
Across  the  Globe
Marcus Thuillier & Ayat Amin
We have a farming problem. 
And by we, I mean nearly every 
country on Earth. The problem? 
Small farms are unprofitable to the 
point where the vast majority of 
small farmers cannot make a living 
from farming.
This is clear no matter where 
one lives. In the United States, the 
U.S. Department of Agriculture 
reports that 82 percent of farmers 
get the majority of their income 
from off-farm sources. In other 
words, the bulk of their money and 
living expenses don’t come from 
growing and selling food. 
It’s just as true around the 
world: The United Nations reported 
that non-farm income in Asia and 
Africa provides the majority of 
income for rural families, and in 
Latin America and the Caribbean, 
only 10 to 20 percent of rural 
communities get more than three-
fourths of their income from 
on-farm activities. 
This may seem irrelevant, but 
it’s not. Farms mean food, and 
with the global population at 7 
billion and growing everyday, food 
security needs to be given higher 
priority. Although the problem 
is global, it manifests itself in 
different ways around the globe. 
In Africa and Asia, it holds back 
economies and is a major source of 
poverty. In those two continents, 
most food is provided by small 
farms. In 2013, the Huffington Post 
reported that 80 percent of the 
farms in Africa and 88 percent of 
the farms in Asia are categorized as 
small — less than five acres. And 
those farms are poor. 
According to Huffington Post, 
800 million people living below 
the global poverty line work in the 
agricultural sector. If we want to 
work on raising the standard of 
living and eradicating poverty — 
which is a U.N. Global Goal for 
2030 — we have to improve the 
conditions of small farmers. 
Furthermore, loss of profit 
for small farms is causing many 
to close, meaning large farmers 
only grow bigger. The USDA 
reported that between 1997 and 
2012, the number of large farms 
grew 120 percent while mid-sized 
farms fell 19 percent. The U.S. is 
in desperate need of workers in 
this field, but with small farms 
being unprofitable, the opposite is 
happening, leaving fewer people 
to grow food for the growing 
American population. 
Although this affects areas 
around the globe, the solution is 
uniform. To help small farmers 
anywhere in the world, I suggest a 
three-part plan of attack. 
First, we should make it cheaper 
and legally more accessible for 
small farmers to own the land 
they are farming. Many own the 
tools but not the land, resulting in 
higher costs and less profit. Second, 
we should subsidize agricultural 
methods that increase yield. This 
will make it cheaper for small 
farmers to bring in more profit 
(and food). 
Lastly, we need more farmer’s 
markets around the globe. The 
more corporate ladders farmers 
must go through to sell their food, 
the less profit for them. With this 
plan, small farmers can have easier 
lives, and hopefully the rest of us 
will get more opportunities to eat 
their delicious food. “There’s been another mass shooting in America — this time, in a community 
college in Oregon, ” President Barack Obama said in a White House press 
statement. 
It’s a sobering statement, and one that loses its efficacy each time. And this goes 
without saying that Obama is jaded: He’s made 15 statements and counting on mass 
shootings, with two statements just this past summer, one in Charleston, South 
Carolina and the other in Lafayette, Louisiana. Roseburg, Oregon now dots the map 
with a mass shooting at Umpqua Community College. It’s as if the debate over gun 
control ebbs and flows, gaining droves of support when incidents occur but losing all 
collective force to enact legislation when the news cycle hits reset. 
The U.S. can’t seem to align its crosshairs with gun control. Maybe mental health is 
the overarching issue that not enough Americans are actually confronting. Or maybe 
mental health is a scapegoat public figures like to use as the reason why thousands of 
Americans die every year from gun violence. On a segment from “Last Week Tonight 
with John Oliver, ” Oliver handily dismisses the notion that those with mental illnesses 
perpetrate the majority of gun violence. In fact, mentally ill people are less likely to 
commit violent acts, but do experience a disproportionate amount of violence against 
them. According to a new study in the American Journal of Public Health, just 5 
percent of 120,000 gun-related killings between 2001 and 2010 were committed by 
those with a mental illness. Just 5 percent. Yet when a mass shooting occurs, talking 
heads pull from their armory phrases synonymous with “mental illness. ”
Obama made a call-to-action in his statement, asking news sources to report on the 
number of civilian deaths from terrorist attacks versus gun-related violence. CNN, The 
Rolling Stone, Forbes, Vox and several more news outlets weighed in with strikingly 
similar charts and figures. The consensus? Approximately 3,000 victims of terrorist 
attacks have been killed from 9/11 onward compared to over 400,000 victims from 
See GUN LAWS, page 5
Less than 2 percent of UC 
employees will be affected by the 
university’s new minimum wage 
proposal — 1.6 percent to be exact. 
And according to the UC Office of 
the President media representative 
Kate Moser, 1.6 is a serious, 
significant number. 
The other 98.4 percent, however, 
will continue to be paid whatever 
wages their employers assigns 
them. A lot of these folks already 
make more than $13, which is great 
in itself. 
However, the remaining 98.4 
percent are those who will be 
paid less than this minimum wage 
because they work fewer than 20 
hours every week, the “aha!” feature 
of UC President Janet Napolitano’s 
“beneficial” plan. 
Oftentimes, if not most of the 
time, these workers don’t choose to 
work less. Instead, their employers 
don’t allow them to work more, 
or they are students who simply 
don’t have the time to do so. 
Therefore, under the new “Fair 
Work, Fair Pay” plan, workers who 
are scheduled for the fewest hours 
will also likely earn less money per 
hour that the system allows them 
to work.
Despite this, UCOP considers itself to be the top leader in blazing 
the wage-raising trails.
“With this change, the 
[University of California] is a leader 
in the national effort to establish a 
fair minimum wage, ” Moser said.
This may have a grain of truth, 
but unfortunately you can’t really 
lead a fleet that hasn’t fully taken 
off, especially when your plane is 
cruising at the height of a two-story 
doll house.
Now, one might argue that we 
should be happy that someone’s 
getting a wage increase at all and 
that we’re taking one progressive 
step in the right direction.
Yes, genuinely, we celebrate 
for the 1.6 percent, the 3,200 
employees who will deservedly reap 
the benefits of the $13-per-hour 
wage, just as Napolitano celebrates 
as she reaps the publicity benefits 
that the dozens of articles praising 
her misleading policy provide 
her. However, we cannot stop to 
celebrate every time administrators 
throw us a treat that only feeds a 
small number of us. 
“We as students cannot allow 
ourselves to believe it is an ultimate 
victory for us, ” A.S. Vice President 
of External Affairs Krystl Fabella 
told the UCSD Guardian. “The wording of the policy and who it 
is applicable to explicitly excludes 
students and is an easy way out for 
President Napolitano to strike a 
national headliner. ”
Indeed, once again, Napolitano 
gained lots, while the students 
gained naught. 
In these instances, everyone 
always seems to demand that 
change and justice stroll in one 
minor step at a time, as if getting 
slapped more softly is less insulting.
“Moving forward means 
holding President Janet Napolitano 
accountable when she releases a 
statement that very explicitly and 
almost shamelessly states its priority 
of ‘becoming the first public 
university in the United States to 
voluntarily establish a minimum 
wage of $15, ’” Fabella said.
Why aren’t we doing that — 
holding our officials accountable? 
Though we should cheer for those 
who did receive a raise, we should 
simultaneously boo — loudly and 
uncompromisingly — at those who 
prevented the rest from getting it. 
If we don’t, our pockets will 
continue to be empty, and our 
heads will continue to shake 
disappointingly at the fact that 
we’re not one of the 1.6 percent.“Fair Work, Fair Pay Act”: This PR Stunt Doesn’t Help Students
Vincent Pham
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Tina Butoiu
MANAGING EDITOR
Rosina Garcia
MANAGING EDITOR  
Cassia Pollock
OPINION EDITOR
Kriti Sarin
NEWS EDITOR
Jacky To
ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITOR
Allison Kubo
FEATURES EDITOREDITORIAL  BOARD
The UCSD Guardian is published twice a week at the 
University of California at San Diego. Contents © 
2015. Views expressed herein represent the majority 
vote of the editorial board and are not necessarily those 
of the UC Board of Regents, the ASUCSD or the 
members of the Guardian staff. 
OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 8, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
gun violence. And despite this stark 
difference in terrorist and gun-
related incidents, Obama stated that 
the United States has successfully 
poured trillions of dollars into 
counter-terrorism efforts but 
cannot get legislation off the ground 
to research ways to prevent gun 
violence.
Then there’s gun culture in the 
U.S. Many could — and would 
— argue that owning a firearm 
is a right and is clearly stated in 
the Constitution. Some pro-gun 
individuals, like National Rifle 
Association Board member Charles 
Cotton, would even argue that the solution is to have more guns to 
protect us from guns. Republican 
presidential candidate Donald 
Trump agrees, spewing that if 
the faculty at UCC had guns, the 
situation would’ve been dramatically 
different. But the truth of the matter 
is that 85 percent of Americans 
support background checks as a 
method of gun control, and 57 
percent of Americans support a 
ban on assault-style weapons. These 
statistics, gathered by Pew Research 
Center, show that more than half of 
the American population would like 
there to be more gun control, if not 
at least more laws surrounding the 
purchasing of guns.So there’s something deeper and 
more obscure than the debate over 
gun control. There are influences 
that have more gravity than public 
support. This simple truth causes 
many voters to develop a feeling of 
powerlessness on the issue of gun 
laws. According to the Washington 
Post, on average, 55 people die every 
day by their own guns and will 
continue to do so until there is a 
solution to guns in the U.S. And the 
scariest thing of all is that there is no 
solution. There is not one piece of 
legislation that can be passed swiftly 
and with unabashed bipartisan 
support. There is no smoking gun 
when we need one.WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
The Government Repeatedly Fails to T ake Action Against Gun Violence.
▶ GUN LAWS,  from page 4SEND YOUR 
LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGGOT ISSUES?Q&A
Mark Emerson from 
“Phantom of the Opera”
INTERVIEW BY YIDIAN HUANG  // STAFF WRITER
As an actor in “The Phantom of the Opera,” UCSD alumnus 
Mark Emerson introduces his view on the spectacular new 
production of the ever-popular Broadway classic that is currently 
touring across North America. The cast will be performing in 
San Diego from Oct. 7 to Oct. 18. Mark plays the Auctioneer 
and understudies Monsieur Andre, one of the principal roles in 
“Phantom,” and is a part of the male ensemble.
This is a “spectacular new production” of “The Phantom 
of the Opera. ” How is the production “spectacular” and “new”?
This is a different production than the previous one, which is 
the brilliant original production that’s on Broadway. It is in honor of the 
25th anniversary of the [musical], and it’s still the same great score that 
everyone has yearned for and fallen in love with, but it [has] different 
design aspects and it’s got all the technology that’s been updated for 2015. 
So the chandelier does some pretty spectacular things. And it’s being 
directed with a slightly different sensibility. It’s a little bit more naturalistic, 
and a little bit more toward today’s audiences.Guardian:
Mark:
What is your favorite part of the show?
I feel really lucky that I have a pretty full part of the show that 
I do every night. As the Auctioneer, I introduce and call in the chandelier, 
which is the iconic fixture in the show. Y ou’ll see when you see the show 
that our chandelier sends from the ceiling and I get to be on stage when 
that iconic overture is played. That’s my favorite part.Guardian:
Mark:
What kind of life experience has helped you portray 
your character?
 I definitely couldn’t have done the show without my MFA 
training from UCSD, that’s for sure. I got my MFA in acting from the 
UCSD program and spent three years there. Y ou know, it is one of the 
most renowned and highly regarded acting programs in the country. I 
spent three years studying acting, voice training, physical training and 
all of those aspects just prepare you for anything that’s thrown at you. 
We do “Phantom of the Opera” eight times each week, every single week 
and I’ve done the tour for almost three years. So I have been trained in 
the show eight times each week, every single week, for three whole years. 
This allowed me to have that endurance both vocally and physically. The 
training also brought me the artistic chops to find new things and to make 
it seem like you are creating these people and the circumstances in the 
moment. That is something [for which] I definitely got the tools in my 
UCSD training.Guardian:
Mark:How’s working on “Phantom” compared to the things 
you’ve worked on in the past?
I mostly have been doing small plays around the country, 
plays in New Y ork City, for friends and for almost no money. This is 
quite shocking, and [it’s a] blessing to be able to go across the country 
to all these truly spectacular theaters that have between 1,500 and 3,000 
seats and different performance stages to perform on. It’s very different 
from my normal acting days in New Y ork City. It’s being able to meet 
people, a lot of kids across the country. Many teenagers are very excited 
about Broadway shows coming to their towns — they can’t come to 
New Y ork to see all the shows they want to see. They love theaters and 
musicals. Now they get their chance to see what they want to see. This is 
also the exciting part of touring.Guardian:
Mark:
What inspired you to become an actor?
In high school I was always in the bands and the choir. One 
year they did a musical and I was a drummer in the band. They needed 
someone to play the drums for the production of the musical. I watched 
everybody have fun every night. We got one line as the band to say 
in the show. The feeling of being a part of the show was exciting for 
me, and it made me want to audition for the next show that they had. 
That got me into performing, and once I started doing it, I just felt it 
was a natural fit for me. It was fun to perform with my friends and to 
explore all these other characters. And then I went to undergraduate 
at Northwestern University, outside of Chicago. I was a theater major 
there. Just seeing the musicals in Chicago and having my mind 
broadened by what kind of different plays there are out there was really 
inspiring to me and kept me wanting to pursue acting.Guardian:
Mark:
Do you have any specific advice for aspiring actors 
studying at UCSD?
 It is a great idea to get training as an actor, and they have 
great training at UCSD. It is the matter of trying out all the different 
tools that acting teachers can provide you with, and finding which ones 
are helpful to you. Try to get as much experience as you can, figure out 
what works for you, what doesn’t work for you, try to get as much work 
as you can, which is really, really difficult. Foster your relationship with 
people you are going to school with — a lot of them are the people you 
end up working with later on. I worked with a lot of UCSD grads in 
New Y ork City and those relationships are really important. Guardian:
Mark:
PHOTO USED WITH PERMISSION FROM MATTHEW MURPHYWEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 8, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
There is a new age in SoCal 
cooking. From Malibu to Hollywood, 
green juice bars, acai bowl stops and 
tofu-based goods are around each 
corner. Where a local diner might 
have once sold overglazed doughnuts 
or cheeseburgers dripping in high 
cholesterol, a new cafe serving matcha 
soy lattes and buckwheat pastries is 
now capturing the attention of the 
millennial lifestyle. No longer is this 
artisan way of eating restricted to the 
elite yogi or celebrity pre-Oscar trends. 
Instead, it’s dominating and fabricating 
a new way to live and eat. 
And Lemonade is a capitalist 
mastermind doing just that. This 
upscale cafeteria that once appealed to the locavore in Santa Monica has 
now become a chain of hotspots 
to get your fix of all things locally 
sourced. With a new location situated 
in UTC, Lemonade has strategically 
incorporated its health-conscious 
philosophy into the stomachs, hearts 
and Instagrams of La Jolla residents 
and students. However, what allows  
Lemonade to withstand the rising 
competition among organic eateries is 
its ability to market a once-exclusive 
lifestyle as familial and inclusive. 
This Ikea-esque style of dining 
is not intimidating — it’s inviting. 
Behind a glass emporium of 
colorful foods, a crusade of smiling 
staff cheerfully serves homemade, 
healthy meals that satisfy vegans and 
carnivores. What first catches your 
eye is the marketplace of salads and side dishes that complement flavors of 
the day and change with the seasons. 
For about $3 a portion, one can taste 
everything from couscous mingling 
with plump raisins to roasted 
cauliflower and warm curry spices to 
a bright red beet salad topped with 
crunchy walnuts and spicy paprika. 
While the uncommon ingredients 
and flavors can seem daunting at 
first, the newfound palette that exists 
beyond your usual salt and pepper 
will make you reconsider your ways. If 
you’re searching for something with a 
heartier edge, five dollars can get you 
a succulently poached salmon dressed 
to the nines in a delicate lemon-
based marinade or their famous 
poke — unlike any tuna salad 
you’ve ever had and tossed with the 
flavors of the tropics. Further down the line is an array 
of stews with both exotic and familiar 
combinations of meat and vegetables, 
like the red miso beef short rib braised 
in a unique blend of spices — just 
like your hip grandma used to make. 
But before you wind up at the cash 
register, a glorious display of desserts 
beckons your attention like a siren 
call. I know what you’re thinking, 
what in Beyonce’s vegan name, is a 
cupcake doing in the middle of this 
healthy haven? But fear not, these 
cupcakes, pies, macarons and custards, 
while incredibly decadent, still carry 
on Lemonade’s mission. Baked with 
coconut oil and raw sugars, these 
desserts satisfy in a way no 100-calorie 
pack can. To complete your order, 
make sure to snag a glass of this 
cafe’s namesake. Feeling traditional? Grab a refreshing cup of old-
fashioned lemonade or an Arnold 
Palmer. Feeling feisty? Sip on the 
guava limeade or watermelon 
rosemary lemonade. 
So for a fraction of the price of 
boxed coconut water at Whole Foods, 
you can get the entire experience of 
localized Southern California cuisine. 
I’ll admit, I was a bit skeptical trying 
out a restaurant that wasn’t just selling 
food but an overly popular lifestyle; 
it was Lemonade’s ability to balance 
seasonal, good-for-you food with an 
atmosphere that mirrors the warm 
and sunny SoCal vibe that might just 
make Lemonade an ultimate response 
to life when it gives you lemons. HOURS:
Open daily 11:00 AM to 9:05 PMLOCATION:
Westfield UTC La Jolla $
TRAILS AND TRIBULATIONS  
Every so often, UCSD students decide to venture out of 
Geisel Library and experience this thing called “nature. ” 
Never heard of it? Well, fear not — the UCSD Guardian 
is here to explain this incredible phenomenon and give 
you an inside look to the world outside.
Cedar Creek Falls (Devil’s Punch Bowl)
Difficulty Level: Challenging
If secluded waterfalls and the sharp angles of boulders are your 
personal aesthetic, Cedar Falls may be your cup of tea — or rather, 
your Devil’s Punch Bowl. Ramona may be remote and the hike may 
be quite the trudge, but the sight of San Diego’s few remaining waterfalls 
— aren’t we in a drought? — will inspire all kinds of experimental-memoir 
travel writing. An 80-foot waterfall pooling into a stream of cold water; a 
jagged arrangement of rocks and sediment; a quiet swim; a rope-swing, for 
the youthful at heart. While this earthly haven — complete with that crisp, 
nostalgic air of the days when nature wasn’t treated like a sandbox — seems 
like the perfect refresher, the hike to this waterfall is anything but a makeshift 
getaway. Buy a hiking permit online (www.recreation.gov), and bring plenty 
of water and enough vital spirits for a three-mile hike.  
by Christian Gerard Gella//Senior Staff Writer
Los Penasquitos Canyon Preserve
Difficulty Level: Easy
The biggest misconception one could have about the Los Penasquitos 
hike is believing it is actually a hike. Ironically, the name Los 
Penasquitos translates to “little cliffs” in Spanish, but there is hardly any 
elevated terrain at all. In fact, other than a flat dirt road and some slightly raised 
rock formations about a mile and a half in, there’s really nothing more than 
the classic California chaparral landscape. Before we write off Los Penasquitos 
altogether, it is worth mentioning that about a mile from the trailhead, there 
is a charming little surprise: a very small waterfall cascading through volcanic 
rock. The waterfall area is full of small children and dogs frolicking around 
in the calm creek water. The trail is also largely dominated by cyclists and 
horseback riders, which makes walking along the trail a bit cumbersome, 
especially when avoiding the large mounds of horse poop and actively trying 
not to get clobbered by the cyclists giving loud and frequent reminders that 
they are “passing on your left. ” 
Situated between Sorrento Valley and Mira Mesa, Los Penasquitos is no 
more than a 20-minute drive from UCSD, making it an easy mini-adventure 
for beginning level cyclists. Parking is plentiful in the lot close to the northern 
entrance at the intersection of Park Village Road and Camino Del Sur in 
Rancho Penasquitos. Final thoughts: Los Penasquitos Canyon Preserve is not 
really a trail for hikers. It is, however, a great trail for cyclists and families with 
young children looking for a bit of adventure on any given Saturday morning. 
by  Shelby Newallis//Senior Staff WriterThree Sisters Falls 
Difficulty Level: Challenging
When you hear the name “Three Sisters, ” you might think of the play by the famous Russian author Anton 
Chekhov or a historic name for the three main agricultural crops of the native peoples of North America 
(winter squash, maize and climbing beans, duh). But because we live in San Diego, chances are you know 
Three Sisters to be a hiking trail located near the iconic pie stop, Julian. It’s no surprise that this hike is 
popular among drought-exhausted locals, since its final destination is a majestic cascade of three waterfalls, giving 
this trail its namesake. 
Since you probably wouldn’t be happy hiking four miles in the heat just to find a few pitiful drops in place of the 
waterfalls, wait until the heat ends to pay Three Sisters a visit, particularly after a rainy day. However, the heat is not 
the only obstacle. Before enjoying the refreshing view, you will have to go through the proverbial mill — 45-degree 
slopes, slippery sands that make it difficult to stay sure-footed and rock labyrinths on the final stage of the hike. 
Nevertheless, after conquering the desert, forest and mountains, washing off waterfalls of sweat in the highest pool 
of Three Sisters will feel like a priceless reward, so do not forget your swimsuit.
But the challenge isn’t over yet. Y ou still have to come back after being totally worn out by the up-and-down trail 
that lies between two mountains. But don’t back out. Rest stops (taking one is not a defeat) and water breaks (grab a 
gallon per person) should successfully allow you to finish the hike with pride. After you are done — keyword “after” 
— complete the experience by reading some intimidating Y elp reviews of this 4.5-star trail to feel like a champion. 
by  Olga Golubkova//Lifestyle Co-Editor3
See  HIKE , page 8
BY   B r i t t n e y  L U 
lifestyle Co-EditorREST AURANT   REVIEW
Brittney  LU   lifestyle@ucsdguardian.orgreaders can contact1
2ILLUSTRATION BY ELYSE YANG
PHOTOS BY KENJI BENNETT /UCSD GUARDIAN8     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 8, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  WEEKEND
HE NAMED MEMALALA
ASCE.UCSD. EDUFor mo re information, contact ASCE at
avpconcerts@ucsd .edu or (858) 534-0 477Thursday, October 8th, 7 PM
AMC La Jolla Theater
FREE for UCSD undergrads with valid ID 
Social
Power
HourSocial
Power
Hour
FREE GAMES, MUSIC, AND FOOD!FREE GAMES, MUSIC, AND FOOD!
FIRST COME, FIRST SERVEd
FIRST COME, FIRST SERVEd
DATE:DATE:
WHEN AND WHEREWHEN AND WHERE
PC COMMUTER
LOUNGE5PMTHURSDAY
OCT. 8 
 New  bermuda
by  Deafhea ven
Release Date Oct. 2
The black-metal/shoegaze/post-rock/whatever 
darlings stretch laterally without compromise. ALBUM   REVIEW
The warmth of the sun can only 
be appreciated in relation to 
the chill of a dark winter night. 
Few bands have exhibited this wisdom 
as well as Deafheaven did on its 
2013 release, “Sunbather. ” A swirling 
combination of soaring and brightly 
atmospheric guitars and harsh black-
metal vocals, the album roared to 
critical success while upsetting some 
of the old-guard of metal.
Its latest release, “New Bermuda, ” 
seems intent at first on dispelling 
any notions that Deafheaven can’t do 
true black metal. The opening song, 
“Brought to the W ater, ” immediately 
launches into a frenzy of blast beats 
and grating minor chords darker than 
anything in the rest of the catalogue. 
But it becomes clear soon enough that 
this isn’t merely a journey back into 
black metal, as the attack of “Brought 
to the W ater” gives way to jangling 
guitars reminiscent of Sixpence None 
The Richer’s “Kiss Me. ”
If “Sunbather” was a careful 
combination of shoegazey post-rock 
and black-metal, “New Bermuda” is 
a jagged beast, intent on stretching 
the band into as many directions 
as it pleases. And it surprisingly 
works, with its interplaying lighter 
sections making its sudden pulls back 
into metal all the more imposing. 
Aggressive sections are also directly 
aided by some unique choices, like the 
use of a wah-wah pedal on the solo of 
“Baby Blue. ”This constant variance also 
complements vocalist George 
Clarke’s lyrical themes. If “Sunbather” 
presented the young yearning and 
uncertainty of the band reaching for 
success, “New Bermuda” deals with 
the aimless continuity of life in success’ 
wake, and its maze of influences deftly 
mirrors this confusion.
This chaos does present a problem, 
though. Except for the song “Luna, ” 
the album never quite settles into itself 
to exert the same type of gravitational 
pull a song like “Dream House” 
did, with its 10-minute-long steady 
build toward ecstasy. And constant 
transitions make the rough edges of 
“New Bermuda” all the more apparent. 
The sloppy piano fadeout of “Brought 
to the W ater, ” and the puzzling ending 
of “Baby Blue, ” featuring traffic 
delays being read over ambient noise, 
exemplify how much the album is 
straining to keep itself together.
Y et when that straining is carefully 
harnessed, few bands can achieve what 
Deafheaven does here. The ability to 
perfectly transition the buzzing guitars 
and shrieks of “Gifts for the Earth” 
into an ending that recalls Oasis’ 
“Champagne Supernova” is not a feat 
to be taken lightly. Y es, New Bermuda 
can get quite messy. But what an 
interesting mess it is.
—   Karl y  nisson
A&E Editor
RIMAC Fields Hike
Difficulty Level: Easy
Life at UCSD can be rough. Have you ever gone to a career fair, only to be told to take a hike?  Does your atten -
tion keep trailing off in Monday lectures? Do you ever feel like there’s nobody rooting for you? Have you felt the 
need to get your life back on track?
Do you ever wonder if there is something more?
There’s a simple resolution. Just east of RIMAC fields lies a set of interconnected pathways spanning the area be -
tween Earl Warren College and Genesee Avenue. Easy to access from across the Hopkins parking structure, this region 
is home to UCSD’s Challenge Course — an impressive edifice of redwood, rope and wire and the Par Course, a fitness 
trail interspersed with drills. Beyond that, one can find a sweeping view of the cacti, eucalypti and shrubs that compose 
UCSD’s wilderness.
Most of the canyon is hard to traverse, but the small maze of available pathways can be ranged in an afternoon. 
During the day, expect a mixture of sun and shade. At night, prepare for spookiness. The paths never leave campus, so 
one can wander without worry of getting lost. While these trails probably won’t satisfy a hiking enthusiast, they’re a 
perfect place to take a few steps to improve your day.
by Adam Fisher//Staff Writer4
▶ HIKE,  from page 7The Guardian’s Guide to Conquering Both Peaks and Creeks
PHOTO BY SHELBY NEWALLIS /UCSD GUARDIANWEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 8, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
To start your transformation, get in touch today. 310.568.2366 or 866.503.5467
GSEPRECRUITMENT PEPPERDINEEDU s GSEPPEPPERDINEEDU5SBOTGPSNUIFMJWFTPGDIJMESFO
with a Master of Arts in Education 
from Pepperdine.
luke’s learning.JNQBDU
Graduate Campuses:
8FTU-PT"OHFMFTt&ODJOP
*SJWOFt8FTUMBLF7JMMBHFTEDI Tritions for Equity Di versity and Inclusion
Consciousne ss of the world a round us is an i nvaluable skill for what ever 
career we pu rsue. The goals of TEDI a re to d evelop student s' critical 
consciousne ss of social justice and equi ty minded leade rship, and to build 
a net work of inclusi ve, equi ty minded s tudent leade rs on campus. The 
program consists of a retreat, with four foll ow-up p rograms, workshops, 
or events selected by the pa rticipant to supplement learning. TEDI is 
co-p resented by UCSD A ssociated Students and the Center for Student 
Involvement, and is open to all UCSD s tudents.
REGI STER N OW for TEDI,
go to http:/ /ccl.ucsd .edu/regist ration/
Question s? Email us at ucsdtedi@gmail .comSatu rday, October 24 • 9:30am-3:30pm
Governance Chambe rs, PC Eas t, level 4
In recent years, the space genre has 
taken off with films like “Gravity” 
and “Interstellar. ” When news 
first came out about “The Martian, ” 
directed by Ridley Scott (“ Alien” , 
“Blade Runner”) and starring Matt 
Damon and Jessica Chastain, there 
were plenty of jokes comparing the 
film to “Interstellar. ” In reality, this 
film is no joke. “The Martian, ” adapted 
by Drew Goddard from the novel by 
Andy Weir, tells the story of astronaut 
Mark W atney. During a Martian 
sandstorm, W atney (Matt Damon), is 
struck by debris. The crew, thinking 
Watney died, leaves Mars. The film  
follows W atney’s lonely struggle for 
survival on Mars and NASA ’s relentless efforts to bring him home. It is difficult 
for a film about isolation and survival 
to be both fun and thrilling, but “The 
Martian” is exactly that.
One of the this film’s best elements 
is its humor. For a story about an 
astronaut stranded on a planet with 
little hope of survival, “The Martian” is 
surprisingly light-hearted and funny. 
Despite his desperation, W atney is 
probably the most optimistic human 
in the universe. Damon plays this 
character brilliantly, bringing a unique 
charm to a realistically portrayed 
astronaut. With that said, the film 
is not all laughs. Early in the film, 
we experience pure Ridley Scott 
suspense as Watney needs to surgically pull shrapnel out of his body. “The 
Martian” is full of real terror and 
desperation. There are moments 
where we see that W atney is near his 
breaking point, and again, Damon 
plays the role to perfection, making 
his best performance in years.
With “The Martian, ” Scott shows 
his mastery as a visual storyteller. At 
times, you will remember that the 
film was not filmed on Mars. Every 
mountain, crater and barren plane 
is convincingly Martian. The open 
landscapes of the Martian terrain 
are sublime and seeing W atney’s 
lone rover in a sea of red Martian 
sand impactfully conveys W atney’s 
isolation, contrasting with the 
astronaut’s humor and optimism. 
The pacing of “The Martian” 
should also be praised. Despite its 
run time, the film neither seems to 
drag nor feel rushed, despite the long 
chronology and complex narrative. 
This is largely due to the fact that the entirety of the film does not take place 
on Mars. The story cuts back and forth 
between W atney, the rest of his crew 
aboard the spaceship Hermes and 
the heads of NASA working on their 
plans to save Watney. The latter two 
elements are in fact very important 
and entertaining parts of the story, 
which make “The Martian” more than 
a simple one-dimensional survival 
film. There was, however, a stretch 
of time which exclusively focused on 
the work of NASA back on Earth. 
Although it was a fascinating part of 
the story, the film slightly lost focus 
during those scenes, since Mars is the 
main setting of the film.
Aside from director Ridley Scott, 
writer Drew Goddard deserves 
incredible praise. The film is not 
only very funny, but dramatic and 
visceral. The latter is a testament to 
the exceptional storytelling, as “The 
Martian” has no villain — just a series 
of realistic circumstances working against both W atney and NASA. 
Goddard’s script manages to perfectly 
balance humor and suspense while 
keeping the focus on the fascinating 
story. The attention to scientific 
accuracy also plays a large role in 
the film. Goddard has stated that he 
wanted the film to be a love letter to 
science. He wrote the script in such 
a way that, even for a layman, the 
technical talk is easy to follow and 
the science of surviving on Mars is 
intriguing. 
“The Martian” was able to take all 
of its unique elements and combine 
them to form a fascinating film. 
Goddard and Scott created a visually 
beautiful film that blends the science-
fiction and survival adventure genres. 
The film succeeds because of its 
performances, sense of humor, smart 
writing and extraordinary visuals.
—   naft ali   burak ovsky 
Staff writerFILM   REVIEW
Directed by  Ridley Scott
Starring   Matt Damon, Jessica Chastain, Chiwetel Ejiofor
Rated PG-13
Release Date Oct. 2Ridley Scott is one steely-eyed missile man.the  martianPHOTO COURTESY OF TWENTIETH CENTURY FOX10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 8, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDS$
Gua rdian Classifieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedsBIKES
Mountain Bike Medium Full Suspension - 
$1199. BERGAMONT big air 6.4, works per -
fectly as new. Only took it for twenty min -
ute ride. I am a small and this is a medium. 
Listing ID: 193696910 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Bike Rack - $40. Bike rack holds three 
bikes for use on most trunks. Listing ID: 
193696909 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Schwinn Meridian - $200. Like new condi -
tion, ready to hit the road. They sell for 
$370 at the stores, save big! Listing ID: 
192722438 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
ELECTRONICS
Chromecast - $30. Works perfectly and I 
would have returned it but I threw the box 
away. Listing ID: 193696978 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more informationSAMSUNG DVD Player - $40. Brand new and 
works perfectly. I would have returned it 
but I lost the receipt. Listing ID: 193696977 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
DSi in complete with case, games, char -
ger - $60. DSi with NEW CANVAS CASE, 
also PLASTIC DS GAME CARTRIDGE CASE 
w/ nine misc. games (Lego Harry Potter, 
Megamind, Nicktoons MLB, Adventure 
Time, StarWars CloneWars, Tony Hawk’s 
Downhill Jam, ThrillVille Off the Rails + 
couple more). CHARGER and stylus includ -
ed (in extra leather zip case). Listing ID: 
193696973 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
FURNITURE
Leaning Ladder Bookcase - $25. Super con -
dition. Listing ID: 193696994 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
Hardwood End Table - $30. Beautiful end 
table - all wood, sturdy, great for in the cor -
ner. Listing ID: 193696992 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more informationStanding Mirror - $25. Black full length 
standing mirror. Listing ID: 193696984 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
t
your vision,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel to 
promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies 
on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.ukLevel: 1234 Level: 1234
SUDOKU
GET INVOLVED!
Join the Associated Students
For mo re info, visit as.ucsd .edu
as.ucsd.edu
asucsd asucsdFirst Year & Transfer Senator
Applications Now Open
& much more... 
DO YOU TWEET? YAY SO DO WE!
@UCSDGua rdian
SOFTRESERVES
An A.S. enterprise that enables professors to disseminate various course mate rials to their students.  These  include course reader s, lab manuals, class notes, sample exam s, homework solutions, etc.
 
858-534-6256
assoftreserv es@ucsd.eduONLI NE SERVICE!
Pre-order your reader online at:
and pick it up at the Student Center softreserves.ucsd.edu
Located on Level 1 at the  Student CenterHOURS OFOPERATION
Mon-Fri:
9am-5pm
Extended hours
til 6pm
Occasional Sat:
10am-2pmSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 8, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
MORE INFO AT SOVAC.UCSD.EDU/REGISTERlooking 
Exciting opportunity to work with the Made T.O. Order division of
Triton Outfitters that specializes in creating customized appar el for
student organizations and departments throughout the campus. intern? APPLY NOW!Ć 6O&,AL ME',A Ć 'E6,*N )A6+,ON 	 %5AN',N* Ć &L,ENT 5ELAT,ON6TO -O,N T5,TON O8T),TTE56¶ NEW ,NTE5N P5O*5AM
&L,&. ON &O8N&,L ! OPEN PO6,T,ON6as.ucsd.eduMen’s Soccer Welcomes Cal State Monterey Bay and SF State
Game Two
The Tritons rebounded from their 
loss on Friday and took a stunning 
last-minute win against reigning West 
Region champion and current CCAA 
leader Cal State Los Angeles on Sunday. 
Though the Golden Eagles came away 
with a 12–8 advantage in shots, a 
spectacular goal by the Tritons in the 
final three minutes of regulation play 
ended the game on a 1–0 UCSD win. 
Junior midfielder Nick Palano volleyed 
a cross from sophomore midfielder 
Zachary Lagotta straight into the back 
of the net in the 88th minute to clinch 
the critical victory for the Tritons.
“That was just a great goal [by 
Palano], ” Pascale commented. “Zach 
[Lagotta] put a deep cross to the far 
post, and Nick [Palano] hit a first-
time volley out of the air back across 
the goal. It was a difficult shot, but 
he had great technique and did 
everything right. ”Despite a last-ditch effort by the 
Golden Eagles to equalize, senior 
forward Herbert Biste’s corner kick 
missed the goal in the game’s final 
seconds.
“We’ve been dealt a couple of tough 
blows, and it was great to see the team 
respond and react and make a great 
play on the road, ” Pascale added. “It 
was pouring rain most of the first half, 
and it was a grind-it-out game all the 
way. I thought we battled them well throughout. ”
Cal State Los Angeles now stands at 
6–2–1 overall and 4–2 in league play, 
dropping a whopping three spots to 
fourth place in the CCAA.
The Tritons will return home to 
host the CCAA third-place team Cal 
State Monterey Bay on Friday, Oct. 9 
at 7 p.m. and San Francisco State on 
Sunday, Oct. 11 at 2 p.m.Tritons to Host Two More Conference Games T his Weekend 
▶ M. SOCCER,  from page 12advantage over the Tritons. UCSD 
saved one match point at 14–11 but 
could not deny Cal Poly Pomona the 
win after a kill from freshman middle 
blocker Kristen Hamlin sealed the deal 
for the away team.
UCSD hit .217 (58–22–166) over 
the game with Cal Poly Pomona 
ending slightly upward of that at .220 
(58–22–164).
UCSD’s junior outside-hitter 
Meagan Wright had 25 kills and 27.0 
points, both match highs and career 
bests for her. Sierks had a team-leading 
10th double-double of the season 
after her 50 assists and 15 digs, while 
McNeely hit an impressive .500 (8–0–
16) and totaled four blocks.“We have many leaders, and we 
all look to each other to pick us up 
when we feel down, ” Sierks said. We 
look forward to keep improving as 
the season goes on and are working 
to mov[e] forward past these three 
heartbreakers. ”
Triton sophomore libero Amanda 
Colla had eight service aces, the most 
for a Triton since Nicole Courtney had 
nine against the same opponent back in 
2006. She had four straight and six total 
during a 10-point run in the beginning 
of the second sets. On top of her eight 
aces, she also had a game-high 23 digs.
“I think to rebound this weekend, 
we need to focus on the positive 
aspects of our team and our team’s 
talents, ” Sierks said. “Just because we have hit a rough patch doesn’t mean 
we are bad players or a bad team. It will 
be important to maintain confidence 
in ourselves and the other 12 girls on 
the team. Playing each match point by 
point will really help us to keep our 
focus during long matches. Because 
our squad is a small, 13-person roster, 
each girl is vital to the success of our 
team. ” 
UCSD has now lost all four of its 
five-set contests in 2015. UCSD hosts 
two CCAA opponents this week, 
Cal State East Bay on Oct. 9 and San 
Francisco State on Oct. 10, with both 
games starting at 7 p.m.▶ W. VOLLEYBALL,  from page 12
readers can contact
marcus thuillier mthuilli@ucsd.edu 
readers can contact
ka tie potts  kpotts@ucsd.edu 
FOLLOW US 
ON TWITTER
@UCSD_SportsPHOTO USED WITH PERMISSION FROM UCSD ATHLETICSSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
MARCUS THUILLIER
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 8, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
week  in
summar y
Freshman forward 
Mary Reilly scored 
four goals in Friday’s 
win against Cal State 
Dominguez Hills, the highest tally 
since former All-American Megan 
Dickey scored four on Sept. 8, 2005. 
Junior outside-hitter 
Meagan Wright had 
27 points in Tuesday’s 
loss, a career high.4
27
MEN'S  SOCCER
WOMEN'S  SOCCERUCSD
UCSDUCSD
UCSDCSU Dominguez Hills
CSU Dominguez HillsCSU Los Angeles
CSU Los Angeles0 - 1
4 - 21 - 0
0 - 1
WOMEN'S
VOLLEYBALL
15 16 27 25 15UCSD
CSU Los Angeles25 25 25 21 12
Mixed Results on the Road 
Tritons beat CSU Dominguez Hills but lose to CSU Los Angeles.
by Daniel Sung // Senior Staff Writer
Coming into the weekend on a two-game win streak, the UCSD 
women’s soccer team split its first conference road games of the 
season, defeating Cal State Dominguez Hills 4 –2 on Friday night with 
the help of a four-goal performance from freshman forward Mary Reilly, 
but suffering a disappointing 1 –0 loss two days later to Cal State Los 
Angeles after giving up a penalty kick at the 74th minute.
Game One 
The Tritons were shorthanded in their frontline 
Friday night as then-reigning CCAA 
Player of the Week sophomore 
forward Katie O’Laughlin and 
her fellow forward, freshman Megumi Barber, were both inactive due to 
the one-game suspension for red cards they received in last week’s hard-
fought victory over Cal State Stanislaus. Freshman midfielder Summer 
Bales got the nod for her first collegiate start as left wing, while redshirt 
junior co-captain Kiera Bocchino shifted back to a forward position.
Reilly’s first goal came unassisted at the 18-minute mark. Just 
13 minutes later, sophomore midfielder Jordyn McNutt assisted 
Reilly for her second goal of the game. Two minutes out of the half, 
Reilly delivered yet again with the hat-trick goal, giving the Tritons a                 
comfortable 3 –0 lead. The last time a Triton scored a hat-trick was Shelby 
Wong, almost four years ago, in a 5-0 landslide against Humboldt State. 
Despite the scoring outburst from Reilly, Head Coach Brian McManus also 
credited the team for giving her the easy looks. 
“You’ve got to give Kiera [Bocchino] a lot of credit up top, ” McManus 
said to the UCSD Athletics Department. “She was holding the ball, 
drawing players and leaving Mary [Reilly] one-on-one a lot of the 
time. When you leave Mary [Reilly] one-on-one in the box, with her 
speed, she’s going to beat you.
The Toros netted two goals themselves, one in the 54th minute and what 
seemed like an impossible goal in the final 14 minutes. However, Reilly 
would strike again with her fourth goal in the 68th to put away the Toros. 
The last Triton to score four goals was Megan Dickey in an 11 –0 home 
trumping of Central W ashington over a decade ago. With the four goals, 
Reilly’s total number of goals in the season now rests at seven, surpassing 
O’Laughlin’s six to lead the Tritons.
“[Associate Head Coach Kristin Jones has] been working with Mary 
[Reilly] to use both feet and get out of the habit of going to the near post so 
much, ” McManus added. “Her first two goals tonight were both left-footed 
to the far post. She had four good goals. ”
Game Two
Two days later, the Tritons traveled to Cal State Los Angeles, where 
they fell to the Golden Eagles 1 –0 in a grind-it-out game. With O’Laughlin 
and Barber back in the lineup after their one-game suspension, the Tritons 
looked to extend their win streak to four.
Coming off her dominating four-goal performance, Reilly struggled 
to find the target as Cal State Los Angeles held her shotless until the 
66th minute. 
The two teams were gridlocked for the majority of the game. In the 
first half, both teams combined took only five total shots. The game 
saw more action after intermission, as UCSD upped its number of shot 
attempts to nine.The 0 –0 tie was finally broken in the 74th minute when a UCSD 
defender was called for an infringement in her own penalty box. Cal 
State Los Angeles’ junior defender Danielle Telles was able to net 
the ensuing penalty kick, giving the Golden Eagles the late 1 –0 lead. 
Telles’ goal marked only the sixth goal of the year for Cal State Los 
Angeles. With a little under 16 minutes remaining, the Tritons had 
three good opportunities to equalize but were unable to convert on 
any of the attempts. 
“In the first half, we played well, ” said McManus. “We could have put the 
game away, but we didn’t. We came out complacent in the second half, bad 
passing, poor decision-making and that led to silly free kicks, corners and 
eventually the penalty kick that decided it. A win today [could have put us 
at] second in the conference; now we’re tied for sixth. ”
Coming out of the weekend, the Tritons are now 3 –3 in conference play 
and 7 –4 overall. UCSD returns to the pitch this weekend at home when it 
faces off against Cal State Monterey Bay (0 –5) on Friday at 4.30 p.m. and 
San Francisco State (2 –1–2) at 11.30 a.m. on Sunday.
The UCSD men’s soccer team 
hit the road this week in two 
California Collegiate Athletic 
Association matchups against Cal 
State Dominguez Hills at Toro 
Stadium and Cal State Los Angeles 
at Jesse Owens Track. Despite 
a disappointing 1–0 loss to Cal 
State Dominguez Hills on Friday 
evening, the Tritons returned with 
a vengeance on Sunday, snatching a 
1–0 win in the final minutes of the 
game against Cal State Los Angeles. 
The Tritons now stand at 4–4–3 
overall and are currently sitting 
in fifth in the CCAA with a 3–2–1 
league record.
Game One
UCSD fell to Cal State 
Dominguez Hills on Friday night, 
marking the first time since the 
2012 season that the Tritons have 
lost two straight matches. Cal State 
Dominguez Hills overwhelmed 
UCSD on offense, dominating the stats with a huge 17–2 advantage 
in shots. Freshman forward Andy 
Sartor and junior midfielder Riley 
Harbour notched the Tritons’ lone 
attempts to score in the 39th and 
74th minutes, respectively, but both 
efforts came up short of success. 
The Toros struck gold in the 62nd 
minute when sophomore midfielder 
Brian Chavez scored off a pass from 
sophomore forward Ali Nazari, 
sealing the Toros’ 1–0 victory.
“It wasn’t as bad as the stats 
made it look, ” UCSD Head Coach 
Jon Pascale told the UCSD Athletics 
Department. “They were the better 
team for sure, but we didn’t play 
well, particularly on offense. We 
gave the ball away far too much, and 
to beat a team like that you have to 
be sharp. We weren’t tonight, and we 
have to be better going forward. ”
The Toros remain undefeated in 
their last nine matches, holding a 
7–1–2 overall record and sitting at 
3–0–2 in league play.WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL
UCSD Struggles Against CCAA Rival
Triton women suffer third straight five-set loss at home against Cal Poly Pomona.
After last week’s two heartbreaking 
losses against Sonoma State and 
Humboldt State, UCSD women’s 
volleyball was back at home, trying 
to end their losing streak. Alas, 
another close five-set game ended 
in a disappointing fashion when the 
Tritons could not capitalize on a two-
sets-to-zero advantage and finally 
lost to CCAA rival Cal Poly Pomona. 
UCSD now occupies the seventh place 
in the CCAA with an even 8–8 overall 
record and an equally even 4–4 league 
record, while Cal Poly Pomona moved 
up to 10–6 and 6–2, good for second in 
the conference.  
UCSD dominated the two first 
frames, hitting an impressive .322 
over the two sets and .379 in the first 
set alone, which led to easy 25–15 and 
25–16 set wins and a commanding 2–0 
advantage heading into the third set. 
However, UCSD’s hitting 
percentage fell back a notch after the 
second set which allowed the Broncos to get back into the game. The Tritons 
only hit .167 in the remaining three 
sets, and the Broncos took the third set 
27–25 and the fourth set 25–21, a set 
in which they hit over .200 for the first 
time in the game.
“I would say the area we can 
improve on the most is our consistency 
with our mental toughness, ” senior 
setter Heidi Sierks told the UCSD 
Guardian. “We have all the talent in 
the world, but we are our own biggest 
enemy. If you ask me, that’s a good problem to have. ”
Cal Poly Pomona would not look 
back after tying the game at two sets 
apiece. The Broncos hit .611 in the final 
set and overwhelmed the Tritons with 
12 kills and only one error in 18 attacks. 
The score was even at 5–5 in the 
fifth set after a kill by sophomore 
middle blocker Alyssa McNeely. The 
Broncos then scored four straight 
points to take an insurmountable 9–5 By   M a r c u s   T h u i l l i e r
Sports Editor
See W. VOLLEYBALL , page 11PHOTO USED WITH PERMISSION FROM UCSD ATHLETICSMEN'S SOCCER
Tritons Go One and One
UCSD takes one against West Region Champ CSULA.
By   K a t i e   P o t t s
Editorial Assistant
See M. SOCCER , page 11M. Water Polo
W. Volleyball
M. Soccer
W. Soccer
Cross Country  10/8
  10/9
  10/9
  10/9
  10/10AT California Baptist
VS CSU East Bay
VS CSU Monterey Bay
VS CSU Monterey Bay
VS Triton ClassicUPCOMING
UCSD
GAMES
PHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE/ UCSD GUARDIAN
readers can contact
Daniel Sung  d2sung@ucsd.edu 