VOLUME 48, ISSUE 54  THURSDAY , MAY 14, 2015 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
PHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
Looking to
BUY A HOME
near UCSD?Look no further... Scan below
for UTClistings
CALL 619-846-5843.....VISIT providentialusa.com
 SMITHSONIAN OF 
THE WEST
BALBOA PARK WASN’T 
ALWAYS A CULTURAL HUB 
FOR MUSEUM-LOVERS AND 
TOURISTS. CHECK OUT THE 
PARK’S PAST LIFE, BEFORE 
THE ART AND EXHIBITIONS.
STUDENT  RIGHTS  DENIED
WEST  REGION  PLA YOFFSadministra tion  a t  f aul t
tritons TO   f ace  Azusa  P acific opinion,  P age   4
sports,  P age  12
MONDAY
H 73 L 57TUESDAY
H 68 L 55
WEDNESDAY
H 67 L 55THURSDAY
H 66 L 55
FORECAST
VERBATIM
DESPITE THIS 
SUCCESS AT 
HOME, THE 
SMOKING 
CULTURE 
STAYS 
STRONG IN SOME COUNTRIES. ” 
-AYAT AMIN & MARCUS 
THUILLIER
ACROSS THE GLOBE  
OPINION , PAGE 4
INSIDE
IRPS NAME CHANGE  ....... 3
NAKED RAGE  .................. 4
ALBUM REVIEWS  ............ 6
SUDOKU  ....................... 10
ROWING  ........................ 12“WEEKEND,  P AGE  7AROUND  CAMPUS
DEA Issues
Suspensions 
to Agents for 
NegligenceSAN DIEGO  
After a UCSD student was 
forgotten in a cell for five 
days, federal officials question 
the agency’s punitive process.
B Y Jacky To 
Editorial Assistant
See DEA , page 3The U.S. Drug Enforcement 
Administration issued suspensions 
and reprimands in March to agents 
responsible for leaving a handcuffed 
UCSD student in a cell for five 
days without food or water. The 
agency suspended its supervisory 
special agent for seven days without 
pay, one special agent for five days 
without pay and delivered letters of 
reprimands to four other agents.
According to ABC 10 News, 
the U.S. Department of Justice 
is concerned that the DEA ’s 
punishments are insufficient and 
that the organization may need to 
revise its disciplinary process.
U.S. Rep. Ted W . Lieu (D-Calif.) 
expressed his disappointment with the 
punishments in a May 6 press release. 
“Four reprimands and two 
short suspensions do not amount 
to justice for Mr. Chong and his 
family, ” Lieu said in the press 
release. “The current DOJ solution 
to this matter — a review of DEA 
internal disciplinary process — is 
simply not good enough. ”
Lieu also announced that he is 
going to send a letter to the DOJ 
requesting that it further investigate 
the DEA and the student’s 
imprisonment itself.
“I will be sending a letter shortly to 
formally request that the Department 
of Justice conduct a full civil rights 
investigation into the apparent denial 
of Mr. Chong’s civil and constitutional 
rights by the DEA, ” Lieu said. “Those 
who perpetrated this abuse must be 
held accountable, and a message must 
be sent that these kinds of actions 
cannot [and] must not happen again. ”
The student’s lawyer, Gene 
Iredale, also thinks the repercussions 
for the agents do not match the pain 
that his client suffered during those 
five days.
“The only thing lacking is 
appropriate accountability. When 
police officers act in a way that’s 
inhumane, grossly reckless [or] 
cause pain and harm and near-death 
to somebody, … it [needs to] be 
Visual Arts Professor Stirs 
Controversy Over Nude Final
UCSD Associate Professor Ricardo Dominguez came 
under fire late last week when the mother of a stu -
dent complained about the nudity requirement for 
his final exam. The mother, who remained anonymous, told 
ABC-affiliate channel 10 news on Friday, May 8, that her 
daughter was forced to get naked or risk failing Dominguez’s 
class, entitled “Visual Arts 104A: Performing the Self. ” Other 
students and faculty later defended Dominguez and his class 
requirements.
Jordan Crandall, chair of the UCSD visual arts depart -
ment, released a statement on Monday detailing the class’s 
requirements. According to Crandall, the course is not 
required for graduation and removing one’s clothing is not 
actually necessary to pass the class.
“There are many ways to perform nudity or nakedness, ” 
Crandall said. “One can ‘be’ nude while being covered. ”
The course, which Dominguez began teaching 11 years 
ago, consists of a number of prompts for various ges -
tures, including “Y our Life: With 3 Objects and 3 Sounds, ” 
“Confessional Self, ” “ Administrative Self, ” “Erotic Self, ” 
“Public Self ” and the “Nude/Naked Self. ”
In an email to the UCSD Guardian, Dominguez pointed 
out that the ambiguity around the question of “nudity” and 
“nakedness” is intentional.
“It is intended to be provocative, to raise issues, ” 
Dominguez said. “That is what performance art does. ”
According to Dominguez, nudity has been and is still a 
core part of performance art from the 20th century to the 
present day. He continued by pointing out that the class is 
an extremely successful one within the field.  
“If students are to learn about performance art as prac -
titioners, this history of the medium is crucial for them to 
experience in a direct way, ” he said.
Shanise Mok, a former student of Dominguez’s who 
took the course in 2012, told the Guardian that students 
knew about the “Nude/Naked Self ” gesture from the very 
beginning.
“For the final, we were told everyone would be physically 
naked or emotionally naked in the same room, ” Mok said. “ And it would be dark — possibly with some candles lit. ” 
She noted that some students did drop the class after the 
first week, but most of them stayed.  Mok also recalled that 
one girl didn’t participate in the physical part of the final but 
did participate by being emotionally naked.
“I personally thought it was a very safe place to bare all, ” 
Mok added.
Lisa Korpos, a senior currently enrolled in Dominguez’s 
class, said in a statement that the course has made her feel 
more connected to her fellow students within the depart -
ment and more confident with her aesthetic choices.
“Professor Dominguez has fostered a very supportive, 
open, safe environment in order for all the artists enrolled 
in his class to genuinely express themselves, ” Korpos said.
She added that she took VIS 2 in which a naked/nude 
gesture was also included with the same stipulations. That 
course is a prerequisite for VIS 104A.
Eleanor Roosevelt College senior Brooke Kesinger, who 
is also currently enrolled in VIS 104A, addressed the con -
cern people have about Dominguez being naked along with 
the students in a statement to the Guardian. 
“This is simply to ‘level the playing field, ’ so to speak, ” 
Kesinger said. “It makes us more comfortable for him to be 
a participant [rather] than an onlooker. ”
Additionally, Carlsbad-based attorney Daniel Watts told 
the Guardian that students who don’t like the curriculum are 
under no obligation to take the course.
“If the students were told in advance what the profes -
sor wants and if the students are legal adults, no law was 
broken, ” Watts said.
Some students are not happy with the content of the 
course. Chair of the College Republicans at UCSD Amanda 
Fitzmorris told Fox and Friends on Tuesday that she didn’t 
understand the purpose of nudity within the course. 
“The only thing I can think of is that being uncomfort -
able is acceptable or normal, ” Fitzmorris responded.  B y  Maria  Sebas    Staff WriteR
Members of cultural associations raise awareness about the Israeli-Palestinian conflict with interactive displays on Library Walk. 
Photo by Nadah Feteih / UCSD Guardian.
ACADEMICS
Maria Sebas  msebas@ucsd.edu readers can contact
2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 14, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG N EWS
AVERAGE CAT By  Christina Carlson
DO Y OU TWEET? WE DO!
@UCSDGuar dian
@UCSDGuardianFOLLOWUS NOW!
...yes, now!
@UCSDGuardian#OMG! Follow us on Twitter #NOW! 
Registration for SPRING Qtr is NOW open!
Register online at 
as.ucsd.edu/saferides
A.S. Safe Rides allows registered undergraduate 
stude nts to get 3 FREE rides per quarter.
Stude nts must register at least 24 hours
prior to their first ride. A.S. Safe Rides 
asucsd asucsdThe Clinical and Translational 
Research Institute at UCSD 
introduced new recruitment plans 
this past month that aim to double 
the amount of clinical trial patients 
within the next few years. 
In the past, UCSD has had 
trouble finding the right amount 
of people in order to conduct 
clinical drug trials. There are two 
main steps being taken: The first is 
creating new information systems 
that will streamline the process of 
finding and matching patients, and 
the second step is finding a way to 
shorten the institute’s Institutional 
Review Board and the Food and 
Drug Administration’s regulatory 
process. This process, which mostly 
involves paperwork, ensures that a trial is ethical by finding any 
conflicts of interest. 
CTRI Director Gary S. Firestein 
told the UCSD Guardian that the 
new processes, such as cutting down 
some of the “red tape” involved 
in processing trials, will help the 
institute find and retain more 
clinical trial patients.
“The first [step] is to streamline 
all the regulatory processes … 
so that instead of it taking many 
months to complete, the goal would 
be to complete them in a month, ” 
Firestein said. “The second would 
be to develop information systems 
that allow us to match patients with 
clinical trials and then allow them 
to decide to participate so that we 
don’t have to rely on word of mouth 
or advertisements to reach them. ”
CTRI conducts a variety of 
clinical drug trials, testing drugs 
that aim to help cancer patients, Alzheimer’s disease patients, 
arthritis patients and many more. 
Because of the variety of trials that 
take place, there is no way for CTRI 
personnel to estimate how long it 
will take for each trial to reach its 
goal number of patients. 
Mark Wallace, who is the 
director of CTRI’s clinical research 
department, explained to the 
Guardian that is difficult to give a 
timeline because there are a number 
of initiatives that the institute is 
working on.
“It is hard to say how long it will 
take. We have several initiatives that 
we are working on in hopes that they 
will be successful, ” Wallace said. 
“Getting the word out and educating 
our community on the importance 
of participating in clinical research 
should help. Without participation, 
there will be delays and possible 
failure to get needed new therapies for our patients. ”
According to Firestein there 
are a lot of problems that clinical 
trials face when it comes to finding 
enough patients to continue with 
a trial. He said that the biggest 
problem is that eligible patients are 
not aware of clinical trials that are 
available to them. Many patients 
who are aware of the trials are also 
either satisfied with their current 
treatment or they are scared of the 
risks associated with such new, 
untested drugs.
Despite the issues that CTRI 
faces with finding clinical trial 
patients, they are currently able to 
conduct about 200 trials per year.SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
Changes include implementing new methods of matching patients to trials and simplifying introductory paperwork.
B Y  Raahima Shoaib
Contributing WriterResearchers Aim to Double Number of  Clinical Trial Patients
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGsee more atRaahima Shoaib  rshoaib@ucsd.edu readers can contact The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and 
Thursdays during the academic year by UCSD students 
and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this 
newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, 
without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2015, all 
rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible 
for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The 
views expressed herein do not necessarily represent 
the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of 
California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is 
funded by advertising. How do kettle chips work?
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.orgBusiness Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Aleksandra Konstantinovic
Andrew E. Huang  
Taylor Sanderson
Tina Butoiu
Kriti Sarin
Cassia Pollock
Marcus Thuillier
Teiko Yakobson
Jacqueline Kim
Kyle Somers
Nilu Karimi
Siddharth Atre
Jonathan Gao
Joselynn Ordaz
Sherman Aline
Elyse Yang
Annie Liu
Rosina Garcia
Jennifer Grundman
Laura Chow
Vincent PhamEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
  
Associate News Editor
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Social Media Coordinator
Training and Development
Page Layout
 Allison Kubo
Distribution
Christopher Graves, Josef Goodyear, Vincent Pham
Copy Readers
Andrew Chao, Caroline Lee, Sage Schubert Christian, Marissa 
Barber, Heejung Lim
Editorial Assistants
Shelby Newallis, Karly Nisson, Mario Attie, Katie Potts,
 Allison Kubo, Jacky Totreated seriously, ” Iredale told ABC 
10 News. 
The DEA apprehended 23-year-
old Daniel Chong and eight others 
at an apartment in University City 
for drug possession on April 21, 
2012. The agency then took seven 
of them to the county jail, released 
one and accidentally left Chong in a 
5-foot-10-inch windowless holding 
cell at the DEA office.
Chong told officials that, during 
those five days, he had to drink his own urine for hydration and 
consumed some powder that he 
found in the cell, which turned out 
to be methamphetamine. By the 
third day, he said that he started 
hallucinating and was “completely 
insane. ” At one point, he broke 
one of the lenses in his glasses and 
attempted to commit suicide by 
slitting his wrists with the shards 
and swallowing them. 
Agents finally discovered Chong 
on April 25, and he was immediately 
hospitalized. Doctors treated him 
for dehydration, near-kidney failure and a perforated lung from eating 
the broken glass. Chong’s attorney 
filed a $20-million claim against the 
DEA but settled for $4.1 million on 
July 30, 2013.
Shortly after Chong’s release, 
A.S. Council passed a resolution 
denouncing the DEA ’s detention of 
Chong and urging the chancellor at 
the time to take a position on the 
issue.N EWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 14, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
Financial Aid Ofﬁ ce 2015–2016
complete and submit your veriﬁ cation worksheet, use the IRS Data Retrieval Tool ,If you have been selected for veriﬁ cation, 
and/or provide other information by the May 21  deadline.
www.fafsa.ed.gov
www.CalDreamAct.org
FINANCIAL AID DEADLINE
MAY 21, 2015 
JUNE 17 , 2014
MAY 1, 2010
GET YOURS.
To be considered  for the best financial aid packag e, yo u must hav e subm itted your FAFSA or Ca lifornia Drea m Act Application by 
March 2 and submit all missing documents and/or  clear all processi ng hold s listed on y our TritonLink Financial Aid checkl ist by the  
May 21st deadline.  Applications completed after the deadlines WILL NOT be considered for University Gran ts, SEOG, Work Study, 
Univers ity or Perkins Loans.   
MAY 21, 2015Looking for the 
New Business 
Column?
Now posted every Wednesday 
night, after the A.S. Council 
meeting, online.
ucsdguardian.orgStudent Left in Cell for Five Days Receives $4.1 Million in Settlement
▶ DEA,  from page 1UCSD officials recently announced 
that the School of International 
Relations and Pacific Studies will be 
renamed the School of Global Policy 
and Strategy this upcoming July. 
The name change will expand the 
focuses of the department by reflecting 
the core mission of teaching global 
strategy and problem solving from the 
private and nonprofit sectors. Along 
with the change of IR/PS to GPS comes 
the change of the school’s Center on 
Emerging and Pacific Economics to 
the Center for Global Transformation 
and the addition of the new Master 
of Public Policy and the Master of 
International Affairs degrees. 
Chancellor Khosla explained that 
the change reflects the desire of the 
department to be more global and 
more inclusive in a university press 
release. 
“The UC San Diego School of 
Global Policy and Strategy is preparing a new generation of leaders who are 
solving complex problems in a diverse 
and interconnected world, ” Khosla 
said. “The name change reflects 
the school’s impact as a premier 
international research institution that 
is at the forefront of international 
research and policy discussions that 
will have an impact for generations 
to come. ”
According to Foreign Policy 
Magazine rankings, the program 
has been a leader in research and 
development of policy in the Pacific 
region since its establishment in 
1986. The IR/PS program at UCSD 
has placed 13th on the magazine’s 
university rankings for academic 
programs in international relations. 
IR/PS Dean Peter Cowhey said 
that the new name of the department 
represents the expansion of the core 
ideals of the school. 
“Change, in the form of 
technological, political and economic 
advances, is in the DNA of our 
teaching and research, ” Cowhey said 
in a press release. “The name ‘School of Global Policy and Strategy’ is a 
fitting representation of the school’s 
trajectory to match the profound 
transformations of our increasingly 
globalized world. ”
This change was sponsored by 
Joan and Irwin Jacobs through their 
Dunaway Foundation, which reserved 
$4 million to reshape the CEPE into 
the CGT. Irwin Jacobs expressed 
his support and enthusiasm for the 
transition in the same press release.  
“Joan and I are thrilled with the 
visionary direction of the School of 
Global Policy and Strategy and its 
mission to address the great challenges 
of our time, ” Jacobs said. “The Center 
for Global Transformation will lead 
inquiry on global economic and 
technological transformation, two 
areas that are of particular interest to 
us. This gift is designed to help the 
center continue to grow as a powerful 
platform for understanding these 
fundamental shifts. ”  UCSD Officials Announce IRPS Name Change
The program will be recognized as the School of Global Policy and Strategy starting July.
B Y   Raahima Shoaib
Contributing WriterEDUCATION
Raahima Shoaib  rshoaib@ucsd.edu readers can contact
Jacky To  j6to@ucsd.edu readers can contact