VOLUME 48, ISSUE 44  THURSDAY , APRIL 9, 2015 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
WE SCREAM FOR 
CAFFEINE
FROM THE BEAN BAR TO LA 
MARQUE, THE UCSD GUARDIAN 
CRAWLS FROM CAFE TO CAFE 
IN SEARCH OF THE PERFECT 
CUP OF COFFEE IN SAN DIEGO. 
READ ABOUT OUR FINDINGS 
AND START YOUR OWN CRAWL.
SUN  GOD  2015  LINEUP
COLLECTING  HARDW ARETHE  PROS  AND  CONS
CAMPUS  SPORTS A W ARDSOPINION,  P age   4
SPORTS,  P age  12
THURSDAY
H 68 L 55FRIDAY
H 67 L 55
SATURDAY
H 68 L 56SUNDAY
H 72 L 57
FORECAST
VERBATIM
GENERALLY, 
AMERICANS 
TEND TO 
FOCUS TOO 
MUCH ON THE 
RANKING OF 
THEIR TOP 
INSTITUTIONS AND ONLY ON 
THE ELITE WHO GO TO THE 
BEST 100 COLLEGES...”
- MARCUS THUILLIER
AYAT AMIN
AROUND THE GLOBE
OPINION , PAGE 4
INSIDE
COMIC  ............................ 2
UCOP TRANSPARENCY  ....4
REVIEWS  ......................... 8
CLASSIFIEDS..................10
WOMEN’S WATER POLO.11“
LIFESTYLE,  P AGE  6
PHOTO BY OLGA GOLUBKOVA / GUARDIANAROUND CAMPUS
This past week, researchers 
from the Scripps Institution of 
Oceanography and the University 
of Delaware’s College of Earth, 
Ocean and Environment recovered 
a missing U.S. Navy aircraft dating 
back to World War II that has been 
missing for over 70 years. The find 
was made possible through their 
collaboration with the BentProp 
Project and the Coral Reef Research 
Foundation. 
The U.S. Navy Curtiss SB2C 
Helldiver was found at a depth of 
100 feet in a lagoon on the island 
country of the Republic of Palau. The Helldiver played a part in Operation 
Stalemate II, a codename for the 
Battle of Peleliu during World War 
II, in which U.S. Marines and Army 
forces clashed with the Japanese to 
capture a strategic airstrip on the 
tiny island.  
Mark Moline, one of the lead 
researchers conducting the search, 
explained to the UCSD Guardian 
the impact such discoveries have for 
the families of missing servicemen. 
“It is important to remember that 
the remains of over 78,000 service 
members never made it home from 
World War II.  That represents 
almost 20 percent of the total 
U.S.-combat losses, ” Moline said. 
“The number of family members 
impacted is even higher and they were never granted closure on these 
losses. ”
The recent find comes at a 
time when emerging undersea 
technologies make such recoveries 
possible. With technologies such as 
state-of-the-art unmanned vehicles 
and sonar equipment, wrecks like 
the Helldiver can more easily be 
acquired.
“The development of technology 
and the methods of applying 
that technology make locating 
these wrecks possible.  While the 
technology itself has been around 
for a decade or so, the particular 
combinations of technologies, the 
search methods and application is UCSA Petitions for Open 
Forum About Tuition Hike
The UC Student Association initi -
ated a petition demanding that UC 
President Napolitano and Gov. Jerry 
Brown publicize their private meetings 
regarding the university and its budget. 
“We call on you to come out of the shad -
ows of the ‘committee of two’ by participat -
ing in a public forum regarding UC costs 
and funding this spring, to be hosted by the 
Associated Students at UC Davis, ” the peti -
tion stated.
Since its conception on March 30, the 
petition has gained nearly 1,000 signatures. 
According to the SF Gate, UCSA hopes to 
collect at least 3,000 signatures and to pres -
ent it to Napolitano and Brown at the next 
UC Board of Regents meeting in late May.
After the Regents approved a 5-per -
cent annual tuition increase over the next five years last November, Napolitano said 
that the state would need to provide the 
University of California with an extra $220 
million to halt the tuition hikes. Brown 
responded by offering $120 million with the 
condition that tuition stay flat. 
To resolve the financial disparity, both 
agreed to hold private meetings to dis -
cuss the matter. UCSA President Jefferson 
Kuoch-Seng argues that the Committee of 
Two’s lack of transparency is preventing UC 
students from being cognizant about their 
own futures. 
“With the Committee of Two’s creation, 
we haven’t heard very much from both 
parties, and their committee reports were 
lackluster, ” Kuoch-Seng told the UCSD 
Guardian. “What the Committee of Two 
discusses is unknown and the fate of what is   B y  JACKY  TO    SENIOR STAFF WRITER 
Scripps Researchers Find Missing WWII Aircraft
Sonar equipment helped locate the dive bomber in the Republic of Palau after 70 years. See  PETITION , page 3
See  AIRCRAFT  page 3UC SYSTEMOVT Set to 
Offer Kosher 
and Halal 
OptionsDINING
The dining hall will start serving 
these options in Fall 2016 
due to a joint effort by Muslim 
and Jewish student groups. 
B Y  Maria Sebas
Staff Writer
See OVT , page 3UCSD will soon become the first 
UC campus to have a kosher and 
halal dining hall. Over a year ago, the 
Muslim Student Association and the 
Union of Jewish Students initiated 
a joint effort to bring new menu 
options to the Oceanview Terrace 
dining hall in the fall of 2016. 
 Eleanor Roosevelt College junior 
and member of the MSA Hibah 
Khan told the UCSD Guardian 
that the two student organizations 
decided to work together because 
they were more likely to achieve 
their goal through a joint initiative. 
“It was recommended that the 
two clubs combine forces because 
it would be unusual that we are 
working together, ” Khan said. “We 
represent a more united effort to 
achieve one common goal. ”
According to Khan, the 
collaboration came about after the 
UJS approached the MSA with the 
idea to renovate OVT. A team of four 
students representing both clubs is 
working with university staff on the 
initiative to renovate the dining hall.
“We have been working with the 
director of [Housing, Dining and 
Hospitality], Mark Cunningham, 
since last year trying to make this 
happen, ” Khan said.
Khan also mentioned that the 
renovations to OVT could include a 
prayer space for Muslim and Jewish 
students.
Zev Hurwitz, executive vice 
president of the Union of Jewish 
Students, explained that the idea 
for a dining hall with kosher and 
halal menu options came from the 
results of a universitywide student 
satisfaction and campus climate 
survey in 2013.
“The Union of Jewish Students 
responded en masse to the Strategic 
Planning Campus Climate Surveys, ” 
Hurwitz told the Guardian. “By 
saying, ‘Hey, we need more kosher 
food on campus. ’”
According to Hurwitz, the 
UJS received a call from Vice 
Chancellor of Student Life Gary 
Ratcliff asking for input on how to 
improve on-campus dining options 
for students who observe dietary 
guidelines for their faiths. Hurwitz 
and the UJS began working with 
Ratcliff ’s office and the MSA to 
mutually advocate for new dining 
options.
The renovation of OVT will 
allow religious students of Jewish 
and Muslim backgrounds to live 
on campus and use their meal 
plans toward hot food, rather than 
packaged meals from the on-campus 
markets.SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY
B Y   andrew  chao
contributing writeRUCEN  REFERENDUM
UCEN  REFERENDUM
$14 
increas e 
in quarterly fees 2.9%
 annual increase
Fall 2016: $90.50
Fall 2017: $93.12 
Fall 2030: $135.04*$17.2 Million
 in needed 
maintenance
 addressed over a 
12 year period
2018 Projected Reserve     
Balance without 
Referendum: -$67,884
2018 Projected Reserve
Balance with Referendum:Projected Quarterly Fees:
 $2,742,1032 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 9, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG N EWS
AVERAGE CAT By Christina Carlson
Registration for SPRING Qtr is NOW open!
Register online at 
as.ucsd.edu/saferides
A.S. Safe Rides allows registered undergraduate 
stude nts to get 3 FREE rides per quarter.
Stude nts must register at least 24 hours
prior to their first ride. A.S. Safe Rides 
asucsd asucsd
#OMG 
#LIKE US
#FOLLOW US
@ucsdguar dianBiology researchers at UCSD 
recently created a new method, 
mutagenic chain reaction, for 
converting heterozygous mutations 
to homozygous mutations in a chain 
reaction. 
This discovery is a leading 
breakthrough as it is an improvement 
in the current technology and 
contradicts the laws of Mendelian 
genetics. According to Mendelian 
genetics, an individual has received 
one copy of most genes from the 
mother and the other copy of most 
genes from the father. In the case 
that an individual inherits a copy 
of a mutated gene and a copy of a 
normal gene, then the individual is 
phenotypically normal but is a carrier 
of the condition. However, when an individual has two copies of a mutated 
gene, they exhibit the condition. 
The researchers, Professor Ethan 
Bier and  Ph.D. student Valentino 
Gantz, recently published their 
findings in Science, detailing 
mutagenic chain reaction. 
Bier explained that, in the past 
few years, there has been a wave in 
genome manipulation where it is now 
possible to manipulate and change the 
genome of an organism.  
“It is now routine to generate 
virtually any change in the genome 
of an organism of choice at will, ” Bier 
said in a press release.
The Clustered Regularly 
Interspaced Short Palindromic 
Repeats is an example of this and was 
used to eliminate HIV from infested 
cells by the Salk Institute. 
However, lead author Gantz said 
that the mutagenic chain reaction is far 
more efficient than the Cas9/CRISPR system since the CRISPR technology 
has to be executed manually on each 
sequence, and the mutagenic chain 
reaction is simply able to duplicate the 
mutation from the chromosome and 
quickly spread it. 
“MCR is remarkably active in all 
cells of the body with one result being 
that such mutations are transmitted 
to offspring via the germline with 
95-percent efficiency, ” Gantz said in 
the press release. “Thus, nearly all 
gametes of an MCR individual carry 
the mutation in contrast to a typical 
mutant carrier in which only half of 
the reproductive cells are mutant. ” 
Bier and Gantz performed the 
experiment on the fruit fly Drosophilia 
melanogaster where they discovered 
that a mutation generated on one copy 
of the chromosome quickly carried 
over to the other corresponding 
chromosome resulting in both copies 
of the gene having the mutation. This new technology can facilitate further 
research into genetic engineering and 
genome manipulation and has the 
potential to eradicate diseases, such 
as malaria, and even fix HIV-infected 
cells or cancer cells. 
Scientists, such as George Church, 
a prominent geneticist from Harvard, 
criticize the study for being a “step 
too far. ” Church and other prominent 
geneticists discussed how the 
technology would allow researchers 
to edit genes in the human germline 
and could result in the spread of 
deleterious mutations to the rest of 
the population.
This study was funded by two 
grants, and a patent has been filed by 
the UCSD Technology Transfer Office 
to license the new technology.SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
New Mutation Technique Could Expedite Genetic Manipulation
Researchers conducted experiments and found that the new techniques could eradicate diseases by fixing infected cells. 
B Y  omkar  Mahajan
contributing WRITER
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGsee more atOmkar  mahajan  omahajan@ucsd.edu readers can contact The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and 
Thursdays during the academic year by UCSD students 
and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this 
newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, 
without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2015, all 
rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible 
for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The 
views expressed herein do not necessarily represent 
the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of 
California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is 
funded by advertising. I love you. And I miss you. Hhhn...
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Aleksandra Konstantinovic
Andrew E. Huang  
Taylor Sanderson
Tina Butoiu
Kriti Sarin
Charu Mehra
Cassia Pollock
Marcus Thuillier
John Story
Teiko Yakobson
Jacqueline Kim
Kyle Somers
Nilu Karimi
Siddharth Atre
Jonathan Gao
Joselynn Ordaz
Sherman Aline
Elyse Yang
Annie Liu
Rosina Garcia
Jennifer Grundman
Laura Chow
Vincent PhamEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
  
Associate News Editor
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Social Media Coordinator
Training and Development
Page Layout
Charu Mehra, Allison Kubo
Distribution
Christopher Graves, Josef Goodyear
Copy Readers
Andrew Chao, Caroline Lee, Sage Christian, Marissa Barber, 
Heejung Lim
Editorial Assistants
Shelby Newallis, Karly Nisson, Mario Attieonly recent, ” Moline explained.  
Due to the staggering number of 
servicemen still listed as MIA, Moline’s 
team hopes to better facilitate future 
searches. 
“The team’s goals are to increase 
the efficiency in finding these wreck 
sites and servicemen, ” Moline said. 
“This will take efforts in technology 
research and development, adapting 
and maturing [technological] 
developments, blending intelligence 
with search approaches, as well as 
scaling up the entire process to be able to address losses not only in the 
Western Pacific, but [in] Europe, 
Africa, et cetera. ”
The team received funding 
support from the U.S. Office of 
Naval Research, which seeks to use 
cutting-edge undersea technology to 
recover lost aircraft associated with 
servicemen who have been listed as 
MIA for decades. In addition, Moline’s 
work translates well into current 
problems. Through such pioneering 
efforts, search-and-rescue missions 
and finding shipping accidents can 
be better facilitated.  Salvaging these 
aircrafts may bring closure to the families of lost loved ones. 
“While the generation that fought 
the war ages, the following generations 
still feel the emptiness of not knowing 
what happened to their relatives, ” 
Moline said. “From the wreckages we 
find, the sacrifices made for us by these 
young men [over] 70 years ago become 
crystal clear, and that is something that 
we as individuals and a nation need to 
acknowledge and remember. ”
In addition to the Helldiver, five 
other aircrafts are on the expedition’s Hurwitz described to the 
Guardian the difficulty he had 
during his freshman year finding 
kosher food on campus.
“There were very few things I 
could find in the dining halls that 
were kosher, ” Hurwitz said. “So I 
ended up eating a lot of salad during 
my freshman year. ”
Both halal and kosher dietary 
restrictions involve a specific process 
in which an animal is slaughtered. Those who observe halal and kosher 
dietary restrictions also don’t eat 
pork. 
By the end of Hurwitz’s freshman 
year, the markets started selling pre-
packaged kosher food.
“But that isn’t sufficient for 
someone’s entire diet, ” Hurwitz said, 
adding that the price of food at the 
markets is more expensive than at 
the dining halls.
Hurwitz isn’t the only student to 
be deterred from living on campus 
due to the lack of kosher and halal food options.
“I would say that there are a good 
number of Jewish- and Muslim-
observant students on campus who 
choose not to live on campus simply 
because they would have to buy 
into the dining dollars program and 
don’t have an applicable use for it, ” 
Hurwitz said. 
HDH could not be reached for 
comment by press time. in store for the UC [system] is with -
held to only President Napolitano 
and Gov. Brown. ”
UC Davis students previously 
invited the two to meet for a public 
forum on their campus on April 1. 
Napolitano sent a letter on March 
17 declining their invitation due to 
“previous commitments. ”
Kuoch-Seng told the Guardian 
that they hope the petition will urge Napolitano and Brown into eventu -
ally holding a public forum.
“Since they both had prior com -
mitments, they were unable to com -
mit to our request, ” Kuoch-Seng 
said. “We then sought out to make 
an effort to pressure, by using the 
petition to show how many indi -
viduals support the event, the two to 
commit to attending the event on a 
date that would work best. ”
When the Guardian asked the 
UC Office of the President how Napolitano would respond to the 
petition, media specialist Shelly 
Meron stated that she had already 
declined UC Davis’ invitation. 
However, Meron referenced the 
March 17 letter, which Napolitano 
sent before the UCSA published 
their petition.N EWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 9, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
“Committee of  Two” Declined UC Davis’ Invitation to Open Forum
▶ PETITION,  from page 1
Hurwitz: Lack of  Options Deterred Students From Living on Campus
▶ OVT, from page 1
Researchers Hope to Locate Other Lost Aircraft of  MIA Servicemen
▶ AIRCRAFT  from page 1Looking for the 
New Business 
Column?
Now posted every Wednesday 
night, after the A.S. Council 
meeting, online.
ucsdguardian.orgJACKY TO  J6TO@ucsd.edu readers can contact
Maria  sebas  msebas@ucsd.edu readers can contact
Andrew  Chao  avchao@ucsd.edu readers can contact4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 26, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CHARU  MEHRA
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Like most students, we on the UCSD 
Guardian Editorial Board have been 
abuzz about the announcement of the Sun 
God Festival lineup, which includes headliner 
Snoop Dogg, OK Go, Jhene Aiko and STRFKR. 
A.S. Concerts and Events has delivered on its 
promise of a household name, and we would 
like to recognize it for a job well done.
As the Guardian Editorial Board, however, 
we feel like our job isn’t complete until we find 
something to nitpick, so as a caveat to our 
congratulations, we would like to point out just 
a couple of things, some that were well-done, 
but some that need a little more work. 
First, inviting Aiko, who is not yet a 
household name but steadily becoming one, is 
one of the best moves ASCE could have made. 
She provides a fresh, female balance to Snoop 
and rounds out the festival lineup as a mix of music to appeal to a wide range of students.
Aiko’s appearance, however, brings to light 
the underrepresentation of solo-female artists 
who have performed at Sun God Festivals in 
the past. Last year, DJ Anna Lunoe was the 
only solo-female artist to perform, compared 
to the seven solo-male artists. In 2013, the 
news was even worse, with seven male artists 
and not one solo-female artist. This is not at all 
representative of the music industry in today’s 
times, when the Billboard Top 100 have a fairly 
equal split between male and female artists. In 
fact, last fall, five solo-female artists occupied 
the Billboard top spots for six weeks, for the 
first time in the institution’s 56-year history. 
With that much success from female artists, we 
would want to see them better represented in 
the Sun God Festival lineup. 
Regardless, we give massive props to ASCE 
See SUN GOD, page 5Sun God, Reborn
The UCSD Guardian’s Editorial Board weighs in on the many changes being 
implemented this year, including a smaller lineup and a no-reentry policy. EDITORIALS
Aleksandra Konstantinovic
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Andrew E. Huang
MANAGING EDITOR
Taylor Sanderson
MANAGING EDITOR  
Charu Mehra
OPINION EDITOR
Cassia Pollock
ASSOCIATE OPINION EDITOR
Tina Butoiu
NEWS EDITOR
Kriti Sarin
ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITOR
Marcus Thuillier
SPORTS EDITOR
The UCSD Guardian is published twice weekly at the 
University of California at San Diego. Contents © 2014. 
Views expressed herein represent the majority vote of the edi -
torial board and are not necessarily those of the UC Board of 
Regents, the ASUCSD or the members of the Guardian staff. EDITORIAL  BOARD
The UC Student Association recently cre -
ated a petition demanding transparency from 
California Gov. Brown and UC President Janet 
Napolitano through publicizing their monetary 
negotiations for the University of California. 
Since forming the exclusive “committee of two” 
in January, Napolitano and Brown have been 
meeting privately to discuss the costs of the 
UC system, among other issues. The decisions 
being made behind closed doors will affect stu -
dents the most, which is why UCSA is fighting 
to make that information public. This petition 
asserts that all California voters deserve to 
be aware of Napolitano and Brown’s meeting 
plans, and already has over 1,000 signatures 
from students across the UC campuses.
Last month, Napolitano told  Bruce Varner, 
chairman of the Board of Regents, that the 
protests being held during the first day of 
the regents’ meeting were “crap” which dem -
onstrates Napolitano’s blatant disregard for student voices. However, Napolitano may have 
a chance at repairing the UC Office of the 
President’s relationship with students if the 
open forum is created. The idea of the “com -
mittee of two” is exclusionary. Napolitano and 
Brown hold the purse strings, yet their de facto 
committee removes students from the process. 
However, UCSA ’s commitment to influencing 
leaders may inevitably have some effect.
In addition to asking that the meetings’ 
be publicized, UCSA believes that students 
deserve to play active roles in the decision-
making process. If the petition succeeds in 
convincing Napolitano and Brown to hold an 
open forum at UC Davis, students would have 
an opportunity to express their thoughts and be 
heard for once. Fortunately, students do have 
advocates in some state legislators.
Following the tuition hike announcement, 
lawmakers, including Speaker of the Assembly 
Rep. Toni Atkins (D-San Diego), expressed began crafting legislation to counteract and 
prevent the hike. Most recently, Sen. Marty 
Block (D-San Diego) co-authored Senate Bill 
15, which increases the maximum amount of 
funding allocated to Cal Grants A and B. 
If UCOP fails to become more transparent, 
the University of California may lose the very 
autonomy it utilizes to justify not adhering 
to state regulatory practices. Last February, 
several state senators proposed an amend -
ment that would give the state control over the              
UC system. 
Whether or not the state’s control would 
benefit students is debatable, but decisions 
will be made and a cost will be paid by all par -
ties involved. Decisions made under pressure 
and uncertain circumstances will likely harm 
all parties involved, especially students. Thus, 
information and clarity is imperative to sustain 
the future of the UC system and therefore the 
future of students. Napolitano Should Heed UCSA Petition and Increase TransparencyWe like to pretend that 
the United States’ edu -
cational system is the 
best in the world, at least in the 
domain of higher education, since 
so many of its institutions are at the 
top of all kinds of university rank -
ings. However, the Pearson ranking 
that assesses the global strength 
of the education system (cognitive 
skills and educational attainment) 
places the United States at a sur -
prisingly low rank of 14. Ranked 
higher than our country’s system 
are multiple European systems 
in Finland, the United Kingdom, 
the Netherlands, Ireland, Poland, 
Denmark, Germany and Russia. 
This is a strange position to be in 
for the “best educational system in 
the world. ”
A 2014 report by the OECD 
states that in 2012, only a dismal 39 
percent of young Americans were 
expected to graduate from college. 
In 1995, 33 percent was all the U.S. 
needed to rank first, but now, 39 
percent only gets the United States 
a 19 out of the 28 places. Generally, 
Americans tend to focus too much 
on the rankings of their top institu -
tions and the elite who go to the 
best 100 colleges, which leads them 
to completely ignore the deeper 
issues linked to mass education in 
the U.S.
The federal education budget 
project reports that in 2014, only 
6 percent of the $1.1 trillion in 
total appropriations funding across 
all federal agencies that year were 
given to education in the U.S. 
Another important note from this 
project is that defense and home -
land security took up more than 50 
percent of that funding. 
In Europe, even though the sys -
tem is not perfect, different systems 
have been tried out and have pro -
vided conclusive results. Finland 
suppressed grades and Germany 
made every higher-education uni -
versity in the country free from 
tuition, putting a lot less stress on 
students’ shoulders. Those two 
countries are higher ranked than 
the U.S. in the Pearson rankings. 
Also, despite the importance we 
put on secondary education, many 
European countries like France 
value a good high school education 
as a universal goal, something the 
U.S. lacks, which produces more 
well-rounded students coming out 
of high school. 
Even so, everything is not 
completely bleak for the U.S. In 
recent years, efforts have been 
made to make education more 
affordable and accessible for stu -
dents. Stanford University recently 
increased the ceiling for its finan -
cial aid, helping more families 
obtain free tuition to attend the 
prestigious school. Our own Rep. 
Scott Peters is trying to pass a bill 
to better help students repay their 
student loans with their employers.
Sadly, even with this progress, 
just the simple name “financial aid” 
means we have to pay for an educa -
tion that should be accessible to 
all. In a developed country like the 
U.S., it is scary that we are so far 
behind in giving a valued education 
to everyone. Education here is a 
business, and just like many busi -
nesses in the U.S., it is leaving a lot 
of people behind.The U.S. 
Education
System 
Needs Work
Marcus thuillier//
A y a t amin 
opinion@ucsdguardian.orgAcross the globe
4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 9, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINIONOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 26, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5 OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 9, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
for inviting Aiko, as well as female 
artists in the past. We hope that 
this is, in the words of a recent 
Billboard article, a movement, not 
a moment, for Sun God Festivals in 
the future. 
We would also like to bring up 
something that has been gently 
mocked on social media, which 
is that in the year that the Sun 
God Task Force emphasized the 
importance of drug and alcohol 
safety, they brought in Snoop 
Dogg, an icon of drug use (mostly 
marijuana), as the primary 
headliner for the festival. In our 
interview, ASCE’s Seraphin Raya 
told us that the organization believes that Snoop Dogg doesn’t 
promote the kind of excessive or 
dangerous drug use that has sent 
UCSD students to the hospital. 
In fact, much of the festival this 
year seems to indicate a shift in 
the administration’s attitude from 
punishing drug and alcohol use to 
promoting its responsible use. In 
addition to the new beer garden 
for students 21 and older, the video 
students watch before they can 
register for tickets emphasizes that 
students can and should seek help for 
possible overdoses without fearing 
repercussions. Even more of a change, 
the video asks students who do 
intend to do drugs to use drug-safety 
kits to test the purity and safety of 
their drugs. While we can’t predict what kind of results this approach 
will create, we applaud ASCE and 
the UCSD administration for taking 
a reasonable approach to the issue, 
as opposed to their usual policy of 
denying and ignoring that drugs and 
alcohol are bound to be used at a 
festival of this size and notoriety. 
Despite the initial outcry over 
the changes to Sun God Festival, 
students seem to be settling in as 
the date approaches, and we’re 
excited to see how the festival 
evolves. If the idea is to shift the 
atmosphere of the festival, ASCE 
has definitely made major strides 
to that effect. On our wish list for 
next year is more representation of 
female artists and perhaps a more 
feasible re-entrance policy. 2015 Sun God Festival is Representative of  Improved ASCE Approach
▶ SUN GOD,  from page 4GOT ISSUES?
SEND YOUR 
LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Real Student Journalism.
The Guardian
Info Session - Free Food!
Thursday, April 9th at 6 p.m.
Find us on the 2nd Floor of 
the Old Student Center
www.ucsdguardian.org/jobs
Join our award-winning staff today!6
A&E EDITOR // JACQUELINE KIM 
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
ARTS | FOOD & DRINK | MOVIES & TV | MUSIC | THINGS TO DOWEEKENDLIFESTYLE EDITOR // NILU KARIMI 
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
ART EDITOR // ELYSE YANG
ART@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Coffee Shop Crawl
 As the craft-beer capital of America, San Diego is home to countless breweries. The variety is so impressive that it boggles the minds 
of even the most experienced beer fans. It’s no surprise that pub-crawling — the age-old tradition of hitting up multiple pubs or bars 
in a single night as an excuse to gather with friends and get dead drunk — has successfully taken root in the city. However, sometimes 
excessive drinking comes across as a bad idea the morning after. Have a job interview the next day? Being healthy finally became your 
thing? Simply underage? If not alcohol, then what?
 
In San Diego, the rule is if you say no to beer, you say yes to coffee. So how about a coffee-shop crawl? Moving between coffee shops 
is not only a great way to try many drinks in one day, but it’s also a chance to show off your coffee-connoisseur self by comparing 
cappuccinos and pour-over coffee left and right. A coffee-shop crawl is a great way to hang out with someone new; it helps spark 
conversations and avoid awkward silences. 
I should confess I have even tested coffee-shop crawling as an idea for a Tinder date, and it turned out to be a very positive experience, not only 
because being on the move allowed us to maintain a pleasant conversation, but also because coffee crawling is a morning activity, which makes 
a meeting with a stranger safe. Like pub crawls, coffee-shop crawls turn out best if planned with the right combination of forethought and room 
for improvisation, so here are some options for your next coffee run.
the bean bar
HOURS:
Monday to Saturday: 7 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Sunday: 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.LOCATION:
1068 K St.
San Diego, CA 92101
AVERAGE PRICE FOR A DRINK : $3.50
PERKS : Fresh pastries and cute baristas
This newbie among coffee shops opened just five months ago. That 
being said, the owners and baristas, Sandra and Jason, have been in the 
coffee industry for quite a long time. Their wisdom isn’t hard to notice, 
considering The Bean Bar’s pour-over coffee and espresso are of undeniably 
high quality. While severe competition among San Diego coffee shops makes 
it hard for any new coffee place to stand out, you will definitely remember The 
Bean Bar’s unique ability to combine smooth flavor and rich aroma in all its 
drinks. The dreamy, light interior of this downtown location is full of sky-blue 
decorations that complement the pleasant milkiness of its drinks. Light, sunny 
and friendly, The Bean Bar is a great place to start your coffee-shop crawl.
la marque
HOURS:
Monday to Thursday: 7 a.m. to 8 p.m.
Friday to Saturday: 7 a.m. to 10 p.m.
Sunday: 8 a.m. to 8 p.mLOCATION:
3590 5th Ave.
San Diego, CA 92103AVERAGE PRICE FOR A DRINK : $3.75
PERKS : Long opening hours, monthly 
specials.
La Marque is not just a coffee shop — it is a secret (shhh!) portal to Europe. The coffeehouse 
features two separate menus: one caffeinated and one non-caffeinated. The former is based on 
the Italian tradition of espresso drinks, while the latter includes truly European sparkling water 
— with all flavors of San Pellegrino and Acqua Panna. Another distinctive feature of La Marque is its 
variety of coffee brands. Here, you can try coffee made from either local or world-famous bean brands such 
as Intelligentsia, Bird Rock Coffee, Cafe Moto, Lavazza and many others. Like Bean Bar, La Marque is a new addition to San 
Diego’s coffee family, but La Marque’s ambitions are anything but humble. The owners plan on adding beer and an extensive 
assortment of food to the menu. Soon, this coffeehouse will turn into a full-blown restaurant, so crawl there before it’s too late.Compiled By & Photos By  Olga Golubkova  Staff Writer
ART BY ANNIE LIUWEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 9, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
JOIN THE
CONVERSATION
staywithme.ucsd.eduWIN SHARE
a free shirt or tank.
Winner chosen daily.   
staywithmeucsdDarkhorse coffee roasters
HOURS:
Monday to Friday: 6:30 a.m. to 6:30 p.m.
Saturday to Sunday: 7 a.m. to 7 p.m.LOCATION:
3260 Adams Ave. &
3794 30th St.
San Diego 92116AVERAGE PRICE FOR A DRINK : $3
PERKS : Pour-over coffee for every day of 
the week.
Dark Horse Coffee Roasters: a small coffee-shop chain with locations 
in San Diego and Truckee (a small mountain town in Nevada 
County, California!) values simplicity and quality over experiments 
and excessive originality. Dark Horse baristas do not use anything but black 
coffee and milk in their drinks because they believe that nothing can make 
good coffee better. This approach is undoubtedly worthy of respect, but can 
still disappoint caramel syrup fans and those who simply love variety. Dark 
Horse’s interior is as simple as its drinks and is covered in wooden surfaces 
and small black chalkboards. The coffee shop itself is also very compact, 
which makes it a good spot to grab a coffee and go rather than a place 
where you would want to sit for hours chatting with your friends. This, 
however, is a great motivation to walk around the neighborhood, coffee in 
hand, looking for a new coffeehouse to stop by.
improvise!
Coffee-shop crawling is a great way to explore locations you 
have heard about before, but it is an even better way to find 
little coffee shops that none of your friends know about. While 
walking around, keep searching for new places because you might be 
lucky enough to discover your new favorite coffeehouse. ratings
The Bean Bar
La Marque
Darkhorse Coffee Roasters  
ART BY ANNIE LIU8     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 9, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
 VOTE ON TRIT ONLINK.UCSD.EDU THRU FRIDAY, 4pm
 ELECTION RESULTS AT ROUND TABLE PIZZA, 4/10, 5:30pm
FOR MORE IMF ORMA TION, VISIT AS.UCSD.EDU/ELEC TIONS
OR C ONTACT ASELEC TIONS@UCSD.EDU
Consider a vulnerable wom -
an in the Victorian era of 
England, living a lonely life 
with a cold husband, while her own 
family in Scotland is only reach -
able through letters. How would 
she react to such a miserable life? 
Oscar-winner Emma Thompson, 
intrigued by the famous uncon -
summated marriage between the 
art critic John Ruskin and his teen -
aged wife Effie Gray, presents a film 
that tells this disputable story from a feminist and subjective stand -
point. Gorgeous in the sceneries 
and costumes, “Effie Gray” provides 
an alternative explanation for the 
oddness of the marriage and espe -
cially Ruskin himself, who has been 
considered a mystery for centuries. 
Effie (Dakota Fanning), a 
19-year-old girl from Scotland, be -
gins to have a suppressed life in her 
new home in London, as John (Greg 
Wise) fails to give Effie enough love 
and attention. The situation is wors -ened by the fact that John refuses to 
consummate their marriage. When 
the Ruskin couple heads to Scotland, 
along with one of the Pre-Raphael -
ites, Everett Millais (Tom Sturridge), 
who is going to paint John’s portrait 
there, the trip becomes the catalyst of 
the mutual attachment between Effie 
and Everett. Back in London, Effie 
decides to take control of her own 
life and consults her only trusted 
companion, Lady Eastlake (Emma 
Thompson), regarding the possibili -
ty of the annulment of her marriage.
“Effie Gray” is visually enjoy -
able as a well-produced period film. 
Its captivation lies in the beautiful 
countryside sceneries of Scotland 
and the fabulous costume design. 
The exquisite cast easily attracts 
the audience, and their penetrat -
ing acting is no disappointment. Moreover, Thompson has written 
the screenplay in an appropriate 
language that is subtle and impli -
cative, which suits the historical 
context of the Victorian period. 
Y et, the film can be too subjec -
tive, as it accentuates the heroine as 
a pure victim surrounded by manip -
ulative and selfish elders, with the 
exception of Lady Eastlake, and as 
a perfect young woman, who could 
be idealized. Throughout the film, 
there is no one single fault that can 
be found on the heroine, though she 
looks endlessly sorrowful, ill and 
even confused. Contrarily, the film 
has made Ruskin an absolute villain 
who is cold, cruel and contemptible, 
while in real life he was also a suc -
cessful social thinker and philan -
thropist. “Effie Gray” suggests that 
the essential reason why Ruskin is behaving in a queer way comes from 
his intimidating parents’ aggres -
sive education. Nevertheless, reality 
could be much more complicated 
than this story that Thompson intro -
duces to us. Instead of discussing the 
reactions of the society to the event, 
she simply approaches the matter 
from Effie’s psychological point of 
view and underscores the female 
vulnerability of the time as a whole.
Despite the depressing and emo -
tional atmosphere the film creates, 
there are jocular moments of come -
dies from time to time. But if you find 
slow-paced movies oppressive, you 
might think these 108 minutes in the 
theater extremely long and tedious.
—    Yidian   Huang
contributing WRITErFILM   REVIEW
Directed by  Richard Laxton
Starring   Dakota Fanning, Emma Thompson, Greg Wise, Tom Sturridge
Rated PG-13
Release Date April 3The famous triangular love affair in Victorian England 
comes to life with Thompson’s controversial script.effie  gra yPHOTO COURTESY OF ACESHOWBIZWEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 9, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
    “Raw ﬁnesse, unique beauty, and power.”
- EDINBURGH FESTIVAL 
STUDENT TICKETS $12  C ALL  858.534.TIXS [8497] or VISIT ARTPWR.COMwednesday, February 18, 2015 / 8pmMANDEVILLE AUDITORIUM
 
ARTPOWER!
AT UC SAN DIEGO
   APRIL 30 - MA Y 3
PRESENTING S PONSOR: QU ALCOMM IN STITUTE
/f_ilmaticfestival.comTHE ART OF SCIEN CE AN D CIN EMA
FREE FRIDAY PASS FOR ALL UCSD 
& SAN DIEGO STUDENTS WITH ID1-DAY PASS: $12 
4-DAY PASS: $30
effie  gra y
Great Maple is always busy 
and lively. The fast-paced 
servers, in their jubilant 
green t-shirts and chic aprons, 
are constantly travelling from one 
side of the restaurant to the other. 
Making a reservation in advance, 
then, is well advised!
As implied in the name, 
Great Maple is known for its 
maple-infused dishes. The Maple 
Doughnuts, three per dish, are 
intended to serve adventurous and 
sweet-toothed customers well. The 
interesting combination of sweet 
maple and bacon bits will bring 
you a new sensation — but don’t 
overdo it. Sharing a doughnut will 
work like a charm; half a doughnut 
is guaranteed to satisfy your taste buds and leave you with a sweet 
memory. 
Johnny’s Silver Dollar Pancakes 
($9.95) is a daytime dish consist -
ing of eight miniature pancakes 
— another example of how Great 
Maple introduces the spirit of 
sharing to its cuisine. This stack 
of pancakes is accompanied by 
butter, powdered sugar and rich         
maple syrup.  
Great Maple has more than just 
these sweet and traditional brunch 
items. The House Beef Brisket 
Hash ($18) is too sophisticated to 
bore you. This bowl brings with 
it a party of its own, containing 
the most diverse yet harmoni -
ous elements. Let’s see what’s in 
there: tender, slow-smoked beef brisket, plump Pee Wee potatoes, 
appetizing onions, crunchy bacon, 
fresh and bright cherry tomatoes, 
charred kale and last but not least, 
two poached eggs with a slice of 
grilled bread that will surely sharp -
en the dish however you choose to 
make use of them. 
Gold and green are Great 
Maple’s colors — energetic, sunny, 
fresh and pleasant. The ambience is 
so brisk and lively that no customer 
could walk out of there feeling 
gloomy. This is definitely a restau -
rant worth checking out.
—    Yulin   Liu 
staff WRITEr
HOURS:
Brunch:  8 a.m. to 2 p.m. on weekdays; 8 a.m. 
to 2:30 p.m. on weekends
Dinner: 5 p.m. to 9 p.m. on Sundays through 
Thursdays, 5 p.m. to 10 p.m. on Fridays and 
SaturdaysLOCATION:
1451 Washington St.
San Diego, CA 92103
REST AURANT   REVIEWPHOTO BY MATTHIAS SCHEER/ UCSDGUARDIAN
Kintsugi
by  Dea th  cab  for  cutie
Release Date March 27
Seattle-based indie rockers revive stale song -
writing in their latest bout of melancholy.ALBUM   REVIEW
For Death Cab for Cutie, com -
ing up with an album title 
must’ve been tricky. After all, 
the title of an LP determines whether 
it’s destined for platinum sales or that 
dark, dusty corner in the back of the 
record shop — right? Shouldn’t it sub -
tly reference an overarching theme 
through a complex metaphor or, at 
the very least, convey an ironic mock -
ery of societal flaws? 
Nah, if that were the case, there 
wouldn’t be so many self-titled non-
debuts and albums denoted by what 
must’ve been arbitrary afterthoughts to 
museum-worthy cover art. Y et, Death 
Cab for Cutie’s latest release, “Kintsugi, ” 
is no product of negligence; its apt title 
captures the essence of a record that 
must recover the clever songwriting of 
earlier releases and yet make the band’s 
characteristic sound seem new.
Kintsugi is a Japanese art move -
ment in which shattered ceramics are 
put back together with gold-dusted lac -
quer. The album isn’t gold — it’s silver 
at best — but it does manage to fuse 
together the shards of the band’s col -
lapsed relationships in a safe transition 
from the personal accounts of earlier 
releases to more distant ones. Though 
you’ d expect the opposite from a band 
whose frontman, Ben Gibbard, just 
underwent a very public divorce and 
whose producer and guitarist, Chris 
Walla, recently left the band, its eighth 
LP relies on the stories of others to con -
vey the intimate details of recovery.Unabashed break-up tune “No 
Room in Frame” is an unfortunately 
tedious opening to the album; on it, 
Gibbard sings, “I don’t know where to 
begin/ There’s too many things that I 
can’t remember, ” in an obviously beat-
driven acknowledgement of Kintsugi. 
The mood shifts with “Black Sun, ” a 
forgettable single directed at any alter -
native-pop junkie looking for a dark 
but catchy hit with Two Door Cinema 
Club undertones.
Tracks “Y ou’ve Haunted Me All 
My Life” and “Hold No Guns” recall 
the simple guitar arrangements and 
intelligent songwriting of 2005 hit “I 
Will Follow Y ou into the Dark, ” and 
both boast the most evocative vocals 
on the album. But the album’s big -
gest step forward is “Good Help (Is so 
Hard to Find), ” an unexpected ‘80s pop 
homage with riffs reminiscent of The 
1975’s “Girls” and a sustained contrast 
between smooth vocals and snarky ex -
plorations of celebrity life. 
Though the album takes few risks 
and the tracks grow tiring by the end of 
the album as a result, “Kintsugi” does 
just what its title suggests. Its songs 
reclaim the elements that won Death 
Cab for Cutie its indie rock fame — re -
latable melancholy, smart writing and 
reverberating guitars — and show the 
band regaining its footing after the loss 
of Walla. 
—    Karl y  nisson
 A&E Editorial assistant
$$10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 9, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
CLASSIFIEDS$
Guar dian Classi/f_ieds ar e FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifieds
BIKES
Kidz Tandem - $1000. Kidz Tandem from 
Brown Cycles of Grand Junction, CO. Great 
bike for enjoying cycling with your kid. 
Child sits up front to see clearly while 
parent steers from the back via a linkage. 
Looking to pass along this great bike to 
another cycling family. Solid components, 
but nothing fancy. Listing ID: 137774690 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
$999 Electric Beach Cruiser e+ Electric Bike 
- Originally purchased for $3495 plus tax. 
Less than 185 miles as shown on the odom -
eter. This a very clean bike that needs to go 
to a loving home. 20-40 miles per charge, 
up to 25 mph without pedaling. Includes 
digital readout/gauge, auto shutoff with 
brakes, seven speeds, 19 levels of power 
assist and cruise control. This bike was 
rarely ridden, well taken cre of, comes com -
plete with charger. Listing ID: 137774689 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Hello Kitty Scooter - $7. I am selling a girls 
pink Razor scooter. It has Hello Kitty on it. 
Listing ID: 137774687 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
ELECTRONICS
Sony Compact System Camera - $380. Sony 
NEX-5TL/S Compact Interchangeable Lens 
Digital Camera with 16-50mm Power Zoom 
Lens. DSLR-quality in about half the size 
and weight. This camera is in mint/excel -
lent condition, nothing missing and still 
in the original box. Listing ID: 137774735 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Analog Cannon EOS Rebel X Camera and 
Flash Trax Smart Disk - $120. The camera 
alone retails for around $300 and the Flash 
Trax is in good working condition and 
retails for $250. Travel bag included. Listing 
ID: 137774738 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
Lensbaby Composer and Extras - $275. 
Lensbaby Composer, Canon Mount Single 
Glass Optic, Double Glass Optic, 0.42 Super 
Wide Angle and Macro Lens Kit. Terrific 
condition. Very fun creative lens! Listing ID: 
137003241 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
FURNITURE
Solid Cherry Dining Table - $500. Ethan 
Allen solid cherry Queen Anne dining table. 
Two huge pedestal legs, two leaves, six 
chairs. I sanded down to the bare wood, 
needs finishing. Listing ID: 136768004 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Classy New Sectional - $650. This nice 
new sectional is lounge ready and at an 
unbeatable price it can be yours. Listing ID: 
135764549 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
TV Stand - $360. Very nice TV stand. Comes 
with side shelf on each end. Will support up 
to a 48” TV. Free delivery if needed. Listing 
ID: 135764554 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
t
your visio n,
our missio n.
outfitters@ucsd.eduCreate custom a pparel to 
promote your student 
organiza tion with Triton 
Outfitter's new Made TO Order program!www.ucsdguardian.org/advertising
.com/ucsdguardian
.com/ucsdguardian
Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies 
on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.ukLevel: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
Level:
12
34Level:
12
34Level: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
SUDOKU
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 9, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
The UCSD women’s water polo team had a 
busy but very successful week, taking three out 
of its last four games. The blue and gold started 
the week suffering a narrow 7–8 loss to No. 5 
ranked UC Irvine in the final home game of 
the season before winning all other matches 
on the road. On Saturday, the Tritons com -
pleted a 10–4 win over Sonoma State and a 9–6 
win over Cal State Monterey Bay at Seaside, 
California, finishing the week with a 15–13 
overtime win against Cal State East Bay.
It was Senior Night at the Canyonview 
Aquatic Center on Thursday, as senior attack -
ers Andie Nishimi and Jolene Guiliana played 
their final home games for UCSD. The Tritons 
took an early lead with a goal from sophomore 
attacker Lani Tittle. The game continued as 
a back-and-forth battle, resulting in five ties 
during the match. Guiliana later grabbed a goal 
and tied the teams at 5–5 in the third before 
freshman utility Kayla Fedler tied up the match 
once again at 6–6 at the end of the quarter. 
Although UCSD took the lead at the beginning 
of the fourth with a goal from junior attacker 
Laurel Kistler, back-to-back goals for UC 
Irvine gave them an 8–7 lead which they held 
to take the match.
“It’s tough when you play this well all year, 
and we just haven’t been getting the wins, ” 
UCSD head coach Brad Kreutzkamp said after 
the game. “ Andie [Nishimi] is such a leader for 
this squad from the day she stepped in; she just 
bleeds Triton blue and gold. Jolene [Guiliana] 
always does something new and funny in each 
game that you don’t really expect. Tonight’s 
goal was a perfect example. I’m going to really 
be sorry to see them go. ”
The Tritons’ luck changed over the remain -
der of the week as they played perfectly in their 
Western Water Polo Association away games. 
On Saturday, the Tritons started out with a 9–6 
win over Cal State Monterey Bay at Seaside, 
California. They began strong, scoring on their 
first possession with a goal from Kistler. How -
ever, the Otters responded with three back-to-back goals and led 3–1 at the conclusion of the 
first quarter. The second quarter saw the teams 
record one score each, with junior center Lau -
ren Finwall tallying for the Tritons before Cal 
State Monterey Bay responded. After the half, 
UCSD dominated the affair with junior goalie 
Courtney Miller keeping a scoreless third quar -
ter. The Big Blue took a 5–4 lead with three 
goals from Tittle, sophomore center Lauren 
Boyer and junior attacker Julia Kirkland. In the 
final quarter, UCSD secured the win, netting 
four goals from Fedler, Guiliana and a hat-trick 
goal from Boyer.
In the second game of the day, against 
Sonoma State, UCSD dominated from the 
outset as it took an easy 3–0 lead in the first 
with goals from Tittle, Finwall and Kirkland. 
Y et another goal from Boyer extended the 
Triton lead to four before Sonoma State got 
on the score sheet twice in the second. The 
Tritons displayed even more attacking prowess 
in the third, with scores from Boyer and junior 
attacker Emma Sasson and sophomore attacker 
Rachel Emami, three scores unanswered by 
Sonoma State. The teams drew the final quarter 
with two scores each, giving the Tritons an 
impressive 10–4 win.
UCSD faced a much tougher test on Sunday 
when it was forced to overtime versus Cal State 
East Bay at Pioneer Pool. The Pioneers drew 
first blood with an early score, but the Tritons 
responded with three goals — two from 
Kirkland and one from Kistler. The Tritons 
developed a 7–3 lead in the second quarter, but 
their opponents fought back to cut the deficit 
to one at halftime, 7–8. In the fourth, Cal State 
East Bay took a 13–12 lead and looked to have 
secured the win, but with just nine seconds left, 
Kistler scored a clutch goal for the Tritons to 
force overtime. Miller shut out the Pioneers in 
extra time and goals from Guiliana, and Kistler 
brought UCSD the 15–13 victory. Kistler man -
aged an impressive four goals, while Sasson 
and Kirkland each recorded hat tricks.
The team will return to action on Saturday, 
April 18, in the Harper Cup at San Diego State. After a 3–1 series defeat against California 
Collegiate Athletic Association rival No. 18 Cal 
Poly Pomona, the UCSD baseball team was able 
to snap its losing streak in a 19–2 standalone 
win against No. 20 Azusa Pacific University at 
home last Tuesday. This latest series dropped the 
Tritons to 23–12 overall and 19–8 in the CCAA. 
UCSD also fell to third place in the conference 
behind Cal Poly Pomona and Cal State Los Ange -
les, which are tied for first place at 17–7 each.
 Game one of the Pomona series saw UCSD 
win in an epic walk-off one week ago today 
at Triton Ballpark. Junior outfielder Gradeigh 
Sanchez was sent home from third after stealing 
his first base of the year when redshirt freshman 
Justin Flatt found a seam late in the 11th inning. 
Junior right-hander Justin Donatella (6–1) threw 
the first seven for the Tritons but was ineligible 
for the decision after the extra innings. Donatella 
tallied nine more knockouts to bring his 2015 
total to 70, and he still holds a conference-best 
0.70 ERA.
 “We’re just in that mode right now of trying 
to grind-out wins, trying to grind out at-bats, ” 
UCSD head coach Eric Newman told the UCSD 
Athletics Department. “It’s still early in the sea -
son. We’re still only half way, but to the point of 
this game, this one was a good one to win — the 
way that game played out. ”
 The following night, Cal Poly Pomona sent 
five runners home unanswered to chalk up a 
5–1 win against the Tritons. This would mark 
the turning point in the series and ultimately 
served to knock the Tritons out of their coveted 
first-place spot in the CCAA. Sanchez struck 
again in the fourth with a two-run double to 
score UCSD’s only runs of the game. Senior left-
handed southpaw Trevor Scott (4–5) caught the 
losing decision following a fifth-inning offensive 
onslaught by the Broncos.
 The series moved to Pomona on Saturday, 
where UCSD suffered a doubleheader sweep with 
the Broncos winning 8–3 and 11–7, respectively, 
on their turf. Junior right-handed pitcher Alon 
Leichman (5–1) was credited with five runs, four of them earned, across 4 1/3 innings pitched in 
the first game of the doubleheader and was given 
his first losing decision as a Triton pitcher. Junior 
right-hander all-purpose player Troy Cruz (5–3) 
received game two’s losing decision after just 
over five innings pitched, six hits and four runs. 
Senior right-handed pitcher Dan Kolodin (2–1) 
had four hits and six runs, all of them earned 
relieving Cruz.
 UCSD hosted Azusa Pacific University the 
following Tuesday, April 7, in what turned out to 
be a high-scoring standalone game to break the 
three-game losing streak. The Tritons delivered 
19 runners across home plate off a season-best 
19 hits to win in a one-sided 19–2 game. The 
win allowed UCSD to even Azusa’s win back in 
February for a 1–1 stand against the Cougars this 
year. With 10 runs already in the eighth, UCSD 
sent nine more home in that frame alone to mark 
the highest-scoring inning of Triton baseball 
thus far in 2015. True freshman right-handed 
pitcher Jack Rupe (1–0) earned his first decision 
as a Triton against the Cougars with a perfect 
two-frame appearance to start the rotation of six 
pitchers in the win.
 “This win is going to be pretty significant, I 
think, ” Newman said. “We really weren’t worried 
about it; what we needed to do was to get back 
to playing our kind of baseball — being tougher, 
being more disciplined and just really buying into 
all the work that we’ve been putting in. ”
 The Tritons will host fourth-place Cal State 
Monterey Bay for a four-game series at Triton 
Ballpark beginning Friday, April 10, at 6:15 p.m. 
after the official grand opening of the new Triton 
Ballpark and dedication of the Marye Anne Fox 
Clubhouse, which is scheduled for 30 minutes 
prior to the first pitch.
readers can contact
    Liam  Leahy     lleahy@ucsd.edu readers can contact
  John  Stor y     jstory@ucsd.edu 
PHOTO BY SIDDHARTH ATRE / GUARDIANUCSD Sweeps Conference Games Unbeaten Series Comes to an End
B Y  Liam  Leahy
staff writer B Y  John  Stor y
Associate SPORTS EDITORSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
MARCUS THUILLIER
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 9, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
T alented Tritons 
Compiled by Katie Potts, Staff Writer 
and Marcus Thuillier, Sports Editor  
he UCSD Guardian had the chance to interview two of the honorees, and we also congratulate the 10 others 
who were acknowledged for their achievements.
UCSD Guardian : As a student athlete, you get a lot of benefits that a regular student doesn’t. What’s the biggest 
benefit of doing a sport, and how do you take advantage of this? This past Tuesday was National STUDENT-Athlete Day, and the UCSD Department of Intercollegiate Athletics recognized 12 outstanding Tritons at the event 
near RIMAC Arena. Created in 1987, National STUDENT-Athlete Day honors college student-athletes who have achieved excellence in both academics and 
athletics, combined with outstanding contributions to their schools and communities.Softball 
M. Tennis
Baseball
M. Crew
Track and Field     4/10       
     4/10
     4/10    
     4/11
     4/11VS Humboldt State
VS Point Loma Nazarene
VS Cal State Monterey Bay
AT Stanford Invitational
AT Mangrum InvitationalUPCOMING
UCSD
GAMES
Drew : [The] biggest benefit is that you have an automatic group of friends that you’re super close with. A lot of 
people refer to it as a family, and it really is. A lot of the time, you go into college not knowing many people, but 
with a team, there’s automatically, like, 35 people that you click with and share interests with. ” 
Drew : The best advice I have is to come in with an open mind and take advantage of everything you can. When you come 
to college, it’s time to work as a team and support your fellow athletes. Supporting each other just boosts your friendships.
Caitlin : Plan your schedule out in advance so you’re not surprised at the end when you see how many units you 
have left. On another note, though, you have to come in ready to work — you may have been a star in high school, 
but this is a different level of competition. 
Drew : I definitely agree. All the crazy things that happen when traveling make the best memories. We have a tour -
nament every year in Chicago in February, and it’s always so cold — there’s so much snow! That was the most fun, 
though; we’ d be walking back from dinner and end up having an impromptu snowball fight, and, yeah, it’s cold and 
really wet, but it was so much fun.
Caitlin : Y ou really get the same spectrum of intelligence between athletes and non-athletes. For both athletes and 
non-athletes, there are people who may struggle to graduate, and then there are others whose biggest complaint is 
that an A+ won’t boost their GPA. Really, the only difference between us is that, for at least one quarter, if not more, 
we have 20-plus hours a week that we spend doing athletics that a normal student gets to do whatever they want. 
Drew : One thing I want regular students to know about student-athletes: We really aren’t that different. We work 
just as hard as everyone else — there is a big misconception that athletes have it easy. Especially here, we really have 
to work just as hard to stay afloat academically and athletically. We do have to work harder in the sense that we’re on 
the road a lot. We might have to take midterms on a plane ride or in a hotel room. Y ou learn to manage your time 
really well.  Anyone in any organization knows how that is.Caitlin : Road trips with the team were always fun. I remember our trip to Humboldt: Our bus driver was new and the 
bus broke down, so my dad had to drive back and forth between the hotel and Humboldt to get our team to the game on 
time. Honestly, though, it’s all those crazy things that happen with your team that become memories you’ll never forget.Caitlin : At UCSD, we don’t really get the huge benefits like athletes at bigger schools — we don’t get a lot of scholar -
ship money or cool gear. We’re all here because we love what we do. We’re in it for the experience and the friendships 
we’ll gain. I wouldn’t trade it for the world.
What is the best advice you have for future student-athletes?
What are the best memories you have from your time as a student-athlete at UCSD?
FINAL COMMENTS
Drew Dickinson
Karinne Caisse
Nick Roberts
Nadja Kern Andie Nishimi Madison TannerClayton Yamaguchi 
Miranda Seto Caitlin Brenton
Nate Ford
Michaela Kazek
Luke MitchellDrew Dickinson is a junior biochem -
istry/cell biology major with a 3.85 
GPA 
•	captain of the Triton saber squad 
•	All-IFCSC honors  with UCSD’s 
11th-straight conference title in 
2015
Karinne Caisse is a classical studies/
anthropology junior with a 3.66 GPA. 
•	placed	fifth	in	saber	at	the	NCAA 	
West Regional
•	Provost Honors recipient and 
multiple-time member of the Ath -
letics Director’s Honor Roll
Nick	Roberts	is	a	senior	management 	
science major with a 3.44 GPA
•	two-time CCAA All-Academic 
honoree
•	Academic All-District 8 First Team 
selection in 2014
Nadja	Kern	is	a	biochemistry/chemis -
try senior with a 3.68 GPA
•	member of the women’s basketball 
team that went 18–10 overall and 
16–6 in the CCAA and also quali -
fied	for	the	league	tournament 	
•	two CCAA All-Academic distinc -
tionsAndie	Nishimi	is	a	senior 	
cognitive science/psychology 
major with a 3.95 GPA 
•	Academic All-District 8 
First Team and ACWPC 
All-Academic accolades 
in 2014
•	selected three times to the 
UCSD Athletics All-Aca -
demic TeamMadison Tanner is a senior 
political science/history major 
with a 3.46 GPA
•	three-time CCAA All-
Academic
•	2014 U.S. Track and Field 
CCCA All-Academic 
selectionClayton Yamaguchi is an applied mathemat -
ics junior with a 3.43 GPA
•	two-time All-CCAA selection
•	won CCAA All-Academic distinction in 
2014
Miranda Seto is a senior human development 
major with a 3.57 GPA 
•	2014 All-CCAA First Team selection
•	 all-conference honorable mention in 2015Caitlin Brenton is a senior majoring in 
economics with a 3.92 GPA. 
•	two-time All-America honorable 
mention 
•	two-time All-CCAA First Team 
performer
Nate	Ford	is	a	human	biology	senior 	
with a 3.72 GPA. 
•	two-year representative with the 
Triton Athletes’ Council (currently 
secretary)
•	two-time California Collegiate 
Athletic Association All-Academic 
selection
Michaela Kazek is a senior chemical 
engineering major with a 3.77 GPA. 
•	four-year member of the women’s 
rowing team    
•	UCSD Athletics All-Academic 
Team selection in 2013
Luke Mitchell is a junior history 
major with a 3.75 GPA
•	helped	UCSD	earn	two	Pacific 	
Collegiate Swimming & Diving 
Conference titles
•	two College Swimming Coaches 
Association of America Scholar 
All-America honorable mentionT