SOFTBALL
SWEEP
UCSD SOFTBALL SWEPT SF 
STATE THIS WEEKEND, DURING 
WHICH HEAD COACH PATTI 
GERCKENS EARNED HER 600th 
CAREER WIN AS THE LEADER 
OF ONE OF THE TRITONS’ 
MOST SUCCESSFUL ATHLETICS 
PROGRAMS EVER. 
FOUNT AIN  TO  F ALLEN  ST AR
THE  RIGHT  TO  BARE  ALLBehind  stuart  art  Collection
REVENGE   PORN   and   the   LA wFEA TURES,  P AGE 6
OPINION,  P age  3
TUESDAY
H 70 L 54WEDNESDAY
H 70 L 52
THURSDAY
H 68 L 55FRIDAY
H 66 L 55
FORECAST
VERBATIM
WE ARE 
TALKING 
ABOUT 
SOCIALISM 
WITH A BIG, 
RED “S.” 
SOCIALISM IS 
BACK IN EUROPE, MORE THAN 
20 YEARS AFTER THE FALL OF 
THE USSR.”
MARCUS THUILLIER & 
AYAT AMIN
ACROSS THE GLOBE
OPINION,  PAGE 3
INSIDE
DIGITAL MONKEYS  .......... 2
LIGHTS AND SIRENS  ....... 3
QUICK TAKES  .................. 4
CROSSWORD  ................ 10
MEN’S BASKETBALL  .....12“
sports,  P AGE  12
PHOTO BY CORY WONG / GUARDIANCAMPUS CULTURE
UC Health Insurance Cyber -
Attack Exposes Client Data 
Anthem Inc. — the University of California’s 
health insurance provider — announced that it 
was the victim of a highly sophisticated cyber-
attack on Feb. 5. Anthem informed the university 
that the hackers accessed the information of its 
80 million members, including UC faculty, staff, 
students and retirees.
The hackers obtained names, member identi -
fication numbers, multiple Social Security num -
bers, birth dates, street addresses, email address -
es, phone numbers and employment information. 
They were not able to access the Social 
Security numbers of UC students, however, 
because Anthem does not collect that informa -
tion.
Director of global security response Katherine 
Keefe, who works for Beazley Group, which offers 
insurance for businesses against data breaches, told National Public Radio that even though they 
are not working with Anthem, this data breach is 
hugely significant in the healthcare world.
“It’s probably the largest healthcare breach 
that we’ve seen and maybe that the government 
has seen, ” Keefe said. 
U.S. Open Data is a non-profit organization 
that works with governments to help compa -
nies understand, store and share data. Its direc -
tor, Waldo Jaquith, told NPR that there needs 
to be federal legislation that addresses these             
security issues.
“We can no longer pretend that what hap -
pens on the Internet isn’t real life, ” Jaquith said. 
“We need requirements in place to ensure that a 
minimum level of security is in place to protect 
crucial data about everybody’s lives. ”
According to a UC press release, Anthem’s   B y  Jacky  to     Staff writerStudents
Participate In
Annual Hijab 
Day Challenge  STUDENT ORGS
Female students received free 
headscarves and described 
their experiences at the Islam 
Awareness Week event that 
was held in PC later that day. 
B Y  Maria Sebas
Contributing Writer
The Muslim Student Association 
at UCSD hosted an event titled 
“Hijab: The Elephant in the 
Room” as part of Hijab Day on 
Wednesday, Feb. 11. Hijab Day 
was part of the organization’s Islam                  
Awareness Week.
 The event began in the morning 
on Library Walk. Members of 
the MSA invited students of all 
backgrounds to take the Hijab 
Challenge and wear a hijab for a 
day. Those who participated were 
invited to share their experiences at 
the event on Wednesday night.
 The night began with a prayer 
for the three Muslim students from 
the University of North Carolina 
at Chapel Hill who were murdered 
on Tuesday, Feb. 10. The talk then 
transitioned into a discussion 
about the hijab and the difficulties 
Muslim women who wear the hijab 
face, which included speeches 
from Mamoon Syed and Marwa 
Abdullah. Abdullah spoke about her 
experience as a Muslim woman in 
the U.S. and recited a poem about 
why she wears the hijab.
 After the speeches, girls who 
had participated in the Hijab 
Challenge shared their experiences 
of wearing the hijab for a day. Each 
of the participants described having 
a positive experience and reported 
experiencing a difference in the way 
others perceived them.
 Revelle College junior Kacia 
Cameron, who participated in the 
challenge, told the UCSD Guardian 
that people treated her differently 
while she was wearing the hijab.
“I did notice a difference, ” 
Cameron said. “[People] were either 
avoiding eye contact with me or 
they were staring. ”
 A Q&A session with Ismahan 
Warfa, an MSA alumna, and Syed 
followed the Hijab Challenge 
participants’ testimonials.
 At the end of the event, Ramsha 
Shakil, another member of the MSA, 
told the Guardian that the goal of 
the event was to raise awareness 
about what being a Muslim                      
really means. 
“I know a lot of people have 
misconceptions based on what the 
media says, ” Shakil said.
  MSA president Sammay Azhand 
told the Guardian what outcome he 
hoped for from Hijab Day. 
“Just like in the name: to raise 
awareness because there are a lot 
of people on campus who really 
don’t know anything about Islam at 
all other than what they may have 
heard in the media, ” Azhand said. See  INSURANCE , page 3
See  HIJAB , page 3
Fatima Haghi, vice president of UCSD’s Muslim Student Association, helps Hijab Day Challenge participant Hibah Khan put on a  
headscarf. Photo by Nadah Feteih / UCSD Guardian.
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
On Dec. 30, 2014, researchers at 
UCSD published a study detailing the 
first test of stomach acid-powered 
micromotors in mice. The testing of 
these tiny zinc-based micromotors 
has notable implications for the 
future of medicine, including a more 
efficient method of drug delivery 
and biopsies of tumors.
Professors Joseph Wang 
and Liangfang Zhang of the 
Nanoengineering Department at the 
Jacobs School of Engineering are the 
first to show that these motors can 
be safely used in a living organism.
 The researchers previously tested 
similar models of micromotors and fuel systems that can travel in 
water, blood and other bodily fluids; 
however, this is the first time that 
they tested micromotors in a living 
organism. 
“We thought it was the logical 
extension of the work we have done 
to see if these motors might be able 
to swim in stomach acid, ” Wang said 
in the Jacobs School of Engineering 
press release. 
To begin the experiment, the 
mice were orally administered 
small drops of solution containing 
hundreds of micromotors. The zinc-
based motors quickly reacted with 
the stomach acid of each mouse 
to propel the motors toward its 
stomach lining. They can self-
propel within the mouse’s stomach 
for up to 10 minutes, at a speed of 60 micrometers per second. The 
motors then lodge themselves into 
the “viscous layer” of the stomach. 
They are subsequently dissolved 
by the stomach acid and disappear 
within a number of days, leaving no 
trace of toxic chemicals.
Researchers believe these motors 
are promising for gastric drug 
delivery in particular due to their 
acid-powered propulsion. The self-
propulsion of these motors has led 
to an improvement in retention 
of their “payloads, ” the substance 
that is administered into the lining 
of each mouse’s stomach by the 
micromotors. 
“It’s the motor that can punch 
into this viscous layer and stay Scientists Test Zinc-Based Micromotors In Mice
This marked the first time the micromotor technology was tested on a living organism.
B Y  Maria Sebas
Contributing WRITERScience and technology
See  MICROMOTORS , page 3VOLUME 48, ISSUE 33  TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 17, 2015 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGINSIDE THE STUART COLLECTION FEATURES, P .62 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 17, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG N EWS
DIGITAL MONKEYS By Jeff Lau
Registration for WINTER Qtr is NOW open!
Register online at 
as.ucsd.edu/saferides
A.S. Safe Rides allows register ed un dergradua te 
studen ts to  get 3  FREE rides per quarter.
Studen ts must register  at lea st 24 hours
prio r to their first ride.  A.S. Safe Rides 
asucsd asucsd
#OMG 
#LIKE US
#FOLLOW US
@ucsdguar dian
Follow us on Twitter
@UCSDGUARDIANThe National Science Foundation ranked UCSD as the fifth best 
university in the nation for research and development expenditures 
for fiscal 2013 with $1,075,554,000 in total expenditures. UCSD is 
the highest University of California school on the list, with UC San 
Francisco ranked sixth, UCLA ranked 10th, UC Berkeley ranked 
24th and UC Davis ranked 25th. The data for this year show a slight 
increase in expenditure compared to the $1,073,864,000 spent in 
fiscal 2012. The four universities ranked higher than UCSD were 
Johns Hopkins University, the University of Michigan, the University 
of Washington and the University of Wisconsin.
UC San Diego Hospital 
Fined For Preventable DeathSTARS Program Expands T o 
Include Non-STEM Students
Geisel Library Exhibits Dr. Seuss’ 
Personal Hat Collection UCSD Ranked Fifth For Research 
and Development Expenditure
UCSD Medical Center in Hillcrest was one of nine California 
hospitals that were cited for preventable incidents of death. The hospital 
was responsible for the death of 58-year-old Thomas Vera, a disoriented 
man who walked out of his room and managed to leave the medical 
center while still in his gown. Officials found his body in a nearby 
canyon five days later, and the hospital received a fine of $100,000. 
According to a state investigation, one way the incident could have been 
prevented is if the panic button in his room had been operable.The Frontiers of Innovation Program at UCSD is allocating additional 
funding to expand the Summer Training Academy for Research in the 
Sciences. STARS is a campuswide program led by Vice Chancellor for 
Research Sandra Brown and Dean of the Graduate Division Kim Barrett 
and other university faculty members. The summer academy recruits 
prospective graduate students from community colleges and Hispanic-
Serving Institutions in California and consists of eight weeks under the 
mentorship of prominent UCSD faculty. While it was primarily targeted 
to students in science, technology, engineering and mathematics fields, the 
additional funding from The Frontiers of Innovation will help make the 
program accessible to students from various academic disciplines.
Geisel Library will temporarily be featuring an exhibit of 26 hats 
from Theodore Geisel’s personal collection as part of the author’s 
annual birthday celebrations on campus. Called “Hats Off to Dr. Seuss, ” 
the display inside the Library’s Special Collections & Archives area will 
be open to the public from Feb. 24 to March 22 during the hours of 10 
a.m. to 4 p.m. The exhibit will be open from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. for Dr. 
Seuss’ official birthday party on March 2, which will also feature free 
cake and musical entertainment by the Teeny-Tiny Pit Orchestra.BRIEFSCOMPILED BY
KRITI SARIN //  ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITOR
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and 
Thursdays during the academic year by UCSD students 
and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this 
newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, 
without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2014, all 
rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible 
for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The 
views expressed herein do not necessarily represent 
the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of 
California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is 
funded by advertising. Stevie Wonder was here.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Audrey Sechrest
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Aleksandra Konstantinovic
Andrew E. Huang  
Taylor Sanderson
Tina Butoiu
Kriti Sarin
Charu Mehra
Cassia Pollock
Brandon Yu
John Story
Teiko Yakobson
Jacqueline Kim
Kyle Somers
Nilu Karimi
Siddharth Atre
Jonathan Gao
Joselynn Ordaz
Elyse Yang
Annie Liu
Rosina Garcia
Laura Chow
Vincent PhamEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
  
Associate News Editor
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Social Media Coordinator
Training and Development
Page Layout
Sherman Aline, Charu Mehra, Allison Kubo
Copy Readers
Andrew Chao, Caroline Lee, Micaela Stone
Editorial Assistants
Shelby Newallis, Jennifer Grundman,  
Karly Nisson, Mario Attie, Marcus ThuillierAzhand mentioned that Muslims 
have the tendency to think that 
others think badly of them. “But 
during this week, I’ve seen personally that there’s plenty of people who are 
super nice and honestly just don’t 
know, ” Azhand said. “If you inform 
them a little bit, they get happy and 
they learn something. ”
 The MSA also hosted “Meet a Muslim” on Thursday, Feb. 12, 
and a sermon titled, “Umma Means 
Community” on Friday.there, ” Zhang said in the press 
release. “Which is an advantage over 
more passive delivery systems. ” 
 To test the payload retention 
of these micromotors, researchers 
used vacuum infiltration to load the micromotors with gold nanometers. 
They found that the motors 
delivered 168 nanograms of gold 
nanoparticles per gram of stomach 
tissue, as opposed to 53.6 nanograms 
per gram of stomach tissue delivered 
through the previous methods.
This study, titled “ Artificial Micromotors in the Mouse’s 
Stomach: A Step toward in Vivo Use 
of Synthetic Motors, ” was published 
online on Dec. 30, 2014 in American 
Chemical Society Nano. investigation as of Feb. 16 indicated 
that the data breach did not target 
or access the banking, financial or 
medical information of its members. 
Anthem also advised the university 
that there is no indication that the 
attackers have misused any of their 
employees, retirees or students’ per -
sonal information.
Furthermore, Anthem informed 
the university that it will provide 
any of its members who enrolled 
in 2004 or later with identity repair 
services and information on how 
to enroll in free credit monitoring. 
The health insurer will notify the 
affected members via U.S. Postal 
Service mail. In addition to the data breach, 
Anthem notified the university on 
Feb. 6 of a phishing scam related 
to the cyber attack. The phishing 
scam consisted of emails that use 
the Anthem logo and included an 
offer to sign up for a year of credit 
card protection.
Anthem also has created a web -
site — http://AnthemFacts.com — 
dedicated to providing information 
regarding the data breach, such as a 
list of FAQ.
Anthem is currently the net -
work provider and claims admin -
istrator for the UC Student Health 
Insurance Plan at UCSD, UCLA, UC 
Irvine (for graduate students only), 
UC Santa Cruz, UC Merced, UC San 
Francisco and UC Hastings College of the Law. It only provides vision 
insurance for UC Irvine undergrad -
uates and UC Davis students.
Additionally, Anthem provided 
health insurance to UC employees, 
retirees and all of their dependents 
from 2003 until Jan. 1, 2014.
According to UCSD’s student 
health website, every quarter that a 
UCSD student enrolls in classes, the 
campus automatically enrolls them 
in UC SHIP and charges them the 
corresponding fee. Students, how -
ever, may opt out of UC SHIP and 
waive the fee if they already have 
an insurance plan and apply for a 
Health Fee Waiver. N EWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 17, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
LIGHTS & SIRENSLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edu.
Wednesday, Feb. 4
1:32 p.m.: Indecent Exposure
A male was found walking around 
the Rady School of Management 
with his genitals sticking out above 
his pant’s waistband. Report taken.
6:28 p.m.: Minor Injury Accident
A former couple was having an 
argument in Lot 17, leading to a 
domestic violence incident. The 
female subject stated that her arm 
was caught in the car window 
as the male drove away, leading 
to minor injuries. No disposition 
taken.
Thursday, Feb. 5
10:30 pm: Non-injury Accident
A UC cart was damaged when it 
was driven over a cinder block at a 
shuttle trailer. Report taken.
Friday, Feb. 6
11:21 am: Information
A report was received of a 
bleeding coyote at the South Mesa 
Apartments. Police were notified 
that animal control would not come 
as the animal was still mobile. 
Information only. 
Unknown: Forgery
An unknown suspect took a 
university check and forged an 
employee’s name and cashed the check. Total loss: $3,354.62. Report 
taken.
Saturday, Feb. 7
8:47 a.m.: Welfare Check
Police contacted by female, stating 
that her sister has not been taking 
her medication. Subject stated 
that she doesn’t know her sister’s 
whereabouts or how to get back to 
her dorm. Checks OK.
11:42 p.m.: Information
A vehicle was driving on Scholars 
Drive North with skateboarder 
hanging behind. Information only.
Sunday, Feb. 8
2:43 a.m.: Disturbance — 
Argument 
Person reported an intoxicated 
roommate yelling and throwing 
things. Transported to hospital for 
evaluation.
5 a.m. to 5:17 a.m.: Burglary
Subject reported an adult male 
that climbed up on balcony and 
entered an apartment in 1 Miramar 
Building 1 through sliding glass 
door. Burglar fled when resident 
yelled. Report taken.
— SIDDHARTH ATRE
Photo EditorAnthem Notified UC System of  Phishing Scam Related to Breach
▶ INSURANCE,  from page 1
Like us on Facebook
facebook.com/ucsdguardianMotors May Lead to More Efficient Medication Delivery Techniques
MSA Event Sought to Address Misconceptions About Islam And Gender▶ MICROMOTORS,  from page 1
▶ HIJAB,  from page 1Jacky To   j6to@ucsd.edu readers can contact
Maria Sebas   msebas@ucsd.edu readers can contact
maria Sebas   msebas@ucsd.edu readers can contact
4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 17, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CHARU  MEHRA 
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Wrongfully Exposed
Perpetrators and distributors of  revenge porn should be fully prosecuted, but more 
protective legislation needs to be created for the victims. 
ILLUSTRATION BY ELYSE YANGGreece Sets
Out on 
Road to 
Recovery
Greece, more than two millennia 
after bringing us democracy, 
is once again opening our eyes 
to issues that need solutions, especially 
for the youth. We are talking about 
Socialism with a big, red “S. ” Socialism is 
back in Europe, more than 20 years after 
the fall of the USSR. In a context of con -
servatism, austerity, recession and the 
saddening rise of racism in Europe, what 
is happening right now in Greece could 
not be better for the Greek people and 
for concerned youth all over the world.
The radical left party in Greece, 
Syriza, announced it would tackle the 
issues full on. They will oppose Europe 
and re-negotiate the debt, reboot the 
public sector and work toward youth 
employment. Syriza’s program and 
promises will look to set a new prec -
edent in re-negotiating the gravity of 
its debt against the “Troika” (the three 
organizations with the most power 
over finances in Greece: the European 
Commission, the International 
Monetary Fund and the European 
Central Bank). 
“The northern European bond -
holders, investors, central bankers and 
Euro bureaucrats that are the true faces 
behind the Troika, whose policies direct -
ly represent their interests, are confront -
ed by a serious democratic challenge 
by the new Greece and Syrizan govern -
ment. A challenge that could spread like 
political wildfire throughout Europe if 
not contained, ” reported Telesurtv, an 
online news organization. Recent dem -
onstrations in Spain, and maybe soon 
in other countries, who suffered from 
austerity show that this is a big step for 
people from financially oppressed coun -
tries. The new Greek ideals will change 
and save a European policy of austerity 
that has failed. 
However, rest assured that this does 
not represent a threat to the U.S. Greece 
itself has the third-highest debt in the 
world, at twice as much as the U.S., 
and currently has a 24.3 percent-rate of 
unemployment. Greece’s economy was 
growing until they went into a recession 
in 2007. After Syriza was elected, the 
Euro stock went down to an 11-year-
old low. Recent troubles have made the 
euro plunge, and, while that means a 
direct trade partner is in the gutter, the 
U.S. gets the better end of it. The situ -
ation sounds terrible. But Greece will 
stay within Europe while pursuing its 
interests. The recent events change noth -
ing for the relationship the U.S. has with 
Europe. However, the U.S. and especially 
the Greek youth should rejoice at the 
idea of having a more socialist govern -
ment in Europe. 
Syriza wants to address youth 
unemployment in Greece. We, as col -
lege students, should take notice of that. 
A job is not something that is given to 
us when we get out of college, and in 
a country like Greece, people our age 
are suffering. The youth in Greece took 
action by electing Syriza, a left wing 
party that fights for the people. More 
socialist policies are a benediction for 
the youth. Socialism presents an ideal 
in which the people actually have a 
voice, where the government fights for 
the people against big corporations and 
businesses, like those that govern us here 
in the U.S. Syriza is the first domino on 
the countries that still suffer from the 
crisis of 2008 — the crisis our banks and 
our capitalist system here in the U.S. put 
us though. Most of all, Syriza symbol -
izes hope, and hope is what will always 
attract and fuel the power of youth. Revenge porn is a topic that evokes strong emotions from 
the public at large. It’s also very easy to imagine that this 
situation is one that only strangers will find themselves 
in. Despite the constant public display of personal information 
on popular media platforms, no one likes to consider the fact 
that they may be vulnerable to this terrible exploitation from a 
significant other.  The worst possible betrayal by a previously 
intimate partner is demonstrated in these cases of mortifying 
public exposure and personal manipulation. A 2012 Pew Research 
Center study reports that “one in four adults aged 18 to 24 have 
received sexts — suggestive photos or videos. ” Additionally, “nearly 
one in three adults aged 25 to 34 has received sexts. Among all 
adults, 15 percent say they have received nude or nearly nude 
photos or videos of individuals they know. ” This shows that a lot 
more people are vulnerable to the injustice of revenge porn than 
society generally takes notice of. With cases like that of Kevin 
Bollaert — the 28-year-old man convicted of posting nude photos 
and addresses of women to common porn websites and then 
extorting them for hundreds of dollars — taking place right here in San Diego, revenge porn has never been a more prevalent issue. 
Creating legislation to protect victims of revenge porn is a vital 
step that the government must take to prevent future abuse.
For many college students, sexting is not an issue that they 
view as something that could bring them potential future harm.  
But based on the aforementioned Pew statistics, 25 percent of 
people who are of a collegiate age have received “sexts” and have 
likely sent them too. 71 percent of Snapchat users are under 
25-years-old. And while only 2 percent of college students use 
Snapchat to send sexts, according to Business Insider, that number 
still amounts to tens of thousands of racy photos, not including 
those sent via other mediums, like texts or private Facebook 
messages. Snapchat generally advertises the nature of its photos 
as temporary pictures that disappear after a second’s glance. For 
this reason, many users are oblivious to the potential privacy 
risks of this application. Photos may be stored on Snapchat’s 
servers temporarily, and there are ways for recipients to save these 
supposedly momentary photos. In the digital communities of 
modern society, it is vital that legislative safeguards are established 
See REVENGE,  page 5
According to the University of Michigan National Registry of Exonerations, 
there have been over 1,549 exonerations in the United States since 1989. 
Unfortunately, this is not surprising considering the fact that the U.S. justice 
system relies heavily on the exhibition of criminal evidence by trained lawyers, 
arguing to protect only their own client, or their government. Furthermore, the 
Sixth Amendment gives individuals accused of a crime the “right to a quick and 
speedy trial. ” While protecting individuals accused of a crime from remaining 
in court-system limbo, critical evidence is sometimes overlooked or neglected. 
Another sadly predictable statistic is that most of the individuals who were 
wrongly convicted were African-American, illustrating that biases still exist 
despite a supposedly fair system,  
The North Carolina Innocence Inquiry Commission is a government agency 
that examines cases in which claims have not been heard in a post-conviction 
hearing or trial and, where valid, potentially conclusive evidence exists. Since 
the Commission is neutral, it does not defend or condemn an individual but 
rather ensures that cases have been thoroughly and justly analyzed. Thus, unlike 
prosecutors or lawyers representing defendants, it does not have an incentive 
to convince a judge or jury, allowing the evidence to speak for itself. Because 
the Commission is a state agency, it has the authority to subpoena witness 
testimony, whereas other organizations with similar goals do not.
According to an investigation performed by the Better Government 
Association and the Center on Wrongful Convictions, based at the 
Northwestern University School of Law, exonerations based on wrongful 
convictions cost the state of Illinois over $214 million during the 1989–2010 
period. However, because evidence analysis is costly and Congress failed to pass 
the Justice for Reauthorization Act, which funded the agency and those like it, 
programs like the one in North Carolina may eventually be cut. 
In an imperfect justice system, it is imperative that third-party agencies 
like the North Carolina Innocence Inquiry Commission continue to exist and 
receive funding because, not only do they save lives, but they save states millions 
of dollars in post-conviction trial proceedings.
—  TINA BUTOIU
News EditorState, National Focus Should Be on Decreasing Prison 
Funding, Increasing Graduation RatesIndependent State Agencies Are Crucial For 
Monitoring Government Justice Systems
Prison is often associated with malevolent criminals. Unfortunately, this 
fantasy of evil thugs fails to accurately represent America’s prison population. 
According to The Innocence Project, a nonprofit legal organization that 
specializes in exonerations, 2.3 to 5 percent of prisoners may be incarcerated due 
to wrongful convictions. If 1 percent of inmates are innocent, that represents a 
minimum of 20,000 people. Also, don’t forget the sheer amount of nonviolent 
lawbreakers in prison for minor drug crimes. In a country with the highest 
incarceration rates in the world, it’s not surprising that California invests more in 
prison than education. Sometimes we pay to keep innocent people behind bars. 
To address these concerns, the University of California Student Association’s 
student-run campaign Invest in Graduation Not Incarceration, Transform 
Education is fighting for change. 
This challenges the school-to-prison pipeline. For the last couple of decades, 
spending for prisons has skyrocketed, while education has faced a plethora of 
cuts. Scott Graves, the research director of the California Budget Project, claims 
that California is currently planning to invest over $62,000 per prison inmate, as 
opposed to the mere $9,200 spent per K-12 student. And California is only part 
of the problem. Despite representing only 5 percent of the world’s population, 
the American Civil Liberties Union states that the U.S. has managed to account 
for 25 percent of the world’s overall prison population. This shows that the 
country drastically needs more programs like IGNITE to be available in every 
state, to prevent the continued expansion of a prison industrial complex.
Society as a whole would benefit if California closed funds for prisons 
and opened doors for students. A report by the Alliance for Excellent 
Education found diminished levels of education may increase crime rates. In 
contrast, expanding the high school male graduation rate by a mere 5 percent 
could save the nation $18.5 billion from yearly crime expenses. Funding 
for programs advocating for rehabilitation and preventative alternatives 
to incarceration are important to implement throughout the nation. The 
IGNITE campaign aims to wake up California, as taxpayers realize that 
they’re getting what they paid for.
— CASSIA POLLOCK
Associate Opinion Editor 
QUICK TAKESWITH THE SKYROCKETING POPULARITY OF PODCASTS LIKE “SERIAL,” WRONGFUL CONVICTIONS HAVE BEEN IN 
THE NEWS MORE OFTEN. THE OPINION SECTION WEIGHS IN ON ISSUES SURROUNDING THE TOPIC, NATIONWIDE. BY CHARU MEHRA & SASHA POLLOCK 
OPINION EDITOR & ASSOCIATE OPINION EDITOR
Marcus thuillier//
A y a t amin 
opinion@ucsdguardian.orgAcross the globe
OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 17, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
Decide if the  USC  School
of Social Work is right
for you.
Join us, before the application deadline, 
this spring in Rancho Bernardo.
Financing Your Future  
Wednesday, February 185:30pm-7:30pm
Curriculum Info Session
Wednesday, March 116:30pm-8:30pm
RSVP to sdac@usc.edu
/eight.LP/seven.LP/seven.LP/hyphen.cap/three.LP/three.LP/eight.LP/hyphen.cap/zero.LP/one.LP/five.LP/four.LP
www.usc.edu/socialworksecurely to support individuals 
whose privacy is infringed upon.
When times are good, people 
often choose to share these 
revealing photos during the trusting 
peak of a romantic relationship. 
Unfortunately, in the aftermath 
of a breakup this confidence is 
frequently destroyed in a ruthless 
fashion. According to McAfee, 
one out of 10 ex-partners have 
threatened to expose scandalous 
pictures of their past partner 
on websites. The study found 
that about 60 percent of these 
threats are followed through. 
Preventative measures should 
be implemented to increase awareness and also provide more 
resources for victims. Currently, 
80 percent of revenge porn victims 
will not receive protection under 
the Cyber Civil Right Initiative’s 
proposed Senate Bill 255 that 
excludes individuals who chose 
to photograph themselves. The 
exploitation of pictures taken under 
intimate circumstances should not 
be allowed under any conditions. 
Even though individuals may 
choose to take a risque selfie, this 
does not provide consent for the 
public distribution of their personal 
photos.
There is but one silver lining 
to the disgusting circumstances 
involving Kevin Bollaert and 
revenge porn, and that is to raise awareness for the importance of 
protecting victims of sexual cyber 
abuse. The San Diego Union-
Tribune reported Attorney General 
Kamala Harris as saying, “Just 
because you’re sitting behind a 
computer, committing what is 
essentially a cowardly and criminal 
act, you will not be shielded from 
the law or jail, ” in a statement 
released after Bollaert’s conviction. 
California has been the first state to 
prosecute for the criminal actions 
regarding revenge porn. If other 
victims are to be treated in a just 
and compassionate manner, this 
prosecution will not be the last.WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
Awareness Must Be Raised About Consequences of  Revenge Porn
▶ REVENGE,  from page 4GOT ISSUES?
BE HEARD
BY YOUR PEERS!SEND YOUR 
LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
READERS CAN CONTACT
opinion@ucsdguardian.orgFEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
TEIKO Y AKOBSON
features@ucsdguardian.org
6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 17, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEA TURES
Art around us By Teiko Yakobson // Features Editor
 with additonal reporting by Jennifer Grundman // Staff Writer
Photos courtesy of Nhan Nguyen
A few weeks ago, a hooded man concealed in a black mask snuck onto our campus. Armed 
with a sledgehammer, he took to the fountain next to the Student Services Center and 
what was once a prized piece of the Stuart Collection became nothing more than shattered 
granite. The reason for the vandalism remains unknown, but the loss of Michael Asher’s untitled 
fountain can be felt publicly by the display of a construction sign and two orange sandbags now 
standing as its temporary tombstone.
The Stuart Collection, the university’s official collection of sculptures and monumental art initiated by 
James Stuart DeSilva in 1981, has both made UCSD its home as well as added unforgettable visual impressions 
that allow students and staff to distinguish their “home” from other college campuses. As a force of 18 different 
modern art pieces that thrive on their ability to both blend in with and accent their location, the collection has 
stayed true to DeSilva’s original vision of peripheral art.
“I wanted art to be accessible for casual visitation, without any ... obligation to the passerby to look at or think 
about it, let alone treat it with reverence, ” DeSilva wrote in his founder’s statement in “Landmarks, ” a book about 
the collection. “My personal experience told me that living with art, casual repetitive exposure to it, can lead to 
understanding and appreciation, if not passion and possessiveness, even among those who profess to dislike art. ”
But whether “understanding and appreciation” has been achieved in the minds of students and staff 
across the board is questionable. For Thurgood Marshall College fifth year Kevin Huynh, who is studying art 
history and human biology, the magic of the artwork, in part, comes from the names of the artists behind them, 
most of whom are celebrities in the art community.
“ All of the artists who are doing the pieces, you see them in museums, like the Museum of Contemporary Art in La Jolla 
… and the [Museum of Contemporary Art] in Los Angeles, ” Huynh said. “Having [these artists’ works] here is like we have 
our own contemporary art museum on campus. It’s super cool. ”
Mary Beebe, who has been the director of the Stuart Collection since its establishment, says that bringing excep -
tional artwork from emerging, highly praised artists to UCSD is her utmost goal. One recent example is Do Ho Suh, 
who created the house sitting crookedly on top of the Jacobs School of Engineering in Earl Warren College known 
as “Fallen Star. ” Beebe first encountered Suh’s work in New Y ork in the late ‘90s, and he has since 
exploded onto the contemporary art scene.
Beebe stands behind the Stuart Foundation Advisory Committee, a credible group of art 
professionals who are experts in judging art to be of noteworthy concept and quality. 
The committee includes directors from several Californian art museums, the dean of 
Y ale School of Art, a former art curator of MIT and one faculty member from the 
UCSD visual arts department. The group provides its opinion on the artistic merit 
of proposed artists; however, the final decision to move forward with a project is 
made by the UCSD chancellor.FEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 17, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
“It’s a very distinguished board, ” Beebe 
said. “So when somebody says to the 
chancellor, ‘How can you call that blue 
fence [in the eucalyptus grove] art?’ The 
chancellor can say, ‘Hey, I’m a chemist. 
What do I know about art? But I have this 
art board of people who have spent their 
lives thinking about these things, and 
they tell me that it’s not only art but it’s 
good art. ’”
For some students, like Huynh, each 
piece of the Stuart Collection presents 
a uniquely creative approach to deco -
rating the UCSD campus, but other 
students find difficulty in connecting 
with the abstraction of their cryptic 
artistic messages. Dr. Jorge Mariscal, a 
Spanish and Chicano literature profes -
sor, has found this to be true of many 
students he encounters from under -
privileged backgrounds.
“I think the students who come from 
— for lack of a better term — urban areas 
or even inner-city areas, always tell us, 
‘I don’t really get [the Stuart art pieces]. 
They’re kind of funny, but they don’t 
really have any connection [to me], ’” 
Mariscal recounted. “They’ll say, ‘Where 
I grew up in South Central L.A., everyday 
I walked down the street and there were 
murals, community and student art — all 
kinds of things. ’”
The situation improved, Mariscal says, 
when the Chicano Legacy 40 Anos Mural 
was created and put up over the wall of 
Peterson Hall in 2011, one year before 
Do Ho Suh’s “Fallen Star” . Originally, it 
was meant to be temporary, but after the 
racially controversial “Compton Cook -
out” event in 2010, students demanded 
the mural be allowed to remain.
“Finally, those students were very 
happy, and they said, ‘Now I feel like 
home when I walk by that area, ’” Mar -
iscal said. “ And we’ve even had students, 
since then, say that one of the factors 
they chose UCSD [for] when they were 
accepted and looking at campuses is 
that they came here and saw that mural 
and they saw their family in that mural, 
whereas the [Tim Hawkinson] teddy bear 
can’t do that. ”
Mariscal would prefer to see the Stuart 
pieces supplemented by work from a 
more diverse group of artists, includ -
ing more women and ethnic minorities. 
Beebe says that she is continuously trying 
to reach out to black artists whom she ad -
mires, but so far their proposed projects haven’t worked out for various practical 
reasons, including financial ones.
“We have an artist I want to get 
through next who’s African-American, 
but his work is nothing about being 
African-American. Y ou would never 
know looking at the work that it is by an 
African-American, but he’s a really im -
portant artist, ” Beebe said. “Really good 
African-American artists don’t necessar -
ily want to be known as African-Amer -
ican artists. They want to do their thing 
and be famous in their own right. ”
Beebe emphasized that the Stuart Col -
lection does its best to contact artists who 
are well-recognized in the art community 
— regardless of their background — and 
that art pieces are not picked for any rea -
sons other than merit and how well they 
will work on campus.
“People will respond differently [to the 
collection], and that’s part of the whole 
thing … to figure out if you have a rela -
tionship with one of these pieces or not. 
And I know that because they’re abstract, 
it takes a while longer, ” Beebe said. “One 
[student] told me, ‘When I first came to 
campus, I thought that blue fence just 
might be art. ’ That’s the kind of thing 
that makes my heart go pitter-patter, to 
open your eyes and think that something 
different — that you’ve never seen before 
— just might be art, that there might be 
some intention behind it. ”
This intention, however, seems to be 
lost on many students. Mariscal, who 
teaches in Marshall’s Dimensions of Cul -
ture program and lectures on the Stuart 
Collection when discussing the privatiza -
tion of public universities, feels that the 
abstract nature of the collection makes 
it difficult for some students to see the 
pieces as art.
“If you look at the Stuart Collection, 
they don’t seem to be predisposed to 
[collecting] ‘representational art, ’” Mar -
iscal said. “Like the blue screen through 
the [eucalyptus] trees, most people … 
think it’s like something to protect the 
birds or something, right? It’s very ab -
stract, which, to a lot of working-class 
people, doesn’t speak to them. ”
To Marshall junior Diane Y oong, the 
Stuart Collection serves as a reminder 
of the privatization of the university. 
She views the collection’s relation -
ship with UCSD as a type of business 
transaction and wants students to have 
more opportunities to influence what 
See  ART , page 88 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 17, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEA TURES
Live without regrets, 
                      Learn without borders.
Discover where you’ll study abroad at usac.unr.edu
studyabroadusac@
USAC
APPLY NOW! THE
STUDENT
REGENT
APPLICATION
IS LIVEDeadline to submit:
Sunday, Feb 22, 2015
For more information,
email Hayley Weddle: hweddle@ucsd.eduart goes on campus.
“I wish there [were] more 
input from the students and 
more works by students 
on campus, ” Y oong said. 
“I want to see work that is 
relevant to the history of this 
campus and the land that we 
are on to remind students 
about the efforts made by 
those before us and hope -
fully inspire more work for 
the future. ”
As for including students 
on the collection’s advisory 
board, Mariscal believes that 
the Stuart Collection has al -
ways been resistant. He feels that, though the Stuart Col -
lection always consults the 
visual arts department when 
commissioning art pieces, 
its process should be more 
democratic and include staff 
and students, who spend a 
considerable amount of time 
on campus.
“[The committee] is a 
very narrow range of people, 
not only in terms of diver -
sity, ethnic diversity but 
also gender and all kinds 
of things and clearly class, ” 
Mariscal said. “Some people 
will hear what I’m saying 
and say, ‘Well, let’s just fix 
the Stuart committee; let’s make that more democratic, ’ 
[but] I don’t think that’s go -
ing to happen. ”
While Beebe said that 
the Stuart Foundation 
Advisory Board is unlikely 
to add undergraduates, a 
visual arts graduate stu -
dent will be joining it. 
Additionally, she said that 
the international advisory 
committee is diverse, with 
several members who are 
women or of different eth -
nic minorities. Most board 
members were picked by 
DeSilva in the early days 
of the Stuart Collection, 
and, aside from adding 
new members to replace 
those who have passed 
away, they are not looking 
to expand the commit -
tee. Additionally, any new 
board members must be 
approved by the chancellor 
before their appointments.
Progress toward student 
involvement on the board 
may come soon, but com -
missioning students for 
artwork faces additional 
challenges entirely. One is 
a lack of funding; another is Stuart’s strict fixation on 
sculptures alone. Beebe says 
that UCSD, while abundant 
in artists from various me -
dia specializations, has yet 
to produce a sculptor who 
could be considered for the 
Stuart Collection. Conse -
quently, none of the Stuart 
artists are UCSD alumni.
Beebe has, however, 
encouraged student artwork 
on campus apart from the 
Stuart Collection. She says 
the collection only holds ju -
risdiction over large monu -
ments, but paintings and 
murals are beyond its scope. 
Even modest works of art, 
such as the shining mirrors 
that one student discretely 
placed around the eucalyp -
tus grove, are advocated by 
Beebe. The major concern 
with bigger pieces, she says, 
is being able to meet univer -
sity restrictions.
“They have to go 
through the campus, ” 
Beebe said. “It has to 
meet codes because if it 
doesn’t pass the grounds, 
then people will just take 
it down right off the bat. [Bigger monuments] really 
need to be secure. ”
The mirrors in the trees, 
which can be found by 
peeking into the forest next 
to Peterson Hill, are one 
of Beebe’s favorite student 
projects because it requires 
attention, an idea that reso -
nates with the larger works 
of the Stuart Collection.
“The whole idea of these 
works is to open your eyes 
and allow you to think 
about something that you 
hadn’t necessarily seen 
or thought about before, ” 
Beebe said. “So it’s a little 
bit about permission to do 
that, and it’s a little bit about 
challenging yourself. It’s not 
as much about whether you 
like things or not, [it’s about] 
what [students] think. It’s 
very easy to say ‘I don’t like 
that one. ’ Okay, why don’t 
you like it? Or ‘that one’s 
my favorite. ’ Great, why is it 
your favorite? I think that’s 
what a university is about, 
really, is sort of learning to 
think in those kind of ways. ”
Stuart Art Collection, Student Input & Our Campus
▶ ART, from page 7
TEIKO Y AKOBSON   SYAKOBSO@ucsd.edu  readers can contactSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 17, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
of Miranda [Seto] and [senior guard] 
Steph[anie] Y ano who played excep -
tionally, ” VanDerveer told the UCSD 
Guardian. “I was really pleased about 
Taylor Tanita, who came in and who 
statistically had a great weekend. … 
And we have consistency in Farrah 
Shokoor; she averaged a double-dou -
ble this weekend. ”
On Saturday, UCSD came out in a 
dominant effort to take a 79–55 win 
against Sonoma State.
UCSD suffered another slow 
start as it fell behind early 11–5. 
However, a 22–6 run highlighted 
by four three-pointers gave UCSD a 
27–17 lead with 5:49 left in the first 
half. After another shot from long 
distance, the Tritons took a strong 
41–26 advantage into halftime. 
The lead kept on growing in the 
next half as the Tritons rode a hot 
offensive night and an outstanding 
defensive game to win by a whop -
ping 24 points. The Tritons shot 
47.4 percent (27–57) from the floor 
and 50 percent (11–22) from behind 
the arc while holding the Seawolves 
to 28.3 percent (17–60) shooting 
and 23.5 percent (4–17) from three-
point range. 
Eleven players got on the scoring board for the Tritons as the Triton 
bench had a terrific game, outscor -
ing the Seawolves’ bench 47–18. 
Shokoor had her 12th double-dou -
ble of the season with 13 points 
and 12 rebounds. Webster added 13 
points from the bench and sopho -
more guard Haley Anderson had 11 
points, going 3–4 from three-point 
range.
“I think we have quality depth 
at really every position, and it is 
important because every game we 
have players really step up to play 
and consistently, ” VanDerveer said. 
“We saw it especially on Saturday in 
such a win that everyone gets qual -
ity minutes. ” 
UCSD now sits in sole posses -
sion of fifth place in an ultra-com -
petitive league that only allows the 
top-six squads into the postseason. 
With the season winding down, 
the Tritons hope to maintain their 
hot streak as they return home to 
RIMAC Arena to face Cal State 
Dominguez Hills (16–2) on Friday, 
Feb. 20, and Cal State Los Angeles 
(8–10) on Saturday, with both tip-
offs at 5:30 p.m.lead at the end of the first. 
In the third inning, the Tritons 
tallied up five more runs. With 
the bases loaded, Maday produced 
a single to put in Schneider and 
freshman second-baseman Kendall 
Woken. Sophomore first-baseman 
Ashley Chestnut then hit a two-run 
double with the bases loaded once 
again. A sacrifice fly from Phillips 
gave UCSD its final run en route to 
an impressive 8–0 shutout victory. It 
was a near-perfect game for Duarte, 
who earned another win off five 
scoreless innings, allowing only three 
batters to reach bases.
The final game between both 
squads was a tighter affair than the previous ones, with only one 
run being produced by either side. 
Junior pitcher Alexis Edwards 
started on the mound and managed 
four innings with no runs, three 
hits and a walk. Senior pitcher Mo 
Omori came in to pitch a perfect 
inning in the fifth and was replaced 
by Duarte, who pitched no runs, 
no hits and one walk for the rest of 
the game. The lone run of the game 
came from Clewett, who scored on 
a wild pitch. The Gators came close 
to levelling the game, but, thanks to 
a great throw from Maday, UCSD 
took the out at home base to win the 
contest 1–0.
“We’re really coming together as 
a team, and we’re really starting to 
gel, ” Maday said.Such is evident, as the Tritons, 
who proceeded to win their next 
two games on Monday against 
Adelphi University, have won eleven 
straight contests since opening 
the season with only a single loss. 
Despite a completely new and 
younger lineup this season, UCSD 
appears to already be coming 
together as a top CCAA squad and 
NCAA contender. 
The Tritons will next embark 
on the road in a four-game league 
series against Cal State Stanislaus, 
with the first game slated for 1 p.m. 
on Friday, Feb. 20. 
Softball Squad Now Riding an Eleven-Game Winning Streak 
▶ SOFTBALL ,  from page 12
readers can contact
Liam  leahy    lleahy@ucsd.edu 
overs in the first half — 11 in the 
entire game. UCSD converted on 
only four of its 18 shot attempts in 
the first half, yet remarkably man -
aged to take a one-point lead going 
into halftime. 
The second half was a back-and-
forth contest between the two teams. 
The lead changed six times through -
out the game, five of which came 
late in the final frame. With the 
Tritons down two and only a minute 
remaining left in the game, fresh -
man guard Grant Jackson stepped 
up to knock down the clutch three-
pointer that gave the Tritons the 
final lead change of the night. 
Klie struggled early in the game 
but still managed to score 11 points and bring in seven rebounds. After 
having a quiet night against San 
Francisco State, junior guard Hunter 
Walker finished with 10 points and 
four rebounds. Both Tritons also 
finished with two steals each. 
The 50 points scored by the 
Tritons was the second-lowest out -
put of the season. On the other side 
of the court, the Tritons’ strong 
defense was key in the victory, espe -
cially late in the game. UCSD forced 
11 Seawolf turnovers, all of which 
were steals, and were able to out -
score Sonoma State 13–7 in points 
off of their takeaways. 
“We weren’t at our best, but we 
found a way to win, ” Olen said. “We 
didn’t shoot the ball the way we nor -
mally do, but we defended well and 
gave ourselves an opportunity. The guys stepped up and made winning 
plays down the stretch. ”
After the weekend split, the 
Tritons have lost three of their 
last four games and are now in a 
four-way tie for third place with 
Humboldt State, Cal State Stanislaus 
and Cal State San Bernardino in 
the California Collegiate Athletic 
Association. 
With only four games remaining 
in the CCAA season, the Tritons 
return to La Jolla next week for 
their final homestand of the season 
against Cal State Dominguez Hills 
on Friday and Cal State Los Angeles 
on Saturday. Tip off for both games 
will be at 7:30 p.m.UCSD Returns Home Next Weekend in Season’s Last Homestand
▶ M. BASKETBALL ,  from page 12
readers can contact
Daniel sung    d2sung@ucsd.edu Tritons Now in Fifth Place in CCAA 
▶ W. BASKETBALL ,  from page 12
readers can contact
Marcus Thuillier     mthuilli@ucsd.edu 
PHOTO BY ALWIN SZETO// GUARDIAN FILEFollow us on Twitter @UCSD_Sports
10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 17, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
CLASSIFIEDS$
Guar dian Classi/f_ieds ar e FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifieds
crossword
ACROSS
1 Punch line’s lead-in
6 Where many a T-shirt is tie-dyed
10 Mil. truant
14 Bernardo’s girl, in “West Side Story”
15 “Rubáiyát” poet Khayyám
16 Type of lily
17 Generous sort
18 Put the kibosh on
19 Like most hoopsters
20 Fuss
21 Helpless
24 Landed
25 London insurance market
26 Something wonderful, in old slang
31 “How much wood __ a woodchuck 
chuck ... ”
32 Weapons
33 Curly and Larry’s cohort
36 Concerning, in memos
37 Rum-soaked cakes
39 Cass or Michelle, in the ‘60s
40 Prefix with thermal
41 First Bond movie
42 Protection
43 ‘80s animated character assisted by the 
seven Color Kids
46 Bring in from abroad
49 Overconfident morality tale critter
50 Character who, in a movie released 
nationally 70 years ago today, sang the 
ballad formed by the first words of 21-, 
26- and 43-Across
53 Past
56 Take a gander
57 Exploitative type
58 Felt the effects of overexertion
60 Morlocks’ “The Time Machine” prey
61 Physical lead-in
62 Not save
63 Hotel repository
64 Important times
65 DomesticatesDOWN
1 Drawn-out story
2 Oklahoma city on the Chisholm Trail
3 VCR successor
4 Sporty truck, briefly
5 Released with conditions
6 Violates the Tenth Commandment
7 OAS part: Abbr.
8 Espionage name
9 Predicaments
10 Houston team
11 Exhausted
12 Leered at
13 Reclines lazily
22 Compete
23 Brewpub brews
24 Competent
26 Piece of kindling
27 Sharpen
28 Mark’s successor
29 “Shish” dish
30 Second Amendment advocacy gp.
33 Biblical gift bearers
34 Leave out
35 Alleviate
37 “Fox News Sunday” panelist
38 Michigan’s __ Arbor
39 No more than
41 Dressmaker’s seam
42 Side by side
43 First-year player
44 Tara family
45 __-Mart
46 Doesn’t do a thing
47 Gelt
48 Smoking gun, e.g.
51 River through France and Belgium
52 “I __ Kick Out of You”
53 Polite interruption
54 Trait source
55 Bookie’s concern
59 Numbers pro, brieflyBIKES
Specialized Mountain Bike - $499. Racing 
mountain bike set up for street use. It has 
rebuilt forks and 19in frame. Like new - 2nd 
owner. Listing ID: 121633553 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
Phoenix Beach Bicycle - $85. Selling a Phoenix 
beach bike in attractive shape. 26in rims. Very 
solid. Listing ID: 121633551 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
Phat Girls Aloha Maholo Beach Cruiser Hand 
Painted - $390. These bikes are all aluminum 
and custom Hawaiian hand painted. Bike is 
mint condition and eight years old. Only seen 
one like it. Listing ID: 121633550 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
BOATS
33’ Maxi Dolphin 33 2006 - $149900. This Maxi 
Dolphin 33 is a real head turner that can eas -
ily be single handed. If you are looking for a 
fast and comfortable daysailer that you can 
take out by yourself or a few friends and then 
race the next weekend, then look no further. 
Listing ID: 121633642 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
1986 Bayliner w/ Trailer - $4500. 1986 Ciera 
Bayliner with Volvo Penta 350 inboard/out -
board motor. In good condition and recently 
serviced with all gaskets replaced. Boat has a 
fiberglass hull, 24 feet long and has a lot of 
new parts and updates. The trailer is included. 
The registration is current and paid through 2015. Listing ID: 121383501 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
40’ Cruisers Yachts 4050 Express Motoryacht 
2003 - $179900. Express-style handling, beau -
tiful lines and live-aboard luxury provide an 
impressive balance with Cruisers Yachts 4050 
Express Motoryacht. The 4050 is a crossover 
yacht that offers a topside express layout 
with full aft-cabin comfort below. You will 
experience the functionality and feel of an 
express while enjoying 2 fully appointed state -
rooms and wide open living spaces. Listing ID: 
121633641 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
FURNITURE
Serta Visionary iComfort - $1200. I am selling 
a brand new Serta iComfort Visionary EK. The 
mattress has a quick responded to your body 
and this mattress features EverFeel technol -
ogy, which contours and conforms to your 
shape immediately with a cool action gel 
memory foam. Listing ID: 121067365 at ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more information
Pine Dining Room Set - $399. Table with cus -
tom pads. Six chairs (2 arm chairs, four regular 
chairs). China hutch with lighting and 2 glass 
doors and shelves. Listing ID: 120759023 at 
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
Dresser - $250. Broyhill Fontana. Terrific condi -
tion. 33” ht. 70” w. 19” d. Listing ID: 120496676 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
t
your visio n,
our missio n.
outfitters@ucsd.eduCreate custom a pparel to 
promote your student 
organiza tion with Triton 
Outfitter's new Made TO Order program!
LECTURENOTES
IS HIRING
NOTETAKERS
FOR SPRING ‘ 15
(STARTING 6th WEEK!)
Pick up an applicati on at
Lectu re Not es in the
Student Center
Must have 3.0 or bet ter
Applic ation & SAM PLE NO TES
 are du e Wed of fi nals week
as-lecture-notes@ucsd.eduwww.ucsdguardian.org/advertising
.com/ucsdguardian
CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 17, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
FUSION XV KICKOFF
PC WEST BALLROOMSUN2.22 • 7pmTahrirCAMPUS
CALENDAR
FEB 17 - FEB 222015 POWERED BY THE CHANCELLOR’S OFFICE AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guar dian
Calendar
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar @
ucsdgu ardian .orgTUE2.17 THU2.19 WED2.18
1pm
MEET COMEDIAN MAZ JOBRANI - 
INTERNATIONAL HOUSE, GREAT HALL
Iranian-American comedian Maz Jobrani will give a 
talk about his newly published Memoir "I'm Not a Terrorist, But I've Played One on TV". The memoir recounts his struggles building an acting career in 
post-9/11 Hollywood without having to wear a turban, 
tote a bomb or get kicked in the face by Chuck Norris 
or anyone else. The book is on sale now at the UC San 
Diego Bookstore and will be available for purchase at the event. 
5pm
CHANGE IN MODERN SOUTH AFRICAN GLOBAL 
SEMINAR - INTERNATIONAL CENTER, OCEANIDS 
PAVILION
Interested in spending 5 weeks in Cape Town, South 
Africa this summer? Come to our info session to learn more about program's courses and steps to apply!
8pm
MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY CAMP INFO SESSION - 
SUN GOD LOUNGE, GREEN TABLE ROOM
The Muscular Dystrophy Association (MDA) annual 
summer camp is quickly approaching! Become a camp 
counselor and get paired up one-on-one with kids with 
muscular dystrophy. Gain up to 150 hours of volunteer 
experience and learn how to take care of children! 10am
ALL-CAMPUS LUNAR NEW YEAR CELEBRATION 
2015 - SUNGOD LAWN
It's that time of year again! The International 
Students & Programs Office is holding an All-Campus Lunar New Year Celebration with various student organizations to celebrate Spring 2015 with all of 
you! Please join us at Sungod Lawn, where delicious 
food and fun games are waiting for you!
3pm
PASSPORT TO CULTURE - CHINA - I-HOUSE 
LOUNGES, CUZCO
Learn about life and culture in other countries and 
states from current international and out-of-state students. Enjoy a traditional taste of food from the highlighted region each week! Come earn your 
passport and travel around the world! 
4:30pm
$TART $MART SALARY NEGOTIATION 
WORKSHOP - WOMEN’S CENTER
RSVP: wcprograms@ucsd.edu Part of the event 
series "The Real World Career Series: Building Skills for a Diverse Interconnected Community," presented by the Career Services Center, the Cross-Cultural 
Center, the Ethnic Studies Department, the UCSD 
Women's Center, the UCSD Black Resource Center, 
the UCSD Raza Resource Centro, and the LGBT 
Resource Center.
SAT2.21
9am
WEST REGIONAL SASE CONFERENCE - PRICE 
CENTER WEST BALLROOM
UC San Diego's Society of Asian Scientists and 
Engineers invites you to a day of workshops, 
networking, and opportunities. At Regional Conference, 
we want you to have a good experience! 11am
ART AND SOUL: DIY DREAM CATCHERS - THE 
ZONE
Join the Zone to create your very own dream catcher! 
Workshops are free; all supplies and materials are provided. Space is limited and first come, first served.
2:30pm
SUMMER OPPORTUNITIES INFO SESSION - 
DOLORES HUERTA/VERA CRUZ ROOM
Make the most of your summer break - plan ahead 
now! Come to this summer info session to learn about 
in-state tuition options, how to get an AIP internship in your hometown, and complete the CPT application process! The Dolores Huerta/Vera Cruz room can be found in the Old Student Center next to Mandeville 
Auditorium.
4pm
LESS IS MORE? MORE IS LESS? WISDOM FROM 
BHAKTI YOGA MONK - ORIGINAL STUDENT 
CENTER, PHILIA VERA CRUZ RM
The Bhakti Yoga Lounge will be joined by 
Mahat-Tattva, a monk in the Bhakti tradition of Yoga. 
His modern understanding of an ancient spiritual tradition will fascinate us with the intricacies of Yoga scriptures. He will also lead a Kirtan-yoga mediation session. We will end with a vegetarian dinner.
6pm
PAD PRESENTS: ATTORNEY NETWORKING 
NIGHT - THE LOFT AT UCSD
UCSD's Phi Alpha Delta cordially invites you to its 
Attorney Networking Night, hosted in The Loft in Price Center! Whether you are interested in learning about 
the law or would like to build upon your professional 
networking experience, this mixer will provide a valuable opportunity to connect with San Diego's top attorneys in a relaxed and personal environment. SUN2.22
10am
VOLUNTEER @ ROGER’S COMMUNITY GARDEN - 
ROGER’S COMMUNITY GARDEN IN REVELLE
Want to learn how to garden? Want to get you hands 
dirty at UCSD? Looking to clock in those community 
service hours? Well, come out to Roger's Community Garden behind the Che Cafe and the Wagner Dance building in Revelle College! 
7pm
FUSION XV KICKOFF - PC WEST BALLRO
Fusion Kickoff is an event that brings all the dancers in the UCSD community together to put on this great show! Be sure to come out to support the dancers while enjoying an amazing show for FREE!FRI2.20
9:30am
DECAF 2015 - PRICE CENTER BALLROOMS 
The Disciplines of Engineering Career Fair (DECaF) is the only annual student-managed multidisciplinary 
career fair at the University of California, San Diego. 
This year, representatives from 93 companies will be attending DECaF to interact and engage with UCSD's talented engineering students regarding career options, internships, and permanent or summer employment opportunities. 
5pm
BRC NIGHT WITH ATHLETICS - RIMAC, GREEN RM
Join the BRC and UJIMA as we showcase our school spirit in the Green room for food and fun. Let's our support of the Women's and Men's Basketball team as 
the take on Cal state Dominguez Hills
ASCE PRESENTS:
LOCAL SHOWCASE
W/ KI 
Thursday, Feb. 19  
Doors: 8pm • Show: 8:30pm
The Loft • FREE for UCSD 
Students; $5 General
KAWEHI  
Saturday, Feb. 21  
Doors: 8pm • Show: 9pmThe Loft • FREE for UCSD 
Students; $10 GeneralUpcoming at
Upcoming attheloft.ucsd.edu
universitycenters.ucsd.eduROUND TABLE
FRIDAYSROUND TABLE
FRIDAYSRound Table Fridays: 
DJ CEASE FIRE
Friday, Feb. 20  
Round Table Plaza • FREEPHI ALPHA DELTA PRESENTS:
ATTORNEY 
NETWORKING NIGHT  
Wednesday, Feb. 18  
Doors: 6pm • Event: 6:30pm
The Loft • FREE  
* Professional Attire 
RequiredTRIVIA NIGHT
Tuesday, Feb. 17  
Event: 6pm
The Loft • FREE
Entering the weekend on a two-
game losing streak, the UCSD men’s 
basketball team continued to be 
caught in an offensive slump, fall -
ing to San Francisco State (7–11) on 
Friday night but escaping Sonoma 
State (8–10) with a much-needed 
victory the following day. 
The Tritons (11–7) just could not 
get it going offensively on Friday 
night’s 65–56 loss against San 
Francisco State. UCSD was held to 
only 36.7 percent from the field, its 
third-lowest shooting performance 
of the season, and a subpar 8–32 
from three-point land. 
UCSD’s sloppy ball-handling also 
led to 13 turnovers, 11 of which were 
stolen by the Gators. San Francisco 
State was able to turn their defense 
into offense, scoring 19 points off of 
the Tritons’ turnovers.
“We didn’t play well enough 
to win, ” UCSD head coach Eric 
Olen told the UCSD Athletics 
Department. “It is difficult to have 
success on the road, and we need to 
play at a higher level in order to get 
back on track. ”The Tritons’ only lead came 
halfway through the first period 
at 13–10, but they quickly lost the 
advantage after a 10–3 run from the 
Gators. The home team led 33–24 
going into intermission.
Despite the team’s recent slump, 
sophomore guard Adam Klie con -
tinued his terrific offensive stretch. 
He finished the night with a team-
high 15 points and five rebounds on 
an efficient 5–9 from the field. Klie 
is averaging a league-best 62-per -
cent shooting from the field. Junior 
forward Drew Dyer also added 10 
points and four rebounds.With San Francisco State hit -
ting 47 percent of its shots, the lead 
would grow to as much as 14 in the 
second half.
The Tritons’ sagging perfor -
mance continued into Saturday’s 
matchup against Sonoma State. 
Despite their poor shooting, the 
Tritons were able to come out with 
the crucial 50–46 victory through 
their strong defensive efforts. 
The Tritons were again sloppy 
with the ball, committing nine turn -SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
BRANDON  YU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 17, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
Win 600 came on a flawless weekend for head coach Patti 
Gerckens. The UCSD women’s softball team managed to 
pull off a clean sweep of the season’s opening California 
Collegiate Athletic Association series against San Francisco State 
on Friday and Saturday at the Triton Softball Field, during which 
Gerckens earned her 600th career win as UCSD’s shot-caller. 
“Winning four games against San Francisco State is really great 
for us” Gerckens told the UCSD Athletics Department. “To be able 
to say that I’ve been here at UCSD, I’m proud of that. I’m proud that 
I have worked with the athletes for so many years. ”
On Friday, the Tritons took both games by scores of 4–1 and 
5–3, respectively, and repeated their success on Saturday without 
conceding any runs, winning 8–0 and finally 1–0. Counting another 
pair of wins on Monday, UCSD is now 11–1 overall on the season 
and, with the recent series sweep, opens with a 4–0 record in the 
CCAA.
In the first game on Friday, UCSD looked dominant from the 
outset. In the bottom of the second inning, freshman catcher Lauren 
Sanders and outfielder Kelsi Maday and junior outfielder Taylor 
Abeyta loaded the bases before freshman third-baseman Rachel Phillips and junior shortstop McKenna Clewett stepped in and 
claimed an RBI each for the first runs of the game. That score was 
doubled in the sixth inning. With the bases loaded again, sophomore 
utility Bianca Devoto hit a single to take in two more runs and 
secure the 4–1 final score. Junior pitcher Hannah Duarte (3–1) took 
the win, recording five strikeouts and allowing only one run on five 
hits.
In the second of Friday’s games, Devoto first got the Tritons on 
the scoreboard, sliding across the plate after an RBI single from 
Sanders. In the second inning, UCSD demonstrated its enormous 
batting power, taking four runs from five hits. Devoto hit a sacrifice 
fly to give the Tritons the first run of that inning. Sophomore first-
baseman Emma Schneider then hit a double, running in Phillips and 
Abeyta. The offensive onslaught was finished off with an RBI double 
from Sanders to bring the Tritons to a 5–0 lead. 
Though San Francisco State attempted a comeback with three 
runs in the seventh, UCSD ultimately took the game 5–3.
Saturday’s first game saw the Tritons continue to make easy 
work of the Gators. A home run from Schneider put in herself and 
Clewett, and a solo shot from Maday gave the Tritons an early 3–0 
See SOFTBALL , page 11
MEN'S  BASKETBALL
UCSD Splits Road Conference Games
Men’s basketball continues to struggle offensively, losing to San Francisco State on 
Friday before snapping a three-game losing streak against Sonoma State on Saturday.
B Y Daniel sung
senior staff writer
WOMEN'S  BASKETBALL
Three Game Win Streak 
UCSD defeats lower-ranked San Francisco State and 
Sonoma State in two complete team performances.
The UCSD women’s basketball 
team now holds a three-game winning 
streak after defeating San Francisco 
State (0–18) 76–65 on Friday and 
Sonoma State (4–14) 79–55 on 
Saturday in California Collegiate 
Athletic Association matchups. 
UCSD has taken full possession of 
its postseason destiny, winning five 
of its last six games for a 14–9 over -
all record and a 12–6 record in the 
conference. 
The Tritons got off to a slow start 
on Friday night and quickly trailed 
13–7 with 14:32 left in the first half. 
UCSD responded in time, pushing 
back to take a 29–21 lead. However, 
San Francisco State managed a 17–6 
run to lead UCSD 38–35 with 10 sec -
onds left in the period before junior 
forward Farrah Shokoor got a tip-in 
off an offensive rebound to bring the 
score to 38–37 at halftime.
The game remained tightly con -
tested through the first 10 minutes of 
the second half. A mid-range jumper 
from senior guard Miranda Seto gave 
the Tritons a 55–53 lead with 9:50 
remaining in the game. The game opened up from there, with UCSD 
building a commanding eight-point 
lead at 74–62 before securing the win.
“I think that every time you play 
on the road — and this might sound 
cliche — but every team in our con -
ference plays at a high level, ” UCSD 
head coach Heidi VanDerveer said. 
“I think that our depth really makes a 
difference. The stadium was packed, 
and they played a very good game. We 
got stops, and once we establish our 
defense, it really helps our offense and 
that allowed us to get the separation 
we needed to get the win. ” 
The Tritons gained a 32–23 advan -
tage on the boards en route to the 
victory. Senior forward McKennan 
Bertsch had a team-high 14 points 
while shooting 58.3 percent (7–12) 
from the floor. Shokoor compiled 
10 points and nine rebounds against 
her former team. The Tritons had an 
impressive six players score in double 
figures, with Seto, senior center Dana 
Webster, redshirt freshman guard 
Taylor Tanita and junior guard Jamie 
Katuna also going over the 10-point 
mark.
“We can count on our backcourt B Y  Marcus Thuillier
Editorial assistant
See M. BASKETBALL , page 11 See W. BASKETBALL , page 11PHOTO BY ALWIN SZETO// GUARDIAN FILES
Baseball
Swim/Dive
W. Tennis
M. Tennis
M. Volleyball     2/17
     2/18
     2/20
     2/20     
     2/20VS Point Loma
AT PCSC Championships
VS Western New Mexico
VS Western New Mexico
AT PepperdineUPCOMING
UCSD
GAMES
Head Coach Patti Gerckens earns her 600th career 
win en route to UCSD’s four game CCAA sweep. 600  and  the  sweep   SOFTBALL
BY LIAM LEAHY  STAFF WRITER //  PHOTO BY  CORY WONG