VOLUME 49, ISSUE 7   THURSDA Y , OCTOBER 15, 2015  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
ARRIVEDERCI, 
ITALIA!
SENIOR STAFF WRITER 
SHELBY NEWALLIS CAME 
BACK FROM ITALY AND 
TOLD THE UCSD GUARDIAN 
HOW TO MAKE THE MOST 
OF STUDYING ABROAD. GET 
SOME WANDERLUST INSIDE.
TRANSPORT A TION   PLANS
HALL  OF  F AMEsandag   invests   $200   Billion
annual  induction  ceremonyOPINION,  P age   4
sports,  P age  12
THURSDAY 
H 79 L 68FRIDAY
H 79 L 69
SATURDAY
H 78 L 68SUNDAY
H 79 L 64
FORECAST
VERBATIM
MAYBE THE $151 MILLION 
THE JACOBS SCHOOL OF 
ENGINEERING RECEIVED IN 
2014 FOR RESEARCH WAS 
NOT ENOUGH FOR THEM TO 
BUY SOME STOCK PHOTOS 
OF WOMEN USING LAPTOPS. 
OR MAYBE THE DEPARTMENT 
WANTED TO SHOW AN HONEST 
REPRESENTATION...”
- VINCENT PHAM
BOY, INTERRUPTED
OPINION , PAGE 4
INSIDE
JERBOAS  ........................ 2
SEX ED  ........................... 4
WOLF ALICE CONCERT  ....9
CLASSIFIEDS  ................ 10
SOCCER  ........................ 12“Weekend,  P AGE  6
PHOTO COURTESY OF SHELBY NEWALLIS
The Global Forum at International 
House hosted an event titled “Iran, 
Nukes, and the P5+1 Talks” that aimed 
to increase awareness about the Iran 
nuclear deal on Oct. 12.
Erik Gartzke, an associate 
professor of Political Science at UCSD, 
moderated the event. The panel of 
speakers consisted of distinguished 
scholars who each gave presentations 
about the Iran nuclear deal. 
The Iran nuclear deal is a 
nonbinding resolution between Iran, 
the five permanent members of the 
United Nations Security Council 
and the European Union. The deal 
mandates that the United Nations will 
reduce some of its sanctions on Iran, 
and in return, Iran will limit its nuclear enrichment capacity. 
Nuclear scientist Dr. Mehdi Sarram 
said that while Iran has no use for 
nuclear weapons, he was opposed to 
the U.S. Senate investigations. 
“Iran has 17 declared nuclear 
facilities, but Iran doesn’t need nuclear 
weapons, ”  Sarram said. “U.S. senators 
have no business to inspect military 
facilities in Iran. ”
Moreover, he also mentioned that 
the average Iranian citizen sees the 
deal as oppressive and expressed some 
reservations about how nuclear deals 
often cause Iran to lose a lot of money.
Distinguished Professor of 
Political Science at the UCSD 
School of Global Policy and Strategy 
Stephen Haggard explained that the 
U.N. has been discussing deals and 
compromises regarding Iran’s role in 
the nuclear research and international communities for over 10 years. 
However, most deals were never 
successful in ended in a solution. 
Although some critics state that 
the deal is ineffective and harmful, 
UCSD physics professor Jorge Hirsch 
explained how it will decrease the 
chances of war. 
“Iran reaffirms that under no 
circumstances will it seek a nuclear 
weapon, ” Hirsch said. “Since 2005, 
the number of centrifuges in Iran has 
increased from 200 to 20,000. It is 
clear that Iran will not stop growing 
its nuclear program. The only other 
alternative to this deal is war…[which] 
will lead to a high probability of 
U.S. usage of nuclear weapons. Any 
regional conflict could explode into 
nuclear war. ” Brown Signs Bill Outlawing 
Weapons on Campuses
Gov. Jerry Brown signed a gun control bill into law 
on Saturday, which will increase state restrictions 
on those in possession of firearms. Senate Bill 
707 expands on current state gun legislation by directly 
prohibiting citizens from carrying concealed weapons on 
California school and college campuses. 
California State Senator and author of the bill Lois Wolk 
hailed its ratification in a press statement on Saturday.
“We took an important step toward making our schools 
and college campuses safer by closing this major loophole in 
California law, ” Wolk said. “SB 707 won’t prevent all campus 
shootings, but it will make our schools and campuses safer 
by working to ensure that the only people allowed to carry 
guns on campuses are law enforcement. ”
The ban comes in the wake of several recent school 
shootings. Since the beginning of October, three shootings 
with at least one fatality have occurred on a school campus. 
The shooting at Umpqua Community College in Oregon 
claimed 10 lives, including the shooter’s, along with nine 
nonlethal injuries.
Originally, California law forbade a person from openly carrying a firearm within 1,000 feet of school or university 
property, unless authorized by administrators. SB 707 will 
extend this prohibition to include concealed firearms, 
making it a criminal offense for citizens to be caught with 
a weapon in their glove compartment or on their person.
The bill includes exemptions for active and retired law 
enforcement officers. However, the exemption does not 
apply unless authorized by their former agency.
Criticism has already accumulated since SB 
707’s passage just days ago, particularly from Second 
Amendment advocacy groups. President of the Firearms 
Policy Coalition Brandon Combs derided the bill in a press 
statement, saying that it leaves ordinary citizens without the 
ability to defend themselves.
“Victims of domestic violence and stalking, judges 
and prosecutors and public defenders … will now have to 
leave their registered self-defense handguns at home when 
picking up their children at school, leaving them without 
the necessary protection, ” Combs said. “It is an attack on the 
most vulnerable in our society. ”
The Firearms Policy Coalition sent over 40,000 letters   B Y  Josh   Lefler   Staff WriterU.S. Senate 
Voids Federal 
Perkins Loan 
ProgramNATIONAL
Although the House voted to 
renew the Perkins program 
for another year, the Senate 
opted against extending it.
BY   S h e r m a n   A l i n e
Contributing Writer
See  PERKINS , page 3The U.S. Senate blocked a bill 
temporarily renewing the Perkins 
Loan Program, the country’s oldest 
federal loan program benefitting low-
income college students on Sept. 30. 
The House of Representatives had 
voted in favor of the program’s renewal 
one week earlier.
Senator Lamar Alexander (R-TN), 
chair of the Senate Health, Education, 
Labor and Pensions Committee, fully 
supported the cancellation of the 
Perkins Loan Program and decided 
not to have a floor vote on the renewal 
of the bill. 
“Reauthorizing the Perkins loan 
[program] will cost $5  billion over 10 
years, ’’ Alexander said on the Senate 
floor. “Many witnesses before our 
committee have said that $5 billion 
would be better spent on more Pell 
grants, which is going to result from 
our [legislation]. ”
Perkins loans are set up to assist 
students in managing the financial 
burden of paying for college. Interest 
does not begin to accumulate until 
students complete their education, 
and the loans are set at a fixed 
interest rate of 5 percent. Payments 
are not required until nine months 
after enrollment ends, and students 
employed in military, health or 
education fields may be able to cancel 
their Perkins loans completely.
Currently enrolled college students 
who received a Perkins loan before 
June 30 will still be able to take out 
more loans for up to five years, but 
students who have not already applied 
for and received a loan through the 
program will now be unable to do so.
Last year, Perkins loans made 
up $1.2 billion of the $150 billion 
in grants and loans funded by the 
federal government, according to The 
Huffington Post. The W ashington Post 
reported that approximately 540,000 
students received Perkins loans 
nationwide for the 2013–14 school 
year, averaging $2,172 for each student.
Opponents of the Perkins loan 
program point out that it overlaps with 
other federal aid programs, such as Pell 
Grants and the Direct Loan Program. 
Alexander favors a consolidation of 
all federal loan programs into one 
unsubsidized loan. 
“Our goal is to simplify the system, 
make it easier for students to apply 
for grants and loans, ” he said. “The 
Perkins loan is not as effective a loan in 
meeting those goals as the other loans 
that we have. ”
Senator Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), 
who supported the continuation of 
the loan program, agreed that changes 
should be made to the federal loan 
system but stressed the importance of 
creating a solution before removing Scholars Examine Iran Deal at Global Forum
Three panelists from various academic backgrounds discussed the nuclear resolution.See GUNS , page 3
See  IRAN , page 3CALIFORNIA
CAMPUS
BY   O m k a r   M a h a j a n
Staff Writer
Source: TIME, RT, EveryTown Research, NYU Press Infographic by Sophia Huang 2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 15, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
AVERAGE CAT By Christina Carlson
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian 
is not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts 
or art. The views expressed herein do not necessarily 
represent the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University 
of California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is 
funded by advertising. We have a problem with electricity in 
the sex couch room.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Marketing Director
Laura Chow
Associate Marketing Director
Peter McInnis
Training and Development Manager
Cedric Hyon
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Vincent Pham
Rosina Garcia
Tina Butoiu
Kriti Sarin
Jacky To
Cassia Pollock 
Marcus Thuillier
Allison Kubo
Kyle Somers
Karly Nisson
Brittney Lu
Olga Golubkova
Jonathan Gao
Megan Lee
Joselynn Ordaz
Sherman Aline
Elyse Yang
Christina Carlson
Jennifer GrundmanEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
 
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
Associate Features Editor
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Sherman Aline, Allison Kubo
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim
Editorial Assistants
Sage Schubert Christian, Katie Potts, Christian Duarte
.com/ucsdguardianScientists from UCSD, Harvard 
University and Montana State 
University published a study that 
examines how evolution affects limb 
development in the jerboa, a species 
of rodent with long hind limbs like 
those of a kangaroo. Published in 
this week’s issue of Current Biology, 
the team’s seven-year study might 
help us better understand human 
limb development. 
Researchers sought to address 
how growth rates differ for bones of 
varying sizes. The team specifically 
turned to the jerboa due to its 
drastic changes in limb development 
throughout its evolutionary history; 
namely, its transition from a five-
toed quadrupedal ancestor to the 
three-toed bipedal creature of today.
The jerboa allowed the 
team to understand how limb 
proportionality is determined 
among humans. By studying the 
skeletal anatomy of over 33 different 
species of jerboa and comparing 
them to closely-related species of mice, the team found that certain 
genetic factors may control for 
individual bone sizes. 
UCSD biological sciences 
professor and lead author Dr. 
Kimberly Cooper explained how the 
discovery is an unprecedented find 
that directly links evolution with 
limbic structure. 
“We found that evolution controls 
individual bone size, ” Cooper told 
the UCSD News Center.  “That’s 
huge, because if you think about 
the genes that control the growth 
of all of the different bones in our 
body, that suggests they have to be 
regulated in very complex ways. ”
Dr. Clifford Tabin, Chairman 
of the department of genetics at 
Harvard Medical School and 
co-author of the study, explained 
how the analysis of limb 
development among the jerboas led 
to a better understanding of the 
evolutionary process.
“We focused on a group of 
rodents from Asia that have evolved 
to variously run on the ground, 
scale trees and/or run or hop on 
their hind legs,” Tabin told the 
UCSD Guardian. “This study was important in sorting out the order 
in which these changes occurred, 
allowing us to better understand 
their evolution. ” 
Andrew Biewener, a professor 
at Harvard University’s department 
of organismic and evolutionary 
biology and co-author of the study, 
told the Guardian how the team’s 
finding can aid medical researchers 
looking for alternative ways to treat 
osteoporosis and address abnormal 
limb growth in humans. 
“Understanding what genes 
and growth factors are involved 
in regulating growth plate cell 
dynamics could help develop 
clinical therapies for correcting 
long bone growth abnormalities, ” 
Biewener said. 
The study also provided insight 
on the types of genes that may 
control for limb length in humans. 
“Humans, and rodents like 
mice and jerboas, may appear 
extremely different, but we are 
built on the same basic plan, ” 
Tabin said. “Understanding the 
genes controlling (for example) the 
different sizes of legs in rodents, 
thus, gives us insight into the types of genes responsible for the same 
sorts of differences in humans, 
e.g., some of us having short legs 
and others having the physique of 
basketball players. ” 
Moreover, the study suggested 
that the transition from a 
quadrupedal form of movement 
to a bipedal one in an organism’s 
evolutionary history — in this case, 
the jerboa — may be driven by 
survivability. 
“The group of rodents that 
comprise the family Dipodidae, 
which includes the jerboa, is a 
very cool and important example 
of how evolution has shaped the 
limb anatomy and transformed 
the animals’ [sic] locomotory 
biology from being four-legged 
[quadrupedal] to two-legged 
[bipedal],” Biewener said. “Our 
analyses suggest that the evolution 
of a bipedal form is linked to 
reducing the predation risk for these 
nocturnal animals. ”SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
Scientists Compare Limb Proportionality in Jerboas to Humans
Researchers chose the rodent species because, like homo sapiens, it developed limbs that allowed it to walk on two legs.
BY   A n d r e w   C h a o
Staff Writer 
ANdrew  Chao   avchao@ucsd.edu readers can contact
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Follow us on Twitter 
@UCSDGUARDIANsee more atSarram explained that many of the 
facilities that Iran is designing are not 
for nuclear weapons, but rather for 
research purposes. 
Eleanor Roosevelt College junior 
Jake Lory expressed his enthusiasm 
about what was discussed in the event. 
“I found the forum to be 
substantive and engaging, ” Lory told 
the Guardian. “Most intriguing were 
Sarram’s statements about the Iran 
Deal through the eyes of the common 
Iranian citizen. While the majority, if not all, media outlets ignore this 
facet of the conversation entirely, it 
was illuminating to hear why much of 
the Iranian populace does not support 
the deal. ” 
Lory further expressed his thoughts 
on how some Iranians see the deal 
as offensive since it could waste a 
significant amount of money and stop 
research efforts.
“Feeling unrightfully criminalized 
by the [unsupported] accusations put 
upon their nation…[Iranians] see the 
Iran Deal as offensively constraining to their nations efforts of nuclear energy 
production, ” he said. “Particularly 
alarming was Sarram’s assertion 
that the deal will ultimately waste 
a previously invested $150 billion 
put into the nation’s nuclear energy 
expansion efforts. ”
This event was hosted by the 
Global Forum and the International 
Affairs Group, which hosts a variety of 
speakers and scholars every Monday 
night at 7 p.m. at the Great Hall.the old program. 
“I just don’t think it is right or 
fair to end this program with nothing 
to replace it, to the detriment of 
thousands in need, ”  Baldwin said on 
the Senate floor.
Education Secretary Arne Duncan 
expressed similar sentiments in a 
statement to USA Today, saying that 
the loan program should be reinstated 
with several changes.“I would challenge Congress to 
redesign Perkins to make it larger, 
better targeted and more effective 
at helping students and families 
attend schools that offer a quality 
and affordable education, and I’ d be 
enthusiastic about working with them 
to do that, ’’ Duncan said.
At UCSD, 59 percent of the 2014–
15 graduating class received some 
type of federal loan, subsidized or 
unsubsidized, to help pay for their 
education. The average amount of debt loan-holding students had at 
graduation averaged $20,555.
For students in need of financial 
assistance, there are some other 
alternatives. Direct subsidized and 
unsubsidized Stafford loans and direct 
PLUS loans are offered by the federal 
government, in addition to the option 
of taking out private loans.
Additional reporting by Kriti Sarin. to Gov. Brown’s office just days before 
he was set to sign SB 707, urging him 
to veto the legislation, according to the 
coalition’s website.
UC Davis Police Chief Matthew 
Carmichael testified in support of 
the bill on behalf of the University 
of California because it does not 
prevent law enforcement officers 
from bearing arms.
“Protecting today’s schools is a 
daunting task, ” Carmichael said. “With 
the passage of SB 707, we are providing 
our law enforcement officers the tools they need to keep our schools safe. ” 
The UC system was one of SB 
707’s main supporters. In an email 
exchange between California State 
Senator and head of the Senate Public 
Safety Committee Loni Hancock and 
the UC system’s legislative director 
Jason Murphy on April 13, 2015, the 
school system expressed its support for 
the bill, and suggested the exemption 
for retired law enforcement.
“The University of California 
supports efforts to keep firearms off of 
campus. … However, [the UC system] 
believes that retired police officers 
… should continue to have the same rights as provided under existing law, ” 
Hancock wrote. “SB 707, if amended, 
would assist us significantly. ”
California has been recognized as 
having some of the nation’s toughest 
gun laws. In a 2014 study conducted by 
the legal group Law Center to Prevent 
Gun Violence, California was ranked 
first in the nation for gun-control 
legislation. According to the same 
study, California was also ranked with 
having the ninth lowest number of gun 
deaths per capita among all states.NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 15, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
Three Fatal School Shootings Have Occured Over Past Two W eeks
More Than Half  of  the Class of  2015 Received Federal Loans
Hirsch: Nuclear War Would Likely Occur Without the Iran Deal▶ GUNS,  from page 1
▶ PERKINS,  from page 1
▶ IRAN,  from page 1JOSH   LEFLER   jlefler@ucsd.edureaders can contact
Sherman  Aline   saline@ucsd.edureaders can contact
Omkar   Mahajan   omahajan@ucsd.edureaders can contactLooking for the 
New Business 
Column?
Now posted every Wednesday 
night, after the A.S. Council 
meeting, online.
ucsdguardian.org4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 15, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CASSIA POLLOCK
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
When SANDAG passed a controversial $200 billion transportation plan for the next 35 years, 
some environmentalists complained that it does not take enough action against climate change.Road to Nowhere
ILLUSTRA TION   B Y  CHRISTINA   CARLSONWhere Are 
My CSE 
Ladies At?
Take a look at UCSD’s 
department of computer 
science and engineering 
homepage. Click through the 
various slider photos and you’ll 
notice that women are far less 
represented. There are 21 photos 
total, but only 4:10 photos have 
a female subject. Representation-
wise, 19 percent of the photos 
are exclusively female, and 38 
percent of the photos clearly have 
at least one female. What could 
this possibly mean gender wise for 
the 2,174 CSE undergraduates on 
campus from 2014–15?
It might seem petty to call out 
the department of CSE for its lack of 
female representation in its photos. 
Maybe the $151 million the Jacobs 
School of Engineering received in 
2014 for research was not enough for 
them to buy some stock photos of 
women using laptops. Or maybe the 
department wanted to show an honest 
representation of women in CSE at 
UCSD. And that’s probably the case. 
Fall 2014 statistics from the Office of 
the Registrar documented 380 female 
CSE majors. How many males? 1,794. 
Of the entire CSE undergraduate list, 
only 17.4 percent were women. So 
in actuality, the CSE homepage was 
overcompensating, wasn’t it?
The gender breakdown of CSE 
majors needs to be more accessible, or 
at least renamed from “Third Week 
Statistics. ” The department of CSE 
should publicly display these numbers 
and make an active effort to change 
the underrepresentation of women. 
When asked why this issue is so 
prevalent for female CSE majors, 
Ph.D. student of computer science and 
former President of UCSD’s Graduate 
Women in Computing Organization 
Olivia Simpson said, “Y ou have this 
image of yourself, and if you can’t 
place yourself in a situation like ... 
a developer, or someone studying 
science, you’re just not going to 
pursue it. And I think a way to solve 
that is to make women more visible 
— make this something that young 
women can see themselves doing. ”
Having visual representation of 
women in CSE can be an effective 
means to bridging the gender gap. 
Organizations like WIC encourage 
women to pursue their talents in CSE. 
Sixth College senior and president of 
the Undergraduate WIC Angelique 
De Castro could vouch for that. She 
said that her experience at the 2012 
annual Grace Hopper Conference 
was proof that women can make a 
valuable impact in CSE.
NPR’s Planet Money podcast, 
episode 576, explains that women 
had been some of the pioneers of 
computing pre-1984. The gender-
directed advertisements of computers 
to young boys created a narrative 
that excluded women from the tech 
culture at an early age. Planet Money’s 
assumption holds up, as its graph 
shows a sharp decline of female 
participation in computer science 
from 1984 onward. In 2010, female 
CSE majors lingered at approximately 
17 percent.
To create substantial reform, the 
department of CSE must invest in 
programs to extend computer science 
to young girls all over San Diego, 
and in particular to young girls of 
underrepresented demographics 
and low socioeconomic status. 
Lastly, change the photos on the CSE 
homepage. This will not instantly fix 
the problem, but it will lend awareness 
to ingrained gender differences.Let’s be brutally honest with ourselves: Do we need 
to change? The reality of the San Diegan lifestyle 
is that we like to drive in the fast lane, charging 
like a speed demon across the freeway. Unfortunately, 
this is neither safe nor a sustainable option for the future, 
as it continues to contribute to a signi ficant amount of 
greenhouse gases — and climate change must be addressed. 
When the New Y ork Times asked Park Williams, a scientist 
who studies climate change at the Lamont-Doherty Earth 
Observatory of Columbia University, about the state of 
California’s drought, he said, “It would be a fairly bad 
drought no matter what, but it’s de finitely made worse by 
global warming. ” According to Williams and his colleagues’ 
research, climate change is responsible for 15 to 20 percent 
of the moisture de ficit that contributes to California’s 
drought. That’s one example of a way in which climate 
change is real and is a ffecting us on a daily basis.
It’s time to bite the bullet and face our situation. The city 
needs to start seriously addressing pollution, greenhouse 
gas emissions and climate change. Last week, the San 
Diego Association of Governments approved a $200 billion 
regional plan, known as San Diego Forward, that will a ffect 
the city’s transportation design for the next 35 years. If you 
consider billions and billions of dollars, and also factor in 35 
years — since time is money — then holy guacamole, it’s a 
lot of maiz.And if residents of San Diego are contributing their 
hardworking taxpayer’s money, we do expect to see some 
serious action taken to combat climate change. SANDAG’s 
forum of decision-making is comprised of 18 cities and the 
county government. With $200 billion at stake, it would be 
nice to believe they are putting this money to good use. The 
regional plan of San Diego Forward aims to increase public 
transportation in the form of extra trolley lines, buses and 
bike stations. According to the plan, this will successfully 
reduce greenhouse gases by 30 percent over the years — a 
definite step in the right direction.
On the other hand, the plan has been blasted by a vocal 
group of environmentalists. At least 100 speakers came to 
SANDAG’s final meeting on the plan, with many critics 
seizing this opportunity to voice their disapproval. Some 
elderly women displayed posters of children supposedly 
resembling their grandchildren. These ladies requested a 
moment of silence for the deceased, morbidly implying 
their future o ffspring would be dead because of our poor 
environmental choices. Despite their apocalyptic sentiment, 
the plan passed without delay.
The main beef these critics have with SANDAG is 
that the plan still prioritizes cars and freeways over public 
transportation. Although the plan does increase public 
transportation, it also creates more managed lanes — 
with toll fees — and the expansion of freeways. Some 
See SANDAG, page 5
“Schools are not required to teach 
sex education, ” a disturbing fact the 
California Department of Education 
states on its website. Fortunately, 96 
percent of schools do include sex 
education — though 100 percent 
would be ideal — in their curriculum, 
and this curriculum must abide by 
strict laws, including one Gov. Jerry 
Brown just approved: The “Y es Means 
Y es” policy that college campuses were 
required to implement this past year 
will soon be required to be taught in 
all schools that offer sex education. 
Although it’s sad that this is something 
that has to be taught — seriously, what 
is wrong with humanity sometimes? 
— it’s crucial that this idea permeates 
developing minds as early as possible. 
If a “yes means yes” culture can be 
established at a young age, then 
perhaps sexual assault won’t be such a 
frequent problem.
Although it’s too soon to tell 
if this campaign has been proven 
successful on college campuses, it’s 
clear that a change in policy and 
education was necessary to combat 
this problem. Prior to this, many 
colleges had a “no means no” policy, 
but this does not encompass cases 
in which the victim was unable to 
vocalize or resist the assault. A “yes 
means yes” policy, both in colleges and high school campuses, is the 
right step toward ensuring that sex 
is safe and enjoyable. 
This bill, which is the first to 
mandate such a policy in high 
schools, updates California’s existing 
sex education policy to include 
information about sexual assault, 
including dating abuse and affirmative 
consent. Sexual education is more 
than watching someone put a condom 
on a banana; it’s a serious topic 
that demands serious discussion. 
Co-author of the bill Hannah-
Beth Jackson (D-Santa Barbara) 
concurs: “It’s really critical that we 
start addressing issues of healthy 
relationships and sex and how to 
handle one’s sexuality and sexual 
behaviors at the earliest possible 
stage, because what we are seeing 
in our culture today is clearly 
sexual violence that is completely 
out of control and at epidemic 
levels. ” Sexual assault cases can 
quickly turn into a “he said, she 
said” conundrum, but teaching 
affirmative consent and clearly 
defining what constitutes consent 
will uncloud this gray area. 
With the majority of sexual 
assault cases occurring within 
a student’s first few semesters 
of college, teaching this before students enter college will hopefully 
change these grave statistics. 
Furthermore, the Bureau of Justice 
reports that women who do not 
attend college are 1.2 times more 
likely to be sexually assaulted, so it’s 
important that students who forgo 
college receive this information and 
apply it to themselves. Though some 
students might wish to breeze through 
this sometimes-awkward topic, it’s 
important that they understand 
the problems that can be avoided if 
they follow this policy. At the very 
least, students should be taught the 
difference between active, consensual 
body language versus passive, forced 
participation in sex.
Though it might seem excessive 
to ask for an enthusiastic “yes” at 
each point on the baseball diamond, 
it’s better to have that peace of mind 
than to be accused of something 
later on. If young people can get it 
in their mind as early as possible 
that consent is crucial, then the 
culture surrounding sexual assault 
can be transformed into one of 
mutual respect and enjoyment. Even 
kindergarteners can understand 
consent — “Yes, you can borrow my 
tickle-me-Elmo” — so high school 
is the perfect time to start instilling 
this in their minds. “Yes Means Yes” Culture Begins by Educating Young Students
Vincent Pham
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Tina Butoiu
MANAGING EDITOR
Rosina Garcia
MANAGING EDITOR  
Cassia Pollock
OPINION EDITOR
Kriti Sarin
NEWS EDITOR
Jacky To
ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITOR
Allison Kubo
FEATURES EDITOR
Kyle Somers
ASSOCIATE FEATURES EDITOREDITORIAL  BOARD
The UCSD Guardian is published twice a week at the 
University of California at San Diego. Contents © 
2015. Views expressed herein represent the majority 
vote of the editorial board and are not necessarily those 
of the UC Board of Regents, the ASUCSD or the 
members of the Guardian staff. Vincent  pham 
vnp003@ucsd.edubo y, interrupted
OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 15, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
environmental visionaries would like 
to see more drastic measures to combat 
greenhouse gas emissions.
The problem is that the true 
culprit is the general population, not 
SANDAG. In San Diego, we love to 
drive cars — it’s our thing. According 
to SANDAG, the region’s population 
is expected to grow by nearly a million 
people by 2050. Soon there will be 
even more of us, and that will only 
serve to further exacerbate our lifestyle 
of gasoline consumption. Also, the 
underlying cultural perception among 
college students is that it’s impossible to 
have a life without a vehicle. Instead of 
requesting new public transportation, it is becoming more common to rely 
on informal taxi services such as Uber 
and Ly ft. Although a vocal minority 
of passionate environmentalists came 
to speak against SANDAG’s plan, the 
fact of the matter is we’re mostly a 
society of drivers, who are not driven 
to change.
SANDAG may be the 
administrative culprit, but in this case, 
its plan is an accurate re flection of 
public sentiment. A few extra transit 
lines sounds nice, sure. But what about 
the freeways? We’ d like to know where 
to drive and park our cars.
Perhaps, instead of pumping 
billions of dollars into roadways and 
public transportation, the city should 
be building upon what most San Diegans are already invested in — cars. 
But we should be reinventing them 
with green-fuel sources and electric-
powered engines. All this technology 
is available, but the city is not fully 
utilizing it. According to the Voice of 
San Diego, drivers need incentives to 
switch to green vehicles, such as special 
access to certain parking lots, exclusive 
freeway lanes and widely available 
charging stations. Instead of protesting 
SANDAG’s public transportation plans 
and blaming the city for failing to fix 
all of our problems, the average citizen 
needs to get on board. We should start 
thinking outside the box and promote 
the use of high-tech solutions that are 
worthy of a modern world. Maybe 
then, we’ll start to change our lifestyle.
REGISTER ONLINE AT AS.UCSD.EDU/SAFERIDESRegistration for FALL QUARTER IS NOW OPEN!
A.S. Safe Rides allows registered undergraduate students 
to get 3 FREE rides per quarter. Students MUST
register at least 24 hours prior to their ﬁrst ride. A.S. SAFE RIDES 
@asucsdlooking 
Exciting opportunity to work with the Made T.O. Order division of
Triton Outfitters that specializes in creating customized appar el for
student organizations and departments throughout the campus. intern? APPLY NOW!
Ć 6O&,AL ME',A Ć 'E6,*N )A6+,ON 	 %5AN',N* Ć &L,ENT 5ELAT,ON6TO -O,N T5,TON O8T),TTE56¶ NEW ,NTE5N P5O*5AM
&L,&. ON &O8N&,L ! OPEN PO6,T,ON6as.ucsd.edu
WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
Forget Public Transportation, Drivers Should Use Green Energy Sources
▶ SANDAG,  from page 4SEND YOUR 
LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGARE YOU 
FILLED WITH
RAGE YET?W EEKENDARTS AND ENTERTAINMENT EDITOR / KARLY NISSON
entertainment@ucsdguardian.org
LIFESTYLE EDITORS / BRITTNEY LU & OLGA GOLUBKOVA
lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
Around this time a year ago, I was sitting around my kitchen table in Bologna, Italy with Lily and Rebecca — 
my two favorite travel buddies — drinking wine and eating fresh baguettes with mozzarella, our weekday 
tradition. Crowding around my laptop, we perused the infamous economic airline website Ryanair for cheap 
flights to just about anywhere, where we found 
a 20 euro flight to Ibiza, Spain. Having returned 
together from Paris and Berlin, among other 
European cities, we were on a classi fiable travel 
high. So without hesitation, we booked the flight 
right then and there.
That was my life last year: an incredible mix 
of purchasing spontaneous flight tickets, getting 
lost and learning to navigate foreign cities, all the 
while meeting an unforgettable cast of characters 
along the way. In case you are new to my column, 
“Vino & Visas, ” from last year and are wondering 
why or how my kitchen table was in Bologna, Italy, 
it’s because I lived there, immersed in the UCEAP 
year-long study abroad program. Throughout the 
year, I took an array of classes ranging from an 
analysis of Dante Alighieri’s “ The Divine Comedy” 
to a mosaics art studio class at the University 
of Bologna, the oldest university in Europe. Looking to gain international work experience, I chose to do two 
internships: the first being with the city of Bologna’s youth website, translating and writing articles, followed by the 
work alongside the Human Rights Night Film Festival, which takes place in Bologna every year. Additionally, I had 
the pleasure of babysitting and teaching English to adorable Italian children, allowing me to go beyond a typical 
college student experience and observe Italian 
family life on a very intimate level. 
Besides attending university, interning and 
working, I spent a great portion of my time 
really exploring and gaining an understanding of 
Bologna. Because of its unique qualities, this city 
is extremely di fficult to characterize. Its culture is 
marked by a bunch of non-traditional, progressive 
Berkeley tropes — I’m talking drum circles, 
hippie wannabes, intellectuals with dreads, you 
name it — all masked in a medieval city with a 
gastronomic tradition that runs centuries deep. Its 
vivacity is best seen at night, when the piazzas are 
filled with students congregated around a guitar 
player or having a heated political debate while 
chain-smoking cigarettes and swigging from their 
2-euro beers. 
Apart from really getting to know Bologna, the best part of my year abroad was that I grew in unprecedented 
ways. Through actively participating in every aspect of life, seizing every moment and opportunity possible, I was 
able to fully immerse myself in a new culture, language and lifestyle. I accomplished my goal of becoming fluent in 
Italian and being able to live my life like a local in a foreign city that now feels like home.
Taking the initiative to go somewhere new and challenging yourself to adapt to a foreign way of life is something 
that I believe is so essential to supplement a higher-learning experience. Going abroad is really unique, in that you 
get to live somewhere new and meet people 
from all over the world while you’re still 
in college. I feel so lucky to have had such 
an enriching and life-changing year during 
my college career. Now I work in the study 
abroad o ffice and get to see UCSD students 
excited about all the places in the world they 
can go. Although I am sad my study abroad 
experience is over, I have to say that seeing 
people enthusiastic about their future abroad 
plans feels like the perfect culminating step to 
conclude my college career. 
So, to my dear readers who are even 
entertaining the idea of going abroad, please 
take the time to go to Study Abroad Expo on 
Wednesday, Oct. 21 at Price Center Ballroom 
West from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. and see for 
yourselves all the places in the world you can 
explore. Y ou’ll find me there, scoping out 
pamphlets for future destinations. Vinos and Visas: THE COMEBA CK
by Shelby Newallis //  Senior Staff Writer
photos courtesy of Shelby NewallisAfter living abroad and reporting on her life from across the ocean, the 
author of the column “Vino and Visas” Shelby Newallis re flects on her 
yearlong educational trip in Bologna, Italy and tells why choosing to 
studying abroad is sure to become your best college decision.WEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 8, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
This year is the 25th 
anniversary of the longest-
running Broadway musical 
“The Phantom of the Opera, ” and 
the “spectacular new production” 
by Cameron Mackintosh has finally 
arrived in San Diego. The difficulty 
of completing the show both vocally 
and technologically, along with the 
audience’s high expectations, make 
it a huge challenge to develop a new 
version that is comparable to the 
original production, which is still being performed in New Y ork and 
London. Y et the majority of those 
who have seen the show claim this 
production is the best since the 1986 
musical by Sarah Brightman and 
Michael Crawford. With the help 
of new technology, this production 
does an even better job in terms of 
bringing incredible visual enjoyment 
to the audience.
The story is still the same 
impressive love triangle that centers 
around Christine Daae (Katie Travis), a beautiful yet naive soprano; the 
Phantom (Chris Mann), a doleful, 
complicated musical genius and 
Raoul Vicomte de Chagny (Storm 
Lineberger), Christine’s other suitor. 
In this version, however, it has 
become more intense, tragic and 
glorious. While the plot remains 
unchanged, it is the thrill of stage 
effects and passion in the songs that 
makes the show sublime. 
One thing that captures the 
public’s attention is the stage design, 
which has definitely improved in 
accordance with today’s audiences’ 
taste. There is a huge, cylindrical 
fixture that rotates the stage, 
changing the backgrounds in a 
much more effective way. This 
largely reduces the time of interval 
between every two scenes. The 
iconic chandelier is, of course, 
hanging above the audience. The 
blinking crystal chandelier is even 
more extravagant and closer to the  
audience than the ones in previous versions of the play. As a result, the 
audience feels like they are a part of 
show when the chandelier falls down 
– they can’t help screaming, though 
there is no real danger. Later in the 
show, an even more striking stage 
effect is used: real flames and sparks 
suddenly appear on the stage when 
The Phantom is infuriated, enabling 
people to realize what a dangerous 
figure he is in the story.
While the orchestration and 
music is the same, the new cast 
performs the songs more energeti -
cally, and the music is made more 
affettuoso in the new production. 
This contributes to the intensity of 
the show and constantly excites the 
audience. Nevertheless, the original 
version is more captivating in the 
actors’ graceful voices and sophisti -
cated acting. The new version would 
have been more impressive vocally if 
the emotions of the characters were conveyed more meticulously. A more 
sentimental performance with a 
slower pace from time to time would 
provide a break for the audience from 
all the excitement the play brings.
This is indeed a spectacular 
production, and it is energetic, 
funny, thrilling and touching at 
the same time. It is very likely to 
attract new audiences who have 
not seen “Phantom” before with its 
unprecedented visual effects and 
expressive performance. Travis 
and Mann know how to create a 
refreshing and romantic ambience 
in the show by bringing more 
youth to the classic story. They are 
trying something different with a 
more striking visual aspect, while 
respecting the long-loved original.
—   Yidian   Huang
Staff WriterDirected by   Laurence Connor
Written by  Andrew Lloyd Webber
Starring  Chris Mann, Katie Travis, Storm Lineberger   
Runs   Oct. 7 to Oct. 18
Location  The Old Globe
Release Date April 10Mackintosh’s “ The Phantom of the Opera” turns 
the classic production into a musical spectacle.PHOTO COURTESY OF ALASTAIR MUIR Phantom   of  the  operaPLA Y   REVIEWRalph’s
Location: 8657 Villa La Jolla Dr.
Ralph’s is sure to appear on any list of La Jolla’s grocery stores. What it lacks in originality, it makes 
up with proximity, cost-e fficiency and sheer bulk of food. But even a generic supermarket has its 
particularities — and Ralph’s has its share as well.
You  m i g ht  n ot  k n ow  t h at  p a s t  m i d n i g ht ,  l e ftover pastries are packaged and sold at half-o ff.  
Additionally, there is a discount shelf by the dairy section that sells more baked goods along with other 
clearance items at half price.
While stocking up on snacks, keep in mind that both hummus and cheese are hidden in two 
different locations — behind the bread aisle and by the kosher aisle. 
And don’t forget to stop by the Starbucks kiosk, Golden Spoon or sushi counter by one of the 
entrances, and turn grocery shopping into a “wonderful pastime” — literally anytime since the store, 
including the pharmacy, is open 24 hours a day.  
Ralph’s will never be especially exciting. But it does have a lot to o ffer, and with careful inspection, 
no doubt much more.  by Adam Fisher // Sta ff Writer99 Ranch
Location: 7330 Clairemont Mesa Blvd.
A strong scent of hoisin sauce, a familiar odor of a fish market intermingled with a delicate wa ft 
of glazed BBQ pork buns straight from the oven, linger in the air, and I’ve never felt more at home. 
Coupled with seeing rows upon rows of childhood snacks — ranging from shrimp chips to lychee 
jellies — you can bet this Chinese-American girl was in no rush to leave. 99 Ranch is an ultimate tri -
fecta of the odd, the delicious and the downright questionable, making it both a delicacy to some and 
a bazaar to others. If you just so happen to be a 99 Ranch virgin, don’t be intimidated by the crazed 
shoppers pushing carts like they were in Shanghai tra ffic or the glass containers filled with intestines, 
fish heads and tubs of congealed blood. Instead, think of it as an educating and expansive experience. 
At least for me, I’ve got 99 problems but this ranch is most de finitely not one.   
by Brittney Lu // Lifestyle Co-Editor
Trader Joe’s
Location: 8657 Villa La Jolla Dr.
Positioned between a mom-and-pop-esque store and the upper echelons of W all Street grocery 
chains, Trader Joe’s has become one of the most prominent commercial international markets. 
Largely concentrated in California, its own name is conscious of its existence. That is to say, Trader 
Joe’s — despite its appropriation of the Caribbean — o ffers that one-size- fits-all aisle of international 
cuisine that isn’t your status-quo fried chicken and Wonder bread. Vegan tikka masala, pesto salmon 
and dim sum? Y ou got it. Ionized water and exotic blends of granola? Okay. Alcohol? Only for the 
legal agers. Now, it’s sensible to think that chain markets get the bad rep and rap about questionable 
authenticity and that, somehow, it’s processed all in a factory a la Sinclair. But before the matter of its 
“chain quality!” comes rupturing through the air, everyone should read the fine, point eight, Times 
New Roman font: All of Trader Joe’s products are of independent labels owned by the store and 
organic. Repeat that last word: organic.  by Christian Gella // Senior Sta ff Writer
Continental Deli
Location: 4150 Regents Park Row
Located next door to La Jolla’s all-time favorite, Regents Pizza, Continent Deli is a place you may 
have passed a thousand times but never dared to go inside. Indeed, this Eastern European place might 
seem intimidating for a newcomer, especially because of its notoriously mediocre customer service. 
Workers at the deli tend to run two extremes — stereotypical Russian ladies will either fire a million 
questions at you before you even get a chance to familiarize yourself with bizarre names on boxes, jars 
and cans or ignore you a fter they realize you do not speak Russian. 
However, do not let initial intimidation discourage you from getting acquainted with Eastern 
European treats that you will never find anywhere else in the area. Continent Deli presents a wide 
assortment of imported non-perishables to restock your strategic reserves as well as deli items made 
fresh on the spot. Whether you would like to get some pilaf rice “for here” or take rye bread, bologna 
and bags of delicious, one-of-a-kind Russian and Polish candy to go, Continent Deli will help you 
cross the gastronomic ocean and discover a new culinary terra incognita.   
by Olga Golubkova // Lifestyle Co-Editor
Sick of dining hall food? The UCSD Guardian lifestyle writers head to local 
grocery stores, with di fferent goals in mind, to give you the ultimate La Jolla 
food-shopping experience that’s as diverse as the “ethnic foods” aisle. What’s in Store?
PHOTO BY OLGA GOLUBKOVA /UCSD GUARDIAN8     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 15, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  WEEKEND
In spite of a sharp and well-
aimed script, “99 Homes” fails 
to wholeheartedly confront 
America, which inexplicably bails 
out its cheaters and blames its losers. 
Due to empty and lifeless direction, 
the film is unable to pierce through 
the nation’s thick skin and disrupt the 
corruption embedded underneath. 
Set shortly a fter the 2000s 
American housing crisis, “99 
Homes” follows Dennis Nash, an 
unemployed construction worker, 
after he, his mother and his child are evicted from their family home. 
Rick Carver, the real estate agent 
who carried out their eviction, o ffers 
Nash a position at his firm, which a 
desperate Nash gratefully accepts.
That is, until he realizes how 
dirty his duties are. Carver has 
Nash stealing appliances, cheating 
vulnerable homeowners and evicting 
families just like his. Though 
devastated by the immorality 
of his new career, Nash makes a 
fortune o ff of cheating as Carver 
repeatedly pats him on the back for it, encouraging him to take advantage 
of what his country allows him to do.
Though Andrew Gar field supplies 
a heartfelt leading performance as 
Nash, Michael Shannon steals this 
film with his powerful portrayal 
of Carver. As Gar field is hitting all 
of his emotional cues, Shannon is 
soaring through various layers of 
personality and purpose, exuding 
an intimidating yet warm presence 
that brings the complexity of the 
screenplay to life. In his elegant, 
intense diatribes — which take you 
from his humble background through 
his courageous, though questionable, 
rise to fortune — you see his doubt 
and the conviction that suppresses 
it. His eyes, his twitches, reveal a 
boy from a painful and merciful past 
hiding inside of a man who would do anything to leave the boy behind.
Furthermore, the screenplay 
lays the foundation for an 
engaging and thought-provoking 
experience. Its careful presentation 
of each character as both flawed yet 
understandable made it di fficult to 
definitively take a side, the mark of 
a truly challenging story. Beyond its 
performances and script, however, 
the film fails to engage and excel. 
Visually, for instance, there was 
much to be desired. Possessing a free-
flowing and informal appearance, the 
look of the film somewhat resembled 
that of a reality television show. 
Though this stylistic choice had 
intriguing potential, director Ramin 
Bahrani used it poorly, moving the 
camera to merely follow the characters 
wherever they went. Rarely did it feel as if he was shi fting or framing with 
any intention, thus draining the story 
of much of its inherent liveliness and 
color. Had Bahrani instead shot the 
film in the vein of a thriller, which 
his tension-heavy script lends itself 
to, it would be much easier to invest 
emotionally in his characters and 
their stories as opposed to merely 
watching things happen to them.
Nonetheless, the film still serves 
as a solid, transparent window 
through which you can gaze upon 
America’s dishonesty from a distance. 
Whether you want to engage with its 
challenging script or study Shannon’s 
ferocious performance, “99 Homes” is 
worth at least your divided attention.
—  JACKY  TO 
Staff WriterFILM   REVIEW
Directed by   Ramin Bahrani
Starring  Andrew Gar field, Michael Shannon, Laura Dern, Noah Lomax
Rated  R
Release Date  Oct. 9“99 Homes” is an arousing but tame think piece. 99   homesPHOTO COURTESY OF BROAD GREEN PICTURESWEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 15, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
PHOTO COURTESY OF TWENTIETH CENTURY FOXIf  I   Should  go   before   you
by   Peter   mcinnis 
Release Date Oct. 9City and Colour’s newest release marks a 
startling shi ft from a  folk to blues rock band.ALBUM   REVIEW
City and Colour emerges for a 
new album a fter champion -
ing the old folk vibe of the 
new indie community. The Cana -
dian singer-songwriter Dallas Green 
began recording in 2005 and has 
cemented his name with four stellar 
albums of poetic artistry. In e fforts 
to keep the focus on the music and 
off of his personal life, he titled 
his act “City and Colour, ” a clever 
reference to his first and last names. 
His crooning voice and passionate 
words have propelled him to suc -
cess, with his last two albums reach -
ing the top of the Canadian music 
charts. Green’s latest release, “If I 
Should Go Before You, ” brings a 
Nashville-blues feel to his heartfelt 
lyricism, adding powerful electric 
guitar and mournful melodies to 
support his re flective writing. 
For years, City and Colour 
brought an energy to folk music with 
heavy ri ffs that provided structure 
for the lyrical depth of each song. 
“Comin’ Home” from the album 
“Sometimes” (2005) uses a dynamic 
acoustic pattern with a simple yet 
compelling melody to embody 
the forlorn message of travelling 
and loneliness. “If I Should Go 
Before Y ou” continues to illustrate 
dark ideas, including death, regret 
and loss. Green flexes his lyrical 
prowess, maintaining the intense 
and thoughtful lines that elevate his 
music and connect with listeners. Even though his lyrics stayed 
true to the brooding quality that 
characterized his earlier work, in 
his newest release City and Colour 
switches from a folk singer-song -
writer to a blues/alternative rock 
star. Green loses the captivating folk 
elegances that intrigued listeners in 
his earlier work as he strives to find 
a new, electric sound. The plodding 
9-minute opening track, “Woman, ” 
features a single verse repeated 
with percussion and harsh, heavily 
distorted guitar. Despite the power 
in the words, the cacophonous ri ffs 
lack the essence to make them great 
Nashville hits and alienate the fans 
that fell in love with “ The Girl. ” His 
rougher style is hard to stomach 
compared to the acoustic quality of 
his previous albums. 
“If I Should Go Before You” 
shows thematic depth and a robust 
shift to blues and alternative rock 
for Green, adding energy to his 
music. Green worked with a full 
band, in contrast to older acoustic 
albums, leaving me wondering if 
the days of the weary, travelling, 
folk singer-songwriter in Green are 
over, and are being replaced by a 
dreary exploration into Nashville 
recording studios. 
—   Peter mcinnis
  Staff Writer
Wolf Alice delivers a divine mixture of grunge and 
guitars for an energetic San Diego performance.CONCERT   REVIEW
The Irenic is nearly 
indistinguishable: A modern, 
well-manicured church, whose 
Sunday services were only recently 
exchanged for amps and pop-up 
bars, sits nestled in a quiet North 
Park neighborhood. And though the 
drummer from Drenge — the second 
opening band for headliner Wolf Alice 
— began to hold a faux service halfway 
through his set, those who showed up 
to church on Oct. 12 were not there 
for religious reasons. Or perhaps they 
were, only they sought salvation in the 
form of grungy guitar ri ffs and glori fied 
restlessness. And surely Wolf Alice’s 
cathartic, emotive shrieks and crashing 
drums brought a sense of divinity to 
the historic church, gutted of its pews 
but filled with fans anticipating a less 
conventional service. 
The line of people extending from 
the doors of The Irenic was a display 
of black-clad teens and classic rock 
junkies, all being prodded to pose with 
paper wolf-masks by an enthusiastic 
radio station representative. But Wolf 
Alice didn’t need the quirky pre-show 
props or the charmingly historic 
church to accentuate a refreshingly 
raw performance. When Ellie Rowsell 
took the stage and began strumming 
a bare, black guitar, the audience fell 
silent, entranced by the intensifying 
riffs to “Y our Love’s Whore. ” Only 
when she began to coo, “Don’t you 
want to take time and get to love 
me/ We could build a perfect world” 
did fans come out of their trances, 
breaking into a chorus that only grew 
louder with the nostalgic single “Bros. ” 
As Roswell re flected, “I’m so lucky, you are my best friend/ There’s no one 
who knows me like you do, ” a group of 
women in the front row entered into an 
ostentatiously sentimental five-person 
embrace: a fitting tribute to Wolf Alice’s 
exceptional ability to cra ft songs that 
resonate. 
Opening bands Made Violent and 
Drenge brought similar sounds to a 
stage crowned by a centered drum 
set, both pairing growling vocals with 
shrieking guitars to cra ft boisterous 
energies. The stage grew emptier with 
each set until Wolf Alice strutted onto 
a spacious sca ffold ideal for the rowdy 
spasms of their glitter-adorned bass 
player. 
Wolf Alice’s performance was 
made all the more impressive by its 
ability to overcome the venue’s faulty 
acoustics. The vocals were o ften 
muffled by overpowering guitars and drums — an unfortunate consumption 
that lessened the impact of Wolf 
Alice’s endearingly contemplative 
lyrics. But the unintentional focus 
on instrumentation brought a new 
energy to the fiercer grungy, guitar-
heavy songs toward the end of its set. 
Bangers “Giant Peach” and “Moaning 
Lisa Smile” encouraged the audience 
to jump, pulsing with the animated 
riffs and deafening drums. 
Shortly before its savory encore, 
Roswell purred, “ Are you happy 
now?” toward the end of the 
introspective, slower-paced “Blush. ” 
A man in the crowd spat back, “Y es!” 
to a roar of applause: a fitting nod to a 
powerful sermon.
—   Karl y  nisson
A&E Editorwolf  alice
at   the  irenic 
Concert Date  Oct. 12
PHOTO COURTESY OF EMILY CHENG10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 15, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDS$
Gua rdian Classi fieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedsBIKES
Fit Benny Bike for Sale - $250. Fit Benny One 
BMX bike. Like new. Matte black trans Ox 
blood fade 2015. Cost $400, asking $250. 
Listing ID: 196462680 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Schwinn 250 Recumbent Bike - $110. Great 
condition. Works well. Functions correctly. 
Listing ID: 196462679 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Raleigh Sports DL-22I - $110. The bike is in 
terrific condition. The paint is impeccable. 
Has internal gears. 700 mm rims. A 1967 
bike. Listing ID: 196462677 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
ELECTRONICS
Samsung Surround Sound and Subwoofer - 
$100. Black; great sound. 5 surround speak -
ers, 1 central sound bar speaker, and 1 sub -
woofer with all wires. Listing ID: 196462750 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
informationSuper Smash Bros Melee for the Nintendo 
Gamecube - $50. No manual. Listing ID: 
196462749 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Coaxial cable - $5. 6 feet (1.82 m), RG-6/U, 
75 Ohm. New, original packaging. Listing 
ID: 196462745 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
FURNITURE
Sectional Couch - $70. Brown sectional 
couch. Excellent condition. Just a few 
stains. No pet nor kids home. Don’t want 
to spend the time or money to clean it. 
Listing ID: 196462754 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Ikea Coffee Table - $25. White Ikea cof -
fee table. Gently used. Good condition. 
Best offer takes it, need it gone. Listing ID: 
196462753 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Couch Sofa - $50. A little worn but still 
comfy! Seat cushions have removable 
washable covers. Listing ID: 195208151 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
t
your vision,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel to 
promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies 
on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.ukLevel: 1234 Level: 1234
SUDOKU
GET INVOLVED!
Join the Associated Students
For mo re info, visit as.ucsd .edu
as.ucsd.edu
asucsd asucsdFirst Year & Transfer Senator
Applications Now Open
& much more... 
#OMG 
#LIKE US
#FOLLOW US
@ucsdgua rdianwhat do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 15, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
Game Two 
Triton freshmen forward Mary 
Reilly and mid fielder Danielle 
Nunn took center stage against San 
Francisco State on Sunday with a pair 
of goals in the last 13 minutes of play, 
pushing UCSD to a huge 2–0 victory. 
Reilly netted the game-winning goal 
at 77:52, marking her eighth of the 
season and pushing her to the top of 
the CCAA in goals scored. Nunn hit 
the target for her first collegiate goal 
in the 87th o ff a cross from the right 
from O’Laughlin.
“We started o ff very strong[ly], and 
we did lose a little energy at the end of 
the first period, Reilly said. “Luckily we found the back of the net. We just want 
to continue the winning legacy that 
[the former players] le ft behind. ”
Despite San Francisco State’s 18–8 
advantage in shots taken, senior 
Triton keeper Kelcie Brodsky held the 
Gator o ffense at bay; she registered 
her fourth shutout of the season 
with eight saves in the net. Freshman 
forward Isabella Nazario threatened 
to break onto the scoreboard for 
the gators a half an hour into the 
matchup, but Brodsky made a 
spectacular dive to deny the shot and 
hold the teams even at 0–0. She came 
through again in the 75th minute, 
leaping to snag a high shot by junior 
midfielder Vanessa Penuna a fter she 
broke through the Triton defense.“We stole it, ” Head Coach Brian 
McManus said. “It wasn’t one of their 
best performances, but [we have to] 
credit them — they got two very, very 
good goals. ”  
The UCSD women remain 
unbeaten at 6–0–4 in their last 10 
matchups against San Francisco 
State. Their record improved to 
8–4–1 overall and 4–3–1 in the 
CCAA and are currently sitting in 
fourth in the conference.
The team will be back on the road 
in a pair of tough matchups against 
Humboldt State this Friday and CCAA 
leader Sonoma State on Sunday.third in the CCAA rankings with 
the victory. It now stands at 5–4–3 
overall and 4–2–1 in the CCAA. The 
Otters, winners of three straight, 
dropped to a 7–3 overall and a 4–2 
conference mark.
Game Two
UCSD fell just short of success on 
Sunday, ending 110 minutes of play 
at a 0–0 stalemate against the Gators.
Freshman mid fielder Christian 
Cordell made an attempt to push 
UCSD into the lead in the 33rd 
minute, but his e ffort went just wide 
of the mark. Cordell made another 
effort near the half, but Gator keeper 
Daniel Boyer was there to deny. 
The Tritons came within inches of 
breaking the deadlock two more 
times in the two 10-minute overtime 
periods. Monteiro Magpayo hit a high 
shot just over the goal in the 96th 
minute; freshman forward Nathaniel 
Bloom hit a hard right-footed shot in the 108th minute that rebounded 
agonizingly o ff the right post.
Redshirt junior Cameron 
McElfresh racked up four saves to 
mark his sixth shutout of the season. 
The Tritons ended the game with a 
16–13 advantage in shots.
“We le ft a li t tle b i t o n th e field” , 
McElfresh told the Athletics 
Department. “[But] we have a really 
deep team, and it keeps us into the game for 90 or 110 minutes. ”
The Tritons are back on the 
road again this week to face its two 
toughest opponents thus far: They 
will take on Humboldt State on 
Friday, Oct. 16 and Sonoma State on 
Sunday the 18th.
TRITON
PANTRYFOOD
location: Original Student Center
email: foodpantry@ucsd.edu
phone: (858) 534-5694The mission of the Triton Food Pantry is to provide a discreet 
service to UCSD students in need of food. Our goals are to 
ensure that every student has enough energy to get through 
the day and that no student needs to give up a single meal 
for any reason. We aim to build a network of resources and 
awareness about food insecurity.
Hours subject to change in future quarters.Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri
9am–1pm 3pm–6pm 3pm–6pm 9am–1pm 9am–1pmFall Quarter Hours:Soccer Slated to Take On T op-Ranked Humboldt and Sonoma
▶ M. SOCCER,  from page 12
UCSD to Face Two T ough Opponents on the Road this Weekend
▶ W. SOCCER,  from page 12
FOLLOW US 
ON TWITTER
@UCSD_SportsPHOTO BY MEGAN LEE /UCSD GUARDIAN
readers can contact
ka tie   potts   kpotts@ucsd.edu 
readers can contact
ka tie   potts   kpotts@ucsd.edu UCSD opened its fall golf season this past 
Monday and Tuesday at the Sonoma State 
Invitational at Foxtail Golf Club. Read more 
at ucsdguardian.org!SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
MARCUS  THUILLIER
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 15, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
week  in
summar y
UCSD men’s golf came in 
sixth at the Sonoma State 
Invitational. 
Men’s tennis players Eric 
Tseng, Justin Zhang 
and Axel Bouillin made 
the round of 16 at the 
Aztec Fall Invitational.
Four new Tritons were 
enshrined into the 
Athletic Hall of Fame 
at UCSD on Sunday.6
16
4
MEN'S  SOCCER
WOMEN'S  SOCCERUCSD
UCSDUCSD
UCSDCSU Monterey Bay
CSU Monterey BaySF State
SF State3 - 2
1 - 10 - 0
2 - 0
The UCSD men’s soccer team 
jumped up two places in the California 
Collegiate Athletic Association 
standings this weekend a fter a major 
come-from-behind victory against 
CSU Monterey Bay on Friday evening 
at Triton Soccer Stadium. The Tritons 
remained in third a fter a tight game 
against San Francisco State on Sunday 
ended in a stalemate. Their record now 
stands at 5–4–4 overall and 4–2–2 in 
the CCAA.
Game One
UCSD rallied a fter the half 
in a tight game against CSU 
Monterey Bay, taking a satisfying 
3–2 comeback victory to kick o ff 
Homecoming weekend. The Otters 
struck first, notching one goal up 
on the board a fter junior defense 
Emmanuel Corona headed a corner 
kick from freshman defense William 
Blackburn into the net. Goal number 
two came in the 42nd minute when 
freshman forward Adam Voloder 
hit the target unassisted for his first career goal.
“The team is hitting their stride, ” 
UCSD Head Coach Jon Pascale told 
the UCSD Athletics Department. 
“It was a great win, but I thought 
we made it harder on ourselves. I 
am proud of the guys tonight, and 
they showed a lot of character. They 
respond and rebound very quickly. 
They really created a lot of good 
chances. ”
The Tritons’ o ffense didn’t let 
up, as they out-shot the Otters 14–8 
on the night. Freshman mid fielder 
Brandon Monteiro Magpayo came 
up big, scoring the first two goals 
of his collegiate career — one in the 
34th minute o ff a cross from junior 
midfielder Nick Palano and another 
off a  f r e e  k i c k  i n  t h e  7 6 t h .  J u n i o r -
transfer mid fielder Justice Duerksen 
notched his first goal as a Triton o ff a 
penalty kick in the 53rd to equalize.
“It felt good, ” Monteiro Magpayo 
said. “It was nice to finally have an 
opportunity to finish it. ” 
UCSD jumped from fifth to WOMEN'S  SOCCER
Soccer Settles for Stalemate at Home
Women tie CSUMB to open weekend, end on high note with shutout against SF SU.
The Triton women’s soccer team 
started their weekend o ff with a 
disappointing 1–1 tie against CSU 
Monterey Bay on Friday but broke 
through on Sunday with a 2–0 victory 
in the final minutes of play against San 
Francisco State. A fter Sunday’s play, 
UCSD stands at fourth in the California 
Collegiate Athletic Association and 
improved their record to 8–4–1 overall 
and 4–3–1 in league play.
Game One
Despite a massive o ffensive e ffort, 
UCSD settled for a 1–1 tie a fter two 
10-minute overtime periods against 
CSU Monterey Bay. Sophomore 
forward Katie O’Laughlin posted the 
first goal on the scoreboard in the 
51st minute, dribbling up the right 
flank then touching a lucky shot past 
an unprepared Monterey Bay keeper 
into the lower le ft corner of the net.
Sophomore mid fielder Jordyn 
McNutt nearly doubled the Tritons’ 
advantage in the 59th minute, but 
her e ffort shot back o ff the crossbar. Seconds later Otter keeper Victoria 
Whyte denied the UCSD o ffense 
once again, fully extending to smack 
McNutt’s free kick away from the goal.
The Otter o ffense finally struck 
gold in the last minutes of the 
game. Senior forward/mid fielder 
Regan Porteous fired a right-footed 
shot into the bottom of the goal to 
equalize in the 84th minute, sending 
the two teams into overtime. Despite 
strong e fforts from junior mid fielder/forward Kiera Bocchino in the 92nd 
and sophomore mid fielder Brie Diaz 
in the 95th, the Tritons were unable 
to take the lead back and settled for 
the stalemate. 
UCSD’s record shi fted to 7–4–1 
overall and 3–3–1 in the conference, 
while Cal State Monterey Bay moved 
to 3–8–1 overall and 0–5–1 in the 
conference.
See W. SOCCER , page 11PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE /UCSD GUARDIANPHOTO BY GEOFF PALOMINO /UCSD GUARDIAN
MEN'S  SOCCER
UCSD Shifts Up to Third
Tritons take victory and a draw to move up in CCAA.
By   K a t i e   P o t t s
Editorial AssistantBy   K a t i e   P o t t s
Editorial Assistant
See M. SOCCER , page 11Athletics Department recognizes outstanding athletes in annual Hall of Fame induction ceremony.
by Katie Potts // Editorial Assistant
This past Sunday, the UCSD Department of 
Intercollegiate Athletics inducted four more 
outstanding student-athletes into the Hall of 
Fame. The inductee class of 2015 includes Brian Siljander 
(men’s soccer, 1987–90), Louise “LuLu” Schwartz 
(women’s volleyball, 1980–83), Erica Hinckson (track 
and field, 1990–93) and John Flowers (swim and dive, 
1990–94).
Siljander led the men’s soccer program to its first 
NCAA Division-III title in 1988 with an undefeated 23–0–
2 record. Schwartz and the women’s volleyball team earned 
UCSD’s first NCAA Division-III title in 1981. Hinckson 
took the NCAA Division-III title in the 100-meter dash 
in 1992 and was a 10-time All-American in her time as a 
Triton. Flowers took two individual titles and led his squad 
to five relay titles in swimming at the Division-III level.
“To succeed you need to find something to hold onto, 
something to motivate you and something to inspire 
you, ” UCSD Athletics Director Earl Edwards said. “No 
one can doubt the level of importance we have come to 
attach to sports and success in our society. Those who 
participate in sports at any level are striving for success. 
That success can be an elusive thing to attain. ”
The UCSD Athletics Hall of Fame recognizes elite 
athletes who attained success in their sport and helped 
build the legacy of UCSD Athletics to where it stands 
today. The first class of athletes was recognized in 2013; 
to date, 19 honorees have been enshrined in the Hall 
of Fame. Since the beginning of athletics at UCSD, the Tritons have won 30 team national championships and 
138 individual national titles. 1,243 student athletes have 
been named to All-American teams.
“You can be the most physically gi fted athlete in the 
world, but really, it’s 90-percent mental, ” former goalkeeper 
Siljander said about success on the field. “ Things might go 
wrong, but you just need to put it behind you and move on. 
In all of my years of playing, there was never a time where 
someone scored and I thought I couldn’t have saved it. But 
you can’t obsess over those things. ”
Along with the four Hall of Fame nominees, the 
Athletics Department recognized the 20th anniversary of 
the 1995 women’s soccer championship win.
“This is an incredible group of ladies with a great sense 
of team and camaraderie and a great work ethic, ” 1996 
graduate and women’s soccer team member Amanda 
Johnson Lee said. “We worked hard, and we played hard 
and for that we achieved great results. We started an 
impressive string of national championship [appearances]. 
It was so ful filling to win that title our senior year, and 
we will always take great pride in that season. ”
“[Playing] sports has an amazing ability to show us 
the best that we can be and the best our society can be, ” 
Edwards said. “Most of us gravitate toward the things 
we are naturally good at and the things we love doing. 
Improving and developing gives us the sense that we 
are doing well and further encourages us. It gives us 
pride in our most modest achievements, and that’s how 
it should be. ”Standing in the Hall of Fame
readers can contact
ka tie   potts   kpotts@ucsd.edu M. Water Polo
W. Volleyball
M. Soccer
W. Soccer
W. Volleyball  10/15
  10/15
  10/16
  10/16
  10/18AT CSU Long Beach
AT CSU Monterey Bay
AT Humboldt State
AT Humboldt State
AT Cal Poly PomonaUPCOMING
UCSD
GAMES