OUR GRAND 
DESIGN
IN DESIGN.UCSD, STUDENTS 
TEACH STUDENTS HOW TO 
USE DESIGN CONCEPTS 
TO SOLVE ON-CAMPUS 
PROBLEMS. FIND OUT WHAT 
THEY’RE WORKING ON.
DECENT  EXPOSURE
REGULAR  SEASON  ENDSDRESS  TO  OPPRESS
tritons hopeful  for  NCAAsopinion,  P age   4
sports,  P age  12
MONDAY
H 73 L 57TUESDAY
H 68 L 55
WEDNESDAY
H 67 L 55THURSDAY
H 66 L 55
FORECAST
VERBATIM
YOU’RE A SPECIAL 
LITTLE SNOWFLAKE, AND 
YOU NEED YOUR DAILY 
30-MINUTE SHOWER TO 
SHINE LIKE THE BRIGHT 
STAR THAT YOU ARE. 
AND IF SOME PEOPLE GO 
THIRSTY BECAUSE OF IT , 
THEN TOO BAD FOR THEM.”
 
- HOW-TO-GURU
OPINION , PAGE 4
INSIDE
LIGHTS AND SIRENS  ....... 3
QUICK TAKES  .................. 4
SYMPHONY  ..................... 6
CROSSWORD  ................ 10
COLUMN  ....................... 12“FeA TURES,  P AGE  7VOLUME 48, ISSUE 53  MONDAY , MAY 11, 2015 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
CAMPUS
School of  
Management 
Introduces 
New Minor RADY
Students will be able to 
minor in entrepreneurship 
and innovation starting 
Fall Quarter 2015.
B Y  BRUCE  B.Y.  LEE
STAFF Writer
See E&I, page 3Rady School of Management 
announced the establishment of 
a new undergraduate minor in 
entrepreneurship and innovation on 
April 29th, which will begin in Fall 
Quarter 2015.
According to an online 
press release, this minor in 
entrepreneurship and innovation 
will open up a new pathway to 
entrepreneurial opportunities that 
were previously not offered in the 
UC system.
“Undergraduate students [will 
be offered] the opportunity to 
obtain a breadth of understanding 
of business and entrepreneurship 
theory, practice and applications, ” 
the press release said. “Students 
will develop a comprehensive view 
of innovation and operations of 
both established businesses and 
startups, gain hands-on experience 
through projects and case studies, 
collaborate with peers to foster 
leadership and conflict resolution 
skills and have the opportunity to 
cultivate and expand their existing 
business ideas. ”
Rady currently offers minors 
in business and accounting and is 
now launching its third minor a 
year after proposing the plan to 
UCSD and organizing the courses 
necessary for the minor.
Assistant Dean of Rady School of 
Management Clark Jordan explained 
to the UCSD Guardian that he thinks 
the new minor has a significant value 
for students who want to pursue 
entrepreneurial careers.
“Many opportunities for our 
students may come about by working 
within a small startup company here 
in town, ” Jordan said. “I think the 
best way to become an entrepreneur 
is to learn from an entrepreneur. It’s 
getting students familiar with the 
entrepreneurial mindset. ” 
With approximately 500 and 
1200 undergraduates enrolled in the 
accounting and business minors, 
respectively, Rady offers the two 
most popular minors at UCSD.
Sexual Assault, ID Fraud 
Reported at Sun God 2015
As of Friday, the UCSD Police Department con -
firmed that statistics for crime and incidents for 
Sun God Festival 2015 would be released within 
the next two weeks, since incidents are still being reported. 
As of now, one incident of sexual battery and one incident 
of rape have been confirmed. In addition, the Office of 
Student Conduct reported 45 cases of students who sold or 
attempted to sell their UCSD IDs.
Director of Associated Students Concerts and Events 
Seraphin Raya stated official reports are not yet available 
because accuracy was emphasized this year. 
“In the past, we have been okay with reporting initial 
numbers. However, we want to ensure that the numbers 
we report are all accurate, ” Raya said. “For example, that all 
of the hospitalization numbers are relevant to what we are 
concerned about and that they are not double counted (i.e. 
someone that goes to detox and then gets sent to the hospital 
should only be reported under the hospitalization figure). ” 
Although the official statistics are not available, Raya 
discussed how the number of detox cases increased this 
year and that the number of overall incidents stayed the 
same in comparison to past years. In addition, the number 
of Responsible Action Protocol cases doubled from last year, 
and approximately 10 percent of students admitted into 
detox used RAP . 
Raya stated that the focus of the Sun God Task Force is 
on prevention and not on detox numbers. 
“While our detox numbers rose, the number of students 
being hospitalized decreased greatly, Raya said. “Our focus 
on the high-risk intoxications seemed effective. ”
Although consumption of alcohol and drugs at the festi -
val can be regulated on site, according to Raya, sexual assault 
prevention is more precarious.
“For things like alcohol and drugs, we are able to imple -
ment means to reduce access and consumption. However, 
for sexual assault, this is a lot harder. I think continued 
dialogue, telling folks to treat each other like human beings, is important, ” Raya said. “I hope that whoever is in my 
position next year makes it a priority to work with campus 
resources to educate students on signs to look out for and 
what to do when a friend may be going off with a stranger 
or when they are exposed to unwelcome contact. ” 
Regarding the sale and purchase of IDs, Raya com -
mented how this could cause problems for individuals who 
did not violate policy.
“Giving someone your identity allows them to pose 
as you to police officers or at detox, ” Raya said. “This 
could result in trouble for someone who might not have              
done something. ”
Students who attempted to buy and sell IDs will be found 
in violation of community standards sections of the Student 
Conduct Code, specifically Non-Academic Dishonesty and 
Misuse of University Identification. Typical sanctions for 
these violations are exclusion from Sun God Festival 2016, 
non-academic probation for a year and the completion of 
the Practical Decision Making Reflection and Assessment.
According to Director of Student Conduct Ben White, 
the number of incidents was comparatively high to previ -
ous years.  
“We typically receive two to three such incidents each 
year, but this year’s numbers are significantly higher, ” White 
told the UCSD Guardian. “The biggest factor is that we 
noticed a high number of offers to sell/buy on the UCSD 
buy-and-sell page while investigating a related incident. ”
White stated that these particular incidents were report -
ed to the Office of Student Conduct but that the office does 
not actively monitor social media to find Student Conduct 
Code violations.
A.S. Vice President of Student Advocacy Ryan Huyler 
described how sales that did not go through are still punish -
able by the Student Conduct Code.
“It is a clear violation, even if they never followed 
through, as the Code applies to intent to commit as well, ” 
Huyler said. “While I may not agree with the Office of   B y  TINA  BUTOIU     NEWS EDITOR
See SGF , page 3
UCSD baristas competed in the “Wednesday Night Throwdown” coffee art competition held in the Muir Wood Coffee House. 
Photo by Christian Duarte / UCSD Guardian.
SUN GOD FESTIVAL2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 11, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG N EWS
DIGITAL MONKEYS By Jeff Lau
Registration for SPRING Qtr is NOW open!
Register online at 
as.ucsd.edu/saferides
A.S. Safe Rides allows registered undergraduate 
stude nts to get 3 FREE rides per quarter.
Stude nts must register at least 24 hours
prior to their first ride. A.S. Safe Rides 
asucsd asucsd
DO Y OU TWEET? WE DO!
@UCSDGuar dian
@UCSDGuardianFOLLOWUS NOW!
...yes, now!
@UCSDGuardian#OMG! Follow us on Twitter #NOW! The California State Senate 
approved a bill to remove the term 
“alien” from the California Labor 
Code on May 1. Sen. Tony Mendoza 
(D-Artesia), chair of the Senate 
Labor and Industrial Relations 
Committee, introduced SB 432 this 
past February. 
Currently, the term “alien” is used 
to refer to “any person not a citizen 
or national of the United States, ” 
according to the Legal Information 
Institute of Cornell University Law 
School. The term “alien” has a long 
history in the U.S. and has been 
included in laws, such as the Alien 
and Sedition Acts in 1798, which 
granted the early U.S. government 
the power to deport foreigners 
deemed dangerous to the country. 
Furthermore, the terms “illegal 
alien” and “unauthorized alien” are 
frequently used in U.S. laws and statutes.
Mendoza feels that the term 
holds a negative connotation and 
should no longer be used.
“The time has come for California 
to remove the term ‘alien’ from the 
state’s Labor Code, ” Mendoza said 
in a press conference. “ Alien is now 
commonly considered a derogatory 
term for a foreign-born person and 
has very negative connotations. 
SB 432 will modernize the Labor 
Code and removes the term ‘alien’ to 
describe a person who is not born in 
or a fully naturalized citizen of the 
United States. ”
Mendoza added that the term 
“alien” can become problematic in 
the hiring process and troublesome 
for new immigrants looking for jobs.
“The word ‘alien’ and any law 
prescribing an order for the issuance 
of employment to ‘aliens, ’ have no 
place in the laws of our state and, 
more importantly, should never be 
the basis of an employment hiring, ” 
Mendoza said. “SB 432 will delete this outdated, discriminatory and 
unnecessary reference in state law. ”
The Online Journal of the 
Migration Policy Institute reported 
that, in 2013, there were 41.3 million 
immigrants residing in the U.S. This 
means that 20 percent of the world’s 
migrants live in the U.S. The journal 
also reports that when including 
the children of immigrants in the 
U.S., that number then becomes 
80 million. Essentially, this reveals 
that over 25 percent of the U.S. 
population is either first or second 
generation. Additionally, the U.S. 
Department of Treasury reported 
that 10.8 percent of all firms are 
owned by immigrants.
Mendoza further elaborated on 
this issue by stating that California 
has numerous immigrants and that 
the term “alien” is unnecessary.
“California is among the top 
destination states for immigrants in 
the U.S., ” Mendoza said. “Given the 
abundant evidence of their many 
contributions, it is imperative that any derogative references to foreign-
born individuals be repealed from 
s t a t e  l a w.”
Supreme Court Justice Sonia 
Sotomayor also finds the term 
“alien” offensive.
“To call them illegal aliens 
seemed and does seem insulting 
to me, ” Sotomayor said in a 
speech about immigration at Y ale                            
Law School.
CNN news correspondent 
Charles Garcia also pointed out 
that calling individuals illegal aliens           
is misleading.
“The term illegal alien suggests 
that individuals, rather than actions, 
are unlawful, ” Garcia said in a            
news conference.
SB 432 will soon go into effect 
after being approved by the Senate 
with a unanimous vote. CALIFORNIA
 SB 432 author Sen. Tony Mendoza argued that associating this term with foreign residents is offensive and outdated.
B Y  OMKAR  MAHAJAN
Contributing WriterNew Senate Bill Removes “ Alien” from California Labor Code
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGsee more atOmkar mahajan   omahajan@ucsd.edu readers can contactThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and 
Thursdays during the academic year by UCSD students 
and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this 
newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, 
without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2015, all 
rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible 
for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The 
views expressed herein do not necessarily represent 
the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of 
California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian 
is funded by advertising. Hi mom!
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Aleksandra Konstantinovic
Andrew E. Huang  
Taylor Sanderson
Tina Butoiu
Kriti Sarin
Cassia Pollock
Marcus Thuillier
Teiko Yakobson
Jacqueline Kim
Kyle Somers
Nilu Karimi
Siddharth Atre
Jonathan Gao
Joselynn Ordaz
Sherman Aline
Elyse Yang
Annie Liu
Rosina Garcia
Jennifer Grundman
Laura Chow
Vincent PhamEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
  
Associate News Editor
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Social Media Coordinator
Training and Development
Page Layout
 Allison Kubo
Distribution
Christopher Graves, Josef Goodyear, Vincent Pham
Copy Readers
Andrew Chao, Caroline Lee, Sage Schubert Christian, Marissa 
Barber, Heejung Lim
Editorial Assistants
Shelby Newallis, Karly Nisson, Mario Attie, Katie Potts,
 Allison Kubo,N EWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 11, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
Student Conduct using their time and 
resources to go after these types of 
violations, as they are not relatively 
harm-inducing, it is their choice as an 
office. I just hope that they are reason -
able with the sanctioning of these types 
of cases. ”
Students who are accused of violat -
ing policy are able to have their sanc -
tions reviewed, but the burden of proof 
is significantly lower than in criminal 
court, according to Huyler.
“Our burden of proof for hearing 
student conduct cases is a preponder -
ance of the evidence, that it is more likely than not or 51-percent likely you 
committed the allegation, ” Huyler said. 
“Students should just own up to what 
they did and receive the punishment 
unless, of course, the student didn’t do 
what they said. Then they should most 
certainly challenge the allegation. ” 
Raya believes that the Sun God 
Festival incidents are part of a greater, 
widespread problem. 
“The Task Force needs to stop 
thinking of this event, as the cause 
of all student misbehavior and focus 
on how events like Sun God Festival 
and Deejays & Vinylphiles Club events 
are symptoms of a greater cultural 
problem, ” Raya said. “It’s time that the Sun God Task Force renames itself to 
be the Campus Culture Task Force. 
The people in that group are the most 
influential members of student affairs 
on campus and have produced some 
really great campuswide efforts (e.g. 
the Floaties Program, the Stay With 
Me campaign). ”
Students are encouraged to report 
sexual assault incidents at the Sexual 
Assault Resource Center at (858) 534-
5793 and any other incidents to the 
UCSD Police Department at (858) 
534-4357.ASCE Director: Task Force Should Focus on Greater Cultural Problem
▶ SGF , from page 1LIGHTS & SIRENS
Lights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edu.Friday, May 2
1:49 a.m. Welfare Check
Two males were dragging an 
intoxicated female near the 
Thurgood Marshall College 
Apartments. Transported to detox.
2:10 a.m.: Medical Aid
A young adult female in Harlan 
Hall suffered an asthma attack. 
Paramedics responded.
11:49 a.m.: Noise Disturbance
A band was playing in the Gilman 
Parking Structure and setting off 
car alarms.  Information only.
5:35 p.m.: Citizen Contact
A subject received prank text 
messages from an unknown 
party regarding family members. 
Information only.
7:34 p.m.: Disturbance
A Birch Aquarium events manager requested a welfare check for four 
heavily intoxicated females at a 
fraternity formal, whose members 
were attempting to hide the 
subjects from event security. Checks 
OK.
10:40 p.m.: Armed Suspicious 
Person
An adult male reportedly stated 
to others in the area that he had a 
gun. Referred to San Diego Police, 
checks OK.
11:12 p.m.: Disturbance
Possible fight between large group 
broken up near the Village West 
Building 8. Field interview.
— ANDREW E. HUANG
Managing EditorRady Offers Two Most Popular Undergraduate Minors at UCSD
FOLLOW US ON TWITTER
@UCSDGuardian
“Coﬀee With a Prof” is back!
We are very happy with the student/faculty participation and will continue the CWAP program.
 Please stop by any college Student Aﬀairs Oﬃce to pick up a voucher. All students are welcome to participate. All colleges are included. Please take advantage of this great opportunity to get to know your faculty member by visiting over a free cup of coﬀee! This program is for you! We encourage you to participate and enjoy the opportunity!We will provide each student with a beverage voucher to be turned into any participating coﬀee vendor at the time of their visit. Each student may participate twice per quarter. Student must have veri/f_ication that their invitation was accepted by their Professor or T.A., along with the date they have arranged to go (the week of it is /f_ine) BEFORE they request a voucher.
Participating Vendors: Art of Espresso Café, Cups Outdoor Café, Fairbanks, 
Perks, Muir Woods Coﬀee House
Coﬀee-with-a-Prof is a program sponsored by the Oﬃces of the College Deans of StudentAﬀairs’ and is funded by The Oﬃce of the Vice Chancellor of Student Aﬀairs. It allows studentsto invite a professor, faculty member, or graduate teaching assistant out to coﬀee or tea at one of the participating coﬀee vendors. It encourages students to cultivate a student-professor or T.A. relationship outside of the classroom in a more casual setting.Pick Up Your Free Coﬀee Voucher At Your college’s Student Aﬀairs Oﬃce! While Jordan anticipates a 
similar level of popularity with 
the new minor, with about 100 
undergraduates expected to be 
enrolled, he explained that the 
popularity comes from the idea that 
entrepreneurial skills and knowledge 
are necessary for many professional 
jobs in contemporary society.
“We’ve always felt that students 
[need entrepreneurial skills], 
regardless of what major they were 
going to go into, ” Jordan said. “In any 
organization or business, there are certain functional business activities 
that go on. There are marketing 
aspects to it, [and] there are 
financial aspects to it: operational, 
interpersonal and teaming skills. 
They are all important. ”
Incoming A.S. President 
Dominick Suvonnasupa, a member 
of the Undergraduate Investment 
Society, expressed that the new 
minor will help students materialize 
their ideas. 
“I think it’s a huge step in a 
right direction. Especially with a 
school like UC San Diego, we [have] 
so many great ideas in terms of engineering and computer science, ” 
Suvonnasupa said. “I think it’s about 
time we provided students with 
business aspects of creating new 
ventures and pushing their ideas to 
the next level. ”
The minor in entrepreneurship 
and innovation consists of 28 units, 
composed of eight units of practicum 
courses, eight units of electives and 
12 units of core courses.▶ E&I, from page 1TINA   BUTOIU   CBUTOIU@ucsd.edu readers can contact
BRUCE  B.Y.  LEE   BYL019@ucsd.edu readers can contact4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 11, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CASSIA POLLOCK
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
THE WORKAHOLIC CULTURE OF UCSD CONTINUES TO PROLIFERATE THE LIVES OF STUDENTS AS CONSTANT REMINDERS 
OF THE COMPETITIVE WORK FORCE WHICH STUDENTS WILL ENTER, CREATING STRESSFUL ENVIRONMENTS.
Every quarter, UCSD students are faced with a 
new set of classes. With every class comes midterms, 
quizzes, papers and finals, and you can feel the 
overall stress level growing on campus every week. 
On top of that, having a social life in college is 
asking students to balance a busy quarterly schedule 
with extracurricular activities, sports and naps. 
College students go through longer-than-average 
workweeks, and this stressful reality does not always 
push for better results. The National College Health 
Assessment polled students and found that 25 percent 
of them said that they experienced poor grades or 
unenrolled from classes as a result of stress. 
The stressful environment in which students 
develop here at UCSD is very goal-oriented and 
may discourage the student body from exploring 
other forms of individual accomplishments. 
Forbes magazine reports “the Global Benefits 
Attitudes survey found that levels of workplace 
disengagement significantly increase when 
employees experience high levels of stress. The 
study of 22,347 employees across 12 countries 
including the U.K. and U.S. revealed that over half 
of those employees claiming to be experiencing 
high stress levels reported they were disengaged. ” 
A stressful environment is not conducive to 
higher productivity for the students. Some UCSD 
graduates have succeeded in fields that had nothing 
to do with their studies. Students have to enjoy more 
of the learning environment instead of suffering from 
the pressure of working and getting results. Finally, 
even with the pressure, we have to learn not to be 
disappointed and demoralized by every setback in 
order to find more long-term success. 
—  MARCUS THUILLIER
Senior Staff WriterIncreased Anxiety Levels May Equal 
Lower Productivity for StudentsSometimes it’s hard not to hate the Puritans. I suppose it’s true that 
America with a capital A wouldn’t exist without them, but gosh darn 
it if their values — which continue to saturate our society — aren’t 
more often than not an enormous drag. And for women, “drag” may be 
putting it lightly.
A 5-year-old girl from Texas was recently strapped in a sweater and 
pants on her first day of school for donning a rainbow-striped sundress. 
Another 18-year-old Texan student was sent home from school for wearing 
leggings and a large shirt that left very little skin revealed. In a school 
district in Oklahoma, female dress code violators were called “skanks” by 
their superintendent. A female student here at UCSD, just last week, was 
cited by police officers on library walk for being topless. These incidences 
have made it increasingly clear that the bar for “indecency” is held much 
higher for women than it is for men in our society. Why? 
Well, here’s what school administrators will tell you: Y oga pants, 
spaghetti straps and shorts that don’t reach girl’s fingertips are distracting 
to boys in the classroom. The letter of the law, in most parts of the U.S., 
will tell you that, while it is perfectly acceptable for a man to walk around 
without a shirt, a woman can land up to six months in county jail and be 
fined up to $1,000 for revealing her nipples in public just once. If there’s 
one example of institutionalized sexism in the U.S., dress code policies and 
indecent exposure laws might just fit the bill. These are laws that have been set in place because of specific notions about women that are widely held 
in society, but it is these very notions that our society should be actively 
combating not perpetuating.
On her “Sex Positive” Y ouTube channel, Laci Green describes the effects 
dress codes (and the ideology backing them) can have on the young girls 
they target. When you tell an impressionable young girl that she needs 
to “cover up” and to dress in a certain way, so as not to “distract boys, ” 
two very dangerous things happen: The girl learns to be ashamed of her 
body and to view herself as a sexual object that needs to be guarded from 
violation, and the girl learns to view herself not in terms of how she sees 
herself but in terms of how boys and men view and value her. The sort 
of mentality that sexist dress codes frame perpetuates the exact problem 
it attempts to curtail; it ensures that girls continue to be sexualized — 
thereby, “distracting” — starting from an age at which, in the words of 
the enraged father of the aforementioned 5-year-old girl, you could “cut 
her hair and put her next to a boy with no shirt on and she [would be] 
fundamentally identical. ” 
Now here’s the problem with sexualization. Sure, we all like to feel 
sexy, look sexy, be considered sexy — boys and girls alike. There’s nothing 
wrong with acknowledging and enjoying sexuality. The trouble arises 
when sexuality is used to shame, victimize and define the female body as 
an object with the primary purpose of bringing pleasure, be it sexual or Decent Exposure
Various cases of  gender discrimination, apparent in dress codes which disproportionately 
target females, have become the focal point of  controversies regarding women’s education.
▶ see DRESS CODE,  page 5EDITORIALS
You may have heard about 
the drought affecting large 
swaths of our state, with 
entire lakes turned into muddy 
swamps and citizens of certain cities 
only seeing running water at three 
in the morning. 
Some people think we should 
all be pitching in to cut back on 
our water use in order to prevent 
a large-scale crisis that could leave 
millions without adequate water. 
But screw them. Y ou’re a special 
little snowflake, and you need your 
daily 30-minute shower to shine like 
the bright star that you are. And if 
some people go thirsty because of 
it, then too bad for them. Luckily 
for you, the UCSD Guardian has 
created this handy, how-to guide 
to wasting so much water that you 
singlehandedly drain a small lake.
Wasting water is made easy 
with a few simple modifications to 
your daily routine. For example, 
when you take a shower, make sure 
to turn on the faucet and then go 
about your primping. Y ou’ll want 
to let that water run for at least 10 
minutes before you actually step 
into the shower to make sure it’s a 
temperature that’s acceptable to your 
sensitive, delicate skin. While you’re 
waiting for the water to meet your 
expectations, you can also waste 
more by running the sink faucet to 
brush your teeth, wash your face or 
just splash some water around on 
the countertops. This is the perfect 
time to lazily scrub at the toothpaste 
gunk in your sink.
Sure, farmers in the Central 
Valley might not be able to grow 
food this summer, leading to wide -
spread shortages and apocalypse-
style riots over pantry staples, but 
thanks to your morning routine, 
you’re going to look like a sexy 
beast today, and the rest of your 
house is going to look great too.
As your bathroom is leaking 
more water than a rainforest, take 
a moment to reflect upon how 
running water is your right as an 
American citizen. Be sure to take 
that for granted. When it stops 
working for other people, surely it 
won’t stop flowing for you. 
Finally, you’ll want to avoid 
blame for the water crisis by pointing 
fingers at various bogeymen around 
the state. If you’re from the Bay Area, 
try muttering angrily about those 
darn polluting, water-wasting farm -
ers, and if you’re a water-wasting 
farmer, get really frothy at the mouth 
about Hetch Hetchy and the Delta 
smelt. Residents of Los Angeles 
should boast about how the city is 
one of the few with adequate water 
supplies for its citizens. Rest assured 
in the fact that this drought couldn’t 
possibly last longer than the city has 
stored water for.
Y our goal here is to spew as many 
drought-related buzzwords as pos -
sible without actually doing anything 
to alleviate the drought. That way, 
you’ll appear brilliant and simultane -
ously use all the water your heart 
desires without suffering any pesky 
consequences for your actions. 
If you follow our guide, you’ll 
become a water-wasting champion 
in no time. Be sure to stock up on 
bottled water for when Mad Max-
style gangs patrol the countryside 
looking for water!How to Be 
The Best
Water 
Waster Ever
How-to Guru
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
QUICK TAKES 
For lots of students at UCSD, their health isn’t 
a huge priority. Many students have pulled an all-
nighter in the last few weeks during the thick of 
midterms season. Too often is personal well-being 
placed on the backburner. In a survey conducted 
by the Associated Press and MTV for college 
students, it was found that 85 percent of students 
feel stressed out every day. No surprise there. As 
a result, universities are overloaded with twitchy 
students who constantly veer near the edge of a 
nervous breakdown. 
Fortunately, some stress can actually have 
a positive impact on student health when 
managed properly. On NBC News, psychiatrist 
Dr. Lynne Tan of Montefiore Medical Center 
stated that successful people are able to take 
stress and turn it into positive, high-energy 
emotion. The key is to avoid permanent or 
prolonged exposure to stress. If a situation 
provoking constant cortisol spikes is not 
furthering an individual’s path to a happier and 
healthier future, they should not put up with it. 
Resources at UCSD, such as The Zone, 
Counseling and Psychological Services and 
therapy fluffies offer important programs 
for helping students manage stress. Exercise, 
meditation, diet and regular sleep are all useful 
mechanisms for transforming stress into 
productivity. However, this alone is not enough. 
Students must feel positively supported through 
their endeavors. Ultimately, it’s up to the campus 
culture to promote the mentality that students 
are worthy of rest and relaxation, regardless of 
academic standing or bullets on their resume.
—  CASSIA POLLOCK
Opinion EditorWith Proper Management, Stress 
Improves Students’ Energy Levels
 Workaholicism is like a disease, that thrives 
as a plague at UCSD. Just look at the overcrowded 
lecture halls and the volume of students that 
Geisel Library attracts at this point in the quarter.
However, such stress is not to be taken 
lightly. Studies have shown that stress can lead 
to a multitude of damning side effects. These 
include strengthening cancer cells, shrinking the 
brain in regions associated with physiological 
and emotional functions, welcoming depression, 
raising the risk of strokes and of acquiring chronic 
diseases. Most students probably take illnesses 
seriously when they appear, but too often stress 
is not viewed in association with these illnesses 
when it should be.
UCSD students are not always oblivious to 
such risks. According to a 2010 National College 
Health Association Survey, 60 percent of students 
sampled said that the past 12 months resulted in 
an amount of stress that was either “more than 
average” or “tremendous. ” They have requested 
information and resources for stress reduction 
and anxiety management. However, while UCSD 
has a plethora of resources available, the data 
doesn’t lie: It’s not enough. A majority of students 
are suffering from stress — something that is 
easily mitigated.
It might be tempting to lock oneself up 
in Geisel for the academic year, but a college 
education is not worth the cost of one’s physical 
and mental health. There are often severe 
consequences for long periods of exposure to 
stress. Please be sure to take care of yourselves, 
especially during midterms.
–—  JORDAN UTLEY-THOMSON
Staff WriterNegative Effects of  Workaholism 
Should Not Be UnderestimatedILLUSTRATION BY IRENE LUOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 11, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
Financial Aid Ofﬁ ce 2015–2016
complete and submit your veriﬁ cation worksheet, use the IRS Data Retrieval Tool ,If you have been selected for veriﬁ cation, 
and/or provide other information by the May 21  deadline.
www.fafsa.ed.gov
www.CalDreamAct.org
FINANCIAL AID DEADLINE
MAY 21, 2015 
JUNE 17 , 2014
MAY 1, 2010
GET YOURS.
To be considered  for the best financial aid packag e, yo u must hav e subm itted your FAFSA or Ca lifornia Drea m Act Application by 
March 2 and submit all missing documents and/or  clear all processi ng hold s listed on y our TritonLink Financial Aid checkl ist by the  
May 21st deadline.  Applications completed after the deadlines WILL NOT be considered for University Gran ts, SEOG, Work Study, 
Univers ity or Perkins Loans.   
MAY 21, 2015
WORLDFRONT WINDOW By David Juarez
merely aesthetic. According to the 
American Psychological Association, 
ample evidence indicates that 
“sexualization [of girls and women] 
has negative effects in a variety 
of domains, including cognitive 
functioning, physical and mental 
health, sexuality and attitudes and 
beliefs. ” Self-objectification, a side 
effect of dress codes, has been 
repeatedly shown to detract from 
girls’ ability to concentrate, leading 
to impaired performance on mental 
activities, as reported by the APA. 
Furthermore, violators of dress codes, 
who are disproportionately girls, 
often receive punishments, such as 
detention, suspension or are sent 
home from school. In an effort to 
curb the suffering of easily distracted 
boys, girls’ education is harmed. APA 
research also links sexualization with 
three of the most common mental health problems of girls and women: 
eating disorders, low self-esteem and 
depression. 
Obviously, female sexualization 
comes from sources other than 
school dress codes. It’s evident in the 
double standard of public indecency 
laws and in Carl’s Jr. commercials of 
supermodels eating cheeseburgers. 
What seems to be the underlying 
problem in addressing the issue is 
that the norms regarding female 
sexuality must first be violated 
and challenged before they can 
be effectively changed. This has 
been seen in the #FreeTheNipple 
campaign, in which women expose 
their breasts in pictures and in 
public in an attempt to desexualize 
that part of the female anatomy. The 
young woman recently cited near 
Geisel Library for indecent exposure 
was in fact making a statement for 
this cause. Desexualizing women 
takes charge of the situation by humanizing women and pushing 
for a shift away from objectification 
in society at large. This means 
empowering women to respect their 
bodies as a basic human birthright 
— each part of which holds no more 
inherent sexual connotation than the 
equivalent body parts of men.  
The problem isn’t that all 
men innately have uncontrollable 
libidos and will jump any woman 
who shows too much cleavage. It’s 
that boys and men are raised with 
the same puritanical norms that 
women are. The difference is that 
women come out with notions of 
self-objectification, and men come 
out with the tendency to objectify. 
Both results are problematic, and 
the solution is a shift in normative 
values regarding sexuality. Women 
should feel comfortable with their 
bodies and should dress, not to 
impress, but to feel confident and 
happy as well.Female Students Absorb Damaging Mentalities of  Self-Objectification
▶ DRESS CODE,  from page 4GOT ISSUES?
SEND YOUR 
LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 11, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
TEIKO Y AKOBSON
features@ucsdguardian.org
BY THE LIGHT OF THE MOON  
by Karly Nisson // A&E Editorial Assistant
Photo used with permission of Sarah Charney
READERS CAN CONTACT Karly Nisson knisson@ucsd.eduOn the weekend of May 2, the walls of Mandeville Auditorium were 
converted into the panoramic windows of Geisel Library, and 
those with tickets to the La Jolla Symphony were transported from 
a dark theater to spacious study rooms via a video that captured the emerg -
ing moon from across campus: a fitting transportation for the premiere of 
“The Moon in La Jolla, ” Hong Kong-born Y eung-Ping Chen’s telematics 
orchestral piece based on a poem of the same name.
Chen, an award-winning composer and current UCSD Ph.D. candidate 
in music composition, relied on telematics technology to create the impres -
sion of space in his composition. Using a program similar to Skype, he 
paired an orchestral arrangement in Mandeville Auditorium with the bells 
of a carillon simultaneously being played by soloist Scott Paulson in Geisel 
Library. Images of Paulson were shown on giant screens, which acted as a 
backdrop for the La Jolla Symphony Orchestra, and the accompanying bells 
of the carillon were broadcasted throughout the theater via the Internet.
“I put the speaker on the ceiling of the hall so that people will feel like 
they are inside the library, ” Chen told the UCSD Guardian.
The result was a stunning “tele-concerto, ” an arrangement that managed 
to convey a sense of vastness, despite working to condense the gap between 
two places.
“My piece is based on the idea of distance — a distance I want to recre -
ate. I used the telematics technology to have the carillon sound be trans -
ferred to Mandeville Hall, ” Chen said. “The library is a square building, so I 
used the special audio to recreate this sense of space. It is the main strategy 
I used to recreate the idea of distance in the poem. ”
The distance conveyed in the poem “The Moon in La Jolla” is one Chen can 
relate to. Leung Ping-Kwan, the Hong Kong poet better known by pen name 
Y asi, is the author behind Chen’s inspiration. Read on April 21 at a pre-concert 
exhibition celebrating April’s National Poetry Month at Geisel Library, it is one 
that attempted to find the likeness between two different places and languages.
“The poem is by a poet who came from where I am from — he is a 
Hong Kong poet who studied at UCSD and wrote the poem when he was 
in his first year. The poem is about the uncomfortable feeling he had in a foreign place, ” Chen said. “He had to use another language to describe the 
image that he wanted to describe in Chinese, so I feel that the particular 
poem called ‘The Moon in La Jolla’ is also about the difference and the 
challenge of translating languages. ”
In his composition, Chen captures this uncomfortable feeling as he 
creatively expands the area of the theater. But he softens this distance by 
using an instrument he says “recalls certain memories” to revive a sense of 
nostalgia he’s since developed for his time spent at UCSD.
“I hear the sound of the hour when I am on campus, so the carillon 
sound contributes toward the feeling and the memories that I have of 
UCSD, ” Chen said. “I think that it is a special instrument, and I love the 
spectacular architectural design of the library. That building is the icon of 
UCSD, so I think that it’s meaningful. And my piece is for celebrating the 
school, so using the famous library and the instrument made a lot of sense. ”
Chen also hopes that, by capturing and sharing the feeling of having to 
search for familiarity in a foreign place, his piece will impact and celebrate 
the lives of international students on campus.
“I always found it interesting to have the feeling of distance integrated 
into the composition, so I think using the experience of being at UCSD 
— where I am so far from my home — helped me to understand more 
about that kind of feeling, ” Chen said. “I think that my musical language 
will help people to understand the experience of being an international 
student at UCSD. ”
Following the premiere of his tele-concerto, there’s no doubt that Chen 
achieved the sensations of distance and space he set out to capture. The 
carillon bells resonated throughout the auditorium in a striking comple -
mentation to the ambitious orchestral arrangement in the theater. The 
video of the library and the carillon player quickened with the tempo of the 
piece, creating a satisfying union of powerful visual aesthetic and audio. 
With his remarkable use of telematics technology and his ability to develop 
and control different atmospheres through music, Chen’s intent to deliver 
a powerfully emotive work of art in his “The Moon in La Jolla” shines 
through the night.  
FEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 11, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
In the lower level of the Humanities and Social Sciences Building, Room 
1346 is brimming not only with office chairs and neon post-it notes, but 
also ideas. The space houses Design.UCSD, aka COGS 198, a class dedi -
cated to solving campuswide issues while expanding the university’s com -
munity of aspiring designers. On Tuesday nights, 24 students gather here 
for one of the only student-run courses at UCSD and work on computer 
interfaces and other mediums to solve user-driven problems. 
The pilot project, a four-unit independent-study course under the cogni -
tive science department, is based off the former design club User Experi -
ence San Diego. Building off UXSD and taking the best features of that 
organization, Design.UCSD emerged as an amalgam of student organiza -
tion, independent study and creative brainstorm session.
Design.UCSD President Thomas Chang, a cognitive science sophomore, 
leads the class with a clear vision to expand the design community. 
“We are trying to redefine design here on campus, ” Chang told the 
UCSD Guardian. “I felt like design is so big and it encompasses so many 
disciplines. That’s why we decided to revamp [UXSD] as Design.UCSD. We 
managed to start from ground zero, but we are bigger than ever. ”
Vice President and junior cognitive science major Lizzy Cowan, who 
runs the class with Chang, says they were inspired to develop the course by 
an annual UXSD design competition. 
“We wanted to make the design competition slightly more structured 
and give people credit for it, ” Cowan told the Guardian. “The unique thing 
about the class is that Thomas and I are enrolled in the class as well, but our 
project is the class. Every week, we are changing it and prototyping it. ”
Although the class began as a competition for design majors — for -
mally the cognitive science human-computer interaction major — Cowan 
and Chang opened the class for all majors and required no prerequisites 
other than an interest in design. Their students include cognitive science 
majors mixed with economics, biology and engineering majors all working 
together in small groups.
“We created the teams without letting [the students] choose their [own] 
teams. And we wanted them to disagree since they all come from different 
backgrounds. We wanted all these different minds to start confrontation 
and see how that goes, ” Cowan said.
Each group of four specializes on a different issue pertinent to the 
UCSD community, such as dining-hall composting, collaborative spaces, 
transportation and creating an adaptive four-year plan. Chang and Cowan 
lead the students through exercises, such as creating affinity diagrams. 
These diagrams, made mostly up of colored Post-it notes, cover the walls of the classroom and help organize raw data and observations into usable 
patterns. Every week, groups post on Medium, a blog website created for 
the course, to update their findings as they narrow down the underlying 
problems and come closer to hopeful solutions. 
“What we want to drive home with the course is [to] encourage students 
to wrestle with ambiguity, ” Chang said. “When you are out in the real 
world, the actual problem isn’t given to you; it’s something that you have to 
uncover yourself. Y ou have to pick the right problems to solve. ”
During the three-hour class, students tackle issues with the guidance of 
mentors from design companies around San Diego. Many alumni involved 
in UXSD, now industry professionals, return to guide groups through the 
design process. Chang and Cowan have also developed relationships with 
companies — like Digital Telepathy, an innovative design firm in Down -
town San Diego — along the way. The Design Lab on campus, run by Don 
Norman and other industry professors, has also helped by providing funds 
and mentors to the emerging community. 
“The Design Lab is trying to drive design on this campus from top 
down, from the administration and faculty side. For us, as an org, we are 
starting from bottom up — from the students, ” Chang said. 
With the support of the faculty and mentors, the Design.UCSD partici -
pant can focus on researching the needs of the other students and making 
prototypes. The next step is applying these ideas to the campus by work -
ing with the faculty and departments. One group has even gotten approval 
from Housing, Dining and Hospitality to use a full dining hall to prototype 
its idea to minimize food waste.
As the quarter begins to wrap up, Chang and Cowan prepare to offer the 
course next fall using what they learned this year as a base. Additionally, 
students who do not finish their projects have the option of re-enrolling 
to continue to prototype and research as Chang and Cowan continue their 
own project. 
“Next quarter, it would be cool to even call the class a competition. To 
make it a contest again would give people more drive, ” Cowan added. 
Design.USCD continues to evolve to help grow the design community 
while it encourages students of all majors to do so, as well, by joining the 
organization or taking the class. The main lesson in this classroom is that 
problem-solving and design can be applied by all majors to fix problems of 
our school. 
“Everyone is a designer in their own way, ” Cowan said. 
RE DESIGNING   UCSD
by Allison Kubo // Editorial Assistant
Photos used with permission from Design.UCSD
Continued on page 88 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 11, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEA TURES
Group 0
Lizzy Cowan and Thomas Chang 
Project: Design.UCSD Class
“Lizzy and I are amateur design -
ers at the University of California, 
San Diego. As far as credentials go, 
we’re not professors. We’ve still 
got a lot to learn about our craft. 
I’m a second year, and Lizzy’s a 
third year. But we’re aware of just 
how enriching, meaningful and 
exciting project-based learning can 
be. We’re obsessed with it, and we 
believe in its relevancy for anybody 
who wants to create for people. 
Thus, we hope to share a chance 
to practice design with our peers 
through this student-run course.” Group 1
Clara Chao, Kristina Do, Andrew Du 
and Donna Yee
Project: Wayfinding
“On Critique Day, the designer from 
Mitchell [International] suggested 
that we look into wayfinding, which 
is basically the art of navigating 
around from place to place. So in 
the case of maps, orientation is 
key to knowing where you are and 
how you should begin to navigate 
around areas.”
Group 2
Aditya Bansal, Joseph Caluza, Jen 
Nguyen, Joy SampoonachotProject: HDH Composting
“Our group is making steady prog -
ress toward finding a way to ensure 
that post-consumer waste at UCSD 
will comply to the landfill’s strict 0- 
percent contamination regulations. 
With a narrower problem space to 
work with and more relevant data 
from interviews with HDH and 
field observations, we did a second 
iteration of an affinity diagram to 
try and uncover where the problem 
might be.”
Group 3
Caitlin Cagampan, Royce Gee, Ryan 
Hill and Cindy Zhang
Project: Utilizing Collaborative 
Space
“We realized further observation 
was necessary in order to really 
pin down which solutions had the 
most potential for impactful change 
of the collaborative space. So this 
week, we went into Geisel’s first 
floor collaborative space to get a 
sense of how it is currently being 
utilized. That way our observa -
tions could potentially serve as a 
“control group” when compared to 
our experimental group. This A/B 
test won’t be perfect due to time 
and class constraints, but we hope 
to create a change that will have 
lasting impact on utilization of the 
space.”Group 4  
Kavitha Arumugam, Yein Chung, Josef 
Goodyear and Crystal Yan
Project: Maximizing UCSD 
Guardian Readership
“We started to build an inspiration 
board, gathering photos of [news] 
stands and other objects, which 
could potentially serve as inspira -
tion for us. As we move closer to 
finding, prototyping and creating 
an actual solution, we are reminded 
to stay grounded in our user data. 
Hopefully, this way, we will be 
able to design for the needs of the 
Guardian and the general UCSD 
student population.”
Group 5 
Kenny Nieh, Jamie Santos, Emma 
Sayed and Shelby Triplitt
Project: Community Between 
Six Colleges
“After further discussion of our 
problem space, we decided to 
narrow in on a specific part of it: 
campus interaction, specifically the 
social aspect. One area of campus 
we’re interested in investigating 
is Library Walk, one of the busiest 
parts of campus. Once we delve 
into examining that area and ex -
ploring other possible locations, we 
eventually reach a idea to pursue 
and begin the exciting process of 
prototyping!”Group 6
Michael Hohl, Joseph Le, Alyssa 
O’Neill and Bridget Zeiger
Project: Flexible Four-Year 
Plans
“We’ve come to the consensus 
that a computer-based application 
is optimal in assisting students in 
making a four-year plan; now we’re 
out to find the ideal model. Each 
member has created an elemen -
tary prototype based on the listed 
goals. Our next step is to test these 
prototypes on our colleagues. We 
each have different interpretations 
on how we can reach these design 
goals, and we thought it would be 
best to test each of our prototypes 
individually, reconvene and discuss 
what did and did not work for each 
of our designs.”
Complied from Medium.com/@Design.UCSDContinued from page 7 : Design.UCSD’ s seven groups tackle challenges, ranging from HDH composting to footpaths across campus, and     
detail their progress on weekly blogs. Here are excerpts from their latest updates. Read more at medium.com/@DesignUCSD
Working  in  a  new  medium
PHOTO COURTESY OF DESIGN.UCSDSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 11, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
Returned Peace Corps Volunteer Diana Gomez will
discuss how you can make a difference overseas and  
return home with the experience and global perspective  
to stand out in a competitive job market.  Launch Your Career  
With the Peace Corp s
Information Session  
University of California - San Diego
Friday, May 15
12 to 2 p.m.
Career Services Center
Round Room 
 
855.855.1961 | www.peacecorps.govLife is calling. How far will you go?
www.ucsdguardian.org/advertisingT urn Your ACTIONS
into Words
Advertise your event, your product!
Advertise yourself withwomen basketball players leaping 
for dunks or women softball players 
blasting a towering 400-foot homer 
over the center-field fence.
Because of all this, women’s sports 
often struggle to stay afloat. Due 
to the low visibility, income from 
ticket sales doesn’t cover much, and 
the lack of funding typically ends in 
low player salaries. Except for the 
select few Olympic-level athletes who 
receive national team stipends, most 
other players have to hold down 
another full-time job in order to be 
financially stable. In other words, 
these women often play purely for 
the love of the game — they’re not 
committed to practicing their sport 
because of a hefty paycheck. Women 
have comparable athletic skill. It 
just might not come in the form of 
brute strength like it often does for 
their male counterparts.
Mo’ne Davis is a prime example 
of this. The 13-year-old Little League 
Baseball phenom garnered national 
attention for her strength in a sport 
traditionally dominated by boys. 
Davis throws a blistering 70 mph fast -
ball and was the first female player to 
throw a shutout in the Little League 
World Series; she gained even more 
fame after she became the youngest 
athlete ever featured on the cover of 
Sports Illustrated magazine. 
What takes attention isn’t neces -
sarily always the fact that she’s a girl, 
though. In an August 2014 interview 
with the Los Angeles Times, former 
Dodgers player and Cy Y oung Award 
winner Mike Marshall commented on 
Davis’ well-developed playing skills: 
“When you have really, really sound 
mechanics, the ball just really comes 
out of your hand perfectly. She could 
do it. ”Eri Y oshida was another female 
pitcher that Marshall noticed 
because of her “fluid, sound pitch -
ing mechanics. ” He signed her to 
the Chico Outlaws in 2010. In truth, 
it isn’t biomechanics that stands 
in the way of a woman’s success in 
athletics. Rather, it’s the stigma sur -
rounding female athletes in general. 
Though this barrier is less prevalent 
than it might have been 40, 50 or 60 
years ago, it’s still there. Men (and 
frequently other women) doubt the 
physical abilities that female athletes 
possess, saying that they are too 
weak or too delicate to match up to 
male athletes.
Prior to an April 1931 exhi -
bition game, famed New Y ork 
Y ankees slugger Babe Ruth ridi -
culed the thought of women in 
baseball in an interview with the 
Associated Press. He claimed that 
women were “too delicate. It would 
kill them to play ball every day. ” Y et 
teenage southpaw Jackie Mitchell 
was able to strike out both Ruth 
and Y ankees first baseman Lou 
Gehrig the very next day.
The point is that biomechanical 
attributes of male and female ath -
letes are similar — a 2009 entry in 
the Journal of Applied Biomechanics 
researched elite pitchers, male and 
female, and found that the similari -
ties between the two outnumbered 
the differences. Women are just as 
capable of handling the high physical 
demands of elite athletics as men are. 
It’s just a matter of changing societal 
convention to boost the female ath -
lete to the level of the male athlete. 
The two can share the spotlight, but 
it’s going to take American sports 
fans learning to appreciate a differ -
ent kind of athletic prowess to bring 
women’s sports out of the dark.Women’s Sports: Slow Rise to the Spotlight
▶ MIND OF AN ATHLETE , from page 12
The head coaches of the California Collegiate Athletic Association recognized a 
program-high 11 Tritons as honorable mentions for the All-CCAA teams last Thurs -
day, which is also a conference-high for the year, tied with Cal State Monterey Bay. 
Five of the Tritons were also elected to All-CCAA teams, with a conference-high four 
in the prestigious All-CCAA First Team.BASEBALL
All-CCAA Team Honorees Announced
All-CCAA First Team
Justin Donatella
Junior right-handed pitcher
(back-to-back first-team selections)
•	 10	CCAA	starts,	8–1	record	with	a	0.78	ERA	
and	86	strikeouts	(both	conference	highs)
•	 0.86	ERA	(fifth	nationally	in	Division-II)	and	94	
strikeouts over the season
•	 2015	CCAA	Most	Valuable	Pitcher	
Jack Larsen
Sophomore outfielder
•	 hit	.344	in	CCAA	contests	
•	 22	runs
•	 35	RBIs	(fourth	in	the	conference)
•	 24	walks	
Erik Lewis
Senior second-baseman
(back-to back first-team selections)
•	 hit	.302	in	CCAA	contests	
•	 26	runs
•	 22	RBIs
•	 league-best	30	walks	
Gradeigh Sanchez
Junior designated-hitter 
•	 third	in	the	conference	with	a	.384	batting	average
•	 second	with	a	.500	on-base	percentageAll-CCAA Second Team
Troy Cruz
Junior utility
•	 started	all	40	CCAA	games
•	 as	a	third	baseman	(.257,	28	runs,	7	doubles, 	
21 walks)
•	 as	a	pitcher	(4–4,	3.02,	54	strikeouts,	8	walks) 	
CCAA Honorable Mentions
Dan Kolodin
Senior pitcher
(3–0,	3.89,	5	saves)
Chad Rieser
Senior pitcher
(3.86,	3	saves) 	
Trevor Scott
Senior pitcher
(6–4,	2.28)
Justin Flatt
Redshirt freshman outfielder
(.292, 9 doubles, 21 RBIs)
Tyler Howsley
Sophomore shortstop
(20 runs, 13 RBIs, .964 fielding percentage)
Michael Mann
Senior first-baseman
(.367,	28	runs,	22	RBIs)
PHOTO BY EMILY TIPTON / UCSD GUARDIAN10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 11, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
CLASSIFIEDS$
Guar dian Classi/f_ieds ar e FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifieds
BIKES
TREK CRUISER 1 (ladies new, yellow) - $200. 
I have a ladies Trek Coaster 1, light yel -
low, graphics, full fenders, aluminum frame. 
Attractive looking bike! Many other Electra 
bikes for sale. In excellent unridden condi -
tion. Listing ID: 146585634 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
3 Speeds Inner Hub Men’s Bike - $60. I 
have a Next three speeds men’s hybrids 
bike. 26” aluminum wheels. Medium alu -
minum frame. Coaster brakes. Listing ID: 
146585632 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more informationTOWNIE 7d - I have some ladies Electra 
Townie’s left, unridden, one burgundy 7d, 
one moss green 7d, one white ladies single 
speed townie at $275. Aluminum frame 
and pedal forward technology makes these 
bikes some of the most comfortable and 
easy riding out there. Unridden. Listing ID: 
146585631 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
FURNITURE
Solid Wood Side Cabinet - $100. Dark 
distressed finish, three glass front doors 
with shelf in each space. Back has holes 
drilled for cords. Three drawers across the 
top (DVDs fit very well in these drawers) 
approx. 62 inches wide, 38 inches tall, 19 
inches deep. Cash. Buyer must provide 
own transportation to haul. Listing ID: 
145381221 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Under the Surface - $5850. ¾ inch glass 
with LED lighting. Hand made carved glass 
cocktail table. Outer edges of table base, 
water jet cut. Perimeter of the table top, 
pencil polished. 42” diameter x 18” height 
x ¾” glass. Listing ID: 144507097 at ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tion
Speed Queen Top Load Washer Coin Op - 
$199. Very durable and built for long lasting 
use. The machines are in used condition, 
but they haven’t yet gone through any 
repairs, refurbished, parted or even opened 
by us. Just as the same condition they were 
after we got it from the Laundromat. You 
could use this durable washing machine 
for personal use or either use it for business. 
.com/ucsdguardian
asgraphicstudioApply to
asgraphicstudio@ucsd.edu
*include resume & design samples/ portfolio
graphic
artistswantedgraphic
artistswantedListing ID: 145095823 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
BOATS
2003 23-foot Stingray 350 - $16500. 
Appraised at $18600 within the last year. 
Everything works great! My wife is preg -
nant and with our schedule we won’t be 
able to use it for at least a year. We don’t 
want it to sit. We have a V6 Explorer and 
it tows very nicely. Listing ID: 146873841 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
29’ Ericson 30 Plus 1985 - $28900. Classic 
Bruce King design Ericson 30+. This perfor -
mance cruiser is without a doubt one of the 
best sailing boats in its class. Beautiful teak 
wood interior and spacious layout. Great 
for local coast cruising, weekend sailing or 
if adventure calls, a perfect Sea of Cortez 
pocket cruiser. The 18HP Universal diesel 
runs like a champ. Listing ID: 145648518 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
2002 Sea Ray 280 Sundancer Boat for Sale 
- $49975. This Sea Ray 280 Sundancer is 
beautiful, sleek, and comfortable. With 
room to sleep six, she’s just right for families 
who hate to leave the water when dark -
ness falls. The owner took it a step further 
by purchasing a sturdy 3-axle trailer in 
2009 so ALL inland and coastal waterways 
can be explored and enjoyed. She’s been 
well-maintained and can be easily con -
trolled with her twin Merc 4.3L’s. Listing ID: 
145648517 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more informationWANT TO WORK 
ACROSS THE STREET 
FROM THE BEACH?
25 hours a weekPaid summer internship 
opportunity. San Diego-based 
tech startup seeking a journalism 
or communications major.
marie@neuacademic.comcrossword
ACROSS
1   Role for Judd Hirsch on “Numb3rs”
5    “The __ Couple”
8    “Larry King __”
9    “CSI: __”
12 Performed
13 Actress Ethel
14 Specks
15 Actor Nicolas
16 Actress Merkel
18 __ Mineo
19 Plato or Delany
20 “Dharma & __”
21 Perón and Gabor
23 __ Boothe Luce
24 Bowler’s targets
25 Worry
26 Eyeglasses, for short
28 Actress Anderson
29 __ vera
30 Undergarment
32 “Mike Hammer, Private __”
35 “A __ of the World”; Sigourney Weaver 
      movie
36 Perched on
37 Rugged cliff
38 John Ratzenberger’s role on “Cheers”
40 “Book ‘em, __!”
41 “__, Indiana”
42 “Star __”
43 O’Neill and Bradley
44 UttersDOWN
1 World’s third-largest producer of 
   aluminum
2 “__, Big World”
3 5th and Pennsylvania: abbr.
4 “__ and Stacey”
5 Last letter of the Greek alphabet
6   Very urgent
7   Aswan or Hoover
10 Actress on “ER”
11 Located near the center
12 Commercials
13 “The __ from U.N.C.L.E. ”
15 Elliot of The Mamas & the Papas
17 Years lived
19 Rowan and Rather
20 “The __ Campbell Goodtime Hour”
22 “Miami __”
23 Cut off short
25 “The __ Wilson Show”
26 Ally Walker’s lead role on “Profiler”
27 “Melrose __”
30 Homes for pigs
31 Chaney or his son
33 Richard Gere movie nominated for a 
      Golden Globe Award
34 Sense of self-esteem
36 Eager
37 One of the twins on “Jon & Kate Plus 8”
39 “The Boys __ Back”
40 Sobering-up woes, for short
CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 11, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
ASCE PRESENTS: YOU AT THE LOFTTHU, MAY 14  7:30pmTahrirCAMPUS
CALENDAR
MAY 11 - MAY 172015 POWERED BY THE CHANCELLOR’S OFFICE AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guar dian
Calendar
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar @
ucsdgu ardian .orgMON5.11 WED5.13 TUE5.12
11am
ART AND SOUL: DIY DRY ERASE FRAME - THE 
ZONE
Do you have a lot on your "To Do" list? You can 
organize it on a DIY dry erase frame made at Art & Soul! Materials are provided, but space is limited. Make sure to arrive early because this event is first 
come, first served!
12pm
SVRC: RYAN STEVENSON WITH CAPS - SRVC
Learn more about the UCSD Counseling and Psychological Service with Ryan Stevenson. 
Location: Old Student Center, Room 217
2pm
HUNGRY FOR HEALTHY: ZUCCHINI NOODLES 
WITH AVOCADO SAUCE - THE ZONE
Come join us for Zucchini Noodles w/ Avocado 
Sauce "Pasta" hosted by the Recreation Dietitian! Materials and ingredients are provided. Hungry For Healthy is a free program here at The Zone, but 
space is limited, so it is first come, first served.11am
MISSION NUTRITION: FOOD FOR THOUGHT - 
THE ZONE
Mission Nutrition is a fun and interactive event which 
aims to empower students to adopt healthier dietary habits and to make healthy food choices! With a focus on "Food for Thought," this year's event seeks to 
introduce affordable, healthy foods for students that 
will boost energy, increase concentration and improve 
their well-being overall. Come out, learn, and eat food 
samples with the UCSD Student Health Advocates!
3pm
ALTERNATIVE NONTRADITIONAL 
INTERVIEWING: EFFECTIVELY INTERVIEW - 
COMUNIDAD, CROSS CULTURAL CENTER
Alternative Non-Traditional Interviewing: Learn How to 
Effectively Interview via Skype, Phone, Panel, Group, 
etc. The traditional interview format will always 
remain a staple among many companies, but others 
have created their own interview composite to keep up with the ever changing technology fast-paced world. These new interview composites adopt a "show me" attitude aimed at eliciting solid evidence of a candidate's abilities. In this engaging workshop 
you will learn about yourself and develop your elevator 
speech to land a job or get into graduate school.
5:30pm
MENTAL HEALTH MATTERS MONTH: CRAFTY 
FILM TIME - LGBTRC CONFERENCE ROOM
Throughout the month, join the UC San Diego 
community and California as we spread awareness about the importance of mental health. Pick up a Green Ribbon to wear at The Zone, CAPS, the Colleges, or at any event!. 
SUN5.17
10am
OUTBACK ADVENTURES: SNORKEL LA JOLLA 
COVE - OUTBACK ADVENTURES
Explore the amazing world beneath the ocean□s 
surface The diversity of sea creatures in the cove is astounding! From Garibaldi (the California state fish) to Leopard Sharks (docile and harmless to humans), this marine preserve is teeming with wildlife. What better way to meet this new world than to grab a snorkel and become part of it. Come join Outback Adventures for an experience you won’t soon forget! 
6pm
ROCK CHURCH MICROSITE - MARSHALL 
COLLEGE ROOM, PC WEST, LEVEL 2
The Rock Church now has a Microsite on campus! 
Join us for a live-streaming service this Sunday!
9pm
SALSA DANCING: SUNDAY SUPPER 
AFTERPARTY! - GREAT HALL
Enjoy great food, music, dance, and culture! Join the 
Outreach Coordinators as we learn the Salsa with the UCSD Salsa Club after Sunday Supper! Take a break from studying and let loose! All skill levels welcome!FRI5.15
1pm
HUMAN-CLIMATE INTERACTIONS AND 
EVOLUTION: PAST AND FUTURE - CONRAD T. PREBYS AUDITORIAN, SALK INSTITUTE
How did earth's climate impact human evolution? 
How has human activity impacted the earth and what does the future hold? Human-Climate Interactions and Evolution: Past and Future, a 
free, public symposium presented by CARTA, will 
explore these questions.
6pm
THE ART OF SURFING - PORTER’S PUB
Don't miss The Art of Surfing at Porter's Pub on May 15th. This event showcases the rad and vibin' sport like no other. This night will include the highly anticipated surf photography contest 
reveal. Prizes will be given to 1st, 2nd, and 3rd 
place. Surfrider UCSD will also be screening an environmental film, along with displaying their art piece made out of trash. A raffle to raise money 
for Surfrider will be going on as well. 
9pm
CATHEDRALS WITH TUNJI IGE - THE LOFT
The symbiotic convergence of music and art. Not 
just music as art, but when art is at the crux of every step of the musical process, to the point where sonic elements ooze with a visual journey of the mind; a multisensory experience. San Francisco electro dream-pop duo Cathedrals, whose debut Cathedrals EP came out in September on Neon Gold Records, is a product of this very concept. A lot has gone right for this band thus far, especially the release of the Cathedrals EP on Neon Gold Records. The label, owned and operated by MSMR frontwoman Lizzy Plapinger, has quickly become a go-to label for budding electro-pop artists. Neon Gold caught wind of Cathedrals' first single, "Unbound" on Hype Machine.5pm
CAREER RESOURCES FOR TRANSGENDER 
STUDENTS- LGBTRC CONFERENCE ROOM
Part of The Real World Career Series: building skills 
for a diverse interconnected community. Come join in an informational and constructive discussion, to learn about the resources available for transgender 
students who are venturing into the workforce.
6pm
MENTAL HEALTH MATTERS: TRIVIA NIGHT AND 
DIRECTING CHANGE FILM - THE LOFT
Join us for a Mental Health Trivia Night and Directing 
Change Film Screening! Throughout the month, join the UC San Diego community and California as we spread awareness about the importance of mental 
health. Pick up a Green Ribbon to wear at The Zone, 
CAPS, the Colleges, or at any event!
6pm
OUTBACK ADVENTURES: BOULDERDASH - 
OUTBACK CLIMBING CENTER
Boulderdash, the Bouldering Competition at OCC, is 
coming soon! Entrance into the competition is $25 
for Rec cardholders and students. Sign up now in 
the surf shop
SAT5.16
9am
TRITON JUNKYARD DERBY 2015 - 
MANDEVILLE HILL
Triton Engineering Student Council is proud to 
present the 12th Annual Junkyard Derby! Form a team, build a derby car out of junk, and race it against other teams for a chance to be the 12th 
Annual Junkyard Derby Champion! You don't need 
to be an engineer! Everyone is welcome. Sign-up here: https://goo.gl/md2yBK You need: team name, email, & T-shirt sizes for team. The cost: $25 
Registration Fee + $25 tool deposit.THU5.14
5pm
SMART SALARY NEGOTIATION WORKSHOP - 
WOMEN’S CENTER
Part of The Real World Career Series: building skills 
for a diverse interconnected community.
Be sure to join in this interactive workshop, 
designed to give college women the skills they need 
to earn a fair wage!
5:15pm
BROAD, EMPLOYEE OWNERSHIP AS 
NETWORKED SOCIAL ENTERPRISE INNOVATION - MULTIPURPOSE ROOM 2, RADY SCHOOL
Dr. Freundlich will discuss the Mondragon 
Corporation, an integrated network of over 120 employee-owned enterprises in the Basque Country of northern Spain with a work force of 74,000. It is a 
global leader in several advanced manufacturing 
sectors and also has substantial retail, finance and knowledge businesses. The Mondragon case might well interest business scholars and professionals, 
but also those in public policy, economics, 
international development and public health, as broad-based ownership among networked firms has been shown to influence issues as diverse as productivity and heart disease, income inequality and organizational identity, or innovation and domestic violence.
6:30pm
HEART AND SOUL CAFE - THE ZONE
Come join the Warren Peer Mentorship Program at the Zone for hot beverages and refreshments. There will be DIY chalkboards as well as friendship bracelets. Get ready for some much needed rest and relaxation before Finals!
7:30pm
ASCE PRESENTS: YOU AT THE LOFT - THE LOFT
Swing by The Loft for an open mic night with free food! Music, comedy , spoken word, rants... 
Everything welcome! For more information, contact ASCE at avpconcerts@ucsd.edu or (858) 534-0477.
THE LOFT, PRICE CENTER
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
MARCUS THUILLIER
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 11, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
Women’s sports have long flown 
under the radar — men’s leagues, 
like the NBA and NFL, have domi -
nated the sports scene for decades. 
Most men’s sports programs have 
a large number of viewers, and the 
revenue from each game guarantees 
players a relatively sizeable salary.
A good amount of our popula -
tion often doesn’t acknowledge the 
comparable success of female ath -
letes, though; we know names like 
Jennie Finch and Serena Williams, 
but their success stories are gener -
ally less well-known than those of 
other big-name players, like Peyton 
Manning and LeBron James. For the 
vast majority of female athletes, high 
levels of fame and acclaim aren’t 
the norm. Low pay, low recognition 
and collective favoritism for men’s 
sports teams plague women’s leagues, 
culminating in struggling programs 
across the nation. One major ques -
tion stands, though: Is there solid, 
fact-based reasoning as to why 
women can’t be as successful or well-
known in sports as men are?
The average number of 
seats filled at the 2013 NBA 
Championships was over 19,000 
per game, and the average number 
watching the broadcast was even 
higher — more than 17 million 
viewers each game. The 2013 WNBA 
Championship numbers are measly 
in comparison: just over 7,000 seats 
filled per game and a mere 345,000 
broadcast viewers.
The 2014 MLB World Series saw 
an average of over 41,000 people 
in attendance for each of the seven 
games, and an average of 13.9 mil -
lion viewers watched the broadcast. 
National Pro Fastpitch softball games 
have a much smaller contingent of 
viewers: Only a few hundred viewers 
fill seats at any given game, and the 
Internet broadcasts see only a couple 
thousand viewers per month.
The average salary for an NBA 
player rests in the millions. The aver -
age WNBA player doesn’t even make 
six figures each year. MLB players 
make a whopping $4 million yearly. 
NPF players only make an average of 
$5,000 to $6,000 each season.
Where do the disparities come 
from if the two sexes are essentially 
playing the same sport? Because of 
the well-established popularity of 
men’s sports, women’s sports tend 
to fall to the wayside. Boston Globe 
reporter Shira Springer attributes it 
to something called “sports inertia”: 
Devoted fans follow the MLB, NFL, 
NBA and NHL teams that they know 
best. They live for the “seasonal ritu -
als” established by the “traditionally-
championed” men’s sports teams.
Springer then moves on to state 
that “many fans believe female ath -
letes lack the skill, speed, strength 
and overall entertainment value that 
males display. ” This seems to be the 
common belief: Women’s sporting 
events don’t have the same high-
flying entertainment quality that 
men’s sports have. We don’t often see Why 
Women’s 
Sports are 
Struggling
Ka tie Potts
kpotts@ucsd.eduMind   of  an   A thlete         
See MIND OF AN ATHLETE , page 9
Tritons Await List of 
      NCAA Qualifiers
UCSD ends season with        
multiple provisional 
marks and one 
automatic 
qualifier.
After	successful	first	and	third-place 	
finishes at the California Collegiate 
Athletic Association Champion -
ships last Saturday, select members 
from the men’s and women’s track 
and field teams traveled to Los Angeles and 
competed in the Occidental Invitational and Cal 
State Los Angeles Last Chance Qualifier meets 
for their last opportunity to qualify for the 
NCAA championships. 
At the Occidental Invitational, the steeplechas -
ers ran their final race of their regular season with 
solid results. Senior Anneke Kakebeen finished in 
sixth, breaking her own school record by nearly 13 
seconds, with a time of 11 minutes 1.73 seconds. 
On the men’s side, seniors Mario Flores (9:15.27) 
and Daniel Franz (9:20.07) improved upon their 
provisional qualifying times, finishing in 15th and 
17th, respectively. Their times also move them up 
on UCSD’s all-time list. 
The women’s 4-x-400 relay team, consisting of 
senior Sabrina Pimentel, sophomore Jackie Chalm -
ers, senior Ellexi Snover and sophomore Marisa 
Padilla, also had its last chance to compete at the 
Occidental Invitational. The team members won 
their race in 3:46.44, putting them in seventh on 
UCSD’s all-time list. 
The Cal State Los Angeles Last Chance Quali -
fier elicited record-worthy results from the Tritons 
as well. Senior Connor Macky finished in first place 
in	the	800-meter	run	in	1:52.31,	tying	him	for	10th 	
on UCSD’s all-time list. His teammate, sophomore 
Jared Senese, finished in second with a time of 
1:53.53. Both men now hold provisional qualifying 
times for this event. 
On the field, the triple jumpers had equally ex -
cellent	finishes.	Junior	Kristin	Sato	(38-7	1/2)	and 	
senior	Chantia	Justice	(38-2	3/4)	finished	in	second 	
and third, respectively. For the men, sophomore 
Derek	Van	de	Streek	won	the	event	with	a	jump	of 	
45-10. “I was not able to do as well as I wanted to at 
Last Chance, but I was privileged to be presented 
the	opportunity	to	extend	my	season,”	Van	de 	
Streek told the UCSD Guardian. “I mainly wanted 
to support the seniors who may have had their last 
track meet of their career. ” 
Also on the field, sophomore Chrissi Carr 
and junior Megan Benham competed in the pole 
vault, finishing in first and second, respectively, 
both clearing the 12-foot mark. Although they had 
identical measures, Carr won the event because 
she	had	fewer	fouls.	Fifth-year	Clint	Rosser,	one	of 	
the main Triton competitors who closed the gap 
between UCSD and Chico State to give UCSD the 
win in the CCAA Championships, finished in third 
with a mark of 14-10. 
In the women’s javelin, junior Haley Libuit won 
the event with a throw of 137-4. Fellow teammate 
Snover, who also ran at the Occidental Invitational, 
finished	in	third	with	a	throw	of	128-8.	Finishing 	
up the meet for the Tritons, sophomore Savanna 
Forry finished in second place in the high jump, 
clearing	the	5-4	1/4	mark. 	
With so many records crushed and provisional 
qualifying marks met, in addition to the men’s 
impressive	finish	at	the	CCAAs,	Van	de	Streek	said 	
that this “is a huge step in the right direction for 
not only our program, but our university in terms 
of continuing to establish a tradition and culture of 
athletic excellence. ” 
The NCAA will announce the selected athletes 
competing in the NCAA Division-II Champion -
ships next week, with senior Nash Howe qualifying 
for the third consecutive year in the javelin as the 
only automatic qualifier for the Tritons. The NCAA 
championship meet will be held in Allendale, 
Michigan from May 21 through May 23. Written by Rosina Garcia // Photo by Matthias Sheer
PHOTO BY HAOCHANG TENG / UCSD GUARDIANPHOTOS USED WITH PERMISSION FROM UCSD ATHLETICS
readers can contact
rosina garcia    rmg008@ucsd.edu 