VOLUME 49, ISSUE 8   MONDA Y , OCTOBER 19, 2015  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
CHEATERS  
PROSPER
A UCSD GUARDIAN RUN 
SURVEY OF STUDENTS IN 
ENGINEERING MAJORS SHOWS 
HIGH PERCENTAGE CHEAT 
ON HOMEWORK AND TESTS. 
GET THE DETAILS OF OUR 
INVESTIGATION INSIDE. 
POLITICAL BUFFOONER Y
HIGH- FL YING  TRITONSINFLAMA TOR Y POLITICANS
Volleyball  comes  out  on  topOPINION,  P age   4
sports,  P age  12
MONDAY
H 75 L 63TUESDAY
H 76 L 64
WEDNESDAY
H 80 L 65THURSDAY
H 78 L 64
FORECAST
VERBATIM
FOR THE DURATION OF YOUR 
PARENTS’ VISIT YOU WILL 
ONLY EXPRESS INTEREST IN 
SUITORS WHO UNDERSTAND 
YOUR VALUE AS A STRICTLY 
MARRIAGEABLE PROSPECT.
WHEN GRILLED BY YOUR 
PARENTS ABOUT THE DATING 
SCENE AT UCSD, SIGH 
MODESTLY AND COMPLAIN, 
‘I’M LOOKING FOR THE ONE.’”
- HOW-TO GURU
OPINION , PAGE 4
INSIDE
SUPERCOMPUTER  ........... 2
VOTER REGISTRATION  .....4
CHEATING  ....................... 6
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU  ..10
W. TENNIS  ..................... 11“FEA TURES,  P AGE  6
ILLUSTRATION BY ELYSE YANG
UCSD Health and Tri-City 
Medical Center announced a 
partnership on Wednesday that 
allows the North County health 
district to refer patients to university 
specialists. The affiliation gives 
the Oceanside hospital’s patients 
access to the university’s specialized 
services while also expanding 
UCSD’s patient care coverage.
Tri-City patients can now be 
referred to UCSD Health experts in 
areas including, but not limited to, 
neurological, psychiatric, surgical, 
oncological and cardiological care. 
Patients can be seen by UCSD medical 
staff at Tri-City, or if the need calls 
for it, at UCSD Health facilities. The 
increase in referrals gives UCSD Health more patient cases for its 
physicians and medical students.
Interim CEO of UCSD Health 
Patty Maysent said the partnership 
combines the resources of both 
systems to ensure that patients 
receive the highest quality of care.
“For patients to receive the best 
possible health care, community 
physicians, local hospitals and 
academic health providers must 
integrate systems of care and align 
clinical, research and administrative 
expertise, ” Maysent said in a joint 
press release.
Tri-City Medical Center CEO 
Tim Moran told the UCSD Guardian 
that greater patient care is at the 
center of Tri-City’s affiliation with 
UCSD Health. 
“The main focus of the 
partnership is to be in a better position to provide care for more 
people that live in the [North 
County] San Diego area, ” Moran 
said.
Others who benefit from this 
partnership are UCSD employees 
who reside in North County because 
they can be treated closer to home 
at Tri-City.
Moran said, “Employees in the 
UC Health System can access us on 
the same basis as they would if they 
were going to a UCSD facility. ”
Chief Marketing Officer of Tri-
City David Bennett believes the 
University of California brand will 
strengthen Tri-City in its competition 
for market share against other 
healthcare systems, including Kaiser 
Permanente, Palomar Health, Scripps SAE Pledge Caught Asking 
Student for Topless Pictures
Members of Sigma Alpha Epsilon’s new 
pledge class requested topless pictures 
from female students, according to a 
screenshotted conversation posted on Facebook 
earlier this week. 
Undergraduate student Rachel Friedman 
uploaded a picture of her conversation with an 
SAE pledge to her Facebook page on Oct. 15. 
“I’m in a frat now and we have to get ‘rush 
boobs, ’” the pledge messaged Friedman. “If you 
or any of your friends can help me out, I would 
really appreciate it. I don’t need faces, just topless 
[pictures] with ‘Rush [SAE]’ written on their 
chests. ”
Representatives from SAE responded to the 
allegations with a public statement on SAE’s 
Facebook page, saying that the majority of the 
organization did not know about the the incident.
“Our chapter as a whole was not aware and 
did not have a part in this degrading action, ” Sigma Alpha Epsilon posted. “Our chapter and 
Sigma Alpha Epsilon as an organization does not 
condone objectifying women or the degradation of 
others for that matter. We believe in equality and 
respect for all individuals and are working with 
UCSD and our national organization to ensure 
that proper action is taken for this incident. ”
Eleanor Roosevelt College junior and Greeks 
United for Inclusion, Diversity and Equity member 
Lauren Roberts told the UCSD Guardian that this 
is not the first time fraternities have mistreated 
women.
“This is one of many explicitly sexist and 
misogynistic actions that have been performed 
by Greek Life as a whole this year alone, ” Roberts 
said. “While I’m not surprised that this has 
occurred, I wonder how many women were asked 
for these pictures before one spoke out. ”
UCSD alumna and proactive leader of the 
Free the Nipple Movement Anni Ma mentioned   B y   Kriti  Sarin    NEws Editor UCSD UC SYSTEM
See  VOTERS , page 3See SAE, page 3
See  TRI-CITY , page 3UCSD
By   K e v i n   Sa n t o s
Contributing Writer
Students from UCSD Mind Body Nutrition organization practiced yoga poses in the morning at La Jolla Shores last week.
Photo by Kenji Bennett /UCSD Guardian.Gov. Brown 
Signs Voter 
Registration 
Legislation
California’s New Motor 
Voter Act automatically 
registers all license 
applications and renewals.
BY   O m k a r   M a h a j a n
Staff Writer
UCSD Forms Partnership with Local Hospital
Tri-City Medical Center in Oceanside plans to serve all of North County in the future.CALIFORNIAGov. Jerry Brown signed the 
“New Motor Voter Act” into law on 
Oct. 10. The bill aims to improve 
the state’s voter turnout rate, which 
was 42 percent last November, by 
automatically registering people 
to vote once they acquire or renew 
their driver’s licenses.
California is the second state, 
after Oregon, to pass legislation 
that will enable automatic voter 
registration. Other states like Texas 
and Alabama have instead passed 
legislation, such as ID laws and the 
removal of registration stations, that 
have increased barriers for voter 
registration. The Brennan Center for 
Justice reports that since the 2015 
legislative season began, 33 states 
have passed 113 bills restricting 
access to voter registration. 
Assemblywoman Lorena Gonzalez 
(D-San Diego), one of the bill’s 
authors, praised it and explained how 
it will make the voting registration 
process easier for Americans.
“It’s removing the first barrier 
to voting, which is registration, ” 
Gonzalez said on Saturday in a press 
release. “It’s going to lead to millions 
more Californians being registered 
to vote, which means more people 
we can talk to. ”
Emily Rusch, the executive 
director of the advocacy group 
California Public Interest Research 
Group, believes that the new bill 
will fix many of the problems in the 
voter registration process.
“ A well-functioning democracy 
depends on the participation of its 
citizens, ” Rusch told the Los Angeles 
Times. “But right now we see that 
far too many Californians aren’t 
even registered to vote, so they’re 
not even getting information about 
the election. ”
Secretary of State Alex Padilla, 
the bill’s sponsor, explained how 
this bill signifies California’s 
commitment to make the voter 
registration process more accessible 
to Americans.
“The New Motor Voter Act will 
make voter registration a seamless 
process and result in the largest 
sustained voter registration drive in 
our nation’s history, ” Padilla stated 
in a press release. “It is not lost on 
me that many states are restricting 
voting rights with the clear goal of 
preventing citizens from voting. I 
am proud that California is again 
demonstrating leadership and 2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 19, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
COUPLE OF DERPS By Elyse Yang
REGISTER ONLINE AT AS.UCSD.EDU/SAFERIDESRegistration for FALL QUARTER IS NOW OPEN!
A.S. Safe Rides allows registered undergraduate students 
to get 3 FREE rides per quarter. Students MUST
register at least 24 hours prior to their ﬁrst ride. A.S. SAFE RIDES 
@asucsdThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. dammit kahpee.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Marketing Director
Laura Chow
Associate Marketing Director
Peter McInnis
Training and Development Manager
Cedric Hyon
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Vincent Pham
Rosina Garcia
Tina Butoiu
Kriti Sarin
Jacky To
Cassia Pollock 
Marcus Thuillier
Allison Kubo
Kyle Somers
Karly Nisson
Brittney Lu
Olga Golubkova
Jonathan Gao
Megan Lee
Joselynn Ordaz
Sherman Aline
Elyse Yang
Christina Carlson
Jennifer GrundmanEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
 
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
Associate Features Editor
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Sherman Aline, Allison Kubo
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim
Editorial Assistants
Sage Schubert Christian, Katie Potts, Christian DuarteSan Diego Supercomputer Center 
launched its new supercomputer 
system, Comet, on its 30th 
anniversary last week. Looking at 
processing power and accessibility, 
Comet is said to be one of the most 
powerful computing machines in 
the nation. 
Scientific Applications Lead 
Robert Sinkovits said he believes 
that Comet is an invaluable asset to 
researchers in all disciplines. 
“Comet is a national resource 
that is available free of charge to 
all academic researchers in the 
United States,” Sinkovits told 
the UCSD Guardian.  “ Although 
it’s not a UCSD resource, many 
campus researchers in disciplines 
ranging from physics, chemistry 
and engineering to genomics and 
political science are using Comet. 
UCSD faculty also take advantage 
of proximity to the supercomputer 
center to launch collaborations with our staff to help them make best use 
of Comet. ”
The new computing machine is 
available to anyone, based on an 
outside peer review process which 
determines who will receive time to 
use the computer. 
One of the projects that will 
use Comet is called Extreme 
Science and Engineering 
Discovery Environment, which is 
a virtual system that scientists and 
researchers use to share computing 
data, resources and expertise. 
XSEDE’s Communications Director 
Travis Tate told the Guardian that 
Comet will be an integral part of 
XSEDE moving forward.
“Comet, and SDSC more 
generally, are extremely important 
to the XSEDE project, ” Tate said. 
“Part of SDSC getting Comet was 
that they had to allocate a certain 
percentage to being an XSEDE 
resource. ”
Comet is regarded as a great 
resource for its powerful computing 
ability. Generally the power of 
supercomputers is judged by the number of floating particle math 
operations it can achieve per second, 
this is shortened to “Flops. ”
“Comet has a peak performance 
of two Petaflops — 2000 trillion 
Flops — making it nearly seven 
times as powerful as Gordon, our 
older supercomputer, ” Sinkovits said. 
With this processing ability, 
Comet can provide calculations for a 
number of projects in fields ranging 
from physics to research in sociology. 
To facilitate the many uses of 
Comet, SDSC uses an interface 
called Science Gateways which 
allows users to run jobs on the 
computer but skip over the 
programming aspects and focus on 
their research.
Each of the systems uses two 
Xeon processors, and are equipped 
with 128 gigabytes of RAM using 
Dell integrations. It can distribute 
the load of complex calculations 
throughout the systems, which is 
called Dell Cluster integration.  
“Comet will greatly expand the 
accessibility and impact of high-performance computing to the 
nation’s open science researchers 
by offering a comprehensive set 
of capabilities in one integrated 
system, ” John Mullen, vice president 
and general manager of Dell’s North 
America Commercial Sales, told 
UCSD News. 
The machine, which is nearly the 
size of two buses, will serve 10,000 
researchers and scientists a year. 
“Comet was built to support 
‘the long tail of science, ’ meaning 
users with small-to-medium sized 
computational requirements that are 
not being met by more traditional 
supercomputers, which typically 
focus on the very largest users, ” 
Sinkovits said. 
The National Science Foundation 
granted SDSC a total of $24 million, 
$12 million to build and another 
$12 million to run Comet. SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
Supercomputer Center Introduces New Computing Machine
Approximately 10,000 scientists and researchers from a variety of disciplines will have access to Comet every year.
BY   A l l i s o n   K u b o
Contributing Writer 
Allison Kubo   akubo@ucsd.edu readers can contact
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Follow us on Twitter 
@UCSDGUARDIANsee more atNEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 19, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
that although the pledge may not 
have intended to offend women, his 
nonchalant tone is an example of 
gender-related microaggression.
“This shouldn’t be shocking news 
— this is a common occurrence in 
our everyday life; we simply caught 
someone saying it on social media, ” 
Ma told the Guardian. “I don’t 
think the young male knew exactly 
what he was saying and how he was 
addressing his point. But he proves 
that we live in a society that allows 
males to devalue women like this. 
He tried to make his request funny 
or somehow acceptable, when it’s 
absolutely offensive and not okay. ” 
Roberts further explained that 
this incident can be seen as a side 
effect of an initiation process 
that largely focuses on receiving 
attention from women.
“It’s the entitlement to women 
at exchanges and formals, the way 
pledges are required to receive 
signatures from [and] take pictures 
with large groups of women, which 
ultimately escalated into wanting 
photos of women’s breasts, ” Roberts 
said. “This could have been 
prevented if the leadership of the chapter had sat down with each 
pledge class and explained how 
to respect women and how not to 
objectify them ... Changing the 
culture of an organization is tough, 
but to live up to their own values, it 
is incredibly necessary. “
The fraternity said that it is 
working with women who received 
messages similar to the pledge’s to 
resolve the situation.
“We have individually contacted 
each of the women affected by our 
member’s actions, apologizing and 
inviting them to approach us with 
any further questions or concerns, ” 
SAE wrote in a comment. “We in 
no way are trying to cover this 
incident up and instead believe that 
it should be brought to the spotlight 
to initiate a dialogue of what is or 
isn’t acceptable on our campus. ”
A.S. Vice President of External 
Affairs and co-director of the 
UConsent campaign Krystl Fabella 
told the Guardian that the Facebook 
post should make people question 
the societal norm of treating women 
as inferior to men.
“Ironically, whenever this kind 
of thing happens, no one is ever 
responsible,” Fabella said. “Not 
even the person who did it, because they didn’t ‘know any better’ ... It 
is a pattern in our culture … We 
hear it in conversations, in party 
titles like ‘CEOs and office hoes, ’ 
the prevalence of sexual assaults 
in the Greek community, etc. This 
one incident reflects an overarching 
issue of the continual demeaning 
of women within the Greek 
community, and people need to 
internalize that. ”
Roberts, who is also an active 
member of the sorority Alpha Chi 
Omega, encouraged UCSD students to 
think of this conversation as an ongoing 
issue that needs to be addressed.
“The student body should 
question the organization, its 
response and the underlying 
cultural issues, ” she said. “ As easy 
as it is to accept an apology and 
label the harasser a ‘lone wolf, ’ it 
is important to look at the context 
of this issue ... and recognize that 
the patriarchy is extremely prevalent 
in fraternity life, and it is time to 
start questioning the status quo 
and treating these [problematic] 
members and chapters accordingly. ”Roberts: Rush Process Causes Male Pledges to Objectify Women
▶ SAE,  from page 1
Kriti  Sarin   ksarin@ucsd.edureaders can contact
More Than Six Million Californians Are Not Registered to VoteHealth and Sharp HealthCare.
“The University of California 
is a very well-respected system,” 
Bennett explained to the Guardian. 
“[The partnership] creates more of 
a presence for Tri-City to keep more 
of the [patient] population in North 
County. ”
Moran added that the aim of the 
partnership is to provide medical 
services to the entire North County.
“Tri-City’s most fundamental 
goal is to be the healthcare provider 
of choice for this market for the 
people that live [in North County San 
Diego], ” Moran told the Guardian. 
“The UCSD Health System is working 
with us to take care of more patients in North County, and is working with 
them to facilitate care for patients 
who need the level of care that [the 
UC system] can provide. ”
With the added support from the 
UCSD Health System, Tri-City plans 
to accommodate additional medical 
staff in terms of placement and new 
communication systems.
“The UC Health System will bring 
a number of specialist physicians 
to our market and we will provide 
space for them on campus, ” Moran 
said. “We will also be developing 
a clinically integrated network for 
working closely together to provide 
shared information on patient care. ”Health Center to Hire Specialized Employees
▶ TRI-CITY ,  from page 1
Kevin Santos   kksantos@ucsd.edureaders can contact
WEEK FOUR
Saturday , october 24  •  9pm  •  WARREN MALL
We’re gearing up for Halloween at UCSD - country-style! 
Come brave through a spooky haunted trail through the 
woods, dance the night away with a live DJ with 
step-by-step line dance lessons throughout the night, 
enjoy carnival games and inflatable obstacles, and snack 
on some free, late-night BBQ.
FRIDAY , october 23  •  8pm  •  WARREN MALLTriton Fest Rockstar Night is here to satisfy all your 
music and entertainment needs. Learn the latest dance 
moves with a professional choreographer, karaoke with 
a live band, or take part in a lip sync/air guitar 
performance! Bring food for the Colleges Rock Hunger 
drive and receive special prizes!
FACEBOOK.COM/UCSDTRITONFEST
ROCK STAR
NIGHT
HAUNTED
HOEDOWNFINAL WEEKEND!providing a shining example of how 
our nation can and should expand 
access to the polls. ”
Under the current system, 
eligible voters must specifically 
state that they are interested in 
registering to vote when obtaining 
a driver’s license, and fill out a 
separate form. Approximately 6.6 
million Californians are eligible to 
vote but are not registered.Hans von Spakovsky, a legal 
fellow at the Heritage Foundation, 
on the other hand, argued that 
automatic voter registration 
infringes on the freedom of citizens.
“ Automatically registering 
individuals to vote without their 
permission would also violate 
their basic right to choose whether 
they wish to participate in the U.S. 
political process, ” Spakovsky said. 
“Indeed, this new scheme threatens 
one of America’s most cherished liberties: the freedom to be left alone 
by the government. ”
Padilla, however, argues that this 
bill will essentially provide voters with 
a right that they should already have.
“Citizens should not be required 
to opt into their fundamental right 
to vote, ” Padilla stated. “We do not 
have to opt in to other rights, such as 
free speech or due process. ”▶ VOTERS,  from page 1
Omkar Mahajan   omAhajan@ucsd.edureaders can contactFIND US ON FACEBOOK 
WWW.FACEBOOK.COM/UCSDGUARDIAN4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 19, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CASSIA POLLOCK
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
How-To 
Guru: 
Helicopter 
Parents
Well, it looks like family 
weekend came and 
passed without any major 
disasters striking the university. 
Sure, you’ve been humiliated by 
your mother’s attempt to re-decorate 
your apartment with strings of 
butterfly lights to brighten the place 
up and your father’s insistence on 
introducing you to every single 
professor regardless of whether 
you’re taking their classes or not. But 
hey, you got through this; you’re a 
survivor. So now that your helicopter 
parents are out of your hair — or 
still living in a hotel room across 
from the university — it’s time to 
make a future plan of action on how 
to cope with their intense love.
Before your parents enter your 
apartment, thoroughly search 
through your trash cans and dirty 
laundry bins for leftover remnants 
of sex, drugs or your Ben & Jerry’s 
binges. Now go ahead and sweep 
all of that forbidden paraphernalia 
under the proverbial — and literal 
— rug. There must be absolutely no 
physical evidence that you have a 
life, hobbies or the occasional need 
for self-indulgence outside of your 
academic studies.
Next, go on social media and 
erase all traces of social interaction 
from your Facebook, Twitter and 
Instagram accounts. Photoshop 
red cups out of photos and replace 
with textbooks, writing utensils 
and calculators. Don’t forget to 
start spamming your social media 
newsfeeds with family pictures and 
affectionate comments about how 
thankful you are to be your parents’ 
last hope for continuing their 
sacred genetic lineage. 
After that task is successfully 
completed, contact all of your casual 
romantic partners via Tinder, and 
tell them to stay as far away as 
possible. Y ou are currently closed for 
business. For the duration of your 
parents’ visit you will only express 
interest in suitors who understand 
your value as a strictly marriageable 
prospect. When grilled by your 
parents about the dating scene at 
UCSD, sigh modestly and complain, 
“I’m looking for the one. ”
When the family heads back 
home, they will be used to 
frequently communicating with 
you. Consider the following tip: 
Only agree to respond to their 
text messages 50 times a day — a 
maximum of 50 texts. Limiting 
communication is an important 
strategy for establishing healthy 
boundaries. 
Now unfurl yourself from the 
minion onesie pajamas your mother 
lovingly sewed for you, and tuck it 
back into a leftover care package. 
After you finish eating its entire 
contents over the next few months, 
you’ll have to return to dining dollar 
food. So take a step back and return 
to your standard “adult” mindset. 
Without your parents around to do all 
of the adulting, you must go back to 
independently adulting by yourself.
And last but not least, don’t 
tell your parents about the visual 
arts classes you’re taking to follow 
your life-long dream of being an 
artist. Especially take care to avoid 
mentioning the nudity requirement. 
As far as they know, you’re still 
a biology major with a 4.0 GPA. 
As long as that illusion is never 
shattered, they will continue to 
proudly fund your college education.
Political Reality Stars
ILLUSTRA TION   B Y  EL Y SE  Y ANG
Americans aren’t voting — at least, not at the rates that we should 
be voting. California, the state with the largest population in the 
United States, ranks 38th in the U.S. for voter registration, according to 
Huffington Post. However, starting this year that will change. Gov. Brown 
recently signed the automatic voter registration bill in California, which 
will allow Californians to be automatically registered to vote when they 
go to the DMV to renew their driver’s license or state ID. This is exactly 
the push that California voters need.
Although automatic voter registration won’t force any individual 
to vote, there’s a lot of data that suggests it will increase voting rates. 
In California, this largely means Latinos, Asian Americans, the poor 
(citizens earning less than $30,000) and young adults (ages 18 to 34). 
These communities already have very low voting turnout. Huffington 
Post reported that in 2014, only 17 percent of eligible Latinos and 18 
percent of eligible Asian Americans actually voted. In California, young 
adults make up 32 percent of the population, but only 13 percent voted, 
according to the Public Policy Institute of California.
While some may argue that there’s an inherent disinterest in voting 
among these groups, the data doesn’t support this claim. In the 2012 
election, Demos.org reports that of citizens who were poor and were 
registered to vote, 80 percent voted, which is higher than the national 
average. These statistics show that when underrepresented communities 
have access to voting, their turnout increases at the polls. But we need 
to make it easier to vote in the first place. Automatic voting registration 
solves this problem.
Then there’s the most common argument against automatic voter 
registration. There is a paranoid cry of: “We will get voter fraud!” 
However, as California Secretary of State Alex Padilla told Huffington 
Post, having voters registered through the DMV is a safe method 
because voters have to prove their age while also providing either a birth 
certificate or a passport. 
Compared to our current system of checking a box under penalty 
of perjury, this is a more cautious measure. In the end, the U.S. is a 
democracy, meaning that every citizen should have access to voting 
polls. Automatic voter registration is the best way to make this American 
dream a reality.
— AYAT AMIN
 Senior Staff WriterAutomatic Voter Registration Should Successfully Increase 
Tur nout by Supporting Underpriviledged Communities
QUICK TAKESGOV. BROWN RECENTLY SIGNED A BILL THAT ALLOWS RESIDENTS OF CALIFORNIA TO BE AUTOMATICALLY 
REGISTERED TO VOTE WHEN THEY OBTAIN OR RENEW A DRIVER’S LICENSE OR A STATE ID FROM THE DMV.
The new voter registration bill signed by Gov. Brown is not misguided 
so much as it is shortsighted. Though it seeks to increase political 
agency and activity, its methods for doing so are neither comprehensive 
nor responsive to the primary problem: low voter turnout, particularly 
among young people. 
To begin with, the bill fails to take into account individuals who 
don’t have access to obtaining a driver’s license. In counties with unequal 
income and traditionally marginalized groups, fewer citizens actually 
acquire licenses. Data released by the California DMV show that only 
about 33 percent of eligible Los Angeles residents have driver’s licenses, 
while more affluent areas such as El Dorado (71 percent) and Santa Clara 
(73 percent) have much larger portions of their population obtaining 
licenses through the DMV . This does not mean that the new bill attempts 
to obstruct any population from voting. It merely illustrates that the 
measures being taken are not as inclusive as they should be.
On top of being slightly shortsighted, this bill provides yet another 
example of legislation that strikes at the leaves and branches of a problem 
without getting to its roots. Statistics published by California’s Secretary 
of State Debra Bowen reported that the November 2014 general election 
had a record low turnout: Merely 42.2 percent of registered voters 
actually filled out a ballot. This dragging of feet to perform civic duties is 
particularly pervasive among millennials. The youth vote — those aged 
18 to 24 — made up merely 3.9 percent of all ballots cast in California 
but accounted for 14.5 percent of the eligible voting population, 
according to a report released by the California Civic Engagement 
Project at UC Davis. Demographic divides in voter turnout also exist 
by district, with the lowest voter participation present in Los Angeles 
County, where only 31 percent of registered voters cast a ballot in the 
last general election. 
If the goal is to increase the number of citizens who can and will 
vote, the incentive ought to be more personal, palatable and appealing 
than a trip to the DMV . Encouraging young people and otherwise 
underrepresented individuals to exercise their substantial voting power 
can only be achieved by convincing these potential voters of their own 
agency — by educating, informing and mobilizing.
—  HAILEY SANDEN
Senior Staff WriterIn Order to Increase Turnout at the Polls, Voters 
Need a Better Incentive Than a Trip to the DMVFormer neurosurgeon Ben Carson and businessman Donald Trump 
are leading sensationalist campaigns that have made them two 
of the most unqualified candidates ever to lead the GOP race for 
the 2016 presidential elections. These two inexperienced candidates 
make every headline possible, drawing attention away from better-
qualified candidates. The GOP campaign has no grounds in politics. It is 
just a popularity race currently dominated by two candidates who throw 
sensational comments to the media in the hopes of getting more traction 
and donations.
Now let’s get something straight: The GOP landscape is so diverse 
and divergent that two people with little-to-no political experience 
outshine all the relatively experienced political figures in the bunch. 
Ben Carson, at the very beginning of his campaign, admitted to a 
few mistakes about his understanding of the United States’ foreign 
policy. In an interview with Hugh Hewitt on his radio show, Carson 
mistakenly urged Baltic countries already part of NATO to join 
NATO. Clearly, Carson’s geopolitics are all over the place. 
The other candidate, Donald Trump, would like to run this country 
like a business about to go bankrupt. Many apologies, Mr. Trump, but this country does not need to be in a worse financial situation than it is already. 
And that only covers a few of these candidates’ shortcomings.
This year’s GOP campaign is primarily driven by money and by 
those who understand how to successfully fund their campaigns. 
Donald Trump has been able to contribute funds to his campaign from 
his personal fortune of $4.5 billion, according to Forbes. Trump literally 
cannot be stopped. He does not need anyone’s money, and one of his 
appeals is that he is not censored or controlled by the super-PACs.
But the only reason he is not controlled by them is because he is his own 
super-PAC and can dump money into his campaign and ultimately serve 
his personal interests. Without suffering financial consequences, he can say 
things like, “Y ou could see there was blood coming out of her [Megyn Kelly, 
the Fox News host’s] eyes, blood coming out of her wherever. ” He wants to 
call a woman a “big, fat pig”? Again, he can. This is all a game to him, and 
he acts like a toddler whose mom is not around to tell him what not to say.
On the other side of that equation stands Ben Carson. We already 
know about his impressive lack of awareness regarding the country’s 
political actions. But once his advisors gave him more freedom 
to speak publicly, Carson showed us the the severe limitations of 
See REPUBLICANS, page 5
The most popular Republican candidates for this election season have attracted a large portion of  their 
audience through shock tactics and inflamatory behaviors that lack educated insight into political issues.
B Y Marcus thuillier  Senior staff writerOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 19, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
Swing by The Loft for an 
open mic night with free 
food! Interested student 
performers email 
avpconcerts@ucsd.edu 
by Wednesday, October 
13th to guarantee an 
early set. Music,  comedy, 
spoken word, rants... 
Everything welcome!TUE., OCT. 20 | DOORS: 7:00PM | SHOW: 7:30PM
ASCE.UCSD. EDUFor mo re information, contact ASCE at
avpconcerts@ucsd .edu or (858) 534-0 477theloft.ucsd.edu
DISCOVER A 
GENEROUS  
SCHOLARS HIP 
PROGRAM.
©
2
0
1
4
. 
P
aid 
f
or 
b
y the Un
i
t
ed 
S
t
a
t
e
s Ar
m
y
. 
y
. 
y
Al
l
 rig
h
t
s
r
es
er
v
ed
.
The U.S. Army’s Health P rofessions Schola rship 
Program (HPSP) offers qualiﬁed med ical, de ntal 
and veterinary students full tuition for a g radua te-
level deg ree at the school of your choi ce. You’ll 
receive a mo nthly stipend and payment for boo ks, 
equipme nt and a cademic fees, as well as th e 
potential to grow as a l eader.
To learn more, visit
healthcare.goarmy.com/z130@ucsdguardianhis narrow mindset. He argued 
that a Muslim should not be the 
president, stating that Islam is 
inconsistent with the Constitution 
in an interview on NBC. Then, last 
Thursday, he commented on the 
recent shootings in Oregon — and 
everywhere else in the U.S. — to 
CNN: “I think the likelihood of 
Hitler being able to accomplish 
his goals would have been greatly 
diminished if the people had been 
armed. I’m telling you, there is a 
reason these dictatorial people take 
guns first. ”
The immediate reaction is utter 
shock. Not only is this historically incorrect, but it is downright 
disrespectful and disgusting to 
blame the Holocaust on a piece 
of legislation from 1938. The 
Holocaust can be blamed on any of 
the following: a dictatorial regime, 
several madmen, but mostly a 
country hit by an unprecedented 
crisis that answered by building 
an army even though it had been 
forbidden to do so after World War I. 
But this is not about gun laws or the 
Holocaust.  
These remarks placed Carson on 
the same line of thought as many 
pro-gun advocates. Those comments, 
although erroneous and misguided, 
make him a likeable candidate 
for many of the top backers of Republican candidates. Out of the 
top 158 contributors — the so-called 
super-PACS, over half of the total 
contributions — 138 gave money 
to Republicans. Out of those 138, 
eight live near River Oaks, Texas, the 
wealthiest community in the state.
The GOP campaign candidates 
are trying to appeal to a very small 
percentage of white, old, rich people 
to fund their campaigns and vote 
for them. Oh, did I just describe 
Donald Trump? The sensationalist 
elements of our lovely Republican 
candidates are only alienating them 
from modern America. Despite the 
delicious spectacle they offer us in 
their “debates, ” none of them will 
stand in the Oval Office in 2016.WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
Republican Candidates Obtain Viewers Through Empty Shock Tactics
▶ REPUBLICANS,  from page 4SEND YOUR 
LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGUNLEASH YOUR 
FIERY WRATH6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 19, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
ALLISON  KUBO
features@ucsdguardian.org
Everyone knows that students cheat, even — and perhaps 
especially —at well-regarded universities like UCSD. But 
not everyone understands its scope, especially when it 
comes to engineering undergraduates. In UCSD engineering, it’s 
not just a few bad apples letting their eyes wander during exams. 
Rather, it appears that many engineering students — probably a 
majority — cheat.
In an anonymous survey conducted by the UCSD Guardian, 
primarily on structural engineering and electrical engineering 
students, 64 percent admitted to cheating out of a sample size 
of 76 students. For the purposes of the survey, cheating includes 
academic dishonesty on tests, midterms and finals, and finding 
solutions to homeworks. Students certainly aren’t oblivious to 
the extent of the issue. The majority of engineering students in 
the same survey guess that between 40 to 60 percent of their 
classmates are cheating. Also, in response to the question, “Is 
cheating a problem in engineering?” 70 percent of responders 
answered “yes. ”
Arthur is a fifth-year electrical engineering undergraduate 
student who is overly familiar with academic dishonesty in 
engineering, since he has been cheating on his homework 
consistently for years. Arthur isn’t his real name, though that was 
the name that was mistakenly shouted when his order was called 
at Roots. He sat down and started in on his chili after an evening 
of cheating on his circuits homework.
“Most of the cheating is on homework, ” Arthur told the UCSD 
Guardian. “It’s low risk and high reward. The professors rarely 
change the homeworks from year to year, and students often get 
answers from older students who have previously taken the course. 
And it’s hard to get proof of [cheating] unless someone literally 
takes a picture of someone cheating in public and shows the 
professor, which never happens. ”
Arthur isn’t the only one who has a nonchalant attitude about 
cheating on homework. Several of the survey responses justified 
cheating on homework when it helps the student understand the 
material in a difficult class.
“Sometimes homework is due the next day, the professor didn’t 
explain anything and the book is so unclear, ” one anonymous 
survey responder wrote. “Unlocking an article that shows step-by-
step solutions not only gives the student a better grade, but also 
teaches the student how to solve the problems. Cheating teaches the 
student the material. ”
The surveys indicated that students most commonly cheat on 
homework, with 96 percent of surveyed cheaters indicating that 
they had cheated on homework, while only 35 percent of cheaters 
have cheated on exams.Dishonesty
More so than some think, students report that cheating is a serious and 
nearly universal problem in some of the engineering disciplines at UCSD. 
See DISHONESTY , page 8100
2. An Application of MOSFETs [Whatisthtranfu
by Kyle Somers // Associate Features Editor
design by Allison Kubo, Quinn Pieper, Aleya ZenierisFEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 19, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
96%  chea terS  chea t  on  homework.
60%  of  ENGINEERING  students  chea t.
70%  SURVEYED  STUDENTS  BELIEVE  CHEA TING  IS  A  PROBLEM.35%  CHEA TERS  CHEA T ON EXAMS.
WH Y  DO  STUDENTS  CHEA T?
Wha t  can  professors  do  to  reduce  chea ting?
“Maybe professors can actually go around? Like I see a lot of professors just sit there and do their own 
thing, and not caring sometimes.”
“Change assignments year-to-year or quarter-to-quarter so that past assignments can’t be used to 
cheat off of.”
“Don’t make tests. Engineering is about hands on experience so labs and projects should be a better 
way to get knowledge from a class. There will still be cheating, but it will only hurt the cheater and not 
everyone else in the class.”“Biggest incentive is other students cheating. 
If others get a better chance of earning higher 
grades then the virtue of rules and fairness in 
education diminishes. Also, cheating if used 
efficiently, allows one to learn concepts faster 
and allows time to do other stuff than spend 
time on other things than the time you’ d be 
doing homework. ”
“The stress of getting better grades gets to 
students. It becomes more important than 
actually learning the material. ”
“Because GPA and success is emphasized in 
school, not learning. ”
Is  cheating  ever  justified,  
why  or  why  not?
“Never is cheating on a test justified in my 
opinion. If it helps you to look at homework 
answers to learn the material, then I think that it 
is justified. ”
“Cheating is not justified. There is no way 
cheating should ever be justified. The integrity 
and respect of education and fairness between 
your peers are lost. However, in an environment 
where cheating is not punished or gets by, 
justification does not become the issue but more 
of how to join such social norm that is in front 
of one. ” (From a student who cheated on both 
homework and exams)
“Hell yea, homework is so fucking hard in upper 
division ECE courses. ”Study. Cheat. Repeat.
*All statistics gathered by a UCSD Guardian run poll.8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 19, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
UCSD has a zero-tolerance 
policy regarding cheating, and many 
professors do their best to prevent 
it — like Ken Zeger, an electrical 
engineering professor who’s been 
teaching at UCSD since 1996.
“I personally want my students 
to work together on their homework 
and not worry about collaboration, 
so I don’t require it to be turned in 
for a grade, ” Zeger told the Guardian. 
“Instead, their grades are based 
only on exams in my undergraduate 
classes. ”
Zeger indicated that he thinks 
that cheaters are very rarely caught, 
which may suggest that some 
professors are aware, to an extent, of 
the issue.
However, when asked about 
cheating in engineering, Tricia 
Bertram Gallant, Ph.D., Director 
of the Academic Integrity Office, 
responded that they aren’t aware that 
engineering majors are a special case 
at UCSD.
“We have no data to suggest that 
UC San Diego engineering students 
cheat more or less than their peers, ” 
Gallant said.
Arthur disagrees with this notion, 
even when it comes to tests.
“I get the impression that 
engineers have a higher rate of 
cheating on tests than other majors 
because of the competition, ” Arthur 
said. “It’s one of the most competitive 
subjects other than pre-med. ”
Even though cheating on tests 
appears far less common than 
cheating on homework, when 
students were surveyed about 
how professors could best prevent 
cheating, many students emphasized 
and described how cheating on 
exams could be stopped.“Have students discard all 
materials in their pockets before 
allowing a student to go to the 
restroom, ” said another anonymous 
responder.
This is referring to a practice 
in which, according to Arthur, 
students will take several cell 
phones to a final, so that even if they 
are asked to put their phone on the 
desk before they use the bathroom, 
they still have one in the bathroom 
to look up answers.
When asked about this practice, 
Zeger responded by discussing his 
approach of making exams that are 
difficult to look up answers to.
“I have often suspected this and 
try to design my exams so it would 
be nearly impossible to look up 
answers online, ” Zeger said. “My tests 
are not about memorization and the 
problems cannot generally be found 
online. I spend a bunch of time 
trying to create original exams. ”
Creating original exams was 
mentioned as a solution to cheating by 
several students and by Arthur, who 
recounted how once he studied an old 
midterm that ended up being identical 
to the one he took the next day.
“I was talking to an older student 
about this upper-division electrical 
and computer engineering class I 
was in, and he just gave me his old 
midterm to practice with, ” Arthur 
said between spoonfuls of soup. “I 
went over it a lot, and when I went in 
and took the midterm, it ended up 
being exactly the same, problem for 
problem. So me and my friends who 
studied with me had 80s and 90s 
when the average was around a 60. 
We got lucky on that one. ”
Despite cases like this, according 
to Gallant, UCSD is considered to 
have one of the best college programs for promoting academic integrity.
The “Excel with Integrity” model 
that Gallant refers to is one in 
which the Academic Integrity Office 
encourages students to take pride 
in honesty through a contest where 
students submit creative works that 
promote academic integrity. There 
are several prizes for the contest, and 
the first place winner receives $250 
in Triton Cash, though that would 
mostly be limited to spending at the 
bookstore or at dining halls.
“Many campuses around the 
world look to our Excel with 
Integrity initiative as a model, ” 
Gallant told the Guardian. “For 
example, we were one of the first 
universities to recruit and train 
peer educators to advise students 
and help educate them. We were 
also one of the first universities to 
respond to integrity violations as a 
“teachable moment” and now others 
look to our programs as a model to 
be replicated. ”
Back in Roots, Arthur continued 
to work on his chili so he could get 
back to the laboratory and work on 
his homework.
As for whether or not cheating is 
justified, he could not put an exact 
“yes or no” answer on it.
“It should not be justified, 
but students try to justify it to 
themselves, ” Arthur said. “If 
everyone else is doing it, why 
shouldn’t I? Everyone should be 
on the same playing field; either 
everyone should be trying to do 
things fairly, or everyone should be 
cheating. After fairness, the only 
important thing is that students are 
learning the material. ”
kyle  So m ers  ksomers@ucsd.edu readers can contactCheaters Prosper According to UCSD Guardian Run Survey
▶ DISHONESTY,  from page 6
CHECK OUT OUR 
CONTENT ONLINE
ucsdguardian.orgillustration by Elyse Yang
NEWS - OPINION - FEATURES
ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT 
LIFESTYLE - SPORTSCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 19, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
ALFREDO RODRIGUEZ TRIOFRI, 10.23 • 8pm TahrirCAMPUS
CALENDAR
OCT 19 - OCT 252015 POWERED BY THE CHANCELLOR’S OFFICE AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guardian
Calenda r
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdg uardian.orgWED 10.21 TUE 10.20
11am
BODY COMPOSITION - THE ZONE
Walk in for your free analysis which includes: body 
weight, percentage body fat, total body water, and 
blood pressure. One free assessment per quarter is 
available to registered UCSD students.
11am
STUDY ABROAD UC SAN DIEGO EXPO - PC 
WEST BALLROOM
Visit the largest Study Abroad Fair at UCSD to learn 
how you can make your global adventure happen. 
Representatives from international study, work, 
volunteer and internship programs will be on hand 
to answer questions and provide information on 
exciting opportunities all around the world. No 
matter your major, you can study abroad at UCSD. 
Pick your country, grab your passport, and embark 
on an adventure of a lifetime!
6:30pm
THE GENERAL STORE’S WEEK 4 SPOOKY OPEN 
MIC NIGHT! - THE GENERAL STORE
It's time for our quarterly open mic night again! 
Come to the G-Spot Wednesday of Week 4 and jam 
with us! And this time... wear a costume! ALL ACTS 
ARE WELCOME!  Let's eat candy and hang out, invite 
your pals! The more, the spookier! Location: 1st floor 
of the Original Student Center
FRI10.23
8pm
TRITON FEST ROCKSTAR NIGHT - 
WARREN MALL
Triton Fest Rockstar Night is here to satisfy all 
your music and entertainment needs. Learn 
the latest dance moves with a professional 
choreographer, karaoke with a live band, or 
take part in a lip sync/air guitar performance! 
Bring food for the Colleges Rock Hunger drive 
and receive special prizes!10apm
FITNESS ZONE - THE ZONE
Yoga: This class will move from one asana (pose) to 
the next. Each class is a unique sequence of asanas. 
Classes take on a life of their own with the 
culmination of collective energy, movement and 
breath. Lead by FitLife instructor Jennie Olson Six and 
Nadine Lindseth
5pm
GLOBAL SEMINAR: DRUGS, BEHAVIOR, AND 
THE HISTORY OF NEUROSCIENCE IN GREECE - 
INTERNATIONAL CENTER OCEANIDS PAVILION
Interested in studying abroad in Athens, Greece next 
summer? Come to our info session and learn more 
about this exciting program led by Professor Stephan 
Anagnostaras!
7pm
OUTREACH TRIVIA NIGHTS - MIDDLE OF MUIR 
(MOM)
FOOD, FACTS, FRIENDS, & FUN! Come to Home Plate 
Cafe to meet new people and test your knowledge of 
various trivia categories! Free entry to all UCSD 
students and prizes for winning team! Make this a 
weekly event and turn up the competition! Happy hour 
prices on food and drinks for trivia participants!  All 
students are welcome! Come as a team or by 
yourself!
THU 10.22
1:30pm
THERAPY FLUFFIES - THE ZONE
Come de-stress and play with certified therapy dogs 
at The Zone!
3pm
R&R QUAD - THE ZONE
Drop-in and get a low intensity back rub from the 
R&R Squad!
3pm
PASSPORT TO CULTURE: INDIA - 
INTERNATIONAL HOUSE- CUZCO LOUNGE
Earn your passport and "travel to India!" Learn about 
life and culture from current students who have lived 
and studied in various regions of the world. Enjoy a 
traditional taste of food from the highlighted region 
each week!  Week 4 "Passport to Culture" will 
highlight India!
5pm
LIFE SKILLS SERIES: FINANCIAL LITERACY FOR 
COLLEGE STUDENTS- CROSS- CULTURAL 
CENTER COMUNIDAD
In today's financial climate, learning to better 
manage your money now is a smart move to make. 
Learn how financial decisions you make NOW with 
student loans, and part-time work affect your ability 
to manage your future career and finances. Yolanda 
Ramirez Escamilla has more than twenty years of all 
aspects of student counselling and advising.MON 10.19
8am
PROMOTES STUDENT RIGHTS ON THE UCSD 
CAMPUS! - PC WEST, 4TH FLOOR
Are you interested in promoting and protecting the 
rights of students on the UCSD campus? If so, join the 
Office of Student Advocacy- we assist students as they 
proceed through both nonacademic and academic 
integrity cases. Send an email to as 
advocacy@ucsd.edu for more information!
11am
ART AND SOUL: DECORATING DOORMATS - THE 
ZONE
The perfect decoration your front door. Workshops are 
free; all supplies and materials provided. Be sure to get 
there 10 minutes early because space is limited, first 
come, first served.
2pm
HUNGRY FOR HEALTHY: WHITE BEAN VEGGIE 
SOUP - THE ZONE
Come join us as we make White Bean Veggie Soup, 
hosted by the Christine McNamara, the Student Health 
Services Registered Dietitian) and get FREE samples! 
Materials and ingredients are provided. Space is 
limited, first come, first served.
4:30pm
ELECTRIC SANTERIA - LITERATURE BLDG., RM 
155 (DECERTEAU ROOM)
Aisha Beliso-De Jesus, PhD, will give a talk entitled 
"New Directions in Religion and Anthropology: Electric 
Santeria." Beliso-De Jesus is Associate Professor of 
African American Religions at Harvard Divinity School.  
Her book, Electric Santeria: Racial and Sexual 
Assemblages of Transnational Religion (Columbia 
University Press, 2015) details the transnational 
experience of Santeria, in which racialized and 
gendered spirits, deities, priests, and religious travelers 
remake local, national, and political boundaries and 
actively reconfigure notions of technology and 
transnationalism. Admission to the event is free. No 
ticketing/registration.SAT 10.24
10am
GARDEN HOURS - BEHIND LA JOLLA 
DANCING BUILDING AND CHE CAFE
Interested in growing your own food? Come to 
RCG behind the CHE Cafe and the Dance Building 
in Revelle to learn about our agricultural system, 
integrated agriculture and much more! Open to 
any major or student. Plot rentals open to all who 
want to grow their own food.  We are a Student 
Run garden that believes in sustainability. Join us 
every Saturday and/or Sunday rain or shine.THE LOFT, PC WEST, LEVEL 2
10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 19, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDS$
Gua rdian Classifieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedscrossword
Across
 1 Sweetheart
 6 Volvo rival
 10 Double agent
 14 Post fresh troops
 15 “M*A*S*H” star
 16 Actor Estrada
 17 Overdo the drama
 18 Welfare
 19 Kidder’s “Superman” role
 20 Patient’s complaint
 23 False name
 24 Thalia’s sister
 25 Hot tub
 27 Climbs on
 31 In the crow’s-nest
 35 Island near Java
 38 Seldom seen
 39 Start of physician’s reply
 42 Hitch
 43 Major following?
 44 Below, poetically
 45 Meal
 47 Thurman of films
 49 Defense grp.
 52 Steps
 57 End of physician’s reply
 60 Icahn or Sagan
 61 1982 Disney flick
 62 Musical exercise piece
 63 Watch face
 64 Aaron or Williams
 65 Song from “West Side Story”
 66 Last word in a threat
 67 Dates
 68 __ we a pair?Down
 1 Author Adler
 2 Detroit dud
 3 Exxon rival
 4 Metz morning
 5 Other side’s agent
 6 Cut, as wood
 7 Motrin alternative
 8 Oil-well firefighter Red
 9 Vinegar choice
 10 Capital of Victoria
 11 Dental exam?
 12 Subway route
 13 Squeeze (out)
 21 Rascal
 22 Robert or Lance
 26 Touch against
 28 Granny
 29 Lively pace
 30 Third son
 31 Pre-1991 atlas abbr.
 32 Johnnycake
 33 Snare
 34 Specialized cell structure
 36 ABA member
 37 Stead
 40 Promises to marry
 41 Bete noire
 46 Wok sauce
 48 NYC arena
 50 Nimbi
 51 Certain bee
 53 Perfume from petals
 54 Harden
 55 French sculptor
 56 Elbow grease
 57 Spinnaker or spanker
 58 Historic stretches
 59 Pen fills
 60 B-F connectionAUTO
2001 Honda Civic - $2700. Great condition. 
165000 m. Cruise, A/C. Upgraded head 
unit. 2-door coupe. Listing ID: 194588670 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
2009 Honda Accord Coupe E - $11515. 1 
Owner. 2.4L. 4 cylinder - Automatic. Very 
clean. Great shape. This is a very nice 1 
owner vehicle that’s looking for its next 
owner. Runs and drives beautifully. The 
2.4L 4 cylinder engine runs great and has 
no issues. The automatic transmission 
shifts through every gear with no problem. 
Listing ID: 197047575 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Valve cover - $150. Toyota 22r-e cars, trucks 
and SUVs. Listing ID: 197045641 at ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tion
ELECTRONICS
Nikon D5100 DSLR - $350. I have a Nikon 
D5100 DSLR camera with a 18-55mm lens, 
8GB SD card and charger. Works perfectly. I 
just don’t use it. Records 1080p video and 
takes great images with 16.2 megapixels. 
Listing ID: 196462735 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
LG LCD TV 35 - $150. With HDMI, Component 
and AV inputs. Attractive condition. Listing 
ID: 196462739 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
Cargador Wireless Charger - $30. Wireless 
charger. Original Samsung nuevo. Listing 
ID: 196462737 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more informationFURNITURE
Microfiber Sofa Set - $450. Very good con -
dition, light blue microfiber loveseat and 
large sofa set combo for sale! Similar love -
seat and sofa sets sell for over $1000, but 
I’m selling both for $450. Both are spa -
cious/roomy for relaxing, but still fit in a 
city condo/apt. Brand: American made, HM 
Richards. Located in Downtown San Diego. 
Listing ID: 197047651 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Gray Side Table/Nightstand - $50. 
Refurbished table. Great to use in any room. 
Gray body with accented center top with 
crackle and gray metallic paint. Listing ID: 
196462752 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Ikea Desk/Table - $30. Barely used, terrific 
condition. If you’re interested in the chair, 
plus $5. Listing ID: 195208153 at ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tion
tyour vision,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel to 
promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
www.ucsdguardian.org/advertisingGET INVOLVED!
Join the Associated Students
For mo re info, visit as.ucsd .edu
as.ucsd.edu
asucsd asucsdFirst Year & Transfer Senator
Applications Now Open
& much more... 
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 19, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
driver Cole Martinez scored from 
the two-meter position with 1:39 
remaining in the third quarter. 
Long Beach’s senior defender Josh 
Tice scored only 26 seconds later, 
and UCSD entered the final quarter 
trailing by four goals.
Cal State Long Beach scored 
three straight goals to begin the 
fourth quarter, bringing its lead up 
to 7 at 9–2. It was already too late 
for the Tritons, who fell to the 49ers 
despite late goals by junior driver 
Nick Alexander and Martinez. With one last goal by Cal State Long 
Beach, the final score stood at 10–4 
in favor of the 49ers.
“We did play good defense in the 
first half, ” UCSD Head Coach Denny 
Harper told the UCSD Athletics 
Department. “To give up only three 
goals in a half to a team with that 
many weapons showed that we are 
definitely improving but clearly had 
some struggles at the offensive end. ”
In a dismal offensive 
performance, Martinez led the 
Tritons with two goals, while Turner 
totalled seven shots. For Cal State Long Beach, Miocevic scored a hat 
trick, with Stevenson and Wicken 
each adding two goals. 
After a rough couple of weeks, 
UCSD returns home to the 
Canyonview Aquatic Center for 
its next game against Air Force on 
Thursday, Oct. 22 at 6 p.m. In their 
last matchup at the Kap7 SoCal 
Tournament on Oct. 11, Air Force 
defeated UCSD 10–5.The doubles team of sophomore 
Britta Mosser and senior Kyra Scott 
competed at the USTA/ITA National 
Small College Tennis Championships 
in the Division-II doubles draw after 
their win at the USTA/ITA West 
Regional Championships in Los 
Angeles earlier this month. They 
finished sixth out of eighth after a 
couple of defeats on Thursday and 
Friday. This Triton pair is the first to 
win a USTA/ITA regional title and 
compete for a national title.
The fourth seed in the competition, 
Mosser and Scott lost on opening 
day to junior Dora Andrejszki and 
sophomore Nora Mindiyarova of 
Lewis University, 4–6, 6–3, 10–7. 
Mosser and Scott then moved on 
to the loser’s draw and a fifth place 
contest, which they lost in two sets, 
6–2 and 6–3, against senior Jessa 
Richards and freshman Kornelia 
Staniszewska of Augustana College 
on Friday.
“It was a great achievement for us to be there among some of the top 
players in the country, ” UCSD Head 
Coach Liz LaPlante told the UCSD 
Athletics Department. “Britta and 
Kyra played well and learned what they 
need to do to compete at that level. ”
Second-seeded freshman Diana 
Bogolii and junior Rosalie Willig of 
Lynn University won the doubles title, 
defeating top-seeded sophomore 
Nicole Fossa Huergo and senior 
Carolina Prats-Millan of Armstrong 
State University, 6–2, 6–2, in the final.
The National Small College 
Championships began in 1986 
and features the top student-
athletes in Division-II, Division-
III, Junior/Community College 
and the National Association of 
Intercollegiate Athletics. Each 
division features eight singles 
players and eight doubles teams.
Mosser and Scott are back in 
action at the Cal State Northridge 
Fall Invitational, Oct. 23 to Oct. 25 
in Northridge.WOMEN'S TENNIS
Doubles Team Takes Sixth 
Regional Champions Tritons compete at Nationals.
By   m a r c u s  t h u i l l i e r
Sports Editor
readers can contact
marcus thuillier  mthuilli@ucsd.edu  “It was a hard-fought game 
against a good team that is much 
better than their record, ” Head 
Coach Jon Pascale told the UCSD 
Athletics Department. “Our guys 
showed a lot of character coming 
from behind twice in the match. ”
Game Two
 Unable to rally as they did 
on Friday, the Tritons suffered 
a disappointing 3–0 shutout at 
Seawolf Soccer Field on Sunday 
against Sonoma State. With the loss, 
the Tritons fell to 5–5–6 overall and 
4–3–4 in the CCAA.
The Seawolves opened up the 
scoring in the 29th minute. Senior 
forward Brenton Frame stepped up 
and launched a penalty kick deep 
into the back of the net to push 
his team to a one-goal advantage. 
UCSD’s freshman forward Nathaniel 
Bloom took a chance to equalize 
in the 37th, but Sonoma State 
sophomore keeper Mitch North 
tipped Bloom’s effort just high of 
the mark to hold the lead entering 
the half. The Seawolves out-shot the 
Tritons 5–3 at the half.Sonoma increased the gap to two 
in the 52nd when senior midfielder 
Sean Callahan broke through the 
UCSD defense and launched a 
shot into the net from 10 feet out. 
Junior forward Armando Coronel 
drove the knife home in the 83rd, 
netting a shot from 15 feet out to 
set the Seawolves at a massive 3–0 
advantage. The Sonoma State offense 
out-shot UCSD once again by a 7–5 
margin while North held firm in the goal, amassing three saves on the 
way to victory.
The Tritons will be back at home 
against conference foe Cal State San 
Marcos at 4:30 p.m. on Wednesday, 
then will hit the road to face off against 
Chico State at 4:30 on Friday afternoon 
at University Soccer Stadium.Soccer Faces Cal State San Marcos and Chico State This Week
▶ M. SOCCER,  from page 12
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE /GUARDIAN
readers can contact
ka tie   potts   kpotts@ucsd.edu 
Return to Canyonview for a Home Matchup Against Air Force
▶ W. VOLLEYBALL,  from page 12
readers can contact
marcus  thuillier  mthuilli@ucsd.edu PHOTO USED WITH PERMISSION FROM UCSD ATHLETICSSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
MARCUS THUILLIER
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 19, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
Volleyball 
Bounces 
Back
bi-weekl y
summar y
Britta Mosser and 
Kyra Scott finished 
sixth at the USTA/ITA 
National Small College 
Tennis Championships.
Six meet records were 
beaten and one equaled 
in the annual swim and 
dive Blue vs. Gold meet. 6
6
MEN'S  SOCCER
MEN'S  W A TER  POLOUCSD
UCSDUCSDHumboldt State
CSU Long BeachSonoma State2 - 2
4 - 100 - 3
WOMEN'S
VOLLEYBALL
25 12 18 17UCSD
CSU Monterey Bay21 25 25 25
Tritons down 
CSU Monterey 
Bay three sets 
to one.
The UCSD women’s volleyball team looked 
to rebound after dropping its previous 
match to San Francisco State last Saturday 
night. The team came to play on Thursday 
night, Oct. 15 against California Collegiate 
Athletic Association rival Cal State Monterey 
Bay and won three straight sets against the 4–11 Otters to earn 
a four-set victory. Its resilience allowed UCSD to break .500 
and improve to a 10–9 record, while Cal State Monterey Bay 
dropped to a 4–12 record. 
The Tritons found themselves in a tight battle in the first set 
of the night, with the score tied 10 times throughout. Junior 
outside hitter Meagan Wright’s four kills helped keep things 
close. However, Cal State Monterey Bay’s 15 kills would prove 
too much for UCSD. The Tritons ended up on the short end of 
the stick, dropping the set 21–25.
The end of the first set was a turning point in the match for 
the Tritons. They started well in the next set, leading to an 8–1 
run to start the match. Led by senior outside hitter Danielle 
Dahle’s five kills, the streak would continue throughout the set, 
with the team amassing 10 kills with a team attack percentage of 
.810. The Tritons bested the Otters 25–12.
The last two sets were close in score, but it was clear that 
nothing could get UCSD out of its groove. The Tritons fell 
behind early in the third set, but a kill by sophomore middle blocker Rebecca Seaberry tied the game up at 8–8 and was a 
turning point in the set, as UCSD never trailed again. Although 
the set featured seven ties, UCSD ultimately handled Cal State 
Monterey Bay 25–18 to take a two-to-one set lead. 
The Tritons closed out the game in winning fashion, never 
trailing in the fourth set and beating the Otters 25–17. Dahle 
and Wright’s kill streak continued, as both dominated the final 
two sets with eight kills each.
Dahle finished the game with 16 kills and 18.0 points, while 
Wright accumulated 15 kills and 16.5 points. Sophomore middle 
blocker Alyssa McNeely hit a team-leading .667 with eight kills 
and no errors, while senior setter Heidi Sierks earned her 13th 
double-double with 46 assists and 10 digs. Sophomore outside 
hitter Amanda Colla led the team in digs with 19.
UCSD got out of its recent hitting slump to hit an impressive 
.331 for 57 kills and 14 errors in 130 total attempts, while Cal 
State Monterey Bay hit only .173 for 44 kills and 20 errors in 139 
total attempts.
“Tonight was a great win for us on the road, ” UCSD Head 
Coach Ricci Luyties told the UCSD Athletics Department. “We 
showed a lot of resilience. ”
 Up next, UCSD will host Chico State on Oct. 23.by Alex Wu // Contributing Writer
Photo by Alex Chen
readers can contact
Alex Wu   adw006@ucsd.edu 
The UCSD men’s soccer team 
ended a tough weekend of play 
with a 2–2 draw at Humboldt State 
on Friday and a disappointing 
3–0 shutout at Sonoma State on 
Sunday. After Sunday’s play, the 
Tritons sit at 5–5–5 overall and 
4–3–3 in the California Collegiate 
Athletic Association, putting them 
in a perilous position as the league 
championships draw near.
Game One
 UCSD rallied twice through 
double overtime to end Friday’s 
matchup against Humboldt State at 
a 2–2 draw — an exact repeat of last 
year’s result.
 The Lumberjacks’ sophomore 
forward Trice Smith opened the 
scoring in the 34th minute, finding 
the back of the net off a cross from 
junior forward Riki Michael to set the score at 1–0. The Tritons 
responded in the 64th minute 
as freshman midfielder Brandon 
Monteiro Magpayo nailed his first 
penalty kick of the season to tie 
the teams up. However, Humboldt 
State’s redshirt freshman midfielder 
Daniel Allred seized an opportunity 
to put his team back into the lead in 
the 79th, scoring virtually unassisted 
off a poor attempt to clear by the 
UCSD defense.
 Junior forward Sam Palano 
evened things back out in the final 
eight minutes of regulation play after 
a handball, hitting the target on the 
penalty kick to equalize and send 
the teams into overtime. Despite the 
Tritons playing a man up in the final 
6:09 of the second overtime, the 
teams remained deadlocked until 
the final whistle. With the result, 
UCSD slid to 5–4–5 overall and 
4–2–3 in CCAA play.MEN'S  W A TER  POLO
Tritons Fail to Pull Upset at Long Beach
Unable to shake off a slow start, UCSD now owns a negative record with the loss.
No. 15 UCSD took on No. 8 Cal 
State Long Beach at Ken Lindgren 
Aquatics Center and could not pull 
off the upset, losing 10–4. Despite a 
good first half, the Tritons could not 
hold off the 49ers in the second half, 
scoring only three goals to Long 
Beach’s seven. UCSD fell down to a 
negative 9–10 record while Cal State 
Long Beach improved to 7–9.
The 49ers’ freshman defender 
Austin Stevenson opened the score 
on a penalty shot after just 24 seconds 
of play. After freshman defender 
Keegan Wicken doubled the score 
on a 6-on-5 situation, UCSD finally 
broke through and scored through 
junior driver Andy Moore with 1:18 
left in the first quarter.  
After the first quarter ended 
a 2–1 in favor of the home team, 
Cal State Long Beach’s sophomore attacker Lovro Miocevic scored on 
another penalty shot during the 
second quarter, bringing the score 
to 3–1 at the half. UCSD had a hard 
time mustering any flow on offense, 
and it was outshot by the 49ers 
during the first half.Even worse, Triton redshirt 
freshman goalie Jack Turner had 
zero saves during the second half. 
Cal State Long Beach jumped to a 
5–1 lead before redshirt freshman 
See M. WATER POLO , page 11PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE /GUARDIANMEN'S  SOCCER
UCSD in Perilous Position 
Weekend’s results hinder Tritons’ chances for CCAAs.
By   m a r c u s   t h u i l l i e r
Sports EditorBy   K a t i e   P o t t s
Editorial Assistant
See M. SOCCER , page 11M. Golf
W. Golf
M. Soccer
W. Soccer
M. Water Polo  10/19
  10/20
  10/21
  10/21
  10/22AT Otter Invitational
AT Otter Invitational
VS CSU San Marcos
VS CSU San Marcos
VS Air ForceUPCOMING
UCSD
GAMES