VOLUME 48, ISSUE 58  THURSDAY , MAY 28, 2015 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
PLAY IS 
SHAWSOME
GEORGE BERNARD SHAW’S 
CLASSIC, “ARMS AND THE 
MAN,” WOWS AT THE OLD 
GLOBE THEATER AS FLAWLESS 
ACTING COMPLETES A SHARP 
AND TIME-TESTED ROMANTIC 
COMEDY.
LIFE   WITHOUT   ART
GUARDIAN  A W ARDSucsd   art  galler y   shut down
This  year's  winners  are...OPINION,  P age   4
sPORTS,  P age  12
THURSDAY
H 71 L 60FRIDAY
H 72 L 60
SATURDAY
H 73 L 60SUNDAY
H 73 L 60
FORECASTWEEKEND,  P AGE  6
PHOTO PERMISSION OF JIM COX
Looking to
BUY A HOME
near UCSD?Look no further... Scan below
for UTClistings
CALL 619-846-5843.....VISIT providentialusa.com
AROUND CAMPUS
UC SYSTEM
UC Alumni Sign Petition to 
Redefine Anti-Semitism
Twenty-three organizations and 521 University 
of California alumni submitted a petition 
to UC President Janet Napolitano last 
Wednesday demanding that she formally adopt the 
U.S. Department of State’s definition of anti-Semitism. 
The petition is a response to multiple reported anti-
Semitic incidents that have occurred across the various 
UC campuses.
For instance, vandals defaced a UC Davis fraternity 
house with anti-Semitic graffiti last February. More 
recently, student government representatives at 
UCLA questioned a Jewish student’s ability to remain 
unbiased and nearly rejected her nomination to their 
judicial board until a faculty advisor intervened. 
Napolitano told radio station WBUR that while 
she agrees with the petition’s main request, instituting 
such a change is ultimately in the hands of the UC 
Board of Regents.
“I have my own personal view, and my personal 
view is that we should [adopt the State Department’s 
definition], but I think the Board of Regents has to 
resolve that as a policy for the University of California, ” 
Napolitano said.
The State Department’s definition identifies anti-
Semitism with regard to Israel when the actions in 
question demonize or delegitimize the state. This 
could range from using symbols associated with anti-
Semitism to characterize Israel or Israelis or drawing 
comparisons between Israel’s public policies to those 
of the Nazi regime, among others.
The petition also calls for UC chancellors to train 
faculty and staff to identify anti-Semitic behavior 
and to appropriately address anti-Semitism on 
their campuses. In addition, the petition charges 
UC chancellors with educating each of their respective campus communities about anti-Semitic 
discrimination. Supporters of the petition hope that 
the measures, if implemented, will provide greater 
protection to the Jewish community. 
Thurgood Marshall College junior and incoming 
A.S. VP External Affairs Krystl Fabella told the     
UCSD Guardian that she supports the cause 
because students should not feel disadvantaged or 
unwelcomed in any situation on campus on the basis 
of personal differences.
“ A student should never have to be concerned 
that their faith, religious and cultural background, 
ethnicity, sexual orientation will jeopardize a position 
they are applying for, an [organization] they want to 
join or their safety and freedom to express themselves 
at UCSD, ” Fabella said. “I will [see] that we relay 
strict guidelines to make sure the Associated Student 
government and other student [organizations] are not 
exercising any discriminative forms of recruitment or 
membership processes. ”
While Fabella expressed approval of the initiative, 
she added that it should not infringe upon students’ 
freedom to have diverse political opinions by 
promoting one faith over another.
“It is important we do not allow [the petition] to 
misconstrue or condemn political activities of students 
who have the freedom to oppose foreign policies and 
take stances on the Israel-Palestine conflict, ” Fabella 
explained. “ At the same time, we must take all measures 
to make sure students are not targeted, discriminated 
against nor ever feel isolated as a community by the 
UC [system] because of their religious affiliations. ”
The regents will vote on whether to adopt the State 
Department’s definition of anti-Semitism at their next 
board meeting in July.  B y  ANDREW CHAO    STAFF WRITER Damaged 
Pipeline 
Leaks Oil 
Into OceanCALIFORNIA
Government officials directed 
Plains All American Pipeline to 
clean Santa Barbara’s coastline 
before resuming production.
B Y  Omkar mahajan
contributing writer
Plains All American Pipeline, an 
oil company in Santa Barbara, leaked 
105,000 gallons of crude oil after a 
pipeline ruptured last Tuesday.
However, the causes of the ruptured 
pipeline remain unknown. Ted Mar, 
the chief of the prevention branch of 
the California Department of Fish and 
Wildlife’s Office of Spill Prevention 
and Response, elaborated on why the 
exact causes have not been identified. 
“Pipelines are everywhere 
throughout the East Bay complex, and 
where there are pipelines there is the 
possibility of a rupture, ” Mar said to 
SFGate. “There are all sorts of different 
reasons a pipeline might fail. ”
The federal government responded 
to this disaster by ordering Plains All 
American Pipeline to temporarily stop 
production in order to make safety 
adjustments and clean up the spill. 
According to an online press 
release, California Attorney General 
Kamala D. Harris also launched an 
investigation into the oil spill. 
“California’s coastline is one of the 
state’s most precious natural treasures. 
This oil spill has scarred the scenic 
Santa Barbara coast, natural habitats 
and wildlife, ” Harris said. “My office 
is working closely with our state and 
federal partners on an investigation 
of this conduct to ensure we hold 
responsible parties accountable. ” 
Plains All American Pipeline 
responded to the government’s request 
to clean up the spill. Senior Director of 
Safety and Security Patrick Hodgins 
told the Associated Press that the 
company is committed to cleaning up 
the oil spill. 
“Our goal is zero [spills]. Are we 
happy with this unfortunate event? 
Absolutely not, ” Hodgins said. 
“We’re going to be here until it is 
taken care of. ”
Furthermore, the company issued 
a statement with its intent to stop the 
flow of the oil spill. 
“The culvert has been blocked 
so no additional oil is reaching the 
water, ” the statement said. “Plains 
See OIL, page 3ANDREW CHAO   AVCHAO@ucsd.edu readers can contact
Representatives from International Justice Mission table at UCSD’s second annual Social Justice Cafe Night earlier this week.
Photo by Siddharth Atre / UCSD Guardian.
VERBATIM
CHILDREN 
TRULY 
SUFFERING 
FROM THIS 
DISEASE DO 
NOT GET THE 
NECESSARY 
CARE...”
-Ayat Amin & Marcus 
Thuillier 
Around the Globe
OPINION , PAGE 4“
2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 28, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG N EWS
AVERAGE CAT By Christina Carlson
Registration for SPRING Qtr is NOW open!
Register online at 
as.ucsd.edu/saferides
A.S. Safe Rides allows registered undergraduate 
stude nts to get 3 FREE rides per quarter.
Stude nts must register at least 24 hours
prior to their first ride. A.S. Safe Rides 
asucsd asucsd
#OMG 
#LIKE US
#FOLLOW US
@ucsdguar dianOver 10 advocacy-oriented 
campus organizations came together 
for the second annual Social Justice 
Cafe Night in PC West Ballroom on 
Tuesday, May 26. Each of the groups 
held presentations alongside student 
performers in the hopes of connecting 
the general student body with 
unique and often under-represented 
social justice issues, both local and 
international.
David Wang of LINK at UCSD 
and Meghan Tavala of InterVarsity 
hosted the event and the overall 
theme of the night was “community 
overcoming adversity. ” According to 
fellow organizer Pauline Chang, this 
reflected the idea that although it may 
be difficult for individual efforts to 
create tangible changes, being aware of 
each other’s social justice issues would 
enable students to make an impact. 
“It was to show that little events 
seem insignificant, but a lot of the 
orgs will share how a lot of the victims 
have a lot of gratitude toward the 
community support, ” Chang told the 
UCSD Guardian.
Organizations including Tritons for UNICEF, Students Against Mass 
Incarceration, International Justice 
Mission and the Palomar Korean 
Church served refreshments and 
informed students about the causes 
they represented. Performers included 
Spirit LED, Selah a cappella and Craig 
Marker, who also sang at this year’s 
Sun God Festival. 
Chang, a Marshall College 
sophomore, helped contact prospective 
organizations for the Social Justice Cafe 
Night. She explained that last year’s 
event was solely an awareness concert, 
but this year’s gathering featured actual 
expositions so attendees could walk 
around and talk to organizations 
individually. She posted individual 
community bios on the Facebook 
event page beforehand.
“It’s a very special event, and it’s 
hard for these types of social justice 
orgs to retain members, ” Chang said. 
“Thus, we realized how important it 
was for them to unite and collaborate 
on something that’s bigger and more 
impactful. In fact, there were some 
orgs that weren’t interested. This is sort 
of a faith-based event and I personally 
wanted to show what we’re passionate 
about as Christians. ” 
Eleanor Roosevelt College junior 
Lydia Kim was a representative from UCSD’s Liberty in North Korea chapter. 
The organization works toward 
liberating North Korean refugees from 
their repressive backgrounds.
“ A lot of people focus on the 
dictatorship, the leaders, rather than 
the people so we really want to focus 
on showing that the people are just 
like us and raise awareness, ” Kim said. 
“ All of the proceeds that we collect go 
toward rescuing the refugees. LINK 
has a program where they connect 
with North Koreans who are hiding 
out in other countries, kind of like a 
modern-day Underground Railroad. ”
Sarah Vella, president of 
Combating Human Trafficking, was 
also in attendance. She explained 
to the Guardian that her club’s 
goals were to support awareness of 
human trafficking and to combat the 
myths perpetuated by the media and 
sensationalist movies. 
“ A lot of people aren’t aware of what 
really goes on in human trafficking and 
why it’s caused and what can be done 
to prevent it, ” Vella said. “We currently 
work with two NGOs, Border Angels 
and the Bilateral Safety Corridor 
Coalition ... For students who really 
want to do activism and get out there, 
it’s important that they get out in the 
community. It’s not something they can learn in a textbook. For the people 
that are trafficked, there is no social 
justice right now, and we’re trying 
to get people thinking about what’s 
going on. ”
Revelle College freshman Drew 
Jarrett performed spoken word at the 
event. She recited Shane Koyczan’s 
poem “The Crickets Have Arthritis, ” 
which is about a terminally ill boy in a 
hospital bed.
“When I first heard this poem, 
the first thing that came to my mind 
was, ‘How can I make the world a 
better place? [And] for the kids in the 
world today?’” Jarrett said. “My parents 
always raised me to be very versed in 
current news, not just what happened 
to this celebrity or that celebrity. What 
I want people to take away from the 
poem is to not squander [their lives]. 
While you’re sitting around, there’s 
a lot more to this world than just 
magazines and things like that. ” 
She concluded that the event was 
awe-inspiring and made her smile to 
see organizations come together and 
bring information on serious issues to 
the public.CAMPUS
Members of various groups presented material relevant to the event’s theme of “community overcoming diversity. ”
b y Andrew E. huang
managing editorStudent Organizations Host Annual Social Justice Cafe Night 
Andrew Huang  aehuang@ucsd.edu readers can contact
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGsee more atThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and 
Thursdays during the academic year by UCSD students 
and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this 
newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, 
without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2015, all 
rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible 
for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The 
views expressed herein do not necessarily represent 
the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of 
California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian 
is funded by advertising. The Illuminati brought us confetti
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Editor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
  
Associate News Editor
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Social Media Coordinator
Training and Development
Page Layout
Allison Kubo
Distribution
Christopher Graves, Josef Goodyear, Vincent Pham
Copy Readers
Andrew Chao, Caroline Lee, Sage Schubert Christian, Marissa 
Barber, Heejung Lim
Editorial Assistants
Shelby Newallis, Karly Nisson, Mario Attie, Katie Potts,
 Allison Kubo, Jacky To  Aleksandra Konstantinovic
Andrew E. Huang  
Taylor Sanderson
Tina Butoiu
Kriti Sarin
Cassia Pollock
Marcus Thuillier
Teiko Yakobson
Jacqueline Kim
Kyle Somers
Nilu Karimi
Siddharth Atre
Jonathan Gao
Joselynn Ordaz
Sherman Aline
Elyse Yang
Annie Liu
Rosina Garcia
Jennifer Grundman
Laura Chow
Vincent Phamdeeply regrets this release has occurred 
and is making every effort to limit its 
environmental impact. ”
Some believe that Plains All 
American Pipeline could have 
prevented the oil spill if it had 
complied with Santa Barbara County 
regulations, which require certain tools 
controlling pipelines that could stop 
the flow of oil spills if they occur. 
However, the company contested this 
and successfully took the issue to 
court, arguing that since their pipelines 
crossed state lines, they should follow 
federal guidelines instead of local 
regulations. 
Linda Krop, a representative of the 
Environmental Defense Center, the 
leading advocacy group on oil and gas 
exploration in the Santa Barbara area, 
believes that the disaster could have been prevented. 
“It’s really frustrating, ” Krop said 
in an interview with the Earth Island 
Journal. “The technology existed to 
shut the pipeline automatically. If 
they’ d had it, there would have been no 
leak into the ocean. ”
The U.S. Coast Guard has also 
been working on cleaning up the oil 
spill. However, Capt. Jennifer Williams 
of the U.S. Coast Guard explained to 
reporters from NBC that the spill is 
not even close to being completely 
removed. 
“Cleanup doesn’t happen overnight. 
It’s a moving target when you’re talking 
about oil on the water. It’s a very 
difficult process, ” Williams said. “It 
could take months. ”
The U.S. Coast Guard reported to 
CNN that 10,000 gallons of oily water 
have been removed, in addition to 
800 cubic yards of oily soil and 91 cubic yards of oily solids removed from 
beaches. 
Environmental activists have 
denounced the oil firm and called 
on the government to stop future 
oil projects. Activists have pointed 
out numerous wildlife have been 
negatively affected by the oil spill. 
Currently one seal and six pelicans 
have been found covered in oil. An 
undisclosed number of animals have 
been killed by the oil spill. 
Though this oil spill is large, it 
is significantly smaller than the 1969 
Santa Barbara oil spill, which leaked 
more than 2 million gallons. The U.S. 
Coast Guard and the oil company will 
continue to clean up the spill. N EWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 28, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
Looking for the 
New Business 
Column?
Now posted every Wednesday 
night, after the A.S. Council 
meeting, online.
ucsdguardian.orgU.S. Coast Guard Has Extracted 10,000 Gallons of  Polluted Water 
▶ OIL, from page 1
Omkar mahajan  omahajan@ucsd.edu readers can contact
IN BRIEFWRITTEN BY 
Brynna Bolt // Senior Staff Writer
bbolt@ucsd.edu
University Centers Advisory Board voted to allocate an open space in Original Student Center 
to the Black Resource Center at its May 26 meeting.
The future of the space has been an ongoing topic of discussion for the past four weeks, with 
both Triton TV and Coalition for Critical Asian American Studies also expressing interest in 
occupying the spot. Furthermore, all three organizations previously made presentations to the board 
as to why their respective organization should receive the space and how each would make use of it.
UCAB previously proposed and voted on a separate motion at a meeting two weeks prior, 
during which they determined that CAAS would receive the location. They later made another 
motion to rescind the first after learning that a proxy voting member of the earlier meeting was 
directly involved with the organization. 
UCAB Vice Chair Luke Wang said that the reason behind the rescindment was to maintain the 
integrity of the board. 
“We decided a re-vote without the proxy would be the most transparent thing to do, ” Wang told 
the UCSD Guardian.
Consequently, another voting member proposed a new motion to allocate the spot to BRC at 
this week’s meeting. The final tally for the vote on Tuesday stood as eight members in favor, one 
against and four abstentions. UCAB Designates Original Student Center Space to Black Resource Center4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 28, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CASSIA  POLLOCK
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Welcome to the generation 
of spoiled brats. We cry, 
we whine and we always 
get what we want from childhood on. 
This is especially true in a country 
like the United States, where a com -
mon way of raising your kids includes 
letting them do whatever they want. 
Many American children are raised 
in an environment devoid of strict 
rules and limits, which shows in their 
mental and physical development. In 
“Bringing Up Bebe, ” author Pamela 
Druckerman suggests that one conse -
quence of this is the high number of 
kids diagnosed with attention deficit 
hyperactivity disorder in the U.S. 
Psychology Today magazine says that 
number is about 9 percent. That same 
statistic in France? Only 0.5 percent. 
This demonstrates that the stricter 
parenting styles commonly used in 
France are having a positive impact on 
their children’s ability to focus.
The biggest explanation for this 
gap comes from each country’s defini -
tion of ADHD. In the U.S., a kid is 
deemed to have ADHD as soon as 
they behave a little more hyperactively 
than their counterparts. ADHD is 
considered to be a disease that mani -
fests in physical symptoms, and it is 
usually treated with a buttload of pills 
in America: “ About half of preschool -
ers with ADHD were taking medica -
tion for ADHD, and about one in four 
were treated only with medication, ” 
said the Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention. “ Approximately 11 
percent of children 4 to 17 years of 
age (6.4 million) have been diagnosed 
with ADHD as of 2011, ” adds a survey 
entitled “Parent-Report of Health Care 
Provider-Diagnosis and Medication 
Treatment for ADHD, ” and they are 
then forced to take “calming pills” for 
the rest of their childhood — maybe 
even adolescence. About 25,000 stu -
dents attend UCSD, so statistically 
speaking, about 2,500 would be diag -
nosed with ADHD during childhood.
This causes a major problem. 
Children truly suffering from this 
disease do not get the necessary 
care, and children who are energetic 
and easily distracted by an overly 
stimulating environment see their 
growth altered by the quantity of pills 
ingurgitated. The situation is handled 
very differently in France, where the 
disease is considered to be psychologi -
cal as opposed to physiological. This 
reduces the number of diagnosed 
children. Care2 states that “French 
child psychiatrists prefer to look for 
the underlying issue that is causing 
the child distress — not in the child’s 
brain but in the child’s social context. ” 
As the child’s environment leads them 
to act out, they should be treated with 
therapy or changes in lifestyle, which 
is generally controlled by their parents.
Care2 continues, saying that “in 
addition, child psychiatrists in France 
don’t use the same system of classifica -
tion of childhood emotional problems 
as American psychiatrists, and their 
definition of ADHD is not as broad 
as in the American system, ” leading to 
more accurate diagnostics.
One last reason for this gap in 
ADHD diagnosis is provided by 
Marilyn Wedge in Psychology Today: 
French children learn self-control and 
understand the rules, established by 
the parents, whereas in the American 
family, the child holds more power 
than they can handle.American 
Lifestyle 
Exacerbates 
ADHD
Last week, a group of 700 Uni -
versity of California alumni signed a 
petition urging UC President Janet        
Napolitano and the UC regents to 
adopt the U.S. State Department’s defi -
nition of anti-Semitism. The petition 
was initially drafted by the AMCHA 
Initiative, a non-profit organization 
seeking to combat anti-Semitism at 
higher education institutions, this past 
March in response to the increas -
ing number of anti-Semitic activities 
happening across the UC campuses. 
Protecting students’ well-being and 
discouraging discrimination is imper -
ative to providing a safe environment 
for growth and education. However, it 
is just as important to ensure that anti-
discriminatory practices are applied 
evenly, extending their protections to 
students of all religions.
The petition came about after 
several distressing incidents wherein 
anti-Semitic slurs cropped up across 
five UC campuses. Most notably: the 
vandalism of the Jewish fraternity 
house at UC Davis, Nazi slurs being 
graffitied in the bathrooms at UC 
Berkeley, threats to shut down a Hillel 
event at UC Santa Cruz, UCLA ’s stu -
dent government initially rejecting a 
student from a board position because 
she is Jewish and the dissemination of 
flyers accusing Jews as being responsi -
ble for 9/11. However, the threatening 
phone calls and emails identifying the 
Students for Justice in Palestine at UC 
Berkeley with terrorist organizations 
are just as distressing. Additionally, redefining anti-Semitism in this newly 
proposed form is problematic because 
it could easily classify legitimate pro -
tests against Israel’s actions as being 
anti-Semitic.
The current definition of anti-
Semitism would be expanded to 
include acts that demonize, employ 
double standards against or delegiti -
mize Israel. Although these changes 
in the definition will hopefully curb 
vitriolic insults toward students at UC  
campuses, it is important that such 
provisions are extended to all religious 
groups, just as they currently extend 
to all ethnic and cultural groups. 
Expanding the definition of anti-Sem -
itism alone, without expanding the 
definition of every anti-religious word, 
neglects the rights of other students. 
No individual should feel unsafe on 
campus because of personal affiliations 
and beliefs. 
One of the terms in the new 
definition is accusing Israel as the 
cause for political and cross-religious 
tensions. Inhibiting individuals from 
criticizing Israel’s actions is censor -
ship. As long as the speech does not 
present “a clear and present danger, ” 
students should be able to express 
their First Amendment-protected 
opinions. While some students will 
be offended by these arguments, 
it does not give anyone the right 
to silence the voices of others. In 
addition, the AMCHA letter stated 
that the divestment from Israel 
resolutions and protests was the source of hate speech and harass -
ment experienced by Jewish students 
across university campuses. Being 
able to criticize Israel and the Israeli 
government’s actions is important 
to keep debates and discussion alive. 
However, the graffiti and the slurs 
seen around UC campuses as of late 
are pure vitriol, and they discredit a 
potentially valid argument. The focus 
is instead redirected to the malice 
being inflicted on students who are 
not responsible for what’s happening 
thousands of miles away. These ac -
tions are inexcusable, but attempting 
to correct one offense with another 
is not the way to keep students safe 
or prevent future harms. Technically 
speaking, whatever anyone says can 
cause offense to someone, but this 
does not mean that the best course of 
action is silence and avoiding conflict 
altogether.
Discriminatory violence, mental 
and physical, and its potentially 
catastrophic effects is something ev -
eryone should be aware of. Limiting 
what is defined as hate speech to only 
specific groups, however, will inevita -
bly exacerbate discriminatory prac -
tices. Thus, education and definitions 
about prejudice must be as inclusive 
as the campus culture that these 
types of educational programs are 
intended to propagate. Furthermore, 
higher education institutions are 
meant to teach people how to think 
critically not to remain passive out of 
fear of possibly offending others. All Religions Deserve Equal Protection From Discrimination
Aleksandra Konstantinovic
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Andrew E. Huang
MANAGING EDITOR
Taylor Sanderson
MANAGING EDITOR
Cassia Pollock
OPINION EDITOR
Tina Butoiu
NEWS EDITOR
Kriti Sarin
ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITOR
Jacky To
NEWS EDITORIAL ASSISTANT
Kyle Somers
ASSOCIATE A&E EDITOR
Marcus Thuillier
SPORTS EDITOR
Rosina Garcia
COPY EDITOR
The UCSD Guardian is published twice weekly at 
the University of California at San Diego. Contents 
© 2015. Views expressed herein represent the major -
ity vote of the editorial board and are not necessarily 
those of the UC Board of Regents, the ASUCSD or 
the members of the Guardian staff.EDITORIAL  BOARD
EDITORIALS
Marcus thuillier  //
A y a t amin 
opinion@ucsdguardian.orgAcross the globe
ILLUSTRATION BY ANNIE LIU
Our University Art Gallery is closing. Campus officials 
continue to deny this statement and assert that it will 
instead be “placed on hold. ” However, come July, the 
UAG will be without a staff, without open doors and without 
art — it will be closed. Only administrative higher-ups hoping to 
save face and prevent campuswide outcry refuse to admit this. 
Sure, it might reopen one day. But so might Graffiti Hall, 
the Che Cafe and Porter’s Pub. Our campus leaders continue to 
devalue and eradicate UCSD’s most prominent spaces of free 
and creative expression — which really belong to the students, 
their financial sponsors. And this is happening very quietly. 
Other than an exclusive email sent to visual arts department 
faculty and Dean Cristina Della Coletta’s diatribe at the opening 
of the UAG’s most recent exhibit, the administration has 
remained silent about this topic and successfully kept it out of 
campus consciousness. 
This pattern of minimal administrative transparency is 
troubling whether you care about the UAG or not because it 
illustrates the university’s complete lack of interest in student 
opinion, especially if it conflicts with its interests. By refusing to 
admit the gallery is closing, the administration has finally found 
an effective way to silence student outrage over the closure of our spaces: If we don’t know it’s happening, it can quietly 
shut the gallery over the summer. Furthermore, the fact that 
this is happening to a facility solely dedicated to fine arts — a 
discipline whose primary purpose, arguably, is to critique — 
confirms the administration’s total apathy toward the student 
body’s voice.
If this trend persists, UCSD will be the pinnacle of 
oxymorons — an educational institution without internal 
critique. And it will be alone in this regard, as the only UC 
campus without an art gallery. Some campuses even have 
their own full museums devoted to art. Why are we the only 
campus with this problem? What is it about UCSD — its 
administration, students and culture — that continues to allow 
these expression-halting events to happen?
Some will answer these questions by pointing to our 
university’s scientific, “research-oriented” goals. Though this 
is true about UCSD, it is true of UC system as a whole. Y et 
the other campuses maintain the value of art; they keep their 
galleries open. Our alma mater, though, has an entirely different 
agenda altogether.
Art does not generate as much profit as research, and it does 
not do anything to strengthen the campus’ standing in terms of 
See ART GALLERY , page 5Abandoned Art
In a step that reinforces the administration’s 
reputation of  shutting down student spaces, such 
as the Che Cafe, Graffiti Hall and Porter’s Pub, 
the University Art Gallery will soon be closed. The 
Ed Board laments the loss of  yet another artistic 
venue for freedom of  expression.OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 28, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
practicality or the earning power 
of its vaunted STEM degrees. 
Therefore, from the university’s 
perspective, these art spaces 
are unnecessary and ultimately 
a financial burden. If the UAG 
charged for admission or attached 
a donor’s name to it, there would 
be no cause to shut it down. Like 
our expansive and profitable music 
or theater district, it would be 
respected and admired. Since the 
gallery kept most of its exhibits 
free for students and relied on the 
university for funding, it is now 
being closed indefinitely. And as 
the administrators roll around 
gleefully in the piles of cash that 
they’ll save from closing the gallery, 
all of those who fought for our 
right to freedom of expression roll around desperately in their graves.
Students must then decide for 
themselves whether they want 
UCSD to be a business — which 
it currently seems to be — or a 
university. When choosing the latter, 
they must be loud and direct about 
it. Administrators won’t listen to 
students if they can’t hear them. 
Once they can, they will have the 
proper incentive to act accordingly. 
The recent approval of the two-year 
UC tuition freeze in response to 
student outrage and action is real-
life proof of this philosophy. Though 
students have begun to send emails 
of disapproval to both the division 
of arts and humanities and the 
visual arts department, the majority 
of them are visual arts majors 
themselves — a campus minority. 
In order to convince the university 
that UCSD’s student body truly cares about the UAG and institutions like 
it, admins will need to hear this from 
engineering majors, economics 
majors, history majors and 
students from all fields of study. 
Only then will administrators feel 
pressured to act. 
Furthermore, students must 
communicate with their leaders 
and, even more importantly, with 
their peers about why we need the 
gallery and, essentially, why art is 
important — a gruelingly difficult 
task. We need not abandon our arts 
in pursuit of science. By helping 
others to understand the benefits, 
both cultural and practical, of 
keeping our University Art Gallery 
open, we can change the minds of 
individuals and, in turn, reverse 
the unrelenting tide of an apathetic 
system hell-bent on steamrolling 
over the humanities.
For more info, email Katie Hosch at runswimgal@gmail.com /  khosch@ucsd.edu or contact 805.901.1944JUNE 4 · 3-6PM
JUNE 4 · 3-6PM
SUN GOD LAWN
Bring it back to your childhood roots,
and join us in a bbq with polaroids,
carnival games, and bubbles!
Food includes hot dogs, hamburgers,
and vegetarian dishes! Bring It Back 
Bring It Back 
BBQ
BBQ
BEAR GARDEN
Senior Send-off
FREE FOR ALL UCSD UNDERGRADS
JUNE 5, 3-6 PM, RIMAC FIELD
All ages welcome
Free for UC San Diego undergrad students with valid student I.D. 
21+ bring valid government issued I.D. in addition to student I.D.For more information, please contact ASCE at avpconcerts@ucsd.edu
Churros
El TigreLittle
CaesarsDelicioso
Catering
Food TruckKettle
Masters 
Kettle Korn
CONFUSED MUSED By Elyse Yang
GOT ISSUES?
BE HEARD
BY YOUR PEERS!SEND YOUR 
LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Students Must Voice Their Disapproval of  UCSD Art Gallery’s Closure
▶ ART GALLERY ,  from page 4WeekendARTS  |  FOOD & DRINK  |  LIVING  |  FILM & TV  |  MUSIC  |  THINGS TO DO
WEEKENDARTS   |   FOOD & DRINK   |   LIVING   |   FILM  &  TV   |   MUSIC   |   THINGS  TO  DO
Arms and 
the ManPLA Y   REVIEW
B Y  Jacqueline  kim   A&E Editor
All’s fair in love and war in the Old Globe’s adaptation of one of the earliest rom-coms to grace the stage.
Far away from the cold night air of Eliza Doo -
little’s London dwell the noble Petkoffs in their 
comfortable, idyllic realm in Bulgaria. The year is 
1885, and the two-week Serbo-Bulgarian War has just 
ended. The Bulgarians celebrate their victory, and the 
Serbian army slinks around at night, trying to escape 
the zealous Bulgarian and Russian soldiers’ rifles.
It is this backdrop which famed Irish playwright 
George Bernard Shaw chose for his acclaimed comedy 
“ Arms and the Man, ” long before penning his most 
best known work, “Pygmalion, ” the source material for 
the musical and Audrey Hepburn film “My Fair Lady. ” 
Y et instead of a rags-to-riches tale that transforms an 
unrefined waif into a fine noblewoman, as the latter is, 
“ Arms and the Man” follows a heroine whose ideals, 
rather than her social standing, are changed.
The lady in question, of course, is Raina Pet -
koff (Wrenn Schmidt, “Boardwalk Empire”), who is 
engaged to war hero Sergius (Enver Gjokaj, “ Agent 
Carter”). But when a practical Swiss mercenary 
Bluntschli (Zach Appelman, replaced by Jake Millgard 
in the showing reviewed) who had fought on the side 
of the Serbs takes refuge in her room, Raina begins to 
question her beliefs on romance and war. Inevitably, 
a love triangle — or perhaps more accurately, a love 
pentagon — ensues, with Raina’s heart split between 
the two soldiers as her fiance romances the rebellious, 
coquettish maid Louka (Sofiya Akilova).
A smartly written romantic comedy such as this 
could not hold without a solid ensemble to deliver 
clever line after clever line. This weekend’s showing 
was undoubtedly a test of the cast’s strength and sense 
of unity, as Appelman was unable to perform and 
was replaced by Millgard, who played Bluntschli on 
book. Despite the hiccup in production, the rest of the 
cast performed without a hitch as a cohesive whole. 
Schmidt portrayed Shaw’s protagonist as a loveable but 
flighty young girl whose effervescence is reminiscent 
of a Disney princess until she grows up into her own 
as a headstrong woman. Four-time Oscar nominee 
Marsha Mason brought down-to-earth hilarity to the 
role of Raina’s doting mother Catherine, who helps her daughter secretly take care of the enemy soldier. 
And even with a script at hand at all times, Mill -
gard’s dynamic reading still brought Bluntschli’s 
resourceful character to life, further proving that 
the real heart and soul of what makes Shaw work is 
the art of his words.
The real show-stealer, however, was Gjokaj, 
whose outrageous performance gave a support -
ing character all the charisma best warranted for 
a lead. Whether he playfully blew an uncount -
able number of kisses to his fiancee or comically 
slammed his foot on a chair, Gjokaj’s Sergius 
simply demanded that his presence be recognized 
by other characters — and by the audience. It’s no 
matter that the character was likely not intended to 
be wholly likeable; the loads of memorable charm 
in his silliness and chivalric overtures paradoxically 
gave the play its comedic weight.
Y et the humor of “ Arms and the Man” couldn’t 
be contained to the stage. During the showing’s 
two intermissions, fiddler Ernest Sauceda played 
traditional Bulgarian tunes in the lobby and then 
milled about the seats — still armed with his fiddle 
— to put on amusing interactive performances 
with the audience. Smashing the fourth wall, or 
at least taunting it with his music, Sauceda went 
directly from the audience’s seating area to the 
stage to play the role of the village musician, whose 
melodies were shooed or encouraged by various 
characters depending on their moods throughout 
the play.
Indeed, the Globe’s production of “ Arms 
and the Man” has recreated Shaw’s comic spirit. 
Despite being a period piece, the play manages 
to bring attention to the problems of romanticiz -
ing love and war in any era. Truly, as an easily 
digestible show for a contemporary audience, this 
adaptation does justice to George Orwell’s praise 
of the play: “It is probably the wittiest play [Shaw] 
ever wrote, the most flawless technically, and in 
spite of being a very light comedy, the most telling 
[for every age]. ”
Directed by  Jessica Stone 
Written by  George Bernard Shaw
Starring Wrenn Schmidt, Zach Appelman, Enver 
Gjokaj, Marsha Mason, Conrad John Shuck
Runs May 9 to June 14
Location The Old Globe Theatre
PHOTOS USED WITH PERMISSION FROM JOE COX VIA THE OLD GLOBEA&E EDITOR // 
JACQUELINE KIM 
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // 
NILU KARIMI  
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
PHOTOS USED WITH PERMISSION FROM JOE COX VIA THE OLD GLOBE
PHOTOS USED WITH PERMISSION FROM JOE COX VIA THE OLD GLOBEWEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 28, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
If you like vaguely optimistic 
statements, grumpy George 
Clooney, smart heroines or 
stunning visuals, you should thor -
oughly enjoy “Tomorrowland. ” In 
other words, it’s a movie everyone 
can like if you sit back and don’t 
ask too many scientific questions.
Casey Newton (Britt Robertson) 
finds a mysterious pin in her pos -
session. This pin temporarily trans -
ports her to idyllic wheat fields and 
a utopic future city of soaring tow -
ers and great feats of engineering and physics. However the pin runs 
out of time and leaves Casey long -
ing for this beautiful ideal of the fu -
ture. The audience is also left long -
ing for more of the utopia because 
that sequence contains most of the 
actual Tomorrowland screen time. 
Tomorrowland is like you’ve seen 
it in Disneyland: disgustingly opti -
mistic, a bit 50s retro and lacking in 
tangible science. But it is also visu -
ally stunning and imaginative, with 
steel ships that fly overhead and div -
ing pools that defy gravity. The in -habitants are inventors, scientists 
and artists who are recruited to live 
and create in this utopia away from 
the politics and greed of Earth. It’s 
no wonder that Casey is desperate 
to return to the world of her vision. 
But all entrances have been shut 
down and guarded by robot G-Men. 
Enter an irascible Clooney. 
Clooney plays Frank Walker, a To -
morrowland recruit who has grown 
bitter and isolated after he was cast 
from utopia. He is a sharp contrast 
to the cheerful, determined and 
optimistic boy whom we get to 
know through quaint flashbacks. 
He teams up with Casey to re -
turn to Tomorrowland in a whirl -
wind of explosions, secret rocket 
ships and hidden dimensions.  
The whole movie is wrapped 
in optimism and encouragement 
that is refreshing after watching your third dystopian movie fea -
turing distressed heroines. How -
ever, director Brad Bird isn’t subtle 
about it. In fact, he beats you over 
the head with his message of posi -
tivity and chokes the movie with 
cliches. It is hard to count the 
number of times Casey says, “ Any -
thing is possible” or something 
else generic and inspiring.  About 
halfway through the film, it be -
comes a bit repetitive with encour -
agements for the next generation 
when you really just want to see the 
cool technology of Tomorrowland.
Despite her gooey positivity and 
exaggerated childlike enthusiasm, 
Casey is otherwise a refreshingly 
new kind of heroine. There are no 
contrived romances or distress -
ing female stereotypes for Casey; 
instead, she uses her determina -
tion to pull Frank from his bitter isolationism. The two exchange 
quick repartee throughout the 
film as she matches wits with him. 
“Tomorrowland” fails when it 
tries to be more parable than Disney 
movie but is thoroughly enjoyable 
when it stops taking itself so seri -
ously. Despite the stunning visuals, 
the plotline is a jumble of cyborg 
battles, rocket ships and explosions 
galore peppered with frequent as -
sertions of the “dreamers will save 
the planet” cliche. Aside from that, 
the movie succeeds at catering to 
the younger generation, and with 
a little suspension of belief, to an 
older, more jaded generation too.
—   allison  kubo & Ka tie  Potts
StAFF WRITER  
& sports editorial assistant
 
All a fan can ask for is one 
great horror film per year. 
Just one! After the middling 
“It Follows, ” “Poltergeist” was your 
best shot, 2015. But like the charac -
ters in this movie, you screwed up.
Based on the 1982 horror clas -
sic of the same name, “Poltergeist” 
follows a family of five in which the 
mom is an unemployed writer, the 
dad just lost his job and they’re so 
low on cash that their credit cards 
are getting declined. How do they 
solve these problems? A new house! To make up for this logic, or lack 
thereof, the filmmakers try to char -
acterize their new house and neigh -
borhood as undesirable. But come 
on. This ain’t the projects. The build -
ing is three stories tall and located 
in what looks quite like the suburbs. 
Anyway, the family’s luck grows 
even worse when their lights start 
flickering, some clown dolls attack 
their son and a closet swallows their 
little girl. The movie is actually quite 
strong up to this point. The charac -
ters and relationships are set up well. The atmosphere is properly sinister 
and creepy. And Sam Rockwell, who 
plays the father, charmingly injects 
the film with a perfect dose of cool-
dad humor. Then it all falls apart.
“They’re here. ” The film recycles 
this iconic line from the original 
“Poltergeist” to instill dread within 
the audience. However, this time, 
one might interpret “they” as not re -
ferring to the house’s haunting spir -
its. “They” instead are a team of so-
called “academic researchers” in the 
field of paranormal activity that the 
family enlists to help them get their 
daughter back. Rather than depicting 
the terror that the family experienc -
es, the filmmakers instead decided 
to focus on three insanely incompe -
tent “ghosthunters” who contribute 
virtually nothing to the film except 
— unintentionally — characters to 
point and to laugh at. Oh, the dread.This group provides the laziest, 
hokiest explanations about what 
exactly a poltergeist is (“It’s not a 
haunting; it’s angrier and it could 
stop at any time” — what?) and 
where their daughter is (“She’s here, 
but not here” — okay, so where is 
she?). Pulling two circle-drawings 
apart to demonstrate dual exis -
tence didn’t help either. They then 
proceed to fail miserably at every -
thing that the family recruited them 
to do. Thankfully, the family later 
brings in an actual poltergeist ex -
pert (Jared Harris), who happens 
to have his own television show 
about paranormal occurrences. 
How ironic is it that the only one 
who actually knows what he’s doing 
is the television-ghosthunter-star?
Besides this, the film’s natural -
istic comedy that made the begin -
ning so balanced and enjoyable descends into childlike farce. Direc -
tor Gil Kenan fails to differentiate 
the humor of “Poltergeist” from his 
previous feature “Monster House, ” 
an animated PG horror-comedy.
Ultimately, “Poltergeist” is irri -
tating, which seems to be the quint -
essential feature of contemporary 
horror films. It doesn’t make sense 
and it possesses annoying characters 
that it neither needs nor benefits 
from. And as a remake, it lacks the 
elements necessary to significantly 
differentiate it from the original. 
Y es, visually, it’s updated. But the 
improvements start and end there. 
For those wondering if “Polter -
geist” is at least scary — using the 
film’s exposition techniques — it is, 
but it isn’t. Y ou see how that works?
—    jacky to
News editorial assistantFILM   REVIEW
FILM   REVIEWDirected by  Brad Bird
Starring   George Clooney, Hugh Laurie, Britt Robertson, Raffey Cassidy
Rated PG
Release Date April 3When it isn’t taking itself too seriously, Tomorrowland 
boasts vivid graphics and imaginative storytelling.
Directed by  Gil Kenan
Starring   Sam Rockwell, Rosemarie DeWitt, Jared Harris, Jane Adams
Rated PG-13
Release Date May 22Conventional and irritating, “Poltergeist” is a horror 
remake as unwelcome as its paranormal invaders. tomorrowland
pol tergeistPHOTO USED WITH PERMISSION FROM WALT DISNEY STUDIOS
PHOTO USED WITH PERMISSION FROM TWENTIETH CENTURY FOX8     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 28, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
5–8 PM • RIMAC FIELD
A/l_l Campu/s.end
 Graduation Celebration
SAVE THE DATE
THE HAPPIEST HOUR
FRIDAY, JUNE 12
MORE INFO COMING SOON AT SENIORS.UCSD.EDUThe  Bright  Side
by  lenkast arfire
by  Jaga jazzist
Release Date June 16 Release Date June 16
Australian singer-songwriter brings twee 
optimism back to the indie scene. The nu-jazz group makes its most experimental 
and electronic album yet, with some success.ALBUM  REVIEW ALBUM  REVIEW
 SUMMER CONCERT
PREVIEW
You’ve “made it” if your song is 
in a critical scene in an Oscar-
nominated movie starring Brad 
Pitt. That seemed to be the case for 
the sweet-voiced songstress hailing 
from Down Under when her hit “The 
Show” was in the widely acclaimed 
film “Moneyball. ” But it seems that 
since her self-titled debut attracted 
wider attention, Lenka has been “just 
a little bit caught in the middle” of 
the pop scene, and her later, more 
modest efforts have reached the ears 
of only a devoted indie following.
But Lenka is far from being a 
one-hit wonder, as she brings us po -
etic messages wrapped up in sugar-
coated ditties one could only call 
adorable. Her latest album, the aptly 
named “The Bright Side, ” is certainly 
no exception. A majority of “Side” is 
almost exhaustingly enthusiastic with 
gleeful, catchy melodies of ukuleles 
that make Ingrid Michaelson dour in 
comparison. That’s not to say they’re 
not without their charm — instead, 
“Side” soars when Lenka’s breathy 
vocals offer reaffirmation in “Free”: 
“Say goodbye to yesterday/ Let go 
of every way/ … / All I see is the 
open road in front of me. ” It’s never 
nauseatingly saccharine, as there’s a 
strong sense of sincerity in what Lenka 
preaches (or, rather, sings). One can 
visualize the musician pushing rose-
colored glasses up the bridge of her 
nose, and we listeners can do nothing 
else but scramble to search for our own pair.
Unlike her past works, however, 
“Side” occasionally plays out as a 
sampling of the various sounds from 
folk to electropop that Lenka has 
experimented with in the past. For 
example, the xylophone-and-ukule -
le-infused “Get Together” is imme -
diately followed by the synth-heavy 
“Go Deeper”; as a result, the songs 
don’t transition quite smoothly. 
Lenka’s forays into electronica are as 
solid as her folk work, building off 
her roots in the rock band Decoder 
Ring. Rather, it’s a matter of orga -
nization that can make the different 
flavors of her genre-crossing a       
bit jarring.
Still, we never lose that sense 
that the entire album sees the world 
as a glass that’s half-full, and for 
that reason, it’s just plain fun to 
listen to repeatedly. Y es, Lenka’s pop 
sensibilities may sound intended 
for use in mass media (which would 
explain why “The Show” worked 
so well in “Moneyball”), but really, 
who’s ever been ashamed to listen to 
something that was probably used 
as a cheery commercial jingle? Just 
take a leaf from Lenka’s happy-go-
lucky philosophy in “Unique”: “I 
like to move around to a different 
beat, / … /I don’t really mind what 
you all think. ”
—      jacqueline Kim
 A&E EditorIt’s no easy feat to be able to create 
songs that are catchy and fun yet 
effortlessly complex. Somehow 
Jaga Jazzist has been able to do so 
for 20 years now, with the 8-person 
strong Norwegian outfit playing a 
potent blend of progressive rock, jazz 
and electronic music that is often de -
scribed as “nu-jazz” or “future jazz. ” 
Their latest release “Starfire” comes 
out of lead songwriter Lars Horntveth’s 
move to Los Angeles. If their previ -
ous record, “One-Armed Bandit, ” 
moved the band into a more rock-
oriented direction, this latest release 
swings them into heavy electronic 
territory, applying their atmospheric 
sound to explore the urban cityscape 
of Los Angeles.
Consequently, it’s fair to say that 
this is unabashedly a concept album, 
containing only five songs, each with 
an average runtime of around 10 
minutes. However, this attempt to 
explore a more unified sound results 
in “Starfire” abandoning the catchi -
ness that made their 2002 release “ A 
Livingroom Hush” the BBC album of 
the year.
This should not be a concern 
for attentive listeners, though, as 
“Starfire” more than makes up for 
it with thoughtful and cascading 
developments of sound throughout 
each track. The track “Big City Music” 
is an indication of what this album 
is capable of, starting with zapping 
electronic keyboards over steady and rapid percussion. It quickly fades away 
to the cold resonance of strumming 
guitars, and from there builds up 
again with layers of percussion and 
electronics. Haunting Koto-esque 
sweeps accentuate the song as it finds 
its refrain and lends power to the 
urban theme of this album, melding 
touches and influences of various 
cultural artifacts together.
The heavy use of electronic 
instruments can, at times, simply 
become overbearing, though, with an 
exuberance of odd crackling noises or 
a full-on attack of electronic sounds 
subtracting from the album’s overall 
atmosphere. The title track especially 
suffers from this problem. It starts 
off with an excellent use of the cold 
and sweeping jazzy wind instruments 
Jaga Jazzist favors. But about halfway 
through, the accompaniment gets 
completely drowned out in an abrasive 
synth line, with the flutes barely able 
to squeeze through the cracks of heavy 
electronic bombardment.
For a band that so effortlessly 
experiments, it should not be taken 
lightly that this is their most explor -
atory album yet. At times, it doesn’t 
quite hold up to its potential, often 
indulging in electronic excess. But 
for every misstep, it contains several 
interesting ideas that should hold 
fans enraptured.
—      Dieter  Joubert
Senior staff writerTaylor Swift
When: Aug. 29, 7 p.m.
Where: Petco Park
Courtney Barnett
When: Aug. 7, 12 a.m.
Where: The Casbah
Andrew Bird 
When: Aug. 11, 8 p.m.
Where: Spreckels Theatre
The Kooks
When: Jun 9, 7 p.m.
Where: House of Blues
Elvis Depressedly, Mitski, & 
Eskimeaux
When: July 3, 7:30 p.m.
Where: Legend Records
Charli XCX & Bleachers
When: July 21, 6 p.m.
Where: Observatory North 
Park
Cherry Glazerr, No Parents, 
& Buttertones
When: July 11, 7 p.m.
Where: The Irenic
Surfer Blood
When: June 20, 7 p.m.
Where: The Irenic
Scott Bradlee’s Postmodern 
Jukebox
When: June 22, 8 p.m.
Where: Belly Up TavernWEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 28, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
SAFE
DRIVERS
NEEDED
(858)822-5098Get the perfect part-time job:
• $13.35/hour 
• On campus • Flexible schedule• Paid training • UCSD students only• Hiring now for summer training
 Details at shuttledrivers.ucsd.edu
Returned Peace Corps Volunteer Diana Gomez will
discuss how to strengthen your resume and select an  
assignment that fits your skills. You will also learn  
valuable tips to guide you through the application process.Launch Your Career  
With the Peace Corp s
Application Workshop  
University of California - San Diego
Thursday, May 21
11 a.m. to 1 p.m.
Career Services Center
Round Room 
 
855.855.1961 | www.peacecorps.govLife is calling. How far will you go?
1 Month FREE!
Ask for details! Offer valid at Mira Mesa, Kearny Mesa & Fashion Valley locations only.  
On select units while supplies last. Cannot be combined with other discounts or offers. Expires 6/30/1 5.
Quick & Easy – Rent Your Space Today!3 FREE Boxes!Fashion Valley
1501 Frazee Road 
619-633-3061
Ofﬁce Hours: 9-6 M-F, 9-5 S-S  
Access Hours: 7am-8pm, dailyMira Mesa 
9701 Camino Ruiz 
858-790-8755
Ofﬁce Hours: 9-6 M-F, 9-5 S-S  
Access Hours:  6am-10pm, dailyKearny Mesa
5654 Copley Drive 
858-939-9909
Ofﬁce Hours: 9-6 Mon-Tue,  
9-6 Thur-Fri, 9-5 Sat  
Access Hours: 6am-10pm, daily
a1storage.com /ucsd
Check-in with Yelp and get 3 FREE small boxes at A-1 Self Storage Mira Mesa, 
Kearny Mesa or Fashion Valley locations. No purchase or rental necessary. 
Bella Vista Caffe — Italian 
for “Beautiful View Cafe” —     
certainly lives up to its name.
 A few minutes from the cliff 
overlooking Black’s Beach, the second-
story restaurant provides an idyllic 
view of the San Diego seascape.
Of course, one usually visits an 
eatery to eat — and food is something 
that Bella Vista Caffe understands well 
enough. Bella Vista serves a broad ar -
ray of Italian dishes with a little French 
mixed in. The brunch menu includes 
bagels, omelettes, quiches and pastas. 
Later in the day, Bella Vista serves a far 
wider selection. Appetizers range from 
the classic caprese salad to “El Cevi -
che, ” an exotic combination of shrimp, 
tomato, cucumber, onion, cilantro and 
lime juice. The full scope of Italian 
food is represented in the entrees: salads, pastas, meats and seafood. 
Between salads, pastas and omelettes, 
vegetarians have a number of options 
too. Of course, no Italian restaurant 
is complete without a tiramisu — the 
dessert menu is full of familiar Italian 
sweets. Visitors can expect to pay 
around $10 for breakfast and lunch 
and between $10 and $18 for dinner.
The Quiche Lorraine ($8.25) is a 
hearty slice of eggs, onions and ham, 
baked in a crust. The buttery, flaky 
crust complimented the zesty mixture 
of pancetta and onion. The Farmer’s 
Omelette ($6.95), while pleasing, did 
not manage to elevate itself from a 
standard mixture of Swiss, mush -
room, spinach and tomato. A side of 
salad and a few slices of fresh fruit 
accompanied the dishes, and a creamy 
vinaigrette was also served on the side. The portions were substantial but not 
overbearing. The tiramisu was a delec -
table conclusion to the meal. 
Midway between UCSD and 
the cliffs, Bella Vista Caffe is a fairly 
convenient stroll from the Village. 
Most of the seating lies on the patio 
outside, but tables exist indoors in case 
of inclement weather. It’s a nice place 
to sit and chat; the open air allows for 
easy conversation.
All in all, Bella Vista Caffe offers 
delicious fare for cautious and intrepid 
eaters alike. The moderately priced 
food might preclude frequent visits, 
but it’s worth visiting on occasion. 
And of course, the view is beautiful.
—    adam   fisher 
staff WRITEr
HOURS: Mon.: 7:30 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Tue. to Fri.: 7:30 a.m. to 9 p.m.
Sat. to Sun.: 8 a.m. to 3 p.m.LOCATION:
2880 Torrey Pines Scenic Dr.
La Jolla, CA 92037
REST AURANT   REVIEWPHOTO BY JONATHON GAO  /  GUARDIAN
$$10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 28, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
CLASSIFIEDS$
Guar dian Classi/f_ieds ar e FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifieds
BIKES
50cm CURTLO CYCLES Road Bike - $1250. 
Great custom made curtlo cycles road bike. 
Comes with full dura ace sixteen speeds 
group. New Michelin road tires. New Fizik 
saddle. Nice ride. Custom paint job.  Listing 
ID: 151866482 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
2013 MASI EVOLUZIONE BIKE 53cm - $1500. 
Team Kenda/Masi frame. Shimano (f)R500 
wheels. Sram Apex group. RITCHEY Stem 
and Handlebar. RITCHEY Carbon Seatpost 
and Sea. Approximately 700 miles on frame. 
In terrific shape. Listing ID: 151866481 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
informationNorthrock Mountain Bike XC6 - $290. Less 
than 10 miles on this mountain bike. It is 
in superb condition. XC6 - 26” tires - 19.5” 
frame. Cash only. Costco used to sell them 
for $349. Listing ID: 151866480 at ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tion
ELECTRONICS
Vanguard Tripod - $15. This is not a full-size 
but bigger than a table top tripod. Folded 
length: 11.75 in. Height range: 11.75-20.5 
in. Listing ID: 151866533 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
Huge Photo Backdrop/Background - $185. 
Photo backdrop. Huge. 19’ x 53’ . Muslim 
with ties. Large enough to photograph 
cars! Mottled gray. Some “grunge” areas. 
Listing ID: 151866529 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Steadicam Merlin 2 DSLR Camera 
Camcorder Stabilizing System Stabilizer 
- $400. Only used once at home trying 
out. It’s in brand new condition. Listing ID: 
151866527 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
AUTO
Blue 87 Fiero Trunk Lid - $87. Believe it will 
fit all GT Fiero GTS. Listing ID: 153009865 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information2003 Toyota Sequoia Limited 4D Sport 
Utility - $11000. Air conditioning, automatic 
temperature control, rear air conditioning, 
rear window defroster, power driver seat, 
power steering, power windows, remote 
keyless entry, speed-sensing steering, 
traction control, 4-wheel disc brakes, ABS 
brakes, dual front impact airbags. Listing ID: 
152983086 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
2005 Lexus LS 430 4D Sedan - $17700. 
Navigation system, ETR AM/FM stereo w/6-
disc in-dash CD changer, Mark Levinson 
audio, radio data system, air condition -
ing, automatic temperature control, front 
dual zone A/C, rear window defroster, head 
restraints memory, memory seat, power 
driver seat, power steering, power win -
dows, remote keyless entry. Listing ID: 
152983071 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
.com/ucsdguardian
asgraphicstudioApply to
asgraphicstudio@ucsd.edu
*include resume & design samples/ portfolio
graphic
artistswantedgraphic
artistswantedComplete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies 
on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.ukLevel: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
Level:
12
34Level:
12
34Level: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
SUDOKU
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972INTERNSHIPS
www.icnglobal.netSummer internships available in 
London, Berlin, Prague, Madrid, 
Istanbul, Seoul, Shanghai. 
6 month paid internships in 
Australia. Unpaid internships in 
Manhattan, New York.
Contact Roar at 212-268-0685 
roar@icncareer.com
t
your visi on,
our missi on.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom a pparel to 
promote your student 
organiza tion with Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 28, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
One Dixie cup holds 
twice the volume of a standard shot glass. 
=
3oz.1.5oz. 1.5oz.
This always happens 
when they drink. I never know if it’s bad enough to call for help.“
”
Join this conversation at      staywithmeucsdAGREE OR DISAGREE? 
Signs of Alcohol Poisoning
Responsive, 
but listless and sleepyPut them on their side, give water and stay 
with them
Passed out,
but can be woken up 
Not responsive OR 
skin tone is bluish OR breathing is irregular 
(any of these)Put them on their side, 
give water and stay with them−
Call 911 or 
(858) 534-HELP (4357)
Take action!if anything changes,make the call!
Source: http://bit.ly/MedEd_GoodSamaritanIt’s okay to call.
CALL 
911if someone is unresponsive OR 
can’t walk on their own OR is acting dramatically different· If someone looks like they’re in 
trouble, check if they’re okay
· California's Good Samaritan law 
protects witnesses who report  
life-threatening events· 
staywithme.ucsd.edu     staywithmeucsdLEARN MOREstaywithme.ucsd.edu      staywithmeucsd
     staywithmeucsdFresh out of Buchanan High 
School in Fresno, California, track 
and fielder Matt Bowen has already 
made a huge impact on the team. 
Excelling in the triple jump, Bowen 
earned several accolades for his 
performance this season. In one 
of his first meets of the season, 
he jumped nearly 50 feet, placing 
him on UCSD’s all-time record list. 
Furthermore, the consistency in his 
jumps allowed him to dominate 
the competition throughout the 
season. He would go on to win the 
event at the CCAA Championships, 
contributing to the Triton men’s 
incredible first-place finish, as well as 
to qualify for the Division-II NCAA 
championship meet. At the NCAA meet, he broke his own second-
place school record with a jump of 
50-5 1/4, which also earned him 
All-American status, an astounding 
feat for a freshman. Bowen was also 
the unanimous recipient of the 2015 
CCAA Freshman of the Y ear award 
and also earned honors from the 
U.S. Track and Field Cross Country 
Coaches Association for his record-
setting ways. Bowen will no doubt 
be a crucial component to UCSD’s 
track and field team for the next few 
seasons.BREAKOUT STAR
HONORABLE MENTIONS:
STEPHANIE SIN
DAVID HADLER 
KENDALL BAKERMATT BOWEN // TRACK & FIELD TRIPLE JUMPA transfer from San Francisco 
State University, junior forward Farrah 
Shokoor took the league by storm in 
her third season of CCAA play, earning 
First Team All-CCAA recognition 
and the Daktronics Division-II All-
West Region Second Team. In her 
first year playing with the Tritons, she 
led the team in scoring average (13.1 
per game), rebound average (12.5 per 
game), blocks, steals and free-throw 
attempts. In a team that graduated 
six seniors this year, Shokoor was the 
one to lead the charge in many games, 
bringing UCSD to a 16–6 record in 
CCAA play, good for fourth in the 
conference. Shokoor had 15 double-
doubles this year and had several very 
impressive stat-lines, like her 20 points, 
16 rebounds and four blocks game 
to down No. 15 Humboldt State. She anchored UCSD’s offense and defense 
through a tough schedule and to a very 
successful regular season. With three 
starters graduating, Shokoor’s role will 
only get bigger next year as she tries 
to lead UCSD to yet another CCAA 
tournament berth.FARRAH SHOKOOR // W. BASKETBALL
HONORABLE MENTIONS:
LAUREL KISTLER
KYRA SCOTT
JACK LARSENW. WATER POLO
W. TENNIS
BASEBALL
FRESHMAN ATHLETE OF THE YEAR
After redshirting the 2013 season, 
Stiling returned to the pool and capped 
off an impressive collegiate campaign 
with a slew of strong performances 
and conference accolades. The 6-foot-
4-inch Oregon native concluded the 
postseason with 16 goals, six assists, 
eight steals and four ejections drawn, 
and ended his career with a team-high 
72 goals, 13 hat tricks, 48 steals and 
188 all-time goals — the eighth-best in 
UCSD history. He tied a season-high 
six goals and recorded one steal and 
one ejection drawn in the NCAA play-
in game against Brown University 
and ended his final game against 
Stanford in the NCAA Championship 
with four of the Tritons’ 11 goals and one steal. Stiling was awarded 
Association of Collegiate Water Polo 
Coaches Division-II Player of the Y ear, 
Division-II All-America First Team, 
Division-I All-America Second Team, 
NCAA All-Tournament Second Team, 
WWPA Player of the Y ear, WWPA 
All-Tournament First Team and All-
WWPA First Team, among numerous 
other honors. Though his time as a 
Triton has ended, Stiling has left an 
incredible legacy in the pool and is 
undoubtedly among the UCSD greats.
HONORABLE MENTIONS:
CASSIE CALLAHAN
MIRANDA SETO 
NASH HOWEW. SOCCER
W. BASKETBALL
TRACK & FIELDPHOTO BY MEGAN LEE/ GUARDIAN
SWIM
FENCING
SOFTBALLSENIOR OF THE YEARAfter narrowly losing 67–64 
to then-No. 25 Humboldt State 
at home on Jan. 24, our women’s 
basketball team went on the road on 
the regular season’s last weekend and 
faced Humboldt State again on Feb. 
26. UCSD put on a clinic, defeating 
No. 15 Humboldt State 78–63 in 
one of the biggest upsets of the year. 
The win itself was impressive, but 
the manner in which it was done confirmed UCSD as a California 
Collegiate Athletic Association title 
contender. Coming in on a five-
game win streak, the Tritons took a 
two-point lead into halftime, 34–32. 
In the second period, UCSD’s defense 
clamped down on the Lumberjacks, 
and the Tritons pushed the ball on 
offense to open a 10-point lead. 
They then stood strong on the free-
throw line to seal the game. UCSD thrashed Humboldt on the board and 
limited them to less than 35-percent 
shooting. Junior forward Farrah 
Shokoor led the Tritons (20 points, 
16 rebounds and four blocks) to their 
most impressive win of the year.GAME OF THE YEAR
WOMEN’S BASKETBALL (UCSD VS. HUMBOLDT STATE UNIVERSITY 78–63)  
WOMEN’S SOCCER AGAINST AZUSA PACIFIC 
UNIVERSITY, 2–1 2OT 
MEN’S WATER POLO AGAINST UC IRVINE, 10–9
MEN’S BASKETBALL AGAINST CHICO STATE, 69–53HONORABLE MENTIONS:
JOSH STILING // WATER POLOPHOTO USED WITH PERMISSION FROM UCSD ATHLETICS PHOTO USED WITH PERMISSION FROM UCSD ATHLETICS
PHOTO USED WITH PERMISSION FROM UCSD ATHLETICSSPORTSMARCUS THUILLIER
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
 12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JUNE 2, 2014 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
OUTSTANDING TEAM MALE ATHLETE OF THE YEAR
FEMALE ATHLETE OF THE YEARUCSD’s men’s water polo has been the Western Water 
Polo Association’s team to beat year after year now, and 
the 2014 season was no different. After besting Loyola 
Marymount University in the conference finals (12–6) and 
snagging its 17th WWPA title, the team advanced to the 
NCAA Championship for the 13th time to face off against 
the top Division-I programs in the nation. The Tritons 
earned a fourth-place finish and a No. 6 national ranking 
after dropping a 20–11 loss in the third-place game against 
opponent Stanford University, ending the season with a 
16–11 overall record and a flawless 6–0 conference mark. 
Six athletes landed on the WWPA All-Conference list, eight on the conference All-Academic team and three on 
the ACWPC Division-II All-America Team. Although the 
Tritons will be graduating several seniors this year, they 
have a promising group of returners looking to build upon 
UCSD’s tradition of excellence next season — this team has 
established itself among the best that Division-I water polo 
has to offer and will be a team to watch for years to come. 
HONORABLE MENTIONS:
BASEBALL
MEN’S AND WOMEN’S FENCING
MEN’S BASKETBALL
COACH OF THE YEARBEST CHAMPIONSHIP PERFORMANCE
Women’s water polo goalie 
Courtney Miller, a junior hailing 
from Honolulu, Hawaii, made 
the Tritons an exciting team to 
watch on the national level as she 
helped lead UCSD to the NCAA 
Championships this past season. 
With Miller being at the heart of 
crucial plays, the Tritons placed 
eighth in the Championships. In 
their opening round game, Miller 
had 15 stunning stops in the cage 
against No. 1 UCLA. In the WWPA 
Championship match, Miller, who 
was also honored with WWPA All-
Tournament First Team, held Cal 
State East Bay to eight goals while 
blocking seven shots and launched 
the counter-attacks which eventually 
led the Tritons to the WWPA title. 
Prior to winning the title, Miller was 
also awarded WWPA Player of the Y ear. This season, Miller finished 
with 402 stops, which set a single-
season record for UCSD, and she 
also managed to break UCSD’s all-
time saves record and now currently 
holds the top spot with 1,131 career 
stops. With another year left at 
UCSD, there is great anticipation 
for what Miller will be able to 
accomplish. 
Junior right-handed pitcher 
Justin Donatella, a hopeful for this 
year’s Major League Baseball draft, 
put up one of the best single season 
performances ever for a Triton pitcher. 
A consensus All-American, Donatella 
led his team within one game of the 
NCAA Championships in Cary, North 
Carolina.The junior already possesses 
a flurry of awards for this season, 
including the National Collegiate 
Baseball Writers Association National 
Pitcher of the Y ear and the consensus 
West Region Pitcher of the Y ear. 
Donatella holds a 9–3 record in 14 
starts. He had a school record 1.74 
ERA, league-best 111 strikeouts and 
.186 opposing batting average, while 
walking only 17 in his 88 innings 
pitched. His ERA was below 1.00 for 
most of the season, with a season 
low 0.28 in March, which would place 
him first amongst Division-II pitchers (Miles Sheehan from Franklin Pierce 
University ended the year with a 0.29 
ERA). His 31.2 consecutive shutout 
innings to open CCAA play led the 
baseball team to a fantastic season.THE BEST OF
TRITON ATHLETICS
2014–15  Guardian  Honors  
HONORABLE MENTIONS:
CAITLIN BRENTON
JOLENE GUILIANA
ALEXIS EDWARDSVOLLEYBALL
WATER POLO
SOFTBALLMEN’S WATER POLO
MEN’S TRACK AT THE CALIFORNIA COLLEGIATE ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION CHAMPIONSHIP
The UCSD men’s track and field team 
ended Chico State’s 11-year first-place win 
streak at this year’s CCAA Championships 
held at San Francisco State’s Cox Stadium. 
After bouncing between first and second 
place over the three-day meet, the Triton 
men trailed Chico State 212–204 with 
one event left. In the pole vault, fifth-year 
Clint Rosser, sophomore Dan Golubovic 
and junior Tim Schmidt earned 12 points 
for the Tritons, putting them in first place 
and ultimately giving the Tritons their 
first-place finish. Several podium finishes 
by the Tritons — including a first-place 
finish by three-time CCAA champion in 
the javelin senior Nash Howe, first- and 
third-place finishes in the triple jump by 
freshman Matt Bowen and sophomore 
Derek Van de Streek and first- and 
second-place finishes in the 400 by senior 
Connor Macky and sophomore Jared 
Senese — solidified UCSD’s well-deserved 
win. With many returners, the Tritons will 
be sure to put up a good fight next season.
HONORABLE MENTIONS:
MEN’S AND WOMEN’S SWIM & DIVE AT THE PACIFIC COLLEGIATE 
SWIM AND DIVE CONFERENCE CHAMPIONSHIP
BASEBALL AT NCAA WEST REGIONAL
MEN’S AND WOMEN’S FENCING AT NCAA WEST REGIONALDENNY HARPER // MEN’S WATER POLO
With the considerable success he 
and his team have had this season, 
Denny Harper is undoubtedly one of 
the most notable coaches at UCSD. 
Harper led the Tritons to a 16–11 
overall record this season, finishing 
with a perfect 6–0 conference 
mark and earning his 17th WWPA 
Championship title and a fourth-place 
finish at the NCAA Championship. 
In his 35 years in charge, Harper 
has amassed 601 wins, earning his 
milestone 600th win at this season’s 
WWPA Championship. This season 
also marks Harper’s 18th WWPA 
Coach of the Y ear and eighth NCAA 
Division-II Coach of the Y ear titles. 
Since taking the lead, Harper has held 
UCSD at the top of the WWPA — in 
28 seasons, the Tritons have earned 
17 conference titles and 11 runner-up awards. Harper and his team are ones 
to watch in upcoming seasons and will 
surely be a force to be reckoned with at 
the conference and national levels for 
years to come.
HONORABLE MENTIONS:
ERIC NEWMAN                     BASEBALL 
ERIC OLEN           MEN’S BASKETBALL 
PATTI GERCKENS                 SOFTBALLPHOTO BY YASMEEN ELSAWAF/ GUARDIAN // ARTICLE COMPILED BY GUARDIAN STAFF
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE/ GUARDIAN
PHOTO USED WITH PERMISSION FROM UCSD ATHLETICS
JUSTIN DONATELLA  // BASEBALL
COURTNEY MILLER //
W. WATER POLOHONORABLE MENTIONS:
ADAM KLIE
AXEL BOUILLIN
RAJEEV HEREKAR
BRANDON BAUMANBASKETBALL
TENNIS
TENNIS
SOCCERPHOTO USED WITH PERMISSION FROM UCSD ATHLETICS
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE/ GUARDIAN
PHOTO USED WITH PERMISSION FROM UCSD ATHLETICS
PHOTO BY HAOCHENG TANG/ GUARDIAN