VOLUME 48, ISSUE 60  THURSDAY , JUNE 4, 2015 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
AROUND CAMPUS
CALIFORNIA
Senate Approves Health Care 
for Undocumented Residents
The California Senate passed a proposal 
to expand health care to people living in 
California without legal immigration status 
on June 2. The proposal is the first of its kind within 
the nation. 
Senator Ricardo Lara (D-Bell Gardens) created 
the bill, titled Senate Bill 4, which passed through the 
Senate with a 28 to 11 vote.
The bill proposes allowing undocumented 
immigrants to purchase health insurance on the state 
exchange under the United States Affordable Care Act, 
following the state’s receiving of a federal waiver. The 
bill also allows California residents under 18 who lack 
legal immigration status to access full health coverage 
under the state’s Medi-Cal program. 
The measure does not provide a state subsidy 
for undocumented immigrants, as it does for U.S. 
citizens and legal residents who qualify based on their 
income. However, it does make it so that unauthorized immigrants 19 and older who cannot afford health 
insurance can sign up for a program that would 
eventually guarantee them full coverage. 
“We are talking about our friends, we are talking 
about our neighbors and our families who are denied 
basic healthcare in the richest state of this union, ” Lara 
said during the Senate meeting. 
An earlier draft of the bill proposed allowing all 
undocumented immigrants living in California to qualify 
for Medi-Cal, but Gov. Jerry Brown suggested that the bill 
would be too expensive. The exact cost of the amended 
bill is still unknown, but according to Lara’s spokesman 
Jesse Melgar, they are examining the costs.
The bill will now be sent to the Assembly Rules 
Committee for approval. The committee is expected 
to vote on the issue before the end of the state’s 
legislative session in August. If the bill is passed, 
it will be sent to the various Assembly health and 
appropriations committees.   B y  BR YNNA BOL T    SENIOR STAFF WRITER Study Shows 
Impact of  
Alcohol on 
Teen BrainsSCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY
After observing a group of 
adolescents over several years, 
researchers found that drinking 
can affect brain development.
B Y  Omkar mahajan
Staff writer
UCSD researchers recently 
conducted a study analyzing 
how alcohol affects the teenage 
brain, including its impact on test 
performance. Their findings were 
published in the Journal of Studies on 
Alcohol and Drugs.
Lead author, Professor Susan 
Tapert, told the UCSD Guardian that 
unlike previous research on this topic, 
this study observed a bigger pool of 
subjects for a longer period of time. 
“This study was a little bit larger 
than previous studies since it started 
out with 130 adolescents before they 
had tried any alcohol and followed 
them over several years, ” Tapert said.
Over time, some of those 
adolescents started to experiment 
with alcohol, and some even became        
heavy drinkers.
Tapert also mentioned that the 
teenage brain is still developing 
and that alcohol can affect the             
development process.
“ Adolescent brains are still 
developing even into their early 20s, 
and alcohol can harm how the brain 
develops, ” Tapert said.
Tapert further elaborated about 
the maturational developments of 
the teenage brain in an interview              
with NPR.
“First of all, the adolescent brain is 
still undergoing several maturational 
processes that render it more 
vulnerable to some of the effects of 
substances, ” Tapert said.
The team did not find any gender 
differences in terms of brain structure 
from the results. However, Tapert 
did note that there were several 
gender differences in terms of how 
alcohol affected boys and girls when 
performing tests.
“Girls went downhill on visual 
spatial tests, whereas boys went 
downhill on attentive abilities, ”            
Tapert said.
Tapert further specified how 
alcohol affected girls in an interview 
with NPR.
“For girls who had been engaging 
See ALCOHOL , page 3Br ynna Bol t   bbolt@ucsd.edu readers can contact
The United States Water Polo team competed against the Serbian men’s national team at Canyonview Pool earlier this week.
Photo by Megan Lee / UCSD Guardian.HOW UCSD 
GETS DOWN
WHAT IS UCSD’S ATTITUDE 
ABOUT PORN? A SURVEY 
OF OVER 500 STUDENTS 
REVEALS  PREFERENCES AND 
THOUGHTS ON THE CULTURAL 
IMPLICATIONS OF WIDESPREAD  
CONSUMPTION.
OUR  FOND  F AREWELL
JUSTIN  DONA TELLA  2015  Senior  sendoffs
a  slow  rise  to  st ardomOPINION,  P age   4
sPORTS,  P age  12
THURSDAY
H 71 L 60FRIDAY
H 72 L 60
SATURDAY
H 73 L 60SUNDAY
H 73 L 60
FORECASTWEEKEND,  P AGE  8
ILLUSTRATION BY ELYSE YANG
VERBATIM
ANDREW 
AND TAYLOR, 
IT’S BEEN AN 
HONOR TO 
WATCH YOUR 
EVOLUTION
FROM SWEET RAYS OF 
POSITIVITY INTO THE SNARKY, 
BITTER SOULS YOU ARE NOW.” 
-Aleksandra 
Konstantinovic  
OPINION , PAGE 4“
2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JUNE 4, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG N EWS
AVERAGE CAT By Christina Carlson 
1 Month FREE!
Ask for details! Offer valid at Mira Mesa, Kearny Mesa & Fashion Valley locations only.  
On select units while supplies last. Cannot be combined with other discounts or offers. Expires 6/30/1 5.
Quick & Easy – Rent Your Space Today!3 FREE Boxes!Fashion Valley
1501 Frazee Road 
619-633-3061
Ofﬁce Hours: 9-6 M-F, 9-5 S-S  
Access Hours: 7am-8pm, dailyMira Mesa 
9701 Camino Ruiz 
858-790-8755
Ofﬁce Hours: 9-6 M-F, 9-5 S-S  
Access Hours:  6am-10pm, dailyKearny Mesa
5654 Copley Drive 
858-939-9909
Ofﬁce Hours: 9-6 Mon-Tue,  
9-6 Thur-Fri, 9-5 Sat  
Access Hours: 6am-10pm, daily
a1storage.com /ucsd
Check-in with Yelp and get 3 FREE small boxes at A-1 Self Storage Mira Mesa, 
Kearny Mesa or Fashion Valley locations. No purchase or rental necessary. 
#UCSDNEWS
#NOFILTERS @ucsdguardian#FOLLOW US
DO Y OU TWEET? WE DO!
@UCSDGuar dian
@UCSDGuardianFOLLOWUS NOW!
...yes, now!
@UCSDGuardian#OMG! Follow us on Twitter #NOW! IN BRIEFWRITTEN BY 
Jacky To // Editorial Assistant
j6to@ucsd.edu
A University of California Board of Regents committee 
nominated UC Riverside graduate student Marcela Ramirez to be 
the Board’s 2016–17 student regent. 
Ramirez currently studies higher education administration and 
policy and is the graduate student representative of the UC Office 
of the President LGBT Advisory Committee. She is also a former 
member of UC Riverside’s Undocumented Student Task Force, the 
founding director of the Middle Eastern Student Center and Dean 
of Students Office’s diversity initiatives coordinator. 
In a Tuesday press release from the UC Office of the President, 
Ramirez stated that her goals are to improve diversity and 
accessibility across the UC campuses.
“ As a member of the University of California community, it’s 
important to me to affect growth and change in a positive way, ” 
Ramirez said. “I’m here to serve. I want to hear what students’ 
concerns are. I want to build a bridge of communication between 
students, staff, faculty and the board. ”
Ramirez also explained that she is qualified for the position 
because she knows first-hand how difficult it is to be a student. 
“I understand the hardships one must overcome to stay in 
school and the trials and tribulations that come with pursuing an 
academic degree and establishing yourself, ” Ramirez said. “I’m in 
tune with student concerns and challenges across the system. ”
The regents created the student regent position following a UC 
Student Association campaign to increase student representation in the Regents. According to UCSA ’s Tuesday press release, the 
student regent typically works very closely with the student 
organization. 
UCSA President Jefferson Kuoch-Seng expressed in the press 
release his desire to collaborate with Ramirez during her term. 
“We welcome Marcela to join us in our work to advocate for 
quality, affordability and accessibility for UC students, ” Kuoch-
Seng said. “Student Regents are a crucial voice during key 
decisions on student fees, financial aid and admission, among 
other student priorities. We look forward to working closely over 
the next two years. ”
Ramirez graduated from Cal State Long Beach with a master’s 
degree in counseling with an emphasis in student development 
and higher education and received bachelor’s degrees in economics 
and French from Cal State Fullerton. She expects to complete her 
UC Riverside graduate program in June 2017.
The Regents will vote on whether or not to approve the 
committee’s nomination during its July meeting at UC San 
Francisco campus in Mission Bay. If confirmed, Ramirez will serve 
as a regent-designate for the next year and then gain full voting 
privileges in July 2016.
UC Berkeley social welfare major Sadia Saifuddin is the 
current student regent, and UCLA economics major Avi Oved, 
the current regent-designate, will assume her role on July 1 for the           
following year.UC Board of  Regents Announces Nomination of  Incoming Student Regent-Designate From UC Riverside
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGsee more atThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and 
Thursdays during the academic year by UCSD students 
and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this 
newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, 
without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2015, all 
rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible 
for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The 
views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the full staff, the University of California or 
Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. Seniors, we will miss you <3.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Editor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
  
Associate News Editor
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Social Media Coordinator
Training and Development
Page Layout
Allison Kubo
Distribution
Christopher Graves, Josef Goodyear, Vincent Pham
Copy Readers
Andrew Chao, Caroline Lee, Sage Schubert Christian, Marissa 
Barber, Heejung Lim
Editorial Assistants
Shelby Newallis, Karly Nisson, Mario Attie, Katie Potts,
 Allison Kubo, Jacky To, Brit Lu  Aleksandra Konstantinovic
Andrew E. Huang  
Taylor Sanderson
Tina Butoiu
Kriti Sarin
Cassia Pollock
Marcus Thuillier
Allison Kubo
Jacqueline Kim
Kyle Somers
Nilu Karimi
Siddharth Atre
Jonathan Gao
Joselynn Ordaz
Sherman Aline
Elyse Yang
Annie Liu
Rosina Garcia
Jennifer Grundman
Laura Chow
Vincent Phamin heavy drinking during adolescence, 
it looks like they’re performing more 
poorly on tests of spatial functioning, 
which links to mathematics, 
engineering kinds of functions, ”         
Tapert said.
Tapert’s team also discovered how 
alcohol affects the teenage male brain.
“For boys who engaged in binge 
drinking during adolescence, we 
see poor performance on tests of 
attention — so being able to focus on 
something that might be somewhat 
boring, for a sustained period of 
time, ” Tapert said to NPR. “The 
magnitude of the difference is 10 
percent. I like to think of it as the 
difference between an A and a B. ”
Although Tapert did note that they need to perform more research 
regarding how it affected the teenage 
brain, the study did find some areas 
affected by binge drinking.
“Teens who frequently drank 
performed poorly on thinking and 
memory tests, ” Tapert said. “ Areas 
of white matter and grey matter also 
decreased as well. ”
Aaron White, an assistant 
research professor of psychiatry at 
Duke University, also agreed that 
teenage drinking impairs cognitive 
function.
“There is no doubt about it 
now: There are long-term cognitive 
consequences to excessive drinking 
of alcohol in adolescence, ” White 
said in an interview with the New 
Y ork Times. “We definitely didn’t 
know five or 10 years ago that alcohol affected the teen brain 
differently. Now there’s a sense of 
urgency. It’s the same place we were 
in when everyone realized what 
a bad thing it was for pregnant 
women to drink alcohol. ”
Scott Swartzwelder, a 
neuropsychologist at the Veterans 
Affairs Medical Center in Durham, 
N.C., also explained how alcohol 
harms the teenage mind.
“Teenagers can drink far 
more than adults before they get 
sleepy enough to stop, but along 
the way they’re impairing their 
cognitive functions much more     
powerfully, ” Swartzwelder told the 
New Y ork Times.N EWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JUNE 4, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
GOOD LUCK
ON FINALS!DEAR UCSD STUDENTS,
DEAR 
EVELYN, 
ZANETA, 
SONIA, 
JENNIFER, 
MARY LOU, 
PARISA, 
BEVERLY, 
MARK,
ANNA, 
SUSANA, 
RHONDA, 
NATETHANKS
STUDENTS!FOR ALL OF YOUR
 EFFORTS THIS YEAR SUPPORTING THEFROM THE STUDENT LIFE BUSINESS OFFICE
Looking for the 
New Business 
Column?
Look for it starting Fall Quarter 
2015 at ucsdguardian.org.
ucsdguardian.orgUCSD Health System recently 
expanded its facilities to the Coachella 
Valley and Palm Springs areas in 
order to extend its influence as well 
as enhance healthcare for patients in 
the region.
UCSD settled a hospital 
management deal with El Centro 
Regional Medical System and is 
currently in talks with Eisenhower 
Medical Center in Rancho Mirage. 
While the plans are not set in stone, 
UCSD Health System CEO Paul 
Viviano foresees the revamping of 
programs in El Centro as well as an 
extension of clinical trials and an 
overall increase in ratings. 
ECRMC Interim CEO Tomas 
Virgen discussed the overall goals for 
the expansion in a recent press release and hopes the outcome is an increase 
in patient care.
“In addition to providing important 
operational and clinical support, 
our relationship with UC San Diego 
Health System will help local patients 
gain greater access to a comprehensive 
continuum of care in El Centro 
and San Diego, including an array 
of specialized medical and surgical 
services, ” Virgen said. “ Additionally, 
our employees will have direct access 
to the best practices and expertise of 
the region’s top-ranked health system. ”
Currently, the UCSD Health 
System supports Imperial Valley 
hospitals by providing specialized 
care for specific areas, including 
cardiovascular diseases, angioplasty, 
stroke consultations and more. 
These areas will soon expand to 
include support in endocrinology, 
allergy and immunology, cardiology, rheumatology and nephrology. 
According to Viviano, the health 
system plans to expand beyond the 
two deals already mentioned. Further 
expansions, however, will not include 
the university purchasing facilities, 
as the plan is strictly to supplement 
existing policies and resources with 
UCSD’s own resources and expertise.
Viviano explained that the long-
term goal is to work with external 
programs to broaden the reach of the 
health system.
“We think we can collaborate with 
Rady and Scripps and Sharp and Kaiser 
and with hospitals and doctors outside 
San Diego, cobble that together with 
our academic mission and distinguish 
ourselves, ” Viviano told the San Diego 
Union-Tribune.UCSD Brings Medical Services to New Regions
Health system officials plan to expand management programs beyond San Diego County.
B Y Raahima Shoaib
Contributing Writer        UCSD HEALTH SYSTEM  
Results Confirms Alcohol Affects Short-Term Memory, Attention Span
▶ ALCOHOL,  from page 1Raahima Shoaib Rshaoib@ucsd.edu readers can contact
Omkar Mahajan   OMAHAJAN@ucsd.edu readers can contact4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JUNE 4, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR CASSIA POLLOCKopinion@ucsdguardian.org
This is the last thing I’ll ever publish in the UCSD Guardian. Let’s let that thought sink in for 
a second. Since my freshman year, I’ve spent my Sundays and Wednesdays in this little corner 
office in Original Student Center, and after I lock the door this Wednesday night, I will be 
(happily and confidently) turning the paper over to someone else.
During my tenure as Editor in Chief, my staff has been the most dedicated, determined, 
capable, intelligent and entertaining group of people I could’ve asked for. Y our tremendous 
strength and never-ending sass are the reasons we’ve had two incredible quarters, and you 
should all be very, very proud of yourselves.
Zev, you are occasionally a pain in the ass (case in point: your sendoff). That being said, 
you were also the catalyst for my journalistic career, as well as a stellar boss, editor and friend. 
Thank you for two years’ worth of edits, for dragging me up the ladder at the Guardian and for 
being in my corner when things got tough.
Andrew and Taylor, it’s been an honor to watch your evolution from sweet rays of 
positivity into the snarky, bitter souls you are now. Y ou’ve both been incredible managers 
who simultaneously took care of the details while helping to perpetuate the shenanigans. We 
couldn’t have put out such a stellar paper without you.
To Vincent, Rosina, Tina and the Guardian staff that’s staying on board for next year: 
Treasure every second that you’re overworked, underpaid and stuck in the office until the wee 
hours of the morning. It was easy to complain about those never-ending days, but before I knew 
it, I was wrapping up three years of Sunday and Wednesday productions and wondering what 
on earth I will do with all my free time. Y ou guys have some amazing ideas for the paper and I 
can’t wait to see where you take it.
I will miss you all tremendously. Y ou’ve been my dearest friends (and practically my 
roommates) for the past three years. Best of luck, much love and stay classy, UCSD.Aleksandra Konstantinovic
Editor In Chief // Multimedia Editor // Associate News Editor
Even though most of you have graduated and won’t see this, I want to give a huge shoutout to 
UCSD’s chemical engineers. All of you are so much smarter than I could ever dream to be, and my 
love for you is real. We’ve been through too many years of GBMs, crepe fundraisers, study groups, 
conferences, Hertz, senior design all-nighters and Pacific Beach nights for me to think of you as 
anything less than family. Iza Samek, Erica Fung, Avital Slavin, Kimi Csanadi, Oliver Molina, Daniel 
Chillin and Donald De Leon: we’ve been through the good, the bad and the stress-crazy together. Adil 
Saleh, Brian Zhou and Christianna Lininger, you are the only reason I made it through senior design. 
Vincent Li, you should be a life coach because I probably would have dropped this major if you hadn’t 
been there to convince me that I have what it takes. And everyone from the class of 2014, we have a 
bond that will never break (I thought about making a chemistry joke there, but decided I’ d save 
you the eye roll).
 Another shoutout to the next generation of Chem-Es: Bao Vo Ngo, Rachel Patron, Sarah 
Diaz, Michael Cerdino, Melissa Nguyen, Michael Yuen, Giselle Bang, Jonathan Hall, Mio White, 
Darren Anthony, Kimberly Nguyen and everyone else at AIChE. It was a pleasure watching you all 
grow up from your freshmen years and achieve so much, all while making time to grow the org into a 
foundation for lifelong friendships, just like your own. I’m excited for your futures!
 I don’t know how I could possibly fully express this in print (I would probably have to use 
Wingdings), but I am so grateful that I was placed in an apartment with Joyce Kim and Jennifer Shih 
at the beginning of freshman year. I admire you both so much for always saying what I think in my 
head but don’t say out loud for fear of judgment and for not judging me when I do say those things so 
that I can learn to live fearlessly. I’m equally grateful for Ephraim Lu and Edward Nguyen, two more of 
my best friends who have seen how I’ve evolved over the years. All of you have inspired me to not only 
accept myself but to wear my colors as proudly as you do. 
 And lastly, my newest set of friends, but friends whom I hold so close to my heart 
nonetheless: the UCSD Guardian staff. Even as the oldest kid in the lot, I’ve learned so much from all 
of you. Our adventures this year have been crazy for all of us, but we stuck together and came out on 
top each time. If I had the extra space, I would shoot off a paragraph for each of you about how you’ve 
changed my life, but I’m just going to hope you know how much you mean to me and that I can’t wait 
until you guys come join the New Y ork Times with me!Teiko Yakobson
Features Editor
Please understand that I am not here with a bucket to collect my tears.
Already, I stepped down as Editor in Chief back in December and haven’t been a student at UCSD 
since the school had Porter’s Pub and a University Art Gallery.
Despite my already substantial break from the UCSD Guardian, I’m grateful for the opportunity 
to say my goodbyes in a final piece. Reaching the top post at the Guardian was a dream of mine since 
my first quarter in La Jolla, but there was no way that I could have gotten there without the help of my 
mentors and colleagues throughout my first three years at UCSD.
Even when I took on the job last March, my title and purpose would have been pointless had not 
been for the great co-stars and their countless hours put in at the office.
So now that I say farewell, I must admit to myself that I simply do not have the space on this page or 
in any entire volume of the Guardian to do justice in thanking all who deserve it.
I am so grateful to those who paved the leadership roles before me with their leadership and 
guidance. Consequently, I am also very blessed to have worked with those who followed behind me 
and picked up where I left off.
Knowing I would not have room to even mention everyone’s name, I’m taking the cheap way out 
and not attempting to mention everyone. 
Anyone whose name ever appeared in an issue on a byline, photo or art credit or as a production-
day staffer, I thank you for every moment you gave to this operation.
I will make but one personal thank you. Aleksandra Konstantinovic has been the fearless warrior 
who took over for me at a critical point in time and who really got the paper back on track. As she 
signs her name to her final paper, I am honored to have known such a wonderful student journalist, 
friend, mentee, mentor and partner. As a parting gift, I direct Ms. Konstantinovic to review the first 10 
sentences of this piece and put the first letter of each sentence together as my final message to her as EIC.
To Aleks and my former bosses, trainers, trainees, friends, co-workers, supporters, readers, 
associates, ex-girlfriends, writers, artists, photographers, editors, copy readers, designers, business 
managers, advertising representatives, social media gurus, developers, columnists and people who just 
seemed to hang around the office whom I was privileged to meet and work with through the Guardian, 
I thank you for the entire experience.SENIOR SEND OFFS
ZEV HURWITZ
Editor In Chief // Managing Editor // News Editor ILLUSTRATION BY JENNA MCCLOSKEY
ILLUSTRATION BY CHRISTINA CARLSON 
ILLUSTRATION BY ELYSE YANGOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JUNE 4, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
For more info, email Katie Hosch at runswimgal@gmail.com /  khosch@ucsd.edu or contact 805.901.1944JUNE 4 · 3-6PM
JUNE 4 · 3-6PM
SUN GOD LAWN
Bring it back to your childhood roots,
and join us in a bbq with polaroids,
carnival games, and bubbles!
Food includes hot dogs, hamburgers,
and vegetarian dishes! Bring It Back 
Bring It Back 
BBQ
BBQ
Am I really writing my very last article for the UCSD Guardian? After this, I won’t really know 
what to do with myself. It’ll be weird not having to write a review for deadlines each week.
But it’ll be even weirder not seeing my beautiful, fantastically talented, down-to-earth Guardian 
family every week. I came here in search of a community — and eureka! The gifts that you have 
given me are priceless, and I will carry your treasures with me for the rest of my life.
Everyone I have worked with has been outstanding, and I look up to each of you. But because of 
this darned word count, I can only send a shout-out to a few individuals:
Laira, Zev and Jacey: Y ou’ve all long moved on, but you have no idea how grateful I am that two 
years ago, three brilliant people put so much faith in me and welcomed me as an editor.
Allie, aka the Crispiest One: The office isn’t the same without Her Randomness! Thank you for 
being the first person to welcome me into the Guardian.
Aleks and Taylor: If I could be half as fabulous as the two of you, I would consider myself 
fortunate (and an honorary member of your time-bending family).
Kyle, aka the Walking Pandora Station: Thank you for your help, enthusiasm and creativity 
— and for always generously covering for me when I had wacky schedules and for being our 
custodian/paperboy/writer of everything!
Vincent: It wasn’t long ago we were planning Weekend or ranting about MMW , and here you 
are: EIC of the whole freakin’ paper! Y our enthusiasm and work ethic is exactly what the G’s next 
generation needs, and I have no doubt the paper will flourish during your tenure.
Tina and Karly: I could not be happier that A&E will be left to your capable hands — and this is 
coming from a total control freak.
My A&E staff: Y ou are the real heart and soul of our section. I constantly learned from your 
endless curiosity and creativity. I am so proud A&E has such talent, and you can bet I’ll still be 
reading for years to come!Taylor Sanderson
Managing Editor // Photo EditorJaCqueline Kim
Arts & Entertainment Editor
Let’s just be clear: I don’t do the words around here. As former Photo Editor, and manager 
of the visual side of the UCSD Guardian, I would much rather just put a photo here of me 
waving goodbye than spend time writing a send-off. Nevertheless, my three years here (is it 
only three years? It feels like my whole life ) merit a proper goodbye to the amazing people 
who I’ve worked with.
This weird group of misfits who sometimes, somehow spits out a newspaper has completely 
changed my college experience. Somewhere in between the absurd brackets, the office pranks 
and shenanigans I gained practical experience, confidence in myself, memories that will last 
the rest of my life and my closest friends. Without the experiences I had in this office I would 
be a different person (a better person maybe but who cares.) Maybe it was when we taped Zev’s 
belongings to the ceiling, maybe it was when we stood together against censorship or maybe it 
was when we all piled into a photobooth at once. But at some point we became friends. I want 
to thank all of you for giving me the memories that make up the best of my time at UCSD. 
To all the babies who are just now joining the Guardian, do not be afraid.  For me, it all 
began with a random flier posted on a wall in Sixth College. I had no idea what I was getting 
myself into. Working at the Guardian can be difficult, infuriating and time consuming. But it 
can also be endlessly entertaining, supportive and fun. I am so thankful for the opportunity 
to have worked here, and I will, in a weird way, miss it as I leave UCSD and go off into the        
real world. ILLUSTRATION BY IRENE LUU
ILLUSTRATION BY IRENE LUUWEEKEND
ARTS | FOOD & DRINK | MOVIES & TV | MUSIC | THINGS TO DOA&E EDITOR // JACQUELINE KIM 
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // NILU KARIMI
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Magic Mike XXLThe best male strippers this side of the Mississippi return in this sequel to Steven Soderbergh’s 2012 masterpiece. 
However, because of Soderbergh’s retirement from directing, it will instead be the familiar hand of Gregory Jacobs 
(assistant director on all Soderbergh films) pointing the camera at the impeccable stage routines and glistening 
muscles of modern Adonis, Channing Tatum.
This time around, the boys are on a road trip to a Myrtle Beach stripping convention in search of purpose and 
parties after the events of the first. The first film was a meditation on the perils of industry and greed, a timeless tale 
told under the burnt Florida sun and through the exploitative managerial tactics of southern charmer, Matthew 
McConaughey’s aptly named Dallas. 
If the trailer is a fair indication of what we can expect, then we’re in for a disturbingly dark view on American 
capitalism and a visceral experience this July. Get ready for repeated viewings, because you’ll want to come again.
Directed by  Gregory Jacobs
Starring   Channing Tatum, Matt Bomer, Joe Manganiello
Release Date July 1—      sam  velazquez    staff writer
—     Jacqueline  kim    a&e editorJust when we thought having a talking tree for a superhero couldn’t get weirder, Marvel Studios brings us yet 
another off-the-wall protagonist: a dude who shrinks. Admittedly, there are a lot of logistical issues that arise from 
this kind of setup (like, isn’t a small person at a disadvantage when taking out the big bad guys?) — but who cares 
about logic? This is a comic book movie, after all.
Y et the Marvel Cinematic Universe is a force to be reckoned with, a colossal juggernaut stronger than the Avengers’ 
strength combined. And “ Ant-Man, ” the final film of Phase Two, seems to be no exception compared to the vast 
stories already told about other (full-sized) superhumans. With Paul Rudd as the underdog protagonist Scott Lang 
and a self-awareness of having such an unconventional hero, “ Ant-Man” is guaranteed to up the comedy in the comic 
book genre. If anything, it’ll be worth it to see how a showdown involving Thomas the Tank Engine goes down.
Ant-ManDirected by  Peyton Reed
Starring   Paul Rudd, Evangeline Lilly, Corey Stoll, Bobby Cannavale
Release Date July 17
—     Tynan Y anaga    Staff writerIn a generation often bloated with unoriginal ideas, Pixar has thankfully been one of the prominent fountains of 
creative inspiration. Pete Docter has always been a master-class storyteller (“Monsters, Inc. ” and “Up”), and “Inside 
Out” finds him at perhaps his most innovative yet. Not just any animator would be audacious enough to make his or 
her latest film on the inner workings of the human psyche. The plot focuses on the personified emotions, positive and 
negative, that course through us all on a daily basis: Joy, Sadness, Fear, Anger, and most certainly Disgust. It looks 
like a veritable comedic field day for voice actors like Amy Poehler and Mindy Kaling. Pixar also persistently has an 
intuitive, almost uncanny, ability to tell stories in the most human of terms whether the subject matter happens to be 
fish, superheroes, cars or even emotions.
Inside OutDirected by  Pete Docter
Starring   Amy Poehler, Phyllis Smith, Bill Hader
Release Date June 19
—     Mario  a ttie   editorial assistantSpanish filmmaker Alejandro Amenabar has never made a bad film. Despite what clearly confused critics thought 
about his last ambitious effort (“ Agora”), Amenabar has now written and directed five brilliant motion pictures. 
This is an objective truth — a scientific fact if there ever was one. Using sports lingo, we can say that he remains 
undefeated. “Regression” promises to add another gem to his oeuvre. The film marks Amenabar’s return to his 
cinematic home: the psychological thriller. The plot follows a father (Devon Dencik) who is accused of abusing his 
daughter (Emma Watson) but has no memory of the crime. Judging by the trailer, “Regression” aims to blend the 
sheer terror of “Tesis” with the philosophical mind-fuckedness of “ Abre los Ojos” . If the product is half as good as any 
of those, we will be looking at another remarkable work by a guy who simply lacks the ability to make a bad movie.   
RegressionDirected by  Alejandro Amenabar
Starring   Ethan Hawke, Emma Watson, David Dencik
Release Date Aug. 28SUMMER MOVIE  
PREVIEW 2015
—     Naft ali    Burakovsky  
  senior staff WriterILLUSTRATION BY ELYSE YANG
ILLUSTRATION BY DAVID JUAREZILLUSTRATION BY IRENE LUU
ILLUSTRATION BY ELYSE YANGWEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JUNE 4, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
Valid at  
Round Table Pizza UCSD Price Center, La Jolla • (858) 457-2060
Dine In and Carry Out Only
WEEKLY STUDENT SPECIALSdiscover the best kept secret on campus!
Monday Madness
$2 Tuesday
Pasta Wednesday
Thursday Bundle Deal
Flatbread Friday
Weekend Special50% off Any 2nd Large or X-Large Pizza
1-Topping Pizza Slice + Drink = $2  
Add Another Slice for Just $1.25
Free Garlic Parmesan Twists with Any Pasta
Large 1-Topping Pizza and Choice of 6 Garlic Parmesan Twists , 
6 Classic Wings or 8 Boneless Wings $20.99
$1 Off Flatbread & Drink  
Plus $2 Off Select Pitchers!
$1 Off Our Everyday Low Price Lunch Specials
Directed by  Gregory Jacobs
Starring   Channing Tatum, Matt Bomer, Joe Manganiello
Release Date July 1
—     Jacqueline  kim    a&e editorForget “Reichenbach” — it’s on screen, both big and small, where Sherlock Holmes really comes back to life over and over 
again. Within the past decade alone, we’ve already seen the iconic detective reincarnated by Robert Downey Jr. in a quasi-
steampunk setting, Benedict Cumberbatch in modern London and Jonny Lee Miller as a post-rehab Holmes. So naturally, it 
was about time that we get to see everyone’s favorite sleuth … as an old man?
The inimitable Ian McKellen plays the gumshoe, 93 years old and coming to terms with the fact that his brilliant mind is 
faltering from age. Nevertheless, he is determined to find the solution to one last case as he struggles to recall his peak years, 
told in a series of flashbacks. Considering that Oscar-winner Bill Condon has brought together his frequent collaborators 
McKellen and Emmy winner Laura Linney, who plays Holmes’ housekeeper, there is no doubt that the Academy will buzz 
over the talent of this thought-provoking period drama.
Mr. HolmesDirected by  Bill Condon
Starring   Ian McKellen, Laura Linney, Colin Starkey, Hattie Morahan
Release Date July 17
—     Jacky  To    News editorial assistantIconic, controversial and “straight outta Compton, ” Niggaz Wit Attitudes is one of the most compelling acts in music history. The 
film, helmed by “Friday” director F. Gary Gray, follows the group’s members — living hip-hop legend Dr. Dre, the late Eazy-E and 
a “crazy muthafucka named Ice Cube” — and their complicated rise to fortune and fame. 
The largest concern with this project, as with any Hollywood biographical drama, is that the subject matter will get watered down 
and sanitized for the mainstream audience. However, the film’s first red band trailer made it clear that it is more concerned with 
truth than politics.
“Our art is a reflection of our reality, ” Ice Cube confidently declares to a reporter who accuses the group’s songs of glamorizing 
gangs and drugs.
As white perspectives and experiences continue to dominate mainstream Hollywood, “Straight Outta Compton” is a refreshing, 
relevant and necessary film. 
Straight Outta ComptonDirected by  F. Gary Gray 
Starring   Jason Mitchell, Corey Hawkins, O’Shea Jackson Jr.
Release Date August 14
—     Peter  Mcinnis    Contributing WriterWith colorful button-down shirts and a hi-top fade haircut, Malcolm (Shameik Moore) strives to balance academics 
and romance with survival as a “‘90s hip-hop geek” in the ghettos of Los Angeles. Writer and Director Rick 
Famuyiwa, known for “Talk To Me” and “The Wood, ” looks to bring ‘90s classic style via a nostalgic soundtrack and an 
unmistakably bright wardrobe together in a coming-of-age story. Three geeks with big dreams for college take a step in 
the opposite direction by attending a party with the wrong people and finding themselves with a backpack full of drugs. 
The young cast, including Zoe Kravitz (“Divergent”), Tony Revolori (“The Grand Budapest Hotel”) and Blake Anderson 
(“Workaholics”), brings great timing and energy that propels “Dope” to comedic success. An immediate hit at the 
Sundance Film Festival, wait for Malcolm, with his geeky ‘90s flair and determined ambition to be a summer favorite.
DopeDirected by  Rick Famuyiwa
Starring   Shameik Moore, Zoe Kravitz, Forest Whitaker
Release Date June 19
CHOCOAlmost from the beginning, “Fantastic Four” has been plagued with 
negative rumors and fan outrage over things like black actor Michael 
B. Jordan cast as Johnny Storm (oh, the horror) and the villain Dr. Doom 
(Toby Kebbell) changed into a blogger. “Fantastic Four” has been fighting 
an uphill battle, but after the first trailer hit, all the naysayers shut up. After 
surprising audiences with his 2012 
debut film “Chronicle, ” “Fantastic 
Four” is director Josh Trank’s 
massive follow-up that looks and 
feels like a horror movie, a new take 
that Marvel comic fans should be 
excited about. Filled with young, 
talented actors, including Miles 
Teller and Kate Mara, and a ton of 
spectacular effects, Trank’s darker 
and grittier version of this superhero 
story will have no problem 
separating itself from the silly and 
cartoonish 2005 version. 
Fantastic FourDirected by  Josh Trank
Starring   Miles Teller, Kate Mara
Release Date Aug. 7—     Naft ali    Burakovsky  
  senior staff WriterILLUSTRATION BY ELYSE YANGILLUSTRATION BY ANNIE LIU
ILLUSTRATION BY ELYSE YANG
ILLUSTRATION BY CHRISTINA CARLSON
ILLUSTRATION BY ELYSE YANG78     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JUNE 4, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
ACGC 2015:
The Ha/p_pieﬆ Hou/r.end
FRIDAY , JUNE 12
5:00-8:00PM • RIMAC FIELD
DANIEL ZUKER
With Gueﬆ Speake/r.end
Executive Producer of  ABC’s Modern Family
for more information, visit seniors.ucsd.eduAs active college students, we watch and criticize     
movies, listen to music digitally, rave at live music 
shows, read books on top of the tons of readings we are 
assigned at school and learn to appreciate art by going to gal -
leries (even when our administration places the only university 
art gallery “on hold”). Every once in a while — hopefully more 
often than that — we move down Maslow’s hierarchy of needs 
to fulfill more basic needs. But there is a phenomenon that is 
neither just physiological nor solely spiritual or cultural. 
Students indulge in sexual fantasies with great relish, and 
porn brings them to life. To uncover the world of porn for UCSD 
students, we conducted an online survey of 537 undergrads (319 
identifying as males and 200 as female) who attend our school. 
The survey purposely does not define “porn” for the participants, 
since today, thanks to the Internet, pornographic content comes 
in all shapes and sizes, literally and proverbially. However, the 
questions mainly focused on video pornography, as it remains 
one of the most popular forms of pornography. Now, let’s see what 
people think.
First things first: 86 percent of respondents do watch porn 
(74 percent of females, 95 percent of males), and 90 percent 
of those who took the survey agree that watching people 
have sex on camera is absolutely normal. It’s no surprise that 
Yik Y ak folks often blame XXX-video fans for ResNet’s slow    
Internet connection, while Tritonsnap captures students going on Pornhub at Geisel. However, not everyone is as 
ready to let the world know about his or her porn prefer -
ences; not everyone wants to be “that person” at the library. 
Around one-fourth of UCSD students do not feel comfort -
able talking about pornography with their friends. But, hey, 
65 percent of respondents are totally fine with sharing links 
and telling each other what they would rather witness on                                  
their computer screens.
 Meanwhile, the choice of pornographic content directly 
depends on how the actors please one another, as 66 percent 
of people said that they care a lot about the type of sexual 
acts performed in porn. Not only do students want porn 
performers to be a certain sex, but they also expect them to 
look certain ways (66 percent), be a certain age (48 percent) 
and have a particular sexual orientation (45 percent) and race 
(41 percent). At the same time, UCSD folks are significantly 
less picky when it comes to details such as the plot, setting 
or background music. Remarkably, a significant number of 
respondents confess that they prefer other forms of pornog -
raphy, such as written pornography, gif-porn and images to 
video porno. But no matter what content students choose, 
it is very unlikely that they pay for it, with only 5 percent of 
students claiming to purchase pornographic content. Sorry, 
Brazzers, $30 per month is almost four meals at Pines or 24 
laundry loads.While the majority of UCSD students do watch porn (and 
rather often) they are not oblivious to the fact that pornography 
is a very controversial phenomenon. While our respondents rec -
ognize that it can be a great way to explore yourself, relieve stress 
while masturbating and strengthen your relationship with a part -
ner, some also acknowledged that pornography can also create 
false impressions about sex, promote non-consensual or unsafe 
sex, normalize objectification of women, fetishize certain sexual 
orientations or races and even turn people into porn-addicts. 
The data presented by Stoppornculture.com demonstrates that 
88.2 percent of top-rated porn scenes contain aggressive acts. Of 
pornography containing sexual violence, 70 percent of the time, 
a man perpetrated the aggression and 94 percent of the time the 
act is directed toward a woman. Despite these statistics, we were 
happy to find out from our survey that UCSD men and women 
are equally aware of the objectifying quality of pornography. It 
is a good reason to believe that in an educated community, like 
UCSD, even those who are not damaged by socially problematic 
images displayed in porn are ready to recognize the perpetuated     
inequalities and fight against them. No matter the race, gender 
or sexual orientation, students — who account for a third of all 
consumers of pornogrphy in the U.S., according to Pornhub — 
should take responsibility for what they watch and always keep in 
mind that pornography has an influence on our lives, and the 
influence it has largely depends on us. 
The Age of Porn
Written and Compiled by
Olga Golubkova // Senior Staff WriterIllustrations by Elyse Yang / GuardianWEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JUNE 4, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
BEAR GARDEN
Senior Send-off
FREE FOR ALL UCSD UNDERGRADS
JUNE 5, 3-6 PM, RIMAC FIELD
All ages welcome
Free for UC San Diego undergrad students with valid student I.D. 
21+ bring valid government issued I.D. in addition to student I.D.For more information, please contact ASCE at avpconcerts@ucsd.edu
Churros
El TigreLittle
CaesarsDelicioso
Catering
Food TruckKettle
Masters 
Kettle Korn
20% OFF
EVERYTHI NG ALL WEE K
EXTRA DAILY SPEC IALS!
WEEK
SALESALE
SPR ING 2015
THURSDAY
FRIDAYLOCAL SALE
25% OFF ALL
LOCAL COLLECTION
LIBRARY WALK, 10am-3pm25% OFF EVERYTHING!
“Porn is a wonderful and natural thing. Sex is natural and beautiful and should 
not be stigmatized. The same goes for masturbation or other types of self love. 
As long as the people involved in the porn making are doing it consensually, I 
see nothing wrong with pornography. It’s also healthy to indulge in fantasy. I 
find it empowering to engage in or view consensual sexual acts. I know some 
people find it degrading, which is bunk. I am the child of an erotic dancer. I was 
raised by a sex worker. There is nothing degrading about her position. It is her 
choice to participate, she is in control of her body and she enjoys what she does. 
What’s wrong with that?”“Everybody needs a release or some way to help them achieve a decent 
orgasm. There’s no shame in receiving pleasure from yourself. If there’s 
anything to learn from good porn (yes, it exists in non-violent/aggres -
sive genres), it’s how to better please someone else when the situation 
calls for it. Porn can be a communicative tool for bettering any degree 
of health for a relationship, and I definitely recommend young people to 
explore all areas and find something they’re comfortable with. ”
“The genre options can be extremely degrading toward women, especially 
those of different races. I just watched the documentary ‘Hot Girls Wanted, ’ 
and I learned there’s a porn genre called ‘Latin Abuse, ’ where Latin women 
are spoken to in vulgar ways and forced to do sexual acts and endure other 
degrading comments/actions. ”“Well, it objectifies the human body, and there’s a lot of weird porn out 
there. Whenever I watch porn I always think, ‘Damn, that’s somebody’s 
daughter, ’ and then I feel weird. ”Asian
a m at e u r
teen
lesbian
Milf
h e n ta ilesbian
bdsm
a m at e u r
g ay
h e n ta i
female -friendl y                  16
               12
        9
  5
  5
  5                23
             21
          18
        16
       15
  10
? ?
? ?More than 1-2 times a week
1-2 times a week
1-2 times a month
Every other month
Very rarelyHow often do you watch porn?10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JUNE 4, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
CLASSIFIEDS$
Guar dian Classi/f_ieds ar e FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifieds
BIKES
Bicycle BMX Childs Size - $45. BMX Bicycle 
Red Next Clutch RX Pro. Excellent condi -
tion. Listing ID: 154744172 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
3 Bikes for Sale in Coronado - $225. 
Cleaning out my garage and need to sell 
three bikes. All bikes need some TLC. $75 
each bike or make me an offer. Listing ID: 
154744171 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Full Suspension Trek 9000 Mountain Bike 
- $150. Vintage Trek 9000 purple and 
green mountain bike. Terrific condition, all 
working parts. Tires in attractive condi -
tion. Headlight and tail light included. I 
purchased it on CL a few months ago so I 
can’t tell you the specifics other than what’s 
shown in images. Listing ID: 154744170 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
ELECTRONICS
San Diego Fun Photography and Camera 
Workshops - Offering an awesome eight 
hour workshop with a small group of pho -
tographers. For more details please visit http://www.DSLRclasse.com or http://
www.facebook.com/dslrclasses. Listing ID: 
155063176 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Digital Concepts 100% Leather Camera Bag 
- $15. Brand new with tags! Unused. Can 
fit a standard camera and lenses and other 
accessories. Various pockets. Carrying strap. 
Water resistant. Lightweight and compact. 
Fully padded. From a pet-free and smoke-
free home! Listing ID: 155063175 at ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tion
Tram Wired Lavalier Microphone - $175. 
This is a Tram TR-50 wired lavalier micro -
phone kit in attractive condition. It has a 
standard three pin XLR connector and is 
battery powered. The kit also includes a 
number of holders and a windscreen. I only 
used this mic on a handful of gigs and it 
has always been kept in its case away from 
moisture/dust/heat. Listing ID: 155063171 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
FURNITURE
Five Piece Dining Room Set - $325. Round 
glass dining room table and four chairs for 
sale! Gently used and like new! Listing ID: 155054603 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Queen Bedroom Set - $700. Ready for 
pick up in Mission Valley! Headboard, rails, 
nightstand, dresser and mirror! Mattress 
not included. Gently used. Dresser and 
nightstand need a good polishing and 
will be like new! Listing ID: 155054598 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Nice Area Rug - $100. Red border with reds, 
light blue and dark blue colors. Attractive 
condition. 116” long by 79” wide. Listing ID: 
155063179 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
.com/ucsdguardian
CONGRATULATIONS TO THE
GOOD LUCK GRADS!
WE’LL MISS YOUTANYA “T-$$” ZHANG
A.S. GRAPHIC STUDIO A.S. GRAPHIC STUDIO A.S. GRAPHIC STUDIOCALVIN “MENTE” LY BRYANT “B+” LIMCLASS OF 2015
WILL “EWOK” PARISSENTI
TRITON OUTFITTERS TRITON OUTFITTERS“MADI” MOTOYASU
TRITON OUTFITTERSAUSTIN PETERS
Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies 
on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.ukLevel: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
Level:
12
34Level:
12
34Level: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
SUDOKU
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
t
your visi on,
our missi on.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom a pparel to 
promote your student 
organiza tion with Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!GOOD LUCK ON FINALS!SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JUNE 4, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
indictment of the FIFA officials, the 
U.K. joined it in criticizing FIFA ’s 
functioning and ethics.
Several FIFA officials and      
analysts were quick to notice that 
the U.S. and the U.K. had failed 
bids for the 2018 and 2022 World 
Cups, bids that went to Russia and 
Qatar, respectively. Think about 
this for a second: The next two 
World Cups will go to Russia — 
one of the most corrupt states in 
the world that surprisingly also 
hosted the recent Winter Olympics 
in Sochi (which didn’t turn out 
that great) — and Qatar, a country 
ranked so low on the Universal 
Humans Rights Index that I am 
still searching for it. Qatar also 
has a very large income inequal -
ity gap and an approximate 4,000 
migrant workers expected to die 
building the World Cup’s stadium. 
If that is still not enough, the 
games would have been played in 
a 120-degree heat, which forced 
the Cup to be pushed back to the 
middle of November when the  
temperatures are more bearable, 
which, you know, is just when 
the national leagues start to play 
real soccer. The FBI announced 
yesterday that they would also 
investigate the process that awarded 
these World Cups. Everything is so                         perfectly imperfect, and the           
marriage between FIFA and these 
countries is just too great.
One final point is to be made 
here: FIFA is the first international 
sports body in history to be shaken 
up with such a scandal. Money in the 
world of soccer is flowing in from 
everywhere, especially from Qatar, 
and is slowly changing the face of 
soccer. Historic soccer powers are 
no longer making the calls at the 
international stage, and now FIFA 
is calling the shots, a “non-profit” 
organization that made no less than 
$4 billion this past year with the 
World Cup in Brazil. That in itself 
is spectacular, but the audacity with 
which most officials rebutted the 
accusations is even worse. One of 
the former vice presidents of FIFA, 
Jack Warner, presented an article by 
the satirical site The Onion to prove 
his point that “if FIFA is so bad, why 
is it that the United States wants to 
keep the World Cup that will start 
May 27 of this year?” Y es, I know.
Pierce concludes, “It is incorrect 
to refer to FIFA as being ‘fraught’ 
with corruption or ‘riddled’ with 
crime. FIFA is itself a corrupt act. 
FIFA is itself the crime. ” With Blatter 
stepping down, the fight against 
crime is just starting.This past Tuesday, Team USA 
played the Serbian national team 
in front of a sold-out crowd at              
Canyonview Pool. USA water polo, 
led by John Mann from the New Y ork 
Athletic Club and Bret Bonanni from 
Stanford University, defeated the     
Serbians 12–10 after a thrilling finish. 
The designated home team, Serbia, 
scored first through Strahinja Rasovic 
on a superb deviation in front of the 
goal to beat USA goalie Merrill Moses. 
Team USA equalized shortly after in 
the first quarter on a five meter, but 
Serbia took a 2–1 lead into the second 
quarter on a goal from Zivko Gocic. 
In the second period, the No. 2 
team Serbia extended its lead when it 
netted another goal, putting the score at 3–1 in its favor. Team USA finally 
settled down and dominated the rest 
of the period. Serbia led 4–2 when 
Team USA scored four unanswered 
goals to end the period. Mann got on 
the board and back-to-back goals by 
Bonanni gave the United States a 6–4 
lead going into halftime. 
Dusan Mandic scored at the  
beginning of the third period to 
make it a one-goal game, but Team 
USA pulled away with three more 
unanswered goals — netted by 
Mann, Bonanni and NYAC‘s Tony 
Azevedo, respectively — to take a                   
commanding 9–5 lead. Although 
Serbia scored a goal before the end of 
the period to reduce the deficit, the 
damage was done. 
In the final period, the U.S. took 
a 10–7 lead on Mann’s fourth goal 
of the game. Serbia was not done, however, as it made a final push for 
the game and got within one goal 
of its opponent with three minutes 
remaining. With a slim 11–10 lead, 
Team USA once again relied on Mann, 
who delivered with his fifth goal of 
the game to seal the deal. The defense 
and Moses, who had eight saves in the 
game, shut out the Serbians in the final 
3:03 of play.
It is the first time Team USA 
defeated the Serbian national team 
since the Olympic semifinal in 2008. 
This game was only the first of a four-
game series that will continue today in 
Riverside, California, at El Toro High 
School in Lake Forest, California on 
Sunday and will finish next T uesday  
in Chicago.FIFA’s Leaders Accused of  Corruption
▶ THIS WEEK IN SPORTS , from page 12
readers can contact
marcus thuillier   mthuilli@ucsd.edu readers can contact
marcus thuillier   mthuilli@ucsd.edu USA W A TER  POLO
USA Downs Serbia at Canyonview Pool 
In the first matchup of a four-game series against the number two team in the 
world, Team USA came out on top with goals from John Mann and Bret Bonanni. 
B y  marcus thuillier
sports editor
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE / UCSD GUARDIAN
FOLLOW US ON TWITTER
@UCSD_SportsSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
MARCUS THUILLIER
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JUNE 4, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
Charles Pierce, a writer for the 
online sports website Grantland, 
rightfully titled his article about 
the recent FIFA scandal “Zurich 
Is Stained: FIFA and the Sports 
Crime of the Century. ” Maybe even 
the word “setback” is too nice for 
the rotten, corrupt and disgraceful 
organization that FIFA has become. 
It was about time that someone 
came down on FIFA president 
Sepp Blatter and his colleagues. 
These someones are the U.S. Justice 
Department and the FBI, assisted 
by Swiss investigators, who went 
up to the hotel where the FIFA 
officials resided to arrest them 
this past week on charges of fraud            
and corruption.
Let’s take it back a notch. FIFA 
has been corrupt for at least the 
past 20 years, which basically spans 
the time Blatter has been in charge. 
The system is rotten and favors 
small countries, like Andorra and 
Liechtenstein, which have the same 
power as soccer’s major powers, 
like Spain and Germany. The voting 
system is “one vote for one coun -
try, ” and a total of 209 votes are 
counted to elect the president. This 
means one thing: As long as Blatter 
and his henchmen do well by 
smaller and poorer countries, they 
will give Blatter their undisclosed 
support. One example of this is that 
the revenue from FIFA for World 
Cups is split equally among all the 
countries, to ensure the support of 
the smaller countries. Liechtenstein 
gets the same amount of money as 
the United States, which is appalling.
Also contributing to the   
appalling system, this past week, 
some of the high-end officials who 
took advantage of this system got 
arrested on several charges of fraud 
and corruption. Even Blatter, who 
had been sitting comfortably on his 
throne atop the world of football 
and just recently extended his reign 
for a fifth consecutive mandate as 
voted last Friday, had to step down 
following the pressure he faced. 
We cannot make rash judgements, 
and the judicial process will take 
time, but as the New Y ork Times 
recently pointed out on Monday, 
“Federal authorities believe that 
Sepp Blatter’s top lieutenant at FIFA 
made $10 million in bank trans -
actions that are central elements 
of the bribery scandal engulfing 
international soccer, ” according to 
U.S. officials and others briefed on 
the case. Come on, there is no way 
Blatter hasn’t taken some of that 
bribe money for himself.
Nate Silver from fivethirtyeight.
com reports in his “How To Break 
FIFA ” piece that “Michel Platini, 
president of the European football 
federation UEFA, said its 54 coun -
tries might quit FIFA if Blatter is 
re-elected as FIFA president. ” For 
now, these may be meaningless 
threats, but they paint a bigger   
picture in which the whole world 
of football is shaking. After the U.S. 
released the report that led to the Justin Donatella has already made         
history at UCSD. In the past year 
alone, he’s knocked down single-
season records for ERA, strikeouts and 
opposing batting average; he led the 
California Collegiate Athletic Association 
during the regular season in multiple 
pitching categories and had an incredible 
0.78 ERA leading into the postseason. He 
was recognized for a handful of awards 
for his stellar performance on the mound: 
He was named the CCAA ’s Most Valuable 
Pitcher and was the consensus vote for 
West Region Pitcher of the Y ear, as well as 
All-American.
 Donatella’s story wasn’t always one 
of massive success; rather, it was one of 
pure determination and rock-solid work 
ethic. The 6-foot-6-inch right-hander out 
of Saugus High School in Simi Valley, 
California, started out in baseball like any 
other kid. He started playing at age 5 and, 
gradually, baseball morphed from “just 
a game” into something that defines his 
life. He came into the recruiting game as 
a junior with a modest 3–5 record and 
a 3.74 ERA. Although this record didn’t 
make him highly sought after by big 
Division-I programs, UCSD Head Coach 
Eric Newman saw potential. 
“He was a big, athletic kid, ” Newman 
told the UCSD Guardian. “He had a good 
arm; he just wasn’t necessarily a good 
thrower by Division-I standards at that 
time. We saw there was a good chance 
that he could improve and do well on our 
team, though. ”
Coming in to UCSD, Donatella knew 
that it could be the right fit — and not 
just because of baseball. With two parents 
involved in education, going to a school 
with a good academic reputation was a 
no-brainer. After a visit to the campus, 
he knew it would be the right choice. 
From the get-go, he was “locked into the 
UCSD experience, ” according to Coach 
Newman: He maintained his academic 
standing and put effort into his classes. He 
took care of his grades to hang on to his                   
eligibility and to be able to achieve athletic 
and academic success. 
The right-hander had committed to 
becoming something great, and he wasn’t 
going to let go until he had reached his 
goals. However, as is typical for many 
freshmen recruits, the pitcher had significant work to do on the field to           
establish himself as a dominant feature in           
collegiate baseball.
 “Coming in, I was just another    
freshman, ” Donatella told the Guardian. 
“I struggled. Y ou learn from all of the   
struggling, though. By the last week or so 
of my [freshman] season I knew I wasn’t 
going to play much more, but I took what 
I had a hard time with [during the season] 
and just worked on it. I still worked out; I 
went to the gym with one of my buddies 
every day, I worked on throwing … [and] 
just got in any extra practice I could. ”
 It wasn’t long before he hit his stride. 
After the typical bumps and bruises of his 
freshman experience, Donatella began to 
step into the limelight. 
“He made a significant jump his   
sophomore year, ” Newman said. “He got 
stronger; he threw a little harder. He  
started pitching in the upper 80s to low 
90s and started looking like he was going 
to be a top pitcher for our league. ”
 He didn’t disappoint. His sophomore 
campaign was just the start of something 
great, but his junior season was what   
really turned heads. Coaches and MLB 
scouts alike were noticing Donatella’s 
experience and “maturity” on the mound 
— the payoff of countless hours of extra 
work outside of practice. “The ultimate 
goal for me was always to win a national 
championship, ” Donatella said. “I wanted 
to be the ‘Friday-night guy, ’ the ace of the 
staff. It helped for me to just put in that 
extra work and to talk to my coaches. 
They can give you an outside perspective, 
and it helps you learn what needs work. ”
Now, after a stellar junior season, the 
pitcher has some major decisions to make. 
MLB scouts caught wind of Donatella’s 
success, and they liked what they saw. “I 
know we had scouts at almost every game 
he pitched this year — he has a good 
opportunity [to go pro], but he ultimately 
will be the one to decide if he’s ready to 
take that next step, ” Coach Newman said. 
Donatella is just shy of a week before 
he has to make his decision: to ink a pro -
fessional contract or to stay another year 
at UCSD. Both coach and parents agree 
that, regardless of when he chooses to go 
pro, his schooling will be most important. 
Whether it’s now or later, it seems the 
general consensus is that his academic  history will play just as important of a role 
in deciding Donatella’s future as baseball 
will. Newman — a junior signer himself 
— knows that it will ultimately be about 
finishing his degree and having a solid 
academic history behind him, despite his 
talent and professional potential.
Whatever his decision, he will surely 
have a bright future ahead of him. “Even 
if he [doesn’t] sign this year, I’m sure 
he’ll get the opportunity again next year, ” 
Coach Newman commented. “He’s got a 
great work ethic and good athleticism; he’s 
been working and developing all three of 
his pitches. He’s worked a good change-up 
and slider, and he throws a good fastball. 
He’s going to do well whenever he decides 
to [play professionally]. ”
Donatella, like many other baseball 
players at every level of play, knows that 
playing MLB is the ultimate dream. “If 
it all pans out, I want to pursue that 
[dream], but I could very well be back 
playing for UCSD next season, too. My 
parents will be in on the decision, too; 
I’m just waiting to see if it’s all going                    
to line up. ”The Fall of  
a Rotten and 
Fraudulent 
Organization 
marcus thuillier
mthuilli@ucsd.eduthis week in sports         
See THIS WEEK IN SPORTS , page 11
readers can contact
Ka tie potts    kpotts@ucsd.edu Written by Katie Potts // Photos by Kelsea BerghBursting Onto The Scene
PHOTO USED WITH PERMISSION FROM UCSD ATHLETICS