VOLUME 49, ISSUE 19  MONDAY , NOVEMBER 30, 2015 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
UC STRESS
DISASTER
STRESS HAUNTS OUR STEPS AS 
WE MAKE OUR WAY THROUGH 
WEEK 10. HOMEWORK, FINALS 
AND PROJECTS PILE UP AND 
THREATEN TO CRUSH US. FIND 
THE ANSWERS IN STUDENT’S 
GUIDE TO STRESS. 
WHITE  STUDENT  UNION
TRIUMPHANT  TRITONSARROGANT AND  IGNORANT
W.  BASKETBALL  UNDEFEA TEDOPINION,  P age   4
SPORTS,  P age  12
MONDAY
H 66 L 47TUESDAY
H 67 L 47
WEDNESDAY
H 73 L 51THURSDAY
H 71 L 53
FORECAST
VERBATIM
NO LONGER WILL YOU RUSH 
INTO A STORE OR WRESTLE 
AN IPAD OUT OF A FOUR-
YEAR-OLD’S SMALL, CLINGY 
FINGERS. YOU’RE TOO GOOD 
FOR THAT. ASPIRE TO BE LIKE A 
YOUNG, GEEKIER VERSION OF 
BATMAN, SAVING LIVES WITH 
THE HELP OF DISCOUNTED 
TECHNOGIFTS. 
- HOW-TO GURU
CYBER MONDAY
OPINION , PAGE 4
INSIDE
LIGHTS & SIRENS  ............ 3
BLACK FRIDAY  ................ 4
UBER EMPLOYMENT  ....... 8
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU  ..10
M. BASKETBALL  ............ 12“FEA TURES,  P AGE  6
ILLUSTRATION BY CHRISTINA CARLSON
The UCSD Police Department is 
currently investigating an incident 
in which nearly 75 parking permits 
were embezzled from the Gilman 
Parking Structure, resulting in a loss 
of $17,000.  The case was reported 
on Nov. 16.
Transportation Services Associate 
Director Todd Berven explained that 
the permits involved were of the variety 
in which the parking information 
could be manually transcribed.
“Permits are allocated to 
individual cashiers and are tracked 
appropriately, ” Berven told the UCSD 
Guardian. “The permits in question 
are an older style which requires 
cashiers to write in information on the permit that specifies what that 
permit can be used for. ”
According to the police 
department’s online crime log, 
officials have identified a suspect 
responsible for the thefts, which 
have been reportedly occurring since 
March. The UCSD Police Department 
declined to comment on the case.
Berven explained that the 
university is in the process of 
implementing a new system that 
will use license plate numbers to 
differentiate between individuals who 
have and have not paid for parking 
instead of distributing physical 
parking permits. 
“We are in the process of 
eliminating all permits and using 
technology to create a ‘permit-less’ 
system, ” Berven said. “We have 
already begun testing License Plate Recognition technology with parking 
customers and have added new pay 
stations throughout campus. Using 
License Plate Recognition technology 
will be a more secure and efficient way 
to handle parking on campus. ” 
Transportation Services is 
working with police officials on this 
ongoing investigation. Individuals 
with information regarding this 
incident can contact the UCSD Police 
Department’s Detective Unit at (858) 
534-4359. 
Additionally, individuals whose 
permits have been stolen can download 
a missing permit report template from 
the Transportation Services website 
and turn in a physical copy to the 
office to receive a replacement.UCSA Proposes New 
Systemwide Membership Fee
To maintain the organization’s current operations 
and political leverage, the University of California 
Student Association proposed a new funding model 
for itself on Nov. 18. The proposal, known as Student 
Advocacy, Governance and Engagement, introduces a 
“voluntary opt-out fee” that students can pay directly to 
UCSA rather than through the membership dues each 
campus’s student government pays to UCSA.
Currently, membership dues gathered from UC 
campuses make up roughly two-thirds of UCSA ’s budget, 
according to UCSA President and UC Berkeley student 
Kevin Sabo. However, student governments are in control 
of how involved their respective student populations are 
in UCSA.
“The minimum level of contribution from each 
association to qualify as members is $1.30 per student per 
year, which is the amount most associations do pay, ” Sabo 
told the UCSD Guardian. “However, some associations 
have elected to contribute above this minimum. ”
Sabo explained that this has led to differences in 
representation among UC campuses when compared to 
their shares of the budget.
“Some associations, specifically ASUCSB, are 
contributing a far greater share of the budget’s revenue than even associations who represent more students … while 
still only maintaining the one vote on the UCSA Board of 
Directors each association gets, ” Sabo said.
The current pay model also allows student governments 
the option to not pay membership dues to UCSA at 
all, further skewing the premise of equal representation 
system-wide; some campuses are more actively involved 
than others depending on the size of their contributions. 
This, according to the UCSA website, has resulted in one 
in 10 UC students having no voter representation in the 
organization.
The UCSA ’s budget allows the organization to rally UC 
students across all campuses through social movements 
like UCSA ’s sexual assault campaign, UConsent and a slew 
of topical student conferences. The budget is also necessary 
for maintaining a political presence in State and National 
Governments, as well as on the UC Board of Regents. 
UCSA is responsible for advocating for the creation of 
the Student Regent position and for securing the two-year 
tuition freeze after administration threatened an increase 
just last year.
However, Sabo added that even in the case that all 
schools paid the minimum contribution level, it would still 
not be enough for UCSA to function in its current state.  B Y  josh  lefler    Staff WriterElectric Chip 
Separates 
Nanoparticles 
from BloodSCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY AROUND CAMPUS
UC SYSTEMThe microscopic particles can 
be used to combat cancerous 
cells and transport drugs to 
specialized areas of the body.
B Y  omkar  Mahajan
Staff Writer
See CHIP , page 3UCSD researchers developed an 
electric chip that uses electric fields to 
remove nanoparticles from blood more 
efficiently than existing methods. Led 
by Michael Heller, a nanoengineering 
professor at the UCSD Jacobs School 
of Engineering, the team published its 
findings in the scientific journal Small 
on Oct. 9.
Heller explained to UCSD News 
that it was necessary to discover a 
method to remove nanoparticles from 
the plasma in order to study the surface 
designs of plasma. 
“We were interested in a fast and 
easy way to take these nanoparticles 
out of plasma so we could find out 
what’s going on at their surfaces and 
redesign them to work more effectively 
in blood, ” Heller said.
According to scientific researcher 
Xavier Tadeo from the Institut Curie, 
nanoparticles are particles that are 
1000 times smaller than the width of 
a human hair and are often difficult to 
separate from blood due to their small 
size and low density. 
Nanoparticles are sometimes 
used in operations to target cancer 
cells and in complex drug delivery 
mechanisms to deliver drugs to 
certain targeted regions in the body, 
bypassing the cell membrane and 
entering through the cytoplasm. 
Previous methods used to 
remove nanoparticles from blood 
included reducing the plasma, using 
a centrifuge to spin the particles out 
of the blood or adding agents to the 
exterior of the nanoparticles.
Stuart Ibsen, a postdoctoral 
fellow in the Department of 
NanoEngineering at UCSD and one 
of the authors of the study, explained 
that this technology requires less 
maneuvering than other methods.
“This is the first example of 
isolating a wide range of nanoparticles 
out of plasma with a minimum 
amount of manipulation, ” Ibsen said 
to UCSD News. “We’ve designed a 
very versatile technique that can be 
used to recover nanoparticles in a lot 
of different processes. ”
The technology used to remove 
nanoparticles from the blood is a dime-
sized electric chip that is made out of 
numerous electrodes which create an 
oscillating electric field that removes 
the nanoparticles from the plasma. 
This happens because of material 
property differences between the 
nanoparticles and the electrodes in the 
electric chip. Thus, as the electric field 
oscillates, nanoparticles are attracted 
to the electrodes and pulled toward 
them without pulling any plasma.
While some nanoparticles 
are able to dissolve in blood, some Suspect Steals $17,000 in UCSD Parking Passes
According to a recent crime log, approximately 75 printed permits were stolen this year.See SAGE , page 3
CAMPUS
B Y  Kevin   santos
Staff Writer
Co-director of TEDxUCSD Bryan Guan introduced featured speakers at the organization’s Global Talks event held in Atkinson 
Hall on Nov. 19 as part of International Education Week. Photo by Hazel Leung /UCSD Guardian
Kevin  Santos   kksantos@ucsd.edureaders can contact2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 30, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG N EWS
AS PER USUAL By Dami Lee
KENDRICK
SCOTTORACLE
artpower.ucsd.edu  
858.534.TIXS (8497)Highly regarded as one of 
the premier drummers of his generation, Kendrick Scott—along with his band—will showcase his incredible subtlety and intensity as well as  highlight his strengths  as a drummer, composer, and leader.
friday , december  4, at 8 pm
the loft
tickets : $18–28;  
$12 ucsd students
DO Y OU TWEET? WE DO!
@UCSDGuar dian
CalCopyUCSD@gmail.com
Lowest
Prices POSTER PRINTINGPRINT/COPY FILES
MAIL • USPS • FedExFastest
Service
MORE INFO AT SOVAC.UCSD.EDU/REGISTERThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. Happy Birthday Jose Lynn!! You are awesome 
and this message is too cheesy for your always bubbly 
personality! We love you <3.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Interim Marketing Director
Laura Chow
Training and Development Manager
Cedric Hyon
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Vincent Pham
Rosina Garcia
Tina Butoiu
Kriti Sarin
Jacky To
Cassia Pollock 
Marcus Thuillier
Allison Kubo
Kyle Somers
Karly Nisson
Brittney Lu
Olga Golubkova
Jonathan Gao
Megan Lee
Joselynn Ordaz
Sherman Aline
Elyse Yang
Christina Carlson
Jennifer GrundmanEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
 
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
Associate Features Editor
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Sherman Aline, Allison Kubo
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim
Editorial Assistants
Sage Schubert Christian, Katie Potts, Christian Duarte, Sam 
Velazquez, Naftali Burakovsky, Julie YipUCSD will commemorate the 27th annual World AIDS Day tomorrow 
with a series of exhibits, presentations and performances across campus. 
Students can view three portions of the largest international art project, 
the AIDS Memorial Quilt, from noon to 9 p.m. in John Muir College 
Room at Price Center. A physician from the Owen Clinic will be speaking 
about HIV prevention from 12:30 p.m. to 2 p.m. and a panel of individuals 
living with HIV will discuss their experiences from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m in the 
same room. 
The Raza Resource Centro, Black Resource Center, LGBT Resource 
Center, Women’s Center and Cross-Cultural Center will also be giving 
informational presentations catered to specific audiences throughout the day. 
Chancellor Pradeep Khosla expressed his support for the annual event 
and how UCSD will continue to pursue related scientific research in a 
press statement on Nov. 19.
“World AIDS Day is an opportunity for the UCSD community to 
join people worldwide to unite in the fight against HIV/AIDS, ” Khosla 
said. “We are dedicated to conducting innovative research and providing 
advanced care to treat patients and prevent the spread of HIV/AIDS. ”
In addition to the aforementioned activities, students will be able to 
learn more about the condition through interactive displays on Library 
Walk. Also, free STD and HIV testing will be available from 11:30 a.m. to 
2:30 p.m.Sixteen researchers and students from UCSD are going to represent the 
University of California at the 21st Conference of the Parties from Nov. 30 
to Dec. 11. 
Led by Scripps Institute of Oceanography under the UC Revelle Program 
for Climate Science and Policy, the group will speak about climate research 
being conducted at UCSD in response to global climate shifts. 
Director of Scripps and head of the UC Revelle program Margaret Leinen 
explained that the group from UCSD aims to make research the focus of the 
COP21 discussion.
“Our role in these climate conferences is to bring science into the 
conversation as much as possible so that the strategies that may become 
national policies have the best chance to be effective in mitigating the 
changes in nature that human activities have precipitated, ” Leinen said in a 
Nov. 24 press release. 
Mariela Brooks, a Ph.D. candidate in oceanography at Scripps, expressed 
enthusiasm at the chance to discuss climate change on an international scale.
“I’m excited for the opportunity to interact with people from all around 
the world and get to learn more about the wide variety of issues being faced 
in connection to climate change, ” Brooks said to UCSD News.
The delegation from UCSD is also planning a collaborative event with the 
Chilean government on Dec. 5, during which they will discuss how climate 
change affects marine environments and ways to protect these regions.University Plans Campus Events for World AIDS Day UCSD Representatives to Attend Conference in Paris IN BRIEF    WRITTEN BY
KRITI SARIN  //  NEWS EDITOR
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGsee more atnanoparticles are insoluble which 
means they have to be removed. 
Although methods to remove 
nanoparticles exist, these methods 
cannot readily be used in a medical 
emergency involving a person, 
according to Medical News Today. 
This new technology is able to remove 
nanoparticles from the blood efficiently 
and does not require chemical dilution.
Santosh Kesari, a professor of 
neuroscience at UCSD School of 
Medicine and one of the researchers 
on the team, described in a 
statement to the Press Trust of India 
News that this technology can help 
doctors determine whether patients 
are compatible with certain drugs. 
“This nanoparticle separation technology can also be used in the 
clinic to determine if the blood 
chemistry of a particular patient 
is compatible with the surfaces of 
certain drug-delivery nanoparticles, ” 
Kesari said. 
Thus, this technology should 
help scientists observe more 
carefully what happens to 
nanoparticles traveling in a patient’s 
bloodstreams and recover them 
quickly if necessary. 
Ibsen remarked that this technology 
also does not require any additional 
alterations to plasma samples.
“It’s amazing that this method 
works without any modifications 
to the plasma samples or to the 
nanoparticles, ” Ibsen said.
Eleanor Roosevelt College junior 
Katie Newcomer, a nanoengineering major, said that this technology is 
necessary since some nanoparticles 
remain in the liver after performing 
their necessary function.
“This is amazing because, 
while nanoparticles have fantastic 
drug delivery abilities, they tend 
to be hindered by the fact that 
they cannot be filtered out of the 
blood, ” Newcomer told the UCSD 
Guardian. “This means that while 
many nanoparticles reach their 
target cancer cell or hazardous 
bacteria, many more just end up 
filtered into the liver. ”
This study was funded by the 
National Cancer Institute.“If all associations only contributed 
the minimum $1.30, our budget 
would be nearly halved, and we would 
have to scale back our operations 
dramatically, ” Sabo said. 
Sabo believes that the SAGE 
fee, which according to the UCSA 
website is projected at $6 for all UC 
students, will allow the organization 
to have “a more sustainable and 
reliable budget that would marshal 
enough resources to ensure our voice 
was being considered in the budget 
negotiations. ”
Though $6 may be an increase 
in contribution for some students, 
Sabo says that this amount is trivial 
when compared to the increased 
utility it will allow UCSA to have in 
negotiations with legislators. 
“If the [University of California] 
did increase tuition by 5 percent for 
this year as it had proposed, students 
would be paying hundreds of dollars more than what we are this year, ” Sabo 
said. “Six dollars to be able to maintain 
the presence in Sacramento that was 
crucial for securing [the tuition freeze] 
seems worth the investment. ”
Sabo said that although the SAGE 
fee is not mandatory, it is important 
for students to contribute in order to 
ensure their needs are being met.
“The entire point of the reform 
is that students are provided choice, ” 
Sabo said. “It simply isn’t effective to 
deal with system issues on a campus 
by campus basis. It requires more 
coordination between our different 
campuses, otherwise administrators 
will just legitimize their agendas … 
We need a strong system voice because 
it serves as a full-time watchdog for 
student interests. ”
UC President Janet Napolitano 
and the Board of Regents are currently 
deliberating over the SAGE proposal. 
UCSA plans to host townhalls at each 
campus to hear students’ questions 
and concerns regarding the proposal. If passed, students can expect to 
encounter the SAGE fee during the 
online UC enrollment and registration 
process, during which students will be 
given the choice to opt out of paying 
the fee.
A portion of the revenue 
generated by SAGE will go toward 
student financial aid, as per the 
UC system’s Return-To-Aid policy. 
This policy, originally suggested by 
UCSA, requires that a portion of all 
university fees charged to students 
go back to financial aid. According to 
the UCSA website, this is projected to 
generate half a million dollars in aid 
for students.
SAGE is not the first fee of its 
kind; UCSA ’s sister organization from 
the Cal State system recently passed 
a similar fee for its student body, 
known as Student Involvement and 
Representation Fee.N EWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 30, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
Three-course meal,Study materials,Snacksand prizes...
ALL FREE!LIGHTS & SIRENSLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edu.
Friday, Nov. 20
4:20 p.m. Information
Two to three skaters reported 
going down road to Blacks Beach. 
Information only.
7:57 p.m. Disturbance: Fight
Intoxicated adult male causing 
discomfort to passengers on bus 
near Gilman and Myers. Closed by 
adult arrest.
Saturday, Nov. 21
1:58 a.m. Citizen Contact
Elderly man asked reporting party to 
call 9-1-1 after a Price Center ATM 
machine took his debit card. Unable 
to locate.
Sunday, Nov. 22
12:14 a.m. Noise Disturbance
Students reported playing loud game 
in the Douglas Hall living room. RSO 
contact card issued.
1:24 a.m. Assist Other Agency
San Diego Police Department 
requested help breaking up off-
campus UCSD fraternity party. 
Report taken.9:41 a.m. Animal Call
Dead animal in street near North 
Torrey Pines Road and La Jolla Shores 
Drive. Referred to other department.
Monday, Nov. 23
5:18 a.m. Information
San Diego Police Department 
reported possible kidnapping 
of older female at McDonald’s. 
Information only.
6:13 p.m. Injury
Female knocked unconscious in 
Geisel Library after hitting head on 
bathroom door as someone opened it. 
Transported to hospital.
Tuesday, Nov. 24
8:21 p.m. Citizen Contact
Bicycle found after two weeks of being 
missing, was never reported stolen. 
Service provided.
8:36 p.m. Noise Disturbance
Loud bass music heard in North Mesa 
apartments. Will cooperate.
— KRITI SARIN
News EditorSAGE Dues Could Generate $500,000 for Student Financial Aid
New Chip Bypasses Chemical Dilution in Nanoparticle Extraction▶ SAGE,  from page 1
▶ CHIP ,  from page 1Josh  Lefler   jlefler@ucsd.edureaders can contact
Omkar  Mahajan    omahajan@ucsd.edureaders can contact
Follow us on Twitter 
@UCSDGUARDIAN4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 30, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
CONTACT THE EDITOR
CASSIA  POLLOCK
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
How-To 
Guru: 
Cyber
Monday
Let’s face it: We barely have 
the motivation to get up and go 
to our 8 a.m. and 11 a.m. classes. 
Waking up at 4 a.m. to wait in 
line for Black Friday is impossible. 
Thought the walk from Revelle 
College to Earl Warren College was 
too much? The jog from store to 
store at UTC in 50-degree weather 
is even worse. Don’t get me started 
on how many students have risked 
their lives to find mall parking. If 
you’re upset from not being able 
to warmly and conveniently make 
your money rain onto slightly 
discounted merchandise, fear not: 
Cyber Monday is here to save the 
day. Looking at all the deals online 
can be an overwhelming task. 
Thankfully, the How-to Guru, much 
like office hours the day before the 
final, is here to help. 
Get all the deals and steals 
in stores, while sitting in the 
comfort of your own home. Don’t 
feel compelled to put on clothes 
or brush off the crumbs from 
Thanksgiving dinner. After eating 
so much the night before, it’s a 
miracle you were able to cram more 
food into your mouth than course 
materials before finals. In order 
to prepare for this enlightening 
day of online shopping, skip all 
your classes on Monday. Although 
we’re only a week away from finals, 
remember that the investment in a 
new coffee maker will pay off with 
higher grades in the long run. Those 
Amazon Lightning Deals won’t wait 
for you to catch up, and besides, 
you don’t need the distraction of 
someone trying to explain complex 
concepts on a blackboard while 
you’re trying to purchase the last 
Xbox or PS4. 
When trying to prove your 
worth and merit to your family 
over Christmas vacay, you might 
be feeling down (like your grades). 
Cheer up. By choosing to shop 
on Cyber Monday instead of on 
Black Friday, you are no longer 
participating in a violent mob of 
shoppers. No longer will you rush 
into a store or wrestle an iPad out 
of a four-year-old’s small, clingy 
fingers. Y ou’re too good for that. 
Aspire to be like a young, geekier 
version of Batman, saving lives with 
the help of discounted techno gifts. 
Hit the sales section on ThinkGeek.
com. Y ou can’t go wrong with a 
discounted USB pet rock, green 
and blue Star Wars lightsabers and 
a Groot plush toy. Heaven knows 
how these gadgets may come in 
handy when you single handedly 
save the world.
Now give yourself a pat on the 
back for finding one of the best 
bargains on the web. Once again, 
the How-to Guru has given students 
more sleep, more savings and more 
deals. As Drake once said, “Once 
you go Cyber Monday, you’ll never 
go Back to Black Friday. ” In a 
stressful time full of finals, essays, 
projects and deadlines, Cyber 
Monday serves as a source of relief 
for broke students nationwide. 
During this period of Thanksgiving, 
we should be thankful we can 
consume even more with less effort. 
If that’s not being American, I don’t 
know what is. The Spirit of  Shopping has Dominated the Holiday Season, 
Despite Some Alternative Campaigns of  Consumer Resistance
QUICK TAKESWITH BLACK FRIDAY SALES BEGINNING AS EARLY AS 6 P .M. ON THANKSGIVING, THE COMMERCIALIZATION OF 
THE HOLIDAY SEASON HAS GENERATED CONTROVERSY, LEADING TO SOME ANTI-CONSUMERISM CAMPAIGNS.See WHITE UNIONS, page 5
This past Thanksgiving night, the nation was once again confronted 
with a difficult choice: celebrate a romanticized, historically inaccurate 
holiday or nab a cheap steal at the mall. And people have increasingly 
been choosing the latter. However, the blame doesn’t lie with the stores 
offering the deals. They showed us the door, but we are the ones who 
walked through it. 
Over 140 million shoppers stormed the malls on Black Friday 2014, 
according to CNBC, and there was no indication of a slowdown for this 
year either. The critics of Black Friday claim it’s killing a quintessential 
American holiday, but Thanksgiving is alive and well and very much 
a viable option. Lest we forget, a healthy amount of stores still do 
not open until Black Friday, such as Costco, Bed Bath & Beyond, 
GameStop, Home Depot, Staples and many more. After REI started an 
#OptOutside campaign, the massive sales did not prevent hikers from 
heading outdoors on Friday. If all the ingredients are there for a classic 
Thanksgiving to happen, yet some people opt to stand in line at 8 p.m., 
you cannot rest the blame on stores like Walmart for opening its doors 
at 8 p.m. The choice to celebrate this holiday is very much there; we 
simply now weigh it against a less sentimental alternative.
Another saving grace of Thanksgiving is a strong trend toward 
online shopping. The years 2013 and 2014 showed massive increases in 
online Black Friday traffic, with Amazon sales up 32 percent year-to-
year in 2014. It’s much easier to have a proper Thanksgiving dinner and 
a successful shopping spree if the latter takes place on the living room 
sofa. Perhaps one day in the future Thanksgiving dinner and shopping 
can co-exist peacefully together, just like the Pilgrims and Native 
Americans managed to put aside their differences for one day and share 
delicious food.
To take away Black Friday is an attack on free will and consumer 
choice. Those who argue against it have overestimated its importance 
in the country’s psyche. Consumers may have lost something in favor of 
capitalism, but people have been making these sacrifices for the better 
part of two centuries. The lines wrapping around Target on Friday night 
might have been depressing, but they sure as hell didn’t surprise anyone.
                                —  NIKHIL KANTHI
Contributing WriterCustomers Have a Right to Celebrate Black Friday, Even 
if  it Means Waiting in Line on Thanksgiving
After a nice Thanksgiving dinner with family and close friends, many 
cut their festivities short for Black Friday, a day dedicated to shopping 
before the Christmas season. As another Black Friday has come and gone, 
it has become increasingly clear that the obsession with Black Friday and 
Cyber Monday only serves to highlight our materialistic culture.
Despite the media brouhaha of Black Friday sales, the number of Black 
Friday shoppers and the sales in dollars have been declining for several 
years, according to a commentary by CNBC. It seems that, as reported by 
U.S. News Money, the best deals are available only in limited quantities; 
sometimes only two of each item will be in stock per store. “If you’re 
not one of the very first shoppers, you’re likely to miss out, ” the article 
continues. With the decrease in effectiveness of these sales, not to mention 
the actual physical danger posed by pepper-spraying hordes of shoppers 
wearing rose-tinted glasses, it has been questioned why Black Friday 
is a tradition worth continuing. In fact, various initiatives to combat 
over-consumption are becoming popular, including REI’s #OptOutside, 
a campaign to encourage spending time outdoors instead of shopping, 
and “Boycott Black Thursday, ” a Facebook page with roughly 140,000 
likes, and the international protest demonstrated against consumerism, 
“Buy Nothing Day. ” With this criticism and some evidence that sales are 
decreasing, it would appear the Black Friday is less fashionable than it 
used to be.
Despite its name, Black Friday often begins on Thursday night for 
many stores nationwide. According to TIME Money, Macy’s and Target 
open with doorbusters at 6 p.m on Thanksgiving night. These sales are 
intruding on the sanctity of giving thanks, and to force retail workers to 
work on Thanksgiving night is unfair to them and their families.
While initiatives such as REI’s #OptOutside and “Boycott Black 
Thursday” demonstrate that there are alternative movements against 
materialism, it is clear that most people adhering to mainstream 
expectations will succumb to the societal pressures of consumerism. 
This is demonstrated through so-called holidays like Black Friday, Small 
Business Saturday and Cyber Monday. Discount prices and intense sales 
are no excuse for the excessive spending that completely dominates the 
holiday season.
                                 — AARTHI VENKAT
                              Contributing WriterILLUSTRA TION   B Y  EL Y SE  Y ANG
Several white student union groups propped up at colleges across the U.S. The result has led to 
more racial conflict by emphasizing a hostile, ignorant view of  racially marginalized groups.BY MEGAN MONGES // CONTRIBUTING WRITER
ILLUSTRA TION   B Y  EL Y SE Y ANGWhite “Pride”
The past few weeks have brought a great deal of civil unrest on college 
campuses around the country. Protests against racial discrimination at 
the University of Missouri compelled the school’s president to resign 
and sparked similar protests at colleges across the United States, including 
at UCSD. Students are taking a stand, calling for equality, understanding 
and change. However, these movements have brought forward another 
interesting and disturbing development: Some white students are now 
proclaiming that Black Lives Matter protests have caused unjust treatment 
of all Caucasians. Following this, white student union Facebook pages 
have been created for more than 30 different colleges, including the 
University of Illinois, UCLA and UC Berkeley. These unions are making 
more turmoil on racially charged campuses, marginalizing the efforts made 
by students and other activists in creating a safe and diverse community.
The first of these pages to be noticed online was the “Illini White 
Student Union” created for students at the University of Illinois in direct 
response to a protest that occurred on campus, showing solidarity with 
“Mizzou” students. They stated that their mission is for white students 
at the university to “form a community and discuss [their] own issues 
as well as be able to organize against the terrorism we have been facing 
from Black Lives Matter activists on campus.” This page is by far the 
most extreme, calling for students to report “suspicious black activity” to 
their local campus police. Although the original page has been removed by Facebook, another has already been created, with even more disturbing 
commentary.
The question is why have these pages seemingly sprung up overnight, 
and what purpose could they have, other than to exacerbate racial tension 
on college campuses? With acts of international terrorism on the rise, it is 
possible that these pages are a direct result of xenophobia; white students 
are trying to keep a sense of their own ethnic identity. However, the issue 
can most likely be attributed to long-standing cultural and societal norms 
within the U.S. Inequality between races is a facet of U.S. history, and 
although tension and discrimination has arguably improved in recent years, 
it is still prevalent. Minority students are still underrepresented in all 
areas. Policies like Affirmative Action that are meant to bridge inequalities 
between students have caused many white students to feel like they were 
disadvantaged because of their own skin color.
Although it would be easy for universities to simply take down these 
pages and stop unions, their formations are protected under the First 
Amendment. Some will argue that white students too should be allowed 
to create unions, just as minority students have. In fact, in some cases, 
such as at UC Santa Cruz, the white student union page was created by 
a Latino student in response to what he said was unfair racial biases and 
stigmatization of being white, according to Breibart. More minorities 
are proclaiming that many white students have been subjected to unfair OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 30, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
WEEKWEEK SALESALE
HOLIDA Y HOLIDA Y
SHOP AT THE TRITON OUTFITTERS TENT DURING 
WEEK 10 AND SPIN OUR WHEEL FOR FREE PRIZES 
AND EXTREME HOLIDAY DISCOUNTS!
SHOP ONLINE AT to.ucsd.eduTO SA VE! TO SA VE!
MONDAY - FRIDAY: 10am-3pm
WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
White Student Unions Deepen the Racial Divide on College CampusesLETTER  TO  THE  EDITOR
Several Islamophobic signs 
were posted around campus 
last weekend. Some targeted the 
Muslim Student Association 
(headline: “MSA TERRORIST”) 
and others Students for Justice 
in Palestine.  Hashtags, the 
obvious choice for a mature 
political statement, included 
#StopTheJihadOnCampus and 
#SJPJewHaters.  
This is Islamophobia. From the 
imagery to the hashtags, these signs 
are designed to mislead and to twist 
fear into hatred of our classmates. 
Intolerance bred by religious, 
national and ethnic differences in the 
Middle East has led to war, terrorism, 
ethnic cleansing and thousands of 
refugees with nowhere to go. The 
malicious and ignorant signage 
at UCSD attempts to counter that 
intolerance with more intolerance. It’s 
infantile and pathetic, but worst of 
all, it’s malignant.
We are a group of Jewish UCSD 
students from the U.S., Israel and 
Mexico who dissent from Israel’s 
inhumane policies toward Palestinian 
Arabs. We stand in solidarity with 
our Muslim friends and classmates 
here at UCSD, and we feel obligated 
to point out the obvious fact that 
being Muslim does not implicate complicity in acts of terrorism.  
As Jews, it is within living 
memory that our families were 
refugees, the targets of xenophobia 
and violence. We are disgusted that 
anyone would think to stand in 
solidarity with Jews by expressing 
hatred for another group.
We also feel obligated to point 
out that criticism of Israel does 
not implicate anti-semitism. We 
stand in solidarity with Students 
for Justice in Palestine, just as we 
stand in solidarity with Palestinian 
civil society in their call for peace, 
justice and equality between Jews 
and Arabs in Israel and Palestine.
We welcome new members, 
questions and productive 
conversation: jtpip.ucsd@gmail.com.
  - Mario Attie
Thurgood Marshall College, Senior 
  - Adam Morgan
Muir College, Graduate Student
  - Gal Raz
Marshall College, Seniors 
on behalf of Jewish Tritons for 
Peace in Israel and PalestineTo the editor: 
treatment, just as they have for 
their skin color. For some of the 
less extreme pages, there seems 
to be a common message: Give 
white students at higher institutions 
a place to celebrate their own 
European ancestry, calling for 
peace between all races and 
welcoming students of all ethnic 
and racial backgrounds. 
However, this is not the case 
for the majority of these Facebook 
pages. Instead of creating a serious 
and constructive dialogue between 
students of all racial backgrounds on 
the challenges students face regarding 
to race issues, they have created even more racial conflict. These pages 
ignore the efforts made by students 
and other activists who strive to create 
a safe and equal community for all 
students to gain a higher education. 
These pages do not foster any sort of 
meaningful change or create a safe 
place to celebrate all students. They 
were created to intimidate student 
activists and divert attention from the 
real problems occurring on college 
campuses. This is a tremendous 
problem happening across the country, 
both on and off university grounds. 
University officials are unwavering in 
changing or even addressing the racial 
climates of their schools, students 
are being attacked and silenced for 
their race and/or religion and young people are being shot on city streets. 
Something needs to be changed, and a 
dialogue on race relations desperately 
needs to be opened.
The point is that these student 
unions are not in fact helping unite 
white students. Instead, they are 
undermining the entire movement to 
promote equality. These Facebook 
pages and accompanying unions 
are adding fuel to an existing 
fire, worsening problems and 
building tension. In a time when 
college students need unity to form 
meaningful change, white student 
unions are deepening the divide.▶ WHITE UNIONS from page 4.
MEGAN  MONGES    SEND YOUR LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 30, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
ALLISON  KUBO
features@ucsdguardian.org
If there’s anyone who is an 
expert on museums, it’s Nan 
Renner. Taking on roles such as 
graphic designer, exhibit developer, 
and learning research associate, 
Renner worked at the San Diego 
Natural History Museum (NAT) 
for over 14 years. This quarter, 
she brings this experience to the 
Cognitive Science department 
and is teaching COGS 102A, a 
class on distributed cognition. To 
develop new insights and interests 
as a professor, Renner draws on 
her lengthy experience working at 
The NAT. These interests include 
how people learn through social 
interaction and engagement with 
objects, how the natural world 
works, past and present, as well as 
how people learn science and carry 
out scientific research.
“During my time at The NAT, 
I had to learn continuously to do 
my job in the best way possible, ” 
Renner said. “My work at The 
NAT compelled me to pursue 
a Ph.D. in Cognitive Science 
at UCSD, because I wanted to 
better understand how learning 
happens so we can better design 
environments that promote 
curiosity, creativity, and learning. ”
Renner’s philosophy and 
way of teaching and learning is 
particularly important to her. While 
working with people diverse in 
age, expertise, and life experience, 
Renner has come to the conclusion 
that learning is most meaningful 
when it applies to the real world.
“I advocate for multimodal 
opportunities to enhance 
motivation, enjoyment, and 
learning, ” Renner said. “ As an 
instructor, I commit myself to 
ongoing learning and I model 
genuine curiosity, respectful 
receptivity to others’ ideas, and 
self-reflection. ” 
Renner’s latest work involves 
integrating mathematics with art 
and science, as well as directing 
San Diego’s Art of Science Learning 
Incubator for Innovation. She is 
also conducting research with 
UCSD CREATE, the Center for 
Research on Education Equity, 
Assessment, and Teaching 
Excellence.
Outside academia, Renner 
enjoys the outdoors, regardless of 
whether she is hiking, camping, or 
swimming in the ocean. She also 
likes to cook and eat good, healthy 
meals with her husband and two 
sons. However, she wishes she had 
more time for her hobbies.
“I practice yoga daily, and 
strive to live by the ideals of yoga 
including compassion, generosity 
of spirit, and equanimity, ” Renner 
said “This is an ongoing challenge! 
That’s why we call it ‘practice’ . ”
 Through her experience 
and the work she does, Renner 
encourages people, who are 
passionate about anything, to be 
strong individuals.
“Find the things that you care 
about and love to do, ” Renner 
states. “Devote yourself to lifelong 
learning. Stop looking outside 
yourself for heroes- be a hero for 
yourself. Be kind, have fun, and 
create a world you want to live in.Nan 
Renner: 
From NAT 
to UCSD
by Oliver Kelton// Contributing Writer
illustration by  Christina Carlson For many college students already haunted by the pressure to 
succeed and the consequences of failure, finals week will take 
a very real toll on mental health.  According to a 2013 study by 
the American College Health Association, 51% of American college 
students felt “overwhelming anxiety” within the previous year.
Fortunately,  there are many resources on campus to help combat 
stress, chief among them being the College Mental Health Program, 
provided by the UC San Diego Health System.  Nancy Swerdow 
Downs, a Professor of Psychiatry at UCSD, is Section Chief of the 
College Mental Health Program (CMHP).  She explained stress and 
anxiety to the UCSD Guardian in scientific terms.
“Physiologic stress is our body’s response to fear-provoking or 
dangerous situations and the symptoms that accompany this response, ” 
Downs told the UCSD Guardian.  “ Anxiety is a feeling of unease, 
apprehension or doom that occurs when no immediate danger is 
present. Anxiety is the same feeling as fear, but without a specific 
danger, therefore anxiety can be a free-floating or vague feeling. ”
Although stress is normally regarded as harmful, Downs notes 
that it is also plays a very important role in the functioning of our 
body. Stress hormones such as glucocorticoids and prolactin cause 
our body to adapt in response to perceived threats, increasing blood 
flow to the brain and muscles and alerting the immune system to 
respond to potential injuries.
“Central to the stress response is how our brain interprets the 
threatening stimuli, ” Downs said. “There is an acronym, ‘NUTS, ’ 
which encapsulates this process of threat assessment. Situations that 
are Novel, Unpredictable, Threaten our self/ego, diminish our Sense 
of control activate our biological stress response. ”
Although a certain amount of stress is normal, college students 
can find themselves overwhelmed by it due to their often heavy 
workloads, as well as the impact they feel their current decisions 
have on the rest of their lives.
Dr. Hickman, a licensed clinical psychologist and founder of the 
UCSD Center for Mindfulness, spoke with the Guardian about the 
challenges facing current UCSD students, which are different from 
those that previous generations faced.
“I think there’s a lot of uncertainty in that age group of college 
students because we are a society in transition, ” Hickman said. “In 
the old days people went to college and were quick to find a job 
right after they graduated and moved into their own places, but now 
there is much more of a trend towards people having to take some 
time after they finish college to find a job; that’s stressful too because 
that’s not what parents and grandparents are used to seeing. ”
Y oung adults are particularly susceptible to stress due to their 
relative inexperience in dealing with it.  However, Dr. Downs notes 
that college students’ youth and surroundings can be powerful 
tools to overcome it. For the most part, college is a very protected 
environment for students to live and study in, and the University 
provides multiple programs to treat students’ mental health. Also, 
as a benefit of their youth, college students’ have an advantage in 
adapting to new challenges. 
“We know that the connections to the frontal parts of the brain 
continue to form into early adulthood, ” Dr. Downs said. “These 
connections are responsible for complex cognitive tasks such as 
inhibition, attention and executive functioning. Some researchers 
think that experiences in [transitional age youth (ages 16-24)] such 
as emerging independence, college life, starting a career, and new 
family/social relationships may be partly responsible for continuing 
the process of frontal lobe development. ”
In addition to social and economic changes, the rapid 
development of digital technology is one of the major factors that 
has quickened the pace of modern life, and as “digital natives, ” 
today’s college students are deeply connected to it. As the Internet 
and smartphones are fairly recent inventions, scientists and 
professionals are only beginning to understand the larger effects 
they have on mental health.  For Dr. Downs, this new technology 
has both positive and negative influences on students’ ability to 
manage stress.
“On one hand, the Internet can be an excellent source of 
information and psychoeducation, ” Downs said. “On the other hand, 
students may become addicted to certain video games or websites, 
and these addictions can carry many of the same harmful effects as 
addictions to substances, including reduced resilience to stress. ”
Dr. Hickman adds that modern technology can provide a means 
of practicing Mindfulness, which is his unique approach to stress 
reduction, with other people. 
“The easier answer is to say that social media has made things 
more stressful because we’re constantly on social media capturing 
everything, that it’s just one more distraction, ” Hickman said. “But 
student’s guide to
See  STRESS , page 8College can be a 
particularly difficult 
time for young people, 
causing stress and 
anxiety for many. 
Mental health specialists 
at UCSD want students 
to know that they are 
not alone.Behind  the   lecturn
Alvin Chan, Staff Writer
ALCHAN@UCSD.EDUFEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 30, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
MEET
YOUR FUTURE HERE
©2015 Northrop Grumman is committed to hiring and retaining a diverse workforce. We are proud to be an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer, making decisions without regard to race, color, 
religion, creed, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital status, national origin, age, veteran status, disability, or any other protected class. U.S. Citizenship is required for most positions. For our complete EEO/AA statement, please visit www.northropgrumman.com/EEOwww.northropgrumman. com/meetNGCCAREERS THAT TAKE YOU PLACES.Say hello to Northrop Grumman, where our 
team of innovative visionaries help us expand 
the boundaries of what’s possible in areas of 
unmanned, cyber, C4ISR and logistics. 
It’s our job to help keep the world safe and secure, 
every day. To continue our mission, we look for  
like-minded, creative individuals who want to  
make an impact, who thrive on global challenges, 
and who hold and share the same values as we do.
Let’s do the work that matters – together.  
Univeristy of California - San Diego
10.000 x 15.500 UNMANNED      •      CYBER      •      C4ISR      •      LOGISTICS
UNMANNED      •      CYBER      •      C4ISR      •      LOGISTICS
8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 30, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEA TURES
it’s also just a part of how people 
connect with each other.  I like to 
think that when people pause long 
enough to notice what their food 
looks like, or where they happen to 
be and they take a picture, or they 
comment on something somebody 
says, that it’s actually a way of 
practicing mindfulness. ”
Mindfulness, the guiding 
philosophy of Dr. Hickman’s 
center, has experienced a surge 
in popularity in the last four 
years.  Hickman attributes this to 
an increase in scientific research 
affirming its benefits.  First 
developed as a part of Buddhist meditation, the philosophy was 
brought to the attention of American 
researchers in the 1970s through the 
work of Jon Kabat-Zinn, a professor 
at the University of Massachusetts 
Medical School.  Inspired by Kabat-
Zinn’s work, Dr. Hickman founded 
the Center for Mindfulness 15 
years ago, after a career of treating 
chronically ill patients with more 
traditional therapeutic practices.  
He spoke extensively about how 
to practice Mindfulness, which he 
considers a lifestyle as much as a 
form of therapy.  Leaning back in his 
chair and sipping coffee, he couldn’t 
look more relaxed.
“The idea of Mindfulness is really 
to be in the present moment, because 
stress really doesn’t come from what’s happening right now, it comes from 
our minds going into the future and 
remembering things from the past,“ 
Hickman said. “That’s when we find 
ourselves not present and tend to 
have more stress. ”
To help people practice 
Mindfulness in their daily lives, 
Dr. Hickman advises that, when 
overwhelmed by stress, one should 
ask themselves, “where are my feet?” .  
This forces the person to focus on 
their immediate surroundings and 
nothing more which is  the key to 
Mindfulness.
Although both specialists 
advise students to seek help when 
needed, they note that students can 
make important lifestyle changes 
on their own to reduce stress.  As a long time scholar of psychiatry 
and counselor of individuals 
with mental health problems, Dr. 
Downs advises students to practice 
healthy eating and exercising, 
avoidance of addictive substances, 
and meditation or mindfulness 
to manage stress and anxiety. She 
has faith that, in spite of the many 
challenges and stressors facing 
today’s youth, UCSD students are 
more than capable of overcoming 
their burdens. 
“It’s important to understand 
that stress is a natural part of life; 
you can learn from it and become a 
more resilient person, ” Dr. Downs 
said. “Over the years, I have been 
impressed at the resilience and 
tenacity of our UCSD students as they learn to accept, understand 
and cope with various stressors in 
their lives. ”
The CMHP provides many 
psychiatric services to students, 
going beyond simply prescribing 
medications to treat mental 
conditions.  According to Downs, 
the program prioritizes non-
pharmacological treatments such 
as changes in diet, exercise, sleep 
and hygiene, as well as cognitive-
behavioral therapy.  On campus, 
students can find help at The Zone, a 
lounge located at Price Center Plaza, 
and at Counseling and Psychiatric 
Services (CAPS).Mindfullness Meditation Techniques Offer Another Way of  Managing Stress that is Accessible to Students
Oliver  Kel ton   okelton@ucsd.edu readers can contact▶ STRESS,  from page 6
Too little time, too little money. 
Problems many college students 
have become all too familiar with. 
After class, studying, internships 
and a variety of other facets that are 
part of the juggling feat of being a 
student, finding time to work is a 
daunting task. Paid internships are 
overly competitive, other jobs are 
demanding of time that is already 
in short supply, while tuition, rent 
and day-to-day expenses continue 
to accumulate in the background. 
With graduation on the horizon and 
an increasing reserve of debt to go 
along with it, you have to ask: What’s 
a student to do?
While this question can be 
answered in a number of different 
ways, one solution has gained 
substantial momentum among 
college populations across the nation: 
Uber. The increasingly popular 
transportation service is changing 
the face of work for students on 
university campuses everywhere. 
Since its founding in 2009, the 
company’s appeal to drivers has 
been centered on setting your own 
schedule, being your own boss and 
most of all, generating an additional 
stream of income. The business 
model is nearly a perfect fit for the structure of student life.
 In a conference call with the 
UCSD Guardian and other UC and 
Cal State campuses, Uber Chief 
Advisor and former campaign 
manager for the 2008 Obama 
Administration, David Plouffe, 
spoke about Uber, students and the 
changing face of work-study.
“Students find the Uber platform 
to be something that works within 
their class schedules and allows them 
to make additional money, ” Plouffe 
told the Guardian. “Whether that’s 
to help pay for college, for room and 
board and other expenses. ”
The ability to add an additional 
source of income in a flexible 
manner is an easy concept to adopt. 
While the general population of 
Uber drivers varies in background, 
recently there has been an influx of 
drivers who are students.
“In our research, 11 percent 
of the people who drive for Uber 
are students, so that’s double the 
proportion of students in the 
general population, ” Plouffe said. 
“When you look at the flexibility 
and convenience, it’s not surprising. 
When I was in college, and I hate to 
say it was a very, very long time ago, 
there weren’t opportunities like this. ”The landscape of work-study 
is rapidly changing with the 
introduction of versatile positions 
that companies such as Uber aim to 
provide. A decade ago, having the 
ability to set your own hours, be your 
own boss and virtually dictate the 
conditions of your employment was 
an unimaginable concept; for college 
students today, it’s becoming a reality.
However, Uber and other startup 
tech companies are under fire for the 
very freedoms they offer.  In order 
to become a driver, the company 
requires prospective contractors to 
be over 21 years old, have certain 
liability insurances, drive a car 
made in 2000 or newer and, of 
course, pass a background check. All 
ridesharing contractors go through 
the background check from another 
independent contractor. This feature 
is also being criticized since multiple 
drivers in Los Angeles and San 
Francisco had criminal records that 
the background check failed to catch, 
according to a suit filed in August 
2015 by the Los Angeles District 
Attorney. However, Uber has declared 
both claims as being unfounded, 
citing that its practices offer the most 
freedom for employees. 
Since Uber hires its drivers as contractors rather than employees, 
they are unlikely to receive benefits 
such as unemployment. These 
new hiring practices have come 
under fire since they are largely 
unregulated; Uber works by shifting 
the responsibility and initiative to the 
drivers and sharing the profits.
“For students, the ability to make 
money on your own terms is very 
powerful, ” Plouffe said. “Generally, 
people have two consistent 
observations about their life. They say 
they struggled because they had too 
little time and too little money. That’s 
what’s great about the Uber platform. 
Y ou basically set your own schedule, 
you drive whenever you want or for 
whatever amount of time. ”
Despite the controversy, the 
platform has certainly been embraced 
by not only drivers, but by young 
adults. The company currently has 
over 160,000 active drivers, eight 
million users, and as of September of 
this year, it was estimated to be worth 
50 billion dollars.
“We’re seeing a lot of younger 
people change their behavior 
around cars, ” Plouff commented. 
“Ten percent of millennials, 
according to our data, either chose 
not to buy a car or they got rid of one. Y ou see so many young people 
living in cities, and with things like 
Uber, it’s an inexpensive, reliable 
way to get around. ”
This statement becomes 
increasingly evident around areas 
like college campuses, where many 
students do not have automobiles 
or prefer using a service for 
convenience or as a safety measure 
to avoid drunk driving.
“We’re very excited about the 
role that we’re playing in helping 
to reduce drunk driving, ” Plouffe 
stated. “Drivers are making sure that 
people get home safely. They just 
press a button and they know they 
can get home. ”
The idea isn’t a concept that was 
previously available as a student work 
option, and can prove to be incredibly 
valuable for students across the 
nation. As more startups like Uber 
hire on a contractual basis, the effects 
of this flexible yet unconventional 
business plan will ripple throughout 
the economy. 
“We think it’s a great trajectory 
for the future of the economy and the 
future of work, ” Plouff said.
James  Lommer   jlommer@ucsd.edu readers can contactUber and their flexible hiring practices change and add to the traditional options for student workers.CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 30, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
KENDRICK SCOTT ORACLE
THE LOFT, PRICE CENTERFRI, 12.04  6pmTahrirCAMPUS
CALENDAR
NOV 30 - DEC 062015 POWERED BY THE CHANCELLOR’S OFFICE AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guar dian
Calendar
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar @
ucsdgu ardian .org
WED12.02 TUE12.01
Winter Quarter
Sign Up on Tritonlink
FRESHMAN SEMINAR PROGRAM - UC SAN 
DIEGO
Check out the Winter Quarter 2016 academic 
seminar list! The Freshman Seminar Program offers a wide variety of educational topics in a 
small class format for freshmen. *Get to know 
your professor *Meet incoming students *The small class size encourages class discussion *Receive one-unit of credit on a P/NP basis. Students enroll through WebReg during the freshman enrollment period with regular classes. 
Seminars are open to incoming freshmen (and 
freshmen with sophomore standing). Seminars can be a great educational experience and compliment your regular classes! Check out the 
seminar website for course descriptions, 
schedules and pre-enrollment instructions for 
incoming freshmen who have advance standing.
11am
BODY COMPOSITION - THE ZONE
Walk in for your free analysis which includes: 
body weight, percentage body fat, total body water, and blood pressure. One free assessment 
per quarter is available to registered UCSD 
students.
2:30pm
CAREER CHATS WITH CSC ADVISOR - THE 
ZONE
Chat with Roxanne Farkas, a CSC Advisor, about  
career objectives and goal setting so you can be more successful in obtaining your career goals
5pm
GLOBAL SEMINAR: SOCIAL COGNITION AND 
DRUGS IN ITALY - INTERNATIONAL CENTER DINING ROOM
Interested in studying abroad in Parma, Italy next 
summer? Come to the info session to learn more about this amazing program and the application 
process!FRI12.04
12pm
INTERNATIONAL FRIDAY CAFE - 
INTERNATIONAL CENTER PATIO 
The Friday Cafe provides a venue where 
international and domestic students, scholars, faculty, staff and the local community can come 
together to celebrate cultural diversity and 
international education. Each week the Friday Cafe presents the opportunity to explore world cultures, cuisines, music and more.  Price: $5 per plate
6pm
MOONLIGHT KAYAK MISSION BAY - OUTBACK 
ADVENTURES
Imagine: Mission Bay, calm as glass, paddle drips 
break the reflections of the moon and city lights above the bay. This is a San Diego experience not to 
be missed. After a quick drive to the bay we will 
have a short skills session, launch for the sunset and enjoy the moonlit paddle. No experience required.
6pm
KENDRICK SCOTT ORACLE - THE LOFT
Kendrick Scott is highly regarded as one of the premier drummers of his generation, as shown by the New York Times naming him one of Five Drummers Whose Time Is Now. He has recorded and played with a host of music luminaries including Terence Blanchard, Kenny Garrett, Herbie Hancock, Pat Metheny, Gretchen Parlato, and Angelique Kidjo. His band, Kendrick Scott Oracle (KSO), showcases Scott’s incredible subtlety and intensity and highlights his strengths as a drummer, composer, and a leader. The work of KSO focuses on what it takes to live, act, and love with conviction all through the language of jazz.5pm
GLOBAL SEMINAR: MODERN GREECE INFO 
SESSION - INTERNATIONAL CENTER LOUNGE
Interested in studying abroad in Athens, Greece next 
summer? Come to the info session to learn more about this exciting program and the application process!
5pm
GLOBAL SEMINAR: REVELLE IN ROME INFO 
SESSION - INTERNATIONAL CENTER OCEANIDS 
PAVILION
Interested in studying abroad in Rome, Italy next 
summer? Come to the info session to learn more about this exciting program and the application process! 
Contact: globalseminar@ucsd.edu
7pm
OUTREACH TRIVIA NIGHTS - MIDDLE OF MUIR 
(MOM)
FOOD, FACTS, FRIENDS, & FUN! Come to Home Plate 
Cafe to meet new people and test your knowledge of 
various trivia categories! Free entry to all UCSD 
students and prizes for winning team! Make this a weekly event and turn up the competition! Happy hour prices on food and drinks for trivia participants! 
THU12.03
10am
MEDITATION - THE ZONE
Join us for a guided meditation where you can: -Gain greater mental clarity -Achieve a peaceful state of being -Learn techniques to de-stress 
-Achieve harmony amid cognitive dissonance 
Workshop led by: a UCSD Recreation Instructor
1:30pm
THERAPY FLUFFIES - THE ZONE
De-stress with certified therapy dogs at The Zone!
3pm
R&R QUAD - THE ZONE
Drop-in and get a low intensity back rub from the R&R Squad!
5pm
GLOBAL SEMINAR: TWENTIETH CENTURY 
WORLD HISTORY IN BERLIN - INTERNATIONAL CENTER DINING ROOM
Interested in studying abroad in Berlin, Germany 
next summer? Come to the info session to learn more about this exciting program and the application process!
8pm
THE CHARLIE HUNTER TRIO FT. BOBBY 
PREVITE & CURTIS FOWLKES/ BOMB SQUAD - THE LOFT
Charlie Hunter introduces a new trio with "Let the 
Bells Ring On," a Program of evocatively greasy originals reuniting the 7-String guitar wizard with longtime collaborators -- trombone master, Curtis Fowlkes, and drum maestro, Bobby Previte. Special Guest: Bomb Squad, Tonga Ross-Ma'u - bass keys/organ, Ricky Giordano - guitar, Tim Newton - drums. Doors: 7:30pm, Show: 8:00pm GA Advance: $15, UCSD Student: $10.00 (with valid ID at doors). Advance Tickets On Sale!!  www.ucsdboxoffice.comMON11.30
5pm
AA CAMPUS MEETING - THE ZONE
Open AA Meeting held at the Zone every Monday from 5:00 PM- 6:00 PM. Questions? Contact the Zone at zone@ucsd.edu
5pm
GLOBAL SEMINAR: DRUGS, BEHAVIOR, AND THE 
HISTORY OF NEUROSCIENCE IN GREECE - INTERNATIONAL CENTER LOUNGE
Interested in studying abroad in Athens, Greece next 
summer? Come to the info session to learn more about this amazing program and the application 
process!
8pm
FAMILY OF THE YEAR W/ KALEO - THE LOFT
Like many bands around the world, the origin of 
Family of the Year began in a garage. At times, the band often features acoustic strums, interwoven vocal 
harmonies, and textured melodies.Their mix of indie 
pop flavors with Joeâs earnest lyrics landed the band 
a huge hit with the pensive, acoustic-guitar driven 
single. Their rapid critical and popular acclaim earned them performances on The Tonight Show with Jay Leno, Jimmy Kimmel Live, and Conan. Extensive 
national and international tours followed, where the 
group’s sound resonated in Europe, landing top 10 in 
Austria, Belgium, Germany, Netherlands and 
Switzerland. Their songs even appeared in films like Richard Linklater’s Oscar-nominated, Golden Globe winning film Boyhood.
SAT12.05 &
SUN12.06
10am
GARDEN HOURS - BEHIND LA JOLLA DANCE 
BUILDING AND CHE CAFE
Interested in growing your own food? Want to 
work toward a climate resilient future? Well come to RCG behind the CHE Cafe and the Dance Building in Revelle to learn about our agricultural system, integrated agriculture and much more! Open to any major or student. Plot rentals open to all who want to grow their own food. We are a Student Run garden that believes in sustainability. Join us every Saturday and/or Sunday rain or shine.
10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 30, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
CLASSIFIEDS$
Guar dian Classi/f_ieds ar e FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifieds
crossword
Across
1 Thingamajig
6 Castaway’s home
10 Unpaid credit card bills, e.g.
14 __ of the tongue
15 Celebrity chef Bobby
16 Provo’s state
17 Trailblazer Daniel
18 Bad thing to yell in a crowded theater
19 Hosiery hue
20 Borax haulers, in classic ads
23 Best kind of situation
24 Annual period
25 Getting the job done, briefly
26 Pig __ poke
27 Santa staffer
29 Eager lip sounds
31 Cowboy’s topper
35 “ ... __ saw Elba”
36 Sport __: versatile vehicle
37 LAPD alerts
41 Poker game where one might stand 
pat
46 Sam’s Club competitor
49 Confucian “path”
50 That, in Tijuana
51 Sculptures, oils, etc.
52 Sock-in-the-gut responses, in comics
55 Words of understanding
57 CBS sitcom since 2003
60 Darkroom images, for short
61 Radioer’s “Back to you”
62 New Wave band __ Boingo
64 Settled on a branch, as a bird
65 Twistable cookie
66 Actress Mary-Kate or Ashley
67 __ bargain: court deal
68 E-mail button
69 Salon coloristsDown
1 Chew the fat
2 Big name in gloves
3 It’s to the far right on freeways
4 Sal of “Exodus”
5 Where pirates prey
6 Far from certain
7 Covered with thick, icky liquid
8 Lash of old oaters
9 Place for mascara
10 Sonny and Cher song, e.g.
11 “Yada, yada, yada ... ”
12 President Obama
13 Hitchhikers’ digits
21 Be a rat fink
22 Witty Bombeck
23 TV’s Nick at __
28 Chimney duct
30 Not much
32 Party invitee’s buy
33 Non-Rx
34 Without ice
38 False appearance
39 Kim of “L.A. Confidential”
40 Whack, as a fly
42 Clickable PC image
43 Some West Indian religious cultists
44 Racetrack border
45 Alpo or Pedigree
46 Forty winks
47 “Animal Farm” author George
48 Inferior cigar
53 Quarterback Brett with a record 464 
TD passes
54 Charlie of 
57-Across
56 Etiquette author Post
58 “The Thin Man” dog
59 Yanks’ third baseman, familiarly
63 Switch positionsBIKES
Raleigh Road Bike, Thule Car Carrier, Clips, 
Stand, Cover - $700. Great Christmas gift! 
Make a reasonable offer and it’s yours! I 
bought it in fall 2013 and rode it very little 
in spring 2014 in MN before moving to 
SD fall 2014. It has not been ridden at all 
since I moved here. Carrier is top of the 
line, heavy duty, easy to put on any car and 
includes keys to lock it and your bike. I paid 
approximately $1700 for all of it brand new. 
Listing ID: 210596750 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Hollywood Bike Rack - $75. Like new. Holds 
two bikes. Listing ID: 209969003 at ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tion
Giant Talon Mountain Bike - $800. This is 
a 27.5in Giant Talon mountain bike. I have 
ridden this bike three times and it is in 
terrific condition. No surprises or disap -
pointments. Purchased from bicycle ware -
house in Jan. of 2014 for $1300. Listing ID: 
209969002 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
ELECTRONICS
New 64GB iPad Air 2 - $480. Brand new, 
unopened iPad Air 2. 64GB, silver.  For 
pickup on campus. Listing ID: 209956810 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Samsung 32 Inch TV - $50. In great shape. Beautiful picture. Listing ID: 209690331 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
PS3 with Games and Gold Controller - $100. 
I have a terrific condition PS3 backwards 
compatible system with games and a gold 
controller for sale. You can also play PS2 
games on it. Price is firm. Not going lower. 
Listing ID: 210596813 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
FURNITURE
Luxury Top Leather Length - $1200. This is 
one long, luxurious couch. Super rich top-
grade leather with many extras like extra 
firm cushions so they won’t get squishy 
and elbow/head length side-arms for super 
comfort sitting or lying down. Try it out, 
you’ll love it. Was $3800 new. No marks or 
scratches. Listing ID: 209690003 at ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tion
Set of 2 Metal Chairs - $40. Set of two metal 
chairs with wooden seats. Need a little 
TLC. Make an offer! Listing ID: 210596818 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Silk String Lampshade  - $45. Silk string 
lampshade with hand-sewn soft lining. Soft 
white. 6-½ across top, 20 across bottom 
and 12 top to bottom. Made by Brown 
Lampshade Company. High quality. Paid 
$150 new. Clean. Listing ID: 209969065 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
t
your vision,
our missi on.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom a pparel to 
promote your student 
organiza tion with Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!www.ucsdguardian.org/advertising
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
#OMG 
#LIKE US
#FOLLOW US
@ucsdguar dian
SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 30, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
enough offense and kept its cool to 
close the game out and earn a five-
point victory, 76–71.
“The way our offense works, it 
opens up drives from the top of 
the key, ” Katuna told the UCSD 
Athletics Department. “Being able 
to go through all of preseason this 
year — it really makes me more 
comfortable, and I am really trying to go all in this season. ”
Shokoor, the tournament MVP , 
had her third-consecutive double-
double with 19 points and 11 
rebounds, along with a game-high 
five assists. Katuna had a team-best 
20 points, earning herself a spot on 
the All-Tournament team, along 
with Shokoor, junior forward Kelly 
Hardeman of Azusa Pacific, senior 
guard Chelsea Barnes from Cal 
State San Bernardino and Weatherd of Dominican. MacLeod and 
sophomore guard Taylor Tanita also 
scored in the double digits, with 11 
and 10 points, respectively.
The Tritons are back on the road 
this week to face Sonoma State on 
Wednesday, Nov. 2, in a California 
Collegiate Athletic Association 
matchup. NDNU Thanksgiving Classic 
Game Two 
On Saturday night, UCSD played 
its second game of the back to 
back against the host, Notre Dame 
de Namur and kept its five-game 
winning streak alive with a one-
sided 76–36 victory. The Argonauts 
found it difficult throughout the 
night and continued their awful 
start to the season with a 0–5 record.  
The Tritons continued their 
impressive team shooting for the 
season and ended the game 51 
percent from the field while equally 
putting in a strong defensive effort, 
holding the opponent to a mere 26 
percent from the field. It is the fifth 
straight time this season that the 
Tritons shot at over 50 percent, all 
combining for their best start to the 
season since joining Division-II.
Hansen recorded his second 
double-double of the season with 16 
points and 11 rebounds. Senior guard 
Aleks Lipovic contributed with five 
three-pointers, accounting for 15 
points, and Klie added 10 points.  
Within the first five minutes of 
the game, the Tritons already had 
a 12–0 lead, and they never looked 
back after the outstanding start. Shooting 56 percent from the field 
during the first half, the Tritons held 
a comfortable lead at the half, 38–15. 
Quite differently, the Argonauts did 
not see their shots sink as frequently, 
only making four out of 23 shots in 
the half.  
UCSD never faced a real 
challenge in the game and did not let 
up, scoring 38 points in the second 
half. With less than two minutes 
remaining, the Tritons led by an 
extraordinary 44 points, 76–32.
One bright spot for the 
Argonauts was a 12-point and five-
rebound performance from junior 
guard Jalani Davis.  
“I thought we played well for the 
second game of a back-to-back, ” 
UCSD Head Coach Eric Olen told 
the UCSD Athletics Department. 
“We had a lot of guys contribute, 
which is encouraging. We will need 
everyone to continue to play well as 
we start conference play next week. ”
The Tritons finished the 
tournament 2–0 and improved 
their overall record to 5–0. They 
will look to add to their win tally 
when they travel to Sonoma State 
on Wednesday, Dec. 2., and then 
on Friday at home versus Cal State 
Monterey Bay to open up their 
conference schedule. The two games 
are set to tip off at 7:30 p.m. 
Tritons to Open up CCAA Play this Week
▶ M. BASKETBALL,  from page 12UCSD Leaves RIMAC, takes on Sonoma State on Wednesday
▶ W. BASKETBALL,  from page 12
check  us out online  
ucsdguardian.org/sportsFollow us on Twitter
@UCSDGUARDIANPhoto by Megan Lee // UCSD Guardian
Samantha  glantz   
daniel  hernandez    UCSD
Notre Dame de Namur76 - 36SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
MARCUS THUILLIER
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 30, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
European sports are capitalist. 
Nothing new, you would say, but it is 
interesting to notice that American 
sports are typically socialist in 
their values. The Atlantic already 
underlined this peculiar difference a 
year ago, after Lebron James rejoined 
Cleveland (a small market team). In 
his piece, “Sports Paradox: America’s 
Regulated Economy vs. Europe’s Free 
Market, ” writer Noah Gordon goes on 
to show that “in wild, wild, Western 
Europe, anything goes. Unregulated 
capitalism is matched by unfettered 
competition. In the U.S., the major 
team sports are highly redistributive, 
or even socialistic. ”
Both systems have strong 
arguments as to which one is better. 
But American sports show an 
interesting, unclear zone between 
the American free market and the 
capitalistic system. In the four major 
American sports leagues — NFL, 
NBA, MLB and NHL — there is a 
cap, restricting the owners’ power 
to go out of their way to bid higher 
for a player, like it happens in 
Europe. This just means that a team 
in Cleveland, the 45th largest city 
in America, has the same financial 
power in the NBA as Los Angeles.
The relegation system in Europe, 
where the bottom two or three teams 
go down a division and are replaced 
by the two best teams in the bottom 
division is also diametrically opposite 
to the draft system in America. The 
worst teams in America are “gifted” 
the best young players in an effort to 
give everyone the same chances to 
win the title in the long term. This, 
coupled with heavy taxation for the 
“rich” (or in this case overspender), 
makes the American sports system a 
socialist system.
The big red “S” of socialism — like 
my high school history teacher liked 
to call it — looms over the four major 
American sports, but what does it 
mean for the viewing experience? For 
one, according to Gordon, it means 
that a team like “Green Bay has as 
many Super Bowl titles as the Giants 
of New Y ork. That’s impossible in 
Europe, where the powerhouses from 
Barcelona and Madrid have won 64 
of 83 Spanish league titles” or where 
Bayern Munich’s financial power has 
been dominating the Bundesliga for 
the past four years. 
Kirk Goldsberry wrote for 
FiveThirtyEight about it this week. 
He has an anecdote about his boss 
Nate Silver, who said, “It’s kind of 
ironic. American sports are socialist. ” 
With salary caps, revenue sharing 
and drafts “that generally allot the 
best new talent to the worst teams, 
American leagues intentionally 
promote parity while suppressing the 
natural tendency for some clubs to 
dominate others. ” 
The awkward mix of American 
capitalism and the American 
Dream led to the development of 
socialistic sports league. No matter 
which model is the most fair, I’ll 
enjoy watching Bayern winning 
the Bundesliga and the Cleveland 
Cavaliers trying to bring back the 
first title to the city in 51 years.The Big 
Red “S” of  
American 
Sports
Marcus Thuillierthis  week  in  sports       
The UCSD women’s basketball 
team went undefeated over the 
weekend during its sixth annual 
Thanksgiving Classic tournament 
held at RIMAC arena. The Tritons 
dominated the Dominican 
University of California in its first 
game of the tournament on Friday 
and pulled off a comeback win over 
No. 25 Azusa Pacific University on 
Saturday. The Tritons have now won 
four straight games and hold a 5–1 
overall record.
Game One
The Tritons’ unstoppable offense 
was too much for the Dominican 
Penguins to handle on Friday. Senior 
guard Jamie Katuna scored within 
three seconds to start off the game, 
giving the Tritons momentum. 
The Tritons’ senior forward Farrah 
Shokoor combined with Katuna to 
quickly put up 10 points, igniting 
UCSD’s offense. The Tritons ended 
the first period leading Dominican 
20–10. 
The Penguins cut the Tritons’ lead 
to four after making two consecutive 
three-pointers to begin the second 
period. But the Tritons continued 
their offensive onslaught and put up 
19 more points, making the score 
43–25 going into the second half. 
The Tritons kept the lead 
throughout the entire second half. 
Even though the Penguins were able 
to tally 45 points, UCSD outscored 
them and put up 52 points to secure 
the victory. The final score of the 
game was 95–72, resulting in the 
Tritons’ third consecutive win. 
The Tritons’ junior forward, 
Cassie MacLeod, scored 21 points 
and grabbed a career-best 13 rebounds on the day. Shokoor, a 
2014 All-CCAA selection, tallied 
19 points and 11 rebounds. Both 
MacLeod and Shokoor recorded a 
double-double. Katuna finished off the 
day with 17 points, and junior guard 
Haley Anderson added 12 points.
“We’re definitely faster running 
down the floor, ” MacLeod told the 
UCSD Athletics Department. “We’re 
in very good shape. We have a better 
connection this year; there [are] 
more vocal players. ”
Junior forward Allyssa Weatherd 
of the Dominican Penguins recorded 
a game-best 25 points and grabbed 
11 boards. 
Game Two
UCSD took on No. 25 Azusa 
Pacific on Saturday at RIMAC Arena 
and came away with the upset after a 
second-half comeback. 
The Cougars started out hot in 
the first quarter and led the Tritons 
by seven after 10 minutes of play. 
APU continued to build on its lead 
in the second quarter, with a three 
pointer putting them up by 10. 
However, the Tritons then went on 
a 15–5 run to even things out at 27 
apiece. APU hit another three going 
into halftime to take a three-point 
lead at the break. 
UCSD outscored Azusa Pacific 
47–39 in the second half, behind a 
strong third quarter. Katuna had 10 
points in the third frame, when the 
Tritons outscored APU 28–18. The 
Tritons tied the game up at 43–43 
in the middle of the third quarter 
before going on a 14–7 run and 
entering the fourth quarter with a 
57–50 lead. 
UCSD never lost that lead, even 
with APU coming within one with 
4:25 remaining. UCSD mustered W. BASKETBALL
Thanksgiving Classic Win
UCSD dominates Dominican and No. 25 Azusa Pacific.
b y  samantha  glantz 
and  marcus thuillier
This past Tuesday night the 
UCSD men’s basketball team 
produced a stunning upset against 
No. 4 California Baptist University, 
a 76–67 home victory. The Tritons 
then continued their impressive 
start to the season with a pair of 
dominant victories against Holy 
Names University, 74–50, and 
Notre Dame de Namur, 76–36, 
in the Notre Dame de Namur 
University Thanksgiving Classic 
held in Belmont, California over the 
weekend. UCSD improved its record 
to an unblemished 5–0.
Game One
UCSD had a strong start to the 
game and led 39–29 at the half. Cal 
Baptist fought themselves back from a 
12-point deficit in the fourth quarter 
and cut it down to a mere one point. 
However, the Tritons determinedly 
went on a 16–8 run to end the game, 
which helped them complete the 
upset with a 76–36 victory. 
Overall, Cal Baptist struggled 
to find its shot on the night and 
finished the game shooting a poor 
38 percent from the field. UCSD, on 
the other hand, shot an efficient 50 
percent from the field, including a 
standout performance by freshman 
center Chris Hansen who recorded 
a 17 points and 11 rebounds, 
earning him a double-double. Junior 
guard Adam Klie put in a strong 
performance as well with a game-
high 18 points while shooting 50 
percent for the night, 7–14.
“We have been playing really 
well; what I like about it is that it’s 
been a real team effort; everyone is 
contributing, ” Klie told the UCSD 
Athletics Department. “It’s been a 
great start ... but what really counts is in March. ”
The victory gave UCSD its first 
win against a top-five nationally 
ranked team since 2006, when the 
Tritons defeated No. 2 Montevallo 
in Las Vegas.  
NDNU Thanksgiving Classic 
Game One
The Tritons travelled up north 
to the Bay Area for the weekend 
to compete in the three-team 
tournament and on Friday faced 
Holy Names. UCSD came out 
victorious with a 74–50 win.  
UCSD controlled the game 
from the start with a 7–0 run and 
continued to put pressure on Holy 
Names. Holy Names never got into 
the game and trailed by 14 at the 
half, 41–27. With 3:14 left in the 
game, the Tritons grabbed their 
biggest lead of the night, leading by 
24 points, 70–46. 
Identical to earlier in the week, 
the Tritons finished with 50 percent 
shooting while they held their 
opponent to an inefficient 29 percent 
shooting. Also strong on the boards, 
UCSD out rebounded Holy Names 
50 to 31. Senior forward Drew Dyer 
racked up a game-high 15 points 
with six rebounds, two assists and a 
block. Klie had a near double-double 
as he contributed with 13 points and 
nine rebounds.  
Junior guard Joshua Crum and 
junior forward Jonathan Cortez both 
produced a couple of good individual 
performances for the Hawks, 14 
and 12 points, respectively. Their 
team struggled from behind the 
arc, though, finishing with a very 
poor one of nine for the game. Holy 
Names continued with its bad start 
to the season and dropped to 1–5 
record after the loss.B y  Daniel  HernandezM. BASKETBALL
Tritons Still Undefeated
Upset over No. 4 CBU is followed by tournament win.
Feasting on 
Wins
See W. BASKETBALL , page 11 See M. BASKETBALL , page 11Photo by Megan Lee // UCSD GuardianPhoto courtesy of UCSD Athletics DepartmentW. Basketball
M. Basketball
M. Water Polo
W. Volleyball
W. Basketball  12/02
  12/02
  12/03
  12/04
  12/04AT Sonoma State
AT Sonoma State
AT Princeton
AT Sonoma State
VS Cal State Monterey Bay UPCOMING
UCSD
GAMES
Holy Names74 - 50UCSD
No. 4 Cal BaptistUCSD
76 - 67Dominican95 - 72UCSD
No. 25 Azusa Pacific76 - 71UCSD