VOLUME 49, ISSUE 16   MONDA Y , NOVEMBER 16, 2015  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Q&A WITH 
SENATE HOPEFUL
U.S. SENATE CANDIDATE DUF 
SUNDHEIM IS A REPUBLICAN 
VYING FOR BARBARA BOXER’S 
SOON-TO-BE VACATED SEAT. 
THE UCSD GUARDIAN SAT 
DOWN WITH DUF TO DISCUSS 
HIS IDEAS AND POLICIES.
IT'S  A  BIRD,  IT'S  A  PLANE
WOMEN'S  VOLLEYBALLIT'S  ACTUALL Y  A  DRONE
Next  Stop,  CCAA sOPINION,  P age   4
Sports,  P age  12
MONDAY
H 61 L 44TUESDAY
H 66 L 48
WEDNESDAY
H 70 L 50THURSDAY
H 74 L 51
FORECAST
VERBATIM
Even seemingly 
regular things, like 
jet planes, often 
release toxic bursts of 
radiation to devour our 
brains with alien mind 
control.”
- How-To Guru: Defeat 
the Aliens
OPINION , PAGE 4
INSIDE
LIGHTS AND SIRENS  .......3
FREE EDUCATION  ............ 4
HORESEBACK RIDING  ......7
CLASSIFIEDS  ................ 10
W. SOCCER  ................... 11“FEA TURES,  P AGE  6
ILLUSTRATION BY CHRISTINA CARLSON
Congressmen Eric Swalwell (CA-
15) and Scott Peters (CA-52) visited 
UCSD and hosted a student town hall 
discussion at the Qualcomm Institute 
Auditorium last Tuesday. 
The discussion was part of 
the Future Forum, a branch 
of the Democratic Policy and 
Communications Committee that 
focuses on issues of interest to college 
students and young adults. The DPCC 
was created last year to ensure that 
House Democrats would focus on 
issues party leaders deemed pertinent 
to the American people. 
During the event, the two 
congressmen presented speeches 
about student issues. Afterward, they 
took text message questions from the audience; questions appeared on 
a screen behind the congressmen. 
Since most of the audience was 
interested in student loans and debt, 
the congressmen focused mostly on 
that issue. 
Swalwell, the chair of the Future 
Forum, had visited eight college 
campuses across the country in 
recent weeks to host student town 
hall meetings prior to visiting UCSD. 
Peters, who represents the coastal 
and central portions of San Diego, 
joined Swalwell in leading the meeting 
and answering students’ questions 
on issues ranging from student debt 
to the environment. Swalwell, who 
represents Alameda County in the Bay 
Area, explained his concerns about 
students not reaching their potentials. 
“San Diego is the ninth city [in 
the Future Forum series], ” Swalwell told the UCSD Guardian. “UCSD has 
a very innovative student body, but 
we’re concerned that students may not 
reach their goals because of student-
loan debt. ” 
Since the Future Forum is designed 
to focus on issues that concern young 
adults the Committee appointed the 14 
youngest congressmen to the Forum. 
Swalwell stated that there should be 
a focus on our generation’s interests 
and issues. 
“I believe our generation is a 
very optimistic generation, ” Swalwell 
said during the Forum. “We are a 
very collaborative and innovative 
generation, and anything worth 
changing is worth fighting for. ”
Some students in the audience 
described how they had ideas about UCSD Students March for 
Free Education and Fair Pay
UCSD students and alumni rallied against student 
debt, tuition fees and wage discrimination in the 
nationwide Million Student March protest on 
campus this past Thursday, Nov. 12. Over 110 colleges 
across the country participated in the event, according to the 
national Million Student March website. 
The movement calls for tuition-free public education, 
cancellation of existing student debt and a normalized $15 
minimum wage for campus employees.
UC Office of the President media specialist Kate 
Moser told the UCSD Guardian that the University 
of California supports student efforts to make public 
education more affordable.
“We applaud students who are peacefully exercising their 
First Amendment rights today across our campuses, ” Moser 
said. “We remain strongly supportive of increased funding 
for public higher education. ”
According to its website, individuals who graduated 
college this past year are facing over $35,000 in student debt 
on average. Additionally, over 40 million American college 
students and graduates now collectively owe $1.2 trillion in student debt, which is more than twice as much as in 2009.
A.S. Vice President of External Affairs Krystl Fabella told 
the Guardian that these numbers sparked a discussion about 
the current state of affairs regarding education.
“When UC tuition has more than tripled since 2000, 
when nationwide student loan debt is $1.35 trillion, when 
excess administrative spending is $1.1 billion, when campus 
workers receive less than a livable salary, we are forced to ask 
what is happening to higher education, ” Fabella said. “While 
demands seem extreme, in the grand scheme of things, 
students are participating in a movement to resist what is 
happening to higher education today. ”
A.S. President Dominick Suvonnasupa also expressed 
support for the movement and said the burden of student 
loans needs to be addressed now more than ever.
“I am extremely proud that our students are organizing 
to shed light on this very serious issue, Suvonnasupa told the 
Guardian. “It is time for us as students to critically examine 
what is going on financially in higher education. It is time 
for us to speak out about our lack of support and it is time 
for California to realize that university students are the most   B Y  KRITI  Sarin    News EditorCampuses to 
Enroll 10,000 
More Calif. 
ResidentsUC SYSTEM AROUND CAMPUS
The Board of Regents will 
vote whether or not to 
approve the proposal at 
their meeting this Thursday.
BY   J a c ky   t o
Associate News Editor
See ENROLLMENT , page 3The UC Office of the President 
announced its proposal to increase 
enrollment of California residents 
at UC campuses by a total of 10,000 
students over the next three years 
last week. The plan would begin by 
enrolling 5,000 additional students 
for the next school year and 2,500 
students for each of the following 
two years.
UC President Janet Napolitano 
stated in a Nov. 9 press release that 
the  plan is consistent with the 
university’s focus on expanding 
accessibility to education.
“The University of California is 
meeting the challenge of educating 
as many students as it possibly can 
to meet, and solve, the challenges of 
the future, ” Napolitano said. “We are 
committed to sustaining increased 
access to our campuses and the 
world-class education they offer. ”
According to UCOP media 
specialist Kate Moser, the university 
expects the state to allocate $25 
million from its budget to finance 
the additional 10,000 students, while 
UCOP will provide an additional $25 
million of its own. It also plans on 
requesting an additional $6 million 
from the state to enroll 600 more 
graduate students next year, as well 
as increased funding and enrollment 
in the following two years. 
Moreover, the university will 
look to increase fundraising and 
tuition from out-of-state students 
to contribute to the enrollment 
boost. Another aspect of the 
proposal has the university cutting 
the scholarships it provides to low-
income students from other states, 
saving approximately $36 million 
annually. However, this would 
not affect students who currently 
receive that aid.
A.S. Vice President of External 
Affairs Krystl Fabella, who disagreed 
with the initial announcement to 
merely increase in-state enrollment 
by 5,000, believes that the UC 
campuses lack the infrastructure 
necessary to add any more students. 
UCOP , she argued, should prioritize 
fixing this deficiency before 
increasing enrollment. 
“It was already shocking at 5,000, ” 
Fabella told the UCSD Guardian. 
“ Any student on the ground dealing 
with these daily struggles will know 
that our campus is not ready to take 
on even 1,000 more students by Fall 
2016. It’s simply unrealistic. If the 
Regents and President Napolitano 
are able to take on the initiative to 
bring in 10,000 more students, they 
can very well map out a plan to 
improve conditions for the 240,000 
existing ones. ”Congressmen Host Student Town Hall Meeting
UCSD was the ninth college visited in the Future Forum congressional discussion series.See MARCH , page 3
See  FORUM , page 2UCSD
BY   O m k a r   M a h a j a n
Staff WriterPhoto by Christian Duarte /UCSD Guardian2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 16, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
A COUPLE OF DERPS By Elyse Yang
REGISTER ONLINE AT AS.UCSD.EDU/SAFERIDESRegistration for FALL QUARTER IS NOW OPEN!
A.S. Safe Rides allows registered undergraduate students 
to get 3 FREE rides per quarter. Students MUST
register at least 24 hours prior to their ﬁrst ride. A.S. SAFE RIDES 
@asucsdThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian 
is not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts 
or art. The views expressed herein do not necessarily 
represent the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University 
of California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian 
is funded by advertising. Aleya beat JGao in arm wrestling. 
Not. Even. Close.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Marketing Director
Laura Chow
Associate Marketing Director
Peter McInnis
Training and Development Manager
Cedric Hyon
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Vincent Pham
Rosina Garcia
Tina Butoiu
Kriti Sarin
Jacky To
Cassia Pollock 
Marcus Thuillier
Allison Kubo
Kyle Somers
Karly Nisson
Brittney Lu
Olga Golubkova
Jonathan Gao
Megan Lee
Joselynn Ordaz
Sherman Aline
Elyse Yang
Christina Carlson
Jennifer GrundmanEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
 
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
Associate Features Editor
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Sherman Aline, Allison Kubo
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim
Editorial Assistants
Sage Schubert Christian, Katie Potts, Christian DuarteResearchers at UCSD have 
recently published a study 
suggesting that people envy those 
most similar to them and that the 
objects of their envy change with 
age. Their findings were published 
in the journal Basic and Applied 
Social Psychology on Nov. 4.
UCSD graduate student and 
co-author of the study Nicole 
Henniger told the UCSD Guardian 
that people were more likely to envy 
those who were alike in age and 
gender than those who were not.
“These studies looked at whom 
people envy and are envied by,” 
Henniger said. “We found that 
people tend to envy same-gender, 
similar-age [people] and that being 
close to someone doesn’t necessarily 
protect against being envied. ”  
In conducting their study, the 
researchers looked at over 2,000 
participants who could recall 
instances and experiences of envy. They found that young people tend 
to be more frequently envious than 
their older counterparts. 
“We found that more of the 
younger participants could recall an 
envy experience — fewer of the older 
participants could recall recently 
having experienced envy, ” Henniger 
said. “This suggests that, like other 
negative emotions, older people are 
less likely to experience envy. ”  
Psychology professor and senior 
author of the study Christine Harris 
also told the Guardian that what 
people envied depended on their age.
“One of our findings was that 
young people were not only more 
likely to report experiencing envy 
but that they were also envious of 
a greater number of things such as 
scholastic success, social success, 
looks and romantic success, ” Harris 
said. “Older people’s envy tended to 
hone in more often on money and 
occupational success. ”
UCSD psychology department 
chair Victor Ferreira thinks that 
people’s objects of envy are reflective 
of what they value. “I think it’s a nice insight to see that 
younger folks tend to envy people’s 
looks and school performance, 
whereas older folks tend to envy 
people’s occupations and finances, ” 
Ferreira said. “If you assume that 
young people tend to value looks 
and school performance a lot and 
older people tend to value jobs and 
finances, then it suggests that our 
envy is about things we value. ”
Ferreira likened envy with 
competitiveness in sports to 
demonstrate how envy can be a 
positive force.
“If you’re a UCSD basketball player, 
it makes sense for you to envy your 
teammate — someone who is similar 
to you — because that may make it 
more likely that you’ll up your game 
and become a better basketball player, ” 
Ferreira said. “It doesn’t make sense 
to envy LeBron James, because you’ll 
never be as good as LeBron James. It 
looks like that’s how envy works. ”
UCSD’s psychology honor society 
president Shuying Y u also thinks that 
envy can be helpful but cautions that it 
can be a distraction. “Envying others for what you 
lack in grades can be somewhat of 
a good thing if it motivates you to 
study more, ” Yu said. “But I think 
comparing yourself, your progress and 
your experiences to other people in the 
long run can distract you from your 
personal goals and why you want to 
strive for those goals in the first place. ” 
Furthermore, Henniger and her 
team hopes to continue their studies 
to figure out causal factors that spark 
envy. They are looking to expand 
their research by examining the types 
of behavior that accompanies envy.
“We would like to use this 
research to identify factors that 
make envy more likely and test 
those factors in lab experiments, ” 
Henniger said. “We are also 
interested in the different types 
of behaviors associated with 
envy, which can include hostility, 
depression and the motivation to 
self-improve. ”SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
Study Suggests Older People Experience Envy Less Frequently
Researchers surveyed over 2,000 individuals from ages 18 to 80 and found that individuals envy those similar to them.
BY   A n d r e w   C H a o
Staff Writer 
andrew  chao  avchao@ucsd.edu readers can contact
businesses and startups they wanted 
to create. However, they had concerns 
about how student loans and debt 
could prevent them from achieving 
their dreams. 
Peters agreedmentioned that some 
students, like those who spoke, are unable to pursue their ideas because of 
debt and that this negatively impacts 
the economy.
“Students at universities in San 
Diego and across the country have 
creative and new ideas that they want 
to turn into innovative products, ” 
Peters said. “Unfortunately, many 
students burdened by student loan 
debt and facing competitive job markets abandon entrepreneurship, 
which is harming our economy and 
our ability to compete in the global 
marketplace. ”
Eleanor Roosevelt College junior 
William Wylie-Modro described to the 
Guardian how he felt that the town hall 
meeting shows that the government is 
concerned about students.
“The fact that the congressmen are sitting down and talking to the 
next generation about the problems 
we can see in society shows that at 
least part of the government realizes 
the major dangers of student debt and 
the accelerating change of the climate, ” 
Wylie-Modro said.
omkar  mahajan  omahajan@ucsd.edu readers can contactPeters and Swalwell Discuss How Student Loan Debt Discourages Young Entrepreneurs
▶ FORUM,  from page 1Fabella stated that the university 
cannot continue to squeeze more 
students into its limited number 
of dorms and apartments. 
Furthermore, the amount of 
resources available to each student 
will naturally suffer with there being 
more students to accommodate.
“It’s not just new dorm beds 
and classes that would need to 
be factored in, ” Fabella said. “It’s 
literally everything that will be 
aggravated even more with the 
enrollment: student-to-teacher ratio, 
overwhelmed TAs, housing, parking, 
etc. This will prove to be way more 
costly, with all the elements that 
would go into it. ”
Moser told the Guardian that her 
office will address Fabella’s concerns 
after the UC Regents approve the 
proposal at their Nov. 19 meeting, 
stressing that the university has overcome problems as difficult as 
these in the past.
“Once the plan is approved, as we 
hope it will be, we will get down to 
the job of working out the logistics, ” 
Moser said. “We plan to put in place 
the needed infrastructure on our 
campuses to support the increased 
numbers of undergraduates. Such a 
quick surge in enrollment is certainly 
a challenge, but the University of 
California is accustomed to meeting 
challenges. ”
UCSD Associate Vice Chancellor 
for Academic Affairs Barbara Sawrey 
expressed her support for UCOP’s 
goal to educate as many students as 
possible, believing it to be crucial to 
the future state of the world.
“[UCSD] supports the [UC] 
Office of the President’s plan to 
enroll 10,000 additional California 
undergraduates over the next three 
years, ” Sawrey told the Guardian. 
“It is [UCSD’s] mission to educate California’s diverse population, as it 
is vital not only for the state’s and 
the nation’s economic growth, but 
for the intellectual development of 
future generations who can help solve 
globe’s most pressing problems. ”
Speaker of the California State 
Assembly Tony Atkins also praised 
the plan, emphasizing the need of 
improving access to higher education 
for California residents. 
“When the Assembly conducted 
our in-depth review of the University 
of California this year, it was clear 
that the university can and should do 
a better job fulfilling its mission to 
educate California students, ” Atkins 
said in an Oct. 22 press release. 
“President Napolitano’s comments 
suggest [the University of California] 
has accepted this challenge. ”important investment and resource 
that this state has. ”
Moser commented that the UC 
system already strives for college 
affordability, but the system can still 
improve upon its methods.
“ At the University of California, 
57 percent of California students 
have their tuition fully covered, and 
45 percent of UC undergraduates 
graduate without any student loan 
debt; those who do graduate with 
student loans have a lower average 
debt than the national student 
loan debt average, ” Moser told the 
Guardian. “That said, there is always 
progress to be made, and again, we 
support increased funding for public 
higher education. ”
Last month, UC President Janet Napolitano implemented the first 
phase of her three-year Fair Work, 
Fair Pay plan and raised the University 
of California minimum wage to $13 
per hour, with an eventual increase 
to $15. However, this wage increase 
will not affect student employees, who 
work under 20 hours a week and are 
therefore ineligible for the plan.
Campuswide Senator Ryan Perez 
told the Guardian that while more 
students could have participated in 
today’s march, it was still an impressive 
show of solidarity for students who 
face these issues across the country.
“It was moving to see so many 
students willing to participate, but also 
a little disheartening that more students 
didn’t identify with the struggle, ” Perez 
said. “However, in light of the success of 
student movements across the nation, 
I am proud to stand in solidarity with all students who struggle for access to 
higher education. ”
Students marched from the Silent 
Tree in front of Geisel Library down 
to Library W alk, walked through Price 
Center and circled back to the Silent 
Tree. They chanted, “If education is 
your mission, stop raising our tuition” 
and “We see students, ‘UC’ profits. ”
UC Student-Worker Union San 
Diego, Tritons for Bernie Sanders, 15 
Now San Diego, Socialist Alternative 
at UCSD and Students for Free Tuition 
sponsored the rally at UCSD. Event 
organizers will be hosting a discussion 
at Price Center next Thursday to 
brainstorm future rallies and steps to 
raise awareness.
Additional reporting by Jacky To.NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 16, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
Event Organizers to Host Follow-Up Discussion This Thursday
Moser: UC System Will Add Necessary Infrastructure to Campuses▶ MARCH,  from page 1
▶ ENROLLMENT,  from page 1Kriti  sarin  ksarin@ucsd.edureaders can contact
JACKY  TO    j6to@ucsd.edureaders can contactLIGHTS & SIRENSLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edu.
Saturday, Nov. 7
2:53 a.m. Welfare Check
Excessive alcohol; per CSO’s, 
intoxicated male laying in roadway, 
unresponsive. Transported to Hospital.
3:55 a.m. Citizen Contact
Subject removed window screen and 
was attempting to make entry into 
occupied residence, when he was 
stopped by an RSO. Closed by Adult 
Citation.
10:17 a.m. Welfare Check
Reporting party received suicidal text 
message from girlfriend. Transported 
to Hospital.
3:09 p.m. Citizen Contact
Report of disturbing post by unknown 
student on Twitter. Information Only.
3:48 p.m. Assist Other Agency
San Diego Police responded to 
report of sexual assault suspect being 
recognized at location. Information 
Only.
10:30 p.m. Citizen Contact
Subject with lit candle. Will Cooperate.
Sunday, Nov. 8
3:10 a.m. Drunk in Public
Per Resident Advisor, student passed 
out in kitchen, subject woke up 
and walked out. Referred to Student 
Conduct.
Monday, Nov. 9
12:56 a.m. Medical Aid
Y oung adult female with broken toenail, causing her to feel faint and 
dizzy. Medical Aid Refused.
3:25 a.m. Person Down
Male on ground just before entrance 
to La Jolla Del Sol Apartments. Field 
Interview.
1:39 p.m. Citizen Contact
Reporting party seeking advice, due 
to estranged husband that has been 
following her and has threatened to 
show up at her work. Information 
Only.
Tuesday, Nov. 10
2:00 - 3:00 p.m. Battery
Victim was intentionally shoved to the 
ground by suspect during a chemistry 
lab. Report Taken.
8:23 p.m. Smoke Check
Passerby reported steam or smoke 
coming from refrigeration unit. 
Referred To Other Department.
8:51 p.m. Medical Aid
Adult female having allergic reaction 
to prescribed medication. Transported 
To Hospital.
Thursday, Nov. 12
10:31 p.m. Chemical Spill
Nitrogen tank leaking. Referred To 
Other Department.
— KARLY NISSON
Contributing Writer
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGsee more at4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 16, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CASSIA  POLLOCK
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
How-To 
Guru: 
Defeat the
Aliens
While looking at the starry sky a 
fortnight ago, some of us were treated 
to an extra special streak of lights. 
The official story shepherded us into 
believing this event was the work of 
a routine missile test scheduled by 
the so-called Navy. Go ahead and 
stick with the herd of sheep, if that 
makes life easier. Or, you could be a 
thinker, like the How-To Guru, who 
is able to comprehend alien activity 
at its most obvious. Enjoy this 
handy-dandy guide on how to think 
like a true intellectual and spot all 
signs of UFOs.
Step 1: Don’t trust the 
government. Even seemingly regular 
things, like jet planes, often release 
toxic bursts of radiation to devour 
our brains with alien mind control. 
Always make sure to wear your hat to 
keep the radiation from controlling 
your thoughts. Although any kind of 
metal will work, we do recommend 
tinfoil for its cheap and easy 
construction. Plus, it has a stylish, 
classy look that will make you the 
envy of everyone.
Got your new, shiny hat nice and 
snug? Good, then it’s time for Step 
2. Start recognizing all the aliens 
among us in our everyday lives. 
UFOs, much like the noble cow, tend 
to hang around crop fields. Head out 
to your local farm and plop yourself 
down in the middle of the field and 
wait. If, for some odd reason, you 
don’t see one on your first day, you 
might have to come back the next 
day or perhaps each following day 
for a month.
Step 3: Go ahead and journey 
back to the city where you can 
resume your hunt for extraterrestrial 
life forms. Pay attention to 
everyday occurrences and question 
everything. It’s well known that 
aliens are big baseball fans who love 
to share and collect memorabilia, 
as some lucky residents recently 
found out when 600 Padres 
bobbleheads were mysteriously 
abandoned at their doorstep, as 
reported by NBC 7. While these 
poor people sheepishly took the bait 
and distributed these bobbleheads 
(a.k.a. alien spy-cams) out to their 
neighbors as party favors, you should 
know better than that.
Obey these final steps to stop 
the aliens and, therefore, rescue 
humanity. Spend time routinely 
monitoring your neighbors’ activities 
with binoculars or a telescope to 
figure out if they’ve been possessed. 
Last but not least, take a bat and 
destroy all the bobbleheads you 
can — they are pure evil. After a few 
sleepless nights, the city will be safe, 
thanks to your relentless mission to 
defeat the aliens. Just be mindful to 
keep a low profile (perhaps wearing a 
mustache disguise in public). Should 
one of the UFOs turn your way, it 
might leave a dangerous little gift by 
your doorstep.
If all this sounds like a little too 
much work for you, that’s perfectly all 
right. We get it. Put this guide down 
and go back to floating along like a 
mindless sheep for the rest of your 
pathetic life. Although living like that 
would be inconceivable for thinkers 
such as us, not everyone can achieve 
heroic perfection and brilliance.The Privilege of  Higher Education is 
Not an Unequivocal “Right”
QUICK TAKESIN LIGHT OF THE MILLION STUDENT MARCH, WE CONSIDERED THE PLANS OF VARIOUS POLITICIANS 
REGARDING STUDENT DEBT. IS THE POSSIBILITY OF UNIVERSALLY FREE EDUCATION A FEASIBLE PLAN?Drones. They may sound like flying lawnmowers, but drones are 
becoming more prevalent within society, to the degree where they can no 
longer be ignored. CBS News reported, “ According to the Federal Aviation 
Administration, more than 650 pilots have reported seeing unmanned 
aircraft as of Aug. 9 this year, compared to a total of 238 such sightings for 
all of 2014. ” While ushering a new aerial perspective to both filmmakers 
and photographers, drones have also created safety risks, from disturbing 
the flight of commercial aircraft to obstructing the firefighting efforts of 
first-responders. This is especially pertinent in California, with the ongoing 
drought and yearly wildfire season. In an effort to combat these issues, the 
United States government has issued new laws and restrictions regarding 
drone use to help limit these accidents. But how is this legislation going to 
create a safer atmosphere for both drone owners and the community, and 
how will it affect everyone’s privacy?
The new legislation requires that all drones be registered with the 
government. Much like car registration, drone registration will help ensure 
accountability and hopefully discourage illegal and unsafe flying practices. 
While drone registration will help to crack down on the infringement of 
privacy, these laws will require much more fine-tuning and calibration, 
just as drones do before flight. Situations such as how to hold owners 
accountable for flying their drones too close to commercial planes will only 
increase in urgency. Since the current registration process for Unmanned Aerial Vehicles is 
paper-based, the Department of Transportation is attempting to transition 
to an electronic registration system, as reported the U.S. Government 
Publishing Office. Most likely, laws stipulating the maximum altitude 
drones can fly (around 400 feet) and requirements that drones are kept 
within the controller’s eyesight will also be established. More details will be 
released on Nov. 20 when the new UAV registration task force finalizes its 
recommendations to the Department of Transportation. 
Beyond registration, a method of identifying drones and their owners 
must be established, or else most drone offenses, like hit-and-runs, will 
never be brought to justice. This is especially true if drone operators simply 
whisk their drones away from the scene of the crime. In addition, various 
types of drones should have different license requirements and processes, 
much like the different licenses available for motor vehicles ranging from 
motorcycles to trucks. 
Furthermore, the widespread popularity of drones raises issues of 
privacy. Due to the altitude drones are able to reach and their wide field of 
view, the footage recorded from the drone may include individuals who do 
not wish to be recorded. As a byproduct of laws regulating where drones 
can be flown, most drone owners should be flying in desolate fields away 
from crowded cities, eliminating chances of an infringement of privacy. 
But there will always be those who purchase drones to spy on others. 
See DRONES, page 5
In an election full of unconventional 
contenders rising in the polls, it has become 
clear that Americans want change. So it comes as 
no surprise that Bernie Sanders, “an ex-hippie, 
septuagenarian socialist, ” as described in the 
W ashington Post, is one of the frontrunners 
as the Democratic nominee for the U.S. 2016 
Presidential Election. Sanders has defended his 
democratic socialist perspective by emphasizing 
the “democratic” part of that phrase, according 
to the New Y ork Times. Most importantly, his 
extremely leftist plans for universally free public 
education offer viable solutions to student debt.
Though critiqued as idealistic and expensive, 
Sanders’ platform has gained support from 
college students around the nation who seek 
change, as seen by Thursday’s Million Student 
March, which advocated for tuition-free public 
college, cancellation of all student debt and 
a $15-an-hour campuswide minimum wage. 
Bernie Sanders incorporates the demands of 
students into his platform, and the issues he 
fights for are relevant to the working class.
His taxation plans call for universal action 
and the growth of the middle class. Sanders once 
described himself as having the most unusual 
political history of anybody in the U.S. Congress, 
and that just might be a defining factor for his 
popularity. Publicly funded college education is 
possible, obliteration of student debt is possible 
and a campuswide minimum wage increase is 
possible. The support for the movement is clearly 
pervasive. Education is a right, and the Million 
Student March and Bernie Sanders’ platform 
represent just that.
                        — AARTHI VENKAT  
                              Contributing WriterBernie Sanders Will Fight On 
Behalf  of  College Education
When college tuition has steadily risen 200 
percent at some schools, according to College 
Board, it’s quite clear that student debt has 
become a national problem. USA Today reported 
that $1.2 trillion in student debt is hamstringing 
the careers of thousands of millennials, many 
of whom find themselves stuck with exorbitant 
interest rates. Is this the American Dream?
According to CNN, Bernie Sanders’ plan 
promises that, for every dollar each state spends 
on higher education, the federal government 
would put in $2 as additional funding. Sanders’ 
plan largely relies on increased taxes from W all 
Street and corporations to generate $300 billion 
a year; however, this number has repeatedly been 
shown to be infeasible. Actual estimates from 
CNN put the income from Sanders’ tax increases 
around $51 billion, which is tiny compared to the 
$750 billion Sanders wants to spend. His plan is 
not realistic, given these numbers.
Hillary Clinton’s plan, on the other hand, is 
far more realistic in a bipartisan Congress. While 
Sanders failed to attract even a single cosponsor 
on his bill for free tuition, according to Congress.
gov, Clinton wants to expand accountability 
through a bipartisan proposal that would require 
colleges to pay a portion of defaulted student 
loans, and she’s pushing for more money to be 
spent on low- and middle-income students who 
traditionally bear the brunt of student debt. 
According to the W ashington Post, Clinton’s plan 
is estimated to cost $350 billion, half of what 
Sanders has proposed for largely similar results. 
When compared side-by-side, it’s clear that 
Clinton’s plan is far superior for helping students. 
     
                                     — NATE W ALKER  
                                              Contributing WriterHilary Clinton Offers More 
Realistic Alternative to Sanders
Students at campuses across the nation have 
begun to rally against rising college tuition, 
claiming that higher education is a “right” for 
everyone. This idea may sound nice in theory, but 
it cannot be applied practically. When you look 
at the numbers behind our broken college system 
right now, reforms for free education are both 
economically impossible and out of touch with 
the needs of the American population.
One of the demands of the Million Student 
March, according to its Facebook page, is a free 
college education for all, a demand that is echoed 
in the presidential platform of Democratic 
candidate Bernie Sanders. According to the 
W ashington Post, Sanders’ higher education plans 
claim that raising taxes is the only way to fund 
this initiative. Y et in a nation polarized over every 
issue, it is unlikely a measure like that could be 
agreed upon. 
In the U.S. there is a wariness toward paying 
for other peoples’ services, especially if it doesn’t 
seem worth it. For example, Tom Lindsay argued 
to Forbes that low graduation rates and post-grad 
unemployment stats indicate that some students 
are better off pursuing career-oriented training 
instead of a college education. In light of such 
information that shows college doesn’t always pay 
off, paying higher taxes for it is a difficult sell.
With the increasing commercialization of 
higher education and the decline of a traditional 
liberal education, the benefits of “college for 
everyone” need to be questioned. At this point, 
making college free won’t solve all of our 
problems and will only create more economic and 
social stress.
                                  
                                   — SOPHIE OSBORN  
                              Contributing WriterILLUSTRA TION   B Y  EL Y SE  Y ANG
The U .S. government is requiring all drones to be registered, in an 
effort to combat safety and privacy issues posed by UAVs. B Y  ALEXANDER  CHEN  Contributing Writer
ILLUSTRA TION   B Y  ALEX  LIANG
Drone
InvasionOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 16, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
TRITON
PANTRYFOOD
location: Original Student Center
email: foodpantry@ucsd.edu
phone: (858) 534-5694The mission of the Triton Food Pantry is to provide a discreet 
service to UCSD students in need of food. Our goals are to 
ensure that every student has enough energy to get through 
the day and that no student needs to give up a single meal 
for any reason. We aim to build a network of resources and 
awareness about food insecurity.
Hours subject to change in future quarters.Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri
9am–1pm 3pm–6pm 3pm–6pm 9am–1pm 9am–1pmFall Quarter Hours:
WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
Despite Safety Concerns, Drones Offer Endless Opportunities for InnovationLETTER  TO  THE  EDITOR
The amount of waste produced 
by students in dining halls, Price 
Center and markets on campus is 
a growing problem. Not only does 
waste from the paper, plastic and 
other food trays and plates increase 
the overall yield of environmental 
waste from the university but also 
for the world. Is there more that 
the university can do to maintain 
an environmentally friendly and 
sustainable environment?
Reducing trays and plates that 
go in the trash after each use 
around campus and replacing them 
with reusable ones will decrease the amount of waste that UCSD 
produces. It will also reduce costs 
because these one-time-use trays 
and plates will not need to be 
purchased but rather an initial 
purchase of reusable ones — nor 
created in the first place — thus 
reducing the use of non-reusable 
resources. This transition from 
one-time-use products to reusable 
ones will grow UCSD’s sustainable 
community and encourage 
protection of the environment to 
supply a cleaner, longer lasting 
place for individuals to live.
You r s  s i n c e re l y,
Anna Ward
Sixth College, Freshman
Regarding your editorial (“The 
Pros and Cons of Big Business 
Dominating Price Center, Oct. 29, 
2015), if we hope to support local 
businesses by giving them space on 
campus, University Centers needs to 
step up and enforce a minimum level 
of quality. Although I normally go out 
of my way to shun the chains, I must 
admit that their presence at UCSD 
has meant a step up for students’ 
mealtimes. I have been on campus 
long enough to remember the Tia 
Molly’s that Rubio’s replaced, as well 
as the Chinese fast food joint she 
ran (subsequently replaced by Panda 
Express). Sorry to say, but there was 
little worth eating at those stands, 
with the possible exception of its 
fusion Moo Shu Burrito. Panda’s food 
may not be truly Chinese, but they do 
use quality ingredients, leading to the 
long lines that form daily.
Even today, it’s the locally run 
places like Shogun, Hi-Thai and Bombay Express that take advantage 
of having a monopoly by foisting 
subpar ingredients on the student 
population. The big advantage of the 
chains is that they won’t adjust their 
processes and sell students an inferior 
product just because they could. I 
love Thai food, but I have given up on 
Hi-Thai, for example, after biting into 
too many pieces of bland mystery 
cartilage, and the pre-formed chicken 
cubes used by Bombay Express have 
turned me off from campus Indian 
food.
Thanks to their monopoly 
positions, revenues at such places 
may be meeting University Centers’ 
goals but leaving them with less-
than-happy customers. By working 
with these entrepreneurs, perhaps 
University Centers can increase their 
revenues and make for a better dining 
experience at the same time before we 
have to bring in even more chains.
Jimmy Gottlieb
Concurrent Enrollment StudentUniversity is Wasteful, 
Harming the Environment
Local Businesses Serve 
Slop; Prefer Corporations
Additionally, they should ideally be 
flown on private property in which 
invasion of privacy is no longer an 
issue, or in public spaces where the 
expectation of privacy is very low. 
At this point, some people may be 
tired of technology experts constantly 
droning on and on about new rules 
and regulations, so let’s move on to 
the real life applications of drones. 
Beyond taking cool aerial selfies to 
get likes on Facebook, drones have a 
multitude of applications, of which 
we’ve barely scratched the surface. 
Big tech companies, such as Amazon 
and Google, are discussing a new era of shipping materials using drone 
technology like Google’s Project 
Wing, according to the Wall Street 
Journal. A researcher at UCSD’s Calit 
2, who is a member of Engineers 
for Exploration, said that drone 
technology is currently being used 
to help archaeologists scan for 
Mayan ruins and is also being used 
by biologists and conservationists 
to find harpy eagles. While it has 
taken around a century to develop 
autonomous cars, it has only taken 
a decade to develop drones with 
autonomous capabilities. Companies 
such as 3DR are making drones with 
pre-coded aerial maneuvers designed 
for users who want high-quality aerial footage without professional training. 
While many people will not go 
out and purchase drones in the near 
future, everyone should be mindful 
of integrating drones safely into our 
lives, especially as they continue to 
increase in popularity. Important 
problems, such as their interference 
with law enforcement, fire-fighting 
efforts and their potential invasions of 
privacy must not be underestimated. 
Perhaps in the near future, instead of 
looking for cars when crossing the 
road, we might look up at a sky full 
of drones and hear others complain 
about the hassle of registering their 
drones with long wait times and 
service even worse than at the DMV .▶ DRONES,  from page 46 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 16, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
ALLISON  KUBO
features@ucsdguardian.org
Q & A 
with Duf Sundheim 
The UCSD Guardian sat down with Republican U.S. Senate candidate George “Duf” Sundheim and got his view and plans for 
college affordability, immigration reform and Citizens United. By Allison Kubo //Features Editor
DUF : Y ou’re right, it won’t be there. I think there’s been a lot of talk about privatizing social security, and in places where they have been able to do that, such 
as Chile, they’ve seen success with privatization. Americans want to know that that money will be there. What the government has done has been criminal, and 
the people who are responsible for the management of social security have done a great disservice to the American people. They actively misled the public as 
to what is going on with that system, and it’s been going on for way too long. It’s going to require an honest discussion of that problem, and the surest way to 
prevent a solution from being found is to not involve people. In San Jose, we worked with the people and eventually came up with a pension plan that 70 percent 
of people supported, and at the end of the day, it will save the people of San Jose one billion dollars. G: We would like to focus on issues pertinent to students, 
so let’s get right into it. How do you feel about student loans, 
such as the Perkins Loans?
DUF : In respect to affordability, we are way too dependent 
on loans. Loans are particularly harmful to the middle class. 
One of the main issues is, we are increasingly finding ways 
to provide scholarships for people in low [incomes] and 
people with high [incomes] are able to pay but people in 
the middle are getting squeezed. We need to provide loans 
where necessary but we have to focus on affordability. In a 
society, where we’ve had incredible disruptive technology, 
the education system has too much in common with the 
education system of 300 years ago. Whether it’s college 
affordability or other issues, we need to make room for 
innovation. We need to drastically upgrade and update our 
systems. The answer isn’t better loan programs the answer is 
more affordable colleges. 
G: What would you do to make college more affordable?
DUF : I’m deeply concerned about what we are doing to people your age is we keep coming up with great programs that we will be left paying for $20 trillion 
in debt. I think we need to fundamentally address the way we provide education. What is the quality and cost? Should we be looking at online classes? What is 
the role of four-year education? Especially in California, people aren’t getting a college degree in four years, they are taking five or six. Looking at the number 
who start and the number who graduate, the percentage that have to drop out because of economic reasons is way too high and people are dropping out. 
Why not have more classes online and have more accountability? Looking at the UC system,  the pension, the retirement system for professors and staff is not 
sustainable. It’s not just one problem and one thing will solve it, we need to look at [the education system] in a fresh light. G: Would you try to encourage cut back on the bureaucratic 
side of large universities?
DUF : Administrative cost continues to rise but outside 
of academia the administrative cost is going down 
because of technology. Where is the disconnect? Where 
is the added value where is the accountability? I think it 
needs to be going the other way. We need to sit down and 
look at it. We need to make an effort to put more funds 
in the classroom, my approach is to make a commitment 
and get people in the room who are smarter than I am 
and have the resolve to stay with this until we get the 
changes we need. We have to start out with our number 
one priority but too often the number one priority isn’t 
students. We have an academic industrial complex more 
concerned on its perpetuation than the students. G: Y ou mentioned that you’re 
going to help with unemployment 
through encouraging businesses to 
work with universities and through 
preparing people to go into the 
workforce. At UCSD, we have a 
pretty big engineering department 
and it seems that we’re generally 
prepared, through rigorous classes, to 
go into the workforce. And we work 
a lot with businesses, for example, 
Qualcomm. The issue for them isn’t 
a lack of preparation or familiarity 
with companies, it’s that there just 
aren’t enough jobs for students out 
of college. If elected, how would you 
intend to help that?
DUF : Y ou’re right, that is a big 
issue, and I want to deal with that in 
a two-pronged way. First of all, we 
have been issuing a ton of H-1B visas 
[Temporary work visa for foreign 
skilled workers], and there’s an 
incredible demand to issue more H-1B 
visas than are available. So, at least in 
that area, we aren’t training enough 
Americans for those jobs. With respect 
to your question, I agree with you, and 
that’s why yesterday I spent a portion 
of the day talking with the president 
of a community bank. [We discussed] 
how we can revive community banks, 
because we have seen an implosion in 
community banks, which means there 
has been an implosion in the creation 
of small businesses. Those small 
businesses become big businesses. 
So if you’re looking for the engine of 
high quality jobs, historically in the 
United States it has been in the small-
business level. If you look at large 
tech companies like Google, many 
started in garages as small businesses. 
What I’m trying to say is that some 
companies that start out as small 
businesses today will be, in five or 10 
years, the ones looking to hire students 
out of college.G: What are your thoughts on Citizens United and 
campaign finance reform?
DUF : I think that’s one of the largest threats to our 
democracy, that a small group of wealthy people have 
such a large impact on the political process, and I want 
to seriously look at what kind of alternatives we can 
come up with to our [current] system. If you look at the 
Republican CNBC debate, there are some stations that 
appear to have bias, and when you look at Tim Russert 
or Chris Matthews or George Stephanopoulos, you see 
people who have come from positions working for high-
level Democrats who find work in the media. I’m not sure 
what the exact solution is, but at the very least we need 
to admit failure and make sure that whatever money goes 
into campaigns is immediately disclosed. G: Y ou’ve expressed a need to not 
rely on social welfare programs, but to 
reform the ones we do need. Which 
ones need reforming and what would 
you do to reform them?
DUF : Specifically, a number of 
jobs programs are way too big and 
we need to retrain that focus. There 
are a few good ones, but they don’t tie 
them to jobs. They do a great job of 
training people for jobs, but jobs that 
aren’t there. When George Shultz was 
Secretary of Labor, [government job 
programs were] run in coordination 
with the businesses, so it would be like 
Boeing needs 40 people to do some 
task, and they would train people to 
do it.
There is a place for welfare too, but 
we’ve seen an explosion of the number 
of people on food stamps and that’s a 
problem.
G: What about social security? There’s been a lot of talk about how that’s been mismanaged and is soon going to run out, especially for people who are in 
college now. In all reality it’s not going to be there when we get older.With Barbara Boxer retiring and leaving her senate seat vacant for the first time in 
years, there is competition for one of the California senate seats. Though California 
is generally Democratic, candidate Duf Sundheim shows potential as a centrist 
Republican candidate and former chairman of the California Republican Party.ILLUSTRA TION   B Y   CHRISTINA  CARLSON
Check back for more Q & A ’s with congressional candidates later in the school year. FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 16, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
There are few sports that 
are as wonderfully strange 
as horseback riding. The 
average non-rider seems to believe 
riders are just sitting on their 
horses — a mirage that fades upon 
entering a horse show, where a 
motley of well-dressed riders, 
brusque trainers and numerous 
horses gather around arenas (in an 
English show) filled with jumps of 
varying heights. The strangeness, 
however, is not in the appearance: 
It’s in the core tenor of the sport, 
which balances itself between 
grit and tenderness, elegance 
and athleticism, technique and 
intuition. After all, you’re sitting on 
1000 pounds of fear and minimal 
depth perception, and you have to 
convince it to look like a ballerina 
as it soars over several poles lifted 
3.5 feet in the air. But for the 
English riders of UCSD’s Equestrian 
Team, that kind of feat is practically 
second nature. 
On Nov. 7 to Nov. 8, the team partnered with USD to host the 
Intercollegiate Horse Shows 
Association show at Del Mar 
Horsepark. A typical rider, dressed 
sharply in an English riding vest, 
jodhpurs and meticulously shined 
black boots, her hair tucked into 
a net under a helmet, gathered 
around to draw which horse 
she would ride for the day. For 
an IHSA show, the Hollywood 
sentimentalism around a specific 
horse-human bond (“Warhorse, ” 
for instance) is quickly punctured: 
Riders tend to compete on 
strangers’ horses. 
“[An IHSA show] is different 
from a lot of other shows because 
you don’t have to own your own 
horse, ” Revelle College junior Bahar 
Salehi, the team’s outreach manager, 
told the UCSD Guardian. “Every 
college brings at minimum two 
horses, and then you draw a horse 
randomly, and that’s the horse you 
happen to ride for the day. A lot of 
people like it, because it tests your skill as a rider, [and] not necessarily 
how well you and a horse know 
each other. ”
For many on the UCSD team, 
coming to UCSD meant being 
able to continue or take up riding. 
Salehi, who rode as a young 
teenager and then had to quit in 
high school, noted that people who 
want to ride often can’t because of 
difficulties getting to a stable or 
paying for lessons. But at UCSD, 
those problems are mitigated. For 
a relatively small fee, anyone can 
join the team and start riding — 
though to be able to show requires 
clearance by a coach. According 
to Salehi, the small team prefers 
this kind of informality and the 
supportiveness it fosters.
“ Anyone who has the passion for 
[riding] can join, and I feel like that 
makes our team a lot closer, because 
it’s people at all different levels, and 
we’re all helping each other — we 
don’t really have a varsity, or [junior 
RIDE 
LIKE 
THE 
WIND
by Jennifer Grundman  //Staff Writer
photos by Megan Lee/ UCSD GUARDIAN
See HORSEBACK, page 88 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 16, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
AN EVENING WITH  DAVID SEDARIS
artpower .ucsd.edu  
858.534.TIXS (8497)With sardonic wit and a 
mastery of his craft—author, 
comedian, and humorist David 
Sedaris has become one of the 
most bitingly articulate and 
satirical writers of our time.
Sunday, November 22, at 7 pm
Balboa Theatre
Downtown San Diego  
Tickets: $40–55
LECTURENOTESIS HIRING
NOTETAKERS
FOR WINTER ‘16
Pick up an application at
Lecture No tes in the
Student Center or
lecturenotes.ucsd.edu
Must have 3.0 or be tter
Earn $10.00 per hour
Appli cation & SA MPLE N OTES
     are due WEDNESDAY
           of f inals wee k
as-lecture-notes@ucsd.edu
varsity] or anything like that, ” Salehi said. “It’s just, you 
know, you ride at the level you ride at, and everyone in 
the team pushes you to improve. … The atmosphere [of 
the team] is very familial. ”
A shared love for horses unites the team members, 
who vary widely in background, race, major and 
interests. With a sport like horseback riding, which 
is practiced by a relatively small number of people, it 
is perhaps easier for the average person to miss the 
subtleties involved. 
“You and your horse are equally responsible for each 
other, and it’s definitely really unique in that you’re 
supposed to communicate with something that can’t 
actually understand your words, so you have to come 
up with a different language to speak to them in, ” Salehi 
said. “There’s definitely a major bonding, not only with 
a horse that you’ve had for years or known for years, 
but even with one that you get on for the first time 
ever. There’s a moment where you guys have to get used 
to each other, you have to learn how the horse rides 
and he or she has to learn how you ride, among other 
things. ”
According to Eleanor Roosevelt College sophomore 
and co-captain Aleena Karamally, IHSA judging is 
set up to reward a rider’s composure and technique, regardless of how the horse acts. Because of the 
unpredictable nature of the drawing, and often because 
of an individual horse’s capriciousness, the ability to 
adapt is a vital characteristic of a good rider.
“It takes a special kind of patience [to work with 
the horses], especially because we don’t know the 
horses that we’re going to ride, ” Karamally told the 
Guardian. “So you really have to be adaptable and 
flexible — sometimes you get the lesson pony who’s 
been there and done that and really doesn’t like his job, 
and sometimes you get a really nice show horse. … 
And the judges take that into consideration; they really 
do judge based on that. If they can tell that you have a 
horse that’s acting up a lot and you still ride really well, 
you can still place really well, which is something that I 
think makes IHSA really special. ”
From the acrobatics of Cavalia to the crafted cowboy 
spirit of Western riding, from dance-like Dressage to 
poised English riding, the essence of horseback riding 
is the silent coordination between horse and rider. To 
ride well requires reaching a partnership based not 
on anthropomorphization, not on sentimentalism, 
but upon appreciating the vast differences between 
humans and horses and communicating despite them.Salehi: Bond Between Horses and Riders is Integral to the Sport
Jennifer  Grundman   JAGRUNDMs@ucsd.edu readers can contact▶ HORSEBACK,  from page 7
Follow us on Twitter 
@UCSDGUARDIAN
@UCSDGUARDIANItching to Double Tap?
PHOTO BY JONATHAN GAO/ GUARDIAN
CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 16, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
ASCE PRESENTS LOSTBOYCROWTHU, 11.19 • 8pmTahrirCAMPUS
CALENDAR
NOV 16 - NOV 222015 POWERED BY THE CHANCELLOR’S OFFICE AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guardian
Calenda r
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdg uardian.orgWED 11.18 TUE 11.17
10am
ACADEMIC INTERNSHIP PROGRAM INFO 
SESSION - LITERATURE BUILDING, 2ND FLOOR, 
ROOM 210
Interested in getting hands on experience and 
receiving academic credit? The Academic Internship 
Program office (AIP) offers academic internships for all 
majors and colleges.Join us for our info session were 
we will cover the application and enrollment process 
for AIP .
11am
BODY COMPOSITION - THE ZONE
Walk in for your free analysis which includes: body 
weight, percentage body fat, total body water, and 
blood pressure. One free assessment per quarter is 
available to registered UCSD students.
12pm
ZZZS= DEGREES - THE ZONE
Learn why sleep is so important for cognitive 
performance, academic success, and overall health as 
you engage in interactive activities. Discover useful 
tips to help you get a good night's sleep. Questions? 
Contact Maria Fish
2:30pm
CAREER CHATS WITH CSC ADVISOR - THE ZONE
Chat with Roxanne Farkas, a CSC Advisor, about  
career objectives and goal setting so you can be more 
successful in obtaining your career goals
5pm
GLOBAL SEMINAR: ENLIGHTENMENT, 
REVOLUTION, AND ROMANTICISM IN 
EDINBURGH - REVELLE FORMAL LOUNGE
Are you interested in studying abroad in Edinburgh, 
Scotland next summer? Come to the info session to 
learn more about this amazing program and the 
application process!
SUN 11.22
10am
GARDEN HOURS - BEHIND LA JOLLA DANCE 
BUILDING AND CHE CAFE
Interested in growing your own food? Want to 
work toward a climate resilient future? Well come 
to RCG behind the CHE Cafe and the Dance 
Building in Revelle to learn about our agricultural 
system, integrated agriculture and much more! FRI11.20
12pm
INTERNATIONAL FRIDAY CAFE - 
INTERNATIONAL CENTER PATIO 
The Friday Cafe provides a venue where 
international and domestic students, scholars, 
faculty, staff and the local community can come 
together to celebrate cultural diversity and 
international education. Each week the Friday Cafe 
presents the opportunity to explore world cultures, 
cuisines, music and more. Join us for this unique 
international experience! 
Price: $5 per plate
8pm
THE BEAT PRESENTS: THE 8TH ANNUAL BEST 
A CAPPELLA SHOW (EVER)
It's time for The Beat @ UCSD's 8th Annual Best A 
Cappella Show Ever!! Whether you're new to the a 
cappella community or an a cappella show 
veteran, we've got some awesome new music to 
help get you out of school mode and kick off your 
break! With on/off campus groups performing with 
us and singing pop classics and top hits, this night 
is going to be one for the books! 10am
FITNESS ZONE: YOGA - THE ZONE
Yoga: This class will move from one asana (pose) to 
the next. Each class is a unique sequence of asanas. 
Classes take on a life of their own with the 
culmination of collective energy, movement and 
breath. Lead by FitLife instructor Jennie Olson Six and 
Nadine Lindseth.
12pm
WORLD AIDS DAY CRAFTING - THE  ZONE
Come to The Zone to make a bracelet to remember 
those who are currently living or who have died of 
HIV/AIDS. Questions? Contact Debbie Kim at 
deborahk@ucsd.edu.
2pm
TRITON WORLD CUP - RIMAC FIELD
All UCSD students, staff, and faculty are invited to 
compete in UC San Diego's very own Triton World 
Cup. Players compete 7 vs. 7, in a knockout-style 
tournament (of 25 minute games). Participants are 
eligible to sign up as a complete team of 9-10 
players, with a few teammates, or as individual 
players who will be assigned to a team. All players 
will receive a free t-shirt, pizza, and drinks. 
Tournament champions will receive an additional 
prize!
5pm
GLOBAL SEMINAR: CULTURE, LANGUAGE AND 
CHILD DEVELOPMENT IN ECUADOR - 
INTERNATIONAL CENTER LOUNGE
Interested in studying abroad in Quito, Ecuador next 
summer? Come to the info session to learn about the 
application process and meet Professor Alison 
Wishard Guerra who will be leading this amazing 
program! 
7pm
OUTREACH TRIVIA NIGHTS - MIDDLE OF MUIR 
(MOM)
FOOD, FACTS, FRIENDS, & FUN! Come to Home Plate 
Cafe to meet new people and test your knowledge of 
various trivia categories! Free entry to all UCSD 
students and prizes for winning team! Make this a 
weekly event and turn up the competition! Happy 
hour prices on food and drinks for trivia participants! 
All students are welcome! Come as a team or by 
yourself!THU 11.19
10am
MEDITATION - THE ZONE
Join us for a guided meditation where you can: -Gain 
greater mental clarity -Achieve a peaceful state of 
being -Learn techniques to de-stress -Achieve 
harmony amid cognitive dissonance Workshop led by: 
a UCSD Recreation Instructor
1:30pm
THERAPY FLUFFIES - THE ZONE
De-stress with certified therapy dogs at The Zone!
3pm
R&R QUAD - THE ZONE
Drop-in and get a low intensity back rub from the R&R 
Squad!
6pm
TEACHING ENGLISH AS A FOREIGN LANGUAGE 
(TEFL) INFO SESSION - UCSD EXTENSION, RM 
106
Ever thought about teaching English abroad or in the 
U.S? Want to have an adventure after graduation, see 
the world, and earn enough money to sustain yourself 
overseas? The Teaching English as a Foreign 
Language (TEFL) certificate program at UC San Diego 
will open doors to job opportunities all around the 
globe. With proper planning, students are able to 
complete the 27-unit TEFL Professional certificate 
program by the time of graduation. UC San Diego 
students are also able to take advantage of a number 
of benefits which will be discussed at the info session. 
The session will include information about the 
program, a mini grammar lesson, and a Q&A period. 
Pizza and light refreshments also provided.
8pm
ASCE PRESENTS: LOSTBOYCROW - THE LOFT
Concert at The Loft, featuring Lostboycrow! FREE for 
UCSD Undergraduates, $10 for General Admission.MON 11.16
11am
ART & SOUL: THANKFUL TREE - THE ZONE
Workshops are free; all supplies and materials 
provided. Space is limited and is first come, first 
served.
2pm
HUNGRY FOR HEALTHY: CURRIED CHICKPEAS 
W/ SPINACH - THE ZONE
Come join us as we make Curried Chickpeas with 
Spinach, hosted by the Student Health Services 
Registered Dietitian and get FREE samples! Materials 
and ingredients are provided. Space is limited, first 
come, first served.
4pm
QUARTERLY CONVERSATIONS IN GLOBAL 
HEALTH - GREAT HALL I HOUSE
Student driven discussion on the topic of HIV/AIDs.  
Topics addressed include current research in the field, 
HIV/AIDs as a global health issue, and the social 
stigmas associated. HIV/AIDs community organizations 
will be presenting their services and knowledge and 
we will have keynote speakers.
5pm
GLOBAL SEMINAR: JAZZ IN PARIS INFO SESSION 
- INTERNATIONAL CENTER OCEANID PAVILION
Interested in studying abroad in Paris next summer? 
Come to the info session to learn more about the 
application process and meet Professor Cecil Lytle 
who will be leading this amazing program!
SAT 11.21
10am
GARDEN HOURS - BEHIND LA JOLLA DANCE 
BUILDING AND CHE CAFE
Interested in growing your own food? Want to work 
toward a climate resilient future? Well come to RCG 
behind the CHE Cafe and the Dance Building in Revelle 
to learn about our agricultural system, integrated 
agriculture and much more! Open to any major or 
student. Plot rentals open to all who want to grow 
their own food. We are a Student Run garden that 
believes in sustainability. Join us every Saturday 
and/or Sunday rain or shine.
6pm
INTERNATIONAL SCHOLARS MOONLIGHT HIKE 
COWLES MOUNTAIN- OUTBACK ADVENTURES
You will be amazed at just how much the moon lights 
up the mountain on this great local adventure. Cowles 
Mountain is just 20 minutes from campus in Mission 
Trails Park. Hiking three miles in the moonlight and 
taking in the panoramic views of the skyline are great 
ways to spend a few hours away from campus.THE LOFT, PRICE CENTER
10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 16, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDS$
Gua rdian Classifieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedscrossword
Across
1 Spill catcher
4 Cornered
9 A pump lacks one
14 Sun Devils’ sch.
15 Cry of innocence
16 Hogwash
17 Strauss’s “__ Rosenkavalier”
18 Take on
20 __ artery, which supplies the kidneys
22 Tee-hee
23 Takeoff
27 Expectoration sound
28 River inlet
29 Bando of the 1960s-’70s Athletics
32 Take up
38 Like some auto engines
40 Daughter of King Minos
41 Takedown
43 Place for a stud
44 DUI’s excess
45 “Make __ Away”: Sheryl Crow song
48 Take in
53 Big name in art glass
56 Sci-fi writer Asimov
57 Takeout
61 Windy City transportation gp.
62 Union founded by Samuel Gompers, 
for short
63 Y, sometimes
64 Kenan’s TV pal
65 Kirsten of “Spider-Man”
66 Land formation named for its usual 
shape
67 Cannes condiment
Down
1 Unfair judgment, slangily
2 “Thar she blows!”
3 Peel out4 Perspective
5 Overly
6 HVAC measure
7 Band aid?
8 Brewer’s ingredient
9 Flight segment
10 Very short time
11 Lemieux’s milieu
12 It adjoins the altar
13 Rock: Pref.
19 Bearded grazer
21 Parting words
24 Dry residue from molten liquid
25 “__ a stinker?”: Bugs Bunny line
26 N.C. ’s capital
29 Gets off the point
30 First name in advice
31 Bigger than med.
33 “Skedaddle!”
34 Birdie beater
35 AK Steel Holding Corp., formerly
36 __ Grande
37 Marine combatants
38 “Nature” author’s monogram
39 Diamond stat
42 Indian bread
46 Colonel Sanders trademark
47 Prepared to be summoned
48 Light, filled pastries
49 Letter-shaped fastener
50 Fabi of racing
51 Available from Netflix, say
52 String quartet member
53 River herring
54 Vegan staple
55 Orwell’s alma mater
58 Water tester
59 Barn bird
60 Comprehendock pal
64 “Jumbo” flierBIKES
Giro bike helmet with free bike lubricant - 
$50. Getting rid of my bicycle so I’m getting 
rid of my helmet. Comes with free can of 
Fast and Easy bike chain and gear lubricant! 
$87 total value for only $50! Listing ID: 
206358545 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Thule Double Bike Rack - $100. Used one 
time. Must sell. Listing ID: 206358543 at 
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Road/Race Bike - Excellent Condition - 
$500. Selling my superb condition Road/
Trek Racing bike by NOVARA STRADA 
(an6AL 6000) series. Size 24.5” or 62 cm, 
perfect for someone who’s 5’10” or taller. It 
has front carbon fiber fork. Well maintained 
and all custom Shimano parts with a new 
Shimano SPD pedal. Hub/Chain or frame 
rust free. With all the upgrades it has about 
$2000 invested. Very lightweight. Listing ID: 
206358539 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
ELECTRONICS
Google Glass - $700. Selling my Google 
Glass. Bought it to create apps for it. comes 
with everything seen. No box. Works per -
fectly. Rare! Very cool! Original price was 
$1500. Listing ID: 206358608 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more informationPowerbeats2 Wireless Headphones - $100. 
Powerbeats2 wireless headphones. Great 
for runners, golfers, athletes, etc. Listen to 
music without the chord. Original price was 
$199. Listing ID: 206358607 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
Garmin GPS - $30. Working GPS. Much more 
reliable than the smartphones we use. 
Rugged and solid. Listing ID: 206358604 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
FURNITURE
Bedroom Set - $60. Pine bedroom set. 
Chest, drawer with mirror, two night -
stands. Comes with all drawers. Listing ID: 
206358619 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Dining room table - $600. BRAND NEW! Tags 
are still on and everything! It’s the table, 
a bench and four chairs. Unfortunately 
we’re moving and can’t take it with us. 
Just bought it a few months ago for $1500. 
Listing ID: 206358615 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Brand New Queen Mattress - $500. BRAND 
NEW. Jerome’s queen size mattress. $1000 
value. Have had it three months and it’s too 
firm for me. Listing ID: 206358612 at ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tion
tyour vision,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel to 
promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!www.ucsdguardian.org/advertising
#OMG 
#LIKE US
#FOLLOW US
@ucsdgua rdian
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
MORE INFO AT SOVAC.UCSD.EDU/REGISTER
SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 16, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
Social
Power
HourSocial
Power
Hour
FREE GAMES, MUSIC, AND FOOD!FREE GAMES, MUSIC, AND FOOD!
FIRST COME, FIRST SERVEd
FIRST COME, FIRST SERVEd
DATESDATES
AND ALSOAND ALSO
WHEN AND WHEREWHEN AND WHERE
PC COMMUTER
LOUNGE
DEC. 35PMNOV 19junior midfielder Kiera Bocchino 
sent a left-footed shot just high 
of the mark to put pressure on the 
Falcons. Sophomore midfielder 
Elisa Martinez followed up with 
two strong efforts of her own, one 
of which was narrowly deflected by 
Seattle Pacific sophomore goalkeeper 
Molly Stinson. UCSD ultimately out-
shot Seattle Pacific 12–4 on the half.
The Falcons mustered some 
strength again in the 50th minute 
when senior midfielder Isabel Farrell 
hit the target off a cross from junior 
forward Hannah Huesers, posting 
the critical insurance point for 
Seattle Pacific.The Tritons attempted to battle 
back late in the match but fell just short 
of the comeback. Bocchino tapped in 
a close-range shot off a corner kick 
from sophomore midfielder Jordyn 
McNutt in the 84th to narrow the 
deficit to one, but a last-ditch effort 
to equalize in the final seconds of the 
game came up shy of success.
UCSD senior starting goalkeeper 
Kelcie Brodsky, who has played that 
position since her freshman year, 
walked off the field after her last 
collegiate contest with 28 career 
shutouts and a school-record 386 
saves; she posted 101 stops in her final 
season as a Triton.
“I want them to reflect on what it 
took to get to this point, ” Jones said. “They came on really strong at the 
end of the season and through the 
CCAA Tournament. Y eah, we can feel 
sorry for ourselves in the moment, 
but I want them to remember the 
taste of this defeat and not want it to 
happen again. ”
The Tritons are now 23–10–3 
in their 13 NCAA Championship 
appearances and 3–3 in NCAA 
tourney games against Seattle Pacific. 
Despite the loss of star goalkeeper 
Brodsky, the Tritons will have a 
strong group of returners on the 
field to vie for the championship 
crown in their 2016 campaign.UCSD to Enter 2016 with Seasoned Group of  Returning Players 
campaign. Similarly, their previous 
14 conference wins were the highest 
the franchise has had since UCSD 
joined the CCAA back in the 2000–
01 season. 
Of the returning squad, three 
of the starters — senior forward 
Drew Dyer, junior guard Adam Klie 
and senior guard/forward Hunter 
Walker — were all named to to the 
All-CCAA Second Team last season. 
Walker and Klie led UCSD with their 
highest average points per game 
(12.3 and 12.2, respectively). Dyer 
was close behind with an average 
of 11.8 points per game and he also 
ended the season with a 0.857 free-
throw percentage. On top of these 
stats, Walker ended the season with 
54 assists, which was the team-high, 
and Klie ended the season with a 
team-high 28 steals. 
The four other returning squad 
members are sophomore guards 
George Buaku and Grant Jackson, 
junior guard Aleks Lipovic and senior forward/center Zach 
McMillan. Lipovic was also a starter, 
starting all 27 of the previous 
season’s games amongst which he 
averaged 8.1 points. McMillan was 
the Triton big-man leading the team 
with an average 5.2 rebounds per 
game and averaging 12 total blocks. 
Buaku and McMillan started last 
season for nine games, and Jackson 
started 12 games. 
Another impressive stat for the 
Tritons was that UCSD was second 
among all CCAA teams in most 
three-pointers made with a total 
of 210 last season. Lipovic was the 
highest contributor to this tally, with 
a total of 55 treys drained during 
game time. 
The Tritons have high hopes for 
the upcoming season, which they 
will be tipping-off against Winona 
State this Tuesday, Nov. 17 at 7 p.m. 
in RIMAC Arena.▶ W. SOCCER,  from page 12
Tritons Slated to Open Season at R I M AC
▶ M. BASKETBALL,  from page 12
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE/ GUARDIAN
PHOTO USED WITH PERMISSION FROM UCSD ATHLETICS DEPARTMENTSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
MARCUS THUILLIER
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 16, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
bi -weekl y
summar y
UCSD is returning all five 
of its starters on the men’s 
side, after a convincing 
season that saw them 
finish fifth in the CCAA and clinch a 
tournament berth.UCSD men’s basketball 
was picked to finish 
third by the California 
Collegiate Athletic 
Association’s annual preseason poll of 
its head coaches, with a pair of first-
place votes.
WOMEN'S  SOCCER
Seattle Pacific1 - 2
After clinching a California Collegiate Athletic Association 
tournament berth this past week, UCSD looked to 
improve on its eight-game winning streak against its 
last two opponents of the regular season. The Tritons 
saw their streak broken at Cal State Dominguez Hills 
in five hard-fought sets but rebounded the night after 
in a clean sweep of Cal State Los Angeles. UCSD, now 18–10 overall and 
14–6 in the CCAA, will play Cal State Los Angeles again on Thursday 
in the opening round of the CCAA tournament that it is hosting. 
Game One
On Friday, Cal State Dominguez Hills broke the UCSD women’s volleyball 
team’s eight-game winning streak in an exhausting five-set match at the 
Torodome. The scores of the game were 25–16, 18–25, 21–25, 25–19 and 17–15.
The Tritons’ record fell to 17–10 overall and 13–6 in the CCAA. 
It was their first loss since Oct. 10. This defeat sealed UCSD’s fate 
to be the third seed at this week’s CCAA tournament in La Jolla.
Cal State Dominguez Hills improved to 10–
17 and 8–11 as it notched its third-straight victory.
UCSD hit just .161 (61–29–199) in the game, its lowest attack percentage 
since its last loss on Oct. 10 to San Francisco State. Cal State Dominguez 
Hills hit .207 (70–25–217) and out-blocked the Tritons 13–6. The Toros 
committed 12 service errors but maintained a 6–1 advantage in service aces.
Four Tritons had at least 10 kills: senior outside hitter Danielle 
Dahle (14), junior outside hitter Meagan Wright (11), senior opposite 
Kameron Cooper (10) and sophomore outside blocker Alyssa 
McNeely (10). Sophomore libero Amanda Colla recorded a career and 
match high 30 digs, and senior setter Heidi Sierks added 51 assists.
For the Toros, sophomore outside hitter Bridget Heins 
led all players with 18 kills. Sophomore middle blocker 
Morelia Castro had eight blocks in addition to two solos. 
UCSD defeated Cal State Dominguez Hills at home back on Sept. 26. The 
Tritons’ impressive eight-match win streak was their longest since the 2013 season.
Game Two
The UCSD women’s volleyball team ended its regular season with a 
fantastic win, sweeping Cal State Los Angeles in three sets on the road. The 
scores from the Eagles Nest Arena in Los Angeles were 25–14, 25–13 and 
25–23. UCSD improved its record to 18–10 overall and 14–6 in the CCAA. 
UCSD out-blocked Cal State Los Angeles 7–0 and held its opponent to a 
.055 (24–18–110) hitting percentage. The Tritons hit .210 (41–15–124) and 
sided-out at 60 percent, while the Golden Eagles sided-out at 40 percent.
“We played a good match tonight; the team generated a lot of quality swings transitioning from defense to offense, ” UCSD Head 
Coach Ricci Luyties told the UCSD Athletics Department. “With their 
attacking, our middles really made our offense run smoothly the entire match. ”
Dahle led all players with 12.0 points on nine kills and four blocks, 
two solo, while adding 12 digs. Wright, also an outside hitter, pitched in 
11.0 points. She also had a match-high 10 kills in addition to seven digs.
Sierks was the only player with a double-double, finishing with 
28 assists and 10 digs. Colla had a match-best 19 digs, while opposite 
Cooper and middle Alyssa McNeely each had 8.0 points. Sophomore 
middle blocker Rebecca Seaberry hit .300 (5–2–10) in the middle.
Cal State Los Angeles got seven kills and 8.0 points from senior outside 
hitter Iona Lofrano and 11 digs from junior libero Chloe Clancy. The 
Tritons swept the Golden Eagles once before back on Sept. 25 at home.
UCSD is hosting the first ever CCAA Women’s Volleyball Tournament 
from Nov. 19 to Nov. 21 at RIMAC Arena. The Tritons ended the season 
third in the CCAA regular season standings and come into next week’s 
inaugural tournament as the No. 3 seed. They will play sixth-seeded Cal 
State Los Angeles again in a quarterfinal match on Nov. 19 at 7:30 p.m.
The third-seeded UCSD 
women’s volleyball team 
plays sixth-seed CSU Los 
Angeles in the first round of 
the CCAA tournament on Thursday 
at 7.30 p.m. at RIMAC Arena.
WOMEN'S
VOLLEYBALL
14 13 23
25 18 21 25 1725 25 25
16 25 25 19 15CSU Los Angeles
CSU Dominguez HillsVolleyball Ends Regular 
Season with Mixed Results
Tritons enter CCAA Championship as third 
seed after splitting the week’s matches.
Written by Dev Jain //  Staff Writer
Photo by Megan Lee3
3
5
Just days after winning its 
record ninth California Collegiate 
Athletic Association title, the 
UCSD women’s soccer team fell 
in a heartbreaking 2–1 decision to 
Seattle Pacific University in the first 
round of the NCAA Division-II 
Championship last Thursday night. 
Despite battling through heavy rain 
and 30- to 40-mile-per-hour winds 
for the duration of the contest, the 
Tritons came up just short in several 
attempts on goal, ultimately ending 
their strong 2015 campaign. Their 
record stands at 15–6–1 overall.
“We came in very confident, ” 
UCSD Associate Head Coach 
Kristin Jones told the UCSD 
Athletics Department. “Not cocky 
by any means but very confident 
and very proud of the way we’ d 
been playing over the last couple of 
weeks and still riding a bit of a high from the CCAA championships. It 
is disappointing, but I know deep 
down that every kid left everything 
they had out on that field. ”
The Falcons struck first: With the 
wind at her aid, senior midfielder 
Laura Moore fired a corner kick 
straight into the back of the net in 
the 19th minute to push her team to an early advantage. Seattle Pacific 
then proceeded to out-shoot UCSD 
by an 11–1 margin on the half.
The tides seemed to turn in 
the second half. The Tritons now 
held the wind advantage — within 
minutes of the start of the half, W. SOCCER
Tritons’ Bid for NCAA Title Ends Early
After battling wind and rain, UCSD suffers 2–1 defeat against fifth-seeded SPU.
Although the season for UCSD’s 
men’s basketball hasn’t started yet, 
things are already looking good for 
them — they were ranked third in 
the California Collegiate Athletic 
Association annual preseason 
rankings, which the CCAA released 
last Wednesday.
The annual preseason rankings 
were created from a poll of all the 
head coaches in the CCAA, and first 
place was allocated to defending 
CCAA regular-season champion 
Chico State, which made it as the top 
seed with a total of 137 points and 
eight first-place votes. Second place 
was given to defending conference-
tournament champion Cal Poly 
Pomona, which received a total of 
124 points with one first-place vote. 
UCSD, in third place, wasn’t that 
far behind Cal Poly Pomona, as it 
received 121 overall, just three less 
than the second place, but UCSD also managed to take up two first-
place points. The only other team 
to garner a pair of first-place points 
besides UCSD was Cal State San 
Bernardino with 116 overall points. 
The top four seeds were the only 
teams to receive first-place votes 
on the list. The CCAA basketball 
conference has a total of 13 teams.
With its third-place preseason 
ranking, UCSD placed the highest 
on the poll than it ever has since the 
poll was created in 2006–07 season. 
All of the starters are returning from 
the 2014–15 season, which went 
decently for UCSD. The consistency 
of the squad will only benefit UCSD, 
considering they went 16–11 overall 
and 14–8 in CCAA rankings this 
past year. With its CCAA record, 
UCSD ended the previous season 
with the fifth seed and earned a 
berth in the conference tournament. 
Also, the team’s 16-win season 
was the franchise’s highest overall 
number of wins since the 2008–09 
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE/ GUARDIANSee W. SOCCER , page 11
See M. BASKETBALL , page 11M. BASKETBALL
Tritons Ride High Hopes
UCSD picked to finish third in CCAA preseason polls.W. Basketball
M. Basketball
Swim
W. Volleyball
W. Basketball  11/17
  11/17
  11/19
  11/19
  11/20AT CSU Dominguez Hills
AT Winona State
AT A3 Performance Invitational
VS CSU Los Angeles
AT Seattle Pacific Northwest ClassicUPCOMING
UCSD
GAMES
UCSDUCSD
UCSD
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
