HALLOWEEN & THE 
SAWING MACHINE
WHILE YOU ARE STUGGLING 
MAKING A BEDSHEET GHOST 
COSTUME, THESE HALLOWEEN 
PROFESSIONALS CREATE LOW 
BUDGET MASTERPIECES  TO 
CELEBRATE THE SPOOKIEST DAY 
OF THE YEAR.
ST ANDARDIZED  TESTING
RUNNING  TO  THE  FINISHone  size  does  not  fit  all
Solid  CCAA  finishes  for  X Copinion,  P age   4
Sports,  P age  11
THURSDAY
H 75 L 59FRIDAY
H 79 L 57
SATURDAY
H 82 L 61SUNDAY
H 79 L 63
FORECAST
VERBATIM
WHEN PUBERTY ROLLED 
AROUND, MY HORMONES 
SENT SUBTLE SIGNALS FOR 
ME TO ENGAGE IN TEENAGE 
LUST. I GOT TO HOLD HANDS, 
HAVE MY FIRST KISS ON THE 
CHEEK — AND EVEN THE LIPS! 
BUT FRESHMAN YEAR SEX ED 
SHOWED ME WHAT AN STI CAN 
LOOK LIKE FIRSTHAND ...”
- Vincent Pham
BOY, INTERRUPTED
OPINION , PAGE 4
INSIDE
MEMORY LOSS  ............... 2
CORPORATE PC ............... 5
STEVE JOBS REVIEW  .......8
CLASSIFIEDS  ................ 10
W. TENNIS  ..................... 11“LIFESTYLE,  P AGE  6
Starbucks Coffee will officially open its Price Center 
location to customers on Oct. 29, showcasing a design 
aesthetic unique to UCSD.
Director of University Centers Sharon V an Bruggen said 
that at this new Starbucks, which will accept TritonCash, 
students can expect to find a place to study, charge their 
technology and appreciate student art. 
“UCAB prioritized ample seating, tables that can be 
used for studying and outlets for recharging electronics, ” 
Van Bruggen explained to the UCSD Guardian. “They 
also allocated the northwest walls for student exhibitions, 
which will be curated by our student marketing and 
programs team. ”
Starbucks comes to UCSD with the intention of 
increasing University Centers’ revenue. It is replacing Cafe 
Roma, which was struggling financially at the time of its 
closing in March 2014. 
University Centers Advisory Board Chair Claire Maniti 
disclosed that Starbucks worked in collaboration with 
University Centers to create a distinctive store location with 
a San Diegan ambience.
“When Starbucks came in, they brought us their average 
green layout. We asked them to make it feel more like UCSD. We wanted it to feel less corporate and more 
personalized, ” Maniti told the Guardian. “They worked 
with us for a few months to get that feeling down; to turn 
the average Starbucks into something more beach-themed 
and natural-feeling. ”
According to V an Bruggen, the construction process 
took nearly three months to meet both Starbucks and 
University Centers’ design criteria. 
“The design phase took a bit of time to get it just right, ” 
V an Bruggen said. “Starbucks has a specific design aesthetic, 
and University Centers has specific standards, including 
getting feedback from students. ”
Maniti added that Starbucks agreed to provide $5,000 
annually in scholarships to support student learning 
initiatives related to sustainability, recycling and community 
development. The university is currently developing the 
scholarship award process with Starbucks, which will 
involve UCAB and student representatives.
In addition, V an Bruggen added that the new coffee shop 
has provided numerous student jobs and plans to increase 
the number of staff members in the near future.
“University Centers hired 75 student baristas to operate 
the store, and we plan to hire up to 25 additional students UCSD’s Triton Food Pantry met 
and exceeded its goal of raising $7500 
last week as part of its new effort to 
provide healthier options to students. 
The organization created a Crowdsurf 
page, UCSD’s crowdfunding platform 
for students and campus projects, 
early fall quarter as part of its ongoing 
service to provide free food to students 
on-campus and have now raised $8290.
Managers of the Pantry will use 
the money from the fundraiser to 
provide fresh produce and other 
perishable items in an effort to offer 
more nutritious options for students. 
These funds will allow the Triton 
Food Pantry to cover the cost of non-
perishable goods for the entire year 
and will provide over 30,000 meals 
to students.
Triton Food Pantry student 
manager Jeremy Snyder gave a 
presentation at the Oct. 7 A.S. Council 
meeting and discussed future plans for 
the service. 
He talked about expanding the 
scope of services provided by the 
pantry, including adding a larger 
fridge, offering more perishable 
goods and possibly placing donations 
bins around campus. Snyder also 
mentioned the possibility of delivery 
options for students, a meal voucher 
program and even bringing CalFresh 
food stamps to campus. 
Snyder told the UCSD Guardian 
about his personal experiences with 
food insecurity and how that has 
motivated his work. 
“It’s important personally to me 
because I’ve had to deal with it, last year 
in particular, so I know the burden it 
can be on students and the deleterious 
effect it can have on their academic 
success and personal relationships, ” 
Snyder said. “We should be able to 
provide everything our students need 
to be successful. ”
A.S. Advisor Hayley Weddle 
explained to the Guardian how surveys 
of UCSD students indicated that many 
skipped meals in order to save money, 
thus laying the impetus for the creation 
of the food pantry. 
“The need for the resource on 
campus is significant, ” Weddle said. “ As 
recent survey data shows, 25 percent of 
UCSD students skip meals ‘somewhat’ 
to ‘very often’ in order to save money. ” 
Furthermore, Snyder disclosed that 
there are even students who consider 
dropping out because of how difficult 
it is for them to find affordable food. 
“Every week, there are students 
who tell me personally that if the 
food pantry didn’t exist, they would’ve 
dropped out of school by now because 
financial aid just isn’t significant 
enough, ” Snyder said. “So I think we 
are having a beneficial impact on 
Students and professionals gathered at the UCSD Women’s Center to discuss the imposter syndrome as part of the Ethnic 
Studies Department’s ongoing Real World Career Series. Photo by Hazel Leung/ UCSD Guardian .
Starbucks Coffee Opens at 
University’s Price Center
  B Y  Kevin Santos   CONTRIBUTING WRITERCAMPUSTriton Food 
Pantry Raises 
Funds for 
Healthy Food
Money from the Pantry’s 
recent Crowdsurf campaign 
will cover the cost of over 
30,000 student meals.
BY   A n d r e w  C h a o
Staff WriterUCSD AROUND CAMPUS
See PANTRY , page 3A California federal court ruling 
will reinforce state power over 
medical marijuana and prohibit the 
actions of the Drug Enforcement 
Administration. Instead of addressing 
medical marijuana matters with states, 
the DEA overstepped its measures by 
obstructing individual dispensaries 
and patients, as expressed by a court 
decision from Oct. 19. 
According to Senior District Judge 
Charles R. Breyer from Northern 
California, who made the ruling, the 
DEA ’s justification for past actions 
was based on a poor interpretation of 
last year’s national Rohrabacher-Farr 
Medical Marijuana Amendment. Breyer described the DEA ’s behavior 
to Time as “def[ying] language and 
logic. ” Under his ruling, the DEA 
may not handle dispensaries in 
line with state law or interfere with 
any state mandates and procedures 
on medical marijuana; that power 
belongs to the states. 
In San Diego, A Green Alternative 
was the first provider to receive a 
license to conduct medical marijuana 
dispersal and growth. It is one of only 
two dispensaries currently open in 
the city. CEO and Chairman of the 
Board of A Green Alternative Dr. 
David Blair discussed with the UCSD 
Guardian some of the problems the 
dispensary has faced, such as when it 
lost its ability to grow its commodities 
due to improper leadership by the city. However, cooperation now exists 
as the city now provides addresses to 
the dispensary where they can legally 
grow marijuana.
Blair indicated that a ballot 
initiative for next year’s elections 
provides clear evidence that the 
industry is progressing. 
“If you were to do a little 
digging, you would see how the 
law is changing from the federal 
government all the way through the 
state and local governments, ” Blair 
stated to the Guardian. “There have 
been multiple rulings now that favor 
the medical cannabis industry. In 
next year’s elections, Nov. 2016, there 
will be a ballot initiative that will ask 
the public if they favor legalizing the Judge Limits DEA Control of  Marijuana Clinics
The federal decision bars the agency from interfering with legal dispensaries.See STARBUCKS , page 3
See  MARIJUANA , page 2CALIFORNIA
BY   J u l i e  Y i p
CONTRIBUTING WRITERVOLUME 49, ISSUE 11   THURSDA Y , OCTOBER 29, 2015  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
PHOTO BY VIVAN  LUONG / GUARDIAN2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 29, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
LASER TAG!
PLAY THE GAME THAT  
WILL CHANGE YOUR LIFE...
•  Group Events  
– Fraternity  
– Sorority 
– Student Orgs
•  Huge Party Area  
to 150+ Guests
•  Thursday Night = 
“College Night”  
3rd Game Free
3146 Sports Arena Blvd.  •  San Diego, CA 92110  •  619.221.0100  
www.ultrazonesandiego.com
•  Late Night at the ZONE —  
Midnight to 2am Fri & Sat
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. We have an arm wrestling bracket set up. Winner 
gets their face affixed to the office walls.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Marketing Director
Laura Chow
Associate Marketing Director
Peter McInnis
Training and Development Manager
Cedric Hyon
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Vincent Pham
Rosina Garcia
Tina Butoiu
Kriti Sarin
Jacky To
Cassia Pollock 
Marcus Thuillier
Allison Kubo
Kyle Somers
Karly Nisson
Brittney Lu
Olga Golubkova
Jonathan Gao
Megan Lee
Joselynn Ordaz
Sherman Aline
Elyse Yang
Christina Carlson
Jennifer GrundmanEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
 
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
Associate Features Editor
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Sherman Aline, Allison Kubo
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim
Editorial Assistants
Sage Schubert Christian, Katie Potts, Christian Duarte
DO YOU TWEET? WE DO!
@UCSDGua rdianResearchers from UCSD and 
Veterans Affairs San Diego Healthcare 
System published research that shows 
that a cholesterol-binding membrane 
protein in the brain can help improve 
learning and memory functions in 
mice on Oct. 7. 
An associate professor at the 
Scripps Research Institute and co-first 
author of this study, Chitra Mandyam, 
discussed the impact of this discovery 
on age-related memory loss. 
“This is a novel strategy for 
treating neurodegenerative diseases, 
and it underscores the importance of 
brain cholesterol, ” Mandyam told the 
Scripps Institute.
According to V A researcher and 
UCSD associate professor Brian Head, researchers had discovered 
the protein-induced growths that 
improve on memory retention as part 
of an ongoing study. It took extra 
testing and research for the team at 
the V A and Scripps to find out if the 
growths served any specific function. 
Brian Head, a researcher at the V A 
and an associate professor at UCSD, 
discussed how the team progressed 
from first finding the growth to then 
testing its functions. He explained that 
the process of making the connection 
between the Cav-1 protein and 
memory loss spanned 15 years.
“Our group has been studying the 
membrane protein [Cav-1] for quite 
some time, and we had some seminal 
findings a few years ago, ” Head told 
the UCSD Guardian. “When we 
targeted this protein into nerve cells 
in cell culture, it caused the cells to 
grow and branch out and we never knew if this was a functional or just 
uncontrolled cell growth. We then 
designed an experiment ... where we 
delivered this gene into a specific brain 
region known as the hippocampus, 
which is important to memory. What 
we found was that in adult mice … 
there was a significant improvement 
in learning and remembering. ”
Head’s team believes that these 
findings can help lead to gene therapy 
that treats age-related memory loss 
and is currently testing this theory 
on mice at the V A medical center and 
Scripps Institute. 
Head added that the results of 
this research could be applied to 
human subjects in the future, but the 
team has to gather more information 
before getting to that stage.
“We probably need some more 
preclinical data showing reversing a 
disease state, which is currently what we’re working on, ” Head said. “Once 
we start showing potential reversal 
of those disease states, the next thing 
would be to gain some funding to 
support and turn this vector into a 
human grade vector that passes all 
safety guidelines … we’re thinking in 
the next five years we’ll be moving in 
that direction. ”
The research published on these 
findings concludes that these results 
and new studies will provide a path 
for researchers to find better ways 
of treating age-related memory 
loss. The team has also found that 
understanding this protein and cell 
growth could help combat memory 
loss that is caused by drug and alcohol 
abuse, in addition to affecting other 
areas of the brain.
adult use of cannabis, and that’s likely 
to pass with 60 percent in favor and 
40 percent against. ”
He continued by telling the 
Guardian that the state of California is 
working on three bills in line with last 
Monday’s ruling and the Rohrabacher-
Farr amendment. 
“A s  a  r e s u l t  o f  [ t h e  R o h r a b a c h e r -
Farr amendment], the state of 
California is working on three bills, ” 
Blair explained. “ All three bills, 
starting with AB-266, [are among] two more companion bills that the 
governor signed. They regulate the 
sale, distribution, growth, reduction — 
you name it -— of medical cannabis. 
They also understand, very likely, that 
the ballot measure will pass with flying 
colors next year. ” 
The amendment, which Congress 
passed with last year’s spending bill, 
restricts the DEA from interfering 
with state mandates over medical 
marijuana. In particular, it prohibits 
the Department of Justice from 
using any federal dollars to issue written regulations for medical 
cannabis to states. 
This bill was originally intended 
to last for one year, but a press release 
by the Drug Policy Alliance asserted 
that it may continue to in effect. 
“Congress is on the verge of 
renewing it for another year, ” the 
press release stated. “Several spending 
amendments allowing states to set 
their own marijuana policies without 
federal interference have already 
passed the U.S. House and/or the 
Senate Appropriations Committee. ”However, the amendment had 
multiple interpretations. Unlike 
some lawmakers who saw the 
amendment as confirmation of state 
government power over medical 
marijuana, the DEA construed 
it as a reason to move past state 
legislation and enforce shutdown 
on independent dispensaries. As 
a result, the department closed a 
number of California dispensaries, 
including the state’s first licensed 
medical cannabis dispensary. Drug Enforcement Agency Shut Down First Medical Marijuana Dispensary in California
▶ MARIJUANA,  from page 1AVERAGE CAT By Christina Carlson
Researchers Target Neurological Memory Loss Using Protein
The team of researchers tested the Cav-1 protein on mice and found increased cell growth in the hippocampuses.
BY   R a a h i m a  S h o a i b
Staff Writer
Raahima Shoaib rshoaib@ucsd.edureaders can contactSCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
See  MARIJUANA , page 3NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 29, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
during the winter quarter, ” Van 
Bruggen said.
The store’s general manager 
Maria Orozco has been working 
with the new employees for weeks 
to ensure that the store is successful 
and leaves a positive impression on 
the UCSD community.
“We’ve gone through two and a 
half weeks of extensive training with 
our 75 baristas, ” Orozco said to the 
Guardian. “We’ve been going over how 
we’re going to make Starbucks part of 
the UCSD campus environment and 
hold true to the Starbucks experience. ”
The new Starbucks joins other coffee carts and cafes on campus. V an 
Bruggen, however, said that it will 
not negatively impact the other coffee 
shops’ markets in the long term.
“For people who don’t have a 
coffee preference, they are likely to 
go to whichever coffee cart or cafe 
is the most convenient to them, ” 
Van Bruggen explained. “But coffee-
lovers who are devoted followers 
of a particular brand or cafe are 
likely to stay with their preferred 
coffee provider. Starbucks may pull a 
crowd for the first few weeks simply 
because it is new and different. But, 
I imagine most people will go back 
to their convenient or favored spots 
on campus. ”Sixth College junior Taylor Fewell 
said that although she plans to go to 
Starbucks, the new store will not serve 
as a replacement for Art of Espresso 
and other carts around campus.
“I probably will be going to 
Starbucks a lot because I really 
enjoy their drinks, ” Fewell told 
the Guardian. “But I’ll still go to 
Mandeville because it’s in the center 
of where all my classes are. ”
Normal operating hours will be 
Monday through Friday, 7 a.m. to 11 
p.m., Saturday, 8 a.m. to 11 p.m. and 
Sunday, 9:30 a.m. to 11 p.m.
campus but I don’t think it’s impactful 
enough yet. Our goal is to provide 
food for every student that needs it, 
and we don’t have the resources for 
that yet. ”
Several campus organizations, 
including University Centers, A.S. 
Council, the Financial Aid Office 
and the Office of Student Affairs, 
created and opened the pantry this 
past February with the purpose of 
providing food for students in need. 
Since it opened, the pantry has served 
almost 200 students per week, with 
usage increasing to 250 students per 
week during the summer months. The university has supported 
the Triton Food Pantry since its 
establishment in February by giving 
the pantry a space to use while covering 
its utilities and maintenance costs. 
“University Centers, with the 
support of the University Centers 
Advisory Board, designated a space 
at the Student Center for the pantry, ” 
University Centers director Sharon 
Van Bruggen told the Guardian. 
“Previously, the space generated 
rental income and covered its share 
of utilities, custodial and maintenance 
costs, but University Centers now 
absorbs the costs as part of our 
ongoing contribution. ” 
Additionally, the university helped provide staff and equipment 
to renovate the space and the Office 
of Student Affairs helped to cover 
construction costs and other materials. 
Aside from renovations and leasing 
space, the Triton Food Pantry also 
receives funding from UCSD and the 
University of California. The Vice 
Chancellor Student Affairs Office 
donated $50,000 to the pantry last year 
and the UC Office of the President 
provided $75,000 in funding. 
Moreover, A.S. Council allocated 
$16,400 to the Triton Food Pantry 
last year. On-Campus Starbucks to Hire 25 More Students Next Quarter
Over 250 Students Visited the Food Pantry Per Week Last Summer▶ STARBUCKS,  from page 1
▶ PANTRY ,  from page 1Kevin Santos  kksantos@ucsd.edureaders can contact
Andrew Chao  avchao@ucsd.edureaders can contact
In addition, Blair observed that 
change might also occur in California 
detention centers over a high number 
of petty marijuana-related cases. 
“Prisons are filled with minor 
marijuana drug offenders, ” Blair claimed. “That makes no sense 
whatsoever. And I believe the 
governor is going to release a 
number of minor medical marijuana 
infractions. There is no reason any 
longer to keep these people in prison 
once these laws [pass]. ”He also confirmed that he is 
not alone in his beliefs, stating 
the public as in favor of legalized 
medical marijuana. 
“The landscape has changed 
dramatically within the six years I 
have been involved with the industry, ” Blair said. “Y oung people are in favor 
of it; ill people are in favor of it. The 
general opinion of the population 
is changing. Each act Congress 
acts upon, as well as the state and 
the city, will continue to advance 
the movement and will change people’s minds because, really, there 
is no difference in what [A Green 
Alternative] dispenses in comparison 
to a pharmacy. … The pharmacy itself 
is what we modeled ourselves after. ” Blair: Population of  Californians in Favor of  Medical Marijuana Legalization is Continuously Expanding
▶ MARIJUANA,  from page 2Looking for the New 
Business Column?
Now posted every Wednesday night, after the A.S. 
Council meeting, online.
ucsdguardian.org
Julie Yip  jlyip@ucsd.edureaders can contact4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 29, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CASSIA  POLLOCK
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
 The Obama administration is finally reducing standardized testing, which is a long-
awaited step in the right direction. Despite this, public education in the United States 
will continue to fall short due to funding issues, especially in low income areas.Teaching to the Test
ILLUSTRA TION   B Y  EL Y SE  Y ANGLet’s Face 
the Taboo 
of  Sex Ed
Think back to sex ed in grade 
school — were the memories 
that just flooded to your 
mind positive? I can’t speak for 
everyone, but I can attest that my 
sex ed was by no means arousing or 
provocative in an educational way. In 
the fifth grade, sex ed involved some 
ancient VHS tapes with “doctors” 
and diagrams of the male sex organ 
where I learned that the scientific 
word for my “little bird” was “penis. ” 
When puberty rolled around, 
my hormones sent subtle signals for 
me to engage in teenage lust. I got 
to hold hands, have my first kiss on 
the cheek — and even the lips! But 
freshman year sex ed showed me 
what an STI can look like firsthand 
— definitely not a turn-on. Not 
only did it make me want to follow 
the path of celibacy by pushing 
abstinence, it did not take a second 
to teach me about consent and safe 
sex, how to respect my partner(s) 
in all situations sexual and non-
sexual and how gender inequalities 
persist in the public’s perception 
of gender. For me, sex ed really 
missed the mark at teaching the 
social aspects of sexuality.
What high schools really need 
is comprehensive sex education 
that discusses gender norms in 
relation to sex. According to Nicole 
Haberland’s study published by the 
Guttmacher Institute, sex education 
courses that discussed gender in 
relation to power were five times 
more likely to not have students who 
would later contract STIs or have 
unintended pregnancies. The case 
study included 22 schools, and 10 
schools took time to discuss gender 
and power. Eight of the 10 schools 
showed a significant decrease in STIs 
and unplanned pregnancies. 
According to a study in 
the Journal of Urban Health, 
deconstructing traditional ideas of 
masculinity promotes the use of 
contraceptives during sex, while 
adherence to traditional curricula 
results in a higher tendency of 
sexual coercion and relationship 
violence. Thus, discussing gender 
and power in sex ed classes for high 
schoolers can have a healthy and 
positive impact on young adults’ 
forays into sex. Admittedly, the 
sample size from Haberland’s study 
is small, but the research provides 
a nuanced solution for how to 
discuss gender inequalities at an 
early age and how to disseminate it 
en masse.
Furthermore, Haberland found 
that critical thinking on how gender 
norms manifest, personal reflection 
on how sex and power relate in 
one’s own life and looking at one’s 
ability to impact relationships and 
community were key concepts 
in these sex ed courses. Fear-
based strategies — like repeatedly 
mentioning unintended pregnancies 
or potential to contract an STI 
— should be replaced with a 
discussion of sex as pleasurable and 
discussed with the inclusion of non-
heteronormative norms. 
It’s a tweak to sex education 
that can dramatically change social 
perceptions. We should aim to 
educate our youth to think critically 
about the gender inequalities and 
social perceptions surrounding sex. 
Sex should not be a taboo subject of 
discussion, but one we can all draw 
on for empowerment and, of course, 
for our personal enjoyment.How could high school have been any better? Some 
UCSD students will give you a different answer, but 
public school teachers would prefer a more united one: 
less testing. Since the No Child Left Behind act was passed in 
2001, standardized testing has increased in quantity. Less than 
a week ago, Obama admitted that testing has become excessive 
in the education system. He proposed that we only keep exams 
that evaluate academic merit, which raises the question of what 
they were supposed to be doing before. Either way, though his 
change in stance is refreshing and has been considered a victory 
by teacher’s unions, it ignores the root of the problem, which is a 
widespread underfunding of public schools.
To give a bit of histor y, the No Child Left B ehind act was 
signed by Bush over a decade ago to push schools to meet certain 
standards and to provide extra funding for schools that met those 
standards. On its surface, this seemed like a great incentive, and 
it could have worked if schools started out on even footing. But 
public schools depend on the funding that comes from property 
taxes. Because those taxes are directly proportional to property 
values, a public school in Watts can expect much less funding 
than one in Beverly Hills. No Child Left Behind is like having a 
Volkswagen van race a Ferrari, and whoever wins gets to upgrade 
their car for the next race. And the logical conclusion is that the 
van is always going to remain a crummy, old van. It’s nonsensical.Toward the start of his presidenc y, Obama further 
exacerbated the intensity of standardized testing by creating the 
Race to the Top Fund, a competition for school grants that split 
up $4.35 billion worth of funding among the states with the 
highest test scores. Unsurprisingly, states that already had the 
best educational programs, like Massachusetts and New Y ork, 
received the most money, while states with traditionally poor 
public education, like Mississippi and Alabama, received nothing. 
This served to widen the gap in the quality of education between 
states while pushing schools toward more preparation for testing.
We should close the education gap by cutting back on 
standardized tests because fewer federal exams will allow 
teachers more freedom to actually teach. If teachers are 
instructing students how to pass a test, then they’re not 
taking advantages of the subjects that teachers know best 
or feel the most passionate about. And few things bore 
students as much as when their teachers are mechanically 
going through motions of “teaching to the test” without any 
personal enthusiasm.
It might seem odd that “more testing” has been the 
government’s mantra for almost two decades when teachers 
and students are both opposed to this practice. The push 
for testing has largely come from — surprise — testing 
companies. Four of these companies have spent over 
See TEST REFORM, page 5
Alas, the green mermaid of 
coffee has arrived on the shores of 
UCSD. Approximately two years 
after negotiations between University 
Centers and Starbucks began, an 
oasis of caffeine and WiFi was set to 
begin fueling students tomorrow at 7 
a.m. Since Starbucks is fantastically 
renowned, it is bound to attract 
quite a few customers. As such, the 
added traffic generated by the coffee 
siren will inevitably bring more 
business to small local companies, 
like Lemongrass, that are located 
mere steps away. However, we 
have yet to see how Starbucks will 
impact its caffinated competitors 
on campus. It could very well drive 
some of them out of business. 
Aside from consumer goods, 
the chain will be pumping in some 
much-needed revenue in terms 
of rent to UCEN, which provides 
students with spaces to commune 
and study in. Just last April, students 
passed a referendum to make basic 
repairs and upgrades while preventing 
UCEN from being forced to resort 
to minimal operations of its facilities. 
Last but not least, students surveyed 
in 2012 were in favor of bringing a 
Starbucks to UCSD. Starbucks will 
undoubtedly benefit students, in 
terms of the expanded services, as a 
place to exhibit their art, employment 
and even through annual scholarships. 
On the other hand, it is unfortunate that the university has 
slowly withdrawn its support of 
small, local businesses that were 
once a part of Price Center, like Tia 
Molly’s. The then-owner, Molly Lee, 
told the UCSD Guardian in 2001 that 
the business was doing OK but that 
the university never supported the 
family-run burrito joint. Tia Molly’s 
was eventually replaced by Rubio’s, 
another example of how UCSD is 
gradually becoming more dominated 
by corporations. 
What draws people to Starbucks 
is the fact that it is standard. Anyone 
who drinks coffee knows that 
Starbucks coffee is subpar, but there 
are no surprises. Y our triple shot 
peppermint mocha with two pumps 
of vanilla and salted caramel on 
the cup will taste exactly the same, 
regardless of which Starbucks you go 
to in the U.S. There are a sufficient 
number of delectable coffee shops, 
such as the Middle of Muir Coffee 
Shop and the Art of Espresso at 
Mandeville, that are unique to UCSD 
and offer authentic coffee options. 
Their names alone let visitors know 
they will be having a uniquely UCSD 
experience. Although students may 
have been in favor of Starbucks, even 
though Perks is already in PC, it is 
the sixth coffee shop on campus, not 
counting the markets.
It is evident that Price Center, 
now more than ever, resembles any other commercial complex. In spite 
of UCAB’s efforts to personalize the 
design, we cannot help but recognize 
that, at the end of the day, a massive 
corporate chain is making its home 
at UCSD. By essentially investing 
in UCSD, Starbucks may end up 
having more of a voice on campus 
than we expect. The addition of 
Starbucks highlights the increasing 
presence of corporations on college 
campuses. Y et Starbucks could quite 
possibly contribute to an increase 
in collaboration among students 
by regularly drawing them from 
across the six-college system to 
PC.  People from around the world 
flock to Starbucks regardless of 
where they may travel. Starbucks 
is familiar and provides students 
with a “home away from home. ” 
Starbucks is the one place they can 
recognize and feel safe. In spite of 
its price tag, it brings a sense of 
stability and comfort in unknown 
seas. Thus, people form relationships 
based on a mutual appreciation of 
prestigiously over-priced coffee and 
“customized” recipes. The funds and 
income brought in by the presence of 
Starbucks may have the potential to 
save students money. Nonetheless, it 
is important to remember UCSD is a 
public university and any attempt to 
fulfill private interests diminishes the 
accountability and integrity that one 
expects from a public institution.The Pros and Cons of  Big Businesses Dominating Price Center
Vincent Pham
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Tina Butoiu
MANAGING EDITOR
Rosina Garcia
MANAGING EDITOR  
Cassia Pollock
OPINION EDITOR
Kriti Sarin
NEWS EDITOR
Jacky To
ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITOR
Allison Kubo
FEATURES EDITOR
Kyle Somers
ASSOCIATE FEATURES EDITOREDITORIAL  BOARD
The UCSD Guardian is published twice a week at the 
University of California at San Diego. Contents © 
2015. Views expressed herein represent the majority 
vote of the editorial board and are not necessarily those 
of the UC Board of Regents, the ASUCSD or the 
members of the Guardian staff. Vincent  pham 
vnp003@ucsd.edubo y, interrupted
OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 29, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
$20 million lobbying for testing 
between 2009 and 2014, according 
to a report by the Center for Media 
and Democracy. According to the 
report, one of these companies, 
Pearson, faced several lawsuits after 
hiding this spending behind fake 
charitable donations, and another 
of these companies, Educational 
Testing Service, which is a 
nonprofit, makes roughly $1 billion 
per year off of standardized tests.
Despite the push for testing, 
the U.S. has steadily fallen in 
international rankings. According 
to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, 
the U.S. ranks 28th in math and 
science, below countries like 
Slovenia, Latvia and Vietnam. 
Cutting back on standardized 
testing is a good start, and it 
actually has the potential to succeed 
despite the bipartisan deadlocks in 
Congress. Obama’s support mostly 
comes from the left-leaning groups 
like teachers and unions. However, 
Republicans also support less 
testing because it lessens federal 
control of what they perceive as a 
state or local issue.
To reform the system, Obama’s 
first step would logically be to 
repeal incentives for schools based on standardized test scores. 
Then he should come up with a 
comprehensive plan to evaluate 
schools more effectively, with 
far less testing. Ideally, people 
should consult with educators 
on an interpersonal level this 
time. Finally, this reform should 
use merit-based evaluations to 
redistribute the wealth of property 
taxes to those schools that have the 
greatest need, as well as the agency 
to effectively use it. Obviously, it’s 
easier said than done. But if the 
reform of standardized testing 
is executed correctly, this could 
significantly reduce the education 
gap in America.
TEDI Tritions for Equity Di versity and Inclusion
Consciousne ss of the world a round us is an i nvaluable skill for what ever 
career we pu rsue. The goals of TEDI a re to d evelop student s' critical 
consciousne ss of social justice and equi ty minded leade rship, and to build 
a net work of inclusi ve, equi ty minded s tudent leade rs on campus. The 
program consists of a retreat, with four foll ow-up p rograms, workshops, 
or events selected by the pa rticipant to supplement learning. TEDI is 
co-p resented by UCSD A ssociated Students and the Center for Student 
Involvement, and is open to all UCSD s tudents.
REGI STER N OW for TEDI,
go to http:/ /ccl.ucsd .edu/regist ration/
Question s? Email us at ucsdtedi@gmail .comSatu rday, November 14 • 9:30am-3:30pm
Governance Chambe rs, PC Eas t, level 4
@asucsdRegistration for FALL QUARTER
A.S. Safe Rides allows registered
undergraduate students to get
3 FREE rides per quarter.
Students MUST register
at least 24 hours prior
to their ﬁrst ride. A.S. SAFE RIDES 
REGISTER ONLINE AT
AS.UCSD.EDU/SAFERIDESNOW OPEN!
CONFUSED MUSE  By Elyse Yang
Standardized Testing Must Be Reformed to Balance the Education Gap
▶ TEST REFORM,  from page 4SEND YOUR 
LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGTELL US
YOUR
DEEPEST
LAMENTSOne  Sewing  Machine ,
One  Million  Personalities
G: When did you first get into costume making? It seems like you’re experienced in this field given how 
detailed and ornate your costumes are. 
DO  :  I haven’t been making costumes for very long at all, so I’m thankful that God blessed me with this 
incredible gift. I started sketching designs for costumes probably five years ago, but I learned to sew 
three years ago. In total, I’ve made nine costumes, which isn’t a whole lot in retrospect, but I am 
proud and excited of the increasingly intricate designs. … I hope to amass a gallery of my work someday!
G: How do you usually come up with ideas for your costumes or style?
DO: I love writing a story for the characters that I’m designing for. There has to be a reason for every 
detail of the outfit that points back to the costume’s story. The part about designing I appreciate 
most is figuring out how the tiny details make the character complete. My primary inspiration 
comes from Disney, ballets, fantasy genre works and historical period clothing. My work is often designed in 
1800s Victorian, 1700s French or 1400s medieval influence or any combination of the above. My costumes 
are thematically designed and named uniquely to tell stories from the Bible through fairytale interpretation.
G: With any hand-crafted costume, the inevitable concerns of time and money are bound to arise — after 
all, painstaking, detail-oriented pieces don’t usually come cheap. How much time, money and effort goes 
into your average costume?
DO: I buy fabrics in bulk so that I have a larger stock for future projects, but I would average fabric 
for one costume to be around $15 to $20, depending on how many different types of fabric I use. 
Costumes I’ve made with a sewing machine have run anywhere from 10 to 12 hours, and costumes 
I made completely by hand have averaged 18 to 20 hours. The [latest] Wonderland costume took the most 
time because of the separate headpiece, which alone took about five hours and 20 hours for the actual outfit.
G: Which costume would you say is your favorite piece to either have worked on or to have worn?
DO: I have three favorite costumes. The first is a sugar plum fairy tutu I designed for a friend to perform a duet from “The 
Nutcracker. ” The second is a Prince Charming tunic I wore myself as part of a video production telling the story of Cinderella 
through dance. The third is the Wonderland costume that I made for this Halloween, which gave me a chance to have a little 
fun with the jester-inspired design. 
G: Given the extensive amount of work you put into these impressive costumes, what kind of reactions do your costumes typically 
garner? 
DO: People love the costumes. What gets the most attention are the details, which communicates to me that the costumes tell the 
stories I want them to. Friends have told me to sell my work online, design for them or start a business. I’m not opposed to any 
of those if I had all the time and resources in the world. Although I don’t, I’m thankful every time I get an opportunity to bring 
a new piece to life.
Not surprisingly, we all loved the costumes too. 
Stories are told in all mediums — from epic film biopics to nonsensical haikus — but for UCSD 
alumnus and current UCSD InterVarsity staff member Darren Oei, the stories he tells are 
interwoven into each stitch. Playing out a narrative on fabric, familiar folk stories combine with 
traditional dancer’s armor and a whimsical Renaissance flair to create masterpieces that are 
anything but ordinary. Warning: Photos of his costumes will trigger envy and make you question 
why you thought your bedsheet ghost costume was a brilliant idea.
An Interview with Darren Oei
Written by Brittney Lu // Lifestyle Co-Editor
An Interview with Samantha Rae Andico
Written by Christian Gella // Senior Staff Writer
G: How much time and effort do you 
usually spend on your costumes?
SA: It honestly depends on what 
costume I’m planning to wear 
each year. Two years ago I did Eponine 
from [“Les Miserables”], and that only took an hour 
to put together because of stuff I pulled from my 
closet. And last year I did Starlord from “Guardians 
of the Galaxy, ” which took me two months to put to -
gether. I am horrible at sewing, so it took me a while 
to find the pieces of my costume. 
G: Where do you usually get your fabrics, your 
materials and your clothing?
SA: I looked into all the outlet malls [and] 
Amazon. I put everything together that 
way. I tend to get a lot of my clothing from 
Forever 21, and I go to low-budget places, like Fash -
ion Q, in order to put things together. I sometimes 
take scissors and just cut them up if I need to so 
they’re all things I’ve bought.
G: How do people usually react to your costumes?
SA: A lot of my friends go “woah, that’s so 
cool” and all that and they usually get a 
positive reception, so that’s nice.G: Can you describe the moment when Chris Pratt retweeted your costume?
SA: Quite frankly, I freaked out a lot. I was on my way to Starbucks, and I 
kept feeling my phone buzz in my pocket and I was thinking what the 
heck was going on. So I took it out and I saw 50 notifications saying 
“This person retweeted your photo. ” “This person replied to your tweet. ” I had a 
strange feeling in my gut that something happened and that maybe a celebrity 
or Marvel themselves retweeted it. So I scrolled down and when I saw that Chris 
Pratt retweeted my costume, I freaked out. I was screaming in public, “Oh my 
God, Christ Pratt retweeted my costume!” It was really amazing, and I felt really 
flattered. 
G: What has been your favorite costume so far?
SA: I really loved my Starlord costume. That was a lot of fun to put together. 
But I think my costume this year is going to be my favorite of all time.
G : Can you spoil it a little bit?
SA: I’m going to be Han Solo from “Star Wars. ” And I actually bought a 
Chewbacca buddy backpack to wear and put all my candy in.
G: What inspires you to do costumes?
SA: I’m a huge pop culture nerd, so I have stacks and stacks of comic books 
and old ‘80s sci-fi and action films, so those inspire me.
6     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 29, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  WEEKEND
PHOTO COURTESY OF SAMANTHA RAE ANDICOPHOTO BY VIVIAN LUONG
/UCSD GUARDANWEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 29, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
What the Hell, Halloween?
The television flickers as the scene changes: Chad and Patrick are setting up for Halloween 
when a man in a shiny black latex suit kills them both. I grimace at the mini-holiday 
massacre as “ American Horror Story” begins. As I fill the metal mixing bowl with 
personal sweet favorites, pity begins to fester within me — no, not for the recently deceased AHS 
characters, but for myself. 
It’s the evening of Halloween, and I’m left home alone to hand candy to eager boys and girls, 
greedy for their diabetes and cavity fix. 
Night settles in and another episode automatically plays. The whole experience feels like a sad 
routine. A knock resounds and I pause the show to be greeted with another Disney princess. She 
says the magic words, I smile approvingly and she selects her prize.
A few hours pass, and I have half a bag of candy left. My sour disposition finally triumphs 
as I make the best decision of the night: I lock the door, turn off all of the lights and continue 
watching AHS, candy bowl in my lap, as creepy lovebirds Tate and Violet continue to develop 
their relationship. Welcome to Halloween as an adult, my friends.
—  MARIA MANALANG
Contributing Writer
My first “grown-up” Halloween happened during my senior year in high school, at a 
friend’s Halloween party. I was hardly naive to what this “rager” would entail, hav -
ing always either trick-or-treated or stayed home to help pass out candy. That year I 
decided to step out of my comfort zone a bit and participate in this quintessential high school rite 
of passage. 
I arrived to what one could consider a stereotypical high school party scene: segregated social 
groups in circular formations gossiping about the others, all while clasping plastic red Solo cups 
filled with smuggled Smirnoff ice from someone’s older sibling. Overwhelmed and unsure of what 
to do, I clung to the side of my two friends, who accompanied me to the party until more people 
we knew showed up. I went full out for my costume and dressed up like Madonna circa 1984, with 
the big perm-like hair, mesh fingerless gloves, and leather jacket — the works. Unfortunately, most 
of the girls at the party didn’t put in quite as much effort in their costumes, choosing the painfully 
unoriginal store-bought sexy devil and sexy kitten looks.
The whole time I was thinking that I should be enjoying this a lot more than I was and secretly 
wishing the days of free chocolate were still within my reach. The pinnacle of the party was 
somewhere between two boys shotgunning a beer and me searching for a trash bag to tie around 
my friend’s wrist as a sort of vomit receptacle. So, this is what I had been missing out on, I thought 
while plotting my Irish exit from the party. I succeeded in slipping under the radar of the public 
around 11:30 p.m., having more senioritis than ever before, wishing and hoping that college Hal -
loween parties would not be high school, part two.
—  SHELBY NEW ALLIS
Senior Staff WriterThere’s always that one Halloween that manages to break like a pickle jar, juices spilling into 
the shag carpet and forming mildew. Whether Amazon has shipped an integral costume 
part out a day late or you’ve reached an all-time high streak of Tootsie Pops — not Ring 
Pops — these experiences can either create shareable memories or leave a damp section in your 
brain for the rest of your life. When it comes to damp memories, my first Halloween with rain 
was, quite literally, a bog. The first half of the night had premonitions of precipitation. A light 
sprinkle; warnings from the weatherman; Siri’s inauthentic “don’t go out without an umbrella. ” 
And, yet, we trudged into the night like the monsters we were. That confidence, however, faltered 
when the downpour began to pelt us like rocks. Trick-or-treat — hah! We had definitely been 
tricked into walking a mile or two out in the neighborhood, and our costumes were soaked to the 
marrow. However, the rain did bring opportunities for the neighbors to improve their impressions 
of the costumes. My friend, heroically dressed as Bilbo Baggins, was told to brave the storm and 
bring the ring to warmth — more like to hot chocolate mugs, if you ask me.
—  CHRISTIAN GELLA
Senior Staff Writer
UCSD Guardian staff reflect on their tricks 
and treats of past Halloween experiences.
Hillel International Welcomes
RABBI DAVID SINGER
as the new Director at
Hillel of San Diego at UCSD
@ ucsd.hillel Ucsd Hillel
 www.ucsdhillel.orgHillel’s Mission  
Enriching the lives of Jewish students so that they may 
enrich the Jewish people and the world.
Hillel’s Vision  
We envision a world where every student is inspired to make an 
enduring commitment to Jewish life, learning and Israel.
INFOGRAPHIC BY SOPHIA HUANG8     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 29, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  WEEKEND
Lights. Camera. Dialogue. 
Built with the crafty 
direction of Danny 
Boyle and programmed by the 
wildly talkative mind of Aaron 
Sorkin, “Steve Jobs” showcases 
the rich potential and personal 
cost of uncompromising genius.
The story is uniquely told in just 
three speech-heavy scenes, each of 
which is distinct in its visual style and 
in its depiction of who Steve Jobs was.
Opening with the grainy 
appearance of 16-mm film, the first half-hour scene follows a very dirty 
and determined Jobs. He has a bright 
vision of the future, as well as Apple’s 
place in it, and won’t allow anyone to 
muddle it. Even his daughter, whom 
he adamantly denies paternity of, 
must stand behind the fences as he 
attempts to bulldoze the deficiencies 
of the present and build atop the 
ruins of his technological utopia.
The film then shifts in the second 
act to a more fluid and captivating 
35-mm film to tell the story of 
Steve Jobs’ redemption. Here, he is full of vengeance, seeming almost 
childish. But as the camera leads 
us eagerly through his cleverly-
constructed maze, we once again 
realize his unparalleled intellect.
Finally, more than a decade later, 
both the film and Jobs end up back 
where they started — the launch 
of the Mac. This time, however, it 
is shot with the pristine detail of 
digital photography, allowing us 
to uncover the humanity beneath 
Jobs’ rough surface. We finally get 
to see that he genuinely appreciates 
his colleagues, loves his daughter 
and wants to build a better world. 
Though satisfying and conclusive, 
the film’s final act lacks the tension 
and bite of the first two, ultimately 
finishing on too high of a note. This 
positive ending compromises the 
film’s honesty, prompting the audience 
to fantasize about what its original director, David Fincher, would 
have done to leave them startled.
Despite this, “Steve Jobs” is a package 
stuffed and wrapped tightly with 
incredible talent, boasting a quartet of 
masterful performances, all of which 
are easily among the best of the year. 
Jeff Daniels and Seth Rogen — 
two unexpected choices for this 
kind of film, especially Rogen, a  
comedic veteran who is a rookie to 
the realm of drama — prove to be 
more than worthy adversaries to the 
colossal personality of Steve Jobs. 
By confronting him head-to-head, 
they accomplish the ironic task of 
getting the audience to hate Steve Jobs.
However, neither is as worthy 
as Kate Winslet, who portrays 
Apple’s marketing executive and 
one of Jobs’ closest confidants, 
Joanna Hoffman. Winslet exhibits 
Hoffman’s ability both to stand up to Jobs and to keep him grounded.
Michael Fassbender, however, had 
the toughest task, not only because 
he was playing the leading and most 
iconic character, but also because 
he had to take over the role from 
acting behemoths, Christian Bale 
and Leonardo DiCaprio (as well as 
Ashton Kutcher, of course). Both had 
accepted the role before Fassbender 
but walked away for unknown reasons. 
Despite this and his lack of physical 
similarity with Steve Jobs, Fassbender 
convinces the audience to believe 
that they are the same man. Paired 
with Sorkin’s thick and unrelenting 
script, he seduces us into following 
him on his bright and messy quest 
toward his future — our present.
—  jacky  to 
Senior Staff Writer
Obsessive men who dwell on 
the past, look to the future 
and leave their families 
behind are hardly new territory 
for Michael Fassbender, especially 
after appearing in Steve McQueen’s 
2011 masterpiece “Shame. ” The two 
form a perfect companion piece, a 
complementary duo that balances 
the occasionally saccharine taste of 
“Steve Jobs” with the bitter notes of 
“Shame. ” Fassbender portrays young 
executive Brandon Sullivan, a sex 
addict whose need for gratification 
controls everything in his life, from 
a literal step to a cursory glance. 
That parasitic need compelled him 
to lure women out and leave them 
behind in what quickly became a 
nightly ritual. The day is dedicated 
to his compulsions, all at no cost 
to his personal life because he 
refused to acknowledge one. He’ d 
reduced life to mini-transactions. 
Conversation with home-crashing 
sister? No, just nod and yell if 
necessary. The energy will be better 
spent on tomorrow’s hunt. Left  
with little energy for anything else 
in the day, the minor nuisances of life become infuriating problems. 
Fassbender’s Steve Jobs is a 
portrayal of a man similarly unable or 
unwilling to balance his energies and 
quietly suffering for it. The prodigal 
finesse and passion present in his 
professional life was entirely absent 
from  his relationships. He refused 
to acknowledge the paternity of his 
daughter and the ensuing financial 
stakes because it didn’t register on 
the only radar he feels a genuine 
compulsion to check — Apple’s. 
Outright refusing to recognize the 
grime and sweat involved in his 
pristine Mac, Jobs keeps his focus 
on the stage. Untethered from any 
human connection that requires 
continued reciprocity from him, it’s 
no surprise that he cared so much 
about showmanship and its benign 
artificiality. Fassbender is all honesty 
and able to take the form of men from 
all walks of life, giving you a genuine 
rendition of their psyche because to 
him, it’s more than just a job — it’s a duty. 
—  Sam  velazquez
A&E Editiorial AssistantFILM   REVIEW
Directed by   Danny Boyle
Starring  Michael Fassbender, Kate Winslet, Jeff Daniels, Seth Rogen
Rated  R
Release Date  Oct 23Just as its titular character did in real life, “Steve Jobs” 
repeats itself furiously to produce eye-opening results.STEVE  JOBS
Steve  jobs  influence:  
SHAME (2011)
PHOTO COURTESY OF ACESHOWBIZYoung offered his audience three hours of inspired musicianship 
representative of an illustrious career.CONCERT   REVIEW
RIMAC Arena is hardly St. Peter’s Basilica. It’s not 
even Shea Stadium. And yet the size and aesthetics 
of the venue are irrelevant when the public loves 
you, and the Neil Y oung faithful were out in full force to 
hear an icon. After all, he was on the ground level of Los 
Angeles folk rockers Buffalo Springfield, he partook in one 
of the greatest of super groups in Crosby, Stills, Nash & 
Y oung, while conducting a solo career that has gone on for 
well-nigh 50 years. As far as creative output, he is second 
only to Bob Dylan: part folk poet, part electric-rock god. 
That deserves respect. 
His fanbase wouldn’t be disappointed, as he mollified 
them with ambient classics like ” After the Gold Rush, ” 
“Heart of Gold, ” and “Old Man. ” Y oung’s bellowing of “rock 
and roll can never die, ” from “My My, Hey Hey (Out of the 
Blue)” was met with thunderous approval. It was a brilliant 
opening maneuver that satiated the public so they could 
settle in for the full night ahead. The vast contingent of baby 
boomers seemed filled with nostalgia, and judging by the 
demographic, there were undoubtedly some Dead Heads 
and maybe a few Woodstock vets who came out to commune 
with their hero. The catchy indie-pop of the show’s opener, 
Jenny Lewis, was nice to whet the appetite, but Y oung was 
without a doubt the real magnet pulling in the public.
As the concert hit its stride, the marijuana smoke 
began wafting through the air and the Bud Light was 
ubiquitous. Honestly, Young doesn’t say much on stage, 
but it hardly matters. Every extended harmonica solo 
was a gift, and every timeless lyrical protest that he’s 
penned was offered up to his audience. He switched 
between acoustic and electric arrangements agilely with 
the assistance of his spirited band Promise of The Real, 
who seemed just as excited as the masses to be rocking 
with a legend. 
For man nearly 70 years old, Young still has it, and 
his vocal cords have not noticeably deteriorated. He 
perfectly employs that Canadian drawl that is somehow 
melodic in a raw, earthy sort of way. It epitomizes his 
songs about Mother Nature — about doing our utmost to cultivate the earth around us.
Presumably, his latest experimental endeavor, “The 
Monsanto Y ears, ” will not tickle everyone’s fancy with its 
constant mention of the corporation’s villainy, but it does 
give course to a few catchy satires like “People Want to Hear 
About Love. ” 
Above all, the show felt like an ethereal odyssey that 
ebbed and flowed between acoustic folk and the dizzying 
riffs of unadulterated rock n’ roll. With a set list that went 
well over three hours, there was ample time allotted for 
layered guitar sessions, including a mind-numbing 
20-minute rendition of “Down by the River. ” But, first and 
foremost, this was a rock concert and Y oung certainly gave 
us what we paid for. There’s nothing quite like “Rocking 
in the Free World” with one of the world’s virtuoso 
performers. He’s reached the apex of artistic expression, 
and he’s won’t be silenced anytime soon.
—   Tynan  Y anaga
Senior Staff WriterNeil  young
at   rimac  arena 
Concert Date  Oct. 13
PHOTO BY  JONATHAN GAO/ UCSD GUARDIANPHOTO COURTESY OF ACESHOWBIZWEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 29, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
Indie-rock’s class clown, Mac Demarco, delivers a sentimental yet lively 
performance leaving fans with his songs stuck in their heads for weeks. 
FIDLAR rock The Observatory North Park, fueling the 
crowd’s excitement with a nonstop punk rock set.CONCERT   REVIEW
CONCERT   REVIEWLast Friday night, North Park 
was too tranquil to be the 
most young and vibrant 
neighborhood of San Diego. The rare 
passersby were making their way on 
the sidewalk, and only a few people 
gathered outside The Observatory 
North Park music venue. A guy in a 
Hawaiian shirt was stretching on a 
small metal fence, a young woman 
was fixing her black lipstick, a group 
of teens was anxiously smoking 
American Spirits. They were preparing 
their bodies and minds, for they knew 
the absence of the line at the entrance 
was only an illusion — on Oct. 23, 
The Observatory was hosting a sold 
out show for one of the most eccentric 
indie artists of our time, Mac Demarco.
Since his high school years, 
Mac DeMarco has been involved 
in several musical projects such as 
“Makeout Videotape.” Now as a solo 
act the 25-year-old Canadian singer-
songwriter has released four studio 
albums and two accompanying demo 
records maintaining a distinct musical 
style described as “slacker rock. ” His 
songs are mainly guitar-based and 
evoke a carefree vibe reminiscent of 
DeMarco himself, who is known for 
his silly personality and extraordinarily 
casual fashion style. While his salad 
days might be gone, he is able to 
preserve his teenage image and high 
school class-clown personality.
Anyone who was present at Friday’s 
show could feel DeMarco’s youthful 
and, at times, immature ambience. 
Sporting backward caps, Mac’s friends 
Alex Calder and W alter TV opened 
the show with laid-back guitar tones 
and ended their set by introducing the 
highly anticipated headliner as “The 
Dave Matthews Band. ” Though The 
Dave Matthews Band did not make an 
appearance, the dream of the ‘90s was kept alive with Haddaway’s “What Is 
Love” that accompanied DeMarco as 
he walked out onstage. Suffused with 
heartfelt love songs, his setlist was 
mainly comprised of tracks off his 
newest mini-album “ Another One” 
and older favorites like “Still Together. ” 
Playing another one after another one, 
Mac jokingly introduced his songs with 
made-up titles, “Butt Cheese” being 
the most memorable example. These 
and other antics such as grabbing and 
clenching his glutes were the obvious 
signs of Mac DeMarco being anything 
but shy on stage. Feeling at ease in 
front of a sold-out crowd, he managed 
to establish an intimate connection 
with his loyal fans who passionately 
danced and sang back every lyric. The 
traditional throwing of cigarettes onto 
the stage during “Ode to Viceroy” was 
the epitome of the fanbase’s devotion to 
its “Pepperoni Playboy. ”
While one would think Mac’s 
smooth, soothing voice would not 
warrant a rowdy crowd; those familiar 
with the musician were fully aware of 
the wild nature of his live shows and 
were prepared to mosh. Canada’s resident Blue Boy, possesses the 
unique ability to disguise his tortured 
soul with upbeat, catchy riffs igniting 
the inner savages of otherwise calm 
music enthusiasts. He’s able to play 
with people’s emotions as effortlessly 
as he plucks the strings of his bare 
wooden Fender strat and flows 
between the highs and lows of his 
extensive vocal gradient. 
At the end of the show, Mac was 
prompted for an encore and delivered 
a surprise Metallica cover, but not 
before his guitarist warned the crowd 
to go easy. No longer able to control 
their feelings, the audience went into a 
frenzy halfway through the rendition 
of “Enter Sandman” when Mac dove 
into the crowd. As the final notes 
faded and the lights came back on in 
the Observatory, we were unable to 
distinguish fans’ tears from sweat, but 
we were most certainly happy with 
our Macky.
—   Josel ynn  ordaz  
&  olga  golubkov a  
Contributing Writers
Punk concerts can be kinda 
same-y. A band gets up on stage, 
bangs out a set, people mosh, 
then the band finishes and the next 
one goes on. Repeat. To a large extent, 
that’s the point of punk, since its whole 
raison d’ etre was to be a counterpoint 
to the elaborate show antics of hard 
rock groups in the ‘70s and ‘80s. But for 
the casual listener (hint: anyone who 
would list Green Day as a punk band) 
it can be hard to get into that kind of 
show without a touch of mainstream 
influences and showmanship. And for 
them, a good entry point into punk 
rock concerts would be FIDLAR, who 
has a few subtle ways to keep its shows 
from becoming monotonous while 
staying close enough to its punk roots 
to satisfy longtime fans of the genre.
The venue was The Observatory 
North Park, a well-thought-out 
venue with raised floors toward the 
back for people who didn’t want to 
mosh and a bar behind that with 
a nicely-placed wall that actually 
allowed for talking over the music. 
Being a punk concert in North Park, 
there wasn’t a person to be found 
over the age of 35, and contrary to 
the genre’s image, most members 
of the audience were thoroughly 
relaxed, social and approachable.
The Frights opened. They’re a 
local band that appear fairly regularly 
at the Che Cafe, among other 
places, and the trio plays songs of 
a mutant combination of punk and ‘50s doowop. Besides their taste, 
The Frights are also remarkable for 
how hard they get into the music. 
Jumping, running and flipping hair, 
they were on full display that night. 
The group rocked out to a fun but 
fairly unremarkable set consisting of 
some of their newer tracks.
FIDLAR calmly walked on stage 
and went right into “Stoked and 
Broke” off of its first album, which is 
hardly a warm-up. But the crowd was 
ready for it. It played songs off of both 
of its album, playing crowd favorites 
like “Cheap Beer, ” “No Waves” and 
“Leave Me Alone, ” and most of the 
crowd knew every single song. Its new 
album, “Too, ” definitely has more pop 
influences, especially on songs like 
“40 oz. on Repeat” and “West Coast, ” 
which it used to break up its slightly 
harsher first album.
Behind the band there were giant 
paper heads on sticks with glowing 
eyes, one for each of the four members 
of the band. In an interesting touch, they all had smoke coming out of their 
mouths at one point or another, except 
for the head representing the lead 
singer, referencing his recent hard-
earned path to sobriety. 
FIDLAR didn’t talk as much 
to the audience as it has at past 
concerts, like the more intimate Che 
Cafe venue, but right before the last 
song, Zac Carper, the lead singer 
asked everyone to sit down. And a 
concert hall with hundreds of people 
listened to him. He started the last 
song, “Cocaine, ” and told everyone 
that they would know when to get 
up. They did, sitting poised to jump 
back up when the lyrics started; the 
quiet intro exploded into one of the 
band’s most wild songs. Even though 
it forewent the encore after, most of 
the audience was satisfied, shuffling 
tiredly and hard-of-hearing out of a 
truly energetic concert.
—   Kyle  Somers
Senior Staff Writermac  demarco
at   The  observ a tor y  north  p ark
Fidlar
at   the  observ a tor y  north  p arkConcert Date  Oct. 23
Concert Date  Oct. 17
PHOTO BY OLGA GOLUBKOVA /UCSD GUARDIAN
PHOTO COURTESY OF ALICE BAXLEYscarred for life 
The Guardian takes a (reluctant?) look back at the 
scary movies that left lasting marks. Whether they’ve 
caused traumatizing emotional wounds or psych 
twisting disfigurements, these films have certainly left 
us haunted. Even Guardians can be scared sometimes.
“The Conjuring”
(2013)
“Funny Games”
(2007)
“Halloween”
(1978)Our favorite horror movies are 
those that make us hide under our 
covers and check our closets for 
ghosts at night. “The Conjuring” 
is without a doubt this kind of 
movie. It follows all the horror movie 
staples: creepy music, frightening evil 
spirits, surprise jump scenes, hauntings 
from dead people. But it also breaks some rules. Some hauntings 
happen during the daylight — which isn’t something often seen 
in horror films. “The Conjuring” follows a pair of paranormal 
investigators who are attempting to save a family from a 
powerful demonic spirit attached to their home. The plot stands 
on its own, and the movie doesn’t rely on the scariness to keep it 
interesting. Although its terror is by no means diminished; “The 
Conjuring” is a typical horror movie with a few twists that are 
done very well. It is a worthwhile watch for anyone seeking to 
be both entertained and terrified.
—  Chrissy  dodd 
Contributing Writer
“Halloween,” “Halloween II,” 
“Halloween III,” “Halloween 
4,” “Halloween 5,” “Halloween: 
The Curse of Michael Myers,” 
“Halloween H20,” “Halloween: 
Resurrection” and Rob Zombie’s 
remake of “Halloween.” You think 
those are enough sequels that have the same 
damn villain (with the exception of “Halloween III”)? Despite 
its notorious and terrible sequel run, the original remains a 
landmark in cinematic history. The film strays away from the 
gore and blood that was so common in the contemporaneous 
films like “Dracula” and “Night of the Living Dead,” and 
marked a new era in how we define horror movies. When Bob 
gets hanged on the wall by Myers’ knife, Myers simply stands 
there in silence, observing Bob’s final limp motions like a 
curious child. No blood. No gore. Just brilliance.
—  Cedric  hyon
Staff WriterHorror films usually come in 
the shape of a triangle. There 
is a villain, a victim and us, the 
passive audience. The triangle is 
quite simple: the villain torments 
the victim, and through a thorny 
psychological mechanism, we are 
happily entertained. But what if someone — 
say Michael Haneke in “Funny Games” — decided to turn the 
triangle into a line? That is, what if the villain could pass by the 
victim to torment us instead? What if in place of entertainment we 
were to receive the punishment traditionally reserved for fictio nal 
victims? Haneke’s “Funny Games” not only asks these questions 
but answers them for you — or, shall I say, in spite of you. The 
film is a flat-out war against the audience, a confrontation take n 
to its ultimate consequences. The reason, presumably, is to make 
us conscious about the problematic nature of our entertainment. It 
brings to the fore the degree to which we enjoy and are amused by 
sheer, often pointless, violence. In an interview with The New York 
Times, Haneke argues that his film tries “to rape the viewer into 
independence,” and to what extent he achieves the former, but not 
the latter, is for each person to discover. 
—  Mario  a ttie 
Senior Staff Writer
                                                                                                                                                                                                ILLUSTRATION BY JENNA MCCLOSKEY
                                                    ILLUSTRATION BY JENNA MCCLOSKEY
                                                                                                                                                                                          ILLUSTRATION BY JENNA MCCLOSKEY10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 29, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDS$
Gua rdian Classifieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedsBIKES
24” Mountain Bike Baby Seat - $120. I have a 
24” mountain bike with baby seat. The bike 
is 21 speed. The baby seat attached to it 
like new. Rides smooth and it’s ready to go. 
They are in terrific condition. The baby bike 
seat is on back of bike, with rack. Brand new 
it cost $165 plus tax. Listing ID: 200522670 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Sun EZ Sport AX Recumbent - $650. For 
sale aluminum 27 speed Sun EZ Sport AX 
recumbent bike in fantastic condition. 
Originally paid approximately $1500 in 
2005. Listing ID: 200522669 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
Trek Madone 5200 - $900. Trek Madone 
5200 for sale 2004. Ultegra nine speed 
groupset (rear/front derailleur, shifter, 
brake, crankset and pedal). FSA carbon 
handlebar and carbon seatpost. San Marco 
seat. Mavic Ksyrium elite wheel with Vittoria 
Rubino pro tire. Vittoria Rubino pro. Carbon 
bottle cage. I give a brand new KMC X9SL 
chain. The size is 58cm (seat tube length 
C-T). Effective Top Tube Length is 56cm. I’m 
5’11 and I am comfortable when I ride the 
bike. Listing ID: 200522668 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more informationELECTRONICS
Audiovox CD, Alarm and Radio - $10. This 
is a complete alarm, radio and CD player. 
Everything works. Selling as is. Listing ID: 
200522727 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Xbox One 500GB w/GTA 5 - $300. $300 is 
firm. Not selling individually. Listing ID: 
200522726 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
DVD Player and Remote - $25. DVD player 
and remote are used, but work like new. 
Selling as is. Listing ID: 200522725 at ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
FURNITURE
Travertine Table Set - $500. High-end SOLID 
Travertine table set by “Stone International. ” 
Imported from Italy! Includes formal dining 
table and chairs, coffee table, side table, 
two stone lamps! You absolutely will not 
find this set used elsewhere! Listing ID: 
200516491 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Bedroom Set - $60. Pine bedroom set. 
Chest, dresser with mirror, two night -stands. Comes with all drawers. Listing ID: 
200522731 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Red Coffee Table - $75. Fairly new red cof -
fee table with built in book shelf/magazine 
holder. Great decor. Listing ID: 199664458 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies 
on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.ukLevel: 1234 Level: 1234
SUDOKU
GET INVOLVED!
Join the Associated Students
For mo re info, visit as.ucsd .edu
as.ucsd.edu
asucsd asucsdCouncil Staff & Service
Positions Still Open
& much more... 
#UCSDNEWS
#NOFILTERS @ucsdguardian#FOLLOW USwhat do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 29, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
MORE INFO AT SOVAC.UCSD.EDU/REGISTER@ucsdguardianSPORTS  CLUBS
Triton Roller Hockey : The UCSD Roller Hockey Club opened its season this past 
weekend on Oct. 24 after going 15–1 and finishing in the final four at nationals 
last season. It played its first games of the 2015–16 season against UC Berkeley, 
West V alley Community College, UC Santa Cruz and Chico State.
After losing multiple seniors due to graduation, the new-look San Diego 
team took on the Cal Bears to start the tournament. The first two periods of the 
game were very evenly matched with three goals scored by each team. In the 
third period, however, the five-man UCSD squad had trouble keeping pace with 
the fast-skating UC Berkeley team, and the Tritons found themselves down by 
two goals with just six minutes left to play. Junior veterans Jeremy Fong, Dylan 
Shives and Grant Marcy dug deep in the last two minutes of the game, and the 
trio combined to score two goals, tying the game up with just 16 seconds left 
in regulation to force overtime. The Tritons eventually fell in overtime but still 
managed to gain a point in the standings.
In the second game of the tournament, UCSD played against West V alley 
Community College, a new team to the WCRHL. This hard-fought defensive 
battle was another game that saw back and forth goals through the first two 
periods, setting up an intense finish. UCSD looked exhausted and couldn’t 
seem to get control of the puck in the third period, but senior goaltender Peter 
Simonsen was able to keep it close, making 14 saves in the third period and 34 
total in the game. However, an unlucky bounce with just six minutes to play in 
the game proved to be too much to overcome for the Tritons as they eventually 
fell 4–3.
The Tritons looked to bounce back in their third game of the tournament as 
they played UCSC, the team that eliminated them from the regional playoffs last 
season. The Tritons came out looking determined and outshot the Banana Slugs 
12–5 in the first period, jumping to an early 2–0 lead. UCSD would continue 
its strong play throughout the rest of the game and finish with a commanding 
6–1 win.
The last game of the tournament was against a strong Chico State team that 
was unbeaten in the tournament. UCSD was able to carry its momentum into 
this game as it jumped out to an early 3–0 lead after the first period. Chico 
State regrouped during the intermission and scored five goals while UCSD only 
managed to net two. Once again, the five-man Triton team entered the third 
period with the score tied. Early in the third frame, Dylan Shives scored his fifth 
goal of the game, giving the Tritons a slight lead, but the Wildcats bounced right 
back and tied the game to force overtime. Just minutes into overtime, Jeremy 
Fong managed to squeak a shot past the Chico goalie to give UCSD a 7–6 victory.
The UCSD Roller Hockey Club plays again in two weeks when it plays its only 
home games of the season. Come support Triton hockey on Saturday, Nov. 7, 2015 
as it plays back-to-back games against University of San Diego at Skate San Diego 
in El Cajon at 11 a.m. and 1 p.m.
Equestrian : This weekend, the UCSD Western Equestrian team competed in 
its first show of the season at the IHSA Cal Poly Pomona double header. Riders 
Allison Oseas and Delphine Sherman showed in the Novice Horsemanship 
division. Oseas earned two sixth-place ribbons, one from each of the morning 
and afternoon shows. Riders Madeline Haff and Samantha W atts showed in the 
Intermediate Horsemanship division, with W atts earning third and fourth place, 
and Haff earning second and third place. All riders will compete again at the next 
show on Nov. 14.COMPILED BY BRITTNEY VIERRAWOMEN'S  TENNIS
Tritons End Fall Season at Northridge
Women’s tennis will look to improve for its regular season, starting in January. 
Wright kept the rest of the Tritons 
to pace with 18.0 points on 13 kills, 
four service aces and two block as -
sists. Along with 11 digs, Wright ob -
tained her fourth double-double in 
as many matches while also hitting 
0.400.
Dahle continued to build up her 
living legend status at UCSD as she 
finished with 12 kills and 11 digs, all 
while hitting 0.478. This racked up 
her current leaderboard of kills to a count of 1,378. 
Sophomore middle blocker Re -
becca Seaberry had five blocks, with 
one of those being a solo. Colla 
brought in 10 digs for the Tritons.
“I think it was a good perfor -
mance by quite a few people. ... We 
had a good hitting percentage, our 
outsides had very few errors and 
they also had a good hitting per -
centage. We were very consistent 
out there, ” UCSD Head Coach Ricci 
Luyties told the UCSD Athletics De -
partment. “If we can just take care of business, we will be in a great spot 
for our conference. ”
With only six games left in the 
season, the Tritons will look to 
improve or at least maintain their 
rankings over the course of these 
next crucial games. The Tritons will 
stay home this weekend as they host 
Cal Poly Pomona on Oct. 30 and Cal 
State Monterey Bay on Oct. 31.Select members of the UCSD 
women’s tennis team traveled north 
to compete in Cal State Northridge’s 
Fall Invitational at Matador Tennis 
Complex this past weekend. Freshmen 
Madison Hale and Alexandra Weil 
posted fifth and eighth-place finishes, 
respectively, in the Singles B field, then 
paired up in the Doubles A bracket and 
snagged an eighth-place finish.
Hale’s finish in the Singles was 
the Tritons’ highest of the day. She 
snagged victory against UC Riverside’s 
sophomore Natalie Penner in the 
opening match (6–2, 6–1) but fell to 
Cal State Long Beach’s sophomore 
Antonella Santeusanio in the second 
round. Hale then rebounded in the 
next two rounds against South Dakota 
State’s senior Beatriz Souza and UC 
Riverside’s sophomore Karla Dulay to 
land a fifth-place finish.Weil fell to Dulay in round one but 
took wins against South Dakota State’s 
senior Tracy Haws-Lay, UC Santa 
Barbara’s freshman Kyla Jarrar and 
University of Montana’s sophomore 
Cam Kincaid to take eighth.
In the C Draw, junior Nava 
Nowamooz and sophomore Nousha 
Nowamooz took sixth and 12th place 
finishes, respectively. Nava Nowamooz 
took wins in the first and third rounds 
but dropped the fifth-place match 
against Montana’s sophomore Cat 
Orfanos to land in sixth place overall. 
Nousha Nowamooz dropped three of 
four matches to ultimately take 12th 
place overall.
Hale and Weil paired up in the 
Doubles A Draw, falling early on to the 
duo of junior Emilia Borkowski and 
sophomore Danielle Pham from Cal 
State Fullerton but rebounding in the 
next two matches against pairs from 
UC Riverside and UC Irvine to land in 
eighth place overall.
Nava Nowamooz and junior Shannon Theisen paired up in the B 
Draw, falling in the first match and 
winning the next three to snag eighth 
place. The duo of freshman Jessica 
Cramer and Nousha Nowamooz took 
victory against UC Riverside pair 
Penner and Abby V alera but fell to 
Cal State Northridge, UCSB and UC 
Riverside pair junior Sophie El-Kara 
and sophomore Kassie Truong to finish 
in 12th place.
Senior Kyra Scott and sophomore 
Britta Mosser, UCSD’s top doubles 
team, took the weekend off after their 
sixth-place performance at last week’s 
USTA/ITA National Small College 
Championships.
The Tritons concluded the fall 
portion of the 2015–16 season at the 
CSUN Invitational and will be on a 
three-month hiatus before opening 
the regular season at Division-I for Cal 
State Fullerton on Jan. 20, 2016.By   k a t i e   p o t t s
Editorial Assistant
readers can contact
Ka tie  potts  kpotts@ucsd.edu 
readers can contact
gurkira t  singh   gsingh@ucsd.edu Tritons Look to Continue Win Streak at Home This Weekend
▶ W. VOLLEYBALL,  from page 12SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
MARCUS THUILLIER
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 29, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
bi-weekl y
summar y
Senior goalkeeper Kel -
cie Brodsky was named 
the National Soccer 
Coaches Association of 
America College Players of the 
Week, and the California Collegiate 
Athletic Association Women’s Soc -
cer Player of the Week for the first 
time in her career.
The Triton women’s cross 
country team placed three 
runners on the All-
Conference team and 
placed second at the 
CCAA Championships.
The Triton men’s cross 
country team placed 
fifth at the CCAA 
Championships in San 
Francisco.
UCSD had nine top-
four finishes at the 
San Diego Open, and 
David Hadler won the 
Mixed Foil.
Named CCAA player of 
the week for this week, 
UCSD’s senior outside-
hitter Danielle Dahle 
broke Rebecca Bailey’s 
kills record established 
between 2005 and 2008. Dahle now 
has 1,378 while Bailey stopped at 
1,364 in her collegiate career.1
3
5
1,3789
WOMEN'S
VOLLEYBALL
12 19 25 20
13 22 16UCSD
UCSDChico State
Stanislaus State25 25 22 25
25 25 25The UCSD men’s and women’s cross 
country teams began their postseason 
at the 2015 California Collegiate 
Athletic Association Championships 
hosted by San Francisco State. On 
Sunday, the women started the 
postseason with a bang, taking the 
second spot and placing three runners 
on the All-Conference team. The men’s 
team navigated a stacked field to finish 
in fifth.
On the women’s side, senior 
Paige Hughes earned her second 
straight All-CCAA honor en route 
to a seventh-place finish, completing 
6-K course in 21:41. Two additional 
Tritons finished in the top 15 of the 
competition. Senior Corinne Hinkle 
finished the race in 21:57.0, good 
for 12th. She was closely followed by 
freshman Karina Carstens (22:02.5) 
who confirmed her exceptional first 
season with the Tritons with a 13th 
place finish and a CCAA Freshman of 
the Y ear honor as the first freshman 
to cross the finish line. Rounding up the points for the 
Tritons, sophomore Ella Verhees 
(22:09.6) placed 17th, just shy of an 
All-CCAA team spot. UCSD’s fifth 
runner was sophomore Skylar Thiel 
(22:22.0) who finished in 25th.
Since 2008, No. 5 Chico State 
has won the CCAA crown, and it 
did so again, making this its eighth 
straight win with a score of 38 points. 
Chico State also boasted the top two 
performers in McCall Habermehl and 
Sadie Gastelum. UCSD beat another 
ranked team, finishing ahead of No. 
24 Cal Poly Pomona in second with 
61 points. Cal State San Bernardino 
rounded out the podium with 100 
points, while Pomona dropped down 
to fifth. 
“The women put together a strong 
effort today, and we are really proud 
of how they competed, ” UCSD Head 
Coach Nate Garcia told the UCSD 
Athletics Department. “The CCAA is 
an excellent conference, and finishing 
second is a great result. ”
On the men’s team, senior Daniel 
Franz (25:33.7) was the first Triton to 
cross the line, coming in 27th overall 
on the 8k race. The next four-point scorers for UCSD finished within 20 
seconds of each other and all placed 
in the top 50 of the conference. 
Junior Terrence Luevano (25:50.3) 
placed 35th, freshman Aren Johnson 
(25:53.8) was 39th, junior Eddie 
Carrillo (26:07.2) finished 44th and 
freshman Garrett Boulais (26:10.3) 
crossed the finish line in 47th.
UCSD was the fifth team overall, 
scoring 148 points. All three ranked 
teams in the CCAA took the first 
three spots. No. 2 Chico State won 
the competition for the 14th year in 
a row with a very low point total of 
24. Just like the women’s side, Chico 
State boasted the top performer on the men’s, William Reyes, who won 
the individual race in 24:13.6. No. 8 
Cal Poly Pomona was second with 
46 points. Host No. 25 San Francisco 
State finished third with 62. 
“The men grouped up well, but 
we did not have our best day, ” Garcia 
said. “We will go back to work and 
run better in a couple of weeks. ”
After last weekend’s outing, the 
Tritons have two weeks to prepare for 
the NCAA West Regionals, hosted by 
Western Oregon on Saturday, Nov. 7.Tritons on That Hot Streak
And got a reputation for themselves now
Over this past weekend, the UCSD women’s volleyball team had 
decisive matches with other good teams to extend its winning 
streak to four games in a row, after defeating Chico State on 
Friday night and Cal State Stanislaus on Saturday night at RIMAC Arena 
in front of ever-faithful fans.
After hitting a rough patch and losing four games, including a three-game 
losing streak in the middle of the season, the UCSD squad was looking for an 
opportunity to exert its dominance again and show its true winning nature. 
After picking up two wins on the road against Cal State Monterey Bay and 
Cal Poly Pomona two weekends ago, UCSD came into the previous weekend 
hoping to carry on with the momentum and take down the competition, which 
it did in a shutout fashion.
Game One
On Friday night, the Tritons won the match with a 3–1 victory, defeating 
Chico State in four sets. The set scores were 25–12, 25–19, 22–25 and 25–20 
in favor of the Tritons. Following this victory, the Tritons improved to a 12–9 
overall ranking and 8–5 California Collegiate Athletic Association ranking. 
Chico State dropped to 16–7 overall and 8–5 CCAA rankings. With this win, 
UCSD placed into a four–team tie for third place in the CCAA, along with Cal 
Poly Pomona, Chico State and San Francisco State. 
Definitely the most impressive and memorable player of the night was the 
Tritons’ outside hitter, senior Danielle Dahle. Dahle ended the night with 28 
kills, which took her up to a career-high kill count of 1,366 as a Triton. This 
was highly impressive, as she surpassed Rebecca Bailey, who had held the 
title for UCSD’s career kill leader with 1,364 kills between 2005 to 2008. The 
record-breaking kill came off an assist from senior setter Heidi Sierks in the 
fourth set, putting the Tritons up 15–14. From that point, the Tritons gathered 
momentum and eventually won the set without too much trouble. Dahle also had an impressive 0.410 hitting percentage with only three errors in 61 attacks. 
Dahle also had 11 digs and earned her 10th double-double of the season. 
“It’s a crazy feeling. I’m honored … and I’m just happy we’re doing well, ” 
Dahle told the UCSD Athletics Department when asked about surpassing the 
record of most career kills. “I think we did a good job of playing every point 
like it was just a point, climbing back into it if we were down and not letting it 
go to our heads. We just kept pushing on and not giving up. ”
Junior outside hitter Meagan Wright also put forth an impressive 
performance as she contributed 17 kills and 24 digs. This allowed her to notch 
her 13th double-double of the season. Sierks also brought the energy as she 
hit up 55 assists and 18 digs, which allowed her to notch her a team-high 14th 
double-double of the season. Sophomore libero Amanda Colla had the squad-
high 28 digs for the night. 
Comparatively, the Tritons played a better game as they hit 0.274 while the 
Wildcats hit only 0.158. They also led with a 98–86 advantage in digs and out-
blocked the Wildcats 6–2. 
Game Two
The following Saturday night carried out in a similar fashion. The Tritons 
held nothing back as they went all in and shut out Cal State Stanislaus 3–0 to 
maintain their winning streak. The set scores were 25–13, 25–22 and 25–16. 
Following this win, the Tritons improved to a 13–9 overall ranking and a 
9-5 CCAA ranking. The W arriors fell to 12–8 overall and 6–8 in the CCAA. 
The Tritons are still tied for third place with Cal Poly Pomona. 
The Tritons had their best offensive outing since 2012 on Saturday night as 
they managed to post up a 0.369 hitting percentage with 45 kills and only seven 
errors among 103 attacks. The W arriors couldn’t compete with such a strong 
offense: They only hit a 0.154. The Tritons also out-blocked the W arriors 8–1. 
The entire squad played effectively Saturday night, leading to a shutout win. BY GURKIRAT SINGH SENIOR STAFF WRITER // PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE
CROSS  COUNTR Y
Running Toward NCAAs 
Triton women finish second and men fifth at CCAAs
BY   m a r c u s   T h u i l l i e r
Sports Editor
See W. VOLLEYBALL , page 11
PHOTO USED WITH PERMISSION FROM THE UCSD ATHLETICS DEPARTMENT
readers can contact
MARCUS  THUILLIER  mthuilli@ucsd.edu M. Water Polo
W. Soccer
W. Volleyball
W.  Volleyball
Swim and Dive  10/29
  10/30
  10/30
  10/31
  10/31VS Santa Clara
VS CSU San Marcos
VS Cal Poly Pomona
VS CSU Monterey Bay
VS Claremont-Mudd-ScrippsUPCOMING
UCSD
GAMES