VOLUME 48, ISSUE 40  THURSDAY , MARCH 12, 2015 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
UCSD WRITER 
TALKS SCI FI
ALUMNUS DAVID BRIN,  
PHYSICIST AND AWARD-
WINNING WRITER IGNORES 
UCSD GUARDIAN’S 
QUESTIONS IN ENLIGHTENING, 
IF CRYPTIC INTERVIEW ABOUT 
COLLEGE LIFE, SCI-FI
UC  IRVINE  FLAG  DECISION
MECKLING'S  RETURNTHE  EDITORIAL  BOARD  WEIGHS  IN
a  journey  to  bout  againOPINION,  P age   4
sports,  P age  12
TOMORROW
H 88 L 58SATURDAY
H 87 L 62
SUNDAY
H 85 L 59MONDAY
H 86 L 60
FORECAST
VERBATIM
DO WE 
REALLY HAVE 
TO DROP 
EVERYTHING 
WE DEEM 
OFFENSIVE 
DOWN THE 
MEMORY HOLE, AS IF WE WERE 
ALL BUREAUCRATS HIRED BY 
THE MINISTRY OF TRUTH?”
-JORDAN UTLEY-THOMSON
GUARDIAN WATCH
OPINION , PAGE 4
INSIDE
AVERAGE CAT...................2
PROPOSED UC CAMPUS  ..4
SHOREHOUSE KITCHEN  ...8
SUDOKU  ....................... 10
BASEBALL  .................... 11“
Weekend,  P AGE  6
PHOTO PERMISSION OF DAVID BRIN
CA Assemblyman Calls for 
New Tech-Based UC Campus  
California Assemblyman Mike Gatto 
announced his proposal for a new 
University of California campus in a press 
release on March 2. 
The new school, whose location is not speci -
fied in the bill, would focus on science, technol -
ogy, engineering, arts and mathematics as areas 
of study. 
The legislation, titled AB 1483, is comprised of 
two parts. The first would initiate the process of 
planning and building a new campus by pushing 
the UC system to study the feasibility of the project 
and potential locations. The Assembly bill further 
requests the appropriation of $50 million for land 
acquisition and initial building costs.
Gatto, a Democrat from Glendale, called for a 
UC campus primarily concentrated on the STEM 
fields but that also provides an interdisciplinary education in the arts. 
In his press release, Gatto claimed that gradu -
ates of this background are in growing demand 
within the workforce, but that this type of educa -
tion is not always readily available in the state.
“Tech and creative jobs are the future, yet too 
many California students are unable to get the 
education they need here in California, ” Gatto said.  
“It is time for the legislature to prioritize higher 
education with bold moves, ones that will make a 
meaningful difference in the educational levels and 
skillsets of Californians for generations to come. ”
Gatto further argued that the UC system is cur -
rently overcrowded, and that this has resulted in a 
drop in recent admissions.
The press release cites acceptance rates for UC 
Berkeley, which had over 40,000 applicants and 
less than 9,000 acceptances in 2014, to support   B y  Br ynna bol t    senior staff writerThe open forum discussed 
the letter from University      
officials  that asked the 
collective to voluntarily vacate 
the cafe space by March 14.
B Y BRUCE B.Y. LEE
Contributing Writer
The C.H.E. Cafe Collective held 
an open forum last Friday, March 6, 
to discuss different ways to approach 
UCSD administration’s letter that 
asked the Collective to leave the facility 
by March 14.
In the letter written by Juan 
Gonzalez, vice chancellor for student 
affairs, administrators petitioned the 
collective to accept the A.S. Council 
and Graduate Student Association 
resolution to vacate the facility and 
reoccupy it in Fall of 2016, under 
the condition that “financial stability 
and sustainability has been achieved, 
student involvement has improved, 
funding has been secured to repair 
and renovate the Che facility and 
renovations and repairs have                 
been completed. ”
According to Gonzalez, if the 
collective refuses to vacate the facility 
by March 14, the administration will 
proceed with a formal eviction process.
The discussion at the open forum 
mainly revolved around whether 
the collective should abide by the 
resolution or find an alternative 
that may potentially include                           
physical confrontation.
Monty Kroopkin, a UCSD 
graduate and member of the collective, 
suggested that the administration’s 
reasoning on why the collective needs 
to vacate was improper.
“It makes no sense for us to be out 
of this place, ” Kroopkin said. “It does 
not make any sense for A.S. [Council] 
and GSA to buy into there being any 
need to be out of this space. ”
The A.S. Council and GSA 
resolution focuses on reintegration 
of the Che Cafe Collective into the     
UCSD community.
However, the collective members 
expressed that the 2016 resolution is 
impractical since it is very difficult 
to sustain interests of the members 
during the lapse of evacuation.
Muir College junior Ariana Padilla, 
a core member of the collective, 
described how the resolution was 
designed adversely to the collective.
“The way it’s framed right now 
is [that the Che Cafe Collective] will 
be revisited in 2016 [to see if the 
conditions are met], ” Padilla said.  “So 
it’s not really guaranteed that we will be 
let back in our space. ”
Members of the collective also 
proposed a different approach to 
follow the administration’s order.
According to a collective member 
Richard Flahive, preparation on 
potential cooperation is vital                    
and urgent.
“If we are going to relocate, 
then there definitely should be set See STEAM , page 3
See  CHE , page 3
The UCSD Tritones performed at their Fourth Annual A Cappella Winter Show, held at The Loft this past Monday. The 
opening act featured the all-male American University group On A Sensual Note. Photo by Matthias Scheer / UCSD Guardian.
UC SYSTEM
The Obama administration 
appointed UCSD graduate DJ Patil 
to the positions of deputy chief 
technology officer for data policy and 
chief data scientist on Feb. 18.
Dr. Patil, who is the first-ever chief 
data scientist in the White House 
Office of Science and Technology 
Policy, explained the responsibilities 
of the unprecedented position on the 
official White House blog.
“My role as the U.S. CDS will be 
to responsibly source, process and 
leverage data in a timely fashion, to 
enable transparency, provide security 
and foster innovation for the benefit 
of the American public, in order to 
maximize the nation’s return on its investment in data, ” Patil said.
Patil added that he will focus on 
developing personalized health care 
and precision medicine through 
President Obama’s Precision Medicine 
Initiative, integrating data from 
multiple sources to make connected 
data sets and ethically executing data-
science policy.
According to UCSD mathematics 
professor David Meyer, Dr. Patil’s 
achievements are proof that an 
education in mathematics offers much 
more than moderate proficiency in 
arithmetic, and gives students an edge 
by encouraging critical thinking.
“DJ Patil’s success demonstrates the 
advantages that mathematical training 
provides. These are not, of course, the 
abilities to calculate using arithmetic, 
or algebra or even calculus, as we learn 
in elementary mathematics classes, ” Meyer told the UCSD Guardian. “But 
the abilities to conceptualize formally 
and construct ever deeper, consistent 
theories as we begin to learn in high 
school geometry and as math majors 
continue to develop in their upper-
division undergraduate courses. ”
Dr. Patil graduated from 
UCSD with a bachelor’s degree in 
mathematics in 1996 and went on 
to earn a doctoral degree in applied 
mathematics from the University 
of Maryland in 2001. Many people 
credit Patil for devising the term 
“data scientist” to define his job on 
networking sites earlier in his career. 
The field of data science encompasses 
several subjects within mathematics, 
Meyer told the Guardian.
“In the specific area of data Obama Selects Alumnus as Chief  Data Scientist
DJ Patil graduated from UCSD with a degree in mathematics and is a pioneer of data science.ALUMNI
See  PATIL , page 3B Y   kriti sarin 
associate news editorC.H.E. Cafe 
Collective 
Addresses  
VCSA Letter STUDENT ORGSAROUND CAMPUS2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MARCH 12, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG N EWS
AVERAGE CAT By Christina Carlson
Live without regrets, 
                      Learn without borders.
Discover where you’ll study abroad at usac.unr.edu
studyabroadusac@
USAC
DO Y OU TWEET? WE DO!
@UCSDGuar dian
@UCSDGuardianFOLLOW
US NOW!
...yes, now!
@UCSDGuardian#OMG! Follow us on Twitter #NOW! 
#OMG 
#LIKE US
#FOLLOW US
@ucsdguar dianScience and technology
Researchers Find Relationship Between Diabetes and Obesity
UCSD medical scientists demonstrated how obesity-related inflammation triggered insulin resistance, causing diabetes.
Researchers at the UCSD School 
of Medicine discovered a link between 
obesity and insulin resistance on Feb. 
23. Published in “Nature Medicine 
Magazine, ” their study explains how 
manipulating the inflammatory 
molecule LTB4 can prevent insulin 
resistance, which opens up a new 
potential pathway to solve epidemic 
diabetic problems.
Scientists were already aware 
of the fact that inflammation is 
directly related to insulin resistance. 
However, what researchers did not 
know was how to effectively prevent 
inflammation from causing insulin 
resistance. The study describes a new 
mechanism that blocks LTB4 from its receptors using small synthetic 
molecules called “LTB4 antagonists. ”
Senior author of the study, Dr. 
Jerrold M. Olefsky, discussed how the 
test subjects did not show any signs of 
diabetes.
“When we treated animals with that 
compound, we produced everything 
we were hoping for, ” Olefsky told 
the UCSD Guardian. “They didn’t 
develop diabetes. They didn’t develop 
insulin resistance. They didn’t develop 
inflammation. They were fine. ”
Obesity expands adipose tissue 
with immune cells, causing chronic 
inflammation. In the meantime, LTB4 
is released from the immune cells and 
binds to the receptors of other cells 
such as liver, fat and muscle cells. These 
cells eventually become inflamed and 
cause insulin resistance, which is the 
first step to Type-2 diabetes.Researchers experimented on mice 
whose cell receptors were blocked 
from LTB4. According to Olefsky, 
this new mechanism prevents insulin 
resistance, Type 2 diabetes and the 
metabolically harmful effects of 
obesity by avoiding inflammation.
 Pingping Li, who was on the 
research team, stated that the 
experiment may work on humans.
“In the animal work, we find that 
the effect is very dramatic. It’s a big 
effect, ” Li said. “If we can find the same 
effect on humans, it would be a very 
big deal. ”
According to Olefsky, safe synthetic 
molecules that can be applied to 
humans are currently unavailable.
“[The current synthetic molecule’s] 
half-life is way too long to use in 
people, and the doses are too high, ” 
Olefsky said.A pharmaceutical company is in 
the process of finding human-safe 
molecules. At first, the company 
will experiment on monkeys and 
eventually on human bodies, 
depending on the experiment’s safety 
and efficiency on monkeys.
If successful, the medication will 
prevent people from developing Type-
2 diabetes and provide an effective 
treatment for people who have already 
developed the disease.
The ultimate goal of the research 
team is to focus on finding practical 
medical solutions for diabetes.
“If I could somehow help to 
develop a drug that treats diabetes, 
that certainly would be the long-range 
goal, ” Olefsky said. “That would be 
the dream. ”B Y BRUCE B.Y. LEE
Contributing Writer
bruce B.y. Lee   byl019@ucsd.edu readers can contact
BRI EFSjacky to  SENIOR STAFF WRITER BY
▶ Price Center Arson:
The sentencing hearing for the two UCSD students guilty of setting a fire in 
a Price Center restroom in late 2013 was pushed back a full year, according to 
the San Diego County District Attorney, from March 8, 2015 to the same date 
in 2016.
Hoai Vi Holly Nguyen and Maya Land initially faced four separate charges for 
igniting a pair of fires and pled not guilty for all of them. However, according to 
Nguyen’s legal counsel Eugene Iredale, after further review of the prosecution’s 
evidence, both opted to instead plead guilty last September to reckless endanger -
ment for one of the fires.
Police arrested Nguyen and Land last February after a surveillance video 
surfaced online that placed the two in the vicinity of PC around the time of 
the PC fires, which were set on Dec. 3, 2013. This was the same day that the 
University Centers Advisory Board announced plans to open a Starbucks in 
place of Espresso Roma Cafe. Follow Us
on Facebook
& Twitter
@ucsdguardianThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and 
Thursdays during the academic year by UCSD students 
and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this 
newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, 
without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2014, all 
rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible 
for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The 
views expressed herein do not necessarily represent 
the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of 
California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is 
funded by advertising. “What’s St. Patrick’s Day?”
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.orgBusiness Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Aleksandra Konstantinovic
Andrew E. Huang  
Taylor Sanderson
Tina Butoiu
Kriti Sarin
Charu Mehra
Cassia Pollock
Brandon Yu
John Story
Teiko Yakobson
Jacqueline Kim
Kyle Somers
Nilu Karimi
Siddharth Atre
Jonathan Gao
Joselynn Ordaz
Sherman Aline
Elyse Yang
Annie Liu
Rosina Garcia
Laura Chow
Vincent PhamEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
  
Associate News Editor
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Social Media Coordinator
Training and Development
Page Layout
Allison Kubo. Sidney Gao
Distribution
Christopher Graves, Josef Goodyear
Copy Readers
Andrew Chao, Caroline Lee, Micaela Stone
Editorial Assistants
Shelby Newallis, Jennifer Grundman,  
Karly Nisson, Mario Attie, Marcus ThuillierN EWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MARCH 12, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
this claim. 
Gatto compared the proposed 
new campus to a public version of the 
California Institute of Technology, 
which the U.S. News and World 
report ranks as the 10th best univer -
sity in the nation. According to the 
press release, the new UC campus 
has the potential to save students 
money who would otherwise pay 
Caltech a tuition of at least $120,000 
over four years. 
However, Gatto’s proposal for a 
new UC campus comes at a time 
when Gov. Jerry Brown and UC 
President Janet Napolitano are still in the middle of negotiating the 
future of the UC system’s funding. 
UC President Janet Napolitano 
and the UC regents have decided 
to raise tuition fees as much as five 
percent in each of the next five years 
if state revenue cannot meet the sys -
tem’s funding demands.
In terms of how to fund the cre -
ation of a new UC campus, Gatto 
told the Los Angeles Times that the 
state’s budget now has a surplus that 
he believes could help. 
“We have the resources for the 
first time in a long, long time, ” Gatto 
said. 
University Office of the President 
Media Specialist Brooke Converse told the UCSD Guardian that the 
UCOP has not yet taken a stance on 
the bill.
“The bill is currently being ana -
lyzed and we do not have a position 
at this time, ” Converse said.
Gatto said that he would prefer 
the location of the new campus to 
be in the Los Angeles area or near 
Silicon Valley, but he also acknowl -
edged that the decision of where 
the school would be built ultimately 
belongs to the UC regents.Gatto Says State Has the Resources to Create a New UC Campus
Br ynna bol t bbolt@ucsd.edu readers can contact
Community Members Optimistic About the C.H.E. Cafe’s Future ▶ STEAM,  from page 1
guidelines, ” Flahive said. “There 
needs to be a framework set that the 
administration can also honor that 
would allow us to come back in this 
space. ”
The Che Cafe Collective is a worker 
cooperative and social center at UCSD 
campus that hosted live music since 
the 1960s. Bands such as Nirvana and Green Day have performed on the 
collective’s stage.
With different generations of the 
collective members supporting the 
effort to save the space, the collective 
seemed determined to find ways to 
settle the issue. 
“I am optimistic. There is no reason 
for us, based on the history of the 
co-op, to be pessimistic, ” Kroopkin 
said. “I think we are going be here for a long, long time. ”
A.S. Council and GSA passed the 
joint resolution on Feb. 18 to form a 
Che Collective Campus Reintegration 
Committee. The committee will aim 
to make the Collective more student-
centered before the re-examination of 
the facility’s conditions in Fall of 2016.
bruce B.y. Lee   byl019@ucsd.edu readers can contact▶ CHE,  from page 1Looking for the 
New Business 
Column?
Now posted every Wednesday 
night, after the A.S. Council 
meeting, online.
ucsdguardian.orgProfessors Believe Mathematical Training is Essential to Other Fields
science — a term perhaps coined by 
Patil — traditional statistics are part 
of mathematics, modern machine 
learning methods add linear algebra 
and statistical mechanics for deep 
learning and cutting edge methods, 
such as topological data analysis and 
algebraic statistics, draw upon more 
advanced mathematics, including 
algebraic topology, differential 
geometry and algebraic geometry. ”
Meyer also said that a solid 
mathematical education is necessary now more than ever to understand 
data science and other progressively 
relevant fields.
“Ubiquitous and increasing 
computational power and, more 
generally, automation have made 
many of the skill sets acquired by 
former generations of students 
obsolete, ” Meyer explained. “Science 
and engineering education continues 
to instill relevant skills, however, 
and mathematics underlies all of 
these technical subjects, making 
it an increasingly crucial part 
of undergraduate and graduate education. ”
Meyer added that he hopes Patil’s 
accomplishments will help students 
view mathematics as more than just a 
basis for calculations.
“Ideally, his successes would help 
students understand that while we 
have computers to calculate for us, 
mathematical training goes beyond 
calculation to provide a foundation for 
deciding what and how they should 
calculate, ” Meyer said.
 
kriti sarin   ksarin@ucsd.edu readers can contact▶ PATIL,  from page 14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MARCH 12, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CHARU  MEHRA
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
ILLUSTRATION BY JENNA MCCLOSKEYAbout 66 years ago, Eleanor 
Roosevelt and a diverse group 
of international activists 
came together to write a magnificent 
document known as the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights. My 
favorite tidbit happens to be Article 
19: “Everyone has the right to free -
dom of opinion and expression; this 
right includes freedom to hold opin -
ions without interference and to seek, 
receive and impart information and 
ideas through any media regardless 
of frontiers. ” Since then, censorship 
ceased to exist, euphemisms vanished 
from every language and the world 
collectively realized the absurdity in 
criminalizing ideas.
Hey, a man can dream, can’t he? 
But sometimes, I don’t mind sharing 
the same world with the overzealous, 
politically correct crusaders who are 
just a generation away from ensur -
ing that the entire English language 
qualifies as one big micro-aggression. 
They’re responsible for such wonder -
ful headlines like “UC Irvine Student 
Government Bans National Flags 
From Campus Area” — thus causing 
that “Oh my God, I’m not even read -
ing ‘The Onion’ right now” moment.
OK, enough with the coyness. 
Y ou’ve likely seen how the UC Irvine 
student council has been skewered 
across the political spectrum already, 
so I won’t have to bother. However, 
the writer of the resolution, Matthew 
Guevara, is correct on principle. The 
American flag does indeed mean 
many different things to many differ -
ent types of people. Having said that, 
he is wrong in practice.
Do we really have to drop every -
thing we deem offensive down 
the memory hole, as if we were all 
bureaucrats hired by the Ministry of 
Truth? Nobody can do this forever. 
Somewhere along the line, someone 
or something will exhibit an idea 
repugnant to your fundamental 
beliefs. It’ll make you shake. It’ll make 
you furious. Y ou might even want to 
weep. And you have to respond, but 
you won’t know how to do so after 
living a sheltered life lacking in any 
meaningful dissent.
This whole flag-banning situation 
has got me listening to Pink Floyd’s 
“The Wall” for like the 30th time. 
On that album, the character Pink 
experiences a life of personal isolation 
— symbolized by images of a tower -
ing wall — beginning with a child -
hood dominated by an overprotective 
parent. In the song “Mother, ” Roger 
Waters wistfully sings, “Mother, will 
she break my heart?”
Y ou don’t want to be like Pink’s 
mom, or worse, a Guevara. On the 
contrary, it’s much better to be a 
Roger Waters. I disagree with almost 
all of his views, but I respect both his 
willingness to creatively engage in an 
exchange of ideas, no matter how con -
troversial. That’s the kind of liberalism 
both progressives and conservatives 
can respect.
The alternative is a climate of fear 
in which opinions are discouraged 
and expression is severely curtailed. 
It would be a brave new world con -
trolled by nanny politicians who shel -
ter the people, and certainly for their 
best interest. And every time these 
control freaks accommodate some -
one’s discomfort, it’s just another brick 
in the wall.
Mother, did it need to be so high?Over the past weekend, sensationalistic 
headlines have blared, “Southern California 
School BANS the American Flag!” — often 
followed by an outraged analysis about how those 
darn liberal, college kids are destroying traditional 
American values.
As is usually the case, the truth about the 
proposed ban has far more nuance than can fit 
into click-bait headlines. This short-lived piece 
of legislation actually prohibited all flags from 
any nation from being displayed in a small lobby 
area in the UC Irvine student government offices. 
Additionally, it was by no means endorsed by the 
majority of the 30,000 UC Irvine students, as it 
was passed by six students on the A.S. UC Irvine 
legislative committee and quickly overturned by 
the Executive Cabinet. Three of the committee 
members have since offered public apologies.
One of the most concerning developments to 
come out of this story is that the legislative council 
that passed this ban has received threats of violence 
so serious that its March 10 meeting was canceled. 
No matter where you stand on flag displays, all 
reasonable people should agree that threatening 12 
college students with violence over a minor — albeit 
personal — legislative ruling that has had almost no real impact on anything for more than a day is 
alarmist, irresponsible and has no place in a healthy 
discussion about culture and patriotism.
With that being said, although we at the UCSD 
Guardian Editorial Board recognize that these six 
students voted to ban flags with positive intentions 
and for inclusive purposes, we find that it’s a 
situation where the hypercorrect approach actually 
did more harm than good.
First, it’s important to look at the reasoning 
behind the ban. These students believe that 
the American flag has historically been used 
in imperialist and colonial instances and isn’t 
conducive to a “culturally inclusive space [that] 
aims to remove barriers that create undue effort 
and separation by planning and designing spaces 
that enable everyone to participate equally and 
confidently. ”
Banning the flags from such a small space 
is only a monumental gain perhaps for those 
who go straight from their dorms to the student 
government offices without looking around. 
The American flag is on display throughout 
the campus, in front of city offices, on car 
bumpers and in just about every neighborhood. 
To pretend that the ban is a significant gesture 
See FLAG , page 5Students
At Irvine
Failed To Be
InclusiveThe Flag is Still There
The actions taken by a small group of  students at UC Irvine did little to actually 
affect positive change and instead reflected poorly on the university as a whole. 
Aleksandra Konstantinovic
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Andrew E. Huang
MANAGING EDITOR
Taylor Sanderson
MANAGING EDITOR  
Charu Mehra
OPINION EDITOR
Cassia Pollock
ASSOCIATE OPINION EDITOR
Tina Butoiu
NEWS EDITOR
Marcus Thuillier
SPORTS EDITORIAL ASSISTANT
Kyle Somers
ASSOCIATE A&E EDITOR
The UCSD Guardian is published twice weekly at the 
University of California at San Diego. Contents © 2014. 
Views expressed herein represent the majority vote of the edi -
torial board and are not necessarily those of the UC Board of 
Regents, the ASUCSD or the members of the Guardian staff. EDITORIAL  BOARD
A legislative bill has recently been pro -
posed to create a new UC campus that would 
go above and beyond students’ expectations of 
solving the University of California’s current 
fiscal crisis. The genius responsible for this 
idea is Assemblyman Mike Gatto (D-Glendale). 
Assembly Bill 1483 would provide $50 million 
toward the allocation of land and building costs 
for a new campus, located somewhere near Los 
Angeles or the Silicon Valley. Although some 
members of the UC system have expressed 
doubts about the affordability of this project, 
Gatto has claimed, “We have the resources for 
the first time in a long, long time. ” 
We have the resources? Let’s break this down. 
His magnificent proposal has appeared along -
side UC President Janet Napolitano and the 
UC Board of Regents’ initiative to raise student 
tuition systemwide by 5 percent for five con -
secutive years due to a lack of state funding and 
consecutive years full of budget cuts. According 
to the College Board’s data, tuition at public 
universities has risen by 136 percent in the past 
decade. The entire culture of the UC system has been permeated with financial uncertainty. 
Even though it has been 10 years since the most 
recent campus, UC Merced, was founded, its 
growth continues to be slowed by an absence of 
fiscal support. On the other hand, the regents 
passed a salary increase for UC chancellors 
across the state up to 20 percent last year. UC 
Berkeley Chancellor Nicholas Dirks holds the 
current record with an income of half a million 
dollars. But, according to Gatto, there’s a lot of 
unused money circulating throughout the sys -
tem that’s going to waste.
Furthermore, the 10 UC campuses have prov -
en to be lacking in certain areas that this unique 
university would compensate for. Unlike UCSD, 
this new and improved university would special -
ize in science, technology, engineering and art. 
No resemblance at all, right? As the controver -
sies regarding UC funding continue to heat up, 
Gatto refuses to be intimidated. In an interview, 
he said, “Maybe the answer is that simple and is 
staring us in the face: Create another campus. ”
However, financial matters are not the main 
focus of Gatto’s proposal. He mentioned that the state’s budget surplus would be a convenient way 
to finance the addition of a new UC campus, 
and the systemwide tuition hike is just a minor, 
insignificant detail. “I think a lot of the best 
ideas start with something that seems a little 
wild-eyed, ” Gatto said. The main point that he 
is trying to make is that many students are not 
getting access to the education that they deserve. 
The current UC system is failing to provide its 
students with the proper academic opportuni -
ties, and nobody’s willing to take action about 
it, except for Gatto. He has described the future 
campus as a “public version of Caltech, ” words 
that are uncannily similar to those once used to 
describe the rationale for the founding of UCSD. 
Never mind the fact that students who attend 
the current UC schools could benefit from the 
expansion of their housing and educational 
facilities or from more full-time professors or 
even better food on campuses. Apparently, there 
is no point in dealing directly with the night -
marish financial crisis of the current system. It’s 
far easier and much less stressful to just create 
an entirely new school altogether. New UC Campus Proposed Alongside Tuition Hikes, Budget Cutsjordan  utley-thomson
jutleyth@ucsd.eduguardian w a tch
OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MARCH 12, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
that is helping tons of students 
is insulting to those who do 
come from foreign countries, 
who probably have a much 
deeper understanding of cultural 
inclusivity through experience 
than to feel offended by a flag in a 
student government office. It’s over-
correcting a problem in a manner 
typically done by well-meaning 
people who tragically misinterpret 
the real issues at stake.  
It’s even arguable that banning 
all national flags, as the resolution 
did, is not only an overreaction 
to a limited problem but actually 
harmful in itself because it implies 
that cultural differences should be hidden away. Cultural studies 
across every UC campus advocate 
that the differences should be 
celebrated, explored, understood 
and, most importantly, taught. 
A truly inclusive space would 
foster these ideas through open 
conversation instead of trying to 
paper over cultural differences by 
pretending that they don’t exist — 
also known as the “ostrich method” 
of problem solving.
Furthermore, as the resolution 
itself admits, the U.S. flag is 
a symbol open to subjective 
interpretation, and, for many 
students, that interpretation is 
personally patriotic. Both born-
and-bred American and immigrant 
students can boast a connection to the American flag, and, for the 
latter group, their native flag as 
well.
We would typically applaud 
any student trying to make the UC 
campuses a more inclusive place 
because, let’s face it, we certainly 
could use it. But for six students to 
try and make a decision like this 
for a whole campus while insisting 
it’s for the benefit of a large number 
of students is counterproductive 
to actual strides toward greater 
equity on our campuses. Before 
we overcorrect, we should ask 
students if they have a problem 
first and then see what they’ d like 
to do about it, instead of imposing 
a decision that the majority clearly 
did not agree with in the first place.
Banning of  Flags Could Be Perceived as Doing More Harm Than Good
▶ FLAG , from page 4GOT ISSUES?
SEND YOUR 
LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGLETTER  TO  THE  EDITOR
Dear Editor,
Vice Chancellor-Student Affairs 
Juan Gonzalez has issued a letter 
to the Che Cafe asking members 
to vacate the building by March 14 
or the 5-day eviction notice will be 
served, sparking backlash from the 
collective and members of student 
government. F                  or what -
ever reason, the administration 
does not want the Che here.
This letter uses safety to justify 
the separation of the Che from the 
space, citing a January 2015 report 
that states the building is unable 
to support a fire sprinkler system. 
However, California Building 
Standards, which the UC system 
follows, clearly state that sprinkler 
system requirement only applies to 
new buildings. That same report 
also cites fire marshal requirements. 
Y et, University Centers Associate 
Director John Payne says of the fire 
marshal’s 2014 follow-up inspection 
that the facility is “good in terms of 
fire safety. ”
Since the fire safety issue is 
resolved, there is reason to question 
administration’s agenda. A building 
that needs repairs is not necessarily 
completely unusable.
Recent A.S. Council and Graduate 
Student Association resolutions call 
for the Che to program outside the 
space for a year and a half (called the 
reintegration/interim period), with 
the possibility of getting the building 
back at the end. With a history like 
the Che’s, the collective has reason 
to be wary of conditional re-entry. 
In his article, “The Spirit of the Che, ” 
Scott Kessler explains that, more than once, the University has claimed the 
building needing costly repairs to 
meet health and safety requirements. 
In response, students took the repair 
of the Che into their own hands, at a 
fraction of the quoted cost. 
There are certainly Che allies in 
A.S. Council and the GSA. The reso -
lution calls on the University to enter 
the interim as well. Y et, the admin -
istration is waving the eviction like a 
pistol, threatening to shoot and end it 
all now if the collective doesn’t move. 
Student government members have 
made it known that the letter does 
not represent their hopes for the Che.
The Che has been a safe, sober 
space to explore non-mainstream 
ideas for decades. The collective has 
hosted countless events, from film 
showings to concerts to art shows. 
Chancellor Khosla states, “It is vital ... 
that the larger number of those who 
are comfortable with the campus cli -
mate do not overwhelm the voices of 
smaller populations who are not com -
fortable. ” But he fails to acknowledge 
the 22 percent of students (University 
Centers survey) who believe the Che 
is not low priority. 
Student action and voices, 
directed at chancellors and student 
government, have historically been 
an effective barrier between the co-
ops and destruction. If the space is 
seized, there’s no guarantee it can be 
returned to the people who make it a 
welcoming and unique environment. 
Furthermore, this opens the door to 
labeling other student coops “unsus -
tainable. ” If the administration can 
take away student run spaces, what 
do we really have?
— Raquel Calderon
Muir College JuniorThe C.H.E. and What 
the Battle All Means6 WEEKEND ARTS   |   FOOD & DRINK   |   LIVING   |   FILM  &  TV   |   MUSIC   |   THINGS  TO  DO
David Brin, on the best thing a college student can do:
Put a map of the university on the wall, and, once a month, throw a dart at it. Now if you really want to, you can take a leaky pen and 
shake it over it. Same effect. Wherever the dart or ink spot lands — if it lands near or next to a building — you gather together your best 
pal [and] go to that building on campus, along with a set of D&D dice and a rubber ball. Stand outside the building and use the appro -
priate die to roll a random floor. Go to that floor. Roll [the ball] down the hall. Wherever the ball stops, pick it up so no one trips, knock 
on the door and say, “Excuse me, what do you do here?” Now, you can stretch your mind and see what my point is […] Now, that’s the 
difference between coming here and doing this by rote, and deciding that by the time four years are up, you will have squeezed this place. 
On the Arthur C. Clarke Center for Human Imagination at UCSD (on which Brin collaborates 
with):
The Arthur Clarke Foundation wanted to create a center for academic excellence exploring the wellsprings, the boundaries, the efficient 
practice and the limitations, of imagination. Arthur combined science and art and perceived no intrinsic chasm between them. [Director] 
Sheldon Brown and I and a few others decided that there would be no better place in the world for such a center of research than here at 
UCSD, where official boundaries between categories are merely suggestions and collaborations between faculty are as frequent as three-
leaf clovers. That supposition turned out to be right, when every dean on campus signed on to support the new Clarke center. But it’s only 
one example of many on this campus, where distinguished scholars are unafraid of being on a first-name basis with students as collabora -
tors in exciting research and exploring bold ideas. If any place on Earth represents what we hope for the 21st century, you’re sitting on it. 
On the divide between the humanities and arts and STEM fields:
This chasm is now easily bridged by men and women of good will. Above good will is the trait of curiosity. Does the adventure out -
weigh your prim need for egotistical boundaries? I am old enough to remember when the question didn’t have an obvious answer. 
Today, the finest minds at almost any university would answer ‘yes.’ How well they execute such collaborations is another matter.
On his writing process:
My process is not as disciplined as it ought to be. I suppose it’s so, but it doesn’t feel like it. I’ve done better, swifter writing with an out -
line. But it’s not as fun. When I start a story and truly have no way to know where it’s going except some general notion. It’s kind of like 
falling in love — you get a wider range of emotions. Those include frustration, agony and procrastination. But the rewards are very good.
On the current age and advice for everyone:
Our grandchildren will either live in hell or in “Star Trek. ” What could be a more fascinating era? If you had to choose a time, how 
could you choose any other? Be insatiable. Satiation is one of the great hallmarks of sanity but not when it comes to curiosity. There 
is an admission of self-imposed limitation. Y ou have to be able to say ‘Thank you, I’ve had enough’ when it comes to food, chemicals 
and life’s other pleasures but not in curiosity. If you accept any limits there, then you are not militant enough a member of this revo -
lution; you don’t deserve to call yourself a citizen of wonder. But there’s hope. Y ou can always find a way to become more insatiable.
 Q&A
Da vid   brin
Interviewed by
Allison Kubo // Staff Writer 
Jennifer Grundman // Editorial Assistant
Perhaps the pithiest description of UCSD alumnus David Brin is that he’s a man with a wide breadth of talents and opinions. 
Over the course of his life, he has established himself as a respected physicist and an award-winning science-fiction writer whose 
work has spanned comic books and Hugo Award-winning novels. He denounces Y oda as a purely evil character, “Star Wars” for an 
antidemocratic agenda and believes we are either heading for a “Star Trek” future or an utterly dystopian one. As an interviewee, he’s a 
slippery man who would rather break free of interview questions and deliver his thoughts on topics of  his own choosing. We let him.USED WITH PERMISSION FROM DAVID BRINWEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MARCH 12, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
Volunteers are needed for a genomics 
research study that will help to improve  
our understanding of human genes and 
how they relate to the face and voice.
REV. 20150224FOR MORE INFORMATION OR TO VOLUNTEER  
FOR THIS STUDY, PLEASE CONTACT:
FACE@HUMANLONGEVITY.COM
You will be asked to answer  
a pre-enrollment question- naire and participate in  
a measurement session.
Measurements include:
• 3D photography of your  
face and ears• Height, weight, BMI
• Digital photos  of hands and feet
• Voice recording
• Blood drawWHAT IS INVOLVED
• Assisting in scientific 
research
• Advancing human  genomic studies• Compensation for  your participation
• $100 for the first  300 participantsBENEFITS OF PARTICIPATING
• Men and women of all races 
and ethnicities who are 18 years of age and older• Ability to speak, read and write EnglishELIGIBILITY CRITERIA
HUMAN LONGEVITY, INC.  
FACE STUDY  
PI: DR. RHONDA ROBY #12899814.0WEEKEND8     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MARCH 12, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
 The experience of every respon -
sible brunch enthusiast starts 
miles away from the restau -
rant. It is hard to feel adventurous 
in the morning, so, to avoid possible 
disappointments, it’s always best to 
take a look at a restaurant’s web -
site prior to your visit. This is when 
Shorehouse Kitchen, a restaurant 
conveniently located near UCSD, 
starts to win a foodie’s heart. The site 
is easy to navigate — the “ About Us” 
section includes exactly what a poten -
tial client wants to know; instead of a 
long and useless history of the eatery, 
it tells us about top-notch ingredients 
used to make a delicious Shorehouse 
Kitchen brunch. Local beans? Real 
maple syrup? Pastries baked right 
before you eat them? The UCSD 
Guardian could not miss this!
What makes Shorehouse Kitchen 
ideal for UCSD students is its loca -
tion. Whether you have a car or not, 
you can get to this place in less than 
20 minutes. It is also a block away 
from the bus stop, which makes qual -
ity breakfast food closer than ever. 
The restaurant is not only conve -
niently located but also designed in 
a very clever manner. From the out -
side, it looks like a little farmhouse 
or a fancy horse stable, a great move 
that rightfully convinces customers 
that all the food Shorehouse Kitchen 
serves is fresh and organic. 
The “house” itself is divided into 
four sections. First, you’ll notice a 
small outdoor waiting area with four 
tables and umbrellas — a great deci -sion considering there are often a lot 
of people waiting to be seated on a 
busy Saturday morning (the waiters 
seem to have a “no-rush” attitude). 
The second section is a small coffee 
bar where you can grab a coffee made 
from Calabria Coffee Roasters beans 
and a pastry to go. The third section 
consists of indoor seating. It is almost 
empty in the morning but gets busier 
as the sun goes down and the cold sets 
in. Last but not least is the patio. This 
is where the most action happens, 
creating a vibrant and cheerful atmo -
sphere of the restaurant. Occupied by 
families, couples and groups of young 
people, Shorehouse Kitchen becomes 
the center of attention in a quiet La 
Jolla neighborhood.
In spite of rather long working 
hours, Shorehouse Kitchen is spe -
cifically renowned for its late break -
fast — offered until 2:30 p.m. It is 
not surprising, since the restaurant 
is well-equipped for providing you 
with the first meal of the day. Craving 
eggs? Shorehouse Kitchen has three 
types of omelets ($12.50), five types 
of benedicts ($12.50 to $13.50) and 
simple egg and toast options ($6 to 
$9.90). Woke up late, hungry and 
looking for something meaty? Take 
a look at the “More Favorites” sec -
tion with Brioche Breakfast Grilled 
Cheese ($12.50) stuffed with bacon, 
sausages, eggs and tomatoes, Short 
Rib Hash & Eggs ($13) or Pork 
Carnitas Chilaquiles: tender pork 
and two eggs served over a mix of 
Mexican-style vegetables. Sweet tooth 
never satisfied? Delicious buttermilk or cornmeal pancakes ($7 to $10) 
with the option of fresh blueberries 
(+$1.50) or two slices of Caramelized 
Tahitian Vanilla Bean French Toast 
($10 or $12 with grilled pineapple, 
fresh berries or bananas and Chantilly 
Cream) will do the trick!
Shorehouse Kitchen does not add 
anything revolutionary to the break -
fast experience. However, while the 
food is well-made to average, one 
should still give Shorehouse Kitchen 
some credit for its impressive variety 
of drinks. There are 13 types of soda 
($3.25 to $3.50), including Mexican 
Coke, 14 kinds of coffee drinks ($1.75 
to $4), 13 different beers ($4 to $6) 
and, ladies and gentlemen, “the fresh -
est orange juice around” made from 
Valencia Oranges — the most popu -
lar juice oranges in the U.S. Keeping 
in mind how hard it is to find good 
fresh-squeezed orange juice, do your -
self a favor and order a 9-ounce glass 
of O.J. ($3.50) or a 12-ounce glass 
($4.25) or even one liter ($11)! And 
don’t forget, mimosas contain orange 
juice too, so consider grabbing a glass 
of Shorehouse Mimosas ($7) to com -
plete your brunch.
Shorehouse Kitchen is a tradi -
tional brunch place that does not dis -
appoint. With its convenient location 
and late breakfasts, what would be a 
rating of 3.5 for an average customer 
becomes a solid 4.5 for a college stu -
dent. Why not a 5.0? Well, because we 
all are still broke. 
—    Olga  Golubkov a
 Staff WRITEr
REST AURANT   REVIEWPHOTO BY MATTHIAS SCHEER/ UCSD GUARDIAN
HOURS:
Mon. to Tues. 7:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m.
Wed. to Sun. 7:30 a.m. to 9 p.m.
(barista and pastries open at 7 a.m.)LOCATION:
2236 Avenida De La Playa
La Jolla, CA (858) 459-3300$$
Nobody can ever accuse 
director Neill Blomkamp 
of not being a fan of ro -
bots. The director has made a name for 
himself by creating some of the most 
realistic and viscerally “worn-in, ” near-
future sci-fi realities in film. Blom -
kamp’s robot suits in “District 9” had 
real weight to them, and the welding of 
man and machine in his “Elysium” was 
alarming in its realism. With “Chap -
pie, ” Blomkamp has gone all the way and made a robot his main character. 
Interestingly, the film almost has 
two separate plots: The first and larg -
est follows a roboticist (Dev Patel) in 
his journey to create true artificial 
intelligence, and the curious and im -
pressionable robot Chappie (voiced 
by Sharlto Copley) that results. The 
segments of the film that follow 
Chappie as he learns his first words, 
human values and even the stirrings 
of faith are immediately arresting 
in terms of the pathos Blomkamp’s technical wizards at Weta Workshop 
(the geniuses behind “The Lord of 
the Rings” and “ Avatar, ” among many 
others) have managed to create. 
The problem is the film isn’t all 
Chappie. As fantastic as Copley’s 
performance is — a long-time col -
laborator with Blomkamp since he 
played the sniveling Wikus “hero” in 
“District 9” — we have to put up with 
other human characters and plots. 
This second main plot follows Hugh 
Jackman, who plays an ambiguously 
ex-military office jock, as he tries to 
… sabotage the entire city of Johan -
nesburg in order to get his R&D proj -
ect funded? His plan, and this plot, is 
all very unclear and downright silly in 
many places. The key problem is that 
this is the plot that takes over Chap -
pie’s central plotline, starting in the 
last third of the film. To be frank, it turns what could have been a very 
thoughtful picture about artificial 
intelligence into your basic Holly -
wood big-budget slugfest. It’s crimi -
nally disappointing in this regard. 
Other elements and scenes are 
laughable. The big, traditional Hol -
lywood shootout is somehow both 
too grievous and grotesquely funny at 
the same time, and will probably go 
down as one of the worse climactic 
battles this year in cinema. Charac -
ters we don’t care about bite the dust 
left and right, characters we do care 
about bite the dust in really strange 
and funny cuts of footage that invite 
scattered laughter from the audience. 
Chappie’s relationship with his “par -
ents” in the midst of all the gunfire is 
the only strong thing about this scene. 
It’s a hard movie to dislike simply 
because the Chappie segments are so strong. The characters that raise 
Chappie (down-on-their-luck coun -
ter-culture types who paint as readily 
as they rob armored cars) are all really 
fascinatingly flawed characters, and 
the values that Chappie picks up from 
them as his “mommy” and “daddy” 
are easily the best parts of the film. 
Patel’s roboticist himself comes across 
largely as a wet blanket and has some 
pretty terrible lines. But it’s entirely 
possible that struggling through his 
and Jackman’s scenes is really worth it, 
just to see a scene of Chappie petting 
a dog. The effects work is simply mag -
ic, and “Chappie” may not be a film 
ready to enter into the pantheon of 
great and thoughtful science fiction, 
but its eponymous hero certainly is. FILM   REVIEW
Directed by  Neil Blomkamp
Starring   Sharlto Copley, Dev Patel, Yo-Landi Visser, Hugh Jackman
Rated R
Release Date March 6“Chappie” has strong robot drama, but its humans are 
a little squishy, exacerbating a weak overall storyline. chappieUSED WITH PERMISSION FROM COLUMBIA PICTURES
—    na than  cook
 Staff WRITEr
ROCKLAND
by  Ka tzenjammer
Release Date March 10
Norwegian girl group returns with its most 
varied, if messy and chaotic full-length yet. 
ALBUM   REVIEW
$$$
Admittedly, there is some -
thing charming about those 
strange phrases that get 
churned out of online translators. 
Lines like “He’s acting just like a 
Snuffleupagus/ That makes my peo -
ple uneasy/ …/ In my emo prison I’ll 
be” are, in short, an amalgam of ran -
dom words that just had to be pulled 
out of Google Translate’s hat. Right?
Except those verses weren’t 
churned up by an online translator. 
They’re actual lyrics written rather 
earnestly by Scandinavian pop quar -
tet Katzenjammer. It’s not the first 
time that the band has been, well, 
weird. Aside from the fact that its 
name means “cat’s wail” or “hang -
over” in German, the group has 
been the embodiment of eclectic 
and eccentric since breaking out in 
the Oslo scene 10 years ago. Its de -
but “Le Pop” was essentially a psy -
chedelic clown fest, and its poignant 
follow-up “ A Kiss Before Y ou Go” 
embraced Baroque pop steampunk. 
Unsurprisingly, there was no telling 
what the brilliant and bizarre Kat -
zenjammer had in store with its lat -
est album, “Rockland. ”
What has resulted from the 
minds of the four multi-instru -
mentalists is an LP that hasn’t fully 
planted its feet in one crazy theme 
as its predecessors have. The quartet 
restlessly travels across a variety of 
narratives, from a Western saloon in 
the twangy opener “Old De Spain” to a charming Celtic landscape in 
the jig-rousing riffs of “My Dear. ” 
There’s no real overall tone that con -
nects these disparate tracks. At one 
moment, the band gets in touch with 
its grungy side in the incomprehen -
sible “Oh My God” (see above for a 
taste of its lyrical ridiculousness), 
and in the next, the musicians are 
plinking away at a toy piano in the 
delightful “Dry Pop. ”
In the big picture, the album is a 
mess. But perhaps that’s what makes 
each individual track so charismatic, 
unabashedly showing off Katzen -
jammer’s versatility in this orga -
nized chaos. “Rockland” is a bit of a 
misnomer, as none of the tracks can 
really be considered rock. Instead, 
they boldly stride on a tightrope of 
indie folk-slash-chamber pop.
Nah, scratch that. This is Katzen -
jammer: They’re as slippery as an al -
ley cat sneaking around, refusing to 
be labeled or owned by anyone — or 
in this band’s case, a genre. This al -
bum might not be as coherent as the 
group’s past works, but that’s okay, 
because every single song is teeming 
with the talent and effort that these 
snarky ladies put in. “Rockland” 
should probably have been called 
“Katzenjammerland, ” but does it 
matter? We’re warmly welcome to it.
—    Jacqueline    Kim 
A&E EDITORWEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MARCH 12, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
New Y ear, 
New Goals! 
Start Y our Graduate 
Degree at APU.  
16176
Find your program today!  
apu.edu/programs
Choose from:
Business and Leadership  
MBA, Management, Leadership, Accounting
Health Care  
Athletic Training, Physical Therapy, Nursing
Education  
Educational Leadership, School Counseling and School Psychology, 
Teacher Education, Higher Education
Helping Professions  
MFT, Psychology, Social WorkJoin the 
4,200+ graduate students  
currently advancing 
their education  
at APU.
Azusa  |  High Desert  |  Inland Empire  |  Los Angeles 
Murrieta  |  Orange County  |  San Diego  |  OnlineOccupations that require a master’s degree are projected to grow the 
fastest over the next eight years, making graduate school a worthwhile investment as you prepare to impact your field. Start planning now 
and further your career goals with a graduate degree from Azusa 
Pacific University, one of the nation’s top Christian universities. Hand. Cannot. Erase.
by  Steven   Wilson
Release Date March 3
Ambitious progressive rock artist falls short 
lyrically despite impressive arrangements.ALBUM   REVIEW
Concept albums have always 
blurred the musical line 
between genius and pre -
tentiousness. For those who don’t 
know, concept albums are a set of 
songs that all connect in some way, 
usually through a single story or 
narrative. Steven Wilson’s new al -
bum “Hand. Cannot. Erase. ” was 
compared to Pink Floyd’s “The 
Wall” — sometimes considered the 
best concept album of all time — by 
“Visions, ” a German magazine. This 
made some people curious. Frankly, 
“Hand. Cannot. Erase. ” is enjoyable, 
but it’s not going to rewrite music 
history like Pink Floyd’s album did.
Wilson’s genre here is progressive 
metal, which would be like if normal 
metal chilled the fuck out and went 
to college to get a degree in literature 
or jazz studies. True to the form of 
that niche of music, there are just as 
many scorching guitar solos as there 
are jazz-inspired chord changes 
and Igor Stravinsky-esque time-
signature choices, and Wilson is 
an expert at putting those elements 
together, as he does most flawlessly 
on “ Ancestral” and “3 Y ears Older. ” 
Rather than setting the volume knob 
at 11 and the guitar distortion at full 
blast, Wilson appreciates subtlety 
and gives equal time on the album 
to every dynamic and feeling. This 
constantly creates arriving points, 
peaks and releases moving from 
wild “Regret #9” to calm, gloomy “Transience” to the creepy sonic 
pinnacle of the album, “ Ancestral. ”
Sonically, the album doesn’t quite 
stack up with the cataclysmic highs 
and lows of “The Wall” (if we’re 
sticking with that comparison), but 
“Hand. Cannot. Erase” might have 
come close in overall quality if the 
lyrics could carry the album’s theme 
in a graceful way. But they don’t, at 
least not consistently. Sections of 
thoughtful, gloomy lyrics are occa -
sionally interrupted by cheesy, tired 
lines like, “I feel I’m falling once 
again/ But now there’s no one left to 
catch me. ” Good concept albums are 
like good literature: It’s fun to pick 
through the words to find hidden 
symbolism and meanings, so when 
the lyrics on a few songs fall short, 
the whole album does.
In an album this complex, there 
are plenty of redeeming values to 
mention like the telling narrative in 
“Perfect Life” or the wispy female 
vocals in “Routine, ” but when you’ve 
been told that it will stack up to a 
masterpiece, the faults really stand 
out. So here’s a favor for you: “Hand. 
Cannot. Erase. ” album is decent. Lis -
ten to it with that expectation and 
you’ll probably enjoy it. Y ou might 
even find it to be great.
—    Kyle  Somers
 ASSOCIATE A&E EDITOR
chappie
find more
 content 
online at
ucsdguardian.org10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MARCH 12, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
CLASSIFIEDS$
Guar dian Classi/f_ieds ar e FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifieds
BIKES
Fuji Bike for Sale - $800. Selling my Fuji A6 SL 
6066. The frame alone cost me over $1000. 
Only rode it a couple of times, so it’s in like new 
condition. It’s just a little too large for me, so 
I’m selling it to buy a smaller one. Listing ID: 
129530596 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
Schwinn Mountain Bike - $25. Schwinn moun -
tain bike. 24” wheels, low mileage, stored 
indoors since new. Listing ID: 129530594at ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Nice Pink Aluminum Beach Cruiser with 7 
Speeds - $140. Aluminum frame and crank as 
well as many of the other parts, so it’s light -
weight and those parts won’t rust. Front and 
rear hand brakes for safety, and comes with a 
goofy squeaky toy for a bell. Attractive condi -
tion and no issues. Everything works! Full size 
bike for teens or adult, tires are 26” in size. 
Listing ID: 129122615 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
ELECTRONICS
17.3” HP Laptop...Intel i5, Beats Audio, Bluray, 
Works Great - $300. 17.3” (dv7-4180us) Intel i5 
@ 2.5 ghz, 6 gig, 640 gb, Beats audio, Blu-ray/
dvdrw. Excellent extended battery and charger. 
Windows 7 (Factory reset) dual graphics. Works 
great, attractive condition (a few scratches on 
the outside). Listing ID: 129530619 at ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more informationPink iPod Nano - $40. 8gb pink nano. Listing ID: 
129122647 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
Nikon D3200 Lenses, Tripod, Case - $700. Like 
new condition Nikon D3200, includes two 
Zoom Lenses 55-200mm and 18-55 mm wide 
angle and telephoto lenses. Tripod, carrying 
case, strap, cleaning kit, SD card, extra battery, 
charger, USB, owner’s manual. All equipment 
in original boxes. Listing ID: 129530618 at ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more information
FURNITURE
Vintage Golden Oak Dresser Piece - $15. I sold 
the dresser this case from about 2 yrs. ago, but 
recently found this piece that belonged to it. 
If you are refinishing or repairing an antique 
dresser and need a piece, this could be it. Solid 
oak, medium golden brown. Dresser was 1920-
30s era. Listing ID: 128532833 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
Full and Queen Futon Mattresses - $100. Tri fold -
ing mattresses like new - were covered when 
used. There is a queen and full size. These are 
not the kind that go on American futon bed 
frames. These could go on any platform style 
bed or on the floor as tall cushions. Asking $100 
for each. Listing ID: 127977696 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
Sleeper Sofa Microfiber - $175. Sleeper sofa 
microfiber. Excellent condition. Used by only 
me, now in storage and need to clear it. Listing 
ID: 125416649 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
t
your visio n,
our missio n.
outfitters@ucsd.eduCreate custom a pparel to 
promote your student 
organiza tion with Triton 
Outfitter's new Made TO Order program!www.ucsdguardian.org/advertising
.com/ucsdguardian
.com/ucsdguardianLA JOLLA INSTITUTE NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
DRAFT ENVIR ONMENT AL IMP ACT REPOR T
Tuesday, March 31, 2015 at 6:00 p.m.
UCSD the Ida and Cecil Green Faculty ClubCENTER FOR NO VEL THERAPEUTICS
The University of California, San Diego (UCSD) is the lead agency for the Center for 
Novel Therapeutics (CNT) project. The proposed CNT would conduct novel therapeutic, 
prevention, diagnostic, and imaging intervention-directed research and seeks to bring 
together necessary multidisciplinary expertise to discover new, more effective treatment, 
diagnostic, and prevention interventions, and shorten the time required to bring these new 
interventions to clinical trials. 
The project would include the design and construction of an approximately 120,000 gross 
square foot (GSF) building within the UCSD Science Research Park (SRP). The 30-acre 
SRP is located at the eastern edge of the campus just west of Regents Road, and was 
graded in 2002 to create five building pads to accommodate future growth of 650,000 
GSF total.  Utilities and infrastructure were also installed at that time to support the 
planned build out scenario.  CNT would be the second building to locate in the SRP.  The 
CNT is envisioned as a three story structure that would include one level of underground 
parking and is identified as Building Lot #4 in the SRP Design Concept.  Utility connec-
tions are locally available in the SRP.  The project site includes Building Lots #2 and #3 
which would be paved for surface parking until such time as a building program for those 
lots is identified.  The project would seek to achieve Leadership in Energy Efficient Design 
Gold rating from the U.S. Green Building Council.  A public hearing to take public 
comment on the Draft EIR will be held at the time and place described below.
Enter the UCSD Campus via Muir College Drive and follow the signs to the Faculty Club 
parking lot P206.  Park in spaces marked “Reserved for Faculty Club”.  Enter the building on 
the west side and ask the receptionist for a parking pass to place on your car dashboard. The 
hearing will be held in the Faculty Club’s Seuss Library. Directions can be found at
at http://facclub.ucsd.edu/mod_AboutUs/Directions.aspx 
Written and oral statements from interested persons or groups will be accepted at the hearing 
for entry into the administrative record.  A transcript of the hearing will be included in the 
Final EIR.  Copies of the Draft EIR may be viewed at:
http://physicalplanning.ucsd.edu/environmental/pub_notice.html
or by contacting the UCSD Physical & Community Planning Office, 9500 Gilman Drive, La 
Jolla, CA  92093-0074, (858) 534-5352.  Public review of the Draft EIR will extend from 
March 3 to April 16, 2015.  Any comments regarding the accuracy of the project EIR should 
be directed to the UCSD Physical & Community Planning Office at the above address.Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies 
on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.ukLevel: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
Level:
12
34Level:
12
34Level: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
SUDOKU
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MARCH 12, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
free food!
free scantrons!free blue books!MONDA Y , MAR 23RD
PC BALLROOMS A/B
10:00PMThe No. 28 UCSD baseball team extended its 
win streak to five after a four-game series sweep 
of California Collegiate Athletic Association 
rival No. 20 Chico State. The Tritons now stand 
at 17–7 overall and place first in the CCAA 
with a 13–3 conference record coming off their 
fourth-straight conference-series win. 
With 16 games played, UCSD is enjoying a 
four-game advantage over second-ranked Cal 
State Monterey Bay (9–3) in the conference.
 The Friday night opener at Triton Ballpark 
offered a marquee matchup on the mound as 
junior right-hander Triton ace Justin Dona -
tella (4–1) swapped innings with Chico State 
All-American senior right-hander Luke Barker 
(1–1). Donatella prevailed in the end with a 6–0 
shutout win after just over seven frames. He also 
struck out nine to bring his total to 42 strikeouts 
in 2015, the best of any pitcher in the CCAA, 
and lowered his ERA to 0.28, which is another 
conference best.
 “Really the focus for me today was winning 
pitches, ” Donatella told the UCSD Athletics De -
partment. “I try to make it just like every other 
start, but there’s going to be a little adrenaline 
going whenever you play these guys. ”
 With his unbelievable 31-inning shutout 
streak and superb performance in the Chico 
State series in tow, Donatella was recently named 
one of the Louisville Slugger National Players of 
the Week at all levels of collegiate play.
 Saturday’s doubleheader brought the Tritons 
a 10–7 win in game one and a 4–3 victory in the 
seven-inning nightcap. Sophomore outfielder 
Jack Larsen stretched his conference lead in 
RBIs to 27 on the day, adding five. Larsen also 
produced two doubles in game one and a triple 
in the nightcap. 
Senior southpaw Chad Rieser (0–0) was 
credited with both saves on the day, bringing 
his season total to three. Rieser followed fellow 
senior southpaw Trevor Scott (4–2) in game one 
and transfer junior right-hander Alon Leichman (4–0) in the second game to end their winning 
decisions. Rieser dug himself out of a tough situ -
ation in game one with the tying run at the plate 
in the ninth inning for the first save.
 “In those kinds of situations we always talk 
about slowing the game down. ” Rieser said. 
“Taking it pitch-by-pitch, focusing on the game 
and slowing down my breathing. ”
 Sunday’s 4–2 win completed the sweep 
with junior right-handed pitcher Troy Cruz 
(3–2) taking the mound to bounce back from 
his previous two losses. Redshirt freshman left 
fielder Justin Flatt and freshman third baseman 
Tyler Plantier, had productive days at the plate 
with the former extending his hit streak to nine 
games and the latter producing three RBIs.
 “We’ve been trying to talk all week about the 
mental toughness it takes to play against a team 
like this, ” UCSD head coach Eric Newman said. 
“Every game was a good game — every game 
was tight at the end and you really saw guys em -
brace the opportunity throughout the weekend 
to make a play. ”
 UCSD will break from play for finals week, 
but pick up again at home with a split-series 
against Cal State San Bernardino scheduled to 
start at 6 p.m. on Saturday, March 21. While the 
first pair of games will take place at home, the 
series will move to San Bernardino for the final 
two games, both on Sunday, March 22. The Tri -
tons are expected to extend their winning streak 
against a struggling San Bernardino squad who 
sits in ninth place in the CCAA. Playing in one of this year’s busiest weeks, 
the No. 17 UCSD men’s tennis team competed 
in a slew of matches for the 126th Annual Pacific 
Coast Doubles. Lasting from last Thursday 
through this Tuesday, the team took a pair of 
wins against Villanova University and George -
town, followed by a pair of losses to UC Irvine 
and the University of West Florida. The Tritons 
now hold an 8–6 record on the season. 
 The Pacific Coast Doubles ran from Thursday 
through Sunday at the La Jolla Beach & Tennis 
Club, and it was seniors Axel Bouillin and Rajeev 
Herekar (9–2 as a duo) who made it the furthest 
for the Tritons, reaching the quarterfinals before 
defeat. 
Their tournament began with an 8–4 win over 
Georgetown pair senior Alex Tropiano and fresh -
man Marco Lam. They then became the only Tri -
ton pair to progress past the round of 64 thanks 
to a 8–4 victory over second-seeded Oklahoma 
State’s sophomore Arjun Kadhe and senior Jakob 
Sude. Wins over San Diego State and Claremont-
Mudd-Scripps pushed them past through the 
round of 16 and into the quarterfinals. 
However, in their quarterfinal match up 
against UC Davis, the pair took the first set 6–2, 
but dropped the second and lost the final set in a 
hard-fought tiebreaker.
The rest of the UCSD men’s tennis team began 
the week well elsewhere as it nearly completed 
a shutout of Division-I opponent Villanova at 
Northview Courts. The Tritons won all their 
doubles matches and triumphed in five of the six 
singles matches to take home an 8–1 victory. 
Junior Horea Porutui grabbed the first vic -
tory in the singles with a comfortable 6–1, 6–1 
win over Wildcat sophomore Bradley Noyes in 
the number two spot. Bouillin took a 6–1, 6–3 
victory over senior Mark Miller in the number 
one singles spot and paired up with Herekar to 
take a 8–5 victory in the number one doubles 
spot. A number-six singles spot victory for Triton 
sophomore Alexandre Mialue over Wildcat senior Michael Rosengren (6–3, 6–1) rounded off 
an impressive day for the Tritons.
The Tritons, without Bouillin and Herekar, 
also started Sunday off well with a 4–3 home win 
over another Division-I foe: Georgetown. The 
Tritons managed to take three out of six singles 
matches, including wins from freshman Eric 
Tseng and Porutui in the number one and num -
ber two slots, respectively. UCSD also managed 
to take two of the three doubles matches to best 
Georgetown. 
“We’ve been preparing all week for this, ” 
UCSD head coach Timmer Willing said, follow -
ing the back-to-back Division-I victories. “ Any -
thing can happen because they’re a short version 
and when we won [the doubles] they really gave 
us a little lift. ”
The Tritons then suffered a tough 5–2 defeat 
against Division-I opponent UC Irvine at New -
port Beach Club. Despite their recent momen -
tum, the Tritons lost all doubles matches and 
picked up just two singles wins from six matches. 
Porutui (6–4, 7–5) in the number one slot and 
senior Kona Luu (6–4, 7–6) in the sixth slot were 
the only two Tritons who brought points to the 
UCSD scorecard.
On Tuesday, the blue and gold wrapped up 
the week with a tough 9–0 loss against top-
ranked Division-II squad West Florida, who is 
now on an incredible 37-game winning streak. 
Bouillin and Herekar were narrowly de -
feated 9–8 in the No. 1 doubles spot. UCSD also 
dropped No. 2 doubles 8–0 and No. 3 doubles 
8–4. The singles had little more success, though 
No. 3 player Porutiu took a set to his opponent. 
Bouillon and Tseng, in the first and second 
singles’ spot, were dropped in straight sets by 
nationally ranked opponents. 
After a busy week, the Tritons look to build on 
their successes as they host No. 2 Hawaii Pacific 
University on Saturday, March 14, the final home 
game of the season. The Tritons had lost 7–2 
earlier in the season at Hawaii Pacific.
readers can contact
liam  leahy    lleahy@ucsd.edu readers can contact
john  stor y    jstory@ucsd.edu M.  TENNIS BASEBALL
Tritons Defeats Division-I Foes Donatella Extends Shutout Streak
UCSD takes two straight wins, but falls to UC Irvine, West Florida. Triton ace on fire as baseball records huge sweep of Chico State.
B Y liam  leahy
staff writerB y  john  stor y
associate sports editor
PHOTO USED WITH PERMISSION FROM UCSD ATHLETICS Design bySherman Aline MIGHTY
MECKLINGSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
BRANDON  YU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MARCH 12, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
Everyone loves a good underdog story. Whether 
it’s a group of college unknowns forcing a miracle 
on ice or a determined dreamer getting carried 
triumphantly off the Fighting Irish turf, it’s always 
nice to see the little guy find some success. But for 
UCSD’s senior sabreur Peter Meckling, life in the 
summer of 2013 took a much graver turn than the average against-
the-odds scenario. 
Born and raised in Colorado, Peter grew up as a soccer player 
alongside his twin brother, Billy. For a fencer who now competes 
at the collegiate level, Peter entered the world of sword fighting at 
a late age when he and his brother entered an introductory fencing 
summer camp at their mother’s suggestion.
“We didn’t really start fencing until the end of the sophomore 
year of high school, ” Peter said. “We just tried it. We ended up be -
ing pretty good at it, so we kept going and competed locally and a 
little bit nationally. ” 
Within a year after starting out, Peter’s natural talent for the 
sabre suddenly factored heavily into his college selection process.
“We looked at fencing schools that were also good engineering 
schools, which is why I ended up here [at UCSD], ” Peter said. “I 
talked to Coach Josh [Runyan]. He knew we were applying, so I 
wasn’t just a walk-on. ” 
After touching down in La Jolla, Peter forged some of his 
strongest relationships with teammates and coaches in his first 
two years while also making a mark in competition. He recorded 
a handful of impressive podium finishes and even handed his 
brother, of University of Notre Dame, his only loss at the NCAA 
West Invitational in his freshman year. Halfway through his time at 
UCSD, things seemed to be going well for Peter. 
On Friday, June 14, 2013, school was out, and summer had be -
gun. Peter’s parents, whom he hadn’t seen in six months, planned 
to stay in San Diego for the break, and he was happy to see his 
brother and sister. However, before fun was to be had, Peter had to 
get an ultrasound that afternoon for a protrusion in his testicle that 
he had noticed for some time.
“I had never had an ultrasound, but it seemed to be taking a 
really long time, ” Peter said. “When we went out to the car, and 
we were just leaving the parking lot out of Thornton Hospital, the 
doctor called and said, ‘Y es, Peter has cancer. ’”
Y et after hearing the official diagnosis of testicular cancer, Peter 
kept calm and put on a brave face for his family.
“We talked about it a little but mostly we avoided it, ” Peter said. 
“I didn’t want my mom to be scared, so I was trying to be strong. I 
didn’t want my brother and sister to freak out, especially my sister. 
I was worried, and I’m sure my parents were worried, but it was 
switched into the back of my mind. ” 
Amid the shock, there truly was little time to dwell. The follow -
ing Tuesday, when Peter went to visit the oncologist for a check-up, 
a convenient opening for surgery was available on the same day, 
and, soon enough, Peter was in and out of a successful procedure. 
Furthermore, a CT scan following the surgery indicated that there was a 75-percent chance that the cancer would not return. As 
junior year rolled around, Peter re-focused on an engineer’s daunt -
ing course load, and he returned as squad captain to the sport he 
loved, where he and his teammates openly joked about his partially 
removed manhood. After a tumultuous summer, things appeared 
to return to normalcy.
“By the time winter quarter came around, I wasn’t worried 
anymore, ” Peter said. “I had done three CT scans by then, and 
none had shown lymph nodes growing, so I thought it was a thing 
of the past. ” 
However, just as the cancer seemed to be behind him, 
disaster struck again in the middle of winter quarter. During 
Peter’s fourth CT scan, his doctor discovered that the cancer 
had returned, and a lymph node had to be removed. Surgery 
was scheduled for spring 
break in three weeks, but 
NCAA Regionals were com -
ing up that same week. 
Peter panicked initially, but 
with the possibility of qualify -
ing for NCAAs, he attempted 
to turn his attention toward 
fencing. 
“I fenced at Regionals, and 
I was doing well, ” Peter said. “I 
beat a lot of good people, and 
then I just fell apart. I just men -
tally lost it all. I lost matches I 
shouldn’t have lost, so I didn’t 
[get a chance to] make it to nationals. ” 
Despite the disappointment at Regionals, Peter underwent 
another thankfully successful surgery over break, after which his 
coaches and teammates came to visit him. 
“It’s hard to be there [in the hospital], ” Peter said. “It was really good when my teammates, even my coaches, came to visit me. It 
was really good to see them to help me get through that. ”
With a 99-percent chance that the cancer had officially gone, 
Peter then looked toward a formidable road to recovery. In the 
spring, he lived with his mother off campus, slowly battling the 
lingering pain from the surgery, which put Peter’s senior year as a 
fencer in doubt.
“I wasn’t allowed to lift anything for like a month, ” Peter told 
the UCSD Guardian. “I carried a notebook around with me to 
class, and that was all that I could carry. ” 
Y et slowly but surely, Peter progressed. He caught up on school 
that summer and spent time regaining his strength. In mid-No -
vember 2014, he finally re-entered competition at the UCSD-host -
ed event BladeRunner. The two-day schedule of matches was the 
first action he had seen since his struggles at Regionals in March.
“It felt pretty great, ” Peter said. “I spent a lot of time recovering, 
a lot of time not being able to fence at the level I wanted to fence 
at. BladeRunner showed that I was getting back there — that for as 
long as I’ d been out, I could still fence. It was a really good feeling. ” 
Since then, Peter has competed fully this season and recently 
wrapped up his collegiate career with a sixth place finish at 2015’s 
NCAA Regionals behind some of the best fencers in the nation. 
Additionally, Triton freshman David Hadler took third in the foil 
and will represent UCSD at the national championships in Ohio 
next week from March 19 to 22, during which Peter will surely be 
cheering on his teammate.
As for himself, Peter will look back on his journey these four 
years as a great experience with the sport he loves, one that has 
helped him through the life-threatening hardships he has faced.
“Fencing has probably been the greatest part of my college 
experience so far, ” Peter said. “ All my friends are fencers. All of my 
greatest memories have been with fencers at tournaments. It would 
have been really tough without them. These guys and girls have all 
been there for me. ” Amid the trials of cancer, senior Peter Meckling emerged this year in triumph.
Written by Brandon Yu // Sports Editor
“I didn’t want my mom 
to be scared, so I was 
trying to be strong. I 
didn’t want my brother 
and sister to freak out, 
especially my sister. I 
was worried, and I’m 
sure my parents were 
worried, but it was 
switched into the back 
of my mind. ”Swim/Dive
W. Water Polo
M. Crew
Track & Field
Baseball    3/12
    3/12
    3/13
    3/13
    3/13AT NCAA Championships 
VS Cal State Northridge
VS Gonzaga University
VS San Diego Challenge
VS Cal State San BernardinoUPCOMING
UCSD
GAMES
PHOTOS USED WITH PERMISSION FROM UCSD ATHLETICS