VOLUME 48, ISSUE 45  MONDAY, APRIL 13, 2015 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Looking for
OFF-CAMPUShousing?Look no further...
 Scan below
for moreinfoHow far from campusdo you want to live?
Campusly
 Join today at campusly.org 
5 min 15 min 40 min
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
A.S. Council Announces 
2015–16 Election Results
The A.S. Council General Elections came to a close 
at 4 p.m. on Friday, April 10. Dominick Suvonnasupa 
of Tritons United won the presidential race against 
Students Determined candidate Travis Miller. Taylor N. 
Valdivia of Students Determined won the race for vice 
president of campus affairs against Bryan Dierking of 
Tritons United. Also of Students Determined, Krystl 
Fabella became the vice president of external affairs after 
running uncontested. 
After the polls closed, the elections committee heard 
three grievances from candidates, all of which were dis -
missed. Following the elections committee hearing, can -
didates gathered at Round Table Pizza in Price Center to 
await the election results. A.S. Elections Manager Ryan 
Huyler arrived and he and the other committee mem -
bers announced the winning candidates. 
Following the announcement of the results, 
Suvonnasupa told the UCSD Guardian that his win was 
bittersweet.
“It’s difficult because I know Travis is very qualified, 
as well, ” Suvonnasupa said. “I respect him so much and wish the best for him. ”
Miller told the Guardian that he was a little disap -
pointed but very excited. His slate also won seven out of 
the eight campuswide senator positions, two out of five 
academic senator positions. 
“It was never just about me — it was about the jour -
ney; it was about everyone, ” Miller said. “Coming into 
this, I honestly didn’t think we were going to take many 
seats and we took almost every seat. ”
The newly elected Vice President of Campus Affairs 
Taylor Valdivia expressed shock and excitement for this 
upcoming year.
“I couldn’t be more proud of Students Determined, ” 
Valdivia said. “I cannot wait to see what our future has 
in store. ”
Lauren Roberts, one of the seven incoming cam -
puswide senators from the Students Determined slate, 
praised her fellow Students Determined candidates and 
commented on her slate’s motivations.
“Students Determined was built out of the idea that 
short-term goals could make a big-picture difference   B y  Maria sebas    STAFF WRITER 
See  ELECTIONS , page 3State Senate 
Committee
Approves 
Tuition BillCALIFORNIA
State Senator Marty Block and 
Senate President Kevin de Leon’s 
collaborative bill proposes 
rewarding timely graduation.
B Y  jacky to
Senior staff Writer
See SB-15 , page 3California’s Senate Education 
Committee unanimously approved 
Senate Bill 15 last Wednesday, 
which addresses needs at all three 
of California’s higher education 
systems. 
The provisions of SB 15 include 
adding 7,500 additional Cal Grant 
Competitive Awards for older and 
non-traditional students. SB 15 
also establishes the Graduation 
Incentive Grant, which rewards 
Cal State University students for 
completing 30 semester units per 
year. Furthermore, the bill repeals 
the 11-percent Cal Grant Award 
reduction that students attending 
private, non-profit universities 
previously faced. 
Senate President pro Tempore 
Kevin de Leon, who co-authored the 
bill with Sen. Marty Block (D-San 
Diego), thinks that SB 15 addresses 
an increasingly pressing need for 
more educated workers.
“ A college degree has become an 
impossible dream for too many and 
that is threatening our economy, ” 
de Leon said in an April 8 press 
release. “In 10 years, California will 
need over one million more college 
graduates than its producing to 
sustain economic demands. ”
Though many news outlets 
have reported that SB 15 would 
provide funding to prevent the 
UC system tuition hikes, Block’s 
communications director Maria 
Lopez clarified to the UCSD 
Guardian that it actually only states FOOD SECURITY
THE LONG-AWAITED TRITON 
FOOD PANTRY OPENED TO 
SERVE STUDENTS IN NEED.
HOMELESS  IN  P ARADISE
TRITONS LOSE TWICE WHA T  SAN  DIEGO  CAN  DO
DISAPPOINTING  END  OF  SEASONOPINION,  P age   4
SPORTS,  P age  12
MONDAY
H 72 L 55TUESDAY
H 70 L 54
WEDNESDAY
H 77 L 55THURSDAY
H 77 L 55
FORECAST
VERBATIM
I HOPE TO 
DELVE INTO THE 
FACTORS THAT 
CONTRIBUTE 
TO GENDER 
NORMS AND 
HOW THOSE 
CONSTRUCTS 
ARE BEING 
CHALLENGED AND DIVERSIFIED 
TODAY ... BY UTILIZING THE VAST 
RESOURCES AT MY DISPOSAL, I 
INTEND TO MAKE THIS COLUMN 
THE BEST THAT IT CAN BE.”
- VINCENT PHAM
BOY, INTERRUPTED
OPINION, PAGE 4“
FEA TURES,   P AGE  6
PHOTO BY TAYLOR SANDERSON / GUARDIAN
Tritons United wins A.S. Council presidency and Students Determined takes senate majority as well as vice-presidential positions. 
Both parties celebrated their respective victories last Friday evening. Photo by Matthias Scheer / UCSD Guardian.2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 13, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG N EWS
DIGITAL MONKEYS By Jeff Lau
#OMG 
#LIKE US
#FOLLOW US
@ucsdguar dianErnest Rady pledged to donate 
$100 million to UCSD’s School of 
Management possibly over the next 
several years on April 7.
The donation is expected 
to render an improved college 
education system at UCSD with a 
wider variety of programs and more 
faculty members in the Rady School 
of Management. 
According to Robert S. Sullivan, 
the dean of the Rady School of 
Management, this monetary gift 
will be mainly used to grow the 
faculty through recruitment.
“[The fund] will allow us to 
provide endowed faculty chairs for 
the best and the brightest faculty 
because our campus as whole needs 
to be much more competitive in the market, ” Sullivan told the 
UCSD Guardian. “Right now, we 
are limited with some of the special 
programs because we don’t have 
enough faculty to deliver them. ”
Relatively small in size with 
only 27 full-time faculty members, 
the Rady School will also focus 
on expanding minor programs for 
undergraduate students.
“Minors are very important 
to the campus because we have 
approximately 1,400 students 
that have minors in our school, ” 
Sullivan said. “So, even though 
we were created to be a graduate 
program, we are important to 
the undergraduates, and we will 
continue to grow these programs. ”
According to Sullivan, the Rady 
School is concentrating on finding 
new programs that are currently in 
high demand and in high need. Some 
of these programs include business analytics, data science, social 
innovation and entrepreneurship, 
as well as quantitative finance and 
investing.
Moreover, the Rady School 
intends to use the funding as a 
source of reinforcement to improve 
student fellowship.
 “[For the] individuals that are 
really the best and the brightest 
of the students, no matter where 
they come from, it shouldn’t be the 
tuition that would keep them out of 
[the university], ” Sullivan said. “We 
need to provide fellowships so that 
the bests and the brightest come. ”
Prior to this recent $100-million 
gift, Rady contributed $38 million 
in the past to the Rady School, 
which was mostly budgeted for the 
facility construction. In return, 
UCSD named the facility after Rady 
to honor his philanthropic deed.
 Apart from his contributions to UCSD, Rady has also donated $180 
million to Rady Children’s Hospital 
to help doctors treat disorders by 
analyzing genetic makeups.
 The new donation to the Rady 
School is an endowment fund, 
which means that the money will 
be paid partially throughout the 
next several years, possibly decades.
 Rady is the executive chairman 
of American Assets Trust, Inc. and 
a self-made billionaire businessman 
experienced in the field of financial 
services, investment management 
and real estate.
 Rady graduated from the 
University of Manitoba with degrees 
in law and commerce.CAMPUS
Ernest Rady Donates $100 Million to School of  Management
The endowment fund will facilitate recruitment efforts for faculty chairs and student fellowships over several years.
B Y  bruce b.y. lee
contributing WRITER
IN BRIEFCOMPILED BY 
TINA BUTOIU //  NEWS EDITOR
A UCSD student found responsible for sexual assault and sanctioned 
with a suspension of over one year filed a lawsuit against the University 
last Thursday. 
“John Doe, ” as the petition filed by attorney Matthew Haberkorn 
refers to the student, allegedly assaulted a female student, “Jane Roe, ” in 
February 2014. Doe denied the allegations at a Student Conduct Review 
Panel hearing last October though the panel found him responsible for 
sexual misconduct and recommended a one-quarter suspension. However, a panel of provosts increased the suspension to one year and a quarter 
after Revelle Dean of Student Affairs Sherry Mallory raised the suspension 
to one year.
Roe reported the incident to the Office for the Prevention of 
Discrimination and Harassment  and requested a formal investigation last 
June. 
Since Haberkorn filed the petition, Doe received a temporary stay to 
the suspension and is able to attend classes.UCSD Student Files Lawsuit Against University Sexual Assault Sanctions that Suspended Him For Over One Academic YearThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and 
Thursdays during the academic year by UCSD students 
and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this 
newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, 
without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2015, all 
rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible 
for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The 
views expressed herein do not necessarily represent 
the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of 
California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian 
is funded by advertising. Daniel Watts for Govermor 2016.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.orgBusiness Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Aleksandra Konstantinovic
Andrew E. Huang  
Taylor Sanderson
Tina Butoiu
Kriti Sarin
Charu Mehra
Cassia Pollock
Marcus Thuillier
John Story
Teiko Yakobson
Jacqueline Kim
Kyle Somers
Nilu Karimi
Siddharth Atre
Jonathan Gao
Joselynn Ordaz
Sherman Aline
Elyse Yang
Annie Liu
Rosina Garcia
Jennifer Grundman
Laura Chow
Vincent PhamEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
  
Associate News Editor
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Social Media Coordinator
Training and Development
Page Layout
Taylor Sanderson
Distribution
Christopher Graves, Josef Goodyear
Copy Readers
Andrew Chao, Caroline Lee, Sage Christian, Marissa Barber, 
Heejung Lim
Editorial Assistants
Shelby Newallis, Karly Nisson, Mario Attie
Bruce b.y. lee  BYl019@ucsd.edu readers can contactN EWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 13, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
LIGHTS & SIRENSLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edu.
Thursday, April 2
10:43 a.m.: Fire
A small brush fire ignited in 
the Village Building 6 and was 
extinguished by custodians. Checks 
OK.
11:26 a.m.: Person Down
A transient was illegally lodging 
and smoking near Voigt Drive Dip.  
Field interview administered.
Friday, April 3
11 p.m.: Fraud
Unauthorized charges on the 
victim’s credit card were reported, 
with a loss totaling $4,514. Report 
taken.
12:51 a.m.: Citizen Contact
A subject was playing soccer inside 
a Village East washroom. Unable to 
locate.
12 p.m.: Collision
A UC vehicle backed up into a 
bollard by the Campus Services 
Complex. Report taken.
Saturday, April 4
7 a.m.: Vandalism
A vehicle’s driver-side window had 
been smashed, causing $250 worth 
in damages . Checks OK.
1:04 p.m.: Burglary
A Sixth College Apartment resident 
heard two suspects enter through a 
window who then took off running . 
Report taken.
5:02 pm.: Petty Theft
A non-affiliate in Geisel Library 
took the victim’s backpack and stole 
the iPad within, which was later 
recovered . Closed by adult citation.
10:04 p.m.: Suspicious Vehicle
A group of suspicious males 
carrying alcohol was reported near Lot P008. One male juvenile was 
arrested for carrying a concealed 
dagger and another was arrested for 
possession of metal knuckles and 
giving a false ID to police. Closed 
by juvenile arrest.
Sunday, April 5
6:25 p.m.: Gas Leak
A Home Plate staff member 
reported an odor of butane coming 
from the restaurant. Checks OK.
Monday, April 6
10:24 p.m.: Shoplifting
Loss-prevention officers attempted 
to contact a suspected shoplifter in 
the bookstore, but the suspect took 
off, resulting in a loss of $79.45.  
Report taken.
6 p.m.: Non-injury Collision
A UCSD vehicle accidentally 
drove off a driveway ledge, causing 
undercarriage damage.  Report 
taken.
Wednesday, April 8
3:20 p.m.: Disturbance
Report of a patient with suicidal 
thoughts voluntarily requesting 
committal and transportation 
to a hospital for evaluation.  
Transported to hospital.
Thursday, April 9
11:36 p.m.: Reckless Driving
A vehicle was reportedly speeding 
and driving too close to other 
vehicles near the Pangea Parking 
Structure. Gone on arrival. 
— ANDREW HUANG
Managing Editorhere at UCSD, ” Roberts said. “ And 
we’re going to use our three quarters 
to do something impactful. ”
Thadeus John Odom was the 
only candidate representing Tritons 
United to be elected as a cam -
puswide senator. Odom told the 
Guardian that he looks forward to 
progressing the Council and wants 
to give student organizations more 
power.
“I think the student orgs really 
know what the students want more 
than A.S. [Council] does, ” Odom 
said. “They need to have more power and visibility on this cam -
p u s .”
When asked how he felt about 
this election season, Huyler told the 
Guardian it was a success.
“We got almost 24.5-percent 
turnout — that’s more than last 
year, ” Huyler said. “ And the griev -
ance process went well, so, overall, I 
think it went well. ”
Huyler also told the Guardian 
about the technical problem 
involving the University Centers 
Referendum. According to Huyler, 
graduate students weren’t able to 
vote between 10 a.m. Monday and 
4 a.m. Tuesday. To make up for this, only graduate students will be 
allowed to continue voting from 10 
a.m. on Monday, April 13 until 4 
a.m. on Tuesday, April 14.
“ At that point, if there are any 
grievances, we’ll hear them that 
night, ” Huyler said. “Otherwise, 
we’ll certify the results Tuesday. ”
The UCEN Referendum would 
raise students’ quarterly fees by $14 
with yearly adjustments of 2.9 per -
cent to account for inflation. 
the intent to do so.
“SB 15 does not specifically 
eliminate the UC’s proposed tuition 
increase, ” Lopez said. “By stating 
the legislative intent, it means 
the authors intend to secure the 
necessary funding through the 
2015–16 budget bill. ”
Additionally, the bill endeavors 
to increase enrollment at the UC 
campuses by 500 students in 2015–
16 and by even more thereafter.
According the UC Office of the 
President’s media specialist Shelly 
Meron, the university has taken a 
“support in concept” position on 
SB 15. 
UC Associate Vice President 
and Director of State Government 
Relations Steve Juarez wrote in an 
April 7 letter to the senators that 
though the university supports the major concepts of SB 15, the 
University of California thinks the 
bill is not ideal in its current form. 
“While we believe that specific 
provisions require further 
refinement we look forward to 
continuing our conversations on 
the bill and strengthening our 
partnership with the state to provide 
a high quality education for our 
students, ” Juarez said. 
To help finance the $342 million 
plan, the State Senate proposed 
to eliminate the Middle Class 
Scholarship Program, citing the fact 
that students who applied only had 
to meet an income test and not an 
assets test. 
According to the San Jose 
Mercury News, the California 
Student Aid Commission reported 
earlier this year that nearly one out 
of every 10 of the students who 
received Middle Class Scholarship grants owned more than $250,000 
in assets “and more than 1,000 
students had more than $1 million 
in the bank. ”  
Assembly Speaker Toni Atkins 
told Mercury News that she wants 
to keep the program but is open to 
modifying it in order to improve its 
effectiveness.
“The Assembly is absolutely 
committed to letting the Middle 
Class Scholarship keep working, 
since it has already helped more 
than 75,000 California students, 
including middle-income and 
lower-income students that fall 
through the financial aid cracks at 
both CSU and UC, ” Atkins said.UCEN ReferendumVote Postponed Due to Technical Difficulties
SB-15 Could Eliminate the Middle Class Scholarship Program▶ ELECTIONS,  from page 1
▶ SB-15,  from page 1maria sebas  msebas@ucsd.edu readers can contact
JACKY TO  J6TO@ucsd.edu readers can contact
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGsee more at4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 13, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CHARU  MEHRA
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Lessons 
From 
Phillian and 
Chuquita
Vincent  pham 
vnp003@ucsd.eduboy, interrupted
What’s an article of clothing 
that doesn’t rub, is nice 
and cool and covers your 
diaper for when guests come over? 
If you said a dress, you’re wrong. It’s 
a dressie.
Rugrats, a popular 1990s 
Nickelodeon cartoon, depicted 
the crazy adventures of a group of 
toddlers. In an episode called “Clan 
of the Duck, ” which aired in 1997, 
Chuckie Finster challenges gender 
norms when he and Phil DeVille 
try on his twin Lil’s dressies. When 
Tommy Pickles asks why boys can’t 
wear dressies, Lil retorts that “boys 
wear pants. ” Y et, Chuckie and Phil 
challenge this gender norm when 
Phil points out that his mother, 
Betty, also wears pants. Keep in 
mind Chuckie is the oldest at a 
whopping 2 years old.
Chuckie and Phil explore the 
exciting capabilities of a dressie — 
they twirl, they “fly” off a bed and 
Chuckie discovers he can use the 
bathroom without pulling down 
his pants. Unfortunately, the boys 
begin to understand gender-norm 
reinforcement when Howard, Phil’s 
father, rushes them off to the local 
International Food Fair. After 
mistakenly being “hit on” by two boys 
with the lure of gummy worms and 
chocolate, “Phillian” and “Chuquita” 
make a break for it when they’re 
about to get beaten up. Maneuvering 
through the legs of the Jewish 
hora and the site of Japanese sumo 
wrestlers wearing “diapers, ” Chuckie 
and Phil end up finding safety with 
a posse of Scottish babies wearing 
“skirts. ” The leading Scots baby 
step up to the aggressors and yell 
“freedom” while lifting up their kilts. 
The episode is over.
Chuckie and Phil shed light 
onto a societal standard that we still 
encounter today: gender norms. 
In particular, this column will be 
exploring masculine standards and 
how they not only affect boys but 
also pervert the expectations of girls. 
Chuckie and Phil certainly don’t 
find that clothing makes a boy a boy, 
yet our society says otherwise. This 
perception extends into the range 
of activities gender differences are 
pigeonholed into. Men’s activities are 
idealized over women’s. Thus, women 
who enter the workforce have been 
seen as doing something atypical and 
out of their “private” sphere. Men are 
expected to be in the workforce or 
this “public” sphere. In this regard, a 
woman wearing pants in the United 
States is essentially not stigmatized 
compared to a man wearing a 
“dressie. ” All I can say is, you do you, 
Chuckie and Phil.
I hope to delve into the factors that 
contribute to gender norms and how 
those constructs are being challenged 
and diversified today. Unfortunately, 
this complex subject is relatively new 
to me. That said, I apologize for any 
usage of words that may be politically 
incorrect or insensitive. By utilizing 
the vast resources at my disposal, I 
intend to make this column the best 
that it can be.  All the faculty, the 
organizations and the students with 
whom I speak will continue to shape 
my column and, most importantly, 
my understanding of gender. After all, 
if a couple of toddlers can question 
culturally intrinsic values, why can’t 
we all?UCSD must utilize efficient strategies to reduce water usage smoothly 
throughout campus; students’ quality of life is not the main concern in 
this case. Given our very public struggles with drought over the past 
few years in this state, people are expected to at least sort of care by 
now. Until water goes up significantly in price or is rationed, however, it 
seems unlikely that concerted efforts to preserve water will truly seem 
like a necessity to residents in California. It is always difficult to convince 
individuals of the impact their actions can make to the world at large.
Therefore, as Gov. Jerry Brown has realized, it must be the 
responsibility of large organizations with the resources to create a tangible 
reduction in their water usage to act first and act decisively. Among 
these responsible institutions must be universities like UCSD, which 
is the third-largest water consumer in the city of San Diego. If people, 
such as Tritons, will not work hard themselves to reduce their water 
footprint, they will be made to do so. As Brown said, the state is “done 
asking nicely. ”
Luckily, one can see the effect of some water conservation measures 
around campus: Muir Field, for instance, is being converted from grass 
to AstroTurf and will re-open next year. This is indicative of one of 
the most indulgent aspects of Californian water usage — in the face 
of negligible rainfall, the state has imposed no significant bans on the 
watering of lawns. It is surely inevitable that all privately-owned grassy 
areas will be replaced by either artificial turf or drought-resistant plants 
that do not require vast volumes of water to maintain. So, with dozens of 
unnecessary lawns and fields to convert, it should not be too much to ask 
for UCSD to drastically reduce water usage. It must be an example to the 
city and the state.
—  SAMSON THOBURN
Staff WriterUCSD and Student Initiatives Should Plan Ways to 
Save Water, As a T op Priority
QUICK TAKESGOV. JERRY BROWN ISSUES RESTRICTIONS ON WATER USAGE THAT ORDERS STATE OFFICIALS TO IMPLEMENT 
LIMITATIONS ON THIS LIMITED RESOURCE, AFFECTING HOUSEHOLDS AND COLLEGE CAMPUSES STATEWIDE. 
ILLUSTRATION BY ELYSE YANG
Homelessness is a sad reality of the U.S. today that deserves 
significant attention. California alone holds a fifth of the nation’s 
homeless population, according to Mother Jones Magazine, and 
San Diego County itself is ranked in the top five cities in the U.S. for having 
the most homeless people, says the Voice of San Diego. Homelessness is 
not only current, it’s an important, pressing issue that affects our locals, and 
it’s time that we asked what our city is doing for our fellow citizens.
Before discussing homelessness, it is important to debunk the myths 
first. One widely spread idea is that homelessness is a long-term condition. 
According to a researcher at the University of Pennsylvania, the most 
common duration of homelessness is only one or two days. This is because 
the majority of homeless individuals — 85 percent — according to 
Mother Jones Magazine, are only in the situation temporarily. Temporary 
homelessness is defined as individuals who are only homeless for a few 
weeks or months. People in this category can often get off the streets 
with a little help. On the other hand, chronic homelessness is when an 
individual has been on the streets for at least a year or lives off and on the 
streets for many years. The people in this latter category typically also have 
another issue, as well, that keeps them on the streets, such as mental illness, 
physical disabilities or substance abuse. These conditions normally lead to job instability, making it hard for individuals to earn a wage to pay for 
housing. 
Individuals with chronic homelessness should receive the most 
assistance. For many people lacking help, getting off the streets 
permanently is simply not possible. Without support, their lifestyle is also 
costly for the government. The chronically homeless repeatedly spend a 
lot of time in shelters, emergency rooms and jails, costing between $30,000 
and $50,000 per person annually, according to the Interagency Council 
on Homelessness. The La Jolla Light reported that, in 2014, the number 
of chronically homeless in San Diego County was 1,156 individuals. For 
reference, 25 of those were recorded in La Jolla. Instead of financing the 
effects of homelessness, the government should be addressing the causes.
In the past, San Diego has won acclaim for its Serial Inebriate Program, 
which combats homelessness. SIP targets people with substance abuse 
problems who are living on the streets. If they have been checked into 
sobering services more than four times in a 12-month period, they are 
arrested for public intoxication. Those arrested were offered a choice: 
go to jail or join the SIP . After being accepted into the SIP , individuals 
underwent substance abuse treatment for six months. This program is a 
“linear residential treatment model, ” in which housing is dependent on 
See HOMELESSNESS, page 5Living On the Streets
Examining the lingering issue of  chronic homelessness in San Diego and the policies 
being implemented regarding future housing plans.
B Y A y a t  amin   Staff writer
While it’s definitely time for California officials to implement 
practical ideas for water conservation, the restrictions that Gov. 
Brown has set forth are not the best answer, especially in regard 
to UCSD. The university has already taken measures to conserve 
water by using recirculating pumps for fountains on campus and 
by replacing some of the fields with artificial turf, which would 
save approximately nine million gallons of water a year, according 
to UCSD Facilities Management. Actions such as this should be 
sufficient enough in UCSD’s mission to conserve water. 
Interestingly, Brown’s mandate does not apply to farmers, who, 
according to Brown, “have already been hit very hard. ” Brown added 
that he does not want to tell farmers which crops they can and 
cannot grow unless there is an “unprecedented” circumstance. 
But with crops, such as almonds, requiring an insane amount of 
water — one gallon per almond, according to Brown’s state water 
director Mark Cowin — it would make sense to stop the planting of 
crops unnecessary to our diets. In this case, the California drought 
is a critical situation that must be responded to with appropriate 
actions, such as mandating which crops can and cannot be harvested. 
Additionally, San Diego County officials have been looking into 
other ways, such as desalination, to save water that won’t interfere 
with campus life. Saltwater can be purified through Carlsbad’s own 
desalination plant. While it would require a significant amount of 
money and energy, it will be worth it in the long run. Solutions such 
as these should be taken more seriously so that college campuses 
like UCSD are not inconvenienced even more. 
—  ROSINA GARCIA
Copy EditorAlthough UCSD Must Conserve Water in Response 
to Drought, Efforts of  Farmers Are More SignificantOPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
KEL VIN  NORONHA
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
the condition that individuals finish 
the program. In San Diego, the SIP 
resulted in a 54-percent reduction in 
emergency room visits among the 
homeless population. 
It’s great that San Diego has a 
program using a linear residential 
model that works. But in the past, this 
model often failed because relatively 
few chronically homeless people ever 
completed the work required to get 
housing, and any relapse could cause 
them to lose their housing again. 
And the SIP targets only the portion 
of San Diego’s chronically homeless 
with substance abuse issues. What 
about those with mental illness or 
disabilities, two categories that include 
a lot of San Diego’s homeless veterans? 
Well, there is another program 
in San Diego called People Assisting the Homeless. Started two years 
ago, PATH is a program using 
the “housing-first model” geared 
specifically toward getting veterans 
back on their feet, according to ABC 
10 News. “Housing first” embraces 
the idea that an individual is first 
provided housing unconditionally 
then offered all other services and 
programs for support. This model 
is not only successful at getting 
individuals off the streets, but it is 
cost-effective. When “housing first” 
was adopted in Utah, the program 
averaged $11,000 per person, about 
half the $20,000 per person it costs 
for shelters, emergency visits and jails.  
This demonstrates that it is possible to 
both help people and reduce expenses.
Economically, these changes are 
a definite improvement. But they 
are also an improvement in terms of 
the treatment of San Diego’s citizens. The housing-first model embraces 
the idea that housing is a basic 
human right, not a privilege. In the 
linear residential treatment model, 
participants are not treated with the 
respect and compassion that are 
afforded by basic moral standards. It 
is demanded that they improve their 
lifestyles first before they are given 
the privilege of housing. By offering 
individuals housing first, they are 
treated as humans, regardless of their 
condition. In the end, this is what 
the conversation about homelessness 
should focus on: not what is the most 
cost-efficient option or what makes 
our cities look the best but, rather, 
what is the most compassionate, 
simple thing to do for our fellow 
citizens — the homeless. OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 13, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
Shelters for the Homeless Should Be Considered a Basic Human Right
▶ HOMELESSNESS  from page 4
WORLDFRONT WINDOW By David Juarez LETTER  TO  THE  EDITOR
Dear Editor,
I write to you regarding the 
opinion column that was printed in 
[Thursday, April 2, 2015] issue of the 
UCSD Guardian, titled “Students: Be 
Aware of Campus Politics. ” The deci -
sion to publish this column does not 
hosld up to basic ethical standards of 
journalism. Rather than informing the 
public or stimulating good debate, the 
Guardian provided a microphone for 
mudslinging.
The biggest red flag is that the 
author of the article, Jordan Utley-
Thomson, is both a writer for the 
Guardian and a candidate for office 
associated with the Tritons United 
slate. This presents a clear conflict of 
interest. Even though Utley-Thomson 
declared his “biases” at the beginning 
of the article, he should not have been 
allowed to publish as a writer for the 
Guardian. The article belongs as a 
Letter to the Editor, or, at most, clearly 
labeled as “Guest Commentary. ”
Utley-Thomson’s claim that he is 
“covering the news” is especially wor -
risome. If this is news, why is it in the 
opinion section? The article discusses 
Utley-Thomson’s interpretation of a 
Facebook post and comments that no 
longer exist, and he did not directly 
quote any of the people whom he 
criticized, which means that his claims 
about the content of that post and 
those comments cannot be indepen -
dently verified by readers. Perhaps 
Utley-Thomson’s interpretation is cor -
rect, but those of us who did not read the post ourselves will never know. 
The Facebook post is gone, supplanted 
by Utley-Thomson’s version of the 
events, in print and publicized. Utley-
Thomson claims that his political 
rivals “harassed, ” “cyberbullied” and 
“character assassinated” one of his fel -
low slate members and later compares 
them to infamous criminals (“ratfuck -
ers”). By making unsubstantiated 
statements about other peoples’ (his 
political rivals) actions, as a journalist 
writing an op-ed column for a news -
paper, Utley-Thomson commits the 
very “character assassination” of which 
he accuses others.
Jordan Utley-Thomson is free to 
make all the unsubstantiated claims 
he wants. It is you, the opinion editor 
of the UCSD Guardian, who decides 
whether, and in what context, to 
publish those claims. Y ou provided a 
microphone for political mudsling -
ing. Again, at most, Utley-Thomson’s 
article should have been published as 
“Guest Commentary. ”
Y ou could correct this error by 
issuing a retraction explaining that the 
article should not have been published 
as an op-ed piece and/or by giving 
the persons named in the article the 
opportunity to defend themselves in a 
“Guest Commentary” piece.
Thank you for your time.
— Josh Kenchel 
Graduate Student, 
Biological Sciences
readers can contact
a y a t  amin   photay.amin@gmail.comA Note from the Guardian Editorial Board:
As this letter points out, giving the “persons named in the article the 
opportunity to defend themselves in a Guest Commentary” would 
have been a prudent approach to the situation, and we did exactly 
that immediately after the initial complaint was made. However, we 
were not given any content to publish. We’re interested in promot -
ing an open dialogue on campus. Additional letters to the editor 
on this topic or on the many other issues on our campus should be 
addressed to: editor@ucsdguardian.org. 
6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 13, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
TEIKO Y AKOBSON
PUTTING
a  LID ONfeatures@ucsdguardian.org
“Free food”:  The two words that 
seem to prompt a 
positive response 
from students on campus who struggle financially due to tuition, 
textbooks and other living expenses. Money problems have even 
led to some students forgoing a meal to save cash on more immedi -
ate needs. To alleviate this problem, A.S. Council, with the support 
of other organizations, started the Triton Food Pantry on Feb. 5 — 
a service that provides free emergency relief from food troubles to 
both undergraduate and graduate students.
 Since Week 5 of Winter Quarter 2015, the program has of -
fered imperishable foods to students in need so that no student on 
campus will go hungry and that everyone will have the resources 
they need to succeed. Jeremy Snyder, one of the two student 
managers of the Triton Food Pantry and a current A.S. cam -
puswide senator, said that the idea for this service came from 
Muir College Dean of Student Affairs Patricia Mahaffey and 
the help of several college councils.
 “In 2012, the [University of California Undergraduate Experi -
ence Survey] went out across all the campuses, and it found that 
on most campuses, 20 percent of students will skip meals for more 
mandatory financial expenses, ” Snyder said. “When that informa -
tion came to light, Dean Patricia Mahaffey went to all the college 
councils and [A.S. Council] — knowing that it [was] a big problem 
— to create a work group and try to address the issue. ”
 With a starting budget of $50,000, a space in Original Student 
Center was renovated, and various kinds of foods have been 
stocked on the shelves. Partnered with the San Diego Food 
Bank, the Triton Food Pantry is only offering non-perishable 
foods at the moment, but it is hoping to include fresh produce 
and protein in the future.
 To procure more funds to offer more types of food, A.S. Coun -
cil, Housing, Dining and Hospitality and other organizations are 
hosting the Walk the Block Party on April 18. This free event will 
feature a two-mile walk around campus with accompanying music 
and an after party at Revelle College with free food, face painting, a rock-climbing station and many more fun activities. Although 
donations are not required of participants, any contributions that 
are received will benefit the Triton Food Pantry in order to expand 
its choices of food.
 To avoid discouraging anyone from seeking help through 
this program, the Triton Food Pantry volunteers refrain from 
asking too many questions.
 “We want to try [to] have some semblance of anonymity 
[for pantry users], ” Snyder said. “There’s this stigma of having 
to go in for help, so we wanted to remove that stigma by not 
collecting too much personal information so people feel safe 
when they go in the space. ”
After a few weeks of starting up, the Triton Food Pantry saw 
a steady flow of around 100 to 120 students a week. However, in 
order to encourage more students to stop by, a future plan will be to 
open up other locations at various sites on campus.
“I would like, if possible, for us to open a small satellite location 
that’s in a different part of campus because we see a lot of people 
from Revelle and Muir, but [the numbers from] Eleanor Roosevelt, 
Sixth and Earl Warren Colleges are a little lower because they [live 
farther] away, ” Snyder said. “So I’ d like to open a satellite location 
where [volunteers] take some food from the food pantry during 
the day and set up over there during the week so they can distribute 
to those students more easily. ”
 As a student-oriented service, the Triton Food Pantry 
highly recommends undergraduates and graduates to come 
in the store to reap the benefits. Although some students 
may abuse the program, Snyder thinks the help it gives to 
disadvantaged students is well worth it.
 “It’s possible that [students] might take advantage [of the Triton 
Food Pantry], but if we have 100 people come in and 10 people 
abuse it, that’s still 90 people we helped, ” Snyder said. “So I think 
the benefits outweigh the potential harms. ”
CAMPUS HUNGER
DESIGN AND ILLUSTRATION BY SHERMAN ALINE  // ASSOCIATE DESIGN EDITORreaders can contact
Soo Yun P ark   syp008@ucsd.edu WRITTEN BY SOO YUN PARK  // STAFF WRITERFEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 13, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
Playing 
Her Cards 
Right
UCSD Grad Is Making Her Mark
as a Professional Poker Player
Many successful people take 
major gambles to be success -
ful, but few take risks as a 
full-time job. For 2005 UCSD Marshall 
College alumna Maria Ho, that’s exactly 
what she does every day. Ho is a profes -
sional poker player — and a good one, 
too. In her first decade as a professional, 
she has won over $2.6 million and is 
among the highest-ranked female poker 
players in the world.
But Ho was no child prodigy when it 
came to card games. In fact, she didn’t 
even start playing poker seriously until 
she was a UCSD student.
“It wasn’t until my first few years here 
that I started playing regularly, ” Ho told 
the UCSD Guardian. “The most impor -
tant thing for me was taking regular trips 
to the local casinos, particularly Barona, 
and getting experience against live op -
ponents. I was definitely one of the only 
teenage[d] girls there. ”
Since poker was a sport traditionally 
dominated by men — from tough Dallas 
cowboys to MIT math geniuses who grew 
up playing on the Internet — Ho stood 
out as she improved and began to rise to 
prominence. Within two years of gradu -
ating, she was the Last Woman Standing 
at the World Series of Poker Main Event 
(perhaps the most reputable tourna -
ment in the world), finishing 38th out of 
over 6,000 players. She would go on to 
achieve this distinction two more times 
in the next six years, making her the only 
woman to win the award three times.
But as accomplished as she is at the 
poker table, she is perhaps equally as 
competent in front of a microphone. In the past couple of years, she has distin -
guished herself as one of the game’s most 
respected commentators and now serves 
on the full-time broadcast team for the 
Heartland Poker Tour.
And the communications student’s 
broadcasting achievements are not lim -
ited to the poker world. She’s made quite 
a mark on the television world, with 
contributions to a number of programs. 
She’s probably best known for her ap -
pearance as a competitor on Season 15 
of The Amazing Race alongside fellow 
poker star Tiffany Michelle. Ho also 
has appeared as a panelist on Anderson 
Cooper 360 and even had a short stint on 
American Idol back in 2004.
Ho’s passion for performance dates 
back to her time at UCSD, where she was 
a member of the Daughters of Triton, an 
all-female a cappella group on campus. 
She describes her time with the group as 
one of the most important social experi -
ences she had at the university.
Ho advises students interested in 
poker as a career to make sure not to 
forget the reason they came to school in 
the first place. 
“ A lot of the people I work with are 
people who dropped out of college to 
pursue poker, ” Ho said. “It’s important 
to remember to focus on school as a 
backup plan because there’s no guarantee 
you will be successful. I think that, for 
me, learning to balance the demands of 
school and playing was an important part 
of learning how to succeed. ”
With the prime of her career still ahead 
of her, Ho’s best years are still to come.WRITTEN BY SAM SHAPIRO  // STAFF WRITER
readers can contact
Sam Shapiro    sjshapiro@ucsd.edu PHOTOS USED WITH PERMISSION FROM MARIA HO8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 13, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEA TURES
Equal Opportunity Employer. M/F/D/V.SDCCU® is Hiring
But only if you’re awesome!®
• Assistant Branch Manager –  
 Solana Beach and Del Mar
• PT New Accounts Reps –  
 Central and North County
• Receptionist – Central
• Tellers – All Areas 
• Vice President Branch Manager –  
 North Park/Hillcrest
• Business Development Manager
• Compliance Officer• Lending Compliance Officer
• Financial Advisor
• Instructional Designer/Trainer
• Network Administrator
• Real Estate Loan Servicing  
 Representative II
• Vice President, Loan Servicing  
 Manager
• Web Developer
It’ s not big bank banking. It’ s better. ™
(877) 732-2848(877) 732-2848
Federally insured by NCUAPlace to Work!10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 13, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
CLASSIFIEDS$
Guar dian Classi/f_ieds ar e FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifieds
crossword
ACROSS
1 “Now we’re in for it!”
5 Whopper of a meal
10 Tattooist’s surface
14 Fan mag
15 Developing egg
16 Reverse, in word processing
17 Worshiped carving
18 Gave false hope to
19 Track event
20 Christmas service
23 With “A, ” 1986 Ted Danson 
film
26 At ease with
27 Web forum user’s self-image
28 Red giant or white dwarf
29 Price indicators
30 Down Under gem
33 Replies to an invite
37 California’s Santa __ River
38 The Rebels of the 
Southeastern Conference, 
familiarly
40 Before, to 
bards
41 Tongue of Tiberius
43 Totally 
absorbed
44 Soft cheese
45 Entrée list
47 Brought a smile to
49 More’s perfect place
52 Waifish supermodel from 
Britain
54 Easy to use, in adspeak
56 Slanted type: Abbr.
57 Claim as one’s own
58 Carry out
62 Harbor pushers
63 Popular tattoo site
64 Craving
65 Blade with a guarded tip
66 Spanish sovereigns
67 Cornet noteDOWN
1 Six-Day War weapon
2 Stashed away
3 Beatle spouse Yoko
4 Batters’ protection
5 Poppycock
6 Two, four, six, etc.
7 German wheels
8 Trudge, as through mud
9 Opposite of “At ease!”
10 Vacation times
11 Work on sore muscles
12 “That is, ” in 41-Across
13 “Wrong!”
21 “__ bad boy!”: Lou 
Costello catchphrase
22 Peter the Great et al.
23 Like some mistakes
24 The first Mrs. Trump
25 Pester persistently
28 Lose traction
31 Home to many llamas
32 Docs’ org.
34 Left-hand page
35 Is a Nosy Parker
36 Sprouts-to-be
38 “__ the loneliest num -
ber”: ‘60s song lyric
39 Law book contents
42 Sudden urge
44 Saddens, slangily
46 Daytona 500 org.
48 Enero or mayo
49 Come together
50 Figure, as a sum
51 No longer a minor
52 Wild and crazy
53 More than enough
55 Zilch
59 ‘Hood buddy
60 Word before booster or 
tripper
61 “Is it soup __?”BIKES
24” Dyno Spark Mountain Bike Aluminum Dual Suspension Dual 
Disk Brakes - 24” Dyno Spark Mountain Bike. Aluminum frame, dual 
suspension and dual disk brakes. Brand new seat. Terrific condition. 
Ready to ride. Asking $145 obo. Listing ID: 138356010 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
Huffy-Flatbed Bicycle - $95. Well-used. Works. Listing ID: 138356009 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Girls Vintage Nishiki Mixtie, Blue, Rad Bike! - $200. I;m selling this 
for my wife. It’s a fun ride, sturdy frame that’s light weight. Comes 
with a $30 basket. But I can take it off too if you don’t want it. It’s 
good to get ready for summer now. These bikes always get harder 
to find and go up in value as it warms up! Listing ID: 138356008 at 
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
ELECTRONICS
Linksys Wireless Router - $10. Price is firm. Email if interested. Linksys 
by Cisco Wireless G Broadband Router Model WRT54G2, box. Used, 
good condition. Listing ID: 138343983 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
Kessler Slider-Shuttle Pod Mini - $1000. In fantastic condition! This 
slider was bought for a specific work project and hasn’t had much 
use since then, which is why I am selling it. It has been very well 
taken care of, the rails run smoothly and the sale will include the 
custom padded carrying cases that I made for them. Listing ID: 
137003240 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Ricoh Atico Cl 400 Dn Printer - $75. Ricoa Atico Cl 400 Dn printer for 
sale. Printer is in good physical condition. It powers on and black 
toner needs to be replaced but beyond that no more testing was 
performed. Selling “as is. ” Listing ID: 134673481 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
FURNITURE
Mid Century Buffet - $440. Authentic Mid Century Buffet Hutch tall 
Credenza. Vintage. No particle board. Solid wood cabinet. Heavy. 
Made in Denmark. Listing ID: 138343827 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more informationFurniture - $945. Bedroom set with dressers, mirrors, reading lights. The set is made for a queen 
size bed but the bed frame is adjustable for other sizes. Listing ID: 138356053 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
Poker/Bumper Pool/Dining Table and Chairs - $500. A combo Poker Table, Bumper Pool Table, 
Dining Table and four chairs. Now you can have fun and save space at the same time. Comfortable 
seating for dining as well. 54” diameter. Oak. Practically new. Best of all, price includes two pool 
cues, cue stand, balls, chips, ball holders. Listing ID: 134673524 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 13, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
FILM SCREENING: A PLACE AT THE TABLE
PC THEATERTUE, APR 14 • 6pmTahrirCAMPUS
CALENDAR
APR 13 - APR 192015 POWERED BY THE CHANCELLOR’S OFFICE AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guar dian
Calendar
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar @
ucsdgu ardian .orgMON4.13 WED4.15 TUE4.14
7am
THE VERITAS FORUM - PC BALLROOM WEST
The Veritas Forum is an annual event which is 
meant to bring up deeper questions and to encourage students and professors alike in their 
search for truth.
11am
ART AND SOUL: BRAIDED HEADPHONE CORDS 
- THE ZONE
Tired of getting your headphones confused with 
your friends'? Or tired of your friends stealing your headphones?! Personalize them today at Art and Soul! Make sure to bring a headphone cord/charger 
of your choice. String materials will be provided but 
space is limited.
12pm
LEADERSHIP WORKSHOP SERIES - MARIPOSA 
ROOM
Limited spots available! You're invited to attend the 
4-Part Leadership Workshop Series hosted by the 
Outreach Coordinators! Students will get a chance to hone their strengths, learn how to manage a diverse team, and gain skills needed to be a successful leader, all while meeting new friends! 
These skills will be beneficial for students 
throughout college and helpful in finding a career 
after UCSD! 10am
MY STRENGTH IS NOT FOR HURTING - LIBRARY 
WALK
Come out to library walk to meet the men of MASAR 
and join them for a photo campaign and a pledge signing.
4pm
GRAND SLAM - PC AND SSC MULTIPURPOSE RM
The UC San Diego Grad SLAM is a graduate student 
competitive speaking event that showcases graduate 
student research. Grad SLAM participants present 
their research using PowerPoint slides in a 
three-minute TED-like talk□ that can be understood by a general audience. Presenters will compete in successive rounds and receive prizes ranging from $100-$2,500. 
SUN4.19
10am
OUTBACK ADVENTURES SEA KAYAKING- 
OUTBACK ADVENTURES
Looking for some great kayaking in San Diego? La 
Jolla Shores has it! Come out for a paddle around La Jolla Shores and the Cove, which is one of the closest beaches to UCSD as well as one of the most picturesque in San Diego County. We will paddle near the cliffs and coves of La Jolla while keeping an eye out for marine wildlife. If the swell is small we may have the opportunity to paddle inside the sea caves! FRI4.17
9am
CAMPUS CLEAN-UP AND PUBLIC LITTER SORT - 
PC THEATER
All over UC San Diego's campus, the Surfrider student 
organization will be hosting a clean-up. After that, volunteers will take the trash to Library Walk to sort. Recycled materials will be used to create a statue at a 
Surfrider event in May and compost will be taken 
straight to a garden! If you are interested in the environment and keeping UC San Diego litter-free, join Surfrider for this wonderful event.
2:30pm
CAREER CHATS WITH THE CSC - THE ZONE
Drop by and chat with a Career Services Center advisor about professional career objectives and goal setting so that you can be successful!
5pm
OUTBACK ADVENTURES: KAYAK JOUSTING - 
CANYON VIEW AQUATIC CENTER
You and a partner will compete for the crown at San 
Diego’s premier (and only) Kayak Jousting event. One of you will paddle while the other balances upright on a kayak, with pillow padded jousting pole in hand as you attempt to de-kayak your opponent. 7:30am
ECONOMICS ROUNDTABLE WITH JOHN POWERS 
- FACULTY CLUB
John F. Powers, President and CEO, Stanford 
Management Company, presents Volatility, Liquidity, Agency and Returns - The Challenges to Perpetuity in Endowment Investing. Discounts are available for 
UCSD Faculty, Staff, Students, and Alumni.
10am
UCSD SUSTAINABLE JOB FAIR - PC EAST 
BALLROOM
Through this fair, we will connect UCSD students with 
the knowledge and opportunities to meet 
environmental and social challenges. External 
companies and non-profit organizations are invited to 
encourage further involvement in sustainability efforts on and off campus. Come out to network with those 
in action in our greater communit
6pm
FILM SCREENING: A PLACE AT THE TABLE - PC 
THEATER
50 million Americans, 1 in 4 children don't know 
where their next meal is coming from. A Place at the Table tells the powerful stories of three such Americans, who maintain their dignity even as they 
struggle to eat. In a riveting journey that will change 
forever how you think about the hungry, A Place at 
the Table shows how the issue of hunger could be 
solved forever, once the American public decides - as they have in the past - that it is in the best interests of us all. Join Students Against Food Insecurity for this powerful film screening and bring a donation for the 
UCSD Food Pantry.SAT4.18
8am
CESAR CHAVEZ CELEBRATION - 
REGISTRATION  - GROUNDWORK SAN 
DIEGO CHOLLAS CREEK
The site is called the EarthLab Project and is 
being developed by the Groundwork San Diego Chollas Creek non-profit. Groundwork San Diego is committed to providing outdoor nature 
education to San Diego Unified School District 
students, restoring select habitats along the 
Chollas Creek and developing an urban farm 
dedicated to sustainable agriculture.
9am
WALK THE BLOCK PARTY -STARTING AT 
REVELLE PLAZA
Walk the Block Party is a FREE dance party walk 
at UC San Diego benefitting the Triton Food Pantry. All UC San Diego Undergraduate and Graduate 
students, staff and faculty are invited to 
participate in this inaugural event hosted by Swipes for the Homeless, ICRA, Associated Students, and Housing-Dining-Hospitality. Celebrate with the UC San Diego community in a 
2-mile walk and dance to music by different DJ's 
from the Deejay and Vinylphiles Club stationed along the course.THU4.16
11am
COMMUNITY SERVICE STUDENTS ORG FAIR-  
LIBRARY WALK
Student organizations will be tabling on Library Walk 
to highlight the community service they have done and raise awareness of social justice issues they have a passion for. If you want to get involved in 
community service with a student organization or 
find out more about important issues affecting our community and the world, stop by Library Walk.
3pm
PASSPORT TO CULTURE - THAILAND - 
I-HOUSE LOUNGES CUZCO
Learn about life and culture in other countries and 
states from current international and out-of-state students. Enjoy a traditional taste of food from the highlighted region each week! Come earn your 
passport and â□□travel around the worldâ□□! All 
students welcome! Great for students interested in studying abroad! Week 3 will highlight THAILAND! FREE TRADITIONAL FOOD!
5pm
SAAM 3K WALK/RUN - LIBRARY WALK
A fun evening walk/run through campus in recognition of Sexual Assault Awareness Month (SAAM). Register at:http://recreation.ucsd.edu/registration/ 
JOIN  THE
CONVERS ATION
staywith me.ucsd.eduWIN SHARE
a free shirt or t ank.
Winner  chosen daily .  
staywithmeucsdSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 13, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
Secure your S pace for next year now!
room Selection beginS  april 28!
Important! You must follow these steps and meet these deadlines  
to be able to secure your space for the 2015-16 academic year:
AprI l 28: First day to apply online
AprI l 28-30: Sign online contract 
and make $650 prepayment   
(via eCheck or coupon). *  
*NOT covered by Financial Aid until August.  MAY 21: Online Room Selection  
Sign-up Go to hdh.ucsd.edu/roomselection   
for specific dates.hdh.ucsd.edu /roomselection
Check your UC San Diego email 
account for more details.
room Selection a pplication begins a pril 28
Living  
On CampusSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
MARCUS THUILLIER
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 13, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
The UCSD women’s and men’s 
track and field teams dominated at 
the Mangrum Invitational this past 
Saturday at Cal State San Marcos. 
The excitement of the meet came in 
the men and women’s 4-x-400 meter 
relays, as well as the men’s 4-x-
100 meter relay, with the Tritons 
winning their races handily.
The Tritons also performed well 
in the men’s 100-meter. Sophomore 
Emmanuel Elijah finished in second 
place with a personal best of a 
wind-aided 10.81 seconds.
 “I felt I had a pretty solid 
performance today, ” Elijah told 
the UCSD Guardian. “I’m happy 
with the fact that my times keep 
improving as each week goes by. ” 
His teammates, freshmen Paul Doan 
and Justin Hunter, finished in 10.87 
and 10.93 seconds, respectively, 
good for fifth and seventh place. 
On the field, junior Haley Libuit 
took first in the javelin throw 
with a distance of 133 1/3, and 
senior Ellexi Snover took second with 127 1/4. Already author of 
provisional qualifiers for the NCAA 
Championships, Snover told the 
UCSD Athletics Department that 
she hopes to improve her record to 
150 feet. On the men’s side, senior 
Travis Vandegriff came in first with 
a throw of 174 1/3, besting the 
competition by nearly three feet. 
Snover (57.56) and sophomores 
Jackie Chalmers (57.61) and Marisa 
Padilla (58.01), who are part of 
the provisional qualifying 4-x-400 
meter relay team for the NCAA 
Championships, along with senior 
Sabrina Pimentel, came in fourth, 
fifth and sixth, respectively, in the 
400 meter event. Though they did 
not compete in the 4-x-400 meter 
relay at this invitational, they are 
looking to improve their relay time 
and hopefully surpass the school 
record.
Back on the field, senior Chantia 
Justice and junior Kristin Sato, who 
already have provisional qualifiers 
in the triple jump, further solidified 
their qualifying status, finishing 
in first and second, respectively, 
with jumps of 38 1/6 and 37 4.5. 
Representing the Triton men in the triple jump, provisional NCAA 
qualifier sophomore Derek Van de 
Streek finished as the first collegiate 
competitor and second overall with 
a 46 10.75 jump. 
With so many provisional 
qualifiers, the team feels it has 
a good chance of placing well in 
conference. 
“I feel like we as a team have a 
great chance of winning conference 
with the amount of talent that the 
team has, ” Elijah told the Guardian. 
“ As long as each individual does 
their part, it has the potential to 
be a great season. It is definitely 
something to look forward to. ” 
The team will split up this week, 
as the decathletes and heptathletes 
will compete at the California 
Invitational on April 15 and April 
16 in Azusa, California while the 
rest of the team will head to Walnut, 
California to compete at the Mt. 
SAC relays from April 16 to April 
18. TRACK & FIELD
Triton Relays Dominate Competition
UCSD performed in the different events at the Mangrum Invitational with the 
men’s and women’s team accumulating provisional qualifiers marks for the NCAAs.
B y  rosina  garcia
copy editor
PHOTO USED WITH PERMISSION FROM UCSD ATHLETICSreaders can contact
Rosina  garcia    rgarcia@ucsd.edu The UCSD men’s tennis team suffered two tough losses to end its season at the 
hands of No. 11 Azusa Pacific University a week ago and against Point Loma 
Nazarene University at home on April 10. On April 4, the Tritons were defeated 
7–2 by Azusa Pacific in a grueling competition of six singles matches and three 
doubles matches. This past Saturday featured the same composition of matches, and it 
ended with a heart-wrenching final result of 5–4, in favor of Point Loma. 
The No. 16 UCSD Tritons left the Cougar Tennis Complex with their record dropping 
to 12–8 and a regional ranking of No. 3. The No. 11 Azusa Pacific Cougars improved to 
an overall record of 17–3, which places them with a regional ranking of No. 2.
The overmatched UCSD team won only one of the three doubles matches and one 
of the six singles matches against Azusa Pacific. For the doubles matches, the first game 
to finish was the No. 2 doubles in which duo junior Horea Porutiu and sophomore 
Alexandre Miaule lost to the No. 2 Cougars doubles with a final score of 8–4. The Tritons 
came back to tie it up when the No. 3 duo, comprised of freshman Eric Tseng and senior 
Kona Luu, won their match 8–5. The No. 1 doubles match was a tough loss as the sixth 
nationally ranked duo, comprised of seniors Axel Bouillin and Rajeev Herekar, fell in a 
close match with a final score of 9–7.
Down 1–2, the Tritons started the singles with a loss in the No. 5 match, losing two 
of the three sets. Tseng came close in the No. 2 spot, and Bouillin came close in the No. 
1 spot, but they fell as well. Freshman Justin Zhang was able to win the only point for the 
Tritons in the singles matches as he won the No. 4 spot with set scores of 4–6, 6–3 and 
11–9. 
“It wasn’t an easy game; the rest of the guys fought very hard to try to get the win, and 
they competed very hard, but it was a tough crowd and in the end we didn’t get it, ” Bouillin said when asked about the team’s performance in the game. “Now we’re just looking to 
hold down the position that we have in the final game and hopefully close the season off 
well and just prepare for what comes next. ”
Unfortunately, the Tritons weren’t able to finish off the regular season with the win that 
they desired. In their last game of the season, which took place at home at the Northview 
Courts, the Tritons won only one of the three doubles matches and three of the six singles 
matches in the 5–4 defeat. 
Point Loma won the first point of the day, defeating Triton’s Porutiu and senior 
Andrew Malozsak 8–4 in the No. 3 doubles match. The No. 2 doubles duo, Zhang and 
Tseng, were able to answer with a clutch 9–8 victory and win the first point for UCSD. The 
No. 1 doubles match went to Point Loma as Bouillin and Luu fell in a hard-battled match 
which ended on a final score of 8–6.
The singles matches were equally highly-contested events and the sets went back and 
forth for both sides. Malozsak, who was playing his first match of the season, brought 
in the first point at the No. 6 singles match as he handily won his sets 6–4 and 6–2. The 
Tritons then took back-to-back victories in the No. 3 and No. 4 singles matches in which 
Porutiu and Zhang prevailed, respectively. Porutiu won his sets easily with scores of 6–0 
and 6–4 while Zhang won his sets with scores of 7–5 and 6–2. 
Despite their strong efforts, the Tritons weren’t able to close out, and Point Loma’s Sea 
Lions were able to pull ahead with wins in the No. 1, No. 2 and No. 5 spots, leading to their 
single-point victory over the Tritons. 
After the final game of the season, the Tritons ended their regular season with an 
overall record of 12–9 and managed to maintain both rankings of No. 16 nationally and 
No. 3 regionally until the end. 
readers can contact
Gurkira t  singh    gsingh@ucsd.edu 
Tritons Finish Third 
UCSD men’s tennis is defeated in final road game of the season 
by No. 11 Azusa Pacific before falling to Point Loma at home.
BY GURKIRAT SINGH  STAFF WRITER // PHOTO BY  JONATHAN GAO MEN'S  TENNISM. Golf
Track and Field
Track and Field
W. Crew
Softball     4/13
     4/15
     4/16    
     4/17
     4/17AT Hanny Stanislaus Invitational 
AT California Invitational 
AT Mt. SAC Relays
VS San Diego State
AT Cal State East BayUPCOMING
UCSD
GAMES