LEADING
LADIES
The UCSD Guardian chats with  
actresses Carey Mulligan and 
Saiorse Ronan about ﬁnding 
the conﬁdence and courage to 
escape conﬁnement and ﬁght 
for individual identities in their 
latest leading roles.
OVER POPULA TED
SPLIT  RESUL TSPROPOSED    STUDENT   INCREASE
w.  basketball  opens  seasonOPINION,  P age   4
sports,  P age  12
THURSDAY 
H 75 L 54FRIDAY
H 75 L 54
SATURDAY
H 75 L 52SUNDAY
H 75 L 54
FORECAST
VERBATIM
THE U.S. IS STILL NOT SAYING 
‘NO’ TO CHILD MARRIAGE. AS 
OF TODAY , THE U.S. ARGUABLY 
HAS WORSE LAWS REGARDING 
CHILD MARRIAGE THAN A 
COUNTRY WHERE, ACCORDING 
TO REUTERS, ‘HALF OF GIRLS 
WED BEFORE THEIR 18TH 
BIRTHDAY , AND NEARLY ONE IN 
EIGHT IS MARRIED BY 15....’”
- MARCUS THUILLIER AND AYAT AMIN
ACROSS THE GLOBE
OPINION , PAGE 4
INSIDE
ENTREPRENEURSHIP  ......2
STUDENT MARCH  ........... 4
WOLF ALICE CONCERT  ....9
CLASSIFIEDS  ................ 10
M. BASKETBALL  ............ 12“Weekend,  P AGE  6
PHOTO COURTESY OF TRBIMG.COMVOLUME 49, ISSUE 17   THURSDA Y , NOVEMBER 19, 2015  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
The Sun God Festival’s team, 
along with Vice Chancellor of 
Student Affairs Juan Gonzalez, met 
earlier this month to discuss the 
future of the Sun God Festival. Also 
in attendance was the Associated 
Students Concerts and Events 
director Christian Walker, the Chief 
of Police along with other students 
and administrative representatives. 
ASCE posted on their Facebook 
page on Nov. 12 that the attendees 
of the meeting proposed various 
changes to Sun God Festival such as, 
“a temporary ban on the festival which 
included splitting up the festival into 
three smaller concerts at RIMAC and 
a possible permanent cancellation of 
the festival. ” Walker stated that ASCE and 
Gonzalez will continue to discuss  
how planners should  implement new 
changes to the Festival.
“The situation is that the Vice 
Chancellor [Gonzalez] has tasked us 
to bring substantial-enough changes 
to the table for him to be comfortable 
with the festival moving forward, ” 
Walker told the UCSD Guardian. 
“When we brought our ideas to the 
table, those were the ones that were 
pitched in response. We’re now in 
a position of either accepting those 
changes or pushing back and trying 
to see whether we can come up with a 
way to continue the traditions of Sun 
God Festival. ”
There have been almost 500 health 
and safety cases at the festival in 
recent years, including arrests, detox 
admissions and medical transports, which called for immediate structural 
changes to the event. Walker said 
that the team is attempting to alter 
how students see the event but they 
ultimately need more time.
“We’re trying to move away the 
event tradition so that it’s not centered 
around drinking and drugs, but the 
problem is that there’s always going to 
be a body of students that know the 
current and past versions of the event, ” 
Walker said. “[In] the past couple of  
years, seniors and juniors have ended 
up in detox more often, but if we can 
see a 25-percent reduction in health 
and safety incidents, it’s an indicator 
that the older quarter of our student 
population with a problematic view 
of the festival has left. A lot of the 
changes that we’ve set in place — we Black Student Union Protests 
Racism on College Campuses
Members of the Black Lives Matter 
movement formed a single line on 
Library Walk at noon this Wednesday 
to stand in solidarity with black students across 
the country who face racism on their campuses. 
The participants then proceeded to march 
down Library Walk at 1:30 p.m., chanting 
“Black Lives Matter” before stopping at the 
Silent Tree in front of Geisel Library. Here, they 
formed a circle in which students shared their 
experiences with racism.
The Black Student Union’s co-traditions 
coordinator Refilwe Gqajela explained to the 
UCSD Guardian that racism is a systematic 
problem that does affect UCSD students. 
“Things that are happening to the climate 
at other campuses are not isolated incidents, ” 
Gqajela said. “It’s happening institutionally. It’s 
happening here at UCSD. ”
Student leader and Sixth College junior Ashley 
Emuka argued that the discomfort of spectators 
and passersby is indicative of their perspective.“If you feel uncomfortable with people 
standing out here not doing anything, then 
truly your racism and privilege is showing, ” 
Emuka told the Guardian. “It really shows who 
is part of this community and who is not. ”  
Gqajela also explained how participants used 
the action of closing their eyes to symbolically 
communicate their message. 
“You may notice that some of us have our 
eyes closed, ” Gqajela said. “The idea is that the 
only way to have the campus climate that we 
want is to imagine it. ”
Assistant Vice Chancellor of Student Affairs 
Gary Radcliffe told the Guardian that he, 
as well as several members from his office, 
attended the demonstration to ensure that 
the students could demonstrate peacefully 
without intervention. He added that it was 
better to have his office there than the campus 
police, who may have made the students feel 
uncomfortable.
Gqajela disclosed that the Black Student   B Y JACKY TO  AND  JULIE  YIP   ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITOR AND EDITORIAL ASSISTANTACMS 
Renames 
Ted System 
to TritonEdUCSD
Starting Winter 2016, the 
learning management system 
will be completely rebranded 
to reflect the name change.
BY   K e v i n   Sa n t o s
Staff Writer
See  TRITONED , page 3Academic Computing and Media 
Services announced today that Ted, 
the campus learning management 
system used by students and faculty 
for online academic resources, will 
be renamed TritonEd, beginning 
Winter Quarter 2016.
ACMS Assistant Director and 
Office for Online and Technology 
Enhanced Education Managing 
Director Daniel Suchy explained that 
because a significant amount of time 
has been dedicated to modifying the 
LMS, the opportunity presented itself 
to change the name to something that 
resonates better with the university 
and reflects the UCSD brand.
“In the past year, we’ve had a 
really big push on improving the 
user experience for students and 
faculty, ” Suchy told the UCSD 
Guardian. “It just seemed like a 
good time to also rethink the name. 
We’re trying to bring more school 
spirit and make it more connected 
with UCSD. ”
There will be no major changes 
to UCSD’s LMS other than the name. 
However, Suchy says that in the 
future, ACMS plans to use TritonEd 
to improve student performance 
through the use of analytics.
“We’re hoping to better inform 
faculty about how their students 
are using TritonEd,” said Suchy. 
“If we can identify when a student 
suddenly stops using it, that could 
be a sign that the student might need 
additional support. Often, there are 
students who are in trouble and 
need a little help … If we can catch 
them in the middle of the quarter 
when they’re tanking a little bit and 
give them the help they need, that 
could make a difference. For that, 
we need analytics. ”
According to Eleanor Roosevelt 
College junior and ACMS/ResNet 
Help Desk technician Gevorg 
Aghabekov, the name change is 
welcome, because many confuse 
UCSD’s Ted with the globalized 
TED Conferences. 
TED, which stands for 
Technology, Entertainment 
and Design, hosts talks given by 
renowned presenters focusing on 
a variety of topics. There is no 
relationship between TED and 
UCSD’s Ted LMS.
“I think [the name change] will 
be better because a lot of people 
confuse [the UCSD] Ted with TED 
Talks, ” said Aghabekov. “Our Ted 
actually stands for Triton Education. ”
With regard to how students 
will handle the transition from Ted 
to TritonEd, Suchy does not think 
there will be any issues.
“I feel like it’s just a matter of Officials Meet to Brainstorm Sun God Changes
Proposals include temporarily canceling the festival and hosting three smaller concerts.See PROTEST , page 3
See  SGF, page 3CAMPUS
SUN GOD FESTIVAL
BY   m i n g - r a y  l i a o
Staff Writer
Photo by Jacky To /UCSD Guardian2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , NOVEMBER 19, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
AVERAGE CAT By Christina Carlson 
Registration for FALL Q UARTER
A.S. Safe Rides all ows registered 
unde rgraduate stude nts to get
3 FREE rides per quar ter. Stude nts 
MUST register at lea st 24 hou rs 
prior to their ﬁ rst rid e.  A.S. SAFE RID ES
REGISTER ONLINE AT
AS.UCS D.EDU/SAFERIDES
@asucsd IS N OW O PEN!V
D
T
E
H
V
B
S
E
J
B
O

P
S
HYOUR
NEWS
NOW!The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. The Republicans hate Rosina. 
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Interim Marketing Director
Peter McInnis
Training and Development Manager
Cedric Hyon
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Vincent Pham
Rosina Garcia
Tina Butoiu
Kriti Sarin
Jacky To
Cassia Pollock 
Marcus Thuillier
Allison Kubo
Kyle Somers
Karly Nisson
Brittney Lu
Olga Golubkova
Jonathan Gao
Megan Lee
Joselynn Ordaz
Sherman Aline
Elyse Yang
Christina Carlson
Jennifer GrundmanEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
 
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
Associate Features Editor
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Sherman Aline, Quinn Pieper
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim, Alicia Ho, Lisa Chik
Editorial Assistants
Sage Schubert Christian, Katie Potts, Christian Duarte, Sam 
Velazquez, Naftali BurakovskyStudent Teams Compete for Funding in Entrepreneurial Innovation Contest
The Office of Innovation and 
Commercialization, in collaboration 
with The Basement, announced the 
new undergraduate Proof of Concept 
Competition. OIC will award UCSD 
student teams up to $5,000 each in 
entrepreneurial funding for materials 
and creating prototypes. 
Last Monday, Head of the OIC 
Paul Roben released a statement 
in a campus-wide email about 
how the  organizers expect that 
the competition will promote 
entrepreneurial experience.
“The competition challenges 
students to be creative and [to] engage 
in entrepreneurship to enhance their 
readiness for today’s global economy, ” 
Roben said.
He further explained that the PoC 
competition will have a multifacted 
impact on exposing resources at UCSD 
as well as helping students discover 
their entrepreneurial interests.
“[PoC] will serve to raise the profile of The Basement, which is 
a fabulous resource that we hope 
to develop further over the coming 
years,” Roben told the UCSD 
Guardian. “ And this also helps 
to raise awareness across campus 
among the student body that 
innovation and entrepreneurship is 
an opportunity and something you 
can do with your career. We will also 
be using this as a platform to reach 
students to see if they can really 
ignite the spark of entrepreneurship 
across campus and mobilize [other] 
students to become active. ”
The competition is divided into 
two phases. First, current UCSD 
undergraduate students with good 
academic standing form teams of 
two to four with an idea for a startup 
business or product. In addition 
to the online application, teams 
must submit a proposal describing 
the project or product and a plan 
for using the PoC funds by Dec. 
23. Judges will evaluate proposals 
based on the level of innovation, 
commercial potential, competitive 
advantage and use of PoC funds.The judges will qualify a 
maximum of 10 teams as phase-
one winners on Jan. 31 and award 
$2,000 in funds per group. These 
teams will move on to phase 
two, in which they will spend 
February and March completing 
another application and creating a 
presentation. Four winning teams 
will receive another $3,000 each 
and will have the opportunity to 
present their developments at The 
Basement’s Demo Day on April 
28. The financial awards will be 
provided by OIC, which is funding 
the competition. 
UCSD alumni launched The 
Basement in February of 2015 
with a “student-centric mission to 
stimulate, encourage and serve the 
entrepreneurial spirit of UC San Diego 
students, ” according its website. The 
Basement includes over 3,000 square 
feet of co-working space, has held over 
60 events and raised over $80,000 in 
competitions and from Kickstarter, 
the world’s largest funding platform 
for creative projects.
Roben told the Guardian that the awarded funds will be monitored, 
and all teams are expected to report 
their advancements even after the 
competition is over.
“The funds need to be applied 
to the development of [the team’s] 
ideas, ” he said. “We will be asking 
for receipts from expenditures. 
[The teams] will be expected to 
come back to us at the end of the 
academic year, and tell us about 
their progress. ”
However, Roben added that 
while not every group will receive 
a monetary award, all teams are 
encouraged to continue the 
development of their projects. 
“This is not just going to help the 
students who win funding, ” Roben 
told the Guardian. “We will stay in 
contact with all of the applicants. ”
According to Roben, if the PoC 
Competition succeeds, OIC and The 
Basement will consider making the 
event annual.SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
Called the Proof of Concept Competition, the program will provide $5,000 to a maximum of 10 winning teams.
BY   l i sa  c h i k
Staff Writer 
lisa  chik  lchik@ucsd.edu readers can contact
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Follow us on Twitter 
@UCSDGUARDIANsee more atUnion hosted a town hall meeting 
on Monday with other leaders of 
San Diego’s black community to 
organize today’s action.
Another issue that participants 
mentioned was how a satirical 
newspaper on campus, The Koala, 
published articles that some 
consider racist. 
Earlier today, UCSD 
administrators issued a joint statement condemning The Koala, 
an on-campus satirical newspaper 
that many have accused of publishing 
racist articles, and making clear that 
it is not funded by the university. 
“We, the UC San Diego 
administration, strongly denounce 
The Koala publication and the 
offensive and hurtful language it 
chooses to publish, ” the statement 
said. “The Koala is profoundly 
repugnant, repulsive, attacking 
and cruel. The UC San Diego administration does not provide any 
financial support for The Koala, and 
we call on all students, faculty, staff 
and community members to join us 
in condemning this publication and 
other hurtful acts. ”
The statement was signed by 
Chancellor Pradeep Khosla, Executive 
Vice Chancellor Suresh Subramani 
and all of UCSD’s vice chancellors.
haven’t really had enough time to 
see how they could affect the festival 
and it’s what we’re trying to draw 
administrators’ attention to. ”
ASCE also hosted Hullabaloo 
last Friday and saw a positive trend 
in the number of health and safety 
concerns; Walker indicated that 
results like these may help preserve 
the Sun God Festival tradition.
“Health and safety was something 
we really wanted to prioritize and 
address in planning Hullabaloo 
this year to show that our students 
can handle an event of this scale, ” Walker said. “If we can work with 
students, educate them about their 
responsibility at these events and see 
real tangible success; that’s something 
we can show administrators and 
it definitely helps our efforts in 
convincing them that there’s an 
upwards positive trend. We ended 
up having one medical transport 
at this huge event, which is a huge 
improvement on six from last year, 
and it shows that we’re able to act in 
a way that improves our community. ”
Thurgood Marshall College junior 
Aryo Jarhomi argued that UCSD 
needs a campus-wide event like this 
to rival those of other campuses.“Other schools have huge 
concerts, such as the Block Party 
at UC Riverside and [University of 
Southern California] and Outside 
Lands at UC Berkeley, ” Jahromi told 
the Guardian. “We need something 
like Sun God Festival to bring out our 
school spirit and unify the colleges, as 
it is something that everyone knows 
about and looks forward to. ”
There will be another meeting this 
Friday and students can send their 
ideas and suggestions to the ASCE 
Festivals team via email.letting students know … I don’t have 
any worries, ” Suchy said. “I think the 
students are going to be fine. We’re 
letting the faculty know so they’re 
aware of what’s going on as well. ”
Aghabekov believes that, should 
any problems arise for students 
when TritonEd goes live, the ACMS 
Help Desk will be the first to know.
“We’ll see how students respond to the change when it happens, ” 
Aghabekov told the Guardian. “If 
anything, we’ll be the first to hear 
about the responses. ”
Suchy added that the change 
from Ted to TritonEd was not 
ACMS’s first attempt at modifying 
the LMS name. Prior to Ted, the 
LMS went by the name WebCT. 
“Before it was Ted, it was called 
WebCT, ” Suchy explained. “It was 
the name of the company but it is now defunct. We changed our 
name to Ted, which stood for Triton 
Education, because at the same time, 
we changed our LMS. ”
For students in the habit of 
using the original Ted website, the 
web address www.ted.ucsd.edu will 
automatically redirect to the new 
address at www.tritoned.ucsd.edu.NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , NOVEMBER 19, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
Administration Denounces Satirical Newspaper for Offensive Content
UCSD Learning Management System Originally Named WebCT
Number of  Medical Transports at Hullabaloo Decreased from 6 to 1▶ PROTEST,  from page 1
▶ TRITONED,  from page 1
▶ SGF , from page 1JACKY  TO   j6to@ucsd.edureaders can contact
Kevin  Santos   kksantos@ucsd.edureaders can contactLooking for the 
New Business 
Column?
Now posted every Wednesday 
night, after the A.S. Council 
meeting, online.
ucsdguardian.org
ming-ra y liao   m4liao@ucsd.edureaders can contact4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , NOVEMBER 19, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CASSIA  POLLOCK
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
The United States is absolutely 
terrible when it comes to 
establishing laws on child 
marriage. In a country that comes 
down hard on statutory rape and 
labels many people as sex offenders, 
the lax approach on child marriage 
is unsettling. 
The Atlantic reports that in 
places like Russia, China and 
Ethiopia, it is illegal to marry before 
the age of 18. As early as 2004, the 
Chicago Tribune reported about a 
study that found that “teen marriage 
in the U.S. increased by nearly 50 
percent in the 1990s thanks to ‘the 
spread of abstinence-only-until-
marriage sex education at American 
schools, a shift toward cultural 
conservatism among some teens and 
a growing fear among youngsters 
of contracting AIDS through 
promiscuity. ’” The U.S. is a black 
sheep of underaged-marriage law in 
the International community. The 
United Nations Population Fund 
reminds everyone on its front page 
that child marriage is a “human 
rights violation. ”
Between 1995 and 2012, at least 
3,449 children were married in New 
Jersey, according to The New Y ork 
Times. However, child marriage has 
two sides: There is a more widely 
accepted practice in the U.S., in 
which a teenager can get married 
between the ages of 16 and 18 with 
a legal guardian’s consent. This 
would account for most of the 3,499 
aforementioned child marriages in 
New Jersey. But there is a darker side 
to child marriage as well. When a 
child is between the ages of 10 and 
15, they can still be legally married 
by a judge in certain states, including 
New Jersey. This amounts to 178 of 
the child marriages in New Jersey 
that were mentioned above. And 
remember, this is over just a seven-
year period. 
Sadly, the number of these 
marriages is staggering. The NYT 
reported that “91 percent of the 
children were married to adults, 
often at ages or with age differences 
that could have triggered statutory-
rape charges, not a marriage license. 
A judge in 2006 approved the 
marriage of a 10-year-old boy to an 
18-year-old woman. A judge in 1996 
allowed a 12-year-old girl to marry 
a 25-year-old man. ” The statutory 
rape menace is especially important 
in these cases. The Chicago Tribune 
story, mentioned earlier, reported 
that a 14-year-old girl married her 
18-year-old boyfriend in order to 
keep him out of jail.
Let’s go to the other side of the 
world. In Malawi, a country in 
southeastern Africa, the government 
has installed a ban on marriage with 
anyone who is younger than 18, as 
of February 2015. Reuters reported 
that Malawi, “a country where half 
of girls end up as child brides, ” 
pushed hard for this legislation. 
Parliamentarian Jessie Kabwila said: 
“The country will for the first time 
clearly articulate that we are saying 
‘no’ to child marriage. ”
The U.S. is still not saying “no” to 
child marriage. As of today, the U.S. 
arguably has worse laws regarding 
child marriage than a country where, 
according to Reuters, “half of girls 
wed before their 18th birthday, and 
nearly one in eight is married by 15. ” 
We rest our case.The Million Student March at 
UCSD was more like the Mini Student 
March. The event, which took place 
Nov. 12, was a dismal attempt to 
resuscitate our apparently apathetic 
campus culture. However, it may 
have been the case that the goals set 
out by the event organizers did not 
accurately reflect our concerns as a 
student body. Organizers of the event 
listed their goals as being tuition-
free public college, cancellation of 
all student debt and a $15 minimum 
wage for all student workers. While 
these aspirational goals establish 
a foundation to engender student 
activism, they are undermined by the 
very same qualities that rile up crowds 
in the first place. 
According to statistics released 
by the UC Office of the President, 
approximately 57 percent of students 
have their tuition fully covered, 
and 45 percent of students graduate 
debt-free. The other 55 percent of 
students graduating from other 
schools within the UC system take 
on an average of $20,210 of student 
debt. Comparably, other four-
year public institutions leave their 
students with an average of $25,700 
in student debt. 
When nearly one in two students 
graduates debt-free, the “problem 
of free tuition” becomes one of the 
latest social media trends rather than 
a concrete set of demands. It is not that protests are ineffective. They 
inspire important conversations and 
push students to re-examine their 
place in the university, but a protest 
is trivialized to semi-organized 
walking, shouting and poster parties 
when there’s no substantial strategy 
to actualize demands.
Regardless of how the protest 
organizers intended for the march to 
happen, a low turnout will do little, 
if anything at all, to achieve those 
goals. The message was clear, but the 
protest was a flop due to a lack of 
cohesion among the marchers, their 
missions and the general meandering 
about campus. The protest began 
10 minutes early, was 45 minutes 
shorter than scheduled, took a 
wrong turn and overall was very 
disjointed. Members of A.S. Council 
attended and marched side by side 
with students, alumni and faculty, 
demonstrating that they are invested 
in our campus. However, even this 
show of solidarity was not enough 
to incense passersby. In comparison, 
organizers of protests, such as those 
for the C.H.E. Cafe, were ultimately 
successful because they had two 
fundamental qualities: unwavering 
resolve and explicit goals. What they 
lacked in numbers, they made up for 
in sheer passion, and for over a year, 
they fought to keep the facility open. 
If the Million Student March wants 
to have any of its goals even remotely recognized, this March has to be 
a marathon. This includes setting 
deadlines and solidifying its message 
without trying to be an absolute cure 
for the ills of university students. 
Remember Occupy Wall 
Street — the 99 percenters with 
their list of overarching and 
over-generalized demands, like 
dismantling income inequality and 
eliminating corruption? The cause 
was sympathetic, protesters came in 
droves and the movement created 
widespread attention to critical 
issues, such as wage inequality 
and corruption. Does this sound 
familiar to anyone? 
The protests failed to change 
anything. Although more people 
became aware of these problems, 
the movement provided no channel 
to create meaningful and lasting 
change. The Million Student 
March is similarly beautiful. It’s 
a heartwarming concept, with 
students striving to help their 
fellow students. Yet, this concept 
will undoubtedly fade into the 
oblivion of Facebook events and 
“Like” pages if the movement’s goals 
are not streamlined. Additionally, 
organizers need to find a way to 
connect with students who may 
feel like the movement has nothing 
to do with them. Million Student 
Marchers: Dream on, but keep your 
head out of the clouds.The Million Student March Tackled Too Many Issues at Once
Vincent Pham
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Tina Butoiu
MANAGING EDITOR
Rosina Garcia
MANAGING EDITOR  
Cassia Pollock
OPINION EDITOR
Kriti Sarin
NEWS EDITOR
Jacky To
ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITOR
Allison Kubo
FEATURES EDITOR
Kyle Somers
ASSOCIATE FEATURES EDITOREDITORIAL  BOARD
The UCSD Guardian is published twice a week at the 
University of California at San Diego. Contents © 
2015. Views expressed herein represent the majority 
vote of the editorial board and are not necessarily those 
of the UC Board of Regents, the ASUCSD or the 
members of the Guardian staff. The UC Board of Regents recently unveiled a proposal to admit 
10,000 more residents of California into the UC schools. In the 
2016–17 academic year, the university will admit 5,000 more 
Californians. “The University of California is meeting the challenge 
of educating as many students as it possibly can to meet, and solve, 
the challenges of the future, ” UC President Janet Napolitano said. In 
the following two years there will be additional increases of California 
residents by 2,500 spots per year. If executed correctly, the state budget will 
allocate $25 million worth of funding for the UC system. The goal of this 
enrollment increase is to improve the chances that California residents will 
be admitted into local universities. But do we actually have room for them?
This proposed enrollment increase is a plan created solely to appease 
the state, gain more funding and prove that the UC system is beneficial for 
California residents. While it is a step in the right direction to include more local 
residents at our universities and to cut down on the recruitment of international 
students as high-tuition payers, who currently represent 28.4 percent of the 
student body at UCSD according to the Los Angeles Times, we must also be 
realistic about the quantity of students that the UC system can support. The six 
colleges at UCSD are already overcrowded with students squashed together in 
single rooms converted to triples and in the overstuffed Nobel/Arriba and MTS 
buses. The procurement of more state funding sounds nice, of course, but the 
UC Regents seem to underestimate how many additional costs extra students 
will bring in. Are we as a university prepared to construct a seventh college, 
when we haven’t even bothered to officially name the sixth one yet?
“We are committed to sustaining increased access to our campuses and 
the world-class education they offer, ” Napolitano said at the Board of Regents 
meeting. This so-called world-class education may suffer if the proposal passes. We must remember that quality and quantity of our education system are often 
inversely proportional to each other. Without a doubt, by accepting increasingly 
numerous amounts of students, the quality of education at the university 
will surely suffer. Most concerningly, the UC Newsroom announced that “as 
faculty are added in tandem with more undergraduates, graduate students 
will support faculty in the university’s research mission and help with the 
teaching load associated with undergraduates. ” The same quality of education 
cannot be derived from the instruction of teaching assistants as from highly-
educated professors. Furthermore, graduate students should not be unfairly 
taken advantage of in the university’s efforts to procure state funding. Both 
undergraduate and graduate students are ultimately present at UCSD to receive 
a top-notch education, not to merely assist professors.
As accepting more in-state students into the UCs requires raising faculty 
employment, potential increases in monetary support of undergraduate student 
enrollment comes in hand with allocating an additional $6 million in state 
funding to enroll 600 more graduate students. Having more money to expand 
graduate student population, however, does not guarantee that, as teaching 
assistants, college graduates will receive fair salaries. In fact, recent protests that 
took place on UC campuses, such as last week’s Million Student March and 
protests organized by students and faculty during last spring quarter, remind 
us that TAs’ labor is largely underpaid. Working part-time, graduate students 
are not affected by the recent minimum-wage raise implemented in October. 
Therefore, if the proposed budget plan is approved by UC Regents, an increased 
number of graduate teaching assistants may face underpayment — a solid 
reason to express skepticism toward benefiting Californian undergraduate 
students at graduate students’ cost. 
To generate additional funds in order to provide for more in-state 
See STUDENT INCREASE, page 5ILLUSTRA TION   B Y  EL Y SE  Y ANG
UC Regents has created a plan to enroll 10,000 more local residents of  
California into UC schools. Although the Ed Board appreciates this sentiment, 
there is a lack of  feasible space and resources to provide for additional students.
ILLUSTRA TION   B Y  CHRISTINA  CARLSON
OverCrowdedThe Black 
Sheep of  
Child 
Marriages
Across  the  Globe
Marcus Thuillier  &  Ayat  Amin
OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , NOVEMBER 19, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
undergraduates, the University of 
California suggests phasing out 
the need-based aid provided to 
nonresident undergraduate students. 
According to the plan, this measure 
should bring in $14 million in 
2016–17. While the aid cut should not 
affect already-enrolled nonresident 
students, the complete elimination of 
need-based scholarships will certainly 
taint the image of UC schools as 
international institutions accepting 
students regardless of their cultural 
and socioeconomic backgrounds. 
If the budget passes in its 
current form, not only might graduate teaching assistants and 
international students experience 
financial difficulties, but the lack of 
proper infrastructure to host more 
scholars will disadvantage all UC 
students. Admittedly, attempts are 
being made to build new housing 
units and parking structures. 
This September, the UC Board of 
Regents Committee approved the 
East Campus housing project that 
aims to replace old buildings and 
construct over 1,000 new living 
premises for graduate students and 
professionals. However, these long-
term projects do not address the 
needs of undergraduates, the most 
prevalent on-campus group, and will not be able to accommodate 
new students due to the later 
deadlines. 
The University of California 
initiative to accept more Californians 
is neither novel nor improper. 
As a public university system, it 
should indeed set the interests of 
in-state students as its main priority. 
Relocating funds to attract more 
California residents, nevertheless, 
is a premature measure that should 
be preceded by improvements in 
infrastructure and working conditions 
for the faculty. And if the number 
of international and out-of-state 
students must go down, it should not 
disadvantage those in need.
WORLDFRONT WINDOW By David Juarez
10,000 Extra Students Will Increase Cut-Throat Competition for Resources
▶ STUDENT INCREASE  from page 4LETTER  TO  THE  EDITOR
To the survivors: 
Today I stand with all of 
you who escaped le Carillon, le 
Bataclan or the Stade de France. 
Today I stand next to ever yone 
who lost a relative or a friend in 
the beautifully shocking attacks 
that sacked Paris on Friday night. I 
stand next to any and all Muslims 
who condemned the attacks and 
that will sadly be victimized 
because of their religion once again.
This is war, as it has been called 
now in the media, that is not 
dictated by religion. This is not a 
clash of civilization, not Muslim 
against Christians. These are 
jihadist, who kill for pleasure, who 
kill in the name of their God, a God 
that continuously preaches peace 
and nonviolence in the Quran.
They do not make sense 
yet are gaining grounds on 
populations that have continuously 
been underrepresented and 
underappreciated in Western 
civilizations. Muslims have never 
been the enemy, and they should 
never become one. Categorizing 
them as a “population sensible 
to becoming terrorists” is a flaw 
from specialists and media, who 
consequently alter the general 
population into thinking it is us 
versus them.
This is not to say that those 
terrorist attacks are unimportant 
and that we should disregard them 
or that we should not handle the issue and respond effectively. 
However, at this point in time, 
barely a week after one of the 
greatest tragedies on French 
territory since World War II, we 
stand there united.
The Western world, as we might 
call it has responded to these 
attacks in a way that has made 
me proud to be French, proud to 
call Paris my city. The support, 
the awareness as to this issue has 
greatly outnumbered the few who 
have cried about kicking Muslims 
and Syrian refugees out.  
I would gladly accept those 
refugees and share a meal with 
Muslims because I do not think 
a race or religion or nationality 
should matter. And I wish Europe 
will continue to lead the way and 
do the same thing.
Finally, I wanted to address the 
world’s response to the attacks. I 
did not change my profile picture 
to blue, white and red or share the 
#PrayforParis hashtag, mostly by 
personal beliefs. Anyone who did it 
as a sign of respect for my country 
is appreciated and respected.
This is barely a week after 
the attacks and just thinking and 
speaking about it hurts me to the 
core. I am sad today after what 
happened, angry also maybe. But I 
am not scared. Today I am proud 
to be French, proud to be Parisian. 
Je suis fier d’ etre Francais, d’ etre 
parisien. Fluctuat nec mergitur. 
Paris will rise again.
                          - Marcus Thuillier
Sixth College Sophomore “... I am proud to be French, 
proud to be Parisian.”
SEND YOUR LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGWEEKEND
ARTS  |  FOOD & DRINK  |  LIVING  |  FILM & TV  |  MUSIC  |  THINGS TO DO
From young-adult novel adaptations to science fiction thrillers 
to Wes Anderson funhouses, Saoirse Ronan has refused to box 
herself in as an actress. 
   Her latest film “Brooklyn, ” however, has her returning to 
a genre in which she first gained notoriety as a rising-
child actress — period dramas. In both features, 
Saoirse portrays characters limited by their youth 
and environment. But this time, innocence, which 
underlaid the entirety of her performance in 
“At o n e m e n t ,”  s e r v e d  m e r e l y  a s  a  s t a r t i n g  p o i n t .
   Eilis, her character in “Brooklyn, ” is stuck in 
innocence, working part-time at a small-town 
bakery in 1950s Ireland under a wicked 
and embittered boss. That is, until her sister 
arranges to send her on a frighteningly 
permanent-but-hopeful trip to America 
— specifically Brooklyn. Simultaneously, 
in her own life, Saoirse experienced similarly 
daunting circumstances as she left London, her 
home at the time, to live in New Y ork City. 
   “Every kind of stage that we see Eilis reaching 
and overcoming, I was going through myself, ” 
Ronan told the UCSD Guardian. “There was sort of 
nowhere to hide, but by the same token, once you 
actually get through something like that there’s 
nothing more gratifying. ”
   Gratifying, it indeed was for Eilis as she 
grows confident in her strange and boisterous 
surroundings. She goes out at night to Irish 
dances, falls in love with an Italian sweetheart and 
even learns how to eat spaghetti correctly. Her 
character’s willingness to engage in acts beyond 
what she’s used to reflects Saoirse’s own courage 
to take on a role embedded with a maturity 
beyond what she herself is used to.
   “It was like a bloody guardian angel or 
something coming down and kind of going, 
‘Okay, you’re ready now, ’” Ronan said. “I was 
very much ready to take that step. ”
   Eilis’s development halted, however, when 
a personal tragedy forced her to return to 
Ireland. Though she intended for the trip to be 
temporary, versions of everything she valued in America appear 
in her hometown — a job, a man and a future. In spite of this, Eilis 
realized that all of these things, though attractive, are being forced 
upon her as if she were a child.
  “Even though she has evolved into the young woman who has her own 
life and her own job … nobody knows that at home and decisions are 
slowly starting to be made for her again, ” Ronan said. 
   But fortunately, Eilis is no longer a girl from a small Irish town. She’s 
now a Brooklyn woman, and she unleashes this side of her in a final 
confrontation with an all-too familiar face — the mean, old bakery 
lady.
   “She had to rise up and she had to stand up to this woman who had kicked her down 
for so long and profess who she was and the life that she had chosen, ” Ronan said. “It’s 
really at that moment that she realizes that this can’t last forever, and she needs to go 
back to the life … she had chosen before she left. ”
   And just as Eilis returned to her newfound roots in America, so did Saoirse to her 
native realm of drama. Her courage has paid off as she no longer carries the burden of 
proving that she can match whatever genre of script is given to her. Instead, Saoirse has 
earned the freedom, without risk of confinement, to do what she does best: act.
—  JACKY TO
Staff WriterCarey Mulligan’s Maude — a working-class mother 
turned suffragette — is a portrait of revolution. She is 
neither innately radical nor militant, and the opening scenes of 
“Suffragette” reveal a tired laundress skeptical of disruptions 
to the 20th-century English ideals of domesticity and social 
hierarchy. Surely this Maude is a far cry from the woman 
we see talking back — albeit eloquently — to police and 
proudly burning down houses in later episodes.             
   “[Maude] starts the film as such an ordinary woman, ” 
Mulligan told the UCSD Guardian. “ And it’s through this 
journey, through meeting these women that she becomes 
extraordinary … it’s a really big shift that she makes in a lot 
of her personality. ” 
   Maude’s initial fascination with the movement comes as 
she witnesses several suffragettes throwing bricks through 
storefront windows. And, when she hurries home to 
the open arms of her husband and son, we see just how 
much she has both to lose and to gain from joining the 
suffragettes’ campaign. 
   Her domesticity, though confining, comprises the 
entirety of her life, and to renounce her family is a 
tremendous sacrifice. 
   Yet nestled in this household, alongside the 
warmth of familiar arms, lies an overwhelming 
cloud of oppression. Maude is allowed to remain 
a part of this household only if she retains its 
identity. To gain an identity of her own, she 
must look to an alternative form of support: a 
group of rebellious women both unsatisfied 
and courageous enough to pursue a freedom 
that may take years to acquire. 
   “ At that time, to make that choice to be a 
suffragette was incredibly dangerous and 
risky and could ruin you, ” Mulligan said. 
“ And they stood behind it and endured 
everything that you see in the film … 
not for themselves but … [for] the future 
generations. And I think that kind of conviction 
for their beliefs and doing things for the betterment of 
society … was completely, in a way, really unselfish … because 
the change that would be affected wasn’t really going to affect 
their lives. ”
   It was this unity among women, that gave Maude the strength to 
make sacrifices in exchange for her own voice. 
   “It was interesting because it was the first time in history in 
England that the classes … really mixed, ” Mulligan said. “That was 
a big part of the movement. ”
   Maude’s struggle to find her own voice is one common to each 
woman in the campaign. 
   “She was based on a lot of real women, ” Mulligan said. “There was especially 
… one girl who I really focused in on who was a suffragette who … essentially 
started off life very poor and married very young. And had a lot of similar background to 
Maude. And then she came across the suffragettes, and they sparked something in her. And 
she just took on this completely different life. ”
   But Maude’s character resonates with more women than the distant, bonnet-clad 
suffragettes of the past. 
   “I think there are lots of things that make it relevant today, ” Mulligan said. “We never 
wanted this to feel like a sort of old costume drama; we always wanted it to feel very 
present. ”
   And surely Mulligan’s portrayal of Maude — a woman frustrated by societal confinement 
but brave enough to instigate change — is one that can certainly still be felt.
—  KARLY NISSON
A&E EditorCarey MulliganDaughters of Cinema
“Hope has two beautiful daughters; their names are Anger and Courage. Anger at the way 
things are, and Courage to see that they do not remain as they are.” 
-St. Augustine
saOirse    Ronan:
“BROOKLYN”  carey    mulligan:
“SUFFRAGETTE”  A&E EDITOR // KARLY NISSON 
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITORS // OLGA GOLUBKOVA & BRITTNEY LU 
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
photo courtesy of aceshowbizphoto courtesy of trbimg.comWEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , NOVEMBER 19, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
5DLM13305FAL__CollegeDayPrintAd__GUARDIAN__RUN:11_19_15__10X8   
FREE ADMISSION 
FOR COLLEGE 
STUDENTSSATURDAY, 
NOVEMBER 21
DelMarScene.com *Pre-paid tickets, complimentary tickets and season passes will not be      
accepted for concert admission after the last race.
FEATURING   
FEATURING
  
1:30 PM  Red Bull DJ, College-priced BBQ Specials,   
 Live College Football on Flatscreens,Tailgate   
 Games, Wagering Pamphlets, Hippity Hop Sign-Ups
2:00 PM  Hippity Hop Derby Heat No.1  
 (First Half to Finish Advance to Final)
2:30 PM  Newcomer Wagering Seminar with  
 ABR Ambassador Jose Contreras    3:00 PM  Hippity Hop Derby Heat No. 2  
 (First Half to Finish Advance to Final)
3:30 PM  Jockey Photo Op 
4:00 PM  Hippity Hop Derby Finals & Award HHD Champion
4:30 PM  Red Bull DJ Finale    SCHEDULE OF EVENTS IN THE SEASIDE CABANAWrap up your party day with the alternative/reggae sounds of this fall’s Reggae 
Fest, in the Seaside concert area, west of the Grandstand. Admission to the track 
before the last race gets you into the concert for free. Concert is ages 18 & up. *The track meets the tailgate this November 21, at Del Mar from 12:30 - 4:30 p.m.  
The ultimate college team-up boasts the best of both worlds – partying, rivalries, grilled 
meat, D.J. battles, libations, racehorses and football. Sponsored by the San Diego 
County Toyota Dealers, a student I.D. gets you into the afternoon celebrations for free. 
Races begin at 12:30 p.m. along with other festivities to commemorate the day.
5DLM13305FAL_CollegeDay_Guardian_10x8.indd   1 10/28/15   2:52 PMCarey Mulligan
Famed Brazilian contemporary artist Ernesto Neto’s art piece 
“Mother Body Emotional Densities, for Alive Temple Time Baby 
Son” will once again grace the space within the Farrell Gallery. 
It was previously installed January 2007 but was only presented 
until May of the same year. The installation, permanently owned 
by MCASD, encapsulates Neto’s neoconcretistic style. The piece 
is a vibrant sensory experience — spices are collected together 
and suspended within fabric, forming celestial sacs, each with a 
colorful personality and life. The warm hues and polyp-shaped 
sacs create an alien space contrasting the everyday experience, 
while hinting at something organic and familiar. Installations 
usually provide only a visual stimulation, but Neto is able to spark 
olfactory nerves, a feat most artists don’t consider tackling. The 
many spices converge into a unique perfume permeating the room, 
gently touching the senses. This multidimensional piece can be 
viewed from Nov. 20 to Feb. 21.
When you were a kid, were you told not to stare 
at the sun for too long? Well, here’s your chance to 
fight back. At this promisingly ethereal and dazzling 
collection of light, Robert Irwin returns to the 
primitive building blocks of art to create an expose 
that’s sure to be stunning. Without giving too much 
away, Irwin’s display of minimalist and geometric 
fluorescent patterns draws you into two binary worlds 
of light and dark and plays with your senses through 
perspectives and shadows. As an installation-based 
artist, Irwin teases the human eye by creating multi-
dimensional pieces, and through the medium of light, 
his concoction of incandescent innovation is sure 
to please both your intellectual and aesthetic sides. 
Sure, it may not be the sun, but its brilliance comes 
at a very close second. Make sure to check out this 
installation from Nov. 20 to Feb. 21.In an exhibition that is, in the most literal sense, dark and 
unconventional, Judith Barry seeks to explore the relationship 
between the physical and psychological. That is, in one 
possible interpretation of this masterpiece, the relationship 
between hearing intentional clear voices and distracting 
ourselves with meaningless background noise. We try to 
differentiate the insignificance of noise from the importance 
of voice in our lives, but there comes a time, more often than 
not, when we feel the need to merge the two in hopes of 
reducing the burden of separating the things that truly matter 
from those that don’t. Best known as a writer, architect 
and artist, Judith Barry brings to life these concepts in her 
exhibition “V oice Off.” As the name suggests, the exhibition 
consists of a large room divided into two by a curtain 
serving as a double-sided screen, onto which two entirely 
different projections and metaphoric narratives are displayed 
simultaneously. One cannot help but wonder what the New 
York artist had in mind when imagining such a thoughtful 
affair, which “dramatizes complex aural and vocal cues” in 
an intimate physical space.
Tired of the biochemistry/mechanical engineering/computer science culture that 
dominates UCSD? Revel in the artistic side of things and check out the new 
installation exhibits at the Museum of Contemporary Art to fulﬁll the creative side 
that calculus and balancing chemistry reactions can often snatch away.New Art Spaces Open at Museum 
of Contemporary Art San Diego
Ernesto Neto
Written by: Maria Manalang 
//Lifestyle Contributing Writer
Written by: Brittney Lu //Lifestyle Co-EditorRobert IrwinMother Body 
Emotional Densities, For 
Alive Temple Time Baby Son
Light and Space
Judith Barry
Voice Off
Written by: Ian Le Tran //Lifestyle Contributing WriterPhotos provided by 
MCASD 
// Artwork located at 
MCASD Downtown, 
Jacobs Building8     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , NOVEMBER 19, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  WEEKEND
Another routine day draining 
you of energy when all you can think 
about is gulping down some liquid 
zeal, commonly known as coffee? If 
this feeling caught you off guard at 
East Village, now you can get your 
“cup of life” at Copa Vida, a Pasadena-
based coffee shop that opened last 
month in the Diamond View Towers.
Located down the block from 
Bean Bar, which just celebrated its 
one-year anniversary, Copa Vida 
shares a similar minimalistic, bright 
atmosphere. Both coffee places 
actively implement wood as a 
decorative material, adding coziness 
to balance out the exposure created 
by floor-to-ceiling office windows. 
It becomes evident that these two 
businesses are not just neighbors 
once you notice they both installed 
the same espresso machine, uniquely 
elegant Spirit rare for local cafes. 
Knowing that the espresso machine 
is the heart of every coffee-serving 
place, Copa Vida’s owners deliberately chose Spirit for its small size and clear 
tops to allow baristas to maintain a 
conversation with customers while 
preparing their drinks. The coffee 
shop’s focus on serving the community 
is also clear, since Copa Vida promotes 
itself as a venue for business meetings 
and local music and art performances. 
Soon after the opening, it hosted 
one of the tours of Thursday Night 
Throwdown, the main latte art 
competition among San Diego coffee 
shops, proving that Copa Vida is here 
to become an active member of San 
Diego coffee scene.
In addition to the space, 
Copa Vida’s menu is created to 
serve customers with all possible 
preferences. Today, many cafes prefer 
to focus on either food or coffee to 
guarantee high-level quality. In fact, 
some coffee shops choose to narrow 
down their drinks spectrum and 
serve coffee without any additional 
ingredients, while others specialize 
in more complex, mixed hot drinks. 
One place can offer coffee but refuse 
to sell tea. But making up your mind 
and coordinating your preferences with others is never easy, so Copa 
Vida does not limit its clients and 
provides a menu that combines 
popular coffee options and a truly 
extensive tea list with a surprisingly 
all-encompassing number of 
breakfast, lunch and “extended hour” 
dishes. Luckily, Copa Vida employees 
equally value the quality and quantity 
of their culinary creations. With five 
people at the counter and more at 
the kitchen and a self-order system, 
this cafe’s professionals quickly 
prepare well-known classics like 
cappuccino, jasmine tea, traditional 
French toast and smoked turkey 
melts. It also does not take them 
long to make Copa Vida’s very own 
Mediterranean couscous, breakfast 
burritos, Shakerato (iced latte with 
an extra shot shaken with agave) and, 
the UCSD Guardian’s new favorite, 
Brulee Mint Latte (hot tea-based 
drink that combines minty, creamy 
and caramel flavors).
Located among many office 
buildings, Copa Vida is ready to speed 
up for those who are too busy to stand 
in line. Free of snobbism and full of appreciation for customers’ time, it 
offers an “honor bar” option with 
coffee on Fetco and cold brew on tap 
for iced coffee and iced tea. Those 
who prefer to work in a coffee shop 
environment will be pleased to know 
that Copa Vida can accommodate 
coffee- and tea-loving laptop users 
by providing Wi-Fi. The number of 
outlets, however, is rather limited and, 
as Copa Vida’s employees believe that 
everything is good in moderation, 
Wi-Fi is turned off on Saturday and 
Sunday mornings from 9 a.m. to 3 
p.m. to encourage people to look up 
from their screens.
Copa Vida’s East Village location 
is steadily becoming a busy place, 
daily visited by local office workers. 
And while it is located rather far 
from campus, trust us in that paying 
Copa Vida a visit during brunch time 
from 8 a.m till 4 p.m. is a worthy 
weekend pursuit.BY   o l g a  g o l u b ko v a
Lifestyle Co-EditorREST AURANT   REVIEW
OLGA  GOLUBK OV A   lifestyle@ucsdguardian.orgreaders can contactHOURS:
Monday to Friday: 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m.
Saturday to Sunday: 8:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m.LOCATION:
905 J St., San Diego, CA 92101The  Christian  
Lifestyle:  
An Advice 
Column 
I’m currently writing an 
essay and I don’t know 
where to start. What should 
I do?   — Anonymous
Always start at JSTOR. Plebeians 
begin their adventure in the shallow 
waters of Wikipedia with their 
Abercrombie-esque inflatable 
tubes, wading through mounds of 
circumlocutious jargon written by 
an adjunct professor desperate to get 
work out somewhere. News flash: 
“The Breakfast Club” is a fictitious 
construct made of keratin; the real 
line is, “No, I am your father” and 
anything inspired by the contents of 
a Wikipedia page is about as lively as 
a sad chicken wrapped in a shower 
loofa. Y ou have come to UCSD with 
a premeditated agenda, whether 
that is the enforcement of a careless 
appropriation of Kumeyaay land to 
get a degree in STEM (only to be 
struck with a sudden epiphany or 
perhaps tough it out and stick with 
becoming an acclaimed physician) 
or say you attend a school right next 
to the beach with a music festival as 
acclaimed as Coachella. If such is 
the case, you should also be aware 
of the many resources UCSD offers: 
databases, librarians and the faculty at 
this school.
Perhaps you’ve carelessly glazed 
over the list of items in your UCSD 
goody-bag when you hastily signed 
your intent to register at UCSD and 
avoided the run-down of tools that 
you’re paying for. No, you’re not just 
paying for the sustenance of Price 
Center, student organizations and 
RIMAC; you’re also paying for well-
coveted access to an extensive list of 
databases. Normally, you’ d be wading 
in bills for an academic article that 
discusses Gangnam Style’s aesthetic 
cinematography, but as a student, 
you’re covered. Need to research 
cephalopods as an alien discourse? 
Database that. Don’t know where to 
begin with your extensive, in-depth 
investigation of the Spanish Civil 
War? #database.
Now, if you’re oblivious to this 
resource, swipe right on this fact: 
Y ou can appropriate a librarian and 
have them do the research for you. 
How postmodern, I know. Ask-A-
Librarian is a shiny, new state-of-the-
art technology invented specifically 
to make sure your papers don’t flop 
around like a soggy Maruchan noodle. 
There’s a 24-hour chatroom where 
you can ask surface-level questions 
about all your needs to a librarian, 
who is happy to assist you with 
whatever needs might float your way. 
Trust me, they can help with anything. 
I once asked if there were any articles 
on “psionic abilities with dogs, ” and I 
got some great articles.
If you need extra assurance and 
you’re starting well in advance, there’s 
nothing wrong with discussing your 
paper with a professor or a teaching 
assistant. Y ou can play brain volleyball 
and discuss your project — just don’t 
do it last minute!
Need any advice on acclimating to 
UCSD? Struggling with a nasty case 
of the break-up? Need better ways to 
burn a tuna melt sandwich? Reach 
out to us at
lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org with your 
questions and your anonymity, if 
wanted, and we’ll answer as many as 
we can!
CHRISTIAN GELLA 
CGELLA@UCSD.EDU
FIND US 
ON FACEBOOK 
WWW.FACEBOOK.COM/UCSDGUARDIAN
In the intimate Sheryl & Harvey 
White Theatre, you will fall in love 
with “ As Y ou Like It, ” just as the 
characters of the play fall madly and 
suddenly in love. Directed by Justin 
W aldman, the play represents a 
partnership between University of San 
Diego’s Theatre M.F .A. program and 
The Old Globe. 
“ As Y ou Like It, ” the Bard’s 
most beloved comedy, tells of the 
banishment, romance and return of 
Rosalind (Ally Carey), Celia (Makha 
Mthembu) and Orlando (Daniel 
Petzold). After Rosalind’s father, Duke 
Senior (Nathan Whitmer), is usurped 
and banished to the mysterious Forest 
of Arden, she and her faithful cousin 
Celia are forced to leave the court of the newly crowned Duke Frederick 
(Lorenzo Landini). They escape to the 
Forest of Arden with Rosalind posing 
as a young lad, Ganymede, and meet 
the lovesick Orlando, also banished. 
Rosalind, now dressed as Ganymede, 
promises to cure Orlando of his love 
for Rosalind by pretending to be her. 
Homoerotic subtext, wit, wordplay 
and drama flow freely. 
This hilarity of the mistaken 
identity is undercut by the ever-
melancholy Jaques (Amy Blackman), 
who performs some of the Bard’s 
most famous monologues and 
arguably some of the most cunning 
lines of the play. Famous for his 
unexplainable sullenness, Jaques 
exhibits quiet sadness, undercutting his biting wit, which is more cynical 
than petulant. This depth is best seen 
in her scenes with the wounded deer 
which weave hauntingly through the 
play. When the deer is finally killed, 
her sadness isn’t overdone, instead it 
burns through her lines and cynical 
humor. Blackman plays Jaques like the 
character is supposed to played, with 
subtlety and an understanding of the 
woes of the world.
Another standout character is 
the loving Celia. The most beautiful 
aspect of Celia is her ability to love, 
and Mthembu gives the role her heart 
as well as her quick tongue. 
The banter between Rosalind and 
Celia is easily the fastest and funniest 
of the show. The two cousins are 
matched in acumen only by Orlando 
and Jaques. However, the funniest 
lines of the show are awarded to 
Touchstone (Ajinkya Desai), the 
exiled court jester or fool. Desai, 
another reason to see the production, 
is a UCSD alumna who majored in 
engineering and plays Touchstone 
with exaggeration and exuberance.
Each of the characters stands out in his or her own way, which 
they must in the small theater-in-
the-round. A ladder, two boxes 
and the occasional rope or set of 
papers serve as the only props of the 
play. However, the excellent acting 
and choreography make the props 
appear to be much more; the ladder 
becomes a tree, table or wall based 
on the character’s need. Adding to 
an already beautiful rendition of this 
comedic classic, all the characters are 
dressed in 1950s apparel from floral 
dresses to knit cardigans. Each look 
is tailored to the character’s social 
standing and attitude; the exiled 
members of the court wear patchy 
tweeds while Touchstone wears a set 
of pastel shirts reminiscent of the 
motley costume of jesters. 
Whether you are a lover of 
Shakespeare or just along for the ride, 
the USD M.F .A. Program’s Production 
of “ As Y ou Like It” isn’t just likeable 
and fun — it’s lovable.
— Allison  kubo
Staff WriterDirected by   Justin Waldman
Written by  William Shakespeare
Starring  Amy Blackman, Ally Carey, Makha Mthembu, Ajinkya Desai   
Runs   Nov. 14 to Nov. 22
Location  The Old GlobeAt the Old Globe, USD Theater M.F .A. graduate 
students shine in the 1950s styled “ As Y ou Like It. ” PHOTO COURTESY OF ALASTAIR MUIR as  you  li ke  itcop a  VIDA 
PLA Y   REVIEWWEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , NOVEMBER 19, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
Based on the true story of 
the San Jose mine collapse 
in Copiapo in 2010, the 
aptly named “The 33” tells the story 
of the mission to save 33 miners 
trapped deep underground for 69 
days. Though marketed as a serious 
documentary drama, the film’s 
cliched comic relief, underdeveloped 
characters and larger-than-life 
situations reduce it to a mere shadow 
of its potential.
Opening with dramatic, sweeping 
scenes of the Atacama Desert in Chile, 
“The 33” begins with well-framed 
cinematography that delves deep 
into the mine, giving audiences an 
ominous sense of the depth of the hole 
and delivering a promising start to the 
movie. The film then cuts to scenes of the miners and their families’ day-to-
day lives: there’s Alex (Mario Casas), 
a new husband with a pregnant wife; 
Dario (Juan Pablo Raba), a drunk 
who sleeps on a bench despite his 
sister’s (Juliette Binoche) attempts 
to engage him; Mario (Antonio 
Banderas), a passionate family man; 
Y onni (Oscar Nunez), with both a wife 
and a mistress vying for his affections 
and many others. Despite setting 
up heartwarming backstories, these 
moments are, sadly, the only glimpses 
into the characters’ motivations in the 
entire movie.
The drama unfolds before work on 
a seemingly normal day as the shift 
supervisor, Luis “Don Lucho” Urzua 
(Lou Diamond Phillips), warns his 
boss of its instability. The unnamed mine owner dismisses the concern in 
a stereotypical, businesslike way in one 
of the movie’s only attempts to address 
underlying social issues behind the 
collapse. When the mine eventually 
collapses, families begin to gather and 
protest. Golborne (Rodrigo Santoro), 
the idealistic Minister of Mining then 
convinces the president to stage a 
government intervention. In the span 
of a few minutes, Golborne goes from 
promising Maria to do something 
about the issue, to proclaiming there 
is nothing to be done and finally 
recommitting to action in an overly 
dramatized manner. 
Throughout the rest of the movie, 
various attempts are made by the 
pragmatic head engineer Andre 
Sougarret (Gabriel Byrne) to find the 
miners, and, of course, in keeping with 
true Hollywood fantasy, the idealistic 
Golborne ultimately proposes the 
successful strategy. Meanwhile, slowly 
starving, the miners rally under 
“Super Mario, ” whose hope of rescue 
spurs him to meticulously ration food 
for all and uplift his comrades’ morale. 
Banderas’ bombastic performance as Mario, while exaggerated, emphasizes 
the individual heroism of the 
character in a thoroughly entertaining 
manner. After successfully locating 
the miners, the crew above looks to 
the next task: struggling to get them 
out, which takes the bulk of the 69 
days they are trapped. However, 
the movie passes quickly after the 
miners are found — the starved 
miners’ delirium is quickly replaced 
with sudden fame and a vast supply 
of gifts, and Mario is tempted by a 
book deal that he ultimately refuses 
in favor of preserving his friendship 
with the miners. The miners are 
eventually rescued, and families are 
triumphantly reunited as all emerge 
above ground safely. As the credits 
roll, footage of the actual miners is 
shown in an admirable attempt at a 
poignant end to the film, with text that 
proclaims that the miners were never 
compensated, attempting to bring up 
some sort of commentary on social 
issues surrounding the event.
Rather than focusing on the 
miners’ — particularly Mario’s — 
individual heroism, “The 33” glosses over the underlying issues of why 
the mine collapsed, why government 
support was so delayed and how such 
an unsafe mine could be allowed to 
operate. While still an engaging story, 
it’s clear that it aims to have more 
significance than it achieves. Though 
filmed on location, the script is almost 
entirely in English. Despite being 
filmed close to the actual mine site, 
“The 33” disappointingly highlights 
little of the culture it is representing. 
Albeit admirable performances by 
the lead actors, the little character 
development present in the movie 
comes solely in the form of comic 
relief and literally undermines the 
depth of the movie.
Peppered with tired tropes, 
shallow character development and 
unnecessarily obtuse portrayals 
of events, “The 33” aims to add 
big screen drama to a real event 
but delivers an entertaining yet 
unsubstantial piece.
—  chandra  couzens 
Staff Writer
Few things are as disgusting to 
our moral sense, and to our 
stomachs, as the widespread 
epidemic of child molestation. 
Powerful, dramatic films like Shanley’s 
“Doubt” and Almodovar’s “La Mala 
Educacion” have explored the endless 
pain and manifold consequences of 
this crude, ongoing, institutionalized 
reality within the Catholic Church. 
“Spotlight, ” Tom McCarthy’s (“Win 
Win”) fifth feature as writer/director, 
aims for something different. The 
focus here is not on the victims or the 
degenerate clergy, but on the people 
who uncovered the abuses. As such, “Spotlight” plays a delicate game. It 
needs to portray the somber, often-
tedious work of a group of Boston 
Globe journalists without turning 
away from the gruesome nature of 
pedophilic abuses. McCarthy does 
this by having language, rather than 
images, do the work: it is the graphic 
use of words that forcefully capture 
the film’s gravity and importance. This 
is no small accomplishment. 
The plot follows a group of 
four investigative reporters — The 
Spotlight Team — who is assigned a 
new case by the paper’s new editor 
Marty Baron (Liev Schreiber). Baron is the type of person who may 
very well go to the grave without 
ever having smiled. His uncanny 
hermetism, however, makes him a 
great journalist. Baron reads a story 
about a notorious pederast priest, and 
it doesn’t take him long to decipher 
that that’s only the tip of the iceberg. 
The Spotlight Team is then ordered 
to stop all activities and begin further 
investigation. Soon enough they find 
themselves with their hands full — 
full of evidence, that is, detailing a 
systematic cover-up by the Church 
of dozens child abuse cases. As the 
research progresses, the extent of the 
Church’s involvement and the number 
of people implicated continues to rise.  
The script takes its time to 
unfold, deliberately slowing things 
down to let the audience process the 
information alongside the reporters. 
A gripping scene shows Spotlight 
Team member Sacha Pfeiffer (Rachel 
McAdams) interrogating an accused 
priest and fearlessly asking if the 
allegations are in fact true, to which the priest casually responds that, 
of course he “played around with 
kids, ” but to please, please be assured 
that he took no pleasure from it. 
McAdams’ expression lingers between 
confusion and anger: it exists in a 
place where heinous actions have 
become fundamentally unintelligible. 
“Spotlight” illustrates, once again, 
the astonishing truth about all 
hierarchical, institutionalized 
atrocities: the perpetrators are often 
mediocre, petty, all-too-normal 
individuals. The contrast between 
the magnitude of the crime and the 
banality (to echo Hannah Arendt) 
of the criminals makes us shiver 
with revulsion. It also highlights 
an even-more-familiar truth: 
large-scale wrongdoings never go 
unnoticed and there are always lonely 
individuals (e.g. the victims) crying 
out for help. In spite of this, however, 
the majority of us remain mere 
spectators. “Spotlight” never shies 
away from questioning our integrity 
as a community: “If it takes a village to raise a child, ” says a victim’s lawyer 
(played superbly by Stanley Tucci), “it 
also takes a village to abuse one. ”
“Spotlight” is a worthy example 
of a film that remains faithful to 
its style. The cast, led by Michael 
Keaton and Mark Ruffalo, mirrors 
the script’s pragmatic tone; the 
performances render the seriousness 
of the journalistic endeavor, 
but remain clean of over-blown 
dramatization. The end product is an 
accomplished film that knows how 
to tell its story. Unlike the priests it 
exposes, and despite its important 
message, “Spotlight” never indulges 
in superficial moralizing. Before 
the credits roll, McCarthy shows 
the names of the hundreds of cities 
where there’s been institutionalized 
pederasty; we recognize this as an 
act of integrity. There is no heroism 
in “Spotlight;” there are only honest 
people doing their job. That has to 
count for something.
—  Mario a ttie 
Senior Staff WriterDirected by   Patricia Riggen
Starring  Antonio Banderas, Rodrigo Santoro, Juliette Binoche
Rated  PG-13
Release Date  Nov. 13“The 33” shallowly develops a narrative that skims 
over the realities of the Copiapo mining accident.
Directed by   Tom McCarthy
Starring  Michael Keaton, Mark Ruffalo, Rachel McAdams, Brian d’Arcy 
Jamese
Rated  R
Release Date  Nov. 20McCarthy admirably shines a light on the moral and 
bureaucratic faults of the Catholic Church.the  33
spotlightFILM   REVIEW
FILM   REVIEWPHOTOS COURTESY OF ACESHOWBIZ
PHOTOS COURTESY OF OPEN ROAD FILMS10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , NOVEMBER 19, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDS$
Gua rdian Classifieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedsBIKES
Electra 3sp The Cherry Bike - $400. This is 
a very nice 26 Electra. It has nexus internal 
hub 3-speed. Electra cherry print saddle. 
Cherry fenders. Cherry valve caps. Cream 
tires. It’s in really excellent condition. Price 
is firm. Listing ID: 207853816 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
Men’s Specialized Mountain Bike - $300. 
Like brand new. Listing ID: 207853817 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Hybrid E-bike - $700. I have a Hybrid E-bike 
for sale. It has front forks and 700c wheels. 
The E-bike is 36v350w, it has a 36v lith -
ium battery and charger. I ride it daily 
from home to UTC and back home. I use 
it mostly for the hills and one charge is 
enough for the day. Listing ID: 207853806 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
ELECTRONICS
Xbox 360 Console - $80. Xbox 360 console 
comes with A-C adapter, HDMI cable, two 
controllers and Black Ops 2. Listing ID: 
206994193 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
OtterBox Commuter Part B - $15. White. 
Perfect condition, still in box. Listing ID: 
206994188 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Wireless Router - $10. Linksys wireless 
router. Model no. WRT54G. Listing ID: 
2063994187 at ucsdguardian.org/classi -
fieds for more information
FURNITURE
Wooden Armoire/Dresser - $575. Gorgeous 
armoire/dresser in excellent condition. This 
piece adds charm to any room and creates 
lots of space to store or to hold a TV. Easy to 
transport as it breaks down nicely. Listing 
ID: 206981209 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
Dining Table - $90. Pick up from PB. Solid 
wood, dark ‘espresso’ finish. 42w x 60l x 
30 h. Includes extension leaf. Listing ID: 
207853870 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Colorful Lamp - $15. Lamp from Target. 
Only used for a few months. Attractive con -
dition. Listing ID: 206994199 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more informationComplete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies 
on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.ukLevel: 1234 Level: 1234
SUDOKU
LECTURENOTESIS HIRING
NOTETAKERS
FOR WINTER ‘16
Pick up an application at
Lecture No tes in the
Student Center or
lecturenotes.ucsd.edu
Must have 3.0 or be tter
Earn $10.00 per hour
Appli cation & SA MPLE N OTES
     are due WEDNESDAY
           of f inals wee k
as-lecture-notes@ucsd.eduwhat do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
#OMG 
#LIKE US
#FOLLOW US
@ucsdgua rdian
MORE INFO AT SOVAC.UCSD.EDU/REGISTER
t
your vision,
our mission.
The Associated Students Store Contact outfitters@ucsd.edu for more info.Create custom apparel to promote your
student organization with Triton Outfitter's
new Made TO Order  program!SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , NOVEMBER 19, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11ADMIT ONEADMIT ONEADMIT ONE
ADMIT ONE
AT ARCLIGHTAT red robin&a
For more information, contact http:/ /facebook.com/ucsdacta
SPORTS  CLUBS
Women’s Volle yball : The UCSD women’s volleyball team headed to UC 
Irvine for the Anteater Invitational this past weekend. 
The Tritons took on the Loyola Marymount University Lions first. UCSD 
had a strong showing in the first set, but LMU proved too strong for the Tritons 
in the following two. UCSD was defeated in three tight sets to open up the day. 
The second match of the day was against Arizona State University. The 
Tritons took the lead early on once again and maintained it throughout the 
entire match to get their first win of the preseason.
In the third and final game of the day against University of Arizona, UCSD 
lost in two very tight sets, falling to a good defense on the Wildcats’ side. 
UCSD started off against Northern Arizona University on Sunday morning. 
Despite falling behind early in the first set, UCSD got back up in the two 
following ones, ultimately winning in three sets to move into the Gold bracket.
Unfortunately, the team lost its first game in the Gold bracket, finishing the 
tournament 2–3.
Dragon Boat : This weekend, the UCSD dragon boat team travelled 500 miles 
north to San Francisco to compete in the 11th-annual CDBA College Cup 
Championship race along with the top dragon boat teams in California. The 
veteran crew won each of its races up until the finals, and the new recruits who 
just joined this quarter showed a dramatic improvement from the San Diego 
Dragon Boat race held just five weeks ago.
UCSD took fifth in the A Division College Championship Finals, sixth in B 
Division College Championship Finals and sixth in Open Championship Finals, 
the first time in many years since the Open crew made it to the finals.
Women’s Ultimate : On Nov. 14 and 15, the UCSD women’s ultimate frisbee team 
traveled to the Sean Ryan Memorial Tournament in Santa Cruz.
In game one against UC Santa Cruz, the Psychos took the first half 7–2 behind 
a few great layout catches from Maria Zavala. Dena Elimelech contributed in the 
second half to finish the game with a 12–4 win.
The second game of the tournament was against the USC Hellions. Despite 
fierce competition, the Psychos came out on top again, winning handily 10–5.
The last game of the day against Sonoma State saw the Psychos take the game 
7–4 behind good defense from the rookies, and UCSD finished the day with an 
unblemished record.COMPILED BY BRITTNEY VIERRA
apiece after a Shokoor layup. The 
Toros finished the quarter with a 
13–7 run to take a lead they did not 
relinquish. 
Down 27–33 at halftime, UCSD 
cut its deficit to five after five min -
utes of play in the third quarter, but 
another run from Cal State Domin -
guez Hills put UCSD in a 15-point 
hole at the end of the third quarter. 
The Tritons never recovered 
from that third quarter 10–0 run by the Toros and allowed another 
20 points in the final frame, scoring 
only 11 points and ultimately losing 
by 24 points, 69–45.
Katuna had a team high of 14 
points. Shokoor had nine rebounds 
for the second consecutive game 
but suffered through a rough night 
of shooting. The two were over -
shadowed by Cal State Dominguez 
Hills senior guards Breanne Garcia, 
who led all players with 29 points, 
and Monay Lee, who chipped in 17. Fellow senior guard Kielyn Wilson 
had the only double-double in the 
game, compiling 11 points and 10 
boards.
The Tritons will travel to Azusa 
Pacific University on a short week 
for the Northwest Classic. UCSD 
plays Seattle Pacific University 
on Friday, Nov. 20 at 3 p.m. and 
Western Washington University on 
Saturday, Nov. 21 at 5 p.m.
start, but I thought in the second 
half we came out and played with a 
lot more aggression, ” UCSD Head 
Coach Eric Olen told the UCSD 
Athletics Department.
Lipovich led the team in scoring 
with 16 points off of 6–7 shooting, 
while junior guard Adam Klie led 
the team with five rebounds to go 
along with nine points and a team-
high three assists. The team finished 
the game with a meager shooting 
percentage of 38.7 percent but 
made 11 out of 27 three-point shots 
for 40.7 percent. The team took 
advantage of its foul shots, making 
14 out of 15.
UC Irvine’s seven-foot-six junior 
center Mamadou Ndiaye led the team 
in points and blocks with 16 and six, 
respectively. Junior guards Jaron 
Martin and Luke Nelson, junior 
forward Ioannis Dimakopoulos 
and freshman forward Jonathan 
Galloway all scored in double digits.   
The match was an exhibition, so 
neither team’s record was affected by 
the results.Game Two
Using the knowledge gained 
from their exhibition match, the 
Tritons achieved better results on 
Tuesday night. The team started the 
game with a bang thanks to a three-
pointer by senior forward Drew 
Dyer, assisted by Klie. The first half 
was a back-and-forth affair with 
four ties and eight lead changes. 
However, after grabbing a rebound 
off his own missed shot, senior 
guard Hunter Walker put the team 
up 26–25 with 6:39 left in the half, a 
lead UCSD never relinquished. 
The two teams shot fairly evenly 
throughout the first half, with UCSD 
shooting 14–27 for 51.9 percent and 
Winona State shooting 11–22 for 
50 percent flat. Both teams scored 
14 points in the paint, but the 
Tritons took advantage of their 
opportunities, scoring eight points 
off turnovers compared to the 
Warriors’ two.
During the second half, the 
Tritons took absolute control of 
the game. With the help of Klie’s 
15 points off of 5–6 shooting, the 
Tritons dominated the Warriors on both ends of the ball. Holding 
the Warriors to just 6–22 for 27.3 
percent, the UCSD men’s basketball 
team’s defense forced 11 turnovers, 
allowing the Tritons to score 17 
points off of them. Leading by as 
many 22 points, the Tritons easily 
put the Warriors away 77–60.
Klie led the team with team highs 
of 17 points, six rebounds and four 
assists, with Dyer right behind him 
at 16 points. Sophomore guard Grant 
Jackson and senior forward Zach 
McMillan both came away with five 
rebounds apiece. The team finished 
the game on 26–50 shooting and 
hitting 8–19 of its three-point shots. 
Winona State’s Mark Blacklock 
led the Warriors with 15 points 
on 6–11 shooting, along with four 
rebounds and four steals, but it was 
not enough to help the Warriors’ 
17–44 mediocre shooting for the 
night.
The Tritons host the 2–0 
Colorado School of Mines on 
Sunday, Nov. 22.readers can contact
Marcus Thuillier   mthuilli@ucsd.edu 
readers can contact
Alex Wu   adw006@ucsd.edu UCSD Slated to Play in Northwest Classic at Azusa Pacific
Tritons Set to Face Oredig gers at RIMAC Arena this Weekend▶ W. BASKETBALL,  from page 12
▶ M. BASKETBALL,  from page 12SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
MARCUS THUIILLIER
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , NOVEMBER 19, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
bi-weekl y
summar y
ROWING
Men’s Open 8+ Race
Women’s Open 4+ RaceWomen’s Open 8+ Race4th
7th, 8th & 12th7th & 9th
UCSD
UCSDUCSD
UCSDCSU San Marcos
CSU San MarcosCSU Dominguez Hills
CSU Dominguez HillsWOMEN'S
BASKETBALL
MEN'S
BASKETBALL73 - 60
73 - 8945 - 69
77 - 60
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
Tritons Split First Set of  Conference Matchups 
UCSD takes victory against Cal State San Marcos at home, falls to Cal State Dominguez Hills on the road.
The UCSD women’s basketball team opened its season with a pair of 
tilts against California Collegiate Athletic Association rivals. After 
winning the first game against Cal State San Marcos in convinc -
ing fashion on Saturday at home, UCSD suffered a setback in the second 
game, falling to defeat Cal State Dominguez Hills on the road on Tuesday. 
The Tritons stand at 1–1 in CCAA play and overall.
Game One 
“We are playing a lot of young people, but they are very lucky because 
they are playing with a very solid core of veterans like Farrah Shokoor, 
Taylor Tanita, Cassie Callahan and Cassie Macleod,” UCSD women’s bas -
ketball Head Coach Heidi VanDerveer told the UCSD Athletics Depart -
ment. 
UCSD started off slow, quickly falling down by eight points after only 
10 minutes of play. The perimeter defense suffered against Cal State San 
Marcos, as UCSD allowed five three-pointers in the first quarter. UCSD 
closed out the first quarter down 21–13.
“In the first seven minutes of the game we didn’t come to the party, ” 
VanDerveer said. “The party started without us. That can’t happen. We 
have to really start from the very beginning, and if that happens we will be 
really great offensively. ”
The Tritons responded in the second quarter and went on a quick 16–3 
run, fueled by a senior forward Farrah Shokoor layup, two three-pointers 
from junior guard Beth Mounier and two more made shots by senior 
guard Jamie Katuna. UCSD continued to put pressure on the Cougars, 
with Mounier adding another three-pointer and Katuna sinking a couple 
of free throws to bring the lead to eight at the break. After 20 minutes of 
play, the Tritons were up 38–30 over the Cougars.  Coming out of the break, the Cougars had a 10–2 run to tie the game 
up at 40 apiece. The Tritons did not let that get to them, however, and 
went on to score 22 points to finish the quarter with a 62–49 advantage, 
thanks to sophomore guard Taylor Tanita’s five points and junior forward 
Cassie MacLeod’s six.
After a little more than five minutes played in the fourth quarter, a 
layup from MacLeod put the Tritons up by 18 points, their biggest lead 
of the game. Up 73–51, UCSD released the pressure a little bit, and Cal 
State San Marcos scored nine points to close out the game. With such a 
comfortable advantage, UCSD won the game by 13 points, 73–60, in its 
first meeting with its new conference opponents.
“I think we have tremendous depth, ” VanDerveer said. “We have good 
versatility and flexibility. It’ll make us better, especially on back-to-backs. ”
Shokoor, an all-CCAA and all-West Region selection last season, 
almost had a double-double with a game-high 19 points, to which she 
added nine boards. MacLeod added eight points and 10 boards, which 
both Katuna and Mounier scored in double figures with 15 and 11 points, 
respectively. 
Game Two
UCSD was back at it on Tuesday night at the Toro Drome to take on 
Cal State Dominguez Hills. The Tritons could not shake off a horrendous 
shooting performance and lost 69–45.
The Tritons suffered another slow start in this game, trailing 7–3 right 
out of the gate. However, UCSD did not wait to respond and finished the 
first quarter up by two points, 13–11. 
The second quarter went back and forth. Cal State Dominguez Hills 
took back the lead before UCSD tied the game up at 20 
See W. BASKETBALL , page 11
The UCSD men’s basketball team 
entered its exhibition game against 
UC Irvine, fresh off being voted 
to finish third in the California 
Collegiate Athletic Association 
Preseason Coaches Poll. The Tritons 
failed to produce, dropping the 
match to the Division-I Anteaters, 
but the team quickly turned things 
around, winning its conference, 
regular-season opener against 
Winona State on Tuesday night. The 
Tritons are now 1–0 in the CCAA to 
start the season, with Winona State 
dropping to 1–1.
Game One
The Tritons got off on the 
wrong foot on Friday night in 
their exhibition against UC Irvine, 
allowing the Anteaters to go up 
9–0 within the first two minutes. 
Unfortunately the Tritons did 
nothing in the first half to turn 
things around, as they fell behind 
by as many as 23 points, with the 
team shooting only 32.8 percent (9–28) from the field compared to 
the Anteaters’ 58.3 percent (14–24). 
The half was not without its 
bright spots, though. Junior guard 
Aleks Lipovic hit four out of five 
shots, with three from beyond the 
arc off of nine minutes of play.
The team improved offensively in 
the second half, but it proved to be 
fruitless. Bringing the game within 
13 points multiple times, the Tritons 
were unable to take the next step and 
bring the difference to single digits. The Tritons could not slow the 
Anteaters’ offense, allowing them 
to shoot 65.4 percent, compared 
to the Tritons’ improved shooting 
percentage of 44.1 percent. Despite 
the defensive showing, the Tritons’ 
improved offense allowed them to 
score almost twice as many points 
than in the first half, moving their 
scoring output from 26 to 47. UCSD 
ultimately lost the game 89–73.
“We were a little bit shaky to MEN'S BASKETBALL
Tritons Start Season With Win and Loss
UCSD drops game against D-I foe Irvine, trumps Winona State in CCAA matchup.
BY   A l e x  W u
Contributing Writer
The UCSD men’s and women’s 
rowing programs rounded out their 
short fall season at the San Diego 
Fall Classic at Mission Bay this past 
weekend.
The men’s open 8+ came away 
with fourth place with a time of 
15:05 in a tight race against tough 
Division-I rivals. University of San 
Diego won the race with a time of 
14:54, followed by UC Santa Barbara 
in 15:04 and Santa Clara University 
in 15:05.
“We performed really well, ” 
UCSD men’s rowing Head Coach 
Zach Johnson told the UCSD 
Athletics Department. “USD is 
always fast this time of year, and 
Santa Clara and UCSB are teams we 
fully expect to be contenders in the 
spring. It was a fantastic result. ”
The Triton women’s “ A ” and “B” 
boats posted seventh- and ninth-
place finishes, respectively, in the 
women’s open 8+ race. The “ A ” crew 
posted a time of 17:27, while the “B” 
crew posted 17:53. USD dominated 
the race once again, with its “ A ” crew crossing the line in 16:01. The 
Toreros’ “B” and “C” contingents 
snagged third- and fourth-place 
finishes, respectively, to round out a 
strong day of racing.
In the women’s open 4+ race, 
UCSD’s “ A ” crew took seventh in 
20:35. The “C” boat followed close 
behind in eighth, posting a time of 
20:37. The “B” crew initially finished 
in the eighth position with a time of 
20:36, but after a collision penalty 
was assessed, dropped to 12th place 
with a final time of 21:36. USD once 
again established its dominance over 
the field, taking the top five spots with 
times of 17:52, 18:38, 18:41, 18:53 and 
19:17.
“We showed some depth and 
strength in both races, ” women’s 
rowing Head Coach Colin Truex said. 
“It was a good way to end our very 
short fall season. We have a lot to feel 
good about and a lot to work on, too. ”
The rowing programs will hit the 
water again in the spring to begin 
their official season — the Tritons’ 
official schedule can be viewed at 
ucsdtritons.com.
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE/ GUARDIANSee M. BASKETBALL , page 11ROWING
UCSD Closes Fall Racing
Tritons race against top Division-I boats at Fall Classic.
BY   K a t i e  P o t t s
Editorial Assistant
readers can contact
Ka tie  Potts   kpotts@ucsd.edu Swim and Dive
W. Volleyball
M. Water Polo
Fencing
W. Basketball  11/19
  11/19
  11/20
  11/21
  11/21AT A3 Performance Invite
AT CCAA Championships
AT WWPA Championships
AT IFCSC Duals
AT Western WashingtonUPCOMING
UCSD
GAMES