VOLUME 48, ISSUE 35  MONDAY , FEBRUARY 23, 2015 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
TAKING EFFORT 
OUT OF TAKEOUT
FOR THOSE DAYS WHEN 
YOU’RE CRAVING YOUR 
FAVORITE RESTAURANT BUT 
DON’T FEEL LIKE LEAVING 
YOUR ROOM, TAKE A LOOK AT 
THE NEWEST FOOD DELIVERY 
SERVICES HITTING SAN DIEGO
THE  BUZZ  ON  THE  PREZ
SPOTLESS WEEKENDObama's  social  media  genius
wins  clinch  pla yoffs  SpotsOpinion,  P age   4
Sports,  P age  12
MONDAY
H 64 L 51TUESDAY
H 69 L 51
WEDNESDAY
H 67 L 52THURSDAY
H 67 L 54
FORECAST
VERBATIM
IT’S 
EXTREMELY 
DIFFICULT 
TO VENTURE 
THROUGH 
THIS AREA 
WITHOUT 
HAVING YOUR ARMS STUFFED 
WITH FLYERS, WHICH 
INEVITABLY END UP IN THE 
RECYCLING BIN...”
HOW-TO GURU
OPINION , PAGE 4
INSIDE
LIGHTS AND SIRENS  ....... 3
QUICK TAKES  .................. 4
SASE CONFERENCE  ........ 7
CROSSWORD  ................ 10
SWIM  ............................ 12“Fea tures,  P AGE  6
PHOTO COURTESY OF SPOONROCKETAROUND CAMPUS
Napolitano Delays
Tuition Increase
UC President Janet Napolitano announced 
that the proposed 5-percent UC tuition 
increase will not be implemented for 
summer sessions courses taken this year in 
a lecture given at the University of Southern 
California on Feb. 18. 
UC Office of the President Assistant Director 
of Media Relations Dianne Klein confirmed that 
the enactment of tuition hikes is dependent on 
the level of state funding the UC system receives, 
which has yet to be determined.
“ As we are still in negotiations with the        
governor and the state legislature over UC’s state 
budget, suspending the tuition increase for   sum -
mer session was as the president said — a show 
of good faith, ” Klein told the UCSD Guardian. 
“The tuition increase of up to 5 percent annu -
ally for five years has always been contingent on           
state support. ”
Napolitano was present at USC as the guest 
speaker for the school’s 37th annual Pullias lec -ture and addressed the topics of higher education 
and innovation in California during her speech. 
After announcing that the tuition hikes would 
not be implemented this summer, Napolitano 
expressed hope that state funding would end 
up delaying tuition increases for an even longer 
period of time.
“We are gratified by the many legislators who 
have expressed support for increased funding 
for [the UC system], ” Napolitano said in the 
lecture. “ And it is my most fervent hope that we 
will be able to reach a funding agreement with  
Sacramento that will be sufficient to forestall 
any in-state tuition increase for at least the next 
academic year as well. ” 
According to Napolitano, a tuition increase 
next year could be avoided entirely if California 
allocated $100 million of its $113 billion budget 
to funding the University of California.
“It is our conviction that all parties engaged 
in these negotiations want tuition to be as low as   B y  KRITI  SARIN    ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITORChancellor 
Announces 
Committee on 
Efficiency ADMINISTRATION
The Standing Committee on 
Service and People-Oriented 
Administrative Culture is 
meant to improve financial 
management on campus.
B Y  Br ynna Bol t
STAFF Writer
The formation of the Standing 
Committee on Service and People-
Oriented Administrative Culture, a 
new standing committee primarily 
meant to assist in the fostering of 
administrative and operational 
efficiency on campus, was announced 
on Feb. 9. The committee will be 
composed of faculty, administrative 
staff, campus leaders and subject-
matter experts. 
UCSD Chancellor Pradeep 
Khosla’s strategic plan is designed to 
implement new ways of establishing 
and retaining UCSD’s status as a 
competitive public research university 
for both students and faculty.
According to the committee’s 
chair Dr. Kit Pogliano, a professor 
in the section of molecular biology, 
SPOC was created with the purpose 
of serving as an advisor to the 
chancellor in achieving Goal 5 of 
the strategic plan, which specifically 
emphasizes the creation of a versatile 
and lasting infrastructure through 
dedication to service, people and 
financial stewardship or the skilled 
management of resources. 
Pogliano further explained that 
one of the broader aims of the 
program will be to make sure that the 
administration supports the teaching 
missions of the campus as streamlined 
and efficiently as possible. 
“I would like to see the committee 
expand our culture of innovation and 
creativity so that individuals who are 
in charge of processes on campus 
have a path forward to make those 
processes better, ” Pogliano told the 
UCSD Guardian. “I would really like 
to see the committee make this place 
easier for staff, faculty and students to 
collaborate across campus to achieve 
administrative efficiency. ”
The new program, along with 
other efforts on campus, including 
those implemented by the new Vice 
Chancellor and Chief Financial 
Officer Pierre Ouillet, is designed 
to work toward the achievement of 
this goal. It intends to do so while 
maintaining financial accountability 
and reasonable management of state- 
and tuition-based funds.
In doing so, SPOC will also be 
responsible for fielding new initiatives 
with the intent of improving various 
processes on campus. 
This will be done in part through 
the implementation of a new crowd-
sourcing tool that will be accessible to 
faculty, staff and student employees 
who are able to log in to the campus’ 
single sign-on. 
Unlike other collaborative 
discussion sites, this crowd-sourcing See TUITION , page 3
TEDxUCSD hosted its Salon Event that featured student speakers Greg Hovarth, Dominique Meyer and Matt Tropsha in Atkinson 
Hall last Friday. Photo by Haocheng Tang / UCSD Guardian.
UC SYSTEM
Nine UC campuses are competing 
against each other in a nationwide 
energy and water reduction 
competition called the Campus 
Conservation Nationals, which runs 
from Feb. 16 to March 8 and involves a 
total of 186 colleges.
The competition will judge 
campuses by comparing their energy 
use in this timeframe to a January 
baseline, with the winners being 
the campuses that show the greatest 
percentage decline in energy use. The 
sponsors of the competition will install 
customized electricity- and water-use 
dashboards in two of the grand prize 
winners’ campus buildings. 
Residence halls are representing all 
of the UC campuses in the competition 
except UC Berkeley, whose contest 
entrant is Mulford Hall. At UCSD, two 
of Muir College’s freshman residence halls are competing against each other 
and other campuses.
UCSD student Annie Paul, who 
is helping to coordinate the contest at 
Muir, is optimistic about her college’s 
prospects in the competition.
“I think if we can keep the spirit up 
throughout the three weeks, we can 
see significant savings, ” Paul told the 
UC Newsroom. “Being on a team and 
representing different residence halls 
will help. ”
Taylor McAdam, the senior 
education associate with the Alliance to 
Save Energy and another co-organizer 
of the contest, told the UC Newsroom 
that the goal is to promote and instill 
conservation habits that students 
will continue to use after the 
competition ends.
“Of course we want [students] 
to conserve energy during the 
competition, ” McAdam said. “But 
Campus Conservation Nationals 
is about creating an awareness of 
conservation behavior and promoting a culture of sustainability. ”
Each campus is using events, 
posters and stickers on light switches 
to encourage students to save energy 
and water. Some campuses are also 
using gift cards and pizza parties to 
entice students to conserve.
During last year’s competition, 
265,000 students from 109 colleges 
participated. In total, the participants 
cut over two million kilowatt-hours of 
electricity and 476,000 gallons of water, 
saving their colleges approximately 
$198,000. Students also prevented 
three million pounds of greenhouse 
gases from entering the Earth’s 
atmosphere.
Lucid Design Group, one of 
the competition’s co-organizers, 
provided a dashboard and website 
to monitor energy use in the                                    
participating buildings.
In addition to the Alliance to Save 
Energy and Lucid Design Group, the UCSD Participates in Conservation Competition
Two Muir College freshman residence halls are representing UCSD in the national contest.uc  s y stem
B Y   Jacky  to
staff writer
See  CONSERVATION , page 2 See COMMITTEE , page 3
National Wildlife Federation and 
the Center for Green Schools at 
the U.S. Green Building Council 
also helped organize this year’s 
competition.
Similarly, the University of 
California announced that it has 
made significant progress with its 
Sustainable Investment Strategy.“The University of California is 
making measurable, solid gains on 
sustainability, not only through our 
investments but on our campuses, 
in our laboratories, at our medical 
centers and elsewhere throughout 
the system, ” UC President Janet 
Napolitano said in a Feb. 19 
press release. “We will continue 
to leverage the tremendous brain 
power and innovation of our public university system to work toward a 
solution to climate change. ”
The UC system will invest at least 
$1 billion over the next five years 
into researching climate change 
solutions. As a result, the White 
House announced last week that will 
heavily involve the UC system in its 
Clean Energy Investment Initiative.
Moreover, last month’s Global 
Universities Index awarded the University of California with its 
top spot. The index, which the 
Asset Owners Disclosure Project 
publishes, ranks 278 leading 
university endowments based on 
their ability to effectively manage 
climate change opportunities.2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 23, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG N EWS
DIGITAL MONKEYS By Jeff Lau
Registration for WINTER Qtr is NOW open!
Register online at 
as.ucsd.edu/saferides
A.S. Safe Rides allows register ed un dergradua te 
studen ts to  get 3  FREE rides per quarter.
Studen ts must register  at lea st 24 hours
prio r to their first ride.  A.S. Safe Rides 
asucsd asucsd
#OMG 
#LIKE US
#FOLLOW US
@ucsdguar dianUCSD ranked 15th on the Peace 
Corps’ 2015 Top Colleges list, 
the fifth time in a row the school 
has ranked in the top 15 and the 
ninth time it has appeared in the 
top 25. This list, on which six UC 
schools reside, ranks educational 
institutions based on the number 
of Peace Corps volunteers coming 
from the institutions. More 
than 3000 schools with alumni 
volunteering in the Peace Corps 
ranked in categories based on size: 
small, medium, large, and graduate 
schools. UCSD’s ranking resides in 
the large category.
“UC San Diego’s commitments 
to public service and civic 
engagement are core strengths 
that have enabled our campus to 
educate generations of individuals 
dedicated to Peace Corps’ mission 
of promoting world peace, ” UCSD 
Chancellor Pradeep K. Khosla said 
in a press release on Feb. 19. Chancellor Announces 
All-Campus CommencementSan Diego Schools Develop 
Joint Health ProgramTritons Help Restore Ross 
Elementary School UCSD Ranked 15th For 
Peace Corps Volunteers
Chancellor Pradeep K. Khosla 
announced on Feb. 19 that a 
new all-campus commencement 
ceremony will take place beginning 
with the graduating class of 2016. 
The new ceremony aims to unite 
undergraduates, graduates, the Rady 
School of Management and the School 
of International Relations and Pacific 
Studies as one graduating student 
body. It will replace the previous All 
Campus Graduation Celebration, 
started in 2008 with a similar goal of 
campus unification. The chancellor 
accepted a recommendation from 
the Campuswide Commencement 
Planning Committee to apply the 
change in 2016, allowing time for 
and finding a speaker. These changes 
to the main ceremony will not 
affect the individual ceremonies of 
each undergraduate college and the 
Graduate Division, which will proceed 
with its own personalized events 
before the final ceremony.The division of global public 
health at the UCSD School of 
Medicine and San Diego State 
University’s School of Social Work 
have launched a joint doctoral 
program in interdisciplinary 
research on substance 
abuse.  
The program will emphasize 
research on the social and health 
consequences of the use and 
abuse of alcohol and drugs, aimed 
at assessing substance-use risk 
and creating intervention and                 
prevention programs.  
Co-director Dr. Steffanie 
Strathdee gave her opinion of 
the program, stating that the 
program came just in time due to 
the growing impact of substance 
use worldwide. Students in the 
program spend their first year at 
SDSU, their second at UCSD and 
their remaining years between both 
schools.One hundred thirty Triton 
volunteers, consisting of current 
students, alumni, staff, their fam -
ily, and others came together to 
help improve and restore Ross 
Elementary School on Feb. 19. 
The San Diego Promise for 
Education hosted the event, with 
the goal of connecting alumni, 
students and community members 
and also increase the success of 
students. 
Rosemary Cruz, the school’s 
principal, voiced the aspirations she 
has for her students, explaining the 
hope she has that the volunteers’ 
efforts would foster a sense of pride 
in her students and influence them 
to become future leaders. 
Volunteers in the San Diego 
Promise for Education will par -
ticipate in more activities, and stu -
dents who are interested can find 
out more information by visiting 
http://alumni.ucsd.edu/sdpromise.BRIEFSCOMPILED BY
SHERMAN ALINE //  DESIGNER
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and 
Thursdays during the academic year by UCSD students 
and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this 
newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, 
without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2014, all 
rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible 
for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The 
views expressed herein do not necessarily represent 
the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of 
California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian 
is funded by advertising. Join the Guardian; get diabetes!
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Audrey Sechrest
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Aleksandra Konstantinovic
Andrew E. Huang  
Taylor Sanderson
Tina Butoiu
Kriti Sarin
Charu Mehra
Cassia Pollock
Brandon Yu
John Story
Teiko Yakobson
Jacqueline Kim
Kyle Somers
Nilu Karimi
Siddharth Atre
Jonathan Gao
Joselynn Ordaz
Elyse Yang
Annie Liu
Rosina Garcia
Laura Chow
Vincent PhamEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
  
Associate News Editor
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Social Media Coordinator
Training and Development
Page Layout
Sherman Aline, Charu Mehra, Allison Kubo
Copy Readers
Andrew Chao, Caroline Lee, Micaela Stone
Editorial Assistants
Shelby Newallis, Jennifer Grundman,  
Karly Nisson, Mario Attie, Marcus Thuillier
UC System Will Have A Significant Role in Obama’s Clean Energy Investment Initiative
▶ CONSERVATION,  from page 1
Jacky To   j6to@ucsd.edu readers can contacttool will present users with specific, 
time-sensitive challenges or concepts 
to be addressed. It will then allow those 
with access to engage in developing 
solutions that are ultimately meant to 
improve the university. 
Pogliano expressed her 
excitement over the introduction of 
the new tool, which emphasizes the 
importance of gathering perspectives 
from the UCSD community.
“What we hope to do is leverage 
the collective expertise of the entire 
campus and their enthusiasm and 
really engage them in the process, ” 
Pogliano said. 
The program will work by 
clustering incoming ideas and 
suggesting potential collaborators 
based on this grouping. The tool 
also possesses a built-in ranking 
system to help identify the most 
useful propositions. 
While she believes that the tool 
has enormous potential to create 
a marked improvement in the 
administrative functions on campus, 
Director of Strategic Initiatives 
Robert Neuhard emphasizes that 
the real work will be done by SPOC. “The standing committee in 
itself is the key aspect that is going 
[to] drive conversations on campus, ” 
Neuhard told the Guardian. “The 
tool is really just an enabler of 
one facet of the conversation. It 
allows [us] to reach out on campus 
and collect input in a way that 
we wouldn’t necessarily be able                 
to do effectively. ”
After SPOC has reviewed 
incoming ideas and helped to 
create the teams of staff, faculty and 
relative campus experts to develop 
the propositions more fully, it will 
help to present potential projects 
to the Chancellor’s Cabinet. From 
there, it will be decided which 
initiatives will move forward.  
Pogliano is hopeful that 
achieving administrative excellence 
will be accelerated through the 
sharing of new ideas. 
“We’ve been really creative as 
a campus in terms of achieving 
administrative [efficiency] during the 
budget cuts that started a few years 
ago, ” Pogliano said. “ A lot of people 
have found things that work for 
them and their department, and we 
will be able to help them take these 
advancements to the whole campus. ” After a trial time of the crowd-
sourcing tool, set to appear in April 
2015, there is a possibility of students 
being brought into the new method 
of sharing thoughts. Possible use 
of the tool in the future includes 
creating increased collaboration 
between students and faculty. 
Meanwhile, Pogliano hopes that 
one of the immediate effects on 
students’ lives will be an increased 
speed and ease with how they 
experience common tasks, such as 
receiving grades. 
SPOC will also be less directly 
involved with reinvesting in the 
UCSD Information Technology 
infrastructure by identifying new 
ways to use technology to improve 
its efficiency, according to Pogliano. 
“We really need to reinvest in 
this infrastructure in a smart way 
that makes us more efficient as an 
institution and provides the services 
that students and other people 
need, ” Pogliano said. “We will try 
to identify opportunities to leverage 
technology. ”possible and as predictable as possi -
ble, ” Napolitano added. “Moreover, 
as a matter of fairness, we want 
potential summer quarter students 
to enroll free from any uncer -
tainty and unpredictability inher -
ent in a fluid and still unresolved                  
budget situation. ” 
Jefferson Kuoch-Seng, a senior 
at UC Merced and the president of 
the UC Student Association, said that 
while the temporary suspension of a 
tuition increase is promising, it does not change the fact that fees are still 
expected to rise in the fall.
“Students are encouraged by this 
gesture, but it is only a first step. While 
this is a sign that meaningful nego -
tiations are continuing, it will have 
an impact on a small segment of the 
student population, ” Kuoch-Seng 
said in a UCSA press release on Feb. 
20. “Unfortunately, tuition increases 
remain scheduled in the fall for incom -
ing [freshmen] and current students. ”
Kuoch-Seng added that students 
should have a more active role in the 
decision-making process because the choices being made will affect them 
more than anyone else.
“We are disappointed that once 
again, students were not engaged 
directly and [were] informed of 
the tuition rollback through the 
media, ” Kuoch-Seng said in the 
press release. “UCSA continues to 
urge the governor and the president 
to invite students to the table and 
stop relegating them to the role of 
observers to their own future. ”N EWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 23, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
 Apply to become a  
Triton Community 
Programming 
Leader (TCPL) for 
Parent & Family 
Programs!  
We’re hiring for the 
2015 -2016 
  Eligibility & Requirements  
- Currently enrolled UC San Diego undergraduate  
- Good academic & judicial standing  
- Minimum of 24 quarter units completed by 
Winter Quarter 2015  
Preferred Skills  
- Excellent communication, public speaking, 
previous experience working in teams, & 
thorough knowledge of UC San Diego   Parent & Family Programs  is 
seeking undergraduate students for its 
student leadership position. Selected 
applicants will assist current and 
prospective parents and family as they 
become part of the Triton Family.   
Triton Community 
Programming Leaders 
(TCPLs) serve a key role in the 
facilitation of ongoing programmatic 
efforts by Parent & Family Programs 
and also serve as a resource.    
 
For more information and a complete application, 
visit http://bit.ly/TCPLs   
Applications due, Friday, Feb. 27th by 4:30pm                                  
Questions? Contact us at (858) 534 -7273 or boka@ucsd.edu  
Compensation & Benefits  
- The TCPL position provides valuable leadership experience 
related to working in teams, public speaking, planning, 
organizing, and managing conflict.  
- Stipend of $600 for the academic year  
APPLY TODAY! Students Were Not Directly Consulted or Informed of  the Change
▶ TUITION,  from page 1
The Chancellor’s Cabinet Will Review Ideas Presented By SPOC
▶ COMMITTEE,  from page 1Kriti  sarin   ksarin@ucsd.edu readers can contact
Br ynna  bol t   bbolt@ucsd.edu readers can contactLike us on Facebook
facebook.com/ucsdguardianLIGHTS & SIRENSLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edu.
Friday, Feb. 13
2:12 p.m.: Welfare Check
A student was told that he was 
dismissed from UCSD, which 
caused him to feel distraught and 
suicidal. Transported To Hospital 
For Evaluation. 
Saturday, Feb. 14
12:52 a.m.: Petty Theft
Report received of a group carrying 
a sign down Muir College Drive. 
Seven citations were issued for 
consumption of alcohol by minors. 
Closed by Adult Citations.
5:23 p.m.: Fire
A small trash can fire was 
extinguished at Holiday Court. 
Information Only.
Sunday, Feb. 15
1:13 a.m.: Disturbance
According to a resident advisor 
report, an adult female at the 
Marshall Residence Halls was 
throwing chairs . Checks OK.
Monday, Feb. 16
12:45 p.m.: Drunk in Public
An adult male was found to be 
publicly intoxicated in the Mesa 
Housing and exhibited disorderly 
conduct. Closed by Adult Arrest.
8:09 a.m.: Medical Aid
Report received of a young adult female vomiting in a semi-
conscious state at Brennan Hall due 
to excessive alcohol.  Transported to 
Hospital.
Tuesday, Feb. 17
12:07 p.m.: Welfare Check
An older adult male found to be 
talking to himself at the Dance 
Studio. Field Interview Conducted.
Wednesday, Feb. 18
3:05 pm: Information
A person was seen sleeping in his 
vehicle multiple times at Lot 113. 
Information Only.
8:50 p.m.: Suicide Attempt
A young adult female intentionally 
swallowed several pills. Transported 
to Hospital.
11:11 p.m.: Suspicious Vehicle
A suspicious vehicle containing 
concentrated cannabis and 
marijuana under 28.5 grams. Closed 
by Adult Citation.
Thursday, Feb. 19
2:18 p.m. to 3:27 p.m.: Citizen 
Contact
An adult male was dumpster diving 
and chased the reporting party. 
Report Taken.
— SIDDHARTH ATRE
Photo Editor4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 23, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CHARU  MEHRA
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Thanks, Obama
With a savvy Buzzfeed video promoting the Affordable Care Act, U.S. President Barack Obama 
has highlighted the prevalence, positive and negative, of  social media in today’s professional world.
Everyone’s experienced it, 
and those seasoned veterans 
among us who have learned 
the ways of campus know to avoid 
it: Library Walk. It’s the place where 
swarms of clubs, causes, organiza -
tions and Greek life assault even the 
most frazzled, stressed-out looking 
student trying to avoid a long trek 
and take a shortcut through the 
campus center. It’s extremely dif -
ficult to venture through this area 
without having your arms stuffed 
with flyers, which inevitably end 
up in the recycling bin five minutes 
later anyway. 
Add to that the unavoidable 
guilty heart you’ll leave with after 
seeing the pictures of starving chil -
dren and hearing about mass blood 
shortages across the country and 
you’ve got a scary combination.  
     With all these things in mind, 
we here at the How-To Guru infor -
mation center have written you a 
handy-dandy guide to surviving 
everyone’s favorite part of campus.
Step One: Make eye contact 
with everyone trying to educate 
you about something or the other. 
Doing so will give them a glimmer 
of hope that maybe you actually 
care and will listen to their spiel for 
a solid three minutes of your life. 
Once they’ve begun to approach 
you with a naive, over-excited 
smile on their face, feel guilty and 
forget that you’re late for that one 
discussion section where the TA 
always takes attendance right at the 
very beginning and stop to hear        
them out.
Step Two: Now that you’re woe -
fully trapped in the clutches of 
an overly enthusiastic freshman 
volunteer, you have to successfully 
extricate yourself from the situation 
as awkwardly and rudely as pos -
sible. The best way to do this is to 
pretend to see a friend, wave wildly 
at the aforementioned imaginary 
human being and rush off with 
a quick “I have a midterm/paper 
due/friend emergency/dying pet/
it’s the zombie apocalypse, sorry I         
can’t donate!”
Step Three: At this point, you’ve 
gotten through one awkward 
encounter, and your next hurdle is 
to navigate through the remaining 
gauntlet of people passing out fliers 
for everything from MCAT classes to 
cat adoptions to drunken “cultural” 
parties. Make sure to leave enough 
room in your backpack for the pile 
of papers that you will be collecting 
for events that you’re likely never 
going to think about or attend. This 
will allow you to immediately reach 
your weekly recycling quota. While 
you’re frantically stuffing your back -
pack to free up your hands for your 
grossly overbrewed cup of Perks 
coffee, crumple your homework for 
that one class where the professor 
actually takes points off for neatness 
and aesthetics. 
Now that you’ve safely made 
it out of Library Walk alive, it’s 
time to reflect upon this journey.
We know your lives are full of 
minor inconveniences, stresses and 
obligations, and Library Walk is 
the perfect place for all of them to 
come together and haunt you for 
the duration of your UCSD career. 
Follow our guide word by word and 
you’ll be just fine!How To 
Survive a
Trek Down
Library Walk
Barack Obama brought hope into the 
equation when he was first elected president 
in 2008. “Y es we can” was the message that 
resonated so greatly all around America, but 
Obama’s genius doesn’t only reside in this one-
liner that was on everybody’s lips for a couple of 
months. He won 2008 because he brought hope 
to the American people, who were on the verge of 
being hit by a financial crisis, and he won 2012 by 
bringing up a whole new generation behind him; 
Obama has mastered the art of social media like 
few political figures before. 
A Buzzfeed video starring Obama as just a 
typical guy fooling around before an interview 
was launched on Feb. 12 and literally made a “buzz. ” Can the most powerful man in the world 
really make a fool of himself in that way? Some 
would argue Putin is the most powerful man in 
the world, but it is safe to say no one could really 
imagine what a Putin-Buzzfeed collaboration 
would look like. Obama did not even do it out 
of pure narcissism, unlike many of the image-
obsessed youth who are consuming these same 
Buzzfeed articles; he was doing it to raise 
awareness for ObamaCare, his flagship healthcare 
legislation. He wanted to promote a government 
initiative in a “cool way. ” His gamble drew many 
criticisms, notably from Fox News anchors Leland 
Vittert and Angela McGlowan, but keep in mind 
that Fox News’ average viewing age is 68 years old. 
See BUZZ,  page 5
“Fresh Off the Boat” offers a fresh take on the 
family sitcom genre by putting Asian-American 
actors in the spotlight, a group whose representation 
in Hollywood has long been sparse. Notably, this is 
the first television show centered around an Asian-
American cast since the widely panned 1994 series                           
All-American Girl.
Interestingly enough, a lot of Fresh Off the Boat’s 
charm overlaps with where All-American Girl fell 
flat. Whereas the latter series featured poor writ -
ing that failed to transcend anything beyond the 
cast’s ethnicity, Fresh Off the Boat’s characters are 
relatable to all audiences, while still stressing the                          
Asian-American viewpoint.
Another 20 years have also given Hollywood 
a bit of clarity in terms of casting. All-American 
Girl offended many by labeling the show’s family as 
Korean-American, even though the cast was Korean, 
Chinese and Japanese, giving the impression that 
all Asians are the same. Fresh Off the Boat is better 
in this regard, having a Taiwanese family portrayed 
mostly by actors of Taiwanese and Chinese descent, 
with only one character of Korean descent.
Additionally,  two out of the five episodes that have 
been aired were written by Asian Americans and the 
series is produced by Eddie Huang, who wrote the 
memoir that inspired the show. In contrast, no Asian 
Americans were involved behind the scenes of All-
American Girl.
Fresh Off the Boat isn’t perfect, but it shows how 
far Hollywood has come in just twenty years. If the 
trend continues, in a few decades people will look 
back and realize that this series changed the game for 
Asian-American representation in the arts. 
— JORDAN UTLEY-THOMSON
Staff WriterNothing says middle-class America like a cow -
boy steakhouse, at least, that’s what the Huangs 
believe on ABC’s new show “Fresh Off the Boat. ” 
The title implies that the Huangs have just shipped 
in to the United States when they actually moved 
from Washington D.C. to Florida. According to a 
U.S Census Bureau report from 2010, Asians rep -
resented at least 4.2 percent of the U.S. This show 
is a rare effort to appease a minority demographic 
while adhering to dominant cultural expectations. 
It seems edgy and racially inclusive but actually 
promotes the assimilation of minority groups to 
white culture.
Audiences are presented with Louis Huang, the 
traditional All-American dad with neatly gelled 
hair and polo T-shirts despite his Asian heritage. 
His son Eddie embraces aspects of black culture 
such as hip hop, which he claims showcases his 
status as an outsider. The act of an Asian individ -
ual engaging in so-called black behavior is played 
for laughs, which preserves white prejudices about 
the inferiority of black culture.
Melvin Mar, an executive producer of the 
show, said, “We want to be the Chinese Steve 
Levitan!” This demonstrates that “Fresh Off the 
Boat” aspires to the success of white- dominated 
programs like “Modern Family” (which Levitan 
created). By trying to keep up with these shows, it’s 
possible that “Fresh Off the Boat” will mimic the 
standard formula for a white sitcom family despite 
appearing to present Asian perspectives. While the 
inclusion of Asian-Americans in the sitcom com -
munity is admirable, the program fails to represent 
any tangible shift in dominant mindsets. 
— CASSIA POLLOCK
Associate Opinion EditorTurn on the TV these days and you’ll most 
likely see yet another white person in the lead 
role of a show. ABC’s new comedy “Fresh Off the 
Boat” attempts to change this, but ends up showing 
viewers a stereotypical picture of Asian Americans. 
Based on celebrity chef Eddie Huang’s memoir, the 
show diminishes the diversity and culture of Asian 
Americans, starting with the title. In a CNN news 
article, Boston College history professor Arissa 
Oh notes that the term ‘FOB’ is dangerous and 
derogatory. “It aligns with Asian Americans always 
having to negotiate the fear of being perceived as 
a perpetual foreigner — because the consequences 
can be anything from bullying and ostracism, to 
violence or internment, ” she says.
At a press conference with TV critics in January 
2015, Huang admitted that ABC “toned down” 
the reality of Huang’s experiences because the 
producers felt that the average viewer would not 
understand the nitty-gritty of what he truly expe -
rienced and felt. Sugarcoating the truth will only 
make viewers more inclined to perpetuate those 
stereotypes.  Huang even admitted that the charac -
ters meant to depict his parents are “neutered and 
exoticized. ” That sounds a little too much like how 
Asian Americans are depicted in other media.
In an essay for the New Y ork Magazine, Huang 
argued that “the network’s approach to pacifying 
[the public] is to say [Asian Americans] are all the 
same. ” Lumping together a large minority group is 
not the answer to diversifying television. It is sur -
prising that there are even shows today portraying 
minority groups. Ultimately, though, Fresh Off the 
Boat is far from fresh. 
 
— ROSINA GARCIA
Copy EditorFresh Off  the Boat Skillfully Portrays
the Asian Perspective in AmericaShow Implies That Minorities Should 
Assimilate to Dominant CultureNew Sitcom Perpetuates Worn-Out
Asian-American Stereotypes
QUICK TAKESABC’S LATEST SITCOM“FRESH OFF THE BOAT” HAS BEEN TOUTED AS A MORE ACCURATE REPRESENTATION OF 
ASIAN-AMERICAN CULTURE IN THE MEDIA, BUT HAS ALSO GARNERED CRITICISM FOR ITS USE OF STEREOTYPES.How-to Guru
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
ILLUSTRATION BY ELYSE YANGBY MARCUS THUILLIER  STAFF WRITER The UCSD Guardian is published twice weekly at the 
University of California at San Diego. Contents © 2014. 
Views expressed herein represent those of the opinion sec -
tion writers and are not necessarily those of the UC Board of 
Regents, the ASUCSD or the full Guardian staff. OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 23, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
The mission of the Triton Food Pantry is to 
provide a discreet service to UCSD students in need of food. Our goals are to ensure that every student has enough energy to get through the day and that no student needs to give up a single meal for any reason. We aim to build a network of resources and awareness about food insecurity.
Winter Quarter 
Hours of Operation:
M: 11:00a - 2:00p
Tu: 4:00p - 7:00pW: 2:00p - 6:00pTh: 9:30a - 1:30p F: 1:30p - 6:00p 
Decide if the  USC  School
of Social Work is right
for you.
Join us, before the application deadline, 
this spring in Rancho Bernardo.
Financing Your Future  
Wednesday, February 185:30pm-7:30pm
Curriculum Info Session
Wednesday, March 116:30pm-8:30pm
RSVP to sdac@usc.edu
/eight.LP/seven.LP/seven.LP/hyphen.cap/three.LP/three.LP/eight.LP/hyphen.cap/zero.LP/one.LP/five.LP/four.LP
www.usc.edu/socialworkBig T obacco Stands T o Lose a Lot If  E-Cigarettes Stay PopularGOT ISSUES?
BE HEARD
BY YOUR PEERS!SEND YOUR 
LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Senior citizens are not exactly 
the demographic most involved 
with social media. 
A true president of the 
new millennium, Obama has 
continually used social media 
to boost his career. Only the 
old grumpy cats with white hair 
who still reside in the American 
political landscape find a way 
to criticize his approach. His 
success is sort of an anomaly. 
Past presidents cannot pride 
themselves with such a track 
record, especially with youths, 
and social media has a tendency 
of bringing fire to political 
careers and lives in general. 
Take the example of Justine 
Sacco — ex-senior director of 
corporate communications at InterActiveCorp — who got 
fired from her job, mocked on 
the Twittersphere and dragged 
in dirt for one very misguided 
tweet. The social media world 
can be brutal, and one misstep 
can ruin something someone 
spent years to build.
Buzzfeed got over 18 million 
hits the day of the Obama video 
release, representing a unique 
spike on a website that gets 
almost 200 million hits per 
month, according to Quantcast, 
which provides traffic and 
statistical information about 
various websites. Buzzfeed is 
also among the top 10 most 
visited websites every month 
in the United States and is first 
among websites looked up “on a 
mobile web browser. ” Needless to 
say, Obama knows how to get to the voters, especially the young 
ones who feed off of information 
that comes in the form of short 
articles or videos.  
Social media is a treacherous 
form of communication to 
navigate, and Obama has used 
it to his advantage while others 
have failed in terrific fashion. 
However, senior citizens need 
to accept the fact that social 
media drives the new generation. 
Today’s youth is constantly 
exposed to a world full of 
opportunity and risk that can 
carry or crush lives. This is just 
how the world of today is. In the 
meantime, we can’t wait to see 
the first official White House 
Vine channel: “Thanks, Obama. ”▶ BUZZ,  from page 4
READERS CAN CONTACT
Marcus  Thuillier  Mthuilli@ucsd.eduWORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 23, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
TEIKO Y AKOBSON
features@ucsdguardian.org
Looking 
around Price Center, it’s 
not hard to want something 
other than Subway or Burger King 
after having both so many times in a year, 
but without a car or the time, it is only with 
great difficulty that a student can find the chance 
to go off campus and eat something that isn’t Tapi -
oca Express. To remedy the struggle, multiple business -
es have formed to jump to the aid of distressed college 
students and bring them good and refreshing new foods.
Wesley Hsu, a 2011 UCSD alumnus, has always been a 
foodie and understands the challenges that come with getting 
food off campus. In his desire for people to be able to get the food 
they want, when they want, Hsu cofounded Swingby in June 2014.
“For a while, I wanted a service like [Swingby]. There [are] tons of 
restaurants that don’t do delivery, ” Hsu said. “Sometimes, you’re just 
craving [food] but you don’t feel like dealing with parking or driving. ”
Swingby is a delivery system that allows customers to text an 
order and have it picked up and speedily delivered to them. It 
covers areas from right around UCSD and the Uptown zone, in -
cluding North Park and University Heights. Out-of-range orders 
are possible with a small extra charge. Promotional codes can be found online to make the cost of delivery cheaper. Though the website 
is fairly simple at the moment, Hsu and his co-workers have plans to expand it.
“Eventually, we’ d like it to be like a portal to the city’s restaurant scene; you could look at menus, you could look at pictures, you can get infor -
mation about the restaurant if you’ d like and then you just pick what you want and we’ll deliver it to you, ” Hsu said.
 Senior Corbin Lewis, a computer science major, discovered Hsu and his ideas on Reddit, and after sharing ideas with each other, 
Lewis decided to join Hsu in opening Swingby as the technical co-founder.
“People in general are interested in technology. They identify as foodies and they really favor having a novel and creative way of 
having their needs met, ” Lewis said. “I was interested because I wanted a thing like [Swingby] to deliver food to me … I didn’t 
know what Vallarta’s was until junior year. That’s a tragedy.“
Through Swingby, Hsu and Lewis not only hope to provide immediate help and convenience to students and San Di -
egans, but also aspire to change the food business.
“[Our] long-term [goal is] to hopefully revolutionize the food-delivery industry, ” Hsu said. “Restaurants don’t 
need to have a delivery staff anymore if we are the city’s food-delivery staff. ”
Swingby is one of many independent businesses dedicated to delivering food quickly and cheaply that have 
sprouted within San Diego. However, one business — SpoonRocket — has decided to take it one step 
further and prepare its own meals to deliver to customers. SpoonRocket was started in spring 2013 
by Steven Hsiao and Anson Tsui, two fraternity brothers from UC Berkeley with visions of 
creating an incredibly fast delivery service. Before SpoonRocket was made an official 
business, Hsiao and Tsui delivered homemade pho made in the kitchen 
of their fraternity house, and after much planning and suc -
cess, they decided to launch SpoonRocket.       DELIVERING MORE 
THAN PIZZA
By Soo Yun Park // Staff Writer
Photos used with permission from 
Swingby and SpoonRocket
See DELIVERY , page 8
Graphics by Allison Kubo and Sherman AlineFEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 23, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
For Revelle College junior Julie Lam and UCSD’s Society of 
Asian Scientists and Engineers, it’s not the glass ceiling, but 
the bamboo ceiling that they’re trying to break. 
The term, first coined by author Jane Hyun in her book “Breaking 
the Bamboo Ceiling,” refers to the cultural and organizational factors 
that hamper Asian Americans’ success in the workplace. One exam -
ple Hyun has given is the tendency Asian professionals have to put 
their heads down and only work instead of spending time building 
the informal rapport with their boss that often influences promotions.
Lam puts it as the lack of Asian professionals in high-ranking 
CEO and managerial positions, but either definition is pertinent to a 
university where in 2014, 45 percent of undergraduates listed their 
ethnicity as Asian.
At this year’s SASE Western Regional Conference, hosted by UCSD 
for the second time, the theme of “Bamboo Ceilings and Concrete Feet” 
put this problem in the spotlight. The conference introduced students to the 
companies that offer their dream jobs, while building professional skills 
and self-assurance.
“The idea behind Concrete Feet is to provide students with the confidence 
in their technical abilities to break this bamboo ceiling,” Lam said in an 
interview with the UCSD Guardian. “We help students develop this confi -
dence through opportunities to learn from professionals who have succeed -
ed and through workshops that will guide them through the process.”
The conference gave students the opportunity to network with repre -
sentatives from eight top technological companies, including Microsoft, 
Hewlett-Packard and Boeing, who all hosted workshops throughout the day. 
Students came prepared in business attire and armed with resumes to meet 
individually with some of these companies, who gave them insight into how 
they’d stack up as candidates. 
These 10 to 15 minute meetings addressed another of Hyun’s main con -
cerns: namely that Asian professionals tend to not sell themselves as well as 
their Caucasian co-workers, simply because it’s not a cultural norm.
“In an organization, you do need to understand how to promote yourself,” 
Hyun said in an interview with NPR. “And I think if you talk to most of the 
Asian individuals who are working in these organizations, most of them are 
uncomfortable with that because they didn’t grow up with … the idea that 
you can actually boast about your accomplishments.”
Resume building and professional networking aside, SASE’s conferences 
are also an opportunity for students to mingle with their peers, with 205 
college students and 40 high school students attending Saturday’s event in Price Center. Their majors span the scientific spectrum — from structural 
and aerospace engineering to biology and cognitive science. 
This year’s attendees benefited from a keynote speech by Dr. Vu 
Pham of Spectrum Knowledge, the author of “Impressive First Impres -
sions: A Guide to the Most Important 30 Seconds (And 30 Years) of 
Your Career.”
Each conference has also featured a “design problem,” where stu -
dents are presented with a creative challenge from a host company. 
This year’s prompt was sponsored by General Electric and asked stu -
dents to find applications of GE Lighting in GE Healthcare. 
The results were about as impressive as one would expect from sci -
ence and engineering students working in groups of 10, and included, 
for one, lights that clean up bacteria when there is no movement de -
tected for a certain amount of time. 
All of the groups were graded based on research, a two-minute pitch 
of their ideas, as well as their creativity and practicality. Two winning 
groups were chosen based on their ideas to visit a local GE site. 
But for Lam and students like her, the benefits of SASE go beyond 
the yearly conferences. The confidence-building and networking they 
learn at SASE helps them succeed both inside the organization and 
outside as they begin their careers.
As the internal vice president of SASE’s UCSD chapter, Lam was 
recognized in SASE’s national magazine and works in conjunction 
with the White House Initiative to introduce high school students to 
college STEM fields.
“The thing that I benefited from the most as part of the officer team 
is that I was able to develop my leadership skills and I was also get -
ting my name out there,” Lam said. “I joined the organization as a shy 
freshman who ended up taking a risk and applying to become an intern 
for the officer team.”
SASE has plenty to do in the time before next year’s conference, 
as the organization strives to fulfill its three core missions: preparing 
Asian-heritage scientists and engineers for success in the global busi -
ness world, celebrating diversity on campuses and in the workplace 
and providing opportunities for members to make contributions to 
their local communities.No   more bamboo   ceilings
By Aleksandra Konstantinovic // Editor in Chief  // Photos used with permission from UCSD SASE
 readers can contact Aleksandra Konstantinovic   EDITOR @UCSDGUARDiaN.ORG8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 23, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEA TURES
Inside Out
The Faces of Mass Incarceration
February 23rd, 10:00am // 
Price Center East 2nd Floor: 
We will be publicly displaying the portraits.
February 26th, 5:00pm // Dolores Huerta - Philip Vera Cruz Room: 
There will be a discussion about mass
incarceration in the United States and ways to organize against the Prison Industrial Complex.Food will be provided.February 23rd & 26thPrice Center East 2nd Floor &
Dolores Huerta - Philip Vera Cruz Room
For more information on this project please contactIn this day and age, mass incarceration has evolved into a phenomenon that affects not only family and 
friends who are currently imprisoned, but also the rest of us that create and maintain society. The United States currently imprisons more people than any other country in the world, a majority of whom are people of color. This Inside Out project seeks to give face to those of us who bear the lasting and horrific outcomes of the modern prison, and to raise awareness of the fact that students, workers, professors, and children are also directly affected by the Prison Industrial Complex. This project hopes to humanize the faces that 
have otherwise been dehumanized by the state and to ignite a collective urgency in organizing against the 
Prison Industrial Complex.
Students Against Mass Incarceration
Email: sami.ucsd@gmail.comFacebook: /StudentsAgainstMassIncarcerationUCSDNadia Lopez (A.S. Campus Wide Senator)Phone: 951-201-7032Email: nal007@ucsd.eduMike Fox, the chief marketing officer of Spoon -
Rocket, who joined in September 2014, described 
how this business came to be.
“The company and the idea for [it] just came 
out of [Hsiao and Tsui’s] insight, which was 
anybody should be able to press a button and 
get food anytime, anywhere, ” Fox said. “The 
motivation was: ‘let’s take all the friction out of 
it and make it as simple and easy as possible to 
get really good food extremely fast. ’”
After nearly two years of great success in 
the city of Berkeley, Hsiao and Tsui decided to 
expand to more cities. SpoonRocket has opened 
new stations in Seattle within the University of 
Washington, as well as right here in San Diego. 
Up in the Bay Area, it would prepare and de -
liver its own food, but down here, SpoonRocket 
has also decided to partner with local restau -
rants to have food delivered to customers.
Every day, there is almost always a new menu for that week, with the options of healthy 
vegetarian salads or something as comforting as 
grilled shrimp sandwiches. Because these meals 
are distributed with the promise of delivery in 
less than 30 minutes, SpoonRocket is perfect to 
call when a fast gourmet meal is needed.
“The nice thing about SpoonRocket, too, is 
the pizza. If you’re a single person or just a stu -
dent, ordering a whole pizza for yourself is not 
always the best thing, ” Fox said. “It’s almost too 
much food. So for us, it’s all single portion[s] so 
you can get just the right amount for you, for 
one meal, and not have leftovers or cold pizza 
sitting in your fridge or [have to] spend more 
on the pizza than you want to. ”
Because of the gourmet meals it delivers with 
utmost speed, SpoonRocket could be the an -
swer for students who don’t want to eat Panda 
Express for the nth time in one year.
“College students have a lot on their plates. 
There’s a lot of studying. They’re not generally 
in their dorms or their apartments cooking themselves gourmet meals, and they get fed up 
with the options that they have on campus, ” Fox 
said. “So we try to price [our service] so that 
any college kid can afford it. With all that add -
ing up, the service is pretty well-engineered for 
college students to take advantage of. ”
With so many new businesses similar to 
Swingby and SpoonRocket appearing, the food 
business will inevitably end up changing, be it 
for the better or not. Eleanor Roosevelt College 
freshman Moonhey Kim is happy with these 
growing types of businesses.
“Food-delivery businesses definitely give stu -
dents a variety of options of delicious foods to 
eat that [are] different from the mundane food 
served at our dining halls, ” Kim said. “Students 
are willing to pay extra just to have satisfying 
food with their pals, so I think food delivery 
options are a great idea that will make many 
students happier. ”Delivery Service Apps Have Off-Campus Food Brought to You in Minutes
readers can contact
Soo Yun P ark  sy p 0 0 8 @ucsd.edu ▶ DELIVERY,  from page 6
Photo used with  persmission from SpoonRocket Photo used with  persmission from SpoonRocketSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 23, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
always been the way I play so hope -
fully I can mix in a long-range shot 
or outside shot, but if it’s there, I’m 
going to take it.” 
The Tritons never trailed in the 
game, leading by nine at halftime 
and widening the margin to 14 half -
way through the second.
Junior guard Hunter Walker 
added 15 points and six rebounds 
while junior forward Drew Dyer and 
freshman guard Grant Jackson both 
scored 10 points apiece.
The Tritons built on their mo -
mentum in Saturday’s 61–44 win 
against Cal State Los Angeles. 
Sophomore guard Aleks Lipovic 
shot lights out from long distance, 
hitting 6–9 from three for a season-
high 22 points. Lipovic had been 
cold in recent games — averaging 
only four points in his last five — making his performance a welcome 
sight for the team as the season 
wraps up.
“I’ve been struggling as of late 
so it felt good to get the first one 
in and then it kept rolling from 
then on,” Lipovic said. “We’re 
doing well getting in the paint and 
that was sucking in the defense 
and I was lucky to get some shots 
up early.”
Klie continued his double-digit 
scoring streak with 13 points and 
five rebounds. Walker also finished 
in the double digits with 10 points 
and four rebounds. 
Although UCSD is guaranteed 
a spot in the playoffs, the team can 
land anywhere from the third seed 
to the sixth by the end of next week. 
With only two games remaining in 
conference play, the coaches and 
players recognize that the team must 
continue playing at a high level. “That was one of our definite 
goals coming into the year, finish -
ing in the top six,” Klie said. “It’s 
great to be there, but we still have 
work to do tomorrow night and 
next weekend. We’re not think -
ing too far ahead right now. We’ll 
cross that bridge when it comes but 
definitely excited and definitely 
fun to be a part of.”
The Tritons wrap up their 
regular season next week as they 
go back on the road for two pivotal 
games. On Friday, UCSD looks to 
avenge a previous loss and break 
its conference tie with Humboldt 
State (13–7), which has gone 7–1 
since their last meeting. The Tritons 
will then travel to Cal State San 
Bernardino (12–8) to take on the 
Coyotes in their season finale. The real star of the night was 
Tanita, who helped break Cal State 
Dominguez Hill’s defense with her 
nine assists. UCSD overall held 
Dominguez Hills to just 33 percent 
shooting from the floor, and the team’s 
chemistry was on display in its 16–4 
assist advantage.
“Taylor has worked very hard to 
earn more playing [time],” UCSD 
head coach Heidi VanDerveer said. 
“I have coached a lot of people and 
she probably has one of the highest 
basketball IQs of anybody I have ever 
coached.”
On Saturday, the Tritons went right 
back to work and defeated Cal State 
Los Angeles 69–57 on Senior Night.
UCSD traded baskets with Los 
Angeles in the opening minutes of 
the game and went up 8–7 after five 
minutes of play. The Tritons then went 
on a 8–2 run and would not look back 
for the remainder of the game. The 
lead went up to 12 at halftime, when 
the Tritons gained a 37–25 advantage 
over the Golden Eagles.
After halftime, UCSD went on a 
9–2 run and took a 19-point lead over 
Los Angeles at 50–31. The Golden 
Eagles could never bring the deficit 
down to single digits for the rest of 
the game. 
On Senior Night, five seniors — 
guard Nadja Kern, guard Stephanie 
Yano, guard Miranda Seto, Webster 
and Bertsch — and junior center Emily Morris were recognized and 
honored before the game. With the 
winning weekend, they concluded 
their final RIMAC Arena collegiate 
games on a high note.
UCSD’s front line dominated the 
game, with Bertsch, Shokoor and 
Webster combining for 32 points and 
28 rebounds. Bertsch grabbed her 
first double-double of the season (14 
points and 10 boards), and UCSD 
outrebounded Los Angeles by an 
astonishing 61 to 34. However, UCSD 
also committed 24 turnovers and will 
need to clean things up if it wishes to 
go far in the CCAA tournament.
“We had a great senior apprecia -
tion night,” VanDerveer said. “We had 
six seniors and they wanted to go out 
and play hard, but in the first half we 
were trying too hard and then maybe 
we ran out of a little energy. We didn’t 
have great energy in the second half 
but I am happy we got the win.”
Before looking toward the post -
season, UCSD still has two CCAA 
games coming up next weekend. The 
Tritons will be on the road to face 
Humboldt State (18–2) on Thursday, 
Feb. 26 and Cal State San Bernardino 
(14–6) on Saturday, Feb. 28, with both 
games tipping off at 5:30 p.m. Both 
opponents are qualified for the CCAA 
tournament and will provide UCSD 
with two quality games to prepare for 
the upcoming tournament. 
automatic NCAA qualifier. 
“It came down to who wanted 
it most, ” Pourvahidi told the UCSD 
Athletics Department. “I kept telling 
myself that every second counts, and 
every stroke counts. I wanted to make 
sure I gave it everything so there were 
no regrets. ”
The evening also saw the women’s 
200-relay team take first place: sopho -
mores Austine Lee and Tang, junior 
Colleen Daley and freshman Angie 
Phetbenjakul went 1:32.69, narrowly 
missing out on a school record and an 
NCAA automatic qualifier.
On Friday, the Tritons added seven 
more first places to gain a healthy 
overall point lead. The highlights of 
the day came through clean sweeps 
of both the 400-yard medley and the 200-freestyle. In the 400, Li took the 
men’s crown with a time of 3:55.89 
and Huttner topped the women’s field 
at 4:24.01. Top honors in the 200 went 
to Watkins (1:51.03) for the women 
and Cohn (1:39.70) for the men.
On Saturday, Sin and fellow 
freshman Julia Toronczak won their 
final races, with Toronczak taking the 
200-backstroke and Sin the 1,650-
yard freestyle. Sin’s time of 16:55.65 
set a new school record, taking over 
from the record which had stood 
since 2006. 
“Coming into this year, the 1,650 
freestyle was a newer event for Stepha -
nie, but she’s really developed over the 
past six months and dropped nearly 
30 seconds, ” Falcon said. 
The seventh consecutive title mark 
continues a streak of dominance for 
the Tritons’ swimming program. “We knew coming in that this year 
would be a little tougher, with several 
new teams with depth and top-end 
talent re-joining the conference, ” Fal -
con said. “It was definitely rewarding 
to see that we still have both the depth 
and top-end talent to hold off the 
tougher competition. ”
With the conference championship 
successfully behind them, the Triton 
teams now look toward the ultimate 
destination at the national level. The 
UCSD now awaits the announcement 
of the official qualifier list for the 2015 
NCAA Division II Swimming & Div -
ing Championships held next month 
in Indianapolis. The meet will run 
from Wednesday, March 11 through 
Saturday, March 14. No. 4 Women, No. 5 Men Will Prepare for NCAAs Come March Tritons Will Play to Determine Postseason Seed    
UCSD Peaks at Right Time and Prepares for CCAA Playoffs   ▶ SWIM , from page 12 ▶ W. BASKETBALL , from page 12
▶ M. BASKETBALL,  from page 12readers can contact
  liam  leahy     lleahy@ucsd.edu 
readers can contact
  marcus thuillier     mthuilli@ucsd.edu 
readers can contact
  Daniel sung     d2sung@ucsd.edu Follow us on Twitter
@UCSD_Sports
10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 23, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
CLASSIFIEDS$
Guar dian Classi/f_ieds ar e FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifieds
crossword
ACROSS
1 Paul of “American Graffiti”
6 Big Apple sch.
10 One often looking down?
14 Part of Caesar’s boast
15 Former manager Felipe
16 Bishop of Rome
17 Exterior attractiveness, to a Realtor
19 Wilson of “Wedding Crashers”
20 Beethoven’s affliction
22 Hunk
24 Drei minus zwei
25 Flummoxed
26 Embraces, as a philosophy
28 Site for saplings
30 Old Italian bread
31 Lined up
33 What chambers of commerce do, and 
this puzzle’s title
38 Like a banquet
39 Slightly
41 Thorny shrubs commonly with yellow 
flowers
44 Livestock food
46 Billiards bounce
47 James of “The Godfather”
49 Bar code?
50 Drug safety test
54 General Bradley
55 Replay feature
58 Soap actress Sofer
59 Isle where Macbeth is buried
60 Rope loop
61 Scott in a landmark civil rights case
62 Clairvoyant
63 Kind of pressure that can cause head -
achesDOWN
1 Driver’s document: Abbr.
2 Old French coin
3 Vermont music festival town
4 Early Christian pulpit
5 Afternoon service
6 Menu fowl
7 Staff symbols
8 Wordsmith Webster
9 Christmastime
10 Golf pro shop array
11 Not in any way
12 Feature of some corkscrews
13 Popular analgesic cream
18 Pitchfork-shaped letters
21 Hitter of 755 homers
22 Hoedown dancer
23 Lyrical
27 Three-time Editorial Cartooning 
Pulitzer winner
28 “Parsley is gharsley” poet
29 Ocean State sch.
31 Bird venerated by ancient Egyptians
32 Frat letters
34 “Spider-Man” director
35 New Deal prog.
36 Breeding horse
37 Heroic tale
40 Drops on the grass
41 Agreement
42 More tranquil
43 French satellite-launching rocket
44 Old MacDonald’s place
45 Whopper toppers
47 Duplicate
48 Fighting big-time
51 Members of Gil Grissom’s team, briefly
52 Medicinal plant
53 Yours, in Tours
56 The Buckeyes, initially
57 Super __: game consoleBIKES
1999 Harley-Davidson Touring - $4800. No 
mechanical issues whatsoever. Tons of 
chrome, Stage #1 Kit. Lower fairings are like 
new. Removable backrest and lamb’s wool 
seat cover. Helmets with mics and stereo 
speakers. Original owner, always Harley Dealer 
serviced. Listing ID: 123898164 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
Cruiser Bike Genesis - $120. Good riding bike. 
Listing ID: 123898161 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Electra Ratrod Beach Cruiser - $180. This cruis -
er is in “mint condition” all the way around. It’s 
good for the rider from 5’8” to 6’4” . Listing ID: 
123898160 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
ELECTRONICS
PS2 and Games - $12. PS2 and fourteen games. 
$200 takes all or $12 a game. $30 for the Guitar 
Hero 3 Legends of Rock and PS2 for $80. I have 
both controls. Listing ID: 122581002 at ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more information
Photography Home Course - $15. This is great 
for beginners or intermediate photographers. 
The course focuses on the basics and special skills like creative lighting and special effects. 
The course was for 35mm photography but 
translates to digital as far as learning how to 
take and compose better pictures. Visual and 
audio (cassette tapes). Listing ID: 123898187 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
SanDisk 2GB and 8GB Memory Stick Pro Duo - 
$15. You can buy them separately or together. 
$15 for both combined. Listing ID: 121633565 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
FURNITURE
Accent Chair - $65. Antique chair. Listing ID: 
123080482 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
Leather Horses - $90. Selling pair of leather 
horses. Purchased pair for $190 for decor 
in son’s room. Never been played with, for 
display purposes only. Will not separate. 
Exceptional condition, no damage. 13.5” tall 
for horse on all fours. 17” tall for one on hind 
legs. Listing ID: 122581005 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
Red Sofa - $100. Hello, we are selling our red 
sofa. It’s very comfortable and it is still in good 
condition. Listing ID: 122310383 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
t
your visio n,
our missio n.
outfitters@ucsd.eduCreate custom a pparel to 
promote your student 
organiza tion with Triton 
Outfitter's new Made TO Order program!
LECTURE
NOTES
IS HIRING
NOTETAKERS
FOR SPRING ‘ 15
(STARTING 6th WEEK!)
Pick up an applicati on at
Lectu re Not es in the
Student Center
Must have 3.0 or bet ter
Applic ation & SAM PLE NO TES
 are du e Wed of fi nals week
as-lecture-notes@ucsd.eduwww.ucsdguardian.org/advertising
.com/ucsdguardian
CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 23, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
THE VAGINA MONOLOGUES
PC EAST BALLROOMFEB 22,23, 25,26 • 7pmTahrirCAMPUS
CALENDAR
FEB 23 - MAR 12015 POWERED BY THE CHANCELLOR’S OFFICE AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guar dian
Calendar
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar @
ucsdgu ardian .orgMON2.23 WED2.25 TUE2.24
1pm
JOINT UCDC-UC CENTER SACRAMENTO INFO 
SESSION - PC WEST, GREEN TABLE RM
What are you doing next year? Come hear about 
internship opportunities in Washington, DC and Sacramento. Open to all majors.
2pm
HUNGRY FOR HEALTHY: OVERNIGHT OATS - THE 
ZONE
Come join us today for Hungry For Healthy! Today, join 
us with our cooking demo of Overnight Oats with 
UCSD's FitLife Registered Dietician! Materials and ingredients are provided. Hungry For Healthy is a free program here at The Zone, but space is limited, so it is first come, first served.
3pm
INTERPERSONAL GAMES - STUDENT 
GOVERNANCE CENTER, 4TH FLOOR PRICE 
CENTER
The peer educators of the Center for Student 
Involvement- Communications and Leadership are going to host this "Interpersonal Games" event to help 
you sharpen your interpersonal skills!11am
ART AND SOUL: DIY TOTE BAG - THE ZONE
Think you can only get a trendy tote bag at Urban 
Outfitters? Think again. Join the Zone to paint your very own canvas tote bag for free! All supplies and materials are provided.
11am
OUTBACK ADVENTURES- CHALLENGE COURSE 
OPEN HOUSE
Experience the excitement of our zip line at our new 
home in the eucalyptus forest. Please wear closed toed shoes if you plan to participate (first come, first served).  Absolutely FREE!
12pm
ACTIVISM, POLICING AND BLACK LIVES 
MATTER - SEUSS ROOM, GEISEL LIBRARY
Join us for a conversation with four faculty 
members: Zeinabu Davis (UCSD Communication), 
Dayo Gore (UCSD Ethnic Studies), Cesar Rodriguez 
(CSUSM Sociology) and Daniel Widener (UCSD 
History). This panel discussion offers avenues of exploration and information that might help to galvanize the outrage of recent protests into a sustained movement. 
7pm
“UNDERSTANDING AND ENGAGING HUMAN 
IMAGINATION”, A PUBLIC LECTURE - INTERNATIONAL HOUSE, GREAT HALL
As we change our world at increasing scale and 
pace, how might we engage our human imagination to have more insight into the future that we will soon be a part of? Can humanistic analysis, cultural 
expression, and scientific inquiry come together to 
develop our imaginative capacities? Lecture will be presented by Sheldon Brown.FRI2.27
6pm
OUTREACH VOLLEYBALL MIXER AND GAME: 
UCSD VS. UCSB - RIMAC SKY BOX
Continue showing your school pride after Spirit Week! 
Join the Outreach Coordinators for a fun night of sports, delicious food, and new friends while watching the 
UCSD vs. UCSB men's volleyball game! Learn the rules 
of the game from UCSD's own Women's Volleyball Coach! Free food will be provided!
7:30pm
THE MARRIAGE OF BETTE AND BOO - 
GAILBRAITH HALL, ARTHUR WAGNER THEATER
Come see the The Marriage of Bette and Boo, 
presented by The UCSD Department of Theatre and 
Dance and directed by Kim Walsh! 11am
FITNESS ZONE: ANIMAL FLOW - THE ZONE
Continuous body weight movements to improve 
strength, stamina, mobility, and agility. This animal instinct workout is a new and fun way to bring out your playful side while improving your body's 
function! 
4pm
PERSONAL FINANCES FOR COLLEGE STUDENTS - 
CROSS CULTURAL CENTER COMMUNIDAD
This workshop provides the tools and information 
young adults need to begin their financial life on the right foot. Participants will learn how to obtain and use credit wisely, create a positive credit history and 
score, develop a budget, track spending, know their 
student loan repayment options, and save effectively 
for the most common upcoming expenses.
SAT2.28
9:30am
AB CARE & REPAIR 3V3 BASKETBALL 
TOURNAMENT FUNDRAISER - REVELLE COLLEGE, KEELING COURTS
AB Care and Repair is hosting a 3v3 
single-elimination CO-ED basketball tournament on Saturday, February 28th!6pm
APSA’S 20TH ANNUAL BENEFIT TALENT SHOW - 
PRICE CENTER WEST BALLROOM
The purpose of the talent show is to showcase and support 
the richness and breadth of talent in the Asian and 
Pacific-Islander American community, who are often 
underrepresented in mainstream media. Our theme this year is "Remembering Our Roots" because we want to empower people to stay connected to their passions, chase their dreams, and enact positive change in our world.THU2.26
5pm
MORE THAN A MENTOR: RETHINKING GROWTH 
AND GUIDANCE - CROSS-CULTURAL CENTER, COMUNIDAD
Join us for a talk about the importance of mentorship 
and its connection to creating community and retention 
in the university. We will also complicate mentorship by reflecting on our experiences, debunking myths about being a mentor, and looking at different models that avoid promoting hierarchies of oppression. 
7pm
THE VAGINA MONOLOGUES AT UCSD - PC EAST 
BALLROOM  (2.22, 2.23, 2.25, 2.26)
The Vagina Monologues at UCSD are donating all 
proceeds of the show to the San Diego Center for Community Solutions, a San Diego non-profit and the only 24 hour rape crisis center in all of San Diego 
County, and to License to Freedom - an organization 
dedicated to stopping domestic violence in refugee and immigrant communities in San Diego County.
THE ANTAR MARTIN 
AGGREGATION
W/ AMADOU FALL  
Thursday, Feb. 26  
Doors: 7:30pm • Show: 8pm
The Loft • FREE
ASCE PRESENTS:
DUMBFOUNDEAD  
Friday, Feb. 27 
Doors: 8pm • Show: 8:30pm
The Loft • FREE for UCSD 
Students; $10 GeneralUpcoming at
Upcoming attheloft.ucsd.edu
universitycenters.ucsd.eduROUND TABLE
FRIDAYSROUND TABLE
FRIDAYSRound Table Fridays: 
JOSEPH MARTIN
& JULIAN MEDRI
Friday, Feb. 27  
Round Table Plaza • FREEADAM RUDOLPH - GO  
ORGANIC ORCHESTRA W/ THE 
KIRK KNUFFKE TRIO
Wednesday, Feb. 25  
Doors: 7:30pm • Event: 8pm
The Loft • FREEART AND SOUL:
DECORATE YOUR OWN MASON JAR
Monday, Feb. 23  
Event: 6pm
The Loft • FREE
THE KEI AKAGI TRIO  
W/ THE KYLE MOTL TRIO
Saturday, Feb. 28  
Doors: 7:30pm • Show: 8pm
The Loft • FREE for UCSD 
Students; $10 General
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
BRANDON  YU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 23, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
In its final two home games of the season, the UCSD men’s basketball team (13–7) 
extended its win streak to three, coasting by Cal State Dominguez Hills (2–18) 72–58 
on Friday night and defeating Cal State Los Angeles (7–13) 61–44 on Saturday’s 
Senior Night. With the weekend sweep, the Tritons officially clinched a California 
Collegiate Athletics Association tournament berth. 
Despite shooting 3–22 from beyond the arc on Friday night, the Tritons were 
finally able to find some offensive footing. The team shot 44 percent from the field, 
after only averaging 37 percent in the three previous games.
Again, UCSD’s activity on the defensive end made it difficult for the Toros to 
surmount any type of offensive run. The Tritons forced 16 Dominguez Hills turnovers 
and were able to score 19 points off of those takeaways.
“I think the defensive end of the floor really did a good job of limiting their 
opportunities, especially in the first half,” UCSD head coach Eric Olen told the 
UCSD Athletics Department. “[It] allowed us to create some separation when we 
did miss shots.”
UCSD also outscored Dominguez Hills in the paint 30–18, largely thanks to 
sophomore guard Adam Klie’s play. Klie finished with a season-high 20 points on 72 
percent from the field and also corralled six rebounds. 
After starting the first half of the season in what looked like a sophomore slump, 
Klie could not have found his offensive groove at a more perfect time as play shifts 
into the postseason. In the last eight games, Klie has averaged 15.3 points and 6.6 
rebounds compared to 10.4 points and 4.3 rebounds earlier on. Klie credits his recent 
offensive surge to his propensity to drive to the basket. 
“Whoever is guarding me, I always feel like I can get to the rim,” Klie said. “It’s In the final homestand of the season, the UCSD women’s basketball team defeated both 
Cal State Dominguez Hills (17–3) and Cal State Los Angeles (8–12) to secure a guaranteed 
spot in this year’s postseason. The Tritons’ big Friday night win over Dominguez Hills of -
ficially clinched the playoff berth, while Saturday night’s 69–57 victory extended their win 
streak to five. 
UCSD now stands at 16–9 overall and 14–6 in the California Collegiate Athletic As -
sociation and is tied for the fourth spot in the conference. 
The Tritons swept the season series over the number two ranked team in the conference 
with Friday’s 68–60 win. 
The two squads were off to a slow start but UCSD picked things up to get an early 14–9 
lead after 10 minutes of play. The Tritons had their frontline combine for 33 points and also 
shot 5–10 from downtown in the first half. The lead stayed around five for a while, but a 
late surge pushed UCSD to a 33–25 advantage at halftime.
After the break, UCSD continued to push and the lead went up to 12. Junior forward 
Farrah Shokoor had one of the best plays of the night when she stole the ball and scored a 
lay-up with the foul in transition with 12 minutes remaining in the game. 
Despite a minor Toros attempt at a comeback, the lead would not dip under eight as the 
Tritons controlled the end of the game to cruise to a victory. 
“We may not have the fastest, tallest, strongest players, but as a team, we compete very 
well,” redshirt freshman guard Taylor Tanita said.
 Shokoor dominated the game on the defensive end, compiling 18 boards, two blocks 
and one steal, along with 11 points for another double-double on the season. Sophomore 
guard Hayley Anderson had 11 points as well, while senior forward McKennan Bertsch and 
senior center Dana Webster also scored in double figures. 
SWIM/DIVE
Seventh Consecutive Title
Tritons break records en route to taking PCSC crown. 
The UCSD men’s and women’s 
swim teams each achieved huge suc -
cesses on Saturday night. Both topped 
their fields at the end of a four-day 
meet to win their seventh straight 
Pacific College Swimming & Diving 
Conference Championships league 
title at the Splash! La Mirada Regional 
Aquatics Centre. The No. 4 nationally 
ranked women swept their 12-team 
field with 1,453 points and the No. 5 
men took first prize ahead of six other 
teams with 1,490 points.
“It is always satisfying to win a 
conference championship, and being 
able to get our seventh in a row in 
both the men’s and women’s division is 
particularly gratifying, ” women’s head coach Corrie Falcon said. 
Over the four days of competition, 
UCSD compiled 20 race wins, three 
NCAA automatic qualifying swims, 
four school records and at least five 
meet marks. Triton freshman Stepha -
nie Sin and sophomore Chandler 
Pourvahidi each won Swimmer of the 
Meet Honors as they both compiled 
92 points from two wins and a second-
place finish from their three individual 
final races.
Pourvahidi and Sin started the 
competition setting meet records on 
Wednesday night in their 1,000-yard 
freestyle races. Sin won her race with a 
time of 10 minutes and 7.10 seconds, 
and Pourvahidi took a personal record 
time of 9:11.40. Wednesday’s races 
also saw UCSD take a clean sweep of 
the 800-freestyle relays. The women’s team of sophomores 
Natalie Tang and Catherine Woo and 
juniors Maddy Huttner and Dari Wat -
kins timed a meet-record 7:23.23 to 
achieve an automatic NCAA qualifier, whilst the men’s team of sophomore 
Michael Cohn and juniors Paul Li, 
Howie Chang and Michael Leung took 
first with a 6:38.34 finishing mark.
On Thursday, Pourvahidi doubled his winning honors taking the 500-
yard freestyle with a school record 
time of 4:24.04, which earned him an B Y  liam  leahy
staff writer
See SWIM , page 9See W. BASKETBALL , page 9 See M. BASK ETBALL , page 9UCSD extends winning streak to five games, upsetting CSUDH and 
defeating CSULA to clinch a playoff spot in conference tournament. Triton men win both conference games on Friday and Saturday 
in season’s final home games to secure unlikely postseason berth. 
PHOTO USED WITH PERMISSION FROM UCSD ATHLETICSM. Golf
Baseball
M. Volleyball
W. Tennis
M. Tennis     2/23        
     2/24
     2/25    
     2/26
     2/26AT Coyote Classic
AT Azusa Pacific
VS Holy Names
AT Concordia
VS Sonoma StateUPCOMING
UCSD
GAMES
BY DANIEL SUNG SENIOR STAFF WRITER  
MARCUS THUILLIER EDITORIAL ASSISTANT  
DESIGN BY SHERMAN ALINEPHOTOS BY ALWIN SZETO, HY -
ESOO KIM & CHRISTIAN DUARTE  /
GUARDIAN
AND USED WITH PERMISSION 
FROM UCSD ATHLETICSPLAYOFF  BOUND