VOLUME 48, ISSUE 39  MONDAY, MARCH 9, 2015 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
WIKIPEDIA 
EDIT-A-THON
OUR VISUAL ARTS DEPARTMENT 
CELEBRATES INTERNATIONAL 
WOMEN’S DAY BY HOSTING 
UCSD’S FIRST ART+FEMINISM 
EDIT-A-THON. CHECK OUT 
SOME OF WIKIPEDIA’S NEWEST 
PAGES ON FEMALE ARTISTS.
LA TEST  CA  LEGISLA TION
BASKETBALL  PLA YOFFSOUR QUICKt AKES WEIGH   IN
UCSd  f ails  to  t ake  ccaa  crown OPINION,  P age   4
sports,  P age 12
MONDAY
H 71 L 52TUESDAY
H 75 L 57
WEDNESDAY
H 72 L 55THURSDAY
H 75 L 55
FORECAST
VERBATIM
PB&JS ARE GOING TO BE YOUR 
NEW FAVORITE SANDWICH. ON 
SOME DAYS, THIS MAY EVEN 
SERVE AS BREAKFAST, LUNCH, 
AND DINNER. DON’T BOTHER 
WASTING VALUABLE MONEY 
ON BROCCOLI, ASPARAGUS 
OR OVERPRICED ORGANIC 
VEGETABLES.”
 HOW-TO GURU
OPINION , PAGE 4
INSIDE
FOOD SECURITY .............. 2
TO PROTECT & SERVE .....4
DIVESTMENT FEATURE  ....6
CROSSWORD  ................ 10
NCAA FENCING  ............. 12“FEA TURES,  P AGE  7
PHOTO BY THIBA THIAGARAJAN / GUARDIANCAMPUS
A.S. Council Elections 
Officially Commence
A.S. and college council election campaign -
ing officially kicked off on Thursday, 
March 5 at 8 p.m. during the Mandatory 
Candidates Meeting in the Price Center Forum.
During the meeting, A.S. Elections Manager 
Ryan Huyler presented election guidelines and 
announced the names of all the candidates from 
each college. After the meeting concluded, candi -
dates were officially allowed to begin campaigning.
This year there are three candidates running 
for president, two of whom are running on the 
same slate. Dominick Suvonnasupa, one of the 
two presidential candidates from Tritons United, 
told the UCSD Guardian about their decision to 
run simultaneously.
“We wanted to give the opportunity for the 
students to see both sides of the same coin, ” 
Suvonnasupa said. 
According to Suvonnasupa, Tritons United’s 
platform covers four aspects: spirit, outreach, 
advocating for students and refinement. Regarding his personal campaign strategy, he 
stated that he wants to be a little less political and 
a little more hands-on.
“My focus really is getting the students what 
they need: providing them with real services that 
will make them proud of their degrees, socially 
and career-wise, ” Suvonnasupa stated. 
Joey Giltner is the second candidate from 
Tritons United running for A.S. Council presi -
dent. Giltner told the Guardian that the main goal 
of his campaign is to bring together the student 
population at UCSD. In addition, Giltner would 
like to focus on establishing an A.S. Office of 
Alumni Relations.
“The alumni here at UCSD are not as strong 
as you would see at other UC [school]s, ” Giltner 
said. “If we can get an office in A.S. [Council] 
that deals directly with alumni and bringing them 
back to campus to offer students opportunities, I 
think that would be ideal for this campus. ”
Bryan Dierking, the Tritons United candidate   B y  MARIA  SEBAS    STAFF WRITER
See ELECTIONS , page 3
Assistant Professor of the UCSD 
School of International Relations 
and Pacific Studies Jennifer Burney 
researches the effects of food 
production and consumption, 
as well as the climate’s impact on 
agriculture. 
The goals of her studies coincide 
with those of the University of 
California’s Global Food Initiative 
launched by the UC Office of the 
President  in 2014. 
One of Burney’s recent studies 
has shown that the effects of short-
lived climate pollutants can affect 
agriculture for varying reasons. 
The paper, which was cowritten 
with Scripps climate scientist 
Veerabhadran Ramanathan, was 
published in the Proceedings of the 
National Academy of Sciences in November 2014. 
The study focuses on the science, 
technology and policy of SLCPs and 
the ways in which these can affect 
agricultural sustainability and food 
security goals.
The continued emission of 
pollutants can have both direct and 
indirect damaging effects, Burney 
told the UCSD Guardian.
“The interesting thing about 
some of the SLCPs is that they have 
direct impacts on crop yields beyond 
just through changes in temperature 
and precipitation, ” Burney said. “So 
increasing pollution will not only 
exacerbate warming trends, which 
harms crops, but can also directly 
harm crops itself. ”
According to Burney, not only 
can increasing pollution harm crops 
themselves, but ozone, which is 
immediately toxic to plants, and 
other particulates like black carbon, 
organic carbon and sulfates change the quantity and nature of the 
sunlight that reaches these crops.
Burney is further interested 
in studying emission inventories, 
or where emissions are coming 
from and when they are being 
emitted, in order to develop a 
better understanding of how 
enforced regulation can promote 
sustainability. 
UCOP media specialist Brooke 
Converse discussed the UC system’s 
hope to use research throughout 
the UC campuses and with outside 
organizations in an attempt to 
reduce food insecurity overall. 
“The goal is to build on existing 
efforts and create new collaborations 
among the UC system’s 10 campuses, 
affiliated national laboratories 
and Division of Agriculture and 
Natural Resources, ” Converse told 
the Guardian. “The initiative aims Researchers Illustrate Effects of  Climate on Food 
UCSD and UCOP are working to develop sustainable and accessible food practices.Science and technology
See  FOOD , page 2Napolitano 
Announces 
Out-of-State 
Enrollment CapUC SYSTEM
UC Berkeley, UCLA and 
UCSD will have to limit non-
resident acceptance rates 
unless the state provides 
another $218 million in funds. 
University of California President 
Janet Napolitano announced on 
March 3 that she will cap the number 
of out-of-state undergraduate 
enrollments at specific UC campuses 
unless the state government provides 
the UC system an additional $218 
million in funding.
This would include capping UC 
Berkeley and UCLA at their current 
nonresident enrollment levels of 23 
and 20 percent, respectively, while 
limiting UCSD to a level of 20 
percent. The remaining campuses, 
which have an average out-of-state 
enrollment level of 6 percent, would 
not be subject to the enrollment caps.
Media Specialist at the UC 
Office of the President Shelly Meron 
informed the UCSD Guardian that 
the University of California system 
hopes to increase the enrollment 
of native Californian residents by 
1 percent — approximately 1,000 
students — each of the next five 
years. To do this, however, she said 
that the UC system needs a guarantee 
of additional funding, which the 
governor and legislature are still 
negotiating. 
“We are taking this action 
regrettably at a time of record-
high numbers of applications and 
when our state needs a highly 
skilled workforce more than ever, ” 
Meron said. “The [UC system] has a 
significant funding gap, and, without 
enrolling nonresident students, this 
gap would widen, diminishing the 
educational experience of California 
students and possibly forcing us to 
admit even fewer Californians. ”
State Assembly Speaker Toni 
G. Atkins said she disapproves of 
Napolitano’s ultimatum in a March 3 
press release.
“I am frustrated over [the 
University of California’s] latest 
attempt to use students as bargaining 
chips by agreeing to admit 2,000 new 
out-of-state students but threatening 
to limit the enrollment of new 
California students, ” Atkins said. 
“[The University of California’s] job 
is to educate California students, not 
waitlist them. ”
Atkins also expressed doubt that 
the UC system’s objectives align with 
students’ interests but  indicated that 
the Assembly’s does.
“I am concerned that UC [system] 
has lost sight of its mission to provide 
a high-quality education for the 
California students whose families 
built and pay for the University [of 
California], ” Atkins said. “ As the 
budget process moves forward, the 
Assembly is committed to ensuring 
See CAP , page 3B Y  Jacky  to
SENIOR staff writer 
B Y  Br ynna Bol t
Senior STAFF Writer
Candidates from all slates were allowed to begin campaiging after the Mandatory Candidates Meeting, which kicked off the 
2015–16 UCSD Associated Students General Elections cycle. Photo by Haocheng Tang / UCSD Guardian.to put the UC system, the state 
and the world on a pathway to 
sustainably and nutritiously feeding 
themselves. ”
Members of the UCSD 
community have recently worked 
toward providing food security on 
campus, as well, with the opening 
of the campus’ Triton Food Pantry 
on Jan. 5. 
The goal of the food pantry, 
which receives goods at a reduced 
cost by the San Diego Food Bank, is to provide free snacks or meals to 
UCSD students experiencing food 
insecurity.
Manager of the Triton Food 
Pantry Colin King told the Guardian 
that nutrition is an issue on a global 
as well as a local scale. 
“Global food insecurity is an issue 
due to the lack of food availability, 
access and use worldwide, ” King 
stated. “These basic pillars, 
as defined by the World Health 
Organization, also affect students. ”
King argues that students should 
not consider food a flexible expense. “From the student perspective, 
food is a flexible expense, and 
students skip meals to pay for 
mandatory expenses, such as tuition 
and housing, ” King said. “This, 
along with the negative stigma for 
those who are food insecure, makes 
people, including students on our 
campus, hesitant to get help. ”
According to Burney, UCSD 
continues to provide her with 
opportunities to work near other 
researchers interested in varying 
dimensions of related study.
“UCSD is a great place to do this kind of research because we 
have people working on all parts 
of the problem, from the cloud 
microphysics of how aerosols 
change cloud formation to the 
health and economic impacts of 
pollution to how countries do or do 
not agree on emissions reductions, ” 
Burney said. “It’s a very vibrant and 
interdisciplinary group. ”2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 9, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG N EWS
DIGITAL MONKEYS By Jeff Lau
#OMG 
#LIKE US
#FOLLOW US
@ucsdguar dian
Registration for WINTER Qtr is NOW open!
Register online at 
as.ucsd.edu/saferides
A.S. Safe Rides allows register ed un dergradua te 
studen ts to  get 3  FREE rides per quarter.
Studen ts must register  at lea st 24 hours
prio r to their first ride.  A.S. Safe Rides 
asucsd asucsdThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and 
Thursdays during the academic year by UCSD students 
and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this 
newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, 
without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2014, all 
rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible 
for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The 
views expressed herein do not necessarily represent 
the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of 
California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is 
funded by advertising. Use ALL the acronyms!
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Aleksandra Konstantinovic
Andrew E. Huang  
Taylor Sanderson
Tina Butoiu
Kriti Sarin
Charu Mehra
Cassia Pollock
Brandon Yu
John Story
Teiko Yakobson
Jacqueline Kim
Kyle Somers
Nilu Karimi
Siddharth Atre
Jonathan Gao
Joselynn Ordaz
Sherman Aline
Elyse Yang
Annie Liu
Rosina Garcia
Laura Chow
Vincent PhamEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
  
Associate News Editor
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Social Media Coordinator
Training and Development
Page Layout
Charu Mehra
Distribution
Christopher Graves, Josef Goodyear
Copy Readers
Andrew Chao, Caroline Lee, 
Editorial Assistants
Shelby Newallis, Jennifer Grundman,  
Karly Nisson, Mario Attie, Marcus ThuillierTriton Food Pantry Contributes to Global Initiative by Attempting to Reduce Food Insecurity 
▶ FOOD,  from page 1
Br ynna  bol t   bbolt@ucsd.edu readers can contact
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGsee more at
Updates on A.S. elections, upcoming albums and game results.
BY KYLE SZETO/ GUARDIANFOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK
AND TWITTER
@ucsdguardianUC [schools] remains affordable and 
open for California students. ”
Chief Deputy Press Secretary 
at the Office of the Governor Jim 
Evans told the Guardian that a proper 
solution to the spending-funding gap 
is continuing to develop. 
“We continue to work closely 
with the University of California 
and the legislature on a budget 
proposal that reduces the University 
[of California]’s cost structure, 
while increasing access and quality, ” 
Evans said.
Relatedly, assembly member 
Roger Hernandez later introduced 
AB 837, a bill that would cap the 
annual salary of all UC employees 
at $500,000 and, in turn, save the 
University of California $80 million 
annually.
Hernandez believes that AB 
837 will produce a more equitable 
allocation of spending.
“Less spending on [University 
of California’s] bloated executive ranks means more resources will be 
available for students, ” Hernandez said 
in a March 3 press release.  “This 
bill is directed toward a very small 
percentage of UC employees who take 
up a large portion of the UC budget, 
student funds and taxpayer dollars. ”
American Federation of State, 
County and Municipal Employees 
3299 President Kathryn Lybarger 
thinks that the salary cap is 
reasonable, given that most high-
profile government officials earn less.
“If the President of the United 
States, every U.S. governor and the 
staff of the Federal Reserve Bank can 
all get by on substantially less than 
$500,000 per year, there is no reason 
why employees at a publicly funded 
university cannot do the same, ” 
Lybarger said.
According to the AFSCME, 
total UC spending increased by 40 
percent between 2007 and 2013 
while the salaries of [the University 
of California’s] highest-earning 
employees more than tripled from $67 
million to $270 million. Moreover, the UC Board of Regents voted to 
increase tuition by 5 percent for five 
years in 2014.
Meron told the Guardian that the 
UC system has not taken a position 
on the bill yet. However, she noted 
that the percentage of the UC payroll 
that the state and student fees fund is 
declining. 
According to Meron, only 3 
percent of UC employees earn more 
than $200,000 per year and non-state 
funds are used to finance many of their 
salaries. Furthermore, none of the UC 
campuses rank above 42nd in terms of 
chancellor salary out of the nation’s 60 
most prominent institutions, except 
UC San Francisco, which ranks 20th. 
“University of California operates 
in a very competitive, national 
market, ” Meron said. “ And we aim 
to offer all of our employees pay and 
benefits that are fair and competitive, 
and that will help us attract and retain 
highly qualified workers. ”for Vice President of Campus Affairs, 
stated that, if elected, he would try 
to make A.S. Council more efficient.
“We need to move toward a more 
efficient model where the AVPs and 
the representatives are able to do 
the same things they do in council, 
but are able to do that in a way that 
occurs in a separate environment 
from Council, ” Dierking suggested.
Students Determined’s Vice 
President of Campus Affairs can -
didate Taylor Valdivia told the 
Guardian that her party platform 
consists of four major aspects: men -
tal health, student resource acces -
sibility, access and retention, and Triton equality and community and 
empowerment.
“Students Determined believes 
students have the power to make 
transformative change on the UC 
San Diego campus, in the commu -
nity and in the world, ” Valdivia said. 
“We fundamentally believe that no 
student should be excluded from the 
student movement. ”
Their presidential candidate is 
Travis Miller. He was not available 
for comment by press time.
Krystl Fabella, Students 
Determined’s candidate for Vice 
President of External Affairs, 
explained the direction of the exter -
nal office to the Guardian.
“[The goals of the Office of External Affairs are] moving toward 
affordability, controlling the tuition 
crises and helping students recognize 
their voice in UC [system]wide injus -
tices and how they are empowered 
through the office, ” Fabella said. “Too 
often, I hear that students do not 
know what ‘external issues’ means, 
what [the University of California 
Student Association] does and how 
the office empowers them. ”
The final campuswide slate is 
Tritons FIGHT.
The A.S. General elections will be 
held Monday, April 6 through Friday, 
April 10. N EWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 9, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
LIGHTS & SIRENSLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edu.
Monday, Feb. 23
12:25 p.m.: Medical Aid
An adult female had a seizure in 
the Biomedical Sciences Building. 
Transported to hospital.
3:58 p.m.: Citizen Contact
Disturbing posters were found 
around Price Center. Posters 
removed.
Tuesday, Feb. 24
1:52 a.m.: Medical Aid
A young adult male accidentally 
took more than his prescribed dose 
of medication in the Sixth College 
Apartments.  Transported to hospital. 
Wednesday, Feb. 25
1:28 a.m.: Suicide Attempt
A female subject made suicidal 
threats after arguing with her boy -
friend. Transported to hospital for 
evaluation.
8:50 p.m.: Injury
A passerby saw an elderly male fall 
and hit his head near the Pangea 
Parking Structure, although the 
male did not want medical aid. 
Gone on arrival.
Thursday, Feb. 26
9:39 p.m.: Disturbance
Faculty members were reportedly 
fighting while intoxicated at the 
Loft.  Closed by adult arrest.
Friday, Feb. 27
12:09 a.m.: Medical Aid
A young adult female had an 
anxiety attack in the Revelle 
Apartments. Transported to hospital.
4:34 p.m.: Injury
A young adult male lost conscious -
ness and fell off his skateboard, suf -fering facial injuries. Transported to 
hospital.
Saturday, Feb. 28
1:27 a.m.: Disturbance
Eight citations were issued in the 
Matthews Apartments for under -
age alcohol consumption. Closed by 
adult citations.
2:27 p.m.: Fire
A Metropolitan Transit System bus 
caught on fire, though all passen -
gers evacuated safely. Information 
only.
Sunday, March 1
3:09 a.m.: Alcohol Contact
An RSO located a young adult male 
passed out and unresponsive inside 
a Village East suite. Transported to 
hospital.
11:26 a.m.: Escapee
San Diego Police brought a young 
adult male to the Scripps Memorial 
Hospital for ingesting narcotics, 
who fled when the officers left. 
Unable to locate.
Monday, March 2
8:08 a.m.: Hazard Situation
A delivery truck broke down and 
was blocking Scholars Drive North. 
Information only.
Tuesday, March 3
4:14 p.m.: Disturbance
A student at UNEX B was yell -
ing and being disruptive while 
demanding to see a dean. Checks 
OK.
— ANDREW E. HUANG
Managing EditorDierking: A.S. Council Needs to Move T owards More Efficient Model 
▶ ELECTIONS,  from page 1
Maria Sebas  msebas@ucsd.edu readers can contact
California Assembly Member Proposed UC Employee Salary Limit 
▶ CAP , from page 1
JACKY TO  J6TO@ucsd.edu readers can contact4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 9, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CHARU MEHRA
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
It’s both 12-year-old Tamir Rice and his family’s fault that he was 
shot by questionably sane Officer Timothy Loehmann for waving a 
pellet gun around, or so the city of Cleveland claims.
The Cleveland Police made so many easily avoidable mistakes 
here that it’s hard to find where to start. From the get-go, a 911 
dispatcher warned that, while Rice was pointing a gun at pedestrians, 
it was “probably fake. ” Tragically, that last part wasn’t relayed to the 
officers en route.
When Officer Frank Garmback pulled up to the scene, he drove 
the police cruiser far too close to Rice. Hubert Williams, former 
president of the Police Foundation and 30-year police veteran, said, 
“pulling up to a scene where an individual had a gun is somewhat 
problematic. ... If a guy has a real gun, you’re definitely pulling into 
the line of fire. ” 
Had Rice been an actual threat, Garmback would have been 
putting his partner’s life in considerable peril. However, since 
Rice was not a danger, the close positioning of the cruiser forced 
an unpredictable Loehmann into a catastrophic confrontation. A 
farther distance would have given Loehmann the opportunity to 
communicate with Rice to drop his toy.
Deputy Chief Edward Tomba mentioned in a press conference that 
Rice made no verbal threats and no physical confrontation occurred. A 
video of the situation released to the public confirms the latter.
Even more outrageous is that Rice was well within his 
constitutional rights to carry any sort of gun, toy or not. Ohio is an open-carry state, and Cleveland is not like Chicago, where toy guns 
are banned in public. There should have been little cause for alarm.
In the end, Rice wasn’t even given a chance. Loehmann fired at 
him within two seconds of exiting the vehicle. Pulling up to the scene, 
it’s as if the officer knew he was going to be someone’s judge, jury and 
executioner, which begs the question: Why is Loehmann on the force 
to begin with? 
In 2012, Loehmann was judged unfit for duty by the 
Independence Police Department after having an emotional 
breakdown while handling a firearm.
“His handgun performance was dismal, ” Independence Deputy 
Chief Jim Polak said in a training memo. Loehmann had also been 
previously rejected from police departments in Parma Heights, 
Akron and Euclid.
Cops are not bad people. Loehmann, though, is a terrible cop. 
Officers like him are the reason a significant proportion of the 
American people take “to protect and to serve” to mean “to seek and 
destroy, ” and that does a great disservice to the men and women in 
blue who do their jobs properly.
Someone has to be held accountable, but who? The answer 
should not have been Rice. The city of Cleveland has utterly failed 
to properly address the grievances of Rice’s family. With the way 
the law is set up, there is no way to legally punish Loehmann. Still, 
if there’s any justice in this world, the Cleveland Police Department 
should immediately demand his resignation.
As the war wages on against tobacco products and their negative health 
consequences, California is attempting to pass two new state senate bills 
regarding cigarette/e-cigarette consumption. One of the bills, SB 140, bans 
the use of e-cigarettes in public areas. The other, SB 151 makes it illegal to 
sell cigarettes to anyone below age 21. Although stopping the perpetuation 
of cigarette use among young people is important, these bills may do more 
harm than good.
First, let’s consider SB 151. What might be the result of raising the age for 
buying cigarettes from 18 to 21? 
There is no need to look any further than the legal drinking age in the 
U.S. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, alcohol 
is the most commonly abused drug among youth in the U.S., more than 
tobacco or illicit drugs, and is responsible for more than 4,300 annual deaths 
among this demographic. 
“ Although drinking by persons under the age of 21 is illegal, ” notes the 
CDC, “people aged 12 to 20 years drink 11 percent of all alcohol consumed 
in the United States. ” Now, that’s not to say that increasing the age for buying 
cigarettes will inevitably lead to a massive increase in tobacco use. However, 
it is wishful thinking to believe that young people won’t still have access to 
these dangerous products. Policies that target age groups in particular can 
also contribute to teens picking up smoking as an act of rebellion — the more 
illicit, the more appealing. Thus, this policy also has the potential to create 
a larger underground cigarette market. Outright prohibition as a strategy to prevent substance abuse proved a failure in the 1920s and again from the ‘70s 
onward in the War On Drugs. During that time, a trillion dollars were spent 
to overcrowd U.S. prisons with small-time drug offenders. The aim to reduce 
drug use is noble, but the tactics are ultimately ineffective. 
SB 140, the ban on public e-cigarette use, is perhaps another example of 
a misdirected remedy to an obvious problem. Although there is an ongoing 
debate concerning the potential dangers of e-cigarette vapor, there is very 
little comprehensive scientific evidence in support of either side. There is 
evidence, however, of the effectiveness of e-cigarettes as tools for reducing 
traditional cigarette use. A large University College London survey of 
smokers in England indicated that individuals attempting to quit smoking are 
about 60 percent more likely to report succeeding if they use e-cigarettes than 
if they use over-the-counter nicotine replacement therapies such as patches, 
gum or willpower alone. Regulation and prohibitory laws will likely stagnate 
the e-cig industry and create an adversarial relationship between the industry 
and government, rather than encourage a focus on health and transparency, 
as well as further research.
While SB 140 and SB 151 aim to confront important issues, they use 
flawed strategies that have unfortunately become familiar in the U.S. ’s historic 
drug policies.   
—  HAILEY SANDEN
Senior Staff WriterSB 151 and SB 140 Are Well-Intentioned, But Will Backfire on Lawmakers
QUICK TAKESIN LIGHT OF THE LATEST LEGISLATIVE PROPOSALS BY CALIFORNIA LAWMAKERS IN THE STATE ASSEMBLY AND SENATE, 
THE OPINION SECTION WEIGHS IN ON A COUPLE OF THE BILLS THAT ARE MOST LIKELY TO AFFECT UCSD STUDENTS.So you’re finally living off cam -
pus after two years of being 
coddled by Housing, Dining 
and Hospitality and must come to 
terms with a new diet that does not 
include any Dining Dollars. This 
means no more late-night trips to the 
Middle of Muir market to stock up on 
ramen and microwavable meals, no 
more breakfast burritos and no more 
Pines cheesecake. Most tragically, 
this also means no more end-of-the-
quarter Bistro buffets to use up your 
remaining Dining Dollars. It’s time to 
be a real adult and properly feed your -
self. Luckily, for you, we’ve created a 
handy-dandy how-to guide to make 
your life a little less hungry.
To begin, you must visit your 
more responsible friends’ apart -
ments. No student should ever go 
hungry, and that includes you. Make 
sure your backpack is empty so that 
you have appropriate storage space. 
Express no shame or hesitation while 
you load up on their seemingly end -
less supplies of peanut butter and 
jelly, pasta and as many non-perish -
ables as you can. PB&Js are going to 
be your new favorite sandwich. On 
some days, this may even serve as 
breakfast, lunch and dinner. Don’t 
bother wasting valuable money on 
broccoli, asparagus or overpriced 
organic vegetables. All of your nutri -
ents can be found through enriched 
vitamin supplements present in rice, 
pasta, KIND bars and cereal boxes. 
Next, get to know which on-
campus friends really care about you. 
These are the type of people who will 
happily swipe their ID card on your 
behalf as you trail after them into caf -
eterias. Never ever make the mistake 
of spending actual money on cafeteria 
food because there will be always be 
a true friend hiding somewhere on 
campus who will pay for you. It also 
helps to pay an appropriate amount 
of attention to the opposite sex and 
utilize the art of seduction to gain free 
meals. Wink at strangers while stand -
ing by the door of Pines, and then cut 
closely in front of them in the food 
line. When they protest, laugh wildly 
and flirtatiously admit that you have 
stepped in just to be closer to them. 
At the cash register, tragically confess 
that your wallet has unexpectedly 
disappeared. Pout your lips and flutter 
your eyelashes, perhaps even shedding 
a few tears, until someone rescues you 
from starvation. All this hard work 
can be exhausting, but do not lose 
hope. The reward is well worth it.
Finally, take advantage of social 
events on campus. Be a well-fed 
social butterfly. Attend every 
open-house party with pizza at 
International House, finals week 
brunch at the dining halls and all the 
miscellaneous receptions and meet -
ings taking place across campus with 
free food available. Not only will this 
keep you from starving but you can 
also network in the process! Having 
a full belly is always a win-win. Save 
yourself the trips to the grocery 
store and follow our guide and you’ll 
surely be satisfied. A Guide to
Getting Fed
Without
Going Broke
Above the Law
The recently handed down ruling in the police shooting of  12-year-old Tamir Rice is 
just another faux pas in a string of  questionable judicial decisions. 
BY JORDAN UTLEY-THOMSON
STAFF WRITERILLUSTRATION BY ROCIO PLASCENCIA
See QUICK TAKES,  page 5How-to Guru
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
The UCSD Guardian is published twice weekly at 
the University of California at San Diego. Contents 
© 2014. Views expressed herein represent those of 
the opinion section writers and are not necessarily 
those of the UC Board of Regents, the ASUCSD or 
the full Guardian staff. OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 9, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
To start your transformation, get in touch today. 310.568.2366 or 866.503.5467 
gsep-recruitment@pepperdine.edu • gsep.pepperdine.eduTo transform lives. 
Her game plan: A Master 
of Arts in Education from Pepperdine.jane’sambition:Among the hundreds of 
bills that are proposed 
to the California Senate, SB 
178, the California Electronic 
Communications Privacy Act, 
will prove to be a promising step 
forward in terms of our privacy. 
This bill would require law 
enforcement and other government 
entities to issue a search warrant in 
order to obtain information from 
an electronic device. The fact that 
user confidentiality has not been 
protected until now is unsettling.  
This long-overdue legislation 
will certainly protect individuals 
from the government’s historic 
infringement on our privacy. 
A January 2014 CNN news article reported that several 
people in California who were 
tried in court were additionally 
convicted of unrelated crimes 
after law enforcement officers 
found evidence on their personal 
electronic devices linking them 
to drug and gang-related activity. 
CalECPA would prevent this from 
happening because a search warrant 
would have to be issued and law 
enforcement would have to specify 
the range of dates that they need to 
look through. Simply looking for 
evidence does not and should not 
give law enforcement the freedom 
to arbitrarily look for a problem not 
relevant to the one at hand. 
The American Civil Liberties Union of Northern California 
notes that the transparency that 
this bill evokes is important when 
it comes to our personal property. 
This will ensure that the authorities 
need to have reasonable cause 
and are abiding by the law. With 
major companies, such as Google 
and Facebook supporting this bill, 
hopefully Gov. Jerry Brown will 
see the importance of protecting 
our privacy and sign this bill into 
law. This is the 21st century and it’s 
about time California laws reflects 
the digital age we live in. 
—  ROSINA GARCIA
Copy EditorWORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
SB 178 Brings Legal Protection of  Privacy Up T o Modern Standards▶ QUICK TAKES,  from page 4GOT ISSUES?
BE HEARD
BY YOUR PEERS!SEND YOUR 
LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 9, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
TEIKO  Y AKOBSON
features@ucsdguardian.org
Almost exactly two years ago today, the atmosphere in Price Center Ball -
room East was rapidly devolving from bitterly cold to borderline hostile. 
Following weeks of debate between Students for Justice in Palestine and 
Tritons for Israel, A.S. Council was hosting an evening of student input before 
voting on a resolution that asked the University of California to pull its consider -
able investments from companies that, SJP argued, profit from the “illegal siege, 
blockade and occupation of Palestine. ”
In the brief time they each had to speak, students from both sides shared emo -
tionally charged, personal stories that often held parallel themes of war, persecu -
tion and on-campus isolation. The audience, composed primarily of members 
of each community — and thus segmented — was far from shy in expressing 
alternating support or vitriol for the speaker.
Y et despite these exhaustive eight hours of student input and debate, Council 
didn’t make it to the vote that night. The decision came instead a week later on 
March 13, 2013, following a closed executive session: UCSD would vote to divest.
Divestment is based on the same principle as economic sanctions but can be 
done by non-governmental entities, like companies which often create jobs and 
stimulate the economy in foreign countries. The idea is that by pulling their busi -
ness from certain countries, companies can create enough economic hardship for 
a state to change unjust policies and practices.
UCSD was not the first campus to approve the divestment resolution, nor 
would it be the last — UCLA passed its own resolution in November of last year, 
which made it the fifth UC campus out of 10 to do so and signaled the turning 
tides that would prompt the University of California Student Association to vote 
on two divestment resolutions last month. 
The first resolution had been introduced by SJP in November and was tabled 
for months. Entitled “Resolution Calling for UC Regents to Divest from Corpora -
tions Violating Palestinian Human Rights, ” it called for divestment from certain 
companies — namely Caterpillar, Boeing and others that do business in Israel.
The second, further-reaching resolution asked the UC system to divest funds 
from governments that have violated fundamental rights to life and liberty, in -
cluding Brazil, Egypt, Indonesia, Russia, Turkey, Sri Lanka, Mexico and even the 
United States.
UCSA, which is comprised of representatives from 15 out of 19 student gov -
ernments across the UC system, passed both resolutions. 
Supporters of divestment say that, in the past, divestment campaigns have suc -
ceeded in pressuring foreign governments to change their policies.
President of SJP at UCSD Amira Abudia told the UCSD Guardian that divest -
ment has had far-reaching effects in the past.
“Divestment is the same tactic that was used for the South African 
apartheid, ” Abudiab said.In the 1980s, the anti-apartheid movement pressed American companies to stop 
doing business in South Africa until the statewide segregation of races was ended 
and conditions for black and Asian citizens improved. The movement was largely 
supported by the efforts of students at Stanford University, Michigan State University 
and the UC system, the latter of whom pressured the administration to withdraw 
nearly $3 billion worth of investments from South Africa to protest apartheid. 
It was a move praised by anti-apartheid organizers throughout the state who 
saw Nelson Mandela’s visit to California, one of the largest economies to disinvest 
from the country, as validation of their efforts, according to a July 1, 1990 Los 
Angeles Times article.
One of the key differences in the divestiture campaigns of the 1980s and those 
on UC campuses today is the U.S. federal government’s stance on the issue. In 
addition to other economic sanctions on the country, the Comprehensive Anti-
Apartheid Act of 1986 banned new American investment in South Africa and 
reduced imports from the country by 35 percent. However, a 2010 UC Board of 
Regents statement cites following the lead of the federal government as part of its 
reasoning to reject divestment.
“We fully support the [UC] Board of Regents in its policy to divest from a 
foreign government or companies doing business with a foreign government only 
when the United States government declares that a foreign regime is committing 
acts of genocide, ” the statement reads. “The U.S. has not made any declaration 
regarding the state of Israel, and, therefore, we will not bring a recommendation 
before the [UC] Board [of Regents] to divest from companies doing business with 
the State of Israel. ”
David Makovsky, director of the Washington Institute for Near East Policy 
Project on the Middle East Peace Process, told the Guardian that divestment is 
largely a symbolic move.
“The [UC system] actually doesn’t divest itself — it does all the damage with -
out any of the positive, ” Makovsky said. “I see this issue as ripping students apart. 
It’s making some students feel that they are not welcome on campus — that [their] 
campus is a hostile place. ”
After the divestment resolution was passed at UCSD in 2013, Chancellor Kho -
sla released a statement reiterating the UC Regents’ decision from May 2010 that 
“such divestment is not the policy of the University of California [system] and 
that a divestment resolution will not be brought before the Regents, ” effectively 
negating A.S. Council’s weeks of debate.
A similar statement has not been made following UCSA ’s vote. But in a Feb. 
20 meeting with the UC Regents Investment Committee, SJP-UCLA and other 
groups involved in the investment of UC system funds called for the Board of 
Regents to respect campus divestment votes.What You Need to Know about
 Divestment
 Last month, the UC Student Association voted to pass two resolutions encourag -
ing UC divestment, a move that’s been stricken by debate for the past two years. 
The UCSD Guardian breaks down everything you need to know thus far.
WRITTEN BY ALEKSANDRA KONSTANTINOVIC // EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
ILLUSTRATION BY ELYSE YANGreaders can contact
alek sandra  Konst antinovic   alkonsta@ucsd.edu FEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 9, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
College students know that referencing a Wikipedia article in 
a paper is a universal taboo — a lazy research tactic guar -
anteed to diminish the legitimacy of any academic argu -
ment. But that doesn’t mean they avoid Wikipedia. No, students 
regularly turn to “the free encyclopedia” because it offers quick, 
logical-sounding answers to their desperate, mid-paper uncer -
tainties. But why should a website habitually accessed by so many 
people remain a source of bias when it is open to editing by such a 
diverse population?
Looking to narrow a gender gap just as prominent online as in 
real life, the founders behind the Art+Feminism Wikipedia Edit-
A-Thon are starting with one of the world’s most visited sites.
In a sense, the online presence of Wikipedia is inescapable. Even 
Google — the most used website in the world — offers a conve -
niently short, bolded answer to searches at the top of its results that 
is plucked straight from the pages of Wikipedia. Hence, it makes 
sense that a campaign looking to tackle a modern issue of inequal -
ity would start with a site whose biases and inaccuracies — though 
ignored in the name of convenience — can be easily fixed.
The Art+Wikipedia Edit-a-Thon started in New Y ork as an 
event meant to bring together artists, feminists and eager Wiki -
pedia contributors in a common effort to lessen the site’s blatant 
gender gap. A 2011 survey determined that women make up less 
than 15 percent of Wikipedia’s active contributors and less than 
8 percent of its editors. This drastic difference between male and 
female involvement doesn’t seem to be improving, and the result 
is an ongoing bias — an underrepresentation of women and the 
documentation of their achievements.
Since its debut last year, the event has expanded, with satellite 
events put on by willing volunteers popping up all over the nation. 
Graduate students within the UCSD department of visual arts 
have brought the event to San Diego in the hopes that it will en -
courage students to recognize the site’s unequal coverage of male 
and female artists and, as host Angela Washko puts it, decrease 
Wikipedia’s bias.
Washko, responsible for helping to bring the campaign to San 
Diego, saw the Edit-A-Thon as a good fit for UCSD.
“I had been familiar with the umbrella event in [New Y ork] that 
started it all last year, ” she told the UCSD Guardian. “ As an artist 
[myself], through a community of internet artists, I became more 
and more aware of how quickly it changed from one event to more 
and more events. And the effectiveness of it was well-documented. ”
The aim of the campaign is fairly specific: tackling the Wiki -
pedia biases by focusing primarily on women and the arts. This 
focus derives from the controversy spurred by the site’s misrep -resentation of female artists — the most notable case of which 
involving artist-philosopher Adrian Piper. Unsatisfied with the 
inaccuracies in her Wikipedia page, Piper requested that it be 
deleted. While her request was eventually acknowledged, the page 
reconstructed in its place offered only a new set of false claims. 
Following Piper’s struggle with the site, art activists quickly 
directed their attention toward Wikipedia, setting out to balance 
the coverage of male and female artists and diminish the misrep -
resentation of women.
Washko emphasizes that, to avoid similar misrepresentations 
in the future and to correct current errors, the participants of 
the Edit-A-Thon should add to Wikipedia female artists whose 
notable achievements have been overlooked.
But exactly how will these blossoming editors address who 
should and should not be added to the free encyclopedia?
“We’re looking at historical notoriety in terms of whether their 
work has been considered by critics of their field to be important, ” 
Washko said. “Things that have not made their way onto Wikipe -
dia: historically important artists, theorists, critics and writers — 
either those who have not made it or those who have and what is 
[on their page] is not representative of their work. ”
Washko said that the process has involved a lot of research. 
Indeed, with a long list of female artists Wikipedia either misrep -
resents or briefly mentions, the participants in the campaign have 
a lot of editing ahead of them. 
Y et contributing to the Art+Feminism Wikipedia Edit-A-Thon 
does not require any prior editing knowledge. The hosts of the 
event, Washko and her fellow graduate students, offer tutorials 
and reference materials for beginners eager to contribute. At the 
very least, the campaign aims to encourage people to take interest 
in editing and correcting a site they probably rely on regularly. 
“It is open and accessible to people who have never edited 
Wikipedia before, ” Washko said. “There are training sessions 
every hour. We hope everyone will leave learning how to publish 
a stub article. ” 
Washko said that she hopes the San Diego satellite event, 
which took place at 1 p.m. this past Sunday, will also attract 
more Southern California-based artists and art to Wikipedia. In 
bringing the New Y ork-based event to San Diego, Washko and 
her fellow graduate students will help make the Art+Feminism 
Wikipedia Edit-A-Thon a national movement. 
Certainly, with the support of determined volunteers and 
motivated participants, the campaign will succeed in narrow -
ing Wikipedia’s gender gap and contributing missing pages to an 
incomplete collection.
Wiki-ty  whack
In celebration of Women’s History Month, UCSD hosted its first Art+Feminism Wikipedia Edit-a-thon. A group gathered yesterday at Geisel 
Library to type away at over 40 pages, striving to bring a fair representation of women and artists to everyone’s favorite online encyclopedia.
Hosts:  Angela Jennings, Angela Washko, Ash Eliza Smith, Elmira Mohebali, Erika Ostrander, 
Heidi Kayser, Nichole Speciale, Alexandra de Leon, Lia Friedman, Gayatri SinghWritten By  Karly Nisson // A&E Editorial Assistant
Photos By Thiba Thiagarajan 
readers can contact Karl y   nisson   knisson@ucsd.edu8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 9, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEA TURES
Art+Feminism
Art+Feminism
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Brooke Singer , co-founder of Preemptive Media and professor of New Me -
dia at Purchase College, State University of New York, created an online data 
visualization application, Superfund365, that everyday highlights a different 
toxic contamination site in the U.S.
Dara Greenwald  (1971–2012) co-founded Pink Bloque, a “radical feminist 
dance troupe dedicated to challenging the white supremacist capitalist patri -
archal empire one street dance party at a time.”
Mary Reid Kelley  produces black and white videos that fuse classical drama, 
modern literature and contemporary pop culture into observations on gender, 
class and urban development.
Narcissister  is a performance artist whom the Huffington Post called the 
“topless femimist superhero of New York.”  
Jennie C. Jones , a New York-based artist, will have a ten-year survey of her 
work open at the Contemporary Arts Museum in Houston, Texas at the end of 
the year.
Laura Owens , in 2004, was the youngest artist ever to receive a retrospective 
at the Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles.
Dawn Clements  is a contemporary artist who uses sumi ink and ballpoint 
pen on small to large scale paper panels, cutting and pasting paper to edit 
her pieces and achieve the desired scale. Her completed drawings show her 
process of editing and adding through wrinkles and folds.
Anna Joy Springer  is a UCSD associate professor of writing. She is known for 
her experimental literature and was previously a punk singer in the Bay Area.SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 9, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
UCSD junior epeeist Nicole Chi -
ang was able to win a podium spot 
for the women’s epee, as she went 
9–3 overall for the day. Stanford took 
the top two positions with freshman 
epeeist Rebecca Rose and sophomore 
epeeist May Peterson, while Chiang 
placed third. 
For the women’s foil, Air Force 
Academy took home the gold and 
silver with junior foilists Mary McEl -
wee and Madeleine Girardot, and 
Stanford took home the bronze with 
sophomore foilist Eliza Klyce. Fresh -
man foilist Sophia Holmqvist was the 
top finisher for UCSD, in fifth place.
Women’s saber fared similarly as 
junior sabrist Megan Gesner finished 
the highest at fourth, just missing the podium. Stanford won the gold 
and silver with sophomore sabrists 
Stephanie Wang and Alex Rohan, 
and Air Force Academy’s sabrist 
Alyssa Hofilena earned the bronze.
The selections for who will 
be competing in the 2015 NCAA 
Fencing Championships will be an -
nounced on Tuesday, March 10 at 1 
p.m., with the three Triton hopefuls 
Callaghan, Hadler and Chiang in the 
best position to qualify for a trip to 
the national stage. 
The NCAA Championships will 
be held on March 19 to 22 at Ohio 
State University’s French Field House 
in Columbus.
free food!
free scantrons!free blue books!MONDA Y , MAR 23RD
PC BALLROOMS A/B
10:00PMNCAA Selections to be Announced Tuesday
▶ FENCING,  from page 12quently scored on a throwing error to 
give UCSD a 2–1 advantage.
 In the sixth inning, the Seawolves 
answered back and scored four runs 
off five base hits and two walked 
batters. An error by Triton fresh -
man catcher Lauren Sanders put a 
fifth opposing run on the scoreboard 
to bring the score to 6–2. Despite 
a Schneider run in the sixth, the 
Tritons failed to overcome the deficit, 
ending Friday’s doubleheader with a 
disheartening 6–3 loss.
 “Sonoma made a very good 
adjustment today against Mo Omori, 
our relief pitcher, ” UCSD associ -
ate head coach Jessica Millsap said. 
“Tomorrow, we’re just going to have 
to be aware of that and come into the 
game with a different strategy. ”
 The big blue returned to Triton 
Softball field on Saturday for the 
remainder of the series, but fell short 
in game three despite a strong effort. The Seawolves snatched the first run 
of the game yet again — four walked 
batters in the first inning posted the 
score at 1–0.
 UCSD battled back hard in the 
bottom of the second. A total of four 
RBIs from freshman third baseman 
Rachel Phillips, Maday and Abeyta 
gave UCSD a 4–1 edge.
 However, the lead didn’t hold 
for long: The Seawolves scored six 
unearned runs to reclaim their lead 
in the top of the third. UCSD at -
tempted to close the gap, with Baker 
scoring one run in the bottom of the 
third and Schneider claiming another 
in the bottom of the fifth. Despite the 
offensive effort, the Tritons couldn’t 
take the final run and fell 7–6.
 Despite the three losses, UCSD 
avoided the series sweep with a nar -
row 3–2 victory in the final game on 
Saturday. Maday and Abeyta scored 
for the Tritons in the third inning.
 The Seawolves made a play to close the gap in the top of the fifth: 
sophomore third-baseman Olivia 
Lucchese scored off a triple by Purdy, 
posting the first run of the game on 
the scoreboard for Sonoma State. 
UCSD responded with a run by 
Woken in the bottom of the sixth, 
which proved just enough for a 3–2 
final score. 
 “I like to think the past is in the 
past and you can’t change it, so you 
just have to focus on what you can 
do and make future games have a 
better outcome, ” Duarte said. “We are 
a great team, and if we just focus on 
how we play as a team, we can win. ”
 UCSD will be on the road again 
against Cal State Dominguez Hills, 
who is ranked one spot ahead, on 
Sunday, March 22 and Monday, 
March 23, hoping to rebound off the 
recent defeats.UCSD Looks Ahead to a Road Series at CSU Dominguez Hills
▶ SOFTBALL ,  from page 12
readers can contact
ka tie potts    kpotts@ucsd.edu 
readers can contact
gurkira t singh   gsingh@ucsd.edu 
PHOTO USED WITH PERMISSION FROM UCSD ATHLETICS
follow us on twitter:
@UCSD_sportsmentions) and senior center Dana 
Webster all had eight points, in 
what was the last game of their 
collegiate career.
“We have a very young team and 
hopefully we’ll learn from it and be 
ready to come back and compete for 
a championship, ” VanDerveer told 
the UCSD Athletics Department. 
“That’s our goal. ”
After clinching its eighth consecutive playoff berth, UCSD 
fell disappointingly in the opening 
round for the second straight year. 
Top-seed Cal State Dominguez 
Hills defeated sixth-seed Cal State 
East Bay in the final, earning 
its second consecutive CCAA 
tournament championship.
With six departing seniors 
and only two returning starters, 
UCSD is looking ahead to an 
offseason full of unknowns. Under 
the leadership of Shokoor and rising stars Mounier and redshirt 
freshman guard Taylor Tanita, the 
Tritons still have reason to expect 
another playoff-caliber year in 
2016. However, building a deep 
squad capable of coming up in the 
clutch moments of the postseason 
still remains a question mark for 
the next campaign. 
The Tritons end their successful 
year with a 16–11 record, the most 
wins since the 2008–09 campaign. 
Despite having no seniors on the 
roster and being projected to finish 
ninth in the CCAA, the Tritons 
finished fifth. 
“I love playing with this team; 
this is one of my favorite teams I’ve ever had the opportunity to play 
on, ” Dyer said. “To have freshmen 
come in and just fit in right away 
and to be part of the group right 
away, it’s special — we have a 
special group. We’re not losing 
anybody. We’ll be back next year. ”Full Squad Will Return in 2015–16
readers can contact
Daniel sung  d2sung@ucsd.edu readers can contact
marcus thuillier  mthuilli@ucsd.edu ▶ M. BASKETBALL,  from page 12Tritons Suffer Second Consecutive First-Round Playoff  Exit
▶ W. BASKETBALL ,  from page 1210 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 9, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
CLASSIFIEDS$
Guar dian Classi/f_ieds ar e FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifieds
crossword
ACROSS
1 Largest oceanic dolphin
5 “__ consummation devoutly to be 
wish’d”: Hamlet
9 Hi-tech battler
12 Wood finishing tool
15 Brooklyn, say, briefly
16 Small program with a browser inter -
face
17 Surrealist Tanguy
18 Long-distance messages?
20 Prepare for storage, as a carpet
23 Barry who played Lt. Gerard on TV’s 
“The Fugitive”
24 “Rumor has it ... ”
25 1876 Twain hero
29 Health insurance giant
30 Incredulous dying words
31 It might involve a proxy fight
38 On
39 Memory principle
40 Ice cream flavor
45 Minor, legally
46 When Ovid’s “Ars Amatoria” is believed 
to have been published
47 Notable show biz sisters
48 Home of the NBA’s Thunder
53 Landing
54 Might achieve
58 Letter-bottom abbr.
59 78 half
60 “Silent Spring” subj.
61 River to the Seine
62 Singer born Eithne Patricia Ní 
Bhraonáin
DOWN
1 Part of a prepositional phr.
2 “The Crying Game” actor
3 XXXI x V4 Obliquely
5 About 1/3 of Maine’s I-95, e.g.
6 Hanging out, say
7 Spies
8 Drawing intro
9 Flaubert heroine
10 Words implying consequences
11 One pitching
13 Japanese warrior
14 For one
15 Yet
19 Early ABC show, for short
20 Sumptuous
21 First state admitted to the Union from 
the Northwest Territory
22 Longevity
25 Saw things?
26 Emperor who deposed Pope John XII
27 Mindanao peak: Abbr.
28 Czech composer Josef
32 Europe’s __ de Genève
33 Vicarious feeling
34 Singly
35 Nix
36 Qatar dignitary
37 Soaks, as flax
40 Exhausted
41 How many Colonial debts were paid
42 Choose
43 Slope contraptions
44 Bavarian beef?
47 Nub
49 “__ Be Back With You”: Steve Forbert 
song
50 Half a fish
51 Just like that
52 Supervision
55 Woodsman’s makeup
56 At least one
57 Hot spot?BIKES
Great Motorcycle Bicycle for Sale - $40. This is 
a bike that looks like a motorcycle, has one yel -
low tire and one black tire which is very cool. 
The bike is in great shape and is ready to ride. 
Has been in storage for some years. Listing ID: 
127977674 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
BMX - $85. Chrome Free Agent freestyle. 
Chrome moly crank. Alloy 20” wheels. ⅜ axles. 
Great knobby tires. Few scratches, but chrome 
in attractive shape. Two very small dents in 
downtube. Listing ID: 127977673 at ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more information
Huffy Bicycle for Sale - $55. This bicycle is a 
Huffy, made in the U.S.A. This bike is in ter -
rific shape and ready to ride. Give it a go, start 
having fun. This bicycle has been in storage 
for some years. Listing ID: 127977672 at ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more information
ELECTRONICS
Crate Amp, iPod Mini, Digital Camera - I have 
several iPods I no longer use. Ipod mini blue 
- $20. Crate Amp - $40. Listing ID: 127977695 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mationPS2 and Games - PS2 and fourteen games - 
$200 or $12 a game. $30 for the Guitar Hero 3 
Legends of Rock and PS2 for $80. I have both 
controls. Listing ID: 127977694 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
2 Japanese mobile Wifi Devices - $100. These 
are two non-contract Softbank mobile devic -
es. Paid over $300 for each but just need 
the space so $100 for both of them. If you’re 
planning to get to Japan, you could not worry 
about a contract. Listing ID: 127977692 at 
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
FURNITURE
Loveseat Suede Sage Green Color - $100. 
Nothing wrong with it, just need the room. 
Has elevated feet that are in the zippered 
area under the couch. Listing ID: 127977697 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
Reduced for Quick Sale Large Dinette w/ Area 
Rug, Painting - $800. Large 8 feet table with 
four chairs and bench. Only a few months old. 
Beautiful area rug in green tan and brown. 4 x 
4 oil painting of palm tree and large succulent 
floral centerpiece. Great, paid almost $2000, 
but need to move. Listing ID: 127977698 at 
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
t
your visio n,
our missio n.
outfitters@ucsd.eduCreate custom a pparel to 
promote your student 
organiza tion with Triton 
Outfitter's new Made TO Order program!
LECTURE
NOTES
IS HIRING
NOTETAKERS
FOR SPRING ‘ 15
(STARTING 6th WEEK!)
Pick up an applicati on at
Lectu re Not es in the
Student Center
Must have 3.0 or bet ter
Applic ation & SAM PLE NO TES
 are due Wed of fi nals week
as-lecture-notes@ucsd.eduEntertainment Center - $1495. This piece of 
furniture is like new. Solid woods. Includes 
recessed lighting and glass shelves! Listing ID: 
127977700 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more informationCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 9, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
TRITONES WINTER SHOW
THE LOFT, PRICE CENTER EASTMON, MAR 09 • 8pmTahrirCAMPUS
CALENDAR
MAR 9 - MAR 152015 POWERED BY THE CHANCELLOR’S OFFICE AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guar dian
Calendar
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar @
ucsdgu ardian .orgMON3.09 WED3.11 TUE3.10
4:30pm
PHONE-A-THON - STUDENT SERVICE CENTER, 
4TH FLOOR
Come out for the phone-a-thon, which will take place 
from March 9-13 in the Office of Admissions and Relations with Schools. Current UCSD students will call newly admitted students from underrepresented and 
under-served student groups and congratulate them on 
their admission to the University!
8pm
TRITONES WINTER SHOW - THE LOFT
Fresh off their successful showing at the ICCA 
Quarterfinals and the Los Angeles A Cappella Festival Scholastic Competition, the UCSD Tritones are excited to perform their new material.11am
ART AND SOUL: PLANT A SUCCULENT - THE 
ZONE
Join the Zone as we partner with Roger's 
Community Garden for an Art & Soul event. Plant your own succulent and take it home with you! Workshops are free; all supplies and materials 
are provided. 
6:30pm
MY LIFE’S A BLUR: THE FRIEND THAT 
CHANGES YOUR LIFE - PC BALLROOM EAST
Sigma Phi Epsilon, Chi Omega, and Nu Alpha 
Kappa proudly present: Jeremy Poincenot. 
Walking across the SDSU campus, you would 
have excused 19-year-old Jeremy Poincenot if 
he had a perpetual grin on his face.Over the course of the next several months, Jeremy 
learned that he had a rare genetic condition 
called Leber's Hereditary Optic Neuropathy 
(LHON). He completely lost his central 
vision.Today, Jeremy Poincenot is touring the country talking to college students about how to overcome adversity and find new ways to 
achieve. Most of all, he's infecting people with 
his positive attitude and sense of humor. 
Everyone is welcome to come hear Jeremy 
speak. It is open to all UCSD students with a valid ID. Doors open at 6pm.
FRI3.13
10am
YOGA @ THE PLAZA - REVELLE COLLEGE 
PLAZA
Join the Outreach Coordinators for a chance to 
stretch, relax, and recharge before finals week! Extra limited yoga mats will be available on a first-come, first-serve basis - bring your own if you 
have one! Free snacks provided after the workout! 
All students welcome!
12pm
PI-MILE RUN/WALK - THE BEAR COURTYARD
The Jacobs School of Engineering is hosting a pi-mile (3.14 mile) run/walk sponsored by the Jacobs Graduate Student Council (JGSC) and the Triton Engineering Student Council (TESC), to 
benefit the San Diego Science Alliance - an 
organization that fosters K-12 science education in San Diego. Registration for the event is $10, which includes a free t-shirt and a slice of delicious pie!10am
SUN GOD FESTIVAL OPEN FORUMS - PRICE 
CENTER WEST, RED SHOE ROOM
Want to learn about the changes surrounding Sun 
God Festival this year? Curious to learn more about the Sun God planning process? Have any suggestions for increasing health and safety 
education? The Festivals team needs your help with 
how we can help enhance YOUR experience!
12pm
WIN A VIP STUDY ROOM IN THE LIBRARY - 
GEISEL LIBRARY, EAST LEARNING COMMONS
Submit an original photo of the Library (interior or 
exterior, Geisel or BLB) to LearningSpaces@ucsd.edu using the subject line "VIP Study Room.
7pm
INTERVARSITY’S LA FE - RAZA RESOURCE 
CENTRO
Join us on Tuesday nights for free dinner, great 
conversation, and discussions about faith, justice, and activism at UCSD!
SAT3.14
7:30pm
SUN3.15
2pm
LA JOLLA’S SYMPHONY AND CHORUS 
PRESENTS: HECTOR BERLIOZ’S REQUIEM - MANDEVILLE AUDITORIUM
Renewal is the nature of any requiem - "it's less an 
acknowledgment of death as it is a celebration of what comes next." This is an enormous piece and we will have nearly 300 musicians on stage to 
perform it in all its glory. Best known for its Tuba 
mirum, when the trumpets sound and the dead are called, four brass bands will crank up around the audience as 16 timpani join the orchestra and 
chorus. 75 members of the San Diego Gay Men's 
Chorus will join the regular chorus members to make this a stunning production.THU3.12
12pm
BREATHER SERIES: ARTS & CRAFTS - CCC 
ARTSPACE
Come to de-stress or take a break from work or 
school. Take home what you create, whether it is a picture frame, wooden box, canvas, etc. All supplies 
are provided! All are welcome!
12:30pm
JUSTICECORPS INFORMATION SESSION - GREEN 
TABLE RM
Interested in the Law and Social Justice? Looking for 
a hands-on, fast-paced internship? Then Justicecorps is for you! Justicecorps aims to increase access to justice for San Diegans without legal representation. 
Justicecorps members are trained to provide a wide 
range of legal information to these San Diegans and make a meaningful impact in their communities. In return, members learn about the law and life.
6pm
ST. PATRICK’S DAY CELEBRATION - MIDDLE 
EARTH LOUNGE, ERC
Take a break from studying and get a head start on 
celebrating St. Patrick's Day! Join the Outreach Coordinators for a fun night of food, crafts, & trivia surrounding this holiday! Wear some green and hope 
for some luck to come your way! All students 
welcome!
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
BRANDON  YU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 9, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
The Triton softball team returned 
home this past weekend to face off 
against California Collegiate Athletic 
Association leader and rival Sonoma 
State, hoping to recover from last 
week’s losses against Cal State Mon -
terey Bay. However, UCSD dropped 
three out of four games, losing the 
conference series to the Seawolves.
 The Tritons now hold a 16–8 re -
cord overall and are 9–7 in the CCAA, 
with sole possession of the sixth spot 
in the conference.
 Sonoma State clinched a victory in 
the series opener, shutting out UCSD 
3–0. The Seawolves’ offense got rolling 
in the fourth inning, when junior 
right-hander Hannah Duarte allowed 
three consecutive base hits to bring in 
the first two runs. A throwing error 
by UCSD brought the score to 3–0 
for the Seawolves. UCSD then sent in 
senior right-hander Mo Omori (2–1), 
who shut down the next 10 batters 
in the lineup, effectively quieting the 
Seawolves’ offense for the remainder 
of the game.
 The Tritons attempted to rally 
back in the seventh inning. Fresh -man outfielder Kendall Baker singled 
to shortstop, ending the five-inning 
no-hit streak. Junior outfielder Taylor 
Abeyta followed up with another base 
hit, but the Seawolves caught Baker at 
second base to notch the first out of 
the inning. Sonoma State sophomore 
pitcher Amanda Llerena then sent the 
next two batters out swinging, ending 
the Tritons’ rally and the game.
 The Seawolves struck first again in 
game two — junior shortstop Ancia Purdy scored the first run in the first 
inning off a ground out by junior 
second baseman Holli Brown. The Tri -
tons finally found some offense in the 
second inning. With the bases loaded, 
freshman second baseman Kendall 
Woken hit a ground out to shortstop 
that sent freshman right-fielder Kelsi 
Maday home, while sophomore first 
baseman Emma Schneider subse -SOFTBALL
Tritons Lose at Home to Sonoma State
UCSD avoids series sweep by taking game four after losing the three first games.
B Y Ka tie Potts
Contributing writer
See SOFTBALL , page 9PHOTO BY JESUS PACHECO/ GUARDIAN FILEFENCING
Three Fencers Take Bronze
Tritons perform well overall at NCAA West Regionals.
The UCSD fencing team played 
host to the NCAA West Regional, 
where three of the Triton fencers 
earned podium finishes this past 
Saturday at RIMAC Arena. Alongside 
the Tritons, the top fencers from West 
Coast schools — Air Force Academy, 
Caltech and Stanford University — 
competed, as well, in hopes of gaining 
a ticket for the upcoming NCAA 
championships. 
This was the second time in the 
past three seasons that UCSD hosted 
the regionals competition, last hosting 
it in 2013. 
The 2014 NCAA West Regionals 
were held at Caltech last year, when 
now-sophomore Travis Tibbits and 
now-senior epeeist Adam Campbell-
Kruger were able to win third place in 
the men’s sabre and epee, respectively. 
Tibbits qualified to represent UCSD in 
the NCAA championships. This year, 
the Tritons hoped for more podium 
positions, as they competed in all 
epee, foil and sabre competitions. They 
faced grueling competition, including 
Olympian foilist and national cham -
pion Alex Massialas of Stanford and Air Force All-American senior foilist 
Alex Chiang.
For the men’s epee, sophomore 
epeeist Sean Callaghan placed third, as 
he compiled an 8–2 record in the pool 
action and 9–3 overall. Sophomore 
epeeist Benjamin Riviere of Stanford 
placed first and junior epeeist James 
Salem of Air Force Academy placed 
second overall.
The men’s foil action also had an 
extremely competitive lineup, result -
ing in some of the best action. Mas -
sialas ended up taking the gold, while 
Chiang won the silver. UCSD’s very 
own freshman foilist David Hadler 
finished with the bronze. Hadler has 
had a tremendous season and proved 
worthy of his No. 13 junior world 
ranking. He went 12–2 in his bouts, 
only losing to Massialas and Chiang. 
In the men’s sabre, Air Force 
Academy secured the gold and silver 
positions with junior sabrist Ryan 
Redhead and senior sabrist Emiliano 
Kaptain, and the bronze position was 
claimed by Stanford’s junior sabrist 
David Beam. Junior sabrist Drew 
Dickinson was the top placer for the 
Tritons, finishing in fifth. B Y  GURKIRA T SINGH
staff writer             
See FENCING , page 9
First Round
FailureM. Golf
M. Tennis
W. Tennis
Swim/Dive
W. Water Polo     3/9
     3/10
     3/10
     3/11
     3/12AT San Diego Classic
VS West Florida
VS West Florida
AT NCAA Championships 
VS Cal State Northridge
UPCOMING
UCSD
GAMES
PHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE / GUARDIAN PHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE / GUARDIAN FILE
Cal State San Bernardino brutally snapped 
UCSD’s seven-game win streak in the 
first round of the California Collegiate 
Athletic Association postseason tournament 
in Stockton, California. The fourth-seeded 
Tritons ended their season on a devastating 
69–58 loss to their fifth-seeded opponent and 
conclude with an 18–10 record in conference. 
“I thought that today’s game was a lot like 
our first two games with them, which we 
split, ” UCSD head coach Heidi VanDerveer 
told the UCSD Athletics Department. “I 
thought it was very physical, very intense. 
Every possession counted, and they made 
more plays than we did. I think they are 
bigger at every position. ”
UCSD got off to a hot start, with 
sophomore guard Haley Anderson and senior 
guard Stephanie Y ano each sinking a three-
pointer to take a 6–0 lead. The Tritons took 
their biggest lead of the game when junior 
forward Farrah Shokoor made a layup with 
11:28 left in the first half to take a 16–9 
advantage. However, UCSD subsequently 
allowed an 8–0 Cal State San Bernardino run 
in three minutes and relinquished the lead. 
The two teams went back and forth for 
the rest of the half. Sophomore guard Beth 
Mounier hit a three to put the Tritons ahead 
32–30 with 10 seconds left in the half, and 
Shokoor blocked the Coyotes’ last three-point 
attempt as UCSD took the two-point lead into 
halftime.   
The tide turned in favor of Cal State San 
Bernardino in the second half. Helped by a 
13–4 run, it grabbed a 54–47 lead with 10:19 
left. UCSD did answer with a 9–2 run, tying 
up the game at 56 when Mounier scored a 
layup with only 5:48 remaining in the game. 
However, the Tritons could not get anything 
else going in the final minutes of the match, 
and San Bernardino finished on a 13–2 run 
to clinch the win and a spot in the conference 
semifinal against Cal State Dominguez Hills, 
the CCAA ’s top-seeded team. 
“I thought we got good shots, [but] we 
didn’t make enough of them, ” VanDerveer 
said. “Sometimes we got a little rushed from 
the defensive philosophy that they played, and 
then we didn’t get enough stops and rebounds 
on the other end.
While Cal State San Bernardino improved 
its shooting over the game from 43 percent 
(13–30) in the first half up to 54 percent 
(13–24) in the second, the Tritons went the 
opposite way, going from 50 percent (13–26) 
down to only 34 percent (11–32) shooting in 
the second half. Cal State San Bernardino also 
outrebounded the Tritons 38–29 and netted 
14 of its 15 free throws. UCSD was just five 
for nine from the line.
“I thought it was going to be a hard match-up for us, ” Shokoor said to the UCSD 
Athletic Department. “We don’t physically 
match up. We don’t [usually] need to box 
other people out as much because we’re 
bigger and can rebound over them, but this 
team, you really need to get a body in. ”
In the last game of her season, all-CCAA 
first-team Shokoor had 11 points and a game-
high 14 rebounds, good for her 15th double-
double of the season. She also had four 
assists, three steals and two blocks. Mounier 
was the only other Triton in double-figures, 
with 11 points. Senior forward McKennan 
Bertsch, senior guard Miranda Seto (who 
both received all-CCAA teams honorable The UCSD men’s basketball team’s 
season came to an end Thursday 
night as the fifth-seeded Tritons were 
defeated 61–46 by fourth-seeded Cal State 
Stanislaus (14–8) in a first-round matchup of 
the California Collegiate Athletic Association 
postseason tournament. 
In its first two regular season meetings 
against Cal State Stanislaus, UCSD struggled 
to shoot the ball, converting a dismal 36 
percent of its shots. Thursday’s game was no 
different as the Tritons were again cold from the 
field, making only 33 percent of their shots.
Only one Triton — junior forward Drew 
Dyer — finished in double-digits scoring. Dyer 
led the team with 10 points and eight rebounds. 
He also had three assists.“Probably not our best performance and, 
unfortunately, the timing of that is not ideal, ” 
UCSD head coach Eric Olen told the UCSD 
Athletics Department. “[Cal State Stanislaus] 
deserves a lot of credit for that; they’re a really 
good team.
Junior guard Hunter Walker had a season-
low three points on 1–8 shooting. Coming into 
the game, Walker led the Tritons in scoring, 
averaging 12.6 points a game. He did, however, 
grab seven off the board.   
Despite the tough shooting night, UCSD 
had the slight advantage in the first half, 
largely due to its three-point shooting. The 
Tritons went 4–9 from beyond the arc in the 
first half and were able to take their largest 
lead of the night at six points. Later, UCSD 
took a one-point 25–24 lead going into 
intermission. 
Cal State Stanislaus wasted no time after 
the break and took advantage of UCSD’s 
shooting woes to start the second act with 
an 8–2 run. The Warriors rolled with the 
momentum, following up with a 9–0 run to 
push the lead to as high as 17 points. On the 
other end, UCSD shot 1–10 from deep. 
“It just comes down to [the fact that] they 
outplayed us, ” Dyer said. “They’re a good 
team. I love my team. I thought [the] guys 
kept battling, and things didn’t go our way. 
It’s just a tough time of year to have a rough 
g a m e .”
Sophomore guard Adam Klie’s 11-game 
double-digit scoring streak came to an end 
Thursday night. He scored eight points and 
corralled four rebounds. 
In addition to the Tritons’ poor offensive 
shooting, the Warriors were able to dominate 
the paint, especially in the second half. The 
Warriors outscored the Tritons 28–16 down 
low while also holding a 38–29 advantage on 
the glass, which lead to 15 second-chance 
points for the Warriors.
“Their front court played great and really 
caused us some problems, ” Olen said. “We 
weren’t able to quite execute the things we 
wanted to do on either side of the ball really. 
We didn’t shoot it great, and we weren’t able 
to keep them out of the paint. ”
For the Tritons, the loss marked the 
second lowest point total of the season at 46. 
For Cal State Stanislaus, the win marked the 
third victory over UCSD this season and the 
Warriors’ 10th win against UCSD in the last 
11 meetings.
The Warriors were eliminated the 
following night by first-seeded Chico State. 
Second-seeded Cal Poly Pomona would 
eventually defeat Chico State in overtime for 
the 2014–15 CCAA crown. CSUSB upsets Triton women in 
opening round of postseason.Poor shooting forces an early 
playoff exit in loss to Stanislaus.
BY MARCUS THUILLIER   EDITORIAL ASSISTANT BY DANIEL SUNG   SENIOR STAFF WRITER
See W. BASKETBALL , page 9 See M. BASKETBALL , page 9