VOLUME 48, ISSUE 24  THURSDAY , JANUARY 15, 2015 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
RESTAURANT 
WEEK!
OVER 180 OF SAN DIEGO’S 
EATERIES ARE  PARTICIPATING 
IN RESTAURANT WEEK FROM 
JAN. 18 TO 24 WITH PREPARED 
MANUS OF THEIR BEST FOOD. 
CHECK OUT OUR GUIDE ON 
WHAT’S WORTH EATING.
OPENING  THE  DOORS
SWEEPING  SWIMMERSUCSD  Medical Welcomes DACA
swim/dive's   perfect  weekendOpinion,  P age   4
sports,  P age  12
THURSDAY
H 73 L 46FRIDAY
H 73 L 52
SATURDAY
H 75 L 54SUNDAY
H 72 L 48
FORECAST
VERBATIM
MANHATTAN WASN’T REALLY 
TURNED INTO A GIANT, MAXI -
MUM SECURITY PRISON, BUT 
BY LOOKING AT THE STATISTICS 
OF THE TIME, IT CERTAINLY 
SEEMED LIKE THE INMATES 
WERE RUNNING THE ASYLUM.”
- Jordan Utley-Thomson
GUARDIAN WATCH
OPINION , PAGE 4
INSIDE
UCSD MEDICAL CENTER  .3
ADMISSIONS  ................... 4
ALBUM REVIEW  ............... 9
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU  ..10
FENCING  ....................... 12“WEEKEND,  P AGE  6
PHOTO BY CORY WONGUC SYSTEM
Number Of  Undergraduate 
Applications Continues To Rise
The University of California Office of the 
President released statistics on Jan. 12 about the 
2015–16 UC applications, which show an increase 
in freshmen and transfer applicants. The numbers 
also illustrate a continuing trend toward more 
Asians, African-Americans and Latinos applying, 
while Caucasians are making up a smaller portion 
of the applicant pool.
UCSD received 94,280 applications this year, up 
5.3 percent from last year. This increase is mostly 
due to freshmen applications, which were up by 
4,647 from last year, totaling 70,532. UCSD has 
seen between roughly 4,000 and 7,000 more appli -
cations every year since 2000.
UCSD saw 16,196 transfer applications this 
year, 0.6 percent more than last year’s 16,100. The 
number of applying transfers has doubled since 
2002.
While the number of applications has increased, 
the admission rate for UCSD has declined from 38 
percent in 2010 to 33 percent in 2014. However, the 
total number of admitted students has been climb -ing, from 11,000 in the year 2000 to 24,500 in 2014, 
a trend consistent across UC campuses.
UCOP media specialist Brooke Converse elabo -
rated the University of California system’s plans to 
enroll more students in the future.
“During the economic crisis we increased 
enrollment rather than cutting it, and we are 
currently educating 7,000 students for whom we 
receive no state funding, ” Converse told the UCSD 
Guardian. “We would like to increase enrollment 
further but need more money to do so. The tuition 
and financial aid plan passed in November calls for 
an increase in enrollment of 5,000 students over 
five years, but that increase is contingent on an 
increase in funding. ”
This year, there are a larger number of African-
American, Asian-American, and Latino/Chicano 
students applying to the UC system. African-
American freshmen applicants from California had 
a 10.6-percent increase since last year, the largest 
proportionally of all ethnic groups, while in-state 
freshmen Latinos/Chicanos had the largest total   B y  Kyle  Somers    Associate A&E Editor 
Residents of the La Jolla Cove are 
and neighborhood business owners 
affected by the odor of sea lion feces 
filed a lawsuit last January against 
the city of San Diego, demanding 
that city officials find a solution to 
the smell. Norm Blumenthal, the 
attorney representing the La Jolla 
locals, told the San Diego Union-
Tribune that a trial date for the 
lawsuit has been set for May 1.
The locals, who have issued 
several complaints about the 
stench of sea lion feces over the 
past few years, formed a nonprofit 
organization called Citizens for Odor Nuisance Abatement in late 
2013. The following January, the 
group took legal action against the 
city of San Diego to urge city officials 
to look for a way to neutralize the 
odor. However, San Diego City 
Attorney Jan Goldsmith is planning 
to file a motion to dismiss the suit 
this month. 
Goldsmith’s communications 
director Gerry Braun told the UCSD 
Guardian that, while city officials 
are responsible for resolving issues 
like this, members of the city council 
should be able to exercise their 
own judgment as representatives of 
the citizens of San Diego without 
interference.
“The plaintiffs in this case want 
to substitute their judgment for that of our elected officials and, by filing 
a lawsuit, are asking a judge to force 
the city to do something, ” Braun 
said. “The City Attorney’s Office is 
opposed to a judge ordering the city 
to do anything, as the city has no 
legal obligation to change nature. ”
When Citizens for Odor 
Nuisance Abatement was first 
founded, sea lions were not the only 
animals who persistently defecated 
on the bluffs. The smell that 
enveloped La Jolla Cove was due to a 
combination of bird droppings and 
feces from the marine mammals. 
The city first implemented use of 
a microbial solution manufactured 
by Blue Eagle Products that utilizes Gov. Brown
Increases
University 
FundingCALIFORNIA
Tuition increases will 
continue in spite of Brown 
allocating 1.6 percent more of 
his budget to the UC system.
B Y  Zev Hurwitz
Senior Staff Writer
See  BUDGET , page 3California’s two university 
systems will see increased funding 
in 2015–16 based on the $164.7 
billion budget Gov. Jerry Brown 
released on Jan. 9.
The governor’s proposed plan 
for the upcoming fiscal year would 
provide an additional nearly 
$120 million to the University of 
California system’s general fund 
with a catch: To receive the funding, 
the UC system would need to find 
a way to freeze tuition hikes for the 
upcoming year.
“With savings achieved through 
new cost reductions and current 
efficiency efforts, in combination 
with the General Fund increases, 
the administration expects the 
universities to maintain current 
tuition and fee levels, ” the budget 
reads.
The proposed budget represents 
an increase of 1.6 percent over 
the last fiscal year for the UC 
system and would bring the total 
operating budget to roughly $7.26 
billion — $762 of which is “directly 
attributable” to the tax increases of 
the voter-approved 2012 Proposition 
30.
In addition to the proposed 
increases to the UC system, 
Brown’s budget, which comes less 
than a week after the governor 
was sworn in for a record fourth 
term in Sacramento, would 
provide increases for California 
State University campuses and the 
California Community Colleges. 
Brown’s budget proposal also 
called for the UC system to cap 
out-of-state enrollments and set 
up a stability committee to prevent 
further budget issues. 
“ All cost containment strategies 
must be explored before asking 
California families to pay even 
more for tuition, ” Brown said in a 
statement on the governor’s official 
website Jan. 9. 
At the UC Board of Regents 
meeting in November, the regents 
voted to authorize annual 5-percent 
tuition increases for the next five 
years unless state funding levels 
were increased. 
UC President Janet Napolitano 
released a statement Friday, Jan. 
9 indicating that the governor’s 
proposed funding to the UC system 
would be insufficient to stave off 
the hikes. 
“While we are disappointed the 
governor did not include sufficient 
revenue to expand enrollment of 
California students and re-invest in 
academic quality at the university, ” 
Napolitano said. “We are hopeful 
that continued discussions with the     San Diego
Court Sets Trial Date for Sea Lion Odor Lawsuit
Citizens for Odor Nuisance Abatement took legal action against the City of San Diego last year.  
B Y   Kriti Sarin
Editorial AssistantSee  APPLICATIONS , page 3
See  SEA LIONS , page 3Total Freshmen:  
78,084 (83%)
ToTal Transfers : 
16,196 (17%){
94,280
 TOTAL APPLICANTS
Aver Age   g P A
Freshman: 3.80
Transfer: 3.37M eA n  SA T   Score
Reading(599) 
Math(647)  
Writing(613)
 
  
                           Asian American 39.5%
                  Chicano/Latino 27.0%
             White 24.0%
  African American 5.1%
Other 4.5%Freshmen & Transfers
from California5.3%
FROM 2014
UCSD 2015 Admission Statistics
Design By // Allison Kubo & Sherman Aline2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 13, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG N EWS
AVERAGE CAT By Christina Carlson
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and 
Thursdays during the academic year by UCSD students 
and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this 
newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, 
without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2014, all 
rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible 
for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The 
views expressed herein do not necessarily represent 
the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of 
California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian 
is funded by advertising. Porcupines vs. Hedgehogs.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035
Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Audrey Sechrest
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Aleksandra Konstantinovic
Andrew E. Huang  
Taylor Sanderson
Tina Butoiu
Charu Mehra
Brandon Yu
John Story
Teiko Yakobson
Jacqueline Kim
Kyle Somers
Nilu Karimi
Taylor Sanderson
Siddharth Atre
Joselynn Ordaz
Elyse Yang
Annie Liu
Rosina Garcia
Laura Chow
Vincent PhamEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
  
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Social Media Coordinator
Training and Development
Page Layout
Sherman Aline, Allison Kubo, Sidney Gao
Copy Readers
Andrew Chao, Caroline Lee, Micaela Stone
Editorial Assistants
Shelby Newallis, Jennifer Grundman, Kriti Sarin, 
Karly Nisson, Sasha Pollock, Mario Attie, 
#OMG 
#LIKE US
#FOLLOW US
@ucsdguar dian
Registration for WINTER Qtr is NOW open!
Register online at 
as.ucsd.edu/saferides
A.S. Safe Rides allows register ed un dergradua te 
studen ts to  get 3  FREE rides per quarter.
Studen ts must register  at lea st 24 hours
prio r to their first ride.  A.S. Safe Rides 
asucsd asucsdEight San Diego County hospi -
tals, including the UCSD Medical 
Center, were among the 271 medi -
cal centers penalized in Dec. 2014 
by the United States Centers for 
Medicare and Medicaid Services 
for having Hospital-Acquired 
Condition scores of seven or higher 
in 2013. Other local hospitals cited 
for their HAC scores, a ranking of 
the degree of patient safety events 
that occur within the hospital set -
ting, include Scripps Memorial 
Encinitas, Scripps Mercy, Scripps 
Green, Sharp Memorial, Sharp 
Coronado, Palomar and Pomerado.
Over 3,000 medical facilities 
throughout the nation were rated 
on the 10-point scale, with 10 being 
the worst possible score. The scores 
received were weighted between two 
domains, within which the program 
analyzed data collected on avoidable 
hospital errors. The first domain 
measures patient safety indicators, such as bed sores, falls and collapsed 
lungs. The second measures stan -
dard infection ratios associated with 
common medical procedures, such 
as central line, associated blood -
stream infections and catheter-relat -
ed urinary tract infections. 
The scores were administered 
by the HAC Reduction Program, 
which was established by the Patient 
Protection and Affordable Care Act 
of 2010. Starting in the fiscal year of 
2015, which began on October 2014 
and lasts through September 2015, 
the secretary of the Department of 
Health and Human Services will 
mandate a 1-percent decrease in 
Medicare payments to the hospi -
tals that place among those with 
the highest HAC scores received 
through the program. 
The penalties total an estimat -
ed $373 million, and one in seven 
hospitals within the nation will be 
affected. 
The fines were imposed days 
after the federal government 
announced that, nationally, error 
rates had dropped by 17 percent between 2010 and 2013. However, 
a report issued recently by the 
United States Agency for Healthcare 
Research and Quality estimates that 
there were 3.9 million preventable 
hospital incidents in 2013. The cost 
of preventable adverse events for 
adults was estimated by the same 
report to be $22 billion. 
As the measure is meant to pro -
vide an incentive for hospitals to 
implement new methods that will 
improve overall patient care, the 
fines being posed now are more 
severe than they have been in the 
past.
“In the past, Medicare refused 
to pay for certain hospital stays 
that resulted from errors, but this 
step is more draconian — to reduce 
overall payments for all cases due to 
high rates of error, ” Director of the 
Market and Policy Program at the 
California Healthcare Foundation 
Maribeth Shannon told the UCSD 
Guardian. “It is a big revenue hit to 
hospitals that are heavily dependent 
on Medicare funding. ”
As a result of the scores and loss of reimbursements, hospitals in San 
Diego County have improved and 
adopted new methods to enhance 
patient care.
Scripps Health, a private, non -
profit, integrated health care sys -
tem, had the most hospitals fined 
within the county. The organiza -
tion expects to lose $1.9 billion in 
Medicare reimbursements. Since the 
preliminary fines were announced 
in June, Chief Medical Officer of 
Scripps Health Dr. James LaBelle 
told the San Diego Union-Tribune 
that the hospital has improved 
its infection-control regimen by 
increasing cleaning processes for 
certain catheter and intravenous 
procedures.  
The penalties could affect the 
overall fiscal stability of hospitals 
that were heavily fined, especially 
those already in the negative operat -
ing margins. However, it is unlikely 
that patient access to hospitals will 
be limited as a result.UCSD Medical Center Penalized For Poor Safety ScoreSCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY   
B Y   Br ynna Bol t
staff writer
BR YNNA BOL T    BBOLT@ucsd.edu readers can contact
ucsdguardian.orgCHECK OUT OUR WEBSITE ONLINEbacteria that naturally consume the 
fecal matter.
Bill Harris, who is a member of 
the San Diego Parks and Recreation 
Department, told the Guardian that 
while the microbial solution is still a 
viable option to eradicate the smell, 
the department is considering other 
options and has not yet arrived at a 
decision.
“We have found the Blue Eagle microbial spray to be an effective 
nonharmful solution to guano buildup 
and odor reduction, though it does 
require frequent reapplication to 
remain so, ” Harris said. “It is possible 
that we will identify some combination 
of methods, including the microbial 
spray, as the most permanently 
effective choice moving forward. ”
Harris added that handling this 
problem in a manner that is not 
detrimental to the local marine life is of 
utmost importance to city leadership.“San Diego’s coastline and the 
marine life that inhabit our shoreline 
and coastal waterways help to define 
our civic and personal identities, ” 
Harris said. “We have established 
strong protections for both and 
are committed to living up to our 
responsibilities as good stewards of the 
environment. ”growth over last year, with 839 more 
applications submitted. 
Californian freshmen applicants 
who identify as Asian-American 
sent in 210 more applications than 
last year, but this is a slower growth 
rate compared to other ethnic 
groups. In-state Caucasians have 
submitted 110 fewer applications than last year, contributing to the 
fastest decline out of the demo -
graphic groups applying to UCSD.
For transfers from California 
community colleges, application 
demographic proportions have stag -
nated relative to last year, which 
coincides with a small increase in 
total transfer application numbers 
relative to freshmen applications 
received by UCSD. The largest increase for transfers 
was among international students 
who saw a 5-percent increase in 
applications over last year, following 
a continuing trend toward a larger 
portion of international students in 
the transfer applicant pool.N EWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 15, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
Looking for the 
New Business 
Column?
Now posted every Wednesday 
night, after the A.S. Council 
meeting, online.
International Students Comprise Largest Proportion Of  Transfer Applicants
▶ APPLICATIONS,  from page 1
Kyle Somers    KSomers@ucsd.edu readers can contact
governor and the legislature will 
yield a budget that maintains the 
access, affordability and excellence 
for which the University of 
California [system] is renowned. ” 
The proposed budget can still 
be modified by the state legislature 
before a final vote. Brown’s budget is 
one of several proposed alternatives to the UC Regents’ tuition increase 
plan. Speaker of the California State 
Assembly Toni Atkins proposed an 
alternative funding plan last year that 
would raise tuition on out-of-state 
students only. Meanwhile, several 
Senate Democrats have cosponsored 
a bill that would eliminate the 
Middle Class Scholarship program 
to offset the need for higher tuition. 
No plan from the legislature has yet been finalized.
The UC Regents will meet again 
next month at UC San Francisco’s 
Mission Bay campus where the 
regents’ finance committee is 
scheduled to discuss the governor’s 
proposed budget in an open session 
on Jan. 22.Budget May Be Altered By The State Legislature Before It Officially Passes
▶ BUDGET,  from page 1
Zev Hurwitz    zhurwitz@ucsd.edu readers can contact
City Parks And Recreation Most Concerned With Safety Of  Marine Life
▶ SEA LIONS,  from page 1
Kriti Sarin    KSaRIN@ucsd.edu readers can contact
FOLLOW US ON TWITTER
@UCSDGUARDIAN4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 15, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CHARU  MEHRA
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
We Are in 
the Midst of  
a Safety 
Renaissance
Chances are, even if you 
have zero interest in poli -
tics, you’ve heard and are 
somewhat interested in the recent 
backlash over the supposed exces -
sive policing across the nation. Y ou 
may not have been protesting out 
on Library Walk about a month ago 
with duct tape over your mouth, 
but you’re one of many students 
who believe that enough is enough. 
The longer this “broken windows” 
policing stays, the shorter it takes 
to realize we may just be living in a 
police state.
But let’s step back a moment. 
The year is 1992. In California, our 
violent crime rate reaches a peak 
of 1,120 per 100,000 residents. In 
Los Angeles, the city is ravaged 
over a period of five days by riots 
that make the Ferguson unrest look 
like a walk in the park. By the end 
of the year, LA County has experi -
enced 2,589 murders. Over on the 
east coast, New Y ork City finally 
resembles what the 1981 dysto -
pian thriller Escape From New 
Y ork envisioned. Well, Manhattan 
wasn’t REALLY turned into a giant 
maximum-security prison, but by 
looking at the statistics of the time, 
it certainly seemed like the inmates 
were running the asylum.
NYC is now one of the safest 
cities in America, and L.A. isn’t too 
shabby either. In fact, the country 
as a whole has seen crime rates 
plunge to levels not seen since 
the 1960s. We’re currently going 
through a renaissance of sorts when 
it comes to safety — so much that 
people our age are bucking the 
trend toward suburban living and 
instead staying in the city.
A generation ago, this was a 
dangerous idea, and I fear a return 
to those so-called “bad old days. ” 
Many of us weren’t even born yet: 
Falling crime rates are all we have 
ever known, but they are not to 
take for granted. After the end of 
World War II, a similar decrease 
in crime occurred until a large 
uptick in the late 1960s. Law and 
order politicians blasted the Earl 
Warren-led Supreme Court for its 
expansion of civil liberties, citing a 
“handcuffing of the police. ”
The expanded prison popula -
tions and tougher policing of the 
last 25 years has worried today’s 
Earl Warrens, claiming that an 
unprecedented erosion of civil liber -
ties has taken place. However, while 
correlation is not causation, we 
need to be honest with ourselves in 
recognizing that our present safety 
may partly be because of a more 
aggressive criminal justice system.
As of now, NYC Mayor Bill de 
Blasio is the poster boy for reform, 
but in his short time, he’s done 
more to divide his city than unite 
it. In any place, it’s going to take a 
tough son of a bitch to ensure the 
balance between civil liberties and 
security — someone you wouldn’t 
expect to make the effort, some -
one impossible to accuse of being 
“anti-police. ” After all, it took the 
anti-communist Richard Nixon to 
go to China, Democrat Bill Clinton 
to reform welfare and Stalwart 
Chester Arthur to end the very 
same spoils system of which he 
himself was a product.Aleksandra Konstantinovic
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Andrew E. Huang
MANAGING EDITOR
Taylor Sanderson
MANAGING EDITOR  
Charu Mehra
OPINION EDITOR
Tina Butoiu
NEWS EDITOR
Kriti Sarin
EDITORIAL ASSISTANT
The UCSD Guardian is published twice weekly at the 
University of California at San Diego. Contents © 2014. 
Views expressed herein represent the majority vote of the edi -
torial board and are not necessarily those of the UC Board of 
Regents, the ASUCSD or the members of the Guardian staff. EDITORIAL  BOARD
No Place Like UCSD
With 94,200 freshmen and transfer 
applications for 2015 Fall 
Quarter, UCSD claimed the third 
highest spot among University of California 
schools for number of applications. Cue 
the never-ending jokes about our perpetual 
role playing catch up to UC Berkeley and 
UCLA. 
Still, with a 6.4-percent rise in freshmen 
applications and 2.1-percent rise in transfer 
applications, it’s apparent that UCSD will 
continue to grow as students recognize 
what we have to offer as a university. 
Correlating with the rise in application 
numbers will likely be a spike in UCSD’s 
selectiveness of candidates. And as we pick 
the best and the brightest, we need to shift 
our focus to what we can do to distinguish 
ourselves from other schools, including the 
perennial champs, UC Berkeley and UCLA, 
as well as how to grow and diversify our 
campus in a tenable way.
One of the most promising statistics 
from this year’s application numbers 
is the rising number of historically 
underrepresented students who have 
applied to UC schools. For the first time in 
history, one-third of California freshman 
applicants were of Latino origin, a major 
step for a state whose Latino populations 
are quickly rising. 
UCSD itself saw a 7.9-percent rise in 
applications across all minority groups. And while that still isn’t much, it’s a 
major improvement for a campus that 
has struggled in the past to attract and 
support underrepresented students in 
their education. Continuing an emphasis 
on diversity once students have arrived 
on campus is important, and spaces like 
the Black Resource Center and the Raza 
Resource Centro are essential in this 
ongoing initiative. 
It’s also perhaps time to gingerly 
approach the subject of Division-I athletics 
once again, keeping in mind that one of 
the most striking differences between 
us and the top two UC schools is not 
academics but a robust sports program. 
Apart from just unifying the school under a 
general sense of sportsmanship, Division-I 
athletics could attract alumni attention 
and donations, as well as greater national 
attention. All of these phenomena translate 
into the prestige seen at our sister UC 
schools.
UCSD’s application numbers will likely 
climb no matter the presence (or lack 
thereof) of Division-I sports. Our university 
is an internationally acclaimed school 
with all kinds of departmental awards 
in everything from the hard sciences to 
performing arts. Third place or not, UCSD 
is overall a prestigious destination for a UCSD received a record number of  applications this year, but as more students 
enroll, overcrowding will become an ever-present problem on our campus.EDITORIALS
ILLUSTRATION BY ANNIE LIU
Earlier this month, the Association of 
American Medical Colleges added UCSD’s 
School of Medicine to its list of medical 
schools that are willing to consider applicants 
with a Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals 
status. This will enable undocumented students 
who immigrated to the U.S. as minors to build 
a viable future for themselves. 
Since these individuals were children when 
their families immigrated, they usually had 
no choice but to adhere to their families’ deci -
sions and therefore should not have to suffer 
the consequences of a law they did not con -
sciously break. DACA allows these students to 
establish a life for themselves in what is now 
their home country. Deporting these individu -
als would essentially force them to live in an 
entirely foreign land since they immigrated 
before they could even develop any strong 
ties to their place of birth. DACA students are 
just as “ American” as any other students; the 
only thing that differentiates them is how they 
arrived to the U.S.
Individuals will hardly ever attempt to 
pursue their innate desires if they believe they cannot surpass the obstacles standing in 
their way. Hence, they will stick to the options 
society allows them to pursue. Even if some 
students wish to obtain higher degrees of 
education and work in more profitable fields, 
many are discouraged by financial and legal 
barriers that inhibit them from achieving their 
academic and professional goals. 
However, the AAMC has created a Fee 
Assistance Program that provides DACA 
students with the financial means to obtain 
a physician’s license. This financial support, 
along with the nonresident tuition exemptions 
granted by Assembly Bill 540, gives undocu -
mented students a real chance at achieving the 
American Dream. Providing DACA students 
the opportunity to pursue a higher educa -
tion and become qualified professionals will 
increase their presence in more selective fields. 
The idea that minorities are “lazy” and 
“welfare dependent” can be attributed to a 
lack of opportunities that other groups enjoy. 
Stereotypes reflect the values and ideologies of 
the cultures they are developed in. Hence, the 
only way to reduce their power and eventually eliminate them, is to change culture. Opening 
the doors to the medical field will inevitably 
help dismantle negative stereotypes because 
those who want to become doctors now have a 
legal and relatively affordable way of doing so. 
Positive views of minorities will be established 
because people will no longer associate “suc -
cess” with ethnic backgrounds.
As a nation that was founded on tenets of 
equality, it is imperative that students from 
diverse financial and cultural backgrounds 
receive the same opportunities as any other 
American. Historically, minorities have been 
severely underrepresented in the medical 
field. Fortunately, in the past year minority 
representation has increased as a result of the 
enrollment of more undocumented students 
with DACA status to medical programs, conse -
quently promoting diversity in the workforce. 
If institutions of higher education in other 
fields show the same enthusiasm toward stu -
dents with DACA status, society will undoubt -
edly benefit as a whole because the contribu -
tions of these individuals will no longer be sti -
fled by forces they never sought to antagonize.UCSD Medical School Opens its Doors to DACA StudentsSee ADMISSIONS,  page 5jordan  utley-thomson
jutleyth@ucsd.edguardian w a tchstudent of any major. 
And so the next logical step is 
how to manage the ever-expanding 
influx of students that will descend 
on our campus at the beginning 
of every fall quarter. Last year’s 
response was to convert single 
dorms into doubles and doubles 
into triples, thereby piling freshmen 
into rooms like sardines. It’s up to 
Housing, Dining and Hospitality 
to respond to rising application 
and admissions numbers in a more 
sustainable and far less comical 
way. 
Furthermore, a significant 
portion of the applicants this 
year, and in previous years, are biology and engineering majors 
who already face impacted classes 
and overcrowded lecture halls. 
With more of this talented bunch 
coming to study at a university 
renowned for these subjects, we 
want to make sure they have access 
to what they need to excel at their 
areas of study. In classes of over 
400 people, a single student is 
certainly not getting an abundance 
of personal guidance from his or 
her professor. And while teaching 
assistants try to make up for the 
difference, it’s difficult to build a 
connection to the professor if the 
class is watching him or her lecture 
on a screen from the next room 
over. While new lecture halls are 
currently being built, we would like to see even more spring up over the 
next few years. Equally important is 
a better utilization of the space and 
resources that we already have.
The final consideration is a UC 
systemwide problem as tuition goes 
up. With increases imminent next 
year, it’s important that we keep 
fees low so that the students who 
are eventually accepted are actually 
able to attend UCSD.
We’re thrilled that our campus is 
catching the attention of brilliant, 
young students everywhere. But 
in order to grow our student body 
sustainably, we need to ensure that 
incoming students will have access 
to facilities that aren’t a fire hazard, 
as well as the diversity and athletics 
programs still developing at UCSD.OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 15, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
JUDGING WILL TAKE PLACE ON
JANUARY 28th & 29th
Each department will be 
notified the date when
judging will take place. 
The winners will be notified by email on 
January 30th!
The first TEN departments 
who register will receive aSupport Triton Spirit Week 
by decorating your office to 
win up to $250 in prizes for your department.
FREE DECORATION KIT!
DEADLINE IS WED, JAN 21
CONTEST 20 15TRITON SPIRIT WEEK
SHOW YOUR SPIRIT UCSD!
JAN 26-JAN 30
APPLYNOW AT
as.ucsd.edu/contest
1st PRIZE- $2502nd PRIZ E- $1503rd PRIZ E- $100
Prize money to beused at UCSD Catering,
UCSD Marketplace, or at
the UCSD Bookstore.Sponsored by Associated Students,
A.S. Graphic Studio and the
Office of the Vice Chancellor of Student Affairs
CONFUSED MUSE  By Elyse Yang
Minority Resources, D-1 Athletics Are Both Considerations to Keep in Mind
▶ ADMISSIONS,  from page 4GOT ISSUES?
BE HEARD
BY YOUR PEERS!SEND YOUR 
LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGWEEKENDARTS   |   FOOD & DRINK   |   LIVING   |   FILM  &  TV   |   MUSIC   |   THINGS  TO  DO
A&E EDITOR // JACQUELINE KIM 
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // NILU KARIMI
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Restaurant Week
San Diego’s Top  7Realizations 
of  a Quasi-
European 
This winter break, I was lucky to 
have my mom, dad and sister come 
visit me in Italy. We were in the 
Tuscan countryside for Christmas, 
spent New Y ear’s in Rome and then 
enjoyed a week in Florence, my 
summertime stomping grounds. A 
couple things became very clear to 
me on this trip. One of them was 
that my role had changed on this 
family vacation from just a kid to 
an official translator. This became 
evident when I had to translate 
between two grown men: my dad 
and an Italian store clerk who was 
sincerely trying to converse with 
him, despite the language barrier. I 
translated back and forth, which was 
a bit exhausting, but it was nice to 
see them understand almost every -
thing the other was trying to say. 
I guess I must have impressed the 
clerk at the end because he compli -
mented me on my Italian and tried 
setting me up with his nephew, a 
true sign of a job well done. 
The other thing that became 
painfully clear to me was that, even 
though I have my “permesso di 
soggiorno” (resident’s permit) and 
year-long Italian visa, I am not a 
European. It’s kind of a weird thing 
because, after living here for eight 
months, I feel more European than 
American. Unfortunately, what I 
“felt like” didn’t translate to legal 
documentation when I was trying 
to get a student discount rate ticket 
to the Colosseum, and I proudly 
ordered three regular tickets for my 
family and one European student 
ticket for myself. The cranky man 
behind the window asked for my 
EU card, so I showed him my resi -
dent’s permit and European univer -
sity student card to which he quickly 
glanced down and informed me that 
it’s not valid because I’m not actu -
ally European. I don’t know what 
it was about hearing those words 
that made me angry. It wasn’t about 
not getting a discounted rate; it was 
his blatant way of saying it. Maybe 
it’s because I am in an immersion 
program and have spent so much 
time learning the culture, language 
and way of life here that it’s a bit 
off-putting when you realize that no 
matter what you are still a foreigner 
and will be treated as such. It’s defi -
nitely an eye-opening experience 
to be treated like an outsider in a 
country that you feel like you are a 
part of, even in the most trivial of 
situations, like buying a ticket for 
the Colosseum. 
Living in another country has 
taught me to be more reflective 
about cultural differences and that 
one of the most important reasons 
for traveling is to force yourself to 
adapt to a new environment. Not 
being comfortable all the time makes 
your mode of thinking intrinsically 
more open. Being abroad challenges 
you to deal with the constant mix of 
emotions — of being happy and sad 
about being far away from home — 
and forces you to realize that, even 
though you may be missing out on 
things back home, there’s nowhere 
else in the world that feels more 
right  than where you are right now. 
Shelb y New allis   SNEWALLI@ucsd.eduVINO  AND  VISASFor an event that was first pieced together for the press in the hustle and bustle of the 1992 Democratic Na -
tional Convention — hey, news reporters have to eat, too, you know — Restaurant Week has come a long 
way. What started out as a common ground lunch spread metastasized over time into starters, lunch, dinner 
and dessert. From New York City to Kansas City, Restaurant Week boasts a startlingly high participation 
rate. Each establishment prepares its prix fixe menu twice a year (September and January) and lets the food 
speak for itself. Fortunately for us, San Diego has been partaking in this event for the past 10 years and is 
well-versed in the goings-on. Needless to say, there are a whopping 180 participating restaurants right un -
der our noses, with 24 here in La Jolla, so here’s a guide to help you make the right meal decision.
Rated as the best new restau -
rant by San Diego Magazine, this 
classy eatery presents delicious 
gourmet pizzas with house-made 
ingredients. During Restaurant 
Week, you will be able to savor a 
three-course meal for $20, with 
an opportunity to build your own 
individual pizza for the entree! 
The fennel sausage and cremini 
mushrooms are recommended 
among the choices of toppings.Blue Ribbon 
Artisan Pizzeria
- Yulin Liu
Staff WriterDraft Republic is a novice restaurant that opened 
last November just across the street from Westfield 
Shoppingtown UTC. This is a truly San Diego-esque 
gastropub, well-equipped for your quality weekend 
night: a “stick to your ribs” menu, table football, 
pool and Ping-Pong tables, 14 big-screen TVs and a 
selection of 36 beers on tap.
For Restaurant Week, the Draft Republic has 
prepared a $20 lunch and dinner menu. Customers 
choose one out of three dishes from each of the three 
menu sections. First course, second course and des -
sert sections represent a real fusion of cuisines. On 
the special Restaurant Week menu, one can find 
both typical gastropub items such as a burger with 
hand-cut fries and Stoned Fish Plus Chips, as well 
as more authentic dishes such as Moroccan-spiced 
lamb corn dogs or Tuna Tataki (sliced Japanese-style 
tuna with crispy wonton and guacamole).
Affordable, conveniently located and fun, Draft 
Republic will be a nice choice for your Friday night. 
- Olga Golubkova
Staff Writer
Draft Republic
*UCSD
*PHOTO BY HYE SOO KIM / GUARDIAN
**
PHOTO BY KRITI SARIN/GUARDIAN
Design by Joselynn OrdazWEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 15, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
Gorgeous beachside location, magical out -
door seating, fantastic food for any meal of 
the day — Brockton Villa is the iconic La Jolla 
Shores restaurant. While still pricey at $35, the 
Restaurant Week dinner deal is definitely worth 
the splurge (the lunch deal is a more manage -
able $15). Don’t you dare skip out on its seafood, 
which will most definitely be seasoned to perfec -
tion. And as for dessert, Brockton Villa can do 
absolutely no wrong.Brockton Villa
- Rachel Huang
Senior Staff Writer
Puesto’s Mexican street style takes on the classy Restaurant Week circuit with a $20 dinner and $15 lunch deal. Anything with crispy, melted cheese on it will send your taste buds into an instant state of euphoria. With that in mind, its numerous vegetarian options are equally meat-lover-friendly; you won’t be able to tell the difference — everything just melts deliciously in your mouth. And be sure to ask for extra salsa — that stuff is amazing. Puesto La Jolla
- Rachel Huang
Senior Staff Writer
Located in downtown La Jolla, 
Whisknladle offers customers farm-fresh 
American cuisine. The menu is seasonal 
and constantly changing, offering dishes 
based on what fruits and vegetables are 
currently available. During Restaurant 
Week at Whisknladle, you aren’t limited 
to a prix fixe menu. Instead, for $50, you 
can pick any appetizer, entree and des -
sert off of the regular dinner menu, thus 
allowing a truly authentic experience. Whisknladle
- Monica McGill
Staff Writer
The Red Door Restaurant is San Diego’s best-kept secret. 
The American family-owned restaurant uses only organic 
home-produced ingredients for its food. While the price is 
high, the atmosphere will make you feel at home. Get the 
Restaurant Week lunch special for only $15. The vegetarian 
burger, pork belly and fish tacos are to die for! The Luscious 
Truffles will complete your gourmet experience and will 
keep you coming back to the door.The Red Door Restaurant & Wine Bar
- Ridho Utama
Contributing Writer
Located within Balboa Park’s mul -
titude of museums, gardens and walk -
ing trails, The Prado is one of San 
Diego’s most desirable dining options. 
Its $15 Restaurant Week lunch menu 
includes, but is not limited to, a unique 
sweet potato and ginger soup, veg -
etable risotto and a chocolate-hazel -
nut mousse bar, all of which you can 
munch on inside or outside on the 
patio, which overlooks both a cas -
cading tile fountain and a historical 
wishing well. Doesn’t stray too far 
from the backdrop of a Hans Christian 
Andersen fairy tale, now does it?The Prado at 
Balboa Park
- Nilu Karimi
Lifestyle Editor
Nor th  SD South  SD
**
***PHOTO BY CORY WONG/ GUARDIANPHOTO BY TAYLOR SANDERSON / GUARDIAN
*
Design by Joselynn Ordaz8     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 15, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
An older sister school of UCSD, UCLA is tucked comfortably in the heart of Los Angeles with Westwood, Hollywood and Beverly Hills 
caressing the campus’ contours. The question is, are the students of Los Angeles really living that lavish SoCal dream?
La Jolla has its perks and all, but they falter in comparison to Westwood, which is a five-minute walk from the UCLA campus. This 
ain’t no apples and oranges; the Apples to Apples cards for Westwood are extravagant, lively and bustling — and then some. So for UCLA to 
be right in the middle of that clamor is nothing but a boon, especially when red carpet events can happen so close to — or directly on — the 
campus, such as the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtle premiere in Westwood and the Teen Choice Awards. After studying at UCLA for one sum -
mer session, it becomes clear how secluded UCSD is in its own bubble.
UCLA ’s residential halls are somewhat akin to UCSD’s six college system; they don’t directly affect general education requirements, but one 
go-to conversation starter the friendly UCLA student body uses is “What hall are you in?” There probably is a social hierarchy of preferences, 
but when your residential halls look like old Hollywood hotels, each with a five-star dining hall (they’re nationally ranked), then it’s like 
you’re vying for the top position when you’re already perched at the top of the pyramid.
Now, I’m not talking some crusty-ass pizza from Ocean View Terrace. Hell naw. Y’all want flatbread and some stir-fry ethnic cuisine? How 
about you add some grilled cheese and a top-notch salad bar to that, plus a selection from the large platters of dessert? All you can eat, and 
that’s just “Feast!” from UCLA ’s Rieber Hall. According to some insider info, the “au courant” — that means “hipster” in French — cafes and 
dining halls have so many more options (apparently Bruin Plate is top-notch). UCSD’s market system doesn’t exactly exist at UCLA, per se, 
but UCLA does have small cafes where you can get a modest, yet filling, meal for just one swipe.
The entire UCLA campus is divided between the residential hall area and the actual university campus, which is situated at the bottom of 
the hill. If you thought a walk from Sixth to Revelle was hell incarnate, UCLA puts this to shame. Unfortunately, there’s no shuttle system to 
boot, which makes this task all the more drudging. Now, the UCLA campus itself isn’t massive when it comes to area. The Stanford-inspired 
buildings give the impression that it’s huge, but that’s not the case when they’re placed wall-to-wall, unlike UCSD’s “place a building here and 
one there. ” 
Of course, the term “Stanford-inspired” should be taken lightly considering UCLA really does hold its own when it comes to architecture; 
there could be an entire compendium of movies and television shows that were shot on this campus. Hint: It should be mandatory that every -
one explores Melnitz Hall. This building, stowed far in the northernmost area of campus, contains a collection of movie posters and artifacts 
from UCLA alumni. It is a sight to behold. Furthermore, the design is impeccably suited to the student body, as the northern half of the cam -
pus houses the arts and humanities, while the southern complimentary possesses space for science majors. Now, let go of your frozen UCSD 
mentality, Elsa: The UCLA campus spans about five minutes in walking distance. Glorious. 
Fear not for the disparaging UCSD comments; San Diego has its own bolstering traits, such as an unmatched engineering program and a 
unique residential college system. But as a sister school to such a great university system, there is a lot to appreciate about the UCLA campus.The  Grass  is  Greener...  a t UCLA
An insider account of the UC exchange program
Written by  Christian Gella // Staff Writer
ucsdguardian.orgCHECK OUT OUR WEBSITE ONLINEWEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 15, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
In a recent interview with ABC 
News, actor Josh Brolin recommend -
ed the best way to see “Inherent Vice” 
is “to take a massive bong hit, then 
go see this movie. ” And quite frankly, 
it seems to be the best way to absorb 
Paul Thomas Anderson’s newest psy -
chedelic venture.
Anderson has always been inter -
ested in telling stories closely follow -
ing a single character’s perspective, 
starting with the relatively straight -
forward 1997’s “Boogie Nights. ” With 
his recent films, his protagonist’s per -
spective has also come to frame the 
narrative itself. 2007’s “There Will Be 
Blood” used the brooding and escalat -
ing mood of the film to echo Daniel 
Plainview’s internal state, and the dis -
jointed scenes of 2012’s “The Master” 
conveyed Freddie Quell’s alcoholism 
and discombobulation.
“Inherent Vice” continues this 
trend with a sizable leap. An adapta -
tion of Thomas Pynchon’s detective 
novel of the same name, the plot 
spins around private investigator 
Doc Sportello’s (Joaquin Phoenix) 
ambles through a drug-fueled 70s 
Los Angeles after a former girlfriend (Katherine Waterston) tips him off 
about a plot against a real estate 
mogul.
From the get-go, this film pur -
posefully tries to make its narrative 
feel like a long and confusing drug 
trip, with various scenes walking the 
fine line between reality and absurdity. 
Early on, when a TV advertisement 
suddenly talks to Doc directly, it’s 
clear that this will be a pretty convo -
luted journey.
Coupled with this feeling of drug 
inducement, the central plot is hardly 
understandable for a first-time viewer. 
After an initial setup featuring dia -
logue that seems intentionally mum -
bled, Doc’s investigation quickly gets 
lost in a maze of other players, includ -
ing undercover cops, cults and whores 
with golden hearts, all of whom 
stumble into the storyline only to 
throw the barely defined central story 
into another direction. And that’s not 
to mention the heroin-addled narrator 
(Joanna Newsom) who seems to hin -
der rather than help the viewer.
Perhaps for Pynchon fans, none 
of this incoherence is bothersome. 
The reclusive author is legendary for writing dense and cryptic rambles on 
issues from counterculture to arcane 
mathematics, laced with drug use and 
paranoia.
But even at 148 minutes, there’s 
too little time here to truly absorb 
the intricacies of the plot, so 
instead the film’s mixture of slap -
stick and dark humor takes center 
stage. Luckily in this department, 
“Inherent Vice” shines. In one 
particular scene, Joaquin Phoenix 
delivers more laughs than any 
straightforward comedy film did 
this year with a mere disgruntled 
facial expression concerning 
Detective Bigfoot’s (Josh Brolin) 
penchant for eating frozen bananas 
in a lascivious manner.
There are important themes 
glimpsed beneath the waves of noir 
talk and drug-induced humor here. 
But Anderson never quite delves 
into them, perhaps out of fear that 
it could easily devolve into a force -
ful and self-important lecture about 
the ‘70s counterculture and the lost 
tribes of California junkies. Instead, 
“Inherent Vice” floats cozily on 
the plentiful clouds of marijuana 
smoke, drifting from encounter to 
encounter. The end effect is a hilari -
ous, dark and weird psychedelic trip 
that might be confusing and with -
out major payoff but is still quite 
groovy, man.
—   Dieter Joubert 
senior staff WRITERFILM   REVIEW
Directed by  Paul Thomas Anderson
Starring   Joaquin Phoenix, Owen Wilson, Reese Witherspoon
Rated R
Release Date Jan.  9Paul Thomas Anderson’s psychedelic-noir comedy is 
as humorous as it is frustratingly incoherent.Inherent  vice
PHOTO COURTESTY OF NY POSTonw ard  and  sidew a y s
by   Joshua  radin
ALBUM  REVIEW
Release Date Jan. 6
Cleveland-based singer-songwriter’s album of love songs doesn’t 
break new ground, for better or for worse.
“If it ain’t broke, don’t fix it” is an 
adage that generally doesn’t sit well 
in the music industry. It seems that 
every few years, musicians re-invent 
themselves, crossing over from one 
genre into another. If the artist is 
fairly talented, this works out pretty 
well, since they get to show off their 
so-called “range” or “growth” or what -
ever. This was no exception last year 
when the indie music scene trashed 
their acoustic guitars to start tinker -
ing around with synthesizers and 
created music that sounded like what 
a robot would make. But it seems 
that the new year hasn’t necessarily 
ushered forth the electronica trend, as 
folk singer-songwriter Joshua Radin 
rung in 2015 with his sixth studio 
album “Onward and Sideways. ”
Compared to his 2013 release 
“Wax Wings, ” this newer full-length 
hasn’t broken any new ground in 
Radin’s discography, much less in 
indie folk music. There’s still the 
deliberately plucked guitar, Radin’s 
gentle tenor and his lyrics, which are 
still oh-so-sweet without overloaded 
with cloyingness. With hushed male 
and female vocals that evoke a sense 
of calm nostalgia, “In Y our Hands, ” 
for example, could easily be a track on 
another Radin album.
That’s not to say it’s a bad thing, 
as Radin is simply doing what he 
does best, and his best is intimate 
and charming, the kind of tunes 
that usually end up on a clever rom-
com’s soundtrack. (It makes sense, 
then, that “Onward” has a rather 
cinematic beginning, crafted in a hotel in Stockholm as a musical love 
letter.) Although, for the most part, 
the album crawls sideways rather 
than striding onward, there are quite 
a few gems that hint at Radin’s matur -
ing sound. His breathy vocals dance 
along the floating melody of “ Angels, ” 
a sonically intricate song that is more 
polished than his other works without 
feeling overproduced. Meanwhile, 
“Belong” brings a steady drumbeat 
that only enhances the catchiness of 
the tune, albeit the rhythm feels lifted 
straight from a track from his folksy 
peers, The Lumineers.
But in case there were any doubts 
that “Onward” is a repeat of his past 
work, Radin re-recorded his 2013 
song “Beautiful Day. ” Its inclusion 
doesn’t add much to “Onward, ” since 
the melody and lyrics are exactly the 
same as before — the only change is 
that it includes Sheryl Crow’s twang 
for a duet. Despite her usually domi -
nant powerhouse vocals, Crow luckily 
doesn’t overshadow Radin’s voice, but 
the track isn’t an improvement on 
what was already a charismatic, rol -
licking tune. Nevertheless, it shows 
how comfortable Radin is in his own 
skin and unintentionally proves him 
to be a much better musician when 
he sticks to what he knows. “Onward 
and Sideways” is ultimately another 
testament that Radin’s music ain’t 
broke, so he won’t fix it — and, hope -
fully, he hasn’t made any New Y ear’s 
resolutions that he will.
—   Jacqueline Kim
A&E Editor10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 15, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
CLASSIFIEDS$
Guar dian Classi/f_ieds ar e FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifieds
BIKES
Classic Vintage Raleigh Road Bike - $125. 
Terrific condition. Brooks saddle. Listing ID: 110731139 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
70s Schwinn Speedster Townie/Three 
Speed - $160. Made in USA. 55cm frame size. Rides and shifts great, new tires and tubes. Some paint scratches (adds to that awesome aged look). Price is firm. Listing ID: 110731138 at ucsdguardian.org/clas
-
sifieds for more information
26’’ Full Suspension Mountain Bike - $600. 
Upgraded Diamond Back Recoil. Like new condition. Listing ID: 110731136 at ucsd
-
guardian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tion
BOATS
1994 30-foot Larson 300 - $29999. The beautiful 1994 Larson has been meticu
-
lously restored to a sleek, modern ves -
sel. She shines from the bow to stern. All upholstery on deck is new including the bolster chairs. The vessel is equipped for fishing with rocket launchers and bait well. The port side galley features sparkling stainless steel double basin sink with gold plated trimmed fixtures, new countertops, electric stove and refrigerator. Listing ID: 111075855 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more informationBoat and Trailer - $700. Nice boat and trailer. No motor. Listing ID: 111075854 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
19-foot Bayliner Trophy 140 Horse Merc - 
$3000. Trailer is like new. All registration is up to date. Great boat for lobster fishing. Listing ID: 111075853 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
ELECTRONICS
Diamondtel 92-m Phone - $125. Mitsubishi in-car mounted phone from the 90s. Very valuable and expensive back then. Antenna, manual, cables and boxes includ
-
ed. Listing ID: 109925980 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
DJ Case Odyssey - $250. Very like-new con
-
dition. Price is firm. Listing ID: 111075785 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
55” LG HDTV (model 55LK520) - In excep
-
tional condition. I have the stand and the 
remonte and can throw in an HD cable, too. Side and rear inputs for HD, USB, and AV connections; rear input also includes audio and PC jacks, too. I no longer have the origi
-
nal box and you’ll have to transport it your -
self. Listing ID: 110731157 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
t
your visio n,
our missio n.
outfitters@ucsd.eduCreate custom a pparel to 
promote your student 
organiza tion with Triton 
Outfitter's new Made TO Order program!www.ucsdguardian.org/advertising
.com/ucsdguardian
.com/ucsdguardian
Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies 
on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.ukLevel: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
Level:
12
34Level:
12
34Level: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
SUDOKU
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 15, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
ish in seventh in the team men’s foil. 
In the saber, junior sabrist Drew 
Dickinson placed 33rd. Dickinson, 
Meckling and Zilinskiy together took 
eighth in the team saber competition. 
UCSD struggled the most in the 
epee, as its highest individual fin -
ish came from sophomore epeeist 
Sean Callaghan, who finished 143rd. 
On the women’s side, the Tri -tons were a little quieter as only four 
athletes represented UCSD. Junior 
sabrist Megan Gesner placed the 
highest at 85th overall in the wom -
en’s individual saber competition. 
The Tritons will now trav -
el to Colorado Springs to com -
pete in the West Invitational to 
compete on Saturday, Jan. 17. right side, bringing the score to 12–5. 
By beating out the Aggies in the 
semifinal round, the girls had another 
opportunity to face the hosting team. 
However, the girls quickly fell behind 
again by 20 after the first half. UCSD 
then adjusted to the Stanford offense 
and outscored them 12–7 in the sec -ond half but failed to overcome the 
initial deficit, losing by a 26–12 score. 
UCSD women’s club rugby will see 
initial regular season action on Satur -
day, Jan. 17 against University of Arizo -
na at home on Warren Field at 11 a.m. 
YEARN EW
SHIRTSN EW
to.ucsd.edu 
that ‘we’re going to go 1-2-3, ’” Falcon 
said. “To see him get that win in such 
a pressured situation was gratifying. ”
Y oung talent also showed 
promise as freshman Kevin 
Wylder took the top spot in the 
50-yard freestyle (21.40) and 
the 100-yard butterfly (50.71). 
“Kevin Wylder also had maybe 
his best meet of the season, ” Falcon 
said. “He’s getting better and better 
as he gets used to things at the col -
legiate level and is starting to show 
the potential that we knew he had. ”
Senior diver Adam Springer won 
the one-meter dive with a season 
best of 269.10 points. He finished 
third on the three-meter spring -
board with a score of 281.80 points. 
UCSD looks to close out the 
regular season at home with one 
last upcoming meet for the men’s 
team and two for the women’s. Both 
squads will face off against Califor -nia Baptist University on Saturday, 
Jan. 17, while the women alone will 
compete against University of San 
Diego on Saturday, Jan. 31. Follow -
ing their final meets, the Tritons 
will prepare themselves for the post -season, starting with conference 
championships in mid-February. Swim/Dive Will Close Out Regular Season in Coming Weeks
readers can contact
  john  stor y     jstory@ucsd.edu ▶ SWIM/DIVE,  from page 12
readers can contact
  cla y  kaufman     gckaufma@ucsd.edu Rugby to Begin Regular Season on Saturday
▶ W. RUGBY ,  from page 12
readers can contact
brittney vierra     sportsclubs@ucsd.edu 
Fencing Will Next Compete in West Invite
▶ FENCING,  from page 12
@UCSD_SportsFollow us on Twitter
PHOTO BY MEGAN LAO/ GUARDIAN FILESPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
BRANDON  YU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 15, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
Who To 
Watch For 
This Winter 
Season
Brandon  yu
bcyu@ucsd.eduFull Court Press
As the oft-doomed Sean Bean 
once proclaimed (because what are 
competitive sports but an annual game 
of thrones, after all?), “Prepare your -
self. Winter is coming. ” And with the 
arrival of the winter season of UCSD 
athletics comes the promise of great 
moments to be made by those in uni -
forms of blue and gold. Bolstering that 
anticipation are many Triton athletes 
who are poised to have spectacular 
seasons and to lead their respective 
UCSD squads to new heights. Take a 
look at just a handful of these players 
(arranged in no particular order) who 
I am excited to watch in the coming 
months.
#1 Farrah Shokoor : Some months 
ago, junior forward Farrah Shokoor 
had absolutely no affiliation with 
UCSD. The San Diego native had 
spent her past two seasons playing for 
the California Collegiate Athletic As -
sociation’s perennial bottom-dwelling 
San Francisco State University. Then 
she transferred to UCSD this year 
and, in only 13 games for the Tritons, 
has emerged as perhaps their most 
reliable and dominant starter. Shokoor 
is leading the basketball team in points 
per game (15.3), rebounds per game 
(12.2), blocks and steals. With UCSD 
currently riding a five-game winning 
streak and finding its rhythm as one of 
the CCAA ’s top contenders, Shokoor’s 
stock is only looking to rise.
#2 Drew Dyer : After a strong 
season last year, junior forward Drew 
Dyer has stepped up his game in a 
necessary time. The Tritons are with -
out any seniors, and the 6-foot-6-inch 
player has emerged as a veteran leader. 
He leads UCSD in points per game 
(13.4) and has dramatically improved 
his shooting percentage from beyond 
the arc (29–58, 0.500), free-throw line 
(32–37, 0.865) and overall from the 
field (50–102, 0.490). But Dyer’s rise 
is really only indicative of a strong 
collective Triton effort. While UCSD 
was pegged to be somewhat doomed 
in the conference this season, the Tri -
tons appear to slowly be hitting their 
stride. With Dyer at the helm of a solid 
ensemble, UCSD is presenting itself as 
the CCAA ’s true dark horse. 
 #3 Jolene Guiliana : While the 
spotlight for the women’s water polo 
team has been fixated upon superstar 
Sarah Lizotte over the past few sea -
sons, senior attacker Jolene Guiliana 
has quietly been honing her abilities 
and getting better every year. Last 
season, Guiliana put up an all-around 
performance of 73 goals, 51 assists and 
46 steals, only further solidifying her 
incredibly capable abilities on both 
ends of the pool. With Lizotte now 
gone, the Tritons have a hole to fill in 
the category of definitive leader. But 
all indications point toward Guiliana 
seizing that role and thriving in it.
#4 Troy Cruz : Last season, junior 
infielder and pitcher Troy Cruz was 
the only Triton to start in every single 
game for the UCSD men’s baseball 
team. But he did not only make an 
impact as a consistent starter — Cruz 
was spectacular both as an infielder 
and as a pitcher. He batted an impres -
sive 0.329 and amazingly went on to 
post a 2.90 ERA with an 8–3 record as 
a starting pitcher through a team-high 
87.0 innings on the mound — and 
this all in only his sophomore season. 
Cruz was impressively good, but as he 
enters his junior year, he is bound to 
only get better.  SWIM/DIVE
Tritons Sweep D-I Foes
The Triton women easily defeat LMU and CSUB, while men take hard-earned win against CSUB. 
BY CLAY KAUFMAN STAFF WRITER // PHOTOS BY BEATRIZ BAJUELOS 
FENCING
Men’s Team Foil Win Silver
Tritons faced tough matchups at North American Cup.While the rest of the school settled in 
last weekend after a short winter 
break, the men and women of the 
UCSD swimming and diving teams were already 
on the move, heading north toward Los Angeles, 
where the Tritons dominated in a dual meet against 
Division-I opponents Loyola Marymount Univer -
sity and Cal State Bakersfield. The No. 4 nation -
ally ranked women’s team defeated host Loyola 
Marymount and Cal State Bakersfield with scores 
of 185–108 and 172–128, respectively. The No. 7 
men’s team, who only faced off against Bakers -
field, beat the Roadrunners by a score of 160–139.
“Being able to go 3–0 against a pair of Divi -
sion-I opponents on the road in adverse con -
ditions (persistent rain) is always nice, ” UCSD 
women’s swimming and diving head coach Cor -
rie Falcon told the UCSD Athletics Department.
With the weekend’s success, the Tri -ton women improved to 7–3 overall, while 
the men moved up to 5–3 on the season. 
Though many UCSD athletes performed admi -
rably during the defeat of their foes, sophomore 
Austine Lee’s performances not only outshone all 
others but also significantly aided the women’s 
side in their sweep. She won the 100 (1:05.65) and 
200-yard breaststroke (2:22.24), leading a 1-2-3 
Triton sweep in both races, ahead of senior Eva 
Chen and sophomore Jaimie Bryan each time. In 
the 50-yard freestyle, she finished second (24.16), 
while junior Colleen Daley finished closely be -
hind in third (24.73). Lee also led off a team of 
Bryan, senior Jaclyn Amog and Daley in a first-
place finish in the 200-yard medley (1:46.91). 
 “This was a pretty comfortable win against both 
[Loyola Marymount] and [Cal State] Bakersfield on 
the women’s side, ” Falcon said. “There were any num -
ber of solid swims, but we really crushed them in the breaststroke, going 1-2-3 in both the 100 and 200. 
Austine Lee was probably our best swimmer today. ”
On the men’s side, sophomore Zachary Y ong, 
won the 200-yard breaststroke with a time of 
2:08.34. Y ong’s time was less than a second in 
front of teammate junior AJ Zavala who fin -
ished the race at 2:09.23, while Triton fresh -
man Josh Lo took third (2:11.64). Zavala, how -
ever, beat Y ong in the 100-yard breaststroke by 
a little more than a second, with the pair finish -
ing with times of 58.48 and 59.62, respectively.
UCSD also swept the podium in the 
200-yard individual medley, with Y ong 
(1:56.05) and Zavala (1:56.47) again tak -
ing first and second, respectively, while fresh -
man Kevin Fink finished in third (1:58.02). 
“Zach had won the 200-[yard] breaststroke earli -
er and told me right before the [individual medley] 
See  SWIM/DIVE , page 11
This past weekend the UCSD fenc -
ing team traveled to Salt Lake City 
to compete in the North American 
Cup. The Tritons’ best finish came on 
the men’s side via the foil team of ju -
nior Eduard Zilinskiy, senior Jeffrey 
Chan and freshman David Hadler, 
who took the silver medal together. 
The four-day competition began 
with the men’s individual foil on Friday. Hadler earned a 27th place finish in the 
men’s foil — the highest individual fin -
ish of any Triton in the tournament —
while Zilinskiy and freshman Nicholas 
Phan took 94th and 98th, respectively.
Apart from Zilinskiy, Chan and 
Hadler’s collective second-place 
finish, the younger team of fresh -
man Warren Chen, Phan, Alex 
Okamoto and sophomore foilist 
Mitchell Shulman went on to fin -B Y  john  stor y  
Staff WriterUCSD women’s rugby team 
ended the preseason with a trip to 
Northern California to compete in 
the Stanford Women’s Rugby Col -
legiate Invitational. The Tritons had 
a second-place finish that was nearly 
identical to last year’s tournament, 
ultimately losing to host Stanford 
University 26–12 in the final match. 
The Tritons’ first opponent was Uni -
versity of Oregon, which put up a fierce 
battle. Despite letting up a late score by 
the opponent, which tipped the score 
7–5 in UCSD’s favor, the Oregon kicker 
missed the crucial conversion, allow -
ing the blue and gold to take the win. 
The second game was played against 
Western Washington University. 
UCSD was able to maintain a comfort -
able lead throughout the game and was afforded the opportunity to allow start -
ers to rest by subbing from the bench. 
Saturday’s last match was against 
the Stanford Cardinals and re -
sulted in a 26-point shutout win by 
the host. Despite the loss, UCSD 
finished second in its pool and 
would advance to a semifinal bout 
with UC Davis the following day. 
In the semifinal, UCSD fell behind 
5–0 during the first half of the match 
and was feeling a lot of pressure from 
the Aggies. However, toward the end of 
the second half, the Triton women cap -
italized on an overload on the left side 
of the field and were able to pass it out 
for a score and a conversion, leading 
UC Davis 7–5. A few possessions later, 
with less than two minutes remaining of 
the match, the Tritons were able to take 
a slightly bigger lead by scoring on the 
See  W. RUGBY , page 11Tritons Conclude Preseason
Rugby falls in finals of Stanford Collegiate Invite.WOMEN'S  CLUB  RUGB Y
compiled b y
brittney vierra
W. Basketball
M. Basketball
Swim/Dive
W. Tennis
Fencing     1/16      
     1/16
     1/17
     1/17
     1/17AT Cal State L.A.
AT Cal State L.A.
VS. Cal Baptist University
AT UC Irvine
AT West InvitationalUPCOMING
UCSD
GAMES
See  FENCING , page 11