VOLUME 48, ISSUE 55  MONDAY , MAY 18, 2015 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Looking to
BUY A HOME
near UCSD?Look no further... Scan below
for UTClistings
CALL 619-846-5843.....VISIT providentialusa.com
PRINT-A-ROCKET 
HITS THE AIR
UCSD SEDS, THE CREATOR 
OF A 3D-PRINTED ENGINE 
ROCKET, TALKED ABOUT THE 
KICKSTARTER SUCCESS AND 
FUTURE PLANS TO LAUNCH 
“VULCAN-1” THIS JUNE.
SUPPORT  OUR  P ARENTS
SPORTS  SEASON  RECAPSP arent al  lea ve  in  the  U.S.
This  YEAR  and  beyondopinion,  P age   4
sports,  P age  12
MONDAY
H 67 L 57TUESDAY
H 68 L 55
WEDNESDAY
H 67 L 55THURSDAY
H 66 L 55
FORECAST
VERBATIM
...THE 
SOCIAL 
JUSTICE 
CAMPS 
FAILED TO 
RECOGNIZE 
INDIVIDUALS WHO 
HAVE A FOOT IN BOTH 
TERRITORIES...”
- VINCENT PHAM
BOY, INTERRUPTED
OPINION , PAGE 4
INSIDE
LIGHTS AND SIRENS  ....... 3
QUICK TAKES  .................. 4
JUNKYARD DERBY  .......... 6
CROSSWORD  ................ 10
MIND OF AN ATHLETE  ...12“FeA TURES,  P AGE  8CA Officials 
Institute New
Sexual Assault 
GuidelinesSTATE
The revised policies 
emphasize increased 
interaction between law 
enforcement and campuses.
B Y  Maria Sebas
STAFF Writer
See MOU , page 3California Attorney General 
Kamala Harris and University 
of California President Janet 
Napolitano announced a new 
framework to improve how 
California college campuses handle 
sexual assault cases. On Wednesday, 
May 13, Harris released a Model 
Memorandum of Understanding on 
Campus Sexual Assault. 
In a press release, Harris pointed 
out that the Model MOU will bring 
law enforcement and university 
officials together to assist victims of 
sexual assault. 
“The model agreements will help 
break down silos between campuses 
and law enforcement agencies to 
provide sexual assault victims with 
the help they need and hold more 
perpetrators accountable, ” Harris 
stated.  
Napolitano added that cooperation 
between campuses and law enforcement 
will improve investigations into sexual 
assault cases. 
“Working closely with Attorney 
General Kamala Harris and law 
enforcement agencies will help us build 
trust and ensure appropriate outcomes 
for criminal acts of sexual violence and 
assault, ” Napolitano said. 
The Model MOU consists of a how-
to guide and a template MOU for law 
enforcement agencies and institutions 
of higher education to facilitate better 
coordination in dealing with sexual 
assault cases. In addition, it highlights 
student victims’ rights to a Sexual 
Assault Forensic Exam (rape kit), to 
choose whether or not to participate 
with local law enforcement in pursuit 
of a criminal investigation and to 
participate anonymously therein.  
University of California Student 
Association President Jefferson Kuoch-
Seng told the UCSD Guardian in an 
email that the MOU is not enforced 
for California college campuses that 
already have similar policies and 
procedures in place.
“It’s available for guidance but 
not required if a campus already has 
agreements in place with their local law Napolitano and Brown Agree 
to Delay UC Tuition Hikes
University of California President Janet 
Napolitano and Gov. Jerry Brown reached 
an agreement to provide the university with 
additional revenue and freeze tuition through the next 
school year. Napolitano announced the agreement last 
Thursday and will present it to the UC Board of Regents 
on May 21.
Starting with the 2017–18 school year, the UC 
system’s tuition will increase annually by at least the rate 
of inflation. The deal also mandates a 4-percent base 
budget increase for the next four years and grants $436 
million over three years for University of California’s 
pension obligation, $25 million for deferred maintenance 
and $25 million to support energy efficiency. 
Lastly, the agreement allows the UC Regents to 
authorize the UC system to increase nonresident 
supplemental tuition by up to 8 percent annually. 
The components of the deal will be included in the 
governor’s revised state budget proposal, which must be 
finalized by next month. 
UCSD’s A.S. External Vice President Allyson Osorio 
thinks that the deal lacks any new benefits for the 
University of California’s graduate and professional 
students. 
“Graduate students and professional students 
are not taken into consideration when it comes to 
this announcement, so this affects certain students 
differently, ” Osorio said. “They are the backbone of [the 
UC system], and I think many seem to recognize that. ”
In addition, the UC system will also continue or 
expand efforts to ensure that at least a third of its 
student population are transfers, create clear pathways 
to a three-way undergraduate degree, eliminate course 
bottlenecks and improve academic advising.
UC Office of the President’s media specialist Shelly Meron told the UCSD Guardian that, while the 
agreement solves the University of California’s tuition 
issues for the foreseeable future, it does not account for 
planned increases in resident student enrollment. 
“While the framework meets the regents’ goals of 
providing budget stability and predictability, it does not 
allocate funds for the UC [system’s] priority of boosting 
enrollment of California students, ” Meron said. “The [UC 
system] has been working with legislative leadership on 
ways to enroll more such students, a critical need given 
the continuing demand and the predicted shortage of 
highly skilled workers in the state. ”
Osorio also called the deal a step in the right 
direction. However, she believes that the UC system still 
needs to formulate a comprehensive, long-term solution 
for its students.
“I know many students are happy and excited, as 
they should be, yet it is always important to remember 
that this is a temporary fix, ” Osorio told the Guardian. 
“The UC [system] and the state of California together 
need to find long term solutions for its undergraduates, 
graduate and professional students in the state of 
California. ”
Additionally, according to the Los Angeles Times, 
California State University system officials are 
disappointed that the governor’s budget did not include 
their full request for the 23-campus system. President 
pro tempore of the California Senate Kevin de Leon 
agrees that the deal lacks solutions for California State 
University students.
“We are pleased UC students and their families will 
avoid paying higher tuition next year, ” de Leon told 
the Los Angeles Times. “But [the CSU system], the 
workhorse of our higher education system, has been 
shortchanged. ”  B y  JACKY  TO     EDITORIAL ASSISTANTUC SYSTEM
Jacky To   j6to@ucsd.edu readers can contact
For more information, check out the full story in this Thursday’s issue.
INFOGRAPHIC REPORTING BY THE GUARDIAN STAFF // INFOGRAPHIC BY JOSELYNN ORDAZ // PHOTO BY MATTHIAS SCHEER
students transported to hospitalSun God Festival 2015  
Crime Statistics
6666 7474
students transported to detoxcompared 
to 2014
+992121compared 
to 2014
55
1010
compared 
to 2014j 
drug-related 
arrests 
and 
citations2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 18, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG N EWS
DIGITAL MONKEYS By Jeff Lau
Registration for SPRING Qtr is open!
Register online at 
as.ucsd.edu/saferides
A.S. Safe Rides allows registered undergraduate 
stude nts to get 3 FREE rides per quarter.
Stude nts must register at least 24 hours
prior to their first ride. A.S. 
asucsdSafe Ride s 
asucsdResearch and Information, as of 
2014, the undergraduate enrollment 
rate of African-American students is 
approximately 2 percent.
Sias expressed that the event 
carried an important role in preserving 
African culture at the campus where the enrollment rate of African 
Americans is the second lowest, 
following the lowest enrollment rate of 
Native Americans.
“Especially for cultures that are not 
so well understood, I thought this was a 
very important educational experience 
for a lot of people who might not be 
too familiar with African culture, ” Sias said. “I think it’s definitely something 
to learn more about because I think 
in the coming years, we are going to 
see more and more African cultures, 
people from African cultures [and] 
different countries coming to UCSD. ”UCSD researchers recently 
published a study that found an 
inverse correlation between sun 
exposure and higher incidence rates 
for pancreatic cancer.
The study, performed by Adjunct 
Professors Cedric Garland and 
Edward Gorham, concluded that 
population centers located at higher 
latitudes had a higher incidence rate 
for pancreatic cancer than those 
located closer to the equator.
Garland, the main author of the 
study, explained that pancreatic cancer 
rates vary around the world.
“People who live in sunny countries 
near the equator have only one-sixth 
of the age-adjusted incidence rate of 
pancreatic cancer as those who live far 
from it, ” Garland said.
The professors conducted the study 
by comparing national incidence/
mortality rates of the potent cancer 
with a latitude-based ultraviolet B 
exposure score for each country. The professors obtained and calculated data 
for 172 countries, located at various 
latitudes in both the Northern and 
Southern hemispheres. What Garland 
found was a clear trend: countries 
with a higher incidence of pancreatic 
cancer were typically found at higher 
latitudes, with more cloud cover and 
therefore less exposure to UVB. 
“If you’re living at a high latitude 
or in a place with a lot of heavy cloud 
cover, you can’t make vitamin D most 
of the year, which results in a higher-
than-normal risk of getting pancreatic 
cancer, ” Garland said.
Though other confounding factors 
could have had an effect on pancreatic 
cancer incidence rates, Garland found 
that the correlation still held when 
taking these risk factors into account.
“The [correlation] did not go away 
when we adjusted for many factors, 
including health expenditures, body 
mass index, cigarette smoking and 
alcohol use, ” Garland said.  
Cohort studies cited by the paper 
have suggested that 25-hydroxyvitamin 
D – a modified form of vitamin D 
found in the body – is associated with a lower risk for pancreatic cancer. 
Vitamin D is readily synthesized by 
the body in the presence of ultraviolet 
radiation, specifically UVB.
“Solar UVB is the main source of 
vitamin D [for the human body] ... 
It is estimated that 80 to 90 percent 
of vitamin D in circulation is from 
sunlight” Garland said, adding that 
vitamin D “and its metabolites have 
been linked to lower incidence and 
mortality of several cancers. ”
UVB rays, while integral to the 
synthesis of vitamin D in the human 
body, can also lead to sunburn 
and potentially cancerous DNA 
degradation in skin cells. Sunscreen 
and avoiding excessive UV exposure 
have proven to decrease this risk. 
However, Garland warns that our 
efforts to protect ourselves from 
skin cancer are making us vitamin D 
deficient and potentially higher at risk 
for pancreatic cancer.
“Nowadays we make very little 
[vitamin D] because we usually wear 
clothes that cover 90 percent of our 
skin and wear sunscreens that totally 
prevent [UV absorption], ” Garland said.  
Garland recommends annual 
checkups to monitor vitamin D levels 
in our bloodstream.
“Everyone should have their 
25-hydroxyvitamin D tested every 
February or March, when the 
concentration is lowest, ” Garland 
advises, recommending a supplement 
in the event that levels are lower than 
the accepted 40 ng/ml.
“ Adequate vitamin D [with calcium] 
has been shown in a randomized 
clinical trial to prevent four out of five 
cancers in postmenopausal women. ”
Pancreatic cancer is one of the 
deadliest types of cancers, with an 
average five-year survival rate of 16 
percent. Incidence and mortality 
rates from the study were obtained 
from the World Health Organization’s 
GLOBOCAN initiative.  An estimated 
48,960 patients are expected to be 
diagnosed with the disease in 2015.SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
The study analyzed cancer mortality rates and ultraviolet exposure scores from 172 countries across both hemispheres.
B Y  Josh  Lefler
Contributing WriterResearchers Link Pancreatic Cancer Rates to Sunlight Exposure
Josh  Lefler jlefer@ucsd.edu readers can contact
African American Students Comprise Second-Smallest Campus Ethnicity
▶ ASA,  from page 3
Bruce B.y. Lee  byl019@ucsd.edu readers can contactFollow Us on Twitter
@UCSDGUARDIANThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2015, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. The views expressed herein do 
not necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD 
Guardian, the University of California or Associated 
Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. 
Daisy Pollock: Associate Opinion Editor.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio    Aleksandra Konstantinovic
Andrew E. Huang  
Taylor Sanderson
Tina Butoiu
Kriti Sarin
Cassia Pollock
Marcus Thuillier
Teiko Yakobson
Jacqueline Kim
Kyle Somers
Nilu Karimi
Siddharth Atre
Jonathan Gao
Joselynn Ordaz
Sherman Aline
Elyse Yang
Annie Liu
Rosina Garcia
Jennifer Grundman
Laura Chow
Vincent PhamEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
  
Associate News Editor
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Social Media Coordinator
Training and Development
Page Layout
Kriti Sarin
Distribution
Christopher Graves, Josef Goodyear, Vincent Pham
Copy Readers
Andrew Chao, Caroline Lee, Sage Schubert Christian, Marissa 
Barber, Heejung Lim
Editorial Assistants
Shelby Newallis, Karly Nisson, Mario Attie, Katie Potts,
 Allison Kubo, Jacky Toenforcement agencies that address 
collaboration and information 
sharing related to responding to 
sexual assault and other Part-I 
violent crimes, ” Kuoch-Seng said. 
The Model MOU is intended 
to help campuses comply with 
Assembly Bill 1433. The law requires 
institutions of higher education 
to implement written policies and 
procedures ensuring any report 
of sexual assault that campus 
authorities receive are immediately forwarded to local law enforcement. 
California campuses must do so by 
July 1, 2015, which is stipulated in 
the California Education Code.
According to a press release by 
the Office of the Attorney General, 
up to 20 percent of undergraduate 
students are victims of an attempted 
or completed sexual assault. 
Additionally, 80 percent of campus 
sexual assaults go unreported to law 
enforcement.
In January 2015, Harris released 
an information bulletin to California law enforcement agencies and 
higher education administrators 
summarizing AB 1433 as well as 
Senate Bill 967, commonly referred 
to as the “Y es Means Y es” law. Gov. 
Brown signed the law into force on 
Sept. 28, 2014. The law put in place 
an affirmative consent standard 
in determining whether “consent 
was given by both parties to sexual 
activity. ”N EWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 18, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
Financial Aid Ofﬁ ce 2015–2016
complete and submit your veriﬁ cation worksheet, use the IRS Data Retrieval Tool ,If you have been selected for veriﬁ cation, 
and/or provide other information by the May 21  deadline.
www.fafsa.ed.gov
www.CalDreamAct.org
FINANCIAL AID DEADLINE
MAY 21, 2015 
JUNE 17 , 2014
MAY 1, 2010
GET YOURS.
To be considered  for the best financial aid packag e, yo u must hav e subm itted your FAFSA or Ca lifornia Drea m Act Application by 
March 2 and submit all missing documents and/or  clear all processi ng hold s listed on y our TritonLink Financial Aid checkl ist by the  
May 21st deadline.  Applications completed after the deadlines WILL NOT be considered for University Gran ts, SEOG, Work Study, 
Univers ity or Perkins Loans.   
MAY 21, 2015LIGHTS & SIRENSLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edu.
*See infographic on page 1
Monday, May 4
12:58 a.m.: Under the Influence
Report of a young adult male in 
the Sixth College residence halls 
acting erratically, possibly under 
the influence of excessive drugs. 
Transported to hospital.
1:52 a.m.: Suspicious Person
Report of male talking to himself 
and holding himself over a side 
railing near Lot P406. RSO report 
taken.
10:02 p.m.: Welfare Check
A male subject called the Veterans 
Affairs hotline and admitted that he 
wanted to commit suicide. Unable 
to locate.
Tuesday, May 5
12:11 p.m.: Medical Aid
A female was passed out in the 
women’s restroom in the Student 
Services Center. Checks ok.
4:40 p.m.: Welfare Check
A young adult female in Geisel 
Library was acting strangely 
and pacing back and forth. Field 
interview administered.
7 p.m.: Battery
A male attempted to grab the 
victim’s buttocks at Porter’s Pub. 
Report taken.
Wednesday, May 6
8:53 a.m.: Suspicious Person
An adult male possibly urinated in a Village elevator. Gone on arrival.
4:24 p.m.: Medical Aid
A patient at the Moores Cancer 
Center experienced weakness and 
fatigue. Fire department responded.
7:57 p.m.: Injury
A young adult male dislocated 
his shoulder while wrestling. 
Information only.
Thursday, May 7
5:33 a.m.: Welfare Check
Custodial Services found a student-
aged female sleeping on the floor 
of the women’s restroom in the 
Applied Mathematics and Physics 
Building. Field interview conducted.
12:28 p.m.: Citizen Contact
A motorist reported that a student-
aged male ran into the street, 
causing her to hit the subject. 
The subject suffered no apparent 
injury and ran off to get on a bus. 
Information only. 
2:22 p.m.: Harassment
Report of harassing phone calls and 
messages from former girlfriend. 
Report taken.
11:33 p.m.: Noise Complaint
Loud music was reported from 
a Muir College residence, which 
refused to open the door for an 
RSO. Report taken.
— ANDREW E. HUANG
Managing EditorLaw Mandates That Campuses Immediately Report Sexual Assault
▶ MOU,  from page 1The Celebration of Africa, hosted 
by the African Student Association, 
celebrated the cultural diversity 
of Africa and informed students 
of African traditions and facts 
through various activities, such as 
a general knowledge quiz, spoken 
word, a martial arts performance, 
African traditional dance, painting 
performance, speeches and fashion 
shows. This event was held on May 
14 in the Price Center West Ballroom.
Co-chair of African Students 
Association Blessing Adeleke told 
the UCSD Guardian that the main 
purpose of the event was to inform 
students of diverse African cultures 
and promote cultural interactions 
among students.
“The goal was to bring students 
from all different types of culture 
to learn about Africa. Just coming 
here and celebrating what Africa is 
about, how there are different types of African-looking people, ” Adeleke 
said. “There’s different shape. There’s 
different hue. Tall, short, we are just 
like everyone else and wanted to 
share our culture with everyone else. ”
The event started off with 
a trivia activity, asking general 
knowledge questions about Africa 
to the audience members. Thurgood 
Marshall College junior Monica Sias 
described her experience at the event 
as being educational.
“[From] the trivia they had at 
the beginning, I learned some new 
things, ” Sias said. “I also learned 
about new foods. I also learned about 
[African] dances, different cultures of 
Africa and attires of Africa. ”
The Celebration of Africa also 
presented a combination of visual 
and auditory entertainment through 
a performance of capoeira, a Brazilian 
martial art that was originally formed 
by African slaves, which involves 
self-defense, combat, dance-like 
expression, acrobatics and music.
Adeleke stated that unlike the 
events of previous years, this year’s Celebration of Africa focused more 
on exposing diversity of African 
culture by including symbolic 
performances from different regions 
with African roots.
“One thing we wanted to do was 
[share] our culture to show that 
there’s diversity in Africa, ” Adeleke 
said. “I think a lot of people don’t 
realize that Africa is the most diverse 
continent, so we showed more 
diversity this year. ”  
Toward the end of the event 
Jeremy Prestholdt, a history professor 
at UCSD, gave a formal speech, 
describing how appreciation of 
African cultures and traditions can 
potentially make better communities 
in places elsewhere. 
“If all the countries in the world 
were like Africa, we would have a 
much better place to live, ” Prestholdt 
said. “The western countries surely 
have a lot to learn from African 
cultures. ”
According to UCSD Student Annual ASA Event Celebrates African Culture
Through activities, perfomances and speeches, students learned about African traditions.
B Y   Bruce B.Y. Lee
Staff WriterCAMPUS
See ASA , page 2
maria Sebas  msebas@ucsd.edu readers can contact
Follow us on Twitter
@UCSDGUARDIAN4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 18, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CASSIA  POLLOCK
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
This is an age when one simply does not need emotion or human 
creativity to craft music. While some technological advancements 
have improved our standards of living significantly, others have 
lowered our expectations for originality within the arts. Since the 
beginning of pop music, it is clear that mainstream artists have been 
carefully crafted as corporate products. But now they are being far 
too blunt — and even shameful — by substituting lifeless computers 
for human creativity in the artistic process.
For instance, look at Japan’s very own Hatsune Miku — a 
computer program that masquerades as a pop star. For a country 
to produce both this and someone as real as Ayumi Hamasaki in 
the same generation is perplexing. The former is an inauthentic, 
unsatisfying robotic-sounding mess of a creation. She isn’t even a 
real person, yet she has continued to be eerily marketed as some 
sort of sensational android. 
On the other hand, Hamasaki is everything; Miku is not. 
Hamasaki has frequently eschewed her music as a consumerist 
product, writes her own lyrics and produces her own music. One 
can feel honesty and integrity in her works. This cannot be said 
about the so-called music churned out by Miku’s algorithm.
Unfortunately, the increasing presence of computer-generated 
artistic content is not just a pop-music phenomenon. The rock 
world has also seen some of its heroes descend into a pit of 
uninspired mediocrity when human talent is replaced by the cold 
hand of the machine. 
In the early ‘80s, guitar virtuoso Frank Zappa found himself fed 
up with actual people and began to produce studio albums featuring 
the Synclavier, a synthesizer with the ability to play computer-
programmed compositions. The most famous album of this soulless 
era — Jazz from Hell — is without expression, dull and quite frankly 
a soul-sucking experience.
UCSD students might very well live to see a brave, new musical 
world dominated by machines in place of the human experience. 
Thankfully, history has produced hundreds of years of genuine 
music to look back on and appreciate.
—  JORDAN UTLEY-THOMSON
Staff WriterComputer Programs Have Covertly Substituted the 
Material of  Musical Artists With Algorithms
QUICK TAKESAS COMPUTER PROGRAMS CONTINUE TO REPLACE A GREAT DEAL OF CONTENT IN VARIOUS SECTORS OF THE MEDIA, 
SUCH AS NEWS AND MUSIC, THE IMPLICATIONS FOR ARTISTIC EXPRESSION REMAIN UNCERTAIN FOR THE FUTURE.
ILLUSTRATION BY ELYSE YANG
Just one week ago, the United States celebrated the reason we 
are all here: mothers giving birth. In other words, Mother’s Day 
happened as usual with citizens thanking their mothers. However, 
John Oliver, the host of “Last Week Tonight, ” reminded the U.S. in 
his typical hilarious fashion how we can better thank mothers: paid 
maternity leave. While that’s true, there’s an even better solution: Offer 
paid parental leave for both mothers and fathers. 
First, let’s get the facts straight. Currently in the U.S., there is no 
federal government requirement for any type of paid leave, paternal 
or maternal. The U.S. is one of only four countries with no national 
paid maternity leave, along with Swaziland, Lesotho and Papua New 
Guinea, according to the U.K. Guardian. Instead, the New Y ork Times 
tells us about the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 which requires 
companies within the U.S. with more than 50 employees to provide 12 
weeks of unpaid leave for new parents. 
There are two key things to note about this. Although legally 
mandated, this is still unpaid leave. For new families who are usually 
strapped for cash, spending three months getting no pay is unrealistic. More often than not, mothers and fathers will shorten their leave 
because they cannot afford to spend so much time while not receiving 
pay. Thus, for maternity and paternity leave to be effective and for it to 
be used, it’s crucial that parental leave includes pay. 
Second, though the act dictates that leave must be offered for 
fathers as well as mothers, the New Y ork Times points out that 20 
percent of companies illegally fail to offer any paternity leave. This will 
be discussed as an equally crucial detail that cannot be left out of the 
equation. Despite this, there is a small silver lining. There are three 
states within the U.S. that require paid family leave: California, New 
Jersey and Rhode Island, according to Politifact.com. However, three 
out of 50 states leaves out the vast majority of the country, showing the 
need for a national solution. 
It’s clear that the U.S. does not have paid parental leave, but why is 
it even important to have? The most obvious reasons are the benefits 
mothers get from maternity leave. Today, 70 percent of mothers are 
working, as reported by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Paid leave 
gives working mothers a chance to recover from the difficult task of 
See UNPAID LEAVE, page 5Support Our Parents
Unlike the majority of  industrialized countries in the world, the U.S. provides little 
legislative protection to ensure that new parents are granted paid leave after childbirth.
B Y A y a t amin   staff writer
The Associated Press and Comcast Corp. recently partnered up with 
Automated Insights, a company that uses “natural language processing” 
to create news stories out of data reports. In addition, these automated 
machine journalists produce stories in minutes, allowing people to access 
information about homicides, earthquakes and other events instantly.
Supporters of this platform argue that automatically generated 
news articles save time and ensure logistical accuracy, allowing human 
journalists to devote more time to interviewing and investigating. While 
computer algorithms can be designed to produce creative, engaging 
pieces, they cannot, at this point in time, perform multidimensional 
investigative work. Therefore, the issue of jobs being replaced by 
technology is not currently a problem.
According to the Automated Insights website, the Wordsmith 
technology used by the company writes “exactly what each customer 
or employee wants — and needs — to read. ” However, there is a caveat. 
Although the company is managed by real people, and articles can be 
modified by actual reporters, the information being received is ultimately 
filtered by a computer. 
As we all know, algorithms can be easily manipulated, and system 
glitches do happen. Stories written by people reflect the natural biases of 
writers and editors, but readers expect that because they are also human. 
Articles compiled by a machine, however, are more likely to be perceived 
as neutral because a robot doesn’t possess human emotion or reason. 
Because the content of the article is not written by a person, information 
people actually “need” might be arbitrarily omitted.
Convenience versus liberty is an issue that has been talked about in 
recent years with the emergence of increasingly efficient technology. 
News and information are necessary for the public to make informed 
choices and to fully participate in society. Altering news propagates a 
false understanding of reality which people are too busy and distracted 
to investigate themselves. Thus, supporting these new media which 
create more convenient or efficient news stories does not necessarily 
raise awareness of the critical investigative details in public events. As a 
result, computer-generated articles defeat the purpose of news articles by 
hindering the drive for deeper analysis.
—  TINA BUTOIU
 News EditorMachine-Generated News Articles Allow Informa -
tion T o Be Filtered By Computers Instead of  People“I’ll tell you who has it the hard -
est: white men, ” Jack Donaghy (Alec 
Baldwin) of the acclaimed NBC 
sitcom “30 Rock” said. “We make the 
unpopular, difficult decisions — the 
tough choices. We land on the moon 
and Normandy Beach and yet they 
resent us. ”
It was his response to Jenna 
Maroney (Jane Krakowski) and Tracy 
Jordan’s (Tracy Morgan) social experi -
ment — to figure out if women or 
black men had it hardest in America. 
The loveable page-boy Kenneth 
Parcell (Jack McBrayer) politely 
chimes in, noting that he is also a 
white man.
“No, you are not. 
Socioeconomically speaking, you are 
more like an inner-city Latina, ” Jack 
retorted. Thus is the premise for this 
column: intersectionality. So what 
is intersectionality in the context of 
social issues? Kimberle Crenshaw first 
coined the term intersectionality in 
1989 and published a 1991 paper in 
the Stanford Law Review; her research 
countered conventional understand -
ings of anti-racist and feminist rheto -
ric and how it focused on a single 
identity. What Crenshaw argued is 
that the social justice camps failed to 
recognize individuals who have a foot 
in both territories. 
If a woman of color is raped, 
will her experience be different 
from a white woman being raped? 
Crenshaw’s argument is a substantive 
“yes” — not exhibiting whiteness will 
affect outcomes and social stigmas of 
the individual raped, and the extent 
of a woman of color’s experience 
intersects not only with her sex but 
with her ethnicity, her socioeconomic 
status, her fluency in the English lan -
guage and her awareness and level of 
education on available resources. As 
for Maroney and Jordan’s argument 
about whether the pitfalls of being 
a black man or a black woman are 
worse, there is no simple solution.
Let’s look at another example of 
the intersectionality of gender and 
race, as well as socioeconomic status. 
The “Grim Sleeper” is a menacing 
euphemism for a serial killer who 
has been convicted for 10 counts of 
murder in the South Central Los 
Angeles area from 1985 to 2007. The 
suspect, formally known as Lonnie 
David Franklin Jr., got his nickname 
from a 14-year lapse between the kill -
ings. The victims? All black women, 
many of whom were seen as pros -
titutes or drug addicts. This isn’t a 
sweeping generalization to say that 
the Los Angeles police wholeheart -
edly disregarded the lives of Franklin’s 
victims, but this case could not be 
more representative of intersectional -
ity. If the victims did not belong to 
the marginalized communities of 
being women and being black but also 
the lower social echelons of the U.S., 
would the investigation have gone dif -
ferently? The gravity of the question is 
immense and one that should not be 
simply overlooked.
Late American poet and self-
proclaimed “black, lesbian, mother, 
warrior, poet” Audre Lorde said in 
her poem, “Who Said It Was Simple, ” 
that “But I who am bound by my mir -
ror/ as well as my bed/ see causes in 
colour/ as well as sex. ” Because we are 
not the addition of our several identi -
ties but the multiplication of those 
identities, every experience is intrinsi -
cally unique. Lost Within
Overlapping 
Identities: 
Who Am I?
Vincent  pham 
vnp003@ucsd.eduboy, interrupted
OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 18, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
childbirth while not having to worry 
about income or losing their job. In 
addition, studies show that when 
companies offer paid maternity leave, 
working mothers are significantly less 
likely to drop out of the workforce, 
according to Slate Magazine. 
However, if we really want to help 
the situation, paternity leave must 
be offered as well. This helps fathers, 
benefits families and supports women 
in the workforce. The New Y ork 
Times reported that men who take a 
hands-on role in their children’s lives, 
have healthier children, and their 
wives have a lower risk of getting 
depression after childbirth. Social 
scientists have published many studies 
showing that children are less likely 
to develop a mental illness later on in 
life when both parents play an active 
role in their upbringing. In addition, a study in the journal Public Health 
shows that fathers who took paternity 
leave actually lived longer. In Sweden, 
a study that offered paid leave for 
fathers from 1978 to 1979 shows that 
these men had a 16-percent decreased 
risk of death. The study also showed 
that the longer the paid leave, the 
better the life expectancy.
This also ties into the aspect 
of equal pay. Harvard Business 
Review did a study on “off ramps, ” 
also known as breaks from a career, 
which cause lower wage earnings 
later on. Women statistically take 
more “off ramps” than men, and 
taking leave to give birth is a 
common example of an “off ramp. ” 
It should also be noted that the loss 
of career earnings that women face 
for taking maternity leave apply 
to men who take paternity leave 
as well.  However, according to the New Y ork Times, when men 
take parental leave, their wives 
face greater career earnings later 
on. When both parents take the 
same time off work, this lessens the 
gender gap in wages.
Altogether, this reflects a bigger 
trend. No longer do traditional 
families have one sole breadwinner 
and one sole caregiver, nor should 
they. Instead, caregiver and 
breadwinner roles should be shared 
by both parents. This leads to 
healthier families and more diverse 
companies with more equal pay. As 
a service that would benefit mothers, 
fathers, children and the workforce, 
it’s incredibly disappointing that the 
U.S. doesn’t have it yet. The point is 
that when you offer paid parental 
leave, everybody wins. 
Transform the lives of children 
with a Master of Arts in Education from Pepperdine.
luke’s learning.impact
To start your transformation, get in touch today. 310.568.2366 or 866.503.5467
gsep-recruitment@pepperdine.edu • gsep.pepperdine.eduASCE.UCSD.E DUFor mor e informa tion, c ontact A SCE a t
avpconcerts@ucsd. edu or (858) 5 34-04 77theloft.ucsd.edu
THE LOFT DOORS AT 8PM
UCSD STUDENTS ONLY5.21.2015FIERCE
THE ASCE DANCE
WORLDFRONT WINDOW By David Juarez
GOT ISSUES?
BE HEARD
BY YOUR PEERS!SEND YOUR 
LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGPaid Leave Deserves Recogniton As Necessary, Essential Parental Support
▶ UNPAID LEAVE from page 4
readers can contact
a y a t amin  a6amin@ucsd.edu6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 18, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEA TURES
FEATURES
As Week 8 rolls in, some students are quietly studying for their midterms and finals. However, east of the UCSD 
campus, others are working on something else entirely: building a derby car. The Triton Junkyard Derby is a 
UCSD tradition in which teams scour the local San Diego area for usable junk to build their own derby car. 
Having spent the weekend in a parking lot assembling their cars, these students will compete against other teams in a 
race down Mandeville Hill today.
This past Saturday’s calm afternoon was taken over by the sounds of machinery and tinkering. Many cars 
and pedestrians passed by wondering if there was road construction going on. Andreas Borzone, a sophomore 
working as a test committee member for the Junkyard Derby, believes that the Derby is a good way for engi -
neers to take part in a hands-on activity outside of classes.
“This event was created so that we can create things out of junk and metal. It brings out the engineers’ inno -
vation with pieces of scrap metal, ” Borzone said. “ Alongside that, we like that this [event] can create teams and 
[bring] community to the engineers in a competitive way … [It shows them] that engineering is not something 
that is just coursework. ”
As piles and piles of bikes were laid out on the parking lot, the teams disassembled parts, including the wheels 
and frame, from them. Also spread out across the ground were tools and shopping carts as well as car doors. Team 
Sanchos, one of the teams participating in the event, plans to use past experience to help them this year. 
“Our team members had experience last year. They know the mistakes they performed and they are doing 
the best that they can do to prevent that this year, ” Earl Warren College sophomore Edgar Baez Mozo said.
Darren Anthony, a chemical engineering junior, and his team, the E-lemon-ators, are newcomers to the Derby. 
After attending a pre-event workshop last Tuesday, Anthony came to build with a general idea of which junk to 
grab and how to put it together, but the overall aspect of improvisation added something special to his experience.
“I think [building a Junkyard Derby car] is artistic in a way because it’s a special kind of creation when you 
have to think on your feet and do it quickly, ” Anthony told the UCSD Guardian. “Improvised things are their 
own kind of art. ”
For nanoengineering junior Robert Gilbert, this will be his third year attending this event. His team, Fast 
Like a NETS Car, is thinking of a new way to build the car.
“We are trying to think about how to put the whole thing together, ” Gilbert said. “ As far as inspiration goes, 
we just look at the junk and think, ‘Hey, I’ll make it work. ’”
Many of the teams are not from campus and some have been participating in this event year after year. The 
Triton Engineering Student Council welcomes anyone to apply and join. It would be happier if more people 
from the local San Diego area participated, but that is not its top priority. Many of the participants in the event 
are engineering majors, though the event encourages students from all majors to join.
“ Although this is a way for engineers to work on [something] other than coursework, a lot of the teams here 
have never worked with things such as an electric saw. There is an expert team of welders to weld for you and 
people helping you build your car, ” Borzone said.
On race day, Mandeville Hill will be piled with stacks of hay for the event. This year, each derby car must be 
able to seat two people, with one person navigating the team’s car and the other person collecting hanging rings 
and stuffed animals. The winning team will be determined by the fastest duo with the most points. Even if not 
every team can win, Borzone believes the experience pays off.
“I enjoy working with people here. I like getting people to do whatever they want to do and seeing that they 
can build, ” Borzone said.CONTACT THE EDITOR
TEIKO Y AKOBSON
features@ucsdguardian.org
Racin g Their 
Way toFinals
by Alvin Chan // Contributing Writer
Photos by Kyle Szeto and Jesus Pacheco 
readers can contact
AL VIN  CHAN   ALCHAN@ucsd.edu FEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 18, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
wpcarey.asu.edu/graduatereally!
Final application deadline is June 1!• Accountancy
• Business Analytics
• Finance
• Global Logistics• Information Management
• Management
• Real Estate Development
• TaxationIn as little as nine months, you can give your job search a boost with a master’s 
degree from Arizona State University’s top-ranked W. P. Carey School of Business.    80% of companies 
  are hiring business 
  graduates in 2015**National Association of Colleges and Employers (NACE) Job Outlook 2015 Survey
8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 18, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEA TURES
To the Moon 
and
Beyond
For some university students, the sky is hardly the limit. As part of the Experimental 
Sounding Rocket Association’s Intercollegiate Rocket Engineering Competition, 
UCSD’s Students for the Exploration and Development of Space are set to launch a 
liquid-fueled rocket with a 3-D-printed engine between June 24 and 27 in Green River, Utah. 
For anyone not already aware, this is a feat that even NASA has yet to accomplish and which 
will set a world record if the rocket makes it far enough into the air. To Muir College senior 
and SEDS President Deepak Atyam, a successful 3-D-printed engine could be revolutionary 
in driving down costs of rocket-launching — something that would drastically help make 
space travel more feasible.
 “We think this has a huge role in reducing the costs to access space, ” Atyam said. “By be -
ing able to reduce the costs of one of the most complex components of a launch vehicle — the 
rocket engine — we can immensely reduce the cost to get any type of payload to orbit. ”
 It’s a vitally important consequence of the project and one which Atyam thinks will 
serve as an example of how rocket-launching and economical spending are not mutually 
exclusive. Because the ultimate goal of SEDS and many professional space organizations is 
to explore space and colonize other planets, it’s important to demonstrate that spaceflight 
is financially possible. 
 “We really are moving quickly to being able to colonize the moon or Mars, and it’s only 
when we get our minds around the notion that we have the technology to do all of it, it isn’t 
far-fetched anymore, ” Atyam said.
SEDS developed the rocket engine, “Ignus, ”  which is made out of a nickel-chromium alloy 
called Inconel 718, over roughly a year and half and first tested it on April 18, 2015. Atyam 
believes the test was successful but said that SEDS is still analyzing its data to verify its results. 
He added that the test was a landmark for both academia and industry due to the number of 
new features used along with the engine, including different methods for weight reduction 
and optimization. With the continued help of some advisors from UCSD, San Diego State and 
NASA, SEDS hopes to successfully launch its rocket in June and, in doing so, quell some of 
the skepticism about the costs of these kinds of projects.
“Y ou just need to put the capital behind it, and that’s where people like us come in. We’re 
showing people that we can do it as students, [so] why can’t you guys do it as professionals?” 
Atyam added. “ And we’re pushing them to being able to develop this technology faster and 
faster — not us specifically or directly, but we have a contributing role in doing that: That’s 
what’s exciting. ”
According to Sixth College freshman and SEDS business manager Darren Charrier, 
NASA ’s Marshall Space Flight Center provided SEDS with a research grant and funding for 
the engine. For a group that financed its first rocket solely off of chicken barbecue sales, this 
shows the greater esteem and international attention SEDS has begun to garner. The group’s 
Kickstarter for Vulcan-1, the name of the rocket body, also reflects this; it’s raised over $22,000 
so far, which is roughly $7,000 more than its original goal. 
Additionally, Charrier said that SEDS will set a world record for 3-D-printed engines if 
Vulcan-1 flies over 30 feet, which is the current world record for a rocket with this type of 
engine. Its targeted height, though, is 10,000 feet. If that seems like a modest goal compared 
to space travel, SEDS is aware of it and already working on surpassing it: Charrier’s long-term 
plan is to help SEDS put a lander on the moon.
“That project is going to start off next year. There’s two parts: We’re building a six-unit 
cube satellite to go around the moon — it’s going to go in lunar orbit and service our com -
munications array, and that is being worked on currently, ” Charrier said.  “Once the people 
are done building on the rocket body, they’re going to transition over to designing and 
building our lander. ”
The lander, which Charrier estimates will take about four to five years to successfully end 
up on the moon, is what is called a “soft lander, ” meaning that it will slowly touch down on 
the lunar surface. The goal of the project is to send back video imaging — something that 
scientists in the industry have told Charrier is important, considering the paltry amount of 
information that we actually have about the moon.
It’s an ambitious project but one that Atyam says has a lot of potential sponsors from large 
companies. Given the group’s extraordinary trajectory, the project may not be as unrealistic 
as many might see it. While part of the group works on this project, other sections of the club 
will continue to develop rockets with 3-D-printed engines.
“We do what we do because we love what we’re doing. We’re all really passionate about 
space, space exploration, new technologies. We don’t do this just to put something on a 
resume, ” Atyam said. “People stay in the club because they really want to do something that 
makes a difference. ”
WRITTEN BY JENNIFER GRUNDMAN // ASSOCIATE COPY EDITOR
PHOTOS USED WITH PERMISSION FROM SEDS
readers can contact
Jennifer Grundman  Jagrundm@ucsd.edu CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 18, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
PRIDES WITH MAGIC GIANTMON, MAY 18  8pmTahrirCAMPUS
CALENDAR
MAY 18 - MAY 242015 POWERED BY THE CHANCELLOR’S OFFICE AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guar dian
Calendar
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar @
ucsdgu ardian .orgMON5.18 WED5.20 TUE5.19
9:30am
TRITON JUNKYARD DERBY 2015 -MANDEVILLE 
HILL
Triton Engineering Student Council is proud to 
present the 12th Annual Junkyard Derby! Form a team, build a derby car out of junk, and race it against other teams for a chance to be the 12th 
Annual Junkyard Derby Champion!
6pm
EVENING WITH EXPERTS: STARTUP FUNDING 
101 - THE BASEMENT, MANDEVILLE CENTER, 
B202
Navid Alipour is the Co-founder and Managing 
Partner at Analytics Ventures. Mr. Alipour will be discussing various funding support options for Startups outside of venture capitalists and angel 
investors, such as Small Business Innovation 
Research, crowdsourcing, loans, and grants. 
8pm
PRIDES WITH MAGIC GIANT - THE LOFT
Prides is made up of Stewart Brock (piano, lead vocals), Callum Wiseman (guitar, piano, vocals) and Lewis Gardiner (drums). On the 17th of February 2014, the band released the EP named "The Seeds 
You Sow" which contains 3 songs. Their song Out of 
the Blue is in FIFA 15.12pm
NATIVE SPACE AND AMERICA - 
CROSS-CULTURAL CENTER, COMUNIDAD RM
Spend your afternoon joining in a discussion of 
Native Space and America, with keynote speaker Prof. Natchee Blu Barnd, from the Department of Ethnic Studies at Oregon State University. Follow the 
link below for more information!
6pm
SOUP HARMONY - PRICE CENTER WEST 
BALLROOM B
Join us and taste delicious soup from Afghanistan, 
Bangladesh, China, Indonesia, Japan, Mauritius, Russia, South Korea, Taiwan, and Turkey! This event 
is free and open to all UCSD undergraduates!
6:30pm
MENTAL HEALTH MATTERS MONTH: HOW TO 
HELP A FRIEND AND CAPS SPEAKER - THE 
ZONE
Throughout the month, join the UC San Diego 
community and California as we spread awareness about the importance of mental health. Pick up a 
Green Ribbon to wear at The Zone, CAPS, the 
Colleges, or at any event!
FRI5.22
5pm
UBIC RESEARCH EXPO - CSE, ROOM 1202
Are you looking for a research position? Do you want advice on research, graduate school, and industry? If so, come to the UBIC Research Expo! A panel of graduate students in fields including Bioinformatics, Biology, Bioengineering, and Computer Science will be presenting their current research projects and will be answering any questions you may have. Many of the members of the panel are also looking to recruit undergraduate research assistants for the summer and the 2015-2016 school year, so if you want a chance to network be sure to come! Free pizza will be provided!9am
SVRC: LISA LINARES UCSD CERTIFYING 
OFFICIAL - STUDENT VETERANS RESOURCE 
CENTER
Learn about financial aid available to veterans and 
their families with Lisa Linares. Location: Old 
Student Center, Room 217
10am
MENTAL HEALTH MATTERS MONTH: RECOVERY 
WEEK & MENTAL HEALTH FAIR - LIBRARY 
WALK
Check out our Speak Up Reach Out Art Show.7
2pm
TECH TOOLS FOR A LEARNING EDGE - GREEN TABLE RM, PC WEST, LEVEL 2
Students will learn how to navigate â□□tech 
toolsâ□□ necessary for engaging presentations, assignments, and collaboration. Also, the students will learn how to create a variety of tech-based 
projects and trouble shoot along the way through 
communication and exploration of the tools we have 
to share. Presented by Amy Smith, Teacher Leader, 
Riverview Elementary School
THU5.21
9am
TRANSLATIONAL MEDICINE SYMPOSIUM - 
TELEMEDICINE BUILDING
The 2015 Translational Medicine Symposium is 
intended to inform undergraduate students of opportunities to pursue translational medicine within academia, industry, and the medical field. To this end 
we have assembled an impressive set of speakers 
including the director of the Clinical and Translational Research Institute, chief officers and directors from Illumina, Viacyte, and Human Longevity, as well as 
leading medical professionals from UCSD, 
Cedars-Sinai, and USC. In addition to speakers, we will also be conducting an M.D./Ph.D panel, a tour of the Center for the Future of Surgery, and workshops.
4pm
STUDENT ORG, LEADERSHIP AND SERVICE 
AWARDS - PC EAST BALLROOM
Annual celebration of all the achievements UC San 
Diego student organizations has accomplished and contributed to our community.
6:30pm
FLYING SAMARITANS BENEFIT CONCERT - PC 
BALLROOM WEST
Admission: free! But donations are greatly 
appreciated. All donations made from the event will go towards the care for patients in Ensenada, Mexico, as well as orphanage homes.
THE LOFT, PRICE CENTER
10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 18, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
CLASSIFIEDS$
Guar dian Classi/f_ieds ar e FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifieds
BIKES
GT Cruiser 24” VANTAGE Early 90s - $440. 
GT cruiser 24in early 90s Mo hawk rim rear 
sealed. Tuned and Ready to Roll. Listing ID: 
147660290 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Currie Ezip Electric Bike w/ Li Ion Battery - 
$450. The bike has been upgraded to a 24 
volt lithium ion battery. The battery pack 
alone is worth more than what I am asking 
for the bike. They have a range of 25-40mis 
depending on how much you are using the 
battery. The bike has had several upgrades 
and has been well cared for. Listing ID: 
147660287 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
2013 Scott Contessa Bike Carbon Used 
Small - $1550. This is a used bike but with 
very little miles on it. Like new! It was only used a few times then stored. Listing ID: 
147660286 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
ELECTRONICS
MacPro 6-Core Intel Xeon - $3500. MacPro 
Computer. Purchased summer of 2014 for 
professional video editing. Getting out of 
the business. Not much usage. Listing ID: 
147377500 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Samsung Galaxy Camera - $170. Wi-Fi 
Android 4.1.2 (Jellybean). 4.8” HD 
Super Clear Display. 1080p HD Video. 
16.3-Megapixel Backside-Illuminated 
CMOS Sensor. Full HD Video Recording with 
HDMI Output for Playback. Upload Directly 
to Facebook. 8 GB of Built-In Storage and 
Wi-Fi. Camera is in excellent condition, no 
scratches and all cables/charger/original box included. Listing ID: 148488929 at ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
32” LCD 1080p TVs Used in Perfect Working 
Condition - $250. TVs on sale. 32” LCD with 
HDMI 1080p. Have few with built in DVD 
player. Listing ID: 145648501 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
AUTO
1965 Ford Mustang - $15000. 1965 GT Ford 
Mustang, front wheel disc brakes, power 
steering, 4 barrel carb, 289 v8 4.6 liter, 
dual exhaust, 4 speed manual, upgraded 
Holly carb sitting on top of a Holly Street 
Dominator manifold, Mallory distributor. 
Ivy green with tan interior and black carpet -
ing. Listing ID: 149142892 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
BLU 84-92 CORVETTE BUMPER - $890. Up 
for sale here is a very nice complete original 
dark blue front bumper for 1984 through 
1993 Corvette. Listing ID: 149142546 at 
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
1971 Corvette 4 Speed 350 - $19710. 
Including new Goodyears, New Front 
Brake Pads, New Brake Master Cylinder, 
Rebuilt Front Calipers, New Front Shocks, 
New Front Stabilizer Link Pins, New Gas 
Tank, New Gas Sending Unit, Fresh Oil and 
Stp Oil Filter. Best offer so far is $15.8K. 
$16K drives it away. Listing ID: 149142381 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
informationWANT TO WORK 
ACROSS THE STREET 
FROM THE BEACH?INTERNSHIPS
25 hours a week www.icnglobal.netPaid summer internship 
opportunity. San Diego-based 
tech startup seeking a journalism 
or communications major.Summer internships available in 
London, Berlin, Prague, Madrid, 
Istanbul, Seoul, Shanghai. 
6 month paid internships in 
Australia. Unpaid internships in 
Manhattan, New York.
marie@neuacademic.comContact Roar at 212-268-0685 
roar@icncareer.comcrossword
ACROSS
1 Devious, in a way
4 Bad states
9 You often see a lap in one
14 Bullet in a deck
15 Strange
16 Kind of trader
17 Royal sleep disturbance, in a tale
18 Break from soldiers’ training?
20 Ill-advised
22 Flames’ org.
23 Gives the slip
24 Clown settlement?
27 Old waste allowance
28 Resemble strongly
33 ID necessity, often
36 Plow into
37 Like Chinese dishes, frequently
38 International affair?
42 It may be gross in med sch.
43 OPEC member
44 Development units
45 Picks
47 Monopoly card
49 O. Henry stories?
54 Pizza chain
58 Like Bizet’s only symphony
59 Night light
60 Copperfield’s limo?
63 Short sentence about a long term
64 Center of Cleveland?
65 Some plots
66 “I reckon not”
67 Noodleheads
68 “Siddhartha” author
69 It’s up to youDOWN
1 “Mr. Smith Goes to Washington” director
2 Shore thing
3 Dough-raising need
4 __ story
5 Fine point
6 August comment
7 Warbling sound
8 IPO overseer
9 Malibu and Tahoe
10 Guadalajara greeting
11 Ideal for Joshua trees
12 “Now that makes sense”
13 Trio in an NBA game
19 Entitle, as an altered file
21 Ancient Indo-European
25 Swift reptile
26 Vividly colored fish
29 Used as an elevator
30 Blob’s lack
31 Rubberneck
32 Eye cells
33 NEA supporters
34 Fine-tune
35 Fall birthstone
36 Itinerary abbr.
39 Have a better crew than
40 Burkina __
41 See 6-Down
46 Group with common interests
47 Some booth occupants
48 Proverbs follower: Abbr.
50 Heiress, perhaps
51 Equestrian tools
52 Maker of Advantix cameras
53 Blizzardlike
54 Urban hazard
55 Proverbial thorn
56 “A Death in the Family” novelist
57 England’s Portsmouth Harbour and 
others
61 “As if!”
62 Mariner’s hdg.
asgraphicstudioApply to
asgraphicstudio@ucsd.edu
*include resume & design samples/ portfolio
graphic
artistswantedgraphic
artistswanted
www.ucsdguardian.org/advertisingT urn Your ACTIONS
into Words
Advertise your event, your product!
Advertise yourself withSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 18, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
SAFE
DRIVERS
NEEDED
(858)822-5098Get the perfect part-time job:
• $13.35/hour 
• On campus • Flexible schedule• Paid training • UCSD students only• Hiring now for summer training
 Details at shuttledrivers.ucsd.edu
Returned Peace Corps Volunteer Diana Gomez will
discuss how to strengthen your resume and select an  
assignment that fits your skills. You will also learn  
valuable tips to guide you through the application process.Launch Your Career  
With the Peace Corp s
Application Workshop  
University of California - San Diego
Thursday, May 21
11 a.m. to 1 p.m.
Career Services Center
Round Room 
 
855.855.1961 | www.peacecorps.govLife is calling. How far will you go?faster than your competitors is cer -
tainly more challenging than your 
average mile jog. Being able to mas -
ter block starts or correcting your 
form and technique to shave even 
just a tenth of a second off your 
time takes determination and drive. 
For anyone that claims it doesn’t 
require much skill, … try running 
down a 30-meter runway with a 
giant 13-foot pole in your hand and 
propelling yourself over a bar. That 
certainly takes skill, practice and 
focus. Every movement from the 
point you start your approach has 
to be correct. ”
Bowen : “The mental side of 
track is huge, too. If you’re not 
confident in yourself when you step 
up to compete, chances are you’re 
going to have a bad day. Everyone 
is guilty of this at one point or 
another, but we all have to stay 
upbeat even if things don’t go our 
way. Mental strength is extremely 
important to improving, especially 
on days where you want to drop 
dead after practice. ”
Howe : “In track, athletes truly 
push their bodies to the limit both 
mentally and physically. We train 
year-round, and each of our failures is a test of mental and physical 
perseverance that affects future 
success. Some of the most amazing 
athletes in the world compete in 
track and field, there’s no denying 
it — we have Usain Bolt, one of the 
single most recognizable athletes 
around the world. ”
The strength of track athletes 
is undeniable; it just takes a basic 
knowledge of this strength and skill 
to appreciate the sport.
Bowen : “I think if people knew 
the amount of work every one of 
us puts in, they’ d at least respect 
the sport more. As far as apprecia -
tion, I think it’s a hit or miss with 
people. Some people just enjoy 
other things, and that’s okay — 
track isn’t for everyone! Competing 
in the sport is easily the best way to 
appreciate it. ”
Snover : “Because track is mostly 
based on marks, too, not having 
any knowledge of decent marks 
in each event can make it hard 
to understand what’s going on in 
a competition. For some events, 
like hammer throw, people who 
have never been involved in track 
wouldn’t have any idea what that 
event entails or what a hammer 
even is. I didn’t even know what one looked like until I got to col -
lege. ”
Bowen : “My roommate once 
said we make it look so easy, but in 
reality, what we do is really hard. 
Anyone can sprint a short distance, 
jump into sand or throw a metal 
ball. To do all of these well, though, 
… that’s a different story. ”
Snover : “Many might think 
track ‘isn’t a real sport’ because 
of how ‘anyone can do it’ because 
of the supposed ‘lack of skill’ it 
requires or because there seems to 
be no true competition with oth -
ers. I say that everyone can physi -
cally run, yes. However, in track, 
you must have the mental and 
physical capacity to run, jump and 
throw with everything you have, 
the determination to fight through 
the pain of a race, the focus to 
maintain your skills and the drive 
to not break down when putting 
your body to those limits so you 
can fight with your competitors 
and win. Track is most definitely a 
sport, and anyone that doubts that 
can come try to do my practices for 
a week and tell me what they think 
afterward!”Perspectives: Nash Howe, Matt Bowen and Ellexi Snover
Despite Loss of  Star Player, Tritons Remain Among D-II Elites
Fifteen Freshmen Seek to Improve Poor Record Next Season▶ MIND OF AN ATHLETE,  from page 12
with a 9–7 win. The Tritons came out 
of their hosted event a more uniform 
team and managed to maintain their 
No. 12 ranking in the league.
The UC Davis Invitational turned 
out to be an-eye opening event for the 
Tritons, as they only won one of the 
three games that they played there; 
they beat Azusa Pacific with a score 
of 15–8 but lost to UC Davis and UC 
Berkeley. Despite the losses, the Tritons 
reached a season-peak ranking at No. 
11. At the UC Irvine Invitational, the 
Tritons fared worse, as they won only 
one of four matches, managing to beat 
Michigan but losing to UCSB, Loyola 
Marymount University and University 
of Hawaii. This tough weekend made 
the women’s record plummet and 
brought them down to No. 16. 
The Tritons won other matches 
after the UC Irvine Invitational but 
remained on the negative spectrum. 
As a result, their ranking dropped even 
further to No. 19. The Tritons then ap -
proached the Claremont Convergence 
with more determination and were 
able to turn things around, as they won 
three of their four matches — their only loss coming on a final heart-
wrenching score of 8–9 in overtime. 
Despite these wins, the Tritons’ record 
still dropped them down to a No. 20 
ranking, where it would stay for the 
rest of the season. 
The Aztec Invite and the remainder 
of the season reflected the Tritons’ per -
formance up to this point: Although 
they were able to win some games, they 
were never consistent enough to sus -
tain winning streaks. Their biggest loss 
came toward the end of the season at 
the Harper Cup, when the Tritons fell 
to SDSU after only being able to hold 
onto the cup for a single year. 
Things turned around for the 
Tritons in the WWPA championships, 
where they were able to win all three 
of their matches and claim the title. 
The title allowed UCSD to play in the 
NCAA Championship Play-In Game. 
After defeating Whittier College in 
the play-in game, the Tritons once 
again competed in the NCAA tourna -
ment, finishing in eighth place for the 
second consecutive year to conclude 
the season.
UCSD was led by standout junior 
goalkeeper Courtney Miller, who 
recorded 402 saves, a single-season school record, along with 29 assists. 
The WWPA player of the year also 
eclipsed the 1000-saves mark this sea -
son, becoming the all-time saves leader 
in UCSD women’s water polo history. 
After losing senior attacker Sarah 
Lizotte and her 92 goals from the 
2013–14 season, and with senior 
attacker Jolene Guiliana’s production 
declining slightly from 73 to 58 goals, 
UCSD relied more heavily on both ju -
nior attacker Laurel Kistler, who led the 
team in goals and steals, and junior at -
tacker Julia Kirkland, who was second 
on the team with 63 goals. Guiliana 
still led the team in assists, with 56 over 
the season. Sophomore attacker Lani 
Tittle, sophomore center Lauren Boyer 
and junior attacker Emma Sasson all 
had notable contributions to the team’s 
success as well. 
Despite having a questionable 
offense at times, UCSD was saved 
throughout the season by Miller’s 
incredible performances. With her 
and several of their leaders coming 
back, and despite the loss of Guiliana 
to graduation, the Tritons will look 
to continue their three-year streak of 
competing in the NCAA Champion -
ships.   
UCSD men’s volleyball had a 
disappointing season overall, as they 
finished with a 2–26 record, going 
0–22 in conference in the Mountain 
Pacific Sports Federation. The Tritons 
accumulated a total of 1,718 points 
in their games, taking 12 sets in the 
process. Of their 26 losses, 20 came in 
straight sets, and none were pushed to 
five sets. However, with 15 of the 20-
man team being freshmen, this year’s 
team will be looked upon as a still 
developing squad who gained valuable 
experience.
The season began on Jan. 7 in 
Irvine as the Tritons faced up against 
Concordia University. Despite losing 
the match 3–1, the Tritons showed 
promise as they pushed hard to take 
the third set 26–24. That promise 
showed in the following week’s match, 
as UCSD secured its first win of the 
season against Grand Canyon Univer -
sity. It took a lot of resilience from the 
Tritons who had to come from two sets 
behind to secure a 3–2 win. 
After this, however, the Tritons 
were subjected to a series of eight 
straight set defeats including a 3–0 
loss to No. 5 University of Southern 
California in UCSD’s first home game of the season on Jan. 22. UCSD, despite 
the losses, continued to show promise 
as the players pulled off some good 
performances against some renowned 
opposition. Against 2012 and 2013 
back-to-back champions UC Irvine, 
UCSD rode the heroics of sophomore 
middle-blocker Shayne Beamer, whose 
combinations of kills and solo blocks 
gave UCSD a 25–21 second-set win. 
The Tritons eventually fell in four sets 
to UC Irvine. 
During that homestand, the Tritons 
were also unlucky to fall to Stanford 
University 3–1, in a match where 
freshman opposite Tanner Syfestad 
produced a season-best 16 kills. On 
Feb. 25, the Tritons produced their 
second win of the season as they took 
down Holy Names University in three 
sets. The Tritons produced a .408 hit -
ting ratio in this game. 
After this, however, the team con -
tinued to be outplayed by opposition, 
suffering three back-to-back set losses 
to UC Santa Barbara, UCLA and USC, 
respectively. UCSD did bring out some 
great performances in what was left of 
the season. Against California Baptist 
University, the Tritons took the first set 
but eventually fell in four. Freshman middle-blocker Alec Flowers produced 
an impressive 15 kills in that match in 
his first collegiate start. 
Despite falling to No. 1 University 
of Hawaii in four, the Tritons showed 
character to take the first set and 
resilience to push the much-favored 
team all the way. Even in their last 
match of the season against the 
MPSF regular-season champions UC 
Irvine, the blue and gold managed to 
out-block their opponents 8.5 to 4.0, 
showing that there is a solid founda -
tion of talent to be built upon.
The star of the season was Syfes -
tad, as he produced an outstanding 
2.71 kills-to-set ratio, over one point 
higher than any other player on the 
team. The freshman also produced a 
team-high 299 points for the Tritons 
and 0.84 block-to-set ratio. Fresh -
man setter Milosh Stojcic produced 
a team-high of 417 assists, and 
freshman libero Tyler Bird displayed 
the team’s highest dig total with an 
impressive 140 digs. 
UCSD will bring this young 
group of players along in their sec -
ond season next season, as they look 
to be more competitive than this 
past season in the MPSF.▶ RECAPS , from page 12SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
MARCUS THUILLIER  
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 18, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
For a vast majority of our popu -
lation, running in circles has little 
appeal. Thus, track and field tends 
to get written off as a “lesser” sport 
— it lacks the constant action and 
spectacle that the typical American 
sports fan desires. Is track and field 
really just running, though? Senior 
sprinter-thrower Ellexi Snover, 
freshman jumper Matt Bowen and 
senior thrower Nash Howe beg to 
differ. For those who are convinced 
that track is “boring” or isn’t a true 
sport, here’s the real deal:
Bowen : “I think track tends to 
be underappreciated because a lot 
of people just don’t find running 
in circles interesting. Field events, 
especially, involve more standing 
and waiting than actual competi -
tion. People like action, but you 
can’t really understand the action 
and intensity on the track until 
you’ve been placed in our shoes. ”
Snover : “There’s this precon -
ceived notion that track is just run -
ning. There isn’t a giant following 
for the sport, either due to a lack 
of major competitions other than 
the Olympics; competitions also 
tend to last anywhere from four 
to 10 hours, and because people’s 
interests don’t always encompass 
every event, most wouldn’t stay 
and watch for that long. People just 
might not know how exciting dif -
ferent events can be. ”
Howe : “Track tends to be super -
seded by larger, more historical 
team sports, like football or base -
ball. It’s one of those sports that 
most people pick up on in high 
school. There [are]n’t a significant 
number of young athletes compet -
ing in track as compared to soccer 
or baseball, for example. I honestly 
think that track is making a come -
back here, though; it’s fairly visible 
at the Division-II national level 
now, and the competitiveness is 
getting more and more intense. ”
From an outside perspective, 
track might seem monotonous, but 
this isn’t truly the case — it takes a 
wide range of strengths and talents 
to make a successful team.
Bowen : “Track athletes have a 
variety of strengths and weaknesses 
based on their event. It’s such a ver -
satile sport in that sense. Y ou have 
to be able to push through crazy 
amounts of pain, be it from the 
past 11 laps you ran as fast as you 
could or the pounding your legs 
just took from jumping repeatedly. 
Distance runners need some insane 
endurance while sprinters, jumpers 
and throwers need to be able to go 
from zero to 100 in a split second. 
If pushing your body physically 
and mentally to its limits every 
time you compete doesn’t qualify 
as a ‘real sport, ’ I’ d really like to see 
what those people consider a sport. ”
Snover : “Sprinting is more than 
just running. It’s pushing your body 
to the most extreme limits — push -
ing your muscles to full capacity 
to move your body down the track Track and  
Field: More 
Than Meets 
the Eye
Ka tie Potts
kpotts@ucsd.eduMind   of  an   A thlete         
UCSD men’s tennis finished their season with a 12–9 record, good for fourth in the 
region and 21st nationally. The team also had an uneven season, alternating short 
winning and losing streaks throughout the year before posting a dominant four-game 
win streak at the end of March. Unfortunately, this streak was negated by back-to-back losses to 
close out the year. UCSD assistant coach Tavi Popaluca was awarded the ITA Division-II West 
Region Assistant Coach of the Y ear recognition for the Tritons’ good season.
UCSD was led by senior Axel Bouillin, ranked 10th for the West Region. He finished 
the year with a 7–10 record at the one spot for the Tritons. He combined in the double with 
senior Rajeev Herekar at the one spot in double to finish the season as the 10th ranked 
doubles pair in Division-II, as well as the third best in the West Region. They combined to 
go 12–6 at the one spot with a nine-game win streak and reached the quarterfinals at the 
Pacific Coast Doubles.
Bouillin was helped in the singles by freshman Eric Tseng, who finished ranked 16th 
in the West Region and junior Horea Porutiu, ranked 17th. Tseng went 8–11, and Poru -
tiu was 13–6, playing mostly at the two and three spot, respectively.  
Herekar led the way at the four spot, compiling an 8–6 record. Herekar also earned 
Capital One Academic All-District Honors at the end of the season for excellence both 
on and off the court. 
Senior Mark Meyer (6–8) and sophomore Alexandre Miaule (9–4) shared time 
at the five spot, while senior Kona Luu (9–4) spent most of the season at the sixth 
spot. The players were often shuffled around, however, and played at multiple spots 
throughout the year.
In the doubles, Miaule and Porutiu occupied the two spots for most of the 
season, posting a 10–6 record. Luu paired with Tseng (8–5) and Meyer (3–3) at 
the three spot throughout the year.
With six seniors graduating, the men’s tennis squad will look depleted next 
year. The top pair in doubles and number-one singles player are leaving, so the 
Tritons will look for Tseng and Porutiu to lead the team into the upcoming 
season.SEASON RECAPS
Compiled by Gurkirat Singh // Senior Staff Writer
Liam Leahy // Staff Writer 
Marcus Thuillier // Sports Editor
Kyra Scott Among Strong 
Group of  Returners for 
Upcoming Tennis Season  
Water Polo Ends Season with NCAA Championship AppearanceMen’s Tennis Will Need to Regain 
Momentum After Losing Six Seniors UCSD women’s tennis finished the season 
ranked 25th nationally and seventh in the 
Intercollegiate Tennis Association West 
Region in Division-II play. The Tritons had an uneven 
season, despite putting together an impressive six-game 
winning streak early in the season. They alternated two- 
and three-game winning and losing streaks to finish at a 
mediocre 12–13 overall on the season. UCSD also played 
seven NCAA Division-I opponents on the season and 
went 2–5 in those matchups.
The Tritons were led by Junior Kyra Scott at the num -
ber one spot. The team leader posted a 13–5 record on the 
year while battling an ankle injury and finished ranked fifth 
in the region and 21st nationally.
Scott paired with sophomore Britta Moser to lead UCSD’s 
No.1 double’s pair. They finished 14–8 on the season, ranked 
third in the region and 16th nationally. Moser played most of 
the season at the three spot and had a 16–9 record, making her 
the winningest Triton over the season.
UCSD’s team was completed by freshman Jasmine Hosseini, 
ranked 13th in the region and usually playing in the two spot. 
She had a 14–10 record on the season, even seeing some action at 
the one spot after Scott was injured.
The team was usually completed by sophomore Nava 
Nowamooz (8–17) at the four spot, freshman Nousha Nowamooz 
(4–18) at the five spot and sophomore Shannon Theisen (7–17) at 
the sixth spot.
In doubles, the pair formed by Nava Nowamooz and Theisen 
posted a (9–15) record playing in the two spot, and Hosseini and 
Nousha Nowamooz had an even 12–12 record at the three spot.
With a year more of experience and no seniors graduating, our 
women’s tennis will look to improve on this season’s results when they 
take the court next year.
The UCSD women’s water polo team had an impressive season and, despite 
facing adversity, won the Western Water Polo Association title for the 
fourth time over the past five years. The team competed at the Division-II 
National Collegiate Women’s Water Polo Championship, eventually placing eighth.
The season started when the UCSD squad rode out to compete at the UC Santa 
Barbara Winter Invitational. During the invitational, UCSD managed to maintain 
its No. 13 preseason rank as the Tritons competed against Arizona State Univer -
sity, Cal State Bakersfield, University of Michigan-Ann Arbor and Cal State Long 
Beach. The women started off the season with a 2–2 weekend after they were able 
to defeat Michigan 9–5 and Cal State Long Beach 8–6. 
The Tritons’ first home game turned out to be a success, as they defeated Hart -
wick College by twice their score, winning by a comfortable 14–7 margin. With 
this win, the blue and gold were able to raise their rank to No. 12. UCSD found 
similar success in the Triton Invitational. They were able to win two of the four 
games they played: beating Marist College with an 11–5 win and San Diego State 
See MIND OF AN ATHLETE , page 11 See REC APS , page 11  
PHOTO BY NHAN NGUYEN / UCSD GUARDIAN
PHOTO BY JONATHAN GAO / UCSD GUARDIAN
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE / UCSD GUARDIAN