VOLUME 48, ISSUE 51  TUESDAY, MAY 5, 2015 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
WHEN IN 
DROUGHT
WITH CALIFORNIA HEADED 
TOWARD THE WORST 
DROUGHT CONDITIONS IT’S 
EVER FACED, THE UCSD 
GUARDIAN GIVES AN UPDATED 
LOOK ON JUST HOW BAD IT 
REALLY IS FOR CALIFORNIANS.
BIG   BROTHER, CHECK  IN
POSTSEASON  BLUESA  NEW SOCIAL  MEDIA  FEA TURE
looking  ahead  to  next  season OPINION,  P age   3
SPORTS,  P age  11
TUESDAY
H 68 L 56WEDNESDAY
H 67 L 56
THURSDAY
H 65 L 56FRIDAY
H 67 L 57
FORECAST
VERBATIM
THAT BINARY 
IS THE FORCE 
BEHIND 
CHECKING 
OFF ‘MALE’ 
OR ‘FEMALE’ 
ON OFFICIAL 
DOCUMENTATION — OR THE 
FORCE THAT HAD CHUQUITA 
AND PHILLIAN DISCRIMINATED 
AGAINST.”
- VINCENT PHAM
BOY, INTERRUPTED
OPINION , PAGE 3
INSIDE
DIGITAL MONKEYS  .......... 2
QUICK TAKES  .................. 3
CAMPUSLY  ...................... 7
CLASSIFIEDS  ................ 10
W. WATER POLO  ............ 12“
FEA TURES,  P AGE  6
PHOTO COURTESY DROUGHT MONITORSUN GOD FESTIVAL
Damian Kulash of OK Go performs the band’s song, “This Too Shall Pass,” to a crowd of UCSD students at Sun God Festival 2015. 
Photo by Jonathan Gao /UCSD Guardian.
Tritons Place High at 
Conference Championships
The UCSD men’s and women’s track and field 
teams finished their regular season this past weekend 
at San Francisco State’s Cox Stadium, competing in 
the California Collegiate Athletic Association cham -
pionships. The men’s first-place finish marked the 
end of Chico State’s 11-year winning streak, while 
the women placed third overall behind first-place 
Chico State and Cal Poly Pomona at the end of the 
three-day meet. 
Senior Nash Howe and junior Haley Libuit kicked 
things off for the Tritons on Thursday with first-place 
finishes in the men’s and women’s javelin. Howe won 
the javelin for the third consecutive year with a throw 
of 208 feet. Howe, the only automatic NCAA champi -
onship qualifier, already solidified his spot earlier in 
the season at the San Diego Collegiate Challenge with 
an astounding 222-foot throw. Libuit won her event 
with a personal best throw of 141-1/2, good for fifth 
on the UCSD all-time list.  
“The trick with javelin is that less is more … so 
I [had] to relax, ” Libuit told the UCSD Athletics 
Department. “I guess I was more relaxed [on 
Thursday], which is what helped. ” 
Sophomore Dan Golubovic also had a solid fin -
ish in the javelin, with a throw of 180-2/3, good for 
third place, while senior Travis Vandegriff took fifth. 
On the women’s side, senior Ellexi Snover finished 
in fourth with a 125-1/4 throw. After the first day 
of competition, the men were in second while the 
women were in first. 
The second day of events proved to be equally 
exciting, with several Tritons earning podium fin -
ishes and setting personal and school records, start -
ing with the women’s 10k run. For the second year in a row, junior Paige Hughes finished in first place, this 
time with a new personal best of 36:02.64, beating 
the second-place finisher sophomore Sadie Gastelum 
from Chico State by nearly two seconds. 
“I just had this stress coming in, ” Hughes said. 
“There was tougher competition going into it this 
year. … Y ou’re doing it for your team to score as 
many points as [you] can. ” 
The team notion was exactly what head coach 
Tony Salerno tried to emphasize, as well, telling the 
UCSD Athletics Department, “We put so much focus 
on the team aspect of track and field. It’s very much a 
group effort, and it paid off. ” 
In the men’s 10k, junior Tareq Alwafai and senior 
Tanner Collins, making their collegiate debuts in 
this event, finished in second and third, respectively, 
with impressive times of 31:33.72 and 31:45.24. Both 
men also hold NCAA provisional qualifying times 
for the 5k. 
On the field, the Triton men swept the competi -
tion in the high jump, with freshman Luis Carson (6-6 
3/4), junior Sean Cook (6-4 3/4), freshman Raymond 
Silver (6-4 3/4), freshman Ruthvik Sunilkumar (6-4 
3/4) and Golubovic (6-4 3/4), taking the top-five 
spots, respectively. In the long jump, the men con -
tinued to perform well, with freshman Matt Bowen 
earning a provisional qualifying mark of 23-11 1/2 
and a third-place finish. Cook (22-9 3/4), senior Kyle 
Chiu (22-3/4) and sophomore Derek Van de Streek 
(21 3/4), finished not far behind in fourth, fifth and 
eighth, respectively. 
In the women’s heptathlon, senior Veronica Bradley 
finished in third place and improved her provision -
al qualifying score to 4,550 points, a season best.   B y  rosina garcia    Copy Editor
See TRACK , page 12SPORTSScientists 
Develop First
Algae-Based 
Surfboard SAN DIEGO
Cal-CAB presented San Diego 
Mayor Kevin Faulconer 
with the sustainable 
surfboard on Earth Day.
B Y  Simon Yu
Contributing Writer
See SURFBOARD , page 3California Center for Algae 
Biotechnology Scientists of UCSD, 
along with Arctic Foam, Solazyme, 
the U.S. Department of Energy 
and the Biofuels Action Awareness 
Network, have unveiled algae 
as an alternative to fossil fuels in 
the manufacturing of surfboards. 
The surfboards were first shown 
at Copley Symphony Hall on 
Earth Day to San Diego Mayor 
Kevin Faulconer during National 
Geographic’s “World’s Smart Cities: 
San Diego” documentary.
The majorative run-of-the-
mill surfboards are produced with 
polyurethane and, as a product of 
petroleum, a fossil fuel. However, 
according to the U.S. Department 
of Energy, 500,000 polyurethane 
surfboard cores are made each year, 
and these can be produced with 
a half liter of algal oil — a more 
sustainable resource, as reported 
by Stephen Mayfield, the Director        
of Cal-CAB. 
Following this innovation 
comes the possibility to utilize 
algae’s properties in the conversion 
to polyols to perhaps increase 
surfboard performance. However, 
these algae-based polyols also 
have the potential to make various 
foams. Some uses of polyols include 
sealants and vehicle interiors,       
even adhesives.
Mayfield, a surfer of 45 years, 
told the UCSD Guardian how the 
relationship of the surfer and nature 
is disjointed.
“ As a surfer, I never liked the idea 
that my connection with the ocean 
was through a plastic surfboard 
made from petroleum, ” Mayfield 
said. “That is not sustainable and 
damages the environment, the exact 
opposite of what surfing and the 
oceans are all about. ”
In a video by UCSD, Mayfield 
discussed how the venture was 
possible through the joint efforts 
of UCSD, Cal-CAB, Arctic Foam, 
Solazyme, the U.S. Department of 
Energy and the Biofuels Action 
Awareness Network.
“So this is the great thing about 
this project: Not any one of the 
groups that participated in it could 
have done this on their own, ” 
Mayfield said. “ As biologists, we can 
produce the algae oil, but then we 
need the chemist to convert that into 
polyols, then we need the surfboard 
companies to blow that into foam 
and shape the surfboard, we needed 
Solazyme — the big commercial 
algae company to give us enough oil 
to do this so we can do it at big scale 
— so that we could make a board 
that is sustainable and that comes 2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 5, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG N EWS
DIGITAL MONKEYS By Jeff Lau
Registration for SPRING Qtr is NOW open!
Register online at 
as.ucsd.edu/saferides
A.S. Safe Rides allows registered undergraduate 
stude nts to get 3 FREE rides per quarter.
Stude nts must register at least 24 hours
prior to their first ride. A.S. Safe Rides 
asucsd asucsd
DO Y OU TWEET? WE DO!
@UCSDGuar dian
@UCSDGuardianFOLLOWUS NOW!
...yes, now!
@UCSDGuardian#OMG! Follow us on Twitter #NOW! Researchers at the UCSD 
School of Medicine have found that 
e-cigarettes may prevent smokers 
from quitting. On April 16, the 
team concluded a year-long survey 
that was published in the American 
Journal of Public Health. 
  The study originally started in 
1990, and its aims were to gather 
information on smoking behavior 
for the California Department of 
Public Health. The survey from 
2014 was expanded to include the 
e-cigarette after its introduction and marketing in 2011. This study 
surveyed 1,000 smokers selected 
from public databases and examined 
their smoking behavior at two points 
that were a year apart. Dr. Wael 
Al-Delaimy, the lead researcher 
of the study, made the decision to 
expand the survey after seeing the 
publicity surrounding e-cigarettes 
and their advertised ability to aid a 
smoker in quitting.
Al-Delaimy discussed how the 
e-cigarette industry frequently 
makes false claims.
“Unlike other claims by the 
e-cigarette industry and advocates 
of vaping, the smokers in our study did worse if they have used 
e-cigarettes in the past compared 
to smokers who never used the 
product, ” Al-Delaimy stated. “The 
e-cigarette user was less likely to 
quit smoking or cut down on the 
number of cigarettes they smoke. ” 
The difference between 
e-cigarettes and traditional cigarettes 
is that e-cigarettes contain no 
tobacco; they do, however, contain 
nicotine. The risk of addiction 
to nicotine is what has scientists 
worried, especially as e-cigarettes 
are not a regulated substance.
The findings concluded that 
59 percent of users are less likely to quit smoking if they have used 
e-cigarettes when compared to 
smokers who have never used 
e-cigarettes. It also found that users 
of e-cigarettes were 49-percent less 
likely to decrease smoking. 
An article in The Boston Globe 
reported that two studies have been 
done in the past regarding the same 
subject, one in Italy and another in 
New Zealand. Both studies, however, 
concluded that e-cigarettes do help 
smokers quit or decrease their usage.
Michael Siegel, a Boston University 
professor who has studied tobacco for SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
Scientists are concerned that prolonged e-cigarette use could deter smokers from quitting and lead to nicotine addiction. 
B Y  Raahima Shoaib
Contributing Writer
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and 
Thursdays during the academic year by UCSD students 
and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this 
newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, 
without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2015, all 
rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible 
for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The 
views expressed herein do not necessarily represent 
the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of 
California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian 
is funded by advertising. It’s like Wednesday but worse.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.orgBusiness Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Aleksandra Konstantinovic
Andrew E. Huang  
Taylor Sanderson
Tina Butoiu
Kriti Sarin
Cassia Pollock
Marcus Thuillier
John Story
Teiko Yakobson
Jacqueline Kim
Kyle Somers
Nilu Karimi
Siddharth Atre
Jonathan Gao
Joselynn Ordaz
Sherman Aline
Elyse Yang
Annie Liu
Rosina Garcia
Jennifer Grundman
Laura Chow
Vincent PhamEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
  
Associate News Editor
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Social Media Coordinator
Training and Development
Page Layout
Charu Mehra, Allison Kubo
Distribution
Christopher Graves, Josef Goodyear
Copy Readers
Andrew Chao, Caroline Lee, Sage Christian, Marissa Barber, 
Heejung Lim
Editorial Assistants
Shelby Newallis, Karly Nisson, Mario Attie, Katie Potts,
 Allison KuboResearch Suggests E-Cigarette Usage Promotes Tobacco Use
IN BRIEFCOMPILED BY 
TINA BUTOIU //  NEWS EDITOR
KRITI SARIN // ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITOR
UCSD Sun God Festival 2015 headliner Snoop Dogg wore San Diego 
State attire while performing in front of over 20,000 UCSD students. 
According to an article by the San Diego Union-Tribune, Snoop Dogg 
sported the red and black Aztec colors to honor SDSU football player and 
college sophomore Malik Smith who benefited from The Snoop Y outh 
Football League. Another beneficiary of the program was SDSU alumnus 
Ronnie Hillman, who is currently playing for the Denver Broncos as a 
running back. 
According to the League’s website, Snoop Dogg founded the League 
in order to provide inner-city kids with an opportunity to participate in 
football and dance. Over 1,300 Los Angeles area kids enrolled during the 
opening season which began in September 2005.
Snoop Dogg’s son Cordell Broadus committed to UCLA as a running 
back this past February. Although Snoop is University of Southern California 
fan, he stated that he supports his son’s goal to play for USC’s rival team. Mary Looker gifted $1 million to the Stuart Art Collection as part of 
a long-term endowment fund for its maintenance and future expansion. 
Looker, who has been a member of the Friends of the Stuart Art 
Collection for the past 20 years, committed to initiate the art collection’s 
permanent fund in memory of her late husband, who was also involved 
in the organization. The outdoor public art collection currently consists 
of 18 sculptures located across campus and is entirely funded by 
monetary donations. 
Chancellor Pradeep Khosla expressed his gratitude to Looker and the 
support of external donors in a UCSD press release. 
“We are fortunate to have these contemporary works to enrich and 
engage the campus and local community, and we are grateful to Mary 
Looker and all of our generous supporters, ” Khosla said. 
Looker’s donation will ensure that the collection has sufficient funds 
for future art projects for several decades. Snoop Dogg Wears SDSU Jacket and Shirt at SGF 2015 Stuart Art Collection Receives $1 Million Endowment GiftSee E-CIGARETTE , page 3the past 25 years, was interviewed by 
The Boston Globe and stated that he 
does not find the conclusions of the 
study to be valid.
Al-Delaimy’s response to his critics 
was to stand by, saying he hopes his study will help others. 
“If e-cigarettes help smokers 
quit, they would have helped the 
users regardless of their past history, ” 
Delaimy said.
Al-Delaimy hopes this study 
will inform users about possible 
consequences of e-cigarette use. “I think they will continue to be 
used, ”Delaimy said. “But hopefully the 
users will be much more informed 
and nonsmokers will avoid them 
altogether. ” N EWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 5, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
Raahima Shoaib  rshoaib@ucsd.edu readers can contactfrom algae as a biological source. ”
In the interview with the 
Guardian, Stephen discussed one of 
the challenges they faced.
“Getting enough algae oil 
to do all of the research to make 
polyols and then getting enough 
to actually make two surfboards, ” 
Mayfield said. “Fortunately we were 
able to collaborate with Solazyme, 
a commercial algae company based 
in San Francisco, and they have 
lots of algae oil and gave us several 
gallons. ”
The result was a surfboard 
regarded as a “perfect 10” by early 
reviewers, with the quality of being 
slightly more flexible — something 
valued by more seasoned surfers, as reported by the U.S. Department of 
Energy.
In Mayfield’s interview with the 
Guardian, he had discussed how 
the result was extremely close to his 
original goals. 
“The organic chemists that 
worked on this — Skip Pomeroy 
and Mike Burkart of [the] UCSD 
chemistry department — did a great 
job making these polyols, ” Mayfield 
said. “These had to be close, or 
surfers would not use the boards. ”
The production-time expectancy 
is about the same, with algae oil 
being a little more expensive, yet 
being carbon neutral in comparison, 
with durability believed to last just 
as long, though needing proof, 
according to Mayfield.
Discussing what was after the project, Mayfield weighed in on the 
variety of algae oils and the resulting 
polyols.
“What’s next: The physical 
properties of the final polyurethane 
is completely determined by 
the chemistry of the starting oil 
and the chemistry of the polyols 
— the monomers used to make 
polyurethane, ” Mayfield said. 
“Because different algae have 
different oils, we have the 
opportunity to make a variety 
of polyols, and that means 
polyurethane with different physical 
properties, ” says Mayfield. Surf  Experts Rate Sustainable Board As Flexible, “Perfect 10”
Study Aims to Raise Awareness For Both Smokers and Nonsmokers▶ SURFBOARD,  from page 1
▶ E-CIGARETTE,  from page 1LIGHTS & SIRENSLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edu.
Wednesday, April 22
3:08 a.m.: Noise Disturbance
An unknown person was yelling 
obscenities at The Village East 
Building 1.  Unable to locate.
10:37 p.m.: Person Down
A female was reportedly lying 
down in a bathroom at Price 
Center. Checks OK.
Friday, April 24
1:51 a.m.: Medical Aid
A young adult female at Galathea 
Hall fainted and hit her head. 
Checks OK.
3:30 a.m.: Welfare Check
Report of a young adult female who 
posted a threat to harm herself on 
a social media website. Transported 
to hospital for evaluation.
Saturday, April 25
4:50 p.m.: Chemical Spill
Hydrochloric acid spilled on the 
floor of Urey Hall. Referred to 
EH&S.
11:31 p.m.: DUI
The adult male passenger was 
transported to detox for public 
intoxication. Closed by adult arrest.
Sunday, April 26
12:27 a.m.: Suspicious Person
An intoxicated female attempted to 
hug a Community Service Officer 
by the La Jolla del Sol leasing office. 
Information only.
1:08 a.m.: Citizen Flagdown
A motorist reportedly almost struck 
a group of people in a roadway. 
Closed by adult arrest.
Monday, April 27
12:18 a.m.: Citizen ContactA student at Harlan Hall was 
shooting a bow and arrow. Policy 
warning.
12:05 p.m.: Medical Aid
A patient at the Moores Cancer 
Center suffered an allergic reaction 
to injected medicine. Referred to 
San Diego Fire Department.  
Tuesday, April 28
12:17 a.m.: Medical Aid
An adult female at Burger King 
was unconscious from choking. 
Transported to hospital. 
12:18 a.m.: Injury
A bicyclist fell forward off her bike 
at Voigt Drive Dip and suffered 
several face and limb injuries. 
Transported to hospital.
5:30 p.m.: Suspicious Person
A female pedestrian reported that 
an unknown male motorist pulled 
up beside her, shouted for her to 
get into the vehicle several times 
and drove off when she refused. 
Report taken.
Wednesday, April 29
9:30 p.m.: Battery
Report of a known male suspect 
grabbing victim’s upper body and 
pulling toward a bed. Victim told 
the subject to stop who then walked 
away. Report taken.
Thursday, April 30
9:15 a.m.: Information
Adult male threw water on and 
attempted to hit victim at the V A 
Medical Center. Information only.
— ANDREW E. HUANG
Managing EditorFOLLOW US ON TWITTER
@UCSDGuardian
ROUGH WEEKEND?ROUGH WEEKEND?
Call Student Legal Services!
858-534-4374  | sls@ucsd.edu  |  http:/ /sls.ucsd.eduSimon yu  siy007@ucsd.edu readers can contact4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 5, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CASSIA  POLLOCK
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Earlier this month, Obama apologized for the death of one American 
and one Italian killed in a drone strike. Even more alarmingly, Obama 
admitted that officials from the Central Intelligence Agency weren’t aware 
the two men were present in the compound attacked, according to The 
New Y ork Times. The Obama administration has issued more drones 
strikes with less awareness of each target. Worse still, it launches these 
drone wars in secret, keeping as much from the public as possible. 
This is really just the tip of the iceberg. The deeper one delves into 
leaked CIA documents and international government reports, the clearer 
it becomes how little the public knows about Obama’s drone war. The 
administration is simply not disclosing this information. Even though 
Obama launched his first drone strike during his third day in office, 
he did not publicly mention the use of drones until three years into his 
presidency, according to the Huffington Post. When our government 
harms lives overseas and keeps it a secret, it is misleading citizens. 
Transparency must come from our government itself. 
Without transparency, there is no accountability. The facts validate 
this. According to CNN, the Obama administration has become 
famous for launching “signature strikes. ” These drone attacks choose 
targets merely based on patterns of suspicious behavior by a group 
of men, rather than identification of a particular militant. That is 
our government’s current criteria for sending a drone strike, and it is 
alarmingly flexible. 
There is also a discrepancy in reporting who exactly was killed and 
why. Although the Obama administration regularly claims that civilians’ 
deaths are low or even nonexistent for certain years, affected countries 
produce different numbers. According the Huffington Post, Pakistan 
reported that, over the past decade, 2,200 people have been killed  by 
drone strikes, with at least 400 reported as citizens. In addition, according 
to a leaked CIA record, the U.S. often did not know who it was killing, 
which is reckless. Suddenly the discrepancy makes sense; it is easy to 
deny a civilian death if you do not know who you killed. 
In 2013, Congress tried to pass a bill that would demand a report 
detailing the total number of combatants killed in drone strikes. Despite 
representing crucial transparency, the bill failed. It’s disappointing that 
our government didn’t step up and make a change. Transparency is a 
necessary change that must come from within.
—  AYAT  AMIN
Staff WriterObama’s Belated Apology Does Not Provide Sufficient 
Transparency Regarding General Use of  Drone Strikes
QUICK TAKESOBAMA RECENTLY ISSUED A STATEMENT APOLOGIZING FOR THE DEATHS OF TWO AL-QAIDA HOSTAGES, AN AMERICAN 
AND AN ITALIAN PERSON, WHICH RESULTED FROM  A DRONE STRIKE LEAD BY THE U.S. EARLIER THIS YEAR.
ILLUSTRATION BY ELYSE YANG
The aftermath of the recent earthquake in Nepal 
exposed an interesting relationship between the role 
of social media and social media users’ safety. In 2014, 
Facebook introduced a new feature called “Safety Check” that 
will allow a user to notify friends about his or her safety if 
Facebook finds that person in a place where a natural disaster 
occurred. Furthermore, Facebook and other social media sites 
have enabled users to easily click on a button to donate relief 
money to affected areas. While it’s commendable that social 
media sites are trying to ensure the safety of their users in 
cases of natural disasters and promote awareness, the role of 
social media gets sticky in these situations, especially when it 
comes to privacy. 
At first, it’s easy to see how this feature would benefit our 
social media-crazed society in times of disaster. The role of 
social media is to connect users to other users, and that’s exactly what this Facebook feature does within the context of 
a natural disaster. Regarding the relevance and importance of 
this feature, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg said that “when 
disasters happen, people need to know their loved ones are 
safe. It’s moments like this that being able to connect really 
matters. ” While it’s impossible for social media to be a cure-all 
in situations like this, it’s nice that it is eradicating some of the 
worry associated with catastrophic events. 
However, this feature has the potential to extend beyond 
natural disasters. A business commentator for Fortune 
magazine argues that this feature can be extended to smaller-
scale emergencies, such as a fire in a building, and that it 
will help the first responders know if someone is still in the 
building and let users know if there is a fire in their vicinity. 
Far be it for someone to argue that this would negatively affect 
users, but this would have interesting implications for first 
See SAFETY CHECKS, page 5Safety Net(work)
Following the earthquake in Nepal, social media sites have utilized “Safety Checks,” 
to help members reconnect, with questionable impacts on their users’ privacy.
B Y Rosina garcia   Senior staff writer
The U.S. has been using drones to deal with conflicts abroad since 
around 1995. This usage has picked up since the September 11 attack and 
has increased even more dramatically under the Obama administration, 
particularly circa 2010–11. Since 2004, U.S. military drones have killed 
approximately 3,213 people in Pakistan alone, only 2 percent of whom 
were confirmed combatants, according to the Bureau of Investigative 
Journalism. The administration’s described estimates of civilian casualties 
are “far lower than media reports, eyewitness accounts and [what] the 
U.S. government’s own anonymous leaks suggest, ” Stanford Law School’s 
“Living Under Drones” campaign reports. Media narratives skeptical of 
military drone usage have poured in since 2012. The recent deaths of two 
Al-Qaeda hostages have sparked both controversy in the media and a 
formal apology by the president himself. So why do most Americans still 
approve of drone use?
According to a recent Associated Press poll, six in 10 Americans 
favor using drones to target and kill members of terrorist groups, such 
as Al-Qaeda overseas, while only 13 percent is opposed. Even more 
chillingly, nearly three-fourths of Americans thought it acceptable for the 
U.S. military to kill an American citizen abroad if that person was part of 
a terrorist organization, in effect stripping said hypothetical citizen of his/
her right to trial by jury and issuing the death penalty directly. Deaths, 
combatant and civilian alike, continue to pile up in Pakistan, Y emen and 
Somalia.
It isn’t as though Americans don’t have practical reasons to oppose 
ballooning drone use. The Department of Defense’s Fiscal Y ear 2014 
budget proposal includes a plan to increase “Long Range Strike 
Inventories & Funding” from $4 billion to $10 billion over the next nine 
years. A large portion of this budget will go toward the MQ-9 Reaper, 
an armed aircraft used in executing targets, ringing up at about $30.3 
million per craft. 
It should bother Americans that their tax dollars are going to high-
tech instruments of destruction that they know very little about (rather 
than, say, education.) Although drone strikes claim to shelter American 
civilians from foreign conflict, the public should not close its eyes to 
military drone use simply because it’s happening in distant lands, across 
oceans and cultural divides. 
—  HAILEY SANDEN
Staff WriterGeneral Public Often Fails to Properly Confront the 
Government’s Secrecy Involving Oversea AttacksHave you ever asked your gin -
gerbread cookie what gender 
it identifies with before you 
mercilessly dip a leg into a glass of 
milk? If you said yes, you might be 
Lord Farquaad’s doppelganger. If you 
said no, I welcome Shrek and friends 
to continue our ongoing conversation 
on gender norms through a cookie. 
Lord Farquaad, too, for inclusiveness.
If you Google “Genderbread 
Person, ” you’ll find a colorful diagram 
by Sam Killermann explaining gender 
and the labels this entails. I’ll be dis -
secting Killerman’s first iteration of 
his diagram, but do explore your own 
sexplorations in his more recent itera -
tions. They include gender identity 
and expression, biological sex and 
sexual orientation. It’s these four con -
cepts that shroud gender norms, and 
are integral in understanding where 
many gender norms comes from.
Let’s ruminate on our 
Genderbread Person V .1 and see what 
it has to offer. Gender identity is how 
you see yourself, and this ranges from 
woman to man and everything in 
between. Gender expression is how 
you show your gender in accordance 
to traditional gender roles. This can 
be through behavior, dress and/or 
interactions. Expression ranges from 
feminine to androgynous to mas -
culine. Biological sex is how we are 
determined by our genitals (vagina 
and penis) and typical chromosome 
compositions (XX and XY), although 
AP Biology has taught me that our 
sex organs may not always be binary. 
Lastly, our sexual orientation is based 
on who we are attracted to physically 
or emotionally or in any other way. 
Orientation ranges from heterosexual 
to homosexual on the Genderbread 
Person V .1 diagram. Newer iterations 
include asexuality, which is an impor -
tant addition because hetero and 
homosexuality tend to imply a binary 
configuration when that’s not always 
the case.
Now let’s put our fledgling knowl -
edge of gender in practice. Someone 
who is biologically a man can identify 
and express as a woman and also be 
heterosexual (i.e. attracted to women).  
While confusing, this shows the value 
of comprehensive understanding.
Spectrum is important for under -
standing how these concepts create a 
binary. That binary is the force behind 
checking off “male” or “female” on 
official documentation — or the force 
that had Chuquita and Phillian dis -
criminated against. It’s also the force 
that segregates bathrooms into “men” 
and “women. ” But that didn’t stop my 
mom when I was a kid (I used the 
women’s restroom during my younger 
years). As counterintuitive as it may 
seem, let’s deconstruct these binaries 
we see everyday and let the terms 
become more fluid. It’s difficult, but 
it’s a step in the right direction. 
Taking all of this in, ask yourself 
how you identify in each of the four 
categories. Once you figure that out, 
take it a step further and think of the 
privilege, or lack of, that you receive 
because of your identity. More so, 
how does your identity intersect with 
other attributes you hold — ethnicity, 
socioeconomic status, physical ability. 
And how does that further privilege 
or complicate where you stand in our 
society? Y ou’ll be surprised at what 
you may unpack.The Politics 
of  Gender 
Bender 
Gingerbread
Vincent  pham 
vnp003@ucsd.eduboy, interrupted
OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 5, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
responders. Would they have to 
sync their communication devices 
to Facebook (or another social 
media site)? This epitomizes how 
social media is infiltrating every 
aspect of our lives, supposedly 
for the better. But is it, really? 
Social media is not the panacea for 
society’s problems and, frankly, it 
shouldn’t be. 
While features like Facebook’s 
“Safety Check” prove to be relevant 
and valuable tools for social media 
users, the problem with privacy still 
pervades this feature. Most people 
already know Facebook tracks and 
records users’ frequent locations 
and even inserts ads based on that 
information. Even though users 
can adjust their privacy settings, 
a report done by the Belgian Data Protection Authority and 
reported on by the Wall Street 
Journal argues that Facebook and 
many other social media sites 
have privacy settings that are 
difficult to maneuver, essentially 
making users jump through hoops 
to protect their privacy. While it 
might be helpful to provide some 
personal information in times of 
emergencies, users should have the 
right to easily update their privacy 
settings to make their profile more 
secure. In this increasingly digital 
age that we live in, social media is 
bound to have a profound effect 
on society, even when it comes 
to emergencies. However, such a 
profound effect commands users to 
proceed cautiously and wisely with 
what is shared online. 
Although social media should not be the remedy for society’s 
problems, it can have a positive 
impact, especially when it comes to 
raising money for relief after a natural 
disaster. Time magazine reported that 
Facebook raised over $10 million in 
just two days. For most people, the 
one-stop convenient click of a button 
makes this tool especially effective 
for raising money. The fact that it 
appears at the top of the page when 
a user logs in to Facebook also helps. 
While social media has definitely 
pervaded many aspects of our lives, in 
this case, it has done so in a positive 
way by helping other countries and 
people in an effective manner, despite 
previous qualms about social media’s 
sometimes invasive nature.
To start your transformation, get in touch today. 310.568.2366 or 866.503.5467 
gsep-recruitment@pepperdine.edu • gsep.pepperdine.eduTo transform lives. 
Her game plan: A Master 
of Arts in Education from Pepperdine.jane’sambition:
• Accredited graduate university
• On-campus and online programs that fit your lifestyle and  
learning style
• Varied and specialized clinical internship sites
• Trimester-based curriculum allowing accelerated entry into the field Earn your Doctor of Physical Therapy, Master of Occupational Therapy, or dual degree at the University of St. Augustine for Health Sciences.STRETCH MUSCLES  
AND MINDS
usa.edu  |  800-241-1027
Job #: 96261.04 Ref #:
Client: USA Desc: DPT/MOT Print Ad
Size: 5" x 8" Color: BW
Fonts: Avenir, Avenir Next Condensed Bold
Pub: USCD The Guardian Date: 4-14-15 Version: FNL
AE: MN Traf: MD AD: PB GD: ME PrintProd: MEDIA
WORLDFRONT WINDOW By David Juarez
GOT ISSUES?
BE HEARD
BY YOUR PEERS!SEND YOUR 
LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Social Media Both Protects and Pervades the Well-Being of  Its Users
▶ SAFETY CHECKS  from page 4
readers can contact
Rosina garcia  rmg008@ucsd.edu6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 5, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
TEIKO  Y AKOBSON
features@ucsdguardian.org
Out of 38.8 million Californians, most of us brush our teeth, drink Earl Grey tea, water our tomato plants, wash our dogs 
and lounge in tubs with scented bath bombs. We continually do all these things with the snowmelt we were skiing on in 
February and the precipitation that dampened Northern California in November. Or, at least, that was the plan. 
 Over the past few years, the water supply expended on the ever-growing, resource-gobbling population of 
California has exacerbated the worst drought in recent history. What used to be a mild drought has compounded to 
dangerous levels by the lack of surface water to refill reservoirs. California may not revert back to its pre-settlement desert 
state filled with rattlesnakes and tumbleweeds, but without a reliable water source, the forecast looks rather dystopian.
Our future is up in the air, quite literally.  As part of the Scripps Institute of Oceanography, the Center for Western 
Weather and Water Extremes has been studying the drought’s implications for large-scale weather patterns. A particular 
type of storm called Atmospheric Rivers, which normally drenches Northern California and feeds Southern California, 
has skipped California for the East Coast. Some climate specialists attribute the lack of storms to an Atmospheric Ridge, 
an area of high pressure, off the coast. Just a couple of these storms could help alleviate the drought and start recovery.
Dr. Marty Ralph, director of the CW3E, stressed the importance of these Atmospheric Rivers. 
“[Atmospheric Rivers] end up producing 30 to 50 percent of precipitation. We might get six or eight ARs in Northern 
California, and they produce 40 percent of the Sierra snowpack, ” Ralph told the UCSD Guardian.
The immediate answer to water supply problems is not to do our rain dances and wait for ARs but to conserve. Gov. Jerry 
Brown enacted the first mandatory water restrictions in recent history, beginning this Wednesday, May 6, in hopes of reducing 
water use by 25 percent. However, there is much more that we can do. Considering the millions of gallons pumped throughout 
California, a five-minute shower seems insignificant, but Ralph emphasized the cumulative power of conservation. 
“The choices we make everyday can really make a difference, ” Ralph said. “Every citizen can do their part to conserve 
water as a valuable resource. ”  
As we cut back, it is easy to blame the deficit on the prolific agricultural communities or metropolitan areas. Although 
agriculture uses nearly 80 percent of the water in the Golden State, water cuts have hurt many farms: 400,000 acres lay 
fallow up and down the state, and already 17,000 seasonal and part-time jobs have been cut. So far, the ranchers and 
farmers have avoided more damage by pumping unregulated amounts of groundwater from wells and aquifers to make 
up the difference. Gov. Brown’s legislation still largely ignores agriculture’s drain on the water system. The justification is 
simple: Cuts to agriculture can and will wreck agricultural exports, while cuts to the urban areas mean that you can’t have 
your daily bubblebath. That being said, agriculture cannot continue to use massive quantities of water inefficiently. 
However, water efficiency is useless without reforming the “use it or lose it” mentality written into the water right laws. 
Currently, California has a complicated system of water rights that is more suited to Gold Rush pioneers than 21st century 
mega-farms. If water rights are not used, they are assumed to be abandoned, and the farmers lose the right to the water. 
This leads many to use all of their allotted water even when it is superfluous. Currently, legislators in Sacramento are 
curtailing these rights with appropriate weariness. 
Meanwhile in our very own San Diego County, the Carlsbad Desalination Project is finally conquering Samuel Taylor 
Coleridge’s quandary: “Water, water everywhere / nor a drop to drink” from “Rime of the Ancient Mariner. ” $1 billion 
is being pumped into a desalination plant powerful enough to produce 7 percent of the water supply needed in San 
Diego County. The desalination project is energy-intensive, which leads many to ask if some fresh water is worth the 
environmental costs. However, if operations succeed, it could be a major development in the water crisis, not only for 
California but also for arid regions, such as Israel and Saudi Arabia.  
The plant is scheduled to open next year, but the CW3E has been working on methods to save water closer to the 
source that can be applied for this year’s wet season. As we approach the rainy season, the reservoirs will be kept low to 
absorb flood waters from winter storms. Climate scientists of the CW3E have been working to accurately predict ARs that 
bring winter floods and precipitation. 
“We are hopeful, [and] we have a chance to develop the methods and work with civil engineers, water managers and 
flood control, ” Ralph said. “There could be the potential for extra water to be kept in the winter and then released if a 
storm comes. If a storm doesn’t come, that water is available for summer. ”
The scientists and engineers at the CW3E prove that the greatest resource we have in combating the drought are 
Californians. We are a persistent lot. Persistent enough to build a life in a desert shaken constantly by the earth and call 
it Golden. We cannot point fingers in this dry heat and blame other Californians for a statewide disregard for our most 
important natural resource.
“Drought is a very natural part of our climate here, and we have an incredible system of very talented and dedicated 
people in engineering and water supply who figured out to how to provide reliable water in face of that great variability, ” 
Ralph said. “Be confident that the drought will end and the water system will continue to supply water — but be 
respectful of that water and how important it is to conserve. ” When in Drought
Written By Allison Kubo //  Editorial Assistant
Designed by  Joselynn Ordaz and Sherman Aline
Readers can contact  Allison Kubo akubo@ucsd.eduFEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 5, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
Intensity:
Abnormally Dry
Moderate Drought
Severe DroughtExtreme Drought
Exceptional Drought80 to 100 gallons per person average throughout U.S.
145 to 275 gallons per person range in California in 2010
11 trillion gallons of rain needed to 
recover from droughtReservoirs are 13 percent lower than average capacity 
$128 million from governor to 
assist affected communities. 20 percent of average snowpack level this yearSacramento and San Joaquin river basins were 
34 million acre-feet below normal in 2014California Water Crisis by the numbers
Statistics from USGS, NASA, California Department of 
Water Resources and Public Policy Institute of California
see more at
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 5, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEA TURES
Once you grow tired of meals scraped together 
with a microwave or sharing a room with two 
other equally messy people, off-campus housing looks 
heavenly. But when facing a new community, com -
mute and possibly eccentric landlords, the search for 
the perfect off-campus apartment becomes a daunting 
task. Looking for the right place can easily amount to 
days spent scrolling the “UCSD Housing” group on 
Facebook and being repeatedly disappointed.
That is, until someone had the idea of organizing 
all of the scattered posts into a searchable spreadsheet, 
now conveniently pinned at the top of the Facebook 
group. And that someone was Vinit Modi, a UCSD 
alumnus who has taken his spreadsheet and the entire 
UCSD housing search to the next level with his latest 
website, Campusly. Essentially an online rental data -
base for college students, Campusly offers people with 
verified ucsd.edu email addresses a convenient place to 
post the available living space they hope to fill or the 
ideal living space they hope to find.
Modi had been active in the UCSD housing group 
on Facebook for some time before launching Campusly.
 “The spreadsheet was literally my ‘I don’t have a 
product; I’m just going to build a spreadsheet and see 
what happens’ tactic, ” he told the UCSD Guardian.
Originally, Modi had plans to build a more general 
online rental community, similar to Craigslist, in order 
to help renters. His plans changed after realizing that 
certain groups of people, whom he calls “infinity groups, ” 
choose their rentals based on proximity to a specific area 
in mind — a category that includes college students.
 “In colleges, students turn over every few years, so 
what happens is [they] graduate at the end of the year 
[and then their] apartments become vacant. That may 
not be the case if you’re living in suburbia with your 
family; you may rent for 10 years or longer, ” Modi ex -
plained. “ And so we started looking at college students 
a little bit more. ”
Facebook was a major source of insight for Modi, 
who said that after spending months studying patterns 
on the UCSD Housing group, he was surprised to see 
a disproportionately high ratio of students looking for 
housing to those looking for available spaces. 
“If [students] have social media, Twitter, Facebook 
and they’re going to school actively, what is it that’s 
preventing them from finding a place right away, so much that they’re looking for places for as long as a 
month?” Modi said. “I can’t quite put my finger on it, but 
I think that [Campusly] could cut that time down for 
them. That’s a lot of energy spent worrying about where 
you’re going to live, and that energy could be better spent 
on your classes or engaging with university events. ”
Campusly creates a secure off-campus housing com -
munity by listing empty rooms, roommates and apart -
ments available from UCSD students. Modi developed 
the idea through hundreds of interviews with students 
and renters, researching the market while developing 
his product. His searchable spreadsheet had thousands 
of views in only a couple months. Now Campusly is a 
fully functional housing resource.
But Modi wants Campusly to serve students in more 
ways than in just finding housing; he wants students 
to use the website to find others who live nearby and 
to build a social network that’s comfortably close to 
home. He explained that his own experiences living 
off campus as a UCSD student motivated this idea: 
Modi and his roommates often had busy, conflicting 
schedules, which left him alone for most of the time he 
spent at home.
“The problem I had was that I didn’t know who 
else I could connect with, ” Modi said. “Thinking, ‘Do I 
really want to go all the way on campus and sit at the li -
brary or at Price Center?’ That awkwardness — it’s like 
a borderline between loneliness, but not really loneli -
ness because you have friends, but none of them are 
around, and so you almost feel like you have no one. ”
Modi designed his website to be a tool to not only 
find housing, but to find a reliable community. The 
website connects users in a specific area to help arrange 
carpools, study groups, grocery runs and even helps 
find people to split an Uber with you — all without 
ever sharing your address with anyone. This network 
tries to prevent commuters from feeling separated 
from the campus community. 
“Imagine if there were a cluster of 50-plus students 
in Clairemont Mesa and they could get together, get to 
know each other, not have to trek over to campus but 
still feel like they belong in a social group with other 
students from UCSD, ” Modi said. “It tightens the bond 
back to the university by providing a sort of virtual 
campus, off campus. ”VIRTUAL CAMPUS
OFF CAMPUS
Written by Allison Kubo // Editorial Assistant 
Teiko Yakobson // Features Editor
Photos Used With Permission by Vinit Modi
Readers can contact  Allison Kubo akubo@ucsd.eduCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 5, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 5, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
CLASSIFIEDS$
Guar dian Classi/f_ieds ar e FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifieds
BIKES
Specialized P 24 24” BMX Cruiser - $350. 
Clean Specialized 24”p24. New chain and 
shadow conspiracy sprocket. Bike is in 
near new condition. Listing ID: 142999581 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
GT Cruiser 24” VANTAGE Early 90s - $440. 
GT Cruiser 24in early 90s. Mo hawk rim rear 
sealed. Tuned and ready to roll. Listing ID: 
142165211 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Guys Firmstrong Blue Beach Cruiser Bike 
Bicycle - $60. Firmstrong beach cruiser 
guys. Blue, has some rust. Tires are flat but 
tires themselves have good tread. Listing 
ID: 142165209 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
BOATS
43’ Wellcraft Portifino 1996 - $29000. This 
is a great boat for entertaining, particularly 
for harbor cruises, or harbor hopping. Her 
deck space easily accommodates up to ten 
passengers, and her 14’16” beam makes 
her a steady ride. Listing ID: 144515222 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
2014 Azimut 64 Fly Boat for Sale - 
$2350000. Heavily optioned with custom 
lighting throughout, three Raymarine G 
Series navigation screens, Twin SeaKeeper 
Gyro Stabilizers, a wireless remote con -
trol for engines and thrusters, the Xenta 
Joystick for easy maneuvering, watermaker 
and much, much more help make this 
a turn key Yacht. Listing ID: 144515220 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
42’ Ocean Alexander 420 Sport Sedan 1995 
for Sale - $198000. Just listed and aggres -
sively priced. Cruise away on a Mexico or 
Northwest adventure! This is no ordinary 
version of this Sport Sedan! This is a cus -
tom built version of a limited production 
run of the 420 Super Sport. The twin CAT 
diesels have low hours. The single level 
living floor plan offers a huge cockpit that 
flows into the large salon through a double 
sliding glass door. Galley offers a large sink, 
cabinets and storage built into counter. 
Listing ID: 144515219 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
ELECTRONICS
Polk Audio TC80i Speakers - $600. Polk 
Audio TC80i custom in wall speakers. Total 
of five. Listing ID: 140941151 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
Cross Cut Shredder - $1115. Destroyit 
2503CC cross cut shredder is ideal for cen -
tralized office setups. It can shred up to 
fourteen sheets per pass. It can shred opti -
cal media credit cards and paper clips. 
Listing ID: 144515168 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
32” LCD 1080p TVs Used in Perfect Working 
Condition - $250. TVs on sale. 32” LCD with 
t
your vision,
our missi on.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom a pparel to 
promote your student 
organiza tion with Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
asgraphicstudioApply to
asgraphicstudio@ucsd.edu
*include resume & design samples/ portfolio
graphic
artistswantedgraphic
artistswantedComplete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies 
on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.ukLevel: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
Level:
12
34Level:
12
34Level: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
SUDOKU
HDMI 1080p. Have few with built in DVD 
player. Listing ID: 140433211 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
www.ucsdguardian.org/advertising
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972WANT TO WORK 
ACROSS THE STREET 
FROM THE BEACH?
25 hours a week.Paid summer internship 
opportunity. San Diego-based 
tech startup seeking a journalism 
or communications major.SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 5, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
SOFTBALL
Tritons Fall Short of  Preseason Expectations 
A strong group of returning players shows promise for 2016.
The UCSD softball team came 
into the 2015 season with high 
expectations: a third-place Califor -
nia Collegiate Athletics Association 
finish and another NCAA Division-
II postseason appearance set the 
bar high for the Tritons. However, 
after splitting their final road series 
against Cal State East Bay, the big 
blue fell just short of a CCAA Cham -
pionship berth for the first time since 
2010. The Tritons ended their season 
at 25–25 overall and 15–21 in the 
CCAA after a 3–1 series loss at home 
against Cal State San Bernardino.
The Tritons are led by Head 
Coach Patti Gerckens, who recorded 
her 600th career win this season in 
a series sweep against San Francisco 
State last February. She has coached 
UCSD to six CCAA championship 
berths, 10 NCAA postseason appear -ances, one CCAA title in 2012 and a 
national championship win in 2012.
Though the season ended on a 
disappointing note, the Triton team 
will return to the field next year with 
a strong group of returners; among 
these are All-CCAA honorees junior 
left-handed pitcher Alexis Edwards, 
freshman outfielder Kendall Baker, 
junior utility player Bianca Devoto, 
junior second baseman McKenna 
Clewett and sophomore first base -
man Emma Schneider.
“We improved a lot over the 
course of the season in our ability 
to compete and string together as 
one unit to win, ” Devoto told the 
UCSD Guardian. “We built really 
high expectations for ourselves and 
ended up surprising a lot of teams, 
even though we didn’t go as far as we 
planned to. ”
Edwards led the Triton pitching 
squad for the third year in a row 
with a 2.21 ERA and amassed 11 
wins, two complete game shutouts and a career-high 56 strikeouts 
over the course of the season. This 
is her second consecutive year as a 
CCAA all-conference nominee — 
she earned First-Team All-CCAA 
honors in the 2014 season and was a 
Second-Team All-CCAA honoree for 
the 2015 season.
Baker earned Second Team All-
CCAA honors in her first season at 
UCSD. The Colorado native boasted 
a .278 batting average, 22 hits, 18 
runs, 11 stolen bases and a 16-game 
on-base streak — the second longest 
on the team this year.
Devoto obtained her first all-
conference distinction this season as 
a designated player for the Tritons. 
The junior accumulated 16 RBIs 
over the course of the season and 
built up a .316 batting average — 
the second highest on her team. The 
Livermore recruit was also named 
CCAA Softball Player of the Week 
for the week of March 30 to April 5 
after a strong performance on the road against Chico State University.
Clewett led UCSD at the plate 
with a team-high .319 batting aver -
age, .424 on-base percentage, .493 
slugging percentage, 24 runs, 46 hits 
and 18 walks. This is the Escondido 
native’s second all-conference dis -
tinction; she earned Second Team 
All-CCAA honors in 2014 and was 
all-conference Honorable Mention 
for the 2015 season.
Schneider earned an All-CCAA 
Honorable Mention this season, 
her first all-conference honor as a 
Triton. The Carlsbad native led her 
team this year with five home runs, 
22 RBIs, 14 doubles and 74 total 
bases run.
Other notable players this season 
were freshman catcher Lauren 
Sanders, freshman second baseman 
Kendall Woken and sophomore first 
baseman Ashley Chestnut. Sand -
ers was recognized as the CCAA 
Softball Player of the Week during 
the week of Feb. 2, and Woken and Chestnut both hit grand slam 
homers in games against Cal State 
Stanislaus and Cal State East Bay, 
respectively.
The Tritons also recognized 
senior right-hander Mo Omori and 
senior utility Lauren Irish at the 
team’s final home series against Cal 
State San Bernardino last weekend. 
Omori was ranked second in the 
CCAA this season with four game 
saves and was named CCAA Pitcher 
of the Week for the week of Febru -
ary 2. Irish was a competitor both 
on the softball field and on the track 
— the Berkeley native played her 
first season of collegiate softball this 
year and also competed in track and 
field for the Tritons for four years.
With a good group of returning 
players, UCSD will look to build on 
this season and make a strong run 
at the CCAA crown next year.B Y Ka tie potts
EDITORIAL ASSISTANT
readers can contact
ka tie potts    kpotts@ucsd.edu PHOTO BY CORY WONG / GUARDIANSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
MARCUS THUILLIER
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 5, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
This past Saturday, UCSD women’s water polo accomplished their yearly goal of reaching 
the NCAA Championship by defeating Whittier College 17–11 in the NCAA play-in game at 
the Canyonview Aquatic Center. This is the third consecutive year that the team has been able 
to advance to the championship.
With this win, the Tritons improved their record to 19–18 for the season, and they will hope to keep 
their momentum going into their fourth overall appearance in the NCAA Championship.  
The shining star for the Tritons in this game was sophomore attacker Lani Tittle. Tittle, 
who had previously scored a career-high four goals this past week in the Western Water Polo 
Association Championship game against Cal State East Bay, was able to recreate her impres -
sive performance against Whittier, once again scoring four goals. Sophomore center Lauren 
Boyer, junior attacker Julia Kirkland and senior attacker Jolene Guiliana also came up big with 
exemplary performances, each producing a hat trick to contribute to the victory. 
The Whittier Poets grabbed their only lead at the beginning of the game when they were 
able to score the opening goal. The Tritons snatched the lead away from them not long after off 
back-to-back goals from freshman utility Kayla Fedler and another goal from Boyer, though 
the Poets were able to tie up the score at 3–3 at the end of the first quarter. 
UCSD started pulling away from Whittier in the second quarter. Boyer and Tittle both 
contributed to make a total of four goals while Whittier could only produce one. This resulted in the quarter ending with a 7–3 lead for UCSD.
In the third quarter, the Tritons’ offensive firepower was on display and UCSD truly pulled 
ahead, scoring six goals. Five of the goals were scored unanswered in the beginning of the 
quarter before the Poets scored their only goal of the quarter. The third quarter ended with 
the Tritons holding their lead at 13–5.
“The halftime speeches, [Head Coach Brad Kreutzkamp] just telling us that we need to 
win this quarter … ” Tittle told the UCSD Athletics Department. “ And to show them that we 
deserve to go championships really drove our third-quarter performance. ”  
The fourth quarter was a little choppy for the Tritons as the Poets were finally able to figure 
out the Triton’s defense. Whittier was able to put up six goals in the quarter to the Tritons’ 
four goals. Despite the Poets’ effort, the Tritons were never threatened and came out ahead 
comfortably, winning 17–11.
“We have been tested all year long, and that’s what we’ve talked about year long, is that we 
will be tested all year long so that we can get to games like this with pressure on us to see how 
we perform, ” Kreutzkamp told the UCSD Athletics Department.  
As a result of the win, the Tritons will be advancing to the eight-team field in Stanford 
University at the Avery Aquatic Center on May 8 to 10. The Tritons are slotted to face-off 
against No. 2 UCLA (24–2) in the first round on Friday at 3 p.m.
Golubovic, who was the defend -
ing decathlon conference champi -
on, opted not to participate in the 
decathlon at this meet in order to 
earn more points for the Tritons 
by participating in various other 
events, which proved to be a smart 
move for the Tritons, as Golubovic 
earned a whopping 23 of the men’s 
216 points. 
At the end of day two, the men 
moved up to first place, while the 
women remained in the top spot. 
On the third day of competition, 
the Triton triple jumpers dominat -
ed the field. Team captain senior 
Chantia Justice (39-2 1/5) — who 
had finished in second for two years 
— and junior Kristin Sato (38-7 
1/2), who both hold provisional 
qualifying marks for this event, fin -
ished in first and second, respec -
tively. On the men’s side, Bowen 
(49 1/4), Van de Streek (46-6 1/4) 
and Cook (45-5 3/4) finished in 
first, third and sixth. Bowen and 
Van de Streek also have provisional 
qualifying marks in the triple jump, 
and Bowen’s impressive jump moves 
him up to second on the all-time list 
of jumpers. 
“It’s really nice to finally win. 
I’m hoping that next week at Last 
Chance, I’ll peak [and qualify for 
the NCAAs], ” Justice told the UCSD 
Athletics Department.
Back on the track, senior Connor 
Macky and sophomore Jared Senese held their own in the 400 and 800-
meter runs. Macky and Senese took 
first and second in the 400-meter 
run with personal best times of 48.51 
and 48.61, respectively. Senese, who 
holds a provisional qualifying time 
in the 800, finished in 1:54.30, good 
for fourth place. 
“I didn’t try to let [being] the 
top seed [in the 400] get to my 
head, ”  Macky said. “I couldn’t 
have done any of this without                                  
[my teammates]. ”
Both the Triton men and women 
performed well in the hurdle events, 
earning a few podium finishes. 
Sophomore Markus Woods became 
the 400 hurdles conference cham -
pion, setting a season record of 
53.95. For the women’s 400 hurdles, 
freshman Meghan Fletcher crossed 
the line in 63.05 in third place. 
Her teammate, junior Michelle 
Cummins came in third in the 100-
meter hurdles with a time of 14.55.
The Tritons continued to domi -
nate in the relay events. In the men’s 
4x400-meter relay — consisting of 
Macky, Van de Streek, freshman 
Isaiah King and Senese — the Triton 
men finished in second with a sea -
son-best time of 3:15.18. The women 
also did well in the same even, with 
sophomore Jackie Chalmers, soph -
omore Marissa Padilla, freshman 
Michaela King and Snover finishing 
in third with a time of 3:49.83.
In the women’s 5k, junior 
Corinne Hinkle had a solid second-place finish with a time of 17:24.26. 
Hughes, who had run the arduous 
10k the previous day, had a decent 
sixth-place finish, crossing the fin -
ish line in 17:32.13.
With one event left, the Triton 
men trailed Chico State 212–204. 
In the men’s pole vault, fifth-year 
Clint Rosser finished in third, clear -
ing the 15-11 1/4 mark, closing 
the gap. Golubovic (15-7 1/4) and 
junior Tim Schmidt (15-1 1/4) came 
in fifth and seventh, respectively. 
Together, they earned 12 points for the Tritons, which was just enough 
for UCSD to edge out Chico State 
for first place in the conference. 
Chico State finished in second place 
with 213 points, shy of first by just 
three points, while Cal Poly Pomona 
finished in third with 153 points. 
Ultimately, the Triton women fell 
to third place (138.5 points), behind 
Chico State (213.5) and Cal Poly 
Pomona (142). Chico State has now 
won the conference title six times 
in a row.
With a historical finish by the Triton men, Salerno said, “We’ll 
look at nationals, but no matter 
what happens this is going to be the 
highlight. ”
The track and field teams will 
have a last chance to improve upon 
their times to qualify for nationals 
next weekend, May 9 at the Cal State 
Los Angeles Last Chance Qualifier 
meet.
Triton Men Take Conference Crown from 
Chico State, Women’s Team Finishes Third 
WOMEN'S W A TER POLO
NCAA Tournament 
Awaits
Tritons took a victory over Whittier and advanced for the third consecutive year.
BY GURKIRAT SINGH SENIOR STAFF WRITER // PHOTO BY  ALWIN SZETO
readers can contact
rosina garcia    rmg008@ucsd.edu USED WITH PERMISSION FROM UCSD ATHLETICSBaseball
W. Crew
W. Water Polo
W. Crew
Track and Field5/7     
5/8     
5/8     
5/9     
5/9AT CCAA Championships
AT Dad Vail Regatta
AT NCAA Championships
AT Dad Vail Regatta
AT CSULA Last Chance QualifierUPCOMING
UCSD
GAMES
▶ TRACK AND FIELD,  from page 1readers can contact
Gurkira t Singh   gsingh@ucsd.edu 