Unionized doctors from all 10 
University of California campuses 
went on a four-day strike last week, 
demanding the university to bargain 
with the Union of American Physicians 
and Dentists according to standard 
and legal labor practices. This marked 
the longest doctor strike against a U.S. 
employer in 25 years.
UCSD physician Dr. Amol Doshi, 
who is a member of the union’s 
bargaining team, informed the 
UCSD Guardian that the university 
has committed illegal bargaining 
actions by withholding information 
from the union.“Doctors have asked for financial 
information from the university, such 
as where they found the $57 million 
they used to fix the student insurance 
program that they mismanaged, 
because we think that the money could 
be put to better use to improve student 
health services, ” Doshi said. “But the 
UC Office of the President will not give 
us that information. ”
Moreover, UC Berkeley physician 
Dr. Jeffrey Nelson, who also serves 
on the bargaining team, thinks that 
the overall goal of improving health 
services for students is enough to 
justify the strike.
“I do understand it might 
inconvenience some patients … but 
I feel like the greater issue of making 
sure they have good student health is important enough for a few days of 
inconvenience, ” Nelson told the San 
Francisco Gate.
The UC’s Vice President for 
Human Resources Dwaine B. Duckett 
discredited UAPD’s claims about the 
university’s bargaining conduct.
“We disagree with the union’s 
claims that these strikes are about 
unfair labor practice charges, ” 
Duckett said in an April 3 press 
release. “The union has refused to 
discuss these alleged practices at the 
bargaining table. ”
Furthermore, Duckett reported 
that the university has found common 
ground with UAPD.
“The university and the union have VOLUME 48, ISSUE 46  THURSDAY , APRIL 16, 2015 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
ADRENALINE 
RUSH
HAVE YOU ALWAYS WANTED TO TRY 
AERIAL SILKS? ARE YOU DYING TO PUT 
YOUR NEW DANCE MOVES TO GOOD 
USE? READ ABOUT SOME FUN AND 
AFFORDABLE WAYS TO STAY FIT ON 
AND OFF CAMPUS. FIND OUT WHICH 
CLASSES YOU MUST TRY AND WHICH 
ONES YOU COULD LIVE WITHOUT. 
GUEST  COMMENT AR Y
BASEBALL SPLITSA.S. COUNCIL  Must  NOT CENSOR
Inching  closer  to  first  placeopinION,  P age   4
section,  P age  12
THURSDAY
H 77 L 54FRIDAY
H 75 L 55
SATURDAY
H 73 L 55SUNDAY
H 69 L 54
FORECAST
VERBATIM
KING’S RESOLUTION IS 
SHOT THROUGH WITH 
FAULTY ASSERTIONS AND 
UNSUPPORTED FINDINGS. 
PRECISELY HOW DOES THIS 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
MEASURE THE “CAMPUS 
CLIMATE?” DOES IT HAVE 
A SPECIAL BAROMETER? 
REGULAR POLLS? A OUIJA 
BOARD, PERHAPS?”
- PAST GUARDIAN EDITORS
GUEST COMMENTARY
OPINION , PAGE 4
INSIDE
CAPITOL HILL DAYS  ........ 2
SB 15 EDITORIAL  ............ 4
ALBUM REVIEWS  ............ 8
SUDOKU  ....................... 10
SOFTBALL  .................... 12“LIFESTYLE,  P AGE  6
PHOTO BY THIBA THIAGARAJAN / GUARDIANSPORTS
UCSD baseball team scores a run on Cal State Monterey Bay during the first game of Saturday’s double-header at the newly 
constructed Triton Ballpark. Photo by Emma Zilber  UCSD Guardian.
Students Vote in Favor of  
UCEN Fee Referendum
A.S. Elections Manager Ryan Huyler announced that 
the UCEN referendum passed with 3489 votes for and 
2306 votes against on April 14. As a result, quarterly 
student fees will increase by $14 starting next fall, with a 
2.9 percent annual increase for inflation, in order to fund 
the ongoing maintenance and operation of University 
Centers spaces, such as Price Center and the Student 
Center. 
According to the referendum’s website, the fee 
increase will prevent UCEN from reducing its facilities 
to minimal operations, will finance repairs to those facil -
ities and will renovate existing student-utilized spaces.
The UCEN referendum also requires that Price 
Center provide 24-hour access at least four days a week 
to computer labs, group-study rooms and commuter-
student resources.
University Centers Advisory Board senior Claire 
Maniti, who helped lead the campaign to pass the refer -
endum, told the UCSD Guardian that UCAB considered and examined dozens of different scenarios. In the end, 
UCAB determined that this referendum would be the 
best in terms of minimizing costs to students while being 
able to meet the price of basic maintenance and opera -
tions of these facilities.
“I understand the need to be very wary of raising any 
costs for students, ” Maniti said. “ At the same time, we 
have one of the largest student unions in the UC system 
but pay the lowest fees. That’s not sustainable. ”
She also informed the Guardian that students must 
be the ones to provide the majority of the funding for 
the student centers. 
“This is a student union, which means that the stu -
dent fee is the backbone of the budget here, ” Maniti said. 
“We are ineligible to receive state funding and funding 
from other departments. ” 
Maniti argued that if the referendum had not 
passed, it would have affected every member of the 
UCSD community.  B y  JACKY  TO    SENIOR STAFF WRITER 
UC Doctors Strike for Increased Transparency
Union doctors argue that the university bargained unfairly by withholding information.
B Y   Jacky To
Senior Staff WriterSee UCEN , page 3
See  STRIKE , page 3UNIVERSITY CENTERSStudent Sues 
University For
Sexual Assault
AllegationsUCSD
“John Doe’s” attorneys argue 
that the university employed 
unfair procedures and failed 
to provide concrete evidence.
B Y  Bruce B.Y. Lee
Contributing Writer
See LAWSUIT , page 3A UCSD undergraduate student 
filed a lawsuit against UCSD to 
be absolved of his alleged sexual 
misconduct on March 30.
In the petition for writ of mandate, 
John Doe’s attorneys Matthew 
Haberkorn and Mark Hathaway 
asserted that their client is wrongly 
accused of sexual assaults and, 
therefore, demanded their client to be 
exempt from the penal suspension of 
one year and a quarter.
Mark Hathaway also expressed 
that the UCSD’s procession on the 
investigation was unjust because the 
procedure was carried out without 
concrete evidence.
“The process itself is what we’re 
calling into question, ” Hathaway told 
the UCSD Guardian. “In any time 
that there’s a procedure that results 
in someone losing significant rights, 
that procedure should be fair and 
balanced. ”
Ryan Huyler, associate vice 
president of student advocacy, 
claimed that it is very possible 
that the Office for the Prevention 
of Harassment and Discrimination 
agents have proceeded a coercive 
investigation with Doe’s case.
“It’s very possible. OPHD agents 
will investigate any complaint they get, 
and I know that they will investigate 
sexual assault ones more thoroughly, ” 
Huyler said. “That’s just how they 
operate, especially with sexual assaults. ”
The 20-year-old male student, 
under the pseudonym of “John Doe, ” 
emerged as an alleged subject of sexual 
misconduct when a 20-year-old female 
undergraduate at UCSD, referred to 
as “Jane Roe, ” reported Doe’s sexual 
assault on her that she claimed to 
happen in the morning of Feb. 1, 2014 
to the OPHD on June 5, 2014, and filed 
a request of for a formal investigation 
11 days later.
According to Roe’s testimony of 
the morning of Feb. 1, 2014, “There 
wasn’t any sexual activity other than 
him putting his hands down my pants 
and trying to finger me and touch me 
down there and me telling him directly 
to stop and pushing his hand away … ”
OPHD Complaint Resolution 
Officer Elena Acevedo Dalcourt 
affirmed that the alleged incident 
is a violation of UCSD Student Sex 
Offense Policy, given that “[Mr. Doe] is 
alleged to have digitally penetrated the 
student’s vagina after she repeatedly 
stated that she did not want to engage 
in sexual activity with him. ”
However, John Doe denied this 
incident in his testimony, although 
both parties agreed that John Doe and 
Jane Roe have engaged in consensual 
sexual intercourse before the incident 
and in the evening of the incident.UC SYSTEM2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 16, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG N EWS
AVERAGE CAT By Christina Carlson
DO Y OU TWEET? WE DO!
@UCSDGuar dian
@UCSDGuardianFOLLOWUS NOW!
...yes, now!
@UCSDGuardian#OMG! Follow us on Twitter #NOW! 
Registration for SPRING Qtr is NOW open!
Register online at 
as.ucsd.edu/saferides
A.S. Safe Rides allows registered undergraduate 
stude nts to get 3 FREE rides per quarter.
Stude nts must register at least 24 hours
prior to their first ride. A.S. Safe Rides 
asucsd asucsdCapitol Hill Days 2015 brought 
together 200 activists, consisting 
of both students and non-students, 
to learn about and lobby for 
international family planning from 
April 10 to April 14. Six students 
from UCSD attended the event.
Capitol Hill Days is an annual 
event organized by Population 
Connection, a grassroots 
organization that supports efforts 
to stabilize population growth 
through access to family planning 
and educating people on the 
environmental effects of population 
growth.
Population Connection’s 
Senior Vice President for Media 
and Government Relations Brian 
Dixon told the UCSD Guardian that 
the organization’s objective is to 
promote and provide resources for 
family planning worldwide.
“In short, our goal is to ensure 
that every woman and couple in the world has access to affordable, 
voluntary, comprehensive family 
planning services, including access 
to the full range of contraceptive 
options, ” Dixon said.
The annual four-day event 
trained participants in effective 
lobbying techniques and educated 
them on issues relevant to 
population growth. The first two 
days were spent in seminars and 
training exercises, followed by 
two days of actively lobbying state 
representatives.
UCSD biological sciences 
graduate student Brian Tsu shared 
his favorite lesson, learning to lobby, 
with the Guardian.
“In the Capitol Hill Days agenda, 
the component that interested me 
the most was the opportunity to 
gain an understanding about the 
lobbying process, which is poorly 
understood by the general U.S. 
population, ” Tsu said.
Attendees listened to experts 
from Planned Parenthood, NARAL 
Pro-Choice America and the 
National Women’s Law Center speak on issues of reproductive rights at 
home and abroad, family planning, 
spreading ideas through media and 
lobbying and the environmental 
consequences of overpopulation.
When asked what they would 
take away from their experience 
in Washington, D.C., the UCSD 
students who attended expressed a 
desire to bring their new skills to 
the San Diego community. Revelle 
College junior Tatiana Freiin von 
Rheinbaben shared her plans to start 
a club to engage students politically.
“I would like to found a club 
that informs UCSD students about 
environmental issues and tell[s] 
them how they can get engaged and 
involved in easy ways — sending 
emails, going to protests, meeting 
up with their representatives, ” Freiin 
von Rheinbaben said.
Rebecca Harrington, Population 
Connection’s national field director, 
expressed hope that students who 
attended Capitol Hill Days will 
create a stronger awareness of global 
health issues and influence their 
legislators to support global family planning programs by sharing 
what they’ve learned with their 
communities.
She explained that participants 
in Capitol Hill Days are chosen 
after completing an application in 
which they are asked to explain 
their interest in population, family 
planning or advocacy issues. 
“The event is open to anyone who 
is interested in learning more deeply 
about these issues, ” Harrington 
said. “But we particularly look for 
students who have spent some of 
their academic or extracurricular 
energy focused on being engaged 
with population or family-planning 
issues. ” 
Of the 200 participants who 
attend, a select amount who applied 
received full funding of their 
travel expenses. There is no fee for 
attending, and anyone can register 
to attend if they pay for their own 
travel expenses.GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS
Called Capitol Hill Days, the four-day event sought to educate the public about population growth and family planning.
B Y  Sherman Aline
Contributing Writer
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGsee more atSherman Aline  saline@ucsd.edu readers can contactThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and 
Thursdays during the academic year by UCSD students 
and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this 
newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, 
without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2015, all 
rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible 
for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The 
views expressed herein do not necessarily represent 
the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of 
California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian 
is funded by advertising. Zev’s butt.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Aleksandra Konstantinovic
Andrew E. Huang  
Taylor Sanderson
Tina Butoiu
Kriti Sarin
Charu Mehra
Cassia Pollock
Marcus Thuillier
John Story
Teiko Yakobson
Jacqueline Kim
Kyle Somers
Nilu Karimi
Siddharth Atre
Jonathan Gao
Joselynn Ordaz
Sherman Aline
Elyse Yang
Annie Liu
Rosina Garcia
Jennifer Grundman
Laura Chow
Vincent PhamEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
  
Associate News Editor
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Social Media Coordinator
Training and Development
Page Layout
Charu Mehra, Allison Kubo
Distribution
Christopher Graves, Josef Goodyear
Copy Readers
Andrew Chao, Caroline Lee, Sage Christian, Marissa Barber, 
Heejung Lim
Editorial Assistants
Shelby Newallis, Karly Nisson, Mario Attie, Katie PottsUCSD Students Attend Lobbying Event in Washington, D.C.made progress at the bargaining table 
and reached tentative agreements on 
most noneconomic issues, ” Duckett 
said. “UC has offered wage proposals 
and the same competitive healthcare 
and retirement benefits provided to 
non-represented UC employees. ”
The Southern California campuses 
— UCSD, UCLA, UC Irvine, UC 
Riverside and UC Santa Barbara — 
began striking last Saturday at 7 a.m. 
with their doctors returning to work 
on Wednesday. 
The Northern California campuses 
— UC Berkeley, UC Davis, UC 
Santa Cruz, UC Merced and UC San Francisco — held their strikes a 
bit earlier with it commencing last 
Thursday at 7 a.m. and ending on 
Monday, April 13.
According to media specialist at 
the UC Office of the President Shelly 
Meron, about half of the UAPD 
members who were scheduled to work 
at the UCSD student health center 
showed up to work.
UCSD’s Student Health Director 
of Medical Services Stacie San Miguel 
told the Guardian that the strike 
did not have a significant impact on 
UCSD’s medical centers.
“The strike has not affected our 
ability to provide health services for 
UCSD students, ” Miguel said. “During the strike, we continued to provide 
all of the services that we normally 
provide. ”
The university has publicly 
expressed its displeasure with the 
union’s decision to strike again. 
“We are disappointed that the 
union has chosen to stage strikes 
for the second time in three months 
instead of negotiating to resolve 
the remaining issues, ” Duckett said. 
“Strikes that negatively impact our 
students will not resolve a labor 
dispute. ”Although the two parties disagreed 
on what happened in the morning of 
Feb. 1, the investigation continued.
Under the university’s decisions, 
John Doe was suspended from the 
university for a year and a quarter.
Hathaway explained that the 
procedure, through which the 
decisions were made, was not valid in 
his opinion.
“There was evidence not given witness; none of the statements were 
provided to the student, ” Hathaway 
said. “ And the decisions were made on 
essentially, as far as we can tell, secret 
evidence, which really, in 21st century 
America, should never happen. ”
In the lawsuit, Haberkorn and 
Hathaway described the importance of 
their current process.
“Petitioner, an aggrieved college 
student, must exhaust judicial 
remedies through this petition for writ 
of mandate following Respondent’s administrative appeal process, which 
is now final, before bringing an action 
in state court for damages and other 
relief …, ” Haberkorn and Hathaway 
wrote in the lawsuit petition. “
John Doe is currently attending 
classes at UCSD, and he will formally 
request an extension in court on May 
1, until the petition is heard.“[People involved in] everything 
from the Student Activity Centers 
organizations to Greek Life to gradu -
ate [programs] should have a stake 
in this, ” Maniti said. “None of the 
600 people I’ve talked to have really 
argued effectively against the fact that 
the fee needs to be pegged to infla -
tion to support facilities that are the 
backbone of so many communities. ”Furthermore, UCEN spaces 
make a large impression on incom -
ing students.
“Every student who gets a tour of 
UCSD is going to see Price Center and 
Original Student Center and see that 
there’s stuff to do here, ” Maniti said.
The last time that the UCEN refer -
endum was on the election ballot was 
in 2013 when it proposed to increase 
student fees by $11 with a maxi -
mum annual increase of 3 percent. According to Maniti, students ended 
up voting against it due to a well-orga -
nized but misleading con campaign. 
“ A graduate student ran a very 
intense con campaign in which he had 
a website with a lot of inaccurate infor -
mation, ” Maniti said. “Unfortunately, 
because that was the loudest voice, 
that was the one that people heard. ”N EWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 16, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
“Coﬀee With a Prof” is back!
We are very happy with the student/faculty participation and will continue the CWAP program.
 Please stop by any college Student Aﬀairs Oﬃce to pick up a voucher. All students are welcome to participate. All colleges are included. Please take advantage of this great opportunity to get to know your faculty member by visiting over a free cup of coﬀee! This program is for you! We encourage you to participate and enjoy the opportunity!We will provide each student with a beverage voucher to be turned into any participating coﬀee vendor at the time of their visit. Each student may participate twice per quarter. Student must have veri/f_ication that their invitation was accepted by their Professor or T.A., along with the date they have arranged to go (the week of it is /f_ine) BEFORE they request a voucher.
Participating Vendors: Art of Espresso Café, Cups Outdoor Café, Fairbanks, 
Perks, Muir Woods Coﬀee House
Coﬀee-with-a-Prof is a program sponsored by the Oﬃces of the College Deans of StudentAﬀairs’ and is funded by The Oﬃce of the Vice Chancellor of Student Aﬀairs. It allows studentsto invite a professor, faculty member, or graduate teaching assistant out to coﬀee or tea at one of the participating coﬀee vendors. It encourages students to cultivate a student-professor or T.A. relationship outside of the classroom in a more casual setting.Pick Up Your Free Coﬀee Voucher At Your college’s Student Aﬀairs Oﬃce!Looking for the 
New Business 
Column?
Now posted every Wednesday 
night, after the A.S. Council 
meeting, online.
ucsdguardian.orgStudents Voted Against the Original UCEN Referendum in 2013
▶ UCEN,  from page 1
University Officials Suspended Student for Five Academic Quarters
▶ LAWSUIT,  from page 1
Duckett: Unionized Doctors Should Negotiate, Not Stage Strikes
▶ STRIKE,  from page 1JACKY TO  J6TO@ucsd.edu readers can contact
JACKY TO  J6TO@ucsd.edu readers can contactBruce B.Y.  Lee  byl019@ucsd.edu readers can contact4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 16, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CHARU  MEHRA
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Aleksandra Konstantinovic
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Andrew E. Huang
MANAGING EDITOR
Taylor Sanderson
MANAGING EDITOR  
Charu Mehra
OPINION EDITOR
Cassia Pollock
ASSOCIATE OPINION EDITOR
Tina Butoiu
NEWS EDITOR
Kriti Sarin
ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITOR
Kyle Somers
ASSOCIATE A&E EDITOR
The UCSD Guardian is published twice weekly at the 
University of California at San Diego. Contents © 2015. 
Views expressed herein represent the majority vote of the edi -
torial board and are not necessarily those of the UC Board of 
Regents, the ASUCSD or the members of the Guardian staff. EDITORIAL  BOARD
A.S. Council Meddling is Nothing New, 
But Always Worth Condemning
Every so often, members of A.S. Council get upset with an article 
they’ve read in a campus publication and decide something must be 
done. In years past, A.S. Council has condemned and defunded The 
Koala, deprived The California Review of office space and denounced the 
UCSD Guardian for offenses real and imagined. 
As former editors of the Guardian, we’re well-acquainted with angry 
council members, to say nothing of ticked-off professors, irritated 
administrators and seething staff. Although some of us graduated from 
UCSD more than two decades ago, we still have vivid memories of fielding 
complaints and smoothing ruffled feathers.
Some of those grievances had merit. Many did not. Former A.S. Senator 
Colin King’s resolution urging the administration to impose a staff censor on 
the Guardian is an excellent example of a grievance taken to
 illogical extremes. 
We’re aware that on Tuesday, King requested that A.S. Council table his 
resolution, apparently under pressure. We also understand that King and 21 
of his colleagues signed on to language claiming the paper has “negatively 
affected students’ well-beings (sic), and [has] begun to negatively affect the 
campus climate. ” 
Knowing that, a condemnation of this censorious student council remains 
in order. We’ve seen this too many times before to let it pass 
without comment.
King’s resolution is shot through with faulty assertions and unsupported 
findings. Precisely how does this student government measure the “campus 
climate”? Does it have a special barometer? Regular polls? A Ouija
 board, perhaps?
On what basis does this council presume to know the “well-beings” of 
more than 31,000 students? How can it be sure that students’ amorphous and 
subjective “right to dignity” has been trammeled upon by this newspaper? 
Obviously, it cannot. These are matters of opinion, and opinions are arguable.
King reasons that his demands are modest and he really has the 
Guardian’s best interests at heart. “If you look at our political system, ” he 
wrote on the ASUCSD Listserv, “we have checks and balances. Similarly (sic) 
to how our government’s form of checks and balances comes full circle, this 
form of student life should too (i.e. the Guardian checks A.S. [Council], A.S. 
[Council] checks the administration and [the] administration checks
 the Guardian). ”
King’s mistakes are massive, beginning with his belief that “checks and 
balances” mean the government — in this case, the administration — has a 
check on the press. The First Amendment, California state law and decades 
of Supreme Court rulings say otherwise. 
What’s more, his resolution laughably asserts the paper “is partially 
subsidized by student fees through the Office of the Vice Chancellor of 
Student Affairs. ” Not true. The Guardian has been funded entirely by 
advertising for more than 30 years. The newspaper receives no student fees. 
Evidently, A.S. Council doesn’t know the difference between a subsidy and an 
advertising expense.
King’s resolution also declares that the Guardian has a “history of 
publishing inaccuracies and libel. ” Inaccuracies are commonplace in every 
journalistic endeavor. When an error is brought to light, it’s the job of the 
editors to issue a prompt correction, as we did many times during our tenures 
and as the Guardian’s editors do as a matter of course today. 
Libel is a more serious charge. In order to prove it, King and his 
compatriots must show — among other things — that the Guardian has 
maliciously published falsehoods. If council members believe they’ve been 
defamed, then they have every right to sue. And if it turns out libel did Editors from The Guardian’s past weigh in on the A.S. resolution that attempted to censor student journalism at UCSD.
California college students can’t seem to 
catch a break politically. Keeping with 
the state’s unwritten education policy of 
“one step forward, two steps back, ” California’s 
most powerful legislative body has created 
Senate Bill 15, a bill meant to help students by 
incentivizing timely graduations of Cal State 
University system students. It would also give 
more funding to UC schools and essentially 
force the UC Board of Regents to discontinue 
their proposed tuition hike. While that fits the 
description of the kind of bill students need, its 
funding would come at the cost of the recently 
instated Middle Class Scholarship fund by 
many measures that would be a more valuable 
asset to UC and CSU students than SB15.
This wasn’t the original idea for the bill. 
It wasn’t supposed to gut the Middle Class 
Scholarship. In fact, the bill was supposed to 
be paid for almost entirely by state general 
funds. But the state recently audited the MCS 
program and found that some wealthy people 
were using a loophole to take advantage of it, 
so they added a measure in SB15 that would 
“re-purpose” the program, which is a particu -
larly fancy way of saying that no students after this year would be able to receive middle class 
scholarships.
Whether the bill passes or fails, UC stu -
dents stand to lose if we’re taking the “glass 
half-empty” approach. It comes down to the 
choice between tuition hikes or no MCS fund. 
On a general stand of principle, though, the 
clear choice is to fail the bill and keep middle 
class scholarships. The program funds roughly 
$100 million in scholarships each year, and it 
goes to the group of students that is often the 
most neglected. Students, especially minorities, 
who pulled themselves out of poverty to go to 
UCSD often have no trouble finding financial 
aid, and wealthier families don’t generally have 
to worry as much about the relatively cheaper 
costs of the UC system.
But it seems like nearly all UCSD students 
have a few friends — or probably more than 
a few friends — whose families make decent 
money and, because of that, the students have 
scarce opportunities for scholarships and incur 
a massive pile of debt by the end of school. 
If SB15 passes and those students lose one of 
their best chances for financial aid, what does 
that say about the government’s attitude against the dwindling middle class?
This isn’t to say that not passing the bill 
would be the best choice from all points of 
view. From a utilitarian standpoint, the middle 
class scholarships are still being used for stu -
dents, and the bill would inject $300 million 
in general funds in to California colleges over 
three years, most likely preventing a tuition 
hike. It would honestly be a better scenario for 
both non-middle class UC students and nearly 
all CSU students, who would be able to receive 
about $1,000 per year while in college for pass -
ing a certain number of units.
Realistically, the bill will likely not be 
passed, especially since the MCS program is 
fairly new and state politicians would be more 
than a little hesitant to kill it off so quickly. 
It’s also a loss because, if the money had been 
pulled entirely out of California’s general fund, 
then everyone in the UC and CSU systems 
would stand to benefit. But maybe California’s 
state legislature doesn’t deem education to be a 
good enough long-term investment to be worth 
the full $1 billion out of the general budget over 
the next three years. That would be too bad 
because it’s really everyone’s loss.SB15 Would Help Relieve Tuition Woes but Hurt Middle ClassSee GUARDIAN,  page 5
EDITORIALGUEST COMMENTARYOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 16, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
occur, then there should be an 
editorial housecleaning. 
But it doesn’t follow that the 
newspaper requires a censor. As 
a matter of fact, King and A.S. 
Council might be interested 
to know that the Guardian is 
independently funded and free 
from meddlesome oversight 
precisely because of a decades-
old libel suit. The university did 
not want to be on the hook for 
future damages and renounced 
responsibility.
King’s resolution ends with 
a contradiction: “the Associated 
Students of UCSD believe in 
freedom of speech and believe that an advisor would assist in integral 
tasks of journalism, thus enhancing 
the Guardian as a news source, 
and would not limit students (sic) 
freedom to print what they desire. ” 
Nonsense. Either you believe in 
freedom of speech or you believe in 
state-imposed “checks” on speech. 
There is no “and. ” It’s one thing for 
the council to give the Guardian 
the cold shoulder or even to 
withdraw advertising. But anything 
else is simply censorship.
Fact is, the Guardian has 
served UCSD’s students with 
distinction for nearly 50 years. We 
never needed an advisor. On the 
contrary, working without training 
wheels was an amazing learning 
experience, one that has served us well in our professional careers.
We’re proud of our role in 
building the paper’s award-winning 
reputation. The newspaper has 
consistently offered a strong and 
independent voice for students. It 
does not exist to provide sycophantic 
coverage to a thin-skinned student 
government. We hope it remains that 
way for decades to come.
 
Guardian Has Been Independent For Years and Must Remain So
▶ GUARDIAN  from page 4GOT ISSUES?
BE HEARD
BY YOUR PEERS!SEND YOUR 
LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGCONFUSED MUSE  By Elyse Yang // Art Editor
Ben Boychuk (’94) was Editor-in-Chief 
from 1992–93. David Burkhart (’90) was 
Opinion Editor from 1988–90. Jason Snell 
(’92) was Editor-in-Chief from 1991–92. 
Daniel Watts (’06) was Opinion Editor 
from 2003–04. Claire J. Vannette (’04) was 
Opinion Editor from 2002–03.REC CLASSROULETTE6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 16, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  WEEKEND  
Aerial Silk 
Acrobatics
by Brittney Lu, Staff Writer
Location: Main Gym - 
West Balcony
Price: $30  
Difficulty: 5/5
Rating: 
Not for the faint of heart, this chal -
lenging and exhilarating recreational 
opportunity is either for those who 
already have a circus background 
or are avid adrenaline junkies. While 
the class is particularly intimidat -
ing, especially if an introductory 
beginner’s course includes a “stag 
spin” mid-air, the patient and sup -
portive instructors help guide and 
push your abilities to “manipulate the 
silks.” And just a side note — you 
are thrown into inverted aerial posi -
tions that may or may not double as 
a chiropractor session. Essentially, 
unless you are willing to participate 
in unimaginable contortions with 
only a piece of fabric as support, it’s 
advisable to leave this activity to the 
Cirque du Soleil family. 
Archery
by Yulin Liu, Staff Writer
Location: Archery range, 
located on East Campus across 
from Thornton Hospital
Price: $30
Difficulty: 3/5
Rating:
The Beginning Archery course is an 
entertaining and goal-driven activity. 
It introduces the basics of the Na -
tional Training System, the official 
certified shooting method here in 
the U.S. During practice, the coach 
blows a whistle, and the students 
either stand on the line to shoot or 
fetch the arrows from the targets — 
a great system to keep everybody 
safe. Bows, arrows and cuffs are 
provided. The class is fun and low 
pressure. Highly recommended! For those who bore easily on the 
treadmill, tire of the crowds at 
RIMAC and cringe at the thought 
of ever having to do cardio and 
weights at the gym, maybe it’s 
time that you found a new way 
to exercise. Although finding 
something new that works 
for you may sound daunting, 
UCSD’s recreational classes, 
which are offered quarterly 
and at a low cost, provide a 
way to explore the different 
types of fitness opportunities 
and activities that are offered 
around our university — 
allowing you to find the form 
of exercise that you really love. 
by Monica McGill, Staff Writer
PHOTO BY THIBA THIAGARAJAN/ UCSD GUARDIAN PHOTO BY DHRUMIL DESAI/ USCD GUARDIANWEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 16, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
East Coast 
Swing,
 Lindy & 
Jitterbug
by Christian Gella, Senior Staff Writer  
Location: RIMAC Activity 
Room 2
Price: $34
Difficulty: 1/5
Rating:
Willing to dabble in a social dance? 
Lindy Hop, East Coast Swing and 
Jitterbug’s emphasis on working with 
different partners may be perfect for 
those wanting to meet new people or 
break out of their shell. In this class, 
you’ll be switching pairs every few 
minutes while practicing new, rhyth -
mic dance moves of three similar-
yet-distinct dance styles in coordi -
nation with your partner. There are 
even Lindy Hop social events every 
Saturday at Perks Coffee Shop (and 
at dance clubs in the vicinity) to help 
supplement the lessons and form 
lasting connections amongst people 
who share a passion for dance. 
GOLF
by Yulin Liu, Staff Writer
Location: Sorrento Can -
yon Driving Range
Price: $63
Difficulty: 4/5
Rating:
At the beginning of each session, 
Coach Mike Wydra gathers all of the 
students and introduces golfing theo -
ries and poses. Then he gives each 
student a three-minute individual 
coaching session. Every participant 
is provided with a basket of golf 
balls. For those who have not spent 
much time out on the golf course, it 
is very hard to keep the swing move -
ment consistent, but don’t worry — 
you can take as much time as you 
need to practice. 
Pitfall: While the golf balls are pro -
vided for, students have to bring their 
own sets of golf clubs. horseback
riding
by Brittney Lu, Staff Writer
Location: 
14287 Clarkview Ln.
San Diego, CA 92130
Price: First three one-hour les -
sons at $85
Difficulty: 3.5/5
Rating:
At Sunset Horse Ranch, Silver Spur 
Riding School provides horseback 
riding lessons. The horse ranch 
— pleasant and idyllic — offers a 
decent residence for a number of 
well-trained horses. The trainers are 
great at keeping their new students 
safe, so don’t worry too much if 
you are completely new at this. At 
the start of each one-hour session, 
students begin by walking their des -
ignated horses out of their stables 
and brushing them. Calling all horse-
lovers, this is an intimate bonding 
and friendship building experience.
Pitfall: They don’t have the cleanest 
restroom in the world…
Website: http://www.silverspurridingschool.
com/Contact Liz at 760-815-7299 to reserve 
your preferred hours — spots fill up quickly!  COURTESY OF JACQUI2/PIXABAY .JPG COURTESY OF DAVID W / FLIKR-LONGHORNDAVE.JPGPHOTO COURTESY OF ERIC ESQUIVEL / FLIKR.JPG
 8     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 16, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
DJ BATTLE
Come and see this year's Sun 
God DJ Battle artists DWoo, RNA, Electrophile, RAYTAC, Bijan and Ryan Dirvin!8 PM at PCFriday, April 17Doors open 8pm | Show starts 8:30pm
For more information, visit sgf.ucsd.edu
“Lost River” has been 
billed as one of the 
worst films of the year. 
Critically derailed with snarkiness 
since its premiere at Cannes, it was 
marked as a shallow film made by an 
actor with an overinflated ego who 
simply had too much access to studio 
financing and encouragement from 
his peers — a dilettante overreaching 
and failing
Wrong. This film has value and 
establishes Ryan Gosling as a burgeon -
ing force behind the camera. Inspired by the likes of collaborator Nicolas 
Winding Refn and David Lynch, we’re 
taken through one of the year’s great -
est visual triumphs. The film revolves 
around downtrodden mother Billy 
(Christina Hendricks) and maverick 
son Bones (Iain De Caestecker) going 
to the extremes required by their 
world in order to pay off their home 
in the face of cultural and financial 
decline — a social fable that slowly 
transforms into a fantasy.
Billy begins to work at a nightclub 
where every dollar earned comes from the audience’s love of gore and 
Bones sells stolen copper, later invok -
ing the wrath of Bully (Matt Smith) 
by stripping a building in his terri -
tory. Ben Mendelsohn, as Dave the 
bank manager and club connoisseur, 
continues his path as one of the most 
underrated actors out there, with a 
versatility that allows him to be able 
to menacingly reference A$AP Rocky 
and hypnotically dance in what will 
be one of the year’s most memorable 
sequences. De Caestecker and Saoirse 
Ronan both deliver the performances 
of their careers. Ronan is again the 
quiet girl, but plays her role with the 
stunning precision she gained through 
her previous turn in “ Atonement. ” 
De Caestecker worms his way out of 
simply being a Gosling stand-in by 
letting the character’s dedication to 
his family bleed through his perfor -
mance. He rarely lets out a smile as he’s increasingly overwhelmed by the 
troubles plaguing him (Bully’s trying 
to quench his thirst for vengeance) 
and his family. Smith’s performance as 
Billy has shades of Frank Booth, but 
Smith makes it his own.
The dialogue at a few points 
throughout seems elementary and 
stilted — especially between Bones 
and Rat. The film’s underreliance 
on it works to its disadvantage, the 
clumsiness suddenly more apparent 
because every syllable counts. How -
ever, considering that this is Gosling’s 
first film, this complaint is forgivable 
in the grand scale of things. 
The film excels in everything else, 
resting heavily on the laurels of its 
cinematographer, actors and score. 
Master cinematographer Benoit De -
bie’s contributions seem to be the only 
aspect of the film that was appreciated 
by all. There isn’t a single frame in the film that would feel out of place in 
an art exhibit. Gosling’s emphasis on 
conjuring visually striking sequences 
over effective dialogue is more a result 
of being a fresh-faced director than a 
testament to the true strength of his 
writing. Johnny Jewel’s eerie electronic 
score is much more subtle than that 
of “Drive” but no less effective. His 
twinkling synths work with the gran -
deur an organ would possess through 
the silence and solitude that is present 
throughout. “Lost River” is a great 
film with its fair share of flaws. But 
at its heart, the film is about moving 
forward in the face of defeat. Whether 
this also applies to Gosling’s career 
behind the camera, we have yet to see.
—    Sam  velazquez
contributing WRITErFILM   REVIEW
Directed by  Ryan Gosling
Starring   Christina Hendricks, Ben Mendelsohn, Iain De Caestecker
Rated R
Release Date April 10Highly divisive, “Lost River” excels as an exercise in 
Gosling’s ambition and creativity, not his indulgence.Lost  riverPHOTO COURTESY OF ACESHOWBIZWEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 16, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
Lost  river1st  ba th
by  a vid  dancer
Release Date April 14
Indie-pop newcomer evokes ‘70s surf rock in 
an unexpectedly alluring debut album.ALBUM   REVIEW
Jacob Summers is new to the 
music scene but not in the way 
you’ d expect. He’s not new in the 
sense that he’s been around for a while, 
playing to apathetic audiences whose 
only recently piqued interests have 
snagged him the label of “the next big 
thing. ” Summers (also known as Avid 
Dancer) is an authentic novice — the 
product of a strict, religious household 
bereft of Internet and opposed to non-
Christian tunes. His isolation means 
he’s a stranger to recent releases and 
old classics alike. But it also means his 
debut LP , “1st Bath, ” is entirely original 
and intriguingly honest by nature — 
any similarities to other artists are 
mere coincidences.
So, “1st Bath” becomes an as -
tonishingly personal experiment for 
Avid Dancer, who crafted the album’s 
cover out of old childhood photos 
and wrote its title in his own blood. 
But don’t expect it to be a sound you 
haven’t heard before — coincidences 
are fairly easy to come by on the LP . 
Take track “ All the Things Y ou Keep”: 
Guitars that would be at home on 
The Beach Boys’ “Endless Sum -
mer” conjure up calming surfside 
singalongs that Summers’ softly 
murmured vocals only accentuate. 
Or perhaps, try “Not Far to Go, ” a 
song with riffs that practically im -
plore you to pull out your air guitar 
and start jamming out to Foghat’s 
“Slow Ride. ” The entire album might as well be a collection of beachy 
‘70s pop tracks making a welcome                          
21st-century resurgence.
But not every song on the album 
is familiar; Summers shines where 
likenesses are less common. “ All Y our 
Words Are Gone” is a lighthearted 
indie-pop gem that pairs acoustic 
guitars with catchy melodies and 
flickering keyboards. In “Medication, ” 
pulsating guitars act like audio strobe 
lights and join crashing drums in a 
busy instrumental arrangement bal -
anced by Summers’ simple, deadpan 
deliveries of his lyrics. With grungy 
guitars and addicting choruses, lead 
single “I Want to See Y ou Dance” is a 
trippy triumph that proves to be the 
LP’s most radio-friendly hit.
Avid Dancer has certainly found 
a signature sound in “1st Bath. ” That 
said, he doesn’t vary it often and the 
result is a collection of delicate, airy 
tunes that blend into each other and 
grow repetitive. Many of the tracks 
contain multiple loops replicated 
over and over; these act as catchy 
supplements to a few but prove 
tiresome additions to most. Y et, “1st 
Bath” certainly does have its high -
lights, and it establishes Avid Dancer 
as an artist whose psychedelic-pop 
tunes will only continue to get bigger.
—    Karl y  nisson
 EDITORial assistant
Secret  life
by  moon  king
Release Date March 25
Moon King provides ungodly potential wasted on “Indie Rock Syndrome. ”ALBUM   REVIEW
Moon King’s “Secret Life” 
can be described as find -
ing the seemingly perfect 
girlfriend. She’s funny, smart, beau -
tiful: Everything’s great. But then 
she gets lazy in the relationship. She 
stops doing the cute things, and she 
thinks that she’s safe from a breakup 
because she worked so hard in the be -
ginning. The album starts off amaz -
ingly. It seems like Toronto’s indie-
rock duo will be “the one. ” However, 
for a majority of the album, the in -
teresting, impressive sound from the 
first track abandons the listener and 
leaves them dealing with the album’s 
case of “Indie Rock Syndrome. ”
What is Indie Rock Syndrome? 
With a majority of artists, ranging from 
Phoenix to Puscifer, there has been a 
consistency with the usage of synthe -
sizers to fill in a layer, as if the artists 
are afraid that they will sound hollow 
if they don’t. But since every artist does 
this, it starts to get too repetitive and 
generic to captivate any interest.
Apart from the synth cliches, 
album opener and first single, “Ro -
swell, ” reflects the potential the band 
possesses. It has everything to indi -
vidualize itself from others: intricate 
and intelligent layering, an aura that 
screams personality, authenticity 
and dedication, unorthodox instru -
mentation and a clean sound. The 
song constantly builds onto itself 
and brings different ostinatos and 
motifs together almost noticeably. With some intricate sounds, like 
strange banjo strums and pluck -
ing, the song embodies the band’s 
authenticity. It leaves an optimistic 
assumption that the album will be a 
continuously dedicated and authen -
tic one. 
There are times when optimism 
betrays, however. With the constant 
droning of the synthesizers and re -
petitive guitar riffs, the album does 
little to challenge you after some 
awe-inspiring first tracks. It only 
gradually gets worse and worse, and 
eventually you start to wish that the 
album would end. The fourth track 
particularly, “Come Back, ” wastes 
your time by providing the antith -
esis of “Roswell. ” Generic sounds 
with generic synthesizers screaming, 
“I want to be like everyone else and 
not contribute anything to my au -thenticity!” Y et every song screams 
this phrase until the seventh track, 
“ Apocalypse, ” repeats some of the 
motifs of the first track and where 
the album picks up again. Expectant -
ly, “Roswell” and “ Apocalypse” have 
the most listens on SoundCloud.
Because the album is the Moon 
King’s first, there will definitely be 
room for improvement in the band, 
so there’s no need to count them out 
of the game just yet.  If anything, 
“Roswell” and “ Apocalypse” are 
worth listening to, and only the fu -
ture can determine whether or not 
Moon King will still be worth dating 
in the end.
—    cedric  hy on
 Contributing writer
PHOTO USED WITH PERMISSION FROM GRAND STAND MEDIA10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 16, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
CLASSIFIEDS$
Guar dian Classi/f_ieds ar e FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifieds
BIKES
6 Sp Ladies Beach Cruiser - $125. Nice 
Ladies six speed bike. Everything on its own 
is in very good working order. Listing ID: 
140101212 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Felt F55 Road Bike 50 CM - $750. Well-used. 
Works. Rarely used Felt F55 50CM road bike. 
This is a second owner garage queen that 
doesn’t get enough use to justify keeping it 
around. Aluminum frame tubing with car -
bon fiber forks, seat post and handlebars. It 
has Shimano Dura-ace brake components. 
Listing ID: 138356006 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
DH Mountain Bike - $1200. This is a really 
clean bike. It has marzocchi 888 titanium 
bomber front forks. Marzocchi roco World 
Cup rear oversized rotors. Shimano shift 
lever and hanger atomic bars. Hayes brakes. 
Bike has some small scratches from use but 
was kept very clean. Washed after every 
ride and maintained on a regular basis. 
Listing ID: 138356004 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
ELECTRONICS
6 Foot 2-pin Power Cord - $14.99. 6-ft 
power cable with 2 female connectors and 
both rounded ends. Printer laptop audio 
electric cord. 8-shaped 2 prong A/C power 
cord unpolarized. Electric cord colors may 
vary in black, grey, white. 6-ft long, seven 
Amp, 125 Volt, 875W. Two rounded open -
ings. Listing ID: 140101283 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
Brother MFC 8440 - $50. Brother MFC 8440 
for sell. Printer powers on and is in good physical condition. Other than powering 
on, no more testing has been conducted. 
Printer sold as is. Listing ID: 140101277 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Studio / Photography Lighting Kit - $35. 
Telescopic light stand (from 2’-9” to 6’-8” 
high). 33” Photo Studio White Premium 
Umbrella Reflector. Fluorescent swivel light 
holder. Premium LS Photo Pro Studio Day-
Light Studio fluorescent Light Bulb (PB-
45, 120V, 45 Watts, 6500K). It’s practically 
unused, but it’s missing 1 bolt. Listing ID: 
140101276 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
FURNITURE
Unique Chair Newly Upholstered - $99. If 
you are interested in viewing or purchasing 
this item please come by the shop. Listing 
ID: 140101302 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
Dining Room Table with 6 Chairs - $325. 
This is a beautiful solid wood dining room 
table with six chairs for sale. Four side chairs 
and two arm chairs. The table has also a leaf 
to extend to a very nice size to accommo -
date many for dinners. The chairs are in a 
superb condition. We just moved to a small -
er home and need to sell the dining table 
set. Listing ID: 140101301 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
Maple Bar w/ Cherry Finish - $600. For sale 
is a home bar constructed out of maple 
wood with a cherry finish. I originally pur -
chased this bar for $1200. The bar is in 
terrific shape and I can help to deliver for 
an additional $50 if needed. Listing ID: 
140101296 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
t
your vision,
our missi on.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom a pparel to 
promote your student 
organiza tion with Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
.com/ucsdguardian
asgraphicstudioApply to
asgraphicstudio@ucsd.edu
*include resume & design samples/ portfolio
graphic
artistswantedgraphic
artistswantedComplete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies 
on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.ukLevel: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
Level:
12
34Level:
12
34Level: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
SUDOKU
www.ucsdguardian.org/advertisingSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 15, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
LOST
-REWARD -
Baby Sun God on the loose and on the 
prowl.  Answers to the name of “Calvin 
or ¢-DoGG”. Weighs approx. 3.6 oz. - 
3 years young. Needs courage & boba. 
Last seen on the 202, swiping right.
IF FOUND, PLEASE RETURN TO
sgf.ucsd.edu/ sgfbabies
follow
@asceucsd @asgraphicstudio @tritonoutfitter
to find an instant winner!
SPORTS  CLUBS
Men’s Soccer : The 7th Annual UCSD Club Soccer Invitational took place this 
past Saturday and Sunday at Warren Field. UCSD’s men started the weekend 
by defeating UC Riverside. In their second group game, the Tritons faced off 
against Cal Poly San Luis Obispo’s A team. The scoreboard remained blank in 
the first half, but Cal Poly San Luis Obispo scored two goals in quick succession 
in the second half to defeat UCSD. UCSD dominated the third-place game, 
where they were placed in against the University of Southern California and 
scored on a penalty kick to secure a third-place finish for UCSD.COMPILED BY BRITTNEY VIERRA
bunt by freshman third-baseman Rachel Phillips. Freshman 
outfielder Kendall Baker then drove freshman second-base -
man Kendall Woken, who was pinch running for Chestnut, 
home for the first and only run of the game. However, the 
Tritons couldn’t keep the rally going and ultimately fell 4–1 
in the series opener.
 Humboldt State struck first again in game two on Friday 
— a three-run homer over the left-field fence by McKibbon 
in the second gave the Jacks a sizeable lead early on. Two 
innings later, Hollingsworth sent a single to left center to 
score Chavez, notching up the critical insurance run for 
Humboldt.
 UCSD responded in the fifth inning, scoring two to 
narrow the deficit. Sophomore utility Bianca Devoto, who 
was pinch hitting for junior outfielder Taylor Abeyta, singled 
up the middle to send Phillips and Schneider home. The 
Tritons attempted to overtake the Jacks in the sixth but 
fell just short of a comeback. With Woken on second and 
freshman outfielder Kelsi Maday on third, junior shortstop 
McKenna Clewett hit a sacrifice bunt to score Woken and 
close the gap to one run. However, Humboldt’s junior 
pitcher Katie Obbema shut down the next two batters in 
the order, then went three-up, three-down in the seventh to 
secure a 4–3 win for the Jacks.
 “I always say that offense wins games, while defense 
loses games, ” Schneider told the UCSD Guardian. “If you 
have a strong offense, then getting on the scoreboard should 
not be an issue. It means nothing without a strong defense, 
though. Y ou can score as many runs as you want, but they 
won’t mean much if your defense isn’t strong enough to stop 
the other team from scoring. ”
 The Triton women took the lead first in Saturday’s first 
game. Abeyta started the big blue off with a big triple to left-
center in the third inning. Then, with two outs up on the 
board, Schneider and Devoto hit back-to-back doubles to 
score two for UCSD.
 Humboldt countered in the fourth with a one-run 
homer by Harris, then took the lead from the Tritons in the sixth. With runners in scoring position, UCSD Head 
Coach Patti Gerckens turned to junior right-handed pitcher 
Hannah Duarte to relieve junior left-handed pitcher Alexis 
Edwards. Despite a strong effort from Duarte, Humboldt hit 
two consecutive singles to break into the lead. Lumberjack 
sophomore pitcher Madison Williams then closed out the 
game, giving up one hit in the sixth and pitching a perfect 
seventh to give Humboldt a 3–2 win.
 Humboldt State earned the series sweep in Saturday’s 
final game with a decisive 4–1 victory. The Triton defense 
held strong for five innings — Duarte and the Triton fielders 
kept the Jacks to one run with two impressive double plays 
in the field and Duarte giving up just four hits.
 The Lumberjack offense broke through in the sixth with 
a solo homer by senior first-baseman Hannah Williams and 
increased their lead to four in the final frame after back-to-
back base hits by Pena and junior outfielder Carly Perkins 
scored two more runners.
 With one last inning to break the shutout, the Triton 
offense geared up for a comeback in the bottom of the 
seventh. Three consecutive base hits by Chestnut, junior 
outfielder Kristin George and Baker loaded the bases up; 
Schneider then popped up a sacrifice fly to score Phillips, 
who was pinch running for Chestnut. However, the big blue 
went down at the next at-bat, stranding two runners on base 
and dropping the series finale.
 “I think we were in it every game, ” Gerckens told the 
UCSD Athletics Department. “Our pitching was fantastic, 
but [Humboldt] capitalized on every mistake we made, and 
we just didn’t do that. ”
 The Tritons will be on the road in Hayward, California, 
next weekend against CCAA eighth place Cal State East Bay, 
then will return home on April 24 and 25 against Cal State 
San Bernardino before moving into the CCAA and NCAA 
tournaments.Baseball: This past weekend, the Tritons kept up their winning ways by 
sweeping the University of Arizona in a home series at Valhalla High School. In 
the first nine-inning game, the Tritons exploded for eight runs in the seventh 
inning to defeat the Wildcats 15–5.
In the second game, the score was leveled at five apiece when senior Kevin 
Goulette came up clutch in the bottom of the sixth inning with a pinch-hit two-
out double to drive in the go-ahead run to win 6–5.
In the last game on Sunday, sophomore Y ousef Koutnik took the mound and 
had a scoreless start through five innings. The Tritons scored 10 runs in those 
five innings to finish the game off with another mercy in five innings. The 
Tritons won the last game 10–0.
W . Rugby: The UCSD women’s rugby team took on nationals this past weekend 
in New Mexico. The Tritons played the University of New Mexico on Friday and 
fell behind in the first few minutes of the match. Injuries took out two major 
players, and the Tritons were not able to make up the ground they lost in the 
beginning, falling to the Lobos by 12 points. On the second day, the Tritons 
went up against UC Berkeley. UCSD was able to score the first try and, although 
UC Berkeley kept the score close in the first half, the Tritons were able to pull 
away in the second half 53–17.
Roller Hockey: From April 8 through April 12, the UCSD roller hockey club 
battled its way to a final four appearance in the 2015 National Collegiate Roller 
Hockey Association Division-II National Championship Tournament. After 
finishing the regular season with an impressive 15–1 record, the Tritons were 
placed in the top pool of the tournament along with the University of Western 
Michigan, University of Arkansas and Farmingdale State University. The first 
round-robin game for the Tritons turned out to be their easiest of the three 
as they took down Western Michigan 8–3. In the second of the round-robin 
games, UCSD fell 5–4 to the University of Arkansas. In the last game of the 
round robin, the Tritons lost a close game to Farmingdale 2–1 and finished third 
in pool play. The Tritons took down the University of Denver Pioneers 9–4 in 
the first elimination game. In the Elite Eight, UCSD defeated Eastern Carolina 
University 4–3 to reach the final four. The semifinal was a much-anticipated 
rematch between UCSD and Farmingdale State, but the blue and gold could not 
hold and lost to Farmingdale 6–3. had an underwhelming performance at Stanislaus, finishing 
with a tie for 60th. Sophomore Rocky Hall rounded out the 
Triton players, finishing in 78th place. 
“The team continued to improve and played well today, ” 
Ragan said. “The wind was blowing all day, so the scores 
were not as low as round one, but the effort was equally 
as good. ”
UCSD’s sixth place finish marked the highest-placing finish of the season. Roseth’s 12th place finish was also a 
career best. 
The Tritons will have less than a week to prepare for 
their potential final outing of the season when they travel to 
Stockton for the CCAA Championships, which will be held 
from April 20 to 22 at Brookside Country Club.Men’s Golf  up Against T op Competition at CCAA Championships
▶ M. GOLF ,  from page 12readers can contact
KA tie Potts   kpotts@ucsd.eduUCSD looks to Break Five-Game Losing Streak at CSU East Bay
readers can contact
Daniel Sung   d2sung@ucsd.edu ▶ SOFTBALL,  from page 12SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
MARCUS THUILLIER
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 16, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
Second-place UCSD baseball split a California Collegiate Athletic 
Association four-game series against Cal State Monterey Bay last 
weekend while celebrating the official opening and dedication 
of the new Triton Ballpark. UCSD now stands at 26–14 overall and 
21–10 in the CCAA and is sitting just behind Cal Poly Pomona in the 
league standings.
Junior right-handed pitcher Justin Donatella (7–1) took the mound 
at Triton Ballpark for game one against Monterey Bay last Friday and tal -
lied his seventh win for the year. Donatella threw for six and only allowed 
four hits and two walks, one of which was a hit-by-pitch. He now stands 
at a league-best 0.63 ERA and holds 82 strikeouts and was named the 
CCAA Pitcher of the Week, as well as the NCBW A West Region Pitcher 
of the Week for the second time in his career for this week. Sophomore 
outfielder Jack Larsen had an equally good night at the plate, going 2-for-
4 with three RBIs and helped propel the Tritons to the 8–0 shutout win. 
“Coming into this week, we talked about getting back to playing our 
best; let’s make a push to play the best baseball we can play down the 
stretch here, ” UCSD head coach Eric Newman told the UCSD Athletics 
Department. “Twelve games that are promised to us on the schedule, if 
we want to get to bonus baseball, we’ve got to play our best right now. ”
In the first game of Saturday’s doubleheader, senior pitchers Trevor 
Scott (5–5), Dan Kolodin (2–1) and Chad Rieser (0–0) combined to 
produce the 5–0 shutout victory. Scott was credited for the win after going six frames with nine strikeouts. On the offensive front, the Tritons 
capitalized on a four-run third inning initiated by singles from sopho -
more shortstop Tyler Howsley and junior outfielder Gradeigh Sanchez. 
All four runs in the third were marked as unearned. 
Transfer junior pitcher Alon Leichman (5–2) had an especially 
challenging outing in game two on Saturday, allowing eight hits and 
seven runs in just over two frames recorded. The Triton bullpen rotated 
through five total pitchers on the mound and afforded Monterey Bay 
three more runs in later innings for the 10–4 loss at home. The Otters 
recorded four home runs against the UCSD pitching staff, the highest 
the Tritons have allowed thus far in the 2015 campaign. 
UCSD lost Sunday’s series finale 7–6 to split with Cal State Monterey 
Bay. The loss came as the Otters broke a 6–6 tie in the top of the eighth 
and UCSD was unable to answer despite another great performance by 
Larsen at the plate. The sophomore managed a 3-for-5 showing with 
four RBIs and two runs. 
“We do have a goal of winning the conference, ” Newman told the 
UCSD Athletics Department. “Whether we’re in third or whoever wins, 
it doesn’t change that we’ve got to focus on playing our best for the next 
however many games it takes. 
The Tritons will travel to Turlock, CA for a CCAA four-game series 
against ninth-place Cal State Stanislaus with first pitch scheduled for 6 
p.m. on Friday, April 17. 
readers can contact
john stor y    jstory@ucsd.edu 
BASEBALL
UCSD Splits Series  
UCSD records two shutouts to open series but drops the two last games against             
Cal State Monterey Bay, moving into second place in the conference standings.
BY JOHN STORY  ASSOCIATE SPORTS EDITOR // PHOTO BY  EMMA ZILBER
The UCSD softball team returned 
to Triton Softball Field this past week -
end for a four-game series against No. 
13 Humboldt State and suffered the 
second series sweep of the season, 
dropping down to seventh in California 
Collegiate Athletic Association play. 
The Tritons fell 4–1, 4–3 in Friday’s 
doubleheader, then dropped Saturday’s 
games 3–2, 4–1; their record is now 
22–20 overall and 12–16 in confer -
ence play. Humboldt State increased 
its win streak to 17-straight games and 
remains atop the CCAA.
 The Lumberjacks put the first run 
on the board in the second inning of 
Friday’s first game. With two outs and 
two runners on base, senior first-base -
man Alison McKibbon singled down 
the right side to score redshirt junior 
third baseman Julie Pena. The Jacks 
boosted their lead to 4–0 in the third 
— three consecutive hits loaded the bases up, then junior second-baseman 
Cyndi Chavez scored off a single by 
sophomore second-baseman Tiffany 
Hollingsworth to notch run number 
two for Humboldt. An error by the 
Triton third-baseman then allowed 
Hollingsworth and junior catcher 
Darian Harris to score two unearned 
runs, increasing the Tritons’ deficit to four.
 UCSD attempted a comeback in 
the fourth inning: Sophomore first-
baseman Ashley Chestnut and sopho -
more catcher Emma Schneider drew 
two consecutive walks, then both run -
ners moved up a bag off a sacrifice After a two-week hiatus, the UCSD 
men’s golf team returned to action 
for the 42nd annual Hanny Stanislaus 
Invitational, placing sixth out of a field 
of 18 and collectively shooting a 914 
in the two-day tournament. Junior Jeff 
Roseth led the way for the Tritons, 
tying for 12th.
The competition included all eight 
schools from the California Collegiate 
Athletics Association, six of which fin -
ished in the top seven of the tourna -
ment. Cal State Monterey Bay easily 
took the top spot with a wire-to-wire 
victory, hitting an 880 in the three-
round tournament. The Otters had a 
15-stroke advantage over second-place 
Cal State San Marcos.
The Tritons ended day one with 
a 607, 31 over par, good for eighth 
place. Roseth had a spectacular first 
round, hitting 3-under par in round 
one to tie for first with the tournament 
champion Anton Rosen, a sophomore from Cal State Monterey Bay. Roseth, 
however, would drop down 14 spots 
in the standings later in the day with a 
second round score of 80, 8-over par. 
The team would place in 8th at the end 
of day one.
“ As a team, we competed well the 
entire day and showed improvement, ” 
UCSD head coach Jim Ragan told the 
UCSD Athletic Department.
Roseth recovered with a 75 the 
following day in round three, which 
propelled him back up three spots for 
a 12th place finish out of 94 players.
“Jeff really bounced back to shoot 
a solid 75 in tough conditions, ” Ragan 
said.
Roseth’s teammate senior Jay Lim 
finished the tournament tied for 25th 
(229). Following closely behind Lim 
was junior Daniel Y ang, who finished 
in 30th with a score of 230. After plac -
ing sixth in the Pioneer Shootout two 
weeks ago, junior Clayton Y amaguchi SOFTBALL
Tritons Swept by No. 13 Humboldt State
Softball drops four close games in home matchup against California Collegiate 
Athletic Association leader and falls to seventh place in conference standings.
B Y Ka tie potts
Editorial assistant
See SOFTBALL  page 11 See M. GOLF  page 11PHOTO BY JESUS PACHECO / GUARDIANMEN'S GOLF
Season Best Performances
Led by Junior Jeff Roseth’s 12th place finish, UCSD 
takes sixth place in the Hanny Stanislaus Invitational.
B Y  Daniel sung 
senior staff writerTrack and Field
Softball
W. Water Polo
Baseball
M. Volleyball     4/18
     4/18
     4/18    
     4/18
     4/18AT Mt. SAC Relays
AT Cal State East Bay 
AT San Diego State
AT Cal State Stanislaus
AT UC IrvineUPCOMING
UCSD
GAMES