VOLUME 48, ISSUE 25  TUESDAY , JANUARY 20, 2015 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
GETTING 
PHYSICAL
AT MAIN GYM, UCSD STUDENTS 
CAN LEARN TO SHAKE OFF THE 
STRESS WITH DANCE LESSONS, 
IN ADDITION TO CRAFTS AND 
BREWING CLASSES. STUDENTS 
CAN ALSO SUGGEST THEIR 
OWN CLASSES.
TIFF ANY'S  GETS   CURRENT
HEA TING  UPJeweller  Has  Ad  Ft. Ga y Couple
basketball  streak  a t  fiveOpinion,  P age   4
sports,  P age  12
TUESDAY
H 66°F L 46°F WEDNESDAY
H 70°F L 40°F
THURSDAY
H 74°F L 50°FFRIDAY
H 78°F L 48°F
FORECAST
VERBATIM
GIVEN THAT THEY ARE OF 
THE SAME ETHNICITY, A 
CHRISTIAN CANDIDATE IS WAY 
MORE LIKELY TO FIND A HIGH 
PAYING JOB THAN A MUSLIM 
COUNTERPART.”
Ayat Amin & Marcus Thuillier
ACROSS THE GLOBE
OPINION , PAGE 4
INSIDE
LIGHTS AND SIRENS  ....... 2
MAIN EDITORIAL  ............. 4
DIVERSITY CONFERENCE  6
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU  ..10
SWIM AND DIVE  ............ 12“Fea tures,  P AGE  6
PHOTO BY THIBA THIAGARAJAN/
GUARDIAN
UCSD
The University of California will 
start directly supplying electricity 
to its campuses and medical centers 
throughout the month of January. 
A statement was released on Jan. 13 
by the UC Office of the President 
announcing that the UC system will 
no longer be using a third-party 
electric supplier.
The University of California’s 
Chief Financial Officer Nathan 
Brostrom said that the change is part 
of an initiative to become the first 
research university to achieve carbon 
neutrality by 2025.
“The University of California 
is committed to being a leader in sustainability and this brings us 
another step closer to achieving 
carbon neutrality, ” Brostrom said in 
the press release. “Making this switch 
will give UC more control over the 
type of energy it buys and provide 
our campuses and medical centers 
with more price transparency. ”
The UC system hopes that 
entering into its own long-term 
contracts will help it control 
electricity costs. UCSD’s Associate 
Director of Electricity & Utilities John 
Dilliott said that this would happen 
primarily by reducing overhead and 
profit margins that third parties have 
charged.
Dilliott explained to the Guardian 
that though UCSD is already partially 
self-sustaining in terms of energy, 
the UC system will now supply an amount of energy that UCSD 
previously did not. 
“UCSD does not currently 
generate 100 percent of the electricity 
needed to meet campus demand, ” 
Dilliott said. “We have been 
purchasing the imported electricity 
from a non-San Diego Gas and 
Electric provider since 1998. Now, 
UCOP is that third-party provider. ”
When asked what other energy 
options UCSD is exploring, Dilliott 
answered that, along with UCOP , the 
university is actively exploring using 
biogas sources to offset fossil fuels 
and natural gas.  
Last year, the UC system became a 
registered Electric Service Provider to 
allow its Wholesale Power Program Associated Students Concerts 
& Events discussed some of the 
changes being made to this year’s 
Sun God Festival in a Sun God 
Open Forum, which was held on 
Jan. 14 in the Great Hall at I-House. 
Major changes confirmed by the 
forum include a change in date of 
the concert, a shift to a daytime 
festival, a policy of no re-entry 
accompanied by increased security 
at the entrances and increased 
attractions on RIMAC Field. 
The forum, coordinated by 
the Inter-College Residents’ 
Association, aimed to inform 
residents of the Sun God Health 
and Safety Task Force’s goals for 
this year’s festival and to address 
residents’ reactions to proposed 
changes, allowing members of the 
Task Force and ASCE to answer any 
questions and make clarifications 
concerning any of the changes. 
The Sun God Festival organizers’ 
rationale behind many of the 
changes is not only due to concerns 
about student health and safety, but 
also largely because of the budget 
deficit that ASCE is currently 
working with while planning the 
concert. It took a financial hit last 
year after losing the revenue that 
would have come from the now-
banned guest ticket sales. 
Jordan Coburn, festival 
coordinator and ASCE 
representative to the Sun God Task 
Force, wants students to still be 
excited for the lineup that ASCE 
is putting together for the event 
and said that the shortening of the 
festival could actually mean better 
talent depending on negotiations. 
“It will be an awesome lineup, ” 
Coburn told the UCSD Guardian. 
“Essentially, we’re going to have less 
acts, and as a result, because we’re 
using the same talent budget from 
last year, we’ll have less slots with 
more money used for each. ”
Furthermore, students are being 
offered an extended Midway section 
this year in which there will be 
games, rides, entertainers and other 
activities as alternatives to the 
bands.
Other activities will be occurring 
on campus during the weekend 
of Sun God 2015, including the 
Fourth Annual Good Life Festival 
put on by Student Health & Well-
Being.  Last year’s festival featured a 
climbing wall, henna artists, prizes, 
healthy food and other attractions. 
Karen Calfas, Executive Director of 
Student Health & Well-Being and 
a member of the Sun God Task 
Force, explained that the Good Forum Seeks 
to Address 
Sun God 
Concerns CAMPUS
ASCE and ICRA confirmed 
that the changes are a result 
of health and safety issues as 
well as a budget deficit.
B Y Br ynna Bol t
Staff Writer
See SUN GOD  page 3UC Will Become Electrically Self-Sufficient
Electricity will be supplied directly to UC campuses and medical centers this month.UCSD Hosts Security and 
Human Rights Conference
  B y  Jacky To     Staff Writer EDUCATION
Scholars and policymakers gathered at UCSD to dis -
cuss the human rights issues attached to the unprec -
edented violence in Mexico and Central America during 
a two-day conference on Jan. 15 to 16. The conference 
— “Citizenship, Security and Human Rights in Mexico 
and Central America” — is the first major one of its kind 
to take place since the 2014 Iguala mass disappearance 
and President Obama’s recent announcement on plans for 
immigration reform.
The Center for U.S. — Mexican Studies at the IR/PS and 
Eleanor Roosevelt College’s Human Rights Programs orga -
nized the conference. International House, the Center on 
Global Justice, Blum Cross-Border Initiative and Scholars 
Strategy Network also co-sponsored the conference.
It began on Jan. 15 by showcasing student work regard -
ing the issues, which included fieldwork and poster presen -
tations. The event then transitioned into a discussion about 
security at the intersection of citizenship and human rights 
in Mexico. 
Following that, the conference hosted a book panel 
to examine the politics and communities of violence and crime in Latin America. The two main subtopics were 
extralegal violence and its justifications and crafting crimi -
nals to legitimize violence. 
Authors and scholars Pablo Piccato (Columbia 
University); David Carey, Jr. (Loyola University Maryland); 
Gema Santamaria and Luis Herran (The New School for 
Social Research) served as panelists. Associate professor 
of history at Boston University Jeffrey Rubin moderated 
a questions & answers session with the panelists directly 
after. 
The first day of the conference ended with a roundtable 
discussion in Spanish, focusing on the consequences of 
the 2014 Iguala incident in which the criminal organiza -
tion Guerreros Unidos abducted and allegedly massacred 
the students, likely in coordination with local government 
and police forces. The speakers discussed how the incident 
has produced an overwhelming civil society response in 
Mexico and across the world, calling for an end to impunity 
for the violators of human rights.
Carlos Vilalta (Centro de Investigacion y Docencia 
Economicas) moderated the discussion with Maria Teresa 
UC S y stem
B Y   Jacky TO
Staff writerSee CONFERENCE , page 3
See ELECTRICITY , page 2
Professor Alberto Diaz-Cayeros addresses attendees at the Security and Human Rights Conference held on campus last week.
Photo taken by Cory Wong/ UCSD Guardian.Life Festival was moved from the 
Thursday of Week 4 to the Saturday 
before Sun God 2015 in an effort 
to involve students and make them 
better aware of how to live a healthy 
lifestyle.
The Sun God Festival itself is 
being moved to the Sunday of Week 
5 during Spring Quarter as well.
Student Health & Well-Being is 
also involved with the educational 
component of the Sun God Festival, 
including the Sun God Festival 
Floaties program. 
Floaties receive instruction in 
special Bystander Intervention 
Techniques, which teach how to 
intervene when friends are making 
unsafe choices, and alcohol 
education, which teaches how to 
recognize when someone is too 
intoxicated, among other things.
When asked why changes were continually to be made to the 
festival, Director of Student Life and 
Task Force member Alex Kushner 
emphasized that health and safety 
concerns were not only rooted in 
the number of students historically 
needing to enter detox facilities, but 
in the detrimental effect that the 
high number of hospitalizations was 
having on the San Diego community 
as well.
A new component of the detox 
centers, level two detox, which was 
monitored by medical professionals, 
was introduced in an effort to 
occupy less hospital beds and reduce 
the adverse effects of the festival on 
local medical centers. 
However, Kushner revealed that 
the number of students going to the 
hospital, when added to the number 
of students going to level two detox, 
was ultimately the same as the 
number of students hospitalized in 
the past. “We haven’t successfully changed 
the culture of the festival, ” Kushner 
told the forum. “Our students 
continued to engage in risky 
behavior that resulted in a need for 
medical aid. ”
However, the Task Force went 
on to say that it hoped to dispel 
the myth that the festival would be 
cancelled if students still went to 
detox for treatment. 
ICRA President William Hsu 
attended the first Task Force 
meeting of this quarter prior to the 
forum and told the Guardian that 
he is happy to see the committee 
moving forward and creating new 
solutions. 
“I do want to make sure that 
there’s safety, but I also want to make 
sure that the different aspects of 
student life offered to our residents 
on campus are satisfying, ” Hsu said. 
ASCE Festival Director Shawn 
Kennedy addressed transportation concerns for students living 
off campus by saying that the 
organization is attempting to 
renegotiate with the transportation 
service Uber to gain coupon codes 
for students during Sun God 2015. 
Last year, ASCE was one of the 
first groups to secure such codes for 
students who were already using the 
service. 
Other members of the Task 
Force present at the conference 
included Associate Dean of Student 
Affairs and Director of Resident 
Life Reynaldo Guerrero, Chief 
of UCSD Police David Rose, and 
representative Blanka Pentek. A
lso in attendance was Associated 
Vice President of Concerts and 
Events Seraphin Raya. 2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , JANUARY 20, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG N EWS
AVERAGE CAT By Christina Carlson
Registration for WINTER Qtr is NOW open!
Register online at 
as.ucsd.edu/saferides
A.S. Safe Rides allows register ed un dergradua te 
studen ts to  get 3  FREE rides per quarter.
Studen ts must register  at lea st 24 hours
prio r to their first ride.  A.S. Safe Rides 
asucsd asucsd
#OMG 
#LIKE US
#FOLLOW US
@ucsdguar dianBr ynna Bol t  bbolt@ucsd.edu readers can contactThe Festival Will Not Be Cancelled If  Students Choose T o Receive Detox Treatment
▶ SUN GOD,  from page 1
Like us on Facebook
facebook.com/ucsdguardianThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and 
Thursdays during the academic year by UCSD students 
and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this 
newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, 
without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2014, all 
rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible 
for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The 
views expressed herein do not necessarily represent 
the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of 
California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian 
is funded by advertising. STAMPede.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Audrey Sechrest
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Aleksandra Konstantinovic
Andrew E. Huang  
Taylor Sanderson
Tina Butoiu
Charu Mehra
Brandon Yu
John Story
Teiko Yakobson
Jacqueline Kim
Kyle Somers
Nilu Karimi
Siddharth Atre
Joselynn Ordaz
Elyse Yang
Annie Liu
Rosina Garcia
Laura Chow
Vincent PhamEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
  
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Social Media Coordinator
Training and Development
Page Layout
Sherman Aline, Allison Kubo, Sidney Gao
Copy Readers
Andrew Chao, Caroline Lee, Micaela Stone
Editorial Assistants
Shelby Newallis, Jennifer Grundman, Kriti Sarin, 
Karly Nisson, Sasha Pollock, Mario Attie, Marcus Thullierto serve as the primary energy 
supplier to UCSD, UC Irvine, UC 
San Francisco and its medical centers, 
as well as for UC Santa Cruz, UC 
Merced and a number of other areas 
throughout the UC campuses. A governing board with representatives 
from UC Berkeley, UC Davis, UC 
Irvine, UC Merced, UCSD, UCSF 
and UCSC will oversee the university 
system’s Wholesale Power Program. 
Also, the University of California 
announced plans last September to 
sign two power purchase agreements with Frontier Renewables — the 
largest solar energy purchase by any 
U.S. higher education institution — 
to secure solar energy for the UC 
system for 25 years.Sierra (Centro de Investigaciones y 
Estudios Superiores en Antropologia 
Social), Abel Barrera Hernandez 
(Tlachinollan Human Rights Center 
of the Montana), Alberto Diaz-
Cayeros (Stanford University) and 
journalist Marcel Turati (Centro de 
Investigación y Docencia Económicas) 
serving as speakers. 
Dean of the School of International 
Relations and Pacific Studies Peter 
Cowhey thinks Latin American citi -
zens are becoming increasingly des -
perate for the violence to cease. 
 “Increasing crime in Mexico and 
Central America has made life in these 
countries more precarious and inse -cure, causing citizens to become more 
willing to approve the state’s use of 
force and even to take matters into 
their own hands, ” Cowhey said.
On the conference’s second and 
final day, a panel gathered to exam -
ine human rights and transnational 
violence, focusing on those who have 
borne the largest brunt of the violence. 
The panel also discussed the gen -
dered, generational and racial nature 
of violence in response to the trends 
of femicide and domestic violence, as 
well as the discoveries of mass graves 
of Central American migrants and the 
continued detention and deportation 
of youths.
Associate professor of sociology 
David FitzGerald delivered an intro -duction and moderated a questions 
& answers session with the panel -
ists — Lynn Stephen (University of 
Oregon), Shannon Speed (University 
of Texas, Austin) and UCSD asso -
ciate professor of communication 
Elana Zilberg. 
The conference ended with 
a roundtable discussion debat -
ing transnational policy respons -
es. Everard Meade moderated the 
discussion with Rafael Fernandez 
de Castro (Instituto Tecnologico 
Autonomo de Mexico) and Maureen 
Meyer (Washington Office on Latin 
America) serving as speakers. N EWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , JANUARY 20, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
Level One of Pric e Center Eas t
onebutt on.ucsd. eduRehearse individual or gr oup pr esenta tions a tLIGHTS & SIRENSLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edu.
Friday, Jan. 9
4:05 p.m.: Medical Aid
A young adult female was possibly 
having a miscarriage in 1 Miramar 
Building 2. Transported to hospital.
8:51 p.m.: Unknown Trouble
Screaming was heard from a male 
and female subject in the Revelle 
Apartments. Checks ok.
Saturday, Jan. 10
12:13 a.m.: Smoke Check
A community service officer reported 
a fire alarm sounding and white 
smoke coming from a building in the 
North Mesa Apartments. Checks ok.
Sunday, Jan. 11
1:59 a.m.: Disturbance
A couple was arguing outside the 
Marshall Apartments West. One 
subject transported to hospital for 
detox.
6:39 p.m.: Injury
An adult male was found lying on 
a bench by Sun God Field and had 
hit his head previously but didn’t 
remember how. Transported to 
hospital.
Monday, Jan. 12
10:49 a.m.: Suspicious Person
A non-affiliate adult male was 
watching pornography on a public 
computer in the Price Center. Stay 
Away Order issued.
7 p.m.: Petty Theft
A gym bag containing miscellaneous 
items was stolen from RIMAC, with 
an estimated loss of $678. Report 
taken.
9:40 p.m.: Welfare Check
An adult male reportedly requested 
medics, stating he had shingles and 
was depressed. Gone on arrival.Tuesday, Jan. 13
5:12 a.m.: Discharging a Firearm
A male and female subject reported 
hearing three gunshots by the 
Student Center Building A. Unable 
to locate.
4:40 a.m.: Vandalism
An unknown object was used 
to smash a Town Square water 
fountain, resulting in $1 million in 
damages. Report taken.
7:43 p.m.: Disturbance
A subject in the Matthews 
Apartments was reportedly under the 
influence of drugs and fighting with 
roommates. Transported to hospital.
Wednesday, Jan. 14
9:24 a.m.: Suspicious Person
An adult male and female subject 
were reportedly going into dumpsters 
by Regents Road. Unable to locate.
4:26 p.m.: Medical Aid
A Price Center employee fell and 
burned herself with hot food. 
Transported to hospital.
Thursday, Jan. 15
11:24 a.m.: Medical Aid
A young adult female in Price Center 
Theater felt dizzy and collapsed. 
Transported to hospital.
4:04 p.m.: Hazard Situation
According to Facilities Management, 
a large amount of blood was 
found in the women’s restroom at 
the Humanities & Social Sciences 
Building. Referred to Environment, 
Health & Safety.
— ANDREW E. HUANG
Managing Editor  Panelists Focus And Examine Who Experiences The Most Violence
UC Solar Energy Purchase Will Be Largest Amongst Universities ▶ CONFERENCE,  from page 1
▶ ELECTRICITY ,  from page 1Jacky To    j6to@ucsd.edu readers can contact
Jacky To    j6to@ucsd.edu readers can contact
4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , JANUARY 20, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CHARU  MEHRA
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Suis-je Charlie?
Taking advantage of  freedom of  speech should not be 
synonymous with foregoing all common sense. 
ILLUSTRATION BY ANNIE LIUThe Roots 
of  Global
Islamophobia
Hate crimes against Muslims 
in the United States have 
always been tied up to the 
tragedy of 9/11. In the months fol -
lowing the terrorist attacks, there 
were about 700 reports compared 
to only 100 complaints beforehand, 
and the number went back down 
to 115 only in 2007, based on data 
from the American-Arab Anti-
Discrimination Committee. This 
number is pretty staggering, consid -
ering Muslims only make up about 
1 percent of the American popula -
tion. In America, the ghost of 9/11 
looms large, and Arabs, Muslims, 
Sikhs and anyone with brown 
skin have suffered for it. But while 
America’s hate is somewhat explain -
able (although not excusable), hate 
crimes against Muslims in France 
make a little less sense.
France has the largest population 
of Muslims in Europe, by far, with 
7.5 percent of the total population in 
France in 2010 — about 4.7 million 
people, according to a Pew Research 
Center study. Hate crimes in France 
are not only growing but have existed 
for a long time, even longer than the 
American anti-Muslim sentiment, 
as they stem from France’s colonial 
past. Nothing quite explains the expo -
nential rise in recent years, though. 
We can observe peaks in years when 
France was discussing laws against 
wearing the niqab in school (2004), 
debate on national identity (2009) or 
another law against the veil (2010). 
Whenever Islam got national 
attention, hate crimes targeting 
the Muslim population increased. 
There has been a stunning incline 
in the last five years: The number of 
Islamophobic crimes went from 188 
to 691 (368 percent increase) between 
2010 and 2013 (data by le Collectif 
contre l’islamophobie en France), 
which coincides with the rise of the 
National Front, a right-wing extremist 
party, in recent elections.
Again, the crime rate increase is 
somewhat understandable in America 
in the aftermath of 9/11, but the 
Islamophobia in France has deeper 
roots. Also, France really does not 
make as much of an effort to inte -
grate Muslims into the population. 
Given that they are of the majority 
ethnicity, a Christian candidate is 
way more likely to find a high-paying 
job than a Muslim counterpart, says 
the Washington Post. On top of that, 
criminality among Muslims hits a 
very high rate in France, and the 
number of inmates who are Muslim is 
about 60 to 70 percent, also according 
to the Washington Post. 
Looking back now at the Charlie 
Hebdo tragedy, this incident might 
seem like a random, isolated hate 
crime to Americans, but the French 
realized the horrific reality behind it. 
This terrorist act has much deeper 
roots in anti-Muslim sentiments that 
have long existed before the U.S. ’s 
and continue to be perpetrated in 
France. It comes from the increas -
ing isolation of Muslim populations 
in France, and the global feeling 
of uneasiness toward this topic is 
something that Americans have 
never experienced before. These fac -
tors indubitably led to the terrifying 
attacks that sparked the biggest wave 
of unifying protests against terrorism 
in the world since 9/11.Many readers of this paper are probably aware of the 
terrorist attack on French magazine Charlie Hebdo, but 
here’s the gist anyway: 12 dead and 11 more injured 
— primarily satirical journalists and cartoonists, targeted on 
Jan. 6, apparently for depicting the Prophet Muhammad without 
sufficient respect in their magazine. There is no ambiguity in these 
facts. 
The latest edition of Charlie Hebdo, of which 5 million copies 
have been printed and distributed worldwide (by comparison, its 
average circulation is around 50,000), again displays Muhammad 
very prominently on its cover. It is selling for over a $1,000 a copy 
on eBay, as reported by Time magazine. The surviving Charlie 
Hebdo staff could not have ignored the phenomenon the magazine 
had become in less than a week and were obliged, surely, to 
maintain their stance. As an unapologetic publication, running 
under the tagline “journal irresponsible” and one that will never 
be scrutinized and appraised so closely again, this issue of Charlie 
Hebdo had to act as an advertisement for everything that it has 
come to embody: the right to offend whosoever we choose to 
offend, uncowed journalism, a publically secular France.     
But as principled and remunerative as all that might be, one 
has to question whether any of it is wise. A leader of the Y emeni branch of al-Qaida took responsibility for the attacks last week 
and warned that there is more coming to the unbelievers. Every 
impulse is to defy that man, to parade threatened freedoms 
brazenly, but in doing so, there is surely the possibility that the 
most basic right to life will be put at risk.
The unwritten code beneath the First Amendment to this 
country’s Constitution must dictate that if freedoms are to be 
acted upon by all men equally, they must be practiced within 
bounds of common sense. The same applies to the laws of all other 
nations that enshrine free speech and religion (France, of course, 
among them). Consider that, in the last 15 years, Charlie Hebdo 
has depicted aspects of Islam on its front cover more often than 
any other religion, and one can tell a Muslim in a Charlie Hebdo 
cartoon because he will always wear a turban and a beard. The first 
terroristic response to this was in 2011, when the Charlie Hebdo 
offices in Paris were firebombed. After that attack, the editor 
commonly known as Charb said that he had no dependents and 
that he would rather “die standing up than live on [his] knees. ” 
That may well be so, and it is his right to say so, but he was not the 
only one to die when the terrorists came again: Along with Charb 
and the cartoonists, two police officers and a building maintenance 
worker were also killed. 
See CHARLIE,  page 5Marcus Thuillier & A y a t amin
opinion@ucsdguardian.orgAcross the Globe
Tiffany & Co. ’s same-sex engagement ring advertisement is clearly just a 
publicity stunt, but the fact that the company is centering a marketing campaign 
on gay couples shows what kind of fundamental political transformation has 
taken place in America over the past few years. 
Since the 2013 Supreme Court case United States v. Windsor, American 
has been taken by a storm of same-sex marriage legalization, and it only seems 
natural for the winds of change to continue until all 50 states approve. But even 
just 10 years ago, lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender politics were out of the 
mainstream. During the 2004 presidential election, same-sex marriage bans 
passed by overwhelming margins in 11 states. Even true-blue California would 
do the same four years later. Furthermore, then-Senator Barack Obama said 
while campaigning, “I believe that marriage is the union between a man and a 
woman … I am not somebody who promotes same-sex marriage. ”
 The Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell Repeal Act of 2010 started the political 
mandate that the LGBT community has today. Almost five months later, a 
Gallup poll recorded, for the first time in history, that a majority of Americans 
approved of marriages between same-sex couples as being recognized by the 
law as valid and having the same rights as traditional marriages. The next year, 
Obama became the first sitting U.S. president to openly support same-sex 
marriage. Then, during the summer of 2013, Associate Justice of the Supreme 
Court Anthony Kennedy wrote his famous majority opinion about the dignity 
in striking down the Defense of Marriage Act — and the rest is history.
 Today, Tiffany targets same-sex couples for a sales grab. Tomorrow: 
who knows? There might be something more substantial, like a gay president.
—  JORDAN UTLEY-THOMPSON
Staff WriterBeacon of  Romantic Gift-Giving Follows String of  
Other Popular Retailers in Strategic Corporate MoveTiffany’s Ad Is Retail Gimmickry, but Is Also 
Representative of  Progressive Political Climate
Tiffany & Co. is the latest company to join the trend of retailers featuring 
same-sex couples in their advertisements, with a recent Tiffany ad showing 
a real-life gay couple sitting by their apartment. It was a pleasant, nonchalant 
depiction of the LGBT community, apart from the men’s ridiculous good looks. 
When Tiffany & Co. was founded 178 years ago, this ad campaign would have 
been unfathomable. Corporations have gradually realized that supporting 
same-sex marriage is crucial for their popularity among young adults. Tiffany’s 
ad is part of a positive trend among retailers that will improve the company’s 
popularity and increase public compassion for the LGBT community out of the 
realm of politics. 
Various businesses have already publicized their support for same-sex 
couples. Last year, Amazon supported gay marriage with a Kindle commercial in 
which a man and a woman lounge on the beach while both of them talk about 
their respective husbands. Other popular retailers that have utilized same-sex 
couples in ad campaigns include Gap, Banana Republic, J.C. Penney and J. Crew. 
According to a Gallup report, support for same-sex marriage among Americans 
has reached an all-time high of 55 percent. With about eight in 10 young adults 
approving of gay marriage, it is vital that retailers adapt to their preferences. 
Although Tiffany & Co. is simply reacting to the current cultural 
expectations, the company still deserves credit for altering its classic definition 
of romance to something a little more diverse. A spokeswoman for Tiffany & 
Co. said that “true love” occurs in many forms. For ages, this jeweler has molded 
public perceptions of romance and love. As it opens its doors to the LGBT 
community, it also opens the minds of Americans.
— CASSIA POLLOCK
Editorial Assistant
QUICK TAKESTIFFANY & CO. RECENTLY RELEASED AN AD CAMPAIGN WHICH FEATURED A GAY COUPLE FOR THE FIRST 
TIME IN THE COMPANY’S HISTORY, FOLLOWING A GROWING TREND AMONG RETAILERS. BY SAM THOBURN CONTRIBUTING WRITEROPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , JANUARY 20, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
So in many cases, this common 
sense is not present in the judgment 
of precisely those that should be most 
judicious, namely popular media 
outlets, and in service of the story 
they create and perpetuate the most 
damaging misconceptions: 2014 Ipsos 
MORI polls found that “on average, 
people in France think 31 percent of 
the population [is] Muslim, when the 
actual figure is only 8 percent. ”
As a result of this hysteria, the 
gradual spread of Islam is seen 
in Europe as a flood to be fought 
against frantically. Far-right parties 
are thriving on that terror; in France, 
Marine Le Pen’s Front National, a 
party entirely opposed to immigration, topped the polls in last year’s European 
elections. Human mobility has 
never been so great, and to oppose 
immigration is to deny the age. This is 
not the way.
Nor is it sufficient, however, to 
dismiss the growing trend: In each 
of the most high-profile instances of 
terror in the world today — Charlie 
Hebdo, Boko Haram in Nigeria, the 
Islamic State group in its burgeoning 
caliphate — the source, if not the final 
justification for murder, is a common 
Islam. It is understood that terrorists 
are radicalized and unrepresentative of 
the religion as it usually manifests in a 
person. Behind the dreadful rhetoric 
and superimposed hatefulness, though, 
the kernel of a terrorist’s inhumanity 
must lie somewhere in the religion he once followed. To kill a man for lines 
on a page is not human.
After the 2005 London terrorist 
attacks, the U.K. Prime Minister at the 
time, Tony Blair, identified the single 
greatest priority for life afterwards: 
“ Above all, we act to maintain our way 
of life. ” As far as that goes, this just is 
not a credible stratagem any more, if it 
ever was. 
When it comes on the news that 
the “terror alert” has been raised, as it 
recently was in the U.K., despite there 
no being “no credible threats, ” the 
government itself is telling its citizens 
to be scared. What can be done in the 
face of that?
winter wonderlandBEAR GARDEN
FREE FOR ALL UCSD UNDERGRADS
JANUARY 23, 3-6 PM, MATTHEWS QUAD
Churros
El TigreLittle
CaesarsDelicioso
Catering
Food TruckKettle
Masters 
Kettle Korn
WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
No Party Is Without Fault in the Current Fight Against Terrorism
▶ CHARLIE,  from page 4GOT ISSUES?
BE HEARD
BY YOUR PEERS!SEND YOUR 
LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
READERS CAN CONTACT
SAM THOBURN  STHOBURN@UCSD.EDU6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , JANUARY 20, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
TEIKO Y AKOBSON
features@ucsdguardian.org
Written by  Sam Shapiro  Contributing Writer  // Photo by Sam Shapiro
ucsdguardian.org
Sam  shapiro    sjshapiro@ucsd.edu readers can contactProtecting theLearning Environment
Students and staff come together to create the ideal classroom setting.
U        CSD prides itself on consistently being ranked in the 
upper tier of public universities for a variety of academic 
measures. But recently, the university has been taking 
steps to make sure that it excels in areas other than academics. 
This past week, UCSD held its second Teaching Diversity Confer -
ence, which aspires, as stated on its website, to “explore, identify 
and develop student-centered pedagogy and practices with an aim 
toward building a more inclusive campus environment. ”
Attendees of the conference — primarily students, faculty and 
interested community members — were given the opportunity 
to choose between a variety of panels and guest speakers to hear 
from.
The event was held in the Price Center, with three shifts of six or 
seven sessions at a time in various locations in 75-minute incre -
ments.
Any inquisitive student (and there were quite a few) who wan -
dered into the Eleanor Roosevelt Room between 9:45 a.m. and 11 
a.m. would have witnessed the Leadership and the Classroom Ex -
perience Panel, wherein current undergraduate students interning 
at the Campus Community Centers discussed their experiences 
working with other students inside and outside of the classroom 
setting.
Other seminars, such as “Embodied Physics: A Partnership 
Between Physics, Art, Dance and Cognitive Science to Address 
Learning Barriers in Physical Science, ” took a less traditional 
approach. One session was titled “ A Plea For Laughter: Comedy 
for Oppositionists and Others, ” and featured UCSD professor of 
ethnic studies K. Wayne Y ang leading an intriguing discussion on 
how standup comedy can serve as a way to explore social issues for 
students of different backgrounds.
The keynote speaker was Dr. Shari Saunders of the University of 
Michigan, an expert in creating classroom environments condu -
cive to learning for students from multiple backgrounds. Saunders’ 
expertise as a member of the National Advisory Committee of the 
National Conference on Race and Ethnicity in American Higher 
Education makes her one of the most respected voices in her field.
“Y ou must ask yourself, ” Dr. Saunders said, “where are you in 
terms of readiness as individual instructors or students to handle 
the demands of the discussion of the topic of diversity?”
Saunders went on to discuss the importance of teachers, stu -
dents and faculty members working together to create an inclusive classroom setting. Although her speech had the highest attendance 
of any event, with almost 100 audience members present, the rest of 
the sessions had very solid turnouts as well.
Sarah Schneewind, a professor of Chinese studies here on 
campus, told the UCSD Guardian that she attended the programs 
throughout the day to gain more insight into the campus issues 
facing not only Chinese students, but underrepresented African-
American students as well.
“It’s difficult when you get a class of 200 students, like many of 
mine, where there is only one black student. The black student has 
to repress his or her individuality and take on the role of spokes -
man for the black race, ” Schneewind said.
Schneewind added that it’s important to make the campus a 
more comfortable environment for minority students in order to 
facilitate retention of more of these students on campus.
“It’s easy for students to show up to campus and look around 
and say, ‘There’s no one else like me here. I don’t belong here, ’” 
she said. “We need a diverse population on campus here in order 
for people to think correctly, regardless of their race. Our pursuit 
of truth cannot be complete without diversity; that’s just how the 
world works. ”
She was glad to hear from Executive Vice Chancellor of Aca -
demic Affairs Suresh Subramani in his opening remarks that ef -
forts are being made to make minority students feel more at home.
“It’s unfortunate that I only get three hours a week for 10 weeks 
to work with my students and I don’t get rewarded for working 
with students — I get rewarded for my research, ” Schneewind 
said. “It’s hard for me to help students adapt to the culture here, 
especially when I have hundreds of them in each class that I teach. 
It’s promising that Chancellor Khosla, Vice Chancellor Subramani 
and the rest of the faculty are working to get smaller classes and 
consistent advising for minority students. ”
Judging by the continued large attendance throughout the 
day, the event will likely remain popular among UCSD students 
and faculty, especially once word spreads to others who couldn’t 
make it this time around. According to co-chair of the conference, 
Edwina Welch, and Muir College Provost John Moore, the plan 
going forward is to continue hosting the event on a biannual basis. 
Regardless of when the next time is, events like this are bringing 
the campus closer to achieving the ideal learning environment for 
students of all backgrounds.FEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , JANUARY 20, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
 
 Apply now for 2015 and learn more about each program at usfca.edu/asgrad.  
 GRADU ATE PROGRAMS A T
UNIVERSITY OF 
SAN FRANCISC O
CHANGE THE WORLD FROM HERE MASTER’S PROGRAMS AT USF
> Analytics 
> Asia Paciﬁc Studies> Biology > Biotechnology > Collegiate Athletics > Computer Science > Development Economics > Economics > Environmental Management 
> International Studies
> Public Aﬀairs > Sport Management > Urban Aﬀairs > Writing, MFAWritten by  Sam Shapiro  Contributing Writer  // Photo by Sam ShapiroAfter a long day of sitting in class, students can sign up to shake off 
stress and learn some new dance moves at Main Gym. This quarter, 
classes such as Nia Dance, House Dance, Afro Caribbean Dance 
and Line Dancing will be available. Hip Hop Commercial Dance, based on 
energetic jazz dancing that is quickly gaining popularity, will be taught by 
Hector Fletes, who has previously taught at Disneyland. Tai Chi for Dancers, 
taught by Janice Montgomery, will be based on Tai Chi Exercise Form 28 
and Universal Form 24 and is great for those who are looking to strengthen 
their bodies and increase their flexibility.
For the food lovers, Tamale Trio and Super Bowl a la Mexicana will give 
chances for students to learn how to make delicious Mexican dishes and eat 
them afterward. These classes will be taught by Carmen Bernard Baca, a chef 
found through Craigslist because of the department’s desire to provide Mexi -
can cooking classes for students. Baca also teaches about Mexico’s diverse cul -
ture and the background of the many dishes students will be learning to create.
Associate Director of Rec Classes Laurel Dean expressed her excitement 
about these classes.
“People not only get to learn how to make the tamales, but they get to 
eat all these tamales the same day. ” Dean told the UCSD Guardian. “[Baca] 
brings in these little things about Mexico and about the culture, what’s 
behind the food — those sort of things — so you learn an awful lot as you’re 
watching her cook. ”
Mexican cuisine is not the only way to experience dining at the recreation 
center; Home Brewing 101 is also an option this quarter. This workshop will 
be available as a three-hour class on the process behind making beer. 
 “Y ou don’t have to be 21 to take [Home Brewing 101] because it’s not 
about drinking beer; it’s about learning the process, the technique behind 
making beer — all the chemistry and science, ” Dean said.
Those wanting to learn a new talent or hobby can try out Intro to 
Harmonica, Beginning Guitar or Beginning Ukulele. Students can also 
show their more creative side in Learn to Sew, which will focus on machine 
stitching; Needlecrafts, which will teach knitting and hand embroidery; 
Figure Sketching, a class aimed at fashion figure drawing; and even How not 
to Suck at Improv (Fundamentals of Improv), in which Vanessa Anton will 
teach students to handle nervousness when put on the spot.
For anyone with more of an itch to move, an introduction class for almost 
every sport will be available. Basketball, boxing, archery, golf, volleyball, 
continued  on page  8Photo by  Thiba Thiagarajan
Written by  Soo Yun Park  // Contributing Writer 
ucsdguardian.orgCHECK OUT OUR WEBSITE ONLINEWith the start of a new quarter comes 10 more 
weeks of grueling morning classes, five-page 
papers, and a never-ending onslaught of mid -
terms and finals. However, UCSD also offers 
many chances for students to relax and release 
stress in the form of various recreation classes. The  Rec- Class y
 WayNew  Years
Resolutions 8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , JANUARY 20, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEA TURES
fencing and many more classes are perfect for begin -
ning athletes. Badminton will be taught by Jacky 
Zhang, a former player with the national Chinese 
badminton team and now a UCSD student. For those 
tight on money, a free racquetball workshop will be 
held in the RIMAC courts during the winter quarter. 
The Bootcamp Training in the Gym: Strength and 
Flexibility Training class can be taken by athletes or 
by anyone else generally focused on staying fit and 
healthy. Aerial Silks Acrobats can provide starting 
experience as a member of the incredible Cirque de 
Soleil. Learning a type of martial arts such as Aikido, 
Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu or Tae Kwon Do will be beneficial 
for self-defense. 
All recreation classes are taught by hired profes -
sionals, UCSD’s own staff members or even students. A few classes, such as Intro to Harmonica and Aerial 
Silk Acrobatics, were started as ideas first proposed 
by students who wanted to offer their knowledge to 
others. Aerial Silk was started three years ago by a 
student who offered to teach the class based on his 
previous experience, and who is now studying in 
France for his senior year.
“[Aerial Silk Acrobatics] happened because a 
student came when he was a freshman. He stood at 
my doorway here and said, ‘I took a silks class in high 
school and we don’t have it here. Would you be inter -
ested in starting it? I’ll teach it. ’” Dean said. “So that’s 
an example of a student coming who’s interested in 
[teaching] something. ”
Dean also said that she would be happy to try out 
new and interesting classes in an ongoing effort to find something that would interest everyone on cam -
pus. In the past, there have been a number of unique 
classes on beekeeping and on how to raise chickens 
in a backyard.
“We’re here for the students. So if the students 
want something, we’re happy to make it happen, ” 
Dean said. “If I don’t take [the class], I try to duck in 
and watch a lot of them, just to see how much fun all 
the students are having. ”
As an integral part of our campus, UCSD Recre -
ation offers more than just different recreation classes. 
It will also be hosting a campuswide trash pick-up day 
on Feb. 21. Pollination Protection Agency members and 
volunteers will spend the day beautifying the campus, re -
ceiving a free milkweed plant for participating. In many 
ways, cleaning can be a form of stress relief as well.continued from page  6
PHOTO BY THIBA THIAGARAJAN / GUARDIAN FILESPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , JANUARY 20, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
movement on offense. ”
Klie had another double-digit 
scoring night with 11 points and 
also had a game-high six dimes. 
Dyer finished with 10 points of his 
own. 
UCSD’s bench provided solid 
contributions throughout the game, 
outscoring the Toros’ bench 25 to 
eight. Junior forward Zach McMil -
lan finished with five points and a 
game-high 11 boards, leading the 
Tritons to a 42–23 advantage on the 
glass. Buaku posted eight points 
and seven rebounds in 18 minutes 
of play. After a quiet night against 
Los Angeles, Pepperdine transfer 
Jeff Van Dyke hit 3-4 from three for 
11 points.After being predicted to finish 
ninth in conference, the Tritons 
are beginning to prove their worth 
after a rocky start to the season. The 
Tritons are currently in a three-way 
tie for second place in the Califor -
nia Collegiate Athletics Association 
standings. Only Cal State Stanislaus 
is ahead with an 8–2 conference 
record. 
The Tritons look to extend their 
win streak to six and seven this 
coming Friday and Saturday when 
they return to La Jolla for their two-
game homestand against Cal State 
San Bernardino (6–4) and Hum -
boldt State University (4–5). Both 
games will tip-off at 7:30 p.m.“I think we have a very smart 
basketball team and they under -
stand what they need to do in order 
to be successful, ” VanDerveer said. 
“I thought we did a great job to take 
away a lot of their favorite things. ”  
For UCSD, Shokoor had her 
ninth double-double of the sea -
son with 15 points and an amaz -
ing 18 rebounds. Dana Webster 
again contributed with 11 points 
and nine rebounds. Sophomore 
guard Beth Mounier provided a 
spark off the bench with 11 points, including three three-pointers. 
“We did a great job finishing the 
game especially on the back end 
of a back-to-back, ” VanDerveer 
said. “Especially after you didn’t 
bring your A-game, and then you 
need to go against an excellent 
team. [UCSD knows] they can 
reach a higher standard and we 
showed that in our second game. ” 
Despite the loss to Los Angeles, 
Saturday’s victory proved crucial, 
as the blue and gold trail Cal State 
Dominguez Hills by one game in 
league standings. UCSD is now in a 
tie for fourth place with Cal State San Bernardino, while the Toros are tied 
with Cal Poly Pomona for second. 
Only Humboldt State University re -
mains unchallenged at the top with 
a flawless 10–0 conference record. 
The Tritons will have a perfect 
opportunity to move up in the stand -
ings as they return to RIMAC Arena 
this week for a tough and hugely 
important pair of games, facing 
Cal State San Bernardino on Friday 
and Humboldt State the next day. 
Both games will tip-off at 5:30 p.m. 
YEARN EW
SHIRTSN EW
to.ucsd.edu 
Tritons Will Face T op League Contenders in Coming Week
▶ W. BASKETBALL,  from page 12
readers can contact
marcus thuillier     mthuilli@ucsd.edu 
free and 10:23.96 in the 1000-free.  
Sophomore Austine Lee im -
proved her NCAA consideration 
qualifier time by nearly a full sec -
ond with a 1:04.04 first-place 
finish in the 100-breaststroke.
“My strengths are in my underwa -
ter, so I took a really strong pullout, ” 
Lee said. “I just knew I had to drive 
forward and really close my feet. 
That’s just what I thought about the 
whole race, and it got me through. ” Lee, Daley, freshman Angie Phet -
benjakul and sophomore Catherine 
Woo teamed up to finish with the top 
time of 1:35.93 in the 200-free relay. 
Woo was also a first-place winner in 
the 200-free with a time of 1:54.34. 
Prior to the meet, a total of 
11 graduating Tritons — eight 
women and three men — were 
honored, including co-captains 
Galvan and Summer Bennett.
“It’s just great to see all of the se -
niors swim really well and make it 
through all four years because I know it’s tough, ” Lee said. “UC San Diego 
is such a great school and it’s hard 
enough in academics, so it’s great to 
see them finish strong [in the pool]. ” 
With the conclusion of Saturday’s 
meet, the Triton men will begin pre -
paring for the postseason, with their 
regular season over, while the Triton 
women have one more dual meet re -
maining against San Diego State Uni -
versity on Saturday, Jan. 31 at home. Women T o Compete in Final Regular Season Meet Against SDSU
▶ SWIM/DIVE,  from page 12
readers can contact
brandon yu     bcyu@ucsd.edu Men On Best Streak Since 2008-2009
▶ M. BASKETBALL,  from page 12
readers can contact
daniel sung     d2sung@ucsd.edu 
@UCSD_SportsFollow us on Twitter
PHOTO USED WITH PERMISSION FROM UCSD ATHLETICS10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , JANUARY 20, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
CLASSIFIEDS$
Guar dian Classi/f_ieds ar e FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifieds
crossword
ACROSS
1 Really silly6 Server’s tool11 Queasy, perhaps14 Where the 4077th MASH served15 Mammy’s boy16 Zero17 Dispel hostile feelings19 Bay Area airport letters20 Mildew evidence21 Sound quality?23 Shoe part26 RFK Stadium soccer team28 “Mame” Tony winner (1966)30 Ancient spell caster31 Drink that can follow a shot32 Oldest of the Fab Four34 Creative pursuit35 Streisand cross-dressing role40 Calif. site of the Latino Walk of Fame43 Screenwriter Ephron44 “Please tell me you’re not serious”48 Mentored ones49 Words of resignation50 It may be wireless51 It’s written on an env.52 Back away53 “The Lord of the Rings” region, and a 
hint to the shared feature of 17-, 28- and 44-Across and 26-Down
59 Nuevo __: Peru’s currency60 Causing chills61 Item on a cocktail toothpick62 Trough site63 Raid targets64 Play in the tub
DOWN
1 “Best in Show” org.2 Ballot figure3 Rage
4 Aquarium frolicker
5 More puzzling
6 Portrayer of an Oz feline7 Pulitzer winner Burrows8 Microscopic crime scene clue, briefly
9 Retiree’s abundance
10 Knightly news?
11 Latin for “where it originally was”12 Crane, at times13 Bentsen who said to Quayle, “Senator, 
you’re no Jack Kennedy”
18 Subject22 Fed. research agency23 Some PCs24 Scotch order25 Epic tale
26 Scarcities
27 Chess move you can only make once
29 Pure
33 Cashed in36 Hold spellbound37 Big Apple neighborhood near the 
Bowery
38 Drainpipe section
39 Not on schedule
41 More likely to explode42 “Dog the Bounty Hunter” airer
44 1950 classic 
sci-fi short story book
45 To twice the degree
46 Cousin from an “altogether ooky” 
family
47 Events with some very short rides48 Publicity
51 Malty mugfuls
54 “In My Bed” R&B group __ Hill55 Archaeologist’s project
56 Carnival resort
57 Some are HD
58 Snicker soundBIKES
TICINO “Fixie Style” (mens, unridden) - 
$425. Men’s Ticino three speed. Internal gears, bronze, stainless steel brake line. Large frame. Amazing bike with all the best Electra has to offer. Listing ID: 111462805 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
HAWAIIAN (girls, unridden 20”) - $150. I 
have an unridden girls 20” pink Hawaiian for sale.  Retails for $250. Listing ID: 111462804 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
26’’ Alloy Front Wheel White Industries 
Hub - $45. 26” alloy front wheel laced to White Industries hub. 32 holes. Missing some spokes with quick release. Listing ID: 111462803 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
FURNITURE
5 Piece Dresser Set - $400. I have an antique solid wood 5-piece bedroom set. Lovely design and hand carvings, shaped clawfoot legs, and intricate nobs. Set includes two bedside tables, one tall dresser, and a chest of drawers with attachable trifold mirror. Listing ID: 111415519 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more informationUnder the Surface - $5850. Handmade carved glass cocktail table. Outer edges of table base, water jet cut. Perimeter of the table top, pencil polished. Listing ID: 109926356 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Bunk Bed - $259. Brand new bunk bed twin 
over twin in cherry. Listing ID: 111802450 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
BOATS
2004 Sea Ray 260 Sundancer Boat for 
Sale - $44750. This 260 Sundancer has the sleek terrific looks and high-caliber perfor
-
mance you’d expect from a much larger, much more expensive cruiser. This owner is meticulous in her care, upgrades, and maintenance. They’ve added Sirius Satellite Radio, fresh water engine flush, and SeaDek decking to swim step. Listing ID: 111802522 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
1992 Silverton 37 SPORTFISHER 
CONVERTIBLE Boat for Sale - $54900. 
“ALLURE” is meticulously cared for sport
-
fishing yacht that has everything you need to power south for tuna, jaunt to the local islands, or just enjoy the yachting lifestyle on the bay. Her interior boasts a tropi
-
cal Tommy Bahama island motif through -
out and sleeps six comfortably. Listing ID: 111802521 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
t
your visio n,
our missio n.
outfitters@ucsd.eduCreate custom a pparel to 
promote your student 
organiza tion with Triton 
Outfitter's new Made TO Order program!
LECT URE
NOTES
IS HIR ING
NOTETAKERS
FOR WINTER ‘15
Pick up an application at
Lecture Notes in the
Student Center
Must have 3.0 or better
Application & SAMPLE NOTES
 are due Wed of finals week
as-lecture-n otes@ucsd.eduwww.ucsdguardian.org/advertising
.com/ucsdguardian
CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , JANUARY 20, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
BAD SUNS
PORTER’S PUB, STUDENT CENTERTHU1.22 • 8pmTahrirCAMPUS
CALENDAR
JAN 19 - JAN 252015 POWERED BY THE CHANCELLOR’S OFFICE AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guar dian
Calendar
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar @
ucsdgu ardian .orgTUE1.20 THU1.22 WED1.21
10am
FITSTOP HEALTH ASSESSMENT - THE ZONE
FITstop is a 20-minute free health assessment that measures 
your level of health and fitness compared to others in your age 
group. Workshops are free and space is limited. FitStop is 
hosted by the Student Health Advocates.
10am
FARMERS’ MARKET - TOWN SQUARE
Celebrating 10 years with local farmers and food vendors since 2004! The 
Farmers Market is held every Tuesday at 10a-2p between the Student Services Center and the Chancellor’s Complex
11am
BODY COMP ANALYSIS - STUDENT HEALTH SERVICES, RM 207
At this 15 minute appointment, students will receive a FREE computer generated analysis with the following information: 
body weight, body mass index (BMI), percentage body fat, 
calculated basal metabolic rate (BMR), fat mass, fat-free 
mass, and total body water. 
2pm
DE-STRESS POWER HOUR - THE ZONE
While you wait for the R&R Squad chair massage, check out Biofeedback with the CAPS Wellness Peer Educators as they measure how your body reacts under stress and teach you exercises to help improve your reaction to stress.
7pm
OUTREACH TRIVIA NIGHTS - HOME PLATE CAFE
FOOD, FACTS, FRIENDS & FUN! Come to Home Plate Cafe to meet new people and test your knowledge of various trivia categories! Free entry to all UCSD students, teams of 4 and prizes for the winning team.9am
WINTER ORG WONDERLAND - LIBRARY WALK
Kick off Winter Quarter and the 2015 year by attending the 
Winter Org Wonderland on Thursday, January 22, 2015 on 
Library Walk! The SILCs from One Stop are hosting Winter Org 
Wonderland, featuring representatives from 50 student 
organizations and performances by talented fellow students. You will also have the chance to get free Jersey Mike's subs!  This is another chance to meet members of some of UCSD's 500+ student orgs, sample great food, and enjoy music while getting your questions answered about getting involved. Similar to Fall 
Festival on the Green (FFOG), the Winter Org Fair will let you get 
the scoop on campus involvement opportunities.
1:30pm
THERAPY FLUFFIES - THE ZONE
Woof! Come relax and de-stress with fun-loving certified therapy dogs every week.
5pm
LATIN AMERICAN SOCIETY AND POLITICS - INTERNATIONAL 
CENTER AND POLITICS
Interested in spending 5 weeks in Buenos Aires, Argentina this 
summer? Come to our info session to learn more about program's courses and steps to apply!
8pm
BAD SUNS WITH SPECIAL GUESTS: COASTS AND MAUDLIN 
STRANGERS - PORTER’S PUB
Tickets on-sale! Box Office: $5.00 tickets (+ $1 processing fee) 
**Online Box Office: $5.00 ticket + $1 fee + $5 handling fee UCSD STUDENTS ONLY (must have valid UCSD I.D.)  Limit 2 tickets per person.
SAT1.24
8am
3RD ANNUAL SIBLINGS WEEKEND - STUDENTS SERVICES CENTER, 
MULTIPURPOSE ROOM
UC San Diego students and their siblings are invited to spend 
the day together to enjoy campus related events, experience UC San Diego, and have fun. 11am
ART AND SOUL: HAPPINESS NOTEBOOKS - THE ZONE
The Zone will provide paper materials and magazines for you to 
create your very own "Happiness Book". Assemble a collage 
with wellness goals, inspirational quotes, and things that make 
you happy.  Workshops are free; all supplies and materials are 
provided. Space is limited and first come, first served!
1pm
RESIDENCE AND SCHOLARSHIP WORKSHOP - OLD STUDENT 
CENTER, HUERTA-VERA CRUZ ROOM
Do you have questions about how to apply and change your 
residency status for tuition purposes at UCSD? Want to learn 
about scholarships for non-resident students? Come to the 
Residency & Scholarship Workshop with the UCSD Residency 
Deputy & Financial Aid Advisors to learn about how to qualify to change your residency status. Free food!
3pm
SUCCESS STRATEGIES IN ENGINEERING AND BEYOND- JACOBS 
HALL, HENRY BOOKER RM 2512
Danee Kenyon earned her degree at UCSD and along the way 
learned the importance of finding balance in her work, school and social life. She will discuss the strategies and experiences that helped her to succeed not only as a student, but as a person. She will share insights regarding the value of maintaining outside interests and activities in addition to school work, and how a diverse set of skills can help foster new 
connections.
7pm
FASHION QUARTERLY LAUNCH PARTY - THE LOFT
Come celebrate with Fashion Quarterly (FQ) for the release of 
our fall/winter 2015 issue! What's in it for you: Free appetizers from Zanzibar at the Loft, Live music from last year's Sun God battle of the bands winner - EMAEL. Raffle prizes including $25 gift cards to The Cottage La Jolla - Copies of our new issue! 
SUN1.25
1pm
HEALTH AND BEAUTY FUNDRAISER - PC WEST, RED SHOE 
ROOM
Reach your new Years resolution goals with the help of 
exclusive brand name products. Features: Free health and skin assessments Skincare Tips and Demos By Certified Skin Analyst Certified Organic Nutrition Products Valentine's Day gift Ideas!!! Energy that will get you through the quarter successfully Quality personal use set Raffle!FRI1.23
3pm
ASCE PRESENTS: BEAR GARDEN - MATTHEWS QUAD
The bears are back this winter and they have put a spin on Winnie the Pooh & Friends! Come celebrate with us and our furry friends as we start the new quarter. As always, we will have FREE food, drinks, games, music, prizes, and bears! Make sure to come by and take a picture with our Pooh Bear! 
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
BRANDON  YU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , JANUARY 20, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
MEN'S  BASKETBALL
Win Streak at Five
UCSD beats CSULA, CSUDH to extend win streak and move into tie for second in CCAA standings. 
BY DANIEL SUNG SENIOR STAFF WRITER // PHOTO BY ALWIN SZETO
With the winter season now in full swing, the UCSD men’s basketball team 
(7–3) finally appears to have shaken off its woes of inconsistency. The 
Tritons extended their win streak to five games this past Friday and Sat -
urday, defeating Cal State Los Angeles 67–56 and Cal State Dominguez Hills 70–50, 
both on the road. UCSD is now on the longest win streak since the 2008–09 season. 
“ Any road win in this league is a good win, ” UCSD head coach Eric Olen told 
the UCSD Athletics Department. 
The Tritons’ road win against Los Angeles (5–5) could be largely attributed to 
the discrepancy between the two teams’ free-throw shooting. Cal State Los Angeles 
could not seem to find its stroke from the charity stripe, making just eight out of 22 
free throws, good for only 36 percent from the line. The Tritons, on the other hand, 
converted on 16–23 from the line.
Furthermore, the Tritons were stroking it from the deep as well, converting 
on 45 percent of their three-pointers, five of which came from junior guard Aleks 
Lipovic, who scored a game-high 15 points and also corralled four rebounds. 
With the teams going back and forth early on, the score was tight in the first 
half. The Tritons went into the locker room with a slim 24–20 lead.
In the second half, Los Angeles’ missed free throws began to take a toll on their 
team, as the Golden Eagles could not string points together for any offensive mo -
mentum and committed six turnovers in the final six minutes of the game. 
With the Eagles struggling, everything seemed to go the Tritons’ way offensively. 
In what seemed like a broken play and turnover, junior forward Drew Dyer cor -
ralled the loose ball and was able to find freshman guard George Buaku off a spin 
for the wide-open three to increase the lead to nine. 
A late free-throw from sophomore forward Adam Klie gave the Tritons the larg -
est lead of the night at 15 and ultimately sealed the win. 
Klie finished with 13 points and a game-high six rebounds, while junior guard 
Hunter Walker scored 11 and dished out a team-high four assists. 
The Tritons continued to ride on their momentum the following night, defeating 
Cal State Dominguez Hills (0–10) and keeping them winless in a 70–50 decision. 
Unlike the previous night, UCSD came out of the gates firing on all cylinders, 
taking a 10-point lead halfway through the first half and holding a 12-point advan -
tage going into intermission.
The team improved its deep ball shooting from the night before, hitting an 
impressive 13–27 from the three-point line. For the second straight night, Lipovic 
drained five from beyond the arc and finished the night with 15 points and four 
rebounds. 
Despite a brief effort to get back in the game, the Toros simply could not keep 
up with the Tritons in the second frame. 
“I thought we played with a lot of energy and toughness for the second game 
this week, ” Olen said. “We completed defensively and had great balance and ball 
WOMEN'S  BASKETBALL
Triton Women Split League Road Games
UCSD falls in final seconds at CSULA, bounce back in crucial win over CSUDH. 
Cal State Los Angeles (5–5) broke 
UCSD’s five-game winning streak in 
a 65–63 win in the California Col -
legiate Athletic Association road 
play on Friday, Jan. 16. However, 
the Tritons returned to their win -
ning ways in their 60–55 victory 
over host Cal State Dominguez Hills 
(8–2) the following day. With this 
weekend’s results, UCSD improves 
to 7–3 in conference and 9–6 overall. 
Junior forward Farrah Shokoor 
and senior center Dana Webster com -
bined for the team’s first nine points 
to give UCSD an early 9–6 advan -
tage on Friday night. CSULA, on the 
base of a spectacular shooting per -
formance in the first half — going 64 
percent (9–14) from three-point range 
— answered back with a 13–0 run to 
take a 19–9 lead. However, UCSD 
responded quickly, tying the game 
up at 26–26 after a Webster lay-up. 
The back-and-forth first half 
concluded with a slight Golden 
Eagles’ advantage, as the Tritons en -
tered intermission trailing 35–31. 
After halftime, UCSD came back 
strong with a 9–3 run to reclaim a 
40–38 edge. The two teams traded 
leads early on until CSULA ultimately 
gained a permanent advantage. The 
Tritons were never far, though, and 
pulled within two points after a pair of layups from Shokoor and Webster 
brought the score to 65–63. However, 
with four seconds left on the clock, 
Shokoor could not sink the game-tying 
layup as the Tritons fell to the Golden 
Eagles by the bitterly narrow margin.
“CSULA is a very good team and 
I think maybe we weren’t as sharp as 
we needed to be, especially defending 
their three-point shooters, ” UCSD 
head coach Heidi VanDerveer told 
the UCSD Guardian. “Obviously, we 
did a good job trying to come back 
but in the end, it wasn’t enough. ” 
Webster had her third double-
double of the season, with career 
bests of 20 points and a whop -
ping 16 rebounds. Shokoor also 
had a double-double of her own 
with 11 points and 16 rebounds.
On Saturday, UCSD came out 
with a higher level of intensity and grinded out Cal State Dominguez 
Hills 60–55. The Tritons established 
a 19–9 lead halfway through the first 
frame after a Shokoor and-one play 
capped off a 13–3 run. The Toros 
answered to cut the lead to five, but 
another strong 8–2 run gave UCSD 
a 32–23 edge entering the half. 
After the intermission, the Toros 
slowly cut the Triton lead to make 
it a three-point game at 41–38 af -
ter a Tayler Champion basket with 
10:26 left in the game. As the Tritons 
looked to pull away, the Toros contin -
ued to battle and eventually cut their 
deficit to one at a 56–55 score with 
just 54 seconds left in play. However, 
UCSD stood up on defense, shutting 
Dominguez Hills out in the final 
seconds to secure the 60–55 victory.B Y  marcus  thuillier  
editorial assistant
Senior day was successful for 
the UCSD swimming and diving 
teams this past Saturday, as both 
the No. 7 Triton men and the No. 4 
women defeated visiting California 
Baptist University at the Canyon -
view Aquatics Center. The women 
won by a decisive 167–133 score 
and are now 8–3 on the season, 
while the men took a 180–120 vic -
tory and improved to 6–3 overall. 
“It was a great meet for us, ” UCSD 
men’s head coach Daniel Perdew told 
the UCSD Athletics Department. “It 
was an awesome result. Obviously a 
win is nice, but they brought it from 
the first event. The energy was here. ” 
Facing off against the No. 16 
Lancers (2–2), the Triton men 
took nine out of 16 events to se -
cure their win. The biggest high -
lights of the day came appropri -
ately via senior co-captain Jack 
Galvan, who raced in his final 
home meet in memorable fashion. 
Galvan took the top spot in 
both the 50-freestyle and 100-
free with finishing times of 20.98 
seconds — a season best — and 
45.81 seconds, respectively. He 
also anchored a first-place 200-
free relay (1:24.04) effort and led 
a spectacular comeback victory in the 400-medley relay (3:24.09) to 
earn yet another first-spot finish. 
 “Jack has been getting 
faster and faster with each dual 
meet we’ve had, ” Perdew said. “It’s 
great to see him get under that 
21-[second] and 46-[second] bar -
rier in dual meets. It’s something 
that I don’t know that we’ve ever 
had on the men’s sprint side. ” 
The rest of UCSD’s men’s squad 
held their own, with Tritons sweep -
ing the podium in the 100-fly, the 
100-backstroke and the 500-free. 
First-place finishers were senior Sean 
Malley in the 100-fly (50.94), sopho -
more Julian Jacobs in the 100-back -
stroke (51.39) and junior co-captain 
Paul Li in the 500-free (4:41.27). 
As for the longest distance, 
UCSD’s junior Kyle Nadler was 
the first to touch the wall in the 
1000-free with a time of 9:41.08.
On the women’s side, the Tri -
tons also took nine out of 16 events 
against the No. 7 Lancer coun -
terparts (2–2). Junior co-captain 
Colleen Daley was the top fin -
isher in the sprints, winning first 
in the 50-free (24.01 seconds) 
and the 100-free (52.50 seconds). 
Freshman Stephanie Sin con -
tinues to impress in spite of her 
age, sweeping the long distances 
with times of 5:03.83 in the 500-
See  SWIM/DIVE , page 9Men, Women Sweep CBU 
Swim and Dive record strong results on senior day. SWIM/DIVE
b y  brandon  yu
sports editor
See  W. BASKETBALL , page 9PHOTO USED WITH PERMISSION FROM UCSD ATHLETICSSee  MEN’S BASKETBALL , page 9W. Tennis
M. Volleyball
M. Basketball
W. Basketball
M. Tennis     1/21      
     1/22
     1/23
     1/23
     1/24AT Cal State Fullerton
VS USC
VS Cal State San Bernardino
VS Cal State San Bernardino
VS San Diego ChristianUPCOMING
UCSD
GAMES