VOLUME 48, ISSUE 38  THURSDAY , MARCH 5, 2015 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
TRAVEL GUIDE 
2015
TOO MUCH SPARE TIME 
THIS SPRING BREAK? UCSD 
GUARDIAN STAFF WRITERS 
SHARE THEIR ADVENTURES AND 
OFFER ADVICE ON THE BEST 
PLACES TO VISIT IN THE U.S. 
AND ALL OVER THE WORLD.
NET  NEUTRALITY
STOCKTON  SHOWDOWNWha t  it  is  and  why  we  need  it
 basketball  begins  pla yoffsopinion,  P age   4
sports,  P age  12
THURSDAY
H 71 L 48FRIDAY
H 75 L 48
SATURDAY
H 76 L 51SUNDAY
H 73 L 53
FORECAST
VERBATIM
THE FACT OF THE MATTER IS 
THAT USING U.S. FOREIGN AID 
TO ASSIST COUNTRIES ABROAD 
IS ACTUALY A GREAT IDEA. 
HOWEVER, LIKE ALL GREAT 
IDEAS, EUROPE CAME UP WITH 
IT FIRST.”
 Marcus Thuillier & Ayat Amin
ACROSS THE GLOBE
OPINION , PAGE 4 
INSIDE
RECORD POT BUST  ......... 2
EDITORIALS  .................... 4
A&E REVIEWS  ................. 9
SUDOKU  ....................... 10
BASEBALL  .................... 11“LIFESTYLE,  P AGE  6
PHOTO COURTESY OF  MASSIMO CATARINELLASTUDENT LIFE
A.S. Council and GSA Pass 
Che Cafe Resolution
A.S. Council and the Graduate Student 
Association passed a joint resolution on 
Feb. 18 that called for the C.H.E Cafe 
Collective to refrain from operating at its facility 
until Spring 2016 and created a C.H.E. Collective 
Campus Reintegration Committee to assist the Che 
in becoming a more student-centered organization. 
The resolution, entitled “The A.S./Graduate 
Student Association Building a Stronger Student-
Centered C.H.E. Collective, ” allows the collective to 
use the C.H.E. Cafe courtyard for small events until 
the end of the reintegration period. Additionally, 
the resolution requires that A.S. Council, GSA and 
University Center Advisory Board be consulted 
before making any modifications to the C.H.E. 
Cafe facility.
Finally, it requests that University Centers and 
the UCSD administration seek input from A.S. 
Council with regard to potentially allowing the 
C.H.E. Collective to operate at the original facil -
ity, “provided that: 1) Financial stability and sus -tainability has been achieved; 2) Student involve -
ment has improved; (3) Funding has been secured 
to repair and renovate the C.H.E. Cafe and 4) 
Renovations and repairs have been completed. ” 
A.S. Council President Robby Boparai told the 
UCSD Guardian that safety concerns would have to 
be addressed in order for the C.H.E Collective to be 
able to utilize the C.H.E. Cafe facility.
“In the future, if … the [C.H.E.] still [is] calling 
for the facility and the majority of students on this 
campus believe it is something that’s necessary, then 
A.S. [Council] would probably support the C.H.E. 
Collective in being reintegrated into that facility, ” 
Boparai said. “But that would have to be after the 
safety concerns for the facility are met. ”
The UCSD administration has expressed initial 
support for the resolution as well.
However, C.H.E. Cafe Collective Core member 
Mauro Chavez told the Guardian that, although 
he feels positively about reintegration, passing the 
resolution does not ensure the C.H.E. will be able   B y tina  butoiu    News EditorBorder Patrol
Seizes Record 
Shipment of  
MarijuanaSAN DIEGO
Authorities confiscated 
32,000 pounds of narcotics 
at Otay Mesa Port last week, 
marking the second-largest 
bust in U.S. border history.
B Y  Jacky  to
staff writer 
U.S. Customs and Border Protection 
officers seized approximately 32,000 
pounds of marijuana at the Otay 
Mesa cargo port on Feb 26. This is 
the largest narcotics seizure to have 
ever taken place at the port and 
the second largest ever at any U.S. 
border crossing. 
CBP Director of Field Operations 
Pete Flores told the UCSD Guardian 
that this seizure is significant 
because it enables the CBP to 
achieve a number of goals.
“This drug seizure at our port 
not only keeps these drugs out of 
our communities, thereby helping 
make them safer, ” Flores said. “But 
it also denies the transnational 
criminal organizations the profits 
they were hoping to derive from 
their eventual sale. ”
The seizure took place at 
approximately 6 p.m. on Thursday 
when a driver crossing the border 
claimed to be transporting a 
cargo shipment of mattresses                       
and cushions. 
After conducting an x-ray 
examination on the truck, CBP 
officers identified an “anomaly” 
and decided to further examine 
the vehicle.
When the officers opened the 
trailer doors, they discovered 
that it was full of plastic-wrapped 
packages stacked to the ceiling 
with a few mattresses stacked 
against the walls. 
They found a total of 1,296 
packages that carried a total of 
approximately 31,598 pounds, 
which the CBP estimated 
has a street value of close to                                        
$18.96 million. 
The driver was a 46-year-old 
male Mexican citizen who owned a 
valid border-crossing card. 
The San Diego Union-Tribune 
reported that, according to a federal 
charging complaint, the driver told 
authorities he was offered $50,000 
to smuggle the marijuana from 
Tijuana to Burbank. California. 
After the incident, CBP officers 
cancelled his card and turned him 
over to the U.S. Immigration and 
Customs Enforcement.
Flores told the Guardian that 
he thinks the CBP officers at 
the border deserve the credit for             
the seizure.
“Our officers did a great job 
stopping this massive amount of 
marijuana at the border, ” Flores 
said. “These extraordinary 
accomplishments are the direct 
results of the professional men 
and women in uniform honorably See CHE , page 3
UCSD held a celebration in front of Geisel Library to honor what would have been Dr. Seuss’ 111th birthday this past Monday. 
The event also opened the “Hats Off to Dr.Seuss” exhibit, open through March 22. Photo by Jesus Pacheco / UCSD Guardian.
CAMPUS
Researchers from the UC 
Berkeley School of Law’s Policy 
Advocacy Clinic released a new 
report on the growing enactment 
and enforcement of California’s 
vagrancy laws on Feb. 12 at a legal 
clinic at UC Berkeley. 
The Western Regional Advocacy 
Project commissioned a network 
of homeless advocacy groups to 
study the municipal codes of 58 
California cities. Among the major 
cities studied were San Francisco, 
Sacramento and San Diego. 
The study determined that, 
in recent decades, the state 
has increasingly criminalized 
homelessness even beyond what is occurring in other parts of the 
nation.
According to the study, 22 
percent of homeless people live in 
California. Meanwhile, the sample 
of California cities has enacted 59 
percent of the nation’s anti-homeless 
laws since 1990. 
Co-author and graduate student 
at the Goldman School of Public 
Policy at UC Berkeley Marina Fisher 
stated that it is the hope of the 
researchers that data collected for 
the report will make it a unique 
asset for policy makers.
“Our hope is to have shed light 
on the issue, ” Fisher told the UCSD 
Guardian. “There have been a lot of 
anecdotal reports, but there hasn’t 
been a lot of quantitative data. Part 
of the problem has been in figuring 
out how big the problem is. Data is hard to find, but we hope this report 
can be a launching point to create 
solutions to the problem. ”
The report’s authors based much 
of their research on categories 
of anti-homeless law previously 
defined by the National Law Center 
on Homelessness and Poverty. 
Within these categories are daytime 
activities of the homeless, such 
as standing, sitting and resting 
in public places, and nighttime 
activities, such as sleeping, camping 
and lodging in public places. Laws 
against panhandling, begging and 
sharing food with the homeless have 
also been cited. 
In San Diego, anti-lodging state 
codes, such as California Penal 
Code 647(e), have been used to 
target the homeless. In 2004, over Study: Cities Show Bias Against Homelessness 
A recent UC Berkeley report found unfair execution of several California municipal codes.California
B Y   BR YNNA  BOL T
staff writer
See  STUDY , page 2 See MARIJUANA , page 3The resolution requests that the collective vacate the facility and reintegrate into campus.1,000 people were arrested under 
this provision. Municipal codes, 
such as trolley fare evasion and 
public intoxication, have also been 
demonstrated to be commonly used 
to issue citations to the homeless. 
The study shows enforcement 
of these vagrancy laws to 
disproportionately affect the 
homeless in a fashion reminiscent of 
previous methods meant to regulate and control other marginalized 
groups. 
Co-author and student at UC 
Berkeley School of Law Nathaniel 
Miller compared the current anti-
homeless laws to previous anti-Okie 
laws passed after the migration of 
200,000 people from the Great Plains 
to California to find work in the 
1930s.
“No matter what the perceived 
undesirable population is, and it has 
varied throughout time, there is this theme of an ‘out of sight, out of mind’ 
mentality, ” Miller told the Guardian. 
“This is the same with homelessness. ”
The authors of the report 
take the stance that the increased 
criminalization of homelessness 
is an ineffective and expensive 
solution to the growing prevalence of 
homelessness. While the report does 
not offer specific solutions, it does 
call for more effective, economical 
and humane methods. 
The clinic’s client, WRAP , has recently experienced success in 
promoting such a solution with the 
presentation of a new bill, known as 
the Right to Rest Act.
“The first step has been achieved in 
that our client’s bill has been authored 
in the California State Legislature, ” 
Miller said. “We really want people to 
talk and realize this is an issue. ”2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MARCH 5, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG N EWS
AVERAGE CAT By Christina Carlson
#OMG 
#LIKE US
#FOLLOW US
@ucsdguar dian
Live without regrets, 
                      Learn without borders.
Discover where you’ll study abroad at usac.unr.edu
studyabroadusac@
USAC
DO Y OU TWEET? WE DO!
@UCSDGuar dian
@UCSDGuardianFOLLOW
US NOW!
...yes, now!
@UCSDGuardian#OMG! Follow us on Twitter #NOW! Researchers Observe Theme of  “Out of  Sight, Out of  Mind” Mentality with Vagrancy
▶ STUDY ,  from page 1
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and 
Thursdays during the academic year by UCSD students 
and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this 
newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, 
without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2014, all 
rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible 
for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The 
views expressed herein do not necessarily represent 
the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of 
California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian 
is funded by advertising. At least I’m married.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.orgBusiness Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Aleksandra Konstantinovic
Andrew E. Huang  
Taylor Sanderson
Tina Butoiu
Kriti Sarin
Charu Mehra
Cassia Pollock
Brandon Yu
John Story
Teiko Yakobson
Jacqueline Kim
Kyle Somers
Nilu Karimi
Siddharth Atre
Jonathan Gao
Joselynn Ordaz
Sherman Aline
Elyse Yang
Annie Liu
Rosina Garcia
Laura Chow
Vincent PhamEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
  
Associate News Editor
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Social Media Coordinator
Training and Development
Page Layout
Charu Mehra
Distribution
Christopher Graves, Josef Goodyear
Copy Readers
Andrew Chao, Caroline Lee, Micaela Stone
Editorial Assistants
Shelby Newallis, Jennifer Grundman,  
Karly Nisson, Mario Attie, Marcus ThuillierBr ynna  bol t   bbolt@ucsd.edu readers can contact
Rosa Hernandez also 
expressed her satisfaction with the                           
officers’ performances. 
“I am extremely proud of the work 
my officers do, ” Hernandez said in a Feb. 27 press release. “Officers never 
give up their enforcement posture 
and demonstrate each and every 
day that they remain guardians of 
our nation. ”
The largest seizure to take place 
at the Otay Mesa cargo port of entry before this happened when 
CBP officers seized 19,999 pounds 
of marijuana in 2003. 
In 2013, CBP officers 
accomplished the largest seizure at 
any U.S. port of entry at the Calexico 
East port of entry, a cargo containing 35,265 pounds of marijuana. 
Both of the largest confiscations 
of marijuana occurred in California.Recent Otay Mesa Bust Broke Previous Record by 12,000 Pounds, Surpassing Calexico
▶ MARIJUANA,  from page 1
Jacky to   j6to@ucsd.edu readers can contact
FIND US ON FACEBOOK
FACEBOOK.COM/UCSDGUARDIANto return to the facility.
“There’s this issue that, if we prove 
we can function outside of the space, 
the conversation could quickly turn to: 
‘Y ou proved you don’t need the space 
if you’re still thriving, ’” Chavez said. 
“ And, also, if we fail to meet the met -
rics, then there’s a chance that they can 
say you’re not deserving of this space 
or these repairs. ”
Regarding the safety concerns, 
Chavez questioned if maintenance 
really was the actual reason that the 
C.H.E. Collective is being required to 
vacate the facility.
“The C.H.E. Cafe has been in the 
same structural condition for at least 
the last five years now, and it wasn’t 
until this year that the university cared 
about it, ” Chavez said. “While this 
seems like a one-sided safety concern 
… there are a lot of different elements 
of the collective that I think members 
of the administration aren’t exactly 
comfortable with, and I think that’s 
mainly just a failure to recognize the 
culture of the C.H.E. and how it func -
tions as a venue. ”
The latter portion of the resolu -
tion established a C.H.E. Collective 
Campus Integration Committee com -
posed of graduate students, under -
graduate students and members of the 
collective. 
GSA President Jonathan Monk said 
the purpose of the committee is to help 
the Che become more student- and 
campus-oriented.
“I’ve talked to a lot of C.H.E 
Collective supporters that are excit -
ed and are happy that they’re getting 
some help kind of reintegrating into 
campus, ” Monk said. “The challenge I have is that I think there’s a differ -
ence between the C.H.E. Collective 
supporters and then some of the com -
munity members who maybe have 
different opinions or are frustrated by 
the outcome. ”
The C.H.E. Cafe Collective released 
a statement on Feb. 25 explaining that 
it does not support the resolution.
“The C.H.E. Cafe Collective is 
opposed to any solution that includes 
the Collective leaving the C.H.E. Cafe 
Building, ” the statement read. “To leave 
the building would be tantamount to 
forfeiting the property. The UC San 
Diego administration has a history of 
refusing to allow organizations, such as 
the Craft Center, to reclaim buildings 
after they have left. ”
To remain eligible for reintegration, 
the C.H.E. Cafe will be required to 
hold a total of four events per quarter: 
one large event, defined as having 20 
or more registered UCSD students in 
attendance — and at least 20 percent 
of attendees must be UCSD students. 
Three small events are also required 
and are defined as having at least 10 
UCSD students in attendance, the 
majority of which must be UCSD stu -
dents. 
According to Chavez, the C.H.E. 
Cafe Collective had already begun 
a reintegration process prior to the 
resolution’s passage, and continuing 
onward would be more difficult given 
the new parameters outlined by the 
resolution, especially when trying to 
garner internal support from collective 
members.
The resolution mentions the 2012 
UCEN Student Usage and Priority 
Survey, where the C.H.E. Cafe was 
rated as a “low to very low priority” 
by 80 percent of graduate students and 78 percent of undergraduates, 
out of a randomized sample of 8,000 
respondents in a ratio proportionate to 
enrollment.
Boparai said that, alongside UCAB 
data, A.S. Council receives feedback 
through its various senators and 
offices, along with public input during 
council meetings. 
A.S. Council voted to develop an 
ad-hoc committee to produce a report 
and recommendations for the coun -
cil to consider regarding the C.H.E 
Collective and building’s future. 
The GSA also established a similar 
committee to produce a report that 
outlined the timeline of events con -
cerning the C.H.E. facility from 2006 
until 2014. According to Boparai, the 
GSA ’s document was then endorsed 
by A.S. Council and changed to meet 
the terms of undergraduate students 
instead of graduate students. Their 
work culminated into the resolution 
passed on Feb. 18.
Executive Director of University 
Communications and Public Affairs 
Jeff Gattas said the university supports 
the C.H.E. Cafe Collective’s reintegra -
tion.
“The university supports the posi -
tion of the AS and GSA council reso -
lutions.  The university will continue 
to work with the student governments, 
the University Centers Advisory Board 
and the Che [sic] Collective, ” Gattas 
said.  “It is our hope that the Che 
Collective, in alignment with recent 
A.S. [Council] and GSA recommenda -
tions, re-integrates with the campus 
community and takes advantage of the 
opportunities being offered to the [it]. ”N EWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MARCH 5, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
        
Looking for the 
New Business 
Column?
Now posted every Wednesday 
night, after the A.S. Council 
meeting, online.
ucsdguardian.orgC.H.E. Collective May Return to Space if  Students Pass Referendum
▶ CHE,  from page 1
Tina  butoiu   cbutoiu@ucsd.edu readers can contact
ucsdguardian.orgCHECK OUT OUR WEBSITE ONLINE4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MARCH 5, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CHARU MEHRA
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
ILLUSTRATION BY ANNIE LIUForeign aid as defense. We 
know it sounds crazy, but 
think about it. Not too long 
ago, President Obama did. He 
even wrote an essay for “Foreign 
Affairs” about it, titled “Renewing 
American Leadership. ” In his piece, 
Obama states that, “since extremely 
poor societies and weak states pro -
vide optimal breeding grounds for 
disease, terrorism and conflict, the 
United States has a direct national 
security interest in dramatically 
reducing global poverty and join -
ing with our allies in sharing more 
of our riches to help those most in 
need. ” Basically, Obama is asking 
for the U.S. to spend more on for -
eign aid, in lieu of a larger national 
defense budget. 
When you think about it, the 
argument makes sense. Extremist 
threats to national security are 
bred in volatile areas: areas with 
high disease rates and low educa -
tion rates, which commonly result 
in poorer economies overall. Plus, 
studies have shown that investing 
in impoverished areas for basic 
human needs, such as health and 
education, makes a big difference 
to economies. The argument here 
is also logical. People work more 
hours when they are healthy and 
they get better-paying jobs when 
they are educated. Improving infra -
structures in those countries would 
fight extremist threats before they 
even arise. 
The fact of the matter is that 
using U.S. foreign aid to assist 
countries abroad is actually a 
great idea. However, like all great 
ideas, Europe came up with it first. 
Currently, the European Union as 
a whole gives the most foreign aid 
in the world. Just take a look at 
the percentages from the United 
Kingdom, which in 2014 spent 70 
percent of its total gross national 
income on foreign aid. This is com -
ing from the nation that colonized 
nearly half the world less than 100 
years earlier. Talk about a change 
of policy. 
 However, when we compare 
these numbers to the U.S., our 
numbers are embarrassingly low. 
Less than 1 percent  of the U.S. 
Federal Budget goes to foreign 
aid, according to NPR. Compare 
this to the over 20 percent spent 
on U.S. military and defense in 
2011, and we see a big difference. 
This is especially significant when 
you consider that 56 percent  of 
Americans think that the U.S. is 
spending too much on foreign aid. 
However, the average American 
also thinks that the U.S. spends 
around 28 percent of the budget 
on foreign aid — a dramatically 
inflated opinion.  
The U.S. spends so much on 
defense and military that it ends up 
looking like damage control. Just 
like the United Kingdom did, the 
U.S. should consider foreign aid to 
be a substantial part of its foreign 
policy and increase spending for it. 
As the most powerful country in 
the world, the U.S. has the ability 
to help improve living conditions 
in many impoverished areas, and 
it needs to start doing that instead 
of sending a military presence to 
whatever region represents a threat.   You may not have noticed, but you 
almost lost your right to a free and 
open internet last week. Siding with 
consumers and small businesses, the Federal 
Communications Commission made a major 
decision toward preserving net neutrality on 
Feb. 26. It was an uphill battle fought against 
major internet service providers, and despite 
the odds, average consumers won their right to 
continue using the internet the way they have 
been doing so since its inception.
Many people don’t understand much about 
net neutrality, and if you do, feel free to skip 
the next two or three paragraphs. For those of 
you who are a little behind on U.S. technology 
policy, net neutrality is the idea that internet 
service providers like Comcast don’t get to 
make decisions about which websites work 
faster. In other words, Google gets sent to your 
computer just as fast as Reddit or Netflix or any 
other website. They’re all equal. And that’s net 
neutrality, the way it has always been.But last year, the Supreme Court ruled that 
net neutrality was unconstitutional, and the 
FCC had the decision to either keep it or throw 
it out. Internet service providers like Comcast 
wanted it thrown out so that way they could 
charge websites extra to get to consumers faster. 
Even worse, they could charge consumers extra 
to get certain websites at a reasonable speed. 
What that could look like is you needing to pay 
an extra $10 per month to not have your Netflix 
streaming speed choked, or Average Joe’s startup 
website being unable to afford paying for a 
fast speed, making his new internet businesses 
harder to start. It could even mean that ISPs 
could block out any website they wanted to or 
charge you to use certain websites, similar to the 
way they currently charge for certain channels 
in a cable package. Obviously this would be 
terrible for the consumer and for a free market, 
but absolutely fantastic for a few colossal 
service-provider companies, especially since 
they have virtually no competition.
See NET,  page 5U.S. Must 
Increase
Foreign Aid
Spending A Net Gain
The Editorial Board explores recent policy changes regarding net neutrality 
and what they mean for the general public. EDITORIALS
Aleksandra Konstantinovic
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Andrew E. Huang
MANAGING EDITOR
Taylor Sanderson
MANAGING EDITOR  
Charu Mehra
OPINION EDITOR
Cassia Pollock
ASSOCIATE OPINION EDITOR
Tina Butoiu
NEWS EDITOR
Marcus Thuillier
SPORTS EDITORIAL ASSISTANT
Kyle Somers
ASSOCIATE A&E EDITOR
The UCSD Guardian is published twice weekly at the 
University of California at San Diego. Contents © 2014. 
Views expressed herein represent the majority vote of the edi -
torial board and are not necessarily those of the UC Board of 
Regents, the ASUCSD or the members of the Guardian staff. EDITORIAL  BOARD
Marcus thuillier//
A y a t amin 
opinion@ucsdguardian.orgAcross the globe
A.S. Council and the Graduate Student 
Association recently passed a joint resolution 
calling on the Che Cafe to vacate its historic 
location, while also creating a committee to 
help the Collective become a more prominent 
part of campus. While it is great that the Che is 
collaborating with A.S. Council and the GSA, 
it important to recognize that the Collective’s 
identity is intertwined with the physical Che 
Cafe building itself. The Che Collective his -
torically has been independent from univer -
sity requirements because of its very nature. 
Although CHE stands for Cheap Healthy 
Eats, the building itself was named after Che 
Guevara, the Marxist revolutionary. The col -
lective is not necessarily communist but the 
facility and organization represent a spirit of 
defiance to institutionalization in general. By 
removing the Che from the Cafe, the univer -
sity is  extracting what could be considered an 
uncomfortable part of history.
The resolution lists student safety as one 
of the primary reasons for the Che no longer 
being able to hold events in the facility. Last 
year, the University Centers Advisory Board 
took the Che facility repairs out of its budget 
on the basis that the costs were too high and 
student interest in the facility too low. While the resolution does recognize that maintenance 
on the space was deferred for a long period of 
time, both sides disputed the exact costs and 
which repairs were necessary.  
 Although the building may be technically 
safe in some ways, it does not mean that there 
isn’t the potential for students to be injured, 
since accidents can and do happen regard -
less of building codes. Furthermore, the Che 
Renovation Feasibility Report from the uni -
versity states: “We do not see how this facility 
could be cost-effectively renovated to meet 
building codes and the university’s standards. 
The best use of this site then appears to be to 
raise [sic] the facility and build new from the 
ground up. ” Whether or not this is true, the 
report illustrates a fiscal incentive the univer -
sity could have in preventing the Che from 
returning to the original space. Also, a UCAB 
survey is denoted as the basis for the argu -
ment that students do not care about the Che 
and therefore the repairs to Che are not worth    
the costs.
The Che Collective and UCSD have had 
numerous altercations over the years and the 
situation has only escalated in the past decade. 
The Che prides itself in being an underground 
organization and the university has a hard time coping with that. The Che’s identity is nothing 
like other student organizations — it has never 
been in the Collective’s nature to appeal to big 
audiences, and that is exactly what the univer -
sity wants them to do. With its tastes in music 
and its political orientation, the Che Collective 
has always been an easy target for the univer -
sity, and this resolution is killing off the core 
identity of the Che. 
 While it is important for the Che to remain 
a student organization and have an active voice 
on campus, its original, counter-hegemonic fla -
vor will undoubtedly be altered by the loss of 
its historic autonomy. Nonetheless, the collabo -
ration between A.S. Council, GSA and the Che 
Cafe Collective ensures that the Che can at 
least continue to exist. Furthermore, if the Che 
achieves the metrics outlined in the resolution, 
it may be able to return to its original facility, 
provided safety repairs are made. The resolu -
tion, however, is only a recommendation and 
it is ultimately  up to the university to decide 
what will happen to the facility itself. The 
question now is: Will the university continue 
its ongoing “fight” with the Che and take away 
its independence entirely, or will it be more 
lenient and allow it to become an active part of 
the student body like it was in the past?Che Cafe’s Future Depends on Growing Its DemographicOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MARCH 5, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
The mission of the Triton Food 
Pantry is to provide a discreet service to UCSD students in need of food. Our goals are to ensure that every student has enough energy to get through the day and that no student needs to give up a single meal for any reason. We aim to build a network of resources and awareness about food insecurity.
Winter Quarter 
Hours of Operation:
M: 11:00a - 2:00p
Tu: 4:00p - 7:00pW: 2:00p - 6:00pTh: 9:30a - 1:30p F: 1:30p - 6:00p It turned into a battle for the 
soul of the internet, and at the 
center of it, the FCC needed to 
decide to either keep net neutrality 
or to do away with it. It didn’t help 
that Tom Wheeler, the Chairman of 
the FCC and one of its five voting 
members, used to be the CEO of a 
telecommunications lobby, a blatant 
conflict of interest. Although 
Wheeler was initially against net 
neutrality, he ended up siding with 
consumers in a 3–2 vote to make 
the internet a telecommunications 
service, assuring net neutrality for 
all Americans.
Since policy seems to often 
favor large corporations over people, many cynics might be 
wondering how exactly consumers 
weren’t screwed over this time. The 
optimistic answer is that a lot of 
people, especially those from tech-
savvy communities like Reddit, 
wrote to the FCC, with a staggering 
total of four million consumers 
formally recommending that the 
FCC vote in favor of net neutrality. 
It would be nice to think that due 
to the overwhelming public support 
for a free and open internet, the 
FCC listened.
A more cynical answer is that 
the FCC was probably swayed just 
as much — if not more — by a 
few giant corporations in favor of 
net neutrality, namely Netflix and 
Google. In fact, some of the last-minute revisions to the net neutrality 
bill were made specifically because 
Google asked for them. Google 
has weighed in heavily on the issue 
since September, and that could 
certainly explain Wheeler’s gradual 
180, shifting his opinion from 
opposition toward to acceptance of 
net neutrality in the last few months.
It’s scary that the internet 
community came so close to losing 
some of its fundamental consumer 
rights, only to be saved by a bunch 
of nerds on Reddit and similar sites 
and a few large tech companies 
(also nerds).  So next time you feel 
like binge-watching “Friends” or 
“House of Cards, ” go out and thank 
a computer nerd. He or she probably 
helped save your internet.CONFUSED MUSE  By Elyse Yang
FCC Was Pushed T o Switch Its Stance By Tech Giants, Internet Users
▶ NET, from page 4LETTER  TO  THE  EDITOR
Dear Editor,
With the Candidates’ Meeting 
coming up this Thursday, A.S. 
Council election season is officially 
upon us. As someone who success -
fully ran in last year’s election, I know 
that the majority of students is either 
apathetic or disinterested — don’t 
worry, I’m not here to convince you 
otherwise. That’s the candidates’ job. 
Instead, I want to offer you a few 
pieces of advice about surviving the 
upcoming mayhem. 
1) Take the free stuff. Slates will 
invest part of their budgets into give -
aways (pens, candy, etc.) in an attempt 
to win votes. If you are offered some -
thing, take it! Not only does it not 
obligate you to vote for the candidate 
in any way, you’ll be out of the situa -
tion 10 times quicker than if you try 
to refuse.
2) Pretend you’re a dog and ignore 
the colors. Slates are a wonderful tool 
for candidates to pool their resources 
and increase their chances in the elec -
tion, but they are next to meaningless 
when it comes to voting. The names, 
colors, slogans and t-shirts are all non -
sense. Do yourself a favor and ignore 
the bundling mentality that so many 
students have. Just because you voted 
for a candidate from a particular slate 
doesn’t mean you have to vote down 
the ticket, and usually there are quali -
fied candidates on all the slates. Red, 
blue, purple — none of it matters. 
3) Engage the candidates, 
but know when to call them out. 
The best way to find out whether 
someone is worth voting for is to 
get them off script. Each slate will have a slogan or talking points, and 
almost every candidate will have an 
elevator pitch long enough to bore 
you into walking away. It’s far more 
entertaining to ask a candidate for 
his/her campaign goals and then 
follow up on the details. Y ou want 
to increase accountability and trans -
parency in student government? 
Interesting, how are you going to 
go about that? Bolster campus spirit 
and unity? Sounds great — what are 
your ideas?
4) Know your rights and know 
your fees. One thing I learned from 
being in A.S. Council this past year 
is that, believe it or not, your student 
government actually makes meaning -
ful decisions regarding your academ -
ics, student life, health and well-being 
and even tuition. As the VP Finance, 
I was personally responsible for allo -
cating funds for an almost $4 million 
budget. The A.S. president regularly 
meets with both the chancellor and 
vice chancellor student affairs and 
often serves as the official voice of the 
entire undergraduate student body. 
If you are not part of making these 
decisions, you’re basically flushing 
your student fees down the drain. To 
put things into perspective, that’s over 
$150 dollars every year. 
5) Sit back and enjoy the show. 
Regardless of the election, there will 
always be squabbling, and shots will 
always be fired. It’s just part of the 
game. Honestly, it can be absolutely 
hilarious sometimes. Take a moment 
to appreciate the shenanigans every 
now and then, and the next month 
will be a lot more enjoyable. Happy 
elections, Tritons!
— Igor Geyn
ASUCSD VP Fincance & ResourcesSurviving the Next 
General A.S. ElectionsAmsterdam feels quaint — wound with lazy canals and lined with charming townhouses — yet there’s 
no lack of things to see or do. Peruse the galleries, from the famous Van Gogh Museum and Rijksmuseum 
to the unusual Museum of Purses and Bags. Stroll through the scenic Vondelpark or the botanical Hortus 
Botanicus. Visit Oude Kerk, literally “Old Church, ” ironically located in De Wallen, the infamous red-light 
district. Outside of the city, the cheese markets of Edam and Alkmaar and the blooming tulip fields of 
Haarlem are just a train ride away.
Amsterdam has all the advantages of a small city: It’s quiet, uncongested and clean. Many attractions are 
within walking distance, and the extensive public transit covers the entire city. Bike lanes line the streets and 
paddle boats provide an alternative, albeit exhausting, route to see the city from the picturesque canals. The 
railway on the edge of the city provides convenient transport to the rest of the country.
Flowers drape the light posts, and beautiful parks fill the space between inviting cafes. In Amsterdam, there’s 
never a drab moment.6
                                                                              PHOTO COURTESY OF MASSIMO CATARINELLA
Fun fact:  Amsterdam is located two meters below sea level.Amsterdam,  Netherlands
As the last bastion of the multicultural caliphate in Spain, Granada has always occupied a romantic 
place in the Spanish cultural consciousness. Granada is dominated by the bright red and fantastical 
Alhambra — crouching on a hill over twisty Moorish market streets and broad boulevards. The city is 
a contradiction, with an intensely personal and intimate layout, clustered around two neighboring hills 
with a small valley in between, contrasted with ample opportunities for sightseeing, hiking and relaxing 
in southern Spanish style. With the tombs of the Catholic conquerors of Spain, Ferdinand and Isabella, 
just a stone’s throw from the traditional caliphate-era Albaycin, Granada in many ways is both the most 
solidly Catholic and Spanish of cities, as well as the last representative of a lost and poetic Moorish style.
PHOTO COURTESY OF ALEJANDRO MANTECON-GUILLENGranada, Spain
If your budget doesn’t quite allow for a trip around the world, you can take a short drive up the coast to 
find stunning beaches, fun places to shop and wonderful sights to see in the gorgeous city of Santa Barbara. 
Y ou could spend almost your entire trip working your way down the famous State Street while visiting the 
Santa Barbara Museum of Art and many shops and dining spots until you make it down to the beach. Once 
you do eventually hit the sand, you can enjoy a bike ride up and down the coastline, taking in the scenic 
view and salty air. Then, as the sun cools down, you can finish your day by walking across the pier where 
they have stores filled with tourist keepsakes and restaurants that overlook the ocean as the sun sets and 
sailboats come in to dock for the night.
                                                 PHOTO COURTESY OF JOHN WILEY
Fun fact:  Mission Santa Barbara is one of the oldest edifices in California.Santa barbara, californiaFun fact:  Granada, in southern Spain, is in the heartland of “tapas.” In many of its restau -
rants, when you order a drink, you get free food with it, and the more drinks, the more food!WEEKEND
Travel Guide 2015
—     adam   fisher     Staff writer
—      Na than   cook     Staff writer
—      Devon  Munos     Staff writerSpring Break should not be spoiled on pizza bagels and “Friends” reruns. Alright, maybe it should — but in 
case you get tired of watching Ross and Rachel break up, get back together and then break up again, you 
might want to prepare a backup plan. This year we asked our staff to share their most memorable travel 
experiences, and per request, they have divulged some must-see locales. Whether you’re itching to take a 
plane to Shanghai to see the cityscape from The Bund skyscraper, or you’d prefer to stay put on the California 
coast browsing State Street in neighboring Santa Barbara, you can read all about it here. The world is here for 
you to explore, so please, do consider getting up off the couch. We promise it will be there when you return. ARTS   |   FOOD & DRINK   |   LIVING   |   FILM  &  TV   |   MUSIC   |   THINGS  TO  DO
A&E EDITOR  // JACQUELINE KIM 
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGLIFESTYLE EDITOR  // NILU KARIMI
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Design By  Joselynn Ordaz // Design EditorWEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MARCH 5, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
Valid at  
Round Table Pizza UCSD Price Center, La Jolla • (858) 457-2060
Dine In and Carry Out Only
WEEKLY STUDENT SPECIALSdiscover the best kept secret on campus!
Monday Madness
$2 Tuesday
Pasta Wednesday
Thursday Bundle Deal
Flatbread Friday
Weekend Special50% off Any 2nd Large or X-Large Pizza
1-Topping Pizza Slice + Drink = $2  
Add Another Slice for Just $1.25
Free Garlic Parmesan Twists with Any Pasta
Large 1-Topping Pizza and Choice of 6 Garlic Parmesan Twists , 
6 Classic Wings or 8 Boneless Wings $20.99
$1 Off Flatbread & Drink  
Plus $2 Off Select Pitchers!
$1 Off Our Everyday Low Price Lunch SpecialsRapidly becoming one of the world’s largest industrial hubs, Shanghai is an epicenter of power and 
progress. With skyscrapers towering over the skyline, advanced technology accessible at every corner and 
extravagant nightlife at places, like the exclusive bar No. 88, it’s clear why Shanghai has become such a 
popular destination for the sophisticated traveler or entrepreneur. Y et within the bustle, tucked away from 
the elusive high-rises, are small eateries, serving xiao long bao — steamed buns filled with succulent pork 
and aromatic soup — along with bowls of rice noodles, beef and delicately sweetened rice adorned with red 
beans wrapped in banana leaves. Ornate tea houses serve freshly brewed oolong, while market vendors sell 
their decorative items. Juggling an advancing global influence with traditional Chinese culture, Shanghai is 
the perfect balance of the old and new. 
I’m sure you’ve heard that it is your civic duty to the nation to see its capital — and you may have even 
gone on a school trip to see it when you were younger — but Washington, D.C. has more to offer than an 
obligatory walk through history. D.C. offers a different way of living and an intricate subway system that 
can take you anywhere you want to go. Should you decide to move above ground, in just a short distance, 
you can find tons of places to eat, hit multiple national monuments and even run into a state official or two 
(#selfieopportunity). The capital even has an amazing nightlife that includes everything from clubs to sports 
bars and karaoke. It is a beautiful place to visit during the winter while it’s covered in snow or in the spring 
when it’s sunny and the cherry trees have blossomed. Washington, D.C. should always make your list of top 
places to visit.
                                                       PHOTO COURTESY OF JAMES DEMERS
Fun fact:  The White House was actually burned down during the War of 1812 and then rebuilt.Washington, D.C.Fun fact:  In Shanghai, time and location is transcended — anything is available for 
delivery, from groceries to flowers & food!
shanghai, chinaWEEKEND
Travel Guide 2015
PHOTO COURTESY OF MIGUEL A. MONGAS
—      Brittney  Lu     Contributing writer
—      Devon  munos     Staff writer8     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MARCH 5, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
Native 
Foods CafeHidden below the concrete 
pavements of Fourth Avenue 
is a small eatery that brings 
the meaning of an underground res -
taurant to a very literal sense. Beneath 
the buzzing Hillcrest nightlife lays 
Kous Kous, a quiet bistro and lounge 
you might miss if you’re not looking 
too carefully. However, if you’re lucky 
enough to stumble into Kous Kous, 
you will be instantly transported into 
a little niche that appears to be a cross -
over of an aisle at World Market and a 
scene out of “ Aladdin. ”
Dimly lit by intricate lanterns 
and candles, with billowing fabrics 
to frame ornamental decor and plush 
Bohemian cushions, you are instantly 
greeted by a charming staff, the per -
sistent yet pleasant scent of cumin and 
a large projector appropriately play -
ing “Casablanca” to add to the exces -
sively Moroccan atmosphere. While 
the environment is, in a sense, an 
assimilated perspective of Morocco, 
the food in no way strays far from the 
traditional. 
 The menu itself is quite over -
whelming. From the wide array of 
cocktails, teas, tapas kabobs and tag -
ines, you’ll be tempted to eat a bit of 
everything — with Kous Kous being 
the only restaurant in San Diego to use the traditional method of cooking 
tagine in a souk, a Moroccan clay pot. 
They recommend you try one of the 
featured Moroccan feasts. However, it 
is worthy to note that it is just that — a 
feast. The waiter himself will warn you 
of the tremendous amount of takeout 
you’ll receive at the end of your culi -
nary experience. With that in mind, it 
is useful to come with an empty stom -
ach and plenty of companions. 
Casting all that aside, the food 
makes it well worth it. With a starting 
cost of about $24 per patron, you can 
sample a variety of Moroccan foods 
from baked, crispy pitas circling a 
mound of hummus or a refreshing, 
herbal cucumber and feta salad, to 
fluffy Saffron rice garnished with gar -
banzo beans and succulent lamb stews 
marinating in an exotic marriage of 
spices and sauces. If the communal 
eating style is not for you, try a few 
appetizers, like the noteworthy B’stila 
roll, a crispy phyllo pastry stuffed with 
tender chicken, orange blossom water, 
cinnamon glazed almonds and dusted 
with the perfect amount of powdered 
sugar to create a harmonious blend of 
sweet and savory. Or try the zaalouk, 
which is roasted eggplant marinated 
in cumin, lemon and olive oil.   
While many of the items show -cased at Kous Kous seem bizarre and 
daunting to the average eater, the well-
informed staff will do more than help 
you navigate the menu by giving you 
an extensive look at the ingredients, 
as well as a detailed and historical 
account behind each Moroccan deli -
cacy, rounding out your entire experi -
ence at Kous Kous. Moreover, the food 
itself will cast aside any previous doubt 
one may have about the unique flavors 
of Moroccan cuisine. The only down -
side might be the lack of authenticity 
in the actual eating process; instead of 
sticking to the traditional way of using 
hands, the restaurant sadly recom -
mends the use of silverware. But even 
this trivial nod to Western eating in no 
way compromises the overall dining 
adventure one embarks at Kous Kous.
 With its alluring ambiance 
and unfamiliar but enticing cuisine, 
it’s a shame that Kous Kous is not 
placed on higher ground. An integral 
factor in San Diego’s food scene, Kous 
Kous is a small but mighty force that 
deserves more recognition than its 
location can provide.
—    Brittney Lu
 Contributing WRITEr
REST AURANT   REVIEWPHOTO BY MATTHIAS SCHEER/ UCSDGUARDIAN
As a successful chain of vegan 
restaurants, Native Foods 
has lived up to its name in 
terms of both its fresh, tasty food 
and friendly dining service. 
The Twister Wrap ($9.95) is one 
of its signature items. It comes with 
a choice of blackened or grilled 
Native Chicken made with nuts, 
non-genetically modified soy and 
wheat, both of which are medio -
cre representations of real chicken 
(only slightly more chewy). On the 
plus side, this hearty-sized wheat 
wrap is embellished with cucum -
ber salsa, dewy baby greens and 
avocado. Unlike tomato salsa that 
plays with spiciness, the refresh -
ing cucumber salsa is sweeter and 
vinegar-oriented.
 For customers who want to sit 
in and take their time to enjoy their 
native foods, the free-refill policy is 
very welcoming. The Watermelon 
Fresca ($2.50) is highlighted by a 
touch of mint that does not over -power the pleasant, natural taste 
of watermelon. Iced teas, hot teas, 
coffee and lemonade are also avail -
able for free refills. The best part 
is, if you register for a membership 
card, you’ll get a free drink with 
your meal.
Native Foods is not just for 
vegans — by enhancing the fla -
vor and presentation of vegan food, 
it succeeds in introducing natural 
foods to newbies. Accompanied by 
a friendly environment and warm 
service, these exquisitely prepared 
dishes make it easier to understand 
why some prefer fake chicken. 
Native Foods could be a great start 
for non-vegans who want to enjoy 
more vegan ingredients without 
stepping too far from their comfort 
zones.
—    Yulin Liu
staff WRITErREST AURANT   REVIEW
HOURS:
Mon. to Sun. 11 a.m. to 10 p.m.LOCATION:
5604 Balboa Ave Suite 107
San Diego, CA 92111$
HOURS:
Sun. to Thurs. 5 p.m. to 11 p.m.
Fri. to Sat. 4 p.m. to 11 p.m.LOCATION:
3940 4th Ave. 
San Diego, CA 92103 $$PHOTO BY MATTHIAS SCHEER/ UCSDGUARDIANWEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MARCH 5, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
The lights go up on three 
old men — broken, drunk, 
bewildered — pacing a small 
cell. “The Twenty-Seventh Man” 
focuses on the last hours of four of 
the Yiddish language’s best writers 
and poets as they await execution 
in a Soviet prison. The play is both 
intensely personal and incredibly 
culturally specific, referencing both 
the writings of the Yiddish writers 
who were actually imprisoned on 
the Night of the Murdered Poets (the 
characters of the play are fictionalized 
versions) as well as using elements of 
the Jewish culture in the Soviet Union 
in general.
Perhaps one of the most enthrall -
ing elements of “Twenty-Seventh 
Man” is that it remains so watchable 
and thick with tension in spite of 
not a great deal actually happening 
on stage. The three major Yiddish writers — Y evgeny Zunser (Emmy-
and-Tony-Award winner Hal Linden), 
Vasily Korinsky (Robert Dorfman), 
and Moishe Bretzky (Ron Orbach) — 
are all trying to come to terms with 
the reality of their imprisonment and 
the reasons for it when an amateur 
writer, Pinchas Pelovits (Eli Gelb, 
“The Thickness of Skin”) is wrapped 
in a carpet and dumped into their 
cell. Unraveling the mystery of his 
incarceration with them becomes 
central to the entire question of why 
they have been locked up and what it 
means for the Yiddish language.
Each of the players is absolutely 
engaging to watch in the intimate 
space at The Old Globe’s small “in 
the round” Sheryl and Harvey White 
Theatre. Dorfman’s Korinsky has 
the clearest character arc to work 
with, going from a slavish devotee of 
Stalin (who, in history, had done a 
great deal in supporting the Yiddish-
speaking cultural arts before sum -
marily destroying them later in his 
life) to a disillusioned man who 
must come to terms with the fragil -
ity of his own accomplishments. But 
each of them, even the “nobody” 
Pelovits, has his own struggle to deal 
with.
The cast is very much at the top 
of their game, all playing off of each other well enough to bring the audi -
ence to tears at points. The techni -
cal elements are all up there with 
them: The stage has an interesting 
mechanical conceit, raising and low -
ering to create new configurations 
of set, and the sound design creates 
both the oppressive atmosphere of 
the prison as well as the sense that 
there is an invisible and powerful 
world of stories and storytellers just 
beyond the walls of the jail cell.
Many plays like this one — fol -
lowing men who are to be executed 
inside a dark prison cell — could 
be tempted to be simply oppressive 
and dark. In this kind of setting, 
it’s so easy to beat into the audi -
ence that the horrors of prison life 
reveal the equal horrors inside men. 
“The Twenty-Seventh Man” must be 
congratulated for doing nearly the 
opposite: Its four prisoners become 
almost ecstatic near the end, reach -
ing a deeper understanding of their 
art and themselves. Instead of end -
ing on a pure note of darkness, “The 
Twenty Seventh Man” ends with 
the words “I liked it very much. ” 
We leave the theater with the same 
sentiment.
—    Na than    Cook  
Staff writerjust  kids
by  Ma t  kearney
Release Date Feb.  24
Kearney’s newest installment is an enthusias -
tic effort bursting with sincerity. ALBUM   REVIEW
“I kept asking myself, ‘What 
would it sound like if Paul 
Simon and Kanye West 
were in a room together?’” In this 
statement from Republic Records, 
Mat Kearney helped shed some light 
on the array of influences for his lat -
est project. It’s true that, on the sur -
face, his newest album “Just Kids” 
can feel like an easy-listening hit 
parade, and yet the entire time, he 
channels his singer-songwriter roots 
while laying down dynamic raps 
that slide away from convention. 
Amid a tour regiment from Los An -
geles to Sweden, and in an effort to 
explore new territory, he began ex -
perimenting and constructing from 
his trailer. 
His first revelation, “Heartbreak 
Dreamer, ” begins the stream of tunes 
with a catchy autobiographical spo -
ken word-turned-uplifting anthem. 
It exemplifies that Kearney is back 
with an eclectic sound that accen -
tuates his creativity. The album as a 
whole is laden with electronic beats, 
synthesizers, claps and a cross-genre 
style that is hard to pin down. In a 
sense, you have the lyricism of Paul 
Simon but the swagger of Kanye, all 
blended with ’90s pop. It is in all re -
spects joyfully exuberant while still 
revealing some hidden crevices of 
intimate introspection. 
Above all, “Just Kids” is an honest 
portrayal of life, and Kearney read -
ily dishes out anecdotes about his 
childhood in Eugene, Oregon (“One Black Sheep”), his wife (“Billion”), 
the birth of his daughter (“Ghost”) 
and his long, hard journey to mu -
sic stardom (“Los Angeles”). By the 
world’s standards, he is a major suc -
cess. And yet, Kearney paints a pic -
ture of himself that is as human as 
any of us. In “One Heart, ” he voices 
the fears of every heart: “There’s got 
to be more than just this flesh and 
bone/ Tell me I’m more than just 
the scars I’ve known. ” He asks the 
same questions that we all do and 
reaffirms that we are not alone. It’s 
a sincere album which should elicit 
a great respect for Kearney, not just 
as a lyricist or a musician, but for his 
willingness to open up about life. 
We see it all laid before us: the inspi -
rations, the struggles, the defining 
moments. It’s all there. 
His goal was “to bleed each lyric 
as opposed to just writing songs” 
and he packaged that candor with 
a diverse sound that complements 
his heart-on-the-sleeve mentality. If 
either trait was lacking, “Just Kids” 
would wreak of banality. Instead, 
prepare yourself for an authenticity 
and nostalgia that rings of unforget -
table memories delivered through 
honest lyrics and vibrant beats. Also, 
be relieved that this is less Kanye 
West and more Paul Simon. 
—    Tynan  Y anaga 
Staff writer
PLA Y   REVIEW
Directed by  Barry Edelstein
Written by  Nathan Englander
Cast Hal Linden, Robert Dorfman, Eli Gelb
Runs  Feb. 14 to Mar. 22
Location The Old Globe Theatre“The Twenty-Seventh 
Man” treads the line be -
tween terror and ecstasy.
10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MARCH 5, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
CLASSIFIEDS$
Guar dian Classi/f_ieds ar e FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifieds
BIKES
Bike Topper Bike Rack for Tandem Bikes - 
$70. The rack is in great condition. It works 
for tandems and recumbent bikes and 
normal bikes, too. Listing ID: 127479122 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Perfect Commuter Cycle - $165. Ideal bike 
for jaunts around America’s finest city, 
whether it be for rides to work, beaches or 
bars. Listing ID: 127479121 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
Fixie - $150. Fixie for sale. Practically brand 
new. Bought from Urban Outfitter for $399 
and rode around just a few times. The 
brand name is “Mixie” from Europe. Listing 
ID: 127479120 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
ELECTRONICS
Samsung Galaxy Camera - $180. 4.8” HD 
super clear display. 1080p HD Video. Full 
HD video recording with HDMI output 
for playback. Upload photos directly to 
Facebook. Camera is in excellent condition, 
no scratches and all cables/charger/origi -
nal box included. Listing ID: 126549958 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
informationCross Cut Shredder - $1115. Destroyit 
2503CC cross cut shredder is ideal for cen -
tralized office setups. It can shred up to 
fourteen sheets per pass. It can shred opti -
cal media credit cards and paper clips. 
Listing ID: 126041115 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Polaroid 300 Instant Film Camera BLUE - 
$50. Slightly used. Comes with batteries. 
Listing ID: 126041119 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
FURNITURE
Beautiful Glass Shelf - $50. Need space in 
the room and selling this beautiful dark 
cherry glass shelf. Listing ID: 126041123 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Oriental Screen - $650. Terrific looking ori -
ental wooden four-panel folding screen, 
72” x 72” . Very skillful carvings. Listing ID: 
126041122 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Sleeper Sofa Microfiber - $175. Sleeper sofa 
microfiber. Excellent condition. Used by 
only me. Now in storage and need to clear 
it. Listing ID: 125416649 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
t
your visio n,
our missio n.
outfitters@ucsd.eduCreate custom a pparel to 
promote your student 
organiza tion with Triton 
Outfitter's new Made TO Order program!www.ucsdguardian.org/advertising
.com/ucsdguardian
.com/ucsdguardian
Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies 
on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.ukLevel: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
Level:
12
34Level:
12
34Level: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
SUDOKU
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MARCH 5, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
No. 17 UCSD baseball traveled north to 
Hayward to take on Cal State East Bay last 
weekend to continue California Collegiate 
Athletic Association action. The Tritons won 
three of four to improve to 13–7 overall and 9–3 
in the conference.
Junior right-hander Justin Donatella (3–1) 
tossed his first complete game in his collegiate 
career in game one, finishing the night with a 
pitch count of 98 and allowing only two runners 
to reach base in a phenomenal shutout outing. 
The career-high performance, which carried the 
Tritons to an easy 5–0 victory, brought Dona -
tella’s ERA down to 0.36 overall and zero runs 
allowed in CCAA action. In addition to this sea -
son’s shutout stats for the pitcher, Donatella has 
not allowed a run in CCAA play in 21 consecu -
tive innings, stretching back to last year. 
“Donny just put us on his back and com -
peted his tail off out there for us, ” UCSD head 
coach Eric Newman told the UCSD Athletics 
Department. “His stuff was just OK early on, 
but as the game went on, he really settled in 
and started to pitch. He was commanding his 
fastball. He really just did it with his fastball 
command, and threw the breaking ball when 
he needed to. It was about his fastball today. He 
was really good. ”
Donatella’s performance thus far in 2015, 
and specifically his hallmark complete game in 
Hayward, lead to his recognition both as the 
CCAA Baseball Pitcher of the Week and as the 
National Collegiate Baseball Writers Associa -
tion West Region Pitcher of the Week for the 
last week of February. “Donny” also joined 
fellow Triton and freshman swimmer Stepha -
nie Sin to be honored as the San Diego Hall of 
Champions Star of the Month for February.
Game two in Hayward saw both teams tied 
at two through the first two innings until the 
Tritons managed a four-run third initiated by a 
single from junior infielder Troy Cruz. Sopho -
more outfielder Jack Larsen went 3-for-5 with 
a home run, two doubles and two RBIs, while 
crossing the plate himself three times in what became a 9–3 UCSD win.
UCSD’s luck would run out in the first game 
of Sunday’s doubleheader against the Pioneers, 
however, as the home team bested the Tritons 
21–10 in an offensive blowout. Cal State East Bay 
scored 21 runs on only 11 hits and 38 plate ap -
pearances. Senior left-hander Trevor Scott (3–2) 
was credited with the loss as 10 Pioneers crossed 
the plate during his 2.1 frames on the mound, 
with none of those runs earned. The UCSD 
bullpen had a rough outing altogether, and could 
not keep up with East Bay’s offensive firepower. 
Despite the tough loss earlier in the day, the 
Tritons bounced back in the seven-frame night 
cap Sunday evening to claim a 10–2 win to 
clinch the series.
“We dug ourselves a rather large hole [in 
game one] just by not playing catch, but the 
response from the players across the board was 
very good, which allowed us to continue to play 
hard through the first game despite difficult 
circumstances, ” Newman said. “That carried 
into the second game, as we kept the quality of 
our at-bats and play at a high level. Y ou never 
want to lose a game the way we lost the first 
one. Responding to it the right way was just as 
important. ”
Cruz (2–2) threw from the hill for his second 
winning decision of the year out of four starts. 
He is credited with five knock-outs in the game 
in six frames while allowing only six hits.
Next up, UCSD will meet West Region 
Champions Chico State University at home for 
a four-game series starting Friday, March 6 at 
6 p.m. at Triton Ballpark. The annual contest, 
as always, could have significant post-season 
consequences in terms of seed and home field 
advantage. Donatella is scheduled to open on 
Friday against Wildcat ace and All-American ju -
nior Luke Barker in what is sure to be one of the 
best pitching contests in Triton Ballpark during 
the 2015 campaign.
The No. 19 ranked UCSD women’s water 
polo team had mixed fortunes on Sunday at the 
UC Santa Barbara Campus Pool as the Tritons 
came away with a win and a loss from their 
two games. UCSD played two incredibly close 
games, falling narrowly 5–4 to No. 17 UCSB in 
the morning session before bouncing back to 
take an 11–10 win over Cal State Bakersfield. 
Now holding a losing 8–12 record well into 
the second half of the season, UCSD continues 
to struggle without its top scorer, junior two-
meter defensive player Alexis Wieseler, who is 
still out with an injured hand.
The first game saw UCSD tie a season-best 
in goals against, with five, but the Tritons still 
could not come away. The higher-ranked UCSB 
Gauchos dominated early on as they crafted 
two back-to-back scores to quickly move 
ahead. The Tritons fought hard and managed 
to create a penalty opportunity, which junior 
attacker Laurel Kristel converted to make the 
score 2–1 at the end of the opening period. 
In the second period, junior goalkeeper 
Courtney Miller managed to keep the Gauchos 
out of the cage. This led the way for senior 
attacker Jolene Guiliana to tie up the match 
with only 33 seconds left in the half. 
The third quarter saw UCSB bounce back, 
producing two goals in the period to the 
Tritons’ one. Sophomore center Lauren Boyer 
scored UCSD’s sole goal in the period, as the 
Tritons trailed 4–3 going into the final period. 
Guiliana continued her efforts as she 
levelled the scores once again at the beginning 
of the fourth with her second goal of the 
game. However, with 1:39 left in the game, the 
Gauchos managed to find the back of the net 
once more, resulting in a bitter 5–4 defeat for 
the Tritons. 
The one bright spot of the disappointing 
loss came from Miller’s 11 stops in the cage 
along with the strong Triton defense that 
combined to record the season-low goal-
against tally. 
In the second game of the day, the Tritons 
looked to settle old scores as well as bounce 
back from the day’s earlier defeat. UCSD had fallen 11–6 earlier on Jan. 24 to Cal State 
Bakersfield and was looking to avenge the loss. 
It was clear the Tritons were hungry for 
redemption as they took an early 3–1 lead 
with just 2:16 gone on the clock. However, 
the Roadrunners proved they weren’t going 
to simply lie down by scoring three back-to-
back goals before UCSD junior attacker Emma 
Sasson tied things up at 4–4 at the end of an 
explosive beginning period. 
UCSD then took a 6–5 lead into halftime 
thanks to scores from the Guiliana and fellow 
junior attacker Julia Kirkland. 
Once again, Cal State Bakersfield proved to 
be tough competition as its aggressive offense 
responded with three goals in the third period 
to take the lead back. Still, the Tritons managed 
to score two, tying the score at eight with one 
period to go. 
The climactic final period saw each team 
grab two goals to level the game at 10. Guiliana 
scored once again for her fourth goal of the 
day, and sophomore attacker Lani Tittle also 
managed to find the net for the Tritons.
With four minutes left in the game, 
Kirkland stepped up for UCSD to score her 
fourth of the game to clinch an 11–10 victory.
“The defensive battle against UC Santa 
Barbara this morning really tired us out, ” 
UCSD head coach Brad Kreutzkamp told the 
UCSD Athletics Department. “With a two-hour 
turnaround, I was proud of the way we came 
out and were able to score 11 goals against [Cal 
State] Bakersfield, a team that beat us by five 
earlier in the year. ”
UCSD will now hope to build a winning 
streak at the Claremont Convergence on Friday, 
March 6 and Saturday, March 7. The blue and 
gold will take on Claremont-Mudd-Scripps at 
2 p.m. and Pomona-Pitzer College at 7:20 p.m. 
on Friday, as well as Chapman University at 
11:40 a.m. and University of La Verne at 3:40 
p.m. on Saturday.
readers can contact
ka tie potts    kpotts@ucsd.edu readers can contact
john  stor y    jstory@ucsd.edu W. W A TER  POLO BASEBALL
UCSD Splits in Santa Barbara Donatella Shines Against CSUEB
Tough loss comes against UCSB before win over CSU Bakersfield. Right-hander shuts down East Bay as Tritons take three of four. SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
BRANDON  YU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MARCH 5, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
UCSD women’s basketball is currently the hottest team coming into the California 
Collegiate Athletics Association tournament, riding a seven-game winning streak that 
included victories against top-seeded Cal State Dominguez Hills at home and against second-
seeded No. 15 Humboldt State and fifth seed Cal State Stanislaus on the road. The Tritons 
hold the fourth seed and a 16–6 conference record (18–8 overall), and will face Cal State San 
Bernardino (14–8), the fifth seed, in the first round of the CCAA championships. 
UCSD split the season series against Cal State San Bernardino earlier, losing 56–64 at 
home on Jan. 23 and winning 64–61 just this past weekend on Feb. 28. The Tritons will come 
in with momentum on their side after winning their last matchup to cap off their seven-game 
win streak to end the season. The Coyotes, on the other hand, concluded on a pair of losses. 
However, in spite of being the lower seed, San Bernardino is still a force to be reckoned 
with. The Coyotes are led by junior guards Alexcia Mack, Chelsea Barnes and Brianna Harden 
who average 13.5, 12.3 and 12.3 points per game, respectively. They also own the best defense 
in the league, allowing a league-low 58.9 points per game, which promise quite a battle with 
the Tritons’        offensive firepower.
In their January matchup, Cal State San Bernardino limited UCSD to only 32.3 percent 
shooting from the floor, as the blue and gold struggled to get anything going. 
However, the Tritons are now a different team as demonstrated in last week’s win, in which 
UCSD’s cohesiveness and growth as a squad were on display. Although the game remained close 
and even, UCSD grinded out the victory.
This Triton team is also one of the most experienced in years, with six seniors who just 
celebrated Senior Night two weeks ago. However, UCSD is truly led by standout junior forward 
Farrah Shokoor, a transfer from San Francisco State playing her first season with the team. 
Shokoor leads the league in rebounding at 12.4 per game, a full three boards over the next 
best. She is also in the top 10 in scoring, blocked shots and steals, leading the team in all these 
categories. 
She is supported in her efforts by senior guard Miranda Seto, who also scores in double digits 
per game. Senior centers Dana Webster and McKennan Bertsch (who leads the league in field 
goal percentage, at a ridiculous 69.5 percent) combine with Shokoor and Seto to create a truly 
terrifying frontline at the league level. Guards Haley Anderson, Beth Mounier and Taylor Tanita 
also contribute to make it a very deep and talented team, with power inside and accuracy outside. 
UCSD is one of three teams (behind Cal Poly Pomona and Humboldt State) to score over 70 
points a game, and allow a league low 10.5 assists per game — a testament to their team defense. 
The Tritons suffered a slow start to the season after the initial period of acclimation with new 
blood joining the team. However, after finding its groove, UCSD rode a five-game win streak and 
a later seven-game win streak to post the 16–6 record. Especially in recent weeks, the Tritons 
appeared to be firing on all cylinders.
Through the 2015 campaign, UCSD has defeated every other top-6 team at least once. The top 
two teams, Humboldt State and Cal State Dominguez Hills, have identical 19–3 records to combine 
for only six conference losses. UCSD is responsible for three of them, being the only team to win 
against Humboldt State this season and sweeping the season series over Cal State Dominguez 
Hills. If UCSD is to defeat San Bernardino, the Triton women would move on to face top-seed 
Dominguez Hills in the semi-finals with history on their side. 
“In this tournament, I really think anyone can win it, ” UCSD head coach Heidi VanDerveer told 
the UCSD Guardian. “I think we beat all of the top teams this season, but also a team like East Bay 
played everyone really hard. I really think anyone has a shot, so why not us?”
Having led UCSD to a conference crown just two years prior, VanDerveer hopes to avenge last 
season’s early postseason exit this year. With a cast of highly talented players, 2015 looks like it 
could be the time to reclaim the throne. 
“If we give it all we can, we should win the conference tournament, ” Shokoor said. “No doubt. ”With the conclusion of the California Collegiate Athletics Association’s regular season, the 
UCSD men’s basketball team looks to keep their season alive when they face off against fourth-
seeded Cal State Stanislaus on Thursday, March 5, in the first round of the CCAA playoffs.
The Tritons finished the season with a 16–10 overall mark and a 14–8 conference record, 
good for fifth in the standings. The Tritons rank first in the CCAA for defensive rebounds, 
second for most made threes and third in points allowed. UCSD also commits the lowest 
number of turnovers in the CCAA.
Cal State Stanislaus also finished 14–8 in conference, however, holding the tiebreaker 
against UCSD. Stanislaus was also the fourth seed for last year’s CCAA postseason, where it 
ended up going all the way and winning the CCAA crown on a seven-game win streak. The 
Tritons were a win shy of the playoffs last year.
This year’s CCAA playoffs will be hosted at the Stockton Arena in Stockton, California 
after having the tournament held in Ontario’s Citizen Bank Arena for the past two years. With 
the Stanislaus campus only 45 minutes away from the arena, the Warriors look to feed off the 
crowd as the game will practically a home game. Stanislaus also comes into Stockton with 
some strong momentum, currently riding a three-game win streak. The Tritons are on a roll 
of their own, winning four out the last five games.
Earlier, UCSD was swept in the regular season matchup against Cal State Stanislaus. The 
Tritons suffered a 48–53 defeat at La Jolla, then a heartbreaking 66–67 double overtime loss 
at Stanislaus. The blue and gold struggled offensively in both of their matchups against the 
Warriors. In those two games, the Tritons shot an average of 36 percent from the field, 9 
percent lower than their season average of .445. The Tritons struggled especially from deep, 
hitting only 4–22 from three-point territory in their first matchup and shooting a subpar 32 
percent in their second.
Despite a pretty uneven campaign, UCSD has by far exceeded preseason expectations. 
Having been pegged to finish ninth in conference from a preseason poll, UCSD has crafted 
quite the surprisingly impressive 2015 campaign. 
The Tritons started their conference schedule with a few losses, but a six-game winning 
streak in the middle of the schedule helped them launch their season’s success. UCSD 
then suffered a few other disappointing losses, but won four out of five coming into the 
postseason and looks as dangerous a squad as there is.
UCSD scores 67 points per game and allows only 61.5. The men’s team is led by junior 
guard Hunter Walker, sophomore guard Adam Klie and junior forward Drew Dyer, who 
are all scoring in double figures. Dyer is the Tritons’ best three-point shooter and ranks 
in the top five in three-point percentage for the conference. Klie and junior center Zach 
McMillan also grab over five rebounds a game for the Tritons. Klie is in an incredible 
stretch run that ranks him third in overall shooting percentage in the league, an amazing 
feat for his position. His sudden emergence as one of the best guards in the league is a 
big reason for UCSD’s playoff clinching season. 
However, aside from the likes of Walker, Klie and Dyer, the Tritons have truly found 
success operating as an ensemble, with various players stepping up each night,  such as 
sophomore guards Aleks Lipovic and Jeff Van Dyke. Even newcomer freshman guards 
Grant Jackson and George Buaku have contributed in clutch moments. 
The top six teams of the 12-team conference will compete for the CCAA 
Championship and a bid for the Division-II National Collegiate Athletics Association 
playoffs. If UCSD advances to the semi-finals, conference leader Chico State University, 
who along with second-seeded Cal Poly Pomona earned a first-round bye, will await 
the Tritons. UCSD had split their regular season matchup with Chico State.
Third-seeded Humboldt State will square off against Cal State San Bernardino on 
Thursday. The JackRabbits will look for their first win against San Bernardino, the 
only CCAA team that they could not defeat this season. The winner of that game will 
face off against Cal Poly Pomona in the semi-finals.
The game between UCSD and Cal State Stanislaus will tip-off 5:30 p.m. on 
Thursday, March 5, while the potential matchup against Chico State will take place at 
5:30 p.m. the following day.Battle for CCAA Crown
Fifth-seeded Tritons hope to continue year’s surprising success. Riding seven-game win streak, UCSD enters as a top contender.
BY DANIEL SUNG SENIOR STAFF WRITER  BY MARCUS THUILLIER EDITORIAL ASSISTANT
PHOTO BY ALWIN SZETO // GUARDIAN  FILE
PHOTO BY ALWIN SZETO // GUARDIAN FILEW. Basketball
M. Basketball
M. Tennis
Softball
Baseball     3/5
     3/5
     3/5
     3/6
     3/6AT CCAA Tournament
AT CCAA Tournament
VS Villanova
VS Sonoma State
VS Chico StateUPCOMING
UCSD
GAMES
saturday, 7:35 p.m.
saturday, 5:05 p.m.friday, 5:35 p.m.
friday, 8:05 p.m.#1 chico state
#2 cal poly pomona#5 uCSD
#4 Cal State stanislaus
#3 Humboldt #6 Cal state san bernardino
#1 humboldt state
#2 cal state dominguez hillsfriday, 2:35 p.m.friday, 12:05 p.m.#5 Cal state san bernardino
#4 ucsd
#3 cal poly pomona#6 cal state east bay