VOLUME 49, ISSUE 4   MONDA Y , OCTOBER 5, 2015  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
GET THE SKINNY 
ON BLACK’S
The UCSD Guardian trekked to 
Black’s Beach to understand 
the experiences of beachgoers 
and surfers — both nude 
and clothed. Learn about the 
“clothing optional” section and 
the legality of public nudity.
VOLK SW AGEN  SCANDAL
DOUBLES  A T  NA TIONALSDeceptive  business  practices
west  region  championsOPINION,  P age  4
sports,  P age  12
MONDAY
H 73 L 60TUESDAY
H 74 L 62
WEDNESDAY
H 75 L 65THURSDAY
H 78 L 66
FORECAST
VERBATIM
IT GOES WITHOUT SAYING 
THAT IN THE SAN DIEGO RAINY 
SEASON, THERE IS NO POINT 
WHATSOEVER IN ATTENDING 
CLASS. MOST LIKELY YOUR 
PROFESSOR IS NOT GOING 
TO SHOW UP ANYWAY AND 
WILL JUST SUBMIT A POD -
CAST ONLINE. THE SMARTEST 
COURSE OF ACTION IS TO 
REMAIN IN BED...”
-     HOW-TO GURU
OPINION , PAGE 4
INSIDE
SMILING BABIES  ............. 2
PARKING  ......................... 4
BLACK’S BEACH .............. 6
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU  ....9
THIS WEEK IN SPORTS  ..12“FEA TURES,  P AGE  6
PHOTO BY HAOCHENG TANG / GUARDIAN
The National Cancer Institute 
renewed a five-year, $13 million grant 
to a partnership between UCSD and 
San Diego State targeted at decreasing 
the cancer rate of the Latino population 
on Sept. 28. This grant is significant 
because it provides the necessary 
funding for the research to continue.
Dr. Scott Lippman, director of 
UCSD’s Moores Cancer Center, 
explained the importance of the 
research grant and how it closes the 
gap of cancer rates between Latino and 
non-Latino communities. 
“By renewing this unique 
partnership, NCI is recognizing the 
success and commitment of UC San Diego and San Diego State University 
to outstanding science, research 
education and community outreach, ” 
Lippman said. “Cancer continues 
to be the leading cause of death 
for Hispanics, but together, we are 
advancing research and closing the 
gap on cancer disparities    in this 
community. ”
This grant renews the partnership 
that started in 2008 between the two 
schools. This collaboration also aims 
at helping Latino cancer patients in 
San Diego. According to the American 
Cancer Society, cancer is the leading 
cause of death among Latinos, whereas 
it is the second leading cause of death 
among the general U.S. population. 
Furthermore, the American Cancer 
Society also reported that one in two Latino men will be diagnosed with 
cancer and one in three Latina women 
will be diagnosed with cancer.
Rebecca L. Siegel, director of 
surveillance information for the 
American Cancer Society, explained 
that the next generation of Latinos, 
many of whom are born in the U.S., 
experience high cancer rates.
“The second generation, born and 
raised in the U.S. and more intertwined 
in our lifestyle, including our diet, 
has higher cancer rates than first-
generation immigrants, so we may see 
a higher cancer burden in this group 
in the future, ” Siegel said in a statement 
to UCSD.
According to the UCSD News Sun God Report Shows Rise 
in Nonacademic Dishonesty
UCSD’s Office of Student Conduct released its 
annual report for the 2014–15 school year 
indicating an increase in reported incidents 
of both Student ID Card trading and visits to detox 
facilities. The statistics were made available on Sept. 1.
There was an increase in cases of non-academic 
dishonesty which occurred because students were 
required to bring their ID Cards to Sun God Festival 
2015. Forty-five cases of attempted selling or purchasing 
were processed altogether, a spike from the two cases 
reported last year.
Students found responsible or who accept the 
charges faced several consequences, including a year 
of probation, completion of the Ethics Workshop (now 
called the Practical Decision Making Assessment and 
Reflection workshop) and inadmission to 2016’s Sun 
God Festival.
Additionally, the report found that 60 percent of 
student incidents ended in admission to UCSD’s Detox 
Center, a 13 percent rise from last year. In comparison, 
the Sun God Detox Center admitted 20 percent more students than the previous year. 
Collectively, the amount of students sent to general 
detox facilities had escalated relative to prior years.
“We have seen an increased number of incidents 
involving students sent to detox facilities, ” the report 
described. “During 2014–15, there were 45 percent 
more students taken to detox than in 2012–13. ”
A.S. Associate Vice President of Student Advocacy 
Lavinia Osilesi told the UCSD Guardian that availability 
of these reports is significant for students.
“I’m glad that these statistics [were] released because 
now student leaders can critically analyze them to 
determine what the next best method of reaching out 
to students to prevent future student conduct code 
violations, ” Osilesi said. “The Office of Student Advocacy 
will utilize the information and documentation in order 
to develop more effective strategies for communicating 
with and sharing knowledge with students. ”
Sixth College senior Rachel Fisher was not surprised 
with the report’s findings in regards to ID sales.
“I find the increase in alcohol consumption   B y  Simon  yu   Contributing Writer Napolitano 
Raises UC 
Minimum 
Wage to $13UC SYSTEM UC SYSTEM
UCOP’s three-year plan 
ultimately aims to normalize 
the minimum wage to $15 
per hour for UC employees.
BY   R a a h i m a   S h o a i b
Staff Writer
See  WAGE , page 3UC President Janet Napolitano 
implemented the first phase of her 
systemwide “Fair Work, Fair Pay” plan 
last Thursday by raising the minimum 
wage to $13 per hour. Eligible 
University of California employees will 
then receive raises of $1 per hour each 
year for the next two years.
Kate Moser, Media Relations 
Representative for the University of 
California, told the UCSD Guardian 
Napolitano’s intent behind the 
new wage policy is to support the 
university system’s employees.
“President Napolitano believes 
raising UC’s minimum wage is 
one critical way the university can 
support its employees and their 
families, as well as ensure a fair 
wage for workers employed by 
contractors hired by UC, ” Moser 
said.“The University of California 
is the first public university in the 
nation to voluntarily establish a 
$15 minimum wage, and with this 
change, the UC [system] is a leader 
in the national effort to establish a 
fair minimum wage. ”
The UC Office of the President’s 
press release describes how the 
oversight will be used to implement 
new reporting systems.
“ As part of the new policy, [the] 
[UCOP] will enhance its oversight 
of contractors and subcontractors 
for wages and working conditions, ” 
UCOP stated. “This includes 
a telephone hotline and online 
reporting system, both already in 
place, that contract workers can use to 
report complaints and issues directly 
to the Office of the President. ”
Alberto Perez, a student at UC 
Santa Barbara, told the The Daily 
Nexus of UCSB about an unspoken 
rule the UC system has regarding 
part-time student workers.
“For student workers, the University 
of California has had this kind of 
unspoken rule that suggests students 
don’t work over 20 hours because it 
might cut into their schoolwork and 
education, which makes sense in most 
cases, ” Perez said. 
A.S. Vice President of External 
Affairs Krystl Fabella criticized the 
plan for essentially excluding students 
since it requires workers to put in 20 
hours per week in order to earn the 
new minimum wage.
“The expectation of four hours 
every day of the week, just to meet 
the higher minimum wage bar, will 
exempt almost all student workers 
completely or drive students to work 
even more hours, ” Fabella told the 
Guardian. “We should be alarmed that 
students are trying to work over 20 
hours a week, when our focus should 
be on coursework, career development, UCSD and SDSU Extend Research Partnership
The two universities aim to develop methods to reduce cancer rates among Latinos.See SGF, page 3
See  CANCER , page 2SUN GOD FESTIVAL
SAN DIEGO(Congressional Budget Office Projections )
(UCOP Fair Wage/Fair Work Plan)California Hourly 
Minimum Wage
UC System Hourly 
Minimum Wage2015:
2017:2016:$
$
$9
1010
Jan-Sept 2015:
Oct 2015:
Oct 2016:
Oct 2017:$
$
$$9
131415Minimum Wage Comparisons: UC System vs. California{195,000
 total workers3,2004,325
workers a ffected by 
new minimum wagework-study jobs
(UCOP Annual Wage Report )
(US Bureau of Labor Statistics)UC Labor 
Force Statistics
Infographic by Joselynn Ordaz
By   o m k a r   m a h a j a n
staff writerCenter, Latinos tend to have the 
highest rates of cancers that are 
associated with, but are not limited to, 
leukemia, liver, stomach and cervical. 
On the other hand, whites are more 
likely than Latinos to develop more 
common types of cancer such as 
breast, colon and prostate. Y et Latinos 
are more likely to be diagnosed in 
the advanced stages of cancer and are 
less likely than non-Latinos to survive 
after diagnosis. This is because of a 
lower number of health screenings.Dr. Maria Elena Martinez, the 
Moores Cancer Center’s principal 
investigator on the SDSU/UCSD 
cancer partnership, described 
how the partnership aims to take a 
comprehensive approach at educating 
Latinos about cancer.
“There are needs not being 
addressed in cancer education, 
prevention and care among 
Hispanics, ” Martinez said in a press 
statement. “This partnership helps 
to reduce disparities by taking a 
comprehensive approach with the 
help of 29 community partners representing stakeholders in the 
Hispanic community in San Diego 
and Imperial Counties. ”
Elva Arredondo, an SDSU 
associate professor in the Graduate 
School of Public Health, explained 
that the partnership will also increase 
cancer research opportunities at 
both institutions.
“The Partnership will provide an 
opportunity for investigators from 
various levels to conduct innovative 
research which will strengthen the 
cancer research agenda at SDSU 
and UC San Diego, ” Arredondo said in a statement to KPBS San Diego 
Public Radio.  
Some of the opportunities this 
partnership creates include programs 
specializing in cancer research. 
Among these is the Reducing 
Cancer Disparities research program 
and health centers geared towards 
providing for underprivileged Latino 
populations, such as the San Ysidro 
Health Centers and the Family Health 
Centers of San Diego.2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 5, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
A COUPLE OF DERPS By Elyse Yang
REGISTER ONLINE AT AS.UCSD.EDU/SAFERIDESRegistration for FALL QUARTER IS NOW OPEN!
A.S. Safe Rides allows registered undergraduate students 
to get 3 FREE rides per quarter. Students MUST
register at least 24 hours prior to their ﬁrst ride. A.S. SAFE RIDES 
@asucsdGrant Renewal Will Improve Specialized Cancer Research Programs at Both Institutions
▶ CANCER,  from page 1
Omkar  Mahajan   omahajan@ucsd.edureaders can contactResearchers at the UCSD Machine 
Perception Laboratory published a 
study that suggests that babies time 
their smiles to elicit a smile in return. 
The researchers detailed their findings 
in the Sept. 23 issue of PLOS ONE, the 
study being a part of an effort to better 
understand human development 
through the use of robots. 
Headed by Javier Movellan, 
a research scientist at the Machine 
Perception Laboratory and an alumnus 
of the Jacobs School of Engineering, the 
team conducted its study by designing 
and constructing Diego-san, a robot 
that mimics toddler-like behavior.
The researchers programmed 
Diego-san to have four different types 
of behavior in order to emulate the 
babies they have studied. One such 
set of behavior was for Diego-san to smile back every time the person it 
interacted with smiled.
In testing their theory, Diego-
san interacted with 32 UCSD 
undergraduates for individual 
three minute sessions. Researchers 
observed similarities between these 
interactions and communications 
with human infants; Diego-san smiled 
as infrequently as possible, yet still  
caused the undergraduates to smile 
quite often.
During the experiment, Diego-
san confirmed the team’s findings. By 
using data from another study that 
observed the interactions between 13 
infants and their mothers and running 
that data through an algorithm, the 
team found that the act of smiling was 
not sporadic or random for babies. 
Instead, 11 of the 13 babies in the study 
clearly showed intentional smiling. 
Dr. Leslie Carver, a professor in the 
department of psychology at UCSD, 
concurred with Ruvolo and said that babies are active participants in social 
interactions and that smiling cannot be 
attributed to random behavior. 
“When they first start smiling, 
babies aren’t just behaving randomly 
— they’re systematic and doing 
something that has some sort of intent 
behind it, ” Carver told the UCSD 
Guardian. “I’m not sure that you could 
say babies are consciously aware of 
what they’re doing, but their behavior 
is predictable and not just random. ” 
Carver also mentioned that people 
should not jump to conclusions based 
on the actions of a robot.
“I would caution people against 
assuming that because a robot can be 
made to produce the same behavior as 
an infant, that the infant is necessarily 
doing the same thing as the robot, ” 
Carver said. 
While stating that Diego-san 
supports the researchers’ hypothesis 
that babies act in certain ways 
intentionally, Carver thinks that there could be other reasons at play. 
“It’s possible … that babies have a 
‘goal’ when interacting with an adult — 
but there might be other reasons that 
the robot and the baby would behave 
in similar ways as well, ” Carver said. 
In addition, the creation of Diego-
san and the researchers’ findings can 
help us better understand human 
development. 
“We still don’t know very much 
about how infants develop social 
connections with other people. The 
research tests an important model of 
how this process begins, ” Carver told 
the Guardian. “I think that the results 
show that there is an important role 
for socially rewarding experiences in 
how infants develop sociability, and 
I’ d be interested in seeing research 
that extends this to later ages and 
longitudinal studies. ”SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
New Research Suggests Infants Intentionally Reciprocate Smiles
Scientists from the psychology department designed and built a robot to simulate interactions between babies and adults.
BY   A n d r e w   C h a o
Staff Writer
Andrew  Chao   avchao@ucsd.edu readers can contactThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. Jacky is on a date with Jackie...updates coming 
in the next issue.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Marketing Director
Laura Chow
Associate Marketing Director
Peter McInnis
Training and Development Manager
Cedric Hyon
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Vincent Pham
Rosina Garcia
Tina Butoiu
Kriti Sarin
Jacky To
Cassia Pollock 
Marcus Thuillier
Allison Kubo
Kyle Somers
Karly Nisson
Brittney Lu
Olga Golubkova
Jonathan Gao
Megan Lee
Joselynn Ordaz
Sherman Aline
Elyse Yang
Christina Carlson
Jennifer GrundmanEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
 
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
Associate Features Editor
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Sherman Aline, Allison Kubo
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim
Editorial Assistants
Sage Schubert Christian, Katie Potts, Christian Duartemental health and academic growth. ”
Moser responded to these 
concerns by stating that UCOP has 
no influence in the amount of hours 
worked per week and that they are 
decided upon by many factors.
“The number of hours per week 
worked by students who participate 
in federally funded work-study, as 
part of their financial aid packages 
is limited in some cases to no more 
than 20 hours per week, ” Moser 
said. “[It depends] on the student’s 
total federal work-study award and 
other factors. ”
Fabella also condemned the 
intent of the plan, which she argues 
was to gain positive publicity.
“No doubt it will benefit many 
workers and set a precedent for 
other universities, but it stands as nothing but a cop-out, a desirable 
national headline, while exempting 
thousands of struggling workers, 
not being enforced for a few more 
years,” Fabella said. “Moving 
forward means holding President 
Janet Napolitano accountable when 
she releases a statement that very 
explicitly and almost shamelessly 
states its priority of becoming the 
first public university in the United 
States to voluntarily establish a 
minimum wage of 15 dollars. ’”
The plan also monitors any 
contractors who provide services 
for the campuses. The UC system 
will require that all contractors that 
are working with the university 
undergo annual audits to ensure 
employees are being compensated 
according to its guidelines.
Despite this, Fabella stated that 
this plan delays the fight for the fair compensation of subcontracted 
workers, who she explained are 
exploited, receive no overtime pay, 
work years without any benefits and 
cannot speak out due to a fear of 
losing their jobs.
“ A lot of students are not aware that 
there are thousands of workers who are 
brought in from outside contractors 
and have been working for years under 
the UC [system] with wages less than 
half of their counterparts and without 
benefits, ” Fabella said. “This minimum 
wage ordeal is for 2017 and therefore 
will act to cop-out on demands to give 
contracted workers benefits and equal 
pay for equal work NOW . Senate Bill 
376 needs to get passed, which would 
require private contractors to receive 
equal pay. ”and overall misconduct slightly 
surprising,” Fisher said. “I was 
expecting the rules to be ineffective 
due to the general dissent toward 
them expressed by students. I also 
think, of course, that the increase 
in ID sales makes sense as well due 
to the university no longer allowing 
outside guests to attend the festival. ” 
Warren College sophomore 
Adam Abadilla stated that students 
are unaware of how detox centers 
are run and how the university may reduce alcoholic incidents. 
“There should be more resources 
that allow students to detox while 
still enjoying the festival (hydration 
stations, adequate seating), ” Abadilla 
said. “ Also more transparency in 
regards to ‘Detox Centers, ’ so many 
students opt not to get help because 
they fear getting in trouble. ” 
Osilesi shared similar views 
and noted the importance of the 
Responsible Action Protocol, 
an amnesty program for referred 
students under alcoholic, or 
controlled substance medical, health and safety emergencies.
“The statistic about RAP caught 
me by surprise,” Osilesi said. “I 
thought that our utilization of RAP 
would have went up, especially with 
the large push that the [Office of 
Student Conduct], RA ’s and OSA 
put on the protocol. I still believe 
that RAP is an effective protocol 
that students should be aware of; 
however, I think that it should be 
more widely publicized. ”NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 5, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
Fewer Festival Attendees Utilized Student Conduct Amnesty Program
Part-time and Student Employees May Be Ineligible for Pay Raises▶ SGF , from page 1
▶ WAGE,  from page 1Simon  Yu  siy007@ucsd.edu readers can contact
Raahima Shoaib  rshoaib@ucsd.edureaders can contactLIGHTS & SIRENSLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edu.
Thursday, Sept. 24
5:17 p.m. Injury
Young adult male hurt ankle by 
falling off scooter on Library Walk. 
Service provided.
Friday, Sept. 25
4:31 p.m. Burglary
Man climbed balcony of Thurgood 
Marshall College apartment and 
gained access. Checks OK.
10:48 p.m. Welfare Check
Elderly woman with bleeding head 
injury requested transportation to 
Oceanside. Checks OK.
11:30 p.m. Disturbance: Domestic 
Violence
Female student arrested on 
domestic battery charges. Closed by 
adult arrest.
Saturday, Sept. 26
11:09 p.m. Excessive Alcohol
Housing Assistant requested help 
with intoxicated student in Tenaya 
Hall. Transported to hospital.
11:31 p.m. Burglary: Hot Prowl
Three females attempted to enter 
a party in Miramar apartments. 
Checks OK.
Sunday, Sept. 27
10:19 p.m. Medical Aid
Y oung adult male reported having allergic reaction to walnuts.  
Service provided.
2:59 a.m. Information
Reports of SOS signal with 
flashlight near Black’s Beach gate; 
unknown if signal was sent from 
ocean or shore. Checks OK.
4:47 a.m. Hazard Situation
Group of people were seen on 
roof of Village East building. 
Information only.
Monday, Sept. 28
6:41 a.m. Traffic Hazard
Female reported exercising in the 
street on Campus Point Drive. 
Unable to Locate.
3:18 p.m. In Custody
Male student attempted to shoplift 
textbook from UCSD Bookstore, 
possessed narcotics without 
prescription. Closed by adult arrest.
Thursday, Oct. 1
10:50 a.m. Medical Aid
A young adult female was reported 
unconscious after hitting her face 
on a branch near Black’s Beach. 
Medical aid declined.
— KRITI SARIN
NEWS EDITOR 
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGsee more at
Follow us on Twitter 
@UCSDGUARDIAN4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 5, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CASSIA POLLOCK
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
In light of  the recent Volkswagen scandal, it is 
important to examine how such a widescale deception 
was allowed to escape public notice for so long.Blissful Ignorance
B Y A y a t Amin  senior staff writer ILLUSTRA TION   B Y IRENE LUU
Parking may not be an explicit right, but that does not mean that 
the City of San Diego is justified in pushing it to the wayside or using 
it to underhandedly fund politicians’ campaigns, as the Voice of San 
Diego reported. It is not appropriate to use parking tickets on Mission 
Beach streets as an under-the-table $6.6 million-grossing “tax” or towing 
companies as a source for thousands of dollars in under-the-table 
contributions to politicians’ election campaigns. A city’s job isn’t to make 
a quick buck by exploiting its citizens, and politicians are supposed to be 
responsible for protecting their constituents’ interests — not their own 
bank accounts. 
That said, if the City truly wants its citizens parking off the streets, 
then the solution isn’t to rely on a deterrent such as mass-ticketing — it’s 
to provide a favorable alternative. It’s building more parking structures 
to take the pressure away from street parking, and it’s understanding 
that, unlike politicians receiving kickbacks, many car owners have few 
options and would choose not to park on potentially ticketed streets if 
given an alternative. 
Towing often seems like another way that the wealthy and powerful 
manage to unethically profit off the general public. In San Diego, there 
were 113 motorists recently involved in an illegal tow scheme. In this 
case, the victims were able to receive their money back, but how many 
illegal fines are being paid by people without the resources, time or ability 
to realize that they are being taken advantage of?
Like the City of San Diego itself, those who must park at UCSD are 
facing fewer and fewer options to do so. Students are familiar with the 
consequences of inadequate parking, considering that as enrollment 
increases, construction continues to eat up parking space on campus. 
With just over 4,600 S-parking spots on campus for almost 25,000 
undergraduate students, there is not even enough space for one-fifth of 
the student body to park — and when half of the student body commutes 
to campus, that’s not good enough, even considering the high usage 
rates of alternative transportation. If UCSD and the City of San Diego 
want to get their acts together, they must recognize that parking spaces 
are a significant part of the transportation system and that it is their 
responsibility to provide the parking that is needed for the system to 
function well. 
—  SAGE SCHUBERT CHRISTIAN
Contributing WriterCity of  San Diego and UCSD Administration 
Should Provide Sufficient Parking Spaces for Students
QUICK TAKESINVESTIGATIONS OF THE CITY’S PARKING AND TOWING PRACTICES HAVE REVEALED VARIOUS ALLEGATIONS OF 
CORRUPTION, INCLUDING EXPENSIVE TICKETS MEANT TO MAXIMIZE PROFIT.
Nobody likes getting towed or receiving a parking ticket. The 
experience is up there with having a cavity filled, getting stuck in an 
elevator or being forced to buy overpriced textbooks. After being towed 
people can feel as if they were robbed, and parking tickets can be just as 
ruthless. According to the International Towing and Recovery museum, 
the tow truck was originally invented in 1916 for the purpose of easily 
pulling cars out of places they do not belong, such as from creeks. It was 
created to help people but has often strayed from that purpose. 
NBC 7 reported last week that the city is refusing to refund 
individuals who are ticketed for parking on a “street-sweeping” day, 
when the street is, in fact, never actually swept. It is clear from numerous 
allegations of corruption in the City of San Diego, that the towing and 
parking industry are in dire need of a reform, but the important services 
the towing companies provide should also be taken into account.
There are many people who cannot afford constant fees and tickets 
for simply parking, and the city is acting on this. According to NBC 
7, Gov. Jerry Brown has created a program to officially pardon certain 
California residents who had their driver’s licenses suspended due to 
their inability to pay traffic fines.
On another note, while some towing companies participate in 
predatory practices, this is not representative of the entire industry. A 
roadside technician reported to the Voice of San Diego that he worked 
with the Western Towing company for 10 years with consistently positive 
results. He said that the company was courteous, timely and considerate 
enough to handle towed cars very carefully. A 65-year-old woman also 
told the VOSD that a tow truck actually helped her start her car when the 
battery died.
Here at UCSD, we face our own problems with limited parking 
spaces. There are constant campus security officials strolling up and 
down the parking lanes searching for the tiniest offense. The university 
is so underfunded that it’s forced to stir up a profit from the average 
student who is merely trying to park on campus. The towing and parking 
industry should return to its original purpose of helping people situate 
their vehicles, instead of exploiting students who are already shackled 
with absurdly expensive tuition.
—  CASSIA POLLOCK
Opinion EditorTo w i n g  C o m p a n i e s  U s e d  t o  H e l p  Pe o p l e,  I n s t e a d  o f  
Exploiting Cash-Strapped Students and Local ResidentsIt’s 2015, and we are still trying to cheat climate change — at least, the 
German car company Volkswagen is, but we’ll come back to that later. 
It all started decades ago, when scientists realized just how harmful 
man-made pollution is to the ozone layer, particularly those pollutants 
from power plants and automobiles. Together these sources were releasing 
a family of nitrous oxide gases that were creating a new, completely man-
made level of pollution in our atmosphere, according to HowStu ffWorks. 
These pollutants are highly toxic to humans. The New Y ork Times quotes 
that human-caused ozone pollution contributes to 500,000 asthma 
hospitalizations yearly. Worldwide, it kills about 470,000 people a year, the 
journal Environmental Research Letters reported in a 2013 study.
In other words, these pollutants are serious and entirely our fault: a 
catastrophe, actually. We humans were — and still are — literally poisoning 
ourselves via our atmosphere. To curb the output of such pollutants into 
the atmosphere, regulations were made around the globe limiting emission 
levels, especially those of cars. In the United States, this resulted in the Clean 
Air Act. Although created in 1970, it wasn’t until the 1990 amendment 
that the use of technology was fully required to measure standards, the 
Environmental Protection Agency reported. Although reluctant, the 
automobile industry — Volkswagen included — was forced to comply, or so it seemed.
Now flash back to a few weeks ago, when we discovered that Volkswagen 
duped us all. Instead of rising to the di fficult task of developing new 
technology to meet emission standards, Volkswagen cheated. It built 
a device that could detect when the car was being tested for emissions 
standards, and would temporarily change performance to pass the test. 
However, a fter the test the car reverts to its old ways, emitting nitrogen oxide 
at 40 times the legal U.S. limit, BBC News reported.
And the catastrophe deepens. According to Bloomberg, 11 million 
Volkswagen cars are fitted with this device worldwide. Not only that, the 
New Y ork Times reminds us that some of the cars were marketed as green 
cars, with the Jetta TDI even being praised as the “Green Car of the Y ear” by 
the executive director of the Sierra Club. The depth and scale of the scandal 
continues to appear worse and worse.
Investigations are currently continuing to see whose head (or heads) 
shall be served. Volkswagen’s CEO Martin Winterkorn has resigned, but a 
question remains: How could the entire company and all of its customers 
stand by and allow this corrupt business practice to continue unchecked? 
After all, CNN points out that one out of every nine cars globally is a 
Volkswagen car. So why didn’t any whistleblowers come forward sooner? 
See VW SCANDAL, page 5How-To 
Guru: 
Survive the 
Fierce Rain
When the rainy season kicked 
off on Sunday, there was no 
one to share an umbrella and 
words of wisdom with you. Cars 
hydroplaned, students slipped 
through pavement puddles and lots 
of hair got wet. But hey, it’s okay. 
We’re here now. With this handy-
dandy guide, you will never again 
face an onslaught of dangerous 
ice-cold rain without knowing basic 
survival skills.
Tip number one: Wear a full-
body hazmat suit to ensure zero 
contact with liquid drops. But if 
this is not an affordable option for 
you, consider the following ideas: 
Wear all the rain-protective gear 
that your parents enthusiastically 
sent in a care package for you after 
they heard about the first rain 
forecast. Take those knee-high 
plastic boots covered in adorable 
yellow ducks and strap them on. 
Don’t even think about wearing 
sandals. Without these boots, your 
feet could become dangerously 
moistened, allowing you to contract 
a bacterial infection of the toes.
Next, put your bubble-gum 
pink raincoat on, and top it off 
with a translucent fish-bowl shaped 
rain cap. Make sure to weightlift 
regularly in order to carry the 
thickest umbrella without straining 
your arm muscles. Invest in a pair 
of swim goggles that will protect 
your eyes from the acid in the 
rain. At all costs you must avoid 
any contact between the rain and 
your face or your hair. Rain causes 
skin damage and frizzy hair, which 
could destroy your entire beauty 
regimen. If you look a little bit like 
an alien toddler breathing through 
a gas mask, then congratulations, 
you’re on the right track.
In case you get too hot and 
absolutely need to ditch the rain 
gear, make sure to only dress in 
white clothes because this will give 
you a rare opportunity to share 
the color and the adorable polka-
dotted patterns of your underwear 
(which you are so proud of) with 
your fellow UCSD students, once 
your rain-drenched outfit turns 
completely translucent. If anybody 
makes fun of you, don’t pay them 
any notice. They’re just jealous of 
your amazing taste in lingerie.
Once you are wearing the 
proper attire, don’t go outside, 
if possible. Keep your umbrella 
expanded indoors as well as 
outdoors, because one can never 
too prepared for sudden rainfall. 
But outside is where the wettest 
of the wetlands lie, so it is best 
to avoid this dangerous situation 
whenever possible. Keeping the 
umbrella expanded will also 
prevent other students who are wet 
and dirty from approaching you 
too closely, so it will function as a 
personal shield of dryness.
It goes without saying that in 
the San Diego rainy season, there 
is no point whatsoever in attending 
class. Most likely your professor is 
not going to show up anyway and 
will just submit a podcast online.
The smartest course of action 
is to remain in bed, bundled up 
in lots of blankets. Don’t forget 
to binge eat all the brownies your 
parents lovingly included in your 
care package while you squander 
your tuition money on an urgently 
needed nap. Lie safely in bed and 
shoot off a few emails to your TAs 
apologizing for being absent today.OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 5, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
The answer probably lies somewhere 
in stocks, company pressure and cash.
Although Volkswagen is expected 
to pay billions in reparations, it hardly 
seems su fficient. The truth is, when it 
comes to climate change, it will have 
zero impact. Although a lawsuit is 
being pursued against Volkswagen, 
it’s not environmentally based. As the 
New Y ork Times points out, the Clean 
Air Act includes no criminal penalties 
for automobile violations. The lawsuit 
is coming from the fraudulent 
marketing violations. In addition, 
reparations are only going toward 
those who lost investments in the 
companies. From the legal perspective of the environment, this is a huge slap 
in the face.
In present times, climate change 
is still not being taken seriously by 
corporations, which predictably 
accompanies a lack of regulation. 
Take a look at Shell. The New Y ork 
Times reported this month that 
Shell decided that it would stop 
participating in arctic drilling. While 
this is a commendable decision, it 
stemmed from capitalistic motivation. 
Shell realized that drilling in the arctic 
would not yield su fficient pro fits. For 
corporations, the environment is not 
their top priority. But now is the time 
to change that. For one, the United 
Nations just announced 18 Sustainable 
Development Goals to be achieved by 2030. Taking urgent action against 
climate change is one of them. 
In addition to the UN goals, legal 
repercussions for companies a ffecting 
the global climate need to exist. 
More importantly, if a corporation 
damages the environment, it should 
be financially required to invest in 
technology for amending its error. 
There is a dire need for more oversight 
on corporations that signi ficantly 
affect the environment. The 
government should also o ffer better 
incentives to encourage whistleblowers 
to come forward sooner. It may 
already be too late to stop the 
pollution from further damaging the 
environment, but there’s still time to 
correct the error of our ways.
3Y
YOHJI YAMA MOTO
Y-3 La Jolla
7852 Girard Ave. 
La Jolla, CA 92037
(858) 551-9911
@Y3LAJOLLAWORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
Corporations Wreak Havoc on the Environment by Cheating on Regulations
▶ VW SCANDAL,  from page 4SEND YOUR 
LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGGOT ISSUES?6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 5, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
ALLISON  KUBO
features@ucsdguardian.org
Bare   on   Black s   Beach
This week, the UCSD Guardian made the hike down to the “Clothing Optional” section of Black’s Beach, 
one of the largest nude beaches in the West Coast, to get the skinny on nudity, sur fing and self-con fidence. by Alvin Chan , Staff Writer & Kyle Somers , Associate Features Editor
Photos by Haocheng Tang/UCSD Guardian
For more information visit friendsofblacksbeach.comReaders can contact 
Alvin Chan alchan@ucsd.edu
As she started to collect her clothes to hike out from Black’s 
Beach, Kat, a middle-aged, unclothed aeronautical engineer 
and blogger, talked about her experience at San Diego’s premier 
nude beach. Though it wasn’t her first experience being nude in public, 
it was her first time coming down to Black’s, and she had just finished 
drying o ff after boogie boarding with a male friend of hers.
“There are actually a lot of women out here today, as well as men. 
That made me feel really good right o ff the bat because, having come 
from a conservative background, I’m really respectful of women and 
don’t want to just stand out, ” Kat said. 
Many UCSD students regard the nudity at Black’s Beach with a range 
of attitudes, from acceptance and curiosity to hesitancy and outright 
disgust. Because of the large cli ff one must hike down to get there, many 
students avoid the less clothed parts of Black’s. 
To give a brief overview, Black’s Beach is home to primarily two 
communities: nudists and surfers. Surfers frequent Black’s Beach 
because it’s o ften less crowded than other nearby breaks and because it’s 
often considered one of the best sur fing beaches in Southern California, 
if not the West Coast. Its ability to hold high quality surf anywhere 
between three and 30 feet — as we saw in winter 2005 — draws many 
serious surfers from the San Diego area. 
One fully clothed mat-sur fing couple, Chris and AJ, said that they 
make the hike down to Black’s Beach because the waves at Black’s are 
better than any of the nearby breaks and because the water is cleaner 
than spots near Paci fic Beach. They enjoy the waves and the smaller 
number of people compared to La Jolla Shores.
“We come here a couple times a month. The water’s really nice, and 
usually it’s pretty empty here, ” Chris said. “ The waves are bigger here 
and more intense than those down at the shores. ”
The couple sat in the sand only a few hundred feet south of Kat 
and the nude part of the beach,  a mile-long stretch just north of the 
waterfall and south of Flat Rock Point. However, they refrained from 
commenting on their beachgoing companions. 
“I have to admit, I was at first very uncomfortable with this. It took 
a while for me to get used to this and strut my stu ff, ” Kat said. “If you 
have a judgment, you suspend it for a little bit. I think [you] need to be 
open-minded and experience life. You have to judge the situation as to 
whether or not it will be a safe place to be. ”
Although it seemed unnatural, for Kat, and for many at Black’s 
Beach, the “au naturel” reminds them of vulnerable beginnings.
“We weren’t born in clothing. When you put on clothes, your 
personality changes to match what you’re wearing, and you are sort of 
acting, ” Kat told the UCSD Guardian. “It’s like a costume in a way, and 
you act according to what costume you have on. When you don’t have 
anything on, you are not hiding who you truly are. ”
Growing up in a conservative environment, Kat wasn’t always 
interested in public nudity. She changed her views about nude beaches 
after trying it several years ago with her then-boyfriend.
“Society tries to tell us certain things when we see certain things” , 
Kat added. “I liked my boyfriend as a person and everything about him  
Continued on page 8FEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 5, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
DOs   and   DON'Ts   of  Black s   Beach
DO                                                                                                                
TAKE YOUR OWN SUNSCREEN .
BRING WATER. SAVE SOME  FOR THE WALK  BACK UP.
BRING FOOD .
PACK OUT YOUR OWN TRASH.
GIVE OTHERS REASONA BLE SPACE .
BRING A GOOD  ATTITUDE.
SPEAK UP FOR YOURSELF . IF SOME BODY IS BEING 
OFFENSIVE , SAY SOME THING.DON’T
GET UNDRESSED  UNTIL YOU’RE ON THE BEACH.
BRING GLASS  CONTAINERS .
STARE AT OTHERS.
TAKE PHOTOS WITHOUT PERMISSION .
ENGAGE  IN ANY SEXUAL  ACTIVITY.
from friendsofblacksbeach.comCAHILL  POLICY -  LEGALITY OF BLACK'S BEACH  NUDITYRoutes   to   Black's   Beach
On May 31 of 1979, Director Russell Cahil began the “Cahill Policy” which allows Black’s Beach to exist as a clothing optional beach and 
is the basis of the Friends of Blacks Beach community. 
The policy states 
“Therefore, it shall be the policy of the Department that enforcement of nude sunbathing regulations within the State Park System shall 
be made only upon the complaint of a private citizen.  Citations or arrests shall be made only after attempts are made to elicit voluntary 
compliance with the regulations.  This policy should free up enforcement people to concentrate on other pressing duties.”
Torrey Pines Route- 
This way provides a safe path to Black’s Beach along the beach. At low tide, walk either north from La Jolla Shores 
or south from Torrey Pines State Beach. There is parking available at both locations: however, both of these routes 
are only passable at low tide.
Salk Canyon Route- 
This is the most convenient route walking from campus.  From Revelle College, cross Torrey Pines Road to La 
Jolla Shore Drive and then turn right onto La Jolla Farms Road. There is an access road and black gate at the 
intersection of La Jolla Farms Road and Blackgold Road. From the gate there is a steep paved road to the beach. 
Near the beach there are trashcans and restrooms for convienience. 
Gliderport Route-
By parking at the Torrey Pines Gliderport, one can hike down to the beach through this route. This path is          
dangerous a fter rainfall due to the steep, unstable and muddy steps. Proper shoes are highly recommended. This 
path leads to the north end of the beach.8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 5, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
LASER TAG!
PLAY THE GAME THAT  
WILL CHANGE YOUR LIFE...
•  Group Events  
– Fraternity  
– Sorority 
– Student Orgs
•  Huge Party Area  
to 150+ Guests
•  Thursday Night = 
“College Night”  
3rd Game Free
3146 Sports Arena Blvd.  •  San Diego, CA 92110  •  619.221.0100  
www.ultrazonesandiego.com
•  Late Night at the ZONE —  
Midnight to 2am Fri & Sat
DISCOVER A 
GENEROUS  
SCHOLARS HIP 
PROGRAM.
©
2
0
1
4
. 
P
aid 
f
or 
b
y the Un
i
t
ed 
S
t
a
t
e
s Ar
m
y
. 
y
. 
y
Al
l
 rig
h
t
s
r
es
er
v
ed
.
The U.S. Army’s Health P rofessions Schola rship 
Program (HPSP) offers qualiﬁed med ical, de ntal 
and veterinary students full tuition for a g radua te-
level deg ree at the school of your choi ce. You’ll 
receive a mo nthly stipend and payment for boo ks, 
equipme nt and a cademic fees, as well as th e 
potential to grow as a l eader.
To learn more, visit
healthcare.goarmy.com/z130
t
your vision,
our mission.
The Associated Students Store Contact madetorder@ucsd.edu for more info.Create custom apparel to promote your
student organization with Triton Outfitter's
new Made TO Order  program!Friends of Blacks Beach Seek to Preserve Nudity Option
readers can contact
al vin  chan  alchan@ucsd.edu 
PHOTO BY HAOCHENG TANG/ UCSD GUARDIAN
PHOTO BY HAOCHENG TANG/ UCSD GUARDIANbefore he was a nudist. There’s 
a part of me that is open. I ask 
myself why some people do things 
a certain way, so I guess I was open 
just because I felt safe with my 
boyfriend. ”
For those who have been to 
Black’s Beach, the area seems to be 
mostly populated by older men. 
However, the community is actually 
much more diverse.
“Not everyone on the beach 
is retired. There is also a nudist 
society for people of younger 
ages who visit Black’s. I think that 
younger people are more open-
minded than older people, ” Kat 
said. 
Currently, the Friends of Black’s 
Beach provides guidelines and 
advice to beachgoers. Dave Cole, a 
West Coast Representative of the Naturalist Society, started the group 
with the intention of “preserving 
the clothing-optional status of 
the southern section of Torrey 
Pines State Beach in a relaxed, 
family-friendly atmosphere. ” The 
association emphasizes etiquette 
and respect as a crucial part of the 
beach experience.
At another part of the beach, 
a retired trial attorney, who 
requested to remain anonymous, sat 
peacefully bare under the umbrella 
while eating his mac and cheese. He 
has been going to Black’s Beach for 
20 years now.
“People who come here and 
don’t wear clothes do it for all kinds 
of reasons, ” he told the Guardian. 
“I’m here, like this, because I’m 
from Europe. I grew up in Italy and 
this is how it is at the beaches there. 
Some people here are social and some want to be le ft alone. It’s really 
a mixed group of people here. ”
He then indicated to a fit, nude 
man in his 30s pacing along the 
Black’s shoreline.
“Notice how that guy is walking 
around toward the south end of the 
gay part of the beach, ” he said. “He 
knows he’s attractive, and he wants 
guys to go up and talk to him. ”
After offering a sip of his Coke, 
the man gave some advice to UCSD 
students at Black’s Beach.
“Be yourself — don’t be fake, ” he 
said. “If something is for you, then 
fine. If something is not for you, 
then don’t do it. And students who 
are uncomfortable with the nudity 
should just turn le ft when they get 
to the bottom of the cli ff.”▶ NUDE , from page 6CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 5, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
ART POWER PRESENTS:  LOS HAMSTERSFRI, 10.09 • 7pm TahrirCAMPUS
CALENDAR
OCT 5 - OCT 112015 POWERED BY THE CHANCELLOR’S OFFICE AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guardian
Calenda r
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdg uardian.orgTUE 10.06 MON 10.05 ALL WEEK
8am - 8pm
PROMOTE STUDENT RIGHTS ON THE UCSD 
CAMPUS! º PRICE CENTER EAST, 4TH FLOOR
Are you interested in promoting and protecting the 
rights of students on the UCSD campus? If so, join 
the Office of Student Advocacy- we assist students 
as they proceed through both nonacademic and 
academic integrity cases. Send an email to as 
advocacy@ucsd.edu for more information!
HOURS VARY
PANHELLENIC FALL RECRUITMENT
Panhellenic Fall Recruitment is the time for 
undergraduate women to take a look at all of our 
social sororities on campus. Panhellenic offers an 
array of opportunities for all of it's members 
including service, scholarship, and sisterhood. Take 
a look at what all Panhellenic has to offer and sign 
up for recruitment now! Contact: 
vpmarketing@ucsd.edu Website: 
http://tritongreeks.org/phc
5pm-7pm
HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCI BLDG., RM 1128
This film series explores themes of religion and the 
body. The series opens with Lars Von Trier's 
"Breaking the Waves," an emotionally and 
spiritually challenging film that hammers at 
conventional morality. The series is hosted by 
Professor Dayna Kalleres. Each film presentation 
will be followed by an informal discussion about the 
theme. Open to undergraduates. Free admission. 
Registration/RSVP recommended. Contact: 
religion@ucsd.edu 858-534-8849 Website: 
http://religion.ucsd.edu/events/15-16-events/15FA-
film-series.html2pm
SOCIAL INNOVATION SEMINAR - PC WEST, 
BEAR RM
This fall, Community Service at the Center for 
Student Involvement is hosting Doing Good Better, a 
free, non-credit seminar that'll teach undergraduate 
and graduate students how to take action to solve 
local and global challenges. Possible topics include 
education and global health. Space is limited, so 
please register today! (see link below) Doing Good 
Better will support students in carrying out their 
social innovation projects from idea through 
implementation. Participants will also learn how to 
construct effective applications for statewide and 
international social innovation competitions, 
including Clinton Global Initiative University (CGI U) & 
The Social Innovation Fund at UCSD. These 
competitions provide students with opportunities to 
forge partnerships and obtain funding to turn their 
ideas into action.
5pm
GLOBAL SEMINARS INFO SESSION: 20TH 
CENTURY WORLD HISTORY IN BERLIN - 
INTERNATIONAL CENTER, OCEANIDS PAVILION
Come meet Professor Frank Biess who is leading 
this study abroad program during summer 2016, 
find out about the courses, academic excursions, 
funding options, and how to apply. 
RSVP:https://www.facebook.com/UCSanDiegoGlobal
Seminars/events
5pm
GLOBAL SEMINARS INFO SESSION: MODERN 
JAPAN - INTERNATIONAL CENTER DINING 
ROOM
Come meet Professor Babak Rahimi who is leading 
this study abroad program during summer 2016, 
find out about the courses, academic excursions, 
funding options, and how to apply. RSVP: 
https://www.facebook.com/UCSanDiegoGlobalSemi
nars/events
5pm
OUTREACH TRIVIA NIGHTS - MIDDLE OF 
[MOM]
FOOD, FACTS, FRIENDS, & FUN! Come to Home Plate 
Cafe to meet new people and test your knowledge 
of various trivia categories! Free entry to all UCSD 
students and prizes for winning team! Make this a 
weekly event and turn up the competition! Happy 
hour prices on food and drinks for trivia participants! 
All students are welcome! Come as a team or by 
yourself!THU 10.08
10am
TRITON FALL CAREER FAIR - PC BALLROOM 
WEST
Attend the career fair and find outstanding career 
options that are certain to match your interests, skills, 
and experiences. Utilize this opportunity to research 
companies, understand company hiring needs and 
trends. Meet face-to-face with over 200 employers 
and make the impression that will launch your career!
3pm
PASSPORT TO CULTURE - GUYANA - 
INTERNATIONAL HOUSE LOUNGES, CUZCO 
LOUGE 
Earn your passport and "travel to Guyana!" Learn 
about life and culture from current students who have 
lived and studied in various regions of the world. 
Enjoy a traditional taste of food from the highlighted 
region each week!  Week 2 "Passport to Culture" will 
highlight Guyana! Contact: sheld@ucsd.edu
5pm
GLOBAL SEMINARS INFO SESSION: PIRATES IN 
BRITAIN - INTERNATIONAL CENTER LOUNGE 
Come meet Professor Mark Hanna who is leading this 
study abroad program during summer 2016, find out 
about the courses, academic excursions, funding 
options, and how to apply. Contact: 
globalseminar@ucsd.edu 858-534-11238am
PROMOTES STUDENT RIGHTS ON THE UCSD 
CAMPUS! - PC WEST, 4TH FLOOR
Are you interested in promoting and protecting the 
rights of students on the UCSD campus? If so, join the 
Office of Student Advocacy- we assist students as 
they proceed through both nonacademic and 
academic integrity cases. Send an email to as 
advocacy@ucsd.edu for more information!
10am
3D PRINTING AND MEDIA PRODUCTION SPACE 
COMING TO GEISEL! - GEISEL LIBRARY EAST 
LEARNING COMMONS
Visit the Library's new Digital Media Lab (DML) open 
house on October 5th and 6th. We'll be offering: 3d 
Printing and design consultation, 5k iMacs , 22" HD 
Cintiq Drawing Tablet, Adobe CC, Autodesk Media 
Production and Design Suites, Final Cut X, Camtasia, 
and much more! The lab is located Geisel's 2nd floor 
East Learning Commons, open to all UCSD students, 
faculty, and staff. Email us for details.
5pm
GLOBAL SEMINARS INFO SESSION: SOCIAL 
COGNITION AND DRUGS IN ITALY - 
INTERNATIONAL CENTER, OCEANIDS PAVILION
Come meet Professor Jaime Pineda who is leading 
this study abroad program during summer 2016, find 
out about the courses, academic excursions, funding 
options, and how to apply. RSVP: 
https://www.facebook.com/UCSanDiegoGlobalSemina
rs/events
6pm
UCSD WOMENS RUGBY - WARREN FIELD
Inviting any and all athletes to join UCSD Women's 
Rugby team.  Practices starts week 1 on Monday & 
Wednesday. It's never too early/late to join the 
Women's Rugby Team at UCSD and become part of 
the fastest growing women's college sports in the 
country. We are always looking for enthusiastic, 
hard-working, fun or serious athletes who want to try 
something new. No Experience Necessary! None of 
the current players on our team had any previous 
rugby experience coming in to college, so don't be 
intimidated about trying something new -- we all did!WED 10.07
10am
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY CAREER FAIR - 
RIMAC ARENA 
Attend the career fair and find outstanding career 
options that are certain to match your interests, skills, 
and experiences. Utilize this opportunity to research 
companies, understand company hiring needs and 
trends. Meet face-to-face with over 200 employers 
and make the impression that will launch your career!
1pm
EDUCATIONCROPS INFORMATIONAL SESSIONS - 
VARIOUS
Informational Sessions about EducationCorps, which 
is a tutoring program that sends out UCSD students to 
schools in the San Diego area ranging from grades 
K-12.
Day 1: SSC Rm 260 
Day 2: SSC Rm 260 
Day 3: Green Table Rm 
Day 4: Earl Warren College Rm
5pm
GLOBAL FORUM SPEAKERS SERIES - THE GREAT 
HALL AT I-HOUSE
This year's Global Forum events cohere around the 
thematic of global citizenship. In thinking about global 
citizenship, we begin the fall quarter with a set of 
questions: How does one become a global citizen? 
How do different stakeholders in different geopolitical, 
cultural, and social milieus understand and 
operationalize the idea of 'global citizenship? Finally, 
what does global citizenship look like in terms of 
actions. We hope each of this quarter's events help 
our audiences approach these questions with new 
insights. While we are not looking to assemble a 
selection of 'correct' answers, we are interested in 
complementing and complicating the ways UCSD and 
San Diego communities answer these questions, and 
we hope our speakers keep them in mind while 
preparing their remarks.SAT 10.10
10am
GARDEN HOURS - BEHIND LA JOLLA 
DANCING BUILDING AND CHE CAFE
Interested in growing your own food? Want to 
work toward a climate resilient future? Well come 
to RCG behind the CHE Cafe and the Dance 
Building in Revelle to learn about our agricultural 
system, integrated agriculture and much more! 
Open to any major or student. Plot rentals open to 
all who want to grow their own food.  We are a 
Student Run garden that believes in sustainability. 
Join us every Saturday and/or Sunday rain or 
shine.
6pm
MOOLIGHT KAYAK MISSION BAY - OUTBACK 
ADVENTURES
IImagine: Mission Bay, calm as glass, paddle drips 
break the reflections of the moon and city lights 
above the bay. This is a San Diego experience not 
to be missed. After a quick drive to the bay we will 
have a short skills session, launch for the sunset 
and enjoy the moonlit paddle.  No experience 
required.THE LOFT, PRICE CENTER EAST • $29/STUDENTS
tritonfest.ucsd.edu
       ucsdtritonfest
WK 2
Triton Fest Event Calendar
TRITON FEST @ the
wow festival
FRi., OCT. 9 • 6PM
lA JOLLA PLAYHOUSE
Grab your friends and enjoy 
a theatrical experience that 
knows no bounds! Outdoor 
shows, interactive exhibits, 
free food, and live music, 
brought to you by the 
acclaimed La Jolla 
Playhouse Without Walls 
Festival.LOBAL & LOCAL
night market
SAT., OCT. 10 • 9 PM
INTERNATIONAL LANE
Explore the world without 
leaving your UCSD backyard 
at our Global and Local 
Night Market! Experience a 
night of karaoke, dancing, 
and other exciting enter-tainment while enjoying a 
variety of international and 
local eats.10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 5, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDS$
Gua rdian Classi fieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedscrossword
Across
 1 Baldwin and Guinness
 6 Jalopy
 10 Red coin?
 14 Capital near Casablanca
 15 Edmonton’s prov.
 16 Opposite of aweather
 17 Blank gaze
 18 Bellow
 19 Peeved
 20 Maximum P .S.I.?
 23 Before, before
 24 Ovid’s outfit
 25 Knock lightly
 28 Mine in Marseilles
 31 Aligned with a target
 35 “Turn to Stone” rock grp.
 36 Art school
 38 Sea eagle
 39 Maximum R.P .M.?
 43 Hooked on
 44 T-bone or strip
 45 Actor Wallach
 46 Tyrant
 49 Banjoist Scruggs
 50 Dodge fuel
 51 Island guitars, briefly
 53 Bond’s Fleming
 55 Maximum M.P .H.?
 62 Song for Callas
 63 Perry’s creator
 64 Grimm nasties
 66 Catchall abbr.
 67 “Mrs. Bridge” author Connell
 68 Type of toast
 69 Punta del __
 70 Shipped
 71 Steer clear ofDown
 1 “__ Poetica”
 2 Thin strip of wood
 3 Online auction house
 4 __ diem (seize the day)
 5 Cheap ocean passage
 6 Spy Mata
 7 North Carolina university
 8 Toward the stern
 9 Reception room
 10 Rhythm instrument
 11 “The Time Machine” race
 12 Roman fiddler
 13 Adolescent
 21 Came across again
 22 __ Khan IV
 25 Lukewarm
 26 Coeur d’__, ID
 27 Harbor cities
 29 Cross to bear
 30 Really angry
 32 Norwegian composer
 33 “__ Gay”
 34 Potvin or Leary
 37 Zeno of __
 40 Masses
 41 Soprano Callas
 42 Neighbor of Texas
 47 Positive hand signals
 48 Conical shelters
 52 Dish up
 54 Israeli desert
 55 Prominence
 56 “Battle Cry” writer
 57 Tilt to one side
 58 Spirited vigor
 59 Auto mishap
 60 Singer Guthrie
 61 Mazar of “Civil Wars”
 65 BlueBIKES
Boy/Girl Helmet with Protection Gears - 
$20. Boy/Girl blue Power Rangers helmet 
with protection gears. Attractive condition. 
Listing ID: 192722439 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Schwinn Meridian - $200. Like new condi -
tion, ready to hit the road. They sell for 
$370 at the stores, save big! Listing ID: 
192722438 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
TREK Bruiser Mountain, Commuter, 
Comfort Bike - Trek Bruiser mountain, com -
muter, comfort bike. Dual disc brakes -- 
quality parts and components. Comfort 
seat. Needs rear derailleur repair and a 
chain about 16 inches or 40 cm. Listing ID: 
192722434 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
FURNITURE
High Table and Chair Dining Set - $100. Still 
attractive condition. Listing ID: 192722509 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
informationVintage Suitcase Pet Bed - $65. Vintage 
hard shell suitcase handmade into ador -
able pet bed with removable (hand wash -
able) cushion. Perfect for dogs or cats. 
Listing ID: 192722511 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Patio Furniture - $100. Not used much. It 
needs to be swept up, leaves and stuff fell 
on it. Pillows, chairs, ottomans, center table. 
Listing ID: 192722510 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
ELECTRONICS
GoPro Hero 4 Black - $375. Never used 
GoPro Hero Four Black. Shoots 4k video. 
Includes skeleton case, three position 
mounting arm, mount base plates, USB 
cable. Have the WiFi remote for an addition -
al $45. Listing ID: 192722507 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
Kindle - $60. I have my Kindle for sale. It is 
honestly brand new. Never use it. Listing ID: 
192722504 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
White iPad Mini (16gb) - $200. Brand new. 
Listing ID: 192722503 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
t
your vision,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel to 
promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!GET INVOLVED!
as.ucsd.eduJoin the
Associated Students
asucsd asucsdAssociated Students at UC San Diego 
serves as the voice of the students, 
encouraging communication and unity within 
the campus community through leadership, 
advocacy, and various services.
For more information on how to get involved, 
visit as.ucsd.edu
For mo re info, visit as.ucsd .edu
to.ucsd.edunew fall apparel coming soon...
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 5, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
The No. 14 UCSD men’s water 
polo team traveled north to Orange 
County this past Thursday for a non-
conference matchup against No. 8 
UC Irvine at the Anteater Aquatics 
Complex. The Tritons had a slow start 
and ultimately fell in a devastating 
17–8 decision. They now hold a 
losing 6–7 record, while the Anteaters 
improve to 8–2 on the season.
 UC Irvine found the back of the 
cage five times to open the first quarter 
before the Tritons could even manage 
a goal of their own. UCSD finally 
broke through with 47 seconds left  
in the period when senior two-meter 
Tyler Mancuso rifled a shot home. 
Anteaters’ junior driver Antoine Lena responded with a power play in the 
final seven seconds of the frame to pull 
his team to an already determining 
6–1 lead.
 “ I n the seco nd period, w e set tled 
in and started playing with them, ” 
UCSD Head Coach Denny Harper 
told the UCSD Athletics Department.
The Tritons hung on in the second 
period and matched the Anteaters’ 
four goals with four of their own. 
Junior driver Nick Alexander scored 
twice, and junior utility Nassim 
Hmeidan and sophomore driver Cole 
Martinez each put one goal away to 
end the quarter at a 10–5 deficit.
 However, the Tritons lost their 
grip again in the third frame. The team 
fell to an insurmountable nine-point 
deficit as the Anteaters fired five more 
shots home and held UCSD to just 
one. UC Irvine scored two more in the 
final frame to increase its lead to 10. 
Despite one last goal from Alexander 
with 1:38 remaining on the clock, the 
Tritons could not make up for lost 
time and dropped a hard 17–8 loss. Lovre Milos, Kyle Trush and Matt 
Skinner each recorded hat tricks 
for the Anteaters. UC Irvine edged 
UCSD in saves as well, with junior 
goalkeeper Dylan Peterson recording 
11 saves and Byron Rivers recording 
five. UCSD’s redshirt goalkeeper Jack 
Turner recorded eight of the Tritons’ 
10 saves, and freshman relief goalie 
Sam Thompson posted the remaining 
two.
 However, Coach Harper remains 
optimistic: “Irvine is a good, solid top-
10 team, ” he said. “I’m pleased that we 
played a lot of people tonight. We’re 
still a work in progress. ”
 The Tritons, the second-ranked 
team in the Western Water Polo 
Association behind UC Davis, will 
be on the road again this Thursday 
against WWPA foe California Baptist 
University, which is currently riding a 
five-game winning streak and is third 
in the WWPA, at Riverside at 7 p.m.
HE NAMED MEMALALA
ASCE.UCSD. EDUFor mo re information, contact ASCE at
avpconcerts@ucsd .edu or (858) 534-0 477Thursday, October 8th, 7 PM
AMC La Jolla Theater
FREE for UCSD undergrads with valid ID 
Social
Power
HourSocial
Power
Hour
FREE GAMES, MUSIC, AND FOOD!FREE GAMES, MUSIC, AND FOOD!
FIRST COME, FIRST SERVEd
FIRST COME, FIRST SERVEd
DATESDATES
WHEN AND WHEREWHEN AND WHERE
OCT. 6 & 22 PC COMMUTER
LOUNGE NOV. 5 & 19
DEC. 35PMM. W A TER POLO
UCSD Can’t Shake off  Early UCI Lead  
No. 8 Anteaters lead 6 –1 after the first frame and never look back for a 17 –8 win.
By   K a t i e  P o t t s
Editorial AssistantUCSD
UCI8 - 17
Dahle and Wright both played 
exceptionally and had huge 
statistical outputs, scoring double-
doubles once again. Dahle finished 
the match with 19 kills, 19 digs and 
22 points, and Wright followed only 
half a step behind, finishing with 19 
kills, 18 digs and 21 points. They 
both were able to contribute to four 
blocks apiece, with Dahle being 
credited for two solos as well. 
Senior middle blocker Kameron 
Cooper also dominated, scoring 
20.5 points on 17 kills and six blocks, 
with one being credited as a solo. 
Seaberry finished the night with 
seven blocks, and Sierks amassed 52 
assists along with 20 digs. 
The net was highly prioritized during the game, with Sonoma 
State totalling 16 blocks and UCSD 
ending with 14 blocks. 
“If we can figure out how to finish 
off some of those close matches, 
they’ll get the confidence that they 
can beat anyone, ” Luyties told the 
UCSD Athletics Department. “We 
have to put this behind us because 
we have Cal Poly Pomona coming 
up, and they’re playing as well as 
anyone in the conference. ”
UCSD will be hosting three 
CCAA teams this upcoming week 
for the second time this season: Cal 
Poly Pomona on Oct. 6, Cal State 
East Bay on Oct. 9 and San Francisco 
State on Oct. 10, all starting at 7 p.m.Tritons to Host T hree CCAA Opponents
▶ W. VOLLEYBALL,  from page 12
readers can contact
Gurkira t Singh  gsingh@ucsd.edu readers can contact
Ka tie Potts   kpotts@ucsd.edu 
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE /GUARDIAN
PHOTO BY CARINA CORNEJO /GUARDIANSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
MARCUS  THUILLIER
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 5, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
In last week’s outing against the 
UCLA Bruins football team, ABC’s 
cameras showed the University of 
Arizona Wildcats perform a pre-game 
haka — the “Ka Mate” — a tradition 
that traces back to 2009 when the 
Wildcats first performed it to honor 
the Polynesian heritage of some of the 
players on the team. Paying tribute 
to Polynesian culture is an honorable 
gesture, but something feels wrong 
when certain players who have no tie 
to the Maori culture — in this case, 
American Samoan-born Lene Maiava, 
the leader, and Hawaiian-born Sani 
Fuimaono, the performer, from the 
Wildcats — lead and perform the Ka 
Mate, which the New Zealand All 
Blacks popularized to honor that 
culture specifically.
Indeed, on Thursday, the 
Wildcats Athletics Department 
released a statement saying, “We’ve 
been made aware that a segment of 
the population is unhappy that the 
haka is being performed. As a result, 
we have decided to discontinue the 
activity. … Moving forward, the uni -
versity [is] now planning to identify 
other alternatives that would provide 
an outlet for their Polynesian student 
athletes to showcase the heritage they 
are so proud of. ”
The Arizona Daily Star reported 
that this move has been prompted 
by the outcry of a Cal State 
Northridge associate professor, 
originally from New Zealand, who 
started a petition. “The professor 
said to a New Zealand news orga -
nization that Arizona’s rendition 
is ‘a mess, and it’s an affront to me 
as a Kiwi that they’re doing this,     
especially that it’s Ka Mate. ’”
There is a very specific issue with 
the haka: Although cultural integra -
tion should be promoted and players 
from Polynesian descent have a right 
to promote their culture, the actual Ka 
Mate haka must be reserved to players 
of Maori descent. Popularized by a 
team with direct connection to Maori 
heritage and always led by a Maori 
player, the Ka Mate is very specific to 
the this culture.
When led by a Maori player — like 
at Brigham Y oung University by Bryce 
Mahuika, the grandson of the chief 
of a Maori tribe — it makes perfect 
sense. But when it is a Polynesian 
player leading it, especially from an 
American Samoan like at Arizona, it 
is not cultural integration anymore 
but cultural appropriation. Samoa, Fiji 
and Tonga all have their own versions 
of the haka in the Siva Tau, the Cibi 
and the Sipi Tau. Heck, even the All 
Blacks created the new haka “Kapa o 
Pango” — roughly translated to “ All 
Blacks” — meant only for that team, 
as a representation of their identity.
Bottom line: Performing the haka 
and paying tribute to Polynesian 
culture is great, especially in the 
United States where Polynesians lack 
representation. But in doing so, I’ d 
rather see hakas, like the one from the 
University of Hawaii, sung entirely in 
Hawaiian rather than a roughed-up 
version of the oh so emblematic “Ka 
Mate” led by a non-Maori player. Distasteful 
Performance 
of  “Ka Mate” 
at Arizona
Marcus Thuillier
mthuilli@ucsd..eduthis  week  in  sports       
Strong Results at Regionals
Scott and Mosser on to Nationals
WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL
Tritons Lose Back-to-Back Road Games
UCSD goes up two sets to one in both games before suffering crushing defeats.  
This past week was an ordeal 
for the UCSD women’s volleyball 
team as they were defeated both 
Thursday and Saturday nights on 
the road, losing to Humboldt State 
and Sonoma State, respectively, in 
very close five-set matches. After 
these losses, the Tritons’ season 
record fell to 8–7 overall and 4–3 
in the California Collegiate Athletic 
Association, tying them for fifth 
place in the CCAA. 
Game One
The loss to Humboldt State was 
a rough one for the Tritons, as this 
was the first time they had ever 
blemished their record against the Lumberjacks. In 19 games, this was 
the first time the Lumberjacks were 
able to take down the Tritons. The 
Tritons fell in five sets: 19–25, 26–
24, 21–25, 25–22 and 15–13. 
The Tritons came out strong as 
they were able to take home the first 
and third sets. The Lumberjacks 
stole the second game after an 
incredibly disputed set and fought 
hard to win the fourth and fifth sets. 
The fifth and final set was highly 
competitive, with strong input from 
both teams tying the set at 13–13. 
The Lumberjacks were able to pull 
through and win with back-to-back 
kills to end the match. 
“We had trouble giving up 
leads; there were too many runs of 
points by Humboldt that we didn’t 
stop, ” UCSD Head Coach Ricci 
Luyties told the UCSD Athletics 
Department. “We need to figure out 
how to get out of those situations 
and stay poised when teams are 
making good plays against us. ”
Junior outside hitter Meagan 
Wright brought the heat for the 
Tritons as she led with 19 digs, 
19 kills and 20.5 points, all team-
highs for the night. Seniors setter 
Heidi Sierks and senior outside 
hitter Danielle Dahle followed with double-doubles of their own, with 50 
assists and 11 digs and 15 kills and 
18 digs, respectively. Sophomore 
middle blocker Alyssa McNeely 
contributed with 10 kills, and fellow 
sophomore middle blocker Rebecca 
Seaberry finished with five block 
assists. 
The game was extremely close in 
terms of points and sets, and neither 
team hit all that well with Humboldt 
State at 0.157 (62–31–197) and 
UCSD at 0.155 (63–33–193). This 
was also UCSD’s second five-set 
outing this season, having first lost 
in a five-set match to Point Loma in 
early September.
Game Two
UCSD’s next game on the road, 
played on Saturday night against 
Sonoma State, was also a similar 
disappointment as the Tritons lost 
in another five-set match. The sets 
were even closer this time, with 
scores resulting in 28–26, 21–25, 
21–25, 25–22 and 15–12, in favor of 
Sonoma State. 
“It was a tough road trip, losing 
two five-set matches, ” Luyties told the 
UCSD Athletics Department. “I feel 
like all of our losses this year have been 
matches that we had chances to win.”Cal State Los Angeles hosted the United States Tennis Association/
International Tennis Association West Regional Championships from 
Thursday through Saturday. UCSD’s senior Kyra Scott and junior Britta 
Mosser were the only Tritons to qualify for Nationals. Scott reached 
the semi-finals on the women’s side, while senior Axel Bouillin came in 
second in the men’s singles and reached the semi-finals in the doubles 
paired with senior JP Boyd.
No. 1 seed Scott and Mosser beat juniors Kelsey Markle and Layla 
Accorsi of Concordia University, 8–0, after a first-round bye, and 
reached the semi-finals after an 8–3 win over Azusa Pacific’s team of Lilit 
Vardanyan and Schneider. In the semis, they defeated sophomore Regina 
van Koch and freshman Nikki Newell from Point Loma 8–5 and ended up 
taking the title after another 8–5 win over Sonoma State’s Jensyn Warren 
and sophomore Jordyn Kearney. This victory avenges their finals’ defeat 
from last year at the same tournament. 
“[It is a] huge accomplishment winning the 
doubles against some very strong teams, ” 
UCSD Head Coach Liz LaPlante told the 
UCSD Athletics Department. “We 
were the No. 1 seed, and [Scott and 
Mosser] had lost in the finals last 
year. ”
In singles, Scott reached 
the semi-finals before being 
defeated by APU sophomore 
Natalie Johnson in three sets, 
1–6, 6–3 and 7–6. Another 
Triton, Jasmine Hosseini, 
reached the quarter-finals 
before Academy of Art’s 
By   G u r k i r a t  S i n g h
Senior Staff Writer
See WOMEN’S VOLLEYBALL , page 11Annika Schneider also eliminated her in three sets, 3–6, 6–2 and 10–4.
“I’m very impressed with the overall performance of the team, 
specifically Kyra Scott and Jasmine Hosseini in the singles, ” LaPlante told the 
UCSD Athletics Department. “Kyra lost in three sets in the semis to the eventual 
winner, and Jasmine lost in a close three setter in the quarters. ”
On the men’s side, Bouillin reached the final but was defeated by top-seeded Jan 
Meyer from APU. Bouillin used a bye in the round of 64 and won over other APU 
competitors Roberto Luconi, sophomores Alan Leahy and Pascal Engel and Point Loma 
Nazarene University’s Andre Staab to reach the final. 
Two other Tritons, sophomores Eric Tseng and Justin Zhang, reached the quarter-
finals but lost to APU’s Meyer and Holy Names’ Matt Halligan, respectively.
In the men’s doubles, Bouillin and Boyd came up short in the semi-finals against 
APU’s Meyer and Engel, losing 8-4. 
As the West Region’s doubles champions, Scott and Mosser get to advance to the 
USTA/ITA National Small College Championships, held on Oct. 15 to Oct. 18 at the 
Palmetto Tennis Center in Sumter, South Carolina. All eight regional champions from 
the NCAA Division II and III, NAIA and Junior/Community Colleges will attend the event.
readers can contact
Marcus Thuillier  mthuilli@ucsd.edu 
19 26 21 25 15
28 21 21 25 15UCSD
UCSDHumboldt State
           Sonoma State25 24 25 21 13
26 25 25 22 12
week  in
summar y
UCSD had won its 
first 18 games against 
the Lumberjacks 
before losing on 
Thursday.
Junior transfer (from 
San Francisco State) 
outside hitter 
Meagan Wright is the 
10th honoree for San Diego Hall 
of Champions Star of the Month 
for the 2015 calendar year from 
UCSD.
No. 1 seed duo, 
senior Kyra 
Scott and junior 
Britta Mosser, 
won the doubles at 
the USTA/ITA West Regional 
Championship and advance to 
the USTA/ITA National Small 
College Championships.
Senior Axel Bouillin 
was the runner-up 
in the singles for the 
West Region, narrowly 
missing the cut for Nationals after 
losing to the No. 1 seed.18
10
1
2
PHOTO BY JONATHAN GAO /GUARDIANPHOTO BY NHAN NGUYEN 
/GUARDIANW. Volleyball
M. Waterpolo
M. Soccer
W. Soccer
W. Volleyball  10/6
  10/8
  10/9
  10/9
  10/9VS Cal Poly Pomona
AT California Baptist
VS CSU Monterey Bay
VS CSU Monterey Bay
VS CSU East BayUPCOMING
UCSD
GAMES