VOLUME 48, ISSUE 59  MONDAY , JUNE 1, 2015 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
CLOSURE ON UAG 
CLOSING?
DESPITE ADMINISTRATORS’ 
HESITANCY TO DISCUSS THE 
CLOSURE OF THE UNIVERSITY 
ART GALLERY, A FORMER 
DIRECTOR SHARES THE 
CAMPUS’ ATTITUDES AGAINST 
TRADITIONAL ART.
POLLUTION  SOLUTION
GUARDIAN  PREDICTIONSkeeping  st a tes  account able
Tritons  a thletics  a t  it  againopinion,  P age   4
SPORTS,  P age  12
MONDAY 
H 68 L 59TUESDAY 
H 71 L 59
WEDNESDAY
H 71 L 59THURSDAY 
H 70 L 59
FORECAST
VERBATIM
“FEA TURES,  P AGE  6
PHOTO COURTESY OF ERIKA JOHNSON 
University 
Contributes 
Funds to TV 
DocumentarySAN DIEGO CAMPUS
The National Geographic 
program included a segment 
on CAL-CAB and a brief 
commercial about UCSD.
B Y  Josh Lefler
Contributing Writer
See NATGEO , page 3The administration at UCSD paid 
$100,000 for an advertising plug on 
National Geographic’s television 
documentary series “World’s Smart 
Cities” last month.
The promotional documentary, 
which focused on the city of San 
Diego, aired on April 25, 2015, putting 
a spotlight on the city’s tourism 
industry and its burgeoning cultural                   
and tech scenes.
The university’s offer was added on 
to the city’s $1.5 million contribution 
toward the film’s financing, a sum 
agreed upon by city authorities and the 
National Geographic production team.
UCSD’s $100,000 sum went 
toward a segment centered on the 
school’s California Center for Algae 
Biotechnology, along with a 30-second 
commercial vignette focusing 
on UCSD as the city’s symbolic 
representation of the classical element 
“fire” — the passion for knowledge.
CAL-CAB received attention 
from news outlets earlier this month, 
including the UCSD Guardian, 
following its development of sustainable                                           
surfboards produced from algae.
UCSD administration and the city 
tourism authority have been working 
out a deal for over a year. A contract 
dated May 15, 2015, describes the 
documentary as being “focused on 
presenting [San Diego] as an important 
knowledge-based entrepreneurial city, 
one with the capability to sustain itself 
with the capacity and talent to grow in 
the 21[st] century. ”
Chancellor Khosla expressed 
interest in the project, according to 
an email sent last June from Associate 
Chancellor Clare Kristofco to the 
university’s financial office. 
“[Khosla] wants us to participate 
in this, so I’ve signed this document” 
wrote Kristofco, speaking on behalf of 
the chancellor. 
Kristofco billed the sum as an 
advertising expenditure in the same 
email. “[The $100,000] is ultimately 
going to need to be wrapped into 
advertising costs, rather than from [the 
chancellor’s] office. ”
To aid in raising the agreed $1.5 Undocumented Student 
Center Hosts Grand Opening
UCSD students and staff celebrated the grand 
opening of the Undocumented Student 
Services Center last Thursday, May 21. 
The center — which will provide undocumented 
students assistance with legal, housing and school-
related issues — is located on the fifth floor of the 
Student Services Center. 
Vice Chancellor of Student Affairs Juan 
Gonzalez gave the event’s welcoming address, in 
which he thanked UC President Janet Napolitano 
for her efforts in making the center possible.                                       
Gonzalez continued by acknowledging the 
Undocumented Student Services Center as a product 
of student advocacy.
“Y our voices were the methodology of moving this 
agenda forward, ” Gonzalez said. “I applaud, I thank 
and I praise that student advocacy for your efforts. ”
The program continued with remarks from 
graduating undocumented undergraduate and 
graduate students.
Eleanor Roosevelt College senior Bruno 
Rosales Huizar Jr. stated that he would not thank 
the University of California for its assistance 
in establishing the new center. Huizar pointed 
out that during Napolitano’s time as secretary of 
the Department of Homeland Security, the U.S. 
government deported 2 million people, one of 
whom was his father.
“When I was 15, my father was deported, ” Huizar 
said. “I can’t even begin to describe the suffering my 
family has endured because of this woman who will 
now sign all of our degrees. ”
Huizar is one of several students who participated 
in civil disobedience to protest Napolitano’s 
appointment as UC president.
Second-year graduate student Jessica Lee 
described the increased support she has seen for undocumented students while completing her 
undergraduate and graduate degrees at UCSD.
“The faculty members and staff have not only 
listened to my stories but have gone over and 
beyond to fight for my rights and speak up for 
things that I couldn’t speak up for myself, ” Lee said.
Following the brief remarks from students, ERC 
senior Avril Prakash presented a Congressional 
Proclamation on behalf of Rep. Scott Peters (D) to 
UCSD.
After Gonzalez accepted the proclamation on 
behalf of the university, UCSD Class of 2008 alumna 
Grecia Lima spoke about a number of issues facing 
UCSD students, including the increasing amount of 
debt they face upon graduation.  
When asked about the change in attitude toward 
undocumented students at UCSD, Lima told the 
UCSD Guardian that, although it has become more 
accommodating overall, undocumented students 
continue to face significant challenges in financing 
their education.  
“There is still a long way, like many students 
mentioned, especially when undocumented students 
are continuing to have a great challenge in financing 
their studies on campus, ” Lima said. 
Lima also recalled that when undocumented 
students started organizing during her undergraduate 
studies, their objective was to obtain equal access to 
higher education. According to Lima, this is still their 
objective today, regardless of undocumented status.
On the subject of Napolitano, Lima told the 
Guardian that she is more focused on the students who 
are in front of her.
“I think Napolitano holds some power, but students 
hold the most power, ” Lima said. “What’s important 
for me is what are students saying and how are they 
making change. ”  B y Maria  sebas    Staff writer
Maria Sebas   msebas@ucsd.edu readers can contact
       Photo by Thiba Thiagarajan / UCSD Guardian
THIS 
MENTALITY ... 
UNDERVALUES 
THE ROLE OF 
THE ASSUMED-
FEMALE 
PARTNER 
THROUGH SOCIETAL 
EXPECTATIONS.  [WOMEN’S] WORK 
IS SEEN AS THE NORM, AND MALE 
WORK IS VIEWED WITH INDULGENT 
APPRECIATION. ”
-Vincent Pham
Boy, Interrupted
OPINION , PAGE 4
new energy to San Diego and also 
connect our strengths with Japan. 
In this sense, our Japan initiative 
complements already-existing 
programs at GPS that focus on 
China and Korea, as well as on 
emerging economies, ” Schaede 
said. “GPS, the School for Global 
Policy and Strategy, is a premier 
graduate school in this country 
with a focus on the Pacific Rim, and JFIT will become an additional 
pillar to [the] support and further                        
[growth of] this strength. ”
Cowhey mentioned research 
questions that the forum hopes to 
answer, such as, “How will Japan’s 
efforts to rejuvenate growth come 
to rely more on the basic science 
done in the U.S.?” and “What 
policies and institutions would best 
promote the mutual goals of the two 
countries in regard to innovation?” 
Campus departments, including the Jacobs School of Engineering, 
the Rady School of Management 
and the School of Medicine, seek 
to answer these questions by                      
partnering with JFIT.
“We anticipate that other 
foundations and companies will 
contribute to JFIT over time, ” 
Cowhey explained. “This is a period 
of renewed strength for many 
Japanese companies, and there is 
a widespread view in Japan that 
its leadership should invest in programs that renew and strengthen 
the ties between our two countries. 
Japan and the U.S. have a bilateral 
relationship that requires constant 
attention to basic questions of 
policy and to investing in students 
and researchers who are interested 
in these questions. ”2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JUNE 1, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG N EWS
DIGITAL MONKEYS By Jeff Lau
Registration for SPRING Qtr is NOW open!
Register online at 
as.ucsd.edu/saferides
A.S. Safe Rides allows registered undergraduate 
stude nts to get 3 FREE rides per quarter.
Stude nts must register at least 24 hours
prior to their first ride. A.S. Safe Rides 
asucsd asucsd
#OMG 
#LIKE US
#FOLLOW US
@ucsdguar dianResearchers at the UCSD Cen -
ter for Aerosol Impacts on Climate 
and the Environment recently found 
a direct correlation between marine 
bacteria’s consumption of phyto -
plankton to properties of clouds. The 
discovery was made during research 
observing airborne marine particle 
contribution to cloud formation at 
the Scripps Institution of Oceanogra -
phy and was published in American 
Chemical Society Central Science on 
May 18.
The findings confirmed an oce -
anic factor as a determinant to the 
properties of temperature-moder -
ating clouds. Previous studies had 
reported that phytoplankton are chief 
drivers of the organic content in sea 
spray, yet similar studies were not 
able to produce consistent observa -
tions. In an interview with the UCSD Guardian, CAICE researcher Camille 
Sultana discussed the significance of 
being able to resolve the uncertainty 
around this topic.
“We discovered that enzymatic 
activity of bacteria influences if and 
how much organic matter will be in 
submicron sea-spray aerosols and 
that the amount of organic super -
micron sea-spray aerosols follows a 
completely different temporal trend 
than submicron sea-spray aero -
sols, ” Sultana said. “This is really 
important because there is a lot of 
disagreement in the scientific com -
munity as to whether chlorophyll-a 
concentrations in the seawater can 
be used to predict the chemical                                                                 
composition of sea-spray aerosol. ”
The research conducted to 
lead to these conclusions utilized 
a 3,400-gallon, mechanically wave-
generating, natural seawater envi -
ronment derived from the Califor -
nian coast. Sultana expanded on how the team employed this equip -
ment to determine microbial effects 
in the seawater. 
”By illuminating the wave chan -
nel and adding some nutrients, our 
goal was to induce a phytoplankton 
bloom, ” Sultana said. “We didn’t just 
have phytoplankton in there but 
all the microbes that are naturally 
in seawater, such as heterotrophic 
bacteria and viruses, and we wanted 
to see if they also influenced the 
changing chemistry. ”
However, the research was 
not without its problems. Sultana 
explained that there were obstacles 
that occurred during their investi -
gation into the ocean microbes.
”Many of our collaborators were 
not from San Diego and couldn’t 
stay here indefinitely, ” Sultana said. 
“Therefore, it was very nerve wrack -
ing, as we really didn’t know if it was 
going to work or not. ”
The research conclusions were that variations in specific microbes 
in bloom affected concentrations of 
less water-soluble molecules within 
seawater. Sultana clarified the sig -
nificance of bacteria to concurrent 
and future applications due to the 
widespread use of chlorophyll-a.
“[Our results are] very impor -
tant, as many global models right 
now use chlorophyll-a to calculate 
the amount of organic matter in 
sea-spray aerosols, and our results 
show that bacterial activity also 
must be taking into consideration 
to do this accurately, ” Sultana said. 
“Not only will our results influence 
how global models are parameter -
ized but it could also affect what 
measurements field studies take in                
the future and how they  design 
their experiments. ”SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
Results showed that unconsumed phytoplankton may decompose into molecules that facilitate cloud formation.
B Y  Simon Yu
Contributing WriterScientists Find Link Between Ocean Bacteria and Atmosphere
Simon Yu   siy007@ucsd.edu readers can contact
Cassia  Pollock  chpolloc@ucsd.edu readers can contactUCSD Schools of  Medicine, Business and Engineering to Collaborate with New GPS Forum
▶ JAPAN,  from page 3The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and 
Thursdays during the academic year by UCSD students 
and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this 
newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, 
without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2015, all 
rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible 
for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The 
views expressed herein do not necessarily represent 
the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of 
California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is 
funded by advertising. Vincent dates himself.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Editor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
  
Associate News Editor
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Social Media Coordinator
Training and Development
Page Layout
Allison Kubo
Distribution
Christopher Graves, Josef Goodyear, Vincent Pham
Copy Readers
Andrew Chao, Caroline Lee, Sage Schubert Christian, Marissa 
Barber, Heejung Lim
Editorial Assistants
Shelby Newallis, Karly Nisson, Mario Attie, Katie Potts,
 Allison Kubo, Jacky To  Aleksandra Konstantinovic
Andrew E. Huang  
Taylor Sanderson
Tina Butoiu
Kriti Sarin
Cassia Pollock
Marcus Thuillier
Teiko Yakobson
Jacqueline Kim
Kyle Somers
Nilu Karimi
Siddharth Atre
Jonathan Gao
Joselynn Ordaz
Sherman Aline
Elyse Yang
Annie Liu
Rosina Garcia
Jennifer Grundman
Laura Chow
Vincent PhamN EWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JUNE 1, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
ACGC 2015:
The Ha/p_pieﬆ Hou/r.end
FRIDAY , JUNE 12
5:00-8:00PM • RIMAC FIELD
DANIEL ZUKER
With Gueﬆ Speake/r.end
Executive Producer of  ABC’s Modern Family
for more information, visit seniors.ucsd.edumillion, the San Diego Regional 
Economic Development Corporation 
scheduled media junkets in London 
and Tokyo to garner support from 
international companies with a 
business presence in San Diego as well 
as UCSD alumni. 
The hour-long television 
documentary explored the San Diego 
lifestyle and its draws, from SeaWorld 
and the craft breweries to the city’s rise 
as a national leader in biotechnology, 
with surf culture thrown in between.
When asked to contribute to the 
publicly-funded road show, the UCSD 
administration declined, according to 
a Feb. 10, 2015 email from Kristofco to 
Lauree Sahba, chief operating officer of the San Diego Regional EDC.
“We very much appreciate 
the opportunity for an additional 
sponsorship. ...However,our 
commitment of $100,000 to support 
the making of the show is the extent 
to which we are able to support, ” the 
email read.
Despite declining to fund the 
trips to London and Tokyo, UCSD 
sent Jacobs School of Engineering 
Dean Al Pisano to Tokyo to promote 
the segment.
National Geographic has 
selected only three other cities 
for its acclaimed “World’s Smart 
Cities” series. According to the San 
Diego Tourism Authority website, 
the city was selected to participate 
because of “its strong technology sector, local innovators, green 
practices, smart public planning 
and an unparalleled quality of life. ” 
The website cited population size 
and cultural diversity as additional 
reasons for the selection.
San Diego is the only U.S. city 
to appear on the show, with some 
others being Bucharest, Romania; 
Adelaide, Australia; and Durban, 
South Africa. 
National Geographic aired the 
documentary to an international 
audience, reaching over 60 countries 
and approximately 250 million 
households worldwide.LIGHTS & SIRENSLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edu.
Friday, May 15
1:06 a.m.: Welfare Check
Reporting party in the Revelle 
College apartments concerned 
about possible suicidal text 
messages received from friend. 
Field interview.
8:16 a.m.: Threats
Female student making threats 
toward UNEX-E staff members via 
email. Information only.
2:20 p.m.: Suspicious Person
Unknown suspect entered a Main 
Gym locker room and exposed 
himself to the victim while 
masturbating. Report taken.
Saturday, May 16
2:37 a.m.: DUI & Collision with 
Injury
An intoxicated male crashed his 
motorcycle near Genesee Avenue. 
Closed by adult arrest.
11 p.m.: Vandalism
Unknown suspect scratched curse 
words into a Village East resident’s 
door, causing $500 in damages. 
Report taken. 
11:16 p.m.: Excessive Drugs
A young adult male in Ledden 
Auditorium was breathing but 
unresponsive.  Transported to 
hospital.
Sunday, May 17
12:45 a.m.: Information
San Diego Police broke up a party 
at a location with approximately 
300+ guests, mostly UCSD 
students. Information only.
2:08 a.m.: Excessive Alcohol
An intoxicated male was in and out 
of consciousness and vomiting near 
Lot P406. Transported to hospital.Monday, May 18
7:10 a.m.: Hazard Situation
Reporting party almost hit by 
another vehicle due to a closed 
lane without traffic control from 
construction workers. Checks OK.
Tuesday, May 19
12:09 a.m.: Medical Aid
An adult female at the Rita 
Atkinson Residences experienced 
severe nausea and vomiting. 
Transported to hospital.
2:10 p.m.: Excessive Drugs
Report of an adult male frantically 
stumbling around Library Walk, 
possibly under the influence of a 
controlled substance. Transported 
to hospital.
7:45 p.m.: Drunk Driving
Report of possibly intoxicated 
female driving and swerving in and 
out of lanes. Unable to locate. 
10:05 p.m.: Sexual Battery
Male suspect ran behind female 
and groped her from behind. 
Report taken.
Wednesday, May 20
7:53 a.m.: Collision with Injury
A vehicle hit a motorcycle, followed 
by a three-car collision due to 
motorists following too closely. 
Report taken.
8:30 a.m.: Petty Theft
Several unattended textbooks 
worth $299.82 were stolen from a 
student workstation at the Mesa 
Apartments. Report taken.
— ANDREW E. HUANG
Managing EditorAdministrators Sent School of  Engineering Dean on Promotional Trip 
▶ NATGEO,  from page 1UCSD recently launched the 
Japan Forum for Innovation and 
Technology in an effort to increase 
communication and teamwork 
between Japan and California. The 
new forum will provide a bridge 
between scholars to encourage 
international sharing and 
collaboration and will be located 
in the School of Global Policy and 
Strategy, which was previously 
known as the School of International 
Relations and Pacific Studies. 
JFIT Executive Director and 
GPS Japanese Business Professor 
Ulrike Schaede told the UCSD 
Guardian that the forum seeks to 
promote Japanese studies and will 
provide a bridge between scholars to encourage international sharing and 
collaboration.
“In terms of student involvement, 
JFIT aims to create a vibrant Japan 
research and exchange community 
on campus, one that attracts and 
connect students and faculty 
interested in contemporary Japan, ” 
Schaede said.
The establishment of JFIT was 
financed by a donation of $300,000 
from Broadband Tower Inc., a 
Japanese information technology 
firm. Entrepreneur Hiroshi 
Fujiwara leads the company. While 
he is currently involved with 
the program at GPS, Fujiwara is 
expected to contribute new business 
models centered around his idea of 
“Industry 4.0. ” This will entail the 
exploration of innovative practices 
such as 3-D printing and wireless 
connectivity, in addition to other technological developments.
There are at least five student-
run organizations and nine faculty 
members at UCSD with a Japan-
related focus on campus. GPS 
Dean Peter Cowhey said, “Students 
will participate in research 
programs organized by JFIT 
and in conferences.  And, in the 
case of our school, many of our 
graduates already live and work in 
Japan. JFIT will further strengthen                         
these connections. ” 
“ As Prime Minister [Shinzo 
Abe] has put it, ‘Japan is Back, ’” 
Schaede said. “ After many years of 
restructuring and reorganization, 
Japanese companies are emerging 
with new global competitive 
strength. ” 
“Our center aims to bring this GPS Opens Global Forum for Japanese Studies
Japanese IT company Broadband Tower Inc. donated $300,000 to fund the program.
B Y cassia Pollock
Opinion EditorINTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
See JAPAN , page 2
Josh  Lefler jlefer@ucsd.edu readers can contact4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JUNE 1, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CASSIA  POLLOCK
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
“There are these two young 
fish swimming along, 
and they happen to meet 
an older fish swimming the other way 
who nods at them and says, ‘Morning 
boys, how’s the water?’ The fish swim 
on until one of them looks at the other 
and goes, ‘What the hell is water?’”
This is from a viral Upworthy 
video interpretation of the late David 
Foster Wallace’s commencement 
speech to Kenyon College in 2005. 
Wallace continues: “The most obvious, 
important realities are often the ones 
that are hardest to see and talk about. 
Stated as an English sentence, of 
course, this is just a banal platitude. ”
And we’ll stop him there at this 
concept of “important realities” and a 
“banal platitude. ” Now, you might ask, 
how does a college commencement 
speech come into play with gender 
norms? Two words: male privilege.
This concept is undoubtedly a 
reality in the United States, yet males 
tend to be the most myopic. In “White 
Privilege: Unpacking the Invisible 
Knapsack, ” author and Wellesley 
College professor Peggy McIntosh 
argues that, like white privilege, males 
are simply not taught to recognize 
male privilege. Rather, males are 
taught the disadvantages women face 
— a banal platitude — rather than the 
privilege facing men. As a result, men 
may argue in favor of improving the 
lives of women by raising them to the 
standard of men’s lives, rather than 
lessening a man’s societal values to be 
equal with women’s. This privilege, as 
McIntosh describes it in the context 
of white privilege (but conveyable to 
male), can be seen “as an invisible 
package of unearned assets that [men] 
can count on cashing in each day but 
about which [men were] ‘meant’ to 
remain oblivious. ”
Barry Deutsch, a cartoonist from 
Oregon, responded to McIntosh’s essay 
with “The Male Privilege Checklist, ” 
acknowledging the cluelessness of 
male privilege. Deutsch lists 43 exam -
ples of male privilege. For instance, 
number 11 states, “If I have children 
and provide primary care for them, I’ll 
be praised for extraordinary parent -
ing if I’m even marginally competent. ” 
This mentality still resonates in our 
culture, and undervalues the role of 
the assumed-female partner through 
societal expectations. Thus her work 
is seen as the norm, and male work is 
viewed with indulgent appreciation. 
But let’s look at the inverse — is a male 
staying at home to rear his children 
seen any differently? I would argue 
yes. A male fulfilling that role may be 
emasculated by his male peers and 
belittled for not maintaining his status 
as the “bread-winner” and his “mascu -
line role” in the household.
Here male privilege is seen as less 
of a privilege and more of a founda -
tion for disaster. There is not only a 
patriarchal structure causing inequal -
ity for women but also for men.  By 
viewing women’s oppression as a banal 
platitude, this in turn dismisses the 
significant impacts of gender inequal -
ity on men. Social construction harms 
both genders to a varied extent but 
continues to exist under the dominant 
male belief that men have nothing 
to gain from dismantling their own 
privilege. In actuality, both women 
and men would be liberated by diverg -
ing from society’s rigidly controlled 
definition of masculinity.The Absurd 
Banality of  
Women’s 
Oppression
See POLLUTION, page 5Global Negligence
Frequent destruction of  the environment through careless mistakes, 
such as the recent oil spills in Santa Barbara and Mexico, 
demonstrates the need for international oversight of  pollution.
B Y a y a t  amin   senior staff writer
A democratic government is one “of the people, by the people, for the 
people. ” President Abraham Lincoln knew this, and ideally, this would be 
immutably true. Regardless of racial, social and financial classification, 
everybody who lives in this democratic country is one of those people 
whom Lincoln refers to, and it follows that the composition of the 
government should be determined by every single one of us to some 
degree. That does not mean that non-citizens should be allowed to vote, 
but it does mean, in the most basic sense, that they should be counted 
and recognized as fellow residents of the nation.
The terrible truth about American voting and government is that the 
majority of legal citizens are not truly represented by those they elect. 
In a 2014 study conducted by political science professors at Princeton 
and Northwestern University, it was determined that the influence of 
“ordinary Americans” on policy outcomes is at a “non-significant, near-
zero level. ” In this sense, it is preposterous to contest that jurisdictional 
populations should be based upon the number of eligible voters instead 
of the total population. Those citizens who brought the case to court 
know as well as anybody else that reclassification of this kind will not 
make the government any more representative of the country as a whole.
This latest redistributive effort is little more than veiled 
gerrymandering. It is no secret that, should this shift be enacted toward 
a count of potential voters instead of total population, American citizens 
in rural areas would benefit, gaining more voting power relative to 
urban areas populated by a greater proportion of non-citizens. It is 
not a coincidence that those in rural areas are much more likely to 
vote Republican. As a consequence, not only would non-citizens be 
entirely disenfranchised in the voting system but they would also be 
systematically devalued and persecuted as scapegoats by the resultant 
Republican mindset.
—  SAM THOBURN 
Senior Staff WriterNew Policy Would SkewVoters’ Representation And 
Result In Little More Than Veiled Gerrymandering
QUICK TAKESTHE SUPREME COURT AGREED TO RECONSIDER THE MEANING OF THE “ONE PERSON, ONE VOTE” POLICY. THE RESULTS 
MAY ALTER VOTING DISTRICTS TO ONLY COUNT LEGALLY REGISTERED VOTERS INSTEAD OF TOTAL POPULATION.  
While only counting registered voters may seem intuitively fair, 
this law would disproportionately lower the amount of influence that 
minority groups, particularly Latinos, have to elect their preferred 
candidates. Aside from this, however, it is clear that the movement is 
first and foremost a power grab on behalf of Republicans. The upcoming 
Supreme Court case on the issue is being guided by Republican Ed 
Blum, who aims to make constitutional challenges to laws that show 
preference to minorities, according to the Washington Post. Blum is 
also pushing a second court case (Shelby County v. Holder), which 
challenges a pivotal section of the 1965 Voting Rights Act. In light of this 
apparent bias, one might conclude that the “problem” is not a problem 
at all; it’s actually another partisan-fueled debate over something 
that should not be debated (i.e., the legal results of the civil rights 
movement). If this isn’t reason enough to doubt the legitimacy of 
this case, the large-scale disenfranchisement of immigrant and other 
non-voting groups that this new voting system would cause should 
raise some alarm.
Data from the Pew Research Center shows that 77 percent of people 
who are “consistently liberal” favor urban communities, while 75 percent 
of “consistent conservatives” favor a more spacious lifestyle because 
they have greater influence in those areas. In other words, people live in 
places that match their politics. Pew also shows that ethnic diversity is 
more important to liberals than to conservatives. This demonstrates that 
immigrant groups may actually receive a kind of indirect representation 
by influencing the voting power of registered voters in their communities, 
who in turn are more likely to support their interests. The proposed shift 
in the way districts are counted would dilute the voting power of liberal 
urban districts, thus severely restricting minority influence.
 
—  HAILEY SANDEN
Senior Staff WriterChange In Voter’s Districts Would Benefit Conservatives, 
While Undermining Support for Minority GroupsAn international court for crimes against the environment is a 
necessary and important reform for our society. Our current 
influence on nature creates huge environmental tragedies that 
are too commonplace and harmful to be ignored. There must be a sys -
tem of prevention in place in order to reverse these devastating events. 
This court needs to be capable of holding individuals,  governments 
and corporations alike accountable. 
Our generation cannot take any more environmental disasters, yet 
such events remain frequent occurrences. Just look at oil spills. In 2014, 
roughly 4,000 tons of oil were spilled into the environment, according to 
the International Tanker Owners Pollution Federation Limited. The ITOPF 
reports that since 1970 there have been over 10,000 oil spills of ranging 
quantities. Just last week, there were two oil spills in U.S. oceans: one in 
Santa Barbara and one in the Gulf of Mexico close to Louisiana. These oil 
spills are detrimental to our environment and difficult to clean up. Ac -
cording to Conserve Energy Future, in 2010 the BP Deepwater Horizon 
Oil spill dumped 210 millions of gallons of oil into the Gulf of Mexico, an 
event which is credited with killing 8,000 animals, the majority of which         
were endangered. 
It’s bad enough that our planet is still feeling the effects of past oils spills, 
but new oil spills continue to occur. The Los Angeles Times reported that 
the Santa Barbara oil spill alone released 101,000 gallons of oil. There are few laws that enforce the safety of oil rigs, and those that exist are country-
specific and poorly enforced. One reason why the BP oil spill in 2010 was 
so bad was because it continuously spilled oil for 89 days, as reported by 
Conserve Energy Future. The reason the spill lasted so long was due to 
the fact that the emergency plan which was supposed to be enacted was 
deeply flawed. According to the news source Grist, instead of conducting a 
new safety plan specifically designed for the Gulf of Mexico, BP copied its 
outdated, inapplicable safety procedure which was actually written for the 
Arctic. Mark Davis, director of the Institute on Water Resources at Tulane 
University who investigated the incident, explained that the BP plan for the 
Gulf included “provisions for dealing with the impact on walruses. ” 
If anyone had bothered to rigorously safety-check the oil rig as the 
federally mandated provisions required, then they would have caught the 
ineffectiveness of the safety plan. With better safety inspections, not only 
can the damages from the oil spills be minimized, but in many cases they 
could have been prevented. During the legal case that emerged from the 
spill, it was revealed that BP had been bribing officials for years to overlook 
safety requirements so that it could quickly pass inspections. For profit’s 
sake, there was a deliberate indifference toward safety measures and a 
complacent acceptance of unnecessary risks.
 Furthermore, that’s only the situation in the United States. When an 
oil spill happens in other countries’ waters, legal action depends on their Vincent  pham 
vnp003@ucsd.eduboy, interrupted
ILLUSTRATION BY ANNIE LIUOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JUNE 1, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
laws. According to CounterSpill.org, 
the 1979 Atlantic Empress oil spill 
near Trinidad and Tobago resulted 
in few investigations and minor 
repercussions simply because it 
happened in a publically unknown 
place at a time when no one was 
paying attention. This event was the 
fifth largest oil spill in history, and 
no legal action was taken. 
This is why there needs to be an 
international court. These disasters 
happen all over the globe and affect 
the entire planet at once. Both ocean 
and wind currents let water flow 
from any one part of the world to 
another. An oil spill in the Gulf of 
Mexico can still have effects on South 
America. An even better example is 
the deliberate burning of oil fields during the Gulf War. As a war tactic, 
the Iraqi army purposely released 
and burnt the Kuwait oil fields so 
that its enemies would not have 
access to this resource. This released 
an absurd amount of carbon dioxide 
into the air at once, which is part of 
the reason why the smog in China 
continues to worsen. Air convection 
currents in that region of the Middle 
East blow winds through Asia, where 
they ultimately travel to China and 
end up circulating with Pacific Ocean 
air. It’s difficult to determine the 
worst consequences of these actions. 
The result of these deliberate events 
is that another country is suffering 
today for Iraq’s mistake, and nobody 
was held accountable.
Environmental tragedies are 
too commonplace and destructive to have no repercussions. Our 
generation cannot afford to allow any 
more harm against the environment. 
It’s time to create international 
laws to reflect this mentality. When 
atrocities were committed against 
humanity, the Nuremberg Trials 
were created to hold individuals 
responsible. Since crimes against 
humanity are considered worthy of 
an international court, there should 
also be an international court for 
crimes against the environment. 
The environment is necessary for 
our survival. With the creation of an 
international court, people around 
the globe would be able to more 
effectively take responsibility for the 
environment.
To start your transformation, get in touch today. 310.568.2366 or 866.503.5467 
gsep-recruitment@pepperdine.edu • gsep.pepperdine.eduTo transform lives. 
Her game plan: A Master 
of Arts in Education from Pepperdine.jane’sambition:
WORLDFRONT WINDOW By David Juarez
Every Country Must Be Held Accountable for Its Environmental Impacts
▶ POLLUTION,  from page 4LETTERS  TO  THE  EDITOR
Dear Editor: 
This is the second version of 
a letter I’ve written to respond to 
Tuesday’s column titled “Liberate 
Y ourself; Go Braless. ” In the first, 
I criticized the UCSD Guardian 
for publishing what I thought was 
very clearly an anonymous anti-
feminist tirade that completely 
misrepresented the “Free the 
Nipple” protest and suggested 
men should demonstrate support 
for gender equality by sexually 
harassing women.
Y et a series of emails with the 
editorial staff convinced me that 
I was misinformed. A piece that 
completely apes the language used 
by men’s rights activists leading up 
to the event was not, as I and others who’ve read the piece surmised, a 
“satire” summarized kindly as “lol 
feminism” or unkindly as “sexism 
is hilarious. ” Instead, it’s a satire of 
misogynists satirizing feminists. 
This brilliant meta-satire thus joins 
the illustrious ranks of the Koala, 
comedians who tell rape jokes, 
anons on 4chan and gamergate 
(“actually, it’s about ethics in 
journalism”) — all of whom must 
be clandestine Gloria Steinems in 
their heart-of-hearts. The column 
has truly opened my eyes, although 
I admit that I’m now confused 
about who the authentic trolls 
really are.
(Much of this letter is sarcastic 
in case that wasn’t clear. I’ll leave 
it to the reader to decide which 
position I am taking.)
                            - Rene Patnode
Ph.D. Student, Sociology
Dear Editor: 
I am writing to express my 
grievances with water management 
and resource allocation on campus. 
In the midst of the drought, I have 
noticed some steps being taken to 
reduce water consumption, like 
turning off the Revelle College 
fountain, and planting low-water 
using plants outside the Thurgood 
Marshall College advising office, 
but this is not enough. Some of the 
easiest ways to reduce water use 
are being ignored. For example, the 
sprinklers that water plants each 
night are watering the street more 
than the plants, which needs to be fixed. Simply altering the directions 
of the sprinklers could make a huge 
difference. There are also other 
running fountains around campus 
that could be shut off. Saving water 
is more of a priority than aesthetic. 
Likewise, the patches of lawn 
around campus, though beautiful, 
are water hogs and entirely 
unnecessary. Removing these lawns 
and replacing them with plants 
with little to no water consumption 
needs may be an investment to 
begin but would pay off in the long 
run. It is time for the students of 
UCSD to speak up and express 
how important it is to take these 
small steps to reducing our school’s 
impact on the drought. 
                    - Katrina Kennedy
Thurgood Marshall College,
FreshmanHow-T o Guru Is a 
“Brilliant Meta-Satire”
Management Must Take 
Steps T o Reduce Water 
Consumption on Campus
readers can contact
a y a t amin  a6amin@ucsd.edu6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JUNE 1, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
ALLISON  KUBO
features@ucsdguardian.org
ARTS 
FOR 
ART’S 
SAKE
Between summer 2014 and summer 2015, four of UCSD’s venues for artistic 
expression have either closed or are facing closure: Graffiti Hall, the Che Cafe, Porter’s 
Pub and now the University Art Gallery. While the campus administration has given 
clear reasoning for the closing of the first three, the circumstances involving the 
UAG’s indefinite suspension still aren’t being publicly discussed. However, a former 
assistant director of the UAG, Merete Kjaer, was willing to discuss the university’s 
ambivalence toward the gallery and the reason for its suspension.
Kjaer remarked that the gallery is unlikely to reopen soon unless enough public 
input changes faculty politics.
“When I was part of some of those early [committee] meetings, it was just like we 
were talking to people who weren’t really on our side, ” Kjaer said. “So I think a lot 
of it is just talk and going through the exercise of putting together a proposal with 
a committee that was probably predetermined from the beginning. Hearing from 
students could make a difference. ”
When asked specifically about the role of the proposed full-time staff member 
overseeing the gallery and the gallery’s closing, Dean of Arts and Humanities Cristina 
Della Coletta did not go into much detail.
“The proposal never made it to the division because the department did not reach 
consensus when they voted on the proposal, ” Della Coletta told the UCSD Guardian. 
“The department is the department of visual arts. The division is the division of arts 
and humanities, which I oversee. ”
During the last undergraduate exhibit, “Round But Square, ” when Della Coletta 
was asked to comment on whether or not the UAG was closing, she responded by 
saying that the gallery was on hold, insisting that its suspension is due to the art 
department’s inability to come to a consensus regarding its plans for next year. Della 
Coletta then immediately left the exhibit following her answer. She stated that she did 
not want to discuss personnel issues regarding the gallery, which would include the 
gallery staff that has been laid off.
Several members of the visual arts department declined to comment by press time. 
Kjaer noted the hesitancy for other department members to talk about the issue and 
encouraged them to speak out in order to keep the gallery open.
“I know other people are too scared to talk, and I don’t get it. I know I’m losing 
my job, and that makes me a little more fearless, but you have to speak up when bad 
decisions come along, ” Kjaer said. “ And even if you’re faculty, or even if you’re staff, 
a graduate student or whatever you are, you just can’t be afraid. Della Coletta isn’t 
royalty or some kind of queen. ” She’s a person who’s doing her job, but if you don’t 
agree, it’s important to speak up. ”
Julia Fernandez, a graduate student in the visual arts program, expressed her 
disappointment with the university’s priorities regarding art, along with its lack of 
transparency.
“It’s just really sad because most schools do have galleries and museums. I’m 
coming from UCLA as an undergraduate and they [have] a gallery and they [have] 
two museums, ” Fernandez said. “So for this going on here is very surprising and, in 
a way, kind of embarrassing for the school because it’s a reflection of the degree that 
we’re all getting here, as UCSD students, from a school that doesn’t really appreciate 
the arts. ”
Once the UAG closes, UCSD will be the only school in the UC system not to have 
an official university art gallery, aside from the Mandeville Annex Gallery and the 
Visual Art Graduate Gallery, which are located within different department buildings 
and are significantly smaller in size.
by  Kyle Somers 
Associate A&E Editor
with additional reporting by
Jacky To & Tina Butoiu
Continued on page 8PHOTO   BY DRUMIL DESAI /UCSD GUARDIAN
PHOTO  BY ERIKA JOHNSON / UCSD GUARDIAN
PHOTO  BY  SIDDHARTH ATRE / UCSD GUARDIANFEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JUNE 1, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
Drunk driving
Drunk driving
Drunk  driving
Every day, between 27 and 30 people in the United States die in vehicle 
crashes that involve a driver with BAC of over .08 percent.
 This amounts to one death every 51 minutes . 
Based on median healthy weights it takes:  Sobering facts about driving under the influence
3 drinks for women 
weighing 130 lbs.4 drinks for men 
weighing 160 lbs.
to reach the legal .08 blood alcohol content limit
 of fatal crashes involving drivers with BAC of over .08 
percent were 21 to 24 years old. 1/3 
17xINCREASED RISK 
for young drivers (ages 16 to 20) driving while intoxicated. STOP
drivers were arrested for driving under the 
influence of alcohol or narcotics in 2010.
That’s 1 percent of the 112 million self-reported episodes of alcohol-impaired driving among U.S. adults each year.Over
1.4 million POLICEIn 2013, over 10,000  people were killed and another 350,000  people were injured. 
2/3 of all fatalities occur among the impaired driver.
More than 100 countries have 
lowered the legal BAC from .08 to .05
Sobriety checkpoints consistently reduce 
alcohol-related crashes by up to 9%.Designed and compiled by Allison Kubo // Features Editor - Statisitcs from www.cdc.gov and huffingtonpost.com8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JUNE 1, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEA TURES
For more info, email Katie Hosch at runswimgal@gmail.com /  khosch@ucsd.edu or contact 805.901.1944JUNE 4 · 3-6PM
JUNE 4 · 3-6PM
SUN GOD LAWN
Bring it back to your childhood roots,
and join us in a bbq with polaroids,
carnival games, and bubbles!
Food includes hot dogs, hamburgers,
and vegetarian dishes! Bring It Back 
Bring It Back 
BBQ
BBQ
BEAR GARDEN
Senior Send-off
FREE FOR ALL UCSD UNDERGRADS
JUNE 5, 3-6 PM, RIMAC FIELD
All ages welcome
Free for UC San Diego undergrad students with valid student I.D. 
21+ bring valid government issued I.D. in addition to student I.D.For more information, please contact ASCE at avpconcerts@ucsd.edu
Churros
El TigreLittle
CaesarsDelicioso
Catering
Food TruckKettle
Masters 
Kettle Korn
Furthermore, the Visual Arts 
Gallery exemplifies this shift, starting 
with its location: the Structural and 
Materials Engineering building in 
Warren College as well as the Calit2, 
which is also a space emphasizing 
technology. Some individuals 
believe that pure art and its culture 
at UCSD is slowly losing priority to 
other art that incorporates scientific 
aspects. The UAG itself has had a 
strong emphasis on traditional art 
in the past, but as of late, it has been 
featuring exhibits with an emphasis 
on STEM fields.
Della Coletta’s affinity for 
combining art and science was 
established before she officially 
started her position as dean. 
“The simplistic view is that arts 
and humanities create subjective 
experiences, and the sciences deliver 
facts. This opposition slights both 
the humanities and the sciences, ” 
Della Coletta told the UCSD News Center in June 2014. “It is time to 
see these fields not as responding 
to dichotomous sets of disciplinary 
mandates but, rather, as sister arts 
or dispositions — different yet 
interconnected ways of approaching 
knowledge and of being in the world 
as partners and collaborators. We 
are contributors to the educational 
experience as a whole, and the path 
forward is one that imagines more 
capacious futures for the humanities, 
the arts and the sciences, together. ”
Still, Fernandez told the Guardian 
that the gallery’s closing affects 
students and sends a message to 
them that the university doesn’t have 
respect for the pure arts. 
“The gallery’s closing will 
especially affect the graduate 
students who depend on department 
funding, ” Fernandez said. “I 
know UCSD is mainly recognized 
for the sciences, but I think it’s 
important to have a well-rounded education for the undergraduate 
and graduate students. It shows 
even to my undergraduates how the 
arts are viewed at UCSD. It’s very 
disrespectful in a way. It’s an insult. ” 
Nonetheless, Della Coletta is 
optimistic that the status of the UAG 
will be resolved through thorough 
cooperation and discussion.
“I think a democratic process, 
and full faculty involvement of the 
kind we like to see in action at UC 
San Diego, is often time-consuming, 
always complex and often messy, ” 
Della Coletta told the San Diego 
City Beat in an article published on 
May 19. “But this is the foundation 
of collaborative action and I am 
always optimistic and confident that 
eventually a solution will be reached. ”
READERS CAN CONTACT 
Kyle Somers 
ksomers@ucsd.eduPHOTO BY SIDDHARTH ATRE / UCSD GUARDIAN Keep up 
with the 
latest at
ucsdguardian.org
  @ucsdguardian
Universtiy Art Gallery Faces Indefinite Closure Starting Next YearCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JUNE 1, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
COME FROM AWAYTUESDAY - FRIDAY   9pmTahrirCAMPUS
CALENDAR
JUNE 1 - JUNE 72015 POWERED BY THE CHANCELLOR’S OFFICE AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guar dian
Calendar
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar @
ucsdgu ardian .orgMON6.01 WED6.03 TUE6.02
11am
ART AND SOUL: BEACH THEMED MASON JARS - 
THE ZONE
Need a little memento of your time spent in San Diego? 
Create your very own beach themed mason jar at Art & Soul today! Materials are provided, but space is limited. Make sure to arrive early because this event is 
first come, first served!
1pm
R&R SQUAD - 2ND FLOOR, S&S SIDE, GEISEL 
LIBRARY
Check out the R&R Squad at Geisel Library every 
Monday from 1-2pm!10am
UCSD BLOOD DRIVE - BLOODMOBILE ON 
LIBRARY WALK
Lives depend on it! Schedule an appointment by 
calling 1-800-4MY-SDBB (1-800-469-7322) or log onto: www.sandiegobloodbank.org and provide Sponsor Code: UCPC. Walk-ins are welcome as 
openings are available.
12pm
YEAR IN REVIEW -BLACK RESOURCE CENTER, 
SUITE 202
Please join the Black Resource Center, and units 
which support the Black experience at UCSD, as we review and recognize our accomplishments of the 
2014-2015 academic year. We will also look forward 
to the 2015-2016 academic year and the exciting things on our horizon, while commending the rich impact we make on this campus. Lastly we will discuss our possibilities for collaborative and interdisciplinary activities which will lead to the 
enrichment of the campus community, scholarship, 
and creative works.
7:30pm
COME FROM AWAY - LA JOLLA PLAYHOUSE
Come from Away is an original, rock-inspired 
world-premiere musical based on the true story of 
when the isolated town of Gander, Newfoundland 
played host to the world. What started as an average 
day in a small town turned into an international sleepover when 38 planes were diverted to Gander on September 11, 2001. Undaunted by culture clashes and language barriers, the spirited town 
cheered the stranded travelers with music, an open 
bar and the recognition that we're all part of a global family.
SUN6.07
6pm
ROCK CHURCH MICROSITE - MARSHALL 
COLLEGE RM, PC WEST, LEVEL 2
The Rock Church now has a Microsite on campus! 
Join us for a live-streaming service this Sunday!FRI6.05
10am
FITNESS ZONE: PILATES - THE ZONE
Learn the basics of the Pilates method. Using the 
power of the resistance of the body, and mimicking 
real life movements (flexion, extension, rotation), 
muscle balance and core stability will be challenged 
in every workout. Led by FitLife instructor Melinda 
Gafford.
12pm
GENDER BUFFET SERIES - WOMEN’S CENTER
Join us for Gender Buffet this week for some free snacks and conversation on invisible disability, women, community, activism, and more!
2:30pm
CAREER CHATS WITH CSC - THE ZONE
Drop by and chat with a Career Services Center advisor about professional career objectives and goal 
setting so that you can be successful!
8pm
COME FROM AWAY - LA JOLLA PLAYHOUSE
Come from Away is an original, rock-inspired 
world-premiere musical based on the true story of when the isolated town of Gander, Newfoundland played host to the world. What started as an average day in a small town turned in to an international sleepover when 38 planes were diverted to Gander on September 11, 2001. Undaunted by culture clashes and language barriers, the spirited town cheered the stranded travelers with music, an open bar and the recognition that we're all part of a global family.2pm
BODY COMP ANALYSIS - THE ZONE
Walk in for your free analysis which includes: body weight, percentage body fat, total body water, and blood pressure. One free assessment per quarter is 
available to registered UCSD students
3:30pm
TEST ANXIETY REDUCTION WORKSHOP LGBT 
RESOURCE CENTER, ORIGINAL STUDENT CENTER
This workshop addresses the cognitive and behavioral 
causes of test anxiety, and provides skills/strategies to 
reduce anxiety in testing situations and improve 
performance.
9:55pm
APPLY FOR ASCE STAFF
Are you passionate about on-campus events at UCSD? Do you want to be part of the team responsible for 
crafting next year's Sun God Festival, Hullabaloo, Bear 
Gardens, All Campus Dance and Special Events? Are 
you interested in gaining valuable concert and event planning experience? Apply to be a part of next year's 
ASCE staff!THU6.04
12pm
BREATHER SERIES: ARTS AND CRAFTS - 
CROSS-CULTURAL CENTER, ARTSPACE
Come to de-stress or take a break from work or 
school. Take home what you create, whether it is a picture frame, wooden box, canvas, etc. All supplies 
are provided! All are welcome!
2pm
SUSTAINABLE FRONTIERS: A CONVERSATION 
WITH PIERRE SLEIMAN ‘13 - MANDEVILLE CENTER, B202
Founder and CEO of Go Green Agriculture, Pierre 
Sleiman, will be sharing his incredible journey from MBA student to high-tech hydroponic farmer and Whitehouse Champion of Change honored by 
President Obama in 2014. The UC San Diego alumni 
and agribusiness pioneer will talk about his entrepreneurial path, how he is breaking into national markets and his vision of setting up Go 
Green hydroponic greenhouses across the country
2:30pm
MEET UPS: CAREER CONVERSATIONS - BLACK 
RESOURCE CENTER
Part of The Real World Career Series: building skills 
for a diverse interconnected community. Come by for an informal and fun career chat with a career advisor! These meet-ups will occur throughout 
Spring quarter at varying times and locations, to 
accommodate any schedule.
3pm
PASSPORT TO CULTURE - PHILIPPINES - 
I-HOUSE LOUNGE, CUZCO
Learn about life and culture in other countries and 
states from current international and out-of-state students. Enjoy a traditional taste of food from the highlighted region each week! Come earn your passport and "travel around the world"! All students are welcome! This event is great for students interested in studying abroad.SAT6.06
9am
TRITON 5K AND FESTIVAL - TRACK AND FIELD 
STADIUM, RIMAC
Need a study break? Run (or walk) the Triton 5K, a 3.1 
mile adventure through UC San Diego campus past iconic landmarks like the Sun God and Geisel Library. After the race, de-stress at the Triton 5K Festival 
featuring live music, food, Fun Zone, hands on 
activities, beer garden, and more!
LA JOLLA PLAYHOUSE
JOIN  THE
CONVERS ATION
staywith me.ucsd.eduWIN SHARE
a free shirt or t ank.
Winner  chosen daily .  
staywithmeucsd
10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JUNE 1, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
CLASSIFIEDS$
Guar dian Classi/f_ieds ar e FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifieds
BIKES
Trek 7100 WSD Bicycle - $280. Trek 7100 
WSD (Women’s Specific Design) bicycle 
with Sram shifters. In terrific condition. 
Selling because it does not get ridden any -
more and I need the room in the garage. 
Listing ID: 153569532 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Nirve 53 Mens 3 Speed Beach Cruiser 
- $220. Perfect for summer time beach 
cruising. Three speed beach cruiser, front 
springer suspension. Bought her new for 
$500. Bike is in attractive condition with a 
few minor scratches from being on the bike 
carrier and stored. Listing ID: 153569531 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
2 Bikes for Sale - We’ve had these bikes a 
few years and have kept them in storage, 
so they are a little dusty. I believe the only 
thing wrong with them is flat tires or pos -
sibly need new innertubes. We would like 
to get $15 for the girls bike and the other 
is a pro stunt with shocks mountain bike. 
We would like $25 for that one. Listing ID: 
153569530 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
ELECTRONICS
Coolpix L100 Digital Camera - $100. It is 10.0 Magpixels, 15x Zoom, 3.0 LCD, ISO 
3200, Vibration Reduction, Auto Focus. 
Camera also has lens cap, USB cable, 
Software CD-ROM, User’s Manual. Overall 
a good camera and takes excellent images. 
Camera is sold as is. The battery door hangs 
open a little bit but this does not affect the 
camera’s operation. Listing ID: 153569571 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
LowePro Camera and Laptop Backpack - 
$90. Amazing backpack with perfect design 
to carry all that you may need on your 
everyday photo activities. In outstanding 
cosmetic condition. this backpack can be 
yours for a very great price. I’m selling it 
because I no longer use it, actually I used 
it just for a couple of times. Listing ID: 
153569572 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Dell 500 GB Desktop with 32” Samsung 
SmartTV/Monitor and Speakers - $200. 
This is your ultimate work station/enter -
tainment station. Absolutely NOTHING 
wrong with any of it - I’m just selling every -
thing and moving out of the country, so 
don’t want to import anything. Listing ID: 
153569569 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Brand New Sofa and Loveseats - $450. 
Selling brand new black leather sofa sets. 
We have plenty in stock and we offer deliv -
ery to your specified location for a small fee. 
Selling both for $450. Listing ID: 151866541 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Under the Cabinet Lights (2) - $15. Selling 
two under the cabinet lights. Perfect for 
under your kitchen, garage or office desk 
cabinets. They come with screws to attach 
to the cabinet and they are plug in style. 
In good condition. Listing ID: 151866545 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Vintage Large Mercury Glass Table Lamp 
Base - $30. A very unique piece! Very tall. No 
chips or cracks in glass. Price is firm. Looks 
great with a modern style shade. Listing ID: 
153256307 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
.com/ucsdguardian
asgraphicstudioApply to
asgraphicstudio@ucsd.edu
*include resume & design samples/ portfolio
graphic
artistswantedgraphic
artistswanted
t
your vision,
our missi on.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom a pparel to 
promote your student 
organiza tion with Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!crossword
ACROSS
1 Thingamajig
6 Castaway’s home
10 Unpaid credit card bills, e.g.
14 __ of the tongue
15 Celebrity chef Bobby
16 Provo’s state
17 Trailblazer Daniel
18 Bad thing to yell in a crowded theater
19 Hosiery hue
20 Borax haulers, in classic ads
23 Best kind of situation
24 Annual period
25 Getting the job done, briefly
26 Pig __ poke
27 Santa staffer
29 Eager lip sounds
31 Cowboy’s topper
35 “ ... __ saw Elba”
36 Sport __: versatile vehicle
37 LAPD alerts
41 Poker game where one might stand 
pat
46 Sam’s Club competitor
49 Confucian “path”
50 That, in Tijuana
51 Sculptures, oils, etc.
52 Sock-in-the-gut responses, in comics
55 Words of understanding
57 CBS sitcom since 2003
60 Darkroom images, for short
61 Radioer’s “Back to you”
62 New Wave band __ Boingo
64 Settled on a branch, as a bird
65 Twistable cookie
66 Actress Mary-Kate or Ashley
67 __ bargain: court deal
68 E-mail button
69 Salon coloristsDOWN
1 Chew the fat
2 Big name in gloves
3 It’s to the far right on freeways
4 Sal of “Exodus”
5 Where pirates prey
6 Far from certain
7 Covered with thick, icky liquid
8 Lash of old oaters
9 Place for mascara
10 Sonny and Cher song, e.g.
11 “Yada, yada, yada ... ”
12 President Obama
13 Hitchhikers’ digits
21 Be a rat fink
22 Witty Bombeck
23 TV’s Nick at __
28 Chimney duct
30 Not much
32 Party invitee’s buy
33 Non-Rx
34 Without ice
38 False appearance
39 Kim of “L.A. Confidential”
40 Whack, as a fly
42 Clickable PC image
43 Some West Indian religious cultists
44 Racetrack border
45 Alpo or Pedigree
46 Forty winks
47 “Animal Farm” author George
48 Inferior cigar
53 Quarterback Brett with a record 464 
TD passes
54 Charlie of 
57-Across
56 Etiquette author Post
58 “The Thin Man” dog
59 Yanks’ third baseman, familiarly
63 Switch positions
www.ucsdguardian.org/advertisingT urn Your ACTIONS
into Words
Advertise your event, your product!
Advertise yourself withSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JUNE 1, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
MONDAY , LIBRARY WALK, 12pm-4pm20% OFF
EVERYTHING ALL WEEK
EXTRA DAILY SPECIALS!
50% OFF ENTIRE STORE
DURING THE FIRST FIVE MINUTES OF EACH HOUR
WEEKSALESALE
SPRING  2015
MONDAY
FIRST DAY
12PM 1PM 2PM 3PM
TANK TOPTUESDA Y
25% OFF
ALL TANKS IN STOCKMIX+MATCHWEDNESDAY
$18.00ANY SHIRT PLUS
ACCESSORY FOR ONLY
Men’s Volleyball Women’s Volleyball
Previous Finish: Failed to Reach the 
Postseason
Projected Finish: First-Round   
Elimination of NCAA West Regional Previous Record:  14–12
Projected Re cord:  18–8
UCSD women’s volleyball team is only los -
ing one senior to graduation, but opposite hitter 
Caitlin Brenton, an academic All-American, was 
the one who led the team in the most statistical 
categories last season. The Tritons will welcome 
six newcomers to the team next season to comple -
ment a strong group of returning players. UCSD 
underachieved last season, but the team, led by 
2013 All-American senior outside hitter Danielle 
Dahle as well as other players who have some -
thing to prove, will look to bounce back under the    
leadership of Head Coach Ricci Luyties.Men’s Soccer
Previous Record:  10–4–6
Projected Re cord:  9–4–7
Previous Finish:  First-Round 
Elimination in NCAA Tournament
Projected Finish:  First-Round 
Elimination in NCAA Tournament
UCSD lost a whopping 10 players to 
graduation and five to injuries last year 
but still managed to reach the NCAA 
Tournament. Head Coach Jon Pascale got the 
best out of the available players to finish third 
in the CCAA. With the departure of senior 
attacker Brandon Bauman, the team will turn 
to last year’s revelations Sean Pleskow, Kuba 
Waligorski and Cameron McElfresh, as well 
as Malek Bashti, to lead UCSD forward. The 
Tritons will rely on a defense that ranked 11th 
in goals against average last season, after 
finishing in the top five the previ -
ous two seasons, to try to make it 
three straight trips to the NCAA 
Tournament. 
PHOTOS BY MEGAN LEE/ GUARDIAN
PHOTOS BY MEGAN LEE/ GUARDIANPrevious Record:  2–26
Projected Re cord:  4–24
Previous Finish: Last Place in Mountain Pacific 
Sports Federation 
Projected Finish: Last Place in Mountain Pacific 
Sports Federation 
UCSD men’s volleyball had an amazing 15 freshmen on 
the team last year, with plenty of them assuming big roles 
on a team that was blanked in conference play and fin -
ished dead last in the MPSF. Although the team will have 
a year of experience behind them and more cohesion, the 
continual opposition with Division-I talent schools will 
not grant the Tritons an easier task. All the coaching and 
experience in the world will not put a team depleted of 
good talent over the hump, and this is a situation the 
men’s volleyball program faces year after year. Another 
disappointing season might put the coaching staff on 
the hot seat and put into perspective a program that 
has had lackluster performances far too long.
PHOTOS BY CARINA CORNEJO/ GUARDIANWomen’s Soccer
Previous Record:  9–6–3
Projected Re cord:  7–7–4
Previous Finish  First-Round Elimination at 
CCAA League Championship
Projected Finish:  Fail to Reach Postseason 
Losing seniors Cassie Callahan and Izzy Pozurama 
will be tough for a Triton team that barely sneaked 
into the postseason, after a 5–0–1 final stretch. The 
dynamic duo’s loss will create a void in the team after 
ranking in the bottom half of the CCAA in goals 
scored. The defense will see most of its starters 
return, but will have to improve on its mediocre 
seventh-best goals against average from last year 
in the CCAA. The Tritons will rely on senior 
goalkeeper Kelcie Brodsky for that, while head 
coach Brian McManus will look to second year 
starter winger Jordyn McNutt, last year’s lead -
ing goal-scorer for the team, to 
anchor the offense. Ultimately, 
UCSD will have trouble repeat -
ing a trip to the CCAA League 
Championship.SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
MARCUS THUILLIER 
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JUNE 1, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
Predictions
Another year of Triton athletics is behind us, and the 
2015 –16 season looms. Take a look at our guide to 
see how your UCSD Tritons will fare in the 
upcoming season.
Previous  Record:  36–21 // Projected  Record:  32–252015-16
Previous Finish:  Eliminated in final round of NCAA Regionals
Projected Finish : Eliminated in first round of NCAA Regionals
Baseball
After yet another outstanding season that concluded on a bitter loss in the NCAA Regionals, 
the UCSD baseball program enters an offseason of doubt. The Tritons saw eight of their players 
graduate, among them plenty of contributors from the bullpen, which has been consistent for 
the first time in years. With stellar pitcher Justin Donatella likely to have his name called in the 
upcoming MLB draft, UCSD could possibly lose another huge contributor to its past season’s 
success. We are not down on the remaining Tritons, though, as Eric Newman has always been 
able to get the best out of his roster, but the loss of talent will be felt when UCSD battles CCAA 
rivals to get to the NCAAs.Softball
Previous Finish:  Failed to Reach the Postseason
Projected Finish : Fourth-Place Finish in CCAA Tournament
For the first time in a decade, the Triton softball team failed to secure a postseason berth 
despite favorable preseason expectations and a number of stellar performances early in the season. 
However, even with this less-than-spectacular finish to their season and the loss of relief pitcher 
Mo Omori, UCSD will undoubtedly be back and better than ever next season. Five Tritons earned 
all-CCAA distinctions this season, and better yet, none of the five were seniors. Senior southpaw 
Alexis Edwards and sophomore infielder Kendall Baker are among the group of returners seeking to 
re-establish UCSD as a CCAA powerhouse. With another year of experience under their belt, this 
young Triton team could be a force to be reckoned with at the conference level. Men’s Basketball
Previous  Record:  16–11 // Projected  Record:  17–10
Previous Finish:  First-Round Elimination at CCAA 
League Championship
Projected Finish : Final at CCAA League Championship
UCSD relied on a strong group of juniors as well as sophomore guard Adam 
Klie to make a push for the CCAA League Championship this past season. Coach 
Eric Olen will have a full group of returning players next season, as none of his 
players will be graduating this June. After struggling with consistency for a few 
seasons, the Tritons finally looked like a team to be reckoned with in the CCAA. 
With seniors Hunter Walker, Drew Dyer and Zach McMillan leading the charge 
and Aleks Lipovic, Jeff Van Dyke and Grant Jackson providing depth, UCSD will 
once again be a contender for the CCAA crown.
Women’s Water Polo
Previous  Record:  19–21 // Projected  Record:  17–23
Previous Finish:  Eighth-Place Finish at
NCAA Championship
Previous Finish:  Five Triton Qualifiers for NCAAs, three All-American Finishes
Projected Finish : Elimination in NCAA play-in game 
Projected Finish : Six Triton Qualifiers for NCAAs, two All-American FinishesAfter losing Sarah Lizotte last season and Jolene Guiliana this 
year to graduation, UCSD women’s water polo has a hard task ahead 
if it wants to stay atop the WWPA. They will rely on this year’s 
revelation senior attacker Laurel Kistler and senior goalie Courtney 
Miller to lead the team going into next season. The Tritons will need 
to find some offense after struggling on this end this past season, 
as senior attacker Julia Kirkland and junior attacker Lani Tittle will 
have to step up to ensure that UCSD stays the team to beat in the 
conference. The defense directed by Miller will once again be the 
team’s strength, as the Tritons look to win another WWPA champi -
onship and try to reach the NCAA tournament.
Women’s Basketball
Previous  Record:  18–10 // Projected  Record:  15–13
Previous Finish:  First-Round Elimination at CCAA League Championship
Projected Finish : First-Round Elimination at CCAA League Championship
UCSD came into the postseason riding a very 
impressive seven-game winning streak in the California 
Collegiate Athletic Association, only to be ousted in the 
first round. The team will lose three starters, as six seniors 
are departing, and the Tritons will have a very different 
look next season. Haley Anderson, Jamie Katuna, Cassie 
MacLeod, Taylor Tanita and standout Farrah Shokoor 
played meaningful minutes last season and will look to fill 
the void left, as Head Coach Heidi VanDerveer will rely 
on them to lead an always-competitive UCSD squad to 
another CCAA postseason berth.
Men’s Water Polo
Previous  Record:  16–11 // Projected  Record:  15–12
Previous Finish:  Fourth-Place Finish at NCAA Championship
Projected Finish : WWPA Winner, Eliminated in NCAA play-in game
The Triton men’s water polo team is consistently the team to beat in the WWPA, but the loss of 
multiple seniors could prove to be a bit costly. Star utility player Josh Stiling and two-meter player 
Joe Dietrich were major driving forces for UCSD all season, and their strength and skill will be 
missed in the pool. However, despite considerable turnover, this team doesn’t seem likely to falter 
too much given its championship history. Head Coach Denny Harper has led the Tritons to victory 
after victory. Even if an NCAA tournament may not be in the cards this upcoming season, UCSD 
isn’t apt to give up its comfortable spot at the top of the conference any time soon. Previous  Record:  25–25 // Projected  Record:  32–18PHOTO BY BEATRIZ BAJUELOS/ GUARDIAN
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE/ GUARDIAN PHOTO BY ALWIN SZETO/ GUARDIANPHOTO BY SIDDHARTH ATRE/ GUARDIAN
PHOTO BY JESUS PACHECO/ GUARDIANPHOTO BY ALWIN SZETO/ GUARDIAN
Track & Field
After a very successful season that concluded with the first-ever CCAA title for the men and 
three All-American honors, the Tritons will come back next year with a younger but still-experi -
enced team. All-American Nash Howe will have graduated, but UCSD will welcome back freshman 
sensation triple jumper Matt Bowen, who earned a sixth-place finish at the NCAA Championships. 
The team faces its share of roster turnover, but plenty of last year’s top performers are back to make 
a push for the NCAAs. Both teams will also look to perform at the CCAA Championships, with 
the men defending their title and the women looking to best their third-place finish of this year.  
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE/ GUARDIANPHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE/ GUARDIAN