VOLUME 48, ISSUE 52  THURSDAY , MAY 7, 2015 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
OK GO ROCKS 
OUT DOWNTOWN
IN ADDITION TO THEIR SUN 
GOD PERFORMANCE, OK 
GO PUT ON AN EVEN MORE 
ELABORATE SHOW AT THE 
HOUSE OF BLUES, AND 
BASSIST TIM NORDWIND 
TALKS ABOUT THE BAND.
DRIED  UP  CALIFORNIA
PLA YOFF BOUNDv aluing  w a ter  conserv a tion
Tritons  grab  second  seed opinion,  P age  4
SPORTS ,  P age  12
THURSDAY
H 63 L 54FRIDAY
H 64 L 56
SATURDAY
H 66 L 55SUNDAY
H 68 L 57
FORECAST
VERBATIM
LOOKING AT 
THE NUM -
BERS NOW, 
BALTIMORE IS 
NO SURPRISE. 
IN FACT, HOW 
COULD WE NOT SEE IT 
COMING?”
-AYAT AMIN & MARCUS 
THUILLIER
ACROSS THE GLOBE  
INSIDE
AVERAGE CAT  ................. 2
EDITORIALS  .................... 4
MICROWAVE RECIPES  .....8
CLASSIFIEDS  ................ 10
MIND OF AN ATHLETE  ...12“
WEEKEND,  P AGE  9
PHOTO BY TAYLOR SANDERSON / GUARDIAN
Greeks United for Inclusion, 
Diversity and Equity, seeking to 
make the UCSD Greek system 
more inclusive, is educating campus 
fraternities and sororities for a more 
equitable atmosphere within that 
community, as has been the group’s 
focus since it was founded in Fall 
Quarter 2014.
GUIDE has so far held a retreat 
and four workshops that focused 
on teaching members of the 
UCSD Greek community about a 
range of issues including allyship, 
LGBTQQIAA campus issues, historic 
exclusivity of Greek life and pre- and 
post-Compton Cookout UCSD.Lauren Roberts, an Eleanor 
Roosevelt College sophomore and 
active member of GUIDE, as well as 
Alpha Chi Omega, spoke about using 
GUIDE to fix issues that have been 
institutionalized in the Greek system.
“This org [sic] isn’t about 
dismantling the system in place and 
creating a new one, ” Roberts told the 
UCSD Guardian. “This org is about 
realizing the institutional problems 
that exist in Greek life so we can step 
up and move into a new era for Greek 
Life. We hope to make institutional 
changes in the Greek system that 
can move Greek life away from its 
historical exclusivity and towards a 
more equitable future. ”
GUIDE intends to make changes 
in education for the Greek system 
specifically by implementing a Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion 
requirement for all members of 
UCSD Greek life. Roberts indicated 
that this may be their most difficult 
goal to implement. They have also 
been drafting their constitution, and 
the election for principal members 
will be going on this week.
Roberts also told the Guardian 
that though GUIDE realizes that 
many communities at UCSD do not 
trust Greek life, the members intend 
to work to change that image.
“ A lot of communities are 
distrusting of Greek life, which 
is completely understandable. 
We have a lot to prove as a new 
organization, and the first of its kind 
in the country, ” Roberts said. “That CAMPUS
The Mariachi Divinas performed during the Dia de Danza event held in PC Plaza on May 5 as part of Raza Awareness Week.
Photo by Brian Monroe /Guardian     .
MEChA Students Celebrate 
Latin American Culture
UCSD’s 26th annual Raza Awareness 
Week began on May 4 with events 
aimed at understanding and celebrat -
ing the social, cultural and political aspects of 
the Raza community. 
Raza Awareness Week coordinator Veronica 
Rubalcava explained that many are unaware of 
how vast and rich the cultures they are celebrat -
ing are.
“From Guatemala to El Salvador to Mexico, 
you have really rich traditions and cultures that 
not a lot of people are aware of, ” Rubalcava said. 
“This week is dedicated to allowing not just the 
Raza community but the UCSD community 
as a whole to get together and really get to 
understand these issues on a deeper level, 
as well as celebrate the cultures that Latin 
America has to offer. ”
Raza Awareness Week, sponsored by 
Movimiento Estudiantil Chicanola de Aztlan 
and La Sociedad Latin@, kicked off Monday 
with a taquero when more than 150 students 
received free tacos for providing three facts about Latin America. Later that day, several 
musical groups representing different Latin 
American nations performed at Price Center 
Plaza. A mariachi band picked up the musical 
festivities with a performance on Tuesday, which 
was also Cinco de Mayo. 
MEChA then hosted an open forum at the 
Raza Resource Center on Wednesday called 
“Queer Latinidad & Higher Education” . The 
Raza Awareness Week Facebook event page 
described the forum as “a writing workshop 
and open discussion on life, death, love and 
resistance through a Queer Latin@ lens. ” Later 
that night, UCSD community members gath -
ered together for Mujer Appreciation Dinner to 
celebrate the women in their lives.
MEChA Board intern Jonathan Gonzalez 
sees Raza Awareness Week as an opportunity 
for the Raza community to unite and express 
themselves freely. 
“Raza Awareness Week is the time of the 
year that people of color from Central, Latin and 
parts of North America can push forward the   B y  JACKY  TO    SENIOR STAFF WRITER 
UCSD Students Promote Inclusion in Greek Life
GUIDE is the first national Greek organization to educate about cultural sensitivity.
B Y   Kyle  somers
associate a&e editorSee RAZA , page 3
See GUIDE , page 3Governor 
Institutes 
Fines for 
Water WasteCALIFORNIA
Local governments can now 
penalize groups and residents 
up to $10,000 as part of new 
water conservation efforts.
B Y  Andrew  chao
Contributing Writer
See WATER , page 3On April 28, Gov. Brown 
announced new penalties for 
residents and businesses that 
waste the most water. The new 
water-conservation measures will 
empower local municipalities 
to impose fines up to $10,000 
on groups and individuals using 
excessive amounts of water. 
The new penalties are part of a 
mandatory statewide effort to curb 
water waste by 25 percent. More 
recently, Brown even called for some 
districts to reduce water waste by as 
much as 36 percent in order to reach 
the state’s conservation targets.
The governor stated that these 
fines should be considered as a last 
resort and that only those who use 
the most water by violating water 
conservation laws will be penalized. 
However, he did not specify exactly 
what kind of violations would incur 
the penalties.
“Only the worst offenders will 
be getting that, ” Brown said in a 
statement to U-T San Diego. “I don’t 
like to increase penalties too much. ” 
UCSD has a Water Action Plan 
in place to reduce potable water use 
by 20 percent and reach statewide 
conservation targets by the year 2020. 
The plan includes such measures 
as implementing more efficient 
plumbing fixtures and replacing and 
reducing ornamental turf. 
The conservation measures 
implemented by the university 
will not affect student housing 
and attendance costs, according to 
UCSD’s Communications and Public 
Affairs Manager Christine Clark.
“The conservation efforts will 
have no impact on housing rates, 
as they are already set for 2015–16 
and this includes utilities, ” Clark 
explained to the UCSD Guardian.
According to Kimberly 
O’Connell, a representative of 
AQUAholics Anonymous — an 
organization whose mission is to 
reduce water waste on campus 
— UCSD has replaced outdated 
irrigation systems with more water-
efficient versions.  
“The campus has replaced 
approximately 6,650 irrigation 
heads to water-efficient, low-volume 
irrigation heads to save 7.2 million 
gallons of potable water a year (an 
8-percent reduction in irrigation 
water use), ” O’Connell stated.
Additionally, the campus has 
stopped watering 54,000 square 
feet of turf and replaced Muir 
Field with artificial turf, which is 
expected to save over 1.53 million 
and two million gallons of water per 
year respectively. The replacement 
process at Muir Field began earlier CULTURE2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN |  THURSDAY , MAY 7, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG N EWS
Registration for SPRING Qtr is NOW open!
Register online at 
as.ucsd.edu/saferides
A.S. Safe Rides allows registered undergraduate 
stude nts to get 3 FREE rides per quarter.
Stude nts must register at least 24 hours
prior to their first ride. A.S. Safe Rides 
asucsd asucsd
DO Y OU TWEET? WE DO!
@UCSDGuar dian
@UCSDGuardianFOLLOWUS NOW!
...yes, now!
@UCSDGuardian#OMG! Follow us on Twitter #NOW! AVERAGE CAT By Christina Carlson
Researchers at UCSD School 
of Medicine and Skaggs School 
of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical 
Sciences published a report studying 
the role of a new experimental drug in 
helping to protect against urinary tract 
infections on April 30. 
The purpose of the study was to 
determine whether drugs that work 
to stabilize the protein transcriptional 
regulator hypoxia-inducible factor-1, 
or HIF-1alpha, can increase the innate 
immune response that blocks the 
entrance of uropathogenic E.coli, or 
UPEC, bacteria into the body. 
According to corresponding 
author and professor of pediatrics 
and pharmacy at Skaggs Dr. Victor 
Nizet, researchers first realized the 
significance of HIF-1alpha and its 
role in innate immunity through the 
examination of previous studies of 
mice that had genetic deletion of HIF-
1alpha in their white blood cells or in their skin cells. 
Other studies further demonstrated 
that these mice were also more 
susceptible to bacterial infection, 
and their cells had difficulty killing 
pathogens like UPEC.
While HIF-1alpha typically 
is a short-lived regulator protein, 
there have been experimental drugs 
designed to slow the breakdown 
process and prolong the protein’s 
stabilizing effect. It was these drugs 
that Nizet and his colleagues hoped 
to demonstrate could be utilized in 
boosting HIF-1alpha levels to combat 
pathogens that lead to UTIs.
Nizet also told the UCSD Guardian 
that past research further aided this 
new avenue of study.
“In earlier work, we published 
that these drugs, when administered 
topically, could treat skin infections 
with drug-resistant staph bacteria, ” 
Nizet said. “In the current paper, 
we are extending our work to a 
super problematic type of infection 
— UTIs, which have a high rate 
of recurrence and since antibiotic resistance is increasing in the most 
common pathogens causing UTI[s], 
especially E. coli. ”
Following the confirmation of 
the significance of HIF-1alpha levels, 
Nizet and his colleagues began 
conducting their research using 
human epithelial cells, or bladder 
cells, and a mouse model of a UTI.
First, in order to confirm 
the importance of HIF-1alpha 
in preventing UPEC infections, 
researchers examined mice with 
reduced levels of the protein. In doing 
so, they discovered that, when exposed 
to UPEC, these mice were more 
likely to experience a UTI infection, 
showing that HIF-1alpha controlled 
the expression of genes in the bladder 
important for natural immunity.
Researchers then analyzed whether 
or not the experimental drugs would 
be beneficial in treating established 
UTIs by infecting the mice with UPEC 
and administering the drugs six hours 
later. 
Results from these experiments 
demonstrated a significant decrease in bacteria presence within the bladder 
cells following treatment that limited 
the amount of damage done to the 
bladder and kidneys of the host. 
The results of the study and 
previous use of the drugs in other 
therapies, such as in treating anemia, 
could prove valuable in helping to 
develop necessary new methods for 
treating infections.
“If HIF-boosting drugs are 
as safe as they seem in anemia 
therapy and gain Food and Drug 
Administration approval, it might 
create an easier pathway to explore 
their use in infectious-disease 
scenarios alongside standard 
antibiotics, ” Nizet said.
Nizet and his team are further 
studying oral formulation of these 
types of drugs and exploring 
their benefits in a wide variety of 
different types of infections through 
laboratory models.SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY
Researchers found that HIF-boosting drugs reduce bacteria presence without causing significant harm to mice bladders. 
B Y  Br ynna  bol t
Senior staff Writer
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGsee more atBr ynna bol t  bbolt@ucsd.edu readers can contactStudy Finds New Drug Could Potentially Protect Against UTIs
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and 
Thursdays during the academic year by UCSD students 
and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this 
newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, 
without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2015, all 
rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible 
for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The 
views expressed herein do not necessarily represent 
the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of 
California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian 
is funded by advertising. Sherman is dying.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Aleksandra Konstantinovic
Andrew E. Huang  
Taylor Sanderson
Tina Butoiu
Kriti Sarin
Cassia Pollock
Marcus Thuillier
Teiko Yakobson
Jacqueline Kim
Kyle Somers
Nilu Karimi
Siddharth Atre
Jonathan Gao
Joselynn Ordaz
Sherman Aline
Elyse Yang
Annie Liu
Rosina Garcia
Jennifer Grundman
Laura Chow
Vincent PhamEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
  
Associate News Editor
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Social Media Coordinator
Training and Development
Page Layout
 Allison Kubo
Distribution
Christopher Graves, Josef Goodyear, Vincent Pham
Copy Readers
Andrew Chao, Caroline Lee, Sage Schubert Christian, Marissa 
Barber, Heejung Lim
Editorial Assistants
Shelby Newallis, Karly Nisson, Mario Attie, Katie Potts,
 Allison Kubo,being said we just need to follow the 
avenues for change and hope people 
respond well. ”
The organization was formed 
through the efforts and inputs of 
Greek Life Advisor Colin Gerker, the 
Campus Community Centers, the 
Interfraternity Council at UCSD, the 
Multicultural Greek Council and the Panhellenic Association at UCSD.
Colin King, the former Beta 
Theta Pi director of equality, talked 
about his disappointment with 
Greek life’s attitudes toward cultural 
inclusion and how he sees GUIDE 
as changing that.
“When I first came to UC San 
Diego in 2010, I was disappointed 
to see the lack of action towards the 
Greek communities and the lack of resources for those individuals or 
groups that were hurt by cultural 
insensitivity, ” King told the UCSD 
News Center. “GUIDE is a tangible 
step towards tackling the wider 
issues in the community. ”
 this quarter and is not expected to 
be completed until the end of the 
quarter.  
O’Connell also stated that 
student efforts are a significant part 
of the conservation efforts at UCSD. 
“It has been my experience 
that students bring a level of 
enthusiasm and innovation to water 
conservation that is motivating 
to the entire campus, ” O’Connell told the Guardian. “For example, I 
worked with a group of engineering 
students last spring who collaborated 
with HDH staff to design and build 
a rain collection system that is now 
in front of Foodworx. ” 
O’Connell also mentioned ways 
in which students can make a direct 
impact in helping to conserve water. 
“Little changes can make a big 
difference, ” O’Connell said.  “If every 
student that lives on campus reduces 
their shower by two minutes for 12 days, the campus will save enough 
water to fill an Olympic-sized pool. ”
Some of the long-term goals 
of AQUAholics Anonymous 
include being a resource center for 
collaboration among students and 
faculty to reduce water usage and 
to encourage water conservation 
through education and outreach.best of their cultures, ” Gonzalez said. 
“It shows how we are not that different 
and how we share similar struggles, 
heritages and cultures. ”
Thurgood Marshall College junior 
Esperanza Gutierrez, who is also a 
member of MEChA, thinks that, 
even for members of the Raza com -
munity, Raza Awareness Week is the 
best place to learn more about and 
experience their culture. 
“My parents have told me stories 
about their culture and taught me 
certain practices, but I was born 
and raised in America, so they could 
only teach me so much, ” Gutierrez 
said. “It’s great to see my roots in person and the traditions of where 
my grandparents are from. ”
Though this is UCSD’s 26th Raza 
Awareness Week, Rubalcava informed 
the UCSD Guardian that MEChA lost 
traditional status and funding this 
year from A.S. Council for unclear 
reasons. However, the organization 
eventually convinced A.S. Council and 
Student Promoted Access Center for 
Education and Service to fund their 
week-long celebration. 
“We had been talking with A.S. 
finance representatives since Fall 
Quarter [2014], and they were aware 
of our situation, ” Rubalcava said. 
“Even though there were a lot of 
hiccups throughout our funding 
journey, A.S. [Council] still worked with us and gave us the funding that 
we needed. ”
The celebration continues on 
Thursday with an art project on 
Library Walk in which community 
members can paint their thoughts 
on the “MEChA Wall” until 2 p.m. 
Playwright Josefina Lopez will then 
screen the film “Real Women Have 
Curves, ” which she co-wrote and 
is based on her play, at the Cross 
Cultural Center and answer ques -
tions from audience members. 
Raza Awareness Week concludes on 
Friday with a screening of the film 
“Sin Nombre. ”N EWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 7, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
Looking for the 
New Business 
Column?
Now posted every Wednesday 
night, after the A.S. Council 
meeting, online.
ucsdguardian.orgMeCha Worked with A.S. Council to Secure Funding for Events
O’Connell: Little Changes Can Reduce Water Usage Significantly
King: GUIDE is a Tangible Step T owards Tackling Wider Issues▶ RAZA,  from page 1
▶ WATER,  from page 1
▶ GUIDE,  from page 1Jacky To   j6to@ucsd.edu readers can contact
Andrew Chao   avchao@ucsd.edu readers can contact
Kyle Somers  Ksomers@ucsd.edu readers can contact4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 7, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CASSIA  POLLOCK
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Following the death of Freddie 
Gray, Baltimore was put into 
the limelight as its citizens 
staged protests and sometimes riots 
against police brutality. For the record, 
Freddie Gray was a black man who 
was arrested in Baltimore for being 
in possession of a switchblade. 
While under arrest, he suffered a 
fatal spine injury from being placed 
unbuckled and handcuffed into the 
back of a police car.
Baltimore is not the first city in 
the recent past to launch a protest 
sparked by the death of a black man. 
To anyone who has seen the statistics 
surrounding black lives in Baltimore 
or any of the other cities, the protests 
were just a matter of time. 
Take infant mortality rates. These 
rates reflect a lot of things about that 
community — primarily wealth, 
access to good healthcare and regional 
stability. Countries like Finland have 
infant mortality rates as low as 2 per -
cent, but in war-torn regions like the 
Gaza Strip and West Bank, the rate is 
about 20 percent, according to Vox 
Media. Looking at the history of these 
countries, the discrepancy makes 
sense. However, in the United States, 
both rates exist within the same city of 
Baltimore; it only depends on which 
neighborhood you live in. Within the 
neighborhood of Canton, where less 
than 2 percent of the population lives 
below the poverty line, you will find 
the infant mortality rate to be more 
like Finland’s rate. However, go a few 
miles to the neighborhood of Little 
Italy, and suddenly the mortality rate 
increases to be higher than the West 
Bank rate as reported by Vox Media
Unlike before, this difference is 
illogical. It’s the same city! These 
neighborhoods share the same 
national, state and city governments. 
However, income levels represent 
clear disparities. In Little Italy, 41 per -
cent of the population lives below the 
poverty line. Unfortunately, financial 
inequality and race are not mutually 
exclusive. According to the National 
Poverty Center, in 2010, 27 percent of 
blacks and 27 percent of Latinos lived 
below the poverty line compared to 
10 percent of whites. Thus, the jump 
in infant mortality rates appears to be 
directly correlated with socioeconom -
ic status. This means that not only 
are minorities disproportionately liv -
ing in the poorest conditions (below 
the poverty line), but they also don’t 
have access to the same health ben -
efits as their counterparts. This is 
just one example of how one factor 
such as income can affect many oth -
ers, such as health. 
Overall, life expectancy is lower 
in parts of Baltimore as well. For 
example, there are 15 neighborhoods 
where the life expectancy rate is lower 
than North Korea’s, according to Vox 
Media. Think about that. A dictator -
ship with one of the worst human 
rights records currently in existence. 
It’s almost as if  Baltimore’s residents 
are living in different countries rather 
than different neighborhoods. 
Looking at the numbers now, 
Baltimore is no surprise. In fact, how 
could we not see it coming? As we 
observe the other cities in the United 
States, we discover these issues are 
present in New Y ork, Cleveland and 
many others. If we don’t want to add 
another city the list, then we will have 
to address these issues soon.Protests in 
Baltimore? 
We’re Not 
Surprised
Anyone who lives in California needs to know that 
the ongoing drought isn’t just bad. It’s literally one of 
the worst water shortages in recorded history. In fact, 
climatologists have found evidence suggesting that it’s the 
most severe drought in over 1,000 years. Even if this isn’t 
the start of a megadrought spanning decades, as some 
scientists speculate that it is, the effects still aren’t going to 
be disregarded by anyone soon.
By now, just about everyone in California knows that 
farming takes up the vast majority of our water supplies, 
but most people don’t realize that half of our water does 
not come directly from rainwater. It’s an underground 
supply, and there’s a limited amount.
Even more concerning, this set amount of water is 
being frittered away at an alarming rate. In contrast to 
other western states, there’s been a lack of reasonable 
regulations on this source before this year. And these 
new regulations won’t provide fully sustainable water 
usage practices any time in the next 10 years. Hope -
fully, they will be 25 years from now.
But odds are that you aren’t a farmer and really 
don’t care about catastrophically falling water tables or 
how farming lobbying might ruin California’s farming 
industry before your 40th birthday. So how will the current drought affect you?
Well, skiers in Lake Tahoe already noticed that the 
snowpack, which usually lasts through May, saw major 
ski resorts closing for the winter in early February for the 
second year in a row. That’s an inconvenience for NorCal 
vacationers for now, but it’ll be interesting to see if the 
California snowsports industry fails or changes dramati -
cally in the near future.
Here in Southern California, fires often seen in 
spring and summer will get more severe and more 
frequent. Also, due to the science behind groundwater 
flow, coastal cities will be dealing with the expensive 
problem of keeping seawater from ruining our ground -
water supply. Otherwise, we’ll start having to look to 
pump even more water from other places, not as if that 
will be much of an option.
And we can’t say we didn’t see this coming. A book 
more relevant than ever, “Cadillac Desert, ” a name refer -
ring to the California Central Valley, predicted the water 
crisis in the area all the way back in 1986. Evidently, 
Californians have been covering their ears about this for 
at least 30 years. Now that we’re facing the results of poor 
water conservation, our generation will be forced to deal 
with the consequences.Delivered fresh from the barren springs of California, nothing 
will quench your thirst like the taste of Starbucks’ bottled water. 
Starbucks has sold almost 250 million bottles of its Ethos brand water, 
according to Business Insider. While the company extensively publicizes 
the fact that 5 cents of every $1.95 of profits per water bottle is donated to 
purify drinking water in impoverished areas of the world, many consum -
ers on the West Coast (including celebrities like Matt Damon and Leon -
ardo DiCaprio) are unaware of the origins of the water they are drinking. 
Ethos sources its water from severely drought-stricken areas in Califor -
nia, namely Merced, a county that the U.S. Drought Monitor classifies as 
being in a state of “exceptional drought. ”
The company receives its water from a private processing plant owned by 
the grocery-chain store Safeway, another prominent company that should 
not be bottling its water from springs that are at risk of drying out. 
Mother Jones magazine reported that residents of areas near 
the water plant are expected to decrease their personal 
water usage by as much as 35 percent, while Ethos and 
Safeway do not even pay for the spring water they 
are constantly depleting from the area. Although its 
efforts to provide underprivileged children with clean 
drinking water are commendable, Starbucks should bottle 
its water from cities outside of California that are not facing 
a historic drought and use its status as a multibillion-dollar, 
international corporation to urge other businesses to do so as 
In times of extreme drought, like the one California is in 
right now, a common misunderstanding is how much urban 
water usage affects the drought. Shortening shower time by a few 
minutes or flushing the toilet less really won’t make a difference 
— not saying that these aren’t good things to practice, but in the 
grand scheme of things, these reductions are miniscule. The Public 
Policy Institute of California states that urban water usage only 
accounts for 10 percent of water used in California, and about 
half of that 10 percent goes toward landscaping (watering 
the lawn, for example). Despite this, water usage per capita 
in urban areas has declined significantly.
A better and more viable option for urban popula -
tions to consider is greywater: essentially recycling all 
the water someone uses to shower and wash clothes 
and dishes — though not water from toilets. If Cali -
fornians remain keen on watering their lawn every 
day, then greywater is the answer. But greywater can 
go beyond this. It can also be used to irrigate plants (did 
you hear that, farmers?) and be recycled to wash clothes 
and dishes. If people wanted to use greywater to conserve 
water, they would simply have to install a system to recycle the 
greywater back into their homes, saving money in the long run 
because this requires very little energy to use. This extreme drought 
demands that Californians conserve water, and the greywater option is 
both viable and efficient. With our water crisis situation in California, desalina -
tion starts to sound like a decent option to provide us 
with drinkable water. A new desalination center is about to 
open in San Diego County and will look to provide water 
for 7 to 8 percent of San Diego’s population by November. 
The New Y ork Times reports that recent technological advances 
have helped cut energy use of these kinds of plants in half in the 
past 20 years.With the immensity of the Pacific Ocean, this new 
method promises a countless amount of drinkable water for Cali -
fornia’s residents in the near future.  
However, desalination should only come as a last option, as it is 
only a short-term solution. As Reuters points out, “The city of Santa 
Barbara is taking steps to modernize and reactivate a much smaller $34 
million desalination plant built during an earlier drought but mothballed 
after a trial run in 1992, when that water crisis abated. ” We do not know 
if the crisis will last, even though it seems like it will. This solution would 
also hurt the environment, with Reuters noting that consequences, “such 
as harm to marine life from intake pipes that suck water into the treat -
ment plants and the concentrated brine that gets discharged back 
into the ocean, ” would occur. 
In order to implement the desalination plant in San Diego County, 
this will require the investment of at least 1 billion dollars, as reported 
by Reuters. The issue here is for us to decide if we want to invest into 
this costly and environmentally unfriendly method that might just be a 
short-term solution.While the severity of the state’s drought is news to Southern Califor -
nians, the Bay Area fishermen and the Central Valley farmers have 
been duking it out for years over who’s the bigger water waster. 
The fishermen and their environmentalist backers blame the farmers 
for polluting the air, draining the water table and, now, feeling entitled to 
the Bay Area’s water. The farmers, on the other hand, say the fishermen 
have let 1.3 trillion gallons of fresh water drain into the ocean to benefit 
the tiny Delta smelt.
It’s easy for these sides to vilify one another, and certainly both indus -
tries could do better to conserve water. But each of these industries is an 
economic giant, with salmon fishermen alone supporting a $1.5 billion 
industry. The farmers, on the other hand, produce about one-fourth of 
the nation’s food, and each time their water expenses go up, the price of 
food continues to go up as well. 
While it might seem that these two industries are 
fundamentally at odds, it’s in our best interests 
now to find solutions that help both of them 
and Californians’ water woes.
Whether it’s re-stocking the smelt popula -
tion in other rivers away from the pumps, 
encouraging the use of drip irrigation or simply 
saving the fresh water that’s being dumped into 
the ocean, literally anything is better than throw -
ing away the water our state so desperately needs.
California’s Drought Is a Serious Nightmare
Aleksandra Konstantinovic
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Andrew E. Huang
MANAGING EDITOR
Cassia Pollock
OPINION EDITOR
Kriti Sarin
ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITOR
Marcus Thuillier
SPORTS EDITOR
Kyle Somers
ASSOCIATE A&E EDITOR
Rosina Garcia
COPY EDITOR
The UCSD Guardian is published twice weekly at the 
University of California at San Diego. Contents © 2015. 
Views expressed herein represent the majority vote of the edi -
torial board and are not necessarily those of the UC Board of 
Regents, the ASUCSD or the members of the Guardian staff. EDITORIAL  BOARD
Shriveled Up
Corporations such as Starbucks get away with exporting 
precious water bottles from California’s limited supply. Disputes deepen between the economic influences of  farmers 
and fisherman as they battle over finite water resources.
Although desalination is a costly investment, this 
method may offer a nearly infinite source of  water.While urban water use is not solely responsible for 
the drought, recycled greywater may prove useful.EDITORIALS
Marcus thuillier  //
A y a t amin 
opinion@ucsdguardian.orgAcross the globe
illustration by Elyse YamgOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 7, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
CONFUSED MUSED By Elyse Yang
GOT ISSUES?
BE HEARD
BY YOUR PEERS!SEND YOUR 
LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGsee more at
Financial Aid Ofﬁ ce 2015–2016
complete and submit your veriﬁ cation worksheet, use the IRS Data Retrieval Tool ,If you have been selected for veriﬁ cation, 
and/or provide other information by the May 21  deadline.
www.fafsa.ed.gov
www.CalDreamAct.org
FINANCIAL AID DEADLINE
MAY 21, 2015 
JUNE 17 , 2014
MAY 1, 2010
GET YOURS.
To be considered  for the best financial aid packag e, yo u must hav e subm itted your FAFSA or Ca lifornia Drea m Act Application by 
March 2 and submit all missing documents and/or  clear all processi ng hold s listed on y our TritonLink Financial Aid checkl ist by the  
May 21st deadline.  Applications completed after the deadlines WILL NOT be considered for University Gran ts, SEOG, Work Study, 
Univers ity or Perkins Loans.   
MAY 21, 2015WEEKENDARTS   |   FOOD & DRINK   |   LIVING   |   FILM  &  TV   |   MUSIC   |   THINGS  TO  DO
here they  
go  again  
by Kyle Somers  // Associate A&E Editor & Photo by Taylor Sand            erson/ Guardian
Any student who saw OK Go at Sun God Festival 
2015 can attest to the band’s ability to put on a 
true show rather than just to go up on stage and 
play music. In fact, in the past few Sun God Festivals, 
it may have been the only group to know UCSD well 
enough to shout out on May 3 at RIMAC Field, “Hey, 
is this a nerd school?!” to which thousands of Tritons 
loudly cheered. But many students fairly unfamiliar with 
OK Go might not realize that its performance at the fes -
tival was merely a shadow of what the band is capable of 
putting on, like the headlining act at the House of Blues 
in downtown San Diego last Friday, May 1.
To give an idea of the kind of show OK Go gave at the 
House of Blues, just understand that the confetti-and-
graphics extravaganza at the Sun God Festival paled in 
comparison to what it did downtown. Band members 
danced around in suits with invisible ink that glowed 
phosphorescent under black lights. For one of the 
songs, they recorded the audience making noises and 
used it as the track.
Bassist Tim Nordwind gave the band’s philosophy 
when planning out one of its spectacular shows.
“When we put on a live show, a lot of bands just go 
and play music, ” Nordwind told the UCSD Guardian. 
“But we take a look at what we can do from a lighting 
perspective or a movement perspective or a technology 
perspective, and we try to make our concerts into multi -
media events with some kind of an emotional arc. ”
For one song, lead singer Damian Kulash got down 
from the stage and walked out into the audience with an 
acoustic guitar, got the whole audience to quiet down 
and played “Last Leaf ” without a microphone. At that 
moment, even a lot of the grown men in the audience had a massive high school-esque crush on the guy.
When performing in a more intimate venue — at 
least one relative to the Sun God Festival — the band 
has a tendency to make everything more personal, much 
like how it did with “Last Leaf. ” Apart from venturing 
into the crowd, time between songs was spent as a fairly 
frank Q&A between the audience and the band. In fact, 
contrary to the way some groups shy away from being 
near their fans, OK Go invited anyone who wanted to go 
up and dance on stage with the band while it performed 
the finale, “Here It Goes Again. ”
Though Nordwind expressed an interest in perform -
ing music from throughout OK Go’s career, he discussed 
the cause of the band’s stylistic shift between its second 
album (“Oh No”) and its third (“Of the Blue Colour of 
the Sky”).
“With the third record, we went to a different pro -
ducer who was more supportive of experimenting, ” he 
said. “We used to be more goal-oriented, trying to write 
a stadium anthem for the sake of writing a stadium 
anthem, but these days we just sit down and play with 
sound, and we’ve come up with something more unique 
and experimental than our first two albums. ”
Despite this, Nordwind said that the band still does 
like to play songs off of the first two albums, back from 
the days where it sounds as if the band didn’t take or 
have quite as much creative freedom. In fact, “Get Over 
It, ” which is exactly the kind of stadium anthem from its 
debut album that he was talking about, appeared in both 
the Sun God Festival and House of Blues sets, and the 
crowds went nuts for it — especially those at Sun God 
Festival 2015, since the band wisely decided not to show 
up in SDSU jackets.With glowing costumes and even more confetti, OK Go’s May 1 performance at the House of Blues dwarfed its Sun 
God Festival set. We interviewed bassist Tim Nordwind about the band’s ideas on giving a spectacular show.A&E EDITOR // 
JACQUELINE KIM 
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // 
NILU KARIMI  
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGWEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 7, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
CE-4136
Reverse Transfer Campaign: Ad Male Version E 
n/a 
5”w x 8”h n/a4C newsprint
Guardian (UCSD)czE
Transferability of credit is at the discretion of the receiving institution. It is the student’s responsibility to confirm whether or not 
credits earned at University of Phoenix will be accepted by another institution of the student’s choice. Individual courses are not eligible for federal financial aid. While widely available, not all courses are available in all locations or in both online and on-campus formats. Please check with a University Enrollment Representative. The University’s Central Administration is located at 1625 W. Fountainhead Pkwy., Tempe, AZ 85282. Online Campus: 3157 E. Elwood St., Phoenix, AZ 85034.
© 2015 University of Phoenix, Inc. All rights reserved.  |  CE-4136
Watch how easy it is at 
phoenix.edu/transfercredits.   
Learn more at 866-857-5020.Problem:  
You can’t get the courses  
you need at your own school.
Solution:  
Take ours online. Transfer the credits. 
Graduate on time.
CE-4136_E_5x8_Male_r4.indd   1 3/6/15   4:11 PM
There is no doubt that the 
World War II period drama 
“Little Boy, ” even by the 
standards of the genre, is overly 
cheesy. But as the film goes on, it 
becomes increasingly shameless, 
as racism, history and faith are all 
conveyed with a tasteless sentimen -
tal gloss. “Little Boy” tells the story 
of Pepper Busbee (Jakob Salvati) 
and his uneventful quest to bring 
his father back from the Pacific 
Front of World War II through 
the power of faith. After Pepper’s 
flat-footed, military-aged brother, London (David Henrie), is rejected 
from the military, their father (Mi -
chael Rapaport) must take his place 
in the war. Desperate to bring his 
father home, Pepper begins to com -
plete a list of tasks given to him by 
the town preacher in order to win 
favor from God, among         which 
is the task of befriending the only 
Japanese man in town, Hashimoto 
(Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa).
There isn’t much to this story 
apart from being a vehicle for 
delivering a message about the 
transformative power of faith and the injustice of racism. 
Unfortunately, the story itself is 
completely unremarkable and 
unsubtle, following a predictable 
pattern. No new angle is introduced 
to the plot after the first act, mak -
ing the film feel dragged out even 
though it is only 100 minutes long.
The character of Hashimoto, 
a first-generation Japanese-
American, is perhaps the film’s 
only redeeming quality. After being 
released from an internment camp, 
Hashimoto has been the target of 
racial prejudice and scorn. Tagawa 
brings dignity to this role, convey -
ing a reclusive and misunderstood 
man who becomes a mentor and 
father figure to Pepper. But while 
the character of Hashimoto stands 
out, everything around him falls 
flat. Sure, the movie tries to be 
positive, but the story does not 
work well to convey its message. In a film such as “Gran Torino, ” 
the relationship between a racist 
American and an Asian teenager 
develops over time, and the emo -
tional process of overcoming racial 
prejudice feels real. On the other 
end of the spectrum, Pepper and 
Hashimoto’s relationship in “Little 
Boy” does not develop naturally, 
nor does it ever feel like Pepper has 
to overcome any personal prejudice 
against Japanese people.
Where this film almost manages 
to find success is in exploring its 
theme of racism. The film doesn’t 
shy away from using World War 
II-era racial slurs and isn’t afraid 
to show that real racism against 
Japanese-Americans existed at the 
time. However, many of the ways 
that racism is shown are over-the-
top, with numerous cliches filled 
with unnecessary dramatic pauses 
such as, “I wasn’t talking to you … Jap. ” Ultimately, the theme loses its 
impact. And this is a small part of 
the overall problem with the film, 
which is its annoyingly heavy-
handed sentimentalism. Characters 
pause in the middle of their sen -
tences in order to sound dramatic. 
Every character, with the exception 
of Hashimoto, acts over-the-top 
and lacks depth or nuance. It is a 
combination of the overly sappy 
dialogue and the actors’ poor deliv -
ery that makes nothing in the film 
feel real or carry emotional weight. 
The story of “Little Boy” is simply 
a vehicle for as much sentimental 
dialogue and tear-jerking moments 
as possible. 
  — Naft ali Burakovsky 
Staff WriterFILM   REVIEW
Directed by  Alejandro Gomez Monteverde
Starring   Jakob Salvati, Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa, Emily Watson, Michael Rapaport
Rated PG-13
Release Date April 24Weighed down by aggressive sentimentalism, this 
period drama is phony and nearly emotionless.Little     BoyPHOTO USED WITH PERMISSION FROM OPEN ROAD FILMS8     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 7, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
Microwavable Meals  RECIPE
Quiche in a Mug by Brittney Lu, Staff Writer
For those sick of breakfast burritos and cereal, this quick and healthy 
recipe is perfect to fuel your busy morning.
•	1 egg
•	1 pinch each salt and pepper (which you can steal from dining halls)
•	4 or 5 cherry tomatoes
•	1 tablespoon Cheddar cheese, grated
•	1 1/2 tablespoons whole milk
•	1/2 slice bread
•	Fresh herbs (optional )
Cut the cherry tomatoes in half and tear the bread into bite-sized pieces. 
In a large microwaveable mug, beat together the egg, milk and salt and 
pepper. 
Top with cheese, tomatoes, bread cubes and herbs of your choice.
Microwave on high for one minute. 
The result should be a fluffy, cheesy concoction perfect for a (relatively) 
fresh breakfast in the dorm.  
Recipe adapted from fullthymestudent.com
Peanut Butter Cake by Brittney Lu, Staff Writer
With only three ingredients, even the laziest don’t have an excuse to 
opt out of making this cake.
•	3 tablespoons smooth peanut butter
•	1 egg
•	1 1/3 tablespoons sugar
Mix all the ingredients together in a 
microwave-safe mug.
Microwave for one minute. 
Y ou should end up with a light, semi-sweet cake perfect for a late-night bite.
Recipe adapted from kirbiecravings.comMac and Cheese in a Mug by Monica McGill, Senior Staff Write r
The quickest way to comfort food.
•	1/3 cup elbow noodles 
•	1/2 cup water
•	1/4 cup milk 
•	1/2 cup cheddar cheese, shredded 
In a microwave-safe mug, combine water and noodles. 
Microwave mug on high for two minutes. 
Repeat for two to four more minutes, stirring every two minutes. The water 
should absorb completely and the noodles should be completely cooked. 
Remove mug from microwave and stir in milk and cheese. 
Microwave for one more minute and then enjoy! 
Recipe adapted from babble.com 
Honey Soy Chicken   by Yulin Liu, Staff Writer 
Y ou only need three ingredients to make these deliciously sweet chicken 
wings!
•	8 chicken wings 
•	2 tablespoons soy sauce
•	Honey to taste
•	Pepper and garlic powder to taste
Rinse the wings. 
Dry and place the wings into a bowl. If any of the wings are relatively large, 
cut a long line right down the middle so that the thick part cooks more easily. 
Add soy sauce, honey, pepper and garlic powder to the bowl. Mix thorough -
ly and let sit for half an hour. If you are in a rush, you can skip this step.
On a plate, arrange the wings. Cover the plate with a light lid and microwave 
on high for 2 1/2 minutes.
Take them out, turn them over and microwave for another 2 1/2 minutes. 
After taking the heated wings out, check the cut in the chicken to make sure 
it’s fully cooked.                                     WEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 7, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
Associated Students at UC San Diego ser ves 
as the voice of the students,  encouraging 
communication and unity within the campus 
community through leadership,  advocac y 
and ser vices.  For more information on ho w 
to get involved,  visit as.ucsd.edu.For mor e inf o, visit as.ucsd. edu
Get involved!
with the
Associated Students
as.uc sd.edu
asucsd asucsdKindred  
by  p assion  pit
Release Date April 21
Indie-pop band returns with stimulating 
dance anthems amid some misguided tunes.ALBUM   REVIEW
Catchy enough for dance par -
ties and indie enough for 
hipsters, Passion Pit has 
learned to tiptoe down the nar -
row line between underground and 
mainstream. Despite being over -
played on the radio, the band’s 2012 
electro-pop hit “Take a Walk” still 
leads to jumping party mobs and 
sold-out shows. Shockingly, the 
up-and-coming group was forced 
to cut short its 2012 tour due to 
health concerns for the frontman, 
Michael Angelakos, who struggles 
with bipolar disorder. Rebound -
ing from these personal issues, 
the band seeks the same addictive 
style of earlier music, focusing on 
heavy electronic synthesizer and 
captivating vocals in its newest al -
bum called “Kindred. ”
The new 10-track release be -
gins with the upbeat and stimulat -
ing sound of “Lifted Up (1985), ” 
which showcases the same dynamic 
sound that propelled the band to 
stardom. Similar energy appears in 
“Five Foot Ten (I)” and “Until We 
Can’t (Let’s Go), ” which both bring 
powerful beat drops and an invigo -
rating dance feel. At various points 
however, the album leaves listeners 
searching for the vitality and power 
that elevated Passion Pit’s music to 
the next level in the past. “Kindred” 
peaks in terms of both energy and 
quality with the first track, but the 
vibrancy fades to slower tempo songs like “Where the Sky Hangs” 
and “Looks Like Rain. ” While some 
songs may lose some of their lively 
essence, Passion Pit provides tracks 
throughout the album that refresh 
the intensity and restore the fist-
bumping spirit. 
The album strives to achieve the 
same exhilarating feel that propelled 
the band to fame, but “Kindred” 
wrestles with thematic depth, focus -
ing on love and life’s problems. An -
gelakos reflects in “Until We Can’t 
(Let’s Go), ” “But the walls are collid -
ing/ Let’s go out and find ourselves 
a home. ” Passion Pit’s writing also 
exhibits a philosophy of us-versus-
them, presenting a strong concept 
of a united “we” in a war against 
“this Godforsaken place. ” This sense 
of conflict with the world and the 
obstacles to love appear as a crucial 
theme throughout “Kindred” and 
could reflect Angelakos’ battle with 
bipolar disorder and balancing rela -
tionships. While the themes of love 
and loss can be cliched and over -
used, Angelakos combines his style 
and lyrical content to successfully 
reach a level of profundity missing 
in most popular music with themes 
that connect with modern lifestyles. 
—    Peter Mcinnis
Contributing  Writer
heir s
by  and  so  i  w a tch  you  from  af ar
Release Date  May 4
Irish post-rockers successfully find balance between their roots and 
math-rock guitar indulgence but fall short of their debut’s intensity.ALBUM   REVIEW
Post-rock as a genre can often 
simply suffocate itself under its 
own self-importance. Giants 
like Godspeed Y ou!, Black Emperor’s 
30-minute-long instrumental and 
spoken-word songs about geopolitical 
conflicts can induce eye-rolling as of -
ten as actual admiration.
Consequently, Irish post-rockers 
And So I Watch Y ou From Afar were 
a breath of fresh air when they arrived 
on the scene in 2009 with their self-ti -
tled debut. With all the brainy panache 
required of the genre, their balance 
between soft melody and heavy dis -
sonance in a tightly contained package 
is as welcome in a punk club as on a 
critic’s best-of list.
Their second album, “Gangs, ” saw 
the band descending into math-rock 
quirkiness, with solid, strong structure 
often taking a backseat to weird guitar 
noises. Luckily, though, “Heirs” is a re -
turn to form. It’s not a complete rever -
sion to their post-rock roots, but rather, 
the band has found a way to incorpo -
rate their frenetic math-rock guitars 
within a post-rock framework. The re -
sult is an amalgamation of crunchy 80s 
hardcore riffs beset with frantic guitar 
solos and reverb-heavy refrains.
The opening track, “Run Home, ” 
sets the standard for the album, with 
Chris Wee’s always-excellent drum -
ming contentedly pounding out heavy 
beats without pushing the margin too 
much. Rory Friers and Niall Kennedy rush into this rhythmic assault, deliver -
ing some incredibly unique guitar solos 
without restraint. Using aggressive yet 
ethereal guitar effects that convey the 
cosmic theme the album cover hints 
at, “Heirs” surpasses even the band’s 
stellar track record in terms of craft -
ing a wall of sound that feels almost 
physical. Even the ambient synth lines 
on the titular track convey the almost 
extraterrestrial aesthetic of this release.
Like many albums putting an ex -
perimental spin on rock music, “Heirs” 
shuns relying on vocals as a storytell -
ing device. Instead, in a style similar 
to math-rocker Marnie Stern, “Heirs” 
has adopted repeated refrains through -out songs. For example, “Redesigned a 
Million Times” repeats the title of the 
track in various ways throughout the 
song until it almost turns into a Bud -
dhist mantra instead of belaboring the 
same point 10 different ways, as many 
bands are wont to do.
Fans of their debut may still be a 
little unsatisfied with a lack of — since 
there’s no better word for it — “epic -
ness, ” a trait which is often a hallmark 
of post-rock. But for a truly unique 
blend of fast-paced rock in a spacey 
aesthetic, “Heirs” delivers.
—    Dieter Joubert
Senior staff Writer 
PHOTO USED WITH PERMISSION FROM US/THEM GROUP10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 7, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
CLASSIFIEDS$
Guar dian Classi/f_ieds ar e FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifieds
BIKES
TREK COCOA 3i (ladies new, black) - $300. 
I have a trek cocoa, looks like an Electra 
Amsterdam. Three speed internal gears, 
aluminum frame, classy looks! Retails for 
$600. Exceptional condition, never rid -
den. Local delivery available. Listing ID: 
146585639 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
COASTER 1 (ladies, yellow) - $195. I have an 
unridden ladies Electra Coaster 1, sun yel -
low for $195 OBO. Lists for $399. Aluminum 
frame, factory graphics, great bike. Local 
delivery available. Listing ID: 146585636 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
informationKHS Bike Brentwood - $125. Black 17in. 
Terrific condition. High end upgrades. 
Cleaning out storage unit and do not need. 
Listing ID: 146585635 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
BOATS
2007 Sea Ray 48 Sundancer Boat for Sale - 
$469000. Outfitted with a unique, electric 
windshield vent system that allows for an 
unbroken line from deck to roof plus a 
sleek hardtop with two extra-large sunroof 
hatches, this ingeniously designed beauty 
is nothing short of inspired. Listing ID: 
146585745 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
30’ Hunter 306 2004 - $49500. Wait until 
you see this super clean 306 Hunter! Listing 
ID: 146585744 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
Lowland Yachts Motor Yacht - $559000. 
25-percent price drop as Partners Split - 
Must sell fast! New bottom paint, ready 
to take you anywhere you want to go. All 
credible offers considered! “Full Circle” is a 
Dutch built, all aluminum vessel. Listing ID: 
146585743 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
AUTO
Ford F-250 Ranger - $3000. 1976 Ford 
Aspire Used. 64,000 miles, Private Party, 
Truck, Silver, Good condition, Manual. 
Listing ID: 146579583 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
2004 Lexus ES 330 - $5000. I have a 2004 
Lexus 330 ES for sale. Vehicle has a clean 
title, leather interior and has 200k miles. 
Listing ID: 145381443 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
t
your vision,
our missi on.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom a pparel to 
promote your student 
organiza tion with Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
www.ucsdguardian.org/advertising
.com/ucsdguardian
asgraphicstudioApply to
asgraphicstudio@ucsd.edu
*include resume & design samples/ portfolio
graphic
artistswantedgraphic
artistswantedComplete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies 
on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.ukLevel: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
Level:
12
34Level:
12
34Level: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
SUDOKU
Mercedes-Benz SL-Class SL - $2000. 
1995 Mercedes Benz SL 500 Hard-Top 
Convertible (with Soft-Top in excellent 
condition with Rare Wind Screen deflec -
tor). Clean condition and runs excellently. 
Listing ID: 144508868 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972WANT TO WORK 
ACROSS THE STREET 
FROM THE BEACH?
25 hours a weekPaid summer internship 
opportunity. San Diego-based 
tech startup seeking a journalism 
or communications major.
marie@neuacademic.comSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 7, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
Friday, May 8, The Loft, 8PM
Free for UCSD Students   $10 general admissionSomeKindaWonderfultained a near-perfect 3.90 GPA.
“I think what sets all student-
athletes apart is the work ethic 
required to succeed and make it 
through each day, ” Baker told the 
UCSD Guardian. “Between classes, 
practices, weights, meetings, study -
ing and tests, it truly is a test of time 
management and dedication to get 
everything done and still remember 
why we love what we do. At UCSD, 
the rigorous academic standards 
and competition make that even 
more of an accomplishment. ”
Senior Annahita Haghighi is no 
different — the communications 
major has been taking upwards of 
20 units per quarter and has com -
mitted to the requisite 20 hours of 
practice time for rowing. Her GPA 
sits at a perfect 4.0.
On occasion, I’ve heard a flat 
statement of “our sports teams 
suck, ” but this simply isn’t true ei -
ther. For the past eight years, UCSD 
has been number one on the Na -
tional Collegiate Scouting Associa -
tion’s Power Rankings for Division-
II Programs. The Power Rankings 
take a few different factors into 
account: graduation rate, U.S. News 
and World Report rankings and 
Learfield Director’s Cup ranking. 
UCSD placed at 14th, 37th and 
13th, respectively, in 2014. Average 
the three out, and we get a solid 21 
as our “power score, ” leading the 
rankings by a huge margin. 2014 
second-place Hillsdale College had 
a power score of 54 — 33 points shy 
of the Tritons’ comfortable position 
at the top.
In 2014, we finished 13th in 
the Learfield Sports Director’s Cup 
out of 246 Division-II programs, 
and we’ve won five of the past nine 
California Collegiate Athletic Asso -
ciation Commissioner’s Cup titles. 
Both titles are symbolic of the best 
athletic department that Division-II 
has to offer.
Our NCAA and CCAA titles also speak for themselves. Since 
the birth of Triton athletics, our 
teams here have captured over 220 
national, regional and conference 
titles. We’ve won 30 champion -
ships, 43 runners-up titles and 47 
third-place honors at the national 
level. We’ve also had 138 individual 
national champions, and 1,210 of 
our athletes have been named to 
All-American teams.
“ A lot of people are doing really 
amazing things in a variety of dis -
ciplines. However, it just happens 
that our national community tends 
to find a camaraderie in athletics, ” 
senior track and fielder Anneke Ka -
kebeen said. “It provides something 
rather uncontroversial that a group 
of similar people can get behind 
and form a community around even 
if they aren’t directly participating. ”
If we look at schools like the 
University of Southern California 
and UCLA, we find that this is 
definitely the case. UCLA just had 
a record-breaking year for student 
attendance at athletic events — 
basketball games alone saw over 
6,000 fans per game. With over 
30,000 graduate and undergradu -
ate students at UCSD, we should 
have the same capability to fill seats 
at games. Now, it’s just a matter of 
building team spirit by rallying our 
fellow students together outside of 
academics for a change.
“If, over time, the student body 
can rally around athletics as a bind -
ing agent, it will not only connect 
students to each other but also to 
alumni, as well as other universi -
ties, through friendly competition, ” 
Kakebeen said. “I’ve seen University 
of Kansas fans in bars on Mission 
Beach cheering for Jayhawks bas -
ketball games on a screen together. 
Increasing that athletic coverage 
and building that network is valu -
able because of how it brings people 
together. ”▶ MIND OF AN ATHLETE,  from page 12
WWP:   
MWP:      
WVB:       
WTrack :  
MTrack:  
WTennis:     
WSwim:   
MSwim:
WSoc: 
WCrew:   
SoftB:       
BaseB:        
WX-C:      
WBB:      
MBB:   WWPA Champions 2011, 2012, 2014, 2015
 WWPA Champions 1991, 1992, -1993, 1995, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2002, 2006, 2011, 2013, 2014
 NCAA D-I Runner-Up 2000
 CCAA Champions 2004
 NCAA D-II Regional Champions 2007
 CCAA Champions 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009
 Four Individual NCAA D-II Champions:
  Christine Merrill: 2009 (400-meter Hurdles) 
  Linda Rainwater: 2009 (High Jump), 2008 (Heptathlon)
  Whitney Johnson: 2008 (Triple Jump)
 CCAA Champions 2015
 Two Individual NCAA D-II Champions:
 Nick Howe: 2010, 2011 (Javelin)
 CCAA Champions 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010
 NCAA Third Place 2001, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013
 25 NCAA D-II Individual/Relay Champions
 Winners of seven straight PCSC titles (2015)
 NCAA Runner-Up 2011, 2012
 14 NCAA D-II Individual Champions
 Winners of seven straight PCSC titles (2015)
 CCAA Champions 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2005, 2006, 2008, 2012
 NCAA D-II Champions 2000, 2001
 NCAA D-II Runner-Up 2010
 NCAA D-II Regional Champions 2006, 2010
 NCAA D-II Runner-Up 2007, 2008
 CCAA Champions 2012
 NCAA D-II Champions 2011
 NCAA D-II Regional Champions 2011, 2012
 CCAA Champions 2005, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2014
 NCAA D-II Regional Champions 2009, 2010
 CCAA Champions 1997, 2005
 One NCAA D-II Regional Champion:
 Mimi Hodgins: 2005
 CCAA Champions 2007, 2008, 2013
 NCAA DII Regional Champions 2007
 CCAA Champions 2008
*Data compiled from ncaa.com, goccaa.org and ucsdtritons.comSt a tistics  b y SportSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
MARCUS THUILLIER
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 7, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
  Tritons Conclude
Regular Season Play
The No. 26 Tritons concluded their regular baseball season with a split-
venue California Collegiate Athletic Association four-game series against 
Cal State Los Angeles last weekend with mixed results. Saturday night’s 
loss at Triton Ballpark closed out the Tritons’ bid for the CCAA regular-season 
title, but with the second postseason seed, UCSD remains competitive for the 
league championship in Stockton, California. UCSD finishes the season 32–17 
overall and 27–13 in the CCAA. 
UCSD lost the series opener in Los Angeles, 3–2, after standout junior right-
handed pitcher Justin Donatella (8–2) started the first frame by giving up four 
singles in a row. Donatella worked out of the funk in subsequent frames and 
ultimately kept his banner year intact with a CCAA-best 0.86 ERA.
“Early in that first inning, he was making mistakes with two-strike counts, ” 
UCSD Head Coach Eric Newman told the UCSD Athletics Department. “He left 
balls up out over the plate. He wasn’t as sharp yet. [Cal State Los Angeles] did 
what you’re supposed to do, and they got some hits. That’s baseball. Y ou never 
know when the inning’s going to come. Y ou like the fact that, if it happens early, 
at least you have some game to try to get back in it. ”
The Tritons capitalized on some fielding errors by the Golden Eagles but failed 
to overcome the three runs given up early in the game.
Friday’s follow-up at Reeder Field in LA saw the Triton offense surge behind a 
strong performance from senior left-handed pitcher Trevor Scott (7–5). Scott al -
lowed seven hits on seven frames, but only one of those turned into a run in the 
6–1 victory. The southpaw also struck out eight, including four in a row.“It was a really good night, ” Scott told the UCSD Athletics Department. “The 
first time through the order, they hadn’t figured out my change-up, so I was 
going to that quite a bit. My slider was on today, and my fastball had a lot of 
movement and had a lot of late life on it. I felt like I was able to neutralize their 
offense a little bit, especially early in the game. As it got later, I had to start pitch -
ing a little bit more. … I got some double plays. I had a lot of strikeouts tonight, 
so it was definitely fun for me. ”
Saturday’s Senior Day doubleheader saw UCSD win 7–4 in the day’s first game 
but fall 3–2 in a seven-inning nightcap. The last game loss to the Golden Eagles 
helped No. 18 Cal Poly Pomona secure the regular season CCAA title, but the 
Tritons will still move into the postseason in possession of the second seed.
A whopping eight seniors were honored on Senior Day: Scott, right-handed 
pitcher Javier Carrillo Jr., catcher Brian Choi, right-handed pitcher Dan Kolo -
din, catcher Brett Levy, infielder Erik Lewis, outfielder Michael Mann and left-
handed pitcher Chad Rieser.
UCSD baseball will look to defend the title acquired last year when the team 
faces Cal State Monterey Bay on Thursday at 7 p.m. in Stockton before eventu -
ally advancing to face the winner of first-seed Cal Poly Pomona’s contest against 
fourth-seed Cal State Dominguez Hills on Friday.UCSD moves into CCAA Championships as second seed.
W ritten by John Story // Photo by Emily Tipton
#4 CSU Dominguez Hills
#1 Cal Poly PomonaGame 1 Loser
Game 2 Loser
Game 4 Loser
Game 6 Loser, if First Loss#2 UCSD
#3 CSU Monterey BayGAME  1  @   3 P.M.
GAME  2 @   7P.M.
GAME  4 @   7P.M.GAME  6 @   7P.M.
GAME  7 @   12P.M.GAME  3 @   3P.M.
GAME  5 @   3P.M.readers can contact
John Stor y    jstory@ucsd.edu 
UCSD Students Still Searching for a Little Team SpiritKa tie Potts // Editorial assist ant
kpotts@ucsd.edu  MIND OF AN A THLETE
UCSD has academic talent 
galore. It’s consistently ranked in 
the top-20 best universities around 
the globe because of its excellence 
in research and collaboration on 
the international level. The CEO of 
GoPro is a UCSD alumnus and so is 
famed director and Academy Award 
winner Benicio Del Toro. We have 
students at the top of their fields in 
the classroom, but the classroom isn’t 
the only place to excel here at UCSD.
What many students tend to 
overlook here on campus is the 
student-athletes, who not only excel 
in their academic field but on the playing field as well. There are ban -
ners on campus that proclaim “#1 in 
Division-II Sports, ” but few students 
seem to acknowledge our strengths 
outside of academics.
RIMAC Arena has enough seat -
ing for 5,000 spectators, yet for the 
past several years, average atten -
dance at basketball and volleyball 
games has been less than 20 percent 
of that number. Triton Ballpark is 
equipped to seat 1,000 fans; Triton 
Soccer Stadium can hold 1,250. 
The average number of seats filled 
at baseball and soccer games isn’t 
much higher either — both stadi -ums see only about 25 to 30 percent 
of those spaces filled at any given 
game.
If we consider who’s spectating at 
athletic events, we see an even grim -
mer picture of how underrated and 
under-supported sports at UCSD 
can be. How many of the people in 
the crowd are parents? How many 
of them are fans of the opposing 
team? Factor in those numbers, and 
we realize how few students actually 
show up to games.
So what are the reasons behind 
this? The excuse of not having the 
time comes up often enough — UCSD is a prestigious university, 
and it has the rigorous and challeng -
ing curriculum to prove it. Once 
midterms roll around, students tend 
to hole up in the library or at home 
in their rooms, nose in book, trying 
to adequately prepare.
Is this really a sufficient excuse, 
though? Freshman softball out -
fielder Kendall Baker is one who 
can turn that kind of reasoning 
on its head. In her first year alone, 
the player has tackled 20 hours of 
practice per week and has still main -
See MIND OF AN ATHLETE , page 11
Baseball
W. Crew
W. Water Polo
W. Crew
Track and Field5/7     
5/8     
5/8     
5/9     
5/9AT CCAA Championships
AT Dad Vail Regatta
AT NCAA Championships
AT Dad Vail Regatta
AT CSULA Last Chance QualifierUPCOMING
UCSD
GAMES