VOLUME 48, ISSUE 30  THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 5, 2015 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
PHOTO TEASE 
GOES HERE
CAPTION PREVIEWING THE 
ARTICLE PAIRED WITH THE 
PHOTO TEASE. FOR EXAMPLE 
IF THE PHOTO WERE OF A BABY 
YOU WOULD SAY “BABIES 
SUCK! THEY ARE WEAK AND 
UNINTELLIGENT! PAGE 7”
USUALL Y  OPINION  TEASE
OFTEN  A  SPORTS  TEASEBEBAS  NEEDS  TWO  SP ACES
wut  is  a  basket-ball?SECTION,  P age   _
section,  P age  _
TOMORRO
H XX L XXIZ SATRDAY
H XX L XX
N’SUNDAY
H XX L XXCUM AFTR
H XX L XX
FORECAST
VERBATIM
PULL A 
QUOTE FROM 
A COLUMN 
HERE! FOR 
EXAMPLE, 
‘I DON’T 
UNDERSTAND 
WHY ALLIE CAN’T ASCRIBE 
WORDS TO THEIR PROPER 
USAGES.’ -KELVIN NORONHA”
- Columnist name here
COLUMN TITLE HERE
SECTION , PAGE _
INSIDE
USUALLY A CORRECTION  .X
OPINION SOMETHING  ......X
WEEKEND/FEATURE  ........ X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU  ....X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW  ...X“
SECTION,  P AGE  _2015 
GRAMMYS
The UCSD Guardian takes on 
this year’s best music and 
biggest hitmakers to create our 
list of favorites to win the 2015 
Grammy’s. Our pick for best 
single? Taylor Swift’s “Shake it 
Off.” Read on to find out more.
S  IS  FOR  STUDENT  SPIRIT
UCSD's   social scene  woes 
baseball  debuts    ballp arkOPINION,  P age   4
sports,  P age  12
THURSDAY
H 75 L 54FRIDAY
H 77 L 52
SATURDAY
H 75 L 55SUNDAY
H 72 L 55
FORECAST
VERBATIM
IT WOULD BE WAY MORE FUN 
TO POINT AT ONE CURRENT 
OR PAST MEMBER OF A.S. 
COUNCIL OR EVEN BETTER 
AN ADMINISTRATOR AND SAY 
“THIS IS ALL YOUR DOING.” 
BUT THAT’S JUST NOT THE 
CASE. IT HAS TAKEN A LONG 
TIME TO GET US WHERE WE 
ARE...”
-SOREN NELSON
POINT OF ORDER
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
SCIENCE AND TECH  ........ 2
STUDENT REGENTS  ........ 3
REVIEWS  ......................... 8
SUDOKU  ....................... 10
M. VOLLEYBALL  ........... 12“weekend,  P AGE  6  
IMAGE BYJENNA MCCLOSKEY/GUARDIAN
OPENING  WITH  STYLEATHLETICS
Renovated Ballpark Hosts 
First Games of  the Season
After four months of construction, the newly renovated 
Triton Ballpark opened with its first doubleheader games 
of the season on Feb. 1. Although construction of certain 
outdoor amenities will not be complete until April, the 
UCSD baseball team will continue to host games at the new 
ballpark for the remainder of the season.
Senior Associate Athletics Director Ken Grosse told the 
UCSD Guardian that, while the baseball field has always 
accommodated players’ needs, the ballpark’s other facilities 
were in need of renovation.
“The field has always been top-notch, but the outside 
amenities have not been up to par with the rest of our     
facilities, ” Grosse said. “The players were literally using a 
doublewide trailer as a clubhouse. There were no permanent 
restrooms out here and no stands — they were all tempo -
rary. With [five] coaches and 36 players on the baseball 
team, it just wasn’t a very good [situation]. ”
The finished ballpark will feature a 4,000-square-foot 
clubhouse named after UCSD’s seventh chancellor Marye 
Anne Fox complete with locker rooms, showers, laundry 
facilities, coaches’ offices and a Hall of Fame. According 
to a UCSD press release, Fox was a key member of the original plans for Triton Ballpark and strongly advocated               
renovations that improved athletics facilities during her 
time as chancellor.
UCSD Athletics Director Earl W . Edwards said in the 
same press release that the improvements that have been 
made to the field will improve the university’s baseball pro -
gram as a whole.
“Having a facility to match the excellence of our talented 
student-athletes will contribute greatly to our team spirit 
and Triton pride, ” Edwards said. “In addition, it will allow 
us to recruit more high-quality student-athletes, host sig -
nificant tournaments at UC San Diego and provide a better 
experience for spectators, who play a key role in our success 
each year.
Additional key amenities that fans can expect include a 
press box, designated areas for food trucks, full functioning 
restrooms and permanent grandstand seating arrangements 
for spectators, which Grosse said will enhance the overall 
atmosphere of the game.
“It’s going to be a way better experience. The seats are all 
way closer to the field, giving fans a better view of the game, ” 
Grosse explained. “The players have new dugouts on both   B y  Kriti  sarin    Editorial assistant
UCSD announced that it is 
making bicycle and pedestrian 
improvements as well as 
constructing a bicycle path on 
Peterson Hill in a Jan. 23 press 
release. Construction commenced 
on Feb. 2 and is expected to be 
completed before September of this 
year.
Assistant Project Manager Jamie 
Bohannan informed the UCSD 
Guardian of the many components 
of this construction project, known 
as the University Center Bike and 
Pedestrian Improvements Project.
“This over two-acre project 
will provide grove reforestation, 
new open space, two new class-
one bike lanes as well as a new 
pedestrian stair and accessible ramp on Peterson Hill, ” Bohannan 
said. “This is one of a few projects 
starting up construction that is 
aimed at improving the existing 
infrastructure on campus. ”
Bohannan also said that the 
bike lane will allow bicyclists 
to access Geisel Library while 
avoiding Library Walk, a bicycle 
dismount zone, while the additional 
pedestrian path will connect the 
university’s core to other heavily 
traveled areas.
Student Sustainability 
Collective’s Director of Internal 
Development Kyle Heiskala, who 
was assigned to lead the project by 
former A.S. President Andy Buselt, 
told the Guardian he thinks that 
the new pathway will improve both 
transportation efficiency and safety 
for students.
“These improvements will 
encourage students to use bikes as a viable means of getting around 
campus, ” Heiskala said. “Once 
completed, circulation in the center 
of campus will be greatly improved 
for everyone, and safe, efficient 
biking will increase as well. ”
Heiskala also expressed his 
satisfaction that the project is 
coming to fruition after Buselt set it 
as a top priority in fall of 2013.
“I have been accompanying it 
along the way as it has progressed 
through various stages of design 
and approval, ” Heiskala said. “It is 
amazing to see the power of students 
and long-term collaboration 
producing such results. ”
The university has set up a 
construction fence with borders 
consisting of Peterson Hill, 
Mandeville Lane, the Faculty Club 
and Library Walk. The construction Black History 
Month Events 
Commence in 
Price CenterCAMPUS
Participants sought to bring 
awareness to issues facing the 
African Americans through 
different forms of expression.
B Y  BR YNNA  BOL T
STAFF WRITER
The UCSD Black Student Union 
hosted the Black History Month 
Opener Monday, Feb. 2 in Price 
Center Plaza. The event was meant 
to welcome UC students, faculty, staff 
and members of the surrounding 
community in kicking off a series of 
events lasting from Jan. 25 through 
March 7. 
The event began around               
12:20 p.m. with the introductions 
of BSU Retention Coordinator 
Andre Thompson and Traditions 
Coordinator Victoria Gichohi. Other 
officers of the BSU subsequently 
introduced themselves. 
Gichohi, who helped plan the 
event along with BSU Chair Jazzalyn 
Livingston, said that she considered 
the opener a success despite a difficult 
planning process. 
“Jazzalyn and I did our best to 
reach out to current students and staff, 
such as Edwina Welch, director of the 
Cross-Cultural Center here at UCSD, ” 
Gichohi told the UCSD Guardian. 
“Without their efforts, this Black 
History Month Opener would have 
not been successful at all. ”
After a rendition of “Black National 
Anthem, ” a song originally written as 
a poem called “Lift Every Voice” by 
James Weldon Johnson in 1899, Welch 
took to the podium to give a talk.
Welch’s presentation, entitled 
“Click Through, ” centered around 
contextualizing history to better 
understand contemporary times.
“I think it’s really important that 
we understand the context of the 
time that we’re in, ” Welch said in her 
talk. “What I want to suggest is that 
we all think, particularly as people 
of UCSD who are going to leave this                
institution to go out and do wonderful 
things in the private sector, nonprofit 
sector and other areas, that maybe 
it’s time for us to slow down a little 
bit, understand the context in which 
we are hearing and seeing things and 
maybe click through. ”
Welch also read from an essay by 
Alicia Garza, the co-creator of the 
social media platform-turned national 
organization, Black Lives Matter. 
The organization, which opposes 
police brutality and practices like racial 
profiling, is currently being represented 
on campus by a collection of materials 
gathered from print and online 
resources called #blacklivesmatter: 
A Century of Resistance to State-
Sanctioned Violence. The exhibit will 
be featured at Geisel Library until the 
end of February.
Student spoken word performances 
followed the conclusion of Welch’s 
speech. Among those performing 
was BSU External Vice Chair Brilon TRANSIT
Bike Path Construction Set to Start Near Peterson
Bicycle and pedestrian improvements are expected to be completed by September 2015. 
B Y   JACKY  TO
STAFF WRITERSee  BALLPARK , page 3
See  PETERSON , page 3
Doctors from the Union of American Physicians and Dentists stage a strike on Library Walk over negotiations with the UC System. 
Photo taken by Siddharth Atre/ UCSD Guardian.
See  BSU , page 3will significantly affect pedestrian 
traffic from Ridge Walk to Library 
Walk at Peterson Hill and the 
Faculty Club for at least six months.
Heiskala then told the Guardian 
that the Student Sustainability 
Collective’s new Bike Committee 
has worked on expanding bike parking in areas near Library Walk 
as well as a campuswide bike-
sharing program.
UCSD’s Director of Marketing 
and Communications Laura 
Margoni also informed   the 
Guardian of other bicycle 
improvement projects that are in 
the works. These projects include 
adding a bike path on the Interstate 5 between Genesee Avenue and 
Voigt Drive, building a new Gilman 
Drive bridge over the I-5 and 
replacing the Voigt Drive bridge 
with one that has dedicated bike 
lanes.
The university also is in the 
planning stages of adding shared 
lane markings and sidewalks to 
Hopkins Lane as well as narrowing the median on Gilman Drive in 
order to fit dedicated bike lanes. 
Margoni indicated that this final 
plan would achieve the goal of 
providing bike lanes throughout the 
entire Campus Loop.
 2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 5, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG N EWS
AVERAGE CAT By Christina Carlson 
#OMG 
#LIKE US
#FOLLOW US
@ucsdguar dian
Registration for WINTER Qtr is NOW open!
Register online at 
as.ucsd.edu/saferides
A.S. Safe Rides allows register ed un dergradua te 
studen ts to  get 3  FREE rides per quarter.
Studen ts must register  at lea st 24 hours
prio r to their first ride.  A.S. Safe Rides 
asucsd asucsdDedicated Bicycle Paths Planned for New Bridge Over Interstate 5 on Gilman Drive
▶ PETERSON,  from page 1
Jacky  to   j6to@ucsd.edu readers can contactUCSD researchers have developed 
a model to predict the spread of 
influenza up to a week in advance, 
with as much accuracy as Google 
Flu Trends can estimate current 
infections. 
The study, published last 
Thursday, Jan. 29 combined “big data” 
compiled from GFT and traditional 
data from the Center for Disease 
Control to assess real-time flu activity 
with better accuracy and to make 
valid predictions about future spread.
GFT operates on the assumption 
that a spike in flu-related Google web 
searches in a geographical region is 
directly correlated with a spike in that 
region’s flu activity. People who have 
the flu are expected to be searching 
the web for indicative symptoms and 
possible remedies. While its system 
has been successful in estimating 
levels of flu infections in real-time (and historically), GFT alone does 
not claim reliability in its estimates 
about the future.
Michael Davidson, first author 
and a doctoral student in political 
science, told the UCSD Guardian that 
the flu prediction model improves 
GFT’s data, which was originally an 
improvement from the CDC’s two-
week delay in disclosing current flu 
trends.
“One of the reasons Google is so 
great is because it can estimate how 
many people are sick [with influenza] 
right now, ” Davidson said. “The CDC 
can [also] estimate it, but it takes 
about two weeks to figure out how 
many people are sick. In our model, 
we can combine those two. ”
In order to predict future flu 
trends, UCSD researchers set out to 
map a nationwide “social network” 
that could provide insight into which 
regions of the country would likely be 
struck with an outbreak next, based 
on the infection activity in regions to 
which they are connected.“Social networks can teach us a 
lot about an individual based on the 
people whom they are connected to, ” 
Davidson said. “We thought we could 
improve this really important tool by 
doing the same thing in the context 
of the flu. ”
There are 10 regions in the United 
States whose borders are defined by 
the Department of Health and Human 
Services. Using data from the CDC 
about which regions experienced 
similar levels of infections at the same 
time over the past year, Davidson 
and his team developed a method to 
predict the movement of influenza 
across the regions. They checked 
their predictions for one week in 
advance at a time against historic 
records and found the model to be 
valid.
The ability to predict influenza 
movement would mean better 
allocation of resources for doctors, 
who could better gauge how many 
vaccines would be needed in a 
given flu season. For data modeling, Davidson says their method shows 
the importance of incorporating 
multiple sources of information.
“The basic principle behind it all 
is that big data doesn’t work the 
best in a vacuum, ” Davidson said. “It 
actually does better when we combine 
it with these traditional sources of 
data [such as those from the CDC]. ”
Expanding the reach of the model 
to predict trends within specific 
states, counties and cities is a future 
goal of researchers; however, doing 
so would require analyzing GFT’s raw 
data — which the team did not access 
— in these places.
“That would be great if we 
had more access to data like that, ” 
Davidson said. “I’m confident that 
Google has the ability to make 
predictions [about flu trends] like 
that, bu  t as of yet if you go on the 
GFT website they say that it’s just 
experimental at the city level. ”Science and technology
Researchers Develop Model To Predict and Track Flu Activity
Data from Google Flu Trends and the Center for Disease Control can track outbreaks of the flu up to a week in advance.
B Y   Teiko  y akobson
Features editor
Teiko  y akobson  Syakobso@@ucsd.edu  readers can contactThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and 
Thursdays during the academic year by UCSD students 
and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this 
newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, 
without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2014, all 
rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible 
for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The 
views expressed herein do not necessarily represent 
the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of 
California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian 
is funded by advertising. Damn Pandas. 
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Audrey Sechrest
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Aleksandra Konstantinovic
Andrew E. Huang  
Taylor Sanderson
Tina Butoiu
Charu Mehra
Brandon Yu
John Story
Teiko Yakobson
Jacqueline Kim
Kyle Somers
Nilu Karimi
Siddharth Atre
Jonathan Gao
Joselynn Ordaz
Elyse Yang
Annie Liu
Rosina Garcia
Laura Chow
Vincent PhamEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
  
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Social Media Coordinator
Training and Development
Page Layout
Sherman Aline, Allison Kubo, Sidney Gao, Brandon Yu
Copy Readers
Andrew Chao, Caroline Lee, Micaela Stone
Editorial Assistants
Shelby Newallis, Jennifer Grundman, Kriti Sarin, 
Karly Nisson, Sasha Pollock, Mario Attie, Marcus Thuillier,sides, sunken and bigger and more 
typical of today’s dugouts. It’s very nice. 
The players love it, the coaches love it 
and the fans are going to love it. ”
Grosse added that an international 
construction company called Turner 
Construction was contracted to build 
the structure and that work on those 
areas of the ballpark that are essential 
for game play were finished just in time 
for the start of the season.
“We weren’t sure if we were actually going to get to play here because they 
were racing to get it done in time for 
this game, ” Grosse said. “Fortunately, 
it happened, and we’re off to a good 
s t a r t .”
The Tritons won both games 
against Western Oregon University on 
Sunday, outscoring the Wolves 4–0 
and 8–3 in the doubleheader games, 
respectively. The UCSD team was also 
triumphant in both of the remaining 
games of the series this week, which 
featured free admission for all fans and 
were played on Feb. 2 and 3.  The four games against Western 
Oregon were collectively the first series 
of the season. The next seven games 
will also be played at home against 
Colorado Mesa University for the 
first two games, San Francisco State 
University for the next four games 
and Point Loma Nazarene University 
for the seventh game. The Tritons will 
play a total of 28 out of 49 games of this 
season in the new ballpark.
Cooper, who performed Maya 
Angelou’s piece “Still I Rise. ” 
BSU Co-Publicity Chair Kyler 
Nathan told the Guardian that the 
spoken word pieces were his favorite 
part of the event.
“The spoken word pieces were 
empowering, ” Nathan said. “ And I got 
to know a more personal side of people 
through them. ”
Before the closing of the event, 
a dance performance was put on by 
Livingston, Gichohi and another 
student, Love Gordon. The event 
ended around 2 p.m. 
Other BSU officers introduced at 
the event included Internal Vice Chair 
Briana Thrift, Co-Retention Chair Derek Van de Streek and Art Historian 
Sabrina Evans. 
Alexandra Villar, a Thurgood 
Marshall College junior in attendance 
at the opener, spoke to the Guardian 
about why she believes events like 
these are important to the UCSD 
community. 
“UCSD students need another 
perspective, ” Villar told the 
Guardian. “It’s lacking the awareness                   
needed in order to understand what’s 
going on today. People are not well-
informed because they haven’t been 
taught anything besides what’s in the 
history books. ”
BSU will be involved with several 
other events occurring on campus 
during the remainder of Black History 
Month. There will be a free showing of the film “Black Power Mixtape” from 
6 p.m. to 8 p.m. in the Black Resource 
Center, and Feb. 4 through Feb. 7 
BSU will also be involved with the 
staging of the play “Venus” by Suzan-
Lori Parks. The play, which is based on 
a true story, will be presented by the 
department of theater and dance. 
Furthermore, BSU, in 
partnership with several other 
UCSD organizations, will be hosting 
a dedication of the Black Legacy 
Mural on the first floor of Price 
Center East. Finally, the Kumba 
Fest will be held Feb. 28 from 7 
p.m. to 9 p.m. in the Price Center 
Multipurpose Room. N EWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 5, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
Looking for the 
New Business 
Column?
Now posted every Wednesday 
night, after the A.S. Council 
meeting, online.
ucsdguardian.orgTritons Triumphed in All Four Games Against Western Oregon
▶ BALLPARK,  from page 1
Black Student Union Will Be Hosting Events Throughout February
▶ BSU,  from page 1
Br ynna  Bol t   bbolt@ucsd.edu readers can contactKriti Sarin   ksarin@ucsd.edu readers can contact
ucsdguardian.orgCHECK OUT OUR WEBSITE ONLINE4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 5, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CHARU  MEHRA
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
ILLUSTRATION BY JENNY PARKInefficient, ineffective and 
underfunded. Those are all 
words that come to mind when 
I think about the current state of 
the A.S. Council. The A.S. Council 
that we look to for leadership and 
solutions — or at least should look 
to — is no longer capable of deliv -
ering on those promises. It’s time 
for this council to fix that.
It’s no one’s fault. It would 
be way more fun to point at one 
current or past member of A.S. 
Council (or, even better, an admin -
istrator) and say “This is all your 
doing!” But that’s just not the case. 
It has taken a long time to get us 
to where we are, and it will take us 
a long time to get us to where we 
need to be. 
As with all things, it comes 
down to the money. The A.S. 
Council brings in somewhere 
between $3 million and $4 million 
every year. Hundreds of thousands 
of dollars go to administrative 
costs, and $500,000 or more goes 
to the Sun God Festival. The rest 
is divided between A.S. offices 
and projects and student organiza -
tion funding. What’s left is pocket 
change compared to what councils 
at other UC schools have at their 
disposal. The reality is that A.S. 
Council has outgrown its income. 
We simply do not have the money 
to do all the things we want to do 
anymore. Our reserves are empty, 
and just last year we ran out of 
money to fund student organiza -
tions months before the end of 
the year. In an age of skyrocket -
ing tuition and constant pleas for 
money from a myriad of campus 
organizations, convincing students 
that A.S. Council is worth spending 
more money on is a tall order. That 
being said, A.S. Council cannot 
afford to postpone a referendum to 
raise student fees. There will never 
be a “good” time to do it, so let’s 
just get it over with. 
Now, I’m not conservative by 
any measure, so what I have to say 
next pains me on a fundamental 
level. The A.S. Council is a bloated 
government. There are just too 
many people representing too many 
interests on for there to be any 
hope of efficient governance. If A.S. 
Council wants to get serious about 
streamlining, it’s time to look at 
what council positions can be cut 
because there are too many cooks 
in this proverbial kitchen. I don’t 
care how you do it — and I’m sure 
most UCSD students don’t either 
— but it’s time to find a way to pare 
down A.S. Council.
At its best, I believe A.S. 
Council is a force to be a reckoned 
with. Our student government 
should be a group any student 
can turn to for help, especially as 
our administration grows increas -
ingly brazen in its attempts to quiet 
student expression. But until A.S. 
Council finds a way to make itself 
more efficient and more effect, that 
just isn’t going to happen. 
 This year’s annual Spirit Night games drew in a 
near-record number of attendees to watch the men 
and women’s basketball teams secure victories 
against Cal State East Bay. But while our enthusiasm that 
night was commendable, it’s a shame that the energy 
died out so quickly afterward. Spirit Night is a classic 
example of UCSD’s tendency to hype up a select few 
events throughout the year while rarely filling in the gaps, 
leaving a rather muted campus atmosphere in their wake. 
If UCSD is to shed its unfortunate and frankly overplayed 
reputation as socially inactive, it’s going to take some 
resolve on our part to change the way we view Spirit Night 
and other campuswide activities. 
Events like Spirit Night demonstrate that, for a campus 
that supposedly lacks any sort of cohesive identity, we 
can still come together and show off a vibrant display of 
spirit, especially when some friendly college competition 
is added into the mix. However, major events like these 
seem far and few between. The basketball games against 
Cal State Monterey Bay held the day following Spirit Night 
had an abysmal turnout — only a fraction of the previous 
night’s crowd. Only truly unique events, such as the 2014 
water polo championships at Canyonview Pool or when 
UC Riverside’s Instagram page featured a Triton mascot 
effigy burning down before the annual homecoming game 
seem to get any rise out of students. Keeping the energy 
going, then, should be a top concern.
While we have repeatedly refused to transition into 
Division-I athletics, our school still boasts a formidable array of sports teams that deserve our support no matter 
what game it is. The men’s basketball team held an 
impressive six-win streak this season, our women’s swim 
team is nationally ranked No. 4 in the division and the 
fencing squads, along with lesser-known club sports, 
consistently emerge victorious against tough Division-I 
foes, providing a welcome alternative to traditional sports 
matches. The fact that they rarely seem to play against 
big names like the University of Michigan, University 
of Southern California and the University of Oregon 
can only be blamed on our staunch commitment to stay 
within the Division-II leagues.
Regardless of which opponents we face, it takes 
only some slight initiative on our part to keep up with 
game schedules and to show our hard-working athletes 
some Triton love. Each residential college has dedicated 
representatives in charge of promoting school spirit, and 
there should be no reason for decorations and tailgates 
to be limited to a single night. Spreading out spirit events 
throughout the year would mean there would always be 
matches to look forward to, incentivizing students to blow 
off steam between their midterms without fighting each 
other for the Spirit Cup. Besides, history has shown that, 
given our current campus climate, hosting only a few 
large-scale events as opposed to multiple smaller ones — 
think Sun God Festival and Hullabaloo — leads to health 
and safety concerns that threaten their viability in the 
future. 
Now, setting athletics aside for the moment, it’s still 
See SPIRIT,  page 5Why A.S. 
Council Is 
Broken and 
How to Fix It 
soren  nelson 
senelson@ucsd.edupoint of order
Students 
For Spirit
UCSD could have a highly unified, social atmosphere like 
the one at Spirit Night year-round if  students were more 
proactive about going out and getting involved. 
Aleksandra Konstantinovic
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Andrew E. Huang
MANAGING EDITOR
Taylor Sanderson
MANAGING EDITOR  
Charu Mehra
OPINION EDITOR
Cassia Pollock
OPINION EDITORIAL ASSISTANT
Tina Butoiu
NEWS EDITOR
Kriti Sarin
NEWS EDITORIAL ASSISTANT
The UCSD Guardian is published twice weekly at the 
University of California at San Diego. Contents © 2014. 
Views expressed herein represent the majority vote of the edi -
torial board and are not necessarily those of the UC Board of 
Regents, the ASUCSD or the members of the Guardian staff. EDITORIAL  BOARD
Last week, some of the UCSD Guardian staff 
had the opportunity to sit down with UC stu -
dent Regent Sadia Saifuddin and her 2015–16 
successor Avi Oved who were on campus to 
promote the student regent position to future 
candidates.
Saifuddin and Oved have had a busy year as 
the student representatives on a much-maligned 
UC Board of Regents, which has raised pay and 
benefits for UC administrators and high-level 
staff while proposing the 5-percent tuition hike 
that caused protests throughout the campuses. 
Saifuddin, to her credit, strongly opposed the 
tuition increases and spoke on behalf of stu -
dents while the regents debated the issue in 
November, and we think we can expect the 
same kind of advocacy from Oved next year.
But even with the hard work of this pair, it’s 
clear that the student regent position is just one 
vote on a board of 18 to 20, meaning that in 
issues like the tuition hike, the voice of students 
is often drowned out.
And while the student regent position is 
undoubtedly valuable, and interested candidates should absolutely apply, its existence is more 
of an afterthought, a minor concession from 
a board who wants to do the bare minimum 
to show that student input is being adequately 
considered.
But in discussing issues like tuition hikes, 
which has put a financial burden right on 
the shoulders of the students, the student 
voice should have more impact than one vote. 
Making room at the table for more than one 
student regent not only allows for that but 
gives the UC system’s 233,000 students more 
avenues to make their diverse and prolific 
opinions heard.
Another possibility is to expand or reaffirm 
the role of the University of California Student 
Association, which was responsible this aca -
demic year for many of the protests that hap -
pened on campus. UCSA was amongst the 
first organizations to suspect incoming tuition 
hikes and organized letter-writing and petition 
drives far ahead of the regents’ vote. The strong 
reaction to the eventual vote, which included 
coordinated protests and sit-ins, made student opinion clear and certainly sent a message that 
prompted our state politicians to act.
UCSA has faced some criticism in the past 
for collecting more membership fees from 
some campuses than others, leading UC Irvine 
to pull out of the organization altogether last 
year. The group could certainly use an over -
haul in its system, but, at its core, it is a unify -
ing force for UC students and the organization 
this past year demonstrated that it could be a 
valuable political tool as well.
UCSA and the student regent are by no 
means at odds. In fact, coordination between 
the two is an ideal way to communicate and 
act on the happenings discussed by the regents. 
But with additional support for the student 
regent, and better organization for the UCSA, 
we could have a cohesive student body govern -
ment that’s even stronger than it was this year.
The student regent application is available 
online now and is due on Feb. 22. We would 
love to see a Triton take on this representative 
role in the UC system and foster it into some -
thing even better.Student Voice on Board of  Regents Is UnderrepresentedOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 5, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
hard to accept why our university 
can’t seem to foster a thriving social 
life. The problem certainly isn’t that 
we don’t offer enough activities: 
Venues like The Loft and Porter’s Pub, 
the college councils and an untold 
plethora of student organizations and 
clubs host everything from movies 
to dances to mixers and bonfires. 
The difficulty seems to be getting 
students to actually attend those 
opportunities. It’s a big campus out 
there and UCSD won’t always spoon-
feed us with opportunities. Perhaps 
it’s that the student body has become 
accustomed to ignoring outreach 
efforts due to the tidal wave of choices 
that one encounters on Library Walk. Whatever the reason, it’s clear 
that current publicity techniques 
are in need of fine-tuning to draw 
in targeted demographics. Not only 
that, bodies like the University Center 
Advisory Board and University 
Centers have to step up their efforts 
to collect public input on the future 
of student spaces like Porter’s Pub, 
whose lease is soon due to expire. 
As for students themselves, getting 
involved isn’t impossible. It means 
taking the time to read the colorful 
posters put up on random light poles. 
It means resolving to show up to 
that one general body meeting or 
semi-formal. We shouldn’t complain 
about being bored if we don’t bother 
going to various events that are 
already being offered. Without active student participation, it’s no wonder 
that establishing consistent, high-
caliber UCSD traditions seems nigh 
impossible.
To make the most of our college 
career, we can’t simply lament the 
lack of day-to-day school spirit. It’s 
going to take real effort to don blue 
face paint, to thrust ourselves into 
foreign open forums, fundraisers 
and semifinal games — to make 
connections that transcend our 
colleges or majors. Remember 
that it takes genuine student 
involvement to make UCSD a truly 
unique, social locale. Channeling 
the energy we had on Spirit Night 
into campus activism and other 
areas is definitely an attainable 
possibility. 
Students Can’t Lament Lack of  Spirit Unless They Make Effort
▶ SPIRIT  from page 4GOT ISSUES?
BE HEARD
BY YOUR PEERS!SEND YOUR 
LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGCONFUSED MUSE  By Elyse YangWEEKENDARTS   |   FOOD & DRINK   |   LIVING   |   FILM  &  TV   |   MUSIC   |   THINGS  TO  DO
A&E EDITOR // JACQUELINE KIM 
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // NILU KARIMI
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Grammy
Left to their own devices, the members of Bastille weren’t about to let their days slip away 
with nothing to show. They were busy crafting chart-topping singles, a certified Gold 
record and a slew of tantalizing experimental remixes. With thundering drums and rhyth -
mic chants, their hit single “Pompeii” dominated radio stations. But Bastille isn’t a one-hit 
wonder; its debut album, “Bad Blood, ” is a collection of well-crafted stories both catchy and 
polished enough to be released as singles without disrupting the album’s coherence.
Y et what sets Bastille apart is an underlying creative genius that demands experimentation. 
Bastille tinkers, and from that playful trial-and-error comes intriguing variation. Its covers 
are clever marriages of unlikely pairings (Miley Cyrus and “The Lion King, ” anyone?) and its 
songs borrow from historical and mythological scenes when not toying with genres. Be -
cause Bastille thrives on this radical creativity, it’ll only continue to develop its fascinatingly 
flexible sound.Best New Artist -  BASTILLE
- Karly Nisson
Editorial Assistant 
PREDICTIONS
Design By
 Joselynn Ordaz
Sherman Aline
Meghan Trainor’s sassiness level is about as unprecedented as a number-one hit about fat — or at least not-skinny — accep -
tance. And while the subject matter of “ All About That Bass” has helped fueled debates about body image, what really makes it 
stand out is the sound. If you break down the sexy, bouncing single into its influences, you’ll find pop 
(obviously), rap, cabaret and a hint of doo wop supported by a strutting acoustic bass line. It’s defi -
nitely safe to say that “ All About That Bass” has a lot going for it when it comes to standing head-
and-shoulders above a pack of copy-paste pop singles this last year, mostly sung by “stick-figure 
silicone Barbie dolls. ”Best Record -  “ALL ABOUT THAT BASS” by MEGHAN TRAINOR
- Kyle Somers
Associate A&E Editor
ILLUSTRATION BY ELYSE YANG
ILLUSTRATION BY ALICE HSIEHWEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 5, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
Feminism. Not exactly a word that you would typically use to describe the best album of the 
year, but in this case, it’s the perfect word to sum up Beyonce’s self-titled album. Y ear after 
year, Queen Bey dominates the top of the charts with empowering, catchy songs, and year 
after year, she is awarded at various award shows for her achievements, making her the most 
nominated woman in music history. 
Beyonce’s Grammy nomination for Best Album of 2014 epitomizes what she has been 
working toward throughout her career: a successful and probable win. This influential 
album varies from self-empowerment to romance, important features that appeal to many 
young women and make for successful pop/rhythm and blues through the genre’s signature 
rhythmic buoyancy. “Beyonce” contains hit songs like 
“Drunk in Love, ” which was also nominated for best 
R&B performance and clearly represents the sensual 
artistry present throughout the entire album. The 
feminist motifs and success from the songs through -
out this album sum up exactly what a “Best Album” 
should embody — power. Best Album -  “BEYONCÉ ” by BEYONC É
- Alex Diaz
Staff Writer
When your midterms come back, when you trip in front of your crush, when you get criticism from 
major news outlets about every boy you date, take some of Taylor Swift’s stellar advice. “Shake it 
Off ” is the “Hakuna Matata” of pop and a perfect anthem for bad days, good days and everything 
in between. She begins with “Got nothing in my brain, ” but that is obviously not true after listen -
ing. Moving fully into the pop genre, she bravely confronts her own stereotypes and embraces her 
own adorable dorkiness while encouraging listeners to do the same. She sings the iconic line “Haters 
gonna hate, ” but what makes this song so poignant is that it’s all true. Listen to this song’s easygoing 
and light-hearted lyrics and you’ll believe it’s all “gonna be all right” if you just de-stress and “keep 
moving. ” If you disagree, well, you know what to do. Best Song -  “SHAKE IT OFF” by TAYLOR SWIFT
- Allison Kubo
Staff Writer
ILLUSTRATION BY IRENE LUUILLUSTRATION BY ROCIO PLASCENCIA8     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 5, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
ASCE.UCSD.E DUFor mor e informa tion, c ontact A SCE a t
avpconcerts@ucsd. edu or (858) 5 34-04 77 FEB. 12 x 8:00PM x THE LOFT
FREE f or UCSD UNDERGRAD SDANCE
theloft.ucsd.edu( )
At the time, it most likely seemed 
ridiculous. But when the small, 
porous and all-too-jovial block 
of yellow known as Spongebob 
Squarepants appeared on television 
in 1999, a multi-billion dollar fran -
chise was truly born. The antics of 
the talking sponge and his bottom-
dwelling, sea critter friends created a 
rare form of child-friendly entertain -
ment that both adults and kids could 
enjoy. However, for those who either 
grew up watching Nickelodeon’s 
most successful show of all time 
or reveling in its silly humor as an 
adult, take note: Spongebob’s glory days are much farther away than the 
bottom of the sea.
In “The Spongebob Movie: 
Sponge Out of Water, ” an evil pirate 
named Burger-Beard (Antonio 
Banderas) steals an ancient book that 
grants him the power to turn what -
ever he writes within its pages into 
reality. With his newfound ability, 
he steals the Krabby Patty secret for -
mula, effectively turning Spongebob’s 
fellow burger-deprived citizens 
into a deranged wreck as their city 
falls into a “Mad Max”-looking, 
post-apocalyptic chaos. Eventually, 
Spongebob and the gang must embark onto land and fight their 
nemesis as buffed-up superheroes. 
Sound ridiculous? Perhaps, 
but the believability of plots and 
premises was never an issue for 
“Spongebob. ” What always made 
the show and its first film in 2004 
work was a delightfully simple yet 
universally enjoyable sense of fun 
within wild backdrops. However, 
“Sponge Out of Water” forgoes its 
old ability to entertain an older 
demographic, as its humor and 
superhero moments largely attempt 
to pander to children’s tastes. What’s 
worse is that the kid-theme falls flat 
as well, as director Paul Tibbitt and 
his team include such distractingly 
bizarre and hallucinatory secondary 
scenes (more than the show already 
regularly does) that one is often left 
wondering if the film is meant to 
be a children’s movie or an anima -
tor’s tongue-in-cheek, acid-induced 
creation. In the show’s golden age, 
absurdity complimented the charm of the cartoon’s silly jokes and buf -
foonery. Here, however, absurdity 
exists only for absurdity’s sake and 
with no real comedic payoffs. 
The film also appears to ignore 
the value of its main cast: other 
than the sponge himself, the vil -
lainous Plankton receives the most 
screen time. The chemistry between 
Spongebob and his lovably dim-
witted best friend Patrick or the 
curmudgeonly Squidward is largely 
abandoned, leaving reliably funny 
set-ups falling by the wayside. 
As for the visuals, the live-
action 3D animation hybrid por -
tion (directed by Mike Mitchell), 
though executed well enough from 
a technical perspective, plays out 
as nothing more than a gimmick. 
In truth, though marketing pushed 
the style as the film’s selling point, 
the actual usage of the real-world 
cartoon blend was whittled down to 
only a final act event. While “The 
Lego Movie” utilized the unconven -tional animation of its commercial 
product to its comedic advantage, 
the format of “Sponge” provides an 
advertising tagline but little addi -
tional entertainment value. 
For the most part, the film does 
boast the typical polish of the bright -
ly colored and vivid animation from 
the show, and while there are traces 
of the smartly inane jokes that made 
it the behemoth commercial entity 
it is today, the old charm appears 
to have faded. What remains is an 
odd collage of childishly flat humor 
and dizzying sequences of weird -
ness plastered over a 3D tag. Perhaps 
“Sponge out of Water” was meant as 
a sort of saving grace to the declin -
ing quality of its ongoing show, but if 
anything, the new film is only a fur -
ther confirmation of its dying days. 
—   Brandon  yu
sports editorFILM   REVIEW
Directed by  Paul Tibbitt
Starring   Tom Kenny, Bill Fagerbakke, Rodger Bumpass, Clancy Brown
Rated PG
Release Date Feb. 6The new feature of the iconic cartoon retains bits of 
the show’s old appeal but is too wild for its own good. The Spongebob Movie: Sponge Out of W a terPHOTO COURTESTY OF THE HOLLYWOOD REPORTERWEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 5, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
The Spongebob Movie: Sponge Out of W a ter
Ostensibly a cheese store, the 
Cheese Shop’s wares are 
really far breader. Despite 
its name, the Cheese Shop deals 
primarily in sandwiches, though 
it also offers a healthy selection of 
salads and an unhealthy assortment 
of sweets.
Once a purveyor of gourmet 
imports, the Cheese Shop is in the 
final stage of its transformation into 
a deli. Instead of wine and cheese, 
the Cheese Shop primarily offers hot 
and cold sandwiches, crafted with a 
broad array of toppings. A meatless 
cheese sandwich costs $6.50, while 
a replete sub runs at about $10. Of 
course, the sandwiches are custom -
izable, so it’s entirely up to you to 
optimize your sub. Noteworthy items 
include the “Turkey Jack Avocado” 
and the hot, mysterious “New Y ork 
Special, ” which combines pastrami, 
corned beef and pumpernickel. 
Salads are also on the menu: potato, 
macaroni, coleslaw, chicken, tuna and egg. Cookies come in chocolate 
chip and flourless oatmeal — there’s 
something for everyone.
A sandwich is easy to find, but a 
great sandwich is rare. Unfortunately, 
the Turkey Jack Avocado fell short 
of glory. Everything tasted fresh, 
but the result was a tad bland. Even 
without mayonnaise and mustard, 
the sandwich was moist and the veg -
etables imparted a satisfying crunch 
but did not contribute enough to 
the greater flavor.  The Roast Leg of 
Lamb-wich was even less impressive 
and caught me off guard with an 
uncomplimentary mix of cucumber 
and feta. While toppings are gener -
ous and portions are substantial — 
the meal-sized sandwich justified the 
price — both cold sandwiches tasted 
like something one could prepare at 
home, given the ingredients. Luckily, 
the wide bread selection comes from 
the local Bread & Cie bakery.  A high 
point of the arrangement: the tangy 
sourdough provided robust support through consumption.
 In a rush? Service is quick; the 
orders were filled, wrapped and 
bagged in just a few minutes.
Proximity to the beach is a bless -
ing and a curse — the surf ’s within 
walking distance, but parking can     
be difficult. 
While the Cheese Shop still sells 
its namesake, most of the store is 
dedicated to sandwich construction. 
Strangely, the Cheese Shop offers 
a wide variety of candy, including 
some obscure brands — in fact, 
this alone may be worth the trip for              
candy connoisseurs.
Quick service and fantastic loca -
tion go a long way to elevate the 
food. If you’re spending the day 
at the beach, the Cheese Shop is a 
solid choice for a brisk bite.
—    adam  fisher
HOURS:
Sun. to Thurs.: 8 a.m. to 4 p.m.
Fri. to Sat.: 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.LOCATION:
2165 Avenida de la Playa
La Jolla, CA 92037 $$
REST AURANT   REVIEWPHOTO BY ADAM FISHER/ UCSDGUARDIAN
The Guardian
is Hiring! 
ucsdguardian.org/jobs10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 5, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
CLASSIFIEDS$
Guar dian Classi/f_ieds ar e FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifieds
BIKES
2011 Santa Cruz Nomad Carbon Fiber Full 
Suspension Mountain Bike - $2200. I’m 
selling my amazing mountain bike. It has 
Fox Talas 36 and Fox DHX 5.0 suspension 
system. Shimano Deore XT 30 speed. This 
is the custom factory model which has all top of the line everything. Size medium frame. Always well taken care of and main
-
tained from the dealer. Very low mileage and  in exceptional condition. Listing ID: 118984104 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Mongoose Rockadile Mountain Bike - $100. 
Mongoose Rockadile 16.5in chromoly 
frame: Shimano Exage crankset, Deore 
derailleurs, rapid fire shift and brake levers, Araya rims with Shimano quick release 
hubs. Teal color. All tuned up and ready to 
ride. Listing ID: 118984103 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
Specialized HR-Comp Mountain Bike - $250. 
Specialized HR-Comp (Hardrock), hardtail frame mountain bike, Judy TT Rock Shox front suspension, Alivio Shimano compo
-
nents. Smaller frame 13” with Rockster tires. This bike is in “Like New Condition” and has been well maintained and kept in my garage. Tuned up and ready to ride! Listing 
ID: 117921180 at ucsdguardian.org/clas
-
sifieds for more informationELECTRONICS
500 GB External Mirrored Backup Drive for 
Computer, Music, Photos, etc. - $150. 2011-2012 NewerTech Guardian MAXimus 500GB Multi-Interface Hardware RAID-1 (Mirrored) Data Redundant Solution Drive. In box with cables. In great condition. Listing ID: 115092942 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Antique Kodak Wood Screen - $25. Rare 
1930s Antique Kodascope Kodacolor Wood Screen for projecting slides or movies. One side is a movie screen, the other side beau
-
tiful wood. The two feet turn to support the screen and collapse for easy storage or transportation. Listing ID: 118984133 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Canon Rebel T3i with 18-135 IS Lens Kit 
- $500. Canon Rebel T3i with 18-135mm lens. The camera comes with all the original items, even the box. Includes two extra bat
-
teries and UV filter. Also includes remote shutter release with cable. The camera is in excellent working condition. Listing ID: 118984131 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
FURNITURE
Southern Motion Reclining Sofa - $250. The Southern Motion black bonded leather sofa has a transitional style with a beautiful tuft -
ed seat back. It offers clean lines as well as an additional pillow top in the seat cushion for extra comfort. This model comes with a taller seat back at 40in which will provide full head support for most individuals. A full chaise footrest is also featured. I have two to sell. Listing ID: 118443654 at ucsdguard
-
ian.org/classifieds for more information
Ikea Computer Desk - $35. Original price 
$60. Width: 31 ½” . Depth: 21 ⅝” . Height: 29 ⅝” . Listing ID: 118443653 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Ikea Twin Bed Frame and Memory Foam 
Mattress - $175. I have an Ikea twin bed already assembled in a perfectly attrac
-
tive condition. I have a twin memory foam mattress which is well maintained, clean and hardly used. Listing ID: 118443652 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
t
your visio n,
our missio n.
outfitters@ucsd.eduCreate custom a pparel to 
promote your student 
organiza tion with Triton 
Outfitter's new Made TO Order program!
.com/ucsdguardian
.com/ucsdguardian
Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies 
on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.ukLevel: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
Level:
12
34Level:
12
34Level: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
SUDOKU
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 5, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
The UCSD men’s volleyball 
team was unsuccessful in its back-
to-back Mountain Pacific Sports 
Federation games against Brigham 
Y oung University on Friday 
and Saturday night at the Smith 
Fieldhouse. The Tritons fell in 
three sets on both occasions, losing 
Friday’s game 25–18, 25–17, 25-18 
and Saturday’s game 25–18, 25–20, 
25–21.
On Friday evening, it was UCSD 
that started the stronger of the two 
sides in the first set as the Tritons 
quickly took a 6–3 lead, thanks to 
a streak which featured three kills 
from freshman outside hitter Luke 
La Mont. However, the Tritons 
soon lost their advantage as the 
Cougars took six points in a row 
to lead 9–6 and continued to build 
upon their advantage to take the set 
25–18.
In the second set, the Cougars 
were prompt in building a 5–2 
advantage with two kills from their 
freshman outside hitter Brenden 
Sander. The Tritons managed to 
bring themselves back within a 
point at 5–4 with kills from La 
Mont and sophomore middle 
blocker Shayne Beamer. 
A flurry of points for the 
Cougars, however, left UCSD with 
a significant deficit once again at 
12–8. The closest the Tritons came 
again was within two points, with 
a La Mont service ace and a kill 
from freshman opposite Tanner 
Syftestad, making the scores 13–11. 
After that, BYU continued to widen 
the gap and eventually took the set 
25–17.
The final set saw UCSD take 
its only block of the game from La Mont to take a 2–0 lead early on. 
The teams seemed to be evenly 
matched with several exchanges 
of points and a service ace from 
Syftestad bringing them to 6–6. 
However, the Cougars began to pull 
away for the third time to a 16–12 
lead. The Tritons showed resilience 
to pull the score back to 16–15 with 
a Syftestad ace and La Mont kill, 
but their efforts were to no avail, as 
BYU took nine of the last 12 points 
to take the set 25–18 and a match 
victory.
Despite the loss, positives for 
the UCSD came in the form of a 
season-high hitting percentage of 
0.240 as well as a career-high of 12 
kills for La Mont and 24 assists for 
freshman set ter Milosh Stojcic.
Saturday’s rematch started 
poorly for the Trit ons as they fell 
behind 5–1 at the start of the first 
set. UCSD struggled to find a 
foothold but seemed on the verge 
of a comeback when a brace of four 
points featuring a Syftestad kill and 
block brought it back to within two 
points at 15–13. The persistence of 
the Cougars ultimately prevailed, 
though, and the home squad took 
the first set 25–18.
The second set proved to be 
a tight affair at the beginning of 
the set with the teams staying 
tied twice before BYU managed 
to push away to an 11–6 lead. It 
seemed that the Cougars would 
take an easy set when they got to 
set point at 24–16. Y et the Tritons 
spoiled four set points in a row 
and produced back-to-back blocks, 
bringing the score to 24–20 before 
the Cougars could take the set.
The last set saw UCSD take the 
upper hand for the majority of the 
play time. The Tritons marched 
into a lead, building a four-point advantage at 16–12 after a service 
ace and kill from junior outside 
hitter Kirill Rudenko. But at 19–15, 
a six-point flurry for BYU gave the 
Cougars a sudden 21–19 lead and 
enabled them to win the match 
25–21.
Once again, La Mont’s 
performance proved to be a 
positive for the Tritons as he, for 
the second game in a row, led the 
match in kills. 
Despite the disappointment, 
UCSD head coach Kevin Ring took 
the ability of his team’s service as a 
bright spot.
“Maybe the best thing we did here all weekend was we served 
really well, ” Ring said. “This is a 
tough place to serve. Y ou’re serving 
at altitude. We were able to keep 
our service errors to a minimum 
while still serving tough. We’re 
going to need that the remainder of 
the season. ”
UCSD now begins a four-
match run of home games starting 
against non-conference Concordia 
University Irvine this Friday, Feb. 6 
at RIMAC Arena at 7 p.m.
first to start an offensive onslaught 
that tallied 12 runs in the first three 
innings. Senior right-hander Dan 
Kolodin earned his first win of the 
season after pitching five frames 
with three hits, two walks and six 
strikeouts. Kolodin sat the Wolves 
down in order across the opening 
three. 
With such a large lead, the 
Tritons sent freshman right-hander 
Jack Rupe Jr. to relieve Kolodin for 
the sixth and seventh. Rupe fared 
well in his first college contest, 
earning his six outs on ground balls, 
including a double play. Sommer 
managed a strikeout during his 
rotation and closed out the game. 
The Tritons fourth and final win 
of the season came on Tuesday night 
with a 5–1 victory against Western 
Oregon University. Junior All-
American right-hander Troy Cruz 
started on the mound and threw 
six innings allowing one run on six 
singles with three strikeouts. 
On offense, Flatt and Shirley both 
batted in two runs off four and five 
appearances, respectively. Shirley’s 
two RBIs came from a two-run 
homer in the eighth. 
UCSD continues its opening 
11-game homestand against No. 5 
Colorado Mesa University on Friday, 
Feb. 6 at 6 p.m. Colorado Mesa, last 
year’s national runner-up, will pose a 
significant challenge to the Tritons in 
spite of their hot start to the year.
“They are the runners-up, and 
they’re fifth in the nation, ” Shirley 
said. “We’ll see. It’ll be a tough series. 
It won’t be a blowout. It’ll be close 
games, and that’s what we need. 
We’ll probably face them later on if 
we make it to [nationals] in Cary. ” Baseball Will Next 
Host T ough Foe No. 
5 Colorado Mesa
▶ BASEBALL ,  from page 12
readers can contact
john stor y    jstory@ucsd.edu Triton Drought Continues in Doubleheader LossesMEN'S VOLLEYBALL
Volleyball fails to win a single set in Friday and Saturday match defeats against No. 7 Brigham Y oung University. 
readers can contact
liam  leahy    lleahy@ucsd.edu B Y  LIAM LEAHY
STAFF WRITER
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE// UCSD GUARDIANSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
BRANDON  YU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 5, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
Baseball
M. Basketball
W. Basketball
Softball
W. Water Polo     2/06
     2/06
     2/06
     2/07     
     2/07VS Colorado Mesa
AT Chico State
AT Chico State
VS St. Martin’s
VS Triton InvitationalUPCOMING
UCSD
GAMES
TRITONS  DOMINA TE  OPENERBASEBALL
No. 15 UCSD debuts new Triton ballpark in perfect start against Western Oregon. 
BY JOHN STORY ASSOCIATE SPORTS EDITOR // PHOTO BY SIDDHARTH ATRE
After a long offseason, the No. 15 nationally ranked UCSD baseball 
team opened its 2015 season with a four-game sweep of Western 
Oregon University in the new Triton Ballpark last Sunday through 
Tuesday. The 4–0 start is the best starting record for the Tritons since 
moving up to Division-II in 2001 and earned the 100th win for head coach 
Eric Newman. 
Senior southpaw Trevor Scott and sophomore outfielder Jack Larsen 
were awarded the season’s first weekly California Collegiate Athletic 
Association Honors for their work in the series as well. It is the first time 
both players have been recognized with the award. 
Scott started on the mound for the first game of Sunday’s doubleheader 
and threw six frames straight with four hits, no walks and no runs allowed 
in what would be a 4–0 UCSD shutout victory. Larsen broke out on offense 
in the same game, getting three hits out of four appearances at the plate to 
include two doubles, two RBIs and a home run. 
“It’s a huge honor to be able to open as a senior in this ballpark, ” Scott 
told the UCSD Athletics Department. “This team is ready to rock ’n’ roll, 
our lineup is very solid, our bullpen looks as solid as it ever has. ”
Redshirt freshman right-handed pitcher John Erhardt and senior left-
hander Chad Rieser joined Scott on the mound for the 4–0 opener against 
the Wolves, marking the first time the new field saw action. Single runs 
from redshirt freshman left fielder Justin Flatt, sophomore center-fielder Brandon Shirley and sophomore shortstop Tyler Howsley combined with 
Larsen’s homer to produce the Tritons’ four runs. Scores came in pairs with 
two coming in the fifth and another two scored the seventh frame. 
Howsley was the first Triton to cross the plate in the 2015 campaign and 
in the new ballpark as he tallied a run off Shirley’s double in the fifth. 
UCSD powered past the Wolves 8–3 in the second game with five of 
those runs tallied in the second inning alone. Junior right-hander Alon 
Leichman faced 21 batters across four frames with six hits, three runs and 
three strikeouts before being replaced by senior right-hander Javier Carrillo 
Jr. for the final two innings. Carillo faced nine batters and finished the 
game with two hits and no runs. 
Monday’s 12–5 win in the third game of the Western Oregon series 
marked Newman’s 100th victory since he took the reigns of the program 
four years ago. 
“Right now, we’re playing well, ” Newman told the UCSD Athletics 
Department. “The guys have really bought in to what we’re trying to do. 
The lineup is working together, they’re seeing pitches, they’re working for 
each other, they’re passing the at-bats along and that just allows us to get 
into that rhythm and flow offensively. ”
Senior first-baseman Michael Mann hit a bases-loaded triple in the 
See BASEBALL , page 11
The UCSD men’s and women’s 
fencing teams faced off against 
some of the very best Division-I 
squads from across the country this 
past Saturday and Sunday at the 
Northwestern Duals in Evanston, 
Illinois. 
“We liked that we all got experi -
ence and that they were up to the 
challenge and were able to be ex -
posed to that level of D-I schools, ” 
UCSD assistant coach Josh Runyan 
said. “The whole team grew from 
facing such quality opponents. ”
The Tritons women’s squad faced 
off against top-ranked schools such 
as No. 1 Notre Dame University, 
No. 3 Princeton, No. 5 Ohio State, 
No. 6 University of Pennsylvania, 
No. 9 Northwestern University and 
No. 10 Temple University. 
The Tritons women competed 
in 14 matches overall and went 6–8 
throughout the weekend. UCSD 
finished with strong victories 
against Wayne State (23–4), Stan -
ford (15–12), Fairleigh Dickinson 
University (15–12), Lawrence University (19–8), Cleveland State 
(22–5) and Detroit Mercy Univer -
sity (22–5). 
Their eight defeats came from 
the hands of the following teams: 
Air Force (15–12), University of 
North Carolina (17–10), Pennsyl -
vania (23–4), Ohio State (19–8), 
Notre Dame (21–6), Northwestern 
(21–6), Princeton University(21–6) 
and Temple (15–12). 
The women’s sabre came out 
positive with a 67–59 mark, and the 
eppe followed suit as they posted 
up a positive 66–60 mark. However, 
the foil fell to a negative overall 
with a 51–75 mark.
The men’s squad also faced 
off against formidable opponents 
with competition including No. 2 
Notre Dame, No. 3 Ohio State, No. 
7 Princeton and No. 8 Penn. The 
Tritons men’s squad competed in 12 
matches in total and went an even 
6–6 over the weekend. 
The Tritons won against the 
competing squads from the fol -
lowing schools: Air Force (16–11), 
Wayne State University (18–9), 
Cleveland State University (22–5), 
Detroit Mercy (23–4), Lawrence (20–7) and Northwestern (21–6). 
The other six teams they lost to 
were Ohio State (18–9), Notre 
Dame (19–8), Penn (18–9), Princ -
eton (16–11), Stanford (19–8) and 
North Carolina (17–10).
The men’s foil pulled victori -
ous with a 65–43 record, the epee 
also followed through with a 
powerful record of 65–44, but the 
sabre fell with a negative record of 
46–62. Freshman foilist David Hadler 
had arguably the best weekend of 
all Tritons as he consistently per -
formed well against higher-ranked 
teams, posting a 22–5 record in his 
bouts. 
“He is one of these guys who 
gained experience and he was able 
to come out and perform against 
these top teams, ” Runyan told the 
UCSD Guardian. 
Next, the UCSD fencing squads will host the Intercollegiate Fencing 
Conference of Southern California 
Duals this Saturday, Feb. 7 begin -
ning at 2:45 p.m.
“We are looking forward to 
facing Arizona, ” Runyan said. “ Ari -
zona has a very good team and will 
be our toughest challenge but we 
will be ready for it. ” FENCING
Fencing Competes at Illinois
UCSD competed against the country’s top Division-I 
schools over the weekend at the Northwestern Duals.
B Y  gurkira t singh
staff writer
PHOTO BY ERIKA JOHNSON / GUARDIAN FILE
readers can contact
gurkira t  singh    gsingh@ucsd.edu 