VOLUME 49, ISSUE 20   THURSDA Y , DECEMBER 3, 2015  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
WINTER MOVIE 
PREVIEW
ACCEPT THE DARKENED AND 
LONG HOPELESS NIGHTS OF 
THE WINTER BY WARMING 
UP IN YOUR LOCAL THEATRE 
WITH THE GUARDIAN’S A&E 
STAFF’S MOST ANTICIPATED 
FILMS OF WINTER 2015.
ISLAMOPHOBIA  IN  THE  U.S.
ROAD  TO  NCAASREFUGEE  CRISIS  TO   HA TE  CRIMES
M. W A TER  POLO   f aces  princeton OPINION,  P age   4
SPORTS,  P age  12
THURSDAY 
H 72 L 52FRIDAY
H 67 L 49
SATURDAY
H 76 L 51SUNDAY
H 73 L 51
FORECAST
VERBATIM
IT’S TOO 
BAD THAT 
MEN 
CAN’T BE 
LIKE MALE 
SEAHORSES, THE ONLY FAMILY 
IN THE ANIMAL KINGDOM THAT 
CAN NATURALLY UNDERGO 
MALE PREGNANCY. 
- VINCENT PHAM
BOY, INTERRUPTED
OPINION , PAGE 4
INSIDE
MOSQUITOES  .................. 2
THE PARKING PROBLEM  .4
SANTA DOESN’T EXIST?  ..9
CLASSIFIEDS  ................ 10
W. VOLLEYBALL  ............ 12“WEEKEND,  P AGE  6
ART BY NAME ELYSE YANG / GUARDIAN
Sixteen UCSD researchers, 
students and staff from the UC 
Revelle program are currently 
attending the 21st annual 
Conference of Parties in Paris 
that will last from Nov. 30 until 
Dec. 11. They are joined by UC 
President Janet Napolitano, UC 
Chief Investment Officer Jagdeep 
Singh Bachher, Gov. Jerry Brown 
and others in hopes of achieving a 
universal agreement to keep global 
warming below two degrees Celsius.
Over 190 countries and close 
to 50,000 participants are expected 
to attend the 2015 Paris Climate 
Conference. Director of Scripps 
Institution of Oceanography and head of the UC Revelle delegation 
Margaret Leinen said that the role of 
UC researchers is to enhance policy 
using relevant research.
“Our role in these climate 
conferences is to bring science 
into the conversation as much as 
possible so that the strategies that 
may become national policies have 
the best chance to be effective in 
mitigating the changes in nature that 
human activities have precipitated, ” 
Leinen said in a Nov. 29 press release.
Kate Moser, media specialist 
for the UC Office of the President, 
told the UCSD Guardian that, 
considering the resources it has 
at its disposal, it is imperative for 
the university to get involved with 
climate change.
“The fact that we have 10 
campuses, three energy labs and some of the best climate scientists is 
why we’re involved with and joining 
the energy breakthrough coalition 
to help solve this crisis, ” Moser said. 
“Essentially, what it boils down to 
is that there’s a moral obligation to 
take urgent action to try and reverse 
the effects of climate change. ”
The University of California also 
announced on Nov. 29 at COP21 
that it has joined the Breakthrough 
Energy Coalition — a group 
of investors led by Bill Gates in 
order to help solve the crises the 
planet is facing. Gates said that the 
technology the UC system develops 
will play a crucial part in a cleaner, 
more efficient future.
“The UC system — with its 
world-leading campuses and University Hosts Annual 
World AIDS Day Events
UCSD hosted events across campus to commemorate 
the annual World AIDS Day on Dec. 1. The theme 
for this year was “Get to Zero, ” which centered on 
eliminating stigma, preventing new infections and 
minimizing AIDS-related deaths.
Founded in 1988, World AIDS Day is an event 
where attendees can learn more about HIV and AIDS 
from health professionals, listen to the stories and 
experiences of those who have these illnesses and receive 
free and anonymous HIV testing. Many of UCSD’s 
cultural centers commemorated the day’s activities by 
offering information sessions on how HIV and AIDS 
has affected their own communities. 
The LGBT Resource Center’s community 
engagement intern Mercedes Orozco explained to the 
UCSD Guardian how the motto is reflective of the 
event’s goals, particularly in reducing the stigma that 
surrounds those affected by HIV and AIDS.
“There is a big stigma behind HIV and AIDS, and 
about who gets it and how it’s transmitted, ” Orozco said. 
“The motto this year is getting to zero — that is, zero 
discrimination by getting rid of the stigma behind HIV 
and AIDS. ”
Campus Diversity Officer and Director of the LGBT Resource Center Shaun Travers explained how 
organizations like Student Health Advocates, one of the 
most involved organizations behind the World AIDS 
day event, will use education as their means to “get to 
zero. ”  
“Our work with those who are HIV positive is to 
reduce the stigma and discrimination against them 
related to the disease, ” Travers said. “Getting to zero 
looks like this: zero stigma, zero new infections and 
zero AIDS-related deaths. What we’re going to do in 
the future is continue to educate and continue to come 
together as a community to fight HIV and AIDS. ”
Travers also stated how education is key to the 
prevention of HIV and AIDS. Condoms and various 
forms of medication like PrEP and PEP can help prevent 
the acquisition of HIV and/or stop the spread of the 
virus respectively. 
Furthermore, Travers offered advice on how people 
can support others who are diagnosed with HIV and 
AIDS by encouraging them to get diagnosed early.  
“To support those who are diagnosed, we first need 
to increase testing because early diagnosis is incredibly 
important and getting the care a person needs right 
away can make all the difference, ” Travers said. “We do   B Y  Andrew  chao    Staff WriterHomeless 
Population 
Ranks Fourth 
in AmericaSAN DIEGO AROUND CAMPUS
CAMPUSAccording to a federal report 
released last month, nearly 
half of San Diego’s homeless 
citizens sleep on the streets.
BY   L I SA  C H I K
Staff Writer
See HOMELESS , page 3 See PARIS , page 3The United States Department of 
Housing and Urban Development 
released a report ranking San Diego 
among the nation’s top four cities 
with the largest homeless population 
this past November.
According to the yearly reports, 
10,013 homeless people resided in 
San Diego in 2010, 8,506 last year 
and 8,742 are currently homeless. 
The HUD’s Annual Homeless 
Assessment Report is based on a 
one-night process when volunteers 
across the nation conduct a count of 
local homeless populations living on 
the streets and homeless populations 
living in shelters in late January.
Though the homeless population 
increased from last year, San Diego 
County has seen a net decrease in 
homelessness of 3.1 percent since 
2011. The U.S. also experienced an 
11-percent decline since 2010, when 
President Obama launched Opening 
Doors, the nation’s first-ever 
comprehensive strategy to prevent 
and end homelessness. Between 
2010 and January 2015, veteran 
homelessness declined 36 percent, 
family homelessness declined 19 
percent and chronic homelessness 
declined 22 percent.
Monica Ball a community 
volunteer for the 25 Cities Project, a 
national effort to end homelessness, 
blames the lack of affordable housing 
for the large homeless population.
“The increase in numbers, 
particularly in downtown, is 
a residual effect of our failure to 
meet the inventory demands for 
housing those who cannot care 
for themselves, ” she told The San 
Diego Union-Tribune. “San Diego 
has basically 0-percent renting; a 
landlord can list a place on Craig’s 
List in the morning and have it filled 
by the afternoon. ”
To remedy this issue through 
creation of additional and affordable 
housing, the San Diego Housing 
Commission implemented a three-
year homelessness action plan in 
2014, impacting as many as 1,500 
homeless San Diegans. Katie Keach, 
Deputy Chief of Staff of the Office 
of San Diego City Councilmember 
Todd Gloria, said that the Regional 
Continuum of Care Council 
is moving forward with housing 
programs seeing as other cities and 
states have been able to declare an 
end to homelessness by providing 
stable housing.
“Implementing Housing First is 
the most significant action we are 
taking to address homelessness,” 
Keach told the UCSD Guardian. 
“Housing First is the concept that UCSD Scholars Attend Paris Climate Summit
Approximately 50,000 people from nearly 200 countries will participate in the conference.See AIDS , page 3
INTERNATIONAL
BY  M I N G - R A Y  L I A O
Staff Writer
Latino fraternity Gamma Zeta Alpha hosted a holiday toy drive for Southwest Keys Shelter on Wednesday at Library Walk. 
Photo by Hazel Leung /UCSD Guardian
2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , DECEMBER 3, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
AVERAGE CAT By Christina Carlson
CalCopyUCSD@gmail.comLowest
Prices POSTER PRINTINGPRINT/COPY FILES
''	%Fastest
Service
MORE INFO AT SOVAC.UCSD.EDU/REGISTERThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded 
by advertising. Kirkland beer? Shitty. Tastes like water. It’s 
sadnes in a cam - JoseO.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Marketing Director
Laura Chow
Associate Marketing Director
Peter McInnis
Training and Development Manager
Cedric Hyon
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Vincent Pham
Rosina Garcia
Tina Butoiu
Kriti Sarin
Jacky To
Cassia Pollock 
Marcus Thuillier
Allison Kubo
Kyle Somers
Karly Nisson
Brittney Lu
Olga Golubkova
Jonathan Gao
Megan Lee
Joselynn Ordaz
Sherman Aline
Elyse Yang
Christina Carlson
Jennifer GrundmanEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
 
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
Associate Features Editor
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Sherman Aline, Allison Kubo
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim
Editorial Assistants
Naftali Burakovsky, Christian Duarte, Katie Potts, 
Sage Schubert Sam Velasquez, Julie Yip
@asucsdRegistration for FALL QUARTER
A.S. Safe Rides allows registered
undergraduate students to get
3 FREE rides per quarter.
Students MUST register
at least 24 hours prior
to their ﬁrst ride. A.S. SAFE RIDES 
REGISTER ONLINE AT
AS.UCSD.EDU/SAFERIDESNOW OPEN!Researchers at UCSD, in 
collaboration with those at UC 
Irvine, have genetically engineered 
mosquitoes with parasite-resistant 
genes that can inhibit the transmission 
of malaria to humans at a 99.5 percent 
success rate. Their findings were 
published in the Proceedings of the 
National Academy of Sciences of the 
United States of America on Nov. 23.
The World Health Organization 
estimated that malaria affected 
approximately 207 million people and 
killed roughly 627,000 victims in 2012. 
Malaria transmission occurs when 
mosquitoes bite an infected person and 
ingest the parasite, which moves from 
the intestine into the salivary glands; 
the mosquitoes pass on this parasite as 
they bite their next victims. To combat 
this disease, UCSD postdoctoral fellow 
Valentino Gantz and Professor of 
Biological Sciences Ethan Bier inserted 
gene cassettes into the malaria vectors, 
such that the parasite remained in the 
intestines. UC Irvine professor and 
study co-author Anthony A. James 
developed these gene cassettes with 
the ability to inhibit malaria parasites. 
“This gene expresses an antibody 
that belongs to the plasmodium, 
the parasite, [into the gut of the mosquito], ” Gantz explained to the 
UCSD Guardian. “So the parasite 
gets ingested, but once it gets to the 
intestine, it gets stuck there. It can’t 
go anywhere; it can’t go back to the 
salivary glands. Therefore, even if the 
mosquito has the parasite, it can’t get 
into the next person. ”
In particular, Gantz and Bier 
applied Clustered Regularly 
Interspaced Short Palindromic 
Repeats-Cas methods with a gene-
drive system they developed earlier 
this year called the mutagenic chain 
reaction. This technology enables 
transformations of heterozygous 
reactions into homozygous ones. 
“This technology, for the first 
time, allows it to spread a genetic 
characteristic into a population of 
individuals, ” Gantz said. “[Scientists] 
have tried with some trials without 
a gene drive, but they couldn’t get 
these cassettes to have an impact. The 
gene drives we’ve created together 
with Tony James [form] the last 
puzzle piece of this technology, and 
we should, in theory, be able to spread 
these characteristics engineered to 
mosquitoes not only to those in the 
lab, but the entire population. ”
These gene-drive methods 
distinguish this study from previous 
ones. Essentially, a change in one 
strand of DNA can be automatically transferred to the other. All organisms 
acquire one gene from their mothers 
and one from their fathers. In this case, 
if the father has the desired gene, the 
father’s gene can be transferred and 
made copies in both DNA strands; 
the gene-drive copies onto itself with a 
perfect success rate. Furthermore, this 
pattern will continue down the germ 
line, eliminating the need to target 
each malaria-infected mosquito.
“Usually with regular Mendelian 
inheritance, you get a 50 percent 
chance of inheritance, ” Gantz told 
the Guardian. “In this case, you 
have a 100 percent chance. Y ou are 
intrinsically advantaged over any 
other genetic element. ”
Founding Director of the UC 
San Diego Research Ethics Program 
Michael Kalichman presented 
the ethical considerations of gene 
editing for nonhuman organisms, 
including mosquitoes. 
According to Kalichman, 
genetically modifying animals that 
can cause infectious diseases can 
seem like a “wonderful thing, ” but 
studies such as this collaborative 
project carry risks, even if they run 
smoothly. Modifications could have 
negative ecological impacts or off-
target effects, for example, a decreased 
fit for survival. Kalichman’s suggested 
solutions include holding a group of wild mosquitoes that could be 
released again if the first generation 
exhibited problems or inserting genes 
that could erase or reverse initial 
genetic modifications. 
Regarding the researchers leading 
this anti-malaria study, Kalichman 
recognized their self-awareness and 
careful experimentation.
“The scientific community around 
this technology has really stepped up 
very quickly to put together groups 
and organizations and meetings to 
try and address not just the scientific 
issues, but the ethical challenges as 
well, ” Kalichman told the Guardian. “I 
think UCSD should be very proud to 
have people like Ethan and V alentino 
here, because they’re giving a lot of 
thought to these kinds of questions 
so that we [minimize] the risk that 
something will go wrong. ”
Beyond malaria, in the near 
future this research project on 
mosquitoes can be applied to other 
infectious diseases. 
“The case of the dengue virus, 
Chagas disease and Chikungunya [are 
all] absolute applications that we can 
translate what we have shown to other 
systems in probably not that much 
time, ” Gantz said. SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
Biologists Engineer Mosquitoes to Inhibit Spread of  Malaria
By engineering and inserting disease-blocking genes in mosquitoes, scientists successfully blocked parasite transmission.
BY   J U L I E  Y I P
EDITORIAL ASSISTANT 
JULIE YIP  JLYIP@ucsd.edu readers can contact
The UCSD Guardian staff wishes everyone a 
sucessfull finals week and a restful holiday.NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , DECEMBER 3, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
BLUEPRINT CAN HELP .I can’t wait to study 
for the LSAT.
Said no one 
ever.
Said no one 
888-4-BP-PREP
blueprintlsat.com
Use discount code “SNOW” 
to receive $200 off Blueprint’s 
classroom LSAT course or 
“FROSTY” to receive $100 off 
Blueprint’s online course!HIV Disproportionately Affects Young Adults
it right here at the Student Health 
Center. Many people are living long, 
healthy lives with HIV . ”
Additionally, Travers 
commented that HIV and AIDS 
research is continually improving 
and that researchers at UCSD are at 
the forefront of new developments. 
“It is an exciting time in terms 
of research related to HIV/AIDS, 
as today, scientists and physicians 
better understand the pathology 
of HIV/AIDS and there have 
been many new advances with 
antiretroviral drugs,” Travers 
explained. “UC San Diego has been 
at the center of much of this cutting-
edge research. ” 
Director of the UCSD AIDS 
Research Institute Douglas D. 
Richman received the 2015 A. Brad 
Truax Award on Dec. 1 for his HIV 
and retrovirus research, an award 
presented annually in conjunction 
with World AIDS Day. Richman 
and his laboratory are renowned for 
developing new ways to precisely 
measure barriers in curing HIV and 
the lab is regularly helping people 
around the world.
While progress has been 
improving with HIV and AIDS 
research, Travers stated it is 
important to have such an event 
on campus because HIV and AIDS 
primarily affects young adults.
“HIV impacts youth 
disproportionately,” Travers said. “In fact, the CDC indicates 26 
percent of all new HIV infections 
[in 2010] were youth, even though 
they make up only 17 percent of the 
U.S. population. At UC San Diego 
specifically, we are deeply involved 
in research in HIV/AIDS, and so 
many UCSD students study biology, 
often learning about HIV as they 
begin to understand the basics of 
the viruses. ”
Thurgood Marshall College 
sophomore and event-attendee 
Michael Wang also commented 
on the importance of having this 
event on campus, saying that a lack 
of knowledge about HIV hinders  
students’s ability to understand the 
specifics of the illness. 
“I feel like this event is valuable 
because a huge issue with HIV is 
not understanding the causes of 
it, ” Wang said. “So, by having an 
event like this where people can be 
informed, people can be better able 
to address HIV . ”
Travers reemphasized the 
importance of raising awareness of 
these issues, and how education can 
help people stop HIV and AIDS. 
“I encourage folks to educate 
themselves about HIV and AIDS, ” 
Travers said. “It really impacts 
everyone in some way and it is just a 
matter of figuring out in what ways 
you can make a difference and help 
stop HIV and AIDS.Gates: University of California Produces Energy-Efficient Solutions
Remodeled Shelter Housed Approximately 1,500 People This Yearlabs — produces the kinds of 
groundbreaking technologies that 
will help define a global energy 
future that is cheaper, more reliable 
and does not contribute to climate 
change, ” Gates said in the online 
press release.
Earl Warren College senior 
Connie Wang, who is a member of 
the EcoNauts at UCSD, explained 
that fixing climate issues is a matter 
of preserving our ability to live on 
this planet.
“It isn’t about saving our planets, 
it’s about saving humanity — our 
planet will always be, but the question is how long can we survive 
on our planet,” Wang told the 
Guardian. “We’re trying to prolong 
the human race’s ability to survive 
on this planet, so most of our efforts 
are in education and outreach 
because we need to get people to 
realize that this is a problem in the 
first place. ”
Consistent with the university’s 
goal to preserve the environment 
is the Cool Campus Challenge — 
a competition across campuses 
to get participants to reduce and 
track their carbon footprints. Moser 
commented that the importance of 
having such programs is reminding 
people to play their part in ameliorating the effects of global 
warming and climate change.
“There’s an apathy that we all tend 
to fall into when we’re confronted 
with these gigantic problems that 
seem so out of control,” Moser 
said. “Things like the Cool Campus 
Challenge help raise awareness and 
remind us that small differences do 
add up when you put it all together. ”
COP was first held in Berlin 
in 1995 and since then has seen 
varying degrees of success, such as 
the Kyoto Protocol adoption during 
COP3 and the introduction of the 
Bali Action plan during COP13.▶ AIDS,  from page 1
connecting people to adequate 
shelter and then connecting them 
to the supportive services they need 
is the best way to end the cycle of 
homelessness. ”
San Diego recently transitioned 
its interim housing facility from 
a 16-week winter tent system to a 
year-round indoor housing facility 
in order to use homeless service 
funds more effectively, according 
to a newsletter from the Office of 
Councilmember Todd Gloria.
Between the program’s opening this past April to Sept. 30, 1,414 
clients were served, 53 percent of 
clients who exited the program 
found more stable housing and 87 
percent left with at least one source 
of income.
The homeless are encouraged to 
participate in service programs with 
housing facilities as opposed to living 
outside in public neighborhoods. 
While individuals who give directly 
to homeless people on the streets 
may have good intentions, Keach 
said that they are keeping them 
from seeking more effective, long-term assistance.
“I encourage all San Diegans who 
want to help alleviate homelessness 
to direct their resources (time or 
funds) to organizations who are 
dedicated to truly ending the cycle 
of homelessness, ” Keach explained. 
“Handing out food or money to 
individuals on the street is not 
encouraged; by contributing those 
resources to an organization, they 
can help connect people to the 
services and shelter they need. ”▶ PARIS,  from page 1
▶ HOMELESS,  from page 1
ANDREW CHAO   AVCHAO@ucsd.edureaders can contactMING-RA Y LIAO   M4LIAO@ucsd.edureaders can contact
Looking for the 
New Business 
Column?
Now posted every Wednesday night, 
after the A.S. Council 
meeting, online.
ucsdguardian.orgLISA CHIK   LCHIK@ucsd.edureaders can contact4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , DECEMBER 3, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
Vincent  pham 
vnp003@ucsd.edubo y, interrupted
Blamed and AbandonedOPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CASSIA  POLLOCK
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
It’s too bad that men can’t be like 
male seahorses, the only family 
in the animal kingdom that can 
naturally undergo male pregnancy. 
Of course, men can grow their own 
empathy belly or experience a labor 
simulation, but there is nothing quite 
like the real thing. It’s these attempts 
at bridging the physical aspect of 
pregnancy that forestall the equally 
important non-physical aspects of 
pregnancy. And men should enlighten 
themselves on these experiences 
before they question why women do 
or do not decide to have children.
Chrissy Teigen, American model 
and wife of singer John Legend, 
had an outpouring of social media 
attention in regard to starting a family 
earlier this year, according to Us 
Magazine. In an episode of “FABLife, ” 
Teigen, at 29 years old, remarked 
that asking women about having 
children can be a sensitive topic 
as some women may have fertility 
issues. Undoubtedly, men can have 
similar issues, but social norms tend 
to place the public spotlight of having 
children on women. What Teigen did 
by bringing up fertility shows how 
age, gender and societal pressures can 
construct a mainstream narrative. A 
female with a male counterpart at the 
age of 29 is expected to have kids. It’s 
an easy narrative to follow and one 
that isn’t openly challenged.
There are career and economic 
factors in pregnancy as well. 
According to the Economist, 
a pregnant woman at work is 
typically seen as irrational and less 
motivated. After pregnancy, women 
usually get a “motherhood penalty, ” 
where they’re perceived as less 
focused. On the contrary, a father 
gets a “fatherhood bonus” and is 
seen as more committed to his work 
due to being a father. These double 
standards go hand in hand with 
what the Harvard Business Review 
calls “asymmetries of male-female 
relationships, ” which helps explain 
the 33 percent of “successful career 
women” (i.e. “business executives, 
doctors, lawyers, academics and the 
like”) and 42 percent of women in 
corporate America being childless 
in 2001. Although men — despite 
their age — who want children tend 
to have children, women face the 
opposite effects according to HBR’s 
study. As women age and climb the 
rankings in their career, they tend 
to be more discriminated against as 
potential mates. 
USA Today reported on an 
overall trend of more men wanting 
marriage and children, while 
women simultaneously have shown 
greater interest in their careers and 
independence. As the perception of 
women in our society is changing, 
the perception of childbearing must 
also adapt. The idea that women 
should have kids because they can 
does not always mix well with career 
and personal aspirations of women. 
Men can say they want to be fathers, 
but that won’t give them nine months 
of constant physical change and, of 
course, the labor of birth itself. And 
disruption in work flow for a father 
is not comparable to a mother’s. Sure, 
asking a woman about having kids 
can seem like an innocuous question, 
but familiarize yourself with the 
socioeconomic and career impacts the 
question entails. After all, pregnancy 
is much more profound than a plus or 
minus sign.A suspect recently stole 75 
parking permits, worth a total of 
$17,000, from Gilman Parking 
Structure. While discussing this 
incident with the UCSD Guardian, 
representatives from Transportation 
Services disclosed that the 
department is currently redesigning 
the parking permit system. Under 
their new system, on-campus parkers 
will no longer have to stick permits 
on their windshields. Instead, they’ll 
be required to enter their license plate 
numbers during the payment process 
as a means of identification.
Admittedly, there are some 
advantages to this new model. 
First, it eradicates the possibility of 
permit theft (though students could 
theoretically start stealing license 
plates instead). The recognition 
technology will also make the 
process of identifying illegally 
parked cars more efficient, which 
will hopefully save the university 
time and money. Lastly, an absence 
of physical permits equates to less 
paper wasted and a slightly smaller 
carbon footprint for UCSD.
Despite these advantages, this 
change will make it impossible for 
students to sell or give away their 
permits, which happens relatively 
often. People who share permits 
with their roommates or friends in order to cut down on the exorbitant 
cost of living in La Jolla will now 
have to buy individual permits for 
hundreds of dollars. 
Furthermore, one can’t help 
but question the university’s 
priorities when so many students 
are essentially gambling hundreds 
of dollars every quarter in hopes 
of spending less than a few hours 
to find a half-decent parking spot. 
Instead of studying, attending class 
or working to pay tuition, students 
waste time searching, usually 
unsuccessfully, for “S” spots every 
week, sometimes every day. We’ve 
all heard the stories of students 
being forced to park illegally or 
park all the way at Scripps — 
another bus ride away — to avoid 
being late to class. According to a 
UCSD parking statistics website, 
the best times to find a vacant 
parking spot on a weekday are 
from 8 a.m. to 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. to 
5 p.m. Essentially, this means that 
students either have to come before 
or skip the majority of their classes 
in order to have a good shot at 
parking on campus.
University administrators might 
brush this concern off on the basis 
that students should merely leave 
their homes earlier if they want 
to guarantee themselves a parking spot. However, students should 
not be forced to accommodate the 
university’s deficiencies, especially 
when the university refuses to 
prioritize finding solutions. 
Instead of investing time and 
financial resources into developing 
this new technology, the university 
could have focused on developing 
solutions to the campus’ parking 
shortage. UCSD has started the 
process, however, by building a new 
parking structure located at East 
Campus. The garage’s construction, 
which costs the university $25 
million, is not yet complete, but 
when it is, it will add 1,200 new 
parking spaces to the campus.
But although this looks like 
it would alleviate the problem, 
it unfortunately will not as the 
University of California recently 
announced its plan to enroll 10,000 
additional students over the next 
three years. Thus, even though 
there will technically be more 
parking spots on our campus, we 
will once again encounter the same 
problem: an absurdly low parking-
to-student ratio. And here UCSD 
is, unprepared and unfocused, 
developing useful-yet-unnecessary 
license plate recognition technology 
that does more for the university 
than its students. Theft of  75 Parking Permits Points to Lack of  Available Spaces
Vincent Pham
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Tina Butoiu
MANAGING EDITOR
Rosina Garcia
MANAGING EDITOR  
Cassia Pollock
OPINION EDITOR
Kriti Sarin
NEWS EDITOR
Jacky To
ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITOR
Allison Kubo
FEATURES EDITOR
Kyle Somers
ASSOCIATE FEATURES EDITOREDITORIAL  BOARD
The UCSD Guardian is published twice a week at the 
University of California at San Diego. Contents © 
2015. Views expressed herein represent the majority 
vote of the editorial board and are not necessarily those 
of the UC Board of Regents, the ASUCSD or the 
members of the Guardian staff. In the light of recent terrorist attacks in 2015, the world has 
encountered a fresh wave of Islamophobia. The United 
States House of Representatives quickly responded to 
the Paris attacks by passing a Republican-sponsored bill that 
creates additional, lengthy security checks for immigrants from 
Syria and Iraq, as reported by the CQ Roll Call, an economist 
group business. This action demonstrates a frantic reaction to 
terrorism with legislative decisions founded on fear-based logic. 
Unfortunately, it is not just the House of Representatives making 
poor decisions in regard to the Syrian refugees. This thunderstorm 
of irrational xenophobia has swept across the Western world, 
affecting society on both the macro and micro scales. The most 
important action we can take to combat this is to be aware of the 
circumstances that motivate our behaviors and push ourselves to 
develop a sense of compassion for the outsiders to this country 
who desperately seek our help and understanding.
Terrorist attacks shattered the world this past November, 
including a series of bombings and mass shootings in Paris, 
two suicide bombings in Beirut and an explosion on board a 
Russian jet that claimed the lives of 224 people. This instilled a 
strong fear toward Islamic fundamentalism epitomized by the 
Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant — aka ISIL. While these 
events are tragic, society must not condemn the masses of 
innocent Syrian refugees who were equally outraged and grief-
stricken by the numerous murders that took place. If anything, 
the attacks demonstrate an example of the intense misery and 
horrors that Syrian refugees have been forced to endure in the war-torn corners and back ends of the Middle East.
The backlash against the terrorist attacks in Paris and 
Beirut has not been slow to arrive, and the police gave an 
account of a number of hate crimes that took place both 
in Europe and in the U.S. The Telegraph reported that 
one of these crimes took place in Pittsburgh during the 
Thanksgiving holiday: A Muslim taxi driver was shot in the 
back by a passenger who made a number of remarks on ISIL 
and the Prophet Muhammad prior to attacking the driver 
with a rifle. It seems bitterly ironic that this hate crime was 
carried out on Thanksgiving, a holiday on which we are 
supposed to set aside our differences with all kinds of people 
and learn to appreciate what we have. This goes to show 
that it doesn’t matter what time of year it is. Even with the 
holiday season, some people continue to be dominated by the 
underlying current of xenophobia sweeping the nation.
Another incident occurred at San Diego State two weeks 
ago. An unknown man pulled a Muslim SDSU student by her 
headscarf and made hateful comments regarding her religion. 
That same week, a series of anti-Islamic signs were posted 
around the UCSD campus. Even on the micro-scale, it is clear 
that Islamophobia is present. It is not entirely clear what type of 
remedial actions should be taken to prevent the further spread 
of hysterical fear against Muslims. And one good place to start 
would be to include more fair and balanced depictions of Muslim 
Americans in the media.
Only a little earlier this year, a Muslim student was arrested 
See XENOPHOBIA, page 5Following various attacks of  international terrorism, a wave 
of  xenophobia has swept the nation. Often Syrian refugees and 
Muslims are unfairly blamed for criminal acts beyond their control.ILLUSTRA TION   B Y  CHRISTINA  CARLSONIf  Only I 
Could Be 
Pregnant, 
Like WomenOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , DECEMBER 3, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
for inventing a clock and bringing 
it to class. This happened before the 
Paris attacks even unfolded. As a 
result, it is clear that Islamophobia 
is disheartening but is certainly 
nothing new to this country. Of 
course, people will act shocked 
and appalled that an inventive, 
innovative “ American” boy could 
be exposed to this degree of 
maltreatment. But the moment that 
the safety of America is supposedly 
compromised by terrorist attacks in 
other parts of the Western world, 
society tosses aside its loyalty to its 
very own citizens that make up the core of this country. 
This year’s FBI uniform crime 
report shows that hate crimes 
against all religious, ethnic and 
racial groups, including Black 
and African Americans, are in 
decline with the exception of anti-
Muslim crimes. Since 2002, they 
essentially remained flat. While 
the investigation of previously 
mentioned Islamophobic cases 
continues, the human rights 
violation of Muslim and Middle 
Eastern Americans is recognized as 
a national problem that concerns 
many media sources. 
However, a large share of citizens 
and state officials, including the governors of 26 states, fails to 
recognize that the unwillingness 
to accept Syrian refugees who seek 
asylum in the U.S. is the ultimate 
act of Islamophobia that escalates 
the conflict and does not solve 
the problem of worldwide Islamic 
terrorism. As a nation, we are 
founded on freedom, liberty and 
justice. We create a total mockery of 
our own values if we turn our backs 
on immigrants because we have 
suspicions that they may potentially 
have a connection with some bad 
guys, maybe. That is why it is crucial 
for America to wake up already and 
stop accepting a spirit of intolerance 
as the norm.
CONFUSED MUSE By Elyse Yang
Fear-Based Approach to Immigrants Leads to Hate Crimes and Intolerance
▶ XENOPHOBIA from page 4SEND YOUR 
LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGGOT
ANGER?STAR 
WARSArts & Entertainment Editor: Karly Nisson 
entertainment@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle Editors: 
Olga Golubkova and Brittney Lu
lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
MAC-
BETH
THE  
REvEnAnT
#:%*&5&3+06#&35
4&/*0345"''83*5&3
   According to the Hollywood Reporter, crew members 
on the set of Inarittu’s latest film, “The Revenant,” have 
been quitting in droves due to the grueling work schedule 
and unrealistic demands of the director. Perhaps this is 
due to delusions of grandeur on Inarittu’s part, following 
his recent Academy Award win. But based on the trailer 
alone, the brutal production experience could simply be a 
necessary consequence of the struggle for perfection.
   Not even basic techniques in the director’s toolbox went 
unscathed, as Inarittu and cinematographer Emmanuel 
Lubezki refused the use of any artificial lighting while 
shooting. Instead, they planned production around times 
of optimal natural light to depict the 1820’s fur-trapping 
frontier with a natural aesthetic.
    In such an atmosphere, the story of Hugh Glass (Leon -
ardo DiCaprio) is poised to enthrall and transcend its sim -
ple (at least compared to “Birdman”) premise of survival 
and vengeance. If all the sacrifices made in production pay 
off, this could be the film that not only cements Inarittu 
as one of the finest contemporary directors, but lands 
Dicaprio that elusive Oscar statuette.
STAR 
WARS
#:/"'5"-*#63",074,:
&%*503*"-"44*45"/5
Aside from some of our professors, no one at UCSD 
was alive to witness the release of “Star Wars” in 
1977. None of us were in the audience when the 
battle between the Jedi and the Sith captivated a 
generation. This jealousy of the older generations’ 
experience will end on December 18, 2015, the day 
“Star Wars: The Force Awakens” hits theaters. We 
already know the film will break box office records. 
But by bringing back members of the original cast, 
including one of the writers (Lawrence Kasdan) and 
putting the talented director J.J. Abrams at the helm, 
Disney is making sure it won’t break hearts. Abrams 
proved his ability to direct a sci-fi space adventure 
with the visually spectacular 2009 film “Star Trek” 
but has always strived to apply his visual style to a 
“Star Wars” film. From the first trailer, “The Force 
Awakens” establishes itself as visually distinct from 
the original trilogy; we see sweeping, colorful shots 
and flashy CGI, all of which is far more grandiose 
than Lucas’ classic. Maybe 2015’s “Star Wars” 
won’t be the space opera that the 1977 film was, but 
there isn’t a soul alive who doesn’t want to experi -
ence this modern journey to a galaxy far, far away.THE  Big 
SHoRT
   A film can’t rest on the laurels of its writing, especially 
if it’s a Shakespeare adaptation. An entire world has to be 
built within the confines of a frame and occupied with the 
singular vision and raw visual elements from the mind of 
this madness’ ringleader, director Justin Kurzel.
   “Macbeth” isn’t remembered because of the intricacy 
of its plot — the substance lies in its characters, who are 
traitors and liars. Narrative precedence rightly moves from 
plot in literature to people in cinema; Michael Fassbender 
and Marion Cotillard are intent on making waves as the 
conniving Macbeth and Lady Macbeth this grim December, 
lending their youth and talent to this 400-year-old tale.
With the eye of expert cinematographer Adam Arkapaw 
(“Animal Kingdom,” “True Detective”), “Macbeth” will 
be sure to stun with its grandeur and cinematic beauty. 
It’s one thing to deliver a film with some of the finest actors 
alive and a story from the bard himself, but 
when a shot shows Macbeth standing 
against the burning sky like a monster at 
the gates of hell, fate has been decided 
and tickets have been bought.
HATEFUL
EIGHTTina Poehler and Amy Fey. Like 
Kristen Wiig and Maya Rudolph, these 
two “comedians” compose one of the 
worst comedy duos to ever graduate 
from Saturday Night Live. Countless 
failures such as “Mean Girls,” the 
2013 Golden Globes and, my god, the 
2014 Golden Globes have cemented 
their legacy as the worst thing to hap -
pen to comedy since Robin Williams.
However, light is ahead for Poehfey -
ler as they look to break out in their 
newest holiday comedy “Sisters,” 
which co-stars 15-time WWE World 
Heavyweight Champion and future 
Oscar-winner John Cena. Directed 
by Jason Moore of “Pitch Perfect” 
fame, the film will likely win the “Best 
Comedy or Musical” award twice at 
this year’s Golden Globes. 
Sure, one might point out the random 
nature of the trailer to justify low ex -
pectations for “Sisters.” If, God forbid, 
this ever be the case, one should then 
look upon this poem to restore faith in SiSTERSRelease  Date: Dec. 25#:4".7&-";26&;
&%*503*"-"44*45"/5
Release  Date: Dec. 4
Jennifer Lawrence letting loose with a shotgun. That’s priceles s. Indeed, “Joy” is a film 
with smoldering potential. Immediately, attention goes to the dynamic superstar 
who is yet again paired with her big-money partner, director Da vid O. Russell — 
everything they touch turns into creative gold. True, the story  is all about the lady 
who invented the Miracle Mop, Joy Mangano, but if “American Hus tle” taught 
us anything, this isn’t going to be your cookie-cutter period p iece. Otherwise, 
the welcomed additions of previous collaborators Bradley Cooper  and Robert 
De Niro look to add more panache to the typically quirky dramed y of 
Russell. But don’t discount Jennifer Lawrence, because after all, this 
is undoubtedly her show, despite what any pay gap might suggest. 
Forget supporting Oscar statuettes and leave images of dystopia n 
worlds behind. In many ways “Joy” has the potential, like “Silv er 
Linings Playbook,” to propel Lawrence into every Best Actress 
conversation out there.  JoY
#:5:/"/:"/"("
4&/*0345"''83*5&3Release  Date: Dec. 25
Release  Date: Dec. 17
#:+"$,:50
45"''83*5&3
Release  Date: Dec. 18
this ever be the case, one should then 
look upon this poem to restore faith in 
this film’s sublime potential.
Roses are red, violets are blue.
Gods are false; “Sisters” is Truth.
THE
#:%&3&,%&/(
$0/53*#65*/(83*5&3
Release  Date: Dec. 25
Grit. Blood. Snarky dialogue. More 
blood. Even more blood. Tarantino 
movies have always had certain 
attributes inherent in them  — they’re 
bold and extravagant, brazenly 
entertaining and needlessly quotable. And there’s a new one coming out.
“The Hateful Eight” will be Quentin 
Tarantino’s second foray into the world 
of stylized westerns since 2012’s 
“Django Unchained,” a hyper-violent 
revenge tale injected with a healthy 
dose of heart and depth. “The Hateful 
Eight” looks to be a different venture 
this time around, promising a more 
tightly focused drama that revolves 
around its talented ensemble cast. 
Centered in the heart of wintry 
Wyoming, eight individuals take 
shelter in a stagecoach passover 
following a snowstorm. Criminals, 
lawmen and bounty hunters gather 
under the same roof, and soon they 
learn that the apparently simple 
situation is not so cut-and-dry. As 
tension brews, conflict unfolds in 
typical Tarantino fashion — there will 
be blood on the snow.ILLUSTRATION BY ELYSE YANG
ILLUSTRATION BY ELYSE YANGILLUSTRATION BY SAGE CHRISTIAN SCHUBERT
ILLUSTRATION BY ELYSE YANGILLUSTRATION BY 
CHRISTINA CARLSON
this film’s sublime potential.
Roses are red, violets are blue.
Gods are false; “Sisters” is Truth. THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , DECEMBER 3, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
Your Student Uni n.Good Luck  
With Finals!
- Your Starbucks Barista Team
Need gift ideas? Stop in for coffee, 
mugs, cups, gift cards & more!
Hours:
Mon - Fri: 7am to 11pm  
Sat: 8am to 11pm   Sun: 9:30am to 11pm
Location: Price Center West, Level 1
YOU’RE NOT JUST PART OF A CLASS. 
YOU’RE PART OF A LEGACY.
At the American School of Professional Psychology at Argosy University | Southern California 
(ASPP, Southern California), we have a proud history of diversity, academic exc ellence, and 
community engagement. Our clinical psychology leaders and distinguished faculty have 
a deep commitment to the education and training of the next generation of professional 
psychologists. With our integrated curriculum, you’ll go beyond books and classrooms and 
receive real-world clinical experience. This comprehensive approach reﬂ  ects our commitment 
to prepare you to be an exceptional practitioner; ready to meet the challenges of the diverse 
people and communities you will serve. 
And that commitment to you is reﬂ  ected in the profession’s commitment to us. We’re proud 
to say that we received a seven-year grant of accreditation for our Doctor of Psychology 
in Clinical Psychology (PsyD) program from the APA. That’s the maximum amount of time 
allowed by the Commission on Accreditation and certiﬁ  es that our school meets their 
rigorous standards.
ASPP, Southern California, off  ers the following degrees:
MASTER OF ARTS IN CLINICAL PSYCHOLOGY
DOCTOR OF PSYCHOLOGY (PSYD) 
IN CLINICAL PSYCHOLOGY
Argosy University, Orange County
601 South Lewis Street
Orange, CA 92868 
Let us help you practice what we teach. 
Learn more today at clinical.argosy.edu 
or call 714-620-3700.
The Doctor of Psychology in Clinical Psychology Program at the American School of Professional Psychology at Argosy University | Southern California is 
accredited by the Commission on Accreditation of the American Psychological Association (APA). Questions related to the program ’s accredited status should 
be directed to the Commission on Accreditation: O ﬃ  ce of Program Consultation and Accreditation, American Psychological Association, 750 1st Street, NE, 
Washington, DC 20002 Phone: (202) 336-5979 / E-mail: apaaccred@apa.org Web: www.apa.org/ed/accreditation.
Argosy University is accredited by the Senior College and University Commission of the Western Association of Schools and Colle ges (985 Atlantic Ave., Suite 100, 
Alameda, CA 94501, wascsenior.org). Programs, credential levels, technology, and scheduling options vary by school and are subj ect to change. Credentials and 
experience levels vary by faculty and instructors. Not all online programs are available to residents of all U.S. states. Argos y University, Orange County, 601 South 
Lewis Street, Orange CA 92868 © 2015 Argosy University. All rights reserved. Our email address is materialsreview@argosy.edu. 
See auprograms.info for program duration, tuition, fees and other costs, median debt, salary data, alumni success, and other im portant information.
THE  Big 
SHoRT
In 2008, the tremendous greed and utter 
lack of foresight on the part of the big banks 
of Wall Street led to the most devastating 
financial collapse since the Great Depression. 
Millions lost their jobs and trillions of dollars 
disappeared into a financial abyss. This 
is the consequence of the deregulation of 
banking institutions as well as the misguided 
assumption that housing prices can only rise. 
“The Big Short,” directed by Adam McKay, 
tells the story of how four outsiders who 
predicted the housing bubble burst take on 
the big banks and short the market before the 
crisis. These four are played by Hollywood 
heavy-hitters Brad Pitt, Ryan Gosling, 
Christian Bale and Steve Carell. In finance, 
a “short,” from which the film derives its 
name, is the selling of a stock that you do not 
currently own and then making a profit on the 
repurchase when the stock drops in price. For 
those who can predict a financial meltdown, 
like the four in the film did, it is an effective 
way of making huge profits. The 2008 
mortgage crisis is one that everyone in finance 
wishes they had foreseen; it will be intriguing 
to see how four men can profit so much during 
this dark time in American banking history 
when many Americans are still struggling 
because of the banks’ greed. Let’s hope 
that this film, with its star-studded cast and 
powerful true story, doesn’t come up short. Ano MAL iSA“A fool may ask more questions 
in an hour than a wise man can 
answer in seven years.” We all 
know the English proverb; the 
problem with Charlie Kaufman 
is that he plays the wise man and 
the fool simultaneously. It’s been 
seven years since his enigmatic 
directorial debut “Synecdoche, 
New York” left us in a state of 
pure stupefaction. Seven years 
we waited for an answer, a hint 
to make sense of that wonderful 
mess. And all we got was silence. 
Well, Kaufman is finally back. 
“Anomalisa,” a stop-motion 
animated feature, follows a lonely 
motivational speaker whose life 
changes after meeting a stranger. 
The few images shown in the trailer 
confirmed our suspicion: As in 
every Kaufman film, we are again 
set for a meta-referential mind-trip. 
“Anomalisa” is a continuation of 
“Synecdoche” — an interpretation 
of sorts. Kaufman commenting on 
Kaufman. Two mirrors facing each 
other. The wise man playing the 
fool. Enjoy… it may take another 
seven years for the spectacle to 
repeat itself.   #:/"'5"-*#63",074,:
&%*503*"-"44*45"/5Release  Date: Dec. 23
#:."3*0"55*&
4&/*0345"''83*5&3
Release  Date: Dec. 30ILLUSTRATION BY CHRISTINA CARLSON
ILLUSTRATION BY 
CHRISTINA CARLSON
this film’s sublime potential.
Roses are red, violets are blue.
Gods are false; “Sisters” is Truth.The dynamic and dangerous 
duo of two Tom Hardys 
brings chaos, violence and 
general badassery to London. The 
narrator aptly notes “The Queen 
would survive, but God save the 
rest of us. ”
“Legend” centers around the Kray 
brothers (Tom Hardy), two twins 
heavily involved with the inner circle 
of London crime in the 1960s. The first 
brother, Reggie Kray, is as charming 
as he is frightening, smoothly 
transitioning from a charismatic heart-
throb to an intimidating criminal. The second brother, Ron Kray, can 
only be described as unhinged and 
violently unstable. He’s diagnosed 
as a paranoid schizophrenic, and 
his actions are highly unpredictable, 
resulting in a slew of issues for Reggie 
and their business. A large part of the 
film follows the relationship between 
Reggie and Frances Shea (Emily 
Browning), who is pushed and pulled 
by Reggie’s complicated life, causing 
him to be in and out of prison and 
her to question what kind of man he 
really is. 
The idea of two drastically different brothers lording over 
criminal London together sets up 
for some very rowdy and hilarious 
scenes. They strike deals, form 
alliances, intimidate men who 
owe them money and take part in 
other mob movie staples, all amid 
Ron’s ill-timed breakdowns and 
inappropriately blunt comments. 
During Reggie’s wedding, Frances’s 
mother, who is less than pleased 
with the union, refuses to sing, so 
Ron gets in her face mid-ceremony 
and yells, “Fucking sing!” Ron’s lines, 
as well as the brothers’ brawls, are 
outrageous and entertaining in all 
the right ways; brotherly bickering 
translates to bar fighting surprisingly 
well, especially when Tom Hardy’s 
opponent is Tom Hardy.
His unpolished humor aside, 
Ron is a complicated character with 
many layers. Despite his mental 
illness, he has an unexpected amount of wisdom that surfaces at random. 
Though criminally insane, he is not 
the source of the film’s most heinous 
crimes. Reggie is equally if not more 
responsible for bloodshed. The 
comparison of the brothers’ misdeeds 
and their respective mental states 
makes it unclear which brother is the 
more obvious villain and calls our 
assumptions of roles into question.
Though the film is comic, thought-
provoking and action-packed, it is 
also riddled with shortcomings. Is 
Helgeland’s use of humor suitable 
for this film? It brushes up against 
more than a handful of fairly heavy 
issues: drug addiction, suicide, rape, 
murder, mental illness and others. 
Y et it doesn’t quite find the balance 
between seriousness and humor to 
achieve a black comedy,the jokes too 
frequent to serve solely as comedic 
relief. What results from the uneven 
spurts of humor is a dark film with inappropriate flippancy. The tone 
very clearly doesn’t match the topic, 
though the central theme itself isn’t 
clearly defined. 
Legend couldn’t seem to decide 
on what it wanted to say. Was the film 
about Ron and Reggie’s complicated 
relationship, Frances’s interaction with 
Reggie, the Kray brothers’ empire or 
Reggie’s fall from glory? We’re not 
even completely sure who the main 
character is. The movie is split fairly 
evenly between Reggie and Frances. 
While the film provides a healthy 
amount of slapstick humor, it is less 
than successful in getting its point 
across. The pros fail to counteract 
or even outweigh the cons, letting a 
storyline with so much potential fall 
flat in its execution.
—  Chriss y  Dodd
Contributing WriterS: A comedy striving to be politically 
poignant in the heart of Chicago’s 
long-denigrated South Side with 
Nick Cannon as a lead sounds like 
a recipe for disaster, but Lee is more 
than a miracle worker — he’s a 
genius. It’s hard to imagine anybody 
but Lee pulling off a feat like this. In 
a tight 118 minutes, he condemns 
the NRA, the media’s selective and 
racialized coverage of national 
tragedies, institutionalized racism, 
the militarization of our police 
forces, the privatization of prisons 
and male privilege with aplomb and 
humor. This is an ambitious but 
focused attack that never belittles the suffering and human cost of crime 
birthed by a society that prefers to 
stay silent on “ugly” issues like these.
J: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Indeed, Lee 
hits all of these issues intelligently 
and ferociously, but we applaud 
rather than sneeze at his sermons 
because they’re engulfed by wit 
and hilarity. Joining Cannon 
is this year’s greatest comedic 
ensemble, composed of the likes 
of Dave Chappelle, Wesley Snipes, 
muthafuckin’ Samuel L. Jackson, 
John Cusack and so many others 
whom you can’t help but wildly 
grin at. But the great thing is that they don’t even have to do 
much of the heavy lifting. They 
leave that to Lee and his co-scribe 
Kevin Wilmott who usher them to 
comedic greatness. Their script, 
with its biting blend of modernity 
and classicism, grants the citizens 
of Chicago the complexity and 
integrity they deserve.
S: The power of the speeches 
throughout the film, especially 
standouts from the impassioned 
Father Mike Corridan (John 
Cusack) and Lysistrata (Teyonah 
Parris), keeps the film’s engine 
running hot by refusing to hold 
back from indictments. There’s no 
pandering to be had and no nerves 
left untouched. Moving past the 
script for a bit and going behind 
the camera, Lee’s technical skills are 
incredibly underrated. His eye for 
color and geometric composition is 
phenomenal, particularly shining in 
the dance numbers that make use of intricate choreography and bold 
colors. Wholly organic overtures 
burst with life in a city known for 
the opposite, and the human body 
becomes another instrument in 
Lee’s tool belt, demanding focus by 
stealing our attention with every 
twist and turn.
J: Continuing the topics of color 
and the human body, black bodies 
are many in “Chi-Raq. ” However, 
they’re not merely present for the 
sake of diversity or good face. “Chi-
Raq” is a film about black lives 
told from the perspective of black 
people, an extreme rarity in this art 
form. Regardless of the film’s quality, 
which is certainly worthwhile, it is 
absolutely admirable and courageous 
of an artist to consistently opt to 
tell the stories of those who are 
oppressed as opposed to of those 
who oppress them. Especially at 
a time when ethnic on-screen 
representation has finally become an outspoken issue, Lee thankfully 
plants himself, as he always has, 
firmly on the right side of the fight.
S&J: “Chi-Raq” ends on a bittersweet 
note, positing a bright future 
while remaining honest about the 
grim present. The arc of Cannon’s 
character, who calls himself “Chi-
Raq, ” exemplifies what Lee wants 
for Chicago. His path to begin 
taking responsibility for the city’s 
violence is a messianic sacrifice. The 
community can then refocus on the 
grander battle against the systematic 
issues that pits the people against 
themselves. Dead to rights, the film 
leaves us with a heavy heart and, 
hopefully, empty holsters.
—Jacky  TO
Staff Writer
&
—Sam  VelaZquez
Editorial Assistant 
Directed by   Brian Helgeland
Starring   Tom Hardy, Taron Egerton, Emily Browning
Rated  R
Release Date  Nov. 20Tom Hardy plays both a charming convict and his 
impulsive twin in a crime film that offers limited thrills.Directed by  Spike Lee
Starring  Teyonah Parris, Nick Cannon, Samuel L. Jackson, John Cusack
Rated  R
Release Date  Dec. 4, 2015Spike Lee adapts a classic Greek comedy in modern-day 
Chicago to deliver a both timely and timeless joint.
LegendCHI-RAQ
FILM   REVIEWFILM   REVIEW
PHOTOS COURTESY OF ACESHOWBIZPHOTOS COURTESY OF ACESHOWBIZ THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , DECEMBER 3, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
The  Christian  
Lifestyle:  
An Advice 
Column 
It’s the holiday season, and 
you’re (homeward) bound 
to get some awkward family 
questions about why you switched 
your major to “Freeganism” as 
a new-wave movement to reject 
capitalism, or why you’ve decided 
to enroll in a three-step online 
degree for regional Iowa geography. 
Rest assured, there are better ways 
to circumvent the glaring eyes of 
boundary-erasing relatives than 
pretending you have a phone call 
about your sweet tooth — because, 
really, your dentist is not going to 
call you when they’re sitting in a 
luxury spa in Cabo — or saying that 
Pablo the stuffed polar bear needs 
a diaper change. They may try to 
grill you, but you’re going to make 
grilled-cheese sandwiches. 
In order to execute a proper 
strategy, however, it’s necessary 
to master the importance of body 
language and how it affects the 
conversation before proceeding — 
it’s impossible to take action against 
family microaggressions when you’re 
rubbing the back of your head or 
when you’re shriveled like a raisin. 
If you find yourself engaging in 
such habits, take a deep breath and 
channel your inner Sasha Fierce. Sit 
upright, cross your arms and legs 
(if you so please), crack your neck 
and smile. If the family wants an 
answer to why you “haven’t done 10 
internships, ” they’ll get an answer 
all right.
There are two major phyla of 
argumentation that could easily 
necessitate a Dickens-length essay. 
The first is a head-strong approach. 
Criticize their curtness and lack 
of creativity in asking such an 
awful question and — just so it’s 
a learning experience — offer 
sound advice. Follow this structure 
in your own creative fill-in-the-
blank. For example, if Aunt Myrtle 
criticizes you for not having a real 
job, sharpen your tone: “I don’t 
appreciate such inflammatory 
language that often perpetuates 
the generational gap between 
millennials and baby boomers, 
contributing to internalized low 
self-esteem which is then blamed 
on social media. Your question is 
also inherently flawed, and a more 
appropriate incarnation would be, 
‘What are your passions in life?’”
Other times, it might be 
necessary to deflect their criticism 
back onto them. Family members 
don’t exactly have boundaries 
(because they’re family) so it’s 
important to remind them of what 
is appropriate. Questions that 
bring up politics, healthcare and 
vegetarianism as the reason for your 
lack of a significant other are great 
moments where you can redirect: 
“What is your plan for dealing 
with student debt?’ ‘I don’t know, 
Uncle Franklin, tell me how you 
paid for that loan you took out on 
your special toy collection. Where 
do you get the money for vintage 
gazebos?’” Hold up a literal mirror 
for added emphasis.
If you’re lost for words purely 
because of the shock value, however, 
resorting to that sudden dentist 
phone call isn’t such a bad idea.
Need any advice on acclimating 
to UCSD? Struggling with a 
nasty case of the break-up? Need 
better ways to burn a tuna melt 
sandwich? Reach out to us at
lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org 
with your questions and your 
anonymity, if wanted, and we’ll 
answer as many as we can!
CHRISTIAN GELLA 
CGELLA@UCSD.EDU
Spiked  Mexican  
Hot cHocolateVin BRU le
(MU lled  Wine)FiRe-cide R
Now you know why abuelita’s so fun — 
spoiler alert: there’s a little something 
special in her mug.
Serves one
1 ounce Kahlua 
Cinnamon hot chocolate (recommended: 
Nestle’s Abuelita Chocolate)   
Ground cinnamon (as much as desired)
Whipped cream (optional)
To a heatproof mug, add Kahlua and 
then fill 3/4 of the mug with prepared 
cinnamon hot chocolate. Top with 
whipped cream and sprinkle with 
cinnamon. Serve immediately.Europeans win for inventing this particularly 
delectable, soul-warming wine beverage. If 
you’re not planning a European vacation this 
winter break, you can easily recreate this 
Christmas classic at home. Just don’t burn 
the wine. It’s a sad day when a bottle of wine 
has gone to waste. 
Serves four
One 750-ml bottle red wine
1 orange, sliced
1/4 cup brandy (optional)
1/4 cup honey or sugar
8 whole cloves
2 cinnamon sticks
2 star anise
In a saucepan, combine all ingredients 
and bring to a simmer over medium-high 
heat. Reduce heat to medium-low and 
let simmer for at least 15 minutes. Strain 
and serve warm.There’s nothing quite like that warm and fuzzy feeling that the holiday brings. Maybe it’s the 
cheerful music, being around loved ones or maybe — just maybe — it’s the warm, boozy 
beverages that help get everyone in the holiday spirit.  
Lifestyle Senior Writer
This is the ultimate simple holiday 
cocktail. With only two ingredients, 
there’s really no way to go wrong. Try 
it with hard apple cider to amplify the 
warm, fuzzy feeling inside.
Serves one
1 part Fireball Whiskey
1 part apple cider 
In a coffee mug, mix ingredients and 
garnish with a cinnamon stick.Always a bit too quick to jump onto the latest parenting trends, my parents never eased me into the harsh reality that Santa was a mere facet of our 
consumerist tendencies. Instead of allowing me to relish in the idea that there was a jolly, plump man who would come bring me gifts in exchange for 
cookies, my parents rushed me into adulthood quicker than a Hot Pocket takes to microwave. At the ripe age of four, my parents wasted no time to point 
out the inconsistencies of Santa’s character at each mall and movie and that it was absolutely impossible to squeeze a fully grown human through a chimney. 
Consequently, this would begin my own crusade to let my fellow naive kindergarten friends know the brutal truth, turning me into both a liar and messenger 
of bad news. Ultimately, I wasn’t sure who was more savage — my parents telling me Santa wasn’t real or me telling four-year-old children. 
By Brittney Lu // Lifestyle Co-Editor
Making the holiday season magical for their children is an annual task for many parents who celebrate Christmas. Amusing a child by adopting an alter 
ego of an omnibenevolent chubby old man already requires time and effort, but my parents took their Santa game to the next level. As a professional 
designer, my mom would always wrap presents in brown kraft paper and decorate response letters from “Santa” with a wax seal. My Russian dad who worked 
as a head of international media relations, in turn, would write letters in English, since I believed that the real Santa Claus lived in Finland and did not speak 
my first language. 
The delivery of the present was also a special ritual because my parents would discreetly leave my present under the Christmas tree before going for a walk, 
successfully staying off my radar. To this day I am impressed by my parents’ Santa skills. I’ve been making attempts to figure out how my mom and dad were 
so sneaky, but they never told me the truth. In fact, they never admitted it was them. When I turned 15, I simply stopped asking any Santa questions because 
they seemed naive. So, in the end, I still have no proof the guy in a red velveteen costume does not exist. By Olga Golubkova // Lifestyle Co-Editor
Around nine years old, the rumors of Santa’s nonexistence reached their peak, but when I asked my parents, the most trustworthy source of information, 
they said he did exist. But, because it just didn’t add up, I decided to plant a camera in our Christmas tree in an attempt to catch Santa or whoever was 
impersonating him. But I was nine and obviously didn’t own a camcorder — that was expensive in 2005. Instead, I asked my dad if I could borrow his. When 
he asked what for, being the trustworthy child I am (was), I told him the truth. Later that night, I realized the error of my ways, but it was too late. I just 
hoped my parents forgot.
That Christmas day was one of high anticipation. I opened presents and tried to seem excited, but all I really wanted to do was view my footage. I was 
so curious. Might my dad have deleted the footage? Does Santa appear on video? Instead, all I had was approximately three hours of a black screen and 
incomprehensible rustling noises. I didn’t even bother fast-forwarding through all the footage. By this point I had basically given up on the idea of Santa 
anyway; I just wanted proof — proof I will never get.  By Sherman Aline // Contributing Writer
For as long as I can remember, I was skeptical of the idea of Santa Claus. I can probably blame this skepticism on my older brother, as he would always 
tells me outlandish lies and exploit my young, impressionable mind. So when he told me that Santa was just a truck driver from Canada who delivered 
my presents, I had as much reason to believe him as everyone else that told me Santa was a magical old man from the North Pole. But there was always some 
mystery surrounding Santa, and I didn’t completely dismiss him until I was around eight years old. On this fateful morning, I went down to the Christmas 
tree before my parents had woken up, eager to see my presents. I looked at all of them and noticed something strange: The handwriting on the presents 
from Santa was awfully similar to the handwriting on the presents from my parents. Perhaps I was meant to be a detective. I put two and two together, and I 
realized that Santa, as I had suspected, was a fraud. Looking back, this is the moment I first applied the idea of Occam’s Razor to a mystical phenomenon: The 
simplest solution is probably the correct one. By Naftali Burakovsky // Contributing WriterEveryone knows that once Santa 
becomes a mere facet of the imagination, 
there’s no point to childhood anymore. 
That pivotal moment is an essential part 
of everyone’s transition from desiring 
toys under the tree to figuring out 401Ks. 
Read on to hear how college students 
realized they were no longer living a 
world of men coming down chimneys and 
flying reindeer but one of brutal realities 
and mundane obligations.
 ILLUSTRATION BY CHRISTINA CARLSON 
10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , DECEMBER 3, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDS$
Gua rdian Classifieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedsBIKES
Fuji Finest 1.0 - $550. 2009 Fuji Finest 1.0 
Women’s bike for sale. I am not sure how to 
determine the size, but my wife is 5’8” and 
she had it sized for her. It has only been 
ridden a few times and spent the rest of the 
time in the garage. Exceptional condition, 
all original parts and tires. Listing ID: 
211904055 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Road/Race Bike - $500. Selling my superb 
condition Road/Trek Racing bike by 
NOVARA STRADA (an6AL 6000) series. 
Size 24.5” or 62cm, perfect for someone 
who’s 5’10” or taller. It has front carbon 
fiber fork. Well maintained and all custom 
Shimano parts with a new Shimano SPD 
pedal. Hub/Chain or frame rust free. With all 
the upgrades it has about $2000 invested. 
Very lightweight. Listing ID: 211904054 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
26” Aluminum 3-Speed Cruiser w/ Basket 
- $140. 26in wheels. Three-speed hub with 
coaster brake. Comes with basket. Choices 
of three different seats. All aluminum frame. 
Fantastic condition. Listing ID: 211904053 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
informationELECTRONICS
Apple iPhone 6S 16GB - $235. Brand 
new. Never used. Never touched. Factory 
unlocked. Genuine product. Comes with 
complete accessories. Has one-year 
international warranty from Apple. Listing 
ID: 211885925 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
80in Sharp TV - $2300. Only had one year. 
3D capabilities, plasma, smart television. 
Will include entertainment center on photo. 
Listing ID: 211904118 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Halo 5 Guardians Xbox One - $45. 
Selling Halo 5 Guardians for Xbox One. 
Still in exceptional condition. Listing ID: 
211904110 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
SPORTS
Surfboard - $20. In attractive shape. 
No cracks. Listing ID: 211904162 at 
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
informationGarmin 305 GPS Watch - $20. This is the 
complete kit with thumb drive to sync to 
your computer and the wall charger. Works 
fine. Listing ID: 211904163 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
2009 Yankees Photo Plaque - $35. Includes 
Derek Jeter and Alex Rodriguez baseball 
cards. Still in original plastic covering. 
Listing ID: 209115510 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more informationComplete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies 
on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.ukLevel: 1234 Level: 1234
SUDOKU
WANTED
Four singers/musical director wanted 
for January 2016 professional recording 
of 11 satirical Christmas carols.
San Diego recording studio. Good pay. Preference for an 
existing ensemble. Soprano/alto/tenor/bass
Contact: laurence.watts@westwicke.com for more details.
www.ucsdguardian.org/advertising
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , DECEMBER 3, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
Finished 13th at the NCAA West 
Regionals.Took seventh at the NCAA West 
Regionals and placed one runner in 
the All-West Region team.Reached the first round of the 
CCAA Tournament before falling to 
Cal State Los Angeles. Won a record ninth CCAA 
tournament win and a first-round 
appearance as the fourth seed in the 
NCAA West Regionals.Squeezed into the NCAA 
West Regionals as the sixth seed 
and will play this Friday.
Will face Princeton in a 
play-in game for the NCAA 
Championship to qualify for the 
Final Four.
Upset No. 4 California Baptist last 
week, is unbeaten, currently ranked 
No. 22 and faces Cal State Monterey 
Bay this Friday at RIMAC Arena.Is 5-1 to open the season, fresh 
off an upset over No. 25 Azusa 
Pacific and enters the bulk of their 
CCAA schedule this week.regulate weight loss to keep athletes 
from falling to an unhealthy weight 
in order to improve their match 
performance.
However, even with the 
regulation, there are still loopholes. 
CHSAA can’t regulate athletes 
outside of the regular season. Joe 
dropped weight as fast as he could 
to make it into the desired 136 
weight class. Mind you, this is a 
six-foot-tall kid that normally sat 
around 160 to 170 pounds. The 
question is how effective cutting 
that much weight was for him.
Cutting weight is detrimental 
to the athlete after a while: Muscle 
starts to waste away and weaken 
because of lack of nutrients. 
Any seasoned athlete would 
know this, but it’s often last-
minute desperation that causes 
athletes to resort to measures 
like this. Curbing food intake 
this drastically, even for a short 
period of time, weakens the body 
considerably; it’s not “dieting” to 
improve performance — it’s an 
eating disorder. Yet some coaches still push their players, directly 
or indirectly, to “just drop a few 
pounds. ”
It isn’t just wrestlers either. 
Multiple boys I ran cross country 
with in high school had a tendency 
to try to shed weight fast before 
races — the less weight they had 
to carry, the faster they thought 
they’ d run. Though this is true to 
an extent, not eating breakfast and 
only eating a very tiny amount in 
the days prior to racing rarely has 
any positive effect.
Yes, female athletes do tend 
to succumb to the pressure 
more frequently than their male 
counterparts. However, that’s not 
to say that boys don’t feel the heat 
when competition season rolls 
around. No matter your gender, 
the pressure to attain a better 
physique is always there. It’s just 
a matter of whether it’s healthy 
pressure that improves strength 
or poor encouragement that 
results in weakness and mediocre 
performance.Male Athletes Also Experience Body Issues 
▶ BODY IMAGE,  from page 12
past regular season. 
All of the West Regional matches 
will feature live coverage, including 
live stats and live video. Tickets for 
the event have been on sale since 
Saturday, Nov. 28.
Top-seeded University of Alaska 
Anchorage will be hosting the 
quarterfinals of the NCAA Division-II 
West Regional on Dec. 4 at the Alaska 
Airlines Center. The semifinals will take place the following day, Saturday, 
Dec. 5, and the championship match 
of the West Regional will take place 
on Sunday, Dec. 6. 
The winner of the championship 
match will be crowned NCAA 
Division-II West Regional champ 
and will advance onto the Elite Eight, 
which will be held in Tampa, Florida 
from Dec. 10 to Dec. 12.Sierks Earns First All-West Region Honors
▶ W. VOLLEYBALL,  from page 12Ka tie potts    
Gurkira t singh    Men’s Soccer Women’s SoccerWomen’s Volleyball
Men’s Cross Country Women’s Cross CountryMen’s Water Polo
Men’s Basketball Women’s BasketballSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
MARCUS THUILLIER
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , DECEMBER 3, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
In most — if not all — sports, 
the ideal athlete has a toned, 
strong body with a low body-fat 
percentage. For a good handful of 
athletes, there’s constant pressure 
from parents, coaches and even 
teammates to drop just a little 
more weight to ramp up athletic 
performance.
For some, it results in poor 
eating habits, some escalating into 
full-blown eating disorders, in an 
effort to stay within the so-called 
“ideal” range for fitness. Former 
UCSD Guardian staffer Lorato 
Anderson put this into perspective 
in her 2012 article “Body Image 
and the Female Athlete, ” citing what 
KidsHealth.com dubbed the “Female 
Athlete Triad. ” The gist is that the 
pressure put on female athletes to 
attain that “perfect” shape and size 
pushes them to have a negative body 
image, which can sometimes lead 
to eating disorders in an effort to 
improve performance.
The negative body image is 
often seen as a distinctly feminine 
struggle. However, even if not as 
prevalent, it still is an issue among 
male athletes as well.
Wrestling is a prime example. It 
isn’t a sport that sits in the public 
eye (not traditional wrestling, at 
least), so we don’t really notice 
the athletes as much as we would 
a football or basketball player. 
The pressure for perfection is 
still there, though. I knew a good 
handful of wrestlers in high school 
because my brother was one, and 
the objective was the same across 
the board: Drop into lower-weight 
classes to gain an advantage over 
your opponents. The less fat you 
carried, the higher your likelihood 
of getting takedowns and pinning 
your opponent. Less fat usually 
meant higher agility and ease in 
countering your opponent’s moves.
One case stands out in my mind 
in particular. Let’s just call him Joe 
for the sake of brevity and privacy. 
Joe was a four-year varsity letterman 
in high school. He was in one of 
my elective classes my sophomore 
year that fell in the middle of the 
day, so it was typical for kids to 
eat their lunch in the class. Almost 
everyone did. Joe was usually among 
us, but about a month before the 
start of the wrestling season, he all 
but completely stopped eating — a 
handful of Ritz crackers and a little 
bag of carrots or apple slices, maybe 
a protein bar here and there. He was 
drinking water constantly, but that 
was the extent of it.
The Colorado High School 
Activities Association sets statewide 
guidelines that all those under 
its jurisdiction are expected to 
follow; if not, an athlete risks 
disqualification if the offense 
is serious enough. One major 
rule enforced is that high school 
wrestlers can’t drop more than two 
and a half pounds per week during 
the season. They have this because 
of athletes like Joe — it helps Athletes’ 
Body Image: 
A Weighty 
Issue
ka tie pottsmind  of an  a thlete       
Despite having an up-and-down season, the UCSD men’s water polo team 
found its groove at the perfect time, winning its 18th Western Water Polo 
Association championship and earning a ticket to the NCAA Play-In round. 
But the Tritons did not start as well as they had intended. The then 10th-
ranked Tritons finished the Triton Invitational at an average 2–2, and while 
they dominated the unranked Pomona-Pitzer College and University of 
Redlands, the Tritons were crushed 1–13 by the fifth-ranked University of 
the Pacific and 5–16 by the third-ranked UC Berkeley. In spite of the losses, 
the Tritons were still able to move up in ranking to the ninth spot.
The trend of losing to ranked teams would continue at the UCLA 
Invitational, unfortunately, as the Tritons dropped their match to UCLA, 
losing 6–18, soon after they trounced Claremont-Mudd-Scripps 16–6 
earlier in the day. The Tritons remained in the top 10, moving back to the 
10th spot.
After beating Fresno State on the road, the Tritons traveled to Stanford to 
participate in the NorCal Tournament, where they again found themselves 
leaving with a 2–2 record. But in their last game of the tournament, the 
Tritons won their first game against a ranked opponent, winning 16–15 in 
a close match against the 16th-ranked Air Force.
Just three days later, the Tritons engaged in a tight match against 
unranked Loyola Marymount University. Taking the game to a second 
sudden-death period, the Tritons ended up losing the match 12–13 in what 
was a hard-fought battle against their WWPA rivals.  
The Tritons entered the SoCal tournament with a 7–7 record, hoping 
to finally win back-to-back games of the season. That wish would not be 
granted, however, as they finished the tournament with yet another 2–2 
record, winning against San Jose State and the 16th-ranked Santa Clara 
University, and losing to the sixth-ranked UC Santa Barbara and the 14th-
ranked Air Force. The Tritons dropped to the 15th rank and a 9–9 record 
after the tournament’s conclusion.
With the finale of the SoCal tournament behind them, the Tritons had six more regular-season games, all of them against ranked opponents. With their 
national ranking falling as low as 17th, the Tritons finished off the season 
going 2–4 in their final stretch, pulling off wins in their rematches against Air 
Force and Santa Clara. The Tritons had the opportunity to pull of the upset 
against the number-six-ranked UCSB in the regular season finale but fell in 
overtime 14–16. The Tritons capped off the regular season with an 11–13 
record, good enough for the number-three seed in the WWPA tournament 
and 16th nationally.
The Tritons certainly know how to win when it matters. Facing off  
against Santa Clara for the fourth time this season, UCSD came out on top 
in an 11–9 win, even after being down 6–8 in the third period. UCSD pulled 
out some more winning magic, pulling off a victory once again against Air 
Force and winning 10–8, thanks to a pair of goals by senior utility Chase 
Cockerill in the final period of the game. In the WWPA Championship 
game, the Tritons faced UC Davis, hoping to get their revenge after losing 
7–8 to the 17–7 Aggies earlier in the season. The Tritons got what they 
asked for, squeezing by with a decisive 6–5 victory in a defensive battle 
against the top-seeded opponent, improving the Tritons’ season to 14–13 
and earning a spot in the NCAA Play-In.
Cockerill lead the team in goals and steals this season with 54 and 
47, respectively, while junior driver Nick Alexander led the team with 56 
assists in the season. Redshirt freshman goalie Jack Turner held down the 
fort with 195 saves for the year.
Now the third-seed and 10th-ranked Tritons will face the fourth-seed 
and ninth-ranked Princeton University in hopes to earn a Final Four match 
against number-one seed UCLA. UCSD faced Princeton University earlier 
in the regular season, where senior two-meter Tyler Mancuso scored three 
goals, but eventually fell 12–9. 
The Tritons hope to avenge their loss earlier in the season against the 
Tigers and earn a Final Four spot on Thursday, Dec. 3 at the University of 
Southern California.BY ALEX WU // STAFF WRITER
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE At the Door of  the Final Four
Men’s water polo secures a spot in NCAA Play-In round.
This Friday, Dec. 4, the UCSD 
women’s volleyball team will 
compete against Sonoma State in a 
quarterfinal match at 1 p.m. at the 
University of Alaska Anchorage in 
the NCAA West Regional. 
The overall bracket of the 
women’s volleyball division was 
announced last week, showing 
the positions of the 64 teams that 
secured a berth in the NCAA 
postseason. The women’s volleyball 
squad, on merit of their competitive 
regular-season overall record, has 
been placed as the sixth seed in the 
upcoming NCAA Division-II West Regional. Their opponent, Sonoma 
State, has been ranked as the third 
seed in the division. 
UCSD has emerged into the 
postseason with a 19–11 overall 
record, giving the team the ticket 
to once again represent the pride of 
their school in the NCAA Division-
II tourney. This will be UCSD’s 14th 
time competing in the tourney since 
UCSD joined the women’s volleyball 
Division-II ranks in 2000. In the 
past 16 seasons, UCSD has been able 
to nab a spot in the postseason every 
season except for 2005 and 2014.
Sonoma State was given its third 
seed in the NCAA West Regional 
after an outstanding season, pulling 
through the season with a 26–3 
overall record. Their squad is ranked 18th nationally and will come in 
the tourney soaring on a boastful 
22-match win streak. This will 
also mark Sonoma State’s eighth-
consecutive NCAA appearance. 
Before arriving into the NCAA 
postseason, Sonoma State, the actual 
defending West Region champs, 
won the first annual California 
Collegiate Athletic Association 
Tournament last week, which UCSD 
hosted at RIMAC Arena.
During the regular season, 
the UCSD and Sonoma State 
women’s volleyball squads only 
met and competed against each 
other once. On Oct 3., the teams 
battled strenuously, with the 
match becoming a very lively 
and competitive endeavor which ultimately ended with the Sonoma 
State Seawolves taking a 3–2 victory 
in Rohnert Park. Overall, however, 
the Tritons hold a 26–12 advantage 
when it comes to all-time series. 
The other members of the 
NCAA Division-II West Regional 
bracket who will be making a 
trip to Anchorage include No. 2 
Western Washington, No. 4 Cal 
State San Bernardino, No. 5 Central 
Washington, No. 7 Point Loma 
Nazarene and No. 8 Dixie State. 
The host, University of Alaska 
Anchorage, holds the No. 1 seed. 
Of these teams, UCSD has only 
competed against Cal State San 
Bernardino and Point Loma this W. VOLLEYBALL
Tritons Sneak Into NCAA Division-II West Regionals
No. 6 seed UCSD to play No. 3 seed and CCAA Tournament Champion Sonoma State, this Friday at Anchorage. 
by   g u r k i r a t  s i n g h
See W. VOLLEYBALL , page 11 See BODY IMAGE,  page 11UPCOMING
UCSD
GAMESM. Water Polo
W. Volleyball
W. Basketball
M. Basketball
M. Basketball  12/3
  12/4
  12/4
  12/4
  12/14AT NCAA Play-In
AT NCAA West Regional
VS Cal State Monterey Bay
VS Cal State Monterey Bay
VS Western Oregon
Alex Wu    