VOLUME 48, ISSUE 57  TUESDAY , MAY 26, 2015 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
OVERCOMING 
OBSTACLES
GEN INDIGENOUS SEEKS 
TO EMPOWER NATIVE 
AMERICAN YOUTH THROUGH 
EDUCATIONALOPPORTUNITIES 
THAT HAVE BEEN SORELY 
MISSED. READ ON ABOUT THE 
PROJECT’S BENEFITS.
U.K.   FOLLOWS    U.S.   LEAD
D-II  DISAPPOINTMENTPoliticians   join   celebrities
MIXED   RESUL TS  A T  NCAA  FINALEOPINION,  P age   4
SPORTS,  P age  12
TUESDAY
H 69 L 59WEDNESDAY
H 69 L 57
THURSDAY
H 72 L 59FRIDAY
H 73 L 59
FORECAST
VERBATIM
UNSNAP 
YOUR BRA 
AND TAKE 
IT OFF. THIS 
WILL FEEL 
REBELLIOUS 
AND COOL, 
LIKE YOU’VE BROKEN SOME 
UNSPOKEN LAW. NOW WEAR 
AN UNCOMFORTABLY TIGHT 
TANK TOP THAT MOLDS ITSELF 
TO EVERY DETAIL.... 
HOW-TO-GURU
OPINION , PAGE 4
INSIDE
COMICS  .......................... 2
QUICK TAKES  .................. 4
7 CUPS OF TEA  ............... 6
CROSSWORD  ................ 10
MIND OF AN ATHLETE  ...12“
FEA TURES,  P AGE  7
PHOTO COURTESY OF GENINDIGENOUS.COMCAMPUS
Two UCSD students were killed 
in a head-on collision last Saturday, 
May 16. Madison Cornwell, 23, and 
fellow classmate Anne Baldock, 24, 
were both graduate students attending 
the UCSD School of Medicine. Several 
others were critically injured as well.
The crash occurred early Saturday 
morning at 1:30 a.m., when Jason 
King, 21, was driving the wrong way 
down California 163 and collided with 
the victims’ Toyota Prius near Mission 
Valley. King, a Marine stationed at 
Marine Corps Air Station Miramar, is 
suspected of having been intoxicated 
at the time of the incident.The two graduate students 
were highly regarded among the 
medical school community for their 
humanitarian interests, as well as for 
their contributions to the university, 
according to Carolyn Kelly, associate 
dean of the School of Medicine. 
Baldock, a second-year medical 
student, had recently finished her 
medical science training program and 
was planning to begin laboratory work 
on her thesis in the summer. She had 
planned on becoming a neurosurgeon.
Cornwell, also a second year, 
planned on spending the next year in 
Malawi, focusing on her involvement 
in the Peanut Butter Project, a 
program focusing on research to feed 
malnourished people around the 
world. Cornwell would have conducted humanitarian research focused on 
childhood malnutrition.
Three other students, Jared 
Molitoris, 27, Yuki lizuka, 31, and Stosh 
Ozog, 25, were also in the Prius and 
were hospitalized for serious injuries, 
along with King.
King faces charges of vehicular 
manslaughter and five counts of 
drunk-driving-related injury or death. 
His arraignment on May 20 was held 
bedside at the hospital, during which 
he plead not guilty.
Regardless of King’s conviction, 
the administration at MCAS Miramar 
aims to hold King accountable for 
the incident, as MCAS spokesman 
1st Lt. Gabriel Adibe told the                                Administrators Suspend 
University Art Gallery 
The Division of Arts and Humanities will be 
placing UCSD’s University Art Gallery on hold 
indefinitely beginning July 1. The division’s dean, 
Cristina Della Coletta and Visual Arts Department 
Chair Jordan Crandall made the announcement in a 
joint statement last Wednesday.
Della Colletta, Crandall and Visual Arts Vice-Chair 
Jack Greenstein told the UCSD Guardian that the dean 
established a committee comprised of UCSD faculty to 
determine the future of the UAG.
“The gallery’s future is on hold to the extent that 
there is no programming scheduled for the summer 
or next year, ” the officials said in a joint email. “The 
visual arts department has been discussing the mission 
and operation of the gallery for several years and, with 
resources from the dean, established a committee to 
survey the faculty and come up with a plan. However, 
there was no consensus on how the gallery would be 
run, so the plan was not approved. ”
Though Della Colletta and Crandall have denied 
that the gallery is closed, UAG Assistant Director 
Merete Kjaer, whose position will also terminate July 
1, told the Guardian that she still believes recent events 
point to closure.
“Knowing what we’ve gone through this year of 
trying to secure funding and continue and the action 
of laying everyone off, I don’t really know what you call it other than closing, ” Kjaer said. “I think that it’s just 
rhetoric, choosing one word over another. ”
Greenstein stated that there currently is no funding 
line for the UAG.
The department chair and dean said they could not 
discuss personnel issues when asked about the employ -
ment status of UAG employees.
The closure of the UAG would make UCSD the 
only UC campus without an official art gallery or art 
museum, since all nine UC schools have at least one 
official university art gallery or museum. 
Greenstein stated that the visual arts facul -
ty will hold a series of discussions in the following 
months to determine the gallery’s future. Once the                               
department establishes a plan, it will forward it to the 
dean and Executive Vice Chancellor Suresh Subramani 
for       final approval. 
Second-year graduate student Julia Fernandez told 
the Guardian that eliminating the gallery diminishes 
the value of her degree.
“What worries me is that this is [going to] be a 
larger reflection of how the arts and department are 
viewed on this campus, ” Fernandez said. “This is very              
surprising and embarrassing for the school because 
it’s a   reflection of the degree that we’re getting from a 
school that doesn’t really appreciate the arts. ”
Fernandez first heard about the change in                       B y  TINA BUTOIU   // nEWS EDITOR &  JACKY TO     // EDITORIAL ASSISTANT 
UCSD Medical Students Killed in Car Accident
DUI suspect Jason King collided with the victims’ car while driving against highway traffic.See  UAG , page 3
See  COLLISION  page 3Speaker of  
CA Assembly 
Supports New 
State BudgetCALiFORNIA
Assembly Member Toni Atkins 
endorsed Gov. Brown’s revised  
plan, which reallocates funds 
to the CSU and UC campuses.
B Y  Br ynna Bol t
Senior Staff Writer
See ATKINS , page 3Speaker of the California State 
Assembly Toni Atkins (D-San 
Diego) recently expressed approval 
of Gov. Brown’s May Revision of the 
2015–2016 state budget, specifically 
commending the proposed 
measures to provide additional 
funding to California universities 
while acknowledging the need for        
further action.
The May Revision, which is a 
revision of the budget as it was stated 
in January, provides no additional 
general-use funding beyond the 
$119.5 million that was originally 
granted to the University of California. 
It does, however, allocate $7.6 billion 
from the state budget to repay the 
system’s pension obligations. 
According to Atkins, this action 
will free up funding which would 
otherwise be spent funding the 
retirement of UC employees.
The budget further provides both 
$25 million for deferred general 
maintenance and $25 million for 
energy-efficiency projects, which 
will help UC campuses reduce their 
greenhouse gas emissions.
While general-use funding for UC 
campuses did not increase in the May 
Revision, an additional $38 million 
is being added to the $119.5 million 
already granted to the California State 
University system by the January 
proposal. Still, this figure remains 
$59 million less than was requested 
by university administrators.
Atkins told the UCSD Guardian 
in an interview that she was pleased 
with the increase in funding for both 
the CSU and UC systems.
“The Assembly has always 
wanted more money for the [UC 
and CSU campuses], ” Atkins said. 
“In this provision, the governor has       
granted that. ” 
The May Revision further 
states that increased state funding 
should mean that tuition hikes are 
not necessary for native California 
students. However, a steady increase 
in the cost of out-of-state tuition is 
expected, according to Atkins. 
This raise is occurring largely as 
a result of the UC system’s prices 
becoming more aligned with the 
market, Atkins claimed, as the cost 
of attending a UC campus for out-of-
state students has been significantly 
cheaper than it would be for other 
universities. This difference was 
mainly due to the UC system’s need 
to balance its budget using out-of-
state tuition.
As a result, the number of out-of-
state students on campuses such as 
UCSD and UC Berkeley has reached 
20 percent of total enrollment.
While Atkins acknowledged the 
benefits of the diversity that out-SAN DIEGO
B Y   Josh Lefler
Contributing writeR
Dean of Arts and Humanities Cristina Della Colletta addresses students at the “Round But Square” exhibit opening last Tuesday. 
Photo by Siddharth Atre / UCSD Guardian2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 26, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG N EWS
AVERAGE CAT By Christina Carlson
#OMG 
#LIKE US
#FOLLOW US
@ucsdguar dian
Registration for SPRING Qtr is NOW open!
Register online at 
as.ucsd.edu/saferides
A.S. Safe Rides allows registered undergraduate 
stude nts to get 3 FREE rides per quarter.
Stude nts must register at least 24 hours
prior to their first ride. A.S. Safe Rides 
asucsd asucsdUCSD scientists published a study 
this month that suggested youth dance 
classes were not a sufficient source 
of physical activity for children and 
adolescents according to federal health 
standards.
The study involved measuring the 
physical activity of 264 students during 
66 different dance classes. Physical 
activity was measured by attaching 
accelerometers that measured the 
intensity of movements done by the 
students. Researchers found that, on 
average, there were only about 17.2 minutes of physical activity in the 
classes, which is a little over half of the 
30 minutes that the Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention suggests 
for after-school physical activities to 
maintain a healthy lifestyle.
Senior author James Sallis, a 
UCSD professor in the department 
of family medicine and public health, 
told the UCSD News Center that few 
adolescents actually meet the CDC 
requirements.
“Overall, physical activity in youth 
dance classes was low, ” Sallis said. “The 
study showed 8 percent of children 
and 6 percent of adolescents met the 
CDC’s 30-minute recommendation for after-school physical activity during 
d a n c e .”
The researchers conducted the 
study because they were concerned 
about the rising rates of childhood 
obesity. Because they observed that 
dance is a popular form of activity in 
younger children, the scientists wanted 
to gauge how much of an effect it has 
on health. Most adolescents in the 
United States do not meet the standard 
physical activity guidelines that are set 
by the U.S. Department of Health and 
Human Services. In 10 internationally 
conducted studies, American youth 
were found to be the least active.
Sallis discussed the possible steps that parents can take to ensure that 
their children get the proper amount 
of exercise. 
“We would like them to actually 
check out the quality and activity in 
the program before signing them up, ” 
Sallis said. “That’s something that I 
think is somewhat realistic for parents 
to do immediately. ”
The team of researchers believes 
that these results may help parents 
become more aware and more vigilant 
when it comes to making sure their 
children are physically fit.SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
Less than 10 percent of American children and adolescents meet the recommended levels of after-school exercise.
B Y  Raahima Shoaib
Contributing WriterStudy Reports Limited Physical Activity in Youth Dance Classes
RaahimaShoaib  rshoaib@ucsd.edu readers can contact
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGsee more atThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and 
Thursdays during the academic year by UCSD students 
and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this 
newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, 
without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2015, all 
rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible 
for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The 
views expressed herein do not necessarily represent 
the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of 
California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is 
funded by advertising. That’s sexual harassment.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.orgBusiness Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Editor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
  
Associate News Editor
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Social Media Coordinator
Training and Development
Page Layout
Allison Kubo
Distribution
Christopher Graves, Josef Goodyear, Vincent Pham
Copy Readers
Andrew Chao, Caroline Lee, Sage Schubert Christian, Marissa 
Barber, Heejung Lim
Editorial Assistants
Shelby Newallis, Karly Nisson, Mario Attie, Katie Potts,
 Allison Kubo, Jacky To  Aleksandra Konstantinovic
Andrew E. Huang  
Taylor Sanderson
Tina Butoiu
Kriti Sarin
Cassia Pollock
Marcus Thuillier
Teiko Yakobson
Jacqueline Kim
Kyle Somers
Nilu Karimi
Siddharth Atre
Jonathan Gao
Joselynn Ordaz
Sherman Aline
Elyse Yang
Annie Liu
Rosina Garcia
Jennifer Grundman
Laura Chow
Vincent PhamDIGITAL MONKEYS By Jeff Lau
N EWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 26, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
UCSD Guardian.
“We take incidents of this nature 
very seriously. [King’s] actions are not 
in keeping with the good order and 
discipline demanded of a U.S. Marine, ” 
Adibe stated. “He will be appropriately 
held accountable for his actions. ” 
Alcohol abuse has been a persistent 
problem in the military, with 47 
percent of service members taking 
part in binge drinking, eclipsing civilian rates. Adibe explained that the 
Marine Corps acknowledges this issue 
and currently offers many programs 
designed to prevent substance abuse 
among active service members.
“Our leadership implements 
several initiatives to educate Marines 
in an effort to prevent drinking and 
driving, ” Adibe said. “Some of these 
initiatives include designated driver 
programs, safety stand downs, quality 
leadership discussions and safety briefs 
and substance abuse programs. ”Close family and friends held a 
private memorial for Cornwell and 
Baldock on the same day of King’s 
arraignment. The organizers 
broadcasted the ceremony to those 
who wished to pay their respects. Over 
700 students and faculty listened in 
to the broadcast, according to Kelly, 
who cited this as proof of the School 
of Medicine’s sense of closeness and 
community.Victims’ Families Broadcasted Memorial Service to More Than 700
▶ COLLISION,  from page 1
status of the UAG when Crandall sent 
out an email stating that the annual 
UCSD Masters of Fine Arts Graduate 
Exhibition is closing a week early. The 
exhibition displays art from graduat -
ing artists and is curated by graduate 
students, including Fernandez.
However, visual arts professor 
and Academic Senate representative 
Brett Stalbaum told the Guardian he 
believes an agreement can be reached. 
“I’m super pleased that our stu -
dents have been making their voices 
heard on the matter because it dem -
onstrates that these exhibition experi -
ences are an important aspect of our 
educational mission, ” Stalbaum said. “I believe that, as faculty, we can work out 
a model that allows the UAG to better 
serve many different constituencies, in 
such a way that creates a clear path for 
UAG to continue. ”
Revelle College junior and art his -
tory major Audrey Maier discussed 
how the UAG hold demonstrates the 
changing nature of education in the 
arts.
“The basis of the issue is that arts, 
by itself, isn’t seen as ‘relevant’ because 
it’s not seen as a great way to make 
money and it’s not a hard scientific dis -
covery, ” Maier said. “It feels almost like 
eliminating the discipline in its purity 
and [saying], if you do arts, you have to 
infuse science or a relevant discipline. ”
Maier, who curated the “Round But Square” exhibition with Earl Warren 
College senior and art studio major 
Elizabeth Stringer, explained that 
although there are other galleries on 
campus, the UAG space allows artists 
to showcase in a more professional 
setting.
“Undergraduate students usually 
can’t exhibit [their artwork], but we 
do show it during our Undergraduate 
Art Show; the MFA students have their 
show their as well as the faculty, ” Maier 
said. “Unlike the other galleries on 
campus, the Gallery has a lot of infra -
structure for experimentation, making 
it into a very professional gallery. ”Josh Lefler  jlefler@ucsd.edu readers can contact
Final Graduate Student Exhibit to End One Week Ahead of  Schedule
Atkins: UC System Should Focus on Enrolling California Residents▶ UAG,  from page 1
of-state students bring to campuses, 
she argued that it is time for the 
UC system to begin prioritizing 
Californian students again.
“We don’t want to put the UC 
[system] in the position where 
they can’t accept out-of-state and 
out-of-country students, but these 
admission[s] are at an all-time high, ” 
Atkins said.
Furthermore, this increase will provide overall $45 million in 
additional funding for the UC system. 
Atkins and the Assembly also 
continue to push for transparency 
within the UC budget, claiming that 
it has helped the state realize issues 
that it was not aware of before.  
Moving forward, the state Budget 
Committee and its six subcommittees 
will meet to negotiate the final details 
of the budget between the Senate and 
the governor. 
Atkins encouraged students to continue a dialogue with the 
legislature about their concerns. In 
particular, Atkins told the Guardian 
that she hopes to receive student 
support for provisions such as the 
Middle Class Scholarship and other 
various aspects of financial aid, 
including those focused on providing 
books and affordable transportation 
for students.▶ ATKINS,  from page 1News St aff   news@ucsdguardian..org readers can contact
Br ynna Bol t  bbolt@ucsd.edu readers can contactLIGHTS & SIRENSLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edu.
Friday, May 8
1:32 p.m.: Citizen Contact
Report of a female impersonating 
a doctor and claiming to work for 
UCSD on social media.  Report 
taken.
7:03 p.m.: Medical Aid
A San Diego Metropolitan Transit 
System bus driver was in a 
bathroom with stomach problems 
and also had trouble breathing. 
Transported to hospital.
8:24 p.m.: Medical Aid
A young adult female suffered an 
allergic reaction in the Thurgood 
Marshall College residence halls. 
Transported to hospital.
Saturday, May 9
1:13 a.m.: Alcohol Contact
A Residential Security Officer 
requested officer assistance with an 
intoxicated male acting aggressively 
in the Muir College apartments. 
Closed by adult arrest.
10:33 a.m.: Citizen Contact
A male subject was using chalk to 
write negative messages about the 
university in front of the Chicano 
Legacy mural and refused to stop 
when asked. Gone on Arrival.
3:38 p.m.: Petty Theft
Report of male trying to cut a 
bike lock near the Revelle College 
apartments.  Checks OK.
Sunday, May 10
12:02 p.m.: Assist Other Agency
Lifeguards requested a unit for an 
uncooperative subject stuck in the 
sand at the Blacks Beach gate. Field 
interview.Monday, May 11
12:22 a.m.: Citizen Contact
Subjects were throwing items over 
the balcony of Harlan Hall’s second 
floor study lounge. RSO report 
taken.
4:21 a.m.: Noise Disturbance
RSOs responded to a party 
complaint in the Sixth College 
apartments and found an 
intoxicated young female passed 
out. Transported to hospital.
Tuesday, May 12
9 p.m.: Grand Theft
Report of unattended laptop and 
iPad stolen from Glider Lounge, 
with a loss of $1,700. Report taken.
Wednesday, May 13
3:57 p.m.: Public Intoxication
A male transient was sitting at a 
Nobel Drive bus stop with pants 
down. Transported to detox.
3:56 p.m.: Medical Aid
A man had a seizure in Y ork Hall. 
Transported to hospital.
Thursday, May 14
4:15 p.m.: Stolen Vehicle
Male suspect found driving stolen 
UC golf cart and ran from the 
police officer. Closed by adult 
arrest.
4:25 p.m.: Collision
Female bicyclist slid while braking 
due to rain, causing her to fall and 
suffer facial injuries. Transported to 
hospital.
— ANDREW E. HUANG
Managing Editor4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 26, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CASSIA POLLOCK
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
What better way is there 
to make a difference in 
the world than to go bra -
less? It’s as easy as taking off a bra. 
Of course, there are other concerns 
distracting us from these intimate 
matters: the state has no water, UC 
Regents are running out of money 
and those motorcycle gangs are 
going crazy in Texas. But ultimately, 
none of those issues are as relevant 
to our lives as going braless. Luckily, 
we can make a physically sustainable, 
significant change in society. That is 
why we’ve created this handy guide 
for you to go braless.
Step 1: Unsnap your bra and 
take it off. This will feel rebellious 
and cool, like you’ve broken some 
unspoken law. Now wear an uncom -
fortably tight tank top that molds 
itself to every detail of your breast 
tissue. Make sure to wear plain 
jeans and converse, as it would be a 
shame to draw attention away from 
the outfit’s statement. Then leave 
your apartment quickly, forgetting 
to bring a cardigan. Remember: this 
movement is not about comfort, or 
freeing women to choose whether or 
not they want to wear a bra today. It’s 
about making sure your girls are out 
there for everyone to see what you’re 
doing. While you and your protrud -
ing nipples are shivering, take pride 
in the fact you are getting your    
point across. 
Step 2: Tell everybody! Share 
your newfound freedom with the 
rest of the world. While you stand in 
line for the Nobel/Arriba, hug your 
friends and let them know you’re a 
liberated woman. When pressed for 
details, tell them it’s actually very 
personal and you’re not comfort -
able discussing this out loud. After 
the shuttle arrives, pleadingly let the 
driver know that you need to have 
a seat because standing by the poles 
could be dangerous today. If there 
are too many quick turns on the 
road, you might give somebody a 
black eye.
Step 3: Judge other women for 
not being radical enough to free their 
nipples like you did. Troll the inter -
net, starting arguments on Facebook, 
Twitter, and Yikyak to protest all 
the women who aren’t as brave as 
you are. When a lady chooses not 
to wear a bra this is a life-altering 
decision and a basic birthright that 
every woman should have. But if 
they aren’t picking the right choice, 
they might need an insightful lecture 
about what a bunch of conserva -
tive prudes they are. This should set 
them straight. After all, taking off a 
bra is so easy that there’s really no 
excuse not to.
Don’t worry gentlemen — we 
haven’t forgotten you. Men can also 
benefit from this guide by carefully 
sharing the aforementioned tips with 
all of their female friends. It’s also 
helpful if the next time they see a 
woman without a bra, they put an 
arm around her shoulders, lean in 
closely, make deep penetrating eye 
contact and then firmly say, “I sup -
port you. ” If this results in a slap 
across the face, don’t take it person -
ally. With these guidelines, men and 
women can make a valuable contri -
bution to society. Remember, every 
bra (or lack thereof) is like a vote. 
Let’s all vote for gender equality and 
transform the world.Liberate 
Yourself,
Go Braless
ILLUSTRATION BY ELYSE YANGOn May 7, there was a general election in the United 
Kingdom. The people of England (my home country), 
Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland cast their votes in 
what was billed by many commentators as the most important 
election in decades. Against all predictions of another coalition 
government, the Conservative party won a slim majority of seats 
in Parliament, and David Cameron will remain as prime minister 
for another five years. Aside from that regrettable swing to the 
right, the more alarming trend has been our electoral cycle and 
process edge moving towards the blinding cult of celebrities that 
plagues American elections, turning the focus away from real 
policy and towards simplistic placation of the populace.
In a U.K. general election, one does not vote for the prime 
minister directly. Instead, citizens vote for the Member of 
Parliament who will represent the area, or ‘constituency, ’ around 
their living space. There are 650 constituencies in the U.K.; 
therefore, 650 MPs must be elected every five years. Each MP 
represents a party (or, somewhat uncommonly, they may remain 
independent), and the party that is represented by the most MPs 
after the election is the ruling party. What this should mean is that 
the MP representing the constituency in which you live is a man 
or woman well-known to you and all of the community, whose 
work you can judge individually. A vote should be cast in favour of 
a person who would best represent one’s home in Parliament and not 
be 
entirely 
dictated by 
affiliations with a 
particular party and 
its leader. 
That has always been the process de jure. Today’s practices 
do not often work that way, however. It is inevitable that the 
household names in politics will be the most visible individuals, 
especially in the age of mass media. However, unless you happen 
to live in a constituency that is represented by one of a few high-
profile party leaders (since even the incumbent prime minister 
must be re-elected as an MP in a general election if he or she is 
to remain in power), there is no chance that any of those who 
participated in the televised electoral debates will appear on 
your ballot paper. Those candidates who are actually running for 
Parliament in one’s constituency should be the focus of attention. 
This may sound idealistic and perhaps it is, but it’s also notable 
that the shift towards more party leader-based elections have been 
a consciously new development. 
Until recently, the date of a U.K. election would not be fixed 
See POLITICS, page 55Uncle Sam’s Lead
Election seasons and political initiatives in the U.K. 
follow in the footsteps of  the U.S., as demonstrated by the 
sensationalism of  members of  arliament in the media.How-toGuru
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
The Millennials are coming of age, and with them comes the rise of 
secularism in America. A study by the Pew Research Center states that 
“22.8 percent of Americans identified with no organized religion, which 
produced a dramatic rise from 16.1 percent in 2007. ” That represents a 
huge increase, and we can definitely recognize that here in California, 
since “28 percent of the population in the West [is unaffiliated], more 
numerous than Catholics (23 percent), evangelicals (22 percent) and 
every other religious group. ” Education and our contact with science and 
technology are the first responsible factors for this dramatic increase of 
individuals lacking religious affiliations. 
The report continues by saying that “the percentage of college 
graduates who identify with Christianity has declined by 9 percentage 
points since 2007 (from 73 percent to 64 percent). ” There is an overall 
decrease in Christians, with “the share of the public identifying with 
religions other than Christianity has grown from 4.7 percent in 2007 to 
5.9 percent in 2014. ”
Allen Downey, a computer scientist at the Olin College of 
Engineering in Massachusetts, recently reported that the decrease in 
religious affiliation is correlated to an increased use of the Internet and 
various forms of new technology. The accelerated drop in religious 
affiliation since the 1980s is explained by three factors based on Downey’s 
research: “the drop in religious upbringing, the increase in college-level 
education and the increase in Internet use. ”
Internet is slowly replacing religion in many aspects of our social life. 
Wikipedia and Google are just one click away to answer any question 
people previously asked their pastor. An article on the blog Chron states 
that “non-believers find solidarity on blogs and message boards. Afraid 
to “come out [as an] atheist” to friends and family, they can connect to 
other non-religious folk online, on sites like Atheist Revolution, The 
Atheist Blogger and the Friendly Atheist — where they’re free to critique 
religious news and politics. ” All in all, the use of faster technologies and 
the Internet have caused a drop in the religious affiliation rate. As more 
people gain access to smartphones and the web, secularism in the U.S. is 
destined to grow, finally leading the U.S. to follow the trend of developed 
countries of Western civilizations.
—  MARCUS THUILLIER
Senior Staff WriterWidespread Internet Access May Hold Significant 
Correlation T o Increase in Secularism Around the U.S.
QUICK TAKESRECENT STUDIES HAVE SHOWN THAT SECULARISM IS ON THE RISE THROUGHOUT AMERICA DUE TO A VARIETY OF 
FACTORS, WHILE PARTICIPATION IN CHURCH AND RELIGION HAVE EXPERIENCED A NOTICEABLE DECLINE IN POPULARITY.
Although American society has become less religious in the past 
decade, that doesn’t automatically equate to a decline in spirituality. 
While younger generations turn away from institutional religion, 
they continue to pray and participate in spiritual activities. The study 
“Religion in the Millennial Generation, ” which drew from research by the 
Pew Religious Landscape Center, found that younger adults may be less 
connected to church but remain as spiritual as past generations. Forty-
one percent of Millennials claim to pray on a daily basis, similarly to 42 
percent of Generation X-ers. The shift towards spirituality represents 
an important movement to combat the influence of powerful religious 
institutions such as churches.
Spirituality represents the private sector of belief systems, while 
churches and religion tend to epitomize the public sector. A shift away 
from the public sector is evident in the lifestyle choices of Millennials 
as many use the Internet to connect with potential partners instead of 
churches. The term “Spiritual But Not Religious” is a popular personality 
quiz answer on various dating sites. Simple hobbies such as yoga, 
meditation and connecting with loved ones and friends can also be a way 
of fostering personal beliefs.
According to the Centre for Research on Globalization, Peres asked 
the pope if he would found a “U.N. of Religions, ” which would be a global 
organization with elite religious authority, that would unite everyone 
under a single faith. This institution would be part of a worldwide effort 
to combat terrorism. As this would either result in the dissemination of 
religious and spiritual diversity across the globe, or another World War 
III, it’s probably for the best that the pope politely declined.
Most threats to freedom of religion haven’t proved substantial enough 
to cause real intimidation. It is clear that in the U.S. United States, 
many citizens have created fresh mindsets and new lifestyles through 
cherishing this freedom. The rise of spirituality over religion is a sign 
that individualism continues to gain prevalence in the U.S. United 
States. More and more young adults are empowering their lives with an 
independently spiritual mindset. This allows them to make their own 
choices and think for themselves, rather than following the traditional 
demands of the church.
—  CASSIA POLLOCK
Opinion EditorWhile Younger Generations Are Shifting Away from 
Religion, They Are Not Neccessarily Less SpiritualB Y Sam Thoburn   staff writerOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 26, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
SAFE
DRIVERS
NEEDED
(858)822-5098Get the perfect part-time job:
• $13.35/hour 
• On campus • Flexible schedule• Paid training • UCSD students only• Hiring now for summer training
 Details at shuttledrivers.ucsd.edu
WEEK 9 SALE
*EXCLUDES FLUFFY & OUTERWEAR
SHOP ONLINE AT to.ucsd.edu
PRICE CENTER PLAZA • MON-FRI • 10am-3pm25% OFF SUN GOD FOR A CAUSE TANKS
WORLD FRONT VIEW By David Juarez
Media Sensationalism Ruins the Authentic Ideologies of  U.K. Politics
until four weeks prior to that date.
The date of this election, by contrast, 
was announced six months in 
advance. This allowed fully-realised 
prime ministerial campaigns to 
be organised and implemented 
nationwide — debates were be shown 
on television, innumerable pundits 
arbitrated on the electoral chances 
of each party (and its leader) and 
the results of dozens of opinion polls 
were run as speculative newspaper 
headlines. But none of this is real 
politics. True, it may engage a greater 
swath of the population with politics 
and encourage a larger turnout 
on Election Day, but at the cost 
of any hope of precision or deep 
understanding.
The nature of televised debates 
encourages generalisation, since campaign strategists seem to believe 
that the most effective way to engage 
the working classes are to approach 
them in a condescending manner. 
Debates on television also give a 
very wide audience to the execrable 
notion of the ‘campaign promise. ’ 
It is difficult to understand why 
anybody is surprised anymore 
when a prime minister or a 
president does not follow through 
with their promises; they are never 
realistic in the first place. They are 
only made to win elections.
The presidential election cycle 
for 2016 has already begun, only 
halfway through Obama’s second 
term. This only serves to heighten 
the feeling that no president really 
has the opportunity to enact his 
or her own ideologies before the 
election cycle and the concomitant 
mud-flinging begins again in earnest. The United Kingdom’s cycle 
is not yet even close to the American 
version, but in time, the big money, 
the attack ads, the corporate 
involvement and everything else will 
surely be adopted as well. 
In 2010, in the U.K. general 
election, according to the Electoral 
Commission report, £31.5 million 
(around $50 million) was spent on 
all campaigns in total. In the 2012, 
U.S. presidential election, that figure 
was closer to $6 billion. Almost 
all of this money goes towards 
fanfare, not substance. We Britons 
are nowhere close to the American 
level yet, and there is still hope that 
we will never get there. One can 
only hope that some measure of 
intelligence will prevail.▶ POLITICS,  from page 4
LETTER  TO  THE  EDITOR
Why is the student community 
indifferent to the fate of the spaces in 
the Original Student Center? These 
spaces hold historical significance for 
UCSD. Groundwork Books began 
as a book cart in the 1970s, selling 
works on political theory, history 
and other educational topics. The 
Food Co-op has been around since 
1978, providing environmentally and 
ethically conscious items. The Che 
Cafe was established in 1980 as an 
eatery, show venue and as a place for 
alternative education. The General 
Store Co-op opened in 1980 as a 
student-run market, and after the 
opening of Price Center in 1989, it 
became the cost-effective alternative 
for all student needs. And, though the 
Crafts Center was not a student-run 
space, it was used by many students, 
members of the community and  students of other universities (where a 
place like it was missing). The Crafts 
Center had been around for 40 years 
before the administration abruptly 
shut it down in the fall of 2012 “for 
renovations” — but now it has been 
abandoned and left to rot. Will the 
Food Co-op, the General Store Co-op, 
the Groundwork Books Collective and 
the C.H.E. Cafe Collective experience 
the same fate? I hope not, because 
without these spaces, UCSD has 
nothing (academics aside) to set it 
apart from other campuses. UCSD 
is the only University of California 
campus with numerous, diverse 
on-site, student-run co-ops. Is this not 
something to be proud of? It seems 
neither the administration nor the 
students consider it to be. This June, 
Porter’s Pub will be kicked out, as 
the administration refused to renew 
its lease, citing low revenue, lack of 
adherence to campus policy and 
overall student dissatisfaction as the 
cause (who did they poll? Obviously not the Pub’s regular customers, who 
are undergraduate and graduate 
students alike, faculty and staff). 
It seems that the administration is 
attempting to slowly convert the 
Old Student Center into a mini-
Price Center. The student body 
needs to band together to stop the 
administration from shutting down 
every space of alternative culture 
on campus. The problem is that 
the minority no longer has a say. 
These spaces were established as a 
means to give the minority a place 
on campus. If UCSD is attempting to 
eradicate diversity on its campus, it is 
doing a fantastic job! And, with the 
indifference of the student body, now 
is certainly the perfect time. Let’s set 
aside our differences for a moment 
and support diversity on campus. The 
minority can no longer get by alone.
                            - Karemy Valdez 
Muir College, seniorStudent-Run Spaces 
Keep Disappearing
GOT ISSUES?
BE HEARD
BY YOUR PEERS!SEND YOUR LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUA RDIAN.ORGreaders can contact
Sam thoburn  sthoburn@ucsd.edu6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 26, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
TEIKO Y AKOBSON
features@ucsdguardian.org
Beating Finals Week Blues
Finals Week can be a difficult time for everyone. Students seem to have tried everything to cope with the 
demands that come along with the end of the quarter, with campus organizations providing everything from 
free snacks to puppies to try to make students feel more at ease. But as the pressure ramps up from one quar -
ter to the next, it might be time to embrace the latest wave of therapeutic remedy: online counseling.
Enter 7 Cups of Tea, a new website that connects students to active listeners. The website and app allow students, 
or anyone looking for someone to lend an ear, the chance to connect anonymously to a wide network of trained 
listeners and could potentially be just the cure that students are looking for to curb their Finals Week stress.
Founded by psychologist Glen Moriarty, 7 Cups of Tea is run by a team of trained professionals dedicated to 
spreading knowledge to an audience who was previously unreachable. 
Here’s how it works: Moriarty and his staff have devised a training program aimed to teach anyone who wants 
to fill their free time by helping others to be an “active, compassionate listener” without having to leave their 
homes. The program takes those interested through a course that instructs how to help with a variety of different 
issues, ranging from relationship problems to ordinary, everyday stress. Those who complete the course move on 
to practice sessions and interviews with qualified staff members. Even after this is all done, interested listeners can 
complete further training in areas that they are specifically passionate about. The training program appears to be a 
success, now boasting over 70,000 listeners in 130 different languages.
While having such a large quantity of staff members can make the site appealing, users also must be wary that, chances 
are, they aren’t talking to professionals. While the training program is comprehensive, it doesn’t provide the same level of 
depth that proper schooling does and can’t replace the experience of a real psychologist. Still, having someone to talk to 
can be a very useful stress outlet. 
Jillian Ellis, a public relations spokeswoman for 7 Cups, says that employing younger, more inexperienced college 
students to be listeners can actually be seen as a positive. Having students talk to people who can relate to exactly 
what they’re going through gives them a safe place to vent their feelings.
“7 Cups [is] a safe space where students can vent or share what is on their mind and be listened to by another non-
judgmental, caring and compassionate college student, ” Ellis told the UCSD Guardian. “The opportunity to become 
an active listener has also empowered students to know that they can give back and make a difference in the world. ”
Moriarty says he started the company because he noticed that there was a niche that needed to be filled. 
“My wife’s a therapist, and I was doing this research and talking about an entrepreneurial problem and talking to 
her about it and I felt better, ” he said in an interview with TheVenture.com. “ And I thought, what do people do who 
don’t have a therapist in their family? It struck me — this is the offline behavior that hasn’t yet been online that we 
should put online. Listening, as a service, should be available for people. ”
The site appears to be growing exponentially, as more and more students on campuses across the country and 
world are discovering that the power of online communication can be put to good use. For students who have a par -
ticularly daunting slate of exams coming up, or just need someone to talk to for any other reason, 7cupsoftea.com 
could be just what the doctor ordered. As the site says: “Our listeners just listen. They understand. They give you the 
space you need to help you clear your head. ”
READERS CAN CONTACT Sam Shapiro sjshapiro@ucsd.eduby Sam Shapiro // Staff Writer   
Illustration by Elyse Yang // Art EditorFEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 26, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
When President Obama visited the Standing Rock Sioux 
Tribe, a young tribesman told the president that he was 
raising his four younger brothers by himself. All of them 
knew at least one person they loved who had attempted or committed 
suicide, or who had sought shelter in a bus at one point in their life 
due to poverty
During June of last year, President Obama became the fourth presi -
dent ever to step into a Native American reservation with the goals of 
strengthening the relationship between the United States government 
and the tribes, and eliminating the numerous obstacles facing Native 
American youth. The president and the first lady visited the Stand -
ing Rock Sioux Tribe in North Dakota not only to attend the annual 
Cannonball Flag Day powwow, but also to talk to a group of young 
adults without the involvement of their parents or of the press so that 
everyone could freely speak their minds.
After his heart-to-heart talk with the tribe’s youth, the president re -
turned to the White House and gave his staff — everyone involved with 
the education, opportunity and job training of the youth — the task of 
uncovering more opportunities for them. Consequently, at the White 
House Tribal Nations Conference held last Dec. 3, he spoke about the 
issues which native tribes all over America face and announced the 
Generation Indigenous Challenge. The Gen-I Challenge focuses on 
bettering the lives of Native American youth and presenting them with 
more opportunities to succeed.
“Nothing gets me angrier than when I get a sense that our young 
people, early in life, are already feeling like opportunities are foreclosed 
to them — because that’s not [what America is], ” President Obama said 
at the conference. “We have to invest in [those young Native Americans] 
and believe in them and love them. And if we do, there’s no question of 
the great things they can achieve. ”
Eleanor Roosevelt 
College junior Teressa 
Baldwin is an Inupiaq 
Eskimo, a tribe with 
its history based in the 
Arctic Circle. Baldwin 
was one of the few 
youth ambassadors 
to attend the Tribal 
Nations Conference 
and discuss the prob -
lems they faced with 
other young adults and     
cooperatives that 
were present.
“I feel very hon -
ored to be chosen to 
attend the [Gen-I] 
launch. I was able 
to talk to potential 
contributors and do a hearing on the hill, ” Baldwin said. “I also ran a 
mini-breakout session on mental health and social services. I really 
found passion in the mental health field through this experience. ”
The Gen-I Native Y outh Challenge asks the youth of a tribe to 
actively work with other youth to do something positive in their com -
munity, document the effort and send it to the National Native Y outh 
Network to have a chance of being invited to the first-ever White House 
Y outh Tribal Gathering this summer. Having grown up in a society that 
is 90-percent indigenous, Baldwin feels that the president’s initiative and 
challenge successfully gives bright prospects to the youth.“I honestly came to college with a mindset that I wouldn’t finish. By 
the time I entered my freshman year of high school, I had lost many 
friends and family to suicide, ” Baldwin said. “Women in my commu -
nity have a higher chance of being sexually assaulted. It is sad to see, 
but President Obama’s 
initiative gives hope to 
a lot of communities 
by recognizing resilient 
young natives. ”
 The Gen-I initiative 
also includes numer -
ous new programs that 
would give native youth 
as many opportunities 
as their non-indigenous 
peers. The Native Y outh 
Community Projects 
will provide funding for 
proposals that aim to 
help youth get ready for 
college and careers, while the National Tribal Y outh Network will sup -
port the development of leadership skills and provide peer support.
Based on personal experience, Baldwin described the grim condi -
tions of living in a native society and why inhabitants are often limited in 
their opportunities.
“Entering a native community is almost like going back in time. I 
can only say this because I did grow up in a native community, ” Baldwin 
said. “We have high suicide rates, sexual-abuse [rates] and drug-abuse 
rates. Native youth have lived through alarming rates of alcoholism in 
their families and still find resilience to continue their education. ”
Based on some staggering statistics from Native American commu -
nities, the White House released a Native Y outh Report that investi -
gated the challenges youth face and offered improvements to these 
problems. This data is part of the aftereffects that historical trauma felt 
by previous native generations has left on the current generation.
“It is completely true when we say that we live in two worlds: our 
traditional way of life that our ancestors have passed down to us, and 
the world we were born into. And, unfortunately, this world that we 
were born into has generations of historical trauma, ” Baldwin said. 
“First Lady Michelle Obama came and spoke at the [Gen-I] launch 
and touched base on historical trauma. Her speech gave me the shivers 
a few times. She was so eloquent but touched base on a lot of things 
Indian youth face. ”
Despite growing up in these harsh conditions, Baldwin’s past in -
spires her to work even harder to represent her people and indigenous 
women in college.
“I am the outcome of growing up in a native community, ” Baldwin 
said. “[Growing up in a native community] is buying a gallon of milk 
for over $8 and not getting enough produce during the dead winter, yet 
it is also finding self-identity through cultural traditions. The project 
really entails who I am as a person. It gives hope to many. ”
Just last month, the U.S. Department of Education announced its 
$3 million grant contribution toward the education and career futures 
of indigenous youth as part of the Native Y outh Community Projects. 
As the U.S. government is progressing toward bettering the welfare of 
the native population, Baldwin is also excited to be a part of the change, 
starting with her attendance at the Y outh Tribal Gathering; the White 
House will host its first Gathering in the summer to rally political lead -
ers and organizations with native youth, such as Baldwin, in order to 
spread awareness and secure a better future for her people.overcoming   obst aclesby Soo Yun Park // Staff Writer   
Photos courtesy of genindigenous.com
Generations of poverty, coupled with high rates of suicide, have left lasting trauma on reservation communities. Na -
tive American Youth Ambassador Teressa Baldwin talks about her part in the Generation Indigenous Challenge. 
READERS CAN CONTACT Soo Yun Park syp008@ucsd.edu
ADDITIONAL REPORTING ON PAGE 8 
8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 26, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEA TURES
STATISTICS AFFECTING NATIVE AMERICAN YOUTH
5x Alcoholism mortality rate compared to national averages.
2x  National suicide rates compared to national averages.
*Native teens experience the highest rate of suicide of any popula -
tion group in the United State s.32.4%   
Poverty rate for AI/AN Youth.Average AI/AN household income: $33,300  
National average:  $46,200   
*According to the 2000 Census, Indians living in Indian Country 
have incomes less than half the national average.
49.3%  
Graduation rate for AI/AN students.
76.2% 
Graduation rate for white students.AI/AN
National Average
30.6%  Reported binge 
alcohol use over the past month 
among AI/AN adults. 
24.5% Reported national 
rate of bingle alcohol use. 13.3%  
AI/ANs have undergraduate degrees
24.4% 
of the general population have undergraduate degrees. 
Infographic by Allison Kubo
Statistics from Aspen Institute Center for Native American Youth 23.6%  
Poverty rate among AI/ANs4.5 million people identify as Native American.
                              1.9  million are under the age of 18. CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 26, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
BLACKBIRD BLACKBIRDFRI, MAY 29  8pmTahrirCAMPUS
CALENDAR
MAY 26 - MAY 312015 POWERED BY THE CHANCELLOR’S OFFICE AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guar dian
Calendar
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar @
ucsdgu ardian .orgTUE5.26 THU5.28 WED5.27
1pm
DE-STRESS POWER HOUR: R&R SQUAD + 
BIOFEEDBACK - THE ZONE
Come measure your stress levels and learn methods 
on how to manage your stress by the CAPS Wellness Peer Educators during De-Stress with Biofeedback from 1-2 PM. After, get a massage from the R&R Squad 
from 2-3 PM!
2:30pm
MEET UPS: CAREER CONVERSATIONS - LGBT 
RESOURCE CENTER
Come by for an informal and fun career chat with a 
career advisor! These meet-ups will occur throughout 
Spring quarter at varying times and locations, to 
accommodate any schedule.
7pm
OUTREACH TRIVIA NIGHTS - HOME PLATE CAFE
Join us for an evening of food, facts, friends and fun! Come to Home Plate Cafe to meet new people and test 
your knowledge of various trivia categories. Entry is 
free to all UCSD students and prizes will be awarded 
for the winning team! Make this a weekly event and turn up the competition as you enjoy happy hour prices on food and drinks.All students are welcome! Come as a team, or by yourself!11am
MEXICAN SPORT MIGRANTS NAVIGATING THE 
U.S. IMMIGRATION REGIME - PC, BEAR ROOM
Dr. Jose Alamillo (Chican@ Studies Program CSU-CI) 
will discuss transnational migrant athletes from Mexico, who sought temporary admittance into the United States to participate in the sport of boxing. 
Please consider joining us for a lecture by Dr. José 
Alamillo (CSU-Channel Islands) on the relationship 
between U.S. immigration law, sports industry and 
the construction of race and nationality in the experiences of Latino migrant athletes.
1pm
DE-STRESS ART EVENT - LAWN AT I-HOUSE
Stressed out before finals? Need a study break? 
Come to the i-House Lawn (next to the basketball 
courts) to learn how to create Chinese-style 
paintings and Japanese origami. Let your mind relax 
and the creativity take over! This self-care event will help you de-stress before your big exams!
3:30pm
VISITING ARTIST LECTURE: ANNA HUEMMER - 
SME 149
Trition Art and the Department of Visual Arts are 
pleased to announce a public lecture by San Diego artist Anna Huemmer. She received her MFA in Sculpture from The Rhode Island School of Design 
after studying Fine Arts at the University of California 
Santa Cruz.
6:30pm
FROM NAPKIN SKETCH TO SUCCESSFUL 
KICKSTARTER - MANDEVILLE AUDITORIUM, ROOM B202
Join The Basement for our Evening with Experts 
Speakers Series featuring Babak Forutanpour! Mr. 
Forutanpour will share his motivation for creating 
the world's best ball, and how he took the idea through several rounds of prototyping, to finding a manufacturing partner over seas, to launching a successful Kickstarter, to having AryaBall picked by the Today Show as the Hot New Toy for 2014, to 
landing a deal with Daymond John of ABC's hit TV 
show Shark Tank--all in one year! Babak will explain the principles behind the "lean" start up model, value of patents, importance of guerrilla marketing, and why you don't have to quit your day job to be an 
entrepreneur.
8pm
FASHION QUARTERLY S/S ‘15 LAUNCH PARTY 
W/ EMILIO CAZARES - THE LOFT
Enjoy live music from Emilio and Gabriel Cazares, 
drinks and bites from Zanzibar, raffles prizes, and more! Interested in fashion or joining FQ? Come network with UCSD's fashion community, including Charlie Yip Brand. Put on your best spring/summer look, and we'll see you soon! SAT5.30
8pm
FREEDOM FRY W/ THE BREVET AND VIDA BLUE 
- THE LOFT
Three bands for free! Come check out one of the last 
concerts of the quarter at The Loft! Freedom Fry started the year at #1 on The Hype Machine with their first in a series of new singles, Shaky Ground (Hey Na 
Na Na). They toured the west coast with Belgian 
sensation Stromae, all followed up with a Los Angeles residency during the month of May!10am
BODY COMP ANALYSIS - THE ZONE
Walk in for your free analysis which includes: body weight, percentage body fat, total body water, and blood pressure. One free assessment per quarter is 
available to registered UCSD students
2:30pm
MEET UPS: CAREER CONVERSATIONS - 
WOMEN'S CENTER
Part of The Real World Career Series: building skills 
for a diverse interconnected community.
7pm
FITSTOP FITNESS ASSESSMENTS - RIMAC
This free fitness assessment measures a person's 
level of fitness compared to others in the same age group. Special equipment and exercises are used to measure blood pressure, heart rate, percent of body 
fat, flexibility, cardiovascular endurance, abdominal 
strength and upper body strength. No appointment 
necessary! Walk on in for a 20 minute assessment!
FRI5.29
12pm
GENDER BUFFET SERIES - WOMEN’S CENTER
Join us for Gender Buffet this week for some free snacks and conversation on invisible disability, women, 
community, activism, and more!
2:30pm
CAREER CHATS WITH CSC - THE ZONE
Drop by and chat with a Career Services Center advisor about professional career objectives and goal setting so that you can be successful!
8pm
BLACKBIRD BLACKBIRD W/ ARDENCY - THE 
LOFT
Blackbird Blackbird is the moniker of San 
Francisco-based wunderkind Mikey Maramag. His 
unique style of dreamy folktronica recalls influences from all ends of the musical spectrum; deeply textured, hypnotic songs pay homage to psychedelic pop the likes of Caribou and Washed Out, while the warmth of analogue instrumentation spliced with digital artifacts hints at contemporaries James Blake, Four Tet and 
Mount Kimbie. Anthemic, dream-driven themes inspire 
Blackbird Blackbird's work, layers of electronic texture 
drape over organic sounds and ghostly vocals. Within elongated song structures, Blackbird Blackbird harnesses thematic elements of dynamism and composition to create depth and complexity, while never losing sight of his pop sensibilities.SUN5.31
6pm
ROCK SITE MICROSITE - MARSHALL COLLEGE 
ROOM, PC WEST, LEVEL 2
The Rock Church now has a Microsite on campus! 
Join us for a live-streaming service this Sunday!
8pm
COME FROM AWAY - LA JOLLA PLAYHOUSE
Come from Away is an original, rock-inspired world-premiere musical based on the true story of when the isolated town of Gander, Newfoundland played host to the world. What started as an average day in a small town turned in to an international sleepover when 38 planes were diverted to Gander on September 11, 2001. Undaunted by culture clashes and language barriers, the spirited town cheered the stranded travelers with music, an open bar and the recognition that we're all part of a global family.
THE LOFT, PRICE CENTER
JOIN  THE
CONVERS ATION
staywith me.ucsd.eduWIN SHARE
a free shirt or t ank.
Winner  chosen daily .  
staywithmeucsd10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 26, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
CLASSIFIEDS$
Guar dian Classi/f_ieds ar e FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifieds
ELECTRONICS
Metz 58 AF-2 Flashes/Strobes - $275. I am 
selling three Metz AF-2 flashes. They are 
designed to be mounted on Panasonic/
Leica/Olympus cameras, but are perfect 
for any off-camera setup. The flashes are 
as powerful as Nikon SB-910’s, but much 
cheaper. Buy all three for $750 or individu -
ally for $275 each. Listing ID: 151305360 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Pelican 1600 Waterproof Case - $100. Never 
been used. Retail for $16. Inside dimen -
sions: 21.75”L x 16.81”W x 7.88”D. Easy 
open double-throw latches, fold down han -
dle. Listing ID: 151305359 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
Nikon 80-400mm f/4.5-5.6D ED Autofocus 
VR Zoom Nikkor Lens EXC++ - This is a fully 
functioning, hardly used Nikon 80-400mm lens. Always stored in a case, adult owned, 
hardly used. USA model. The lens shows 
minimal signs of use. It come with front and 
rear caps, hood, case and box, as well as a 
collar for a tripod or a monopod. Listing ID: 
151305358 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
BIKES
Men’s Nishiki Sport Road Bike 62 cm - $210. 
12 speed. Clean. Good working condi -
tion. New tires and handlebar tape. Quick 
release wheels. Frame Cr-mo 4130 tuve 
Japan. Listing ID: 151305315 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
24” S-E SO-CAL flyer, BMX Cruiser - $240. 
Tuned and ready to roll. Listing ID: 
151305314 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
20” Girls Electra “Hawaii” Bike - $125. 
Purchased from Metro Cyclery on Morena 
Blvd. 18 months ago, and hardly ridden 
because my daughter outgrew it too fast. 
But it’s in excellent condition because she 
only rode it about 10 to 15 times. I just 
brought it back in to Metro Cyclery for a 
fresh tune-up so she is ready to ride right 
now. Listing ID: 151305313 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
AUTO
2012 Hyundai Sonata SE 4D Sedan - $17200. 
Active ECO System, MP3 decoder, Radio: 
Autonet AM/FM/XM/CD/MP3, steering 
wheel audio controls, XM Satellite Radio, 
air conditioning, automatic temperature control, front dual zone A/C, Rear window 
defroster, integrated bluetooth, hands-free 
phone system, power driver seat, power 
locks, power steering, power window. 
Listing ID: 150046456 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
1970 AMX Blue 360 Auto - $19700. Rare. 
360 motor and auto transmission and even 
rarer factory blue on blue combination. 
Fresh motor. Fresh trans. Near new front 
tires and tune up parts. Have less than 200 
miles on them. Runs great. Great invest -
ment. Needs paint. Listing ID: 149141788 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
20” Velocity 925A Wheels/Tires - $1000. I got 
a set of velocity wheels with tires 245/35/20 
in a high offset for Toyota, Nissan, Lexus, 
Infiniti, BMW and all midsize cars. Mounting 
and balancing sensor swap also available. 
Listing ID: 149138826 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
.com/ucsdguardian
asgraphicstudioApply to
asgraphicstudio@ucsd.edu
*include resume & design samples/ portfolio
graphic
artistswantedgraphic
artistswantedINTERNSHIPS
www.icnglobal.netSummer internships available in 
London, Berlin, Prague, Madrid, 
Istanbul, Seoul, Shanghai. 
6 month paid internships in 
Australia. Unpaid internships in 
Manhattan, New York.
Contact Roar at 212-268-0685 
roar@icncareer.com
t
your visi on,
our missi on.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCrea te custom a pparel to 
promote your student 
organiza tion with Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!crossword
ACROSS
1 Humped beast
6 Sidewalk eatery
10 Drive in reverse, with “up”
14 McCain beater
15 State with assurance
16 Double-reed woodwind
17 Final bios
18 Grand Theft Auto, e.g.
20 Young man
21 General __ chicken: Chinese dish
23 Stateroom
24 Become fuzzy
25 Nine-to-five grind
27 Sterling afternoon serving pieces
31 Tense
32 Take it easy
33 A/C capacity meas.
36 Best poker pair
37 Dew’s chilly cousin
39 Rachel’s sister
40 Golfing standard
41 Committed perjury
42 Actor Danny
44 Ideal mate
46 Brings into harmony
49 Sales staff members, briefly
50 Made an effort
51 Conceal
52 Highest-ranking USN officer
55 Annual English sports event that 
begins today, and a hint to this puzzle’s 
theme
58 AM/FM apparatus
60 52-Down son
61 Croon
62 Bucky Beaver’s toothpaste
63 Make over
64 Toy dog, briefly
65 Dud of a carDOWN
1 Chilly
2 “Mamma Mia!” group
3 Word after nurse or milk
4 CPR performer
5 Final race segment
6 Frolic
7 Hertz competitor
8 G-man
9 Before, in poetry
10 “The African Queen” costar
11 Addis __
12 Stand-up performer
13 New Hampshire city
19 Musical eightsome
22 Foolproof
24 Some men’s underwear
25 Actress Charlotte and explorer John
26 Per what was previously mentioned
27 Suds source
28 Ancient Andean
29 Ogle
30 Wear gradually
33 Suspenders alternative
34 After-bath powder
35 “This can’t be good”
38 Gridiron zebras
39 Pastoral places
41 Tennis great Ivan
43 Put in danger
44 Zuni or Hopi home
45 Recoil in fear
46 Battling
47 “Survivor” unit
48 Measured with a stopwatch
51 Goose’s cry
52 Sixth-day creation
53 Flintstone pet
54 Ghostly sound
56 Paranormal ability
57 Conk out
59 Gorilla, e.g.
www.ucsdguardian.org/advertisingT urn Your ACTIONS
into Words
Advertise your event, your product!
Advertise yourself withSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 26, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
through the water, shoves the 
rower’s body back and forces the 
oar handle over his or her head. 
Recovering isn’t easy, either, and it’s 
impossible to do without disrupting 
the swing of the boat.
Physical power and focus on 
technique will get the boat moving, 
but the mental willpower is what 
keeps it that way. The rowers race 
with their backs to the finish line 
— it’s a psychological advantage 
because they can’t see their posi -
tion in the race or how far away the 
finish line is. This slight advantage won’t carry a boat through, though; 
every rower has to be present men -
tally and remain strong and com -
posed for each stroke, despite the 
savage pain tearing through their 
legs and arms.
There’s more to the boat than 
just brawn. Though the rowers’ role 
and the coxswain’s role cannot be 
compared in terms of difficulty, 
the coxswain, arguably, is just as 
important to success as the rowers 
are. In a typical eight-person boats, 
the coxswain sits in the stern of the 
boat. He or she acts as the naviga -
tor and motivator for the rowers, and a coxswain’s responsibilities 
include steering a straight course 
and keeping the rowers focused, 
controlled and calm. The coxswain 
has as thorough an understand -
ing of the sport as a rower does, 
and the best coxswains understand 
how to most effectively motivate 
each rower to get to the finish line. 
Coxswains coordinate the rowers 
into one fluid machine, and with -
out their constant motivation and 
technical calls, it would be consid -
erably more difficult to row a race.
John Seabrook’s 1996 New 
Y orker article, entitled “Feel No Pain” , sums all this up perfectly: 
“Marathon runners talk about hit -
ting ‘the wall’ at the 23rd mile of 
the race. What rowers confront 
isn’t a wall; it’s a hole — an abyss 
of pain, which opens up in the 
second minute of the race. Large 
needles are being driven into your 
thigh muscles, while your fore -
arms seem to be splitting. Then 
the pain becomes confused and 
disorganized, not like the winded -
ness of the runner or the leg burn 
of the biker, but an all-over, sav -
age unpleasantness. As you pass 
the 500-meter mark, with three-quarters of the race still to row, you 
realize with dread that you are not 
going to make it to the finish, but 
at the same time, the idea of let -
ting your teammates down by not 
rowing your hardest is unthinkable. 
Therefore, you are going to die. ”
Every stroke from start to finish 
is an “on” stroke. Rowers swing for 
every other person in the boat, and 
to give up is unthinkable. The only 
thing left to do is sink the blade in 
the water and row.A 2,000 Meter Test of  Individual Willpower, Team Cohesion and Physical Strength and Endurance   
A Young UCSD Track and Field Team Will Look to Build off  Championship Success in Upcoming Season  
record next year!”
Another first-time NCAA quali -
fier, senior Ellexi Snover, the 17th 
seed, finished in 16th in the javelin 
on the final day of competition. 
Her first throw of 106-5/12 came 
up extremely short of her 143-
5/12 mark that earned her the trip         
to nationals. 
After fouling on her second 
attempt, she improved her first attempt’s mark to 134-1/3, but that 
was not good enough to take her to 
the finals. She finished 16th out of 
20 competitors. 
“I was happy with my             
performance because I came in 
ranked 17th and ended up 16th, ” 
Snover said. “For having just 
started javelin a year and a half ago, 
I am happy, and now that I have 
experienced nationals and know 
the intensity and how exciting it is, I am determined to not only make 
it to nationals next year, but get 
All-American with a strong off-sea -
so n and focus next year on skills to 
get me further. ”
Howe — who was the lone 
automatic and veteran qualifier 
for the Tritons — concluded his 
UCSD track and field career with 
a 10th-place finish with a throw 
of 207-7. Howe was just a few feet 
shy of advancing to the finals and thus earning three more throws to 
improve on his performance. His 
disappointing finish, though, will 
not overshadow his remarkable 
career at UCSD. He will be remem -
bered as a two-time All-American, 
three-time California Collegiate 
Athletic Association champion in 
the javelin and the No. 2 record-
holder for this event on UCSD’s 
all-time list. 
Despite Howe and Snover graduating, UCSD will have a 
strong group of returning athletes 
looking to repeat this year’s strong      
CCAA finish. 
With so many school records 
broken this season, the Tritons’ 
track and field teams will surely 
improve upon their already         
successful season.▶ MIND OF AN ATHLETE,  from page 12
▶ TRACK AND FIELD , from page 12readers can contact
ka tie potts    kpotts@ucsd.edu 
readers can contact
Rosina garcia     rmg008@ucsd.edu 
Follow Us on Twitter
@UCSD _Sports
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
MARCUS THUILLIER
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 26, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
When I tell people I row, I tend 
to get one of two responses: “Y ou 
row? Y our arms must be really 
buff!” or “Like, in a boat?” Both 
are usually accompanied by some   
ridiculous mimicry of rowing 
motions.
 Unless you are in the sport 
yourself, or have a friend or fam -
ily member who does it, chances 
are you don’t know much about it. 
Throughout high school, I knew 
rowing existed; it just existed out 
in the periphery. When I first fell 
into the sport in college, I had only 
a vague idea of what I was getting 
myself into.
 I’m not an expert rower by any 
means, but it doesn’t take an expert 
to understand the amounts of team 
cohesion and technical prowess 
that it takes to keep a boat moving 
smoothly. It doesn’t take an expert 
to realize the grit and willpower it 
takes to push a boat to the finish 
line. Even with just a single year of 
experience under my belt, I already 
have the utmost respect for rowers.
For the not-so-well-versed, 
crew isn’t just “buff arms” (insert 
ridiculous arm-pumping motion       
here). It’s a common misconcep -
tion that all it takes is a strong 
upper body to row, but in reality, 
it’s a full-body sport. Almost every 
muscle is engaged at one point or 
another — from the catch to the 
finish (for non-rowers: the point 
where the oar goes into the water 
to the end of the stroke). It takes 
strong arms for an aggressive fin -
ish, but rowers also need incredible 
leg strength for a powerful drive 
and a steady core to maintain their 
form throughout the stroke. 
The technical skill is just as criti -
cal as the brute strength. This was 
an aspect of crew that I never under -
stood until I stepped into a boat 
myself. It didn’t take long to realize 
this, though, and refining that tech -
nique was frustrating as all hell.
The boat won’t stay balanced on 
its own, and it takes tremendous 
focus — especially in the learning 
stages of the sport — to keep it that 
way. Every person in the boat has 
to contribute: Every oar handle has 
to remain level and matched with 
others in the boat. Every rower has 
to remain perfectly in sync, follow -
ing the swing of the body in front 
of them to maintain the proper 
drive-to-recovery ratio. If just one 
of these aspects is off, it can hurt 
the boat’s time in the end.
Careful oar work from each 
individual is as integral as team 
cohesion — every blade has to 
enter the water at the same time, 
and if it doesn’t, it upsets the bal -
ance. Flattening the blade, or 
“feathering, ” when it’s out of the 
water minimizes drag, but if the 
rower don’t square up soon enough 
it can have fairly disastrous results. 
“Catching a crab” can happen, 
meaning the blade gets yanked The UCSD track and field season concluded this past week -
end as five Tritons competed in the Division-II NCAA 
Championships in Allendale, Michigan. The Tritons had 
mixed results, with freshman Matt Bowen being the only one to 
achieve All-American status in the triple jump. Two-time All-
American senior Nash Howe failed to repeat a third time in the     
javelin, finishing in 10th, while the three other Tritons failed to crack 
the top 10 in their respective events.
Competing on Thursday of last week, sophomore pole vaulter 
Chrissi Carr was the first of the five to represent the Tritons. Seeded 
15th with a mark of 3.80 meters, Carr tied for 16th, clearing 11-9 3/4. 
After fouling the first two of her three tries, the bar fell on her third, 
but officials deemed it legal, claiming that the wind caused it to fall. 
Carr was unable to clear the next mark, 12-1 1/2 in her three allowed 
tries, thus ending her NCAA Championships debut. 
Also making her NCAA debut, sophomore Savanna Forry com -
peted in day two of the championship meet on Friday, tying for 11th 
place in the high jump. Although coming in as the No. 6 seed with a 
mark of 5-8, Forry was only able to clear the 5-5 mark, falling short 
of her championship aspiration. She opted not to jump on the start -
ing height of 5-3, cleared the 5-5 mark in one try and failed to clear 
the next height of 5-7 in three tries. 
“NCAAs didn’t go exactly how I had hoped, but I still made a 
big improvement as a jumper by coming in at the second height and 
clearing it first attempt, ” Forry explained to the UCSD Guardian. “It 
was such a fun trip, and I was thrilled to have the privilege of going 
and competing against the best of Division-II so I know what to look 
forward to and expect for next year.
I am anxious for next season to keep working toward the school 
record and to watch the rest of my team succeed as well. We have a 
lot of talent and next year is going to be the year. ”
Bowen provided some positive results for the Tritons in the      
second day of competition, earning All-American status with a sixth-
place finish in the triple jump. After jumping 49-11 in his first three 
attempts, Bowen sat comfortably in seventh place and thus advanced 
to the finals, where he had the opportunity to jump three more times. 
On his second attempt in the finals, he jumped an amazing 50-5 1/4, 
putting him in sixth place, where he would remain. This mark earned 
him All-American honors and improved his own career best and 
made the second-best record on UCSD’s all-time list. 
“Going to nationals was so much better of an experience than 
I expected, ” Bowen told the Guardian. “The competition was awe -
some, and everyone really showed up to win. It was a huge honor to 
receive the All-American award as a freshman. I had a huge jump 
that scratched, but that just means next season will be even more 
successful than this. That jump really got me excited about next sea -
son because both my coach and I believe I’ll be breaking the school Rowing: 
Providing 
A Little Bit 
of  Insight
Ka tie Potts
kpotts@ucsd.eduMind   of  an   A thlete         
See MIND OF AN ATHLETE , page 11See TRACK AND FIELD , page 11
Mixed
Results at 
NCAAs
Five track and field athletes conclude their season;  
one Triton earns All-American status.
Written by Rosina Garcia // Copy Editor
Photo by Haocheng Tang
TRITON HONORS
TRACK AND FIELD
•	SENIOR	JAVELIN	 THROWER	NASH	HOWE
•	FRESHMAN	 TRIPLE	JUMPER	MATT	BOWEN
•	SOPHOMORE	HIGH	JUMPER	SAVANNA	FORRY	
•	SOPHOMORE	POLE	 VAULTER	CHRISSI	CARR
•	SOPHOMORE	 TRIPLE	JUMPER	DEREK	 VAN	DE	STREEK
•	SENIOR	TRIPLE	JUMPER	CHANTIA	JUSTICE
•	SENIOR	TRIPLE	JUMPER	KRISTIN	SATO
•	FRESHMAN	 TRIPLE	JUMPER	 TAIS	MARINHO-GOMEZ
•	JUNIOR	HIGH	JUMPER	DEVON	BROOK
•	SOPHOMORE	DECATHLETE	DAN	GOLUBOVIC
•	JUNIOR	POLE	 VAULTER	MEGAN	BENHAM
•	THE	WOMEN’S	4-X-400	RELAY	 TEAM	OF	SENIORS	
SABRINA	PIMENTEL, 	JACKIE	CHALMERS, 	ELLEXI	
SNOVER	AND	SOPHOMORE	MARISA	PADILLA
•	SOPHOMORE	800-METER	RUNNER	JARED	SENESE
•	JUNIOR	SHOT	PUTTER	JARED	SHAHBAZIAN	
•	FRESHMAN	HIGH	JUMPER	RAYMOND	SILVER