VOLUME 48, ISSUE 50  THURSDAY , APRIL 30, 2015 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGN EWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 30, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 2
A former animal trainer for 
the San Diego Zoo recently made 
public allegations criticizing the 
facility’s elephant exhibit in an 
interview with King 5 News, calling 
the living conditions “prison-like”                  
and “not adequate. ”
In 2009, the San Diego Zoo 
opened its Elephant Odyssey, and 
it currently hosts two temporary 
residents, Bamboo and Chai, who 
they transported from Seattle’s 
Woodland Park Zoo. Former 
employee Britta Wilson said that 
the transportation of the elephants 
was detrimental to their well-being. 
“What they’ve just had to go 
through was super stressful for 
them, ” Wilson said. “I’ d be surprised 
if something bad doesn’t happen. I 
hope it doesn’t. ”
Furthermore, Wilson thinks that 
any zoo would be unsuitable for 
elephants to live in.
“There’s just not a lot going on, ” 
Wilson said. “ A lot of dirt, a lot of 
metal, a lot of enclosure, not a lot     
of stimulation. ”
However, San Diego 
Zoo’s Manager of Public 
Relations Christina Simmon                                                              
s told the UCSD Guardian that 
they did not receive any formal 
complaints from Wilson or 
any, in general, regarding its                     
elephant exhibit.
“We have a mechanism for 
these concerns to be submitted in 
a scientific fashion, anonymously, 
to a panel of in house experts, ” 
Simmons said. “We can tell you that 
we are not aware of any allegations 
like this made. ”
Staff from Woodland Park Zoo, 
who are in San Diego with Bamboo 
and Chai, also told King 5 News 
that the two “are in good health, ” are 
“well-trained” and “are interacting 
with their keepers. ”
Moreover, Simmons speculates 
that Wilson may be involved with 
the People for the Ethical Treatment 
of Animals and is trying to make 
the public aware of San Diego Zoo’s 
attempts to bring in a group of 
elephants from Swaziland in 2003, 
a family group that was at risk due 
to overpopulation.
“ At that time, representatives of 
PETA stated in federal court that 
they would rather see the elephants 
dead than in a zoo, ” Simmons said. 
“Despite their attempts to stop our 
work, the elephants were rescued, 
and they and their offspring are 
currently living at the [San Diego 
Zoo] Safari Park. ”
According to Simmons, the 
zoo is currently working on a 
number of conservation projects 
and is launching a rally to support 
Assembly Bill 96, which restricts 
the sale of ivory and rhino horns    
in California.
“San Diego Zoo Global 
continues to be committed to 
saving elephants, rhinos and other 
African species currently at severe 
risk of extinction due to poaching, ” 
Simmons said.
Wilson also accused the 
zoo of participating in animal 
mistreatment. According to King 
5 News, Wilson left in 2008 after 
spending 12 years with the zoo 
after realizing that her employers THE BEST DAY OF 
THE YEAR
YOU KNOW SNOOP DOGG IS 
DESCENDING ON RIMAC FIELD 
ON MAY 3, BUT HOW WELL DO 
YOU KNOW ABOUT OK GO’S 
MUSIC VIDEOS? CHECK OUT 
OUR GUIDE TO THIS YEAR’S 
HIGHLY ANTICIPATED LINEUP .
THURSDAY
H 79 L 59FRIDAY
H 78 L 57
SATURDAY
H 72 L 55SUN GOD DAY
H 70 L 55FORECAST
VERBATIM
WE COULD 
SAY, ‘LOOK 
CANADA, WE 
HAVE OUR 
OWN PUBLIC 
HEALTH CARE 
INSURANCE 
SYSTEM NOW.’ BUT REALLY, 
WHO ARE WE KIDDING? WE 
ARE SO LATE...”
- Ayat Amin/Marcus Thuillier
Across the Globe 
OPINION , PAGE 4
INSIDE
AVERAGE CAT  ................. 3
PORTER’S FUTURE  .......... 4
FILM REVIEWS...............13                    
SUDOKU  ....................... 14
ROWING TEAMS  ............ 15“
WEEKEND,  P AGE  7
PHOTO COURTESY OF RAP BASEMENT
Nick Woodman, CEO of 
GoPro and a UCSD alumnus, 
was recently named the highest-
paid CEO of 2014, according to                     
Bloomberg Magazine.
Woodman, whose salary is 
$284.5 million, replaced Charif 
Souki, CEO of Cheniere Energy, 
who earned $281 million in 2013, 
as the highest paid CEO at the 
end of 2014. Additionally, Cheniere 
Energy also reduced Souki’s pay in 
2014, which makes Woodman the 
highest-paid CEO.
GoPro earns $634 million in 
quarterly revenue and Woodman 
is listed at an estimated $2.4 billion 
according to Forbes Magazine.
Woodman credits his time at 
UCSD as the source of his company’s 
origins and conception. “This is actually where GoPro 
started, you could argue. It’s where 
I learned about my love of visual 
arts and photography, love of 
surfing, and GoPro is really the 
combination of my passions in the 
form of a business, ” Woodman said 
in an interview with CBS News. “I 
got very lucky as an entrepreneur 
that I could combine my personal 
passion with business. So I owe UC 
San Diego a ton for helping find 
who I really am. ”
However, Woodman might not 
have even attended UCSD if he 
hadn’t appealed the rejection letter 
the school sent him — an action 
which led to him being admitted to 
the university. 
Woodman graduated from UCSD 
in 1997, majoring in visual arts and 
minoring in creative writing. After 
his marketing company FunBug 
failed, Woodman traveled around 
the world, surfing. The self-made billionaire was inspired to create 
the GoPro Camera while trying to 
record himself surfing in Australia 
and Indonesia on a handheld camera.
After developing the GoPro 
camera, a high-definition camera 
able to capture still photos and 
videos and which can easily be 
attached to a helmet or wrist, a 
Japanese company purchased 100 
GoPro cameras for a sports event in 
2004. In 2012, GoPro sold over 2.4 
million cameras, and the Chinese 
electronics company Foxconn 
invested over $200 million in GoPro.
Woodman believes that his hard 
work and perseverance got him to 
be where he is. 
“To everyone [at] home 
watching, I am not that smart. I am 
just that dedicated, ” Woodman said. 
“Y ou have to be a little maniacal 
to see things through. Y ou don’t CAMPUS
UCSD students join in solidarity to remember victims at the candlelight vigil organized by the Nepalese Student Association. 
Photo by Thiba Thiagarajan /UCSD Guardian.
Students Mourn Nepal 
Earthquake Victims at Vigil
Hundreds of students gathered in 
front of Geisel Library on Tuesday 
night to hold a candlelight vigil for 
the victims of the Nepal earthquake. The 
Nepalese Student Association organized the 
event and collected donations to contribute 
toward disaster relief.
The night began with students and 
community members lighting candles on 
the ground, which were arranged to spell 
“NEPAL ” in both English and Nepali. 
NSA President Shreyash Bhattarai opened 
up the formal portion of the event by thanking 
those who are contributing to the relief.
“I am so proud to be a human today 
because we are supporting something that is 
happening on the other side of the world, ” 
Bhattarai said.
Bhattarai then called for the attendees 
to participate in a minute-long moment of 
silence to honor the earthquake victims and 
their families. 
Following this, Vice Chancellor of Student Affairs Juan Gonzalez and Acting Provost 
of Earl Warren College Ivan Evans both 
delivered speeches expressing their grief over 
the lost lives. 
“We light a candle in hope of their 
recovery, ” Gonzalez said. “We light a candle to 
reflect the love that we wish to send to them 
and hopefully the thousands of dollars that 
we’ll send to them. ”
Gonzalez also praised NSA for its quick 
response and rapid relief efforts. 
“I started sending emails out Saturday as 
soon as I woke up and became cognizant of 
this, ” Gonzalez said. “Students stepped up 
and said, ‘We shall make a difference. We will 
remember our families and friends. ’ And so to 
them, I stand in awe and with great gratitude. ”
The earthquake occurred near Nepal’s 
capital, Kathmandu, on Saturday with a 
magnitude of 7.8 and has led to more than 
5,000 deaths and 10,000 injuries. However, 
Nepalese Prime Minister Sushil Koirala 
warned that his nation’s death toll might   B y  JACKY  TO    SENIOR STAFF WRITER 
UCSD Alumnus Becomes Highest Paid CEO
After graduating with a degree in visual arts in 1997, Nick Woodman founded GoPro.See VIGIL , page 6
See GOPRO , page 6Former Zoo
Employee 
Alleges Abuse 
in ExhibitSAN DIEGO
According to a former animal 
trainer, elephants at the San 
Diego Zoo were forced to live 
in uninhabitable conditions.
B Y  Jacky To
senior staff Writer
See ZOO , page 6ALUMNIRESTRICTED  SUN  GOD
FESTIV AL READY?
GET YOUR CUL TURE ON
TRITON  THREEPEA TThe  Growing  List  of  Rules
Ever ything you need for SGF
The Guardian Visits MCASD
W A TER  POLO  DOMINA TES  WWP AOPINION,  P age   4
LIFESTYLE,  P age  10
Lifestyle,  P age  12
SPORTS,  P age  16
B Y  Omkar Mahajan  
Contributing Writer
N EWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 30, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
AVERAGE CAT By Christina Carlson
Researchers at UCSD School of 
Medicine and an international team of 
scientists discovered genetic overlap 
between Alzheimer’s disease and two 
high-risk factors of cardiovascular 
disease. The study was published 
on April 10, 2015, via the scientific 
journal, Circulation.
The two risk factors are C-reactive 
protein and plasma lipids. CRP is 
a type of substance that increases 
with inflammatory reaction in a 
body, and plasma lipids are types of 
fat, mostly composed of fatty acids                        
and cholesterol.
Scott LaFee, a scientific journalist 
from UCSD Health System, explained 
the significance of the work of             
the researchers.
“The key here was that they 
identified that the genes, [CRP and 
plasma lipids], have some connection 
with those risk factors of Alzheimer’s 
disease, ” LaFee told the UCSD 
Guardian. “So the idea being that if you can control those risk factors, 
you can ideally slow the progression 
of Alzheimer’s disease. ”
In the past, scientists were 
aware that a correlation exists 
between Alzheimer’s disease and 
cardiovascular disease. However, 
the relationship between the two 
diseases was and still is unclear. To 
extract further knowledge of the 
link between the two diseases, the 
researchers dug into minor details of 
examining specific genetic signals.
According to the article published 
in Circulation, the researchers 
engaged in a statistical investigation 
and found out that the overlap 
associated with Alzheimer’s disease, 
CRP and the three components of 
total cholesterol in single nucleotide 
polymorphisms enriches AD SNPs, 
which increases the risk of developing 
Alzheimer’s disease. SNPs refer to the 
most common genetic variations in 
human body.
“Using summary statistics from 
genome-wide association studies 
of over 200,000 individuals, we 
investigated overlap in single nucleotide polymorphisms 
associated with clinically diagnosed 
Alzheimer’s disease and C-reactive 
protein, triglycerides, high- and 
low-density lipoprotein levels, ” the 
researchers reported. “We found up 
to 50-fold enrichment of Alzheimer’s 
disease SNPs for different levels of 
association with CRP , LDL, HDL    
and TG-SNPs. ”
The contemporary treatments for 
Alzheimer’s disease are not capable 
of fully controlling the symptoms 
of the disease. On the other hand, 
the treatments for cardiovascular 
disease are relatively much more 
effective, and the link between 
the two diseases may open a new 
pathway to Alzheimer’s disease’s                      
effective treatment.
“This finding suggests that 
here you have two risk factors for 
cardiovascular disease, which are 
more controllable; you can lower 
cholesterol, you can lower blood 
lipids and inflammatory protein, ” 
LaFee said. “ And that may have an 
impact on prospects of people getting 
Alzheimer’s disease. ”Ole A. Andreassen, senior 
co-author of the research, spoke about 
the importance of potential success in 
finding an effective treatment.
“Currently, there are no disease-
modifying therapies, and much 
attention has been focused upon 
prevention and early diagnosis, ” 
Andreassen said to UCSD Health 
System. “Delaying dementia onset by 
even just two years could potentially 
lower the worldwide prevalence of 
Alzheimer’s disease by more than 
22 million cases over the next four 
decades, resulting in significant 
societal savings. ”
Alzheimer’s disease is a 
neurological disorder that degenerates 
memory and cognition. Some of its 
symptoms include loss of memory, 
impaired speaking and writing and 
change in personality and behavior. In 
the U.S., more than 5 million people 
suffer from the disease, most of the 
patients being over the age of 65.SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY
UCSD scientists found that heart disease genes have a connection to risk factors of Alzheimer’s that may be controllable.
B Y  Bruce B.Y. Lee
Staff Writer
BRUCE B. Y. LEE  BY1019@ucsd.edu readers can contactResearchers Find Link Between Alzheimer’s and Heart Disease
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2015, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. Fuck this staff box.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Aleksandra Konstantinovic
Andrew E. Huang  
Taylor Sanderson
Tina  Butoiu
Kriti Sarin
Cassia Pollock
Marcus Thuillier
John Story
Teiko Yakobson
Jacqueline Kim
Kyle Somers
Nilu Karimi
Siddharth Atre
Jonathan Gao
Joselynn Ordaz
Sherman Aline
Elyse Yang
Annie Liu
Rosina Garcia
Jennifer Grundman
Laura Chow
Vincent PhamEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
Associate News Editor
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Social Media Coordinator
Training and Development
Page Layout
Allison Kuno
Distribution
Christopher Graves, Josef Goodyear
Copy Readers
Andrew Chao, Caroline Lee, Sage Schubert-Christian,
 Marissa Barber, Heejung Lim
Editorial Assistants
Shelby Newallis, Karly Nisson, Mario Attie, Katie Potts4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 30, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CASSIA POLLOCK
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
ILLUSTRATION BY ELYSE YANG
After last year’s incidents at the annual Sun 
God Festival, it was obvious that changes 
needed to be made to the festival in order 
for it to survive. This year, the Office of Student 
Conduct updated the policy and safety regulations 
for the festival, and the changes include items that 
will supposedly improve our Sun God Festival 
experience. Although the administration has a 
history of caging us into the event — which they 
are continuing to do this year — we commend 
them for trying to educate us about safe drinking 
instead of just telling us not to do it. 
For several years, the administration has been 
trying to define the limits of an “improved Sun God 
experience. ” From discussions about changing the 
day of the week the festival is held to threatening 
to cancel the event altogether, safety seems to 
be the priority for the administration. Last year, 
Eleanor Roosevelt College, the Village and I-House residents received wristbands proving that they 
were residents to make sure that non-residents 
weren’t partying in the area. This year, however, 
“only residents of their respective residential 
areas are allowed to be present in living spaces of 
those areas during specified time periods during 
the weekend of the Sun God Festival. ” Like the 
move to RIMAC Field, the administration is again 
minimizing the space we can have fun in. Another 
addition — a no re-entry policy — shows how the 
administration is trying to sustain the festival in a 
way that takes away from what the festival used to 
be: a campuswide event. Note to administrators: 
Smaller space does not equal less activity or less 
trouble. 
Furthermore, students who get in trouble 
between April 30 at 8 p.m. and May 4 at 8 a.m. are 
subject to further consequences, such as delayed 
graduation and not being allowed to attend 
See SUN GOD, page 5The Patient Protection and 
Affordable Care Act recently 
celebrated its year and a 
half of existence. If you haven’t 
heard about it in recent news, that’s 
because “Obamacare” actually works. 
Take that, Republicans! Despite 
the early backlash about the lonely 
106,000 people who signed up in the 
first month after Obamacare’s launch 
in October 2013, the program has 
made its way and now holds a rel -
evant place in American society. The 
stats are even here to prove it. 
Before we dive into the stats 
and the reasons why Obamacare 
has been a long-overdue suc -
cess in America, let us remind the 
readership that our dear Canadian 
neighbors, those we playfully mock 
for their accents and the maple 
syrup they abundantly use in their 
dishes, have had their own version 
of universal healthcare for the past 
30 years after the Canada Health 
Act was passed in 1984. And this is 
the first paragraph on the Canada 
health care system’s webpage: 
“Canada’s health care system is a 
group of socialized health insur -
ance plans that provides coverage to 
all Canadian citizens. It is publicly 
funded and administered on a pro -
vincial or territorial basis, within 
guidelines set by the federal govern -
ment. ” This sounds great and shows 
a health guideline totally in touch 
with today’s society. 
We could say, “Look, Canada, we 
have our own public health insur -
ance system now. ” But really, who are 
we kidding? We are so late amongst 
developed countries on health cov -
erage that comparing ourselves to 
others would really be an insult. Let’s 
just be proud of the accomplish -
ments from the past year and a half 
and acknowledge that, for once, 
American health insurance finally 
managed to reach a basic goal of 
human decency. 
We will start off our observations 
with noticing that the percentage 
of uninsured people has dropped 
to 12.3 percent (from around 16 
percent before the passing of the 
law), while Mother Jones magazine 
says “nearly 30 million Americans 
have gotten health insurance under 
Obamacare. ” The New Republic 
states that, based on plenty of sur -
veys, about 10 million of uninsured 
Americans are now insured under 
Obamacare. Another good piece of 
news? Health care costs are rising 
slower than expected. They rose by 
2 percent every year between 1990 
and 2008 on average, and from 2012 
on, they will only rise by 1.1 percent 
(with projections going until 2023). 
So Obamacare is a success? It 
has reached its goal to insure more 
people and to make healthcare more 
affordable. A little icing on the cake 
lies in the fact that the program has 
cost an approximate 20 percent less 
than expected over the past year and 
half, which should make everyone 
happy. Well, not quite everyone, 
since the Republicans have put the 
law on Obamacare to a vote, making 
a whopping 56 attempts to overturn 
it and failing miserably every single 
time. It seems fair to wonder if 
they really care about middle-class 
America’s health. 
And here comes Canada’s health 
care system again: “With a few 
exceptions, all citizens qualify for 
health coverage regardless of medical 
history, personal income or standard 
of living. ” Y es, that’s how it is done.Obamacare 
Makes Us 
So Proud
Marcus thuillier//
A y a t amin 
opinion@ucsdguardian.orgAcross the globe
EDITORIALS
Aleksandra Konstantinovic
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Andrew E. Huang
MANAGING EDITOR
Taylor Sanderson
MANAGING EDITORRosina Garcia
COPY EDITOR
Cassia Pollock
 OPINION EDITOR
Tina Butoiu
NEWS EDITORKriti Sarin
ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITOR
Marcus Thuillier
SPORTS EDITOR
Kyle Somers
ASSOCIATE A&E EDITOREDITORIAL  BOARD
At the end of this school year, Porter’s Pub’s 
lease is up, and the University Centers Advisory 
Board will start looking for a new tenant to take 
that space for next year. Porter’s Pub was cen -
tral to campus culture for a large group of past 
and current students, especially considering the 
caliber of concerts it brought. At the same time, 
Porter’s customers complained that the establish -
ment had a tendency to serve subpar food in an 
often empty restaurant on week nights. Clearly 
there was room for improvement, and we know 
UCAB will keep that in mind as it looks for a 
new tenant.
Hands down, the first priority is that the 
new business needs to serve alcohol in a casual 
setting. Zanzibar Cafe is a great spot to have a 
borderline-classy night with, at most, two glasses 
of a craft beer, but UCSD also needs a place to 
get more than a little tipsy and not care. Luckily, 
UCAB shares this priority, as the organization’s 
chair, Claire Maniti has indicated that the space 
will continue to be used as a pub that prioritizes 
both quality food and alcohol.And there are plenty of directions to go with 
that idea. In fact, a pub much like Porter’s that 
served good burgers and which found ways to 
keep itself more regularly populated might just 
be perfect. One of the problems that UCAB had 
with Porter’s was the fact that it sold too much 
alcohol compared to food, and an Irish- or 
English-themed establishment could get great 
business, especially if it could outperform the rel -
atively low standard of food set by dining halls.
There is also the potential of turning it into 
a student-run business (yes, a co-op), especially 
if the setting had some mass appeal. Students 
could obtain a liquor license and hire a kitchen 
staff to make food and clean dishes. The stu -
dents themselves might have a better idea of 
what their peers would want out of a bar or 
grill than an outside business, and it would be a 
great experience for economics majors and bud -
ding entrepreneurs. Maniti agrees that this idea 
is certainly possible and that it could work in 
the right format.
Some students have proposed that a chain restaurant like Buffalo Wild Wings might be a 
smart alternative to a local business; after all, it 
would have more potential for popularity. But 
even though reliably OK food at cheap prices 
sounds enticing, the last thing that UCSD needs 
is to lose more of its already dwindling culture. 
A generic chain sports bar — or really another 
chain of any kind — would waste room on cam -
pus where UCSD could put in an establishment 
that students are actually proud of. One of the 
ways that Porter’s was a success was that it cre -
ated an atmosphere with its own individual char -
acter, comparable to, but perhaps a little more 
tame than the C.H.E. Cafe.
The ultimate decisions about the space will 
be left up to UCAB this summer, although they 
have been known to consider student input 
when they get it. Even if students aren’t proac -
tive enough to make their voices heard about 
the future pub on campus, it seems that UCAB’s 
interests align closely with what students should 
want. Hopefully, we can trust them to make the 
best decision for everyone.Future Replacement of  Porter’s Pub Should Prioritize StudentsCaged In
SGF15 will implement a plethora of  restrictions and regulations, further limiting students’ 
activities. The Editorial Board weighs the effectiveness of  these safety measures.
The UCSD  Guardian is published twice weekly at the 
University of California at San Diego. Contents © 
2015. Views expressed herein represent the majority 
vote of the editorial board and are not necessarily those 
of the UC Board of Regents, the ASUCSD or the 
members of the full Guardian staff. OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 30, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
• Accredited graduate university
• On-campus and online programs that fit your lifestyle and  
learning style
• Varied and specialized clinical internship sites
• Trimester-based curriculum allowing accelerated entry into the field Earn your Doctor of Physical Therapy or Master of Occupational Therapy degree at the University of St. Augustine for Health Sciences.STRETCH MUSCLES  
AND MINDS
usa.edu  |  800-241-1027
Job #: 96261.04 Ref #:
Client: USA Desc: DPT/MOT Print Ad
Size: 5" x 8" Color: BW
Fonts: Avenir, Avenir Next Condensed Bold
Pub: USCD The Guardian Date: 3-19-15 Version: FNL
AE: MN Traf: MD AD: PB GD: ME PrintProd: MEDIAfuture events. While the safety 
of students should be the most 
important thing, disciplining them 
for events that might not even 
pertain to the festival is not the 
answer. Essentially, all students 
will be required to walk on thin 
ice in the days leading up to the 
festival, lest they are caught doing 
something that administration 
constitutes as “pre-gaming. ” These 
safety measures hide the fact 
that the festival has lost much of 
its splendor from the past. The 
changes occupy the discussions 
and shift the focus away from a 
Sun God Festival that used to take 
place all over campus and really 
brought the UCSD community together. 
However, the administration 
took charge for past mistakes and 
shifted toward a more tolerant 
approach consisting of educating 
the student body about the dangers 
of alcohol and drug consumption. 
Drug amnesty drop-off stations 
will be available on location to 
encourage safe use. Also, on the 
official Sun God Festival website, 
the safety tips don’t advise students 
not to drink but advise them 
how to drink safely. The festival 
organizers finally recognize that 
drinking will always happen 
at such an event, and that the 
only way to control it is to raise 
awareness among students. The 
festival organizers also promised 
to be stricter in enforcing the rule that any student who appears to 
be under the influence will not be 
let in. Well, that’s easier said than 
done. Personally, we’ d like to see 
what the administration is going to 
do about potentially hundreds of 
drunk college students wandering 
around campus. But, hey, if it 
educated us correctly, maybe it 
wouldn’t have that problem. 
The student body will endure 
another Sun God Festival caged 
into RIMAC field. Hopefully 
students will get the hint 
that, unless we stop putting 
our lives in danger and begin 
following a plethora of rules, the 
administration is just going to 
bombard us with more rules and 
regulations — or discontinue the 
event altogether. Enforcement of  Safety Measures May Prove Difficult for Administrators
▶ SUN GOD,  from page 4
WORLD FRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez 
GOT ISSUES?
SEND YOUR LETTERS T O
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
YOUR VOICE 
DESERVES 
TO BE HEARD6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 30, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG N EWS
www.ucsdguardian.org/advertisingT urn Your ACTIONS
into Words
Advertise your event, your product!
Advertise yourself with
need massive intellect, you just need 
massive perseverance. ”
According to Woodman, the 
reason he majored in visual arts and 
created GoPro was that he wanted to 
use creativity to engage and interact 
with people.
“It was to be creative with a purpose and get your message or belief across 
through creative work in a manner 
that really engages your audience, ” 
Woodman said. “So they come away 
believing in the message you were 
delivering to them. ”
Ever since his company’s success, 
Woodman has been featured in 
numerous magazines, articles and 
newspapers. He was listed in Fortune Magazine’s 40 under 40 list, which lists 
40 influential people in business under 
the age of 40. Moreover, Woodman 
was featured as a guest shark in ABC’s 
hit TV show, “Shark Tank. ” Woodman 
currently lives in San Mateo with his 
wife and two children.had more interest in making money 
than taking care of its animals. 
“I even saw a lot of abuse, ” 
Wilson said. “I worked in a show 
and saw some things that were               
not great. ”
However, Simmons assured 
the Guardian that the well-
being of its animals is the zoo’s                          primary concern.
“San Diego Zoo Global prides 
itself on its leadership in animal 
care and asks all staff to alert us to 
any animal welfare concerns they 
have, ” Simmons said. “We also work 
in collaboration with and under 
permits from the U.S. Department 
of Agriculture and U.S. Fish and 
Wildlife Service, who also have 
mechanisms for handling and investigating complaints and have 
a history of working with our local 
humane society. ”
Individuals who are interested 
in joining the San Diego Zoo’s 
campaign to protect rhino’s 
from extinction can visit http://
endextinction.org/rally4rhinos.actually end up closer to 10,000. 
The earthquake also triggered an 
avalanche on Mount Everest that 
killed at least 18 climbers. 
One of those climbers 
was UC Irvine alumnus Dan 
Fredinburg, a 33-year-old Google 
executive who was there on a                                                   
company-sponsored expedition. 
Moreover, four San Diego 
residents who traveled to Nepal for 
a hiking trip are currently stranded 
in a Nepalese village and only have 
approximately a day’s worth of 
food left. One of the hiker’s sisters 
told NBC San Diego that the four 
of them are essentially running a 
rescue camp of about 30 people. 
Another San Diego resident, 
21-year-old Spencer Dickinson, managed to call his family on 
Tuesday night and confirm that he 
is alive. Dickinson had been missing 
since the earthquake and will be 
air-lifted out of the base camp soon.
Warren College sophomore and 
NSA member Bal Krishna Oli told 
the UCSD Guardian that the San 
Diego community helped spread the 
group’s message.
“I am really happy that we were 
able to do our event successfully, ” 
Oli said. “Everybody came and 
helped us out in this time of 
need. We hope to gain continued 
support from the UCSD family and                      
Nepalese community. ”
The United Nations, which 
reported that the earthquake has 
affected over 8 million people, 
released $15 million from an 
emergency fund to pay for water, medical supplies and shelter.
Oli added that the UCSD 
community can participate in the 
humanitarian effort to bring relief 
to Nepal by making monetary 
donations on campus. The NSA has 
set up a donation box on Library 
Walk where students can donate 
whatever they can, according to Oli. 
Donors can receive tax 
deductions for their contributions, 
which will go through local non-
profit organizations, including 
One Step and Shikshya Nepal. In 
addition, the NSA is partnering 
with the Nepal Red Cross Society 
and similar organizations. 
Donations can also be made online 
at http://www.helpnepaltoday.org/.Looking for the 
New Business 
Column?
Now posted every Wednesday 
night, after the A.S. Council 
meeting, online.
ucsdguardian.orgFour San Diego Residents Currently Stranded at Site of  Earthquake
▶ VIGIL,  from page 2
Zoo Officials Turn to Federal Agencies for Support with Complaints
Woodman: GoPro is About Being Creative and Engaging People▶ ZOO,  from page 2
▶ GOPRO  from page 2JACKY TO  j6to@ucsd.edu readers can contact
JACKY TO  j6to@ucsd.edu readers can contact
Omkar Mahajan  omahajan@ucsd.edu readers can contact TICKETADMIT
 ONE   
  SUN  GOD  
FEST IVAL Guide  
The Guardian ’s
sGF P laylisT  2015
Follow our Spotify
 playlist at bit.ly/sgf2015
how To PrePare
 Hand sanitizer (Porta-potties are 
not pretty.)
 Sunscreen (While magical, the 
Sun God will not protect you from 
melanoma.) 
 Hydrate (Water before, water 
during, water after. Think Aquatica 
because if you don’t hydrate, SeaWorld 
will.)
 Meditation and yoga (Deep 
breaths — not a panic attack. Yes, you 
will get hear STRFKR; calm down.)
 Finish your homework (Otherwise, 
you’ll that guy be coding under the 
table at Beer Garden.)
 Listen to the UCSD Guardian Sun 
God 2015 Mixtape (We all know you’re 
not actually doing your homework.)*
**
*
**“Young, Wild, & Free (feat. Bruno Mars)” by 
Snoop Dogg
“Girls Just Want To Have Fun”  by STRFKR
“Gin and Juice”  by Snoop Dogg
“Invincible” by OK Go
“Stay Ready (What A Life)”  by Jhene Aiko 
“Upside Down & Inside Out” by OK Go 
“Bury Us Alive” by STRFKR
“The Worst”  by Jhene Aiko 
“While I’m Alive”  by STRFKER
“Drop It Like It’s Hot”  by Snoop Dogg 
“Here  It Goes Again”  by OK Go 
“Peaches N Cream ”  by Snoop Dogg 
“Obsession”  by OK Go 
“Lyin King”  by Jhene Aiko 
“Rawnal Gregory Erickson the Second” by 
STRFKRcompiled by Jacky To, Yidian Huang, Cedric Hyon, Karly Nisson
Peter McInnis, Joselynn Ordaz, Tynan Yanaga and Kyle Somers8     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 30, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKENDENTRANCESun God Avenue/Hopkins Drive
Ridge WalkSun God Festival 2014 Set List
More info can be found at  sungodfestival.ucsd.eduVENDOR H20
NORTH
STAGE
BEER
GARDEN
[21+ with ID]CARNIVAL
GAMES
CIRCUS
PERFORMANCESLOUNGE
+ +
H20
1 2
4. Jhene Aiko
With honey-smooth 
vocals, Jhene Aiko’s 
songs are perfect for 
slow seduction. One of her latest 
and most popular songs, “The 
Worst, ” shows an earnestness 
in her lyrics combined with 
dreamy melodies such as, 
“Y ou live in a different time 
zone/ Think I know what this 
is/ It’s just the time’s wrong. ” 
The Los Angeles native has a 
style of rhythm and blues that 
falls between The Weeknd and a better Lana Del Rey. 
Aiko’s latest album, “Souled 
Out, ” released in 2014, features 
both wraithlike beats, such 
as “The Pressure, ” and calm 
serenades, like “Promises. ” 
She also draws heavily on 
her Buddhist philosophy for 
soulful and meditative lyrics. 
This has helped her mature 
from sad, romantic melodies 
to meaningful songs detailing 
her journey after her brother’s 
death. At Sun God Festival 2015, we can expect Aiko’s signature 
mellifluous vocals combined 
with either upbeat and carefree 
songs or contemplative lullabies. 
Her style promises a lighter, 
calmer sound compared to the 
rest of the lineup. Aiko brings 
both the ability to tug at the 
heartstrings of lovers and appeal 
to the dreamers and thinkers of 
the festival.
— Allison Kubo
Staff Writer
6. STRFKR5. DJ Demon
Success in the music industry is 
hard enough to come by as it is, 
not to mention for a band with 
a not-so-family-friendly name. But 
STRFKR knew that when they got into 
the business, their early attempts to 
change the name to tamer alternatives 
just didn’t feel right. Though it started 
as a joke — a dig at the proud, self-
labeled “starfuckers” frontman Josh 
Hodges was forced to spend time with 
in his introduction to the industry — 
STRFKR became a sort of empowering 
slogan for the band, a mockery of a 
vanity they’ d neither promote nor 
conform to in their music.Luckily, their explicit moniker 
doesn’t seem to be holding them back. 
The Portland quartet’s psychedelic 
indie-rock is light and airy, with the 
kind of uplifting energy that’ll have 
festival goers moving to the likes of 
MGMT and Foster the People. Be 
sure to listen for hits off of their 2013 
release, “Miracle Mile, ” and be ready to 
dance to their more familiar 2008 hit-
single “Rawnald Gregory Erickson the 
S e c o n d .”
— Karly Nisson
Editorial assistantHe commandeers the crowd with 
one hand in the air and one 
hand on the vinyl. He’s been 
able to DJ beside artists from Big Boi 
to Wiz Khalifa with aplomb. He’s a 
San Diego native with an encyclopedic 
knowledge of music and without 
mercy for the turntables. Who is it? DJ 
Demon. A local legend in the truest 
sense, he swaggers up to the stage and 
proves his abilities year after year.
The level of comfort he holds with 
the crowd comes from two things: 
his easy-going personality and a total 
of five years’ experience at Sun God 
Festival (soon to be six). Shutting 
himself in his room with nothing but 
an MPC and a desire to master his art at the age of 19, his dedication validates 
itself with the frenzy he produces at 
every show.
His concerns lay with the people, 
letting spontaneity reign both the 
music and UCSD for one day. “I’m 
an open format DJ, never restricting 
myself to the confines of a set playlist, ” 
DJ Demon said in an exclusive 
interview with the Guardian. “Instead, 
I look out at the crowd and let the kids’ 
reaction[s] take control. I understand 
what this celebration means to the 
culture and students of UCSD. ” DJ 
Demon is heaven-sent.
— Sam Velazquez
Contributing Writer
3PHOTO COURTESY OF THE DRUM
PHOTO USED WITH PERMISSION FROM BB GUN PRESSPHOTO USED WITH PERMISSION FROM SLEEPING GIANT MUSIC
More info can be found at sgf.ucsd.edu/mapGlass 
House Slide Sizzler
Century 
WheelCentury 
Wheel
TwisterWEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 30, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
EXITENTRANCESun God Avenue/Hopkins Drive
Ridge WalkSun God Festival 2014 Set List
More info can be found at  sungodfestival.ucsd.eduVENDOR $ H20
+Rimac
Arena
CIRCUS
PERFORMANCES
T.O. EXPERIENCE
SGF 15 MERCH & 
FREE PHOTOBOOTHSLOUNGE
SUN GOD
STAGE+
+ H20 $
5 641. Snoop Dogg2. DJ Mike Czech
3. OK GoAs the headliner of 
Sun God Festival 
2015, Snoop Dogg — 
formerly known as Snoopzilla, 
formerly known as Snoop 
Lion, formerly known as 
Snoop Dogg and formerly 
known as Snoop Doggy Dogg 
— can be expected to bring all 
of his usual funkadelic beats 
with him.
One of the prime pioneers of 
G-Funk hip-hop and a veteran 
of the East coast-West coast 
rivalry during the ‘90s, Snoop 
Dogg added more flavor to the mix in his debut album 
“Doggystyle. ” Sacrificing some 
lyrical poetry for clarity, Snoop 
Dogg, as a result, created a 
flow that can only be thought 
of as a sweet drawl that takes 
you for a stroll in to each verse. 
While some of his albums like 
“The Doggfather” met with 
commercial success, he never 
had the critical acclaim that 
“Doggystyle” achieved.
But, of course, the main 
elephant of the room remains: 
Snoop Dogg is notorious 
for drug usage, yet Sun God Festival is going hard about 
safety this year? Snoop 
Dogg openly talks about his 
drug usage, holds concerts 
to celebrate certain states’ 
legalization and even claims to 
have smoked with a hologram 
of Tupac (though, according to 
him, he was so high it could’ve 
just been a lamp). There 
are some high stakes here. 
Foshizzle.
— Cedric Hyon
Contributing WriterPerhaps the last name you 
are likely to recognize 
at this year’s Sun God 
Festival is disc jockey Mike 
Czech, who returns with new 
remixes from a variety of styles, 
including the Kongos’ “Come 
With Me Now” and The Black 
Keys’ “Fever. ”
Bringing expertise acquired 
from working at the Skratch 
‘N’ Sniff radio show, the local 
San Diego artist incorporates 
his own flare of bass and 
synthesizer with recent tracks 
from various genres.
“I look for special niches 
of music styles for the radio, 
especially off-radar songs that 
don’t have remixes already, ” 
Czech told the UCSD Guardian.While he celebrates the 
independent music scene, 
Czech reminisces on the loss 
of the shared community of 
listeners. Fortunately, he finds 
that the popularity of these 
outdoor arena festivals makes 
up for this, creating the sunny, 
feel-good atmosphere and the 
shared musical experience that 
unites the audience. Look for 
an eclectic mix of alternative-
rock remixes as DJ Mike Czech 
brings his intriguing musical 
vibe of indie and dubstep to the 
RIMAC stage.
— Peter McInnis
Contributing Writer
For the considerable chunk 
of UCSD students who 
prefer rock and alternative 
to rap and pop, the festival is 
going to peak with OK Go. Since 
their self-titled debut album 
released in 2002, the quartet’s 
tastes have spanned from upbeat 
pop-rock to moody, understated 
electro-alternative and plenty of 
territory in between.
Possibly better known 
than their music are their 
often outlandishly elaborate 
music videos. These include 
a choreographed dance with hundreds of Korean Japanese 
students with umbrellas shot 
from a drone (“Won’t Let Y ou 
Down”) and a Rube Goldberg 
machine spanning multiple 
warehouse stories (“This Too 
Shall Pass”).
Bassist Tim Nordwind 
discussed the band’s approach to 
festival sets like the one they’ll be 
playing at the festival.
“When we put on a live show, 
a lot of bands just go and play 
music, ” Nordwind told the UCSD 
Guardian. “But we take a look at 
what we can do from a lighting perspective or a movement 
perspective or a technology 
perspective, and we try to make 
our concerts into multimedia 
events with some kind of an 
emotional arc. ”
And at Sun God Festival, 
though OK Go may not have the 
sort of star power that Snoop 
Dogg does, their tendency for 
elaborate performances may let 
them steal the show.
— Kyle Somers
ASSOCIATE A&E EDITORHEADLINER
6. STRFKR
PHOTO USED WITH PERMISSION FROM POLYVINYL RECORDS PHOTO USED WITH PERMISSION FROM SLEEPING GIANT MUSICPHOTO COURTESY OF BILLBOARD
More info can be found at sgf.ucsd.edu/mapSizzler
Century 
WheelCentury 
Wheel
Twister10     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 30, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
Valid at  
Round Table Pizza UCSD Price Center, La Jolla • (858) 457-2060
Dine In and Carry Out Only
WEEKLY STUDENT SPECIALSdiscover the best kept secret on campus!
Monday Madness
$2 Tuesday
Pasta Wednesday
Thursday Bundle Deal
Flatbread Friday
Weekend Special50% off Any 2nd Large or X-Large Pizza
1-Topping Pizza Slice + Drink = $2  
Add Another Slice for Just $1.25
Free Garlic Parmesan Twists with Any Pasta
Large 1-Topping Pizza and Choice of 6 Garlic Parmesan Twists , 
6 Classic Wings or 8 Boneless Wings $20.99
$1 Off Flatbread & Drink  
Plus $2 Off Select Pitchers!
$1 Off Our Everyday Low Price Lunch Specials+ Headband  (You do want to see Snoop Dog, 
right?) 
+  Converse  (classically comfy)
+  Thrifted fanny pack  (Although the 
term is highly offensive to Australians, matronly 
accessories are the new black this year.)
+  Baseball hat  (Show off your obnoxious 
pride while preventing your head from developing a 
malignant skin cancer.)
+ A watch  (Time is a social construct, but anyone 
that’s out of time is out of mind.)
+ Sunglasses  (So nobody will see the midterm 
bags under your eyes.)WHA T TO WEAR:
+ Light-colored clothing  (This is not a stain-resistant 
environment. Don’t spend your post-Sun God Festival Monday 
morning hunting down a Tide to Go bleach pen.) 
+ Sandals  (Protect your phalanges. They don’t grow back.)
+  Skinny jeans  (Dancing just isn’t possible in these death 
traps.) 
+  Jacket  (This is the Sun God Festival, not the Arctic. Might 
want to get a refund for your easy three-step online degree in 
geography. De nada.)
+  Chunky jewelry  (You never know when someone will use 
your own adornments against you.)
+ Your retainer  (Your orthodontist will forgive you, but let’s be 
real: You haven’t worn it for the past month. Don’t tell him I said that!) WHA T NOT TO WEAR:
Compiled by Guardian Staff
 ILLUSTRATIONS BY SHERMAN ALINE AND COURTESY OF NEMO
PHOTOS COURTESY OF GABBY-GIRL ON FLICKR.COM,  MARTIN VARVASKY AND ARCADIA WATCHESWEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 30, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
FREE SCREENING & PANEL HOSTED BY UCONSENT
https://www.facebook.com/events/1443948445897988/Tuesday, 5/5/15 • 7:00pm - 10:00pm 
Price Center TheaterWha t Not to Bring:
Wha t to Bring: Time-Sensitive Drinks
+ Phon e (and phone charger because someone 
needs to have an obnoxious Snapchat barrage .)
+ Disposabl e camera  (If you borrow your 
uncle’s Nikon D4, chances are you’ll have to flee the 
country and find a wig.) 
+ Cellphone c ardholder  (Keep your friends 
close and your ID card closer.)
+ Chapstic k (Channel your inner Sasha Fierce 
with confidence knowing your lips are protected.)
+ Cash (There are vendors, but let’s be real: Save your money for 
something with nutritional value that won’t strip your credit card of 
its dignity.)
+ Instruments  (Okay, you’re a snake charmer, I believe you. 
But, please, leave your flute at home, or you’ll be sent home by 
security.) 
+ Pictures of Snoop Dogg  (Just because you printed out 
a Tumblr photoset does not mean Snoopie’s going to sign it.)
+ Your selfie stick  (Is it too much trouble to ask a nearby 
festival-goer for a photo? You might even make a friend or two, or a 
mortal enemy, in the process.) 
+ Your chihuahua (High chance of losing your best friend in 
the crowd — meaning, leave.) 
+ Backpack (This ain’t no Dora the Explorer, honey.)
+ Nintendo 3DS  (Sorry, but why would you want to Street -
pass when you could Bonkey Kong around?)
+ Drugs (To be blunt, no.)Got a hour ?
•	Berry-flavored liquor
•	Champagne
•	Basil leaves
Got a few minutes ?
•	Planter’s punch (in the face)
•	Rum
•	Lemon juice
•	Grenadine syrup
•	Fruit juice (Based on personal preference. But please, refrain 
from using Kool-Aid, cause that ain’t crunk)
Got about?
•	Fireball
•	Apple juicetry a Planter’s Punch! (in the face)
DRINK ILLUSTATIONS COURTESY OF 
                      MIENKIE, ZEIMUSU, AND OPENCLIPS12     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 30, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
As full-time knowledge seekers, 
students are seen as a cultured 
and active bunch. While we 
all, indeed, try to take advantage of 
events hosted by UCSD because they 
are often free and conveniently located, 
many of us are less knowledgeable 
when it comes to what the larger San 
Diego community has to offer. While 
the absence of a personal motor vehi -
cle — so vital for getting around SoCal 
— a limited budget or lack of time 
can discourage a potential explorer 
from discovering new local wonders, 
we still have a place that is an abso -
lute must-visit for anyone. All excus -
es are invalid! The UCSD Guardian 
now presents to all of our readers 
the Museum of Contemporary Art 
San Diego because “students should be learning outside the classroom, ” duh.
MCASD is a unique museum, not 
only because it serves as a showcase 
space for paintings, photographs and 
art installations, but also because it 
is used as a place for movie screen -
ings, parties with live music and 
food, lectures and even weddings. 
If museum-going has never been 
your ideal way of spending free time, 
consider planning your first visit to 
MCASD on the day of Thursday Night 
Thing. This event is only held three 
times a year but is well worth the wait, 
as it includes artist talks, live music, 
dancing and cocktails created by pro -
fessional mixologists. Guided tours of 
current exhibitions are also an impor -
tant part of TNT. Taking a tour is a per -
fect idea for beginner museumgoers, since understanding how and why art 
pieces are created is the key to appre -
ciating art. And, besides, even if you’re 
not all that into a recently opened 
exhibition, live music from local per -
formers and a cocktail (or two) should 
turn your night into a quality one.
If you got past the beginner stage 
a long time ago and have already lost 
track of all the museums you’ve been 
to, then MCASD has something for 
you, too. Sure, everyone knows the 
Museum of Contemporary Art encour -
ages young people like us to support 
both local and world-famous artists. 
But what many people don’t know is 
that it also promotes the creation and 
exhibition of our own art. If you always 
had that artistic potential and feel like 
San Diego is your inspiration, you’re in luck because this year MCASD orga -
nized a “25-and-Under Art Contest” 
dedicated to the theme “Our City, Our 
Time. ” To participate in the contest, all 
you need to do is take up to two photos 
of your San Diego-inspired work and 
submit them together with the online 
registration form on MCASD’s web -
site. Applications are accepted until 
May 8 at 11:59 p.m., so hurry up if 
you want the world to see your work, 
as well as a chance to win a $500 gift 
certificate to Blick Art Materials, a 
year-long MCASD X Membership and 
a curator-led tour of the exhibition.
If you are a professional museum 
fan, you might even want to upgrade 
yourself to a MCASD internship. 
While the deadline for summer intern -
ship applications has already passed, it is worth applying for the fall-winter 
internship term. Positions are open in 
a variety of departments: communica -
tions, grant writing, education, retail, 
curatorial and more. By working on 
individual projects, MCASD interns 
are given an opportunity to gain broad -
er professional experience, get aca -
demic credit and find something new 
that might push them into pursuing 
a career related to either the museum 
industry or visual arts in general. This 
makes MCASD internships a great 
way to start your professional path.
—    olga  golubkov a 
Senior staff writer
HOURS:
11 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily 
(closed Wednesday)LOCATION:
MCASD La Jolla 
700 Prospect St.
La Jolla, CA
MUSEUM    REVIEWPHOTO BYJESUS PACHECO/ GUARDIAN
MCASD   
MCASD Downtown:
1100 & 1001
Kettner Blvd. 
San Diego, CAPRICE:   
Age 25 and under free
(The museum is free for all 
on the third Thursday of every 
month from 5 to 7p.m.)       GENDERAL ADMISSION:  
Age 25 and under free
SENIORS: $5
STUDENTS 26 AND OVER (W/ ID): $5
      Still not convinced you should give 
MCASD a try? Well, how about that:
•	Both	museum	locations	are	open	on 	
the	weekends.
•	MCASD	La	Jolla	is	located	just	20 	
minutes	away	from	campus	(by	bus), 	
while	MCASD	Downtown	is	close	to	all 	
major	downtown	spots.
•	The	La	Jolla	location	has	the	Edwards 	
Garden	Gallery	with	a	fabulous	Insta -
gram-worthy	ocean	view.
•	MCASD	in	La	Jolla	also	has	the	X 	
Store	gift	shop	and	a	cafe.
WEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 30, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 13
Many recent films have at -
tempted to depict our 
generation’s rise and con -
quest. But of all of these, even Noah 
Bambauch’s critically acclaimed 
“While We’re Y oung, ” have failed 
due to a lack of understanding and, 
hence, an oversimplification of what 
today’s youth stand and care for. 
“Clouds of Sils Maria” does so 
not only successfully but with such 
accuracy and love that you would 
barely believe that anyone past 
their 20s wrote and directed it, let alone a 60-year-old French dude.
The film follows Maria Enders, 
played by Oscar-winner Juliette 
Binoche, an aging (but not really) 
actress who is still among the best 
but has trouble adjusting to the on -
slaught of young talent flooding the 
evolved industry. Binoche is unbe -
lievably magnetic in this role, seam -
lessly expressing high forms of 
grief, joy, frustration and insecurity. 
Maria had her first big break when 
she was 18 in a famous play titled 
“Maloja Snake, ” starring as a young woman who drives her much-older 
boss and lover to suicide. Twenty years 
later, a young and beloved director asks 
her to star in his adaptation of “Maloja 
Snake, ” except this time as the older 
character, whom she admires infi -
nitely less than the younger character 
who made her famous. Maria reluc -
tantly, and later regretfully, accepts.
She rehearses her scenes with her 
youthful personal assistant and close 
friend, Val, played convincingly by Kris -
ten Stewart. Stewart possesses incred -
ible chemistry with Binoche, and their 
characters’ relationship serves as a bea -
con of intimacy and honesty for Maria 
amidst what she perceives to be an in -
creasingly distant and dishonest world. 
The two share most of the film’s best 
scenes, including a hilarious one in 
which Val attempts to convince Maria 
of the integrity of superhero movies (in 
a way that one only wish they could), and Maria fails to hold back her bursts 
of laughter. The film contains many 
scenes like this that project the truth of 
their generational gap while also bridg -
ing it in beautifully perverse ways.
On the other side of the camera, 
director Olivier Assayas (“Something 
in the Air”) fades his scenes to black, 
re-creating the atmosphere of a cur -
tain dropping down at the end of an 
act in a play. In many ways, Assayas 
blends the classical with the modern, 
both technically and tonally, mirror -
ing the film’s blurring of the bound -
ary between today’s youth and adults.
The film’s only glaring flaw is the 
writing of Chloe Grace Moretz’s char -
acter, Jo-Ann, the young and admired 
actress hired to star opposite of Maria 
in her old part. Jo-Ann is meant to serve 
as the antithesis to Maria’s classical, un-
hip approach to both acting and life but 
ends up a few inches short of being a caricature of modern-day, train-wreck 
celebrities. Fortunately, Moretz holds 
the character together with a nice 
mix of poise and self-destructiveness.
Despite this, “Clouds of Sils Maria” 
floats high above most other films in the 
growing sub-genre of films that seek to 
paint portraits of the middle-aged and 
underaged generations. These often fail 
because they merely present the differ -
ences in usually overt and shallow ways 
that end up nearly mocking today’s 
youth. Why it excels is that it critiques 
us — through the lens of Maria, who 
ultimately ends up somewhere in-be -
tween — while also validating us and 
revealing our integrity. We thank this 
film for such a daring accomplishment. 
—    Jacky  to 
Senior staff writerDirected by  Olivier Assayas
Starring   Kristen Stewart,  Juliette Binoche, Chloe Grace Moretz
Rated R
Release Date April 10Assayas’ American debut is a beautiful portrayal of the 
clash and consolidation of today’s youth and adults.  cloud  sils  of  maria PHOTO USED WITH PERMISSION FROM A24 FILMS
FILM   REVIEW14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 30, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
CLASSIFIEDS$
Guar dian Classi/f_ieds ar e FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifieds
BIKES
Fuji D6 1.0 All Carbon Dura Ace Di2 TT Tri 
bike - $5500. Super light and reliable top 
of the line components priced at mid-
grade new prices. Dura Ace Di2 electron -
ic push-button shifting. Never dropped, 
never crashed, and kept indoors. A proven 
frame you can trust and know you are actu -
ally buying speed. Nice wheels. Matty Reed 
Signature Edition (signed on the seat tube). 
Listing ID: 142999587 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
59cm Tommasini Road Bike - $600. Made in 
Italy with Columbus tubing. Has the origi -
nal Tommasini frame, fork and Tommasini 
stamped Cinelli stem. It is a fourteen speed 
and has campagnolo cranks, headset, shift -
ers and front derailleur. The bike is used and 
does have some paint chips. This would 
be a terrific rider or you could restore it. 
Nice vintage Italian bike and would be 
great for around town, the beach, school 
or anywhere else. Listing ID: 142999584 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Beach Bike - $120. 26 in Beach Cruiser. 
Clean. Great. Coaster brake. Price is firm. 
Listing ID: 142999582 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
BOATS
Ocean Yachts 46 Super Sport - $69999. 
This much-sought-after 32’ Cummins diesel 
powered Super Sport will not last long. She 
is in very excellent condition and priced 
right. Listing ID: 143651509 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
36’ Mariner Sloop 1980 - $49900. The 
Mariner 36 has a reputation for being well 
constructed and a good sailing vessel. She has a fiberglass hull construction with very 
attractive lines, an excellent displacement 
and a comfortable interior. This beauty will 
make an excellent sailing vessel around the 
bay, to Catalina and Mexico, and a great 
live aboard or condo on the water as well. 
Listing ID: 143651508 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
20’ Aluminum Willie Boat - $25000. This 
boat is the ultimate workhorse; designed 
for hauling, pushing and/or towing. Perfect 
for jobs around the docks and with its 
extra wide frame, it’s also an ideal netting 
and fishing boat. Listing ID: 143651506 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
AUTO
1984 Bitter SC - $3900. 1984 bitter sport -
coupe. Only 488. Made in Germany. Must 
sell. Hand stitched leather interior. Needs 
clear coat, minor body work and tune up. 
Listing ID: 143643977 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
2011 Nissan XTERRA X 4D Sport Utility- 
$16995. AM/FM CD Player w/6 Speakers, 
Air Conditioning, Rear window defroster, 
Power steering, Power windows, Remote 
keyless entry, Speed-sensing steering, 
Traction control, 4-Wheel Disc Brakes, ABS 
brakes, Anti-whiplash front head restraints, 
Dual front impact airbags, Dual front side 
impact airbags, Front anti-roll. Listing ID: 
143641534 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
2012 Fiat 500 Sport 2D Hatchback - 
$13995. 7 Speakers, AM/FM Radio, CD 
player, MP3 decoder, Radio data system, 
Air Conditioning, Rear window defroster, 
Power steering, Power windows, Remote 
keyless entry, Steering wheel mounted 
audio controls, Traction control, 4-Wheel 
t
your visi on,
our missi on.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom a pparel to 
promote your student 
organiza tion with Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
.com/ucsdguardian
asgraphicstudioApply to
asgraphicstudio@ucsd.edu
*include resume & design samples/ portfolio
graphic
artistswantedgraphic
artistswantedComplete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies 
on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.ukLevel: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
Level:
12
34Level:
12
34Level: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
SUDOKU
Disc Brakes, ABS brakes, Anti-whiplash front 
head restraints, Dual front im. Listing ID: 
143635040 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
www.ucsdguardian.org/advertisingSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 30, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 15
LOST
-REWARD-
follow@ucsdasce
@asgraphicstudio
@tritonoutfi tter
#sgfbabies
to find an instant wi nner!
MORE I NFO FOUND AT
sgf.ucsd.ed u/sgfbabi esLioness baby s un god with tan fur.
Answers to the name of “J ordan”. 
Weighs approx. 2 oz. - 4 years  old.
Loves musi c and helping others .
Last seen in Pri ce Center E ast. 
Registration for SPRING Qtr is NOW open!
Register online at 
as.ucsd.edu/saferides
A.S. Safe Rides allows registered undergraduate 
stude nts to get 3 FREE rides per quarter.
Stude nts must register at least 24 hours
prior  to their first ride. A.S. Safe Rides 
asucsd asucsd
Both the women and men’s 
teams representing the 
junior varsity eight crew 
boats were extremely 
successful in this past weekend’s 
Western Intercollegiate Rowing 
Association Championships held at 
Lake Natoma, California. The men’s 
team won its grand final, while the 
women’s team was the runner-up in 
its final race, leading a strong UCSD 
performance overall. Elsewhere, the 
men’s varsity eight and novice eight 
put out respectable performances 
as the men’s teams both took sixth 
place, while the women’s teams 
managed two third-place finishes 
in the varsity eight and varsity        
four, respectively.
     It was a very impressive match 
for the women’s teams as they 
placed highly among their com -
petitors after qualifying three boats 
for the grand final on Saturday. In 
the varsity eight, the contingent of 
senior coxswain Catherine Shef -
fler, senior Kelly Peterson, fresh -man Jessica Levesque, freshman 
Catherine Mosher, junior Nicole 
Hammonds, sophomore Amber 
Harris, sophomore Jordan Levy, 
freshman Olivia Koyama and junior 
Madison Kohlenberger pushed hard 
to take an impressive third place 
with a time of 7 minutes and 11.10 
seconds. They were narrowly edged 
out by a strong UC Santa Barbara 
unit who managed a 7:05.4 time 
and second-place Humboldt State.
     The varsity four crew consisting 
of freshman Tori Wong, sopho -
more Jennifer Dutton, sophomore 
Lauren Iannetta, senior Kimberly 
McCune and senior Claire Dues -
dieker also took home third place 
with a time of 8:03.5, only bested 
by Western Washington University 
in first place and Humboldt State 
again in second.
     It was the JV eight, however, 
who stole the show. The crew of 
coxswain freshman Juliana Burns, 
junior Shruti Kamath, freshman 
Janell Ingersoll, senior Emma Pur -cell, senior Natalia Royal, sopho -
more Carolyn Montellato, senior 
Christina Nilles, senior Nicole 
Arkosy and freshman Juliane Smith 
finished in second place with a time 
of 7:35.8, barely beaten by UCSB, 
which finished with a time of 7:34.7.
     “This was one of the best team 
performances we’ve had since 
Coach Dale and I started coach -
ing the program, ” UCSD Head 
Coach Colin Truex told the UCSD 
Athletics Department. “It was an 
awesome performance by all boats 
in the most important race of the 
season to date. ” 
     The men’s side qualified four 
boats for the grand final on Sunday, 
with both the varsity and novice 
eight boats finishing in sixth place 
in their grand finals. In the varsity 
eight, the team of senior coxswain 
Sean Dougherty, junior Scott Ken -
nedy, sophomore Matt Thalken, 
freshman Kevin Chang, junior An -
ton Hedayat, junior Daniel Mahan, 
freshman Gabriel Lane, sophomore Andy Marshall and sophomore CD 
Dowling placed sixth with a time 
of 6:29.5, while UC Irvine won the 
race with a time of 6:12.5. 
     The novice eight, featuring 
freshman coxswain Lily Ouyang, 
freshmen Chaz Woxland, William 
Liu, Tucker Cecil, Elijah Danielson, 
Michael Landheer, Tyler Bailey, An -
thony Chivetta and Jorge Arteaga 
also took sixth place with a time of 
6:42.2, with Santa Clara University 
winning with a time of 6:17.2.
     The best result of the meet came  
from the men’s JV eight who took 
first place with a time of 6:18.8. The 
team consisting of sophomore cox -
swain Drake Lem, freshman Sean 
Callaghan, sophomore Alec Petty, 
freshman Jackson Lytle, freshman 
Bryan Brennan, freshman Frank 
Chang, freshman Sam Merrill-
Palethorpe, freshman Hank Wong 
and sophomore Jon Baker powered 
through to get the win. In the same 
race, the men’s JV eight “B” boat, 
or “3V , ” of freshman coxswain Isa Batki, sophomore Carson West, 
sophomore Ian Skelton, sophomore 
Eric Simmons, sophomore Skylar 
Waidhofer, junior Robert Faris, 
sophomore Blake Branine, fresh -
man Nick Baltar and sophomore 
Tynan Rodger placed fourth with a 
time of 6:36.2.
     “Our JV and 3V showed our 
depth as a program, winning and 
taking fourth in the same grand 
final, ” UCSD Head Coach Zach 
Johnson said. “We were able to get 
all boats to the finals … I’m really 
proud of our team. ”
     The women are back in action on 
May 8 as they travel to Philadelphia 
for the Dad Vail Championships. 
The men return to competition on 
May 16 as they travel to Rancho 
Corvado, California for the Western 
Sprint Championships.
CONT ACT Liam Leahy
lleahy@ucsd.edu
CREW
Men and Women Find Grand Final Success  
Triton rowers get several top-three finishes in a performance for the ages.
by Liam Leahy  Staff Writer  // Photos courtesy of  UCSD AthleticsStaying on Top of 
the WWPASPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
MARCUS THUILLIER
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
16 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 30, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
WOMEN'S  W A TER  POLO
BY GURKIRAT SINGH SENIOR STAFF WRITER
PHOTO BY  ALWIN SZETO
After losing the final game of its regular season, the UCSD women’s water 
polo team returned to its winning ways as the Tritons went on to secure 
the Western Water Polo Association Championship title, defeating Cal 
State Monterey Bay on Saturday and Cal State East Bay on Sunday at 
SPIRE Institute. This is the third consecutive WWPA title for UCSD, as 
well as the fourth total in the past five years. 
The No. 1 seed UCSD squad took down the No. 3 seed Cal State Monterey Bay 12–8 
in the semifinals and went on to defeat the No. 4 seed Cal State East Bay 10–8 in a 
rematch of last year’s championship game. 
On Saturday, the Tritons started out the match against the Otters in a confident man -
ner, ending the first quarter with a score of 3–0 in their favor. Attackers senior Jolene 
Guiliana, sophomore Lani Tittle and sophomore center Lauren Boyer all contributed to 
the scoreboard in the first quarter while junior goalie Courtney Miller shut out the Otters. 
The Tritons were able to carry this confidence forward as they ended the first half with a 
score of 4–3. 
In the second half of the game, the Tritons were able to pull away in the third quarter 
when Boyer completed her hat trick. Although the Otters attempted to mount a comeback 
in the game, the Tritons successfully maintained their lead, with another completed hat 
trick by Guiliana. The Tritons finished with a comfortable lead and kept Cal State Monterey 
Bay in check in the final two minutes of the game that ended at 12–8 in favor of the Tritons. 
While their stellar offense led them to victory, the Tritons were also able to put on a de -
fensive show as Miller was able to make six saves in the course of the game. Boyer went on 
to draw four of the Triton’s five penalty shots, setting a new personal career high. Guiliana 
also contributed a career-high seven steals while also dishing out three assists to top that. 
“The key to today was our inside game, ” head coach Brad Kreutzkamp told the UCSD 
Athletics Department. “We were able to get the ball in at two meters, draw ejections, get 
penalty shots and convert them. Boyer and Guiliana were outstanding today. … They both 
answered the call when we needed it. ” 
On Sunday, the Tritons went head-to-head with last year’s rivals, the East Bay Pioneers, 
for not only the WWPA Championship title but also an automatic conference bid into the 
NCAA Women’s Water Polo Championship. 
Boyer started off the match with an early point, but the Pioneers retaliated with two 
back-to-back points, giving them an early 2–1 lead. This, however, would be the only 
lead for the Pioneers in the game. 
Junior attacker Laurel Kistler evened the score shortly after, and she was followed by a 
goal from Guiliana to end the first quarter, putting the blue and gold back on top at 3–2. 
Guiliana started off the second quarter in similar fashion and scored her second goal of the game in the early minutes of the quarter. Tittle followed her teammate’s lead and 
scored her own first goal of the game. The Pioneers finally responded with a goal toward 
the end of the first half from junior two-meter player Taylor Cross when she managed to 
complete a hat trick in the first half. Despite Cross’ feat, the Tritons still led with 5–3 at 
the end of the half.
“I think the turning point came when we got a couple of quick, solid counterattack 
goals to start the third quarter, ” Guiliana told the UCSD Athletics Department. “Court -
ney [Miller] threw some great passes, and we were able to convert. ”
The Tritons broke away in the third quarter as they outscored the Pioneers in this 
single quarter by 5–1. Guiliana made the first goal of the third quarter which also led 
her to complete her hat trick at this point. Junior attacker Julia Kirkland also stepped up 
and was able to score her first goal not long after that. The third quarter was a shining 
moment for Tittle: She scored two goals to complete her hat trick before the Pioneers 
were able to squeeze in their only point of the quarter. Not to be outdone, Tittle scored 
again in the final minute of the third quarter — her third goal of the quarter and fourth 
of the match — giving the Tritons a comfortable 10–4 advantage. 
The Tritons’ offense was kept in check in the fourth quarter as they ended up going scoreless 
while Cal State East Bay managed to score four goals. The Pioneers were getting ready to rally 
back into the game, but the Tritons stayed steadfast and were able to hold out and win the 
game with a final score of 10–8. Miller ended the day with seven saves for UCSD.
This win marked the third consecutive WWPA title for UCSD, making it the second-
longest streak in WWPA history, behind the five-straight crowns held by Loyola Mary -
mount University from the 2001–05 seasons. 
Guiliana, Boyer, and Miller were all awarded first-team rank selections, while Tittle was 
elected to the second team. On top of that induction, Miller was also recently announced 
as the WWPA Player of the Y ear. Guiliana was also further honored by being named the 
Most Valuable Player of the tournament and WWPA Player of the Week.
“Winning conference is a good accomplishment because we get the chance to extend 
our season and play into the NCAA tournament, ” Miller said. “This year definitely felt dif -
ferent than two years ago because the teams in our conference have changed significantly, 
and back then, we were viewed as underdogs. I think this season was a lot more successful 
than we showed on paper. We’ve had a lot of close games against good opponents. … I 
think we are setting ourselves up to be an even better team in the future. ”
The Tritons will next host an NCAA Championship play-in game against Whittier 
College on Saturday, May 2. If successful, they will then look for success in the upcom -
ing NCAA championship at Stanford University that will take place on Friday, May 8, 
until Sunday, May 10.Led by senior Jolene Guiliana, UCSD dominates the competition at WWPA Championships.
This Saturday, an unmovable ob -
ject will meet an unstoppable force. 
There has been no bigger fight 
since Ali-Frazier III in 1975. Floyd 
Mayweather, Jr. vs. Manny Pacquiao 
— the fight of our generation — 
no, the fight of the century. Buckle 
your seat belts because there are no 
breaks on the hype train.
    But it should be bigger than this. 
Forget fight of the century — six 
years ago, this would have been 
fight of the millennium, easily. The 
fact that Mayweather-Pacquiao took 
this long shows everything that is 
wrong with boxing today. Since the 
talks began, both men have entered 
their late 30s. Pacquiao has suffered 
two painful losses. The dude also 
became a congressman in the Phil -ippines, so you know his head isn't 
solely in the game.
    As for Mayweather, he's still 
undefeated. He's still the greatest 
defensive fighter in boxing's history. 
And he's still a dick. But he's not 
the Mayweather that dethroned 
Oscar De La Hoya last decade.
    Despite this, I and many other 
people are going to drop the insane 
amount of $100 for this pay-per-
view. Like seriously, Mayweather 
vs. Pacquiao — take my money 
now. After several years of waiting, 
you no longer entirely care about 
who actually wins; the only thing 
that matters is that this is finally 
happening. And Vegas is going to 
get rocked: This might be the single 
largest economic event since the 
city's inception.
    It's estimated that over $3 mil -
lion are going to purchase this event. If the fight goes 12 rounds, 
Mayweather will likely earn $5 mil -
lion per minute. The sponsors will 
be paying $13.5 million, and Bob 
Arum confirmed a live gate of $72 
million. A lot of very rich people 
are about to get even richer. We'll 
be paying them. Such is life.
    But you can't pass up the chance 
of possibly seeing Mayweather get 
it. I've got my money on “Money, ” 
but I'd be more than happy to lose 
that bet. He’s a screwed up man, 
plain and simple. Just look at his 
history with domestic violence. 
When ESPN pressed him on his 
abusive past, he ducked that ques -
tion the same way he's been duck -
ing Pacquiao for years.
    “When it's all said and done, only 
God can judge. But I don't want 
people to miss this fight … May 2. 
Be there. ”    Personally, I can't wait for the day 
God judges him, but I'd be more 
than happy to see Pacquiao do so 
first. Besides, nobody who's had 
both Triple H and Justin Bieber in 
their corner deserves to win. Now 
there's an Axis of Evil if there ever 
was one.
    This fight is not just a fight: it's 
a freaking morality play. Manny is 
the people's champion. He couldn't 
have said it any better: “It's time for 
Floyd to lose. ” If he wins, it's not 
just Pacman's loss — it's ours.
    I don't mean this in just a moral 
sense: A Mayweather victory will 
be boring as sin. A good example 
of this was his fight with Shane 
Mosley. That was five years ago, 
and yet I vividly remember the first 
two rounds. Mayweather started 
off weak in round one, and then 
in the second, Mosley rocked him with a series of rights. Money had 
practically been sent to his knees. 
For the first time in a long time, it 
looked like the streak would break. 
The crowd on TV went wild with 
Mosley chants. At the party I was 
at, everyone went insane. Some girl 
shouted over their drunken hys -
teria: “Get him, Shane! Get him!” 
They were like sharks who smelled 
blood in the water.
    And then from there, it was busi -
ness as usual. Mosley gassed, allow -
ing Mayweather to slowly chip away 
for points. Ten forgettable rounds 
later, guess who won by an unre -
markable, unanimous decision?
    God bless you, Manny Pacquiao. 
The odds are stacked against you, 
but win or lose, you'll always be the 
better man.COLUMN: THIS WEEK  IN  SPORTS
Money Mayweather Will Finally Fight Against Manny Pacquiao
It’s the fight of the century, and it’s more than just boxing: a fight between good and evil will take place in Las Vegas on Saturday, May 2.
B y Jordan  utley-thomson
STAFF writer
readers can contact
Jordan  Utley-Thomson  jutleyth@ucsd.edu Track and Field
Baseball
Track and Field
Baseball
Women’s Water Polo     4/30
     4/30
     5/1
     5/1
     5/2AT CCAA Championships
AT Cal State Los Angeles
AT CCAA Championships
AT Cal State Los Angeles
VS Whittier College
Readers can contact GURKIRAT SINGH at 
GSINGH@UCSD.EDU