VOLUME 49, ISSUE 1   THURSDA Y , SEPTEMBER 24, 2015  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
FANS RAVE: 
CIRCA WAVES
The UCSD Guardian sits 
down backstage with 
indie-rock band Circa 
Waves to talk genre, 
hometowns and musical 
influences ahead of their 
San Diego performance 
at The Loft.
PA N I C !  AT  T H E   C L O C K
BACK  IN  ACTIONStudent arrestED  FOR  CLOCK
Soccer  opens  CCAA  scheduleOPINION,  P age   4
Sports,  P age  12
THURSDAY 
H 84 L 69FRIDAY 
H 86 L 70
SATURDAY
H 85 L 70SUNDAY
H 84 L 69
FORECAST
VERBATIM
PRO TIP: THERE’S NO POINT 
IN EDITING OUT THE RED 
CUPS IN YOUR PHOTOS.
EMPLOYERS LIKE TO SEE 
PROOF THAT YOU POSSESS 
THE SOCIAL SKILLS TO 
FREQUENT NETWORKING 
EVENTS. WHAT BETTER 
WAY TO SHOW THEM THAN 
TO FEATURE PICTURES OF 
YOURSELF CHUGGING A KEG 
ON YOUR PROFILE?”
-HOW-TO-GURU
OPINION , PAGE 4
INSIDE
C.H.E. SAVED?  ............ 4
RESTAURANT WEEK  ...7
15+1 FRESH TIPS ....... 9
CALENDAR .................10
M. WATER POLO ....... 12“A&E,  P AGE  6
PHOTO COURTESY OF  CONTACTMUSIC.COM
This year’s UCSD freshman class 
experienced a significant increase 
in the number of out-of-state and 
international students, compared to 
numbers from the previous year, 
according to data released in June. 
This nonresident growth follows a 
system-wide trend that has proven 
to be controversial as Californians 
worry about their own spots in the 
UC system. 
According to the UC system’s 
preliminary headcount of intended 
freshman, nonresidents comprise 
about 33.3 percent of the incoming 
freshman body at UCSD, up from 
27.4 percent last year. UC Irvine and UC Davis also experienced surges 
in the proportion of nonresidents, 
from 20.3 percent to 27.1 percent 
and 17.1 percent to 26 percent, 
respectively.
The enrollment of out-of-state 
and international students has been 
used as a tool to counteract the 
loss of public funding granted to 
the school by state legislators, as 
evident in a 2010 UC Commission 
report recommending that “the 
[University of California] allow 
campuses to increase the number of 
undergraduate nonresident students 
… to sustain current instructional 
capacity and quality. ” Nonresidents 
pay an extra $24,024 on top of the 
$12,200 tuition that Californians 
pay, according to the information 
on the University of California admissions site.
The Great Recession in 2007 
prompted the most recent iteration 
of the UC system’s funding cuts 
when state budgets crumpled. This 
was coupled with a 32-percent 
increase to in-state tuition in 2009.
Nathan Bostrom, the University 
of California’s Chief Financial 
Officer, explained to sources that 
increasing nonresident enrollment, 
and by extension increasing tuition 
revenue, has been viewed by the 
administration as a way to offset the 
loss of funding.
“Nonresident enrollment is one 
revenue source to help with the 
shortfall,” Bostrom told the San 
Francisco Chronicle last month.WELCOME WEEK
Thurgood Marshall College won the Golden Shoe at the annual UnOlympics at RIMAC Field on Tuesday.
Photo by Jonathan Gao /UCSD Guardian.
Administration Proposes to 
Fund C.H.E. Cafe Repairs
UCSD administrators and the C.H.E. Cafe recently 
came to an agreed upon resolution regarding the future 
of the facility. After meeting with collective representa -
tives earlier this month, Chancellor Pradeep Khosla 
rescinded the university’s threat of eviction and instead 
proposed allocating school funding for several necessary 
facility repairs. 
The two parties reached an agreement after nego -
tiations with the C.H.E. passed from Vice Chancellor of 
Student Affairs Juan Gonzalez to Khosla and includes 
funds for four improvements to the cafe building. 
These include a new fire suppression sprinkler system, 
a fire alarm pull system, tempered glass windows and a 
“travel/exit path evaluation,” all of which are to be paid 
for by UCSD.
Past negotiations between the C.H.E. cafe collective 
and university administration failed to reach any reso -
lution. An email between collective member and Muir 
College senior Raquel Calderon and Executive Assistant to Vice Chancellor Gonzalez Sean Selvey showed the 
friction between collective members and administrative 
officials. 
“C.H.E. collective members have met with the vice 
chancellor before, and meetings were unproductive. 
Unless Vice Chancellor Gonzalez is planning to tell us in 
this meeting about how and when he is going to stop the 
eviction, we decline the offer to meet, ” Calderon said in 
an email to Selvey in June. “If we have to wait to speak to 
Chancellor Khosla, we will. ”
In July, many members of the C.H.E. Cafe considered 
the inclusion of Chancellor Khosla into negotiations 
the turning point in the fate of the historic cafe and 
music venue. Since the initial meeting with Khosla, the 
threat of eviction has been rescinded, allowing for bet -
ter negotiations with Gonzalez. Subsequent meetings 
regarding repairs to the C.H.E. Cafe have been directed 
to Gonzalez.
C.H.E. Cafe supporters continued to share their   B y  SHERMAN ALINE    CONTRIBUTING WRITER 
Nonresident Enrollment Rises at UC Campuses
Over 25 percent of the students at UCSD, UC Irvine and UC Davis are from out of state.
BY    J o s h  L e f l e r
Contributing WriterSee CHE, page 3
See  NONRESIDENT , page 3CAMPUSUC Regents 
Appeal SD 
Superior 
Court Ruling SAN DIEGO
Judge Joel Pressman ruled 
that university officials 
mishandled a campus sexual 
assault lawsuit this past July.
BY   A n d r e w  C h a o
Staff Writer
See LAWSUIT , page 3The UC Board of Regents appealed 
San Diego Superior Court Judge Joel 
Pressman’s ruling earlier this month 
after the judge ruled that UCSD 
mishandled a sexual assault case this 
past summer. 
The case involved two UCSD 
undergraduate students, referred to 
as John Doe and Jane Roe in court 
documents. Roe filed a sexual assault 
claim against Doe in June 2014 and a 
Student Conduct Review Panel initially 
ruled that Doe receive academic 
suspension for one quarter. After 
Doe appealed the decision, university 
provosts extended the term of his 
suspension to five  quarters.
Pressman reversed the school’s 
suspension on the grounds that 
the university did not handle the 
lawsuit in a fair manner and that 
no explanation was given as to why 
Doe’s suspension was increased after 
sending in an appeal. 
“While the Court respects 
the university’s determination to 
address sexual abuse and violence 
on its campus, after reviewing the 
Administrative Record, the Court 
finds that in this particularly case, the 
hearing against petitioner was unfair, ” 
Pressman said at the July hearing.
The pair had consensual sex on 
the night of Jan. 31, according to 
the lawsuit. The next morning, Doe 
made unwanted sexual advancement 
towards Roe but stopped after hearing 
her protests. On Feb. 2, the two again 
had consensual sex in her apartment. 
Four months later, Roe reported 
the Feb. 1 incident to the UCSD Office 
for the Prevention of Discrimination 
and Harassment. Following Roe’s 
report, UCSD investigators found Doe 
to be in violation of sexual misconduct.
Pressman’s ruling stems from the 
fact that Doe’s capacity to challenge 
his accuser was limited. Pressman 
stated that cross-examination was 
crucial in this instance and that 
Doe was only able to ask nine of 32 
questions in his defense. 
Moreover, Pressman stated that 
the investigators’ findings were not 
supported by substantial evidence that 
the sexual activity was not consensual.
Doe’s lawyer Mark Hathaway told 
the San Diego Union Tribune that he 
was unsurprised by the UC Regents 
decision to appeal Pressman’s ruling. 
“I know there are significant 
legal issues that were raised in Judge 
Pressman’s decision that would 
apply statewide, ” Hathaway said. “It’s 
not surprising they would want to 
appeal it. ”
Hathaway added that his 
growing caseload regarding sexual 
assault among college students is 
representative of a shift toward more UC SYSTEM2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , SEPTEMBER 24, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
AVERAGE CAT By Christina Carlson
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and 
Thursdays during the academic year by UCSD  students 
and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this 
newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, 
without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2014, all 
rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible 
for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The 
views expressed herein do not necessarily represent 
the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of 
California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is 
funded by advertising. Lauren Koa was here.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035
#wherewillyougo
Discover where you’ll study 
abroad at usac.unr.edu .Your Gateway to the WorldUSAC@ucsdguardianBusiness Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Marketing Director
Laura Chow
Associate Marketing Director
Peter McInnis
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Vincent Pham
Rosina Garcia
Tina Butoiu
Kriti Sarin
Jacky To
Cassia Pollock 
Marcus Thuillier
Allison Kubo
Kyle Somers
Karly Nisson
Brittney Lu
Olga Golubkova
Jonathan Gao
Megan Lee
Joselynn Ordaz
Sherman Aline
Elyse Yang
Christina Carlson
Jennifer GrundmanEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
 
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
Associate Features Editor
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Sherman Aline
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim
Editorial Assistants
Sage Schubert Christian, Katie Potts
tyour vision, our mission.
The Associated Students StoreContact madetoorder@ucsd.edu
for more info.Create custom apparel to promote your
student organization with Triton Outfitter's
new Made TO Order  program!Researchers at the UCSD 
nanoengineering department 
recently created fish-shaped 
microrobots using original 
3-D-printing technology. Professors 
Shaochen Chen and Joseph Wang 
of the UCSD nanoengineering 
department led the study, which was 
published in the journal Advanced                         
Materials last month.
Nanoengineering Ph.D. student 
and research team member Wei 
Zhu explained the applications of 
this technology and why it was 
important in a press statement.
“We have developed an entirely 
new method to engineer nature-
inspired microscopic swimmers that 
have complex geometric structures 
and are smaller than the width of 
a human hair. With this method, 
we can easily integrate different 
functions inside these tiny robotic 
swimmers for a broad spectrum of 
applications, ” Zhu said.  
These fish-shaped microrobots could potentially lead to a new 
production of microrobots with a 
diverse range of abilities including, 
but not limited to, detoxification, 
sensing, directed drug delivery and 
potentially harmful environmental 
impacts caused by toxic waste.
The researchers created the 
microrobots through microscale 
continuous optical printing, a unique 
technology that allows multiple 
layers of useful nanoparticles in a 
design — a previously-unavailable 
function. The technology used to 
create these microrobots was the 
first of  its kind and has several 
advantages over previous versions.
Jinxing Li, a nanoengineering 
Ph.D student in Wang’s research 
group, explained that this 
function facilitated the team’s 
research and has potential to                                          
improve surgical technology.
“This method has made it easier 
for us to test different designs 
for these microrobots and to test 
different nanoparticles to insert new 
functional elements into these tiny 
structures. It’s my personal hope to 
further this research to eventually develop surgical microrobots that 
operate more safely and with more 
precision, ” Li said.  
The microrobots were able to 
swim efficiently because they were 
chemically powered by hydrogen 
peroxide and magnetically 
controlled, which was made 
possible by using the 3-D-printing 
technology. Particles, such as 
platinum nanoparticles, were 
inserted in the tails and magnetic 
iron oxide was inserted in the 
heads, allowing the microrobots to 
move forward and be controlled             
with magnets.
Furthermore, the scientists 
conducted an experiment by 
i m p l a n t i n g p o l y d i a c e t y l i n e 
in the bodies  of the microfish. 
Polydiacetyline is a powerful 
particle able to capture harmful 
toxins, such as the pore-forming 
toxins found in bee venom. In this 
experiment, the microrobots glowed 
red as the polydiacetyline bound 
to the toxins. The scientists found 
that the swimming abilities of the 
fish-shaped microrobots, combined 
with polydiacetyline, allowed them to remove toxins from solutions.
Zhu explained that the results of 
the experiment provided researchers 
with knowledge about the multiple 
functions of the microfish. 
“The neat thing about this 
experiment is that it shows how 
the microfish can doubly serve as 
detoxification systems and as toxin 
sensors, ” Zhu said.
However, the researchers say that 
microfish are only the beginning 
of a new era of microrobots that 
could someday be used to perform 
greater functions. In fact, they could 
one day deliver targeted medicinal 
packages in a human bloodstream. 
They may also one day execute 
microscopic surgeries and take 
many forms, according to Zhu.
“With our 3-D-printing 
technology, we are not limited to 
just fish shapes. We can rapidly 
build microrobots inspired by other 
biological organisms such as birds, ” 
Zhu said.SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
The chemically powered miniature robots are shaped like fish and use magnets to “swim” forward and capture toxins.
BY   O m k a r  M a h a j a n
Staff Writer
Omkar Mahajan  omahajan@ucsd.edu readers can contactResearchers Develop Microbots With 3-D-Printing Technology
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGsee more atSince 2007, the proportion of 
nonresidents in the University 
of California student body has 
grown from 2 percent to nearly 30 
percent. The increasing number of 
nonresidents has left Californians 
concerned about their own level 
of access to the UC system, as 
residents must now compete with 
fiscally appealing nonresident 
undergraduates. 
Rohini Ashok, a San Jose, 
Californian mother, expressed her 
dissatisfaction with the UC system’s 
tendency to admit nonresidents by 
creating a petition called “UC for 
Californians. ”
“It feels like we’re being sold out, or the kids are being sold out, ” 
Ashok told the Oakland Tribune. 
UCLA and UC Berkeley, the two 
largest schools in the UC system, 
have already imposed caps on 
the proportion of nonresidents in 
future incoming-freshman classes. 
The nonresident population at the 
two universities is now fixed at 
around 30 percent of the student 
body. As part of the deal, however, 
the student body also remains fixed, 
meaning a cap has effectively been 
placed on in-state spots as well. 
UC President Janet Napolitano 
defended the cap by explaining that 
nonresidents helped subsidize the 
education of Californian residents, 
and thus a cap on one meant a cap 
on the other.“In the past, we have admitted 
more California residents than we 
were funded for, ” Napolitano said 
in a budget hearing in March. “We 
are not in a position to do that in 
the future. ”
The UC administration blames 
state law-makers for the enrollment 
debacle, who have butted heads 
with UC President Janet Napolitano 
in the past over the lack of funding. 
Bostrom told the Chronicle he 
seconded Napolitano’s statement.
“We’ d love to add more California 
students, ” Brostrom said. “But we 
need to get funding from the state 
to do that. ” 
Alternatives to nonresident 
admissions have been explored, 
including last year’s highly-controversial tuition-hike proposal, 
which would have seen in-state 
tuition increase 5 percent annually 
through 2019.
As the nation continues to 
recover from the Great Recession, 
future plans are in the legislative 
pipeline to begin reallocating 
funds to the UC system: the State 
Legislature intends to ease the UC 
system’s funding woes slightly by 
planning to grant an extra $25 
million to the UC system if it 
manages to enroll an extra 5,000 
Californian undergraduates for the 
2016-17 school year.
Future investments requires 
cooperation between the two 
parties, according to California 
State Assemblymember Kevin McCarty (D-Sacramento). 
“We need to know this is a 
partnership with the state of 
California and the UC system so 
we can focus on providing more 
resources, ” McCarty said during 
the assembly hearing when this 
deal was first proposed. 
The proportion of Latino 
students from California continues 
to rise to 30.2 percent of the ethnic 
makeup of this year’s freshman 
class, up from 29.8 percent last 
year. Blacks, however, remain at 4.1 
percent system-wide, with UCSD 
having the lowest proportion at 1.9 
percent.aggressive attempts to combat 
sexual assault at universities. He 
explained the the legal process is 
inconsistent across campuses, but 
generally favor the accusers over the accused, regardless of whether or 
not they committed a crime.
“Sometimes there’s [sic]
no hearings, sometimes there’s a 
hearing, ” Hathaway said. “I don’t 
think any college, and certainly not 
the University of California, based on Judge Pressman’s ruling, has 
gotten it right yet. Some do a better 
job than others, but the deck right 
now is stacked against someone who 
is accused. It’s very difficult to prove 
yourself innocent. ”
According to Hathaway, one reason for the shift is because of 
a Department of Education letter 
sent to universities in 2011 that 
encouraged them to thoroughly 
investigate sexual violence claims or 
risk losing federal funding. 
Although the appeal by the UC Regents is still being processed, Doe 
has been allowed to continue his 
studies in the fall.NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , SEPTEMBER 24, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3Collective Members Intend to Expand Services by Providing Students With Study Areas and Academic Resources
concerns since an eviction notice was 
served to the venue in March. The col -
lective members credit their ability to 
reach an agreement with the adminis -
tration to the relentless support of the 
surrounding community that partici -
pated in and promoted events held by 
the C.H.E. 
“A  l o u d  a n d  o v e r w h e l m i n g  m e s -
sage of ‘Save the C.H.E’ from current 
students, alumni and community 
members, ” came in various forms, the C.H.E. Cafe said in a statement 
to the UCSD Guardian. It included 
a “record-breaking 24/7 occupation 
of the threatened space lasting 120 
days, artist and alumni boycotts of 
the university, marches [and] ral -
lies. ” 
With more grassroots attention, 
more media attention came, too. 
The Save Our Heritage Organization 
included the C.H.E. Cafe on its 2015 
Most Endangered List of Historical 
Resources based on its cultural impor -
tance to the surrounding community.  “One of those beloved, old hang -
outs at UCSD that devoted students 
and alumni will always want to revis -
it, ” the organization said on its web -
site, referring to the C.H.E. Cafe. “It 
may be the last remnant of 1960s 
counterculture on this campus and a 
symbol of free speech served up with 
an earthy menu. ”
Associate Chancellor and Khosla’s 
Chief of Staff Clare Kristofco recipro -
cated the positive attitude regarding 
progress made toward repairing the 
C.H.E. “The discussions have been pro -
ductive and we remain optimistic that 
we will be able to address the fire and 
life safety upgrades at the C.H.E. Cafe, ” 
Kristofco told the Guardian.
Collective members are currently 
working with a general contractor and 
an architect to develop a report on 
what updates should be made to the 
building and determine costs.
“The administration has commu -
nicated the value they see in the col -
lective and the space and are working 
with us to make sure the two exist for future students, ” C.H.E. representa -
tives said.
Since the end of the occupation of 
the C.H.E. cafe, collective members 
are looking to expand the role of the 
collective in the campus community. 
Aside from hosting concerts, the col -
lective has started providing cheaper 
or free vegan meals and hopes to 
provide study spaces for students in 
the future.▶ CHE,  from page 1
Hathaway: Recently Enacted Sexual Assault Policies at Universities Favor Students Who File Complaints  
▶ LAWSUIT,  from page 1
Napolitano Capped Out-Of-State and International Student Enrollment at UC Berkeley and UCLA This Year 
▶ NONRESIDENT,  from page 1Sherman Aline  saline@ucsd.edu readers can contact
Josh Lefler jlefler@ucsd.edu readers can contactAndrew Chao  avchao@ucsd.edu readers can contact4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , SEPTEMBER 24, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
See PROTOCOL , page 5Last week, a student in Irving, Texas was 
arrested, released and suspended from his 
high school due to an alleged “bomb” that 
turned out to be a homemade digital clock inside 
a briefcase-like pencil box. The student’s name is 
Ahmed Mohamed. He is an identified Muslim, and 
he is also Sudanese. These hard facts, laced within the 
overarching story of his arrest, have spurred social 
media activists to call out America’s Islamophobia 
and produce the centralizing hashtag to rapid news 
dissemination: #IStandWithAhmed. And, let the UCSD 
Guardian’s Editorial Board be clear before moving 
forward: We don’t agree with Ahmed’s detainment, 
and the situation is so heavily intertwined with socio-
cultural factors that it can’t be disregarded, but what 
the school did — the call for police, the suspension — 
was protocol as usual.
Countless numbers of individuals and 
organizations, big and small, weighed in. A tweet 
from President Barack Obama here, some top-notch 
technological gadgets from Microsoft Corp. over 
there. Sprinkle it all with a few college invitations 
from world-renowned universities like Harvard 
and MIT and we have a best-case scenario post-
arrest. Mohamed’s minor debacle with Texan school 
administration and law enforcement is now a major 
triumph for religious minority students to combat prejudice and pursue their own interests and passions. 
And the story should’ve ended here, with the uplifting 
turn of events, but it didn’t.
Conservative website Breitbart News Network 
released “The Real Story of #IStandWithAhmed, ” 
stating that the social media uproar “stinks of leftist 
exploitation. ” Writer Ben Shapiro concluded that 
Ahmed’s case isn’t “a national scandal” but that the 
local authorities and school faculty were following 
school district protocol. Even Irving police chief Larry 
Boyd, according to the New Y ork Times, argued that 
Ahmed’s detainment was based on the information 
that there was a potential bomb at the local high 
school. This was their primary reason for arrest and 
questioning of Mohamed.
The officers were not informed that the suspected 
“bomb” was also an alarm clock, which was the 
reason for the beeping in the middle of class. Irving’s 
Mayor Beth Van Duyne, in the same New York Times 
piece, wrote on Facebook that she was not placing 
fault on the high school or law enforcement for their 
actions and investigating a possible threat. Despite 
acknowledging that following protocol is justified, Van 
Duyne emphatically noted that she would not want that 
to happen to her children either.
Shapiro, Boyd, Van Duyne — they all have their 
points. And so does Mohamed’s high school English ILLUSTRATION BY DAVID JUAREZAhmed Mohamed’s arrest highlighted the issue of  
Islamophobia in schools. The Ed Board examines the 
strictly cautious policies that led to his arrest.Following ProtocolOPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CASSIA POLLOCK
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
UCSD’s sudden decision to 
revive the C.H.E. Cafe Collective 
with university-subsidized safety 
upgrades to the facility is a rare 
and refreshing example that the 
university is not completely deaf 
to student voices. After close to 
a year of marches, sit-ins, visits 
to A.S. Council and numerous 
threats of eviction, the C.H.E. won 
a small battle against administra -
tive officials. While the university’s 
change of heart may give us hope 
for the future, we cannot forget 
that it took the better part of a 
year for any productive decisions 
to take place. According to emails 
obtained through the California 
Public Records Act, it appears that 
previous efforts to communicate 
with the vice chancellor of student 
affairs failed. 
Associate Chancellor Clare 
Kristofco responded promptly 
to Collective members’ concerns 
in June, resonating with the A.S. 
Council and Graduate Student 
Association’s joint resolution to 
rebuild the C.H.E. The resolution 
passed last Winter Quarter. The 
issue of safety hazards was highly 
contentious throughout the debacle 
last year. Although the facility technically meets California build -
ing code standards, students and 
administrators expressed concerns 
over whether visitors of the facil -
ity were actually safe within the 
structure. Once Chancellor Khosla’s 
office got involved, officials swiftly 
decided to appropriate funds, with 
the potential of securing the struc -
ture and the future of the space. 
The Collective fought resiliently 
to make sure its voices were heard, 
and this undoubtedly influenced the 
decision. The 120-day occupation 
of the facility, which began when 
police posted the eviction notice 
on March 24, was most significant. 
Nonetheless, continuous discussions 
with administrative officials are 
what ultimately saved the historic 
structure. Police had 180 days to 
force occupants out of the facility, 
but university officials suspended 
the eviction almost immediately 
after Chancellor Khosla became 
directly involved in communications. 
Administration would likely not 
have welcomed the confrontation 
between occupants and law enforce -
ment but it is unclear whether this 
threat alone was responsible for the 
unexpected willingness to reinforce 
the structure. Initially, the C.H.E. ’s appeal 
appeared to be limited to dedicated 
C.H.E. alumni and community 
members. As the year progressed, 
though, even students who had no 
idea where the C.H.E. Cafe was 
located knew about their cause. The 
C.H.E. ’s relentless efforts to preserve 
a safe space for students serves as 
an inspiring reminder of what we as 
students can accomplish when we 
are persistent enough. With the facil -
ity being taken out of limbo, C.H.E. 
Cafe members plan on expanding 
the role of the cooperative at UCSD. 
Members stated they hope to make 
the space a resource center and a 
study area that all students can safely 
enjoy. This will enable the organiza -
tion to continuously grow and sus -
tain a campus-based support system. 
However, in order for these 
plans along with any others to 
manifest themselves, the C.H.E. 
and administrative officials will 
have to ensure channels of commu -
nication are always open, not just 
in moments of crisis. Furthermore, 
both parties must adhere to any 
agreements being made which 
will be especially important if the 
C.H.E. is going to withstand con -
flicts in the future.How-T o 
Guru: Be a 
Social Media 
Celebrity
Social media is an unavoidable 
part of the college experience. 
It’s assumed that you must be 
on Facebook, Twitter, Snapchat and 
Instagram, or you’re probably some 
kind of caveman living in complete 
isolation. If you do not post selfies 
and filtered pictures of your 
lunchables on a daily basis, then say 
goodbye to any hope of obtaining 
complete popularity. If you are to 
achieve prominence as a celebrity 
student on campus, be sure to take 
the following tips in this handy-
dandy guide to mastering the art of 
social media to heart.
To begin, use Facebook and 
Twitter as your personal political 
campaign. Rant about the 
mistreatment of puppies in Korea, 
the unfathomable state of America 
and your passionate feelings 
on abortion. Frequently post 
traumatizingly graphic photos to 
support your messages. If anybody 
should comment on these posts, 
immediately respond. Don’t bother 
checking grammatical mistakes or 
fretting the details. It is paramount 
to your success that you are 
available on social media 24/7. This 
shows passion and commitment 
that social media users can admire 
and respect.
Next, document everything 
about your life. Don’t allow one 
valuable second to pass by without 
photographic evidence. Even if 
something seems insignificant, 
err on the safe side and take a 
picture. Your followers may lose 
interest in your existence if you 
do not provide constant proof of it 
on Instagram. Some key moments 
to take selfies include taking an 
adorable nap by yourself, eating a 
Chipotle burrito and getting drunk 
at a party.
Pro Tip: There’s no point in 
editing out the red cups in your 
photos. Employers like to see proof 
that you possess the social skills 
to frequent networking events. 
What better way to show them 
than to feature pictures of yourself 
chugging a keg on your profile? If 
you ever “experiment, ” there’s no 
need to hide this. Proudly display 
your wild party animal pictures and   
enjoy all the doors that will open 
for you as a result.
Sooner or later in college, your 
life may take a dark turn. Perhaps 
you’ll be jilted by a partner or 
fail to get an A in that biology 
class. Either way, you’ll need to 
communicate your anguish on 
social media, and song lyrics are 
perfect for this. There’s no need 
to use your own original thoughts 
when you can simply regurgitate 
the creative products of other 
people. Sometimes it’s helpful to 
post an entire music video, with 
a simple caption like, “This vid 
is SO me right now, guys. ” When 
people try to comfort you, just say, 
“I don’t want to talk about it. ” The 
mystery of your life will enthrall 
everyone. Constantly vague, moody 
statements will serve to deepen the 
enigma that is you.
After completing all these steps, 
congratulations — you should be 
the center of attention. If trolls 
spam your newsfeed with insults 
and remarks, simply smirk and 
reassure yourself with, “Haters 
gonna hate. ” Now type, post, spam, 
tweet and enjoy the constant feed 
of validation into your giant ego. One Small Step for the C.H.E. but More Hurdles to Overcome
Vincent Pham
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Tina Butoiu
MANAGING EDITOR
Rosina Garcia
MANAGING EDITOR  
Cassia Pollock
OPINION EDITOR
Kriti Sarin
NEWS EDITOR
Jacky To
ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITOR
Marcus Thuillier
SPORTS EDITOR
 
Kyle Somers
ASSOCIATE FEATURES EDITOREDITORIAL  BOARD
The UCSD Guardian is published twice a week at the 
University of California at San Diego. Contents © 
2014. Views expressed herein represent the majority 
vote of the editorial board and are not necessarily those 
of the UC Board of Regents, the ASUCSD or the 
members of the Guardian staff. OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , SEPTEMBER 24, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
teacher at Irving. In its 2015–16 
Student Code of Conduct, the 
Irving Independent School 
District states under “General 
Conduct Violations, Possession of 
Prohibited Items” that “students 
shall not possess or use: a ‘look-
alike’ weapon. ” Although the 
terminology is vague, the teacher, 
law enforcement and news reports 
repeatedly use words such as 
“fake” or “hoax” bomb, which 
easily translate over to “look-alike” 
weapon. That is a clear strike 
against Mohamed in this situation 
and one that strongly supports 
the teacher’s actions to err on the 
safe side and call the police for a suspected bomb. In fact, it can 
easily be the only reason for her to 
call law enforcement to investigate 
the situation.
The Irving ISD’s Board Policy 
Manual, Section F: “Students, sub-
section FNCG (LOCAL): Student 
Conduct — Weapons, states that 
“students should not possess: 6. 
Any other object used in a way that 
threatens or inflicts bodily injury 
to another person, or that the 
principal or designee determines 
presents a danger to any student, 
District employee, or District 
property by virtue of possession 
or use of the object. ” A violation 
of this code results in disciplinary 
action laid out by the SCOC. More 
so, the FNCG and the “look-alike” weapon clause pair nicely to further 
suggest the teacher’s judgement 
was made in earnest and in regard 
for safety. A three-day suspension, 
which was given to Ahmed after 
the incident, is how Section F: 
Students, sub-section FOB: Student 
Discipline — Out-of-School 
Suspension (Education Code 
37.005) outlines procedure. 
With that as a framework 
toward the teacher’s actions, it all 
stacks up. In the district “where 
children come first, ” the teacher’s 
actions were led by this mantra and 
were earnest attempts at putting 
the lives of students in the safety 
of law enforcement. Quite simply, 
Mohamed’s arrest followed protocol 
as usual.
@asucsdRegistration for FALL QUARTER
opens SEPTEMBER 28, 2105
A.S. Safe Rides allows registered undergraduate 
students to get 3 FREE rides per quarter.
Students MUST register at least
24 hours prior to their ﬁrst ride. A.S. SAFE RIDES 
REGISTER ONLINE AT
AS.UCSD.EDU/SAFERIDESWORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
SCOC’s Rules on “Look-Alike” Weapons Necessitated Mohamed’s Arrest
▶ PROTOCOL,  from page 4SEND YOUR 
LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGGOT ISSUES?Q&A
CIRCA WAVES
INTERVIEW BY CEDRIC HYON // SENIOR STAFF WRITER
Before the band Circa Waves’ concert at UCSD, 
we sat down with drummer Colin Jones and 
bassist Sam Rourke to talk about what it’s like 
being in an underground indie rock band.
Y our EP T-Shirt Weather has a surf-rock kind of 
sound. Where do you guys get inspiration for that sound? Do you 
plan on keeping that sound or diverging on other albums?
Basically Kieran wrote most of the stu ff ... We’ve all had 
different interests as well that we brought to the table. I like rock, 
like a Led Zeppelin kind of rock. I know Sam likes his hip-hop and 
jazz and stu ff like that. Joe likes his scrappy guitar and punk stu ff ... I 
think every artist needs to develop in a certain way. Do you like the 
Arctic Monkeys? Seeing from where they were then to now, I think 
that’s the best way. To experiment and find di fferent sounds and 
that’s the best way to see.Guardian:
Colin:
Opinion on mainstream music? 
It all just kind of sounds the same to me. I don’t really listen 
to that stu ff. I’m sure there’s stu ff in there that’s great and occasion -
ally a song will leak or filter through my defense system, and I’ll say, 
“Hey, that’s all right. ” I thought “Wrecking Ball” by Miley Cyrus was 
really cool. But generally it’s not for me, though. They’re not really 
aiming at me, so it’s whatever. Guardian:
Sam:
Would you ever want to be at a high level of popu -
larity, or maybe an Arctic Monkeys-level of popularity? 
I think it’s rare to be very popular without becoming 
more generic. 
It’s one in a million. To be like a genuine band that’s 
artistically interested and have mass appeal is one in a million. Most 
things with mass appeal by their very nature have to be generic. I 
don’t know if that’s what music should be about.Say the Arctic Monkeys, they are very mainstream in the 
UK. It’s like, to be that band...Guardian:
Sam:
Sam:Colin:Your guys’ origins are in Liverpool, where the 
Beatles also started. Do you ever draw inspiration from that, do 
you think it’s a funny coincidence, what do you think of having 
that same origin?
 I think it’s a massive albatross around our necks that we 
have to deal with on a daily basis. I mean, they’re the best band 
ever so being from Liverpool you do get these comparisons 
for geographical reasons. But I mean, who’s gonna beat that? 
No one has been the Beatles in like 70 years or whatever it is, 
but they’re still the best. I don’t think that we feel speci fically 
inspired by them. Songwriting without the Beatles, however, 
is really hard to imagine though because they were the biggest 
influence on a lot of people, so the people we’re in fluenced by 
would be in fluenced by them, and you can’t really escape it. But 
I don’t think we’re so into that we go, “What would the Beatles 
do? What would they write in this chorus?” We’re not like into 
it at that level, but it’s hard to get away from them. It’s a like a 
black hole in a good way. It’s a really good black hole.Guardian:
Sam:
Tonight. What are you guys gonna think when 
you’re going in? What’s your ideal?
 I’m gonna see how it goes. I don’t know how it’s gonna 
go tonight. I’m sure it’ll be good. We usually put on a brilliant 
show. The rowdier the crowd is the better for me. And people 
throwing beers and spitting, that’s good. Doesn’t matter how many people are there or aren’t 
there. I have one set mind of going out and playing how I do 
every single run. Playing just crazy and 200,000,000 percent! 
(Laughs). Always play as we do. All the e ffort we can as we go 
on. If there’s one person or 200,000 people there we’ve gotta put 
on the same show because that one person could come to the 
next show and bring a friend, so that’s my mindset. Guardian:
Sam:Colin:
PHOTO COURTESY OF THEGIRLSATTHEROCKSHOW.COMWEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , SEPTEMBER 24, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
WRITEREAL STUDENT JOURNALISM
DESIGN
JOIN OUR AWARD-WINNING STAFF TOD AY
COME TO OUR INFO SESSION • FREE FOOD!
FRID AY,  O C T O B E R  9 ,  2 015 • 5pm
Dolores Huerta Room - STUDENT CENTER, LEVEL 2
www.ucsdguardian.org/jobsPHOTOGRAPH
Interested in exploring cuisine beyond 
what’s available at UCSD? For a limited 
time, restaurants all around the San 
Diego area are pulling out all the stops 
to create the ultimate dining experience. 
Here’s just a taste of what San Diego has 
to offer, but hurry soon — this appetizing 
adventure only lasts until Sept. 27.
Compiled by  // Lifestyle Staff Puesto
HOURS:
Sunday to Thursday: 11 a.m. to 9 p.m.
Friday to Saturday: 11 a.m. to 10 p.m.LOCATION:
1026 Wall St.
La Jolla, CA 92037CUISINE : Mexican Street Tacos
$15 Lunch; $30 Dinner per person
Whether you’re native or local, it’s no surprise to find out that San 
Diego is a culinary hodgepodge of Mexican cuisine. But the gem of 
them all is Puesto — a quaint taco-bar hybrid tucked away in the heart of 
La Jolla. And for San Diego’s Restaurant Week, they’re not holding back. 
Puesto’s three-course dining experience starts with an antojito — your 
choice of creamy guacamole stu ffed with crab or dressed in pomegranate 
seeds and mango bites. Next up, the classic three-taco plate satis fies 
vegetarians and carnivores alike. Corn tortillas are stu ffed with juicy 
carnitas, succulent asada, tender cactus or rajas — a delectable blend of 
corn and mushrooms — all topped with a copious amount of cilantro and 
onions. Each meal comes with a side of steamy rice or black beans and is 
finished with a silky caramel flan or crispy cinnamon bunuelo. But whether 
you stick with their generous Restaurant Week menu or opt for their classic 
taco selection, you’re sure to leave satis fied and hungry for more.Restaurant
Week 2015 
Restaurant Week 2015
 by Brittney Lu // Lifestyle Co-EditorPHOTO BY CORY WONG/GUARDIAN8     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , SEPTEMBER 24, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  WEEKEND
OCT. 1st       3–5 PM VILLAGE CONFERENCE ROOMS
FREE FOOD AND DRINKSfromTRITON
PANTRYFOOD
location: Original Student Center
email: foodpantry@ucsd.edu
phone: (858) 534-5694The mission of the Triton Food Pantry is to provide a discreet 
service to UCSD students in need of food. Our goals are to 
ensure that every student has enough energy to get through 
the day and that no student needs to give up a single meal 
for any reason. We aim to build a network of resources and 
awareness about food insecurity.
Hours subject to change in future quarters.Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri
9am–1pm 3pm–6pm 3pm–6pm 9am–1pm 9am–1pmFall Quarter Hours:
The Marine Room  Il Fornaio   
HOURS:
Sunday to Thursday: 4 p.m. to 9:30 p.m.
Friday to Saturday: 4 p.m. to 10 p.m.HOURS:
Mionday to Thursday: 11:30 a.m. to 10 p.m.
Friday: 11:30 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Saturday: 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Sunday: 11 a.m. to 10 p.m.
LOCATION:
2000 Spindrift Dr.
La Jolla, CA 92037LOCATION:
1555 Camino Del Mar,
Suite 301
Del Mar, CA 92014CUISINE: Italian 
$20 Lunch; $40 Dinner 
per person
CUISINE : French, Seafood
$50 Dinner per person
If you’re feeling particularly au courant — fashionable, hipster — 
or dying to rest your eyes on the ocean’s drawl, The Marine Room 
will immediately catch the attention of those ready to drop a wallet 
like Beyonce drops an album. With an ocean sunset-esque color 
palette, the intimate brine through the windows and utmost service, 
this restaurant is carved to deliver that classy upscale La Jolla vibe. 
As expected when it comes to food, this pristine establishment is 
no slouch. True, there are only six main courses available in the 
Restaurant Week menu, but each o ffers the upper echelons of seafood 
and meat: tuna, lobster tail, scallops and a seafood staple — salmon.
 by Christian Gella // Lifestyle Senior Staff Writer  by Adam Fisher // Lifestyle Staff WriterOverlooking the ocean, Il Fornaio provides quintessential 
Italian dining. Part of the menu will be familiar to 
anyone who has eaten at an Italian restaurant, with standbys 
of bruschetta, caprese salad, margherita pizza and pasta 
bolognese. Other entrees are more exotic, like the “Ravioli 
Alla Lucana, ” a spinach pasta stu ffed with sausage, ricotta 
cheese and topped with a spicy red sauce. The dessert menu 
follows a similar pattern. Less-adventurous eaters can 
enjoy favorites such as tiramisu and gelato. Those looking 
for something new to satisfy their sweet tooth can try the 
“Spumone Gelato,” which combines three flavors of gelato 
with cherries and pistachios or pick from several other 
extraordinary creations.
During Restaurant week, Il Fornaio o ffers a $20 two-
course lunch — a soup or salad and one of a few pastas, 
pizzas or burgers. The $40 four-course dinner begins with 
a soup or salad, followed by a pasta, a main course and a 
dessert. In suit with the usual menu, some items are well-
known but others are original, such as the bacon stu ffed pasta 
with a white vodka sauce or the pork chop served with a pear 
and mustard seed compote.  
Il Fornaio provides upscale Italian fare and a refreshingly 
cool sea breeze. The idyllic location and delicious food make 
it an easy restaurant to recommend.COURTESY OF THE MARINE ROOM WEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , SEPTEMBER 24, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
YOU HAVETHE RIGHT
TO BE REPRESENTED BY A STUDENT ADVOCATE!
The ASUCSD Office of Student Advocacy provides 
free and confidential assistance, representation, 
and information in academic and non-academic 
matters concerning student rights.
FOR MORE INFORMATION OR TO SCHEDULE AN APPOINTMENT,
EMAIL US AT  ASADVOCACY@UCSD.EDU
VISIT OUR WEBSITE AT  ASADVOCACY.UCSD.EDU
WE ARE LOCATED AT PRICE CENTER EAST, LEVEL 4A.S. OFFICE OF
STUDENT ADVOCACY
HE NAMED MEMALALA
ASCE.UCSD. EDUFor mo re information, contact ASCE at
avpconcerts@ucsd .edu or (858) 534-0 477Thursday, October 8th, 7 PM
AMC La Jolla Theater
FREE for UCSD undergrads with valid ID 15+1 Tips and 
Things to Know 
for Starting 
Your 2015–16 
School Year off 
Right
Just two years ago, Revelle College did not have any dining halls. 
Now it has the best new eateries. Sixty-Four North, Revelle’s Bistro 
2.0, opens this quarter right next to 64 Degrees.
Y ou can walk down to the beach from The Village. 
Using Triton Cash gives you a 10-percent discount at Price Center 
and other places o ff-campus like Whole Foods, Domino’s Pizza and 
Chipotle.
Most, if not all, clubs are out promoting this week, so take 
advantage of Library Walk to find the perfect organization or get 
lots of freebies.
Get your free pass to explore San Diego. Pick up public transit 
stickers at a booth next to the UCSD Bookstore or at its o ffice in 
the Gilman Parking Structure.
Coffee is available at every nook, cranny and turn — with at least 
two di fferent locations per college. We recommend that you try Art 
of Espresso (aka the Mandeville co ffee cart) in Revelle and Muir 
Woods in Muir College.Low on cash? Not afraid to be a guinea pig? Research studies on 
campus are a great way to make some pocket money, with some 
payments being as much as $50. Check out the Rady Behavioral 
Lab’s website to sign up for some of them.
Definitely be inconsiderate by huddling in front of classroom 
doors, preventing people from leaving the classroom. It will 
establish your dominance and superiority over the herd.
There’s an aquarium you can visit near Scripps Institution of 
Oceanography by taking the S shuttle. 
If you’re here to do research, the REAL Portal (available on 
Tritonlink) is the ultimate smorgasbord of both paid and volunteer 
opportunities provided by UCSD professors.
Living at Thurgood Marshall College but unsure where to grab 
food now that Oceanview Terrace is remodeling? Goody’s is now 
serving up breakfast burritos, and food trucks are available near 
the lower-apartment parking lots.
Sixth College finally has a dining hall with a sit-down experience. 
Foodworx has been reconstructed to include seating and AC for 
your pizza-eating pleasure.
Discover your favorite restroom, and at all costs avoid the ones at 
Solis and Peterson Halls.Moving in has never been cheap, so don’t be shy — give UCSD 
Free and For Sale a try. *ba-dum tss*
Remember Lemongrass at UCSD’s Tuesday farmer’s market? This 
fall you can find it in the heart of Price Center.For all of you tennis fanatics out there, the courts by The Village 
have been renovated to better accommodate every serve, ace and 
groundstroke.Compiled by 
LIfestyle Staff
with thanks to
 UCSD Guardian Staff
+10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , SEPTEMBER 24, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDS$
Gua rdian Classifieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedsBIKES
Focus Mares Cross Bike - $1150. Fantastic 
condition. Avid Shorty brakes, Dura-Ace / 
Ultega group. Size 52. Listing ID: 187903275 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Like New Felt B12 Tri Bike 51cm - $1800. 
It is the 2013 model purchased in 2014. I 
do not nearly give this bike enough atten -
tion as I am focused on more road riding, 
so I am selling it instead of having it sit in 
my garage. This bike BARELY has 600 mis 
on it and not a scratch. You are welcome 
to inspect it prior to purchase. Listing ID: 
188645794 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
2011 Bontrager Racer Pro Saddle - $40. 
Came off a 2010 Trek Fuel EX 9.9. New it 
cost $125. Very small scratches on the back 
of the saddle when I turned over my bike. 
Listing ID: 188645795 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
AUTO
Nice Show and Go Cruzer- $44000. 1957 
Chevrolet nomad wagon show and go. 
Used. 22,000 miles. Wagon. 8 Cyl. Brown. Tan. Excellent condition. Listing ID: 
190056634 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Chevrolet Nova - $13650. Very clean, stock 
looking 1967 Nova SS. It is a true 118, fac -
tory 4-speed car. Listing ID: 189213986 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Nissan Quest Minivan - $300. Good engine 
and tires. Nice alloy rims. AM/FM stereo. 
Bad transmission, no pink slip. The vehi -
cle runs OK and is drivable. Listing ID: 
188306747at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
FURNITURE
Pillow Top Mattress - $699. Queen, Cal King, 
E. King. Brand new mattress. Call for details. 
Listing ID: 189214477 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Chair and Sofa - $999. A nice addition to 
your living decor. Very popular item.  Offer 
ends this weekend so stop by 9245 Dowdy 
Dr., Suite 103, 92126. Free local delivery. 
Listing ID: 189214465 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
t
your vision,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel to 
promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies 
on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.ukLevel: 1234 Level: 1234
SUDOKU
GET INVOLVED!
as.ucsd.eduJoin the
Associated Students
asucsd asucsdAssociated Students at UC San Diego 
serves as the voice of the students, 
encouraging communication and unity within 
the campus community through leadership, 
advocacy, and various services.
For more information on how to get involved, 
visit as.ucsd.edu
For mo re info, visit as.ucsd .eduwhat do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
to.ucsd.edunew fall apparel coming soon...
Wood Dining Table - $469. A great addi -
tion to your home decor. This week’s sale 
ends on Friday. Listing ID: 189214448 at 
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mationSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , SEPTEMBER 24, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
LECTUR E
NOTE SSOFTRESERVES
An A.S. enterprise that e nables professors 
to disseminate var ious course mater ials 
to their students.  These include 
course readers , lab manuals, class 
notes, sample exams , homework 
solutions, etc.
 An A.S. enterp rise that pays 
student n ote-takers to take notes  
for a variety of c ourses. Current 
Notes (note-taker is in the cl ass) 
are sold on a subscription basis 
and are available for pick up eve ry 
Monday m orning.
Archive Note s (from a p revious 
quarter) are pre-ordered and the 
entire quarter's notes are ava ilable
in a bound p acket.
HOURS OFOPERATI ON
OPENS ON
MONDAY
of
WEEK 2!Mon-Fri:
10am-5p m
as-lecture-n otes@ucsd.edu858-534-6256 858-534-6256
assoftreserve s@ucsd.eduONLIN E SERV ICE!
Pre-order your reade r online at:
and pick it up at the Studen t Center softreserves.ucsd.edu
Located on Level 1 at the Student Center
Located on Level 1 at the Student CenterHOURS OFOPERATION
Mon-Fri:
9am-5pm
Extended hours
til 6pm
Occasional Sat:
10am-2pmGame 4
 UCSD battled back against Air 
Force on Sunday evening and ended 
the tourney with a narrow 16–15 
win. The Tritons began play with an 
powerful offensive onslaught, scor -
ing four goals and holding the Fal -
cons to just one in the first minutes 
of the first frame. Senior utility Chase             
Cockerill slammed one more into 
the cage in the last 50 seconds of the 
quarter to increase the Tritons’ lead 
to four, but the Falcons answered 
with two more fast shots in the last 
21 seconds of play to narrow their deficit. The teams ended the first half 
tied at 8–8. The Tritons then pulled to 
a narrow one-point lead in the third 
and held off the Falcons for one more 
quarter on their way to a win.
 UCSD hosted Western Water Polo 
Association rival Loyola Marymount 
University at home on Wednesday as 
part of UCSD’s Welcome Week Triton 
Trifecta. Loyola is ranked second in 
the WWPA preseason polls, with the 
Tritons holding the third place spot. 
UC Davis is the current favorite. Tritons Lose Three Spots, Fall to No. 13 
▶ M. WATER POLO,  from page 12
This past Tuesday, the UCSD 
women’s volleyball squad fell after 
valiantly fighting a close match for 
the third annual Reis Cup against 
No. 17 Cal State San Bernardino in 
front of a packed home crowd at 
RIMAC Arena.
This was the second meeting be -
tween the teams in less than a week. 
The Tritons played against the Coy -
otes on Sept. 15, a game the Tritons 
won in a blowout fashion, with a 3–0 
set box score. Tuesday’s match was 
decided in four sets, ending with 
box scores of 28–26, 20–25, 26–24 
and 25–17. 
With this loss, UCSD’s overall 
record fell to 6–5 and its Califor -
nia Collegiate Athletic Association 
record fell to 2–1. Cal State San 
Bernardino improved as a result of its win to a 9–2 overall and a 2–1 
CCAA record. This was also UCSD’s 
first loss in the Reis Cup, which is 
named in honor of Karen Reis, a for -
mer Triton volleyball player. UCSD 
previously won the Cup in 2014 and 
in its inaugural year of 2013. 
The Coyotes won on Tuesday 
with an advantage in hitting per -
centage, with a .253 (57–17–158) 
percentage compared to the Tritons’ 
.142 (57–33–169) percentage. The 
Coyotes also led the blocks statistic, 
out-blocking the Tritons 11–4.
Senior middle blocker Kameron 
Cooper led the Tritons with 15.5 
points. She had 14 kills, six digs 
and two blocks. Junior outside hit -
ter Meagan Wright followed close 
behind with 15 points exacted on 
15 kills, which, along with a match-
high 19 digs, helped Wright com -
plete her fifth double-double of the 
season. The Tritons’ setter, senior Heidi Sierks, also ended the game 
with a double-double as she had 42 
assists and 12 digs. Senior outside 
hitter Danielle Dahle achieved a ca -
reer-best four aces. The Tritons were 
able to ace the Coyotes eight times. 
Tuesday’s game was the UCSD 
women’s volleyball team’s home 
opener. With a crowd of 1,102 fans, 
this was the fifth-largest crowd to 
watch a women’s volleyball game at 
RIMAC Arena and the biggest since 
2004, with the game being featured 
as the first game of the Welcome 
Week Triton Trifecta. 
The women’s volleyball team 
hopes for similar support at their 
next home game as it squares off  
against another tough opponent this 
Friday when it plays against No. 25 
Cal State Los Angeles at 7 p.m.
readers can contact
Ka tie  Potts    kpotts@ucsd.edu W. VOLLEYBALL
readers can contact
Gurkira t Singh   gsingh@ucsd.edu Tritons Lose Reis Cup for First Time 
After upsetting No. 17 CSU San Bernardino on September 15,  UCSD suffers a three-sets-
to-one defeat to the Coyotes in front of a record crowd at RIMAC Arena on Tuesday Night.
By   G u r k i r a t   S i n g h 
senior staff writerPHOTO BY MEGAN LEE/ UCSD GUARDIAN
PHOTO BY CARINA CORNEJO/ UCSD GUARDIAN
FOLLOW US ON 
TWITTER
@UCSD_SportsSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
MARCUS THUILLIER
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , SEPTEMBER 24, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
MEN’S SOCCER
WOMEN’S
VOLLEYBALLWOMEN’S SOCCER
MEN’S 
WATERPOLO28 20 26 25UCSD
UCSD
UCSDUCSD
UCSD
UCSD
UCSD
UCSDUCSDCal Poly Pomona
Cal Poly Pomona
CSU Long BeachCSU San Bernadino
CSU San Bernadino
Santa Clara
Princeton
Air ForceCSU San Bernadino1 - 0
2 - 3
6 - 110 - 0
2 - 3
15 - 11
9 - 12
16 - 1526 25 24 17With a team-high 11 
goals, senior utility 
Chase Cockerill has 
been pacing the men’s 
water polo team since 
the beginning of the season.
Freshman Karina 
Carstens was the top-
Triton finisher, placing 
14th to lead a women’s 
cross country team that 
finished first in Division-II 
and second overall.
Cal State L.A. women’s 
volleyball, UCSD’s next 
opponent on Friday, 
holds a 3–0 record in 
CCAA play, the last 
undefeated team in 
CCAA games.11
14
0
UCSD Blanks Rivals  Soft-Playing Tritons
After a hesitant start to the new season, the Tritons look to build upon 
last week’s first two games of California Collegiate Athletic Associa -
tion action and surge toward the top of the table. UCSD beat Cal Poly         
Pomona 1–0 to open its CCAA schedule but was held scoreless through double 
overtime as it drew 0–0 against Cal State San Bernardino. UCSD now holds a 
2–2–3 overall record and is 1–0–1 in the CCAA.
Game 1
On Sept. 18, UCSD edged out a 1–0 win against rival Cal Poly Pomona at 
Triton Stadium. With the score at a deadlock 0–0 after 58 minutes of play, soph -
omore forward Uly de la Cal surged on the left side after a pass by junior mid -
fielder Riley Harbour to put one past the Pomona goalie and take a decisive 1–0 
lead that would hold until the end of the game. It was Cal Poly Pomona’s first 
defeat of the season and de la Cal’s first collegiate game winner. 
“It’s great, I’m having fun, I’m glad to help the team out, ” de la Cal told the 
UCSD Athletics Department. “I had a good amount of minutes last year to 
prepare myself for this, [and] I had time to really build some confidence to            
play well. ”
Game 2
UCSD was back in business on Sunday night against Cal State San Bernardi -
no. Redshirt junior goalie Cameron McElfresh earned his third clean sheet of 
the season as the Tritons drew 0–0 with the visiting team. Despite outshooting 
San Bernardino 11 to 8, UCSD could not force the decision in double overtime 
and had to settle for the draw. 
“We saw two very talented teams, ” UCSD Head Coach Jon Pascale told the 
UCSD Athletics Department. “I thought our guys did a great job going toe to 
toe with them and limiting their opportunities. The work rate is here and it is 
really all you could ask of your team. ”
Junior forward Malek Bashti and sophomore midfielder Sean Pleskow, last 
year’s returning two Triton leading scorers, are still out with injuries and haven’t 
appeared in any of UCSD’s contests this season, with the offense struggling to 
create goals without them. 
Even with their absence, UCSD is off to a good start in CCAA play and will 
continue a season-high, four-match homestand when they host CCAA foes 
Cal State East Bay on Friday, Sept. 25, at 4:30 p.m. and Cal State Stanislaus on      
Sunday, Sept. 27, at 11:30 a.m.
No. 13 UCSD men’s water polo 
traveled north to Stanford’s Avery 
Aquatics Center for the Kap7 Nor -
Cal Tournament this past weekend 
and took two of four games to finish 
11th overall. The Tritons opened the 
tournament with an 11–6 loss to No. 
7 Cal State Long Beach and a 15–11 
comeback win against conference 
rival Santa Clara University on Sat -
urday, then closed with a 12–9 loss 
against No. 12 Princeton and a 16–15 
win against No. 16 Air Force on Sun -
day. The Tritons now have a 6–5 over -
all record.
Game 1
 UCSD opened Saturday’s play with a tough loss against an aggressive Cal 
State Long Beach team. Sophomore 
center Duncan Lynde pulled the 49ers 
to an early lead, scoring in the first 28 
seconds of the first frame. UCSD re -
sponded with a goal to level the score, 
but Long Beach nailed one more shot 
into the cage to pull ahead at the end 
of the quarter. The 49ers held a 5–3 
lead at the half then drove in the knife 
in the final frames, giving up just 
three points to the Tritons and scor -
ing six to take a decisive 11–6 win.
“It was a tough game for us, ” UCSD 
Head Coach Denny Harper told the 
UCSD Athletics Department. “They 
were very physical; we didn’t respond like we should have. It was a good 
learning experience. ”
Game 2 
 The Tritons made up for their 
slow start with a come-from-behind 
win against Santa Clara University 
in Saturday’s game two. The Tritons 
ended the first half at an 8–8 deadlock 
then crushed the Broncos in the sec -
ond to seal their win. UCSD scored 
a whopping seven points and held 
Santa Clara to two goals in the third 
quarter and just one in the fourth, 
ending the day on a high note with a                     
15–11 victory.
Game 3
 The Triton team suffered another loss as they opened up Sunday’s play, 
falling 12–9 in a close match against 
Princeton. The Tigers’ freshman util -
ity Ryan Wilson scored two to open 
the game, but UCSD’s redshirt junior 
two-meter Tyler Mancuso cranked a 
shot into the cage in the last nine sec -
onds of the first quarter to close the 
gap. The Tritons clung to that one-
point deficit through the half. How -
ever, the Princeton offense gained 
momentum in the third and increased 
the lead to two goals, then scored four 
more in the final frame to clinch the 
upset.Despite a good start to the new season, the Tritons soccer team came 
up empty in their first two California Collegiate Athletic Associa -
tion games. A convincing 2–1 win over then No. 14 Cal State Los              
Angeles did not help as UCSD suffered back-to-back 3–2 overtime losses to 
Cal Poly Pomona and Cal State San Bernardino to start their CCAA schedule. 
The Tritons hold a 4–3 overall record and is 0–2 in CCAA games.
Game 1
On Friday, UCSD’s women’s soccer team jumped to a 2–0 advantage against 
Cal Poly Pomona after 60 minutes. Sophomore forward Katie O’Laughlin 
had her first collegiate double as she scored both goals for the Tritons. Po -
mona answered 10 minutes later when senior defender Megan Kisslan put 
one past UCSD senior goalie Kelcie Brodsky. With only 110 seconds left, the 
Broncos equalized to push the game to overtime, before eventually defeating 
UCSD with their own goal. 
“It was very disappointing, ” UCSD Head Coach Brian McManus told the 
UCSD Athletics Department. “Y ou’re [up two-nothing], and after that the 
game management is terrible. That was a game that we should have won. The 
management in the last five or six minutes was terrible. When you score two 
goals like that there is no way you should be losing. ”
Game 2
On Sunday afternoon, the Tritons fell down 2–0 to Cal State San Bernardi -
no after 58 minutes after senior forward Melanie Aguayo scored her league-
leading fifth and sixth goals. At home, UCSD tried to muster a comeback, 
with redshirt sophomore midfielder Maxia Espino putting the Tritons on the 
board at the 75th and freshman midfielder Summer Bales equalizing at the 
85th. The comeback fell short, however, as Cal State San Bernardino scored 
at the beginning of overtime and held on to defeat the Tritons.
“We started off terrible, ” McManus told the UCSD Athletics Department. 
“We gave up two very soft goals. I thought we were dominating the second 
half and then we fall for a sucker punch in overtime, a goal on a counter-
attack. There is no excuse, and we were playing soft. The whole season is on 
the line next weekend. ”
UCSD continues its season-high, five-match homestand when it hosts 
CCAA opponents Cal State East Bay on Friday, Sept. 25, at 7 p.m., and Cal 
State Stanislaus on Sunday, Sept. 27, at 2 p.m. 
readers can contact
Marcus Thuillier   mthuilli@ucsd.edu 
M. W A TER POLO
Men’s Water Polo Finishes 11th at Kap7 Tournament
UCSD loses to No. 7 CSU Long Beach and wins against Santa Clara University on the first day. No. 12 Princeton 
upsets the Tritons on the second day of the tournament, before a hard-fought win against No. 16 Air Force. Written by Marcus Thuillier // Photos by Megan Lee
See M. WATER POLO , page 11M. Soccer
W. Volleyball
W. Soccer
M. Soccer
W. Soccer9/25     
9/25    
9/25    
9/27    
9/27VS Cal State East Bay
VS Cal State Los Angeles
VS Cal State East Bay
VS Cal State Stanislaus
VS Cal State StanislausUPCOMING
UCSD
GAMES