VOLUME 48, ISSUE 29  MONDAY , FEBRUARY 2, 2015 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
SPIRIT NIGHT 
VICTORY
OVER 4,000 TRITONS TURNED 
OUT FOR FRIDAY’S SPIRIT 
NIGHT DOUBLE HEADER 
AGAINST CAL STATE EAST BAY 
IN WHICH UCSD’S MEN’S AND 
WOMEN’S TEAMS EMERGED 
VICTORIOUS IN THEIR GAMES.
QUALITY  VS.  QUANTITY
STUDENT  REGENTS  Q&AHOW   DOCTORS  GET  P AID
Tuition  Increases  and  moreOPINION,  P age   4
Fea tures,  P age  6
MONDAY
H 73 L 52TUESDAY
H 73 L 46
WEDNESDAY
H 70 L 55THURSDAY
H 70 L 55
FORECAST
VERBATIM
ALTHOUGH MANY CONSUMERS 
ARE ALREADY AWARE OF THE 
CONDITIONS THAT WORKERS 
ENDURE TO MAKE OUR 
CLOTHES, IT IS NOT COMMON 
FOR FIRST WORLD CITIZENS 
TO TAKE ACTION.”
MARCUS THUILLIER 
& AYAT AMIN
ACROSS THE GLOBE
OPINION , PAGE 4
INSIDE
LIGHTS AND SIRENS.........3
QUICK TAKES  .................. 4
CHANGE THE WORLD  ......8
SWIM  .............................. 9
CROSSWORD  ................ 10“Sports,  P AGE  12
PHOTO BY NAME HERE / GUARDIAN
Recent findings made by research -
ers at UCSD have demonstrated that 
the molecular mechanisms by which 
the mutations in the alpha synuclein 
protein, a protein abundant in the 
brain, are connected to the famil -
ial form of Parkinson’s disease. The 
findings of the study were published 
in the online journal ACS Chemical 
Neuroscience on Jan. 5. 
The lead author of the study was 
Dr. Igor Tsigelny, a research scientist 
with the San Diego Supercomputer 
Center, the UCSD Moores Cancer 
Center and the Department of Neurosciences. 
Parkinson’s disease is a degen -
erative disorder of the nervous sys -
tem characterized by impairment or 
destruction of neurons that release 
dopamine in the substantia nigra, 
which is  located in the midbrain 
and plays an important role in 
motor-planning. In its familial form, 
Parkinson’s has been found to be 
linked to mutations of the αsyn pro -
tein and its ability to penetrate the 
cell membrane. The αsyn protein 
itself lacks a stable configuration and 
has a tendency to constantly change 
its shape. 
While it has been known for many 
years that αsyn proteins make up 
the Lewy bodies, or protein clumps, 
found in the brains of those with Parkinson’s, the purpose of the study 
at UCSD was to observe by which 
molecular mechanisms these muta -
tions were linked to Parkinson’s.
The experimental portions of the 
study were conducted in the labora -
tory of Dr. Eliezer Masliah in the 
Department of Neurosciences, while 
modeling was done at the SDSC.
Using a theoretical simulation 
called molecular dynamics on the 
supercomputer Gordon, Tsigelny and 
his team were able to generate the 
structural conformations, or altera -
tions in the shape, of αsyn mutations 
related to Parkinson’s and elucidate 
the four main regions of the protein 
where these conformers can bind UC SYSTEM
UC Student Regents Search 
For Future Representatives
University of California Student Regent Sadia Saifuddin 
and UC Student Regent Designate Abraham “ Avi” 
Oved held an Open Forum in the Governance 
Chambers of Price Center on Jan. 28 to recruit students for 
the Student Regent position. 
The UC Student Regent is one of the 26 voting members 
on the UC Board of Regents, representing the over 240,000 
undergraduate, graduate and professional students attending 
the University of California and whose purpose is to advocate 
access for diversity and quality of education. 
Saifuddin explained how the recruitment for the position 
was more targeted in previous years.
”It’s [the Student Regent position] been kind of a mysti -
cal position for many years and not a lot of students know 
about it, and usually that’s just because recruitment efforts are 
either targeted or a little vague, ” Saifuddin said. “This year we 
really want to increase our application numbers so we’ve been 
meeting with students all day as well as trying to do more 
recruitment through an open forum so we can have students 
come out, learn about the position and potentially apply or 
take this back to their communities. ”
Applying to be a Student Regent is a process that takes 
four to five months and which requires a personal statement 
five to six pages long, an information form and three refer -
ences. The completed application must be submitted by Feb. 22 and is followed by series of interviews.
Oved stated that anyone who is enrolled in the UC system 
and will be attending the University of California for the next 
two years is eligible to apply for the position, regardless of the 
student’s GPA or immigration status. In an interview with the 
UCSD Guardian, Oved discussed how there is no particular 
set of skills required to become a Student Regent.
“I know that when I was applying I was told that I didn’t 
have the right experience — or enough of it — and that I 
wouldn’t have a good chance at becoming a Student Regent 
because I was an undergrad. At the end of the day, there is no 
prescription; there is no cookie-cutter trajectory to become 
Student Regent, ” Oved said. “ At the end of the day, you only 
need to have passion, a vision and the skills to enact that 
vision. If you have that, then you are more than qualified 
to become a Student Regent, and that really is all you need. 
If you have that inkling, apply. It’s an incredibly rewarding 
experience, and I think Sadia can speak to that. ”
For a year following the appointment in July, the Student 
Regent Designate shadows and is mentored by the current 
Student Regent. During the second of year of his or her term, 
he or she attains voting privileges and becomes the mentor 
for the incoming Student Regent Designate. 
Saifuddin described how one of the roles of the Student 
Regent is to provide students with information that they   B y  tina butoiu     News editorTriton Spirit 
Night Events  
Unite Six 
CollegesCAMPUS
A panel of judges named 
John Muir College the 
victor of the intercollegiate 
spirit night competition.
B Y  Jacky To
Staff Writer
UCSD hosted its annual Spirit 
Night basketball games, reception and 
dance on Friday, Jan. 30. Students from 
all six of UCSD’s residential colleges 
attended the game and competed to 
win the Spirit Night Trophy, which 
Muir College took home at the end of 
the night.
The Tritons won both their wom -
en’s and men’s basketball games against 
Cal State East Bay at RIMAC Arena 
with scores of 64–60 and 65–54, 
respectively. UCSD’s Cheer Team and 
Pep Band, along with the student body, 
were present to rally the teams.  
For the spirit competition, a panel 
of judges evaluated each college based 
on its student attendance, the decora -
tion of its designated seating area, its 
“King Triton Sidekick, ” its college ban -
ner and the results of the two halftime 
“basketball musical chairs” contests. 
The first place recipient in each cat -
egory received six points while second 
place received five points, and so on, 
except in the category of attendance 
in which colleges earned double the 
points.
In addition to Muir receiving the 
top prize, Eleanor Roosevelt College 
took home second place while Revelle 
College came in third.
Sixth College junior Tiffany Lee 
told the UCSD Guardian that, after her 
enjoyable experience at Spirit Night, 
she thinks there should be more spirit-
oriented events on campus throughout 
the year.
“It was really awesome seeing 
everyone come together to support our 
school, ” Lee said. “We should definitely 
do these types of events more often. ”
ERC freshman Joann Cai told the 
Guardian that her first experience with 
Spirit Night was extremely memorable. 
“The ERC Spirit Rally was a very 
fun and exciting experience, ” Cai said. 
“The event helped pump me up for the 
basketball game, which was also a nice 
break from midterms. ”
UCSD not only allowed its cur -
rent students to attend both basketball 
games for free but also offered two free 
tickets to any alumni. Additionally, 
during the break between the two bas -
ketball games, the university hosted a 
reception at Home Plate Sports Cafe 
next to RIMAC to give alumni the 
opportunity to socialize and network 
with each other.
After the basketball game, students 
traveled to the third-floor patio of 
Geisel Library to attend the annual 
Spirit Night Dance. UCSD’s own DVC: 
The Deejays and Vinylphiles Club pro -
vided entertainment and music for 
the dance, which began at 9 p.m. and 
ended at midnight.Protein Mutation and Parkinson’s Link Examined
The study’s theoretical research was conducted at the San Diego Supercomputer Center.
B Y   br ynna bol t
staff writerSee  REGENTS , page 2
See  PARKINSON’S , page 3SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
Student Regent Designate Abraham “Avi” Oved and Sadia Saifuddin reached out  UCSD students and informed them about the 
Student Regent position. Taylor Sanderson/ UCSD Guardian.
Jacky  to   j6to@ucsd.edu readers can contact2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 2, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG N EWS
DIGITAL MONKEYS By Jeff Lau
#OMG 
#LIKE US
#FOLLOW US
@ucsdguar dian
Registration for WINTER Qtr is NOW open!
Register online at 
as.ucsd.edu/saferides
A.S. Safe Rides allows register ed un dergradua te 
studen ts to  get 3  FREE rides per quarter.
Studen ts must register  at lea st 24 hours
prio r to their first ride.  A.S. Safe Rides 
asucsd asucsdmight not otherwise have access to.
“That’s another really good part of 
this position. Y ou have access to any 
kind of information you would like 
on the board that maybe the aver -
age student might not have access to, ” 
Saifuddin said. “Our job is to get that 
information and provide that to stu -
dents so that they can better organize 
on issues that they care about. ”
Furthermore, the Student Regent 
ensures that students have a voice when 
policies concerning the University of 
California are being made. Students 
are a part of the entire screening pro -
cess with the Regent Committee, inter -
viewing the three candidates which 
student leaders across the UC system 
have selected during the application 
process and first two rounds of inter -
views. Also, Saifuddin stated that the 
regents are looking for someone who 
they can work with.
“I will say the regents are not 
looking for someone that agrees with 
them, ” Saifuddin said. “I disagree with 
them on almost every single issue but 
it’s still important for them to be able to know that they can have a very 
positive working relationship with 
me, so that’s kind of what that last                            
interview gauges. ”
In addition to the application pro -
cess, Saifuddin and Oved discussed 
how they are working to stop the 
tuition hike.
“Sadia and I reached out to the 
State Government Relations Office of 
the Office of the President to really see 
how they’re gonna move forward in the 
next five months in terms of our lobby -
ing efforts, making sure that we’re on 
an effective trajectory and making sure 
that we are getting an investment, ” 
Oved said “To be honest, we were very 
disappointed with the work that they 
forwarded to us. So we’re gonna be 
going and revamping the trajectory 
of the lobbying efforts, working with 
[UC Student Association], the Council 
of Presidents and the different student 
leadership across all 10 UC campuses 
to make sure that we do have a uni -
fied movement moving forward and 
that we are going to get the state         
investment. ”
Saifuddin also talked about how a 
policy that is fair to out-of-state stu -dents is being developed.
“This [out-of-state tuition] is some -
thing that comes up really often about 
how we’re developing a policy that 
can be very equitable on out-of-state 
students while recognizing that the 
University of California was founded 
predominantly to serve the needs of 
Californians, ” Saifuddin said. “Then 
again it’s not fair that, every time we 
have some kind of financial issue, to 
just rack up the fees on out-of-state 
students as if it’s a solution. So we’re 
kind of moving towards a policy that is 
equitable for both sides. ”
Additionally, the Student Regent 
position enables students to complete 
a UC-wide project by the end of their 
terms. Saifuddin commented on how 
Student Regent initiatives have not 
been emphasized in recent years.
”In past years this hasn’t been talk -
ed about as often because, what has 
happened is, we’ve been dealing with 
crises one after the other so we’ve been 
more on the defensive than the offen -
sive, ” Saifuddin said. “But we’re hoping 
to really bring this back as a part of 
the culture of being a Student Regent. 
Of adopting some kind of project that you care about and really pursuing that 
initiative until the end. ”
Student Regents are compensated 
in a variety of ways, including free 
tuition for the two years they serve, 
a parking pass that enables them to 
park anywhere on the ten UC cam -
puses except the Chancellor and Nobel 
Laureate parking spaces, a travel bud -
get, an office on their home campus 
and a stipend for a student staff.
However, Saifuddin told the 
Guardian that there are simpler ways 
to obtain the benefits of being a 
Student Regent.
“The position is hard, and if you’re 
looking for a line on the resume, there 
are easier ways, ” Saifuddin said. “It’s a 
challenge, and the best kinds of can -
didates are the ones that care about 
the work they do. They renew their 
commitment and they renew their 
intentions for doing this work every 
single day. ”
Following the presentation, 
Saifuddin and Oved had a question and 
answer session. Student Regents Will Collaborate With UCSA T o Revise Tuition Lobbying Efforts 
▶ REGENTS,  from page 1
Tina Butoiu   cbutoiu@ucsd.edu readers can contactThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and 
Thursdays during the academic year by UCSD students 
and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this 
newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, 
without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2014, all 
rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible 
for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The 
views expressed herein do not necessarily represent 
the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of 
California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian 
is funded by advertising. Hello UT San Diego!
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Audrey Sechrest
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Aleksandra Konstantinovic
Andrew E. Huang  
Taylor Sanderson
Tina Butoiu
Charu Mehra
Brandon Yu
John Story
Teiko Yakobson
Jacqueline Kim
Kyle Somers
Nilu Karimi
Siddharth Atre
Jonathan Gao
Joselynn Ordaz
Elyse Yang
Annie Liu
Rosina Garcia
Laura Chow
Vincent PhamEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
  
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Social Media Coordinator
Training and Development
Page Layout
Sherman Aline, Allison Kubo, Sidney Gao, Brandon Yu
Copy Readers
Andrew Chao, Caroline Lee, Micaela Stone
Editorial Assistants
Shelby Newallis, Jennifer Grundman, Kriti Sarin, 
Karly Nisson, Sasha Pollock, Mario Attie, Marcus Thuillier,A COUPLE OF DERPS By Elyse Yang
N EWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 2, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
LIGHTS & SIRENSLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edu.
Friday, Jan. 23
12:01 a.m.: Fraud
Victim had advertised her room for 
rent and received a false check in 
response. Money was forwarded to 
perpetrator(s), with a total loss of 
$1,500. Report taken.
4 p.m. to 9:21 p.m.: Welfare check
An elderly woman was found inside 
a vehicle at RIMAC with the engine 
running and loud music playing. 
Checks OK.
Saturday, Jan. 24
10:33 a.m.: Information
Report received of an injured coyote 
at North Mesa Apartments. Unable 
to locate.
6:04 p.m.: Suicide Attempt
An adult man was found lying in the 
middle of the road on Voigt drive, 
near Lot 702. His stated intention 
was to commit suicide. Transported 
to County Mental Health.
Sunday, Jan. 25
12:11 a.m.: Fire
San Diego Fire Department 
extinguished a small brush fire by 
the V A Embankment.  Report Taken.
Monday, Jan. 26
5:42 a.m.: Petty Theft
A person was found going through 
the dumpsters at the South Mesa 
Apartments.  Information Only.
Tuesday, Jan. 27
1:34 a.m.: Noise Disturbance
Report sent of loud music and 
people talking at Tenaya Hall in 
Muir College. Will Cooperate.
9:10 a.m.: Assist Other Agency
A subject on the phone with a dispatcher threatened suicide 
inside a store in the UTC mall area. 
Information only.
11:01 a.m.: Under Influence of 
Drugs
An adult female under the influence 
of drugs was refusing to cooperate 
with hospital security. Closed by 
Adult Arrest/Stay Away Order Issued.
Wednesday, Jan. 28
5 p.m.: Stalking
A report was received of an 
ex-girlfriend refusing to cut contact 
after the reporting party had asked 
her to. Report Taken.
3:17 p.m.: Disturbance
An adult male was found kicking a 
tree at Warren Mall. Field Interview 
Administered.
4:28 p.m.: Welfare Check
A couple had a disagreement and the 
girlfriend threatened suicide, after 
which the boyfriend reported the 
incident. Checks OK.
Thursday, Jan. 29
1:40 p.m.: Shoplifting
Suspect attempted to steal over $100 
worth of merchandise from the 
UCSD Bookstore.  Report Taken.
2:18 p.m.: Information
A parked vehicle was found in 1 
Miramar Parking Structure with 
a window broken out. The owner 
of the vehicle was not available. 
Information only.
11:57 a.m.: Disturbance
Report received of person tossing 
eggs from the ninth floor of Tioga 
Hall. Information Only.
— SIDDHARTH ATRE
Photography Editorwith the neuron membrane. 
According to Dr. Tsigelny, the 
study required long simulations of 
molecular dynamics, and the use of 
the supercomputers was necessary to 
show each conformation of the αsyn 
protein possible in a relatively shorter 
amount of time. 
“The supercomputer was especial -
ly helpful in shortening the amount 
of time to enumerate all the possible 
conformations of αsyn, ” Tsigelny told 
the UCSD Guardian.
Tsigelny and his team were then 
able to find hidden patterns within 
the conformational changes of αsyn 
as it interacted with these zones. 
While αsyn binding was found 
to be limited within Zones 1-4, pen -etration with Zone 2 occurred more 
frequently with the mutations of the 
protein. It seemed that most of the 
mutations of αsyn changed the shape 
of the protein so that its binding to 
the neuron membrane at this site was 
increased.
The study showed that αsyn con -
tacting the neuron membrane in 
this particular site immediately and 
deeply penetrated it. The binding 
does not become toxic to the cell 
until more αsyn bind, which then 
leads to the polymerization of a ring 
structures, like pores, in the mem -
brane that allows for an unmediated 
influx of ions that ultimately destroy 
the cell.
Tsigelny added that the findings 
of the study are significant in that 
they will likely help future research -ers target these zones, particularly 
Zone 2, when developing treatments 
for Parkinson’s. 
“Our study points to the αsyn 
protein’s specific use of zones, and 
that needs to be addressed, ” Tsigelny 
said. “We can help treat Parkinson’s 
by focusing on the zones that were 
found to be binding most frequently. ”
Tsigelny and his fellow research -
ers are now focusing on how smaller 
monomers of αsyn stick together, 
and their search for possible treat -
ments will include looking for mole -
cules that create different conforma -
tions of αsyn that are less inclined 
to stick together and form larger 
structures.
Br ynna  Bol t   bbolts@ucsd.edu readers can contactFindings Will Facilitate Development Of  Zone-Specific Treatments
▶ PARKINSON’S,  from page 1
Like us on Facebook
facebook.com/ucsdguardian4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 2, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CHARU  MEHRA
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Aftenposten  
TV Captures 
Injustice of  
Sweatshops
Perhaps one of the sad -
dest results of the new global 
economy is the human rights 
atrocities that are happening in the 
garment industry. We’re talking about 
sweatshops, and they are very much a 
global issue. Although many consum -
ers are already aware of the conditions 
that workers endure to make our 
clothes, it is not common for first-
world citizens to take action. For one, 
the scale of the issue can be difficult to 
fully grasp without any real exposure. 
However, one Norwegian media 
network, Aftenposten TV , decided  to 
address the issue of comprehension 
head-on. They invited three teen -
age fashion bloggers from Norway 
to participate in a reality show that 
goes to Cambodia to visit the sweat -
shops where some of their garments 
are made. The series was called 
Sweatshop, Deadly Fashion and all 
five episodes can be watched online in 
their full form. We personally applaud 
the show for really making the three 
visitors live the same lives the workers 
do. During their short stay, the three 
bloggers shared a house — or shall we 
say a room — with one of the work -
ers, and worked in the factory for a 
full day receiving a worker’s pay, only 
to have to feed the entire cast of 9 
people with the wages they earned. 
The show should really be praised 
for providing exposure to the issue 
of sweatshops. For one, it’s a reality 
TV show on one of Norway’s biggest 
media channels about a relatively 
taboo topic. Even in the show, they 
state the conditions seen were from 
the only factory that let them in and 
that the conditions in the off-limits 
factories were probably much worse. 
This commitment from Aftenposten 
to create such a show reflects a rare 
commitment from a developed 
country to try to give exposure to the 
struggles that garment workers go 
through. This exposure is continued 
further since all the participants were 
fashion bloggers, with one girl getting 
10,000 hits on her blog daily. These 
young bloggers, through their many 
followers, have an unofficial voice that 
carries weight with it but are also not 
bound by contracts to corporations. 
Thus, they can very publicly call out 
huge brand names, like one par -
ticipant of the show did with H&M, 
without major repercussions. 
Exposure to the problem helps to 
bring consumers together to put pres -
sure on brands. For example, take the 
United Students Against Sweatshops, a 
coalition of university students across 
the U.S. which demanded universi -
ties use brands that respect workers’ 
rights. According to its website, the 
pressure succeeded, and several uni -
versities agreed to the Worker Rights 
Consortium, which is an independent 
organization that holds corporations 
accountable for violating workers’ 
rights. USAS has also actively helped 
build several living wage factories. 
What comes out of USAS is real 
action, but before reaching such 
a stage, a deeper and more pas -
sionate level of understanding was 
needed. This is why we are so glad 
the Sweatshop series was created. 
We can only hope that the outraged 
atmosphere resulting from the show 
inspires more consumer pressure so 
that more change-initiating communi -
ties like USAS are created. It’s building 
those organizations that makes a dif -
ference. Until then, Sweatshop was a 
great but small first step. Quality Over Quantity
Last week, the Obama administration announced 
that it was planning to overhaul the way doctors 
are paid in America — specifically, to focus 
payment based on the quality of care given rather than 
the volume of patients seen and procedures performed. 
While there are some causes for concern, this proposed 
policy represents an important, positive shift in the way 
the American healthcare system works.
Changes in how doctors are paid have been in the 
works for a while, according to the Washington Post. 
Before the Affordable Care Act was implemented, 
insurance networks such as Blue Cross and Aetna were 
already trying to raise the numbers of payments to 
healthcare providers that place quality of care above 
volume in their work. There is no doubt that the trend 
will continue, with Aetna forecasting its proportion of 
value-based contracts to jump from 28 percent currently 
to 75 percent by 2020. 
The biggest plus of this system will be a change in the 
way doctors are rewarded for hollow care. Vox reports 
that “most American doctors aren’t paid on whether they deliver … improved health. ” Under the current 
system, a doctor’s income is primarily dependent on 
performing a procedure or prescribing a test or scan. 
There isn’t merit-based pay: The doctor will be paid 
regardless of the success of the procedure or whether it 
actually improves the patient’s health. Obviously, there 
is a huge incentive to over-prescribe. This plan seeks to 
change that, especially because doing so will cut down 
on the approximately $210 billion of wasteful healthcare 
spending that occurs in this country annually. 
These are all good things. But the big question 
remains to be answered: How does one quantify 
improved health? A 2014 study conducted by the Rand 
Corporation and funded by the U.S. Department of 
Health and Human Services asked exactly that and 
came up with an unsatisfactory answer. As the study 
says, “We still know very little about how best to design 
and implement [value-based payment] programs to 
achieve stated goals and what constitutes a successful 
program. ” The Washington Post also reported that the 
study, “which reviewed pay-for-performance models New plans for healthcare focus on long-term positive outcomes for each individual 
patient, but which methods will be used to assess health remains unclear.EDITORIALS
See HEALTH CARE,  page 5
Anti-vaxers are like a cancer to American society, and they are 
responsible for putting hundreds of children at risk for measles. In 2014, 
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported that the United 
States experienced a record 644 cases of the measles in 27 states.
The recent Disneyland outbreak has put California on the spot and for 
good reason: This state is an embarrassment compared to the rest of the 
nation. Bloomberg.com ranked the state 39th in overall vaccination rates. 
Only 65.3 percent of California children get all shots recommended by 
the CDC. Much of the problem in Southern California is concentrated in 
middle-class and wealthy enclaves in Orange County, coastal San Diego 
County and on the coastal areas between San Luis Obispo and Malibu.
In contrast, Mississippi has the best vaccination rates in the country. 
At least 76 percent of children there receive every shot recommended by 
the CDC, likely due to a strict state law that makes it almost impossible for 
parents to exempt their children from vaccination.
The measles vaccine relies on a concept called “herd immunity. ” If a 
significant part of a population has been vaccinated, the vaccine will be 
able to protect those most at risk for the disease. However, vaccination 
rates must be high to achieve this. Even just 5 percent of the community 
forgoing vaccination can compromise this.
In 2013, measles accounted for 145,700 deaths worldwide, according 
to the World Health Organization. The CDC believes the recent outbreak 
in Disneyland originated overseas. In an increasingly globalized world, 
citizens should err on the side of caution and responsibly vaccinate their 
children.
—  JORDAN UTLEY-THOMPSON
Staff WriterAlthough Vaccinations Are Necessary and Important, The 
Process Deserves Critical ExaminationIrresponsible Movement of  Anti-Vaxers Puts Children and 
Other Vulnerable Individuals At Risk
The anti-vaccination movement is a clear example of how a legitimate 
concern turns into an irrational fear and an endangerment to society. There is 
no excuse for individuals not to vaccinate their children and protect them from 
the very diseases that vaccines have helped eradicate. 
But believe it or not, there is a bright side to the germination of this fear. It 
forces people to scrutinize the facts presented to them. Although no significant 
scientific evidence has demonstrated that vaccines cause autism, it doesn’t mean 
the vaccination process should not be examined more closely. 
According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, by the time 
a baby reaches 15 months of age, she/he is recommended to have over 20 
vaccines, sometimes receiving five within the same month. While some babies 
aren’t affected by the number of vaccines they are given, injecting up to five 
forms of disease can be too much for a body weighing less than 25 pounds. 
Although, the CDC advises following the recommended schedule, parents do 
have the option of spreading out vaccinations over a longer period of time.
In addition, the Food and Drug Administration’s regulations do not deter the 
pharmaceutical companies producing the medications and vaccines prescribed 
from seeking to maximize their profits. Therefore, it is important to recognize 
that the cost-saving measures these companies employ may not always be in the 
best interests of patients.
Even though it is safe to assume that medical professionals are not out to 
get us, it never hurts to have a more informed, balanced understanding of the 
treatments being conducted. Ultimately, individuals are responsible for their 
own health and the health of their children and, therefore, should not simply 
swallow what they are told by anyone, regardless of the letters at the end of their 
name or celebrity status.
— TINA BUTOIU
News Editor
QUICK TAKESAFTER THE PREVENTABLE OUTBREAK OF THE HIGHLY CONTAGIOUS VIRAL INFECTION MEASLES AT DISNEYLAND, 
PUBLIC AWARENESS FOCUSES ON THE PROBLEMATIC RATIONALE SURROUNDING ANTI-VACCINATION MOVEMENTS. BY CHARU MEHRA OPINION EDITOR  // ILLUSTRATION BY IRENE LUU
Marcus Thuillier & A y a t amin
opinion@ucsdguardian.orgAcross the GlobeOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 2, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
THANK YOU
TO ALL THE
PARTICIPANTS & WINNERS!
University Development
1st
PLACE
FINANCIAL
AID OFFICE
2nd PLACE
PAYROLL3rd PLACE
RADY SHCOOL OF MGMTHONORABLE
MENTIONS:
TRITON AWARD
SUN GOD AWARDDepartment of Music
University Developmentimplemented over the past decade, 
said improvements were ‘typically 
modest’ and often hard to evaluate. ”
When the Affordable Care Act 
was first introduced, the Obama 
administration was urged to push 
for merit-based pay. It didn’t do so 
and instead put into place many 
smaller experimental rules, such 
as penalties for doctors if patients 
returned to the hospital after a 
procedure was done incorrectly 
the first time. It also created 
Accountable Care Organizations, 
“larger groups of doctors that band 
together and take a lump sum 
of money to care for a specific 
group of patients, much like what the White House wants lots of 
providers to do under this new 
plan. ” At Vox’s last count, there 
were 366 ACOs in various locations 
across the United States.
However, these experiments 
favored large healthcare systems and 
hospitals with many doctors under 
their wing. Smaller businesses and 
doctors with private practices could 
have a much harder time adapting to 
the system. There is also the issue of 
patients with chronic conditions and 
how doctors will be charged for the 
care afforded to those patients, some 
of whom might not show measurable 
improvements in health, if any. 
These concerns, added 
to the fact that the Obama 
administration wants to institute most of the changes by 2018, 
could lead to major difficulties 
in implementation, especially if 
there is a switch to a Republican-
controlled White House in 
2016. After the Affordable Care 
Act deployment debacle, this 
administration and the Democratic 
Party don’t have the political capital 
to go through a similar spectacle 
yet again. 
There is most certainly a need 
for the systemic changes that were 
outlined in last week’s proposal. But 
perhaps it would be better for the 
country and the healthcare system 
as a whole if, this time, the major 
kinks are thoroughly ironed out 
and not brushed to the side in favor 
of an earlier rollout date. WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
Healthcare Changes May Hinder Smaller Businesses and Private Practices
▶ HEALTH CARE,  from page 4GOT ISSUES?
BE HEARD
BY YOUR PEERS!SEND YOUR 
LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 2, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
TEIKO Y AKOBSON
features@ucsdguardian.org
A Conversation with the
UC Student Regents
The UCSD Guardian 
had a chance to catch up 
with current student Regent Sadia 
Saifuddin , a social welfare major from 
UC Berkeley, and student Regent-Desig -
nate Abraham “ Avi” Oved , an economics 
major from UCLA. The two youngest mem -
bers of the UC Board of Regents discussed 
their thoughts on current events at the 
UC system and finding ways to get 
more involved through their          
positions.
GWhat do you think of the state becoming more involved in the 
affairs of the UC system? 
GHow do you think Brown and Napolitano working together will 
impact students, particularly in terms of tuition for in-state and out-
of-state students?GWhat are your thoughts on the recent 
tuition protests?Compiled by  Tina Butoiu  News Editor // Teiko Yakobson  Features Editor
Design by  Sherman Aline // Joselynn Ordaz
Photo by Taylor Sanderson
I think it is a political ploy to distract from 
the fact that the state has been disinvested from 
the University of California [system] over the 
past 20 years. I don’t think it’s very genuine, 
and I think it’s just coming from a place of 
“Let’s show that we care about the UC [sys -
tem] by creating more issues from it” instead of 
thinking about how the state has been investing in 
the system historically and how [it] could be doing a 
better job.
SS
It’s hard to say because it hasn’t happened 
yet. I think we’ll have a better idea by the next 
regents meeting about what process they’re 
going through, but they’ve been quite vague as 
to what their procedure is going to be, so we don’t 
know at this point.
SSI say, “Go for it. ” We need student power. 
We need student muscle to flex this time. 
There needs to be pressure both within and 
outside of the system, so students should 
make sure that they maintain that energy.
 SSFEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 2, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
GHow do you plan on addressing students’ 
concerns about tuition?
GIn regard to your presentation, what do 
you want students to know about being a 
regent? What kinds of qualities or experi -
ences make students good candidates for 
the job?GWhat do you think of the regents’ decision to postpone the vote?
GWhat are your thoughts on UC Ventures? Can you tell us more on what’s 
going on with that and how outside investors will affect UC policies? 
GWhat are some ways for student organizations 
to work with each other across campuses to 
accomplish their goals?We have a couple of different plans ahead. Saudi and I requested information from the 
state government relations office about what [its] trajectory in terms of advocacy is going to 
look like, and the information that they forwarded us was very underwhelming. We were very 
disappointed. So Saudi and I are going to go in, clean it up and really re-shape the trajectory of 
their advocacy efforts that they’re going to have in the next five months, whether that’s the talking 
points or working with different satellite campuses to make sure that we’re not only doing district 
lobbying efforts but also statewide lobbying efforts, as well, and making sure that those efforts are going 
to be complementing the student efforts that have already been happening for months and months. That includes 
students, student groups and student group leaders from all 10 UC campuses. So we also want to shape that and 
make sure that it’s a cohesive student movement going forward.
AO
I think that the biggest takeaway for the both of us is that there is no prescrip -
tion to becoming a student regent. I know that when I was applying, I was told that 
I didn’t have the right experience — or enough of it — and that I wouldn’t have a 
good chance at becoming a student regent because I was an undergrad. At the end 
of the day, there is no prescription; there is no cookie-cutter trajectory to become a 
student regent. At the end of the day, you only need to have passion, a vision and the 
skills to enact that vision. If you have that, then you are more than qualified to become 
a student regent, and that really is all you need. If you have that inkling, apply. It’s an incred -
ibly rewarding experience, and I think Saudi can speak to that.
AOThis is a sentiment that we’ve shared in our presentations in terms of why we are in the situ -
ation that we’re in, and I think that it’s really important to recognize that there’s a fundamental 
difference between the UC [system]’s vision for the UC [system] and the governor’s vision for 
the UC [system], and that’s why there’s this huge funding discrepancy that we’re seeing in the 
budget. With Gov. Brown’s [funding proposals] it’s obvious to all of us that he doesn’t want to 
maintain the quality of education nor expand it or make it an affordable education for that mat -
ter either. So it’s also making sure that people are starting to talk to each other rather than past 
each other.
AO I think it’s a bit performative. I don’t think it’s very genuine, and I don’t think 
it’s going to pass because it seems like an overwhelming number of regents on 
the board are in support of the tuition increase. So I’m not sure what rehashing 
that conversation is going to look like, whereas I think we should be focusing all of 
our efforts on the state.
SS
OK, so to clarify, outside investors are not af -
fecting the UC [system]. UC Ventures is a $250 
million pool, and that pool is going to be going 
to any kind of UC-related venture project. So any 
kind of UC affiliate — it could be students or staff 
or faculty or researchers, any UC affiliate — can 
apply for that pool and that application will then 
be evaluated by an external committee that the UC 
[system] is hiring to look at how profitable some of those 
ventures are going to be, and then that will be funded. That pool of $250 
million is coming out of the endowment of the university and out of our 
portfolio because it’s been identified that, even in the past year or two, 
there have been a number of very profitable companies that have been 
started by UC affiliates, and we missed that train in being able to make 
money off of them or encourage them and buy stocks off of those. So the 
investment committee’s job is to make money for the UC [system], so it’s 
not outside investors who are influencing UC policy. I think that may be 
a misunderstanding. It’s more about creating a venture capital pool for 
students, staff or faculty or whoever is working on that specific project to 
be able to get funding from if they qualify.
SS
Network. Reach out to people 
on other campuses that are doing 
similar work as yourself. Get involved 
in systemwide communities like [the 
UC Students Association]. Take advantage 
of systemwide opportunities because then you will 
get more exposure to those organizations and be able to 
network and strategize to do something bigger.
SS
It has been a very steep learning curve the 
first year but definitely one of the most exhila -
rating rides of my life. I would say that, along with 
everything that Avi just said, having sincerity and a deep understanding of where you come from and why you want to do this 
work [is important for becoming a student regent] because that will drive you on the most difficult of days, when you have to 
wake up early and go to sleep late and get up and catch a flight in the morning at 6 a.m. The position is hard, and if you’re 
looking for a line on the resume, there are easier ways. It’s a challenge, and the best kinds of candidates are the ones that care 
about the work they do. They renew their commitment, and they renew their intentions for doing this work every single day.
SS8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 2, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEA TURES
FT. CRAIG MARKER
FRIDA Y, FEB. 6
DOORS: 7:00 PM
SHOW: 7:30 PM
Swing by The Loft for an open 
mic night with free food!Interested student performers email avpconcerts@ucsd.edu by W ednesday, February 4th to guarantee an early set. Music, comedy, spoken word, rants... 
Everything welcome!YOU
AT THE
LOFTIt’s common for college students to want to change the world. Thanks to the Univer -
sity of San Diego Social Innovation Challenge, some lucky students in the San Diego 
area will actually get a chance to.
 The Center of Peace and Commerce at USD is offering students the chance to sub -
mit their idea for a social enterprise into a competition among college-level students in 
San Diego. The prize? Up to $75,000 in funding for their idea. 
The project aims to help students “generate ideas for innovative ventures that re -
spond to a social or environmental issue of their choice and compete for seed funding to 
launch or expand their ventures, ” their website explains.
 While it was originally only offered to graduate students in USD’s MBA program, 
SIC was made available to all USD students in subsequent years, and in 2014, for the 
first time, it is being opened up to students on all the university campuses across San 
Diego — UCSD included.
 Since its start in 2011, the program has led to funding for a number of philanthropic 
startups. The first ever first-place finisher was USD student Tiffany Owen’s project, 
“Clean California, Clean Haiti, ” which provided funding for volunteers to go door-to-
door in La Jolla and recruit families to contribute their week’s recycling to the volun -
teers who would, in turn, redeem it for cash. The cash proceeds were then put toward 
installing water purification systems in Haiti. Within a year, three of those systems were 
installed in Haiti as a result of the program.
 Not all projects expand overseas. One of 2013’s finalists (and a recipient of $5,000 
in funding) was the G.R.O.W .I.N.G. project, which sought to provide jobs for refugee 
farmers from Burma that are now living in San Diego. The money was used to provide 
the otherwise unemployable refugees with fertile land to grow produce native to their home country which they could then sell at farmers’ markets across the county.
 This year’s SIC has more funding than ever before. Fortunately for entrepreneurial 
UCSD students, there is now an opportunity for them to get in on the action. Here’s 
how:
 The application process consists of four rounds. In the first round, students must 
respond to a series of online questions (such as, who benefits most from your social 
innovation?) meant to give judges a detailed outline of the goals and scope of potential 
projects. If a student’s project is chosen to become a semifinalist, then the student must 
submit a video (around two minutes) detailing the project and a more complete outline 
of the project. From there, finalists are selected, and they are given six minutes in front 
of a live panel of judges to pitch their idea. The final round, held on May 1 this year, is 
the award ceremony. Here, finalists have 90 seconds to pitch their project in front of 
another live audience.
 Although many of the finalists from past years have had well-developed business 
plans with clearly defined expectations and results, the program is tailored to projects in 
all phases of development, with four distinct project entry categories. These categories 
range from define —  which is the category for ideas that only exist on a conceptual level 
with little to no research done yet — to scale, the category for projects that have already 
succeeded and are looking for more funding to expand their footprint.
Even though the process may sound daunting, the $75,000 in available funding 
provides students with a rare opportunity, as proven by last year’s 114 submissions. This 
year promises an even bigger turnout due to the drastic increase in eligible participants.
 Interested in joining in on the action? The deadline for submitting the Round 1 
questions is Feb. 16 on the website listed below.How You  Can
Change the 
World
 For more information, visit www.sandiegosocialinnovation.org.Written by  Sam Shapiro // Staff WriterCOMPETITION GIVES STUDENTS THE CHANCE TO TURN THEIR IDEAS INTO REALITYSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 2, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
New Y ear, 
New Goals! 
Start Y our Graduate 
Degree at APU.  
16176
Find your program today!  
apu.edu/programs
Choose from:
Business and Leadership  
MBA, Management, Leadership, Accounting
Health Care  
Athletic Training, Physical Therapy, Nursing
Education  
Educational Leadership, School Counseling and School Psychology, 
Teacher Education, Higher Education
Helping Professions  
MFT, Psychology, Social WorkJoin the 
4,200+ graduate students  
currently advancing 
their education  
at APU.
Azusa  |  High Desert  |  Inland Empire  |  Los Angeles 
Murrieta  |  Orange County  |  San Diego  |  OnlineOccupations that require a master’s degree are projected to grow the 
fastest over the next eight years, making graduate school a worthwhile 
investment as you prepare to impact your field. Start planning now 
and further your career goals with a graduate degree from Azusa Pacific University, one of the nation’s top Christian universities.Swim Ends Regular SeasonSWIM  &  DIVE
Tritons win 10 of 14 total events on Saturday to defeat 
University of San Diego 162–93 at Canyonview Pool.
In its regular season finale, the No. 
4 nationally ranked UCSD women’s 
swim team defeated crosstown rival 
and Division-I opponent University 
of San Diego 162–93 at Canyonview 
Aquatic Center this past Saturday. 
The Tritons close out their 2015 
schedule with a 9–3 record and now 
await conference championships.
Tritons took the top spot in 10 
out of 14 events to improve their 
record against USD to a near flawless 
12–1–1 over their last 14 meetings. 
Diving events were not held as 
the Toreros are without divers this 
season. Saturday was also USD’s final 
meet, who closed out its campaign 
with a winless 0–6 record. 
“Overall I thought it was a really 
solid performance as our last dual 
meet before conference, ” UCSD head 
coach Corrie Falcon said. “It’s always 
good to have a win over a crosstown 
rival. That meet tends to be close, but 
this year our women really stepped 
it up another level and we were able 
to put a pretty big gap between the 
teams. ” 
The younger Tritons ruled the 
day as sophomores Austine Lee and 
Jaimie Bryan, along with freshmen 
Julia Toronczak and Stephanie Sin 
each took first-place victories.
“It’s really encouraging when you 
have freshmen and sophomores that 
are taking a lot of the wins and 
on relays scoring a lot of points, ” 
Falcon told the UCSD Guardian. “It 
shows that our program is moving 
in the right direction, and we’re not 
graduating a lot of our talent. ”   
Lee finished the fastest in the 
100 breaststroke with a time of 
1:04.39 before recording a season 
best time of 23.95 in another win in 
the 50-freestyle race. Both of Lee’s 
victories headed a full podium sweep 
for the Tritons. Toronczak also took 
home a pair of individual top finishes 
in both the 100 breaststroke (57.06) 
and 200 backstroke (2:05.19). Sin won the 200 freestyle with 
a time of 1:53.03 while Bryan was 
first to touch the wall in the 200 
breaststroke at 2:20.86. Toronczak 
and Bryan also earned a group 
victory with senior Jaclyn Amog 
and junior Colleen Daley in the 200 
medley relay, turning in the fastest 
time at 1:45.36. Finishing behind in 
second was another UCSD group of 
Sin, Lee, freshman Jayna Wittenbrink 
and senior Eva Chen, who together 
turned in a time of 1:47.96.
Junior Maddy Huttner was also 
a winner, finishing first in the 200 
individual medley at 2:06.44, over a 
full second faster than her previous 
season best. 
In total, the Tritons turned in 
14 NCAA consideration qualifying 
times in their domination of the 
struggling Toreros.
As Saturday’s races served as the 
last meet at home, six Triton seniors 
took their final laps in Canyonview 
Pool, including five-time All-
American Amog and co-captain 
Summer Bennett. 
With an impressive regular season 
now in the books, the Triton women 
will join the men, who finished 
their last meet two weeks prior, in 
preparing for the postseason. 
UCSD will first travel to La 
Mirada for the Pacific Collegiate 
Swimming and Diving Conference 
Championships held from 
Wednesday, Feb. 18 to Saturday, Feb. 
21. The Tritons expect to take home 
their seventh straight league title 
before preparing for nationals, which 
will be held in mid-March in Indiana. 
“We are really focusing 100 percent 
on conference [championships] 
because that is our opportunity to 
qualify for nationals, ” Falcon said. 
“So for the next couple of weeks 
we’ll be building some rest into our 
workouts and really fine-tuning the 
details and making sure we’re totally 
prepared physically and mentally. ”  
PHOTO USED WITH PERMISSION FROM UCSD ATHLETICS
and a terrific 50 percent (9–18) from 
downtown. In an impressive defensive 
effort, the Tritons held their op -
ponents to just 36.4 percent (24–66) 
shooting from the field.
“We’ve had a lot of new additions 
to the team, so it’s pretty much just 
working with each other, seeing 
what works and helping each other 
out if someone is not having a great 
day, ” Bertsch said. “It’s definitely a 
100 percent team effort. We don’t 
have a single superstar; we don’t 
have somebody who is standing 
above the others and I think it’s beneficial to us in the end. ”
Bertsch finished with a game-best 
19 points. She is now leading the 
CCAA with 71.3 percent shooting 
over the season, with the next best 
far behind at 58 percent. Shokoor 
had nine points and five rebounds.  
The homestand is now over for the 
Tritons, who will go on the road next 
weekend and face two very winnable 
games against conference foes Chico 
State University (4–10) on Friday at 
5:30 p.m. and Cal State Stanislaus 
(4–10) on Saturday, also at 5:30 p.m.Women Will Return to Road This Friday 
▶ W. BASKETBALL,  from page 12
With the two wins, the Tritons have 
won eight out of their last 10 games 
and are now tied with Cal State Stan -
islaus for second in the CCAA stand -
ings. However, UCSD faces a tough 
schedule ahead as six of the final eight 
games will be played on the road.
“Our approach is going to stay the 
same as it always is, which is just to get 
after it during the week, have a great week of preparation in practice, ” Klie 
said. “Then we just go up and compete 
the way we do every night and be 
relentless. ”
The Tritons play a pair of crucial 
conference road games later this week 
when they visit Chico State University 
(11–3) on Friday and Cal State Stan -
islaus (10–4) Saturday night. ▶ M. BASKETBALL,  from page 12Men Are Tied for Second In CCAA Standingsreaders can contact
  marcus  thuillier     mthuilli@ucsd.edu 
readers can contact
daniel  sung     d2sung@ucsd.edu B Y  brandon  yu
sports editor
readers can contact
BRANDON  YU     BCYU@ucsd.edu 10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 2, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
CLASSIFIEDS$
Guar dian Classi/f_ieds ar e FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifieds
crossword
ACROSS
1 Dear columnist?5 Neighborhood near TriBeCa9 Alternative to Hires13 SST nose feature15 À tout __: at all costs16 Aunt with a “Cope Book”17 “Cimarron” actress Irene’s carriage?19 Worker’s end-of-week cry20 Abbr. in some Canadian place names21 2002 Best New Artist Grammy winner Jones22 Cook in a pan23 Makers of knockoff artillery?26 Masters partner28 Highwayman29 Film director Petri30 They’re rarely DHs32 Nordic winter wear?36 Devilish sort39 “Bambi” character40 Airer of fashion infomercials?42 Promotes43 Height: Pref.44 “No kidding!”47 À la James Bond50 Film festival city guidebook for pedes
-
trians?53 “80’s Ladies” country singer K.T.54 Eager, in dialect55 “Do the Right Thing” pizzeria owner58 Fish’s last meal?59 Cruise down the Rhine, perhaps?61 “__ the picture!”62 Car with a four-ring logo63 Greek New Ager64 Deep-six65 Column-lined pedestrian way66 Spunkmeyer of cookie fameDOWN
1 Contributes
2 Moët et Chandon label word
3 Elegant tableware
4 Over there, old-style
5 Encourage
6 Heart, e.g.
7 Impressive note
8 Moronic intro?
9 Holds for questioning
10 Debated
11 Composer Shostakovich
12 Like AAA-rated bonds, as bonds go
14 Actor Sean et al.
18 Activist Chaz
22 Peloponnesian War victor24 Like Jane Doe: Abbr.
25 Belief involving sorcery
26 Baja boss
27 “thirtysomething” actor Ken
30 Some PX patrons
31 __ cit.: footnote abbr.
33 Strands at a chalet, perhaps
34 Athenian reformer
35 Acid in gastric juice, chemically36 Nonstop37 Jazzman Saunders
38 Bit of trickery
41 Church area
42 Leeward Island north of Nevis44 Small-time45 Tries one’s hand (at)
46 Unites (with)
47 Lake Huron port in Canada
48 Rice, e.g.: Abbr.49 Bug51 Tiler’s need
52 Positive-thinking
56 Lambs: Lat.
57 Floral rings59 Box score figs.60 Shanghai-born NBAerBIKES
Micargi Rover GX 26” Women’s Beach 
Cruiser - $150. Ridden only once. Perfect condition orange women’s beach cruiser. This bike is a beautiful orange metallic. It comes with a new basket and bell. Listing ID: 117668757 at ucsdguardian.org/clas
-
sifieds for more information
TREK 3 SPD ALUMINUM 26in Women’s 
Cruiser with Basket - $295. Costs $600. Selling for ½ price. Super comfortable cruiser seat with a rack rail to add on. Seat is adjustable with a quick release. Barefoot pedals. Lock is extra $25. Brand new with two keys. Listing ID: 117668758 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Sitting Exercise Bike - $40. Exercise bike. 
Some scratches, in fair condition. Still works, except for the heart rate monitor
-
ing. Will need a way to pick it up. Listing ID: 116914313 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
BOATS
New 9x9L Stainless Steel Propeller - $80. Brand new, never pre-owned propeller. Made in the U.S.A. Listing ID: 117668815 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
1959 Classic Cruizon Runabout Boat, 
Mahogany - $5495. For sale or trade. Is my 1959 Classic Cruizon Runabout Boat. The boat top deck has been sanded and refinished with five coats of satin marine varnish. The hull was sanded down and repainted with three coats of primer and five coats of white marine enamel. I am the second owner of this boat. The entire motor has been rebuilt. New Holley carburetor, electronic ignition, distributor and wires, electric fuel pump, battery, etc. Everything is original including the turquoise and white upholstery. Listing ID: 117668814 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
1998 Challenger Bass Boat No Motor - 
$3400. It’s a nice 1998 Challenger Bass Boat. 19ft. comes from Arizona. Never been on salt water. Needs outboard motor. Listing ID: 117668813 at ucsdguardian.org/clas
-
sifieds for more information
FURNITURE
Bedroom Set - $75. Full/Queen headboard and frame. Matching desk with bookcase. Great condition. Listing ID: 117666041 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
China Cabinet - $300. China Cabinet. 
L36”xH66”xW15” with glass front and three drawers. Listing ID: 113547883 at ucsd
-
guardian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tion
Modern White Side Table - $55. Ceramic 
white gloss. Approximately 14”d x 21”h. Listing ID: 117668770 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
t
your visio n,
our missio n.
outfitters@ucsd.eduCreate custom a pparel to 
promote your student 
organiza tion with Triton 
Outfitter's new Made TO Order program!
LECTURENOTES
IS HIRING
NOTETAKERS
FOR SPRING ‘ 15
(STARTING 6th WEEK!)
Pick up an applicati on at
Lectu re Not es in the
Student Center
Must have 3.0 or bet ter
Applic ation & SAM PLE NO TES
 are du e Wed of fi nals week
as-lecture-notes@ucsd.eduwww.ucsdguardian.org/advertising
.com/ucsdguardian
CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 2, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
ICE HOCKEY: UCSD VS SDSU
SAN DIEGO STATE UNIVERSITYFRI2.06 • 9pmTahrirCAMPUS
CALENDAR
FEB 02 - FEB 082015 POWERED BY THE CHANCELLOR’S OFFICE AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guar dian
Calendar
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar @
ucsdgu ardian .orgMON2.02 WED2.04 TUE2.03
12pm
BLACK HISTORY MONTH OPENER - PRICE 
CENTER PLAZA
Black Student Union will be hosting the annual 
Black History Month Opener; welcoming UC students, faculty, staff and members of the community to gather together in celebrating the 
achievements, struggles and persistence of people 
of African descent through spoken-word poetry and 
musical performances.
7pm
MANDELA: LONG WALK TO FREEDOM - THE 
GREAT HALL AT I-HOUSE
The Global Forum at I-House will be having a free 
showing of the movie Mandela: Long Walk to 
Freedom. Starring Idris Elba and Naomie Harris, 
Mandela: Long Walk to Freedom is a chronicle of 
Nelson Mandela's life journey from his childhood in a rural village all the way through to his 
inauguration as the first democratically elected 
president of South Africa. We will also be serving 
free popcorn and drinks at this event.11am
ART AND SOUL: DIY VALENTINE’S DAY 
CARDS - THE ZONE
It's that time of year again, love is in the air! 
Celebrate Valentine's Day by making cards for your special someone at the Zone. Workshops are free; all supplies and materials are provided. 
Space is limited and first come, first served!
12pm
UCDC INFO SESSION: SOCIAL JUSTICE 
CAREERS IN WASHINGTON - WOMEN’S 
CENTER
Part of the event series "The Real World Career 
Series: Building Skills for a Diverse Interconnected 
Community," presented by the Career Services 
Center, the Cross-Cultural Center, the Ethnic 
Studies Department, the UCSD Women's Center, the UCSD Black Resource Center, the UCSD Raza Resource Center, and the LGBT Resource Center.
5pm
JAZZ IN PARIS GLOBAL SEMINAR - 
INTERNATIONAL CENTER OCEANIDS 
PAVILION
Interested in spending 5 weeks in Paris, France 
this summer? Come to our info session to learn 
more about program's courses and steps to apply!FRI2.06
11am
AN “EDUCATION” EDUCATION- SSC RM 400
Stop by SSC 400, grab some free popcorn, and learn more about the communities we serve. Education access and quality in the San Diego community varies radically based on many factors. 
In order to empower and support the students with 
whom we work, we must better understand the barriers placed in front of them and their schools. To that end, we'll be showing documentaries on education in the United States with emphasis on its 
relation to poverty and institutionalized classism 
and racism.
9pm
UCSD VS. SDSU ICE HOCKEY GAME - SAN 
DIEGO STATE
Undefeated UCSD ice hockey team will take on their 
local rivals for the first time in 5 years. Come you to support your favorite team while jamming to the tunes of UCSD Pepband. Sitting is limited due to the 
large number of UCSD and SDSU fans attending. So 
make sure to grab your friends and come early.10am
STUDENT HEALTH ADVOCATES RECRUITMENT 
2015 - STUDENTS HEALTH CONFERENCES, 
MURRAY’S CONF RM
Are you interested in providing health education to 
your peers? Do you want to develop your leadership 
skills? If so, then apply to the Student Health Advocate 
Program (SHA)! Applications will be distributed at the 
Information Sessions.
4pm
RAZA SI, GUERRA NO: MEMORIES OF CHICANO 
MORATORIUM - INSTITUTE OF THE AMERICAS, 
MALAMUD RM
Come meet and listen to Chicana & Chicano leaders 
that played instrumental roles in the creation of the National Chicano Moratorium Committee. The 
Moratorium was a coalition of several community 
organizations in East Los Angeles that addressed the impact of the military draft and the American war in Viet Nam. Our special guests will be Soledad "Chole"□ Alatorre, Gloria Arellanes, Katarina Davis, Irene Tovar and Rosalio Munoz. Light refreshments will be 
provided.
SAT2.07
11am
APSA’S 20TH ANNUAL BENEFIT TALENT SHOW - 
PRICE CENTER WEST
This year, APSA is presenting the 20th Annual Benefit 
Talent Show! If you have talent that you wish to show off, come join our auditions to compete against other students on campus and throughout the San Diego 
area! APSA's Talent Show provides you with 
opportunities to perform alongside well-known artists ranging from David Choi to Wong Fu Productions etc. 
11:30am
SAN DIEGO ZOO & BALBOA PARK BUS TRIP
Ticket price ($17) includes transportation to/from UCSD, entrance into San Diego Zoo, and bus trip around zoo park. Event is open to UCSD undergraduate studentsTHU2.05
11am
MIDTERM MOVIE MARATHON - BLACK 
RESOURCE CENTER
Come relax, de-stress, unwind and have a laugh 
during midterms. Old school Black movies (from 
80's-90's) will be on continuous play.
1pm
FREE SEXUAL HEALTH INFO SESSIONS - 
STUDENTS HEALTH SERVICES, RM 207
These FREE 50-minute sessions cover topics including 
birth control, sexually transmitted infections, safer sex, and more. Receive a free safer sex packet just for attending. No appointment necessary.
6pm
TRANSFER MIXER - CROSS-CULTURAL CENTER, 
COMUNIDAD
Join us for food and networking. Relax with other 
transfer students and destress from classes.
TONY FURTADO
W/ THE WESTERN COLLECTIVE  
Wednesday, Feb. 4  
Doors: 8pm • Show: 9pm
The Loft • FREE for UCSD 
Students; $10 General
ASCE PRESENTS:  
YOU@THE LOFT  
Friday, Feb. 6  
Doors: 7pm • Show: 7:30pm
The Loft •  FREEUpcoming at
Upcoming attheloft.ucsd.edu
universitycenters.ucsd.eduROUND TABLE
FRIDAYSROUND TABLE
FRIDAYSRound Table Fridays: 
EPIC NIGHT 
PRODUCTIONS
Friday, Feb. 6  
Round Table Plaza • FREEBOARD & BREW  
Tuesday, Feb. 3  
Doors: 7pm
The Loft • FREEBLABBERMOUTH
Monday, Feb. 2  
Doors: 6:30pm • Show: 7pmThe Loft • FREE
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
BRANDON  YU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 2, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
BY DANIEL SUNG // SENIOR STAFF WRITER 
Despite having its six-game win streak 
snapped last week, the UCSD men’s basketball 
team returned to the court this past Friday and 
Saturday without any sign of a setback, securing 
two home victories against Cal State East Bay 
(2–12) and Cal State Monterey Bay (1–13). 
In front of a near-4,000 strong RIMAC Arena 
crowd in Friday’s annual Spirit Night game, the 
Tritons were able to overcome their early shoot -
ing woes to run away with a 65–54 win against 
Cal State East Bay.
“ Any time you get a full building and there’s 
a ton of energy when you make a play, you can 
just feed off that and guys can get things going 
on a little run, ” UCSD head coach Eric Olen told 
the UCSD Athletics Department. “We were able 
to create a little separation, and the crowd was a 
big part of that. ” 
Both teams struggled shooting early on. The 
Tritons converted on only three of 16 from 
three point land in the first half. East Bay put up 
similar numbers, shooting only 35 percent from 
the field on 5–12 from deep. However, it was 
UCSD who held a slight 22–21 edge going into 
intermission.
The Tritons wasted no time in the second half 
to make up for their earlier subpar shooting. The 
team’s combination of defense and three-point 
baskets gave them a 16-point cushion with six 
minutes remaining in the game. UCSD shot 
significantly better in the second half, making 44 
percent of its threes, while holding East Bay to 
only 9–26 from the field. 
“We were a little more aggressive [in the sec -
ond half], ” Olen said. “We got a lot of the same 
looks. We felt like if we continued to get the 
same shots we did in the first half that we would 
certainly score enough points and that was the case. ”Sophomore guard Adam Klie notched his 
first double-double as a Triton, scoring 12 points 
— nine of which came in the second period — 
and bringing down a career-best 11 rebounds.
Junior forward Hunter Walker finished with 
a game-high 17 points and also added four re -
bounds and a pair of assists to his statline. It was 
Walker’s second straight game with 17 points 
and he now leads the team in scoring, averaging 
12.6 points per game.
UCSD continued its hot shooting the follow -
ing night, coasting by Cal State Monterey Bay in 
an 84–61 victory.
The home team started the first seven minutes 
of the game on a 10–0 run. The Tritons never 
trailed in the entire game, outscoring the Otters 
43–21 in a dominant first half. Sophomore 
guard Jeff Van Dyke seemed to have found his 
stroke from the three point line, as the Carlsbad 
native scored all of his 15 points from deep. 
Klie continued to perform on the offensive 
end. The reigning California Collegiate Athletics 
Association Freshman of the Y ear finished the 
game with 17 points on 72 percent shooting 
from the field. 
Again, the team’s ability to convert turnovers 
into three pointers was incredibly effective 
throughout the entire game. UCSD had eight 
steals and forced 11 Otter turnovers while only 
losing the ball themselves five times. At one 
point, the lead grew to as large as 30 in the 
second half.
“We talk about it every day in practice; what 
it comes down to is really just competing on the 
defensive end — getting down, getting stops and 
getting the rebounds, ” Klie said. “Then we can 
go out and do our thing on offense. When we do 
that, we have a lot of success. ”Strong second half propels UCSD to victory in front of jam-packed 
RIMAC Arena on Friday night, and Tritons dominate following day. 
BY MARCUS THUILLIER // EDITORIAL ASSISTANT 
A staggering attendance for Spirit Night at 
RIMAC Arena this past Friday witnessed the 
UCSD women’s basketball team coming up on 
top 64–60 against fellow postseason contender 
Cal State East Bay (12–8 overall and 7–7 in the 
California Collegiate Athletics Association). 
The following night, the Tritons dominated 
from end to end and handed a 73–56 loss to 
Cal State Monterey Bay (4–15, 2–12 in CCAA 
standings). 
The Tritons now hold an 11–8 overall record 
and a 9–5 record in CCAA play, possessing the 
fifth spot in the conference. 
UCSD suffered a slow start on Friday eve -
ning and quickly trailed by seven after giving 
up two layups and a three pointer. The Tritons 
responded immediately, coming back to tie the 
score at 11 all with a little less than 10 minutes 
to play in the half. From then on, it was all 
Tritons for the rest of the half, as the home 
team outscored its opponent 26–10 and went 
into intermission holding a comfortable 40–23 
advantage. 
“ After the first three or four minutes, I 
thought we were passive but we came out we 
had great energy, ” UCSD head coach Heidi 
VanDerveer said. “I think we did a great job to 
stay right with things for 40 minutes. ”
However, the second frame was a reminder 
that no game is won halfway through. East 
Bay came back and cut the deficit to make it 
a single-digit game, 55–47 with a little more 
than four minutes and 39 seconds to play. The 
Pioneers continued to inch closer through the 
half; the Tritons were barely clinging to a 60–57 
lead with 22 seconds left in the game. 
Junior guard Jamie Katuna then came up 
in the clutch, hitting the four free throws that would eventually secure the UCSD victory, de -
spite East Bay’s efforts that cut the lead to 62–60 
with only eight seconds remaining.
“I think the energy from the crowd was 
very helpful, especially towards the end when 
we were kind of losing our composure and 
they were making crazy shots, ” senior guard 
Miranda Seto said. “The crowd was just right 
there with us. ”
It was a tale of two halves for the Tritons, who 
shot an impressive 57.1 percent (16–28) from 
the field in the first period but fell to 23.1 per -
cent (6–26) from the floor in the second half. 
Hoever, Seto had a stellar night, finishing 
with 20 points on 55 percent (5–9) shooting 
while going 4–5 from three-point range. Junior 
forward Farrah Shokoor contributed with 
a team-best eight rebounds and also had 11 
points. Katuna added 15 points off the bench in 
one of her best games of the season. 
The Tritons only picked up their pace Satur -
day, pummeling Cal State Monterey Bay 73–56 
in another CCAA contest.
UCSD started the game off well this time, 
jumping to an early 8–2 lead. However, the Tri -
tons were not done, as three consecutive three-
pointers gave them a dominant 24–6 advantage. 
Although the Otters cut the deficit to 12 points 
with nine minutes and 33 seconds remaining in 
the first half, UCSD still took an overwhelming 
47–23 lead at the intermission after a senior 
forward McKennan Bertsch tip-in.
After halftime, the lead went up to 25 points 
after another three-pointer from the Tritons. 
Monterey Bay could never close the gap to 
under 18 points and UCSD cruised to a second 
straight win.   
UCSD shot 50 percent (27–54) from the field Triton women escape with a 64–60 win over Cal State East Bay on Spirit 
Night before dominating Cal State Monterey Bay 73–56 on Saturday.  SPIRIT NIGHT SWEEPBaseball
Softball
W. Water Polo
M. Tennis
Baseball     2/03
     2/04
     2/05
     2/06
     2/06VS Western Oregon
VS Azusa Pacific
VS Hartwick
VS Azusa Pacific
VS Colorado MesaUPCOMING
UCSD
GAMES
See  M. BASKETBALL , page 9 See  W. BASKETBALL , page 9
WOMEN'S  BASKETBALLMEN'S  BASKETBALL65-54
64-60PHOTO BY ALWIN SZETO / GUARDIAN FILE
PHOTO BY ALWIN SZETO / GUARDIAN FILE
PHOTO BY YASMEEN ELSAWAF  / GUARDIAN