VOLUME 48, ISSUE 43  MONDAY , APRIL 6, 2015 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
THE NEXT A.S. 
PRESIDENT?
READ THE DEBATE TRANSCRIPT 
AND SEE WHAT THE 
CANDIDATES HAVE TO SAY. WE 
ASKED THE POTENTIAL A.S. 
COUNCIL LEADERS TO GIVE 
THEIR THOUGHTS ON CRITICAL 
CAMPUS ISSUES.
A.S.  ENDORSEMENTS
SOFTBALL  SWEEPS  CHICOThe  Guardian  Voter  Guide
TRITONS  T AKE  3  OF  4  GAMESopinion,  P age   4  &  5
SPORTS,  P age  12
MONDAY
H 64 L 54TUESDAY
H 66 L 55
WEDNESDAY
H 65 L 52THURSDAY
H 70 L 55
FORECAST
VERBATIM
HISTORICALLY, COUNCIL 
HAS HAD PROBLEMS WITH 
TRANSPARENCY AND VOTER 
TURNOUT, AND THE LIAISON, 
MARKETING AND RESEARCH 
DEPARTMENTS THAT 
SUVONNASUPA HOPES TO 
CREATE WILL RECTIFY THIS, 
INSTEAD OF BECOMING A 
MEMBER OF AN ORGANIZATION 
JUST TO PUT IT ON YOUR 
RESUME.”
- A.S. ENDORSEMENTS
 OPINION  PG. 4 
INSIDE
LIGHTS AND SIRENS.........3
UCEN REFERENDUM  ....... 5
SLATES OVERVIEW  .......... 8
EVENTS CALENDAR........10
TRACK AND FIELD  ......... 12“Fea tures,  P AGE  6
PHOTO BY EMILY TIPTON/ GUARDIANAROUND CAMPUS
The UCSD Chicano/Latino Staff 
Association presented the 14th annual 
Cesar E. Chavez Celebration Kickoff 
Luncheon and Awards Ceremony in 
Price Center Ballroom East on April 1. 
The event was meant to introduce the 
month’s upcoming celebration of Cesar 
E. Chavez and his legacy.
The luncheon also served as an 
opportunity for the association to 
recognize individuals who it believes 
have furthered Chavez’s ideals in their 
communities, including this year’s 
UCSD undergraduate essay contest 
winners.
The luncheon opened around 11:30 
a.m. with the farmworker’s unity clap, a 
signal typically used at farmworkers’ meetings to call attention and show 
unity, according to the events hosts. 
The theme of farmworker solidarity 
continued with a moment of silence to 
consider those who made possible the 
meal provided at the event. 
The new Vice Chancellor of Student 
for Equity, Diversity and Inclusion, Dr. 
Becky Petitt, spoke for the first time 
after being appointed on March 23. 
Petitt encouraged students to view this 
month as an opportunity to consider 
what contributions they wanted to 
make happen in the world.
The keynote speaker of the event 
was Mexican-American cartoonist Lalo 
Alcaraz. Alcaraz is most well-known 
as the author of “La Cucaracha, ” the 
first nationally syndicated, politically 
themed Latino comic strip, and as a 
producer and author on the upcoming 
Fox program “Bordertown, ” created by Seth MacFarlane.  
During his speech, Alcaraz spoke 
of how to best honor and celebrate 
Chavez. 
“We can start by becoming strong 
citizens, ” Alcaraz said. “We can honor 
our parents and our families, and by 
that I mean honor our culture, also. ”
Alcaraz went on to present several 
of his cartoons that addressed topics 
such as the farmworkers movement, 
Arizona SB1070, the shooting of 
Michael Brown and the Murrieta 
Crisis. 
The time was also taken earlier in 
the luncheon to announce the winners 
of the first UCSD Cesar E. Chavez 
Undergraduate Essay Contest. Two 
first-place recipients were awarded 
a cash prize of $600, a second-place ASCE Releases Lineup for 
Sun God Festival 2015
Associated Students Concerts and Events 
announced that Snoop Dogg will be headlining 
this year’s Sun God’s Festival. The music  lineup 
also includes Jhene Aiko, OK Go and STRFKR, and was 
posted on the event’s website last Friday morning.
ASCE Director Seraphin Raya told the UCSD 
Guardian that ASCE used a student entertainment sur -
vey to determine which students to invite.
“Our biggest factor has and always will be student 
interest. After Childish Gambino, Snoop Dogg and 
Jhene Aiko topped the suggestions made in the ASCE 
Entertainment Survey, ” Raya said. “We put together a 
diverse lineup of talent that would attract students and 
that we know have a great stage presence. ”
Raya acknowledged Snoop Dogg does have a drug 
history, but stated that his music does not promote 
destructive behavior. 
“Our concerns lie in lethal or unsafe drug use. This 
includes the consumption of untested, unknown rave 
drugs, ” Raya said. “While Snoop Dogg has a very inter -
esting history, his music is traditionally paired with over-intoxication or party drugs. ”
In regards to the selection process, Raya discussed 
how ASCE considers performer availability and cost.
“Our process begins with a brainstorm of different 
talent. This brainstorm typically yields 400 to 500 poten -
tial performers. From here, we begin the conversation 
with agents to see who is and is not available and within 
our budget, ” Raya said. “From there, we take into account 
student interest and create first, second and third choices 
for each slot in the lineup. ”
Raya also mentioned that security for the festival will 
be provided by two companies, including Staff Pro, and 
that the amount of paid security will be the same as in 
previous years. 
“Staff Pro will be the company on the field. They have 
always done a great job on site and this year they will 
not need to worry about splitting their efforts to North 
Campus as well, ” Raya said. “ Also, the move to Sunday 
allows them to have more of their ‘ A-team’ at the event. ”
Food will be provided in the beer garden and on 
Hopkins Lane, where identification scanners will be used   B y  tina  Butoiu    NEws editor 
Awards Luncheon Commemorates Cesar Chavez 
Keynote speaker Lalo Alcaraz discussed the preservation of farmworker culture and ideals.  See  SGF , page 2
See  CHAVEZ , page 3SUN GOD FESTIVALCampuswide
Candidates
Engage in 
Public DebateA.S. COUNCIL
The UCSD Guardian 
moderated discussions about 
issues including political 
transparency and funding.
See DEBATE , page 3Presidential and vice-presidential 
candidates for A.S. Council elections 
participated in public debates at 
Price Center Plaza on April 2 and 3. 
Candidates received three minutes 
to answer each of five questions on 
issues, such as student spaces and 
finances.
Tritons United presidential 
candidate and Earl Warren College 
senior Dominick Suvonnasupa 
expressed hope of enacting a liaison 
program to raise the voter-turnout 
rate above the historic 20 percent. 
“We have proposed organization 
within A.S. [Council] to make it more 
student-centered, ” Suvonnasupa said. 
“We’ d go out and talk to them and 
get an idea of what they need and 
what they want. That way, when we 
propose leg changes and ideas we 
can meet with them directly via our 
liaison program. ”
His vice-presidential candidate, 
Warren College junior Bryan 
Dierking, proposed creating a new 
office of publicity to increase student 
awareness of issues. 
Presidential candidate for 
Students Determined and Eleanor 
Roosevelt College senior Travis 
Miller similarly spoke of instituting 
weekly visits to student organizations 
and emphasized the importance of 
being accessible to students, insisting 
that A.S. Council meetings should 
not be the only time that students and 
representatives are able to interact. 
Muir College junior Taylor 
Valdivia and Marshall College junior 
Krystl Fabella, Students Determined 
vice-presidential candidates of 
student affairs and external affairs, 
respectively, spoke of making 
campus politics relevant to student 
organizations again. Both candidates 
stressed their belief in transparency 
over publicity.
Candidates were then asked for 
their stances on the closing of student 
spaces, including the ongoing fight to 
keep the Che Cafe open. 
Miller called student-run 
organizations the lifeblood of campus 
and emphasized the need to discuss 
future plans for the spaces.
“It’s time that someone on this 
campus started talking about what 
will happen to these spaces, ” Miller 
said. “What will happen to the Che 
[Cafe]?”
Suvonnasupa agreed that 
student-run spaces are essential to 
the campus, but added that if the 
Che Cafe was not reaching enough 
students, perhaps it was time for the 
space to be reallocated.
“ As leaders, I feel it’s important to 
not let personal opinions get in the CULTURE
B Y  Br ynna Bol t
Senior STAFF WriterB Y  Br ynna Bol t
Senior STAFF Writer
Tritons United presidential candidate Dominick Suvonnasupa and Students Determined candidate Travis Miller discussed 
restructuring A.S. Council and increasing student involvement, among other things. Photos by Emily Tipton / UCSD Guardian.VOTER GUIDE P.  4 | DEBATE TRANSCRIPT P.  62 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 6, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG N EWS
DIGITAL MONKEYS By Jeff Lau
A NEW OPPORTUNITY AWAITS YOU @
Apply today.
916.739.7105 | mcgeorge.edu
Sacramento, California
JD certificates in  Advocacy, Government and Public Policy and
International Legal Studies
JD concentrations in  Business, Criminal Justice, Environmental Law,
Intellectual Property, and Tax LawAreas of  excellence in  Health and Water Resources
Nine innovative clinics, including  Criminal Appellate Advocacy, Elder and 
Health Law, Federal Defender, Immigration Law, Legislative and Public 
Policy, and Prisoner Civil RightsPACIFIC
McGEORGE  
SCHOOL OF LAW
Kristian Corby, ’13PACIFIC
McGEORGE  
SCHOOL OF LAWPACIFIC
McGEORGE  
SCHOOL OF LAW
Registration for SPRING Qtr is NOW open!
Register online at 
as.ucsd.edu/saferides
A.S. Safe Rides allows register ed un dergradua te 
studen ts to  get 3  FREE rides per quarter .
Studen ts must register  at lea st 24 hours
prior t o their first ride.  A.S. Safe Rides 
asucsd asucsd
Gov. Jerry Brown introduced an 
executive order issuing mandatory 
water restrictions on California 
residents on Wednesday, April 1. Under 
the executive order, Californians are 
expected to reduce their water usage 
by 25 percent. 
This is the first time in state history 
that residents, businesses and farms 
face penalties for not reducing their 
water usage. The restrictions come as 
California enters its fourth consecutive 
year of drought conditions.
Brown released the details of his 
executive order at a news conference 
on Wednesday.
“It’s going to save water by 
mandating real reductions in a 
number of areas, ” Brown said. “It’s 
going to affect golf courses, people’s 
lawns, universities, campuses, all sorts of institutions. ”
The news conference took place 
during the annual measuring of the 
snowpack at the Phillips Station in the 
Sierra Nevada. 
According to the California 
Department of Water Resources, the 
Sierra snowpack, which provides 
Californians with a third of their water 
supply, is at 5 percent of its normal 
size for this time of year. This was the 
first year since its commencement in 
1941 that the early-April measurement 
found no snow at the Phillips Station. 
“We’re standing on dry grass and 
we should be standing on five feet of 
snow, ” Brown pointed out.
The executive order calls on the 
State Water Resources Control Board 
to implement the restrictions.
Mark Weston, chair of the San 
Diego County Water Authority Board 
of Directors, released a statement on 
Wednesday, April 1 regarding Brown’s 
executive order. “Today’s call to action by the 
governor and the record-low April 
snowpack, ” Weston said, “emphasize 
just how urgent water conservation 
is for San Diego County and the rest 
of California. ”
According to Weston, the San 
Diego County Water Authority’s board 
of directors will meet on April 23 to set 
water-supply cutback levels. Weston 
subsequently urged San Diegans to 
start cutting back on water usage now.
“Reduce landscape irrigation, 
trim shower times, fix all leaks 
immediately, ” Weston advised. “ And 
urge your friends and neighbors to do 
the same. ”
Weston also pointed out the 
importance of beginning to conserve 
water as soon as possible.
“By conserving now, we preserve 
our limited storage reserves in case 
next winter’s snowpack is as meager 
as this one, ” Weston said.
In addition to implementing restrictions on water usage, the 
executive order calls on the 
Department of Water Resources 
to lead a statewide initiative to 
replace 50 million square feet of 
lawns and ornamental turf with 
drought-tolerant landscapes. The 
Department of Water Resources 
will provide funding to allow 
for replacement programs in 
underserved communities.
The executive order also laid 
the groundwork for a time-limited 
statewide appliance rebate program, 
which would provide monetary 
incentives for California residents 
to replace inefficient household 
devices. The California Energy 
Commission, the Department 
of Water Resources and the State 
Water Resources Control Board will 
implement this program together. CALIFORNIA
Gov. Brown Issues Unprecedented Statewide Water Restrictions
The San Diego County Water Authority Board of Directors will meet to determine household cutback levels on April 23. 
B Y  Maria Sebas
Staff Writer
to verify California IDs. Raya said 
ASCE was working with San Diego 
vendors and HDH to provide food 
options during the festival. 
“Our food vendor committee is 
currently working with local San 
Diego vendors to ensure that we 
provide an assortment of food at 
SGF15.  One of our requirements for 
food vendors is that everything on 
the field is priced under $10, ” Raya said. “This year we are working in 
collaboration with HDH to bring 
both of their food trucks into the 
event for Dining Dollar options. ”
The festival will also feature car -
nival rides, including a Ferris wheel, 
Sizzler, Twister, a two-story slide and 
a house of mirrors. Furthermore, 
ASCE is working with a carnival 
vendor to bring in other carnival 
games with SGF and carnival-
themed prizes. Acrobatic perfor -
mances will be hosted throughout the day on three to four mini stages 
located across the field.
Undergraduate students must reg -
ister for the festival between April 4 
and 24 in order to be eligible to attend 
the festival. Graduate student tickets 
are being sold for $45 at the UCSD 
Box Office in Price Center Plaza. 
Commemorative wristbands will be 
available for purchase at the event and 
the proceeds will go to Sun God For 
a Cause. This year’s festival charity is 
Photocharity, a San Diego-based orga -nization that has a 90-percent success 
rate of getting homeless youth off the 
streets through music therapy.
Student DJs and bands will com -
pete to perform at Sun God 2015 dur -
ing the DJ Battle and Battle of Bands 
events being held at The Loft on April 
17 and 28, respectively. Voting for the 
performers is open online until Friday.ASCE Working with HDH to Offer Dining Dollar Payment Options Inside Festival
▶ SGF , from page 1Maria Sebas  msebas@ucsd.edu readers can contact
TINA  BUTOIU  TBUTOIU@ucsd.edu readers can contact
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and 
Thursdays during the academic year by UCSD students 
and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this 
newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, 
without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2015, all 
rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible 
for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The 
views expressed herein do not necessarily represent 
the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of 
California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian 
is funded by advertising. @_@ We’ll never get to leave.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.orgBusiness Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Aleksandra Konstantinovic
Andrew E. Huang  
Taylor Sanderson
Tina Butoiu
Kriti Sarin
Charu Mehra
Cassia Pollock
Marcus Thuillier
John Story
Teiko Yakobson
Jacqueline Kim
Kyle Somers
Nilu Karimi
Siddharth Atre
Jonathan Gao
Joselynn Ordaz
Sherman Aline
Elyse Yang
Annie Liu
Rosina Garcia
Jennifer Grundman
Laura Chow
Vincent PhamEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
  
Associate News Editor
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Social Media Coordinator
Training and Development
Page Layout
Charu Mehra 
Distribution
Christopher Graves, Josef Goodyear
Copy Readers
Andrew Chao, Caroline Lee, Sage Christian, Marissa Barber, 
Heejung Lim
Editorial Assistants
Shelby Newallis, Karly Nisson, Mario Attierecipient awarded $500 and a third-
place recipient received $200. All also 
received a certificate.
The prompt for the essay 
competition, which was open to all 
undergraduates, asked students to 
discuss which of Chavez’s 10 core 
values they most identified with and 
explain how they hoped to use these 
values to effect positive changes in 
the Chicano community and greater 
society. Furthermore, participants 
were asked to write on how they have 
contributed to equity and social justice 
at UCSD in particular.
One of the two first-place winners 
of the undergraduate essay contest was 
Thurgood Marshall College first-year 
transfer student Alexis Buz. 
Buz chose to write on the 
values of sacrifice, service to others, 
preference to help the most needy and 
determination. He further indicated 
to the UCSD Guardian that his 
background greatly affected his choice 
of topic.
“Since I arrived to Stockton, CA at 
the age of two, I grew up in an area that was a historic part of where the United 
Farmworkers Movement took place, ” 
Buz said. “I’m also the son of two 
immigrant agricultural field workers. 
I’ve lived this experience and I know 
how important it is to advocate for the 
often-forgotten field workers that to 
this day are not paid or treated with 
dignity and respect. ”
Chicano/Chicana Alumni 
Council Community Service Awards 
were also presented to three student 
winners, again including Buz, who 
received a $500 cash prize and 
certificate. These students were 
recognized for their involvement in 
various outreach programs targeted 
at the Chicano/Chicana and Latino/
Latina community.
Buz’s work, for which he received 
the award, includes increasing 
nonpartisan, nonprofit voter 
registration and organizing voter 
forums that brought candidates to 
Latina/Latino districts. According to 
Buz, his participation has much to 
do with wanting to further the ideals 
put forth by Chavez.
“It’s me trying to embody what I 
can of his legacy and continue it in my own ways in order to make sure 
that the movement does not die, ” 
Buz said.
Finally, the event recognized 
an alumnus, a member of the 
UCSD staff and a member of the 
community, based on their service 
and dedication to the local area. 
The organizers chose to honor these 
individuals as ones whose work is 
not traditionally observed.
The luncheon ended with the 
announcement of several raffle 
winners, who received gift cards, 
tickets to UCSD sporting events and 
passes to the Birch Aquarium.
Tickets for the event were 
available to both members and 
nonmembers of the association, and 
proceeds from the event benefited 
the Movimiento Estudiantil Chicano 
de Aztlan’s Raza graduation 
ceremony, a student organization 
that supports higher education and 
cultural and historical recognition 
among Chicano/Chicana students. N EWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 6, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
	#!

	  "!

!"!
21(%;34-/
6,*42030%66,)
 )8)//)240%/271+)1):662@-1-1+%// //33/-'%6-215%4)(7)4-(%;34-/
6,&;
30
)%41024)%&2766,)342+4%0%1(?1(
%33/-'%6-215216,)#!2715)/-1+%1(5;',2/2+-'%/!)48-')5$)&5-6)'%357'5()(7	3))433/-'%6-215'%357'5()(7	%33/;
",)$)//1)55))4(7'%6245%4)%50%//+42732*567()165924.-1+62+)6,)462)(7'%6)*)//29567()165%&2760)16%/,)%/6,%1(9)//&)-1+4)(7')56-+0%%1(534)%(%9%4)1)552*2715)/-1+%1(5;',2/2+-'%/!)48-')5!
<5;',2/2+-5653428-()64%-1-1+21623-'557',%5!64)55
%1%+)0)16)%/6,; )/%6-215,-35-1%1'-%/$)//1)55)%/6,;!/))3-1+%1(024)
<%-120071-'%6-217&/-'!3)%.-1+%1(4)5)16%6-21!.-//56,427+,2764)%',%1(924.5,235
<:')//)16)%()45,-3%1(")%0924.):3)4-)1')
24))41*2-+,6#3(%6)573'20-1+
$)8)165%1((%-/;9)//1)556-35
<=-.)>7521%')&22.%6*%')&22.'20	
'%3593)
<2//297521156%+4%0'%3593)
2//29752152'-%/0)(-%*24%',%1')629-1%"4-621%5,+-*6'%4(Student Writers Received $500 Cash Prizes For Essay Submissions
▶ CHAVEZ,  from page 1
way, ” Suvonnasupa said. “If it’s not 
producing enough utility to student 
population perhaps there are other 
communities that would like to 
utilize the space. ”
In regards to tuition hikes, all 
candidates agreed that blame could 
be placed partly on the state, which 
has cut spending over the last few 
years. Increasing voter turnout 
to state elections was cited as a 
possible solution to making student                                 
voices heard. 
Fabella emphasized holding the 
UC Board of Regents responsible through ongoing protests.
“We’ve seen in the past months 
how students are able to shape 
politics and able to put direct 
pressure on the board, ” Fabella said. 
“We need to prioritize holding the                                                           
regents accountable. ”
Dierking proposed polling the 
student body to learn how many 
students would support the athletics 
program moving into Division 
I. He emphasized that the decision 
ultimately belongs to students.
The candidates for Students 
Determined also showed support for 
a sustainable move toward Division 
I sports, but stressed that it be made without financially burdening students.
At the end of the debate, the 
floor was opened to questions from 
the audience. Candidates were asked 
if they supported the proposed 
UCEN referendum, which will be on 
the ballot next week, and if passed 
would increase student fees in order 
to support the maintenance, repair 
and operation of UC facilities like                                               
Price Center.
All candidates claimed support for 
the referendum, citing the importance 
of these resources to students. Candidates From Both Slates Support Pending UCEN Referendum
▶ DEBATE,  from page 1LIGHTS & SIRENSLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edu.
Wednesday, March 25
9:58 a.m.: Drunk in Public
Male transient was intoxicated and 
lying in the street and yelling at 
Gilman Drive/Eucalyptus Grove 
Lane. Transported to Hospital.
4:01 p.m.: Citizen Contact
Parents of a juvenile child, both of 
whom were admitted into hospital 
for treatment, requested that the 
hospital look after child.  Referred 
to Other Agency – Child Welfare 
Services.
Thursday, March 26
1:59 a.m.: Welfare Check
Three elderly subjects were resting 
in shade on the side of Torrey Pines 
Road. Checks OK.
6:07 a.m.: Suspicious Person
Report received of male subject 
going through backpacks at Blacks 
Beach Gate.  State Park Rangers 
Responded.
Friday, March 27
8:50 a.m.: Information
Adult male came to reporting par -
ty’s door asking for house painting 
job. Reporting party stated that the 
male resembled a missing person. 
Gone on Arrival.
Saturday, March 28
6:57 a.m.: Information
Flyers being posted for missing stu -
dent. Information Only.
Sunday, March 29
1:29 a.m.: Drunk in Public
Group of people were entering 
vehicle and talking about how much they had been drinking. 
Checks OK.
8:45 a.m.: Disturbance - Domestic 
Violence
Spouse/cohabitant was inflicted 
with corporal injury at North Mesa 
Apartments. Closed by Adult Arrest.
Monday, March 30
8:50 a.m.: Suspicious Person
Suspicious person was was seen 
around Center Hall. A UCSD felo -
ny warrant had been issued for the 
suspect.  Closed By Adult Arrest.
2:26 a.m.: Shoplifting
Male student attempted shoplifting 
at the Bookstore in Price Center. 
Closed by Citation, Adult
Tuesday, March 31
12:40 p.m.: Petty Theft
A female student attempted theft at 
the Bookstore.  Closed by citation, 
adult.
6:08 p.m.: Citizen Contact
Two males were seen exiting from 
shrubbery behind Pepper Canyon 
Hall. One adult male was cited for 
marijuana possession under 28.5 
grams. Closed by citation, adult.
3:29 p.m.: Petty Theft
Male student attempted theft at 
the Bookstore.  Closed by Citation, 
adult.
2:30 p.m.: Assist Other Agency
Lifeguards requested assistance at 
Blacks Beach Gate. A subject was 
being uncooperative with regards 
to a dog off leash.  Information Only.
— SIDDHARTH ATRE
Photography Editor
Br ynna  bol t   bbolt@ucsd.edu readers can contactBr ynna  bol t   bbolt@ucsd.edu readers can contact4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 6, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CHARU  MEHRA
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
A.S. Council
Endorsements
&
Voter’s Guide2015-16Guardian Voter Guide
A.S. Council, the administration 
and everything else on campus 
tend to be at odds with each 
other on more than enough 
issues. However, in order 
for UCSD to function, 
productive discussion is 
imperative. Taylor Valdivia 
embodies an arguably 
unique form of passion, 
determination and knowledge 
when it comes to UCSD and, 
most importantly, students. In 
the time she spent with us, 
Valdivia was able to answer and 
thoroughly address all of our queries in a 
balanced, precise manner. She stated that she was drawn to the 
position of VP Campus Affairs because she believed in empowerment and 
community, a theme that reflected in her approaches and thoughts relating to campus issues. Regarding the UCEN referendum, Valdivia recognized 
that the fee adds to the burden students bear because of the increasing 
costs of higher education. However, she also said that it was necessary in 
order to ensure students are able to continue using highly frequented places 
like Price Center. The Che Cafe issue demonstrated a significant need for 
campus funding. Valdivia understands the administration’s position but 
believes the Collective should retain its space and that renovations should 
be made. She proposed examining current policies and increasing funds 
from outside sources. Another issue students have expressed interest in is 
Greek housing. Although the task would be very difficult to accomplish in 
La Jolla, Valdivia said she would work with HDH to develop and expand 
themed-housing programs. As far as A.S. Council is concerned, in general, 
Valdivia discussed how she would reach out to students and college 
councils more by physically attending the meetings and interacting with 
students frequently. Valdivia has worked extensively with communities 
outside A.S. Council, such as the OASIS community, which is why we are 
confident that she is an invaluable asset to our community and a leader 
that corroborates her words with actions, not solely arguments. 
If there’s one view we would want our Vice President 
of External Affairs to have, it’s a strong desire to 
change the way the UC Office of the President 
and the UC Board of Regents interact with the 
students they govern. And although Krystl 
Fabella is running unopposed, we were 
impressed with her knowledge of what she calls 
the dysfunctional relationship between UCOP 
and UC students. Fabella is an activist who 
traveled to San Francisco to protest the tuition 
increases during last year’s Board of Regents 
meeting. She also supports legislative measures 
to increase the California legislature’s control over 
the UC system, which could change the way tuition 
increases are imposed on students. As our liaison to the UC Student Association, Fabella believes that she’ll be 
able to bring increased transparency to the position by 
involving students in the campaigns UCSA is running. 
Fabella already has a background in advocating for 
critical student issues through her work with UConsent, 
the systemwide campaign to educate students about 
sexual assault. She furthermore believes that students’ 
legislative concerns can be addressed through increased 
cooperation with local legislators via the Office of Local 
Affairs. We believe Fabella is highly aware of the issues 
that are most important to students and will work to 
implement policies that serve their collective interests. 
For those reasons, the UCSD Guardian endorses Krystl 
Fabella for VP External Affairs.
Students Determined presidential candidate Travis Miller 
has served on A.S. Council for three years. As a political science 
major, business minor, Eleanor Roosevelt College senior, Sigma 
Nu brother and study-abroad returnee, Miller brings a wide perspective to the table. His first goal 
is reforming the on-campus housing situation, which Miller calls “a mess” for forcing two students 
into single-sized rooms and three — or sometimes even four — students into double-sized rooms. 
He plans to lock the university into five and ten-year housing reform plans, including new themed 
housing that would allow students from similar organizations, clubs and communities to live 
together without restriction because of differences in gender or college. Miller also plans to push 
for more academic support outside of the classroom by building off of programs like OASIS. He 
intends to create an internship database within A.S. Council that would help UCSD students get 
internships by connecting them with alumni and students who previously held those jobs. His 
other goal is to vivify campus spirit by creating a Triton loyalty program linked to students’ ID 
cards and reward sports attendance with points that can be later cashed in for substantial prizes, 
including paid vacations. Overall, Miller is adamant that A.S. Council should be held accountable 
for using student fees to accurately reflect the desires and concerns of the student body. He plans 
to open up more conversations with the various student communities on campus by visiting them 
quarterly for feedback and giving them the voice they deserve.Aerospace engineering junior Bryan Dierking is currently a 
campuswide senator and has also served as an A.S. representative 
to the A.S./ GSA Co-op Advisory Committee, the Library Student 
Advisory Committee, the University Centers Advisory Board and the Food Insecurity Committee. He 
founded the Triton Food Pantry and laid the groundwork for it by traveling to UC Santa Barbara and 
figuring out the logistics based on the existing model in place there. 
Bryan plans to tackle the issues surrounding housing on the UCSD campus, but is against the idea 
of designated campus residential areas for Greek life, and feels that it would do more harm than good.
He wants to implement an A.S. structure with two separate councils, in order to reduce the size 
of any given central voting body and increase efficiency. One council would consist of senators, vice 
presidents and voting members, and the other would consist of everyone else who currently holds 
seats in the bigger A.S. Council. 
Overall, Bryan believes that efficiency should come first and foremost on the list of A.S. Council’s 
priorities. He is also very passionate about moving UCSD toward Division-I sports, and says that, if 
elected, he will have a Division-I referendum on the ballot by next spring. 
Tritons United presidential candidate Dominick 
Suvonnasupa has the experience, ideas and enthusiasm 
to propel A.S. Council and UCSD in a positive direction. 
Originally from California, he moved to Maine after high 
school to open up his own restaurant and never planned on 
attending college. He decided to pursue economics and to be 
part of A.S. Council because, as a professor told him, “Where 
you put your money matters. ” 
With his background in economics, we believe Suvonnasupa 
is the right choice to keep A.S. Council on a steady fiscal path 
without hurting students. Also a member of the Undergraduate 
Investment Society, Suvonnasupa has experience in finance and 
understands the current problems Council has with funding. 
Furthermore, his plans to restructure Council will improve its efficiency when making decisions, as well as open up several 
opportunities for the student body as a whole to become 
involved with A.S Council. Historically, Council has had 
problems with transparency and voter turnout, and the liaison, 
marketing and research departments that Suvonnasupa hopes 
to create will rectify this. Instead of becoming a member of an 
organization just to put it on your resume, these departments 
will give undergraduate students real-life experience within the 
realm of A.S. Council to pursue their interests. 
The UCSD Guardian appreciates Suvonnasupa’s experience 
with A.S. Council, as well as his background in finance. His 
concrete ideas and plans for Council make him the best choice 
for A.S. president. President Dominick Suvonnasupa
VP Campus Affairs
Taylor Valdivia
VP External Affairs
Krystl Fabella
ALSO RUNNING
Travis Miller: President Bryan Dierking: VP Campus 
Affairs
compiled by Guardian StaffOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 6, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
Transform the lives of children 
with a Master of Arts in Education from Pepperdine.
luke’s learning.impact
To start your transformation, get in touch today. 310.568.2366 or 866.503.5467
gsep-recruitment@pepperdine.edu • gsep.pepperdine.eduStudents Should Approve UCEN Referendum
Most UCSD students 
value the spaces that 
are created, physically 
and metaphorically, by the student 
organizations and resource centers 
which occupy Price Center and the 
Original Student Center. In order for 
these facilities to continue running 
smoothly, the University Centers  
referendum must pass. The current 
proposal is to raise students’ quarterly 
fees by $14 with yearly adjustments of 
2.9 percent to account for inflation. 
Without proper funds, the university 
cannot resolve maintenance issues or 
pay for electricity, water and custodial 
staff. If the UCEN referendum does not pass, this will most certainly 
negatively impact student resource 
centers such as SPACES, the Cross 
Cultural Center and places where 
student life events are frequently 
hosted, such as the PC Ballrooms and 
the Loft.
While the practice of increasing 
fee hikes on students is a problem 
that needs to be addressed, this 
referendum is not the medium to 
do so. Without fully functional 
student centers and vendors, the 
quality of life on this campus will 
suffer. The diversity of food choices 
at Price Center and the hygienic 
standards of student restrooms will surely decline without monetary 
support. If the university were to 
attempt to raise retail revenue and 
rent instead of charging students a 
one-time fee, then the retail vendors 
would likely end up increasing their 
prices for their services. That would 
simply end up costing students more 
money from continuously spending 
more on meals at Price Center. 
Student fees supply 64 percent of 
UCEN’s overall income. Until major 
overall systematic reforms occur, 
it is necessary for us to continue 
financially supporting our campus 
resources, lest we risk letting them 
fall into further disrepair.GOT ISSUES?
SEND YOUR 
LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGWORLDFRONT WINDOW By David Juarez 
“It really 
comes down 
to what it is 
the students 
need and what it is 
the students want.6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 6, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
TEIKO  Y AKOBSON
features@ucsdguardian.org
A.S. Presidential| Debate
Q: A.S. Council is not exactly a priority for students, with voting rates 
historically hovering around 20 percent. What are your concrete ideas 
to not only promote engagement during elections, but to get students 
increasingly more involved over the year? 
Dominick Suvonnasupa:  The problem is that there’s a huge 
population of students not getting their voices heard, so when A.S. [Council] 
listens to students, the problem is that it’s the same 20 percent over and over 
again, and it doesn’t accurately reflect the full beliefs and the needs of the 
students. So with the organizations I want to create in A.S. [Council] and it 
being more centered around students, we can go out to the student com -
munities and really talk to them, really get an idea of what it is they need 
and what it is they want. That way, when we propose legislation changes or 
propose new ideas, we can meet with them via our liaison program. By doing 
this, we can reach a higher voting threshold and reach more students and get 
a more accurate representation of what we want and what we need.
Travis Miller:   The lifeblood of our campus is not the [A.S. Coun -
cil] — it’s the student orgs. What I want to do is institutionalize within 
A.S. [Council] quarterly visits for every single of the 435 student orgs on 
this campus. We want to reach out, we want A.S. [Council] to be going 
out every single week to multiple orgs, visiting them, talking to them ... 
It’s been far too long since A.S. [Council] has sat on the fourth floor and 
governed. It’s time that A.S. [Council] is actually going out there, talk -
ing to people, and taking down their ideas … In this election, what we 
wanted to do is go student by student and invite people out, target the 
students we know don’t come out and vote … and prioritize their voices.
TRAVIS MILLER DOMINICK SUVONNASUPADominick Suvonnasupa:  [UC Office of the President] was actually not compliant when it increased our fees … Not only that, but Napolitano 
has been caught saying that [UCOP] doesn’t have to listen to the students’ concerns. That creates a huge problem for us. How are we going to relate to 
what our UC governance is doing if it can’t even take us seriously? I propose working to reach out to the members of the UC Regents who are on our side 
and advocating for more UC Regents who have educational backgrounds, not just political backgrounds, and really pushing forward for more change and 
progress. There are also several petitions going around online right now … If we had an A.S. marketing department, we could really focus on this tactic 
[of petitions] and really get [students] to vote on these issues and sign these petitions. That’s how we’re going to gain power … It really is about having the 
backing of the full student body.
Travis Miller:  I think it’s time that we sit down as UC leaders and talk about this with all of the UC campuses and talk about how we want to move 
forward … We need more student representation and Regents with actual educational backgrounds. But how do we go about that? It’s time to sit down and 
talk with the chancellor. It’s time to start working on all different fronts and putting pressure, to working with the organizations that are on campus … We 
are going to reach out to the student orgs, to reach out to the Greeks, to reach out to everyone who has invested interest in talking about tuition … It’s time 
we get everyone out there and talking to everyone … and reaching out to the students who are not actually engaged all that much and letting them know 
[about tuition hikes], educating them, being there and talking to them one-on-one, going out on Library Walk and seeing them.Q: UCSD has seen the closure of many important student spaces over 
the years including CLICS, the Craft Center, and most recently, the on -
going fight to protect the Che Cafe. What do you think is A.S. Council’s 
role in preserving such spaces, and what is your take personally on the 
continued existence of student-run and operated spaces?
Travis Miller:   “Student org and student-run spaces are the life -
blood of our campus. I think it was extremely problematic the way that 
A.S. [Council] handled the Che issue. A.S. [Council] should be con -
tinuously standing by the side of the students and not by anyone else … 
It’s time to support things like the Food Co-op, like Groundworks, like 
our other student spaces on campus and show them that we’re there for 
them, that we’re actually giving them the support. We need to re-em -
phasize and give back to the spaces other than Price Center … I want to 
make sure that we’re actually out there, that we’re actually transparent, 
that we’re actually visiting people … It’s not time to stay on the fourth 
floor and argue about these issues — it’s time to be on the ground and 
talk about these issues. ”
Dominick Suvonnasupa:  “I am a firm believer that we need 
to protect our student spaces. The only problem with our realization 
of the Che [Cafe] is that we are starting to get a sense that the larger 
community of UCSD students really isn’t utilizing the Che [Cafe]. Now, 
I’m not sure if that’s true or not, but what I want to do is restructure 
how the Che collective reaches out to students. If we can provide re -
sources and materials for them to reach a larger audience so it benefits 
the larger student body, then I’m all for it. I believe that it is our job as 
leaders to not let our personal opinions get in the way but [to] really 
understand what our students need. If they want the Che Cafe, then 
I’m going to fight for it. But if it’s not producing enough utility to the 
student population, then perhaps there are other student communities 
that would like to utilize that space. It really comes down to what it is 
the students need and what it is the students want. ”Q: The proposed tuition hike angered a lot of students on campus, 
resulting in protests throughout the UC system. How will your council 
continue to work with other campuses to support student activism on 
this front in regards to UCSA and other cross-campus initiatives? 
“Student 
organizations 
and student-
run spaces 
are the lifeblood 
of our campus. ” ”Compiled by  Guardian Staff  // Page Layout By  Joselynn Ordaz
Photos By  Emily Tiptonstudent Jobs  
AvAilAble! 
Apply today! Online application at: 
conferences.ucsd.edu/jobs
For more info, contact Charlotte Curtis: 
SummerConfJobs@ucsd.edu  or 858.534.4226looking for a F un summer job? u C san diego Conference s ervices  
is HiRinG! Gain valuable experience in hospitality, conference  
and event planning, and office administration.
Applications due before Friday, April 10· Earn $10.56 to $14 hour· Some positions include FREE Summer Housing!· Paid Training begins Spring Quarter
CONFERENCE
SERVICES40+on-CAmpus  
positions AvAilAble!
Valid at  
Round Table Pizza UCSD Price Center, La Jolla • (858) 457-2060
Dine In and Carry Out Only
WEEKLY STUDENT SPECIALSdiscover the best kept secret on campus!
Monday Madness
$2 Tuesday
Pasta Wednesday
Thursday Bundle Deal
Flatbread Friday
Weekend Special50% off Any 2nd Large or X-Large Pizza
1-Topping Pizza Slice + Drink = $2  
Add Another Slice for Just $1.25
Free Garlic Parmesan Twists with Any Pasta
Large 1-Topping Pizza and Choice of 6 Garlic Parmesan Twists , 
6 Classic Wings or 8 Boneless Wings $20.99
$1 Off Flatbread & Drink  
Plus $2 Off Select Pitchers!
$1 Off Our Everyday Low Price Lunch SpecialsFEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 6, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
A.S. Presidential| Debate
Q: A.S. Council has struggled to maintain a balanced budget in 
the past, with the student body voting down several referenda that 
would lead to a fee increase. What fees, if any, do you think it would 
be necessary to implement? What are your plans for keeping student 
council financially solvent?
Travis Miller:  The last A.S. referendum that was talked about 
actually wasn’t voted down necessarily, — it was that the A.S. Council 
members hadn’t shown up to council for us to reach a quorum for an 
action to pass to go to a student body vote. So that’s a huge issue in and 
of itself: keeping A.S. [Council] accountable … A.S. [Council] takes 
almost about two to three million of your student fees, and about a 
million of that is spent internally on A.S. offices and our own projects. 
About $330,000 of that is actually spent on student-org funding. We 
spend almost a third of our money on ourselves as A.S. [Council]. It’s 
time to change that. It’s time to cut within the A.S. [Council] budget 
before we look at putting out a student-fee referendum. A student-fee 
referendum hasn’t been put out in six or seven years and sure, maybe it 
is time to explore that option, but not before we cut within ourselves. 
Not before we cut away that fat from within A.S. [Council] that actually 
isn’t being spent right now. 
Dominick Suvonnasupa:  I [am] major[ing] in economics 
with a focus in finance. I’ve been working very closely with the finance 
department for the past two years, and trust me, we have been try -
ing to cut … With our research and development department that we 
want to create we can really research and create metrics to find out 
who’s utilizing money in what way. I don’t believe in increasing funding 
somewhere without it coming from somewhere else. Now in regards to 
a few referendums, yes, student-org requests for funding have increased 
dramatically. This is a record year for that, and it really comes down to 
what the students want. If the students want more money for org fund -
ing, we can create a referendum for that. That’s not the first place that 
we’re going to go, we are definitely going to look within A.S. [Council] 
for that first, but we want to give the option to the students.
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGsee more at8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 6, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEA TURES
California State University, Long Beach
College of Continuing and Professional Education
Lorinda Owens
Ad size: 5.95 in. X 5 in.UC San DiegoPub Date: 3/30Doers Do
CSULB  Summer Sessions 2015
More than 75 Online Summer Classes 
Registration begins April 6
(800) 963-2250 x  60001 | info@ccpe.csulb.edu  
www.ccpe.csulb.edu/summer 
#DoersDo
@CSULBInterSessnTwo 6-Week Sessions 
May 26  – July 2 (S1S)
July 6  – August 14 (S3S) One 12-Week Session 
May 26  – August 14 (SSD) 
No formal admission 
to CSULB required Enroll on a  
“space available” basis Earn units toward 
your degree 
SS_UCSD2v_Ad1_S15.indd   1 3/6/15   3:14 PM
.com/ucsdguardian
.com/ucsdguardian
.com/ucsdguardianQ: What is your stance on [Division-I] athletics and if you are 
not in favor of introducing [Division-I] sports, what do you 
think are some alternatives to encouraging spirit and attendance 
at current games? 
Dominick Suvonnasupa:  Our main concern as leaders 
is not to represent our own personal interest but the interest of the 
students … The last fee referendum went out about four years ago, 
and there is still talk about it today. That obviously means that stu -
dents still want a Division-I sports programs … We want to research 
with the Big West to find out how we fit within their program and how 
we can move into Division-I athletics …  We would start with talking 
to the athletics department, start working with the teams and start 
building a community that can really understand the pros and cons of 
this kind of investment. It is going to be expensive and we are going 
to try to cut as much cost as possible, but the benefit versus the cost is 
really what we need to look at and then also to provide an opportunity 
for the students to decide. This summer, if elected, we are going to be 
working on that Division-I referendum.
Travis Miller:   We support a sustainable plan to Division-I if 
that’s going to come up, and it is going to come up … It’s time that we 
have a sustainable plan … It’s time to look at things like crowd-source 
funding from the alumni association and bringing in other revenues. 
It’s time that we do not balance the cost of Division I on students’ 
backs. We talked to [the athletic directors] about this and they were 
very receptive. Even if we don’t get elected, we will be there next week 
and the week after to talk about this, because this is something that 
affects every single person. That means reaching out to the different 
organizations such as SAC, such as all of the different communities 
that have historically been opposed to Division I and making sure 
their concerns are met, making sure that they are part of the dialogue.
TRITONS
UNITEDSTUDENTS 
DETERMINED
1.
2.
3.
4.
Connect faculty and 
alumni to offer research 
opportunities and 
internships for students to 
gain hands-on experience.Bring awareness to 
mental health, sexual 
assault and bullying 
issues on campus.
Develop a Triton ID 
Loyalty Program 
to encourage 
participation in Triton 
sporting events. 
Fight for increased 
student participation 
in resolving campus 
housing issues and 
create themed housing 
across all six residential 
colleges.
Fight rising student debt 
and establishing alterna -
tive, long-term sources of 
school funding from the 
state.
5.Promote the interests 
of underrepresented 
students through 
increased access and 
retention programs while 
making existing campus 
culture more inclusive.
6.
Establish monthly visits 
to campus organizations 
and councils to promote 
feedback and accessibility.7.1.Promote quarterly 
events with college 
councils, athletic 
teams and student 
organizations to foster 
diversity, spirit and 
collaboration.
2.
3.
4.
Ensure funding for 
established campus 
traditions while promoting 
sustainability and 
efficiency. Broadcast council 
meetings and publish 
regular reports on 
voting members and 
AVPs to increase 
accountability.
Raise awareness of 
campus resource 
centers and establish 
stronger relations with 
transfers, alumni and 
underrepresented 
students. 
Empower a diverse 
lobbying effort to fight 
for student interests 
regarding tuition hikes, 
undocumented students 
and other issues.
5.Increase UCSD 
participation in state 
conferences and keep 
the student body 
updated on all political 
developments. 
6.
Develop campus safety and 
gender equality initiatives, 
ensuring that all services 
properly cater to student 
needs.7.PHOTO BY EMILY TIPTON /GUARDIAN
PHOTO BY EMILY TIPTON /GUARDIAN10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 6, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
CLASSIFIEDS$
Guar dian Classi/f_ieds ar e FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifieds
crossword
ACROSS
1 Washing machine sequence
6 Pirate’s booty
10 Twilight time
14 Start of an old Army slogan
15 Rock group’s trip
16 In the past
17 Jack of rhyme
18 Against
19 Persia, now
20 2005 Margaret Peterson Haddix chil -
dren’s thriller
23 1958 #1 hit sung in Italian
25 In error
26 Hot tub
27 Lyricist Gershwin
28 Title holder
31 Classic language, and with 61-Across, 
hint to the puzzle theme found at the 
starts of 20-, 37- and 57-Across
33 Property measure
35 Moray, e.g.
36 Yak
37 Accumulate wealth
42 On Soc. Sec., say
43 Simpson judge
44 Schoolbook
46 “Beak” for “nose, ” e.g.
49 100 bucks
51 “__ the ramparts ... ”
52 Trip segment
53 Thurman of “Kill Bill”
55 Fashionable
57 Non-remunerative athletics
61 Cherish
62 Aussie greeting
63 Singer Baker
66 Till bills
67 Fish organ
68 Prepare to advance after a fly ball
69 Computer adventure game
70 Oxen connection
71 Ed of “Lou Grant”DOWN
1 Network with an eye
2 Slangy assent
3 Parking lot siren
4 Andean beast
5 Matador’s foe
6 Men-only party
7 Refuses to
8 Writer
9 Reaction to personal loss
10 “__ What Comes Natur’lly”
11 Pre-riot state
12 Garlicky shrimp dish
13 Nairobi native
21 Most recent
22 Key above D
23 By way of
24 SeaWorld attraction
29 Teachers’ org.
30 Fairylike
32 Lie alongside
34 Bring in
36 Capri’s Blue __
38 Transition to the next subject
39 Ear: Prefix
40 Las Vegas Strip feature
41 Marked, as a ballot
45 Sample
46 Sinuous ski race
47 Tart, as a citrus drink
48 Mescal sources
49 Aerobic exercise, in gym-speak
50 List of mistakes
54 Seriously humid
56 Old lab burners
58 Final grade factor
59 Polio vaccine developer
60 War journalist Ernie
64 Election Day: Abbr.
65 Mo. for fools?BIKES
Cruiser 7d - I have some unridden, Electra 
Cruiser 7d’s for sale @ $245 obo. Six pink, five 
seafoam green colored and one white one 
left. All were just built. I also have the same 
colored bikes in a single speed for $180 obo. 
Local delivery available. Listing ID: 135764507 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
Verse 24 - $275. I have two men’s and two 
ladies Verse by Electra for $275 each obo. The 
men’s are a blue/light blue 24 speed with a 19” 
frame and an orange and charcoal 21 speed 
with a 17” frame. The ladies are a turquoise and 
purple 21 speed with a 18.5” frame and a pink 
and chocolate 21 speed with a 18.5”frame. All 
in excellent, unridden condition. Listing ID: 
135764504 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
Univega Road Bike - $250. Rear rim slight bent 
but can be straightened at bike shop. Listing 
ID: 135764501 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
ELECTRONICS
Bose - $130. Acoustic Noise Cancelling 
Headphones. Bose QC fifteen. The best 
around-ear Bose headphones. Reduce noise 
across a wide range of frequencies. Enjoy music and movies with clear and lifelike 
sound. Ideal for frequent flyers. Includes air -
line adapter, carrying case and two audio 
cables - 1 with mic/remote for iPhone/iPod 
control and hands-free iPhone calling. AAA 
battery included: 35 hours average life. Listing 
ID: 134673484 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Eddie Bauer Ripstop SLR Camera Bag - $3. 
Black-gray used Eddie Bauer Ripstop SLR 
Camera Bag. Listing ID: 134673483 at ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more information
Kyocera Mita KM 1810 - $50. Kyocera Mita KM 
1810 printer for sell in like-new condition. 
The printer powers on but other than that no 
further testing has been conducted. Printer is 
sold “as is. ” Listing ID: 134673482 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
FURNITURE
TV Stand - $250. New TV stand for sale. Very 
low price. Can support up to a 52” TV. Free 
delivery if needed. Listing ID: 135764556 at 
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
Queen Size Pillow Top Mattress Set - $400. Get 
this new pillow top queen mattress set for an 
extremely low price. I also have new full size 
sets for $355, new twin sets for $310 and new 
king sets for $485. All  pillow top! Free delivery 
t
your visio n,
our missio n.
outfitters@ucsd.eduCreate custom a pparel to 
promote your student 
organiza tion with Triton 
Outfitter's new Made TO Order program!
LECTURENOTES
IS HIRING
NOTETAKERS
FOR SPRING ‘ 15
(STARTING 6th WEEK!)
Pick up an applicati on at
Lectu re Not es in the
Student Center
Must have 3.0 or bet ter
Applic ation & SAM PLE NO TES
 are du e Wed of fi nals week
as-lecture-notes@ucsd.eduif needed. Listing ID: 135764553 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
New Two Piece Sectional Sofa- $380. Get this 
new sectional for a great low price. Chaise is 
fully reversible. Listing ID: 135764551 at ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more information
SUN GOD FESTIVAL
MERCHANDISE
AVAILABLE THIS WEEK
AT TRITON OUTFITTERS
to.ucsd.eduCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 6, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
LEGALLY BLONDE: THE MUSICAL
MANDEVILLE AUDITRORIUMAPR4-5 & 9-11 • 8pmTahrirCAMPUS
CALENDAR
APR 6 - APR 122015 POWERED BY THE CHANCELLOR’S OFFICE AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guar dian
Calendar
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar @
ucsdgu ardian .orgMON4.06 WED4.08 TUE4.07
10am
JOINT UCDC-UC CENTER SACRAMENTO INFO 
SESSION - ORIGINAL STUDENT CENTER, 
DOLORES HUERTA RM
Explore career options through meaningful 
internships. Live in Washington, DC or Sacramento. 
Learn through research seminars! Come find out how you can participate in the UCDC or UC Center Sacramento programs next year at a joint info session. Alumni will be there to share their experiences. 
11am
ART AND SOUL: CHALKBOARD MUGS - THE 
ZONE
Love the decorated tea mugs in the Zone? Decorate 
your very own chalkboard mug to take home!
12pm
LEADERSHIP WORKSHOP SERIES - MARIPOSA 
RM
Limited spots available! You're invited to attend the 
4-Part Leadership Workshop Series hosted by the 
Outreach Coordinators! Students will get a chance to 
hone their strengths, learn how to manage a diverse 
team, and gain skills needed to be a successful leader, all while meeting new friends! These skills will be beneficial for students throughout college and helpful in finding a career after UCSD! 10am
TRITON SPRING CAREER FAIR - PRICE CENTER 
EAST AND WEST BALLROOMS
Meet with a broad spectrum of employers to secure 
a job after graduation, land a summer internship, or explore your career possibilities. Companies are recruiting students and alumni from a variety of 
backgrounds and majors for career and part-time 
positions, internships, and summer jobs. Industry 
professionals want to meet you, so use the career 
fair to showcase your qualifications, ask thoughtful and targeted questions and network with your future employer.
3pm
TELLING OUR STORIES: RAY TELLES - RAZA 
RESOURCE CENTER, LOBBY
This two day program will showcase past and 
current documentary work by award winning film 
director Ray Telles. In order to represent the Raza 
community in an equitable way, Ray will address 
the role of a Chicana/o film maker in producing how events are narrated, remembered, and placed in conversation with Chicana/o history.
6pm
PHI ALPHA DELTA PRESENTS: TRIDENTS TO 
GAVELS DAY 2 - DUGOUT CONFERENCE RM, 
RIMAC ANNEX
Day 2: Tritons to Toreros A presentation by the 
University of San Diego designed to describe the law school experience, followed by a mixer at Home Plate with UCSD staff, students, and professors.
FRI4.10
11:30am
TRANS DAY OF EMPOWERMENT: FILM 
SCREENING AND AFFIRMATION BOOTHS - LGBT RESOURCE CENTER
Film highlights the indigenous muxes third gender 
community in Juchitán, Oaxaca, Mexico. Muxe is a Zapotec word derived from the Spanish mujer or woman; it is reserved for people assigned male at 
birth who live as women and have specific roles 
within their community. Discussion to follow film screening.
5:45pm
DEAR WHITE PEOPLE SCREENING, REFLECTION, 
DIALOGUE - VARIOUS LOCATIONS
Join us for an informed screening of Justin simien's 
Dear White People. The screening will be followed by a reflective dialogue led by USC Cinematic Arts Professor Christine Achem and will include alumni student leaders from 2010. Refreshments will be provided on both days. 
7pm
WARREN LIVE: PARACHUTE - PC BALLROOM 
WEST
Warren Concerts and Festivals Commission presents 
this year's Warren Live, featuring... Parachute!9am
VOLUNTEER NOW: IMPROVING COMMUNITY 
HEALTH THROUGH SERVICE - VARIOUS 
LOCATIONS
Health Corps is partnering with Pre-Health and 
Community Service Organizations to host an event 
on April 7th, 2015 called the Volunteer NOW 
Conference to raise awareness about the volunteer 
opportunities in the San Diego community! There will be workshops in the morning followed by a 
keynote speech by Dr. Nick Yphantides. Tabling will 
follow. Free lunches & prizes will be throughout the 
day!
7:30pm
SPRING FEST: PART I - THE LOFT
The UCSD Department of Music, in collaboration with The Graduate Student Association of UCSD, 
kick off Spring Fest 2015! The event will be 
showcasing:
8pm
PHI ALPHA DELTA PRESENTS: TRIDENTS TO 
GAVELS DAY 1: OTTERSON IS, RM 114 (RADY 
SCHOOL)
Day 1: "Paths to Law School" Hosted by Career 
Services, a panel of law professionals will talk about their experience on the law school preparation and application process. Panelists are 
current law students or attorneys from a range of 
legal expertise, academic background and law 
schools. After the event, you can get your headshot 
taken for free!
SAT4.04
11am
STRAWBERRY PICKING & FLOWER FIELDS 
BUS TRIP - BUS TRIP TO CARLSBAD
Spring has sprung! Get off campus and enjoy the 
weather! Join the Outreach Coordinators for a fun-filled day exploring the city of Carlsbad! $20 ticket price includes transportation to/from 
UCSD, entrance into the famous Flower Fields, 
and a bucket for strawberry picking to take home! ($35 value!)
8pm
MUIR MUSICAL PRESENTS LEGALLY 
BLONDE: THE MUSICAL - MANDEVILLE AUDITORIUM
Muir Musical (in association with Associated 
Students) Presents: Legally Blonde: The Musical! April 4-5 and 9-11 @ UCSD Mandeville Auditorium.  Based on the hit 2001 film, this Broadway musical follows Elle Woods from sunny Malibu to Harvard Law School, all in the pursuit of love. This hilarious and heart-warming show is sure to delight with upbeat dance numbers, peppy songs, and a story of self-discovery that will stay with you long after the curtain has closed. THU4.09
10am
GRAND SLAM - PRICE CENTER AND SSC 
MULTIPURPOSE RM
The UC San Diego Grad SLAM is a graduate student 
competitive speaking event that showcases graduate student research. Grad SLAM participants present their research using PowerPoint slides in a 
three-minute TED-like talk□ that can be understood 
by a general audience. Presenters will compete in successive rounds and receive prizes ranging from $100-$2,500. 
3pm
PASSPORT TO CULTURE - RUSSIA - I-HOUSE 
LOUNGES, CUZCO
Learn about life and culture in other countries and 
states from current international and out-of-state students. Enjoy a traditional taste of food from the highlighted region each week! Come earn your 
passport and travel around the world□! All students 
welcome! Great for students interested in studying abroad! 
7pm
UBC SPRING 2015 RECRUITMENT - RADY 
SCHOOL OF MANAGEMENT
Undergraduate Business Network cordially invites all 
aspiring young professionals to our Spring Recruitment 2015: Dare to Inspire. Our 4-day recruitment event includes an Info Session, Business Workshop, Clubhouse Mixer, and Interviews. All majors are welcome. Some highlights include: 
SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 6, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
 VOTE ON TRITONLINK.UCSD.EDU FROM APRIL 6-10
FOR MORE IMFORMATION, VISIT AS.UCSD.EDU/ELECTIONS
OR CONTACT ASELECTIONS@UCSD.EDUUCSD will face off  against UC Santa Barbara and UCLA Improving Softball Squad Takes on T op-seeded CCAA Opponent Tritons’ Next Meet is Mangrum Invitational 
just .147 averaged by UCSD.
After nine lead changes, the 
Tritons grabbed a decisive 23–20 
advantage after neither team was up 
by more than two points in a very 
close set. UCSD was able to edge out 
its opponent 23–25 in the first set 
after a kill from Syftestad. 
Cal State Northridge started the 
second set off strong, quickly tak -
ing a 14–10 advantage. The Tritons 
inched closer but could never make 
up for this deficit, falling 25–21. 
In the third set, UCSD and 
Northridge battled back and forth 
in the hardest-fought set of the 
game. After 16 tie scores and 10 
lead changes, the Matadors, up by 
one 23–22 late, clinched the set 
with a kill from their senior middle 
blocker Greg Faulkner and a Triton 
attack error.
Northridge exposed a tired 
Triton team in the fourth set, get -
ting a 10–1 edge before cruising to 
clinch the game.
“We are a young squad this year and it takes some time to develop 
this talent, ” UCSD head coach Kevin 
Ring told UCSD Athletics. “This is 
a tough league and we’re gaining 
some experience but we definitely 
need some more work. ”
UCSD was convincingly defeated 
again the following night by No.10 
Long Beach State in its final home 
game of the season. The Tritons 
were defeated in straight sets with 
the scores of 25–13, 25–17 and 
25–13. 
Long Beach pulled away early 
in the first frame, taking an 8–1 
lead. With another 7–0 run, they 
suffocated the Tritons and took the 
first set. 
UCSD led 2–1 early in the second 
set before the visitors fought back to 
grab an 13–10 lead. UCSD trailed 
22–14 after Cal State Long Beach 
scored five unanswered points and 
finally gave away the second set. The 
49ers continued their domination in 
the last frame, taking a 13–3 early 
lead all the way to clinch the victory.
“We’re all very competitive. The guys work hard and we want them 
to feel success, ” Ring said. “We’re 
[going to] give it our best shot as we 
usually do and we’re [going to] go 
figure out, night in and night out, 
what we need to do to improve. ”
Long Beach State hit .400 on 
the night and had 14 total blocks, 
compared to the Tritons’ .027 and 
one team block. Syftestad could not 
repeat his standout performance 
from the night before, finishing with 
only three kills. Junior outside hitter 
Kirill Rudenko came off the bench 
to lead the Tritons with a team-high 
six kills on .167 hitting. 
The Tritons remain winless in 
Mountain Pacific Sports Federation 
play at 0–19. The Tritons will have 
another tall task ahead of them in 
next weekend’s matchup when they 
take on UC Santa Barbara (10–8) 
and UCLA (7–11). They will also 
face UC Irvine in their season finale 
on April 18 at 7 p.m. ▶ M. VOLLEYBALL,  from page 12Chico State narrowed the gap to 
one run in the sixth. Three walked 
batters loaded the bases, and a dou -
ble to left field by junior outfielder 
Alli Cook earned two more runs for 
the Wildcats. 
Senior pinch runner Katy Weger 
then scored off a walk, tying up the 
score at six and pushing the game 
into extra innings for the second 
time of the series.
The UCSD offense came alive 
after two more scoreless innings — 
Schneider started the 10th frame off 
with a double to right center, and 
with two outs on the board, George 
got a base hit and set Schneider up to score. 
Devoto then returned to the plate 
and blasted another double into the 
field, driving George and Schneider 
home for the game-winning runs.
The blue and gold made a play 
for the series sweep in the finale on 
Saturday. Junior outfielder Taylor 
Abeyta scored a run off a single 
by freshman third baseman Rachel 
Phillips, giving the Tritons an early 
lead. 
However, Chico State fought 
back, notching up one run in the 
fourth to tie the score and two runs 
in the fifth to pull ahead for a 3–1 
win, denying UCSD the final win.
“ As a team, we’re just focusing on 
our consistency now, ” Devoto said. “We just need to play each game 
inning by inning to achieve our 
larger goals of a CCAA and NCAA 
championship. ”
The Tritons will return home 
next weekend to face off against 
CCAA top seed Humboldt State. 
The Lumberjacks are dominating 
the CCAA right now with an 18–6 
record and a 13-game winning 
streak.   
Afterwards, the women will trav -
el to Hayward, CA to face off in a 
weekend doubleheader against Cal 
State East Bay on April 17 to 18.long jump and 49-2 1/4 in the tri -
ple jump, taking first place in both 
events. Recently named California 
Collegiate Athletics Association ath -
lete of the week, Triton sophomore 
Derek Van de Streek finished right 
behind Bowen in the triple jump.
Sophomore Jared Senese edged 
out Cal State San Marcos’ sopho -
more Justin Washington in the last 
200 meters of the 800-meter run 
and finished first with 1:52.28. For 
the women’s 800-meter run, senior 
Sabrina Pimentel (2:13.91) placed 
first and sophomore Ella Verhees 
(2:14.79) placed second.
Another Triton grabbed an 
NCAA-provisional qualifier when 
senior Chantia Justice jumped 39-2 
1/2 in the triple jump. She was fol -
lowed by freshman Tais Marinho-
Gomez (38-4 3/4) and junior Kristin 
Sato (37-7 3/4) as the blue and 
gold dominated the competition. 
UCSD also placed first and second 
in the women’s long jump, where 
sophomore Casey Buck and senior 
Veronica Bradley had season-best 
jumps of 17-11 and 17-8.
Sophomore Marisa Padilla won 
the women’s 400-meter run with a 
personal best of 57.29, setting the 
Tritons up for dominant relays.
In the 4x400 women’s relay 
team, Pimentel, sophomore Jackie 
Chalmers, senior Ellexi Snover and Padilla improved their season best 
and won with a time of 3:45.44, 
good for sixth in the school’s all-
time record book.
“I went into this race hoping to 
PR, so it felt great, ” Padilla said. “I 
had a really good second half of my 
race. We definitely have a chance to 
do well [in the relays]; it’s an excit -
ing year, especially for the 4x4. ” 
For the men’s relay, senior 
Connor Macky, sophomore Sam 
Ozenbaugh, Van de Streek and 
Senese played first with a time of 
3:18.36.
In other events, sophomore 
Savanna Forry won the women’s 
high jump and freshman Raymond 
Silver did the same for the men, 
clearing 5-4 1/4 and 6-7 respec -
tively. Senior Nash Howe continued 
his excellent year, winning his third 
javelin competition of the year with 
a throw of 210-8. Finally, junior 
Michelle Cummins completed the 
100-meter hurdles with a time of 
14.64, grabbing yet another first 
place finish for the Tritons. 
The Tritons’ next meet will be at 
Cal State San Marcos on Saturday, 
April 11, for the 2015 Mangrum 
Invitational, which is scheduled to 
start at 10 a.m.▶ SOFTBALL ,  from page 12 ▶ TRACK & FIELD,  from page 12
readers can contact
daniel sung    d2sung@ucsd.edu readers can contact
marcus thuillier    mthuilli@ucsd.edu readers can contact
ka tie  potts    kpotts@ucsd.edu 
@UCSD_SportsFollow us on Twitter
SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
MARCUS THUILLIER
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 6, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
The Triton softball team was on the road again this week -
end against California Collegiate Athletic Association foe 
Chico State, taking three of four games from the Wildcats 
and shifting up to sixth in the league standings. UCSD 
swept Friday’s doubleheader, shutting out Chico State 1–0 
in game one and 3–0 in game two, then earning an 8–6 win 
in game one on Saturday to take the series win. The Tritons’ record is now 
12–12 in the CCAA and 22–16 overall.
The first game became a pitcher’s duel between junior right-handed 
pitcher Hannah Duarte (10–7) and Wildcat freshman pitcher Haley 
Gilham: Gilham held strong for seven innings, only giving up five hits 
and holding the score leveled at 0–0, driving the game into extra innings. 
Duarte came out on top, though, giving up three hits, three walks and 
striking out three in eight innings of play.
The UCSD offense finally broke through in the top of the eighth inning. 
Singles by freshman catcher Lauren Sanders and junior shortstop McKenna 
Clewett got the ball rolling for the Tritons. An error by Wildcat senior third 
baseman Courtney Brown then put freshman outfielder Kelsi Maday on 
the bag. With bases loaded, sophomore pinch hitter Bianca Devoto drew a 
walk, pushing freshman second baseman Kendall Woken, who was pinch 
running for Sanders, home for the first and only run of the game.
 Duarte then retired three of four batters in the bottom of the eighth to 
secure the win for the Tritons.
“I have a mantra written on one of my shoelaces actually, ” Duarte told 
the UCSD Guardian. “It’s Philippians 4:13 — I can do all things through 
Christ who strengthens me. It’s just a simple reminder to stay within myself 
and keep my confidence up. ”UCSD earned a 3–0 win in Friday’s game two, shutting out Chico State 
for the second time that day and marking the Tritons’ first doubleheader 
sweep since their games against Cal State Stanislaus on Feb. 21.
The big blue attacked first in the top of the fourth — singles by fresh -
man outfielder Kendall Baker and junior outfielder Kristin George started 
the inning for UCSD. However, Chico State retired the next two batters 
in the lineup. Clewett then stepped up to the plate and knocked a bunt to 
third base, sending Baker running for home plate and notching the first run 
up on the scoreboard. Maday fired the game-winning shot, sending a hard 
double to right field for two more RBIs and securing the win for UCSD.
“Both games on Friday were really close, ” Devoto told the Guardian. 
“We had to put up a tough fight for every inning and it really just showed 
the fight we could give coming into Saturday’s games. ”
The Tritons were in it for the long haul in Saturday’s first game — a 
seventh-inning rally by Chico State pushed the game into extra innings, 
but UCSD racked up two runs in the top of the 10th, pulling off an 8–6 win 
and capturing the series win.
The big blue got an early start in the first when a double by Devoto 
yielded the first RBI. The Wildcats countered in the bottom of the inning 
with a sacrifice fly by senior shortstop Emily McEnaney, then pulled into 
the lead in the bottom of the third when a double by junior outfielder 
Amanda Cordeiro brought two more runners home and set the score at 3–1.
UCSD tied the score up at 3–3 in the top of the fourth. The Tritons 
increased their lead to three in the top of the fifth — a single by Devoto, a 
double by Maday and a walk drawn by Clewett loaded up the bases; Devoto 
then scored off a wild pitch to pull UCSD into the lead and Chestnut sent a 
double to right field for two more RBIs and a 6–3 advantage.
UCSD swept the California 
Collegiate Invitational at home, with 
both men’s and women’s track-and-
field teams finishing in first place. 
The men’s team earned a tally of 207 
points, with Cal State Long Beach 
coming in second (161.83) and Cal 
Poly Pomona in third (133.16). On 
the women’s side, UCSD finished 
with 267 points, with Long Beach 
again coming in second (161.5) and 
Cal Poly Pomona taking the third 
place (128.5).
On one of the marquee events of 
the day, the Tritons swept the wom -
en’s 5,000-meter run, with juniors 
Corinne Hinkle (17:36.09), Marie 
Diaz (17:37.6) and Paige Hughes 
(17:37.58) taking the three top 
spots. The times are good for fifth, 
sixth and seventh on UCSD’s all-
time performances for the distance.
UCSD continued to dominate 
in distance races as senior Mario 
Flores and junior Daniel Franz took 
first and second places, respectively, 
in the men’s 3,000-meter steeple -
chase. Both students hit personal 
bests and provisional qualifying marks for the NCAAs. Flores and 
Franz’s stellar performances now 
place them among UCSD’s all-time 
performances on the distance, earn -
ing the fifth and seventh marks, 
respectively.
“I’m really pleased with the big 
PR and especially season’s best, ” 
Flores told the UCSD Athletics 
Department. ”The race plan was to 
go through five laps on our pace and 
to really push it on the last couple of laps ... Right now, the goal is mostly 
paying attention in practice to get 
better in [the] race as the season 
goes on. Hopefully, this is just going 
to continue and feel strong and 
comfortable with the pace. It’s the 
goal right now to get to nationals. ”  
Freshman Matt Bowen dominat -
ed the men’s long jump and triple 
jump, where he hit 22-11 3/4 in the TRACK & FIELD
Tritons Sweep Meet at RIMAC Field
Both the men’s and women’s team took first at the California Collegiate Invitational 
as several Tritons hit season bests, as well as provisional qualifiers for the NCAA.
B Y marcus thuillier
sports editor
MEN'S  VOLLEYBALL
Tritons Fail to Win a Game
In its season’s last homestand, the young UCSD team 
was defeated by two ranked conference opponents.
The UCSD men’s volleyball team 
was unsuccessful in its last home 
stand of the season, falling to No. 
13 Cal State Northridge on Friday 
night and losing to No. 10 Cal State 
Long Beach in straight sets the fol -
lowing night.
Despite the 3–1 loss to Cal State 
Northridge, the Tritons battled hard 
for every set. The scores all came out close, at 23–25, 25–21, 25–22, 
25–15.
Redshirt freshman opposite 
Tanner Syftestad h ad a match and 
season-high 16 kills on .235 hitting. 
Syftestad was the only Triton to 
score more than six kills. 
The Matadors, on the other 
hand, had a more balanced offense. 
Northridge had four players with 
double-figure kills. The Matadors 
also averaged .297 on the night to B Y  daniel sung 
senior staff writer
See TRACK & FIELD , page 11See M. VOLLEYBALL , page 11
PHOTO USED WITH PERMISSION FROM UCSD ATHLETICS
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE / GUARDIANSee SOFTBALL , page 11SOFTBALL
BY KATIE POTTS //  STAFF WRITER
PHOTO BY  CORY WONG / GUARDIANAFTER A DIFFICULT START TO THE SEASON, UCSD’S SOFTBALL TEAM IS 
STARTING TO GAIN TRACTION AFTER ANOTHER CONVINCING SERIES WIN. Back on TrackW. Tennis 
Baseball
W. Tennis
Softball
M. Tennis     4/6       
     4/7
     4/9    
     4/10
     4/10VS Cal State Northridge
VS Azusa Pacific
AT Point Loma Nazarene
VS Humboldt State
VS Point Loma NazareneUPCOMING
UCSD
GAMES