This year’s first Thrifty Thursday, 
an event series meant to encourage 
sustainability on campus through 
thrift shopping, was held on Jan. 22 
from 4:30 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. in Price 
Center Plaza and featured thrift 
shopping and live music. The event, 
which was held by the Associated 
Students Office of Environmental 
Justice Affairs, is estimated to have 
attracted between 75 and 100 stu -
dents to the function. 
Thrifty Thursday began last year 
in Fall Quarter 2013 and at first consisted of sellers from local San 
Diego thrift stores. The event later 
changed to feature student vendors 
for the 2014 Winter and Spring 
Quarters, and those students who 
have since participated have been 
able to keep the funds that they 
themselves raised.
This year’s first Thrifty Thursday 
was similarly student oriented. The 
event was largely advertised by a 
Facebook page created by Thurgood 
Marshall College sophomore Moon 
Thevada, who is majoring in envi -
ronmental engineering, and was 
available to any students willing to 
fill out a vendor form and manage 
a table.The event also featured live bands 
Wasted Days and Odakota, based 
out of UCSD student-run radio sta -
tion KSDT. Refreshments were pro -
vided by Peet’s Coffee and Tea.
Associated Vice President of 
Environmental and Social Justice 
Affairs Sierra Donaldson, a junior 
from Revelle College majoring in 
environmental systems, hopes that 
Thrifty Thursday will promote a cul -
ture of sustainability among UCSD 
students. 
“Buying new clothes uses a lot of 
materials, energy and water, which 
we don’t have a lot of right now, ” VOLUME 48, ISSUE 27  MONDAY , JANUARY 26, 2015 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
ALL THE RIGHT 
NOTES
STEP INTO THE LIVES OF 
UCSD’S OWN STUDENT 
PERFORMERS AS THEY 
PREPARE FOR THE BIG STAGE 
IN UPCOMING COMPETITIONS 
AND CONCERTS. LEADERS 
SHARE STORIES.
SORORITY  P ARTIES
STOPPING  A T  SIXThe  Future  Of  Greek  Life?
basketball win  streak  endsopinion,  P age   4
sports,  P age  12
MONDAY
H 70 L 48TUESDAY
H 70 L 46
WEDNESDAY
H 70 L 50THURSDAY
H 73 L 52
FORECAST
VERBATIM
When 
embarking 
on the path 
to a success -
ful paper, it’s 
important to 
have your 
priorities straight. Life is 
short, there is no guaran -
tee you will have access to 
Netflix later on.”
How-To Guru
OPINION , PAGE 4
INSIDE
LIGHTS AND SIRENS.........3
QUICK TAKES  .................. 4
STUDENT PERFORMERS  .6
CROSSWORD  ................ 10
WOMEN’S BASKETBALL.12“
FEA TURES,  P AGE  6
PHOTO BY ALWIN SZETO / GUARDIANTHRIFTY THURSDAY
Regents Table Tuition 
Increase For March Meeting
The future of tuition increases remains uncertain after 
a University of California Regent proposed a repeal of the 
controversial annual 5-percent hikes.
Former Assembly Speaker John Perez, who was 
appointed to the UC Board of Regents in 2014, moved 
to put the regents’ proposed tuition plan, which could 
increase student fees by 28 percent by 2019, on the agenda 
for the March meeting of the governing body.
Perez explained Wednesday that a budget gap between 
the UC system’s projected spending and the governor’s pro -
posed budget could only get worse with tuition increases.
Raising tuition on the over 240,000 students who 
attend UC schools would only generate $100 million, 
though California Gov. Jerry Brown has promised to 
increase funding levels by $120 million on the condition 
that tuition does not go up. Therefore, says Perez, the 
problem is only exacerbated.
“We would be worse off, ” Perez said Wednesday at the 
UC Regents meeting at UC San Francisco’s Mission Bay 
campus.
The two-day meeting did not yield any major changes 
in spending or systemwide policy, though a proposal from 
UC President Janet Napolitano to tie athletic coaches’ 
salaries to academic performance of their athletes was shot down in a full session of the regents.
Napolitano’s plan would have prevented athletic direc -
tors and coaches from receiving bonuses from teams that 
perform well in tournaments and playoffs while those 
teams maintain poor enrollment and classroom evalua -
tions of student-athletes.
The policy, as the San Francisco Gate described in 
a Thursday article posted online, would review athletic 
programs on a four-year basis with the criteria of athletes’ 
academic eligibility and opting to stay in school. Faculty 
would have been evaluated using the Academic Progress 
Rate, which assigns each student a score less than or equal 
to 1,000 based on their academic eligibility for their team 
and whether they stay in school. To be deemed ineligible 
for bonus pay, a coach’s team would need a four-year aver -
age APR below 930.
Additionally, the policy also allows each campus to 
offer its coaches and athletic directors financial incentives 
based on the overall six-year graduation rates of their 
student-athletes. 
Prior to this policy, which would have applied only 
to athletics staff whose contracts were new or recently 
renewed, bonuses were only attached to athletic perfor -
mance. Therefore, coaches had no financial incentive to   B y  zev  hurwitz    Senior staff writer / /  Jacky  to   staff writerResearchers 
Find New 
Asthma 
TriggerSCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
Certain type of white blood 
cells were demonstrated to be 
an important component of 
allergy-induced asthma.
B Y  Teiko Y akobson
Features Editor
See  ASTHMA , page 2A new biological mechanism 
related to an immune response that 
triggers asthma was discovered by 
UCSD researchers in collaboration 
with scientists from Korea University 
and the University of Aberdeen. This 
mechanism, if selectively controlled, 
could be a focus for future treatments 
that would reduce asthma and other 
allergic diseases.
In a study published last week in the 
Proceedings of the National Academy 
of Sciences, researchers demonstrated 
that dendritic cells, a type of white 
blood cell, are a significant player in the 
overall biochemical pathway leading 
to asthma as an allergic response. 
The concentration of a molecule 
called cyclic adenosine monophosphate 
in these cells was found to control the 
response. When levels of cAMP in DC 
reach an extreme, a class of immune 
cells called T-helper 2 cells is signaled 
in such a way that they induce allergic 
asthma.
The relationship between DC and 
T-helper cells is of particular interest 
to researchers. While asthma is one 
type of disease that is specifically 
linked to T-h2, there are a number 
of other allergic diseases induced by 
other T-helper cells, which are signaled 
to act as a result of cAMP levels in 
DC. Understanding this relationship 
in depth would then open the door 
to developing treatments that could 
maintain an appropriate level of cAMP 
in DC and prevent allergic diseases, 
either through drugs or therapy.
Dr. Paul Insel, co-author and 
professor of pharmacology and 
medicine at UCSD, told the UCSD 
Guardian that developing a drug to 
control cAMP levels in DC would be 
the next step in asthma research.
“There aren’t any drugs [currently] 
that can control the levels of cyclic 
AMP , and those drugs would be 
a logical approach for treating the 
dendritic cells and raising the cyclic 
AMP levels so that we wouldn’t see [the 
development of asthma], ” Insel said. 
“ And we’re testing that in experiments 
now. The kinds of drugs that [control 
cAMP levels] are widely used, but we 
don’t know which ones to use in the 
dendritic cells. ”
Another significant feature of this 
study was that the genetics of the 
mice used, which led to a missing 
protein that was speculated to regulate 
the cAMP levels, did in fact result 
in the mice contracting asthma 
spontaneously, much like humans do. 
Dr. Eyal Raz, principal investigator 
and professor of medicine, told 
the Guardian that this was a major 
advantage of this study.
“One problem that the scientific 
community has [with asthma research] CAMPUS
Thrifty Thursday Promotes Green Shopping
Council worked with student vendors and local thrift shops to encourage sustainability.
B Y   Br ynna  Bol t
Staff writerSee  REGENTS , page 3
See  THRIFTY , page 3UC SYSTEM
Wasted Days and Odakota, based out of UCSD student-run radio station KSDT, perform at the first Thrifty Thursday. Photo taken by 
Siddharth Atre/ UCSD Guardian.is that you have to work very hard for 
the mice to develop the asthma, ” said 
Raz. “ And then people say [the study] 
you have [done] here has nothing 
to do with human disease. Here [in 
our study], [the mice] developed 
spontaneous asthma. ”
Insel added that these protein-
lacking mice resemble the clinical conditions of human patients more 
closely than any others used in any 
other study before.
“There’s a long list of studies that 
has been done in mice that have not 
panned out when the studies were 
transferred to patients, ” Insel said. “ And 
we believe that this model appears to 
be much more closely matched to the 
human disease, so these mice might 
actually turn out to be a lovely system for testing new asthma therapies and 
other conditions. ”
For Insel’s group, the next 
immediate step will be to look for 
receptors that can activate the protein 
involved in producing cAMP for DC 
in order to direct drug research toward 
possible receptors to target. They 
expect to obtain the results of their 
next project quickly.
“We’re hoping to advance [our research] within the next year, ” said 
Insel. “We’re waiting to hear about 
getting some federal funding, and 
if we do, that will really accelerate 
this project. So we’ve got our fingers 
crossed. ”2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 26, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG N EWS
DIGITAL MONKEYS By Jeffrey Lau
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and 
Thursdays during the academic year by UCSD students 
and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this 
newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, 
without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2014, all 
rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible 
for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The 
views expressed herein do not necessarily represent 
the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of 
California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian 
is funded by advertising. What are dolphins?
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
STUDENT
REGENT
OPEN
FORUM 
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28
12:30PM - 1:00PMPC 4TH FLOOR,GOVERNANCE CHAMBERS
 
Interested in UC-wide topics like tution increases and overcrowded classrooms? Then considerapplying as the next UC Student Regent! Meet the current UCStudent Regent  and learn about the position.
Free Rubios lunch will be provided, so 
grab a bite while you're here and don’t miss out on this opportunity! Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Audrey Sechrest
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Aleksandra Konstantinovic
Andrew E. Huang  
Taylor Sanderson
Tina Butoiu
Charu Mehra
Brandon Yu
John Story
Teiko Yakobson
Jacqueline Kim
Kyle Somers
Nilu Karimi
Siddharth Atre
Jonathan Gao
Joselynn Ordaz
Elyse Yang
Annie Liu
Rosina Garcia
Laura Chow
Vincent PhamEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Social Media Coordinator
Training and Development
Page Layout
Sherman Aline, Allison Kubo, Sidney Gao
Copy Readers
Micaela Stone, Andrew Chao, Caroline Lee
Editorial Assistants
Shelby Newallis, Jonah Yonker, Kriti Sarin, Jennifer Grundman,  
Kriti Sarin,Karly Nisson, Cassia Pollock, Marco Attie, 
Marcus ThuillierScientists Experimented On Mice That Developed Allergic Asthma Similarly to Humans
▶ ASTHMA,  from page 1
readers can contact
Teiko  Y akobson   tYakobs@ucsd.edu N EWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 26, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
ROME
AMMAN
BUENOS
  AIRES
CADIZ
   HO CHI
MINH CITY
P ARMA
 CAPE 
TOWN
2015
BERLIN
MADRID
GRANADA
EDINBURGH
LONDON
P ARIS
EARLY BIRD 
   DEADLINE
MONDAY FEB. 2, 2015
*Applying on or before the Early Bird Deadline 
increases your chance of getting into
your ﬁrst-choice program
*Complete applications by February 2 and
you will be  entered into a raﬄe 
to receive: 
one $100 S
one $100 STA Travel voucher
STUDY ABROAD
IN SUMMER 
Programs Abroad Oﬃce
Phone: (858)534-1123 Email: globalseminar@ucsd.edu
ATHENS
prioritize students’ academic success 
or lack thereof. 
However, some opponents of the 
policy, including the governor, lieuten -
ant governor and Perez, believe that the 
standards in place under Napolitano’s 
proposed policy would be too low to 
have any meaningful effect.
“We’re doing almost nothing 
here under the illusion that we’re 
doing something, ” California Lt. 
Gov. Gavin Newsom said during the 
meeting.
The SF Gate reported that in 
2013, UC Berkeley’s football and 
basketball teams had the worst 
graduation rates of 72 top athletic 
schools in the country. Napolitano’s 
proposal, which passed the regents 
in a smaller committee before being 
rejected by the full board, was com -
posed in partial response to the UC Berkeley graduation issue.
UCSD Director of Athletics Earl 
Edwards said that implementation of 
the policy would have had little effect 
for Triton athletes due to pre-existing 
academic guidelines for athletes.
“We’ve just recently started utiliz -
ing traditional athletic scholarships, 
and all of our grants are tied into 
a GPA requirement of 2.6 or better 
which is a higher standard than you’ll 
find at the vast majority of institu -
tions, ” Edwards said.
In an email to the UCSD Guardian, 
Edwards added that he felt that the 
policy would really have only changed 
guidelines at one UC campus and that 
enforcement of the policy could have 
negative implications.
“Tying bonuses to something that’s 
somewhat required already by the 
NCAA and being reached by nearly 
every institution could be perceived as 
a reward for doing something you’re already supposed to be doing, ” he said.
“I’m looking forward to this discus -
sion, since it was tabled at the Regents 
Meeting, to see what other proposals 
may arise, ” he said
Separately, the UC Board of 
Regents finalized a plan that would 
have Napolitano and Brown work 
together as a two-person team to work 
on improving the UC system’s finances.
“ As the sole committee members, 
UC President Janet Napolitano and 
Gov. Jerry Brown plan to exchange 
ideas that will be informed by reports 
and testimony from external and inter -
nal experts and stakeholders, including 
UC faculty and students, ” a statement 
on the UC Office of the President web -
site posted on Thursday said.
The UC Board of Regents will meet 
again next in March at UCSF.Board of  Regents Rejects Napolitano’s Proposal For Coach Bonuses
▶ REGENTS,  from page 1
Zev Hurwitz   zhurwitz@ucsd.edu 
Jacky To    j6to@ucsd.edureaders can contactLIGHTS & SIRENSLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edu.
Friday , Jan. 16
9:12 p.m.: Citizen Contact
A cushion was reported missing, 
suspected stolen. Police contacted.
12:37 a.m.: Suspicious Vehicle
A female was found passed out in 
the back of a vehicle. Residential 
Security Officer requested 
assistance. Three citations issued for 
consumption of alcohol by a minor.
Saturday, Jan. 17
2:29 a.m.: Assist Other Agency
San Diego Police received a 
report of kidnapping in the 
Thurgood Marshall College Upper 
Apartments. Passengers were 
initiating new roommate. Vehicle 
matching description was stopped 
and checked OK.
3:43 a.m.: Information
Police reported sounds of gun shots 
and people running. False alarm.
Sunday, Jan. 18
1:39 a.m.: Petty Theft
A box of bread was found to be 
missing from truck. Information 
noted.
2:07 a.m.: DUI
Community Service Officer 
reported unconscious passenger 
inside running vehicle.  DUI issued. 
3:40 a.m.: Citizen Contact
Residents in Marshall residence 
halls were causing disturbances. 
There was a report that they 
may have been throwing chairs. 
Information noted.
Monday, Jan. 19
10:51 p.m.: Information
Two males were reported to be 
pointing lasers at other apartments at 1 Miramar Building  4. Males were 
gone on arrival.
6:57 p.m.: Information
A person reported that they felt 
they were being followed after the 
person engaged with another party 
in a road rage incident. Information 
noted.
8:05 a.m.: Gas/Water/Sewer Leak
A nitrogen tank was found to be 
leaking in the Inflatable Building. 
Referred to Environment, Health & 
Safety.
Tuesday, Jan. 20
Unknown — 10:21 a.m.: Fraud
Reported stolen credit card 
information. Suspect(s) caused loss 
of $850.85. Report taken.
2:13 p.m.: Indecent Exposure
Adult male found to be 
masturbating inside vehicle in 
Parking Lot 408. Field interview 
taken.
6:45 a.m.: Indecent Exposure
Victim was asked for instructions 
and asker exposed his genitals. 
Report taken.
Wednesday, Jan. 21
1:01 p.m. to 1:45 p.m.
Employee whose job was terminated 
refused to leave Price Center. Report 
taken.
Thursday, Jan. 22
10:39 p.m.: Hazard Situation
A vehicle was found parked in the 
middle of the roadway near Cuzco 
House. Information noted.
 
— SIDDHARTH ATRE
Photography EditorDonaldson told the UCSD Guardian. 
“When clothes are thrown out, they 
just become part of the landfill. 
Instead, you can refresh your ward -
robe by thrifting. ” 
A total of 14 student vendors 
sold primarily second-hand cloth -
ing, shoes and accessories. Other 
miscellaneous items, such as video 
cameras and roller blades, were also 
available for purchase. 
Muir College junior Lauren Tran, 
who is majoring in international 
studies, was among those selling 
items and told the Guardian that the 
event was a practical way to put her 
clothes to use. “It’s really useful and really con -
venient, ” Tran told the Guardian. 
“Otherwise we’ d have to sell stuff 
online or go to a thrift store and sell 
it. Here, it’s right on campus. ”
Besides being economically 
friendly for students, Donaldson 
believes that thrifting is a way to 
reduce our overall consumption. 
“The average lifespan of any given 
piece of clothing is a year and a half, 
which is a tragedy, ” Donaldson said. 
“If we bought clothes that lasted and 
we bought clothes from each other, 
then we could reduce our energy and 
material consumption a lot. ”
Donaldson hopes that the event 
will continue next quarter and 
beyond her term on A.S. Council. Right now she is focused on laying a 
foundation for her successor.
Donaldson would like to see the 
event held next quarter in Matthew’s 
Quad at the same time as the ASCE’s 
Bear Garden during Earth Week. It 
is also her aim that future events will 
experience an increase in vendors, 
possibly bringing back more from 
outside thrift stores. 
“Ideally, we would get the num -
ber of vendors up and bring in some 
outside vendors, ” Donaldson said. “I 
would love to have it become more 
of a fair. ”
Br ynna  Bol t   bbolts@ucsd.edu readers can contactSecondhand Marketplace Could Become A Quarterly Event Series
▶ THRIFTY ,  from page 1
Like us on Facebook facebook.com/ucsdguardian4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 26, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CHARU  MEHRA
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
The Right To Party
The case for allowing sorority houses to host parties is strong, and points towards a  
safer, more empowered future for many young women around the country. 
With Week 4 off to a warm 
start, midterm season is 
officially in full swing. 
And while a lot of us have tests to 
cope with, the rest of us have long, 
tedious papers to write. If you’re super 
unlucky, you have both. If that’s your 
situation, refer back to last quarter’s 
“How to Fail Y our Midterms” guru for 
further advice. 
First and foremost, when embark -
ing on the path to a successful paper, 
it’s important to have your priori -
ties straight. Life is short, and there’s 
no guarantee you’ll have access to 
Netflix later on. Take advantage of 
your superb time-management skills 
by setting a 30-minute timer to alert 
yourself when the study break has 
finished. Once it rings, go ahead and 
push that reset button three or four 
times. After consuming hours of soap 
operas, reality shows, and cartoons, 
your brain will absorb a plethora of 
witty anecdotes that will prove to 
be highly useful for your essay. Just 
be sure to change all the characters’ 
names to alter the plot slightly.
Before you write a paper it is also 
crucial to expose yourself to a diver -
sity of other cultures. This can be 
achieved by mingling in coffee shops 
and wandering aimlessly through 
campus. Get out of your comfort zone 
and smile at the first person who 
dares to make eye contact with you. 
The confidence you gain from build -
ing social skills will inspire a charm -
ing tone for your paper. Ask strangers 
questions, such as where they are 
from, and try to find out an interest -
ing fact about their hometowns. This 
broad understanding of society will 
definitely make your writing skills 
stand out. Try not to think about that 
paper too much, though. Experience 
the present moment. Breathe deeply 
and fully observe the subtle nuances 
of your environment.
Perhaps you will discover some -
thing you’ve never known before, 
like the philosophical purpose of 
Geisel Library or “Fallen Star” in Earl 
Warren College. Or you may happen 
to glance upon the nude female statue 
behind the Biomedical Library whose 
hands shoot fountains of water for 
some grand artistic reason. Spend a 
couple hours meditating, reflecting 
and softly pondering the inspiration 
for these aesthetic choices.
Meditation is an essential process 
for developing the critical thinking 
skills that your teaching assistant and 
professor value so highly. Fortunately, 
there are a variety of ways to hone 
these techniques. Meditate on the 
201 to Westfield Shoppingtown UTC. 
Meditate as you slowly window shop 
by Macy’s and See’s Candies. Buy a 
box of pre-Valentine’s Day chocolates 
for yourself and meditate as you eat 
them, slowly sinking your teeth into 
the cocoa ganache filling.
Y ou may be tempted to rush home 
to get started on the 20-page essay 
your professor assigned. Resist this 
urge. Find out how many different 
places you can visit using public trans -
portation and really get acquainted 
with San Diego. As you leave UTC, do 
yourself a favor and get on the wrong 
bus. By the time you finish figuring 
out how to get home, you’ll finally 
be ready to take a nap. And after the 
simple refreshment of 10 hours of rest, 
that paper will basically write itself.Properly 
Postpone 
Writing 
Your Papers
Picture a college party designed by women, chaperoned by women and 
monitored by w omen. Perhaps it would just be another one of those 
claustrophobic parties with all the guests dancing closely together 
over a sticky linoleum floor in somebody’s basement. Or, perhaps it would 
be clean, well-decorated and pleasantly aromatic. It’s hard to say, but the 
Greek community intends to find out. Sorority women across the nation are 
advocating for permission to host their own house parties instead of passively 
depending on the fraternity houses, as is common across college campuses. 
Sexual assault is a constant issue on college campuses, and Greek life is directly 
correlated with a number of scandalous affairs.
 As reported by the National Institute of Justice, about a quarter of sexual 
assault victims were members of sororities, and over half the assaults against 
college women occurred at off-campus parties. Since women have grown aware 
of their increased risk as members of sororities, they are trying to change the 
system for the better. Allowing women to have more control over the social 
scene seems like a simple idea, but it has the potential to be incredibly effective. 
Sorority house parties will ideally create a safer, more female-friendly social 
scene for the Greek community at various universities. Previously, sororities avoided hosting events involving alcoholic beverages 
in an effort to keep insurance fees low, as mandated by the National Panhellenic 
Conference. At a glance, it may seem chivalrous of fraternities to cover the party 
costs, but they are actually causing women to pay the price in less transparent 
ways. A study at the University of Oregon revealed that Greek women on their 
campus were more likely to have experienced rape or attempted rape, than non-
Greek women. Sororities are no longer content to put up with the laid-back 
safety regimens at frat houses, which have resulted in the sexual violation of so 
many women. The implementation of policies in California such as the “Y es 
Means Y es” law are part of the overall movement of women being encouraged to 
actively and assertively pursue their share of social power.
Some may argue that allowing women to host parties to prevent sexual 
assault is like trying to solve a drinking problem by adding more alcohol. After 
all, it is not as though fraternity men are all fiendish booze-swilling monsters, 
while sorority girls are all responsible models of sobriety. The problem is that 
the current system shifts the balance of power unfairly in the direction of men. 
A sociology professor from the University of Connecticut, Matthew Hughey, 
who studied the history of Greek organizations, suggested that only letting 
See SORORITY,  page 5
“ American Sniper” inaccurately portrays history 
by erasing the negative roles American troops played 
and the positive roles the Iraqi civilians played in the 
U.S. 2003 invasion of Iraq, thus cementing itself as an 
American propaganda war film. 
Take, for example, the U.S. goal of trying to eradi -
cate the al-Qaida terrorists in Iraq. As Vox points out, 
al-Qaida did not actually have a large presence in Iraq 
until after the U.S. troops invaded. The U.S. invasion 
created anger among civilians and chaos in the streets, 
which in turn made Iraq a fertile ground for al-Qaida 
operations to become successful. The American 
presence essentially brought the terrorists that the 
Americans citizens feared into Iraq. This was a mis -
take by the Americans that damaged Iraq greatly. 
Trying to remove the al-Qaida presence in Iraq 
limited success as well, and it wasn’t until the Anbar 
Awakening that the tides turned for the better. The 
Anbar Awakening was an Iraqi civilian-led revolt 
against al-Qaida in the province of Anbar, where 
al-Qaida was the strongest at the time. A war report 
written by the Understanding War Organization cited 
the importance of the Anbar Awakening because it 
highlighted the large effect of local Iraqi support in 
expelling enemy forces. 
“ American Sniper” plainly ignored this part of 
the history of the 2003 U.S. invasion, making it con -
veniently easy for the Iraqi civilians to be portrayed 
as one-dimensional villains and for the American 
troops to be portrayed as righteous heroes. “ American 
Sniper” is a movie depicting a one-sided, glori -
fied history, thereby making it straight propaganda. 
Americans should know better than to fall for such 
tricks.
— AYAT AMIN
Staff Writer“ American Sniper” is no propaganda piece. 
Director Clint Eastwood doesn’t have a right-wing 
agenda or even a left-wing ax to grind. It’s simply 
a story about the late Chris Kyle and troops just 
like him.
Vox news writer Zack Beauchamp jumps to 
biased conclusions in his disingenuous analy -
sis, the main one being that “‘ American Sniper’ 
is a dishonest whitewash of the Iraq war. ” Not 
surprising coming from a former editor for 
ThinkProgress. However, critics like Beauchamp 
have greatly misunderstood the film. They’re 
viewing things from a bird’s-eye view, when 
they should be looking through a microscope. 
“ American Sniper” isn’t about the geopolitics sur -
rounding the Iraq War. “There’s no Dick Cheney, 
no Colin Powell at the [United Nations], ” cries the 
confused Beauchamp. The thing is, this isn’t the 
story of Dick Cheney or Colin Powell — this is 
Chris Kyle’s story. Not only that, but it’s a veteran’s 
story. “ American Sniper” could have been about 
any war, but because this is a biographical drama, 
the setting happens to be in Iraq.
Bradley Cooper put it best: “We need to pay 
attention to our vets. It doesn’t go any farther than 
that. It’s not a political discussion about war. ”
 Not every film is going to be a “Platoon” or 
an “ Apocalypse Now. ” In fact, that’s exactly what 
“ American Sniper” political critics despise — that 
it is not those films and is instead apolitical. 
Eastwood simply chose to examine one man’s life 
on the front lines and his struggles back home, 
and that has made the Michael Moores of the 
world froth at the mouth.
— JORDAN UTLEY-THOMSON
Staff WriterChris Kyle is an American hero for some, a ter -
rific soldier and sniper for others. However, he did 
not fight terrorism. He fought a regime, one that 
supposedly possessed weapons of mass destruc -
tion, maybe even nuclear ones.
Iraq’s leader, Saddam Hussein, was already 
on the White House’s list of people to watch 
when President Bush took office in 2000. After 
9/11, Afghanistan was clearly the key target in 
an attempt to fight al-Qaida, after the attacks on 
the U.S. in 2001. Y et, when the U.S. invaded Iraq 
in 2003, it dispatched the Iraqi army and pro -
vided easy and well-trained targets for al-Qaida 
recruitment. This invasion was meant to salvage 
American interests in the region, especially oil, 
nothing more. Al-Qaida in Iraq was only founded 
in Oct. 2004, says the Center for Strategic and 
International Studies
Clint Eastwood’s latest movie, “ American 
Sniper, ” has sparked controversy because it is try -
ing to convince the public of the opposite. It jumps 
from images of 9/11 to Chris Kyle on the ground 
in Iraq. It completely ignores the parts of the con -
flict when many Iraqis rose to fight the terrorists 
in their backyards. In the movie, every Iraqi is 
displayed as a potential threat, menace or terrorist. 
Eastwood cannot expect to get away with depict -
ing a war against terrorism that didn’t occur in 
Iraq until after the American invasion.
“ American Sniper” is a farce made of American 
patriotism and execrable historical accuracy. It 
very wrongly depicts a war that had, at first, every -
thing to do with American interests and nothing 
to do with 9/11.
— MARCUS THUILLER
Staff WriterFilm Fails to Properly Recognize 
Positive Efforts of  Iraqi Community Clint Eastwood Created a Biographical 
Film, Not Iraq War Propoganda American Sniper Oversimplifies the 
Complex Events Behind the Iraq War 
QUICK TAKESCLINT EASTWOOD’S MOST RECENT FILM, AMERICAN SNIPER, HAS GARNERED COPIOUS OF PRAISE AND 
CRITICISM ALIKE FOR ITS PORTRAYAL OF THE AMERICAN IRAQ WAR VETERAN, CHRIS KYLE. How-to Guru
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
ILLUSTRATION BY ANNIE LIUBY CASSIA POLLOCK  EDITORIAL ASSISTANT OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 26, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
fraternities host the parties has 
created a structural form of gender 
inequality. This has limited the social 
opportunities for sororities to gain 
cultural respect. Facilitating sororities 
to host their own parties will help to 
restore a fair balance of power that 
will make women less vulnerable to 
systematic abuse.
Since men hold all the authority 
to choose which guests are valuable 
enough to gain entrance to their 
parties, this results in female guests 
being exclusively selected based on 
whether their appearance aligns 
with male preferences. Of course 
this fosters an intensely competitive, 
superficial vibe among the female attendees who all want to look hot 
enough to get in. That in turn may 
make women less likely to look out 
for each other. Michael Kimmel, a 
professor of sociology and gender 
studies from Stony Brook University, 
argued that you can detect the 
hierarchies of power based on who 
has dressed up for whom. The 
fraternity men often dress very 
casually compared to the women at 
frat parties, donning flip-flops while 
the women wear high heels. 
Certain benefits of sorority 
houses hosting their own parties 
and being the gatekeepers to social 
events include establishing their own 
standard for attendees. Men may be 
encouraged to dress more formally 
and maintain a certain gentlemanly standard of conduct to enter and 
remain at a sorority-hosted party. If a 
man gains a bad reputation through 
word-of-mouth or ill treatment of 
any woman, the sororities may decide 
to ban him from their events. These 
sort of precautions build a much safer 
environment for women. 
There will always inevitably be 
some chaotic events at parties because 
mistakes are bound to happen. But 
ultimately, both sexes deserve the 
opportunity to contribute their 
strengths and weaknesses to the 
cultural dynamic. Sororities hosting 
their own parties is one step in the 
right direction.
Registration for WINTER Qtr is NOW open!
Register online at 
as.ucsd.edu/saferides
A.S. Safe Rides allows register ed un dergradua te 
studen ts to  get 3  FREE rides per quarter.
Studen ts must register  at lea st 24 hours
prio r to their first ride.  A.S. Safe Rides 
asucsd asucsdWORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
Parties Run by Females Will Balance the Scales of  Gender Inequality
▶ SORORITY,  from page 4GOT ISSUES?
BE HEARD
BY YOUR PEERS!SEND YOUR 
LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
READERS CAN CONTACT
Cassia Pollock  chpolloc@UCSD.EDU6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 26, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEA TURES
It’s likely that if you were to mention a cappella to college students, “Pitch Perfect” may 
be entangled with their responses. That’s a start for tapping into the sonorous 
world of a cappella, but hearing contemporary mashups of songs 
by talented, young vocal artists is much closer to home. In fact, 
it’ll be as close to home as Mandeville Auditorium. With the 
International Championship of Collegiate A Cappella West 
Quarterfinal approaching this Saturday, Jan. 31, the 
UCSD Guardian was able to sit down with 
the qualifying UCSD Daughters of Triton 
President Mikaela Oen and the host for this 
tournament, UCSD Tritones President 
Aleesha Anderson.
Overlooking the setting sun from the 
Rady School of Management, it was 
compelling  to ask if Oen and Anderson 
matriculated before “Pitch Perfect” — 
they did. Although I, myself, might have 
hopped onto the a cappella bandwagon 
post-“Pitch Perfect, ” Oen and Anderson 
had been rooted in music long before 
college.
“For me, I never really sang in high 
school, but I did piano. When I was 
in college, I decided to try singing, and it 
turned out that I got into DOTs and really, 
really loved it, ” Oen said.
Anderson, on the other hand, had been involved in 
her high school choir and wanted to transition into 
another singing community when she entered university. 
Growing indifferent to the less contemporary music of 
traditional choir, a cappella was her serendipitous combination of 
more freedom and being able to sing songs she wanted to sing.
From their freshmen year tryouts that brought an air of calm to Oen and only 
the “good kind of nervous” for Anderson, both are now their respective group’s leaders, 
which, in Anderson’s case, came as a surprise.
“I never expected to be president. Tritones has been such a big part of my undergraduate time — I don’t know 
if I’ve spent an equal amount or more time on Tritones or classes, ” said Anderson, laughing. “ A lot of people graduated, and I felt it was 
my responsibility to step up and start giving back … because I’ve gotten a lot out of my past three years. It’s a lot of work, but it’s rewarding. ” 
Oen laughed at the possibility of becoming president as a freshman but was actually determined to make it happen all along.
“Y eah, I knew I really wanted to get ready for the role and contribute the most I can to the group while I’m here … I just feel like I want to give as much as I can to 
this group while I’m here because four years is really short, ” she said.
Of course, commitment doesn’t always come easy, and it was thanks to a few key leaders and mentors who kept Oen and Anderson in a cappella.
“DOTs are such good female role models. We had a really strong president [when I joined] who was really strict but who could also relate to the girls while being 
gentle. It was a really good balance. I was thinking when I get older, I really want to be like her. She’s such a strong, inspirational leader, and now I’m president, ” Oen said.
For Anderson, that sense of support came from former Tritones President Amy Williams.
“When I got into the group, I was the only freshman, ” Anderson said. “ And you need someone to take you under their wing and say, ‘This is how 
everything works. ’ … [Williams] was the one who brought me into things. And I still talk to her about Tritones and [say] ‘Man, this is happening, what 
should I do?’”
Gigs and other performances through their years motivated and inspired their singing as well. As a freshman, Anderson’s choir performances didn’t 
compare to a university-level a cappella.
“[They] brought us to different places all over San Diego, and it was super exciting. I felt like we were professional entertainers. ” 
Oen found that her freshman year experience of Take Back the Night, an event hosted by UCSD as part of Sexual Assault Awareness Month, reminded 
her why she joined music.FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
TEIKO  Y AKOBSON
features@ucsdguardian.org
STEPPING INTO 
THE SPOTLIGHT
January will be ending in a week of the arts, colored by the onset 
of showcases and competitions hosted by UCSD’s own performing 
arts organizations. Take a couple of minutes to find out what it’s 
like to prepare for the big stage, as recounted by the student leaders 
of the Daughters of Triton, the Tritones, and the Identity Project. Written By Vincent Pham  // Training & Development Manager
Photos By Megan Lao  
Continued on pg 7FEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 26, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
“We have a chance to really affect people and give voice to others who might 
not be able to speak up or who aren’t ready to speak up, ” said Oen. “For me, that 
was one of the most memorable events. As a freshman, I was like ‘Wow. ’ It’s not 
just a cappella. It can be fun but also really moving. ”
Through experiences such as these, a cappella has matured more than just the 
vocals of these brilliant performers. Both developed a sense of consciousness of 
their own actions, reflecting on the a cappella’s driving force — the group. Oen 
grew more confident and aware of herself through leadership roles, balancing the 
roles of keeping her vocalists on task but also “prioritizing the group’s happiness” 
and always maintaining their motto: “Y ou get what you put into it. ”
“Being an officer is just completely different from being a member of the a 
cappella group, ” Anderson added. “But [a cappella] has been a stable part of my 
life that has been constant for all four years.  Y ou get to form close bonds with 
[the group] ...  and it’s not because you’re getting a grade or making money … it’s 
because you really like what you’re doing. I’m really grateful to have that sort of 
thing in my life. ”
As Oen and Anderson move onto the next scores of their lives, reminiscing  
about the impromptu street singing or Snow White-esque breakfast making on 
retreat, the two are coming to a close on a high note.
“I can’t imagine not having DOTs in my college career, ” said Oen.
Anderson added, “I just feel like [Tritones] is a necessary part of my life. ”Continued from pg 6
ICCA Quarterfinals
January 31st, 7 p.m.
Mandeville Auditorium
Tickets on-sale at:
https://www.freshtix.com/
events/icca-west-qf-sandiego-2015 Art Counts
January 28th, 6 p.m.
Mandeville Auditorium
Free admission
Upcoming Events8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 26, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEA TURES
Written By  Teiko Yakobson  // Features Editor
From the World   
of Entertainment
Photos By  Megan Lao  
For most of us, college is a time of finding our identity. While checking a box next to a preferred choice out of a long list of majors 
available at UCSD may or may not have seemed definitive at the time of filling out college applications, it has, in fact, taken a large part 
in shaping each person’s collegiate identity. If it hadn’t, then the answer to every icebreaker initiated in class, in student organization 
general body meetings and even at parties wouldn’t begin with the same statement: “Hi, my name is … and my major is … ” It’s clearly one of 
the attributes that UCSD students consider and identify themselves with most frequently, but does it need to be the only one?
In case the thought of a campus where the only quality that mattered about you was your major sounded repulsively dull — or, perhaps, 
needlessly rigid — rest assured that you are not bearing this thought alone. For Whitney Zhu, founder of the Identity Project, the realization 
that her major alone was insufficient to completely describe her came in the middle of her fourth year at UCSD.
“I felt like you choose your major, and that major becomes you, ” Zhu recalled. “Or you always have a label: Either you’re a scientist or an 
artist or you do this or you do that, but oftentimes you’re more than that. Identity shouldn’t be about only those things. ”
Like many students, Zhu was heavily dedicated to extracurricular activities — namely dance —that she felt contributed to her overall 
identity as much as her academics. While classes provided innumerable opportunities to express herself academically, the chance for Zhu to 
indulge in her creative passion to the same degree seemed to lay far and in between. Dance practices helped as an outlet, but Zhu took issue 
that the dance community, although fit with friendly and enthusiastic individuals, lacked a platform to promote intermixing between groups 
and getting to know one another.
“For different dance teams, we knew they existed, but we didn’t really see them or know who their members were, ” Zhu, a member of the 
female hip-hop crew 4N01, said. “We wanted to host an event for the dance community to actually get together and get to know each other. ”
What our campus needed, and seemed to lack, was a shared platform for artists and performers to celebrate the diverse facets of their 
individual talents and build a closer community together. To answer that need, Zhu created the Identity Project.
The Identity Project, although born from within the UCSD dance community, has since branched off to take all artists under its wing. The 
ultimate goal, as Zhu puts it, is to “change or touch peoples’ lives through the medium of entertainment. ” In their first year alone, the group 
has already brought a wide variety of events to life on campus, from mini festivals to a “Free Hugs” campaign on Library Walk.
A major focus of their organization, however, is the arrangement of multiple student performance showcases held throughout the year. 
Members of the Identity Project, who welcomingly include just about anyone who shoots them an email declaring interest, work for months 
fiddling with budgets, scheduling performers and implementing marketing plans to hold these events for the thrill of both student performers 
and audience members alike.
Their next showcase, which will be hitting the Mandeville Auditorium this upcoming Wednesday, Jan. 28 at 6 p.m., is their sequel to a 
similar event held last year in Price Center Plaza called Art Counts. Several UCSD-bred dance teams and musical acts are scheduled to take 
the stage as well as popular Y ouTube star JR Aquino. 
“We want to have [a] platform for people to perform and to bring different creative individuals out and give them an opportunity, an 
atmosphere and an environment within which they can connect with different people, ” Zhu said.
Diverging from the first rendition of the event, this year’s Art Counts will encompass the theme “Breaking Free. ” Zhu expects this theme 
to add another layer of dimension to the event by reminding both performers and attendees alike to leave behind anything restraining them 
from actively pursuing their dreams.
“Oftentimes, the biggest person who holds us back is ourselves, ” Zhu said. “So it’s like ‘Breaking Free’ from ourselves as well as from the 
standards other people set for us. ”
After Art Counts, the Identity Project’s next goal is bringing back the Dream Festival. Last year the festival looked like a “mini Sun 
God” with 18 performers, 15 vendors and over 1,000 attendees. Although funding seems to be a force working against it 
this year, Zhu expressed that the Identity Project will try to do what it can to pull another festival together.
As for those with the ambition to start the next big movement on UCSD’s campus, Zhu had a few words 
of advice gathered from the upbringing of the Identity Project.
“If you want to start something, you have to get used to being uncomfortable, ” Zhu said. 
“Uncomfortable asking people for help ... or trying to make new friends that can help you. There’s 
a lot of rejection that’s involved. Y ou don’t have to be completely OK with it, but you need to get 
used to the idea of people say ‘no’ and you’ll be forced to go out of your comfort zone. Don’t let 
‘no’ be your final answer; that’s a big part of it. ”   
SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 26, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
secure the 64–56 win.
“It seemed like we were making 
charges, and then we would turn 
the ball over and they would make 
a basket, ” Carlisle said. “I think it 
was more than that. I don’t think 
defensively we did well, we didn’t 
stop them at all and offensively we 
didn’t convert. ”
Junior guard Jamie Katuna was 
the only Triton in double figures 
with 11 points as Cal State San 
Bernardino limited breakout star 
junior forward Farrah Shokoor to 
only six points and seven rebounds. 
Back in action after missing four 
games, sophomore guard Haley An -
derson and senior guard Miranda 
Seto (eight points, nine rebounds) 
combined to go just 5–20 from the 
field in the losing effort.
On Saturday, UCSD took on the 
CCAA ’s No. 1 squad in Humboldt 
State. The Tritons put up a great 
fight but ultimately came up short 
in the 67–64 defeat.
After the lack of effort in 
Friday’s game, UCSD came out 
with intensity and dominated the 
early part of the game. They built 
up a 22–20 lead while holding 
the conference leaders in check. 
However, a quick 8–2 run by the 
visitors brought the score to 28–24 
for Humboldt State at halftime.
“In the first half, I think we had 
some opportunities, but we had 
some turnovers and didn’t get some 
defensive stops, ” UCSD head coach 
Heidi VanDerveer said. “We had 
momentum. ”
Humboldt State came back after 
halftime and backed their 11–1 league record to build a six-point 
lead. But UCSD persisted and took 
a 56–55 lead with 4:44 left in the 
game. 
UCSD pulled within two with 
three seconds remaining on a 
three-pointer by sophomore guard 
Beth Mounier, but it was too little 
too late for the Tritons who had to 
surrender.
“We made a great run just down 
the stretch; we made some plays 
but not enough to win and they did 
[make plays], ” VanDerveer said.
Senior forward McKennan 
Bertsch finished with 14 points, 
while Seto and Mounier scored 12 
points apiece. Senior center Dana 
Webster had a double-double with 
10 points and 10 rebounds. It was 
another tough game for Shokoor 
who was surprisingly held in check 
for the second consecutive game. 
Humboldt State had a determining 
advantage on the free-throw line, 
shooting 28 to UCSD’s 16.
“This was probably the first 
weekend that we’ve been healthy, 
and we’re trying to figure out differ -
ent lineups who play well together, 
so I think ‘out of sync’ is a good 
[phrase to describe the situation], ” 
VanDerveer said. “We have to play 
with a greater sense of urgency, 
play with better rhythm and better 
t e m p o.”
Next Friday is Spirit Night at 
RIMAC Arena as UCSD hosts Cal 
State East Bay at 5:30 p.m. The Tri -
tons then play Cal State Monterey 
Bay at home on Saturday, with 
tipoff also at 5:30 p.m.    
New Y ear, 
New Goals! 
Start Y our Graduate 
Degree at APU.  
16176
Find your program today!  
apu.edu/programs
Choose from:
Business and Leadership  
MBA, Management, Leadership, Accounting
Health Care  
Athletic Training, Physical Therapy, Nursing
Education  
Educational Leadership, School Counseling and School Psychology, 
Teacher Education, Higher Education
Helping Professions  
MFT, Psychology, Social WorkJoin the 
4,200+ graduate students  
currently advancing 
their education  
at APU.
Azusa  |  High Desert  |  Inland Empire  |  Los Angeles 
Murrieta  |  Orange County  |  San Diego  |  OnlineOccupations that require a master’s degree are projected to grow the 
fastest over the next eight years, making graduate school a worthwhile 
investment as you prepare to impact your field. Start planning now 
and further your career goals with a graduate degree from Azusa Pacific University, one of the nation’s top Christian universities.
15–11. The Trojans continued to 
build upon their lead, and a service 
error gave them the set 25–16
In the third and final set, the 
Tritons put up much more of a fight 
to pressure USC. Despite an early 
Trojans’ edge, a four-point swing 
from the Tritons featuring a double 
block from Syftestad and redshirt 
freshman middle blocker Bryan 
Zhu, as well as kills from Syftestad 
and sophomore outside hitter Ian 
Colbert, brought the teams level 
at 7–7. Once again, however, the 
Trojans managed to push away from 
the Tritons to take a 15–10 lead. 
UCSD looked to stage a late fight by 
taking three points a row featuring 
Syftestad’s 10th kill of the match, 
bringing the scores to 22–18, but 
ultimately USC proved their worth 
and powered through to take the 
set 25–19 and a deserved match 
victory.
It was a similar story as UCSD 
travelled to California Baptist 
University on Friday. The Tritons 
started the better of the two sides 
taking a 5–1 lead thanks to a three-
point service rotation from junior 
outside hitter Kirill Rudenko, which 
included an ace. However, three 
attacking errors in a row in the mid -
dle of the set from UCSD gave CBU 
their first lead at 14–13. The Lancers 
kept the lead for the rest of the set, 
eventually triumphing 25–21.
In the second, the Tritons faced 
an early uphill battle, falling behind dramatically at 9–1. The Tritons 
found it nearly impossible to get 
back into the game after this, and a 
six-point surge at the end of the set 
helped CBU take the second set at a 
25–13 score.
The third set proved to be a 
replay of the second as UCSD 
quickly fell behind 5–1 much due to 
three aces from the Lancers’ Rocky 
DeLyon. The momentum stayed 
with CBU who dominated proceed -
ings with flourishes of unanswered 
points, quickly building up a 16–4 
lead. Kills from outside hitters red -
shirt freshman Calvin Manchenko 
and freshman Luke La Mont looked 
to spark life into the Tritons’ offense 
but proved to be of no avail as CBU 
took the set 25–11 and left the 
Tritons 1–5 overall and 0–4 in the 
Mountain Pacific Sports Federation.
Ring attributed the tough start 
to the season to a lack of experience 
for a team that features 16 fresh -
men.
“Our inexperience and knowing 
how to play in a match like this, to 
struggle and how to pull yourself 
out of it [are] challenging as well, ” 
Ring said. 
The Tritons return home for 
their next encounter on Wednesday, 
Jan. 28, hosting Princeton Univer -
sity at 6 p.m. UCSD Tied for Fifth in League Standings
Tritons Still Looking for First League Victory▶ W. BASKETBALL,  from page 12
▶ M. VOLLEYBALL,  from page 12readers can contact
  marcus  thuillier    mthuilli@ucsd.edu 
readers can contact
  liam  leahy     lleahy@ucsd.edu 
10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 26, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
CLASSIFIEDS$
Guar dian Classi/f_ieds ar e FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifieds
crossword
ACROSS
1 Delhi garb
5 Protuberance9 Flashy14 Envelop15 Wickedness16 “The Waste Land” poet
17 Land in water
18 Profound19 Engaged in
20 Movie theater appliance
23 Surround with an aura
24 SSS word
25 Lawyers’ org.
28 Parcel, possibly
32 WWII pres.
35 Hawaiian bird
36 Uncouth person
37 Seed covering
39 Word before ends of 20A, 28A, 48A
and 58A
42 Faucet brand
43 Clear thinking
45 Greek war god
47 Rtes.48 Cocktail implement
52 Last chapter
53 Major ISP
54 Hospital workers
58 Sycophant’s reward
61 Leon Uris novel
64 Pig noise
65 Actor Franco
66 Jumps ship
67 Long ago
68 Hydroxyl compound
69 Silvery food fish
70 College VIP
71 Indian royaltyDOWN
1  Sweeping blow
2 Illegal firing?
3 Writer Ellison
4 Emetic medication
5 “Air Music” composer
6 Kitchen kiln
7 Carpe __!
8 Half of UTEP
9 Worn ornaments
10 Banned spray
11 Quick turn
12 Tony winner Caldwell
13 Since 1/1
21 “The Good Earth” wife
22 Cyclades island
25 Loathe
26 Razzed
27 Neural transmitters
29 Kind of fingerprint
30 Test versions
31 River regulator
32 Fabricated33 Engulf
34 Inflexible
38 Taylor who played Cleo
40 Component of some TVs
41 Dutch brew
44 Of Russian monarchy
46 Porgy49 Elton’s john
50 One of the Blues Brothers
51 Scandinavian coins
55 City in Tuscany
56 Bankrupt energy giant
57 Popular vodka, familiarly
58 Buffalo athlete
59 Baseball team
60 Andes autocrat
61 NFL passers
62 Emeril’s exclamation
63 CompeteBIKES
2013 Cannondale Supersix 5 105 Road Bike 
- $1250. This bike has rarely been used and is in like new superb condition. This bike is a size 54cm. The Supersix is still considered one of the best handling bikes on the road today. Listing ID: 114281210 at ucsdguard
-
ian.org/classifieds for more information
Designer 3 Speed Bike - $200. Stylish urban 
or beach cruiser for sale. Not ridden much. A little weathered from being outside, but still cute and rides fine and has a three 
speed internal hub for easy cruising. Listing 
ID: 114281209 at ucsdguardian.org/clas
-
sifieds for more information
Kettler Car Tricycle - $35. Tricycle with push 
bar. Listing ID: 114281208 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
BOATS
Mercury Marine Bravoi Prop - $250. Brand 
new Mercury Marine Bravoi 4 blade 22 pitch propeller. Listing ID: 114281320 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
08 Triton TR196 with Mercury - $13975. 
Trailer is terrific shape. Tires are good. Does come with the spare. Charger does work 
properly. It does have a dual bank for troll
-
ing engine and a single for running battery. Listing ID: 114281319 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
2003 Commander 32 SIGNATURE Boat 
for Sale - $39999. This 2003 Commander 32 Signature has lived her life in the the fresh water of the Colorado river and Lake Havasu and has created countless memo
-
ries for her one-owner family. She’s sleek, fast, and pristine, ideally suited to her patri
-
otic theme whether on the lake or blasting ocean swells. She’s a perfect high-speed weekender play machine with full-output stereo system and an interior fridge, sofa, and comfy V-berth. Listing ID: 114281318 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
ELECTRONICS
Sony Wega Trinitron - $45. 27” Sony Wega Trinitron with original stand, remote, and manual. Still in attractive condition. Picture is the same as when I bought it. Listing ID: 114281237 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
17 Inch Gaming Laptop - $350. Terrific con
-
dition and runs great. Battery holds a good 
charge, fast internet. 17.3in Sager Clevo NP 
series. Listing ID: 114281236 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
ASUS NEXUS 7 TABLET 32GB - $120. Terrific 
condition. Comes with charger. Listing ID: 114281233 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
t
your visio n,
our missio n.
outfitters@ucsd.eduCreate custom a pparel to 
promote your student 
organiza tion with Triton 
Outfitter's new Made TO Order program!
LECT URENOTES
IS HIR ING
NOTETAKERS
FOR WINTER ‘15
Pick up an application at
Lecture Notes in the
Student Center
Must have 3.0 or better
Application & SAMPLE NOTES
 are due Wed of finals week
as-lecture-n otes@ucsd.eduwww.ucsdguardian.org/advertising
.com/ucsdguardian
CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 260, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
D. SABELA GRIMES
THE LOFT, PRICE CENTERTUE1.27 • 8pmTahrirCAMPUS
CALENDAR
JAN 26 - FEB 012015 POWERED BY THE CHANCELLOR’S OFFICE AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guar dian
Calendar
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar @
ucsdgu ardian .orgMON1.26 WED1.28 TUE1.27
11am
STUDENT HEALTH ADVOCATES RECRUITMENT 2015 - STUDENT 
HEALTH SERVICES, MURRAY’S PLACE CONF RM
Are you interested in providing health education to your peers? 
Do you want to develop your leadership skills? If so, then apply to the Student Health Advocate Program (SHA)!  Applications will be distributed at the Information Sessions.
2pm
HUNGRY FOR HEALTHY: AVOCADO EGG SALAD AND MELON 
MOCKTAIL - THE ZONE
Join us today for this week's cooking demonstration of Avocado 
Egg Salad & Melon Mocktail! The cooking demo will be led by The Student Health Advocates, and all supplies and ingredients are provided. Hungry For Healthy is a free program here at The Zone, but space is limited, so it is first come, first served.
6pm
LSAT 101 - PC WEST, WARREN RM
Come and learn about the Law School Admissions Test! Required for most accredited law schools in the U.S., the LSAT is a unique standardized test and unlike any other you might take. Come learn the basics of the test and learn tips on how to tackle the test from a professional LSAT prep instructor.11am
ART AND SOUL: DECORATE YOUR KEYS - THE ZONE
Tired of fumbling with your key chain at your door? Want 
to differentiate your keys and add a pop of bling? Join the 
Zone to decorate your keys! Workshops are free; you 
supply the keys, the zone will provide paints and string if 
you wish to fashion an old key into a bracelet or necklace. Space is limited and first come, first served.
12pm
NATIONAL KAZOO DAY - GEISEL LIBRARY, SEUSS ROOM
National Kazoo Day. Free event. Free kazoo. Come to sort through some fascinating kazoo literature (scholarly 
articles and musical scores) and listen to some new 
chamber music for kazoo composed by alumni of UC San 
Diego. Encore songs from The Cat in the Hat Songbook will be performed, if the audience insists. A collection of kazoos from many decades and many countries will be on view and, while supplies last, a free kazoo for attendees.
3pm
CONSUMER RIGHTS & DEBT - PC WEST, WARREN RM
Most people have some kind of consumer debt- credit cards, car loans, student loans, etc. Come learn from an attorney the rights and responsibilities of both the borrower and lender in our current economic climate. This workshop will include some of the new banking regulations- it is not to be missed!
4pm
PARTY TIME, NOT JAIL TIME - PC WEST, WARREN RM
Student Legal Services' Director Jon Carlos Senour, Esq. will explain how to address alcohol and drug-related citations and will provide guidance on how to avoid receiving these types of citations. This workshop is part of the Student Legal Services "Discover the Law" series. Attend a total of four eligible workshops to receive your Certificate of Achievement! Visit the Student Legal Services website for more information.
5pm
CHANGE IN MODERN AFRICA GLOBAL SEMINAR - ERC, CONF 
RM
Interested in spending 5 weeks in Cape Town, South Africa 
this summer? Come to our info session to learn more about program's courses and steps to applyFRI1.30
11am
BRAZILIAN STUDENT ASSOCIATION NATIONAL CONFERENCE - PC 
EAST, LEVEL 4, FORUM
BRASA National Conference (BNC) has as its primary goal to 
promote a dynamic interaction between students and 
distinguished speakers. BNC is the second of the 4 conferences 
sponsored by the National BRASA - Brazilian Student Association. 
Students will have the opportunity of learning from renowned speakers by working together with them in small groups to solve real-world problems in Brazilian society and potentially continue their projects after the conference. Fee $35 - limited tickets.
11am
R&R SQUAD - THE ZONE
The R&R Squad is in! Come in and de-stress with a massage! Learn more about our well-being resources on campus while get a 5-10 minute low-intensity back, neck, and arm massage from one of our trained wellness peers!3pm
WILLS & LIVING WILLS - PC WEST, MARSHALL RM
What is the difference between a Will and a Living Will? And 
where does "Power of Attorney" fit in with all of that? Learn 
from an attorney the difference between these basic but 
important estate planning documents that all people should 
have in place.
5pm
FLAMENCO AND GITANO CULTURE IN SPAIN GLOBAL SEMINAR - 
INTERNATIONAL CENTER, OCEANIDS PAVILION
Interested in spending 5 weeks in Cadiz, Spain this summer? 
Come to our info session to learn more about program's courses 
and steps to apply!
SAT1.31
8pm
SIXTH COLLEGE SEMI-FORMAL: ADVENTURE IS UP THERE! - 
SAN DIEGO NATURAL HISTORY MUSEUM
Sixth College Special Events Committee promises a night 
full of adventure, dancing and, of course, balloons!THU1.29
11:30am
15TH ANNIVERSARY LGBT OPEN HOUSE - LGBT RESOURCE 
CENTER
In honor of our 15th years on campus, we will have on 
display milestones and photographs from each of the last 15 years, as well as opportunities to browse our historical collection archives. If you have never been to the LGBT Resource Center, it will be a great day to visit us, take a tour, and learn about who we are and the community we build at UC San Diego.
5pm
CANDLE LIGHT YOGA - THE ZONE
Stretch, relax, and release your day. Enjoy an evening of stress relieving yoga set to candle light, focusing on postures to refresh your body and mind.
The postseason picture is only 
getting narrower for the UCSD 
women’s basketball team after this 
weekend’s pair of losses in crucial 
conference games. The Tritons 
were defeated 64–56 against Cal 
State San Bernardino and 67–64 to 
Humboldt State to bring them to 
9–8 overall and 7–5 in the Cali -
fornia Collegiate Athletic Associa -
tion, good for a tie for fifth place in 
league standings. 
It was a tight game early on Fri -
day evening, with the Tritons taking 
an 8–7 lead after five minutes of 
play. However, UCSD began to ac -
cumulate turnovers, and Cal State 
San Bernardino took the transition 
opportunities to build a 21–13 lead. 
UCSD never got into an offensive 
or defensive rhythm and went into 
halftime with a 36–27 deficit.
“They came out and played 
harder than us, ” UCSD assistant 
coach Chelsea Carlisle said. “They 
did what they do really well, and we didn’t really play our game or 
match their intensity or energy in 
any way. ”
UCSD had to play catch up 
during the entire second half. They 
pushed hard and made runs, even 
coming within three points at 
44–41 with 14 minutes remaining. 
However, indiscipline on defense 
cost them dearly, as Cal State San Bernardino got the ball inside for 
easy baskets in the paint. 
The offense also stalled, as Cal 
State San Bernardino did a good job 
to keep the Tritons in front of them 
and deny access to the paint. Every 
run seemed to be contained as Cal 
State San Bernardino went on to 
See W. BASKETBALL , page 9The drought continues for the 
UCSD men’s volleyball team who 
recorded back-to-back losses this 
past week, falling in three sets in 
both encounters. The Tritons were 
defeated 25–14, 25–16, 25–19 
by No. 5 University of Southern 
California on Thursday night’s 
home opener at RIMAC Arena 
before falling to California Baptist 
University by scores of 25–21, 
25–13, 25–11 at Van Dyne Gym the 
following night. 
“Our guys are working hard, 
but there’s another level that we 
need to get to with our vision and 
adjusting to the speed of the game, ” 
UCSD head coach Kevin Ring told 
the UCSD Athletics Department. 
“There are some athletic teams [that 
we are facing] who are running a 
fast offense. ”
Thursday’s match began with 
USC proving their esteemed rank -
ing as the side produced a triple 
block to grab the opening point and another block from outside hitter 
Alex Slaught to double their lead. 
Despite a quick visitor lead, the 
Tritons fought back, producing five 
kills to bring them within one point 
of the Trojans at 9–8. However, 
USC picked up the next six points, 
which featured three attacking er -
rors and a service error on UCSD’s 
part to allow a commanding lead 
at 15–8. From there on out, the 
Trojans maintained the upper hand 
to take the set 25–14.
In the second set, it was the 
Tritons who opened up the scoring 
with a block from freshman setter 
Milosh Stojcic. UCSD built off 
their momentum to take a 5–3 lead 
thanks to a kill from freshman op -
posite hitter Tanner Syftestad. How -
ever, the advantage was short-lived, 
as the Trojans went on to take the 
next nine points leaving the Tritons 
trailing 12–5. Once again the deficit 
proved too great to overcome, as 
the closest UCSD came to closing 
the gap was within four points at 
See M. VOLLEYBALL , page 9SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
BRANDON  YU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 26, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
Win Streak Ends at Six MEN'S BASKETBALL
Tritons crush CSU San Bernardino but fall short against Humboldt State in CCAA home action. 
BY DANIEL SUNG  SENIOR STAFF WRITER // PHOTO BY ALWIN SZETO
The UCSD men’s basketball team 
extended its win streak this past 
Friday night at RIMAC Arena, 
defeating Cal State San Bernardino (6–6) 74–52 
but saw its hot hand end the following night 
in a 83–73 home loss to Humboldt State (6–6). 
UCSD now stands at 10–6 overall and 8–4 in 
California Collegiate Athletic Association play. 
The victory on Friday night was a rare feat 
for UCSD, as it was the first time the Tritons 
had defeated Cal State San Bernardino (6-6) 
since 2009.
“ A couple of guys were talking in the locker 
room [about] how my class [hasn’t] beaten [Cal 
State] San Bern[ardino], ” sophomore guard 
Aleks Lipovic said. “So [the win] is huge. ”
Sophomore guard Jeff Van Dyke scored 16 
points in his best performance thus far as a 
Triton, and UCSD slowly built and maintained 
a lead against Cal State San Bernardino to hold 
on for the 74–52 victory. 
Lipovic finished with 11 points and three 
rebounds while Walker scored 13 points and 
grabbed three rebounds. Lipovic’s three-pointer 
late in the first half triggered a 13–2 run that 
gave the Tritons a 12-point halftime lead. 
In the second frame, UCSD made an 
impressive 60 percent of their shots and hit 
43 percent of their threes. The Triton bench 
contributed a solid 31 points, outscoring Cal 
State San Bernardino’s bench by 16.
Despite their brilliant offensive display, 
the Triton’s defense played a larger part in the 
victory. UCSD held the Coyotes to only 35 
percent from the field and 3–14 from beyond 
the arc. UCSD also outrebounded the Coyotes 
36–26. The Tritons were able to put the 
Coyotes away halfway through the second, with 
the lead climbing up as high as 24 points.
“It starts on the defensive end, ” UCSD head 
coach Eric Olen said. “Our ability to shoot the 
ball and make some threes, coupled with an 
improved defense gives us an ability to separate 
a team. ”
The Tritons had a promising start in their 
game against Humboldt State the following 
night, starting the game firing on all cylinders. 
In the first 10 minutes of the game, the Tritons 
shot 5–7 from three and were able to create a 
quick 12-point cushion. 
However, the Tritons  lost all momentum 
from that point on. UCSD was outscored 24–9 in the final nine minutes of the half and went 
into intermission trailing by three.
“We had a little bit of foul trouble, ” 
Olen said. “We kind of lost our energy and 
focus    for a little bit. They are a good team;  
they made a run and were able to take the 
momentum in the middle of the first and take 
that into halftime. ”
Humboldt was able to ride the momentum 
going into the second half and increased the 
lead to 14 with about four minutes left in the 
game. While everything seemed to go the 
Lumberjacks’ way, the Tritons could not seem 
to find an open shot and missed on all eight of 
their three-point attempts in the second half. 
After having a string of good shooting nights, 
Lipovic struggled to find the bottom of the net, 
missing all of his six attempts from the field.   
While Walker finished with 17 points, 12 
of those came in the first 10 minutes of the 
game. Van Dyke also scored eight early in the 
game but, however, remained scoreless for the 
remainder of the game. 
The Tritons have been stellar defensively 
during the six-game win streak, holding 
opponents to only 54 points per game during 
the stretch, but Humboldt State managed to 
score 83 against UCSD, a season worst score 
for the Tritons.
“We just didn’t get it done on the defensive 
end of the floor, ” Olen said. “We’ve had some 
success recently, and a lot of that been to due 
us being able to get some stops and we weren’t 
able to get that done tonight. ”
The six-game win streak tied the team’s 
longest since moving to NCAA Division-II 
back in 2000. Despite the recent hot surge, 
Saturday’s loss pushed the Tritons out of a four-
way tie for first in standings, putting them one 
game back from the top and into fourth place. 
“This is a marathon, ” said Olen. “There are 
10 more conference games. The team that is 
most consistent is the one that’s going to be 
there at the end. ”
The Tritons will host Cal State East Bay this 
Friday on Spirit Night at RIMAC Arena before 
playing Cal State Monterey Bay the following 
night. Both games will tip-off at 7:30 p.m. 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL
Tritons Lack Rhythm Over Weekend
UCSD suffered back-to-back losses to CSU San Bernardino and Humboldt State.
B Y  Marcus Thuillier
editorial assistantMEN'S VOLLEYBALL
Shut Out in Home Debut
Y oung Triton squad swept in pair of MPSF matches.
B Y  liam  leahy
staff writer             
PHOTO USED WITH PERMISSION FROM UCSD ATHLETICSreaders can contact
  daniel Sung     d2sung@ucsd.edu M. Volleyball
M. Basketball
W. Basketball
Swim/Dive
Baseball     1/28
     1/30
     1/30
     1/31
     2/01VS Princeton
VS Cal State East Bay
VS Cal State East Bay
VS University of San Diego
VS Western Oregon UPCOMING
UCSD
GAMES