VOLUME 49, ISSUE 14   MONDA Y , NOVEMBER 9, 2015  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
MEET COMET 
AND GORDON
Tour the San Diego 
Supercomputer Center with us 
and learn what it takes to run 
two Petaﬂops of computations, 
cool a room full of computers 
and run research in ﬁelds such 
as physics and economics.
SETTLED  OUT   OF   COURT
corrupt  corpora tions
closing  the  gapopinion,  P age   4
sport,  P age  12
MONDAY
H 66 L 55TUESDAY
H 64 L 48
WEDNESDAY
H 70 L 48THURSDAY
H 72 L 48
FORECAST
VERBATIM
BE GENEROUS WITH YOUR 
COUGH SYRUP , AND TAKE A 
SHOT OF IT LIKE YOU’RE A 
FRESHMAN AT YOUR FIRST 
FRAT PARTY , ABOUT TO DROP 
IT LIKE IT’S HOT. WAIT HALF 
AN HOUR FOR IT TO REALLY 
HIT YOU AND START GIGGLING 
AT YOUR TOES. IF YOU’RE 
GETTING LONELY, IT MIGHT...”
- Spread the Flu
HOW-TO GURU 
OPINION , PAGE 4
INSIDE
UC MERCED STABBING.....2
POLITICALLY CORRECT  ...4
UCSD SURF CULTURE  ......6
CLASSIFIEDS  ................ 10
SWIMMING  ................... 12“Fea tures,  P AGE  7
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE / GUARDIAN
UCSD, UC Berkeley and 
University of Washington will 
collaboratively lead the western 
sector of the National Science 
Foundation’s four Big Data Regional 
Innovation Hubs. NSF stated in 
its Nov. 2 announcement that the 
hubs together will form a “big data 
brain trust” that works to address 
problems across the region.
The priorities of the BD Hubs 
include developing technology for 
data-driven discovery and managing 
natural resources. This program, 
which NSF will grant a total of more 
than $5 million, will also focus on the fields of agriculture, education, 
medicine, energy, manufacturing 
and finance. 
The BD Hubs aims to train the 
next generation of data science experts 
while  serving as sites where scholars 
can put their research into practice. 
The West BD Hub’s Executive 
Director Meredith Lee described 
how the program will bring experts 
from different fields together to 
develop innovative solutions to 
society’s most pressing challenges.
“The Big Data Innovation Hubs 
seek to connect a diverse network of 
innovators who may not otherwise 
have an opportunity to work together 
— academics, industry experts, 
nonprofits, government at all levels, volunteers and data enthusiasts, ” Lee 
told the UCSD Guardian. “Building 
these coalitions with a focus on how 
we can address national priority 
challenges has an incredible potential 
for societal impact. ”
Lee also explained that, the 
Western United States’s unique 
history of innovation positions, 
the hub located on the west coast 
is expected to be a significant 
contributor to the project.
“The west has a track record 
for entrepreneurialism and 
clear strengths in technology 
development, ” Lee said. “We also 
are the home to vital metropolitan Library Hosts Informational 
Resource Fair for Students
Undergraduate and graduate students 
attended the second annual Geisel 
After Dark: Student Success and Safety 
Information Fair at the Seuss Room in Geisel 
Library last Wednesday. Coordinators of Geisel 
Library’s information fair aimed to increase 
student awareness of personal safety and available 
student support services such as Counseling and 
Psychological Services and Campus Police and 
Residential Security Officers.  
Director of the Learning Spaces program and 
event coordinator Kymberly Goodson told the 
UCSD Guardian the turnout this year can be 
attributed to the fair’s location. 
“[Geisel After Dark] was [previously] held at 
a different location that had two separate rooms, 
one for safety information and the other for 
academic related information, ” Goodson said. 
“But it’s all in one location this year, and it seems 
to have worked better. People seem to be visiting more tables this year. Last year we received about 
400 or so comment cards, and it certainly seems 
like we got that again this year. ”
Revelle College junior Alexa Azuara said that 
the fair introduced her to available services that 
she did not know existed, such as the walking 
machines.
“I didn’t expect how open and talkative the 
format of the fair would be, as I didn’t attend 
last year and only decided to check it out after 
seeing the coordinators walking around with a 
sign, ” Azuara told the Guardian. “I learned that 
you could check out 200 books at once, and [the 
library] implemented walking machines because 
of student comments last year. Maybe I’ll try out 
the walking machines the next time I study here. ”
Groups such as the Digital Library 
Development Program attended to encourage 
students to use digitized library materials and 
to provide data-management options for the   B Y  Ming-Ra y Liao   Contributing WriterOfficials Back 
Affirmative 
Action with 
Amicus BriefUC ADMINISTRATION
Napolitano and the Regents 
filed a statement in support 
of the University of Texas at 
Austin’s admissions process.
BY   S i m o n   Y u
Staff Writer
See AFFIRMATIVE , page 3The President and Chancellors of 
the University of California submitted 
an amicus curiae brief in favor of 
affirmative action to the United States 
Supreme Court in the case Fisher v. 
University of Texas at Austin on Nov. 2.
The brief supports the university 
by providing evidence from nearly 
two decades of the UC system’s 
difficulty in promoting diversity 
under the prohibition of race-
conscious admission.
“Over the more than 17 years 
since California’s constitutional 
ban on affirmative action went into 
effect, [the University of California] 
has experimented with a wide array 
of race-neutral initiatives aimed 
at promoting diversity, ” the brief 
said. “Overall, these efforts have 
not been effective alternatives to 
[the] UC [system]’s race-conscious 
admissions program. ” 
The ongoing case stems from 
Abigail Fisher’s undergraduate 
application for the University of 
Texas at Austin in 2008. She claims 
that the university’s use of race as part 
of the admissions process violated 
the Equal Protection Clause of the 
Fourteenth Amendment. This clause 
says that a state must treat each 
applicant in the same manner that 
it would treat individuals of similar 
“circumstances and condition”  by 
providing equal consideration 
without discriminating based on 
factors including race and gender.
An amicus curiae, “friend of the 
court, ” brief is often filed by a party 
that is not directly involved in the 
lawsuit with the intention of affecting 
the outcome. These briefs are generally 
used to provide key information, raise 
awareness about others who may be 
affected by the court’s decision or even 
draw attention from the media.
UC authorities argued three main 
points in the brief. First, the university 
argued that universities in general 
have a compelling, viable interest in 
pursuing qualitative diversity among 
the student body. This is diversity 
defined as “a student body that includes 
students of varying backgrounds 
across many characteristics, including 
but not limited to race. ” Second, the 
brief states the UC system’s wide 
variety of approaches over the years 
have demonstrated that maintaining 
historic, reflective levels of diversity 
using race-neutral methods is 
impossible. Finally, the university 
described how admission policies must 
consider how affirmative action affects 
critical constitutional and educational 
interests separate from racial diversity.
Despite the efforts made to expand 
racial diversity across the UC system, 
the brief detailed the UC system’s UCSD Will Co-Lead Data Innovation Center
The National Science Foundation established four regional hubs to perform research.See GEISEL , page 3
See  HUBS , page 2CAMPUSAROUND CAMPUS
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
BY   J a c ky  T o
Associa te N ews Edito r
Panelists from Buzzfeed Motion Pictures discussed Asian American media presence as part of the San Diego Asian Film 
Festival’s Digital Pioneer Series last Friday at UCSD Atkinson Hall. Photo by Hazel Luong /UCSD Guardian.
MEN'S  W A TER  POLO2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 9, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
A COUPLE OF DERPS By Elyse Yang
Returned Peace Corps Volunteer DuVale Riley will
discuss how you can make a difference overseas and  
return home with the experience and global perspective  
to stand out in a competitive job market.  Launch Your Career  
With the Peace Cor ps
Information Se ssion 
University of California - San Diego
Wednesday, November 11
6 to 7:45 p.m.
Career Services Center
Horizon Room  
 
855.855.1961 | www.peacecorps.govLife is calling. How far will you go?
DO YOU TWEET? WE DO!
@UCSDGua rdian
Registration for FALL Q UARTER
A.S. Safe Rides all ows registered 
unde rgradu ate stude nts to get
3 FREE rides per quar ter. Stude nts 
MUST register at lea st 24 hou rs 
prior to their ﬁ rst rid e.  A.S. SAFE RID ES
REGISTER ONLINE AT
AS.UCS D.ED U/SAFERIDES
@asucsd IS N OW O PEN!The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. Cassia is trying to exercise more. Money ’s on 
it not happening.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Marketing Director
Laura Chow
Associate Marketing Director
Peter McInnis
Training and Development Manager
Cedric Hyon
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Vincent Pham
Rosina Garcia
Tina Butoiu
Kriti Sarin
Jacky To
Cassia Pollock 
Marcus Thuillier
Allison Kubo
Kyle Somers
Karly Nisson
Brittney Lu
Olga Golubkova
Jonathan Gao
Megan Lee
Joselynn Ordaz
Sherman Aline
Elyse Yang
Christina Carlson
Jennifer GrundmanEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
 
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
Associate Features Editor
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Page Layout
 Allison Kubo, Quinn Pieper, Aleya Zenieris
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim, Lisa Chik, Alicia Ho
Editorial Assistants
Sage Schubert Christian, Katie Potts, Christian Duarte
A UC Merced freshman stabbed and injured three students and a 
construction worker on Wednesday before being fatally shot by local 
police officials. According to the Merced County sheriff, 18-year-old Faisal 
Mohammad executed the attack after being kicked out of a study group.
Officials said on Thursday that Mohammad had written a two-page-
long script containing extensive plans detailing how he would carry 
out the incident. Additionally, he was carrying suspicious items in his 
backpack, such as zip ties, petroleum jelly and duct tape.
“[Mohammad] talked about taking the students and handcuffing 
them...having them zip tie [their] own hands, ” Sheriff Vern Warnke told 
the press on Thursday. “His intention for the petroleum jelly was...to squirt 
[it] on the floor as a kind of Slip ‘n Slide, [creating] an entrance problem 
for anyone who got that far. ”
Warnke added that, according to the script, Mohammad intended to 
assault a police officer to obtain a gun and inflict life-threatening or fatal 
injuries upon his targets. The four victims of the attack were treated for 
non-life-threatening injuries following the incident. UC President Janet Napolitano issued a public statement with her 
condolences to those affected by Wednesday’s events.
“I am deeply saddened by the terrible tragedy on the University of 
California’s Merced campus, as are students, faculty and staff across 
the UC system, ” Napolitano said on Thursday. “We sympathize with 
the stabbing victims and their families, and are grateful that all four 
individuals who were injured are expected to recover. ”
Chairman of the UC Board of Regents Monica Lozano also expressed 
sympathy for the campus and pointed out that incidences like these lead to 
an increased sense of unity across the UC system.
“In the wake of the tragic events at UC Merced, we are heartened by 
the way people have come together across the UC community to support 
the victims and their families, ” Lozano said in the statement. “We, too, 
stand in support of the victims and their families. Gatherings such as the 
vigils this week provide the opportunity to express our compassion as a 
community, to offer gratitude to those who prevented further violence and 
to remind ourselves, collectively, of the power of our enduring resilience. ”Police Department Identify Suspect in UC Merced Stabbing, Find Two-Page Script Detailing Plan of  AttackIN BRIEF    WRITTEN BY
KRITI SARIN  //  NEWS EDITORareas, unique natural resources 
and hazards, and very exciting 
interdisciplinary data science 
projects.  Our hub is looking 
forward to building upon existing 
efforts and leveraging the unique 
talents of our region. ”
Furthermore, she explained that UCSD is the right institution to 
co-lead the western hub because of its 
reputation in the scientific community. 
“UCSD is a recognized leader in 
supercomputing, with expertise in 
data science education, research and 
tech transfer, ” Lee said. 
In the next phase of the BD Hubs 
project, the NSF expects to award 
$10 million to establish the Big Data Spokes program which will initiate 
research in areas that the BD Hubs 
identified as priorities. According to 
NSF’s press release, the BD Spokes 
will aim to address three main 
issues: “improving access to data, 
automating the data lifecycle and 
applying data science techniques to 
solve domain science problems or 
demonstrate societal impact. ”Leaders and researchers from 
each hub attended the BD Hubs’ first 
national stakeholders meeting from 
Nov. 3 to Nov. 5 to present their 
administration and sustainability 
models, discuss ideas for BD Spokes 
and plan out the program’s future. Next Phase of  Data Hub Project to Focus on Specialized Data Research and Application
▶ HUBS,  from page 1
Jacky  To  j6to@ucsd.edureaders can contact
@UCSDGUARDIANItching to Double Tap?
PHOTO BY JONATHAN GAO/ GUARDIAN
NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 9, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
campus researchers. 
The program’s director, Roger 
Smith, explained that the library is 
committed to preserving research 
content through their research-data 
curation system.
“We’re looking to expand the 
understanding of the library’s digital 
collections as a distinct resource 
and an access point for digitized 
primary sources, ” Smith told the 
Guardian. “Tonight, I got to talk 
to a lot of graduate students about 
data curation, and those students will become researchers pretty 
soon, so it’s important for them 
to understand the concept of a 
data-management plan and to have 
really good long-term preservation 
strategies for their research content. ”
CAPS promoted its programs 
for maintaining the mental health 
and  sustaining the well-being of 
students. The Campus Police and 
RSOs attended to increase awareness 
for the resources that they provide, 
such as safety escorts and rape 
aggression defense classes.
Revelle College senior Alex 
Zha described how he finds the late-night transportation which 
Community Service Officers offer 
to students especially useful.
“I was really surprised that 
they offer free rides from the 
[biomedical] library and to people 
who live off-campus — they’ll just 
drive you home. So that’s really nice 
and convenient, ” Zha said. “I liked 
how everyone seemed really excited 
to talk about whatever booth they 
were a part of. ”Evening Library Resources Include Safety Escorts, Transportation
Napolitano: Race-Blind Admissions Process Hinders Diversification▶ GEISEL,  from page 1
Ming-Ra y  LIao   m4liao@ucsd.edureaders can contactLooking for the 
New Business 
Column?
Now posted every Wednesday 
night, after the A.S. Council 
meeting, online.
ucsdguardian.orgSimon Yu siy007@ucsd.edureaders can contactunderwhelming representation of 
California’s diverse population.
“The undergraduate student 
populations at the University of 
California’s most selective campuses 
(UC Berkeley and UCLA) are 
markedly less racially diverse today 
than they were in the mid-1990s, ” the 
brief explained. “Enrollment of racial 
minorities systemwide continues to 
lag far behind California’s population 
even as [University of California] has 
expanded overall enrollment on many 
of its campuses. ”
Sixth College senior Thiba 
Thiagarajan told the UCSD 
Guardian that affirmative-action 
policy considerations may be 
beneficial for some individuals, but 
there are other factors that affect 
people adversely as well.“I think it’s mostly a good thing 
to pay attention to those who are 
likely to be somewhat disadvantaged, ” 
Thiagarajan said. “Personally, I haven’t 
been affected by my race, ethnicity, 
gender or class in positive or negative 
ways. I have been disqualified from 
certain things mainly for my citizenship 
status; being an American permanent 
resident but a non-American citizen, 
I understand why, especially when it 
comes to paying jobs. ”
Earl Warren College fifth-year 
Wendy Vasquez commented on how 
the lack of representation impacts 
student willingness to apply to 
higher education.
“Y es, I think affirmative action is 
necessary, because it gives hope to 
minorities to try for higher education, ” 
Vasquez said. “It gives a fighting 
chance. I hear many students who 
are discouraged from higher education because they can neither relate to 
others on campus, nor do they think 
that it is possible [to be admitted]. ”
UC President Janet Napolitano 
described how anti-affirmative 
action policies prevented the state 
from satisfying its state-specific 
educational needs.
“The University of California 
belongs to the people of California and 
race-blind admissions have curbed our 
ability to fully engage the learning 
potential found among this state’s 
diverse population, ” Napolitano said 
in a press release. “We are committed 
to serving California’s educational 
needs. Ensuring campuses can enable 
meaningful interactions among 
students of different backgrounds is 
key to this mission. ”▶ GEISEL,  from page 1
Follow us on Twitter 
@UCSDGUARDIAN4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 9, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
CASSIA  POLLOCK
How-To 
Guru: 
Spread the 
Flu Around
It’s the middle of flu season, and 
you’ve been living your life on the 
wild side. After biking through that 
sneeze cloud like it was nobody’s 
business, you hugged a friend right 
after they coughed and took an ill-
advised bite out of someone else’s 
carne asada burrito.
Your invincibility, my friend, 
has run out. Rise and shine, 
cupcake, you’ve got mucus lining 
your throat, a sinus that’s knocking 
on your brain like Sheldon Cooper 
and a fever. You now join the ranks 
of the infected, and much to your 
chagrin, the rigor of college life 
continues unabated.
Fear not, small grasshopper. 
This guide is here to help keep 
your spirits up and your bodily 
fluids inside, as you court death 
and midterms. Not all is lost, 
though. From anywhere on campus, 
overpriced medicine is just a five-
minute walk away. Soup’s served 
year-round, and by the taste of 
it, they switch it out every other 
quarter or so. Hydration stations are 
available everywhere, supplying you 
with bacterially infected algae water. 
Before you focus on getting better, 
go ahead and share your sweet 
germs with other students.  
Be generous with your cough 
syrup, and take a shot of it like 
you’re a freshman at your first frat 
party, about to drop it like it’s hot. 
Wait half an hour for it to really hit 
you and start giggling at your toes. 
If you’re getting lonely, it might be a 
good idea to parade around Library 
Walk holding a Free Hugs sign so 
that you can absorb the healing 
affection of other students, while 
they foolishly accept your sickly 
embrace.  But someone has to ask 
the real questions around here, 
and I hate to be a negative Nancy, 
but exactly how much schoolwork 
should you do when you’re sick? 
The only option is to hire somebody 
else to complete your assignments 
for you.
Y esterday’s work will soon be 
done, thanks to your generous 
roommate, and your inner 
procrastinator is working full time 
to keep you from contributing any 
input. Y our parents don’t want their 
precious baby doing any work at all, 
which suits you perfectly. Netflix is 
already loading the next episode. 
As you lie in bed, you softly ponder 
all the ways that you deserve to be 
molly-coddled.  
Well, being sick in college is just 
like any other experience: Y ou’ve 
been told to have balance, but your 
adolescent brain is going to dive off 
the deep end anyway. Rest is fine and 
all, but you can rest when you’re 80 
when the most action you can get is 
with your catheter. So go to that party. 
Share the love and spread your germs. 
It’s the least your friends and fellow 
students deserve.
If all this audacity is giving you 
a guilt trip, respond to a couple of 
emails so that you can lull yourself 
into a false sense of productivity. And 
when you’re done, a well-deserved 
nap awaits. So press send with 
aplomb, get tripped out on cough 
meds and find the silver lining in your 
mucus. As the virus will no doubt 
remind you, you only live once. We Need to T alk About Treating 
Marginalized Groups Thoughtfully
QUICK TAKESWHEN A.S. CONCERTS AND EVENTS ANNOUNCED THE FILM SCREENING OF“STRAIGHT OUTTA COMPTON” ON 
FACEBOOK, SOME STUDENTS WERE OFFENDED BY THE ABSENCE OF A DISCUSSION ON ITS RACIAL IMPLICATIONS.The rise of arbitration, meaning the use of a third-party arbitrator 
to settle disputes outside of court, is being co-opted by corporations to 
circumvent our constitutional right to a fair trial. Worse yet, it’s gaining 
popularity. In theory, arbitration does not undercut the right to a fair trial, 
as both parties involved must agree to it. The problem is that corporations, 
rather than seeking the consent of the opposing party at the time of 
the dispute, instead place arbitration clauses within their employee and 
consumer contracts.
What exactly do these arbitration clauses do? Well, aside from the 
worrying injustice of circumventing public courts, these clauses prevent 
class-action lawsuits —  in which a group of people can be represented 
in a single lawsuit — by specifying that those who sign the contract 
are agreeing to individual arbitration. Try to imagine the frightening 
situation of a single person having to fight against all the legal resources a 
corporation has available. Now put that person in an arbitration where 
the arbitrator is someone chosen by the corporation that the person 
is trying to sue. Apparently, the destruction of class-action lawsuits 
isn’t enough. Corporations feel the need to really stick it to the justice 
system by having the arbitrators be corporate lawyers who o ften see said 
corporations as clients. 
According to The New Y ork Times, such a depressing incident 
happened to Deborah L. Pierce, an emergency-room doctor, when she brought a sex-discrimination claim against a medical group. Her case 
was considered solid. However, this case was put under the scrutiny of a 
corporate lawyer who she saw having co ffee with the head of the medical 
group. Although Pierce suspected malpractice a fter the arbitrator ruled 
against her while using passages taken from the medical group’s lawyers, 
she was unable to appeal due to the nature of arbitration. 
At this point, many would point out that if somebody signs a contract, 
then that is a legitimate form of consent. A fter all, that’s what contracts 
are for. The problem with that is twofold. The first issue comes with 
the fact that you need corporations more than corporations need you. 
Corporations need employees and consumers, of course, but they don’t 
need speci fic ones, outside of a very few amount of cases. And if we’re being 
honest, nobody actually reads the entirety of their contracts. According to 
Voice of San Diego, this problem caused Jon Perz, who bought a car from 
Mossy Toyota in San Diego, to find out about the arbitration clause only 
after he tried to sue the seller. 
The second, and more pressing, issue is that these arbitration clauses 
are common enough that they are essentially impossible to avoid if you’re 
part of modern society. For instance, AT&T , T-mobile, Verizon and Sprint 
all have arbitration clauses, according to the Public Citizen organization. 
When the four largest providers of a service that everybody uses all have 
arbitration clauses, it becomes fairly di fficult to avoid such clauses. Other 
See ARBITRATION, page 5
Even if the A.S. Concert and Event planners 
decided to hold a public forum about the racially 
charged film screening of “Straight Outta 
Compton, ” it would be impossible to please 
everyone.  The discussion could potentially 
follow the nasty Facebook trend of inciting more 
anger toward each other as some students feel 
underrepresented in the discussion while others 
feel stifled by the need to be politically correct. It 
is important to consider how different minority 
groups feel when comedians make a mockery 
of their sub-cultures but, at the same time, 
encourage people to speak their minds.
According to The W ashington Post, 
President Obama recently said that, while he 
doesn’t agree with many of the offensive words 
and actions of others, he believes that college 
students must develop a thicker skin and argue 
with them instead of silencing them because 
we’re “too sensitive to hear what [they] have 
to say. ” Compromises must be made on both 
sides. We must be mindful of the language used 
to describe others, and on the other hand, we 
must differentiate between speech meant to hurt 
others and unintentional jokes not meant to 
cause pain. Individuals should have the freedom 
to do what it is they desire until it impedes on 
somebody else’s right to freedom.
Our world is filled with a multitude of 
personalities, and as human beings struggling 
through life, we must be mindful of the struggles 
of others. While you shouldn’t live in fear of 
causing offense, it is important to be mindful of 
the way your words and actions impact others 
with different backgrounds and life experiences.
                      — ALEXANDER CHEN  
               Contributing Writer
 It’s Impossible to be Politically 
Correct Enough to Please Everyone
It is ridiculous that today being politically 
correct has taken over our ability to communicate 
with one another and express our opinions. 
Seventy-one percent of Americans believe that 
political correctness is a problem, according 
to a recent Rasmussen Reports survey. With 
comedians like Jerry Seinfeld, satirical renditions 
of being politically correct on television shows 
like “South Park” and even President Obama 
weighing in, one has to wonder if we as a society 
have gone too far in being “PC enough. ”
The concept of being politically correct to 
the point of excess is no stranger to the UCSD 
community. Recently, A.S. Concerts and Events 
have come under fire by some students for 
their upcoming showing of the movie “Straight 
Outta Compton. ” 
Some students are angry that a mandatory 
speech after the screening to discuss the racial 
implications of the film has not been scheduled. 
Although it comes as no surprise to anyone 
on the UCSD campus that a dialogue on race 
relations desperately needs to be opened, should 
it really be done after an event that was created 
solely for entertainment?
The question is not whether being politically 
correct is right or wrong. We, as college students, 
are becoming politically correct to the point of 
ridiculousness. When student-sponsored events 
are attacked and criticized for not implementing 
mandatory educational talks in order to discuss 
the events of a film, there is a problem. College 
students must understand that not every word, 
joke or differing opinion is meant as a personal 
attack, and we must learn to pick our battles.
    
           — MEGAN MONGES  
                  Contributing WriterASCE Should Not Be Rebuked for 
Screening a Controversial Film
The heart of political correctness lies in 
the relationship of the media and issues of 
racism, sexism and similar discriminations. 
The lack of a discussion of the “Straight Outta 
Compton” film themes on racism struck 
controversy among students. Some students 
suggested that asking for such a discussion 
is, in a sense, too “politically correct. ” This 
further demonstrates that hatred for political 
correctness does not fall far from resistance 
toward discussing pervasive issues in 
American society, such as racism, even given a 
film screening about just that.
The major point of contention in political 
correctness regarding comedy is that “jokes are 
jokes. ” But as Roxane Gay explores in her book 
“Bad Feminist, ” jokes aren’t merely jokes when 
they casualize and fuel toxic issues such as 
rape culture, particularly when they normalize 
sexual assault as a typical occurrence by 
“normal guys” who merely made mistakes. 
Although the film screening doesn’t focus 
on sexual assault, this shows how the media 
can promote a culture of violence. Jokes 
normalize the idea that rape and racism are 
not problems serious enough to avoid laughing 
dismissively about.
Ultimately, we need this conversation to 
emphasize that political correctness is not an 
“agree to disagree” phenomenon but rather an 
ongoing dialogue dedicated to analyzing how 
our words represent underlying oppressions 
existing within American society — 
oppressions that, unlike jokes, cannot merely 
be ignored by various groups of people who 
lack such a privilege. 
                             — QUINN PIEPER  
               Contributing WriterILLUSTRA TION   B Y  EL Y SE  Y ANG
Taking  Over
lady jusTice  
Corporations use their power and influence
to unfairly settle disputes outside of  the courts.
B Y  Ahmad  Alja w ad  Contributing Writer
ILLUSTRA TION   B Y  CHRISTINA  CARLSONOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 9, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
TEDI Tritions for Equity Di versity and Inclusion
Consciousne ss of the world a round us is an i nvaluable skill for what ever 
career we pu rsue. The goals of TEDI a re to d evelop student s' critical 
consciousne ss of social justice and equi ty minded leade rship, and to build 
a net work of inclusi ve, equi ty minded s tudent leade rs on campus. The 
program consists of a retreat, with four foll ow-up p rograms, workshops, 
or events selected by the pa rticipant to supplement learning. TEDI is 
co-p resented by UCSD A ssociated Students and the Center for Student 
Involvement, and is open to all UCSD s tudents.
REGI STER N OW for TEDI,
go to http:/ /ccl.ucsd .edu/regist ration/
Question s? Email us at ucsdtedi@gmail .comSatu rday, November 14 • 9:30am-3:30pm
Governance Chambe rs, PC Eas t, level 4
WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
The Supreme Court Failed to Defend Individuals’ Rights Against Corporations
DID WE STRIKE
A NERVE?
SEND YOUR LETTERS TO 
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGcorporations that use arbitration 
clauses include, but are not limited to, 
TV service providers, banks, student 
loan providers, consumer electronics 
companies such as Sony and Dell, 
and entertainment providers such as 
Netflix. If you know a person who 
doesn’t use any of these services, 
you’ve met a hermit. 
This isn’t the first time our 
constitutional rights have been 
threatened, and fortunately for us, we 
have a system in place that will do its 
best to protect its people. A system of 
justice, of rational equity — and that 
system is called the Supreme Court. This is a system that has shot down 
countless past threats to the liberties 
we hold dear today. So when it came 
time to confront this sick subversion 
of citizens’ legal rights, the Supreme 
Court stated arbitration clauses are 
absolutely fine. 
If you’re hoping that this is an old, 
outdated Supreme Court decision, 
then boy, do I have good news for you. 
Find Law, an online legal business, 
reported that the decision of AT&T 
Mobility LLC v. Concepcion was 
ruled way back in 2011, and not only 
did it claim that arbitration was good 
to go, it also stated that arbitration 
superceded state laws and court 
rulings. In fact, the case was started due to the California Supreme Court 
ruling against arbitration in Discover 
Bank v. Superior Court.
Arbitration shows how 
corporations mock the complete lack 
of power individuals have against 
them, seeing as how it’s almost 
impossible to avoid arbitration. It’s 
even backed up by a Supreme Court 
ruling that goes so far as to say that 
state laws don’t matter. What can we 
do to prevent this quickening decay of 
our constitutional rights? Absolutely 
nothing e ffective. Until the Supreme 
Court overrules their previous 
decision, all we can do is complain 
while we watch our legal rights being 
torn apart.  ▶ ARBITRATION,  from page 4
6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 9, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
ALLISON  KUBO
features@ucsdguardian.org
by Kyle Somers  // Associate Features Editor              graphic by Sophia Huang 
and James Lommer // Contributing Writer                   photo by Alwin Szeto/UCSD Guardian
There is plenty of evidence that UCSD has a thriving sur fing culture. Considering 
the school has a surf team, an on-campus rental shop and is within walking 
distance of the renowned Black’s Beach, it’s not an outlandish claim to make. In 
fact, UCSD is commonly ranked by Surfer Magazine as one of the “best sur fing colleges” 
in the U.S. However, many will say the surf culture here is not as prominent as they 
anticipated — at least not on the surface. UCSD’s surf culture is comprised of a strong 
community of individuals who work to give students every opportunity to join and test the 
waters of the sport. 
One of the most important institutions for tenured or aspiring student surfers is 
Outback Adventures, a retail surf shop on Library W alk and a rental shop in Sixth College. 
Here, students will find everything from apparel and surf gear to a safe haven giving people 
a break from chaotic schoolwork. In an o ffice cluttered with sur fing posters, paperwork 
and sports gear, we sat down with Isaac Brandl, manager of the Outback surf and rental 
shops, to talk about sur fing in and around UCSD.
Brandl, who has been running the stores since they first opened in 2008, described 
having a poor experience his first time sur fing because his friend took him to a beach with 
large waves and then le ft him to figure out what to do.
“I ended up getting washed up on the beach in a pile of kelp, ” Brandl told the UCSD 
Guardian. “I told myself I was never going to surf again; it was the worst day of my life, and 
I didn’t get back on a board for eight years a fter that. ”
Clayton Claiborn, the Aquatics and Sur fing Director for UCSD Recreation, reiterated 
that one of the biggest mistakes beginners can make is going out on their own, adding that 
beginners o ften don’t know where to position themselves on the board.
“Before they even get in the water, the biggest mistake can be not taking a lesson and 
just going out on their own, ” Claiborn told the Guardian.  “ This can be dangerous to 
themselves and others; it’s hard for an untrained eye to gauge wave size and strength from 
the shore. Another mistake beginners make in the water is ‘pearling. ’ This is when the 
nose of the board goes under the water when you try to catch or drop in on a wave, which 
causes them to fall forward and wipeout. ”
Claiborn’s recreational classes teach students everything they’ll need to know 
to get out on the water and aims to give people a breather from studying that other 
schools don’t o ffer.
In fact, according to both Brandl and Claiborn, a person needs a lot of knowledge 
in order to be successful in sur fing. This includes the importance of learning on a foam 
longboard, as opposed to a fiberglass shortboard, which has less stability and buoyancy 
and a harder surface that is more likely to cause injury. They also both remarked that some 
beaches are better for learning, both in terms of what the surfers at those beaches expect 
from other surfers and from the power and height of the waves.
Claiborn in particular noted the sizeable di fference between sur fing at Black’s Beach 
and La Jolla Shores, with La Jolla Shores being a much-more-suitable beginner beach.
“The simple generalization is that La Jolla Shores has smaller and so fter waves 
better-suited to beginning surfers, while Black’s is a larger, more-powerful break better 
frequented by experienced surfers, ” Claiborn said.  “ The community of surfers at these 
breaks o ften mirrors the type of waves, so you have a generally mellow vibe at the 
Shores with families of surfers and riders on larger boards designed to catch smaller 
waves. In many ways the competitive vibe at Black’s can be attributed to a need for 
safety given the o ften dangerous conditions, and all surfers should be respectful there 
to maintain the safest environment possible. ”
Common knowledge among surfers re flects this, as La Jolla Shores is commonly listed 
among Southern California’s best learning beaches, while Black’s is sometimes considered 
to be one of the better breaks on the west-coast lists.
Claiborn’s contribution to the sur fing community at UCSD is apparent in his ability to 
teach new surfers, while the Outback shops that Brandl runs are more multifaceted and 
contribute to the surf culture in smaller ways.
Brandl described the purpose of the Outback Surf Shop as being a space for 
students who want to get into sur fing, in addition to being a store that sells sur fing 
gear and beach apparel.
“We’re not here to make a fat check or put a ton of money back into the store, ” Brandl 
said. “ As long as we’re covering our expenses and doing rad things for students, that’s our 
goal. It’s not just a retail operation; it’s a community space for students. Kids know they can 
come in and we’ll talk about the surf or watch movies, or [that] we’ve been holding events 
with other organizations. We try to use the store in more ways than just a place where UCSD has a concentrated but rich sur fing culture, brought out by the 
students, but also through institutions such as Outback Adventures and 
the UCSD Recreation sur fing classes.
See SURF , page 8Start off on a board longer than 8 feet;
preferably a foam board.
If the waves are too big, practice in the whitewater.
Look up surfing etiquette before you go so that you don’t 
cut someone off or run into someone.
Shuffle your feet so you don’t step on a stingray.
Don’t ditch your board parallel to the shore. Keep it 
pointed out toward the horizon or in toward the beach if 
you’re catching a wave.
Don’t ditch your board to dive under a wave.
If your nose is digging into the water, scoot back on the 
board or stand up sooner.
Make sure you’re a strong swimmer; don’t rely on your 
board as a flotation device.
Often the most dangerous things out there are the 
surfboards. Sharks aren’t a safety hazard here, getting hit 
with a surfboard is.
Don’t learn at Blacks. Learn at La Jolla Shores, especially 
north of the pier.
If at all possible, take classes or go with someone 
experienced. At the very least, Google it.
Have fun. Seriously . If you don’t enjoy yourself while wiping 
out and falling over, you’ll never want to go back out; 
learning to surf takes time and consistency.
By  Sophia Huang and Aleya ZenierisFEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 9, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
See SUPERCOMPUTER, page 8
The UCSD Guardian toured the San Diego Supercomputer Center in a 
one-on-one with the High Performance Systems Manager, Rick Wagner. 
Supercomputers, 
Raspber y   pis
and   Purple  PUppiesby Allison Kubo  // Features Editor
and Oliver Kelton // Contributing Writer
photos by Megan Lee/ UCSD GUARDIAN
Upon entering the San Diego 
Supercomputer Center, one is confronted 
by the rumbling, humming noise of 
hundreds of computer units cooled by 
hundreds of fans. At this moment, those 
computers are running more calculations 
than are possible to imagine, on projects 
in fields including cancer research, 
gravitational fields and comprehensive 
internet-use analysis. 
Rick Wagner, the High Performance 
Computing Systems Manager, explained to 
the UCSD Guardian how supercomputers 
use “parallel computing” to deliver more 
efficient results. 
“What we don’t want is a bunch of 
individual computers, ” Wagner told 
the Guardian. “But we can’t make 
one computer so massive that it can 
solve everything. So we make these 
supercomputers where... each machine can 
be working on its own piece of the puzzle 
but when it needs information somewhere 
else, it can quickly get it or put it on 
another machine. ”
Indeed, rather than one massive machine, 
the supercomputer consists of row upon row 
of individual computers all occupying a room the size of a high school gymnasium.
Using a set of small computers called 
Raspberry Pis, Wagner demonstrated the 
advantage of the parallel computing system. 
Though each individual unit is small, a 
computer composed of several connected 
Raspberry Pis is powerful enough to 
run sophisticated programs. The SDSC’s 
machines work the same way but handle 
amounts of data measured in petabytes, 
each equaling 1,000,000 gigabytes.
Before showing us the computers 
themselves, Wagner entered a security 
code, completed a biometric scan and 
led us into a room of diligent employees. 
This room, crucial for the maintenance 
and monitoring of the supercomputers, 
is sta ffed 24/7 and kept under constant 
video surveillance. The amount of security 
necessary for a research facility such as 
this cannot be overstated.
“We don’t want to restrict the data, 
so we don’t run firewalls — we don’t 
block ports but we do look and monitor 
the tra ffic, ” Wagner said. “ The reason 
we don’t put up any barriers is because 
having an open network is bene ficial to 
science applications. Cybersecurity is of interest to us because we have 3,000 nodes 
with public IP addresses. Each one is 
able to start a denial of service attack. In 
aggregate, they could do a serious attack 
on other systems. ”
Back in February 1995, T sutomu 
Shimomura, a senior fellow at the SDSC, and 
other cybersecurity experts tracked down 
Kevin Mitnick, one of the most notorious 
hackers of the ‘80s and ‘90s, a fter he hacked 
into the SDSC the previous December. The 
SDSC continuously monitors for unusual 
traffic on the computers, which could 
signal an unwanted intrusion. The security 
for both hardware and so ftware is top 
notch, and the Supercomputer Center 
itself has had a tremendous impact on the 
development of cybersecurity.
After passing the cameras and 
padlocks, one is hit by a burst of hot, dry 
air upon entering the computer room. The 
computers generate an enormous amount 
of heat, which the facility has to remove 
using a powerful system called a chilled 
water loop.
Opening a panel opposite the computer 
See SUPERCOMPUTER, page 88 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 9, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
AN EVENING WITH  DAVID SEDARIS
artpower .ucsd.edu  
858.534.TIXS (8497)With sardonic wit and a 
mastery of his craft—author, 
comedian, and humorist David 
Sedaris has become one of the 
most bitingly articulate and 
satirical writers of our time.
Sunday, November 22, at 7 pm
Balboa Theatre
Downtown San Diego  
Tickets: $40–55
artpower.ucsd.edu  | 858.534.TIXS (8497)program
haydn String Quartet No. 3 in G Minor
turina La oración del torero
beethoven  String Quartet No. 1 in F Major  
Friday, November 13  
7 pm Pre-performance ArtTalk at The Loft
8 pm Performance
Department of Music’s Conrad Prebys Concert Hall
Tickets: $36–54uarteto Quiroga C“. . . exquisite, precise, perfectly balanced, interpretively fresh . . .” —New York Times
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972people give us money. ”
As an example, Brandl said that 
Outback will be o ffering classes on 
surfboard designing and shaping 
which will be o ffered every Monday 
evening for a one-time fee of $100, 
a notable discount from almost any 
other board-shaping class.
Brandl’s years of experience 
and knowledge with skating and 
snowboard shops provided him 
with the skillset UCSD wanted 
when looking for someone to run 
Outback Adventures. 
“I knew how to run a mom and 
pop, I had a lot of board knowledge 
and knew the business side that 
goes into a retail store, ” Brandl said. 
“It was like the job description was 
made for me. ”Even though it seemed to be a 
perfect fit, the store was initially 
met with resistance. Muir Skate 
Shop, the campus’s long-time go-to 
spot for students, was closing down 
as Outback was opening. Despite 
neither store having anything to 
do with the other, there was a 
sense of animosity directed toward 
the newly-established surf shop. 
However, Brandl and the school 
pushed forward, and the shop still 
stands today, largely without the 
same skepticism.
“Muir Skate was closing at the 
same time that we were opening, and 
they had nothing to do with each 
other, ” Brandl said. “But all the sudden 
kids are like, ‘Boo, you’re such an 
asshole, ’ and I had just gotten there. I 
wasn’t trying to kick anyone out. The 
kids thought the administration was trying to kick out this independent 
business and put in their own surf 
shop, but it wasn’t like that at all. ”
Brandl feels that sur fing is o ften a 
healthy part of student life and that 
UCSD is in a unique position as both 
a strong institution for academics 
and sur fing.
“UCSD students are incredibly 
bright and o ften under intense 
academic pressure, ” Brandl said. “Surf 
classes give students the chance to 
get down to the beach for a healthy 
and educational study break. I 
certainly think the sur fing community 
at UCSD should be appreciated 
for its uniqueness, and students 
should appreciate the valuable wave 
resources we have here. ”
systems in the stark white wall, 
Wagner showed us the cooling system.
“Get a picture before the 
engineer finds me, ” Wagner said. 
“I’m screwing up the press ure 
differential right now. ”
Campus sends the SDSC cold 
water, which cools the hot air in a 
heat exchanger.  The cool air is then 
sent back into the facility to cool the 
computers. To keep the air flowing, 
different parts of the facility are kept 
at di fferent air pressures.
The SDSC is host to not one but 
several di fferent supercomputers, 
each with a unique focus and 
design. Gordon, for example, 
stores its data entirely using flash 
drives. This method of data storage 
gives Gordon an advantage in 
solving data-intensive science 
problems and was considered to be 
a groundbreaking concept when it 
was devised five years ago.  
The newest computer, Comet, 
was unveiled last April and is 
capable of carrying out two 
quadrillion instructions per second. 
Unlike Gordon, Comet focuses on 
performing calculations for small 
to medium-sized projects; thus, 
scientists can host many projects on 
its systems. Comet also aims to serve 
research areas that are normally 
discounted in high-performance 
computing such as economics, 
political science and genomics.
The Supercomputer Center 
was built through a partnership 
between UCSD, the National 
Science Foundation and General 
Atomics nearly 30 years ago. At the 
time, researchers were struggling to pay for needed computer time, 
which is when the NSF stepped 
in and invested in high-powered 
computing systems. The SDSC 
handles requests for computer time 
from scientists across the United 
States, involved in projects ranging 
from sociology to particle physics, 
using a program called Extreme 
Science and Engineering Discovery 
Environment or XSEDE. While 
businesses that wish to use the 
Supercomputer Center’s equipment 
simply need to pay for a given 
amount of time, researchers need 
to have their proposals approved 
by XSEDE which handles the 
allocation of computing space.
To most people, the research 
done at the Supercomputer Center 
is confusing, to say the least. Thus, 
the SDSC has created a program 
called Science Gateways, which 
helps researchers and less-computer-
savvy individuals analyze their data 
without needing to know how the 
computers themselves work.
“Suppose a scientist wants to 
analyze the di fference between 
green and purple puppies, ” Wagner 
said. “Gateways simpli fies the 
interface so the scientists can come 
in and ask their questions; they 
don’t need to know how the puppy 
sorting algorithm works on the big 
computers. Puppy sorting sounds 
cute, but phylogenetics and gene 
sequencing are big, complicated 
areas. ”
In addition, the SDSC is trying 
to encourage high schoolers to 
developing an interest in computers. 
In 2010, it launched Research 
Experience for High School 
Students, a volunteer/internship program that helps teenagers learn 
about computational research. This 
program introduces high schoolers 
to the basics of computing using the 
previously mentioned Raspberry Pis, 
where they can learn how to create 
simple programs and games such 
as Pong. Wagner himself has been 
heavily involved with the program 
after recognizing how it could 
bene fit members of the community 
outside of the university.
“I started working with high 
schools students through REHS, 
and it dawned on me that this 
was a platform for more than just 
working with undergraduates, ” he 
said. “ This last year, I really got 
active with the UC High Coding 
Club, which is near the university. 
Last year, the Computer Science 
Teacher’s Association in San Diego 
was directed to me, and we’re 
starting to build a platform for 
hosting a workshop to teach them 
how to teach students. ”
The SDSC is one of San Diego’s 
greatest assets and Wagner hopes 
that the next generation will inherit 
his enthusiasm.
“I want to retire, and if I don’t 
train the next generation, I don’t get 
to retire, ” Wagner said with a grin. 
“ As we learn something, we want 
students to do more than we did. 
That’s why we teach, I want you and 
students that are younger than you 
to know more than I did, so you can 
do more with it. If we can get this 
experience to younger and younger 
students, then they get to create more 
earlier and can innovate sooner. ”Outback Elaborates on its Turbulent Reception and Future Plans
kyle  So m ers   ksomers@ucsd.edu readers can contact
Allison    KUbo   akubo@ucsd.edu readers can contactSDSC Hopes to Get High School Students Excited About Computers
▶ SURF,  from page 6
▶ SUPERCOMPUTER,  from page 6CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 9, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
BITCHY BINGOMON, 11.09 • 8pm TahrirCAMPUS
CALENDAR
NOV 9 - NOV 152015 POWERED BY THE CHANCELLOR’S OFFICE AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guardian
Calenda r
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdg uardian.orgWED 11.11 TUE 11.10
HOLIDAY
11am
BODY COMPOSITION - THE ZONE
Walk in for your free analysis which includes: body 
weight, percentage body fat, total body water, and 
blood pressure. One free assessment per quarter is 
available to registered UCSD students.
SUN 11.15
8am
GARDEN HOURS - BEHIND LA JOLLA DANCE 
BUILDING AND CHE CAFE
Interested in growing your own food? Want to 
work toward a climate resilient future? Well come 
to RCG behind the CHE Cafe and the Dance 
Building in Revelle to learn about our agricultural 
system, integrated agriculture and much more!  
Open to any major or student. Plot rentals open to 
all who want to grow their own food. We are a 
Student Run garden that believes in sustainability. 
Join us every Saturday and/or Sunday rain or 
shine.FRI11.13
11:30pm
FLU SHOT CLINIC AT THE ZONE - THE ZONE
Cost of vaccine is FREE for students with SHIP . 
Costs for students without SHIP: Injectable: $15 
Contact: zone@ucsd.edu Website: 
http://thezone.ucsd.edu
12pm
INTERNATIONAL FRIDAY CAFE - 
INTERNATIONAL CENTER PATIO 
The Friday Cafe provides a venue where 
international and domestic students, scholars, 
faculty, staff and the local community can come 
together to celebrate cultural diversity and 
international education. Each week the Friday 
Cafe presents the opportunity to explore world 
cultures, cuisines, music and more. Join us for 
this unique international experience! Price: $5 per 
plate
8pm
ASCE PRESENTS: HULLABALOO - TOWN 
SQUARE & MATTHEWS QUAD
The biggest showcase of Asian cinema on the 
west coast is once again on the UCSD campus. 
For the the fourth straight year, the festival is 
showcasing the diversity and achievements of 
Taiwanese cinema with the Taiwan Film 
Showcase. Highlights of the festival's UCSD 
events include a panel on Asian Americans in 
digital media featuring BuzzFeed's Eugene Lee 
Yang, a documentary by UCSD alumnus Alvin 
Tsang, and mega Taiwanese box office hit The 
Wonderful Wedding with director Huang 
Chao-liang scheduled to attend10am
FITNESS ZONE: YOGA - THE ZONE
Yoga: This class will move from one asana 
(pose) to the next. Each class is a unique 
sequence of asanas. Classes take on a life of 
their own with the culmination of collective 
energy, movement and breath. Lead by FitLife 
instructor Jennie Olson Six and Nadine Lindseth.
4 & 7pm
FREE CHINA: THE COURAGE TO BELIEVE - 
PRICE CENTER THEATRE
This is the story of two individuals who were 
persecuted and enslaved in Chinaâ   s labor 
camps for their spiritual beliefs. Free China: The 
courage to Believe sheds light on current 
human rights atrocities occurring in China today 
including the persecution and organ harvesting 
of Falun Dafa meditators as well as other 
prisoners of conscience: Tibetan Buddhists, 
Christians and human rights activists. 
Representing the tens of millions of persecuted 
Falun Dafa meditators, who comprise 65% of all 
prisons, labor camps, and detention centers 
across China, Jennifer and Charles, give you a 
glimpse of the horror that occurs in the 
shadows of the Communist regime in China and 
how this affects us living on the West.
7pm
OUTREACH TRIVIA NIGHTS - MIDDLE OF 
MUIR (MOM)
FOOD, FACTS, FRIENDS, & FUN! Come to Middle 
of Muir "MOM" (Below Pines) to meet new 
people and test your knowledge of various trivia 
categories! Free entry to all UCSD students and 
prizes for winning team! Make this a weekly 
event and turn up the competition! Happy hour 
prices on food and drinks for trivia participants! 
All students are welcome! Come as a team or 
by yourself! Contact: sheld@ucsd.eduTHU 11.12
10am
MEDITATION - THE ZONE
Join us for a guided meditation where you can: 
-Gain greater mental clarity -Achieve a peaceful 
state of being -Learn techniques to de-stress 
-Achieve harmony amid cognitive dissonance 
Workshop led by: a UCSD Recreation Instructor
1:30pm
THERAPY FLUFFIES - THE ZONE
Come de-stress and play with certified therapy 
dogs at The Zone!
3pm
R&R QUAD - THE ZONE
Drop-in and get a low intensity back rub from the 
R&R Squad!
3pm
PASSPORT TO CULTURE: NIGERIA - 
INTERNATIONAL HOUSE-CUZCO LOUNGE
Earn your passport and "travel to Nigeria"! Learn 
about life and culture from current students who 
have lived and studied in various regions of the 
world. Enjoy a traditional taste of food from the 
highlighted region each week!  Week 6 "Passport to 
Culture" will highlight Singapore!
5:30pm
AN EVENING WITH EXPERTS FEATURING DON 
NORMAN - THE BASEMENT, MANDEVILLE 
CENTER B202
Don Norman is director of The Design Lab at UC 
San Diego, a multidisciplinary program bringing 
modern design methods to the world. He is 
co-founder of the Nielsen Norman Group, a former 
vice president of Apple, and professor at UC San 
Diego and Northwestern.  For more information on 
Don see designlab.ucsd.edu and read about him in 
the Triton Magazine.MON 11.09
12pm
UC UNDOCUMENTED LEGAL SERVICES: INFO 
SESSION - PC WEST, LEVEL 2, RED SHOE RM
The University of California Undocumented Legal 
Services serves the immigration-related legal needs of 
undocumented and immigrant students in the 
University of California system.To schedule an 
appointment to meet with an immigration attorney at 
UC San Diego on October 20th, 2015 or November 9th, 
2015 please email Elica Vafale, 
elica.ucimm@law.ucdavis.edu or Karina Rocha, 
krocha@ucdavis.edu (530)752-7996
5pm
AA CAMPUS MEETING - THE ZONE
Open AA Meeting held at the Zone every Monday from 
5:00 PM- 6:00 PM. Questions? Contact the Zone at 
zone@ucsd.edu
7pm
THE 2015 SAN DIEGO ASIAN FILM FESTIVAL 
COMES TO UC SAN DIEGO - CALIT2 ATKINSON 
AUDV
The biggest showcase of Asian cinema on the west 
coast is once again on the UCSD campus. For the the 
fourth straight year, the festival is showcasing the 
diversity and achievements of Taiwanese cinema with 
the Taiwan Film Showcase. Highlights of the festival's 
UCSD events include a panel on Asian Americans in 
digital media featuring BuzzFeed's Eugene Lee Yang, a 
documentary by UCSD alumnus Alvin Tsang, and mega 
Taiwanese box office hit The Wonderful Wedding with 
director Huang Chao-liang scheduled to attendSAT 11.14
2 DAY TRIP
ANZA BORREGO CANYONS, CAVES, AND 
HOTSPRINGS - OUTBACK ADVENTURES
Join us on this popular overnight trip. By day we 
will explore mud caves, palm oases, wildflowers, 
vistas and Native American Pictographs. By night, 
we indulge in delicious food from a Dutch oven, 
soak in the hot springs, and take in the amazing 
star display far from the contamination of city 
lights. We will spend Saturday exploring the corners 
of Arroyo Tapiado Caves with our headlamps. 
Sunday will find us picking our way through the 
desert canyons in search of one of the many oases 
or desert vistas. No Anza-Borrego trip is complete 
without a stop for famous Julian pie on the way 
home.
10am
GARDEN HOURS - BEHIND LA JOLLA DANCE 
BUILDING AND CHE CAFE
Interested in growing your own food? Want to work 
toward a climate resilient future? Well come to RCG 
behind the CHE Cafe and the Dance Building in 
Revelle to learn about our agricultural system, 
integrated agriculture and much more! Open to any 
major or student. Plot rentals open to all who want 
to grow their own food. We are a Student Run 
garden that believes in sustainability. Join us every 
Saturday and/or Sunday rain or shine.
10am
INTERNATIONAL CORONADO ISLAND KAYAK - 
OUTBACK ADVENTURES
Join your friends for a day paddle on the big bay. It 
is sure to be a blast. After a quick drive to the bay 
we will have a short skills session. We will launch 
at Glorietta Bay and paddle next to Coronado Island, 
under the bridge and by the moored sailboats. We 
will have a great view of downtown San Diego from 
the water. This trip is for international and domestic 
students who are interested in making friends with 
people from all over the world.
10am
RADY SCHOOL PREVIEW DAY - RADY SCHOOL 
OF MANAGEMENT
Rady Preview Day on campus to meet, network, 
attend mock class, and discuss programs with 
prospects, students, faculty and staff.THE LOFT, PRICE CENTER
10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 9, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDS$
Gua rdian Classi fieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedscrossword
Across
1 Devious, in a way
4 Bad states
9 You often see a lap in one
14 Bullet in a deck
15 Strange
16 Kind of trader
17 Royal sleep disturbance, in a tale
18 Break from soldiers’ training?
20 Ill-advised
22 Flames’ org.
23 Gives the slip
24 Clown settlement?
27 Old waste allowance
28 Resemble strongly
33 ID necessity, often
36 Plow into
37 Like Chinese dishes, frequently
38 International affair?
42 It may be gross in med sch.
43 OPEC member
44 Development units
45 Picks
47 Monopoly card
49 O. Henry stories?
54 Pizza chain
58 Like Bizet’s only symphony
59 Night light
60 Copperfield’s limo?
63 Short sentence about a long term
64 Center of Cleveland?
65 Some plots
66 “I reckon not”
67 Noodleheads
68 “Siddhartha” author
69 It’s up to youDown
1 “Mr. Smith Goes to Washington” director
2 Shore thing
3 Dough-raising need
4 __ story
5 Fine point
6 August comment
7 Warbling sound
8 IPO overseer
9 Malibu and Tahoe
10 Guadalajara greeting
11 Ideal for Joshua trees
12 “Now that makes sense”
13 Trio in an NBA game
19 Entitle, as an altered file
21 Ancient Indo-European
25 Swift reptile
26 Vividly colored fish
29 Used as an elevator
30 Blob’s lack
31 Rubberneck
32 Eye cells
33 NEA supporters
34 Fine-tune
35 Fall birthstone
36 Itinerary abbr.
39 Have a better crew than
40 Burkina __
41 See 6-Down
46 Group with common interests
47 Some booth occupants
48 Proverbs follower: Abbr.
50 Heiress, perhaps
51 Equestrian tools
52 Maker of Advantix cameras
53 Blizzardlike
54 Urban hazard
55 Proverbial thorn
56 “A Death in the Family” novelist
57 England’s Portsmouth Harbour and 
others
61 “As if!”
62 Mariner’s hdg.AUTO
1926 Ford Two-Door Sedan - $28000. 
TCI type chassis. Two-inch drop front 
end, disc brakes front, Chev 327 
engine, Chev 350 trans, Ford Maverick 
rear end, drum rear brakes. All steel 
with fiberglass front fenders. Listing ID: 
203892567 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
15” Str wheel and tires for sale - 
$1100. Str 15x8 15 offset wheels with 
195/50/15 Accelera tires in all colors 
for all old-school Datsun, Toyota, BMW 
and Mazda 4-lug cars with the hard 
to find offsets. We have them in stock 
and ready to be installed with mount -
ing and balancing available. Listing ID: 
203891505 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
2011 Mini Cooper 2D Hatchback - 
Leatherette upholstery, AM/FM/CD 
with 6 speakers, 4-wheel disc brakes, air 
conditioning, electronic stability con -
trol, front bucket seats, spoiler, tachom -
eter, ABS brakes, AM/FM radio, alloy 
wheels, brake assist, bumpers: body-
color, CD player, delay-off headlights, 
driver door bin, driver vanity mirror. 
Listing ID: 202927937 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
ELECTRONICS
LG Bluetooth headset - $35. Works 
great. I love them actually but I’m get -
ting something better. Looking for 
$35. Trade is welcome also. Listing ID: 
204176688 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
Wii family edition - $60. Working Wii 
that I don’t use anymore. Comes with 
games and remotes. Price is negotiable. 
Listing ID: 204176683 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
Call of Duty Advanced Warfare PS4 - 
$20. Nothing wrong, just didn’t play it. 
Listing ID: 204176680 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
FURNITURE
Green chair - $15. Fairly new. Listing ID: 
202932057 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
Solid Wood Kitchen Table - $100. Wood 
kitchen table at a good price because 
we are relocating. Listing ID: 204176699 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
Gray Couch - $120. Nice gray couch 
with four throw pillows. Less than a year 
old. In like-new condition. Listing ID: 
204176690at ucsdguardian.org/classi -
fieds for more information
tyour vision,
our mission.
The Associated Students Store Contact outfitters@ucsd.edu for more info.Create custom apparel to promote your
student organization with Triton Outfitter's
new Made TO Order  program!
MORE INFO AT SOVAC.UCSD.EDU/REGISTER
www.ucsdguardian.org/advertisingTu r n  You r  ACTIONS
into Words
Advertise your event, your product!
Advertise yourself withSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 9, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
NOVEMBER 19TH
11AM-3PM
LIBRARY WALKFor more information contact  avpenvironmental@ucsd.eduTHRIFTY
THURSDAYPOP UP THRIFT STORE AND FLEA MARKET
VISIT 
fb.com/asenvironmentaljustice/
for more infoSTUDENT 
VENDORS 
WANTED!scored with 2:17 left in the match, 
and that proved to be the game-
winning shot as the UC Davis 
defense stifled the Tritons on their 
possession.
Mancuso had his fifth hat trick of 
the season as he led the Tritons with 
three goals. Ellinthorpe finished 
with two goals of his own, and 
redshirt freshman goalkeeper Jack 
Turner had nine saves.
Game Two
UCSB started the game with a 
quick 3–1 lead. UCSD answered 
with senior utility Chase Cockerill’s 
penalty shot. The Gauchos scored 
again to add to their lead, but 
Alexander assisted Cockerill for his 
second goal of the period and the 
Tritons trailed by only one after the 
first period.
Mancuso scored in the second 
period after UCSB had taken a two-
goal advantage. The Gauchos scored 
twice to make it a 7–4 advantage. 
However, UCSD finished the period 
strong with two goals to go into 
halftime down only one.
The Tritons got on the scoreboard 
early in the third period as 
Alexander and Hmeidan scored to 
give UCSD its first lead of the game, 
8–7. That lead was short-lived, as 
UCSB answered with three straight 
goals to take a 10–8 lead. Cockerill 
continued his brilliant match with 
two more goals before the end of the 
period to tie the game.
The two teams had two goals 
apiece in the final period, as the 
game headed to overtime knotted at 
12–12.
UCSB took a two-goal lead 
to start off the overtime period. 
Hmeidan answered with 15 seconds left in the first overtime period to 
give himself a hat trick for the game.
The Gauchos added two more 
goals in the second overtime period 
to add to their lead. Senior two-
meter Tiki Toplack scored with 29 
seconds left, but the deficit proved 
to be too much as the Tritons fell 
16–14.
“We played a lot better water 
polo against a solid sixth-ranked 
team in the nation, “ UCSD Head 
Coach Denny Harper told the 
UCSD Athletics Department. “I am 
pleased with the progress. ”
Cockerill led the Tritons with 
five goals, with Hmeidan scoring 
three and Mancuso two. Freshman 
goalkeeper Sam Thompson had 
his first start of the season and 
performed well with eight saves.
“I loved the effort, ” Cockerill told 
the UCSD Athletics Department. 
“We are really stoked for our 
freshman goalie. We are a young 
team, and we have freshmen 
stepping up. ”
Senior attacker Derek Shoemaker 
had four goals and was the leading 
scorer for the Gauchos. Senior two-
meter Liam Gaughan and junior 
utility Reed Cotterill had three each. 
Senior goalkeeper Chris Whitelegge 
added 10 saves. 
The Tritons have a week off  
before two exhibitions against 
Sunset San Diego and Olympic Club 
on Saturday, Nov. 14 at 10 a.m. and 
12 p.m., respectively. A week after 
that, UCSD will head to Colorado 
for the WWPA Championship, 
hosted by the Air Force, Friday to 
Sunday on Nov. 20 to Nov. 22. Two More Matchups Before WWPAs
▶ M. WATER POLO,  from page 12
readers can contact
 dev  jain   dajain@ucsd.edu CROSS  COUNTR Y
The UCSD men and women’s 
cross country teams concluded 
their seasons this past Saturday at 
the NCAA West Regionals hosted 
by Western Oregon University in 
Monmouth, Oregon. To qualify for 
the NCAA Championship in Joplin, 
Missouri at the end of the month, the 
Tritons needed to place within the top 
five for the women and the top four 
for the men. The women finished in 
seventh and the men in 13th. 
The women ran first, with senior 
Paige Hughes leading the Tritons in the 
6K run. She finished in 21st place with 
a time of 21:49.72. Her excellent finish 
earned her a third-straight All-West 
Region honor, a recognition given to 
the top-25 athletes. 
“Paige put herself right in the mix, ” 
UCSD Head Coach Nate Garcia told 
the UCSD Athletics Department. “We 
are happy to see her collect another all-
region honor. ”
The next three Triton finishers 
ran a pack race, finishing within four 
seconds of each other. Senior Corinne 
Hinkle crossed the finish line in 
22:16.04, freshman Karina Castens 
in 22:16.67 and senior Maria Diaz in 
22:19.20. They were 44th, 46th and 
48th, respectively. The final scorer, 
sophomore Skylar Thiel, was not far 
behind the pack, finishing in 22:40.28, 
good for 68th place. 
The Triton women earned 223 
points, putting them in seventh 
place, just two places and 16 points 
shy of qualifying for the NCAA 
Championships. California Collegiate Athletic Association rival Chico State 
won the meet with 89 points and 
three runners earning All-Region 
honors. Rounding out the NCAA 
Championship qualifiers were 
Western W ashington University (165), 
University of Alaska-Anchorage (201), 
California Baptist University (203) and 
Seattle Pacific University (207). Alaska-
Anchorage had the top-two finishers 
in the race, with junior Joyce Chelimo 
winning in 20:42.34 and her teammate 
sophomore Caroline Kurgat finishing 
in 20:59.57. 
“The result wasn’t what we had 
hoped for on the women’s side, but in a 
region as deep as ours, being a little off 
costs you, ” Garcia said.
For the UCSD men, senior Daniel 
Franz led his teammates, finishing the 
10K race in 31:26.00, good for 45th 
place. Unlike the women, the men did 
not run in a pack, with the next four 
scorers coming in within over a minute 
of each other. Sophomore Garrett 
Lepine finished in 31:39.27 (58th), 
junior Terrence Luevano in 32:01.05 (69th), sophomore Aren Johnson in 
32:01.13 (70th) and freshman Garrett 
Boulais rounding out the five scorers in 
32:18.82 (84th). 
UCSD finished in 13th place with 
320 points. Alaska-Anchorage won the 
meet with 55 points, placing six of its 
athletes in the top 25 and edging out 
Chico State — who won the last 10 of 
12 NCAA West Regionals titles — 55 
to 79. Cal Poly Pomona finished in 
third (81) and Simon Fraser University 
in fourth (107). Sophomore Henry 
Cheseto and senior Dominik Notz 
from Alaska-Anchorage took the one 
and two spots, finishing in 29:29.82 
and 29:32.63, respectively. 
“The men put together a solid 
race, and we were pleased with how 
they competed, ” Garcia said. “We had 
a lot of young guys get some really 
good experience, and they handled 
themselves well in their first 10K. ”BY   r o s i n a   g a r c i a
Managing EditorSeason Ends at NCAA West Regionals
Women finish seventh, men place 13th and miss out on the NCAA Championships.
readers can contact
 Rosina  Garcia   rmg008@ucsd.edu 
PHOTO USED WITH PERMISSION FROM UCSD ATHLETICS DEPARTMENTSPORTS12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 9, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
CONTACT THE EDITOR
MARCUS THUILLIER
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
bi-weekl y
summar y
The men’s cross country 
team finished 13th at the 
NCAA West Regionals 
in Monmouth, Oregon.
The women’s cross country 
team finished seventh at the 
NCAA West Regionals in 
Monmouth, Oregon.13
7
UCSD
UCSB
MEN'S
W A TER  POLOMEN'S
SWI M M I N G
UCSDUCSD
UC Davis7 - 8
14 - 16W. Soccer
M. Basketball
W. Volleyball
M. Water Polo
W. Basketball  11/12
  11/13
  11/13
  11/14
  11/14AT NCAA Championships
AT UC Irvine
AT CSU Dominguez Hills
VS Sunset San Diego
VS CSU San MarcosUPCOMING
UCSD
GAMES
MEN'S  W A TER  POLO
The UCSD men’s water polo team suffered two tough losses this 
week to UC Davis and UC Santa Barbara. The No. 16 Tritons lost 8–7 
to No. 10 UC Davis on Thursday as junior driver Nick Alexander’s 
game-tying shot was saved by the UC Davis goalkeeper in the final 
seconds. On Saturday, the Tritons fell to No. 6 UCSB 16–14 in a close 
overtime match. UCSD gave up four goals in the extra period and 
couldn’t gather enough offense to win the game. With the two losses, 
the Tritons’ record is now 11–13 overall. Both matchups were played 
at Canyonview Pool.
Game One
 Sophomore goalkeeper Spencer Creed saved the last-second shot 
by Alexander as UC Davis pulled out a slim victory on Thursday. UC 
Davis improved its record to 16–7 and remains undefeated 5–0 in 
Western Water Polo Association play.UC Davis scored first as senior two-meter Wes Lincoln buried 
a shot in a six-on-five power-play goal. The Tritons responded with 
another power-play goal, as well as Alexander teaming up with redshirt 
freshman driver Cole Martinez for the goal. UC Davis added on two 
more scores in the opening quarter to maintain a two-goal lead.
In the second quarter, the Tritons responded as senior two-meter 
Tyler Mancuso scored twice in the early minutes. Junior utility Jack 
Ellinthorpe added another goal to give UCSD its first lead of the 
game. UC Davis answered with two goals to take back the lead, but 
Ellinthorpe found the back of the net with 36 seconds left in the period 
as the two teams went into halftime tied 5–5.
As great as the two offenses were for the first half, both struggled to 
score in the third period. Each team only had one goal in the period 
as junior utility Nassim Hmeidan gave UCSD the lead, but freshman 
utility Sasa Antunovic scored with 42 seconds left to tie the game at six.
Antunovic scored again to start off the fourth and final period. 
Mancuso answered on the next possession with his third goal of the 
match and tied the game for the sixth time. Senior utility Sean Grab BY  D e v  J a i n
Staff Writer
After opening its season with a 
win over Claremont-Mudd-Scripps at 
Canyonview Pool, UCSD swimming 
was on the road at Division-I opponent 
UC Santa Barbara’s Campus Pool this 
past Saturday. The Triton dive team 
stayed home as the Gauchos do not 
sponsor diving as an event. The swim 
team women lost 139–115 and are now 
1–1 as UCSB improved to 3–1. On the 
men’s side, the Gauchos picked up their 
first win of the season (1–2) and beat 
UCSD (1–1) by 142.5–111.5.
Fourteen swimming events were 
disputed during the day. UCSD won 
four of them on the women’s side and 
only two on the men’s side.
For the women, sophomore 
Julia Toronczak had an impressive 
day against some stout Division-I opposition. She won the 200-yard 
backstroke in 2:01.46, the second-best 
performance of the season on this 
distance in the NCAA Division II. 
She had a four-second advantage on 
second-finisher junior Julia Mikota 
from UCSB. Mikota won the 100 back 
ahead of Toronczak who still managed 
to finish the race in 57.43, the seventh-
best time in Division II.
Other top performers for the 
Triton women were fifth-year senior 
Dari W atkins, sophomore Jayna 
Wittenbrink and sophomore Stephanie 
Sin. W atkins won the 200 butterfly in 
2:05.22, and Wittenbrink won the 100 
fly in 57.35. Sin continued to perform 
well after the promise shown in her 
freshman season, winning the 1,000 
free in 10:21.16 and finishing second 
in the 500 free in 5:00.55. Senior co-
captain Colleen Daley finished second 
in the 50 free in 23.89, one of five NCAA provisional qualifying marks 
the Triton women hit. The four others 
came from Toronczak in the 200 back, 
Sin in the 500 and 1,000 free, and 
Watkins in the 200 fly.
The men did not hit any provisional 
marks but won two events. Senior AJ 
Zavala won the 100 breast in 58.07, and 
junior Zachary Y ong emerged on top 
in the 200 breaststroke in 2:03.60, good 
for the ninth-fastest time in Division 
II. The six Tritons who won events on 
Saturday were also winners on their 
opening day.
UCSD gets a two-week hiatus 
before heading to East Los Angeles 
College in Monterey Park, Nov. 19 
through the 21st, for one of their 
biggest fall-season meets, the A3 
Performance Invitational. UCSD will 
serve as the off-site host.SWI M
UCSD Loses Dual Meets At UC Santa Barbara’s Campus Pool
Against tough Division-I opposition, the Tritons snag four victories in 14 events for the women and two wins in 14 events for the men.
BY  M a r c u s  t h u i l l i e r
Sports Editor
readers can contact
marcus thuillier   mthuilli@ucsd.edu See M. WATER POLO, page 11
UCSB111.5 - 142.5
UCSD
UCSBWOMEN'S
SWI M M I N G
115 - 136
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE/ GUARDIANPHOTO BY MEGAN LEE/ GUARDIANUCSD loses two tight 
matches to UC Davis and 
UC Santa Barbara.Tritons Cannot 
Pull Off the 
Upsets