VOLUME 48, ISSUE 26  THURSDAY , JANUARY 22, 2015 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
WESTLY 
SNIPES
Former “Sexiest Man Alive” 
Bradley Cooper stars in the 
latest film from director 
Clint Eastwood about the 
life, torment and exploits of 
an American sniper fighting 
overseas.
ENERGY  BOOST
TRITONS T AKE  A TUMBLEUCSD  to  go  carbon  neutral
Volleyball  struggles   continueOPINION,  P age   4
SPORTS,  P age  12
THURSDAY
H 75 L 46FRIDAY
H 72 L 45
SATURDAY
H 75 L 50SUNDAY
H 75 L 52
FORECAST
VERBATIM
INSIDE
AVERAGE CAT  ................. 2
MEDICAL CENTER WOES  .3
CAT CAFE  ........................ 8
SUDOKU  ....................... 10
FENCING  ....................... 12Weekend,  P AGE  9
PHOTO BY BREITBART, USED WITH PERMISSIONUC SYSTEM
Sleeping Drug Found To 
Reverse Autism In Mice
Last week, UCSD researchers, led by Dr. Robert K. 
Naviaux, professor of genetics at the UCSD School 
of Medicine, published a study that made major 
advances toward a cure for autism spectrum disorders. 
Using suramin, an antimicrobial drug first developed 
to treat sleeping sickness in 1916, Dr. Naviaux’s group 
observed substantial improvements in reversing ASD 
symptoms amongst mice.
Fragile X-genetics mice, which are commonly used 
to study autism, were administered a weekly injection 
of either suramin or a saline placebo. After one month, 
researchers found normal social behavior to be restored in 
the suramin-treated mice, as well as improved metabolism 
responses in their cells and brain synaptosomal structures.
This study, considered a test of genetic ASD-causing 
factors by Naviaux, follows in the wake of another study 
the group published in June of last year, which used 
maternal immune activation mice to study the environ -
mental factors that lead to ASD. In both cases, mice who 
had developed an autism-like disorder shortly after birth 
were examined. A remarkable discovery was made in the 
6-month-old mice — equivalent in age to a human adult of 
30 years — showed clear signs of reverting back to normal 
social behavior within minutes of receiving a single dose of suramin treatment.
Naviaux told the UCSD Guardian that he was led to the 
idea of using suramin to treat autism after first discovering 
an overabundance of extracellular ATP to be one of the 
leading causes of the disorder. Cells naturally generate ATP 
as a vital source of internal energy, but when this chemi -
cal is expressed outside the barrier of the cell, it can bind 
to certain neural receptors and cause inflammations that 
block regular early development. Suramin, because of its 
molecular structure, can compete with extracellular ATP 
for a place to bind to the neural receptors, thus eliminating 
any possibility for damage.
Because no one else had ever looked at suramin as a 
possible solution to autism, Naviaux said he had to develop 
new concepts.
“I surveyed the world’s pharmacopoeia, ” Naviaux said. 
“I looked specifically for drugs that would inhibit extracel -
lular ATP function, and there were none available except 
suramin. That was the only one, and even then [suramin] 
had never been used before in this way. ”
Naviaux discovered that the underlying threat of ASD 
is be one of the body’s naturally-occurring defense mecha -
nisms, which he named cell danger response, or CDR. 
When cells sense incoming stress — either from envi -  B y  Teiko  Y akobson    Features Editor 
Nanoengineers at the UCSD 
Jacobs School of Engineering recently 
published a study describing a new, 
noninvasive method of monitoring 
glucose levels for patients living 
with Type 1 diabetes. The study was 
published in the journal Analytical 
Chemistry on Dec. 12 and Jacobs 
School of Engineering announced its 
success with test subjects on Jan. 14.
The team of researchers was part of 
a nanobioelectronics laboratory at the Jacobs School led by Professor Joseph 
Wang, who is the Science Applications 
International Corporation-endowed 
department chair of nanoengineering 
as well as the director of the Center for 
Wearable Sensors.
Patients with diabetes typically have 
to poke a small hole in their fingers 
and withdraw a few drops of blood 
several times a day in order to measure 
if their glucose levels are too high. 
Graduate student Amay Bandodkar, 
one of the principal engineers, told the 
UCSD Guardian that his colleagues 
wanted to develop a device that avoids 
puncturing the skin entirely. “Millions of people all over the 
globe suffer from diabetes and many 
of these [people] have to test their 
blood sugar levels several times a day. 
This is very inconvenient and painful, ” 
Bandodkar said. “This motivated us to 
develop a simple rub-on, tattoo-based 
sensor that can measure blood glucose 
levels without the need for the painful 
blood sampling. ”
Instead of the traditional method 
of continuous finger-pricking for 
blood samples, the team of researchers 
developed an epidermal tattoo-based UCSD 
Ranked Sixth 
For Income
Potential CALIFORNIA
PayScale.com rankings 
examined the possible 
earnings of alumni who only 
received a bachelor’s degree.
B Y  BR YNNA BOL T
Staff Writer
See  EARNINGS , page 3PayScale.com ranked UCSD as 
the sixth best four-year university in 
California and the 11th best public, 
four-year university in the U.S. 
based on salary potential for alumni 
who only received a bachelor’s 
degree. The rankings were released 
on Sept. 10, 2014 by the company’s 
headquarters in Seattle.
The data collected on UCSD for 
the rankings and featured on the 
site includes an average early-career 
salary, with five years or less of 
experience in their field, of $50,600 
and an average mid-career salary, 
with at least 10 years of experience 
in their field, of $102,100. The 
site also records a high percent 
meaning — a percentage of people 
who answer “yes” or “very much 
so” to the question of whether or 
not their job “makes the world a 
better place” — of 52 percent and 
for science, technology, engineering 
and mathematics degrees  38 percent 
for UCSD. 
Chancellor Pradeep K. Khosla 
made a recent statement on the 
ranking of the university and the 
potential career opportunities 
offered to UCSD. 
“UC San Diego provides an 
academic experience that helps 
graduates prepare for successful 
careers and be engaged citizens of 
the 21st-century, ” Khosla said in a 
UCSD press release on Jan. 14. “ A 
UC San Diego education enables 
social mobility and enhances the 
lives of thousands of students and 
families. ”
PayScale.com is a website 
that provides immediate data 
to employers and employees on 
current market salaries. According 
to its site, PayScale.com is the 
largest database of individual 
compensation information in the 
world and contains more than 40 
million salary profiles.  
The data collected is based 
on a survey provided by the site, 
which includes questions about the 
specifics of the survey-taker’s job, 
focusing on the compensable factors 
that PayScale determines to affect 
salary. The survey can be found on 
the site and is available for anyone to 
participate in. 
After the data is collected through 
the survey, PayScale verifies the 
information using a data-cleaning 
algorithm — a procedure used to 
solve a mathematical or computer 
process — of their creation. They 
then take this data and run it 
through another algorithm, the 
MarketMatch algorithm, to isolate 
which factors have the greatest 
influence on pay for specific jobs. CAMPUS
Researchers Develop Noninvasive Glucose Monitor 
The rub-on, tattoo-based sensor uses electrodes to measure glucose levels in diabetes patients.
B Y   Kriti  Sarin
Editorial AssistantSee  AUTISM , page 3
See  DIABETES , page 3SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGYCA's Top 10 Universities by Salary Potential
Early Career Salary Mid-Career Salary  % Stem Degrees School
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10Harvey Mudd College
Stanford University
CalTech
UC Berkeley
Santa Clara University
UC San Diego
Occidental College
Cal Poly San Luis Obispo
UC Irvine
University of the Pacific$75,600
$62,900
$74,800
$59,500
$56,600
$50,600
$45,600
$56,200
$49,300
$51,500$133,800
$126,400
$126,200
$114,200
$111,700
$102,100
$101,900
$100,100
$99,100
$98,30086%
28% 
93%
31%
15%
38%
18%
31%
30%
31%
GRAPHIC  DESIGN BY JOSELYNN ORDAZ
The life and 
death of leg -
islation seems 
to hinge upon 
the personality 
of the college 
council and 
their relation to whomever is pre -
senting it — not the merits of the 
legislation.”
- Soren Nelson
POINT OF ORDER
OPINION , PAGE 4“
2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 22, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG N EWS
AVERAGE CAT By Christina Carlson
Registration for WINTER Qtr is NOW open!
Register online at 
as.ucsd.edu/saferides
A.S. Safe Rides allows register ed un dergradua te 
studen ts to  get 3  FREE rides per quarter .
Studen ts must r egister  at lea st 24 hours
prior to th eir first ride.  A.S. Safe Rides 
asucsd asucsdChancellor Pradeep Khosla recently appointed Emilie Hafner-Burton 
and Sheldon Brown to be the first chairs from UCSD to receive the 
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation endowment. Each will 
receive $1 million to sustain their academic endeavors for the next five 
years. Hafner-Burton is a professor at the UCSD School of International 
Relations and Pacific Studies and renowned expert in human rights and 
international law. Brown is a UCSD visual arts professor and site director 
for the Center for Hybrid Multicore Productivity Research as well as the 
director of the Arthur C. Clarke Center for Human Imagination.
—  TINA BUTOIU
News EditorCampus’ Stuart Art Collection to Receive $30,000 
Restoration Grant from National Endowment for the ArtsChancellor Names Inaugural $1 Million 
McArthur Foundation Endowment Recipients
The National Endowment for the Arts recently allocated a $30,000 grant 
to restore part of UCSD’s Stuart Collection of public art. The conservation 
project focuses on reinventing the video-art installation “Something Pacific” 
by the late artist Nam June Paik. This exhibit consists of various television 
sets scattered across campus and an indoor wall of 24 screens that used to be 
interactive when it was designed in 1986. With the help of UCSD Jacobs School 
of Engineering students and faculty, the Stuart Collection aims to restore some 
of the original visual effects on the indoor video wall and add new methods of 
interaction, including motion and sound sensors and a webcam.
— KRITI SARIN
Editorial AssistantBRIEFSronmental factors like viral infections 
or from unusual genes they possess 
that tell them to initiate a defensive 
response — they alter their basic func -
tions in an attempt to block out the 
perceived threat.
“One of the first things that hap -
pens when cells go to war is what 
happens when nations go to war: They 
harden their borders, ” Naviaux said. 
“From a cell’s point of view … [they] 
stiffen their membrane, so now a virus 
has a harder time penetrating the 
defenses of the cell. ”
CDR has a total of 30 metabolic 
functions that shift within cells when 
cells perceive danger. The message to 
engage in CDR is sent by high levels 
of extracellular ATP , and for children 
with ASDs who are found to exhibit 
such abnormal levels, their CDR can 
be left in an activated position indefi -
nitely, as Naviaux explained.
“ All of this is really important because another thing that happens 
when nations go to war is that they 
don’t trust their neighbors across 
the border, and they don’t talk to or 
exchange resources with their neigh -
bors, ” Naviaux said. “ And when cells 
don’t talk to each other, children stop 
talking. ”
Naviaux illustrated the isolating 
effects caused by autism with the meta -
phor of a child who wants to go outside 
and play with others but is trapped 
behind a frosted window. 
“ A lot of parents will describe that 
there are certain times when it seems 
like the glass is broken and the child 
comes out and they can actually speak 
and interact, ” Naviaux said. “But then 
they’ll fall back behind the veil for the 
majority of time, and they’ll be afraid 
to interact socially, and they won’t be 
able to talk and they’ll have many dif -
ferent behaviors that — from the point 
of view of the child — are defend -
ing them from an overstimulating and 
potentially hostile environment. They don’t interpret it that way, but their 
cells do. ”
In a metabolic analysis from 
Naviaux’s most recent study involving 
suramin, 17 of the biochemical path -
ways that represent CDR in both mice 
and in humans were identified, which 
strongly suggests an improvement in 
ASD symptoms. The other good news 
is that suramin has been found to pro -
vide benefits that last longer than the 
amount of time it remains within the 
body, as Naviaux explained. 
“[This] allows the possibility for 
children to amplify the effects of the 
drug treatment by being able to engage 
in natural play that, in their previous 
state, they never would have been able 
to do, ” Naviaux said. “Those kinds of 
things, [such as] playing with a brother 
or sister or friend, are actually the most 
potent kind of neural development 
known to man. ”
The next step in suramin-related 
ASD research will be a clinical trial: 
20 boys, of ages ranging from 4 to 9 with ASD in the San Diego area will 
be administered the drug through an 
IV infusion. Naviaux expects to see 
changes in the beginning stages of 
the experiment improvement in ASD 
symptoms, including speech and will -
ingness to interact socially.
What was witnessed in animal 
models, however, is that after six weeks, 
the immediate benefits of suramin lose 
potency, and subjects eventually return 
to previous social patterns. 
In addition, Naviaux stated that 
he is seeking to develop a treatment 
for ASD that does not rely heavily on 
medication.
“I’ d like to start a new chapter in 
pharmacology, ” Naviaux said. “One 
that is no longer restricted to ben -
efits that are only happening when a 
drug interacts with its receptor, and 
whenever the drug is gone, there’s no 
more benefit. ” Scientists Plan to Use Experimental Autism Drug in Clinical Trial in Greater San Diego Area
▶ AUTISM,  from page 1
Teiko Y akobson    syakobso@ucsd.edu readers can contactThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and 
Thursdays during the academic year by UCSD students 
and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this 
newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, 
without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2014, all 
rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible 
for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The 
views expressed herein do not necessarily represent 
the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of 
California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian 
is funded by advertising. Return of the Jew.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Audrey Sechrest
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Aleksandra Konstantinovic
Andrew E. Huang  
Taylor Sanderson
Tina Butoiu
Charu Mehra
Brandon Yu
John Story
Teiko Yakobson
Jacqueline Kim
Kyle Somers
Nilu Karimi
Siddharth Atre
Joselynn Ordaz
Elyse Yang
Annie Liu
Rosina Garcia
Laura Chow
Vincent PhamEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
  
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Social Media Coordinator
Training and Development
Page Layout
Sherman Aline, Allison Kubo, Sidney Gao, Charu Mehra
Copy Readers
Andrew Chao, Caroline Lee, Micaela Stone
Editorial Assistants
Shelby Newallis, Jennifer Grundman, Kriti Sarin, 
Karly Nisson, Sasha Pollock, Mario Attie, Marcus ThuillierTheir methods also make unique 
compensation predictions that each 
individual can be likely to receive at 
a job. 
This year, PayScale has expanded 
the breadth of data available in their 
2014–15 College Salary Report 
in order to help students better 
understand their future earning 
potential.
“The relationship between college 
tuition, what a student chooses to 
study while in school and becoming 
a wage earner after graduation has 
become clear, ” Lead Economist 
and Analytics Manager at PayScale Katie Bardaro said in a press release 
on Sept. 10, 2014. “The PayScale 
College Salary Report focuses on 
salary because, simply, it’s PayScale’s 
expertise, and data on post-graduate 
earnings is hard to come by 
elsewhere. ” 
UC Berkeley, which ranks as 
fourth in California and sixth in the 
nation, was the only University of 
California campus to surpass UCSD 
on both lists. On the list of schools 
within California, UC Irvine ranks 
as ninth, UC Davis as 13th, UC Santa 
Barbara as 14th and UCLA as 16th.
The number one school in 
California on the list is Harvey 
Mudd College, with an average early career salary of $75,600. 
Students can also compare the 
earnings of all alumni, including 
those who went on to obtain higher 
education degrees after receiving 
their bachelor’s degrees. The data 
collected for this list varies slightly, 
with UCSD dropping to seventh on 
the list of schools in California but 
maintaining its position nationally. 
“We want to empower students 
with information and set them 
up for success in regards to their 
future careers and financial health, ” 
Bardaro said.N EWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 22, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
Looking for the 
New Business 
Column?
Now posted every Wednesday 
night, after the A.S. Council 
meeting, online.
UCSD is Second in University of  California System in Payscale Ranking
▶ EARNINGS,  from page 1
Br ynna  Bol t   bbolts@ucsd.edu readers can contact
technique that measures glucose levels 
under the skin without perforating it. 
According to the study, the device then 
uses the electrodes to attract sodium 
ions that carry glucose molecules and 
uses a reacting enzyme to measure the 
resulting strength of the electric charge 
produced. This calculates the patient’s 
overall glucose levels. The sensor only 
costs a few cents and currently lasts 
for an entire day, which eliminates the 
need to manually check blood sugar 
levels multiple times daily.
Bandodkar explained that the 
glucose sensor implanted inside the 
device is crucial when it comes to 
precisely measuring glucose levels.
“The concentration of glucose 
extracted by the noninvasive tattoo 
device is almost 100 times lower than 
the corresponding level in the human 
blood, ” Bandodkar said in a Jan. 14 
Jacobs School of Engineering press 
release. “Thus, we had to develop 
a highly sensitive glucose sensor 
that could detect such low levels of 
glucose with high selectivity. ”The team tested the tattoo on 
seven non-diabetic volunteers 
between the ages of 20 and 40. None 
of the subjects reported feeling any 
form of discomfort except for mild 
tingling within the first 10 seconds 
of application. This differentiates 
the device from its predecessor, a 
product called GlucoWatch, which 
was released in 2002 by Cygnus Inc. 
but discontinued due to reports 
of skin irritation. Wang’s team 
eliminated this issue by employing 
a lower amount of electricity during 
the extraction process.
Ceren Y ardimci, a researcher 
and an associate professor from 
Hacettepe University in Turkey, told 
the Guardian that the team is currently 
working on implementing Bluetooth 
technology and added that the tattoo 
could potentially provide information 
about other conditions in the body.
“Our team is working toward 
developing wireless devices that 
would be able to send the information 
either to the patient’s doctor or to 
another device, ” Y ardimci said. “This 
kind of sensor would be able to detect other chemicals which can give 
information about other disease[s] 
or health conditions of patients. ”
According to the study, these 
tattoo-based sensors have already 
successfully monitored sweat 
electrolytes and a metabolite called 
lactate, which can be used to 
analyze fitness activity. Bandodkar 
explained that measurements from 
sweat can also be used to gauge the 
amount of alcohol present in the 
bloodstream.
“There is a good correlation 
between blood alcohol level and 
alcohol content in sweat, ” Bandodkar 
said. “So by measuring alcohol in 
sweat, one can identify how much 
alcohol must be there in the blood. 
This method is more reliable than 
the breath analyzers. ”
He added that detailed analysis of 
amino acids in the skin’s interstitial 
fluid, which is the fluid used in the 
glucose sensor, can be used to detect 
illegal drugs in the blood. Researchers Working to Incorporate Bluetooth Technology into Diabetes Study
▶ DIABETES,  from page 1
kriti  sarin    Ksarin@ucsd.edu readers can contact ucsdguardian.org4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 22, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CHARU  MEHRA
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
ILLUSTRATION BY IRENE LUUTis the season for A.S. Council 
drama, fa-la-la-la-la, la-la-
la-la. Don we now our slate 
apparel, fa-la-la … OK, maybe it 
sounded better in my head. Finally, 
we’ve reached the point in this 
council’s term when everyone has 
decided who they like and who they 
don’t — and more importantly, who 
they’re running with this spring. With 
elections rapidly approaching, council 
members are scrambling to create a 
record on which to run — and that 
means constitutional amendments.
Like clockwork, A.S. Council 
has started to churn out amend -
ments to the A.S. Constitution. The 
amendments themselves are largely 
meaningless. They’re typically adjust -
ments to the internal workings of the 
council and its offices — things that 
are unlikely to affect the average stu -
dent. These amendments do, however, 
serve as an important litmus test for 
the political state of A.S. Council, and 
occasionally, they even have an impact 
on people other than A.S. members. 
As a veteran of last year’s coun -
cil, whose leadership so comically 
botched its attempt at restructuring, 
let me give this council some advice.
First, realize that updating and 
maintaining a constitution in an orga -
nization like A.S. Council should not 
dominate discussion. It is a normal 
part of any organization to change 
governing documents, and an inability 
to do so in an orderly and efficient 
way is indicative of much greater 
underlying issues. For those of you 
who are trying to make a point: Stop. 
Fewer people care than perhaps you 
realize. If an amendment is so contro -
versial that you have to devote three 
hours of a meeting to discuss it, it’s 
probably just not a good amendment. 
Don’t waste people’s time.
Second, don’t rush it. I know I 
just said not to waste time, but there’s 
a difference. The previous council’s 
attempt at ramming constitutional 
amendments through was unsuc -
cessful for a number of reasons. 
Chief among those reasons was that 
it failed to take enough time to gain 
support, particularly from the college 
councils, two-thirds of whom have 
to ratify amendments in addition to 
A.S. Council. Do not be so smug as 
to assume the college councils will 
“rubber stamp” whatever you send 
their way.
My final piece of advice is directed 
at the college councils. The ratifica -
tion process for A.S. constitutional 
amendments could generously be 
called arcane. The life and death of 
legislation seems to hinge upon the 
personality of the college council and 
their relation to whomever is present -
ing it — not the merits of the legisla -
tion. The way A.S. Council operates 
has little to nothing to do with how 
college councils operate, making the 
argument for college council ratifica -
tion of A.S. amendments thin at best. 
The scrutiny college councils direct 
at A.S. constitutional amendments is 
unwarranted, so back off, y’all.
A.S. Council, your predecessors 
royally screwed up the process you are 
now embarking on. Learn from their 
mistakes. A council composed of just 
one slate is the perfect opportunity 
to create lasting and positive changes 
without the arduous political maneu -
vering that typically accompanies the 
process. So don’t mess it up. The UC Office of the President announced 
last week that the university system will start 
supplying 100 percent of its own electric 
energy instead of relying on third-party suppliers. 
The change is part of UCOP’s initiative to become 
the first research university system to achieve 
carbon neutrality within the next decade. This 
latest green initiative is a laudable addition to the 
numerous programs already in place on campus.
UCSD currently generates 85 percent of its 
electricity through various means and has bought 
the remaining power from a non-San Diego 
provider since 1998. Now that the UC system has 
taken it upon itself to sell its own energy, UCSD 
is now one step closer to becoming more self-
sufficient. These benefits apply to every UC campus 
and medical center as well, meaning that the 
positive effects of this initiative are not limited to 
any one school. This move will decrease overhead 
costs and provide much-needed control over how 
we purchase our electricity. The UC system is massive, and being able 
to enter its own energy contracts is a boon for 
sustainability efforts. Moving forward, it will be 
up to individual campuses to use this newfound 
energy in the most efficient manner possible. 
There is a plethora of potential improvements 
that can still be implemented on our campus. 
Replacing the low-pressure sodium streetlights 
with LEDs, a project now underway by Facilities 
Management, will save an estimated $45,000 
annually and contribute to reducing our carbon 
footprint. 
UCSD currently operates a 30-megawatt 
heat and power plant, and though natural gas 
is a significantly cleaner fossil fuel than coal or 
oil, the campus should focus on expanding its 
fledgling solar energy project. Additionally, 8 
percent of the campus’ energy is generated by 
processing methane gas from the Point Loma 
Wastewater Treatment Plant. 
Identifying areas for improvement in 
See ENERGY , page 5
ASUCSD MOVES plans to replace our quarterly bus stickers with 
microchips in student ID cards by the end of February. Despite elimi -
nating the need for students to get new bus stickers every quarter and 
providing some other long-term conveniences for students, this apparent 
innovation seems like a waste of time and money. 
Although the university loves to seem as technologically advanced as 
possible,  replacing the entire student population’s ID cards with more 
expensive versions seems like an inefficient use of already stretched 
resources.  Because the university requires every student to pay a $50 
transportation fee for a Triton U-Pass, it would be much simpler and 
cost-efficient to revert to a yearly sticker distribution rather than to 
implement another major change that would be nothing but an immedi -
ate inconvenience. 
The university could even take this a step further and dispense with 
bus stickers entirely. Simply having valid UCSD ID cards could serve 
the purpose of bus stickers without the waste of additional resources. 
Although this might not keep a few straggling alumni from cashing in on 
free bus rides after they stop paying fees, it would eliminate the issue of 
quarterly sticker distribution. The cost of moochers seems like a smaller 
price than the cost of replacing every student’s cards with microchipped 
versions. In fact, implementing this plan could cause a bigger issue if 
some students decided to let their friends use their old IDs at on-campus 
events. There would definitely be an overlap when students transition to 
the new IDs, and having old and new student IDs in circulation at the 
same time would be simply chaotic.
The cost of adding microchips has not been publicly released, but 
there’s little doubt that it would be more expensive than a sticker. With so 
few good reasons to switch and a dangerously thin Transportation budget, 
the important question here is “Why bother?”Last week, UCSD’s School of Medicine was named one of the top residency 
programs in the country. However, this past December, UCSD Medical Center 
was fined by the U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services for receiving 
a poor Hospital-Acquired Condition score, demonstrating that higher rankings 
for hospitals do not necessarily translate to quality care. 
And this is hardly a small issue. In 2010, the Office of Inspector General for 
the Department of Health and Human Services said that 180,000 patient deaths 
per year are caused by preventable medical mistakes in the U.S. For comparison, 
in the same year, only 33,000 Americans died in the same year in car accidents. 
For the UCSD School of Medicine to be scored among the bottom seventh of 
U.S. hospitals is frightening.
Obviously, getting rid of teaching hospitals isn’t a possible solution, so the 
change needs to be made in policy. One of the U.S. Department of Human 
Health and Service’s current policies is a 1-percent decrease in Medicare 
payments to hospitals, such as UCSD’s School of Medicine, that received poor 
HAC scores for hospital safety. While the decrease in payment acts as an 
incentive for hospitals to increase safety, the deduction will hurt these hospitals 
by making safety procedures more difficult to implement.
Rather than cut funding for hospitals which may need it to improve 
the quality of their care, better solutions might include focusing more on 
supervision and an increasing staff to limit medical mistakes made by students.
It’s hard to say what an improved system for student health care will look 
like precisely, but the American Medical Association is handing out $10 million 
in grants between 2013 and 2018 to medical schools that have valid ideas for 
improvement. These changes are being tested in more individualized learning 
plans and programs that focus on patient safety.
Hopefully, the most successful strategies found will be put into effect at the 
UCSD Medical School and other medical schools that pose safety issues to their 
patients. Students shouldn’t be wary to visit their own high-ranking teaching 
hospital if they need to, but until changes are made, they have every right to be.Amend the
Constitution,
Leave Out
The Drama
soren  nelson 
senelson@ucsd.edupoint of order
Going, Going Green
The University of  California’s plan to go carbon neutral by 2025 is a step in the 
right direction, but students can still contribute more to sustainability efforts.EDITORIALS
Aleksandra Konstantinovic
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Andrew E. Huang
MANAGING EDITOR
Taylor Sanderson
MANAGING EDITOR  
Charu Mehra
OPINION EDITOR
Tina Butoiu
NEWS EDITOR
Kyle Somers
ASSOCIATE A&E EDITOR
KRITI SARIN
EDITORIAL ASSISTANT
The UCSD Guardian is published twice weekly at the 
University of California at San Diego. Contents © 2014. 
Views expressed herein represent the majority vote of the edi -
torial board and are not necessarily those of the UC Board of 
Regents, the ASUCSD or the members of the Guardian staff. EDITORIAL  BOARD
ID Microchips are Unnecessary UC Medical Center on the RocksOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 22, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
outdated lecture halls and 
residences will also make sure we 
waste as little electricity as possible. 
Going green isn’t restricted to 
our university administration. For 
students, sustainability is as easy 
as turning off unneeded lights 
and appliances. Our new Triton 
U-passes provide accessibility to 
San Diego Metropolitan Transit 
System buses and campus shuttles, 
many of which are switching to 
renewable fuel and maintenance 
practices, making it easier to 
cut down on harmful emissions 
from personal vehicles. That 
being said, while the U-passes 
are certainly useful to a number of ends (the greatest of which is 
improving transit opportunities 
for students), we can certainly be 
hopeful that students paying into 
higher fees isn’t always the answer 
to addressing eco-based concerns. 
Students can independently take 
action to supplement institutional 
changes to energy issues. For 
example, ensuring to separate our 
recycling from garbage will go 
a long way to establishing good, 
sustainable habits and won’t require 
a large financial contribution. 
Reaching carbon neutrality by 
2025 will require a team effort — 
particularly from UC campuses that 
lack the already well-established 
resources that the La Jolla campus 
has. But the system’s commitment to making this clean energy project 
come to life is a welcome change 
from the typically bad news we’re 
used to hearing from the UCOP 
headquarters in Oakland. As 
this issue goes to print, the UC 
Board of Regents is meeting in 
San Francisco, in part to discuss 
how to respond to the governor’s 
funding plan for this year. As Gov. 
Jerry Brown and UC President 
Janet Napolitano have preliminarily 
agreed to a tag-team analysis task 
force to better manage UC finances, 
a carbon neutrality plan of this 
caliber is a positive first step not 
only toward green accountability 
but toward making sure the UC 
system can cut needless spending 
whenever possible.
CONFUSED MUSE  By Elyse Yang
Carbon neutrality projects are a good cost-saving measure for the campus
▶ ENERGY , from page 4GOT ISSUES?
BE HEARD
BY YOUR PEERS!SEND YOUR 
LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGWEEKENDARTS   |   FOOD & DRINK   |   LIVING   
 FILM  &  TV   |   MUSIC   |   THINGS  TO  DO
A&E Editor:  Jacqueline Kim • entertainment@ucsdguardian.org | Lifestyle Editor: Nilu Karimi • lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
Experience Belmont Park-  
This beachfront amusement park, located in Mission Beach, is open 
year-round and offers a variety of different attractions, including roller 
coasters, laser tag and miniature golf. SAN DIEGO 
BUCKETLIST
2015
We all made new year’s resolutions to see more of San Diego 
County and take advantage of the beautiful place we live in, 
right? That resolution was probably sandwiched right between going 
to the gym more often and getting better grades. Well, if you somehow 
forgot to add this to your list of resolutions, you definitely need to pen -
cil it in. If you haven’t noticed, San Diego is an area worth exploring 
and at the end of your four (or five) years, you don’t want to look back 
and realize that all you saw during your time at UCSD was the inside 
of Geisel library. To make achieving this resolution easy for you, here is 
a list of some of the things you can do and see this year in San Diego.Eat dinner in all of downtown San 
Diego’s neighborhoods-  
From Gaslamp to Hillcrest to North Park, San Dieg o has a variety of 
interesting districts that each has unique histories, different cultural 
attractions and a variety of restaurants. There is no better way to ex -
perience each area than eating dinner there and seeing the neighbor -
hood for yourself. 
 
Tour the USS Midway -
Go to Farmer’s Markets-  
Given the beautiful weather, farmers ’ markets in San Diego are open 
year-round. Some noteworthy ones are the Hillcrest farmers’ market, 
open Sunday morning, and the North Park farmers’ market open 
Thursday afternoons. If these locations are too far for you, the La Jolla 
open aire market is set up every Sunday on the upper playground of 
La Jolla Elementary School.  
 
See Coronado Island-  
Drive across the famous bridge, tour the  Hotel del Coronado, window 
shop, bike around the Island or visit one of the many parks, all in a 
day’s visit. 
 Take a picture at the Carlsbad 
flower fields-   
From early March to early May, you can visit the Carlsbad Ranch 
and see 50 acres of giant tecolote ranunculus (a member of the 
buttercup family) in bloom. The fields are open every day for the 
season, and you can walk through the field, bring a picnic, take 
tons of pretty photos and buy fresh flowers.  
 
Go t o the beach-  
With school, work and various other commitments, many people 
forget to go to the beach despite the fact that our school is so close 
to it. So whether you’re going to go swim, tan, surf, have a bonfire 
or just walk along the sand, go to the beach this year! 
 Find the best California burrito in 
San Diego-  
California burritos are  a quintessential part of living in the Golden 
State. They are delicious and can be found in most Mexican restau -
rants. Many taco shops claim they have the best one, but the only real 
way to find out is to try them all for yourself. Lolita’s Taco Shop, Don 
Carlos Taco Shop and Lucha Libra Taco Shop are all great places to 
start this journey.    Visit Balboa Park-  
Each Tuesday, different museums a t the park are free for San Diego 
residents.  If museums aren’t your thing, there are other attractions 
in and around Balboa Park including gardens, the San Diego Zoo 
and Performances. Additionally, the California Tower, which has not 
been open since 1935, is reopening for tours this yea r.    
 
Tour a brewery-  
San Diego has been titled the “craft beer capital, ” which means that 
there are excellent breweries everywhere. Y ou can tour some of them 
or go taste testing to experience the variety of beers available in this 
county.   Hike the country-  
Whether it be Torrey Pines or Mount Woodson ( more commonly 
known as Potato Chip Rock), hiking gives you an opportunity to see 
stunning views of the county. There are many different hikes available, 
so grab a trail guide and find one that will suit your ability level.   
  6                                                                            THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 22, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG                               WEEKEND 
The Midway is one of San Diego’s premier tourist attractions, so 
hop aboard the longest-serving U.S. aircraft carrier. Afterward, you 
can visit the “Unconditional Surrender” statue — a 25-foot statue 
that depicts the famous kiss of World War II — and walk around 
Seaport Village, both of which are within walking distance of the 
USS Midway.   WEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 22, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
Winter  Fashionwritten by Ridho Utama // Staff Writer
WOMENS
 Tribal ankle boots
The tribals are coming back this year and they are coming in 
strong, so expect to see lots of exotic and exquisite designs. 
The tribal ankle boots are a perfect choice for San Diego’s 
warm winter. They will keep you moderately warm while also 
keeping you in style. Whether it is Baja Bohemian or Medieval 
Cherokee, find your tribe and wear it loud and proud!Faux fur vest
Winter in San Diego is no winter in D.C., 
so ditch that coat and jacket because you 
won’t need them here. What you need 
instead is one piece of faux fur vest. One 
great thing about it is its versatility. Wear it 
casually with a tank top and skinny jeans 
for class or dressy with your tunic and 
stilettos for a night out. It’s your choice and 
you can do absolutely no wrong.
Print Leggings
Prints and colors will dominate the fashion scene in 2015. Join 
the crowd and get yourself a pair of two-print leggings. The 
designs include animal style, tribal, stripes, floral, military and 
national flags. Your options are endless. Wear them with a 
colorful print tee and throw in some accessories or layer colors 
on top of colors because you can never have too many colors. 
These leggings will make you fab and strikingly fierce.
SLIM VARSITY JACKETS
Expect to see lots of classic comeback this year, but be pre -
pared for some modern alterations. Welcome the new, much 
thinner version of this American classic — the (slim) varsity 
jacket. It is great looking and versatile. Wear it casual with 
your skinny jeans and combat boots or get a little dressy with 
chinos and oxfords. One thing for sure is that it will keep you 
looking sharp and dapper all day.
WHITE SOLE BOOTS
We have all faced that difficult question: Should I wear boots or 
sneakers today? Don’t get confused anymore. White sole boots 
are the answer to your dilemma. These boots combine both 
sneakers and boots into a pair of fine, stylish-looking shoes that 
fit perfectly into your shoe rack. They’re perfect for the not-so-
hot, not-so-cold winter in America’s finest city.JOGGERS
Gym wear has recently 
gone into the fashion 
mainstream. Joggers are 
a must-have item in your 
closet. They are very 
versatile and flexible when 
it comes to how you wear 
them. The joggers will 
always be a perfect choice 
whether you’re out running 
by the beach or going on 
a movie date. Who says 
you can’t mix comfort and 
style? The joggers prove 
that wrong!MENS
PHOTO COURTESY OF  NINA HALEPHOTO COURTESY OF WHERE TO GET ITPHOTO COURTESY OF  GARETH WILLIAMSPHOTO COURTESY OF PLAIN ME SELECT SHOPPHOTO COURTESY OF MAEGAN TINTARI
PHOTO COURTESY OF IDEAS FASHION8     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 22, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG WEEKEND
winter wonderlandBEAR GARDEN
FREE FOR ALL UCSD UNDERGRADS
JANUARY 23, 3-6 PM, MATTHEWS QUAD
Churros
El TigreLittle
CaesarsDelicioso
Catering
Food TruckKettle
Masters 
Kettle Korn
Despite its good intentions as a adoption cen -
ter for felines, the Cat Cafe fails expectations 
with subpar food and overwhelmed cats.
Before you visit The Cat Cafe, 
you should ask yourself: “Do 
I really like cats?”
Consider this, not because 
they’re inescapable — the 
two kitties present lay 
curled in their cubbies with 
typical catlike indifference 
— but because there’s oth -
erwise not much of a reason 
to go.
The Cat Cafe doubles as 
an adoption clinic, giving 
patrons the chance to meet 
and play with potential 
pets. The building is split in 
two, consisting of a narrow 
cafe section and the larger 
playpen, which holds tables, 
chairs and, of course, cats.
In the cafe, you can pick 
your favorite combina -
tion of coffee, chocolate, 
caramel and milk and grab 
one of the prepackaged 
pastries before heading to 
the playpen. Kitty contain -
ment is taken very seriously 
— double doors between 
areas avert any sort of culinary cat-
astrophe.  
Drink prices range from $2 to 
$5, depending on complexity and 
size. The small hot chocolate ful -
filled its warm, chocolatey promise 
but did nothing to stand out. The 
sweets cost $2 to $3, which would be acceptable had they been made 
on-site. Despite their sugary efforts, 
neither the blueberry muffin nor 
the apple strudel inspired particu -
lar appetite. Both tasted more like 
something bought in bulk from a 
supermarket than sold at a cafe. 
I lost my will to continue after a 
couple bites.  
Of course, while there are doz -
ens of places to grab a cup of joe 
and a donut, only one comes with 
cats. The Cat Cafe’s titular inhabit -
ants are well cared after. The floor 
is littered with toys, and the pet 
doors in the back ensure that the 
cats are never over -
whelmed by human 
interaction —although 
while I was there, the 
two kitties were either 
unimpressed with my 
efforts or too tired to 
play.
A poster board 
proudly displays past 
successes — though 
if you’re thinking of 
adopting, the owner 
recommends that you 
call ahead.
Cat cafes originated 
in Taiwan but were 
popularized in Japan. 
The Cat Cafe is one of 
many cat cafes that have 
now begun to pop up in 
America.
If you need your 
morning fix or a quick 
snack, The Cat Cafe 
falls short. But if you’re planning 
to adopt, The Cat Cafe is an excel -
lent place to wet your whiskers while 
looking for your new best friend.
—    Adam  fisher
contributing writer
IMAGE COURTESY OF ADAM FISHERcoffee  break: The ca t cafe
Hours  7 a.m. to 3 p.m.
Location   472 Third Ave.
San Diego, CA 920 10Why This 
Generation’s 
Music is Just 
the Worst
KYLE SOMERS 
A&E Associate Editor
ksomers@ucsd.eduOff the 
Record
I remember pulling up to red 
lights alongside another car 
blasting hip-hop out of its 
subwoofers when I was little, and 
my mom would just roll her eyes 
and tell me how stupid that kind 
of music is. And like everything 
else my parents ever told me, she 
was unconditionally correct. But 
it’s not just the entire rap/hip-hop 
genre that’s tainting music (I mean, 
if you can call that music. It’s really 
just words with fake drum beats). 
Nearly all of the most popular art -
ists, from One Direction and Justin 
Bieber to Skrillex, show how this 
generation’s taste in music is on 
track to be the worst in recorded 
history.
For anyone not familiar with 
the deteriorating state of modern 
music, just turn on the radio. It’s 
all a bunch of trendy pop hits that 
no one is even going to remember 
a few decades from now. We’re all 
left pining for the good old days, 
like 1977 when hits like “Y ou Light 
Up My Life” by Debby Boone and 
“Evergreen” by Barbra Streisand 
dominated the airwaves for 10 and 
three straight weeks, respectively. Instant and permanent classics!
I’m tired of hearing songs about 
misogyny and glorified drug use. 
Give me the good old days when 
“Brown Sugar” and “Whole Lotta 
Love” objectified women in a 
cool way or when the Beatles “got 
high with a little help from their 
friends. ” And sure “Baby, It’s Cold 
Outside” sounds pretty rapey when 
you listen to the lyrics, but, hey, it’s 
a classic. 
The problem is that popular, 
post-2010 music is shallow and 
meaningless. And it’s all the same 
shtick: Nicki Minaj shakes her butt, 
Justin Bieber whines about girls 
nonstop and Kendrick Lamar gives 
a non-linear narrative of his life, 
promoting self-belief while damn -
ing the gang mentality he grew up 
in. And he uses the n-word a lot.
What modern music really 
needs now is some rock like they 
had back in the golden days. And, 
no, I mean besides the Arctic 
Monkeys, Jack White, Kings of 
Leon, The Strokes, Streetlight 
Manifesto, Wolfmother, Arcade 
Fire, the Foo Fighters and Muse. 
And I mean besides smaller garage 
rock/indie-rock acts like Ought, 
FIDLAR, Mikal Cronin, Ex Hex, 
The Frights, The Vaccines and 
many others like them. Besides 
those, today’s rock scene is dead.
Let’s face it, we’re not going to 
wake up tomorrow and have some 
asshat like Kanye West boldly 
changing the soundscapes of music 
the way the Beatles did, and Adele 
isn’t going to suddenly become the 
kind of talented and respectable 
singer that Ella Fitzgerald once 
was. If there’s any beacon of hope 
and reason for this generation, it’s 
in the place that knows this best: 
the Y outube music video comment 
sections.PHOTO COURTESY OF ADAM FISHERWEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 22, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
www.ucsdguardian.org/advertisingT urn Your ACTIONS
into Words
Advertise your event, your product!
Advertise yourself withucsdguardian
.
orgYOUR
NEWS
NOW!“American Sniper” is 
destined to recreate 
the endless controversy 
raised by Kathryn Bigelow’s “Zero 
Dark Thirty. ” The same people who 
claimed “Zero” justified the use 
of torture by the U.S. military will 
take Clint Eastwood’s film to be a 
celebration of brute patriotism. A 
tagline of “ American Sniper” reads, 
“The most lethal sniper in U.S 
history, ” and another asserts, “One 
hundred sixty kills made history. ” 
Is it decent to honor a man for the 
number of people he’s killed? What 
does a society that glorifies snipers 
say about itself? Although these 
questions are fair and important, 
the film is by no means mere 
pro-war propaganda. “ American 
Sniper” is upsettingly honest and, 
similarly to Bigelow’s “Zero, ” is better 
understood when interpreted as an 
uncompromising portrayal of the 
Iraq War. Both films expose the (in)
humanity of the people involved and let the audience draw their 
conclusions.
The film, an adaptation of Chris 
Kyle’s memoir of the same name, 
follows his journey from reckless 
cowboy to top Navy SEAL. Kyle 
(Bradley Cooper), known as “The 
Legend” for his 160 reported kills, 
is the paradigmatic patriot — for 
him, the land of the free ought to be 
defended at any cost and sacrifice, 
no questions asked. He decides to 
enlist after seeing a report of the 
1998 attacks on U.S embassies in 
southeast Africa. But it is 9/11 that 
fundamentally changes him; the 
world gets simplified into “Us” vs. 
“Them, ” good vs. evil. Indeed, in the 
mind of the man who calls every 
Arab male between 16 and 65 a 
“savage, ” the war takes an almost 
spiritual tone — he fights, as Bob 
Dylan would have it, with God on his 
side. That’s not to say that Cooper’s 
Kyle is one-dimensional; rather, 
the film’s greatest virtue lies in its exploration of Kyle’s psychological 
burdens. Eastwood reminds us once 
again that a soldier’s pain does not 
stay in Iraq but is at its highest in the 
return home. At times, “ American 
Sniper” seems to suggest that there 
is no coming back from war, no 
home left for the hero, no woman 
waving her arms at an airport, no 
child hugging her daddy. Chris Kyle 
is always in Iraq, even when at a 
barbecue in Erath County, Texas.
But what makes Kyle such a 
fascinating and disturbing individual 
is his lack of remorse over the 
hundreds of persons he’s killed. 
When his therapist asks him if there’s 
something he wished he hadn’t done, 
he replies calmly, “Oh, that’s not me. 
No. I’m willing to meet my Creator 
and answer for every shot that I 
took. ” His torments are obsessive 
ruminations about the fellows he 
didn’t save. Kyle’s post-traumatic 
stress disorder is caused by a severe 
feeling of guilt — every day he’s not 
in Iraq is a day an American is dying 
because he’s not there. But what 
about the country he’s invading? 
What about the thousands of Iraqi 
widows? What about the Arab 
sniper who is at the other side of the 
battlefield? Oh, but that’s not him.
If interpreted as a celebration of 
Kyle’s life, the film does in fact raise 
alarming questions about our war 
culture and national character. 
However, such an interpretation may 
fail to see the distinction between 
Kyle’s worldview and that of the film. 
It is easy to dismiss the movie as an 
ode to American exceptionalism; it 
is truer, however, to see it as an open 
portrait of a real man. “ American 
Sniper” , perhaps despite itself, gives 
us a distressing look at the people 
who fight our wars.   
—      Mario A ttie
Editorial Assistant
Directed by  Clint Eastwood
Starring   Bradley Cooper, Sienna Miller, Max Charles, Marc Lee
Rated R
Release Date Jan. 15Bradley Cooper delivers a layered performance 
in tribute to the deadly Navy SEAL Chris Kyle. FILM   REVIEW
American    SNiperStrange  bird
by  Na t alie W alker
Release Date Jan. 27
Natalie Walker’s newest Electronica album 
Strange Bird is both emotional and danceable.ALBUM   REVIEW
Who would have thought 
that Katy Perry and Sofia 
Coppola have similar tastes 
in music? No one, probably, unless 
you’re Natalie Walker, whose blend 
of electronica and alternative has 
received tweeted praise from Perry 
and made its way onto the big screen 
in Coppola’s quirky period drama 
“Marie Antoinette. ” Walker’s recog -
nition in both the film and music 
industries came after the singer-song -
writer split from the trip-hop group 
Daughter Darling and embarked on a 
solo career. Since then, she’s crafted a 
mix of indie-pop and electronica that 
is both haunting and ethereal. Her lat -
est album “Strange Bird” is no excep -
tion, yet her fourth full-length brings 
a mature edge to Walker’s discography.
Electronica tends to be a relatively 
“cold” genre, distancing itself from 
listeners with its technologically engi -
neered rhythms and melodies and 
rendering the only human side of its 
music — namely, the vocalist — as 
just another instrument in the back -
ground. Walker, on the other hand, 
puts her rich mezzo-soprano vocals 
and gentle songwriting at the forefront 
of every track, effectively humanizing 
electronica. The lead single “Trust” 
does just this, opening the album 
with a catchy ‘80s-inspired beat that 
is laced with the comforting plucking 
of an electric guitar and Walker’s warm 
lyrics: “Climb the wall,/ Brick by brick/ 
We’ll jump off/ From the top/ To the 
edge/ Hold my hand/ Y ou can trust me. ” 
This track and several others on “Strange Bird” hint at Walker explor -
ing a slightly different sound com -
pared to some of her past electro-pop 
lullabies (take the hypnotic titular 
track off of 2008’s “With Y ou”), show -
casing synthesizers as much as instru -
ments more typical of more mundane 
pop. “Guns Down, ” for example, 
begins and is interlaced with a pain -
fully melancholic piano playing minor 
key chords that may very well have 
been lifted from the somber work of 
Vince Guaraldi. The smoothly pro -
duced track is full of dream-pop sen -
sibility, giving a glimpse of Walker’s 
potential to succeed in that genre.
Other songs still retain Walker’s 
roots in trip-hop, such as the track 
“Lightning. ” The song gives Walker 
the opportunity to show off her 
powerhouse vocals that stand out in 
a melody influenced by ‘90s alterna -
tive rock. Likewise, the hip beats of 
“Skywalker” manage to create a tune 
that is both danceable and emotional. 
Here, Walker sings with a determined 
attitude, “I am here and I am free 
from captivity/ I’m breaking in my 
wings/ … I’m opening the door/ It’s 
time to make a move. ” More than 
anything, these lines are an anthem 
to the musician’s growth over her 
13-year-old career, during which she 
has refined her sound into an uncat -
egorizable one. Her new album is 
simply a testament to this strange bird 
starting to really take flight.
—    Jacqueline   Kim
a&e editorPHOTO COURTESY OF WASHINGTON POST10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 22, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
CLASSIFIEDS$
Guar dian Classi/f_ieds ar e FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifieds
BIKES
A Bunch of Bikes That Need to Go - Looking 
to get rid of them all at once. Also have others that are not pictured. Listing ID: 113553825 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Solid Training Wheels for 20” , 18” , 16” , 14” - 
$8. Fits four different sizes of bikes. These are solid.  Will not bend even with 200 lbs. Like new with side protectors. Listing ID: 11355823 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
26in GIANT Women’s Aluminum Cruiser 
with Basket - $129. All aluminum frame tank style. Comfortable cruiser seat saddle type. 26in aluminum wheels. Asking $129. Attractive condition. Listing ID: 113553821 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
FURNITURE
China Cabinet - $300. China cabinet. L36”xH66”xW15” . With glass front and 3 drawers. Listing ID: 113547883 at ucsd
-
guardian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tion
Papasan Chair from Pier1 - $50. Like new. 
Base is made from durable natural rattan. Cushion is aqua blue velour (polyester). Cushion dimensions are 50” diameter x 4” deep. Chair is 45.5” in diameter. Listing ID: 112476413 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Futon, Full Size Like New - $80. Like new 
futon. Beige velour cover. Full size inner
-
spring mattress. Very comfortable. Wood frame with wood slates. Includes additional palm tree cover and full-size mattress cover. Listing ID: 112476404 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
ELECTRONICS
Xbox 360 Slim 4g - $130. For sale Xbox 360 
slim 4g. Mint condition comes with 1 game 
and 1 controller. Listing ID: 113547937 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Kids Cubby Tablet - $30. Like new kids 
cubby tablet. Need to sell ASAP . Is android powered and has lots of apps for kids and 
also adults. Listing ID: 111415592 at ucsd
-
guardian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tion
Canon 5D Mark II - $1200. In fantastic con -
dition. Does not come with lens pictured, 
but I can add it for an additional $400. This camera has been taken well care of. Cash only. No negotiating on the price or trade 
ins. Listing ID: 113553832 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
t
your visio n,
our missio n.
outfitters@ucsd.eduCreate custom a pparel to 
promote your student 
organiza tion with Triton 
Outfitter's new Made TO Order program!www.ucsdguardian.org/advertising
.com/ucsdguardian
.com/ucsdguardian
Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies 
on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.ukLevel: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
Level:
12
34Level:
12
34Level: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234
Level: 1234Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
Level:
12
34Level:
12
34
SUDOKU
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 22, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
despite traveling to the tournament 
without one of their best foilists, 
sophomore Mitchell Shulman, due to 
injury.
“On the men’s side, this year, 
we probably have the best foil team 
we’ve ever put together, ” Runyan said. 
“They’re really talented. ”
Freshman foilist David Hadler 
finished with a strong 11–3 record on 
the day, showing superior play in spite 
of his age. 
“He had an excellent performance 
against all the teams there and fenced really well, ” Runyan said. “He’s a fresh -
man, but he has a lot of experience. 
In his final year in high school and at 
the beginning of orientation weekend, 
he was fencing at World Cups, so he’s 
gone off against some of the top fenc -
ers in the world. ” 
Senior sabrist Peter Meckling and 
junior epeeist Art Arutjunancs also 
had an incredible tournament, each 
finishing with an 11–4 record. 
While the well-rounded perfor -
mances of the weekend show strong 
promise for the rest of UCSD’s season, 
the Tritons still have a tough road 
ahead. “It adds a lot of confidence, but I 
do need to say that the challenge is 
even bigger coming up in a week and 
a half when we go to Northwestern, ” 
Runyan said. “There, we’ll see the 
teams that generally finish at the top of 
the NCAA nationals. ” 
Both men’s and women’s teams will 
compete at the San Diego Open on 
Sunday, Jan. 25, located at Cathedral 
Catholic High School before compet -
ing in the Northwestern Duals the 
following week on Jan. 31. 
Search for Wins Only Harder as UCSD Faces T ougher Teams
coach Kevin Ring told the UCSD 
Athletics Department. “They have 
two really good middles who are 
very physical that they will set from 
along the net and off the net. Their 
pin hitters are very physical. They hit 
high, hard and deep. ”
In the first two sets, UCSD largely 
trailed from behind, though the 
second proved the worst performance 
as the Tritons could only manage 
three kills en route to the Matadors’ 
resounding 25–13 victory. 
However, the blue and gold let the third set slip through their own 
fingers, as they held a permanent lead 
up until their 17th point. Cal State 
Northridge broke free on two huge 
runs to swing the set in its favor and 
ultimately seal the match sweep. 
“We knew what we needed to do 
to attack them and get them out of 
system, ” Ring said. “Unfortunately, we 
were not as strong as we needed to be 
from the service line. ”
Starting the season below 0.500 
has no doubt been disappointing for 
the program, especially considering 
the everlasting struggle to produce 
a winning season since the team’s inception. The 2014 season ended 
with a 4–23 overall record with only 
two victories in the MPSF, and though 
the season is still young, matches 
thus far have prompted little hope for 
better results in 2015. 
UCSD will attempt to turn things 
around as the team opens at home 
against an even tougher No. 5 USC 
squad this Thursday, Jan. 22, at 7 p.m. 
before traveling to Riverside to play 
California Baptist University at 7 p.m. 
the following day. ▶ M. VOLLEYBALL,  from page 12Tritons Will Next Compete in San Diego Open this Sunday
▶ FENCING ,  from page 12
readers can contact
john stor y    jstory@ucsd.edu UCSD has officially begun its season, 
these opening matchups against 
Division-I schools serve as little 
real indication of what is to come 
throughout the season’s primarily 
Division-II play.
“We have been working on being 
more aggressive and going in for 
our shots more, which is what [UC] 
Irvine was able to do against us, ” 
LaPlante said. “[Cal State] Fullerton 
will be almost as tough as the [UC] Irvine match. Again, [it’s] more of 
an exhibition against a Division-I 
program, so we’re hoping to get some 
really good practice out of it. ”
Th e Tritons travel to Cal State 
Fullerton on Wednesday, Jan. 21, in 
another opportunity to challenge 
and prepare themselves before they 
return home for their Division-II 
opener against Azusa Pacific Univer -
sity on Saturday, Feb. 7. 
readers can contact
liam leahy   lleahy@ucsd.edu Home Opener Set for Saturday, Feb. 7
▶ W. TENNIS,  from page 12
readers can contact
john  stor y   jstory@ucsd.edu 
@UCSD_SportsFollow us on Twitter
PHOTO BY SIDDHARTH ATRE/ GUARDIAN FILEPHOTO BY NHAN NGUYEN/ GUARDIAN FILESPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
BRANDON  YU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 22, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
Despite facing tough Division-I 
competition, the UCSD fencing team 
found dramatic success in Colorado 
Springs last weekend at the Western 
Invitational hosted by the Air Force 
Academy. 
The women’s team took first place, 
winning the tournament’s Western 
Fencing Conference title after defeat -
ing Stanford University 17–10, Air 
Force 15–12 and California Institute 
of Technology 25–2 for the champion -
ship. The men’s squad also performed 
strongly, finishing in second place 
after defeating Air Force by a narrow 
14–13 margin but falling to Stanford 
16–11.  
“It was just a great team perfor -
mance, and they particularly brought 
up the level when they were fencing 
against people within the conference, ” 
UCSD assistant coach Josh Runyan 
told the UCSD Guardian. “Stanford’s 
the team that always gives us problems 
every year, and usually we’re finishing 
behind them, also with Air Force … 
so [we] are really doing well. ” 
Junior sabrist Megan Gesner pro -
duced the strongest Triton record on Saturday, finishing at 12 –4, while fel -
low junior epeeist Nicole Chiang also 
did well, winning 11 of 17 matches. 
“Our best performer for the week -
end was a veteran: Megan Gesner, ” 
Runyan said. “She’s very talented. She 
fenced very solid against everyone 
and was really the rock behind the 
women’s team. ” 
Freshmen foilist Sophia Holmqvist 
and freshman sabrist Charlotte 
Stender went 10 –6 and 9 –4, respec -tively. Stender impressively went 
undefeated in all of her Stanford 
matchups. 
The Triton women also competed 
in out-of-conference matches, win -
ning 18–9 against Brandeis University 
but losing 20–7 to Duke University 
and 19–8 to Northwestern University.  
On the men’s side, the Tritons 
had strong performances all around, 
UCSD Swept Against Division I FoesMEN'S VOLLEYBALL
The Tritons fail to win a single set against No. 11 CSU Long Beach and No. 15 CSU Northridge.
BY JOHN STORY ASSOCIATE SPORTS EDITOR // PHOTO BY SIDDHARTH ATRE
The UCSD men’s volleyball team will 
look toward its season home opener 
this evening 
against University of Southern California 
as the Tritons lick their wounds from a 
season-low hitting performance at No. 15 
Cal State Northridge last Friday and a sweep 
the Wednesday prior at No. 11 Cal State 
Long Beach. Both losses came at the end of a 
season-opening four-game road stretch that 
puts UCSD at 1–3 overall to start its 2015 
campaign and 0–2 in Mountain Pacific Sports 
Federation play. 
In last Wednesday’s sweep, the Tritons 
managed to produce leads in all three sets, 
only to lose to the 49ers by scores of 25–21, 25–20 and 25–15 in Long Beach. The first 
two sets were disputed and shared a similar 
pattern. UCSD fought their way to ties and 
leads before Cal State Long Beach runs put the 
sets away. In the third set, despite holding a 
lead at 9–7 and coming back to a tie at 12–12, 
UCSD could only muster three points for the 
rest of the set as the 49ers secured the sweep.  
Cal State Long Beach improved its 
undefeated record to 4–0 and recorded its 
sixth straight victory over UCSD, with the four 
last ones coming in straight sets. The Tritons 
dropped their hit percentage under 0.300 for 
the first time in the new season, managing 
only 0.229 — a decline that would continue on 
Friday. Cal State Long Beach hit 0.396 and also won the defensive battle at the block, 8.5–2.0.
UCSD was swept yet again by No. 15 MPSF 
opponent Cal State Northridge on Friday in 
Northridge to drop the second conference 
match of the season. The Matadors’ win 
improved their season standing to 3–2 overall 
and 1–0 in MPSF action.
The outing proved unfortunate for the 
Tritons in terms of their hitting performance 
— posting a dismal 0.027 (20–18–73) average 
on the night and losing each set 25–20, 25–13 
and 25–21, respectively. 
“Heading into [Friday’s] match, we felt like 
we had a pretty good game plan, ” UCSD head 
See M. VOLLEYBALL , page 11
FENCING
Tritons Win Western Conference Title
Women defeat Division-I Stanford, Air Force, while men take second at invite. 
B Y  john stor y
associate sports editor
See FENCING , page 11PHOTO USED WITH PERMISSION FROM UCSD ATHLETICSWOMEN'S TENNIS
Tennis Winless in Irvine
UCSD goes 0–7 against UC Irvine in season opener. 
Failing to keep up with Division-
I opponents, the UCSD women’s 
tennis team was defeated 7–0 last 
Saturday in its first match of the 
regular season against UC Irvine at 
Anteater Stadium. The Tritons lost 
all six singles matches and two out 
of three of their doubles matches to 
open up their 2015 campaign with a 
0–1 record.
Not having seen action since an 
exhibition tournament last October, 
the Tritons appeared overwhelmed 
by their higher-ranked foes. The 
highlight of the tough day came for 
UCSD’s pair of sophomores Nava 
Nowamooz and Shannon Theisen, 
who managed to earn an impressive 
6–4 win against UC Irvine’s junior 
Sarah Gong and freshman Arisha 
Ladhani in the No. 2 slot.
Sophomore Britta Mosser and 
junior Kyra Scott fell together in the 
No. 1 doubles slot by a 6–3 score. The 
freshman duo of Jasmine Hosseini 
and Nousha Nowamooz struggled in 
a 6–1 defeat in the No. 3 doubles slot. 
In the singles, there were some 
very strong performances against formidable challengers. Mosser man -
aged to push her opponent senior 
Kat Facey to three sets in the No. 3 
singles slot, showing determination 
to take the second set 6–3 after losing 
the opening one 6–0. Mosser ulti -
mately fell in the final set, narrowly 
losing 6–4. 
In the No. 1 singles slot, Scott also 
played some great tennis, managing 
to take a 5–2 lead in the second set 
after losing the first 6–3 but eventu -
ally let the advantage slip away, los -
ing the set 7–5 in the final moments. 
Despite the sweep in their 
season opener, UCSD head coach 
Liz LaPlante expressed satisfaction 
and optimism in the Tritons’ effort 
against a superior opponent. 
“I was actually really pleased with 
the way the girls competed, ” LaPlante 
told the UCSD Guardian. “We were 
pleased to win the No. 2 doubles, and 
then Kyra had a very close singles 
match and Britta went three sets. 
Overall, I was very pleased. ”
The team will be looking to build 
upon its performance for the next 
match against another Division-I op -
ponent in Cal State Fullerton. While B Y  liam  leahy
staff writer             
See W. TENNIS , page 11M. Volleyball
M. Basketball
W. Basketball
M. Basketball
W. Basketball     1/22
     1/23
     1/23
     1/24
     1/24VS USC
VS Cal State San Bernardino
VS Cal State San Bernardino
VS Humboldt State
VS Humboldt StateUPCOMING
UCSD
GAMES