San Diego muralist Mario Torero 
returned to help touch up several 
of his previously painted murals 
at the Che Cafe facility on April 
16. Students and local community 
members also joined the event and 
created their own artwork.
The painting began at 10 a.m. 
and ended around 4 p.m., with 
approximately 30 people total in 
attendance. Among them were alumni, 
students and members from the 
community, including several children. 
The purpose of the event, according 
to C.H.E. Collective member, event 
organizer and Muir College junior 
Fabiola Orozco, was to demonstrate 
what she believes to be the students’ 
continued desire to maintain the 
legacy of the Che Cafe. 
Orozco also said that she chose 
to ask Torero specifically to return 
because he was responsible for 
painting the murals of Cesar Chavez, 
Angela Davis, Che Guevara, Karl Marx 
and Malcolm X on the exterior of the 
building in 1993. 
Orozco, who became involved 
with the C.H.E. Collective earlier this 
year, hopes to show the administration VOLUME 48, ISSUE 47  MONDAY, APRIL 20, 2015 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
SUN GOD UNDER 
THE INFLUENCE
AFTER YEARS OF RISING DRUG 
AND ALCOHOL-RELATED 
HOSPITALIZATIONS, UCSD 
CHANGES ITS POLICIES 
FOR SGF 2015.  THE UCSD 
GUARDIAN LOOKS AT THE NEW 
DRUG EDUCATION CAMPAIGN. 
QUICKT AKES
SPLIT SERIES IN HA YW ARD MERITS  of smartw a tches
Softball  suffers  setback Opinion ,  P age   4
sports,  P age  12
MONDAY
H 65 L 55TUESDAY
H 66 L 55
WEDNESDAY
H 66 L 54THURSDAY
H 66 L 55
FORECAST
VERBATIMfea tures,  P AGE  6
ART BY JENNA MCCLOSKEY
Looking for
OFF-CAMPUShousing?Look no further...
 Scan below
for moreinfo
PHILANTHROPY
A.S. Council Expends
Student Organization Funds
A.S. Vice President of Finance and Resources Igor 
Geyn announced that A.S. Council exhausted the 
$430,000 that it allocated toward student organi -
zations and programming events this year via an April 14 
letter to all of the student organizations registered with the 
Center for Student Involvement.
Though A.S. Council will not fund any programming 
events with application deadlines on or before May 1, 2015, 
organizations can still request A.S. funding for any events 
that take place next school year.
“ A.S. funding for these events has not been exhausted, 
and organizations are still expected to meet these deadlines 
with no exceptions, ” Geyn said in the letter.
According to Geyn, the Office of Student Organizations had already received over 450 requests for over $747,000 
in A.S. programming funding, compared to the previous 
year’s 439 requests for $601,000. However, A.S. Council did 
not approve all of these requests due to its Funding Guide 
policies. 
“While the new Funding Guide policies have allowed us 
to stretch these dollars as much as possible, ” Geyn said in the 
letter. “The sheer volume of requests has placed considerable 
strain on student organization funding. ”
Michael Wu, who is the music director of the UCSD 
Tritones, expressed his disappointment with A.S. Council 
and the financial situation that it placed his organization in. 
“We go in with the expectation that A.S. [Council] has 
planned things out and has enough funds for the school   B y  Jacky  to    Senior sTAFF WRITER 
See  FUNDING , page 3Local Artist 
Retouches 
Murals at 
Che CafeCULTURE
Mario Torero originally 
painted certain exterior walls 
of the facility with images of 
political figures in 1993.
B Y  Br ynna Bol t
Senior staff Writer
See C.H.E. , page 3
Students participated in Housing, Dining and Hospitality’s Walk the Party to raise money for the Triton Food Pantry. Events and 
activities were held around campus, starting in Revelle Plaza. Photo by Mark Tang / UCSD Guardian.
A.S. COUNCIL
UCSD’s Housing, Dining and 
Hospitality hosted the Walk the Block 
Party to raise funds for the Triton 
Food Pantry this past Saturday, April 
18. HDH partnered with Swipes for 
the Homeless, the San Diego Food 
Bank, the Inter-College Residents’ 
Association and A.S. Council.
Warren College junior and Swipes 
for the Homeless representative 
Chantal Chan said the Walk the Block Party enables students to help 
one another.
“ A lot of people don’t realize that 
donating just a little bit of dining 
dollars can help the community, ” Chan 
said. “Because Swipes for the Homeless 
is centered on campus, students can 
see their actions make a direct impact. ”
The event began at 9 a.m. in 
Revelle Plaza and continued until 
noon. UCSD a cappella group Duly 
Noted kicked off the event by singing 
the national anthem as students 
prepared to walk through Ridge 
Walk, picking up an assortment of free goodies along the way.
In the center of the plaza, 
students were able to watch a variety 
of performances from the UCSD 
Hawaiian Club and live music from 
the Deejay and Vinylphiles Club. 
Students could also enjoy free food 
and drinks from various sponsors like 
Guayaki Y erba Mate, General Mills, 
Mini Sliders and more. 
Aside from the food, there were 
sundry activities that students could 
take part in. Students could get their 
face painted, rock climb, attend yoga 
sessions and play “hamster” bowling — a game in which students climb inside 
a giant inflatable ball to knock down a 
set of pins.
In addition to raising funds, the 
Walk the Block Party also sought to 
raise awareness for the growing issue 
of food insecurity that many students 
face. According to Chan, nearly one-
fifth of UCSD students face such food 
challenges. 
To address this concerning statistic, 
the Triton Food Pantry was established 
to aid any student who may be HDH Walk the Block Party Raised Money for Triton Food Pantry
Student organizations and outside sponsors participated in the event, where students were able to donate dining dollars.
B Y   Andrew Chao
Contributing Writer
See  PARTY , page 3CAMPUS
The media should be 
publishing truthful and accurate 
information, but journalists 
do make mistakes ...  In a 
country where the press and 
the government are constantly  
scrutinized and criticized, it is 
important for journalists to have 
confidence in what they report 
and in their role in serving the 
public.”
-Rosina Garcia
EDITORIAL
Opinion, Page 4“2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 20, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG N EWS
DIGITAL MONKEYS By Jeff Lau
Returned Peace Corps Volunteer Diana Gomez will
discuss how to strengthen your resume and select an
assignment that fits your skills. You will also learn
valuable tips to guide you through the application process.Discover the Benefits  
of Peace Corps Service
Application Workshop  
University of California - San Diego
Friday, April 24
12 to 2 p.m.
Career Services Center
Horizon Room 
 
855.855.1961 | www.peacecorps.govLife is calling. How far will you go?
@ucsdguar dianFOLL OW US
& LIKE OUR
PHOTOS
 DO Y OU TWEET? WE DO!
@UCSDGuar dianYOUR NEWS...
NOW.
ucsdguardian.orgAssemblyman Roger Hernandez 
(D-West Covina) announced that 
Assembly Bill 837, which would cap 
the gross salaries of all University of 
California employees at $500,000, 
passed out of the state’s Committee 
on Higher Education on April 8. 
The bill is also meant to promote 
transparency by increasing public 
reporting surrounding the allocation 
of UC system compensation, 
including that toward paying Senior 
Management Group or Management 
and Senior Professional salaries.
The proposal to cap UC 
employees’ cash compensation at 
$500,000 could produce $80 million 
of savings annually, according to a 
press release from Hernandez’s office.
His office also stated that 
research conducted by the American 
Federation of State, County and 
Municipal Employees suggests 
that UC spending increased by 40 
percent between 2007 and 2013, while spending on the salaries of the 
UC system’s wealthiest employees 
simultaneously tripled. 
It is these employees that 
Hernandez believes the bill 
will target, with the intention of 
diverting financial pressure from 
taxpayers and students.
“Less spending on [the] UC 
[system]’s bloated executive ranks 
means more resources will be 
available for students, ” Hernandez 
said in his press release. “This bill 
is directed toward a very small 
percentage of UC employees that take 
up a large portion of the UC budget, 
student funds and taxpayer dollars. ”
 The press release goes on to cite 
the UC regents’ recent vote to hike 
tuition by 5 percent every year for 
the next five years. 
The University of California 
Office of the President issued a 
letter to Assemblyman and Chair 
of the Higher Education Committee 
Jose Medina (D-Riverside) stating 
its opposition to the bill on April 
1. Associate Vice President and 
Director of State Governmental Relations Steve Juarez, the author of 
the letter, wrote that compensation was 
necessary as a means by which to stay 
competitive as a university system.
“We share the desire for fair and 
appropriate compensation for our 
employees; however, we also have a 
responsibility to the state to ensure 
that the [University of California] 
is expertly managed to ensure it 
remains the finest public research 
university system in the world, ” 
Juarez said in his letter to Medina. 
Juarez went on to claim that 
of the UC employees who would 
be affected by the bill, 89 percent 
are either faculty or staff physicians 
who are part of the health sciences 
and provide clinical care at the 
University of California’s several 
teaching hospitals. The bill could 
severely undermine the UC system’s 
ability to attract what it considers 
individuals qualified to do this 
work, Juarez said. 
Juarez further claimed that 
compensation for employees is paid 
from a variety of sources. 
“For example, our medical centers and hospitals generate 
revenue that not only pays the 
salaries and compensation of all 
their staff but also contributes to 
and supports the health-sciences 
schools, ” Juarez said.
Javiera Cartagena, district director 
in the Office of Assemblyman 
Hernandez, told the UCSD Guardian 
that competitiveness is not necessarily 
an issue, as the UC system can be 
seen as attractive to employees for 
other reasons. 
“People are not only attracted to 
the UC [system] because of its salaries; 
the mission of the UC [system] is 
what makes it golden, ” Cartagena 
said. “Moreover, the generous pension 
benefits are held harmless by the 
provisions of this bill. ”
AB 837, which was first 
introduced in February, received 
bipartisan support from the 
Committee on Higher Education 
and will be passed to the Committee 
on Appropriations. CALIFORNIA
If passed, the bill would limit university employee compensation to $500,000 a year and could save $80 million annually. 
B Y  Br ynna Bol t
Senior Staff Writer
Br ynna Bol t  bbolt@ucsd.edu readers can contactState Higher Education Committee Approves UC Salary Cap Bill
struggling with food needs. In a 2013 
survey of UC students, results showed 
that nearly 25 percent of UCSD 
students “often” and “very often” chose 
to skip meals in order to save money. 
ICRA member and Revelle College 
sophomore Lynnay Consul said the 
event helps brings attention to the food security issue at UCSD.
“I think it’s really great to know 
what is happening. The Triton Food 
Pantry is a really great cause, but it 
is pretty small and tucked away into 
the [Original] Student Center, ” Consul 
said. “I think it’s important because we 
have so many food-insecure people on 
campus. It’s a really great opportunity 
to help them. ”Having opened this past January, 
the Triton Food Pantry operates on 
an honor system in which students 
can come in and receive free food 
without having to provide formal 
documentation of their food needs nor 
be subjected to invasive questioning. 
However, students will need to provide 
their student IDs and such trips to the 
pantry are limited to once per week. The Triton Food Pantry is 
currently funded through a grant by 
the Office of the Vice Chancellor of 
Student Affairs. The San Diego Food 
Bank also helps provide inventory for 
the pantry for a small fee. Philanthropic Event Brings Awareness to Food Insecurity Issues College Students Face 
▶ PARTY ,  from page 1
Andrew Chao  avchaoe@ucsd.edu readers can contactThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and 
Thursdays during the academic year by UCSD students 
and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this 
newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, 
without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2015, all 
rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible 
for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The 
views expressed herein do not necessarily represent 
the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of 
California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is 
funded by advertising. Wow, Marcus is almost 12!
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.orgBusiness Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Aleksandra Konstantinovic
Andrew E. Huang  
Taylor Sanderson
Tina Butoiu
Kriti Sarin
Charu Mehra
Cassia Pollock
Marcus Thuillier
John Story
Teiko Yakobson
Jacqueline Kim
Kyle Somers
Nilu Karimi
Siddharth Atre
Jonathan Gao
Joselynn Ordaz
Sherman Aline
Elyse Yang
Annie Liu
Rosina Garcia
Jennifer Grundman
Laura Chow
Vincent PhamEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
  
Associate News Editor
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Social Media Coordinator
Training and Development
Page Layout
Charu Mehra, Allison Kubo
Distribution
Christopher Graves, Josef Goodyear
Copy Readers
Andrew Chao, Caroline Lee, Sage Christian, Marissa Barber, 
Heejung Lim
Editorial Assistants
Shelby Newallis, Karly Nisson, Mario Attie, Katie Pottsthrough events such as Thursday’s 
mural painting that the Che Cafe is 
still significant on campus.
“The situation that the C.H.E. 
Collective is in now is that the 
administration argues that it is 
antiquated and nobody cares about 
this stuff anymore, ” Orozco told 
the UCSD Guardian. “But it’s not. 
I thought it would be cool to have 
Mario come back and revitalize 
something important. ”
Torero, who identifies himself 
as an “artivist, ” contributes to the 
San Diego area Chicano/Chicana 
grassroots movement through his 
artwork. His pieces include the 40 
Anos de Chicano Legacy mural 
located on the outside of Peterson 
Hall on UCSD’s campus and the 
numerous murals in the Chicano Park in Barrio Logan. 
In an interview with the 
Guardian, Torero said that he hopes 
to inspire action among younger 
generations through his teaching 
and activism.
“It brings me out when I see the 
energy of the youth standing up, 
taking action and being concerned 
about the world, ” Torero said. “I 
have to support that like I did 
originally with this [facility]. ”
Torero also spoke of the 
retouched mural of Angela Davis, 
whose presence at the university 
and influence as an activist inspired 
him to become interested in creating 
murals at the Che Cafe facility.
“Loving her as a sister, one of 
our own, who paved the way for us, ” 
Torero said. “Now that can continue. ”
Students continue to occupy the 
Che Cafe facility 24 hours a day, despite Vice Chancellor of Student 
Affairs Juan Gonzalez’s request for 
a voluntary evacuation by March 14. 
Orozco said it is unclear what 
will happen to the murals regardless 
of what will become of the space in 
the future. 
“I think in the future we could 
possibly talk about fixing up the rest 
of the murals, ” Orozco said. “ A lot of 
stuff is still being decided. ”
More events will be held at 
the Che Cafe in April and May, 
including a creative dance on April 
19, Stitch n’ Kvetch on April 23 and 
a dinner and movie night for the UC 
Liberation Front on April 24. Further 
information about upcoming 
events is featured on the Che Cafe 
Collective Facebook page. year, ” Wu told the UCSD Guardian. 
“They promised a realistic budget that 
would account for student organiza -
tion funding and they did not follow 
up on it. ”
Wu believes that A.S. Council 
should retrieve and use funds from 
its Mandated Reserves to continue 
funding student organizations for the 
remainder of the year.
“Last year’s council retrieved 
$60,000 from mandated reserves to 
fund student programming, which we 
thought was a really good, proactive 
stance, ” Wu said. “They have the pre -
cedence, and at the end of the day, 
they should’ve known better and they 
should’ve found solutions before it 
went into failure. ”
Geyn argues that pulling funds out 
of A.S. Council’s reserves would be 
irresponsible due its current financial 
circumstances. “Our mandate reserves are cur -
rently at $120,000, which is below the 
5-percent amount that A.S. [Council] 
should be at, ” Geyn told the Guardian. 
“Even a combination of over-spending 
in a couple of the different offices 
could have a major impact on the 
budget or could actually bankrupt the 
organization. ”
Though it was discussed at last 
week’s A.S. Council meeting, there was 
not an official motion to use its man -
dated reserves to continue funding 
student organizations. 
Moreover, Student Life Business 
Operations, which handles fund man -
agement and disbursement, discovered 
an additional $80,000 in the A.S. bud -
get a few weeks ago. According to 
Geyn, the SLBO initially overlooked 
these funds due to a clerical error.
Wu is skeptical about the discov -
ery of these funds and believes A.S. 
Council should be held responsible.
“How did all of a sudden $80,000 appear? That’s not just a simple 
accounting mistake. That’s a huge 
fuck-up that we have to drill you to 
get resolved, ” Wu said. “There is a clear 
lack of oversight in terms of account -
ability for our A.S. officers. ”
At last week’s meeting, A.S. Council 
voted not to allocate any of the new -
found $80,000 toward student pro -
gramming. 
In his letter, Geyn welcomed stu -
dent organizations to contact him 
about further information and assured 
that his office is doing what it can to 
support student organizations.
“ A.S. [Council] is working with 
other campus entities to learn about 
alternative sources of funding that we 
can recommend to your organizations 
in an effort to preserve your events and 
programs, ” Geyn said.N EWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 20, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
LIGHTS & SIRENSLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edu.
Friday, April 10
1:41 p.m.: Identity Theft
Victim was informed by the IRS 
that another person filed taxes 
under their name. Referred to Other 
Agency.
8:41 p.m.: Citizen Contact
A picture of a purge mask was 
found facing inside of room. 
Information Only.
Saturday, April 11
1:24 a.m.: Information
San Diego Police received report of 
a hit-and-run. The suspect vehicle 
was possibly on the UCSD campus. 
Information Only.
4:54 p.m.: Hazard Situation
Four subjects were reported 
sweeping on the rooftop of the Che 
Cafe. Checks OK.
Sunday, April 12
12:03 a.m.: Grand Theft
Missing property found and 
returned at Mandeville Auditorium. 
Cancelled before Dispatched.
Monday, April 13
8:57 a.m.: Injury
Y oung adult  female fell down 
half-flight of stairs, bled from chin. 
Transported to Hospital.11:28 a.m.: Disturbance
A young adult male was acting 
strangely and angry while holding 
a staff at the Structural & Materials 
Engineering Building. Closed by 
Adult Arrest.
11:06 p.m.: Injury
Several subjects jumped from a 
third-floor balcony at Tenaya Hall 
when an RSO attempted to make 
a marijuana contact. One male 
experienced a possible broken wrist 
and back injury. Transported to 
Hospital/Marijuana Impounded.
Tuesday, April 14
12:55 a.m.: Disturbance 
According to a CSO, there was a 
verbal fight at intersection, related 
to Tech N9ne concert. Crowd 
dispersed.
Wednesday, April 15
10 p.m. to 7 p.m.: Vandalism
Unknown person(s) scratched the 
hood of victim’s vehicle, costing 
$500. Report Taken.
9 p.m. to 6:10 p.m.: Petty Theft/
Tamper With Vehicle
Stolen catalytic converter, loss of 
$594. Report Taken.
— SIDDHARTH ATRE
Photo EditorStudent Life Business Operations Overlooked $80,000 in Funds
▶ FUNDING,  from page 1
T orero: I Will Continue to Support Youth Activism at the Che Facility
▶ C.H.E.,  from page 1JACKY TO  J6TO@ucsd.edu readers can contact
Br ynna Bol t  bbolt@ucsd.edu readers can contact
Follow us on Twitter
@UCSDGUARDIAN4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 20, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CHARU  MEHRA
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
QUICK TAKESFOLLOWING THE RELEASE OF APPLE’S OWN VERSION OF THE LATEST WEARABLE TECH TREND, SMART WATCHES, THE PURPOSE OF THIS PIECE OF 
TECHNOLOGY HAS BEEN THOROUGHLY EXAMINED AND QUESTIONED. THE GUARDIAN’S OPINION WRITERS TAKE ON THE TOPIC IN THIS WEEK’S QUICKTAKES.
Smart Watches Present Many Unique 
Advantages; Will Be Essential Accessory
The smartwatch will change your life, or so Apple and 
every other tech company says. Except that smartwatches 
are nothing short of inconvenient. To accomplish even 
the simplest of tasks for the watch, say, looking at the 
time, you would have to unlock the screen of the Apple 
watch. The newest Apple product looks amazing, as do 
the other smartwatches on the market, but, really, what 
good is another extremely pricey gadget that barely 
enhances the smartphone experience?
As CNN Money puts it, “It costs $350. That’s a lot 
of money to fork over for a device that adds a slight bit 
of convenience. It doesn’t do anything more than your 
iPhone does — it just allows you to do some iPhone 
functions on your wrist. ” Another review by Bloomberg 
Business confirms that “the watch is not life-changing. 
… It is a wonderful component of a big ecosystem that 
the company has carefully built over many years. ”
The watch functions more as a distraction than 
anything else. People will struggle a lot with the quantity 
of notifications popping up on the smallest of screens. 
It takes some effort to get basic information from the 
watch, like the time, which is already available on a 
smartphone anyway. It is not a timesaver like Apple’s 
advertising campaign promises. 
As the cherry on top, the watch and its poor battery 
life could just die out on users in the middle of the day, 
depending on individual usage. Now who would possibly 
want a watch that does not even give you the time after 
10 hours of use? The Bloomberg Business review takes 
it away: “It’s still another screen, another distraction, 
another way to disconnect, as much as it is the opposite. 
The Apple Watch is cool, it’s beautiful, it’s powerful and 
it’s easy to use. But it’s not essential. ”
—  MARCUS THUILLIER
Senior Staff WriterApple’s New Smart Watch Is a Waste of  
Time and Money for Unwitting Consumers
With Apple’s recent release of its own version of the 
smartwatch, many users, especially students, have begun 
to contemplate the usefulness of this device. According 
to Business Insider, smartwatches will likely account for 
70 percent of wearable device shipments by 2019. Despite 
seeming like a smartphone knockoff, this gadget has its 
own unique assets. No longer will students be shackled 
with complaints from pesky professors about reading text 
messages. During lectures, it will appear as if they are 
merely checking the time while they actually scroll through 
important notifications about the weather and how many 
emails they’ve received.
Even without all the procrastination-inducing perks, 
there are many other advantages to using a smartwatch. 
In an interview with Fast Company, Apple CEO Tim 
Cook claimed that his company will be the first to 
create a smartwatch that actually matters. The company 
has given ABC News a tour of its fitness test facility to 
understand the smartwatches’ impact on health. For 
students who are ardent athletes or just trying to get into 
shape, the smartwatch often comes with many fitness 
options, such as a pedometer for tracking steps, as well as 
sensors for heart rates and sleep patterns. 
Furthermore, public transportation and general means 
of traveling will be safer. Drivers can check directions 
with a simple glance at the GPS on their wrist instead 
of fiddling with a slippery phone, and it even minimizes 
the risk of being pickpocketed. When asked about the 
usefulness of the smartwatch, Cook said that none of 
Apple’s revolutionary inventions, such as the iPod and the 
iPhone, were perceived as an essential item upon release. 
While smartphones slip out of back pockets all the time, 
the smartwatch will remain on users’ wrists as a steady, 
reliable gadget. Although it may seem pointless to some, 
the smartwatch will soon be an essential tech accessory.
—  CASSIA POLLOCK
Associate Opinion EditorThe Apple Watch seems first and foremost to be a 
symptom of America’s “He With The Most Toys Wins” 
philosophy. However, introducing this device into the already 
cluttered world of personalized tech will likely have more 
consequences for its users than, say, the iPhone 800s (or 
whatever it is we’re on now). While some of these effects will 
be highly useful for consumers and app designers/developers, 
they also pose familiar threats to privacy, as well as the 
human ability to interface in the traditional sense of the word 
— i.e. with actual faces and not on FaceTime.
Myriad studies show that “smart tech” tends to leave 
many of its users in a constant state of distraction. In a study 
of smartwatch users across the globe, researchers at Cass 
Business School in London discovered that “heavy users 
of smart watches can develop a ‘phantom watch’ mentality, 
frequently checking their bare wrist even when they are 
not wearing the device. ” Although smartwatches may seem 
less intrusive than their smartphone counterparts, they 
arguably make it even easier for users to ignore real, physical 
interactions in favor of the flashing screens on their wrists. 
What’s gained in convenience can be lost in concentration 
and interpersonal competence.  
Furthermore, Apple advertises on its website that the 
watch will “measure all the ways you move … It even 
keeps track of when you stand up, and encourages you to 
keep moving. ” The device also contains four sensors that 
can measure the user’s pulse and heart rate. While the 
capacity to collect all this data opens many doors for health 
and fitness applications, it puts users at risk of privacy 
infringement. Unlike doctor’s records, the information 
collected by these applications has almost no regulatory 
protection in terms of privacy, and the apps themselves have 
varying levels of security. Ultimately, it will be the choice 
of the consumer whether or not the benefits of the Apple 
Watch outweigh the costs. 
—  HAILEY SANDEN
Senior Staff WriterNewest Member of  Wearable Tech Industry
Threatens Privacy and Lowers Attention Spans
Freedom of speech and of the press is the foundation 
of journalism. However, persons and companies 
have been potentially threatening these freedoms by 
requesting retractions for articles that are no longer relevant 
or newsworthy, according to the Columbia Journalism 
Review. The media is an entity that works toward informing 
and educating the public, not necessarily toward defending 
public actions. Just as the government cannot, by law, 
regulate or censor a media entity, neither should the public. 
Media sources should not feel obligated to retract or delete 
articles for the sake of others’ reputations unless there is a 
legal issue or a need for factual corrections. 
The Columbia Journalism Review reported that one 
woman who was reported on by the University of Southern 
California news website requested that a legitimate article 
about her be unpublished because she claimed that it was 
preventing her from getting a job. In cases like this, when 
someone is merely trying to save face, retractions should not 
be issued. It is not the job of the media to boost someone’s 
reputation. That  being said, the First Amendment Center 
claims that, while media can technically report and claim 
anything they want, they are not immune to punishment 
— they can be sued for libel if a story is incorrect or if they 
breach someone’s privacy. If this is the case, then retractions 
should be issued and corrections made. 
At the end of last year, Rolling Stone published an article 
about an alleged gang rape which sparked discussions 
nationwide regarding sexual assault awareness and 
prevention. After an investigation by the Columbia Graduate 
School of Journalism found out the story was false, Rolling 
Stone retracted the article and has been receiving criticism 
for its apparent lack of fact-checking and journalistic 
integrity. Bustle News asserts that, while it’s good this gang 
rape did not actually occur, Rolling Stone’s mishap will lead 
people to further question the validity of sexual assault 
stories. Journalists aren’t perfect people, so fact-checking 
and corroboration of claims should be taken very seriously, 
since the press is a widespread medium for informing The Right to Write
The foundation of  good journalism is based on our fundamental right to free speech and 
the ability to publish facts, even when the government or individuals might feel differently.
B Y ROSINA GARCIA  senior  Staff writer
▶ see RIGHTS  page 5OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 20, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
the public. In a perfect world, 
retractions should not have to 
be made. But when they are, 
journalists need to verify and stand 
by their retractions. 
The Pacific Standard reported 
that the Associated Press was called 
out for a mistake in one of its 
articles, but instead of retracting 
the incorrect parts and issuing a 
correction, AP said, “[We] stand by 
the stories. ” Although it’s admirable 
for AP to stand by what it’s 
published, in this case, a retraction 
should have been issued to 
address the incorrect information. 
Y es, journalists should stand by 
what they write, but they should also admit when they’ve made a 
mistake and make the necessary 
corrections. The media should be 
publishing truthful and accurate 
information, but journalists do 
make mistakes. As long as they 
make the necessary corrections in 
light of inaccuracies, they shouldn’t 
make retractions simply to appease 
everyone. It’s a delicate balance.
In a country where the press 
and the government are constantly  
scrutinized and criticized, it is 
important for journalists to have 
confidence in what they report and 
in their role in serving the public. 
The Supreme Court case New Y ork 
Times Co. v. Sullivan defends the 
freedom of the press and should 
be the gold standard for all media sources that are questioning 
whether or not to retract an article. 
The summary of the decision states 
that “the First Amendment protects 
the publication of all statements, 
even false ones, about the conduct 
of public officials [or other entities] 
except when statements are made 
with actual malice [with the intent 
to defame or hurt someone’s 
reputation] (with knowledge 
that they are false or in reckless 
disregard of their truth or falsity). ”
 If it’s true and if it’s newsworthy, 
then there’s no reason not to report 
something. 
Freedom of  Press Balances Quality Journalistic Fact-Checking
▶ RIGHTS  from page 4
WORLDFRONT WINDOW By David Juarez
GOT ISSUES?
BE HEARD
BY YOUR PEERS!SEND YOUR 
LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
readers can contact
Rosina  Garcia   RMG008@UCSD.EDU6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 20, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
TEIKO Y AKOBSON
features@ucsdguardian.org
Marijuana
16.5%In the very first issue of the UCSD Guardian — back in 1967 when it was called the Triton 
Times — a dean and provost took a section to condemn the use of LSD and marijuana, 
saying, “The law is unambiguous and offers a straightforward answer to those who ask the 
difference between using alcohol and marijuana or LSD: incarceration. ” The administration’s 
attitude toward drug use has remained negative since then; however, its message is changing 
into one that promotes safety with alcohol and drug use, rather than complete abstinence.
One of UCSD’s more prolific drug-related tragedies happened last year at the Sun God Festi -
val when Revelle College junior Ricardo Ambriz died after the concert from an overdose. He had 
taken a large dose of 5-ADP , a derivative of MDA. UCSD mourned his death by lowering the flag 
in Revelle Plaza to half-mast. It has almost definitely been a factor in the campus’ increased focus 
on drug safety and education.
According to Juan Gonzalez, the Vice Chancellor of Student Affairs, the campus adminis -
tration and related bodies plan on approaching the drug and alcohol use at Sun God Festival 
through more education about safety.
“Health and safety problems associated with the Sun God Festival have increased significantly 
in the last several years, ” Gonzalez told the UCSD News Center. “This year, we made a number 
of changes to the event to reduce risky behavior and have increased education and programs 
around the festival that focus on drug and alcohol safety. ”
One of the measures that campus communities have taken is displaying ampersands around 
campus to promote the Stay with Me Campaign. Stay with Me, which was created by the Office of 
the VCSA, Student Health & Well-Being and A.S. Concerts and Events, among others, promotes 
safe drug and alcohol use as opposed to abstinence.
Eleanor Roosevelt College senior Ryan Perez, an elected campuswide senator to the 2015–16 
A.S. Council, gave his opinion on drug education at UCSD.
“There was a shift from abstinence to harm reduction. It’s happening globally, and as far as 
we can tell, research shows that it works, ” Perez told the UCSD Guardian. “People are going to 
participate in whatever they want to participate in. They’re going to do whatever they want with 
their bodies. The best we can do is educate them as much as we can so that they can make smart 
decisions about what to do with their bodies. ”
Stay with Me is going to be screening a 2014 documentary about festival drug use on Apr 24 
at Price Center Theater. The documentary — called “What’s in My Baggie?”  — focuses on the 
need to chemically test drugs to confirm what they are before ingesting them. A drug testing 
organization called the Bunk Police are featured in the film, as they show festival-goers that the 
drugs they were intending to take were often not what they paid for. Commonly, people who 
intended to purchase MDMA were sold bath salts or other more dangerous drugs instead. The 
film’s messages about the need for drug testing were also mentioned in the video that students 
needed to watch in order to register for Sun God Festival 2015, a point which has not been made 
in the past around the time of Sun God Festivals. 
AVP Concerts and Events Seraphin Raya listed some more specifics about drug and alcohol safety.
“ Advice I have for students would include ensuring that they always have their friends’ phone 
numbers, ” Raya told the Guardian. “Not going past their limits is key. If drugs are involved, stu -
dents need to [make] sure they are tested. There are test kits available online, and they certainly 
help, but in no way do they guarantee safety. When students work out their plans for Sun God 
[Festival], they need to eliminate the unknown variables and make sure [they] plan ahead. ”
Whether or not it was brought about as a result of Ambriz’s death, the discussion about drugs 
this year at UCSD has both become louder in relation to that of alcohol, and its tone has shifted 
toward safety and education rather than abstinence. The campaign’s effectiveness has yet to be 
seen, but many students and administrators are hopeful.Talking About Pills
Illicit Drug Use Statistics Alcohol Use Statistics
Statistics courtesy of UCSD Student Health and Well-Being Survey Spring 201429%70%
DRANK ALCOHOL WITHIN 
THE PAST MONTH
HAD FIVE OR MORE
 IN ONE SITTINGMDMA
2.6%
Methamphetamines
1.3%
Hallucinogenics
1%
Sedatives
1%The UCSD Guardian investigates the 
changing views on campus substance abuse.
written by Kyle Somers Associate A&E Editor  // Illustration by Jenna McCloskey
Design by Sherman Aline  Associate Design Editor & Allison Kubo Designer  
Readers can contact Kyle Somers at
ksomers@ucsd.eduFEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 20, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
Statistics courtesy of UCSD Student Health and Well-Being Survey Spring 2014
UCSD is full of little treasures buried throughout its far-reaching, 2,000-acre campus. There’s the oddly amus -
ing “Stars Wars” door hidden behind the Visual Arts Building that makes a warped, light saberish noise when 
you kick it exactly in the right spot (marked vividly by an oval of missing paint). Sitting quietly next to Center 
Hall, there’s the Friends of the International Center resale shop, which, behind its pillars of flashy blouses out front, often 
houses lab coats and safety goggles for as cheap as $5.
But the number of these treasures has been dwindling steadily as the years go by. Marching in line behind the closure 
of the Crafts Center, the cover-up of Graffiti Hall and the ongoing battle to evict the C.H.E. Cafe, Porter’s Pub will be the 
next UCSD treasure on its way out — this time to the tune of farewells from students, graduate students, alumni and staff 
members alike. 
Nestled within the forest of enchanting eucalyptus trees, Porter’s Pub lives at the heart of the Original Student Center, 
where it joins arms with surrounding student co-ops in preserving some of the last independent business spirit left 
on campus. The pub was initially student-operated: Robert “Rob” Porter, a UCSD alumnus and the pub’s namesake, 
established the venue in 1993 and managed it alongside his student employees for 15 years. By the end of the 2000s, the 
reins had been turned over to Stephen Lawler, Porter’s friend, whose investment had saved the pub from collapsing under 
expensive renovation demands from university administration.
Alongside organizations like the General Store and the Food Co-op, the pub has brought the campus its own 
flavor — the original kind of flavor you get when you informally mix multiple streams of soda together at the soda 
fountain; the end result is not the most orthodox product, but it can be surprisingly delightful, and its formula is one 
that can’t be recreated.
The same can be said for the management of Porter’s Pub, which many customers insist is integral to the pub’s homey 
atmosphere and welcoming environment.
“Stephen brings a different flavor here, and I think that deserves to be shown, ” Erik Rodriguez, a postdoctoral scholar 
in biochemistry and a regular Porter’s customer, said. “None of us are flawless, and none of us can be perfect at all times. 
Stephen tries his best, but he cares about everybody. ”
Rodriguez is one of the most commonly sighted customers at Porter’s Pub — the employees consider him family. His 
warm presence and jovial attitude draw many one-time visitors to the back patio of the pub, where the motto is, “Y ou 
always have friends in the corner. ”
“I met all my good friends here, ” Rodriguez said with a grin. “I’ll just go up to people and say, ‘My friend just got 
married, and I need new friends. ’ That’s how I’ll introduce myself. … As long as you’re a good person, you can hang out 
with us. Everybody deserves to be here. Everybody deserves to be talked to and to be treated nicely, and there’s no bad 
feelings here. ”
Like many of the other regulars, Rodriguez values Porter’s Pub for being an open social forum inside a notoriously 
unsocial campus. Inside the pub, campus members can meet at the intersection of their communities and shed their 
distinguishing demographic labels for the sake of good conversation. There are few other places on campus, customers 
say, that allow such freedom.
“ A lot of people wouldn’t meet as many friends if it weren’t for this place, ” Rodriguez said. “For me, I’m a postdoc, and 
I wouldn’t randomly go up to people in Price Center and start talking to them. A lot of people don’t even know what a 
postdoc is. But here, I’ll hear people talking about science and think, ‘Oh, I can talk to you about that. ’”
“Y ou go to The Loft or Round Table [Pizza] if you want to drink booze, ” chemical engineering junior Michael Afzali 
added. “Y ou go to Porter’s because you want to drink booze, and you want to have a real conversation — real stuff. Science 
or math, something constructive. ”
Economics and history fifth-year student and Porter’s employee Trevor Holleron began visiting Porter’s Pub regularly 
in the early years of his UCSD education, but his sentiments toward it became stronger when a recent hardship struck and 
left him in an uphill battle for support. His friends at the pub were the ones that pulled him through.
“I remember the time Stephen gave me a job, ” Holleron said. “My dad was in the process of dying, and I needed a job 
to pay for [his cremation]. I was all by myself. ... [Stephen] was like, ‘Y ou need a job? Can you work hard? Can you put in 
the hours? Okay, yeah, sure. ’ And I remember he gave me a hug, and I didn’t want a hug, but still he gave me one. … He’s WRITTEN BY TEIKO YAKOBSON // FEATURES EDITOR
▶ PORTERS  on page 8PHOTO BY SIDDHARTH ATRE // PHOTO EDITOR
After 22 years of serving our campus, Porter’s Pub
is closing its doors on June 30 of this year.8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 20, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEA TURES
ACCB, THE OUTREACH COORDINATOR DEPT., & THE VILLAGE RAs PRESENT
WORKSHOPHOUSINGOFF -CAMPUS
TUESDAY, APRIL 21
5PM - 6:30PM • THE VILLAGE WEST B2 CONFERENCE ROOM
Come hear about Tenant Law and 
find out more about the communities near UCSD as well as tips for living off campus.
*FREE PIZZA WILL BE PROVIDED
FOR MORE INFORMATION,
PLEASE CONTACT UCSDACCB@GMAIL.COMTHINKING ABOUT LIVING
OFF-CAMPUS? 
LA JOLLA INSTITUTE NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
DRAFT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT
OUTPATIENT PAVILION
Wednesday, May 20, 2015 at 6:00 p.m.
UCSD The Ida and Cecil Green Faculty ClubThe University of California, San Diego (UCSD) is the lead agency for the Outpa-
tient Pavilion (OPP) project. The proposed OPP would consist of a three-story 
facility with a basement that would house hospital-licensed services to support the 
existing Thornton Hospital and Jacobs Medical Center.  The OPP would include 
approximately 156,000 gross square feet (GSF) of new construction, including 
operating rooms, outpatient care bays, clinical facilities, patient intake facilities, staff 
support spaces, and mechanical/electrical facilities. The proposed OPP would 
provide pain management, urology, orthopedics, spine, sports medicine, and breast 
clinics. In addition, the proposed project would provide outpatient, orthopedic and 
breast imaging, as well as rehabilitation facilities.
The overall limits of work for the proposed project encompass approximately 4.1 
acres on the east campus Health Sciences Neighborhood. This project site includes 
the project development area and the construction staging area. The project site is 
largely developed with a surface parking lot (Campus Lot P-751).  Access to the 
project site would be available from Campus Point Drive and Medical Center Drive.  
The proposed project would also include landscape and hardscape areas; a OPP 
Plaza, an extension of Health Sciences Walk, south meadow/therapy garden, and 
Medical Center Drive south entry (a semi-private entrance to the OPP Building for 
all patients, including athletic physical therapy).  The project would seek to achieve 
Leadership in Energy Efficient Design (LEED) Silver rating from the USGBC.  A 
public hearing to take public comment on the Draft EIR will be held at the time and 
place described below.
Enter the UCSD Campus via Muir College Drive and follow the signs to the 
Faculty Club parking lot P206.  Park in spaces marked “Reserved for Faculty 
Club”.  Enter the building on the west side and ask the receptionist for a parking 
pass to place on your car dashboard. The hearing will be held in the Faculty 
Club’s Seuss Library. Directions can be found at
http://facclub.ucsd.edu/mod_AboutUs/Directions.aspx 
Written and oral statements from interested persons or groups will be accepted at 
the hearing for entry into the administrative record.  A transcript of the hearing 
will be included in the Final EIR.  Copies of the Draft EIR may be viewed at: 
http://physicalplanning.ucsd.edu/environmental/pub_notice.html
or by contacting the UCSD Physical & Community Planning Office, 9500 Gilman 
Drive,  La Jolla, CA  92093-0074, (858) 534-5352.  Public review of the Draft EIR 
will extend from April 16 to June 1, 2015.  Any comments regarding the accuracy 
of the project EIR should be directed to the UCSD Physical & Community 
Planning Office at the above address.always made sure I’m taken care of. ”
Holleron added how special his experiences were as 
an undergraduate.
 “Y ou know how UCSD is, ” he said. “It feels like you’re 
suffocated by the academic focus, and what’s ironic is that 
you come to Porter’s Pub at the end of the day and you still 
end up in an academic atmosphere, but at the same time it’s 
chill, not judgmental and has a free-thinking vibe. ”
Respect and adoration for Lawler is the paean sung 
throughout the pub. From throwing birthday parties for 
security guards to inviting isolated researchers over to his 
home for Thanksgiving, the customers recounted myriad 
instances of Lawler giving back to the UCSD community, 
particularly to groups who struggle to find inclusion else -
where. One of those groups is the student veterans. 
“There is not much support for the veteran population 
on campus, ” Holleron, who has also served in the armed 
forces, explained. 
On Thursdays, however, veterans are given a free lunch 
at Porter’s Pub.
Other student groups have also found refuge within the 
pub, including organizations like The Graduate Student As -
sociation and the Brewing Club, seeking a convenient spot 
to hold meetings. Circle K has used the location multiple 
times to prepare for its “PB&J for the Homeless” events. 
Otherwise, students come frequently to study during finals.
“[Lawler is] not even making money [off of these 
groups] because they’re not buying beer most of the 
time, but he allows them to do [their events] here, ” Ro -
driguez said. “He does a lot of [charity] events here, but 
people don’t see it. ”
Rodriguez recalls one of his favorite events to be the 
Thrift Trunk Show, which brought together several vendors 
at Porter’s Pub to sell thrifted apparel at discounted prices. 
He also mentioned karaoke nights, movie nights, dances, 
concerts and open mic nights as some of the many events 
the pub hosts, many of which allow students to display 
more experimental work with fewer restrictions than more 
“mainstream” stages.
But Porter’s Pub is more than a stage. It’s more than a 
few tables to sit at and play cards on. It’s more than a con -
venient stop to grab a beer between classes. For its regulars, 
the pub is a home, a welcoming social and cultural experi -
ence that continues to draw them in over and over again. 
Meet Brandon Mosley — or if you’ve ever been to Por -
ter’s Pub after sundown, you probably already have. Mosley 
is the vivacious evening bartender, who, despite often work -ing shifts alone, tries to engage the entire pub’s clientele in 
conversation with his outgoing spirit.
“I talk to anybody, ” Mosley said. “It’s part of my job to 
talk to people, to get to know what kind of beer they like to 
drink, to get to know what type of food they like to have, to 
get to know where they like to sit in the pub. I’ll even clear 
out a seat … and some of them probably come in maybe 
only five times in a year. ”
Mosley has been working at Porter’s Pub for two years, 
but his bartending career began 10 years ago. Hailing 
from New Y ork City, Mosley has worked for high-profile 
individuals like P . Diddy at Justin’s Restaurant and Ashton 
Kutcher at The Geisha House.
And yet, he contends that working at Porter’s Pub is the 
best job he’s ever had and finds it hard to face the reality of 
leaving soon.
“There’s something special about this place, ” Mosley 
said. “ A two-person dinner has never been less than 
$200 anywhere else I’ve ever worked, and, of course … 
[Porter’s Pub] is a lower level of industry than I’m used 
to dealing with. However, the people I meet here are so 
interesting. I’ve met some of the smartest in the whole 
world just working here. ”
Part of what makes the pub special to Mosley is the 
dedication from the management to offer the regular 
customers a place to go. Mosley explained that, despite 
exceptionally slow business when most students are on 
break, Lawler still keeps the pub open in the summer. 
“[This] is serious because he’s losing money for 
two months out of the whole summer in order for our 
dedicated customers to have a place to go, ” Mosley said. 
“ And you’re not going to find that type of dedication no 
matter who else you bring in here. That’s why people 
have that family-type feeling about this place. ”
Until its lease formally expires on June 30, Porter’s 
Pub will carry on with business as usual, but Mosley, 
Rodriguez and others say that stopping by once or 
twice is not enough to fully understand the phenom -
enon at the pub. They say it’s not the best moments 
that stick in their minds — it’s the continuity of always 
having a place to feel welcomed.
“It’s countless nights of people drinking beer, count -
less nights of people studying for finals, countless night of 
people partying, countless nights of concerts, in order for 
you to get the gist of what’s going on here, ” Mosley said.
Regular Customers Recount Their Best Memories at the Pub
▶ PORTERS  from page 7
readers can contact
Teiko  Y akobson    syakobso@ucsd.edu PHOTO BY UZAIR MOHAMMAD / GUARDIAN
PHOTO BY SARAH PARK / GUARDIANPHOTO BY JACI LERNER / GUARDIAN10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 20, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
CLASSIFIEDS$
Guar dian Classi/f_ieds ar e FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifieds
crossword
ACROSS
1 Hippie adornments
6 Weaponless self-defense
10 Semi driver, at times
14 Ancient people of south-central 
Mexico
15 François’s “with”
16 Neutrogena rival
17 Salem trials crime
19 All in a huff
20 Shouts to a matador
21 Convertibles, slangily
23 More nimble
26 Worked in a soup kitchen
27 Corp. head
28 “Our Gang” dog
30 North Pole crew
33 VCR button
34 Articulated
35 Remove from text
36 Clumsy vessels
38 Jeweler’s glass
40 Dept. of Labor agency
41 Pity-evoking quality
43 Photos, briefly
45 Met, as a poker bet
46 Moral principle
47 Porterhouse, e.g.
48 Doe in “Bambi”
49 Surround, as with a circle of light
51 “Believe It or Not” guy
53 1996 loser to Bill Clinton
55 “M*A*S*H” Emmy winner for acting, 
writing and directing
56 Childlike race in “The Time Machine”
57 Press suppression
62 Smelter’s waste
63 Dian Fossey subjects
64 Chicago hub
65 Makes doilies
66 Da’s oppositeDOWN
1 Gift adornment
2 Inventor Whitney
3 No. on a receipt
4 Fake drake, e.g.
5 Hauls with effort
6 Where pickles are packed
7 Charlottesville inst.
8 Offset, as expenses
9 Square dance group
10 Rocker Elvis
11 Aorta, for one
12 1870s Dodge City VIP
13 Deli loaves
18 Trix and Kix
22 Elation
23 Predicament
24 Study intently
25 Shake things up
26 Set the stage for
29 Pedro’s uncle
31 Natural gas component
32 Shipping route
35 “The Munsters” actress Yvonne
37 Galas
39 Pizzeria offering
42 Cinco y tres
44 Vagrants’ hangout
47 Inclined to doze
50 Highway through the Yukon
52 Old Turkish VIP
53 Second to none
54 Earthen stewpot
55 Type of coach: Abbr.
58 Society page word
59 Crone
60 Vexation
61 Word before seBIKES
Jamis Xenith T1 Triathlon Bike, Carbon Bicycle 
- $1450. This bike only has about 180 miles on 
it and is in exceptional condition. I used it in a 
couple of sprint triathlons, and it was a great 
bike! Size is listed as Medium on the bike. 
Listing ID: 138356005 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Northrock XC6 Mountain Bike - $210. Medium 
frame. Shimano components (24 speed). Disk 
brakes! Front fork suspension. Fantastic con -
dition. Hasn’t been ridden much! Listing ID: 
138356003 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
Women’s Tunturi 500r Road Bike - $190. Selling 
my Tunturi 500R Road bike. Has 48 cm frame, 
twelve speed, Suntour components - Suntour 
2000 Derailers, Sakai GXC Crank, Ayara 27 
wheel set, brand new tires, Cro-mo main 
tubes, nice comfortable saddles. Rides and 
shifts great. I’m moving and can’t take it with 
me. Listing ID: 138356000 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
ELECTRONICS
32” LCD 1080p TVs Used in Perfect Working 
Condition - $250. TVs on sale. 32” with HDMI 
1080p. Have few with built in DVD player. Listing ID: 140433211 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Nikon Coolpix AW110 Water Proof Shock 
Proof GPS Camera - $349. Nothing like it. GPS. 
Wifi. Camera video. Water proof, shock proof. 
Listing ID: 140433210 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Westcott Scrim Jim Large Reflector Kit-72”x72” 
with 2-Universal Clamp - $450. Bought new 
last year and never used. The frame is made 
out of light-weight aircraft aluminum. The kit 
includes a silver/white reversible, reflective 
fabric and a 3/4-stop white diffusion fabric. 
Modular construction allows you to create 3 
easy-to-handle frame sizes. The unique modu -
lar design allows for easy portability as well 
as quick set-up and take-down. Suited for 
outdoor use where wind is a factor. Listing ID: 
140101275 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
FURNITURE
New JANUS et Cie Koko II Mesh Chaise Lounge 
Chair - $550. It’s a fantastic high-quality lounge 
chair. It’s a dark grey frame with a matching 
dark grey vinyl mesh and has wonderful wood 
accents on the arms. When fully reclined, this 
chair offers 77” of relaxing space. 30” wide arm 
to arm and stands at 20” from ground to top of 
arms. Listing ID: 140101299 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
t
your vision,
our missi on.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom a pparel to 
promote your student 
organiza tion with Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!Nice Looking Sectional Patio Set on Sale - 
$1060. Inexpensive patio furniture sets. Lawn 
furniture cushions. Listing ID: 140101293 at 
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
High End Deco Iron Mirror - The mirror is as 
new, never used. The mirror has a rust finish, 
matte black and washed rust. The mirror is 
new, never used. Pick up or shipping company 
only. Retail $3600. Our price $1500. Sale price 
$1000. Listing ID: 140101286 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
asgraphicstudioApply to
asgraphicstudio@ucsd.edu
*include resume & design samples/ portfolio
graphic
artistswantedgraphic
artistswanted
.com/ucsdguardianCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 20, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
WHAT’S IN MY BAGGIE?FILM SCREENING AND Q&A
PC THEATERFRI, APR 24 • 6pmTahrirCAMPUS
CALENDAR
APR 20 - APR 262015 POWERED BY THE CHANCELLOR’S OFFICE AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guar dian
Calendar
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar @
ucsdgu ardian .orgMON4.20 WED4.22 TUE4.21
11am
ART AND SOUL: RECYCLED BOTTLE PLANTERS 
- THE ZONE
Help us celebrate earth day with recycled bottle 
planters! This craft is a creative way to reuse plastic bottles in a fun and eco-friendly way! Materials will be provided, space is limited. Be sure to come early 
because first come, first served. A big thank you to 
Roger's Garden for hosting this workshop and for providing succulents!
2pm
HUNGRY FOR HEALTHY: KALE, BARLEY AND 
FETA SALAD - THE ZONE
Come join us for Kale, Barley, & Feta Salad hosted 
by the Student Health Services Dietitian! Materials 
and ingredients are provided. Hungry For Healthy is 
a free program here at The Zone, but space is 
limited, so it is first come, first served.
7pm
U.S.-CUBA RELATIONS IN TRANSLATION - 
GREAT HALL
On December 17, 2014, President Obama 
announced that the United States would seek to 
normalize diplomatic relations with and ease travel 
restrictions on Cuba, the most significant policy 
change in 50 years. Prof. Richard Feinberg from UCSD's School of International Relations & Pacific 
Studies will lead a discussion on the current and 
future improvements of U.S.-Cuba relations. This 
event is free and open to the public, so invite your 
friends!11am
EARTH DAY FAIR - PC PLAZA
Price Center Plaza outside the Sustainability Resource Cent
3pm
GENERAL FLOATEES TRAINING- OPEN TO ALL 
STUDENTS! - THE ZONE
Come learn how to be a Floatie!This fun and 
informative training focuses on keeping you and your friends afloat this Spring Quarter. Participants will learn about: High risk drinking & how to identify high 
risk situations, what alcohol does to the body & how 
behavior is affected, tips to plan ahead for a fun and safe time at any event or party, what to look for with alcohol poisoning, drug overdose, or both, and the reality of pure□ molly
6:15pm
TAKE BACK THE NIGHT - PC PLAZA
UC San Diego's commemoration of Sexual Assault 
Awareness Month culminates with Take Back the 
Night, which is recognized annually with hundreds of 
events held in over 30 countries.
SUN4.26
9:30am
ANNUAL FREE CLINIC 5K PHUN RUN - UCSD 
SKAGGS SCHOOL OF PHARMACY
Come join us in our 10th annual 5k fundraiser! All 
proceeds from the event benefit the UCSD Student Run Free clinics which provide essential free-of-cost health care to San Diego's under-served community.Registration is only $20 and includes a free t-shirt, prizes for winners, silent auction, registration packet including bib, coupons, and other exciting freebies.FRI4.24
10am
FITNESS ZONE: BLT
BLT: Butt, Legs, Tummy. Shape up your whole body, particularly those crucial BLT areas! This class will 'attack' these spots by training the core and lower body for increased strength and muscle tone, 
combined with fun cardiovascular exercises. This is a 
great way to burn those calories! Led by FitLife instructor Olga Lazitski and Stephanie Asiddao.
12pm
GENDER BUFFET SERIES - WOMEN’S CENTER
Shades of No. Join us for the first Gender Buffet of the quarter. SARC/CARE will be coming to facilitate a 
conversation about consent and how we can 
integrate consent into our relationships.
3pm
MUIRSTOCK 2015 - MUIR QUAD
The annual Muir College festival is near! Join us at Muir College to celebrate one of Muir's largest and longest standing traditions. Save the date and come enjoy free food and activities such as henna, tie 
dying, and more! In previous years, artists have 
included Imagine Dragons, The Cab, Justin Nozuka, 
and various student bands. Admission is free and the 
event is open to all students with a valid UCSD ID! 
Free BBQ sponsored by ICRA.
6pm
WHAT’S IN MY BAGGIE? FILM SCREENING AND 
Q&A - PC THEATER
Join UC San Diego's first-of-its-kind open, 
uncensored drug discussion with What's In My Baggie filmmakers, UCSD Police Dept., Say San Diego, and CAPS. 10am
FITNESS ZONE: ANIMAL FLOW - THE ZONE
Animal Flow: Continuous body weight movements to improve strength, stamina, mobility, and agility. This animal instinct workout is a new and fun way to bring 
out your playful side while improving your body's 
function. Led by FitLife instructor Cassey Marsh.
4pm
SAY IT. DO IT. REACH IT. - GOVERNANCE 
CHAMBERS, PC EAST, LEVEL 4
Where do you want to be in 5 years? What do you 
want to do with your degree? This workshop will be aimed to help students achieve their goals by setting reasonable objectives and working towards them 
day-by-day. They will leave feeling empowered and 
ready to take on their wildest dreams.
5pm
OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING WORKSHOP - VILLAGE 
WEST CONFERENCE ROOM
Want to live off-campus, but not sure where to live? 
Questions about renting in San Diego? Come to this workshop to find out about rental options around UCSD, hear pros/cons of living off-campus from 
current students, and learn about renters rights from 
Student Legal Services! 
SAT4.25
7am
OUTBACK ADVENTURES: ROCK CLIMB MISSION 
GORGE - OUTBACK ADVENTURES
Mission Trails Regional Park is a local hot spot for 
rock climbing and is only 20 minutes from campus! The climbing is excellent with routes for both first-time and experienced climbers. Our experienced 
and supportive guides will lead you through a fun 
and challenging progression of climbs throughout the day. Knots, rope handling, belaying, safety, and climbing technique will be covered. All climbing equipment is provided. Come spend the day with us 
on the rocks! 
10am
CATCH A RIDE TO CHICANO PARK DAY - 
CHICANO PARK
Come catch a free ride to the 45th annual Chicano 
Park Day celebration! Be a part of communities coming together! Experience traditional music, live bands and dance including one of the most beautiful 
performances of Aztec Indigenous dance and several 
ballet folklorico troupes. Band performances this year include: Goma Sound, Chocolate Revolution, Liber'Arte, Brown P & SMK, Generations Blvd, Sure 
Fire Soul EnsembleTHU4.23
9am
SVRC: LISA LINARES UCSD CERTIFYING 
OFFICIAL - STUDENTS VETERANS RESOURCE CENTE
Learn about financial aid available to veterans and 
their families with Lisa Linares. Location: Old Student Center, Room 217
12pm
OUT AND PROUD WEEK - LGBT RESOURCE 
CENTER
Out and Proud Week presents the largest 
opportunity for community visibility on the UC San Diego campus. It is a week-long group celebration 
and private reflection on the achievements of 
LGBT-identified students, staff, and faculty and our allies. It is also a time for public awareness and discussion of current LGBT issues on the state and national levels. 
3pm
MINDFULNESS FOR DAILY LIVING - MURRAY’S 
PLACE, STUDENT HEALTH SERVICES
Join us as we focus on mindfulness meditation 
practices to help you have more well-being and contentment in your life, as well as less stress and anxiety. This group is a drop-in format. You can come to all 8 sessions or any one session. Wear comfortable clothes. No prior experience with meditation is necessary!
JOIN  THE
CONVERS ATION
staywith me.ucsd.eduWIN SHARE
a free shirt or t ank.
Winner  chosen daily .  
staywithmeucsd
SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 20, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
ique Hermann. This time, however, 
UCSD answered back, with senior 
attacker Jolene Guiliana putting up 
the first goal on the scoreboard for 
UCSD off an assist from sophomore 
attacker Lani Tittle. Unfortunately 
for UCSD, Hermann scored again 
for SDSU in the final minute of 
the third period, strengthening the 
Aztecs’ lead. 
The Tritons came out with a 
vengeance in the final quarter, play -
ing stellar offense and defense. They kept the Aztecs scoreless in the 
final fourth period and managed to 
rally behind two goals, both scored by 
junior attacker Laurel Kistler. Despite 
the impressive performance from the 
team, the Tritons could not achieve 
enough to come back and ended up 
falling short with the final count end -
ing at 6–3, in favor of SDSU. 
“I just don’t know, the cage just 
wasn’t our friend today on the offen -
sive side; we couldn’t put it anywhere 
near there, ” UCSD head coach Brad 
Kreutzkamp told the UCSD Athlet -ics Department. “Well, this [game] 
leaves us, leaves the team, knowing 
that they have some work to do. We 
can’t show up and just have goals score 
themselves … Hopefully, they’ll learn 
from it. ”
Following this tough loss, the 
Triton women will head up to Geneva, 
Ohio next weekend, April 24 to 
26, to compete in the upcoming 
Western Water Polo Association 
Championship.junior Haley Libuit, who is al -
ready the author of a provisional 
qualifying throw, bested her mark 
from last week’s meet with a throw 
of 137 feet. 
In a similar fashion, the Triton 
4-x-100 relay team, consisting of 
sophomore Emmanuel Elijah and 
freshmen Justin Hunter, Vince 
Hernandez and Paul Doan, ran 
exceptionally well, finishing in 
second place with a time of 41.89 
seconds. Doan and Elijah continued 
to dominate in the 100-meter race, 
finishing in second and third in 
their respective heats with impres -
sive times of 10.86 and 10.92.
Senior Mario Flores bested his 
previous personal record in the 
3,000-meter steeplechase by seven 
seconds and now holds the third-
best time for UCSD in that event. 
Finishing second in his heat and 
sixth overall, Flores’ time of 9:11.52 
is also good for a provisional quali -
fying time. 
“I was really happy with the 
performance, ” Flores told the 
UCSD Guardian. ”I felt strong in the middle few laps, which in the 
steeplechase is where most start to 
fall off pace. ” 
In the women’s 3,000-meter stee -
plechase, senior Anneke Kakebeen, 
who already holds the school record 
for this event, finished with a time 
of 11:04.94, taking fourth place. Her 
teammate, freshman Merin Arft, 
crossed the line at 11:28.94, making 
this time the eighth best in UCSD 
history for this event. 
Also performing well, Ella 
Verhees earned UCSD’s ninth-best 
time for the 1,500-meter run with a 
personal record of 4:38.10. Juniors 
Corinne Hinkle and Paige Hughes 
ran personal records, coming in 
seventh and 11th, respectively, 
in the 5,000 meter, with times of 
17:22.69 and 17:25.28. On the 
field, freshman Matt Bowen and 
sophomore Derek Van de Streek 
continued to perform well, jumping 
48-3 1/2 and 46-4 3/4, respectively, 
in the triple jump. 
Only two Tritons competed 
at the Mt. San Antonio College 
Relays, where many elite track 
and field athletes compete. Senior Tanner Collins and junior Tareq 
Alwafai attained NCAA provisional 
qualifying times in the 5,000-me -
ter run with times of 14:33.10 and 
14:34.91, respectively, each just a 
few seconds shy of their perfor -
mances last year at the same meet. 
Looking forward to the CCAA 
Championships in just a couple of 
weeks, the Tritons are among the 
favorites to be crowned the CCAA 
Champions and to earn a trip to 
the NCAA Championships. 
“I’m confident that my team -
mates, Daniel Franz and Daniel 
Hauptman, and I are ready to for 
All-Conference podium finishes, ” 
Flores said. “[We] are looking for -
ward to finishing off our collegiate 
career with an exclamation point in 
pursuit of making it to the NCAA 
Championship meet. ” 
UCSD will compete next at 
home in the Triton Invitational 
next weekend, April 24 and 25.On Friday morning, the women’s 
rowing team raced against rival San 
Diego State at Mission Bay. Winning 
two of the five races, the Tritons saw 
the matchups as preparation for the 
Western Intercollegiate Rowing As -
sociation Championships next week. 
In the Novice-8 race, the crew of 
coxswain freshman Allison Kubo, 
junior Rachel Becker, freshman Erika 
Assoun, sophomore Jaida Aikens, 
freshman Angela Lee, junior Helen 
Femmel, senior Aleksandra Boy -
chenko, senior Annahita Haghighi 
and freshman Katie Potts defeated 
the Aztecs, posting a time of 6:56.1 
seconds to SDSU’s 7:18.0.
The Tritons also won the 2V8 race, 
with coxswain freshman Tori Wong, 
junior Shruti Kamath, freshman Janell 
Ingersoll, senior Emma Purcell, senior 
Natalia Royal, sophomore Carolyn 
Montellato, senior Christina Nilles, 
senior Nicole Arkosy and freshman 
Juliane Smith besting SDSU by almost 
three seconds with a time of 6:44.1. 
In the Varsity-8 race, the boat with 
coxswain senior Catherine Sheffler, 
senior Kelly Peterson, freshman Jes -
sica Levesque, freshman Catherine 
Mosher, junior Nicole Ham -
monds, sophomore Amber Harris, 
sophomore Jordan Levy, freshman 
Olivia Koyama and junior Madison 
Kohlenberger was edged out by the Aztecs 6:34.6 to 6:35.8. 
“It was a great battle, ” UCSD head 
coach Colin Truex told the UCSD 
Athletics department. “The Varsity 8 
showed tremendous grit today after 
getting off to slow start, falling a 
length back and then charging almost 
all the way back through in the last 
500 meters. ”
SDSU dominated the Varsity-4 
race, however, defeating the Triton 
boat of coxswain freshman Juliana 
Burns, senior Kimberly McCune, 
sophomore Lauren Iannetta, sopho -
more Jennifer Dutton and senior 
Claire Duesdieker by 7:13.1 to 7:41.0. 
Finally, in the 2V4 race, SDSU “ A ” 
and “B” boats defeated the UCSD crew 
of coxswain junior Sara Leontis, junior 
Courtney Breslow, junior Lauren Van 
De Hey, freshman Annie Hocking 
and senior Michaela Kazek, which 
finished in 7:47.6. 
“It was a perfect final tune-up 
for the WIRA Championships next 
weekend, ” Truex said. “We are excited 
and ready to get there. ”
Looking to build on this past 
weekend’s results, UCSD will compete 
in the WIRA Championships on 
April 25 and 26 at Rancho Cordova, 
California.
LOST
-REWARD-
MORE INFO FOUND AT
sgf.ucsd.edu/ sgfbabiesLioness baby sun god with tan fur. Answers to the name of “Jordan”. 
Weighs approx. 2oz. - 4 years old. Loves music and 
helping others. Last seen in Price Center East.  
follow @ucsdasce @asgraphicstudio @tritonoutfitter #sgfbabies
UCSD to Host Triton Invitational Before CCAA Championships
Water Polo to Compete in WWPA Championships Next Week end▶ TRACK AND FIELD,  from page 12
▶ WATER POLO,  from page 12readers can contact
Rosina Garcia   rmg008@ucsd.edu 
readers can contact
gurkira t Singh    gsingh@ucsd.edu W.  CREW
Triton Crew Takes Two
Novice 8 and 2V8 boats crush cross-town rival SDSU.
readers can contact
Marcus Thuillier    mthuilli@ucsd.edu PHOTO BY UCSD ATHLETICSSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
MARCUS THUILLIER
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 20, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
SOFTBALL
Tritons Split Series
Softball team sweeps Friday’s doubleheader but drops Saturday’s games against Cal State East Bay.
BY KATIE POTTS  EDITORIAL ASSISTANT // PHOTO BY  CORY WONG 
The Triton softball team traveled up to Hayward, California this 
weekend for its final regular season road series against California 
Collegiate Athletic Association No. 8 team Cal State East Bay. 
The big blue had a strong showing in Friday’s doubleheader, mercy rul -
ing the Pioneers 10–0 in game one and triumphing 2–1 in extra innings 
in game two. However, UCSD found trouble in Saturday’s games, falling 
5–2 in game one and getting mercy ruled 8–0 in game two.
The Tritons’ record fell to 24–22 overall and 14–18 in league play, 
good for seventh in the conference, while Cal State East Bay improves to 
25–22 overall and 13–19 in the CCAA.
The Triton team dominated on the field and at the plate in game one, 
crushing the Pioneers with a 10-run shutout victory. Junior lefty Alexis 
Edwards had a stellar performance in the circle, giving up only one hit 
for the duration of the game and then shutting down three of four batters 
in the bottom of the fifth to close the game.
A base hit by freshman second-baseman Kendall Baker started 
UCSD off strong in the first inning. Sophomore first-baseman Emma 
Schneider then stepped up to the plate and blasted a two-run homer over 
the center-field fence, giving her team an early lead.
“I try to stay relaxed by thinking of all the successes I’ve previously 
had, ” Schneider told the UCSD Guardian. “It helps me remind myself 
that I know how to do what needs to be done, so I should I have no 
problem doing it. ”
UCSD struck again in the second inning, with junior outfielder 
Taylor Abeyta scoring off a throwing error by the Pioneers’ catcher and 
third baseman Rachel Phillips scoring when Baker reached on a field -
ing error by third base. The Tritons made their final offensive attack in 
the fifth — an RBI single by freshman outfielder Kelsi Maday and an 
RBI double by freshman catcher Lauren Sanders notched up two more 
runs on the board. Then, with the bases loaded, sophomore pinch-hitter 
Ashley Chestnut hit her first grand slam past center field to seal the win.
The blue and gold found success again in extra innings in game 
two. The Pioneers put up the first run off an RBI single in the third, 
but UCSD came back to level the score in the bottom of the sixth. 
After Baker reached on a fielder’s choice, Schneider came up big at 
the plate again, hitting a double to right field to score Baker and 
even the score at 1–1.
The next three innings proved to be a defensive battle — Cal State East 
Bay held UCSD to just three base hits until the top of the 10th inning, when 
sophomore designated player Bianca Devoto scored the winning run off a shot 
to left-center field by 
Sanders. Edwards then went on to 
shut down three of five batters in the bottom of the 10th to 
secure the win for the Tritons.
In Saturday’s game one, UCSD once again got off to a strong start, 
earning the first run of the game when Devoto doubled to score Baker 
in the top of the third. The lead didn’t hold for long though — with one 
runner aboard after drawing a walk, Pioneer senior outfielder Jaynie 
MacDonald hit a two-run homer in the bottom of the inning to pull East 
Bay into the lead. An RBI double in the fifth followed by runs by senior 
outfielder Kelsey LaVaute and senior designated player Brittany Enny in 
the sixth then increased the Tritons’ deficit to four.
UCSD attempted to rally back in the seventh: Junior shortstop 
McKenna Clewett hit a solo shot over the left field fence to narrow 
the gap to three runs. However, Cal State East Bay’s senior pitcher 
Emily Perlich dug in and retired the next three batters in the order, 
securing a 5–2 win.
The Pioneers took a dominating lead in the first inning in Saturday’s 
game two. Back-to-back singles by LaVaute and senior outfielder Alex 
Vela scored two for the team, and then a hard single to left field by Enny 
brought in two more runs. Junior pitcher Sierra Clark pitched a perfect 
first and second and held the Triton offense to just three hits in all five 
innings of play.
East Bay then sealed the shutout in the bottom of the third. Clark 
scored off an error by catcher, then MacDonald hit her second homer of 
the day to bring in three runs for an 8–0 victory.
“In softball, it’s really important to work together as a team, ” 
Schneider said. “If one aspect of your game is off, it can affect the whole 
game — that’s why your pitching, offense and defense all have to be in 
sync. If one of these isn’t working, there’s a high chance that the result 
will be a loss. ”
The Tritons will be back at home next weekend in their final regular 
season series against CCAA fourth-place team Cal State San Bernardino.
The UCSD women’s water polo 
team fell to No. 18 San Diego State 
this past Saturday at Aztec Aqua -
plex. The 6–3 loss was mainly due 
to a rough start from which the 
Tritons could not recover. 
Due to the defeat, the Tritons 
lost the Harper Cup, which is 
named after current UCSD men’s 
water polo coach Denny Harper, 
who graduated from SDSU. The Tri -
tons had previously won the Harper 
Cup from the Aztecs for the first 
time in the its 13-year history in 
2014. Despite high hopes of holding 
on to the Harper Cup following 
a hard-earned overtime win last 
week, the Tritons just couldn’t make 
it happen. 
As a result of the game, the 
Tritons’ record fell to 16–18 while 
the Aztecs improved to a 16–14 
overall record.  
The Aztecs started off the game 
scoring two times in the first quarter and continued to dominate 
in the second quarter by scor -
ing two more times. The first half 
ended with the Aztecs holding the 
Tritons scoreless with a count of 
4–0. Sophomore utility Caroline 
Israels and senior utility Carina 
Carballo scored two of those goals, 
both times assisted by junior utility Nikole Ferrari. The other two goals 
came from sophomore defender 
Ioli Benekou and sophomore center 
Alyssa Diacono.
The second half of the game 
started with another goal from 
SDSU, scored by senior driver An -W.  W A TER  POLO
SDSU Defeats UCSD in Harper Cup
Aztecs jump to early lead, hold off a late rally by Tritons to reclaim Harper Cup.
B Y Gurkira t Singh
Senior Staff Writer
See WATER POLO , page 11PHOTO BY ALWIN SZETO/ GUARDIAN FILETRACK  &  FIELD
Tritons Dominate Meets
UCSD hits provisional qualifying marks for NCAAs.
Multiple Tritons earned pro -
visional qualifying marks for the 
NCAA Division-II Championships 
this past week when the UCSD 
track and field team split and com -
peted in three different meets: the 
California and Bryan Clay Invita -
tionals in Azusa, CA and the Mt. 
SAC Relays in Walnut, CA. 
At the California Invitational, 
hosted by Azusa Pacific University, 
only the decathlon and heptath -
lon events were held. Looking to 
return to the NCAA Champion -
ships, sophomore Dan Golubovic 
finished in the top 10 in eight of 
the 10 events and finished in sixth 
place overall in the “ A ” group of 
competitors, with a score of 6,881, 
clinching a provisional qualifying 
mark. On the women’s side, senior 
Veronica Bradley also earned a 
provisional qualifying mark with 
an overall score of 4,433 points and 
a solid 28th place finish. Making 
her collegiate debut in the heptath -lon, sophomore Taylor Eljenholm 
finished with 3,921 points. 
In the Bryan Clay Invitational, 
the Tritons hit several provisional 
qualifying marks as well and had 
a strong showing overall. Two-
time California Collegiate Athletic 
Association champion and NCAA 
qualifier senior Nash Howe won 
the javelin competition with a 
throw of 220 feet. For the women, B Y Rosina  Garcia
Copy Editor             
See TRACK AND FIELD , page 11
M. Golf
Baseball
W. Water Polo
Softball
Crew     4/20
     4/21
     4/24
     4/24
     4/25AT CCAA Championships
VS Cal State San Bernardino
AT WWPA Championships
VS Cal State San Bernardino
AT WIRA ChampionshipsUPCOMING
UCSD
GAMES
PHOTO BY ALWIN SZETO/ GUARDIAN FILE
PHOTO BY UCSD ATHLETICS