VOLUME 48, ISSUE 31  MONDAY , FEBRUARY 9, 2015 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
DERPY SEA 
CREATURES
UCSD SCRIPPS INSTITUTE 
STUDENT INITIATES ART 
PROJECT TO ILLUSTRATE 
MARINE BIOLOGY AND 
OTHER SCIENCES THROUGH 
WACKY AND WILD CARTOON 
CHARACTERS.
SEXUAL ASSAUL T POLICY
RETURNING  TO  THE  FIELDThe   opinion  section  weighs in
baseball/softball  previewopinion,  P age   4
sports,  P age  12
MONDAY
H 73 L 52TUESDAY
H 75 L 54
WEDNESDAY
H 82 L 55THURSDAY
H 81 L 55
FORECAST
VERBATIM
YOUR NEXT 
STOP IS A 
BAR THAT 
PLAYS LIVE 
MUSIC, 
BECAUSE THE 
BEST BONDING EXPERIENCES 
HAPPEN AT PLACES WHERE 
IT’S TOO LOUD TO ACTUALLY 
HEAR EACH OTHER”
HOW-TO GURU
OPINION , PAGE  4
INSIDE
LIIGHTS AND SIRENS........3
E-CIGS  ............................ 4
THE DUFF MOVIE  ............ 7
CROSSWORD  ................ 10
MEN’S BASKETBALL  .....12   “
FEA TURES,  P AGE  6
COURTESY OF SQUIDTOONS
The UCSD Alumni and 
Community Engagement enterprise 
launched its new resource center for 
student entrepreneurs called The 
Basement on Feb. 6.
The Basement launch event was 
held at Atkinson Pavilion in the UCSD 
Faculty Club and featured a question-
and-answer session between Dean of 
Arts and Humanities Cristina Della 
Coletta and alumni Mark Suster and 
Aryeh Bourkoff. Although he was not 
present at the launch event, alumnus 
Jeffrey Belk was also a key contributor 
to the project.
Suster, who serves on the Alumni 
Board of Directors, told the UCSD Guardian that he and his fellow alumni 
are interested in funding student start-
ups because of the refreshing entrepre -
neurial spirit that is characteristic of 
today’s youth.
“I believe that entrepreneurship is 
getting younger and younger because 
entrepreneurship is getting more 
technical, ” Suster said. “When you 
get older, you become a little jaded 
because you’ve tried so many things 
that don’t work. I’m interested in fund -
ing these people because young people 
have naive optimism; you don’t know 
what can’t happen, so you’re willing to 
try anything. ”
Located underneath Mandeville 
Center, The Basement is designed to 
inform and educate undergraduate 
students about the process of starting 
or joining startup businesses through its three programs: Seekers, Incubator 
and Accelerator.
Seekers events are open to all 
UCSD students who are interested in 
entrepreneurship and participation 
does not require an application, unlike 
the other two Basement programs. The 
Incubator and Accelerator programs 
accept student teams and provide them 
with resources to receive seed funding.
Suster added that collaborative 
office space aims to fund up to 100 
companies in the next five years with 
over $1 million.
In 2014, Forbes named San Diego 
as the best city in the United States to 
launch a start-up. According to The 
Basement, there are over 200 UCSD-
related companies in San Diego UCSD
ASCE Confirms Beer 
Garden For SGF 2015The Armenian Student Union, 
in conjunction with several other 
student cultural organizations on 
campus, hosted the Stain of Denial: 
Silent Sit-in Protest on Thursday, 
Feb. 5. The protest, which was meant 
to acknowledge the 100th year of 
denial regarding the Armenian 
Genocide by the Ottoman Empire, 
was held in front of the Silent Tree 
outside of Geisel Library from 10 
a.m. to 2 p.m.
ASU alumni instituted the Stain 
of Denial protests on the UCSD 
campus three years ago. The pro -
tests, which were held simultane -
ously throughout UC campuses on 
Feb. 5, aimed to educate students 
about the Armenian Genocide and 
the ensuing campaign of denial by 
the Ottoman Empire which is now 
the state of Turkey.
The event consisted of about 
30 student protesters throughout 
the day and caught the attention of 
many individuals who stopped to 
speak with representatives from the 
various organizations.
ASU President Y eraz Kochkarian 
told the UCSD Guardian that the 
purpose of sitting silently in protest 
was to create a visual representation 
of the ongoing denial.
“The silence represents all of the 
silence around the issue essentially, ” 
Kochkarian said. “ And how politics 
and governments don’t talk about 
it or don’t refer to it as a geno -
cide. This year marks the 100th 
year commemorating the geno -
cide, so it’s especially important to           
make a visual protest demonstrat -
ing how this is still important 100   
years later. ”
Many of the protesters wore red 
tape over their mouths to further 
enhance this visual effect of the 
protest. They also wore black shirts 
to show their solidarity.
Besides being one of the rep -
resentatives whom those passing 
by could question, Kochkarian was 
also holding a picture of her grand -
mother, a survivor of the Armenian 
Genocide who was rescued by 
French soldiers and taken to France 
before later returning to Syria and 
sharing her story. Other protes -
tors held similar photographs and 
were willing to share other stories            
of survivors. 
Among the other campus groups 
that came out to support the event 
was the Union of Jewish Students. 
Vice President of Outreach Y ael 
Kempe, a senior from Sixth College, 
shared with the Guardian why it 
was important that UJS showed up 
to the event.   B y TINA  BUTOIU    NEWS EDITOrUCSD Groups 
Commemorate
Armenian 
GenocideCAMPUS
Multicultural organizations 
sat in silent protest of the 
Turkish government’s 100-
year denial of the genocide.
B Y  BR YNNA  BOL T 
STAFF WRITER
Sun God Festival 2015 will be the first to offer a beer 
garden as part of a joint effort to reduce the binge-
drinking that happens before the event, according 
to A.S. Concerts and Events Associate Vice President 
Seraphin Raya. Other changes to this year’s festival 
include instituting a no re-entry policy and potentially 
selling tickets to graduate students.
“Beer garden is essentially an area most music 
festival and events designate specifically to the sale of 
beer, ” Raya said in a Feb. 4 interview with the UCSD 
Guardian. “Over the past 10 years, people have been 
introducing these into events because there’s been prob -
lems with binge-drinking. ”
In order to access the beer garden, set to be behind 
the Midway tent, students will be required to show a 
government-issued ID, after which they will receive 
a beer garden wristband. Students will also only be 
allowed to consume beer in the beer garden itself.
Unlike Bear Gardens that serves two free beers, at 
this year’s Sun God, students will be able to purchase 
up to three beers over a longer period of time. However, 
the number of beers they will actually be allowed to 
purchase is contingent upon their arrival time. 
Executive Director of Student Health and Well-Being Karen Calfas told the Guardian that the wrist -
band will be used to keep track of the number of indi -
vidual purchases. 
“People won’t be able to drink one beer after another, 
after another. They’ll have tabs on their wristbands that 
will be removed and they won’t be able to get another 
beer until a certain period of time goes by, ” Calfas said. 
“That’s forcing people to kind of pace the ingestion of 
alcohol to kind of level out their blood-alcohol content. ”
Calfas called the beer garden a harm-reduction 
initiative and emphasized that the logistics concern -
ing the number of beers and time intervals are based 
on national recommendations and standards in the 
alcohol-serving industry. 
“The idea is that it reduces the need for students to 
drink heavily before coming into the event, ” Calfas said. 
“Our hope is that this will contribute to people kind 
of decreasing the highest risk drinking, which is drink 
after drink, and way too many of them in a row. ”
Raya and Calfas also said that individuals who 
appear to be intoxicated, regardless of their age, will not 
be permitted to enter the festival. Furthermore, the bar -
tenders hired, which will likely be from the same com -
pany that caters Bear Gardens, are trained to identify 
The Basement Opens to Student Entrepreneurs 
Alumni invest $1 million in student start-ups and offer mentorship to undergraduates.
B Y   Kriti  sarin
Associate News EditorSee  BEER , page 3
See  BASEMENT , page 2ALUMNI
Dean of Arts and Humanities Cristina Della Coletta and alumni Mark Suster and Aryeh Bourkoff host a question-and-answer 
session at the Atkinson Pavilion during the launch of UCSD’s entrepreneurial training program. Siddharth Atre/ UCSD Guardian.
See PROTEST , page 3SUN GOD FESTIVALCounty that generate about $31.6 
billion in sales annually. Bourkoff 
explained that this project will make 
it significantly easier for students 
who are interested in venture capi -
talism to enter the field.
“Setting up this fund and putting 
$1 million into the opportunity to 
create businesses and to create the 
Basement was all about creating a new [way] for people to pursue the 
path they want, ” Bourkoff said.
Della Coletta emphasized the 
importance of students focusing on 
the actions and known experienc -
es of successful entrepreneurs as a 
means of learning and said that one 
of the most important resources The 
Basement could provide to students 
was its form of mentorship.
“This is a moment when the 
ideas and aspirations of our students can come in contact with the wis -
dom and experiences of our alum -
ni, ” Coletta said. “We need to focus 
on outcomes and goals. We need to 
focus on what entrepreneurs do, not 
what entrepreneurs are. ”
After the Q&A session, students 
had the opportunity to participate 
in a PitchFest where teams had 60 
seconds to pitch their ideas to the 
two businessmen and receive imme -
diate feedback. Students also had the chance to drop off their resumes 
for critiquing purposes.
The Basement will host simi -
lar events in the future, including 
coding competitions and more 
PitchFests, while working in col -
laboration with other shared-space 
centers, incubators and accelerators 
across campus. 2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 9, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG N EWS
DIGITAL MONKEYS By Jeff Lau
Registration for WINTER Qtr is NOW open!
Register online at 
as.ucsd.edu/saferides
A.S. Safe Rides allows register ed un dergradua te 
studen ts to  get 3  FREE rides per quarter.
Studen ts must register  at lea st 24 hours
prio r to their first ride.  A.S. Safe Rides 
asucsd asucsd
.com/ucsdguardian
.com/ucsdguardian
.com/ucsdguardianThe UCSD Triton Food Pantry 
opened on Jan. 5, offering free food 
to all students, though the purpose 
of the pantry is targeted toward stu -
dents who find it difficult to afford 
meals. Located on the first floor of 
the Original Student Center, it oper -
ates 18.5 hours per week. It is cur -
rently funded through a grant from the 
office of the Vice Chancellor of Student 
Affairs, though there are plans to have 
future operational costs covered by 
UCSD Associated Students.
The Triton Food Pantry came 
about as the result of a survey taken 
of UC students in 2013, which found 
that about 25 percent of UCSD stu -
dents skipped meals “somewhat often, ” 
“often” or “very often” in order to 
save money. The project was origi -
nally undertaken primarily by Muir 
College Dean of Student Affairs Patty Mahaffey, but the pantry was ultimate -
ly made possible through work from 
several campus organizations, includ -
ing University Centers, A.S. Council, 
the Financial Aid Office and Student 
Affairs, among others.
Mahaffey released a document to 
the UCSD Guardian describing the 
goals of the Triton Food Pantry. 
“The primary goal of the food pan -
try is to provide free food to UC San 
Diego students who are experienc -
ing food insecurity, ” the document 
stated. “ As cost of living and college 
expenses increase, some students are 
faced with difficult decisions as to how 
their money will be allocated. Food is 
often perceived as a flexible expense, 
and some students will choose to skip 
meals or choose less nutritious, but 
often cheaper, options. ” 
The space will be directly managed 
by two student managers, A.S. coun -
cil members Colin King and Jeremy 
Snyder, as well as a small volunteer 
staff. It will operate for a block of three to four hours every weekday, and those 
times will change every day. According 
to A.S. President Robby Boparai, this 
is meant to make sure that students 
will not have time conflicts with the 
Triton Food Pantry’s hours every day. 
Students will be allowed to walk in 
and take any amount of food during 
those hours, though student IDs will 
be scanned at the door to limit these 
trips to once per week.
King commented on the use of the 
honor system to monitor the Triton 
Food Pantry.
“We figure that if you’re in need 
of a snack or a meal, there’s a reason 
why you’re using the food pantry, ” 
King told the Guardian. “We don’t 
want to ask them personal informa -
tion, which might deter them from 
using this service, so we want to make 
it as open as possible. Abusing it is                          
something that could happen, but 
we’re not expecting it. ”
The space used to be a part of 
the office for A.S. Lecture Notes, and $50,000 in funds were given by 
the Office of the Vice Chancellor of 
Student Affairs for start-up expens -
es, including the room’s renovation. 
According to Boparai, nearly all of that 
money has been used, as was planned. 
A.S. Council plans to vote on a refer -
endum that would provide funds for 
the Triton Food Pantry, in addition to 
looking for further funding from com -
munity donors.
The food is being provided at a 
reduced cost by the San Diego Food 
Bank, which will keep the new food 
pantry stocked for a small fee.
A.S. Council and the Triton Food 
Bank managers are hoping awareness 
will spread through word of mouth, 
though they are looking into advertis -
ing in Price Center as well as possibly 
sending an email out in conjunction 
with the Financial Aid Office.Triton Food Pantry Provides Free Food to Struggling Students
The pantry operates on an honor system, which allows students to obtain meals or snacks at most once a week. 
B Y   Kyle  somers
Associate A&E EditorCAMPUS
Entrepreneurs Will Have Opportunities T o Develop And Pitch Their Ideas T o Investors 
▶ BASEMENT,  from page 1The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and 
Thursdays during the academic year by UCSD students 
and for the UCSD community. Reproduction of this 
newspaper in any form, whether in whole or in part, 
without permission is strictly prohibited. © 2014, all 
rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is not responsible 
for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. The 
views expressed herein do not necessarily represent 
the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of 
California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian 
is funded by advertising. GIRL SCOUT COOKIES <3.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Audrey Sechrest
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Aleksandra Konstantinovic
Andrew E. Huang  
Taylor Sanderson
Tina Butoiu
Kriti Sarin
Charu Mehra
Cassia Pollock
Brandon Yu
John Story
Teiko Yakobson
Jacqueline Kim
Kyle Somers
Nilu Karimi
Siddharth Atre
Jonathan Gao
Joselynn Ordaz
Elyse Yang
Annie Liu
Rosina Garcia
Laura Chow
Vincent PhamEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
  
Associate News Editor
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Social Media Coordinator
Training and Development
Page Layout
Sherman Aline, Charu Mehra
Copy Readers
Andrew Chao, Caroline Lee, Micaela Stone
Editorial Assistants
Shelby Newallis, Jennifer Grundman, 
Karly Nisson, Mario Attie, Marcus Thuillier,
Kriti  sarin   ksarin@ucsd.edu readers can contactKyle  somers   ksomers@ucsd.edu readers can contactintoxicated or drugged individuals. 
“This is part of a program that’s 
done throughout the county where 
they train bartenders in what they 
call ‘responsible hospitality, ’” Calfas 
said. “It’s been shown to reduce 
drunk driving, DUIs and actual 
fatalities from drunk driving inci -
dents, so these are kind of tech -
niques we know are effective. ”
According to Raya, ASCE has 
been organizing the Bear Gardens 
for the past eight years without hos -
pitalizations for conditions related 
to alcohol or drug use. 
Raya hoped that attendees 
wouldn’t stay too long in the beer 
garden throughout the festival 
and also said that it will be open 
until an hour and a half before the            
headliner performs.
“The beer garden will be open 
from 2 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. and that’s 
just because the state requires that 
all events cut beer gardens, or the sale of alcohol, one hour before the 
event is over, ” Raya said. “There 
has to be a window for people to 
sober up so they can try to drive          
home safely. ”
In addition to changing the for -
mat of the festival and providing a 
beer garden, entrance to the festival 
will be more heavily scrutinized. Raya 
stated that individuals who are found 
to be intoxicated by drugs cannot be 
admitted into a detox facility and will 
need to be hospitalized and potentially       
taken to jail. 
“In previous years, we’ve had Staff 
Pro and police officers looking out for 
students, but this year, in particular, 
we’re [going to] have more time at the 
entrance; it’s not just [going to] be a 
straight walk through onto the field, ” 
Raya said. “Students are [going to] 
have to scan their wristbands and also 
get a bag check, so that will add to the 
amount of time that we’re interacting 
with the student in order to allow us to 
increase our abilities to assist students 
in need. ”Additionally, ASCE has confirmed 
the Sun God Festival headliner, whom 
Raya says is a household name. In a 
previous interview, Raya mentioned 
this year’s offer to the headliner was 
more than in any previous years.
ASCE will formally announce 
the lineup sometime in early                         
Spring Quarter.
“We’re working on finishing up the 
last, tiny edits of the contract, so now 
we’re moving onto to the rest of the 
lineup, ” Raya said. “We just sent out an 
offer for the person that’s starting the 
day, so we’re super excited. Essentially, 
what we’re doing is building a really 
exciting lineup that students won’t 
[want to] miss. ”
ASCE will be holding three more 
open forum events on Feb. 17, March 
2 and March 10 in Price Center’s Red 
Shoe Room to allow for student input 
and participation. N EWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 9, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
“Our club personally feels a very 
close connection to the ASU, and we 
feel like we need to show our [solidar -
ity] to them as a coalition we have 
with them, ” Kempe said. “I think also 
because our cultures are so similar and 
we’ve experienced the Holocaust and 
they’ve experienced the Genocide, its 
all one and the same. It’s nondenomi -
national, and we’re here to show our 
support with AS[U]. ”Other student organizations 
involved with the protest included 
the Armenian cultural Greek orga -
nizations Alpha Gamma Alpha, 
Zeta Chapter and Alpha Epsilon 
Omega, Eta Chapter. Also present 
were members of the Black Student 
Union and Kaibigang Pilipino. 
However, an affiliation with one of 
these groups was not necessary to 
join the protest. 
Revelle College junior trans -
fer Asher Alter, who is a mem -ber of Alpha Epsilon Pi, stated that 
he came out to the event because 
the genocide was something that 
strongly affected him.
“It’s something that resonates 
deeply, ” Alter told the Guardian. “It 
was the first genocide of the modern 
age, and the fact that it’s not recog -
nized by most countries is a pretty 
big deal. ”LIGHTS & SIRENSLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edu.
Friday, Jan. 30
7:47 p.m.: Collision with Injury
A vehicle collided with a pedestrian 
in Lot P406. Pedestrian transported 
to hospital.
8:23 p.m.: Public Intoxication
A person was found to be 
intoxicated at RIMAC.  Transported 
to detox.
Saturday, Jan. 31
4:57 p.m.: Disturbance 
A caller stated that he was having 
suicidal thoughts. Transported to 
hospital.
6:38 p.m.: Medical Aid
A young adult male and female 
were having a negative reaction 
to excessive edible marijuana. 
Transported to hospital.
Sunday, Feb. 1
12:47 a.m.: Petty Theft
Community Service Officers 
reported two adult males peeling 
stickers off parking lot signs and 
stealing A-frame signs in Lot P510.  
Closed by adult citation.
1:40 p.m.: Information
UCSD Police received second-
hand information about a friend 
being blackmailed. Victim lives 
off campus, so reporting party was 
advised to contact San Diego Police Department. Information only.
Monday, Feb. 2
8:38 a.m.: Information
Report of estranged husband 
who was taken off lease that was 
refusing to leave. The reporting 
party declined office contact and 
will seek legal counsel instead. 
Information only.
4:06 p.m.: Citizen Contact
Report received of unsolicited 
and unwanted faxing/emailing by 
student to a professor.  Information 
only.
Tuesday, Feb. 3
8 a.m. to 2:21 p.m.: Fraud
A fraudulent check was received by 
the victim. After deposit, a loss of 
$480 was seen. Report taken.
6:16 p.m.: Family Disturbance
Family reported juvenile son having 
a violent episode and requested 
assistance until behavioral therapist 
arrived. Information only.
11:39 p.m.: Information
Possible abandoned/lost golf cart. 
Information only.
— SIDDHARTH ATRE
Photo EditorMulticultural Groups Stood In Solidarity With ASU Members
▶ PROTEST,  from page 1
Like us on Facebook
facebook.com/ucsdguardianPolicy Introduces Individual Screening Process And Prevents Re-Entry
▶ BEER,  from page 1Br ynna  Bol t   bbolts@ucsd.edu readers can contact
Tina Butoiu   cbutoiu@ucsd.edu readers can contact
Follow us on Twitter
@UCSDGUARDIAN4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 9, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CHARU  MEHRA
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
E-Cigs: Alternative or Gateway?
E-Cigarettes have become progressively more popular among younger Americans, 
especially in light of  tradtional cigarette bans in many places. 
So you and your girls have 
decided to go out and 
party like you’re on an epi -
sode of “Keeping Up With the 
Kardashians. ” Where should you 
go? How much money should you 
throw away? Our handy-dandy 
guide will help you determine all of 
that as you plan your perfect eve -
ning out.
First things first: Before you 
leave, make sure you put on the 
highest, most toe-pinching heels 
that you own. Forget the fact that 
your game plan includes walking 
between two to three different loca -
tions. Y ou want your calves to look 
super toned as you stumble up and 
down the block, tripping over curbs 
and randomly cobbled streets. For 
bonus points, wear a dress that 
rides up as you walk and add some 
complicated elastic undergarments 
to keep it all together. Y ou want 
to be as uncomfortable as possible 
because there’s nothing sexier than 
having to re-adjust your outfit 
every four minutes.
Next, pick the most overpriced, 
tourist-filled neighborhood in your 
city and go out on a weekend night. 
This will ensure that you have 
the longest possible wait for that 
trendy restaurant that has exactly 
six tables. If you’re lucky, you’ll 
get seated at the awkward outdoor 
patio bar so you can’t actually talk 
to your friends and eat your food 
at the same time. Surely the dis -
comfort is manageable because the 
place serves water out of mason 
jars. And don’t worry — the awk -
ward, crowded atmosphere doesn’t 
end when you leave the restaurant 
because this neighborhood has 
every kind of bro, club promoter 
and mid-life crisis-facing dad out 
and standing around on the side -
walks you’re trying to walk on.        
Y our next stop is a bar that plays 
live music because the best bond -
ing experiences happen at places   
where it’s too loud to actually hear 
each other. 
When you get to the bar and 
face the unsmiling bouncer, make 
sure someone in your group forgets 
their ID so you have to change 
plans mid-outing. There’s nothing 
more fun than frantically scrolling 
through Y elp looking for a restau -
rant that serves drinks, desserts and 
admits underage patrons as you 
shiver on the curb.
Finally, if you’re going to an area 
of town that features pedicabs, you’re 
definitely going to want to ride in 
one. Nothing says class like a flash -
ing, bike-powered wagon driven by a 
man who probably had a promising 
career in his  home country. 
He’ll take one look at you and 
your friends and hit play on his 
“White Girl Wasted” playlist so 
you can ride around town losing 
your dignity to the sound of Iggy 
Azalea’s “Fancy. ” Who cares if that 
half-block ride costs $30? It’s justi -
fied because you certainly wouldn’t 
have made it up the street in the 
ridiculous shoes you picked out.
If you follow our guide, you’re 
going to have an unforgettable 
night out with your girls, with 
enough selfies to make up for the 
fact that you forgot everything after 
11 p.m. Have the 
Best Girls’ 
Night Out
Ever
It is nearly impossible not to know that smoking has adverse health effects. 
According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, health 
complications from cigarette smoking cause about one in five deaths in the 
U.S. annually — adding up to more deaths than those caused by HIV , illegal 
drug use, alcohol use, motor vehicle injuries and firearm-related incidents 
combined. Anyone who’s had an American elementary school experience in the 
past 20 years knows that cigarettes are basically cancer slipped into a smooth 
cardboard box. The CDC has also reported that youth smoking rates have 
stagnated over the past five years.
Enter: e-cigarettes. With sleek names, like Virgin Vapor and VaporFi, and 
flavors ranging from “classic tobacco” to “blackberry Italian cream soda, ” 
e-cigarettes have begun to abandon their original roles as cigarette substitutes 
and are now directly targeting youth without the hindrances of government 
regulation. VaporFi touts that they serve everyone from “vaping newbies” to “the 
most experienced vapors. ”
“Vaping” has not only developed as a subculture among former smokers but 
it has also become more prevalent among high school students. The Sacramento 
Bee reported that in three years, e-cigarette use among kids has gone from 4.7 
percent of all high schoolers to 10 percent, and now up to 16 to 17 percent of 
juniors and seniors use them. Anti-tobacco advocates, including the American 
Lung Association, have expressed concern that e-cigs — with their candy flavors 
and freedom from regulation — are increasingly being used to hook kids on 
nicotine and keep big tobacco companies in positions of power. However, regulation of e-cigs may require a more nuanced approach 
than anti-tobacco groups are willing to take. Lumping e-cigs in with all other 
tobacco products could extinguish any hope of a positive effect on the tobacco 
market. Although conflicting evidence exists concerning whether or not they 
possess harmful chemicals, and much is unknown about the health effects 
of their long-term use, e-cigs are — without a doubt — much healthier than 
smoking real cigarettes, and they have helped individuals quit or at least stay 
away from a more harmful form of nicotine addiction. The CDC reported that 
e-cig use among American smokers more than doubled from 2010 to 2011. 
As a product, e-cigs have the potential to replace traditional cigarettes with a 
healthier alternative. Still, they also have the potential to act as a gateway drug to 
unhealthier tobacco products. The fate of e-cigs unfortunately seems to lie in the 
hands of businessmen and bureaucrats.
While many health groups such as the American Heart Association support 
the Food and Drug Administration regulation of e-cigs, they are wary of this 
regulation being dominated by major U.S. cigarette manufacturers. Many of 
these companies could promote use of both conventional cigarettes and e-cigs 
or convince those who only vape — particularly young people — to begin using 
conventional cigarettes, as well, “thereby increasing rather than [reducing] 
nicotine and tobacco addiction. ” 
UCSD’s tobacco-free, smoke-free policy not only bans the sale and 
advertising of tobacco products, it also outlaws the use of all tobacco and 
unregulated nicotine products, including e-cigs. The official UC system position 
See E-CIGS,  page 5
Introducing campaigns focused on reducing sexual 
assault on university campuses is a good strategy for 
altering rape culture. University of California Student 
Association’s UConsent campaign, which started this 
academic year, focuses on awareness, education and 
advocacy about providing sexual consent. 
For evidence of positive impacts, take a look at 
the most recent rape case at Stanford University. Only 
one year ago, Stanford was one of 55 universities 
under investigation for mishandling sexual assault 
and harassment under the gender equity law Title IX. 
According to the Huffington Post, the list was request -
ed to be made public by numerous student activists at 
universities across the U.S. According to Daily Mail, 
between 1975 and 2009, only four of 175 reported 
sexual assaults at Stanford were properly investigated. 
However, since the public release of this list, it 
appears that Stanford is trying to make a change for 
the better. Recently, Stanford student and athlete 
Brock Turner was banned from the Stanford campus 
for attempting to rape an unconscious woman. Unlike 
the prior cases, this case was handled right: The stu -
dent faced a trial, was banned from campus and faced 
no special treatment despite being a potential Olympic 
athlete. In addition, it should be noted that bystander 
intervention also played a part as two other students 
intervened to prevent the rape.
 What happened at Stanford is a good example 
of how awareness of the sexual consent can make a 
positive change. Public awareness pressured the uni -
versity to handle rape cases differently, while student 
intervention stopped the rape from occurring. The 
efforts of student advocacy within programs such as 
UConsent make results like these possible.
— AYAT AMIN
Senior Staff WriterRecently, sexual assault cases have been getting 
a lot of attention in the media — and rightly so. 
Rape, molestation or any type of sexual battery 
deserves to be brought to attention so that people 
will know that these are serious crimes with seri -
ous consequences. Hopefully, the publicity sur -
rounding these cases shows that rape in America 
is changing toward something that we view as a 
seriously heinous and disgusting crime. 
A January 2014 post from the official White 
House Blog urges both women and men to 
“change [the] culture of passivity and tolerance 
[toward sexual assault] in this country. ” This post 
also mentions that nearly one in five women is 
raped or sexually assaulted. This astonishing num -
ber suggests the ubiquity of these types of crimes, 
yet up until recently, these cases have not garnered 
much attention. Such a high number of sexual 
assault cases shows that this is a serious problem 
in America, and Americans need to be made 
aware of this issue. 
A TIME opinion article notes that rape culture 
is when the victim is blamed and gets asked ques -
tions along the lines of “Were you drinking?” If a 
sexual encounter occurred without consent, then 
the issue of drinking is irrelevant. The New Y ork 
Daily News does not describe the Brock Turner 
case — an ex-Stanford swimmer who is being 
charged with several accounts of sexual battery 
— in terms of what the victim was doing. Instead, 
they describe the case and why it is unlawful. No 
means no, and if someone violates this, then hope -
fully the media’s portrayal will foster a culture of 
intolerance toward rape. 
— ROSINA GARCIA
Copy EditorStarting in 2013, sexual assault finally began 
receiving the legislative attention necessary to 
combat an epidemic of negligence with regard 
to how sexual assault is perceived and treated by 
universities.
Title IX of the Education Amendments, which 
prohibits sexual discrimination in educational pro -
grams, including the manner in which cases are 
addressed, was passed in 1972. In 2013, President 
Obama enacted the Violence Against Women 
Reauthorization Act that required proper wording 
in sexual assault policies and focused on raising 
awareness for prevention and case management. 
Although these law functioned, they allowed for a 
plethora of loopholes.
Hence, California legislators passed multiple 
laws in the last couple of years ensuring that at 
least some of the loopholes are closed and that vic -
tims can feel safe reporting assaults.
The much-discussed Senate Bill 967, also 
known as “Y es Means Y es, ” is the first law that 
explains the significance of consent and finally 
removes the umbrella of the ambiguous “no” used 
to shelter perpetrators.
Furthermore, although victims of revenge porn 
are not always physically hurt, their reputation and 
mental health can be harmed. SB 1255 makes it a 
misdemeanor to distribute explicit or nude videos 
or photos of individuals, regardless of who shot 
them, without their consent.  
Sexual assault is horrifying, thus is imperative 
that victims are given closure by being recognized 
as victims under the law and that work continues 
to be done in terms of prevention and treatment. 
— TINA BOTOIU
News EditorStudent Advocacy Promotes Consent 
Campaigns, Prompts University Action Media Focus on Rampant Culture 
of  Sexual Assault Brings ChangeLegislative Action Within Political 
System Paves Way for New Policies 
QUICK TAKESSEXUAL ASSAULT REMAINS A PRESSING CONCERN AT COLLEGE CAMPUSES THROUGHOUT THE UNITED STATES. 
THE OPINION SECTION TAKES A LOOK AT THE PROBLEM FROM THE PERSPECTIVE OF THREE SOLUTION AREAS. How-to Guru
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
ILLUSTRATION BY ANNIE LIUBY HAILEY SANDEN  STAFF WRITER OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 9, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
To start your transformation, get in touch today. 310.568.2366 or 866.503.5467
gsep-recruitment@pepperdine.edu • gsep.pepperdine.edu
sara’s 
future.impact
Transform the lives of children 
with a Master of Arts in Education from Pepperdine.
Graduate Campuses: West Los Angeles 
Encino • Irvine • Westlake VillageSEE US AT OUR
GRADUATE AND
PROFESSIONAL FAIR OCTOBER 15, 2014SEE US AT OUR
GRADUATE AND
PROFESSIONAL FAIR OCTOBER 15, 2014
Big T obacco Stands T o Lose a Lot If  E-Cigarettes Stay PopularGOT ISSUES?
BE HEARD
BY YOUR PEERS!SEND YOUR 
LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Real Student Journalism.
The Guardian
Info Session - Free Food!
Friday, Feb. 13th at 5pm
Find us on the 2nd Floor of 
the Old Student Center
www.ucsdguardian.org/jobs
Join our award-winning staff today!
on e-cigs runs: “Until the proper 
studies have been completed and the 
effectiveness and safety of e-cigarettes 
is fully understood, the University of 
California [system] bans their use. ” 
This is similar to the policy proposed 
in Senate Bill 140, which more or 
less redefines e-cigs as a tobacco 
product. While this policy might be 
appropriate in a university setting, 
taking such a hard line on a larger 
scale might result in e-cigs losing their 
momentum entirely and falling out of 
the market or into the wrong hands in 
the marketplace. 
The fact that big tobacco 
companies are beginning to invest 
substantially in e-cigs is both hopeful 
and foreboding. It could either be 
reflective of an eventual transition 
away from traditional cigarettes entirely or completely alarming if they 
are merely using the opportunity that 
e-cigs present to get youth hooked on 
nicotine. The bottom line is that these 
companies will almost undoubtedly 
make the moves that will garner the 
biggest profits. Because big tobacco 
companies have spent millions 
lobbying to stifle smaller e-cig 
vendors and prevent their entry into 
the market, it seems that the concerns 
of groups like the AHA are not at 
all unfounded. If big tobacco gains 
and maintains control over the e-cig 
market and are then slapped with 
mega-tight regulations, e-cigs can lose 
their value as an investment, leading 
big tobacco to stick to the highly 
carcinogenic tried-and-true cigarettes 
and let small e-cig vendors to take a 
potentially fatal hit.
So, what is the appropriate way to 
regulate e-cigs? A healthy policy takes into account both the dangers and the 
realities of the situation — it requires 
viewing e-cigs as neither a virtue nor 
a vice but as a product. The focus 
should be trained on keeping e-cigs 
and e-cig marketing away from young 
people and nonsmokers. It should 
also press for more extensive research 
into the effects and components of 
e-cigs and demand more overall 
transparency in the market. However, 
to treat e-cigs like real cigarettes by 
banning them in public places (even 
though they can’t cause second-hand 
smoking) and forbidding them from 
advertising (even if targeted toward 
existing smokers) is not practical 
or intuitive and might, in fact, give 
traditional cigarettes a permanent 
upper hand. ▶ E-CIGS,  from page 4
READERS CAN CONTACT
hailey sanden  hsanden@ucsd.eduScribbling Science
6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 9, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
TEIKO Y AKOBSON
features@ucsdguardian.org
Imagine sitting in a biology class very close to dozing off into Wonderland, 
when the professor pulls up a comic titled “World’s Derpiest Fish” on the 
PowerPoint. One would snap out of daydreaming to find out which unlucky 
fish has been given that title. Reading the colorful and humor-filled comic, one 
would agree that with its barely noticeable tail, oversized fin and large, flat body, 
the Ocean Sunfish certainly seems like the world’s derpiest-looking fish.
This fun cartoon is just one of many on a website called Squidtoons that 
aims to educate readers while provoking laughter. Garfield Kwan, its creator and 
director, launched this website with the idea of using vibrant, creative art to at -
tract people to learn by “illustrating science with farts, burps and giggles,” as the 
website claims.
Kwan, a first-year graduate student at the Scripps Institution of Oceanography, 
was inspired to launch this website when he came across another comic website, 
The Oatmeal, run by Matthew Inman. Kwan got the idea to combine cartoons 
and scientific knowledge when he read a specific comic called “Why the Mantis 
Shrimp Is My New Favorite Animal.”
“With the mantis shrimp piece, [Inman] was able to just teach people science 
and make them laugh at the same time, and I wanted to see more of that,” Kwan 
told the UCSD Guardian. “I just grabbed a couple of friends who could draw and 
shared the same passion, and then we started something called Squidtoons.”
After a few weeks of planning with friends, the Squidtoons website was 
launched on Aug. 6, 2013. One of the first artworks, “The Anatomy of the Market 
Squid,” was drawn by Sixth College junior Dana Song, the chief scientific illustra -
tor. Although Song and some of the other artists are not personally involved with 
marine biology, Kwan feels that drawing Squidtoons allows the artists to bring a 
new, unique perspective to the art.
“[Song’s] background isn’t necessarily marine science, so it’s her first time 
learning the topic,” Kwan said. “And because it’s her first time learning it, we’re 
letting her decide where to go [with it]. [The comic] doesn’t [teach] like a profes -
sor lecturing; it becomes a shape all on its own.”
Kwan, who came into UCSD as a psychology major, discovered his deep love 
for marine biology could be turned into a Ph.D. when he worked at Stuart Sandin’s 
lab to fund his college costs. He ended up graduating from UCSD in 2013 with a 
degree in marine biology and is currently researching ocean acidification and its 
effects on fish behavior and their brains in the Martin Tresguerres Lab. Although he prefers to work behind the scenes, Kwan has published a few of his own art -
works, including “Losing Nemo,” which creatively illustrates his research.
Because Kwan’s idea interweaves science and art, which seem like two oppo -
site sides of a spectrum, different kinds of people are able to work together. Song 
is one artist who works with Kwan because of their common goals despite their 
different interests.
“I really like [Kwan’s] reason for starting Squidtoons, and a lot of it is because 
it’s very art-based.” Song said. “A big part of Squidtoons is mostly teaching 
through visuals, in very interesting visuals. So that’s what really caught my atten -
tion, and that’s what’s keeping me stuck with doing Squidtoons because I just like 
it. Art is my alleyway.”
Usually, Kwan will present topics and certain facts he will want the artists to draw 
out, and he will allow them to have free reign in their representations. However, he Written by Soo Yun Park Contributing Writer // Photos and Illustrations by Squidtoons // Design by Sherman Aline
Story continues on page 8FEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 9, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
Mae and Robbie, did any of you experience 
this kind of social phenomena when you were in high school?
I did. I definitely was bullied and called weird 
names, and that’s a big reason why I was drawn 
to doing this movie: to communicate that. A lot of people go 
through this and that I certainly had. So I wanted to use my 
experience to make people feel less alone or like you know this is 
a real infrastructure at all because it’s definitely not. It gets better 
after school. It definitely gets better. 
I grew up in Toronto where everybody is 
polite and apologizes for everything. So I had a 
very tame high school experience, but you know I always would 
have stood up and would stand up for anybody that was getting 
bullied or that I saw get bullied just because it’s such a silly and 
stupid thing to do.
  It was very interesting. The hardest part was   
having to be mean to Mae because number one, 
she’s 5 foot; she is so cute and mini-sized and I’m 5 foot 8 inches, 
and I had to be towering over [her], and I just felt like I was 
digesting her the whole movie.I have a weird answer for this, so 
take it as you will. Either everybody 
is a DUFF or there’s no such things as DUFFs. 
Y es, I mean, I think that’s what 
we really wanted to convey with 
this movie was how silly it is to think that anyone 
deserves to be put in a box that some other [person] 
makes up for their own weird, sad reasons. I mean, 
it just doesn’t — none of that stuff exists. None of the 
mean, crazy stuff that people get called or the labels 
or the boxes that people get put in exists. Like, you’re 
the only one who can say who you are and be who 
you are. Nobody else knows what they’re talking 
about. 
 
 Apply now for 2015 and learn more about each program at usfca.edu/asgrad.  
 GRADU ATE PROGRAMS A T
UNIVERSITY OF 
SAN FRANCISC O
CHANGE THE WORLD FROM HERE MASTER’S PROGRAMS AT USF
> Analytics 
> Asia Paciﬁc Studies> Biology > Biotechnology > Collegiate Athletics > Computer Science > Development Economics > Economics > Environmental Management > International Studies> Public Aﬀairs > Sport Management > Urban Aﬀairs > Writing, MFA
ASCE.UCSD.E DUFor mor e informa tion, c ontact A SCE a t
avpconcerts@ucsd. edu or (858) 5 34-04 77FEBRU ARY 12
8:00PM a t THE L OFT
FREE f or UCSD UNDERGRAD SDANCE
DUFF MOVIE Q&A
UCSD Guardian: 
Mae Whitman: 
Robbie Arnell: 
Bella Thorne:Mae Whitman:
Bella, how did it feel playing a mean girl in 
the movie compared to most of your other 
preppy roles?Robbie and Mae, do you believe 
that “The DUFF” depicts what high school is really 
like today? Y ou probably know her as Katara 
from “ Avatar: The Last Airbender” 
or as Ann from “ Arrested Develop -
ment” (Wait, who was she again?), 
but Mae Whitman is now starring in 
the newest teen comedy movie, “The 
DUFF, ” about a girl who tries to save 
her image after being branded as her 
friends’ Designated Ugly Fat Friend. 
Whitman’s costars include Robbie 
Amell, who currently acts in “The 
Flash, ” and Bella Thorne, who is best 
known for starring in Disney Chan -
nel’s “Shake It Up. ” Here are their 
takes on “The DUFF. ”
UCSD Guardian: UCSD Guardian: 
Robbie Arnell:Interview by Jennifer Grundman // Staff Writer
Photo courtesy: Ace Showbiz 8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 9, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEA TURES
Live without regrets, 
                      Learn without borders.
Discover where you’ll study 
abroad at usac.unr.edu
studyabroadusac@
USAC
UC San Diego students, staff, faculty, and the public are invited to enjoy a taste of African-
American culture through home-cooked soul food, inspiring entertainment, and more!  
 General Admission is free.  Menu available for 
purchase. Complimentary dessert is included with the purchase of a full entrée.  
Special Gift for the first 100 guests! 
(starting at 11:30am) Wednesday • February 11, 2015
Canyon Vista Restaurant • Warren College
LUNCH SERVED 11AM - 2PM  
PROGRAM FROM NOON - 1:30PM  GENERATIONS   
of POSSIBILITIES
LOOKING BACK & MOVING FOR WARDHOUSING • DINING • HOSPITALITY PRESENTS
18TH ANNUAL BLACK HISTORY LUN CHEON
For more info,  please visit  
hdh.ucsd.edu/bhm
thinks being a busy graduate 
student also helps with thinking up 
unique artwork.
“I would say the best formula 
would be being delirious — sleep-
deprived,” Kwan said. “It makes you 
think of rea lly random, crazy stuff, 
and I think that’s one of the biggest 
contributions. Unfortunately.” 
Kwan’s long-term goal for 
Squidtoons is to see its illustrations 
used by teachers and professors to 
educate students.
“I would like to see [Squidtoons] 
become a major outreach avenue for 
professors and universities. It could 
be a major teaching tool to teachers, 
public schools or private schools 
— it doesn’t matter,” Kwan said. 
“And I want to see the expression 
of research and art and science to be 
more similar than distinct.”Although many of the artists 
working for Squidtoons are doing 
so voluntarily, Kwan hopes that he 
will be able to hire them full time 
and expand Squidtoons even more. 
He is looking to illustrate other 
scientists’ research so that a portion 
of their outreach grant funding can 
go back to Squidtoons which could 
then be used to pay the artists and 
keep the project afloat.
“I could see [Squidtoons] get -
ting bigger — a lot bigger — be -
cause it is growing as of now. A 
lot of places that we’ve never even 
heard of have contacted us and 
asked for a collaboration,” Song 
said. “So I feel like, at this rate, 
the amount of attention that we’re 
getting will continue to expand ex -
ponentially, mostly because we are 
receiving so much attention from 
all these new orgs.”Bringing Unique Humor to Marine Biology
▶ from page 6
Follow us on Twitter
@UCSDGUARDIAN
SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 9, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 9
Housed on campus in the basement of Mandeville Center, The Basement is UC San Diego’s 
latest entrepreneurial center and will serve as a gathering, collaborative and connective space for UC San Diego’s student entrepreneurs and innovators. At The Basement, you’ll find:
 THE BASEMENT IS OPEN FOR BUSINESS
TO LEARN MORE VISIT : UCSDBASEMENT.COMAlumni and Community  
Engagement would like  
to thank the following  
UC San Diego alumni for 
their leadership and  
inspiration in moving  
this big idea forward.
ARYEH BOURKOFF , ’95
and LionTree LLC
 
MARK SUSTER, ’91
and UpFront Ventures 
JEFF , ’83 AND KIM BELK
• 3,000 square feet of modern  
collaborative space  
• Conference room, lounge areas and  
activities to keep the ideas flowing  
 
• The new home of eChallenge  
 • Monthly events for students to  
share ideas, network and learn  
about entrepreneurship  
• Mentors and investors to help scale  
your businessof which came during the spree. 
With four minutes remaining and 
a two-point UCSD lead, the Wildcats 
went on a run of their own, outscoring 
UCSD 14–4 to squash the comeback 
attempt and close out the game. 
“We bounced back and continued 
to fight in the second half, ” Olen said. 
“I thought we showed a lot of resil -
iency and toughness to give ourselves 
a chance to win, but we ultimately 
didn’t make enough plays down the 
stretch to pull it out. ”
The Tritons were dominated on the 
glass and were outrebounded 31–18.
After some inconsistency to begin 
the season, sophomore guard Adam 
Klie finally seemed to have found his 
rhythm offensively. Despite the loss, he 
finished the night with 14 points and 
six rebounds. In the last five games, 
Klie has been averaging 15.4 points 
per game.
UCSD faced another tough team 
the following night in Cal State Stan -
islaus in a double-overtime thriller. 
With the game tied at 54 and 10 
seconds remaining in the first over -
time, Cal State Stanislaus hit a three 
to take a three-point lead. However, 
freshman guard George Buaku (11 
points on the night) answered right 
back, sinking a stunning 22-footer 
at the buzzer to force the game into 
another overtime. 
Down one with less than 15 sec -
onds remaining in the second frame of 
extra play, Cal State Stanislaus’ senior 
forward Chris Read hit a clutch pull-
up jumper over Klie to give Cal State 
Stanislaus the one-point lead. With 
no time-outs for either team and only 
five seconds remaining in the game, 
Walker was forced to take it down the 
length of the court, only to have his 
layup blocked at the buzzer.Again, the Tritons fell to an early 
nine-point hole but were able to cut 
the margin to one going into the 
break. Both teams struggled shooting 
the ball in the first half, with UCSD 
shooting 32 percent from the field and 
Cal State Stanislaus similarly hitting 
30.8 percent. The two squads were 
cold from deep, as well, combining for 
4–19 from three. 
In the second half, the Tritons 
and Warriors were back-and-forth. 
Down 50–49 in the final moments, 
Cal State Stanislaus could convert only 
one of three free throw opportunities, 
sending the game into the frenzied 
moments of overtime. 
“I’m really proud of our effort to -
night, ” Olen said. “We fought hard for 
50 minutes and unfortunately came up 
just a little short. ”
Klie had a game-high 17 points 
and brought down six rebounds. He 
also attempted a season-high five 
three-pointers and managed to con -
vert on two of them.
The pair of weekend losses was 
only more painful as the Tritons are 
neck-and-neck with both squads in 
league standings. UCSD falls to 10–6 
in conference, good fors fourth place 
in the California Collegiate Athletic 
Association, dropping from the previ -
ous week’s second-place spot. Chico 
State, Cal Poly Pomona and Sacra -
mento State are ahead. 
With only six games remaining in 
the season, UCSD still looks to finish 
strong and solidify the postseason 
standing. The Tritons will be on the 
road again next week when they go 
for the season sweep against San 
Francisco State (6–10) and Sonoma 
State (8–8).Men Drop to Fourth in Conference Standings  
▶ M. BASKETBALL ,  from page 12
pace, and we went down early and 
even though we tied it up with eight 
to go. I think that if we had that in -
tensity from the start in the first half 
of the game, we would have been 
much better off. ”
Shokoor recorded another double-
double on the season after clock -
ing in a pair of game-highs with 
22 points and 17 rebounds. Senior 
guard Miranda Seto had 11 points 
and senior guard Beth Mounier 
came off the bench for 12 points.
Next on Saturday,  UCSD gave 
no chance to Cal State Stanislaus 
in a dominant 72–53 win at Ed and 
Bertha Fitzpatrick Arena. 
The Tritons struggled early to 
contain their opponents from deep, 
as Stanislaus scored four con -
secutive from downtown to grab 
a 16–8 lead with 10:37 remaining 
in the first half. This time, UCSD 
answered back immediately with a 9–0 run, allowing them to reclaim 
the lead and eventually take a 
nine-point, 30–21 advantage into 
halftime.
“They put in a couple of threes, 
and we got our share of threes too 
and we came back, ” VanDerveer 
told the Guardian. “We had a little 
foul trouble, but we got out. Every -
body in this league really does com -
pete, and we have to make sure that 
we compete at the highest level. ” 
UCSD continued to stretch the 
lead after halftime, as the Warriors 
could not get within 10 points of 
the Tritons, who went on to win by 
19 points. 
The Tritons’ dominance on de -
fense (32.8-percent shooting for the 
Warriors) and rebounding (43–26 
advantage on the boards) played 
largely into the 72–53 final score. 
UCSD also shot 90.9 percent from 
the free-throw line on 33 attempts 
while the Warriors were at a dismal 
45.5 percent on only 11 attempts. “I think that any time you can 
come back, especially from a quick 
turnaround like that (after the 
defeat to Chico State) — [is] good, ” 
VanDerveer said. “I think we came 
out, got off in a good start. I put in 
four guards, and we adjusted. ”
Shokoor put in another strong 
performance against Cal State 
Stanislaus, scoring 14 points and 
grabbing 19 rebounds for her 11th 
double-double of the season. Senior 
forward McKennan Bertsch had 10 
points on 5–7 shooting.
The Tritons will continue on the 
road next week and take on San 
Francisco State (0–20 and 0–16 in the 
CCAA) on Friday at 5:30 p.m. and 
Sonoma State (6–14 and 4–12 in the 
CCAA) on Saturday, also at 5:30 p.m. 
Both games will be crucial for the Tri -
tons in their tightly contested march 
toward the playoffs.Fifth-Place Tritons Will Next Face Lower-Seeded CCAA Foes
▶ W. BASKETBALL ,  from page 12
readers can contact
Marcus  Thuillier    mthuilli@ucsd.edu 
readers can contact
Daniel SUng    d2sung@ucsd.edu PHOTO BY ALWIN SZETO / GUARDIAN FILE10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 9, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG CLASSIFIEDS
CLASSIFIEDS$
Guar dian Classi/f_ieds ar e FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifieds
crossword
ACROSS
1 Dogie-catching tool5 Looking like you’ve seen a ghost10 Poi base14 “Iliad” or “Odyssey”15 Not a soul16 Greek war god17 Scope of a thorough search19 Rod’s companion20 Sweater wool21 Mythical city of gold23 Ottoman governor24 Nightmare street of movies26 One having a little lamb27 Scope of a thorough search33 Planetary shadow36 Thinks (over) carefully37 Partner of a tournament “am”38 Chat39 Roman senators’ attire40 Immense41 Previously42 Pine product43 Headquartered44 Scope of a thorough search47 Walking on __: elated48 Doo-wop horn49 Play segment52 Gloria Steinem, notably57 Home beverage counter with a sink59 One with burning pants?60 Scope of a thorough search62 Very dry63 Up in arms64 Bad day for Caesar65 Lottery-like game66 Dressed like a superhero67 Keeps after taxesDOWN1 Post-op treatment2 Offer one’s view3 Word with bank or back4 Canyon phenomenon5 Historical records6 Instant lawn7 Digger’s creation8 Carbon compound9 Renegotiated contracts10 Paved11 Vicinity12 Physician Walter for whom an Army hospital is named13 Norway’s capital18 Venue for games22 Has title to25 Champagne and orange juice cocktail27 Bug28 Made trenches29 Spiral-horned antelopes30 Numbered work31 Encourage32 __ the line: obeyed33 Brigham City’s state34 Wise men35 Stain39 Fabulous40 Solo played by Harrison42 Jockey strap43 Put in cartons45 Arrangement of locks46 Acted sleepy49 Put up with50 West Point undergrad51 Rapunzel feature52 Anti-aircraft fire53 Emerald Isle54 Common street name55 “Nobody doesn’t like __ Lee”56 Mouth, in slang58 Duplicate61 Had lunchBIKES
Like New Phat Cycles Women’s Beach 
Cruiser - $200. Beach cruiser bike in excel -
lent “like new” condition. Always garage kept - no rust. Includes bike bell. Bike is 1 yr old. Listing ID: 117921179 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Fit Eddie 2 20” - $250. I bought this bike 
a few years ago, and barely used it. I am asking $250 or best offer. It’s a great bike. Listing ID: 117921178 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Kettcar - $80. Kettcar good condition. 
Ketter Pedalcar Pedal Car Bike Trike. Listing ID: 117921177 at ucsdguardian.org/clas
-
sifieds for more information
ELECTRONICS
Photography Equipment for Sale - $250. Photography equipment for sale. Everything in picture. Will not ship. I will meet a local church if deal is made. Listing ID: 115092942 at ucsdguardian.org/clas
-
sifieds for more information
6ft 2-pin Power Cord with Both Rounded-
off Ends 8-Shaped 2 Prong AC Adapter - $14.99. 6-ft power cable with 2 female connectors and both rounded ends. Printer laptop audio electric cord. 8-shaped 2 prong air conditioner power cord un-polar
-
ized. Electric cord colors may vary in black, grey, white. Six feet long, seven Amp, 125 Volt, 875W. Two rounded openings. Listing ID: 119258498 at ucsdguardian.org/classi
-
fieds for more information1998 Challenger Bass Boat No Motor - $3400. It’s a nice 1998 Challenger Bass Boat. 19ft. comes from Arizona. Never been on salt water. Needs outboard motor. Listing ID: 117668813 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information Sony HDR-XR150 High Def Camcorder - $300. This is an excellent camcorder, with 120 gig internal hard drive. This camcorder also has one of the largest optical zooms of any video camera - 25x optical zoom. It has face-detection and smile-shutter; much easier to follow someone when you’re videotaping them. Listing ID: 119258496 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
FURNITURE
Step 2 Fire Engine Toddler Bed Left Replacement Part (Fire Truck Bed LEFT Piece) - $35. Step two fire engine toddler bed left side replacement part. Firetruck part number 7950. Red toddler bed used replacement part in fantastic condition with original decals. 47-½” wide, 20-½” long, 10-½” high. Listing ID: 119258506 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Step 2 Art Master Desk 36W x 20D x 33 
H - $20. Step two art master toddler desk. Sturdy toddler desk for creative play activi
-
ties. Features large work surface, molded-in compartments, hinged dry-erase writing surface, lots of storage area, raised shelf for supplies. Great for ages 3 to 7 yrs old. Chair NOT included. Note: minor crayon markings, paint spots, and some wear on the white lid. 25in high for desk top, 33in high to the highest point of the desk. Listing ID: 119258505 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more informationMod
-
ern White Side Table - $55. Ceramic white gloss. Approximately 14”d x 21”h. Listing ID: 117668770 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information 
Vintage Retro 1950s Kidney Shape Mosaic 
Coffee Table - $475. Vintage Retro Mosaic Coffee table from the 1950s. Med Century style. Pink, blue and brown with gold gild
-
ing tiles. Some scratches on the aluminum edge. A mounting corner has broken off two of the legs but does not affect sturdi
-
t
your visio n,
our missio n.
outfitters@ucsd.eduCreate custom a pparel to 
promote your student 
organiza tion with Triton 
Outfitter's new Made TO Order program!
LECTURENOTES
IS HIRING
NOTETAKERS
FOR SPRING ‘ 15
(STARTING 6th WEEK!)
Pick up an applicati on at
Lectu re Not es in the
Student Center
Must have 3.0 or bet ter
Applic ation & SAM PLE NO TES
 are du e Wed of fi nals week
as-lecture-notes@ucsd.edu
ucsdguardian.org
get informed...READ
EVERY MONDAY & THURSDAY
visit
more content... new, bold look!
ucsdguardian.org
more content...
new, bold look!
more
content...ucsdguardian.org
bold, new
look!ucsdguardian.org
ness and is not visible. One leg has been repaired and all three are repainted flat black and are made of a heavy metal con
-
struction. Very cool vintage kidney shaped table. Stands approximately 14in tall. Is 24in wide at widest part and approximately 46in long. Listing ID: 117921194 at ucsdguard
-
ian.org/classifieds for more informationCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 9, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
BLACK LEGACY MURAL  RECEPTION
PRICE CENTER EAST, 1ST FLOORWED2.11 • 5pmTahrirCAMPUS
CALENDAR
FEB 09 - FEB 152015 POWERED BY THE CHANCELLOR’S OFFICE AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guar dian
Calendar
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar @
ucsdgu ardian .orgMON2.09 WED2.11 TUE2.10
12pm
YOU MAJORED IN WHAT?  MAPPING YOUR 
CAREER PATH - BLACK RESOURCE CENTER
Part of the event series "The Real World Career 
Series: Building Skills for a Diverse Interconnected Community," presented by the Career Services Center, the Cross-Cultural Center, the Ethnic Studies 
Department, the UCSD Women's Center, the UCSD 
Black Resource Center, the UCSD Raza Resource 
Centro, and the LGBT Resource Center.
2pm
HUNGRY FOR HEALTHY: DRAGON NOODLES- 
THE ZONE
Join us this week for Hungry For Healthy! Today, 
come join us as we make Dragon Noodles with the 
SHS Registered Dietician! Materials and ingredients 
are provided. Hungry For Healthy is a free program 
here at The Zone, but space is limited, so it is first come, first served.
3pm
LIFE WITH ETHNIC SERIES PANEL - PC WEST, 
ERC ROOM
Part of the event series "The Real World Career 
Series: Building Skills for a Diverse Interconnected 
Community," presented by the Career Services 
Center, the Cross-Cultural Center, the Ethnic Studies 
Department, the UCSD Women's Center, the UCSD Black Resource Center, the UCSD Raza Resource Centro, and the LGBT Resource Center.
5pm
REVELLE IN ROME GLOBAL SEMINAR- 
OCEANIDS PAVILION 
Interested in spending 5 weeks in Rome, Italy this 
summer? Come to our info session to learn more 
about program's courses and steps to apply!
7pm
SOUTHEAST ASIA: DEMOCRACY, 
DEVELOPMENT, AND ECONOMIC CRISIS-  GREAT HALL, I HOUSE
Since then South East Asia has experienced both 
advances and setbacks in their efforts to reform economically, politically and socially. Professors Richard Carney and Terence Gomez will examine 
how the countries of this region have rebounded, or 
tried to rebound, from the crisis.11am
ALL YOU NEED IS LOVE - THE ZONE
Love is in the air! Come out to the Zone on 
February 11th for some cool food and prizes while 
exploring healthy relationships and partner 
communication.
2:30pm
CAREER CONVERSATIONS MEET UPS - LGBT 
RESOURCE CENTER
Informal and fun career chats with Roxanne 
Farkas, Career Advisor (all of Winter Quarter)
4pm
R&R SQUAD - THE ZONE
The R&R Squad is in! Come in and de-stress with 
a massage! Learn more about our well-being 
resources on campus while get a 5-10 minute 
low-intensity back, neck, and arm massage from 
one of our trained wellness peers!
5pm
FLAMENCO & GITANO CULTURE IN SPAIN 
GLOBAL SEMINAR- INTERNATIONAL CENTER, 
OCEANIDS PAVILION
Interested in spending 5 weeks in Cadiz, Spain 
this summer? Come to our info session to learn more about program's courses and steps to apply!
FRI2.13
11am
FITNESS ZONE: AB-SOLUTE CORE - THE ZONE
Take time to AB-solutely crush and strength your core - your abdomen, back, and hips. Suitable for any fitness level.
5pm
UCSD GUARDIAN WINTER RECRUITMENT INFO 
SESSION - GUARDIAN OFFICE, OLD STUDENT CENTER, 2ND FLOOR
Join the Guardian! With its six content sections, 
writers gain access to San Diego’s wide array of live concerts, restaurants, and interviews with UCSD staff! A professional portfolio comes with joining the Guardian. Other sections open: Ads, Art, Copy, Design and Photo. Free newspapers and food!
8:20pm
WARREN 20’S  SEMI-FORMAL DANCE - 
MUSEUM OF CONTEMPORARY ART, DOWNTOWN LA JOLLA
WCSC EBoard Presents Warren 20's Semi-Formal - 
it's not just a dance, it's an experience! Valentine's Day is coming up, but don’t fret; Warren 20's is near! Come enjoy a 20's themed Semi Formal Dance feat. DJ: Brwn Viper. Free Transportation! Free Fortune Telling! Free Music! Free Food!10am
FITSTOP - THE ZONE
This FREE fitness assessment measures a person's level of fitness compared to others in the same age group. No appointment is necessary.
11am
FITNESS ZONE: YOGA - THE ZONE
This class will move from one pose to the next. 
Classes take on a life of their own with the 
culmination of collective energy, movement & breath.
2pm
DE-STRESS POWER HOUR - THE ZONE
While you wait for the R&R Squad chair massage, 
check out Biofeedback with the CAPS Wellness Peer Educators as they measure how your body reacts under stress and what to do when under stress.
4pm
QTPOC AFTER COLLEGE: A CONVERSATION ON 
POWER & PRIVELEGE AFTER COLLEGE - LGBT 
RESOURCE CENTER
Part of the event series "The Real World Career Series: 
Building Skills for a Diverse Interconnected 
Community," presented by the Career Services Center, 
the Cross-Cultural Center, the Ethnic Studies 
Department, the UCSD Women's Center, the UCSD Black Resource Center, the UCSD Raza Resource Centro, and the LGBT Resource Center.
6pm
DARWIN DAY - PC WEST, BALLROOM A
BSSA and SQ are celebrating Charles Darwin's birthday! We’ll be hosting two guest speakers, free carnival games with prizes, a raffle, and food 
including cake! We’re also accepting bio themed art 
submissions for phenomenal prizes!
8pm
ADVWAVE SERVICE AUCTION FUNDRAISER - PC 
THEATER
Adwave, the premier marketing and advertising 
organization on campus, is auctioning off a wide range of services to fund for our National Student Advertising Competition! Services include: Homemade 
Dinner, Personalized Artwork, 2-night stays at a 
NorCal Cabin...and much more!
SAT2.14
5am
SKI & RIDE MOUNTAIN HIGH - MOUNTAIN HIGH
Take a break and carve it up at Mountain High, the best nearby boarding and skiing to campus. Let Outback take care of the driving. The lifts are open 8:00-4:30 (Bear/Summit), 8:30-4:00 (Mountain High). We will leave before dawn for the drive to catch early lifts before the mountain gets busy and sun warms it up. It is early, but you can sleep in the van.
SUN2.15
10am
VOLUNTEER AT ROGER’S COMMUNITY GARDEN- 
ROGER’S COMMUNITY GARDEN IN REVELLE
Want to learn how to garden? Want to get you hands 
dirty at UCSD? Looking to clock in those community service hours? Well, come out to Roger's Community Garden behind the Che Cafe and the Wagner Dance building in Revelle College! up. It is early, but you can sleep in the van.THU2.12
5am
RADICAL LOVE: THINKING OUTSIDE OF THE 
NORM- CROSS CULTURAL CENTER
What do you think of when you hear the word "love"? 
Let's challenge the norm and talk about different kinds of love: familial, platonic, communal, and queer. Join us as we discuss these topics, and learn about 
the most radical love of all - self love . 
Make yourself a candy gram while sipping on some 
hot chocolate and eating some desserts!
10am
MEDITATION - THE ZONE
Recharge your mind and body. Practice a variety of meditation techniques to achieve greater mental clarity and a peaceful state of being..
1:30pm
THERAPY FLUFFIES - THE ZONE
Woof! Come relax and de-stress with fun-loving, certified therapy dogs every week!
3pm
PASSPORT TO CULTURE: BRAZIL - I HOUSE 
LOUNGES, CUZCO
Learn about life and culture in other countries and 
states from current international and out-of-state students. Enjoy a traditional taste of food from the highlighted region each week! Come earn your passport and travel around the world.
5pm
CANDLE LIGHT YOGA - THE ZONE
Stretch, relax, and release your day. Enjoy an evening of stress relieving yoga set to candle light, focusing on postures to refresh your body and mind.
6pm
SEX & CHOCOLATE - GREEN TABLE ROOM, PC 
WEST
Come join the Student Health Advocates for a fun 
event all about sex! Get ready for Valentine's Day with tips and chocolate!
ASCE PRESENTS:
VALENTINE’S DANCE:  
XOXO
Thursday, Feb. 12 
Doors: 8pm
The Loft • FREE
BLACK HISTORY MONTH:
JOSHUA WHITE 
+POLYPHASE
FT. REBECCA JADE
Friday, Feb. 13 
Doors: 7:30pm • Show: 8pm
The Loft •  Free  for UCSD 
Students; $10 Gen eralUpco min g at
Upco min g attheloft.ucsd.edu
univ ersitycenters .ucsd.eduLE
FRIDAYSROUND TABLE
FRIDAYSRound Table Fridays: 
DVC
Friday , Feb. 13 
Round Table Plaza • FREELILY + MADEL EINE 
AND PAPA
Wednesday, Feb. 11  
Doors: 8 pm Show: 8:30pm
The Loft • $5 UCSD Students; 
$10 GeneralACTA PRESENTS:
FIND MY VALENTINE
Tuesday, Fe b. 10 
Doors: 7pm
The Loft • F REE
The UCSD women’s basket -
ball team was defeated 76–70 on 
Friday night by Chico State (8–12 
overall and 5–11 in the California 
Collegiate Athletic Association) 
but got back on track on Saturday 
in a 72–53 thrashing of Cal State 
Stanislaus (6–14 overall and 4–12 
in the CCAA). The Tritons now 
hold a 12–9 overall record and are 
in sole possession of fifth place in 
the conference with a 10–6 record 
in the CCAA. 
The Tritons went up 4–2 early 
on against Chico State after junior 
forward Farrah Shokoor scored 
two layups in the opening minutes. 
However, Chico State took over 
from then on out, answering with 
a 6–0 run and an 8–0 run. UCSD’s 
deficit reached 20 points when the 
Wildcats went up 42–22 on the 
Tritons with 2:36 left remaining in 
the first half. The home team would settle for a 17-point advantage after 
20 minutes as UCSD trailed 44–27 
going into the break. 
UCSD came back strong and 
determined after halftime and cut 
the deficit to six after an 11–0 run. 
The Tritons continued to creep 
back into the game and eventually 
tied the game up at 55 apiece with 
only 7:31 left in the game. The score 
stayed close until the Wildcats blew 
the game open with two three-
pointers to take a defining 69–62 
lead that ultimately led to a bitter 
76–70 UCSD loss.
UCSD could not stop the Wildcats’ 
hot shooting from beyond the arc, as 
Chico State made seven threes at a 
very high 43.8-percent rate.
“We did not come out with the 
intensity that we needed to, and 
Chico [State] is a power team 
and we didn’t match their inten -
sity, ” UCSD head coach Heidi 
VanDerveer said. “They had high SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
BRANDON  YU
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 9, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
BASEBALL SOFTBALL
2015 is an exciting year for the UCSD’s baseball and softball programs. A newly renovated Triton Ballpark has been un -
veiled just in time for the start of the Tritons’ respective seasons, and both squads appear to have serious potential to make 
a run in NCAAs come May. Both programs have consistently maintained a formidable national presence, and the new year 
looks to be no different. Take a look at the UCSD Guardian’s preview for both teams in the new year.
The Team:  In the 2015 campaign, the Tritons are a completely new team. After having an 
all-around stellar ensemble just one year ago (34–18 overall), UCSD has taken the field this 
season with no more than two regular starters outside of the pitching mound from 2014. The 
Tritons have numerous gaps to fill with six of the seven starters who batted over 0.300 having 
departed, primarily to graduation. With only two seniors, who have seen virtually no playing 
time, and the addition of seven freshmen and two transfers, the Tritons may need time to 
find their groove as a newly revamped and inexperienced squad. Though capable veterans 
in junior second baseman McKenna Clewett (0.372 batting in 2014) and junior left-hander 
and ace on the mound Alexis Edwards (2.12 ERA, 19–10 record) are still present, UCSD still 
lacks the depth and poised maturity it had just one year earlier. However, the talent is still 
there, and a strong 5–1 start to the season thus far still indicates potential and promise. 
The Coaches:  At the helm is longtime UCSD head coach Patti Gerckens who enters 
her 23rd season as the shot-caller. Gerckens is no stranger to success, having consecutively 
brought the Tritons to the NCAA national championship game in 2011 and 2012 and 
winning the national title, the first in the program’s history, in her team’s 2011 appearance. 
Gerckens is joined by her associate head coach Jessica Millsap and two assistant coaches 
Kris Lesovsky and Camille Gaito. Millsap worked specifically with the pitchers of the 2011 
national champion team and helped build a rotation that had one of the lowest combined 
ERAs (1.44) in the nation. Levosky and Gaito were both crucial players themselves on the 
same 2011 Triton team that earned the national crown. With championship-caliber guid -
ance, this year’s inexperienced group has the potential to rise up as a strong contender. 
The Outlook:  On paper, the Tritons have little evidence to prove themselves as an auto -
matic NCAAs qualifier. And the youth of this new team may indicate that 2015 is a rebuild -
ing year — a time to foster potential and talent for future seasons. But much has always been 
expected from the respected status of UCSD’s softball program, and Gerckens is certainly 
intent on upholding that tradition of success. The Tritons still have a foundation of reliable 
players, and if the new generation proves their worth early on, there is little reason to ques -
tion the aims for another winning season. UCSD was pegged to finish fourth out of the Cali -
fornia Collegiate Athletic Association’s 10 teams in a coaches’ conference poll, but a higher 
finish can be achieved. Ultimately, the blue and gold is likely to qualify for NCAA Regionals, 
but the big dance is where their lack of experience and depth might catch up to them.The Team:  Much like the softball team’s 2015 lineup, the UCSD baseball team fields 
a younger group this season, with 14 freshmen joining the team. However, with a large 
45-player roster, the 2015 squad is still undoubtedly stacked with talent and experience. 
With standouts like junior infielder/right-handed pitcher Troy Cruz and sophomore 
outfielder Brandon Shirley returning with plenty of playing time ahead of them, the 
Tritons have both depth and youth on their side. UCSD also has capable starters on the 
mound, including superstar Cruz (8–3 record in 2014), with a well-rounded bullpen in 
relief as well. The Tritons lost a handful of impressive and clutch players to graduation 
last year, but a remaining crop of star athletes have full potential to exceed last season’s 
abilities. 
The Coaches:  Eric Newman returns in 2015 for his fourth year as the Triton head 
coach, winning his 100th game under the program in UCSD’s recent series against 
Western Oregon University. Newman boasts a 0.602 win percentage overall since 
taking over at UCSD. The Tritons also retained assistant coaches Rob Avila (pitching 
coach/top assistant), Cory Burleson (outfielders) and J.T. Bloodworth, while welcom -
ing former Triton star Nick La Face for the 2015 season. La Face was a catcher and 
designated hitter for the team from 2010–14 and averaged 0.300 at the plate over the 
course of his career and will cover the first-base position in his first year coaching with 
the Tritons.
The Outlook:  Even after losing standout names on the roster, the Tritons will be seri -
ous contenders for the CCAA title and multiple round success in the NCAAs. Last year, 
the team went 38–16 overall and 26–10 in the CCAAs, making it deep into the post -
season. The Tritons lost two straight to Chico State in the NCAA West Regionals, who 
they beat twice in the conference championship, to end the 2014 campaign in the last 
game at the old Triton Ballpark. The ending result of last season was respectable but still 
far from what UCSD knows it’s capable of. This year, the blue and gold have as high of 
expectations as ever and rightfully so. From a powerful starting lineup to an elite starting 
rotation of pitchers to a deep bullpen of relievers, the Tritons are looking to do seri -
ous damage in 2015. And after a decent 4–2 start to the year, it appears evident that the 
Tritons — freshmen and veterans alike — have already bought into the coaching staff ’s 
scheme for success. 
MEN'S  BASKETBALL
Bitter League Losses Come on the Road
Basketball suffers two hard-luck losses against top-seeded CCAA contenders, 
falling to Chico State 72–64 and to Cal State Stanislaus 67–66 in double-overtime.WOMEN'S  BASKETBALL
Tritons Split Road Games
UCSD fails to secure the win against Chico State on 
Friday but defeats Cal State Stanislaus on Saturday.
Facing a pair of the conference’s 
top teams on the road this past week -
end, the UCSD men’s basketball team 
suffered a 72–64 loss to Chico State 
(13–3) and a heart-wrenching 67–66 
double-overtime loss to Cal State 
Stanislaus (11–5).
The Chico State Wildcats got 
payback on Friday night, avenging 
their 16-point loss against the Tritons 
earlier this season — its worst confer -
ence defeat in two seasons. 
Chico State took control of the 
game right from tip-off. Hot shooting 
from Chico State put the Tritons at 
an early 15-point disadvantage. The 
Wildcats’ defense denied any offensive 
momentum for the Tritons in the first 
period, holding them to only 40-per -
cent shooting and 1–5 from behind 
the arc. The Tritons’ 16 total attempts 
from three-point territory was the second-lowest all season. The Wildcats 
had a 13-point lead going into the half.
“They came out with a lot of 
energy and were the more aggressive 
team in the first half, ” UCSD head 
coach Eric Olen told the UCSD Ath -
letics Department. 
The second half was much of the same story up until the halfway 
mark. Down by 15 points, the Tritons 
went on a 21–5 run to quickly erase 
the deficit and take a one-point lead. 
Junior guard Hunter Walker scored a 
team-high 15 points in the contest, 11 B Y  Daniel Sung
senior staff writerB Y  Marcus Thuillier
editorial assistant
ready  for the  
ballp ark
PHOTO BY BEATRIZ BAJUELOS / GUARDIAN FILEBY BRANDON YU SPORTS EDITOR // JOHN STORY ASSOCIATE SPORTS EDITOR  
DESIGN BY JOSELYNN ORDAZ  // DESIGN EDITOR
PHOTOS BY ALWIN SZETO // SIDDHARTH ATRE  
readers can contact
john stor y    jstory@ucsd.edu
Brandon yu   bcyu@ucsd.edu W. Tennis
Softball
Baseball
M. Volleyball
M. Basketball     2/11
     2/13
     2/13
     2/13     
     2/14VS Point Loma
VS San Francisco State
VS San Francisco State
VS Pepperdine
AT Sonoma StateUPCOMING
UCSD
GAMES
See M.BASKETBALL , page 9 See W.BASKETBALL , page 9