VOLUME 49, ISSUE 18   MONDA Y , NOVEMBER 23, 2015  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
HOW TO 
STUDENT
THE FIRST QUARTER AT UCSD 
CAN BE A WAKE-UP CALL. 
STUDENTS OFTEN STRUGGLE 
WITH ADAPTING TO COLLEGE.
LEARN ABOUT THE FIRST AND 
TRANSFER YEAR EXPERIENCE 
PROGRAM YOU WISH YOU HAD.
SELECTIVE  MOURNING
THREE  IN  A  ROWoverlooking  the  east
m.  w a ter  polo  wwp a  champsopinion,  P age   4
sports,  P age  12
MONDAY
H 73 L 54TUESDAY
H 66 L 54
WEDNESDAY
H 61 L 50THURSDAY
H 61 L 46
FORECAST
VERBATIM
SAY THIS WITH US: I AM THE 
VOICE OF ALL-KNOWING 
TRUTH, WISDOM AND 
FAIRNESS. THERE IS NO ROOM 
FOR SUBJECTIVITY OR NUANCE 
IN JOURNALISM. FACTS 
ARE FACTS AND IT IS YOUR 
RESPONSIBILITY AS A PRINT 
PUBLICATION TO PROCLAIM 
THIS MORAL STANDARD...”
- GET BACK FUNDING
HOW-TO GURU
OPINION , PAGE 4
INSIDE
UC RESEARCH  ................ 2
FACEBOOK FILTERS  ......... 4
PROFESSOR LERER  ......... 6
CLASSIFIEDS  ................ 10
W. VOLLEYBALL  ............ 12“Fea tures,  P AGE  6
ILLUSTRATION BY ALEX LIANG
UCSD A.S. Concerts and Events 
announced last Wednesday that they 
will postpone their Nov. 23 screening 
of “Straight Outta Compton” until 
the upcoming Winter Quarter 2016. 
ASCE explained that the delay will 
allow enough time to properly add 
an educational dimension to the 
screening.
In their Nov. 18 press release on 
Facebook, ASCE said that they wanted 
to create a safe and welcoming place 
for students who come to their events, 
and thus felt that the postponement 
will enable them to do so.
ASCE’s decision to postpone the 
screening originated from a thread 
on their Facebook event page on which a student proposed adding an 
educational discussion portion to the 
event. This sparked a heated debate 
over whether or not ASCE should 
implement the idea. 
Opponents of the proposition 
think that adding a discussion 
portion to an event meant originally 
for entertainment is superfluous and 
that students should be capable of 
digesting the cultural significance and 
impact of the film on their own. 
However, supporters of the idea 
think that adding a discussion will 
help students examine perspectives 
they may not have considered before 
and will bring awareness to the 
struggles minorities and marginalized 
communities face today. 
After considering the feedback 
from that thread, ASCE decided that 
a dialogue discussing the various issues and cultural significance the 
film touched upon would improve the 
viewing experience.
“The issues presented in this 
film are complex, and we want to 
ensure that we deal with them justly 
by investing time and energy to 
bring them to light, ” ASCE wrote. 
“We believe that investing time and 
energy into planning this event in an 
educational format is a tangible way 
for us to work toward that goal. ”
Associate Vice President of 
Concerts and Events Christian Walker 
explained to the UCSD Guardian how 
this decision was partly influenced by 
students and faculty members.
“The decision was made after 
receiving feedback from several 
members of our campus community, A.S. Council Votes to Cut 
Funding for Student Media
Members of A.S. Council voted to defund all campus 
media publications receiving money from student 
fees on Nov. 18.
Assistant Vice President of Equity, Diversion and 
Inclusion Daniel Juarez proposed to remove Section 2.4 D, E 
and F from the A.S. constitution regarding financial support 
to UCSD media publications. A.S. Council’s discussion 
included arguments that A.S. Council is partially responsible 
for all publications they fund, whether negative or positive, 
and that other universities do not fund media. Though a 
number of A.S. Council members initially opposed this 
motion, the final standing vote was a 22-3-0 roll call vote in 
favor of Juarez’s proposal.
The Koala’s editor-in-chief Gabe Cohen disagreed 
with A.S. Council’s decision and believes it is an overly 
authoritative decision that stems from differences in opinion. 
“The A.S. vote to cut all media funding, which came 
a day after the administration’s statement denouncing 
The Koala, is troubling, ” Cohen said. “Part of attending a 
university is learning through considering opinions and 
voices that differ from your own, which you might not agree 
with. Cutting funding to print media is a slippery slope in 
the direction of anti-intellectualism and paternalism that 
should have no place on this campus. ”A.S. President Dominick Suvonnasupa declared that this 
vote does not infringe on First Amendment rights. 
“One thing we talked about [was] how does this work 
with freedom of speech, ” Suvonnasupa stated. “We still 
encourage all of our students to express their opinions and 
find outlets, say what they want to say, share their ideas. 
However, we just didn’t think it was the best use of our 
resources to be funding that. ”
However, Cohen remarked that he believes A.S. Council’s 
vote has greater implications and that, overall, their decision 
silences student voices.
“The decision sends a dangerous message to the campus 
which is essentially, ‘if we don’t like what you’re saying, we’ll 
do everything we can to shut you up, even if that means 
harming innocents in the process, ’” Cohen said.
Hours before A.S. Council’s meeting, the UC San Diego 
administration publicly denounced The Koala, a publication 
the administration referred to as “profoundly repugnant, 
repulsive, attacking and cruel. ” The public statement asked 
students, faculty and other members of the community to 
also censure The Koala.
Vice Chancellor of Student Affairs Juan Gonzalez read 
the statement at the A.S. Council meeting approximately 
an hour before the vote. In addition, Deliantra Alcauter of   B Y  julie yip   Editorial AssistantResMed, Inc. 
Donates $5 
Million to 
UniversitySCHOOL OF MEDICINE AROUND CAMPUS
STUDENT GOVERNMENT  The University of California 
donated $500,000 in 
additional funding for a new 
sleep apnea research program.
BY   K a r l y   N i s s o n
Contributing Writer
See SLEEP , page 2Medical device company ResMed 
Inc. donated $5 million to the UCSD 
School of Medicine on Oct. 29. The 
gift, presented in honor of Peter 
C. Farrell, Ph.D., DSc., founder of 
ResMed and chairman of the board, 
will go toward furthering sleep-
medicine research and developing 
new therapies for sleep apnea. 
ResMed Inc. is a global company 
that specializes in the development of 
medical devices and treatments that 
target chronic respiratory diseases. 
The company’s $5 million gift will 
establish both the Peter C. Farrell 
Sleep Center of Excellence and 
Peter C. Farrell Presidential Chair in 
Pulmonary Medicine. 
Atul Malhotra, director of the Sleep 
Medicine Center at UCSD Health 
and division chief of pulmonary and 
critical care medicine, told the UCSD 
Guardian that the $5 million will be 
allocated to program development. 
“There are two components 
to the $5 million dollar gift: $1.5 
million goes toward endowed 
chairs, ” Malhotra said. “The Office 
of the President of the University of 
California matched it with $500,000, 
so it’s a total of $2 million toward 
an endowed chair, which we’ll use 
to support current faculty or recruit 
new faculty with expertise in sleep 
medicine. The other $3.5 million 
we’re going to use to develop new 
programs; we’re still discussing what 
those might involve. ”
The endowed chairs are 
presented to those individuals who 
have demonstrated exceptional 
scholarship through groundbreaking 
accomplishments in their field. 
Funding will be provided for  the 
chairholders’ academic endeavors 
and contribute to graduate and post-
doctoral fellowships. In addition, 
funding distributed to the endowed 
chair will also help recruit a world 
expert in sleep medicine.
The $3.5 million allocated to 
new programs will support studies 
associated with sleep apnea, a 
frequently undiagnosed condition 
affecting 30 million people in the 
United States. Increased blood 
pressure, Type 2 diabetes and 
depression have all been linked to 
sleep apnea. 
Malhotra explained to the 
Guardian that new programs may 
focus on chronic diseases connected 
to sleep apnea.
“We’ve got some interest in 
perioperative medicine and chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease and 
how they are affected by sleep apnea, ” 
Malhotra said. “We have some global 
health initiatives here; we’re trying Film Screening on Hold After Web Controversy
A.S. Concerts and Events will no longer be showing “Straight Outta Compton” Monday.See MEDIA , page 3
See  ASCE , page 3CAMPUS
BY   a n d r e w   c h a o
Staff Writer
Members of the UCSD community showcased a variety of cultures at the annual International Fashion Show and Cultural 
Festival at the International Center last week. Photo by Geoff Palomino /UCSD Guardian2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 23, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
A COUPLE OF DERPS By Elyse Yang
CalCopyUCSD@gmail.comLowest
Prices POSTER PRINTINGPRINT/COPY FILES
''	%Fastest
Service
LECTURENOTESIS HIRING
NOTETAKERS
FOR WINTER ‘16
Pick up an application at
Lecture No tes in the
Student Center or
lecturenotes.ucsd.edu
Must have 3.0 or be tter
Earn $10.00 per hour
Appli cation & SA MPLE N OTES
     are due WEDNESDAY
           of f inals wee k
as-lecture-notes@ucsd.edu
MORE INFO AT SOVAC.UCSD.EDU/REGISTERThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. Jacky is on a MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2015 
with Jackie...upMONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 2015s coming 
in the next issue.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Interim Marketing Director
Peter McInnis
Training and Development Manager
Cedric Hyon
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Vincent Pham
Rosina Garcia
Tina Butoiu
Kriti Sarin
Jacky To
Cassia Pollock 
Marcus Thuillier
Allison Kubo
Kyle Somers
Karly Nisson
Brittney Lu
Olga Golubkova
Jonathan Gao
Megan Lee
Joselynn Ordaz
Sherman Aline
Elyse Yang
Christina Carlson
Jennifer GrundmanEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
 
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
Associate Features Editor
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editor
Associate Art Editor
Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Sherman Aline, Allison Kubo
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim
Editorial Assistants
Sage Schubert Christian, Katie Potts, Christian Duarte, Julie Yip
to develop awareness and do some 
advocacy in developing countries. ”
The Peter C. Farrell Sleep Center of 
Excellence will investigate the causes 
and treatments of sleep disorders, 
an area of research that has been 
enhanced by recent technological 
advances in sleep monitoring.
Malhotra explains that the sleep 
center will pursue studies and clinical trials that target specific causes and 
long-term effects of sleep apnea.
“We do some clinical trials and 
observational studies and we do 
some more detailed mechanistic 
research regarding why some people 
get sleep apnea and others do 
not, ” Malhotra said. “We’re trying 
to develop new therapies for sleep 
apnea and understand why sleep 
apnea patients get cardiovascular 
disease and other complications. ”The support from private 
company ResMed will also help 
establish the UCSD School of 
Medicine as a leading center for 
treatment of sleep apnea. 
“ A large gift from a donor sends 
a good message that the expertise 
we’ve developed is being recognized 
by people who choose what we we 
have to offer, ” Malhotra said. “It 
also provides us the opportunity to 
take things to the next level. I’m reasonably confident that this will 
help us become a leading center in 
sleep medicine in the coming years. ”
This gift will promote advances in 
sleep disorder treatments both locally 
and globally, improving treatment 
methods for San Diego patients and 
contributing to a comprehensive 
understanding of such diseases.$3.5 Million of  Private Donations to Directly Fund New Sleep Apnea Research Studies
▶ SLEEP , from page 1
karl y  nisson    knisson@ucsd.edureaders can contactThe University of California 
adopted a new Open Access Policy in 
October that will allow any scholarly 
articles published by UC employees to 
be accessed worldwide for free. 
This new policy builds on the 
existing methods within the UC 
system to make scholarly research 
more accessible to the public. The 
policy does not limit the ability 
of students and UC employees to 
publish in academic journals, but 
rather allows others to access their 
work in a multitude of ways.
The Academic Personal and 
Programs Office released a statement 
on Oct. 23 explaining how the new 
system will not increase publishing 
costs for authors. 
“This Open Access Policy allows 
University Authors to maintain legal 
control over their research articles 
while making their work freely and widely available to the public, ” the 
press release states. “The policy does 
not require University Authors to 
publish in open access journals, or 
to pay fees or charges to publish; it 
commits the University and University 
Authors to deposit a version of each 
article in a digital repository. ”
Christopher Kelty, professor of 
information studies and anthropology 
at UCLA and chair of the Presidential 
Open Access Policy Task Force, told 
the UCSD Guardian that this policy 
is different from previous ones 
because it opens up publishing rights 
to a more diverse group of students 
and employees. 
“This policy extends open 
access to all the people in the UC 
system who are not members of the 
Academic Senate, expanding the 
policy to close to 30,000 additional 
UC researchers and academics 
including adjuncts, lecturers, post-
docs, clinical researchers, etc., who 
also write scholarly articles, ” Kelty told the Guardian. “The presidential 
policy extends the policy that the 
Academic Senate passed in June of 
2013 to all those people, giving them 
the right to make their work openly 
and freely available. ”
Under this policy, the University 
of California can publish any and all 
academic works produced at any of 
the campuses regardless of whether 
a publisher or journal decides to 
publish the articles. This will allow 
students and faculty to publish a 
single article on various platforms. 
Previously, publishing companies had 
sole control over distribution of the 
academic works. 
Kelty explained that because 
UCSD is a campus very involved in 
research, the OA policy will be very 
useful to employees and students.
“It will affect UCSD as much 
as all the other campuses, though 
because [San Diego] has strong health 
sciences and a diverse research profile 
generally, it will be something that many people at UC San Diego can take 
advantage of, ” Kelty said. “If there are 
a lot of academic appointees beyond 
the regular tenure-track faculty, then 
the presidential policy will have a 
significant impact for them as well. ”
Eleanor Roosevelt College senior 
and psychology major Humna 
Gardezi said she foresees that this 
policy will facilitate the research 
process for students.
“A s  s o m e o n e  w h o  i s  i n t e r e s t e d  
in conducting research in the 
future, I am very happy to see that 
this policy is making it easier for 
students to publish their work on 
such a wide platform, ” Gardezi said. 
“ As a student who has spent hours 
on research papers, knowing that 
more information is being made 
available with fewer restrictions is 
very gratifying and will help out a 
countless number of people. ”UC SYSTEM
New Systemwide Policy Makes UC Research Accessible to Public
The Presidential Open Access Policy allows researchers to independently publish scholarly articles on digital platforms.
BY   r a a h i m a  s h o a i b
Staff Writer 
raahima shoaib  rshoaib@ucsd.edu readers can contactNEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 23, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
Suvonnasupa: Council Will Help Find Alternate Funding Resources
▶ MEDIA,  from page 1
julie yip  jlyip@ucsd.edureaders can contact
including administrators, staff 
members and student leaders, ” 
Walker said. “Some were worried that 
placing these educational components 
in a rushed manner would nullify 
our efforts to truly create a strong 
discussion and education element. ” 
Additionally, Walker emphasized 
that ASCE’s decision was made 
independently and took all opposing 
arguments into account.
“In these conversations, we were 
never told that we must cancel our 
event, ” Walker said. “It was always 
left up to us as our decision to make, 
and in weighing the concerns on both 
sides, we felt that it was right to invest 
extra time and energy to improve 
upon the event. ”Since the event is being postponed, 
organizers discussed some possible 
changes to the event including making 
it indoors, adding guest speakers at 
the beginning of the film and creating 
small group discussions at the end.
Although the discussions are 
not mandatory, Walker encourages 
students to attend because of 
the learning opportunities these 
discussions will provide.
“While we are strongly encouraging 
students to take part in the discussion, 
we also do not intend to force anyone 
to do so, ” Walker said. “We would 
really value a diversity of perspectives 
and responses to the film. ”
In response to criticisms that 
the postponement was a form of 
censorship, Walker said that the 
decision was motivated primarily by an interest in improving the event.
“I think a lot of this frustration 
is misguided — people are quick 
to assume that this is an issue of 
censorship, ” Walker said. 
Walker also said that ASCE will 
explain the reasoning behind their 
decision to anyone who would like to 
know more.
“A n y  s t u d e n t s  w h o  h a v e  r e a c h e d  
out to us through email or messaged 
our Facebook page expressing 
concerns with the event’s changes can 
expect to receive a thoughtful response 
explaining our decision, ” Walker said. 
UCSD’s Black Student Union and 
the Black Resource Center did not 
respond for comments by press time. Future Event May Include Featured Speakers, Group Discussions
▶ ASCE , from page 1
andrew chaO    avchao@ucsd.edureaders can contactLIGHTS & SIRENSLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edu.
Monday, Nov. 16
8:05 a.m. Information
University flag seen flying upside 
down.
8:25 a.m. Hazard Situation
Wind moved bleachers to the 
middle of street.
10:42 p.m. Embezzlement 
Known suspect embezzled 
approximately 75 UCSD parking 
permits, loss $17,000.
6:00 p.m. - 10:00 a.m. Burglary
Unknown suspect(s) broke into 
locked storage area and Dean’s 
Office, stole keys and a desktop 
computer, damage $300, loss 
$3,525.
Time Unknown. Identity Theft.
Victim reports being impersonated 
on social media site.
Tuesday, Nov. 17
4:22 a.m. Citizen Flagdown
Truck driver looking for directions.
6:56 a.m. Information
Custodian believes he accidentally 
set off alarm.
11:35 a.m. Disturbance - Domestic 
Violence
Report of young woman running 
from man chasing her on a 
skateboard.
5:07 p.m. Hazard Situation
Fire hazard, room overcrowded, 
group trying to meet author.Wednesday, Nov.18
8:40 a.m. Lost Property
Reporting party found two bottles 
of unknown pills.
6:00 - 1:15 p.m. Vehicle Tampering
Unknown suspect(s) removed front 
and rear vehicle emblems, as well as 
blinker lights from victim’s vehicle, 
loss $80.00.
Thursday, Nov. 19
8:10 a.m. Suspicious Person
A suspicious male on bicycle was 
reported for chasing vehicles and 
bicycles. Officers attempted to 
conduct a traffic stop on subject, 
who fled into canyon area. Suspect 
was found and arrested, as well as 
his accomplice who was pointed out 
by a witness.
11:05 a.m. Hit & Run - No Injuries
Reporting party later called in to 
report no hit-and-run, old damage.
Time Unknown. Citizen Contact
Professor reports unknown male 
came into classroom claiming to be 
part of Student Services and selling 
tickets to a comedy show, Professor 
later received an email from student 
stating it was a scam.
9:05 p.m. Suspicious Vehicle
Unoccupied vehicle with lights left 
on.
— KARLY NISSON
Contributing Writer
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGsee more atthe Office of DEI gave a speech about 
how offensive The Koala is and asked 
members of A.S. Council where they 
stand on the issue. During discussion 
over the motion, Thurgood Marshall 
College sophomore Charlotte Lu 
declared that defunding The Koala is 
not about removing the publication. 
Rather, Lu believes the decision is 
about considering how student funds 
should not go toward publications that 
make some students feel unsafe. 
AVP Juarez, who proposed the 
amendment to the constitution, 
expressed their concerns that A.S. 
Council cannot enforce community 
while simultaneously endorsing 
anti-blackness and other attacking 
language visible in The Koala. VP of 
External Affairs Krystl Fabella also 
observed that the publication has 
previously specified locations where it 
is acceptable to rape a person. 
Campuswide senator Ryan Perez stated that he voted to cut funding 
in order to focus on making UCSD’s 
campus more inclusive.
“Being able to address campus 
climate and make a political statement 
while being more fiscally responsible 
and environmentally sustainable is 
consistent with my vision of a better 
UCSD, ” Perez told the Guardian. “[I 
want] a more compassionate campus 
that aims to make a positive impact on 
this world. ” 
A.S. Council provided 
approximately $15,000 per year 
toward campus publications, funds 
which will now be reallocated towards 
A.S. Council’s other areas of interests, 
including housing projects.
“I believe there are other areas 
that really needed more attention, ” 
Suvonnasupa said. “The funds most 
likely will be reallocated to a new 
office we’re trying to create for health 
and wellness and another office for housing. Housing is going to be a big 
issue for the next year. The [University 
of California] is sending us 10,000 
more students to the system. ”
With this vote, Suvonnasupa 
articulated that A.S. Council is open to 
helping affected publications funded 
by A.S. Council’s decision to seek other 
monetary sources, such as colleges, if 
publications are affiliated.
“There are lots of resources 
on campus. If they’re academic 
publications, I’m sure the academic 
divisions are willing to find funding, ” 
Suvonnasupa said. “If any of the 
publications reach out to us, we’re 
happy to make sure that we do 
everything we can. ” 
Other publications affected by 
the vote were contacted but did not 
respond by press time.4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 23, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CASSIA POLLOCK
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
How-To 
Guru: 
Win Back 
Funding
It’s been one of those long, weird 
weeks where the student government 
suddenly decides to drop all its 
financial support for print media 
on campus. To be clear, the all-
knowing How-To Guru does not take 
decisions like this personally. There is 
always a higher reason behind such 
catastrophic decisions. The Guru 
has risen far beyond the sentimental 
provocations of A.S. funding. ‘Tis not 
wise to get our newspapers all twisted 
up over a minor setback. Let this 
well-considered advice enlighten print 
publications on how to win back the 
love and support of the A.S. Council 
and its faithful dollars.
First of all, treat the Koala like a 
strict moral guidebook on how to 
infatuate the hearts of your fellow 
students. When looking for story 
ideas, remember that offensive 
words and terms are a gold mine of 
entertainment. In fact, there is really 
no such thing as being too racist, 
sexist or jerk-assy. The best way to be 
an edgy, cool publication entitled to 
A.S. Council funding is to aimlessly 
spew hateful rhetoric. Of course, 
some students will be offended but 
whatever. There’s no time to be 
politically correct. Y ou’re too busy 
preparing scripts for a reality TV 
show — uh, article.
The next step is to never admit 
to bias. Say this with us: I am the 
voice of all-knowing truth, wisdom 
and fairness. There is no room for 
subjectivity or nuance in journalism. 
Facts are facts, and it is your 
responsibility as a print publication to 
proclaim this moral standard of utter 
and complete objectivity. It is the 
golden duty of all writers to denounce 
their claim on opinions, complaints 
or criticisms.
However, if you should write 
articles with just the faintest tinge 
of a spin to it, keep it positive. 
Memorize the following phrases and 
feel free to disperse these words (as 
a sort of public database of factual 
information) throughout your stories. 
Remember, the student government is 
simply delightful. What a lovely group 
of intelligent students who always 
makes the finest legislative decisions, 
especially about print media! Even 
when they take away their financial 
support, they can’t take away our 
profound love.
Here are a few more examples: 
Janet Napolitano is a sensitive, 
compassionate woman who makes 
students proud to be a part of the 
UC system. Geisel is a spaceship of 
technology and innovative thinking. 
Sun God Festival is a community 
event full of sunlight and happiness. 
We should also publicize how 
thankful we are for the ever-increasing 
student tuition rates. Thanks to 
the power of student debt, UCSD 
undergraduates receive the finest 
education. It is a system above reform, 
immune to improvement. It makes us 
kind of choked up inside with all these 
warm, squishy feelings. In fact, that’s 
the thought the How-To Guru would 
like to leave its followers with: luke-
warm, mushy feelings. Do you feel a 
little like crying right now? Let it all 
out. That is the key to winning back 
funding for print media. Don’t get all 
butthurt about it; get smart, UCSD. It’s 
time to get smart.Filter Overlay Is Well-Intended but 
Doesn’t Show Substantial Support
QUICK TAKESFACEBOOK’S INTRODUCTION OF A FRENCH FLAG FILTER TO DEMONSTRATE SOLIDARITY FOR THE VICTIMS OF 
THE PARIS ATTACKS HAS ELICITED VARIOUS REACTIONS REGARDING MOURNING VIA SOCIAL MEDIA.See MEDIA REACTION, page 5
Mass social networking, as the name 
implies, allows large groups of people across 
the entire world to hear opinions and news at 
an unprecedented scale. However, this swath of 
information is often difficult to separate from 
white noise, which in turn leaves many world 
events unnoticed by the average internet user. 
When the Paris attacks hit social media, users 
flocked to #prayforParis in order to spread news 
of the devastation. However, these posts were 
largely topical in nature and only encouraged a 
singular, mindless response by the vast majority 
of social media users.
An unfortunate aspect of such a large social 
media fixation is that users become largely 
unaware of other important issues. Beirut, 
another victim of ISIS attacks, only saw its 
hashtag #Beirut reach 130,000 tweets per day 
while #Paris reached over 11 million tweets 
per day according to Topsy, a hashtag analytic 
service. Instead of discussing anything besides 
France, users were stuck in an echo box where 
only a narrow construct of data was heard. 
Facebook helped this mindless behavior by only 
allowing users to apply the French flag to their 
picture, ignoring Beirut, Syria or other conflicts. 
Even more worrying, however, was how little 
serious discussion existed on social media after 
the attacks. Rather than discuss how French 
foreign policy or domestic politics helped fuel 
internal tensions, social media users simply 
repeated their messages of support while 
everyone else agreed. Rather than just continue 
the status quo, social media users need to think 
for themselves and learn to be critical about 
what they read so they can contribute to the 
conversation, not just parrot it.
                — NATE WALKER  
                              Contributing WriterExistence of  Only French Overlay 
Filter Forgets Other World Victims
It is ridiculous to become critical of a simple 
gesture such as the temporary French flag 
Facebook filter that shows solidarity and support. 
Many people have criticized this because it 
supposedly means that Western lives somehow 
matter more than those who were affected by 
the bombings in Beirut or Baghdad and other 
places around the world. Maybe people do care 
more about France than Lebanon, and if they do, 
why does that matter? It is their prerogative, and 
it doesn’t mean that the threat of ISIS in other 
places is being dismissed as insignificant. 
Let people mourn and show solidarity the 
way they want to. If people want to #prayforParis 
or change their Facebook picture, they will. 
Sometimes these simple acts speak louder and 
mean more than the $5 someone can donate. 
Although, USA Today columnist Steven 
Petrow encourages people to do more than 
just change their profile, that’s really all many 
social media users can do. Social media isn’t the 
place to make grand gestures in response to the 
ISIS attacks, nor is it even possible to do much 
more. People who changed their profile or wrote 
#prayforParis or a similar message of support 
did what they could within the limited sphere of 
social media. 
Perhaps the world does care more about 
Paris than Beirut or other places suffering 
from terrorist attacks. But at this point, that 
shouldn’t matter. As a writer from Quartz said, 
“This doesn’t make me a hypocrite. It makes 
me human. ” As people are affected by these 
tragedies, it’s time to show support for each 
other instead of criticizing each other for minute 
gestures meant to show solidarity. 
                                —  ROSINA GARCIA  
                                      Managing EditorUsers Should Be Able to Mourn 
Freely without Facing Criticism
The French flag filter on Facebook reflects 
a larger societal issue of wanting to appear as 
if you are helping others while not actually 
doing so. As Niccolo Machiavelli wrote in “The 
Prince, ” “ Appearing virtuous while not making 
the sacrifices necessary to be virtuous is the 
most advantageous. ” We’re more focused on the 
outward appearance of helping instead of working 
to make a tangible difference. 
Facebook should have charged $1 to $5 or 
required a donation to use the profile filter and 
then donated the proceeds to victims of the 
tragedy. In that way, the profile picture is not 
merely an empty gesture but a real attempt to 
help. Although expressing sympathy should be 
accessible to everyone, these empty gestures 
diminish the value of social media. And peer 
pressure may push people into changing their 
profile picture merely to fit in.
On another note, maybe social media users 
could post to a public forum to express their 
sympathy and wishes to those in Paris. French 
citizens could then read these posts and directly 
access the support and love from the social media 
community. This would be similar to Humans of 
New Y ork, a community where a photographer 
takes portraits and combines them with quotes 
or stories to provide the community with insight 
into a person’s life. This way, the community 
may add comments and sympathies for the 
photographed individual. This would create a 
community of people who can support and build 
each other up in times of need. While expressing 
support for a certain cause is admirable and 
appreciated, it is important not to forget that 
the world doesn’t operate on thoughts but on 
tangible contributions.
                                 — ALEXANDER CHEN
                              Staff WriterILLUSTRA TION   B Y  EL Y SE  Y ANG
In the aftermath of  the Paris attacks, other tragedies around the world have been overshadowed. 
Public interest reveals different perspectives on terrorism in the East and the West.B Y QUINN PIEPER  Staff Writer
ILLUSTRA TION   B Y  EL Y SE Y ANGHOW  WE 
MOURN
The Lebanese doctor Elie Fares recently wrote in a blog post: 
“Their death was but an irrelevant fleck along the international 
news cycle, something that happens in those parts of the world.” This 
has been a common response to the lack of international empathy  for 
Beirut in the aftermath of the twin explosions that left 54 dead and 
200 wounded in Beirut. 
   This neglect is not necessarily a result of the lackluster media 
coverage by American and international journalists but rather the 
demand of readers who ultimately shape the content of journalism.
   It’s all out there — Beirut was covered, as was the attack on a 
Kenyan university in April which similarly lacked international 
attention. The New York Times, The Washington Post and BBC 
covered the event with in-depth investigative pieces and general 
coverage. Martin Belam, journalist and designer from BBC, recal led 
that the media coverage of Beirut numbered “over 1,286 articles   
—  lots of which pre-date the attacks in Paris.” But these stories  are not read at the high volumes as those about Paris. And so journalists, 
too, have a right to feel angry, because claims that the attacks in 
Beirut went unnoticed by major media are false. It’s readers who 
drive content and decide what’s shared and discussed. 
   One of the most retweeted photos in light of Beirut and Pari s on 
the night of the attacks was accompanied by a caption reading “ No 
media has covered this” and was actually a photo taken nine yea rs 
prior in 2006 during Israel’s war against Hezbollah in Lebanon. 
Above all else, this demonstrates the lack of public interest —  no 
one noticed or even cared to fact-check.
   According to Vox, Max Fisher of the Atlantic is a journalist 
who struggled with what he believes is newsworthy and what 
actually is, recounting disappointment at his 2010 coverage of the 
bombings in Baghdad upon being told by an editor that “No one is 
going to read this.”
   At the heart of this disparity is why and how humans empathize. OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 23, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
TRITON
PANTRYFOOD
location: Original Student Center
email: foodpantry@ucsd.edu
phone: (858) 534-5694The mission of the Triton Food Pantry is to provide a discreet 
service to UCSD students in need of food. Our goals are to 
ensure that every student has enough energy to get through 
the day and that no student needs to give up a single meal 
for any reason. We aim to build a network of resources and 
awareness about food insecurity.
Hours subject to change in future quarters.Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri
9am–1pm 3pm–6pm 3pm–6pm 9am–1pm 9am–1pmFall Quarter Hours:
WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
Recent Terror Attacks in Paris and Beirut Highlight Differences in the Media Coverage of  Western and Eastern CountriesLETTER  TO  THE  EDITOR
Dear Editors,
I am disappointed with the 
decision made by A.S. Council to 
remove its financial support from 
student media organizations because 
they disagree with what is being 
stated in one printed forum (read: 
Koala). A.S. Council appears to be 
attempting to subvert the possibility 
of being viewed as discriminating 
against one news media organization 
by dismantling support for other/
all previously supported news 
organizations. In fact, it has been 
done so hastily that they were not 
even able to give ample time for input 
from the news organizations that 
Council represents. 
While the Koala publication 
is admittedly crude, racist and 
misogynistic, it is the First 
Amendment right of those who 
produce the publication to voice 
their opinions regardless of whether 
they conflict with the views of the 
A.S. Council. Stifling the voices 
of news media organizations by withdrawing financial support is 
incredibly unconstitutional.
The goal of the A.S. Council 
should not be to deprecate the student 
media in order to create a safe space 
simply because the Council disagrees 
with one organization. A.S. Council 
should fight for the rights of students 
to create whatever form of news 
media they wish, regardless of content, 
as A.S. Council is not responsible 
for the content — the organizations 
producing the content are. 
On a more personal note, the 
ridiculous knee-jerk reaction speed 
of this defunding proposition 
seems immature at best. A public 
renouncement and call for a petition 
to defund selectively a form of media 
that directly promotes the use of 
sexual- or race-based violence could 
have been more efficacious. 
Sincerely, 
Brian Monroe
UCSD student in Visual Arts                             
      program
Why, as Lebanese writer Joey 
Aryoub asks, do Beirut victims 
not get the thoughts and prayers of 
beloved celebrities who have the 
immense power of the Internet at 
their fingertips? The answer isn’t 
that simple, but two realities persist, 
and both reflect Aryoub’s and 
Belam’s claims.
   What a lack of front-page news 
stories and Facebook shares regarding 
Beirut demonstrates on a deeper level 
is that people living in the Western 
sphere do not exercise the same 
degree of empathy about Beirut as 
they do about Paris. It’s a familiar 
part of the West. According to the International Institute of Education, 
France is the fourth most popular 
choice for a study abroad destination, 
while Lebanon does not break the 
top 20. Clearly, the reports of terror 
in non-Westernized countries aren’t 
perceived as attacks on people and 
are, rather, as Fares mentions on his 
blog post, merely seen as “something 
that happens in those parts of the 
world.” 
    As elaborated by Justin Peters in a 
piece for Slate, the articles regarding 
Beirut lack integral elements of 
writing that those written about Paris 
exhibit, from second accounts of the 
wreckage to narrative storytelling 
and selection of quotes. This shows 
increased empathy toward victims of terrorist attacks in more Westernized 
nations, reflected in part by how these 
attacks are described to the public as 
well as how they are received.
   With that said, there are 
generalizations revealed through 
selective coverage of Lebanon and 
Syria that contribute to a hierarchy 
of empathy, in which victims from 
more Westernized settings receive the 
most, whether intentionally or not, 
and little effort is made to understand 
regions outside of this familiar model 
of democratic society. This is evident 
in the claim that Lebanon is a war 
zone and that the Beirut attacks were 
typical. It’s certainly located in the 
politically volatile Gulf Region, but 
as Anne Barnard states in her analysis of the aftermath of Beirut, this year 
— despite political assassinations in 
recent years and an Israeli airstrike 
nine years ago — had been one of 
“relative calm” for Beirut. Blanket 
statements regarding the Middle East 
in reactions to terrorism dismiss issues 
that we need to acknowledge.
   Time after time, it’s consistently 
Muslim and Jewish populations 
who face the greatest dangers after 
terrorist attacks and who are blamed 
for violence they did not commit. 
This week, a San Diego State student 
was attacked by another student who 
attempted to push her, rip her hijab 
from her head and, as reported by 
Quinn Owen of The Daily Aztec, 
yelled “hateful comments about her ethnicity.” This is just one of many 
similar reactions this week in response 
to previous terrorist attacks, joining 
the arson and shooting of French 
mosques after Charlie Hebdo and the 
brutal attack of a Muslim woman in 
Toronto who was picking up her kids 
from school.
    For there to be media coverage 
outside the Western sphere, American 
readers must work to understand the 
complexity of countries and affairs in 
the Middle East and the Gulf Region. 
Readers need to demonstrate that 
deaths like those in Beirut are not 
merely “blips on international radar.”▶ MEDIA REACTION  from page 4.
QUINN PIEPER    qpieper@ucsd.edureaders can contact6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 23, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
ALLISON  KUBO
features@ucsdguardian.org
StudentS BeCOMe tHe
teaCHerS
Everyone is aware of how difficult the switch 
from high school, or even community 
college, to a large university like UCSD can 
be. We have an intimate knowledge of the pains 
and joys of this transition, because we’ve done it.  A 
large number of colleges across America, including 
UCSD, have introduced the First Y ear Experience 
and Transfer Y ear Experience, in an attempt to 
guide students and give them structure in their first 
quarter.
The FYE coordinator, Sophia Davidson, claims 
that a successful transition can enormously help 
incoming students. 
“Our FYE program gives students the tools 
they need to be successful in their college career, ” 
Davidson told the UCSD Guardian. “Research 
across the country has shown a significant hike in 
retention and graduation rate. ” 
UCSD, unlike many other universities, offers 
the program for credit. Each of the six colleges 
tailors their curriculum to their specific values 
and GE programs while aiding students as they 
explore the six-college system. Classes are a mix of 
lectures, guest speakers, discussions and activities. Another special part of the program is the 
partnership between FYE, TYE and organizations 
on campus such as CAPS, Geisel Library and 
Student Affairs. Presentations by  these groups 
assist students with their questions about college 
life: time management, personal health, how to get 
well acquainted with academic integrity, how to 
interact with professors and how to get involved on 
campus.
Looking back at their own first few weeks, 
many students who struggled during their first 
quarter realize that they could have benefited from 
this program. Allen Bolar, a teaching assistant for 
the Eleanor Roosevelt College program, aims to 
help students who are nervous about the transition 
to a large university.
“The ideal student is one who feels that this is a 
huge change in their lives going from high school 
to college or something before college, ” Bolar told 
the UCSD Guardian. “One way I think about it is 
we are teaching students ‘how to student, ’ which 
is a funny way to put it since these are UCSD 
students and they are presumably great students 
and have been good students their whole life, but university life is different. There are a lot more 
opportunities and a lot more challenges [when] 
you are in a large city-like environment. From my 
own personal experience, it’s this sink-or-swim 
moment. ”
 A crucial element of this program, however, 
seems to be its Discussion Leaders, who act as 
TAs and mentors. Chosen from a wide range of 
majors and backgrounds, the DLs only have one 
common factor: the desire to mentor students and 
the experience necessary to do so. After they are 
accepted, DLs undergo training in the spring and 
then begin teaching in the fall. 
“From the program’s perspective, at least my 
perspective, DLs are the single most important 
piece of the program because they are the ones 
meeting with incoming students every week, ” Bolar 
said. “Ideally they are getting a chance to pass on 
some of their knowledge and experience. We also 
want it to be a chance to give back to students. 
We want them to have experience and practice 
in teaching. We work every week on pedagogy 
and how to make a lesson plan...For advanced by Allison Kubo  //Features Editor 
and Susanti Sarkar //Contributing Writer
illustration by Alex Liang
Throughout the country, colleges are starting First Year and Transfer Year Experiences. The UCSD Guardian 
delved into the UCSD programs, one for each of the six colleges, and saw how students become the teacher. 
See  FYE, page 8FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 23, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
WATCH  YOUR  
LANGUAGE
by Matthew Zamudio //Contributing Writer    
Professor Seth Lerer not only holds two bachelor degrees, a 
masters degree, and a Ph.D. in English but also a respect for the 
evolution and change in language.PHOTO BY MATTHEW ZAMUDIO / UCSD GUARDIAN
Professor Seth Lerer sat surrounded by books. It was a fitting backdrop 
for the Distinguished Professor of Literature, who joined UCSD’s 
faculty as an accomplished scholar of English language and literature 
in early 2009. The walls of his office were hidden behind bookshelves 
spanning from ceiling to floor, and the multi-colored spines of at least a 
thousand texts painted the room in a kaleidoscopic array of color. It was the 
space of a man who had dedicated the last 39 years of his life to the study 
of the written word — who had come to know the works of Chaucer and 
Shakespeare perhaps better than himself, and who, through literature, had 
gained a deep understanding of humanity. 
His studies have sent him across most of the western hemisphere, 
obtaining a B.A. in English from Wesleyan University, a second B.A. in 
Medieval English and an M.A. in Historical Linguistics from the University 
of Oxford, and his Ph.D. in English from the University of Chicago. It wasn’t 
long after he earned his doctorate that Lerer began teaching at Princeton. 
But when he was given the opportunity to teach at Stanford in 1991, the 
intoxicating allure of fabled California took full effect, and Lerer headed 
westward. 
While his education certainly reinforces his scholarly brilliance, to fully 
understand Seth Lerer is to look past his prestigious titles, awards and 
books, revealing the natural intellectual that lies behind his dapper suit 
and tie. Soon, Seth Lerer the New Yorker comes into focus: the one whose 
first literary experience came at the age of four years old after receiving his 
library card from the Brooklyn Public Library.
“[The book] was called ‘ Adam’s Today and Tomorrow, ’” Lerer told the 
UCSD Guardian. “It was about the future. ” 
He smiled nostalgically. 
“It was like, and this was 1959, we are going to live in a world in which 
electricity will be too cheap to meter, ” Lerer remembered, “In which 
everything will be clean and safe. In which America’s nuclear power will be 
a beacon of light to the rest of the world. I mean, I know it’s horseshit now, 
but that’s what we were taught!” 
He was right. It really was horseshit. But in the late 1950s such 
portrayals of progress didn’t seem too far from the truth, and to four-year-
old Lerer these hopeful images of a prosperous future were as feasible 
as they were wondrous. In the same way “ Adam’s Today and Tomorrow” 
captured the perspective of Americans in 1959, each and every work of 
literature encapsulates the cultural environment of the time and place that 
they’re written. 
“In that sense, literature is a lens, ” Lerer explained. “It’s a way of 
magnifying. It’s a way of seeing. ” 
The transitory nature of perspective and language in literature seems a 
recurrent fixture of Lerer’s scholarly research. As an individual who religiously 
studies everything from the most archaic literary works to the latest 
contemporary tomes, he has observed the English language and the people 
who speak it change dramatically over the course of history. Like a spectator 
seated in the very last row of a playhouse, Lerer has seen how English 
literature has shifted and warped as cultural shifts enter and exit the stage. 
One of his nine books, “Inventing English: A Portable History of the 
Language, ” delves into these dynamic changes by exploring the different 
ways in which vocabulary, pronunciation and grammar have transformed 
commensurate to mankind. This constant evolution of literature and 
language, Lerer says, can create challenges for readers and speakers who 
aren’t able to adjust as quickly as language does.
 “My view is that we are going to have strata, ” Lerer said. “We are going 
to have [different] Englishes for different purposes, and there will be a 
real self-consciousness about this. Language of the school, language of the 
business, language of the home, language of the street. We see this in the 
history of the English language. We see the way in which people do this. ”
Evidence to support Lerer’s idea of stratified Englishes is all around 
us. The Internet, for one, is in the process of cultivating its own language. 
Instead of interpreting these changes as disdainful devolutions of language, 
as many English scholars might, Lerer embraces them.
“There’ s a creativity in the English of the Internet that can aspire to a 
certain kind of poetry, ” Lerer said. “I really believe that. ” 
Unlike many traditional scholars, who would rather receive 100 lashes 
before putting the words Internet, English and poetry in the same sentence, 
Lerer believes that this is the natural evolution of English and to resist that 
would be foolish. 
Still, when traversing the globe giving presentations on Old English, 
Middle English, classical literary texts and more, Lerer’s audiences 
frequently single out the “degradation” of the English language. The baby 
boomers and other members of the senior crowd look to Lerer to help 
them understand why younger generations don’t speak or write properly, 
like they learned to. 
“People have been saying the English language is decaying for the last 
500 years, ” Lerer said with a serious countenance. “So, I want to look at the 
vibrancy and poetry that is going on. ”
He may be astoundingly familiar with the eloquent English of the past, 
but Lerer isn’t one to look back. In fact, his extensive knowledge of history 
is what allows him to peer so confidently into the foggy future. 
“It’s easier to say, ‘Why doesn’t anybody speak English anymore?’ 
See  LERER , page 88 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 23, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
Social
Power
HourSocial
Power
Hour
FREE GAMES, MUSIC, AND FOOD!FREE GAMES, MUSIC, AND FOOD!
FIRST COME, FIRST SERVEd
FIRST COME, FIRST SERVEd
DATEDATE
WHEN AND WHEREWHEN AND WHERE
PC COMMUTER
LOUNGE5PMDEC. 3WEEKWEEK SALESALE
HOLID AY HOLID AY
SHOP AT THE TRITON OUTFITTERS TENT
DURING WEEK 10 AND SPIN THE WHEEL
FOR EXTREME HOLIDAY DISCOUNTS!
SHOP ONLINE AT to.ucsd.eduundergraduates who are thinking 
about graduate school to put their 
toe in the water, but actually they do 
everything that a TA does. ” 
The DLs of the program lead 
weekly sections after lecture and 
learn to put together not only lesson 
plans but also free-writes, discussions 
and assignments. While this is just a 
taste of what it is like to be a TA, the 
program allows undergraduates to 
briefly step behind the lectern and 
glimpse what they might be doing 
in a few years. This creates a unique 
relationship as the DLs gain valuable 
teaching experience and students 
adapt to college life. ERC senior Reina Ishii expanded 
on what it means to be a part of 
the FYE and TYE programs. For 
her, every time she is in front of her 
students represents a chance to mentor 
fresh-faced freshmen.
“I chose to apply to be a DL 
because I wanted to help first 
year students learn to adjust to 
the academic culture of UCSD, ” 
Ishii told the Guardian. “I am able 
to share my academic struggles 
and accomplishments, which 
eventually leads me to advise and 
guide students on their own. Also, 
I wanted to show students that, in a 
way, they are not alone on campus, 
and there are resources. ”Not only do the DLs lead class 
and discuss issues such as diversity 
and inclusion, but they also teach 
simple lessons on how to reach out to 
professors or gain a research position. 
“From this program, I can see 
personal growth in my students, 
whether it is dedication to their 
academics or involvement on campus, ” 
Ishii said. “One moment that I felt that 
my students realized the benefits of 
this course was when I displayed the 
answers to ‘what did you want to learn 
from FYE, ’ and my students were able 
to answer them and provide a list of 
resources to accomplish that goal. ”
This student-to-student 
mentorship shines when DLs, who are peers and well aware of the different 
hardships and exciting opportunities, 
can console and guide new students. 
Moreover, along with the students’ 
feedback, the DLs and instructors are 
already working together to create a 
better and more helpful curriculum.
“I hope to see this program 
continue to grow and expand to 
an all-year program, rather than 
just one quarter, ” Ishii said. “ Also, 
I want to see the appreciation and 
dedication of being a UCSD student 
from students within this program 
based on the amount of material and 
resources FYE provides. ”
This year, 490 first years enrolled 
in the program. Davidson and the FYE Advisory Board seek to expand 
the program next year to enroll more 
student and put on more events. 
Meanwhile, the hunt is on for next 
year’s DLs. 
“We want [DLs] who are great 
examples of what students could 
be. ” Bolar said. “The DLs we’ve had 
have been uniformly exemplary, who 
not only are great at learning but 
represent a richness to their university 
experience. A DL should be a student 
who is interested in helping people 
and isn’t afraid of being in front of 20 
people each week. ”
than it is to stand up and say, ‘I’ve 
spent my whole life being important, 
and now I’m not important anymore, ’ 
or, ‘My kids have moved out, ’ or, ‘I’m 
on my own, ’ or to ask the question, 
‘Where am I in the world?’” Lerer said. 
“That’ s a hard conversation to have. 
It’s easier to say, ‘Why is it that when 
I walk into the bank, these kids don’t 
know how to make change?’”  
Rather than moping about the way 
English used to be, Lerer dedicates 
his time and energy to the study of 
where it is going. He is an educator 
who believes that to be progressive is 
to dive into the unknown, shedding 
conventionalities that have become 
obsolete before taking the leap. While 
his views on the future of literature 
and language may be considered “new 
wave, ” Professor Lerer can still attest to 
the dastardly effects of time.  
Last September, Lerer went back to 
Brooklyn, the heart of “hipster” NYC. Back in his hometown, in a restaurant 
within walking distance of his 
childhood home, he was confronted 
with this change face-to-face. His 
“20-something” server, Courtney, 
came to take his order. 
“’Hey great, Courtney, you know I 
grew up a few blocks from here, ’” Lerer 
said. She looked him up and down, 
a nicely dressed professor in his 60s, 
white hair and a suit, mentally rolling 
her eyes. 
“Really? Really?” Lerer thought to 
himself. “Okay. ” 
Since leaving Brooklyn and 
pursuing his studies from England to 
California, it seems that his city and 
his language have moved on. But that’s 
to be expected. Through literature, 
language and insight, Professor Lerer 
teaches us all to welcome the ebb and 
flow of time and, to another extent, 
see the poetry in change.FYE and TYE Programs Hope to Expand to More Students and Events Next Year, Looking for DLs Now
Lerer Studies Natural Change in LanguageSusanti   sarkar   s5sarkar@ucsd.edu readers can contact
Ma tthew  zamudio   m1zamudi@ucsd.edu readers can contactBreak  the   next   big    stor y. 
Send your leads to 
features@ucsdguardian.org▶ LERER,  from page 6▶ FYE, from page 6CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 23, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
HAPPY THANKSGIVINGTHU, 11.26TahrirCAMPUS
CALENDAR
NOV 23  - NOV  292015 POWERED BY THE CHANCELLOR’S OFFICE AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guardian
Calenda r
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdg uardian.orgWED 11.25 TUE 11.24
11am
BODY COMPOSITION - THE ZONE
Walk in for your free analysis which 
includes: body weight, percentage body 
fat, total body water, and blood 
pressure. One free assessment per 
quarter is available to registered UCSD 
students.
2:30pm
CAREER CHATS WITH CSC ADVISOR 
- THE ZONE
Chat with Roxanne Farkas, a CSC 
Advisor, about professional career 
objectives and goal setting so you can 
be more successful in obtaining your 
career goals10am
FITNESS ZONE: YOGA - THE ZONE
Yoga: This class will move from one asana (pose) to the 
next. Each class is a unique sequence of asanas. 
Classes take on a life of their own with the culmination 
of collective energy, movement and breath. Lead by 
FitLife instructor Jennie Olson Six and Nadine Lindseth.
7pm
OUTREACH TRIVIA NIGHTS - MIDDLE OF MUIR 
(MOM)
FOOD, FACTS, FRIENDS, & FUN! Come to Home Plate 
Cafe to meet new people and test your knowledge of 
various trivia categories! Free entry to all UCSD 
students and prizes for winning team! Make this a 
weekly event and turn up the competition! Happy hour 
prices on food and drinks for trivia participants! All 
students are welcome! Come as a team or by yourself!
THU 11.26
SURF SAFARI, BAJA CALIFORNIA, MEXICO
Tired of the crowds, want your own wave? It's yours on this Thanksgiving weekend trip to the renowned 
breaks of Baja California. We will travel south of Ensenada to our choice of private beginner friendly breaks 
off the Baja peninsula. Night will find us feasting on tasty meals, gathered around a bonfire being awed by 
the stars. We will camp out right on the beach and cliffs overlooking the Pacific Ocean. No experience 
necessary, we provide instruction, boards and wetsuits.MON 11.23
10am
ART & SOUL: THANKFUL TREE - THE ZONE
Workshops are free; all supplies and materials provided. 
Space is limited and is first come, first served.
5pm
DINNER AND A MOVIE - WESTFIELD UTC
Student driven discussion on the topic of HIV/AIDs. ACTA 
along with ACCB, Muir College Council WTCC, and TRES 
PRESENT: Dinner and A Movie. $5 will get you a burger, fries, 
and soft drink from Red Robin and a ticket to see Mockingjay 
Part 2! We will be hositng sign-ups very soon so stay tuned! 
Limited Space is available so first come, first served. Dinner 
is at 5pm @ Red Robin and the movie will be at 7pm. 
Message transfer@ucsd.edu if you want to SIGN UP!!!!
5pm
THANK-FALL CRAFTS @ THE LOFT - THE LOFT
We provide the materials, YOU provide the creativity! The 
classic turkey, other animals, Triton, Sun God, Minions, etc. 
Decorate a mason jar (pre-filled with candy) however you'd 
like! It's the season to be giving thanks and being grateful for 
what we have. Join us in the crafting fun and share with each 
other about what you're thankful for. Free for UCSD Students! 
Make sure to bring your Student ID *Supplies are limited, first 
come first serve.
6:30pm
NO WALLS, NO BRAKES - PC EAST BALLROOM
SOAR Performing Arts is proud to present its first show of the 
year: "No Walls, No Brakes"! Join us for a hilarious night of 
breaking the fourth wall in all sorts of crazy ways.  Doors 
open at 6:30.
1 Devious, in a way
4 Bad states
9 You often see a lap in one
14 Bullet in a deck
15 Strange
16 Kind of trader
17 Royal sleep disturbance, in a tale
18 Break from soldiers’ training?
20 Ill-advised
22 Flames’ org.
23 Gives the slip
24 Clown settlement?
27 Old waste allowance
28 Resemble strongly
33 ID necessity, often
36 Plow into
37 Like Chinese dishes, frequently
38 International affair?
42 It may be gross in med sch.
43 OPEC member
44 Development units
45 Picks
47 Monopoly card
49 O. Henry stories?
54 Pizza chain
58 Like Bizet’s only symphony
59 Night light
60 Copperfield’s limo?
63 Short sentence about a long term
64 Center of Cleveland?
65 Some plots
66 “I reckon not”
67 Noodleheads
68 “Siddhartha” author
69 It’s up to you1 “Mr. Smith Goes to Washington” director
2 Shore thing
3 Dough-raising need
4 __ story
5 Fine point
6 August comment
7 Warbling sound
8 IPO overseer
9 Malibu and Tahoe
10 Guadalajara greeting
11 Ideal for Joshua trees
12 “Now that makes sense”
13 Trio in an NBA game
19 Entitle, as an altered file
21 Ancient Indo-European
25 Swift reptile
26 Vividly colored fish
29 Used as an elevator
30 Blob’s lack
31 Rubberneck
32 Eye cells
33 NEA supporters
34 Fine-tune
35 Fall birthstone
36 Itinerary abbr.
39 Have a better crew than
40 Burkina __
41 See 6-Down
46 Group with common interests
47 Some booth occupants
48 Proverbs follower: Abbr.
50 Heiress, perhaps
51 Equestrian tools
52 Maker of Advantix cameras
53 Blizzardlike
54 Urban hazard
55 Proverbial thorn
56 “A Death in the Family” novelist
57 England’s Portsmouth Harbour and 
others
61 “As if!”
62 Mariner’s hdg.Huffy 20” Boys Rock It Bike - $50. You are 
getting an almost brand new Huffy 20” 
Boys Rock It Bike. Only used a handful of 
times. Looks brand new! BMX-style frame 
in steel provides durability. 20” x 1.75” rug -
ged tires with steel rims. Easy to use coaster 
brake for intuitive stopping. Padded seat 
with quick-release for easy adjustments. 
Single speed drivetrain. Hi-rise handlebar 
in black with decorated handlebar pad. 
Listing ID: 207853815 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Specialized Rockhopper - $80. 17”  
Rockhopper. Super condition. Listing ID: 
207853811 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Schwinn Mountain Bike - $80. Nice Schwinn 
Frontier for sale. Shimano derailers and 
thumb/trigger shifters and center pull 
brakes. Frame size is 19” and the tires are 
size 26” . It fits me well at 5’9” and should 
fit someone slightly taller or a few inch -
es shorter. Real terrific condition overall, 
though it could use a minor adjustment 
to make the second gear smoother--but 
it rides well other than that. Listing ID: 
207853800 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more informatio
Logistics Speakers - $15. USB Logitech 
speakers for computer. Listing ID: 
207853863 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more information
PS4 with Games - $300. 500GB PS4 for sale. 
All games in pic included. Just don’t have 
time for it anymore. AMAZON GIFT CARD 
ONLY. Listing ID: 206994190 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
Xbox 360 Slim with Kinect and 3 Controllers 
- $100. Works perfectly, looks perfect. It’s 
just never used except for Netflix which 
my television does on its own. I have a 
couple games to include as well. Listing 
ID: 2063994192 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
Dark Wood Side Table x2 - $50. Price is for 
two. Very attractive condition. Could go in 
a living room or bedroom. Very dark brown 
in color (possibly black). Sizes are 24 wide 
x 15 high x 16 deep (inches). They have 
adjustable shelves. The tables match with 
a television unit I am also selling. Listing ID: 
207853865 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Bar Stools- $75. Nice modern bar stools. 
Listing ID: 206994208 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Smart TV and Table - $275. I have a recently 
bought, perfectly working Vizio 42. Listing 
ID: 206994207 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
t
your vision,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel to 
promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!www.ucsdguardian.org/advertising
#OMG 
#LIKE US
#FOLLOW US
@ucsdgua rdian
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 23, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11ADMIT ONEADMIT ONEADMIT ONE
ADMIT ONE
AT ARCLIGHTAT red robin&a
For more information, contact http:/ /facebook.com/ucsdacta
for long — a power play by Air 
Force’s freshman utility George 
Millard in the final four seconds of 
the frame leveled the score back out 
at 7–7 going into the fourth.
Mancuso opened the fourth 
quarter up with a score from the 
post position to reclaim the lead. 
The Falcons briefly tied the game 
at eights, but Cockerill smashed 
two into the cage to re-establish the 
advantage. The Tritons held strong 
on defense for the remainder of the 
quarter to secure a 10–8 victory and 
a spot in the championship matchup 
the following day against top-seeded 
No. 9 UC Davis. With the win, their 
record improved to 13–13. The 
Falcons dropped down to 11–16.
Championship Round
The Tritons stole a huge upset 
win over top-seeded No. 9 UC Davis 
on Sunday to secure yet another 
conference crown.
Alexander scored on a power 
play once in the first 47 seconds of 
the first frame and again in the last 
11 seconds to steal an early 2–0 lead 
over UC Davis. The Tritons held 
the Aggies scoreless until the first 
minute of the second quarter when 
junior two-meter Jacob Ley smashed 
one into the back of the cage within 
50 seconds of the start of the quarter 
to narrow the margin to one.
The Aggies struck again with 
two minutes left in the quarter 
to tie the game at twos. Cockerill then looked to take back the lead, 
hitting the target to push his team 
to a one-point advantage in the last 
12 seconds of the frame. However, 
freshman attacker Ido Goldschmidt 
came back and fired a hard shot into 
the goal with a mere two seconds left 
to end the half at a 3–3 deadlock.
Alexander completed his hat 
trick in the third as he converted a 
five-meter penalty shot to take back 
the lead for his team. Mancuso then 
scored a critical insurance point 
for UCSD, boosting its lead back 
up to two just past the four-minute 
mark. UC Davis freshman utility 
Sasa Antunovic fired a shot home 
on a power play to put the pressure 
on the Tritons once more but just 
minutes later was removed on an 
exclusion, giving Alexander yet 
another chance to convert a penalty 
shot and set the score at 6–4.
The fourth frame became a 
nail-biter after the Aggies’ redshirt 
freshman Brock Gordon scored in 
the first minute and a half to narrow 
his team’s deficit to one. However, 
goalkeeper Jack Turner held firm in 
the Triton cage, making two critical 
saves in the last minutes of play to 
hang onto the lead and secure a 
narrow 6–5 upset.
This marks UCSD’s third-
straight, 18th all-time WWPA title. 
They now sit at 14–13 overall.third seeds, but ultimately Cal State 
San Bernardino did advance further 
into the tourney. The second seed 
improved onto a 26–4 record for the 
regular season while UCSD dropped 
its record to 19–11 overall for the 
regular season.
The Cal State San Bernardino 
Coyotes had an impressive stat sheet 
for the night and were clear winners 
in some categories over the Tritons. 
The Coyotes had a more effective net 
play as they were able to outblock 
the Tritons solidly 16–5. The Tritons 
had a .149 (52–27–168) hitting 
percentage while the Coyotes were 
able to produce a .279 (61–15–165) 
hitting percentage that night. The 
Coyotes also had four players who 
were each able to give their team 10 
or more kills, with 12 service errors 
in the match.
Dahle was able to lead all the 
players in the match on Friday night 
with 24.5 points and 21 kills. She also swung at a .380 (21–2–50) along with 
two aces, three block assists and 11 
digs. This was the second consecutive 
night the senior outside hitter was 
able to place herself as the points and 
kills leader for both teams. 
Both Wright and Sierks recorded 
double-doubles again. This time, 
Wright was able to earn her double-
double with 10 kills and 16 digs, and 
Sierks achieved her own double-
double after she tallied 37 assists 
and 19 digs. Colla mimicked her 
statistical performance from the 
previous night as she finished off the 
night with a match-high 19 digs.  
“Their hitters did a really good 
job and put a lot of pressure on us 
all night, ” UCSD Head Coach Ricci 
Luyties told the UCSD Athletics 
Department. “We never really got 
in the flow of our offense. On the 
defensive end, our blocking was not 
doing the job that we needed to to 
slow down their hitters. ” 
This match was the third meeting 
of the season between UCSD and Cal State San Bernardino, with the 
Tritons having swept the Coyotes on 
Sept. 15 and the Coyotes winning 
3–1 on Sept. 22. This puts San 
Bernardino at 2–1 against UCSD 
this season.
Cal State San Bernardino 
advanced on to the final round to 
fight for the CCAA Tournament 
crown against No. 17, first-seed 
Sonoma State on Saturday. Sonoma 
State was able to win against Cal 
State San Bernardino with a nail-
biting, 3–2 victory, automatically 
earning itself a berth in the NCAA 
postseason. UCSD now waits to see 
what its future holds as it waits to 
see if it will receive an at-large spot 
in the upcoming postseason NCAA 
tournament. The selections for the 
NCAA tourney will be announced 
on Monday, Nov. 23, at 4:30 p.m. PT 
at NCAA.com.Tritons Qualify for NCAA Championships UCSD from the Outside Looking in for NCAA T ournament Berth
▶ M. WATERPOLO,  from page 12 ▶ W. VOLLEYBALL,  from page 12
3
2
See more at
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
MARCUS THUILLIER
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 23, 2015 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
bi -weekl y
summar y
UCSD was the only 
Division-II program 
present at the A3 
Performance Invitational 
and performed well against top 
Division-I teams.The women’s swimming 
team finished fifth at the 
annual A3 Performance 
Invitational.
MEN'S  W A TER  POLO
Santa Clara
Air Force
UC Davis11 - 9
10 - 8
6 - 5
The men’s swimming 
team finished fourth 
at the annual A3 
Performance Invitational.
WOMEN'S
VOLLEYBALL
22 21 25 15
25 18 25 2525 25 20 25
17 25 19 23CSU Los Angeles
CSU San Bernadino4
5
1
UCSD
UCSD
UCSDUCSD
UCSDThe UCSD men’s water polo team ended a successful bid 
for its third-straight Western Water Polo Association 
crown at Cadet Natatorium at the U.S. Air Force Academy 
in Colorado Springs this past weekend, securing three straight 
wins en route to its 18th WWPA title. The Tritons edged out the 
Santa Clara University Broncos 11–9 in the opening round on 
Friday, then went on to take a 10–8 victory over host Air Force 
on Saturday to clinch a spot in the title match. After a tight four 
frames against top-seeded UC Davis, UCSD came away with a 
narrow 6–5 victory to its crown.
First Round
UCSD made a comeback from a two-goal deficit in the 
second half to secure the win against Santa Clara and move 
on to the WWPA semifinal round.
Freshman driver Cole Martinez and junior utility Nassim 
Hmeidan each scored one in the first minute of the first 
frame to take a commanding two-goal lead over the Broncos. 
However, Santa Clara responded with two goals of its own to 
tie the score up at 2–2; each team then took one more to end 
the quarter in a 3–3 deadlock.
The Tritons then outscored the Broncos 3–2 in the second 
frame to establish the lead once again. The Triton defense 
held strong and limited the Broncos to just two scores as 
junior utility Jack Ellinthorpe, junior driver Andy Moore 
and Martinez each put away one to put UCSD at a one-point 
advantage going into halftime.
However, the Broncos came back after the half and found 
the back of the cage three consecutive times to set the score 
at 8–6, claiming their first major lead of the game. UCSD’s 
senior utility Daniel Straub was able to cut the deficit to one, 
and junior driver Nick Alexander converted a five-meter 
penalty shot to tie the game up once again.
The critical point came as two Broncos drew exclusions late 
in the quarter, putting the Tritons at a two-player advantage. 
Ellinthorpe scored a six-on-four goal to steal the lead back, then senior utility Chase Cockerill lobbed one more into the 
back of the cage with six seconds remaining to put UCSD 
back at a two-point advantage.
The Tritons scored one more and limited Santa Clara to 
one in the final frame to end the game with an 11–9 victory 
and move into the semifinals against tournament host Air 
Force. UCSD increased its record to 12–13 this season, while 
Santa Clara dropped to 11–20 overall.
“ Any time you’re going to try to beat a team a fourth time 
in one season, it’s pretty difficult, ” UCSD Head Coach Denny 
Harper told the UCSD Athletics Department. “I’m certainly 
pleased with the way we closed it out. I do think that playing 
this game is going to pay dividends in terms of getting into a 
groove of what to expect playing in this altitude of 7,200 feet. ”
Semifinal Round
The Tritons put away two last-minute goals to crush 
tournament host Air Force 10–8 on Saturday and secure a 
spot in the WWPA championship match. 
Alexander found the back of the cage in the first frame to 
push the Tritons to an early lead. However, the Falcons battled 
back in the second, scoring twice within minutes of the start 
of the period to take a one-point lead. Martinez responded 
soon after with a goal of his own to level the score; Alexander 
then nabbed his second of the match to reclaim the lead.
The Falcons were not done yet, though — three scores 
in quick succession put Air Force at a two-goal advantage 
coming into the last minutes of the quarter. Martinez scored 
again off a pass from senior utility Chase Cockerill to narrow 
the deficit to one, but the host closed the quarter at a 6–4 
advantage after putting away one last shot in the final 39 
seconds of play.
The Tritons returned with a vengeance after the half, 
outscoring Air Force 3–1 to even the score once again. 
Cockerill scored one and senior two-meter Tyler Mancuso 
took two to claim a narrow one-point lead, but it didn’t last 
This past week, UCSD hosted 
the first-ever California Collegiate 
Athletic Association Women’s 
Volleyball Tournament at RIMAC 
Arena. Host school UCSD was able 
to advance further into the tourney 
after it defeated Cal State Los Angeles 
in a quarterfinal match on Thursday 
before ultimately being bounced out 
by Cal State San Bernardino in the 
semifinal match on Friday.
First Round
UCSD defeated Cal State Los 
Angeles after well-contested sets 
ended in a 3–1 victory. The scores 
of the sets were 25–22, 25–21, 20–25 
and 25–15. With this win, UCSD 
improved its overall record to 19–10 
for the season and also advanced in 
the tournament as the third seed to 
face the second-seed, 19th-ranked Cal State San Bernardino on Friday. 
Entering the tournament as the sixth 
seed, Cal State Los Angeles was 
demoted to a 19–11 overall record 
for the season after its timely defeat 
by UCSD. 
For Thursday’s match, senior 
outside hitter Danielle Dahle 
brought the heat as she led all 
players in the match with 19 points 
scored on 19 kills. Alongside her, 
both junior outside hitter Meagan 
Wright and senior setter Heidi 
Sierks were able to bring home 
double-doubles for themselves. 
Wright earned her double-double 
with 17 kills and 15 digs, and Sierks 
earned her own double-double with 
50 assists and 14 digs. To add to her 
stat sheet, Sierks also recorded four 
blocks. Joining the elite stat tier with 
her fellow Tritons, sophomore libero 
and outside hitter Amanda Colla 
brought in a match-best 20 digs. Cal 
State Los Angeles’ senior outside hitter Iona Lofrano, despite the loss, 
took home the match-high 22 kills 
alongside her sizable 13 digs.  
Despite a good hitting percentage 
of .188 (51–21–160) from the Cal 
State Los Angeles Golden Eagles, 
the Tritons were still able to pull 
through with a win and a .238 
(61–21–168) hitting percentage. The 
Tritons swept the Golden Eagles 
3–0 this season, with past wins over 
them on Nov. 14 and Sept. 25. 
“ Any chance we have to prolong 
our season, considering it is my 
last, is like a dream come true, ” 
Dahle told the UCSD Athletics 
Department. ”We’re just trying to go 
as far as we can. ”
As the Tritons advanced 
into Friday for their semifinal 
match, second-seed Cal State San 
Bernardino improved to a 25–4 
overall record after sweeping 
seventh-seed Cal State Stanislaus 
and advancing to meet the Tritons in the quarterfinals. 
Semifinal Round
Cal State San Bernardino crushed 
the Tritons’ dreams for a ticket into 
the finals of the CCAA Tournament, 
beating them in four matches 3–1. The scores of the tense game 
were 25–17, 18–25, 25–19 and 25–
23. The game was a well-contested 
matchup between the second and W. VOLLEYBALL
CSUSB Defeats UCSD in Semifinals
UCSD defeats Cal State L.A. in the quarterfinals but gets ousted in the next round.See M. WATERPOLO , page 11
See W. VOLLEYBALL , page 11
Threepeat
Water polo wins third straight WWPA title 
and upsets No.9 UC Davis in the ﬁnal.
Written by Katie Potts  // Editorial Assistant
Photo by Megan Lee  // UCSD Guardian
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE /UCSD GUARDIANM. Basketball
M. Basketball
W. Basketball
W. Basketball
M. Basketball  11/24
  11/27
  11/27
  11/28
  11/28VS California Baptist
AT Holy Names
VS Dominican
VS Azusa Pacific
AT Notre Dame de Namur UPCOMING
UCSD
GAMES