VOLUME 50, ISSUE 5   THURSDA Y , OCTOBER 6, 2016  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
TRAVEL
TIPS
WHETHER IT’S YOUR WEEKEND 
GETAWAY, SUMMER ABROAD, 
FAMILY VACATION OR SOLO 
ADVENTURE, LIFESTYLE HAS 
YOUR TIPS AND TRIPS FOR A 
SEAMLESS JOURNEY.
HOUSING  CRISIS
WOMEN'S SOCCER ON FIREAFFORDABLE   SOLUTIONS
looking  like  title  contenders OPINION, P AGE 4
sports,  P age  12
FORECAST
VERBATIM
UCSD IS THE ONLY UC 
CAMPUS BESIDES BERKELEY  
TO BRAN DISH A ONE-YEAR 
HOUSING GUARANTEE . 
LOCATED SO CLOSE TO THE 
BORDER, UCSD SHOULD 
BE SETTING  AN EXAMPLE  
IN TERM S OF SERVING 
UNDOCUMENTE D STUDENTS, 
NOT LAGGING  BEHIN D.”
- Guardian Editorial Board
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
STATE INVESTMENT  .......2
PROP ENDORSEMENTS  ...4
BON IVER  ........................ 8
SUDOKU  ....................... 10
MEN’S GOLF  ................. 11LIFESTYLE,  P AGE 5  
PHOTO BY KAYLEY COX / GUARDIAN
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
The former UCSD Writing Center 
has transitioned into what is now the 
Writing + Critical Expression Hub, 
which operates as a sub-unit within the 
university’s new Teaching + Learning 
Commons on the first floor of the 
Geisel Library. The new resource has 
extended hours and offers a variety 
of services, including workshops 
and writing assistance for both 
undergraduate and graduate students 
as well as faculty members, all of which 
are free of charge. 
As former Writing Center Director 
Madeleine Picciotto explained to the 
UCSD Guardian, the Writing Center 
was an autonomous unit under the 
jurisdiction of the Council of Provosts 
established in 2012. Matt Nelson, director of the new 
Writing + Critical Expression Hub, 
told the Guardian the he hopes to 
continue providing UCSD’s students 
and faculty with the same services that 
the Writing Center offered.
“The Writing Center did amazing 
work to serve students across the 
colleges and established a standard for 
excellence and a scope of services that 
the Writing Hub has been asked to 
match, ” Nelson stated.
Nelson also noted that he hopes to 
promote writing as a way of thinking 
and forming ideas, rather than simply 
putting ideas on paper. 
“I think it’s valuable that we 
help more people recognize that 
writing is a way of thinking and a 
way of encountering your thinking, 
improving your thinking, ” Nelson said. 
“Even if you feel like writing isn’t what you’re super interested in as a student, 
it still has tremendous value for you. ” 
The main point of contact for 
undergraduate students remains 
undergraduate tutors, who conduct 
the one-on-one tutoring sessions and 
writing workshops. Eleanor Roosevelt 
College senior and Writing + Critical 
Expression Hub tutor Kyle Park 
described his work to the Guardian.
“ As a tutor, I work with students 
in 30-minute appointments for every 
part of the writing process, such as 
brainstorming, fine tuning and 
everything in between, ” Park said. “It’s 
more than just proofreading or editing 
— both the student and mentor are 
actively engaged in deconstructing 
assignments. ”
Park said he enjoys his working 
environment and feels that doing his University 
Constructs New 
Biology Building 
in Revelle CAMPUS
The seven-story, 128,000 
square-foot building will 
feature offices, classrooms, 
laboratories and an auditorium.
BY   M a t t h e w  Z a m u d i o
Staff Writer
The Facilities Design and 
Construction department is 
constructing a biological and 
physical sciences building near 
Revelle College, creating more 
classrooms and laboratories to 
facilitate the rapidly growing fields 
of study currently housed in the 
Natural Science Building. The 
project began this summer, but the 
ceremonial groundbreaking will 
take place on Oct. 14. The facility 
is expected to be completed in          
June 2018. 
The seven-story, 128,000 square-
foot facility, which cost $111 million, 
will be utilized by students and 
scientists working in fields ranging 
from neurobiology to biochemistry. 
It will feature offices, classrooms 
and laboratories as well as eight 
undergraduate teaching labs amid 
one of the largest auditoriums 
on campus, with seating for                         
175 students. 
In the basement, researchers will 
examine molecules using a state-of-
the-art laser facility and a National 
Institutes of Health national resource 
for NMR molecular imaging                 
of proteins. 
“NMR, or nuclear magnetic 
resonance spectroscopy, is a 
powerful tool used by chemists 
to understand the chemistry of 
molecules, particularly proteins, ” 
Kim McDonald, the director of 
science communications, told the 
UCSD Guardian. 
Designed by Los Angeles-based 
CO Architects — who drew up 
the model for the nearly finished 
Outpatient Pavillion at La Jolla’s 
Health Science campus, to be 
completed this May — the new 
Biological and Physical Sciences 
Building will be constructed with 
the environment and California’s 
depleted water supply in mind, 
McDonald explained. This green 
objective is to be achieved by 
outfitting the building with eco-
friendly gadgets and appliances.
“The building will inspire a 
45-percent water-use reduction 
system through energy-efficient 
equipment and fixtures, drought-
tolerant plantings and a condensate 
recovery system, ” McDonald said.
From 2003 to 2014, the number 
of students majoring in biology 
increased by 95 percent, a statistic 
McDonald cited as one of the major 
reasons why a new science building 
is needed on campus. She also 
cited the expected undergraduate 
admissions increase.
“ As you probably know with Regents Shuttle To Be 
Rerouted Again
The UCSD East/Regents shuttle connecting the Regents 
parking lot with the rest of the campus will be rerouted for 
the second time this school year on Oct. 10, UCSD Fleet and 
Shuttle Operations confirmed to the UCSD Guardian. The 
route, which originally began at the Price Center turnout 
and changed to the Gilman transit stop as of Sept. 19, will 
again be moved to start at the Rupertus Lane bus cutout 
across from the Student Services Center. 
Assistant Director of Fleet and Shuttle Operations Jim 
Ruby informed the Guardian that the route will be adjusted 
for a number of reasons, including to improve traffic flow.
“The reason for this change is to reduce congestion and 
to address safety concerns at the Gilman Transit Center, 
while maintaining convenient access to multiple transit 
routes, ” Ruby said.
Ruby also listed four reasons for the initial relocation 
of the shuttle stop from Price Center to Gilman Drive: to 
accommodate the School of Medicine staff and faculty, to 
avoid the Light Rail construction and Voigt bridge widening 
project, to prepare for the Gilman Bridge construction and to circumnavigate the congestion at Price Center.
According to Ruby, the purpose of choosing a location 
convenient for those at the School of Medicine was to 
“[encourage] them to utilize one-time parking in the 
Athena/Medical Center area and to then use shuttles for 
commuting between East Campus and the more parking-
constrained campus core. ”
Ruby further clarified that due to the multiple 
construction projects in progress, the stop would have been 
relocated at some point this year, if not in September.
“With Light Rail Transit construction and the Voigt 
bridge widening project beginning during the academic 
year, we decided to make this change now, instead of making 
the change midway through the academic year, ” Ruby stated. 
“With the [additional] completion of the new Gilman 
bridge in the next 12 to 18 months, the shuttle stop would 
be permanently moved to this location due to Voigt bridge 
closure and replacement project. ”
Esperanza Gutierrez, chair of the All Campus Commuter 
Board, added overcrowding of the East/Regent shuttle B y  Lauren  Hol t    Associate News EditorMEN’S SOCCER
Writing + Critical Expression Hub Replaces Writng Center
The Hub offers a variety of services to undergraduate and graduate students as well as facuty members.See SHUTTLE , page 3
CAMPUS
By  M a r i a  S e b as
See BUILDING , page 3 See WRITING , page 3CAMPUS
News Editor“
Last Friday, the Tritons ended their game with Sonoma State in a 0-0 tie. The team’s next match will be this Friday at San 
Francisco State University at 3 p.m. Photo by Christian Duarte // UCSD Guardian2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 6, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
EVERY NOW AND THEN By David Juarez
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
Quinn hate Troye Sivn. The views expressed herein do not 
necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, 
the University of California or Associated Students. The 
UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising. j
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Caroline Lee
Marketing Director
Peter McInnis
Training and Development Manager
Allison Kubo
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Tina Butoiu
Jacky To
Marcus Thuillier
Maria Sebas
Lauren Holt
Quinn Pieper
Dev Jain
Oliver Kelton
Sam Velazquez
Naftali Burakovsky
Brittney Lu
Christian Duarte
Joselynn Ordaz
Aleya Zenieris
Kenji Bennett
Ayat Amin
Christina Carlson
Sophia Huang
Sage Schubert ChristianEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
 
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Multimedia Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editors
Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Aleya Zenieris, Quinn Pieper
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim, Alicia Ho, Lisa Chik
Editorial Assistants
Nathaniel Walker, Lisa Chik, Alex Wu, Miguel ShekerCalifornia Invests Millions of  Dollars in UC System Entrepreneurhsip
The state will invest $2.2 million in each UC campus to promote diversity in entrepreneurship, expand infrastructure and support startups.UC SYSTEM
The California State Assembly 
passed a bill on Sept. 30 to invest 
$22 million among all ten UC 
campuses equally to encourage 
entrepreneurship and innovation. 
Assembly Bill 2664, authored by 
Assemblymember Jacqui Irwin 
(D-Thousand Oaks), will give each 
campus $2.2 million to develop 
programs to encourage diversity 
in entrepreneurship, allocate  
resources to support small startups, 
and expand infrastructure for the 
development of new technologies 
and services. It was signed by Gov. 
Brown on the same day it passed 
through the legislature. 
Irwin explained that the bill 
was created in recognition of the 
fact that UC campuses play an 
influential role in their respective 
regional economies, but there is a 
disconnect between the research 
and the commercialization. 
“The UC system has long been 
a source of innovative ideas and 
groundbreaking research, which often don’t find their way out of 
the classroom, ” Irwin said in a press 
release. “This funding will help 
bridge the gap and bring research 
innovations to the marketplace. ”
Paul Roben, UCSD’s associate 
vice chancellor for innovation and 
commercialization, explained that 
the funding will be used to develop 
the campus’ core competencies for 
innovation and entrepreneurship. 
He emphasized three main 
endeavors: entrepreneurial 
education, supportive services, and 
partnerships both across UCSD’s 
campus and outside it.
“[The first element is] 
entrepreneurial and business 
education … things like boot 
camps and business training … for 
everybody, from undergraduates 
all the way to the faculty, ” Roben 
told the UCSD Guardian. “The 
second element to it is the start 
of services like startup incubation 
… and competitions [to encourage 
innovation] … aimed at any group 
of people who think they have an 
idea for a new company … [The 
last element] is partnerships and 
community outreach to develop stronger ties with … partners 
[within campus such as Rady School 
of Management, Health Sciences 
and the School of Engineering as 
well as] outside of the campus that 
are needed as the next step in the 
development pipeline … [like local] 
companies, the city [and not-for-
profits]. ”
Christine Gulbranson, the UC 
senior vice president for research 
innovation and entrepreneurship, 
spoke of the influx of money as a 
sound investment on the part of 
the state.
“UC is second to none in 
terms of the scope and scale of 
our innovative and entrepreneurial 
potential, ”  Gulbranson said in a 
press release. “This investment by 
the Legislature, and the private 
sector leverage it spurs, will ensure 
successful outcomes for years to 
come. ”
Roben also emphasized the 
importance of diversity and 
inclusion in developing these kinds 
of programs, citing the desire to 
engage populations that normally 
are not engaged in entrepreneurship 
or innovation.“[These programs are] also 
aimed at driving more diversity 
and inclusion in the whole process, ” 
Roben said. “So there are programs 
specifically targeted for women, 
veterans, the Native American 
population … [and the disciplines 
of] the arts and humanities and 
social sciences. ” 
He expressed his appreciation 
of the funding as a way to catalyze 
the current culture of innovation on 
UCSD’s campus. 
“When I go out to the 
undergraduate population and 
I see how creative and innovative 
they are, it keeps me coming to 
work every day, ” Roben told the 
Guardian. “It’s just amazing to see 
what these students are capable of if 
you give them the resources and the 
environment to do it … [and this 
bill] gives us the financial resources 
to strengthen what we are already 
doing and maybe to accelerate 
the speed at which we are able to 
develop and roll out these programs 
for students and faculty. ” BY  R e b e c ca  C h o n g 
Staff writer
Rebecca Chong   rcchong@ucsd.edu
UCSDGUARDIAN.orgCHEck  Us  out @NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 6, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
job is a rewarding experience.
“I enjoy the casual, supportive 
work environment alongside dedicated 
and enthusiastic peer mentors, ” Park 
said. “It’s also an incredible learning 
experience to empower other students 
by refining their writing skills. ”Gabriele Weinhausen, faculty 
director of the Teaching + Learning 
Commons, told the Guardian that 
the establishment of the Commons 
was included in Chancellor Khosla’s 
Strategic Plan for UCSD, which he 
released in 2014.
“ As the chancellor described in his 
strategic plan, he had an explicit goal to support teaching and learning on this 
campus at the system level by creating 
the Teaching + Learning Commons, ” 
Weinhausen said.
Weinhausen also noted that the 
Commons will continue to expand its 
teaching capacity in the future.
“This is just the start of a really, 
completely new support system for everybody who is an educator and 
anybody who is a student. ”
The Teaching + Learning 
Commons will host a ribbon-cutting 
ceremony and open house on Monday, 
Oct. 17. Student open houses will be 
held periodically until that date.
this year’s large entering freshman 
class, UC San Diego will need to 
make available more teaching and 
laboratory facilities for the 6,000 
additional undergraduates that 
will be admitted over the next five 
years, many of whom will want to 
major in science or engineering, ” 
McDonald stated.
Thurgood Marshall College 
sophomore Revati Rashingkar, a 
physiology and neuroscience major, 
believes the new facility will be 
beneficial to science majors, such 
as herself like, who study in a 
department with a disproportionate 
student-to-faculty ratio. “Undergraduate lower division 
science classes are usually crowded, ” 
Rashingkar said. “The [Biological 
and Physical Sciences Building] will 
be beneficial to students who choose 
to take labs. ”
However, Rashinkar expressed 
concern about the loss of plant life 
and open space on campus.
“I think it’s great that UCSD 
is creating more resources for 
students, ” she said, “But it also 
means the loss of green space, which 
we don’t have a lot of in the middle 
of campus. ”
Still, Rashingkar said that “new 
labs will create more slots and 
will make it less of a struggle for everyone to get the lab they want 
[or] need. ”
McDonald echoed her sentiment.
“The [Biological and Physical 
Sciences Building] will allow UCSD 
to continue to provide science 
and engineering students with the 
necessary teaching and laboratory 
facilities so they can graduate in a 
timely manner, ” McDonald said. 
The construction of the 
Biological and Physical Sciences 
Building comes after years of award-
winning research and development 
in the STEM departments at UCSD, 
and follows suit with the pace of 
construction on campus in recent 
years, which saw the erection of at least six STEM facilities since 2010. 
When asked about how the 
new addition will affect UCSD’s 
reputation as a STEM epicenter, 
McDonald replied optimistically. 
“UC San Diego is considered 
a world leader in the fields of 
neurobiology, quantitative biology, 
chemistry and, in particular, 
research on the mind and brain, ” 
McDonald said. “So the [Biological 
and Physical Sciences Building] will 
allow our university to build on 
these strengths to continue to recruit 
the best faculty in the world. ”as another reason for the shuttle’s 
rerouting but explained that she felt 
students should have been included in 
the relocation discussion.
“The change was made to 
attain a larger bus to accommodate 
overcrowding; however, to my 
understanding, PC loop does nothave  
enough space to allow a larger bus 
to pass through, ” Gutierrez told the Guardian. “I do feel, however, the 
sudden change should have engaged 
students in the process and allowed 
sufficient time to provide student input 
to focus on alternatives and notify the 
commuter community ahead of time. ”
Gutierrez also remarked that the 
change in location was unfortunate, 
but it should not be too disruptive 
to students.
“I believe the change will not drastically affect students, but it is 
inconvenient placing students in an 
already congested space on Gilman, ” 
Gutierrez said. “The change can affect 
schedule changes on students. ”
In addition, Ruby noted that there 
are no current plans to change other 
shuttle routes.
“[There are no other route 
adjustments] at the moment; however, 
we will need to remain flexible and be prepared to make the necessary 
changes as the campus grows and 
changes during this growth, ” Ruby 
stated. “When these changes do occur, 
we will work hard to communicate 
them to our campus constituents so 
that there are no surprises. ”
 
New Building’s Construction Follows Suit With Pace of  Constuction on Campus in Recent Years▶ SHUTTLE,  from page 1
▶ WRITING,  from page 1Gutierrez: Route Change Will Not Drastically Affect Students But Can Affect Their Schedules
Teaching + Learning Commons Will Host Ribbon-Cutting Ceremony on Monday, Oct. 17Lauren Hol t   lcholt@ucsd.edu
Maria  Sebas   msebas@ucsd.edu
Ma tthew Zamudio   m1zamudi@ucsd.edu 
We will stream 
UCSD’s A.S. 
Council 
meeting live 
every Wednesday 
night at 6 p.m 
on the “UCSD 
Guardian” 
YouTube channel.A.S. 
COUNCIL 
LIVE!G-SPAN
▶ BUILDING,  from page 14  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 6, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
QUINN PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Ever since UC President Janet 
Napolitano announced that the eight 
undergraduate campuses would 
enroll an additional 5,000 California 
residents this academic year — 750 
at UCSD alone — students have 
prophesied the severe consequences 
this move would bring about. It 
was clear to us all that the UC 
campuses would not be able to 
meet the basic needs of such a large 
student population when the current 
population’s accommodations are already sparse. 
We’re currently in a moment 
where some of our most pessimistic 
theories have come to fruition 
— overcrowded dorms, scarce off-
campus housing and bus lines longer 
than the buses themselves. With UC 
administration adamant on doubling 
down by adding another 5,000 
residents over the next two years — 
and the only official plan put forth is 
one to add 14,000 more beds by 2020 
— it’s time they present and enact effective solutions to a problem. 
Students didn’t ask for housing 
shortages caused by administrative 
zeal, but they’re being forced to pay 
for it.
No Homes Left Behind
While the search for off-campus 
housing has always been a rough and 
relentless process — countless open 
houses, exorbitant application fees, 
sketchy Craigslist meetups — this past summer has been increasingly 
difficult for UCSD students seeking 
refuge from mini-doubles and 
converted triples. 
As demand for off-campus 
housing has skyrocketed, so have 
prices. At La Jolla International 
Gardens, a residential hot spot for 
UCSD students, a two-bedroom 
apartment starts at a monthly price 
of $2090. Just a year ago, however, 
the same apartment cost $245 less 
at a reasonable rate of $1845 per 
month. Less than a block away at the 
La Regencia Apartments, the rental 
price of a two-bedroom apartment 
starts at an even more exorbitant 
$2450, whereas two years ago, it was 
approximately $1800. This pricing 
surge represents an inflation rate 
well beyond that of other markets in 
the United States and, paired with 
tuition hikes, is plunging our student 
population into the housing crisis 
they anticipated.As many have anticipated, 
the UC’s influx of 
enrolled students is 
proving to be problematic 
given the lack of readily 
available housing. 
Between subsidizing off-
campus housing, creating 
emergency housing and 
constructing new dorms, it 
is clear that the university 
must think creatively and 
quickly to accommodate 
the influx of students in 
the coming years. 
See HOUSING, page 5
ILLUSTRATION BY SAMI XU
What’s in a House? Evidently More Students ThanPossible
DOING THE MOST FOR THE ENVIRONMENT 
AND THE ENVIRONMENT ONLY
    Plastic bags have long been a pain 
in the back of our planet’s ecosystem. 
Every year, U.S. consumers use a total 
of approximately 100 billion plastic 
shopping bags, but only recycle 
about 5 percent of them. Moreover, 
California’s plastic bag recycling rate 
is estimated to be between only 1 and 
3 percent, causing around 247 million 
pounds of plastic — 24 million bags 
— to end up in land fill. Those that 
don’t end up in land fill end up in 
oceans, lakes and waterways where 
they are mistakenly eaten by animals.
To help solve this problem, nearly 150 
local cities and counties in California 
have voted to “ban” single-use plastic 
bags — consumers are charged a 
minimum of 10 cents per bag. In 
November, Californians will have 
the power to extend this policy to a 
statewide level by voting “YES” on 
Proposition 67, a solid step towards 
decelerating the degradation of 
our planet. Though this would cost shoppers a bit more, rest assured that 
low-income consumers — those who 
use a voucher or payment card issued 
by the California Special Supplemental 
Food Program, like EBT — are exempt 
from the extra charge.
    Though Prop 67 will certainly 
bene fit the environment, another 
proposition on the ballot only 
pretends it will. Prop 65 — which 
requires grocers to deposit the 
bag sale proceeds into a fund 
administered by the Wildlife 
Conservation Board — forces store 
owners to bear all the costs of a 
plastic bag ban. The intention is to 
erode local business’ support and 
prevent Prop 67 from getting passed, 
which would render Prop 65 null. 
Even if both did pass, the funds 
would have marginal impact on the 
environment, especially a fter plastic 
bag usage diminishes. Focus on what 
counts by voting “YES” on Prop 67 
and “NO” on Prop 65.PROMOTE DUAL-LANGUAGE EDUCATION
   Through Proposition 58, voters 
have the opportunity to lay a strong 
groundwork for equitable and 
accessible bilingual education in 
California.
    This groundwork was not laid 
by Prop 227 — passed in 1998 and 
championed by a PBS-described 
“Silicon Valley millionaire” — which 
required California public school 
teachers to instruct primarily in 
English. Requiring waivers for 
students who wished to pursue 
foreign-language immersion 
programs, the bill added an 
unnecessary barrier to dual-language 
immersion programs in a state 
where, according to the U.S. Census 
Office, 38 percent of the state’s 
population speaks Spanish alone. It 
is now time to listen to the multiple 
education-based interest groups and 
teacher associations who opposed 
Prop 227 and support Prop 58.
    Passing 58 could help make 
schools like San Diego’s Sherman 
Elementary School the norm. Since 
Sherman Elementary introduced 
Spanish-language education that 
implements phonetics, Sherman Elementary, where 84 percent of 
students are lower-income and 74 
percent are English-learners, 49 
percent of English-learning students 
at the school surpassed standards 
on the Common Core tests last year. 
According to Voice of San Diego, 
California’s average for English-
learning students is five percent. 
English-speaking students, too, 
proved to surpass their monolingual 
counterparts under this program.
    What has changed since Prop 227 
passed is readily available research 
demonstrating the value of dual-
language immersion in public 
schools. According to a Stanford 
study, young students participating 
in dual-language immersion 
programs continued to improve 
in English and in other subjects 
throughout primary education, while 
“graduates of English immersion 
programs o ften reached a plateau … 
and performed consistently worse 
in others subject areas, ” as reported 
by PBS. Prop 58 will send California 
in the right direction in regards to 
tearing down barriers to biliteracy 
and accessibility.Proposition 57 aims to increase 
parole opportunities for nonvio -
lent criminals and make the justice 
system more lenient towards minors 
by allowing judges, rather than DA ’s, 
decide whether to try juveniles as 
adults. This is an excellent first step in 
reforming California’s justice system 
into a system focused on rehabilita -
tion rather than punishment, giving 
non-violent o ffenders a second chance 
at becoming productive members 
of society.  Furthermore, with an 
overloaded prison system, it is time 
that California begins to focus less on 
imprisoning criminals who pose little 
threat to public safety  and more on 
violent criminals who do pose a threat 
to the public. The proposition will 
take a step toward reducing  the unjust 
practice of trying minors as young 
as 14 years old as adults, which o ften 
results in longer prison sentences and 
gives the youngest members of society 
fewer chances at redemption, at an 
age when they are most deserving of 
redemption. Though Proposition 57 
will not entirely fix our justice system, 
it will be a vast improvement.OPPORTUNITY FOR A 
FAIRER JUSTICE SYSTEMConverted Mini-Doubles and 
Averted Housing Troubles: 
UCSD In Need of 
Solutions Quickly
YES ON PROP 57
YES ON PROP 67; NO ON 65YES ON PROP 58
A Year In PropsA Year In Props
The Guardian Editorial Board endorses the props we 
think matter most in the upcoming election.OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 6, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
Students, You Have One 
Year
Undocumented students, many 
unable to receive federal and state 
aid because of their citizenship 
status, are put in a particularly 
difficult position. With many 
coming from lower-income families 
and a lack of fallbacks, there’s a 
financial strain that falls almost 
directly on the student. Without 
the ability to run a credit check — 
which requires a Social Security 
number — the application process 
at most complexes ends before it 
begins. Besides UCSD’s meager 
one-year housing guarantee, there 
are no assurances for a community 
that needs it. Although the 
Undocumented Student Services 
Center provides assistance by 
connecting students to fellowships, 
grants and other aid, it’s only 
treating the symptoms of the 
problem at hand. 
Other UC campuses 
have managed to circumvent 
undocumented students’ housing 
issues by guaranteeing more 
than one year of housing. UCSB 
guarantees four years, UCLA 
guarantees three years and five 
other campuses each guarantee two 
years. UCSD is the only UC campus 
besides Berkeley to brandish a one-
year housing guarantee. Located so 
close to the border, UCSD should be 
setting an example in terms of taking 
care of undocumented students, 
not lagging behind. Extending 
the on-campus housing guarantee 
for undocumented students is an 
overdue, necessary solution.
     I Bed You Adieu
As part of the UCSD’s “Living 
Learning Neighborhood” plan, the 
university will build residential 
buildings, which are expected to 
house approximately 2,000 students, atop the parking lot between Muir 
College and Thurgood Marshall 
College. While this is certainly a 
positive move in and of itself, it 
would merely mitigate the loss of 
housing in Sixth College that the 
construction of the UCSD trolley will 
bring about. Furthermore, with the 
building construction not set to be 
fully completed until spring 2021, the 
university lacks immediate solutions 
that can benefit students over the 
next five years.
A solution that is sometimes 
proposed in the face of college 
housing shortages is subsidizing 
off-campus housing. In doing 
so, UCSD would not only secure 
housing for students in need of it 
but the university would be able to 
circumvent the years of construction 
required to create new residential 
buildings. However, it could take 
several years for UCSD to organize 
such deals with off-campus 
apartment complexes, rendering the 
idea more of a long-term goal than 
an immediate fix. 
Another short-term option 
that could help students currently 
without a place to live is emergency 
housing. Under this system, the 
university would have ownership of 
several apartments that they could 
temporarily rent out to a student who 
is in need of housing, whether due 
to rent complications or any sudden 
lack of housing. This would be for 
a short period. In the meantime, 
a university-hired advisor would 
work with the student to secure a 
living space for the remainder of the 
year. A.S. President Daniel Juarez is 
currently considering this type of 
plan, among others, in an effort to 
address the expansion of affordable 
housing for UCSD students.
These are the kinds of ideas that 
need to be implemented, or at the 
very least discussed, in the very 
near future. Without them, housing-
insecure students will continue to 
carry an unnecessary and unfair 
burden that is preventing them from 
focusing on their education. ▶ HOUSING from page 4 SUPPORT SCHOOLS FOR THE LONG RUN
Proposition 51 seeks to address 
California’ s extreme lack of funding 
for improving school facilities, but it 
really only provides short-term relief 
for a constant problem and prevents 
pre-existing issues with the state’ s 
program from being resolved.  
Prop 51 seeks to create the 2016 
State School Facilities Fund and 
finance it with a $9 billion general 
obligation bond. Since the first SSFF 
was established in 1994 by a ballot 
measure, there have been bond 
initiatives every few years providing 
more money for school construction 
accompanied by massive amounts 
of interest. Y et, modernizing and 
constructing school facilities is 
an ongoing issue. By consistently 
renewing bonds, California is treating 
a permanent problem like it is 
temporary. 
However, Prop 51’ s biggest issues 
are with the bill’ s two other changes — 
preventing amendment to developer 
fees and to the format of the SSFF . 
The SSFF does not, in most cases, 
cover the full cost of a modernization 
or construction project. Instead, the state pays for 50 to 60 percent of the 
amount, and school districts finance 
the rest. Developer fees, which are 
the fees school districts receive for 
commercial/industrial building, are 
one of the main sources of revenue 
that schools use to pay their local 
share. By blocking amendment to 
these fees, Prop 51 prevents school 
districts from raising the amount to 
fund their projects. Furthermore, the 
SSFF has several issues with its setup; 
most obviously that it is first-come-
first-serve and not need-based. This 
results in schools with more resources 
that likely need updates less getting 
their projects financed, instead of the 
poorer schools that need it most. Prop 
51 would prevent that problem, and 
all others, from being reformed. 
While Prop 51 appears to bene fit 
the state and students in particular 
with its bipartisan support, it is more 
of an attempt for developers to pro fit 
while hiding behind the promise of 
school funding. California should 
forego this opportunity for the 
chance to mold the SSFF into a better 
program with regular funding. 
If voters pass Proposition 62, the 
Repeal of the Death Penalty Initiative, 
California will  join 20 other states 
— and the majority of developed 
countries — in abolishing the death 
penalty. Advocates of tough-on-
crime policies may insist that the 
penalty acts as an e ffective deterrent 
to murder; the statistics, however, tell 
a much di fferent story. A 2014 study 
by the Death Penalty Information 
Center revealed that states without 
capital punishment show consistently 
lower murder rates than those that 
do. Unlike imprisonment, the death 
penalty is an irreversible punish -
ment, which is morally questionable given that some prisoners on death 
row may be innocent of the crimes 
for which they are convicted. In fact, 
since 1989, DNA evidence has exon -
erated 20 people who were sitting on 
death row, illustrating that this is not 
a complete rarity. Even in terms of 
efficiency death row leaves a lot to be 
desired: Between pre-trial and trial 
costs, appeals and state habeus corpus 
petitions, federal habeus corpus ap -
peals and costs of incarceration, the 
implementation of the death penalty 
in California costs the state roughly 
184 million dollars per year. Being 
neither just nor e fficient, abolishment 
of the death penalty is long overdue.    The legalization of marijuana has 
long been a contentious topic in 
California. Just six years ago legal -
izing marijuana was on a November 
ballot as Prop 19, but failed to pass 
with 53.5 percent of voters reject -
ing it. This year, voters have the 
opportunity to legalize marijuana 
for the sake of maximizing state rev -
enue and improving upon outdated 
marijuana-possession policy.
    Decades of aggressive criminal 
laws have proved to be fruitless: 
Black and Latino communities are 
disproportionately targeted and 
incarcerated through discrimina -
tory enforcement of marijuana laws. 
With marijuana possession being 
categorized as a misdemeanor as 
of 2010, the new initiative would 
take the step forward in according 
records and sentences with current 
policy. If passed, Prop 64 would 
enable individuals currently serving 
time for marijuana possessions con -
viction to request shorter sentences, 
and to have their records changed.
    Above all else, marijuana remains 
widely consumed and accessible via 
medical recommendations. Through 
the implementation of a state tax on 
the commercial cultivation and sale 
of marijuana, revenue is estimated 
to reach one billion dollars each 
year. This revenue would fund sub -
stance abuse treatment for youth, 
environmental restoration and 
research on medical marijuana. 
    It is true that not everything is 
clear moving forward with legaliza -
tion. Establishing a THC limit to in -
dicate driving under the in fluence, 
for one, is something that must be 
addressed soon a fter legalization. 
However, with the enormity of 
potential revenue, there is no time 
to waste.YES ON PROP 19LEGALIZE 
MARIJUANA
ABOLISH THE DEATH PENALTYNO ON PROP 51
YES ON PROP 62
YES ON PROP 57I’m interested in the places you’ve written about — most of your content is on state parks and other 
“natural” areas of the US. Is there a reason you wanted to concentrate your content on these types of places 
in particular?
What direction do you hope your blog will take in the future? The title of my blog comes from a psalm in the Bible. It’s part of Psalm 33:5 that says, “the earth 
is full of the Lord’s unfailing love. ” I really love this verse because I feel that it communicates how the 
world’s beauty re flects God’s love. That’s a huge part of what inspires me to travel and explore: being 
in God’s creation and seeing all that he designed. 
It’s a pretty simple answer, but I love being outside! I’ve been visiting national parks before I could even 
walk; it’s how I grew up. My parents transferred this passion for the outdoors to me, and now that I can 
explore on my own, I want to share that passion with the world. I’ve even been known to persuade many non-
hikers to go on adventures with me. I’ve also been inspired by many travel bloggers and appreciate insider tips 
on beautiful places, so I wanted to do the same. I hope that by writing about natural places, people feel more 
comfortable accessing them on their own.
I still have a lot more content to add to my blog, as I visit new places as o ften as I can. I 
also have a lot more San Diego area hikes, hidden gems and local spots to add to the blog. 
Overall, though, I hope that my blog will become a helpful resource to those wanting to 
hike or explore. I want the information to be easily accessible and insightful. For example, I 
hope to introduce more helpful guides such as tips on directions, what to bring and di fficulty 
levels. I have many more trips and ideas in the works, so my content will continually expand. G:
G:
G:K:
K:
K:Was there a meaning behind why you chose to call your blog “the earth is full?”KAYLEY  COX
It’s no surprise media is the ultimate sharing and collective experience. For Kayley Cox — a Thurgood 
Marshall College senior graduating this spring, majoring in molecular biology and minoring in 
literature writing — the Internet has become her platform for sharing experiences with the world. 
“The Earth is Full” is a captivating and breathtaking travel blog exposing the beauty of the world 
around us, coupled with personal adventure tips that she so sel flessly shares with her audience. And if 
Kayley’s adventures don’t inspire readers to go on their own, I’m not quite sure what will. Read on to 
get the backstory of these personal adventures turned public experience.Travel Blogger & Creator Of “The Earth is Full”  
Compiled by Guardian StaffInterested in checking out Kayley’s adventures or want to be inspired to go on your own? 
Check it out at http://theearthisfull.com! Interview by Brittney Lu // Lifestyle Editor
I started this blog as a way to create a space to share my adventures. I wanted 
to look back on memories from trips and inspire people who read my posts. I wanted to 
grow as a writer, increase my media presence and branch out in a new hobby. For the blog, 
I really wanted it to be an inspiring space for readers to see all the world has to o ffer, and get inspired 
to go out and adventure. GUARDIAN :
KAYLEY :When you first started this blog, what was the vision for yourself? For the blog?
A&E EDITOR // SAM VELAZQUEZ
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // BRITTNEY LU
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
WEEKEND
TRITON
TO W A TCH
Is there a favorite place you’ve visited? And on the other hand, is there a place you have yet to explore and write about?
My favorite place so far is the top of Half Dome in Yosemite Valley. I have visited Yosemite National Park 
too many times to count, and I’ve always stared up at Half Dome wondering what its view would look like. 
So, last year, I finally checked that sixteen-mile hike o ff my bucket list and made it to the top of Half Dome. 
It’s incredible to have a lifelong goal come true, and the experience couldn’t have been any better. I sat at the 
top for an hour just taking in the view and cherishing the accomplishment. I have so many places I am still 
itching to explore, but the next park I want to visit is Joshua Tree National Park. It’s known for its unique trees 
and endless boulders, so I can’t wait to see them with my own eyes. G:
K:
Photos by Kayley Cox
TipsHow to Save Money While Traveling How to get the most likes on Instagram
How to Pack Light for TravelHow to Not Look Like a Tourist While Traveling
tDon’t eat at the obvious tourist restaurants and look 
up free days at local museums 
tSkip overpaying for cabs and walk, take the subway 
or any other public transit tFind the o fficial tourist Instagram account for the city or country 
you’re in and use their hashtag. Use other hashtags and tag travel IG 
accounts that feature photos. Carry a portable battery around so your 
phone/camera is always ready. Post while you’re still on the trip, but 
pay attention to time zones so you’re not actually posting at 3 a.m. 
tYou  n e v e r  n e e d  a s  mu c h  s tu ff as you think. While packing, lay 
out all your clothes to see what you intend to bring before you 
pack. See where you can consolidate or remove items, layer and 
reuse when possible. Eliminate the unnecessary
tDon’t pack too much outerwear. The vagaries of life, but 
especially our fear of them, are more than enough reason to 
prepare for the unexpected. So whether you’re in San Francisco 
or San Diego, make sure to carry no more than a few basic 
sweaters and jackets. Simple colors (a black, a while, or a grey) 
that are easy to mix up expand a wardrobe with little e ffort. 
Keep it simple and don’t chunk up your bags with that old 
“Kale” sweater tDon’t carry a sel fie stick. Nothing makes someone stand out in sea of people like a stick, 
so leave the sel fie stick at home. Instead, blend in and take a sel fie using that frontal 
camera and showcase a landscape with that panoramic feature. And if you have a big 
group? Just ask someone to take a photo for you. Y ou’ll give yourself away as being 
a tourist to your new friend and photographer, but at least you will not go around 
carrying your stick.  
tIf you’re going to a foreign country, make sure you know at least a few words of the 
language. Y ou don’t need to be fluent, but just knowing your P’s and Q’s and how to ask 
directions can get you a long way and earn you the locals’ respect. — Oliver, Features
tDon’t use Y elp, and ask locals about the food scene. Don’t be afraid to try new food, or 
check out grocery stores near you. Or, find a friendly Grandma to take you in (don’t 
actually do this) WEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 6, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
C3 IoT is Hiring the Brightest Minds in
DATA SCIENCE
C3 IoT is meeting a fast-growing demand for machine-learning IoT applications that enable 
organizations in data-intensive industries to use real-time performance monitoring and 
predictive analytics to optimize business processes, differentiate products and services, and 
create new revenue streams. C3 IoT is a comprehensive Platform as a Service (PaaS) for the 
rapid design, development, deployment, and operation of next-generation IoT applications.     
www.c3iot.comAre you ready to:
Discover, develop, and implement the next generation of big data analytics
Tackle huge data sets employing the latest technologies for industrial-scale projects and 
global customers
Enable enterprise customers to embrace data-driven predictions and decision making
Work with an internationally-recognized team of IT, software, and data science experts
Join a high-growth enterprise software company in the heart of Silicon Valley
Make an impact and have fun doing what you love, while building your ideal career
“C3 IoT has developed some of the most sophisticated applications
of machine learning and forecasting techniques for today’s 
modern enterprise systems.
            — S. Shankar Sastry,  Dean, College of Engineering, University of California, Berkeley
”
APPLY TODAY:
View position details
and submit resume:
c3iot.com/careers TARA  TRAVELS : 
A Look at CroatiaThe Eastern European country of Croatia is truly a hidden gem. Surrounded by inviting, 
yet secluded, islands and packed with expansive, green national parks, Croatia has beauty 
at every corner. A place yet to be discovered by the majority of American tourists, traveling 
to Croatia creates the unique opportunity to be totally immersed in European culture. Here 
are four things that you have to see.
Plitvice Lakes National Park is one the highlights of 
Croatia. The park stretches over 73,000 acres of land and is 
home to some of the most beautiful sights I have ever seen 
in my life. New waterfalls are constantly being formed, so 
you can lose yourself for hours exploring the amazing land 
where the water is a beautiful and calming turquoise. 
PRO TIP - Bring a poncho if you don’t want to get soaked by 
the falls!The second Croatian must-see is Krka National Park, 
famously known for allowing visitors to swim near 
a massive waterfall. With clear waters and sunshine 
surrounding you, you will not regret swimming in this 
breathtaking scenery. 
PRO TIP - The water might feel impossibly cold, but you’ll get 
used to it quickly! 
Last but not least, one of the most popular tourist 
destinations in Croatia is the city of Dubrovnik. 
The most unique feature of this city is its historic 
walls that run the perimeter for two kilometers. 
This landmark is also famously known as one of 
the shooting locations for “Game of Thrones. ” 
PRO TIP - Be sure to walk the walls in the late 
afternoon, otherwise the sun will get you! 
Third: the island of Korcula. Only a short ferry ride away from 
the mainland of Croatia, Korcula is a beautiful weekend getaway, 
and possibly home to the tastiest food in Croatia. Because it is an 
island, there are amazing fresh seafood options. 
PRO TIP - If you are not feeling seafood, opt for the delicious 
homemade pasta dishes.Words & Photos by Tara Nejad//  Lifestyle Staff Writer8    THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 6, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  WEEKEND
The name “Deepwater 
Horizon, ” the offshore 
oil rig whose failure 
resulted in the largest oil 
spill in history, usually elicits 
images of oil-drenched seagulls 
and turtles. Certainly, the 
environmental impact of the 
oil spill cannot be overstated, 
but the film’s depiction of the 
tragedy focuses on the more 
popcorn-friendly aspect of the 
disaster: the explosion of the 
oil rig. This disaster flick tells 
the story of how human error 
and misjudgement in the face 
of corporate pressure resulted 
in the catastrophic failure of the 
Deepwater Horizon. 
This disaster film is a well-
paced visual spectacle, yet it is 
hardly more entertaining than 
any run-of-the-mill action 
blockbuster. And while the film 
features a strong ensemble cast, there is hardly enough dialogue 
or screen time for any meaningful 
character development. Certainly 
the fact that the characters and 
events are real adds gravity to the 
story, but “Deepwater Horizon” 
isn’t able to capture this gravity. It 
is gritty and realistic, yet lacks the 
artistic effort of a compelling film.
As BP rig supervisor Donald 
Vidrine (John Malkovich) 
explains, every company has 
many moving parts. If the rig 
workers don’t do their jobs 
properly, BP’s profits may be 
hurt. When BP managers don’t do 
their jobs properly, an oil rig may 
explode. “Deepwater Horizon, ” 
however, has very few moving 
parts. After Mike Williams (Mark 
Wahlberg) and Jimmy Harrell 
(Kurt Russell) land aboard the 
impressive oil rig, they quickly 
realize that corporate managers, 
who are falling behind schedule, have been deliberately skirting 
safety measures to cut down 
on lost time. Such practices are 
all too familiar in corporate 
ecological disasters. The real 
story of BP’s corporate hierarchy 
and profit maximization strategy 
is hardly interesting to anyone, 
but the results of the story are 
nevertheless harrowing. 
“Deepwater Horizon” is a 
simple, focused disaster film. To 
its credit, it avoids unnecessarily 
long exposition and doesn’t wait 
to build suspense. The action 
is also well-paced, giving the 
audience little breathing room 
once everything hits the fan. The 
latter half of the film is essentially 
one long scene experienced in 
real time. The camera works also 
tends to be quick, narrow and 
handheld, putting the audience 
on the oil rig right alongside the 
workers. This works especially well during the climax of the film, 
the explosion of the Deepwater 
Horizon oil rig, since the action 
almost feels to be happening from 
a first-person perspective.
Given that “Deepwater 
Horizon” did not attempt to 
go above and beyond what is 
expected of a conventional 
Hollywood disaster movie, its 
praise thus far has relatively little 
weight. The opening of the scene 
film is an unimaginative cliche 
of Mike Williams talking to his 
wife and daughter at a dinner 
table. After Mike sets off for his 
long shift aboard the Deepwater 
Horizon, the film follows 
predictable story beats until the 
last frame, building up suspense 
through generic jump scares, 
such as a bird hitting Mike’s 
helicopter window, and ominous 
underwater shots. The film also 
unnecessarily ties the oil disaster to nationalism, often featuring 
prominent shots of the burning 
oil rig behind the U.S. flag. There 
is certainly nothing wrong with 
this type of patriotic imagery, 
but is felt like a cheap substitute 
for emotion created through 
narrative and drama, which this 
film lacked.
While the action is filmed 
well and “Deepwater Horizon” 
explores the surface of corporate 
irresponsibility, the film simply 
does not have enough substance 
to make its blockbuster popcorn 
fare float in the ocean of endless 
Hollywood action copies. 
— Naft ali  burak ov sky
A&E Associate Editor
“The Dressmaker” 
stands to provide 
a great deal of 
amusement if you like pretty 
dresses and can enjoy playing a 
bit of make-believe without too 
much discomfiture. This film 
was not created for those with 
an aversion to sentiment. This 
effect is best exemplified by a 
dancing scene, wherein a frumpy 
village girl called Gertrude has 
gotten thoroughly worked over 
by the stylish heroine, Tilly (Kate 
Winslet), to impress the sole 
handsome, wealthy bachelor 
in her dusty Australian town. 
Gertrude storms into the little 
dance hall, completely uninhibited 
and bedecked in sparkling jewels. The band stops playing their doo-
wop (“The Dressmaker” is set in 
the 1950s), and the whole crowd 
halts and turns to Gertrude. 
Gertrude’s coveted man is nearly 
rendered speechless by her 
newfound comeliness, and with 
his proverbial jaw on the floor he 
asks her to dance and asks her to 
be his bride soon after. 
This sort of sequence induces 
wildly different feelings in 
different sorts of people and 
acts as a sort of litmus test to 
divide the tenderhearted from 
the fashionable. To be certain, 
“The Dressmaker” never 
recovers from the embarrassing 
sentimentality of this particular 
scene but it also never loses this glittery, gleeful foolishness either. 
Unfortunately for Moorhouse, 
audiences as of late seem to be 
growing particularly sensitive 
to that inward shudder of 
embarrassment that gets so 
in the way of joyful things, 
demanding twisty, gritty darkness 
even from their inherently 
campy and childish superhero 
characters. “The Dressmaker” 
certainly isn’t breaking any new 
ground; it bristles with cliche 
and predictability. This is not to 
say it is a bad film, evaluated on 
its own terms. It is a gorgeous 
movie with a fine love story at the 
center of it. It also manages to be 
about as much fun as any lurid 
romantic comedy while remaining elegantly restrained. Instead 
of tap dancing around its own 
silliness, the film knowingly tips 
its hat towards us with the same 
poised comportment possessed 
by its heroine, the still undeniably 
exquisite Kate Winslet. 
The tone of the movie 
stands in striking contrast to 
the premise, which involves the 
forgotten death of a little boy 
and several other equally tragic 
and macabre incidents. The 
plot here is somehow not too 
formidable for “The Dressmaker, ” 
and Moorhouse manages to tell 
a complicated story swiftly and 
with elan, but plot is still mostly 
beside the point. The point is 
Kate Winslet wearing crimson silk from head to manicured toe. 
The point of “The Dressmaker” 
is leather hat boxes and opera 
gloves. It isn’t exactly a celebration 
of superficiality, or a frivolous 
exercise in vain aesthetic 
indulgence. Moorhouse didn’t 
care much about winning awards 
or providing conversation fodder 
for hipsters on first dates — she 
just wanted to create something 
fabulous and beautiful. There 
is, after all, a difference between 
fashion and style.
— Susie  Da vidson
Staff Writer
PHOTO COURTESY OF ACESHOWBIZ
PHOTO COURTESY OF ACESHOWBIZFILM   REVIEW
FILM   REVIEWdeepw a ter  horizon
The  dressmakerA successful yet hardly memorable disaster showcase 
which plays like the third act of “Titanic, ” but instead 
of Jack and Rose, we get Mark Wahlberg.
Anyone likely to purchase a ticket for “ The 
Dressmaker” will enjoy themselves from the opening 
credits until the music stops.
Directed by   Peter Berg
Starring   Mark Wahlberg, Kurt Russell, Kate Hudson
Rated  PG-13
Release Date  Sept 30
Directed by   Jocelyn Moorhouse
Starring   Kate Winslet, Liam Hemsworth, Judy Davis
Rated  R
Release Date  Sept 23B-
B+
WEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 6, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
eataburrito.comDON CARLOS
 TACO SHOP
737 Pearl Street, La Jolla
AVAILABLE ON 
$5 off your
first order, use code eats - 4ilgd
FALL 2016
M: 9am-1pm
TuTh: 11am-3pm
W: 10am-2pm
F: 9am-2pmAT THE ORIGINAL STUDENT CENTERHOURS
SHOP TRITON OUTFITTERS
to.ucsd.edu22,  A  million
by  Bon  iver
Release Date Sept 30
A departure from Bon Iver’s previous sound but remarkable nonetheless.ALBUM  REVIEW
When “For Emma, Forever 
Ago” debuted, Justin 
Vernon was 26 years old, 
at the beginning of his professional 
career. It’s wholly unusual, then, that 
his first studio album with Bon Iver 
was so remarkably self-contained and 
well-developed. The sepulchral regrets 
in songs like “Flume” and “Hinnom” 
are evident in lines that echo the 
whisper of wind; “Fall in / fall out / 
fall along. ” His voice twisted through 
autotune and falsetto, Vernon sighs 
and mourns something lost. 
“10 d E A T h b R E a s T    ” is a 
madness. “Fe, fever rest / Fever rest / 
(Wild heart, wild heart) / I cut you in 
/ Deafening” is stacked upon choirs 
of deranged saxophones and wildly 
distorted brass, voices tumbling into 
a symphony of schizophrenic cries. 
There’s a cutting violence about “22, A 
Million, ” a self-destructive anger that 
rises and works through each verse. 
However, like a Greek tragedy, the 
experience is cathartic, akin to a dam 
coming undone. 
Where “Emma” was an elegy and 
“Bon Iver, Bon Iver” a road-trip into 
reverie, Vernon’s newest work is a 
descent into insanity. Look to the lines 
above — they echo a feverish liminal 
state of humanity, an alternate bizarro 
world briefly glimpsed in his lyric video for “33 ‘GOD, ’” which begins 
with deluded calm and falls into an 
anarchic display of symbology and 
synth. 
“22, A Million” is a disturbing 
electronically manipulated mass of 
bass, interspersed with heavy drums 
and Vernon’s signature falsetto 
cries. “For Emma, Forever Ago” 
was dedicated to Vernon’s ill-fated 
relationship, and “22, A Million” 
appears to consort with the shadow 
of collectivism. Indeed, it echoes a 
particular Biblical tale … “What is 
thy name? And he answered, saying, 
My name is Legion: for we are many. ” 
There are many voices here, layered 
over the instrumentation, and they 
often intersect, overlap or out-cry one 
another in a pandemonium of sound. 
And, curiously enough, even amidst 
the storm, Vernon is more often alone 
than not; he begs company with his 
soft singing, pleads for someone to 
share in him. 
It’s a damn fine album, and it’s 
Vernon’s most alienating work. “22, 
A Million” seems less a traditional 
musical endeavor and more an 
exercise in exorcism, wrestling with 
Vernon’s own devils. And its heavy 
production makes love to the band’s 
traditional roots, resulting in a bastard 
folk-electronica mixture. There are moments of balance, hiding bashfully 
among the sound and fury. When 
Vernon sings, “there isn’t ceiling in 
our garden, ” in “22 (OVER S ∞∞N), ” 
he seems, if not happy, then at least 
reconciled to his turmoil. 
Though the band has abandoned 
its stylistic constraints for a broader, 
genre-distilled approach, the lyrics 
underpinning each piece contain 
elements of the songwriter’s 
midwestern country origins. There 
are northern lights, consecration, 
broken-down towns and meditations 
upon God. And, occasionally, low 
threats of reprisal to an unnamed 
darling. For all its detachment, 
“22, A Million” returns obsessively 
to love and the hurt that so often 
accompanies the loss of that love.  
Vernon seems well aware of the 
cruelty of these thoughts — they’re 
contained in short fragments, 
permitted only harshness. He doesn’t 
allow his poison any sweet sound. 
In the end, the album is an ode to 
multiplicity. It’s good, and maybe it’ll 
last. In time, perhaps even Vernon’s 
season of lamentations and madness 
will pass.
—   Alicia  lepler
 Staff WriterA
PHOTO COURTESY OF PAOLO ABAD // RAPPLER10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 6, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDS
GENERAL
Article Writer & Editor Internship (Men’s 
Streetwear) - Gearbottle - As a writing/editing 
intern at GB, your primary responsibility will 
be writing/editing articles on a weekly basis. 
These articles will range from shorter blog-style 
posts about brand lookbooks or collections, to 
longer editorials and features. You will have the 
opportunity to interact with, and even interview 
industry related individuals such as brand own -
ers and designers. *In 2013, GearBottle expand -
ed to become the world’s premier streetwear 
media outlet. We draw from our network of 
contacts across the industry to provide consis -
tent updates on everything going on within 
the industry. We stand out from common style 
blogs by also creating original content, includ -
ing interview features with brand founders and 
shop owners from all over the world. This is an 
unpaid opportunity. However, you can partici -
pate for school credit. We have established rela -
tionships with several schools including FSU, 
USF, USC, and more. Most of our past interns 
have all participated and received credit from 
their respective schools. You will also be com -
pensated with plenty of hands on experience 
in writing for a digital publication, interviewing, 
social media management, and more. Listing ID: 
307207901 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
Spring 2017 Media & Marketing/Operations 
Internship - Northern Texas PGA - The Northern 
Texas PGA is seeking one (1) qualified appli -
cant for a 17-week internship position in media 
and tournament operations during the spring 
of 2017. Successful applicants will be primar -
ily responsible for assisting with the Section 
and Foundation’s marketing and media relation 
activities. When needed, successful applicants 
will also assist with tournament operations. 
Responsibilities: Videoing and photographing 
events to create highlight videos and other 
media promotions. Communicate with and 
interview juniors, parents and PGA golf profes -
sionals. Manage and promote the NTPGA and 
NTPGA Junior Tour via social media outlets, 
including Facebook, Twitter, Instagram &amp; 
YouTube. Assist with marketing, advertising 
&amp; campaign strategies to promote the 
NTPGA. Assist with the management of the 
NTPGA Website: http://www.ntpga.com. Assist 
with the management of the NTPGA Junior 
Golf Foundation Website:http://www.www.ntp -
gajuniorgolf.com. Compose media releases to 
recap tournaments and events. Compile infor -
mation to create effective email promotions 
for the NTPGA and NTPGA Junior Tour. Provide 
on-site tournament support as needed. Interns 
will be compensated approximately $1,200 per 
month (pretax); Three (3) PGA staff golf shirts; 
School credit (if applicable). The NTPGA does 
not provide housing of any kind. We will be 
more than happy to assist with the location of 
housing for those unfamiliar with the Dallas/
Fort Worth Metroplex. Past interns have uti -
lized corporate housing agencies for fully fur -
nished three-month apartment leases, secured 
three-month house leases through CraigsList, 
or utilized extended stay hotels. Listing ID: 
302808039 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
Social Justice Administration & Research 
Assistant Internship - Together We Stand - 
Together We Stand is an organization that advo -
cates for victims of racism, discrimination and 
police brutality nationwide. We are looking for 
an assistant to work with the president assisting 
with scheduling, follow up emails/calls on cases, 
grant writing, research, social media posting, and website posting. We need someone to work 
between 10-12 hours a week, but schedule 
can be very flexible. TWS is based in Richmond 
Ca, but intern can work remotely. Intern must 
be able to check in each morning briefly for 
any urgent work that needs to be addressed. 
You will be speaking with families, government 
officials, school officials etc. regarding current 
cases. Check emails, post pertinent info on 
social media accounts, research for cases, Grant 
writing, assist president with calendar/organiza -
tion. This is a non paid internship. Interns get 
written recommendations and extensive expe -
rience for the future. *Paid position possible at 
end of internship Listing ID: 301735362 at ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more information
VACATION
Pacific Beach - $4000. Minutes to the beach. 
Easy access to freeway and downtown. Sit down 
bay view from dining table. Watch fireworks 
from living room or off deck. Very private deluxe 
accommodations. Listing ID: 310319955 at ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more information
2 bedroom Sorrento Valley - $2850. Charming 
1st floor end south facing unit. Enjoy plenty of 
sunshine on a tranquil private lake, pool and 
jacuzzi. Koi filled streams and waterfalls mean -
der throughout the property grounds. Tennis 
courts, and Saunal on the property. 5 minutes 
on local street to Torrey Pines State Beach and 
Reserve. Very tastefully decorated with antiques 
and an Asian flare. Tiffany lamps, new King size 
bed in the Master, new refrigerator, Internet 
and phone service. Close to downtown Del Mar, 
shops, restaurants. 20 minutes from downtown 
San Diego and the Airport. Close to Carmel 
Valley Business District. Unlike any other com -
plex in the area. Listing ID: 310319940 at ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more information
3 bedroom Pacific Beach - $3950. The Beach 
House on Venice Court is a fully furnished 3 
bedroom/2 bathroom house in an amazing 
location! Just steps from the ocean and walk -
ing distance to Pacific Beach stores and res -
taurants. Looking for medium to longer term 
rentals $3950/month. Also open to shorter term 
rentals if space is available. Newly renovated 
with fully equipped kitchen including fridge/
freezer, dishwasher, microwave, oven, coffee 
maker, toaster oven, blender, silverware, plates, 
glasses, and cookware. Unit also has washer/
dryer, Big Screen HD TV on main, and TVs in all 
bedrooms. Parking for 2 vehicles and private 
patio with BBQ and furniture. No smoking. Small 
pets will be considered. Close to USD, UCSD, 
Pacific Beach, La Jolla, Pt Loma, downtown 
(Gaslamp, Little Italy, East Village). Great central 
location and easily accessible given its proximity 
to freeways. Listing ID: 309519712 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
GARAGE SALE
Saturday & Sunday Sale: Vintage Lp’s, Audio, 
Clothes, Toys and More! SATURDAY & SUNDAY 
SALE: VINTAGE LP’S, AUDIO, CLOTHES, TOYS 
AND MORE! WE ARE SELLING ALL WEEKEND 
DURING THE DAY... PERFECT FOR PEOPLE WHO 
ARE AVAILABLE DURING THE MORNING HOURS 
AND FOR THOSE WHO WANT TO STOP BY AFTER 
WORK, THIS SALE WILL GO FROM ten A.M. UNTIL 
DARK ALL WEEKEND, SO GET HERE EARLY AND 
GET IT WHILE YOU CAN! THIS IS NOT A WALK 
UP TYPE OF SALE, IT’S A “BY APPOINTMENT” 
TYPE OF SALE, SO TEXT 1st, THEN CALL FOR THE ADDRESS, NO EMAILS PLEASE! THANK YOU! WE 
HAVE BOXES AND BOXES OF UNTOUCHED AND 
YET UNSEEN, VINTAGE AND MODERN CLOTHES, 
TOYS, EYEGLASSES AND SUNGLASSES, AND IN 
OUR HOME, WE HAVE VINTAGE AND MODERN 
AUDIO EQUIPMENT AND ELECTRONICS. BY THE 
END OF SUMMER, WE WANT TO CLEAR OUT 
OUR GARAGE ENOUGH TO PARK OUR CARS 
INSIDE, CAN YOU HELP US? INCREDIBLE DEALS 
FOR BULK BUYS! COME AND GET IT! WE HAVE 
VINTAGE RECORD ALBUMS, VINTAGE AUDIO, 
VINTAGE AND NEW, SUMMER, FALL AND WINTER 
WEAR AND SPORTS CLOTHING, VINTAGE AND 
NEW SUNGLASSES, VINTAGE AND NEW TOYS, 
AND MORE! Listing ID: 308816629 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
2 Large Containers Have to Move! Big Sale! 
(Chula Vista) - We have two large containers with 
many items from a bed set, home furniture, full 
dish sets, Christmas decorations, office supplies 
ect. some items new some items used but like 
new..MUST SEE! we are inside the parking lot 
of what was the Butcher Shop/ Steak House 
in Chula Vista. you will see a gate with GREEN 
cover. PARK OUTSIDE. WE START AT 12pm TILL 
4:30pm TEXT AND CHECK IF WE R STILL HERE. 
:) RUNS THROUGH SATURDAY! CASH ONLY $ 
Listing ID: 308816628 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information.
Garage Sale Stuff - 6 new sets of bamboo 
cutting boards, 12” X eighteen “ and eight x 
10 (COSTCO is currently selling a smaller set 
of bamboo cutting boards for 14.99), Selling 
these for just $7.00 a set. CHICCO baby stroller 
in attractive condition, Cost 199.00, selling for 
20.00, Missing seat pad, LOTS of nick nacks, new 
four x 8 piece of 1/2” drywall cut in half $5.00, 
LOTS OF POTTED PLANTS. AT &T NEW white 710 
office phone, $10.00, Sports Illustrated baseball 
and football book, two racket ball rackets in 
like-new condition and three ball for $5.00, if 
you wanna come by and take a look. Used , 
working white clean WORKING toilet with seat, 
$20.00, Bread machine, got as gift and only 
used a couple times, complete with instructions 
and recipe book, $10.00, a dozen beginning 
childrens picture reading books, show contact 
details 2’ X 3.5’ thick piece of beveled glass, no 
scratches, chips or cracks, I will open the garage 
on the street if you call and want to come by and 
take a look. PLEASE do not text or e mail Listing 
ID: 306503351 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
t
your vision,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel to 
promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies 
on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.ukLevel: 1234
SUDOKU
CLASSIFIEDSGuardian Classifieds are FREE for the UC San Diego community.
 www.ucsdguardian.org/classifieds
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972If found please report to Hawkins Police Dept., 48 Pray St., Hawkins, IN
Or report to Haunted Hoedown
Friday, 10/7 • 9pm • Student Center1-858-333-9612MISSING
Age 12, 4’ 9”, brown hair, brown eyes,
last seen wearing plaid shirt and red vest 
WILL
BYERSSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 6, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
On Tuesday, the UCSD men’s 
golf team finished 12th out of 16 
teams at the InterWest Insurance 
Wildcat Classic hosted by Chico 
State at Butte Creek Country Club. 
The Tritons ended the 54 holes with 
a total score of 904 which was good 
for 40-over-par. They shot a 300 
in the final round on Tuesday in 
addition to totals of 298 and 306 on 
the first day. UCSD was fifth after 
18 holes and 11th after two rounds 
of play. 
“The team bounced back and 
played better today, ” UCSD head 
coach Jim Ragan told UCSD 
Athletics on Tuesday. “We have 
some work to do in order to achieve 
the consistency we need for success. ” 
Sophomore Jake Haselden was 
the leading scorer for UCSD as he 
tied for 36th with an 8-over-224 on 
the par-72 course. He finished the 
tournament with scores of 73–79–
72. Haselden’s last round was the 
lowest by any Triton over the two-
day tournament.
Other notable UCSD players 
were junior Mateusz Kucz (75–75–
75–225, T-42nd), freshman Adam Navigato (74–76–77–227, T-51st), 
freshman Hayden Hui (80–76–78–
234, T-74th) and freshman Jacob 
Johnson (76–85–76–237, T-80th). 
Senior Drew Robbins, in his first 
tournament of the season, played as 
an individual and did not count for 
team scoring, finishing tied for 31st 
with a total of 223 (73–75–75).
In a tiebreaker, tournament host 
Chico State won the team title over 
Western Washington. Both teams 
ended with a score of 13-over-par 
total of 877, but the Wildcats had 
a lower score when the throwaway 
totals were added. Twelfth-ranked 
California Baptist finished third 
with an 879, 15-over-par score. 
The individual medalist was 
freshman Nic Beno from the 
Colorado School of Mines. He was 
the leader of the 91-player field with 
a 2-under-par 214. Beno’s scores 
were 71–71–72. 
Freshman Andrew Fernandes 
from Cal State Dominguez Hills and 
sophomore Kyle McLay from Holy 
Names were just one stroke behind 
Beno and tied for second place.
UCSD ends its fall schedule Oct. 
17–18 at the Otter Fall Invitational 
hosted by Cal State Monterey Bay at 
Bayonet in Seaside.UCSD Underperforms 
With 12th Place Finish
Sophomore Jake Haselden is the leading scorer for the 
Tritons and finished 36th overall at the invitational. MEN'S GOLF
BY  D e v  J a i n
Sports editor
Dev Jain     dajain@ucsd,edu
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICS
Readers can contactSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
DEV JAIN
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 6, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG * ALL DAY EVENT   
No. 8 UCSD continues 
to steamroll California 
Collegiate Athletic 
Association opponents, moving to 4–0 
in conference after a 4–0 thrashing 
of Humboldt State on Sunday. The 
Tritons are now in a three-way tie 
for second in the CCAA, a 
mere three points behind 
Sonoma State, which 
they defeated on Friday 
night. The Tritons 
are on a roll, bagging 
a fifth straight victory 
and moving to 8–2 
on the season while 
establishing themselves 
as legitimate, national 
contenders.
“Y ou want to win 
all games even if you 
always go one game at 
a time, ” UCSD head 
coach Brian McManus 
told UCSD Athletics. 
“Y our ultimate goal is 
to continue to win and 
hopefully to be in the 
Regionals. ”
The Tritons got two goals from 
redshirt senior forward Kiera 
Bocchino, one by senior midfielder 
Jamie Benedetto and a fourth by 
junior forward Katie O’Laughlin, 
all goals coming in the second half. 
UCSD’s early-season success is a 
local one, with many of the Tritons’ 
contributors coming from the greater 
San Diego area. O’Laughlin comes 
from Carlsbad, junior midfielder 
Jordyn McNutt, who assisted on the final three goals, hails from San Diego, 
while sophomore forward Mary Reilly, 
second in the CCAA in assists behind 
McNutt, comes from Chula Vista. 
“[Bocchino] has always been 
capable of scoring goals, ” McManus 
said. “ And [today] she started popping 
up in the right positions. [O’Laughlin] 
always will get her goals, she popped 
up in the right place, right time and 
finished nice and calm. ”
After Sunday’s game, the Tritons 
have some of the best performers 
in the league. O’Laughlin now leads 
the league and the West Region with 
nine goals in 2016. McNutt leads 
the CCAA with eight assists, the 
third consecutive season she tops 
the leaderboard. Reilly is second on                 
that list. 
After an even first half, UCSD did 
not wait long to take the lead. Just 14 
seconds into the second half, redshirt 
senior defender Meghan Berry got the 
ball at the kickoff and sent it deep to 
Bocchino on the left side. Bocchino 
send a low cross into the surface, with 
Benedetto sending the cross in from 
the far post. 
“First goal is always nice, ” 
Benedetto told UCSD Athletics. “It’s 
nice to finally get one. I’ve been here 
for four years and it’s the same play 
we’ve done for four years off of the 
kickoff. It’s nice to finally score 
off of this. ”
Just a mere five minutes after, 
the Tritons doubled the score through 
a goal from Bocchino. McNutt pushed 
the ball on the right side of the field 
and found Bocchino alone in the six-
yard box. Bocchino placed her shot 
perfectly to the bottom left corner, 
beating the Lumberjacks’ goalkeeper.
In a matter of five minutes, UCSD 
put up two more goals on the board. 
On the third goal, McNutt again 
found Bocchino. This time, McNutt’s 
cross found Bocchino outside the box, 
and she curled her right-footed shot 
into the upper right corner. 
UCSD put the nail in the coffin at 
the 57th minute as O’Laughlin scored 
her first goal of the game on McNutt’s third assist. Again working on the 
right side, McNutt threw the ball to 
Reilly, who crossed to O’Laughlin. 
O’Laughlin’s finish was surgical, on 
the ground to the near post. 
“I have been so impressed with 
the goal scoring, ” Benedetto said. “We 
always score goals, no matter what. ” 
Although the first half concluded 
on a 0–0, there were opportunities 
for both sides. On a one-on-one off 
a breakaway counterattack, redshirt 
senior goalkeeper Itzel Gonzalez 
denied Humboldt State’s freshman 
midfielder Alex Jenkins. Another 
big opportunity came at the 37th 
minute for the Lumberjacks, when 
a shot hit the crossbar and bounced 
into the feet of HSU’s sophomore 
forward Jacquelyn Dompier. Again, 
Gonzalez made a decisive save and 
denied the Lumberjacks their first 
goal. At the 38th minute, UCSD 
provoked a penalty off a handball 
from HSU. UCSD missed the penalty 
and went into halftime tied with the 
Lumberjacks.
“ At halftime, we talked about what 
we needed to do, ” Benedetto said. 
“We all knew it was possible. We 
always struggle to score early [against 
Humboldt]. I don’t know what it is, 
but we finally scored in the second 
half and solved the problem. ”
Gonzalez finished the game with 
three saves and a sixth individual 
shutout, the second shutout in a row 
for the Tritons. 
UCSD outshot HSU 22–6; this 
game marked the fourth time this 
season the Tritons reached 20 shots. 
The Tritons go back on the road 
next week, playing at San Francisco 
State on Friday, Oct. 7, and at Cal State 
Monterey Bay on Sunday, Oct. 9.
“I think we’re capable of more 
than we even know, but I think 
we’re all looking for that national 
championship, ” Benedetto said.UCSD looks like a national title contender as they notch a ﬁfth straight win with a dominating 4-0 victory and move to 4-0 in conference play. 
by Marcus Thuillier // Managing EditorWOMENS’S SOCCER
marcus thuillier   mthuilli@ucsd.edu  Readers can contactTritons Crush Humboldt State
Men’s Soccer
Overall Record: 7-1-2 Overall Record: 8-2 Overall Record: 7-4 Overall Record: 8-5
Undefeated at Home 2nd in CCAA 
StandingsUndefeated in 
ConferenceFirst in South 
DivisionCCAA Record: 4-0 WWPA Record: 3-0 CCAA Record: 5-0 CCAA Record: 2-1-1Women’s Soccer Men’s Water Polo Women’s VolleyballPHOTO BY GEOFF PALOMINO/UCSD GUARDIAN
UPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM. Tennis
W.Volleyball
Cross Country
M.Water Polo
M. Soccer 10/7
10/7
10/8
10/12
10/14 AD*
7 PM
8 AM
6 PM
7 PMAT Aztec Fall Invitational
VS SF State
VS Triton Classic 
VS Long Beach State
VS Cal State Los Angeles