Incidents of property crime, violent 
crime and aggravated assault in the 
City of San Diego have increased over 
the last year, according to a national 
mid-year crime report  released by the 
FBI last Tuesday. 
The FBI Preliminary Semiannual 
Uniform Crime Report compares 
incidents of various crimes reported 
from a six-month period from over 
12,000 local, state and national law 
agencies. This report shows that the 
City of San Diego has had an increase 
in property crime, violent crime and 
aggravated assault. 
Director of Applied Research 
at the San Diego Association of 
Governments Cynthia Burke stressed 
to the UCSD Guardian that it is 
unclear whether the data indicates 
that crime has gotten worse.
“Statistically significant refers to changes in samples, and this is 
population data, ” Burke said. “Standard 
significance tests aren’t what is used. ”
SANDAG released two reports in 
2015, one in April and another in 
September, that analyze crime rates in 
San Diego. The reports showed that 
the violent crime rate in 2014 was 
the lowest it had been in 35 years and 
the violent crime rate increased by 
9.8 percent from 2014 to 2015. Burke 
argues that despite the increase in the 
past year, the mid-year rates in 2015 
are relatively low when considering the 
past 35 years.
Travis Easter, Media Relations 
Coordinator at the San Diego 
Police Department, talked about the 
importance of understanding the 
nature of this research.
“Statistics fluctuate from year to 
year without a specific trend, ” Easter 
told the Guardian. “That’s just the 
nature of statistics; sometimes they 
could rise and some years there may be a lull and each year can be different. ”
In addition, the FBI report also 
shows a drastic increase in the 
incidents of rape, but Burke attributes 
that to the change in the legal 
definition of rape. The Department 
of Justice broadened the definition 
of rape in 2014 by requiring consent 
rather than willingness.
Easter also discussed ways for 
students and residents of the city 
to keep safe and suggested that 
individuals should start by always 
locking their house doors, windows 
and cars. He also recommended going 
out in pairs or groups when out at 
night or when going to an unfamiliar 
area. He emphasized, however, always 
remaining vigilant and reporting 
incidences of crime.
“If you see something, say 
something; call the police, ” 
Easter said. “Take as many safety 
precautions as possible. ”VOLUME 49, ISSUE 27   MONDA Y , JANUAR Y 25, 2016  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
SPIRIT FOR 
SPIRIT’S SAKE?
ONE NIGHT OF THE YEAR UCSD 
COMES TOGETHER FOR A 
COMPETITION OF YELLOW AND 
BLUE FRENZY. THE GUARDIAN 
RAN A SURVEY ABOUT 
OVERALL SCHOOL SPIRIT. FIND 
OUT OUR RESULTS INSIDE.
OFFENSIVE PROTEST
TRITONS TRIUMPHCRITIQUE OF POSTERS
M. BASKETBALL BLOW OUT TOROSOPINION,  P age   4
SPORTS,  P age  12
MONDAY  
H 64 L 46TUESDAY  
H 68 L 47
WEDNESDAY
H 69 L 46THURSDAY  
H 69 L 47
FORECAST
VERBATIM
LIBRARY WALK CAN BE A 
DANGEROUS PLACE. FROM THE 
NEVER-ENDING TORNADO OF 
INDIVIDUAL QUARTER-PAGE 
SIZED FLYERS PUMMELLING 
STUDENTS TO LAST WEEK’S 
EVIDENT DEMONSTRATION ON 
THE EXTENT OF FREE SPEECH, 
BRAVING THE CAMPUS...”
NAVIGATE CAMPUS
HOW-TO GURU
OPINION , PAGE 4
INSIDE
CLEVERPET HUB  ............. 2
STAR WARS QUICKTAKES  4
BRAIN GAMES  ................. 7
CLASSIFIEDS  .................. 9
W. BASKETBALL  ............ 12“FEA TURES,  P AGE  6
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE/UCSD GUARDIANUC Regents 
Vote for 
New Student 
PositionUC SYSTEM
The regents unanimously 
approved the two-year 
program for an advisory,  
non-voting seat on the board.
BY   J o s h  L e f l e r
Senior Staff Writer
A non-voting student adviser 
will join the ranks of the University 
of California’s Board of Regents 
for a two-year trial period after a 
unanimous vote of approval by the 
board on Thursday, Jan. 21.
The new position is part of larger 
effort to increase the voice of UC 
students within the administration 
and aims “to give regents a more 
comprehensive student perspective on 
university issues, ” according to the UC 
Regents website.
UC President, and member of the 
Board of Regents, Janet Napolitano 
was supportive of the deal and 
stressed that the student regent is not 
the only student voice that the board 
interacts with.
“We have student observers on the 
committee, every meeting we hear 
from the leadership of the University 
of California Student Association, 
[and] I personally have a number 
of meetings with different student 
groups over the course of the year, ” 
Napolitano said during the meeting. 
“I think it’s very important to have an 
active listening environment where 
we’re...getting some ground truth on 
things that are important to students 
at the University of California. ” 
The student adviser will serve for 
a one-year term, sit in on the board’s 
open sessions and serve on three of 
the board’s committees. However, 
the student adviser will not have the 
authority to vote.
UC student regent and creator of 
the student adviser proposal Avi Oved 
explained that he had been working 
on the student adviser proposal since 
his appointment to the board.
“Some individuals thought that 
when I stepped into the position, 
I’ve been pushing for student 
representation too hard, ” Oved told 
the Board. “But I think it’s safe to 
say that there are 250,000 students 
who don’t think I’ve been pushing 
hard enough. ”
Currently, the board allows one 
student regent to serve for a two-year 
term, and does not grant them voting 
power until their second year. Upon 
completion of the student regent’s first 
year, a new “designate” student regent 
is elected who then prepares to assume 
the voting position upon completion 
of their first term.
UCSD Associated Students Vice 
President of External Affairs Krystl 
Fabella endorsed the proposal during 
Thursday’s meeting and explained 
to the UCSD Guardian that a major 
concern of the student regents is 
that the needs of both graduate and 
undergraduate students cannot be met 
by a student regent with only one year 
of voting power. Students Celebrate Triton 
Pride at Annual Spirit Night
Students at UCSD gathered in RIMAC Arena this past 
Friday to support the women’s and men’s basketball games 
against Cal State Dominguez Hills and to celebrate UCSD’s 
annual Spirit Night. The men’s team saw a record-high 
attendance at its game, and Eleanor Roosevelt College was 
awarded the Cup of Cheer for the first time since 2013. 
On the Spirit Night Scoreboard, Roosevelt’s winning 
of the Cup of Cheer was a clear takeaway with a score of 
28 points, Sixth College following with 23 points. As in 
recent years, the score was based off of five criteria: college 
decorating throughout the week, college banner, Triton 
Sidekick, halftime contest and Spirit Night attendance. 
Roosevelt led the categories of college decorating and 
attendance and tied with Revelle College for college banners.
Sophomore ERC Student Council Member Alison Wong 
told the UCSD Guardian that planning for Spirit Night is a 
demanding yet rewarding experience and one of the few 
distinct times UCSD students show their school spirit. 
“We were determined to blow people’s minds with our 
hard work, creativity and teamwork, ” Wong said. “Within 
the past three-day weekend, we put over 25 hours into decorating Cafe Ventanas, the [ERC] banner, and our 
sidekick with an added bonus of a fun tailgate. Student spirit 
on campus is usually very quiet, but during Spirit Week it is 
definitely amped up, especially during the game it is very 
apparent that UCSD students have spirit in their hearts and 
come together as one because we are very competitive. ” 
Events like Spirit Night require the leadership of 
motivated and committed college student councils, 
according to Wong. She believes support can manifest 
itself in multiple ways beyond sports, including classes and 
student organizations. 
“I think that student attendance is lower in some years 
than others depending on each college student council that 
helps spearhead the intensity and dedication that goes into 
Spirit Week, ” Wong told the Guardian. “Most people would 
regard the college council as a group of student leaders, and 
if you don’t have a strong council, then encouragement for 
student spirit and attendance to games will be lacking. What 
we can do is try to support our team sports by being a team of 
students in every aspect — academics, athletics and campus 
involvement. We can also elect great candidates for student B Y  JULIE YIP    News Editorial AssistantAROUND CAMPUS
FBI Reports Increase in Regional Crime Rates
According to the agency, both San Diego property crime and violent crime increased.See SPIRIT , page 3
SAN DIEGO
BY   R A A H I M A  S H O A I B
Staff WriterPHOTO BY MEGAN LEE /UCSD GUARDIAN
See REGENTS , page 3 RAAHIMA SHOAIB   rshoaib@ucsd.edureaders can contact2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 25, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
THINGS TO CONSIDER By Sage Schubert Christian
CalCopyUCSD@gmai l.comLowest
Prices POSTER PRINTINGPRINT/ COPY FILES
'' FedExFastest
ServiceReaders printed in 1 day.Cal Copy UCSD Course Readers
SAME DAY COLOR POSTER PRINTING!
REGISTER ONLINE AT AS.UCSD.EDU/SAFERIDESREGISTRATION
FOR this quarter
IS NOW OPEN!
A.S. Safe Rides allows 
registered undergraduate 
students to get 3 FREE rides 
per quarter. 
Students must register at 
least 24 hours prior to their 
first ride. 
Contact A.s. safe rides: (619) 564 - 7998
MORE INFO AT SOVAC.UCSD.EDU/REGISTERThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. They called me “Shots.” Not because I drank a 
lot, because it was the first song I danced too. — Scooter
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Marketing Co-Directors
Peter McInnis, Haley Asturias
Training and Development Manager
Cedric Hyon
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Vincent Pham
Tina Butoiu
Kriti Sarin
Jacky To
Cassia Pollock 
Marcus Thuillier
Allison Kubo
Karly Nisson
Brittney Lu
Olga Golubkova
Jonathan Gao
Megan Lee
Joselynn Ordaz
Sherman Aline
Christina Carlson
Sophia Huang
Jennifer Grundman
Sage Schubert ChristianEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
News Editor
 
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editors
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Sherman Aline, Allison Kubo
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim, Alicia Ho, Lisa Chik
Editorial Assistants
Christian Duarte, Dev Jain, Julie Yip,  
Naftali Burakovsky, Sam Velazquez
UCSD alumni Leo Trottier and 
Dan Knudsen won first place in a 
startup competition at the Consumer 
Electronics Show for their invention 
The CleverPet Hub, the first game 
console designed for dogs. 
The Consumer Electronics Show 
is an annual technology tradeshow 
that takes place in early January at 
the Las Vegas Convention Center. 
It provides both large and small 
companies with the opportunity to 
preview and announce new products. 
Trottier and Knudsen founded 
their startup company, CleverPet, 
in 2013 and based it in San Diego. 
The company originally raised over 
$180,000 as part of a Kickstarter 
campaign to develop The CleverPet 
Hub, the device that earned the 
startup a top prize at the 2016 CES.  
Combining their backgrounds 
in cognitive science and animal 
behavior, Trottier and Knudsen 
created a game console that simultaneously entertains and 
teaches dogs. However, even though 
CleverPet initially created the device 
with dogs in mind, Trottier clarified 
that cats can enjoy the benefits of the 
device as well.
The CleverPet co-founder, 
who received a master’s degree in 
cognitive science at UCSD, and is 
now a Ph.D. candidate, explained 
to the UCSD Guardian that with 
the addition of a simple electronic 
device, families could provide all-
day interaction for their pets. 
“I noticed that most homes were 
one hardware product away from 
being able to provide rich, all-day 
interaction to the furry friends 
that lived with them, ” Trottier said. 
“[With The CleverPet Hub], people 
can feel better about their dogs 
needing to be alone during the 
day, knowing that their dogs have 
something to do. ”
Trottier added that the idea for 
the game console quickly developed 
once the technological components 
of it could be synched. “It began with radios and 
sound systems, then televisions, 
then computers, then internet 
connections and lastly, systems that 
connected all these pieces together, ” 
Trottier said. “ All that’s needed is 
the ability to provide a food reward 
at precisely the right time in order 
to transform homes into interactive 
and educational pet playgrounds. ”
The CleverPet Hub is not 
designed solely for pets’ amusement, 
it also offers conditioning that trains 
them how to interact with the device.
“The Hub teaches dogs first to eat 
from it, then to touch it, then to pay 
attention to the lights and sounds it 
produces, ” Trottier said. “Teaching 
your dog to eat from it is easy: it 
just uses the tray to present food. 
Teaching your dog to touch it takes 
more time: we wait for the dog to 
connect with the touch pad, and then 
respond when he does. Teaching 
your dog to pay attention to the lights 
takes even more time: we provide 
rewards when your dog touches the 
touch pads that are lit up. ”Monitoring your dog’s progress 
on the CleverPet Hub, Trottier adds, 
can be achieved anywhere and only 
requires a Wi-Fi connection.  
“It has a connection to the 
Internet, so we keep track of how 
well each dog is doing over time, ” 
Trottier said. “When a dog is doing 
really well, the difficulty level gets 
higher. When a dog is doing poorly, 
it gets easier. ”
Trottier credited his experiences 
at UCSD in the field of cognitive 
science for the success of The 
CleverPet Hub.
“UCSD’s collaborative and 
irreverent spirit is at CleverPet’s 
core, ” Trottier said. “The cognitive 
science program there enables 
students to have deep insight into 
the nature of minds, computation 
and behavior. These insights have 
been instrumental in the fairly 
involved process of designing a 
connected food-handling hardware 
product for dogs and humans. ”SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
UCSD Alumni Design First Gaming Console for Canines
Called the CleverPet Hub, the device acts both as a interactive entertainment and obedience training for household pets.
BY   K A R L Y  N I S S O N
STAFF WRITER
KARL Y NISSON   knisson@ucsd.edu UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGsee more atNEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 25, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
Deadline to apply: Feb 28
TO LEARN MORE ATTEND THE OPEN forum:
Jan 28 • 12pm-1pm • Forum, PC EAST, 4th Floor 
Contact s6mathew@ucsd.edu for additional inquiriesBecome the next
UC STUDENT
REGENTLIGHTS & SIRENSLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edu.
council to ensure active participation 
throughout UCSD’s events. ”
Revelle College fared the poorest 
at Spirit Night with 17 points, just 
behind Marshall College with 17.5 
points and W arren College with 18 
points. Though W arren took first place 
in the Triton Sidekick category and 
tied with Marshall for the halftime 
challenge of basketball musical chairs, 
the college had the lowest attendance, 
representing the least amount of 
UCSD students. 
According to sophomore and 
Leader of Commission of Warren 
College Spirit Farhan Hussain, the low 
attendance by W arren students at Spirit 
Night was part of what he considers 
the spontaneous school spirit at UCSD. 
“I feel like the school spirit 
naturally ebbs and flows, and that corresponds to this year’s Spirit Night 
attendance, ” Hussain said to the 
Guardian. “My goal is to consistently 
provide Warren students, including 
myself, with fun experiences so that 
more people will want to come out 
and show Warren pride!” 
The men’s team defeated 
Dominguez Hills 74–51 before 
its largest audience in history of 
3,924 fans as UCSD has not had a 
comparable number of attendees since 
2008 with 3,906 fans. However, the 
women’s basketball team lost 82–89 
to Dominguez Hills with 1,674 fans 
supporting. Friday’s games placed 
the men’s team at a tie with Chico 
State for first place in the California 
Collegiate Athletic Association at 9–2 
and 14–3 overall and the women’s 
team is tied in second with Cal State 
East Bay and Stanislaus State also at 
9–2 and 14–3 overall. In regard to UCSD sports, A.S. 
President Dominick Suvonnasupa 
recently announced that A.S. Council 
will move to vote the university into 
Division I of the NCAA, and students 
like Wong believe a vote in favor of 
the change may help bolster athletics 
which she believes are undervalued.
“I definitely believe that moving 
to Division I sports will help facilitate 
greater attendance during games 
and events such as Spirit Night, ” 
Wong said. “I think that sports are 
underrepresented here at UCSD so 
students do not necessarily have pride 
in their school sports teams. We all 
care about our school, but we need 
something to happen for us to bring 
out our inner pride. I think something 
great could happen if we earn a spot in 
Division I sports. ”Tuesday, Jan. 19
8:57 a.m. Disturbance.
Female feeding crows and seagulls, 
has been advised to stop by Fish & 
Wildlife as well as the chancellor.  
Gone on arrival.
9:38 a.m. Drunk Driving.
Report of possible drunk driver, 
discovered to be non-alcohol 
involved, non-injury collision 
between vehicle and MTS bus. 
Service provided.
Wednesday, Jan. 20
7:54 a.m. Grand Theft Arrest.
Subject wanted for grand theft on 
San Diego Police case . Closed by 
adult arrest.
9:27 a.m. Information.
Possible vehicle vandalism, back 
windows bashed out and spray 
paint all over. Checks OK.
11:12 a.m. Citizen Contact.
Reporting party is receiving text 
messages stating RP is being 
followed. Checks OK.
11:57 a.m. Gas/Water/Sewer Leak. 
Unknown chemical coming up 
through sink. Referred to other 
UCSD police department.
1:00 p.m. Vandalism. 
Unknown suspect(s) vandalized a 
vinyl anti‐abortion sign, damage 
$50.00. Report taken.
5:11 p.m. Citizen Contact.
Caller believes her sunglasses are inside locked classroom. 
Information only.
10:00 p.m. Assist Other Agency.
San Diego Police requesting 
assistance with report of victim 
being threatened with weapon by 
his roommate. Service provided. 
Thursday, Jan. 21
4:26 a.m. Assist Other Agency.
San Diego Police Officer’s requested 
assistance with UCSD male student 
who appeared in need of medical 
aid, but spit on officers when they 
attempted to contact him.  Referred 
to Student Conduct.
5:11 a.m. Noise Disturbance.
Group of males laughing loudly. 
Quiet on arrival.
1:13 p.m. Citizen Contact.
Unknown subject defecating 
outside reporting party’s building. 
Service provided. 
9:00 p.m. Welfare Check.
Mother has court order to Skype 
with juvenile child, but unable to 
get ahold of child or father. Checks 
OK.
10:47 p.m. Vandalism.
Report of student throwing shaving 
cream and eggshells inside second-
floor bathrooms. Checks OK.
— KARLY NISSON
Staff WriterMen’s Basketball Game Has Largest Student Turnout Since 2008
“It is almost impossible to expect 
the student regent to effectively 
advocate for both [graduates and 
undergraduates] because it takes the 
whole year’s dedication, ” Fabella said. 
“The creation of the student regent 
adviser prevents the compromising of 
one over the other. ”
To alleviate this concern, Oved 
proposed that the student adviser and 
student regent originate from different 
school levels within the UC system.
“The student adviser will hail 
from a complementary educational 
program to that of the sitting student 
regent, ” Oved explained. “For 
example, if the sitting student regent 
is an undergraduate student, then the 
student adviser would come from 
a professional or graduate student 
program, and vice-versa. ”Fabella believes that this condition 
will allow both the student adviser and 
student regent to address concerns 
from their respective areas, while 
decreasing the workload for both.
“One student can focus on 
undergraduate needs while the other 
graduate needs, as these needs differ 
and require separate representation, ” 
Fabella said.
According to Fabella, the student 
adviser will also serve as a student 
voice that will provide the board with 
further insight into student concerns 
when making major decisions.
“ Although [the student adviser] 
does not have voting powers like 
the student regent, [the position’s] 
addition to the board allows for a 
more holistic representation of student 
needs, ” Fabella said. “[It] will help 
contextualize conversations, and help 
ensure well-informed decisions. ”Oved praised the proposal in a 
similar fashion during his appeal.
“I think that this is an excellent 
opportunity [for the UC Board of 
Regents] to meaningfully engage with 
students and really bring them into the 
conversation, ” Oved said.
Napolitano noted that the deal 
could create a dialogue between the 
administration and campuses.
“It’s not just about us hearing 
from different populations of 
students, ” Napolitano said during 
the appeal. “Student regents can 
be very effective communicators 
about what’s really happening at 
regents meetings...it’s very easy to 
stereotype what occurs [here]. ”
The student adviser will begin their 
one-year term starting July 1, 2017.First Student Adviser Will Begin Their One-Year Term July 2017▶ SPIRIT,  from page 1
▶ REGENTS,  from page 1JULIE YIP   jlyip@ucsd.edureaders can contact
JOSH LEFLER   jlefler@ucsd.edureaders can contact
Follow us on Twitter 
@UCSDGUARDIAN4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 25, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CASSIA POLLOCK
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
See PROTEST, page 5Students protested last week’s large, barricaded pro-life display 
on Library Walk, which elicited a discussion regarding 
administrative responsibility and free speech.BY CASSIA POLOCK // OPINION EDITOR
MARCUS THUILLIER // SENIOR STAFF WRITER
ILLUSTRA TION   B Y  ALEX LIANG
The UCSD student population was subjected to huge 
posters of dismembered fetuses this past week when the 
Bio-Ethical Reform’s anti-abortion display invaded Library 
Walk. The displeasing spectacle was enough to make UCSD 
students react and stage a counter-protest, organized by the 
panhellenic sorority Kappa Kappa Gamma, the Associated 
Students Women’s Commission and the UCSD Women’s 
Center. It is irritating that a group using such dramatic and 
repulsive shock tactics could expect to achieve any sort of 
change or positive e ffect on society.
Now the problem is not merely the message itself, 
although it goes against the grain of most liberal college 
students’ opinions. The issue is how this message is 
conveyed. It should be possible to have a constructive 
discussion and debate on abortion rights. Students are 
fully capable of having a conversation about their personal 
preferences and beliefs on reproductive rights without 
pulling out pitchforks and mobbing Library Walk. This 
is a realistic, achievable goal for college campuses in the 
21st century. But putting up 15-foot billboards bearing the 
blood and guts of fetuses is not thought-provoking. It is 
only fear-mongering. Allowing these groups of people to freely perform these demonstrations sends the message that 
shaming women for trying to make the best choice possible 
regarding their situations is acceptable. 
People can invoke all the amendments they want and 
shout from every roo ftop that they are expressing their 
freedom of speech. That does not make this behavior 
acceptable. The First Amendment protects almost every form 
of self-expression, which apparently also includes graphic 
posters with misleading comparisons between abortion 
and the genocide of the Holocaust. According to the Pew 
Research Center, 67 percent of Americans support being 
able to publicly say things which are o ffensive to minority 
groups, which is higher than anywhere else in the world. The 
same study showed that 52 percent of Americans believe that 
sexually explicit statements should not be censored. Clearly, 
we have no qualms about o ffending people.
It is, in fact, legal for these groups to display graphic 
posters and o ffend minority groups. But it is damaging to 
the overall community and campus climate at UCSD. We as 
Americans have a right to express ourselves in almost every 
possible way, and this is a great responsibility that should 
not be taken lightly. How-To 
Guru: 
Navigate
Campus
Library Walk can be a dangerous 
place. From the never-ending 
tornado of individual quarter-page  
sized flyers pummelling students to 
last week’s evident demonstration 
on the extent of free speech, braving 
the campus’ main path isn’t always a 
walk in the park.
Luckily, there are a few fail-proof 
tips to help you make it to class 
without major trouble. As some have 
suggested in support of the existence 
of last week’s display, simply don’t go 
on Library Walk. Being able to make 
your way to class without seeing 
upsetting images — and being told 
that having an abortion leads to the 
same result as the Holocaust — is 
evidently a privilege now. Thus, 
rather than using Library Walk for 
your commute to classes, head west 
and travel along North Torrey Pines 
Road, then cut right when necessary. 
Another alternative is to explore the 
surrounding beauty of San Diego by 
heading further west and walking 
along the beach. We’re the number 
one beach university, after all.
If you do stay on ground, grab a 
prop. Textbooks work for covering 
eyes, as do a great pair of binoculars 
for pretend birdwatch. Just make 
sure to look about 90 degrees up, as 
the display is pretty high.
But don’t feel limited to the 
ground. Like most corporations, 
Uber is generous, and it recently 
began extending its services to 
include helicopter rides. At an 
average of $219 per ride, your 
ride to class comes out to be just 
barely cheaper than the price of 
one textbook, for which you can 
probably find the PDF online if you 
work diligently and illegally enough. 
From 8,000 feet in the sky, you 
may be just far away enough to 
miss the computer-graphic photos 
depicting baby fetuses, bludgeoned 
unborn children and anything else 
— and we mean anything — that the 
university approves to take the form 
of 15-feet-tall posters. It’s not like it 
can prevent that from happening, 
anyway, or that it has to approve 
it in the first place and make a 
conscious decision to allow a display 
of incredible powers on campus’ 
main walkway.
Finally, if you feel the 
demonstration that happened last 
week should not happen here, there’s 
an often-overlooked text that serves 
as a universal problem solver, is used 
responsibly without fail and would 
certainly fix everything if applied 
here. Put into effect on Dec. 15, 
1791, the First Amendment provides 
freedom of religious expression, 
freedom of the press and freedom of 
the speech. 
There you have it folks: Anyone 
can say anything, wherever they 
want — and this includes plastering 
disruptive images on public 
walkways for the sake of restricting 
women’s rights to decisions 
involving their own bodies — and 
the university is obviously under 
legal obligation to approve all 
demonstrations of any content, or 
else President Obama will come to 
UCSD and fire everyone for failing 
to honor the Constitution, Bill of 
Rights and, well, America.
Safe travels, Tritons, and plan to 
leave earlier for class, take longer 
routes, avert your eyes and change 
your lifestyle — it’s for a good cause, 
right?The Lack of  Diversity and Minority Representation at the 
Oscars Has Necessitated a Boycott to Promote Change
QUICK TAKESTHE ACADEMY HAS ONCE AGAIN FAILED TO NOMINATE PEOPLE OF COLOR FOR MAJOR ACTING CATEGORIES, 
CAUSING SOME LEADING ACTORS TO CALL FOR A BOYCOTT OF THE OSCARS AND ITS LACK OF DIVERSITY.
Immediately following the Academy announcement of all-white 
nominees, #OscarsStillSoWhite began trending across social media sites. 
With many notable actors and directors, including Spike Lee, Jada Pinkett 
Smith and Mark Ruffalo calling for a boycott of the Oscars in response to 
a lack of diversity, many viewers are left questioning a beloved and long-
standing award show. This boycott is a reasonable reaction to the Academy’s 
exclusion of minority groups.
Many within the Academy and the film industry have explained that the 
noticeable absence of color in the nominee selections has little to do with a 
lack of diversity within the award show, but is representative of the lack of 
color within Hollywood as a whole. However, there were plenty of notable 
performances by black actors this year; including Michael B. Jordan for 
“Creed” and Will Smith for “Concussion. ” How can the Academy claim that it 
didn’t have any options to add diversity when “Straight Outta Compton” had 
a phenomenal ensemble of black actors and also director F. Gary Gray, yet 
chose to nominate only the film’s two white screenwriters? 
The problem is not a lack of impressive performances by minority actors. 
The problem is with the membership of the Academy itself, a predominately 
white institution. With a lack of diversity within the voting pool, it comes 
as no surprise that there is an absence of minorities within Oscar nominees. 
The intense social media backlash aimed at the award show has, however 
proven to be successful, as the Academy has recently announced plans to 
diversify their membership.
The Academy Awards have long been seen as the epitome of achievement 
in the cinematic arts. Winning an Oscar not only recognizes the extraordinary 
performances of an actor/director, but it cements them into film history. The 
Oscars are watched across the world by millions of people, and this noticeable 
lack of minority representation on one of the world’s biggest stages sets a 
definitive tone from the Academy and the film industry. This exclusion is telling 
minority groups that they do not have a place on the silver screen. An Oscars 
boycott may be the defining action needed for Hollywood to take a deep look at 
the films they want to create and the message they want to send to audiences.
 — AARTHI VENKAT
                              Staff WriterAn Oscars’ Boycott Will Fail to Address the Dominance of  
White Culture that Plagues the Entire Film Industry
As #OscarsStillSoWhite circulates through social media, voices from 
Hollywood, including Jada Pinkett Smith and Spike Lee, are speaking up 
about integrated racism within the Academy. In fact, Academy President 
Cheryl Boone Isaacs issued a statement saying she was “frustrated about 
the lack of inclusion. ” When such a claim is made, internet champions 
are quick to insist that there are simply no deserving POC nominees this 
year, and that bringing up race is, in essence, discriminatory. Yet, after a 
brief look over a list of forty nominations for acting roles — forty white 
people — chosen by an Academy that is, according to The Atlantic, 94 
percent white, 76 percent male and an average age of 63 years old, it is 
increasingly clear that it is no coincidence for fan favorites like “Straight 
Outta Compton” to have received so few nominations.
The lack of diversity in Oscar nominees highlights not only the issue 
with the Academy itself but also the dearth of opportunities offered to 
actors and actresses of color. According to a study by the University 
of Southern California, of the top 100 highest-grossing 2014 films, 17 
featured non-white leads or co-leads. The breakdown is astonishing: 73.1 
percent White, 12.5 percent Black, 5.3 percent Asian, 4.9 percent Hispanic 
and 4.2 percent Other. These statistics not only emphasize the biases in 
the media industry but also the need for dimensional roles. Frequently, 
actors of color are misrepresentations of their cultures, which only furthers 
racial stereotypes. Take for example Asian-American representation in the 
mainstream film industry, consisting largely of the token “smart, socially 
awkward nerd with thick accent” or the objectified sex symbol. With lack 
of diversification brings untold stories and unheard voices.
The issue with representation is one ingrained within the film industry, 
not simply isolated to the Oscars. The purpose of film is exponentially 
greater than to entertain audiences. Film conveys emotion, spreads a vital 
message and portrays the ideas of generations. It is crucial that diversity 
is prioritized by the Academy and the films it celebrates through the 
representation of actors of colors in multidimensional roles. Only then can 
we gain perspective on the lives and cultures of those around us.
                                 — MEGAN MONGES
 Staff Writer
disturbing 
student
 sp aceOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 25, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
Bio-Ethical Reform has a right 
to force o ffensive visuals into 
the public’s mind, but the public 
also has a right to express its 
consequential anger. The fact that 
the Reform felt the need to place a 
metal fence and security cameras 
around the posters demonstrates an 
awareness of the hostility its tactless 
displays would generate.
Presenting a billboard with 
images of mutilated fetuses in 
a public space may fall under 
freedom of speech, but it is an 
abuse of this freedom and an 
exploitation of student space. Bio-
Ethical Reform’s decision to use 
graphic imagery demonstrates a 
lack of respect and consideration 
for UCSD students. It created 
a visual barrier in the center of 
campus that forced students to 
endure nauseating, repugnant 
images of blood-smattered fetuses. 
Although warning signs were placed on each end of Library Walk, 
this did not ensure consent to view 
these images. The posters were 
large enough to be visible from 
distant locations across campus. 
In addition to that, many students 
habitually walk through this area to 
get to class or to buy lunch.
Furthermore, the fact that 
the group used tactics such as 
comparing abortion to genocide, 
the Holocaust and lynching 
crimes facilitates the distribution 
of misleading information to 
the public. These insensitive 
comparisons distort reality and 
spread false information. Women 
were especially attacked and 
demeaned by this graphic, gory 
display, which places responsibility 
on their shoulders for the deaths 
of unborn o ffspring. According to 
Our Bodies Ourselves, a nonpro fit 
organization specializing in 
women’s reproductive health, prior 
to the legalization of abortion 
in 1973, there were about 1.2 million U.S. women seeking 
illegal abortions each year and 
these unsafe procedures caused 
as many as 5,000 annual deaths. 
Facts like these are missing from 
our education and the posters 
presented by Bio-Ethical Reform. It 
failed to provide credible evidence 
to support its accusatory claims, 
relying on the shock value of gory 
imagery.
It’s absurd that the student 
body at UCSD is a fforded no 
defense from the administration 
against images with triggering and 
gory content. In order to receive 
a so-called public education at 
this university, students have to 
pay an arm and a leg. It doesn’t 
seem like a lot to ask that people 
— and especially organizations 
who are visitors on this campus 
— treat students with respect and 
consideration.
KOTA YAMAZAKI / 
FLUID HUG-HUG
DANCE COMPANY 
OQ
Global traditions ﬂow together in this latest work by Bessie Award–
winning choreographer Kota Yamazaki. OQ is inspired by Japanese ritual 
poetry readings held at the Imperial Palace.
Friday, January 29, at 8 pm
Mandeville Auditorium
Tickets: $28–46; $12 UCSD Students
artpower.ucsd.edu | 858.534.TIXS
CONTEST 2 016TRITON SPIRIT WEEK
“THANK YOU” TO ALL THE
PARTICIPANTS & WINNERS!
HONORABLE MENTIONS:1st PLACE - FINANCIAL AID OFFICE
3rd PLACE - HOUSING DINING HOSPITALITY
2nd PLACE - UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT, RADY
Payroll O ffice
Electrical and Computer Engineering
Sponsored by Associated Students, A.S. Graphic Studio 
and the Office of the Vice Chancellor of Student Affairs.
The T riggering Imagery of  Dismembered Fetuses Disrupts Campus Climate.WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
▶ PROTEST from page 4
CHECK OUT OUR 
WEBSITE ONLINE
ucsdguardian.org
SEND YOUR 
LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGGOT ISSUES?CASSIA  POLLOCK    CHPOLLOC@UCSD.EDU6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 25, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
ALLISON  KUBO
features@ucsdguardian.org
With the NCAA Division-I referendum looming, and tensions de fining campus climate, Spirit Night presents a vision of a school with school spirit. The UCSD 
Guardian polled students and interviewed members of Pep Band, Tritons Rising, ICRA and athletics to get to the issues behind the blue and yellow face paint. Just Another Night? SPIRIT NIGHT or
by Allison Kubo// Features Editor
design by Aleya ZenierisThe buzzer rings then there is the distinctive swish of the basketball 
net. The crowd erupts into shouts and flashes of yellow as the men’s 
basketball team scores another three-pointer. At one end of the court, 
a conglomeration of athletes, Greeks, organizations and dancers chant the 
name of our school over and over again, echoing louder than the call of a 
time-out. Brie fly, they sport a sign that says, “ This is what Div-1 looks like” in 
glitter paint. At the other end of the court, the Pep Band, dressed in Hawaiian 
attire, blasts an arrangement while dancing.
Muir College sophomore Chris Gross, co-conductor of the Pep Band, 
sports a coconut bra and grass skirt just as he had promised the UCSD 
Guardian a day before when he sat down to talk about Pep Band and school 
spirit in general. 
“You will have the audience and they will be dead or quiet, ” Gross told 
the Guardian outside of Starbucks. “When we play a song it gets the crowd 
more into it, it upli fts the atmosphere. I will look over and some of the crowd 
members look more into it [the game] ... I wish people had more school spirit, 
which is what pep band tries to provide. ”
Despite the large turnout for Spirit Night this past Friday, and the musical 
efforts of the Pep Band, according to a poll run by the Guardian school spirit 
is overall poor. Over 100 anonymous students rated UCSD spirit at a 1.9 out 
of five. However, college school spirit was higher than the overall university, 
averaging 2.2 out of five. 
Although the numbers look bad, some responders didn’t view school spirit 
as a valid problem.
“I don’t think we need to improve school spirit, ” one responder noted. 
“UCSD is an atypical college experience and I knew that when I signed up to 
come here. I think it’s one of the things that makes us special. Our atmosphere 
isn’t college-y. ”
Others saw the issue in the opposite light. 
“It’s super ficial spirit, ” a passionate responder pointed out. “Every damn 
event is organized top-down, never middle or even bottom-up. Yes, on 
occasion RAs host small events, and my college will give me a free sandwich 
and a brochure, but that’s it. The climate remains focused on constantly 
working and studying. It’s hard to articulate how fucked this school is in that; 
all of what I just typed is fragments but it’s infuriating to think about. ”Although there appears to be no agreement, the voices of the latter 
echo louder than the former in debates over campus climate. Amid this, a 
referendum to move athletic standing from Division II to Division I will be 
decided on by A.S. Council this coming Wednesday. The change could o ffer 
a bandage for hemorrhaging morale and bring us to the level of our UC 
competitors according to A.S. Council President Dominick Suvonnasupa. 
“We compete with Cal and [UCLA] academically in a lot fields and best 
them in some fields, [which is] amazing considering we’re much younger than 
they are, ” Suvonnasupa told the Guardian. “I think what Division I would do 
is let us catch up to them in other ways. ”
When asked what students and the university could do to increase the 
school spirit, 35 percent of those who answered supported the change. 
“[Becoming] a Division-One NCAA institution is the key to improving 
both spirit and school visibility, ” one student said. “ As much as I loathe 
football and its following, I think bringing the sport would promote more 
camaraderie for UCSD and more degree and school recognition. ”
Camaraderie through athletics is what Tritons Rising, a new student 
organization supported by the Department of Athletics, is dedicated to 
promoting. During one of their events to promote Spirit Night, we talked with 
Muir junior Omid Tabatabai, a founding member of Tritons Rising.
After handing out hundreds of bright yellow shirts, Tabatabai commented that 
by supporting athletics we can help reduce stress and build pride in our school. 
“Personally, I feel that we are distracted by administration and tensions 
in the world, not just UCSD, ” Tabatai told the Guardian. “More school spirit 
and going to games could help students take their mind o ff it; it takes a small 
few to get the movement going and it can make a di fference at the games. 
Honestly, it’s a fun time. Even if you don’t know what’s going on, you can still 
feel a part of it. ”
According to the Guardian’s poll, UCSD students on average only attend 
1.2 games per quarter. Although many had been to multiple games ranging 
from four to six, over 50 percent of responders do not attend any games 
per quarter. However e fforts by Tritons Rising and individual college spirit 
groups seem to be working. With 3,924 fans at the men’s game last Friday 
See SPIRIT , page 8
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE/ UCSD GUARDIANFEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 25, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
Between primary school, secondary 
school and up through the likes of 
institutions such as UCSD, most 
people have amassed thousands of hours 
in a classroom setting by the time they 
have completed college. A fter nearly two 
decades — o ftentimes more — dedicated 
to an academic objective, it is reasonable to 
presume an individual would be more than 
knowledgeable in their chosen area of study. 
However, the results of these 
commitments to education o ften say 
otherwise. A study by the National Center for 
Education Statistics reported that, of eighth-
graders surveyed across the nation, only 50 
percent were able to correctly multiply -5 
and -7. In an assessment of young adults 
conducted by National Geographic, most 
could not identify which continent the Sudan 
is located in. As information like this is 
presented, it begs the question if are students 
genuinely learning the information taught 
in a classroom or simply retaining it long 
enough to pass an exam.
Hal Pashler, a professor in UCSD’s 
department of psychology, has devoted a 
considerable amount of his research e fforts 
to the subject of learning and memory 
behaviors. In a collaborative study with Doug 
Rohrer from the University of South Florida, 
he examined learning strategies that could 
yield long-term retention in students.
The focus of their study, Increasing 
Retention Without Increasing Study Time, 
centered on two aspects: how long a cluster of 
information should be studied before shi fting 
into di fferent content or stopping altogether 
and determining how to distribute an explicit 
amount of time studying across multiple 
study sessions.
“Once a student has cycled through a list 
of vocabulary words until each de finition has 
been correctly recalled exactly one time, the 
student must decide whether to cycle again 
through the same list, ” Pashler and Rohrer 
stated in their research.
This method has been coined as overlearning, the continuation of study 
immediately a fter a person has achieved 
error-free performance.
“Many educators argue that overlearning is 
an effective way to boost long-term retention, 
and overlearning appears to be quite common 
in schools, ” the research noted.
In the experiments, additional studying 
typically boosted test performance results, 
but a fter further examination, Pashler and 
Rohrer questioned whether or not the 
bene fits of this strategy were misleading.
“T o determine how the bene fits of 
overlearning hold up over meaningful 
periods of time, we have been measuring the 
effects of overlearning a fter various retention 
intervals — the amount of time between 
study and test, ” Pashler and Rohrer stated in 
their research study.
To do this, they tested subjects, giving 
them either five learning trials (adequate 
learning) or 10 learning trials (overlearning) 
and evaluating them one or four weeks 
later. Over-learners scored higher in week 
one tests, but the results were negligible 
in comparison to adequate learners by the 
fourth week.
“Other studies of ours have con firmed this 
pattern of declining overlearning bene fits, ” 
Pashler and Rohrer noted. “We see that while 
overlearning o ften increases performance for 
a short while, the bene fit diminishes sharply 
over time. ” 
While their research on overlearning 
indicates short-term retention, it opens the 
door to their next area of focus, the spacing 
of learning.
“Overlearning speaks to one aspect of the 
broader question of how distribution of study 
time a ffects learning, ” Pashler and Rohrer 
stated in their work. “In most research on this 
topic, a fixed amount of study time is divided 
across two sessions that are separated by an 
intersession interval. ”
This method suggests long-term retention 
is likely to be gained from properly spaced 
periods of studying rather than one large mass. For students, this can be achieved 
rather easily. Cramming the night before a 
final may have short-term bene fits through 
an exam, but incorporating routine intervals 
of studying throughout the quarter will 
assist in preserving information for extended 
periods of time.
“When tested later, performance is usually 
much better if the study time is spaced 
rather than massed — a finding known 
as the spacing e ffect, ” Pashler and Rohrer 
noted. “While the superiority of spacing over 
massing is well-established, less is known 
about how far apart the study sessions should 
be spaced to optimize long-term retention. ” 
These results lead to the question 
of whether or not the duration of the 
intersession interval a ffects memory, and if 
so, how.
“Our experiments demonstrate that 
powerful spacing e ffects occur over 
practically meaningful time periods, ” Pashler 
and Rohrer’s research concluded. “Final test 
performance depends heavily on the duration 
of the spacing gap, with too-brief gaps 
causing poorer performance than excessively 
long gaps. ”
While Pashler and Rohrer’s research 
focused primarily on these two key 
components of learning, many other 
aspects factor into the long-term retention 
of information, many of which have been 
overlooked by experimental psychologists 
over time. However, interest in this domain 
of research has been gaining popularity in 
recent years.
“Efforts are underway in various places 
to try to cull research for simple, concrete 
principles that be communicated directly to 
learners and teachers, ” Pashler and Rohrer 
stated. “ The various developments currently 
underway should all help bring us closer to 
a time when educational practice will rely 
chie fly on empirical evidence rather than a 
combination of tradition and fads. ”With midterms looming, base your study habits on science and learn how to 
learn from an expert. The UCSD Guardian looks at current research on memory 
and education from psychology professor Hal Pashler. 
James Lommer  jlommer@ucsd.edu     Readers can contactby James Lommer // Staff Writer 
illustration by Christina Carlson
design by Aleya ZenierisPHOTO BY MEGAN LEE/ UCSD GUARDIAN8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 25, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
marked the highest attendance since 
2008. Tabatabai commented that the 
organization is trying in increase 
attendance and interest. 
“On campus, it’s hard to get 
people out to games; we do try to 
incentivize but you have to be patient 
and perservere, ” Tabatabai said.
Looking at the Guardian survey, 
giving students incentives means 
spicing up school events with free food, 
tailgates, and one even commented a 
“t-shirt cannon would be dank. ” 
Incentives aren’t just free 
stuff, but also events that appeal 
to students’ natural sense of 
competition. Just like the Spirit 
Night Competition, where each 
college competes for the Spirit Night 
Trophy, students recommended 
more rivalry. The competition 
brings out many of the students 
who normally would not attend. 
Sophomore ERC Student Council 
Member Alison Wong helped lead 
her college to victory on Friday.
“Student spirit on campus is 
usually very quiet, but during Spirit 
Week it is de finitely amped up, ” 
Wong told the Guardian. “Especially 
during the game it is very apparent that UCSD students have spirit in 
their hearts and come together as one 
because we are very competitive. ”
Students o ften identify more 
with their college than with the 
school overall, as shown by the 
higher rating of college spirit 
than university spirit. Pitting the 
six colleges against each other 
increases college pride but it’s hard 
to say what it does for the overall 
university spirit. 
While tabling for the Spirit Night 
Dance, two members of the Inter-
College Resident Association, which 
funds speci fic college events and 
all-campus events, examined the six 
college system and its pitfalls. 
Sixth College sophomore 
Nathan Tong noted the irony 
implicit in holding competitions 
between the six groups.
 “ Although on the [Spirit Night] 
website it does say they try to unify 
the UCSD as one … the colleges 
are split, ” Tong noted. “Maybe we 
shouldn’t emphasize the six college 
system so much. Everytime I meet 
someone the first question I ask is  
‘what college are you from?’ . Maybe 
we need to change that atmosphere. ”
Roosevelt College senior Claudia 
Walukouw agreed with her fellow ICRA member but expressed hope 
that UCSD spirit can be improved.
“It’s di fficult to bring everyone 
together but it’s doable, it just takes 
events like the Spirit Night dance, ” 
Walukouw said. “It is hard because 
It’s not just the six colleges but also 
International House and the Village, 
which is a huge community that 
people ignore when it comes to 
college-based events. ”
It’s nearly impossible to predict 
what, if anything, would happen to 
the individual colleges we call home 
if we switch to Division-I; a house 
divided against itself cannot stand. 
Balancing a healthy rivalry between 
the six colleges and increasing 
university-wide spirit to support 
Division-I teams provides a unique 
challenge for years to come. 
Of course the move has huge 
implications for all areas of student 
life, not just athletics. 
“I think the students need 
to know the pros and the cons, ” 
Tabatabai said. “When the vote goes 
out in spring, read the whole thing. 
Know the fees that go with it, but 
also know that it could make a more 
fun and spirited campus. ”
The move is in itself a gamble 
which is part of the reason that 60 percent of students voted 
against the change in spring of 
2012. However, many of our teams 
already play at a Division-I level 
such as water polo, fencing and 
volleyball. A change of division 
would allow them to recruit more 
students with more funding. Of 
course this comes with three years 
of consecutive fee increases starting 
at $60, $55 then $45 on top of the 
current fee of $129.38. Tallied up 
with in flation it totals to $302.22 in 
2018. And this guarantees nothing 
— voting for the fee increase only 
goes into place if we are accepted 
into a NCAA Division-I conference. 
The Big West Conference, the 
conference of many of our 
neighbors such as UCI and UCSB, 
or another group, must first accept 
UCSD as a competitor. When it was 
brought up in 2012, the Big West 
Conference chose not to add UCSD.
Whether the answer is a switch 
to Division-I, a t-shirt cannon or 
more college competitions, it is clear 
that we need change if we want to 
raise UCSD spirit. Our decisions 
will decide if next year’s Spirit Night 
will be an anomaly or a normality. How Cathy 
Moran 
Changes 
the World
With an MBA from The Anderson 
School at UCLA, an accomplished 
history working with world-renowned 
firms and an unparalleled vigor to 
leave her mark on the world, Cathy 
Moran aims to instill her knowledge 
and passion into each student who 
walks through her classroom’s door.
Moran, a professor of business 
ethics and corporate responsibility at 
the Rady School of Management, sat 
down with the UCSD Guardian to 
discuss her education, career and why 
she does what she does.
Upon completing her undergrad, 
she pursued an MBA with aspirations 
of owning her own business.
“I went to UCLA because it’s very 
strong in entrepreneurship, and I 
thought I wanted my own company, ” 
Moran told the Guardian. “I came out 
of grad school and went to work at 
Intel for 10 years. About as opposite as 
I could have ended up. ”
She interned for Intel during 
graduate school and, despite her 
entrepreneurial ambitions, ended up 
staying with the firm.
While at Intel she collaborated 
with Fortune 500 companies, 
worked closely with the company’s 
CEO and senior vice presidents, and 
walked away with a few stories that 
she likes to say are “good to share 
over a beer. ” After 10 years with the 
company, she opted to take the next 
step in her career.
“It took a little while to figure 
out what I wanted to do next, ” 
Moran said. “I have a passion for the 
environment and looking back on my 
career, I realized everything I’ d done 
was about communicating effectively 
and trying to get the world to see how 
to get things done better. ”
From there, teaching became 
an almost obvious choice. While 
teaching with UCSD’s Extension 
program, she helped design the 
Innovation and Integration of 
Sustainable Practices course, which is 
a requirement for the Sustainability 
Certificate Program. The program 
provides an overview of how to apply 
environmentally sustainable concepts 
to business contexts.
“I started there, ” she said. “I began 
networking and through this space of 
people I knew in San Diego, I came 
across this opportunity at Rady. ”
Whether you take one of her 
classes or simply have a conversation 
with her, it’s evident she wants her 
students to leave with more than just a 
letter grade.
“The reason I do this is kind of 
selfish, ” Moran said. “I wanted to have 
an impact on the world, and working 
as a consultant, it’s relatively small 
compared to what I hope my impact 
is by teaching. Students go out and 
they drive the change that needs to 
happen. So really, this is for me. That’s 
how I have an impact on the world. ”
It’s easy to characterize a professor 
in relation to the difficulty of their 
class. We, as students, often describe 
instructors as being hard, easy or 
somewhere in between. Although we 
expect rigorous courses and academic 
challenges throughout our time here, 
it’s always nice to see professors driven 
by a genuine fervor for what they do.
“I’m not on a tenure track and I 
don’t want to be on a tenure track, ” 
she said. “It’s all about turning out 
students who understand this. It’s 
not about research. It’s not about 
academia. It’s all about changing the 
world through these students. ”James   Lommer
jlommer@ucsd.eduBehind the  Lecturn
Competitions Between Colleges Increase Spirit But Increase Divisions Amoung Students
ALlison  KUBO    AKUBO@UCSD..EDU  READERS CAN CONTACT▶ SPIRIT,  from page 6
Find   out  more 
ucsdguardian.orgONLINEPHOTO BY MEGAN LEE/ UCSD GUARDIANCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 25, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
 DANNY GREEN & DANNY HARVEY WAINAPEL GROUP
THE LOFT •  PC EASTFRIDAY 1.29 • 8pmTahrirCAMPUS
CALENDAR
JAN 25 - JAN 312016 POWERED BY THE CHANCELLOR’S OFFICE AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guardian
Calenda r
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdg uardian.orgWED1.27 TUE1.26
11am
BODY COMPOSITION ANALYSIS - THE ZONE
Walk in for your free analysis which includes: body 
weight, percentage body fat, total body water, and 
blood pressure. One free assessment per quarter is 
available to registered UCSD students. For more 
information visit: 
http://studenthealth.ucsd.edu/bodycomposition.shtml
12pm
LIFE SKILLS SERIES: ROADSIDE SURVIVAL 
WORKSHOP - SUNGOD LAWN, MUIR COLLEGE
This workshop hosted by a local mechanic will cover 
the basics of roadside survival and give participants a 
close-up look of car maintenance.
2pm
ILEAD WORKSHOP: STRESS MANAGEMENT - 
WARREN COLLEGE ROOM, PC WEST, LVL 3
This workshop helps students better manage their 
stress by learning about the nature of stress, the 
relationship between stress and performance, how to 
identify common stressors and the signs of stress, 
and how to reduce stress and keep it at a balanced 
level. The workshop will include a live demonstration 
of a progressive muscle relaxation activity! **2 Stamp 
Event**
2:30pm
CAREER CHATS W/ CSC - THE ZONE
Chat with Roxanne Farkas, a CSC Advisor, about 
professional career objectives and goal setting so you 
can be more successful in obtaining your career 
goals.
6pm
STUDENTS AGAINST MASS INCARCERATION 
GBM SERIES - UCSD COMMUNITY RESOURCE 
CENTERS
This quarter SAMI is hosting GBMs at the five 
community centers on campus! Each meeting we will 
discuss the prison industrial complex and mass 
incarceration by focusing on issues specific to the 
community that week. Please join us at these events 
for discussion and to learn more about what SAMI 
does! Week 4 1/27 6PM - RRC
6:30pm
SPEAK AND SPARK SERVICE : INTERNATIONAL 
RESCUE COMMITTEE - BEAR ROOM, SUN GOD 
LOUNGE
The International Rescue Committee responds to the 
world's worst humanitarian crises, helping to restore 
health, safety, education, economic well being,and 
power to people devastated by conflict and disaster. 
Come hear from organization workers on how you 
can assist them in their efforts to serve in over 40 
countries and 26 U.S. cities helping people to survive, 
reclaim control of their future and strengthen their 
communities.FRI1.29
10am
FITNESS ZONE: MASSAGE FOR STRESS RELIEF - 
THE ZONE
Massage provides relaxation and tranquility from the 
stress and tension of long hours spent at a desk or 
high pressure days. Massage is one of the most 
ancient of the healing arts and can enhance your 
general health and well-being. Wear comfortable 
clothing as students will practice on each other. Lead 
by FitLife instructor Barbara Romero.
12pm
INTERNATIONAL FRIDAY CAFE - 
INTERNATIONAL CENTER PATIO
The Friday Cafe provides a venue where 
international and domestic students, scholars, 
faculty, staff and the local community can come 
together to celebrate cultural diversity and 
international education. Each week the Friday Cafe 
presents the opportunity to explore world cultures, 
cuisines, music and more. Join us for this unique 
international experience! Price: $5 per plate Contact: 
maiEguchi@mail.ucsd.edu (858) 822-5328
3pm
DE-STRESS W/ BIOFEEDBACK - THE ZONE
Come de-stress with the CAPs Wellness Peers! 
Measure your psychological stressors and learn 
more about what makes you most stressed, how it 
affects your well-being and how to keep your stress 
levels down! Workshops are all free. Space is limited 
and is first come, first served.  Hosted by the CAPS 
Wellness Peer Educators
8pm
DANNY GREEN & DANNY HARVEY WAINAPEL 
GROUP - THE LOFT, PC EAST
Danny Green - piano, Harvey Wainapel - sax, Justin 
Grinnell - bass, Mark Lamson - percussion, Julien 
Cantelm - drums.  Advance: $12.00, Door: $15.00 
UCSD Student: $6.00, Tickets on Sale Soon! 
"Wainapel proves that he is amongst the most 
imaginative, sensitive and creative saxophonists of 
the post-Coltrane era" -The San Francisco Examiner 
"Wainapel displayed incredible intimacy with the 
language of Brazilian music and great stage 
presence" -O Globo (Rio de Janeiro)
8pm
DANCE COMPANY OQ - MANDEVILLE 
AUDITORIUM
Global traditions flow together in this latest work by 
Bessie Award-winning choreographer Kota Yamazaki. 
Inspired by Japanese ritual poetry readings held at 
the Imperial Palace, Yamazaki's OQ (okuy is the 
phonetic reading of the Japanese word for 
"palace"  ) features dancers from diverse cultural 
and dance backgrounds including Western 
contemporary, butoh, hip-hop, and Jamaican dance. 
Within a space designed by award-winning New York 
architect collective SO-IL that complements the 
dancers' fluid motions, Yamazaki - palace with its 
own rituals and customs - comes to life before our 
very eyes.10am
FITNESS ZONE: BARRE FIT - THE ZONE
A full body workout fusing the best elements of 
ballet, pilates, muscle toning and conditioning. Lead 
by FitLife instructor Priscila Parker.
3pm
R&R SQUAD - THE ZONE
Drop-in and get a low intensity back rub from the 
R&R Squad! Questions? Contact The Zone at 
zone@ucsd.edu
THU1.28
10am
MEDITATION- THE ZONE
Join us for a guided meditation where you can: 
Gain greater mental clarity, Achieve a peaceful 
state of being, Learn techniques to de-stress, 
Achieve harmony amid cognitive dissonance.
12pm
LUNCH WITH THE UC STUDENT REGENT - 
PRICE CENTER EAST, LVL 4
Every year, one student is selected to serve as the 
Student Regent on the Board of Regents of the 
University of California. This individual, conjointly 
selected by the principal governing bodies of the 
UC system, attends all board meetings, maintains 
full voting power, and enjoys waived university 
fees whilst they serve as a Regents-designate and 
as a member of the Board. The position was 
created to ensure that the student voice was 
heard and represented, even at the highest level of 
administrative decision-making.  On January 28th, 
the current Student Regent (Avi Oved) and Student 
Regent Designate (Marcela Ramirez) will be 
hosting an open forum to answer questions 
relating to the position and application process.MON1.25
10am
STUDENT HEALTH ADVOCATES RECRUITMENT - 
MURRAY'S PLACE CONF. RM, STUDENT HEALTH 
SRVCS, LVL 2
The Student Health Advocates are trained, volunteer 
peer health educators who educate other students on 
topics such as sexual health, alcohol, drugs, stress, 
nutrition and more! Attend one of our Application 
Information Sessions to learn how you can join our 
team!
11am
WINTER 2016 VENDOR FAIR - LIBRARY WALK
The UC San Diego Vendor Fair is a tri-annual 
on-campus event open to local vendors selling 
various merchandise and products. Located in the 
middle of campus on Library Walk, the Vendor Fair 
attracts hundreds of students giving them the 
opportunity to purchase an assortment of goods and 
learn about local companies. Vendor Fair brings in 
crafters, boutiques, and commercial exhibits to 
showcase a variety of items including clothing, 
jewelry, phone accessories, beauty products, 
sunglasses, shoes, artwork, and much more!
11am
ART & SOUL: PUFFY PAINT SOCKS - THE ZONE
Workshops are free; all supplies and materials 
provided. Space is limited and is first come, first 
served.
2pm
HUNGRY FOR HEALTHY: SPICY VEGETABLE 
FRIED RICE - THE ZONE
Come join us as we make Spicy Vegetable Fried Rice 
hosted by the Christine McNamara, the Student 
Health Services Registered Dietitian) and get FREE 
samples! Materials and ingredients are provided. 
Space is limited, first come, first served.
5pm
MUSLIM AND CHRISTIAN INFLUENCE ON 
JEWISH LAW - THE IDA AND CECIL GREEN 
FACULTY CLUB 
As a rule, people think that legal systems and 
religions are closed. In reality, legal systems and 
religions borrow laws and customs from each other. 
In this lecture, we shall see that Judaism borrowed 
laws and customs from Christianity and Islam during 
the Middle Ages (500-1600 c.e).
SAT1.30
4:30pm
THESISWORKS - FOREGROUND - SCRIPPS 
FOOTBRIDGE (ON LA JOLLA SHORES DRIVE)
thesisWorks is the Department of Theatre & 
Dance's annual presentation of original 
choreography of MFA Dance Theatre candidates. 
This year will feature the work of choreographers 
Dina Apple and Emily Aust.  Advance tickets for 
this production are available Monday-Friday, noon 
to 6 pm by calling the Box Office at 858.534.4574 
or in person at the Theatre District’s Central Box 
Office at the Sheila & Hughes Potiker Theatre.
General Admission: $20, UCSD Faculty/ 
Staff/Alumni Association, and Seniors (over 62): 
$15 UCSD Students/UCSD Alumni Association 
(with ID): $10 
10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 25, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDS$
Gua rdian Classi fieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedscrossword
Across
 1 Delhi garb
 5 Protuberance
 9 Flashy
 14 Envelop
 15 Wickedness
 16 “The Waste Land” poet
 17 Land in water
 18 Profound
 19 Engaged in
 20 Movie theater appliance
 23 Surround with an aura
 24 SSS word
 25 Lawyers’ org.
 28 Parcel, possibly
 32 WWII pres.
 35 Hawaiian bird
 36 Uncouth person
 37 Seed covering
 39 Word before ends of 20A, 28A, 48A  
  and 58A
 42 Faucet brand
 43 Clear thinking
 45 Greek war god
 47 Rtes.
 48 Cocktail implement
 52 Last chapter
 53 Major ISP
 54 Hospital workers
 58 Sycophant’s reward
 61 Leon Uris novel
 64 Pig noise
 65 Actor Franco
 66 Jumps ship
 67 Long ago
 68 Hydroxyl compound
 69 Silvery food fish
 70 College VIP
 71 Indian royaltyDown
 1 Sweeping blow
 2 Illegal firing?
 3 Writer Ellison
 4 Emetic medication
 5 “Air Music” composer
 6 Kitchen kiln
 7 Carpe __!
 8 Half of UTEP
 9 Worn ornaments
 10 Banned spray
 11 Quick turn
 12 Tony winner Caldwell
 13 Since 1/1
 21 “The Good Earth” wife
 22 Cyclades island
 25 Loathe
 26 Razzed
 27 Neural transmitters
 29 Kind of fingerprint
 30 Test versions
 31 River regulator
 32 Fabricated
 33 Engulf
 34 Inflexible
 38 Taylor who played Cleo
 40 Component of some TVs
 41 Dutch brew
 44 Of Russian monarchy
 46 Porgy
 49 Elton’s john
 50 One of the Blues Brothers
 51 Scandinavian coins
 55 City in Tuscany
 56 Bankrupt energy giant
 57 Popular vodka, familiarly
 58 Buffalo athlete
 59 Baseball team
 60 Andes autocrat
 61 NFL passers
 62 Emeril’s exclamation
 63 CompeteBIKES
BMX Bike 20 - $145. I have a BMX bike for 
sale. Don’t use it that much. Pretty much 
stock except the back wheel. Listing ID: 
228379534 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Trek Mountain Bike - $100. Trek 8500 2011 
mountain bike. Fair condition. Tires need 
air. Aluminum hardtail frame. Thirty gears. 
Front and back disc brakes. Listing ID: 
228379536 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Helmet Small - $15. I have a pretty girls bike 
helmet in terrific condition! I changed col -
ors. Listing ID: 228379540 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
ELECTRONICS
Brand New iPod - $60. Third generation. 
Perfect for people who don’t want to hurt 
their phone doing activities. Listing ID: 
228379624 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Polaroid Speaker - $15. Short, blue and 
easy to carry Bluetooth speaker. Listing ID: 
228379622 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information40 Inch Toshiba 1080p-1080i LCD - $275. 
This LCD television is compatible with PCs. 
Great for viewing vacation images, movies 
and starting a home theater system. Top of 
the line as far as televisions go. Listing ID: 
228379615 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
FURNITURE
Bed and Frame - $120. Metal bed frame and 
European mattress. In terrific condition. 
Comes with optional bed raisers. Listing ID: 
228379651 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Sofa and Loveseat Set - $495. Great set of 
couches. All four recliners work. Microfiber 
material. Attractive condition. No tears in 
material. Moving and can’t take with. Priced 
to move quickly. Make your best offer. 
Need to sell NOW. Listing ID: 228379649 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Large Pottery Barn Chair and Ottoman - 
$125. Quite like-new condition. A few years 
old but hardly used. Can fit two people. 
Listing ID: 228379640 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
tyour vision,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel to 
promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!www.ucsdguardian.org/advertising
#OMG 
#LIKE US
#FOLLOW US
@ucsdgua rdian
LECTURENOTESGOT
NOTES?
Current notes 
subscriptions are 
still ONLY $29
 lecturenotes.ucsd.edu
Hours: Monday-Friday • 10am-5pm.  HURRY! They go up to 
$35 starting 5th week
Check out website for 
list of currents and 
archivesV
D
T
E
H
V
B
S
E
J
B
O

P
S
HYOUR
NEWS
NOW!
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 25, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
Karmonize.org  is a student organization
where we can support good causes,
cooperate, and volunteer to
improve the UCSD community.HELP OTHERS, FIND HELP
WHEN YOU NEED IT, AND
MAKE KARMA REAL!
few minutes and the de ficit stood 
at seven with four minutes to go. 
Down 65–72, the Tritons continued 
to su ffer against Lee who had her 
21st and 22nd points of the night on 
a sizzling dribble that cut through a 
double- team for the layup. With two 
minutes le ft, UCSD started to foul 
the Dominguez Hills players, hoping 
for errors on the free-throw line and 
cut the de ficit to six once again with 
1:25 le ft to play in the game. Garcia 
made both her free-throws to bring 
the score up to 80–72 with a mere 
minute to play. On the quick inbound 
play, Mounier made an improbable 
banked three-point shot to bring the 
game back within reach, down five. 
However, the Toros continued to 
make their free-throws and, despite 
yet another improbable three-point 
shot by Katuna, Dominguez Hills 
brought home the 89–82 win. 
“ A lot of points scored and a 
lot of o ffense, ” UCSD Head Coach 
Heidi VanDerveer told the athletics 
department. “I just wish our defense 
would have been a little better. We 
lost our focus defensively and they 
came out very aggressively. They 
got us on our heels. I’m glad we 
responded. We were very aggressive 
offensively and had a good rhythm. 
Down the stretch we couldn’t get the 
stops that we needed. ”  
For the Tritons, Katuna, Tanita 
and Mounier all had double-
digits points, with 18, 21 and 17 
respectively. Shokoor got close to 
a double-double, with 9 points and 
8 rebounds. This e ffort was not 
enough, however, and the Tritons 
suffered in defense, allowing four 
Toros players to score over 12 
points, with Monay and junior 
guard Imari Brown combining to put up 47. UCSD also su ffered on 
the boards at a de ficit of 39–47, with 
both Wilson and Monay recording 
double-doubles.  
UCSD vs. CSULA
On Saturday night, UCSD got 
back to its winning ways by taking 
care of CSULA. All five Tritons 
starters scored in double- figures. 
Katuna and Shokoor both had 16 
points. Shokoor also grabbed nine 
rebounds and  Anderson had a 
double-double, grabbing 10 boards 
and putting up 10 points, just like 
Tanita and Mounier. 
The Tritons did not trail in the 
game until the third quarter, going 
up by as high as nine. However, 
the Golden Eagles fought back and 
took a 51–42 advantage going into 
the fourth quarter. CSULA pushed 
the lead to as much as 12 in the 
early fourth quarter, but the Tritons 
were not about to see the preceding 
night’s scenario repeat itself. The 
Tritons then went on a devastating 
14–0 run to take the lead and would 
not relinquish it, making all 10 
free-throws and holding strong on 
defense in the final minute to take it 
by nine.
“Coming into this we wanted 
to get that win, ” Anderson told the 
athletics department. “ As the season 
goes on they are going to key in and 
scout Jamie [Katuna] and Farrah 
[Shokoor] just because they are 
such big threats so it’s important to 
have more o ffensive weapons like 
Beth [Mounier’s] shooting or Tiny 
[Tanita] getting into the paint. ” 
UCSD will now go back on the road 
to take on Humboldt State on Jan. 28 
and Cal Poly Pomona on Jan. 30. The UCSD men’s volleyball team 
finished a three-game road trip, 1–2,  
in which they faced 11th-nationally 
ranked Pepperdine on Wednesday, 
eighth-ranked Stanford on Friday 
and Holy Names on Saturday. The 
loss to both ranked opponents 
in straight sets began our stint of 
road games but defeating Holy 
Names in straight sets renewed 
some con fidence to finish the trip 
on a strong note. Now the Tritons 
stand with an overall 2–5 record 
and will look to duplicate Saturday’s 
performance in their next match.
UCSD vs. Stanford 
On Friday night, UCSD was up 
against another ranked opponent 
after the match against Pepperdine: 
this time, eighth-ranked Stanford, 
who would go on to win the match 
in straight sets, 25–16, 25–20, and 
25–19.
Coming o ff a solid match 
performance on Wednesday, junior 
middle blocker Shayne Beamer once 
again came out firing, totaling six 
kills and a team-high three blocks 
for the Tritons. Junior outside hitter 
Ian Colbert also performed well and 
filled up the stat sheet with six kills, 
five digs, two service aces, two assists 
and a block on the night.  
UCSD got o ff to a slow start and 
was not able to overcome the 18–11 
gap against a strong Stanford team, 
who finished o ff the set with an ace. 
The Tritons came out in the 
second set with improved play, 
leading the Cardinals 8–7, and stayed competitive for the most part, tied 
13–13 midway through. However, 
after that point Stanford dominated 
and again finished the set with an ace. 
Similarly to the second set, 
the Tritons were able to gain the 
lead midway through set but then 
were not able to hold on. UCSD 
had a 15–13 lead a fter a serve 
from the Cardinals’ senior middle 
blocker Conrad Kaminski. From 
that point, the Cardinals took firm 
control behind 7–0 and 4–0 runs; 
a kill from fellow Cardinals middle 
blocker, freshman Chris Moore, 
ended the set. 
UCSD vs. Holy Names
After a rough start to the three-
game road trip, the Tritons found 
consistent play and defeated non-
conference opponent Holy Names 
on Saturday in straight sets, 25–22, 
25–23 and 25–21.
The victory gave the Tritons an 
overall 2–5 record which already 
equals the 2–26 record of last season.  
“It was a challenging match, but 
I thought we played really well late 
in each set, ” Ring told the UCSD 
Athletics Department. “We came up 
with some big plays, whether it was 
a stu ff block, a good tough serve, we 
dug some balls and got some good-
quality transition swings. ”
Colbert and sophomore outside 
hitter Alec Flowers led the way for 
the Tritons, both producing double 
digit kills, 13 and 11 respectively.  
Most impressively, neither had a 
single error while hitting above .500 
for the match. In addition to Colbert’s 
career-high 13 kills, he also had a 
career high of 10 in the digs category, producing his first collegiate double-
double. Likewise, sophomore setter 
Milosh Stojcic had a double-double 
on the night. 
UCSD showed resiliency in the 
first two sets, a fter being behind 15–
12 on both occasions and working its 
way up to a level score at 15–15 and 
17–17.
Prior to trailing 15–12, the 
Tritons had a 12–10 lead to which 
the Hawks responded with a 5–0 run. 
UCSD regained composure and tied 
the match at 15–15 and once again at 
19–19. Sophomore opposite Tanner 
Syftestad had two kills in that stint to 
help the team win the set.
UCSD trailed 15–9 in the second 
set and once again came back to tie 
the match up, this time at 22–22, 
followed by a 23–23 tie.  Flowers and 
redshirt sophomore outside hitter 
Calvin Manchenko then killed o ff the 
set with the final two points.
The final set was more of the same 
story: UCSD would trail 16–15, but 
it would quickly turn it around and 
lead 17–16 before narrowing to a 22–
21 lead.  It was a match set with kills 
by Colbert and redshirt freshman 
opposite Luke McDonald. 
Beamer performed consistently 
throughout the road trip, and this 
night was no exception when he 
tallied five kills and five blocks to 
equal his career best. 
UCSD returns to RIMAC Arena 
on Wednesday, Jan. 27 for its next 
match against Princeton.  First serve 
is set for 6 p.m.Tritons Face Humboldt State in Next Game
▶ W. BASKETBALL,  from page 12M. VOLLEYBALL
Bay Area Tour Concludes with Win
Men’s volleyball loses to nationally ranked Stanford and Pepperdine on the road.
BY  D a n i e l  H e r n a n d e z
marcus thuillier    daniel  hernandez    Friday night was Spirit Night for 
a Triton team that was taking on the 
undefeated Cal State Dominguez 
Hills. Despite the support of an 
unprecedented amount of fans, the 
Toros defeated the Tritons 89–82 
in a highly o ffensive game. No. 21 
UCSD bounced back the day a fter to 
take a 73–64 victory over Cal State 
L.A. The Tritons now stand at 10–2 
in the California Collegiate Athletic 
Association and 15–3 overall.
UCSD vs CSUDH
First Quarter
UCSD found themselves in a hole 
early in the game when Cal State 
Dominguez Hill came out of the 
gates shooting lights out and took 
a quick 9–0 lead, forcing a Tritons 
timeout. Senior guard Monay Lee 
from Dominguez Hills made it 
12–0 before senior forward Farrah 
Shokoor finally broke through for 
the Tritons with her first bucket 
of the night; junior guard Beth Mounier with her first three-pointer 
of the night and sophomore forward 
Gigi Olelewe brought the score back 
to 14–9. Lee continued to exploit 
her matchup with Shokoor to score 
another layup, but the Tritons fought 
back with sophomore guard Taylor 
Tanita leading the charge to cut the 
deficit to four with two minutes 
left i n  t h e  first quarter. However, 
Dominguez Hills continued to push 
and concluded a very o ffensive first 
quarter with a 26–18 advantage.
Second Quarter
Despite su ffering on the 
defensive board, UCSD tied the 
score up at 26–26 a fter a beautiful 
fadeaway jumper from senior guard 
Jamie Katuna, a three-point play 
opportunity converted by Tanita 
and junior guard Haley Anderson’s 
first three-pointer. The Tritons 
even took a two-point advantage 
after Tanita spin-moved into the 
paint and scored the di fficult layup. 
Lee continued to cause the Tritons 
trouble, relentlessly attacking the 
paint and reaching double- figure 
scoring with five minutes le ft in the second quarter. Tanita answered 
immediately, pushing her total to 
13 on the following possession. 
Dominguez Hills took a 39–38 
advantage with two minutes le ft 
before freshman guard Joleen Yang 
put in her first three-pointer of the 
night. A big block from Olelewe with 
27 seconds le ft ensured the Tritons 
would have the final possession 
of the half, which Katuna used to 
score two more points. Senior guard 
Kielyn Wilson from Dominguez 
Hills took the ball out with 3 seconds 
left to nail an impressive half-court 
buzzer beater to bring her team back 
within one, 43–42 at hal ftime.
Third Quarter
After 2:30 in the second half, 
Dominguez Hills tied things up at 48 
all. On another three-pointer from 
Mounier, UCSD opened up a two 
point lead, 53–51. A fter a 7–0 run 
by the Toros, that also saw Mounier 
twist her ankle and exit the game, 
sophomore guard Paige Song had 
one of the plays of the night when 
she hustled back to block a layup 
attempt in transition. However, Dominguez Hills continued to push 
and increased their lead to seven 
with two minutes le ft to play in 
the quarter. Shokoor picked up her 
fourth foul with 1:16 to play in the 
third quarter and had to sit on the 
bench. UCSD continued to su ffer on 
the boards without her and the extra 
opportunities allowed Dominguez 
Hills to take a seven-point advantage 
into the fourth quarter.Fourth Quarter
Dominguez Hills opened up a 
11-point lead early in the fourth 
quarter a fter a four-point play 
by senior guard Breanne Garcia. 
Behind Tanita the Tritons rallied 
back, cutting the de ficit to six with 
six minutes to play. The Toros and 
Tritons went back and forth for a SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , JANUARY 25, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
week  in
summar y
WOMEN'S
BASKETBALL
MEN'S
BASKETBALLUCSD
UCSDUCSD
UCSDCal State Dominguez Hills
Cal State Los Angeles
Cal State Los Angeles82 - 89
74 - 5173 - 64
79 - 55
MEN'S
VOLLEYBALL
25 25 25
22 23 2116 20 19
25 25 25Stanford
Holy NamesUCSD
UCSDMARCUS  THUILLIER
Looking to bounce back a fter 
a disappointing loss to Cal 
State Monterey Bay, the No. 
17 UCSD men’s basketball team was 
looking forward to two straight home 
games. The Tritons were clearly ready 
to move on from their recent loss, as 
they crushed Cal State Dominguez 
Hills and Cal State Los Angeles in 
consecutive nights to regain first place 
in the California Collegiate Athletic 
Association. The Tritons have improved 
to a remarkable 15–3 overall and 10–2 
in conference play to continue what has 
been a fantastic season.
Game One:
Playing in front of a record-breaking 
3,924 people, the men’s basketball team 
stepped it up for their Spirit Night game 
against the Cal State Dominguez Hills 
Toros. The Triton o ffense was hot out of 
the gate, going up 11–5 within the first 
five minutes of the game. Shooting for 
15–26 overall in the first half, the Tritons 
had no trouble making their shots fall. 
By the end of the half, they amassed 
37 points, leading by as many as 14 
throughout the game’s opening act. 
“The atmosphere was fantastic, ” 
Head Coach Eric Olen told the athletics 
department about the turnout to the 
game. “I felt like our guys fed o ff of it. ”
Leading the early surge were senior 
forward Drew Dyer and junior guard 
Adam Klie, who scored 11 and 10 
points respectively, more than half of 
the team’s points for the half. 
But it didn’t stop there, as the 
Tritons would build on their lead in the 
second, not allowing the Toros to spoil 
their night. Leading by as many as 23 
points, the Tritons had their way with 
a porous defense that simply looked 
unprepared. The Tritons’ defense would 
not budge, allowing 16 of 49 shots 
overall and only four of 20 from three-
point range throughout the game; the 
Tritons would go on to stomp the Toros 
74–51 a fter never trailing at any point during the game.
Dyer led in scoring with 24 points 
and grabbed five rebounds along the 
way, while Klie had another fantastic 
outing, earning a double-double with 
19 points and 10 rebounds. Sophomore 
guard George Buaku had a nice e ffort o ff 
the bench with 12 points and 2 steals. 
The UCSD men’s basketball team 
improved to 14–3 overall and 9–2 
in conference, while the Cal State 
Dominguez Hills dropped to 9–9 
overall and 3–7 in conference play.
Game Two:
For the second night in a row, the 
Triton o ffense came out of the gate on 
fire. Shooting for 15–25 overall and a 
staggering eight of 10 from the three-
point line in the first half, the Tritons 
could not be stopped as they punished 
Cal State Los Angeles’ mistakes on 
defense at every opportunity.
And for the second night in a row, 
Klie put forth a monster e ffort in the 
first half, scoring 14 points to go along 
with 5 assists, putting the Tritons up 
44–29 by the end of the half. Junior 
guard Aleks Lipovic also helped the 
cause with eight points o ff of two three-
pointers in 11 minutes of play. 
While the Triton o ffense cooled o ff 
during the second half, their nine of 19 
shooting was enough to allow the team 
to build on their already large lead to 
close out the game 79–55.
Dyer and Klie both lead the team with 
17 points apiece, while Freshman center 
Chris Hansen had a solid line of 12 points 
and four rebounds. Lipovic also cracked 
double digits with 10 points o ff of solid 
free-throw shooting, while sophomore 
guard Grant Jackson led the team in 
rebounds and assists, with six each.
Cal State Los Angeles continued 
their disappointing season, dropping to 
3–15 overall and 2–9 in conference play. 
UCSD will travel to enemy territory 
to play Humboldt State on Jan. 28. and 
Cal Poly Pomona on Jan. 30.Shooting Lights Out
UCSD earns two straight 20-plus point victories.
W. BASKETBALL
Tritons Can’t Pull off Upset over Dominguez Hills on Spirit Night
UCSD have bounce back game against Cal State Los Angeles on Saturday Night, with all five Triton starters scoring in double-digits.Written by Alex Wu
 // Staff Writer
Photo by Megan Lee  
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE/ UCSD GUARDIAN
See W. BASKETBALL , page 1125 25 2516 20 21
PepperdineUCSD
BY  m a r c u s   t h u i l l i e rCal State Dominguez Hills