VOLUME 50, ISSUE 3   THURSDA Y , SEPTEMBER 29, 2016  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
SECRET LIFE
OF ART
FOR THOSE OF US WHO 
DON’T USUALLY DO A DOUBLE 
TAKE WITH ART, LET THE 
GUARDIAN SHOW YOU THE 
SECRET LIFE OF ART — 
WHERE PHOTOGRAPHY AND 
POLITICS COLLIDE.
MENT AL  HEAL TH  SER VICES
W.   SOCCER   DOMINA TEPEER  LISTENING,  LACK  THEREOF
third  straight  victor yOPINION, P AGE 4
sports,  P age  12
FORECAST
VERBATIM
ONE DAY , THAT 
RECATEGORIZATION OF 
TAMPONS AS NECESSITY 
WILL COME. SEPT. 13 WAS 
NOT THAT DAY , AND FOR THE 
SAKE OF THE STATE’S FISCAL 
RESPONSIBILITIES, THAT 
IS OKAY.”
- Guardian Editorial Board
THE NECESSITY OF TAMPONS
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
LIGHTS AND SIRENS  .......3
RIGHT TO REACH OUT  .....4
LION KING  ....................... 6
SUDOKU  ....................... 10
M. SOCCER  ................... 11WEEKEND,  P AGE  9
PHOTO BY HAZEL LEUNG / UCSD GUARDIAN
THURSDAY
H 76 L 67FRIDAY
H 74 L 65
SATURDAY
H 73 L 65SUNDAY    
H 70 L 64
UCSD Chancellor Pradeep 
Khosla has been appointed to the 
National Advisory Council on 
Innovation and Entrepreneurship, 
U.S. Secretary of Commerce Penny 
Pritzker announced in a press 
release on Sept. 19. NACIE, as 
part of the Economic Development 
Administration Office of Innovation 
and Entrepreneurship, provides 
suggestions for programs and 
policies intended to make American 
businesses and workplaces more 
competitive internationally. 
Secretary Pritzker specified the 
role of NACIE in her press release, 
stating that the council is a way 
for the Department of Commerce 
to create policies which take into 
consideration the views of those working in the private sector. 
“The members of NACIE provide 
important counsel to the Department 
of Commerce on the types of 
federal policies that will support 
entrepreneurship, innovation and 
job-driven workforce training, all 
of which are critical to American 
competitiveness, ” Secretary Pritzker 
said. “ As ‘ America’s Innovation 
Agency, ’ we value the expertise of 
our private sector partners and 
appreciate the opportunity to 
incorporate their views into our 
policymaking process. ”
Chancellor Khosla was selected 
from over 200 applicants, along with 
30 other appointees from non-profits, 
the private sector and academia.
According to Senior Director of 
Marketing and Communications 
Judy Piercey, Chancellor Khosla was 
nominated for the position and is honored to be chosen.
“[Chancellor Khosla] is honored 
to be part of this group that is charged 
with identifying and recommending 
solutions to issues critical to driving 
the innovation economy, ” Piercey 
told the UCSD Guardian.
In a statement released by the 
university, Chancellor Khosla 
explained that his participation 
in NACIE allows him to exchange 
thoughts with other notable leaders.
“Entrepreneurship and 
innovation are integral to the culture 
at UC San Diego, ” Chancellor Khosla 
said. “Being a member of NACIE 
offers a valuable opportunity to 
share ideas with a prestigious group 
of leaders to help make America 
more competitive globally. ”
According to Secretary UCSD Professor 
Awarded 
$1.5M Medical 
Research Grant SCIENCE
The funds will go towards 
studying biofilms and 
exploring their role in shielding 
bacteria from antibiotics.
BY   L i sa  C h i k
Senior Staff Writer
UCSD microbiology professor 
Gürol Süel was named a Howard 
Hughes Medical Institute-Simons 
Faculty Scholar last Thursday. 
He will receive $1.5 million over 
five years to aid his research on 
organized bacterial communities 
called biofilms, which have a high 
resilience against antibiotics. Süel’s 
findings suggest that ion channels 
mediate electrical cell-to-cell 
signaling, which coordinates the 
bacteria’s behavior in a process 
similarly performed by neurons in 
the brain.
William McGinnis, dean of 
the Division of Biological Sciences 
at UCSD, praised Süel for his 
achievements. 
“This is a notable honor for an 
extraordinary young professor who has 
made paradigm-shifting discoveries in 
the past few years, ” McGinnis told the 
UCSD Guardian.
Süel received his Ph.D in molecular 
biophysics at University of Texas 
Southwestern while challenging the 
traditional view of protein function, 
and was the first to collect direct 
evidence that molecular randomness 
can determine cell fate outcomes. 
He expanded his focus to bacterial 
biofilms and explained that the grant 
will allow for further elaboration on 
past findings.
“This generous funding from the 
HHMI and Simons Foundation will 
allow my group to dedicate personnel 
and resources to pursue new research 
directions that emerged from our 
recent discovery of electrical signaling 
in bacterial communities, ” Süel told 
the Guardian.
The foundation selected 84 faculty 
scholars from 43 institutions and 
over 1,400 applicants across America. 
According to the Faculty Scholars 
Program, the cumulative five-year 
grants provide between $600,000 
to $1.8 million, which cover costs 
including partial salary for faculty, 
salary for lab personnel, equipment, 
supplies, travel and publications.
For the first time, the Bill & 
Melinda Gates Foundation and the 
Simons Foundation collaborated with 
this program to support the pursuit 
of scientific discoveries by researchers 
early in their careers. Süel noted that 
the award spotlights the achievements 
of scientists at UCSD and will have a 
direct impact on students. 
“This recognition by the HHMI 
and Simons Foundation highlights 
that UCSD has some of the nation’s Transportation Services Launch 
Ride-Sharing Program for Faculty
UCSD ProRide, a pilot ride-sharing program 
introduced by UCSD Transportation Services on 
Sept. 19, offers faculty members free, on-demand 
transportation around campus without leaving a carbon 
footprint. Using a new fleet of electric Smart Cars, ProRide 
logs real-time ride requests in an online queue, then 
dispatches drivers to take faculty members on campus from 
their location to their desired destination. 
Responding to an increasingly precarious parking 
situation, ProRide was spurred as a way to “improve 
parking as well as find sustainable and efficient ways to 
move people around campus, ” Curt Lutz, the marketing 
manager of the Alternative Transportation initiative, told 
the UCSD Guardian. 
Due to ongoing construction projects including the 
extension of the San Diego Metropolitan Transit System’s 
trolley route — expected to be completed in 2021 — 
ProRide is one of many solutions Transportation Services 
hopes to implement in order to lighten the burden on 
students and staff members who commute. “Transportation Services is continually looking for 
creative ways to meet the needs of the campus, ” Lutz said. 
“ProRide can get faculty where they need to be — teaching 
a class or attending a meeting, for example — without 
generating unnecessary traffic or having to find parking. ” 
Professor Seth Lerer, a distinguished professor 
of literature, told the Guardian that, while parking is a 
challenge, ProRide will aid the faculty in specialized ways, 
like ensuring that staff members can travel from one end 
of UCSD’s expansive campus to another without being late.
“The issue is not just parking. It’s getting from one part 
of campus to another, often in short windows of time, ” Lerer 
said. “For someone like me, who often teaches more than 
one class on the same day, [ProRide] would be a great help 
in getting from class to class. ”
Currently, the program is only servicing parking 
structures, bus stops along the campus loop and the UC San 
Diego Health hospital. Transportation Services will halt the 
ProRide program indefinitely on Dec. 9 to evaluate the 
“effectiveness of the program” and decide if they should B y  Ma tthew  Zamudio    Contributing WriterQT FEST
Chancellor Khosla Appointed to National Advisory Council
Members of the Council advise the Department of Commerce and suggest programs and policies.See RIDES , page 3
UCSD
Lauren Hol t
Associate News Editor
See GRANT , page 3 See KHOSLA , page 3CAMPUS
The LGBT Resource Center hosted its QT Fest on Sept. 28 to welcome returning and incoming students to UCSD.
Photo by Christian Duarte / UCSD Guardian2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , SEPTEMBER 29, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEWS
AVERAGE CAT By Christina Carlson
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. alll the gays
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Caroline Lee
Marketing Director
Peter McInnis
Training and Development Manager
Allison Kubo
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Tina Butoiu
Jacky To
Marcus Thuillier
Maria Sebas
Lauren Holt
Quinn Pieper
Dev Jain
Oliver Kelton
Sam Velazquez
Naftali Burakovsky
Brittney Lu
Christian Duarte
Joselynn Ordaz
Aleya Zenieris
Kenji Bennett
Ayat Amin
Christina Carlson
Sophia Huang
Sage Schubert ChristianEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
 
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Multimedia Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editors
Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Aleya Zenieris, Quinn Pieper
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim, Alicia Ho, Lisa Chik
Editorial Assistants
Nathaniel Walker, Lisa Chik, Alex Wu, Miguel ShekerThe Department of Defense has awarded UCSD Scripps Institute 
of Oceanography a $29.3 Million cost reimbursement contract to 
support the overhaul of the Roger Revelle research ship. 
Built in 1996, the Roger Revelle is a general-purpose 
oceanographic research vessel that Scripps operates under a 
charter agreement with the Office of Naval Research. In addition, 
the ship operates worldwide as a shared-use facility within the 
University-National Oceanographic Laboratory System (UNOLS). 
The ship hosts the Hydrographic Doppler Sonar System (HDSS), 
a one-of-a-kind hull-mounted long-range dual-frequency Doppler 
sonar, which measures current shear at much higher resolution than commercially-available Acoustic Doppler Current Profilers 
(ADCPs).  
Roger Revelle, the ship’s namesake, served as the director of 
Scripps from 1951 to 1964 and aided in the establishment of the 
UCSD campus in 1960.  
The ship has embarked on a number of expedition, including a 
six-year deployment that lasted from December 2006 to November 
2012. During this time, the ship covered 338,000 nautical miles and 
was involved in 86 scientific research missions.
The overhaul will take place in San Diego and is expected to be 
completed on Sept. 30, 2019.UCSD Receives $29.3 Million to Overhaul Research VesselIN BRIEF    WRITTEN BY
MARIA SEBAS //  NEWS EDITOR
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGsee more at
Correction:  On Sept. 26 the UCSD Guardian misidenti -
fied Professor Lea Davis as Professor Lane Davis in the “UCSD 
Researchers Help Determine Loneliness to Be a Heritable Trait. ” 
The article has been edited to include the correct name online. SEND LETTERS TO 
THE EDITOR 
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGPritzker’s press release, the Office 
of Innovation and Entrepreneurship 
looked for members who represented 
various demographics, industries and locations, and appointees were 
chosen based on “demonstrated 
expertise and experience in the areas 
of innovation, entrepreneurship and 
employer-driven talent development. ” 
Formed in 2010, NACIE holds meetings four times per year, with 
members serving two-year terms.best scientists and faculty [who] are 
leaders in their fields, ” Süel said. 
“Students at UCSD will directly 
benefit by having access to courses 
and training opportunities with top 
scientists in the nation. ”
At the core of Süel’s studies are 
molecular and cellular interactions 
that can create new dynamics in 
microbial systems and improve 
bacterial fitness, which involves 
quantitative biology approaches used 
in collaboration with mathematical 
modeling. According to the Süel 
laboratory, modeling helps to integrate 
molecular, single cell and population-
level scales together in order to uncover fundamental principles 
of bacterial physiology, and, more 
recently, bacterial electrophysiology. 
The discoveries reveal an unexpected 
functional link between microbiology 
and neuroscience.
Süel and his team work to examine 
long-range communication within 
communities of densely packed 
bacterial cells. These biofilms can form 
thin layers, in the same way as tartar 
on teeth, which are very resistant to 
chemicals and antibiotics.
Previously, Süel found that biofilms, 
like human societies, are able to resolve 
conflicts within their community of 
bacterial cells. His team discovered 
that this interaction is made possible 
by communication over long distances based on electrical signaling.
“In this way, the community of 
bacteria within biofilms appears to 
function almost like a ‘microbial 
brain’ , ” Süel told UCSD News Center.
Süel earned an undergraduate 
degree and a master’s from the Middle 
East Technical University in Ankara, 
Turkey. After completing his Ph.D. Süel 
worked in a laboratory at California 
Institute of Technology. He began 
his career at UCSD in 2012 and also 
serves as the associate director of the 
San Diego Center for Systems Biology, 
which is part of the National Institutes 
of Health’s biomedical research efforts. expand service routes. Lutz told the 
Guardian that there are not yet plans 
to provide transportation to any off-
campus locations.
“The service could be expanded to 
include other areas of campus such as 
Scripps Institution of Oceanography, ” 
he added.
In June, UCSD paid $600,000 for 
50 electric Smart Cars to replace an 
aging fleet of Priuses and gasoline 
vehicles, three of which have been allocated to the ProRide program. 
The purchase is part of UCSD’s effort 
to reach carbon neutrality by 2025, 
a goal that the UC Office of the 
President set in 2013. 
For faculty members like Professor 
Lerer, having the option to utilize 
an alternative transportation service 
like ProRide encourages further eco-
friendly choices.
“ProRide might thus be an 
incentive for me to find alternate 
ways of getting to campus and, once on campus, to get from class to class 
or meeting to meeting in a timely and 
relaxing way, ” he said.
In its pilot phase, ProRide suggests 
that faculty members request a ride 
15-20 minutes before their desired 
arrival time, and even earlier during 
peak hours from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. 
Faculty members can request a ride 
by phone, computer or mobile device. NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , SEPTEMBER 29, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
LIGHTS & SIRENSLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edu.
Monday, Sept. 26
2:43 a.m. Excessive Alcohol: 
Report of male subject down in 
roadway. Transported to hospital.
8:00 a.m. to 9:30 a.m. Vandalism:  
Unknown suspect(s) vandalized 
multiple door lock mechanisms, 
damage $3,200.00.  Report taken.
11:15 a.m. Collision with Injury: 
Bicyclist vs. tow truck, bicyclist 
transported to hospital. Report 
taken.
5:22 p.m. Citizen Contact:  
Lost phone tracked near SSRB. 
Gone on arrival.
4:30 p.m. to 6:00 p.m. Burglary 
to Vehicle:  Unknown suspect(s) 
broke into victim’s vehicle and 
stole backpack containing several 
personal items; damage $254.95, 
loss $420.00. Report taken.
9:11 p.m. Unknown Injury Accident:  
Report of bicyclist down. Gone on 
arrival.
9:17 p.m. Injury: 
Young adult female fainted twice 
after cutting finger while preparing 
food. Service provided.
11:54 p.m. Marijuana Contact: 
Residential Security Officer 
requesting pickup of found 
marijuana. Marijuana impounded.
Tuesday, Sept. 27
12:11 a.m. Welfare Check: 
Report of two subjects climbing 
down from top floor to Pangea Dr. 
Gone on arrival.
12:24 a.m. Excessive Alcohol:  
Report of intoxicated adult male 
lying on sidewalk, semi-conscious. 
Transported to hospital.
1:05 a.m. Information: Price Center
Entrance doors not closing. Referred to other UCSD 
department.
2:30 a.m. Suspicious Person: 
Tenaya Hall. Report of suspicious 
intoxicated male student who had 
been aggressive and pushed another 
male student.  Report taken.
4:54 a.m. Suspicious Person: Blake Hall
Sleeper in commuter lounge. 
Checks OK.
7:23 a.m. Citizen Contact: Report 
of non‐affiliate who is attempting 
to enroll in classes, continuously 
attempting to contact reporting 
party via coming into office, emails 
and telephone calls. Information 
only.
2:01 p.m. Misdemeanor Shoplifting:  
Bookstore. Three adult males stole 
large quantity of books, loss of over 
$1000.00.  Report taken.
5:18 p.m. Information: Lot 604
Vehicle with back window broken 
out. Information only.
6:49 p.m. Attempt to Contact: 
Reporting party unable to locate or 
contact student intern.  Checks OK.
10:33 p.m. Marijuana Contact: 
Residential Security Officer 
requesting pickup of found 
marijuana.  Marijuana impounded.
Unknown time. Injury:  Injured 
bicyclist was involved in collision 
with another bicyclist at unknown 
location; reporting party believes 
other involved party provided a 
false phone number.  Report taken.
Unknown time. Citizen Contact: 
Warren Student Activity C enter
Report of possible sexual assault. 
Report taken.
— JACKY TO
Managing Editor▶ RIDES,  from page 1
▶ GRANT,  from page 1
▶ KHOSLA,  from page 1UCSD Paid $600,000 for 50 Smart Cars to Replace Aging Vehicles
Study Reports Biofilms Resolve Conflict in Bacterial Cell Communities
Khosla’s Term on National Advisory Council to Expire After Two YearsMa tthew Zamudio   mzamudi@ucsd.edureaders can contact
Lisa  chik   lchik@ucsd.edureaders can contact
Lauren  hol t   lcholt@ucsd.edureaders can contact4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , SEPTEMBER 29, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
QUINN PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
When it comes to discussing 
mental health, less is never more. 
Last spring, when Northern 
Michigan State student Katerina 
Klawes sought counseling from 
the university after being sexually 
assaulted, less is what she received. 
According to the Foundation for 
Individual Rights in Education, 
administrators specifically urged 
her via email to “refrain from 
discussing these issues with other 
students” and insisted she must 
not share her “suicidal or self-
destructive thoughts” with peers. 
Five months later, as similar 
emails began to circulate online, 
The Miners’ Journal reported that 
administrators admitted that as 
many as 30 students per semester 
were sent similar emails. Between the emails, the call from students 
to end the silence-coercing 
policy, and the university’s recent 
announcement of a new mental 
health services task force, it took 
more than a year for administration 
to restore its student body with the 
basic right to reach out without 
consequence.
  There is no context in which 
jeopardizing students’ speech 
rights and endangering their lives 
is either reasonable or necessary. 
Despite UCSD’s own shortcomings 
in accessible mental health services 
— waiting times as long as four 
weeks, low faculty-to-student ratios, 
a lack of diversity among CAPS 
staff — such an outdated  policy 
seems foreign to this campus. 
Welcome Week presentations included CAPS staff informing 
students of counseling available on 
campus; calls for improving mental 
health services had their place 
across A.S. Council candidates’ 
platforms during last year’s election. 
Additionally, psychologists took 
to a tent last year as students 
were encouraged to fill out a 
questionnaire, have a Krispy Kreme 
donut and receive their own mental 
health consultation.
 At the same time, knowing 
these services exist is not the same 
as having access to a campus-wide 
discussion on mental health.
 When a Sixth College student 
committed suicide last year, days 
passed with the student body 
remaining unaware of the incident 
or confused about what happened. The problem lies not with what 
announcement was made but 
instead with the type of dialogue 
that emerged  as a result. Although 
a forum was held soon afterwards 
to engage students in a dialogue 
wherein they were encouraged to 
be speakers and listeners on the 
subject of mental health — roles 
that NMU students were explicitly 
prohibited from taking — it was 
small, unpublicized and insufficient.
UCLA ’s two-year-old All of Us 
campaign exemplifies a type of 
program that can bring thorough, 
multifaceted discussions of 
mental health to the forefront. By 
involving students, faculty and 
campus organizations like the 
V-Day Movement and the Muslim 
Student Association, students were presented with a large but still 
personal discussion. By addressing 
more invasive mental illnesses as 
well as minor stressors, students 
were invited to discuss things from 
across the spectrum. 
  Mental health is clearly a 
significant factor in students’ 
academic success and life. Even with 
broader strides, like the UC Office 
of the President’s announcement to 
increase funding for mental health 
services from $40 million to $58 
million by 2018-2019, the freedom 
to reach out without explicit threat 
from administration is something 
that UCSD students — unlike NMU 
students — have. Nonetheless, there 
is a need and an opportunity for a 
more widespread effort to address the 
entire spectrum of mental health.ILLUSTRATION BY SAM XU
A university recently came under fire after it threatened disciplinary action 
against students seeking to speak about their suicidal thoughts. Though 
UCSD faces less archaic obstacles with regards to its mental health 
services, it’s vital that we utilize peer listening and encourage involvement on 
a widespread level – one unseen thus far at our campus.
On Sept. 13, Gov. Jerry Brown 
vetoed a package of seven bills that 
sought to create tax breaks. Among 
them was AB 1561, a bipartisan 
bill that would have made feminine 
hygiene products exempt from sales 
tax beginning in 2017 and established 
them as necessities instead of luxuries 
in the eyes of tax law. Had Gov. 
Brown signed this legislation, it 
would have been a huge step forward 
for women throughout California, 
because as anyone who gets a period 
knows, there is nothing luxurious about it. The elimination of the 
so-called “tampon tax” would have 
acknowledged that tampons, pads 
or other products are a requirement 
for women and would have sent the 
message that addressing women’s 
health issues is as important to the 
state of California as providing 
the elderly with walkers, the sick 
with prescription medication and, 
apparently, men with Viagra. Y et, 
however unfair taxing tampons is, the 
issues addressed by this legislation 
are not as pressing as the state’s other needs, and the financial consequences 
of signing the bill outweigh the 
largely symbolic victory it would have 
accomplished for women’s rights — at 
least for the time being. 
In his veto message regarding AB 
1561 and the six other tax break bills, 
Gov. Brown explains that “In total, 
these bills would reduce revenues by 
about $300 million through 2017–18 
… Tax breaks are the same as new 
spending — they both cost the 
General Fund money. ” According to 
Assemblymember Cristina Garcia (D-58), California receives $20 
million in revenue from taxes on 
feminine hygiene products each 
year. When it comes to balancing the 
budget and providing programs and 
state agencies with the funds to serve 
Californians, that $20 million needs 
to be accounted for. Every dollar 
counts in a state that does not even 
have an ongoing fund to build new 
or updated school facilities and relies 
instead on regular statewide bond Tampons are certainly no 
luxury item, and they should 
not be taxed as such. With 
California’s budget constraint, 
though, the new spending 
necessary for replacing a tax 
break is not a feasible option 
this year. Instead, removing a 
luxury tax from tampons must 
be considered earlier on by 
Brown in the coming years.
See TAMPONS, page 5Let Them Seek Help
why are tamp ons a luxury item but not viagra
why are tamp ons not getting a tax break jerry
why are tamp ons costing me bills on billswhy are tamp
why are tamp ourines so loud
Press Enter to search.ILLUSTRATION BY QUINN PIEPER
Being A Necessity, 
Tampons Should 
Receive Tax 
Break: Just
         Not This YearOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , SEPTEMBER 29, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
LIKE US ON
 FACEBOOK
facebook.com/ucsdguardian
Get Your New School Year
U-Pass Sticker Today!Your Ticket to Ride!
Student fees provide unlimited rides for
students on MTS buses* and Trolley and
NCTD buses and SPRINTER!
Between Gilman
Parking Office
and Pepper
Canyon HallOutside
Bookstore at
Library WalkGilman
Parking Office
7–9 a.m.
weekdays except
Wednesdays,
and 4–5 p.m.
weekdaysCurrent registration/enrollment required. 
  *Rural and Rapid  Express routes excluded. 
Confirm dates & times, and get 
more information at u-pass.ucsd.edu  Weekdays
Starting 
Monday 
9/19/2016Weekdays
9 a.m. to 4 p.m.As needed per 
signs at Gilman 
Parking OfficeiCommutesd.comOctober is 
Rideshare Month!
Register today 
for a chance to win prizesmeasures to finance such projects. 
Given this — and the fact that the 
elimination of the tampon tax would 
barely have a financial impact on 
most women — the passing of such 
a tax break does not carry enough 
urgency to reallocate $20 million 
without serious consideration as to 
how that would affect other aspects 
of the budget. There are those, like 
Assemblymember Garcia, who 
might suggest that the tampon tax is 
a financial burden on women, and 
that they, especially those who are 
low-income, cannot afford to wait any 
longer to have the tampon tax slashed. 
However, even if the tampon tax is 
never eliminated in California, the 
amount women spend on the tax itself 
is relatively insignificant. According 
to the W ashington Post, the average 
cost of a box of tampons is $7. With 
a statewide tax rate of 7.5 percent 
women spend approximately 52 cents 
per box and a mere $6.30 per year on 
the tampon tax.  In practice, it was better for the state that Gov. Brown 
vetoed this piece of legislation because 
it was the fiscally responsible thing 
to do.
Gov. Brown almost certainly did 
not veto AB 1561 because he objected 
to the elimination of the tampon tax 
as a concept, but rather because he 
would have been unable to place the 
tax break in the context of the 2017-
2018 budget. Had he signed the bill, 
Gov. Brown would have prematurely 
eliminated $20 million in revenue 
for which he would either need to 
find a new source of funding or cut 
money from another program or 
agency. In his veto statement, Gov. 
Brown notes that “[the tax breaks] 
must be considered during budget 
deliberations so that all spending 
proposals are weighed against each 
other at the same time. ” From this, it 
is apparent that Gov. Brown would 
be open to revisiting the idea of 
eliminating the tampon tax at a 
time wherein he would be able to 
incorporate it into his plan to balance 
the budget, and find another source of revenue to offset the $20 million 
loss without compromising critical 
government services. However, 
now that the issue of the tax break 
has been raised and is so widely 
supported, Gov. Brown owes it to 
Californians to make a serious effort 
to eliminate the tampon tax within 
the next fiscal year. While Gov. 
Brown certainly did nothing to help 
women’s rights by vetoing AB 1561, 
he made the decision that was the best 
for the state financially and ensured 
that government-provided services, 
like public education, disability 
and unemployment benefits and  
healthcare, do not take a monetary 
hit. 
The elimination of the tampon 
tax is a necessary step toward gender 
equality, and although it will be an 
almost purely symbolic change, that 
in no way diminishes its importance. 
One day, that recategorization of 
tampons as a necessity will come. 
Sept. 13 was not that day, and for the 
sake of the state’s fiscal responsibilities, 
that is acceptable for now.   ▶ TAMPONS from page 4ILLUSTRATION BY DAVID JUAREZ
PrescriptionViagraWEEKEND
ARTS   |   FOOD & DRINK   |   LIV ING   |   FILM  &  TV   |   MUSIC   |   THINGS  TO  DOA&E EDITOR // SAM VELAZQUEZ
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // BRITTNEY LU
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Changing media is a risky 
bet. For every “Godfather, ” 
carefully cultivated by a 
Coppola from Puzo’s prose, there’s 
an adaptation of “Transformers” 
with a budget equivalent to the 
GDP of a small European nation. 
Nostalgia is undoubtedly at the 
forefront of this “reboot mania” 
shift, where studios seek to mine 
the most out of each property: 
a Trojan horse that allows 
sentimentality to be exploited for 
cheap cashouts. Julie Taymor’s 
adaptation of “The Lion King” 
plays the game right by paying 
great attention to the intricacies of 
the theatre and creating a hyper-
specific vision that stretches the 
technical boundaries of what can 
be done on stage.
Adapting a popular animation 
classic that in itself was an adaptation of a much older English 
classic (“Hamlet”) seems a bit 
like overdoing the trusty bard’s 
work, but the timeless themes of 
betrayal and family allow for the 
true magic to take form through 
raw execution. That’s why this 
story worked both onstage in the 
1500s and why it was still capable 
of making five-year-olds cry in 
1994’s finest theaters. A return to 
the stages where it once roamed in 
its youth can even be seen as (but 
what else?) the circle of life.
Held high with first-rate 
performances from a great cast, but 
especially with Mark Campbell’s 
hammy smarm as Scar, the play 
is confident enough to highlight 
the marvels of elaborate stage and 
costume design without detracting 
attention from essential elements. 
Featuring a live orchestra and a 134-person team, the result is an 
operative alchemy that shows how 
a well-greased village of people can 
meet the demands of a big budget play 
to create an ambitious experience.
This is a feat of human 
engineering. The illusion of 
movement in livelier scenes, free 
to transform from a run in the 
grass into a spectacular dance 
number at a moment’s notice, is a 
sight to behold because there’s a 
marriage of technical mastery and 
sleight-of-hand that’s so involving 
it lets the imagination take a break. 
Actors contort their bodies and 
take control of whimsically crafted 
costumes. Everything else succeeds, 
in no small part, to attentive live 
drummers and rich voices.
A young Simba, played by both 
BJ Covington and Julian Rivera-
Summerville, spends his youth in the 
African savannah as Mufasa’s prodigal 
son. The boyish charms of Simba are necessary for the more lighthearted 
fare in the show. Minor quibbles in 
Covington’s and Rivera-Summerville’s 
performances are easily overlooked by 
their “aw shucks” factor and incredible 
physicality (seeing a 10-year-old 
backflip is a surreal moment). 
Although Simba runs around as 
freely as he takes adults’ warnings, 
that laissez-faire attitude towards 
perspectives much wiser than his own 
is manipulated by Scar — the catalyst 
for Simba’s necessary journey.
The Elephant Graveyard 
sequence is subject to a few weak 
numbers that chip away at the 
darkness instead of relying on a 
simple, bare-bones number, and as 
a result this throws off the precise 
balance of theatricality. Playing 
to a 10-year-old’s sense of humor 
reeks of a market-driven yearning 
for social relevance — a creative 
misstep for Disney despite the 
play’s classical trappings. Some scenes ended in a quick joke or 
two about other contemporary 
Disney properties (like an ill-
advised refrain from “Let It Go”), 
but Timon and Pumbaa’s presence 
was more than enough for proper 
comedic relief.
“The Lion King” is rarified 
comfort food — not exciting 
enough to make us rethink any 
of the preconceptions we have of 
the property, but exciting enough 
to stir up and capitalize on our 
videotape nostalgia.
— Sam  velazquez
A&E Editor
PHOTO BY MATTHEW MURPHY /DISNEY
PLA Y   REVIEW
The  lion  king B+Directed by   Julie Taymor
Written by   Irene Mecchi, Jonathan Roberts, Linda Woolverton
Starring   Mark Campbell, Gerald Ramsey, Buyi Zama
Runs  September 7 - October 2
Location   San Diego Civic Theatre
Chance  the  rapper
At   Cal  coast  thea tre 
Concert Date September 15With vivid lights, gaudy graphics and a wide assortment of strange, 
Sesame Street-style puppets, Chance gave his fans a heaven of a show.
Disney’s pre-Y2K foray into the world of theatre 
proves a success through ambition and execution.CONCERT   REVIEWWhereas studio-recorded 
albums serve to 
showcase a musician’s 
vision, concerts usually exist for 
audiences to connect with the 
performer’s personality. At Chance 
the Rapper’s concert, however, the 
crowd got a heavy dose of both.
While his set started off quite 
typically — with high-energy 
renditions of “ Angels” and 
“Blessings, ” both of which played 
better live than recorded  — the 
crowd quickly realized the type 
of night they were in for after the 
song ended. Rather than start the 
next track, Carlos — a human-
sized, introspective puppet lion, 
voiced by comedian HaHa Davis 
and controlled by someone in a 
black leotard — invaded the stage 
and demanded Chance remember 
the old stuff. While slightly 
confused, Chance attempted to 
oblige Carlos’ stern request by 
performing a string of his past hits 
from “ Acid Rap” and even “10Day. ” 
While most of these were as jumpy 
and enjoyable as one would expect, 
a high-tempo version of “Cocoa 
Butter Kisses” stood out as being 
too jarring of a departure from the 
original’s laid-back nature to be 
thoroughly enjoyed.
As the concert moved forward, 
Carlos kept showing up in between 
songs to plead Chance to “take 
it back, Big Fella!” Chance, still 
trying to decipher Carlos’ cryptic message, answered by playing the 
most nostalgia-themed tracks on 
his resume: “Juke Jam” and “Same 
Drugs. ” While “Juke Jam” was a 
nice slow break from the otherwise 
heart-racing concert, “Same Drugs” 
pulled the show one step deeper 
into the strange and weird. To 
help him sing the track — a song 
about a lover, “Wendy, ” outpacing 
him in growth and maturity — he 
brought out puppet number two 
of the night: a life-sized, blue-
haired Wendy. Sitting at the piano, 
the duet performed the track in a 
heartwarming yet laugh-inducing 
manner, concluding with Wendy 
flying away as Chance chases her 
and begs her to stay on the ground 
with him. That, unfortunately, was 
the peak of the night’s weirdness. 
However, that doesn’t mean 
Carlos was gone. In fact, he 
persisted throughout the whole 
night, even through Chance’s two-
chorus, one-verse marathon of 
songs, including party anthem “No 
Problem, ” masterful Kanye-gospel 
track “Ultralight Beam” and, as 
a pleasant surprise, unofficially 
released gem “Grown Ass Kid. ” 
Then came the part of the night 
everyone was waiting for: the 
beloved “Sunday Candy. ” Usually 
serving as his encore, Chance 
instead made it, in movie terms, 
the beginning of his third act, 
consisting wholly of his holiest, 
choir-heavy tracks. And that’s when Carlos finally showed satisfaction: 
“That’s what I’m talkin’ about, Big 
Fella!” All along, the audience 
realized, when Carlos asked for 
“the old stuff ” , he wasn’t calling for 
young Lil Chano from 79th. He was 
thinking way further back than that 
— the word of God. 
While this was meant to be the 
climax of the show — Chance’s 
big message for all the kids to take 
home to their friends and family 
— it instead felt like a mistake, the 
reason being that these tracks are 
simply not among his best. “How 
Great, ” “Finish Line / Drown” and 
“Blessings” (the second one) are all 
solid songs to rest and relax to, but 
they are certainly not closers. 
Once encore time came around, 
there was only one track left to play 
from “Coloring Book”: the smooth 
and simple “Summer Friends. ” And 
with a sample of one of the year’s 
best songs “Friends” by Francis and 
the Lights, who had a mesmerizing 
performance as the concert’s 
opener, it was inevitable that he 
would come out and bust his 
signature moves. And that he did, 
except in his own puppet lion suit 
and with Chance dancing alongside 
him — a truly memorable way to 
end a wildly unpredictable concert. 
—   Jacky  to
Senior Staff Writer PHOTO COURTESY OF CHICAGO TRIBUNEWEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , SEPTEMBER 29, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
TV   REVIEW
Starring   Rami Malek, Christian Slater, Carly Chaikin
Runs   Full Season Available on USA Network
Created by   Sam Esmail B+
The first moments of our 
return to Elliot’s warped 
world guide us through a 
life of tedious routine: wake up, 
eat, activity one, activity two, sleep, 
rinse and repeat. We watch his 
desperate fight against psychosis 
via repetition, confiding in the 
viewer his fear that breaking the 
cycle will once again awaken his 
unstable alter ego. 
Ye t  out s i d e  of  E l l i ot’s  s e l f -
proclaimed “infinite loop of 
insanity, ” we witness the broken 
world he left behind. The United 
States economy is left in disarray 
following season one’s climactic 
cyber-attack on the villainous E 
Corp. Fingers are pointed at any 
possible suspect: the hacker group 
fsociety, other hackers and former E Corp bigwig Tyrell Wellick, 
whose mysterious disappearance 
renders him an enigma. 
Much like season one, each 
scene is as oblique as ever. Yet as 
the season unfolds, this cryptic 
nature starts running constant, 
wherein every other scene serves as 
setup instead of payoff. The viewer 
is then left with more questions 
than answers, desperately hoping 
for resolution to at least one of the 
subplots while new ones stream 
incessantly into existence. And 
while deftly hiding plot points 
makes for intriguing television, 
too much of it leaves the audience 
feeling lost and confused.
Because the consequences of 
Elliot’s actions in season one ripple 
across the globe, this buildup is by necessity. Season two delves into 
regions of cutthroat politics and 
social chaos, where both the FBI 
and China become major players. 
It’s decidedly more ambitious, 
but often at the cost of narrative 
clarity. Reminiscent of the grand 
scale in “Game of Thrones, ” the 
show rapidly shifts between Elliot, 
new E Corp employee Angela, FBI 
agent Dom, fsociety figurehead 
Darlene, Tyrell’s wife Joanna and 
Dark Army leader Whiterose. Each 
thread is eventually woven together, 
but it does require a good amount 
of patience. And while the story 
is often fragmented, the pieces do 
coalesce into a satisfying, if not 
altogether conclusive finale.
Fortunately, creator Sam 
Esmail’s creative punch tightens the somewhat scattered season. 
The off-center cinematography 
and unique framing continues to 
shine, permeating each scene with 
claustrophobia and anxiety. Esmail’s 
use of music and transition, and 
even a throwback to ‘90s sitcoms, 
makes “Mr. Robot” one of the more 
imaginative shows on television 
right now.
Consistently strong 
performances don’t hurt either. 
Rami Malek, recently awarded an 
Emmy for his portrayal of Elliot 
in the first season, shows us a man 
even further entrenched in his 
own psychosis. Notable newcomer 
Joey Bada$$ is likewise impressive 
as Elliot’s new friend Leon, who 
occasionally muses on the perpetual 
struggle for existence, a prominent motif this season. What is it that 
you live and fight for? How do you 
control your future? Does life really 
matter? Here Esmail examines 
not only the darker reaches of the 
human psyche, from loss of identity 
to depression, but also touches 
upon broader topics in regards 
to religion and the ever-growing 
divides in wealth and power. 
At its strongest, “Mr. Robot” is an 
exploration of the human condition 
in a digital age. It’s a meditation on 
our vices, our reasons for being and 
how we live our increasingly tech-
dependent lives.
—   Derek  deng
Staff WriterPHOTO COURTESY OF USA NETWORK“The Magnificent 
Seven” is a truly 
magnificent and 
singular beast: a remake of a 
remake. Few films can lay claim to 
such a distinction; fewer still can 
be good in their own right. “Seven” 
falls into the latter category, 
because it cannot establish the 
proper pace of an adventure. 
Certainly, the scenery is 
accurately stark and almost 
hyperbolic, evocative of the 
shoestring-budget spaghetti 
Westerns of yesteryear. But 
a Western must breathe, 
must plausibly occupy the 
vast space of the screen and 
welcome the audience into the 
pleasant embrace of its fantasy. 
Instead, “The Magnificent 
Seven” lumbers about, the CGI and strangely airless design 
obscuring the passage of time.
When Emma Cullen (Haley 
Bennett) witnesses the death 
of her husband, Matthew 
(Matt Bomer), at the hands 
of the devious industrialist 
Bartholomew Bogue (Peter 
Sarsgaard), she is driven to seek 
vengeance. Bogue Mining has 
appropriated the town Rose 
Creek for development, and its 
inhabitants must submit and 
parcel out land to Bogue under 
pain of death. Mrs. Cullen 
is, naturally, opposed to this 
notion. So, in service of the 
plot, she takes upon herself the 
responsibility of seeking out 
mercenaries mad or desperate 
enough to defend her home. 
Serendipitously, the weary Sam Chisolm (Denzel 
Washington, the only cast 
member at ease with his role) 
gallops into town pursuing a 
bounty. When Mrs. Cullen begs 
his aid, Chisolm hesitates for a 
moment. But, noble hero that he 
is, Sam eventually relents, and 
accompanies Mrs. Cullen in her 
search for hired help. 
By and by, the eponymous 
seven gather: mad gambler 
Josh Faraday (Chris Pratt, 
accompanied by a southern 
accent best described as 
cringing), Goodnight 
Robicheaux (Ethan Hawke), Jack 
Horne (Vincent D’Onofrio), 
Billy Rocks (Byung-hun Lee), 
Vasquez (Manuel Garcia-Rulfo) 
and Red Harvest (Martin 
Sensmeier). The men argue and clash, but, following the spirit of 
action, they bond in the face of 
Bogue’ s higher evil.
An ensemble film is devilishly 
difficult to balance, and Fuqua 
is not equal to the task. Seven 
archetypal cowboys, a villain, 
and a token woman? A great 
deal of “The Magnificent Seven” 
is devoted to introductions and 
shoddy characterizations, and 
altogether too much movement. 
The characters ride to and fro, 
from town to town, so swiftly 
and calmly that any sense of 
distance is lost. The experience 
of the plains has no weight — the 
violence is tenderly sanitized with 
tasteful swerves of the camera. 
In contrast to its 
predecessors, “The Magnificent 
Seven” rarely captures the essence of its genre. Running 
at two hours and 13 minutes, 
“Seven” overstays its welcome. 
It’s a tawdry mishmash that does 
little more than regurgitate a 
40-year-old film plot. If you’ve 
already seen “Seven Samurai” 
(1954) or the English-language 
adaptation “Magnificent 
Seven” (1960), Fuqua offers no 
surprises and fewer pleasures. 
— Alicia Lepler
Staff Writer
PHOTO COURTESY OF SCREENRANTFILM   REVIEWThe  magnificent  seven
Tired and hobbled, “The Magnificent Seven” limps into theaters. 
Directed by   Antoine Fuqua
Starring   Denzel Washington, Chris Pratt, Ethan Hawke
Rated  PG-13
Release Date  Sept 23 C
Mr.  RObot (Season  2)
As “Mr. Robot’s” world expands, so does its focus. 8     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , SEPTEMBER 29, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  WEEKEND
Opening  
NightOpening last Friday night, Museum of Contemporary Art San 
Diego La Jolla’s newest addition, “The Uses of Photography: 
Art, Politics and the Reinvention of a Medium, ” is a vibrant 
collection of multimedia pieces centered on 1960–80s San Diego. 
Featuring video projections, hybrid photography, personal narratives, 
videos and protest pieces, “The Uses of Photography” is an artistic 
translation of the sociopolitical tension unique to the UCSD campus and 
American culture during a time of civil unrest and hegemonic dissent. 
Curator Jill Dawsey envisions that this exhibit would be able “to tell 
the story of a number of artists, clustered at UCSD during the 1970s 
… experimenting with photography in new and interesting ways” 
with emphasis not only on “the form of photography, but subjects in 
photography. ” Displays like Carrie Mae Weem’s critique on the highly 
controversial Moynihan report does just that. In Weem’s series, the 
audience receives a multisensory feel of what it means to be an “other” 
in the context of the stereotypical nuclear American family. Using an 
audiovisual presentation of family dynamics through black and white photography, text and recordings, 
Weems redefines what the family unit looks like while giving space and insight for the viewer to tackle with 
the sociological impacts of a master narrative. 
Dawsey goes on to say that “the photography becomes this kind of expanded hybrid medium … used 
in a way that best expresses the [artist’s] idea. ” For instance, Elizabeth Sisco’s installation, “Flashcards, ” 
incorporates text and photography to create a piece simulating Spanish vocabulary practice cards as 
part of her commentary on the border relationship between San Diego and Mexico. Positioned next to a 
provocative, ceiling-to-floor narrative on the lived experience of a socially deemed “illegal immigrant, ” this 
portion of the exhibit delves further into the complicated border flow between San Diego and its sister city, 
Tijuana. Questioning citizenship as well as what it means to be “ American, ” Sisco’s piece is a reflection of 
past sentiment and a projection of present public forum. 
The exhibit curates a climate in which all featured artists expose their work with a “social consciousness, [which Dawson] wishes we would have in more artists today. ” The presented art triggers a 
discussion about the harmonious blending of art usage in political movements, and perhaps, even a challenging proposition to increase appreciation for UCSD’s own current visual arts department. 
An example of blending academics, art and politics can be seen in a collection of UC Berkeley’s protest art during the Vietnam War; bold colors, shadowed silhouettes and propaganda text compose 
not only a visual art piece, but a platform on which student artists play their role in political expression. 
Essentially, Dawson hopes this exhibit blends the “questions of politics and social realities” through conceptual art. “The Uses of Photography” perfectly captures this vision. With compelling 
pieces acting as aesthetic dissent, this compilation of artwork at MCASD La Jolla comments on the integral use of art in politics, while furthering the role of the camera lens as one not solely 
for documentation, but argumentation and rebellion. Nonetheless, the exhibit is an absolute must-see (it helps that UCSD students get in for free), for both the artistic composition and             
sociopolitical message. 
“29 Arrests”- Fred Lonidier 1972
Courtesy of collection Museum 
of Contemporary Art San Diego 
Museum, purchased with funds 
from Lynn and Danah Fayman, by 
exchange and proceeds from MCASD 
Biennial Art Auction 2014
“Caught in the Act”- Eleanor Antin 
1973
Courtesy of Ronald Feldman Fine 
Arts, NY
“Boys Room”- Martha Rosler 
1967-72
From House Beautiful: 
Bringing the War Home 
Courtesy of artist and 
Mitchell-Innes and Nash, NY
“Welcome Home”- Carrie 
Mae Weems 1978-84
From Family Pictures 
and Stones courtesy of 
artist and Jack Shainman 
Gallery, NYBy Brittney Lu / Lifestyle Editor
“Untitled Slide Sequence”- Alan Sekula 
1972-2011
From Collection Museum of 
Contemporary Art San Diego purchased 
from funds by Danah and Lynn Fayman 
from 2012 Biennial Art AuctionWEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , SEPTEMBER 29, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
eataburrito.comDON CARLOS
 TACO SHOP
737 Pearl Street, La Jolla
AVAILABLE ON 
$5 off your
first order, use code eats - 4ilgd
V
D
T
E
H
V
B
S
E
J
B
O

P
S
HYOUR
NEWS
NOW!ArT  Inst alla tions    
with   S ymbolic   St a tements
By Brittney Lu / Lifestyle EditorIn MCASD’s newest collection, we’ve discovered what San Diego had to offer 
during the 1960-80s’ inclusion of art within a political narrative. So what about 
campus today? Read more to find out the impact of some of the pieces you may 
have passed by, but never quite pondered, have had.
Falling Star Another 
Snake Pathby Do Ho Suh, 2012
by Alexis Smith, 1992Iconic to the engineering buildings at Earl Warren College 
and a remarkable feat of architecture, design and visual 
imagineering, the Falling Star home is nestled atop of the 
Jacobs School of Engineering. Falling Star, while most 
renowned for being a creative mastery of engineering and 
innovation, is as socially meaningful as it is a physical 
manifestation of the impossible. Suh envisioned this piece to 
not only challenge the conventional boundaries of architecture, 
but to articulate the way one cultivates social belonging when 
displaced. As an international student from South Korea, Suh 
translates his psychological experience of redefining home 
into a physically lopsided house, symbolizing the challenges 
international students face when reconstructing familiarity 
and belonging. Through this piece, Suh’s personal journey 
of displacement becomes a monument for the collective 
experience many UCSD students and global citizens face.
Widely known as “the shortcut from the north side of campus to Warren 
Lecture Hall,” a closer look at the path reveals hexagonal scales, which 
from a panoramic vantage point resemble a serpent, winding themselves 
from the base of Geisel Library down to Warren Mall. A small garden of 
Eden rests in the middle of the path, adorned with fruits and a marbled 
bench quoting Thomas Gray. Further down, a large, inscribed “Paradise 
Lost” installation looms over the path. Convenient for the pedestrian, 
Snake Path does more than just help students cut across campus, but 
poses a question that disrupts the balance of intellect, innocence and 
education. Smith curates this piece with the intent to comment on 
creating thinkers, not just products of a confined education sys tem. Situated high above PC’s hub of food, students and activity is a mural 
installation of two clocks, surrounded by quotes: “another day, another 
night, another idea, another dream, another song, another fear, another 
job, another exam, another smile, another book, another sweater, 
another car, another love, another life. ” Easily mistaken as just another 
wall in PC, Kruger’s message is not to be missed. Another quote suggests 
that our lifetimes, and especially so as students, have become measured, 
not necessarily in experiences, but in repeated moments and growing 
pains that accompany university life. It challenges our use of time, and 
pushes back against the idea that the moments we have are not savored, 
but merely markings of the next “to-do” in life. 
Read/Write/Think/Dream
by John Baldessari, 2001Similarly to Kruger’s exhibit, Another, Baldessari’s addition to 
the entrance of Geisel, aims at revolutionizing what students are 
capable of in the mundane of routines. With the central library 
known as a hub of laborious study, Baldessari’s bold “read, write, 
think, dream” statement redefines Geisel to symbolize a place 
of thoughtful evolution and idealistic progressivism where the 
student is considered to be much more than one who absorbs 
information only to spit it out again on a blue book. Simple yet 
imploring the profound, Baldessari’s piece, much like the others 
— renowned or unfortunately passed by — curates an atmosphere 
on campus where the students are more than the university culture 
might define their identities to be. Commissioned By 
Stuart Collectionby Barbara Kruger, 2005
Photos by Hazel Leung10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , SEPTEMBER 29, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDS
LEGAL
Birth Defects Attorney At Your Service - 
Contact Us ASAP - NEWS ALERT: SEVERE 
WARNING ISSUED By The United States 
FDA (Food Drug Administration)! Popular 
antidepressants, SSRI’s and anti-seizure 
medications on the market today may pose 
serious side effects and permanent and 
potentially fatal birth defects in infants. 
If you think you or someone you know 
have experienced adverse effects or suf -
fered injuries after taking medications for; 
Depression Seizures Migraines Epilepsy 
Anxiety Disorder Or Many Others... CALL 
http://www.birthdefectsettlement.com 
at (866) 710-XXXX or fill out the form 
IMMEDIATELY to get the most current legal 
details about YOUR POSSIBLE MEDICAL 
CONDITIONS and what to do to GET com -
pensated. FREE Instant Case Review CALL 
(866) 710-XXXX NATIONWIDE ATTORNEY 
NETWORK AVAILABLE FOR OUTSIDE OF 
CALIFORNIA RESIDENTS - CALL (866) 710-
XXXX Listing ID: 308816627 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
Barrett Law Office - Attorney William J. 
Barrett graduated from Syracuse University 
College of Law and has been practicing since his admission to the New York State 
Bar in February of . His practice is focused 
in the fields of Family Law Matrimonial 
Divorce Law and the defense of individuals 
charged with crimes from felonies to traffic 
infractions.... Images and contact info on 
Advertigo website. Listing ID: 305157106 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Social Security DisabilitySSI - Been Denied 
NEVER Give Up Appeal Today Don t Give 
Up Thousands of dollars in backpay No Fee 
EVER unless you win Hearing scheduled No 
Attorney NEVER Go Al Free Attorney Advice 
Call for information () - Images and contact 
information on Advertigo website. Listing 
ID: 304329790 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
ELECTRONICS
Sony A3000 Camera w/Tripod and Sony 
Bag - $300. Literally new condition. Used 
a total of three times. I’m not a photog -
rapher. Just thought cameras were cool 
when I bought it and I never take photos. 
Including a tripod and Sony camera bag. 
Both bought separately. Text/call, but pre -
fer text because I work nights. Listing ID: 
306503231 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Tuff Pak Travel Container - $100. Perfect 
for tripods, light stand or whatever you 
need to ship. Professional travel case with 
wheels for easy transport. This is the only 
case to use for airline travel. It protects your 
valuable equipment and is easy to handle. 
Made from ABS plastic, this case is just 
about indestructible. Travel storage case 
is four feet tall and twelve inches in diam -
eter. It holds approximately six light stands. 
Listing ID: 306503235 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Photo and Video Lighting - $350. I have 
two pepper lights and one AR RI 300 plus 
lights with shutters and mounts. All three 
are working and are in attractive condition. 
They come with a pelican case and ballast. 
They all have bulbs and some lighting 
accessories. Listing ID: 306503233 at ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
FINANCIAL
Chapter 7 Bankruptcy $500  - Looking for 
Inexpensive Bankruptcy? At the VC Law 
Group, we offer free consultations and fees 
for no-asset Chapter 7 cases start at just 
$500.00. Please call our office at (858) 519-
7333 and speak to attorney Vik Chaudhry 
to set up your free consultation today. We 
are a debt relief agency. We help people 
file for bankruptcy relief under tListing ID: 305984001 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Flat Fee Eviction Lawyers - Landlords, do 
you need quick, efficient and affordable 
eviction legal services? We can help imme -
diately. At the VC Law Group, we can handle 
your eviction proceedings timely and cor -
rectly. Best of all, we offer flat fees. Dont 
hesitate to call (858) 519-7333 to speak 
with attorney Vik Chaudhry and to sched -
ule your free consultation today. Listing ID: 
305138482 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
No Risk Investment - save for your future!  
- Looking for a low to no risk way to invest 
a little money in this unstable economy 
and earn interest? Whether you are saving 
for college, a new car, home, retirement, 
etc. the stock market is a risky venture 
right now. Profitable Sunrise is an estab -
lished and stable company that helps small 
business start-ups and they offer a per -
sonal investment option. Sign up today 
and receive 2.17% on your investment. Its 
not a huge interest rate because there is 
0 risk and your investment is insured as 
backed up similar to how a bank would do 
it. Start with as little as $10 or go up and 
do a long haul investment ($500 minimum) 
for a higher interest rate. I started with 
just $15 and have earned $0.66 in two 
days. Once you make your investment back 
you can reinvest to continue earning more 
money. Visit https://www.profitablesunrise.
com/?upline=Jenashlock for more details! 
This is NOT a MLM company, a get rich 
quick scheme, or scam. Just a no risk invest -
ment opportunity to help save for your 
future. Listing ID: 308816626 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
tyour vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
FOL LOW US
@ucsdgua rdianComplete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies 
on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.ukLevel: 1234
SUDOKU
Successful S. Calif. 
Entrepreneur/angel investor 
seeking individuals to 
assist in the development 
of an exciting new startup. 
This startup is focused 
on building relationships 
between nonproﬁts and 
for-proﬁts under a unique 
business structure.
Individuals will work their choice 
of part time or full time and will 
work from home. Ideal candidates 
should have education and/or 
experience at least one of these 
areas:  marketing, business, ﬁnance 
and it is helpful if they understand 
how nonproﬁts/NGOs operate.  I 
am seeking individuals who are 
willing to work for equity only. If 
you understand that real wealth 
is built through equity ownership 
rather than a paycheck, I look 
forward to working with you.
Signed NDAs will be required and 
business summaries will be sent 
upon receipt of our signed NDA.
Please send inquires and/
or resumes to:  
bill@karmaconnected.comCLASSIFIEDSGuardian Classifieds are FREE for the UC San Diego community.
 www.ucsdguardian.org/classifieds
WANTED
If seen, please report to Hawkins P.D.
858-333-9612
or report to HAUNTED HOEDOWN
by October 7, 2016 • 9pm • Student CenterHAVE YOU SEEN THIS CHILD?
Wanted for multiple accounts of theft and trespassing,
suspect is approx. 12 years of age, female, short hair
wearing either hospital gown or yellow t-shirt 
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , SEPTEMBER 29, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
the finish line for UCSD. In the 
individual standings, Laura 
Aceves from Cal State San 
Bernardino won the race in 
17:47.94.
UCSD will host the Triton 
Classic for the 24th time on on 
Saturday, Oct. 8, with the race 
beginning at 8 a.m. on the North 
Campus field.Senior forward Sam Palano scored 
twice, once in each half, to lead the 
No. 21-ranked Tritons to a 2–0 victory 
over rival Chico State in a California 
Collegiate Athletic Association 
matchup at Triton Soccer Stadium on  
Sunday afternoon. 
The Tritons move their record to 
a stellar 6–1–1 overall and 1–1 in 
the CCAA. UCSD is undefeated at 
home with a 5–0 record in La Jolla. 
With the loss, Chico State has now gone six games without a win; its 
record is 1–4–3 overall and 0–2–2 in             
league play.
Palano’s first goal started from a 
cross that came from junior forward 
Uly de la Cal in the 21st minute. 
Palano took the cross and blasted a 
right-footed shot from the right side 
low into the left corner of the goal. 
It was de la Cal’s second assist of the 
season. 
Palano didn’t need an assist for 
his second goal. In the 58th minute 
he took the ball between the center 
line and Chico State’s end line, and dribbled towards the right edge of the 
penalty area. He drilled a perfect shot 
between Wildcat junior goalkeeper 
Damion Lewis and the left post. 
With the additional two goals, Palano 
now leads the team with four goals             
this season. 
Goalkeeper Cameron McElfresh, 
also a senior, made three saves for 
the Tritons and earned his fourth 
shutout of the season — the 23rd of 
his career. McElfresh is now the all-
time record holder for most shutouts 
by goalkeeper since UCSD moved to 
Division II in 2000, unseating current professional player and former All-
American teammate Josh Cohen. 
The Tritons nearly took a lead in 
the eighth minute, as junior midfielder 
Zachary Lagotta sent in a cross from 
the right to senior midfielder Riley 
Harbour, but Harbour’s shot went 
just wide left.
With UCSD up 1–0, another 
scoring opportunity arose in the 39th 
minute. Freshman defender Kelvin 
Uribe launched a deep pass to junior 
midfielder Eric Y oung, who then sent a 
short cross to de la Cal. Unfortunately, 
his shot was blocked by Wildcat senior 
defender Isaiah Dargan. 
Defenders Uribe, senior Kuba 
Waligorski, and junior Nolan Mac 
each played the entire match. Redshirt 
sophomore Matt Merrill came back to 
his central midfield role after a one-
game absence. All of them contributed 
to a shutout and CCAA ’s No.1 ranked 
defense. With 23 minutes left in the 
game, Mac stopped Chico State from 
taking a chance to score.
UCSD could have added to its 
existing two-goal lead in the 79th 
minute when Y oung stole the ball 
and passed it to de la Cal. However, 
the Wildcats’ sophomore goalkeeper 
Luke Dennison moved to his right to 
make his only save of the game. 
The Tritons will remain at home 
next weekend, as they will host 
Sonoma State on Friday at 4:30 p.m. 
and Humboldt State on Sunday at 
11:30 a.m. Both matches are open 
doubleheaders with the women’s 
team at Triton Soccer Stadium, 
which is free admission with a live 
video stream in high definition on 
UCSDtritons.tv.
Tritons Get Back on Track to Defeat Area Rivals
Palano’s two scores, one in the first and one in the second half, power No. 21 UCSD past Chico State and 
lead his team to a 6 –1–1 overall record and 1 –1 in California Collegiate Athletic Association play . M. SOCCERUCSD to Host 
24th Annual 
Triton Classic 
Next Saturday
▶ CROSS COUNTRY ,  from page 12
Dev Jain    dajain@ucsd.edumarcus thuillier   mthuilli@ucsd.edu  BY  D e v  J a i n
Sports Editor 
PHOTO UCSD ATHLETICSSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
DEV JAIN
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , SEPTEMBER 29, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
With a potential win streak on 
the line, the No. 11-ranked 
UCSD women’s soccer 
team hoped to win its third straight 
game and improve its overall record to 
6–2. Thanks to a stellar performance 
by sophomore forward Mary Reilly, 
recently appointed the California 
Collegiate Athletic Association Player 
of the Week, the Tritons secured that 
victory with a commanding win over 
the Chico State Wildcats.
Despite the lack of points in the first period, the UCSD women had 
clear control of the match. With a 
shot advantage of 11–2, the Tritons 
put constant pressure on the Wildcat 
defenders, maintaining complete 
control on the flow of the game. While 
they did an admirable job defending 
with four saves in the first period by 
their goalkeeper, the Wildcat offense 
could not put the same kind of pressure 
on the Tritons.
The lack of scores would all 
change with the start of the second period, however. After two failed shot 
attempts, Reilly set up junior forward 
Katie O’Laughlin for UCSD’s first goal 
of the game, and O’Laughlin’s eighth of 
the season. Reilly’s playmaking chops 
didn’t end there: six minutes later, 
Reilly assisted junior midfielder Jordyn 
McNutt for a header that resulted in 
yet another score for the Tritons. While 
the Tritons would not need to score 
another point to secure the game, 
Reilly put the nail in the coffin by 
finally converting her own shot, and putting the team up 3–1 for good.
When the dust settled, it was clear 
the Tritons were playing to win: with 
a 27–5 shot advantage, UCSD put 
Wildcat freshman goalkeeper Caylin 
Stanley to work for the entire game. 
Reilly had the statline of the night with 
six shots, two shots on the goal, two 
assists, and one score.
“The pleasing thing today was the 
number of chances we made, ” UCSD 
head coach Brian McManus told the 
Athletics Department. “If we can start putting some of those away, it’ll make 
life a little bit easier for us. ”
The Tritons are now 6–2 overall 
and 2–0 in conference, while Chico 
State lost its fourth straight game 
and is now 4–4–1 overall and 0–4 in 
conference. Next up, UCSD hosts the 
reigning CCAA champion Sonoma 
State on Friday, Sept. 30.Tritons 
Take Down 
Chico State
Tritons defeat rival Chico State in a dominating display of offensive dominance with a 
commanding 3-1 win for their third victory in a row to improve overall record to 6-2. 
By Alex Wu // Sports Editorial assistant
Alex Wu     PHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE /UCSD GUARDIAN
UCSD’s cross country teams 
competed this past Saturday in 
two different locations, splitting up 
the team between the Roy Griak 
Invitational and the Coyote Challenge. 
The University of Minnesota hosted 
the Roy Griak Invitational at the Les 
Bolstad Golf Course, while Cal State 
San Bernardino welcomed teams to its 
campus for the Coyote Challenge.
Roy Griak Invitational
With two top-15 finishes by seniors 
Tareq Alwafai and Brendan Gee, the 
No. 21 UCSD men’s team finished an 
astounding second out of the 40 teams 
competing. Alwafai finished eighth in 
26:22.5 while Gee completed the eight-kilometer course in 26:32.5, good                                                               
for 13th.
“We had huge runs by both Tareq 
and Brendan at the top on the men’s 
side, ” UCSD head coach Nate Garcia 
told UCSD Athletics.
Rounding up the scorers for 
UCSD were senior Scott Acton (36th, 
27:11.2), junior Garrett Lepine (44th, 
27:21.5) and sophomore Samuel Blake 
(56th, 27:31.8). The Tritons scored a 
total of 130 points (6+9+30+37+48), 
finishing second only behind No. 6 
Augustana, which scored 88 points. 
Black Hills State (149 points), 
University of Manitoba (152), No. 14 
Western W ashington and No. 18 MSU 
Moorhead (283) completed the top six, 
with the two latter teams finishing tied 
for fifth. All the Triton runners finished within 1:09 of each other, in what is to 
be considered their best performance 
since the beginning of the season. In 
the individual standings, Kevin Tree of 
Lakehead took the victory with a time 
of 25:57.0.
On the women’s side, a group 
consisting of sophomore Karina 
Carstens (16th, 23:32.6), senior Ella 
Verhees (33rd, 24:07.8) and juniors 
Skylar Thiel (51st, 24:30.2), Kristin 
Semancsin (56th, 24:36.4) and Merin 
Arft (61st, 24:41.1) ran to finish fifth 
out of 40. On the six-kilometer course, 
Carstens continued her good season 
to lead all Triton runners, while Thiel, 
Semancsin and Arft all finished within 
11 seconds of each other.
“Karina had a strong day and 
we had a good packing behind her, ” Garcia said.
UCSD beat out two ranked teams to 
finish fifth: No. 8 Western W ashington 
by a point and No. 16 Winona State, 
which finished 13th. The Tritons, 
with 209 points (15+32+49+54+59), 
finished behind No. 4 University of 
Mary (1st, 93 points), No. 9 Minnesota-
Duluth (2nd, 95), No. 17 Northern 
Michigan (3rd, 122) and Colorado 
Springs (4th, 149).
Coyote Challenge
The other Triton runners were 
at the Coyote Challenge. The men 
had a full team, finishing third, 
but the women only had four                                        
runners competing.
Sophomore Manav V ats finished in 
sixth, leading all Tritons in 26:36.61. 
He was followed by freshman Burak Tufekci (11th, 26:51.11), sophomores 
Joseph Benrubi (17th, 27:04.67), Garrett 
Boulais (18th, 27:06.39) and freshman 
Julian Romero (23rd, 27:20.93). UCSD 
scored 77 points (6+11+18+19+23), 
behind No. 25 California Baptist (60 
points) and Claremont-Mudd-Scripps 
(63). V ahagn Isayan from Cal State 
San Marcos finished first in a time                
of 26:06.83.
Among the four Triton 
women running, freshman 
Camille Perkins was the best on 
the day, finishing in 17th place in 
19:40.2. Sophomores Alexandra 
Hernandez (31st/20:19.34), Kailyn 
Scott (80th/22:02.50) and Valerie 
Stark (91st/22:45.53) also crossed Men’s Cross Country’s Amazing Finish at Roy Griak Invitational 
UCSD splits the team in two; men’s take second and women’s take fifth at Roy Griak Invitational hosted by the University of Michigan, 
men’s take third at Coyote Challenge at Cal State San Bernardino while the women enter a team with only freshmen and sophomores.  CROSS  COUNTR Y
See CROSS COUNTRY , page 11BY  m a r c u s  t h u i l l i e r
managing editorUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESW.Tennis
M.Soccer
W. Soccer
W.Soccer
M. Soccer 9/29
9/30
9/30
10/2
10/2AT Azusa
VS Sonoma State
VS Sonoma State
VS Humboldt State
VS Humboldt State
Tritons 
Take Down 
Chico State