VOLUME 49, ISSUE 39   MONDA Y , MARCH 7, 2016  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
HOMELESS: 
PLEASE HELP
COULD YOU STILL IGNORE 
THE PERSON BEGGING ON 
THE STREET IF THEY WERE 
YOUR PEER? THE UCSD 
GUARDIAN EXPLORES HOW 
HOMELESSNESS IN SAN DIEGO 
EFFECTS EVERYONE. 
THE  NEW  F ACE OF  RACISM
ALL-UC  CHAMPIONSHIPDISGUISING  HA TEFUL  RHETORIC 
Men's  with  fir st  ever  winOPINION,  P age   4
sports,  P age  12
MONDAY
H 59 L 51TUESDAY
H 64 L 54
WEDNESDAY
H 65 L 54THURSDAY
H 66 L 56
FORECAST
VERBATIM
IT’S TIME TO TAKE A BREAK  FROM  
REFRESH ING THE DNS CACHE . 
LEAVE YOUR APARTMENT  TO 
PICK UP A BOX OF DONUTS . NOW 
STUFF  TWO DONUTS  INTO YOUR  
MOUTH  AND CHEW  LOUDLY WHILE 
TEARS  STREAM  DOWN YOUR  
CHEEKS . STILL NO GUARDIAN 
ACCESS ? DO NOT – I REPEAT  – 
DO NOT PANIC.”
- Read Me Online
HOW-TO GURU
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
WEEKLIES  ....................... 2
QUICK-TAKES  .................. 4
Q&A WITH CSO HEAD  ......8
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU  ....9
MEN’S BASKETBALL  .....12“Fea tures,  P AGE  6
PHOTO BY KENJI BENNETT/ GUARDIAN
Director of Physical and 
Community Planning Robert 
Clossin and Associate Director 
of Transportation Services Todd 
Berven announced that various 
construction projects around 
campus will result in the net addition 
of 5,000 parking spots by 2021.
The pair made the announcement 
during the A.S. Council meeting last 
Wednesday, warning that ongoing 
construction projects have created a 
“perfect storm” that will negatively 
impact the number of parking spots 
in the short term.
According to Clossin and Berven, 
the widening of Gilman Drive, the 
addition of a new bridge across Interstate 5 and the renovation of Voigt 
Drive Bridge will contribute to the 
temporary loss of 457 parking spaces. 
The construction, which began 
on Jan. 18, will ultimately connect 
Gilman Drive and Medical Center 
Drive and add an I-5 access ramp off 
of Voigt Drive, according to UCSD’s 
“On The Go” website. The projects 
are expected to be completed in Fall 
Quarter 2017.
Director of Transportation 
Services Charles Kindred spoke 
to the UCSD Guardian about the 
creation of temporary on-street 
parking that was introduced this past 
weekend to offset the loss of spaces.
“We are in the process of adding 
on-street parking in various areas 
around campus,” Kindred said. 
“This weekend, weather permitting, spaces will be added along Voigt 
Drive, between Earl Warren College 
and the Hopkins Parking Structure. ”
Kindred added that temporary 
street parking will also be introduced 
on Expedition Way, Hopkins Drive 
and in the Research Park on the east 
campus, bringing the total number 
of temporary spots to 200.
In addition to new construction, 
Clossin and Berven announced 
to the A.S. Council that they are 
introducing a restriction on 
freshman parking permits next year 
and that permits will be oversold by 
20 percent, meaning more permits 
will be in circulation than there are 
spots, since not all permit-holders 
will be on campus at the same time.Committee 
Announces 
2016 Council 
CandidatesA.S. ELECTION
Independent candidates will 
face off against those from the 
two slates: Tritons United and 
Students Determined.
BY   O l g a  G o l u b ko v a  a n d  q u i n n  p i e p e r
CONTRIBUTING WRITERs
Council Approves Resolution 
to Urge Turkey Divestment
A.S. Council unanimously voted to pass a resolution 
to divest $74 million from the Republic of Turkey 
last Wednesday. Proposed by the Armenian Student 
Association, the resolution aims to increase awareness of 
the Armenian Genocide and Turkey’s continued denial, 
and to ensure student funds are applied to economically 
beneficial as well as ethical financial decisions. 
ASA ’s Armenian Genocide Centennial Committee 
reached out to every senator, met with the majority of 
the council and gave formal presentations to Earl Warren 
College and Thurgood Marshall College’s councils. 
Warren senior and chairperson of the AGCC Seda 
Byurat recognized the efforts made by students, and the 
resulting support from nine student organizations and 
the attendance of affiliates from Los Angeles and Irvine. 
“[I] think that the fact that the room was filled 
at capacity with divestment supporters... made the 
committee members feel overwhelmingly supported; 
we had people from UCLA and UCI drive down for 
the council meeting, ” Byurat told the UCSD Guardian. 
“Overall, there was this sense of unity and solidarity for an issue that affects us all but also is so much bigger than 
us. Also, reflecting on it now, the committee obviously 
feels proud that we were able to put in the work to get 
the unanimous vote, but even more than that we are 
proud that we were able to tell the story of the Armenian 
Genocide that all too often does not see the light of day. ”
UCSD was the seventh UC campus to pass the 
resolution. Between January and June 2015, the 
following UC campuses approved resolutions to divest: 
Los Angeles, Berkeley, Irvine, Davis, Riverside and Santa 
Cruz. Within an hour of the resolution passing 25–0–0 
at UCSD, the same resolution also passed 21–0–1 at UC 
Santa Barbara. AYF Central Executive chairperson Gev 
Iskajyan explained how these achievements are part of 
the organization’s larger initiative #DivestTurkey.
“The #DivestTurkey initiative began in order to 
connect and provide resources for university students 
and activists on campuses across America to divest 
all holdings in the Republic of Turkey’s government 
until reparations for the Armenian Genocide are met 
and until genocide is no longer a profitable venture, ” B y   julie  yip  and  lisa  chik      Senior Staff writersROCK N’ ROOSEVELT
UC SYSTEM
Parking Officials Announce Temporary Spaces
Over the next five years, the university will see a net increase of 5,000 parking spots.See TURKEY , page 3
CAMPUS
BY   k e v i n   sa n t o s
STAFF WRITER
See ELECTION , page 2 See PARKING , page 3
Drummer Greg Erwin and his band Saint Motel headlined the Rock N’ Roosevelt 2016 concert this past Friday.
Photo by Patrick Lazo /UCSD GuardianThe Elections Committee 
announced who will be campaigning 
for the positions on the six college 
councils and A.S. Council later this 
year at last Thursday’s Mandatory 
Candidates Meeting. Students will 
be able to vote in the A.S. General 
elections on TritonLink between 
April 4 and April 8.
Similarly to last year, the majority 
of the A.S. candidates belong to two 
campus-wide slates: Tritons United 
and Students Determined. There 
are also five independent candidates 
who are running for President, Vice 
President of External Affairs and 
the Campus-wide Senator positions.
The candidates for A.S. 
President are current Associate Vice 
President of Diversity, Equity and 
Inclusion Daniel Juarez for Students 
Determined, current A.S. President 
Dominick Suvonnasupa for Tritons 
United and Associate Vice President 
of Academic Affairs Rushil Patel, 
who is running as an Independent. 
Juarez, a Muir College senior 
who has been involved with A.S. 
Council for the past four years, 
told the UCSD Guardian that a 
lot of students’ problems are 
interconnected and, by trying to 
tackle them separately, students and 
faculty are failing to successfully 
address them.
“If we are strategic and decide to 
look at campus issues holistically, 
collaborating with other key 
stakeholders, we will [solve those 
issues], ” Juarez said. “If we chose to 
do it on our own, we won’t. ” 
In light of concerns about 
campus climate, Juarez underlined 
their slate’s goal to provide material 
support to students whose academic 
success depends on accessibility of 
housing, quality food and funding.
Representing Suvonnasupa,, 
Warren College junior Joey Giltner 
attended the event to speak about 
Suvonnasupa’s platform, which can be 
described by the acronym F.I.G.H.T. 
– fair fees, inclusion, good mental 
health, housing and transportation. 
Giltner described the importance of 
housing in terms not only of cost 
but also accessibility, specifically in 
regards to emergency housing.
“Both Dom and I have been 
homeless this year, ” Giltner told the 
Guardian. “No student at UCSD 
should ever be homeless. We should 
always have access to housing, so 
we’re going to work with HDH to 
ensure that emergency housing is an option. ”
In opposition to the two running 
slates, Patel made a decision to run 
independently. Patel, a Muir College 
junior who has been a member 
of A.S. Council for the past three 
years, cited being frustrated by the 
polarization of A.S. Council as why 
he chose to run as an independent.
“I’ve seen how slates can cause 
some unnecessary division in this 
campus and that’s something I don’t 
want to be a part of, ” Patel told the 
Guardian.
Basing his campaign on social 
media and help from his team that 
consists of close friends and allies 
from various communities, Patel aims 
to deal with previously mentioned 
housing, parking and transportation 
difficulties and make sure that 
potential new regulations do not 
negatively affect UCSD students.
The candidates for A.S. Vice 
President of External Affairs are 
Eleanor Roosevelt College junior Lauren Roberts for Students 
Determined, ERC junior Zack 
Gianino for Tritons United and 
Anurag Coramulta, who is running 
as an independent.
Roberts told the Guardian that 
her slate prioritizes getting housing 
under control, diversifying CAPS 
staff and tackling problems of 
accessibility and retention.
“We want to sustainably go to 
D-1, so we can retain students who 
otherwise would be pushed out 
by the fee increase, ” Roberts said. 
“We’re just looking to include more 
different people in our campus. ”
Gianino told the Guardian 
he plans to implement the slate’s 
F.I.G.H.T. platform through an 
emphasis on student action and 
involvement on and off campus.
“We have embraced the idea of 
join the party, which is a play on 
words as a student political party but 
also as student life — making things 
not more politicized but opening 
a new type of student government 
that focuses on how students actually think about the campus, ” 
Gianino told the Guardian.
Some initiatives on his platform 
include bringing students’ civil 
engagement to high schools and 
community colleges, creating 
discussions regarding racism 
and lobbying Congress members 
for legislation to accompany new 
influxes of students.
The candidates for A.S. Vice 
President of Campus Affairs are 
ERC junior Sabrina Ekdahl for 
Tritons United and Muir College 
junior Derek Van De Streek for 
Students Determined.
As a strong proponent of the 
D-I referendum, Ekdahl described 
school spirit as a significant factor 
in campus climate that unites 
people from diverse communities.
“My biggest thing is having 
stronger school spirit, and having 
people more proud to be a Triton, ” 
Ekdahl told the Guardian. “ And I 
think that if you have more spirit 
and you’re more excited about your 
school, you’re going to want to get involved, so it’s a cycle. ”
Ekdahl also considers campus 
safety a high priority on her 
platform, citing inadequate 
and lighting — like that in the 
Gliderport parking garage — as an 
issue for students.
“I’m a strong advocator for 
safety on campus, and making 
sure that everyone feels safe and 
comfortable because this is a home 
for us, ” Ekdahl said. “If we don’t feel 
safe we’re not going to thrive on 
our environment … And with that, 
fixing the lighting issue on campus. ”
During the meeting, A.S. 
Elections Manager Claire Maniti 
also went over the campaigning 
rules, including logistics, college-
specific guidelines for distribution 
of campaign materials, finance 
regulations and potential sanctions.
The Guardian reached out to 
Suvonnasupa, Coramulta and 
Van De Streek, but they were not 
available to respond by press time.2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 7, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
WEEKLIES By Alex Lee
CalCopyUCSD@gmai l.comLowest
Prices POSTER PRINTINGPRINT/ COPY FILES
'' FedExFastest
ServiceReaders printed in 1 day.Cal Copy UCSD Course Readers
SAME DAY COLOR POSTER PRINTING!
REGISTER ONLINE  AT
AS.UCS D.EDU/ SAFERID ESREGISTRATION
FOR this quarter
IS NOW OPEN!
A.S. Safe Rides all ows 
registe red unde rgraduate 
students to get 3 FREE rid es 
per quarter. 
Students must r egister at 
least 2 4 hours prior t o their 
first ri de. Contact A.s. safe rides: (619) 564 - 799 8
10% OFF
OF ANY PURCHASE
ON/Y APP/,CA%/E ON 0ARCH ă 0ARCH 1ă1
PULFH CHQWHU :HVW Ć 11 DP WR  SP Ć 'DWH UHVWULFWLRQV DSSO\The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. The joy of almonds brought to the G by J.Lefler.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Marketing Co-Directors
Peter McInnis, Haley Asturias
Training and Development Manager
Cedric Hyon
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Vincent Pham
Tina Butoiu
Jacky To
Cassia Pollock
Quinn Pieper 
Marcus Thuillier
Dev Jain
Allison Kubo
Karly Nisson
Brittney Lu
Olga Golubkova
Jonathan Gao
Megan Lee
Joselynn Ordaz
Sherman Aline
Christina Carlson
Sophia Huang
Jennifer Grundman
Sage Schubert ChristianEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editors
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Sherman Aline, Allison Kubo, Jacky To
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim, Alicia Ho, Lisa Chik
Editorial Assistants
Naftali Burakovsky, Oliver Cromwell, Christian Duarte, 
Josh Lefler, Maria Sebas, Sam Velazquez, Nathan WalkerCandidates for A.S. Council Cite Housing, Parking and Racism as Primary Concerns
▶ ELECTION,  from page 1
Olga Golubk ov a   ogolubko@ucsd.edu
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGsee more atNEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 7, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
TRITON
PANTRYFOOD
location: Original Student Center
email: foodpantry@ucsd.edu
phone: (858) 534-5694The mission of the Triton Food Pantry is to provide 
a discreet service to UCSD students in need of 
food. Our goals are to ensure that every student 
has enough energy to get through the day and that 
no student needs to give up a single meal for any 
reason. We aim to build a network of resources and 
awareness about food insecurity.
Hours subject to change in future quarters.Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri
1pm–3pm 10am–2pm 10am–2pm 1pm–3pm 1pm–3pmHOURS OF OPERATION:
Iskajyan told The Armenian Weekly.
Though the divestment had full 
support from A.S. Council, some 
students felt the circumstances 
surrounding the Armenian 
Genocide may have been presented 
in a biased manner. According 
to Warren sophomore Irmak 
Ipekci, an international student 
from the Republic of Turkey, the 
Armenian Genocide affected all 
parties involved, emphasizing that 
Armenians were not the only ones 
who were killed.
“It wasn’t just a systematic 
killing of the ‘defenseless’ group by 
the ‘powerful’ one, ” Ipekci told the 
Guardian. “It happened in an era 
when many minorities revolted to 
gain their independence and resorted 
to violent acts to do so. Many 
innocent people died on both sides. ”
However, Ipekci admits 
his education in Turkey never 
exposed him to the history of the 
Armenian Genocide until 2007, 
when Turkish-Armenian journalist Hrant Dink, a strong proponent of 
Turkish-Armenian reconciliation, 
was assassinated while residing 
in Istanbul. Dink’s death followed 
his appearance in Screamers, 
a documentary on genocide in 
modern history, in which he 
discussed the Armenian Genocide 
and his three-time prosecution for 
denigrating Turkishness, under the 
Article 301 of the Turkish Penal 
Code. Ipekci explained how he saw 
Turkey’s population act in solidarity 
with the Armenian community after 
Dink was killed. 
“The Turkish community 
around me was shocked by such a 
vile act and showed their support 
for the Armenian community by 
shouting slogans such as ‘We are 
all Armenians’ during his funeral, ” 
Ipekci said. “What I later learned 
is that acts like these were carried 
out frequently by both sides because 
of a perpetual attempt at getting 
revenge. It wasn’t only Armenians 
[who suffered] casualties but also 
many innocent Turks who died at the 
hands of Armenian militants. ”With the divestment proposal now 
passed, Byurat described the AGCC’s 
future plans to celebrate Armenian 
heritage, over one hundred years after 
the genocide.
“The point of the Armenian 
Genocide was to annihilate and 
destroy a whole culture and ethnicity, 
but we are still here and still creating, ” 
Byurat said. “ Although genocide 
recognition efforts are still important 
to us, we want to celebrate our people 
and especially our artists. We hope to 
have a display of Armenian culture 
through the arts type of night at the 
Loft next quarter. ”
In collaboration with the entire 
ASA and Armenian Y outh Federation, 
the AGCC will expand its efforts to 
increase recognition of the Armenian 
Genocide at UC Merced and UC 
San Francisco, the two remaining 
UC campuses still financially tied 
to Turkey, by proposing similar 
divestment resolutions. Byurat Hopes to Host Armenian Culture Night at The Loft Next Quarter
▶ TURKEY ,  from page 1
UCSD Transportation Services Will Replace the A/B/S Permit System with a Currently Unknown Alternative
Eleanor Roosevelt College 
Student Council President Ellen 
Spicer felt that the policy of 
overselling permits was unfair to 
students who pay for a service but 
cannot find parking. However, 
Clossin and Bervin pointed out that 
students can park in off-campus lots 
and take the shuttle to school, as 
these lots are seldom occupied, such 
as lot P782. 
This restriction coincides with 
the significant increase in student enrollment that will occur next 
year. However, the pair assured 
the council that, despite the loss 
of parking caused by construction, 
UCSD will have a net gain of 5,000 
spaces by 2021 through numerous 
building projects.
Permanent parking additions that 
will be completed this spring include 
new lots on Gilman Drive, Osler 
Lane and in the Science Research 
Park. They will add a total of 299 
new parking spaces to campus.
Kindred added that UCSD is attempting to drop the current A/B/S 
parking system in favor of an as-of-
yet undecided alternative system. 
“We are looking at transitioning 
away from the A/B/S system based 
on the many changes that will occur 
within the campus, ” Kindred said. 
“There are many different types of 
programs that are being evaluated, 
such as lot-specific permits, 
proximity parking and more. ”
In addition, Kindred mentioned 
that UCSD students may lose 
access to parking at Torrey Pines Gliderport in 2018.
“The campus has a temporary-
use agreement with the California 
Coastal Commission which allows 
us to use [Gliderport] for parking 
for three years,” Kindred said. 
“ After that time elapses, we can ask 
for an extension, but there are no 
guarantees that an extension would 
be granted. ”
Thurgood Marshall College 
senior Trevor Lindner described the 
parking situation as a mess, even 
without the impact of construction.“The parking situation is already 
horrible, ” Lindner told the Guardian. 
“My principle investigator, who I 
work [on research] with, she can’t 
even find B spots. The only time 
you get a spot easily is at 8 a.m. and 
if you don’t have class till 11 or 12, 
coming at eight is just painful. ” 
Students are encouraged to go to 
OnTheGo.ucsd.edu to learn more 
about construction projects and 
future impacts to parking.▶ PARKING,  from page 1LIGHTS & SIRENSLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edu.
Friday, Feb. 26
8:04 a.m. Drunk in Public
Report of staff member possibly 
driving a UC vehicle under the 
influence of alcohol. Report taken.
8:52 a.m. Information
Report of UCSD parking signs in 
backyard of residence, homeowner 
states he has asked student 
residents to return the signs several 
times. Information only. 
8:50 p.m. Medical Aid
Young adult male thinks he is 
having a heart attack. Transported 
to hospital.
Sunday, Feb. 28
2:41 a.m. Welfare Check
Female inside shower for 40 
minutes, not answering or 
unlocking bathroom door.  
Checks OK.Monday, Feb. 29
9:19 p.m. Medical Aid
Per San Diego Fire Department, 
adult female almost lost 
consciousness in restroom. 
Transported to hospital. 
Tuesday, March 1
Unknown. Petty Theft
Stolen pen, loss $400.00. Report 
taken.
Wednesday, March 2
9:11 p.m. Disturbance
Adult male smells of alcohol, 
harassing females and challenging 
people to fight. Unable to locate.
Thursday, March 3
6:55 a.m. Welfare Check
Person lying down with plastic sheet 
over them. Field interview.
— LAUREN HOLT
Staff WriterJulie Yip   jlyip@ucsd.edu
Josh  lefler   jlefler@ucsd.edu4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 7, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
CONTACT THE EDITOR
CASSIA POLLOCK
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
See RACISM, page 5A Ku Klux Klan rally in Anaheim ended in three stabbings and 13 
arrests on Feb. 27 as violence erupted between clan members and protesters. 
Some reacted like Nick Keeton, an Anaheim resident who said “I feel like 
this is 1953 and we’re in Kentucky. ” However, that way of thinking is exactly 
why these rallies are dangerous. They are viewed as racist anomalies that 
have no place in the main stream, and because of that, people forget how 
prevalent the sentiment behind the rallies are. The KKK rally did not include 
any burning crosses or megaphones spewing racial slurs. No, that rally 
was, according to one of the KKK members, to speak out against “illegal 
immigration and Muslims. ” This is not the racism of the civil rights era, 
where we could decry segregation and call that progress; this is the racism 
of modern America, where pandering political rhetoric and biased media 
presentation go hand-in-hand with informal, yet institutionalized, racism.  
There is a misconception that such acts of racism are from another 
time and place, but a nation where people like Donald Trump can proudly 
flout racist views to the cheers and applause of enormous crowds shows otherwise. Calling Trump a racist is not a matter of politics, but simply 
observation. His claim that Mexican immigrants are rapists and drug 
dealers, which he adamantly defended, and his vitriol against Muslims are 
not ga ffs, but embraced rallying cries. Trump has been lauded by the KKK, 
which he was slow to denounce, and his rallies are filled with violence, 
including an incident where he cheered on one of his supporters ripping 
a sign that read “Stop Hate” from a Sikh man. With each word Trump 
utters, white nationalist websites gain so much tra ffic that one popular site, 
Stormfront, had to upgrade its servers. Hate group leaders, such as Knights 
Party’s Rachel Pendergra ft, use Trump headlines as recruitment tools. And 
it would be denial to claim that Trump’s appeal to bigotry is only popular in 
the deep recesses of the South, where so many progressives like to convince 
themselves that the racist boogeymen stay in their caves and under their 
rocks. Rather, Trump had crushing victories in moderate states such as New 
Hampshire and Massachusetts. He’s not a radical outlier and he’s not a part 
of a fringe group — he and his rhetoric are mainstream. 
QUICK TAKESOBAMA RECENTLY SIGNED AN ACT TO BAN PRODUCTS MADE USING SLAVE LABOR. THIS IS THE FIRST TIME THE U.S. HAS 
BARRED SUCH IMPORTATION, AND BRINGS UP QUESTIONS OF EFFECTIVENESS. HOW WILL WORKERS BE AFFECTED? How-To 
Guru:
Read Me 
Online
In a final blaze of glory, the UCSD 
Guardian’s website is up and running 
again. This brings an end to the cries 
of sadness and confusion that became 
widespread among campus-wide 
protests after The Guardian’s online 
account was suspended. While the 
protesters jeered, “Bring back The 
Guardian!” over and over again, this 
wild rally cry gently awakened the 
how-to guru’s wise spirit, and I am 
once again willing to enlighten my 
blind yet impassioned followers. After 
weeks of public mayhem, the how-to 
guru is here to show you the way.
With this indispensable guide, 
not one UCSD student will ever have 
to go without digital access to The 
Guardian’s website. Try not to think 
about that long week that went by, 
without an opportunity to listen to 
our emphatic opinions and endless 
complaints about how inadequate 
everything is about college. Take my 
hand, and together we can overcome 
those painful memories by stepping 
back into the light. All you need 
to know is how to refresh the DNS 
cache on your computer, which will 
seamlessly reconnect your internet 
back to The Guardian.
Here’s how to refresh the DNS 
cache on your computer. Pull out a 
pen and notebook because you’ll need 
to take notes on this. Click start on 
your computer. If a button labeled 
start is unavailable, trace the letters 
S-T-A-R-T onto your desktop screen 
using your index finger. Now right-
click, double-click and right-click 
again. Dust off your keyboard. Has 
nothing happened? That’s a good 
sign. Go ahead and open an internet 
browser. Enter “cmd” in the Start 
menu search text box and press enter. 
Then disconnect your internet and 
restart your computer.
It’s time to take a break from 
refreshing the DNS cache. Leave 
your apartment to pick up a box of 
donuts. Now stuff two donuts into 
your mouth and chew loudly. Still 
no Guardian access? Do not — I 
repeat — do not panic. Stay with me, 
readers, and eat one more donut. We 
will overcome this heartbreakingly 
boring digital blockade together.
Say aloud to your computer “Okay, 
Google. How do I refresh my DNS 
cache?” If nothing happens, check if 
your audio is disabled. Try typing the 
words into Google’s search engine 
and click “I’m Feeling Lucky. ” Now 
carefully follow the directions listed 
on the random screen that appears. 
Does nothing continue to happen? 
Y ou’re doing well. Continue on to the 
next step.
If none of those previous 
instructions prove effective, then 
screw the website and its technological 
constipation. We’re better than 
that. We’re a newspaper. It’s much 
more productive to visit another 
website known as the ISSUU digital 
collections of the UCSD Guardian. 
Here you can find the latest digital 
edition of The Guardian newspaper, 
in an authentic, retro “newspapery” 
format. Still not satisfied? Then 
go pick up an actual newspaper, 
and enlighten yourself with The 
Guardian’s deep and all-encompassing 
insights and intellectual revelations. 
You’re  w e l c om e .America Sets Global Standard by 
Its Treatment of  Slave LaborPoor Workers Will Struggle to Find 
New Income Source After Labor BanBill Does Not Address Widespread 
Slave Labor Practiced in U.S. Prisons
    President Obama’s recent decision to 
approve a law banning any products made by 
slavery or forced labor is an important milestone 
in fighting the abuse of human rights. By refusing 
to import certain goods, the U.S. is sending a 
clear message that we do not support slave labor, 
even in industries and countries outside of direct 
U.S. jurisdiction. One target of this bill is the 
Thai seafood industry which, as reported by the 
New Y ork Times, is one of the last remaining 
bastions of modern-day slavery. Workers on 
Thai seafood ships reported constant beatings, 
punishments and beheadings onboard flimsy 
ships with little protection from the elements. 
Given these appalling conditions, we should not 
support this industry by buying its goods.
    Furthermore, the new law is an important 
step forward from its predecessor which, 
according to AP News, allowed Customs and 
Border Protection to permit slave-labor goods 
so long as there was not “sufficient supply to 
meet domestic demand. ” Now that this loophole 
is closed, free-market forces will likely increase 
supply from industries which do not use such 
horrible labor. Although preventing this tainted 
supply from entering U.S. markets will possibly 
be detrimental in the short term, we will 
eventually find or create new producers which 
offer ethically produced goods.
     In addition, by closing U.S. markets 
to slave-labor goods, other countries and 
governments will begin to clean up their act and 
stop forced labor that was previously overlooked. 
The Thai government has already begun to crack 
down on human trafficking after international 
pressure, according to the BBC. This is a step 
forward and a promising step toward ending 
human trafficking across the world.
             — NATHAN WALKER
Staff WriterObama signed an act this month banning 
the imports of all goods into America that were 
produced with forced labor. Although resulting 
from good intentions, this act was an ineffective 
move from the U.S. because it fails to educate and 
mobilize workers.
The Guardian writes that the most effective 
way to stop slave labor without hurting the 
workers — the most vulnerable people in this 
equation — is to leverage the situation from both 
sides. There must be a simultaneous effort to 
stop the demand of products made from slave 
labor while also empowering workers to demand 
better treatment. 
Here’s the big problem that Obama’s act 
missed. It only regulates trade. In no way does 
it legally require companies to pay their workers 
more or give them more rights, nor does it 
encourage the creation of programs teaching 
workers about their rights. Educating workers 
to fight for their rights is a crucial part of this 
equation as it promotes better working conditions 
while allowing workers to keep their incomes. 
When companies can’t pay everyone the new 
legal wage and aren’t legally required to, then they 
fire workers, resulting in a loss of income for an 
impoverished working class that has no means of 
getting it back.  
The International Labour Organization 
reports that forced labor has been condemned 
internationally since 1930, yet 20.9 million people 
today are slave workers. Many workers aren’t 
aware that these conditions are illegal, and thus 
don’t know that they can advocate for themselves. 
International laws to ban slave labor have existed 
for some time, but without factoring in the human 
element into these laws, we are going to retain the 
same results. 
                                 — AYAT AMIN
Senior Staff WriterCondemning slave labor seems like an easy 
decision, even easier when it points the finger 
everywhere but your own country. The Bureau 
of International Labor Affairs compiled a list of 
353 specific goods from specific countries that it 
deems rife with problematic working conditions. 
This list could have served as an example of 
economic responsibility, if not for the fact that the 
U.S. profits off labor of more incarcerated people 
— disproportionately people of color — than any 
other polity on the planet.
Senator Ron Wyden said he sponsored the 
bill because any products “made by people held 
against their will” should have no place among U.S. 
imports. Evidently, this moral standard does not 
apply to products made domestically. Prisons serve 
as one of the largest employers in the U.S. and 
make over $37 billion in revenue. 
We currently have over two million 
incarcerated laborers who are disproportionately 
people of color. Many are locked up for nonviolent 
crimes and paid a few dollars for a full day’s worth 
of labor making products without insurance, labor 
unions or benefits. The 13th Amendment, which 
ostensibly abolished slavery, specifically notes that 
it may still occur as punishment for a crime. This 
clause built our current prison-industrial complex 
and contradicts our international stance against 
slave labor.
Of course, in principle the U.S. should not 
support forced labor abroad, but it seems a 
lot easier to give up garments from Brazil or 
Christmas decorations from China than turn our 
righteous indignation on ourselves and abolish 
a booming prison complex built off the coerced 
labor of Americans held against their will. The bill’s 
good intentions get lost behind glaring hypocrisy.
                                 — THOMAS FINN                               
Senior Staff WriterThe Ku Klux Klan rally that resulted in three stabbings 
last week is more than a fluke incident.  It’s one of many 
symptoms of  pervasive racism in modern America.BY AHMAD ALIJAWAD // STAFF WRITERILLUSTRA TION   B Y  CHRISTINA  CARLSON
The  Modern  F ace  of  RacismOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 7, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
But Trump didn’t create racism; 
he’s merely pandering to an audience 
that’s angry and afraid at what’s 
happening around them. Gay 
marriage becomes legal, a black man 
becomes president and people notice 
that the world around them is moving 
past them, changing in ways they 
never asked for. To angry whites who 
adore Trump, they fear that they’re no 
longer America, just another part of it. 
In their perspective, they’re drowning, 
and like anybody else who drowns, 
they thrash and fight. 
Sadly, their thrashing a ffects more 
than just themselves. This past year 
saw the addition of over 100 hate 
groups across America, according 
to the Southern Poverty Law Center. 
Emphasis on “across, ” as these groups 
aren’t limited to the deep South, as 
so many would like to believe. To 
put it into perspective, the SPLC 
recorded 457 hate groups in 1999, 
and now there are 892, with only the 
period between 2011–2014 showing 
drops in hate groups since then. Hate crimes against Muslims have also 
seen a terrifying spike, including an 
incident involving a college student 
in San Diego. There was even a sixth-
grade student in the Bronx who was 
physically assaulted by three boys 
who called her “ISIS. ” These weren’t 
angry redneck stereotypes people 
get out of lazy race jokes, but kids 
living in the largest city in America. 
Brian Levin, a criminologiwst at Cal 
State San Bernardino, notes that a 
large part of this in flux of hate crimes 
comes from “anti-Muslim stereotypes 
seeping into the mainstream. ” He goes 
on to point out that when people see 
their ideas reinforced in the media, 
they are emboldened to act.
This sort of racist sentiment also 
ties back into more institutionalized, 
subtle forms of racism. We live in 
a country where, according to the 
Sentience Project, black men are six 
times more likely than white men 
to go to jail, where 60 percent of 
the prison population is comprised 
of minorities and where there are 
three times as many black people 
arrested for drug charges than white people despite the fact that white 
people use more of every drug except 
for crack. When Attorney General 
Eric Holder stated that the Justice 
Department would no longer pursue 
mandatory minimum sentencing 
for low-level drug o ffences because 
of racial disparities in the criminal 
justice system, it should have served 
as a wake-up call. Instead, incredibly 
influential people like Bill O’Reilly 
continued blaming the “corrosive 
culture” of inner-city African-
Americans for their problems.  
Any sort of dismissal of this 
racism as un-American or fringe 
is exactly what allows it to be 
American and mainstream. Instead 
of confronting bigoted views, we 
mock them, without realizing that 
mocking someone, while fun, is the 
best way to make them stop listening 
seriously. We need to face the reality 
that America still has a troubling race 
problem, and that ignoring it only lets 
it grow. 
Dr. Terranova, Dr. Sherman, and Dr. Horne
TORREY PINES
DENTAL ARTS
We welcome UCSD Staff & Students
Richard L Sherman DDS
Steven B. Horne DDS
Scripps/Ximed Medical Center
9850 Genessee Avenue #720
La Jolla, CA 92037
858-453-5525
Info@TorreyPinesDentalArts.com
www.TorreyPinesDentalArts.com'"! $! $
$""
'"	!# !
'%""!
 !
'
!&!! #!
 " !! "	!
"	#!
Karmonize.org  is a student organization
where we can support good causes,
cooperate, and volunteer to
improve the UCSD community.HELP OTHERS, FIND HELP
WHEN YOU NEED IT, AND
MAKE KARMA REAL!
Influx of Hate Groups Proves that Racism Remains a Modern Dilemma
▶ RACISM from page 4
GOT ISSUES?
SEND YOUR 
LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
LIKE US ON
 FACEBOOK
AHMAD ALIJA W AD ahmadsaljawad@gmail.com6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 7, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
ALLISON  KUBO
features@ucsdguardian.org
The number of homeless people living in San Diego is 8,742 right 
now. In fact, San Diego’s homeless population is currently the fourth 
highest in the nation, behind only those of Los Angeles, Seattle and 
New York City, and that number is only expected to increase.
With the problem of homelessness growing, some UCSD students 
have taken the initiative to help in any way they can. One notable 
organization on campus is the Homeless Charter, which focuses on 
feeding the homeless in Downtown San Diego. Executive member 
Hannah Robinson spoke to the UCSD Guardian about what she and her 
fellow volunteers do.
“Every Thursday, we organize a sandwich-making event and invite 
a few organizations to participate, including Greeks, club sports and 
service orgs. This gives people a fun way to give back to the community, ” 
Robinson told the Guardian. “Every Friday morning, members of our 
organization hand out sandwiches and water at the homeless shelter, the 
Alpha Project. ”
When it comes to the causes of homelessness, Robinson explains 
that a multitude of factors, many out of an individual’s control, can lead 
to a life without a stable home.
“Throughout my years working with this organization, I have 
interacted with so many di fferent people from so many di fferent 
backgrounds. It’s hard to say what the leading cause of 
homelessness is, ” Robinson said. “You obviously see your 
fair share of mental illness and substance abuse, but 
California has an extremely high cost of living and 
many people, even with jobs, find themselves unable 
to afford the expenses of everyday living. 
Everyone has a di fferent story. ”
No matter the cause, both the 
private and public sectors 
are changing how they 
approach the issue. In the past, charitable organizations and government programs focused 
on providing assistance in the form of substance-abuse counseling, job 
training and financial responsibility courses prior to placing people 
in transitional housing or emergency shelters. La Jolla businessowner 
Michael McConnell volunteers full time on this issue collecting data 
and coordinating funding e fforts for many private as well as public 
organizations, but overall, he considers himself “an advocate of the 
homeless. ” According to McConnell, only 20 percent of those placed in 
emergency shelters eventually make it to permanent housing while only 
46 percent of those in transitional housing find long-term stable housing. 
“The traditional ‘housing readiness’ method assumes the client is not 
ready for their own permanent housing but, instead, needs temporary 
shelter and services in order to get ready, ” McConnell told the Guardian. 
“This is a backwards approach that is rejected by communities making 
data-driven decisions. The client did not need to become ‘homeless ready’ 
so why would they need to become ‘housing ready?’  Most people need a 
place of their own to start the process to obtaining better health and self-
sufficiency. ”
This new method is referred to as Rapid Rehousing and has been 
embraced by the Department of Veterans A ffairs and the San Diego 
Housing Commission. Using the Housing First method, 72 percent of 
people we able to make the transition to permanent housing. Although 
it is e ffective, this method requires access to housing, which is di fficult to 
obtain in the impacted San Diego area, particularly because of the stigma 
surrounding homelessness. 
“San Diego has a tight rental market, but most of all, landlords need to 
feel con fident that the tenant has the support needed to succeed in their 
housing, ” McConnell said. “ The biggest drawback is placing people in 
permanent housing without the proper support services and connection 
back to the community. In the rush to build housing first systems we must 
not let go of the quality of services that are needed to make it work. ”
This, of course, requires substantial amounts of funding.
See HOME , page 7
In order to address the 5th highest population of homeless people in the U.S., private 
and public organizations of San Diego look to data to find more e ffective ways of 
helping this hidden population. Among those who need help are UC students — our 
peers and friends — who su ffer from housing and food insecurity. by Oliver Kelton  // Editorial Assistant
Allison Kubo // Features Editor 
Tina Butoiu // Managing Editor
photos by Kenji BennettFEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 7, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
Representative Scott Peters (D-52) has 
been working the Department of Housing and 
Urban Development to secure the necessary 
funding. Looking at 2014, San Diego received 
only 23rd most funding, despite having 
the fifth highest homeless population in 
the United States. In order to combat this, 
Representative Peters has asked the HUD to 
open the current formula for the allotment 
of federal aid up for public comment this 
coming spring so that San Diego’s homeless 
can receive a fair amount of assistance. 
“Our communities need more resources to 
get people o ff of the street, out of shelters and 
into stable homes so they can hold a job and 
raise their family, ” Peters said in a press release 
sent to the UCSD Guardian by Peters’ sta ff. 
“Secretary Castro has taken signi ficant steps 
to reduce homelessness across the country, 
and I support this budget request that will 
bring more resources to communities like San 
Diego that are working cooperatively to end 
homelessness. ”
Furthermore, McConnell believes that the 
best solution for this problem cannot come from 
public services alone, but through cooperation 
between public and private organizations.
“The most important partnerships are 
between the Public Housing Agencies and 
the County Health and Human Service 
Agency, ” McConnell said. “ This is where the 
marriage of housing and services need to 
occur. Private funders, like Funders Together 
to End Homelessness San Diego, need to 
fund some infrastructure items that public 
funders cannot. Nonpro fit agencies need to 
provide the best evidence-based services they 
can. Everyone needs to advocate for elected 
officials to make this a priority issue. ”
In bringing an end to homelessness, it is 
important to remember that homelessness and 
housing insecurity a ffect college students as well. 
A.S. Council Senator and Thurgood Marshall 
College sophomore Tara Vadhani explained that 
housing insecurity is, in many ways, an invisible 
problem among UCSD students.
“With students on campus, there are ways 
they act that might not be perceived like 
the ways we expect homeless people to be, ” 
Vadhani told the Guardian. “ The fact that we 
have a shower to use and a lot of nap spaces in 
our space [the Women’s Center] means there 
is more access to resources where you can use 
these resources without anyone pointing out 
that you’re housing insecure or that you’re 
currently homeless. ”
In 2014, 20 percent of students skipped 
meals to save money, according to the 
Undergraduate Experience Survey. Alarming 
numbers like these prompted the UCOP to 
give $75,000 to each UC campus to open food 
pantries and provide resources to struggling 
students. Unfortunately, the seed funding 
given to the Triton Food Pantry, which 
Vadhani volunteers at, has long since run out.
“It’s kind of been a bit challenging this year 
because I want to point students to the Food 
Pantry as a reliable resource but, as someone 
who volunteers there, and is there every 
week, I know that that’s not always the case, ” 
Vadhani said.
Vadhani also emphasizes that divorcing 
food insecurity from housing insecurity in the 
public consciousness undermines our ability 
to combat both issues e ffectively.
“When you look at these two issues, I think 
they’re both perceived, unfortunately, as flexible 
expenses and [students] question which one is 
more timely and which one do [they] need to 
devote limited resources to, ” Vahdani told the 
Guardian. “I think what is unfortunate is that, 
with housing insecurity, these questions haven’t 
really been asked before to students at the UC 
so there isn’t a known number of how many 
students across the UC are housing insecure, 
from my knowledge. ”
The Free Application for Federal Student 
Aid estimates that there are 58,000 homeless 
students. However, this number only counts 
students who fit the FAFSA de finition of 
homeless; though FAFSA de fines a student as 
homeless if he or she “lacks fixed, regular and 
adequate housing, ” every student’s status must 
be determined on a case-by-case basis by the 
university’s Financial Aid Administrator. In 
this process students are required to provide 
documentation from shelters, youth centers, 
or letters from social workers. Notably, FAFSA’s de finition excludes students who 
live in on-campus residences but do not have 
places to live during breaks, students who are 
“couch hopping. ”  
“If a student is homeless midyear, I don’t 
know what resource to refer them to, ” Vahdani 
said. “Our university is large enough that we 
should have emergency housing available for 
students if they’re suddenly unable to locate a 
place to live and have advisors who act like a 
support system that can guide them through 
the process. ”
When it comes to resolving an individual’s 
problems with housing insecurity, Vadhani 
recommends contacting one’s college dean as 
a good first step.
“First, it could help them address your 
immediate needs, but the second thing that 
that could do is really bring the issue of 
housing and food insecurity to the forefront 
of administrators’ agenda, ” Vadhani said. 
“Then, when my dean of student a ffairs 
goes and meets with the deans of the other 
colleges, or goes and meets with the provost, 
this is something that they can go and bring 
up. I don’t think it’s great recommendation 
but I think it also points to how much more 
our university has to do to address this need. ”
In light of these issues, A.S. President 
Dominick Suvonnasupa has made it his 
mission to combat housing insecurity, among 
several other issues that threaten students’ 
well-being, during his term in o ffice. For this 
purpose he is creating the O ffice of Food 
and Housing Resources. Suvonnasupa has 
already written the o fficial language for the 
constitutional amendment to create the o ffice, 
and will seek approval from the six college 
councils this week.
“The design of the o ffice is to make sure 
that A.S. [Council] is very in-tune and aware of 
what the di fferent issues surrounding housing 
and food insecurity are, ” Suvonnasupa told the 
Guardian. “It’s not a simple problem because 
there are a multitude of layers. ”
Suvonnasupa explained that the inspiration 
for the o ffice came from the experiences of 
both himself and people he has known.
“There’s de finitely a lot of di fferent 
instances where I talked to students, and 
even myself — I’ve got some experience in 
housing insecurity — and it’s always a really 
challenging thing because it a ffects every 
aspect of your educational experience, ” 
Suvonnasupa said. “It a ffects your ability to 
study, it a ffects your ability to work and it 
affects your ability to live like a student and 
enjoy your time with your peers. ”
The new o ffice will focus heavily on 
teaching students the skills necessary for 
living o ff campus, particularly how to pay rent 
and budget accordingly. This will make the 
transition to o ff-campus housing, which many 
students are not prepared for, much easier.
Suvonnasupa stressed that housing 
insecurity comes in many di fferent forms. For 
instance, interim housing insecurity involves 
circumstances where a person is le ft homeless 
due to an eviction, while systemic housing 
insecurity happens when a person is simply 
unable to a fford to live in La Jolla.
The Office of Food and Housing is only 
one part of the A.S. Council president’s plan 
to tackle this issue, the other being a campus-
wide housing insecurity committee that is 
jointly charged with the Student A ffairs O ffice, 
the CFO’s o ffice and A.S. Council. Consisting 
of faculty, administrators and students, the 
committee will look at the causes of food and 
housing insecurity and what UCSD institutions 
are willing to do to deal with them. 
The Office will also provide an O ff Campus 
Housing Resource Intern who focuses on 
tenant issues and legal issues. Furthermore, 
Student Legal Services already provides a 
student-accessible lawyer speci fically for 
tenant issues and other legal issues related to 
off-campus housing.
Suvonnasupa maintains that, in spite 
of the enormous challenges involved, his 
administration will work toward eliminating 
the problem of housing insecurity at UCSD.
“It’s my personal belief that I don’t think 
any student here should ever have to deal with 
housing insecurity, ” Suvonnasupa said. “While 
you’re on campus and we have the resources 
to address these issues, we should. ”
▶ HOME , from page 6To help food and housing insecure students, A.S. Council Institutes the Office of  Food and Housing Resources
Oliver  Kel ton   Okelton@uCsd.edu      READER CAN CONTACTcompiled by Noam Leead and Susanti SarkarIn light of the recent on-campus robberies, the UCSD Guardian sat down with 
Cpl. Manuel Garcia, head of the Community Service O fficer Program, to 
gage what can be done regarding students’ safety on campus. 
MG: “This is something relatively new to the campus, having on-campus robberies. Last 
year, we saw that it used to always happen at Villa La Jolla and La Jolla Village Square. 
This is something we’ve always been kind of concerned with, that the crime in 
San Diego will start to work its way up here. [Students] come here and they 
think, ‘It’s La Jolla, it’s safe, ’ and it really isn’t. Even though there are a lot 
of veterans who have done a lot of great things, there are also a lot of 
them who have had problems re-integrating back into society. They 
have criminal records and some of them are sexual registrants. 
There’s just some who cling on to the campus because it’s 
a great source of food and shelter. On the west side of 
campus, you have Gliderport. Gliderport was kind 
of like the meeting area for parolees and people 
who wanted to do drugs; you also had a lot 
of transients hanging out there as well 
that had criminal records. Y ou put 
those two things on either side 
of the campus and it makes 
it very inviting. ”MG: Here’s the thing I tell 
everybody. Have you ever 
caught yourself walking down 
the street looking at your cell 
phone rather than what’s around 
you? Maybe have your earbuds in? 
Awareness is your most effective tool. 
And when you think about how criminals 
act, they don’t want to be seen. If you 
become a witness, you become an enemy. In a 
sense, there is no time, criminals work 24 hours 
a day. They look for opportunities, somebody 
by themselves, somebody who looks emotionally 
distraught, somebody playing on their phone instead of 
watching the environment. 
You know, one out of three girls in their lifetime is 
likely to get raped, or sexually assaulted in some manner. 
So if I can make that number one out six, that’s a big deal. As 
a cop, I haven’t had to take a lot of sexual assault cases. I’ve 
taken a good handful, but the one underlying theme is that it never 
leaves the victim. That will affect how your life goes, how you 
have future relationships, how you perform in your job and 
how you just socialize in general. And I don’t think people 
realize when you let something go, and think it’ll go away 
some day, it really never does. Giving them those tools, 
so they can go out and get that person out of their 
way and stop the threat, that’s all we care about.
We have a service now called Triton Rides, 
and we drive people around campus. And 
you won’t have to worry, is this guy shady 
or what? Everybody likes to trust Uber 
and Lyft. My last DUI arrest was a 
Lyft driver! I won’t put somebody 
behind the wheel who can’t 
drive. They have to go through 
a driver’s safety course with 
me; we do everything that 
is reasonably possible 
to make sure you 
guys get home 
safe.MG: We know that there’s a lot of bad stuff 
going on in the United States regarding how 
police have reacted to certain things, and we don’t 
want our students or staff members feeling like we’re 
not for them and part of this campus. We want them to be 
able to trust us, come to us, not worry about what’s going to 
happen. You know there are times where we have to enforce, but 
other times when we really do just want to help somebody out; it could 
be a quick little fix which we’re able to do and change somebody ’s life. And 
a lot of times, especially on a high-stress campus like this, having somebody say 
“hi” to you might be the difference between you taking too many pills or not. It’s 
kind of a relationship-building thing; if we can win you guys over as part of our team, 
you’re going to look out for thefts and you’re going to feel comfortable calling them in.
MG: In orientations for this next coming year, I’ve asked to be a part of 
that so I can go out and, not only talk to you guys, but your parents. Let 
them know that if something happens, ‘you better be prepared to support 
that person because it’s gonna be a rough road.’ I’m [also] working with some 
of the [resident] deans so that they will allow me to come and speak. Now, there 
are also things that I do on my own here [such as] self-defense classes. MG: I want young people who 
are willing to be in a disciplined 
environment who want to take this role 
of a safety officer seriously. And I don’t 
want some kid coming in here and creeping 
you guys out, talking about stuff he shouldn’t be 
talking about or looking at this as a way to meet 
girls or anything like that. The training includes first 
aid, CPR, defensive tactics and you get trained on how 
to talk on the radios. It gives good paying jobs to students, 
and they also learn job skills. A lot of my CSOs go on to be 
in law enforcement. Paying some security guard from another 
company to come protect the campus that he has no affiliation 
with, he’s probably not going to do his best job. But if you 
have a CSO who takes ownership of this campus, and is 
proud to be a Triton, they’re going to go out there and 
they’re going to do a good job.G: Can you tell us a little bit about the recent attempted and armed robberies 
these past couple months and common campus crimes? 
G: What would you 
suggest students do to 
be safer? 
G: How would 
you describe 
your role or duty as 
an o fficer within the UCSD 
Police Department? 
G: What else 
have you been 
doing to develop a 
stronger relationship 
between students and 
the police department? G: What qualities do 
you look for in a CSO? 
Do you have training 
programs and/or other 
procedures?
noam  Leead       Q&A : Officer Manuel Garcia, Head of CSO Program8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 7, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURESCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 7, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
 THE VENETIAN TWINS
MANDELL WEISS THEATREMARCH 8, 10, 11, 12  • 7pmTahrirCAMPUS
CALENDAR
MAR 07 - MAR 132016 POWERED BY THE CHANCELLOR’S OFFICE AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guardian
Calenda r
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdg uardian.orgWED 3.09 TUE 3.08
11am
BODY COMPOSITION ANALYSIS - THE ZONE
Walk in for your free analysis which includes: body 
weight, percentage body fat, total body water, and 
blood pressure. One free assessment per quarter is 
available to registered UCSD students. For more 
information visit: 
http://studenthealth.ucsd.edu/bodycomposition.shtml
2pm
UCSD WOMEN'S TENNIS VS. PALM BEACH 
ATLANTIC- NORTHVIEW TENNIS COURTS
Watch as UC San Diego Women's Tennis takes on 
Palm Beach Atlantic.
2:30pm
CAREER CHATS W/ CSC - THE ZONE, PRICE 
CENTER
Chat with Roxanne Farkas, a CSC Advisor, about 
professional career objectives and goal setting so you 
can be more successful in obtaining your career goals. 
4:30pm
ICRA & ASCE'S SUN GOD FESTIVAL OPEN FORUM 
- VW2 CONFERENCE RMS ABC, THE VILLAGE AT 
TORREY PINES
Open forum for Sun God Festival 2016, presented by 
ICRA and AS Concerts and Events. 
6pm
STUDENTS AGAINST MASS INCARCERATION GBM 
SERIES- UCSD COMMUNITY RESOURCE CENTERS
This quarter SAMI is hosting GBMs at the five 
community centers on campus! Each meeting we will 
discuss the prison industrial complex and mass 
incarceration by focusing on issues specific to the 
community that week. Please join us at these events 
for discussion and to learn more about what SAMI 
does!
FRI3.11
10am
FITNESS ZONE: STRETCH AND RELEASE- THE 
ZONE
Learn to use massage sticks, softball and a few other 
tools to release tension in your neck, back, arms and 
legs. Lead by FitLife instructor Tiffany Caddell.
2pm
R&R SQUAD - THE ZONE
Drop-in and get a low intensity back rub from the R&R 
Squad! Questions? Contact The Zone at 
zone@ucsd.edu
4:30pm
WINTER 2016 STUDY JAM - DOLORES HUERTA/ 
PHILIP VERA CRUZ ROOM
Join the Undocumented Student Services and CASP in 
our Winter Study Jam at the Dolores Huerta/ Philip 
Vera Cruz Room on Friday, March 11, 2016 from 
4:30pm-11pm. Free food from Lorna's Italian Kitchen 
will be provided! Please RSVP at 
http://bit.ly/CASPstudy. Study space will be provided 
for students preparing for finals. Food will be provided 
to those who attend the event.SUN 3.13
2pm
ALPHA OMEGA PRESENTS: GOD OF THE 
UNIVERSE- MULTI PURPOSE ROOM, STUDENT 
SERVICES CENTER
This event is a non-denominational Christian church 
service and is welcome to all students of any 
spiritual affiliations. John Gore, who is an alumnus 
from UCSD, will be giving a sermon on how people 
can observe God throughout the universe, featuring 
some past and recent, namely astronomical, 
observations. In ddition, John Gore will be speaking 
on observing God from the perspective of the 
individual. After the featured speaker, Alpha Omega 
plans on having a reception (with refreshments), 
where students can discuss the lecture, propose 
questions, and address other spiritual perspectives. 10am
BARRE FIT- THE ZONE, PRICE CENTER
A full body workout fusing the best elements of 
ballet, pilates, muscle toning and conditioning. Lead 
by FitLife instructor Priscila Parker.
10am
FARMERS' MARKET- TOWN SQUARE
Celebrating 11 years with local farmers and food 
vendors since 2004! The UCSD Farmers' Market is 
held every Tuesday from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. during 
Fall, Winter, and Spring quarters, at Town Square, 
between the Student Services Center and the 
Chancellor's Complex.
3pm
R&R SQUAD - THE ZONE
Drop-in and get a low intensity back rub from the 
R&R Squad! Questions? Contact The Zone at 
zone@ucsd.edu
6:30pm
CELEBRATE INTERNATIONAL WOMEN'S DAY 
WITH DODAI STEWART- STUDENT SERVICES 
CENTER, MULTIPURPOSE ROOM
K-Dramas, Pop Culture, and Intersectionality: A 
Conversation About Imperfect Activism with Dodai 
Stewart. Dodai Stewart is Director of Culture and 
Coverage at Fusion, a multi-platform media 
company launched in 2013. She was previously the 
deputy editor at Jezebel.com and has written for 
various publications including Entertainment Weekly, 
Modern Bride, New York Magazine, Glamour, and the 
New York Times.
7pm
THE VENETIAN TWINS- MANDELL WEISS 
THEATER
When twin brothers Zanetto, the eccentric 
millionaire from the mountains, and Tonino, the 
charismatic romantic from the city, arrive in Verona 
unbeknownst to each other; so does intrigue, 
confusion and chaos. In this highly physical 
production about mistaken identities, which 
incorporates the masks and tomfoolery of the Italian 
commedia dell'arte, audiences will experience how 
these dangerously desired visitors become family. 
Jesca Prudencio, an MFA Director at UCSD's Dept. 
of Theatre & Dance, directs this laugh out loud 
comedy with original music at the Weiss Theater at 
La Jolla Playhouse!MON 3.07
11am
ART & SOUL: PAINTED MASON JARS- THE ZONE, 
PRICE CENTER
Workshops are free; all supplies and materials provided. 
Space is limited and is first come, first served.
12pm
UCSD MEN'S TENNIS VS. GEORGETOWN 
UNIVERSITY- NORTHVIEW TENNIS COURTS
Watch as UC San Diego Men's Tennis takes on 
Georgetown.
3pm
UCSD WOMEN'S TENNIS VS. BARRY- NORTHVIEW 
TENNIS COURTS
Watch as UC San Diego Women's Tennis takes on Barry.
5pm
AA CAMPUS MEETING- THE ZONE
Open AA Meeting held at the Zone every Monday from 
5:00 PM- 6:00 PM. Questions? Contact the Zone at 
zone@ucsd.edu
SAT 3.12
7:30pm
THE VENETIAN TWINS- MANDELL WEISS 
THEATER
When twin brothers Zanetto, the eccentric millionaire 
from the mountains, and Tonino, the charismatic 
romantic from the city, arrive in Verona unbeknownst 
to each other; so does intrigue, confusion and chaos. 
In this highly physical production about mistaken 
identities, which incorporates the masks and 
tomfoolery of the Italian commedia dell'arte, 
audiences will experience how these dangerously 
desired visitors become family. Jesca Prudencio, an 
MFA Director at UCSD's Dept. of Theatre & Dance, 
directs this laugh out loud comedy with original music 
at the Weiss Theater at La Jolla Playhouse!THU 3.10
10am
MEDITATION- THE ZONE
Join us for a guided meditation where you can: Gain 
greater mental clarity, Achieve a peaceful state of 
being, Learn techniques to de-stress, Achieve 
harmony amid cognitive dissonance.
12pm
BREATHER SERIES: ARTS AND CRAFTS- 
ARTSPACE, CROSS-CULTURAL CENTER
Come to de-stress or take a break from work or 
school. Take home what you create, whether it is a 
picture frame, wooden box, canvas, etc. All supplies 
are provided! All are welcome! Instagram: @ucsdicra
1:30pm
THERAPY FLUFFIES - THE ZONE
Come de-stress and play with and pet therapy dogs at 
The Zone!
6pm
TEACHING ENGLISH AS A FOREIGN LANGUAGE 
(TEFL) INFO SESSION- UCSD EXTENSION
Ever thought about teaching English abroad or in the 
U.S? Want to have an adventure after graduation, see 
the world, and earn enough money to sustain yourself 
overseas? The Teaching English as a Foreign 
Language (TEFL) certificate program at UC San Diego 
will open doors to job opportunities all around the 
globe. With proper planning, students are able to 
complete the 27-unit TEFL Professional certificate 
program by the time of graduation. UC San Diego 
students are also able to take advantage of a number 
of benefits which will be discussed at the info session. 
The session will include information about the 
program, a mini grammar lesson, and a Q&A period. 
Pizza and light refreshments also provided.
7:30pm
THE VENETIAN TWINS - MANDELL WEISS 
THEATER
When twin brothers Zanetto, the eccentric millionaire 
from the mountains, and Tonino, the charismatic 
romantic from the city, arrive in Verona unbeknownst 
to each other; so does intrigue, confusion and chaos. 
In this highly physical production about mistaken 
identities, which incorporates the masks and 
tomfoolery of the Italian commedia dell'arte, 
audiences will experience how these dangerously 
desired visitors become family. 
10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 7, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDS$
Gua rdian Classifieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedscrossword
Across
 1 Jazz singing
 5 Seance sounds
 9 Precipitous
 14 Edison’s middle name
 15 Distinctive flair
 16 Springs
 17 High time?
 18 Falco of “The Sopranos”
 19 Desert spring
 20 Bobs
 23 Bomb blast, in headlines
 24 Pugilist’s stats
 25 McKinley or Rainier: abbr.
 27 D-Day craft
 28 Slip by
 32 Text-removal directive
 33 Put an end to
 34 Loudness units
 35 Bobs
 39 Shows the way
 40 Transparent
 41 Arm bone
 42 Roman autocrat
 44 Posed
 47 Part of MD
 48 Knight’s address
 49 Maternally related
 51 Bobs
 56 Buddhist monument
 57 “Funny Girl” co-star Sharif
 58 Tribal wisdom
 59 Reveal
 60 Naldi of old films
 61 Leave out
 62 Takes five
 63 Appear (to be)
 64 Eliot of the UntouchablesDown
 1 Simple footwear
 2 Hits hard
 3 Slender-beaked shore bird
 4 War wagons?
 5 Coral formation
 6 Actor Ray
 7 Old Maid lay down
 8 Moves with stealth
 9 Sty fare
 10 Freshwater duck
 11 Legal right-of-way
 12 Letters
 13 One more letter addendum
 21 Mans the helm
 22 “Annabel Lee” poet
 26 Video-game hardware of old
 29 Nero’s lang.
 30 Gray shade
 31 Tranquility
 32 Ill-humored
 33 Closing passage
 34 Frightened
 35 One chosen
 36 Free leaflets
 37 They: Fr.
 38 Stephen of “Michael Collins”
 39 Abner’s old-time partner
 42 OSS, now
 43 Fiery felonies
 44 Biblical dancer
 45 Early arcade units
 46 Basic beliefs
 48 Getz and Lee
 50 Synthetic fabric
 52 Espy
 53 Pierre’s girlfriend
 54 Archibald of basketball
 55 Shot of whiskey 
 56 Letters on camerasBIKES
Ten-Speed Bike - $250. Nishiki in attractive 
condition. Basket and bell included. Listing 
ID: 240291289 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
80s Schwinn Road Bike Ten-Speed - $80. 
Schwinn road bike from the 80s. Very dura -
ble, string frame. Japanese parts. Recently 
tuned. Comes with lock, new handlebar 
tape and bottle holder. Listing ID: 24029129 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Intersekt Road Bike - $350. Almost new. 
Only had a few chances to ride it. $500 
retail. Will trade for equal value mountain 
bike. Listing ID: 239763833 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
ELECTRONICS
Two Brand New iPad Mini Cases - $30. 
Taking best offer. Will sell separately but 
cheaper for both. Brand new, unused. 
Listing ID: 240291384 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Beautiful 32” - $140. I’m selling my black RCA television. It’s beautiful and in exceptional 
condition. Only had it for two years. It has 
a DVD player connected to it. It’s jammed, 
but you can easily unjam it. Everything 
works perfectly. It comes with a remote. 
Listing ID: 240291369 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Beats Studio by Dr. Dre - $175. Brand 
new in box. Price is negotiable. Listing ID: 
239763883 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
FURNITURE
Roll Away Twin Bed - $30. Terrific condi -
tion. Clean mattress. Listing ID: 240291434 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Vintage Decorative Table - $100. I have a 
cherry wood colored high top decorative 
with a coral colored marble top. Listing ID: 
240291428 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Cute Dresser - $70. Matte blue French-
style dresser. Listing ID: 240291423 at ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
W\RXUYLVLRQ
RXUmLVVLRQ
madeWRRUdeU#XFVdedXCreate custom apparel to 
promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!www.ucsdguardian.org/advertising
#OMG 
#LIKE US
#FOLLOW US
@ucsdgua rdian
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 7, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
CINEMA
PRESENTS
MARCH 8 | 6PM | PC THEATER
DOORS OPEN AT 6PM| KEY NOTE SPEAKER AT 6:30PMCINEMA
Saturday’s Collegiate California 
Athletic Association semifinal pegged 
the two hottest teams in the conference 
against each other. No. 19 UCSD’s 10-
game winning streak was on the line as 
it faced off against Cal State East Bay in 
Stockton, California, and the Tritons 
could not prevail in a back-and-forth 
game that went to overtime. UCSD 
is now 24–4 overall and hopeful for a 
spot in the National Collegiate Athletic 
Association West Regionals, after 
clocking in at No. 3 in the West Region 
for the last ranking.
The second-seeded Tritons held 
a five-point lead with two minutes 
left, but could not hold on to win in 
regulation as they got into a hole at 
the beginning of overtime. Down 
two, senior guard Jamie Katuna and 
senior forward Farrah Shokoor both 
had the chance to tie the game up, but 
the Pioneers had the last word and 
advanced to the finals with a 79–77 
overtime win. 
“We came out of the gates and 
understood the level of intensity that 
they had, ” UCSD Head Coach Heidi 
V anDerveer told UCSD Athletics. “We 
were a little bit sloppy and not as sharp. 
In the second half, we got a lot sharper. ” 
The game was a back-and-forth 
affair, with 13 ties and 14 lead changes 
throughout the game. UCSD played 
extremely proficiently, shooting 51.7 
percent as a team and pouring in all 
12 of its free throws. However, much 
of the loss can be explained by the 
season-worst 23 turnovers committed 
by the team, out of which the Pioneers 
got 22 points. Most of the Tritons’ scoring came 
from three players. Katuna followed up 
her 29-point outing against Cal Poly 
Pomona on Tuesday by scoring 30 on 
the Pioneer defense, on a 65-percent 
shooting average. Shokoor, named the 
CCAA player of the year on Thursday, 
shot 8–15 from the field for 26 points 
and also grabbed 10 rebounds for her 
17th double-double of the season. 
Junior forward Cassie MacLeod had 
11 points off the bench, as she, Katuna 
and Shokoor accounted for 67 out of 
the Tritons’ 77 points. 
After one half of play, UCSD was 
trailing the Pioneers by only three 
points, 32–29. The Tritons went on 
to outscore Cal State East Bay 23–18 
in the third quarter, with 13 of these 
points coming from the senior duo of 
Shokoor and Katuna. 
However, UCSD went down by 
seven points in overtime, but managed 
to come back after two baskets from 
Katuna and junior guard Beth Mounier 
at only 39 seconds remaining in the 
game. Unfortunately, UCSD could not 
get another basket to sink and had to concede defeat. 
“Overtime was a little bit like the 
game, ” V anDerveer said. “They came 
out, jumped on us early and then we 
decided to come back to play. Jamie 
obviously is very offensive, and Farrah 
is as consistent a player that I’ve ever 
coached. The only thing that hurts 
me more than losing is to not give 
them an opportunity to cut down 
nets. They really deserved to have that 
opportunity. ”
The NCAA West Regional will be 
held March 11 to 14, with the winner 
of the bracket winning a ticket to the 
NCAA Championship, held in Sioux 
Falls, South Dakota.
“I think we have great character 
on our team, ” V anDerveer said. “I 
think once we process the missed 
opportunities here and once we 
understand that we have the chance to 
win six games and cut down another 
set of nets ... we’ll let this one sink in 
and get past it. ”W. BASKETBALL
Tritons Lose Nail Biter against East Bay
Katuna, then Shokoor miss a shot to win it in regulation and Pioneers prevail in OT.
BY  M a r c u s   t h u i l l i e r
sports editor
Readers can contact
Alex wu        With the win, the second-
seed Tritons knocked the third-
seed Broncos out of the CCAA 
tournament.
Game Two
Unfortunately for the Tritons, 
their two strong tournament 
wins would not help them against 
Humboldt State on Saturday night. 
In their third matchup of the 
season, the Tritons looked to settle 
the score against the Lumberjacks; a 
win would have meant winning the 
season series against their CCAA 
rivals, and more importantly, 
winning the CCAA tournament. 
But those aspirations would soon 
be crushed, as the Lumberjacks 
took control early with three three-
pointers during the first six minutes. 
Soon afterwards, Humboldt State 
would take its lead to double digits 
and control the game for the rest of 
the night after closing out the half on 
a three-pointer to take a 39–27 lead. 
Things didn’t get any better 
for the Tritons in the second half,  
however, since the Lumberjacks 
would strengthen their hold on 
the game, leading by as many as 
18 points with 6:55 remaining in 
the game. Of course, the Tritons 
wouldn’t go down without a fight; 
they were able to cut the deficit down to nine points, in large part 
due to freshman center Chris 
Hansen, who scored 21 of his 27 
points in the second half. Despite 
the late run, the Lumberjacks 
would once again regain control 
and go on to win the game 80–68.
Even with the rough night 
overall, the game still had its 
bright spots. Hansen’s 27 points 
off of seven of 10 shooting overall 
and perfection off of 13 attempts 
at the free-throw line were the 
most scored by anyone on either 
team. Dyer and Klie also had solid 
showings offensively, scoring 13 
and 12 points respectively, while 
sophomore guard Grant Jackson 
added another 11 points. Dyer also 
led the team with seven rebounds 
and five assists. Their efforts were 
not enough to keep up with the 
scorching-hot Lumberjacks, which 
shot a killer 26 of 44 overall and hit 
nine three-pointers.
“I think today was a little bit 
more about how they played well, 
versus some of the things we did, ” 
said UCSD Head Coach Eric Olen 
in his postgame press conference. 
“They really deserved it. ”
The Tritons will find out if 
they qualify for the NCAA West 
Regional on March 6 at 7:30 p.m.Looking Ahead to NCAA West Regionals
▶ M. BASKETBALL,  from page 12
Follow us on Twitter!
@UCSD_SportsPHOTO BY MEGAN LEE
Readers can contact
marcus thuillier        First Ever All-UC Championship WinCONTACT THE EDITOR
MARCUS THUILLIER
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 7, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
week  in
summar y
MEN'S
BASKETBALL
WOMEN'S
BASKETBALL
TRACK  &  FIELDUCSD
UCSD
UCSD
Men’s
Women’sCal Poly Pomona
Humboldt State
Cal State East Bay72 - 65
68 - 80
77 - 79
1st out of 3
2nd out of 3
Coming off one of the most 
exciting finishes in recent memory, 
the UCSD men’s basketball team 
certainly had momentum on its side. 
But to win the California Collegiate 
Athletic Association tournament, 
the Tritons needed more than just 
momentum. Unfortunately, even 
after a strong win against Cal Poly 
Pomona, the Tritons fell to Humboldt 
State in the championship game.
Game One
Riding euphorically off of their 
riveting overtime victory against 
Sonoma State, the Tritons hoped to 
come away with a victory without 
the need of any late-game heroics. 
The team accomplished just that 
thanks to their strong start against 
Cal Poly Pomona on Friday night. 
After sending the Broncos to the 
free-throw line fifteen seconds into 
the game, the Triton offense kicked 
into gear, going on a 9–0 run to lead 9–1 just four minutes into the game. 
While the Broncos stayed within 
striking distance for the entire 
game, the Tritons never allowed 
themselves to lose control of the 
game, playing like the dominant 
team the Tritons were known as for 
most of the season.
They held the lead during the 
first half in large part due to their 
tough defense, harassing the Bronco 
offense into shooting only nine of 
25 overall and committing seven 
turnovers, which the Triton offense 
turned into 12 points. Regardless of 
that, however, the offense had a bit 
of a rough outing from the three-
point line, converting only four of 
their 16 attempts from downtown. 
Still, the Tritons were able to knock 
down 12 of their 27 overall attempts 
in the half, leading them to a 32–24 
advantage at the half.
But, with the start of the second 
half, the match would turn into a 
shootout as the two teams matched 
each other offensively for the final 20 minutes. The Broncos finally 
found their stroke, and their 
shooting improved to a solid 13 of 
28 for the half. However, thanks to 
the Tritons’ improved three-point 
shot, and ability to consistently get 
to the free-throw line, they were able 
to match the Broncos’ 41 points with 
40 points of their own. The Tritons 
then held on, winning 72–65.
Leading the team in scoring 
was sophomore guard Anthony 
Ballestero, who had a career night 
with 16 points and three rebounds. 
Just short of Ballestero’s game-
high output was senior forward 
Drew Dyer, who rounded out the 
game with an impressive stat-
line of 15 points from five three-
pointers, seven rebounds and five 
assists. Adding to the team’s stellar 
performance was junior guard Adam 
Klie who earned himself yet another 
double-double with an impressive 
13 points and 10 rebounds. The UCSD men’s track and field team won the All-UC Championships, defeating UC Irvine and UC Santa 
Barbara at the Triton Track and Field Stadium on Saturday and securing UCSD’s first-ever UC-Championship win. 
The Triton men led the way with 143 points while the Gauchos were second with 141 and the Anteaters finished off 
with 97 points; the Triton women finished second with 123 points, UCSB finished first with 169.5 and UC Irvine 
finished third in both the men and women’s competition. On the day, the Tritons won 11 events, seven by the men 
and four by the women.
UCSD was losing to the Gauchos 137–136 with one event left, the 4x400 relay, but junior sprinter Jared 
Senese anchored the relay team and raced past the Anteaters for first place in the last 200 meters, finishing with 
a time of 3:16.12. The Gauchos were last in the race, making it a three-point swing for UCSD.
“It’s exciting, ” UCSD Head Coach Tony Salermo told UCSD Athletics. “That’s kind of what all of us 
coaches like in track and field in those team competitions, that it comes down to the relay. We were so 
excited to get this win against a one of our big West opponents. ”
The Triton women also won the women’s 4x400 with a time of 3:52.80 while the men finished first in 
the 4x100 with a team of redshirt senior sprinter Keith Rose, sophomore sprinter Justin Hunter, junior 
sprinter Emmanuel Elijah and sophomore sprinter Paul Doan and a time of 41.23. With a time of 
21.69, Doan won the 200 and placed second in the 100, running a 10.87, while Senese finished second 
in the 800, losing by just .09 seconds with the time 1:53.33.
The Triton women took the first three spots in the women’s 3000 as senior distance runners 
Paige Hughes, Corinne Hinkle and Chloe Gustafson finished in 9:58.58, 10:05.70 and 10:06.84, 
respectively. During the 3000 for the men, senior distance runner Tareq Alwafai finished 
second in 8:28.46.
UCSD won five events total on the 
field and sophomore jumper Matt 
Bowen won two of these, winning 
the long jump with a personal best of 
25’0’ .5” . The jump was also a school record, 
a provisional qualifier for the NCAAs and the 
best score in the nation across all NCAA 
divisions. Bowen also placed first in the triple jump with a score of 48’44.75” while junior long-jumper Casey 
Buck was first in the women’s side of the long jump with a mark of 18’3.25” .
“It’s pretty remarkable for a sophomore, ” Salermo said about Bowen. “The long jump is [only] his 
secondary event. ”
With a personal best of 209’6” , redshirt senior thrower Anthony Capitulo finished first in the men’s javelin. Meanwhile, senior 
throwers Haley Libuit and Ellexi Snover finished second and fourth, respectively, in the women’s javelin.
“My goal for the year is to hit 70 meters, ” Capitulo told UCSD Athletics. “I want to be an All-American. I want to be up there 
and I think I can really do it. ”
Junior pole vaulter Chrissi Carr and sophomore pole vaulter Devin Stetson finished first and second in the women’s pole vault with scores 
of 12” and 11’6.25, ” respectively. 
UCSD will host the the San Diego Collegiate Challenge on March 12.
M. BASKETBALL
Tritons Reach CCAA Finals but Cannot Defeat Humboldt State
BY  A l e x  W u
Staff Writer
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE /UCSD GUARDIANUCSD dominates Cal Poly Pomona in the semis, but the loss of several key players on injuries cripples them in the final against the Jacks. Written by Dev Jain // Associate Editor
Photos by Megan Lee Men take ﬁrst, women ﬁnish second behind UCSB.
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEEUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM. Tennis
W. Tennis
W. Tennis
Softball
Baseball3/7
3/7
3/9
3/10
3/10VS Georgetown
VS Barry
VS Palm Beach Atlantic
VS Sonoma State
VS Cal State Dominguez Hills
Readers can contact
aelx  wu   adw006@ucsd.edu    
See M. BASKETBALL , page 11