VOLUME 49, ISSUE 56   THURSDA Y , MA Y 19, 2016  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
FISHING FOR 
ANSWERS
THE UCSD GUARDIAN LISTENS 
TO LINDSEY COLLINS AND 
ANDREW STANTON OF 
“FINDING NEMO” FAME CHAT 
CHALLENGES AND HIDDEN 
REFERENCES IN PIXAR’S 
UPCOMING “FINDING DORY.” 
LIBRAR Y W ALK  DISPLA Y S
TENNIS HEADED TO  NCAA'S ADMNISTRA TIVE  INVOL VEMENT
DEFEA TS  APU   COUGAR S  5-1OPINION, P AGE 4
sports,  P age  12
THURSDAY 
H 69 L 60FRIDAY
H 65 L 60
SATURDAY
H 66 L 61SUNDAY
H 67 L 60
FORECAST
VERBATIM
THAT THE UNIVERSITY ’S RECORD  
RUNS CONTRADICTORY  TO THE 
EXCUSES  IT GAVE FABELLA  
CAUSES  US TO WONDER  IF THE 
TRUE MOTIVATION  BEHIND  THE 
ADMINISTRATION ’S ORDERS  HAD 
NOTHING  TO DO WITH LOGISTICS  
BUT INSTEAD  HAD TO DO WITH 
THE IMAGES  THEMSELVES , WHICH , 
ACCORDING  TO FABELLA , WERE  
EXPLICITLY  CALLED  “ABRASIVE .”
— GUARDIAN  EDITORIAL  
BOARD
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
BIG BANG  ....................... 2
STUDENT  ATHLETES  .....3
COMMUNAL COFFEE  .......9
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU  ..10
W. WATER POLO  ............ 12“WEEKEND,  P AGE  6
PHOTO  COURTESY OF WALT DISNEY STUDIOS  
The UC Board of Regents approved 
a 14-point proposal to reform 
student-athlete policies last Thursday, 
which includes the continuation of 
scholarships for UC student-athletes 
who suffer career-ending injuries. A 
group of UC athletic directors under the 
leadership of Lt. Gov. Gavin Newsom 
developed the recommendations to 
improve the academic and emotional 
well-being of college athletes. 
Next year’s Triton Athletes’ Council 
President and current sophomore 
pitcher John Erhardt explained the 
importance of continued scholarships 
for student-athletes who also “pride 
[them]selves in academics. ”
“[Without a scholarship,] it is 
possible a student-athlete will no 
longer be able to afford college and 
will potentially have to drop out... and 
no longer be able to graduate, ” Erhardt told the UCSD Guardian.
The new policy is estimated to triple 
the number of scholarships awarded 
for UC student-athletes, which was 
2,686 last year. UCSD documented 
$307,300 in scholarship funds for 
314 recipients last year, averaging 
$980 per scholarship. 
Senior Kyra Scott, TAC executive 
board member and women’s tennis 
captain, related scholarships to career 
payments for the competitive efforts 
made by student-athletes.
“ Athletes are given scholarships 
in return for all of the hard work 
and time that they put into training 
and competing in their sport and to 
represent their school in the NCAA 
— it’s almost like a job, ” Scott said. 
“Some people may be opposed to 
funding athletes with career-ending 
injuries because they cannot sever 
this purpose. ”
UCLA and UC Berkeley will 
not be affected by this policy since both already implement Pacific-12 
Conference rules requiring four-year 
scholarships and expanded financial 
aid for student-athletes. UC Santa 
Cruz and UC Merced, which are 
Division III schools that do not offer 
scholarships, were also excluded from 
the resolution.
Regent Eloy Ortiz Oakley 
commended the guidelines for 
affirming the UC system’s commitment 
to academic success. 
“We should not ever underestimate 
our students, ” Oakley told The 
Sacramento Bee. “We should not ever 
rob them of their opportunity to gain a 
degree. Because the most valuable asset 
we have is not athletic achievement; it 
is a degree from the University of 
California, and that should always be 
the priority. ”
Newsom expressed his concerns 
that the university had established 
low academic standards, prioritizing Services for 
Undocumented 
Students to Get 
More FundingUC SYSTEM
Approximately $8.4 million 
will be distributed among 
resources, including the 
DREAM Loan program.
BY   l a u r e n   h o l t
The UC Office of the President 
announced on May 11 that it will 
increase funding for undocumented 
student resources over the next 
three years, and $8.4 million will be 
distributed   across all 10 UC campuses 
annually for programs to share.  
The increased funding will be split 
between three areas of services: the 
University of California’s DREAM 
Loan program, student services staff 
coordinators and student fellowships, 
and the UC system’s Undocumented 
Legal Services Center. The DREAM 
Loan program, which provides loans 
to undocumented students that 
are then paid back directly into the 
DREAM program, will receive $5 
million per year, while $2.5 million 
will be designated each year for the 
coordinators and fellowships. The 
Undocumented Legal Services Center, 
which is located on the UC Davis 
campus but provides free legal services 
for all UC campuses that do not have 
a law school for undocumented 
students and their families, will receive 
$900,000 annually. According to the 
Elica Vafaie, the center’s supervising 
attorney, the funding increase will 
likely be used to bolster existing 
services and develop new programs at 
campuses with law schools.
“With the increased funding, it is 
wonderful that there is an opportunity 
to expand the immigration legal 
services in partnership and support 
with other local campuses that do 
have law schools, ” Vafaie told the 
UCSD Guardian. “UC Berkeley has 
its own separate funding, but to be 
able to provide equity of access to the 
immigration legal services across all 
campuses is something that we are 
very excited about. The students and 
everyone have been working hard 
towards this goal. ”
UC President Janet Napolitano 
originally allocated $5 million to 
provide support for undocumented 
student resources in Fall 2013 when 
she launched the Undocumented 
Students Initiative. However, by 
increasing the amount of funding the 
programs will receive by almost five 
times as much over the course of three 
years, Napolitano believes the plans to 
build upon existing UC programs will 
benefit undocumented students. 
“We are committed to continuing 
a path forward for undocumented 
students at the University of California, ” 
Napolitano said in a press release. 
“This funding will further strengthen 
the university’s undocumented student 
initiative, and help ensure that these 
students receive the support and 
resources they need to succeed. ”
With the initial $5 million set to 
expire in June, many students feared 
that Napolitano would not renew 
funding for undocumented services. UCAB Votes Not to Renew 
Round Table Pizza Lease
The University Centers Advisory Board 
unanimously voted not to renew Round Table 
Pizza’s lease on May 3. The restaurant’s lease is set 
to expire on June 30, 2017.
In a public statement, UCAB identified lukewarm 
student reception, “lower sales, food quality, low use of 
the dining space, and emerging student interests and food 
trends” as reasons leading to the resolution. The data came 
from various student surveys and secret shopper data.
UCAB Vice Chair Luke W ang highlighted that many 
details were considered in the decision-making process, but 
not all of them could be disclosed to the public.
“UCAB’s decision was made with a lot of factors, ” 
W ang told the UCSD Guardian. “Not all factors can be 
made public due to confidential nature, but we try our best 
to convey all the information we were able to announce 
publicly so students can understand this issue. ” 
UCAB Chair Claire Maniti described this year as the best 
time to end Round Table Pizza’s lease because there would 
be no overlap with the closure of another alcohol-providing 
business. Once Round Table Pizza closes, students will be 
able to shift their patronage to the new establishment that 
will be replacing Porter’s Pub.
“The pub space that used to be at Porter’s Pub will be opening up as [Round Table Pizza’s] lease expires, ” Maniti 
said. “One of the things we were concerned about was that 
we don’t have two major alcohol-providing vendors on 
campus closed. ”
Donna Buhl, the owner of the Round Table Pizza at Price 
Center, attributed the low sales numbers to her decision to 
make pizza more affordable for students.
“The reason why our sales were one of the lowest was 
because I have been very conscientious about the students 
and what they could pay, ” Buhl said. “When we first came 
here, [our goal] was making students happy and making 
[the food] affordable. ”
Buhl expressed her frustration with certain restrictions 
that prevented her from using outdoor freestanding signs 
for advertising.
“When I put out the A-signs on Library Walk, [UCAB] 
told me I wasn’t allowed to do that, ” Buhl told the Guardian. 
“So here I am trying to promote [Round Table Pizza], but 
I’m not allowed to do it. ” 
Some UCSD students showed their support of Round 
Table Pizza by signing an online petition urging UCAB to 
reconsider its decision.
“Round Table has provided a welcoming environment, 
amazing food and friendly service, ” the petition stated. B y  kevin  santos      CAMPUS
Campuses Guarantee Grants for Injured Athletes
The measure will ensure that student athletes retain their scholarships after career-ending injuries.See ROUND TABLE , page 3
UC SYSTEM
By  l i sa  c h i k
See UNDOCUMENTED , page 3 See ATHLETES , page 3Photo by Patrick Lazo / UCSD Guardian2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 19, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
TRIUMPHANT #8 By Alex Liang
#UCSDNEWS
#NOFILTERS @ucsdguardian#FOLLOW USThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. “The more and more I talk about this, the more 
and more I actually want it” — B. Lu on ability to teleport 
because paring sucks.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Marketing Co-Directors
Peter McInnis, Haley Asturias
Training and Development Manager
Cedric Hyon
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Vincent Pham
Tina Butoiu
Jacky To
Josh Lefler
Quinn Pieper
Marcus Thuillier
Dev Jain
Allison Kubo
Oliver Kelton
Karly Nisson
Sam Velaquez
Brittney Lu
Olga Golubkova
Megan Lee
Christian Duarte
Joselynn Ordaz
Kenji Bennett
Ayat Amin
Christina Carlson
Sophia Huang
Jennifer Grundman
Sage Schubert ChristianEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
News Editor
 
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Co-Editor
Features Editor
Associate Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Multimedia Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editors
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Vanessa Wong
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim, Alicia Ho, Lisa Chik
Editorial Assistants
Naftali Burakovsky, Nathaniel Walker, Lisa Chik,
Maria SebasNew Observatory Aims to Capture Moments Following Big Bang
The Simons Observatory, which costs $40 million to build, will measure fluctuations in the cosmic microwave background.SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGSee MoreInternational Documentary Film Series  
May 23, 7pm Landmark Hillcrest Cinema  
Benefitting the International Rescue Committee in San Diego  
Students: $10 General: $15  
This film represents the views of the filmmaker and does not represent formal positions of the International Rescue Committee . Follow a common migration path through Ethiopia and into Israel, 
tracking the plight of Eritrean refugees. Guest Speaker: David Mur-
phy, Executive Director - IRC in San Diego. Previously IRC Country 
Director in Ethiopia, Afghanistan, and Somalia.  
Purchase tickets at Rescue.org/Films or at the door  
A team of researchers, including 
astrophysicists from UCSD, will 
receive $40 million in grant money 
from the Simons Foundation and 
Heising-Simons Foundation for 
the construction of the Simons 
Observatory in Chile, the university 
announced on May 12. The 
observatory will build upon two 
existing facilities in the Atacama 
Desert, the Simons Array and 
Atacama Cosmology Telescope, 
and measure the cosmic microwave 
background (CMB) of the early 
universe to decipher the mysteries 
of the Big Bang. 
The CMB is leftover thermal 
radiation from the Big Bang; it 
fills the universe with a faint 
glow and can be detected in any 
direction. Mark Devlin, a professor 
of astronomy and astrophysics at 
the University of Pennsylvania and 
project spokesman, explained to 
the UCSD Guardian how the CMB will help researchers detect events 
that occurred in the beginning of 
the universe.
“The CMB last interacted with 
matter around 380,000 years after 
the Big Bang and since then it’s been 
traversing through the universe until 
we detected it here, ” Devlin said. “In 
the intervening time it passes by 
the universe as it’s evolving and 
growing structures… and they all 
leave a slight imprint of the effect; 
it’s usually due to some gravitational 
effect on the CMB itself. So we can 
look for those slight deviations, and 
that helps us to understand how the 
universe evolved over cosmic time. ”
Devlin further explained that the 
dense, high-energy state of the early 
universe created gravitational waves 
that propagate through the universe 
and leave a specific pattern, the 
primordial “B-mode polarization, ” 
on the CMB. Researchers will also 
observe this pattern in order to gain 
a better understanding of the early 
universe’s evolution. 
Brian Keating, UCSD professor of physics and astrophysicist at UC 
San Diego’s Center for Astrophysics 
& Space Sciences, told the UCSD 
Guardian that the Simons Observatory 
will set a new benchmark for research 
reliant on CMB.
“It’s going to be an array of 
several telescopes that will be 
extremely sensitive, using the most 
sensitive detectors that have ever 
been built, ” Keating said. “These 
detectors will extend our reach and 
understanding of the universe back 
to almost the very beginning of time 
if we can measure the imprint of the 
signal that we’re looking for…  A lot 
of telescopes can measure the CMB 
but they don’t have our sensitivity 
or our ability to map most of the 
entire universe, and they don’t have 
the size and quality of the team that 
we’ve assembled. ” 
Moreover, Devlin explained 
that the Simons Observatory 
will not function as a traditional 
observatory since the telescopes will 
not serve as optical telescopes, but 
will specifically measure CMB. The team will be made up of 
researchers from UCSD, UCB, 
the University of Pennsylvania, 
Princeton University and the 
Lawrence Berkeley National 
Laboratory. Keating clarified that 
these institutions were selected 
to receive the grants totaling $40 
million over the course of five years 
because of advancements they’ve 
made in the field of cosmology. 
“We are building the most 
advanced telescopes and detectors 
and infrastructures for this type 
of research,” Keating said. “Many 
of the groups that are trying to 
do this are competitors around 
the world, and we initiated a 
collaboration with the preeminent 
universities that are pursuing 
this research... the [institutions 
involved in the project] are really 
doing some of the finest research 
and development in this field of 
technology and cosmology. ”BY   k a r l y   n i s s o n
karl y nisson   knisson@ucsd.eduTo protest this, students blocked 
off UC Berkeley’s Sather Gate on 
April 16 — this year’s Cal Day — 
and called on the Napolitano to 
secure additional funds to keep the 
programs alive.  
Vafaie noted that providing 
support for undocumented students 
is important because undocumented 
students need specialized resources in order to develop personally and 
academically. 
“Since California is home to about 
2.5 million undocumented individuals 
who are a tremendous and important 
part of our society, our economy and 
part of the UC system, it is important 
that the [university system] provide a 
range of services to the students and 
their families so that they can thrive 
and grow in the university and in 
society, ” V afaie said. “There are huge educational and personal benefits 
to having undocumented student 
coordinators, grants and scholarships 
for students to alleviate financial 
barriers to education and access to 
immigration legal services which can 
often result in a work permit or a 
permanent form of immigration relief 
for the student or their parents. ”“Their service for the last 27 years has 
been wonderful, and it would be a 
shame if we do not have Round Table 
in the future!”
Revelle College senior Alex 
O’Connor shared that he often goes to 
Round Table Pizza for its low-priced 
deals and so he can watch televised 
sporting events.
“The primary reason I go to 
Round Table is for their daily deals, 
particularly on Tuesdays because 
I enjoy the $2 deal on pizza, and a 
deal for $3 mimosas on Fridays, ” 
O’Connor told the Guardian. “They 
also have many TVs, so I’ll go there 
to watch games. ”Wang clarified, however, that 
although Round Table Pizza is 
often given praise for the television 
displays, the displays are actually 
made possible by University Centers. 
Given the sports broadcasts’ 
popularity among students, a 
similar setup may be in place with 
the new vendor.
“I think there is a distinction 
that needs to be made between 
what is Round Table and what is 
funded and organized by University 
Centers, ” Wang said. “For example, 
the TVs inside Round Table and 
the programming are funded by 
University Centers. With the new 
vendor, we can consider it as an 
option since students really enjoy it. ”Buhl stated that she will continue 
to manage Round Table with the 
same level of generosity she has 
always provided.
“I’m not going to operate any 
differently, ” Buhl said. “I’m going 
to operate as usual, give all the 
discounts I normally do, be friendly 
and love our customers. ”
Maniti disclosed that UCAB will 
select a new vendor for the space by 
Winter Quarter 2017, following the 
request for proposals process. As of 
now, there is no concept in place for 
what will replace Round Table Pizza.NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 19, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
LET BLUEPRINT DRAMATICALLY 
INCREASE YOUR LSAT SCORE.
888-4-BP-PREP
blueprintlsat.com
Summer courses to prep for the 
September LSAT begin  June 26 . Use 
promo code SAVE100 to get $100 off 
the San Diego classroom course! 
We now stream 
UCSD’s A.S. Council 
meeting live every 
Wednesday night 
at 6 p.m on the 
“UCSD Guardian” 
Youtube channel.G-SPAN
A.S.COUNCIL 
LIVE!Administration Will Select Replacement For Round Table in Winter 2017
▶ ROUND TABLE,  from page 1
kevin santos   kksantos@ucsd.eduReaders can cont act
Students Protested for More Funding of  Undocumented Student Programs
Lauren  Hol t   LCHOLT@ucsd.eduReaders can cont act
Proposal Also Includes Increased Academic Support for Student Athletes
athletic performance over academics. 
“The whole thing is predicated 
on our moral authority that these are 
student-athletes, ” Newsom said at a 
meeting. “Y et in revenue-generating 
sports, that’s very questionable at best. 
Survey after survey finds that these 
kids are spending 50-plus hours a week 
on these endeavors. ”
The “guiding principles” of the 
proposal stress academic support 
and student welfare, including a limit of 20 hours  of practice 
per week. Additionally, coaches 
will not have “decision-making 
authority” over admissions, athletic 
departments will provide academic 
counselors specifically trained to 
work with student-athletes, new 
athlete orientations will cover sexual 
misconduct, mental health and 
diversity, and student-athletes will 
have priority in registering for classes.
Assistant Athletics Director Abrina 
Wheatfall explained that UCSD 
already offers resources in line with the new policies for student-athletes 
needing extra academic help.
“Our department provides some 
tutoring in math, chemistry, physics 
and some biology — since student-
athletes often can’t make other tutoring 
options, such as OASIS, due to practice 
and competition schedule conflicts, ” 
Wheatfall told the Guardian. “Most 
of the tutors are peers, consisting of 
current and graduate student-athletes. ”▶ UNDOCUMENTED,  from page 1
▶ ATHLETES,  from page 1
LISA  CHIK  LCHIK@ucsd.eduReaders can cont act4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 19, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
QUINN PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
LETTERS  TO  THE  EDITOR:   READ  TWO   ALUMNI'S  PERSPECTIVES  ON  THE  VOTE   FOR  UCSD'S  MOVE  TO   D1  A THLETICS
I would like to take a moment to 
address a campus issue that is extremely 
important to me: the upcoming vote to move 
our athletics program into the NCAA Division 
I. I write this with firm appreciation and 
awareness that your decision is a personal one 
and that you will be living with the change as 
opposed to my opining from the bleachers. 
That being said, I want to press upon you that a 
successful jump into Division I would be a huge 
win both in the short term for you as UCSD 
students and in the long term for you as soon-
to-be UCSD alums. 
For some of you, the possibility of a Tritons 
March Madness berth is reason enough to 
cast your vote next week. However, even for 
those of you not interested in sports, helping 
UCSD become a Division-I school will affect 
you directly. A Division-I athletics program 
broadens the campus experience, bringing with 
it increased campus pride, a healthy rivalry 
with neighboring schools and a greater sense of 
belonging in the community — even when it is 
a virtual one.
Moreover, a move to Division I would 
help upgrade UCSD’s visibility and stature. 
As the CEO of a firm that advises media and 
technology companies, I know firsthand that 
brand is everything. A successful brand has 
incredible benefits: It can increase a company’s 
earning potential and scale, and help it gain traction in the competitive marketplace. 
UCSD is a brand. By voting to associate us 
with NCAA Division-I sports — one of the 
biggest draws for college admissions — you will 
be elevating UCSD in the eyes of prospective 
students, and help to bring in the best new 
academic talent. Remember, these students will 
be the future of your alumni network.
The direct benefits you reap from a bolstered 
UCSD brand do not end there. We all know 
first-hand the level of our academic excellence. 
The prestige that comes with an NCAA 
Division-I sports program will help increase 
awareness of UCSD’s excellence to the broader 
community, which will in turn give you a leg 
up when it comes time to show your resume to 
potential employers.
Division-I athletics at UCSD will bring 
profound short-term and long term gains for 
you and for the university as a whole. Please 
don’t pass up this chance to make our great 
school even better. As Wayne Gretsky famously 
said, “Y ou miss 100 percent of the shots you 
don’t take. ” Next week you have a real shot 
at shaping the future of your school. I urge 
you to take it. Vote to make UCSD an NCAA 
Division-I school.
Aryeh B. Bourkoff, ‘96
Founder and CEO of LionTree, LLC
displa y
denied
ILLUSTRA TION   B Y CHRISTINA  CARLSON
Students gathered in the area around the Silent Tree last 
Wednesday morning to observe an art display consisting of seven 
paintings on giant boards that addressed social issues such as 
police brutality, voting and race. Stretching over six feet tall, the 
boards depicted images like the Statue of Liberty, a voting box 
and other symbols representing aspects of American society 
that have recently been heavily critiqued. However, not long 
after they were assembled, a campus official demanded that 
A.S. Vice President of External Affairs Krystl Fabella, whose 
office provided the display, remove the display on the basis that 
the boards posed a threat to the safety of students due to their 
potential instability and that Fabella needed to reserve space for 
her displays. Despite the administration’s excuses for removing 
the exhibit, it has habitually lacked a response to other displays 
and demonstrations on Library Walk and at the Silent Tree in 
the past, when A.S. campaigns used similarly unaffixed boards. 
This makes it clear that the university’s decision to shut down 
the exhibit was completely unfounded and denied students the 
opportunity to understand the art and its message. 
In an email to the UCSD Guardian, UCSD Communications 
Manager Christine Clark addressed the notion that the boards 
were a hazard to students by saying, “This display, which 
consisted of seven large boards, was not affixed to a stable 
support structure and [was] susceptible to being blown over. ” 
Y et, there have been multiple instances in the past in which 
students and other organizations have used similar boards 
without interference from the administration. During this past 
A.S. election, both the Tritons United and Students Determined 
slates had multiple wooden boards standing in the area around 
the Silent Tree, propped up by either plastic pipe or small pieces 
of wood attached to the base. According to A.S. Elections Manager Claire Maniti, these boards, about six or seven feet 
in height, advertising for slates and campaigns, have actually 
fallen over “onto Library Walk and onto the area by the Silent 
Tree, nearly crushing passers-by.” Even more recently, a group of 
Christian evangelists took up the area near the start of Library 
W alk wielding signs nearly ten feet tall that stated “HOMO SEX 
IS A SIN” and other religious claims that, when leaned against 
benches or trees, had no support mechanism.  
Had the size and structure of Fabella’s boards been a true 
concern of the administration’s, surely some existing policy 
would be in place dictating the dimensions and support of 
displays along Library W alk and the area surrounding the 
Silent Tree. Given that there has been no recent precedent for 
the administration to remove tall, free-standing displays, the 
concerns expressed that supposedly prompted the removal of Fabella’s display seem insincere and likely a poor excuse to justify 
shutting down an act of student expression.
Clark also explained that “had the display been reserved 
through the proper channels, then measures could have been 
taken in advance to ensure they were safely installed, ” suggesting 
that the administration also took issue with the fact that Fabella 
did not reserve the space around the Silent Tree. However, the 
area around the Silent Tree has historically been a free-speech 
zone in which students are not required to request space for 
their events or booths like they are for Library W alk. When 
the Guardian spoke with Brother Aden, one of the evangelists 
preaching in roughly the same place as where Fabella’s displays 
were, Brother Aden noted that he had in no way informed the 
university of his group’s presence but faced no reprisal from the 
administration. Furthermore, throughout the school year, the 
area around the Silent Tree has been a place for students to freely 
protest, such as the #ChalkBack event responding to pro-Trump 
and anti-immigration chalkings, campaign and hold vigils. That 
Fabella would be required to ask for permission in order to use 
an area that Clark herself described as “not a reservable space” 
makes little sense. 
This contradiction, combined with the administration’s 
inaction against similarly “unsafe” displays in the past, leads us 
to question why the university chose to single out this specific 
one. The fact that the university’s record runs contradictory 
to the excuses it gave Fabella causes us to wonder if the true 
motivation behind the administration’s orders had nothing to do 
with logistics but instead had to do with the images themselves, 
which, according to Fabella, were explicitly called “abrasive” and 
“offensive. ” If so, if the university did indeed censor its students, 
then it is not the guardian of free speech it implies it is.The concerns that 
supposedly prompted the 
removal of  Fabella’s display 
seem like a poor excuse to 
justify shutting down an act 
of  student expression.
The purveyors of the trickle-
down benefit theory of intercollegiate 
athletics would have you believe in the same 
kind of magical thinking that lures people 
into buying lottery tickets: a fanciful promise 
of fame and fortune that any reality-based 
analysis demonstrates to be an exceedingly 
poor investment decision. This is coupled 
with the time-honored psychological 
tactic of a “phased implementation”; the 
superficially less expensive decision of the 
present is easier because it forever mortgages 
the finances of future generations of 
students. Further appeasement of the unsure 
is accomplished by the diversionary “no 
football” ploy.
Study after study has shown that the true 
beneficiaries of the enormous resources 
dumped into sports departments are almost 
exclusively those departments themselves, 
the vast majority of which nevertheless run 
significant deficits. The over $9 million 
in annual ICA fees currently extracted 
from students subsidizes an enterprise in 
which a mere 2 percent of undergraduates 
are athletes, and yet now a substantially 
larger financial burden is justified with 
the mythical claim that it will somehow 
tangentially improve everyone’s job prospects 
upon graduation (because employers and 
grad schools care not about academic qualifications, but rather what teams made 
it to which finals). It’s hardly a coincidence 
that those marketing the imposition of even 
more fees will also most directly benefit 
when this new windfall is funneled into their 
coffers and wallets.
In its first 50 years, UC San Diego 
has grown to be an enviable academic 
powerhouse, a reputation built upon the 
combination of outstanding students and 
first-rate research. This excellence is a 
genuine source of pride and school spirit 
that is earned, not purchased. In a country 
where the highest paid state officials are 
overwhelmingly college coaches, is the model 
of an expansive athletic empire really one we 
want to emulate, or do we stay true to what 
has, over the past half-century, made us all 
unequivocally unique and exceptional among 
our peers? A vote for Division I is a vote for 
a costly conformity that will now and always 
tax the many to benefit an elite few.
David J. Hutches, ‘93
Chief Technology Officer and Director
Jacobs School of Engineering
UC San DiegoPRO CONOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 19, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
Last week the UC Board of 
Regents voted to guarantee the 
continuation of athletic scholarships 
for student-athletes who have 
suffered career-ending injuries 
at UC Davis, UC Riverside, UC 
Irvine, UC Santa Barbara and UC 
San Diego. The expansion of these 
benefits — guaranteed to both 
UCLA and Berkeley student-athletes 
since 2012 — reflects a newly 
kindled interest in the well-being of 
our university’s collegiate athletes, 
particularly off the field and in the 
classroom. This decision comes at a 
particularly pertinent time for UC 
athletics as many, if not most, of its 
athletic programs are undergoing 
at least some form of transition. 
UC Berkeley, still reeling from the 
controversy that surrounded its use 
of taxpayers’ money to renovate the 
historic football stadium, suffers 
from an unsustainable budget as 
well as poor academic performance 
from its athletes. UC Santa Cruz, 
left out of the policy change as 
the only Division-III UC campus, 
is voting on whether to keep or 
remove its athletic program entirely, 
whereas our own school is voting 
this week on whether to upgrade 
to Division I. Wherever the fates 
of these programs may land, and 
regardless of the future of UCSD as 
a Division-I university, this move 
should be warmly welcomed.
Student-athletes have been 
a reliant source of income for 
universities since the institutions 
first started on their paths toward 
commercialization many decades ago. Today, athletes draw crowds 
who will pay good money to 
experience the thrill of watching a 
collegiate sports game live. Ticket 
sales, merchandise and marketing 
rights all compound this to generate 
huge amounts of revenue for 
advertisers and universities. Last 
year, the NCAA generated $912.3 
million in revenue, most of which 
came from marketing rights tied 
to the annual Division-I basketball 
tournament. Student-athletes have 
become veritable cash cows, but 
they don’t see a cent of this profit.
With the potential to generate 
huge amounts of profit, these 
student-athletes have spurred a rat 
race between universities to recruit 
these individuals with enticing 
financial scholarships, lax academic 
requirements and other benefits. 
But this hospitality, in most cases, 
only extends as far as athletes can 
continue to produce results. The 
NCAA bylaws 2.3.4.8 and 3.2.4.8.1 
require student-athletes to have 
their own medical insurance in 
order to cover athletic injuries. 
Furthermore, NCAA-member 
institutions are not required to 
cover what the insurance does not, 
meaning that in the case of injuries 
on the field that result in costly 
treatment, student athletes and 
their families are potentially left 
to front the bill. The NCAA itself 
will only cover the cost if it exceeds 
$90,000 under its Catastrophic 
Injury Insurance Program. While 
life-threatening injuries are covered, 
non-fatal, yet crippling, injuries are not, which can easily end athletic 
participation in the field.
The NCAA reports, on average, 
over 12,500 injuries annually. An 
injury that prevents students from 
competing is grounds for losing 
a scholarship. Furthermore, if the 
price tag sits between the student’s 
insurance coverage and the NCAA ’s 
$90,000 threshold, institutions are 
not even required to front the bill. A 
freak accident on the field or during 
training could spell the end of not 
only a student’s athletic career, but 
that student’s academic one as well 
if there’s a scholarship tied to the 
student’s athletics. This is certainly 
not the treatment you would 
expect the administration to give 
to students who contribute both a 
significant amount of school spirit 
and revenue to the university.
While the UC system is not 
as large a perpetrator of this 
exploitation of students compared 
to other institutions, ensuring 
that student-athletes retain their 
scholarships regardless of chance 
injuries is a positive step toward 
recognizing athletes as students 
and as valued contributors to a university. The UC system should 
be commended even further 
for extending these benefits to 
its smaller schools outside of 
California’s “Big Four”: UCLA, 
Berkeley, Stanford and USC. 
Although these schools do not 
generate nearly as much profit as 
bigger Division-I schools, taking 
this step toward treating all student-
athletes equally within the system is 
a positive one. 
The extension of these 
benefits should not be seen as 
an afront to academics: whereas 
UCLA and UC Berkeley are UC 
institutions entrenched in the 
dogma of collegiate sports and 
its commercialization, other UC 
schools are primarily focused on 
academics. Student-athletes at 
these UC institutions have a higher 
average GPA than the one of the 
student body at large, with at least 
60 percent of UCSD’s student-
athlete population earning a GPA 
higher than 3.00. Student athletes 
should not have to worry about the 
next significant injury jeopardizing 
the affordability of continuing their 
academic career.
Regents Park Row
La Jolla Village DriveGenesseeRegents RoadExecutive Dr.
Dr. Wali Hamidy, D.M.D.
4150 Regents Park Row, #200, La Jolla, CA 92037
(858) 202-0481
lajolladentalimage.com
• Same Day Emergency               
Appointment Available
• We accept all PPOs and                   
UCSD Insurance Plans
• Financing Available OAC.New Patient Special
Regular Cleaning,* 
Exam & Digital X-Rays  
Only $60
*In absence of gum disease. Regular price $310. Expires June 30, 2017.
 Friendly and Knowledgeable Dentist and Staff
Avoid Cavities and Keep Your Teeth
Increase Your Confidence and Smile More
We will Listen to Your Concerns & Explain OptionsHealthy T eeth and Gums Are Important For Your Overall Health!
We 
welcome 
UCSD Staff 
& Students
Vincent Pham
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Tina Butoiu
MANAGING EDITOR
Quinn Pieper
OPINION EDITOR
Nate Walker
ASSISTANT OPINION EDITOR
Jacky To
NEWS EDITOR
Josh Lefler
ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITOR
 Lauren Holt
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR
Olga Golubkova
CO-LIFESTYLE EDITOR
Oliver Kelton
FEATURES EDITOREDITORIAL  BOARD
The UCSD Guardian is published twice a week at the 
University of California at San Diego. Contents © 
2015. Views expressed herein represent the majority 
vote of the editorial board and are not necessarily those 
of the UC Board of Regents, the ASUCSD or the 
members of the Guardian staff. UC Regents Demonstrate Care for Student 
Athletes in Vote to Guarantee Athletic 
Scholarships Past Career Threatning 
Injuries at Five More Campuses 
ILLUSTRA TION   B Y ALEX  LEE6     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 19, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
A lot can happen in 13 years. Babies are born with incredible superpowers. Little kids outgrow their toys and go off to college. People die and 
leave their loved ones behind to adventure up in the wild, blue yonder. And if this is any indication, Pixar has been exceptionally prodigious 
since the release of its epochal endeavor “Finding Nemo” back in 2003. 
During that same period “Finding Nemo” writer-director Andrew Stanton and producer Lindsey Collins released the beloved sci-fi romance 
“Wall-E” (2008) as well as the less heralded live-action romp “John Carter” (2012). However, a “Nemo” sequel has finally become a reality 
with the much-anticipated follow-up being slated for a June 17 release date. The amiable pair behind the new film took some time out of their 
schedules to answer queries about “Finding Dory” and the long-awaited return to the animated ocean blue. 
Interview by  Tynan Y anaga //  Senior Staff Writer
Q:  What was it like returning to the world of Dory and Nemo, especially 
knowing how big an impact the first film made on so many people?
Collins:   I think we definitely feel the burden of responsibility to make 
sure that this movie is worthy of “Nemo, ” and certainly we go in with those 
goals on any film, but this one in particular. There’s a lot of thought as to 
whether or not the story feels like it needs to be told. And I feel like that was 
something that we kind of looked at each other and decided before we even 
mentioned that Andrew had an idea.
Stanton:   In other words, we knew how hard it was to make the first 
one, with four years of work you have to make sure it’s something that you 
love telling so much that, even when it’s not working on year three, you’re still 
gonna get out of bed and work on it. So we had to make sure that this idea was 
the same.
Q:  What were the biggest challenges or opportunities that you saw in 
approaching this film? 
Stanton:  As far as challenges, I think I underestimated how 
difficult Dory is to write for. She was built to be a supporting character, 
to make the other people look good, and putting her in the spotlight and 
making her the main character with short-term memory loss proved to be 
very difficult to write for. And I started to hate the person that came up 
with her, which was me.
Q:  Ellen is still so passionately excited about her role as Dory. What is it 
like working with Ellen, and how did Ellen become Dory?
Collins:  To begin with, Ellen and Dory, you don’t separate the two. 
Ellen’s humor and her acting is so much in her delivery, in how she says the 
most mundane line. It’s just a charm and kind of a genuine wisdom and 
approachability in the way she delivers a line. I think for us it’s gold ... she 
worked with us from almost the very beginning and recorded a ton.
Stanton:  She did over 500 lines.
Collins:  Ye a h ,  an d  s h e  d i d  5 0 0  l i n e s  pro b a b l y  5 0 0  t i m e s .
Q: I had heard that you casted some of the voices by watching her 
interviews on “The Ellen Show. ” Is that really true? And what was that 
process like?
Collins:   Yeah, the lovely thing when one of your main characters 
is Ellen DeGeneres, is [the actors] she has talked to, and they’re in video 
and audio of her talking to almost everybody. So, when we would come 
up with somebody that we thought might be great, we would instantly go 
on YouTube and just say, “she must have been with this person. ” We would 
kind of listen and audition voices against hers that way. So in some way, it 
made our editors’ jobs a lot easier when we were casting the movie.Q:  What is your personal connection to Dory? Are there any specific 
characters or features of her that make her dear and significant to you?
Stanton:   Well, basically Marlin is me. I spent my whole life 
being worried and fearful, obsessing about the past and nervous about 
the future, which makes it very hard to be in the present. And so Dory is 
sort of like who I always wanted to be. I always wanted to just be caught 
up in the moment and just enjoy everything for what it is and always 
see the best in everything, see everything half full. So I think I want to 
believe that this is why so many people universally have fallen for her, 
because I think “who doesn’t want to be like that. ” And I’m very jealous 
of people that are like that.
Collins:  I would add, I think Dory is, because of her condition, 
permanently in the moment in a way, and I think that’s part of why I 
think people really love her, because she just takes everything as it comes.
Stanton:  She’s very accepting.
Collins:  Y eah, and I think in some ways this movie is about her giving 
herself that kind of acceptance, the kind she gives everybody else.
Stanton:  I admire how much she doesn’t judge others.
Collins:  Y eah. I wish there were more people in my life like that. We’re 
all looking for more of those people. 
Q:  So are we going to see hints to future Pixar projects in “Finding Dory”?
Collins:   Y ou will. Y ou will, we always try to do something from 
the film that’s gonna come out after, so you will definitely see them in the 
film. You’re going to have to look hard, but you’ll see it. Another thing 
I’m gonna tell you guys that we haven’t said before, so this is a breaking 
news, is make sure you stay through the credits.
Stanton:  To the end of the credits.
Collins:   Nobody else has heard this bit, so we’re telling it to you 
here first.
Stanton:  And, A113 is in there, the pizza planet truck is hidden 
in there. Anytime you see a number anywhere, it means something, and 
you know, we have a lot of fun.
Questions asked by USC, Georgetown, University of Hawaii, Berkeley 
and Loyola University in Chicago respectively. All questions compiled and 
transcribed by the UCSD Guardian.Q&A
PHOTOS COURTESY OF WALT DISNEY STUDIOS THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 19, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
My  
spare 
room  
funded my 
Master’s  
degree.Earn money by  
sharing your home.
airbnb.com/host
8     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 19, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
A drinking game: If you were 
turned into an animal, 
any animal, which would 
you choose? For Greek director 
Y orgos Lanthimos’ newest bizarre 
film, “The Lobster, ” this scenario 
is not merely an amusing game 
his characters play. In his absurd, 
minimalistic world, single people 
are banished from “The City” and 
sent to “The Hotel, ” where they are 
given 45 days to find a mate before 
they are transmogrified into an 
animal of their choosing.
Like in his previous (and 
equally absurd) films, “Dogtooth” 
and “ Alps, ” Lanthimos is intent 
on deconstructing the social rules 
that govern our lives by placing his 
characters under a whole new set 
of bizarre conventions and seeing 
how they function. It’s similar to 
the way filmmaker Luis Buñuel and novelist J.G. Ballard craft their 
high-concept stories. Except in this 
case, the focus is on the arbitrary 
rules of romance.
For the film’s protagonist, 
David, played by a pot-bellied 
and wonderfully innocent Colin 
Farrell, his choice of animal is 
obvious: a lobster. His reasoning? 
“Because lobsters live for over 
100 years, are blue-blooded like 
aristocrats and stay fertile all their 
lives. I also like the sea very much. ”
This deadpan acceptance of 
the bizarre dominates the film and 
makes for some truly unique dark 
humor. Characters in “The Hotel” 
sit in on lectures that bleakly detail 
the benefits of having a romantic 
partner, including the hotel staff 
indifferently miming what would 
happen if you were to choke on a 
chicken bone without somebody around to help. Scenes like this, 
that make romance seem like 
the most boring of game theory 
exercises — and the hotel a work 
convention at which Kafka would 
salivate — are the heart of the 
film. They turn “The Lobster” into 
a non-stop skewering of human 
relationships.
Perhaps the most genuinely 
humorous part of this is how 
the characters in the hotel try to 
find potential mates by searching 
for “defining characteristics” — 
superficial similarities in others 
that might lead to romance. One 
of the residents, a limping man 
(Ben Whishaw) is dejected when 
he realizes that a woman with a 
limp is merely sporting a sprained 
ankle rather than a serious and 
permanent condition. Eventually, 
he resigns himself to bashing in his own nose, in order to win 
over the affections of a young 
woman (Jessica Barden) who is 
prone to constant nosebleeds. For 
a generation that spends hours 
searching for and projecting 
superficial similarities on Tinder 
and other social media sites, this 
should ring painfully true.
It’s all very clever, beautifully 
shot in Ireland, and with 
wonderfully absurd performances. 
But at two hours long, it does 
become a little excessive in its 
cruel cleverness, and like many 
high-concept narratives, fails to 
justify itself. It begs the question 
of whether Lanthimos really has 
anything to say or is simply laying 
into social conventions mercilessly 
without caring whether the film is 
meant to be an allegory or not.
“The Lobster” does switch 
things up a bit in the second half, 
as David escapes the captivity of 
the hotel to joint the “Loners, ” 
a militant group of singles who refuse to find partners, and 
indeed cruelly punish each other 
if they ever show any inclination 
toward romance. It’s the age-old 
counterpoint of liberation being 
just as stifling and cruel as the 
status quo. Of course, it’s also 
just at this moment that David 
encounters a real romance, with 
another loner (Rachel Weisz). 
However, Lanthimos is 
clearly not interested in moving 
toward some type of catharsis 
here. Rather, it sticks to the 
course, treading over the same 
worn-out ground. When the 
inconclusive and anticlimactic 
ending comes, and we are ejected 
from Lanthimos’ cruel world-in-
a-bottle, we wonder if the whole 
thing wasn’t just a pro-crustacean 
propaganda piece.
— Dieter  jouber t
Senior Staff Writer
PHOTO COURTESY OF ACESHOWBIZ
FILM   REVIEW
The   LobsterB
Money  
monster
Jodie Foster’s social commentary in her new thriller “Money 
Monster” turns out to be more entertaining than critical.
It is Jodie Foster’s fourth 
time directing a movie, 
and the queen of thrillers 
has provided the audience 
with a new breathtaking 
work on Wall Street. Lee 
Gates (George Clooney), 
a famous and ostentatious 
financial television host, is 
taken hostage by desperate, 
broke investor Kyle Budwell 
(Jack O’Connell) live on TV . 
Budwell threatens to kill Gates 
and demands an explanation 
for the investment firm Ibis’s 
$800-million loss in minutes. 
Budwell has invested all his 
money in Ibis and as a result 
lost everything; Ibis justifies 
itself and claims that the 
losses came from a computer 
glitch. Under the guidance 
of producer Patty Fenn (Julia 
Roberts), Gates tries to save 
his own life while striving to 
uncover the truth behind Ibis’s 
lie. This hostage incident leads 
to the step-by-step discovery 
of a financial scandal.
The film’s high-level 
suspense stands out, as the 
continuous tension keeps you 
awake and nervous as the 
story progresses. Since Gates’ show is broadcasting live, 
people worldwide are paying 
attention to the incident while 
it plays out. As such, it places 
the audience watching “Money 
Monster” in a position similar 
to that of the TV viewers inside 
the movie. This allows both 
audiences to fully immerse 
themselves in the story and 
strengthens the effect of the 
thriller itself — the story no 
longer feels like a fiction, but 
a real event that is actually 
happening in New Y ork. 
Moreover, the light-heartedness 
“Money Monster” creates 
through humorous dialogue 
and Clooney’s unusually 
facetious performance balances 
the anxiety the real-time 
thriller triggers.
Foster attempts to present 
a satire that portrays the 
dark side of human nature 
and reveals the money-
oriented culture in this 
world, criticizing immoral 
approaches to making profits 
by depicting violent tensions 
between classes. Y et, the film 
does not succeed in creating 
a mind-blowing work that 
delves deep into the nature of financial scandals. Instead, 
it provides a cliche storyline 
in which the working class 
is abused by the upper class. 
One refreshing element, 
however, might be Lee Gates’ 
process of changing and 
learning from the unexpected 
hostage incident. Though he 
understands that his life is 
at stake, he becomes more 
humane and cooperative 
towards Budwell as the 
secret of Ibis is revealed. 
One cannot say whether this 
sudden change is realistic, but 
it does demonstrate how the 
film conveys the idea that the 
working class’s voice needs to 
be respected and heard.
To some extent, suspense 
and humor make up for the 
superficial story that lacks 
anything profound. Still, 
“Money Monster” is more of 
a clever work that entertains 
than a groundbreaking movie 
made to reveal something deep 
about the financial world.
—   Yidian   huang
Senior Staff WriterPHOTO COURTESY OF LA WEEKLY
Directed by   Jodie Foster
Starring   George Clooney, Julia Roberts, Jack O’Connell
Rated  R
Release Date  May 13 B-Directed by   Yorgos Lanthimos
Starring   Colin Farrell, Rachel Weisz, Lea Seydoux
Release Date   May 20
Rated   R
A darkly humorous “rom-com” that requires force to crack 
open, yet might ultimately require more effort than it’s worth.
Coloring   book
by   Chance   the   rapper
Release Date May 12
However distant “Coloring Book” is from Chance’s previous 
work, it’s a pleasing third-coming for the rising Chicago star.ALBUM  REVIEW
If “ Acid Rap” gave us the 
youthful, “hakuna matata” 
version of Chance the 
Rapper, his newest mixtape 
“Coloring Book” shows him 
exploring the transition 
into adulthood, a necessary 
consequence of having a 
newborn daughter at the age 
of 22. At times, he reaches 
too far, trying his best to be 
an inspiration and a positive 
figure a la Kendrick Lamar. 
Fortunately, Chance’s essential 
and unbreakable traits are his 
authenticity and relatability, 
which prevent him from 
coming off as preachy or 
disingenuous. Instead, we see 
him trying to fit into a new 
identity as an adult while 
looking back at the departure 
of his youth.
From the mixtape’s first 
track, “ All We Got, ” we get 
a clear sense that “ Acid 
Rap” Chance is no more. 
Instead of the blasts of his 
signature biting horns, we 
hear the abrasive bounce 
of deep, synthesized brass, 
a proclamation of change 
that is then solidified by the 
invasive interference of Kanye 
West cybertronic vocals — 
auto-tune that’s heavy even 
by his standards. The track’s 
jarring sounds induce a state 
of perplexion, making us wonder if our speakers ar e 
faulty or if we downloaded 
a phony rip. However, the 
song’s virtue is that it serves 
as a defamiliarizing sample, 
one that prepares us for the 
varying styles of music we’re 
about to encounter.
In direct contrast to the 
singular tone of “ Acid Rap” — 
that of spirited and worriless 
youth, which led Pitchfork 
writer Jeff Weiss to describe 
Chance as a Ferris Bueller 
type — “Coloring Book” never 
settles on an identity and, aside 
from pure positivity, lacks a 
solid theme. With a gospel 
track (“Blessings”), a deeply 
sentimental ballad (“Same 
Drugs”) and a provocative club 
hit (“Mixtape”) all presented 
sequentially, it seems that 
Chance’s only goal is to pad 
his musical resume and 
prove that he’s more than his 
trademark onomatopoeias. 
What “Coloring Book” lacks 
in coherence, however, it makes up in cameos from 
hip-hop heavy-hitters. Two, 
in particular, stand out: 
Lil Wayne in the exciting 
“No Problem” and Future 
in hair-raising, Ginuwine-
esque “Smoke Break, ” both 
of whom blend their vocal 
idiosyncrasies seamlessly into 
their respective track. 
With such a wide variety 
of genres and features, the 
mixtape seems to be Chance’s 
step outside of the musical 
wheelhouse that he so precisely 
and superbly established in 
“ Acid Rap. ” Though it’s much 
more uneven in its execution 
than his past work, the 
ambition of the mixtape shows 
that Chance the Rapper has yet 
to completely define himself 
as an artist. The album’s 
imperfections reveal that he’s 
a coloring book that’s yet to be 
fully colored.
—   Jacky  to
Senior Staff Writerb
FILM   REVIEW
PHOTO COURTESY OF HNHH THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 19, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
Kinky in the Kitchen — An Introduction to Toast BY TINA BUTOIU // STAFF WRITER
Serving size: 1
Total time:
40 minutes 
Time with Pre-baked Baked 
Potato:
5 minutes
Ingredients:
The Basic Toast 
(with almond butter)
One baked sweet potato,    
cooled, peeled and diced  
(bake at 350 degrees for 30 
minutes or until potato is 
soft in the center)The Basic Toast Bread and butter. It doesn’t get 
any simpler than that. Pair this 
with coffee, tea or whatever your 
fix is, and you’re set to start the day, 
get through that 3:30 p.m. class or 
survive a late night study session.
First, take one lightly toasted 
slice of bread. Recommended? 
Ezekiel Bread — it’s organic, packed 
with protein, whole grains and no 
sugar, making it a healthy, versatile 
option that goes with pretty much 
any topping. Then, smudge some 
almond butter or peanut butter (a 
teaspoon to a tablespoon should be 
plenty) on top of it. The difference? 
Almond butter has a slightly 
grainier texture than peanut butter, 
but tastes lighter, is less assertive, 
less processed and lower in fat 
and sugar, making it the healthier 
option of the two. However, it’s 
double the price of peanut butter, 
so if you do go for peanut butter, 
check the label and go for the 
low-sugar option with the fewest 
ingredients. As a rule of thumb, 
fewer ingredients generally means a 
healthier product.Now let’s get kinky.
With basics like these, it’s really 
hard to go wrong, so why not have 
a little fun? Y ou can pretty much 
put anything on top and it’ll taste 
decent. Even sweet potato? This 
past weekend I decided to try out 
a baked, peeled and diced sweet 
potato (enough for two pieces of 
toast) on top of almond butter 
toast and was pleasantly surprised 
by the added layer of creaminess 
and sweetness. While creamy-on-
creamy may feel a little awkward, 
it’s comforting and reminiscent 
of Thanksgiving dinner without 
the food coma. The sugar is less 
assertive and more so aromatic, 
just enough to tame your cravings 
without forcing you to eat dessert 
for breakfast (if you’re not into 
that). Why sweet potato and toast? 
Because my mom had baked some 
sweet potato over the weekend and 
they were in the fridge ready to 
indulge. Round two? Y es, please. 
Perhaps next time, with a dash of 
cinnamon or using boiled, mashed 
sweet potato. Who knows? Maybe.So let’ s say you’re in a rush 
and don’t have time to cook or 
peel something, but the basics are 
too bland for your taste buds that 
morning. Or you’re just craving 
coffee but don’t feel like making 
it — yes, even instant coffee takes 
a minute to make, especially if 
you have to heat up the water. 
Sprinkle a teaspoon of instant coffee 
and problem solved. The coffee 
complemented the almond butter by 
adding a unique layer of graininess 
that disappears the moment you 
take a bite. Hit or miss? Coffee and 
almonds are a natural, low-risk pair, 
so a definite hit. Also, the combo 
is perfect for dessert, so try mixing 
the coffee into the almond butter 
beforehand, add a banana and/or 
ice cream on top and voila.
 And that was your introduction 
to Kinky in the Kitchen. However, 
we have only touched on the basics 
of a kinky breakfast toast. Have fun 
with the guidelines; add, take out, 
mess around with the process and 
share your experiences with us at 
lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org.The fantasy genre sells fantasies. Not 
of dragons or elves, but of justice and 
happily ever afters. Odds are beaten, true 
love blooms and potential is realized. At 
this point in fantasy writing, friendship, 
courage and latent magical power have 
such a consistent track record that it’s 
probably not even worth trying to take 
over the world. 
Joe Abercrombie’s “The First Law” 
trilogy is a tad more cynical. Beginning 
with “The Blade Itself, ” the story tracks 
a number of protagonists. After losing 
everything to the orc-like “shanka, ” the 
wayward barbarian Logen Ninefingers is 
told by the spirits to seek the magician 
Bayaz. Meanwhile, the handsome Jezal 
dan Luthar hones his swordfighting 
talent for his debut in The Tournament. 
A sinister force threatens the heart of the 
Union and it’s up to the war hero Sand 
dan Glokta to unmask the conspiracy. 
Two years of torture have left him a 
hideous cripple, but that won’t stop him 
from kidnapping and mutilating his way 
to the truth — or close enough. Wait, 
what?
As it turns out, Logen has a bloody 
past. Bayaz heedlessly pursues his own 
ends. Jezal is self-centered and lazy. And, 
of course, Glokta extracts confessions 
for a living. There are no heroes in “The 
First Law” trilogy. 
Nor does Abercrombie shy away 
from the less-glamorous side of life. 
With uncompromising candor, fingers 
are permanently shortened, teeth are 
knocked out, lust is spent and friends are 
killed. Like the real world, misfortune is not limited to the deserving. 
It’s not all grim. Logen does his best 
to be realistic as he and his strange 
companions press through their arduous 
quest. Jezal adapts to life outside of the 
city. Glokta cheerily calls for a crisp 
apple with his breakfast every morning 
— though his diet will forever be limited 
to gruel. What sets “The First Law” 
above other fantasy series is the capacity 
of the characters to be deeply shaped 
by events — especially those involving 
sharp implements.
The series is not without 
shortcomings. Over the course of three 
novels, Abercrombie hammers in the 
trite and true: Disparity is unfair, war 
is pyrrhic and bureaucracy is wasteful. 
His condemnation of conflict feels out 
of place in a book with so many lovingly 
choreographed fight scenes. And 
while the primary cast is fully fleshed 
(except in the case of poor Glokta), the 
supporting characters are not written 
with such high fidelity. In fact, many 
seem to embody the same stereotypes 
that are so cleverly subverted by the 
protagonists. Unsurprisingly, high 
fantasy is not the optimal medium for 
profound insights. 
None of this detracts from the thrill. 
With irreverence and wit, Abercrombie 
weaves an excellent adventure in an 
unsympathetic fantasy world. The 
conclusion of the third book is an 
immensely satisfying end to an enjoyable 
journey. “The First Law” trilogy will not 
lull anyone with warm feelings, but it 
will entertain and inspire thanks. “The First Law” 
 by Joe Abercrombie
Review by  Adam Fisher //Lifestyle Senior Staff WriterReview by  Olga Golubkova //Lifestyle Co-Editor
BOOK   REVIEW
HOURS:
Monday to Friday: 
6:30 a.m. to 6 p.m.LOCATION:
2335 University Ave
San Diego, CA$COFFEE   SHOP   REVIEW
“People are down to Uber from UCSD all 
the way to North Park just to go to a coffee 
shop?” my driver asked in amusement after I 
told him I was headed to a new coffee shop. 
I could only shrug my shoulders and nod in 
response. Demand for a place where one can 
have a lighthearted conversation or an enjoyable 
study session paired with a cup of caffeination 
is truly high. Brand new establishments all over 
San Diego are successfully meeting this demand, 
providing local customers with a wide variety 
of coffee. One such place is Communal Coffee, 
which opened two weeks ago at the corner of 
Texas Street and University Avenue.
 Established and managed by local 
entrepreneurs Jen and John Byard, Communal 
Coffee effortlessly fits in with the neighborhood. 
The coffee shop is situated on the premises of 
North Park Nursery and shares the space with a 
Native Poppy floral design company, which sets 
the mood of this bright green space. Decorated 
with various floral forms placed in floor pots, 
hung on intricately interwoven ropes and drawn 
on the walls, this place harmonizes with its Texas 
and University neighbors. Its large windows 
and open glass doors create a feeling of being 
in the patio, even when indoors. In addition, 
Communal Coffee has two outdoor sitting 
areas — one adjacent to the nursery and one 
overlooking the street. Open and equipped with 
numerous outlets and Wi-Fi, the coffee shop is 
perfect for studying on a warm day. So take note 
of it if you’re looking for a way to make summer-
session cramming more enjoyable.
 Communal Coffee’s drinks menu, however, is 
not as refreshing as its interior. While it features 
a large number of coffee options — classic 
espresso-and-milk combinations, cold brew 
and pour over — there is nothing in particular 
that catches the eye. One lavender latte and one 
caramel mocha specialty drink? As spoiled San 
Diegans, we are not amused, but of course, the absence of extreme seven-syrup-pump specialty 
drink madness that undermines all coffee flavor 
can also be a plus. Additionally, Communal 
Coffee impresses the knowledgeable coffee 
drinker by serving famous coffee from San 
Francisco Sightglass Roastery.
 When it comes to food, the coffee shop placed 
its bet on a popular snack — deliciously simple 
toasts. Communal Coffee offers this carbohydrate 
treat in two variations — sweet with seasonal 
jam ($4) or jam and goat cheese ($6) and savory 
with avocado ($6) and egg (+$1.50) or prosciutto 
(+$2). Untoasted soft artisan bread with a crunchy 
crust combined with fresh creamy toppings 
really melts in your mouth, making you wish 
Communal Coffee was open for dinner too. With 
pastries and cookies, this place serves breakfast 
dishes like yogurt with granola and berries ($7) 
and veggie and bacon quiches ($7–8). On the 
owners’ agenda are also some game-changing 
menu extensions — weekend waffle bar, lunch 
dishes, wine and beer.
At Communal Coffee, where the floral 
atmosphere is even more outstanding than its 
menu, going in, we found out, is really going out. 
John Muir would be happy.    Communal Coffee
PHOTOS BY OLGA GOLUBKOVA /UCSD GUARDIAN
PHOTO COURTESY  OF  BOOMTROM10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 19, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDS$
Gua rdian Classifieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedsBIKES
Prodeco Electric Bike - $1100. Prodeco 
Electric Bike Stride 500. Disk Brakes, 
Aluminum Frame, eight Speeds, 40mis 
per charge. 25 mph top speed. Fantastic 
Condition. Rarely Ridden. Listing ID: 
264681109 at ucsdguardian.org/classi -
fieds for more information
Mens Fuji Gran Fondo 2.5 Road Bicycle 
- $700. New Condition, ridden on short 
rides less than five times. Paid $1500.00 
New from Performance Bicycle. 8 
months old. Full Carbon Fiber Frame: 
53in. Comes with USB Charged LED Head 
and Tail Lights, Cargo Pack. Listing ID: 
264681108 at ucsdguardian.org/classi -
fieds for more information
Diamondback Sorrento Bike - $85. Works 
great! Has been indoors most of its life 
so there is no rust. Great commuter bike 
for anyone. Gears are a little slow shifting 
but still shift fine. Just needs new front 
tire tube (~$6). Give me your best offer. 
Listing ID: 264681106 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
ELECTRONICS
32 inch LCD TV - $100. 1080i HD with 
HDMI hookups. Remote is included. 
Hundred dollars or best offer. Listing 
ID: 264681170 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
GLI Pro Speakers - $60. Do not have 
cables. Compare price at $90-$100 each 
. Really need the money so $60 for both 
is perfect. Listing ID: 264681168 at ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
KODAK 35mm Slide Projector, Lens 
and Charger - $20. KODAK Model 500 
Slide Projector Includes: KODAK Slide 
Projector and lens Electric Cord KODAK 
READYMATIC CHANGER for showing 
separate handfuls of 35mm slides. VERY 
GOOD WORKING CONDITION! Listing ID: 
264681165 at ucsdguardian.org/classi -
fieds for more informationFURNITURE
Rustic, Cute, Beachy Old Door Headboard 
- $300. 1920s door converted into a 
headboard with crown molding and a 
shelf. Sanded down in parts to the origi -
nal wood. We liked it rustic looking. Can 
be painted any color or kept as is. Listing 
ID: 264681178 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
Modular Couches - $500. Looking to sell 
this couch. Each piece is modular for 
limitless combinations! Couch is in good 
condition but is a little large for cur -
rent living room. Custom made at Metro 
Decor with the nicest fabrics and interior 
stuffing. Originally approximately $3000. 
Listing ID: 264681176 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
Wooden Vanity Mirror - $30. W/base the 
mirror is 44ins x 36 ins. Fantastic condi -
tion. Listing ID: 263874261 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
t
your vision,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel to 
promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies 
on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.ukLevel: 1234 Level: 1234
SUDOKU
Dr. Terranova, Dr. Sherman, and Dr. Horne
TORREY PINES
DENTAL ARTS
We welcome UCSD Staff & Students
Richard L Sherman DDS
Steven B. Horne DDS
Scripps/Ximed Medical Center
9850 Genessee Avenue #720
La Jolla, CA 92037
858-453-5525
Info@TorreyPinesDentalArts.com
www.TorreyPinesDentalArts.com• All dental services provided in one 
convenient location
• We accept all UCSD Insurance Plans
• New Patients & Emergencies Welcome
• Easily accessible from Campus -
right across from the UCSD baseball 
field; on the UCSD Bus Line.
DO YOU TWEET? WE DO!
@UCSDGua rdianwhat do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 19, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
it’sICA STUDENT ACTIVITY FEE
REFERENDUM SPECIAL ELECTIONCourtney Miller had 12 saves. 
UCSD advanced on to play ASU for 
fifth place at noon on Sunday. 
The Tritons tied the 1994 UCSD 
women’s water polo team record of 
28 wins on the season after defeating 
the Gauchos. 
Sunday Afternoon
The Tritons faced off against No. 6 
ASU as they competed for fifth place 
at the NCAA tournament and ended 
with 35 shots on goal. However, they 
could only manage to get two past 
ASU’s goalkeeper during the match. 
UCSD was shutout the first quarter 
and allowed one Sun Devil goal, 
giving ASU the advantage. During 
the second quarter Sasson found the 
back of the net before ASU quickly 
scored, regaining the lead once 
again 36 seconds later on the next possession. The Sun Devils led 2–1 
heading into the second half of the 
game, taking control of the game 
as they shut UCSD out and scored 
three goals in the third quarter. The 
score was 5–1 heading into the final 
quarter of match, when Wieseler 
managed to score. However, this 
wasn’t enough for the Tritons to 
earn fifth place at the tournament, 
as the Sun Devils went on to score 
three more goals. The final score of 
the match was 8–2 with the Tritons 
finishing sixth at the tournament. 
The 2016 Tritons’ sixth-place 
finish matched their best showing at 
the NCAA championship in school 
history with. Wieseler was named 
to the NCAA Championship All-
Tournament Second team.
Wieseler Earns All-T ournament Honors
▶ W. WATER POLO,  from page 12
Samantha glantz    
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE/ UCSD  GUARDIANCONTACT THE EDITORS
DEV  JAIN  &  MARCUS  THUILLIER
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 19, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
UCSD  
Dominates APU
Tritons crush the No.13th ranked Cougars 5–1 and 
will face Northwest Missouri State University next in 
the NCAA Round of 16.
Written by  Alex Wu // Senior Staff Writer
Photo by  Megan Lee // Photo Editor  Men's Tennis
Looking to reach the NCAA tournament, the No. 16-ranked UCSD 
men’s tennis team was given the undesirable task of facing off against 
No. 13 Azusa Pacific University on the road in an NCAA West 
Regional match. Having already split their season series, with UCSD winning 
at APU but losing at home against the second team in the West Region, 
the Tritons hoped to settle the score once and for all. When the dust finally 
cleared, the Tritons stood victorious, improving to 14–9 on the season, while 
the Cougars fell to 20–5.
Starting the day with the doubles matchups, the Tritons turned into a well-
oiled machine, handily dealing with everything APU threw at them. Led by 
senior Horea Porutiu and junior Alexandre Miaule’s stomping match victory 
of 8–4, the team kicked the game off in stride, putting the Cougars in a sizeable 
deficit from the get-go.
Following up with the singles matchups, the overall trend of the day remained consistent. Sophomore Eric Tseng was first up, facing off against 
the second-ranked Cougar Jan Meyer from APU. Tseng put up a fight, but 
ultimately fell in both sets, giving the Cougars their first and only victory of 
the day. 
Thankfully, APU didn’t have any more ranked players to play, which led 
to Miaule and Porutiu wiping the floor with their respective opponents, each 
winning in just two sets. While the rest of the matches remained unfinished, 
the Tritons’ early lead was enough to push them to glory. At the end of the day, 
UCSD wound up crushing APU 5–1.
“It was a great environment for us, ” Head Coach Timmer Willing said in 
his postgame press conference. “We came in with a lot of energy and started 
off strong with the doubles and put them in a tough situation. ”
With the win, the Tritons head to Denver to duel Northwest Missouri State 
University in the Round of 16 on Wednesday, May 18.
Alex WU    
No. 10 and seventh-seeded 
UCSD placed sixth at the NCAA 
championship held at the Spieker 
Aquatics Center at UCLA this past 
weekend. UCSD lost to second-seed 
UCLA to begin the tournament, 
quickly placing into the bottom four 
teams at the tournament. However, 
the Tritons won their second match 
against UC Santa Barbara, allowing 
them to battle against Arizona State 
University and to potentially claim 
the fifth- or sixth-place finish during 
the next round. The Tritons lost 
their final match of the year to ASU, 
earning them sixth place overall at 
the tournament.
Friday Night
The Tritons faced off against 
the third-best team in the nation, 
the UCLA Bruins, during their 
quarterfinal match of the NCAA 
tournament. UCSD hung in there 
during the first quarter after only 
allowing the Bruins to score twice as 
redshirt junior two-meter defender Alexis Wieseler sneaked one in 
the back of the net for the Tritons. 
Heading into the second quarter 
with a score of 2–1 in the Bruins’ 
favor, UCLA ’s offense exploded, 
scoring a quick five goals. Senior 
attacker Laurel Kistler and Wieseler 
scored in the second quarter, 
bringing UCLA ’s lead to 7–3, 
heading into halftime.
The second half of the game 
was all UCLA as it scored 10 goals 
and held UCSD to only one goal by 
junior attacker Connie Wu.
The final score was 17–4 in 
UCLA ’s favor.
Saturday Afternoon
The No. 10 UCSD Tritons 
played the No. 7 UCSB Gauchos 
in the second game of the NCAA 
tournament. UCSB capitalized first, 
scoring the first goal of the match, 
but UCSD answered back by scoring 
three consecutive goals as junior 
two-meter defender Lani Tittle, 
Wieseler and senior attacker Emma 
Sasson found the back of the net. The 
score was 3–1 in the Tritons’ favor 
heading into the second quarter.The Tritons sneaked two more 
past the Gauchos in the second 
quarter with goals from junior 
center Lauren Boyer and Kistler, and 
UCSB only managed to score once 
before halftime. 
UCSB scored within the first 24 
seconds of the third quarter, cutting 
the margin to two, before UCSD 
scored three consecutive goals. The goals came from Sasson, senior 
attacker Julia Kirkland and Wieseler. 
Although the Gauchos matched 
the Tritons with two goals apiece in 
the fourth quarter, it wasn’t enough 
for them to earn the victory. The 
Tritons took down the Gauchos with 
a final score of 10–5 as Wieseler had 
a hat trick scoring three goals for 
the Tritons and senior goalkeeper WOMEN'S  W A TER   POLO
No. 10 Tritons Finish Sixth in NCAA Tournament
UCSD loses to UCLA and ASU but beats UCSB in tournament to match best water polo finish in school history. 
BY   Sa m a n t h a  G l a n t z
week  in
summar y
W A TER   POLO
MEN'S  TENNISUCSD
UCSD
UCSD
APUUCLA
Dixie State
UCSB4
2
1017
1
5
5
1
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE/ UCSD  GUARDIAN
UCSD 
  
Track & Field
M.TennisUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMES5/26
5/18AT NCAA Championships 
AT NCAA Championships