VOLUME 49, ISSUE 43                 MONDA Y , APRIL 4, 2016       WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
A.S. ELECTION 
ENDORSEMENTS
UNFAMILIAR WITH THE A.S. 
ELECTION CANDIDATES? DON’T 
WORRY, WE INTERVIEWED 
THEM FOR YOU! READ OUR 
ENDORSEMENTS AND SEE 
IF THEY LINE UP WITH YOUR 
VIEWS AND INTERESTS.
BROWN'S  W AGE  PROPOSAL
MLB SEASON PREVIEWPLANS TO  INCREASE  MINIMUM
which  team  rules  california?OPINION, P AGE 4
SPORTS,  P age  11
MONDAY
H 71 L 54TUESDAY
H 72 L 57
WEDNESDAY
H 72 L 57THURSDAY
H 68 L 56
FORECAST
VERBATIM
TOUR GROUPS ARE TAKEN 
INTO THE BOWELS OF THE 
COMPUTER SCIENCE BUILDING 
AND QUICKLY OUTFITTED WITH 
A HEADSET DEPICTING A TRULY 
PERFECT CAMPUS. AFTER THIS 
“RE-EDUCATION” WITH THE VR 
HEADSETS, 100 PERCENT OF 
ALL TOURISTS APPLY TO OUR 
FANTASTIC CAMPUS!”
- Be A Good Role Model 
HOW-TO GURU
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
OLD ITALIAN VILLAGE  ......2
MICROSOFT BOT ............. 3
A.S. ENDORSEMENTS  .....6
CLASSIFIEDS  ................ 10
TRACK AND FIELD  ......... 12fea tures,  P AGE  6
ILLUSTRATION BY CHRISTINA CARLSON / GUARDIAN
UCSD’s Triton 3D, also known 
as T3D, hosted its weekend-long 
computer-aided design and 3-D 
printing challenge in the Price Center 
Forum at 6 p.m. on Friday. The 
Make-A-Thon was divided into two 
categories: beginner and advanced. 
Out of the advanced-category teams, 
Teams EWB and Seizemic won the 
first-place titles. Team Trihard placed 
first in the beginner category.  
The prize for the winning team 
in the advanced category is an M3D 
printer and the prize for the top 
team in the beginner category is a 
3Doodler pen.
During the opening remarks, 
T3D Secretary and Sixth College sophomore Alec Kochis announced 
that the theme for this year’s Make-
A-Thon is castles. Teams in the 
beginner category were assigned the 
task of constructing a castle with 
a functional design while advanced 
teams had to construct a device to 
attack a castle. The opening remarks 
were followed by a CAD tutorial and 
3-D printing workshop.
Kochis told the UCSD Guardian 
that the Make-A-Thon is T3D’s annual 
student outreach event, which aims 
to introduce 3-D printing to non-
engineering majors and familiarize 
them with the benefits of 3-D 
modeling software.
“We want to get people to take the 
plunge in a fun way, and in a way that 
they know they’re going to learn from 
us, ” Kochis said.Kochis added that 3-D printing has 
practical applications for students with 
a variety of majors.
“For example, maybe there’s a 
business major who’s pitching a 
product, ” Kochis noted. “He can 
3-D print the product and bring it 
to his meeting. ”
For some mechanical engineering 
students, the advanced category offers 
a platform for them to experiment 
with technology and software that 
they are already familiar with. Earl 
Warren College senior Daniel Ortiz, a 
competitor in the advanced category, 
told the Guardian that the event gives 
students the opportunity to apply 
what they’ve learned in class to a 
hands-on project.UCSD Ranked 
Among Best for 
Low-Income 
StudentsEDUCATION
According to the Obama 
administration, UCSD enrolls 
Pell Grants recipients at one 
of the nation’s highest rates.
BY   M A R I O   E S P I N O Z A
CONTRIBUTING WRITEr
The U.S. Department of Education 
ranked UCSD as one of 13 public 
universities in the nation that excels 
at enrolling and graduating low-
income students, namely those 
who qualify for federal Pell Grants. 
According to the March 24 report, 
which is part of President Obama’s 
efforts to ensure that more Americans 
have the opportunity to get “a quality, 
affordable higher education, ” these 
students make up at least 40 percent 
of the student population in each of 
the universities featured. 
The rankings were based on the 
results of the 2011–2012 academic year 
in which 43 percent of those who 
enrolled in UCSD were Pell Grant 
recipients. Moreover, 84 percent of 
them graduated from the university 
within six years — compared to the 
86 percent of all UCSD students who 
graduated in that length of time — and 
71 percent of them earned salaries of at 
least $25,000 six years after enrolling. 
The annual net cost of attending the 
university for them was $9,279.
UCSD Communications Manager 
Christine Clark told the UCSD 
Guardian that she feels that some of 
the problems low-income students face 
at the university include working while 
attending classes.
“Many [low-income] students 
have the challenge of having to 
balance working while going to 
school along with a rigorous academic 
course load, ” Clark said. “If a student 
is living at home or off campus to 
save money, commuting to campus 
may present hurdles both in terms 
of time management as well as the 
ability to engage and feel a part of the 
campus community. There also may 
be limited opportunities to participate 
in high-impact practices that foster 
retention and success due to limited 
discretionary funds. ”
Clark immediately followed by 
saying that the university ensures 
that low-income students succeed 
by providing financial and academic 
services to low-income students.
“UC San Diego makes a concerted 
effort to enroll and improve outcomes 
for students with modest means, ” Clark 
said. “That might mean providing 
financial aid, emergency loans [and] 
scholarships along with ensuring 
that academic advising, mentoring 
and counseling services are free of 
additional fees. Students should always 
ask if there are additional resources 
available before making a decision not  State Audit Reports Lower 
Standards for Nonresidents
The University of California system lowered 
admissions standards for nonresident applicants 
during recent years in order to receive more funding 
from out-of-state tuition, California State Auditor Elaine 
Howle reported. The March 29 report concludes that the UC 
system devoted increasing attention to enrolling out-of-state 
and international students so that campuses could use the 
higher tuition to offset budget cuts. 
To support her claims, Howle points to an 82-percent 
increase in nonresident enrollment but a 1-percent decrease 
in resident enrollment between the 2010–2011 and 2014–
2015 academic years.
Howle stated that “[The UC system’s] decision to increase 
the enrollment of nonresidents has made it more difficult for 
California residents to gain admission to the university” 
and attributes this to a change in the way nonresident 
applicants must compare with resident students in order 
to be admitted. Prior to 2011, the UC system focused on 
admitting nonresidents whose academic qualifications were 
at least equivalent to those of the upper half of residents 
eligible for admission. However, as Howle notes, the UC 
campuses loosened this admission standard in 2011 so that 
nonresidents must only “compare favorably” to residents.According to Howle, almost 16,000 nonresident students 
whose test scores and GPA were lower than those of the 
top half of in-state acceptances at the same campuses were 
admitted over the three years following 2011. Simultaneously, 
the UC system rejected an increasing number of qualified 
residents at the campuses of their choice, Howle said. 
The change in admission standards for nonresidents 
exhibits a shift away from enrolling students who can 
improve the campus atmosphere, in-state Thurgood 
Marshall College freshman Revati Rashingkar told the 
UCSD Guardian.
“Lowering the standards for out-of-state and international 
students means that the school’s focus is more towards 
getting more tuition money from them than finding people 
that would contribute to the school’s environment in other 
ways besides money, ” Rashingkar said.
International Marshall freshman Pavaan Gaur noted 
that the reduction of standards for nonresidents is unfair 
to California students but also that the higher tuition is 
important to the schools.
“It is unfair to California students because they are 
paying the taxes, and that’s why they should have better 
access to the campuses, ” Gaur told the Guardian. “ At the B y  LAUREN  HOL T      STAFF WRITERMUIR MUSICAL
University Hosts Second Annual Make-A-Thon
The Triton 3D competition tasked students with creatively applying 3-D printing techniques.See AUDIT , page 3
CAMPUS
BY  M A R I A   S E B AS
NEWS EDITORIAL ASSISTANT
See LOW-INCOME , page 3 See MAKE-A-THON , page 3UC SYSTEM
Muir Musical’s adaption of Lin Manuel Miranda’s “In the Heights” opened this past Friday at Mandeville Auditorium and 
will continue with shows next Friday and Saturday. Photo by Chrisitan Duarte /UCSD Guardian2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 4, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
WEEKLIES By Alex Lee
CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY  LONG BEACH
COLLEGE OF  CONTINUING AND  PROFESSIONAL EDUCATION
DOERS DOCSULB 2016More than 75 Online Summer Classes 
Registration Begins April 4
(800) 963-2250 | CCPE-info@csulb.edu
www.ccpe.csulb.edu/summer Two 6-Week Sessions 
May 23–July 1 (S1S)
July 5–August 12 (S3S)
 One 12-Week Session 
May 23–August 12 (SSD)
#DoersDo
@CSULBInterSessnSummer Sessions
Earn units toward 
your degreeNo formal 
admission to CSULB 
required Enroll on a 
“space available” 
basis
DO YOU TWEET? YAY SO DO WE!
@UCSDGua rdian
CalCopyUCSD@gmai l.comLowest
Prices POSTER PRINTINGPRINT/ COPY FILES
'' FedExFastest
ServiceReaders printed in 1 day.Cal Copy UCSD Course Readers
SAME DAY COLOR POSTER PRINTING!The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. Jacky is the divorced husband of Kriti and Josh 
and Maria are his feuding children. Deal with it.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Marketing Co-Directors
Peter McInnis, Haley Asturias
Training and Development Manager
Cedric Hyon
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Vincent Pham
Tina Butoiu
Jacky To
Josh Lefler
Quinn Pieper
Marcus Thuillier
Dev Jain
Allison Kubo
Oliver Kelton
Karly Nisson
Sam Velaquez
Brittney Lu
Olga Golubkova
Megan Lee
Christian Duarte
Joselynn Ordaz
Kenji Bennett
Ayat Amin
Christina Carlson
Sophia Huang
Jennifer Grundman
Sage Schubert ChristianEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
News Editor
 
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Co-Editor
Features Editor
Associate Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Multimedia Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editors
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Allison Kubo
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim, Alicia Ho, Lisa Chik
Editorial Assistants
Naftali Burakovsky, Nathaniel Walker, Lisa Chik,
Maria SebasSCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
Scientists to Study Italian Village Known for Long Lifespans 
The village of Acciaroli has an unusually high number of centenarian inhabitants and has never before been studied.
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGSee MoreUCSD researchers, in 
collaboration with colleagues at 
University of Rome La Sapienza, 
will have first-time access to study the 
disproportionately high percentage 
of centenarians living in the remote 
village of Acciaroli, Italy. UCSD Health 
announced in a press release on March 
29 that the team hopes to discover 
what combination of genetic and 
environmental factors allow them to 
live longer with lower rates of disease.  
According to UCSD Health, the 
average life expectancy in the United 
States is approximately 78 years and 
only 0.02 percent of Americans will live 
to be over 100 years old. In contrast, 
Acciaroli has a population of 2,000, 
including roughly 300 centenarians. 
According to Lead Investigator 
Alan Maisel, a UCSD professor of 
cardiovascular medicine, 20 percent 
of the centenarians are believed to be 
over 110 years old despite many being 
smokers and overweight.
“We are the first group of researchers to be given permission 
to study this population, ” Maisel 
told UCSD Health. “ The goal of this 
long-term study is to find out why 
this group of 300 is living so long by 
conducting a full genetic analysis and 
examining lifestyle behaviors, like diet 
and exercise. ”
Over the next six months, this 
joint research team will analyze blood 
samples, test for cognitive dysfunction 
and examine resilience to several 
diseases including heart disease and 
Alzheimer’s.
Salk Institute’s Integrative 
Genomics and Bioinformatics 
Core Director Christopher Benner 
believes that longevity is likely due 
to both genetic and environmental 
components.
“With respect to environmental 
influences, the Acciaroli population 
largely eats a Mediterranean diet, 
rich in olive oil, sardines and lots of 
fresh herbs, ” Benner told the UCSD 
Guardian.
According to the Express, experts 
previously credited rosemary, an herb 
commonly used in Mediterranean cooking, for extending the lifespan 
of Italians. Its antioxidant and anti-
inflammatory properties are also 
believed to relieve muscle pain, 
improve circulation and boost the 
immune system.
Acciaroli is located between the 
Tyrrhenian Sea and mountain ranges, 
forcing locals to hike on a daily basis. 
As a result, Maisel noted that people 
allotted time for leisurely activities, but 
few were seen exercising. 
“What shocked me is that I don’t 
see people jogging, I do not see people 
in active exercise classes [and] I don’t 
see them swimming laps in the ocean, ” 
Maisel told NPR. “In the late a fternoon, 
they’re all sitting around the cantinas, 
the restaurants. They’re having some 
wine, some co ffee. They’re relaxed. ”
Genes or metabolites found 
to strongly correlate with healthy 
aging would become the focus of 
follow-up e fforts. Benner explained 
the need for understanding these 
molecular roles in opening doors for 
potential therapeutic intervention.
“The overarching goal of aging 
research and therapies, other than a longer life, is to simultaneously 
prevent or treat the large collection 
of aging-associated diseases at 
once, ” Benner told the Guardian. 
“For example, living a healthy, active 
lifestyle with lots of exercise reduces 
your odds of heart diseases, type II 
diabetes, liver disease, many types of 
cancer, etc. Is there a supplement or 
small molecule that can compliment 
that approach?”
Lead Italian Investigator and 
Director of Emergency Medicine 
at University of Rome La Sapienza 
Salvatore Di Somma believes 
that this joint study will further 
encourage scientists all over the 
world to work together.
“This project will not only 
help unlock some of the secrets of 
healthy aging, but will build closer 
ties with researchers globally, which 
will lead to improved clinical care in 
our aging population, ” Di Somma 
told UCSD Health. 
LISA  CHIK   LCHIK@UCSD.EDU
Dr. Terranova, Dr. Sherman, and Dr. Horne
TORREY PINES
DENTAL ARTS
We welcome UCSD Staff & Students
Richard L Sherman DDS
Steven B. Horne DDS
Scripps/Ximed Medical Center
9850 Genessee Avenue #720
La Jolla, CA 92037
858-453-5525
Info@TorreyPinesDentalArts.com
www.TorreyPinesDentalArts.com'"! $! $
$""
'"	!# !
'%""!
 !
'
!&!! #!
 " !! "	!
"	#!By  L I SA   C H I K
SENIOR STAFF WRITER“I feel like we spend a lot of time 
doing a lot of theoretical studies but 
we don’t get to explore and experience 
hands on aspects of engineering, ” Ortiz 
said. “I feel like [the Make-A-Thon 
is] a great opportunity to learn more 
beyond just the classroom setting. ”
Warren senior Brenda Pham, one 
of Ortiz’s teammates, added that the 
event is akin to a quarter-long class 
but takes place in a much shorter 
timeframe. 
“This is comparable to [a] class 
where you have a whole ten-week 
period, ” Pham said. “But now it’s 
condensed into three days and you get 
to make something more tangible and more fun. ”
Muir College senior Jeffrey W ang, 
another one of Ortiz’s teammates, 
pointed out that the Make-A-Thon is 
a hands-on alternative to what is called 
a Hackathon, during which students 
gather together and program for 24 or 
36 hours.
“[Hackathons are] usually software 
because it’s easy to build things in 
software, whereas we’re mechanical 
engineers and it’s not that easy to build 
a car in 36 hours, ” Wang said.
Autodesk, Robo3D and Sixth 
College Student Council were the 
official sponsors of the event.to pursue these activities. ”
Clark also told the Guardian 
about how overnight programs 
can help incoming students better 
transition into UCSD.
“[Students] transitioning to UC San 
Diego … may participate in overnight 
programs before the academic year 
begins, ” Clark said. “These programs 
allow participants to live with a host 
student mentor and are integrated 
into everyday life on campus, from 
visiting classes to touring academic 
departments and interacting with 
student organizations. ”
Clark added that the Assistant 
Vice Chancellor of Student Retention and Success Jeffrey Orgera has been 
working with UCSD to reach out 
to underrepresented groups and 
develop ways to help them succeed 
academically. 
“Orgera leads a team at UC 
San Diego that provides academic 
success services to several distinct 
student populations that includes 
historically underrepresented 
students, undocumented students, 
military-affiliated students, 
international students and others, ” 
Clark said. “The team also is 
collaborating with the six colleges 
and other units on campus to 
develop more comprehensive 
academic support services for all 
students on campus regardless of their ability to pay. ”
In addition to the Department 
of Education, other sources have 
praised UCSD for being affordable 
and accessible. The New York Times 
ranked UCSD fourth in its College 
Access Index, which measures 
schools by the quality of services 
they offer to students in need of 
financial aid. The Washington 
Monthly also named UCSD the best 
university, for the sixth consecutive 
year, at acting on behalf of the public 
interest in the areas of “research, 
service and social mobility. ”same time, considering that the UCs 
need to profit, I can see how [lowering 
standards] is working for them. ”
However, Gaur takes issue with 
the way lowering standards portrays 
international students.
“That is objectifying a person, ” 
Gaur said. “Basically, you are 
reducing the status of a human into a 
[monetary] value. ”
In response to the report, the UC 
Office of the President published 
“Straight Talk on Hot-Button Issues” 
on Tuesday and a March 8 letter from 
UC President Janet Napolitano to 
Howle disputing the auditor’s claims.  
“Unfortunately, the draft report 
that has been shared with us makes 
inferences and draws conclusions that 
are supported neither by the data nor 
by sound analysis, ” Napolitano stated 
in the letter. “To suggest from the 
outset that UC decisions regarding 
admissions were designed to 
‘disadvantage Californians, ’ as opposed to mitigate the impact of a 33 percent 
budget cut, is a rush to judgment that 
is both unfair and unwarranted. ”
“Straight Talk” discusses a number 
of different factors regarding the 
universities’ funding and enrollment 
process in its argument against 
Howle’s report. 
According to one section of the 
report, the UC system admitting 
an additional 5,000 California 
undergraduates in the upcoming 
academic year demonstrates its 
commitment to resident students. 
The report also states that there 
is no set limit to the number of 
students accepted each year. “Straight 
Talk” specifies that the number of 
admissions depends on how many 
students UC campuses can fund and 
admitting more nonresidents has no 
bearing on the number of California 
students accepted.  
Howle suggested that the UC system 
should instead have taken actions 
“to generate savings and revenue 
internally” to resolve its financial problems, such as reconsidering its 
increase of employees’ salaries, the 
amount of money given to the Working 
Smarter initiative and the distribution 
of funding between campuses. 
Napolitano dismissed such 
suggestions as unproductive to 
providing effective change.
“We would have preferred a 
constructive set of recommendations 
that could help move the University 
and the state forward, ” Napolitano 
said in her letter. “We are deeply 
disappointed at this lost opportunity. ”
California Assemblyman Kevin 
McCarty (D-Sacramento) also 
responded to the report by issuing a 
press release saying that the report 
demonstrates the need for his 
and Assemblyman Jose Medina’s 
(D-Riverside) bill, proposed in January, 
that would cap nonresident enrollment 
at its current 15.5 percent.NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 4, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
UC President Called Auditor’s Allegations Unfair and Unsupported
New York Times Praised UCSD for Treatment of  Low-Income Students▶ AUDIT,  from page 1
▶ LOW-INCOME,  from page 1Lauren hol t   
mario espinoza   Maria sebas   LIGHTS & SIRENSLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edu.
Sunday, March 27
7:36 p.m. DUI/Non-Injury Collision
Following an investigation of a solo 
vehicle traffic collision, driver was 
arrested for DUI and passenger 
was transported to detox for public 
intoxication. Closed by adult arrest.
Monday, March 28
9:53 p.m. Medical Aid
Young adult male with high fever, 
going in and out of consciousness. 
Transported to hospital.
Tuesday, March 29
12:49 a.m. Tamper with Fire Alarm
Unknown suspect(s) pulled fire 
alarm pull station in absence of 
emergency.  Report taken.
6:43 a.m. Welfare Check
Two subjects with hospital blankets 
over their heads walking in and out of traffic. Gone on arrival.
Wednesday, March 30
1:36 a.m. Noise Disturbance
Loud music, resident cursed at 
complainant when asked to turn 
down music.  Written warning issue.
7:03 a.m. Injury
Adult female fell down steps, 
injuring knee and arm. Transported 
to hospital.
Thursday, March 31
7:13 p.m. Drunk in Public
Adult male asked for water cup and 
got upset when told it cost 25 cents, 
and then brought out a bottle of 
liquor.  Unable to locate. 
— JACKY  TO 
News Editor
          
18172_10x8 OL.indd   1 12/14/2015   3:13:40 PMOrtiz: Contest Provides Hands-On Experience
▶ MAKE-A-THON,  from page 14  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 4, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
CONTACT THE EDITOR
QUINN  PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
See WAGES, page 5On Monday, March 28, California Gov. Jerry Brown, in conjunction with 
legislators and labor leaders, unveiled an initiative to raise the state minimum 
wage from the current $10 an hour to $15 by 2022. Over the course of last 
week, the legislation passed various hurdles relatively quickly, while stirring 
up quite a few dissenting opinions. Compared to the federal minimum wage 
of $7.25, California already has the highest minimum wage in the nation, 
and with the passing of this measure, would be the first state to enact a $15 
minimum wage. 
The minimum wage question is a constant debate nationally, with 
arguments falling along the lines of how increased wages would either result 
in hurting small businesses or in providing living wages for low-income 
workers. Though many have lauded California’s proposal as a historic 
moment for labor groups and minimum-wage workers, economic analysts 
are uncertain whether or not this will be bene ficial. Such a large increase has 
never been done before, and there is no data to predict its consequences. 
More importantly, the living wage di ffers vastly across California, and 
imposing a single wage rate on counties with lower costs of living could hurt 
them economically.
Supporters of this legislation argue that this is an unprecedented win for 
workers in industries like agriculture, retail and restaurants, whose paychecks 
do not amount to a living wage. The Los Angeles Times reported that the new 
raise is estimated to increase the income of 5.6 million people, or nearly one 
in three Californians. A proponent of the bill, Democrat Sen. Mark Leno of San Francisco, also told the Sacramento Bee that it “will literally li ft over 2 
million Californians out of poverty because they are working full time today 
and earning a sub-poverty wage. ” Though Governor Brown has similarly 
applauded the legislation, he was also quick to reassure panicked financial 
interests that it would proceed in a “careful and responsible” manner. As 
reported by the Bee, under the new plan the minimum wage would gradually 
rise to $10.50 next Jan. 1, then to $11 by the next year and subsequent 
increases of $1 a year, so that by 2022, it will be $15 an hour. Further, there are 
measures in place to suspend the increases if they have negative e ffects. 
However, skeptics like W ashington Post writer Charles Lane point out 
that this legislation is the opposite of moderation. In 2022, when the $15 
minimum is fully implemented, he writes that the minimum wage would 
represent 69 percent of California’s median hourly wage. Typically, states set 
the minimum at just half the median wage, which is what California’s current 
minimum is. A wage increase as drastic and rapid as this one will possibly 
outpace businesses that can’t a fford to pay their low-level employees more 
than the current minimum. 
Another reason this new $15 minimum wage could be problematic is 
that the living wage di ffers vastly across the state. Though the living wage 
in San Francisco County is currently $14.37, according to the MIT living 
wage calculator, in Mariposa County just outside of Merced, California, it 
is currently $10.26. An increase in the minimum wage so that it matches 
an area’s living wage makes sense for expensive counties like San Francisco 
QUICK TAKESMARKETED AS A TEENAGE GIRL, TAY — MICROSOFT’S MOST RECENT BOT — WAS CREATED TO EXPLORE THE 
INTERNET THROUGH MIMICKING USERS. WITHIN HOURS, SHE TURNED INTO AN ANTISIMETIC, XENOPHOBIC MONSTER. How-To 
Guru:
Be a Good 
Role Model
Emerging from a long and cold 
winter of 60-degree days and almost 
monthly rain, we’ve finally made it 
to spring, and so have high school 
seniors exploring their options for 
upcoming years. As these tourists 
begin to explore our campus, it’s 
vital in these busy weeks of college 
decisions that UCSD students serve 
as enthusiastic and representative role 
models of our institution. To navigate 
campus during this exciting time, the 
How-to Guru has some useful tips. 
These students will remember 
you — whether you like it or not. 
Whether running to class, traveling 
on hoverboard, or navigating the 
crowds via bike, you’re going to be 
in plain sight, representing not only 
the institution but the University of 
California. Y ou’re worth millions. 
This is why you need to always dress 
in classic San Diego attire, namely 
swimsuits and flip flops. However, the 
Guru knows that classes can be early 
and not everyone can muster the 
extra 15 seconds to make themselves 
presentable for the throngs of hopeful 
UCSD applicants. If this is the case, 
it’s perfectly acceptable to skip 
showering and to wear just pajamas 
to class.
However, it can be daunting 
to always be smiling and waving 
at UCSD’s tourists. Therefore, 
our friendly administrator Janet 
Napolitano has contracted with 
the La Jolla Playhouse to provide 
professional actors to greet and 
socialize with UCSD hopefuls. 
These actors are trained to highlight 
UCSD’s ample parking, fantastic 
dining hall food and our new 
Division-0 sports team (that’s a 
whole division higher than Division 
I). While this may seem misleading, 
it’s all for the greater good of getting 
as many applicants as possible and 
therefore as many application fees 
as possible. After all, UCSD has 
taught us that money is really all 
that matters, and those $70 fees per 
applicant are a healthy bonus toward 
reducing our tuition.
Despite constant attempts to 
show tourists how amazing UCSD 
is, some find themselves thinking 
that maybe this school isn’t as 
great as our actors make it appear. 
Our computer science department 
has craftily created the new “Janet 
Vision, ” a state-of-the-art virtual 
reality system that allows tour 
groups to experience a utopian 
college with gleaming skyscrapers 
and world-class academics. Tour 
groups are taken into the bowels 
of the computer science building 
and quickly outfitted with a headset 
depicting a truly perfect campus. 
After this “re-education” with the VR 
headsets, 100 percent of all tourists 
apply to our fantastic campus!
Springtime really is a fantastic 
season for aspiring college students. 
Make sure to do your part to 
encourage them to pursue higher 
education by always highlighting 
how fantastic our school is. If a 
high school student asks about 
a less-than-perfect aspect of our 
campus, you can always smile and 
lie. Remember, it’s not your job to 
tell these students about the real 
world — they need to figure it out 
on their own.Tech Companies Must Address 
Sexism in Products and WorkforceObscene Bigoted Language T oward 
Tay Reflects the Atittudes of UsersRepresentation in Companies Necessary 
to Combat Misogyny Illustrated via Tay
In relying on women’s voices for chat 
services like Tay, assistants such as Siri, and even 
“girlfriend-serving” chatbots like Xiaoice, the 
tech industry depicts women as manipulatable 
servants. So while Microsoft works to reboot Tay, 
a prominent question lies in her wake: How is the 
tech industry still so blatantly sexist? Companies 
such as Microsoft fail to address the issues of 
sexism within the workplace, which perpetuates 
the core problem of this sexism-related issue.
According to The Telegraph, Microsoft had 
another recent sexism scandal in March when 
workers hired countless female dancers dressed 
in provocative school-girl outfits for their 
game-developer party. And, relative to the issue 
of female chatbots, Microsoft has also created 
Xiaoice in China, as stated by The Telegraph, to 
serve as a girlfriend and provide dating advice, 
and it’s used by approximately 20 million people. 
Y et these services modeled after females fail to 
have basic understandings of concepts highly 
relevant to women — such as rape and domestic 
violence, according to The Guardian. And despite 
women’s attempts to advance their positions in 
technology, companies continue to ignore their 
efforts. Take, for instance, the summit at South 
by Southwest, which worked to address abusive 
language toward women online. Despite its 
importance, the entire summit had been “isolated 
away from the main conference and reportedly 
attended only by the few brave souls already 
aware of the issue, ” according to The Guardian.
It remains vital that tech companies address 
the issues within their own workforce and in the 
very technology that they release to the public in 
order to eliminate sexism in the industry. Unless 
companies tackle the issue head first, it is highly 
unlikely it will be eliminated any time soon.
             — EMILY COLLINS
Staff WriterA machine by itself can do neither good 
nor evil, so the humans who make use of 
it bear full responsibility to use it well. 
Microsoft’s new chatbot shows us just how 
much users shape a technology’s ethics, even 
more so than its creators. Tay’s bigotry on 
Twitter clearly mirrors the flaws and biases of 
her users.
Microsoft announced that Tay’s purpose 
was to “speak as a teen girl, ” ostensibly to 
make her relatable, empathetic and accessible 
to her users, those who engage with her on 
Twitter. However, Tay and other chatbots 
have no true age or gender and will adapt 
their own personas based on interactions 
with their users. Even if Microsoft had 
designed a chatbot, sans gender, with an 
avatar and voice automatically generated to 
maximize relatability, its users would still 
anthropomorphize it, assigning gender and 
other personal qualities to it, and treat it 
accordingly.
Thus, Tay serves as a litmus test for the 
kind of behaviors and attitudes that pervade 
the Internet. Users ostensibly corrupted Tay 
as a joke, trolling her with bouts of racism 
and sexism just for the irony of it, but anyone 
who frequents social networks knows the 
real prevalence of these “ironic” prejudices. 
Sarcasm gets lost in the medium, and mock 
bigotry becomes indistinguishable from the 
real thing, making many corners of the web 
a far less comfortable places for women and 
minorities. Tay either became a masterful 
troll or a genuine bigot, and the fact that the 
two look the same shows us the ugly truth 
about our society’s online culture. Regardless 
of creator intent, users bear the ultimate 
responsibility to use technology for good.
                 — THOMAS FINN
Senior Staff WriterThrough Microsoft’s “Tay, ” we gain insight into 
the rhetoric that female activists, game developers 
and engineers who live online face every day. For 
example, Gamergate, a controversial movement in 
2014 led by an alliance of anti-feminists, resulted 
in game developer Zoe Quinn and critic Anita 
Sarkeesian facing disturbing death and rape 
threats, forcing them to flee from their homes for 
questioning sexism in video games. In the male-
dominated technology industry, women’s safety 
and equality online are not treated as central issues. 
To further the conversation, we need more women 
in technology.
It’s no surprise that sexism is an obstacle in 
the tech industry. According to the Huffington 
Post, in Silicon V alley, nearly half the companies 
have no female executives, and, as ascertained 
by a V alueW alk infographic, only 18 percent of 
all tech startups in the United States have at least 
one female founder. In response, companies have 
been reforming by turning to wage transparency 
and releasing reports indicating the number of 
female employees. Activists such as Facebook 
Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg have 
been speaking out on gender disparity, stating that 
Facebook provides employees training to correct 
their unconscious biases. The issue is even being 
tackled at a young age, with organizations like Girls 
Who Code and SciGirls.
However, the misconceptions associated with 
women in tech, as seen by promotional videos 
portraying “geek girls” as sex symbols, are still 
pervasive, and young girls are not experiencing 
the same level of support for pursuing STEM 
careers as their male counterparts. With more 
female executives in tech, we will see an increase in 
representation and diversity. In the future, bots like 
Tay will not face this same reaction online because 
women will not be seen as technologically inferior.
                                 — AARTHI VENKAT  
Staff WriterJerry Brown’s propostion to raise California’s minimum 
wage to $15 an hour is ambitious, but may be too simplistic 
to truly benefit Californian workers and employers.BY SOPHIE OSBORN // STAFF WRITER
ILLUSTRA TION    B Y   CHRISTINA   CARLSON
THE  RIGHT 
W A Y  TO 
RAISE   W AGEOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 4, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
County. For rural areas where the cost 
of living is lower or where there are 
economic struggles, this new statewide 
plan could be very harmful. 
In contrast, Oregon recently passed 
legislation to increase its minimum 
wage. Voice of America News 
reported that though Oregon’s law 
raises minimum wage to just under 
$15 by 2022, similar to California’s 
law, the rates will di ffer by counties. 
According to Oregon Live, the highest 
rate of $14.75 will apply to urban areas 
such as Portland, while in mid-sized 
counties it will be raised to $13.50. 
Rural counties, some of which are 
facing economic struggles, will have the lowest minimum of $12.50 by 
2022. Oregon’s actions highlight how 
California’s new legislation could be 
forcing a “one-size- fits-all” solution to 
wage injustice on poorer counties.
The negative consequences that this 
new minimum wage might have on 
the state’s economies raise important 
questions for the current movement 
for a higher federal minimum wage. 
The current federal minimum wage, 
$7.25, has not been changed in six 
years and is currently just 38 percent 
of the national median wage. With the 
Bernie Sanders campaign pledging 
to raise it to $15 and Hillary Clinton’s 
promise to raise it to $12, various 
interests are uniting to adjust it to 
a liveable amount. However, before we jump on the bandwagon of what 
sounds like a great idea for low-level 
workers and those living below the 
poverty line, we should carefully read 
into the details of proposed plans and 
determine what the realistic problems 
are. Legislation like California’s may 
be too simplistic in its vision, ignoring 
the variety of counties’ economic 
situations. An unprecedented and 
drastic wage raise to $15 nationally 
could have unforeseen consequences 
for states with lower costs of living, just 
as California’s plan could back fire on 
poorer counties.
Differences in Counties’ Cost of Living Should Factor into Wage Increase
▶ WAGES from page 4WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
LIKE US ON
 FACEBOOK
facebook.com/ucsdguardian
SOPHIE OSBORN                      6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 4, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
CONTACT THE EDITOR
ALLISON   KUBO
features@ucsdguardian.org
a.s. endorsements
The Guardian Editorial Board offers their take on the 2016 A.S. Council Elections. We conducted interviews with the presidential 
candidate, as well as both vice-president of external affairs candidates and both campus affairs candidates. In addition, we spoke 
with the twelve students running for the five campus-wide senator positions. Every individual we spoke to demonstrated a passion for 
improving student life. Thus, our endorsements reflect who we believe would be the most qualified to actualize their goals at UCSD 
during their one-year terms in office.
Starting Monday, students will be able to vote on a proposal to add $14.92 to the quarterly Associated 
Students Campus Activity Fee, increasing the Activity Fee from $52.33 to $67.25 per quarter, effective Fall 2016.
Forty-seven percent will go to student events and organizations; 29 percent of the revenue from the fee 
will go to financial aid for undergraduate students and 20 percent will go to Student Promoted Access Center 
for Education and Service, which focuses on improving access to higher education and retention of university 
students. Additionally, 4 percent will go to the Student Sustainability Collective, a student-run subset of the 
Sustainability Resource Center that focuses on increasing environmentally friendly practices at UCSD.
Among the student events the fee will help fund are Sun God Festival, Bear Garden and Hullabaloo. At the 
same time, this money will go to the Triton Food Pantry, an organization founded in Spring 2015 to provide 
food for students experiencing food insecurity. This portion of the fee will also cover travel expenses for 
UCSD student-representatives to attend meetings with the UC Student Association, UC Regents and the UC 
Office of the President.University   Center   Fee    Referendum
+  pro -  con$14.92
in Fall 2016
Total$67.25 
per quarterillustration by Christina Carlson     photos used with permission from by election slate       compiled by Guardian Editorial Board
tHelps ensure that student organizations are adequately funded.
tEnsures that A.S. Council is represented at statewide UC meetings.
tIncreases access to higher education via SPACES.
tProvides funding for Sun God Festival and maintaining the quality of the performances 
and activities.
tHelps fight food insecurity among UCSD students through the Triton Food Pantry.
tMakes UCSD more environmentally friendly through the Student Sustainability Collective.tThe Student Sustainability Collective already receives $2.34 per student per quarter, and this 
referendum will increase it to $2.94 per quarter. SSC is already adequately funded, receiving 
4.47 percent of A.S. Council’s budget and UCSD is already environmentally sustainable; the 
fee increase isn’t worth the cost.
tSome of the SSC’s activities may increase the cost of products sold at UCSD’s markets, 
hurting students’ already tight budgets.The UCSD  GUARDIAN  
ENDORSES  THIS  REFEReNDUMFEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 4, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
Sabrina  Ekdahl
With a practical approach to campus-wide issues, Sabrina Ekdahl is a candidate who will be active in 
engaging UCSD students with simple solutions that can go a long way. When it comes to the housing 
crisis on our campus, Ekdahl acknowledges that building more residence halls will be neither quick 
nor cost-effective. Rather, Ekdahl understands that some students will have to live off campus and 
believes a better, immediate alternative is providing adequate resources to prepare for that initial 
move. Ekdahl is also an advocate for addressing the pervasive mental health issues on our campus at 
a more base level through preventative measures to aid students. By tackling it alongside food and 
housing insecurity, Ekdahl hopes to relieve the overflow of students reaching out to CAPS, reducing 
the pressure on both students and psychologists alike. Along with Ekdahl’s pragmatic approaches 
to housing and mental health, she has shown a respectful understanding of diversity, inclusion and 
sexual assault on our campus, understanding her own privilege and seeking to work with affected 
communities to develop effective programs. Overall, Ekdahl is a well-rounded candidate for Vice 
President of Campus Affairs who will work with students toward meaningful short-term and long-
term solutions.Tritons United
Lauren   Roberts   
Clear, concise and to the point, Lauren Roberts is a candidate well-versed in both UC-
wide and UCSD issues, presenting specific platforms on undocumented immigrants, 
factors impacting racial diversity on our campus, and mental health. Roberts wants to 
work toward establishing all the universities in the UC system as sanctuary campuses to 
protect, rather than infringe upon, all students’ educations. Using funds from the same 
budget to spend on schools and prisons is an issue Roberts is especially enthusiastic 
about and wants to address through student coalitions as well as dialogues between 
those demographics affected by high rates of incarceration. Along with her use of 
students as a focal point for racial diversity, Roberts plans to pursue a more widespread 
mental health resource approach by partnering with Active Minds to have Counseling 
and Psychological Services-certified peer educators to not only alleviate the impacted 
CAPS services but to build a stronger sense of community through students themselves. 
Overall, Roberts has an impressive resume as a student leader at UCSD and the 
necessary mindset to approach the position of Vice President External Affairs: To have 
impactful legislation, the students at the UC campuses must be educated and motivated 
to want to see that change; Roberts is the candidate to whip up that fervor.Students Determined
With realistic plans, tangible solutions, ample experience and genuine 
passion, it is clear to us that Daniel Juarez will be the A.S. President 
UCSD deserves and needs.  As a volunteer for campus affairs, a 
founding member of Triton Lobby Corps, a member on the UCSA board of 
directors, and a coordinator for the Raza Resource Center — among other 
positions — she has gained insight as to how to pursue realistic, meaningful 
courses of action on campus. Juarez recognizes the urgency of housing insecurity 
and the influx of students on their way to UCSD, and has pragmatic plans to 
alleviate students of this burden by working with local legislators — such as 
Assemblymembers Shirley Weber and Lorena Gonzalez — to provide housing. 
Across the board, her plans illustrate a dedication to utilizing resources in order 
to provide students with necessary services — this includes creating workshops to 
help qualifying students sign up for CalFresh, and working with the Counseling 
and Psychological Services director to shorten wait time, allow walk-ins, diversify 
staff and improve access to mental health services. It is unsurprising to learn that 
she advocated in 2012 for Prop 30 — legislation that passed and prevented tuition 
raise. Juarez is a leader who not only recognizes but fights — and will continue to 
fight — for student voices, the importance of grassroots advocacy, and the need for 
equitable, accessible and inclusive college education. Students Determined
VP  Campus Aff airsVP  External Aff airsA.S.  CounCil  PresidentDANIEL JUAREZ
See page 8  for endorsements of Campuswide Senators.8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 4, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
Campus-wide  sena tor
Campus-wide  sena torCampus-wide  sena tor
Campus-wide  sena tor
Campus-wide  sena torSoul.  That’s what second-year candidate Morgan Kuwashima will bring to each one of her projects as A.S. Campus-wide Senator. Although 
she’s only a second-year, Morgan personally understands that an understaffed Counseling and Psychological Services is a systemic problem 
and that conversations surrounding the issue needs to be an inherent part of campus rhetoric. Furthermore, she realizes that the most 
effective way to improve student life is by standing in solidarity with her fellow student leaders: identifying common goals and developing 
creative solutions to address them. According to Morgan, spirit at UCSD is a problem and moving up to Division-I will indeed improve 
how students experience their campus. Most individuals in favor of the referendum would agree. However, Morgan contextualizes the issue 
of community on campus in the long-term through her “Dine with an Alum” program. Alumni would therefore choose to visit UCSD 
not only to cheer on the Tritons at games but to provide mentorship and foster personal ties with current students. Morgan’s passion for 
students’ well-being is what inspired her to run for A.S. Council; however, her faith in students is what will sustain her projects and solidify 
real, positive changes at UCSD.
Desiree Johnson of Tritons United hopes to represent both the pre-med and black communities if elected and 
has the experience and drive to be an effective voice for both communities. Johnson served on the First Y ear 
Council, then as the Warren College Student Council ASCE Representative, all the while interning for Porter’s 
Pub and working as a health peer educator at the Career Center. Meanwhile, her involvement with Black Student 
Union gives Johnson the necessary experience to start conversations about diversity and inclusion at UCSD while 
facilitating conversations between different cultural and activist organizations about improving campus climate. 
To address the UCSD pre-med students, Johnson aims to start an umbrella organization for leaders of the many 
pre-med organizations to increase cooperation between the groups. Additionally, Johnson aims to enact a bike 
program similar to that of UC Davis. Her plans would allow student to swipe their ID cards at one point on 
campus and receive a “zip bike” to ride to their next class. Overall, Johnson’s community involvement and clear 
ideas for improving on campus transportation make Johnson a valuable addition to next year’s A.S. Council.Being one of the few independent candidates running for A.S. Campus-wide Senator positions, Aditi Gautam has a strong 
personal opinion on how to approach the issues of campus climate, ineffective usage of tuition money, student spaces availability 
and mental health. Throughout her college career, Aditi has obtained necessary experience, both in collaborating with different 
student populations during student protests and on a day-to-day basis. In addition, as an activist and a co-op volunteer, she 
has been maintaining a fruitful dialog with UCSD authorities, which allows her to effectively communicate students’ needs to 
the campus administration should she become a Campus-wide Senator. A strong believer in students’ agency, Aditi chose “ A 
university of the students, for the students and by the students” as her slogan to highlight the need for student-run structure of the 
university government. On A.S. Council,  Aditi Gautam not only will be successful at granting students the voice and authority 
they deserve, but also will fight for more transparency in university funds distribution, as she believes that it will prevent tuition 
hikes and unfair prioritization of administration’s budgeting over investment in student resources. Cooperation, transparency and 
agency is what Aditi stands for, and is what A. S. needs to fight for to make UCSD a favorable environment for all students. Lesly Figueroa’s strength lies in the way she frames her thoughts on campus issues, which is through her 
passion for food and housing sustainability. This is an angle that few other candidates chose to take. Overall, 
Figueroa wishes to fix prominent campus issues through peer-based education. Figueroa hopes that this will 
foster a sense of understanding between opposing groups on campus. Specifically, peer-based education could 
also be used as an alternative to Counseling and Psychological Services, which Figueroa admits is — despite 
doing its best with the resources at hand — unable to fully address the mental health needs of students on 
campus. But what really drives Figueroa’s platform is a commitment to raising awareness on sustainability in 
agricultural and waste-management systems. Figueroa also wishes to educate students about where food comes 
from and who’s growing it, and to ensure that Housing, Dining and Hospitality is held accountable for recycling 
and composting. By addressing problems that no other candidate has addressed, and through her commitment 
to student-based solutions, Figueroa would be a welcome addition to the student senate.
Spirited and balanced, Rachel sticks out for her critical approach to issues facing our campus. Her priority is 
bringing peer-to-peer mental health counseling to UCSD, which she hopes will give students an outlet to share 
their daily struggles and psychology majors an opportunity to acquire practical experience. She also wants to 
work towards diversifying the Counseling and Psychological Services staff to improve relatability and towards 
moving its office to a more central location to prevent the inconvenience of walking to Revelle from posing a 
barrier to students in need of assistance. In regard to free speech, as much as she is adamantly anti-censorship, 
she also believes that the voices of students should be heard, both in print and through the decisions of their 
leaders. Furthermore, she aspires to support student-run businesses, including the existing co-ops, which she 
values for the pragmatic skills that they offer to teach. Overall, Rachel is a thoughtful candidate who’s likely to 
be effectual in her areas of expertise. Morgan   Kuw ashima Tritons United
Desiree   Johnson Tritons UnitedAditi   Gaut am IndependentLesl y  Figueroa Students Determined
Rachel   Adams  Students DeterminedCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 4, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
XYLO W/ TOJOU
THE LOFT, PC EASTSAT 4.09 • 9pmTahrirCAMPUS
CALENDAR
APR 4 - APR 102016 POWERED BY THE CHANCELLOR’S OFFICE AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
MON 4.04 WED 4.06 TUE 4.05
ALL WEEK
UCSD CARES WEEK- PRICE CENTER & LIBRARY WALK
For the month of April, CSI community Service will be holding 
the UCSD Cares campaign, promoting awareness, education 
and action on key social, environmental, and health related 
issues, and showing UC San Diego students how they can help 
make a difference in the lives of our local and global 
community, as well as their fellow Tritons. Monday, April 4th 
marks the commencement of the 2016 UCSD Cares Week, with 
events each day focused on a different issues, and hosted by 
student organizations, the Center for Student Involvement, and 
various partners on campus and in the community. These 
events will highlight a plethora of community-service and 
outreach opportunities open to all students, emphasizing the 
UC San Diego community-service mentality
11am
ART & SOUL: MAGAZINE PATTERN COLLAGES- THE ZONE
Create a collage of patterns out of magazine cutouts! 
Workshops are free; all supplies and materials provided. Space 
is limited and is first come, first served. Questions? Contact 
The Zone at zone@ucsd.edu.
5pm
AA CAMPUS MEETING- THE ZONE
Open AA Meeting held at the Zone every Monday from 5:00 
PM- 6:00 PM.
7pm
BLABBERMOUTH- THE LOFT, PC EAST
Have a song or story to share? Blabbermouth is a monthly 
event held at The Loft, giving writers of prose, poetry, and 
fiction, as well as musicians and performers a place to share 
their art. Sign up here: tinyurl.com/BlabbermouthOpenMic
FRI4.08
3pm 
DE-STRESS W/ BIOFEEDBACK- THE ZONE
Come de-stress with the CAPs Wellness Peers! Measure 
your psychological stressors and learn more about what 
makes you most stressed, how it affects your well-being 
and how to keep your stress levels down!  Workshops are all 
free. Space is limited and is first come, first served. Hosted 
by the CAPS Wellness Peer Educators
8pm
MUIR MUSICAL PRESENTS IN THE HEIGHTS!- MANDEVILLE 
AUDITORIUM
Muir Musical Ensemble returns April 2-3th and 7-9th with a 
performance of "In the Heights". Produced by a talented 
cast of undergraduate students, the musical revolves around 
the largely Dominican American neighborhood of 
Washington Heights in New York City. Written by Lin-Manuel 
Miranda, "In the Heights"   features contemporary art forms 
such as hip-hop, salsa and rap and offers insight into the 
complex cultural and political landscape of the United 
States. Celebrating its 25th year, the Muir Musical is the 
largest and only completely student directed and produced 
musical theater event on campus. The production is 
comprised of more than 75 dedicated undergraduate 
students representing all six colleges and various majors. 11am
BODY COMPOSITION- THE ZONE
Walk in for your free analysis which includes: body weight, 
percentage body fat, total body water, and blood pressure. One 
free assessment per quarter is available to registered UCSD 
students. For more information visit: 
http://studenthealth.ucsd.edu/bodycomposition.shtml
11am
(SAFER) SEX SHOP + CONDOM BAR- THE ZONE
(Safer) Sex Shop + Condom Bar at The Zone! Stop by and get 
#FREE safer sex supplies and learn how you can make sex 
safer and fun! Questions? Contact Debbie Kim at 
deborahk@ucsd.edu
12pm
ROOTS IN THE SAND FILM SCREENING- SEUSS ROOM, GEISEL 
LIBRARY
Join us for a screening of Roots in the Sand. This documentary 
is a multi-generational portrait of pioneering Punjabi-Mexican 
families who settled a century ago, in Southern California's 
Imperial Valley.
12pm
SUMMER SESSION, HOUSING AND FINANCIAL AID INFO SESSION- 
RED SHOE ROOM, PRICE CENTER
Watch as UC San Diego Women's Tennis takes on Nevada.
1pm
IDENTITY THEFT AND HOW TO PROTECT YOURSELF- THE ZONE
Come check out our new Financial Wellness Workshops at The 
Zone! Hosted by the Financial Aid and Scholarship Office and 
the Identity Theft Resource Center. 
2:30pm
CAREER CHATS W/ CSC- THE ZONE
Watch as UC San Diego Women's Tennis takes on Nevada.
3pm
A LOCAL AFFAIR: GOVERNMENT AND NON-PROFIT 
NETWORKING- THE LOFT, PC EAST
Navigating the sea of internship and volunteer opportunities 
can be a tough and tedious task - especially without the right 
connections. Luckily, the A.S. Office of Local Affairs and the 
Career Services Center are here for you! Join us for an 
afternoon of networking and noshing with local government 
and non-profit offices, who have dedicated their life's work to 
improving the quality of life in SD. Our goal is to serve as a 
liaison between UCSD and the surrounding community, so that 
anyone with an interest in gaining hands-on experience can get 
a foot in the door.10am
FITNESS ZONE: HATHA STRETCH- THE ZONE
Come after your workout for a deep stretch class. Using props 
like blocks, straps, yoga therapy balls this class can incorporate 
myofascial or other techniques to release stress or tension from 
the body. 
12:30pm
FILM PREMIER - FALLEN STAR: FINDING HOME- ATKINSON 
AUDITORIUM, CALIT2
The Stuart Collection is pleased to present the world premier of 
"Fallen Star: Finding Home", a film by Do Ho Suh; directed by 
Vera Brunner-Sung and Valerie Stadler; images by Do Ho Suh 
Studios. Perched atop the seventh floor of EBU1, Do Ho Suh's 
"Fallen Star"   is a campus landmark. It's planning required 
years of effort and innovations in architecture, construction, and 
engineering. Why did so many people get behind such an 
improbable idea, and work so hard to make it a reality? This is 
the story of collaboration and the ways that art can surprise 
you. The artist will be present. Seating is limited. First come - 
first served. Admission is free. Screenings at 12:30pm and 
2:30pm
5pm
SUMMER IS COMING!- THE VILLAGE BUILDING 2, CONFERENCE 
ROOM C
Thinking about summer? Have questions about financial aid or 
internships? Come to this info session to learn about summer 
classes, housing, internships & financial aid!
6pm
ASCE PANEL SERIES PRESENTS: WOMEN IN ENTERTAINMENT- 
PRICE CENTER THEATRE
Join AS Concerts & Events as we will host our first ever 
Entertainment Panel specifically highlighting women in the 
industry. Guest Speakers Include: \Jessica Flores - UCSD 
Department of Music, AGMA Stage Manager, Jordan Coburn - 
OSSIC VR, SHO Services, UCEN Tech, UCSD AS Concerts & 
Events Alumni Marike Fitzgerald - La Jolla Playhouse, WoW 
Festival, Meryl Klemow - Belly Up, Tonight In San Diego 
Moderator: Molly Clark - ArtPower at UC San Diego Date: 
Tuesday, April 5th (4/5/16) Location: PC Theater - UCSD Price 
Center Time: Doors open at 5:30PM, Event from 
6:00PM-7:00PMTHU 4.07
7:30am
ECONOMICS ROUNDTABLE WITH MAUREEN STAPLETON - UC SAN 
DIEGO FACULTY CLUB
Maureen A. Stapleton is the General Manager of the San Diego 
County Water Authority, the regional water agency that 
provides up to 90 percent of all the water used in San Diego 
County. Since taking over the agency in 1996, Stapleton has 
led the Water Authority's diversification efforts and successfully 
developed a comprehensive array of water supply and 
infrastructure programs designed to diversify and improve the 
reliability of San Diego County's water supply. Stapleton 
oversees a dynamic agency, managing a $3.1 billion Capital 
Improvement Program and leading the Water Authority's efforts 
in the region's water supply reliability through implementation 
of the Imperial Valley water transfers, the Carlsbad seawater 
desalination project, advancement of regional water efficiency 
and conservation programs, and water recycling and reuse.
2pm
ACCB PRESENTS: SOCIAL POWER HOUR- PC COMMUTER LOUNGE
Come meet your representatives from All Campus Commuter 
Board and learn more about what we do or suggest ways to 
improve the Commuter Community! Feel free to stop by our 
table in the Price Center to chat and enjoy free food!
4pm
DE-STRESS AT OUR BLOCK PARTY- SEUSS ROOM, GEISEL 
LIBRARY
Have some fun and de-stress by coming to the Geisel Block 
Party to a have a coffee, provided by Housing and Dining and 
enjoy tasty "Block Party" themed snacks. Enter the raffle to 
win exciting prizes such as a multi-device charger, Triton Gift 
Cards and your own building blocks. De-stress further by using 
the sustainable Keva Building Planks and letting your 
imagination flow or follow the examples we'll have on hand to 
receive a prize. You may also collaborate with your friends and 
build a group project.SAT 4.09
6am
VOLUNTEER AT TRITON DAY!- CAMPUS-WIDE
Calling all volunteers! Join Volunteer50 to make Triton Day 
2016 a success. T-shirts, lunch, and other goodies will be 
provided. On Saturday, April 9th, 2016, UC San Diego will 
welcome all newly admitted freshman, their families and the 
campus community to experience Triton Day. The day-long 
event allows our guests to explore the full range of 
opportunities available at UC San Diego, and we need your 
help. 
9pm
XYLO W/ TOJOU- THE LOFT, PC EAST
Check it out here 
https://soundcloud.com/tojou/sets/princess-ep10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 4, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDS$
Gua rdian Classifieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedscrossword
Across
 1 Humped beast
6 Sidewalk eatery
10 Drive in reverse, with “up”
14 McCain beater
15 State with assurance
16 Double-reed woodwind
17 Final bios
18 Grand Theft Auto, e.g.
20 Young man
21 General __ chicken: Chinese dish
23 Stateroom
24 Become fuzzy
25 Nine-to-five grind
27 Sterling afternoon serving pieces
31 Tense
32 Take it easy
33 A/C capacity meas.
36 Best poker pair
37 Dew’s chilly cousin
39 Rachel’s sister
40 Golfing standard
41 Committed perjury
42 Actor Danny
44 Ideal mate
46 Brings into harmony
49 Sales staff members, briefly
50 Made an effort
51 Conceal
52 Highest-ranking USN officer
55 Annual English sports event that 
begins today, and a hint to this 
puzzle’s theme
58 AM/FM apparatus
60 52-Down son
61 Croon
62 Bucky Beaver’s toothpaste
63 Make over
64 Toy dog, briefly
65 Dud of a carDown
 1 Chilly
2 “Mamma Mia!” group
3 Word after nurse or milk
4 CPR performer
5 Final race segment
6 Frolic
7 Hertz competitor
8 G-man
9 Before, in poetry
10 “The African Queen” costar
11 Addis __
12 Stand-up performer
13 New Hampshire city
19 Musical eightsome
22 Foolproof
24 Some men’s underwear
25 Actress Charlotte and explorer John
26 Per what was previously mentioned
27 Suds source
28 Ancient Andean
29 Ogle
30 Wear gradually
33 Suspenders alternative
34 After-bath powder
35 “This can’t be good”
38 Gridiron zebras
39 Pastoral places
41 Tennis great Ivan
43 Put in danger
44 Zuni or Hopi home
45 Recoil in fear
46 Battling
47 “Survivor” unit
48 Measured with a stopwatch
51 Goose’s cry
52 Sixth-day creation
53 Flintstone pet
54 Ghostly sound
56 Paranormal ability
57 Conk out
59 Gorilla, e.g.BIKES
Thule Bike Rack (2 Bikes) - $70. Thule bike 
rack for car/SUV. Only used one time! 
Listing ID: 248020888 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Fixed Gear Bike - $300. The most fun 
fixie ever! Never rode. In box. Listing ID: 
248020886 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Opus Legato Bicycle - $300. A great tour -
ing bicycle. Solid build with accessories including helmet, bicycle pump, front and 
rear lights, panniers and lock. Listing ID: 
247469521 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
ELECTRONICS
PSP Transformers and Spiderman 3 - $8. 
Transformers Revenge of the Fallen and 
Spiderman 3 for PSP . Spiderman box not 
included. Listing ID: 248020971 at ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tion
Samsung Galaxy S6 Edge Plus Gold  - $600. 
It’s in attractive condition. With free case. 
Listing ID: 248020970 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Samsung 65 - $50. 1080p projection televi -
sion. It’s a great television but the picture 
went out so it’s in need of repair. This is an 
ideal television for someone who fixes tele -
visions themselves or knows someone who 
does. Listing ID: 248020968 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
FURNITURE
Antique Wingback Chairs - $150. 
Reupholstered about a year ago. Great 
chairs. Two for $150. They need repairs 
underneath. Selling cheap for that reason. 
Listing ID: 248020994 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more informationWood Picnic Table - $150. Stained ocean 
blue. Comes with benches. Listing ID: 
248020992 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Leather Couches - $1250. Series 20500 
Palmer walnut leather sofa and loveseat. 
Buyer will have to transport. Listing ID: 
248020991 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
W\RXUYLVLRQ
RXUmLVVLRQ
madeWRRUdeU#XFVdedXCreate custom apparel to 
promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
Poster Printing 
Color CopIES
Print PDF Files
 
CAL COPY  Course Reader Printing Post 
Office • USPS • FedEx  
DHL International  
858-452-9949
www.calcopy.com(across RockBottom)SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 4, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
It’s 2016, an even-numbered year, which in Major League 
Baseball means the San Francisco Giants are going home with 
the grand prize. As a Giants-hating, A ’s-loving San Francisco 
native, even I have to admit another World Series title is within 
the realm of plausibility. But despite the chances of another 
parade in downtown San Francisco (not the kind you’re probably 
thinking of), the Giants have four other teams in their own state 
that can prevent this psychologically devastating outcome from 
coming to fruition. Here, I give my definitive ranking, from 
worst to best, of every MLB team in the Golden State. 
Note: Each team’s 2015 win-loss record, division standing and 
playoff results,  if applicable,  are listed in parentheses after its name.
5. San Diego Padres (74–88; fourth place in NL West)
The Padres went all-in in 2015 by trading high-end minor 
league prospects for high-ceiling major league veterans — 
outfielder Justin Upton and closer Craig Kimbrel among them. 
It was obvious to some at the time of these acquisitions that the 
team acted on impulse rather than on strategy and shafted long-
term promise in favor of short-term ticket sales. Unfortunately, 
the team’s front office had to experience this to learn it, wasting 
its top prospects and millions of dollars only to finish with three 
fewer wins than it had the year prior. In the offseason, the team 
let many of these acquisitions go and opted to replace them with 
mere stopgaps like Jon Jay and Fernando Rodney until they have 
the resources to build a competitive roster. Until then, UCSD 
students will have to rely on their own athletics to find a good 
baseball team to root for. 
4. Oakland Athletics (68–94; fifth place in AL West)
Being an A ’s fan, as much as I would like to put the Athletics 
over the Angels, making up a 17-win differential in just one 
season is wishful thinking. Even harder is to, in that short time, 
grow from zero to hero, loser to winner. From the teams on 
this list, the Athletics were by far the worst team last season. 
However, they’ve made significant strides toward returning 
to their 2013 to 2015 glory. Shoring up one of the league’s 
worst bullpens is no easy task, but Billy Beane did just that 
by acquiring comeback kid Ryan Madson, late bloomer Liam Hendriks and former dominating closer John Axford. They also 
added left-fielder Khris Davis and reacquired converted second-
baseman Jed Lowrie to supplement a lineup that, a year ago, 
lacked punch and consistency. The team hopes this will allow 
them to, at the very least, compete again, but they’ll likely have 
to settle for steady improvement. 
3. Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim (85–77; 3rd place in AL West)
The Angels were on the brink of clinching a wildcard spot in 
the playoffs last year, due in large part to their one-two combo 
of Mike Trout and Albert Pujols, but they lost out to the Astros 
on the very last day of the season. One would think then that 
the team would have pushed hard this offseason to get itself past 
the threshold of “just not good enough. ” However, they instead 
opted to rely on mostly minor upgrades, if even that, to get 
them to this year’s Fall Classic. Their acquisition of shortstop 
Andrelton Simmons — one of the best defensive players in the 
game — might nab them a few extra wins, but overall, they’re 
likely looking at another third-place finish in the AL West.
2. Los Angeles Dodgers (92–70; first place in NL West, 
eliminated in NLDS by New York Mets)
It’s only fitting that this list comes down to one of the most 
intense rivalries in California and probably in all of sports. 
While the Dodgers and Giants have, in recent years, see-sawed 
to determine who comes out on top — with L.A. winning the 
most recent season by seven games — the reigning NL West 
champions aren’t looking as robust as they were last year. The 
loss of their secondary, or arguably primary, ace Zack Greinke to 
the division-rival Arizona Diamondbacks and a myriad of other 
significant contributors to the ever so infamous disabled list will 
certainly hurt the team’s playoff prospects. Though Scott Kazmir, 
one of the Dodgers’ few offseason acquisitions, looks to stop 
some of the bleeding, he can only do so much to offset injuries 
to five of the team’s starting pitchers — literally, a whole major 
league rotation. Ultimately, it looks like Los Angeles will have to 
sit through another year of spending the most money in baseball 
only to take second place to the Giants, both in their division 
and on this list.
1. San Francisco Giants (84–78; second place in NL West)
The Giants, over the last five years, have been one of the 
most interesting phenomenons in sports. After a post-Barry Bonds playoff drought of six years between 2004 and 2009, the 
team came back in a big way by winning the 2010 World Series 
with a majorly underdog team. Since then, they’ve alternated 
between missing the playoffs completely in odd-numbered 
years (2011 and 2013) and winning the whole shebang again 
in even-numbered ones (2012 and 2014). Well it’s now 2016, 
and as much as I would like to call the past few championships 
flukes, history has tended to repeat itself and the top-to-bottom 
strength of this year’s team doesn’t hurt their chances. With 
an incredibly balanced lineup that relies on consistency over 
punch and a pitching staff bulked by the additions of potential 
aces Johnny Cueto and Jeff Samardzija — as well as a team full 
of three-time World Series champions — the most inconsistent 
dynasty in sports might strike gold once again.
MLB Season Preview: Which Baseball Team Rules California?
With the season now in motion, we are offering our definitive ranking of all five MLB teams that reside in the glorious Golden State.
BY   j a c ky  t o
contributing writer
readers can contact
jacky to    j6to@ucsd.edu CONTACT THE EDITORS
MARCUS THUILLIER & DEV JAIN
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , APRIL 4, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
week  in
summar y
  MEN'S TENNISWOMEN'S  
TRACK &  FIELDMEN'S  
TRACK &  FIELD
  WOMEN'S TENNISUCSDUCSDUCSD
UCSDAzusa Pacific 
Azusa Pacific 3 – 62nd place1st place
5 – 0
MEN'S
VOLLEYBALL
25 26 25
323 24 16
0California Baptist
USCUCSD
UCSD
On Saturday, the UCSD men’s and 
women’s track and field teams hosted 
the California Collegiate Invitational 
and concluded the day with strong performance 
results. The men’s team ran away with first in the 
meet, earning its second win of the year, while 
the women’s team took the runner-up position.   
With a total of 177 points, the Triton men 
grabbed first at the invitational, followed by 
Azusa Pacific University (122), University of 
Southern California (93), Williams College (83) 
and Cal State San Marcos (65). In the women’s 
competition, San Diego State University took 
home the victory with 178.5 points, while UCSD 
followed with 140 points, USC with 92.5, Azusa 
Pacific with 70.5 and Williams with 65.5.
Standout performer and senior distance 
runner Paige Hughes, competed in the 5000m 
and came out victorious, setting a new school 
record time of 16:57.30. Previously, Audrey Sung 
held the school record with a time of 17:00.26, 
which lasted for an incredible 13 years.  
“Feels really good, ” Hughes told the UCSD 
Athletics Department. “Usually around 17 flat 
goes to nationals, so school-record and possibly 
going to nationals was kind of my goal today, so 
it feels pretty good to actually do it. ”
The 4x100 relay had UCSD written all over 
it, as both the men and the women came out on 
top in the event. Senior Amy Heins, sophomore 
Mandy Che, junior Marisa Padilla and redshirt 
senior Ellexi Snover made the Triton women’s 
relay team, an experienced group, and posted a time of 48.23 to take the victory. The men’s relay 
team — freshman Andrew Dirks, sophomore 
Justin Hunter, junior Emmanuel Elijah and 
sophomore Paul Doan — ran 41.48.
As the women’s 4x400 relay event was coming 
to the final 400m, UCSD was in second behind 
USC, but Snover anchored the race and blew 
past the competition into first and earned the 
victory for the team with a season-best time of 
3:48.93.
As well as dominating the relay events, 
the Tritons controlled the men’s triple jump 
as they took the top three spots, first going to 
sophomore Matt Bowen (48’3.25”), followed by 
junior Khalil Flemister (47’5”) and senior Sean 
Cook (45’10.75”).
UCSD also dominated the high jump event, 
as Savanna Forry took first in the women’s 
competition, clearing 5’6” . While on the men’s 
side, sophomore Raymond Silver took first with a 
clearance of 6’7” . Triton teammates sophomore Luis 
Carson, sophomore Brett Molster and Cook all 
posted the second-best clearance of the event, 6’5” .Sophomore Skylar Thiel took first in the 
women’s 10,000m with a time of 38:17.08, 
earning her the 10th best time of all-time. 
Tritons, senior distance runner Scott Acton and 
junior distance runner Brendan Gee faced off 
in the men’s 10,000m, with Acton (31:41.74) 
crossing the finish line 10 seconds before Gee 
(31:51.13) to take first.
Although there was no Triton first-place 
winner in the men’s javelin, senior Anthony 
Capitulo did earn second with a throwing 
distance of 209’6” and senior Travis Vandegriff 
came in third with a personal-best of 194’7” . 
Both Tritons are provisional qualifiers.
Sophomore distance runner Nick Famolaro 
placed third in the 800m race with a time of 
1.55.13, sophomore Meghan Fletcher took 
second in the 400m hurdles in 1:03.90 and 
sophomore Mason Falahat placed third in the 
shot put competition, with a seasonal best 
47’3.75.Men Win Invitational
Triton women finish in second place as Paige Hughes sets 
a new school record
Written by Daniel Hernandez // Sports Editor
Photo by Megan Lee // Associate Photo Editor  daniel hernandez   dah043@ucsd.edu
Both UCSD men’s and women’s 
tennis teams played the Azusa Pacific 
Cougars this past week in matchups 
with major implications for the 
postseason. No. 17 UCSD lost to 
No. 18 APU on the men’s side, while 
No. 22 UCSD took an option on the 
postseason by upsetting No. 14 APU 
for the women. The men’s team now 
stands at 12–7, good for second in 
the region, while the women’s team is 
11–9 and fourth in the region.
Men’s Tennis
On Friday, the men’s tennis 
team lost 6–3 against Azusa Pacific. 
The teams split the series as UCSD 
defeated APU in Azusa 5–4 on 
February 6.
Junior Alexandre Miaule and 
senior Horea Porutiu provided 
UCSD with their only point in the 
doubles at the one spot when they 
won 8–6, bringing their record to 14–3 with their six-straight win as 
a team. In the two other doubles, 
freshman Rodrigo Amaral and 
sophomore Justin Zhang lost to Pascal 
Engel and Alan Leahy of APU, 8–4, 
while freshman Richard Han and 
sophomore Eric Tseng lost at the three 
spot on the same score.
In the singles, despite victories by 
Miaule at the three spot and Porutiu 
at the five spot, APU was too much 
too handle for the Tritons.
Sophomore Eric Tseng was 
defeated by Jan Meyer, the No. 
2 player in the nation at the one 
spot, 6–1, 7–6. Zhang, Amaral and 
freshman Riku Hashiyada all lost in 
straight sets in the at the two spot, 
the four spot and the sixth spot 
respectively. 
Women’s Tennis
Also on Friday, the women’s team 
garnered a huge upset win over no. 
14 APU in a West Region matchup at 
Northview Courts. With the win, the 
Tritons earned a season series split 
against their rivals, after a 5–4 loss earlier in the year.
The matchup did not even have to 
come to conclusion as UCSD raced to 
a 5–0 advantage to clinch the win. 
In the doubles matches, all three 
pairs of Tritons won their game 
handily, 8–3.
No. 25 sophomore Britta Mosser 
and senior Kyra Scott took care of 
business in the one spot, defeating 
Kara Hinton and Natalie Johnson. 
At the two spot, freshman Ashley 
Chao and junior Shannon Theisen 
vanquished Lisa Schneider and Lilit 
Vardanyan while freshmen Madison 
Hale and Alexandra Weil triumphed 
over Valeriia Kashina and Jackie 
Resler at the three spot.
The Tritons won the first two 
singles to clinch the win. Chao 
dominated Vardanyan, 6–2, 6–1 at 
the four spot. She was followed by 
sophomore Jasmine Hosseini who 
clinched with a 6–2, 6–3 win over 
Hinton at the three spots. In the other 
single matches, No. 31 Scott was up 
one set to zero over No. 18 Johnson and Hale also had a one set advantage 
in the sixth spot. Both Weil and 
Mosser were down a set when the 
games were interrupted. 
UCSD plays its future and its place 
in the postseason this upcoming 
week. The women’s team hosts No. 37 
Point Loma on April 6 at 2 p.m, with a win likely clinching a postseason 
berth. The men’s team will be on the 
road to play the No. 29 PLNU Sea 
Lions on April 9 at 10:30 a.m.TENNIS
Women’s Tennis Upend No.14 APU
Triton men fall 6–3 against APU at home but defeat Cougars in Azusa 5–4.
marcus thuillier   BY  m a r c u s  t h u i l l i e r
PHOTO BY DUYEN NGUYEN/ GUARDIANUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESW. Tennis
Softball
M.Volleyball
M. Tennis
BaseballVS Point Loma
AT San Francisco State
VS Long Beach State
VS Point Loma
VS Sonoma State4/6
4/8
4/1
4/9
4/9