VOLUME 50, ISSUE 7   THURSDA Y , OCTOBER 13, 2016  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
STUDENT SELF 
CARE
ALREADY OVERWHELMED 
AND IN NEED OF A BREAK 
FROM THE ONSLAUGHT OF 
MIDTERMS, PAPERS AND LABS? 
READ ON FOR LIFESTYLE TIPS, 
TRICKS AND THOUGHTS ABOUT 
STUDENT SELF CARE.
UCSD   LA W SUITS
WINNING  STREAKLack  of  Due  Process
W. SOCCER  WINS  SIXTH  GAME Opinion,  P age   4
SPORTS,  P age  12
FORECAST
VERBATIM
“HATE SPEEC H IS NO LESS 
HATEFUL  WHEN IT IS WRIT-
TEN ON THE GROUND  IN 
FRONT  OF A BUILDING  
INSTEAD  OF ON THE BUILD -
ING ITSELF , REGARDLESS  OF 
WHETHER IT IS PERMANENT  
OR NOT.”
- Editorial Board
Napolitano’s Take on Free 
Speech
OPINION , PAGE  5
INSIDE
TRIUMPHANT  .................. 2
FREE SPEECH  ................. 4
DANNY BROWN  ............... 9
SUDOKU  ....................... 10
W. VOLLEYBALL  ............ 12weekend,  P AGE 8
ILLUSTRATION BY SAM XU / GUARDIAN
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
Several adult film performers, 
including Tasha Reign, visited 
campus on Monday afternoon to 
hand out pamphlets and advocate 
against Proposition 60 to students, 
staff and faculty. Prop 60, which will 
appear on the ballot this November, 
seeks to require the use of condoms 
and other protective barriers in 
pornographic films. 
The official, shorter summary 
of the initiative states that the 
proposition requires adult film actors 
to use condoms while filming sexual 
intercourse; producers to pay for 
performers’ vaccinations, tests, and 
medical examinations; and producers 
to post the condom requirement at 
filming locations. Additionally, the expected fiscal impact is an annual 
loss of several million dollars in state 
and local tax revenues and increased 
state spending of over $1 million on 
regulation.
Mia Li, adult film performer 
and YouTuber, explained to 
the UCSD Guardian that she is 
against Proposition 60 because the 
enforcement of the measure could 
expose her and other performers to 
lawsuits, even if there is no evidence 
the law was violated.
“Any California resident, 
performer or body of the state can 
enforce this proposition, and that 
enforcement is a form of lawsuit 
against performers [...] so people can 
actually make money off of suing 
performers, ” Li said. “[...] it can be a 
frame of just people kissing, where 
the genital penetration is not seen, and that is grounds for a lawsuit, 
when they could actually be using the 
barrier protection. ”
However, the Yes on Prop 60 
campaign, lead by President of the 
AIDS Health Foundation Michael 
Weinstein, states that the initiative 
specifically prevents adult film 
performers from being sued in 
subsection five of section four, which 
reads “liability under this Act shall not 
apply to adult film performers, bona-
fide employees, individuals providing 
independent contracting services or 
production volunteers of an adult 
film producer who are acting within 
the scope of the general services 
being provided and in accordance 
with the instruction of the adult film 
producer… ” Supporters of Prop 60 
additionally state that the initiative UC Berkeley 
Alumnus to               
Launch New 
KickstarterUC SYSTEM
SimpleWater will use the 
funds to develop technology 
that allows them to produce 
clean drinking water.
BY   P r o m i t a   N a n dy
staff Writer
SimpleWater, a startup created 
by UC Berkeley alumnus John Pujol 
and Susan Amrose, will be launching 
a Kickstarter campaign in 2017 to 
help raise funds to extend its services 
and improve its technology in order 
to provide people with access to 
cleaner and safer drinking water.
Millions of Americans drink 
water drawn from private wells that 
are not monitored for safe levels 
of toxic chemicals. SimpleWater 
provides a way for customers to find 
out what chemicals are in their water 
and how to make their water safer 
with personalized reports. 
Pujol started the company after 
travelling to Asia to help remove 
harmful pollutants, such as arsenic, 
from the water supplies in several 
Indian and Bangladeshi cities. 
According to the World Health 
Organization, as many as 60 percent 
of residents in Bangladesh are at risk 
of drinking water contaminated with 
arsenic. There have also been several 
cases of arsenic poisoning reported 
in West Bengal, India. Pujol and his 
team travelled to these countries 
looking for a cost-efficient way to 
identify and remove arsenic from 
groundwater.
“ Arsenic is a very, very potent 
carcinogen that is prevalent in the 
groundwater in Bangladesh and the 
west of India, ” Pujol told the UCSD 
Guardian. “This is a big issue for 
communities that don’t have a lot of 
money, and arsenic unfortunately is 
one of the most expensive things to 
remove from groundwater supplies. ”
In conjunction with other 
agencies, Pujol and his team 
developed a cheaper way to 
successfully remove arsenic and other 
heavy metals from groundwater in 
India and Bangladesh. 
“The plan is working quite 
well, ” Pujol explained. “We are now 
actually at a very meaningful scale 
of about 10,000 liters [of water] a day 
right now in a site near Calcutta. ”
Following his work in India, Pujol 
and Amrose founded SimpleWater in 
2014 after receiving a grant from the 
EPA to attempt commercialization 
of their technology in the U.S.
In order to find out more about 
the quality of their drinking water, 
customers can send a sample of 
their tap water to a lab using one 
of SimpleWater’s kits. In return, 
they will get a report describing the UCSD Reduces Number of  S 
Parking Spots on Campus
Transportation Services turned 32 S 
parking spaces in Revelle College’s P102 
lot into B parking spaces the week before 
the academic year began.
Associate Director of Transportation 
Services Todd Berven told the UCSD Guardian 
that  Revelle has seen a net gain due to the 
creation of additional S spaces in the that area 
of campus.
“With the addition of approximately 70 S 
spaces along Expedition Way, the loss of the 32 
S spaces in P102 still leaves a net gain of S spaces 
in the same general area, ” Berven pointed out. 
Transportation Services did not notify 
students beforehand because, according to 
Berven, a loss of 32 spaces in one lot was not seen as a major change within the context of the 
total loss occurring across the UCSD campus.
“Considering the loss of A, B and S spaces 
that has occurred across campus, this was seen 
as a small change, ” Berven told the Guardian. 
Berven also noted that the parking situation 
will only worsen in the next month and that 
Transportation Services continues to look for 
ways to improve the parking on campus.
“There will be 900 S spaces lost in the 
coming month due to construction on the Mid-
Coast Trolley Extension, ” Berven said. “It is 
due to ongoing construction and its impact on 
parking that we continue to look for a variety of 
ways to improve parking, such as the first-year 
student parking restrictions that went into effect B y Maria Sebas    news editor HAUNTED HOEDOWN
Adult Film Actresses Visit UCSD to Discuss Proposition 60
If passed, the proposition will require pornographic actors to wear condoms during filming.See PARKING , page 2
LIBRARY WALK
By  L a u r e n  h o l t
Associate news editor
See WATER , page 2 See PROP 60  page 2 CAMPUS
 This past Saturday, students participated in this year’s country-style Haunted Hoedown which is part of the four weekend-
long Triton Fest. Photo by Christian Duarte//UCSD Guardianwill be beneficial to adult film 
performers because it will prevent 
them from acquiring diseases while 
on the job and protect their health.
Hernando Chaves, a professor 
and therapist who accompanied the 
actresses, clarified that because many 
performers are also producers, they 
can still be sued as producers.
“Many performers do content 
trade with other performers, create 
content for their websites for sale, 
utilize cam shows and charge viewers, 
make income from affiliate programs 
and a host of other ways they have a financial stake and engage in 
production/producer roles, ” Chavez 
told the Guardian. “Most performers 
produce content, hence are producers 
for themselves. Unfortunately, the 
language in the proposition assumes 
there is a clear separation between 
producer and performer, when in fact, 
they overlap for the overwhelming 
number of performers. ” 
Li also noted that the use 
of condoms is not an issue in the 
pornographic film industry to begin 
with, as the industry is largely self-
regulating and has been collaborating 
with the California Division of 
Occupational Safety and Health.“We have protocols, testing and 
the option to be autonomous over our 
sexual health; we are not anti-condom 
at all, ” Li stated. “We are pro-option, 
which this proposition will take away 
because we are the people who have 
the most intimate knowledge about 
how our bodies work, what is good 
for us and what is safe for us. We are 
currently working with Cal/OSHA 
to have our regulations that we have 
created ourselves beyond paper, and 
this completely overrides the work 
that we’ve been doing. ” 
According to Li, she and other 
adult film performers have traveled 
to several other universities to speak with students because they believe 
the students will be more receptive to 
listening to their information.
“We think that this generation is 
more open-minded, sex-positive and 
willing to hear because we know that 
there is so much stigma attached to 
the industry and sex work and adult 
film, and I think this generation that 
is here in a place of learning is more 
willing to educate themselves and 
also hear the voices of the people in 
the industry, ” Li said. contents of their water and how to 
get rid of potential contaminants if 
they are present.
Pujol discovered that about 
one to five percent of California 
residents who were part of the initial 
trial of SimpleWater were unaware 
that they had water pollution 
problems because their water was 
never tested. SimpleWater provides 
these consumers with a way to 
diagnose these problems as well as 
fix them. The reports are intended 
to be consumer and budget friendly 
so that anyone can understand and 
apply them. 
In order to provide accurate 
information, Pujol and his colleagues 
study the toxicology reports released 
by the federal and state governments and keep a record of the potential 
side effects of the chemicals.
“We figure out what we actually 
know, ” Pujol explained. “This is a 
carcinogen proven in rats and likely 
in humans. This is a neurotoxin, 
proven in women who are pregnant. ” 
The company then creates reports 
to relay the information that it finds 
to customers. SimpleWater’s labs and 
water kits have already proven to 
reduce cost.
“We’re providing tests at 50 
percent of the cost of any other 
lab and we’re also providing 
unprecedented ease for water testing 
and we’re able to do that because we 
buy lots of water tests, ” Pujol said.earlier this year.
Berven further explained that 
most of the 900 S spaces come 
from the P702 and P705 lots on 
East Campus and Transportation 
Services does not believe that this 
will have as severe of an impact 
as it could have if they had not 
implemented the freshman parking 
restriction. 
“Neither lot is fully used right 
now, and with the freshmen 
restriction in place, we do not expect 
this to be quite as huge an impact on 
students as it could have been if the 
freshmen restriction were not in 
place, ” Berven said.
Associated Students Off-
Campus Senator Azze Ngo said 
that she foresees rising frustration and encourages students to 
take advantage of alternative 
transportation methods.
“I anticipate it to be a very 
frustrating time for everyone as 
more residence halls are built to 
accommodate the growing student 
population, and construction of the rail 
continues, ” Ngo told the Guardian. “I 
encourage everyone to take advantage 
of alternative transportation methods 
as those involved are working to find 
solutions to this issue. ”
The construction, which began 
on Jan. 18, will ultimately connect 
Gilman Drive and Medical Center 
Drive and add an I-5 access ramp off 
of Voigt Drive and is expected to reach 
completion by Fall Quarter 2017.2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 13, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
TRIUMPHANT By Alex Liang
eataburrito.comDON CARLOS
 TACO SHOP
737 Pearl Street, La Jolla
AVAILABLE ON 
$5 off your
first order, use code eats - 4ilgd
DO YOU TWEET? WE DO!
@UCSDGua rdian
.com/ucsdguardianThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian 
is not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or 
art. The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent 
the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of 
California or Associated Students. Where’s Maria?The UCSD 
Guardian is funded by advertising. joselynn got marked by 
the devil...twice!
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Caroline Lee
Marketing Director
Peter McInnis
Training and Development Manager
Allison Kubo
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Tina Butoiu
Jacky To
Marcus Thuillier
Maria Sebas
Lauren Holt
Quinn Pieper
Dev Jain
Oliver Kelton
Sam Velazquez
Naftali Burakovsky
Brittney Lu
Christian Duarte
Joselynn Ordaz
Aleya Zenieris
Kenji Bennett
Ayat Amin
Christina Carlson
Sophia Huang
Sage Schubert ChristianEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
 
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Multimedia Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editors
Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Aleya Zenieris, Quinn Pieper
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim, Alicia Ho, Lisa Chik
Editorial Assistants
Nathaniel Walker, Lisa Chik, Alex Wu, Miguel Sheker▶ PARKING,  from page 1 ▶ WATER,  from page 1
▶ PROP 60,  from page 1Ngo: UCSD is Working on Tranporation Solutions Some Residents Unaware of  Water Pollution
Porn Actresses Target Universities Because Students Tend to be More Receptive to Their IndustryMaria  sebas    msebas@ucsd.edu Lauren Hol t   lcholt@ucsd.edu
Promit a  nand y   pnandy@ucsd.eduCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 13, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 10, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
MIVOS QUARTET
CONRAD PREBYS CONCERT HALLTahrirWEEKTHISat UC SAN DIEGO
OCT 10 - OCT 162016POWERED BY THE 
STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER
AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
MON 10.10 WED10.12WED10.12  • 7pm
THU10.13
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guardian
Calenda r
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdg uardian.orgTUE10.11
FRI10.146pm
MEET THE FIRMS ACCOUNTING 
NETWORKING NIGHT - PRICE 
CENTER BALLROOM EAST
Hosted by UC San Diego's Career Services Center, 
Alumni and Community Engagement, Rady 
School of Management, Department of Economics 
and the Undergraduate Accounting Society, Meet 
the Firms is the premier networking event of the 
accounting recruiting season.
7pm
JAZZ INITIATIVE PRESENTS KRIS 
DAVIS AND CRAIG TABORN - 
CONRAD PREBYS CONCERT HALL
UC San Diego's Jazz Initiative presents the piano 
duo Kris Davis and Craig Taborn. Kris Davis and 
Craig Taborn will perform together during an 
evening of original compositions and 
improvisations. Tickets. GA: $15.50, UC San 
Diego faculty, staff, Friends of Music and alumni: 
$10.50, students w/ ID: free. Contact: 
mroos@ucsd.edu5am
BRITAIN'S GRAND EXIT: WHAT 
BREXIT MEANS FOR THE EU AND 
THE WORLD - THE GREAT HALL 
AT I-HOUSE
You've seen the headlines all summer, but how 
much do we really understand? Professor 
Michael Parrish (History, UCSD) and Professor 
Kaare Strom (Political Science, UCSD) will 
answer all your questions about this 
monumental referendum, as well as offer a 
special preview of their Summer 2017 Global 
Seminars! Contact: ihousemarketing@ucsd.ed
7:30am
ECONOMICS ROUNDTABLE 
FEATURING NARAYANA 
KOCHERLAKOTA - FACULTY 
CLUB
Is there hope for better performance of the U.S. 
economy, and should we expect more from U.S. 
policy? Narayana Kocherlakota is uniquely 
qualified to address these questions, having 
come from a distinguished academic career to 
play a key role in policy decisions during 
2009-2015 as President of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Minneapolis. He is currently the 
inaugural Lionel W. McKenzie Professor of 
Economics at the University of Rochester, and 
has previously taught at Stanford and 
Northwestern. He is a Fellow of the Econometric 
Society and has published over fifty scholarly 
articles in economics. Kocherlakota received his 
PhD in economics from the University of 
Chicago and his A.B. in mathematics from 
Princeton University. Contact: 
econroundtable@ucsd.edu
5pm
STUDY ABROAD: UNITED 
KINGDOM, IRELAND - STUDY 
ABROAD OFFICE
Overview of study abroad programs in the UK 
and Ireland. Contact: jminert@ucsd.edu
5pm
YOGA ON THE BEACH - MEET AT 
REVELLE FOUNTAIN 
Come and learn about studying abroad as an 
Economics/Business major. Contact: 
jminert@ucsd.edu
6pm
UCSD MEN'S WATER POLO V.S. 
LONG BEACH STATE - 
CANYONVIEW AQUATIC CENTER
Come out and watch your UCSD Men's Water 
Polo team battle against Long Beach State! 
Contact: tritonfrontdesk@ucsd.edu
7pm
MUIR MUSICAL INFO SESSION - 
MARIPOSA ROOM
Are you interested in musical theatre on 
campus? Muir Musical is a student 
organization that produces a Broadway-scale 
production each year, made up entirely of 
Tritons from all 6 UCSD colleges. This year, Muir 
Musical Ensemble is excited to produce "Spring 
Awakening," a coming-of-age rock musical set 
in 19th century Germany. Whether you are eager 
to perform onstage, work behind the scenes, or 
play in the orchestra pit, Muir Musical invites 
you to join us at an information session to learn 
more about how you can get involved. Contact: 
Info@muirmusical.org2pm
FALL QUARTER TOWN HALL - 
PC EAST BALLROOM
Are you a Commuter, Transfer Student or both? 
Come get free food and participate in a Q & A 
portion with various campus resources and learn 
more about how you can get involved with 
Commuter/Transfer issues and opportunities. 
Contact: ucsdaccb@gmail.com
5pm
TRANSFERS ABROAD INFO 
SESSION - VILLAGE WEST 
BUILDING 2, CONFERENCE 
ROOMS 2B-2C
Are you a Transfer Student who wants to study 
abroad? You can do it! Check out this information 
session to find out how! Contact: 
jminert@ucsd.edu
5pm
STUDY ABROAD: SOUTHERN 
AND EASTERN EUROPE - STUDY 
ABROAD OFFIC
Learn about study abroad programs in Spain, 
Italy, Czech Republic, Russia. Contact: 
jminert@ucsd.edu
6pm
THE WAY WE TALK: A 
DOCUMENTARY ON 
STUTTERING | Q&A WITH 
DIRECTOR - ATKSINSON HALL
The Linguistics Department presents a screening 
of "The Way We Talk," a documentary on 
stuttering, followed by a Q&A with the director 
Michael Turner, Ryan Turner, a UC San Diego 
math major and the director's brother, Prof. Jesse 
Harris (UCLA, Linguistics), and other people who 
stutter from the San Diego Chapter of the 
National Stuttering Association. The event is free 
and open to the public. Contact: 
ivano@ucsd.eduAPPLY TO BE A LIFE COURSE 
SCHOLAR! - ONLINE
Are you interested in a meaningful learning 
experience that takes place both inside the 
classroom, and within San Diego neighborhoods? 
Are you curious about the impact of our social, 
physical, built and policy environments on health 
and well being across the life course? Would you 
like to connect and collaborate with diverse elders 
in order to create a more equitable, 
compassionate world for all? If so, consider 
applying to the 2016-17 Life Course Scholar 
Program! Fill out the application here: 
goo.gl/forms/yqr8VUhEfH7uM9173. Contact: 
lrlewis@ucsd.edu
12pm
INTERNATIONAL FRIDAY CAFE - 
GREAT HALL
Each Friday of the academic year, the 
International Center hosts the Friday Cafe where 
the culture and cuisine of a different country is 
featured each week. Meet people from around the 
world, enjoy international music, and explore 
world cultures all while enjoying a delicious meal 
from countries around the world. All students, 
staff, faculty, and community members are 
welcome!
1pm
IMPLICATIONS OF 
ANTHROPOGENY FOR MEDICINE 
AND HEALTH - MANDEVILLE 
AUDITORIUM
Experts will discuss the application of 
evolutionary biology, in the context of human 
origins, to the prevention and treatment of various 
illnesses and diseases, such as obesity and other 
metabolic diseases, sleep disorders, problems 
associated with reproductive health, and 
disorders resulting from inappropriate immune 
responses. In addition to our scholarly experts, 
award-winning rap artist and playwright, Baba 
Brinkman, will take the stage to perform select 
songs from his The Rap Guide to Medicine album. 
Free admission but online registration is required.
4:30pm
UCSD WOMEN'S SOCCER V.S. CAL 
STATE LA - TRITON SOCCER 
STADIUM
Come out and support your UCSD Women's Soccer 
team as they face off against Cal State LA! 
Contact: tritonfrontdesk@ucsd.eduSAT10.15
2pm
WALK THE BLOCK PARTY 5K AND 
CELEBRATION - LIBRARY WALK 
AND WARREN MALL
Dance, walk, run and get free swag! Do you like 
helping other students while you're having a great 
time? Walk the Block is only 3 miles, finishing 
with an amazing party including entertainment, 
food and games. The event benefits the Triton 
Food Pantry, so you'll be helping other students 
while having an awesome Saturday afternoon, see 
you there! Contact: mpowell@ucsd.edu
5pm
UCSD MEN'S WATER POLO V.S. 
CALIFORNIA BAPTIST - 
CANYONVIEW AQUATIC CENTER
Come out and watch your UCSD Men's Water Polo 
team battle against California Baptist!
4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 13, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
QUINN PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Tina Butoiu
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Marcus Thuiller
MANAGING EDITOR
Jacky To
MANAGING EDITOR  
Quinn Pieper
OPINION EDITOR
Maria Sebas
NEWS EDITOR
Lauren Holt
ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITOR
Oliver Kelton
FEATURES EDITOR
Sam Velasquez
ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT EDITOR
Nathan Walker
OPINION EDITORIAL ASSISTANT
Dev Jain
SPORTS EDITOREDITORIAL  BOARD
The UCSD Guardian is published twice a week at the 
University of California at San Diego. Contents © 
2015. Views expressed herein represent the majority 
vote of the editorial board and are not necessarily those 
of the UC Board of Regents, the ASUCSD or the 
members of the Guardian staff. Over the past couple of years, 
UCSD has been the subject of 
several court battles wherein its 
adherence to due process has been 
questioned by California’s legal 
system. Most recently, a California 
State Appeals Court ruled that 
Jonathan Dorfman, a former UCSD 
student, was denied due process 
because UCSD officials declined to 
identify — let alone get a testimony 
from — Student X, the student 
whose test Dorfman allegedly 
copied. Rather than spending 
hundreds of thousands of dollars 
on court cases that result in outside 
courts intervening, parties like 
UC Regents must invest in legal 
services that ensure due process 
and provide fair trials, for the sake 
of our university’s funding and our 
students’ futures.
The recent clearing of Jonathan 
Dorfman, who found himself at 
the center of a five-year-long series 
of cases after being accused of 
cheating on an exam and expelled, 
serves as the most recent breach 
in students’ right to due process 
at the hands of the Regents. In the 
first case, Dorfman was thought 
to have cheated because his 
answers’ resemblance to those of 
another student’s was statistically 
improbable. The issues with the 
charges, however, lay in the case’s 
rife legal ambiguity. Key in this type of case would and should have been 
a testimony from the student off of 
whom Dorfman allegedly cheated.  
The UCSD Policy on Integrity of 
Scholarship states, “The Instructor 
and the Student shall have the 
right to present Relevant Parties 
and question all Relevant Parties 
present at the [Academic Integrity 
Review]. ” However, according 
to Robert Ottilie, Dorfman’s 
attorney, the university deemed 
the witness irrelevant to the case. 
It is still unknown whether or not 
the university even contacted 
Student X. Yet, since there was 
no seating chart, the only way to 
demonstrate that Dorfman did 
not cheat would have been to question the Student X.
If the inconsistencies in 
Dorfman’s seem familiar, they are. 
UCSD also found itself at the 
center of national attention when 
a student, John Doe, initially 
suspended after sexual assault 
allegations, fought back and won. 
Doe was suspended for one quarter 
after another student, Jane Roe, 
accused him of sexual assault and 
a Student Conduct Review Panel 
found him guilty. When Doe 
appealed the decision, university 
provosts extended his suspension to 
a total of five quarters. However, at 
the center of the case’s contention 
was a lack of due process on behalf 
of UCSD. According to the court ruling, university officials limited 
Doe’s ability to challenge his 
accuser, allowing him to ask only 
nine out of the 32 questions he 
submitted for cross-examination. 
According to the LA Times, the 
evidence backing the university’s 
claims was also deemed insufficient 
in the Superior Court. 
Issues in the Regents’ cases being 
what they are, the larger issue at 
hand is that failing to be transparent 
and to ensure students’ legal rights 
are respected comes with a price. 
And the price is steep.
According to Robert Ottilie, 
Dorfman’s attorney, the University 
of California spent $300,000 
on the five-year case. Even 
worse, it could be forced to 
pay Dorfman’s $200,000 court 
fees. Given the UC system’s 
2014 budget of $100.48 million 
devoted to Outside Counsel 
Expenses, cases like Dorfman’s 
should raise concern. As with any 
area in which the university is 
spending large amounts of money, 
there is a responsibility and an 
accountability that the Regents 
must have. When students’ 
academic standings and future 
are jeopardized by preventable 
carelessness on the side of Regents 
— and when millions of public 
education funding are at stake — 
there is no room for error.PHOTO B Y CHRISTIAN DUARTE 
With millions of dollars at stake in legal battles, the University of California cannot afford for its 
Regents to misstep in court. An appellate court’s clearing of  Jonathan Dorfman, a former UCSD 
student expelled for cheating allegations based on evidence a judge has now deemed insufficient, 
shows yet again that the university cannot be relied upon to grant due process to students.
Issues in the Regents’ cases 
being what they are, the larger 
issue at hand is that failing to 
be transparent and to ensure 
students’ legal rights are 
respected comes with a price. 
And the price is steep.
“
“
“
“
Enemies of 
the Court: 
When Due 
Process 
is OverdueOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 13, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
FALL 2016
M: 9am-1pm
TuTh: 11am-3pm
W: 10am-2pm
F: 9am-2pmAT THE ORIGINAL STUDENT CENTERHOURS
LIKE US ON
 FACEBOOK
facebook.com/ucsdguardianIn an Op-Ed published not by a 
UC publication, like The Daily Cal 
or the UCSD Guardian, but in the 
Boston Globe, UC President Janet 
Napolitano takes a very patronizing 
approach to an issue that concerns 
students and not necessarily her, 
despite her position as supreme leader 
of the UC system. Now, just like 
many baby boomers, she laments the 
state of free speech on college. 
Problem is, her Op-Ed is full of 
flaws and inconsistencies that 
make it easy for us to debunk. 
Everything she writes is not 
wrong, of course. She is correct 
in pointing out that the UC 
system had a wind of fresh air 
and political involvement in the 
1960’s. Berkeley was a beacon 
of free speech, catalyzing 
what many in the nation were 
thinking. She is also right to 
point out that a college campus 
is supposed to evolve and 
educate people to prepare them 
for the often-hard realities of 
life, not shield them from it. 
The final correct argument she 
offers is the one describing student 
centers as a good safe space. 
It all goes downhill from there, 
starting with Napolitano’s claims 
that students are wrong to denounce 
the appearance of a public speaker, 
which do not not hold up because 
in the following paragraph, she 
acknowledges that all speech is not 
acceptable either. Her error here is 
that she depicts herself as the sole 
arbiter who can decide for the student body which speaker is acceptable and 
which is not. But it gets worse. After a 
quick jab at the press, which “vilifies 
trigger warnings” , Napolitano brings 
her claims close to home: speech in 
any hurtful form is the new bete noire 
of the academy. 
That is not okay. 
Napolitano’s argument is as 
such: If 50 years ago, students were 
not being crybabies about free 
speech on campuses, then students 
should not be now. What she fails 
to acknowledge and realize in her 
piece is that the times have changed. 
50 years ago, the Civil Rights Act of 
1964 had just been enacted, Harvey 
Milk was ten years removed from 
being elected into office and the 
Immigration and Naturalization Act 
had barely passed in 1965. Offensive 
speech back then did not directly 
affect people because they were neither represented on campuses 
nor protected by the law. Now, these 
speeches hurt those same people, 
members of underrepresented 
communities and minorities.
One particularly appealing 
comment is directly aimed at 
our campus. “Chalking an anti-
immigrant, pro-Trump slogan on a 
sidewalk is one thing; spray painting 
it on a building is another, ” 
Napolitano says. So, if it’s on the 
ground and erasable hate speech, 
it’s okay, but how dare you 
spray paint those same words 
on University property? Hate 
speech is no less hateful when 
it is written on the ground in 
front of a building instead of on 
the building itself, regardless of 
whether it is permanent or not. 
She says it herself: “That 
which is designed to personally 
intimidate or harass falls outside 
First Amendment protections, as 
outlined by the Supreme Court. ” 
But then, Napolitano claims 
those chalked messages fit the 
bill as “free speech” that should 
be protected, which assumes what is 
a skewed definition of harassment. 
Students are sometimes coddled, 
that is true, but you cannot claim 
hate speech is not protected by the 
first Amendment and then criticize 
students who acknowledge and 
protest hate speech. Napolitano is yet 
another example of someone from an 
older generation thinking they know 
better than us because we interpret 
important issues differently than her. In Op-Ed, Napolitano 
Offers Self-Contradictory 
Take on Free Speech
Hate speech is no 
less hateful when 
it is written on the 
ground in front of 
a building instead 
of on the building 
itself, regardless 
of whether it is 
permanent or not. 
“
“
“
“A&E EDITOR // SAM VELAZQUEZ
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // BRITTNEY LU
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGWEEKEND
Ba lancing four classes, two jobs, an unpaid internship, an extracurricular 
club — all on top of managing finances, relationships, applications for 
even more jobs, grad schools and research opportunities? Sound too 
familiar? Unfortunately, this has become the undergraduate culture and all-
too-recognizable climate of UCSD. Before postgraduate “adult” life even begins, 
students are increasingly becoming prone to burnout, dependent on caffeine and 
seemingly reliant on stress as momentum to get through assignments, applications 
and assessments. 
In the 2015 National College Health Assessment II conducted by The American 
College Health Association, it was reported that only half of college students 
reported good or excellent health, with 85.6 percent of surveyed students “feeling 
overwhelmed, ” 81.7 percent feeling “exhausted from non-physical activity” and 
56.9% “feeling overwhelming anxiety. ” Y et despite these findings in surveys, 75.8 
percent of students didn’t take further steps to receive therapy or treatment.
So in the midst of all these statistics, why is it that we as students continue 
to push ourselves beyond capacity, neglecting to take care of ourselves first? 
Is it because our need to perform, make ends meet or pass that class has 
exponentially outweighed our need to occasionally put ourselves first? All too 
often, students — even during week one — are pushing themselves beyond 
what is needed to get that grade, job or opportunity. This is not to say this isn’t 
admirable; the student mentality of perseverance, discipline and dedication is 
astounding, but it shouldn’t have to be at the cost of the mental, physical and 
emotional well-being of the individual.
Self-care has essentially become synonymous with “treating yo'self, ” so 
eloquently coined by Tom Haverford of Parks and Rec, but what this insinuates is 
that self-care is only momentary, a passing event where one indulges themselves 
in rest at the sacrifice of doing the essay, reading or lab later. And for many, there 
isn’t that luxury of self-care, because the privilege of rest is negated by the need to 
work to pay for tuition and housing. The privilege of sleep is negated by the need 
to pull all-nighters before the midterm that weighs 40 percent of the class grade, 
and the privilege of socializing is outweighed by the need for solitary study time. 
Retrospectively, it’s hard to advocate for a complete 360 degrees when it comes 
to reevaluating the student lifestyle. We cannot simply toss aside all responsibility, 
but what we can do is remind ourselves that before we are students, employees, 
interns or researchers, we are deserving of that time to be mindful, or even that 
time to do basic things, like eat and sleep. So until the day comes where “treating 
yo’self ” could be incorporated throughout the demanding routine of life, take 
a moment now to remember that the pressure to be under pressure is not the 
quintessence of student life. 
Love living in SoCal, but hate the excessive spending necessary to keep 
up with the latest trends? Here are some cheaper alternatives to your 
favorite fads that will leave you feeling just as great. 
Yogi Life
 Save on your monthly yoga membership fee and opt for free online videos. 
With a simple Y ouTube search and a mat or towel, your new yoga routine can 
be practiced at the park, in the comfort of your own home or even at the beach. 
Online yoga videos can range anywhere from 20 minutes to three-plus hours 
and are specified for anyone, from beginner to advanced.
Blendin’ Berries
The SoCal sunshine often inspires smoothie and acai bowl cravings. Rather 
than turning to an overpriced juice bar, head home to create your own fruity 
concoction. Blend together your favorite fruits, veggies and juices. In addition 
to having complete control over what is going into your body, this trick will 
save you big bucks, especially if you stock up on frozen fruit in bulk. To turn 
your smoothie into a bowl, thicken your juice with a banana and top it with 
your favorite granola and berries!  
Spa Day
 Sometimes you just have to treat yo’self! This spa day, save on your beauty 
products by making them yourself. To moisturize your face, whip up avocado, 
a little yogurt and a touch honey. Apply it onto your face then rinse with warm 
water after 10–15 minutes. This will ease your skin after a stressful week at 
school. Add a little lemon if you are looking to lighten dark spots or scarring 
on your face. To soften and add shine to your hair, heat some olive or coconut 
oil in the microwave. Massage it into your hair from the roots down and leave 
it for 20–30 minutes. Shower to rinse. Self Care: Selfish or Quintessential?
Socal healthy living on a budget
by Tara Nejad // Staff writerby Brittney Lu //  lifestyle editor
Illustration by Sam Xu // UCSD Guardian
Illustration by Alex Liang // UCSD Guardian
 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 13, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
C3 IoT is Hiring the Brightest Minds in
DATA SCIENCE
C3 IoT is meeting a fast-growing demand for machine-learning IoT applications that enable 
organizations in data-intensive industries to use real-time performance monitoring and 
predictive analytics to optimize business processes, differentiate products and services, and 
create new revenue streams. C3 IoT is a comprehensive Platform as a Service (PaaS) for the 
rapid design, development, deployment, and operation of next-generation IoT applications.     
www.c3iot.comAre you ready to:
Discover, develop, and implement the next generation of big data analytics
Tackle huge data sets employing the latest technologies for industrial-scale projects and 
global customers
Enable enterprise customers to embrace data-driven predictions and decision making
Work with an internationally-recognized team of IT, software, and data science experts
Join a high-growth enterprise software company in the heart of Silicon Valley
Make an impact and have fun doing what you love, while building your ideal career
“C3 IoT has developed some of the most sophisticated applications
of machine learning and forecasting techniques for today’s 
modern enterprise systems.
            — S. Shankar Sastry,  Dean, College of Engineering, University of California, Berkeley
”
APPLY TODAY:
View position details
and submit resume:
c3iot.com/careers
8     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 13, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
Located between Jamba Juice and PC Theater in the heart of campus, 
The Zone is a quiet getaway from the loud demands of student life. 
The Zone is a self-proclaimed “lounge for student well-being” and 
aims at creating a holistically healthy campus through health education, self-
care resources and events that cultivate physical, mental and social wellness. 
Like most study spaces on campus, The Zone offers a tranquil atmosphere, 
spacious tables and comfortable chairs — but what’s unique about The Zone 
is that its focus is not only to create a space for getting work done, but to 
allow fellow Tritons to escape from the pressures of being a student at UCSD. 
Cultivating a productive and relaxing space, The Zone is a balance of work 
and rest, a place where students can go and rejuvenate without the guilt of 
having to constantly perform.
The Zone also provides programs targeting mind and body restoration 
beyond the classroom. For instance, every Thursday afternoon from 1:30-
2:30 p.m., the beloved “Therapy Fluffies” event allows UCSD students to 
stop by and de-stress by playing with a few pups in between class. The Zone 
also offers morning meditation and yoga sessions, healthy cooking tutorials, 
massages and art activities. But if you really don’t have the time to spend 
30 minutes in mindful breathing and rest, The Zone offers free herbal teas 
while you study and beanbag chairs for those much-needed 15-minute naps 
in between lectures.
While painting a mug or sipping a cuppa black lychee tea are small acts, 
the ability to take that moment and pause mindfully reduces stress and can 
even induce more healthy productivity. As a partner with Student Health 
Services and Counseling and Psychological Services, The Zone understands 
the external demands that internally affect students and is a much-needed 
resource on campus. But what’s more, places like The Zone ask us to question 
why there aren’t more spaces like this at UCSD. What we currently have on 
campus is still underutilized or may even remain unknown to many students. 
The Zone, the Women’s Center, Black Resource Center and Cross Cultural 
Center are some of the resources on campus for students to take care of 
themselves, but they remain highly underused or unknown. And with the 
growing pressures of undergraduate life, coupled with burdens of planning for 
the future, it’s recommended that the campus provide more places that focus 
on cultivating well-rounded, healthy people through holistic, inclusive and 
safe spaces. 
So if you get the chance, stop by The Zone or any other resource center 
on campus to get that healthy dose of rest we really need as students. For a 
full list of resources on campus, visit wellness.ucsd.edu, or thecolleges.ucsd.
edu/resources. get in the zone
by Brittney Lu //  lifestyle editor
A crime drama, a story of 
redemption, a story of brother 
against brother, “Luke Cage” 
weaves many plots seamlessly into one 
season. Set in Harlem, rather than Hell’s Kitchen, the series involves 
contemporary political issues 
while still offering a focus onto the 
Marvels series' overarching issue: 
superpowered people among fictional New Yorkers.
Race is a crucial part of the series, 
as the titular character is “bulletproof 
and unafraid” in a time where many 
young men of color don’t have that luxury. The series is filled with imagery 
and scenes parallel to events outside 
of the fictional universe, done in a 
manner that even skeptics of current 
racial tensions would find palatable. 
Luke Cage (Mike Colter) walks 
the fine line between vigilante and 
hero. Marvel’s Netflix series forte 
is vigilante protagonists, trying to 
reclaim his or her neighborhood while 
fighting against organizations larger 
than themselves. Where Marvel’s 
“Luke Cage” differs is through the 
type of heroism expressed by Cage: 
He is the defender rather than a 
reluctant hero like ex-flame Jessica 
Jones, or guilt-ridden vigilante like 
Daredevil. He literally takes bullets 
for a neighborhood that would rather 
him avoid confronting the corrupt 
businessmen running the streets.
Those who make key decisions 
about Harlem’s future under the 
guise of renewal and regrowth are the 
villains in Cage’s Harlem. Cage cripples 
the grip that Cornell “Cottonmouth” 
Stokes (Mahershala Ali), a premier 
businessman and crime lord, and 
his cousin Mariah Dillard (Alfre 
Woodard), a councilwoman using her 
projects to launder his money, have 
on Harlem. They believe their grip 
to be their birthright because of their 
relation to crime lord Mama Mabel 
Stokes. ‘Cottonmouth, ’ Mariah and 
Luke battle for the hearts and minds 
of Harlem throughout the season. “Luke Cage’s” multidimensional 
villains occasionally have a tortured 
past, but interestingly all had 
predetermined futures. Luke’s past 
isn’t any less complicated, slowly 
unfolding throughout the series and 
becoming clearer as to why he helps a 
neighborhood that is selectively deaf 
and blind. How Carl Lucas became 
Luke Cage is a marvel: thrown in 
prison while innocent, forced to fight, 
tested on and reborn. Some might 
arise from the ashes of their former life 
hardened by the misfortunes they’ve 
experienced and bent on revenge 
against those that put them there; 
Cage arose an honorable man, the sort 
that doesn’t kill the people shooting 
at him.
Cage faces attacks on multiple 
fronts: ‘Cottonmouth’ focuses on 
killing him while Mariah and the 
men pulling her strings focus on 
killing Cage’s reputation. Under 
their advice she uses public fear over 
his super-abilities to set him up for 
crimes he didn’t commit, turning the 
police against him to create conflict 
between Cage and Harlem itself. 
While her motivation should be 
considered, the question she poses 
is extremely relevant: Is Luke Cage 
an uncontrollable vigilante or is he 
Harlem’s hero?
—   Rachel  novotny
 Staff WriterThe Marvel Cinematic Universe expands into Harlem in “Luke Cage. ”
PHOTO BY ALYSSA STOCKER-KEEFE // UCSD GUARDIAN
PHOTO BY KYLE SZETSO // UCSD GUARDIAN PHOTO BY KYLE SZETSO // UCSD GUARDIAN
Starring   Mike Colter, Simone Missick, Alfre Woodard, Mahershala Ali
Runs   Full Season Available on Netflix
Created by   Cheo Hodari Coker B+TV   REVIEW
Mar vel's  Luke    cage THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 13, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
At r o c i t y  e x h i b i t i o n
by   danny  brown
Release Date Sept 27
“At r o c i t y  E x h i b i t i o n”  c o n t i n u e s  t h e  o ff- t h e - w a l l s  t a l e  o f  a  g o d d a m n  b e a u t i f u l  d i s a s t e r.ALBUM  REVIEW
Danny Brown rose to 
prominence with 
“XXX, ” a foul-mouthed 
portrait of a rapper in skinny 
jeans set against the backdrop 
of a declining Detroit. Its gutter 
talk won over fans and critics 
alike, who often cite “XXX” as 
one of the defining albums of 
the Internet age. Brown pulled 
back on the humor and assumed 
the role of biographer on the 
icy, more mainstream “Old. ” 
Now, Brown returns to the zany, 
drug-induced antics that have 
him regarded as not only a master 
storyteller, but an avant-garde 
auteur.
On “ Atrocity Exhibition, ” 
Brown raps of swollen jaws, 
narcotic withdrawal, dark nights 
and the darker mornings that 
follow. From the claustrophobic 
first lines of “Downward Spiral” 
to the trashy electro frenzy of 
“When It Rain, ” it’s clear that 
Brown is throwing a rager on 
a sinking ship. It’s a celebrity 
meltdown, and like any good 
tabloid it’s hard to look away.
Again, Danny Brown turns to 
his childhood and dealer days for 
inspiration, criss-crossing horror 
vignettes of poverty and tragedy 
with drug-induced euphoria. 
Rather than telling a story, Brown 
pulls bits and pieces from the past 
to establish a gruesome mood; 
it’s more “XXX” than “Old. ” It 
isn’t a change for the artist, but 
a progression. Brown has honed 
his swervy falsetto delivery to 
a deadly pinpoint, and it’s now backed by the most distinct beats 
in the game. Brown has certainly 
found his secret weapon in British 
producer Paul White.
Allegedly, $70,000 was spent 
here on samples, and it shows. 
White has crafted something 
that sounds straight out of a 
slasher film. A women wails like a 
ghost on “Lost;” haunted space-
age keyboards form the base 
of “White Lines”; interspersed 
through it all are ambient creaks 
and whispers that try to convince 
you there’s a serial killer hiding 
in your closet. It complements 
Brown’s hysterics quite nicely.
One of the standout tracks 
is “ Ain’t it funny, ” an absolutely 
apeshit foot-stomper of a song. 
White turns a five-second sample 
from Pink Floyd drummer Nick 
Mason’s solo work into the 
auditory representation of a panic 
attack. Meanwhile, Brown raps 
of living fast and the imminent 
meltdown just beyond the 
horizon. The song demonstrates 
the powerful chemistry these 
two artists have, the result of 
which owes as much to industrial 
rock — artists such as “Nine Inch 
Nails” and “Swans” — as it does to 
trap and EDM.
It wouldn’t be a Danny 
Brown production if it didn’t 
have what Brown has coined 
“a weed smoking song. ” On 
the penultimate track “Get Hi, ” 
Brown takes another sabbatical 
away from his life problems 
through the power of cannabis 
and advises the listener do the same. It may seem like a 
straightforward drug song, but 
Brown is a rapper praised for his 
ability to weave contradictions 
throughout his work. “Get Hi” is 
serene and strangely melodic, but 
as Brown’s problems and weed 
tolerance build up, it feels like 
he’s slipping toward rock bottom       
in slo-mo.
The album ends on a 
reassurance. Brown rallies himself 
on “Hell for it, ” candidly speaking 
about his motivations, personal 
trials and how they’ve shaped 
him. Finally, the artist finds 
salvation in his art, thus ending 
the latest chapter of his career. It 
seems Danny Brown will be all 
right, at least for now. 
At the age of 35, Danny Brown 
is older than he looks. After 
a decade of hustling, a failed 
stint at Roc-A-Fella records and 
his ostracisation from G-Unit 
because of his pants, Brown only 
achieved widespread recognition 
five years ago.Yet despite the 
acclaim of “XXX” and the long 
path he took to get to that point, 
it still feels as though Brown 
has yet to fully tap into this 
nightmarish vision of his. If his 
partnership with White is any 
indication, he’s on the right track. 
It’s all up (or down) from here for 
that gapped-toothed hedonist.
—   Josh  Lefler
 Staff Writerb50
by   Rick  Astley
Release Date Oct 7
Rick Astley returns, older and wiser, with a new album.ALBUM  REVIEW
Take a long, critical look at 
the video for “Never Gonna 
Give You Up. ” Its meme 
cache stems primarily from the 
dated, campy potato-quality grain. 
Rick Astley ascended to web infamy 
when “rickrolling” exploded onto 
the internet, and, to his credit, the 
musician has responded to the 
phenomenon with bemused humor. 
If anything, “50” is a snapshot of the 
long-since departed era of ‘80s pop, 
peppered with Christian references 
and lovesick intonations.
Astley has not honed his lyric 
writing in the past decade, and 
he makes do with hackneyed 
platitudes to life, faith and 
perseverance. However, amid 
the haze of generality, Astley 
provides a fascinating and rarely 
seen perspective: that of middle-
aged singer of little renown. How 
does one come to terms with lost 
fame, and the malaise that so 
often accompanies that fall? By 
cryogenically preserving oneself 
thirty years in the past, apparently. 
Words often fail Astley on “50;” 
for “This Old House, ” he stolidly 
returns to the home in question, 
over and over, repeating the title 
as though hoping a choral refrain 
will save him the trouble of writing 
anything more. Occasionally, the 
more palatable number elevates 
“50, ” like “Dance, ” a sing’n’ clap piece 
with a sugary, catchy hook, which 
has Beelzebub consoling a man by 
telling him to “pick [his] feet up and 
dance. ” Here, Astley’s choir-boy and 
blue-eyed-soul roots show, as his 
devil begs the Lord for aid. A feather in Astley’s cap: He’s 
kept that deep, rich voice which 
propelled him into the public 
consciousness back in 1987. It hasn’t 
rusted with age, and “50” shows that 
Astley retains the range and subtlety 
which made his honey-spun sound 
so pleasant. Across the pond, “50” 
has proven quite popular, charting 
number one in the UK — his first in 
29 years — and selling over 100,000 
units. Quite the achievement, 
considering his previous album, 
“Portrait” (2005) hit 26 at its peak. 
Is “50” a bad album? No, not 
in the slightest. It simply isn’t 
noteworthy, or even all that good. A 
middling, milquetoast production 
from a modestly talented 
performer. “50” will most likely 
be well-received by Astley’s aging 
generational cohort in the United 
States, wistful for the music of their 
youth, delivered by one of their 
own. It retreads familiar ground, 
sticking by Astley’s strong faith and 
antiquated tastes. 
That can be oddly admirable: 
In spite of the musical revolutions 
of the ‘90s and 2000s, Astley has 
resisted the flow of time. He does 
not seem keen to give up his chosen 
schtick. So, even as Astley croons 
on his final track that he’s “been 
achin’ for a love that no longer 
seems [his], ” those anxieties may 
prove false. No worries, Rick; there 
are admirers aplenty who are never 
gonna give you, or your music, up.
—   Alicia  lepler
 Staff Writerc
Though small, the San Diego 
Museum of Photographic 
Arts features focused, 
impactful exhibits. One such exhibit is 
its celebration of the San Diego Zoo’s 
centennial, “Beauty and the Beast. ” 
Divided into sections, the exhibit 
explores perceptions of animals in 
varying forms, from still life to tableau 
vivant to portraits. Some sections, like 
“Nature Revisited, ” explore symbolism 
in art as a reflection of humanity’s 
relationship with nature: to conform 
and constrict it — an argument that 
could be applied to any conception of 
nature in art.
“Beauty and the Beast” displays 
a large range of pieces, despite being 
an exhibit showing only photography. 
Even in these photographs, a dramatic 
range of styles and mediums are 
displayed: moody gelatin silver prints, 
color-corrected chromatographs, well-
framed video projects and wacky post-
processed edits.  
Pieces such as the visually stunning 
“King of Birds, ” by Richard Selesnick 
and Nicholas Kahn, feature extensive 
post-processing work, editing in birds 
hanging off of a posed man. This image, 
among many others, inspires viewers 
to ask, “why birds?” and to evaluate 
the role of animals in the work. Other 
works, like Loretta Lux’s “Siegfried, ” 
featuring a profile of a cat in the desert 
are simpler, featuring animals in their 
own world, isolated from humans. In 
contrast, the section on posing features 
deliberate manipulations of animals in 
their worlds, from a giraffe in a French palace to cats wearing Elizabethan-
styled collars, further exploring 
human and animal dynamics and 
again provoking questions in viewers’ 
minds. Some pieces feature taxonomy, 
harkening back to the age of explorers 
and old-style wildlife biology, 
demonstrating human relations with 
animals throughout the ages. Still more 
pieces feature video, such as Thomas 
Abbott’s “Prairie, ” which consists of 
a birdcage with a video of a canary 
displayed, challenging viewers to 
think of their conceptions of pets and 
animals and a new way of seeing the 
medium of photography. 
A multitude of animal-human 
relationships are explored, from 
anthropomorphism to house pets to 
hunting. Through representation of 
these various relationships, “Beauty 
and the Beast” strives to explore the 
tenacious balance between humans 
and nature. Through its creative 
and dramatic expressions of animals 
posing for portraits, videos of animals 
as food and other such portrayals, the 
exhibit invites viewers to ponder the 
effects of humans on animals, and 
vice versa. Though a small exhibit, 
the Museum of Photographic Arts’ 
“Beauty and the Beast” successfully 
conveys the complexities of human 
and animal relationships, both past 
and present.
—   Chandra   Couzens
 Staff Writer
Dates  May 28, 2016 - October 9, 2016
Location   Museum of Photographic ArtsBeauty  and  the  beastVISUAL ARTS  
In celebration of the San Diego Zoo’s centennial, The Museum of Photographic 
Arts’ “Beauty and the Beast” explored humans’ relation to animals.
PHOTO COURTESY OF THE MUSEUM OF PHOTOGRAPHIC ARTS10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 13, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDS
VACATION
0 bedroom Pacific Beach - $4000. Minutes 
to the beach. Easy access to freeway and 
downtown. Sit down bay view from dining 
table. Watch fireworks from living room or 
off deck. Very private deluxe accommoda -
tions. Listing ID: 310319955 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
2 bedroom Sorrento Valley - $2850. 
Charming 1st floor end south facing unit. 
Enjoy plenty of sunshine on a tranquil 
private lake, pool and jacuzzi. Koi filled 
streams and waterfalls meander through -
out the property grounds. Tennis courts, 
and Saunal on the property. 5 minutes 
on local street to Torrey Pines State Beach 
and Reserve. Very tastefully decorated with 
antiques and an Asian flare. Tiffany lamps, 
new King size bed in the Master, new refrig -
erator, Internet and phone service. Close to 
downtown Del Mar, shops, restaurants. 20 
minutes from downtown San Diego and 
the Airport. Close to Carmel Valley Business 
District. Unlike any other complex in the 
area. Listing ID: 310319940 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
3 bedroom Pacific Beach - $3950. The Beach 
House on Venice Court is a fully furnished 
3 bedroom/2 bathroom house in an amaz -
ing location! Just steps from the ocean 
and walking distance to Pacific Beach 
stores and restaurants. Looking for medi -
um to longer term rentals $3950/month. 
Also open to shorter term rentals if space 
is available. Newly renovated with fully 
equipped kitchen including fridge/freezer, 
dishwasher, microwave, oven, coffee maker, 
toaster oven, blender, silverware, plates, 
glasses, and cookware. Unit also has wash -
er/dryer, Big Screen HD TV on main, and 
TVs in all bedrooms. Parking for 2 vehicles 
and private patio with BBQ and furniture. 
No smoking. Small pets will be considered. 
Close to USD, UCSD, Pacific Beach, La Jolla, 
Pt Loma, downtown (Gaslamp, Little Italy, 
East Village). Great central location and 
easily accessible given its proximity to free -
ways. Listing ID: 309519712 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
AUTOMOTIVE
Pitstop Auto Spa Center - 20% Off Auto 
Detail Services Mira Mesa - Expires. CAR 
WASHES - AUTO DETAILING. Listing ID: 
306503332 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Clairemont Car Wash - $10 Off Car Wash, 
Hand Wa & Tire Treatment - Clairemont - 
CAR WASHES - AUTO DETAILING. Listing ID: 
306503328 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more informationAAA Japanese Car Specialists - Oil Change 
Special San Diego $14.95* - Expires 
- GENERAL AUTO REPAIR. Listing ID: 
307261269 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
ELECTRONICS
Sony Handycam - $100. Sony Handycam 
HDD 60 GB Model dcr-sr47. Including cam -
era , two batteries, camera bag and charger. 
Everything is in super condition. Listing ID: 
305156992 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
GoPro HERO 4 Silver - $300. Brand new 
GoPro HERO four silver waterproof with 
built in touch display 1080p60 12mp WiFi 
& Bluetooth control view share. FIRM PRICE 
$300. Listing ID: 304329629 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
3 Boxes of VHS Video Movie Tapes: Star 
Wars and Other Collectors - $25. Too many 
to list. Must buy all boxes. I will deliver if 
you want. Locally, I am near the 78 freeway 
and College Blvd. Listing ID: 304329626 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
informationComplete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies 
on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.ukLevel: 1234
SUDOKU
CLASSIFIEDSGuardian Classifieds are FREE for the UC San Diego community.
 www.ucsdguardian.org/classifieds
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972NATIONAL DESSERT DAY
OCTOBER 14, 2016
FOL LOW US
@ucsdgua rdian
PUBLIC NOTICE
The University of California, San Diego (UC San Diego) proposes to adopt a Mitigated 
Negative Declaration (MND) for the Osler Parking Structure project in accordance with 
the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). 
The proposed project would involve the construction of an approximately 419,000 gross 
square foot (GSF), six-level parking structure and a single-story, 800 square foot (SF) 
visitor center, where a surface parking lot (P604) currently exists. The project is located 
at Gilman Drive and Osler Lane.  As a result of siting the building for the most effective 
land use and circulation, the proposed project would involve the demolition of the 
majority of the existing parking lot, clearing of existing vegetation, and grading and fill 
of slopes to the west and south.  The proposed parking structure would include 
approximately 1,300 parking spaces and retain 38 surface parking spaces from the 
existing parking lot. Additionally, 66 new bicycle parking spaces would also be added in 
close proximity to the pedestrian entrance along Osler Lane.  The proposed parking 
structure would include two pedestrian/vehicle access points off of Gilman Drive (Third 
Level) and Osler Lane (Second Level) as well as one additional pedestrian entrance at 
the proposed Osler Pedestrian Plaza and Entry along the northern façade of the 
proposed parking structure. 
Based on the Initial Study (IS) prepared for the project, it has been determined that the 
project will not have a significant effect on the environment that cannot be mitigated.  
Therefore, an MND will be issued.  Copies of the Draft IS/MND may be viewed at:  
http://physicalplanning.ucsd.edu/environmental/pub_notice.html or by contacting the 
UC San Diego Physical & Community Planning Office, 9500 Gilman Drive, La Jolla, 
CA  92093-0074, (858) 534-6515.  Public review of the Draft IS/MND will extend from 
October 10, 2016 to November 9. 2016.  Any comments regarding the accuracy of the 
project IS/MND should be directed to the UC San Diego Physical & Community 
Planning Office at the above address.
SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 13, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGsee more at
the Golden Eagles won the set with 
a kill and ace back-to-back. 
Set three would be nothing 
like the second one as Cal State 
LA would dominate from the 
beginning. The team stormed out 
to an 8–1 advantage and at one 
point won eight of 11 points to lead 
18–11. The Tritons had one last 
gasp as they saved six match points 
to make it a one-score game, but 
it proved to be fruitless as junior 
setter Kelsey Molnar ended the 
match with a kill. It is the first time 
UCSD has been swept all season.
The leading players for Cal State 
LA were senior right side hitter 
Taylor Kushner with 12 kills and 
senior outside hitter Lauren Gomez 
who recorded a match-high 17 digs. 
The Tritons finish their week 
off with two matches, against No. 
19 Cal State Bernardino on Oct. 14 
and then against Cal Poly Pomona 
on Oct. 15.
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICSDev  Jain  dajain@ucsd,eduSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
DEV JAIN
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 13, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
UCSD Falls Out of First 
Place Due to Tough Loss
In a battle between two of the best teams in the CCAA, Cal State LA sweeps the Tritons in three 
sets. UCSD will look to bounce back against Cal State San Bernardino and Cal Poly this weekend.Women’s VolleyballThe Tritons team have outscored opponents 19-1 in their 
last six matches and are still undefeated in CCAA play. Tritons Crush 
Monterey Bay for 
Sixth Win in a Row
By Rosina Garcia // Senior Staff WriterWOMEN’S SOCCER
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE/UCSD GUARDIAN
Cal State Los Angeles (11–6, 7–2) defeated the 
UCSD volleyball team (9–7, 6–2) in three straight 
sets (25–22, 26–24 and 25–23) on Tuesday night. 
The two California Collegiate Athletic Association 
division leaders played their match at University 
Gym. Entering the match, the Tritons were leaders 
of the South Division, but the Golden Eagles’ victory 
launched the team into the top spot.
For UCSD, senior outside hitter Meagan Wright 
led with 12 points, all on kills to go along with seven 
digs. Other notable Tritons were sophomore libero 
Kayla Evans with a team-high 12 digs and freshman 
opposite Simone Froley with five blocks.
Offense was at a season low in this match as 
UCSD hit a mere .148 and Cal State LA hit .162. The Tritons had more blocks than the Golden Eagles, 
9.5–5, but Cal State LA dominated in digs 60–45.
After scoring five points before UCSD opened its 
counter, the Golden Eagles never gave their lead up 
in the opening set. The Tritons did their best to hold 
off a loss but junior middle blocker Erie Williams 
ended the game with a kill.
The middle frame was the most exciting with 
three lead changes and 10 tied scores. UCSD played 
well early in the set, grabbing an 11–7 lead. However, 
Cal State LA would answer with seven of the next 
eight points to take a 14–12 lead. Wright would then 
catch fire to drill five kills in a 6–1 run by UCSD. At 
23–21, the Tritons fought back once again to tie the 
match. Both teams would battle back and forth until BY  D e v   J a i n
Sports EditorThe UCSD women’s soccer team easily 
defeated California Collegiate Athletic 
Association opponent Cal State 
Monterey Bay 4–0 this past Sunday, Oct. 9 
at the Otter Sports Complex. UCSD’s win — 
its seventh in a row — put the team at 10–2 
overall and 6–0 in CCAA play. The Otters 
dropped to 4–8 overall and 1–7 in the CCAA. 
UCSD outshot Monterey Bay 28–6, and 
that showed even in the first 10 minutes, with 
the Tritons shooting six times. The first goal 
came in the 16th minute, however, from junior 
forward Katie O’Laughlin. Receiving the ball 
on the left side, with her back to the goal, she 
dribbled it toward the center and made the 
goal from about 30 yards back. This marked 
the 10th goal of the year for O’Laughlin, tying 
her career-best from last year, and putting 
her in the lead for the league and entire West 
Region. This was the only goal from the first 
period. 
In the 52nd minute, redshirt senior 
forward Kiera Bocchino received a pass from 
sophomore forward Mary Reilly and shot wide 
open from left to right to score the second goal 
of the game. Reilly’s assist marked her eighth 
of the season, the most for the Tritons.
Just three and a half minutes later in the 
55th, junior defender Makenzie Brito shot 
from just outside of the penalty box from the 
right. This marked Brito’s first career goal, 
which was unassisted. 
After this, the game was relatively low-key 
until literally the last minute. With just 31 
seconds left, sophomore midfielder Summer 
Bales, assisted by senior midfielder Kristen 
Sampietro, made a tough-angle, right-sided 
cross shot to put the score at 4–0 and to put the 
nail in the coffin for the Otters. 
Redshirt senior goalkeeper Itzel Gonzalez 
made three saves during the game, making 
this her eighth scoreless game of the season 
and fourth in a row. The Otters’ goalkeeper, 
sophomore Victoria Whyte, set a single-game 
record for Monterey Bay with 14 saves. 
“Overall, it was a really good team 
performance, ” UCSD head coach Brian 
McManus told the UCSD Athletics Department. 
"We got the first-half goal from Katie 
[O'Laughlin] but gave up a couple of chances, 
and if Itzel [Gonzalez] hadn't made one nice 
save, it could have been a different game. ”
"I felt like Friday's game at San Francisco 
State played a role, ” McManus said. “We were 
able to rest some of our key players in that one, 
which helped in the second half today with the 
big field and tall grass. Our fitness came into 
play, and we were able to put it away."
This past weekend’s games positioned the 
Tritons at the top spot of the conference table 
with 18 points. Current champion Sonoma 
State and Cal State Los Angeles both trail with 
5–1 records in the CCAA and 15 points apiece. 
The Tritons play at home this weekend 
against Cal State Los Angeles on Friday at 4:30 
p.m. and Cal State Dominguez Hills on Sunday 
at 11:30 a.m.
Rosina  Garcia  rmg008@ucsd,eduUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESW.Soccer
M.Soccer
W.Volleyball
W. Soccer
M.Soccer10/14
10/14
10/15
10/16
10/164:30 PM
7 PM
7 PM
11:30 AM
2 PMVS Cal State Los Angeles
VS Cal State Los Angeles 
VS Cal Poly Pomona
VS Cal State Dominguez Hills
VS Cal State Dominguez Hills