VOLUME 50, ISSUE 12   MONDA Y , OCTOBER 31, 2016  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
VETERANS 
AT UCSD
MILITARY VETERANS ARE 
AMONG THE MOST UNIQUE 
AND OVERLOOKED STUDENTS 
ATTENDING UCSD. WE SAT 
DOWN WITH ONE TO LEARN 
ABOUT THE COMMUNITY’S 
CHALLENGES AND HOW THEY 
ADAPT TO COLLEGE LIFE. 
CLOWN  SEASON  
UNDEFEA TED!STEPHEN   KING  AND  MARKETING
Women's  soccerOPINION, P AGE 4
sports,  P age  12
OFORECAST
VERBATIM
SO IF HERE, WHERE  THE RENT 
PER CAPITA  IS MORE  THAN  
NINE TIMES GREATER , HOW 
MANY  REFUGEE S IS THE U.S. 
WELCOMING ? UNFORTUNATELY , 
THE ANSWER IS NO MORE  THAN  
10,000, OR 250 TIMES LESS 
THAN TURKEY , ACCORDING  TO 
AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL  DATA.“
-Alba Diez-Mann
ALBA’S WORLD
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
CORRECTION  .................. 2
UC WORKERS  ................. 4
FLYING SAMARITANS .......8
CROSSWORD  ................ 10 
MEN’S SOCCER  ............ 12FEA TURES, P AGE  6
PHOTO BY NAME HERE / GUARDIAN
MONDAY
H 96 L 72TUESDAY
H 86 L 68
WEDNESDAY
H 79 L 67THURSDAY 
H 79 L 66
Members of the Systems Biology 
Research Group at UCSD have 
developed two big data techniques 
that enable discovery of biological 
regularities. The discoveries allow 
scientists to better understand and 
predict cell activity, according to the 
findings that were published online in 
the Nature Communications journal 
on Oct. 26.
First author and doctoral 
student in the SBRG Ali Ebrahim 
revealed that research is integrating 
and making use of the plethora of 
relevant datasets.
“Biology is rapidly changing 
because of more and more omics data, 
which is basically data that measures 
everything in a cell, ” Ebrahim told 
the UCSD Guardian. “Before omics, 
you would measure a handful of RNA 
levels, but the omics datasets, thanks to advances in sequencing, let you 
measure the level of every single RNA 
inside a cell. ”
Co-author and postdoc at the 
SBRG Elizabeth Brunk explained 
that first technique developed pairs of 
disparate omics data in a purposeful 
manner for further interpretation.
“Pairwise integration means 
pairing more than one type of omics 
data and trying to make sense of 
what the data is telling you when you 
pair it together since there’s a lot of 
biological processes that we might 
not understand, ” Bunk said. “Changes 
in one type of data may not reflect or 
give you any reason to understand 
changes in a different type of data but 
we were able to pair them and find 
meaningful associations. ”
The researchers looked at pairwise 
integration in Escerichia coli and 
discovered regularities in the number 
of protein molecules made per mRNA transcript and the number 
of ribosomes required per translated 
protein molecule.
The second technique allows omics 
data, like expression, to be integrated 
into genomic and bibliomic based 
genome-scale models. This technique 
resulted in the discovery of two novel 
regularities: enzyme turnover rate and 
translational pausing.
Brunk stated that the parametrized 
model uses the genome-scale model 
to predict gene expression.
“The parametrized model is taking 
certain types of omics data and directly 
integrating it into the genomes scale 
model, ” Brunk said. “Proteins in the 
cell operate under different catalytic 
rates, and you can parametrize the 
model and understand the rates of 
those enzymes to predict expression 
of genes. ”
Brunk continued to explain Campus 
Researchers Host 
Town Hall on 
the Environment CAMPUS
The event, hosted by the Scripps 
Institution of Oceanography, 
aimed to encourage partnerships 
between organizations on campus.
Scripps Institution of Oceanography 
held a town hall meeting for 
Understanding and Protecting 
the Planet in the Eleanor Roosevelt 
College Great Hall on Oct. 17. This 
bi-annual event brings together several 
environmental organizations and labs 
from around campus to discuss what 
progress has been completed on the 
climate change front, as well as projects 
to come. 
This recent gathering included 
speakers from the Human Health 
and Oceans Initiative, the Center 
for Climate Change Impacts and 
Adaptation and several others. Each 
organization provides a different take 
on what work can be done to help 
remediate the global effects of climate 
change and the challenges facing a 
particular course of action. 
One of the speakers, Dr. William H. 
Gerwick of Skaggs School of Pharmacy 
and Pharmaceutical Sciences as well as 
Scripps Institution of Oceanography, 
hailed the event as providing an 
opportunity to bridge the divides 
between some of the labs and provided 
an example of a project for which they 
could collaborate. 
“Many Labs around SIO and 
UCSD have chemical compounds 
they have isolated or synthesized, and 
there are many labs that want unique 
compounds ... but the coordination 
between these two is not currently 
present, ” Gerwick said. 
Gerwick’s presentation focused 
on creating a forum focused entirely 
around the medical field and the 
oceans with the aim to “identify areas 
for development and grants. ”
Dr. Michael Burkart, another 
speaker at the event, presented his 
lab’s work on photosynthetic bio-
manufacturing in algae, for which the 
ultimate aim is to develop algae as a 
major fuel source in place of petroleum-
derived fuels. His presentation cited 
issues facing the global population as 
fuel and food compete for resources 
while human numbers continue to rise, 
and why his labs work could greatly 
manage the global problem. 
“[There is] no question we need to 
find a way to feed the population on 
this planet … W e need to improve algae 
as an agricultural format, ” Burkart said. 
He went on to describe how oils 
can be extracted from algae for fuel 
and the husks for protein in animal 
feed and even for human consumption, 
really emphasizing the full benefit of 
this alternative fuel source. He also 
explained how the institutionalization 
and subsidized price of petroleum-
derived fuels make it nearly impossible 
for algae or any other renewable source 
to compete.One of the challenges of his 
research that was further discussed was UCSD Ranked 15th Best Global University By 
U.S. News & World Report
UCSD was named the 15th best global university 
on Tuesday, according to college rankings 
released by U.S. News & World Report.
Surrounding UCSD on the list were Y ale University, 
ranked 14th, and UCSF , ranked 16th. 
The Best Global Universities rankings report 
differs slightly from the publication’s popular Best 
Colleges rankings report, where UCSD was ranked 
44th, focusing more on research statistics than 
graduation rate and retention. 
The publication ranked UCSD’s departments of 
pharmacology and toxicology fifth; neuroscience 
and behavior, sixth; biology, biochemistry, psychiatry 
and physiology, eighth; and molecular biology and 
genetics, ninth. 
“We are honored to be recognized again as a world-
class university that is devoted to exceptional education and collaborative research, ” Chancellor Pradeep Khosla 
said in a statement. “Our innovative scholars across 
campus push boundaries, challenge expectations and 
redefine conventional wisdom to make our world a better 
place. ” 
Sophomore and cognitive science major Catherine 
Eng said that while she only researched rankings 
pertaining to her major when selecting a university, she 
believes “rankings are useful in deciding which school 
will help you most career-wise when you’re accepting 
admission offers. ” 
“I will say that UCSD is generally known as a great 
school for the sciences so I’m not surprised we’re highly 
ranked globally, ” she added. 
Nearby San Diego State University was ranked 448th, 
with no other San Diego universities listed. 
Specialized categories showed UCSD ranked 15th B y  MA TTHEW  ZAMUDIO    Staff Writer  ROCKY HORROR
Big Data Techniques Help Predict Cell Activity
Researchers discover new regularities such as enzyme turnover rate and translational pausing.See RANKING , page 3
SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY
By  M I N G - r a y  l i a o
senior Staff Writer
See TOWN HALL  , page 3 See DATA  , page 3
BY   N a d i a  L i n k
contributing writer
 Students kicked off the Halloween weekend by attending the Rocky Horror Picture Show, held in Price Center Theater this past Thursday.
Photo by Esra Elhendy // UCSD Guardian
UC SYSTEM
NASA Astronaut and UCSD 
alumni Kate Rubins safely returned 
from space  on Oct 29. She touched 
down in a small town in Kazakhstan 
with two fellow crewmates, one 
from the Russian Space Agency 
and the other from the Japanese 
Space Agency. Rubins and her 
two crewmates were part of the 
Expedition 49 crew and spent a total 
of 115 days in space conducting 
hundreds of research experiments 
for NASA. While in space, Rubins 
left her legacy by becoming the first 
person to sequence DNA in space. 
Sequencing DNA in space was 
an important accomplishment 
for NASA as it will allow future 
astronauts to diagnose illnesses and 
identify microbes growing within 
the Space Station.
“With a way to sequence DNA 
in space, astronauts could diagnose 
an illness, or identify microbes 
growing in the International Space Station and determine whether or 
not they represent a health threat, ” 
NASA said in a press release. “ A 
space-based DNA sequencer would 
be an important tool to help protect 
astronaut health during long 
duration missions on the journey 
to Mars, and future explorers could 
also potentially use the technology 
to identify DNA-based life forms 
beyond Earth. ”
Before becoming an astronaut, 
she graduated from UCSD with a 
Bachelor of Science in Molecular 
Biology in 1999. While at UCSD, 
Rubins researched HIV-1 at the 
Salk Institute for Biological Studies 
under the Infectious Diseases 
Laboratory on HIV-1. After UCSD, 
Rubins completed her Ph.D. in 
Cancer Biology at the Stanford 
Medical School in the Biochemistry 
Department and the Microbiology 
and Immunology Department, 
graduating in 2005. 
Throughout her career, she’s 
studied several dangerous and viral 
diseases such as HIV-1, smallpox and Ebola. Following Stanford, 
Rubins became a Principal 
Investigator at the Whitehead 
Institute for Biomedical Research 
at the Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology. During her time at 
Whitehead, she led a team of 14 
researchers in studying viral diseases 
that dominantly affect Central and 
West African populations.
While conducting her research in 
the Congo, Rubins decided to apply 
to NASA to be an astronaut. Rubins 
described to Nature Magazine that 
she did not think NASA needed 
biologists, but applied anyways 
because she always wanted to be an 
astronaut.
 As Rubins told tells Nature 
Magazine, “It was one of those 
childhood dreams I couldn’t let go 
of. I thought that NASA didn’t take 
biologists and so nothing would 
come of it, but I knew I would regret 
it if I did not apply. ”
Rubins’ experience working 
with viral diseases in hostile 
environments  did not go to waste in space and instead gave her a 
lot of experience for working in 
space. While in the Congo, Rubins 
had to do her research in biosafety 
level 4 facilities, which is the most 
dangerous level on the Biosafety 
scale. According to the Center for 
Disease Control this level is reserved 
for laboratories studying infections 
that are ‘frequently fatal, for which 
there are no vaccines or treatments. ’ 
Working in such labs requires a 
full-body, pressurized suit with it’s 
own air supply, not too unlike an 
astronaut suit except that, as Rubins 
points out, a spacesuit is heavier. 
“It was very helpful to work 
in a biosafety level 4 suit, you’re 
doing difficult task with not a lot of 
dexterity and limit mobility, ” Rubins 
said to Wired Magazine. “But in the 
space suit it’s the first of all much 
heavier, 300, 400 pounds and your 
mobility is even more limited. And 
you’re working on all six axes. ”2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 31, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
WEEKLIES By Alex Lee
DO YOU TWEET? WE DO!
@UCSDGua rdian
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. “Like... He’s building a table? That’s kinda hot, 
not gonna lie” - Alex Dao Wu // Associate Sports Editor // 
Taco Enthusiast.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Caroline Lee
Marketing Director
Peter McInnis
Training and Development Manager
Allison Kubo
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Tina Butoiu
Jacky To
Marcus Thuillier
Lauren Holt
Quinn Pieper
Nathaniel Walker
Rosina Garcia
Alex Wu
Oliver Kelton
Sam Velazquez
Naftali Burakovsky
Brittney Lu
Christian Duarte
Joselynn Ordaz
Aleya Zenieris
Kenji Bennett
Ayat Amin
Christina Carlson
Sophia Huang
Sage Schubert ChristianEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Multimedia Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editors
Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Aleya Zenieris, Quinn Pieper
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim, Alicia Ho, Lisa Chik
Editorial Assistants
Lisa Chik, Miguel Sheker, Tia IkemotoUCSD Alumna Returns From Space After Sequencing DNA In Space
Kate Rubins spent 115 days in space and conducted research allowing for the future identification of microbes in the Space Station.NASA
BY  a y a t  a m i n
contributing Writer
ayat  a m i n    a6Amin@ucsd.edu
CORRECTION :  In the article “Groundbreaking 
Celebration Held for Mid-Coast Trolley Project” 
The Guardian reported  that the Mid-Coast 
Trolley would extend to Pepper Canyon 
Hall. This was incorrect; “Hall” is 
not part of the name. In addition, 
The Guardian reported that the 
City of San Diego administered the 
TransNet funds. It did not. The San 
Diego Association of Governments 
administered the tax.
@UCSDGUARDIANlike us on fb  
the second discovery which led 
to the finding of chromosome 
translational pausing.
“On a different level, we’re still 
using the genome scale model but in a 
totally different way, ” Brunk said. “We 
pair the genomes to the model with 
structural biology — crystal structure 
of proteins — and run profiling data to 
make sense of chromosome pausing. ”The researchers found a 
correlation in protein translation 
where the ribosome pauses to make 
certain structural features, which is 
essential to that protein’s function.
Brunk said that their findings 
should be indicative of a paradigm 
shift in biology toward a more 
interdisciplinary approach.
“It’s one of the first times a lot 
of different fields come together — 
we’re making use of systems biology, we’re making use of methods in 
computational biology but also 
structural biology and omics data 
information, ” Brunk said. “That’s one 
of the implication of this method 
— these different approaches can 
be integrated and that should bring 
about very interesting findings once 
they’re integrated together. ”in the world for the number of 
academic publications that are 
among the 10 percent most cited; 
16th for the number of highly cited 
papers that are among the top one 
percent most cited; and 32nd for 
global research reputation. 
As for other UC campuses, only UC 
Berkeley, ranked fourth, and UCLA, 
ranked 10th, preceded UCSD in the rankings report. UC Santa Barbara 
came in 24th place, with UC Santa 
Cruz following in 27th, UC Davis in 
42nd and UC Irvine in 65th. In a steep 
drop, the 113th ranked UC Riverside 
and 687th ranked UC Merced were 
represented at the bottom of the list. 
“U.S. universities do especially well 
in the Best Global Universities rankings 
because they place an enormous 
emphasis on academic research 
— a key factor in our methodology since these are indicators that can be 
compared globally, ” said Robert Morse, 
chief data strategist at U.S. News & 
World Report. 
The top three spots, in order, 
went to Harvard University, 
Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology and Stanford University. raising awareness. 
“Our group at Cal-CAB and others 
have already demonstrated that algae 
biofuels are feasible, and we are not 
very far away technologically from 
implementing them on a large scale, ” 
Burkart stated. 
The final speaker of the event was 
Dr. Jane T eranes, who spoke of student 
involvement and education in all things 
related to climate change and how it 
will affect them in the future. 
“UCSD graduates too many 
students without an understanding 
of climate change in their lifetime, ” she stated during her presentation. 
“ Addressing climate change is going 
to take a whole range of skillsets and 
will need the talents of all students, 
regardless of their major, from 
engineers to design technical solutions, 
to social scientists and the humanities 
to address the political, social and 
human dimensions of this problem. ” 
One of the educational methods 
that Dr. T eranes helped to implement 
was the incorporation of “topics of 
climate change into existing classes, 
as a low cost and effective way to 
infuse climate change into the existing 
curriculum. ”
The overall theme of this event each time it is held is the same: Climate 
change and the preservation of the 
planet are increasingly becoming a 
topic of concern for the rising 
generation. SIO and other campus 
organizations and labs aim to get more 
students informed and involved in the 
issues that will come to define much of 
their lives. 
“T o any students reading this, I say 
loudly — get involved with research. 
W e need your help to make the world 
a better place, ” Burkart told the UCSD 
Guardian. NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 31, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
▶ TOWN HALL,  from page 1
▶ RANKING,  from page 1
▶ DATA,  from page 1Burkart: We are Not Far From Producing Biofuels at Larger Scale
UCSD Ranks Behind Only UCLA and UC Berkeley in the UC System
Brunk: Interdisciplinary Approach Should Bring Interesting Findingsnadia link   nlink@ucsd.edu
ma tthew zamudio   m1zamudi@ucsd.edu
ming-ra y liao   m4liao@ucsd.eduLIGHTS & SIRENSLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edu.
Tuesday, Oct. 25
1:21 a.m. Noise Disturbance: Sixth 
College Residence Halls
Loud talking.  
Referred to Student Conduct.
2:22 a.m. Noise Disturbance: The 
Village East, Building 1
Adult male singing loudly.  
Will cooperate.
9:10 p.m. Medical Aid: Pangea 
Parking Structure
Adult male fell by unknown 
means, causing him to hit his head.  
Transported to hospital.
Wednesday, Oct. 26
1:38 a.m. Information: The Village 
West, Building 7
Two separate blue lights out 
on emergency tower phones. 
Information only.
4:10 a.m. Medical Aid: North Mesa 
Apartments
Toddler having difficulty breathing  
Transported to hospital.
6:57 a.m. Welfare Check: Gilman Dr./
La Jolla Village Dr.
Subject with pink blanket.  
Field interview.
9:51 a.m. Citizen Contact: UCSD 
Police Department
Report of disturbance with 
housemate, possible gun involved, 
subjects live off campus.  Checks OK.
9:51 p.m. Citizen Contact: UCSD 
Police Department
Upsetting mass email sent by grad 
student. Report taken.
1:21 p.m. Disturbance - Argument: 
Preuss School
Report of student being disruptive, 
trying to start a fight with another 
student and not following assistant 
principals commands.  Report taken.1:28 p.m. Welfare Check: Lot 705
Juvenile child screaming inside 
vehicle with adult female.  
Checks OK.
9:12 p.m. Drunk in Public: Genesee 
Ave./Campus Point Dr .
Possibly intoxicated adult male; 
subject on corner coming in and out 
of bushes.  Unable to locate.
9:21 p.m. Suspicious Person: Lot 705
Checking on party bus.  Report taken.
Thursday, Oct. 27
2:24 p.m. Medical Aid: Goody’s
Y oung adult female passed out after 
giving blood.  Service provided.
4:30 p.m. Drunk Driving: Matthews 
Ln
Adult male hanging around 
in loading dock area, appears 
intoxicated, blocking street with 
vehicle and driving around in circles.  
Field interview.
4:56 p.m. Medical Aid: Peterson Hall
Adult male fell over while sitting 
on bench, hit head and lost 
consciousness.  
Transported to hospital.
5:03 p.m. Injury: Student Health 
Services
Female fell off skateboard causing 
injuries to face. 
Transported to hospital.
9:45 p.m. Found Narcotics: Geisel 
Library
Found marijuana.  
Marijuana impounded.
11:41 p.m. Injury: Mayer Hall
Two females fell off skateboards and 
hit their heads.  
Transported to hospital.
— JACKY TO
Managing EditorLA JOLLA INSTITUTE
         (Volunteers from Japan)ALLERGY RESEARCH STUDY  
Do you suffer
from ALLERGIES?
We are looking for people that have allergies such as stuffy nose, 
watery eyes, sneezing, or asthma. We are also looking for healthy, 
non-allergic volunteers. You must have lived in Japan for at least 5 
years. The focus of this research study is to learn how seasonal 
pollens from Japan induce allergies. We hope to better understand 
how the immune system causes allergies and why non-allergic 
people don’t get sick.
If eligible, generally in good health, 18-65 years of age, and have 
lived in Japan for at least 5 years, you will be asked to provide a 
blood donation (similar to what is provided at a blood bank). You will 
be compensated $100 for your time and trouble. 
 
Contact our study coordinator at (858) 
752-6979 or email (study@lji.org), and 
mention the Sette-Allergy study to find 
out more information.
Have you lived in JAPAN?
Did you get
HAY FEVER?)""($(
'$  '###
)"'$  $  
)'$#$#
)"$'$# 
)" # "#!#$ "!"#$
)& #$ "( #%#$%#We are conducting a research study to analyze the 
immune system, of healthy people to understand how 
genetic factors affect the function of immune cells.  
"   "& %$"#' 
Qualified participants will be asked to provide 
information regarding their medical history and will 
be compensated up to $300 for their time and 
donating blood.Are you a
( %' % " "$ 
 "$$$( %( "
$##$%(!# %"#$%(
  "$ "$

	 "
#$%( "
HEALTHY PERSON?
FORMER INTERNATIONAL 
CENTER COMPLEX
MONDAY-FRIDAY 10 A.M.- 3:30 P .M  4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 31, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
QUINN PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Outside the headquarters of the 
University of California in Oakland, 
researchers Peter Dreier and Megan 
Bomba sat alongside two officials of 
Teamsters Local 2010. Behind them: 
signs that read “UC: Pay Workers 
Enough to LIVE. ”
The Teamsters local is 
negotiating with the university 
system over clerical and 
administrative support salaries. 
Part of the union’s campaign is to 
persuade outsiders that the UC’s 
hardest-working employees are 
going to bed hungry — and likely 
showing up at work that way. 
Hence the presence of Drier and 
Bomba, researchers at Occidental 
College’s Urban & Environmental 
Studies Institute. The pair had just 
finished Exhibit A in the Teamsters 
campaign, a study that finds a 
remarkable 70 percent of University 
of California clerical and support staff 
are “food insecure” — lacking access 
to food at some point in a year. 
That 70-percent finding is about 
5.5 times the rate of food insecurity 
among all California households 
— more remarkable because UC’s 
Clerical and Allied Services Unit earns 47 percent above the median 
Californian individual income, 
$46,583 compared to $31,587. 
Beneath those extraordinary 
numbers are some elementary 
research problems. Drier and 
Bomba used an abbreviated 
six-question survey to measure 
food security rather than the 
18-question survey the U.S. 
Department of Agriculture 
recommends. According to the 
USDA, the six-question survey is 
“less precise and somewhat less 
reliable than the 18-item measure” 
and “does not measure the most 
severe levels of food insecurity. ” 
The report’s methodology 
is troubling in other ways. The 
authors acknowledge that their 
2,890 respondents volunteered to 
take the survey online. That raises 
the possibility that those who 
responded were overwhelmingly 
(and unscientifically) attracted by 
questions about hunger. That’s called 
“self-selection, ” and there is no 
evidence the researchers accounted 
for a non-random sample.
Translation: The shorter survey 
and self-selection may have biased the results to overreport food insecurity.
The Teamsters have used this 
sort of science to produce political 
findings before. A previous study 
requested by Teamsters Local 2010 
from the Economic Policy Institute 
estimated that 93 percent of UC 
clerical workers do not earn enough 
to cover a basic family budget. The 
study was built on the assumption 
of a one-parent and one-child 
household, though it’s not clear that 
that is representative of UC clerical 
worker households.
Food insecurity is a real problem, 
and the researchers correctly point 
out the negative effects it has on 
well-being. There is no doubt that 
single-parent households face 
significant strain. But it is not clear 
why UC clerical workers suffer 
from food insecurity more than 
five times the average Californian 
while making above the individual 
median income. Studies that 
are methodologically flawed to 
overestimate the problem do a 
disservice to those who are actually 
going hungry.
If the study’s findings are correct, 
they raise a question the researchers did not ask: Why can’t University 
of California support staff afford 
to eat? The answers may be related 
to other trends: The UC system 
has increased the number of high-
paying administrative positions by 
60 percent over the past decade. At 
the same time, UC students have 
seen an increase in tuition of over 
200 percent since 2000. These hikes 
make college less affordable for 
students who, in a separate study, 
report high levels of food insecurity.
At least one UC official said 
the timing of Drier and Bomba’s 
report is suspicious, coming as it 
does during contract negotiations 
with Teamsters Local 2010. “I’m not 
surprised to see these kinds of things 
sort of planted, if you will, to affect 
the collective bargaining process, ” a 
university regent said.
A recent California Policy Center 
study found that UC Berkeley’s pay 
distribution is more unequal than 
Haiti, the world’s most unequal 
country. Many administrators and 
professors make six-figure annual 
salaries — including, ironically, those 
in Cal’s Center for Equitable Growth.Teamsters, Researchers Play Hunger 
Games with UC Contract TalksOp-Ed
ANdREW HERIT AGE // 
CALIFORNIA pOLICY CENTER 
JOURNALISM FELLOWOnce every three decades, 
Pennywise the Dancing Clown, a 
primordial manifestation of evil, 
reemerges to feast on children and 
bask in humanity’s fear. At least, 
that was the premise of Stephen 
King’s classic novel “It, ” published in 
September 1986. How appropriate 
that exactly 30 years later, hundreds 
of menacing clown sightings have 
suddenly come in from people 
around the world?
One can track the “patient zero” 
of this year’s rash of evil clowns to an 
August sighting in Greenville, South 
Carolina. By early October, incidents 
were reported in Canada, UK and 
Australia. The phenomenon grew 
exponentially throughout October, 
eventually reaching nearly every U.S. 
state, nine provinces of Canada, and 
18 countries across Europe, Oceania, 
and the Americas.
 Some have suggested this began as a viral marketing campaign for 
the upcoming film adaptation of 
the novel “It, ” set to be released next 
year. Others think the originators 
were simply dedicated Stephen King 
fans who knew the lore of Pennywise 
and started the prank in homage. 
Regardless of original intent, the 
clown sightings quickly became a 
meme both on the internet and in 
other mass media, spreading the news 
of yet another ridiculous testament to a ridiculous year.
Its memetic fame on the internet 
propelled the clown sightings into 
a global context, practically inviting 
more people to participate. Due to 
the extent of our social networks, 
in a process some call Stand Alone 
Complex — emergent copycat 
behavior with no coordinated 
planning — can create the illusion of 
mass-concerted effort. The world’s 
interconnectedness via media has led enough people to independently dress 
up as evil clowns to the extent that a 
worldwide clown army has formed 
with no centralized structure.
Unfortunately, this army has 
not had solely benign motives. In 
California alone, a clown tried to 
abduct an infant, while others were 
spotted brandishing kitchen knives 
and, in one case, a gun, and several 
schools were disrupted by “clown-
related threats. ” These range from 
elementary schools all the way to 
colleges like Cal State Northridge and 
UC Davis, where a clown harassed 
students with an unidentified weapon, 
according to campus news sources.
Elsewhere in the country, 
altercations between clowns and 
civilians have led to arrests and 
physical fights. Ordinary criminals 
have also taken advantage of the BY THOMAS  FINN // SENIOR  STAFF WRITER
ILLUSTRATION BY ALEX LIANG
Because some hooligans in clown 
clothes took a prank too far and some 
reactionary civilians responded to fear 
with violence, the hysteria will only 
escalate until we reexamine our own 
role in this phenomena and decide how 
best to stop perpetuating it.
“
“
“
“ALBA DIEZ-MANN
adiezmen@ucsd.eduALBA'S WORLDRefugees 
Welcome
The Syrian war began in 2011, 
but the conflict began long ago with 
the Arab Spring. These rebellions 
achieved success in many countries, 
but the government did not yield 
in Syria, beginning the Civil W ar 
that still continues. Two years ago, 
the Islamic State, taking advantage 
of Syria’s political weakness, spread 
across the country. Syrian President 
Bashar al-Assad asked for help 
from the U.S., but was ignored. 
This situation was not the best for 
the country, but it was America’s 
passivity which brought an 
opportunity to jihadists to have even 
more power and weapons.
Since the resulting Syrian W ar 
began, almost five million Syrians 
escaped from their country and 
became refugees. These people are 
doctors, teachers and scientists, even 
if not depicted as such a diverse group 
by the media at large. More so, they are 
not running away because they want 
to improve their economic situation. 
They are escaping from death. 
There are more than 4.5 million 
Syrian refugees in just five countries: 
Turkey, Lebanon, Jordan, Iraq and 
Egypt. These countries have a rent per 
capita of less than $6,000 on average, 
while the USA has $55,000. So if here, 
where the rent per capita is more than 
nine times greater, how many refugees 
is the U.S. welcoming? Unfortunately, 
the answer is no more than 10,000, or 
250 times less than Turkey, according 
to Amnesty International data. 
The United States has always been 
a referent of immigration. If it is the 
land of opportunities, as it claims to 
be, the United States should reach out 
to these refugees. 
Canada is a great example of a 
country that is doing its best. Justin 
Trudeau promised that if he became 
prime minister of Canada, the country 
would accept 25,000 Syrian refugees. 
In April, Canada announced it would 
surpass that number, committed to 
accepting more than 38,000 refugees. 
It has become the country with the 
most refugees relative to the distance 
to Syria. Germany is the only western 
country with more refugees, but its 
distance to Syria is far smaller. 
So what should we do to help 
refugees? First of all, we must ask our 
politicians to take action, to increase 
the number of refugees accepted 
and to help Syrian rebels finish the 
war. In doing so, it is important to be 
informed. Reading about the Syrian 
W ar is crucial. It is necessary to be 
conscious of a problem in order to 
start changing it. 
But students’ involvement can 
easily begin on a local level by 
donating either time or resources 
to the large refugee population in 
El Cajon, as some students have 
already begun to do. It is said that 
the best thing to donate to refugees 
is a car, as it helps tremendously 
with transportation for the sake of 
groceries and children’s education. 
While this is not a realistic 
contribution for students, there are a 
lot of nongovernmental organizations 
working with Syrian refugees. Y ou can                   
donate blankets and clothes in various 
drives held on campus. If you want to 
know more, you can contact Refugee 
Connections, a UCSD student 
organization on campus.
But do not forget the most 
important thing: Do not pretend this 
is not happening. See CLOWNS page 5
Fans of Stephen King’s “It” may have foreseen this past 
month’s dramatic rise in clown-related pranks. What no one 
expected was the dangerous side of the phenomenon.Clown
SeasonOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 31, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
clown scare by disguising themselves 
as clowns during burglaries and 
robberies. In response, students and 
civilians on college campuses in T exas, 
Indiana, Pennsylvania and New Y ork 
have formed “ Anti-Clown Armies” to 
go on “clown hunts, ” wielding weapons 
like baseball bats and even guns.
Not all the clowns have had violent 
intentions, but because some have, 
police and wary civilians react more 
severely across the board despite no 
actual affiliation between violent 
and nonviolent clowns across state 
and country borders. In one case in 
Kentucky, a man shot in the direction 
of a woman walking her dog because 
he mistook her for a clown. Many 
people already deal with the fear of clowns — coulrophobia — or at least 
feel uncomfortable to some degree 
because clowns in masks or heavy 
makeup fall into the “uncanny valley” 
of seeming human enough for us to 
assign motives but too inhuman to 
read these motives.
Professional clowns outside of 
2016’s evil clown surge must now 
bear exacerbated stigma against 
all clowns, an unjustified one that 
impacts real livelihoods. The World 
Clown Association has condemned 
the fad and the “evil clown” trope 
in general for misrepresenting what 
clowns do. McDonald’s has reportedly 
sidelined Ronald McDonald, their 
clown mascot of over 50 years, due 
to the “current climate around clown 
sightings” according to McDonald’s 
spokeswoman Terry Hickey.Because some hooligans in clown 
clothes took a prank too far and some 
reactionary civilians responded to 
fear with violence, the hysteria will 
only escalate until we reexamine our 
own role in this phenomena and 
decide how best to stop perpetuating 
it. Target and other companies have 
scaled back their sales of clown 
costumes and paraphernalia, often at 
the behest of police despite the fact 
that the clown craze has increased 
sales. In all, the Great Clown Scare of 
2016 may have started with harmless 
intent, but via mass media, the trend 
spread rapidly to a massive scale, 
affecting the economy, law and order, 
and people’s lives.▶ CLOWNS from page 4
LIKE US ON
 FACEBOOK
facebook.com/ucsdguardianWORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
Readers Can Contact
THOMAS FINN    TFINN@UCSD.EDU 6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 31, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
OLIVER KEL TON
features@ucsdguardian.org
One-on-One with a Student Veteran at UCSD 
On Transitions, Challenges, & Successes 
Known for its honorable character, the student veteran community at UCSD is comprised 
of some of the most diverse and experienced students on campus. Their status makes them 
unique, but it also comes with a considerable number of challenges. 
The UCSD Guardian sat down with Matthew Muse, former president of the Student Veterans 
Organization, in order to get an inside look at the Student Veterans Resource Center and some of the 
issues the community faces.  
A Difficult Transition: From School to Service and back to School Once More
Muse joined the navy right out of high school in 2006, serving two years in Guam. He came back to 
San Diego in 2008 and served on active duty for three years. Once off active duty, he started going to 
school at Grossmont and joined the reserves, which he is still a part of today. 
“When you transition from high school to college, you get used to never having a break — school 
year round,” Muse told the UCSD Guardian. “But once you’re done with school and you start working 
it’s a different story. Our average work day ranges from 12 to 16 hours. [You] come in at 4:30, 5:00 
in the morning and leave at 6:00 at night, but then when you get off, you’re off. And you don’t talk or 
think about work again. You think, ‘Man, I left school but this sucks.’”
Muse became an avionics technician in the navy and decided to later pursue electrical engineering at 
UCSD. He transferred in 2014. 
“By the time you get here — because very few people leave community college and just start at 
the university, almost all of us are transfers — you think to yourself, ‘OK, calculus. I haven’t done 
calculus in what, eight years?’” Muse said. “You experience this at the community college level too. 
I mean some of them, that’s why they joined the military. Either high school grades were bad or wide 
range of differing family lives. [Still], some got full rides and wanted to join the military anyways. But 
when you leave an academic setting for so long, it’s hard to come back.”
Dealing with Age: Negotiating Age Difference at UCSD
A lot of veterans are much older than the average student on campus — or even the teaching 
assistants. They range from ages 27 to 35, an age difference that comes with its own set of advantages 
and disadvantages. 
“Being older is kind of a catch 22 because you get a better idea of what you want to do in life, 
and you get more mature in the sense that you got a little bit of the partying out of your system,” 
Muse said. “We definitely still party, but you rationally and objectively manage your time better. If 
you were to look at veteran attendance in non-mandatory sessions or discussions it's probably in the 
90th percentile. They’re usually the first ones in the class and normally sit in the front. Their maturity 
allows them to take advantage of their resources, and a lot of great things come out of that.”
At the same time student veterans often feel as though their age can be an impediment at a four-
year university. 
“You often feel like Billy Madison in class since you’re much older than everyone else, and when 
you transfer here, you only have two years,” Muse stated. “It’s tougher to build rapport with your 
professor and get an internship in comparison to someone who’s been here for five years. You lose a 
little bit there.” 
Helping This Transition: Developments
The SVRC has been open for about two years, but most veterans are still quite disconnected from 
one another. According to Muse they’re just starting to build a stronger bond.
“When I was the president, one big thing I tried to get people to do was come in here and utilize the 
amount of student [veterans] we have on campus, which is about 1,000 people,” Musc discussed. “The 
first year it was strictly veterans, [but] then we started to en courage people to bring in study partners 
or groups. Now we’re starting to see people who are not veterans at all. A lot of the time they’re older 
students like us so they just feel like they connect with people here. I think this allowed a lot of the 
veterans to lose the mentality of ‘These civilians, I can’t stand them’ or, ‘These kids, I can’t stand 
them.’ So it’s really been a good thing in terms of transition and socialization, if you will.”
Drawbacks: A Lot of Work Still Needs to be Done.
Although progress has been made in regard to the SVRC connecting student veterans, there are still 
quite a few challenges facing the veteran community at UCSD. Written by Noam Leead // Staff WriterFEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 31, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
Housing
All the other UC campuses allow their veteran students to apply for regular, relatively cheap grad 
housing, but that isn’t the case with UCSD. UCSD provides family housing for those who are married or 
with kids, but veterans who are single have to find a place off campus, which tends to be expensive, or 
choose to live in the Village, which has its own set of problems.   
“Living on campus is an option, and you could go back to sharing a room, but the military is a lot 
like your first couple years of college in regards to the dorms, ” Muse described. “You have to live in the 
highly inspected barracks and you share a bedroom with somebody. So to go back to a room sharing 
thing is a pretty big regression on its own. You’re also 28 and sharing a room with someone who’s 18 or 
19. In the barracks if you had friends who were underage or your roommate was underage, you couldn’t 
have alcohol in there. If you gave it to somebody who was underage or they took it without your 
knowledge it’s still your fault. You were almost always caught, and that was the end of your career. It’s 
an instilled fear that translates over to living on campus as a student veteran. When I was president of 
the Student Veterans Organization, we were trying to get regular grad housing. It hasn’t been completely 
worked out yet, but it’s in the right process.”
Child Care
About half of the student veteran population has children, but the waiting list at the school for child 
care is about two to three years. By the time you get accepted, you’ve already graduated.
“I don’t know how to fix this one, so I rarely bring that one up, but it’s a big deal to a lot of people 
because it’s discouraging if you want to live by the campus,” Muse said. “If your kids are school age, 
that’s great, there’s some great schools here, but if they’re pre-school age, well that’s horrible because 
the most expensive day cares in the city are all here in La Jol la. So then you have to fight traffic to 
drop them off elsewhere. There needs to be some type of access, especially for student veterans with 
disabilities, so that they can be prioritized into these services. “ 
Working with the VA
A lot of student veterans working with the VA Hospital are still getting treatment and have the benefit 
of the V A Hospital being right here on campus. That being said, there are major complications in regards 
to timing. 
“We have everything ranging from veterans who need brain surgery to those injured from 
explosives to a lady who jumped out of a helicopter and broke both of her ankles,” Muse stated. 
“She constantly will make it [to] week seven, week eight, and then the VA will call and say, ‘You 
have surgery next week.’ Their issues with the VA are their own, but they’re at least common 
knowledge enough to say, ‘Well, if I don’t take the one [appointment] that’s next week then I 
don’t get to have this surgery for another year maybe.’ Many [student veterans] end up having to 
drop all their classes or take incompletes.” 
Positive Steps Forward: The SVRC on Accessibility and Diversity
The Student Veterans Organization has worked hard to make more resources accessible for students 
with disabilities at the SVRC. 
“We know that veterans are not statistically self-help seekers,” Muse explained.  “And we 
know that if we bring in counselors, representatives and all the services that the school provides, 
they can and will get help. In addition, whether it’s through a veteran organization general body 
meeting and we bring in financial aid, or through what we call ‘ feast with friendlies’ where we 
bring different departments out and they get free food, we are continuously trying to promote 
more interaction and seek new connections.”
The Student Veterans Organization hopes these connections will result in new resources for the 
SVRC. Already, the SVRC has been able to create a diverse space of comradery and positivity.
“The resource center brings students together and creates coalitions of students,” Muse said. “If 
you were to go into that room you would see people from arts and humanities majors to those in the 
STEM fields. You would think they were all working on homework together because one person will 
stand at the white board trying to figure something out and then  randomly another person will help or 
correct him. You know, we have this giant Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion requirement here, and this 
is a place you really get to see that come to life. I mean there’s not many places where you see every 
race represented, every sexual orientation represented and many different languages represented. It’s 
amazing, you really get a good petri dish of what DEI actually means, and it’s here.”
Illustration by Christina Carlson // UCSD Guardian8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 31, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
: What does Flying Samaritans do?
A : Flying Samaritans is a nonprofit organization, so we have a 
chapter here on campus like a lot of other schools do. Really what 
we do is provide free health care to a community in Ensenada — 
what we call the Chapultepec region of Ensenada. What we do 
is we bring down volunteers, and we bring down providers. The 
providers vary a lot: It could be a physician, it could be a dentist, 
it could be a physician’s assistant. We come and we do consults for 
the people who sign up to take one. We show up, and there’ll be a 
list of people we need to see. We do patient histories, vitals, labs, 
then we leave them to the doctor and we prescribe medications. 
It’s like one-day trips, we’ll leave really early in the morning like 
6:30 and we usually get back sometime like 10 at night.
: What is the history of Flying Samaritans?
A : The club actually was started in 2000 here at UCSD and then 
2001 is when we had our first clinic trip, so it took like a whole 
year to get started. Just as you can imagine, to get people to come 
down with you, to get everything organized, just to come to 
fruition took about a whole year. We’ve been at the same clinic site 
for like 15, 16 years now, since 2001. When it started out, there’s 
like this dramatic story that our old co-president would like to tell 
about how the very first president of Flying Sams had to defend 
herself. This was one of the first chapters that was going to be 
started at a college campus, and Flying Samaritans International 
as an organization was almost all adults — adults who were 
established in careers, and this was something they did on the 
side as community service because it was their interest. I think 
her name was Joy, she wanted to start a chapter at UCSD, and in 
order to do that, she had to sit in front of the board and explain 
her rationale and explain what exactly she would be doing, what 
her course of action was, and these people berated her. They were 
questioning her, like they thought she just wanted to go down 
there so that college students could go drink in Mexico, and she 
had to be like, ‘No, we’re doing real, honest, good work here. We 
are making a difference. ’ And honestly, I don’t understand how 
they thought we would have time for drinking. We go down at 
6:30, we’re eating at like 4, we have to drive straight back so we 
can get back home at a reasonable hour. So there’s no time for 
drinking, and I don’t allow it either way.
: Personally, what got you involved in Flying Samaritans?
A : I guess my interest was that I have Mexican descent: My 
parents are from Mexico, and I know that there’s kinds of 
conversations that go on that my generation — like my cousins, 
my siblings — were sheltered from. So I know that there are 
people in my family and people in my, I guess, circle, my social 
circle, that are heavily impacted by disparities in health, their 
ability to get good healthcare, with their resources and especially 
if they’re undocumented or if they’re living in Mexico. And now 
I know firsthand how broken the system is. I always knew it 
was something that existed, but it wasn’t something that was 
shared with me because people don’t like to talk about it when 
they’re not healthy. People don’t like talking about things they’re 
having issues with to their children. They want you to think that 
everything is good so your life will be good. So I knew that was 
an issue, and I wanted to be a little more educated on that in a 
way that I could help sort of hands-on, because I’m selfish like 
that. I just like to know that there’s something I’m doing that 
can help. It’s just something I knew was an issue, but I wanted 
to be involved so that my education was fully immersive. That’s 
definitely the experience that I have had, which is why I’ve 
stayed so long.: What types of students does Flying Samaritans attract?
A : I would say it’s a really diverse group, even in the leadership 
of our board. We’ll always look around and we’ll say, ‘Wow, we’re 
such a diverse group, ’ because there’s people from all different 
walks of life, and it just attracts all kinds of people. Many speak 
Spanish and come from Latin backgrounds because we have a lot of 
opportunities for members who speak Spanish. So you get priority 
on a trip if you’re a fluent Spanish speaker, if you can translate, if 
you can speak to the patients to take a patient history. Those are the 
people who get picked for trips often, so they get more of a chance 
to come see what we do in our element. So I think once you get 
there to the clinic, you really get invested in the club, so those are the 
people we get who stay around. But we also have a lot of people who 
are just trying to dip their feet in. Like, they don’t know about these 
issues or they’re starting to learn about them, and they’re like, ‘Wow, 
here’s an opportunity for me to see it in real life, ’ and we have all 
kinds of people. So we also like to tell people, don’t feel afraid if you 
don’t speak Spanish; you don’t need to. We can teach you whatever 
phrases you need to know in the car on the way there. Then people 
are not going to expect you to bust into Spanish conversation with 
them. Just be open to the experience.
: So that’s how the language barrier is overcome?
A : We have translators so usually, not every time. When I was a 
clinic coordinator, since I was a fluent Spanish speaker, my job was 
to coordinate flow so I would be making sure the patients were 
getting to each station. I was checking in on the volunteers. The 
clinic coordinator’s purpose is that there’s always somebody there 
waiting to help, so if anybody ever had a question they could call 
me over. The same goes if the clinic coordinator is not necessarily 
fluent. Like our public health team is all Spanish speakers so they can 
pull somebody from that team and be like ‘Do you have a minute? 
This person has a question. ’ Or you can ask one of the translators 
in between. A few of our patients that come regularly are actually 
expats, so they live in Mexico, but they speak complete English. Or 
some of the students too, if they’re the children of the people who 
come visit us at clinics, they take English classes. It’s a really diverse 
experience; every experience is very diverse. Especially if you get a 
chance to communicate, even if it’s a little bit broken, people are so 
willing to help you, like they appreciate the fact that you’re trying 
to speak to them. We have a lot of people who come down, they’re 
like, ‘I really want to practice my Spanish, so don’t speak to me in 
English. ’ So all different levels we welcome.
: What are your most memorable experiences with Flying 
Samaritans?
A : I remember once, there were women who worked there and then 
it’s just kind of memorable for me because I’m very fair-skinned, 
and I don’t appear like someone from my background, so there were 
these two women and we were speaking to one of our public health 
officers, who speaks fluent Spanish, and they asked us something. I 
responded to them and they were surprised that I spoke Spanish, so 
they started asking me a lot of questions like where my family was 
from and what my background was. Then, after that, they asked me 
like why I was interested in doing this, and I got to tell them a little 
bit about why my motivation is still to be here and why I really care 
about being in their community. When we got into that particular 
aspect of the conversation, they were so receptive to that, and they 
were so proud of us, so happy that this experience is something that 
you really take to heart. They were happy that we were bringing 
down all these students so they could see and interact with them 
and the people around them, so that was for me really nice just to 
get a little bit of gratitude but also to feel like I was having a back and 
forth. Like I wasn’t there just providing a service, I was explaining 
why I cared, and they knew that someone cared.Located a mere 40 miles from our university, Baja California is often seen by UCSD students as a place to kick back, relax and go bar 
hopping. A few, however, decide to go to our southern neighbor for a more noble purpose. Called the Flying Samaritans, this diverse 
group of eager-to-help college students and medical professionals visits a clinic serving a community near Ensenada, Mexico once a 
month to provide free supplemental health care to those in need. Co-President Jennifer Corona, an Eleanor Roosevelt College senior, 
sat down with the UCSD Guardian to explain what her organization does and why she’s passionate about its cause.Fl ying Samarit ansWritten  b y  Oliver  Kel ton// 
Fea tures  EditorCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 31, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
ROCKY HORROR
PICTURE SHOW
 PRICE CENTER THEATRETahrirWEEKTHISat UC SAN DIEGO
OCT 31 - NOV 62016POWERED BY THE 
STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER
AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
MON 10.31WED11.02THU10.27  • 8pm
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guardian
Calenda r
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdg uardian.orgTUE11.01
2pm
HUNGRY FOR HEALTHY: VEGAN 
NACHO CHEESE - THE ZONE, PC 
PLAZA
Hosted by the Student Health Services Registered 
Dietitian & Fitlife Registered Dietitian. Come join 
us as we make healthy recipes, hosted by various 
guests and get FREE samples! Materials and 
ingredients are provided. Space is limited, first 
come, first served. Contact: zone@ucsd.edu
3pm
OAXACA GLOBAL SEMINAR INFO 
SESSION - STUDENT CENTER B 2ND 
FLOOR CONFERENCE ROOM 2
Meet Professor Abigail Andrews and learn about 
the courses and excursions for the Migration and 
Globalization in Mexico Global Seminar. We will 
also discuss financial aid, scholarships, and the 
application process. Contact: 
globalseminar@ucsd.edu
6:45pm
UNIVERSITY CENTERS PRESENTS: 
TRIT'N FRIGHT'N FILM FEST - PRICE 
CENTER 
Featured Films: THE LOFT 7:00pm - A Nightmare 
on Elm Street - Cringe in your seat as Freddy 
Kreuger invades his victim's dreams in this Wes 
Craven classic. 9:30pm - The Conjuring - Uncover 
the mysterious presence lurking in the secluded 
farmhouse, before the paranormal investigators 
do. PC THEATRE - 7:00pm - Ghostbusters - Who 
you gunna call? Join Bill Murray and his fellow 
parapsychology professors in their ghostly hunt. 
9:30pm - Beetlejuice - Get sucked into Michael 
Keaton's character as the rambunctious spirit in 
this 1980's tale. SPECIAL PERFORMANCE BY:  
Scott Paulson and the Teeny-Tiny Pit Orchestra - 
Come to The Loft at 6:30pm to catch a silent film 
production the Los Angeles Times is calling "An 
out-of-the-ordinary cinematic experience". 
Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu11am
BODY COMPOSITION - THE ZONE, 
PC PLAZA
Walk in for your free analysis which includes: 
body weight, percentage body fat, total body 
water, and blood pressure. One free assessment 
per quarter is available to registered UCSD 
students. Contact: zone@ucsd.edu
5pm
THE GAME CHANGERS SERIES - 
FROM STUDENT TO STARTUP 
ENTREPRENEUR - DOWNTOWN 
SAN DIEGO PARTNERSHIP, 401 B 
STREET #100 SAN DIEGO, CA 
92101
Collaboratory for Downtown Innovation Presents 
Game Changers Series. From Student to Startup 
Entrepreneur featuring Andy Kieatiwong, founder 
and CEO of Additive Rocket Corporation and 
Steve McCloskey, founder and CEO of NanoVR. 
Join us for the third in a series of Game Changer 
forums featuring Andy Kieatiwong and Steve 
McCloskey, two UC San Diego alumni who have 
made the transition from students to startup 
entrepreneurs. While working in very different 
fields, both have taken what they studied at UC 
San Diego to create new companies in emerging 
technology markets. The two will share real-world 
insights in their respective markets and how they 
are poised to shape our local economy and make 
a global impact. Contact: invent@ucsd.edu
8pm
THE JONES FAMILY SINGERS AT 
ARTPOWER - THE LOFT, PRICE 
CENTER EAST
UCSD STUDENT: $9
The Jones Family Singers  consisting of five 
sisters, two brothers, and their father  have been 
tearing up churches and festivals for over two 
decades. Praised by Rolling Stone and NPR as  a 
must-see act   at South by Southwest in 2014, the 
band delivers high-energy performances that 
showcase the connection between gospel, rock, 
and soul.  Modern practitioners of a long musical 
tradition . . . infusing their joyful, reverent songs 
with elements of vintage soul and R&B.  Wall 
Street Journal. Contact: artpower@ucsd.edu11am
ART & SOUL: DIY CANVAS TOTES - 
THE ZONE, PC PLAZA
Feeling creative? Come decorate your own canvas 
tote :) Workshops are free; all supplies and 
materials provided. Space is limited and is first 
come, first served. Contact: zone@ucsd.edu
1pm
R&R SQUAD - THE ZONE, PC 
PLAZA
The Resources and Relaxation (R&R) Squad is a 
group of trained peer educators from the Health, 
Recreation and Well-being Cluster. The R&R 
Squad provides free 4-5 minute low intensity 
neck, back, shoulders and arm/hand 
rubs.Contact: zone@ucsd.edu
5pm
PATHS TO PHDS: HOW TO 
SUCCESSFULLY APPLY TO 
GRADUATE SCHOOL - ART SPACE 
ROOM, CROSS CULTURAL 
CENTER, PC EAST
Interested in graduate school? The UCSD 
Psychology Department is holding an 
informational panel, "Paths to PhDs", on 
November 1 at 5 PM at the Cross Cultural Center 
in Price Center. Graduate student representatives 
from Experimental Psychology, Clinical 
Psychology, and Neuroscience PhD programs will 
discuss the ins and outs of choosing and 
successfully applying to graduate programs. 
Pizza and refreshments will be served. This panel 
is open to any and all undergraduate students 
that may be interested in pursuing graduate 
studies at the doctoral level. Sponsored by the 
Cross Cultural Center and the UCSD Psi Chi Club.
5pm
GRANADA GLOBAL SEMINAR 
INFO SESSION - LITERATURE 
BUILDING 155 
Meet Professor Robert Cancel and learn about the 
courses and excursions for the Spanish 
Memories, African Hopes through Literature and 
Film Global Seminar. We will also discuss 
financial aid, scholarships, and the application 
process. See Contact: globalseminar@ucsd.edu 
Website: http://globalseminar.ucsd.eduTHU11.03
7:30pm
DUMBFOUNDEAD & MARK 
REDITO WITH DVC - PC 
BALLROOM EAST
Hailing from the battlegrounds, Jonathan Park 
(Dumbfoundead) has built a legendary history in 
the LA hip-hop scene. Dumbfoundead developed 
his skills with an exponential rise to local and 
even national acclaim with everything from rap 
battle videos, to spotlights on shows like Late 
Night with Carson Daly; most recently his curator 
role in K-town's most happening parties: 
Spamneggs alongside Far East Movement & 
Tokimonsta. Mark Redito has one of the most 
positively charged and energetic live sets of any 
electronic artist hailing from LA. He recently 
launched an event series called "Likido" to 
spotlight marginalized music makers. Contact: 
ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu 8588222068
7pm
THIRSTY THURSDAYS AT LA 
JOLLA PLAYHOUSE - LA JOLLA 
PLAYHOUSE
Thirsty Thursdays: Join us before your 
performance for complimentary beer tastings 
from Border X Brewing. Presented by La Jolla 
Playhouse in partnership with James Place. 
Includes two 3-oz beer tastings. Contact: 
gmadamba@ljp.orgFRI11.04
11:30am
FLU CLINICS @ THE ZONE - THE 
ZONE
Come get your flu shot at The Zone! Cost of 
vaccine is FREE for students with SHIP . Costs for 
students without SHIP: Injectable: $15, Intranasal: 
$25, Contact: zone@ucsd.edu
12pm
INTERNATIONAL FRIDAY CAFE - 
GREAT HALL
Each Friday of the academic year, the 
International Center hosts the Friday Cafe where 
the culture and cuisine of a different country is 
featured each week. Meet people from around the 
world, enjoy international music, and explore 
world cultures all while enjoying a delicious meal 
from countries around the world. All students, 
staff, faculty, and community members are 
welcome! Time: 12:00-1:15 PM | Price: $5 per 
plate. Countries: October 28 - Kenya | Sponsor: 
UCSD Retirement. Contact: maie@mail.ucsd.eduSUN11.06
8am
UCSD FENCING - BLADERUNNER 
DAY 2 - RIMAC ARENA
Come out and support your UCSD Fencing team 
at the BladeRunner event! Contact: 
tritonfrontdesk@ucsd.eduSAT11.05
2pm
DE-STRESS WITH 
BIOFEEDBACK - THE ZONE, PC 
PLAZA
Come de-stress with the CAPs Wellness Peers! 
Measure your psychological stressors and learn 
more about what makes you most stressed, how 
it affects your well-being and how to keep your 
stress levels down! Workshops are all free. Space 
is limited and is first come, first served. Hosted 
by the CAPS Wellness Peer Educators. Contact: 
zone@ucsd.edu
10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 31, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDSGuardian Classifieds are FREE for the UC San Diego community.
 www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedscrossword
Across
1. Unbleached color
5. Wild party
9. Out on ____ (2 wds.)
14. Conceited
15. Poker term
16. Hot chocolate
17. Guessed roughly
19. Happening
20. Declare
21. Droops
23. Notable periods
24. Wind dir.
26. Vegetarians’ taboos
28. Finish school
32. Julius ____
36. Lamprey
37. Eastern garment
39. Prickly plants
40. Perk up
43. Skin drawings
45. Pebble
46. Moved quickly
48. First in a series
49. Landed manor
51. Radiates
54. Pigment
56. ____ Gibson of “Braveheart”
57. Mope
60. Mongrel
62. Incline
66. Fertile desert spot
68. Walked leisurely
70. Comic ____ Martin
71. Fork prong
72. Group of crooks
73. Tossed
74. Obstacle
75. Besides thatDown
1. December 24 and 31
2. Hurl
3. Film legend ____ Hayworth
4. Joined
5. Sheep’s sound
6. Industrious insects
7. Cooking container
8. Bushy fence
9. High card
10. Small sofa
11. Froster
12. Da Vinci’s “____ Lisa”
13. Cave dwellers
18. Diner list
22. Cul-de-____
25. Leisure
27. Diplomacy
28. Barnyard fowl
29. Sublets
30. Distribute
31. Sunbathes
33. Hurry
34. Repent
35. Moves upward
38. News story
41. Idle
42. Kill a bill
44. Eden dweller
47. Relate
50. Stately tree
52. Wren’s home
53. Assert
55. Deposes
57. Pillar
58. Vow
59. Consumer
61. Canned fish
63. By mouth
64. Writing utensils
65. Slight advantage
67. Do needlework
69. Opposite of pos.PETS
Pug Puppies for sale - 950.00... - $950 - Pug 
Puppies for sale, we accept all Major credit 
cards thru PayPal if you prefer to use your 
credit card, or we can accept cash, totally up 
to you, below we have written an individual 
Bio of each available puppy to help you 
get acquainted with each puppy. Meeka 
is a beautiful Sable Silver Fawn, she is an 
absolute sweetheart, she is best buddies. 
Listing ID: 310088070 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Two Creamy Persian Cats - 150.00... - $150 
- Hello! I’m moving to an apt with the limita -
tion of two pets, therefore, I have to rehome 
two little creamy kittens. One is a girl (Pic3)
and the other is a boy(Pic 1). They are play -
ful, intelligent, and friendly. The boy has two 
levels of hair (dark and light creamy) and he 
likes to eat. The girl is sooo energetic, her 
eyes are bright! No ve. Listing ID: 310088197 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Teddy Bear male Houston!! - 1300.00... - 
$1300 - Houston is a Chocolate & White 
Teddy Bear male.This Adorable boy has his 
current shots and vet checks and will weigh 
around 9-13lbs. Houston will follow you everywhere you go. He comes with a 1 Year 
Health Guarantee and you can find him in 
San Dieg o,CA. 619-786-7362 or http://www.
puppyavenue.com. Listing ID: 310087920 at 
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
GARAGE SALE
Area Rugs....3 dining chairs (Jamul) - Area 
Rugs, Used! Multiple colors, styles, sizes $5.-
$20. Shop early for best choice. 3 unique 
wood dining chairs, large style, decorative 
trim, white wash $45. Carpets, flooring, deco -
rative, decorations, kitchen, dining, living 
room. Listing ID: 312431402 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
2 Large Containers Have to Move! Big Sale! 
(Chula Vista) - We have two large contain -
ers with many items from a bed set, home 
furniture, full dish sets, Christmas decora -
tions, office supplies ect. some items new 
some items used but like new..MUST SEE! we 
are inside the parking lot of what was the 
Butcher Shop/ Steak House in Chula Vista. 
you will see a gate with GREEN cover. PARK 
OUTSIDE. WE START AT 12pm TILL 4:30pm 
TEXT AND CHECK IF WE R STILL HERE. :) RUNS 
THROUGH SATURDAY! CASH ONLY $ Listing 
ID: 308816628 at ucsdguardian.org/classi -
fieds for more information
Garage Sale Stuff - 6 new sets of bamboo 
cutting boards, 12” X eighteen “ and eight x 
10 (COSTCO is currently selling a smaller set 
of bamboo cutting boards for 14.99), Selling 
these for just $7.00 a set. CHICCO baby stroll -
er in attractive condition, Cost 199.00, selling 
for 20.00, Missing seat pad, LOTS of nick 
nacks, new four x 8 piece of 1/2” drywall cut 
in half $5.00, LOTS OF POTTED PLANTS. AT &T 
NEW white 710 office phone, $10.00, Sports 
Illustrated baseball and football book, two 
racket ball rackets in like-new condition and 
three ball for $5.00, if you wanna come by 
and take a look. Used , working white clean 
WORKING toilet with seat, $20.00, Bread 
machine, got as gift and only used a couple 
times, complete with instructions and recipe 
book, $10.00, a dozen beginning childrens 
picture reading books, show contact details 2’ X 3.5’ thick piece of beveled glass, no 
scratches, chips or cracks, I will open the 
garage on the street if you call and want to 
come by and take a look. PLEASE do not text 
or e mailListing ID: 306503351 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
ROOMMATES
Room for rent University City - $550. Looking 
for a subletter from now till August 31 (dates 
are flexible). Apartment is located in Plamor. 
Will possibly sharing room with 1 other, and 
apartment with 4 total. Some details: Rent: 
$550/month utilities included (as a double, 
$1000 as a single) Price negotiable! Plenty of 
parking. Personal Closet. In house washer/
dryer unit. 1.5 bathrooms. Message me if 
you are interested, want to see pictures, or 
have any questions! Listing ID: 315311764 at 
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
Room for rent Park West - $950. Beautiful 
furnished room for rent with queen size 
bed! Flat screen TV in room with cable TV, 
microwave, fridge, wi-fi, hard wood floorin 
and complementary coffee every morning 
Friendly on site staff with on-site laundry, 
patio and BBQ area. All Utilities included! 
Close to the San Diego Gaslamp Quarter, San 
Diego Zoo, Balboa Park, Westfield Horton 
Plaza, USS Midway Museum, Fish Market 
Restaurant, San Diego Convention Center, 
San Diego Air & Space Museum and Petco 
Park. The Chadwick Manor offers great value, 
location, and hospitality to San Diego locals 
and world travelers alike. Come enjoy an 
inexpensive, yet, classy lodging experi -
ence whether it be short or long term. The 
Chadwick Manor is located at Seventh Ave 
and A St. In the heart of the financial district 
in downtown San Diego close to some of San 
Diegos best and most eclectic restaurants, 
coffee shops, bars. $80 dayly! $250 a week 
or 950 a month! $250 Deposit! Listing ID: 
315311732 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Room for rent Mira Mesa - $600. Room for 
rent Mira Mesa. Listing ID: 315311727 at 
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
La Jolla Dental 
Group  
is looking for two outgoing 
students to help with their 
marketing, preferably one 
male and one female
If interested, please 
email resume to office@
lajolladentalgroup.com SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 31, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
The UCSD women’s volleyball 
team won one and lost one last 
weekend in conference matches. 
The Tritons played against Cal 
Poly Pomona and Cal State San 
Bernardino Friday and Saturday 
night, respectively. The matchups 
culminated in a 3–1 topple 
over the Broncos and a 2–3 fall 
against the 18th-ranked Coyotes. 
The two contests also pushed                             
UCSD to an overall 12–10 record 
and 9–5 in California Collegiate                                              
Athletic Association. 
UCSD 3, CPP 1
Friday night’s game against the 
Broncos was truly a deja vu moment 
for the third-place Tritons. Like their 
first encounter on Oct. 15, UCSD 
again beat CPP 3–11. And similar 
to their first matchup, senior outside 
hitter Meagan Wright led the team 
in kills and digs. Wright finished 
Friday night’s game with 13 kills and 
17 digs, making it her 15th double-
double of the season. 
The four sets tallied scores of 
25–21, 21–25, 25–18 and 25–20 in 
favor of UCSD. Freshman outside 
hitter Jessyca Beksa, sophomore 
outside hitter Morgan Kissick and 
junior middle blocker Rebecca 
Seaberry each contributed with nine 
kills of their own. The Tritons were 
also more efficient in hitting, having 
a .232 (53–181–151) to the Broncos’ 
.171 (57–28–170). 
Cal Poly Pomona’s high error 
count was its downfall. The Broncos 
made an abominable 28 errors 
throughout the game, compared to 
the Tritons’ 18. UCSD 2, CSUSB 3
UCSD’s final home game was a 
heartbreaker as the unranked Tritons 
almost upset the first-place Coyotes. 
Prior to the fourth set, UCSD held a 
2–1 lead. However, San Bernardino 
came back and was able to force a 
fifth set. From there, momentum 
carried the Coyotes to victory and 
cemented their first-place standing 
in the Southern CCAA division.
The Tritons’ defense fell apart 
during the fifth set, allowing the 
Coyotes to score several chunks of 
three and four points. By match 
point, UCSD trailed a staggering 
6–14. A late-effort rally, in which 
the Tritons scored four points in a 
row, was supported by a service ace 
from Beksa and a kill from freshman 
opposite hitter Simone Froley. 
However, their efforts were in vain 
as San Bernardino sealed the game 
with a final kill. 
UCSD was outplayed the entire 
match after summoning a .170 (59–
28–182) to the Coyotes’ .238 (68–23–
189). However, Wright, Seaberry and 
Beksa all managed to post double-
digit kills. Wright again led the team 
with 17 digs and garnered her 16th 
double-double of the season.
The Tritons’ 10th loss of the 
season was their last home game of 
the season. They will travel to Chico 
and Turlock next week before playing 
their final match of the regular 
season at Cal State San Marcos. The 
loss also signified the final career 
home games for Wright and senior 
outside hitter Shaelyn Perez. Disappointing Finish on Senior 
Night for Women’s Volleyball
Despite a two sets to one lead, women’s volleyball 
loses in five sets and looks ahead to playing Cal Poly 
Pomona on the road next Friday after falling to 12-10.WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL
BY  A n t h o n y  T z e n g  
Senior staff writer
Anthony  Tzeng     aitzeng@ucsd.eduPomona, and grabbed two late goals 
to stun the Broncos 1–2 and win      
the title.  
Game 1 vs. San Bernardino 
At Cal State San Bernardino, the 
Tritons came into the match rolling 
on an eight-game win streak, and 
extending the streak to nine looked 
probable. However, their 1–0 lead 
turned into a 1–3 second-half deficit 
for the Tritons in the span of eight 
minutes. Consequently, the streak 
halted and gave UCSD its second 
loss of the season. For Cal State San 
Bernardino, the crucial win kept the 
team’s playoff hopes alive.  
Perhaps not the most entertaining 
match in the first half, the first shot 
of the game took nearly 24 minutes. 
However, the 0–0 match at halftime 
would not let down in the second 
half as a fury of goals made for an 
outstanding finish.  
Redshirt junior forward Malek 
Bashti put the Tritons on the board, 
scoring his third goal of the season in 
the 55th minute after senior forward 
Sam Palano assisted the play for an 
easy finish into the right corner of 
the net.  All looked to be comfortable 
up to that point, but then a penalty 
decision shifted the momentum to the 
home side.
Cal State San Bernardino converted 
the spot kick and leveled the match at 
one apiece in the 75th minute. Seven 
minutes later, the Coyotes gained the 
lead through a deflected pass that 
ended past the keeper. A mere 23 
seconds had passed when Cal State 
San Bernardino put the game to bed 
with a third goal to earn a 3–1 victory 
to upset the Tritons.  With the loss, UCSD found itself 
in a must-win scenario against Cal 
Poly Pomona in Saturday’s match 
to claim the conference title. A loss 
would drop the Tritons to third in 
the conference. The ultimate road test 
was upon the Tritons.
Game 2 vs. Cal Poly Pomona 
UCSD and Cal Poly Pomona 
entered the match with an identical 
8–2–1 conference record, meaning 
the winner of this match determined 
the CCAA conference champion. 
The drama-filled match would be 
historic at the end as the Tritons 
fought themselves back from a 1–0 
deficit with 15 minutes remaining 
in the match to seal their first-ever 
conference title in their 17-year 
history in the CCAA.  
There were plenty of shots in the 
first half; however, neither team could 
break the deadlock with their efforts 
on goal. UCSD held an 8–5 shot 
advantage in the half, including four 
shots on target.  
The Broncos put themselves on 
the board first in the 75th minute as 
they were gifted a penalty decision, 
due to a supposed handball on the 
Tritons off a cross. Junior forward 
Luis Najera Jr. stepped up for Pomona 
and calmly put the ball in the left 
corner for a crucial 1–0 lead.  
At this point, anyone watching 
knew it would be an uphill battle for 
the Tritons to send the match to extra 
time, let alone win. 
Y et, the drama continued in the 
85th minute when senior midfielder 
Justice Duerksen took on a defender 
toward the left side of the 18-yard box 
and, consequently, was brought down. 
Just as he did 10 minutes prior, the 
referee pointed to the spot. With all 
the pressure on Duerksen’s shoulders, he stepped up to take the penalty. He 
shot to his right, but Pomona junior 
goalkeeper Jason Trejos, read the shot 
and saved the goal, though the ball 
bounced nicely to the middle where 
Duerksen assured a 1–1 score.  
Five minutes remained, but surely 
the Tritons would not be able to 
snatch the title in the dying minutes 
of the match. Or would they? 
As if it was written in the stars, in 
the 89th minute the Tritons earned 
a corner, and Duerksen sent the ball 
into the six-yard box. Trejos came 
off his line to punch the ball out; 
however, the ball fell to sophomore 
midfielder Christian Cordell who 
incredibly gave UCSD a 2–1 lead with 
his fifth goal of the season. 
Even then, the drama did not end. 
Pomona found the back of the net off 
a rebound, but the goal did not stand 
as the linesman ruled the goal effort 
offside. It was the Broncos’ last effort 
to send the match to extra time.
Meanwhile, Cordell and the rest 
of the Tritons celebrated the final 
whistle in an incredible match. Most 
importantly, they celebrated the first 
CCAA conference championship in 
the history of the school.
UCSD’s season does not end here, 
however. With the win, the team 
earned the number-one seed in the 
CCAA conference tournament this 
upcoming week, meaning a first-
round bye and automatic bid in the 
semifinals. The Tritons will face the 
winner of the Cal State San Bernardino 
and Chico State matchup on Friday, 
Nov. 4 at 1:30 p.m. Semifinal and 
championship matches are all played 
at Warrior Stadium in Turlock, CA.Soccer Heads to Turlock as the No. 1 Seed on Friday Afternoon
▶ MEN’S SOCCER,  from page 12
Daniel  Hernandez     dah043@ucsd.eduSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
ROSINA GARCIA
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 31, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
What a weekend it turned out 
to be for the UCSD men’s soccer 
team, as it won its first-ever California 
Collegiate Athletic Association 
championship — but, of course, not without some drama. Going into the 
last two matches of the regular season, 
the Tritons did not have much room 
for error if they wanted to clinch 
the conference title. Thursday, UCSD 
blew a 1–0 second-half lead versus 
Cal State San Bernardino and lost 
1–3. The result leveled the team in the standings with preseason favorite Cal 
Poly Pomona, which the Tritons would 
play on Saturday. The winner of that 
game would clinch the title. UCSD 
dug deep in the last five minutes that 
remained, down 1–0 against Cal Poly MEN'S SOCCER
BY  D a n i e l  H e r n a n d e z
Senior staff writerUCSD Comes From 
Behind to Win First 
Regular Season TitleAfter losing out on a chance to clinch the title on Thursday, UCSD secured 
their first ever title in heroic fashion, beating Cal Poly Pomona’s on their turf.
See MEN’S SOCCER , page 11The UCSD women’s soccer 
team won its ninth CCAA 
title with a 1–0 win over Cal 
State Bernardino. They only needed 
to tie to win the crown but held on for the victory at Premier Field. The 
only goal of the game was scored by 
junior defender Aimee Ellis in the 
59th minute. 
It is UCSD’s first CCAA title since the team won it in 2012.
With the win, the Tritons improve 
their record to 15–2 overall, earning 
their 12th-straight victory. UCSD 
was one win away from having a perfect record in CCAA play. The 
Coyotes fell to 8–6–1 overall and 
7–3–1 in league contests. Third 
place Cal State San Bernardino had 
the conference’s second longest win 
streak at six games and was 7–0–1 in 
its last eight games.
The Tritons broke the tie in the 
58th minute when Ellis scored her 
first collegiate goal with a strike 
into the right corner from 15 yards. 
That goal was all the Tritons needed. 
UCSD took 10 shots in the first half 
of the game. The Coyotes’ senior 
goalkeeper Megan Vina made five 
saves to keep the score at zero. Vina 
was the CCAA player of the week 
thanks to two straight shutouts on 
the road. Redshirt senior goalkeeper 
Itzel Gonzalez had one save for the 
Tritons and earned her ninth clean 
sheet and league-leading 13th. 
Cal Poly Pomona
The eighth-ranked Tritons 
scored two goals to overcome a 1–0 
deficit to beat Cal Poly Pomona 
2–1 Saturday at Kellogg Field. The 
win means that the Tritons went 
a perfect 12–0 in conference play. 
It is the first time a team has gone 
undefeated in CCAA play since 
Sonoma State went 14–0 in 1998. 
This also marks the first time in 
UCSD history that the Tritons have 
gone undefeated in CCAA.
The Tritons improved their 
record to a stellar 16–2 with a 
13-game winning streak. Cal Poly 
fell to 7–6–3 overall and 6–4–2 in 
CCAA play. 
At the 16th minute, the Broncos’ 
senior forward Tori Tappero scored a right-footed shot from the penalty 
area that was just out of reach from 
Gonzalez. It was Tappero’s first goal 
of the season. 
The goal ended the Tritons’ long 
shutout streak of nine games and 
851 total minutes, both which were 
the longest since UCSD entered 
Division II in 2000. It was only the 
second goal UCSD gave up against a 
league opponent and the first time it 
was behind in a league match. 
The Tritons finally tied the 
game in the 63rd minute. Junior 
forward Katie O’Laughlin drilled 
a right-footed shot from the right 
which was saved by Bronco junior 
goalkeeper Ricki Ives, but the ball 
fell to sophomore forward Mary 
Reilly, who tapped it in from the 
right for her 10th goal of the season. 
In the 75th, the Tritons were able 
to take the lead when sophomore 
midfielder Summer Bales dropped 
a perfect pass from the right and 
O’Laughlin drilled a shot into the 
left corner for her 15th goal of       
the season. 
Gonzalez had one save for the 
Tritons, and Tappero’s goal was the 
only shot that Cal Poly had in the 
first half. 
UCSD will fly north to Turlock 
to defend their CCAA tournament 
title at Cal State Stanislaus on Friday, 
Nov. 4 as a top seed. The Tritons will 
await the winner between Cal Poly 
Pomona and Cal State Stanislaus. 
Dev Jain    dajain@ucsd.edu
Institution
UCSD
Sonoma State
Cal Poly Pomona
Chico State
Cal State San Bernardino
Cal State LA
Cal State Dominguez Hills
San Francisco State
Cal State San Marcos
Cal State East Bay
Cal State Monterey Bay
Humboldt State
Stanislaus State2016 Men’s Soccer Final Standings
Overall
14–2–2
9–3–5
12–4–2
8–5–3
9–5–1
9–5–3
10–7–1
9–6–2
5–6–4
6–10–2
5–9–2
4–11–1
3–11–4CCAA
9–2–1
8–2–2
8–3–1
7–3–2
7–4–1
7–5
7–5
5–5–2
4–4–4
2–8–2
2–8–2
2–10
1–10–1Points
28
26
25
23
22
21
21
17
16
8
8
6
4
Institution
UCSD
Sonoma State
Cal State San Bernardino
Cal Poly Pomona
Cal State San Marcos
Stanislaus State
Cal State LA
Cal State Dominguez Hills
San Francisco State
Chico State
Cal State East Bay
Humboldt State
Cal State Monterey Bay2016 Women’s Soccer Final Standings
Overall
16–2
12–2–2
8–6–2
7–6–3
7–4–6
12–6
6–8–3
8–9
8–7–3
8–7–2
4–11–3
4–12–2
5–11CCAA
12–0
10–1–1
7–3–2
6–4–2
5–4–3
6–6
5–6–1 
5–7
4–6–2
4–7–1
3–9
2–8–2
2–10Points
36
31
23
20
18
18
16
15
14
13
9
8
61 UCSD
4 Chico State
5 Cal State San BernardinoNov. 4
1:30 P .M.
Nov. 1
6:00 P .M. CHAMPIONSHIP
Nov. 6, 12:30 P .M.
3 Cal Poly PomonaNov. 1
7:00 P .M.Nov. 4
11:00 A.M.2 Sonoma State
6 Cal State LA
1 UCSD
4 Cal Poly Pomona
5 Stanislaus StateNov. 4
7:00 P .M.
Nov. 1
4:30 P .M. CHAMPIONSHIP
Nov. 6, 7:00 P .M.
3 Cal State San BernardinoNov. 1
3:00 P .M.Nov. 4
4:30 A.M.2 Sonoma State
6 Cal State LA
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE /UCSD GUARDIAN
Tritons Finish 
Perfect in CCAA
UCSD compiles the first 
unbeaten season in the 
CCAA since 1998 and 
enters the postseason 
tournament as the 1 seed.
by Dev Jain // Senior Staff WriterWOMEN'S SOCCERUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM. Water Polo
M. Basketball
M. Soccer
W. Basketball
W. Soccer11/3
11/3
11/4
11/4
11/46 PM
7 PM
1:30 PM
6 PM
7 PMAT Santa Clara
AT San Diego State
AT Turlock
AT Stanford
AT Turlock