VOLUME 49, ISSUE 24   THURSDA Y , JANUAR Y 14, 2016  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
SD RESTAURANT 
WEEK 2016
WITH 180 PARTICICPATING 
EATERIES, SAN DIEGO 
RESTAURANT WEEK IS 
THE CULINARY WORLD 
ENCAPSULATED. SIT BACK, 
RELAX AND LET THE GURADIAN 
TAKE YOU ON YOUR NEXT 
GASTRONOMIC ADVENTURE.
UCSD   VER SUS  EL  NINO
MEN'S  BASKETBALLSTRA TEGIES FOR THE EXTREMES
STREAKING TRITONSOPINION,  P AGE 4
SPORTS,  P AGE  12
THURSDAY
H 59 L 46FRIDAY
H 59 L 46
SATURDAY
H 60 L 46SUNDAY
H 60 L 47
FORECAST
VERBATIM
MY GOAL IS TO 
FIGHT HATE WITH 
UNDERSTANDING. 
IT’S HARD TO 
HATE A HUMAN 
YOU CAN 
EMPATHIZE WITH. 
I’M NOT HERE TO CONVERT 
YOU. I’M HERE TO BEFRIEND 
YOU.
- Ayat Amin
MUSLIM IN AMERICA
OPINION , PAGE 4
INSIDE
ATMOSTPHERIC STUDY  ...2
LETTER TO THE EDITOR  ..5
DAVID BOWIE  .................. 8
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU  ..10
FENCING  ....................... 11“WEEKEND,  P AGE  6
ART BY SOPHIA HUANG / GUARDIAN
Former UCSD Research Professor 
and Chief Executive Officer of 
SciberQuest Inc. Homayoun 
Karimabadi was charged on Jan. 7, 
with fraudulently obtaining millions 
of dollars in government grants and 
contracts by making false statements 
to government officials.
Karimabadi is scheduled to enter 
a deferred prosecution agreement on 
Jan. 15 in which he may serve up 
to 20 years in prison and be fined a 
maximum of $250,000. SciberQuest 
and Karimabadi agreed to jointly 
forfeit $180,000.
According to the corporation’s plea 
agreement, Karimabadi applied for 
and received grants from the National Science Foundation, United States Air 
Force and National Aeronautics and 
Space Administration through both 
UCSD and SciberQuest.
Administrative Coordinator 
for the UCSD Office of Research 
Affairs Patrice Lock stated that the 
university provided investigators 
with the information they requested 
but emphasized that UCSD was not 
involved with his fraudulent activities.
“Our understanding is that the case 
focused on Dr. Karimabadi’s lack of 
full and accurate  disclosures on grant 
proposals to various federal agencies 
which were made through his private 
company, SciberQuest, Inc, ” Lock told 
the UCSD Guardian.  “No University 
grants or funds were implicated in 
the activities of Dr. Karimabadi or 
SciberQuest, Inc. The actions by 
the former university researcher were committed through his private 
company, and are not a reflection 
of UC San Diego researchers or our 
research administration processes. ”
Karimabadi failed to disclose all 
of his current and pending grants, 
thereby overstating the time he and 
SciberQuest could devote to said 
projects and failed to mention his full-
time employment at UCSD. From 2005 
to 2013, Karimabadi received over $1.9 
million in salary from SciberQuest due, 
in part, to the fraudulently obtained 
grants and contracts, prosecutors said.
SciberQuest was awarded 22 grants 
worth approximately $6.4 million, 
eight of which were Small Business 
Innovation Research grants. The NASA 
SBIR program funds the research, 
development and demonstration of A.S. President Dominick Suvonnasupa 
announced that A.S. Council will be proposing 
a referendum during the Jan. 20 council meeting 
for UCSD’s advance to NCAA Division I athletic 
standing. Suvonnasupa made the initial announcement 
during last Wednesday’s council meeting.
Suvonnasupa told the UCSD Guardian that a move to 
Division I could help UCSD catch up to other UC campuses.
“We compete with Cal and LA academically in 
a lot fields and best them in some fields, [which is] 
amazing considering we’re much younger than they are, ” 
Suvonnasupa said. “I think what Division I would do is 
let us catch up to them in other ways. ”
Eleanor Roosevelt College junior, student athlete and 
member of the Triton Athletic Council Shane Beamer 
told the Guardian that virtually all student athletes 
would welcome the move.
“We’re pushing the edge of [Division II] and some 
of our sports teams are becoming part of Division I 
leagues, ” Beamer said. “[However], in order to fully 
compete in a Division I level, there’s a need for our 
school to actually obtain Division-I standing. ” 
Beamer continued to explain that since UCSD does 
not give out athletic scholarships as a Division II school, some student athletes are forced to work part-time jobs 
in addition to attending classes and training for sports.
“Student athletes would be eligible for scholarships 
and could therefore put more time toward academics 
because they wouldn’t have to worry about working 
long hours to pay tuition in addition to the demanding 
training schedule, ” Beamer explained.
The last time students voted on a Division-I 
referendum was in 2012 when nearly 60 percent voted 
against the move.  According to Beamer, some of the 
dissenting opinions that the Triton Athletic Council 
has received include concern that the accompanying 
increase in student fees would finance the tuitions 
of student athletes without benefiting the rest of the 
student population. 
However, as Sixth College senior Julia Kirkland 
pointed out, the move to Division I athletics would 
help rally alumni support. Currently, out of all the UC 
campuses, UCSD annually receives one of the lowest 
amounts of alumni donations. 
“The move to Division I would allow our school to 
become more nationally recognized, ” Kirkland told the 
Guardian. “This would gain more support from UCSD 
alumni, which would in turn benefit all aspects of The University of California will 
receive $3.41 billion in state funding 
for the 2016–17 school year — $356 
million more than the previous year — 
according to the budget proposal Gov. 
Jerry Brown announced last Thursday.
The Governor’s Budget Summary 
proposes additional funding for all 
state campuses. Proposition 30, which 
would temporarily increase taxes from 
2012–2018 to fund higher education, 
was passed in 2012, and since then 
the state has worked on an investment 
plan for public universities. The public 
university system has seen an increase 
in funding of about 30 percent during 
2015–16, with funding for the UC 
system increasing by $761 million 
since 2012.
Kate Moser, media specialist 
at the UC Office of the President, 
told the UCSD Guardian that the 
plan includes a stipulation for one-
time funds that will go towards 
deferred maintenance and pension 
funds; UCOP supports Gov. Brown’s 
continued support of education.
“The University of California 
appreciates the continuing support 
for higher education in Gov. Brown’s 
2016–17 budget proposal, ” Moser said. 
“State support is crucial to allowing us 
to keep tuition for California students 
at its current level for six consecutive 
years and ensuring that we maintain 
access, affordability and quality for our 
students. ”
A.S. Vice President of External 
Affairs Krystl Fabella informed the 
Guardian that most of the funds will 
be going towards programs that do not 
affect students.
“ Although there is increased 
funding, it’s important to understand 
where funds have been allocated and 
that it is not exactly being streamlined 
for per-pupil funding, but to cover a 
lot of liabilities and costs, like deferred 
maintenance and pensions, ” Fabella 
said. “There will be no alleviation or 
decrease in attendance costs like we 
would hope for, especially in light of 
UC-wide housing and food insecurity 
crises, but it will help alleviate a lot of 
debt the UC has been running off of. ”
Fabella also stated that an 
important part of the proposed budget 
is the addition of new students. She 
also told the Guardian that UCSD 
itself is unofficially required to increase 
new student enrollment by about 750 
students and the entire UC system is 
expected to increase enrollment by 
10,000 students in the next school year. 
According to Fabella, the increased 
number of students adds an extra 
burden onto the student body.
“A l l  w e  k n o w  r i g h t  n o w  i s  t h a t  
there isn’t the infrastructure to take in 
750 more students at the UC without, A.S. President Announces 
Plans for Division I Athletics
  B Y  MARIA SEBAS    Gov. Brown 
Proposes to  
Increase
UC Funding CALIFORNIA AROUND CAMPUS
UCSDThe new budget proposal 
allocates $3.41 billion to the 
UC system, 4.7 percent more 
than last year’s state budget.
BY   R A A H I M A  S H O A I B
For mer ECE Professor Charged with Grant Fraud
Homayoun Karimabadi faces a maximum of 20 years in prison and $250,000 in fines.UCSD
BY   M I N G - R A Y  L I A OSee DIVISION I , page 3
See BUDGET , page 3 See FRAUD , page 3
Members of ArtPower introduced students to digital media equipment at the Media Production Open House on Tuesday. 
Photo by Kenji Bennett /UCSD Guardian
2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 14, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
AVERAGE CAT By Christina Carlson
CalCopyUCSD@gmail.comLowest
Prices POSTER PRINTINGPRINT/COPY FILES
''	%Fastest
Service
REGISTER ONLINE AT AS.UCSD.EDU/SAFERIDESREGISTRATION
FOR this quarter
IS NOW OPEN!
A.S. Safe Rides allows 
registered undergraduate 
students to get 3 FREE rides 
per quarter. 
Students must register at 
least 24 hours prior to their 
first ride. 
Contact A.s. safe rides: (619) 564 - 7998
MORE INFO AT SOVAC.UCSD.EDU/REGISTERThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. Olga listened to AC/DC growing up. Quinn’s 
first concert was Death Cab for Cutie at 8 with his parents.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Marketing Co-Directors
Peter McInnis, Haley Asturias
Training and Development Manager
Cedric Hyon
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Vincent Pham
Tina Butoiu
Kriti Sarin
Jacky To
Cassia Pollock 
Marcus Thuillier
Allison Kubo
Karly Nisson
Brittney Lu
Olga Golubkova
Jonathan Gao
Megan Lee
Joselynn Ordaz
Sherman Aline
Christina Carlson
Sophia Huang
Jennifer Grundman
Sage Schubert ChristianEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
News Editor
 
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editors
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Sherman Aline, Allison Kubo, Quinn Pieper
Copy Readers
Heejung Lim, Alicia Ho, Lisa Chik
Editorial Assistants
Christian Duarte, Dev Jain, Julie Yip, Naftali Burakovsky, Sam 
Velazquez, Quinn PieperResearchers at Scripps’ Institute 
of Oceanography will participate 
in a series of airborne expeditions 
over the Southern Ocean to better 
gauge the region’s ability to absorb 
atmospheric carbon dioxide this 
month. The O2/N2 Ratio and CO2 
Airborne Southern Ocean study, 
funded by the National Center for 
Atmospheric Research, will be led by 
SIO alumnus Britton Stephens.
Over the course of several flights, 
researchers will collect atmospheric 
samples from the remote Antarctic 
region. Upon the study’s completion, 
ORCAS team member and SIO 
Professor Ralph Keeling will perform 
an analysis of the samples with an 
emphasis on measuring carbon 
dioxide levels.
According to ORCAS team member 
and SIO post-doctoral candidate Eric 
Morgan, carbon dioxide is regularly 
exchanged between the atmosphere 
and the ocean; the group hopes to gain 
insight into this exchange process.
“The point is to better understand the carbon-cycle processes that affect 
CO2 levels in the atmosphere, ” Morgan 
told the UCSD Guardian. “ Aircraft 
measurements afford the opportunity 
to characterize a larger region [of 
water] … we can use this to estimate 
how much CO2 is being released or 
taken up by the ocean. ”
The Southern Ocean is of 
particular interest to Keeling and his 
team because it absorbs carbon at a 
much faster rate than it is released 
due to the mixing of deep and shallow 
water in that region.
“The Southern Ocean is a major 
conduit between the atmosphere and 
the [deep] ocean, ” Keeling told the 
Guardian. “[Elsewhere] the ocean is 
capped with water that isolates the 
deep from the surface. It just sits 
there. In the Southern Ocean the 
waters mix freely. ” 
Because of the interaction between 
the deep and shallow water in the 
Southern Ocean, carbon captured 
in shallower parts can be pushed 
downward to open up space on the 
surface for further CO2 uptake.
The deep ocean — depths greater 
than 1000 meters — serves as a “huge reservoir of carbon” and is capable of 
storing excess CO2 to slow down the 
accumulation of greenhouse gases.
According to a 2015 paper 
released by the National Oceanic 
and Atmospheric Administration, 
the Southern Ocean has absorbed 
approximately 40 percent of all man-
made CO2, despite only making up 29 
percent of the planet’s total ocean area.
But as the amount of CO2 in the 
atmosphere increases, researchers are 
unsure if the process of CO2 uptake 
will maintain its current speed or slow 
down due to oversaturation.
“A s  l e v e l s  o f  C O 2  r i s e  i n  t h e  
atmosphere, the Southern Ocean 
should absorb increasing amounts, 
although this hasn’t always been true 
in the last couple of decades, ” Morgan 
said. “The extent to which this region 
will continue to absorb CO2 from the 
atmosphere in a warming climate is 
an important question. ” 
However, predicting just how the 
Southern Ocean will react to rising 
CO2 levels may be a challenging task.
“[Our understanding of] 
the Southern Ocean comes from 
existing observations — which are sparse, both in space and time 
— and computational numerical 
models, ” Keeling explained. “But 
those models have a lot of flaws … 
they show different things. ”
Because there is not a lot of 
existing data on the Southern Ocean, 
Keeling believes analysts tend 
to extrapolate on whatever small 
patterns they can find to build their 
predictive models.
With the data gathered from 
ORCAS, researchers may be able to 
at least reach a consensus on how to 
model the short-term carbon cycle 
more accurately.
“We’ll be in a position to take 
these models apart and say which 
models are better and which models 
are worse, ” Keeling said. “We won’t 
know what’s going to happen in 100 
years, but we should at least be able 
to get the seasonal changes right. ”
Keeling disclosed that the first 
flight in the ORCAS study takes off 
next week.SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
Researchers to Conduct Aerial Analysis of  Atmosphere
Scripps oceanographers hope the data will help them evaluate the Southern Ocean’s ability to absorb carbon dioxide.
BY   J o s h  L e f l e r
JOSH LEFLER   JLEFLER@ucsd.edu
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGsee more atinnovative technologies by small 
businesses of 500 or fewer employees 
or non-profit organizations.
In one instance with the NSF, 
Karimabadi only disclosed about 
three months of employment per year 
when he had actually committed a 
total of over 19 months of work per 
year to various agencies.
NASA Inspector General Paul 
Martin denounced individuals who 
abuse research programs like SBIR, 
which awarded Karimabadi and 
SciberQuest with grants on eight 
separate occasions.
“Individuals who fraudulently 
obtain federal research funds 
earmarked for small businesses deprive 
others of an opportunity to pursue 
meaningful technological discoveries, ” 
Martin said in the press release.
U.S. Attorney Laura E. Duffy said 
in a federal press release that grant 
fraud is detrimental to places that 
have a large research presence like 
San Diego.
“Federal research funding 
is an important stimulus to local economies, especially in San 
Diego, which has a large research 
university presence, ” Duffy said. 
“Fraud in the award process 
threatens to undermine confidence 
in the continued federal funding of 
research and innovation. ”
George Fuller, director of the 
Center for Astrophysics and Space 
Sciences and physics professor at 
UCSD, indicated to the Guardian 
that the incident is unlikely to have 
a negative impact on the university.
“I don’t think [the grant fraud] 
will have any effect for UCSD, ” Fuller 
said. “ Asides from it being only one 
individual, it seems to have a lot 
more to do with the private company 
he started. ”
At the time he was charged, 
Karimabadi was employed as a 
research professor at UCSD in the 
electrical and computer engineering 
department and was active 
as the group leader of the space 
physics plasma simulation group. 
Karimabadi could not be reached for 
comment by press time.at the least, strategic planning for 
more residential halls, TAs, parking 
spaces and more, ” Fabella added. 
The University of California 
Student Association is advocating 
for an increase in the state’s per-
capita contribution to UC student 
tuition as well as other plans that 
will benefit the student body.
“[Our demands] include full 
funding for the newly-enrolled 
students and to ensure that a student 
fee increase will not shoulder 
the costs, ” Fabella said. “We are 
also demanding fund allocation 
for affordable housing initiatives, 
commitment to support the Global 
Food Initiative, expanding graduate 
enrollment, tier-one mental health 
services, public transportation 
stipends, reduced class sizes, and wages and benefits for on-campus 
service workers. ”
UCSA President Kevin Sabo 
stated that while the UCSA 
appreciates additional funds, the 
budget plan needs to account for 
the influx to the UC system.
“ Another part of the conversation 
that is left out by the governor and 
the university is that you can’t just 
add more undergraduate students 
without any consideration for who’s 
going to teach these students,” 
Sabo stated. “One of the biggest 
glaring omissions in the budget 
plan is a solution for food and 
housing security. Something that 
we’re really concerned about is the 
lack of housing affordability and 
availability as well as access to food. ”
The leaders of UCSA suggested 
that students should get more involved 
in the decision-making process. Sabo pointed out to the Guardian 
that UCSD students in particular are 
in a better position than other UC 
students to make an impact.
“UCSD students are in a really 
unique position in that, at least for 
the next month and a half, your 
assemblymember is the Speaker of 
the Assembly, the most powerful 
officer of the assembly, ” Sabo said, 
“Even after Speaker Atkins leaves...
Marty Block is your Senate Speaker 
[and] he is on the Senate Education 
Committee...San Diego students, 
especially at UCSD, are pretty well-
positioned to have a lot of influence. ”
Gov. Brown will release a revised 
proposal in May and the California 
Legislature must approve the budget 
by July 1.student life. ”
Eleanor Roosevelt College junior 
Andrew Moore also noted that 
national broadcasting would further 
contribute to the UCSD’s fame.
“[Division I standing] would 
enhance the national notoriety 
of the school because we would 
be able to compete with other Division I schools that nationally 
broadcast their games, ” Moore said. 
“This would make it easier for all 
graduates to get jobs after school. ”
Suvonnasupa said that A.S. 
Council wants to remain neutral and 
let students decide by presenting the 
information to them in a clear and 
concise manner. 
“We would love to hear what 
students think, ” Suvonnasupa said. “Senators talk to their constituents 
and we talk to colleges so we get 
a general idea [of what students 
think] but it’s really great to have 
[them] come in to give their input. ”
UCSD Athletics Director Earl 
Edwards will be speaking on the issue 
during next week’s council meeting.NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 14, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
Athletics Director to Speak at Next Week’s A.S Council Meeting
Sabo: San Diego Students Have Unique Access to State LegislatorsKarimabadi Committed to Undisclosed Work
▶ DIVISION I,  from page 1
▶ BUDGET,  from page 1▶ FRAUD,  from page 1
raahima shoaib   MING-RA Y LIAO   MARIA SEBAS   
Follow us on Twitter 
@UCSDGUARDIANSUNDAY, JANUARY 17, 2 016
MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.FREEDOM THROUGH EDUCATION
PARADE &DAY OF SERVICE
UC SAN DIEGO
JOIN UC SAN DIEGO'S VICE CHANCELLOR FOR STUDENT AFFAIRS JUAN GONZALES, STUDENTS, STAFF,
FACULTY AND ALUMNI AS WE MARCH IN THE 36TH ANNUAL SAN DIEGO MARTIN LUTHER KING JR. PARADE 
AND DAY OF SERVICE. THIS CAMPUS TRADITION IS FREE AND OPEN TO ALL.
PARADE
If you have your own transportation, you 
can join UC San Diego at 1:15 pm at the 
Parade Assembly Area, which will be at 
the County Administration Parking Lot 
(1600 Pacific Coast Highway - 
intersection of Grape & Pacific Highway). 
Look for the blue & yellow balloons!Harbor Drive
Embarcadero
2pm  – 4pm
For detailed information, visit mlkday.ucsd.edu DAY OF
SERVICE
This year we are excited to 
announce that we will be 
spending the morning of largest 
homeless services provider.
Breakfast, snacks and lunch 
provided. Transportation to and 
from campus will be available for 
a limited number of UCSD 
community members.Father Joe's Villages
7am – 4pmMeet at the Triton Tour Center 
in Town Square at NOONCEDAR ST.GRAPE ST.HAWTHORN ST.
ASH ST.
BROADWAY
G STREET
HARBOR DRIVEPARADE ROUTE MARTIN LUTHER KING JR. 
PARADE ROUTE STAGING AREALooking for the 
New Business Column?
Now posted every Wednesday 
night, after the A.S. Council 
meeting, online.
ucsdguardian.org4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 14, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CASSIA  POLLOCK
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Ayat   A m i n
A6AMIN@ucsd.eduMuslim  in  america
El Nino Casually
Strolls into ClassWith the recent rise of Daesh, 
more commonly known as ISIS, it’s 
hard to be an American and not have 
an opinion about Islam and Muslims. 
If you are anything like my friends, 
you have many questions and nobody 
to ask. As Huffington Post points out, 
only a quarter of Americans have a 
Muslim friend. 
Here’s where I come in. My 
name is Ayat and I’m going to try 
and answer all your questions about 
Islam, Muslims and Middle Eastern 
politics as best I can. My father is a 
devout Muslim, while my mother 
is a wildcard. I do not identify as a 
practicing Muslim, but I am part of 
the Muslim community. My aim is 
to promote better understanding of 
Islam and the Middle East overall.
Since the emergence of Daesh, 
the hatred and fear of Muslims in 
America has worsened. Hate crimes 
against Muslims in America have 
risen threefold, specifically since the 
San Bernardino attacks, according 
to NBC news. These aren’t abstract 
crimes happening far away. They are 
happening right here in San Diego. 
On Nov. 20, a Muslim student at 
San Diego State was assaulted in the 
school parking lot when a man pulled 
off her headscarf while calling her 
a terrorist, reported the San Diego 
Union-Tribune. 
On Nov. 13, posters appeared 
at multiple locations on UCSD’s 
campus calling the Muslim Student 
Association and Students for Justice 
in Palestine “terrorists, ” according 
to a student’s Facebook post. These 
incidents occurred even before San 
Bernardino, which resulted in an 
increasingly unsafe environment for 
Muslims in America. Muslim students 
explained in a co-written letter that 
prior to the posters, Muslim students 
were still subjected to harassment 
from other groups and bullied via 
social media, where their pictures 
are frequently taken without consent, 
posted online and labeled “terrorists. ”
Defaced posters are only the tip 
of the iceberg. My family and friends 
are afraid of retribution for being 
Muslim. However, it’s important to 
note that combating Islamophobia 
would be beneficial to more than 
just Muslims. Dalia Mogahed, who 
works for the Institute for Social 
Policy and Understanding, went 
on the Jan. 7 episode of “The Daily 
Show with Trevor Noah” explaining 
how the same politicians that 
are against Muslims also support 
policies that harm blacks, Latinos, 
women, labor movements and gays. 
Donald Trump is a clear example 
of this. On its website, ISPU has 
a time-worthy data visualization 
supporting this statement. In addition, 
hate crimes against Muslims often 
target “Muslim-looking or Arab-
looking” non-Muslims as well, 
such as Sikhs, Latinos and Arabs of 
Christian and Jewish faiths. This in 
itself demonstrates a deeper level of 
misunderstanding regarding the very 
diverse communities of Muslims. 
Donald Trump’s recent comments 
regarding the banning of Muslims 
entering the United States promotes a 
deeply problematic intolerance. While 
many oppose Trump’s remarks, some 
have echoed his prejudice. My goal 
is to fight hate with understanding. 
It’s hard to hate a human you can 
empathize with. I’m not here to 
convert you. I’m here to befriend you.Chargers President Dean 
Spanos is playing hard-to-get 
with the people of San Diego, but 
this flirtation with the Bolts isn’t 
enough to get people out of bed 
in the morning. Especially UCSD 
students who probably have their 
more successful home teams to root 
for. The past few days have put the 
Chargers in limbo. The resolution of 
whether they leave for Los Angeles 
or not is that the team will stay in 
San Diego for another year. Maybe.
When Roger Goodell, NFL 
Commissioner, hosted a press 
conference this past Tuesday with 
Spanos regarding the state of the 
Chargers, a San Diego Union-Tribune 
reporter asked Spanos if he “expected 
to try to remain in San Diego. ” 
Spanos, the suave businessman 
he must be to own the Chargers 
and have his family fund facilities 
at UCSD, made this statement of 
confidence: “ ... I’m going to look at all 
our options. I’m going to take a little 
bit of time here. But, you know, we do 
have some options. ”
And here we have it: NFL teams 
play little mind game with the 
city as to whether or not they will 
stay. Professional sports teams can 
build civic pride and put a city on 
a map, but those shouldn’t be the 
only reason a community should back and finance construction of 
new stadiums. In fact, stadiums are 
more detrimental financially than 
they are beneficial for the ethos of a 
city. According to a video segment 
from “Last Week Tonight with John 
Oliver, ” stadiums are funded with 
public money and keep the profits. 
After all, these teams are owned by 
individuals. Furthermore, teams 
tend to receive their property free 
from rent and taxes. 
Last September, Mayor Kevin 
Faulconer and Supervisor Ron 
Roberts made a $1.1 billion 
proposal for a new stadium in 
Mission Valley. The stadium would 
entail $350 million of public money, 
the rest coming from the NFL and 
Chargers themselves. That $350 
million would not be returned to 
San Diego taxpayers — in fact, 
taxpayers would be paying even 
more if they wanted to attend 
Chargers games.
Daniel Stewart, president of the 
American Institutes of Architects, 
stated that a proposal for a new 
stadium could cost the public $10 
million per year for 10 years in lost 
tax revenue. Add that $100 million 
to the proposed initial $350 and 
that’s $450 million that could have 
actually gone toward public goods 
that the public actually wants.Educational facilities are a 
good example of that. Stewart 
explains that, instead of building 
a new stadium in the Chargers’ 
proposed downtown East Village 
site, the land could be used for 
education and economic clusters 
(i.e., living space). Education 
and economic clusters are “sticky 
capital, ” or investments that don’t 
move despite exogenous changes. 
Educational institutions, like 
universities, have been proven 
economic powerhouses. Just look at 
UCSD, San Diego’s largest employer. 
Institutions such as universities do 
not benefit the Chargers, which is a 
business looking for profit.
The Chargers have been in San 
Diego since 1961. There’s a legacy, 
sure. But UCSD was established 
in 1960 and San Diego State in 
1897. There’s no reason why San 
Diego can’t be known for its world-
renowned universities or the beaches 
that have been around even longer. 
Local San Diego artist 
C-SICCNESS rapped “San Diego 
makin’ money / So put it back in 
our city” in his Chargers anthem 
“Save Our Bolts. ” San Diego should 
absolutely reinvest in our city, but 
in something that will return to it 
opulence in more ways than a win, 
loss or tie.Chargers’ Departure Would Allow City to Spend Public Funds on Education
Vincent Pham
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Tina Butoiu
MANAGING EDITOR  
Cassia Pollock
OPINION EDITOR
Kriti Sarin
NEWS EDITOR
Jacky To
ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITOR
Allison Kubo
FEATURES EDITOR
Olga Golubkova
CO-LIFESTYLE EDITOREDITORIAL  BOARD
The UCSD Guardian is published twice a week at the 
University of California at San Diego. Contents © 
2015. Views expressed herein represent the majority 
vote of the editorial board and are not necessarily those 
of the UC Board of Regents, the ASUCSD or the 
members of the Guardian staff. Last week’s storm left many out in the cold — literally. 
Despite news of the impending storm and continued 
hopes for an El Nino season to quench the drought, 
the UCSD administration left us unprepared. Lecture halls 
flooded up to four inches, according to NBC7, leading to the 
now viral image of Professor Kenny Barrese teaching vector 
calculus while standing in a puddle of water. Many saw this 
as an example of dedication, but the underlying issue is 
that UCSD facilities lack necessary safety measures for the 
upcoming storms. Even the Bookstore ran out of umbrellas, 
forcing people to use UCSD Guardian newspapers as flimsy 
rain covers. The apocalypse, the El Nino of the century, is 
here to drown us all. 
Five years in a drought and nine since a strong El Nino 
season and we’ve forgotten what it means. The term El 
Nino does not refer to a storm but rather a warming trend 
in the equatorial part of the Pacific Ocean. This generally 
causes increased precipitation in the southwest, particularly 
California, and this warming is followed by a cooling trend 
called La Nina, which forms a cyclic pattern of temperature 
change. El Nino weather patterns are slated to last through 
the winter months. 
A severe El Nino event in 1983 caused $1.8 billion in 
damage across the state. Previous events in 1983 and 1997 
had an average of two degrees of warming above average 
but some projections set this year at three degrees above 
the observed normal. Although there is debate over the magnitude this El Nino season, it is clear that we are gearing 
up for a wet one. The Climate Prediction Center released a 
report in November calling this El Nino event “strong” and 
“mature” — like an older sibling who occasionally dunks you 
in the pool. 
With that knowledge, the Guardian Editorial Board implores 
the university to begin extensive preparation. Last week we 
had a taste of water for parched lips, but flooding in classrooms 
and parking lots loses novelty when car engines are ruined and 
lecture halls have lasting water damage. Next it might be flooding 
in dorms or on-campus apartments, many of which in Warren 
College and Sixth College lie in depressions or lower areas with 
little drainage. Just because we aren’t used to severe rain doesn’t 
mean that we should rely on Noah to build an ark for our school. 
This doesn’t happen to other schools in areas that get 10 times 
the amount of rain, such as in areas of Washington that get 100 
inches of rain a year.
Our drainage systems, which worked for 2014 when we 
had 5.06 inches of rain (49 percent of the average), won’t hold 
up for this year when we could number far above average. In 
1997 in the Los Angeles area, seasonal rainfall was 110 percent 
above normal.
To begin, the university should water-proof and seal doors 
where possible. As for the underground levels of parking lots, 
there needs to be efficient draining systems to reduce the 
accumulation of water. 
Outside, in the various banks of dirt and eucalyptus trees, 
See EL NINO, page 5After a week of fire alarms, flooded classrooms, clogged stormdrains 
and storm warnings, it is clear that UCSD must actively work to 
prepare its facilities and students for future rainfall.
ILLUSTRA TION   B Y  DA VID  JUAREZWe Must
Understand
and Combat
IslamophobiaOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 14, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
sandbags or more permanent 
solutions should be installed to 
funnel water to appropriate drainage 
areas. That way we can establish 
channels of water away from walking 
areas or rooms. 
As for our warning systems, the 
Triton Alert works well to warn 
students of hazards. However the 
constant blaring of the fire alarm 
after the tornado warning last week 
is not acceptable. We should be 
able to handle possible situations 
with calm preparedness, not the 
haphazard panic that exhibited 
itself across campus last week. The Editorial Board urges the 
university to address campus 
emergency preparedness by 
educating students with a routine 
protocol, which allows them to 
calmly and safely respond to severe 
storms. Instead of remaining 
silent, the Department of Campus 
Emergencies and Safety should take 
this time to teach students proper 
disaster protocol while encouraging 
individual preparedness. 
While the department’s website 
is exhaustive, few students or faculty 
know about emergency procedures. 
The site includes information on 
possible tornados and earthquakes, 
but lacks information about flash floods or mudslides or information 
about where they could occur on 
campus. Flash floods can occur 
almost anywhere after a few days of 
consecutive rain.
Students should also be prepared 
with general essentials, like shoes that 
aren’t flip flops and maybe an umbrella 
if they want to be dry. Despite the fact 
that San Diego normally doesn’t have 
water, the sheer lack of preparation on 
this campus is astounding.
Luckily, there has not been any 
major flooding so far and even a 
monstrous El Nino rainstorm doesn’t 
signal the end of the world, but it’s 
likely to be a wet, stormy quarter. 
Better buy an umbrella and boots. 
jane’s   ambiti on:
To transform lives.
Her game plan: a Master of Arts 
in Education  from Pepperdine.Pepperdine is committed to the highest standards of 
academic excellence and Christian values.
To start your transformation, get in touch today.  
310.568.5600 or 866.503.5467  
gsep-recruitment@pepperdine.edu • gsep.pepperdine.edu
WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
UCSD Needs to Create a Routine Protocol for Handling El Nino WeatherLETTER  TO  THE  EDITOR
I recently read the UCSD 
Guardian’s Nov. 2 article, “Scholars 
Discus Climate Change Solutions 
at Summit, ” and was encouraged 
to find that the University of 
California takes climate change so 
seriously. UCSD’s Sustainability 
Manager Sara McKinstry noted 
how students had more power than 
they thought. We really can change 
the world, one step at a time.
Can you guess the biggest 
contributor to climate change? 
I was sure that it was the 
transportation industry and was 
baffled to discover that I was 
wrong. While transportation is 
responsible for 13 percent of global 
greenhouse gas emissions, animal 
agriculture is responsible for a 
whopping 18 percent, as announced 
by the UN back in 2006.
We can take steps on campus 
to help remedy this. UCSD Dining 
already does a wonderful job of 
bringing in other initiatives to 
reduce our impact on the planet, 
from perma-ware china (to reduce 
waste) to slowly eliminating the 
sale of bottled water by offering 
hydration stations to refill water 
bottles. But what if we could make 
a single alteration to our food that 
saved one million grams of carbon 
emissions, every single year?
Colleges including UC Berkeley, University of Connecticut, 
University of Wisconsin and 
Yale have partnered with a food 
technology start-up based in 
Silicon Valley called Hampton 
Creek. Hampton Creek’s mission is 
to bring healthier, more sustainable 
and affordable food to everyone, 
everywhere.
By producing versions of 
common food products that are 
inherently better for the planet 
(specifically Just Mayo and Just 
Cookies), Hampton Creek has 
prevented billions of grams of 
carbon emissions, while saving 
massive amounts of water and land 
that conventional food production 
would otherwise have required. 
What’s the key? Pea protein and 
sorghum flour.
Removing the link to animal 
agriculture.
It’s time we at UCSD join 
the masses and eat our way to a 
sustainable future. We are lucky to 
have a dining services department 
that is extremely receptive to 
student feedback, so please join 
me: On your next visit, request 
Just Mayo and Just Cookies in your 
dining hall!
- Tatiana Freiin von R heinbaben
Revelle College, Senior To the editor: 
▶ EL NINO from page 4
SEND YOUR LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG6     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 14, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
Located in the corner of Gaslamp Quarter, the Burro brings the best of 
both Baja Californian and Mexican cuisines, specializing in street-style 
corn dishes, grilled fish, and bottomless mimosa cocktails among other 
quality selections. From housing eccentric coastal vibes to its location 
just steps from the San Diego Padres home stadium, Blind Burro not 
only cements its place as a convenient hangout, but as an escape for 
those looking for casual bites, drinks, and live music at its outdoor bar. 
With incredible San Diego weather, back-to-back bars, and a vibrant city 
atmosphere especially at night, the Burro surely can’t be missed.LOCATION:
639 J Street
$ $MEXICO:  BLIND BURRO
By Ian Le Tran   Contributing WriterAfter living in Italy for over a year, my tolerance for mediocre 
Italian food is next to none. Luckily, San Diego has Little 
Italy, which offers a plethora of authentic Italian restaurants, like 
Monello. Serving the best quality of everything — fresh pasta, 
imported olive oil, the whole nine yards — Monello can be a bit 
pricey, even for Restaurant Week. It’s recommend to opt for the 
$20 lunch special, which offers an appetizer, main course and 
dessert. Suggested dishes: Tortino di Cavolfiore Viola (purple 
cauliflower souffle with raspa dura cheese sauce) and the Gnocchi 
di Zucca (homemade butternut squash dumplings).LOCATION:
750 West Fir Street
$ $It al y:  MONELLO
By Shelby Newallis   
Senior Staff Writer
Nestled in the vibrant neighborhood of Little Italy is Indigo Grill, a 
contemporary Latin restaurant with an interior as eclectic as their 
menu. Although their dishes are rooted in Latin American culture, 
like the pollo anticucho board, a poster child of Peruvian and Chilean 
street food, Indigo Grill has beautifully married Latin classics with an 
Asian zest, evident in their delectable tempura Mahi Mahi cheek tacos 
and piquant salmon belly tiradito ceviche. They even take on familiar 
Asian bites like bibimbap and kung pao calamari. Pair your dish with 
something from their equally bold drink menu for a harmonious and 
satisfying experience.LOCATION:
1536 India Street
$ $peru:  INDIGO GRILL
By Maria Manalang   Staff WriterIf you have been itching to put on that million-dollar outfit you purchased two years ago 
but never had a chance to wear, lunch at The Westgate Room, located inside the Westgate 
Hotel,  is your time to shine. For SDRW , the executive chef Fabrice Hardel has prepared a 
two-course meal with a choice of two appetizers and a meat or seafood entree. Chandeliers, 
gold-plated columns and Victorian chic at a four-star hotel modeled after the Palace of 
Versailles in France is an experience you can rarely get for only twenty dollars.LOCATION:
1055 2nd Avenue
$ $ $France:  THE WESTGATE HOTEL
By Olga Golubkova  Lifestyle Co-Editor
Home to tango and muse for a Madonna ballad, Argentina never fails when 
manifesting cultural archetypes. So it’s no surprise their culinary feats are 
just as iconic. At Puerto La Boca, Argentine classics stand out boldly among the 
ristorantes and espresso bars of Little Italy, emphatically demanding to be seen 
and tasted. Traditional fare, from empanadas and chorizo to regional favorites 
like molleja sweet bread sauteed in a jerez wine reduction and freshly marinated 
pulpo, or octopus, are just opening acts to the prized possession of Argentine 
cuisine — el bistec. So if you ever find yourself a little displaced in Little Italy, 
Puerto La Boca might just give your palate a new home.LOCATION:
2060 India Street
$ $ $Argentina:  PUERTA LA BOCA
By Brittney Lu    Lifestyle Co-EditorImagine an elegant outdoor venue inspired by Spanish haciendas, romantically lit 
with a fireplace, the moon and the stars. Add delicious modern Spanish foods: duck 
enchiladas, blackened salmon tacos, shrimp and scallop ceviche. Then plant this dream 
of a restaurant conveniently near the UCSD campus and you have Mustangs & Burros, 
a La Jolla hidden gem. Take a break from studying and warm yourself up with their 
truffle cauliflower soup or make it your next Friday night venue and enjoy their meatier 
entrees, like the bone-in pork chop or the cumin-crusted skirt steak. LOCATION:
9700 N. Torrey Pines Rd
$ $ sp ain:  MUSTANGS & BURROS
By Maria Manalang  Staff Writer
Rest aurant
Week 2016
Apollonia has a relatively modest exterior that’s easily overlooked by the average UCSD 
student looking for cheap sushi and sake bombs at its better-known neighbor, Sushi Ki. If 
you’re looking to try a different place, but don’t want to go too far, Apollonia is a great option. 
Located in the Costa Verde Center, it’s accessible by bus, car or walking, if you’re ambitious. 
The restaurant week offerings are a good value and include three courses with Mediterranean 
offerings like spanakopita, kebab and a popular dessert, galaktoboureko, phyllo dough with a 
custard filling.LOCATION:
8650 Genesee Av
$ $greece:  APOLLONIA GREEK BISTRO
By Shelby Newallis   Senior Staff Writer
Bandar’s sleek interior design is the interface of modernity, especially of the Persian 
culture it represents. For connoisseurs of feng shui, a coronal divide separates the 
restaurant into two distinct atmospheres. A sophisticated downtown palette of scarlet 
and oak sets a dim nightclub vibe for its bar; sharing the same ecology, its restaurant 
is a contemporary black-and-white draped in beige textiles and romantic candlelight. 
This tonal juxtaposition, while seemingly jarring, showcases Iran’s contemporaneity 
in the global sphere — whether it’s the welcoming neon from the bar or the 
fashionable cloth that droops from the ceiling. Bandar specializes in kebabs, whether 
they’re curated with fresh filet mignon, lamb or chicken.LOCATION:
845 4th Avenue
$ $ iran:  BANDAR
By Christian Gella  Senior Staff Writer
Taste of Thai is one of Hillcrest’s classics. Surprisingly enough, open until 11 p.m. it is one of 
the few non-bar eateries ready to cater before or after your night out. It is a perfect place to 
get your juices flowing late at night with its extensive variety of dishes and affordability during 
Restaurant Week. With a filling two-course $10 lunch special and three-course $20 dinner 
special, it will surely satisfy your craving for a healthy yet familiar Thai meal.LOCATION:
15770 San Andres Drive
$ $Thailand:  TASTE OF THAI
By Olga Golubkova  Lifestyle Co-EditorILLUSTRATION BY SOPHIA HUANGWEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 14, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
Rest aurant 
Week 2016
Located in a rapidly developing district of San 
Diego, Caffe Primo is not, in fact, San Diego’s 
very own — inspired by European simple style and 
ambience, it first came to Los Angeles and only later 
extended its a la Italiana business operations in the San 
Diego area. The cafe does not pretend to be something 
it is not — its interior is just as straightforward as its 
food. Metal chairs, wooden tables and an outdoors 
seating area: Is there anything else you need 
to serve food to the people? Salads, lasagna, 
pasta and pizza: Are there any other dishes 
you have to serve at an Italian eatery? Caffe 
Primo’s affirmative answer to these rhetorical 
questions is no, and that is what allows this 
restaurant to bring familiar, good-quality 
Italian cuisine for a truly democratic price. 
Caffe Primo’s San Diego Restaurant Week prix-fixe 
menu lunch costs as much as you would like to pay for 
it — nothing more and nothing less, leaving you with 
a feeling of overall satisfaction. Giving this modest 
place a try over SDRW may be turn out to be a 
brilliant idea, as Caffe Primo successfully proves 
that sometimes no surprises is a good surprise. #"55-&0'5)&
3&45"63"/54
San Diego Restaurant Week is a perfect example of a local initiative that became a city’s 
tradition. Supporting the local economy, it brings together 180 restaurants ready to serve lunch 
and dinner to each and everyone. The price range of SDRW meals is also wide enough to give 
even students some options. While the majority of one-price menus are beyond the college 
understanding of “affordable”, one can definitely find some solid lunch options under $20. So 
why pay more to participate in this San Diego ritual? For the poor and the posh we looked at 
one of the cheapest options of San Diego Restaurant Week worthy of attention, lunch at Caffe 
Primo, and one of the priciest offerings, dinner at Searsucker. 
Caffe 
PrimoSear-
sucker
On the other hand, for a pretty penny, wine (if you’re of age) and dine 
your way into a gilded meal fit for Queen Elizabeth herself. Nes tled in 
the crux of Gaslamp, Searsucker is every college student’s 
nightmare dressed like a daydream. With lofty ceilings, 
Anthropologie-esque wooden fixtures, perfectly 
mismatched furnishings and plush seating all 
illuminated in the glow of strategically placed rustic 
chandeliers, Searsucker draws you in for the ‘gram 
alone. But this picture perfect eatery comes at a 
hefty cost, even during SDRW. Ranging from forty 
to fifty dollars, the prix-fixe dining experience boasts 
a two or three course menu crafted with artisanal and 
often unpronounceable ingredients. While you may begin 
internally hyperventilating and looking for the nearest 
Chipotle, the gastronomical fare at Searsucker appears to 
be well worth taking out a federal loan to pay off dinner. 
With items like seared halibut paired with fennel reduced 
in a beurre blanc, beef tartare crowned with a raw egg or 
farrotto dusted with pecorino and baby kale, Searsucker 
doesn’t just skirt around Americana classics, but reinvents 
them with a European flair. Retrospectively, where it 
lacks in fiscal consciousness and student accessibility, it 
makes up for in sensory triumph and palatal pleasure. 
Nearby NibblesSCORE
3.9 3.9
East Village GaslampWritten by Olga Golubkova & Brittney Lu // Lifesyle Co-Editors
Italian/American American
Lunch Dinner
$50 $10:&-13"5*/(
-0$"5*0/
5:1&0''00%
5:1&0'.&"-
13*$&
Maximizing the “beach town”-vibe is Pacifica del Mar’s specialty; one glance out the window 
allows one to watch the moonlight slide over the ocean’s canvas. With award-winning seafood, 
this ocean-side restaurant is a short bus ride North — just take Oceanside 101. 
With live music Sundays, state of the art cocktails, and a flavorful menu, Beaumont’s won’t 
disappoint those seeking for atmospheric quality. A hidden gem in the Bird Rock seaside 
community and an award-winning restaurant, Beaumont’s eatery has served locals for years.
The creme de la creme of Japanese cuisine in Del Mar, Shimbashi Izakaya, satiates any sushi 
or sashimi craving with fresh and quality ingredients. Many of their dishes are delightfully 
authentic with just the perfect amount of gusto, like their Hokkai Roll, ochazuke and thin-
sliced seared beef with yuzu ponzu. 
Use Restaurant Week as motivation to visit Herringbone, one of La Jolla’s culinary staples. With 
its truly impressive ethereal interior and “daily happenings, ” it is an ideal place to try meat and 
seafood any time of the day. Just don’t think of the SDRW menu as a discounted offer; you will 
spend just as much any other week of the year.LOCATION:
1555 Camino Del Mar
LOCATION:
5662 La Jolla Blvd
LOCATION:
1555 Camino Del Mar
LOCATION:
7837 Herschel Avenue$ $ $
$ $ 
$ $ $
$ $ $PACIFICA DEL MAR
BEAUMONT’S 
SHIMBASHI IZAKAYA
HERRINGBONEBy Christian Gella   Senior Staff Writer
By Ian Le Tran   Contributing Writer
By Maria Manalang   Staff Writer
By Olga Golubkova    Lifestyle Co-Editor
PHOTO BY JONATHAN GAO /UCSD GUARDIANILLUSTRATION BY ALEX LIANG8     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 14, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  WEEKEND
JUDGING WILL TAKE PLACE ON
JANUARY 20th & 21st.
Each department will be 
notified the date when
judging will take place. 
The winners will be notified by email on 
January 22nd!
The first TEN departments 
who register will receive aSupport Triton Spirit Week 
by decorating your office to 
win up to $250 in prizes for your department.
FREE DECORATION KIT!
DEADLINE IS THURS, JAN 14
CONTEST 2 016TRITON SPIRIT WEEK
SHOW YOUR SPIRIT UCSD!
JAN 19-JAN 22
APPLYNOW AT
as.ucsd.edu/contest
1st PRIZE- $2502nd PRIZ E- $1503rd PRIZ E- $100
Prize money to beused at UCSD Catering,
UCSD Marketplace, or at
the UCSD Bookstore.Sponsored by Associated Students,
A.S. Graphic Studio and the
Office of the Vice Chancellor of Student AffairsTRITON
PANTRYFOOD
location: Original Student Center
email: foodpantry@ucsd.edu
phone: (858) 534-5694The mission of the Triton Food Pantry is to provide 
a discreet service to UCSD students in need of 
food. Our goals are to ensure that every student 
has enough energy to get through the day and that 
no student needs to give up a single meal for any 
reason. We aim to build a network of resources and 
awareness about food insecurity.
Hours subject to change in future quarters.Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri
1pm–3pm 10am–2pm 10am–2pm 1pm–3pm 1pm–3pmHOURS OF OPERATION:black st ar
by   Da vid  bowie
Release Date Jan. 8
Released just two days before his passing, “Blackstar” is both a 
bittersweet farewell and a savory, tight experimental effort.ALBUM   REVIEW
After nearly a decade’s musical absence, David Bowie 
reappeared in 2013 with the release of “The Next 
Day. ” If that album gave the lasting impression that Bowie 
came back to comfortably sit on his rock-god throne, 
this latest, and final release, proves it absolutely wrong. 
Released on his 69th birthday it depicts Bowie not as 
deity but as contemporary innovator, delivering one of his 
best avant-garde efforts. With Bowie succumbing to liver 
cancer merely two days after its release, it also serves as a 
bittersweet, final farewell.
The album’s titular opening song immediately pulls the 
listener into the last direction Bowie explored: electronic-
soaked jazz fusion. The 10-minute long spastic space epic 
showcases layers of atonal electronics and synths built up 
over skittering drum’n’bass beats, with Bowie’s ominous 
chants growing in intensity, his somber vocals illuminated 
by a nervously dancing saxophone line. Y et before the song 
gets overwhelming, it pulls back to an echo of the Bowie we 
grew up with: beautiful crooning over sweeter and simpler 
melodies. But it’s merely a temporary lull, with the sound 
submerging deeper and deeper into the otherworldly. 
The end result is almost like Bowie applying his cut-up 
technique — rearranging sentences to form new lyrics — to 
his sound as a whole, with fragments of old Bowie found 
arranged over a new experimental blueprint.
Bowie’s status as the chameleon king of the strange 
has always been based around his lyrics and the riot of 
characters he’s adopted over the years. But “Blackstar” 
also serves as a keen reminder of how adept he was at 
melding his artistic visions with the talents of others. 
Bowie’s voice here knows when to take second-stage 
to the crisp electronics and jazz instruments ranging 
around him, treating saxophonist Donny McCaslin as a 
duetting vocalist.
This collaborative feat achieves its apex with the 
song “Lazarus. ” Cryptic lyrics are accented with electric 
guitars that crash like thunderstorms. It builds up to 
Bowie at his theatrical best, passionately tugging on heartstrings as he sings “this way or no way, you know 
I’ll be free. ” But then he rests, letting saxophone take 
over and push the final minutes of the song into ecstasy.
“Blackstar” closes with a song featuring a harmonica 
theme from his 1977 song “ A New Career in a New 
Town, ” about leaving the past behind and moving on. 
Despite hiding his illness so well from the public, Bowie 
knew he was facing the final act of moving on, and this 
is his last chance to address his audience. Bowie’s cries 
of “I can’t give everything away!” linger, echoing into 
space, simultaneously representing his wish to prolong 
his performance and his acceptance that he has offered 
the world as much of himself as he can. It’s a glorious 
swan song of farewell, as the Starman ascends to his 
pantheon in the sky.
—   Dieter  joubert
Senior Staff Writer
PHOTO COURTESY OF THEQUIETUS.COMSONGS OF THE WEEK
Could  you  by   Ba ynk
KEEPING  YOUR  HEAD  UP  by   birdy
100  million    b y  charlie  hil ton Legend goes that Kiwi youngster Jock Nowell-Usticke 
uploaded his new single to Soundcloud shortly before 
losing his laptop on a week-long surf trip. Returning 
home, he found that “Could Y ou” had gained the music 
industry’s attention and his upbeat, genre-defying track 
was on its way to becoming the song of the summer. With a lack of lyrics that 
calls attention to bold trumpets and intoxicating beats, his dance track stands 
as an striking debut — one that’s landed him coveted spots in some of New 
Zealand’s most highly anticipated festivals. So what if his laptop was left in a 
hotel and he doesn’t surf? Baynk’s legend is one worth believing in.
Birdy emerges from dark and brooding folk ballads 
with a bright, up-tempo track that shows off her 
powerful vocals with newfound electricity. The 
19-year-old singing prodigy captivated audiences with 
her rendition of Bon Iver’s “Skinny Love, ” but now 
leaves the mournful melodies of her piano for synthesizers and percussion. 
Birdy introduced her new single by saying, “It’s a side to me you haven’t 
heard before, ” and donning a flashy, colorful gown in the single’s cover art to 
emphasize her departure from more somber songs. “Keeping Y our Head Up” 
not only reflects a defiant break from her melancholic style and lyricism, but 
showcases a change of pace and energy for her upcoming album. 
Sorry Charlie Puth, but there’s a new Charlie in town 
with smooth vocals of her own. From Portland-
based band Blouse, lead singer Charlie Hilton 
goes solo in her latest single “100 Million. ” Hilton 
possesses a charm that is a mix of Lana Del Rey’s 
soul and Bethany Cosentino’s raw vocals. Teaming up with indie songster 
Mac DeMarco, the guitar-based track brings a soothing melody that 
talks of sandy oceans and everlasting love. Toward the end, a mashup of 
both singers’ heartfelt vocals creates a graceful harmony that is aurally 
stimulating and sincere. It’ll make one long for more collaborations.— By Karly Nisson   A&E Editor
— By Peter McInnis   Staff Writer
— By Melissa Palafox   Contributing Writer
WEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 14, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
“ In the nutrit ion program, 
we learn to take a whole 
foods approach to health.”
Daniel Andras, MS (2013)
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
   
Learn more: 
Bastyr.edu/Profession
855-4-BASINGSan Diego COOK.
CREATE.
INSPIRE.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Crea te a 
Healthier World 
with a Master of Science 
in Nutrition for Wellness
degree.Crea te a 
Healthier World 
with a Master of Science 
in Nutrition for Wellness
degree.Crea te a 
Healthier World 
with a Master of Science 
in Nutrition for Wellness
degree.Crea te a 
Healthier World 
with a Master of Science 
in Nutrition for Wellness
degree.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Crea te a 
Healthier World 
with a Master of Science 
in Nutrition for Wellness
degree.Crea te a 
Healthier World 
with a Master of Science 
in Nutrition for Wellness
degree.Crea te a 
Healthier World 
with a Master of Science 
in Nutrition for Wellness
degree.Crea te a 
Healthier World 
with a Master of Science 
in Nutrition for Wellness
degree.
With its thought-provoking songs and a memorably grandiose stage 
presence, Muse treated San Diego to a performance like no other.CONCERT   REVIEW
Muse does not disappoint. 
With “Drones” as the seventh 
installment into an impressive 
discography, Muse goes back to what it 
does best — playing instruments. This, 
coupled with the band’s elaborate live 
performance, gave the packed V alley 
View Casino Center reason to love 
Muse all the more.
The audience was enveloped in 
utter darkness. Floating UFO-like 
spheres outlined in colored LED lights 
descended from above as Muse opened 
with the title track to their latest album. 
Ensconced in the ethereal, one by one, 
drummer Dominic Howard, bassist 
Chris Wolstenholme and finally 
leading man Matt Bellamy appeared on 
stage to break the symphonic “Drones” 
with the heavy bass riff of “Psycho. ” 
Muse didn’t just sing their 
skepticism of drone warfare and the 
disconnection between advanced 
military interventions and human 
lives — they showed it, too. The drill 
sergeant in “Psycho” wasn’t  just 
another audio component to the song, 
but a visual stimulus. The 360-degree 
center stage ceiling screens were 
jammed with a drill sergeant yelling 
right at the audience. “The Handler” 
was  complemented with Bellamy 
and Wolstenholme positioned in 
front of drop-down screens showing 
light projections of puppeteer hands. 
With some impressive body tracking, 
the strings “attached” to Bellamy 
and Wolstenholme followed their 
movements as Bellamy sang out “I 
have been programmed to obey/ And now/ Y ou are my handler/ And I/ I 
will execute your demands. ” It’s an 
impressive visual and an eerie reminder 
of the narrative behind Drones.
Interspersed between the newer 
tracks were singles of Muse’s past. 
“Plug in Baby” began with a slow, 
distorted build up of Bellamy’s guitar. 
The track eventually brought Bellamy 
to his knees, shredding away at his 
guitar until his forehead touch the 
stage and resembled a prostrating 
figure. “Supermassive Black Hole” and 
“Starlight” came right after another, the 
ground floor being illuminated with 
a cosmic orange hue and images of 
the galaxy projected on the overhead 
screens. As Bellamy broke into the 
well-known chorus of “Starlight” and 
big black balloons came down on the 
crowds, he grabbed one of the aerial 
cameras and put the mic to it, cueing 
everyone to sing “My life/ Y ou electrify 
my life/ Let’s conspire to ignite/ All the 
souls that would die just to feel alive. ”
The band’s stage eccentricities 
varied from a literal remote-
controlled Reaper drone floating 
from one end of the stage to another during “The Globalist” to 
Bellamy and W olstenholme being 
lit with (visualized) flames during 
“Undisclosed Desires. ” And, of course, 
there was a little bit of guitar tossing 
and dragging by Bellamy before “Time 
is Running Out. ” 
As a member of a band that skips 
the schmoozing and goes straight 
to doing what it does best, Bellamy 
briefly took to the mic towards the 
end of their nearly two hour set and 
said, “We got a treat for you guys 
coming out today. ” Closing with 
“Mercy” and the grandiose “Knights 
of Cydonia, ” human-shaped confetti 
filled the airspace and Bellamy sweetly 
closed with “Y ou and I must fight for 
our rights/ Y ou and I must fight to 
survive. ” A fitting embodiment of 
their latest album, a fitting message to 
show that Muse’s work transcends the 
temptation to cater to radio airwaves 
but commits to creating meaningful 
songs that will stand the test of time.
—   Vincent  pham  
Staff WriterMuse
at   V alley  view  casino  center
Concert Date  Jan. 7
PHOTO COURTESY OF GAVIN BONDwhere  ha ve  y ou  been  all  my  life?
by   villagers
Release Date Jan. 8
Villagers’ latest reprises previous recordings in 
an impressive reinterpretation of sound.ALBUM   REVIEW
Villagers, an Irish indie folk band 
characterized by its involved 
arrangements and eerie vocals, is 
distinguished as one of the genre’s 
top artists. In their newest release, 
“Where Have Y ou Been All My 
Life?, ” they made the bold decision 
to produce an album consisting 
entirely of their previously released 
music that they’ve reinterpreted and 
simplified. So simplified, in fact, that 
the entire album was recorded in one 
day, with each song only needing one 
or two takes.
Villagers lead singer, Conor 
J. O’Brien, is no stranger to the 
unusual. In his previous band, The 
Immediate, members were known 
to switch instruments throughout 
a performance, with each person 
equally sharing bass and guitar 
duties. Though O’Brien separated 
from the group in 2007, he retained 
its quirky sound and affinity for the 
unconventional. In his new band, he 
draws inspiration from alternative, 
indie and folk genres, creating his own 
brand of music. Over the past five 
years, Villager’s music has migrated 
away from its alternative ties to fully 
embrace O’Brien’s folk inclinations; 
“Where Have You Been All My Life?” 
recreates previously upbeat tracks in 
a muted, mellow light, hinting at the 
final stage in the band’s evolution.
The most apparent evidence of 
the evolved sound in “Where Have 
Y ou Been All My Life?” is seen when comparing it with the band’s oldest 
album, “Becoming A Jackal. ”  Tracks 
like “Set The Tigers Free” and “That 
Day, ” which originally featured a faster 
tempo and a steady beat, give way to 
a softer sound and lighter instrument 
use in their newer reprisals. O’Brien’s 
voice, originally firm and steady, 
is traded in for a less substantial, 
smooth, melodic tone, allowing him 
to attach more emotion to his words.
However, tracks from their 
more recent releases like “Hot 
Scary Summer” and “Soul Serene, ” 
both from the 2015 album Darling 
Arithmetic, are not altered nearly 
enough in “Where Have Y ou Been 
All My Life?” to warrant an entirely 
new recording. The instrumental 
arrangements are only subtly different, 
and O’Brien’s voice is virtually 
indistinguishable between the two 
tracks. These releases hardly earn the 
label “new, ” and taint an otherwise 
imaginative album.
Despite the album’s shortcomings, 
its fresh perspective and authentic, 
matured sound make it an invaluable 
component of Villagers’ repertoire. 
The band is very much in its element 
as it returns to its simpler folk 
roots, and will undoubtedly impress 
audiences in the future.
—   Chriss y  dodd  
Staff Writer
10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 14, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDS$
Gua rdian Classifieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifieds
BIKES
Raleigh Tokul 27.5 Mountain Bike - $795. 
Completely tore down and rebuilt with bet -
ter components. Shimano Zee 1x10 drive -
train. Rockshox coil spring. Avid hydraulic 
disc brakes. Well over $950 into it. Listing 
ID: 225123274 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
Orange Bike - $20. They ride nicely. No rust! 
Like new. See for yourself! I have two bikes. 
Listing ID: 223883935 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more informationIndoor/Outdoor Stationary Bike Trainer 
- $35. A little dusty but in great shape. 
Bearings are excellent. Get in shape with 
your own bike in your own space. Listing ID: 
223883933 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
ELECTRONICS
Wii System w/Controllers - $50. Wii gaming 
system. Has all the original cables. Comes 
with the power cord, audio/sound input 
cable and motion detector. Wii comes with 
a stand and two controllers with plastic grip 
case. Listing ID: 225407296 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more informationVtech Cordless Phone with Answering 
Machine - $24. Brand new. Charged and 
only used for maybe three phone calls. 
Landline. Has attached digital answering 
machine. Listing ID: 224557326 at ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tion
47 Inch Philips LCD TV - $200. In terrific con -
dition. Listing ID: 223884002 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
FURNITURE
Black Wooden Dresser - $20. Works great 
in any bedroom. Listing ID: 225123324 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Twin Pillow Top Medium-Firm Mattress 
- $250. Six years old. High quality and 
in good condition. No tears or stains. 
Incredibly soft and comfortable pillow 
top with a medium-firm feel. Listing ID: 
224557335 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Sofa Set - $200. Three-seater couch and a 
two-seater couch (love section). Both in 
great condition. No tears or stains on the 
fabric. $150 for the three-seater and $50 
for the two-seater. Listing ID: 225407283 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
informationComplete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies 
on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.ukLevel: 1234 Level: 1234
SUDOKU
PART TIME JOB MARKETING JOB
Carmel Valley 92130 family looking 
for part-time student to look after 
our 9 & 11 year old daughters. 
Person must love children, 
have reliable car and outgoing 
personality. Responsibilities 
include picking up from school, 
helping with homework, driving to 
drop off at Basketball. La Jolla Dental Group 
looking for two outgoing 
students to help with their 
marketing, preferably one male 
and one female.Monday – Friday  
2:30pm – 5:30pm
If interested, contact Sean at  
858-842-7100 or  
srones@aprons.com.If interested, contact Maria 
at 858-455-9614 or office@
lajolladentalgroup.com for more 
information.
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
Karmonize.org  is a student organization
where we can support good causes,
cooperate, and volunteer to
improve the UCSD community.HELP OTHERS, FIND HELP
WHEN YOU NEED IT, AND
MAKE KARMA REAL!
FOLLOW US
@ucsdguardian
your vision,  our mission .Your on-c ampus, student-run,  
custom scr een printing se rvice 
comple te with graphic design  
capabilities and me rchandis e
available f rom:
madetoorde r@ucsd. edu
to.ucsd.ed uCONTACT US TODAY FO R A FREE QUOTE!
JUST FOR YOU! RECEIVE  10% OFF YOUR FIRST CUSTOM ORDER  (minimum 36 shirts) • EXPIRE S 3/11/16SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 14, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
Deadline to apply: Feb 28
TO LEARN MORE ATTEND THE OPEN forum:
Jan 28 • 12pm-1pm • Forum, PC EAST, 4th Floor 
Contact s6mathew@ucsd.edu for additional inquiriesBecome the next
UC STUDENT
REGENTFENCING 
UCSD W . Fencing Takes 
Gold in St. Louis Event
Women’s saber earns gold medal at North American Cup.
week  in
summar y
FENCING
MEN'S  
BASKETBALLMen’s Epee - Senior Team
Men’s Foil - Senior Team
Men’s Foil - Division I
Men’s Saber - Senior Team
Men’s Saber - Senior
Men’s Saber - Junior
Women’s Saber - Senior
UCSD
UCSDDavid Hadler
David Hadler
Thejas Gulati
San Fransisco State
Cal State LA22nd
Tied 11th
8th
6th
21st
1st
73 - 485th
78 - 64The UC San Diego fencing team 
had a great showing in St. Louis 
at the North American Cup, Jan. 
8 to 11, starred by a gold medal 
performance by the women’s saber 
squad. 
A trio of freshmen saber 
competitors, Lillian Chu, Leanne 
Singleton-Comfort and Savanah 
Tiffany combined to take first place 
in the women’s saber senior team 
event. UCSD edged out the Jiangsu 
Fencing Team, 45–44, to earn gold.
Singleton-Comfort was UC San 
Diego’s top placer in junior women’s 
saber and Division I women’s saber, 
finishing 10th and 24th respectively. 
Chu took 41st in Division-I 
women’s saber with Taylor Walsh 
finishing 83 and Tiffany taking 
84th. In junior women’s saber, Chu 
finished 58th and Tiffany 88th.
In Division-I men’s foil, 
sophomore David Hadler tied for 
11th in a field of 196 competitors. 
Hadler eventually lost to Olympian 
and 2013 world champion Miles 
Chamley-Watson after winning 
three consecutive direct-elimination 
bouts. Chamley-Watson would go 
on to take silver in the tournament. 
Stanford’s Alexander Massialis, an 
Olympian, won the event.
Hadler also performed well in 
junior men’s foil, finishing eighth of 
173 competitors. He earned a No. 15 seed in the direct elimination 
round’s seed by going 6–0 in pool 
play. Hadler won four straight bouts 
after having a bye in the opening 
round. He would eventually lose 
to Canada’s Daniel Gu, the event’s 
silver medalist.
Freshman Thejas Gulati and 
Evan George finished 21st and 
62nd, respectively, in junior men’s 
saber.
Among other results, UCSD 
finished 22nd in the men’s epee 
senior team bracket with a team 
composed of Sean Callaghan, Alex 
Okamoto and Scott Phillips. In 
Division I men’s foil, Hadler, Brian 
Howard and Mitchell Shulman 
finished fifth out of the nine teams. 
Drew Dickinson, George and Gulati 
took sixth out of 11 in men’s saber 
senior team; Dickinson and George 
also finished in the top hundred 
fencers in men’s saber Division I.
The Tritons play on Sunday, 
Jan. 17, as they host the West 
Invitational at RIMAC Arena. 
The event will also serve as the 
Western Fencing Conference 
Team Championship. The UC San 
Diego women won the conference 
last season, while the men placed 
second. Along with UCSD, the 
WFC is comprised of the Air Force 
Academy, Caltech, Incarnate Word 
and Stanford.
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE/ GUARDIAN FILE
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE/ GUARDIAN FILE
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE/ GUARDIAN FILESPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
MARCUS THUILLIER
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
Tritons Up 
to No. 1412  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 14, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
Game One
To say the Tritons did well against the San Francisco State Gators on 
Thursday night would be an understatement. From the start of the game, 
the Tritons absolutely dominated the Gators, scoring at will against a 
Gator defense that couldn’t stop a bloody nose. By the end of the half, 
the Tritons already held a 15–point lead over the Gators, leading by as 
many as 21 points earlier in the game and never trailing. 
Credit is due to the spectacular Triton offense, as they shot a stellar 
54.5 percent from the three-point stripe and 55 percent overall in the 
first half. Junior guard Aleks Lipovic lead the first-half charge with 
two three-pointers and nine points total. On the flip side, the Gators 
couldn’t get anything going on offense, only 
hitting 25 percent of their first-half shots 
and shooting an abysmal 18.2 percent from 
the three-point line, clearly stymied by the 
tough Triton defense.
The Tritons’ success did not change in 
the slightest during the second half. While 
the Tritons allowed the Gators to climb 
within 12 points, UCSD continued to blow 
the Gators out of the water, eventually 
winning by 73–48 at the end of the night. 
“It was great to get a conference win on 
the road, ” UCSD Head Coach Eric Olen 
told the UCSD Athletics Department. 
“Offensively, we shot the ball well and got 
contributions from a lot of guys. ”
Leading all scorers with 16 points was 
Lipovic, also contributing four rebounds. 
Junior guard Adam Klie continued his 
impressive play with a line of 12 points, 
five assists and five rebounds, while 
sophomore guard Grant Jackson also played 
well, scoring 10 points and grabbing five 
rebounds.
“I thought we did a good job on defense, 
but I’ d like us to rebound better, ” Olen told 
the UCSD Athletics Department. “Overall, 
I’m pleased with our effort. ”
The UCSD men’s basketball improved 
to 11–2 overall and 6–1 in conference play, 
while SF State fell to 7–5 overall and 1–5 in 
conference play.Game Two
While Saturday night’s final score would indicate the Tritons had an 
easy time at Cal State LA; the first half of 
the Tritons’ road game against the Golden 
Eagles was a close affair. With six lead 
changes and two tie scores, the Golden 
Eagles challenged the Tritons far more 
than the Gators had a few nights before. 
But that wouldn’t last long, as the Tritons 
found their groove by the end of the half, 
where a three-pointer by senior forward 
Drew Dyer put the Tritons up seven. And 
after that, the Tritons never looked back, 
dominating the Golden Eagles effortlessly. 
“We are excited to grind out a road win 
tonight, ” Olen told the UCSD Athletics 
Department.
Dyer was hot out of the gate, hitting 
his first five out of six shots and scoring 14 points in the first half. Klie 
contributed 10 more points off of similarly efficient shooting, hitting five 
out of seven shots.
While the Tritons weren’t 
shooting as well as they had in the 
first half, their 44-percent  shooting 
percentage was enough as they were 
able to hold the Golden Eagles to 
33.3 percent, increasing their lead to 
14 by the end of the game, winning 
78–64.
Dyer finished with a team-high 
20 points and eight rebounds with 
Klie close behind with 19 points, five 
rebounds and four assists. Freshman 
center Chris Hansen shot an efficient 
7–9 on the way to scoring 16 points, 
while Lipovic brought in another 10 points, even when his three-point 
shot wasn’t falling. The team shot 50.9 percent overall, marking it their 
tenth game shooting over 50 percent.
“We did a good job on the defensive end in the second half, ” Olen 
told the UCSD Athletics Department. “Offensively, I thought we were 
able to score in several different ways and we limited our turnovers. ”
The Tritons handed the Golden Eagles their 12th loss of the season, 
making them fall to 2–12 and 1–6 in conference play. The Tritons will 
continue their road trip when they head to Cal State East Bay on Jan. 15.The UCSD men’s basketball team’s stellar play continued without any issues last week, following their upset of the previously undefeated Cal 
Poly Pomona and crushing San Francisco State and Cal State Los Angeles. The No. 14 Tritons are now 12–2 overall and 7–1 in California Collegiate 
Athletic Association play heading into the last two games of their four-game road trip.Written by Alex Wu
Photos by Megan Lee
W. Basketball
M. Basketball
M. Volleyball
Swim and Dive
M. Tennis  1/15
  1/15
  1/15
  1/16
  1/16AT Cal State East Bay
AT Cal State East Bay 
VS UC Santa Barbara
AT California Baptist
AT University of San Diego UPCOMING
UCSD
GAMES