VOLUME 49, ISSUE 31   MONDA Y , FEBRUAR Y 8, 2016  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
THE NEXT BIG 
INNOVATIONS
UCSD IS FULL OF INNOVATORS 
JUST WAITING TO MAKE 
THEIR IDEAS A REALITY. THE 
GUARDIAN SPOKE TO SOME 
OF THESE ENTREPRENEURS 
TO LEARN THE SECRETS OF 
STARTING A COMPANY.         
LIMITING   ENROLLMENT
TENNIS  IN  ACTION FEWER  SPOTS  FOR  CALIFORNIANS
Men's  Tennis  pulls  off  upsetOPINION, P AGE 4
sports,  P age  12
MONDAY
H 75 L 54TUESDAY
H 75 L 52
WEDNESDAY
H 75 L 52THURSDAY
H 73 L 52
FORECAST
VERBATIM
THE FINAL STEP IS TO GO 
AHEAD AND RIP OFF YOUR 
CLOTHES — REVEALING 
YOUR FAVORITE SWIMSUIT 
(WHICH, OF COURSE, YOU’VE 
BEEN WEARING ALL DAY). 
NOW RUN STRAIGHT INTO 
THE GLEAMING BEACH 
WATERS.
- GONE WITH THE WIND
HOW-TO GURU
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
LIGHTS AND SIRENS  .......2
QUICK TAKES  .................. 3
WINTER CAREER FAIR  .....7
CROSSWORD  ................ 10
SOFTBALL  .................... 12“Fea tures,  P AGE  6
ILLUSTRATION BY CHRISTINA CARLSON / GUARDIAN
Researchers from the UCSD 
political science department 
released a study showing that strict 
voter-identification laws reduce 
minority voter turnout in both 
primary and general elections. The 
study appeared online on Jan. 26. 
“Voter Identification Laws and 
the Suppression of Minority Votes, ” 
the study conducted by UCSD 
Political Science Professor Zoltan 
Hajnal, alongside Political Science 
graduate students Nazita Lajevardi 
and Lindsey Nielson, compares the 
rate at which minorities voted before 
and after the implementation of 
photo-identification requirements. 
Lajevardi explained to the UCSD Guardian that the research 
demonstrates the negative effect of 
identification laws on minorities.
“It shows us that minorities 
in states where there are these 
really restrictive voter ID laws 
are not voting and participating 
in democracy as much as their 
white counterparts, all else equal, ” 
Lajevardi said.
Hajnal pointed out that the study 
used current election data, creating a 
more accurate picture of the effect of 
voter-identification laws on minorities.
“Strict voter ID laws have only 
been put in place in the last few 
rounds of elections, so if you want 
to assess the impact of the strictest 
forms of these laws, you have to 
look at the most recent elections, ” 
Hajnal told the Guardian. “Scholars just haven’t been able to do that 
until now. ”
The study, comparing the voter 
turnout of minority groups in 
states with strict identification laws 
to those without, reveals that in 
general elections, Latino turnout 
in states that required photo 
identification was 10.3 points lower, 
while multiracial turnout was 12.8 
points lower. Similar reductions 
were also seen in primaries, with 
Latino and black turnouts 6.3 and 
1.6 points lower, respectively. 
Lajevardi stated that the 
frequently changing laws are 
detrimental to minorities because 
they are difficult to follow.
“[ID laws] are confusing; they 
come and go,” Lajevardi said. Zika Virus 
May Spread 
to San Diego 
from MexicoLOCAL
Imperial Beach Mayor Serge 
Dedina warned that the river 
valley needs to be cleaned to 
prevent a local Zika outbreak. 
BY   J o s h  L e f l e r
See ZIKA , page 3 See ELECTIONS , page 2The Tijuana River Valley may 
become a breeding ground for 
mosquitoes carrying the Zika virus 
unless action is taken to clean up the 
area, according to executive director 
of the nonprofit WILDCOAST and 
Imperial Beach Mayor Serge Dedina. 
If left polluted, the mosquitoes from 
the area could travel to San Diego 
and cause an outbreak of the disease.
The Tijuana River Valley, an 
estuary, sits on the U.S.-Mexico 
border between San Diego and 
Tijuana. It is also a hotbed for 
mosquito eggs because of the trash 
that accumulates in its marshes.
The Zika virus is an infection 
carried by mosquitoes, which causes 
mild symptoms of fever, vomiting 
and rashes. While there have been 
no reported fatalities caused by 
the infection, it has been linked to 
an increase in infants born with 
abnormally small heads, a condition 
known as microcephaly.
Dedina spoke about the potential 
danger with FOX 5 News on Feb. 2, 
where he insisted that the thousands 
of tires abandoned in the estuary 
hold stagnant water that provides 
an optimal space for mosquitoes to 
lay their eggs.
“Those breeding grounds are 
areas with lots of wastewater [and] 
tires … in addition to the two 
species of mosquito — yellow fever 
mosquito and Asian tiger mosquito 
— that can transmit Zika, ” Dedina 
told FOX 5.
WILDCOAST Director of 
Communications and Policy Fay 
Crevoshay spoke to the UCSD 
Guardian about the issue, saying 
that this has been a problem years 
in the making.
“Every time it rains, more tires are 
washing in from the canyon across 
the border, ” Crevoshay said. “This is 
not just a problem in San Diego but 
all over the U.S.-Mexico border. ”
According to the WILDCOAST 
website, the California government 
exports approximately two million 
waste tires to Mexico annually, 
which are used in short-term 
building projects, such as shanty 
houses, makeshift stairs or wall 
retainers. Eventually, through 
rain or refuse, these tires end up 
stateside again in the river systems 
and estuaries, particularly the one 
situated between Imperial Beach 
and Tijuana.
The accumulation of tires in the 
valley could exacerbate the spread 
of Zika virus if, or when, it begins to 
circulate in the United States. Armenian Students Protest 
Genocide at Silent Tree
Students from the Armenian Student 
Association gathered in silent protest 
last Thursday to remember the 1915 
Armenian Genocide. Participants had the 
word “DENIAL ” written on red tape covering 
their mouths, as they sat around the Silent 
Tree, holding posters with colors of the 
Armenian flag.
Thurgood Marshall College senior 
Andranik Kulikyan explained to the UCSD 
Guardian that the purpose of the protest 
is to increase awareness of genocide in 
order to prevent similar acts in the future. 
Within roughly seven years, over 1.5 million 
individuals were killed in the genocide, 
according to the New York Times. 
“We’re trying to honor people who have 
died, and at the same time, raise awareness 
for people who might not know that kind 
of atrocity happened in history, ” Kulikyan 
said. “If you don’t remember what happened 
in history, it might repeat again. This is our action in trying to prevent that kind of thing 
from happening. ” 
Seda Byurat, Earl Warren College senior and 
head of ASA ’s Armenian Genocide Committee, 
told the Guardian that the United States refuses 
to federally recognize the historical event given 
its strong military relations with the Republic 
of Turkey. Byurat explained that the University 
of California currently has over $74 million 
invested in the region. 
“It’s still in the works, but we’re going to 
present a divestment from the Republic of 
Turkey, ” Byurat said. “This resolution passed 
across many UC campuses—UCLA, UC 
Berkeley, UC Irvine, UC Riverside, just to 
name a few. Finally, it’s coming here to UCSD. 
This is our segue into bringing up divestment. 
Even Hitler quoted, ‘Who, after all, remembers 
the Armenians?’ when he was trying to get 
away with his Holocaust. If we keep these huge 
historical things under wraps, and we keep 
supporting governments as students, that’s   B Y Julie Yip   CAMPUS
Voter ID Laws Linked to Low Minority Tur nout
Researchers examined participation rates among states requiring photo identification.See GENOCIDE , page 3
UCSD
BY   L a u r e n  H o l tPhoto by Patrick Lazo /UCSD Guardian“Minorities who are not really aware 
of political changes don’t really 
know how it works, so when they 
show up on voting day, they haven’t 
done the right things [in order to be 
eligible to vote]. ”
In addition to confusing voters, 
Lajevardi added that the laws can 
also be financially burdensome, 
requiring those without photo 
IDs to purchase them. Not only 
do minorities in particular have a 
harder time affording identification 
documents, but according to outside 
research cited in the study, they are 
also less likely to own forms of 
identification to begin with. 
According to Lajevardi, decline 
in minority turnout has important 
consequences for the demographics 
of the voting population.“If we think about the fact 
that minorities are increasing in 
population size, and they’re going to 
be able to be the majority voting 
population soon enough, then there 
are all these laws that disenfranchise 
them and prohibit them from 
participating, ” Lajevardi explained. 
“These are institutional measures to 
sort of stop or slow minorities [from] 
overtaking the democratic process. ”
Associate Vice President of 
Equity, Diversity and Inclusion 
Daniel Juarez told the Guardian that 
he was not surprised by the study’s 
conclusion, noting that minorities 
can be marginalized for the benefit 
of others. 
“I think this is a reminder of 
the greater fabric of our nation that 
does not aim to protect or include 
black or brown people, but rather to exploit and capitalize off of our 
oppression and exclusion, ” Juarez 
said. 
Hajnal pointed out that most 
UCSD students are not subjected 
to voter-identification laws, as 
California is one of the 19 states 
without them. Despite this, Student 
Organized Voter Access Committee 
Executive Director Codi Vierra notes 
that many university students still 
do not vote, allowing politicians to 
ignore the needs of college students.
“When we don’t vote, that signals 
to politicians that we don’t care, ” 
Vierra told the Guardian. “If we 
vote, then politicians will be forced 
to address the issues that concern us 
the most. ”
Given that the study provides 
proof of the negative consequences 
of voter-identification laws, Hajnal is hopeful that the research will 
affect the national conversation on 
voter identification legislation.
“This study is really one of the 
first to show an impact, ” Hajnal 
said. “With that new evidence, it 
becomes more and more difficult to 
see these laws as constitutional and 
perhaps more likely that the courts 
will overturn them. ”
Although this study is a start, 
Lajevardi feels there is still more to 
be done about disenfranchisement. 
“I think that this is only the 
beginning,” Lajevardi explained. 
“It’s really important to think about 
all the different ways in which there 
are institutional biases. I don’t think 
the work is ended here. ” 2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 8, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
COUPLE OF DERPS By Elyse Yang
.com/ucsdguardian
REGISTER ONLINE  AT
AS.UCS D.EDU/ SAFERID ESREGISTRATION
FOR this quarter
IS NOW OPEN!
A.S. Safe Rides all ows 
registe red unde rgraduate 
students to get 3 FREE rid es 
per quarter. 
Students must r egister at 
least 2 4 hours prior t o their 
first ri de. Contact A.s. safe rides: (619) 564 - 799 8The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California or 
Associated Students. What inside joke? Olga likes Pokemon. 
Was there a Super Bowl today?
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Marketing Co-Directors
Peter McInnis, Haley Asturias
Training and Development Manager
Cedric Hyon
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Vincent Pham
Tina Butoiu
Kriti Sarin
Jacky To
Cassia Pollock 
Marcus Thuillier
Allison Kubo
Karly Nisson
Brittney Lu
Olga Golubkova
Jonathan Gao
Megan Lee
Joselynn Ordaz
Sherman Aline
Christina Carlson
Sophia Huang
Jennifer Grundman
Sage Schubert ChristianEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
News Editor
 
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editors
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Sherman Aline, Quinn Peiper
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim, Alicia Ho, Lisa Chik
Editorial Assistants
Christian Duarte, Dev Jain, Julie Yip, Josh Lefler,  
Naftali Burakovsky, Sam Velazquez
LAUREN HOL T   California, 18 Other States Do Not Legally Require Voters to Present Photo Identification
▶ ELECTIONS,  from page 1
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGsee more at
Dr. Terranova, Dr. Sherman, and Dr. Horne
TORREY PINES
DENTAL ARTS
We welcome UCSD Staff & Students
Richard L Sherman DDS
Steven B. Horne DDS
Scripps/Ximed Medical Center
9850 Genessee Avenue #720
La Jolla, CA 92037
858-453-5525
Info@TorreyPinesDentalArts.com
www.TorreyPinesDentalArts.com'"! $! $
$""
'"	!# !
'%""!
 !
'
!&!! #!
 " !! "	!
"	#!not the progress we want to see in 
society and the world. ” 
According to Byurat, ASA 
has plans to present a divestment 
resolution to Associated Students, 
similar to resolutions that have 
successfully passed at other UC 
campuses including UCLA; the 
Daily Bruin reported that the 
Undergraduate Students Association 
Council at UCLA passed a resolution 
to divest over $65 million from the 
Republic of Turkey in January of 
last year. 
Muir college junior Mariam 
Kutukjianand, an Armenian 
student, came upon the protest and appreciated ASA ’s efforts to increase 
recognition of the genocide. She 
also described to the Guardian how 
the form of silent protest allows 
students to approach the topic at 
hand independently.
“You can talk and make a lot 
of lectures regarding this subject 
and a lot of people refuse to listen 
to you and hear what is going on, ” 
Kutukjian stated. “By this visual act, 
they’re going to open the eyes of 
people. People are going to walk by, 
look at the posters and wonder what 
is going on. It’s going to drive people 
to actually research the subject 
instead of listening to people who 
know a lot about the subject. ”
A.S. Vice President of Equality, Inclusion and Diversity Daniel 
Juarez told the Guardian that 
campus is not always conducive to 
organized activism. 
“Even if students may not 
engage directly, it’s a space in which 
students can see other students 
trying to raise awareness around the 
issues that they care deeply [about], ” 
Juarez said. “It’s oftentimes hard to 
organize on a campus that has been 
strategically built to suppress student 
protests, but the Silent Tree in front 
of Geisel provides somewhat of a 
visible place because it’s a location 
that many students go to. ”
The World Health Organization 
listed 26 countries on Feb. 4 with 
confirmed outbreaks of the virus, 
including Mexico, where cases have 
been limited to the southern half of 
the nation.
To preemptively combat the 
issue, WILDCOAST partnered with 
the Secretary of the Environment 
of Baja California as well as several 
waste companies in Tijuana to 
orchestrate a concerted clean-
up effort on the Mexican side of 
the border, for which the State Agency CalRecycle has awarded the 
nonprofit a grant of $100,000.
Dedina praised the cooperative 
effort as a proactive defense against 
potential mosquito invasions during 
the summer in a Feb. 1 press release.
“This innovative approach to 
cleaning up on the Mexican side 
of the border … builds upon 
California’s excellent relationship 
with Baja California and Mexico, ” 
Dedina said. “It illustrates why 
working together with our neighbor 
to the south is the only approach to 
environmental problem solving in 
our regions, where two countries share a [watershed]. ” 
Crevoshay expects the initiative to 
serve as a pilot program for a much 
larger effort to clean up the border.
“They gave us $100,000, which 
is not much, ” Crevoshay told the 
Guardian. “But we want to prove 
that if we can keep one side clean, 
the other side will follow, and we 
won’t have this onslaught of tires. ”
Crevoshay told the Guardian that 
the official cleanup starts this Monday.NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 8, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
REAPPLY FOR
FINANCIAL AID 2016-17MARCH 2, 2016Priority Deadline for  filing  the
FAFSA or CAL Dream Act Applic ation i s:
www.fafsa.g ovUse UCSD school code 001317. .
Use UCSD school code 00131700. www.CalDreamA ct.org
If you need assistance, please co ntact the Financial Aid  Office a t (858) 534-4480.If you have not yet completed your 2015 tax return, estimate the amounts and then update your 
via www.fafsa.gov.  California Dream Act Application can update your estimates at 
www.CalDreamAct.org.
   Students who are U.S. Citizens or  Permane nt Residen ts
can submi t the FAFSA online  at: 
Students who are AB540 eligible  and who are not eligible  to submit  a FAFSA,
can submit the California Dream Act Application at:ORLIGHTS & SIRENSLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edu.
Friday, Jan. 29th
10:19 a.m. Welfare Check
Female inside women’s restroom of 
Health Sciences Biomedical Research 
Facility, talking to herself and yelling 
at dog. Field Interview.
10:30 pm. Injury
Y oung adult female fell off 
skateboard near Voigt dip, causing 
injury to shoulder and hip. 
Transported to Hospital.
Saturday, Jan. 30th
12:56 a.m. Drunk In Public
Per Lyft driver, dropped off 
intoxicated female who doesn’t 
have keys to get into Rita Atkinson 
Residence, and ran down into 
trees leading to La Jolla Village Dr.   
Gone on Arrival.
1:39 a.m. Collision With Injury
UC emergency vehicle and bicyclist 
involved collision near Hopkins Drive, 
motorist and bicyclist transported to 
hospital.  Report T aken.
Sunday, Jan. 31st
7:49 a.m. Hazard Situation
Boiling water on grass near 
engineering building unit 1.     
Referred To Other UCSD Department.
3:09 p.m. Hazard Situation
Tree fell down near Goody’s, 
blocking street in front of location.         
Referred To Other UCSD Department.
4:48 p.m. Information
Report of tree that fell from the 
UCSD’s La Jolla Del Sol apartment 
complex onto two vehicles in a 
neighboring apartment complex. 
Report Taken.
7:56 p.m. Assist Other Agency
Tree fell down and blocking all 
southbound lanes around North 
Torrey Pines Rd. and La Jolla Shores Dr., causing motorists to drive on 
wrong side of road. Checks OK.
9:34 p.m. Hazard Situation
Tree fell into the south Mesa 
apartments, major damage to multiple 
apartments, residents cleared out of 
building. Report Taken.
11:03 p.m. Hazard Situation
Tree fell down in roadway 
near social sciences building 
and took out lightpole.                                     
Referred To Other UCSD Department.
Monday, Feb. 1st
2:23 a.m. Hazard Situation
Tree down blocking all lanes of 
traffic at Campus Point and Voigt. 
Service Provided.
9:13 am. – Collision With Injury
Male bicyclist crashed around Pangea 
and Scholars, causing possible injury 
to abdomen. Report Taken.
Tuesday, Feb. 2nd
10:24 a.m. – Medical Aid
Adult female experiencing severe 
vertigo at the telemedicine building. 
Transported To Hospital.
11:16 p.m. – Citizen Contact
Smoking contact around the Sixth 
College apartments. Will Cooperate.
Thursday, Feb. 4th
10:30 a.m. – Hit & Run — No Injuries
Suspect left note with false phone 
number. Service Provided.
7:18 p.m. – Medical Aid
Y oung adult female lost consciousness 
due to nose bleed around the Marshall 
College residential areas. Transported 
To Hospital.
— MING-RAY LIAO
Staff WriterJuarez: University Layout Strategically Suppresses Student Activism
Preliminary Clean-Up Program Received $100,000 in Funding▶ GENOCIDE,  from page 1
▶ ZIKA,  from page 1JULIE YIP  
Josh Lefler   
Follow us on Twitter 
@UCSDGUARDIAN4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 8, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
Educa ting the World
in CaliforniaOPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
See ENROLLMENT, page 5As more and more international students have enrolled in the 
UC system over the past decade, the university’s focus on serving 
local students has been compromised.
BY ALEXANDER CHEN // STAFF WRITER
The tradeoffs with both the University of California limiting the 
acceptance of out-of-state students to 15.5 percent and unlimited 
acceptance of out-of-state students are difficult to accept. 
Non-California residents pay an estimated $56,073 for tuition and on 
campus living costs while California residents pay $31,365. An increased 
acceptance of California residents leaves the issue of compensating for 
the loss of $24,708 per student who resides on campus. While it would it 
be ideal if the state provided the UC system with more funding, a more 
realistic response would likely raise the cost of tuition for both in-state 
students and out-of-state students. However, the increased acceptance 
of international students for financial reasons seems to ignore the larger 
fact that the UC system lacks the necessary funding to keep tuition costs 
low. This creates a challenge for the UC system to effectively serve the 
Californian student community it was designed to educate. While the 
University of California website says, “UC undergraduates come from 
all over California, and they work hard to make it to college, ” this phrase 
ignores those who also worked hard in Californian high schools but are 
edged out of various UC schools due to the UC’s interest in accepting out-
of-state students for financial reasons. 
Despite this, out-of-state and international students add an element 
of diversity that helps in-state students broaden their horizons. Having 
grown up in California among like-minded individuals, it is all too easy to forget about other cultures and societies and their perspectives. Diversity 
brings about a positive impact to the UC and UCSD communities as 
students learn about other cultures and have the opportunity to interact 
with students from foreign countries, which is not often present in high 
school. 
Undergraduate enrollment statistics released by UCSD are illustrating 
trends that are a cause for concern. Eighty percent of the undergraduate 
student population is from California. 5.1 percent come from out of 
state, whereas 14.9 percent are international students. The number of 
international students at UCSD has risen a whopping 684 percent over 
the past 10 years while San Diegan enrollment has dropped 5 percent. 
Over the past six years, enrollment from students living in places such 
as San Diego, Los Angeles, San Francisco and other California locations 
have all fluctuated in enrollment percentages, with the the only notable 
exceptions being out-of-state and international enrollment. Out-of-
state enrollment increased from 3 percent to 5 percent over the period 
2010–15 with a 198 percent increase from 2005. Even more staggering is 
its international enrollment which has risen from 5 percent to 18 percent 
from 2010–15. This data shows that serving the interests of international 
students continues to be an important priority for the UC system in order 
to access higher tuition payments.
The UCSD Guardian reported earlier this year that Gov. Jerry Brown’s 
QUICK TAKESTHE LGBT COMMUNITY HAS RECENTLY BEEN DISCUSSING WHETHER OR NOT THE “T” SHOULD REMAIN A PART OF 
“LGB.” THIS IS PARTLY DUE TO GREATER AWARENESS OF THE TRANSGENDER COMMUNITY AND ITS UNIQUE GOALS.How-To 
Guru: 
Gone with 
the Wind
Right as UCSD students were 
starting to feel acclimated to winter 
weather, the forecast throws us a 
sudden curveball. Everybody was 
happily tucked up in bed. We were 
feeling extra cozy while seeking 
shelter from the cool winter frost, 
with our snuggies, stuffed animals 
and mugs of steaming hot chocolate. 
Without warning, those Santa Ana 
winds came soaring into San Diego, 
filling the skies with warm streams of 
dry desert air. One moment the rain 
is thundering down upon us; we’re in 
the midst of El Nino, barely able to 
brave the storm. The next moment, 
intense heat and wind is pounding 
down on us. Just remember, this 
situation is only temporary.
Santa Ana winds can create a 
vast array of life-threatening hazards. 
This includes wind, heat and dryness. 
Symptoms may include beach 
fantasies, summer dreams and intense 
ice cream cravings. Don’t let your 
body become hopelessly confused by 
the unexpected onset of perfectly ideal 
weather. We’ll give you some useful 
tips to shelter yourself from the Santa 
Ana winds with this handy dandy 
guide from the how-to guru.
It is crucial that you shield your 
body from the scalding hot waves 
of sun. Go to CVS and buy 10 or 
20 bottles of spray-on sunscreen. 
Y es, they are overpriced, underfilled 
bottles of skin protection that will 
run out within five minutes of use 
or become jammed at the opening, 
rendering the entire bottle useless. 
That is why it’s imperative that you 
have a huge stock of these poorly 
designed products. 
Of course, you could buy normal 
sunscreen that requires being rubbed 
in, but who are we kidding? Nobody 
has time to sit around, greasing 
themselves up with such a time-
consuming, arduous task like applying 
sunscreen. Y ou’re better than that. 
Invest in a large stock of spray-on 
sunscreen to survive the ferociously 
hot Santa Ana winds, because baby, 
you’re worth it.
As you head to your first class, 
accidentally step onto the shuttle that 
heads down to La Jolla Shores. As you 
sit in the bus, gaze absentmindedly 
out the window, taking in the 
beautiful blue sky and windy palm 
trees. Y ou should really study for 
your calculus test. Oops, you’re at the 
beach now. It would be a shame to go 
straight to class from here.
The final step is to go ahead and 
rip off your clothes — revealing your 
favorite swimsuit (which, of course, 
you’ve been wearing all day). Now 
run straight into the gleaming beach 
waters. Don’t stop to think about 
nitpicky little details about your work 
duties or academic responsibilities. 
Midterms can wait. Essays can wait. 
The sun will not wait for your return, 
if you spend this precious week locked 
in the basement of the Geisel or 
Biomed Library. 
Next week will be spent frantically 
catching up on all your overdue 
homework assignments. For now, 
break out the bikinis and pina coladas. 
There’s only so much we can do in 
these dangerous desert winds. Lying 
on the beach is one simple precaution. 
Life is short, and Santa Ana winds 
don’t come out every day.ILLUSTRA TION   B Y  CHRISTINA  CARLSON
The LGBT Community Has a Stronger V oice Through 
its Solidarity and Unification as an Intersectional Group
Grouping all LGBT people together creates a certain sense of solidarity, a 
unification of people all fighting for their own rights alongside others’ . But in 
a population with varying sexual orientations and gender identities, progress 
can’t exactly be described on the scale of the entire LGBT community, because 
advances made in terms of sexual orientation and of gender can’t always be 
grouped together.
GLAAD and the Human Rights Campaign, according to The Advocate, 
unanimously rejected a petition to separate the T from LGBT — and for 
good reason. The petition demonstrates an attempt to erase the transgender 
community, to invalidate it and to discard it through transphobic assertions, 
such as the claim that allowing trans people to use bathrooms of the gender 
identity with which they identify will lead to assaults in the bathroom.
But the question of dividing the LGBT community  should be discussed for 
the sake of highlighting the state of visibility — or lack thereof — in the LGBT 
community of 2016.
This past year, prominent public LGBT figures like Caitlyn Jenner, Ellen Page 
and Laverne Cox have given rise to transgender and gay rights awareness. Shows 
like “Orange is the New Black” and “Transparent” and movies like “Tangerine” 
further launch multidimensional LGBT characters into the public sphere, which 
is revolutionary given the historically weak roles for LGBT characters.
But the problem lies with who isn’t seen, which is certainly the more-than-
twenty trans people who were murdered in 2015, a higher number than in any 
other year. Just last week, Kayden Clarke, a transgender man with Asperger’s 
was killed by police after they came to his house following a suicide call. Even 
afterward, he was misgendered by media sources, showing that while there have 
been advancements for gay rights and for transgender rights, there is certainly 
a greater lack of understanding of the T in LGBT , and this is — at least in part 
— due to it being overshadowed by the three letters preceding it. Of course, this 
relates back to a stagnation in the progress of transgender rights; cases like these 
don’t elicit the same reaction as, say, the lesbian couple kicked out of a Hawaii 
gas station for showing affection. Both should elicit a sense of anger because of 
the overwhelming bigotry of the situation, but only one did.
Whether LGBT or LGB, there is certainly work to be done by the LGB 
community and beyond to truly stand in solidarity with members of the 
transgender community as one and not merely concern themselves with rights 
that pertain to sexuality. 
 — QUINN PIEPER
                              Staff Writer“T” and “LGB” May Help to Highlight the Differences 
Between Sexual Orientation and Gender Identities Educa ting the World
in California
The LGBT community has more to gain by staying together than by 
splitting apart. For one, there’s a strong history of support between the gay 
rights movement and the transgender rights movement. It is no secret that 
Sylvia Rivera and Marsha P . Johnson were at the forefront of the Stonewall 
Riots that started the gay rights movement.
These individuals were also two gender nonconformists and part of the 
transgender rights movement. Several years earlier, the gay community 
had been supporting the transgender community in the same way. On the 
night of the Compton riots, which was one of the first transgender civil 
rights riots in U.S. history, members of the gay community were present at 
the scene, picketing alongside their transgender peers. 
It’s no coincidence that the histories of these movements intertwine so 
strongly, and that they are still linked today. Although being gay, lesbian 
or bisexual is different than being transgender, the issues that these groups 
confront are similar. 
All members of the LGBT community face challenges like coming out, 
harassment in public spaces and discrimination. Since there is so much 
intersection between the issues that the transgender community and 
the LGB community face, there’s a lot of support and solidarity flowing 
between the two communities. 
This includes encouragement for individuals and supports community 
backing of social and political reform. As diverse minority groups, it is 
beneficial for both of them to join forces and combine their strength as a 
unified community. 
According to the Williams Institute Study in 2011, 3.5 percent of the 
United States population identifies as lesbian, gay or bisexual, while 0.3 
percent identify as transgender. When facing tough situations, it’s crucial 
to form a strong, compassionate community. Thus, it would be counterin -
tuitive to cut an already-small LGBT community into two movements.
If these arguments aren’t enough, the LGBT community itself has put 
its voice on this side of the conversation. In response to the Change.org 
petition called “Drop the T, ” the Human Rights Campaign, Lambda Legal 
and GLAAD, organizations at the forefront of the LGBT rights movement, 
have each written responses denouncing the petition. As these responses 
point out, the root of these issues is hatred and misunderstanding, which 
is better confronted by a united LGBT movement. 
 — AYAT AMIN
                              S enior Staff Writer
 CASSIA POLLOCKOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 8, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
proposed state budget plans are 
expected to provide an additional 
$356 million to the UC system, a 4.7 
percent increase from last year. While 
Brown has made promises to keep 
in-state tuition constant over the the 
next two years, out-of-state students 
may not be so fortunate. In the UC 
2016–17 Budget Plan, a $25 million 
grant from the state to support 
undergraduate enrollment appears to 
be a step forward until considering 
an increased enrollment of 5,000 
more Californian undergraduates by 
2016–17 Fall quarter. 
An element lost in this budget 
plan is the quality of living and education. While it may be possible to 
squish more students into UC schools, 
seeing quadruples replace triples in 
on-campus housing will not provide 
the ideal environment for students to 
learn, much less enjoy their college 
experience. While focusing on cost 
is key, paying attention to the space 
allocated for student living spaces 
is also important.  The UC college 
system should ask if it should house 
more students rather than asking if 
it can. 
In an ideal world, the UC system 
would be free to all California 
students, and hardworking 
students would be able to reap the 
benefits of attending a UC campus. 
Unfortunately, this is not the case, and each decision, whether to increase 
enrollment space or limit out-of-state 
student enrollment, entails tradeoffs. 
Increasing enrollment space often 
comes at the price of creating cramped 
conditions for student living and 
offers a subpar college experience. 
Limiting out-of-state enrollment 
removes a significant source of income 
for the UCs. With over one-fifth of 
students at UCSD being out-of-state 
or international students, perhaps it 
may be time to curb the growth of 
out-of-state and international student 
enrollment from increasing another 
684 percent over the next 10 years.
SURVEY
asce.ucsd .eduTake the ASCE En tertainment Sur vey.
Give input on wh at kind of events, music 
genres, and arti sts you want to see. This 
survey determines wh at arti sts ASCE 
selects for Sun God Festival, Hullabalo o, 
and other concerts th roughout the year. Make sure your
voice is hea rd! 
For que stions, contact avpconcerts@ucsd .edu.http://studentvoice.com/ucsd/asceentertainment1516WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
More Out-of-State Enrollment May Negatively Impact Quality of Education.
▶ ENROLLMENT from page 4
ALEXANDER  CHEN 
LIKE US ON
 FACEBOOK
facebook.com/ucsdguardian6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 8, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
ALLISON  KUBO
features@ucsdguardian.org
Sunshades: an everyday product for our cars that most of 
us don’t think twice about. Y et that’s what inspired ERC 
senior Justin Sik Cho to develop his own startup.
“I was walking through Muir parking lot one day and 
I saw a row of cars with the traditional manual sunshades 
that students were using, and I just thought ‘a lot of people 
aren’t using these sunshades to keep their cars cool, ’ and I 
wondered why, ” Cho told the UCSD Guardian. “So I talked 
to some of these people who weren’t using sunshades, even 
people who were using them, and asked if they had any 
issues with them. I found that using a manual, traditional 
sunshade was a lot of work, with the propping open and 
closing, and took a lot of time, especially if they [students] 
were late for class or for work. ” 
Recognizing the opportunity this presented him, Cho went 
to work creating a solution. The result, which Cho and a team 
of three engineers are currently working on, is called Shaze, 
a sunshade meant to overcome the inconvenience of manual 
sunshades by deploying automatically at the flick of a switch.
Cho is not the only UCSD student trying to break out 
with an innovation; many other students are taking the 
entrepreneurial path as well, some creating physical products, 
while others find their calling in software instead. Marshall 
College junior Phillip Duong, for instance, found his niche in 
a social media app called Penguin, which he conceived as a 
result of a profound, personal experience.
“I actually suffered from depression last year and it was 
hard for me to talk to my friends about what I was going 
through, ” Duong told the Guardian. “I needed to vent my 
problems or talk to someone who could relate to me. ”
Unlike other social media apps such as Tinder and 
Snapchat, Penguin focuses specifically on bringing together 
people who are introverted or have a hard time reaching out 
to others. One of the aspects of the app that stands out is 
the lack of emphasis on profile pictures, a mainstay of social media. What it emphasizes instead is the sharing of ideas 
and personal experiences. Furthermore, all users remain 
anonymous unless they choose to reveal their identity to a 
specific person.
“Instead of swiping on people’s pictures, you’re swiping on 
people’s notes, experiences, posts and stuff like that, ” Duong 
explained. “That way we don’t focus on people’s physical 
appearance; we’re focusing on what people actually want to 
talk about. ”
Duong and Cho, though motivated, needed more 
resources than they themselves could come up with if 
they were going to get their ideas off the ground, as do all 
entrepreneurs. This extra assistance came from The Basement, 
an on-campus organization dedicated to “incubating” new 
enterprises, providing them connections and mentorship; 
Alumni and Community Engagement, an organization that 
encourages alumni to contribute to the UCSD community, 
opened The Basement last February with the stated purpose 
of fostering innovation at UCSD and in accordance with 
Chancellor Khosla’s emphasis on entrepreneurship. The 
organization started on a strong note, attracting 200 “Seeker” 
students and 21 teams in its first quarter of operation.
To work with The Basement, prospective entrepreneurs 
fill out an application with their idea; if the administrators 
from ACE see potential in it, they approve it. Once approved, 
students can use The Basement’s working space, the basement 
of Mandeville Hall, to work on their projects. In addition, the 
organization offers seminars by mentors and guest speakers 
from a variety of professional backgrounds and who are 
experienced in the world of entrepreneurship.
“The Basement is pretty cool in that they provide all 
these opportunities for entrepreneurs like me to learn more 
about what it’s like to be an entrepreneur and what it takes to 
succeed, ” Cho said.
Beyond mentoring and business acumen, entrepreneurs need financial backing to make their ideas grow. While The 
Basement provides advice and support to fundraise, students 
must raise funds on their own. To meet this need, the new 
generation of entrepreneurs is relying increasingly on online 
platforms to fund and promote their products. Perhaps 
the most prominent website for startups is Kickstarter, a 
crowdfunding website started in 2009. It was there that April 
Estrada, a Muir College alumna, helped her friend Dennis 
Caco launch The Undress in 2014. The Undress, a dress which 
allows women to discreetly change clothes in public, raised 
more than $615,000 to become the website’s most funded 
women’s fashion product.
“When I came onboard for The Undress it was initially 
to work on our first Kickstarter, ” Estrada told the Guardian. 
“Through the process of us going through the Kickstarter, and 
before we launched the campaign, my friend Dennis asked 
if I would be interested in becoming a business partner. I 
didn’t know 100 percent what I was getting into but there was 
something inside of me that said ‘Y ou should take this chance, 
there’s something in this that you’ll be able to grow from and 
learn from. ’”
Though launching a startup entails several challenges, 
keeping it together after the launch can be equally 
troublesome. After financing the project, the next biggest 
hurdle is putting together a team that works well together; the 
relationship among team members is a critical factor that can 
make or break a fledgling enterprise.
“Before this startup, I tried about two other startups 
and our team eventually just fell apart because we weren’t 
compatible with each other, ” Duong said. “I feel like your team 
is like you’re building a family together and your co-founders 
are pretty much your partners. Y ou have to trust each other 
and work things out to move forward. ”Starting Up: Entrepreneurship at UCSD
For some students, having a stable job after college isn’t enough. Rather than work for an established company, they prefer to forge their own path toward 
success. The UCSD Guardian spoke to some of these up and coming innovators in order to understand the entrepreneurial environment at UCSD.
See ENTREPRENEURSHIP ,, page 8by Oliver Kelton // Editorial Assistant  
illustration by Christina CarlsonFEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 8, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
UCSD can be stressful. As students, we have to balance our time to make sure we are 
involved in enough extracurriculars yet still get enough sleep to manage our grades. 
Students fight through each quarter, day by day, with countless thoughts of how to avoid 
feeling hopeless when they graduate. And with the number of college applicants increasing each 
year, a college degree will soon become the equivalent of a high school diploma, creating even 
more competition among students. Here at UCSD, a variety of resources are offered at the Career 
Center such as job preparation and networking tips; the center aims to support every student 
through a wide range of services and events to help develop their professional skills. One of the 
more popular events is the career fair, an event held every quarter where recruiters from different 
companies come to find and hire the university’s most brilliant students. However, how effective is 
it really for students looking for a job post-graduation?
As students walked into the ballroom, they saw the looks of angst among fellow career fair 
attendees holding onto their resumes, their eyes darting around for the shortest line at the 
company booths. Employers experienced a similar feeling, some of whom were fidgety after seeing 
the long line of students waiting for them, while others sweat profusely. 
During the second week of winter quarter, students from the Cognitive Ethnography course, 
the study of human behavior and culture, set off to start their class assignment by attending the 
fair as observers. Rather than looking for a job, their job was to survey activity at the career fair 
and evaluate how the fair functions for participants in terms of interactions between students and 
employers, as well as spatial layout and traffic flow.
Nan Renner is currently teaching the course. Her enthusiasm for distributed cognition, the 
theory that cognitive processes extend beyond the brain, comes from her lengthy experience 
working at the San Diego Natural History Museum. She has guided students toward seeing their 
world through different perspectives. To do so, she encourages her students to engage in projects 
such as taking photographs of people doing an activity, conducting interviews with strangers and 
making audio recordings; she hopes that students can use the skills they learned in the course and 
apply them to the career fair.
“Our project studying people at the career fair required that students slow down and observe, 
not to inform their own actions, but to discover relationships and patterns in human behavior 
in a designed environment, ” Renner told the the UCSD Guardian. “In addition to developing 
observational skills, this project provides an experience that contrasts with an upcoming project in 
which students will study behavior using video recording. By comparing observational methods of 
activity while it is happening versus recorded on video, students should understand the pros and 
cons of each of these approaches. ”
One of the students in the Cognitive Ethnography course is Revelle College sophomore 
Isaac Fehr, research assistant at The Design Lab. He considers the current career fair to be very 
inefficient because most of the students’ attention is solely focused on popular companies. 
“The lines at the popular booths are so long that most people only talk to one or two employers, 
but then hardly anyone goes to the rest of the booths, ” Fehr told the Guardian. “Big companies 
conduct their booths in one of two very slow ways: one-on-one talks, which take too long for 
most people to get a chance at the companies they’ d like to work for, or group briefing and resume 
collecting, which is no better than looking at their website and emailing them your resume. ”
Other students, like Eleanor Roosevelt College junior Nick Dudeck, gained valuable insight 
on how spatial organization affects an individual’s perception of the job market. He advocates for changes in future career fairs, as the current setup is inefficient for all involved, from students to 
staff to employers.
“I would recommend that for future fairs, organization of the tables be positioned in such a 
way that does not cause traffic and long lines, ” Dudeck told the Guardian. “I observed that a lot 
of students left the booths either in high spirits about their real-world capabilities, or discouraged 
and flummoxed in their own self-image. ”
Currently, the program coordinators are gathering feedback by conducting surveys to create 
more successful events in the future. There were around 1,700 students in attendance along with 
over 70 companies, such as Target and GoFundMe, at the 2016 winter Career Fair. Wil Dyer, the 
interim director at the Career Services Center, organized the collaboration between the Cognitive 
Science Department, The Design Lab and Career Center and said he wishes to support the 
students, alumni and employers of UCSD by improving the overall Career Center experience.
“Part of the vision for this is to reimagine the work we do at the Career Center and take a 
holistic, honest look at what we can enhance to ensure the professional success and mobility of 
our students, ” Dyer told the Guardian. “When students, alumni and companies have positive 
experiences, they are more likely to stay connected to the university for years to come. Students 
become grateful alumni, begin working for a company and advocate for their company to 
recruit from UC San Diego, creating not only grateful students and alumni, but a stronger 
alumni network and long-lasting, mutually beneficial relationship between UC San Diego and 
our top employers. ”
Improving the career fair is no easy task, but Dyer, who attended the fair himself, envisions this 
partnership as the first step to improving events hosted by the Career Center. 
“It’s no secret that students, career centers and companies all share the overwhelming 
sentiment that career fairs need to change, ” Dyer added. “Our goal right now is to identify the pain 
points of all parties and strategically prioritize the things we can improve or change to enhance the 
entire career fair experience. While we are still identifying the pain points right now, I can say a 
few obvious ones are lines, student-employer interactions and crowds/congestion in the venues. ”
Students like Fehr hope to use skills they learn in their courses to eliminate biases in future 
events by keeping interactions as objective as possible.
“In my observation, the male employers paid way more attention to potential employees who 
are attractive women than those who aren’t, ” Fehr said. “ At several booths, the representatives 
would be zoning out while talking to male candidates, then much more alert and in a better mood 
as soon as a female [student] would walk up. ”
Renner will end the COGS 102 series by supporting students in a team project for the the 
Cognitive Design Studio course, which will be either evaluating a prototype application or 
redesigning an existing system.
“Design challenges and opportunities can be found anywhere, on and off campus — 
dining halls, libraries, classrooms, outdoor spaces and more, ” Renner said. “Based on skillful 
observations, students may discover how to make improvements, for example, to improve 
learning, enhance enjoyment and/or create places that are more inclusive of diverse perspectives 
and life experiences. ”Starting Up: Entrepreneurship at UCSD
Al vin  CHan  alchan@ucsd.edu     Readers can contactUsing their observational skills, Cognitive Ethnography students got a behind-the-scenes look at the Career Fair.People W a tching: 
Career F air Edition
by  Alvin Chan // Staff Writer  | illustration by Christina Carlson8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 8, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
Though the entrepreneurs 
emphasized the importance of 
campus resources, they did note that 
there is room for improvement. In 
particular, they discussed the current, 
disjoined management of The 
Basement at UCSD.
“I know some people who work at 
The Basement, and everything at The 
Basement now is unorganized, and 
there’s not a lot of good mentorship 
going on, ” Duong said. “I feel like 
currently, entrepreneurship at UCSD 
is kind of in limbo, and everyone’s 
on their own. ”
“Since it is a new program, 
there are a lot of things that are 
lacking about it — one being that 
it is a working space but there are 
no computers provided for us or 
any materials provided for us that 
a typical entrepreneur might need 
to work on his or her project, ” 
Cho added. “So basically The 
Basement provides an empty space 
for students to work but the lack of 
resources they have actually in The 
Basement kind of makes it so that 
students aren’t willing to actually go 
and work there. ”
Nevertheless, the entrepreneurs 
were quick to note that there are 
many helpful resources on campus 
beyond The Basement. For instance, 
Cho’s team of engineers made use of 
Geisel Library’s Digital Media Lab to 
build prototypes.
“Before the invention of 3-D 
printers, we would have to get the 
raw materials ourselves and make it 
out of wood or plastic or whatever 
we needed, ” Cho said. “ At the Digital 
Media Lab they allow students to use the 3-D printers for free, and they give you all 
the materials you need. They even have mentors 
there to tell you whether everything is working right 
or not. ”
Furthermore, they noted that hands-on classes 
at UCSD were instrumental in teaching them the 
fundamentals of founding a startup. Estrada found 
that the courses she took during her time at UCSD 
taught her many skills that would help her manage 
The Undress.
“The great thing about the curriculum is that 
a lot of our assignments were project-based and 
particularly [involved] working with teams, ” Estrada 
said. “That was a huge help in learning how to work 
with people and communicating, especially when it 
came to having very short deadlines, being able to 
be flexible and consider everyone around you and 
what their role can be in achieving your goal. ”
Cho added that his courses at UCSD were what 
made him first consider becoming an entrepreneur, 
recognizing Professor Nathan Delson from the Jacobs 
School of Engineering as a significant influence.
“When I came to UC San Diego I didn’t have any 
thoughts about being an entrepreneur, but taking a lot 
of these engineering courses inspired me, ” Cho said. 
“Dr. Delson is one of the professors who really pushed 
for entrepreneurship, and [after] taking one of his 
classes I was really inspired to try to go out there and 
create something myself — not just having to work for 
a traditional company, but just doing something for 
myself - what I love to do. ”
Ultimately, the entrepreneurs stressed that their 
environment has been crucial to their growth as 
innovators and business leaders.
“The best thing is to surround yourself with 
successful people, ” Estrada said. “That helps 
encourage you to take more risks and be willing to 
put yourself out there and really learn what it takes 
to be successful from people who’ve been there. 
They can give you advice for how to achieve your 
goals, what kind of things to avoid and help inspire 
you to follow your own dreams and your own goals, 
for yourself and for your business. ”
Student Entrepreneurs Have Access to On-Campus Resources including The Basement and the Digital Media Lab
Oliver  Kel ton   Okelton@ucsd.edu     Readers can contact▶ ENTREPRENEURSHIP ,  from page 6
Find   out  more 
ucsdguardian.orgONLINE
Follow us on Twitter 
@UCSDGUARDIAN
.com/ucsdguardian
@UCSDGUARDIANItching to 
Double Tap?
PHOTO BY JONATHAN GAO/ GUARDIAN
PHOTO BY SHERMAN ALINE / GUARDIANCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 8, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
 BLACK HISTORY MONTH FILM SERIES: DOPE
PRICE CENTER THEATER • PC EAST • BLACKHISTORYMONTH.UCSD.EDUFRIDAY 2.12 • 7:30pmTahrirCAMPUS
CALENDAR
FEB 08 - FEB 142016 POWERED BY THE CHANCELLOR’S OFFICE AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guardian
Calenda r
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdg uardian.orgWED 2.10 TUE 2.09
10am
UCSD STUDENT FOUNDATION: SEA OF GIVING- 
LIBRARY WALK
The UCSD Student Foundation brings you Sea of 
Giving: Student Engagement and Philanthropy 
month. Every Wednesday will have a new event for 
both donors and non-donors alike! February 3rd: 
Awareness Day, blocks 1982-1985 February 10th: 
Gratitude Day, block 1991 February 17th: Giving 
Day, blocks 1994-1997 February 24th: Meet the 
Boss, the Basement Make sure to come out to learn 
about how you can give and learn from experienced 
business professionals at Meet the Boss!
11am
BODY COMPOSITION ANALYSIS - THE ZONE
Walk in for your free analysis which includes: body 
weight, percentage body fat, total body water, and 
blood pressure. One free assessment per quarter is 
available to registered UCSD students. For more 
information visit: 
http://studenthealth.ucsd.edu/bodycomposition.sht
ml
11am
ALL YOU NEED IS LOVE- THE ZONE, PRICE 
CENTER
Come to the Zone to participate in fun and 
interactive activities that help you develop and 
maintain healthy relationships. Giveaways for 
participants (while supplies last). Brought to you by 
the Student Health Advocates. In partnership with 
CAPS, CARE at SARC, SHS, & HPS.
2pm
COMMUNICATING LOVE AND APPRECIATION IN 
RELATIONSHIPS - WARREN COLLEGE ROOM, 
PC WEST, LVL 3
Part of iLead Program (Must be a registered 
participant to attend): *Two Stamp Event*"How do 
you tell people in your life that you love and 
appreciate them? Learn about the power of 
appreciating others. Using Gary Chapman’s Five 
Love Languages, participants will learn about the 
different styles for giving and receiving love, learn 
about cultural differences in expressing love and 
appreciation, identify their own primary love 
language, and gain insight into the love languages of 
parents, friends and partners. After taking this 
workshop you will be better able to show important 
people in your life that you care in a way that they 
will understand." Presented by Tiffany O'Meara, 
PhD, Counseling Psychologist, Counseling and 
Psychology Services. Contact: mhg005@ucsd.edu. 
Website: 
http://students.ucsd.edu/student-life/involvement/co
mmunication-leadership/ilead.htmlFRI2.12
10am
FITNESS ZONE: CORE FIT- THE ZONE, PRICE 
CENTER
A strong body starts with a strong core. Improve your 
overall fitness and performance by training your abs, 
back, chest and hips. This 30min class is a great 
combo with a cardio workout, or as a bundle with 
Bootcamp. Get strong, get fit, get core fit! Lead by 
FitLife instructor Tiffany Caddell.
12pm
INTERNATIONAL FRIDAY CAFE - 
INTERNATIONAL CENTER PATIO
The Friday Cafe provides a venue where 
international and domestic students, scholars, 
faculty, staff and the local community can come 
together to celebrate cultural diversity and 
international education. Each week the Friday Cafe 
presents the opportunity to explore world cultures, 
cuisines, music and more. Join us for this unique 
international experience! Price: $5 per plate Contact: 
maiEguchi@mail.ucsd.edu (858) 822-5328
2pm
R&R SQUAD - THE ZONE
Drop-in and get a low intensity back rub from the 
R&R Squad! Questions? Contact The Zone at 
zone@ucsd.edu
7:30pm
BLACK HISTORY MONTH FILM SERIES: DOPE - 
PRICE CENTER THEATER
The Black History Month Planning Commitee and 
University Centers Presents a screening of Dope as 
the second movie in our Black History Month Film 
Series! The Screening will be held at the Price 
Center Theatre on February 12! FREE Doors: 7 PM  
Show: 7:30 PM10am
FITNESS ZONE: ANIMAL FLOW YOGA- THE 
ZONE, PRICE CENTER
Continuous body weight movements to improve 
strength, stamina, mobility, and agility. This animal 
instinct workout is a new and fun way to bring out 
your playful side while improving your body's 
function. Lead by FitLife instructor Cassey Marsh
3pm
R&R SQUAD - THE ZONE
Drop-in and get a low intensity back rub from the 
R&R Squad! Questions? Contact The Zone at 
zone@ucsd.edu
7pm
LUNAR NEW YEAR CELEBRATION- SIXTH 
COLLEGE LODGE QUAD
Attendees will be greeted by the beautiful sight of 
lights and lanterns to celebrate the Lunar New Year. 
There will be booths lined up in the Sixth College 
Lodge Quad similar to a night market. Booths 
outside the Lodge focus on countries and there are 
more arts and crafts inside including lantern and 
button making. There will be performances and 
FREE FOOD throughout the night. Come celebrate 
with us Tuesday, February 9th from 7-9pm!!
9pm
MOVIE NIGHT: THE PEANUTS MOVIE - PRICE 
CENTER THEATER 
UNISEM is bringing The Peanuts Movie to UCSD for 
FREE! Come out with friends for a night of fun filled 
with laughter, joy, and FREE popcorn. Contact: 
unisem@ucsd.edu Website: 
http://www.facebook.com/events/91764750828454
2/
THU 2.11
10am
MEDITATION- THE ZONE
Join us for a guided meditation where you can: 
Gain greater mental clarity, Achieve a peaceful 
state of being, Learn techniques to de-stress, 
Achieve harmony amid cognitive dissonance.
1:30pm
THERAPY FLUFFIES - THE ZONE
Come de-stress and play with and pet therapy 
dogs at The Zone!
6pm
STUDENTS AGAINST MASS INCARCERATION 
GBM SERIES- UCSD COMMUNITY RESOURCE 
CENTERS
This quarter SAMI is hosting GBMs at the five 
community centers on campus! Each meeting we 
will discuss the prison industrial complex and 
mass incarceration by focusing on issues specific 
to the community that week. Please join us at 
these events for discussion and to learn more 
about what SAMI does! Week 6 2/11 6PM - WC 
Week 7 2/17 6PM - BRC Week 8 2/24 6PM - 
LGBTRC Week 10 3/9 6PM - CCCMON 2.08
11am
ART & SOUL: VALENTINE'S GRAHAMS- THE 
ZONE, PRICE CENTER
Workshops are free; all supplies and materials 
provided. Space is limited and is first come, first 
served.
2pm
SWEET POTATO-PEANUT BISQUE- THE ZONE, 
PRICE CENTER
Come join us as we make Sweet Potato Peanut 
Bisque hosted by the Christine McNamara, the 
Student Health Services Registered Dietitian) and get 
FREE samples! Materials and ingredients are 
provided. Space is limited, first come, first served.
Contact: zone@ucsd.edu
5pm
AA CAMPUS MEETING- THE ZONE
Open AA Meeting held at the Zone every Monday 
from 5:00 PM- 6:00 PM. Questions? Contact the 
Zone at zone@ucsd.edu
5pm
JAZZ IN PARIS INFO SESSION - JOIN US FOR 
PIZZA!- INTERNATIONAL CENTER LOUNGE
In celebration of Black History Month, the 
International Center will be hosting a special info 
session for the Jazz in Paris Global Seminar! Join us 
for pizza and learn about this unique summer study 
abroad program. Students will hear from professor 
Cecil Lytle about the program and the African 
American jazz pioneers in Paris that the program will 
follow. RSVP to the email address provided!
SAT & SUN
2.13 & 2.14For more information, visit
blackhistorymonth.ucsd.eduCELEBRATING BLACK
HISTORY MONTH
10am
WINTER GAMEFEST 2016- PRICE CENTER 
BALLROOMS
UCSD's Sixth College Technology Committee 
proudly present to you Winter GameFest 2016, 
the 11th iteration of SoCal's largest student run, 
non-profit LAN. Our goal is to provide both 
students and non-students alike with the 
opportunity to experience a large scale eSports 
event. We strive to promote and demystify the 
video gaming culture, on top of providing a 
friendly, social, and tech-oriented atmosphere for 
everybody to enjoy. Tournaments, classic arcade 
games, raffles, and demo stations from 
companies and student orgs are all featured at 
Winter Gamefest, not to mention planned panels 
from industry professionals. Free entry to all. 
Find more info on our website.
10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 8, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDS$
Gua rdian Classifieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedscrossword
Across
 1 Cancun cash
 5 Major criminal
 10 Payment option
 14 Culture base
 15 Graff of “Mr. Belvedere”
 16 Aware of
 17 Apprentice in a keyboard 
repair shop?
 20 Numerical ending
 21 Take in food
 22 Purloined
 23 Cave dweller of folklore
 25 Keebler employee?
 28 Cubic meter
 29 Beginner: var.
 30 Mexican sayonara
 32 Former Sov. unit
 33 Some salts
 35 Five kings of Norway
 38 Apprentice in an orchestra?
 42 Mall unit
 43 Yearns for
 45 Mach+ plane
 48 Discernment
 50 Ballesteros of golf
 51 French capital
 54 Mil. honor
 55 Warning sound
 56 Prophetic shrine
 58 One in Madrid
 60 Full-house letters
 61 Apprentice at the humane 
society?
 65 Stadium level
 66 Solos for Sills
 67 Mrs. Chaplin
 68 Insolence
 69 Biblical food
 70 Old FordsDown
 1 Painter’s board
 2 Self-indulgent sprees
 3 Carpenter’s support
 4 Smeltery input
 5 Paycheck deduction fig.
 6 Overjoyed
 7 Guitarist Paul
 8 Single entity
 9 Current events
 10 French artist
 11 Low joints
 12 Mans the helm
 13 Nursery-rhyme Jack
 18 Sis or bro
 19 NBA tie-breakers
 24 Weaver’s frames
 26 Pride member
 27 Throw in cards
 30 Fancy tie
 31 Gravy
 34 Cambridge sch.
 36 TV adjunct
 37 East German secret police
 39 Toward the mouth
 40 Missed long
 41 Cleric’s title
 44 Ladies of Spain
 45 Gushes forth
 46 Ontario city
 47 Makes an even exchange
 49 Bird with a big beak
 52 Bakery employees
 53 Camera letters
 55 Drunkard
 57 Wax-wrapped cheese
 59 ESA’s partner on the ISS
 62 __ pro nobis
 63 Card game
 64 Fig. listBIKES
6 Sp Ladies Beach Cruiser - $125. Nice ladies 
six-speed bike. Everything on it is in very 
good working order. Listing ID: 232898695 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Next Bike - $25. Brakes work well. Just need 
air in tires. Has a clean seat. Listing ID: 
232898694 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Razor BMX Bike - $100. Hasn’t been used 
in a long time. Everything works well. Tires 
just need some air. Price negotiable. Listing 
ID: 232898693 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
ELECTRONICS
Smart Wheel Balance - $350. Brand new! 
Never been ridden. Comes with remote 
and blue carrying case. Need to sell quickly. 
Listing ID: 232898772 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Sony MDR-1A Over the Ear Headphones - 
$200. In pristine condition. Excellent, high-
res, quality sound. Selling because I have 
enough headphones as it is. Retail for $300. Listing ID: 232898767 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Brand New Beats Pill 2.0 - $125. Sealed in 
factory packaging. Beats by Dre limited 
edition camouflage pill. Shady Records edi -
tion with black and grey grill. Listing ID: 
232898756 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
FURNITURE
Dining Kitchen Table - $425. Marble top 
dining table. Comes with six chairs. Listing 
ID: 232898798 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
Vintage Tulip Chairs Fiberglass and Metal - 
$225. Vintage tulip chairs. Have fiberglass 
shells and metal swivel base. Terrific condi -
tion for their age. Easy to recover the cush -
ions to match your decor. A bit of scuffing 
on the metal bases. Listing ID: 232898794 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Six-Drawer Dresser - $60. Sturdy and in 
attractive condition. All drawers work 
well. Slight scratches on top. Listing ID: 
232898782 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
tyour vision,
our miss ion.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel to 
promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!www.ucsdguardian.org/advertising
#OMG 
#LIKE US
#FOLLOW US
@ucsdgua rdian
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
Karmonize.org  is a student organization
where we can support good causes,
cooperate, and volunteer to
improve the UCSD community.+(/3 27+(56, ),1' +(/3
:+(1 <28 1((' ,7, $1'
0$.( .$50$ 5($/
SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 8, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
sovac @ucsd.eduDolores Huerta - Philip Vera Cruz Room
Feb 16 • 6 - 8pm • Free FoodThe UCSD women’s water polo 
team took a loss against University 
of Southern California in a non-
conference matchup this past Friday 
at Uytengsu Aquatics Center, falling 
with a considerable score di fference 
of 17–4. 
The Tritons haven’t played the 
Trojans since 2011 during the 
UC Irvine Invitational when they 
defeated the Trojans handily 14–5. 
Prior to entering this match, the 
Trojans’ second following their 
opener last Friday, the Tritons were 
7–10 against the Trojans in all-time 
games; now their all-time ranking has fallen to 7–11 in favor of the 
Trojans. UCSD is ranked nationally 
at No.19 while USC is ranked at 
No. 3 by the California Water Polo 
Association’s  national poll. 
Heading into the game, the 
Tritons knew that it would not be an 
easy battle, but they de finitely knew 
that they had the arsenal to compete 
against the Trojans. Redshirt junior 
Alexis Wieseler, junior Lauren 
Boyer, and senior Julia Kirkland 
have all started o ff this season strong 
as they have all combined for a 
total of five hat tricks already since 
the start of the season, which they 
started only five games ago. Senior 
goalie Courtney Miller had returned 
this season just as fired up as she had ended the last season, holding both 
school records for most saves in her 
career and in a season. 
The match started o ff well for 
the Trojans as they jumped o ff 
to an early 4–0 lead before the 
Tritons could even respond with 
a goal. Boyer was able to shut 
down the Trojans’ hot streak when 
she managed to bury one home 
for the Tritons, closing down the 
deficit. The Trojans wouldn’t have 
any of it though, and they lashed 
back by scoring two more goals to 
make the de ficit increase to 6–1 
before the end of the quarter. The 
following quarter was something 
of a nightmare for the Tritons as 
they were completely shut out, unable to score a single goal while 
the Trojans were able to score three 
more. Hal ftime came around with 
the Trojans leading the Tritons with 
a comfortable lead of 9–1. 
Wieseler came out of the hal ftime 
able to sink in the first goal of the 
second half for the Tritons, making 
it seem like things might actually 
turn around. Their hopes, however, 
were shattered as the Trojans scored 
four more goals before the quarter 
ended. The Tritons started o ff the the 
fourth and final quarter in hopes of a 
huge comeback, trailing 13–2. 
Ultimately, it didn’t happen. 
The Tritons were outscored by 
the Trojans 2–4 during the final 
quarter and ended up with sizeable score di fference of 17–4. Both goals 
scored during the fourth quarter 
were also by Wieseler, who was able 
to score a hat trick over the course 
of the match. 
The Tritons have a week o ff to 
recover from this loss and before 
they host Cal State East Bay this 
upcoming Friday, Feb. 12th for 
a match at 6 p.m. in the RIMAC 
Arena. Following this, the Tritons 
are in for a busy weekend as they 
host the two-day Triton Invitational 
on Feb. 13–14. The first match for 
the Tritons during the Invitational 
will be against Indiana, starting o ff 
on Saturday, Feb. 13 at 9:20 a.m. W. W A TER  POLO
After a Strong Start to the Season, UCSD Falls to USC Trojans 
No. 3 Trojans take early lead in the game and go up by eight goals at halftime to hold off the No. 19 Tritons during the second period.
BY  G u r k i r a t  S i n g h
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE / GUARDIANgurkira t singh     SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
MARCUS THUILLIER
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 8, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
Game One
No. 21 UCSD men’s tennis hosted 
and defeated No. 26 Point Loma on 
Wednesday with a final score of 8–1.
Senior Axel Bouillin, ranked the 
15th-best singles player in the nation, 
took on Point Loma’s senior Andre 
Staab, ranked directly underneath 
as the 16th-best singles player, in 
what became the matchup of the 
day. Bouillin won the first set 6–1, 
followed by Staab taking the second 
set, but Bouillin came back in the 
tiebreaker with a score of 10–6.
Sophomore Eric Tseng, sophomore 
Justin Zhang, senior Horea Porutiu 
and junior Alexandre Miaule all 
had their way in the singles matches 
as well, winning in straight sets. 
Freshman Richard Han also won a fter 
being pressed into a tiebreaker. In doubles, Miaule and 
Porutiu beat out their opponents 8–6 for the No. 2 place, 
while Tseng and Zhang completely dominated 8–0 for No. 3.
In the end, UCSD had a magni ficent showing, winning 
all six singles matches and two out of three doubles 
matches. The only loss was when Bouillin and freshman 
Rodrigo Amara were defeated by the 25th-ranked Point 
Loma pair of Staab and senior Daniel Milliken for the No. 
1 spot.
Game Two
UCSD went 5–4 against No. 11 Azusa Paci fic this past 
Saturday in a narrow upset at 5–4, winning three out of six 
singles matches and grabbing two out of three doubles victories. 
In singles play, No. 3 Zhang, No. 5 Miaule and No. 2 
Tseng won their sets, while Bouillin, on the other side of 
the courts, took on the top singles player in the nation, 
Azusa Paci fic’s Jan Meyer, and was ultimately defeated 6–2 
and 7–5.
Miaule and Porutiu got a close win at the No. 2 doubles, 
9–8 as Zhang and Amaral won the No. 3 spot with the same 
score. Both Bouillin and Tseng lost at the No. 1 spot at 8–3.UCSD’s tennis teams both had 
dates with Point Loma and 
Azusa Paci fic this week.
UCSD’s No. 21 men’s tennis team’s 
ranking escaped unscathed, winning 
over No. 26 Point Loma and pulling 
off an upset victory over No. 11 Azusa 
Pacific, racking up a 3–2 score overall. 
UCSD’s No. 18 women’s tennis beat 
crosstown rival No. 33 Point Loma 
but ended its winning streak when 
confronted with No. 14 Azusa Paci fic. 
Game One
No. 18 UCSD dominated crosstown 
rival Point Loma on Thursday for its 
second-straight win, taking all three 
doubles and four out of six singles for an 
overall 7–2 win.
In doubles, sophomore Britta Mosser 
and senior Kyra Scott, the 16th-ranked 
pair nationally, defeated sophomore Nikki 
Newell and junior Regina von Koch 9–7 
for the No. 1 spot, while freshman Ashley 
Chao and junior Shannon Theisen teamed 
up at No. 2 to win 8–6; freshmen Madison 
Hale and Alexandra Weil breezed through 
the No. 3 spot for an 8–2 victory.
Mosser, Weil, Chao and Hale won 
in straight sets at No. 3 through No. 6. 
However, No. 28 Scott lost the No. 1 spot, 
and sophomore Jasmine Hosseini was 
defeated at No. 2.Game Two
On Saturday, No. 18 UCSD played No. 14 
Azusa Paci fic but could not ultimately pull 
off the upset, losing to the Cougars with a 
score of 5–4. 
The Tritons had a lot of breathing room 
with a 2–1 advantage a fter the doubles 
games. However, they could not hold onto 
their trident’s spike, finishing o ff with a four-
game loss before conceding defeat.
Opening up the day, the No. 16 pair of 
Mosser and Scott won at the No.1 spot in 
doubles as Chao and Theisen took another 
point at the No. 2 spot; the Tritons continued 
with a 4–1 lead a fter Mosser at No. 3 and 
Weil at No. 4 picked up wins in the two first 
singles matches of the day.
After that, however, the Tritons could 
not clinch the win as Azusa Paci fic evened 
the score up at 4–4. No. 16 junior Natalie 
Johnson defeated Scott at the 1 spot, and 
Hale was up at the sixth spot to try to clinch 
a Triton victory but lost the first set 6–1. She 
wrestled back to even the set count at one all, 
7–6, but the Cougars won in the end a fter 
Hale lost the last set 6–1. 
The Triton women was back in action 
against NCAA Division-I opponent UC 
Davis at 11 a.m. this past Sunday.
week  in
summar y
WOMEN'S
W A TER  POLO
SOFTBALLUCSD
UCSD
UCSDUSC
Western Oregon4 - 17
5 - 1
3 - 2
MEN'S
TENNIS
WOMEN'S
TENNIS8 - 1
7 - 25 - 4
4 - 5Point Loma
Point LomaAzusa Pacific
Azusa PacificUCSD
UCSDUCSD
UCSDMetro StateWomen Split Pair of Matches
Men’s tennis defeats Point Loma and upsets 
No. 11 Azusa Pacific on the road. 
Men’s
Women’s
Written by Marcus Thuillier// Staff Writer
Photos by Duyen Nguyen and Jonathan Gao
The UCSD so ftball team earned 
two home victories at Triton 
Softball field against Metro State 
and Western Oregon on Saturday. 
The Tritons easily handled Metro 
State 5–1 in the first game, then 
beat Western Oregon 3–2 in a 
thriller where UCSD came back 
from behind. 
UCSD improved to an 
impressive 5–1 in 2016 while 
Western Oregon and Metro State 
both fell to 1–3. 
Sophomore out fielder Kelsi 
Maday was on fire with four 
hits, three runs and two RBIs on 
Saturday while senior out fielder 
Taylor Abeyta added two hits and 
two runs. Freshman right-hand 
reliever Lauren Brown pitched in both games for a combined 6.1 
innings, only giving up one hit and 
did not allow a run while picking 
up two wins.
Game One 
UCSD got two runs in the 
bottom of the first and third innings 
after giving up a run in the top of 
the first. The Tritons wouldn’t give 
up a run the rest of the game as 
they cruised to a 5–1 win.
Metro State’s junior pitcher 
outfielder Hayley Fields doubled 
to start the game and sophomore 
utility player Kristyn Peters brought 
her home to give the Roadrunners 
a 1–0 lead. 
The Tritons answered by scoring 
two runs in the bottom of the 
first. Sophomore catcher Lauren 
Sanders brought Abeyta from third 
on a sacri fice fly while freshman 
shortstop and third base Maddy Lewis scored Maday with a single 
to le ft field. They continued by 
pouring on three runs in the third 
inning, with senior catcher Emma 
Schneider smacking a two-run 
double to le ft center to bring Maday 
and freshman out fielder Erin Lipeit 
home. Senior shortstop McKenna 
Clewett scored later in the inning 
on a fielding error. 
Brown earned the win a fter 
coming in for relief for the starting 
pitcher, senior Hannah Duarte, and 
was excellent overall; she did not 
allow a hit in 3.1 innings.
Game Two
The Tritons came back a fter 
being down by two runs to defeat 
the Wolves.
Western Oregon’s junior catcher 
and out fielder Hailee Watilo drilled 
a solo home run in the top of the 
second for the first run of the game. However, junior in fielder Kelsie 
Gardner doubled and got to third 
on a throwing error in the third 
inning for the Wolves; the next 
batter, freshman in fielder Ryanne 
Huffman, would bring Gardner 
home a fter singling to le ft field.
Abeyta drew a walk to start the 
bottom on the third inning for the 
Tritons and moved to second on 
a sacri fice bunt from sophomore 
second base Kendall Baker, eventually 
reaching third on an illegal pitch. 
Maday would then single to center 
field to bring in Abeyta. 
UCSD would take the lead in 
the bottom of the fifth with two 
runs, as Maday was able to bring 
Baker home all the way from first 
base with a double to center; Maday 
scored following a fielding error 
from Western Oregon’s Watilo. 
Finally, Brown (2–0) came in relief once more, replacing senior 
left-handed pitcher Lexi Edwards 
in the last three innings en route to 
her second win of the day. 
Head Coach Patti Gerckens was 
happy with the two wins over teams 
that made the NCAA playo ffs last 
year. 
“I think we had a strong 
weekend, and people just stepped 
up and came in clutch, ”Gerckens 
told UCSD Athletics. “Our pitchers 
did a really nice job. I’m excited 
about it but it’s a long season and 
we still have to work on a lot of 
things. ” 
The Tritons will face Cal State 
Stanislaus at home for a four-game 
series on Feb. 12 to 13 beginning 
Friday at 1 p.m.SOFTBALL
Tritons Continue Their Strong Play in the Early Season at Home
UCSD dominates Metro State, escapes Western Oregon with a two-run fifth inning and now looks to play Cal State Stanislaus next week.
BY  d e v  j a i n
dev jain   M. Golf
Baseball
Swim
M. Tennis
Softball     2/8
     2/11
     2/12
     2/12
     2/12AT Cougar Invitational
VS UT-Permian Basin
AT PCSC Championships
AT Hawai’i Invitational
VS Stanislaus StateUPCOMING
UCSD
GAMES