VOLUME 49, ISSUE 30  THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 4, 2016  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
2016 GRAMMY 
PREDICTIONS
Want to know who Kanye 
will interrupt at this year’s 
Grammy Awards? Read 
on to discover the UCSD 
Guardian’s picks for the 
2016’s big winners in four 
major categories.
DEBA TING   D-I   A THLETICS
FENCINGIdentifying   pros   and  cons
Nor thwestern Invit a tionalsOPINION, p AGE 4
Sports,  P age  12
THURSDAY  
H 65 L 46FRIDAY
H 69 L 48
SATURDAY
H 73 L 49SUNDAY  
H 74 L 50
FORECAST
VERBATIM
DISCRIMINATION AGAINST 
ATHEISTS DOES EXIST IN THE 
UNITED STATES, ALTHOUGH 
IN SOME MINOR WAYS. IN A 
COUNTRY THAT PROMOTES 
FREEDOM OF RELIGION, 
PEOPLE SHOULD BE ABLE 
TO EXPRESS THEIR RIGHT 
OF NON-RELIGION WITHOUT 
BEING SUBJECT TO SARCASTIC 
REMARKS...”
- Marcus Thuillier
ACROSS THE GLOBE  
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
BLACK HISTORY MONTH  .2
TRITON TO WATCH  .......... 8
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU  ..10
SUPERBOWL PREVIEW  ..11WEEKND,  P AGE  6
ILLUSTRATION BY DAVID G JUAREZ\ /UCSDGUARDIAN
UCSD Extension and National 
University recently revealed a new, 
joint program in Sustainability 
Management that aims to provide 
interdisciplinary training and 
learning in business, sustainability 
and engineering.
The program, introduced on Jan. 
27, offers both the practical training 
of UCSD Extension’s Sustainable 
Business Practices program as well as 
the theoretical learning of National 
University’s Master of Science in 
Sustainability Management. Students 
also have the option to have a one-
class-a-month schedule.Sarah Spicci, the director of 
Continuing and Professional 
Education at National University’s 
Division of Extended Learning, 
explained how the collaboration 
between the two institutions creates a 
versatile and expansive program.
“The [partnership] was a perfect 
fit: They had the certificate, we had the 
masters — the practical and theoretical 
side rolled into one … giving a potential 
student a robust, well-rounded 
education, ” Spicci explained. “ All of 
these speak to a great opportunity for 
a potential student, both in terms of 
increasing job competitiveness and a 
great learning experience. ”
National University is the first 
institution in the San Diego region 
to offer a graduate program in sustainability management, which 
takes the ideas of sustainability and 
applies them to the management 
practices.
Spicci explained how that 
interdepartmental collaboration 
makes the program unique. 
“It ties in the engineering 
department at National University with 
the business school to fully encapsulate 
‘the Three Es, ’” Spicci told the UCSD 
Guardian. “Equity, economics and the 
environmental components [are] all 
wrapped into one program. ”
Laura Fandino, the director of 
Environment and Sustainability at 
UCSD Extension, emphasized that 
students gain hands-on experience 
throughout the program. University Creates Loans 
for Undocumented Students
Over 3,000 undocumented students in the UC 
system will have access to $5 million of financial aid 
through the DREAM Loan Program for the 2015–
16 academic year, according to a Jan. 28 press release from 
the UC Office of the President. The UCOP will distribute 
funds based on need throughout the UC campuses, giving 
AB 540 — undocumented students — access to thousands 
of dollars in federal loans.
UC President Janet Napolitano expanded on the goal of 
the DREAM Loan program in the recent UC press release, 
explaining that it is an investment in the future of our 
country.
“By reducing barriers and expanding access to higher 
education for undocumented students, the University of 
California is investing not only in the future of these 
students, but also in the future of our state and nation, ” 
Napolitano explained.
After Napolitano proposed the DREAM Loan Program 
in 2014, the state Legislature authorized it by passing SB 1210. 
However, funding was not made available until the 2015–
16 academic year. According to UCOP Media Specialist 
Kate Moser, UCOP secured the state funding in summer 
2015 and spent some time adjusting the systemwide loan program so that they could best serve students. Students can 
apply loans to their expenses for the 2015–16 academic year 
as well as future years, if they maintain part-time enrollment 
status at a UC school.
Although the exact amount students may receive from 
the program is determined individually by each UC campus, 
they can receive up to $4,000 per year from the program 
and a maximum of $20,000 before they graduate. For this 
academic year, the interest rate on these loans is 4.29 percent.
Prior to the DREAM Loan Program, undocumented 
students were eligible for Cal Grants, UC grants and 
scholarships as well as a few private loans. However, the 
funds for the new program are dedicated specifically to AB 
540 students. 
A.S. Associated Vice President of the Diversity, Equity 
and Inclusion Daniel Juarez pointed out that AB 540 
students may not necessarily receive documentation after 
graduating, which will make it difficult for them to pay back 
their loans.
“Sometimes accessing jobs is not as easy for 
undocumented students once they graduate, ” Juarez 
explained. “Just because they graduate doesn’t mean they’re 
gonna be given documentation right away, so the ability   B Y  Promit a  Nandy    Contributing WriterStudy Finds 
Pollutants 
in Fish 
Across GlobeSCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY UC SYSTEM
According to research author 
Amro Hamdoun, the high 
variability could lead to more 
toxic fish at supermarkets. 
BY  M i n g - R a y  L i a o
See SUSTAINABILITY , page 3Researchers at Scripps Institute of 
Oceanography at UCSD found that 
though the amount of persistent, 
bioaccumulative and toxic pollutants 
in fish has declined 15 to 30 percent 
per decade over the last 30 years, it 
remains highly variable across species 
and locations.
Corresponding Author and 
Associate Professor at Scripps Stuart 
Sandin explained that the variability 
in PBT concentration meant that 
species of fish in different parts of the 
world were equally likely to contain 
significant amount of pollutants.
“I expected to see fishes caught 
near coastlines to have higher 
concentrations [of pollutants] than 
those caught in the middle of the ocean; 
instead, there was still a lot of variation 
at each of those locations, ” Sandid told 
the UCSD Guardian. “Every group 
of fish from the top of the predators 
down to those that eat lower on the 
food chain all showed possibility of 
having very high concentrations. ”
Contributing Author and Associate 
Professor of biology at Scripps Amro 
Hamdoun said that the variability in 
pollutant concentration could result 
in more toxic fish being sold at the 
supermarket.
“The huge variation means that it’ s 
very hard to generalize what amount of 
pollutants you’re going to be exposed 
to when you buy a piece of fish, ” 
Hamoun told the Guardian. “When 
you go to the supermarket to buy a 
piece of fish, you can potentially have 
180 times more pollutants in one fish 
than another fish. ”
The team published their findings 
in PeerJ on Jan. 28, basing them on 
review research of approximately 
2,500 different academic literature and 
governmental reports. They aimed to 
learn more about the distribution of 
these pollutants by looking for patterns 
across species, geography and five 
suites of chemicals that make up the 
PBT designation.
Hamdoun added that the variability 
problem does not have an immediate 
solution as it is difficult to differentiate 
between types of seafood.
“This is going to pose a new 
challenge for us in how we label 
seafood, ” Hamdoun said. “We label 
all kinds of things about seafood — 
whether it’s farmed or wild, sustainable 
or not sustainable — and of the things 
we haven’t yet figured out how to do is 
to designate clean or dirty. ”
The Stockholm Convention — a School Establishes Joint Sustainability Program
The courses train students in both the practical and theoretical side of the discipline.See DREAM , page 3
UCSD EXTENSION
BY  R e b e c ca   C h o n g
Contributing Writer
See FISH , page 32 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 4, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
AVERAGE CAT By Christina Carlson
REGISTER ONLINE  AT
AS.UCS D.EDU/ SAFERID ESREGISTRATION
FOR this quarter
IS NOW OPEN!
A.S. Safe Rides all ows 
registe red unde rgraduate 
students to get 3 FREE rid es 
per quarter. 
Students must r egister at 
least 2 4 hours prior t o their 
first ri de. Contact A.s. safe rides: (619) 564 - 799 8
MORE INFO AT SOVAC.UCSD.EDU/REGISTERThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. Babies are not covered in vaginal microbes. But 
how do? — Jacky.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Marketing Co-Directors
Peter McInnis, Haley Asturias
Training and Development Manager
Cedric Hyon
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Vincent Pham
Tina Butoiu
Kriti Sarin
Jacky To
Cassia Pollock 
Marcus Thuillier
Allison Kubo
Karly Nisson
Brittney Lu
Olga Golubkova
Jonathan Gao
Megan Lee
Joselynn Ordaz
Sherman Aline
Christina Carlson
Sophia Huang
Jennifer Grundman
Sage Schubert ChristianEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
News Editor
 
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editors
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Sherman Aline, Allison Kubo
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim, Alicia Ho, Lisa Chik
Editorial Assistants
Naftali Burakovsky, Christian Duarte, Dev Jain, Josh Lefler,  
Quinn Pieper, Julie Yip, Sam Velazquez, Nathan WalkerSonya Ahmed, an orthopedic surgeon from UCSD Health System, will 
be the chief medical officer at the upcoming 2016 Winter Y outh Olympics 
in Norway which will run from Feb. 12 to 21. Ahmed was selected by the 
United States Olympic Committee last October and serves as the head of 
the foot and ankle division of the orthopedic surgery department at UCSD 
Health.
Ahmed’s qualifications include being a medical consultant for the San 
Diego Chargers. But according to USOC Managing Director of Sports 
Medicine Bill Moreau, Ahmed has treated players from various athletic 
backgrounds.
“Dr. Ahmed has gone above and beyond to provide exceptional 
athlete care, communicating with providers and athletic trainers from 
the U.S. Olympic Committee and the National Governing Bodies for 
various sports, ” Moreau said in a UCSD press release dated Jan. 28.
Participants in the Winter Youth Olympic Games range from 
15 to 18 years of age and will compete in 70 medal events from 15 
different athletic disciplines. Moreau added that Ahmed’s experiences 
in general and sports-related orthopedic surgery have qualified her for 
this role. 
“She has a competitive athletic background, which allows her to 
understand the pressures and challenges of training and competing, ” 
Moreau explained. “Her passion for sports combined with her 
excellence as a physician-surgeon give her Team USA athletes and 
coaches a lot of confidence in the care she provides. ”Members of the UCSD community have scheduled art exhibits, cultural 
performances, guest speakers, film screenings and educational workshops 
commemorating African-American history throughout the month of February. 
This year’s theme is “Hallowed Ground: Sites of African-American Memory,” 
which emphasizes regions of the United States that pushed for racial equality 
throughout U.S. history.
Becky Petitt, vice chancellor for Equity, Diversity and Inclusion at 
UCSD, said that the annual schedule of events facilitates the dispersion of 
race-related knowledge.
“Black History Month events offer opportunities for the campus to provide 
programs and resources that increase understanding and awareness of social 
justice,” Petitt said in a press release dated Jan. 28. “This is a critical time to 
reflect on important events and courageous individuals who, throughout U.S. 
history, have broken barriers in the fight for equality.”
In addition to the these events, the university will be hosting its annual 
Black History Scholarship brunch on Feb. 27 in Price Center from 10 a.m. 
to 1 p.m. with featured keynote speaker, filmmaker and political activist 
Danny Glover. According to Chancellor Pradeep Khosla, all of the events will 
collectively serve as a framework for future generations to remember significant 
events in African-American history.
“UCSD’s commemoration of Black History Month unites faculty, staff, 
students and community members to recognize the history and contributions 
of African Americans throughout U.S. history,” Khosla said in a Jan. 
28 press release. “This important campus tradition is about celebration, 
education and inspiration.”2016 Winter Youth Olympics Hires UCSD Surgeon Campus Community Celebrates Black History MonthIN BRIEF    WRITTEN BY
KRITI SARIN //  NEWS EDITOR
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGsee more at
Dr. Terranova, Dr. Sherman, and Dr. Horne
TORREY PINES
DENTAL ARTS
We welcome UCSD Staff & Students
Richard L Sherman DDS
Steven B. Horne DDS
Scripps/Ximed Medical Center
9850 Genessee Avenue #720
La Jolla, CA 92037
858-453-5525
Info@TorreyPinesDentalArts.com
www.TorreyPinesDentalArts.com'"! $! $
$""
'"	!# !
'%""!
 !
'
!&!! #!
 " !! "	!
"	#!“Students work with an 
organization on a project that provide 
[students] with a resume-ready result 
in the Next Step Experience course, ” 
Fandino said.
Muir College junior Taylor 
Crabtree, a marine biology major 
and the director of Community 
Outreach at the Student Sustainability 
Collective, commented on how 
the program is a jumping-off point 
for taking action in environmental 
sustainability and accountability.
“I think this program with 
National University and UC San Diego Extension is a great 
partnership to allow future leaders 
to see how important environmental 
sustainability is, and how action 
needs to be taken now rather than 
later, ” Crabtree said.
A.S. Associate Vice President 
of Environmental Affairs Moon 
Pankam explained that these 
programs provide an opportunity 
for learning relevant skills.
“Sustainability management 
programs teach students an essential 
skill set for the 21st century, ” Pankam 
told the Guardian. “It is necessary to 
look at economic growth within 
the context of environmental stewardship. ”
Spicci added that there are 
some tentative plans to expand 
the range of programs between 
UCSD Extension and National 
University in healthcare, technology 
and education, and research and 
workforce development. Further 
collaboration between the two 
institutions would use UCSD 
Extension’s close relationship 
with scientific and technological 
resources of the military to fulfill 
the needs of National University’s 
large military-student population.global treaty established in 2004 by 
the Governing Council of the United 
Nations Environment Programme 
— intends to eliminate release of 
persistent organic pollutants, a subset 
of PBTs, into the environment. 
Although Sandid finds it encouraging 
that international policies like the 
Stockholm Convention have been 
effective in lowering concentration 
of pollutants, the pollutants will still 
remain for some time.
“The average concentration of pollutants has been systematically 
decreasing — the average in the 1980s 
were anywhere from twice to three 
times as high as the average we saw 
in studies as of the 2000s, ” Sandid 
said. “It’s encouraging to see things like 
the Stockholm Convention and [other] 
international efforts to limit our use 
being successful, but the [pollutants] 
are still persistent in the environment 
and they’re going to last for decades 
more. ”
Sandid describes the review paper 
as a reactionary approach to dealing 
with environmental consequences when it should be more preventative.
“I feel like there’s a very good 
opportunity for applied chemistry 
to be thoughtful about potential 
environmental consequences so we 
can prevent a new suite of chemicals 
from getting into the environment, ” 
Sandid said. “I’m hoping this study 
shows sure, we can react and manage, 
but we should be a little more 
proactive and think about our design 
of chemicals that are not likely to 
persist in the environment. ”to pay back those loans is definitely a 
question, especially for undocumented 
students that are coming from working 
class backgrounds. ”
Juarez acknowledged, however, 
that the program is certainly a step in 
the right direction.
“[The loans] are definitely a step towards making the university 
more accessible, but ideally [the UC 
system should] move toward more 
grants, actually providing money that 
[students] don’t have to pay back. ”
Moser also explained that 
the DREAM Loan program will 
give AB 540 students an avenue to 
overcome the obstacles they face as 
undocumented students.“DREAM Loan Program will help 
ensure that undocumented students 
who earn admission to the University 
of California have what they need to 
overcome the unique obstacles they 
face and achieve a world-class UC 
education, ” Moser said.NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 4, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
will, cindy, and nate:
future world  
  changers
their strategy: a Master of Arts  
in Social Entrepreneurship and Change  
from Pepperdine
Pepperdine is committed to the highest standards of 
academic excellence and Christian values.
To start your transformation, get in touch today.  
310.568.5600 or 866.503.5467  
gsep-recruitment@pepperdine.edu • gsep.pepperdine.edu
Juarez: Undocumented Students Face Challenges After Graduation
▶ DREAM,  from page 1
Promit a  Nand y  
International Regulations Helped Decrease Pollutant Concentrations
UCSD Extension to Continue Partnering with National University▶ FISH,  from page 1
▶ SUSTAINABILITY ,  from page 1Ming-Ra y  Liao   
Rebecca  Chong   Looking for the 
New Business 
Column?
Now posted every Wednesday 
night, after the A.S. Council 
meeting, online.
ucsdguardian.org4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 4, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CASSIA POLLOCK
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
The  D-1 
SportS  Deba te
For two weeks, UCSD students 
have been spreading around the latest 
news: Sixth College is to be relocated 
to take up the area between Muir 
and Thurgood Marshall Colleges. 
After the administration officially 
confirmed its intention to make this 
campus rearrangement by 2019, many 
students expressed their skepticism 
towards the new initiative presented 
to the Muir College Council by 
the Department of Physical and 
Community Planning. Admittedly, 
school authorities have good reasons 
for a potential territorial reform on 
campus, but students have reason 
to be concerned. Without careful 
consideration for where Sixth College 
should relocate, students may end up 
sleeping on the curb next to the Muir 
Parking Lots. 
Quite a plot twist for many, 
relocation can be explained by two 
factors. It is necessary to provide 
space for the Blue Trolley Line that is 
to be extended to the UCSD campus 
by 2021. The public transportation 
expansion includes the opening of a 
Pepper Canyon station on the west 
side of the UCSD campus, where 
Sixth College students are currently 
residing. This project, which took the 
city years to approve and will take two 
billion dollars to execute, additionally 
requires our school to invest in 
moving the residents and facilities 
of Sixth College in order to provide other students with a convenient 
access to a new Trolley Line.  
The administration, nevertheless, 
is willing to sink money into the 
project, as it seems to complement 
UC President Janet Napolitano’s plan 
to add 14,000 beds to University of 
California campuses by 2020 — the 
second relocation factor. Director of 
Physical and Community Planning 
Robert Clossin stated that rebuilding 
Muir Parking Lots will allow the 
university to build new housing 
facilities with 1,800 beds, together 
with learning facilities, a social 
science building and potentially a 
humanities building. 
Of course, with the construction 
that will be brought to campus 
by the relocation of Sixth College 
comes the issue of parking. A major 
concern among students is the loss 
of major parking lots in Muir, which 
Sixth College will replace. To avoid 
exacerbating the neverending parking 
problem, Physical and Community 
Planning are considering building 
a new parking structure as a part 
of their reconstruction plan. In 
addition, with the installation of the 
Pepper Canyon stop on the Mid-
Coast Corridor Light Rail, students 
— particularly commuters — will be 
offered free and convenient access to 
campus that would, in turn, reduce 
the need for parking. Though it’s true 
that Sixth students will be displaced during the relocation, a few years 
of this is worth the value of having 
a substantial and free system that 
connects UCSD to the greater San 
Diego area, which would extend south 
to Chula Vista and east to El Cajon. 
The result would benefit commuters 
and any students living off campus 
— who make up 56 percent of the 
UCSD undergrad population — while 
making UCSD less isolated and more 
integrated into San Diego.
The move to uproot an entire 
college may seem drastic, but 
remarkably, it is not the first time that 
UCSD is moving the whole college. 
According to the university website, 
in 2003, Eleanor Roosevelt College 
migrated from today’s territory 
of Sixth College to its current 23 
buildings on the northwest of UCSD’s 
campus. Such example of successful 
relocation brings hope that moving 
Sixth College is not only possible, but 
will be beneficial to the university’s 
infrastructure and to students’ access 
to and from the university.
The relocation is a strategic 
move that can bring improvements 
to UCSD. However, it undoubtedly 
adds to the issue of an overcrowded 
campus. If bringing more students to 
the campus will take away from the 
quality of education and availability of 
resources for every accepted Triton, 
1,800 beds and a trolley line is not 
what we should be cheering for. Re-Location of  Sixth College Has Mix of  Advantages and Disadvantages
Vincent Pham
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Tina Butoiu
MANAGING EDITOR  
Cassia Pollock
OPINION EDITOR
Quinn Pieper
ASSISTANT OPINION EDITOR
Kriti Sarin
NEWS EDITOR
Jacky To
ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITOR
Allison Kubo
FEATURES EDITOR
Olga Golubkova
CO-LIFESTYLE EDITOREDITORIAL  BOARD
The UCSD Guardian is published twice a week at the 
University of California at San Diego. Contents © 
2015. Views expressed herein represent the majority 
vote of the editorial board and are not necessarily those 
of the UC Board of Regents, the ASUCSD or the 
members of the Guardian staff. The argument for Division I sports is difficult territory to 
traverse. With much potential for greatness comes the prospect 
of little to no change for UCSD. With risk, though, comes 
potential for great reward. This choice is a gamble at best, and 
will bring a variety of positive and negative consequences.
For non-athletes — the majority of the student body — the 
decision must be considered through the financial entailments 
of shifting to Division I.
In terms of consistent payments from enrolled students, 
the transition would not be free, or even cheap. At a time when 
college is more expensive than ever and student debt is higher 
than ever, students should not have to donate $160 per quarter 
to athletes so that they can play in more competitive divisions. 
Furthermore, what message does this send to our academic 
divisions, especially those that already lack funding? Instead 
of helping them discover ways to improve society, we’ d be 
shoveling cash into sports that our student body has failed to 
demonstrate a compelling interest for.
In the long run, however, these costs may be worth the 
heightened recognition, elevated appeal and increased amount 
of alumnus donations that could result from the change.
By having UCSD accessible on national television or sports 
programming, which is likely given the performance of some 
athletic programs such as water polo and fencing, reminders 
of UCSD may engender sympathy and donations. This notion also goes with the idea that having a Division I sports program 
could build a brand for UCSD and put the school on the map, 
making UCSD a more desirable school to go to. For instance, 
other UCs in our system — namely UCLA and UC Berkeley — 
are better-known brands than UCSD. Perhaps it is their greater 
age in years; perhaps having a Division-I sports program is a 
strong contributor to this fame. Regardless, it is likely a factor 
— however incremental — and being a Division I university 
has the potential to boost UCSD’s status. 
Furthermore, the transition to a Division I athletics 
program may bring in a new batch of students applying to 
UCSD, as a program that can provide larger scholarships than 
the $500 reward Division II schools offer. This could have the 
potential to attract more athletic talent. With UCSD already 
being esteemed as a research institution, an athletic program 
to match could tip the balance in a decision for students 
matriculating to San Diego over another university. Of 
course, this applies to a select group of students who are able 
to both compete at the Division I athletic level and perform 
academically at UCSD. 
However, if UCSD does move into Division I standing, 
the costs of new athletic facilities will more than likely 
not be required, and future generation of students won’t 
be shortchanged with a decision made now. Although the 
discussion of having to pay future fees for facility renovation 
See D-I SPORTS, page 5As UCSD prepares to vote on the proposition to join D-I sports, the Editorial Board 
compares and contrasts both the positive and negative consquences of  this transition.ILLUSTRA TION   B Y  EL Y SE  Y ANG
Marcus Thuillier 
MTHUILLI@UCSD.EDuAROUND THE GLOBE
The First Amendment concerns 
free establishment of religion and 
free exercise thereof; freedom of 
speech and of the press. There’s 
been many debates about the true 
meaning of all these freedoms, but 
the one I’m choosing to focus on 
now is the free exercise of religion. 
First of all, consider the 
following statistics on the 
American religious landscape. 
The Pew Research center found in 
2014 that 70 percent of Americans 
identify as Catholic and 23 percent 
are unaffiliated. 
Only a measly three percent said 
they were atheist. But when you 
focus on another  country that has 
emphasized separation of church 
and state, such as France, the 
behavior toward religion changes 
drastically.
In France, since 1905, the laws 
and rules about separation of 
church and state have been strictly 
enforced. The result is that 30 
percent of the French population 
which identifies as atheist, does not 
find talking about this publicly to 
be an issue. In the United States, 
atheists do not have the same luck.
Atheists in America are 
constantly under pressure to justify 
their disbelief in God and the Bible. 
In a country where freedom of 
speech and religion is placarded 
everywhere, the right to being 
atheist without being harassed by 
society seems to be nonexistent. 
There are countless websites 
denouncing “militant atheism” 
like the Freedom From Atheism 
Foundation. 
For some reason, an atheist 
disputing the existence of God is 
a sin, but religious leaders trying 
to coerce people into sharing their 
same beliefs is commonly accepted. 
The International Humanities 
and Ethical Union found in “The 
freedom of thought report 2015” 
that “citing “religious freedom” in 
an attempt to bypass separation 
of church and state, to enforce 
particular religious beliefs in the 
public sphere, or in some way 
“establish” religion” was common in 
the United States. In a country where 
the freedom of thought ranking is 
“mostly satisfactory, ” among the best 
in the world, the insistence on using 
religion as an excuse to go against 
the law is appalling.
Perhaps more surprisingly, 
“despite the constitutional 
prohibition (Article 6) of any 
‘religious test’ for public office, there 
are currently eight states where the 
laws directly block those who deny 
the existence of God or ‘a supreme 
being’ from holding public office. ” 
Even though the states involved 
are mostly southern states deeply 
rooted in Christianity, and 
those laws have been deemed 
unconstitutional countless of 
times, such a form of religious 
discrimination in a country like the 
United States is shocking. 
Discrimination against atheists 
does exist in the United States, 
although in some minor ways. But 
in a country that promotes freedom 
of religion, people should be able to 
express their right of non-religion 
without being subject to sarcastic 
remarks and constant pressure to 
change their minds. Freedom of  
Religion, 
and Lack 
Thereof
OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 4, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
Karmonize.org  is a student organization
where we can support good causes,
cooperate, and volunteer to
improve the UCSD community.HELP OTHERS, FIND HELP
WHEN YOU NEED IT, AND
MAKE KARMA REAL!
.com/ucsdguardian
CalCopyUCSD@gmai l.comLowest
Prices POSTER PRINTINGPRINT/ COPY FILES
'' FedExFastest
ServiceReaders printed in 1 day.Cal Copy UCSD Course Readers
SAME DAY COLOR POSTER PRINTING!
Switch to D-1 Will Increase Student Expenses, Not Necessarily School Spirit 
is not as highly discussed as say, a 
boost in campus spirit, a decision for 
Division I can be made with knowing 
future generations won’t spurn the 
classes that did vote for the move. 
With that being said, it’s not 
guaranteed that the step up to 
Division I would increase school 
spirit immediately, if at all.
3,924 students attended the 
men’s basketball game that night, a 
figure that would defeat the average 
attendance at almost any University 
of California campus. This is with 
the exception of UCLA and UC 
Berkeley, the only two to crack the 
top-100 NCAA teams in terms 
of 2014 average attendance, with 8,136 and 7,754 present per game 
respectively. However, both have 
been around nearly twice as long 
as any other UC campus and thus 
have had twice the amount of time 
to build their athletic infrastructure, 
gain national recognition and garner 
student interest. Average attendance 
at the other campuses ranged from a 
mere 913 at UC Riverside (Division 
I since 2000) to a decent 2,961 at UC 
Santa Barbara (Division I since 1969), 
an audience it’s taken over 45 years in 
Division I to reach. 
Once again, 3,924 UCSD 
students showed up to watch its 
men’s basketball team play on Spirit 
Night. The core of UCSD’s school 
spirit problem is not the fact that 
its athletics compete in Division II instead of Division I; it is that UCSD 
students do not support their sports 
teams. The idea that converting to 
Division I will automatically mend 
this issue and motivate students to 
attend matches is speculative at best 
and imaginary at worst.
Rather than pay to be popular, 
we could be putting our time and 
efforts into supporting organizations 
like Tritons Rising, which is working 
to induce school spirit organically 
rather than buying a false Tritonian 
Dream. The proposal for shifting 
UCSD to Division I is a gamble, and 
one that might only be an illusionary 
fix for the more prominent issue that 
is lackluster school spirit. But for the 
future of UCSD, it’s a gamble that just 
may be worth it.▶ D-I SPORTS from page 4GOT ISSUES?
SEND YOUR 
LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIKE US ON
 FACEBOOK
facebook.com/ucsdguardian6     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 4, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
Not to beat a dead horse or anything, but … 
actually, I do mean to beat a dead horse. Because 
Kendrick Lamar is the genius of our generation, 
and nowhere is that more evident than in his 
third piece, “To Pimp a Butterfly. ”
Everyone went nuts about this album when it 
first came out, and people still go nuts about it, 
claiming that it stands up there with some of the 
greatest albums from the likes of Tupac, Snoop 
Dogg and Dre. The album’s great wordplay, 
rhythm and overarching themes surpass that of 
“good kid, M.A.A.D. city, ” with Lamar intent on 
perfecting his craft. 
“T o Pimp a Butterfly” is the type of 
unorthodox, brilliant album that the music 
industry needs, incorporating unique jazz 
elements and genius rhythmic poetry, possibly 
paving the way for what popular music can be 
and will become.
—   cedric  hy on
 Staff Writer
There’s one thing not quite like the others on 
this year’s list of Best New Artist nominees, and 
her name is Courtney Barnett. If the Grammys 
are where the kings and queens of overplayed 
pop go to collect shiny, golden mantelpieces, 
then Barnett is certainly out of her element 
among the glammed-up faces of the industry’s 
most polished. For Barnett’s art relies on this 
outsider identity, and her critical dissections 
of societal trends and sarcastic portraits of the 
mundane are the reason she is being recognized. 
Her lyrical tact and versatile guitar playing are 
no doubt a refreshing portrait of rare talent; 
perhaps it’s the irony of her nomination that 
makes the idea of her ascending the stage to 
claim her award — t-shirt clad and make-up 
free — that much sweeter. Barnett’s indie rock 
debut, “Sometimes I Sit and Think, Sometimes 
I Just Sit, ” is simultaneously a glorification and 
critique of the ordinary: a rejection of the same, 
popular opinion that determines who’ll be 
accepting the awards. 
—   karl y  nisson 
 A&E EditorPersonifying drugs as a woman, The 
Weeknd’s “Can’t Feel My Face” addresses both 
the feeling of euphoria and addictive property 
of drugs. With a strong emphasis on vocals, the 
song’s repeating lyrics and rhythm make it not 
only addicting, but also strangely calming. The 
slow buildup in intensity transitions the song 
from a somber tone to an upbeat and cheerful 
song despite its not-so-lighthearted topic. The 
Weeknd, having had issues with drugs before, 
is able to convey the temptation of drugs, 
likening the attraction to drugs to the seduction 
of a woman. He recognizes the destructive 
nature of narcotics but also admits to loving 
the feeling. Being able to address such a serious 
issue, such as substance abuse, while adopting 
a playful tone and beat, is a feat achieved by 
few, cautioning listeners from caving in to the 
temptation of dope.
—   alex chen 
 Contributing WriterKendrick Lamar retreated from the spotlight 
in the midst of the cultural zeitgeist, coming out 
of the woodwork a new American idol. There 
was a new sense of urgency; every facet of his 
being had undergone a renaissance. In “ Alright” 
he purges his soul with a silky smooth but fast 
flow, zany jazzy influences, and tight production 
in his hit “ Alright. ” 
A story of being empowered through the 
troubles and corruption of fame, “ Alright” is 
positioned perfectly in the context of the album, 
between songs of introspection and exposure. 
With the cacophonous saxophone trills and 
strange background noises challenging your 
taste of music throughout, Lamar delivers 
a Mona Lisa: unique and misunderstood. 
Like Da Vinci, Lamar’s genius will transcend 
contemporary trivialities and establishes itself as 
a high watermark for music.
—   tina  butoiu
 Staff WriterALBUM OF THE YEAR
BEST NEW ARTISTRECORD OF THE YEAR
SONG OF THE YEAR“TO PIMP A BUTTERFLY”  
BY KENDRICK LAMAR
COURTNEY BARNETT  “CAN’T FEEL MY FACE”  
BY THE WEEKND
“ALRIGHT”  
BY KENDRICK LAMARUCSD Guardian
ILLUSTRATION BY DAVID JUAREZ
ILLUSTRATION BY ALEX LIANG
ILLUSTRATION BY DAVID JUAREZ THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 4, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
Upon entering Neda Kerendian’s exhibit, “FIND YOUR 
FOOTING a series of cityscapes, ” one is struck by 
ethereal images of blurred city scenes that express the 
feeling of movement. The exhibition culminates in a mixed-media 
work, with paper skyscrapers covering subtle, glittery lights — 
allowing viewers to sit back and ground themselves, to “find their 
footing. ” Kerendian’s work is a testament to the quality of the little 
appreciated and relatively unknown UCSD Visual Arts Department. 
As a studio arts major and media minor, Kerendian is part of the 
honors studio art class, which puts on exhibits every week.
 Seeking to express the “blur of color and light” that occurs in 
the busy, modern day world, Kerendian uses acrylic paint to achieve 
her dreamy, layered works of art. Using a single perspective that 
makes the viewer feel central in observing the scene, Kerendian 
works with different ways of applying paint in a freeform, dynamic 
way. Kerendian explained her technique to the UCSD Guardian, 
highlighting her personal approach to creating art.
“I embrace imperfection, ” Kerendian said. “I allow mistakes 
to happen. It’s this constant push and pull, this back and forth 
between being in control and letting whatever happens happen. ” 
This process echoes the goals of her work: balancing a fast-
paced life with slowing down and having control.
 The works highlight this goal. The exhibit begins with 
eight single paintings arranged simply on one wall, including 
pieces entitled “Unclear Momentum, ” “Numb” and “You’re Just 
Breathing, ” among others. Though all the pieces consist of blurred 
city buildings from a single perspective, they all have a unique feel, 
color scheme and distinct appearance that distinguishes them from 
the rest. Kerendian seeks to “explore the motion of a city in a way 
that wouldn’t be possible with just one painting” and achieves this 
by expressing different feelings in each cityscape. As the viewer 
progresses through the exhibit, the perspectives alter, with larger, 
oddly shaped canvases and artistically arranged small works. The 
exhibit culminates in “Caving in, Caving Out, ” in which the exhibit 
slows down, displaying more 
stationary mixed media 
skyscrapers superimposed on 
twinkling lights. In this final 
work, Kerendian contrasts 
the fast-paced movement of 
the city with a more static 
and reflective final piece that 
seeks to slow viewers down, 
getting them to appreciate 
the scene around them and 
“find their footing.”
FIND YOUR FOOTING
a series of cityscapes
With a series of movement-oriented cityscapes, 
artist Neda Kerendian ponders staying 
grounded in a fast-paced world.written by Chandra Couzens // Staff Writer
photos by Kenji BennettJan 26–29, 2016 
@ Andrew D. Kamil Gallery
8     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 4, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  WEEKEND
The  Christian  
Lifestyle:  
An Advice 
Column 
I’m new to California and I 
want to know how I can adjust 
to living life here? Is there 
anything I should know about the 
SoCal culture or the California 
culture in general? — Anonymous
The state of California can be 
subdivided into two ontologies: 
NorCal and SoCal. The former is 
widely known for being the largest 
distributer of Northface jackets in 
the country, a tourist hub in The 
City — don’t give me this frisky 
“Mish” and “Frisco” caca; nothing 
screams uncultured more than 
these uncool techy terms — and 
the phylogenetic origins of “hella. ” 
If you need that condensed into a 
tiny, digestible fact reminiscent of 
those high class restaurants where 
you pay $50 for half an ounce of filet 
mignon: it’s hella cold, yo. These are 
wide generalizations but, considering 
the context of this question, I assume 
you’re more partial to learning about 
Southern California in all of its glory. 
Specifically, San Diego — that’s where 
our university is located, right?
First off, ignore the present 
weather shenanigans. Believe it or 
not, California is in a drought — it 
is spelled “d-r-o-u-g-h-t” if you 
were too lazy to Google it — which 
means that our water supplies are 
shallowing. Thirsty, much? Despite 
being placed conveniently near the 
ocean, California is also way too 
salty to ingest any kind of ocean 
water, so that places us in a state 
of conservation. So if you want 
to adjust to California, heed the 
following advice with a nod of the 
head (I can already see you faking 
enthusiasm right now): Do not 
waste water. Listen, Q. You can 
wear all the plaid you desire around 
your waist; you can eat from all the 
taco trucks you want; heck, you 
can go juice bar hopping all you 
want and say you went to Coachella 
when you really were just at a 
nightclub in Hillcrest. But if there 
is one thing you should never do, 
it is waste water and pollute the air 
with noxious fumes from your road 
rage. Los Angeles and San Diego 
are smoggy enough, so cut as much 
crap as you can from the exhaust 
and start thinking smart.
Now, I also know you’re 
probably expecting some essay-
long discourse on SoCal culture, 
but I find conceptualizing 
“adjustment” as an impossible and 
implausible movement. Do you 
mean “adjustment” as contributing 
to the displacement of people in a 
quasi-definitely-is-gentrification, 
slotting coffee shops in small cracks 
and pigeon nests? Or is the friendly 
“settle on this land without knowing 
that it’s Kumeyaay land” kind of 
adjustment? What you should know 
about California culture is that there 
is a continual erasure of history; a 
political rewriting of narrative that 
necessitates the need for polyvocality 
instead of this uniform master 
narrative. So what does this mean? 
Don’t just know the California 
culture in the present; learn about 
its history and know that everything 
in life is just one big contradiction. 
Welcome to California!
Need any advice on acclimating 
to UCSD? Struggling with a 
nasty case of the break-up? Need 
better ways to burn a tuna melt 
sandwich? Reach out to us at
lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org 
with your questions and your 
anonymity, if wanted, and we’ll 
answer as many as we can!
CHRISTIAN GELLA 
CGELLA@UCSD.EDU53*50/508"5$)
PLATES  WITH  FRIENDS
Interview by Shelby Newallis // Senior Staff Writer
Sunday, Jan. 31st was a rather blustery day — the kind of day that makes you want to crawl under the 
covers with a cup of tea, and pray that nothing will tear away from the cozy cocoon. If it weren’t for the 
intrigue of luxurious dishes such as: lobster in butter sauce, risotto and souffle #foodporn on Facebook, 
no foodie would have made it out of bed, but the food gods — quite the modern deities — reigned down 
and granted a sign. It came in the form of a featured ad on the UCSD Free and For Sale page, inviting 
select, blessed students to join the Plates with Friends duo who were finally hosting yet another culinary 
masterpiece. Luckily, the UCSD Guardian had the pleasure of sitting down for a chat with Joy Inton and 
Johnson Jou, UCSD alumni, current Torrey Pines Park Rangers and couple behind Plates with Friends. 
GUARDIAN :Why did you start Plates with Friends?
Starting this was kind of a way to get UCSD affordable food 
that’s also really good. When people feel good after a meal, they’ll 
share good stories and that’s kind of what interests us. We like to 
see how the interactions go between students. Sometimes people 
knew each other from before, like at our first dinner — we all 
walked in the room not knowing one another, but then realized by 
the end of the night, that we all had a mutual friends. I have to say 
we’ve seen quite a few friendships made at these dinners, which is 
one of the reasons we like having them.PWF:
Yes, we’re both UCSD grads in biology, so we never really 
did any cooking for any other reason than we both like to eat, but 
also don’t want to pay high prices for food we can make for less. 
We both read a lot of cookbooks that we find at the San Diego 
Public Library and also recipes we find online. We also love to 
learn about new cuisines when we travel and try to bring back 
a little bit of what we learn from traveling, back here and then 
eventually share it all with you guys. PWF:So, you both are self-taught chefs, right? How do you learn how to   
prepare the meals you make? G:Jou:  One of the things I fell in love with Joy for is her 
open-mindedness to try new things. As a couple, we love to travel 
around the world and from what we’ve experienced, traveling is all 
about sharing stories with people and it seems like one of the best 
ways to get a glimpse of the way other people live is by sharing a 
meal. It’s really that — that we live for — that new experience and 
sharing happiness with people.PWF:Y ou both travel quite a bit, how do your travels inspire your 
culinary passions?G:
Thank you. I mean, we’ve got a pretty good gig right now. 
We love working at Torrey Pines and at this point we make 
enough to travel and afford to have these dinners, so we feel pretty 
fortunate. I don’t think we really ever want to run a restaurant, 
but we do have a dream of owning a Bed and Breakfast one day 
on a farm. We love farms! We want to have chickens and fresh 
vegetables that we can hopefully serve to our guests and continue 
to share stories over a good meal.PWF:Wow, that’s really beautiful. So, is Plates with Friends something 
you see turning into something more? Like a restaurant or a future 
business? G:
Inton : I’ d have to say Japanese. I could eat this (our sushi 
dinner) everyday. 
Jou:  Wow… I can’t answer that. There isn’t just one thing I could 
have over and over again, I guess it just depends on what I’m 
hungry for that day. PWF:OK, last question, I promise! I know it’s hard, but can you both 
think of a cuisine or type of food you couldn’t live without? G:
Think about it like this, the people that come here are UCSD 
students, so they have a lot to lose if they act poorly. Plus, the nice 
thing about the Free & For Sale page on Facebook is that we can 
use filters, so if someone maybe has a profile picture where they’re 
holding two guns and seem dangerous, I probably wouldn’t invite 
them into our home. We usually get people who want to try new 
things and are open-minded. Sure, there are times we get worried 
before a dinner, but part of our job as rangers is working with the 
public and we’ve learned the best way to cope with the unknown is 
to be at your best and see where it all falls. PWF:Let’s talk about having strangers in your home … are you ever 
worried?G:
PHOTO USED WITH PERMISSION FROM JOHNSON JOU
WEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 4, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
Deadline  to apply: Feb 28
 APPLY AT bit.ly/1mBhHp0
Contact hweddle@u csd.edu for additional inquirie sBecome  the next
UC STUDENT
REGENTDon't  y ou
by   wet
Release Date Jan. 29
Brooklyn trio’s debut album is a clever, honest 
mix of romantic hopes and drifting feelings.ALBUM   REVIEW
Wet’s debut album “Don’t 
You”  i s  a  c ompi l at i on 
of songs true to the 
tumultuous moments we encounter 
in our personal relationships. 
Throughout each song, the calm 
vocals blend with the rhythmic, 
slow beats, defining the sound of 
members Kelly Zutrau, Joe Valle 
and Marty Sulkow — stylistically 
minimal yet wholesome. 
The album begins with track “It’s 
All in Vain” in which vocalist Zutrau 
says, “Now I see you never knew 
me / Look at you, you look right 
through me / Tell me one more time 
before I go, ” as if “Don’t Y ou” is a 
collection of memories: a journey into 
her heartaches and desires. Zutrau 
manages to hit a series of far-ranging 
notes with careful articulation and 
control; an electric guitar enters, just 
as her voice — hazy and slightly raspy 
— trails off. 
“Don’t You” features singles 
like “Deadwater” and “Weak, ” 
with riffs that instill nostalgia of a 
disappointed heart (“If my legs were 
longer / They might carry us further 
/ But we waited too long / So the 
task just gets harder”) into more 
sensual, raw songs like “Body” and 
“Islands, ” in which Zutrau sings, 
somewhat defiantly, “Don’t you hold 
me” echoed by “since you didn’t. ” 
Instrumentals on this album 
lack extensive variation in tones and tempos, which is disappointing 
given the artist’s noted R&B 
influences. However, Wet has 
smoothly added cellos and violins 
to its repertoire. Over a layer of 
rhythmic bass, the band continues 
its genius in fusing shimmery synth 
beats and pointed, offbeat drums. 
Perhaps the vocals, partly, make 
up for the imbalance. This is a 
warm voice that, in one instance, 
so vulnerably asks to “never be 
alone again” yet, in another, calmly 
declares “I don’t wanna be your 
girl no more. ” Zutrau never calls 
on listeners to feel for her, nor does 
she speak directly to her significant 
other. She is simply saying what 
needs to be said on account of 
herself, as if these lyrics are her 
stream-of-consciousness thoughts 
told in precise melodic rants. 
Since the artist’s initial self-
titled EP in 2014, Wet has defined 
its musical expertise by creating 
soulful pop ballads with incredibly 
strong narration. Although the 
bandmates have more tones and 
lyrical topics to explore, this album 
confirms that they have their 
own place in the stripped-down 
alternative sub-genre.
—   Julie  yip
Contributing Writer
One normally associates visual arts to an abstract 
conglomeration of juxtaposing colors and figures 
attempting to extract some emotion from the over-
intuitive artiste. But for urban theorists Teddy Cruz 
and Fonna Forman, art transcends creative realms into 
geopolitical arenas, translating the pragmatic world 
into a social reality of inequality, contest and cross-
cultural tensions. 
Inventors of the Medellin Diagram, Cruz and 
Forman collaborated with the artistic stylings of architect 
Alejandro Echeverri and graphic designer Matthias 
Goerlich to narrate the urban transformation of Medellin, 
Colombia. This visualization piece delves into the tactical 
strategies and formal urbanism that reinvented the city’s 
topography. By using top-down planning with bottom-up 
socialization, it ultimately rebuilds a city from its disparate 
and agitated past while projecting methods of renewal 
and consistency. 
Celebrating the intricate and often paradoxical 
nuances of this city, Cruz and Forman engage the 
audience to view the city beyond a superficial outlook. 
Rather than exploring the isolated elements of a 
metropolis, this exhibit drowns in the integration of 
social, demographic, economic and political spheres. 
Committing to the theme of hybridization, the Medellin 
Diagram initiates further investigation of the global 
impact in cross-culturalism and engages UCSD students 
in this conversation. Open until Feb. 12, this gallery is 
much more than the stereotypical demonstration of 
unusual geometric patterns or curvilinear organicism 
of art, but rather the re-imagination of how one views 
public space and its role in reconstructing the social, 
psychological and theoretical world around it. Although little imagination went into naming this 
nautical neighborhood, Oceanside is maturing 
into a local cultural mecca and arts district. To celebrate 
the thriving creative landscape, the city hosts the 
Oceanside Art Walk every first Friday of the month, 
with the next event being this Friday, Feb. 5.
Spend the evening exploring the city as the vibrant 
gallery community opens their doors to the public 
for free. The Oceanside Museum of Art, the Muramid 
Mural Museum and Artist Center, Gallery 206, and the 
Gallery at the Brooks are just some of the spaces ready 
to welcome in the seasoned museum veteran and the 
casual art enthusiast alike. These museums curate 
many pieces from more regional artists, cultivating 
and recognizing the Oceanside spirit and culture. 
And if visual delicacies don’t satiate your tastebuds, 
then come for the musical performances peppered 
throughout the night at Coast Jewelry and More and 
at Mainstreet Oceanside. Koa, a younger but talented 
musician, and his siblings will be performing as well as 
the band Small Town Heroes. 
While many of the same museums and businesses 
in the area participate consistently, each month 
focuses on a new theme and thus a fresh Oceanside 
Art Walk experience for even the frequent visitor. As 
the season of love and consumerism begins with the 
advent of February, the overarching motif for this 
particular Friday is a celebration of love. So take your 
significant other, hang out with your mom, or bring 
the hip and cultured art friend, and enjoy the local 
exhibits and good vibes. And if you are subscribed 
to the I’m-an-introvert-and-proud crowd, then take 
yourself on a date, because while it takes two to tango, 
it only takes one to fall in love with art. 
— B y Brittney Lu  // Lifestyle Co-Editor — B y Maria Manalang  // Staff WriterPHOTO COURTESY OF MCASD
VISUAL ARTS PRESENTS — 
THE MEDELLIN DIAGRAMOCEANSIDE ART WALKART  DIGEST PHOTO COURTESY OF BRIGID PARSONS FOR OCEANSIDE ART WALK
PHOTO COURTESY OF DEPARTMENT OF ART10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 4, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDS$
Gua rdian Classifieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifieds
BIKES
1964 Schwinn Stingray Lowrider Bike - 
$700. Used to be my show bike. No use for 
it now. Willing to trade for mountain bike or 
$700. $600 in twisted chrome alone. Listing 
ID: 232004953 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
Women’s 26’ Mountain Bike - $130. Only 
ridden once. Basically brand new moun -
tain bike. Schwinn seven speed. Has no 
issues. Has just been sitting in my garage 
for a few months. Listing ID: 232004957 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
informationFixie Bike - $250. Matte black and white 
fixie bike. Barely ridden. Comes with pump 
and bike lock. Listing ID: 232004956 at ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
ELECTRONICS
Gold Trim Portable Aux Speaker - $15. Has 
auxiliary cord protector for when not in 
use. Easily portable with great bass. Price 
is negotiable. Listing ID: 232005030 at ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
Xbox Control - $35. Just a Xbox control 
that I do not need. Listing ID: 232005027 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
32” TV - $70. Slightly used. Good speakers 
and high-def visual quality. Price is negotia -
ble. Listing ID: 232005025 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
FURNITURE
Coffee Table with Two End Tables - $250. 
This is a matching set. Bought it for over 
$500 at NEX. Listing ID: 232005056 at ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mationwww.ucsdguardian.org/advertisingComplete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies 
on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.ukLevel: 1234 Level: 1234
SUDOKU
MARKETING JOB
La Jolla Dental Group 
looking for two outgoing 
students to help with their 
marketing, preferably one male 
and one female.
If interested, contact Maria 
at 858-455-9614 or office@
lajolladentalgroup.com for more 
information.
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972Twin Bed - $120. Twin bed with mattress. In 
good condition. Mattress is super comfort -
able. Listing ID: 232005055 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
Large Sectional with Sleeper - $1200. 
Selling sectional with memory foam sleeper 
in it. Paid $2,400 for it in July. Moving 
cross-country and need it gone. Also selling 
matching coffee table for $100. Listing ID: 
232005050 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
your vision,  our mission .Your on-c ampus, student-run,  
custom scr een printing se rvice 
comple te with graphic design  
capabilities and me rchandis e
available f rom:
madetoorde r@ucsd. edu
to.ucsd.ed uCONTACT US TODAY FO R A FREE QUOTE!
JUST FOR YOU! RECEIVE  10% OFF YOUR FIRST CUSTOM ORDER  (minimum 36 shirts) • EXPIRE S 3/11/16
SHOP TRITON OUTFITTERS
to.ucsd.edu
DO YOU TWEET? YAY SO DO WE!
@UCSDGua rdianSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 4, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
Social
Power
HourSocial
Power
Hour
FREE GAMES, MUSIC, AND FOOD!FREE GAMES, MUSIC, AND FOOD!
FIRST COME, FIRST SERVEd
FIRST COME, FIRST SERVEdOTHER DATES
WHEN AND WH EREWHEN AND WHERE
PC COMMUTER
LOUNGE2PMFEB. 4 
FEB. 18
MAR. 3DATEDATESuper Bowl 50 pits the Carolina 
Panthers and the Denver Broncos 
in a matchup that is a surprise even 
though both teams were the first seeds 
in their respective conferences. The 
Broncos scraped by the New England 
Patriots in the American Football 
Conference Championship 20‒18 in 
a game that was decided when the 
Patriots could not make a two point 
conversion in the final minute of of 
play time. In the National Football 
Conference, the Panthers easily 
defeated the Arizona Cardinals 49‒15, 
never looking back after starting off 
with an early 17–0 lead. 
The Panthers, led by Most 
Valuable Player front runner Cam 
Newton, who had the best season of 
his young career, were an impressive 
15‒1 in the regular season, only losing  
to the Atlanta Falcons. Behind their 
quarterback Newton, the Panthers 
led the entire league in points with 
31.3 per game; Newton had 3,837 
yards passing with 35 touchdowns and only 10 interceptions. He also 
did a lot of damage on the ground, 
adding 10 rushing touchdowns on 
top of 636 yards. The 15‒1 record 
was equally impressive for the 
Panthers because they lost number 
one receiver Kelvin Benjamin for the 
whole season due to an ACL injury. 
Aside from Newton, the Panthers’ 
success can largely be attributed to 
their defense, with linebackers Luke 
Kuechly and Thomas Davis, two 
of the best defensive players in the 
league, leading this impressive unit. 
In addition, cornerback Josh Norman 
was one of the bigger surprises of the 
season, as he had four interceptions 
and three forced fumbles. Norman 
was huge for the Panthers because he 
would often shut down the opposing 
team’s best receiver. 
While the Panthers steamrolled 
through their opponents, the Broncos 
had an absolute roller coaster of 
a season. The Broncos started off 
strong, winning their first eight 
games, but in Week 10, quarterback 
Peyton Manning got knocked out 
of the game after having one of the worst performances of his career, 
finishing with just 35 yards on five 
completions and four  interceptions. 
Manning would be out indefinitely, 
and Brock Osweiler would take over 
the quarterback position, with rumors 
swirling that this was likely Manning’s 
last season; people began wondering 
if he would ever step foot on the 
football field again. With Osweiler 
leading the team, the Broncos would 
go 4‒2 and look to clinch home field 
advantage against the San Diego 
Chargers. In what should have been 
an easy victory at home against the 
abysmal 4‒12 Chargers, the Broncos 
found themselves down 13‒7 during 
the middle of the third quarter. Coach 
Gary Kubiak then made the switch to 
bring Manning back in for Osweiler 
in what was Manning’s first game in 
nearly three months. Peyton would 
play well enough, as the Broncos 
defeated the Chargers 27‒20 to 
clinch the first seed and home-field 
advantage throughout playoffs. The 
Broncos led the league in sacks while 
allowing only 18.5 points per game, 
good for fourth best. Von Miller 
and DeMarcus W are have been two destroyers of offenses this season and 
were the main reason the Broncos 
beat the Patriots, as they both harassed 
Tom Brady all afternoon. All eyes will 
be on Peyton Manning since this likely 
going to be his final game. Manning 
has broken numerous NFL records 
in his illustrious career and will go 
down as one of the best quarterbacks 
to ever play the game. It would be a 
storybook ending to a fantastic career 
if he can end it with a Super Bowl win, 
especially considering how crazy this 
season has been. 
The Panthers are favored by 
five-and-a-half points in the latest 
Vegas polls in this game, and many 
experts are expecting them to handily 
beat the Broncos. But, as the saying 
goes, “defense wins championships, ” 
and you can never count out a great 
defense, especially one as good as the 
Denver Broncos. The key matchup to 
the Super Bowl will be between the 
Panthers’ offensive line and Broncos’ 
defensive line. If Miller and Ware can 
pressure Cam Newton and force him 
to make mistakes like they did with 
Brady, the Broncos will have a decent 
shot at completing the upset. But, if Newton has time to throw and run the 
ball, the Broncos will be in for a long 
night. The Broncos are also going to 
need big games from their receivers, 
specifically Demaryius Thomas and 
Emmanuel Sanders. If they can limit 
the amount of drops and move the 
ball down the field, it will put the 
Broncos in favorable position to win. 
This matchup is closer than people 
think and will ultimately come down 
to which team can force the other to 
make more mistakes. I predict the 
Panthers edging the Broncos behind 
the hands and legs of Cam Newton. 
Panthers 24 Broncos 20.SUPERBOWL
Super Bowl 50 Preview: Panthers Face-Off vs Broncos 
In what could Peyton Mannings last game, Denver’s tough defense looks to contain dual threat Cam Newton.
BY  d e v  j a i n
dev jain   
week  in
summar y
SOFTBALL
UCSDUCSD
6 - 1
5 - 8Azusa Pacific
Azusa Pacific
MEN'S
VOLLEYBALL
30 25 2528 19 22
Hawai’iUCSD
Photo Courtesy of NFL’s Ofﬁcial YoutubePhoto Courtesy of NFL’s Ofﬁcial YoutubeSPORTS
MEN
43 39 33 29 46 26Epee    Foil       Saber
WOMEN25 38 43 20 29 34Epee    Foil       SaberCONTACT THE EDITOR
MARCUS THUILLIER
O
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
Written by Daniel Hernandez // Staff Writer
Photo by Megan Lee // Associate Photo Editor
Design and Art by Sherman Aline // Associate Design Editor12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 4, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
Fencing Goes a Combined 6–9
The Tritons perfom well at the Northwestern Duals in Notre Dame against 
ranked competition, will host a four team competition on Saturday
 ver the weekend, the UCSD fencing team traveled to the University of Notre Dame 
in Indiana to take part in the tremendously competitive Northwestern Duals. The 
competition hosted 18 of the best teams in the nation over the course of two days, 
including Notre Dame, Stanford and Penn State.
The UCSD men faced four top-10 ranked teams and posted an overall record of 
3–4. The victories came against North Carolina (17–10), Cleveland State (21–6) and 
Detroit (22–5), although the Tritons faltered against No. 3 Penn (21–6), No. 4 Penn 
State (17–10), No. 9 Duke (15–12) and No. 10 Stanford (18–9).
The Tritons held a comfortable 43–20 advantage competing in foil, while 
going 25–38 in epee and 29–34 in saber.
Sophomore foilist David Hadler was a standout 
performer in the competition, going 18–5 overall 
and impressively holding a combined record of 
6–0 against Notre Dame (3–0) and Penn State 
(3–0), 2015 NCAA runner up.
From the Women’s perspective, the Tritons squared off versus five 
top-10 ranked teams and finished the competition with a 3–5 record. 
They secured wins against North Carolina (15–12), Cleveland State 
(21–6) and Detroit (25–2) while stumbling against No. 2 Notre Dame 
(17–10), No. 3 Princeton (16–11), No. 5 Northwestern (17–10), No. 8 
Penn State (20–7) and No. 10 Temple (14–13).
UCSD was highly competitive in the individual weapons, holding 
an advantage in both foil (33–29) and saber (49–26), while 
narrowly being bettered in epee (33–39).
Next up, the Tritons will be home to host a four-team 
competition on Feb. 6 at 6:30 p.m.  UCSD will look to ensure 
victories against Arizona State, Caltech and UC Irvine.  1/27
  1/27
  1/30
  1/30
2/3VS San Diego Christian
VS Princeton 
VS Concordia
VS Concordia
VS Point LomaW. Basketball
M. Basketball
M. Volleyball
Swim and Dive
M. TennisUPCOMING
UCSD
GAMES
The UCSD men’s volleyball team 
was swept by the No. 5-ranked 
University of Hawaii Manoa’s 
Rainbow W arriors in a Mountain 
Pacific Sports Federation match 
held at the Stan Sheriff Center. The 
Tritons were leading by as many as 
six points in the opening set and 
also had a set point. Ultimately, 
they lost the lead and the set, with 
the final scores for the game being 
30–28, 25–19 and 25–22. 
UCSD lost both road matches 
on the Hawaiian islands, making its 
record 3–7 and 0–6 in the MPSF, 
while the University of Hawaii now 
sits at an 8–1 record and is 3–1 
in league matches. The Rainbow 
Warriors look ahead to No. 1 
UCLA for two matches next week. 
Hawaii had a strong home court 
advantage as it beat the Tritons in 
front of 2,881 people and remains 
at a perfect 7–0 at home with 16 
consecutive home wins going back 
to last season.  
UCSD’s junior outside hitter 
Ian Colbert tied his career high 
with a team-leading 19 kills; it 
was his second game with 19 
kills in three matches, as he also 
had 19 kills against Princeton on 
Wednesday. He reached it on a 
single-match high of 46 attacks 
(.217). Sophomore middle blocker Alec Flowers hit a career best .600 
(7–1–10) while teammate junior 
middle blocker Shayne Beamer 
tied his career high with five total 
blocks. Senior outside hitter Kirill 
Rudenko had two service aces off 
the bench and junior outside hitter 
Josh Schmidt added nine kills and 
eight digs. Sophomore setter Milosh 
Stojcic finished off with 33 assists, 
eight digs, two blocks and two kills 
on three attacks. 
Senior outside hitter Sinisa 
Zarkovic had 21 kills for University 
of Hawaii, leading all players while 
hitting .594 (21–2–32). Hawaii 
out-blocked UCSD, 13.0–6.0, 
with junior middle blocker Ian 
McKellar getting seven by himself. 
Junior setter Jennings Franciskovic 
contributed 37 assists while senior 
libero Kolby Kanetake added 15 
digs.
UCSD got off to a fast start, 
coming out with a 7–3 advantage 
that led to Hawaii calling its first 
timeout of the night. Sophomore 
setter Tanner Syftestad and Flowers 
had a stuff block that gave the Tritons 
a 15–9 lead. The Rainbow Warriors 
would come back to tie it at 22, but 
Rudenko scored an ace that would 
lead to another Hawaii timeout. It 
was a set point after Syftestad added 
a kill, but that was short-lived as a 
kill by junior outside hitter Kupono 
Fey, and a combo block by Fey and 
Mckellar would give Hawaii its first 
set point. A Beamer kill would even the score once again. 
A service error and three kills by 
Zarkovic gave Hawaii four more set 
points. The Tritons would answer 
three set points with two kills by 
Colbert and one by Flowers. A solo 
block by junior middle blocker 
Hendrik Mol on Colbert gave the 
Rainbow W arriors the first set.
The second set saw the Tritons 
up 12–10, and quickly gain a couple 
of one-point leads and five tie 
scores. Hawaii would score the next 
five to force a timeout at 17–10, and 
it would be ahead by at least four 
points for the rest of the set. 
During the third set, the score 
was tied late at 22–22 before Hawaii 
finished the sweep by winning three 
points in a row.
The Tritons are back home for 
two conference matches this week. 
UCSD will host California Baptist 
on Feb. 5 and USC on Feb. 6. dev jain   
M. VOLLEYBALL
Tritons are swept in straight sets by No. 5 University of  Hawaii
UCSD can’t recover after losing a six point lead in the first set, men’s volleyball looks forward to California Baptist and USC next.
BY  d e v  j a i n
dev jain   
Photo by Megan Lee / UCSD Guardian