VOLUME 49, ISSUE 41   MONDA Y , MARCH 28, 2016  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIVING WITH 
NOMOPHOBIA
TODAY’S COLLEGE STUDENTS 
ARE BEING BOMBARDED WITH 
MORE APPS AND ONLINE 
SERVICES THAN EVER BEFORE. 
THE GUARDIAN INVESTIGATES 
THE LATEST TRENDS IN 
SMARTPHONE APPS AT UCSD.
FOOD  DELIVER Y'S  FUTURE
TRACK AND  FIELDCORPORA TE  T AKEOVERS
Golubovic  break s  recordOPINION, P AGE 4
sports,  P age  12
MONDAY
H 64 L 53TUESDAY
H 65 L 52
WEDNESDAY
H 64 L 50THURSDAY
H 65 L 52
FORECAST
VERBATIM
AS YOU HEAD OFF TO YOUR 
FIRST JOB INTERVIEW, MAKE 
SURE TO SAUNTER IN LIKE 
YOU OWN THE PLACE. COVER 
YOUR EYES WITH GLAMOROUS, 
OPAQUE SUNGLASSES AND 
FLAUNT A DESIGNER PURSE, 
WHILE WEARING A DISINTER -
ESTED, SMUG EXPRESSION ON 
YOUR FACE. “
Fake It Until You Make It
HOW-TO GURU
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
TOP NEWS OF WINTER ‘16..2
QUICK TAKES  .................. 4
BEHIND THE LECTURN  ....8
CROSSWORD  ................ 10
SOFTBALL  .................... 12FEA TURES,  P AGE  6
GRAPHIC BY ALEYA ZENIERIS
The UC Office of the President 
announced last Monday that UC 
campuses will collaborate with 
California Community Colleges to 
increase accessibility for students 
seeking to transfer from their 
community colleges to a UC campus. 
CCC allocated a total of $2.6 
million to the three-year partnership. 
According to UCOP’s press release, 
these funds will be spent on resources 
ranging from establishing summer 
bridge programs to hosting training 
workshops for CCC counselors.
UC President Janet Napolitano 
expressed optimism for the 
partnership, stating that it would 
facilitate higher rates of transfer enrollment in upcoming years.
“ As the University of California 
increases enrollment of Californians 
by 10,000 over the next three 
years, the outreach made possible 
by this collaboration, together 
with Transfer Pathways, will help 
us expand access for community 
college students, ” Napolitano said in 
a March 21 press release.
CCC Chancellor Brice Harris 
explained that the program offers 
support to students who he feels are 
as prepared for a university education 
as those who enroll in a university 
immediately after high school.
“This partnership will help diversify 
and expand the pool of community 
college students who want to transfer 
to UC, where we know they will have 
the same rate of success as students who enter as freshmen, ” Harris said in 
the press release.
UCOP and CCC aim to build upon 
their Transfer Pathways program, 
which provides prospective transfer 
students in the 21 most popular 
majors with an outline of suggested 
coursework that would prepare and 
qualify themselves for a transfer to one 
of the nine UC campuses. 
Approximately 30 percent of UC 
students began their higher education 
at a community college. The UC system 
expects this number to increase, since 
about a third of the 10,000 additional 
California residents it committed to 
enroll over the next three years will be 
transfer students. Officials Vote 
to Amend 
Discrimination 
GuidelinesUC REGENTS
The Principles Against 
Intolerance now include a 
denunciation of anti-Semitic 
forms of anti-Zionism.
BY   J a c ky  T o
The UC Board of Regents 
voted to amend the University of 
California’s Statement of Principles 
Against Intolerance to include a 
condemnation of anti-Semitic forms 
of anti-Zionism at last Wednesday’s 
Regents meeting. However, the 
committee declined to condemn anti-
Zionism as a form of discrimination 
in and of itself. 
Anti-Zionism — a political 
ideology that opposes Israel’s right 
to exist in Palestine — has raised a 
lot of questions at the UC campuses 
ever since 521 alumni along with 
23 education and Jewish advocacy 
groups submitted a petition to UC 
President Janet Napolitano last 
May. The petition called for the UC 
system to formally adopt the U.S. 
State Department’s definition of 
anti-Semitism, which denounces 
statements about Israel that demonize 
or delegitimize the nation.
UCSD Hillel of San Diego 
Director David Singer expressed his 
support for the resolution, calling it 
a step in the right direction for the 
UC system at which anti-Semitism 
has had tangible consequences. He 
said that it was “no coincidence” that 
UCSD’s Jewish student population 
declined by more than 60 percent 
over the last decade.
“Jewish students throughout the 
UC campuses have, for years, lived in 
the shadow of incidents of anti-Semitic 
speech, intimidation, vandalism and 
even violence, ” Singer told the UCSD 
Guardian. “Y esterday’s condemnation 
by the Regents is an important step in 
defining the problem and pledging to 
ensure that the university is hate-free 
for all students. ”
Examples of these incidents 
include one that occurred in 
February 2015, when vandals defaced 
a Jewish fraternity house at UC 
Davis with a Nazi swastika. More 
recently, members of UCLA ’s student 
government questioned a student’s 
ability to remain unbiased because 
she was Jewish, and they planned 
to reject her nomination to their 
judicial board until a faculty advisor 
intervened.
Originally, the amendment stated 
that “anti-Semitism, anti-Zionism and 
other forms of discrimination have no 
place at the University of California, ” 
implying that anti-Zionism is a form 
of discrimination. However, some 
across the UC campuses have raised 
concerns that this would infringe on UC Berkeley Agrees to Hire 
Subcontracted Workers
UC Berkeley announced that it would offer 
employment to nearly 100 workers contracted to 
work on the campus through private companies 
on Mar. 18. The decision came after threats of a 
“speaker’s boycott” from the University of California’s 
largest labor union — the American Federation of State, 
County and Municipal Employees, Local 3299 — over 
the outsourcing of jobs to companies that underpay 
their workers.
The University of California hires at least 45 different 
private companies to fill staffing positions across the UC 
campuses in the areas of custodial work, food services, 
landscaping, security, parking and more, according to an 
AFSCME 3299 report. The same report concluded that 
these workers are paid as little as 53 percent less than 
workers who are employed directly by the University of 
California and do not receive the same benefits.
The nearly 100 subcontracted workers, who were 
just recently hired by the university, were described as 
having “more than 440 years of combined experience 
working at UC Berkeley, ” but were paid below the wage of an official UC employee, according to Stenhouse.
AFSCME 3299 called for a guest speaker’s boycott 
at UC Berkeley in the spring if the administration 
did not bring these subcontracted workers under 
UC employment. Leaders, including state senators 
Carol Liu (D-La Canada Flintridge), Loni Hancock 
(D-Berkeley), human rights activist Angela Davis and 
various nonprofit directors cancelled or postponed 
their speaking arrangements at UC Berkeley to honor 
the boycott.
In addition, the union planned to picket former 
President Bill Clinton’s Global Initiative Event, which 
is scheduled to take place at UC Berkeley on April 1. 
However, AFSCME 3299 called off the boycott and 
the protest upon UC Berkeley’s announcement that 
administrators would hire the workers.
AFSCME 3299 President Kathryn Lybarger 
celebrated the UC administration’s decision to hire these 
workers on a decent wage and with benefits they did not 
have under their private-contractor companies.
“This agreement is an important first step that B y  JOSH    LEFLER     Associate SPORTS
Partnership Aims to Increase Transfer Outreach
California Community Colleges will spend $2.6 million on programs to support transfer students. See WORKERS , page 3
UC SYSTEM
BY  k r i t i   sa r i n
senior STAFF WRITER
See DISCRIMINATION , page 3UC SYSTEM
Kriti Sarin   ksarin@ucsd.edu
UCSD’s fencing team competed at the 2016 National Collegiate Men’s and Women’s Fencing Championship this past weekend.
Photo by Megan Lee /UCSD Guardian2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 28, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
WEEKLIES By Alex Lee
CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY  LONG BEACH
COLLEGE OF  CONTINUING AND  PROFESSIONAL EDUCATION
DOERS DOCSULB 2016More than 75 Online Summer Classes 
Registration Begins April 4
(800) 963-2250 | CCPE-info@csulb.edu
www.ccpe.csulb.edu/summer Two 6-Week Sessions 
May 23–July 1 (S1S)
July 5–August 12 (S3S)
 One 12-Week Session 
May 23–August 12 (SSD)
#DoersDo
@CSULBInterSessnSummer Sessions
Earn units toward 
your degreeNo formal 
admission to CSULB 
required Enroll on a 
“space available” 
basis
DO YOU TWEET? YAY SO DO WE!
@UCSDGua rdian
Dr. Terranova, Dr. Sherman, and Dr. Horne
TORREY PINES
DENTAL ARTS
We welcome UCSD Staff & Students
Richard L Sherman DDS
Steven B. Horne DDS
Scripps/Ximed Medical Center
9850 Genessee Avenue #720
La Jolla, CA 92037
858-453-5525
Info@TorreyPinesDentalArts.com
www.TorreyPinesDentalArts.com'"! $! $
$""
'"	!# !
'%""!
 !
'
!&!! #!
 " !! "	!
"	#!
CalCopyUCSD@gmai l.comLowest
Prices POSTER PRINTINGPRINT/ COPY FILES
'' FedExFastest
ServiceReaders printed in 1 day.Cal Copy UCSD Course Readers
SAME DAY COLOR POSTER PRINTING!The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. 9:33 p.m. on a Sunday? We need to go home.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Marketing Co-Directors
Peter McInnis, Haley Asturias
Training and Development Manager
Cedric Hyon
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Vincent Pham
Tina Butoiu
Jacky To
Josh Lefler
Cassia Pollock 
Quinn Pieper
Marcus Thuillier
Dev Jain
Allison Kubo
Oliver  Kelton
Karly Nisson
Brittney Lu
Olga Golubkova
Megan Lee
Christian Duarte
Joselynn Ordaz
Christina Carlson
Sophia Huang
Kenji Bennet
Jennifer Grundman
Sage Schubert ChristianEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
News Editor
 
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports Editors
Features Editor
Associate Features Editor
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Art Editors
Multimedia Editor
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Aleya Zeneiris
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim, Alicia Ho, Lisa Chik
Editorial Assistants
Sam Velazquez1. University Plans to Relocate 
Sixth College by 2019 (Jan. 14)
With plans moving forward 
to have a light rail run through the 
Sixth College area, UCSD officials 
proposed to relocate the college to 
the Muir Parking Lots. The proposal 
includes the construction of a 
social sciences building, possibly a 
humanities building and new living 
facilities that would house over 1,800 
undergraduates. If the plan goes 
through, the university expects the 
transition to be completed by 2019, 
two years before the light rail is built. 
2. UCSD Students Protest Anti-
Abortion Advocates (Jan. 19–20)
When the Center for Bio-Ethical 
Reform erected its large anti-abortion 
display on Library Walk early in the quarter, members of the panhellenic 
sorority Kappa Kappa Gamma, the 
A.S. Women’s Commission and 
the Women’s Center organized a 
protest directly across from it. The 
CBR display had images comparing 
the Holocaust and the lynching of 
African Americans to abortion, 
which some students argued were 
too extreme and graphic. 
3. A.S. Council Authorizes 
Election for Division-I Vote (Jan. 27)
Four years after 64 percent of 
UCSD voters rejected a move to 
Division-I sports, A.S. Council 
voted to hold a special election to 
let students decide once again. If the 
referendum passes, student fees will 
increase by a total of $160 per quarter 
by 2019 — $60 in 2017, an additional $55 in 2018 and another $55 in 2019 
— so that UCSD sports teams will get 
to compete in the nation’s top division 
in college athletics. The election is 
scheduled to take place between May 
16 and May 20.
4. UCSD to Build New Cafe on 
Library’s Second Floor (Feb. 25)
Audrey’s Cafe is set to open mid-
to-late May on the East Wing of 
Geisel Library’s second floor. The 
vendor will be open between 7:30 
a.m. and 10 p.m. from Monday 
through Thursday with shorter 
hours over the weekend and will 
serve drinks and food from Cafe 
Virtuoso and Bread & Cie, both of 
which are local businesses. Named 
after its primary donor and the 
wife of Dr. Seuss, Audrey Geisel, Audrey’s Cafe will be a main feature 
of the Geisel Library Revitalization 
Initiative.
5. A.S. Council Approves 
Resolution to Urge Divestment 
from Turkey (March 2)
Just a month after members of 
the Armenian Student Association 
held a silent protest at the Silent 
Tree with the word “DENIAL” 
taped to their mouths, A.S. Council 
unanimously approved the ASA ’s 
resolution to urge the UC Office 
of the President to withdraw the 
$74 million it has invested in the 
Republic of Turkey. The resolution 
is aimed at raising awareness 
about the Armenian Genocide and 
Turkey’s continued denial that the 
acts should be considered genocide.
1. UC System Divests from Private 
Prison Industry (Dec. 18)
The University of California 
divested $25 million worth of its shares 
from the nation’s two largest private 
prison corporations: Corrections 
Corporation of America and The 
Geo Group. The decision followed a 
report by the Afrikan Black Coalition 
revealing the university’s private prison 
investments and a resolution passed 
by all nine Black Student Unions 
calling on the university to divest 
immediately. UC Chief Investment 
Officer Jagdeep Bachher assured ABC 
that the university would divest the 
remaining $2 million in shares.
2. UC President Announces Plan 
to Add 14,000 Beds by 2020 (Jan. 20)
When UC President Janet 
Napolitano announced last Fall that 
the University of California would 
enroll an additional 5,000 students this 
upcoming school year and 10,000 over the next three years, many wondered 
how they would all fit. Months later, 
Napolitano announced the Student 
Housing Initiative, calling for a total 
14,000 beds to be added across the 
UC campuses by 2020. Following the 
announcement, UC officials began a 
tour of each campus to get a better 
understanding its housing goals.
3. UC Berkeley Officials Reveal 
Servers W ere Attacked (Feb. 26)
UC Berkeley informed over 
80,000 current and former students, 
employees and vendors that its financial 
system, which stores bank account and 
social security numbers, was breached 
nearly two months earlier. University 
officials stated that they could not 
reveal that the cyber attack happened 
until they ensured that the threat was 
expelled. The breach occurred amid an 
ongoing operation to patch a security 
flaw in its cybersecurity system that 
was exploited by another attack that happened at the campus 15 months 
earlier. Though officials maintain that 
there is no evidence that any sensitive 
information was accessed or used, 
they offered victims of the attack 
free enrollment in credit-monitoring 
services as a precaution.
4. UC Campuses to Establish 
Gender-Inclusive Restrooms (Mar. 1)
UC President Napolitano 
adopted a measure to convert all 
single-stall restrooms into gender-
inclusive, nonbinary spaces to 
protect transgender and gender-
nonconforming people from 
harassment. UC Davis was the first to 
begin this transition in February by 
removing gendered signs from 120 
restroom doors across its campus. In 
October, Affordable Colleges Online 
included UCSD, UC Berkeley and 
UC Irvine on its list of the top 23 
most LGBTQ-friendly universities in 
the nation.5. State Legislator Calls for UC 
Davis Chancellor to Resign (Mar. 4)
Assemblymember Kevin McCarty 
called for UC Davis Chancellor 
Linda Kathei to resign from her 
position after he and the public 
learned that she took positions at 
both DeVry, a for-profit university 
and at textbook publisher John 
Wiley & Sons. Katehi apologized 
for her actions and announced that 
she would donate the $200,000 she 
earned from her Wiley stocks to a 
UC Davis scholarship fund. Though 
UC President Janet Napolitano 
deemed Katehi’s decision a mistake, 
she accepted the chancellor’s apology 
and told the Sacramento Bee that 
she should not resign. During finals 
week last quarter, approximately 40 
UC Davis students, staff and faculty 
protested in the campus’ Office of 
the Chancellor, demanding that 
Napolitano “Fire Katehi. ”Top UCSD News of  Winter Quar ter
Top UC System News of  Winter Quar terfree speech. 
Among them is the UC Academic 
Council, which sent its own letter 
to the Regents stating that the 
amendment would harm academic 
freedom. The council argued 
that it would cause “needless and 
expensive litigation, embarrassing 
to the university, to sort out the 
difference between intolerance 
on the one hand, and protected 
debate and study of Zionism and its 
alternatives on the other. ” 
Moreover, when the Guardian 
spoke to UCSD’s Students for Justice 
in Palestine last November, the 
organization expressed fear that the 
revision would silence all perspectives 
that opposed Israel.
“ Any critique of Israeli policy, because of the nation’s identity as 
a Jewish state, would be labeled as 
anti-Semitic, ” SJP said in a statement. 
“ Anti-Zionist activity, such as that of 
SJP , strives to amplify Palestinian 
voices calling for their right to 
self-determination and their right 
to return to their homeland. This 
policy seeks to silence and censor 
these voices. ”
Following these complaints, 
Regent Norman Pattiz, who proposed 
the amendment, revised it to state that 
“anti-Semitism, anti-Semitic forms 
of anti-Zionism and other forms of 
discrimination have no place at the 
University of California. ” 
Singer applauded the revision, 
stating that it ensures that people can 
use their First Amendment rights by 
only targeting political beliefs that 
cross over into hateful speech. “Freedom of speech is paramount, 
and we are encouraged that the 
resolution affirms this fact, ” Singer 
said. “We respect the right of students 
to speak out for politics that they 
believe in. Y et, all too often we have 
seen criticism of Israel elicit deeply 
anti-Semitic undertones, or, worse, 
result in attacks on Jewish students. ”
The University of California stands 
as the first and only public university 
system so far that has reaffirmed its 
opposition to anti-Semitic behavior.
The Guardian contacted the UC 
Office of the President and Students 
for Justice in Palestine regarding 
the UC Board of Regents’ recent 
decision, but neither could not 
respond by press time.… ends the exploitation of our 
colleagues at UC Berkeley … and 
reduces the drain on the California’s 
taxpayer subsidized social safety net 
by pulling nearly a hundred families 
out of poverty, ” Lybarger said in a 
Mar. 21 press release.
AFSCME 3299 spokesman Todd 
Stenhouse told the UCSD Guardian 
that if the administration can 
directly hire and provide benefits to 
these workers, then it can hire others 
at the remaining UC campuses.
“[The University of California’s] 
settlement acknowledges that its 
use and abuse of subcontractors 
had nothing to do with temporary 
seasonal staffing needs, and that 
it has the ability to do right by 
these workers, ” Stenhouse said. “We 
know that there are many more 
similarly situated workers across the UC system, and believe that their 
service to the [UC] warrants direct 
employment with the university. ”
The UC administration has 
yet to make a statement on the 
decision to hire the subcontracted 
workers at UC Berkeley. However, 
this past February, the UC Office 
of the President told the Guardian 
that, despite what AFSCME 3299 
claimed, there was “no violation of 
the collective bargaining agreement” 
and that “the rationale employed by 
the campus was sound. ”
Lyaberger promised that 
AFSCME 3299 would continue 
to challenge the UC system’s use 
of subcontracted workers at the 
remaining UC campuses.
“We will continue to fight [the 
UC system’s] reliance on private 
contractors for its permanent 
staffing needs across the UC 
system, ” Lyaberger said. “Nothing could be more at odds with the 
public mission of our state’s third 
largest employer than awarding 
multi-million dollar contracts to 
companies that profit from growing 
the ranks of California’s Medicaid-
reliant working poor. ”
Stenhouse noted that a measure 
was currently being discussed in 
the California Senate to guarantee 
equal pay for subcontracted workers. 
Senate Bill 959 would guarantee 
“equal pay for equal work” for the 
UC system’s subcontracted work 
force. Originally proposed in the 
California Senate by Senator Ricardo 
Lara (D-Bell Gardens) as Senate BB 
376, it was vetoed by Gov. Brown 
after a “fierce, UC led lobbying 
campaign against the measure,” 
according to the press release.NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 28, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
Union Promises to Continue Fighting for Subcontracted Workers’ Rights
Regents Revised Original Proposal in Response to Free Speech Complaints▶ WORKERS,  from page 1
▶ DISCRIMINATION,  from page 1JOSH  LEFLER   JLEFLER@ucsd.edu
JACKY TO   j6TO@ucsd.eduLIGHTS & SIRENSLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edu.
Monday, Mar. 21
8:44 a.m. Welfare Check
Employee on leave has shown up 
several times. Field interview.
11:09 a.m. Medical Aid
Adult female fainted.  Referred to 
other agency.
6:03 p.m. Chemical Spill
200 mL of Trichloroacetic Acid, no 
contamination.  Referred to other 
UCSD department.
7:56 p.m. Drunk Driving
Male leaving restaurant with glass, 
unknown if filled with alcohol. 
Checks OK.
11:54 p.m. Citizen Flagdown
Directions needed.  Service 
provided.
5:00 p.m. to 6:45 a.m. Petty theft
Stolen driver side mirror, loss 
$200.00.  Online report.
Tuesday, Mar. 22
9:30 a.m. Trespass
Report of transient refusing to leave 
Music Building; subject then got 
onto bus and was ordered off after 
touching and harassing other bus 
riders.  Stay-away order issued. 
10:01 a.m Fire Alarm
Burnt food.  Checks OK.
9:13 p.m Information
Suspicious vehicle, took off when 
approached by Residential Security 
Officer.  Information only.Wednesday, Mar. 23
11:27 a.m. Gas/Water/Sewer Leak
Fumes in air, possibly from product 
used in lab.  Referred to other UCSD 
department.
2:10 p.m. Disturbance
Report of two men shooting pellet 
guns at log where children are 
around.  Report taken.
2:12 to 2:15 p.m. Petty theft
Unknown subject stole victim’s 
iPad, loss $360.00.  Report taken.
4:27 p.m. Vandalism
Resident Dean requesting 
evaluation of possible vandalism in 
apartment caused by resident.  Field 
interview.
4:30 p.m. Felony Arrest
Arrest made on burglary case 
reported in October of 2015. Closed 
by adult arrest.
10:45 p.m. Disturbance
During check of suite for complaint 
of rowdiness, Resident Advisors 
found group of students in 
possession of several types of 
alcohol and detected a strong odor 
of marijuana.  Referred to Student 
Conduct.
11:16 p.m. Disturbance
Male on bus refusing to pay bus 
fare.  Field Interview.
— JACKY  TO 
News Editor
See more
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 28, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
CONTACT THE EDITOR
CASSIA POLLOCK
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
See UBER EATS, page 5We live in an era of instant grati fication and easily accessible 
resources. Gone, for the most part, are televisions that can’t be 
accessed with the click of a trackpad, music that can’t immediately 
be streamed and now — on the large corporate platform of cab-
hailing network Uber — restaurant food that can’t be delivered 
with a tap on a smartphone screen. While smaller companies have 
already been o ffering food delivery service via apps, Uber CEO 
Travis Kalanick’s recent announcement that the company will o ffer 
food delivery through UberEATS brings the concept to a national 
and corporate level, and promises to be one major part of the 
vulnerable future of workers and customers alike in the era of apps.
The announcement by Uber lumps the app together with a 
host of others Grubhub, Eat24, Seamless, Postmates, DoorDash 
by combining ride-service with food delivery. With UberEATS, 
reports Wired, users may call for a driver to pick up food from 
participating restaurants before delivering it to them. As stated by Jason Droege, whose title is “Head of Uber 
Everything, ” the app does not o ffer rides: It merely serves as 
Uber’s own food-delivery branch, which has existed within Uber 
on a much smaller and more con fined level. In implementing 
UberEATS, the company makes another enemy — on top of 
taxi drivers — by pushing out smaller apps of a similar nature. 
According to the LA Times, SF company Sidecar, a food-delivery 
app, sold its assets to General Motors at the end of 2015, and 
SpoonRocket shut down the day a fter the creation of UberEATS 
due to an “ever-tightening funding environment. ” Despite the 
company’s prowess, though, even Uber is not immune to such an 
environment, and its issues thus far make the future of UberEATS 
simultaneously more promising for the company and concerning 
for its drivers.
It is no secret that Uber has exploited and even trapped 
workers, beginning with its key element: There are no workers. 
QUICK TAKESIN RESPONSE TO PUBLIC ACCUSATIONS OF ANIMAL RIGHTS ABUSE AFTER BLACKFISH DOCUMENTARY, SEAWORLD 
HAS RECENTLY ANNOUNCED ITS DECISION TO END THE THEME PARK’S BREEDING PROGRAM FOR KILLER WHALES.How-to 
Guru: Fake 
It, Until 
You Make It
In this competitive job market, 
the task of finding a career straight 
out of college can be a daunting 
task. With a feeling of trepidation, 
students at UCSD approach spring 
quarter knowing that this may be 
their last chance to find an alternative 
to moving back in with their 
parents. Whether you’ve majored 
in Bioengineering or Pop Cultural 
Studies, you’re dead-set on finding 
a job. Either way it’s not going to be 
easy. Time is rapidly diminishing 
as students troll Port Triton and the 
Career Services Center in hopes of 
finding full-time employment. Take a 
deep breath, relax and do not despair. 
The wise, all-knowing How-to Guru is 
here to assist students in their rigorous 
quest for employment.
The first step is to fake it until 
you make it. Most importantly, stop 
trying so hard as this will make 
you look desperate and needy. 
Reflect for one moment on your 
flaws and limitations, and then 
smoothly transition into carefully 
suppressing this self-awareness. Take 
all semblances of humility and then, 
like Elder McKinley says in the Book 
of Mormon, just turn it off, like a light 
switch. Look in the mirror and give 
yourself a little wink. Go ahead and 
inflate your ego. Sing self-motivational 
songs like “Everything is Awesome” 
from “The Lego Movie. ” Perhaps you 
don’t have a fleshed-out resume or 
quantifiable achievements, but this 
hardly represents your true value. 
Remember that as an inexperienced 
college student with minimum 
qualifications willing to work for a 
low salary, you are God’s gift to the 
job industry — a gold mine of cheap 
labor. Don’t forget to grin and bear it.
Consider the following tip when 
writing your resume and cover letter: 
Include power words that exude 
confidence and authority — utilize 
power verbs like “lead, ” “manage, ” 
“excel, ” “win” and “rise” at the 
beginning of each sentence.
As you head off to your first job 
interview, make sure to saunter in like 
you own the place. Cover your eyes 
with glamorous, opaque sunglasses 
and flaunt a designer purse, while 
wearing a disinterested, expression 
on your face. If the interviewer says 
“Tell me about yourself, ” confidently 
respond, “I am the ideal candidate 
for this position. ” When pressed 
for further explanations, bat your 
eyelashes and say, “My qualifications 
speak for themselves. ”
When the HR Director asks why 
this specific company appeals to you, 
channel your inner April Ludgate and 
boredly reply, “It’s okay, I guess. ” To 
prevent any further doubts about your 
apathy, glance down at your phone 
and pretend to text your friends while 
the interviewer continues asking 
pointless questions. Don’t forget to 
send the company a congratulatory 
email after the interview, to let it know 
how fortunate it was to receive the 
pleasure of your company. 
Upon receiving your job offer, 
abruptly email the employer that 
you’re no longer interested, as a better 
opportunity has appeared. This will 
emphasize what a catch you are. With 
this helpful career guide, you’ll get a 
full-time, high-paying job in no less 
than 10 years. Happy job hunting.Decision to Halt Breeding Program Demonstrates the 
Initiative of  SeaWorld to Reform Treatment of  OrcasPublic Announcement to End Breeding Efforts is Empty, 
Without Concrete Plan to Change Business Malpractices
Three years ago, the story of SeaWorld’s captive orca Tilikum 
was illuminated by “Blackfish, ” a documentary that highlighted the 
mistreatment of killer whales at SeaWorld and fueled the public pressure 
for the park to change its ways. SeaWorld President and CEO Joel Manby’s 
recent decisions both to stop the orca breeding program and to phase 
out orca shows displays a definitive response to the adverse publicity of 
“Blackfish” and the constant protesting by animal-rights activists. With 
this announcement, SeaWorld is taking the first steps necessary toward 
completely curtailing the use of orcas for public enjoyment, demonstrating 
the power of protest and the urgent need to take further action.
Manby’s announcement yielded considerable praise from SeaWorld 
critics, including the director of “Blackfish, ” Gabriela Cowperthwaite, 
who had noted that this moment “marks truly meaningful change. ” It’s 
no surprise that SeaWorld made distinct modifications to its business 
model. According to Forbes, with vacationers increasingly bypassing 
SeaWorld and regulators encircling the shows and investors punishing the 
enterprise, it is clear that the documentary made a significant impact on 
the SeaWorld’s future.
 In the same release, Manby elucidates SeaWorld’s renovation as more 
of an “educational experience, ” emphasizing marine-science study, research 
and rescue operations. The park’s policy change is highly influential because 
it may encourage other zoos, circuses and parks to reconsider their policies 
on animal captivity. As stated by Senior Vice President of PETA Lisa Lange, 
due to “Blackfish” and its effect on SeaWorld’s popularity, public opinion 
on exploiting animals for entertainment has dramatically changed. Thus, 
SeaWorld’s decision signals the impact that voices of dissent can make.
While efforts to move away from degrading shows and toward marine-
life education are steps in the right direction, they are still only first steps. 
In fact, according to PETA and Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Calif.), the fact 
remains that as long as SeaWorld keeps its orcas in captivity, their physical 
and psychological problems will perpetuate. Schiff recently unveiled the 
Orca Responsibility and Care Advancement Act, which would outlaw 
breeding and importing orca whales into the U.S. for the purpose of public 
exhibition. Such bills prove that much more needs to be done to create 
safe ocean sanctuaries for these highly intelligent mammals. Nonetheless, 
SeaWorld’s efforts and encouragement of other parks to follow suit show 
promise for the future of animal rights advocacy.
             — AARTHI VENKAT
Staff WriterSeaWorld’s recent announcement that it will end its breeding program 
for killer whales — meaning the current orca population will be the 
last captive generation — has been met with public praise. This historic 
change has come after the violent deaths of two trainers and rising 
public sentiment against the unnatural practice of capturing and training 
whales. Despite the promise this decision shows for animal rights, this 
announcement must be followed up with a comprehensive plan of action 
for complete reform.
Following SeaWorld’s statement, former senior killer whale trainer 
John Hargrove voiced his optimism about the move on Vox. As a witness 
of SeaWorld’s profit-driven management of the orca program, Hargrove 
wrote that many questions are left unanswered by this decision. For this 
to be a historic moment, he argues that there need to be clear protocols 
to prevent captive whale pregnancy and that there should be transparency 
about any side deals that have made this possible. Further, Hargrove 
points out that at this moment SeaWorld still has one pregnant whale who 
was artificially inseminated before the public announcement ending the 
breeding program. This shows how SeaWorld is still intent on maintaining 
its orca program, and how this announcement was calculated to foster 
public trust again.
SeaWorld has made announcements such as this in the past, without 
following them up with significant changes. In 2014, following the release 
of the critical documentary “Blackfish, ” SeaWorld announced plans to 
expand its orca enclosure. However, in an article in The Wire, activists 
noted the obvious intent to reverse public backlash resulting from 
“Blackfish” — not to change the park’s basic business model. SeaWorld 
is primarily a profit-driven themepark, though its previous and current 
press statements have emphasized its scientific and educational role in 
promoting conservation. With the release of “Blackfish, ” SeaWorld wrote 
to CNN saying that the film disregarded the park’s renown as a “zoological 
establishment. ” Even currently, CEO Joel Manby wrote in a guest column 
in the Richmond Times that SeaWorld is a “zoological organization” 
committed to wildlife conservation, glossing over the entertainment 
characteristics of the parks. Clearly, SeaWorld is very invested in its public 
image, and though this announcement presents hope for the future, 
it remains to be seen whether the theme park will break from its past 
pattern of talk and no action.
                                 — SOPHIE OSBORN
                             Staff WriterIf you want a burrito, there’s an app for that. Uber 
delivery services re-emphasizes the culture of instant 
gratification and failure to support small businesses.BY QUINN PIEPER // ASSOCIATE EDITORILLUSTRA TION   B Y  CHRISTIA CARLSON
DINNER  ON  DEMAND:
THE   CORPORA TE   FUTURE   
OF   FOOD  DELIVER YOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 28, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
UCSD  4.6875” W x 8” H
Designed for working professionals, this program prepares students for 
careers in applied behavioral analysis (ABA).
Having gained the knowledge and experience necessary to treat children 
and adults with autism spectrum disorders, graduates are highly 
competent practitioners in a high-growth field.To transform lives.
Her strategy: A 
Master of Science 
in Behavioral 
Psychology  
from Pepperdine.ana’s   ambition:
To start your transformation, get in touch today.
310.568.5600 or 866.503.5467  
gsep-recruitment@pepperdine.edu • gsep.pepperdine.edu SE1602043 MS BehSci Ads.indd   10 2/17/16   4:42 PM
Uber’s Business Merging App System Dominates Economy, Pushing Out Smaller Delivery and Ridesharing ServicesTHE LITTLE RINTRAH By Eileen Shi
According to Forbes, Uber hires 
drivers as independent contractors 
and is not forced to o ffer 
entitlements like minimum wage, 
overtime, workers’ compensation, 
unemployment, health insurance 
or lower taxes. This, in turn, means 
that Uber drivers are not required 
to work solely for Uber. However, 
Ellen Huet from Forbes reported 
that such freedom is not always 
available for Uber drivers.
Uber’s earlier move to 
compensate for its fare cuts meant 
lowering commission for Uber on 
individual rides and then increasing 
them again, while o ffsetting them with a guarantee of higher rates for 
drivers. The catch is the rules that 
Uber drivers must follow in order 
to receive this improved wage: This 
includes accepting 90 percent of 
ride requests, doing one trip per 
hour and being online 50 out of 
every 60 minutes of work. This 
restricts drivers, many of whom 
work for other rideshare services 
and are on two or three apps at 
once, by basically making them 
have the dedication of an Uber 
driver without the entitlements and 
bene fits. 
Given the prior practices of 
Uber, the idea of cornering the 
food-delivery industry may hold 
ominous futures for drivers. But not all major rideshare apps yield 
the same future career status 
for drivers. Ly ft, like Uber, is 
expanding through partnerships 
with General Motors — which 
entails a $500 million investment 
in the ridesharing service — and 
Starbucks, which hints at the 
rideshare company’s next step. 
In a piece for Fast Company, Ly ft 
co-founder and president John 
Zimmer describes this as a system 
of bene fits for the company’s drivers 
and for Starbucks employees: 
baristas will occasionally get a free 
Lyft ride to work, Ly ft drivers will 
automatically get Gold status in the 
Starbucks Rewards loyalty program 
and whatever it takes, Zimmer says, to ensure “the best possible 
experience to get both your co ffee 
and your ride. ” General Motors’ 
role in the partnership lies in the 
creation of rental hubs, where 
people interested in driving for Ly ft 
can rent for cheap, and of a joint-
network for self-driving cars.
If Uber — which is losing 
$1 billion in China, according 
to Fortune — is prioritizing 
global presence, dominance and 
power over drivers, UberEATS 
may end up being an extension 
of what already exists. Smaller 
restaurant-delivery apps fall prey 
to such a corporation’s expansion. 
Simultaneously, Ly ft seeks to 
connect drivers to the co ffee world through a mutually bene ficial 
partnership. Last week, American 
Apparel became the first retailer to 
partner with Postmates, another 
delivery app for both food and 
goods, by o ffering the delivery of 
clothes for a promotional delivery 
charge of $1.99, reports the Chicago 
Tribune. The future of business and 
app-technology, though unclear, 
is clearly merging, leaving smaller 
businesses that previously o ffered 
similar services to wither away. 
Whether major rideshare-delivery 
corporations invest in their own 
drivers, however, is less clear.
QUINN  PIEPER                                ▶ UBER EATS from page 4GOT ISSUES?
SEND YOUR 
LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 28, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
ALLISON  KUBO
features@ucsdguardian.org
Patting your pockets, checking all of the compartments in your 
backpack, searching the desk around you, frantically, you look 
for your smartphone. When you don’t find it, say hello to 
nomophobia: the fear of losing or being without your phone. Coined by 
the UK Post Office in 2010, no-mobile-phone-phobia is a real source 
of anxiety that affects around 66 percent of adults, according to a UK 
YouGov survey. 
While it seems like the very definition of a first world problem, this 
anxiety is understandable considering that individual college students 
spend an average of 30 hours on their cellphones per week, according 
to a survey run by College Explorer, a marketing company targeting 
millennials.   
Considering this data, it isn't surprising that college students are 
the early adopters of application and web services. As early adopters, 
students spread, publicize and incorporate apps into their lives before 
the rest of the population. This has been seen over and over again with 
sites such as Facebook, which has over 1.55 billion active users, or 21.7 
percent of the world’s population.
According to research by the Quello Center for Telecommunication 
Management and Law at Michigan State University, college students 
represent a critical part of smartphone adoption and smartphone 
app adoption. However, this proclivity, the choice that can make or 
break a hopeful young company, is strongly affected by peer usage and 
financial costs. In other words, we want something free that all our 
friends are also using. 
The UCSD Guardian set out to find out what apps are responsible 
for cell phones eating up over a day out of our week. When it comes 
to social media, 55.1 percent of those surveyed preferred Facebook 
to Instagram, Twitter or Snapchat. One third of those who answered 
noted that they preferred it because “everyone has it. ” When it comes to 
ridesharing, Uber garnered 65 percent preference over Lyft and other 
services. The reasoning for preferences varied from dependability 
to the quality of user interface, but price played a large role and 
influenced 30 percent of those who responded. However, another 20 
percent said they favored Uber because it was the first ridesharing 
service they tried.
In light of these facts, up-and-coming apps and and online services 
need to get a lot of early adopters to ensure long-term success. 
Currently, three companies and their services are coming to UCSD to 
try to get Tritons as early adopters. 
Trebel, a music company that hopes to eclipse Spotify, is set to 
launch at UCSD early this quarter. The application allows you to 
download music onto your phone at no cost, other than your attention 
to some ads. Trebel operates using a coin system where every play is 
a certain number of coins and you earn more coins by watching an 
advertisement while your songs are downloading. In addition, the app 
generates social activity by showing users what music is currently being 
Spotify 53%
Youtube 15.6%
Pandora 12.2%
0ther 12.2%
Soundcloud and 
Google play 6.6%Nomophobia: Our Dependency on 
Smartphone Apps
In our interconnected world, putting down your phone 
is becoming increasingly harder to do. The Guardian 
investigated the most popular apps occupying UCSD 
students’ time and some new apps trying to break into the 
college student market.
Design by Aleya Zenieris  by Allison Kubo // Features Editor     
See NOMOPHOBIA , page 8FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 28, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
Postmates 76.7%
Facebook 55.6%
Other 55.6%Facebook 26.4%CNN 9.7%Snapchat 24.4%Instagram 13.3%Twitter and
 Bubbl 6.7%
Twitter 8.3%Reddit 6.9%
iphone news, 
BBC and Npr  
12.6%Grubhub 11.6%
Doordash 4.7%other 7%
Number of Respondents for the Survey was 90 studdents.8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 28, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
Perhaps it is Professor Cristina Rivera-Garza’s unconventional philosophy toward writing that 
makes her one of the most prolific Mexican writers of her generation. The award-winning author of six 
novels, three short-story collections, five collections of poetry and three nonfiction books doesn’t agree 
with the widespread notion that the novel is a sociopolitical commodity, an object to be scrutinized, 
interpreted and siphoned for every drop of topical criticism it may contain. Instead, Rivera-Garza sees 
it is as a vessel for exploring the limits of our own humanity, a medium with the power to solve the 
most perplexing paradoxes of our time. 
She doesn’t acknowledge the standard process of writing, in which an author meticulously maps 
out a story from point A to point B, filling the space in between with eloquent prose. That would be 
much too “boring, ” she says, and much too easy. 
For Rivera-Garza, writing is a critical practice that stirs the spirit and connects back to the 
“ceaseless work of community. ” Her work is as much a laborious meditation on the self as it is a fearless 
outpouring of her innermost thoughts, ideas and emotions.
“I write to investigate enduring mysteries, what we might describe as enigmas, ”  Rivera-Garza told 
the UCSD Guardian. “The things that are impossible to explain; questions that have tormented or 
allured philosophers. When I find that my subject can be easily normalized, I lose interest and begin 
again with something new. ”
According to Rivera-Garza, the purpose of writing is to create vivid literary realities that will remove 
her readers from their time and place, revealing to them another angle of the human experience and 
challenging their preconceptions of what it means to exist. She is not as interested in telling them how 
to perceive truths and untruths. 
“We don’t write to represent ourselves, ” Rivera-Garza explained. “But to leap — this vertiginous, 
maddening, at times glorious leap — out of ourselves and into the lives of others: What is it like to be 
a plant? A rock? A man? A planet?”Her experimental writing style of beginning without a predetermined end often leads her down 
many dead end paths. Sometimes it takes two failed attempts, sometimes 10 and sometimes more, 
yet as her writing career shows, with diligence and unreserved passion, great literary works are made. 
“It takes discipline and a deliberate choice to sit down and put your thoughts to paper, ” Rivera-
Garza told the Guardian. “Even if you only write one sentence a day, that’s 375 sentences in a year. 
That’s the start of something. ” 
As one of Mexico’s best-known writers, Rivera-Garza offers students a unique educational 
experience in writing creatively using the English language instead of Spanish, her native language 
that she primarily writes in. Undoubtedly, much of the meaning of foreign literary works are “lost in 
translation” when converted to English, but, for Rivera-Garza’s students, much is gained as they are 
taught innovative ways of structuring sentences, crafting stories and selecting subjects as they draw 
from the poetic nature of their professor’s native tongue. 
Moreover, Rivera-Garza is highly aware of the ways in which people are reading literature today, 
noting that while the physical book is on the wane, it will never entirely disappear. Still, she is a 
supporter of the digital realm as a venue for publishing creative work, actively blogging and breaking 
ground on Twitter, where she coined the term “tweetnovel” — a timeline of tweets as tweeted by a 
fictional character. Through her work she focuses on ways in which millennials can broadcast their 
writing sans the traditional print publisher. 
With the classic 140-character limit on Twitter, every word is critical. But to Rivera-Garza, online 
and off, every character is more than just important; the power and influence of the written word is 
central to Rivera-Garza’s interest in writing. With every letter, word and sentence, she asks herself how 
her artwork might affect our world and what that might entail. 
“ As writers we must be aware of how our writing will change or influence the world, ” Rivera-Garza 
said. “We must know our aims. Then, and only then, may we create. ”downloaded or listened to on their campuses.  
Demonstrating the service to the UCSD Guardian, CEO Gary Mekikian emphasized  that this 
application is completely different than Spotify, Pandora or other less legal music-streaming services. 
“College students need music the most and are least able to pay the subscription fees and 
download fees, ” Mekikian said. “Young people have a wonderful addiction to music, and they 
need music while socializing, partying, studying, working out or just relaxing. This is the reason 
why college students listen to more music than any other demographic. College students also 
are totally mobile, using their smartphones for everything, including listening to music.  At the 
moment, there is no legal, on-demand, mobile music service that allows offline playback and 
does not use expensive data plans. ” 
Trebel aims to use UCSD and other select universities as trial runs and then expand. Mekikian 
told the Guardian that they chose UCSD because of its unique student body. 
“ As we prepare to roll out the service to 3,000 colleges and universities nationwide, we are 
making Trebel Music available at select universities first to work closely with early adopters of our 
service to perfect the system, ” Mekikian noted. “We’re coming to UCSD first because the student 
body is diverse and actively uses social media. This diversity and social-media savvy perfectly 
matches what Trebel Music offers. ” 
As early adopters, UCSD student have a singular opportunity to try to spread a new music 
streaming service, according to Mekikian. However, Spotify currently dominates the field for UCSD 
students with 53.9 percent preference. Of those who chose Spotify over SoundCloud, Pandora and 
other competitors, 65.2 percent cited its convenience as the deciding factor. 
Meanwhile, uCribs, a housing website that aims to serve the next round of house hunters as 
leases expire and more students leave the safety and expense of on-campus housing. The service 
connects students to landlords, or to possible subleases, while also calculating driving costs, 
assigning walkability scores and providing average rent data for the area. uCribs also allows users 
to share listings with potential roommates as well as their family.
Vice President Colin Kish told the Guardian that they chose to focus on students after enduring 
their own challenges with housing and leasing. 
“We were all college students and went through the headaches associated with off-campus 
rentals, ” Kish told the Guardian. “We offer technology and features within our platform that cater to 
the off-campus student housing niche …[which] the larger companies, like Craigslist, do not offer 
features specifically designed for college students. ”
The uCribs team also relies on students’ habits with technology use to popularize their service. 
“The typical demographic of college students, the 18–24 age range, are usually tech savvy, 
making it a great fit for our service, ” Kish said. “Our platform offers students the opportunity to 
utilize creative and purpose built features to solve the off-campus housing search puzzle that so 
many students go through each year.During this same time period Pocket Points, an app that offers a variety of discounts to students 
for attending lecture, plans to expand to UCSD in the near future. Founded by former college 
students Mitch Gardner and Rob Richardson in the fall of 2014, the app works through a unique 
system that benefits both students and the businesses they patronize. To earn points, a student locks 
her phone through the app, ensuring that they are not using it during class. Using these points, 
students can get a variety of discounts from local businesses. At the same time, Pocket Points works 
with these businesses to determine what type of discount works best for them. After a brief free trial 
period, businesses pay a small subscription fee to use the app, allowing the app to stay profitable. 
Since starting at CSU Chico in the fall of 2014, Pocket Points has grown to serve more than 100 
university campuses nationwide. 
“The biggest change I think is we used to only have local shops on the app, like pizza places and 
yogurt shops, but now we actually have a whole section of online stores, as well as sunglasses shops 
and clothing boutiques, ” Mitch Gardner told the Guardian. “We used to just be an app with local 
vendors in it but now we have the online businesses too. ”
Beyond giving students a discount, Gardner sees Pocket Points as a possible cure for our 
generation’s nomophobia.
“Pocket Points is helping people study, and people always write messages to us saying that they 
stay on campus longer and they only go to class because of Pocket Points, ” Gardner said.  “So I think 
it helps so many different people, from students to business owners to even teachers, and that’s kind 
of how it sticks out from other apps. I don’t think anyone else is really doing that combination. ”
Still, Gardner acknowledges that Pocket Points has its limits.  While it can keep students off 
their cellphones, there is no guarantee that they will stay off their computers as well, which can be 
equally addicting.
“If they are watching Netflix or looking at Facebook in class that’s not what we want them to 
do, but I don’t think there’s anything we can do to change that, ” Gardner said. “But if we can keep 
them from texting on their phone or looking at Instagram and Snapchat during class then we are 
at least mitigating the problem. ”
The variety of apps available to today’s college students certainly makes some aspects of life 
easier, but, as Gardner notes, cutting back on phone use in general can have a positive impact on 
people’s lives as well.
“I think it really helps people out getting that little extra incentive to focus in class and get their 
head out of the screen they’re looking at, ” Gardner said. “It’s obviously something that’s been going 
on for a few years; people are almost addicted to their cellphones and I don’t think they really 
want to be. ”
Allison  Kubo   akubo@ucsd.edu readers can contact▶ NOMOPHOBIA , from page 6
How To Write with Cristina Rivera-GarzaMa tthew Zamudio  mattzamudio.ca@gmail.comBehind the  Lecturn
Find   out  more 
ucsdguardian.orgONLINECALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 28, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
ARTPOWER PRESENTS  JOSE JAMES
THE LOFT, PC EASTSAT 4.02 • 8pmTahrirCAMPUS
CALENDAR
MAR 28 - APR 32016 POWERED BY THE CHANCELLOR’S OFFICE AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY in The GuardianCalenda r
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@ucsdguardian.orgMON 3.28 THU 3.31 WED 3.30
10am
NEW SP16 COURSE: LIGN 5. LINGUISTICS OF INVENTED 
LANGUAGES - CSB 002
How do you create a language from scratch? Why would 
anyone want to do this? These are some of the questions 
addressed in LIGN 5. Students will explore a number of existing 
invented languages, including the languages from the 
Renaissance designed to clarify thinking, the 19th-century 
languages designed to improve international communication, 
and the languages of our own time designed to make the 
fictional peoples of books and movies seem more real and 
life-like. Students will see how our ability to create languages 
has gone hand in hand with our scientific understanding of 
how human languages work. Basic design principles for 
creating new languages will be a central part of the course and 
students will use these to develop their own languages.
SAT 4.02
8am-8pm 
MAKEATHON 2016 •  SATURDAY & SUNDAY
MakeAThon is a 36-hour CAD design and 3D printing 
competition. In this competition, participants will work in 
teams to design, model and print out their products. The 
competition has two divisions for advanced and beginner 
levels. It is beginner-friendly and beginners will be offered 
enough information to guide them how to start working on 
CAD modeling and 3D printing. We have M3D micro 3D 
printer for the winner teams in advanced division and 3 
Doodler pen for the beginner winners! The second and third 
place participants will get Amazon gift cards and two teams 
who make the best use of autodesk will get quadcopter 
cameras for their prizes!
10am
UCSD TRACK & FIELD - CALIFORNIA COLLEGIATE INVITATIONAL 
- TRITON TRACK & FIELD STADIUM
Watch as UC San Diego Track & Field hosts the California 
Collegiate Invitational.
2pm
UCSD BASEBALL VS. STANISLAUS STATE- TRITON BALLPARK
Watch as UC San Diego Baseball takes on Stanislaus State.
8pm
ARTPOWER PRESENTS JOSE JAMES- THE LOFT, PC EAST
Singer-songwriter Jose James has always been on the 
quest for new musical horizons; constantly evolving and 
blurring the lines between genres in the process. His latest 
project, "Yesterday I Had The Blues: The Music of Billie 
Holiday," is a tribute to the legendary singer's centenary. 
Tickets: $18 General Admission; $28 Reserved Seating; $12 
UCSD Student2pm
UCSD WOMEN'S TENNIS VS. NEVADA- NORTHVIEW TENNIS 
COURTS
Watch as UC San Diego Women's Tennis takes on Nevada.
5pm
MATSURI- LIBRARY WALK
Matsuri is a Japanese festival, for the purpose of letting 
people in this community to have better understanding of 
Japanese culture. Through this event, we hope people could 
experience the culture in a relaxing and fun way.
7pm
ARTPOWER PRESENTS MAN FOR A DAY- THE LOFT, PC EAST
Gender activist Diane Torr's worldwide appearances and 
workshops are legendary. For the past 30 years, the focus of 
this performance artist's work has been an exploration of the 
theoretical, artistic, and practical aspects of gender identity. 
Katarina Peters' documentary, which premiered at the Berlin 
Film Festival in 2012, observes a Diane Torr workshop in 
Berlin in which a group of open-minded women came 
together to discover the secrets of masculinity. What really 
makes a man a man and a woman a woman? Tickets: 
Regular: $34 Food + Movie; $10 Movie11:30am
FITFEST - MAIN GYM AND RIMAC
FREE FitLife classes, chair massage, 'Ask the Trainer', food 
demos & samples, body composition testing and chances to 
win prizes!  Check out our Facebook page for a full list of 
FREE classes!
March 30 at Main Gym • March 31 at RIMAC
5pm
GLOBAL FORUM AT INTERNATIONAL HOUSE - THE GREAT 
HALL AT I-HOUSE
The Global Forum at International House, formerly known as 
the International Affairs Group (IAG), recognizes the diversity 
in "International Affairs" and the events we host reflect this 
variety. The Global Forum is a public program run by UC San 
Diego's International House. Its mission statement is to 
heighten our understanding of global issues and increase 
our awareness of the world in which we live. The Global 
Forum is a program that plays a leading role in the 
international dimension of campus life through speaker 
series, seminar discussions, student panels, film 
screenings, and informal presentations.FRI4.01
12pm
INTERNATIONAL FRIDAY CAFE- INTERNATIONAL CENTER PATIO
The Friday Cafe provides a venue where international and 
domestic students, scholars, faculty, staff and the local 
community can come together to celebrate cultural diversity 
and international education. Each week the Friday Cafe 
presents the opportunity to explore world cultures, cuisines, 
music and more. Join us for this unique international 
experience!
Price: $5 per plate
1pm
UCSD MEN'S TENNIS VS. AZUSA PACIFICA - NORTHVIEW TENNIS 
COURTS
Watch as UC San Diego Men's Tennis takes on Azusa Pacifica.
2pm
UCSD MEN'S TENNIS VS. AZUSA PACIFICA - NORTHVIEW TENNIS 
COURTS
Watch as UC San Diego Men's Tennis takes on Azusa Pacifica.
5pm
MAKEATHON 2016- THE FORUM, PC EAST, 4TH FLOOR
MakeAThon is a 36-hour CAD design and 3D printing 
competition. In this competition, participants will work in teams 
to design, model and print out their products. The competition 
has two divisions for advanced and beginner levels. It is 
beginner-friendly and beginners will be offered enough 
information to guide them how to start working on CAD 
modeling and 3D printing. We have M3D micro 3D printer for 
the winner teams in advanced division and 3 Doodler pen for 
the beginner winners! The second and third place participants 
will get Amazon gift cards and two teams who make the best 
use of autodesk will get quadcopter cameras for their prizes!SUN 4.03
12pm
UCSD BASEBALL VS. STANISLAUS STATE- TRITON BALLPARK
Watch as UC San Diego Baseball takes on Stanislaus State.
CONSERVE
WATER
PLEASE
FOR MORE INFO, CONTACT AVPENVIRONMENTAL@UCSD.EDUSUSTAINABILITY  WORKSHOP
AND SUCCULENT GIVEAWAY
AT PC PLAZAWELCOME BACK
WEDNESDAYMAR 30
11AM - 2 PM10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 28, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDS$
Gua rdian Classi fieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedscrossword
Across
 1 Tessie or Milo
 6 Tidal flows
 10 Sphere starter?
 14 Tunes up for a bout
 15 Corduroy rib
 16 Horse shade
 17 Accordion
 19 Joule fractions
 20 __ longa, vita brevis
 21 Dunkable treat
 22 French floor
 23 Imperfection
 26 Broadway moneymaker
 28 Czech Republic region
 31 Balanced conditions
 32 1977-79 Broncos’ nickname
 35 Wall upright
 36 Moon car, briefly
 37 Sailor’s shout
 41 Crash protection space
 45 Greek letters
 49 Wise king
 50 Whiskey ingredient
 53 Contribute
 54 Beige shades
 55 Baseball’s Berra
 57 Weep
 60 Fight stoppers
 61 When push comes to shove
 64 9th month
 65 Actress Sorvino
 66 “Bellefleur” writer
 67 Unfledged bird
 68 Far-reaching
 69 City on the AdigeDown
 1 Greek peak
 2 Roman acronym
 3 Soccer mom in Munich?
 4 Afore
 5 Peer Gynt’s mother
 6 Bedside pitcher
 7 Infants
 8 Put forth flowers
 9 Male or female
 10 Singer Franklin
 11 Synagogue scrolls
 12 Actress Smith
 13 Beginnings
 18 Yikes!
 22 Book after Neh.
 24 Touch down
 25 Part of GPA
 27 Numbskull
 28 Nov. and Dec.
 29 Table scrap
 30 Rights grp.
 33 Dream sleep
 34 Pitch callers
 37 Black Sea arm
 38 Residence location
 39 Lennon’s widow
 40 Longing
 41 Pushrod pushers
 42 Mandela’s nat.
 43 Clear thinking
 44 Lilly or Wallach
 45 Pestilent fly
 46 Game on ice
 47 Satellite of Jupiter
 48 Depends on
 51 Aleppo’s land
 52 Noon and midnight, e.g.
 56 Tiny insect pest
 58 Foreboding sign
 59 Outdo
 61 905
 62 Sweltering
 63 Black gooBIKES
Opus Legato Bicycle - $300. A great tour -
ing bicycle. Solid build with accessories 
including helmet, bicycle pump, front and 
rear lights, panniers and lock. Listing ID: 
247469521 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Beach Cruiser Bikes - $175. Roommate and 
I are moving cross country and can’t take 
the bikes. Bought them in September. In 
attractive condition. Kept inside when not 
in use. One is sea foam green and one 
is grey-blue. Both with floral cup holders 
and wicker baskets. Listing ID: 245794248 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
informationMountain Bike - $350. Great bike. Has lights. 
Fast and clean. Ready for a new owner. 
Listing ID: 244614666 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
ELECTRONICS
Like New Logitech Wireless Keyboard - 
$14.99. Used very few times. Mint condi -
tion. Comes with original box and Logitech 
unify USB receiver. Listing ID: 247469595 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Playstation 3 with 5 Games  - $75. Selling my 
used Playstation. With Call of Duty World at 
War, Skate 3, UFC 3, Mafia 2 and Call of 
Duty Ghost. Comes with three controllers. 
Listing ID: 247469593 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Polaroid Camera - $70. Selling my Polaroid 
camera. Been used three times. Does not 
come with batteries or film. Listing ID: 
247469590 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
FURNITURE
Hydraulic Bar Stool Set - $80. Matching pair 
of air actuated bar stools in exceptional 
condition. Listing ID: 247469632 at ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tion
Black Cabinet - $295. Black cabinet with 
glass doors. Perfect for television. Like new. 
Listing ID: 247469629 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more informationBrown Leather Recliner - $150. Exceptional 
condition. Real leather. Very comfortable. 
You pick up. Listing ID: 247469616 at ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
tyour vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
Poster Printing 
Color CopIES
Print PDF Files
 
CAL COPY  Course Reader Printing 
Post O ffice • USPS • FedEx  
DHL International  
858-452-9949
www.calcopy.com(across RockBottom)SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 28, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
choice. The third run emerged when Sanders hit an RBI 
single to bring home Lewis.
Despite this early, strong game, the Pioneers were able 
to tie up the match at 3–3 by the end of the fifth inning. 
It wasn’t until the end of the seventh and final inning 
that the Tritons made the decisive play that would give 
them the victory for the night. Lewis was able to do it 
again as she hit another walk-o ff suicide bunt, sacri ficing 
herself so that Maday could come home safely from the 
third plate. Maday not only scored two runs that game 
but she also managed to steal three of the six stolen bases 
for the Tritons, making a league-leading total of 73. 
“[The wins] were big for us, ” Maday told the UCSD 
Athletics Department. “We have been struggling a 
little bit but today we played really gritty and just did 
whatever we could to pull out these wins. ”
On Saturday, the Tritons failed to meet and enjoy 
the same success that they experienced in the first two 
games. Instead, they were handed losses in the third and 
fourth games, ending at a lowly 1–0 and at a whopping 
13–1, respectively. A fter losing Saturday’s doubleheader, 
UCSD dropped to 20–12 overall rating and 14–10 in 
conference ranking. 
Game Three
In the third game of the weekend, Pioneers pitcher Sierra Clark was merciless to the Tritons, pitching the 
entire seven innings with eight strikeouts and only 
allowing two hits and one walk to come as a result of 
all efforts from the Tritons. The first six innings actually 
went scoreless with neither side giving up any points. 
At the top of the seventh, however, the Pioneers were 
able to hit an RBI that brought in one of their own. The 
Tritons couldn’t answer during their batting and they 
ended up losing the game as a result. 
Game Four
The fourth game did nothing to improve the Tritons’ 
performance, which got worse. Although the Tritons 
were able to actually score this game, they sadly ended 
up giving a season-high 13 runs to the Pioneers, marking 
this as one of their worst losses of the season. 
The Pioneers scored two runs in the second inning, 
two in the fifth inning and one more in the sixth inning. 
Things got a little out of hand when the seventh inning 
came around, as they were allowed to score eight runs 
in the final inning. The Tritons on the other hand, were 
only able to score one run during the entire game at the 
bottom of the seventh, thanks to a bunt from George 
which brought in sophomore in fielder Kendall Baker. 
Following this weekend’s even split of wins and 
losses, the Tritons will next compete in the three-day 
Tournament of Champions hosted by Stanislaus State 
from Friday, April 1st to Sunday, April 3rd.
What makes a man a man and a woman a woman?
DIANE TORR  IN
MAN
for a 
DAY
A FILM BY
KATARINA PETERS
Thursday, March 31
7 pm Food / 8 pm Movie
The Loft at UCSD
Tickets: $10–34;
Free movie for UCSD Students
artpower.ucsd.edu  | 858.534.TIXS (8497)
artpower.ucsd.edu   
858.534.TIXS (8497)JOSÉ JAMES
Singer-songwriter José James performs from his latest 
project, Yesterday I Had The Blues: The Music of Billie 
Holiday , a tribute to the legendary singer’s centenary; 
and previews his new album Love in a Time of Madness .
Saturday, April 2, at 8 pm at The Loft
Tickets: $18 General Admission; $12 UCSD Students
15% OFF
of any purchase
Applicable March 31 to April 8
Date restrictions apply.*
*Dates & Times:
Mon. to Fri. 10:30am - 10pm
Sat. to Sun. 12pm - 5pm
Located at the Student Services Center
(across from the Price Center)
#OMG 
#LIKE US
#FOLLOW US
@ucsdgua rdianSoftball Team Will Compete at T ournament of  Champions    
gurkira t singh   
Photo by Megan Lee // Associate Photo Editor  ucsdguardian.orgNeed News 
on the Go?▶ SOFTBALL,  from page 12SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
MARCUS THUILLIER
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MARCH 28, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
This past weekend, UCSD hosted Cal State East Bay for a 
four-game California Collegiate Athletic Association series 
which it ended up splitting, taking down Cal State East Bay in 
both games on Friday, but then losing both games on Saturday. 
The 25th ranked UCSD won the first game on Friday with 
a solid score of 2–0 and followed up with a nail biting, walk-
off victory of 4–3 in the bottom of the seventh inning during 
the second game. With the doubleheader win on Friday, UCSD 
advanced to 20–10 overall and 14–8 in conference ranking. 
Game OneFor the first game, the Tritons were in solid control the entire 
time until they achieved their 2–0 victory over the Pioneers. 
Senior le ft-handed pitcher Lexi Edwards was able to throw a 
complete game shutout with only six hits by the Pioneers. The 
first run was achieved when senior out fielder Taylor Abeyta 
scored on teammate senior out fielder Kristin George o ff a bunt 
for a base hit and a point on the scoreboard. The second run for 
the Tritons occurred during the fifth inning when sophomore 
outfielder Kelsi Maday was brought home from third plate 
by sophomore catcher Lauren Sanders, who grounded out. 
Altogether, the Tritons were able to steal eight bases with Abeyta 
leading on three swipes. Abeyta also had two hits and one RBI, with George tallying up two hits and one run.
Game Two
An hour later, the two teams faced o ff again, and this time 
around, the competition was much more thrilling. With a final 
count of 4–3, both teams were tied up until the seventh inning. 
The Tritons put their numbers on the board by scoring one run 
in each of the first three innings. The first run was scored o ff a 
sacri fice bunt from freshman in fielder Maddy Lewis, who was 
able to bring home Maday in the first inning. Next, sophomore 
first-base Sam Glantz snuck the second run in when Pioneer 
catcher Ali Cerminara literally dropped the ball on a fielder’s SPORTS
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
SOFTBALL
Tritons Split Four Game Home Series Against Cal State East Bay
UCSD picks up two wins on Friday, the second one in walk-off fashion, but sees its offense sputter on Saturday and loses both games.
BY  G u r k i r a t  S i n g h
week  in
summar y
SOFTBALL
 0 3 1 132 4 0 1
Cal State East BayUCSD
See SOFTBALL , page 113/30
3/31
4/1
4/1
4/1M. Tennis
W.  Tennis
Softball
W. Tennis
M. TennisAT Concordia
VS Nevada
AT Tournament of Champions
VS Azusa Paci fic 
VS Azusa Paci ficUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMES
UCSD had several other top performances. Sophomore sprinter Paul 
Doan took first in the open 100 meter race with a time of 10.79. Another 
winner of the day was junior sprinter Jared Senese, who placed first in the 
400, with a time of 49.56. Graduate transfer runner Chloe Gustafson won 
her heat and finished second overall in the 1500 meter race with a time of 
4:39.61. Senior Paige Hughes narrowly missed the podium, finishing third 
of her heat and fourth overall in a time of 4:40.51. In the men’s race, junior 
Terrence Luevano finished third with a time of 3:55.09 while sophomore 
Nick Famolaro (4:00.24) and senior Tareq Alwafai (4:00.70) had top-
10 finishes, in sixth and eighth, respectively. The men’s 4x400 grabbed 
another podium finish for the Tritons, when sophomores Isaiah King, 
Brett Molster, Kenny Jones and freshman Nicholas Rack ran a 3:22.58, 
which was good for second.
Day Two
On day two of the Aztec Invitational, a couple of Tritons seized the 
day and improved on their provisional quali fiers for the NCAA. Junior 
Savanna Forry was one of them; in the high jump invitational she hit a 
mark of 5’7.25” and rose to fourth place.
Redshirt senior Ellexi Snover was the second Triton to 
improve her quali fier, as she finished in eighth place of the javelin 
invitational with a throw of 139’ . Meanwhile, senior Haley Libuit 
finished 10th with a best throw of 133’11” .
On the men’s side, redshirt senior Anthony Capitulo 
continued to build on his excellent start to the season, taking 
third with a throw of 203’5” . His throw was over the provisional 
quali fier mark, but cake for Capitulo, who had already hit 
209’6” earlier in the season. Senior Travis Vandegri ff, however, 
was just short of the cut for the provisional mark set at 191’5” 
with a throw of 190’10” , good for ninth.
In spite of some tougher competition, the Tritons still 
managed to score a few other top-10 finishes on the 
day; junior Markus Woods was sixth in the 400 
hurdles invitational with a time 
of 55.05, while, on the women’s 
team, sophomore Meghan 
Fletcher took ninth with a time 
of 1:03.91. A fter winning the 
open 100, Doan finished seventh 
in the invitational 100, running a 
10.65 and tying his personal best 
while Jones finished tenth overall 
in the invitational 400, winning 
his heat in 50.60. 
UCSD will host the California 
Collegiate Invitational, formerly known 
as the Cal-Nevada Championships, next on 
Saturday, April 2. 
Marcus Thuillier   mthuilli@ucsd.edu
Written by Marcus Thuillier 
// Sports Editor Photo by Megan Lee //
 Photo Editor UCSD competed at the Aztec Invitational at SDSU’s Sports 
Deck this past Friday and Saturday, a meet highlighted by a 
record-breaking decathlon for redshirt junior Dan Golubovic 
and a few other meet wins and improvements on provisional quali fiers.
Day One
The Tritons’ meet opened with a bang on Friday when Golubovic 
broke a 23-year-old school record en route to 7139 in his first decathlon 
of the season; the record previously belonged to Matt Inskeep who had 
7014 in 1993. This performance was an automatic quali fier for the NCAAs, 
where Golubovic also grabbed a provisional quali fier in the pole vault 
when he matched a 19-year-old school record and cleared 16’6.75” for 
926 points. He won four events on top of the pole vault alongside the shot 
put (41’11.5”), the 110 hurdles (14.97), the discus (139’9”) and the javelin 
(192’6”), and tied for first in the high jump (5’11.25”). Also to be noted, 
Golubovic’s mark in the the 
javelin was a personal best 
as well as the sixth best in 
UCSD history.Leanne 
Singleton-
Comfort finished 
third in women’s 
sabre.
Sophia 
Holmqvist 
placed 24th in 
women’s foil.
Drew Dickinson 
finished 23rd in 
men’s sabre.
David Hadler 
placed 20th in 
men’s foil.3
24
23
20