VOLUME 50, ISSUE 11   THURSDA Y , OCTOBER 27, 2016  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
SPOOKED 
STUDENTS
WITH OCTOBER 31 COMING 
AROUND THE CORNER, NO 
NEED TO LOOK TO HALLOWEEN 
TO GET YOUR ANNUAL FRIGHT. 
LITTLE REALITIES OF THE 
EVERYDAY HAVE ENOUGH 
HORRORS TO LAST A LIFETIME. 
UC   SUBCONTRACTING
WOMEN'S SOCCERLABOR  COMPENSA TION
continual  domina tion  in  ccaaOPINION, P AGE 4
sports,  P age  11
FORECAST
VERBATIM
WHAT THIS BOYCOTT  ALSO 
PROVIDED  WAS A MASTER  CLASS  
IN HOW UNIONS , WHEN  PROPERLY  
RESOURCED , CAN SUBSTANTIALLY  
IMPACT  THE LIVES OF WORKERS  
WHO OTHERWISE  LACK A VOICE  
IN THE WORKPLACE . CURRENTLY , 
ONLY 77,000 OF UC EMPLOYEES , 
OR A LITTLE  OVER A THIRD , ARE 
MEMBERS  OF THE 15 UNIONS  THAT 
THE UNIVERSITY  NEGOTIATES  WITH.”
- Guardian Editorial Board
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
CORRECTION  .................. 3
LETTER TO THE EDITOR  ..4
EAGLE HUNTRESS  ........... 8
SUDOKU  ....................... 10
MEN’S SOCCER  ............ 12Weekend,  P AGE  6
ILLUSTRATION BY IRENE LU / GUARDIAN
THURSDAY
H 70 L 63FRIDAY
H 69 L 62
SATURDAY
H 71 L 62SUNDAY     
H 68 L 59
The Interfraternity Council 
at UC Berkeley suspended social 
activities on Tuesday, Oct. 18 after 
receiving reports that two students 
were sexually assaulted at fraternity 
parties over the weekend.
The council announced the 
suspension in a statement posted 
on their Facebook page, where 
members of the Executive Board 
expressed their condemnation of 
the “vile and unjust” incidents. 
“The [Interfraternity Council] 
has voluntarily decided to suspend 
all social events until we can 
re-evaluate our risk management 
practices and care for those who 
have been affected, ” the IFC said in 
their statement read. 
One student told Berkeley 
police she was sexually assaulted by an acquaintance during a social 
event at an off-campus fraternity 
on the morning of Saturday, Oct. 
15. Another said she experienced 
“unwanted sexual conduct” on 
the night of Friday, Oct. 14 while 
attending a social event, according 
to an alert issued by the campus 
police department. 
The Berkeley Police Department 
is investigating both cases. Campus 
police issued two alerts in close 
succession on Monday evening 
announcing the sexual assault 
reports and asking for information 
regarding the attacks. 
“Our Special Victims Unit 
continues to investigate the incidents 
and there have been no arrests as of 
yet, ” Officer Byron White, the public 
information officer for the Berkeley 
Police Department, told the UCSD 
Guardian. 
Emily Collins, a Revelle College sophomore and member 
of UCSD Greek life, explained to 
the Guardian that the social events 
referred to by the Interfraternity 
Council’s statement “usually consist 
of open parties, cocktail parties, 
bid and pinning parties, as well as 
exchanges or mixers. ” 
In their statement, the 
Interfraternity Council suggests the 
perpetrators of the alleged attacks 
may not be part of Greek life at UC 
Berkeley. 
“While we have no reason to 
believe that these [alleged attacks] 
were committed by fraternity 
men on this campus, it is still 
disheartening and alarming that 
they have occurred on university 
property,” the statement said. 
“We wish to reiterate our pledge 
to eliminate sexual violence from SOVAC Hosts 
‘V oterpalooza’ 
Event to Register 
Student VotersPOLITICS
The event was held as a final 
effort to register students to 
vote before California’s deadline 
for the November 8 election.
The UCSD Student Organized 
Voter Access Committee hosted 
an all-day “Voterpalooza” event 
as a final effort to register 
students to vote, before the 
general election on California’s 
last registration day, Oct. 24.  The 
nonpartisan group also invited 
campaigns and organizations to 
attend and educate students about 
the candidates and propositions 
on the Nov. 8 ballot.
According to KPBS, SOVAC 
Executive Director Liam Barrett 
told them that as of two weeks 
ago, UCSD had registered more 
students to vote than any other 
campus in the UC system.
Barrett made it clear that every 
student should ensure they are 
correctly registered to vote. 
“All students, new and 
returning, need to make sure 
they are properly registered to 
vote because it’s important to 
register every time you change 
your address, ” Barrett said in a 
UCSD Communications press 
release. “We are trying to stress 
that students can not only have a 
voice in the presidential election, 
but they are likely to have a big 
influence on state and local races. ”
Barrett explained to the UCSD 
Guardian that it is critical that 
college students register to vote 
and ultimately cast their ballots 
because they can influence 
the outcomes of elections, 
particularly local ones. 
“Student registration and 
voting have great impact, 
especially in local elections and 
ballot measures/propositions,” 
Barrett said. “These particular 
areas oftentimes deal with issues 
that will affect students far more 
on a daily level than presidential 
politics ever could. ”
In the 2012 presidential 
election, California’s registered 
voter turnout rate was 72.36 
percent, with San Diego County 
at a higher 76.98 percent, and 
according to a report on young-
adult voting by the Census 
Bureau, 38 percent of 18- to 
24-year-olds voted.
Barrett also noted that, given 
that college students have such 
low voter turnout rates, students 
must also be informed on the 
value of their vote in addition Sixth Annual Sustainable Food 
Expo Held at Price Center
The Sixth Annual Sustainable Food Expo was 
hosted at Price Center on Monday. The event, 
which aims to gather like-minded groups 
and individuals dedicated to sustainable food and 
healthy living, included a variety of organizations 
and departments from around campus.
The theme of this year’s expo was “toward a 
greener diet” , which was reflected by the focus on 
healthy and sustainable eating habits and the timing 
of the event on Food Day, a nationwide celebration 
and a movement toward more healthy, affordable 
and sustainable food.
The activities of the expo ranged from 
presentations of academic research in agriculture, 
food security and microbial systems, to campus 
resources such as community gardens and student 
organizations, to cooking demonstrations by HDH 
and the Center for Integrative Medicine. Muir College senior Ismael Ramirez got involved 
with the expo through his role as the sustainability 
coordinator under Hugh Hagues, the assistant 
director of retail operations for University Centers.
Ramirez started learning about the importance 
of sustainable food as a freshman through student 
organizations and the community gardens. Since 
then, has become more involved in sustainable 
and healthy food issues and activism throughout 
his college career. He wanted the expo to convey 
the impact that eating has and how being more 
thoughtful about our everyday actions can have a 
large effect on the environment and people around 
us. 
“When thinking about sustainable food, we want 
to think about where it’s sourced from, how far does 
it travel, how much water it uses, who is growing 
it, who is picking it, all the people in this whole B y   Rebecca   Chong    Staff Writer  CAMPUS
UC Berkeley Fraternities Suspend Social Activities 
The Interfraternity Council made the decision in response to reports of sexual assaults at parties.See FOOD , page 3
UC SYSTEM
By  M a t t h e w  Z a m u d i o
Staff Writer
See SOVAC , page 3 See BERKELEY , page 3
BY   L a u r e n   H o l t
news editor
 Teamsters Local 2010, the UC clerical and allied services union, gathered to protest inadequate wages and benefits on Tuesday.  
Photo by Christian Duarte // UCSD Guardian
CAMPUS2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 27, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
EVERY NOW AND THEN By David Juarez
A.S. CONCERTS AND EVENTS
ENTERTAINMENT
SURVEYWe take your entertainment seriously. 
Give A.S. Concerts & Events your 
opinion on the Sun God Festival, top 
artists, genres, and events that you 
want to see this year. 
Take our Entertainment Survey to
be entered for the chance to win a
$10 Starbucks gift card.
https:/ /studentvoice.com/ucsd/asce16V
D
T
E
H
V
B
S
E
J
B
O

P
S
HYOUR
NEWS
NOW!The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. *KuWin changed the group name to Quitters’ 
Corner International.*
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Caroline Lee
Marketing Director
Peter McInnis
Training and Development Manager
Allison Kubo
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Tina Butoiu
Jacky To
Marcus Thuillier
Lauren Holt
Quinn Pieper
Nate Walker
Rosina Garcia
Oliver Kelton
Sam Velazquez
Naftali Burakovsky
Brittney Lu
Christian Duarte
Joselynn Ordaz
Aleya Zenieris
Kenji Bennett
Ayat Amin
Christina Carlson
Sophia Huang
Sage Schubert Christian
Lisa ChikEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
  
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Multimedia Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editors
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Aleya Zenieris, Quinn Pieper
Copy Reader
Alicia Ho, Agnes Song
Editorial Assistants
Alex Wu, Miguel Sheker, Tia Ikemoto, Matthew ZamudioUCSD Scientists Help Discover New Breakthrough for Zika Virus
The researchers worked with UChicago scientists to analyze the effect of viral RNA modifications on Zika’ s infection of human cells.SCITECH
Scientists at the UCSD School 
of Medicine and the University of 
Chicago have found that the Zika 
virus alters viral and human RNA 
methylation and thereby the human 
immune response, the researchers 
announced when they published 
their results in Cell Host & Microbe 
on Oct. 20. 
Gianluigi Lichinchi, co-first 
author of the paper and graduate 
student at the Sanford Burnham 
Prebys Medical Discovery Institute, 
told the UCSD Guardian that the 
experiment aimed to analyze and 
understand the role of viral RNA 
modifications, during Zika viral 
infection of human cells.  
“In this study, we specifically 
evaluated the importance of N(6)-
methyladenosine (m6A) when 
introduced on RNA, ” Lichinchi 
stated. “This modification has been 
recently studied in other systems, 
[such as in] eukaryotic cells and 
other viruses, but it was never 
reported in flaviviruses. ” 
In particular, the scientists 
analyzed methylated RNA in Zika 
virus with a novel technology called 
MeRIP-Sequencing.
In Zika-infected human cells, 
host enzymes target the viral genome 
with m6A, which reduces its stability 
and eventually blocks the Zika virus.
Lichinchi further discussed the relationship between viral RNA 
methylation and decreased Zika 
virus infection. 
“We first found that m6A was 
introduced on the viral genome, 
and only later -when we went over 
the mechanism - we understood its 
huge impact, ” Lichinchi said. “We 
understood that when we removed 
the modification on the viral RNA 
and noticed an increase in infectivity 
of the virus. So, what happens is 
that m6A serves as a sort of tag 
which leads to degradation of the 
viral genome. This is very new 
regulatory mechanism for Zika virus 
replication. ” 
Although clear symptoms of 
Zika infection have been indicated, 
including fever, rash, joint pain and 
red eyes, the Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention states that 
many individuals infected with Zika 
will be asymptomatic or only show 
mild symptoms. Furthermore, the 
disease may be transmitted by infected 
mosquitoes or sexual intercourse. 
The Zika outbreak and the 
critical need for improved treatment 
of the disease prompted Lichinchi 
and his research team to develop 
this project. According to Lichinchi, 
the research team was not originally 
focused on the Zika virus. 
“The origin of this project came 
up by the very actual concern of these 
pandemic events that are happening 
nowadays, and so we decided to focus 
our efforts towards this new pathogen, ” Lichinchi told the Guardian. “The 
biggest implication is the discovery of 
a novel regulatory mechanism during 
Zika replication — and potentially, 
the ability to selectively exploit it in 
order to control the disease. But this 
is something that will need further 
experiments. ”
Katherine Nguyen, a sophomore 
at Revelle College, expressed her 
enthusiasm for the new discoveries, 
especially in regard to the impact 
such information can have on other 
diseases and fields. 
“From these new findings, I’m 
really excited to see not only new 
treatments for the Zika virus, but 
also for new advancements in the 
study of other diseases, ” Nguyen 
said. “The amazing part of research 
is that one specific study could 
provide insight for others, so I’m 
really eager to see the application of 
the findings to help further develop 
other fields. ” 
Mary Devereaux, assistant 
director of the UCSD Research Ethics 
Program, informed the Guardian 
that public health education and 
preventative measures need to 
increase, not only in terms of the 
Zika virus, but also in the case of 
other mosquito-borne diseases. 
“Zika makes the headlines, but 
we also need public health education 
about mosquito-borne illnesses in 
general, including dengue and West 
Nile among others, ” Devereaux told 
the Guardian. “Managing Zika, like responding to other infectious 
diseases that impact public health, 
involves a range of trade-offs. 
Some mosquito control measures, 
like removing standing water, are 
easy. Others involve some level of 
pesticide exposure or zealous use 
of protection from mosquito bites, 
particularly for pregnant women. 
The most controversial measures 
involve experimental efforts to 
control the mosquito population 
itself, through genetic modifications 
or sterilization. ”
Moving forward, Linchinchi 
described the research team’s 
overarching objective as 
comprehending more biological 
processes and relations among 
the myriad of diseases in order 
to eventually create improved 
treatment, and most of all, a cure. 
“The ultimate goal is to 
discover novel biological processes 
which regulate the progression of 
infectious pathogens through the 
discovery of new mechanisms and 
processes and biological events, ” 
Linchinchi said. “We are trying 
basically to find an alternative 
way, compared to the usual way, 
to drug or target a pathogen by 
understanding other aspects of its 
replication biology, and in turn, 
potentially finding new targets. ”BY  J u l i e  Y i p
Senior Staff Writer
Julie  Yip   jlyip@ucsd.edu
our community and reaffirm our 
commitment to our members and 
students of Berkeley to provide a 
safe environment for all. ” 
When asked to name the 
fraternities involved, White told the 
Guardian, “ As the victims may know 
their attacker in some of the cases, 
we are not releasing the names 
of specific fraternities/sororities 
as it may jeopardize the ongoing 
investigations. ”
In the closing paragraph of 
its statement, the Interfraternity 
Council recognized the 
“immense courage it took for the 
survivors to report these crimes, ”                                        
and pledged to do “everything in 
our power to respect their privacy 
and their wishes. ” With sexual assault often going 
unreported, a wave of activism 
aimed at refining the definition 
of consent has swept universities 
across the country and may be 
encouraging more victims to submit 
police reports. UC Berkeley’s 
annual crime statistics show that 
UC Berkeley received 45 reports of 
rape and other sex offenses in 2015, 
compared to 23 in 2012. 
As for UCSD, the trend is 
similar, with the number of reported 
sex offenses increasing since 2012: 
UCSD’s annual crime report shows 
that UCSD received 17 reports of 
rape and other sex offenses in 2015, 
compared to 12 in 2012.NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 27, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
to being registered in order to 
motivate them to go to the polls.
“The most important and 
effective way of encouraging 
students to participate in elections 
is to educate them on how exactly 
elections and government affect 
them directly, and that their vote 
really does count, ” Barrett stated. 
“Once students are informed of 
issues and how competitive many 
of the districts around UCSD are, 
they are often far more inclined 
to take part in their civic duties. ”
According to UCSD political 
science department chair Thad 
Kousser, young voters’ absence at the voting booths will have a 
noticeable effect on the election. 
“Young voters have a huge 
impact on this election if they 
don’t show up at the polls, ” Kousser 
told UCSD Communications. 
“We are not seeing the same kind 
of enthusiasm that we had with 
both of President Barack Obama’s 
presidential campaigns, but the 
future that young voters will 
inherit is just as at stake as it was 
during those previous elections. ”
Despite the fact that 
the California deadline for 
voter registration passed,                               
SOVAC will still be hosting events 
in an effort to garner enthusiasm 
about the election and inspire voter education.
“SOVAC will be working with 
the UC Student Association, as 
well as student orgs and UCSD 
staff and admin, to encourage 
students to get out and vote 
through calling campaigns, 
events [like] our debate between 
the college Democrats and 
Republicans on Nov. 4 at 6 p.m., 
and social media efforts, ” Barrett 
told the Guardian. 
To register to vote for future 
elections, students can visit 
multiple websites, including 
registertovote.ca.gov. chain,” Ramirez told the UCSD 
Guardian. “When you’re eating a 
piece of food, it’s not just you but 
it’s everybody involved in the whole 
process. It has a really big impact, 
and even small changes can make a 
really big positive change. ”
One of the participating 
booths at the expo was the Food 
Recovery Network at UCSD. 
It is a community service-based 
student organization centered on 
sustainability and social justice that 
works to recover food that would 
otherwise be considered trash 
and go into landfills from various 
on-campus food vendors such 
as the weekly Farmer’s Markets, 
various dining halls and soon, the 
Faculty Club. 
FRN’s Public Affairs Officer Natalia Herret emphasized the 
importance of having these kinds of 
expos, not only for the organization 
but for the general education of the 
public. 
“We believe it’s important to be 
a part of the conversation towards 
a more sustainable relationship 
with food, and a healthier attitude 
towards issues like food insecurity, ” 
Herret said. “Everyone should be 
able to eat in a world where there is 
more than enough food to feed all 
people. We throw a lot of food away 
and it’s wrong. We think it’s socially 
irresponsible and ecologically 
dangerous to live this way as well; 
climate change is very real. It’s 
important for our university to hold 
a space for this type of conversation 
and we also hope to network with 
others who are likeminded. ”
She also linked the conversation to the larger picture of why events 
like the expo are important to not 
only to start the conversation, but 
start a shift in our mindset about 
food consumption. 
“We need a revolution in our 
relationship with the earth and with 
food, ” Herret told the Guardian. 
“Food is a precious resource and we 
waste too much of it. 
Organizations like [FRN@
UCSD] make a huge difference. We 
have recovered over 2,000 pounds 
of food so far from February until 
now. In short, over 9 months we’ve 
been able to do this and we are 
seeing a demand for our work. 
Sustainability issues are going to be 
some of the most important issues 
of our generation. ” ▶ FOOD,  from page 1
▶ SOVAC,  from page 1Student Organizations Attended to Educate Students on Sustainability 
Barrett: Informed Students Are More Likely to Perform Civic DutiesRebecca  Chong   rcchong@ucsd.edu
Lauren  Hol t   lcholt@ucsd.edu▶ BERKELEY ,  from page 1UC Berkeley and UC San Diego Both Saw 
Reported Assaults Increase in 2015
Ma tthew  Zamudio   m1zamudi@ucsd.edu
CORRECTION:   
In the October 20th issue of the UCSD Guardian, the editorial board 
stated that the part of the A.S. Council Budget was allocated to 
paying University Centers Employees. This is factually incorrect. A.S. 
Council does pay the salaries of career employees but none of the 
paid employees are University Center employees. 
Additionally, we stated that A.S. Council allocates 
part of its budget to “personal expenses” 
without indicating what “personal expenses” 
referred. Part of the A.S. Council Budget is  
allocated to A.S. Council 
retreats and travel 
expenses; this is what the 
editorial board referred 
to when they referred to 
“personal expenses.”
Friday , OCT. 288–11pm • THE LOFT4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 27, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
QUINN PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
The University of California 
has a rich history of continually 
taking advantage of their workers. 
This cornerstone of the UC system 
has become resoundingly clear in 
recent years with incidents like 
UC Irvine Health’s recent decision 
to lay off 175 employees – around 
100 of them front-line patient care 
workers. Howard Federoff, the 
CEO of UC Irvine Health, who 
takes in a base salary of $800,000, 
held a disastrous town hall meeting 
to address the decision to lay off 
what he called “a small number of 
individual[s]” and patronizingly 
dismissed a woman who attacked 
the virtue of high-ranking 
administrator’s bloated salaries. 
In order to protect workers 
from being exploited by a system 
that doesn’t respect their labor, 
there must be a renewed effort into 
cutting down on administrative 
staff, raising the UC minimum 
wage and unionizing workers.
Fire the Firers
A survey distributed to 5,000 
workers throughout the UC 
system’s five medical centers 
this past spring revealed that 91 
percent of participants believed 
their departments were chronically 
understaffed despite the University 
of California’s administrative hiring 
sprees. For instance, UC Irvine’s 
administrative staff grew at “four 
times the rate of frontline care 
professionals between 2010 and 
2014. ” In the period between 1993 
and 2013, there was a 300 percent 
increase of senior administrative 
growth in the UC system — UCSD 
alone having expanded 216 percent 
from 208 in 1993 to 449 in 2013. 
Meanwhile, the CSU system 
had cut down on a third of its 
administrative staff within the same 
time frame.
This imbalance shows a 
misplaced emphasis on contributing 
to an already bloated administrative 
class at a time when all faculty, 
not just professors, are being 
overloaded with the stresses of 
an already too-large incoming 
freshman class. Instead of trying to 
maximize efficiency at the expense 
of employee’s time and effort, the 
UC system should cut down its 
administration to free up funds 
for hiring the professors and staff 
necessary in curtailing issues like 
over-crowded classrooms and 
fatigued resources that trail behind 
a growing UC student population. A Minimum Wage for All
A little over a year ago, on Oct. 
1, UC President Janet Napolitano 
announced a system-wide minimum 
wage increase to $13 per hour, and 
raises of $1 per hour the following 
two years. By state and national 
news outlets, the move was heralded 
as a progressive step forward. The 
University of California deemed itself 
“the first public university in the 
nation to voluntarily establish a $15 
minimum wage” and “the leader in 
the national effort to establish a fair 
minimum wage. ” 
While progressive on the surface, 
this is a ludicrous statement when 
considering the fact that very few 
across the UC campuses were affected 
by the wage hike at all. According to 
UC Office of the President Dianne 
Klein, 3,200 of its 201,000 UC 
workers — only 1.6 percent — will 
receive a raise. This is because the 
policy possess a massive caveat states 
that the new minimum wage only 
applies to UC workers who work 
more than 20 hours a week. This 
excludes all full-time students since 
they are contractually not allowed 
to work beyond this amount. While 
the University of California got a 
substantial reputation boost across the 
country, the effect of its “progressive” 
policy amounted to very little for the 
vast majority of its constituents.
We call on the university to 
establish a standard minimum wage 
for all its workers. With both tuition 
and housing prices still on the rise, 
students, namely those with low-
income backgrounds, are slowly 
being priced out of attending their 
own tax-payer-funded universities. 
Y es, the Cal Grant and the Pell Grant 
help to significantly decrease the cost 
of attending college; however, this 
is oftentimes not enough to prevent 
students from borrowing thousands 
of dollars in loans at high interest 
rates, many of which begin accruing 
while attending school. If students 
are willing to work hard on top of 
their rigorous workload, then they 
should be compensated at a fair, 
living-wage level so they can start 
repaying their debt during college 
as opposed to paying the exorbitant 
interest rates afterwards.
Unions in Unison
Back in March, UC Berkeley came 
under fire after AFSCME 3299 – the 
University of California’s largest 
union – threatened to commence a 
guest speakers’ boycott against the campus until it agreed to directly 
hire its nearly 100 subcontracted 
workers and fairly compensate them 
for their hard work. According to 
one of the union’s reports, the UC 
system as a whole contracts 45 
private companies to fill its staffing 
needs with these workers, who are 
ultimately paid as little as 53 percent 
less, with fewer benefits, than the 
workers that the UC system employs 
directly. Notable figures who agreed 
to cancel or indefinitely postpone 
their speaking arrangements at UC 
Berkeley in support of the boycott 
included California Lieutenant 
Governor Gavin Newsom and 
human rights activist Angela Davis. 
The UC Berkeley administration 
eventually agreed to the demands 
and took the rightful step of finally 
hiring these workers, who, according 
to the union’s press release, possessed 
“more than 440 years of combined 
experience working at UC Berkeley. ”
An obvious takeaway from this 
incident is that each of the eight 
other UC campuses should directly 
hire all of the subcontracted workers 
currently working for them or at least 
compensate them at the same levels 
as UC workers. While California 
Senate Bill 376 would have done 
exactly this — guarantee equal pay 
for UC subcontracted workers — it 
was vetoed by 2015 by Governor 
Jerry Brown after what AFSCME 
3299 called “a fierce, UC-led lobbying 
campaign, ” further exposing the lack 
of respect the UC administrators have 
for its workers. Fortunately, the bill 
was reintroduced, with amendments, 
this year as SB 959. Both the state 
Assembly and Senate have passed it, 
meaning it is a signature away from 
becoming law.
But beyond this crucial step, 
what this boycott also provided was 
a master class in how unions, when 
properly resourced, can substantially 
impact the lives of workers who 
otherwise lack a voice in the 
workplace. Currently, only 77,000 
of UC employees, or a little over a 
third, are members of the 15 unions 
that the university negotiates with. 
While getting workers to consolidate 
their power by joining unions is an 
uphill battle — having more money 
taken out of your paycheck is never 
an appealing proposition — it is a 
strategic step toward redistributing 
power to a working base that has 
been stepped on and left behind for 
far too long.Following UC Berkeley’s lead in hiring its ubcontracted workers, the rest of  the UC system must end the 
practice of undervaluing and undercompensating a significant portion of the university’s workforce.Marcus Thuillier 
MTHUILLI@UCSD.EDuAROUND THE GLOBE
Every election cycle, race-driven 
data becomes one of the deciding 
factors in predicting who will be the 
next president. Much has been said of 
President Obama’s talent in utilizing 
the data at his disposition to target 
potential voters, which arguably gave 
him an edge over his Republican 
opponent. This time around, both 
candidates are trying to do the same, 
with Trump trying to get the votes of 
“the” African Americans and Clinton 
reaching out to everyone who is not 
an uneducated white male. The only 
reason why those analyses are possible 
is because in the United States, 
surveys collect data on race. While 
useful, this tactic teaches kids at the 
youngest age to identify as a member 
of a category, of a race, which seems 
awfully counterproductive to building 
an inclusive society.
After setting foot in America for 
the start of 10th grade, I was greeted 
by a list of boxes to check in the PSAT 
“race” question. For the first time 
in my life, I had to check a box that 
categorized me as a white/caucasian 
candidate to a standardized test. Of 
course, there is still the option of 
checking “other, ” like 6.4 percent of 
all respondents did on the 2010 U.S. 
census, or even sometimes “wish to 
not respond. ” But what message does 
it tell a seven- or eight-year-old kid, 
that he is an other? Maybe making the 
question optional would help along 
the way. The Census Bureau pledged 
to add more races and denominations 
to the 2020 census in order to reduce 
the percentage of respondents 
choosing “other, ” but it is appalling 
that a country so proud of its cultural 
heritage doesn’t even wait until 
teenagehood to put people in boxes. 
In France, the collecting of racial 
data on surveys and census is illegal. 
The only way to collect that kind of 
information is to conduct studies, not 
surveys. The Representative Council 
of Black Associations commissioned 
one a few years ago: It estimated 
that three percent of the French 
population was black. The sample 
was only 13,000 people, which does 
not make it nearly as accurate as the 
Census Bureau is in the U.S. Some 
in France are pushing to make that 
kind of data available, but the New 
Y orker points out that “France, with 
its revolutionary, republican spirit 
of ‘egalité, ’ likes to think of itself as 
a color-blind society, steadfastly 
refusing, for example, to measure race, 
ethnicity or religion in its censuses. ”
This approach is not without 
problems. The lack of data makes it 
difficult to address socioeconomic 
issues like police brutality or 
diversity in the workplace efficiently, 
and France is subject to problems 
of discrimination and racial 
fragmentation, as in the U.S. By 
not gathering racial data, France 
is choosing to hold a blind eye to 
these problem and makes the path to 
finding a solution a more difficult one.
It is difficult to find the perfect 
balance between no data and 
too much data. No racial data 
means omitting a way to address 
socioeconomic issues; too much data 
means teaching kids at a young age 
to only exist in categories. Ultimately, 
although the way the U.S. collects 
its data can seem demeaning to 
some — specifically, when their 
race is not represented and when 
they have to check a box to indicate 
an identity that does not accurately 
describe them — collecting this kind 
of data is a necessary evil in order to 
fight discrimination and racial and 
socioeconomic inequality.The Power of  
Racial Data
Doing  What ’s Right  
foR WoRkeRsDear Editor,
The strong support among 
young people for Bernie Sanders 
in the Democratic Party primaries 
showed the ongoing movement to 
the left in the political attitudes 
of large numbers of American 
students and youth. They 
supported Sanders believing him 
to be a socialist. The notion that 
socialism could be advanced 
within the structure of the 
Democratic Party was always 
false and Sanders disappointed 
the hopes he aroused by going on 
to prop up the campaign of the 
establishment capitalist politician 
Hillary Clinton. It would be a 
great shame if Sanders’ betrayal is 
allowed to undermine the growing 
political consciousness of young 
people and of the working class 
more generally in America. Instead, 
it should be an experience which 
we can assess and from which we 
can learn. The appeal of socialism 
to vast numbers of youth and 
workers in America today is real. I 
would encourage members of the 
UCSD community whose curiosity 
and interest in socialism has been 
aroused not only by the Sanders 
campaign, but by the increasingly 
obvious inability of capitalism to 
provide for human needs, and by 
the horrific never-ending wars into 
which US imperialism has plunged 
the planet over the last 25 years, 
to attend an event to be held on 
campus. Jerry White, the Socialist 
Equality Party candidate for U.S. 
president, will speak on the issues 
facing workers and youth in the 
2016 elections and beyond. The 
event begins at 5pm on Oct. 27th in 
the Earl Warren College Room in 
Price Center West. All are welcome 
to attend this discussion.
Tina Butoiu
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Marcus Thuillier
MANAGING EDITOR
Jacky To
MANAGING EDITOR  
Quinn Pieper
OPINION EDITOR
Lauren Holt
ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITOR
Oliver Kelton
FEATURES EDITOR
Sam Velasquez
ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT 
EDITOR
Nathan Walker
OPINION EDITORIAL 
ASSISTANTEDITORIAL  BOARD
The UCSD Guardian is published twice a week at the 
University of California at San Diego. Contents © 
2015. Views expressed herein represent the majority 
vote of the editorial board and are not necessarily those 
of the UC Board of Regents, the ASUCSD or the 
members of the Guardian staff. LETTER TO THE EDITOR
CHARLES THORPE // 
PROFESSOR, DEPARTMENT 
OF SOCIOLOGYOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 27, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
LIKE US ON
 FACEBOOK
facebook.com/ucsdguardianIt is much to my dismay to 
note that the op-ed from Oct. 20 
titled “With Transparency, A.S. 
Council Makes Sound Decision in 
Yearly Budget” contains incorrect 
and inaccurate information that 
warrants your attention. Both 
A.S. and the Guardian have 
unique roles in improving the 
experience of the student body, 
A.S. by improving services and 
advocating for a better campus, 
and the Guardian by keeping 
students informed and holding 
campus leaders accountable. 
Therefore, the significance of 
conveying clear information on 
both our ends is essential.
Starting with the op-ed, note 
that the pie chart includes a 
substantial error which completely 
skews the fiscal picture. The chart 
shows an allocation to the Office 
of Campus Affairs amounting to 
$1,128,098.86, as well as a separate 
allocation of $1,047,200.00 to A.S. 
Concerts and Events (ASCE). This 
is a misstatement. The allocation 
to the Office of Campus Affairs 
already includes Concerts and 
Events. ASCE is not a separate 
spending category, but a subset 
of Campus Affairs. The Office of 
Campus affairs is an executive 
office which includes ASCE and 
numerous other offices including 
Environmental Justice Affairs, Spirit and Athletics, and Health and 
Wellness.
This error can be noticed 
when adding up each of the 
allocations pictured on the pie 
chart, they sum to $6,332,183.05. 
Clearly, this cannot be correct. 
Revenue in this year’s A.S. budget, 
a combination of activity fee 
income and other income, only 
totals to $5,285,472.86. Given 
that the Guardian reported a 
surplus of $6,400, something is off 
in these published calculations. 
Double-counting ASCE certainly 
contributes to this error.
On a separate note, A.S. does 
not fund University Centers 
employees as the op-ed misstates. 
A.S. allocates salaries for A.S. 
Administration, the Student Life 
Business Office, and the University 
Events Office. University Centers 
is a separate department within the 
Student Life cluster with its own 
employee roster. The editorial’s 
reference to University Centers 
implies that A.S. covers salaries 
for employees who do not provide 
dedicated service to A.S. To the 
contrary, A.S. and its auxiliaries 
only fund career employees that 
provide direct service necessary for 
A.S. operations. Examples include 
A.S. advisors, fund managers and 
specialists, and events managers. 
No line item in the budget even 
references University Centers.
On the revenue side, keep 
in mind that while the Student 
Activity Fee does account for 
$5,171,256 in revenues, the total 
income for A.S. this year also 
includes $114,216.86 in additional 
income from the Graphic Studio, Student Sustainability Collective, 
and prior year A.S. carryforward. 
All allocations in this year’s budget 
are subtracted from the total 
combined amount of activity fee 
income and other income. The 
opinion piece does not correctly 
state this important fact.
Lastly, I’m struggling to 
understand what “personal 
expenses” entails? The fact that 
this phrase is placed in quotations 
suggests that the writers of this 
article were not sure either. I’m 
worried that such a generalization 
is a slippery slope and does not 
provide an accurate depiction 
to students. For example, does 
“personal expenses” refer to 
office operating costs, stipends, 
or something else? On a more 
malicious end, does this suggest 
that student fees are paying for 
items and services that are not fully 
owned by A.S. and used for A.S. 
purposes? There is no line item for 
“personal expenses” anywhere in the 
entire document.
I’m quite surprised no one 
from the Guardian clarified these 
metrics with the budget’s author 
and architect before publishing 
either of these two pieces. We 
trust the Guardian holds A.S. 
accountable, but A.S. must now 
hold the Guardian accountable for 
presenting accurate, fact-checked 
information. In these cases, the 
Guardian failed to do so. I’ d be 
happy to help clarify any of the 
points above, or others, so that the 
UCSD student body receives an 
accurate understanding of how their 
student government responsibly 
allocates their student fees.LETTER TO THE EDITOR
JUSTIN PENNISH // 
FINANCIAL CONTROLLER, 
ASSOCIATED STUDENTSA&E EDITOR // SAM VELAZQUEZ
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // BRITTNEY LU
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
WEEKENDBut, What Are You Really Afraid Of?
By the Lifestyle Staff
Illustration by Sam Xu // UCSD Guardian Illustration by Irene Lu // UCSD Guardian“I’m scared of the blob. That one fish 
with the face you see on Facebook all the 
time, and people are tagging each other 
in, you know? Every time it comes up on 
my feed, I either have to scroll really fast 
or push away my computer. ” 
— Chelsea Chang 
Eleanor Roosevelt College seniorHalloween is one time of the year when we openly and willingly scare ourselves. When we will stand in line for potentially hours and pay solid money to have a Jessica Lange from American Horror 
Story’ s “Coven” lookalike to bewitchingly charge toward us. But what about our everyday horrors — the things that actually keep us up at night? Read on to see what your fellow Tritons are really 
afraid of:
“Y ou know those moments when 
you’re assigned a menial task (like, 
let’s say, fix a lightbulb, and I’m 
studying electrical engineering…) 
but you don’t really understand 
what’s happening or what the precise 
instructions are, so you just smile and 
nod? Eventually, you end up trying to 
do the task because it’s too late to back 
out now, right? Here’s where my fear 
comes in: taking what is supposedly 
the most simple job, screwing up 
tremendously and having everyone 
think I’m dumb. ” *small shudder* 
— Andrew Elgar 
Sixth College senior“My biggest fear is not having coffee. No 
coffees equal no lattes, and no lattes equal no 
joy in life. ” 
— Crystal Chan 
Eleanor Roosevelt College freshman
“I’m afraid of inclines. Y ep, am I the only one 
who even counts that as a fear? Who knows, 
but while most people say they are afraid of 
heights, mine ain’t that. It’s those inclines that 
get me!” 
— Sharon Kim 
Marshall College senior
“While I know this is not the most terrifying thing for all people, I’m 
actually kind of afraid of the dark; self-admittedly, there’s a night light in 
my room back home. ” 
— Brandon Lee 
Warren College fifth yearLifestyle Disclaimer: Let’s be honest, all of us are afraid of the dark, okay? So the 
real hero here is the one to come out and admit it for the sake of the rest of us. “Even though we live in San Diego and a 
good ten minutes away from the beach, I have 
this fear of being submerged underwater. Even 
taking a bath would freak me out a little bit 
when I was younger (Lush bath bombs have 
helped quell that a bit.) On top of that, anything 
that shakes kind of terrifies me. So any time 
there’s an earthquake or airplane turbulence, 
it’s an uphill battle from there. During a pretty 
rough flight this one time, the lady sitting next 
to me and I started praying the Rosary together; 
it was quite the bonding experience. ” 
— Maria Manalang 
Warren College junior
“I’m so afraid one of these days I’m going to forget to lock the 
bathroom door and get walked in on. ”  
— Natalyn Pow
Eleanor Roosevelt College sophomore“Okay, I know this isn’t something people think 
about all the time, but I am actually quite afraid 
of octopi. Do people realize how smart they 
are? For example, there’s this dish that serves a 
live, writhing octopus, and there is a very strong 
possibility you could die, because the tentacles 
can latch onto the inside of the throat and 
internally strangle you. So even when they’re 
being consumed by humans, they still have the 
capacity to overcome us all … but besides that, 
open closet doors kind of scare me too. ” 
— Michelle Viado
 Warren College junior
“Is it just me or are the 
crow-raven hybrid beasts 
surrounding Marshall Field 
at ungodly hours of the 
morning terrifying to anyone 
else? I once had an opening 
shift to work at Goody’s 
at 7 a.m., and made eye 
contact with one of those 
monstrosities as I was about 
to cross Marshall Bridge. So 
as any rational human being 
would do, I turned around 
(because I’m almost positive 
that thing could sense my 
fear) and climbed the hill 
underneath the bridge to get 
to work on time. Y ou don’t 
want to mess around with 
one of those things … ” 
— Brittney Lu
Marshall College junior“I’m afraid of spiders because they just 
have this look that makes me feel really, 
really, really uncomfortable. ” 
— David Huang 
Eleanor Roosevelt College juniorIllustration by April Gau// UCSD GuardianWEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 27, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
C3 IoT is Hiring the Brightest Minds in
DATA SCIENCE
C3 IoT is meeting a fast-growing demand for machine-learning IoT applications that enable 
organizations in data-intensive industries to use real-time performance monitoring and 
predictive analytics to optimize business processes, differentiate products and services, and 
create new revenue streams. C3 IoT is a comprehensive Platform as a Service (PaaS) for the 
rapid design, development, deployment, and operation of next-generation IoT applications.     
www.c3iot.comAre you ready to:
Discover, develop, and implement the next generation of big data analytics
Tackle huge data sets employing the latest technologies for industrial-scale projects and 
global customers
Enable enterprise customers to embrace data-driven predictions and decision making
Work with an internationally-recognized team of IT, software, and data science experts
Join a high-growth enterprise software company in the heart of Silicon Valley
Make an impact and have fun doing what you love, while building your ideal career“C3 IoT has developed some of the most sophisticated applications
of machine learning and forecasting techniques for today’s 
modern enterprise systems.
            — S. Shankar Sastry,  Dean, College of Engineering, University of California, Berkeley
”
APPLY TODAY:
View position details
and submit resume:
c3iot.com/careers
Horrors of the EverydayBy the Lifestyle Staff
Illustration by Michi Sora // UCSD GuardianIllustration by Alex Lee // UCSD GuardianCreepy Peeves:
tY our favorite band’s long-awaited album turning out to sound 
mediocre
tForgetting to substitute soy for whole milk, and then preparing 
yourself for a gaseous rest of the day, thanks to your acute lactose 
intolerance
tA lack of response to your post on Free and For Sale, causing you to 
patiently sit and wait in debt
tRorschach-test-patterned sweat stains, due to cross-campus treks to 
class and intense backpack insulation
tThe post-rain sock squelch and, eventually, toe-pruning for the rest 
of your day in class
tUnreasonable pricing of seasonal sugar water with meager caffeine 
content
tSunday night bus rides, during which every new rider is hauling their 
weight in groceries Welcome to 2016 — where seeing actual apparitions is nowhere close to being as scary as 
getting ghosted. Forget about murderous clowns or grotesque, rubbery politician masks; let’ s 
talk about things that are actually haunting. Here’ s a list of horrors to get you in the spooky 
Halloween spirit: 
Perfectly Ghastly:
tParents scrolling to the left
tAnnual financial crisis that is the 
month of September, during which it is 
everyone and their mother’s birthday 
tA sub-in for your usual threading lady
tPhone charger wires, visibly peeking 
through the cord rubber, that require 
the exact bending at an angle of 56 
degrees to work (sometimes)
tJeans that mandate a little more 
pushing and shoving to squeeze into 
than the previous week 
tThe two seconds of airtime you get 
right after your board gets caught on 
a sudden crack in the pavement, right 
before scoring some gory knees and 
elbows 
tThe phone drop and those nail-biting 
moments prior to the ensuing screen 
reveal
tThe moment after “I just liked your 
Instagram photo from 105 weeks ago”Haunted House:
tThe impressive collection of silverware that has accumulated in the sink of 
a fifteen-girl suite bathroom (thanks Chipotle)
t… or the impressive beast that sits clogged in the shower drain of a fifteen-
girl suite bathroom
tShowerhead water pressure that operates at two extremes: dribbling or 
painful 
tThe mountain of laundry that sleeps on the corner of your roommate’s bed 
(did that underwear just move?)
tLife-size Jenga, in the form of towering trash cans and toppling recycle 
bins
tThose pesky fruit flies who feast off your produce (get your own damn 
bananas!)School Scares:
t“Whose phone is this?” during a midterm exam
tY our friend’s rager last night — captured all in ten-second 
fragments — accidentally playing out loud during a podcasted 
lecture
t“Did you remember to submit on turnitin.com?”
tPoop stalemates in the ladies’ bathroom, where it is more silent 
than the eighth floor of Geisel Library
t“This final is cumulative and will not be curved. Scantrons are 
not provided. ” 
tThe multiple empty toilet paper rolls (they were practically 
skin-thin anyway)
t“FULL BUS — Please board next bus, ” at 7:55 a.m.
tTerrified eye contact with the longboarder speeding towards 
you at 85 mph down Snake Path
tNot sure if it’s actually President Obama giving a speech into 
the night, or if it’s just that tree again...
8     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 27, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  WEEKEND
A documentary is a perilous 
undertaking, in no small part 
due to an integral stipulation: 
that it ought to, in some part, convey 
events from our world. Films have 
become, by and large, journeys into 
the realm of fiction and fantasy, 
constructions of directorial conceits 
and desires. The documentary is 
antithetical to this line of reasoning, 
and thus is more prone to criticism. 
Our eyes seek out inconsistencies 
— and, just as a poorly-integrated 
piece of CGI may disturb a viewer, so too might an ineptly told story. 
Otto Bell’s “Eagle Huntress” is split 
between naturalism and biography, 
but only the former is handled with 
any competence.
The tale is simple: 13-year-old 
Aisholpan Nurgaiv wishes to become 
an eagle huntress, as alluded to by the 
title, and encounters opposition in her 
community. There are only hunters, 
and hunters are only men. She is, 
the film claims, the first and only 
eagle huntress in all of Mongolia. The 
veracity of her claim is challenged by the local leadership (briefly featured 
in unflattering, carefully edited 
interviews). In a series of voiceovers, 
her father expresses his thoughts on 
the matter, supporting Aisholpan’s 
desires in a wholehearted and proud 
manner.
And herein lies the dilemma: The 
audience is made implicitly aware 
of the film’s contrived construction. 
There is no seasonal progression, 
except when the camera pans over 
various landscapes during a time-
lapse. Nor is there much given to the people the film ostensibly features; an 
important element of documentary 
is the recording of lives, of the 
everyday goings-on of the subjects. A 
director might construct a narrative, 
certainly, but the natural patterns of 
the participants must be established 
and shot. Here, it is as though Otto 
Bell came to the Altai mountains with 
a preordained purpose and ideal story 
in mind, and imposed it, with undue 
force, upon the inhabitants. They speak 
as though they have been carefully 
instructed on what to say — notably, Aisholpan’s siblings make nary a peep 
during family conversations.
These inconsistencies are the 
hallmarks of an inexperienced, 
or amateur, director, and Bell 
awkwardly incorporates Daisy Ridley 
(voice pleasant and soothing) as a 
narrator, dumping information on 
the audience. Bell’s intentions are 
earnest and forthright, and one can 
sense Aisholpan’s investment and love 
for her chosen profession, along with 
her parents’ anxieties and hopes. She 
occupies a unique position and is 
engaged in the tenuous intersection of 
tradition and modernity. This conflict 
is mediated through the stark fact 
that eagle hunting in Mongolia is a 
dying art. Less than 250 active hunters 
remain, and the number shrinks with 
every year.
To Bell’s benefit, the Altai 
mountains are a remarkable backdrop 
for his film, and elevate its narrative 
by their raw, over-awing beauty. He 
lavishes his camera on long, slow pans 
of the untrammeled lands. Windblown 
cliffs crash against the blinding white 
of snowfall, and the eagles that call the 
crags home are remarkable creatures, 
with striking eyes and an intense 
grace. Larger story or no, one could 
watch a thousand hours of footage 
from such a prepossessing land. 
“The Eagle Huntress” is an uneven 
piece, shortchanged by Bell’s own 
shortcomings, but it truly shines 
when simply observing. Whether it is 
Aisholpan at work, or performing with 
her eagle, or Bell is merely canvassing 
the Altai, this is a documentary better 
served by its silences than by any overt 
progression of an artificial plot. 
—   Alicia  Lepler
 Staff WriterDirector Otto Bell tracks the young Aisholpan Nurgaiv’s harrowing entry into the world of eagle hunting.
Directed by   Otto Bell
Starring  Aisholpan Nurgaiv , Daisy Ridley
Release Date   Nov. 2, 2016
Rating   GB-FILM  REVIEW
The  Eagle  Huntress
PHOTO COURTESY OF SONY PICTURES
Yo u  W a n t  i t  Da r k er
by   Leonard  cohen
Release Date Oct 21
“Y ou W ant it Darker” is a contemplative ode to a long, 
industrious life and career.ALBUM  REVIEW
He’s gotten old. He’s ready 
to walk away from the 
business of living. Leonard 
Cohen sings “Y ou Want it Darker” 
with the desperation of a dying man. 
There aren’t many years left, and 
certainly the wellspring of inspiration 
will soon run dry. It’s only the way 
of the world, after all. Leaves fall, 
seas run dry, and images of death 
populate every verse: “If the sun loses 
light,/ and we liv[e] in an endless 
night. ” Cohen engages in a one-sided 
conversation, with lyrics that read 
like mournful responses to a departed 
lover. He is often argumentative, and 
always regretful. 
“I used to play one mean guitar, ” 
he says, and Cohen infuses such a 
simple line with more bitterness and 
irony than ought to live in the human 
heart. There’s only one end to this 
journey, and that’s a grave six feet 
down. His humor is darker than his 
voice, which has made a magnificent 
transformation into a bass growl, 
courtesy of a lifelong smoking habit. 
It’s a blessing, and Leonard enunciates 
every word with the detached cool of 
a Beat poet on an endless downslide 
toward death. Plaintive violins shore 
up most of the pieces, and his classical 
guitar technique adds an element of 
formality to the long goodbye. 
To speak of Cohen and neglect 
his religious aesthetic is to look at the 
sun and neglect to mention its light. 
The two are inextricable and inform 
one another in an infinite loop: “I wish there was a treaty we could 
sign,/ It’s over now, the water and 
the wine./ We were broken then, but, 
now, we’re borderline./ And I wish 
there was a treaty, I wish there was a 
treaty,/ between your love, and mine. ” 
The tenuous poet slouches toward an 
infinite, distant God and the lyrics 
summon forth echoes of a covenant 
broken and dishonored. 
Like a particular vintage of wine, 
Cohen limits his style and expression 
to a few spare elements: his ever-
faithful folk roots, in addition to a 
dash of blues. He rarely strays from 
discussion of love, abandonment, 
sin and his faith. That’s all good, 
and 82 is not the age of innovation. 
Leonard knows this, and his work 
is more a reverie than a frantic 
attempt at expression — the despair 
of younger artists, aching to spit out 
words and spin songs. The beat is 
slow, consistent, to accommodate the 
spoken-word rhythms that permeate 
his music. 
He takes his time, and it’s like 
a slow, building farewell. Leonard 
Cohen said earlier this year that 
he would be unlikely to ever tour 
again, with his health having grown 
frail. Nonetheless, this album is a 
testament to his skill and artistry, 
and well worth a listen.
—  Alicia  Lepler
 Staff WriterAGameshow
by   two  door  cinema  club
Release Date Oct 14
Old habits don’t die hard for Two Door Cinema Club, despite entering new territory. ALBUM  REVIEW
Irish indie rock band Two Door 
Cinema Club released its debut 
album, “Tourist History, ” in 
2010, an album that immediately 
seduced indie music lovers with 
its blend of originality and subtle 
merging of dance-pop, rock and 
elements of post-punk. With 
songs like “What Y ou Know” and 
“Undercover Martyn” — fan favorites 
that incorporated Sam Halliday’s 
energetically melodic, yet skillfully 
executed guitar riffs with the clear, 
exuberant vocals of singer Alex 
Trimble — the band seemed to have 
its path laid out for it.
Their new album, “Gameshow, ” 
comes after two albums and an EP , 
and is unarguably written from 
a completely different place than 
their previous projects. From the 
first track, “ Are We Ready (Wreck), ” 
a persistent song that showcases 
a slightly robotic sounding vocal 
technique, there is already a sense 
that the band is moving towards a 
different future and embracing some 
of modern pop’s elements.
The next track, “Bad Decisions, ” 
displays some notable elements of 
the band’s change that are present 
throughout most of the album. For 
instance, Trimble’s vocal style seems 
to have found a new direction here, 
singing largely within his higher 
register and emphasizing his slightly 
more polished vocals as opposed 
to the more emotive, plaintive 
style of previous albums. Halliday’s 
guitar varies significantly, ranging from clean and almost funky to 
faux-gritty and distorted, yet rarely 
calls attention to itself as a leading 
character in the charming way it did 
on “Tourist History. ”
While the band seems bent 
on reinvention, there is an ‘80s 
revival sound to many of the songs 
on “Gameshow” that keep the 
sound from accessing altogether 
new territory. From the pulsating 
synthesizers of the song “Ordinary” 
to the punchy drum machine of 
“Lavender” and disco-esque guitar of 
“Fever, ” the album seems to evoke a 
familiar feeling, for better or for worse. 
Even the closing track, “Sucker, ” while 
feeling otherworldly and futuristic, 
can’t help but bring about some of the 
‘80s with its spacey synths that echo 
behind Trimble’s wistful vocals soaked 
in reverb.
This album works hard at giving 
a breadth of pace to its listeners and 
successfully delivers assiduously 
danceable songs along with a few 
dreamy sway-ers. “Je Viens De La, ” a 
vital track, is hard to resist as Halliday’s 
slick, relentless guitar strums behind 
Trimble’s electrifying refrain, “Show 
me the world I’m searching for and 
take me home. ” On the opposite 
end of the spectrum, the spacey and 
brooding “Gasoline” finds its place 
within the faster, catchier songs, 
calling to mind the heavy atmosphere 
of bands like Muse and U2.
It is clear that the band is evolving, 
and while the new direction may not 
have the bright-eyed, twinkly charm of its debut, the band is making an effort 
to stay relevant and dive head first into 
new territory — at least for the band. 
“Gameshow” is successful in many 
ways, from its grandiose, unrelenting 
choruses to its skillful production 
and musical experimentation. In 
future releases, however, the band will 
hopefully be able to bring some of the 
magical simplicity of its classics and 
blend it with the maturing texture of 
its new sound.  
—   Liam  bass
 Contributing Writerb+
PHOTO COURTESY OF MY UNPREDICTABLEWEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 27, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
eataburrito.comDON CARLOS
 TACO SHOP
737 Pearl Street, La Jolla
AVAILABLE ON 
$5 off your
first order, use code eats - 4ilgd
ULTRAZONE  •  www.ultrazonesandiego.com  •  #ultrazonesd
3146 Sports Arena Blvd.  •  San Diego, CA 92110
619.221.0100
PLAY THE GAME THAT 
  WILL CHANGE YOUR LIFE...
LASER TAG!
“COLLEGE NIGHT ” — Thursday — 3rd Game Free
LATE NIGHT  at the ZONE — Fri & Sat — Midnight to 2am
GROUP EVENTS — Huge Party Area to 150+ Guests
UCSD Greeks / Student Orgs:
20% OFF   your event!
Contact a Group Events Coordinator at lasertag@ultrazonesandiego.com
DO YOU TWEET? WE DO!
@UCSDGua rdianAs B e n j a m i n  S c h e u e r  w a l k s  
onto the circular stage, the 
33-year-old award-winning 
songwriter and performer wears a suit 
and tie and carries a guitar in his 
hands. By the time “The Lion” is over, 
he has played each one of the six 
guitars on stage, sung fifteen songs 
and left behind his jacket; rolled up his 
sleeves, unbuttoned his shirt; slipped 
his suspenders off his shoulders; 
removed his socks and shoes. Just as 
he sings that “clothing became armor” 
during a time when he could not 
play music, over the course of his 
performance he strips away everything 
that protects him from our judgment 
and empathy, but also everything that 
holds him back. As “The Lion” hits a 
climax, Scheuer lets go of the restraint 
he so carefully cultivated in his earlier 
songs. He uses the full strength of 
his voice for the first time and finally 
demands of himself, in the wake of 
hardship and self-discovery: “I want to 
know what makes a lion a lion. ”
“The Lion” is Scheuer’s life story, 
and his choice to tell it through song 
— with a few narrative monologues 
and catch-your-breath moments 
when he tunes a guitar or drinks 
some water — is only fitting. Music 
is Scheuer’s greatest passion in life, 
and the threads of his love for the 
guitar are woven deep throughout. 
Director Sean Daniels’ influence and 
partnership takes the show from a 
man playing music to a theatrical 
performance. Scheuer’s songs take 
us from childhood and his shaky relationship with his father through 
high-school rebellion, youthful love, 
hardship and finally to a reawakening 
of family bonds. He reflects on lifelong 
changes, his physical and emotional 
distance from his brothers and mother 
as well as his relationship with music 
and himself, but makes no claims that 
his life is any more remarkable or 
profound than anybody else’s. It helps 
that Scheuer’s lyric-writing and guitar-
playing skills are top-notch, and his 
singing is certainly good enough. The 
strength of “The Lion” is its skillful 
execution rather than the uniqueness 
of its subject matter. 
Different stages in life are 
mirrored by the changing of guitars 
between groups of songs and 
rotation around the circular stage. 
Scheuer plays a 1929 Martin O-18 
and takes the role of his father for 
the childhood “Three Little Cubs, ” 
and 120 degrees away, the electric 
Les Paul Goldtop Deluxe waits for 
teenage rock ’n’ roll complaints 
about his father in “Saint Rick. ” 
Despite separation in space and 
time, the shadow of his father still 
falls over the entire performance: a 
reminder to both Scheuer and the 
audience that some people leave 
much more complex legacies than 
any one individual can summarize. 
By “The Lion’s” conclusion, Scheuer 
has put forward a fine effort.
The symbol of the lion bookends 
the performance satisfyingly. Its 
introduction by Scheuer’s father 
singing “Three Little Cubs” to his three sons and asking them what 
they think is the defining quality 
of a lion — or “what makes a lion a 
lion” — is gentle and innocent even 
without knowing the later events of 
Scheuer’s life. On the other hand, the 
question’s reprise at the climax, as an 
end to the narrative, also breaks that 
narrative by blending a revelation 
about life with a very convenient 
moral takeaway. The dual use of the 
lion motif as both an in-universe 
realization and an in-your-face 
moral feels slightly duplicitous, but 
in the context of Scheuer’s life, it 
is understandable enough to avoid 
deeper criticism. I am willing to 
believe that this conclusion is one 
that Scheuer legitimately arrived at.
“The Lion’s” story doesn’t try 
to be unique, and its concluding 
moral is something we’ve all heard 
before. Surprisingly, these actually 
serve to make “The Lion” more 
compelling, rather than less. The 
structure of the performance, a 
one-man musical and narrative 
characterized by movement and 
subtle change, is unique enough. 
It inherently distances us from the 
events on stage. To combine it with 
an inaccessible narrative would 
disconnect the audience from the 
performance Scheuer and Daniels 
have created together: a surreal but 
devastatingly relatable coming-of-
age story.
—   Sage  Schubert   Christian  
Contributing WriterLyricist and musician Benjamin Scheuer’s autobiographical one-man performance 
“The Lion” manages to feel both surreal and genuine.
Directed by   Sean Daniels
Writer  Benjamin Scheuer
Starring  Benjamin Scheuer
Runs   September 29 - October 30
Location The Old GlobeA-The  lionPLA Y REVIEW
PHOTO BY BENJAMIN SCHEUER FOR THE OLD GLOBE10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 27, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDS
PETS
Two Creamy Persian Cats - 150.00... - $150 - 
Hello! I’m moving to an apt with the limitation of 
two pets, therefore, I have to rehome two little 
creamy kittens. One is a girl (Pic3)and the other 
is a boy(Pic 1). They are playful, intelligent, and 
friendly. The boy has two levels of hair (dark and 
light creamy) and he likes to eat. The girl is sooo 
energetic, her eyes are bright! No ve. Listing ID: 
310088197 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
Pug Puppies for sale - 950.00... - $950 - Pug 
Puppies for sale, we accept all Major credit cards 
thru PayPal if you prefer to use your credit card, 
or we can accept cash, totally up to you, below 
we have written an individual Bio of each avail -
able puppy to help you get acquainted with 
each puppy. Meeka is a beautiful Sable Silver 
Fawn, she is an absolute sweetheart, she is best 
buddies. Listing ID: 310088070 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
Teddy Bear male Houston!! - 1300.00... - $1300 
- Houston is a Chocolate & White Teddy Bear 
male.This Adorable boy has his current shots 
and vet checks and will weigh around 9-13lbs. 
Houston will follow you everywhere you go. 
He comes with a 1 Year Health Guarantee 
and you can find him in San Diego,CA. 619-
786-7362 or http://www.puppyavenue.com. Listing ID: 310087920 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
TEXTBOOKS
SDSU textbooks (PSY365, CJ300, CJ303, 
PA301, CSP420) - All are in excellent/almost 
brand new condition (look like they’ve 
never been opened pretty much). Except 
for the PA301 book. Just hit me up if you 
would like to buy, or have any other ques -
tions. Thank you. Listing ID: 306503175 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Textbook (SDSU PSY 365) (San Diego) - $60 
- Drug Use and Abuse Sdsu Custom Edition 
(Loose Leaf) by Stephen A. Maisto (Author), 
et al. IBSN 978-1-305-03954-4. Listing ID: 
306503174 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
INTERMEDIATE ALGEBRA TEXTBOOK (San 
Marcos) - $70 - INTERMEDIATE ALGEBRA 
TEXTBOOK 11TH EDITION $70.00. ISBN 
978-0-321-71541-8.  Listing ID: 306503173 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
informationFURNITURE
Fir Wood Bar Table and Stools Set - Entertain 
in style with this lovely wooden high-top 
table and stool set. Made from fir and 
pine. You’ll have the best seat in the house 
or even outside to enjoy snacks bever -
ages or a complete meal. Comes with stools 
and table. Pictures and contact details on 
Advertigo website. Listing ID: 305156995 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Coffee tables. - 50.00... - $50 - Glass top gold 
iron coffee table and matching end tables. 
Listing ID: 306914416 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Inch Mattress Topper for Full Size Bed - 
Bought this last week in Stanford Studios, 
but the size doesn’t work for me--I have 
a smaller bed than a full size. Available 
immediately for pickup on campus. Images 
and contact info on Advertigo website. 
Listing ID: 305157004 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more informationComplete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies 
on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.ukLevel: 1234
SUDOKU
CLASSIFIEDSGuardian Classifieds are FREE for the UC San Diego community.
 www.ucsdguardian.org/classifieds
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972ALL CAMPUS
COMMUTER
BOARD
enriching life
for commuters
Visit accb.ucsd.edu or on Facebook @AllCampusCommuterBoard for more information on 
commuter events and programs.
KSDT RADIO
tuning into
local creativity
Find us at the Original Student Center, listen to great stations on ksdt.org and follow us on 
Facebook @KSDTCollegeRadio.
AVP of Environmental Justice Affairs
Student Manager of the Triton Food Pantry“Educating people on the 
beneﬁts of composting 
and recycling may not 
always seem ‘sexy’ but 
it’s worth it.”
– Lesly Figueroa
Lesly is the AVP Environmental Justice Affairs. She has founded several programs under the Sustainability 
Resource Center, a student-peer educational program that promotes campus sustainability goals. For more 
information on how to get involved, visit sustain.ucsd.edu. 
SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 27, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
Cal State East Bay was no match 
for the No. 9-ranked Tritons as UCSD 
crushed the Pioneers 6–0 at Pioneer 
Stadium. The Tritons scored three 
goals in eight minutes to easily win 
their 11th match in a row. Cal State 
East Bay fell to 3–10–3 overall and 2–8 
in league games.
All six goals were scored by 
different players, with junior forward 
Katie O’Laughlin scoring her region-
best 14th goal as well as a career-high 
three assists.
UCSD’s record now sits at a perfect 
10–0 in CCAA play and a 14–2 overall. 
In their 11-game winning streak, eight 
of the victories have been shutouts. 
During this streak the offense has been 
stellar as well, as the team is outscoring 
opponents 32–1. Should the Tritons 
win their final two games, they will be 
the first team since 1998 to win all of 
their CCAA matches. 
The victory for UCSD also means 
that the team clinched a top-two seed 
in the CCAA tournament and will 
have a first-round bye. The Tritons will 
head to Turlock on Nov. 4 to defend 
their title from a year ago. 
Redshirt senior goalkeeper Itzel 
Gonzalez made one save to earn her 
12th clean sheet, which is the most in 
the league. 
Sophomore forward Mary Reilly 
started the scoring with her third goal 
of the weekend. The goal was set up 
by O’Laughlin, who passed it to Reilly; 
she promptly drilled it into the top 
right corner. It was Reilly’s ninth goal 
of the season. 
Just a few minutes later O’Laughlin 
sent a cross deep into Pioneer territory, 
and junior midfielder Elisa Martinez 
put it in the back of the net for her first 
goal of the year. 
After two early assists, O’Laughlin 
gave the Tritons a 3–0 lead in the 28th from an assist from redshirt 
sophomore forward Kiera Bocchino. 
The scoring continued in the 
half for UCSD. Senior midfielder 
Kristin Sampietro got a layup in front 
of the goal as a left-sided pass from 
sophomore midfielder Summer Bales 
enabled her third goal of the year.
After halftime O’Laughlin sent in a 
ball from the left, and junior midfielder 
Jordyn McNutt scored in the upper left 
corner to give O’Laughlin her third assist of the game. 
Freshman midfielder Roni Merrill 
added the final score in the 85th 
minute on her second-ever college 
shot.
The closest the Pioneers came 
to scoring was in the 62nd minute, 
when their senior forward Megan 
Ravenscroft shot hit the post. Cal 
State East Bay had another chance 
when a corner kick headed toward the 
goal, but junior defender Makenzie Brito was in the right spot to clear 
the ball from danger. UCSD’s goalless 
streak has passed an unfathomable 745 
minutes. 
Other impressive milestones from 
this historic UCSD season include that 
the shutout streak is the longest since 
the Tritons entered Division II in 2000. 
The team has scored two or more 
goals in 12-straight games, which is a 
record in the Division-II era. UCSD 
has outscored opponents 48–6 this year and 32–2 after halftime. It may 
be time to consider this Triton team 
to be one for the history books. It will 
depend how the Tritons finish in the 
playoffs, but we may be looking at the 
best women’s soccer team in school 
history.  UCSD Maintains Perfect CCAA Record Against Cal State East Bay
No. 9-ranked Tritons continue to dominate the CCAA, winning their 11th-straight game and claiming their 8th shutout of the season. WOMEN'S SOCCER
BY   D e v   J a i n
senior staff writer
Dev  Jain  dajain@ucsd,eduReaders Can COntact
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE /UCSD GUARDIANSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
ROSINA GARCIA
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , OCTOBER 27, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
Even away from home, the UCSD men’s soccer team dominated Cal 
State East Bay 3–0 this past Sunday, Oct. 21. With this win, UCSD 
clinched its fourth consecutive California Collegiate Athletic 
Association tournament berth, and the team remains in first place in the 
league table. This is also the Tritons’ seventh straight win, and they are now 
8–1–1 in the CCAA and 13–1–2 overall. Cal State East Bay fell to 2–6–2 in 
the CCAA and 6–8–2 overall. 
Entering the weekend, UCSD was the nation’s No. 1 defensive side 
statistically with a 0.27 team goals-against average. By the end of the road 
trip, it improved to 0.30. 
The Tritons wasted no time in showing up their competition, as they 
scored their first goal in the third minute. UCSD earned a free kick due to 
a foul, and senior midfielder Justice Duerksen threw in the ball to fellow 
senior midfielder Riley Harbour. Redshirt junior forward Malek Bashti 
received the ball from Harbour in the middle and kicked it toward the 
left side of the goal. This marked Bashti’s second goal of the season, both 
on the road, and Duerksen and Harbour’s third and first credited assists, 
respectively. 
Another goal didn’t come until the 34th minute due to a foul against 
sophomore forward Nathaniel Bloom. Senior midfielder Nick Palano took 
the free kick and launched the ball toward the left side of the goal, scoring the second goal of the game despite a trying dive by the Pioneers’ freshman 
goalkeeper Carlos Moreno.
Moreno did redeem himself a bit, though, right before the end of the 
first half. Earning his only save of the game, he saved a corner kick from 
Bloom on the right diagonal. 
The Tritons put the nail in the coffin in the 70th minute with their 
third and final goal of the game. Junior forward Uly de la Cal launched a 
free kick far down the left flank toward Harbour. Harbour then kicked it 
over Moreno’s head toward the right side of the goal, earning his fourth 
goal of the season and his first road goal of the season. This was de la Cal’s         
fifth assist. 
The Tritons outshot the Pioneers 16–1, leaving Triton redshirt senior 
goalkeeper Cameron McElfresh to chill in the frame. McElfresh didn’t 
even need to make any saves, as the only attempted shot by the Pioneers 
was not on target. 
“It was a great performance today by the entire group," UCSD head 
coach Jon Pascale told the UCSD Athletics Department. "We got off to a 
good start and never looked back. Our defending was especially spot on, 
only allowing a couple of half chances."
UCSD is on the road again this week, playing Cal State San Bernardino 
today at 12:30 p.m.MEN'S SOCCER
Tritons Clinch Fourth 
Consecutive CCAA 
Tournament Berth
The Tritons defeat Cal State East Bay and hope to maintain their stellar CCAA record as the regular season comes to a close.by Rosina Garcia  // Sports Editor
Rosina Garcia   rmg008@ucsd.eduPHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE /UCSD GUARDIANUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM. Soccer
W. Soccer
W. Volleyball
Swim
W. Volleyball10/27
10/27
10/28
10/29
10/2912:30 PM
3 PM
7 PM
12 PM
7 PMAT Cal State San Bernardino
AT Cal State San Bernardino
AT Cal Poly Pomona
VS Claremont-Mudd-Scripps
VS Cal State San Bernardino