VOLUME 50, ISSUE 19   MONDA Y , NOVEMBER 28, 2016  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
UNDOCUMENTED 
AT UCSD
AN ESTIMATED 270  TO 300 
UNDOCUMENTED STUDENTS 
ATTEND UCSD. THE GUARDIAN 
SAT DOWN WITH ONE OF 
THEM TO LEARN ABOUT THEIR 
UNCERTAIN FUTURE AND WHAT 
UNDOCUMENTED STUDENT 
SERVICES DOES TO HELP THEM
ECHO  CHAMBERS 
WOMEN  SWEEP  A T  HOMEFA C E B O O K  A S  A  M E D I A  S O U R C E
Thank sgiving  classicOPINION, P AGE 4
sports,  P age  11
FORECAST
VERBATIM
FALSE OUTRAGE, SUCH 
AS POSTS CLAIMING THAT 
THE “OTHER SIDE” IS 
SUPPOSEDLY OUTRAGED OVER 
A POSITION YOU HOLD DEAR, 
IS PARTICULARLY DAMAGING 
SINCE IT INCREASES THE 
DIVIDE BETWEEN YOU AND 
“THE OTHERS.”
- Nate Walker
ON FACEBOOK NEWS
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
SCITECH  ......................... 2
ACCESS PIPELINE  ........... 3
FOOD RECOVERY  ............ 6
CROSSWORD  ................ 10
M. BASKETBALL  ............ 12FEA TURES,  P AGE  7
MONDAY
H 62 L 51TUESDAY
H 66 L 48
WEDNESDAY
H 64 L 49THURSDAY 
H 62 L 47
The UCSD Guardian has 
discovered that while 
the theatre and dance 
department offered 21 laid-off 
production employees replacement 
jobs, the positions require “new 
skills” and pay up to 30 percent less 
than their current positions, which 
will be dissolved this January.
If an employee is rehired by 
the university, they will be given a 
nine-month contract with a summer 
break rather than the standard 
yearly contract, which amounts to 
a pay cut of over 40 percent. Hourly 
pay will be $19-20, a decrease from 
the current wage, which starts at 
$25.
The production staff, many of whom have been employed by the 
university for up to 35 years, worked 
to put on numerous shows at both 
UCSD and La Jolla Playhouse and 
were told they could apply for 
positions at either institution. 
According to Will Widick, who 
worked as a joint staff member for 
the theatre and dance department 
and La Jolla Playhouse for 14 years 
before being laid off, only one open 
position is listed at the Playhouse, 
and the window to apply for a 
replacement job at UCSD closed 
two days early. 
In their “Dedicated Staffing 
Plan” issued by the department of 
communications and public affairs, 
the theatre and dance department 
and the Playhouse avoided 
guaranteeing replacement jobs, but 
stated they would be creating an equal number of jobs to laid-off 
employees. 
“In the new staffing model for 
the UC San Diego Department of 
Theatre and Dance, 21 positions 
will be created; those laid-off 
are encouraged to reapply for 
production positions, ” the statement 
reads. 
Widick told the Guardian it’s 
unlikely everyone will be rehired. 
“[The theatre and dance 
department] have reclassified the 
new positions at a much lower pay 
scale and no guarantees that we will 
be rehired, ” Widick said. “They’re 
combining two departments, 
lighting and sound, so three 
positions will be lost there. ” 
The production employee also Napolitano 
Releases 
Plan to Assist 
Undocumented 
StudentsUC SYSTEM
The working group is a response 
to potential policy changes  
during the Trump presidency. 
Following the results of the 
general election, UC President Janet 
Napolitano announced, on Nov. 15, 
her plan to establish a “Working 
Group in Support of Undocumented    
Students at the University                                                     
of California. ”
According to an email sent out 
by Becky Petitt, vice chancellor 
for diversity, equity, and inclusion 
at UCSD, the working group is 
expected to “explore and provide 
counsel regarding [the University 
of California’s] response to any 
potential changes to Deferred 
Action for Childhood Arrivals.”
Although no additional details 
have been released, Muir College 
sophomore and co-chair of Migrant 
Rights Awareness Belén Hernández-
Garcia told the UCSD Guardian 
that a meeting is planned with 
coordinators from the resource 
centers for undocumented students 
at each UC campus.
Alexis Buz, a senior double 
majoring in ethnic studies and 
public health and the co-chair of 
MiRA, believes that the working 
group should focus on providing 
legal and financial aid for                
undocumented students.
“ At UCSD specifically, we need 
the funding for our undocumented 
student services coordinator 
and program to be permanently 
funded and stable, ” Buz explained 
to the Guardian. “Following 
in the direction of several UCs, 
UCSD needs a full-time, onsite 
immigration attorney to meet the 
legal needs of our students and their 
loved ones. ” 
He also recommended finding 
a way to support students who are 
not covered by the Deferred Action 
for Childhood Arrivals, which a 
policy which gives undocumented 
immigrants who arrived in the 
US before June 2007 and before 
their 16th birthday, a two-year 
work permit and exemption                               
from deportation.
“There needs to be a holistic 
understanding of our students’ 
mental, academic and financial 
needs as they navigate their 
undergraduate and graduate 
education at UCSD, ” Buz said. 
There has been a movement 
encouraging UC officials to make 
UCSD and other UCs into sanctuary 
schools. Aditi Gautam, a Thurgood 
Marshall College senior studying 
economics and mathematics, 
believes this is an important step Expert Says Literature Building Not a Cancer Cluster
In response to fears among faculty that the 
Literature Building causes cancer, Dr. Thomas 
Mack, a professor of preventative medicine and 
pathology considered an expert on the causation 
of cancers, gave a public lecture last Monday 
called “ Addressing Cancer Concerns: An Informed 
Approach. ” 
Mack explained “there is no reason to think that 
any building causes cancer, and I know of no reason 
to think that anything in or near the Literature 
Building has anything to do with causing cancer in 
general or breast cancer in particular. ” 
According to the Literature Building staff, ten 
cases of breast cancer occurred among workers from 
1991 to 2016, with eight of those being diagnosed 
between 2000 and 2006. 
Considering approximately 108 women work in 
the Literature Building and one in eight women will 
be diagnosed with breast cancer in their lifetime, 
Mack deduced that the cancer cases were more likely 
the product of chance than any physical factor.  
“I concluded that the number of cases that 
occurred, while higher than the predicted average, 
was no higher than would occur by chance at any 
given time among several of the many buildings of this size in the academic institutions of San Diego 
County, ” Mack told the UCSD Guardian. 
While the Literature Building is not a cancer 
cluster, cancer clusters have been discovered in the 
United States and around the world, but are very rare 
and often produce uncommon cancer types, Mack 
noted. 
An example is Chernobyl and the region 
surrounding the site of the 1986 nuclear disaster, 
where those within the affected zone experienced 
increased incidences of thyroid cancer and leukaemia. 
Mack also provided examples of true cancer clusters 
in Turkey, New Caledonia, Argentina and Italy. 
According to Mack, it is safer to examine 
demographics than geographics when considering 
the various causes of cancer. 
“Locations vary greatly in the incidence of most 
common and uncommon cancers, but the reasons for 
the variation in risk are demographic, meaning age, 
social class and ethnicity, rather than geographic, ” 
Mack said. “True clusters do occur, but they never 
have been clusters of breast cancer and they are 
usually associated with very rare cancers. ”
The “only biological reason” women in the 
Literature Building might be at higher risk than B y  MA TTHEW ZAMUDIO    ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITORLIBRARY WALK
Laid Off Production Staff Not Guaranteed New Jobs
Despite creating as many jobs as they eliminated, the university will probably not rehire everyone.See CANCER , page 3
ARTS
BY   M a t t h e w   Z a m u d i o
associate news editor
See THEATRE  , page 3 See UNDOCUMENTED  , page 3
BY   P R O M I T A  N A N DY 
STAFF WRITER
Last Monday, students protested against the UC Regents request to raise tuition by approximately $300 for the 2017-18 school year. 
Photo by Patrick Lazo // UCSD Guardian
CAMPUSLife Under 
the Radar
“2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 28, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
FLEETING THOUGHTS By Irene Chiang
Richard L Sherman DDS
(858 ) 453-5525
www.TorreyPinesDentalArts.com
9850 Genesee Ave., Suite 720  (Scripps/Ximed)
TORREY PINES
DENTAL ARTS
For All of Your Dental Care Needs...
• General & Cosmetic Dentistry
• Oral Surgery & Implants
• Sedation Dentistry
• Microscopic Endodontics
• Comprehensive Periodontics
• ZOOM™ Teeth Whitening
• Invisalign®
• Care Credit AvailableYOUR NEWS NOW
ucsdguardian.org
A.S. CONCERTS AND EVENTS
ENTERTAINMENT
SURVEYWe take your entertainment seriously. 
Give A.S. Concerts & Events your 
opinion on the Sun God Festival, top 
artists, genres, and events that you 
want to see this year. 
Take our Entertainment Survey to
be entered for the chance to win a
$10 Starbucks gift card.
https:/ /studentvoice.com/ucsd/asce16The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. “As a sound engineer, I want to photoshop your 
voice on the track,” - KuWin.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Caroline Lee
Marketing Director
Peter McInnis
Training and Development Manager
Allison Kubo
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Tina Butoiu
Marcus Thuillier
Maria Sebas
Lauren Holt
Quinn Pieper
Rosina Garcia
Oliver Kelton
Sam Velazquez
Naftali Burakovsky
Brittney Lu
Christian Duarte
Joselynn Ordaz
Aleya Zenieris
Kenji Bennett
Ayat Amin
Christina Carlson
Sophia Huang
Sage Schubert ChristianEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
News Editor
 
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Multimedia Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editors
Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Aleya Zenieris, Quinn Pieper
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim, Alicia Ho, Lisa Chik
Editorial Assistants
Nathaniel Walker, Lisa Chik, Alex Wu, Miguel ShekerResearchers at UCSD’s School 
of Medicine and Skaggs School 
of Pharmacy have found a way to 
construct a “lifestyle sketch” of an 
individual from the molecules left 
over on a phone screen in a recent 
proof-of-concept study.
The study, coming from the 
lab of senior author Pieter 
Dorrestein, Ph.D., and a professor 
at UCSD’s School of Medicine and 
Skaggs School of Pharmacy and 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, shows 
promising preliminary findings 
about how much we can learn from 
the molecular signature of our 
phones. They are able to determine 
someone’s dietary habits, health 
status, hygiene products and even 
where they have recently been. 
The sample group was 39 
adult volunteers who had their 
phones swabbed in four strategic 
places. They then used an 
analytic technique called mass 
spectrometry to separate each 
individual molecule by mass, 
giving the researchers a reliable 
way to identify the molecules 
using a crowdsourced mass 
spectrometry repository called 
the GNPS database. The database 
was developed by Dorrestein and co-author Nuno Bandeira, Ph.D., 
an associate professor at the Jacobs 
School of Engineering and Skaggs 
School of Pharmacy.
First author Amina Bouslimani, 
a Ph.D. candidate at Skaggs School 
of Pharmacy and assistant project 
scientist in Dorrestein’s lab, 
explained the level of detail that 
these molecular analyses could 
give us about a person’s lifestyle.
“By analyzing the molecules 
they’ve left behind on their phones, 
we could tell if a person is likely 
female, uses high-end cosmetics, 
dyes her hair, drinks coffee, prefers 
beer over wine, likes spicy food, is 
being treated for depression, wears 
sunscreen and bug spray — and 
therefore likely spends a lot of time 
outdoors — all kinds of things, ” 
Bouslimani said.
While the reconstruction of 
what a person uses is remarkably 
accurate, there are limitations to 
this technique. 
In a press release, Dorrestein 
described how these molecular 
readouts are not a one-to-one 
match of a person’s lifestyle; 
they cannot be used to identify 
someone like a fingerprint can. A 
more detailed and diverse database 
is needed to reach the scale of a 
fingerprint database — a feat that 
will require the effort of more than one lab.
Other potential uses include 
medical and environmental studies, 
particularly precision medicine, 
where such readouts can be used 
to tailor medications to a person’s 
specific metabolism. There are 
implications for environmental 
studies where such molecular 
traces could be used to provide 
a picture of the environmental 
pollutants or toxic substances in 
their community. 
Bouslimani explained how 
the idea of molecular signatures 
became the focus of their research 
efforts after a previous study in 
2013 that created a 3D molecular 
map of the human skin. 
“[After that study] ... we found 
out that most of the molecules that 
are found on our skin originate from 
our lifestyle [such as personal care 
products and clothes], ” Bouslimani 
told the UCSD Guardian. “Then 
we thought, what if these lifestyle 
molecules can be transferred to 
objects that we use every day?”
The study is now moving 
forward by extending the sample 
size to include another 80 people. 
Researchers will analyze other 
common personal objects such 
as keys, wallets and computers, 
and expand the profile of each 
person to include bacteria and                       other microbes.
Bouslimani expressed her 
excitement for a larger, more 
detailed database of “lifestyle 
molecules” and the possibility of 
commercial applications. She says 
she can imagine a future where 
such technology may be widely 
available for the public, though 
improvements in the identification 
process will be needed.
“We can imagine, for example, 
that the phone of the future will 
be able to tell us our personal 
habits based on a finger touch, ” 
Bouslimani said. “For instance, 
this could tell us the kind of food 
we eat, and if for example the 
person eats too much fatty food or 
unhealthy food, then there could 
be a proposed diet to guide this 
person to adjust her diet toward a 
healthier one. Same can be possible 
with disease and medications — 
‘self monitoring’ phone applications 
can be used for a quick and non-
invasive monitoring of glycemia 
for example, or even to monitor 
drug metabolism to see how well 
the drug is metabolized for an 
individual. ”Particles on Phones Can Be Used to Compose Sketches of  Lifestyles
The study shows that researchers are able to accurately determine information like the user’s gender, health status and recent location.SCITECH
BY  R e b e c ca  C h o n g
staff writer
Rebecca Chong  rcchong@ucsd.eduNEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 28, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
25% OFF ENTIRE STORE
ADD US ON SNAPCHAT FOR EXTRA SAVINGS & FREE STUFF
IT’S THE HOLLADAY SALEOH SNAP!
tritonoutfitter
WATCH OUR STORY FOR THE HOLLADAY SNAPENGER HUNT - GET CLUES TO FREE STUFF ON CAMPUSNOV 29 - DEC 1
LIBRARY WALK • 10am-2pm▶ CANCER,  from page 1 Mack: Cancer Cluster Fears Caused by Lack of  Accessible Information  
other women has to do with their 
education and social class, Mack 
explained. Women who are highly 
educated usually give birth later in 
life, which increases their chances of 
being diagnosed with breast cancer. 
“If that many women who work 
in the Literature Building had 
delayed becoming pregnant until 
well after their teenage years, that 
fact makes them slightly more likely 
to become affected,” Mack said. 
“That would be true no matter what 
building they worked in. ” 
But Mack was sure throughout 
his lecture never to rule out chance. 
“Bad luck is an alternative 
explanation, ” he added. 
In June, graduate students from 
the Literature Department made a change.org petition against the 
Literature Building that received 
873 signatures, citing concerns that 
it was a cancer cluster. Among other 
things, they called for relocation, 
additional testing of levels of 
“endocrine disrupters, ” and a public 
meeting at an accessible time. 
“We cannot walk the hallways 
without thinking of lost friends and 
mentors, ” the petition reads. “We 
cannot be fully present in seminars 
or office hours without thinking 
about the dangers we might be 
exposed to on a daily basis. Many of 
us just stay away from the building. ”
When asked to speculate why 
some faculty members continue to 
believe the Literature Building is a  cancer cluster, Mack blamed a lack 
of accessible information on the 
subject. 
“We have not done a very good 
job of explaining to laypersons about 
the demographic factors involved, ” 
Mack said. “It is perfectly reasonable 
to be concerned when persons who 
are like you become affected. ” 
Mack’s expertise on cancer 
clusters and the causation of 
cancers comes from his many years 
of professional experience as an 
internist and researcher. He is the 
author of the book “Cancers in the 
Urban Environment.”told the Guardian he believes 
the university is seeking younger 
staff members who are less 
skilled and more willing to take                                      
low-paying positions. 
“For many years now our 
facilities have been expanding and 
our staff level shrinking, and we 
still did a great job, ” Widick said. 
“They’ll probably hire younger 
workers who will take the jobs 
before they realize how expensive it 
is to live here. It’s an opportunity for 
them to eliminate staff and bring in 
younger, cheaper staff. ” 
While the administration has not 
announced who it plans to hire, nor 
whether previously hired employees 
take priority over new applicants, 
the decision to fire long-time 
production employees resembles 
recent layoffs at UC San Francisco, 
where 17 percent of the IT staff 
at the university were replaced by 
younger international technicians. 
An employee-led retaliation 
to the layoffs is taking place on 
social media and elsewhere, with 
the University Professionals 
and Technical Employees union 
fighting for the production staff, 
whose termination will take effect                 
this January.
The UPTE union has also aided 
employees in getting the word 
out about the layoffs, paying for 
flyers and urging individuals at the 
administrative level to rehire laid 
off workers.
In a letter addressed to Chancellor 
Pradeep Khosla, class of 2006 theatre 
graduate Arash Haile asked that the 
university “immediately rescind the 
layoffs and start a dialogue with the 
joint-staff managers to chart a better course going forward. ”
“These are some of the most 
dedicated, professional, and driven 
workers who have chosen to uphold 
a standard of work and education, ” 
Haile said in his letter. “I firmly 
believe you will be able to find a 
solution that will work for everyone 
involved and not have to implement 
any layoffs. There is still time. ” 
Every theatre and dance 
department employee was 
considered “joint staff ” before the 
layoffs, working side by side with 
staff at the Playhouse to produce all 
productions there and at UCSD.
Many on the theatre and dance 
department’s production staff 
worked on Playhouse-born shows 
like “Jersey Boys” and “Memphis, ” 
which went on to win Tony awards. 
Widick, who is serving as a proxy 
for the many production employees 
who are afraid to speak out about the 
layoffs for fear of being singled out 
in the rehire process, emphasized 
the production staff ’s expertise in 
putting on award-winning shows.
“We never failed a show, ” said 
Widick. “Never. ” 
The Playhouse was contacted for 
comment but forwarded our call 
to its main office, where the press 
relations manager had gone home. 
The office employee reached at 
the theatre and dance department 
said they couldn’t answer questions 
because everyone authorized to 
speak to press was busy. When asked 
if we could call back later when 
someone was free, the employee 
said no. ▶ THEATRE,  from page 1Fired Production Employees Worked On 
Several T ony Award-Winning Shows
▶ UNDOCUMENTED  from page 1On-Campus Attorneys Are Available to Provide Assistance to Students
to take.
“If we can’t change the president, 
we can at least make our university 
an opposition of everything he 
stands for, ” she told the Guardian. 
“Especially when it comes to 
undocumented immigrants                      
and immigration. ”
Garcia agreed with Gautam, 
explaining that deciding whether 
or not to turn the UC system into 
sanctuary schools should not be up 
for debate. 
“Making UCSD and [all UC 
campuses] into sanctuary schools 
is necessary, is pressing, and it 
should not even be a debate, ” Garcia 
said. “Questioning [undocumented 
immigrants’] right to peace of 
mind and their education is                                  
just unacceptable. ” 
Buz echoed these sentiments, 
saying that turning UCSD into a sanctuary school is imperative.
“Our communities across 
the state and country need to 
be protected and defended and 
becoming a public sanctuary system 
will directly reassure them that we 
are doing everything within our 
policy, legal and constitutional 
power to protect our undocumented 
families, ” Buz added. 
In response to the anti-Semitic 
and other discriminatory graffiti 
found around our campus, Garcia 
reminds students that they are                                  
not alone.
“Look for others who share the 
same fears as you through student 
orgs, community resource centers, 
residential spaces, ” she explained. 
“T ogether you will find power. ”
Currently, UCSD provides 
legal services and counseling to 
undocumented immigrants at the Undocumented Student Services 
Center. Among other services, it 
provides students with access to 
attorneys three times a quarter. In 
addition to this Petitt emphasized 
that UCSD’s student body has a 
commitment to inclusion and 
support as well.
“I condemn, in the strongest 
terms, what appears to be attempts to 
create an atmosphere of intimidation 
and fear among members of our 
campus community,” she wrote. 
“I reaffirm our commitment to 
equity, diversity, and inclusion 
and encourage our community of 
scholars to exemplify our academic 
mission of engaging difficult issues 
intellectually and remaining open 
to hearing and learning from                                               
differing perspectives. ”MA TTHEW ZAMUDIO  M1ZAMUDI@ucsd.edu
MA TTHEW ZAMUDIO  M1ZAMUDI@ucsd.edu PROMIT A NAND Y  PNANDY@ucsd.edu4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 28, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
QUINN PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
In addition to partisanship, 
rhetoric and suspicious hair, the most 
recent election was also notable for 
a massive increase in news stories 
spread, and generated, by social 
media. According to Pew Research 
statistics, 63 percent of all Americans 
get at least part of their news from 
social media sites such as Facebook, 
You Tu b e  or  R e d d it .  C l e ar l y,  s o c i a l  
media has become an extremely 
important platform for politicians and 
marketers alike to help spread their 
message and reach their audience. For 
news organizations, this has meant a 
dramatic restructuring in how news 
is delivered to target audience as they 
transition to attract desirable groups. 
However, due to the ease with which social media companies like Facebook 
can target individual audiences, 
news and entertainment industries 
often ignore large sections of the 
population that disagree with their 
message and therefore wouldn’t 
generate any ad revenue. In turn, 
this creates echo chambers, isolating 
like-minded groups and reducing 
competing and critiquing voices 
while enabling sensationalistic, 
misleading or outright false news.
A core issue at hand is that fake 
news gets a lot of attention. For 
example, a fake news story in the 
final days of the election indicating 
that an anti-Trump protest was 
staged generated over 350,000 
shares on Facebook, increasing as right-wing Facebook groups shared 
and spread the story. However, 
while the original story energized 
the internet, the legitimate news 
stories offering the truth never took 
off. The Snopes article debunking 
the protest gained less than 6,000 
views, less than 3 percent of the 
number of people who saw the 
other story. This in itself points 
to a lack of critical thinking and 
skepticism in social media users, 
who indeed should be skeptical 
of everything they read from an 
unverified news source.
Most of the people who saw the 
Snopes article were not part of the 
350,000 who originally saw the fake 
story. Because conservative and liberal media groups predominantly 
have followers who agree with their 
biases, a conservative or liberal 
viewpoint will quickly gain traction 
throughout these groups without any 
critiquing influence. Furthermore, 
since these Facebook members are 
far more likely to mostly have friends 
with similar political viewpoints, the 
false message can easily spread across 
an internet community. To make 
matters worse, Facebook knows 
this, and specifically increases the 
presence of such political messages 
on your homepage in hopes that 
you will click the link, generate the 
ad revenue and share the post.
New media organizations have 
figured this out and subsequently profited from users’ gullibility. 
The managers of this new segment 
of sites recruit people in foreign 
countries, such as Macedonia, to 
think up sensationalist headlines 
and publish them under semi-
factual websites in order to gain 
ad revenue on such webpages, 
which accounts for a hefty sum 
in developing countries. These 
profiteers admit they have no 
relevant political views, but rather 
recognize the economic value in 
creating such fake “news” and 
spreading it across like-minded 
groups. Due to the lack of 
critiquing voices, these stories are BY NATE WALKER/ / ASSOCIATE OPINION EDITOR
 ILLUSTRATION BY CHRISTINA CARLSONA new type of media network has taken Facebook by storm, and sources in this category share one quality: they’re not news at all. Marketed to 
engage like-minded users with polarized and often-false content, they had a place in the political discourse of the past election cycle. The promise of 
their future, though, may depend on what Facebook does to intervene in their future.
See ECHO CHAMBER , page 5
It’s a flashback to the 1960s: 
countless protesters being sprayed 
down with high-pressure fire 
hoses and brutally attacked by law 
enforcement as they defend their 
rights against marginalization and 
oppression within the U.S. The 
protesters in today’s scene call 
themselves water protectors as 
they stand their ground against law 
enforcement at the Standing Rock 
encampments near the construction of 
the Dakota Access Pipeline. 
Stretching 1,172 miles from 
North Dakota all the way through 
Illinois, the pipeline would carry 
approximately 470,000 barrels of 
crude oil each day and, should it 
leak, would risk contaminating the 
water supply for all residents in the 
area surrounding it. Its original 
route near Bismarck was even 
rejected due to “its potential threat 
to Bismarck’s water supply. ” Stating 
that an accidental pipeline spill would 
have a significantly dangerous effect 
on residents reliant on the city’s 
water supply, the U.S. Army Corps 
of Engineers redesigned the route to 
cross a half-mile north of the Sioux Tribe Reservation, instead putting 
all of these individuals at risk and 
intruding on their land in a way that 
would destroy their “burial sites, 
prayer sites and culturally significant 
artifacts. ”
On Nov. 20, the Sioux Tribe’s 
water protectors attempted to move 
burnt military vehicles which were 
blocking Highway 1806 for weeks. 
The blockade prevented emergency 
services from quickly accessing the 
area and aiding the injured water 
protectors. Violence began as the 
water protectors worked to open 
up the road again, taking on a 
heavy strike of tear gas, rubber 
bullets, water cannons (despite 
temperatures being in the low 
20s), and other weapons from 
local law enforcement. Yet as this 
violence continues, the Obama 
administration merely continues to 
play the waiting game. 
These forms of violence and 
discriminatory actions by law 
enforcement should not be permitted. 
Both sides of this movement should 
be allowed to peacefully express their 
rights to free speech and assembly. As water protectors simply worked to 
remove the road blockade which was 
serving as a hazard to their own safety, 
law enforcement brutally forced the 
water protectors to flee from the area 
and prevented them from clearing    
the road. 
Obama has once before supported 
minorities through the designation 
of national monuments, such as that of the Stonewall monument 
which served as recognition of the 
beginning of the LGBTQ movement 
in the United States. It is time for 
him to step up and protect the Native 
Americans put at risk while he still 
has the chance, before president-elect 
Donald Trump (who already has 
two million dollars invested in the 
Dakota Pipeline) officially permits the 
pipeline’s construction. 
The Stonewall monument was 
designated only two weeks after the 
shooting at a gay bar in Orlando and 
only days before the legalization of 
same-sex marriage. The monument 
emphasized national support for the 
LGBTQ community and provided 
a sense of unity during the difficult 
times that followed the shooting. 
In the same school of thought, 
Obama could declare Standing Rock 
a national monument in order to 
protect the Native Americans, and, 
in the process, prevent the pipeline 
from being built directly near                   
their territory. 
Y et, if declaring a national 
monument is an unrealistic 
alternative, Obama should at least declare it necessary that the pipeline is 
rerouted in order to protect the sacred 
land and traditions of the Native 
American people. The Army Corps 
of Engineers is currently considering 
an alternate route for the pipeline, but 
construction has not halted. Instead, 
they have so much as announced 
plans to evict all protestors from 
the camp on Dec. 5. Obama’s use of 
executive power could mandate a halt 
of the construction while requiring an 
alternate route to be found.
Native Americans have long 
been left marginalized within the 
United States, their rights often being 
overlooked and government treaties 
and promises being neglected. Obama 
may not have unlimited power to 
protect minorities, but as the future 
of the Native Americans’ sacred land 
and traditions as well as simply the 
clean water supply is put at risk, it 
is time for him to take action and 
remind the Native American people 
that the United States does, in fact, 
hear their pleas. BY EMILY COLLINS // STAFF WRITER
EMIL Y COLLINS      EACOLLIN@UCSD.EDUThe People Have Spoken On the Dakota Access 
Pipeline – Now It’s Time for Obama  to Listen
These forms 
of violence and 
discriminatory 
actions by law 
enforcement should 
not be permitted. 
Both sides of this 
movement should 
be allowed to 
peacefully express 
their rights to 
free speech and 
assembly. 
“
“
“
“Like, Share, Lie: How 
Facebook Enables False 
and Misleading NewsOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 28, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
Read about all the details at: http://as3.ucsd.edu/SafeRides/Home
CINEMA
PRESENTS
DEC 2 | 8PM | PC THEATERCINEMAclicked, read and shared without 
any independent fact-checking              
or sourcing.
All of this results in an echo 
chamber, one that is nearly 
impermeable. As ideas spread across 
a community, the more vitriolic and 
sensationalistic ones grow and reach 
a greater and greater audience. False 
outrage, such as posts claiming 
that the “other side” is supposedly 
outraged over a position you hold 
dear, is particularly damaging since 
it increases the divide between 
you and “the others. ” These types 
of appeals convince readers that 
they are either “with us, or against 
us, ” leaving no middle ground for 
moderate voices. Over time, this 
results in a intense polarization of groups with virtually no contact 
between them, although there is 
plenty of contact within each group 
demonizing the other.
Given the massive rise of false 
political messages that continue 
to spread across its site, Facebook 
needs to walk a delicate balance 
between removing clearly untrue 
news, yet not censoring users’ posts. 
Though it would be technically 
challenging to develop an algorithm 
to sort through posts and checking 
its veracity, it would be concerning 
if Facebook removed personal 
posts, even if they were clearly fake. 
What’s certain is that Facebook’s 
trending bar, which it controls via 
an algorithm, is easily manipulated 
into publishing fake stories, causing 
further concerns that Facebook 
is indulging in this unethical behaviour by netting ad revenue. 
Facebook, as one of the largest 
sources of news to the current 
generation, needs to develop 
itself into a media company with 
integrity and awareness, not a tech 
company. With proper research and 
manpower, Facebook can reliably 
and consistently remove false 
news stories from its trending bar, 
and reduce the ranking of stories 
from pages flagged as misleading. 
Google and Facebook have already 
taken some steps to reduce the ad 
revenue these websites generate, 
but more action is needed to 
encourage reasonable debate and 
moderate voices across the entire            
political spectrum.
Na te w alker     NWALKER@UCSD.EDU▶ ECHO CHAMBER, from page 4
WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
▶ HARASSMENT, from page 4
LIKE US ON
 FACEBOOK
facebook.com/ucsdguardian6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 28, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
OLIVER KEL TON
features@ucsdguardian.org
Having too much food sounds like a luxury, maybe even a dream. To the Food 
Recovery Network, however, the situation poses both an environmental problem 
and a hunger-abating solution.
Born out of a frustration with food waste and homelessness, the FRN strives to alleviate 
both issues at a local, grassroots level. First, members of the national service organization 
gather leftover food from their respective college’s dining halls before repackaging, 
transporting and donating it to homeless shelters to feed hungry occupants. UCSD has 
its own newly-founded chapter, which has grown from a small volunteer project among 
friends to a full-fledged organized effort to diminish food waste and feed homeless San 
Diego youth in just one year.
Like many of the chapter’s co-founders, Sara Rupp, one of the co-presidents of FRN@
UCSD, was working at Housing, Dining and Hospitality at the time of the organization’s 
inception. As a UCSD Catering Services employee, she witnessed firsthand how much 
food was consistently being wasted and resented her involvement in the process.
“Every day, you just see dozens of pounds of really good food get thrown out, ” Rupp 
told the UCSD Guardian. “It just killed me to see it all getting wasted, and I was really 
frustrated that I had to participate in it. ”
But when she and others shared their common frustrations, they decided to take action 
and proposed to HDH a solution that would be beneficial to all parties involved.
Though HDH now fully supports FRN@UCSD and its mission, it was hesitant to 
approve the project at first, partly due to justified concerns about the organization’s lack 
of preparation. 
“We weren’t organized at all, and we didn’t seem legitimate to them, ” Rupp admitted. 
It ultimately took a whole year of negotiating to establish a partnership with HDH to 
recover its food.
FRN@UCSD’S current advisor, UCSD Executive Chef Vaughn Vargus, was actually one 
of its opponents in the beginning, mainly due to doubts about the members’ qualifications 
to safely handle and transport food.
“Because he invests so much creativity, passion and care into the food that he serves 
students, he doesn’t want any of his good food that he put so much work into going to an 
intermediary that is unqualified to safely transport it, ” Rupp explained. “He doesn’t want 
anyone getting food poisoning from his food because he feels responsible, even though 
legally, he’s not. ”
However, now that the organization is certified and has proven its ability to handle 
the sensitive tasks involved in food recovery, HDH has gotten behind FRN@UCSD, 
occasionally supplying its members with food recovery items — pans, foil, gloves and 
coolers — and even helping it expand to other parts of campus, like the Faculty Club. 
“Because the chef knew our reputation with HDH, [the Faculty Club] trusted us, so it 
only took an hour-long meeting to get a partnership with them, ” Rupp said.
The Food Recovery Network and HDH, however, don’t just have a one-way relationship. 
As HDH helps the organization become more efficient at recovering food, it’s helping 
HDH become more sustainable, waste less food and effectively lessen the amount of food 
the organization has to recover.
“We help [HDH] hold themselves accountable because we are showing them to their 
face how much they waste, ” Rupp explained. “We keep logs of the amount wasted and 
they take pictures of every pan that we recover so that they know what they’re wasting 
consistently and what they should produce less of. ”
Once the food recovery aspect of the process was taken care of, the other half of the 
equation — finding a homeless shelter to donate the food to — was still unsettled. Though 
one might expect there to be many homeless shelters eager to take on hundreds of pounds 
of food for their starving patrons, especially in a city with one of the nation’s largest 
homeless populations, it was actually quite difficult for FRN@UCSD to find a suitor.
“Over the summer, I looked through about 20 local homeless shelters and soup kitchens 
in the area, but only Urban Street Angels could take our food, ” Rupp explained. “ All the 
other ones could not take cooked foods, they didn’t have a food handler’s license, they 
were up to capacity, or they just didn’t have refrigerators. ”
Fortunately, Urban Street Angels, which serves San Diego’s homeless youth (18 to 26 
year olds), is able to take all of the food that FRN@UCSD recovers and uses it to feed over 
80 people every week, an extremely rewarding result of the organization’s efforts.
“There's the common saying, ‘I’m starving, ’ but not many of us really know what starving By Jacky To // Contributing Writer
Though having a surplus of food is certainly preferable to a shortage, UC San Diego 
dining halls are wasting far too much food to justify. Food Recovery Network at 
UCSD recognizes this and is trying to put the hundreds of pounds of leftovers to use 
by donating them to a local homeless shelter. The UCSD Guardian sat down with the 
service organization’s two presidents, Sara Rupp and Chaz Woxland to talk about the 
group’s growth and accomplishments.Waste No More: Food Recovery at UCSD
SeeFOOD RECOVERY , page 8Photos Courtesy of FRN@UCSDFEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 28, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
In a room that used to be a janitor’s closet, set atop the fifth floor of the 
Student Services Building, there is a man named Daniel Arturo Alfaro 
Arellano. He is the coordinator of the Undocumented Student Services 
Center, and right now, he is very busy.
Arellano took over as coordinator for the center less than six months ago 
in July, when its previous coordinator stepped down. The Undocumented 
Student Services Center had been open for two years, a result of requests 
from students as well as administration dating back to 2006 for a center that 
would address the needs of undocumented students.
Luis, an undocumented senior from Revelle College who chose not 
to publish his last name, described the difficulty of navigating campus 
resources when he first came to UC San Diego in January 2013 before the 
center was established.
“It used to be that I’ d go between different services on campus and they’ d 
always refer me to the International Center, ” Luis told the UCSD Guardian. 
“I came here at age 3. I’ve been here all my life, and I’ve never really thought 
of myself as international until I came [to UCSD] and I’m trying to find 
resources for paying for school, for housing. ”
Before the Undocumented Student Services Center was established, Luis 
lived in a state of limbo, stretched between various resource centers, none of 
which could fully address his needs as an undocumented student.
Enter Arellano. He is young, thoughtful and extremely passionate about 
helping undocumented students. He often says “our students” and “our 
families” in phrases that convey his affection for the young men and women 
who visit the center and use its services.
Before the Undocumented Center, Arellano worked at Alliance San 
Diego, a local nonprofit that supports immigration rights. There, he 
organized events to connect immigrants in San Diego with attorneys that 
could provide them with necessary legal services. When the position as 
coordinator opened up at UCSD, Arellano was thrilled. 
“I was really interested because I wanted to focus on students, ” 
Arellano said. “I had previously worked at a university, and I loved it. It 
was a great experience for me to go to campus, interact with, and help 
students every day. ”
Beyond the opportunity to work at a university again, Arellano had a 
personal stake in the position.
“I was undocumented myself at one point, and the majority of my family 
is still undocumented, ” Arellano explained. 
He recounts how difficult it was to transition into college without 
financial support or a sense of security. Rather than focusing on the 
curriculum offered, Arellano had to take into consideration tuition costs 
and proximity to his family’s home, which he was reluctant to stray far from. 
There was nothing similar to the Undocumented Student Services Center 
for Arellano to rely on for aid in classes he felt unprepared for and on a 
campus where he didn’t feel he could get involved. 
“ As I was applying for the position, I remember thinking, ‘I want to 
make sure that the issues I faced when I was going to college are issues 
that I’ll be working on to make sure that my students don’t go through 
them, ’” Arellano recalled.
Arellano has done a lot to tackle such issues. Within this quarter alone, he 
has connected over 30 undocumented students to the center’s immigration 
attorney — more clients than the center saw in 2014 and 2015 combined. 
While part of that is due to Arellano’s emphasis on providing undocumented Life Under 
the Radar: 
Undocumented 
Students at UCSD
by Tia Ikemoto //Associate Features Editor
students with the right programs and services to address their needs, he 
acknowledges that Trump’s election as president has also contributed to an 
increase in students seeking out the center. 
“It’s picked up after the election, and I’m sure the need for the service will 
be high moving forward. ”
Despite Arellano’s optimism, the topic of the election looms over the 
conversation, shading his statements slightly grey. But to understand how 
much Trump’s election has affected the 270 to 300 undocumented students 
that Arellano estimates attend UCSD, it is important to understand the 
legislative progress that has allowed students like Luis to enroll in classes in the 
first place. Because of the Dream Act, passed by the Obama administration in 
See UNDOCUMENTED , page 8With Trump’s election, undocumented students at UCSD face an 
uncertain future. The UCSD Guardian sat down with one such 
student to learn about what it is like to live in constant fear of 
deportation.8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 28, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
Tia  Ikemoto    Tikemoto@ucsd,eduis, ” Chaz Woxland, FRN@UCSD’s other co-president, stated. 
“We’re giving food to people that actually are starving and 
that otherwise couldn’t get out of bed because they’re so 
tired and distraught from not having enough energy or 
calories. ”
FRN@UCSD aims to give them the necessary calories by 
recovering nearly 250 pounds of food every week over the 
span of three days. Though this number is now typical for 
the organization, such tremendous progress in this short 
amount of time has been a pleasant surprise.
“This entire quarter has been completely different from 
what we’re used to. It’s been so far-fetched, ” Woxland told 
the Guardian. “The recoveries we did last spring when we 
were first starting out added up to about six pounds, and 
now we’re getting 60, 70 or 80 pounds [for every] recovery. ”
Fortunately, the student-run organization now has a 
sizable pool of volunteers to rely on, whereas in the summer, 
only eight of the members remained in San Diego, all of 
whom were in summer school. Now that FRN@UCSD 
has a staff of over 30 members — 12 board members and around 20 regular volunteers — it’s able to accomplish its 
weekly recoveries at a much more efficient pace, with each 
volunteer only having to commit to an hour or two per 
week. However, the organization is always looking to bring 
in new people to help expand its operations and become a 
part of their community.
To make volunteering as simple as possible, the 
organization posts all of its sign-up sheets on the FRN@
UCSD Facebook page. All you have do is open up the 
latest sign-up sheet, choose the times that work for you 
and FRN@UCSD will handle the rest from there. The 
members hope that by making the process so convenient 
and prioritizing newcomers, they’ll maximize the UCSD 
community’s involvement.
But for those still hesitant to join, Rupp succinctly 
summarizes the simplicity of the group’s mission. “There’s 
a common solution to two local problems, food waste and 
homelessness, and we provide it. It’s kind of a band-aid — I 
wish we didn’t need to exist — but it’s at least addressing 
symptoms that have real, severe consequences. ”   ▶ FOOD RECOVERY , from page 6
▶ UNDOCUMENTED , from page 7Jacky To   J6to@ucsd,edu
January 2013, young undocumented people like Luis who were 
brought over the border as children can now pursue a path 
to citizenship as well as register for financial aid through the 
Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program.
Luis has a personal connection to this issue. Born in Mexico, 
Luis and his younger brother were brought to the U.S. by their 
parents in the hopes of economic mobility.
“They wanted my brother and I to have an opportunity to 
become more than they were able to become, which was just 
farmers. They came over. A couple years in, we were living in 
a household with six other families. ”
When it came time to choose colleges, Luis was initially 
courted by several private school programs which sought to 
admit high achieving students from low income high schools. 
He went to interviews for engineering with schools known 
for their STEM programs like Harvey Mudd and M.I.T., but 
when he didn’t make the final round of admissions, his options 
quickly narrowed.
He recalls receiving UCSD’s letter in the mail, the very last 
admission letter to be sent. It was the only acceptance letter 
he got. His reaction? “Dang. It’s UCSD. It had to be that one. ”
He notes my confusion. UCSD is known for its STEM 
programs. Most budding engineers would be thrilled. Luis 
explains that given UCSD’s close proximity to the Tijuana 
border, the campus is undesirable for most undocumented 
students. He estimates that UCSD likely has one of the lowest 
populations of undocumented students because of its location.
“The border is right there, ” Luis said. “There are three 
different border patrol checkpoints three different directions 
from here. There’s just so many dangers for the undocumented 
population to come to UCSD. It’s easy to get here, but trying to 
go back home is the challenging part. ”
Because of that, Luis’ family has never been able to visit him 
on campus. They remained in Los Angeles while Luis moved 
himself into the dorms his freshman year, alone.
Their fears are not ungrounded. Just this year, 53-year-old 
Jose Alvarez was deported from Cal State Long Beach’s campus 
in an incident that rocked the undocumented community. 
Alvarez was visiting his son — a student at Cal State Long 
Beach — when he was pulled over by campus police for a 
broken taillight. When police found an immigration detainer 
request on his record, they arrested him. According to an 
article by Ariana Sawyer and Kevin Flores for Press-Telegram, 
Alvarez was forced to leave behind  his six children and wife to 
return to Mexico for the first time since 1974.
The incident sparked conversations about the need for 
schools to become sanctuary campuses — spaces which 
limit local law enforcement’s obligations to interact with 
Immigration and Customs Enforcement. Such a protocol 
would have prevented Cal State Long Beach police from having to enforce Alvarez’s immigration detainer request. In 
fact, Fernando Solorzano, the school’s police chief, announced 
in May that they would no longer be complying with ICE 
requests. At UCSD, many are calling for UCSD to do the same, 
especially in light of recent allegations that UCSD police were 
stopping students on campus and asking for their documents.
The story was circulated widely by Facebook users following 
the election, but was quickly disproven by both Arellano and 
the UCSD Police Department.
“The UC San Diego Police Department, like UC San 
Diego and the University of California system, is committed 
to diversity, inclusion and tolerance, ” the UCSD Police 
Department responded to the Guardian in a written statement. 
“We work with the campus community to ensure that UC 
San Diego is a safe space for all and remain committed to 
equal enforcement of the law and equal service to the public 
regardless of immigration status … The fact that an individual 
is suspected of being an undocumented immigrant is not the 
sole basis for contact, detention or arrest. ”
Although proven to be false, the popularity of the Facebook 
story speaks to how high fear and tensions are between law 
enforcement, school officials and undocumented students 
right now.
“ After the results of the election, students just kept on 
coming in, one after another, feeling lost, devastated, with a 
lot of fear, ” Arellano says. “I had to send a couple students 
to [Counseling and Psychological Services] because they 
just didn’t feel like coming to school. They didn’t feel 
like coming to class. This has definitely affected their 
academics. My goal and the goal of our unit is really just to 
try to mitigate as many of their concerns so that they can 
continue with their education. ”
But there is hope. Although the Undocumented Student 
Services Center, as a unit of student affairs, does not have 
the jurisdiction to push for UCSD’s move to become a 
sanctuary campus, Arellano is ready to support the needs of 
undocumented students. He is not the only one.
“Our chancellor just signed a letter supporting DACA and 
supporting our undocumented students, so I definitely think 
that even though the campus is not officially a sanctuary 
campus, we’re working with many partners on campus to make 
sure the campus is a safe zone for students. ”
In his final words, Arellano remains firm. “We’re going to 
fight any anti-immigrant policies that are introduced by the 
president-elect. I want to reassure students that they’re not 
alone. We know that there’s a lot of work to be done. There are 
going to be a lot of challenges that are coming up, but we’re 
here for them and their focus should be 100 percent on their 
education right now. ”CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 28, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
PRE SCREENING
COLLATERAL BEAUTY
PRICE CENTER THEATRE, PC WESTTahrirWEEKTHISat UC SAN DIEGO
NOV 28 - DEC 42016POWERED BY THE 
STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER
AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
MON 11.28 WED11.30THU12.01  6:30pm
THU12.01
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guardian
Calenda r
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdg uardian.orgTUE11.29
10am
YOGA ZONE: RESTORATIVE - THE 
ZONE, PC PLAZA
In truth, restorative yoga is simply that - 
restorative. It is the centering of your breath and 
body - aligning the physical and mental by 
practicing stillness or gently movement for 
extended periods of time. The props assist in 
helping you to hold poses longer. Led by FitLife 
instructor Nadine Lindseth. Yoga classes are free; 
blocks and yoga mats. Space is limited and is 
first come, first served. Contact: zone@ucsd.edu
1pm
RED RIBBON COOKIES AT THE 
ZONE - THE ZONE, PC PLAZA
Decorate your own red ribbon cookie in honor of 
World AIDS Day and learn about the variety of 
on-campus events taking place throughout the 
week to commemorate this global awareness 
event. Contact: sltan@ucsd.edu
5pm
ATHENS GLOBAL SEMINAR INFO 
SESSION - MCGILL HALL ROOM 
1350
Meet Professor Stephan Anagnostaras and learn 
about the courses and excursions for the Drugs, 
Behavior, and the History of Neuroscience in 
Greece Global Seminar. We will also discuss 
financial aid, scholarships, and the application 
process. See http://globalseminar.ucsd.edu for 
more information. Contact: 
globalseminar@ucsd.edu10am
BODY COMPOSITION - THE 
ZONE, PC PLAZA
Walk in for your free analysis which includes: 
body weight, percentage body fat, total body 
water, and blood pressure. One free 
assessment per quarter is available to 
registered UCSD students. Contact: 
zone@ucsd.edu
5pm
BERLIN GLOBAL SEMINAR INFO 
SESSION - ERC 
ADMINISTRATION BLDG. 2ND 
FLOOR CONFERENCE ROOM
Meet Professor Patrick Patterson and learn 
about the courses and excursions for the 
Revolution, Industry, and Empire in Berlin 
Global Seminar. We will also discuss financial 
aid, scholarships, and the application 
process. Contact: globalseminar@ucsd.edu
7:30pm
CHAOS MAGIC AND TEETHERS 
- THE LOFT, PRICE CENTER EAST
Pianist, composer, improviser, and Blues 
instructor for UCSD, Josh Charney, brings his 
group, Chaos Magic, to The Loft. Charney 
band includes graduate student, Kyle Motl, on 
bass and New York musician, Andrew Munsey, 
on drums. LA-based band, Teethers, featuring 
Andrew Lessman on drums, open the show. 
Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu11am
ART & SOUL: HOT COCOA IN A 
JAR - THE ZONE, PC PLAZA
Make a hot cocoa jar for yourself or a friend! 
Workshops are free; all supplies and materials 
provided. Space is limited and is first come, first 
served. Contact: zone@ucsd.edu
4pm
R&R SQUAD - THE ZONE, PC 
PLAZA
The Resources and Relaxation (R&R) Squad is a 
group of trained peer educators from the Health, 
Recreation and Well-being Cluster. The R&R 
Squad provides free 4-5 minute low intensity 
neck, back, shoulders and arm/hand rubs. 
Contact: zone@ucsd.edu
4pm
INSIDE INNOVATION: ANDREW 
KAHN AND JUAN CARLOS DEL 
ALAMO - ROTH AUDITORIUM, 
SANFORD CONSORTIUM
Inside Innovation is a presentation series 
featuring the latest innovative technologies 
developed by UC San Diego researchers. Get an 
inside look at what is happening in the labs, 
explore commercialization opportunities and 
inquire about licensing. These UC San Diego 
researchers have collaborated on a new 
diagnostic tool using ultrasound to determine 
stroke risk. Professor del Alamoâ   s lab focuses 
on biological fluid mechanics, cellular 
locomotion and non-invasive characterization of 
cardiac flows. Contact: innovation@ucsd.edu
5:30pm
TRITON INNOVATION CHALLENGE 
- BEYSTER AUDITORIUM, RADY 
SCHOOL OF MANAGEMENT
UC San Diego's Rady School of Management, 
Jacobs School of Engineering and the Scripps 
Institution of Oceanography, and through the 
generosity of The William and Kathryn Scripps 
Family Foundation Inc., are pleased to present 
the Triton Innovation Challenge. Now in its fifth 
year, the Triton Innovation Challenge competition 
spotlights commercially promising, 
environmentally focused technologies generated 
by UC San Diegoâ   s finest minds, emceed by 
Steve Poizner. Students, faculty and staff from 
across campus will pitch their compelling, 
innovative ideas to a panel of expert judges in an 
attempt to win $20,000 in funding. RSVP: 
Contact: khjensen@ucsd.edu
FRI12.02SAT12.03
2pm
DE-STRESS WITH BIOFEEDBACK - 
THE ZONE, PC PLAZA
Come de-stress with the CAPs Wellness Peers! 
Measure your psychological stressors and learn 
more about what makes you most stressed, how it 
affects your well-being and how to keep your 
stress levels down!  Workshops are all free. 
6pm
FOODIE FRIDAYS AT LA JOLLA 
PLAYHOUSE - LA JOLLA 
PLAYHOUS
Foodie Fridays: Theatergoers with a love for 
delicious eats and music are invited to attend 
Foodie Fridays, where a ticket to select Playhouse 
performances also includes access to San Diego's 
finest food trucks! Dates: November 11 - God 
Save the Cuisine. Contact: gmadamba@ljp.org6:50pm
SONIC SATURDAYS AT LA JOLLA 
PLAYHOUSE - LA JOLLA 
PLAYHOUSE
Sonic Saturdays: Enjoy complimentary beer 
tastings and live music from local San Diego 
musicians, Tori Roze and Johnny Alexander, 
before the show!
Contact: gmadamba@ljp.org11am
WORLD AIDS DAY - LIBRARY 
WALK
Join the Student Health Advocates in honoring 
World Aids Day on Thursday, December 1st. This 
yearâ   s event theme, Hands Up for 
#HIVprevention, aligns with the global effort of 
exploring different aspects of HIV prevention, 
including testing, protection, and education. 
Come visit us on Library Walk to learn more 
about these HIV prevention methods through 
interactive activities. Contact: 
shacoordinator@gmail.com
12pm
BREATHER SERIES: ARTS AND 
CRAFTS - ARTSPACE, 
CROSS-CULTURAL CENTER
Come to de-stress or take a break from work or 
school. Take home what you create, whether it's 
a picture frame, wooden box, canvas, etc. All 
supplies are provided! All are welcome! Contact: 
vigonzales@ucsd.edu
6:30pm
UNIVERSITY CENTERS 
PRESENTS: COLLATERAL 
BEAUTY - PRICE CENTER 
THEATER
DON'T MISS AN EXCLUSIVE PRE-SCREENING OF 
COLLATERAL BEAUTY TWO WEEKS BEFORE THE 
MOVIE HITS THEATERS! FREE for UCSD Students 
with ID! In order to ensure that you have a seat 
for the show make sure to reserve your tickets 
today! Reserve your tickets HERE: 
http://tinyurl.com/UCSDCOLLATERALBEAUTY
10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 28, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDSGuardian Classifieds are FREE for the UC San Diego community.
 www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedscrossword
Across
1 Went quickly
5.  Shoe part
10. Bolivia’s neighbor
14. Yearn
15. Cease-fire
16. Prayer response
17. Baldwin or Guinness
18. Country of origin
20. ____ soup
22. Healthy food
23. Talk amorously
24. Salon employee
26. Luau souvenir
28. School orgs.
30. Narrate
33. Sanctify
37. Linger
39. Power source
40. Pocket fluff
41. Hockey shoe
42. Squad
43. Chip in
44. Scandinavian capital
45. Roosevelt’s nickname
46. Religious dissent
48. Leg part
50. ____ Baba
51. Pain in a hearing organ
56. Card game
58. Flightless bird
62. Trapped
63. Astonishing
66. Pealed
67. Mushroom part
68. Salivate excessively
69. “____ upon a time... ”
70. Pitch
71. Hearty soups
72. DestitutionDown
1. Minor quarrels
2. Aviator
3. Adversary
4. Sticker
5. Maximum
6. ____ and con
7. Golf stroke
8. Canyon feedback
9. Coral formation
10. Companion
11. Very skinny
12. Casino city
13. Take apart
19. Regulation
21. Waiters’ gratuities
25. Chores
27. Please greatly
29. Stem
30. Deli loaf
31. Frog’s kin
32. TV award
33. Uninteresting
34. Fishing string
35. Ways in
36. Hard metal
38. Make amends
41. Kind of bean
45. Gull’s kin
47. Faction
49. Artists’ stands
52. Baseball great Hank ____
53. Long-legged bird
54. Therefore
55. Trimmed the border
56. Essence
57. Fascinated by
59. Gambling term
60. Soil
61. Band instrument
64. Chambers (abbr.)
65. DeepBIKES
Used 2011 Trek Fuel EX 9 - $1600. I am 
selling my amazing bike. I am moving out 
and cannot take it with me. It is highly 
upgraded. It comes with a brand new back 
tire and a brand new front tire not mounted 
yet. Listing ID: 268772414 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
Schwinn Stingray Chopper - $200. 
Complete but needs some restoration. Can 
deliver. Listing ID: 268772411 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
Adult Tricycle/Mountain Trike - $225. 
Unique trike. Probably won’t see one like 
this again. Priced to sell. Firm. Listing ID: 
268772410 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
PETS
African Grey Congo Parrot - $1600. African 
Grey Congo Parrot babies. Presently being hand fed. Can place a deposit to hold 
and then can take home when they are 
weaned and eating regular pellet/seed. 
Tropic Island Bird & Supply, located at 4760 
Voltaire St., San Diego in the Ocean Beach 
neighborhood. Listing ID: 269907389 at 
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Female Husky - $500. One and a half years 
old. Her name is Elsa. She has not been 
spayed. Previous owner did not have 
paperwork. Sweet and friendly. Loves 
going for walks! Has lots of energy. Needs 
a home outside of our apartment. It is too 
small for her and we want what is best 
for her. She does have a microchip. That 
information will be included. Listing ID: 
269059234 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Rottweiler Puppies - $1250. Two months, 
tail docked, veterinarian checked, cur -
rent on vaccinations, certificate included. 
Two beautiful females available. Call or 
text 619-777-6522. Listing ID: 269907184 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
FURNITURE
Adirondack Chair Set - $175. Brand new 
pair of adirondack chairs and side cocktail 
table. Extremely sturdy pine construction 
using 2x4s for the frame structure instead 
of 1x4s. Finished with no rust/corrosion 
deck screws, no nails. Unfinished, but sur -
faces sanded awaiting your paint or stain. 
Listing ID: 269059442 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Large Round Glass Table Set - $400. Seats 
six. Stands 3.5ft high. Listing ID: 269374048 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Computer Desk - $380. All wood. Two piec -
es. Very spacious. Well cleaned. Everything 
inside the desk will be removed. Listing ID: 
269374040 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972La Jolla  
Dental Group  
is looking for two outgoing 
students to help with their 
marketing, preferably one 
male and one female. 
 If interested, please 
email resume to office@
lajolladentalgroup.com
tyour vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 28, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
After being swept in the Crossover 
Classic in Bellingham, Washington, 
the 0.500 UC San Diego women’s 
basketball team looked to get things 
back on track, especially after 
starting the year in such promising 
fashion. In the annual Thanksgiving 
Classic, home court was kind to the 
Tritons, as the team went 2–0 by 
virtue of two blowouts over No. 23 
Saginaw Valley State University and 
Azusa Pacific University last Friday                       
and Saturday.
Game One
Despite the final margin of 
victory being a strong 82–69 in 
UCSD’s favor, the game was fairly 
close in the beginning. The Cardinals 
gave UCSD all it could handle in 
the opening quarter, matching each 
of the Tritons’ scores, causing the 
largest lead by any team all quarter 
to be a meager three points. 
But with the start of the second 
quarter, the Tritons found a new 
burst of energy. With 2:41 left in 
the quarter, senior forward Cassie 
MacLeod drained a shot from 
downtown to give the team a 
12-point lead, the largest for the 
Tritons in the quarter. Unfortunately 
for the Tritons, the Cardinals also 
had a burst of energy waiting in 
the wings as the third quarter 
found Saginaw Valley State slowly 
chipping into the Tritons’ lead. With 
eight seconds left in the quarter, the 
Cardinals battled their way back 
into the game, cutting the deficit to 
just one point. 
The Tritons had none of this. 
After two more tied scores, a jumper by junior guard Paige Song put the 
Tritons up for good, as the team 
ran away with the game, crushing 
the Cardinals with a final score               
of 82–69.
Junior guard Taylor Tanita 
starred with a game-leading 
20 points and five assists, while 
MacLeod and junior guard Dalayna 
Sampton led the team in rebounds 
with 11 and 10 boards, respectively. 
“We’re a team that’s searching 
for ourselves, ” UCSD head coach 
Heidi VanDerveer told the Athletics 
Department.  “But I thought that in 
the second half we had people step 
up. We’re trying to fit some pieces 
in a puzzle. ”
Game Two
The very next day the Tritons 
were at it again. In an afternoon 
matchup against Azusa Pacific, 
UCSD had a significantly easier 
time compared to the previous 
day’s matchup. Thanks to a flurry of 
three-pointers, the team found itself 
up 9–2 thanks to some three-point 
daggers from Song and Tanita. By 
the end of the opening quarter, the 
Tritons found themselves up 28–15 
and on their way to an easy victory.
One of the difference-makers 
wound up being rebounding. 
UCSD furiously outrebounded the 
Cougars by an incredible margin 
of 54–31, allowing the Tritons to 
control the pace of the game. A 
solid contribution from the bench 
didn’t hurt either: The Triton 
bench outscored Azusa Pacific’s by 
14 points, allowing UCSD to have 
a balanced attack and preventing the Cougars from cutting into the 
deficit in any meaningful way.  
By the time the fourth quarter 
rolled around, the game was largely 
decided. The Cougar defense could 
not do anything to to cool the Triton 
offense that shot 41.7 percent from 
downtown for the entire game, as 
the Tritons matched all of Azusa 
Pacific’s 15 fourth-quarter points. 
The Tritons coasted to victory in an 81–60 trouncing. 
Redshirt freshman forward 
Mikayla Williams earned a double-
double off the bench with a game-
high 15 points and 11 rebounds, 
while MacLeod led the team in 
rebounds once again with 14 total 
boards in 23 minutes of play.
UCSD’s prowess was recognized 
at the tournament, as two Tritons 
were named to the five-person All-Tournament team: Tanita and senior 
guard Beth Mounier. Tanita also 
earned the MVP award. 
With the sweep, the Tritons 
improve to 4–2 overall and will head 
off to Cal Poly Pomona on Tuesday, 
Nov. 29.UC San Diego Sweeps the Floor at Home During Annual Thanksgiving Classic 
After a disappointing tournament in Washington, the women’s basketball team redeemed themselves at this past weekend’s 
tournament, beating both Saginaw Valley State University and Azusa Pacific University handily, 82–69 and 81–60, respectively. WOMEN'S  BASKETBALL
BY   A l e x  w U
aSSOCIATE SPORTS EDITOR
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICSAlex  Wu  ADW006@ucsd.eduSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
ROSINA GARCIA
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 28, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
The UC San Diego men’s 
basketball team ended 
its five-game win streak 
against California Baptist 
University last Tuesday, Nov. 22 
at Van Dyne Gym. UCSD beat 
California Baptist in their two 
meetings last year, the last being 
a nail-biting 71–69 win in round 
two of the Division-II NCAA 
West Region Championships. 
This game, unfortunately for the 
Tritons, was not a repeat of last 
year. The game was neck and 
neck until about eight minutes 
left in the second half when the 
Lancers took advantage of a 
couple of turnovers and fouls by 
the Tritons to seal their win. The 
game ended at 76–63, putting the 
No. 22 Tritons at 5–1 and the No. 
5 Lancers at 6–0. 
In general, the Tritons did not play their best game. But it’s not 
because they didn’t fight. They 
gave the Lancers a run for their 
No. 5 ranked status for nearly 
the entirety of the game, but 
ultimately the Lancers pushed 
back a bit harder. The Tritons had 
several opportunities to take the 
lead, as there were several lead 
changes throughout the game, but 
their shooting was off while the 
Lancers’ was not. The Tritons’ 12 
turnovers and 22 personal fouls 
did not help their case either. 
California Baptist’s senior 
guard Michael Smith, who is the 
current PacWest Player of the Year, 
proved to be the main attraction, 
as he scored a whopping 42 points. 
“I honestly don’t look at going off 
on offense, ” Smith explained to 
California Baptist Athletics. “Last game, I didn’t do a very good 
job leading the team or giving 
a good effort. I wanted to come 
into today and lock up UCSD’s 
[senior guard] Adam Klie — who’s 
a great basketball player — and 
give my honest effort, be the best 
competitor on the court. ” 
And lock up Klie, Smith did. 
Klie’s star-player status dimmed a 
little, as he had a mediocre night, 
going only 4-for-13 in field goals 
and turning the ball over four 
times. Sophomore guard Christian 
Oshita was the top-scorer for 
the Tritons with 15 points. He 
also snagged five rebounds and          
two assists. 
The second half solidified the 
Lancers’ win, as they outperformed 
the Tritons in shooting percentage. 
The Tritons performed a measly 11–29 (37.9 percent) in field 
goals and 1–9 (11.1 percent) in 
three-pointers, while the Lancers 
went 12–19 (63.2 percent) in field 
goals and 3–8 (37.5 percent) in        
three-pointers. 
“I was proud of our effort 
tonight, but unfortunately we 
didn’t play well enough to win, ” 
UCSD head coach Eric Olen told 
the UCSD Athletics Department. 
“We’ll take a lot away from this 
game that we can learn from and 
work to improve going forward. ”
Hopefully with full stomachs 
and a week-long break the Tritons 
will look to improve at their next 
game this Tuesday away versus Cal 
Poly Pomona at 7:30 p.m.
PHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE/UCSD GUARDIAN
Tritons End Win Streak at FiveMEN'S  BASKETBALL
The No. 22 Tritons started their season on a roll until they met No. 5 California Baptist University to whom they lost 76–63.
by Rosina Garcia // Sports Editor
Rosina Garcia  rmg008@ucsd,eduReaders can contactUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESW. Basketball
M. Basketball
M. Soccer
W. Basketball
M. Basketball11/29
11/29
12/1
12/1
12/15:30 PM
7:30 PM
9 AM
5:30 PM
7:30 PMAT Cal Poly Pomona
AT Cal Poly Pomona
AT NCAA Championship
VS Chico State
VS Chico State