VOLUME 49, ISSUE 33   TUESDA Y , FEBRUAR Y 16, 2016  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
DEMONSTRATE 
DISSENT
UCSD HAS A LONG HISTORY OF 
SOCIAL ACTIVISIM SPANNING 
FROM THE FIRST STUDENTS 
TO TODAY. THE GUARDIAN 
INVESTIGATED WHAT MAKES 
A GOOD RALLY AND WHAT 
MOVEMENTS FAIL. 
SELECTIVE  REQUIREMENT
WOMEN'S  BASKETBALLWORK SHOPS  FOR  ALL  STUDENTS 
Stellar  wins ;  20-3  record OPINION, P AGE 4
SPORTS,  P age  12
TUESDAY  
H 81 L 57WEDNESDAY
H 72 L 56
THURSDAY  
H 65 L 52FRIDAY  
H 65 L 49
FORECAST
VERBATIM
 IF YOU DECIDE TO HIT IT OFF 
WITH ANYONE, TAKE YOUR 
SHOTS OF VODKA AND DROP 
IT LIKE IT’S HOT – OTHERWISE 
KNOWN AS THROWING IT ON 
THE FLOOR, OR DOWN SOME -
ONE ELSE’S THROAT. ”
 HANDLE YOUR LADY 
LIQUOR
HOW-TO GURU
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
LIGHTS & SIRENS  ............ 3
VOLUNTOURISM .............. 4
BEHIND THE LECTERN .....8
CALENDAR  ...................... 9
M. BASEKTBALL  ............ 11“FEA TURES,  P AGE  6
PHOTO BY CORY WONG/ GUARDIAN
The UC Student Association 
discussed drafting an open letter 
to the UC Office of the President 
regarding its Task Force on 
Preventing and Responding to 
Sexual Violence and Sexual Assault 
at its Board of Directors meetings 
last week. According to The Daily 
Californian, the letter would address 
UC student concerns over the Task 
Force’s lack of communication, 
inadequate membership and 
insufficient resources. 
The Task Force was formed in 
July 2014, after months of UCSD 
student survivors sharing their 
stories with the UC Board of 
Regents and President Napolitano.
“[Of the] 233,000 students enrolled in the University of 
California, roughly 26,830 students 
will experience sexual violence 
during their academic career, most 
of whom will not report or speak 
of their assault, ” according to the 
UCSA website. 
President Napolitano convened 
the Task Force in order to respond to 
and prevent acts of sexual violence 
and assault on UC campuses. The 
Task Force is made up of important 
constituents of the UC System, 
including “UC regents, faculty, 
police and student survivors. ”
However, there have been 
complaints from UC Berkeley and 
student groups over the progress 
made by the Task Force. According 
to a report compiled by the Daily 
Californian, UC Santa Barbara 
junior Jennifer Selvidge said during 
the meetings that the Task Force is not adhering to the concerns 
brought up by students.
“We feel that in the task force, 
student voices and input are not 
currently being effectively included, ” 
Selvidge said.  
UCSA President Kevin Sabo told 
the UCSD Guardian that the UC 
faculty’s unwillingness to participate 
in consent training has been more 
of an obstacle than the Task Force 
itself.
“It’s not so much the Task Force 
that has been problematic, at least 
to the extent that I’m aware, ” Sabo 
said. “I think the biggest concern 
has been [obtaining] funding for the 
consent training that is required of 
faculty; that’s been hugely difficult 
for us to get. The faculty appears very 
resistant by the training [because University 
Creates Joint 
Anti-Poverty 
FederationUC SYSTEM
UC President granted $1.32 
million towards forming the 
coalition from pre-existing 
poverty research centers.
BY   L A U R E N   H O L T
CONTRIBUTING writer
All 10 Blum Centers from each 
UC campus will merge to form the 
Blum Federation, the UC Office of the 
President announced in a press release 
Feb. 8. The Blum Centers conduct 
research on poverty in California. 
The purpose behind the merger 
is to allow campuses to share their 
specialized research, UCOP Media 
Specialist Kate Moser told the 
UCSD Guardian.
“The Blum Federation expands 
the systemwide impact of and 
access to each campus Blum Center 
in the service of fighting poverty 
globally, ” Moser said. “Each Blum 
Center has a unique specialty, and 
coordinating on a systemwide level 
gives UC researchers and students 
across campuses a chance to 
benefit from each other’s expertise 
for new research and education 
opportunities. ”   
In order to develop the resources 
to collaborate across the UC system, 
the UCOP issued a $1.32 million grant 
in seed funding to finance the merger. 
The money is not to be spent 
on base funding for each program, 
UCSD Associate Political Science 
Professor and co-founder of the 
UCSD Blum Center Fonna Forman 
told the Guardian.
“What that money is intended 
to do is to elevate our capacity to 
be a contributor to the Federation, ” 
Forman said. “It is not intended 
to actually infuse support into our 
local programming. ”
Forman also noted that the new 
federation will have an important 
impact on the UCSD Blum Center, 
allowing them to improve their 
research and interactions with more 
university students. 
“It is going to make our research 
better because we will have a 
repository of knowledge that we can 
all draw from, ” Forman stated. “It is 
going to be this amazing networking 
opportunity for students to study 
across the state. ”  
The UCSD Blum Center has a 
transnational specialty. Its main 
project, the “UCSD Cross-Border 
Initiative,” studies the wealth of 
San Diego and the extreme poverty 
across the border in Mexico. 
Forman’s counterpart at the 
UCSD Blum Center, co-founder and 
Visual Arts Professor Teddy Cruz, 
told the Guardian that with this new 
Blum Federation in place, students 
from other campuses will be able to 
come and gain hands-on experience 
with international poverty. 
“The asset that we bring to the 
whole network is that students ASCE Talks Sun God 
Lineup with the Guardian
Associate Vice President of A.S. Concerts and Events 
Christian W alker told the UCSD Guardian that 
the 2016 Sun God Festival may feature a smaller 
number of well-known performers as opposed to a greater 
number of lesser-known artists.
“ A survey that was conducted by a member of A.S. 
Council last quarter about Sun God indicated that students 
were more interested in seeing a smaller amount of bigger 
names at the festival, ” W alker said. “We’re definitely taking 
the approach of booking artists that we see a lot of potential 
in and a lot of value in. ”
W alker emphasized that student opinion has been very 
important and consequential to his office’s direction and 
decisions.
“Every day, we’re checking the responses to our 
entertainment survey, which asks students what genres 
they’re listening to, what specific artists they’re listening to 
and what types of events they’re interested in seeing, ” W alker 
said. “That’s influencing the process of who we reach out to 
and who we decide on. ”
An aspect that will not factor into ASCE’s lineup 
decisions is genre. Instead, the event organizers will evaluate performers based on the culture surrounding their concerts. 
“I don’t know if we’re trying to avoid any genre as much 
as we’re trying to remain educated on the experience the 
audience has at those shows, ” W alker said. “We do a lot of 
research before booking an act to see what is the nature of 
the crowd when this person is playing at another festival. 
That affects the decisions that we make more so than their 
genre. ”
Sun God Festival will take place on Saturday, April 30 
from 12 p.m. to 6 p.m., ASCE announced in a Facebook post 
on Jan. 19. Though some have expressed discontent with the 
event now taking place solely in the daytime, W alker assured 
the Guardian that the organizers intend to maintain what 
students love about the festival while modifying it to fit the 
new time slot.
“We’re confident that a move to a daytime event can 
be done creatively and in a fun way so that it just changes 
the vibe of the event without necessarily feeling like the 
nighttime element was just thrown in the garbage, ” W alker 
said. “We’re currently working to refresh the Sun God brand 
and incorporate elements that really cater to that daytime 
festival aspect. ”B y   JACKY  TO     NEWS EDITORSUN GOD FESTIVAL
UCSA Criticizes UC Sexual Assault Task Force 
Students believe the administration provides insufficient services and transparency.See SUN GOD , page 3
UC STUDENT ASSOCIATION
BY   M A R I O   E S P I N O Z A
Contributing writer
See BLUM , page 2 See LETTER , page 3
Rapper Snoop Dogg performed at last year’s Sun God Festival as the headliner. Photo by Matthias Scheer /UCSD Guardian.from [UC] Berkeley, [UC] Irvine 
or UCLA can come to work in very 
real settings on experiential learning 
by engaging these neighborhoods 
that are definitely very poor and 
disenfranchised,” said Cruz. 
“Instead of sending the students to 
Africa, they can be in some of the 
poorest areas of Latin America in 
the morning doing field work, and 
in the afternoon, they can be back 
in the lab or the classroom. ” 
Other Blum centers also examine 
a variety of interdisciplinary aspects 
when trying to understand poverty, 
UC Irvine Blum Foundation 
Director Richard Matthew explained 
to the Guardian. 
“The campuses take different 
approaches, ” Matthew said. “Some 
focus on poverty in relation to 
health, like UCLA, or poverty 
in relation to engineering and 
innovation, like UC Berkeley. ” 
According to Heather Lofthouse, 
Director of Special Projects at the 
UC Berkeley Blum Center, prior to 
the formation of the collaborative 
Blum Federation, UC Berkeley’s 
program facilitated most of the 
centers’ communication.
“Before we had multiple 
teleconferences each year and 
in-person meetings,” Lofthouse explained to the UCSD Guardian. 
“[The merge] will ensure that we 
have more of those and that we can 
incorporate students into more of 
those meetings. ” 
Cruz explained that this increase 
in communication will not be 
without its challenges. Centers 
might struggle with needing to both 
advance their own research and 
share it with others. 
“Before you collaborate, you 
have to produce the content that you 
want to share, ” Cruz said. “When we 
are struggling to make this project 
actually sustainable on the ground, it 
is difficult to imagine having enough 
energy to also be administering the 
kind of communication that we have 
to have in the network. ”
However, according to Matthew, 
the foundation of the Blum 
Federation created an unprecedented 
level of enthusiasm. 
“I have been in the UC system 
for 17 years, and this is the first time 
that I have seen so much excitement 
and energy about collaborating and 
finding the platform to collaborate, ” 
Matthew said. “It makes me feel very 
much impressed by the potential 
that the UC system has to solve 
some of these real world problems. ”2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBURARY 16, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
BIRDLAND By Rebekah Dyer
THE GREATEST SUMMER OF YOUR LIFE! 
CAMP PONTIAC IS COMING TO UC San Diego!
To set up an interview please 
email Stefanie@camppontiac.com  
or call Stefanie at 516-626-7668. Interviews will be held on 
Friday, February 26th 
10:00 AM – 4:00 PM at 
the Career Services Center.Camp Pontiac, a premier co-ed overnight camp located in 
New York State, is looking for fun, enthusiastic and mature 
individuals who can teach and assist in all areas of athletics, 
aquatics, the arts or as a general bunk counselor.http://www.camppontiac.com
DO YOU TWEET? YAY SO DO WE!
@UCSDGua rdianThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. “It’s just a neighborhood to me.” — Quinn “the 
Communist” Pieper
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Marketing Co-Directors
Peter McInnis, Haley Asturias
Training and Development Manager
Cedric Hyon
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Vincent Pham
Tina Butoiu
Jacky To
Cassia Pollock 
Marcus Thuillier
Allison Kubo
Karly Nisson
Brittney Lu
Olga Golubkova
Jonathan Gao
Megan Lee
Joselynn Ordaz
Sherman Aline
Christina Carlson
Sophia Huang
Jennifer Grundman
Sage Schubert ChristianEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
News Editor
  
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editors
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Sherman Aline, Allison Kubo
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim, Alicia Ho, Aaron Crimmins, Agnus Song
Editorial Assistants
Christian Duarte, Dev Jain, Julie Yip, Josh Lefler, 
Naftali Burakovsky, Sam Velazquez, Quinn Pieper, 
Lisa Chik, Nate WalkerResearchers at UCSD, McGill 
University and the Dana-Farber 
Cancer Institute concluded that 
proteins encoded by a single gene can 
each play distinct roles within the 
human body. The study, published 
in “Cell” on Feb. 11, examines how 
alternative splicing can give rise 
to specific sequences that code for 
functionally different proteins. 
The  discovery provides a potential 
explanation for the complexity of 
organisms whose genomes contain 
relatively few protein-coding genes, 
an understanding that may allow 
researchers to link specific protein 
isoforms to the development of 
certain diseases. 
Protein isoforms are proteins 
that, despite being produced by 
the same gene, have structural 
variations that give rise to distinct 
functions. Shuli Kang, a researcher 
at the University of Southern 
California who completed post-
doc work at UCSD, explained to 
the UCSD Guardian how studying 
these individual protein isoforms 
in detail has revealed a connection between their unique sequences and 
functions.
“Most human genes encode 
multiple isoforms via alternative 
splicing, resulting in 100,000 distinct 
isoforms that could be produced from 
approximately 20,000 protein-coding 
genes, ” Kang said. “It remains largely 
unclear, however, to what extent 
isoforms encoded by a common 
gene have divergent functions at the 
proteome scale. Our results provided 
the first systematic evidence that the 
gene functions can be mediated by 
isoform specific sequences. ”
While each gene is capable of 
producing many proteins with 
significantly divergent roles, some 
of these isoforms are more common 
than others. Previous studies have 
compared the activity of the most 
common isoform produced from 
a single gene to the activities of 
its protein siblings in order to 
understand their specific roles. 
This recent study, however, 
examines individual isoforms in 
terms of their interactions with 
other, non-sibling human proteins. 
David Hill, a researcher at Dana-
Farber, elaborated on their process 
of cloning different isoforms in order to study these interactions.
“We first attempted to clone as 
many isoforms as we could from five 
human tissues for approximately 
1,500 human genes for which we 
already had at least one clone,” 
Hill told the Guardian. “ As a first 
step toward characterizing the 
functional diversity among pairs 
of alternatively spliced isoforms 
encoded by a common gene, we 
decided to concentrate on a set of 
genes representing about 10 percent 
of all human protein-coding genes, 
including genes implicated in 
Mendelian diseases, genes encoding 
proteins known to be involved in 
cell-cycle regulation, or encoding 
proteins that were already known 
to have one or more interacting 
protein partners. We took whatever 
we obtained from the cloning. ”
Shiang added that after cloning 
this large set of protein isoforms, the 
team of researchers analyzed their 
interactions with other proteins in 
order to understand their role in the 
human body. 
Through understanding the roles 
of individual isoforms, scientists 
may be able to associate specific 
protein forms with disease-causing mutations, a discovery that may allow 
them to improve current treatments 
by targeting these mutations. These 
mutations, however, do not always 
result in drastic alterations of a protein’s 
function: While siblings that differ by 
as little as a single mutation in their 
DNA may play vastly different roles, 
others with greater mutations have 
been found to have similar functions.
Hill explains how this 
breakthrough might help fill in 
some blanks in the map of protein 
interactions in the human body while 
also revealing the pathways through 
which diseases occur. 
“Genetic variation leading to 
diseases such as cancer needs to be 
understood in terms of which isoforms 
actually carry the mutation and 
whether they are actually expressed in 
the relevant tissue, ” Hill said. “I expect 
that we will continue to discover that 
different isoforms from genes already 
known to be associated with a specific 
disease will be found to play roles 
in other very distinct diseases or to 
possibly counteract the activity of 
another isoforms of that gene. ”SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
Gene Splicing Produces Proteins With Different Functions
 Conclusions were drawn from a map of interactions between 10 percent of proteins that exist in the human body.
BY   K A R L Y   N I S S O N
STAFF WRITER
KARL Y  N ISSON   KNISSON@ucsd.edureaders can contact
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGsee more atMerger Will Foster Communication and  
Collaboration Between Research Centers 
▶ BLUM,  from page 1
LAUREN HOL T   LCHOLT@ucsd.edureaders can contact
LIKE US ON
 FACEBOOKthey feel] overwhelmed by it. ”
In conjunction with the Task 
Force, a campaign against sexual 
violence and sexual assault was  
initiated, known as UConsent. 
According to the UCSA, the 
campaign “aims to promote 
a culture of consent through 
awareness, education and advocacy 
for improved resources at both the 
campus and state levels. ”
In response to President 
Napolitano’s Task Force, UConsent 
made several demands to the 
UCOP; one of the demands made was for it to fund $420,000 per year 
for in-person consent and bystander 
intervention training and education. 
 UConsent has achieved several 
victories due to its work. According 
to UCSA, two of its successes 
have been in the passage of SB 
697 DeLeon Affirmative Consent 
in 2014 and the passage of AB 695 
DeLeon Sexual Violence Training 
Measure in 2015.
Director of UCSD’s Center for 
Advocacy, Resources, and Education 
at the Sexual Assault Resources 
Center Nancy Wahlig spoke with 
the Guardian over her thoughts on 
UCSD students’ awareness of sexual violence.
“We can tell you that our students 
receive a lot of education about 
sexual violence, and how to prevent 
it, through the work of CARE at 
the Sexual Assault Resource Center, ” 
Wahlig said. “For example, as part 
of orientation, all new students 
were introduced to the resources 
CARE offers. Learning about sexual 
assault and how to report it is now 
mandatory for all incoming UC San 
Diego freshmen and new transfer 
students. ”Furthermore, Walker explained 
that UCSD administrators 
considered discontinuing Sun God 
due to recurring concerns over the 
health and safety of students at the 
event. According to a UCSD Police 
Department report released last May, 
66 students were admitted detox, nine 
were sent to the hospital and five were 
arrested for drug-related incidents 
during the weekend of last year’s 
festival. Additionally, UCSD’s Office 
of Student Conduct reported in Sept. 
that 60 percent of student incidents 
resulted in admission to the campus’ 
Detox Center, a 13 percent rise from 
the previous year.
“There was a concern that the 
health and safety numbers hadn’t 
improved significantly enough 
from the previous year in order for 
administrators and student planners 
to confidently move forward with the 
event in the same structure, ” W alker 
said. “It took some negotiating on our 
part to see if we could create a model 
of Sun God that we were confident 
would address some of the health and safety concerns from this past festival 
but that also still appealed to students 
and was still in the best interest of what 
students wanted the event to be. ”
Revelle College sophomore Aaron 
Cintron told the Guardian that due to 
the increasing safety measures added 
to the Sun God Festival, the enthusiasm 
for the event has weakened.
“I feel like no one’s really excited 
for [Sun God], ” Cintron said. “They’re 
taking all of the fun out of it and not 
really allowing us to be responsible 
… I feel like it would be a lot better if 
they would relax and let students make 
their own decisions. ”
Walker argues, however, that 
though the usefulness of the safety 
measures may not be visible yet, they 
will have a better chance of having 
positive ramifications with new 
generations of students.
“ A lot of these large, structural 
health and safety changes that have 
taken place at the festival over the past 
few years haven’t had time to truly 
affect the culture of the event because 
culture take a lot longer to change 
than just an event, ” W alker said. “This 
year, we’ll see a full year of students who have graduated out with a past 
understanding of the culture of the 
event and a new freshman class that 
will learn what the event is this year. ”
Walker even pointed out 
that student welfare has shown 
improvement this year, which 
contributed to the decision to continue 
the festival. This includes “a significant 
decrease in alcohol incidents at this 
year’s [Hullabaloo] compared to 
previous years, ” according to ASCE’s 
Jan. 19 Sun God announcement on 
Facebook. 
“ As far as health and safety numbers 
go, having such a successful fall quarter 
in general has boded very well for the 
festival, ” W alker said. “We’ve seen the 
culture around large-scale events really 
starting to realign with our goals. ”
Students can voice their opinions to 
ASCE by filling out its entertainment 
survey at studentvoice.com/ucsd/
asceentertainment1516 or by attending 
its open meetings, which take place 
every Monday at 4 p.m. on the fourth 
floor of Price Center East.NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBURARY 16, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
LIGHTS & SIRENSLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edu.University Discussed Cancelling Sun God Due to Safety Concerns
Sabo: Funding Has Been Difficult to Acquire for Consent Training▶ SUN GOD,  from page 1
▶ LETTER ,  from page 1JACKY  TO  J6TO@UCSD.EDU
Mario velasquez  mae001@UCSD.EDU
Monday, February 8
7:00 a.m. - 7:10 a.m. Petty Theft.
Unknown suspect(s) entered a 
secured study room and removed 
victim’s backpack, loss $395.00. 
Report taken.
10:03 a.m. Injury.
Male fell getting off shuttle and hurt 
ankle. Report taken.
2:02 p.m. Fraud.
Report of unknown suspect(s) 
fraudulently obtaining and using 
victim’s credit card information, loss 
$600.00. Report taken.
8:35 p.m. Disturbance.
Group doing photoshoot with 
muscle cars, vehicles driving fast 
around parking structure and people 
smoking. Checks OK. 
9:24 p.m. Suspicious person.
Elderly male harassing patrons. 
Report taken.
10:10 p.m. Medical Aid.
Excessive drug intake, report of 
adult male passed out inside vehicle. 
Transported to hospital.
11:26 p.m. Information.
Resident Assistant’s key card not 
working.  Information only.
Tuesday, February 9
12:07 a.m. Information.
Loud popping sounds. 
Information only.
12:28 a.m. Non Injury Collision.Vehicle parked up right against 
reporting party’s vehicle, no damage 
found. Service provided.
2:58 a.m. Assist Other Agency.
San Diego Police arrested petty 
theft suspect in possession of UCSD 
affiliates property. Service provided.
6:34 a.m. Fire.
Per garbage truck driver, fire caused 
by cigarette inside of trash bag, no 
injuries. Service provided.
10:42 a.m. Disturbance.
Male motorist upset because his 
vehicle has a boot, yelling and making 
hand gestures at other people.  Gone 
on arrival.
12:11 a.m. Citizen Flag Down.
Preserve the peace request for boot 
removal from vehicle. 
Service provided.
5:03 p.m. Drunk driving.
Motorist driving erratically. Unable 
to locate.
10:40 p.m. Information.
W ater detection alert in basement. 
Referred to other UCSD department. 
11:00 a.m. - 1:15 p.m. Vandalism.
Custodian keeps finding burnt 
paper towels and toilet paper inside 
toilet and on floor of restroom. 
Online report. 
 
— KARLY NISSON
Staff Writer
SURVEY
asce.ucsd .eduTake the ASCE En tertainment Sur vey.
Give input on wh at kind of events, music 
genres, and arti sts you want to see. This 
survey determines wh at arti sts ASCE 
selects for Sun God Festival, Hullabalo o, 
and other concerts th roughout the year. Make sure your
voice is hea rd! 
For que stions, contact avpconcerts@ucsd .edu.http://studentvoice.com/ucsd/asceentertainment15164  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBURARY 16, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CASSIA POLLOCK
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
See INCLUSION , page 5After the annual Greek Life Excel Leadership Conference, it is worth considering 
whether this requirement should be extended to the entire student body at UCSD.BY EMILY  COLLINS // STAFF WRITER
On a bright and early morning on Feb. 7, all students involved 
in Greek life at UCSD were required to attend a three-hour Greek 
Life Excel Leadership Conference, covering topics such as diversity, 
inclusion, accountability and leadership. However, by requiring 
all Greek life-associated students to attend — whereas in other 
student organizations, only principal members must attend — the 
conference implied that the only students responsible for a lack 
of diversity and inclusion on campus are those affiliated with a 
fraternity or sorority. Other individuals in the rest of the student 
body, however, should be educated about these issues as well. 
Moreover, these conferences have little impact on the school’s 
actual problems of inclusivity. While it is important to hold the 
Greek community accountable, the rest of the student body should 
also participate in these lessons. The requirement for students in 
Greek life to attend various diversity conferences throughout the 
year, then, should also be expected of the rest of the student body, 
and the method by which diversity is taught must be addressed as 
well. The only other individuals required to go to a separate Excel 
meeting are principal members of other organizations, but not the general student members. If these requirements are beneficial for 
promoting a better campus climate within the Greek community, 
then it makes sense to have non-affiliated students also attend 
diversity workshops.
While it is important to increase diversity and racial sensitivity 
in the Greek community, there are a substantial amount of 
requirements already in place that should also apply to the rest of 
the student population. Greek 101 meetings are required annually 
in order for students to remain a part of their fraternity or sorority. 
The meetings, according to UCSD’s Greek Life Annual Report, 
typically cover issues such as alcohol awareness, hazing prevention 
and sexual assault. Excel Leadership covers related topics. For Excel, 
if 75 percent of a chapter does not attend annually, the chapter can 
be shut down and unable to participate in any Greek activities. 
Nevertheless, the school’s current education conferences and 
programs, even if they were required for all students, fail to be 
the most effective way in educating students about topics such as 
diversity and accountability. Whether at Greek 101, Excel or any 
other generic “educational” conference, one glance around the room 
QUICK TAKESAS COLLEGES ARE CONSIDERING DIFFERENT CRITERIA FOR ADMISSIONS, DEBATES HAVE CENTERED AROUND THE 
MERIT OF COMMUNITY SERVICE AND TEST SCORES. SOME DEEM VOLUNTEER REQUIREMENTS “VOLUNTOURISM.”How-To 
Guru: 
Hold Your
Lady Liquor
After the Center for Disease 
Control recently released a new 
infographic saying that pregnant 
women shouldn’t drink, it added 
a bonus section for non-pregnant 
women. The infographic has been 
kind enough to inform women 
that drinking can cause heart 
disease, cancer, violence, STDs 
and pregnancy (don’t worry, men, 
you’re still safe). Apparently, having 
more than eight drinks a week puts 
women at risk for any of those, so 
here’s your guide on how to drink as 
a woman, from the How-To Guru. 
As for any men reading this 
column, drop this newspaper and 
step away. This is for women. Can’t 
you read? Don’t touch anything 
with your filthy, womanizing hands. 
It goes without saying that as 
soon as men consume one drop of 
alcohol they have zero inhibitions 
whatsoever. In fact, dealing with 
men is a waste of time. They’re a 
bunch of animals, who only want 
one thing from a lady.
With that in mind, the ultimate 
key for the happiness of any woman 
is marriage and a house full of 
healthy babies. So at the end of the 
day, it’s best to not ever drink in 
this lifetime. That’s why I’ d like to 
present women with some handy-
dandy tips for shielding their 
wombs from the devilish influences 
of alcohol and men. 
First off, only drink with a 
bodyguard present at all times. I 
know, I know, having to go out 
drinking with a bodyguard holding 
your hand can be a real drag, but 
this is for your safety. Don’t take 
other girls, of course, since they’re 
just as susceptible to that eight-
drink limit as you are. No, what 
you need is a man. That way, he can 
drain any drinks over that eight-a-
week limit, and the best part is that 
he won’t get impregnated by them. 
In fact, you should probably ask 
him to drink for you, knowing that 
alcohol could destroy your delicate 
body and the flowery pureness of 
your virginity.
This bodyguard shouldn’t be 
just any man. He should be a 
professional bodyguard with a 
certified black belt in Aikido and 
an FBI background check verifying 
his credentials. Secondly, if you 
happen to get laid at any point in 
your life, always use protection. In 
fact, it’s best to use two or three 
condoms at once in order to prevent 
any of those pesky alcohol-related 
pregnancies and STDs.
As the CDC thoughtfully 
reminds us, sexually active women 
should not drink any alcohol 
whatsoever. So if you decide to 
hit it off with anyone, take your 
shots of vodka and drop it like 
it’s hot — otherwise known as 
throwing it on the floor, or down 
someone else’s throat. Whenever 
you find yourself with a drink in 
your weak, womanly hands, simply 
bat your eyes at a potential suitor 
and gently ask him, “Will you assist 
me in drinking this shot, my good 
sir?” That will solve the problem 
instantly, and men will soon wield 
fistfuls of wedding rings and 
profess their undying love for you.ILLUSTRA TION   B Y  CHRISTINA  CARLSON
Voluntourism Creates Artificial 
Sense of  Philanthropy in StudentsVolunteer Work Allows Students to 
Make Useful Global ContributionsColleges Should Value Test Scores 
Equally to Community Service
Competition for college admission has 
become incredibly difficult. More and more, 
students are looking for those little edges that 
will distinguish them from the crowd of high-
achieving applicants, and lately, that edge has 
come in the form of voluntourism: volunteering 
while travelling abroad. But in recent years, a 
wide range of organizations have appeared to 
cater to the commercialized demand of privileged 
first-world inhabitants for the “life-changing” 
experience of “saving” third-world inhabitants. 
While the altruism and dedication of students to 
global causes is hard to criticize, voluntourism 
is not a good method for showcasing a student’s 
involvement in a community.
One of the biggest problems with 
voluntourism, besides the assumed economic 
privilege of participants who can fly off to 
Somalia for a week to hug orphans, is whether 
it is even effective aid. The catering of the 
voluntourism industry to first-world volunteers’ 
“savior” complex hinders actual efforts to 
alleviate poverty. As a blogger for the Huffington 
Post wrote, during her school trip to Africa to 
build a library for an orphanage, the work of 
the unskilled volunteers was taken apart each 
evening and redone by local laborers without 
their knowledge. Similarly, voluntourism fosters 
an incomplete understanding of global issues in 
favor of simplistic imaginings of the suffering 
of the poor “other, ” as was explained in an Al 
Jazeera America article.
A better gauge of a student’s involvement 
in the community is local volunteering. In 
helping at local shelters or building houses for 
the disadvantaged here, students gain a deeper 
understanding of the complexities of poverty.
     — SOPHIE OSBORN                               
Senior Staff WriterVolunteering in another country is an essential 
step in opening a person’s mind and a critical 
way in which people broaden their worldview. 
While it is true that certain people will take a 
touristy vacation and call it a “volunteering” and 
“learning” experience, this does not diminish 
the experiences and uniqueness that genuine 
international volunteering brings. Students who 
volunteer abroad are far more valuable to possible 
employers or colleges. According to statistics 
from UC Merced, 97 percent of college students 
who studied abroad found employment within 
12 months of graduation compared to 49 percent 
of students who did not. In addition, the vast 
majority of travelers undergo exceptional personal 
development when exposed to an entirely 
different culture, an important aspect of any well-
rounded person.
There are concerns that traveling abroad is 
not immediately accessible to everyone given 
their socioeconomic status; however, there is a 
large number of organizations that provide free 
travel-abroad opportunities. The Peace Corps, 
established over 50 years ago, has sent over 
220,000 volunteers to more than 140 countries 
with no personal cost to the volunteer, according 
to the Peace Corps website. Other programs 
such as Habitat for Humanity and Amigos de 
Las Americas also offer no-cost international 
programs for applicants.
There will always be people who cheat 
the system to their benefit, but we must focus 
on the important work that international 
volunteers accomplish and learn to distinguish 
between social media “voluntourism” and the 
achievements that genuine volunteering bring to 
the world.
                                 — NATE WALKER                               
Staff WriterRecently, the Harvard Graduate School of 
Education project “Making Caring Common” 
released reports suggesting that high school 
students should take fewer Advanced Placement 
courses, colleges should make the SAT/ACT 
optional and all students should be required to 
provide “more meaningful contributions to others. ” 
Although well-intentioned, colleges that require 
mandatory volunteering are promoting pseudo-
compassion and self-service, and de-emphasis of 
standardized tests would not minimize the role of 
test scores as a criterion for admission.
Requiring volunteer work turns something 
essential, like fostering citizenship in young adults, 
into a resume builder — yet another obligation on 
top of all the activities that students are expected 
to squeeze into their tight schedules. Colleges 
need to prioritize the importance of impact, not 
a noblesse oblige and a list of hours spent in a 
developing country.
Furthermore, as long as schools continue 
offering A.P . classes, and SAT/ACT scores are still 
accepted by colleges, students will continue to take 
them and perform well. Therefore, all students 
must meet the same expectation. Those who fall 
behind are neither competitive applicants nor 
prepared for the rigor of college classes. In fact, 
according to the National Association of College 
Admission Counseling, one-fifth of colleges use 
test scores as a “threshold” for admission, and, 
as stated by The Princeton Review, many more 
use informal cutoffs. A truly equal emphasis on 
philanthropy and academics would be ideal, but 
for now, it seems that students must bear the 
burden of excelling in everything they do, and, of 
course, having a boisterous social life and eight 
hours of sleep.
                                 — AARTHI VENKAT                               
Staff WriterDIVERSITY 
  FOR  ALLOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBURARY 16, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
reveals a scene of students on their 
phones, doing homework, talking 
with each other or sleeping. Since 
these conferences are mandatory, 
students typically only attend for 
this reason rather than to be open-
minded and learn. Once the speaker 
leaves the stage, the room empties 
faster than beer cans at a frat party — 
which, to say, is very fast. Most of the 
content is very repetitive and is taught 
both via online required programs 
(GreekLifeEdu) and at conferences. 
The repetition causes the concepts to 
lose their value. The word “diversity” 
itself becomes, in the process, 
“nothing more than an empty slogan, ” 
as stated by the San Diego Free 
Press. The school needs to produce a 
more effective way than this general 
education requirement to combat a 
lack of diversity.
The first question that then comes 
up in addressing the school’s diversity 
problem is identifying the culprits. 
One of the school’s prime examples of a fraternity diversity controversy 
is the Compton Cookout, a “ghetto-
themed” party held by Pi Kappa 
Alpha fraternity (commonly known 
as Pike) in 2010. According to the Los 
Angeles Times, the party invitation 
included many racist stereotypes and 
recommended that girls use gold 
teeth, wear cheap clothes and start 
fights. The menu promised chicken 
and watermelon. Problems with 
Greek life party themes in the past 
have related to cultural sensitivity — a 
topic now heavily discussed at events 
such as Greek 101 and Excel. While 
the Greek community should take 
responsibility for this event, it’s also 
reflective of the student body at large. 
The Compton Cookout 
demonstrates that there is an issue 
with racial awareness in the Greek 
community, but it is not limited 
to their exclusive organizations. 
This university has a lack of racial 
diversity in general which needs to 
be addressed. For example, in 2015, 
the amount of minority groups 
admitted was only two percent for African-Americans and three percent 
for Latinos. On the other hand, the 
amount of Asians admitted were 46 
percent and the amount of white 
students admitted were 21 percent. 
Instead of promoting diversity with 
workshops, the admissions team 
should make feasible changes to the 
student body.
Students in fraternities and 
sororities are already required 
to attend various informational 
meetings on these topics, yet issues 
in diversity and inclusion are still 
strongly present on campus. Not 
only should other students be 
required to learn about diversity, 
but the programs used to teach 
these concepts must be radically 
changed in order for any drastic 
improvements to appear on campus. 
Whether that means developing 
hands-on programs or further 
diversifying the student body, it is 
ultimately the school’s decision.
artpower.ucsd.edu  | 858.534.TIXS (8497)Harlem Quartet
PROGRAM
BEETHOVEN  String Quartet No. 4 in C Minor
MENDELSSOHN  String Quartet in E Minor, Op 44, No. 2
DIZZY GILLESPIE  Night in T unisia
RAFAEL HERNÁNDEZ MARÍN  El Cumbanchero  
Friday, February 19, at 8 pm
Department of Music’s Conrad Prebys Concert Hall
Tickets: $36–54; $12 UCSD Student“a new attitude to classical music, one that is fresh, bracing,  
and intelligent” —Cincinnati Enquirer
Dr. Terranova, Dr. Sherman, and Dr. Horne
TORREY PINES
DENTAL ARTS
We welcome UCSD Staff & Students
Richard L Sherman DDS
Steven B. Horne DDS
Scripps/Ximed Medical Center
9850 Genessee Avenue #720
La Jolla, CA 92037
858-453-5525
Info@TorreyPinesDentalArts.com
www.TorreyPinesDentalArts.com'"! $! $
$""
'"	!# !
'%""!
 !
'
!&!! #!
 " !! "	!
"	#!
Karmonize.org  is a student organization
where we can support good causes,
cooperate, and volunteer to
improve the UCSD community.HELP OTHERS, FIND HELP
WHEN YOU NEED IT, AND
MAKE KARMA REAL!
Entire Student Body at UCSD Should Participate in Diversity Requirements
▶ INCLUSION  from page 4
EMIL Y  COLLINS EACOLLIN@ucsd.edu
GOT ISSUES?
SEND YOUR 
LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIKE US ON
 FACEBOOKWORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBURARY 16, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
ALLISON  KUBO
features@ucsdguardian.org
The Art ofProtest
by Matthew Zamudio  // Staff Writer
PHOTO BY CORY WONG // UCSD GUARDIAN
Build the university, and the protesters will come. Since the inception of UCSD in 1960, a 
“culture of protest” has prevailed on campus as students continue to openly exercise their right 
to free speech and peaceful assembly. 
On Thursday, Feb. 4, a group of Armenian students staged 
a sit-in protest in front of the Silent Tree, where they wore 
red tape across their mouths that read “Denial, ” referring to 
the United States’ negligent attitude toward the Armenian genocide 
of 1915. The students, who have voiced their opinions on the matter 
in the past, decided that silence was perhaps louder than sound in 
their case. They figured that if the dead can’t speak, they shouldn’t 
either. A few days later, articles began popping up on the Internet 
and in print detailing the focus of their protest. Awareness grew like 
a slow-burning wildfire. Their message had not only been heard, it 
had been shared. 
Like many protesters before them, these students used their First 
Amendment rights to make a public stand for something they strongly 
support and believe in. After identifying the problem, they organized 
their assets and formed a plan that would define the way in which 
they’ d go about broadcasting their cause. In this case, their efforts were 
successful, adding their protest at the Silent Tree to a long list of highly 
effective protests performed on our campus since its establishment in 
1960. Our track record of social movements includes such memorable 
protests like the recent abortion rights demonstrations, the Black 
Student Union’s protests across campus and, in 1970, George Winne 
Jr.’s  acts against U.S. involvement in the Vietnam War, in which he 
set himself ablaze at Revelle Plaza, resulting in his death. At UCSD, it 
appears we are well-versed in the art of protest.
But how, exactly, do you make sure that your protest will succeed 
in achieving its ultimate goal? How does one stage an effective protest? 
While it often seems that protests end in blurry resolutions, there is 
always a winner and a loser when all’s said and done. Stephen Meyers, 
professor of sociology at University of Washington, Seattle, and 
former UCSD instructor, has made a living of trying to understand 
the art of protesting. He believes it is imperative that individuals and 
organizations be prepared for their anarchic moment in the limelight. 
“Protests are most effective when all of the players are on the same 
page and stick to a single message, ” Meyers told the UCSD Guardian. 
“This fact, however, means that diversity is sacrificed for unity. 
Participants may have very different reasons for protesting, but their 
specific issues and interests are ignored. ”
As the breadth of an issue widens, the amount of neglected 
sub-issues increases commensurately. The hope is that, in making 
these bittersweet sacrifices, the prevalent issues will garner enough 
recognition to address those that have taken a proverbial backseat. By 
taking these details into account, the organizers of protests can design 
a social movement that has the greatest potential to invoke change. 
The Million Student March, which took place last November on 
campus, is an example of demonstrators struggling to unite under one 
compelling cause. With a protester turnout best described as “dismal, ” 
the march consisted of about 100 students carrying homemade signs 
and chanting inaudibly. The issues at hand were said to be tuition, 
student debt and minimum wage, but students also advocated for the 
Black Lives Matter movement and for the Bernie Sanders’ campaign.
Ineffective protesting is the natural result of disorganization and a lack of consensus, but as Ivan Evans, professor of sociology and 
Provost of Eleanor Roosevelt College, described to the Guardian, 
“protest[s] that appear to fall short of [their] mark in the short term 
may still contribute to a ‘culture of protest’ that might later succeed 
in advancing the aims of protesters … Still, protest is least effective 
when protesters misread their audiences or the strategic spaces they 
operate in. ”
Ending apartheid in South Africa, Evans noted, is one historical 
instance when the protesting body initially got it wrong. The 
marginalized Africans of the country employed Mahatma Gandhi’s 
strategy of passive resistance and Martin Luther King Jr. ’s strategy of 
nonviolent civil disobedience, which became famous during the civil 
rights movement. 
“When the Apartheid state responded with bullets and massacres, ” 
Evans said. “Blacks abandoned these tactics, went underground and 
adopted the language of ‘armed struggle. ’”
From ineffective protests, sociologists like Evans and Meyers 
can gather valuable information on what works and what doesn’t. 
Experienced protesters also pay close attention to the climate so 
they can draw on techniques that could aid their demonstration. 
Over time, a sort of registry of effective and ineffective protesting 
tactics accumulates throughout history, though each must be 
refined and tweaked to address the unique issue. Still, there exist a 
few protesting mainstays.
“Silent sit-ins, rowdy demonstrations, occupying the spaces that 
dominant power control, letter-writing campaigns, etc. have been the 
hallmarks of protest culture, ” Evans said.
March 2015 saw the beginning of yet another protest on campus: 
supporters of the C.H.E. Cafe demonstrated outside of the Cafe after 
receiving an eviction notice from the administration. Since 1980, the 
university has been trying to remove the C.H.E. Cafe, a community 
center, co-op and music venue, from its place in the densely wooded 
outskirts of Revelle College. This time, like many times before, 
members of the C.H.E. Cafe Collective refused to leave their beloved 
base and banded together in a movement to “Save The C.H.E.!” Their 
tactic was simple: to occupy the edifice until the administration took 
notice of their opposition. Lane Barlow, an insider at the C.H.E. Cafe, 
told the Guardian about their stakeout. 
“The occupation was about more than just refusing to leave, ”  
Barlow said. “Through continued programming and media exposure, 
the collective maintained and increased its visibility. During this time, 
we made fairly regular press releases and tabled on Library Walk 
as often as we could. We touched up some of our murals with their 
original creator, Mario Torero, and we took many other measures to 
remind people that we were still here and still fighting. ”
In the end their efforts paid off, and Chancellor Khosla agreed 
to negotiate with the Collective over terms for a new Master Space 
Agreement. Currently, the Collective is working with the Food Co-op, 
G-store and Groundwork Books to win terms which will preserve 
campus co-ops like the C.H.E. Cafe for generations of students to 
come. In the meantime the C.H.E. Cafe continues to facilitate weekly 
See PICKET , page 8FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBURARY 16, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
FRIDAY,  
FEBRUARY  19 INSTITUTE OF THE AMERICAS  10:00AM - 
3:30PM  CONFERENCE  
· ENTERTAINMENT BY UCSD’S ASAYAKE TAIKO · INSPIRATIONAL  
SPEAKERS · OPPORTUNITY FAIR · RAFFLE DRAWING · ORGANIC 
LUNCH ·  UNDERGRADUATE STUDENT PRESENTATIONS   
FREE AND OPEN TO THE PUBLIC, BUT REGISTER NOW 
BEFORE ALL SPOTS FILL  
ucsdcrassh2016.eventbrite.com  Conference for Research in the Arts, Social Sciences and Humanities (CRASSH)  
For more information please contact Candace Wo: chwo@ucsd.edu  8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBURARY 16, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
Making 
History 
More 
Present
Professor Deborah Hertz is not 
just a lecturer, she is a teacher who 
engages her students to appreciate 
and think critically about history. 
Her office is lined with books 
on German, Jewish and modern 
European history. The only gap 
in her office is a space for her 
desk, which just so happens to be 
outlined with tomes as well. The 
UCSD Guardian sat down to speak 
with Professor Hertz to further 
explore her passionate and effective 
teaching style.
“The people who are academics 
usually love the big themes. 
‘What is capitalism? What is 
colonialism?, ’” Hertz told the 
Guardian. “You go to an academic 
conference, often that’s what you 
hear, but that’s not how most 
students and most people who 
are not professional academics 
approach history. ”
Hertz believes that focusing on 
the macrohistory is not necessarily 
the best way to teach students. 
Many history courses are like 
“a thin gruel of coverage, ” flatly 
moving from one event to the next. 
“I find it easier to absorb 
history usually through novels, 
biographies [and] movies, ” Hertz 
said. “I think that when you read 
an academic book, that is an 
overview book, like a textbook, you 
immediately become bored because 
your ignorance is so great that you 
can’t read for detail. You just feel 
overwhelmed. ”
Hertz takes a different approach 
than your regular history professor, 
focusing on the microhistory 
instead and giving voices to 
important figures of the past. She 
argues that students don’t always 
retain as much information when 
given an overview of main events, 
and that this approach lacks the 
personalization of history.
“It doesn’t have people in it, 
it doesn’t have the dark side, the 
inner story, ” Hertz said.
Professor Hertz is currently 
working on a book about radical 
Jewish women who challenged the 
status quo during their respective 
time periods. 
“It’s the book I was really, really 
meant to write, ” Hertz stated. “The 
other books were kind of practice 
for this one. ”  
The book begins in the late 
19th century with the birth of the 
firebrand women who worked to 
instigate change by radical action.  
“I always try to have specific 
individuals; you can tell from 
my lectures, I’m a big believer in 
biography and incorporating it into 
history, ” Hertz said.
Professor Hertz’s ability to 
personalize history combined with 
her passion for teaching creates 
a learning environment in which 
students can engage with, indulge in 
and most importantly, enjoy history.Noam   Leead
nleead@ucsd.eduBehind the  Lecturn
movie nights, yoga and concerts. 
“The occupation of the Che [Cafe] 
was successful because it was both 
persistent and obstructive, ” Barlow 
explained. “The administration was 
waiting for the occupation and other 
modes of protest to peter out, and 
our efforts would have accomplished 
nothing if we [had] let that happen”
It’s clear that if protest is conducted 
intelligently and persistently, positive 
results will follow. Even when a given 
protest does not succeed in achieving 
its goal, it still serves to open the door for future protests which are more 
likely to emerge victorious. Still, the 
question of why this is true looms 
over both the protester and they 
who are protested against. There’s 
something special about protesting 
in the sense that it’s able to produce 
results only after every other option 
has been expended. Evans told the 
Guardian why he believes the social 
phenomenon is so powerful. 
“Protest is effective because it rocks 
the boat, ” Evans said. “Protest makes 
visible those voices that are usually 
ignored or dismissed. It projects those 
voices into the public sphere and compels dominant authorities to listen 
up and respond. Protest therefore 
transforms private grievances into 
disruptive public spectacles that 
cannot be ignored. ”
Evans contends that it isn’t 
in  human nature to protest. It is 
human nature to acquiesce. During 
our lifetimes we are constantly 
giving up power and consent with 
the understanding that we will be 
respected and taken care of in turn. 
But this consent is conditional. When 
we either calculate that our submission 
to authority is no longer worthwhile, 
or that the ruling groups seem to have lost their moral compass, subordinate 
groups withdraw their consent. The 
result is protest, insurrection and 
rebellion, according to Evans. 
Say we attain utopia, though. At 
that point in time, we can assume that 
people will no longer have reason or 
time to protest.
The question then becomes: Will 
people ever stop protesting? Meyer’s 
response seems to sum it up nicely. 
“No. ”Students often have little other 
choice than to sit in a dimly lit 
room with a single window that 
doesn’t open, doing homework or 
writing essays, hardly ever seeing the 
light of day. Slowly, they begin to lose 
the hard-earned tan they acquired 
over the summer. Occasionally, they 
might step outside and just stand 
in the doorway for a minute or 
two, taking in as much fresh air as 
they have time for before having to 
go back inside. It’s a grim routine, 
especially irritating due to the fact 
that many students are missing out 
on all the sunshine San Diego has to 
offer. Thankfully, there’s soon to be a 
solution, and it’s called Solar Chill.
Solar Chill is a student led project 
that began in 2013 as the brainchild 
of Engineers for a Sustainable World, 
a UCSD organization that focuses on 
sustainability through technology. 
The project’s goal is to create spaces 
around the UCSD campus where 
students can relax or do homework, 
while also being able to recharge 
their electronics using a 1.5 kilowatt 
off-grid solar panel. Solar Chill 
sites will also provide two benches 
comprised of local rocks enclosed in 
wire mesh, topped with reclaimed 
Torrey Pinewood. Finally, we can sit 
and browse Facebook while getting 
some Vitamin D.
Eleanor Roosevelt College junior Alexander Han, the electrical 
lead for the project, explained 
why UCSD is the perfect place to 
implement solar panels. 
“One goal is to be able to utilize 
the power of the sun, because here in 
San Diego we get so much sunlight 
compared to the rest of the country, ” 
Han said. 
The first Solar Chill site will 
be located between ERC and the 
Village, right next to the bus stop.
 “We’re getting very close to 
implementing it, ” Han said. “ As of 
now, we expect the construction to 
start in early March. ”  
 There is certainly something 
special about Solar Chill, in both 
the dedication and drive behind the 
project as well as the fact that the 
entire team is comprised of students.
In fact, Solar Chill will be the first 
student-designed project ever built 
on campus. The site located in ERC 
will act as a beta test that the team 
will present to the Vice Chancellor 
for Resource Management and 
Planning, Gary Matthews. Warren 
College Junior Josh Hill,  the project 
lead aims receive Matthew’s “OK” 
to carry out the next version of the 
photovoltaic cells. 
Hill hopes that Solar Chill sites 
will eventually become an integral 
part of our campus landscape. 
“My ultimate fantasy would be for anywhere you see a bench on 
campus you could instead put a 
Solar Chill Site, ” Hill said.  
Sixth College senior Victoria 
Santos is the Outreach and Finance 
lead for Solar Chill, and makes sure 
that companies, engineers, other 
universities and media outlets are 
aware of what Solar Chill is doing for 
UCSD. Like the other members of 
the team, her work is also born out of 
a profound interest in sustainability 
and a desire to create change. 
“My job is more than just 
broadcasting what Solar Chill is 
about, but making sure our team is 
staying passionate about what we are 
aiming for and how we can express 
that passion, ” Santos said. “Our 
main idea is that it’s designed by the 
students rather than just purchased 
… students are capable of anything 
that they put their minds to. It’s 
about making more of a lasting 
impact rather than just temporary. ” 
Santos also stresses the harsh 
reality that our generation faces as 
we deplete our current resources. 
“We need to become sustainable 
with what we have, ” Santos said. 
This message becomes 
increasingly poignant as college 
students like the ones on the Solar 
Chill team inherit the responsibility 
of taking care of the environment.  
Nowadays, every effort to increase efficiency is a vital contribution. 
This is why, on a larger scale, 
projects like Solar Chill are 
becoming increasingly important in 
today’s world. 
The passion and innovative drive 
is unmistakable in the members of 
the Solar Chill team. Many working 
on the project, such as Hill, were 
invested in environmental science at 
an early age.
“I was always that kid who would 
run back in and turn the lights off, ” 
Hill said.
As long as the passion for 
innovation remains inherent in 
the Solar Chill project, it will be 
a clear success. UCSD students 
should be on the lookout in 
the coming months for Solar 
Chill’s photovoltaic structures 
around campus. Students should 
take something from the larger 
implications of what the Solar Chill 
team has achieved, its members 
demonstrate the impact that a 
group of college students can 
make almost entirely on their own. 
Thanks to student innovation and 
photovoltaic cells, the sun that San 
Diego is famous for will soon be 
powering your iPhone.  
The Social Phenomenon of  Protests Are A Natural Response T o Society , Evans Says 
▶ PICKET,  from page 6
FOLLOW   US   ON   TWITTER  Charge   with   
Solar    Chill
by Harrison Lee  // Contributing Writer
Illustration by Christina Carlson
Harrison   Lee   hhl032@UCsdedu      READER CAN CONTACT
Ma tthew Zamudio    mzamudi@UCsdedu      READER CAN CONTACT
@UCSDGUARDIAN
Engineers for a Sustainable World  aims to install the first student developed structure on campus, a rest area to charge 
phones. The UCSD Guardian sat down with ESW to understand the envrionmental impetus behind the solar cells.CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBURARY 16, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
 JOSHUA DAVIS W/ CRAIG MARKER
THE LOFT • PC EASTSUNDAY 2.21 • 8pmTahrirCAMPUS
CALENDAR
FEB 16 - FEB 212016 POWERED BY THE CHANCELLOR’S OFFICE AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guardian
Calenda r
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdg uardian.orgTHU 2.18 WED 2.17
10am
MEDITATION- THE ZONE
Join us for a guided meditation where you can: Gain 
greater mental clarity, Achieve a peaceful state of 
being, Learn techniques to de-stress, Achieve 
harmony amid cognitive dissonance.
11am
WE GOT YOUR BACK- THE ZONE, PRICE CENTER
A free, interactive workshop on how to maintain a 
healthy back. Learn about proper body mechanics 
and go through a series of exercises to help 
strengthen your back. This workshop is not intended 
for individuals who have been diagnosed with severe 
back conditions. Brought to you by Student Health 
Services and Health Promotion Services
1:30pm
THERAPY FLUFFIES - THE ZONE
De-stress and play with and pet therapy dogs.
2pm
ACCB PRESENTS: SOCIAL POWER HOUR- PC 
COMMUTER LOUNGE
Meet and mingle with your fellow Triton commuters 
while enjoying FREE FOOD! Contact: aspr@ucsd.edu
1:30pm
COLLEGE AFFORDABILITY SPEAKER SERIES 
WITH SCOTT PETERS- BEAR ROOM, PC WEST
The Office of External Affairs at AS@UCSD hopes to 
address college affordability and student loans with 
an upcoming speaker series with Congressman Scott 
Peters. Alongside, Fund the UCs will also talk about 
how students can stay committed to long term 
funding solutions for Higher Education. Join us in the 
conversation. Free subs from Jersey Mikes!
6pm
A LIFE IN THE LAW: ILLUSIONS LOST, LESSONS 
LEARNED- ERC GREAT HALL, INTERNATIONAL 
HOUSE
In this lecture, acclaimed litigator William S. Lerach 
explores the chasm between the lofty ideals of the 
American legal system and today's disturbing reality. 
Drawing on his life in the law, Lerach will explore the 
causes and consequences of the failure of our legal 
system to meet its ideals, as well as the means by 
which courageous lawyers representing ordinary 
people can pursue justice in this hostile environment.  
A light reception at 6:00 pm will be followed by a 
lecture at 7:00pm. Tickets are free but seating is 
limited.  Contact: ahouston@ucsd.edu
7:30pm
BLACK HISTORY MONTH FILM SERIES: 
HERSKOVITS AT THE HEART OF BLACKNESS - 
PRICE CENTER THEATER
The Black History Month Planning Commitee and 
University Centers Presents a screening of Herskovits 
at the Heart of Blackness as the last movie in our 
Black History Month Film Series! The Screening will 
be held at the Price Center Theatre on February 18! 
FREE  Doors: 7 PM Show: 7:30 PM
FRI2.19
12pm
INTERNATIONAL FRIDAY CAFE - 
INTERNATIONAL CENTER PATIO
2pm
R&R SQUAD - THE ZONE
Drop-in and get a low intensity back rub from the 
R&R Squad! Questions? Contact The Zone at 
zone@ucsd.edu10am
UCSD STUDENT FOUNDATION: SEA OF GIVING- 
LIBRARY WALK
The UCSD Student Foundation brings you Sea of 
Giving: Student Engagement and Philanthropy 
month. Every Wednesday will have a new event for 
both donors and non-donors alike! February 3rd: 
Awareness Day, blocks 1982-1985 February 10th: 
Gratitude Day, block 1991 February 17th: Giving 
Day, blocks 1994-1997 February 24th: Meet the 
Boss, the Basement. Make sure to come out to learn 
about how you can give and learn from experienced 
business professionals at Meet the Boss!
11am
BODY COMPOSITION ANALYSIS - THE ZONE
Walk in for your free analysis which includes: body 
weight, percentage body fat, total body water, and 
blood pressure. One free assessment per quarter is 
available to registered UCSD students. For more 
information visit: 
http://studenthealth.ucsd.edu/bodycomposition.sht
ml
2:30pm
VENTURE CAPITAL 101 BOOTCAMP: A PRIMER 
ON VENTURE CAPITAL- THE BASEMENT, 
MANDEVILLE CENTER B202
The Basement invites you to join this free seminar 
featuring Kristen Leute, Osage Partners, Senior VP of 
University Relations, that will help you understand 
venture capital with respect to entrepreneurship. 
THIS EVENT IS OPEN TO UC SAN DIEGO STUDENTS, 
ALUMNI, FACULTY & STAFF, AND MEMBERS OF OUR 
UC SAN DIEGO COMMUNITY. RSVPS ARE REQUIRED. 
The seminar will explore these questions: -Securing 
VC Financing & What it Takes -Technology Sectors 
that Get Funded -Approaching Potential Investors 
-When to Seek Funding? -What's Hot in VC 
Financing Contact: stu-atran@mail.ucsd.edu 
858-534-1218
6pm
STUDENTS AGAINST MASS INCARCERATION 
GBM SERIES- UCSD COMMUNITY RESOURCE 
CENTERS
This quarter SAMI is hosting GBMs at the five 
community centers on campus! Each meeting we 
will discuss the prison industrial complex and mass 
incarceration by focusing on issues specific to the 
community that week. Please join us at these events 
for discussion and to learn more about what SAMI 
does! Week 6 2/11 6PM - WC Week 7 2/17 6PM - 
BRC Week 8 2/24 6PM - LGBTRC Week 10 3/9 6PM 
- CCC
6:30pm
UCSD PHI ALPHA DELTA PRESENTS: 
ATTORNEY NETWORKING NIGHT- THE LOFT AT 
PRICE CENTER
Open to all UCSD students, join us for this mixer 
with over 20 of San Diego's Top Attorneys, arriving 
from a wide variety of legal fields and expertise, all 
available to meet and greet you -- up and coming 
professionals - in the setting of The Loft on this 
exclusive occasion. Cocktail attire required Contact: 
aehuang@ucsd.eduTUE 2.16
10am
FITNESS ZONE: BOMBAY JAM- THE ZONE, 
PRICE CENTER
Bombay Jam is the ultimate dance fitness total body 
workout that is effective, safe, easy to follow and 
packed with authentic Bollywood flavor! Bombay 
Jam incorporates cardio and toning routines into one 
action packed total body workout, and routines are 
set to custom music mixes created by Bombay's 
hottest DJs
10am
FARMERS' MARKET- TOWN SQUARE
Celebrating 11 years with local farmers and food 
vendors since 2004! The UCSD Farmers' Market is 
held every Tuesday from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. during 
Fall, Winter, and Spring quarters, at Town Square, 
between the Student Services Center and the 
Chancellor's Complex.
2pm
FACE YOUR FEARS: THE POWER OF BEING 
VULNERABLE- RED SHOE RM, PRICE CENTER 
WEST, LVL 2
Part of iLead Program (Must be a registered 
participant to attend): "Life begins at the end of your 
comfort zone. In this workshop, learn about the value 
of being vulnerable and confronting fears."Presented 
by Mike Griffin, Peer Educator, CSI Communication & 
Leadership  Contact: mhg005@ucsd.edu
3pm
R&R SQUAD - THE ZONE
Drop-in and get a low intensity back rub from the 
R&R Squad! Questions? Contact The Zone at 
zone@ucsd.edu
7:30pm
BLACK HISTORY MONTH FILM SERIES: 12 
YEARS A SLAVE- PRICE CENTER THEATER
The Black History Month Planning Committee and 
University Centers Presents a screening of the 
award-winning movie 12 Years a Slave as the third 
movie in our Black History Month Film Series! The 
Screening will be held at the Price Center Theatre on 
February 12! FREE Doors: 7 PM  Show: 7:30 PM
SAT 2.20For more information, visit
blackhistorymonth.ucsd.eduCELEBRATING BLACK
HISTORY MONTH
9am
SAN DIEGO FOOD BANK VOLUNTEER 50- SAN 
DIEGO FOOD BANK
Help feed San Diego's hungry! Work in the warehouse 
and get a tour of the facility and light lunch. Please fill 
out this google form http://goo.gl/forms/Y4dMGgVFsk 
in addition to signing up on the Food Bank's site 
(directions below). The Food Bank always welcomes 
donations of money or food.  You must sign up 
through sdfb.volunteerhub.com and enter code 
ucsd50
10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBURARY 16, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDS$
Gua rdian Classifieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedscrossword
Across
 1 Cancun cash
 5 Major criminal
 10 Payment option
 14 Culture base
 15 Graff of “Mr. Belvedere”
 16 Aware of
 17 Apprentice in a keyboard repair 
shop?
 20 Numerical ending
 21 Take in food
 22 Purloined
 23 Cave dweller of folklore
 25 Keebler employee?
 28 Cubic meter
 29 Beginner: var.
 30 Mexican sayonara
 32 Former Sov. unit
 33 Some salts
 35 Five kings of Norway
 38 Apprentice in an orchestra?
 42 Mall unit
 43 Yearns for
 45 Mach+ plane
 48 Discernment
 50 Ballesteros of golf
 51 French capital
 54 Mil. honor
 55 Warning sound
 56 Prophetic shrine
 58 One in Madrid
 60 Full-house letters
 61 Apprentice at the humane society?
 65 Stadium level
 66 Solos for Sills
 67 Mrs. Chaplin
 68 Insolence
 69 Biblical food
 70 Old FordsDown
 1 Painter’s board
 2 Self-indulgent sprees
 3 Carpenter’s support
 4 Smeltery input
 5 Paycheck deduction fig.
 6 Overjoyed
 7 Guitarist Paul
 8 Single entity
 9 Current events
 10 French artist
 11 Low joints
 12 Mans the helm
 13 Nursery-rhyme Jack
 18 Sis or bro
 19 NBA tie-breakers
 24 Weaver’s frames
 26 Pride member
 27 Throw in cards
 30 Fancy tie
 31 Gravy
 34 Cambridge sch.
 36 TV adjunct
 37 East German secret police
 39 Toward the mouth
 40 Missed long
 41 Cleric’s title
 44 Ladies of Spain
 45 Gushes forth
 46 Ontario city
 47 Makes an even exchange
 49 Bird with a big beak
 52 Bakery employees
 53 Camera letters
 55 Drunkard
 57 Wax-wrapped cheese
 59 ESA’s partner on the ISS
 62 __ pro nobis
 63 Card game
 64 Fig. listBIKES
Trek 4300 Mountain Bike Four Series - $230. 
Black/grey Trek 4300 mountain bike. 22 in. 
Like new. Absolutely no scratches, dings 
etc. Barely ridden. Tires flattened due to non 
use. Have original paperwork and receipt. 
Listing ID: 235068229 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Basket for Bike - $5. Super condition. Listing 
ID: 235068228 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
Pure Fitness Exercise Bike - $150. Pure 
Fitness exercise bike in great condition. 
Used twice. Bought it for $299. Listing ID: 
235068225 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
ELECTRONICS
Large 9” Headrest Monitors - $200. New 
in box, large screens, comes with three 
leather color covers, works with wireless 
headphones. Great for people with kids, 
road trips or just a nice look. Listing ID: 
235068327 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information42 Inch HD LED TV - $250. New. Would 
also consider trade. Listing ID: 235068326 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Gorgeous Black TV Stand - $50. I’m selling 
my black television stand. I’m moving into 
a smaller place so it’s too big for my new 
place. Wish I could keep. It’s very clean, 
beautiful. No damage. No scratches. Listing 
ID: 235068309 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
FURNITURE
Patio Set Including Two Chairs - $25. Perfect 
for small outside living or downtown apart -
ment. Listing ID: 235068349 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
IKEA Computer Chair - $30. Signs of wear 
but feels great! Listing ID: 235068345 at 
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Sectional Couch and Ottoman - $950. Dark 
brown leather sectional with matching 
ottoman included! Listing ID: 235068332 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
tyour vision,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel to 
promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!www.ucsdguardian.org/advertising
#OMG 
#LIKE US
#FOLLOW US
@ucsdgua rdian
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
6+23 75,721 287),77(56
to.ucsd.edu
MORE INFO AT SOVAC.UCSD.EDU/REGISTERSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBURARY 16, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
The UCSD men’s basketball 
team needed only one more win 
to clinch a home playoff berth in 
the California Collegiate Athletic 
Association tournament, and they 
got just that, going 1–1 in their 
homestand against Chico State and 
Cal State Stanislaus. The Triton 
basketball team is now 19–4 overall 
and 14–3 in conference and in 
second place in the CCAA.
Game One
Heading into the final stretch 
of the regular season, the Tritons 
looked to increase their winning 
streak to six in their home game 
against conference rival Chico State 
on Friday night. Unfortunately 
for the Tritons, the ninth-ranked 
Wildcats wouldn’t let anything get 
in the way of continuing their six-
game winning streak. 
For much of the first half, the 
stellar Wildcat defense stymied 
the usually potent Triton offense, 
holding the team to a meager 13 of 
36 shooting while harassing standout 
junior guard Adam Klie to just two 
of 10 shooting. But despite the low 
percentages, the half was a close 
affair throughout, containing five tied 
scores and eight lead changes. This 
was largely due to the scrappy Triton 
defense, forcing nine turnovers 
throughout the half. With the starters 
struggling on offense, senior forward 
Zach McMillan stepped up big time 
by leading the team with seven 
points and three rebounds in just 
nine minutes of play.
But the Tritons found their stroke in the second half, as their 
shooting improved to 12–25 overall, 
turning the game into a full-blown 
shootout and nearly doubling their 
first half output. Unfortunately 
for the Tritons, however, it wasn’t 
enough. At the 4:02 minute mark, 
the Wildcats broke the final tie of 
the game and began to pull ahead; 
they would eventually lead by as 
many as eight points in the final 
minutes of the game. While the 
Tritons pulled back within four 
with 37 seconds to go, the Wildcats 
remained in control and close out 
the game 77–71.
“They’re big and athletic and 
make it hard to score in close, ” 
UCSD Head Coach Eric Olen told 
the UCSD Athletics Department. “I 
thought we had some opportunities 
we didn’t quite take advantage of. ”
Despite the loss, the Tritons had 
some bright spots in the second 
half. Sophomore guard Grant 
Jackson scored all 13 of his points 
in the second half to tie senior 
forward Drew Dyer as the leading 
scorer for the team. Junior guard 
Aleks Lipovic was money from 
three-point land, scoring all 12 of 
his points from beyond the arc. Klie, 
despite the rough night, was able to 
grab seven boards on the night. 
With the loss, the Tritons fell to 
18–4 overall and 13–3 in conference, 
losing the top spot in the CCAA to 
Chico State, which climbed to 19–3 
overall and 13–2 in conference.
Game Two
Needing just one more win 
to earn a home game during the 
CCAA Tournament, the Tritons 
looked to bounce back on Saturday night against Stanislaus State. 
Out of the gate, the Tritons took 
control on offense with a flurry of 
three-pointers to take a 10-point 
lead in the first seven minutes. This 
offensive control would continue 
throughout the half, as the Tritons 
had their way with the Warriors on 
offense and defense. The Tritons 
shot a stellar eight of 17 from 
three while forcing the Warriors to 
shoot only seven of 21 overall. The 
defense also stole the ball seven 
times and scored nine points off 
of those turnovers. Despite the 
Tritons’ mediocre 13 of 33 shooting 
overall, the team out-rebounded 
the Warriors 23–14, allowing the 
Tritons to play at their own pace.
Even though the Tritons would 
never completely lose control, the Warriors made the game close at 
points in the second half. Soon after 
the Tritons brought the lead up 19, 
the Warriors’ sophomore guard 
Christian Bayne caught fire, scoring 
11 points in two minutes to cut the 
Triton lead to seven. But the Tritons 
wouldn’t have any more of this, as 
they made a couple of stops and 
quickly brought the lead back up to 
17 thanks to a couple of quick scores 
by junior guard Koree Cox. The 
Tritons didn’t have anymore trouble, 
and closed out the Warriors 70–55.
Not afraid to get close to the 
basket, the Tritons dominated 
inside, outscoring the Warriors 
18–6 in the paint. They took 
advantage of every opportunity they 
got by outscoring the Warriors in 
points-off turnovers, second-chance opportunities and fast breaks. The 
Tritons simply dominated in all 
phases of the game.
Lipovic led the team with 15 
points off of his four three-pointers, 
with Klie and Dyer close behind 
with 12 and 11 points respectively. 
The team as a whole rebounded 
well, grabbing 45 total boards with 
eight players getting at least four 
rebounds each.
After the loss, the Warriors have 
lost 11 straight games and are now 
5–16 overall and 4–12 in conference.
With three games left in the 
regular season, the Tritons travel to 
Cal State San Marcos on Feb. 18 for 
their final road game of the season.
TEDI Tritions for Equity Di versity and Inclusion
Consciousne ss of the world a round us is an i nvaluable skill for what ever 
career we pu rsue. The goals of TEDI a re to d evelop student s' critical 
consciousne ss of social justice and equi ty minded leade rship, and to build 
a net work of inclusi ve, equi ty minded s tudent leade rs on campus. The 
program consists of a retreat, with four foll ow-up p rograms, workshops, 
or events selected by the pa rticipant to supplement learning. TEDI is 
co-p resented by UCSD A ssociated Students and the Center for Student 
Involvement, and is open to all UCSD s tudents.
REGI STER N OW for TEDI,
go to http:/ /ccl.ucsd .edu/regist ration/
Question s? Email us at ucsdtedi@gmail .comSunday, February 21   • 10am-2:30pm
Green Table Room • Price Center West, Level 2MEN'S  BASKETBALL
Men’s Basketball Split Pair of Games to Clinch Home Playoff Berth
After falling to Chico State, Tritons bounce back and defeat Stanislaus State, next game will be versus Cal State San Marcos on the road.
alex  wu     adw006@ucsd.eduBY  a l e x   w u
Staff Writer
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE /UCSD GUARDIANCONTACT THE EDITOR
MARCUS  THUILLIER
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , FEBURARY 16, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
week  in
summar y
WOMEN'S
BASKETBALL
WOMEN'S
 W A TER  POLOUCSD
UCSD
UCSD
UCSDUCSD
UCSD
UCSDChico State
Stanislaus State
Indiana
UCSB
UCI68 – 47
88 – 81
11 – 5
8 – 1511 – 3
12 – 11
3 – 5
MEN'S
BASKETBALL
71 – 77
70 – 55Chico State
Stanislaus StateUCSD
UCSDCal East Bay
USCNo. 22 UCSD was back home this weekend as it opened up the weekend with a convincing 68–47 win over Chico State on Friday and escaped 
with a 88–81 overtime win on Saturday against Cal State Stanislaus. UCSD’s record now stands at 20–3 overall and 15–2 in the California 
Collegiate Athletic Association. 
Game One
The Tritons survived a terrible first quarter to pull off a 21-point victory on Friday night. 
Chico State came out strong in the first quarter, and their stifling defense limited the Tritons to only six points. Down 15 after the first quarter, 
UCSD started to mount a comeback behind senior forward Farrah Shokoor and junior guard Beth Mounier. A Mounier three with only three seconds 
left in the second half brought the deficit down to three for the Tritons. 
UCSD opened up the third quarter firing and quickly closed the gap, tying up the game 36-all. The Tritons’ defense then completely took over, 
shutting out the Wildcats for the rest of the quarter. UCSD went on a 18–0 run and headed into the final quarter up 54–36. 
The Tritons held on to their double-digit lead throughout the fourth quarter, disposing of Chico State by 21 points, 68–47.
Shokoor lead all scorers with 15 points and also had seven rebounds. Mounier had 14 points, while senior guard Jamie Katuna put up 11 points. 
Junior guard Haley Anderson also had seven rebounds for the Tritons. 
Game Two
On Saturday night, the Tritons needed overtime to defeat Cal State Stanislaus 88–81. 
Cal State Stanislaus took a 7–2 lead early in the game but the Tritons answered. The game 
went back and forth in the first quarter, until freshman guard Joleen Yang hit a three-
pointer to close out the quarter, putting the Tritons up by two, 22–20.
“Our team is a blue-collar team and whoever’s called on to make a play does 
it, ” UCSD Head Coach Heidi VanDerveer told UCSD Athletics.
The game continued to be close in the second quarter, with UCSD 
grabbing a seven-point advantage twice in the quarter. With the score tied 
up at 35, all with less than a minute remaining in the half, Mounier 
scored a basket to put the Tritons up by two at halftime. 
“We struggled in the first half, ” VanDerveer told UCSD 
Athletics. “But I think we got better defensively and made 
plays offensively [in the second half]. ”
UCSD held another five-point lead in a back-and-forth 
affair in the third. However, Cal State Stanislaus put up 
enough pressure on the Tritons, taking a 
one-point lead into the fourth quarter.
The Warriors held a 60–56 lead 
before UCSD went on a 11–2 run 
to open up the fourth quarter, with 
six points from Katuna and two by 
Shokoor. UCSD led by three before 
junior guard Reana Hardin from 
Stanislaus State hit a three to even things 
out and send the teams into overtime. 
The Tritons dominated overtime, 
outplaying the Warriors and outgained them 19–
12. First came a 13–4 run to blow the game open, before 
UCSD secured the win with free throws down the stretch. 
“We grinded out the win, ” VanDerveer told UCSD Athletics. 
“I think Farrah in the second half was really the Farrah we know 
and love. ” 
Shokoor had her 13th double-double of the season with 21 points and 
17 rebounds. Katuna also had 21 points, while Mounier contributed with 
19 points.
The Tritons are back on the road next week, when they face Cal State San 
Marcos on Thursday, Feb. 18. Women Improve Record to 20–3
Basketball dominates Chico State then beat Cal State 
Stanislaus in overtime after Shokoor’s double-double
readers can contact
Marcus Thuillier   mthuillie@ucsd.edu 
On Sunday, UC San Diego’s 
19th-ranked women’s water polo 
team ended up sixth at the Triton 
Invitational at Canyonview Aquatic 
Center. The sixth-place finish marked 
their best since 2011 when they also 
finished sixth. 
The Tritons started off with a great 
win over No. 11 UC Santa Barbara as 
junior center Lauren Boyer scored the 
game-winning goal in sudden death 
for a 12–11 victory. UCSD would then 
lose in a hard-fought battle against 
No. 9 UC Irvine, ultimately being 
defeated 5–3.
UCSD opened up the weekend 
with a 11–5 win over Cal State East 
Bay on Friday. The Tritons also won 
11–3 against Indiana and lost 8–15 
against USC on Saturday. By going 
3–2 over the weekend the Tritons are 
6–4 overall, while the Gauchos drop to 7–6, and the Anteaters move to 6–4.
Head coach Brad Kreutzkamp was 
happy with the team and the sixth-
place finish: “It was a fantastic finish. 
We felt the team this year was special; I 
felt that we have a lot of talent. I think 
we’re deep, we’ve got some seniors and 
we’ve got some freshman and we’ve 
got everything in between. We’ve got 
all the holes filled, we just have to go 
out there and do the job. ” 
Game One
UCSD scored two shots with less 
than a minute left in regulation to 
send the game into overtime. Boyer 
tied her career high with five goals 
in the game in addition to the game 
winner. Senior attacker Julia Kirkland 
and redshirt junior defender Alexis 
Wieseler pitched in two scores each. 
Senior goalkeeper Courtney Miller 
ended the match with double-digit 
saves, blocking 11 shots in total. 
UCSD’s defense was excellent in 
the first period as they held UCSB to just one goal, in addition to two 
shot-clock turnovers on two straight 
possessions. After the Gauchos 
started the match with a score, the 
Tritons answered when sophomore 
goalkeeper Emma Sasson buried a 
skip shot to tie it at one. 
UCSD allowed two quick goals 
to begin the second frame but took 
the lead with two goals from Boyer 
and one from Wieseler. The Gauchos 
almost tied the game before the 
half with a score from senior utility 
Samantha Murphy, but Kirkland 
would convert on a skip shot to put 
the Tritons up 5–4. 
The Tritons had no offense in the 
third period as the Gauchos shut them 
out and added four goals, but UCSD 
was resilient.
After not scoring for more than 
12 minutes, Kirkland scored early in 
the fourth to end UCSD’s drought. 
Soon after, Boyer would complete her 
hat trick with a deep score for UCSD. With a one-point lead UCSB would 
add its only goal of the period to put 
its score up by two.
With only 46 seconds left, Wieseler 
put the Tritons within one with a goal 
of her own. Junior attacker Connie Wu 
would follow that up with a perfectly 
timed lob shot over the head of UCSB 
senior goalkeeper Mackenzie Brokaw 
to tie the game at nine and send the 
game into overtime. 
The Tritons and Gauchos would 
exchange goal for goal in overtime 
as each team scored once in each 
overtime period. Freshman center 
Chanel Schilling scored on a quick 
backhand goal in the first period of 
overtime and Boyer added another in 
the second frame.
UCSD’s defense was solid despite 
the UCSB attacks as it forced a 
turnover in the opening sprint. Boyer 
would give the Tritons the win by 
drilling a backhand shot after getting 
past two defenders. Game Two
In the fifth match against a 
nationally ranked opponent in the last 
two days, the Tritons’ defense held 
strong, giving up only five goals to the 
ninth-ranked team, but only scoring 
three of their own.
Senior attacker Laurel Kistler 
scored two goals in the first period to 
give the Tritons a 2–1 lead.
UCSD would see its lead slip away 
after scoreless second and third frames 
in which UC Irvine would add two 
goals in each period. 
The Tritons kept fighting in the 
final period, shutting the Anteaters 
out and adding a goal from Wieseler. 
But it would not be enough to regain 
the lead as UCSD would fall to UC 
Irvine, 5–3.
UCSD will be off for two weeks 
before heading to Irvine for the UC 
Irvine Invitational on Feb. 27–28. WOMEN'S  W A TER  POLO
Tritons upset No. 6 UCSB in Sudden Death, fall to No.9 UCI
Women’s water polo record now stands at 6–4 overall, team will be off for two weeks before playing in the UCI Invitational on Feb 27–28.
BY  d e v  j a i nWritten by Marcus Thuillier // Sports Editor
Photos by Megan Lee
readers can contact
Dev Jain   Dajain@ucsd.edu 2/17
2/18
2/18
2/19
2/19AT Long Beach State
AT Cal State San Marcos
AT Cal State San Marcos
AT Cal State Dominguez Hills
VS Concordia IrvineM.Volleyball 
W.Basketball
M.Basketball
Softball
BaseballUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMES