Students gathered in Revelle 
Plaza on Friday afternoon to protest 
the administration’s treatment of 
undergraduate students. The protest, 
“Students vs. UCSD Administration, ” 
was all-encompassing, addressing 
multiple aspects of undergraduate 
life, such as mental health, housing 
and dining.
The protest began in Revelle 
College at noon, consisting of at 
most 30 students holding signs with 
messages like “We See: People, UC 
Profit” and chanting “UC Student 
Debt.” After standing near the 
fountain for a while, the protesters 
marched down Library Walk and then to the chancellor’s office, where 
they nailed a list of demands to 
the door in a reference to Martin 
Luther’s 95 Theses. 
The grievances posted to the 
Students vs. UCSD Administration 
Facebook event page lists seven areas 
for improvement: mental health care, 
housing, parking, increasing tuition, 
college GE requirements, destruction 
of campus culture and dining. Below 
each topic mentioned, the protest 
leaders wrote specific examples of 
problems with each of the areas they 
protested, such as understaffing at 
CAPS for mental health. 
According to Thurgood Marshall 
College freshman and protest 
organizer Sneh Dhruv, part of the 
problems facing undergraduate students stems from university 
negligence toward students.
“We want to show the 
administration that we have a set 
of grievances and a set of solutions 
and demands for those grievances 
because truthfully the quality of 
life for undergraduate students has 
been on the decline because the 
administration really does not give two shits about undergraduates,” 
Dhruv told the UCSD Guardian.
Marshall junior Jesus Valencia 
told the Guardian that while he 
is not completely informed about 
the protest, the protesters’ issues 
with the current housing situation 
seemed limited.VOLUME 49, ISSUE 59   TUESDA Y , MA Y 31, 2016  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
SOCIAL MEDIA IN 
POLITICS
SOCIAL MEDIA HAS 
REVOLUTIONIZED THE 
POLITICAL PROCESS, GETTING 
COLLEGE STUDENTS MORE 
ENGAGED IN IMPORTANT 
DEBATES. BUT IS THERE A 
DOWNSIDE TO NEW MEDIA? 
THE GUARDIAN INVESTIGATES.
#BLM   ACTIVISM
WOMEN'S  BASKETBALLPOLICE  AS  A PROTECTED  CLASS
a  historic  seasonOPINION, P AGE 4
Sport,  P age  16
MONDAY
H 69 L 59TUESDAY
H 70 L 59
WEDNESDAY
H 72 L 60THURSDAY
H 73 L 61
FORECAST
VERBATIM
LIKE THE AGE-OLD SAYING OF 
DON’T JUDGE A BOOK BY ITS 
COVER, WE SHOULDN’T JUDGE 
PRODUCTS BASED SOLELY ON 
THEIR AESTHETIC VALUE. BY 
DOING SO, WE ENCOURAGE 
COMPANIES, LIKE APPLE, TO 
DISREGARD THE CONSUMER 
BY CHARGING US MORE TO PAY 
FOR THEIR MISTAKES. ”
- Alexander Chen
TECH IT OUT  
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
DISEASE OF THE YEAR  ......3
RENTAL RESTRICTIONS.....4
TECH IT OUT......................5
SENIOR SENDOFFS  ........... 7
TRACK AND FIELD RECAP  .15“FEA TURES,  P AGE  13
PHOTO BY ALEX  LIANG/ GUARDIAN
Students and Faculty March Against 
Shutdown of  Campus Art Gallery
Nearly 100 members of the UCSD 
community gathered together 
last Thursday at the Silent Tree 
to protest the impending shutdown of the 
University Art Gallery and its conversion 
into classrooms. The mass action is a part 
of “Dispossessed: a call to Prayer and 
Protest, ” a 13-day-long call to action put 
on by two alumni artists known as the 
Magpie Collective to raise awareness about 
the closure.
Elizabeth Stringer, the events coordinator 
of “Dispossessed, ” told the UCSD Guardian 
that the purpose of the protest was to inform 
people about the situation, especially since 
the future of the gallery has been kept under 
wraps for so long. 
“We wanted to raise awareness about both the closing and the petition and to show that 
we’re against it, ” Stringer said. “[The gallery] 
has been sort of in a weird stasis point for the 
last year, so a lot of incoming freshmen don’t 
know about the UAG and I wish they did. ”
University officials announced a week 
earlier that they are converting the gallery 
into a classroom in order to make up for 
the growing student population. Stringer, 
however, thinks this is not a sufficient 
justification for removing one of the few art-
dedicated facilities left on campus.
“I don’t truly buy the fact that it’s because 
of incoming student numbers that we have to 
close this down, ” Stringer said. “If that’s the 
only reason, then there should’ve been some 
sort of substitute for this massive loss of arts 
and culture within the university campus … It is the only major gallery on campus 
that allows for undergraduates to show here. 
We do have the Camille Gallery, but that is 
strictly for undergraduates. It doesn’t allow 
for this meeting point between faculty, MFA, 
visiting artists and undergraduates. ”
The social media manager of 
“Dispossessed” Lawrence Chit told the 
Guardian that the loss of the gallery signals 
the loss of the holistic education that UCSD 
claims to provide. 
“UCSD is meant to be this interdisciplinary, 
research-oriented school, and ideally, a 
campus like that should be well-rounded, ” 
Chit said. “Of course, we’re making so much 
innovation in STEM, and that’s great, but the 
UAG is a huge representation of the arts and 
culture at UCSD. ”
Protest: “Students vs. UCSD 
Administration”  CAMPUS
B y  jacky to      news editor
By  l a u r e n  h o l t
news editorial assistantSee UAG , page 4
See STUDENTS , page 4Photo by Kenji Bennett // UCSD Guardian
Photo by Christian Duarte // UCSD GuardianREVELLE PLAZA2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 31, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
My  
spare 
room  
funded my 
Master’s  
degree.
Earn money by  
sharing your home.
airbnb.com/hostNEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 31, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
Regents Park Row
La Jolla Village DriveGenesseeRegents RoadExecutive Dr.
Dr. Wali Hamidy, D.M.D.
4150 Regents Park Row, #200, La Jolla, CA 92037
(858) 202-0481
lajolladentalimage.com
• Same Day Emergency               
Appointment Available
• We accept all PPOs and                   
UCSD Insurance Plans
• Financing Available OAC.New Patient Special
Regular Cleaning,* 
Exam & Digital X-Rays  
Only $60
*In absence of gum disease. Regular price $310. Expires June 30, 2017.
 Friendly and Knowledgeable Dentist and Staff
Avoid Cavities and Keep Your Teeth
Increase Your Confidence and Smile More
We will Listen to Your Concerns & Explain OptionsHealthy T eeth and Gums Are Important For Your Overall Health!
We 
welcome 
UCSD Staff 
& Students
DO YOU TWEET? WE DO!
@UCSDGua rdianThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. Josh’s greatest contribution to the Guardian is 
his idea to change ed board meeting times. And for that, Josh, 
we are forever grateful.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Marketing Co-Directors
Peter McInnis, Haley Asturias
Training and Development Manager
Cedric Hyon
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Vincent Pham
Tina Butoiu
Jacky To
Josh Lefler
Quinn Pieper
Marcus Thuillier
Dev Jain
Oliver Kelton
Karly Nisson
Sam Velaquez
Brittney Lu
Olga Golubkova
Megan Lee
Christian Duarte
Joselynn Ordaz
Aleya Zenieris
Kenji Bennett
Ayat Amin
Christina Carlson
Sophia Huang
Jennifer Grundman
Sage Schubert ChristianEditor-in-Chief
Managing Editor
News Co-Editors
 
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Co-Editors  
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Co-Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Multimedia Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Co-Editors
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Quinn Pieper, Jacky To, Aleya Zenieris
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim, Alicia Ho, Lisa Chik
Editorial Assistants
Naftali Burakovsky, Lisa Chik, Lauren Holt, Tia Ikemoto,
Maria Sebas, Nathan Walker, Matt ZamudioWEEKLIES By Alex Lee
Disease of the Year: Zika
By Karly Nisson // Senior Staff Writer // knisson@ucsd.edu
Despite having made countless 
headlines this year, Zika isn’t a 
new disease and the majority of 
people who contract it will go 
symptom-free. Having first been 
discovered in Uganda’s Zika forest 
in 1947, the virus was thought to be 
generally benign, and it wasn’t until 
April 13 that the CDC confirmed 
a link between the virus and 
microcephaly. Compared to other 
mosquito-borne diseases like Yellow 
Fever or Malaria, Zika initially 
hadn’t posed an immediate threat. 
Consequently, resources available 
for investigation into the virus 
were redirected towards finding 
treatments for related diseases with 
greater death and hospitalization 
rates. But with cases of Zika-related 
microcephaly on the rise and newly 
discovered links to neurological and 
autoimmune disorders, research 
into the virus has rapidly taken off. 
Zika is considered a flavivirus, 
meaning that it falls under the same 
category as diseases such as dengue 
hemorrhagic fever, yellow fever, 
West Nile virus and hepatitis C. 
Though flaviviruses are responsible 
for some of the most serious 
mosquito-borne human diseases in 
existence, many don’t have vaccines. 
However, like those infected with 
the dengue and West Nile viruses, 
most who contract Zika won’t even 
know they have it. The disease is 
generally symptomless, and only a small percentage of those with 
the virus will develop more serious 
conditions. In fact, the first and only 
Zika-related death was reported 
this year on April 29 in Puerto 
Rico; while the death of a single 
individual is a far cry from the flu’s 
annual 32,743 reported deaths, the 
individual’s fatal condition, among 
several other serious manifestations 
of the disease, may mean that the 
virus has mutated. 
The victim who developed fatal 
symptoms was a man in his 70s 
who had recovered from cold-like 
symptoms before he developed a 
far more devastating condition: 
immune thrombocytopenic 
purpura. The illness is similar to 
another syndrome associated with 
Zika, Guillain-Barré, in that it causes 
the immune system to produce 
antibodies that attack human cells 
rather than the virus. Both disorders 
can be caused by a number of 
infections, however, and are rare 
among those who contract Zika. But 
the question still remains as to why 
an originally benign disease is now 
causing severe birth defects and 
autoimmune complications — could 
it be that the virus is changing or are 
these rare manifestations showing 
up because the disease is infecting 
a much greater number of people? 
The answer may lie in the 
disease’s similarities to other 
flaviviruses. On May 18, we visited Dengue virus and discovered that 
severe manifestations of the the 
disease may be due to Antibody 
Dependent Enhancement (ADE). 
That is, when low levels of 
antibodies are present, say following 
previous exposure to the disease, 
the virus may be able to use those 
antibodies to multiply and cause far 
more devastating symptoms. If Zika 
also exhibits ADE, those who have 
already contracted the disease — or 
even another flavivirus — may be at 
greater risk of developing symptoms 
such as microcephaly. While this 
theory hasn’t been proven yet, it 
provides a potential explanation for 
why only those fetuses in Brazil and 
French Polynesia have developed 
microcephaly. Mosquito-borne 
diseases are easily transmitted in 
these tropical regions, and if the 
mothers had previously contracted 
other flaviviruses, a re-infection 
might explain why Zika has only 
been linked to stunted neonatal 
brain development in certain 
regions. 
Cases of microcephaly in Brazil 
have risen significantly this year, 
prompting widespread concern for 
the Rio 2016 summer olympics. 150 
cases per year is a normal average, 
but this number has shot up to 1,434 
in the months following October. 
While many have already begun 
taken precautions — South Korea 
unveiled a “Zika-proof ” uniform for its athletes and scientists have 
called for a postponement or 
relocation of the games — the WHO 
has determined that moving the 
games will alter neither the spread 
of the virus nor the severity of the 
epidemic. For those traveling to 
South America this summer, the 
best preventative measures will be 
those taken against the viral vector, 
the Aedes mosquito. 
Expectant mothers should be 
particularly generous with bug 
repellent when travelling in order 
to prevent their fetuses from 
developing microcephaly. Though 
cases of the condition are increasing, 
research into the disorder hasn’t 
been without progress. Scientists 
at the UCSD School of Medicine, 
for instance, have discovered a 
mechanism by which Zika causes 
microcephaly. 
Using a 3D, stem-cell based 
model of a first semester human 
brain, researchers found that Zika 
activates a molecule produced to 
ward of viruses. This molecule 
triggers the death of stem cells 
originally intended to become 
brain cells, resulting in stunted 
brain development. The good news 
is, however, that when researchers 
inhibited this mechanism, the 
brain continued to develop at a 
healthy rate, suggesting a potential 
approach towards treating a pre-
natal Zika infection. 4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 31, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
Ben Cohen, co-founder of the 
Ben & Jerry’s ice cream company, 
in partnership with National Nurses 
United, visited UCSD Thursday 
afternoon along with film actress 
Rosario Dawson to serve free ice cream 
to students. The event is part of a 
nationwide campaign to rally support 
for Democratic nomination candidate 
Bernie Sanders.
Both Cohen and Dawson have 
advocated for the Bernie Sanders 
campaign over the past several 
months. Cohen and Ben & Jerry’s 
co-founder Jerry Greenfield have 
been treating people to free ice 
cream across the country to rally 
support for the campaign.
With the California primary 
approaching on June 7, Cohen 
described the significant role 
UCSD students can play in electing 
Sanders as the Democratic Party’s 
presidential nomination.
“California is the big state that 
comes last, ” Cohen told the UCSD 
Guardian. “California and the 
students at UCSD can make it so that 
Bernie wins the nomination. It’s rare where a bunch of students have that 
opportunity to make a difference. ”
Dawson applauded UCSD’s 
reputation for activism, highlighting 
student advocacy as essential to 
combat social inequality. 
“Thank you for keeping activism 
alive on your campus, ” Dawson told 
the UCSD community. “There are a lot 
of injustices happening right at home, 
and we need your attention on it. ”
Cohen explained that in order 
for Sanders to win the Democratic 
nomination, there would need to 
be an overwhelming majority of the 
California vote in his favor. He aims to 
galvanize the UCSD student body to 
participate in the upcoming primary. 
“What Bernie needs to do in 
California is win in a landslide, ” 
Cohen said. “The reality is that we’re 
all little grains of sand, and if we all 
work together, we can create [that] 
landslide. ”
According to Melinda Markowitz, 
registered nurse and President of 
the California Nurses Association, 
Sanders’ goal of making tuition free 
at public colleges and universities is 
a major reason why NNU and Ben 
& Jerry’s are campaigning at schools 
throughout the United States.“[College students] have a special 
concern because they’re going to 
school and they’re going to have huge 
debts at the end of their education, ” 
Markowitz told the Guardian. “Bernie 
feels that nobody should have to [go 
into debt for that reason]. ”
Student organization Tritons for 
Bernie coordinated with NNU to host 
the event. Revelle College senior and 
event organizer Pooja Ekbote explained 
that NNU took the initiative to bring 
the campaign to campus and that the 
student organization received approval 
for the event from administration 
this past weekend. Tritons for Bernie 
worked on a compressed schedule to 
ensure that the logistics for the event 
were properly handled. 
Revelle senior Karla Garibay 
praised the event and expressed 
that Cohen’s endorsement works in 
Sanders’ favor. 
“I think it’s great that they’re doing 
this, ” Garibay told the Guardian. 
“[Ben & Jerry’s is] something college 
students really love, so if Ben is 
advocating for Bernie, then that 
looks really good for [Sanders]. ”“ Although their heart was in 
the right place and I admire the 
passion that drove the protest, their 
misguided attempt to ameliorate 
their living situation seemed highly 
uneducated, ” Valencia said. 
Dhruv explained that the 
purpose of including numerous 
grievances instead of focusing on 
one issue was to include as many 
students as possible.
“We wanted to learn from other 
protests and not divide students 
based on sex, gender, ethnicity, etc., 
and we wanted to make a protest that 
students overall could participate 
in because everyone is pissed off about paying money — who wants 
to pay extra money?” Dhruv stated. 
“[Education] is a basic human right. ”
Dhruv also noted that he believes 
this protest will be part of a greater 
effort to demand more openness 
from the administration. 
“I feel like this is just the 
beginning of a larger movement, ” 
Dhruv said. “I feel like this is 
just the crux of us telling [the 
administration] that we also want 
to have a say in our education and 
that we want transparency and 
communication. ”   Furthermore, Stringer pointed 
out that a background in art is not 
uncommon among scientists and thus 
has a positive impact on those fields. 
“ A lot of big shakers and movers 
within all the science departments 
have been artists themselves,” 
Stringer said. “ And so to ignore the 
fact that culture plays a part within 
scientific discovery, it’s a shame 
that’s happening. ”
Revelle College freshman 
Cameron Norman, who attended the 
protest, views the gallery’s closure as 
another example of the university’s 
tendency to remove areas used for 
student expression. 
“The closure of the art gallery is just 
[part of a] general pattern I see with 
UCSD to repeatedly close spaces that 
allow students to express themselves, ” 
Norman said. “We’ d like to keep open a space that all kinds of students, both 
graduate and undergraduate, and staff 
can all collaborate. ”
Tae Hwang, one of the artists who 
comprises the Magpie Collective, told 
the Guardian that she hopes that the 
protest and the rest of the gestures will 
raise awareness about the closing of 
the space.
“We wanted this exhibition to 
serve as a platform, ” Hwang said. 
“We’re using this space as a call to 
action, to bring attention to the art 
gallery’s closing. I don’t know if it’s 
going to change anything … [but] I at 
least think it is good to have some type 
of visibility. ”
“Dispossessed: a call to Prayer 
and Protest” will end after 13 days 
on June 2 — the official closure date 
of the UAG. 
▶ STUDENTS,  from page 1▶ UAG,  from page 1Art Gallery Will Officially Close on June 2
kevin santos   jacky to   j6to@ucsd.edu
Rosario Dawson Campaigns for Bernie SandersLIBRARY WALK
BY  k e v i n  sa n t o s
senior staff writer 
Valencia: Protest Was Passionate But Misguided
lauren hol t   lcholt@ucsd.eduPhoto by Christian Duarte // UCSD GuardianOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 31, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
QUINN  PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
QUICK TAKESRENTAL SERVICES LIKE AIRBNB HAVE BEEN BANNED IN SOME CITIES DUE TO ITS ROLE IN INCREASING RENTS. WHETHER 
OR NOT THESE RESTRICTIONS SHOULD BE ENACTED IN SAN DIEGO IS NOW BEING DEBATED BY LOCAL POLITICIANS.
Last month, the Democratic candidate for San Diego City Council District 
1 Barbara Bry wrote in an opinion piece for the Voice of San Diego that 
short-term housing rentals conducted by companies like Airbnb are “directly 
contributing” to San Diego’s affordable housing shortage. Citing research 
estimates from the nonprofit Save San Diego Neighborhoods, which estimates 
that over 6,000 properties are being used as “mini-hotels, ” Bry argued that these 
rental companies need to be restricted in order to keep housing for San Diegans. 
However, a closer look at this number reveals that Airbnb is not significantly 
affecting the pre-existing housing crisis. Instead of focusing on restricting 
Airbnb, which draws a lot of beneficial tourism to San Diego, the City Council 
should instead focus on fixing the broader issues underlying the housing crisis.
A problem with Barbara Bry’s statement is the number of “mini-hotel” 
rentals she cited. With new sharing services like Airbnb, it is difficult to gauge 
how many listings are being rented out entirely year-round, instead of partially 
or intermittently. According to the Voice of San Diego, the estimate of over 6,000 
rental properties includes any home listed on Airbnb, regardless of whether 
it was rented for a one-time event like Comic-Con. These properties are not 
necessarily “mini-hotels, ” and therefore do not detract from the housing market. 
Pushing forward legislation that would regulate companies like Airbnb could 
have negative effects, seeing as this form of house rental brings in a significant 
amount of tourist money. San Diego City Councilman Chris Cate noted to 
the Voice of San Diego that short-term rentals bring in annually around $110 
million in rental income and $86 million in rental guests’ tourist spending. 
Instead of focusing time-consuming efforts on creating legislation for restricting 
complex short-term rentals, the San Diego Union Tribune writes that a better 
place to start addressing the housing crisis is with the complicated zoning 
regulations that often amount to 40 percent of housing costs. When developers 
build housing projects, they have to comply with rules regarding lot size, height 
and density, among many others that significantly increase the final price. 
The San Diego housing crisis is complicated, and an overly simple solution as 
restricting Airbnb rentals will only detract from real efforts to fix it.
             — SOPHIE OSBORN
Senior Staff WriterThough it offers an ingenious solution for renters or vacationers 
desperately looking for affordable housing in a new area, the presence 
of Airbnb in large cities has presented its own share of problems. In San 
Diego, number of listings for Airbnb — especially in areas like La Jolla, 
Pacific Beach, North Park and downtown — have skyrocketed since 2015.  
Democratic candidate for City Council Barbara Bry called this surge 
“detrimental to the affordable housing market, ” and is joined by other local 
politicians in pushing for a crackdown on the number of San Diego Airbnb 
listings. These calls are based on the estimated 6,000 San Diego homes 
on the website that are essentially removed from the rental or purchasing 
home market, putting even more strain on the housing market. Other 
commissioners have cited a lack of proper taxes being paid by hosts as the 
main component of the crackdown on the number of homes that can be 
offered for a short term rental agreement. Regardless of the reason, the 
impending suppression on the number of homes that can be listed on the 
site will affect a large majority of both San Diego residents and tourists.
There is no clear law in regard to San Diego residents renting out 
their homes for short-term agreements. The regulation regarding what 
is constituted as a long-term versus short-term agreement is unclear and 
the law regarding bed taxes — a levy imposed by the local government 
on hotel stays within its jurisdiction — is fuzzy at best. Despite the 
ambiguous nature of the rental- and vacation-home laws within San 
Diego, commissioners and other city officials do have the right to enforce 
regulation of Airbnb listings. According to the Voice of San Diego, many 
people are now buying homes just to rent out rooms on sites like Airbnb. 
They rent these homes out to visitors without having to account for 
the same taxes that hotel chains must pay for. The concept is simple: If 
someone is renting out a room in their house for a short period of time, 
that person is operating on the same level as a hotel does, and thus they 
should also be held responsible for paying the same taxes for that bed 
being used. 
                                 — MEGAN MONGES
                             Senior Staff WriterALEXANDER CHEN
ALC129@ucsd.eduTECH   IT  OUT
Engineering 
Without
Design
Too often I find that the release 
of products is coupled with a 
disconnect from the functionality 
of that product. Perhaps the most 
obvious example is the inclusion 
of only a single USB-Type C port 
in Apple’s newest Macbook. To the 
engineering team, improved thinness 
and lightness of the new Macbook are 
goals which they have accomplished. 
However, the fundamental issue being 
ignored is how this impacts the end-
user experience.
Anyone who used the Macbook 
for a day would encounter the issue 
of being unable to use any USB 
accessories while trying to charge 
the Macbook. Much like a wedding 
dress, the new Macbook looks stylish, 
elegant and chic, but it isn’t practical 
for everyday use. 
However, it seems as though 
we, as consumers, have become 
obsessed with appearance, 
prioritizing it over functionality. 
We, as the users, buy these 
fundamentally flawed products 
and are burdened with finding and 
making our own solutions when, 
in reality, these companies ought to 
design more user-friendly products. 
When someone who purchases 
the Macbook finds out they can’t 
charge the device while using any 
other USB accessories with the 
device, they are tasked with finding 
a solution —  in this case, buying a 
$79 dongle from Apple or no longer 
using USB devices while charging 
the Macbook. In both of these 
scenarios, the consumer is stepping 
out of their way to fix a problem 
that the producer has created. 
This problem is not unique to the 
Macbook. The thinness of the iPhone 
6 and 6S are achieved at a trade-off 
with battery life. The consumer, 
faced with the fact that their phone 
is constantly dying before the end 
of the day, is forced to carry a large 
battery pack, look for outlets in which 
to plug their phone or buy a $99 
battery phone case from Apple that 
makes the phone bulkier. It seems 
as though Apple is literally making 
consumers pay for its mistakes, and 
unless we stop purchasing these 
products, we’ll only be encouraging 
this continued disregard for the user 
experience of these products. If user 
experience were the first priority 
instead of aesthetic appearances, the 
iPhone would be slightly thicker, 
with its battery lasting an entire day 
of use, and the Macbook would be 
slightly thicker with the advantage of 
being able to simultaneously use USB 
devices and charge the battery. 
Aesthetics play a large role in 
determining the identity of a device 
and its function. They provide 
a sense of prestige and comfort 
which are not achieved with “ugly” 
products. However, when advances in 
aesthetic design are achieved through 
compromising the device’s basic 
functions, I find that a device loses 
any beauty it may have gained. The 
most beautiful product is one that 
functions flawlessly. 
Like the age-old saying of “don’t 
judge a book by its cover, ” we 
shouldn’t judge products based solely 
on their aesthetic value. By doing so, 
we encourage companies like Apple to 
disregard the consumer by charging 
us more to pay for their mistakes. BEYOND
 BLUE  LIVES  
Alicia Garza, Opal Tometi and Patrisse Cullors — better known as the 
founders of #BlackLivesMatter — have undoubtedly catalyzed a discussion 
of flaws within the American justice system. Yet in criticizing the racial 
disparity in incarceration rates and the systematic lack of justice for unarmed 
black murder victims, proponents of BLM have faced many who perceive the 
movement’s desire for systematic reform to be a personal attack on officers. 
It may be unsurprising, then, that one such person, Democratic Louisiana 
Gov. John Bel Edwards, recently signed into effect a bill that will effectively 
consider police officers a protected class — a status normally reserved for 
those consistently targeted due to immutable qualities like gender, sexual 
orientation, disability, religion and creed. In doing so, Louisiana’s response to 
calls for greater accountability discourages further discussion, and as a result 
furthers disparities in justice based on race. 
HB 953, according to CNN, was created in response to the on-duty 
shooting of Texas Sheriff Darren Goforth last August, allegedly because he 
was a law enforcement officer. But unlike the deaths of Eric Garner, Michael 
Brown, Tamir Rice and a list of other unarmed African-American victims, 
his death is not indicative of a dangerous trend in the way police lives are 
perceived. As reported by the W ashington Post, police deaths have decreased 
from an average of a yearly 127 deaths in the 1970s to 57 total deaths between 
2000 and 2009. Put plainly, law enforcement officers have not been shown to 
face consistent, ongoing and unchanged targeting. Those in occupations that 
have been shown to be at higher risk of danger, like taxi drivers — who are 30 
times more likely to be killed while working — are still, rightly, not specified 
as a protected class. As stated by Bhairavi Desai, executive director of the New York Taxi Workers Alliance, an incident 
like Goforth’s is “an occupational safety matter, not a hate crime. ” Having 
it any other way would draw a line so blurry that it would mar existing 
protections based on gender, sexual orientation, nationality, creed 
and religion: groups whose members are threatened explicitly due to 
these immutable qualities. As put by a criminologist at Northeastern 
University, such federal reclassification of police officers could “very well 
dilute the hate crime law so that it is weakened beyond repair. ”
Not to mention that, #BlueLivesMatter aside, 37 states already have 
legislation enacting stricter penalties for assaulting police officers. T ake New 
Yor k ,  w h e re ,  a c c ord i n g  t o  t h e  D e at h  Pe n a lt y  L aw  C e nt e r,  c onv i c t i on  of  t h e  
aggravated murder of a police officer yields a mandatory life sentence without 
parole. In some states, the same conviction is grounds for the death penalty. It 
is clear that there are systems in place to hold accountable those who assault 
and murder officers of law. However, it is not clear that there are systems to 
hold accountable officers who shoot and kill unarmed victims. This widespread 
injustice has been shown by the grand jury’s decision of non-indictment — 
one which, according to the Bureau of Justice Statistics, is made for 11 out of 
162,000 prosecutions in 2015 — in the deaths of Eric Garner and Michael 
Brown, both of whom were unarmed. It has been shown in the acquittal of 
George Zimmerman, who was not charged in the murder of unarmed Travyon 
Martin. It is shown in statistics by the W ashington Post reporting that while the 
black population of the United States is 13 percent, 26 percent of victims of fatal 
shootings are black.
    Given the decline in murder rates of law BY QUINN PIEPER // OPINION EDITOR
ILLUSTRA TION    B Y   CHRISTINA   CARLSON
Restrictions On House Rental Companies in San Diego 
Neglect to Effectively Address Lack of Affordable HousingAs Long as House Renters Omit Taxes Paid by Hotels, 
Officials Have A Right to Enforce Stricter RegulationSee #BLM, page 5With a decrease in the murder rate of law enforcement officers — and 
protections already in place for their assault — the move to consider 
police a protected class conflates occupational danger and hate crime.6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 31, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
enforcement officers and the rise of 
activism in #BlackLivesMatter, the 
rhetoric of #BlueLivesMatter and 
support for police being a protected 
class illustrate that activists’ desire 
for accountability and reform are 
incorrectly perceived as personal and 
aggressive. It was, after all, police-
union leaders and law-enforcement 
organizations who, according to Fader, 
attempted to boycott the Miami leg of 
Beyonce’s Formation world tour. In 
the artist’s most recent visual album, 
Lemonade, a sample of Malcom X 
and a scene in which three mothers 
mourn hold portraits of their sons, all 
of whom were unarmed when they 
were killed by officers, are two devices 
through which Beyonce criticizes 
the justice system. Though Beyonce 
does not advocate for violence against 
police officers, the fact that people have misinterpreted her art as doing 
so shows a refusal to listen to the 
messages of #BlackLivesMatter.
    Even so, resistance to civil rights 
activism is nothing new. Reported 
by the Washington Post, the 
perception of the 1965 March on 
Washington varied drastically across 
race. According to a Harris survey, 
94 percent of African-American 
respondents rated the movement as 
a positive move toward civil rights. 
Of white participants asked the year 
after, however, 36 percent believed it 
had resulted in positive change and 
50 percent said it had instead hurt 
the cause. Though Louisiana’s Blue 
Lives Matter is said to be created on 
behalf of certain deaths, its counter-
Black Lives Matter namesake and 
its usage by those resisting criticism 
of law enforcement clarify that 
the legislation is made not for the 
sake not of increasing protection but for diverting demands for 
accountability.
    The problem with HB 953 is that 
“Blue Lives” have already been shown 
to matter, through the effective and 
stricter punishments placed on those 
who attack law enforcement officers. 
What still needs to be clarified is a fair 
judiciary process for those killed by 
police; those with concerns for this 
process are instead met with counter-
protests that ignore their cause. Even 
if police officers were specifically 
targeted, extending protected 
class distinctions to them not only 
prioritizes them over other workers 
facing as much or greater danger on 
the job, but would also establish that 
protections in the United States are 
based not on discrimination but on 
fear of being held accountable.
JUNE 3 • 3-6PM • RIMAC FIELDKETTLE
MASTER
KETTLE KORNDOGGOS
GUSCHURROS
EL TIGREDELICIOSO
TACOSAddition of Police As Protected Class May Distort Criteria for Hate Crime
▶ #BLM from page 4
LIKE US ON
 FACEBOOK
facebook.com/ucsdguardianWORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
QUINN  PIEPERF
Kriti Sarin, News Editor Until I was in second grade, I always sat in the front of the classroom. At first, I only did this because 
my parents told me to, but eventually I did it because I couldn’t read the board from farther behind. 
Several of my friends also moved up to the first few rows for the same reason, so I never felt like it was a 
problem, let alone an indication that I was myopic. I was so used to things around me being slightly blurry 
that I didn’t even know or remember that they were supposed to be well-defined.
Eventually, my parents and teachers noticed that I kept squinting to see things that weren’t that far 
away from me. I started wearing glasses and my whole world changed immediately. Suddenly, I could 
see petals on flowers and craters on the moon. Everything was crisp and bright. 
In retrospect, my first six months in college were a lot like the years I spent without glasses. New 
friends, the quarter system and unconditional freedom kept me busier than I had ever been in my 
life. I thought there was no way I could be happier — but I had no idea what I was missing until 
I joined the UCSD Guardian.
Even though most people at the Guardian associate my work with news, I fell in love with 
the paper during my time as a copy reader. Not only was I able to read and appreciate content 
from every section of the newspaper, but I was also right in the middle of the action during 
production days. Shifts at the office instantly became the highlight of my week, and staff 
members quickly became my best friends. 
When I joined the news team, I felt an unprecedented sense of fulfillment. I went 
from being indifferent toward campus events to being the first person at the scene. 
I learned about and raised awareness for issues that mattered. More importantly, I 
became accountable to someone other than myself. After a few months, I became 
section editor and had the opportunity to share my love for news writing (and 
the Guardian in general) with other students. I learned even more as an editor 
than I did as a writer, and the news section became stronger than ever with 
support from other editors and talented new recruits. I still can’t believe 
there were only three writers in news when I joined; now, there are about 
a dozen, and each of them has helped me grow in one way or another. 
The skills, knowledge and experience I have gained during my 
time at the Guardian are invaluable, but your company is what I’ll 
remember the most. Thank you all so much for supporting me in 
tough times, pushing me to be unstoppable and encouraging me to 
step outside my comfort zone. Y ou are the most vibrant, selfless, 
dedicated, principled, compassionate group of people I have 
ever known, and it has been such an incredible honor to be 
one of you. Good luck next year; I know you’ll continue to 
inspire others the way you’ve always inspired me.
I sat in Doug Carlone’s office, next 
to Jennifer Mancano and across 
from Doug. I had just blurted out 
this impassioned verbiage on 
why the UCSD Guardian 
doesn’t need an advisor 
and shouldn’t have one. 
Long story short, I 
believed, and still 
do believe, that 
our independence — 
i.e., lack of an advisor 
— forces us to make the 
best version of ourselves: To 
cover all our bases and to not 
take slip-ups lightly. It’s on us as a 
staff to uphold our integrity and we 
know that we could never fall back on 
one individual to save the day. We ride the 
highs and lows together, and we solve problems 
together, as a team.
I didn’t expect my outpouring of emotions toward 
the Guardian, and neither did Doug nor Jennifer. We 
sat there in silence for a quick second, and while they were 
nodding, I realized something that I hadn’t realized before: I 
actually cared about the Guardian. And I had taken my first three 
years with the paper for granted.
During my first three years, I had been so focused on my 
section that I had failed to see the bigger picture. I didn’t ask 
myself what I was doing at the Guardian, what my purpose was 
to the student body and what the paper, an outlet for student expression, could improve upon to be more inclusive of all 
perspectives. I failed to see the impact that we could make as the 
student newspaper because I was caught up in the day-to-day 
hustle of printing a paper twice a week. It is an extremely difficult 
job and one that could only be so well-done by a truly incredible 
staff. My role as editor in chief, though, gave me a much needed 
perspective on the Guardian. From this position, I was able to 
see what the Guardian could be and where it could go. From this 
position, I was able to foster and incubate new sections while 
bestowing trust in my editors to work with the utmost diligence 
for a high-quality paper. Unfortunately, these concrete reflections 
came too late and I wasn’t able to have these transformative 
revelations with current staff. But fortunately, I am able to share 
them here.
For the Guardian’s future staff, these are my lessons learned: 
Take a step back and reflect. Make it a priority. It may be easy 
to fall into the monotony of the news cycle, but we should 
remember that we ourselves need to be inspired and passionate 
about what we do. Part of that comes from being able to look at 
our past work more holistically rather than from issue to issue. 
And part of being able to do so is sharing leadership roles. I 
have had the great fortune of having 30-plus editors, associates, 
assistants and directors to work with who carry with them their 
own touch of what leadership looks like, and that uniqueness to 
their roles made the Guardian all the better. I cannot emphasize 
the importance of having such a hard-working staff because it 
would be an understatement to say that without them, there is 
no Guardian. 
Avoid complacency at all costs. When we are provided the 
space to think and reflect, there comes a moment that we can 
truly seize, and that is the moment for change. At many times within the Guardian, I was given pre-existing methods to do 
things and followed the norm. It was straightforward, it was 
methodically laid out and it worked. My ambition for “new” 
within the Guardian was effectively put on low. Academics and 
other extracurricular commitments piled up and stoking my 
desire to change the status quo was difficult. But it does not have 
to be that way and we should not be that way. Complacency will 
not only undermine the Guardian’s quality, but it will slowly eat 
away at us. If we are not further compelled to do great things 
for and with the paper, we will begin to regret the time we’ve 
invested. Rather, if we are able to see the potential within the 
paper and our staff — to see ourselves as vessels of untapped 
talent yearning to be matured — then we will be capable of 
improving ourselves, together.
Y ou have a stake in the Guardian: Embrace it. We are blessed 
with the flexibility of a student-run newspaper and we should 
run with it. If there is ever a time to make tangible any ideas, 
stories, events, thoughts or projects that you believe can be done, 
draw the plans, get a team and make it happen. Be innovative 
— whether in nuanced takes for reporting on events or in ways 
to present media — because that is what is going to help the 
Guardian reach the high expectations we set for ourselves.
And, finally, give thanks. To everyone I have had honor to 
work with for the past four years (that’s quite the list!), thank 
you for including me in the Guardian and letting me learn from 
you all. Especially to this year’s staff. Y ou all have shown me — 
through your own desires, inspirations and creative directions — 
that the Guardian is malleable and can become what we envision 
it to be. Without that drive, I don’t think we’ d be where we are 
today. Without that drive, I don’t think you’ d be so eager to see 
what next year holds. I’ll be watching.
SENIOR
SENDOF SF
vincent 
Pham, Editor-
In-chief                                                                                                                                                                                                    7
Photo by Kenji Bennett // UCSD Guardian
Photo by Christian Duarte // UCSD GuardianWriting for the UCSD Guardian’s news section will easily be one of my most 
treasured experiences from my time at UCSD. Reporting gave me a sense 
of purpose and made me feel more connected with the university. My only regret 
is that I served in the role for just two quarters. Even though I was on staff for a 
short period of time, I know I gained a valuable skillset that will last a lifetime.
News writing has a special place in my heart because it ties in very closely to 
my favorite word: sonder. I interpret this obscure term as “every human being has 
an epic story to tell. ” As a staff writer, I was able to, in a way, use sonder as a tool to understand people’s unique perspectives and get a glimpse of their world. I am 
so thankful for the opportunity I have been given to tell these people’s stories and 
solidify their place in UCSD’s history.
With my time at UCSD coming to an end, I’ d like to give a huge thank you 
to all those at the Guardian who make this publication possible. Without the 
dedication and hard work of all those involved, the rest of the UCSD community 
wouldn’t be as well informed on what is going on in the world around them.
I want to send a tremendous shout-out to my news editors. From day one, 
they’ve always been there for me, answering all the questions I’ve had as I jumped 
headfirst into this new territory. They encouraged all of my work, helped shape 
me to become a better writer, and guided me on this journey.
A sincere thank you goes to my mentor, Nina Kim, who inspired me to get 
involved in journalism. If not for her, I would have never realized how important 
writing is, both as a means of expressing oneself and as a service to the community.
Last, but certainly not least, I am eternally grateful for my family who has 
always been there to care for and support me with all of my endeavors.
Growing up, my mom always pushed me to stay informed with the news. 
Now, because of my time with the Guardian, I can say I’ve played a role in creating 
the news.
Karly Nisson, Arts & Entertainment Editor
Kevin Santos, Senior 
Staff Writer, (News)
I put off joining the UCSD Guardian 
for two years, a delayed decision 
that will remain my biggest regret of my 
college career. Being A&E editor was the first 
real position of power I’ d stepped into, and I 
came in with no real desire to make any changes 
— I was just focused on not messing anything up. 
But we’ve introduced so many new features this year 
and I couldn’t be more proud of everyone in the G for 
making this happen. I’ve been learning (or stumbling, 
rather) as I go, and I believe that we’ve created a true 
community within A&E. Sam and Naftali, I know you’ll do 
amazing things with the section and I hope that you’ll continue 
to approach it not as a hierarchy, but as a group of friends working 
to improve their writing and review media they love (or hate — try 
to get them to hate it a little more for ratings sake).  
Everything the section has accomplished this year can be attributed to 
my staff, whose participation and enthusiasm has made the section what it is. 
Thank you for signing up for features with little or no direction and allowing 
my “songs of the week” dream to come to fruition. Our meetings were legendary 
and I’m not sorry for all of the strange icebreakers and ridiculously off-topic mid-
meeting conversations — though there were always a few announcements to get out of 
the way, our get-togethers were always meant to build a community. I hope you were all 
able to take away from them the kinds of relationships I’ve been able to find here at the G. 
I’ll end my send-off with some final, but necessary shout-outs: Jacqueline, I hadn’t 
realized how organized you were until I became editor and lost track of everything — I can’t 
remember the last time I updated the concerts spreadsheet and I’m pretty sure I haven’t come 
through on a single thing Vincent’s requested (sorry Vincent). But the structure you set up, from 
the spreadsheets to early deadlines, is a work of art in itself, and I know it will provide support and 
confidence to all future A&E editors. 
Definite Vegas Carpool, thank you for being the hilarious bunch of misfits you’ve been all year. From 
ramen runs during rush hour and arguments over driving Sam home, I’ll miss everything. To the news team, 
for allowing me to write about diseases every week, providing me the opportunity to finally snag a research 
position and enduring my authoritarian demands. To Tina, who put up with my sassy edit comments and 
helped me shape A&E into everything it became, I know you’ll continue to improve the Guardian with Jennifer 
and Marcus next year and maintain the close-knit family I was so lucky to be a part of. To Vincent, who asked me to 
define the role of an editor in chief at the beginning of the year: I couldn't answer you then, but I now know that you 
are the model of what an EIC should be. Thank you for lending us the freedom and support that’s allowed us to develop 
— your organization and charisma have done absolute wonders for the G. 
To Joselynn, for never actually quitting and loving Courtney Barnett just as much as I did. To Olga and Brittney, for 
being part of my Weekend team and enduring unexpected adlines with me every week. And to Jacky, for offering me unlimited 
support and perspectives — I couldn’t have made it throughout the year without you. I’ve run out of words, but to anyone I haven’t 
mentioned, know you were invaluable to my time at the G and I will miss you all as I go on to explore new paths. 
A&E editor is a messy job — there are so many writers and opportunities to keep track of, but I think you’ll find that, amid 
forgotten press pass requests and unfortunate typos, comes with incredible rewards.Myrah Jaffer, 
Advertising DirectorI first 
started 
out at the UCSD 
Guardian in the year 
2015 and honestly was so 
incredibly grateful to be given such 
a high position of advertising director. It 
was one of the best experiences I've had at my 
time here at UCSD. I had the pleasure to work with 
great individuals such as Vincent Pham, Jennifer Mancano, 
my wonderful advertising representatives and many more. The 
advertising representatives I was able to work with, including Molly Chen, 
Caroline Lee, Sabrina Lee and Jessica Do, have been a great help and team to 
have worked with. Their efforts for the advertising department at the Guardian were 
unbeatable. Through my personal experience at the Guardian I learned a lot about how 
a newspaper really works and how all these different departments are necessary 
to pull together a quality paper like the Guardian. In my advertising director 
role at the Guardian I was able to expand on my management skills 
and was lucky enough to get a hands-on experience in the field 
I love the most, advertising. This opportunity gave me 
a lot of space to grow and educate myself on what 
to expect out in the real working world. The 
Guardian newspaper is special to me and 
I wouldn't change my experience 
working for the Guardian in 
any way. I will forever 
cherish my 
memories 
here.
8     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 31, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
Photo by Megan Lee // UCSD Guardian
Photo by Christian Duarte // UCSD GuardianIn fall, my roommates kept asking where I was. They never saw me in our apartment, because I 
would leave it in the morning and would not come back home until late at night. Two quarters 
later they stopped inquiring about my whereabouts, as now they know that if I am not home, it is 
safe to say that I am at the UCSD Guardian office. For me, this six-room space, humbly located 
on the second floor of the Original Student Center, turned from a working area into the main 
place on campus.
A year ago, I came into the office for the first time, when my lovely editor Nilu Karimi decided 
to show me where all the journalist magic was done. Scared off by a hubbub of loudly asked 
questions, last-minute instructions and laughter, I found shelter in the design room, where I 
met my dear friend Joselynn. As I started showing up to the office on a regular basis, I got 
used to a lively working atmosphere that started to excite me and got me coming back every 
Wednesday. It was also my willingness to spend more time at the office that motivated me 
to apply for an editorial position.
As a Lifestyle editor, I started living in the office. I have been coming there every 
day between classes to lie down on a couch and listen to some tunes through speakers 
while sipping on iced Vietnamese coffee picked up from the Art of Espresso coffee 
cart. For me, the office was a library, a nap room and even a restaurant (shout 
out to Postmates; your price is way too high, you need to cut it). At the office I 
heard some bad personal news, read about important on-campus events and 
talked about national-level hot topics with other writers and editors.     
During my third and final year at UCSD, I realized that the Guardian 
office is more than just a physical space — it is a place where I have 
been learning, constantly discussing and creating with open-minded, well-
versed individuals. There have been numerous times when I came into the 
office without any particular goal in mind, but ended up debating politics and 
exchanging views on new music albums. Being involved in such a productive 
information exchange allowed me to recognize the importance of student spaces. 
However, recently, our administration has forgotten that a college campus does 
not only consist of classrooms and dorms. Without spaces like the C.H.E. Cafe, 
Groundwork Books, the International Center and the Guardian office, the university is 
unable to provide resources that are necessary to make students truly educated, active and 
happy (let’s not forget about mental health) individuals. Knowing how much I have learned 
and accomplished within the walls of the Guardian office, I very much hope that thanks to 
the efforts of current and future students, the office, together with other valuable recreational 
and resource centers, will still be here, in the Original Student Center in five, 10 or even 20 years. 
And yeah, Guardians, let’s keep it clean too. 
Long live the Guardian office!   
If you don’t know me, I’m the one who usually sits quietly in the corner of the room. It was like 
that in the first A&E meeting I attended, and it remained pretty much the same over two years 
later, aside from a few sarcastic barbs here or there. But whether people know it or not, the UCSD 
Guardian meant a lot to me, because there’s something truly gratifying about finding a community 
of people who love to put words down on a page. They can be vastly different in what they like, 
where they’re from and even what they care about. But there’s that inherent solidarity — that one 
thread that we all share — binding us together.
To its credit, the Guardian, or more aptly the people within it, challenged me in my own writ -
ing process. I came in doubting my abilities, and I still do! I even considered quitting a couple 
times. However, the difference is that now I hold a greater confidence in my own creative voice, 
believing that I actually have something to bring to the table. Imagine that. My own personal 
blogging (yes, my blog’s called 4 Star Films), as well as opportunities afforded to me by the 
paper, have given me a passion to not just write, not just critique, but to get others thinking 
about deeper issues altogether.
I’m not much for commanding attention, but for me words provide an avenue, and for 
the last two years or so I’ve been fairly prolific. I write something nearly every day. Most of 
it people will never see — it’s floating out in cyberspace somewhere, but I’m content know -
ing that I wrote it. So maybe someday, when some random person across the globe happens 
across a Retrospective on “Tree of Life” or a blog post about Ingmar Bergman’s “Winter Light, ” 
it might germinate even a seed for further conversation, exploration and personal awakening. 
Maybe it just puts them to sleep!
Either way, I want to continue to laugh at stupid things, build meaningful relationships and pur -
sue things that matter to me. That’s what college is about, that’s what the Guardian helped instigate, 
and I hope that those types of things will be defining factors in my life. I’ll leave you with a quote from 
Soren Kierkegaard, because he sums up my hopes a lot better than I ever could!
“What the age needs is awakening. And therefore someday, not only my writings but my whole life, 
all the intriguing mystery of the machine will be studied and studied. I never forget how God helps me 
and it is therefore my last wish that everything may be to His honor. ”
Tynan Yanaga, Senior Staff Writer (A &E)Dieter Joubert, Senior Staff Writer, (A &E)
“It was the best of times, it was the worst of times. ” I’ve always found crafting a clever opening 
line to be the hardest part of writing an article, so it feels very gratifying to open my senior 
send-off with a cliched-as-hell quotation. 
But the sentiment stands. At times, UCSD has been a dream come true, a place to see all the 
variety and potential life has to offer. Other times, I would’ve preferred to be anywhere else in 
the world.
As the reigning, and self-declared, champion of duration spent as a staff writer at the 
Guardian, the G has truly been the constant throughout my time at UCSD. Of course, it too has 
mirrored this duality. 
But only to some extent. While having to abandon an editor position early in my time at the G 
to focus on the more important things in life still remains a big “what if ” in my mind, at its best 
the Guardian has been a second home and a gateway to be engaged with the campus.
And it’s a reminder that life is rarely a straightforward line with clear signposts and 
destinations. As somebody who thought they would abandon journalism after high school 
(perhaps it’s unfair to actual journalists to lump them together with high-school “journalism”), 
it’s a reminder to keep that Sisyphean struggle going.
To my peers, my A&E peeps and my Definite Vegas Carpool, thank you for all you’ve done. 
It is time to move on. But please don’t consider this an end, for the journey does not end here.
Olga Golubkova, Lifestyle Editor THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 31, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  910     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 31, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
Stories: Everyone has one and everyone tells 
theirs differently. That is what I learned 
during my time at the UCSD Guardian. As 
marketing co-director for the G, I had the chance 
to oversee all articles posted to the Guardian’s 
social media channels. With each article I read, 
the more I learned about our diverse campus, the 
ambitious students here and the talented writers 
who tell their stories.
From UC tuition hikes, campus occupations, 
and featured artists and athletes on campus to 
movie, music and eatery reviews across San 
Diego, the UCSD Guardian has it covered. 
Each Guardian staffer dedicates their time and 
talent to keep students aware of what is going 
on in the world around them. The Guardian 
isn’t simply just a news outlet, it is a platform 
for students to get their voices heard and 
stories told.
To me, the most impactful story brought to 
light by the Guardian was about homeless students on our campus. As college students we are 
constantly in between classes, work and late-night study sessions at Geisel; so it is easy to overlook 
the issues that are right in front of us. Like many students, I never would have imagined that my 
fellow Tritons were struggling to find a place to sleep at night. This story made it to Facebook 
where it gained a lot of attention, responses, and support from students and faculty. Getting this 
story out there may not have fixed the issue of student homelessness but it started a conversation 
that in my hopes will, in time, ignite a resolution.
What rhymes with Facebook? Feedback … well, it may not rhyme in Dr. Seuss’s terms, but 
they go hand in hand. Let me explain, most articles I post to the Guardian’s Facebook page 
elicit a response. Feedback is always expected and encouraged on Facebook. Whether positive 
or negative, they are appreciated. As a news source it is so important to maintain neutrality and 
provide a forum for followers to voice their opinions. Besides, comments bring more traction to 
our site, and as the marketing co-director, I love that!So I suppose this is the part where I share my story. When I transferred to UCSD two years 
ago, I immediately knew that I wanted to get involved with the Guardian. It took some time, but I 
made it as the marketing director in Fall 2015. I cherish my time spent in creative meetings with 
Editor-in- Chief Vincent Pham and my Marketing Co-Director Peter McInnis. No idea was too big 
or wacky for us to handle. When your Editor-in-Chief is up all night making homemade cold brew 
to pass out to readers for free, or when he lets you hold a concert in the middle of the office, then 
you could say we are pretty committed to marketing to our readers. In the six months I have been 
with the Guardian, we have garnered over 1,000 new followers on our Facebook page. Maybe it’s 
due to the free coffee, or maybe it’s just the tenacious staff at the G; whatever the reason, I know the 
Guardian’s success will continue to grow. It has been an absolute pleasure working for the UCSD 
Guardian. As I graduate and prepare for the real world, I will take my memories and skills learned 
along the way with me. It is my hopes that I end up working for a newspaper, with staffers at least 
half as cool as you all.
PS. The inner marketer in me has to say, like the UCSD Guardian on Facebook!
I  joined the best section of the UCSD Guardian my sophomore year, knowing very 
little about the actual sports teams here at UCSD; the extent of my knowledge entailed 
having attended three UCSD basketball games my freshman year. What I did know at the time 
was that our school was known for a great many things, with sports not being one of them. As I started my 
career as a fledgling sports writer for the Guardian, I came to realize that we actually had some very decent 
teams playing in the NCAA Division II, yet they had very little recognition. Now, just a few weeks before my 
graduation, the UCSD student body voted to pass the referendum to take our school to Division I. What a 
time to be alive. 
Although I know not everyone at UCSD thinks of the move into Division I as something positive, I really 
hope that they come to embrace it and try to take pride in having their school compete in the highest division 
of athletics and academia. Our university is too split up into individual colleges, where the students take pride 
in being residents of their respective colleges and forget that they are actually Tritons first. My hope is that this 
transition into a Division-I school will keep our foundations as a school the same but will change the school 
community into a more unified student body which will take pride in being Tritons, regardless of which of 
the six colleges they are part of. In the end, it is crucial to realize that despite all of our differences, we are all 
a part of the same undergraduate student party that idolizes Triton, parties it up for Sun God Festival, and is 
just trying to figure out what to do in our corner of the universe. 
I’m not leaving UCSD with many regrets. I have honestly really enjoyed all of my four undergraduate years 
(yes, that means I enjoyed ALL of four Sun Gods I went to). I have made some of the best friends I could ask 
for and with them I have been able to make some of the best memories of my life. The one regret I do have is 
not being able to attend a Division-I game at UCSD as an undergraduate and witnessing the intensity of the 
yearly Spirit Nights at a weekly level and consistency. I look forward to seeing how the Division I transition 
will change the spirit and community of UCSD in the upcoming years. Shock ‘em Tritons. Hayley Asturias, 
Marketing Co-Director
Gurkirat Gary Singh, Senior Staff Writer, (Sports)I remember the first time I read the UCSD Guardian newspaper. It was a sunny day, and I, an international freshman, was sitting near 
Tapex in Price Center alone as usual. The stack of Guardian newspapers by the automatic door attracted my attention, and I thought 
of joining after reading an issue. Y et, I wondered if I was able to write good articles in English, given that I had just arrived in the United 
States at that point. I also worried about whether I could fit in. It wasn’t until last year when I accidentally met the former editor of the Arts 
& Entertainment section in a Jane Austen class that I finally decided to join the Guardian. I thought it was a sign that I should embrace 
the challenge and try something new. My decision was proved right. I was able to improve my English writing with all the help from my 
editors. Moreover, being a part of the Guardian made me feel that I belonged to the UCSD community at last. As an A&E writer, 
I had the opportunities to watch movies before they were officially released, and to even interview the actors. I never 
thought that any of this was possible in the past. The 14 months I spent with the Guardian have been wonderful, 
and now it is hard to say goodbye.
I know many international students who would like to join the Guardian but worry 
about whether their English is good enough to write for a newspaper. If you have 
the same concern, stop hesitating and join today! This is a place where you 
can make friends and learn a wide range of things, from writing to 
communication. Guardian staffers are incredibly nice people 
who would help and stand by you. Joining the Guardian 
is one of the best decisions that I have made 
during my undergraduate years.Yidian Huang, Senior Staff Writer, (A &E)
Photo by Kenji Bennett // UCSD Guardian THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 31, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
Usually my work in the UCSD Guardian has been seen through images rather than words. But in 
this last issue I just want to say thanks to all the photographers who have worked with in the past 
four years. Whether you were my editor or I was your editor, we all sacrificed time and energy for 
our passion for photography. I would also like to thank the staff as a whole on the Guardian 
because, looking back at the Flickr and my hard drive, the assignments have allowed me 
to have views and experiences I could have only dreamed of coming into UCSD. 
Congratulations seniors and to those continuing undergrads, enjoy the ride.  
P. S .  To  s e e  m y  c u r r e n t  a d v e n t u r e s  g i v e  @ j o n g a o  a  f o l l o w  o n  I n s t a g r a m !Jonathan Gao, 
Photo Editor
If I could describe my experience here at UCSD in one word it would be: revision. As a photographer for the UCSD
 Guardian, I have had the privilege to document happenings on campus for two years. I have watched the campus 
revise itself time and time again, but what I didn’t realise was the revision that was also happening to the person 
behind the camera. From baseball games, to student-led protests to A.S. elections, I have seen a lot of the 
campus revisions through my lens. It has been amazing to watch this university change and grow over 
such a brief time, but it has also been cool to look back and slowly recognize that I am not the 
same person I was when I first transferred here. When I first came to UCSD as a transfer 
student, I was searching for opportunities to get involved on campus and working as 
a photojournalist for the Guardian was a perfect fit. Above all, this experience 
taught me to appreciate the small moments that may get lost in the shuffle of 
life and how to truly slow down and relax for a moment even though 
life keeps moving at a fast pace. Thank you to everyone who has 
made these last two years so incredible and for giving me 
the room to grow and try new things. To everyone still 
going through school, don’t forget to ditch class 
every once in a while and make a memory 
with your best friends, because you’ll 
look back on these days and 
remember the good times 
that can’t be blotted 
out by exams or 
GPAs.
As a staff photographer, I’ d like to 
express my thanks to the UCSD 
Guardian for always being the first to 
inform me of the freshest of news, as well 
as for offering me countless opportunities to 
witness and capture such newsworthy moments 
most intimately.  Every event that I have attended 
in the name of the Guardian has given me quite the 
adrenaline rush.  From shooting in the pit my sophomore 
year at Sun God Festival, to meeting and greeting the UCSD 
alumni of Wong Fu Productions on my birthday, to capturing 
the moment the renowned filmmaker James Cameron received 
the Nierenberg Prize, to snapping away at photogenic animals with 
fellow staffers every year at the San Diego Zoo, it has been a privilege 
to experience it all up-close and an honor to have my work published and 
in the hands of peers campus-wide.  I will look back years from now, and 
(especially!) reminisce over those nights that I have stood within performers’ spit 
and percolating sweat ... those concerts where I have massacred my poor ears’ little 
hair cells from standing literally inches away from performers and not wearing ear 
buds.  Haha... honestly though, I wouldn’t have liked it any other way.
Megan Lao, Senior Staff Photographer It was a real pleasure working with 
the Guardian over my last couple 
years here at UCSD. It was great 
to have my illustrations included 
in the newspaper, both appreciated 
by the staff of the Guardian as well 
as the student body. I was part of a 
great illustration team! It was a lot 
of fun to incorporate my style into 
illustrations about news stories and 
it was especially fun to illustrate for 
the arts and entertainment section. 
Overall, it was great to experience 
illustrating for a publication, and I 
recommend it to incoming students 
who are interested in drawing and 
illustration. The editors are incredibly 
supportive and appreciative of the 
hard work you put in.Jenna McCloskey, Senior Artist 
Emily Tipton, Senior
Staff Photographer
12     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 31, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
13  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 31, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
CONTACT THE EDITOR
OLIVER KEL TON
features@ucsdguardian.org
Introduction
We live in a rapidly changing and exciting time, on the forefront of a movement toward vast interconnection through social media — an entire generation communicating with each other 
with unprecedented ease. The children of Facebook, Reddit, Snapchat, Tumblr and a million other media outlets are coming into their adulthood and into the political sphere, leaving the fate 
of the country to a culture dominated by social media. 
To begin the investigation on social media’s impact, if any, over the youth, the UCSD Guardian released a poll asking students where their political information comes from. Half of the 366 
responses listed “Social Media” as one of their primary news source. There is obviously an impact, the effects of which are bound to be unique. 
Out With the Old, In With the New
According to political science and communication professor Daniel Hallin, social media is not new to the political stage. Hallin, who 
has a Ph.D in political science from UC Berkeley and specializes in journalism and political communication, told the Guardian that 
social media first started to appear in politics with President Barack Obama’s youth-oriented campaign in 2008. Since then, the presence 
of social media in our lives has only grown.
“The mainstream media are not really gatekeepers like they used to be, ” Hallin observed. “They’ve lost influence, not only to social 
media, but to daytime television and other communicators. ”
Nationally, commercial journalism has been struggling to stay afloat in a new mediascape defined by free-flowing information. Enter 
Donald Trump and Bernie Sanders — two personalities Hallin says are notorious for their outsider politics and refusal to play by the 
rules — and mainstream media is facing a crisis.
Hallin describes old media as a system in which politicians had to play by the rules of the party in order to win precious air time for 
their campaigns. Today, media outlets such as the New Y ork Times and CNN are no longer the only opportunities for politicians to make 
their voices heard. With the rise of social media as an alternative channel of information, mainstream journalism has lost its grip on the 
American people. According to Hallin, Trump’s viral tweets represent a revolution in media, in which outsider politicians can gain a large 
following by communicating more directly with voters through social media.
Ye t  w it h  g re at  p ow e r  c om e s  g re at  re s p on s i bi l it y,  an d  s o c i a l  m e d i a ,  a s  an  i n f lu e nt i a l  s ou rc e  of  n e w s ,  h a s  n ot  b e e n  i m mu n e  f rom  profe s s i on a l  
criticism. Gizmodo.com, a popular tech blog, broke a story earlier this month stating that Facebook employees had consistently suppressed 
conservative news stories from reaching the presumably unbiased “Trending” sidebar located to the right of users’ Facebook pages.
According to a Facebook post by founder and CEO of the platform, Mark Zuckerberg, Trending Topics is “designed to surface the 
most newsworthy and popular conversations on Facebook. ” However, an internal investigation revealed that some employees acted on 
personal judgment to remove conservative stories from appearing as Trending Topics.
Hallin states that stories such as these reveal the truth of new media platforms.
“ A lot of these tech companies are in the media content business now, and they don’t like to think of themselves that way, ” the 
professor explains, “The truth is that they are producing media content. They are making journalistic choices, and I suspect that more of 
that is going to become explicit. ”
New media platforms, while flashier and more exciting, are not free from the issue of bias present in traditional newsrooms. Nationally 
viewable Snapchat stories depicting caucuses or candidate debates may increase the amount of youth engaged in politics, but one must 
keep in mind the person sitting behind a computer at Snapchat’s headquarters, deciding what stories will be viewed by potentially millions 
of voters. Editorial choices such as these are being made across a variety of social media platforms by non-professional journalists.
The Battleground
Perhaps the most difficult product of social media to avoid is the internet meme. Memes have permeated our culture, impacting nearly 
every aspect of our social lives and giving birth to an entirely new slang and sense of humor. And now, as youth are entering the world of 
politics, they are bringing memes with them, with sites like Facebook and Reddit that are riddled with political memes like the “Bernie 
Sanders Dank Memes, ” or the “Ted Cruz Zodiac Killer” memes. Could this seemingly lighthearted tactic of promoting a candidate 
actually have a great deal of influence over our political stances?
Eleanor Roosevelt College senior Armand Shahidi has some ideas. Wrapped in an American flag blowing in the wind, Shahidi manned 
a Trump campaign table on Library Walk. When asked how he thought that Facebook has affected the current election, he answered 
without hesitation: “It’s the primary battleground in this election. ”
“Today in the digital age, we have a lot of people producing memes, a lot of them are totally inaccurate, but they are very influential, ” 
Shahidi said. 
He views the process as an example of memetic warfare — the practice of bombarding the opponent with symbols and sound bites. 
“If you see it long enough on your newsfeed, if you see it often, you may end up thinking it’s true even if you don’t believe in it, ” 
Shahidi theorized. 
▶ See NEW MEDIA,  page 14Politics 2.0: Navigating New Media
Written by Tia Ikemoto // Editorial Assistant
and Harrison Lee // Contributing Writer
Illustrations by Christina Carlson
14  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 31, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
Dr. Terranova, Dr. Sherman, and Dr. Horne
TORREY PINES
DENTAL ARTS
We welcome UCSD Staff & Students
Richard L Sherman DDS
Steven B. Horne DDS
Scripps/Ximed Medical Center
9850 Genessee Avenue #720
La Jolla, CA 92037
858-453-5525
Info@TorreyPinesDentalArts.com
www.TorreyPinesDentalArts.com'"! $! $
$""
'"	!# !
'%""!
 !
'
!&!! #!
 " !! "	!
"	#!CONGRATULATIONS
CLASS OF 2 016
 TO THE
BERNADETTE NGUYEN
MADE TO ORDER
TRITON OUTFITTERSAVP ENTERPRISES & SERVICES
TRITON OUTFITTERSJOHNNY LEE
TRITON OUTFITTERSDANI NGUYEN
GOOD LUCK GRADS!WE’LL MISS YOUUpcoming at
Upcoming at
ROUND TABLE 
FRIDAYS:
Friday, Jun. 3  
1pm-4pm  
Round Table Patio  
$!&$%&, FREEROUND TABLE
FRIDAYStheloft.ucsd.edu
universitycenters.ucsd.eduUNIVERSITY CENTERS 
PRESENTS:
ZOOTOPIA
Thursday, Jun. 2  
""$%
# ,")
#  
&$,FREE
UNIVERSITY CENTERS 
PRESENTS:
ELDERBROOK
Tuesday, May 31  
""$%# ,")#  
"& 
Free for Students,  
$10 General
CELEBRATE 
NATIONAL  
DONUT DAY
Friday, Jun. 3  
(!& ,PC Plaza
FREE while they last!  
%&*"%%%
W\RXU YLV
GET A FREE
4UOTE TODAYLRQ
RXU PLVVLRQ
PDGHWRRUGHU#XFVGHGXCreate custom apparel
to promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972The Filter
Facebook is famous for its 
capacity to spread information like 
wildfire, helping people mobilize 
on a vast scale. In presidential 
races, where youth engagement 
can help a candidate get nominated 
and elected, Facebook is an 
indispensable tool for reaching the 
new generation — here, the UCSD 
College Democrats use Facebook to 
mobilize and inform students. 
“Social media has been a great 
tool for us in attracting students 
to campaign events, getting them 
registered to vote and providing 
information about local candidates, ” 
Sixth College sophomore Mary 
Latibashvili, a UCSD College 
Democrat, said. “We recently 
uploaded a voter guide on all the local 
Democratic candidates and ballot 
propositions, and it’s already been 
seen by over a thousand students. ”
Although not many people would 
deny the advantages of social media 
in being able to mobilize people and 
spread information, social media is 
not flawless. Marshall senior Graham 
Elliot, a member of Tritons for Bernie, 
spoke to the Guardian about his views 
on social media, emphasizing that 
he was speaking not for Tritons for 
Bernie but for himself. He worries 
about the efficacy of using sites like 
Facebook to get political information.
 “People need to basically beware 
the filter, ” Elliot warned. “Facebook 
shows you the things that it thinks 
you want to see. ”
Elliot isn’t alone in this opinion. 
A recent New Y ork Times article 
titled “The W ay Facebook W arps Our 
World, ” by Frank Bruni, explores the 
algorithms of Facebook and the way 
we may doom ourselves when we look 
to Facebook for unbiased information. Responding to a recent story that 
revealed Facebook employees had 
suppressed conservative news from 
appearing on the Trending Topics 
sidebar, Bruni argues that our own 
selectivity is much worse than the 
actions taken by a few employees. 
“More prevalent for many users 
are the posts we see from friends 
and from other people and groups 
we follow on the network, and this 
information is utterly contingent 
on choices we ourselves make, ” 
Bruni writes.
The issues, as Bruni sees them, 
are that our time online is spent 
“thumbing through favorite websites 
and scrolling through personalized 
feeds … We’re pointed toward 
foregone conclusions, ” warns Bruni. 
“We’re pressured to conform. ”  
He theorizes that people have a 
greater distrust of large institutions, 
no longer relying on the big news 
industries as a source of information. 
“We question their wisdom and 
substitute it with the groupthink 
of micro-communities, many of 
which we’ve formed online, and their 
sensibilities can be more peculiar and 
unforgiving, ” Bruni wrote. 
New Media: Responsible Use
As social media begins to take on 
a more journalistic role in our lives, 
many student activists are cautiously 
optimistic about its ability to engage 
youth in politics. Eleanor Roosevelt 
College senior Codi Vierra, an 
executive director of the nonpartisan 
Student Organized Voter Access 
Committee, believes social media is a 
convenient starting point for students 
looking to get informed.
She suggests reading longform 
articles shared by friends, but says 
to ditch the memes. “I’ve seen a lot 
of memes that are blatantly false, ” 
Vierra explained, “When people put small bits of information out there, 
it can be very misleading. ”
Sixth College junior Felipe 
Cataquiz of College Republicans at 
UCSD advises that students keep 
an open mind while reading news 
from social media. The Cataquiz says 
he has been frustrated by situations 
in which political differences have 
hindered open communication 
between students. 
“The only thing I advocate for is 
people being informed, ” Cataquiz stated. 
Elliot’s final words of advice 
point out the nature of social media 
as a magnifier rather than a filter of 
information.
“I think overall the internet has 
led to more information, but not 
necessarily better information. What’ s 
more important than ever is being able 
to evaluate your sources, ” Elliot said.
Participating in the New Era 
of Politics
Finding credible sources isn’t 
always easy, but Hallin and Elliot 
have a few recommendations. Hallin 
prefers “top legacy media orgs” with 
a history of quality content, such as 
the New Y ork Times and NPR, while 
Elliot embraces bias and suggests 
seeking out a variety of sources 
from across the political spectrum. 
Most importantly, Elliot encourages 
students to read with an open mind.
“Really, the biggest enemy in 
new media and the new ways we’re 
accessing media is our desire to be 
right all the time, ” Elliot reflects. 
“If we can fight that desire and be 
OK with being wrong and changing 
our opinions, we’ll stop seeking 
news that confirms our pre-
existing biases and seek news that 
challenges them instead. ”▶ NEW MEDIA,  from page 13
Tia  Ikemoto   
Harrison  Lee   
Of the remaining candidates, who 
would you vote for in the upcoming 
Presidential Election?
Why?
Where do you primarily obtain your 
political information from?The UCSD Guardian surveyed 366 students to see whom they were voting for and why. Here are the results:
Donald Trump: 43.7%
Bernie Sanders: 34.3%
Hillary Clinton: 13.1%
Not Sure: 5.3%
Not Voting: 2.5%
Ineligible: 1.1%
I like them more than the other 
candidates: 56.5%
Their platform: 55.4%
Other: 43.8%
Their personality: 36.2%
I have heard good things about them: 
28.2%
They are from my poitical party: 
24.3%
Not voting: 2.8%
Primary news sources (i.e. CNN and 
New Y ork Times): 72.1%
Social Media (i.e. Facebook and 
Twitter): 50.4%
Secondary news sources (i.e. Buzzfeed 
and reddit): 42.8%
My family/friends: 29%
Other: 12.1%
I don’t actively obtain political 
information: 2.3%
All graphs and word clouds 
by Ayat Amin // Data Visualization editor  
data@ucsdguardian.org.SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 31, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  15
An accelerated MBA program with embedded 
real world experience could open doors you 
didn’t know were there. 
Keep your options open by taking the GMAT.
Spaces are limited.  Sign up today to guarantee 
yourself a spot in this free 4-week, comprehensive GMAT  
test prep course that can often cost hundreds of dollars.LOOKING FOR YOUR NEXT  
STEP AFTER GRADUATION?pointloma.edu/freeGMATFREE                   
   TEST PREP
Six individuals from UCSD’s 
track and field competed in the 
NCAA Division-II Championships 
this past week. Three males and 
three females traveled to IMG 
Academy Stadium in Brandeton, 
Florida, where they participated 
in the three-day competition. The 
event marked the final outing of all 
2015–16 Triton athletics. 
Day 1Thursday’s opening day involved 
four Tritons. It was highlighted 
by sophomore Matt Bowen’s 
performance in the long jump. With a 
24’5.5 on his third jump, Bowen was 
able to leap from 18th place to 10th, 
his athleticism earning him a spot 
on the All-America Second Team. 
Bowen, however, was unable to get a 
higher score in his next three jumps. 
Junior Dan Golubovic earned 
3,452 points in five events and 
was placed in 15th overall in the 
decathlon. He participated in the shot put, long jump, high jump, 100m run 
and 400m run. He earned the most 
points in the shot put, gaining 741 
points on throwing 41’2.5” . Also, he 
ended up finishing the decathlon in 
the second day and competed in the 
pole vault on the last day. 
Graduating senior Paige Hughes 
completed the 10,000m race in 
37:16:04, placing her at 18th. Hughes’ 
athletic career spanned three years, 
and she has received numerous 
awards and recognition for her 
efforts. She placed seventh overall at the Triton Classic after running six 
kilometers in 22:26:07 and competed 
in three conference championships. 
Junior Chrissi Carr, however, 
failed to clear the beginning height of 
11’11.75 in the pole vault and,  after 
three unsuccessful attempts, tied for 
20th place. 
Day 2
Golubovic was the only Triton 
to compete on day two of NCAA 
Championships, where he added 
3,664 points on the day and nine 
spots in the ranking. In total, he scored 7,116 points and finished sixth 
overall, earning him an All-America 
performance. He won second place 
while shining in the discus throw 
and pole vault, throwing for 137’4” 
and clearing 15’1, ” respectively. He 
also finished third in the javelin 
throw with 187’ . Golubovic improved 
remarkably compared to last year’s 
decathlon NCAA Championships, 
having only finished in 12th. 
Day 3
Three Tritons partook in the final 
day of the NCAA Championships. 
Junior Savanna Forry leapt 5’5.75” 
in the high jump, good enough to 
tie for 11th place, and managed 
to clear the opening height in 
one attempt while taking three in 
5’5.75” . However, her efforts were 
in vain as she was unable to clear 
5’7. Nonetheless, her performance 
gave her All-America Second Team 
honors the second year in a row.
Golubovic competed in the pole 
vault but was unable to record a 
height and, after failing three times 
to clear the opening height of 15’10” , 
tied for 15th. 
Senior Antony Capitulo claimed 
17th place for the second year in a 
row in the javelin throw. His first 
throw recorded a mark of 183’9; on 
the second, he improved to 194’1, 
and he fouled on the third. 
UCSD athletics came to 
an end along with the NCAA 
Championships. Competition will 
surely increase as Tritons look 
towards moving to Division I. Track & Field Finished Season With Strong Showing At NCAA’s
Dan Golubovic earned sixth place in the decathlon and Savanna Forry and Matt Bowen both earn All-America Second Team honors.TRACK & FIELD
BY  A n t h o n y   T z e n g
Anthony  Tzeng   
PHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE/ UCSD  GUARDIANSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
DEV JAIN & MARCUS THUILLIER 
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
16  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , MAY 31, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
The UCSD women’s 
basketball team had an 
extraordinary season, to say 
the least, capping off their 2015–
16 campaign with an overall 26–5 
record. It managed to earn a share 
of the California Collegiate Athletic 
Association regular season title and 
reached the CCAA conference semi-
finals and NCAA West Regional 
quarter-finals. All-American senior 
forward Farrah Shokoor inspired the 
team with tremendous consistent play, 
averaging a double-double with 15.8 
points and 11.8 rebounds. Equally 
impressive, NCAA West Regional 
All-Tournament Team senior guard 
Jamie Katuna averaged 18.3 points, 4.1 
rebounds and 2.5 assists throughout 
the course of the season. 
Regular Season
The Tritons began the season 
brilliantly, with only two losses 
within the first ten games (8–2), 
coming from Cal State Dominguez 
Hills and the University of 
Alaska Anchorage. In particular, 
Dominguez Hills became a tough 
nemesis for UCSD, as both regular-
season meetings ended in defeat for 
the Tritons. However, in no way, 
shape, or form did these defeats 
affect UCSD’s season.
The start of the new year brought 
explosive offensive play from Katuna 
as she piled up career highs in points 
in consecutive games. On January 1, 
the Tritons hosted Humboldt State, 
resulting in a 85–73 win for UCSD. 
The offense was led by Katuna as 
she, at that point in time, earned 
herself a career-high 29 points while shooting 50 percent from the field 
(10–20). In the second game of back-
to-back night action for UCSD, the 
Tritons hosted Cal Poly Pomona. 
Katuna outdid her previous career-
high points performance and 
decided to drop 36 points against 
Cal Poly Pomona, while adding 
seven assists. Sophomore guard 
Taylor Tanita also had herself a 
game as she contributed with her 
first double-double, 12 points and 
10 assists. Nearing the midway point 
of the season, UCSD had become 
unstoppable at home, winning its 
first six games on home court.
The Tritons’ first and only home 
loss during the season came at the 
hands of Cal State Dominguez Hills, 
where the Toros were able to put an 
end to the home undefeated streak 
in a 82–89 loss for the Tritons. 
Unfortunately, the loss came on Spirit 
Night, with 1,674 fans in attendance, 
which was easily the largest attendance 
number of the year for the women’s 
team. Due to a slow start trailing 0–12, 
the Tritons found themselves clawing 
back throughout. The early deficit 
simply was too much as Cal State 
Dominguez Hills played consistently 
from start to finish.  Even behind 
the performances of trio Tanita (21 
points), Katuna (18 points) and junior 
guard Beth Mounier (17 points), the 
Tritons were not able to keep their 
streak alive.  
Following the home loss, UCSD 
ended the remainder of the season 
on a nine-game win streak, sharing 
the regular season title with Cal 
State Dominguez Hills and Cal State East Bay due to all finishing 
with 18–2 conference records. 
Next up would be the conference 
tournament in which the Tritons 
faced Cal Poly Pomona during their 
quarter-final matchup.
Post-Season
UCSD pulled off a 71–60 
win against Cal Poly Pomona at 
home in the conference quarter-
finals, and Katuna was once again 
the big contributor of the night. 
She provided the team with an 
outstanding 29-point performance, 
19 of those points coming in the 
third quarter. The Tritons would 
face Cal State East Bay in the next 
round to attempt to earn a spot in 
the conference final.
For the semi-finals, the Tritons 
traveled up north to Stockton, 
Calif. Unfortunately, the outcome 
did not favor UCSD in a narrow 
overtime loss, 77–79. Shokoor had 
the potential game-tying bucket as 
the buzzer went off but rimmed 
out. Katuna continued her run of 
outstanding performances and added 
another 30 point game while Shokoor 
contributed with a solid 26 points.  
The focus would then shift to the 
NCAA Tournament.
In a rematch of the conference 
semi-final, the Tritons faced Cal 
State East Bay in the first round 
of the NCAA Tournament. This 
time around, the result would be 
much different, as UCSD exacted 
its revenge with a sound 15-point 
win, 74–59; Shokoor earned her 18th 
double-double of the year with 17 
points and 14 rebounds.  Next up would be a match with the host of the 
tournament, Azusa Pacific University.
The Shokoor-led Tritons 
enjoyed a second-round victory 
at the expense of Azusa Pacific 
with the final score of 87–77, as 
Shokoor added one more double-
double to her tally with 25 points 
and 10 rebounds. Katuna was no 
disappointment either, as she put up 
22 points. Their tournament run was 
comfortable to that point. However, 
in the third round, they would be 
sea tested against the University of 
Alaska Anchorage Seawolves.
The Tritons’ last meeting came 
early on in the season, in December, 
and resulted in one of the few losses 
they experienced throughout the 
season during a tightly contested 
72–76 game. 
The third round result was 
no different as the fourth-ranked 
University of Alaska Anchorage ended 
the Tritons’ season in a 72–57 contest. 
Katuna led the Tritons with 20 points 
while teammates Mounier and junior 
forward Cassie MacLeod contributed 
with 14 points and 10 points. 
Seniors 
Next year, the Tritons will be 
without seniors Shokoor and 
Katuna, which leaves two big roles 
to be filled in place of the two West 
Regional All-Tournament team 
players. But, as seen throughout 
the season, UCSD has cultivated a 
highly competitive culture and will 
remain a top team. 
Year  in
summar y
W. BASKETBALL
CCAA Title
CCAA 
Tournament 
Semi- finalists
NCAA 
Sweet 16
daniel  hernandez     Women’s 
Basketball Has A 
Historic Season
Tritons record 26 wins on the season in 
addition to CCAA regular season title. UCSD 
also reached the CCAA conference semi-ﬁnals 
and NCAA sweet 16.
Written by  Daniel Hernandez // Senior Staff Writer
Photo by  Megan Lee // Photo Editor  
SEASON   ACCOLADES