VOLUME 50, ISSUE 1   THURSDA Y , SEPTEMBER 22, 2016  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
SURVIVAL 
GUIDE
WE KNOW THIS FIRST 
WEEK WILL BE HARD AND 
CONFUSING FOR YOU 
FRESHMEN —  WE’VE ALL 
BEEN THERE.  BUT KID, DO 
YOURSELF A FAVOR AND READ 
OUR GUIDE TO LIVING AT UCSD.
A   NOTE   TO   THE   KIDS
WOMEN'S  SOCCERHOW   WE   MOVE   FOR W ARD
No.6  Tritons  on  the  roadOPINION,  P age  4
Sports,  P age  16
THURSDAY
H 67 L 60FRIDAY
H 70 L 61
SATURDAY
H 77 L 61SUNDAY
H 77 L 63
FORECAST
VERBATIM
WITH MORE FACE-TO-FACE 
TIME, THOSE WHO STUDY 
AND WORK HERE WOULD 
HAVE MORE OPPORTUNITIES 
TO ACT ON THEIR CONCERNS 
AND SEE THEM ADDRESSED, 
WHILE KHOSLA WOULD 
IMPROVE HIS UNDERSTAND -
ING OF THE NEEDS OF THOSE 
AT UCSD.”
— GUARDIAN 
EDITORIAL BOARD
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
SNOWDEN  ...................... 6
DINING HALLS  ................. 7
SIGHTS AND SOUNDS  .....8
OFF CAMPUS LIFE  ......... 10
GOLF  ............................ 16WEEKEND,  P AGE 7
PHOTO BY CHRISTAIN DUARTE  /GUARDIAN
The University of California 
postdoctoral researchers’ union 
voted to authorize a strike on Sept. 
1 after the UC administration 
allegedly took over two months 
to reply to contract proposals to 
improve working conditions and  
renegotiate benefits.
The United Auto Workers Local 
5810 represents over 6,000 UC 
postdoc researchers and published a 
press release accusing the university 
of prolonging the bargaining process 
in addition to refusing to honor 
previous agreements regarding the 
postdoctoral researchers’ health 
benefits.
As of Sept. 16 the health benefits 
that union members are bargaining for include infertility treatments, 
the elimination of premium sharing 
and increased mechanisms to 
reduce the overall cost of the plan. 
The UAW is also bargaining for 
childcare subsidies, paid parental 
leave, a better retirement plan and 
enforceable protections against 
workplace abuse.
Lydia Majure, a trustee of the 
UAW’s executive board and UC 
Berkeley postdoc in neuroscience 
told the UCSD Guardian that the 
union has had difficulties negotiating 
with the university in the past.
“During negotiations for our first 
contract, the University of California 
dragged out the process over 60 
sessions, ” Majure said. “It took a 
congressional oversight committee 
hearing and our members’ pressure 
to get the contract resolved. ”The UAW has been bargaining 
with the University since May 31. 
Included in the bargaining proposals 
are improved compensation 
and benefits, a diverse, inclusive 
and safe research environment, 
and improved job security and                         
professional development.
Majure outlined the bargaining 
procedure between the union and 
the university and hopes to reach 
an agreement before the contract 
terminates.
“During the process we pass 
proposals back and forth between our 
team of postdocs and representatives 
of the UC administration, and at 
the table we discuss the language 
and why it is important, ” Majure 
said. “Our goal is to bargain in good 
faith and reach [an] agreement with UCSD Trolley 
Project Receives 
$1 Billion 
Federal GrantLOCAL
The grant will be issued in 
annual payments over the 
next ten years subject to 
congressional approval.
BY   J u l i e  Y i p 
Senior Staff Writer
The  Federal Transit Administration 
announced on Sept. 14 that the 
U.S. Department of Transportation 
granted $1 billion to construct the 
Mid-Coast Corridor Transit Project, a 
$2.1 billion project to extend the San 
Diego Trolley into the University City 
area, including UCSD. 
The trolley extension will span 
11 miles with a total of nine stations 
from Old Town to Westfield UTC, 
including two stops at the UCSD 
campus. One on-campus station will 
be located near Pepper Canyon off 
of Voigt Drive, and the other station 
will be built farther south at the 
Veterans’ Affairs Medical Center.
FTA officials estimate the new 
rail line will provide 24,600 transit 
trips each weekday, as they indicated 
in a recent press release. According 
to FTA Acting Administrator 
Carolyn Flowers, the extension will 
supplement the growing population 
in these areas. 
“With the population along the 
Mid-Coast Corridor expected to 
grow nearly 20 percent in the coming 
decades, this trolley extension will 
offer a much-needed alternative to 
traffic congestion in the years ahead, ” 
Flowers stated in the press release. 
In particular, FTA ’s Capital 
Investment Grant Program will 
divest the funds over the next 10 
years. The FTA granted an initial 
$100 million at the agreement’s 
signing, with a yearly payment for 
the remaining budget subject to 
congressional evaluation. 
Construction of the Mid-Coast 
Light Rail will take place over the 
course of approximately four and 
a half years; officials expect the 
project to be completed in 2021. Last 
year, preliminary work to relocate 
a number of underground utilities, 
including gas and water lines, began 
to allow construction to start. 
Jim Lin, director of project 
implementation at the San Diego 
Association of Governments, told 
the UCSD Guardian that the trolley 
offers convenience and accessibility 
to what Lin considers a region central 
to companies and residents. 
“The reason this trolley extension 
is so popular and valuable to the 
region is because the whole weight of 
the University City and the Golden 
Triangle has grown for the past 15 to 
20 years, ” Lin said. “It’s our second 
downtown San Diego as far as jobs 
go and where people are living. ”  
In addition, Lin described how A.S. Soft Reserves and Lecture 
Notes to Shut Down
A.S. Soft Reserves and Lecture Notes will close at the 
end of Fall Quarter. A.S. Council passed the resolution 
to dissolve the the enterprises last Spring Quarter, citing 
monetary loss and the inability to create a competitive, 
profitable enterprise as the reason for the closure. The 
exact date of closure has not been specified, only that after 
Fall Quarter 2016, these enterprises will no longer exist. 
A.S. Soft Reserves provides readers for classes at the 
request of professors, while A.S. Lecture Notes provides 
students with the opportunity to become paid notetakers 
as well as to buy those notes to supplement their studies. 
These two enterprises, which were created to be 
profitable enterprises for A.S. Council, have instead cost 
A.S. Council $24,933 and $26,919, respectively, since the 
2013-14 academic year. A.S. Financial Controller Justin 
Pennish pointed to the discrepancy between the original 
goals of these enterprises and their performance as the 
reason for the closure.
“[Due to] the bleak financial situation and [declining 
student usage] ... we could not scale the businesses and costs remained high, ” Pennish told the UCSD Guardian. 
“Salary, printing, production, overhead and copyright 
costs associated with [the] two enterprises made it so 
that the revenues were not enough to cover these costs 
in full each year as well as provide a return. [Because] 
A.S. [Council] is committed to fiscal sustainability and 
responsibility ... we decided it was time to shut them down 
indefinitely. ”
The resolution also briefly touched upon an attempt 
to create an online platform for lecture notes in order to 
become more competitive with off-campus lecture notes 
platforms. 
Pennish elaborated on possible enterprises that may be 
launched in the future, though they may take a different 
form than lecture notes. 
“The Office of Finance and A.S. [Council] would 
be more than willing to consider new and efficient 
enterprises that would be financially sustainable and 
benefit students, ” Pennish said. “Whether that be note-
taking or something else would be up to students to B y  Rebecca Chong      Staff WriterFALL Y’ALL
Union Authorizes UC Postdoctoral Researchers Strike
United Auto Workers Local 5810  hopes to speed up contract negotiations with the UC administration.See RESERVES , page 3
UC SYSTEM
By  M i n g - R a y  L i a oPhoto by Christian Duarte // UCSD Guardian
See TROLLEY , page 3 See STRIKE , page 3
Students celebrated the beginning of Welcome Week this past Sunday by enjoying live performances from Casey Veggies 
and Lighting Cola.
CAMPUS2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , SEPTEMBER 22, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
AVERAGE CAT By Christina Carlson
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. Tacos aren’t news tbh.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Caroline Lee
Marketing Director
Peter McInnis
Training and Development Manager
Allison Kubo
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Tina Butoiu
Jacky To
Marcus Thuillier
Maria Sebas
Lauren Holt
Quinn Pieper
Dev Jain
Oliver Kelton
Sam Velazquez
Naftali Burakovsky
Brittney Lu
Christian Duarte
Joselynn Ordaz
Aleya Zenieris
Kenji Bennett
Ayat Amin
Christina Carlson
Sophia Huang
Sage Schubert ChristianEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
 
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Multimedia Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editors
Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Aleya Zenieris, Quinn Pieper
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim, Alicia Ho, Lisa Chik
Editorial Assistants
Nathaniel Walker, Lisa Chik, Alex Wu, Miguel Sheker
See MoreUCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Governor Brown Signs Legislation to Reduce Student Hunger
AB 1747 requires public and private universities to allow students participating in CalFresh to utilize benefits at campus dining facilities. CALIFORNIA
Governor Jerry Brown signed AB 
1747, a bill aimed at reducing student 
hunger, on Sept. 12 according to a 
press release issued by his office that 
same day. The legislation, authored 
by Assemblymember Shirley Weber 
(D-San Diego), will extend CalFresh 
and other Department of Social 
Services programs to university 
campuses across the state.
CalFresh, the California version 
of the Supplemental Nutrition 
Assistance Program, provides 
financial assistance to those in need 
for the purchase of food. Existing 
federal law allows those who use 
CalFresh to spend benefits at 
restaurants through the Restaurant 
Meals Program, which counties 
may choose to participate in. As 
a result of AB 1747, public and 
private universities in participating 
counties are now required to apply 
to be food vendors under the 
program, allowing students to use 
CalFresh benefits at dining halls, 
and provide contracted vendors 
with information on the program.
According to UCSD 
Spokesperson Christine Clark, 
Housing, Dining, and Hospitality has been preparing for the possible 
implementation of AB 1747 since 
Jan. 2016 and has already introduced 
a similar program on campus.
“HDH rolled out accepting EBT/
CalFresh Benefits at the Village 
Markets in our North Campus in 
June of 2016, where we tested and 
processed transactions at the end of 
Spring Quarter and over Summer 
Session,” Clark told the UCSD 
Guardian. “This system is now in 
place and EBT/CalFresh funds are 
accepted for all edible food items 
‘excluding prepared hot foods. ’” 
In addition to incorporating 
on-campus facilities into the 
Restaurant Meals Program, AB 
1747 establishes the Public Higher 
Education Pantry Assistance 
Program Account in the Emergency 
Food Assistance Program Fund, 
which will allocate funding to food 
banks that support on-campus 
food pantries and other hunger 
relief programs for low-income 
students. It further mandates that 
the California Department of Social 
Services serve as the state entity 
receiving federal reimbursement 
for CalFresh outreach activities on 
behalf of state or local agencies. 
Thurgood Marshall College 
Student Council Food Pantry 
Representative Gary Le noted to the Guardian that the Higher Education 
Pantry Assistance Program Account 
would be valuable in allowing food 
pantries to further assist students.
“Funding assistance to 
surrounding food pantries, as well 
as the Triton Food Pantry, will 
increase our ability to help students 
of all backgrounds who are in need, ” 
Le said. “It is heartening to see 
support from our state legislature. ”
Clark also explained that HDH 
has worked with the Triton Food 
Pantry in the past to help reduce 
student hunger and plans to bolster 
that relationship in the future.
“HDH supports the Triton 
Food Pantry by coordinating Food 
Donation Drives at Move Out in 
October as part of the Colleges 
Rock Hunger Campaign, and HDH 
has also donated used equipment 
and provided assistance with 
ordering additional equipment for 
the food pantry, ” Clark stated. “We 
look forward to strengthening our 
partnerships this year. ”
According to a press release issued 
by her office, Weber was inspired 
to write the bill after witnessing 
an intern struggle with hunger 
and listening to student testimony 
at the Hunger, Homelessness, & 
Homework informational hearing 
she held at San Diego State University                                              last November.
“The stories of students living in 
their car[s] and maybe eating once a 
day - or even less - were disturbing, ” 
Weber said in the statement. 
“Students who are hungry can’t 
think, can’t write, can’t read and 
can’t learn. ”
The press release also cited two 
system-wide studies conducted by 
the University of California and 
California State University which 
revealed that nearly one in five 
UC students have very low food 
security and 43 percent have regular 
food insecurity, while 24 percent 
of CSU students have regular 
food insecurity and ten percent                  
are homeless. 
Le said that while the efforts to 
end student hunger will not end 
with AB 1747, the legislation is a 
step in the right direction.
“Though there is much to be 
done so that students can focus on 
their education while maintaining 
their health, AB 1747 will make our 
work that much easier. ” 
The bill passed 67 to 13 in the 
Assembly and 30 to seven in the 
Senate, enjoying bipartisan support.BY   L a u r e n   H o l t 
Associate News Editor
Lauren Hol t   lcholt@ucsd.edu[the] UC by Sept. 30 when our                      
contract expires. ”
Of the 6,000 postdocs that the 
UAW represents, 3,590 cast their 
vote, with 96.6 percent voting to 
authorize a strike if necessary.
Claire Doan, spokesperson for 
the UC Office of the President, 
mentioned in an email to The Daily 
Californian that strike authorization 
votes are frequently used to pressure 
the university when a contract’s 
expiration date approaches. She also 
said that the union’s proposals would 
increase university costs by tens of 
millions of dollars.
Majure stated that there has been 
no decision to strike, but it isn’t off 
the table just yet.
“Postdocs are very serious about 
[our] desire to be negotiated with 
fairly and our willingness to stand united in the face of unlawful labor 
practices which undermine our 
rights, ” Majure said. “The likelihood 
of a strike ultimately hinges on    
UC’s behavior. ”
Doan asserted that the University 
of California and the UAW will 
continue the process in hopes of  
finding common ground. 
“We bargain at the table, not 
through the media, ” Doan said in 
the email. “The University hopes 
the UAW focuses its efforts on 
continuing the progress reached 
thus far toward a deal. ”
Majure echoed Doan’s sentiments 
and also wishes for an equitable 
compromise.
“We hope the university will 
engage in good faith bargaining and 
move to reach a fair agreement with 
our union, ” Majure said.NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , SEPTEMBER 22, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
the new trolley line will connect 
distant neighborhoods in South 
Bay, including Chula Vista, National 
City and Mission Valley, and in East 
County to the jobs and healthcare 
facilities in University City — all on 
a single trolley ride. 
“If you live in South Bay and 
you either want to go to school or 
to one of the high-tech jobs in the 
Golden Triangle, that’s what we call 
a one-seat ride, ” Lin explained. “Y ou 
don’t ever have to get off the trolley. 
You can hop on the trolley Blue 
Line in Chula Vista, National City 
or San Ysidro, and you can stay on 
the trolley and get off on the Nobel 
Drive station. ”
The new trolley line will also 
provide more locals with greater 
access to a central area of healthcare. 
“Y ou have not only the university 
there and all those jobs, but you also 
have the centroid of all the healthcare 
facilities in the region. Y ou have the 
V A hospital, UCSD Medical Center, 
Scripps, Memorial and all of the other healthcare facilities, all within 
a few blocks of each other. ”  
Furthermore, the project will 
help the university fulfill some of 
its goals to reduce waste and utilize 
environmentally-friendly resources. 
“ A college campus is what you 
would call a transit-dependent crowd 
because the university encourages 
more green technology and reducing 
their carbon footprint, and they’re 
really proud of that, ” Lin stated. 
Muir College junior Kristine 
Khieu expressed her support for the 
expansion to the Guardian, stating 
that commuters will have greater 
access to the range of cities across 
San Diego County. 
“By being in La Jolla, many of us 
are unable to commute to internships 
or volunteer opportunities, ” Khieu 
said. “If anything, it broadens our 
view of San Diego by expanding 
our perspective to diverse 
neighborhoods. Of course, there 
will be growing pains but this will 
ultimately benefit the entire student 
population in the long run. ” 
Warren A.S. Senator Maedha Begur also addressed her concerns 
in the next five years as the trolley 
is built but believes the benefits 
outweigh the shortcomings. 
“I think that, while on the interim 
constructing the trolley does hamper 
students who can’t get around, in 
the long term it does address the 
transportation problems here in San 
Diego, ” Begur told the Guardian. 
“It’s a sacrifice we have to make 
for the benefits of something as big                
as transportation. ”
A public groundbreaking 
ceremony to celebrate the Mid-Coast 
Trolley extension will take place on 
Oct. 22 at Manchester Field across 
from the Preuss School, kicking off 
the project’s major construction.
Other improvements to San 
Diego’s infrastructure include the 
development of a transportation 
hub at the Westfield UTC and the 
addition of a second track to the 
Amtrak Pacific Surfliner line, which 
will allow for train passing and 
double tracking. advocate for, and for A.S. [Council] 
to design a comprehensive proposal 
of implementation. ”
While there were not enough 
students using the service to support 
A.S. Lecture Notes as a profitable 
venture, some were surprised to learn 
of its closure. Earl Warren College 
senior Gabrielle Pine found the 
resource to be a useful to her studies 
and course load.
“I used A.S. Lecture Notes mostly for more information-dense biology 
and psychology courses, ” Pine said. 
“It was helpful to condense and focus 
my studying, especially during time 
crunches such as midterms or finals. 
I’m surprised they’re closing. ”
Student Life Business Officer 
Doug Carlone explained how the 
closure of these two enterprises will 
be managed.  
“Full-time staff and part-time staff 
are being relocated as needed, [and] a 
notice has gone out to staff who work there, ” Carlone told the Guardian. 
“ Alternate solutions are being sought 
for these services. ” 
At this time it is unclear as to what 
those solutions might be. Both A.S. 
Soft Reserves and Lecture Notes will 
remain in operation throughout Fall 
Quarter 2016 for the reassignment 
of career staff to other positions 
in A.S. Council as well as other 
administrative measures.
The Public Groundbreaking Ceremony Will T ake Place on Oct. 22
▶ TROLLEY ,  from page 1▶ RESERVES,  from page 1 ▶ STRIKE , from page 1A.S. Soft Reserves and Lecture Notes Will Shut Down After Fall Quarter Doan: We Do Not Bargain Through the Media
Rebecca Chong   rcchong@ucsd.edu
Ming-Ra y Liao   m4liao@ucsd.edu
Julie Yip   jlyip@ucsd.eduWe now stream UCSD’s A.S. Council 
meeting live every Wednesday night 
at 6 p.m on the “UCSD Guardian” 
YouTube channel.A.S. COUNCIL LIVE!G-SPANOPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
QUINN PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | DAY , MONTH MONDAY , NOVEMBER 24, 2014, 2013 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
new & returning students
Re: About Last Yearon 2017
-- on administrative accessibility & office hours
During the new school year, Chancellor Khosla should work to strengthen his connection with students and employees by making his office hours more 
accessible and more frequent. The need for increased office hours was highlighted by the multiple scandals that rocked the University of California 
system this past year, resulting in the resignations of UC Davis Chancellor Linda Katehi and UC Berkeley Chancellor Nicholas Dirks, which showed 
that a lack of transparency or understanding of the university’s needs at the administrative level can be fatal. According to the Office of the Chancellor’s 
website, part of the chancellor’s role is “to be an executive with the political skills to respond to internal and external constituencies … to manage billion-
dollar budgets and thousands of employees; and … create a compe lling vision for the future of the campus that inspires faculty, students and staff.” 
With such important tasks as these, one would think that intera cting with, and listening to, those who study or work at UCSD w ould be a top priority for 
Khosla. After all, responding to internal constituencies, managing thousands of employees and creating an inspiring vision for UCSD all require a clear 
understanding of the issues faced by faculty, staff and students, and what motivates them. However, Khosla only schedules one hour a month each for 
student, faculty and staff office hours. Within these one-hour blocks, each individual is limited to 15 minutes to discuss their concerns. Fifteen minutes 
is hardly enough time to make serious headway on addressing working conditions, the eradication of student spaces or other chan ges that should be 
made to the campus. Furthermore, at 15 minutes each, Khosla onl y has time to speak with four students, four faculty members an d four staff members 
each month out of a school population of thousands.
While we acknowledge that the chancellor has a busy schedule an d appreciate that he holds office hours to begin with, both the school and Khosla 
would benefit from more frequent office hours, such as every othe r week instead of once a month. With more face-to-face time, th ose who study and 
work here would have more opportunities to act on their concern s and see them addressed, while Khosla would improve his unders tanding of the 
needs of those at UCSD. One hour monthly is not enough time if Khosla and his office strive to be more accessible to the people  they represent.
-- on Division-I
Since approving the move to the National Collegiate Athletic Association’s Division I, UCSD’s student body enters year one of the multi-year process 
required to complete the move up. Now that the vote is behind u s, it’s up to the students to embrace the results and make the most of it. 
Much has been said in regards to what the athletics department will reap from this move, among them “greater awareness to the school’s 23 existing 
teams, greater benefits to the athletes and a greater recruitmen t tool for the university,” according to a 2011 feasibility study recommending the move to 
Division I. But what does year one offer students?
UCSD Athletics called on LOMA — a company providing industry knowledge and business consultation — to conduct a study to determine “the 
feasibility of D-I reclassification” in 2016. The study concluded that “Division I could help extend the entire university’s culture of excellence, align it 
with peer academic institutions, improve the student experience , strengthen the UCSD brand, increase alumni engagement and fur ther community 
connection.” 
UCSD students who voted for the move must now take the proper s teps to build upon its cultural identity through this move. Ins tead of reciting their 
individual college associations, maybe UCSD students will finall y proudly state, “I am a Triton,” and project an image of the university as a whole rather 
than fragments. In the best-case scenario, UCSD would be approv ed into a Division-I conference this year, prompting a start for the tuition hike in the 
Fall of 2017. This would only be the beginning of the transition, however, as UCSD needs to build up athletic scholarships for two more years before 
applying to the National Collegiate Athletic Association. Only then can the University begin a four-year transition to be reclassified as a Division-I school, 
with a full-fledged membership only coming in the 2023-24 academ ic year.
In year one, the next steps for UCSD will be securing an NCAA invitation for membership into a Division-I conference — most likely the Big West 
Conference — as well as a review of the move by the Academic Senate. UCSD will also need to secure the formal approval from Chancellor Khosla 
before the next steps. Students do not have to worry yet about the fee increase; that would only come into effect next fall if UCSD receives an invitation 
this year. For this, we hope both the Senate and the Chancellor will help move the process forward in an effective way.
-- on the arts
Last spring, it was all but certain: University administrators had decided to convert our University Art Gallery into a classroom. This would have left us 
as the only undergraduate UC campus without an on-campus art ga llery, a near-worst case scenario for our student artists. However, dozens of people 
— student, faculty, artists — protested the planned shutdown. In response, the officials in control of the UAG’s future offered a rare ear to the students 
by reversing the decision and “removing the UAG from considerat ion for redevelopment at this time,” saving the UAG from conver sion.
While we have achieved a major victory in preserving our campus ’s few remaining spaces dedicated to the arts — most have been closed or 
repurposed — the fight is far from over. The key phrase from the university’s statement is “at this time.” While there won’t be any biology classes taught 
in the Art Gallery this year, it’s all but certain that this is a mere hiccup in the administration’s long-term goal of fully transitioning UCSD into a STEM-
specialized university. Science-infused art spaces like Calit2 and Atkinson Hall exhibit how the university only sponsors art if it contributes to their 
scientific pursuits. a note to the kids
Stepping onto campus after this summer break means something different for everyone. 
For some, it’s the entrance to what could one day be an athletic powerhouse. For others, 
it’s the first steps onto an enduring battleground in which the arts face extinction. Whatever 
the feeling, the UCSD Guardian Editorial Board relays expectati ons for students and 
administration alike as we head into the coming academic year.
OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , SEPTEMBER 22, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
UCSD
Welcome BACK
DON CARLOS
 TACO SHOPTRITONS!
eataburrito.com737 Pearl Street, La Jolla
Cool things to see in La Jolla
1) La Jolla Cove
2) Check Out The Seals
3) Museum Of
    Contemporary Art
4) Check out the Tide Pools
5) Windansea Beach
6) Stop by Don Carlos
     for a burrito
3
56 41
2
It's $2.25 and you jump on the 30 bus
to get to downtown La Jolla.
AVAILABLE ON 
$5 off your
first order, use code eats - 4ilgd
As students invested in the impact that well-supported arts hav e on a college campus, we will need to continue holding our adm inistrators accountable and 
ensuring their decisions represent our interests and passions. According to their statement, our administrators are “open to considering a viable proposal for 
the revitalization for the UAG.” It’s clear that everyone in the visual arts department — from Chair Jack Greenstein to the ICAM major sitting next to you in 
lecture — will be on the front lines of getting this proposal d rafted, submitted and passed, but we need to be behind them eve ry step of the way.
-- on Sun God
For the most part, Sun God Festival has not seen the hazard fac ed by some Southern California festivals with inadequate prepar ations for drug overdoses. 
However, implementing security pat-downs and quarantining students to their residential areas may not affect safety nearly as much as planning to lessen the 
cost of inevitable drug use: teaching students how to keep them selves safe being a crucial part. Not to mention, the funding n ewly added to amp up security 
could be better spent on recruiting artists more favorable to t he student body if the existing funding were instead used more effectively. While the blood-
alcohol level simulation on Sun God Festival’s website encourages attendees to self-surveil prior to the event, boosting more comprehensive drug-awareness 
education ahead of the festival may help to ensure that Sun God  Festival  — even if deemed a fading tradition by some — still has attendees’ safety in mind. 
Given the rising death tolls at music festivals — particularly Pomona rave HARD Summer, where three attendees died this summer — it is vital that 
Associated Students Concerts and Events considers where raves c an go wrong and makes safety a priority. Ample access to water and shade are key, 
and medical treatment must be readily available. While these ha s been provided in at least some form in the Sun God Festival’s recent years, the reality of 
students taking drugs prior to the festival must be acknowledge d and accounted for at the event itself. HARD Summer attendee Angel Ghaemi recounted for 
the L.A. Times that at least one of the deaths seemed preventable. Due to the lack of medical equipment and impenetrably congested traffic routes around 
the festival — which prevented any ambulance from arriving with in 15 minutes — an SDSU student died. We cannot let a similar scene unfold during Sun 
God Festival. To preserve the tradition, effectively supporting students with adequate safety measures is key, both before and during the festival.
-- on food security
Food security remains an active threat to a prosperous campus a t UCSD. In 2016, the UC Regents estimated that 42 percent of al l students had either low 
or very low food security, and admitted to experiencing reduced food intake due to limited resources. In addition, 29 percent of all food-insecure students 
admitted that they had difficulty studying because of hunger and  lacked money for food. Furthermore, the hunger gap also sharpl y increased among non-
white students and students receiving financial aid.
Steps to alleviating food insecurity at UCSD are minimal at bes t. Healthy cooking classes, which could encourage students to e at cheaply and nutritiously, 
are neither free nor well-advertised. Roughly 48 percent of UC students admitted they would like help cooking simple and healt hy meals, and 46 percent 
of students admitted they needed help making a monthly budget, according to a UC study on Student Food Access and Security. In 2015, the UCSD 
administration responded by creating the Triton Food Pantry, which receives funding from A.S. Council and various grants from across the UC system. 
However, the Triton Food Pantry still needs support; in 2015, it held a Crowdsurf campaign to raise additional funds to afford more nutritious — and more 
expensive — foods like fruits and vegetables. Ensuring consiste nt and reliable financial support for the Triton Food Pantry on behalf of the university should 
therefore remain an important part of the fight against campus h unger.
During the most recent A.S. elections, many candidates expressed support for reducing food insecurity at UCSD. Awareness surrounding the Triton Food 
Pantry continues to grow, and a good number of students remain aware of their unhealthy eating habits, even if they lack the resources to fix them. These 
signs point to the increasing awareness regarding food insecuri ty at UCSD, and contribute to ameliorating campus hunger.
Sincerely,
The Guardian Editorial Board6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , SEPTEMBER 22, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  ARTS & ENTERT AINMENT
If you’ve always wanted to see 
Joseph Gordon Levitt sport 
an earth-tone zip-up hoodie, 
bashfully avoid photographs or 
speak in an affected “engi-nerd” 
accent four octaves below his 
natural speaking voice, this film 
is probably worth your time. 
Everything in “Snowden” is 
undyingly on the nose. The score 
is sweeping and theatrical, and 
when it blooms loudly while Levitt 
is typing, it is hard to think the 
filmmakers aren’t making some 
sort of cruel joke at our expense. 
The performances are all mediocre, 
except for Hank Forrester (Nicholas 
Cage), who is at his personal zenith 
as a cagey ex-spy loose cannon who must reveal the dirty truths 
behind the intelligence world to a 
young Edward Snowden. This all 
might have made sense if it had 
been a movie created expressly for 
television, and obviously without 
the high-wattage movie stars at its 
center (Joseph Gordon Levitt and 
Shailene Woodley), who are only 
there for their global marketability. 
However, because of the subject 
matter, “Snowden” should not be 
judged as a self-contained entity. 
Any movie which takes on such 
ambitious subject matter must 
justify its very existence before it 
tries to do anything interesting. 
“Snowden” doesn’t attempt either. 
Here, the content is an account 
of Orwell’s nightmare realized in 
America, but the fact that the whole project exists at all is somberly in 
line with Huxley’s parallel prophecy 
of decadence, entertainment and 
exhaustion.
Edward Snowden has 
been deemed a hero by public 
intellectuals as famous and 
respected as Noam Chomsky, 
dismissed as a mere hacker punk 
by political actors as prominent 
as the president, and called a 
traitor by the country at large. 
He’s been the subject of endless 
editorials and has succeeded in 
engendering a desperately needed 
moment of public discourse about 
the balance between American 
security and safety after Sept. 11. 
Most recently, he has been deemed 
a good source of fodder for a global 
B-movie biopic drama, where Ed 
Snowden finds himself in good 
company. “Snowden” follows in the 
ultramodern phenomenon of public 
figures and cultural engineers like Steve Jobs, Mark Zuckerberg and 
Stephen Hawking seeing their entire 
personhood and vast influence 
being turned into a movie, a movie 
which perhaps exists simply so that 
it can be promoted on the surfeit of 
broad yet sarcastic late-night talk 
shows. 
But “Snowden” was made to 
exist on a much lower level than 
these three movies. “Snowden” lacks 
the witty dialogue of “The Social 
Network, ” the tight storytelling 
of “Steve Jobs, ” the beautiful 
performances featured in “The 
Theory of Everything” and the 
overall tact, class and appropriate 
seriousness of all three. Given the 
weight of the topic, this film is not 
just “un-” but “anti-” serious, as 
crass as anything Adam Sandler ever 
did. “Snowden” is infinitely more 
dangerous than any of the dross 
Adam Sandler created. Trash films 
will never be poised to further lower 
the level of public discourse in this 
country in the way that “Snowden” is right now. The blockbuster is 
clearly too low of an art form to 
deal with such important questions, 
and it should not be taken seriously 
as a medium for really meaningful 
debate. These biopics exist in the 
greater vein of our most significant 
historical moments being turned 
into major big-budget scripted 
movies. These sorts of films are 
enjoying a heyday in terms of both 
volume and quality, with “Spotlight” 
and “The Big Short” being Oscar 
nominees last year. 
Those films, while tragically 
exploitative, at least possessed the 
saving grace of being artful. In a 
worldwide debate about freedom, 
American exceptionalism and 
security, this lame movie gets the 
last word. We should all take a 
moment to be sad. 
—   Susie  Da vidson
Staff Writer
Get Your New School Year
U-Pass Sticker Today!Your Ticket to Ride!
Student fees provide unlimited rides for
students on MTS buses* and Trolley and
NCTD buses and SPRINTER!
Between Gilman
Parking Office
and Pepper
Canyon HallOutside
Bookstore at
Library WalkGilman
Parking Office
7–9 a.m.
weekdays except
Wednesdays,
and 4–5 p.m.
weekdaysCurrent registration/enrollment required. 
  *Rural and Rapid  Express routes excluded. 
Confirm dates & times, and get 
more information at u-pass.ucsd.edu  Weekdays
Starting 
Monday 
9/19/2016Weekdays
9 a.m. to 4 p.m.As needed per 
signs at Gilman 
3arNing 2IÀceiCommutesd.comOctober is 
Rideshare Month!
Register today 
for a chance to win prizes
SOFTRESERVES
An A.S. enterprise that enables professors 
to disseminate various course mate rials 
to their students.  These include 
course reader s, lab manuals, class 
notes, sample exam s, homework 
solutions, etc. 
858-534-6256
assoftreserv es@ucsd.eduONLINE SERVICFINAL QUARTER =(
E!
Pre-order your reader online at:
and pick it up at the Student Center softreserves.ucsd.edu
Located on Level 1 at the Student CenterHOURS OFOPERATIONMon-Thur: 9am-5pm
Fri: 9am-4pm
Sat, 9/24 and Sat, 10/1
Open 10am-2pm
Snowden
Nobody ought to go see “Snowden” in theaters, 
but people should pay attention to its existence as 
a bellwether for the state of the culture.PHOTO COURTESY OF ACESHOWBIZ
Directed by   Oliver Stone
Starring   Joseph Gordon-Levitt, Shailene Woodley
Rated  R
Release Date  Sept 16FILM   REVIEW
FA&E EDITOR // SAM VELAZQUEZ
ENTERTAINMENT@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIFESTYLE EDITOR // BRITTNEY LU
LIFESTYLE@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGUSING YOUR DINING PLAN..........................7
SD SIGHTS AND SOUNDS...........................8
OFF CAMPUS LIFE....................................10
WORTH YOUR REAL MONEY......................12
As an incoming freshman you have 3,000+ dining dollars to budget over your first nine months of college. This may seem like a lot now, 
but be warned: eating three meals a day like you may want adds up quickly, and you can easily find yourself running out by the middle of 
Spring Quarter. Don’t waste a single cent of your dining dollars, read our review of on-campus dining so you can make wise decisions.INSIDE
DINING HALLS  
OUR T AKE  7
STUDENT SURVIVAL GUIDE 2016-17
     64 North : 
If you’re looking for something more satiable than Pines’ orange chicken, and have had 
enough of the Bistro’s Tower Roll, 64 North is the obvious next go-to. Do be warned, the 
prices overcompensate for the fine dining experience, typical SoCal decor (small indoor 
succulents included) and surprisingly filling portions. With the cheapest selection on 
the menu being a hydroponic kale rice bowl, it’s tempting to pack up and head to Roots 
instead, but try the shrimp linguine and deconstructed s’mores pot, and you’ll realize it’s a 
place worth trying.      64 Degrees : 
Located in the middle of Revelle College, 64 Degrees is one of the the newest dining halls 
on campus. One of the biggest draws here is the burger bar, a cut above normal dining hall 
grills. Although the portions are a bit small, there are a lot of di fferent options to choose 
from, like turkey patties and five di fferent kinds of cheese. A basic burger costs $4.20 in 
dining dollars, but fries, shakes and extras can bring your meal into the $8 to $10 range. The 
deli and noodle bar also exceed expectations for a dining hall and are worth checking out. 
Though prices are slightly higher than other dining halls, the quality of the food more than 
makes up for it.
     Pines : Between Muir 
College’s residence buildings and 
McGill Hall, Pines is one of the best 
dining hall options on campus. The 
best part about this place is that 
food actually tastes like something. 
Although it’s one of the smaller dining 
halls, Pines o ffers a large selection of 
food, from curry and stir-fry made 
right in front of you to a unique 
range of pizza options. The dining 
hall always o ffers new options for its 
students to try, and with fresh food 
put out every day, it doesn’t taste like it’s cooked in bulk.  Don’t be surprised if there are long lines; 
be sure to get there early. For everyday meals, Pines is the place to go. * 1 2
3
     Bistro : 
If you’re looking for something fancy or a place for a date night on 
campus that isn’t Burger King, The Bistro is a must go. Although located 
at the edge of campus in The Village, the restaurant is o ften crowded 
with long wait times. Popular for its sushi, the food quality is a step 
above any of the other dining halls except 64 North. The Bistro’s modern 
architecture and design is very inviting and makes for a nice place to sit 
down with your friends. Most students don’t go to The Bistro every day, 
but it’s a nice option once in a while in spite of the prices. If you want to 
use some dining dollars on a nice place, then call and make a reservation 
soon. * 4 
     Foodworx : 
Foodworx is located at the far end of Sixth College, a very long walk for most students at 
UCSD. In fact, for those who don’t live nearby, it can be easy to not even realize it exists. 
Nevertheless, this hidden gem is de finitely worth an occasional visit. This dining hall is best 
known for its pizzas, which come in both premade slices and made-to-order personal-sized 
pizzas with custom toppings, all for under $7.50. Newer additions include a salad bar and a 
deli, giving this eatery a broader appeal. Foodworx strikes a unique balance in both o ffering 
excellent service and a ffordable prices.     Canyon Vista : 
Canyon Vista once had a 
reputation for being one of the 
worst dining halls on campus — 
those days are long gone. A year 
ago, the bland, run-of-the-mill 
eatery was given a new life with 
a unique Mediterranean theme. 
Granted, the Mediterranean 
food isn’t entirely authentic, but 
it is much better than the typical 
fried food served up by the likes 
of Cafe V . Enjoy a pita sandwich 
packed with fresh veggies and feta cheese or choose a healthier option with a Tabbouleh 
salad. Of all the dining halls on campus, this is the closest to Geisel Library and Price 
Center, making it a convenient spot for any student stuck in the middle of campus for 
lunch.56
     Cafe Ventanas : 7
Serving Eleanor Roosevelt College, Cafe Ventanas is the closest dining hall for students a fter 
working out in RIMAC or a class in the Rady School of Management. The location o ffers 
typical dining hall food like pizzas, pastas, salads and soups, but this year it has new food 
items such as the salmon bowl and tri-tip. Following ERC’s vision of global citizenship, Cafe 
V hosts several events during times such as Chinese New Year and Mardi Gras, priding 
itself in the celebration of di fferent cultures. Cafe V is not a recommendation you will hear 
a lot from students. However, the workers there are some of the nicest and hardest working 
people, and they are the reason Cafe V is worth going to.* - Upscale
- Brittney Lu LIfestyle Editor
- Alvin Chan Senior Staff Writer
- Alvin Chan Senior Staff Writer
- Oliver Kelton Features Editor- Alvin Chan Senior Staff Writer
- Oliver Kelton Features Editor
- Alvin Chan Senior Staff WriterPHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD GUARDIAN ARCHIVES
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD GUARDIAN ARCHIVESPHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD GUARDIAN ARCHIVESSAN DIEGO
SIGHTS AND SOUNDS
A Concise Rundown on Locations Worth Lyfting ToWith decent access to public transportation and car services, UCSD students have a bevy 
of venues within their reach. Every location placates a certain desire, whether one wants 
to catch a band, a film or a professional play. Some serve the mainstream, while others are a bit 
off the beaten path, o ffering a look into the ground floor of independent artists. If your schedule 
allows you the privilege of going out, make sure to check out one of these places.
MUSIC VENUES
Observatory North Park : Since undergoing a recent change in 
ownership this past January, the Observatory North Park has become the go-to 
music venue in San Diego. Located in North Park — one of San Diego’s hippest 
neighborhoods — the venue boasts a beautiful theater interior that has been host 
to an in flux of big-name bookings (Blondie) and on-the-rise acts (Shura). Shows 
are usually open to all-ages, with prices ranging between $20 to $40 and the 
occasional $5 show; a full bar is available for those 21+. For concert a ficionados, the 
Observatory North Park will quickly become a best friend. 
Sleep Train Amphitheater, Chula Vista : Chula Vista isn’t exactly 
near UCSD, but making the trek south is worth the time and money if there’s a good show going on at 
the gargantuan Sleep Train Amphitheater. Tucked in a dusty valley, the amphitheater is only accessible 
by a narrow two-lane road prone to tra ffic. Have patience. Once inside, the sheer expanse of the venue 
becomes apparent in the time it will take you to find your seat. There is standing space at the very 
front and at the very back of the amphitheater on a large C-shaped strip of lawn. There’s also concert-
priced food and beer if you’re into that. Tickets, while varying in price, aren’t exorbitantly expensive. 
But keep in mind that if you’re in the back of the amphitheater, you’ll be watching the show through 
the megatron unless you’ve got binoculars. The Casbah, San Diego : Tucked between Interstate 
5 and the San Diego International Airport, The Casbah’s tight space and 
energetic shows easily drown out the buzz outside. Being packed into 
a black square box may deter claustrophobes, but the venue’s intimacy 
allows the audience to become part of the action. Although The Casbah 
cannot boast star-studded lineups in comparison to larger San Diego 
auditoriums, it brings fiery shows featuring up-and-coming acts. For 
anywhere between $10 to $20, The Casbah provides an invigorating and 
affordable musical adventure for those looking to experience their music 
up close and personal. 
- Joselynn Ordaz Senior Staff Writer
- Matthew Zamudio  Staff Writer- Peter McInnis Senior Staff Writer
C.H.E. Cafe, 
La Jolla : 
Despite what many believe 
of the C.H.E. Cafe’s fate, this 
legendary San Diego all-ages 
venue is still up and running. 
It is located right in the 
outskirts of Revelle College 
(near Stonehenge) and is 
best known for its infamous 
mural-stained walls. The 
venue upholds a safe/sober 
space policy — it puts on a 
wide range of shows, film 
screenings and art shows with 
an emphasis on local artists. 
If you’re into hardcore, any variations of punk and/or indie rock, this is the place to be. It 
may look intimidating from the outside, but this DIY venue is one of the most welcoming 
spaces on campus. With free or discounted admissions for UCSD students, there really is 
no reason not to check it out. 
House of Blues, Downtown San Diego : 
Whether it’s a sweet sounding acoustic show or an edgy pop-punk concert, 
The House of Blues is sure to host it. Containing a midsized pit with a tiered 
restaurant on top and a blues theme, it possesses an intimate environment that 
has the potential to attract almost any music fan. The location in downtown 
San Diego draws upon an urban vibe, nicely accentuating the interchanging 
rock and blues performances it o ffers. And if you are of age, the fun continues 
with an added bar right by the stage, giving you an opportunity for a drink 
break amid the moshing.- Joselynn Ordaz Senior Staff Writer
- Melissa Palafox Staff WriterMusic Box, Little Italy : The Music Box, located in 
Little Italy, is one of San Diego’s newest music venues. A bit more 
upscale than others, the venue is complete with three levels of 
lounging areas and gourmet food/drink options — which means that 
there is no shortage of space to view the stage, hang out or enjoy a 
drink. Shows are typically 18+ or 21+ and tickets go for anywhere 
between $20 to $60 with many VIP options. Despite its short time 
in the scene, Music Box has managed to book an impressive mix of 
shows ranging from riot grrl poster girl Kathleen Hanna (in The Julie 
Ruin 10/16) to British electronic musician Mura Masa  (10/19). If 
you’re looking for a fun night of live music and drinks with friends, 
definitely give this place a try. - Joselynn Ordaz Senior Staff Writer
SOMA, San Diego : Fear not, freshmen. SOMA is strictly an alcohol-
free venue, permitting minors and “adults” alike to enjoy intimate shows in this 
cozy concert hall. Located in the Midway neighborhood near the San Diego Sports 
Arena, SOMA inconspicuously resides in the parking lot of a shopping center. 
Featuring both budding and established artists, SOMA is a great place to bask in the 
sweat droplets of your musical idol on the cheap. With the most fairly priced shows 
in town, SOMA allows attendees to jam without receiving a “low balance” alert 
from their bank. Inexpensive, nearby and exclusive, SOMA is the place to go for an 
informal night on the town. - Matthew Zamudio Staff Writer
8     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , SEPTEMBER 22, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
The Loft, La Jolla : Finding fantastic entertainment doesn’t have be di fficult. 
Students looking for a fun show that won’t break the bank should look no farther than The Loft. 
Located in Price Center, The Loft’s central location on campus makes shows at the venue easy to 
attend on a whim. As a smaller venue, The Loft often features underground artists for a ffordable 
prices. Most shows are either free for students or below $10, but make sure to bring your college 
ID for student discounts. Although the artists performing here may not yet have the star status 
of those at larger venues, don’t underestimate their abilities. The Loft is a great place to find 
lesser known artists who will convert you into fans for life. - Ayat Amin Contributing Writer
PHOTO COURTESY OF WIKIPEDIA
PHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE/UCSD GUARDIAN
PHOTO COURTESY OF GOLDSTAR THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , SEPTEMBER 22, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
- Matthew Zamudio  Staff WriterPLA Y HOUSESOld Globe, Balboa Park : 
In the center of the beautiful marble museum-heavy section of Balboa Park 
is the Old Globe, a little circular building where some of San Diego’s best 
theater takes place. Y ou can see di fferent plays all year here, including plenty 
of new shows along with a steady stream of Shakespeare. The most interesting 
thing about the Old Globe is its overall design: It’s structured so that its 
circular stage is the center of the theater. This place is intimate, charming and 
maybe San Diego’s best date destination.  - Susie Davidson Staff Writer
San Diego Civic Theatre, Downtown San Diego : 
San Diego’s theater scene is underrated, blessed with everything from UCSD’s own 
La Jolla Playhouse to Balboa’s Old Globe. However, downtown San Diego has an 
ace up its sleeve with the Civic Theatre — a bastion for prestige Broadway plays on 
tour (like the 15-year-running “Lion King”) with others regularly stopping by. With 
casual prestige like this, the plays are more than good enough to avoid masking the 
pain with overpriced wine and beer available at the bar. Sporting a rich regal theme 
decked out in red, good acoustics and without a bad seat in the house, it’s a dream 
for the audience and thespian alike.
La Jolla Playhouse, La Jolla :
The La Jolla Playhouse is a cluster of three theaters (Mandell Weiss Theater, Mandell 
Weiss Forum, Jacobs Center and Potiker Theater) located on the west side of 
campus o ff La Jolla Village Drive. Surrounded by a forest of tall eucalyptus trees, the 
multi-venue playhouse evokes unique feng shui as the theaters create a triangular 
concrete plaza in the center, complete with a restaurant and bar. Inside, each theater 
is designed to serve its own creative purpose. Potiker Theater, for example, sports 
a square-shaped stage with seating on three sides to allow for 180-degree viewing. 
Known for critically acclaimed and o ften experimental productions, we as UCSD 
students are particularly fortunate to be able to purchase tickets for only $10 with a 
university ID. - Sam Velazquez A&E Editor
MOVIE THEATERS
Landmark Hillcrest Cinemas, Hillcrest : 
Hillcrest Cinemas, tucked away in a plaza at the eponymous Hillcrest, is a welcome 
break from the theater chain behemoths of AMC and Edwards by catering to 
independent films. You’ll be able to take comfort in the fact that the theater is as likely 
to show Gaspar Noe’s latest DMT-inspired crusade as it is Terrence Malick’s latest 
sojourn into the meaning of existence. The rooms themselves are smaller and the seats 
aren’t the plush reclinables of AMC La Jolla, but there truly is no other place like it 
around here — a home for the cinephile. - Sam Velazquez A&E Editor  Arclight La Jolla, La Jolla : 
Sleek and cinematic, Arclight La Jolla o ffers one of the best non-”luxury” moviegoing 
experiences in San Diego. As soon as you enter the marble- floored lobby, you’re greeted by 
the venue’s gracious collared-shirted sta ffers, a strapping cafe/bar area and a pristine ceiling-
high display for the biggest blockbuster playing. Inside each of the actual theaters, you’ll 
find stadium-style seating that allows you to make the most out of the visual and auditory 
excellence that Arclight has to o ffer. Admittedly, the prices aren’t ideal — $16.50 for almost 
any standard showing — but the overall feeling of a night out on the town makes the cost of 
admission more than worth your hard-earned dollar. - Jacky To Senior Staff Writer
AMC La Jolla, La Jolla : 
Going to the movies is about more than just watching a movie. While theaters 
have attempted to improve the movie-going experience with steeper seating and 
bigger screens, AMC La Jolla is all about comfort. Nowhere else will you find 
plushier seats, let alone seats designed for those too lazy to sit upright. If you 
ever want to experience the laid-back comfort of watching a film in a La-Z-Boy 
recliner, look no further than AMC La Jolla, conveniently located near Ralphs. 
This theater is the only place where you can actually sit back, relax and enjoy the 
show. - Naftali Burakovsky A&E Associate Editor
PHOTO BY BERNARD GAGNON
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE/UCSD GUARDIAN
PHOTO BY KEN WILLIAMS
PHOTO COURTESY OF SAN DIEGO UNION TRIBUNE10      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , SEPTEMBER 22, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
Get a life outside of campus! Explore what San Diego has to o ffer, from food and 
drinks to natural escapades to urban nightlife! Only a bus (or ride from a gracious 
friend) away from campus, here are some highlights you won’t want to miss. Off Campus  Life
Living  Room  Cafe
1010 Prospect Street La Jolla 92037 (6 a.m.-1 a.m. Sunday-
Thursday, 6 a.m.-2 a.m. Friday-Saturday)
4/5 $
A coffee house that works as hard as you, Living Room Cafe is tucked away from an 
upstairs wine bar to suit late-night study grinds and coffee grounds. As its namesake 
suggests, it’s as cozy as the winter-edition catalog of Pottery Barn, and is the perfect 
place to get papers done or waste an afternoon watching Stranger Things. Classic items 
like cappuccinos and chai are able to stand against signature drinks like the Cafe Jaffa, 
an orange mocha blend. And unlike most coffeehouses that serve unsustainable pastries, 
Living Room Cafe generously provides bagel sandwiches, frittatas and pastas alongside 
traditional scones and muffins. Try this place once, and you’re almost guaranteed to 
become a regular.  Boba  Bar
7655 Clairemont Mesa Blvd San Diego 92111 (10AM-9PM)
3.5/5  $
A new face to the Convoy food scene, Boba Bar has made its way down from LA, bringing iconic 
Hong Kong egg waffle cones housing generous scoops of ice cream and a wide range of boba 
milk tea flavors, from lavender to taro. Its relatively far location is of fset by decent prices and a 
minimalist aesthetic. With Pinterest-esque calligraphy embellishing the walls and Instagrammable 
treats, Boba Bar is a unique duality that feeds both the stomach and millennials needing to 
photodocument everything. 
Share  Tea
4917 Convoy St San Diego 92111 (11a.m.-12 a.m.)
4/5 $
Taiwanese classic turned San Diegan favorite, Share Tea isn’t just another boba place on 
Convoy. Specializing in traditional milk teas, Share Tea also features blends of matcha 
and red bean, Earl Gray brews flavored with everything from fruit to chocolate, and a 
unique pineapple cake ice blend. And if you want to deviate from what’s already on the 
menu, toppings like egg pudding and mini boba can be paired with any tea, milk, coffee 
or slush blend to customize the perfect drink. While no food is served here, the drinks 
are big enough to satisfy, and good enough not to share.Lest a t ’s
3343 Adams Ave San Diego 92116 (Open 24/7)
4/5 $
Get a head start this school year by finding your favorite coffee shop study spot before 
finals week! Only twenty minutes from UCSD, Lestat’s Coffee House, located in North 
Park, provides a perfect hangout and study spot. The walls are captivatingly decorated 
with paintings for sale by local artists and the menu includes a wide selection of drinks and 
sandwiches. The place is often packed, so make sure to allow some extra time to find parking 
and a table to sit at! 
Torrey  Pines  Trail
N Torrey Pines Rd La Jolla 92037
4.5/5
If breathtaking views of the Pacific Ocean and easygoing hikes are on your radar , the 
trails offered at Torrey Pines State Reserve are a must-see. Located conveniently off of 
North Torrey Pines Road and Genesee Avenue, this natural park is the perfect getaway 
when the campus gets tiring and workloads become overwhelming. With six different 
hikes available — all of which lead you to the beach — and beautiful scenery year-round, 
this is a must-do for all UCSD students.Ho  Chi  Minh  Trail 
9883 La Jolla Farms Rd La Jolla 92037
4/5
Noted as one of the top ten hikes in San Diego, Ho Chi Minh Trail is the ultimate quad 
and calf workout. A relatively steep downhill trek, coupled with tightrope-esque paths 
across planks, leads straight into the ocean: a well-deserved reward. And while the climb 
back up is not the most pleasant, the experience — and pictures to prove badassery — are 
well worth it. So grab your Chacos or go barefoot for an adventurous time. 
Los  Penasquitos  Canyon  Trail
12020 Black Mountain Rd San Diego 
92129
4/5
Located in the heart of suburban Carmel Valley, Los 
Penasquitos Canyon is seven miles of landscape 
that looks like a Nature Valley bar, all of which 
center around a waterfall. With fields to frolic in, 
water to jump in, mountainous hills to climb and 
shady groves to rest in, Los Penasquitos is home 
to universal terrain for every type of nature lover. 
However, be aware of what entrance you take; 
depending on the kind of hike you desire, one 
entrance can lead you through a tranquil pasture, 
while the other leads you down (and then back up) a 
steep and rocky hill. Belmont  P ark
3146 Mission Blvd San Diego 92109
3.5/5  $$
With retro vibes, oceanfront views and thrilling rides, Belmont Park is the often underrated and 
underappreciated cousin to the likes of SeaWorld and Legoland in San Diego. Established in the 
1920s in Mission Beach, Belmont Park boasts attractions for locals and tourists alike, and is one 
of the only places in San Diego where you can ride a rollercoaster overlooking the PacificOcean 
Extreme bonus — they serve Disneyland’s iconic  Dole Whips, sans eight-hour lines and a creepy 
Tiki Room filled with animated birds.
Gaslamp  Quarter
614 5th Ave San Diego 92101
4/5 $$
The Gaslamp Quarter is located next to the 
Convention Center in downtown San Diego, 
only a 30-minute drive from UCSD. Most 
famously known for its Saturday night bar 
scene, the large area is also a National Historic 
District with a lot to offer its visitors. Possible 
entertainment includes visiting local breweries, 
eating at popular restaurants, stopping by live 
music venues and comedy clubs, shopping at 
small boutiques and, most satisfying of all,         
people-watching.
 Compiled  b y  Life  style  St aff
ILLUSTRATION BY ALEX LIANG  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , SEPTEMBER 22, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
Siebel Scholars Class of 2017
The Siebel Scholars program was founded in 2000 to recognize the most talented graduate 
students in business, computer science, bioengineering, and energy science. Each year, over 90 
outstanding graduate students are selected as Siebel Scholars based on academic excellence 
and leadership and join an active, lifelong community among an ever-growing group of leaders. We 
are pleased to recognize this year’s Siebel Scholars.
www.SiebelScholars.comJOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY  
WHITING SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING
Adriana Blazeski
Lindsay Clegg
Berk Gonenc
Shiva Razavi
Quinton Smith
MIT 
SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING
Brittany Goods
Chen Gu
Ryan Kelly
Kelly Moynihan
Novalia PisheshaSTANFORD UNIVERSITY  
SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING
Akshay Chaudhari
Gerald Maxwell Cherf 
Christopher Madl
Aaron Mitchell
Patrick Ye
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY  
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
Matthew Bakalar
Benjamin Epstein
Elena Kassianidou
Sylvia Natividad-Diaz
Kevin YamauchiUNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN DIEGO  
JACOBS SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING
Armen Gharibans
Gabriela Guzman
Jae-Young (Jerry) Jung
Jinxing Li
Ya-San Yeh
MIT 
SLOAN SCHOOL OF MANAGEMENT
Alex Burns
Sebastian Cubela
Brendan McCook
Sarah Vick
Weiyuan (Wendy) Yuwen
NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY  
KELLOGG SCHOOL OF MANAGEMENT
Jonathan Goldstein
Bo Gustafsson
Jackie Laine
Iris Tian
Austin VanariaSTANFORD UNIVERSITY  
GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS
Katherine Archibald
Carolyn Kooi
Federico Mossa
Sebastian Serra
David ZhangUNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO  
BOOTH SCHOOL OF BUSINESS
Sruti Balakrishnan
Christopher Cruickshank
Max Gelb
Jonathan Pack
Craig Poeppelman
CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY  
SCHOOL OF COMPUTER SCIENCE
Akash Bharadwaj
Kristen Gardner
Timothy Lee
Anqi Li
Jennifer Olsen
HARVARD JOHN A. PAULSON SCHOOL  
OF ENGINEERING & APPLIED SCIENCES
Ofra Amir
Gaurav Bharaj
Pao Siangliulue
Lillian Tsai
Ming Yin
MIT 
SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING
Brian Axelrod
Karan Kashyap
Chengtao Li
Ruizhi (Ray) Liao
Srinivasan RaghuramanPRINCETON UNIVERSITY  
SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING AND  
APPLIED SCIENCE
Kevin Boutarel
Ohad Fried
Tengyu Ma
Rafael Mendes de Oliveira
Shuran Song
STANFORD UNIVERSITY  
SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING
Brandon Azad
Bradley Girardeau
Jonas Kemp
Vayu Kishore
Samantha Steele
TSINGHUA UNIVERSITY  
SCHOOL OF INFORMATION SCIENCE  
AND TECHNOLOGY
Ye Chen
Boya Wu
Guiyong Wu
Ruobing Xie
Xiaowei ZhuUNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY  
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
Paul Bramsen
Wesley Hsieh
UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS  
AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN  
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
Chamila Amithirigala
Spencer Gordon
Wenqi (Maggie) He
Dengfeng (Davis) Li
Vipul Venkataraman
CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY  
SCHOOL OF COMPUTER SCIENCE
Jingkun Gao
ÉCOLE POLYTECHNIQUE  
GRADUATE SCHOOL
Paul Narchi
MIT 
SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING
Hung Nguyen
POLITECNICO DI TORINO  
DOCTORAL SCHOOL
Maria FerraraPRINCETON UNIVERSITY  
SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING AND  
APPLIED SCIENCE
Janam Jhaveri
STANFORD UNIVERSITY  
SCHOOL OF EARTH, ENERGY  
& ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCES
Lewis Li
TSINGHUA UNIVERSITY  
LABORATORY OF LOW CARBON ENERGY
Zhaowei Geng
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY  
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
Caroline Le FlochUNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS  
AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN  
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
Hao Jan (Max) Liu
THE UNIVERSITY OF TOKYO  
SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING
Masahiro SatoBIOENGINEERING
BUSINESS
COMPUTER SCIENCE
ENERGY SCIENCE12      THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , SEPTEMBER 22, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
FALL 2016
M: 9am-1pm
TuTh: 11am-3pm
W: 10am-2pm
F: 9am-2pmAT THE ORIGINAL STUDENT CENTERHOURSCroutons: 
Located on the second floor of the Student Services Center, above the Cashier’s O ffice, Croutons 
offers a welcome break from normal campus dining. The sandwich shop serves freshly made 
paninis as well as soups and salads for a healthy touch. Be sure to make some time in the 
middle of the day to come here, as the hours are only from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. on weekdays. With 
prices ranging between $7.50 and $11 for medium-sized portions, Croutons is de finitely worth 
checking out, but eating here regularly will take a bite out of your wallet.
Worth your money? Y es, on occasion.
Bombay Coast: 
If you’re looking for authentic Indian cuisine this is not the place for you. All the recognizable dishes from the 
subcontinent are there, such as tikka masala and saag paneer, but they lack the powerful spices that de fine the real 
deal. What is commendable about Bombay Coast, however, are the portions. The prices for combo meals range 
from $7.25 for three vegetarian entrees to about $8.50 for three vegetarian or non-vegetarian entrees. This may seem 
like a lot of money, but together with the generous servings of rice and naan bread, one meal can keep you full for 
almost a whole day.
Worth your money?  No, unless you are willing to sacri fice quality.- Oliver Kelton Features Editor
- Oliver Kelton Features EditorWORTH YOUR
       REAL MONEY?Getting tired of dining hall food? Don’t worry, UCSD has plenty of 
other options available if you’re willing to spend some real world 
money. Be warned, though, not every restaurant is worth reaching into 
your wallet for. Here’s our review of the private eateries on campus so 
you can make an informed decision.
 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , SEPTEMBER 22, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  13
- Oliver Kelton Features Editor
- Oliver Kelton Features Editor
- Oliver Kelton Features Editor- Matthew Zamudio Staff Writer- Alvin Chan Senior Staff WriterLemongrass: 
Lemongrass is a newcomer to Price Center, but the Thai restaurant 
has a much longer history on campus: For many years it was the 
farmer’s market vendor that attracted the longest lines. This eatery 
earned its good reputation by o ffering generous servings of Thai 
classics like chicken red curry and pad thai. The food is much 
more flavorful than what you would expect from a typical fast-
food eatery, giving you some of the spice and unique flavors that 
Bombay Coast lacks. Like most of the venues in PC, the food is in 
the $7.50 to $10 range, but the portions and quality make it money 
well spent.
Worth your money?  Y es, always.The Loft:  
In addition to being one 
of the best entertainment 
venues on campus, The Loft 
also serves up a variety of 
American grill classics like 
burgers and french fries, 
as well as a good selection 
of sandwiches. The food is 
a bit more expensive than 
typical fast food fare, in the 
$10 to $14 range, but the 
quality is also much better. 
Though the kitchen closes 
for the evening, you can 
come at night and enjoy the 
bar, which serves a wide 
variety of cra ft beers, while 
watching a variety of live 
indie performances.
Worth your money?  Y es, on 
occasion.Santorini: 
Of all the options at PC, Santorini — a Greek-style restaurant 
— offers some of the best grub when it comes to value and 
taste. Serving everything from breakfast gyros to chicken 
kebabs and salads, the restaurant — located between Burger 
King and Tapioca Express — is one of the most popular 
eateries among students, a fact that can be easily deduced by 
the winding line that amasses in front of Santorini every day at 
lunchtime. Meals at Santorini usually range from $7 to $10 for 
a plate of food that will leave you more than satis fied. This is 
something that can’t be said for every restaurant on campus, so 
choose wisely and get ready to eat plenty of pita.
Worth your Money? Y es, always.Shogun:  
Located above the PC Theater and Box O ffice, Shogun o ffers three things in one: a sushi 
bar, noodle bar and pool hall. Though the restaurant’s focus is on Japanese cuisine, the 
noodle bar also serves well-known dishes from the rest of Asia, such as pho noodle soup 
from Vietnam. The noodle bar serves medium to large sized portions in the $7 to $10 
range, and the sushi bar o ffers six-piece plates as well as bento boxes and other typical 
Japanese fare. With this much variety, you might think this is one of the best restaurants 
on campus, but be warned: Though the food isn’t terrible, the prices are too high given 
that this is far from the best Japanese food out there.
Worth your Money?  Not really.Home Plate:  
If you are looking for the best burgers on campus, 
then head over to Home Plate. Next to RIMAC Gym, 
Home Plate is a sports bar that o ffers only a few burger 
selections — but each are worth trying. Home Plate 
also o ffers outdoor seating and a second floor with 
a shu ffleboard, pool table and a few other common 
barroom games. Relative to the other food options on 
campus, Home Plate should be a place students try at 
least once. They also have beer. Who doesn’t like that?
Worth your Money?  Y es, if you’re looking for the 
sports bar experience.
14 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , SEPTEMBER 22, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDSGuardian Classifieds are FREE for the UC San Diego community.
 www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedsFURNITURE
Sofa and Loveseat for Immediate Cash 
Sale - Furniture is in attractive condi -
tion as it has been a month since we 
bought it. Please contact -- if you 
are interested. Pictures and contact 
details on Advertigo website. Listing 
ID: 305157000 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Curio Cabinet - Curio Cabinet shelves 
are glass. Bottom with small door. 
Superb condition. Images and contact 
info on Advertigo website. Listing ID: 
305156999 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
Fir Wood Bar Table and Stools Set 
- Entertain in style with this love -
ly wooden high-top table and stool 
set. Made from fir and pine. You’ll 
have the best seat in the house or 
even outside to enjoy snacks bever -
ages or a complete meal. Comes with 
stools and table. Pictures and contact 
details on Advertigo website. Listing 
ID: 305156995 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
ELECTRONICS
Sony Handycam - $100. Sony 
Handycam HDD 60 GB Model dcr-
sr47. Including camera , two batteries, 
camera bag and charger. Everything 
is in super condition. Listing ID: 
305156992 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
GoPro HERO 4 Silver - $300. Brand 
new GoPro HERO four silver waterproof 
with built in touch display 1080p60 
12mp WiFi & Bluetooth control view 
share. FIRM PRICE $300. Listing ID: 304329629 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
3 Boxes of VHS Video Movie Tapes: 
Star Wars and Other Collectors - $25. 
Too many to list. Must buy all boxes. 
I will deliver if you want. Locally, I am 
near the 78 freeway and College Blvd. 
Listing ID: 304329626 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
PETS
Sweet Holland Lop Babies - $60. 
Super cute purebred Holland Lop Baby 
Bunnies. They are 8 weeks old and 
ready to go. I handle all my baby bun -
nies from birth, so they are all tame 
and sweet. They will be between 3-4 
pounds when full grown. I will show 
you how to handle your new bunny 
and give you lots of helpful informa -
tion. Please text me at 951-294-2051. 
I am located in Murrieta. Listing ID: 
305984269 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
Olde English Bulldogge - $1500. 
Adorable Olde English Bulldogge boys 
born on 06 Aug 2016. The pups will be 
ready to go home on 01 Oct 2016 at 
8 weeks of age. They will come with 
first two sets of vaccines. Please be 
in touch for rehoming fee if interested 
and/or to schedule an appt to visit. 
Parents on-site. Listing ID: 305139578 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
Creamy Persian Kids, 3 Months - $500. 
I have 3 creamy persian kids. Since I’m 
moving to a place with limitation of two 
pets, I need to find them a new home! 
They are all healthy, playful and ener -
getic. Litter box- trained. There is one 
girl, the others are boys. If you could buy two, it’s $400 each. And, I’m not a 
breeder, so they have never been to a 
vet. However, their parents are healthy. 
Listing ID: 305139343 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
FOL LOW US
@ucsdgua rdianComplete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies 
on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.ukLevel: 1234 Level: 1234
SUDOKU
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
your vision,  our mission .Your on-c ampus, student-run,  
custom scr een printing se rvice 
comple te with graphic design  
capabilities and me rchandis e
available f rom:
madetoorde r@ucsd. edu
to.ucsd.ed uCONTACT US TODAY FO R A FREE QUOTE!
JUST FOR YOU! RECEIVE  10% OFF YOUR FIRST CUSTOM ORDER  (minimum 36 shirts) • EXPIRE S 3/11/16SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , SEPTEMBER 22, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  15
JOIN US FOR A WEEK OF ASCE!
SEPT. 26-30FOLLOW US @UCSDASCEKICKOFF WEEKASCE
For more information, contact Carol at  ascechiefofstaff@ucsd.edu • 858.534.0477  which were shot by Haselden and Hui as they both reached 69. 
"It was a great team effort with all five guys contributing significantly," Ragan said. "Today, 
Jacob and Mateusz posted two good rounds to seal the win for us." 
Cal State Dominguez Hills freshman Andrew Fernandes led the entire 34-player tournament 
with a one-under 212 (70–70–72). He was the only player to finish under par. 
The teams that followed UCSD were Sonoma State (887), Stanislaus State (890), Cal State San 
Bernardino (890), Cal State Dominguez Hills (896) and Whittier (1052). All of the teams except 
for Whittier were from the California Collegiate Athletic Association.
In addition to the team score, the tournament win for the Tritons was also historic as it was 
their first since 2002, when they beat an 11-team tourney at the Point Loma Invitational which 
took place at the Riverwalk Golf Club in San Diego. 
UCSD will look to capitalize on its success as the team continues its season at Chico State's 
Wildcat Classic which will take place between Oct. 3 and Oct. 4 at Butte Creek Country Club.
dev jain     dajain@ucsd.edu
PHOTO BY UCSD ATHLETICSPHOTO BY UCSD ATHLETICSSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
DEV JAIN
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
16  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , SEPTEMBER 22, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
Af t e r  k i c k i n g off the season with a 3–1 record, the UCSD women’s soccer team 
managed to move up to No. 6 in the nation while remaining No. 1 in the West Region. 
The Tritons continued their 2016 campaign this past week by traveling north to No. 17 
Western Washington University and undefeated Central Washington University. Wednesday’s 
game against the 17th-ranked Vikings led to an upset as UCSD lost 3–2. However, the Tritons 
were able to bounce back Friday and hand CWU its first loss of the season. 
UCSD - 2, WWU - 3
The return to Harrington Field was an emotional one for UCSD. The Tritons last played 
there during the first round of the 2015 NCAA Division II Championship, where they ended 
the season with a loss to Seattle Pacific. 
UCSD’s loss to the Vikings was similar in fashion to its last visit to the field, with the Tritons 
trailing into the half with a two-score deficit. Again, their late rally was not enough as the 
opposing team managed to stay one score ahead to seal the win. 
Vikings sophomore forward Gabriela Pelogi scored the first goal in the 23rd minute of 
play. She managed to pass two Tritons and kick a well-placed ball to the far post, beating 
senior goalkeeper Itzel Gonzalez. Within the next seven minutes, senior defender Erin Russell 
complemented her teammate with a 20-yard blast, making the score 2–0. 
UCSD was quick to respond with sophomore forward Mary Reilly hitting a perfect floater 
past several WWU defenders. Junior midfielder Jordyn McNutt was able to seal the play with a 
shot to the far post, making it 2–1 with her first goal of the season.
By the end of the first period, the Vikings were able to take back a two-goal lead over the 
Tritons after a couple of one-touch passes and a shot by freshman forward Jordyn Bartelson.
UCSD scored the lone goal in the second period around the 58th minute. Following a 
failed clearance, Reilly lobbed the ball over junior goalkeeper Ashley Homer to make it a                    
one-score differential.
The Tritons suffered a 3–2 loss, though they managed to score two goals on a team that had, 
thus far, not been scored on. Homer’s shutout streak came to an end 413:55 into the season. UCSD was heavily outplayed during the first period; WWU had twelve shots compared to 
the Tritons’ four. However, WWU was held in check after UCSD freshman midfielder Natalie 
Saddic subbed in at the 33rd minute. 
UCSD - 2, CWU - 1
Friday’s game was UCSD’s first overtime win and CWU’s first loss of the 2016 season. The 
match exhibited stellar defense from Gonzalez, who made a crucial save in overtime and junior 
midfielder Taylor Ramos, who went down to save a goal. 
For the third game in a row, the Tritons let the opposing team score first. This time, it 
came within the first six minutes of the match. The Wildcats jumped to the lead after senior 
midfielder Keilin Farrand’s corner kick. Although the athletes continued to play after the kick, 
it was later ruled by the assistant referee that the ball had crossed the line. 
The Tritons scored and tied the game up several minutes before the half after CWU freshman 
goalkeeper Emily Holt fouled UCSD freshman forward Roni Merrill. Senior center defender 
and co-captain Meghan Berry took the reins and drilled the penalty kick for the tie, making it 
a 1–1 match. 
Still tied 1–1 at the end of the second half, the match went into overtime. Gonzalez saved a 
CWU shot from the right diagonal inside the box by junior midfielder Mackenzie Nolte. 
Seconds after blocking the ball, UCSD countered and brought the ball to the right flank into 
Wildcat territory. McNutt delivered a cross to junior forward Katie O’Laughlin, who headed it 
in for her league-leading sixth goal and a Triton victory. 
UCSD heavily outshot CWU 22–6 for the entire match, which led to Holt’s record eight 
saves. The victory was also UCSD’s seventh win against CWU in the all-time series. The Tritons 
improved to a 4–2 record and will look to play Cal State San Marcos on Wednesday at 12:30 p.m. 
to begin their California Collegiate Athletic Association schedule. 
UCSD  men’s golf submitted a dominating performance in its first tournament of the 
2016-17 season as the team won by 17 strokes on Tuesday. It was the Tritons’ first 
victory since 2002. The Johnson Shootout was hosted by Cal State Dominguez Hills at Industry 
Hills Golf Club.
With a team total of 870 and 18-over par, the Tritons led the entire way. UCSD shot a 295 in 
Tuesday’s final round, in addition to posting a 286 and a 289 on Monday. 
The team score of 870 was a historic one as it was the lowest three-round score since UCSD 
totaled 864 at the Sonoma State Invitational in October of 2012. Triton head coach Jim Ragan 
had a lot to be happy about with the team’s performance. 
“I was really proud of our team today; the course played tougher than yesterday and we got 
off to a poor start, but we bounced back and played well coming down the stretch, ” Ragan told 
UCSD Athletics.
The Tritons had three players finish in the top 10 in individual standings, led by freshman 
Hayden Hui who ended the tournament third. In his first college match, Hui scored 71–69–77 for 
4-over par and 217 total. Hui started off Tuesday in a tie for first place before dropping two spots.
By posting scores of 73–76–71 and a 220 total, freshman Jacob Johnson finished in a tie for 
seventh place. Junior Mateusz Kucz tied for ninth (70–79–72–221), freshman Adam Navigato 
(72-75-75-222) ended 12th and sophomore Jake Haselden (77–69–79-\–225) finished 17th. 
In the entire tournament, there were only three rounds that UCSD was below 70, two of 
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE /UCSD GUARDIAN
anthony tzeng    aitzeng@ucsd.eduTritons Split Two on the Road 
By Anthony Tzeng // Staff WriterUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM. Water Polo
W.  Volleyball
M.Soccer
W. Soccer
M. Water PoloVS Fresno Pacific
VS Cal State San Marcos
VS Chico State
VS Chico State
AT Air Force 9/23
9/24
9/25
9/25
9/30
G O L F  H A S 
HISTORIC WIN
 By Dev Jain // Sports editor