VOLUME 49, ISSUE 40   THURSDA Y , MARCH 10, 2016  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
FASHION OR 
FA-SHUNNED
AS STUDENTS, WE HAVE A 
DISTINCT STYLE —  AFTER 
ALL, WE ARE THE ONLY ONES 
TO ROCK UCSD SWEATSHIRTS. 
THE GUARDIAN UNCOVERS 
THE TYPICAL UCSD CLOSET 
WITH LOOKS MODELED BY OUR 
EDITOR IN CHIEF. 
JUSTIFIED  DIVESTMENT
WAT E R   P O L O   W I N SDENIAL  OF  ARMENIAN  GENOCIDE
Improve  record  to  13-6OPINION, P AGE 4
sports,  P age  12
THURSDAY 
H 68 L 57FRIDAY
H 65 L 56
SATURDAY
H 63 L 55SUNDAY
H 64 L 58
FORECAST
VERBATIM
DON’T FORGET  TO CELEBRATE  
THE MIDDLE OF FINALS  WEEK  
BY PARTICIPATING  IN THE 
CAMPUSWI DE UNDIE RUN. AS 
YOU SPRINT  ACROSS  CAMPUS , 
IMAGINE  THAT EACH ARTICLE  
OF CLOTHING  YOU JOYOUSLY  
FLING  ASIDE, REPRESENTS  THE 
ACADEMIC BAGGAGE  OF EACH 
PAPER  AND TEST.”
- Rise Above Finals
HOW-TO GURU:
OPINION, PAGE 4 
INSIDE
STRESS  .......................... 2
TURKEY EDITORIAL  ......... 4
KNIGHT OF CUPS  ............ 9
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU  ..10
BASEBALL SPLIT TWO ...12“WEEKEND,  P AGE  6
PHOTO BY KENJI BENNETT / GUARDIAN
Assemblymember Kevin McCarty 
(D-Sacramento) called for the 
resignation of UC Davis Chancellor 
Linda Katehi last Friday for serving on 
the Board of Directors of both DeVry 
University and textbook publisher 
John Wiley and Sons.
In his press release, McCarty stated 
that Katehi’s choice to serve on outside 
boards was inappropriate because 
DeVry’s and Wiley’s interests both 
conflict with those of her students.
“It is unseemly for the chancellor 
to be moonlighting side deals to fatten 
her bank account, especially when 
it runs contrary to the interests of 
our students who are strapped with 
decades of student debt to pay for 
the high costs of textbooks and other education expenses, ” McCarty said.
After receiving criticism for 
accepting the position on Feb. 22, 
Katehi resigned from the DeVry board 
on March 1. The controversy came 
in part because DeVry is currently 
facing accusations of publicizing false 
graduate employment and income 
statistics. However, it was not until 
the Sacramento Bee uncovered her 
involvement with John Wiley and Sons 
on March 3 that McCarty asked for her 
resignation as Chancellor. 
In a press release issued last Friday, 
Katehi offered no explanation for why 
she joined either board, but she did 
apologize for her actions, promising to 
donate the $200,000 she earned from 
her Wiley stocks back to UC Davis.
“I take my responsibilities as 
chancellor of UC Davis, and to the 
entire University of California, very seriously and sincerely regret having 
accepted service on boards that create 
appearances of conflict with my deep 
commitment to serve UC Davis and 
its students, ” Katehi stated. “I have 
resigned from the DeVry board and 
intend to donate all the stock proceeds 
I made from serving on the John Wiley 
and Sons board to a scholarship fund 
for UC Davis students. ”
According to the Sac Bee, in 
addition to her annual Chancellor 
salary of $424,360, Katehi received 
$420,000 from her seat on the 
Wiley board in stocks and income 
between 2012 and 2014. Her Security 
and Exchange Commission’s filings 
also indicate that she made $70,000 
annually in income and $100,000 in 
stocks from the DeVry board. Slates Face 
Grievances 
for Violating 
Election CodeA.S. ELECTION
One complaint charges 
Tritons United with listing 
false information on its 
campaign materials.
BY   J a c ky  T o  A N D  T I N A  B U T O I U
Tritons United — one of the two 
A.S. Election slates — currently faces 
a grievance for allegedly campaigning 
for Joey Giltner as their presidential 
candidate despite Giltner not being 
registered for the election. The bylaw 
in question is Election Code §4.1.b.2, 
which states that “Information intended 
to mislead or deceive voters as to the 
mechanics of the election shall not be 
written on any campaign material. ”
The grievance — which can be 
found on the A.S. Election website’s 
“Complaints Listing” — was filed 
by a student named Eric Ramirez. 
Attached to the grievance are four 
screenshots of Facebook posts from 
Tritons United and Joey Giltner that 
either imply or explicitly state that he 
is running for A.S. Council President.
Joey Giltner confirmed that 
he did not end up filing to be a 
presidential candidate but the slate 
had already ordered and printed 
materials with his name on it. 
He stated that Tritons United is 
aware of the claims and is currently 
addressing the alleged violations. 
In addition, Giltner discussed how 
Tritons United is willing to work 
with anyone to resolve any concerns 
that they have.
“I am apologetic if people are 
confused, ” Giltner told the UCSD 
Guardian. “ All of our contact 
information is up there [on the website] 
and I wish they would’ve contacted us 
before [they filed the grievance.] W e’re 
very responsive to any emails or texts 
that we do get. If they had questions, 
we would’ve loved to answer them and 
schedule a meeting. ”
However, Tritons United is 
currently in the process of revising 
its materials to emphasize the slate’s 
other candidates.
“To combat the confusion, we’re 
highlighting the senators because 
they are the voting members on A.S. 
Council, ” Giltner said. “They are who 
the school should be focusing on. ”
Students Determined, the 
opposing election slate, declined to 
comment on the grievance against 
Tritons United. The slate also faces 
a grievance for allegedly violating 
Election Code §3.5.e, which states 
that “If a slate wishes to reserve 
space on Library Walk during the 
campaigning period, the primary 
representative may reserve space 
through CSI/OneStop.” However, 
the complaint does not specifically 
state how the code was violated.University Spent $1 Billion 
on Hedge Fund Fees
The University of California’s largest labor union 
American Federation of State, County and Municipal 
Employees Local 3299 released a study in which it 
found that the university paid over $1 billion in fees to hedge 
fund managers over the last 12 years. 
In the research paper, titled “Missing the Mark: How 
Hedge Fund Investments at University of California 
Shortchange Students, Staff and California Taxpayers, ” 
AFSCME Local 3299 reports that the S&P 500 Index 
outperformed the university’s hedge fund investments by 
over 52 percent. Furthermore, the university could have 
earned approximately $783 million more by investing its 
hedge fund assets in its UC Retirement Plan and General 
Endowment Pool portfolios instead.
AFSCME Local 3299 spokesman Todd Stenhouse argued 
to the UCSD Guardian that his organization’s research 
questions the validity of every call for financial austerity the 
university has made over the last 12 years, many of which 
came at the expense of UC students and workers. 
“Between 2003 and 2015, your tuition tripled, student 
services were dramatically cut, staff was cut and employees took huge cuts to their retirement, ” Stenhouse said. “ All that 
time, we were told by the university, ‘It’s the problem of state 
divestment, it’s the problem of the recession, our students 
pay below-market in-state tuition rates. ’ Well, this study 
essentially calls that all into question. ”
Furthermore, A.S. President Dominick Suvonnasupa 
disagreed with investing in hedge funds when the 
university already has employees who were hired to 
manage its investments. 
“It doesn’t make sense to me that we’re paying people to 
overlook [the university’s finances] and also paying a hedge 
fund on the side, especially if the returns are lagging behind 
regular indexes, ” Suvonnasupa told the Guardian.
Though the study’s findings exhibit a trend in UC 
hedge fund investments, UC Office of the President media 
specialist Kate Moser called into question the relevance of 
the information the study is based on, considering that the 
university is currently looking to shift its investment focus 
away from hedge funds.
“The data used [in the study] predates the tenure of 
Chief Investment Officer Jagdeep Singh Bachher, ” Moser B y  Jacky To      News EditorUC SYSTEM
State Legislator Calls for Chancellor to Resign
The administrator took a Board position at DeVry, a for-profit school under federal investigation.See HEDGE , page 3
UC DAVIS
BY  L a u r e n   h o l t
STAFF WRITER
See GRIEVANCE , page 3 See CHANCELLOR , page 32 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MARCH 10, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
AVERAGE CAT By Christina Carlson
10% OFF
OF ANY PURCHASE
ON/Y APP/,CA%/E ON 0ARCH ă 0ARCH 1ă1
PULFH CHQWHU :HVW Ć 11 DP WR  SP Ć 'DWH UHVWULFWLRQV DSSO\
CalCopyUCSD@gmai l.comLowest
Prices POSTER PRINTINGPRINT/ COPY FILES
'' FedExFastest
ServiceReaders printed in 1 day.Cal Copy UCSD Course Readers
SAME DAY COLOR POSTER PRINTING!
REGISTER ONLINE  AT
AS.UCS D.EDU/ SAFERID ESREGISTRATION
FOR this quarter
IS NOW OPEN!
A.S. Safe Rides all ows 
registe red unde rgraduate 
students to get 3 FREE rid es 
per quarter. 
Students must r egister at 
least 2 4 hours prior t o their 
first ri de. Contact A.s. safe rides: (619) 564 - 799 8The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. Special thanks to Sherman and JGao for their 
work at the Guardian. Wouldn’t be the same without you!
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Marketing Co-Directors
Peter McInnis, Haley Asturias
Training and Development Manager
Cedric Hyon
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Vincent Pham
Tina Butoiu
Jacky To
Josh Lefler
Cassia Pollock
Quinn Pieper 
Marcus Thuillier
Dev Jain
Allison Kubo
Karly Nisson
Brittney Lu
Olga Golubkova
Megan Lee
Christian Duarte
Kenji Bennett
Ayat Amin
Joselynn Ordaz
Christina Carlson
Sophia Huang
Jennifer Grundman
Sage Schubert ChristianEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
News Editor
 
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports Editors
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Multimedia Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Design Editor
Art Editors
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Allison Kubo, Quinn Pieper, Jacky To
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim, Alicia Ho, Lisa Chik
Editorial Assistants  
Naftali Burakovsky, Oliver Kelton, Maria Sebas, 
Sam Velazquez, Nathan WalkerA team of researchers from 
UCSD’s School of Medicine, 
Stony Brook University and other 
institutions published a pilot study 
this week on how short-term stress 
can cause molecular alterations in 
immune responses.
Using tandem skydiving as the 
simulated psychological stressor, 
the researchers employed a range 
of biological measurements to 
determine the physiological and 
molecular responses to acute 
stressors, including RNA isolation 
and several kinds of gene expression 
analysis. 
The experiment’s participants 
were all healthy first-time divers 
who had blood and saliva samples 
taken at specific intervals, once at a 
week and an hour before, and then 
one day after skydiving. The results 
showed an increase in natural killer 
cells, an immune response that kills 
tumor cells and virus-infected cells. 
First co-author of the study and 
assistant project scientist at UCSD 
Nadejd Beliakova-Bethell explained 
another finding of the study — 
gender-specific differences in the 
molecular stress response.
“The results from our study point to a possibility that the differences in 
the immune cell response to stress at 
the [RNA level] vary between men 
and women, ” Beliakova-Bethell told 
the UCSD Guardian. 
Beliakova-Bethell elaborated 
on how genetic differences that 
are associated with stressful events 
may be linked to physical ailments, 
showing how psychological stress 
can manifest itself in tangible ways.
“Co-expressed genes associated 
to specific immune pathways were 
identified, ” Beliakova-Bethell said.  
“Further studies would be needed 
to validate association of these 
pathways with stressful life events 
and incidences of heart disease, 
post-traumatic stress disorder and 
possibly other diseases in men and 
in women. ”
Brinda Rana, co-author of the 
paper and associate professor in the 
department of psychiatry at UCSD’s 
School of Medicine, described how 
stress functions as a protective 
mechanism.
“Stress is how your body reacts 
to harmful events or environments, ” 
Rana told the Guardian.  “During an 
acute stress, a biochemical reaction 
is triggered in your body to prepare 
you and your body to prevent 
injury. ” 
According to Beliakova-Bethell, the type of stressful events, unique 
to students, could produce immune 
responses similar to those found in 
the study. 
“Students may experience both 
short-term and long-term stress 
in the course of their studies,” 
Beliakova-Bethell said. “Taking an 
exam may be a short-term stress 
for some people, if they stress in 
anticipation of the test on that day. 
On the other hand, stressing about 
an exam throughout the review 
period, worrying about not being 
able to complete all the necessary 
requirements for obtaining a degree, 
and even being away from family 
constitute long-term stress that may 
result in adverse consequences, such 
as anxiety and depression. ” 
For many students, college 
can be a stressful experience. The 
National College Health Assessment 
estimated that about a third of 
college students had difficulty 
functioning in the last year due to 
depression, while over half said they 
felt overwhelming anxiety in 2013. 
UCSD’s own Counseling and 
Psychological Services produced 
a short video about stress 
management. The video includes 
suggestions such as eating healthier, 
being active and setting realistic 
short-term goals that demonstrate the relationship between state of 
mind and physical well-being, 
similarly to how the study found 
psychological stressors to have 
physiological impacts. 
Beliakova-Bethell highlighted 
the ways psychological stress affects 
the body over time at the molecular 
level, resulting in physical maladies.
“ As opposed to acute stress, 
chronic stress over weeks, months 
or years has detrimental effects, 
such as suppression of the immune 
response,” Beliakova-Bethell said. 
“The result may be inability to 
adequately respond to pathogens, 
hence increased susceptibility to 
infectious diseases, such as flu or 
common cold. ” 
Rana said that the newer, 
advanced technologies will allow 
for further follow-up studies that 
focus at the molecular level of stress. 
“[These studies are] just getting 
started, ” Rana told the Guardian, 
“ And as we start applying these new 
technologies, we’ll learn a lot more 
about how stress at the molecular 
level impacts the cells, the tissues 
and the physiology of the subjects. ”SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
Acute Stress Causes Changes to the Body at the Molecular Level
Researchers discovered that subjects experienced alterations in their immune system after enduring stressful events.
BY   r e b e c ca   c h o n g
STAFF WRITER
rebecca  chong   rcchong@ucsd.edu
Contact Jonathan Gao, DDSNEED A ROOT CANAL?
Good luck at UCSF!in 4 years
Photo by Sara RaheelGiltner told the Guardian that 
he would try to work with the 
complainant to retract her grievance.
“The person who filed that 
grievance is not affiliated with us at 
all, but I know her and have asked 
her to drop it because I get what was 
happening and it’s just not that big 
of a deal, ” Giltner said.
According to A.S. Elections 
Manager Claire Maniti, for any 
grievances filed, the Elections 
Committee will hold a hearing 
regarding the alleged violation and 
make a ruling on it during the first 
two weeks of Spring Quarter. 
“If a slate is found in violation of an election bylaw code, appropriate 
sanctions would be applied, ” Maniti 
told the UCSD Guardian.
All three registered presidential 
candidates — Dominick Suvonnasupa 
(Tritons United), Daniel Juarez 
(Students Determined) and Rush 
Patel (independent) — declined to 
comment on the grievances. Also, the 
Guardian contacted Eric Ramirez 
but he could not be reached by 
press time.
Additional reporting by Olga 
Golubkova, Quinn Pieper and 
Maria Sebas.Shortly after Katehi released her 
public apology on Friday, UC President 
Janet Napolitano issued a statement 
thanking Katehi for the apology and 
praising her record.
“I appreciate that Chancellor 
Katehi has apologized and taken 
responsibility for having accepted 
board positions that created an 
appearance of conflicts of interest 
with her University responsibilities, ” 
Napolitano said. “I deeply value 
Linda’s strong record in helping to 
make UC Davis a world-class center 
of scholarship and research, and 
continue to believe in the value of her 
contributions to the University. ”  
UC Davis A.S. Council President Mariah Watson told the UCSD 
Guardian that although she does 
not believe the Katehi’s apology is 
sufficient, she has yet to decide if the 
chancellor’s resignation would be 
beneficial because Katehi is invested in 
a number of important projects.
“I am not necessarily sure that this is 
an offense that is worthy of somebody 
stepping down over, especially in the 
middle of the year where we have 
a number of different projects that 
are contingent on [Katehi’s] support, ” 
W atson stated. “We are launching a 
sexual assault awareness campaign 
to which the chancellor’s office has 
been really helping, and we have had 
a number of hate crimes and events 
on our campus and student suicides 
to which her leadership has been invaluable during this time period. ”
However, UC Davis freshman 
Knarik Y egiazaryan supports Katehi’s 
possible resignation, explaining to the 
Guardian that she empathizes with 
McCarty’s thoughts on the issue.
“I do agree with Assemblyman 
McCarty because I understand why he 
feels as though [Katehi] is unfit to be 
the chancellor since she appears to be 
acting in a manner that contradicts her 
duties and interests to the university, ” 
Ye g i a z ar y an  s ai d .
McCarty also announced that 
legislative hearings will take place to 
investigate the issue in the UC system 
and other areas of higher education. said. “Reducing the number of 
outside hedge fund managers has 
been a key priority of the CIO’s office 
under Bachher. ”
On the other hand, Stenhouse 
thinks the university’s newfound 
priorities speak to the legitimacy of 
their findings. Pointing out that the 
university paid $96 million to hedge 
fund managers just last year, he argues 
that the financiers of the university 
must demand financial transparency 
from the administration.
“What [UCOP] has alleged or 
asserted really validates the study as 
a whole, ” Stenhouse said. “ A strategy 
was employed that did not deliver as promised and cost the UC system 
mightily, which by extension cost 
its students, its staff and California 
taxpayers mightily. We would all 
be well-advised not to forget but to 
double down on real scrutiny and real 
accountability to make sure this type of 
thing never happens again. ”
To further this point, he emphasized 
that the union is not making any 
financial recommendations to the 
university. By requesting that the 
UC Board of Regents disclose all 
hedge fund fees and conduct an asset 
allocation review to identify alternative 
investment strategies, it instead appeals 
to the university to communicate 
honestly with its constituents.
“Notably, this paper does not call for divestment, ” Stenhouse said. “What 
it calls for is transparency, inclusion, 
real dialogue and a little bit of candor 
from those at the Regents level who 
have led the call for austerity while, 
at the same time, turning a blind eye 
to investments that not only failed 
to deliver as promised, but may have 
ended up costing the university 
hundreds upon hundreds of millions 
of dollars unnecessarily. ”
Stenhouse expressed his hope 
that this paper encourages not only 
a discussion about hedge fund 
investments but also regarding all 
aspects of the university’s decisions.NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MARCH 10, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
UCSD  4.6875” W x 8” HPepperdine is committed to the highest standards of 
academic excellence and Christian values.
To start your transformation, get in touch today.  
310.568.5600 or 866.503.5467  
gsep-recruitment@pepperdine.edu • gsep.pepperdine.eduimpact  
 leo’s  
  life
Transform the lives of children with 
a Master of Arts in Teaching 
(with preliminary credential) 
from Pepperdine
SE1602028 MAT Print Ads.indd   8 2/15/16   8:18 AMUnion Calls on UC Regents to Release All Hedge Fund Records
Napolitano Accepted Katehi’s Apology In Spite of  Public Criticism Grievance Hearings to Take Place in Spring
▶ CHANCELLOR,  from page 1 ▶ GRIEVANCE,  from page 1▶ HEDGE,  from page 1
Jacky to   j6to@ucsd.edu
Lauren  hol t   lcholt@ucsd.eduLooking for the 
New Business 
Column?
Now posted every Wednesday night, 
after the A.S. Council 
meeting, online.
ucsdguardian.org
jacky to   j6to@ucsd.edu
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG see more at4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MARCH 10, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CASSIA POLLOCK
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
AN   ETHICAL 
DIVESTMENT
The University of California 
was founded with the aim to 
make education accessible to all 
socioeconomic groups. For-profit 
schools, on the other hand, are 
established to generate revenue. 
DeVry University, at which UC 
Davis Chancellor Linda Katehi 
recently accepted a position, is one 
example of profit-oriented values, 
as the “educational” institution is 
currently being investigated by the 
Federal Trade Commission for false 
advertising. 
Katehi said she was unaware it 
was happening, indicating she either 
possesses a faulty moral compass or is 
such a negligent administrator that a 
federal investigation flew underneath 
her radar. In her resignation letter, 
she claimed to have accepted the 
position due to a belief that she 
could help improve “the educational 
experiences of the students attending 
DeVry institutions. ” This comment, 
as vague as it is, reeks of deception 
and absurdity. As chancellor of a 
university with over 36,000 students 
and a plethora of issues, the idea 
of wanting to help another school’s 
students improve their “educational 
experiences” is irresponsible.
Even before joining DeVry’s 
board, she was on the board of 
textbook publisher John Wiley and 
Sons, which profits off the financial 
vulnerability and limited options of 
students. Over the course of three 
years at the company, she made a total of $420,000 in stocks and income. 
In an effort to regain the public’s 
favor, Katehi pledged to donate 
$200,000 in textbook company stock 
to a scholarship fund for UC Davis 
students. Despite this, her record 
remains tainted and her credibility 
remains doubtful at best.
Despite how troubling Katehi’s 
moonlighting activities are, 
according to UC policy, she adhered 
to campus regulations when she 
accepted her board seat with DeVry 
Education Group. While UC 
employees “are expected to devote 
primary professional allegiance to 
the University and to the mission 
of teaching, research and public 
service, ” they are technically allowed 
to “moonlight” and receive sources 
of revenue through other forms 
of employment. As long as there 
aren’t “actual or perceived conflicts 
between the University’s mission 
and an individual’s private interests, ” 
administrators can shine their 
moonlight as far as they’ d like. 
Herein lies the problem: The 
university allows its administrators 
to divert their time away from their 
own campus and students. One would 
think that if someone is hired to do 
a job, especially one as important as 
being a university chancellor, that 
person should focus on doing that 
job. Not to mention, the fact that 
the university allowed for any type 
of relationship to develop with a 
company under federal investigation, regardless of their involvement in 
Katehi’s affairs, shows that maybe the 
university isn’t as committed to its 
values as it claims to be. 
Katehi’s actions aside, mixing 
private and public interests when 
the welfare of students is involved 
is unacceptable, especially when 
it engages with an enterprise that 
is entirely divorced from — and 
contrary to — the value of a public 
education. If the university wants 
to continue referring to itself as a 
public institution, policies must be 
revised to prioritize the interests of 
UC students. Although it is arguably 
the role of the UC president to 
represent the values of the university, 
and therefore students, Napolitano’s 
dismissal of Katehi’s moonlighting 
as a mere “appearance of conflicts of 
interests” contradicts this. Fortunately 
for students, there is a check on 
administrators in the form of the 
California State Legislature, which 
holds the university’s purse strings. 
Assemblyman Kevin McCarty’s 
(D-Sacramento) call for Katehi’s 
resignation and to hold legislative 
hearings regarding UC moonlighting 
policies could very begin a process to 
properly define who the University of 
California was made for.  Evidently, 
and unfortunately, students cannot 
look to their own university to hold 
their administrators accountable for 
their failed commitment. Luckily, the 
state will step in to ensure this is not 
the case in the future.UC Faculty Should Avoid Conflict of Interests Regarding Academic Priorities
Vincent Pham
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Tina Butoiu
MANAGING EDITOR  
Cassia Pollock
OPINION EDITOR
Quinn Pieper
ASSOCIATE OPINION EDITOR
Nathan Walker
EDITORIAL ASSISTANT
Jacky To
NEWS EDITOR
Allison Kubo
FEATURES EDITOR
Olga Golubkova
CO-LIFESTYLE EDITOREDITORIAL  BOARD
The UCSD Guardian is published twice a week at the 
University of California at San Diego. Contents © 
2015. Views expressed herein represent the majority 
vote of the editorial board and are not necessarily those 
of the UC Board of Regents, the ASUCSD or the 
members of the Guardian staff. The UCSD A.S. Council unanimously voted last Wednesday 
to sell its bonds and investments from the national bank of the 
Republic of Turkey for its continued refusal to acknowledge 
the horror of the 1915 Armenian genocide, a terrible act of 
racial cleansing that led to the death of an estimated 1.5 million 
Armenians. This negligence continues even after widespread 
intellectual and international agreement about the facts of the 
events, according to the New Y ork Times. Turkey’s refusal to even 
acknowledge these crimes is a blatant attempt at whitewashing 
a dark historical period, and the Guardian’s Editorial Board 
applauds A.S. Council for divesting more than $74 million of our 
student fees and sending a strong message that we will not support 
a country which refuses to acknowledge a history of racial bigotry. 
The Armenian Genocide began almost 101 years ago on 
April 24, 1915, when Ottoman officials forcefully deported 
or murdered Armenian intellectuals from the capital of 
Constantinople. Ottoman officials then began systematically 
eliminating Armenian citizens via death marches, concentration 
camps or by burning them alive. These events are recognized by 
the the vast majority of international organizations, including the 
International Association of Genocide Scholars and the Council 
of Europe, yet are officially denied by the Turkish government according to the BBC. If Turkey were to admit the reality of such 
a brutal ethnic cleansing, it would also have to admit how the 
killers went unpunished. It would also have to admit its current 
discriminatory practices, much of them aimed at Armenians and 
Kurdish communities which continue to face Turkish bombings, 
as reported by the BBC. Turkey has also recently jailed journalists, 
shut down newspapers and cracked down on dissent in the name 
of “public safety, ” according to CNN. In the context of such blatant 
restriction on free speech, A.S. Council’s decision is logical and 
extremely relevant given these human rights abuses. 
Furthermore, there is substantial evidence to suggest that 
removing our student fee money from a country produces 
meaningful and positive change. Under the South African 
Apartheid, millions of black Africans were restricted from 
voting, attending school or participating in society. The South 
African government also encouraged extreme police beatings, 
imprisonments and murders in the name of racial segregation.
UC Berkeley students led the charge in helping remove 
millions of dollars from South Africa’s banks and bonds, setting an 
example that the rest of the UC system eventually followed. This 
divestment coupled with an extremely effective boycott damaged 
the South African economy and shined an international spotlight 
See DIVESTMENT, page 5The UCSD A.S. Council’s recent vote to divest from the Republic of Turkey is 
necessary to distance the university from the country’s denial of the Armenian 
genocide. This decision makes UCSD the seventh UC to divest from their bonds.ILLUSTRA TION   B Y DA VID JUAREZHow-To 
Guru: 
Rise Above 
Finals Week
The most dreaded time of the 
quarter has arrived. Y es, finals week 
is descending upon the students of 
UCSD once again. It’s important 
to finish off strong. Start forming a 
study plan by renewing your Netflix 
subscription. Remember, if you can’t 
Netflix it, you can’t fix it. In other 
words, when you’re totally screwed 
over for your finals, resume binge 
watching “Parks and Recreation. ” 
This won’t actually fix your academic 
dilemmas, but it will provide a 
temporary oasis of stress relief which 
is the key to excelling in your classes.
Say it with me: stress relief. An 
important strategy for getting a 
slam-dunk grade on all your exams, 
is learning how to be the master of 
your emotions. Unleash your inner 
sociopath to get a good GPA. Stare at 
your professors as they pass around 
exam papers with a cold, menacing 
look in your eyes. Will you pass? Will 
you fail? Who cares? This grade will 
not be the sole determining factor in 
predicting your destiny. The ability to 
divorce yourself from all sentiments of 
caring or motivation to study is key.
The next step is to destroy all 
evidence that you had previously 
studied for the class. Did the professor 
send you a powerpoint of all their 
lectures? Delete it. Do you have stacks 
of spiral notebooks with carefully 
handwritten notes? Shred it. Focus on 
the present moment. If you look back 
at all the past material in the class, 
this will only cloud your determined 
mind with superfluous thoughts 
and doubts. All of this information 
is ingrained into your brain. As the 
How-To Guru, I can tell you that 
the first answer which you consider 
penning on an exam is almost always 
correct. Students flunk out when they 
doubt the absolute infallibility of their 
thought processes.
Let’s discuss a hypothetical 
scenario pertaining to your exams. 
The TA hands everybody in your 
lecture a scantron sheet and a test 
paper filled with abstract questions 
and multiple choice answers. As 
you begin to read the questions, 
your mind goes completely blank. 
Y our state of being is empty, silent 
and at peace with itself. That is 
an unmistakable sign that you’ve 
successfully reached nirvana. 
Congratulations on fully embodying 
the spiritual, academic state of self-
actualization.
While you contemplate the 
meaning of life, go ahead and fill out 
your scantron as the mighty spirit 
of the How-To Guru guides your 
hand. As you hand your professor 
a scantron, they may look slightly 
alarmed when they notice your 
answer sheet resembles a beautiful 
mandala of colorful bubbles. Respond 
with a warm smile and a meaningful 
gaze. Then turn around and walk out 
of the lecture. It doesn’t matter if you 
fail, because you’ve already won life.
Don’t forget to celebrate the 
middle of finals week by participating 
in the campuswide undie run. As you 
sprint across campus, imagine that 
each article of clothing you joyously 
fling aside, represents the academic 
baggage of each paper and test. Enjoy 
a relaxing splash through the revelle 
fountain, as the ice cold water pierces 
your skin. No amount of hypothermia 
can overshadow the joy you feel, 
as you realize you’ve never actually 
picked up a book this entire quarter.facebook.com/ucsdguardianOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MARCH 10, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
under the cruel racist practices of 
Apartheid. Similarly, Turkey should 
face international and economic 
pressure for its racist refusal to admit 
its wrongdoings. By withdrawing 
our money from the bonds of 
the Republic of Turkey, UCSD — 
and the other six UC campuses 
— has sent a message of unity 
with displaced and discriminated 
Armenians who continue to live in 
the shadow of the eradication of an 
entire generation. 
The Editorial Board strongly 
believes in the freedom of cultural 
liberty, the belief that all cultures 
and societies deserve the right to 
function free of oppression and the threat of eradication. This belief is 
critical to our role as students as we 
shed light on issues that marginalize 
communities, many of which have 
historically been subjugated to 
extreme disenfranchisement, death 
and systematic eradications of their 
ways of life. We believe that the 
struggle against discrimination is 
universal and takes many different 
forms, some of which initially 
seem unrelated to the persecution 
of a group of individuals. In this 
case, the decision to divest the 
UCSD hedge fund from Turkey 
will not directly force Turkey to 
acknowledge the crimes of the 
past, nor will it help return the 
lives of the 1.5 million Armenians 
murdered for their culture. However, the A.S. decision will 
demonstrate UCSD’s commitment 
against cultural genocide, and it 
will help send a clear and strong 
message of unity to the millions of 
oppressed groups who continue to 
see their freedoms suppressed. 
Divesting is an important tool of 
our institution to create change in 
countries where we otherwise lack 
power and influence to preserve 
cultural liberty. UCSD will also be 
part of a growing movement of the 
international fight for everyone’s 
right to live according to their 
culture and beliefs. The UCSD 
Guardian’s Editorial Board therefore 
applauds A.S. Council for divesting 
from Turkey as part of a global fight 
for cultural liberty.
GET READY FOR
UC SAN DIEGO BOX OFFICE
VISIT US at the Plaza Level in Price Center(858) 534-TIXS
boxoffice.ucsd.edu
 Spring
    Break
SAVE UP TO 40%  ON TICKETS TO
DISNEYLAND • KNOTT’S • LEGOLAND
SD ZOO & SAFARI PARK • SEAWORLD
SIX FLAGS • UNIVERSAL STUDIOS • & MORE
!!
!
!
Dr. Terranova, Dr. Sherman, and Dr. Horne
TORREY PINES
DENTAL ARTS
We welcome UCSD Staff & Students
Richard L Sherman DDS
Steven B. Horne DDS
Scripps/Ximed Medical Center
9850 Genessee Avenue #720
La Jolla, CA 92037
858-453-5525
Info@TorreyPinesDentalArts.com
www.TorreyPinesDentalArts.com'"! $! $
$""
'"	!# !
'%""!
 !
'
!&!! #!
 " !! "	!
"	#!
Karmonize.org  is a student organization
where we can support good causes,
cooperate, and volunteer to
improve the UCSD community.HELP OTHERS, FIND HELP
WHEN YOU NEED IT, AND
MAKE KARMA REAL!
facebook.com/ucsdguardian
▶ DIVESTMENT from page 4GOT ISSUES?
BE HEARD
BY YOUR PEERS!SEND YOUR 
LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Divestment from Turkey Demonstrates Commitment to Global ResponsibilityAs week 10 comes to a close, 
students bloom into their finals 
week personae, complete with a 
gloriously unhygienic ensemble 
fit for the Library Walk runway 
to Geisel. The classic statement 
pieces? Gucci eye bags in the 
shade charcoal. These never fail 
to go out of style year after year, 
final after final. The coffee- and 
pizza-stained shirt — a seasonal 
item — is a comfortable go-to, but 
also provides insight into the diet of 
the sleep-deprived student (coupled 
with the aromatic cup of freshly 
brewed coffee in hand — and let’s 
not forget the iced coffee reserves 
in the fridge). And if their caffeine 
supply is depleted, fluffy socks and 
sandals help keep these poor souls 
warm as they make the trek to the 
nearest market or Starbucks to 
hunt for food (i.e. more pizza) and 
replenish the energy drink stockpile. 
To complete the look, tiffany blue books 
and scantrons are necessary accessories for 
the finals week plight.
—   MARIA  MANALANG  
Staff Writer
Chances are, if you’re not from the East Coast, 
Russia or any place currently not facing a drought 
that could eliminate the entire carrot industry, the 
smallest of sprinkles might as well be torrential 
downpour. So when SoCal starts to rain — otherwise 
known to non-California natives as morning dew — 
the UCSD student go-to is nearly universal, and in 
itself, the most absurd of paradoxes. 
Once gray clouds appear, almost instantaneously, 
waterproof North Face jackets and beanies come 
out of hiding, accompanying, of course, the staple 
UCSD hoodie or, to spice things up, the occasional 
flannel with a built-in hood. 
But let’s take a moment and recognize 
that even during the worst El Nino 
has brought to sunny San Diego, 
there are still many that solemnly 
swear to wearing Rainbows through 
rain or shine. Perhaps this utter 
juxtaposition is to resemble a poetic 
notion that as San Diegans, there is an 
unspoken duty to boycott all closed-toe 
shoes; either that, or every stock photo 
ever reproduced in UCSD promotion 
packets have been perpetuating lies 
that all we need to survive here are a 
pair of $50 flip-flops. 
—   BRITTNEY  LU   
Lifestlye Co-EditorNew York has Lincoln Center, Paris has Carrousel 
du Louvre and UCSD has Library Walk. No need 
to drop thousands for a upscale show when a cement 
block gives a VIP view to the best up-and-coming 
trends UCSD has to offer. 
Just as Diane von Furstenberg iconicized 
the wrap dress, Herve Leger the bandage dress 
and Miley Cyrus the teddy bear onesie, UCSD 
students have curated their own statement 
look that treads the fine line between being just 
homogeneous enough to subtly nod towards a 
corporate suffering under the wrath of Chem 6A 
and MMW 14, while touching a level of versatility 
that accommodates gender inclusivity and the 
slightest of idiosyncrasies. 
So what’s trending? A must-have is the traditional 
UCSD sweater — whether crew-neck or hoodie, gray 
or navy blue, with or sans zipper, put that Triton Cash 
to use and fund university pride. Pair this cotton classic 
with a very limited choice between either soccer pants 
or leggings; and for footwear, nothing quite says “I 
need to make it from Pepper Canyon  to HSS in ten 
minutes” like a pair of Nike Frees. To carry all the 
essentials — including a Hydro Flask bottle — invest 
in a Herschel, but always keep everything monochromatic. No 
one wants to be the student whose lemon yellow backpack blinds 
half the population on their way to an 8 a.m. class.
—   BRITTNEY LU
Lifestlye Co-Editor
Attending a school so close to the beach 
makes it easy, natural even, to adopt the 
surfer lifestyle. Only two style components 
are required to fully embrace the surfer 
identity: a wetsuit and surfboard. Before 
hitting the waters, surf the Internet first for 
a cheap surfboard. There are pieces better 
off thrifted, with Craigslist as the Goodwill 
of surfboards. Used wetsuits are not as 
promising, considering the limited lifespan 
of some lower-end suits (and think of how 
the original user may have peed in their 
wetsuit — no one wants that). If you’re not 
yet confident enough to the waves, listen to 
Beyonce’s “Drunk in Love, ” fill up your tub 
half-way and ride it with your surfboard 
(surfboard, surfboard). And if you’re 
feeling a little more brave and liberated, hit 
up Black’s Beach in your birthday suit and 
thrifted surfboard. Unlike in some other universities 
where Friday attire must serve as 
a blatant representation of your family’s 
yearly income, it is hard to underdress 
for a night out at UCSD. The casual 
character of the majority of 
local events, coupled with the 
subtropical climate of San Diego, 
allows party attendees to cover as 
little of their bodies as possible. 
Short skirts and bandeaus, muscle 
tees and jeans for girls, boys and other 
folks, are a UCSD student’s fashion 
statement that screams, “I am done with 
midterms and ready to stay up all night 
to have fun. ” These items are also a truly 
pragmatic choice — the less you wear, the 
slimmer your chance of spilling a drink on 
your clothes, meaning you will not have to 
feel like a clumsy five-year-old and deal with 
a line of furious individuals waiting for you 
to finish washing off the stain of shame in 
the bathroom. 
Equally important is the fact that a comfortable, 
sleeveless outfit frees you from the fear of ripping 
your favorite chic item while doing a presidential 
candidate-level dab. Isn’t it how you really should 
dress to impress?
—   OLGA  GOLUBK OV A   
Lifestyle Co-Editor
Sometimes we forget they exist and sometimes we 
prefer to ignore them to avoid feeling inferior, 
but they are among us — the People in Black are 
always on the mission. Their classic blazers, white 
button-ups, slacks, ties and glasses may trick you into 
thinking that they are just average office workers, 
but these gentlefolks are not here to obey and follow 
the rules — at least, not yet. Ready to slay their 
competitors with skills, past experience, expertise 
and personal interests, the people we are talking 
about are job fair attendants.  
With only three career fair events per quarter, they 
are a rare and unique phenomenon. Unlike other 
students, job fair attendants don’t carry backpacks 
and handbags — their only weapon easily fits in one 
hand. Capable of affecting memory just as well as a 
neuralyzer, a one-sheet resume is all a job 
fair attendant needs to make an employer 
remember them for a minute, day, week or 
until the interview opportunity.
Calm on the outside, eager on the 
inside, these individuals are trained to 
wait in ambush for hours — career fair 
lines have never been short. That being 
said, just like a regular NYPD officer 
James Darrell Edwards III turned 
Agent J, you can easily turn into a job 
fair attendant. Just dress up in your 
best “buis-cas, ” print out a copy of your 
CV and arm yourself with patience. 
—   OLGA  GOLUBK OV A
Lifestyle Co-Editor6     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MARCH 9, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
TRITON TRENDSCOMPILED BY  LIFESTYLE STAFF WRITERS
PHOTOS BY  KENJI BENNETT 
                        The    
 UCSD   Classic
                     U C S D     A T  THE  BEACH                        finals   
           Week   
         Chic
                       UCSD   
UNDER THE     
UMBRELLA           Frida y           
triton
                              JOB  F AIR       
AT T E N D A N T—   MARIA  MANALANG
Staff WriterWrong are those who say that UCSD students do not have a distinct fashion style. 
After all, we are the only ones to rock blue and yellow UCSD sweatshirts. From 
school pride infused merchandise, classic wetsuits and flipflops, the Guardian 
uncovers the typical closet of the UCSD student — with all classic looks modeled 
by our one and only editor in chief, Vincent Pham.
 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MARCH 10, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
Did you regret any trends you took on in the past?
Yes. There was one year where I pushed experimentation to the 
extreme and changed the color of my hair and tried all kinds of 
clothing combinations that actually created a shock factor more than 
looking good altogether. It was a year where I was trying to figure out who 
I was, and some of the challenging parts of my identity journey would 
show in the confusing ensembles I threw together. Although I regret the 
appearance I adopted, I look back and see all the ways that I’ve grown in 
my expression and understanding of self. D:G:How has personal style changed for you over the years? Would you 
say that what you wear now better represents who you are? GUARDIAN :
Growing up with hand-me-downs and clothes that weren’t really my 
own didn’t allow me to start experimenting with my own style and 
look until college. Every year in my five years at UCSD, I’ve played around 
with different looks, but after trying out so many different styles, I’ve figured 
out what is expressive of me and what isn’t — with my collection of colored 
pants (boasting 22 colors!) playing a huge part in exploring my style! Putting 
together an outfit and wearing it out gives me confidence, because I’m no 
longer dressing to impress others, and I feel comfortable not worrying about 
having to look like other people or necessarily fit any kind of aesthetic, which 
has definitely helped me express myself more freely. DARREN :Darren Oei, UCSD Alumni — Marshall
Interviewed by Brittney Lu // Lifestyle Co-Editor
 As painful as it may be to unearth such memories, 
describe your scene or emo phase. GUARDIAN :
Oh God. My emo phase. I don’t remember what about 
it I found alluring … maybe it was the intense hair 
that covered the eye, or the fact that emo equaled wearing dark 
clothes 24/7, or maybe it was just the appeal of Hot Topic. Y eah, it 
might have been Hot Topic. There’s a bunch of anime shit there so 
that’s why I went at first, but then I kind of got forcefully pulled into 
the rest of what being in Hot Topic entails: It means being a scene/
emo kid (at least that’s what it meant to me). I guess my emo phase 
wasn’t that bad (emphasis on “that”). It was pretty strange though, 
now that I think about it. I did the whole dark-everything wardrobe 
thing, yeah. But I also would go on Photobucket and literally look 
up “emo pictures” and I would just sit there, browsing for hours. For 
some reason these pixel-y drawings and icons and whatever really 
appealed to me at the time (probably because I was a little sheltered 
12-year-old who had been going to Catholic school her whole life). 
So yeah. Oh and I’ d listen to Linkin Park and Fall Out Boy a lot ... but 
I’ d also listen to anime shit a lot too. So, I guess my “emo phase” was 
a weird bastardized mixture of whatever I saw on Photobucket and 
being an anime nerd or whatever. I guess the only real embarrassing 
things about the phase were my “emo journal entries” and my horrific 
MySpace page. And the only bad thing that resulted from my emo 
phase was that I began to see cutting as a normal means to coping with 
problems, and even though I’ve never cut myself before that, it seemed 
really normal at the time. So I guess that’s one way my emo phase 
fucked me up. Other than that, it was really harmless physically, but 
retrospectively was just an embarrassing attempt to be cool. Gross.MICHELLE :Michelle Viado, Second Year — Warren   
Interviewed by Maria Manalang // Lifestyle Staff Writer
Then and NOW: Fashion Phases
UCSD Style Edition
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGCheck Out More Weekend Conent AtUSED WITH PERMISSION FROM DARREN OEI8     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MARCH 10, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  WEEKEND
cashing  your  investment
by   s.a.  eberweinBOOK   REVIEW
S.A. Eberwein, the author of 
“Cashing Y our Investment” — a 
new addition to the genre of self-
help, job-searching books — is no 
dubious, self-anointed “expert” in 
the field, but a bona fide insider. In 
the first few pages, he recounts his 
experience of touring one of the firms 
he had been interested in working 
for; his immediate reflection of 
“What do I need to do to get a job 
here?” is probably representative 
of what a majority of prospective 
employees would think, in addition 
to feeling increasingly overwhelmed. 
Eberwein, an ambitious college senior 
uncompromisingly bent on getting 
a job on W all Street, approached his 
problem methodically and thoroughly, 
sending out an avalanche of cover 
letters, cold calls and tailored resumes. 
His methods worked. After five years 
at an investment bank in New Y ork, 
he moved to Dallas and (presumably) 
wrote this book, which, despite some 
overly corporate, noun-heavy prose, 
offers detailed and intelligent advice 
on how to transition from being a 
college student to being a sought-after, 
white-collar worker. 
To readers who may or may not 
have anxiously dabbled — desperate 
to have someone provide structure 
to an otherwise inscrutable future — 
in rational-sounding corners of the 
Internet (here’s looking at you, Study 
Hacks), Eberwein’s book will offer 
both a meticulous breakdown of what 
you need to do to be competitive and 
an opportunity to relax: He’s got you 
covered. No, he really does. He goes 
over all of the following, giving a mix 
of standard and unique instruction on 
each subject: proper attitude, finding 
and utilizing a mentor, searching 
for jobs, discerning the merits of on-campus resources, networking, 
maximizing your internship, cold 
calling, talking to recruiters, the 
benefits of working for free (as a 
last resort), interviewing and the 
aesthetics of your resume. Though 
Eberwein is predisposed to focus on 
examples mostly from Wall Street-
type employers and candidates, his 
teachings seem easily transferrable to 
other areas of work. 
There are few things to dislike 
about “Cashing, ” but among them 
are Eberwein’s tendency to repeat 
his points under the guise of a more 
insightful rephrasing, the grating use 
of cliches and the use of language 
resembling corporate jargon (e.g., the 
sly surfacings of the word “capacitate” 
in the early chapters). His book could 
probably be drastically reduced in 
page count if he were to edit out 
such paragraphs like the one in his 
“Craft a Superior Resume” chapter, in 
which he takes 108 words to say that 
resumes are extremely important, 
even if a potential candidate has 
been recommended, because it 
establishes a first impression and 
because interviewers will continually 
refer to it. Most of the blame for 
this could probably be directed at 
his editor, since according to his 
employment history, Eberwein’s area 
of expertise is not writing. However, 
where Eberwein does draw from his 
experience, in his detailed how-to 
for obtaining an enviable job, he 
provides the best argument for why 
this book is a smart investment for 
any future-looking student.
—   Jennifer  Grundman 
 Staff Writer
we  can  do  anything 
by   melissa  p alafox
Release Date Jan. 22
Violent Femmes attempts a comeback that 
creates mixed results in their latest release.ALBUM   REVIEW
Damn Violent Femmes, back at 
it again with those uncanny 
lyrics. If you have not heard of Violent 
Femmes, you must have at least heard 
of their ludicrous ‘80s single “Blister 
in the Sun. ” Fusing punk with folk 
and a mixture of youthful lyrics, the 
track easily represents the band’s raw 
and silly sound. Y ears later, in the 
midst of rock band reunions like that 
of Fleetwood Mac, Violent Femmes 
came together in hopes of remastering 
that sound and awakening their 
musical journey with their latest 
release “We Can Do Anything. ”
After a hiatus of 16 years, Violent 
Femmes relies on the nostalgia 
feeling brought by reunions to 
successfully bring back their sound 
to a new decade. They do prove one 
thing in their album: They still hold 
that same passion for making music 
with an animated attitude. Despite 
their differences, bandmates Gordon 
Gano and Brian Ritchie collaborate 
to provide listeners with original, 
entertaining recordings after a long 
period consisting of nothing but 
greatest-hits albums. Album opener, 
“Memory, ” is one of the few imposing 
melodies, with guitar riffs that 
contain the same lively attitude fans 
will recognize and love. “Holy Ghost” 
is the album’s acoustic number with 
volatile vocals reminiscent of their 
hit “Kiss Off. ” Album closer “I’m 
Not Done” delivers a farewell with a 
western feel.
The album tracklist is somewhat 
consistent, with quirky lyrics of 
fighting fire-breathing dragons mixed with witty vocals, but also 
contains aimless themes of going 
to work and travelling. Needless to 
say, the inclusion of the guitar and 
banjo in most tracks is catchy and 
succeeds in capturing the essence 
of the rustic character inherent in 
previous albums. Other aspects 
don’t represent the true adolescent 
nature of the band, with lyrics 
“ After work I just go berzerkers” 
or “Come on in my car I got a big 
one” being too plain and corny for 
an album just meant to be a back to 
the basics movement. While some 
tracks capture their old soft punk 
tunes and signature acoustic guitar 
strumming, unfamiliar tracks like 
“Foothills” and “Issues” fail to deliver 
the same nostalgic feeling. Their 
new, country-like vibes and uneven 
harmonies may not fit well with 
Violent Femmes’ old easy going style, 
but succeed in delivering a carefree 
vibe that both parents and the new 
generations can enjoy.
Whether you loved the Violent 
Femmes in the ‘80s or just got 
introduced to them, “We Can Do 
Anything” is a representation of a 
band slowly climbing their way back 
into the music industry.
The album’s wacky themes and 
amateurish sound combine to create 
a solid revival that captures their 
enduring youthful personas.
—   melissa  p alafox
Contributing Writer
The trailer for “Whiskey Tango 
Foxtrot” gives the impression 
that it is a comedy about war zone 
journalism; it isn’t.
Tina Fey portrays middle-
aged news writer Kim Baker, who 
decides to venture outside of her 
comfort zone because she feels that 
she’s been moving backwards by 
remaining in the same place. She 
decides to take a short, three-month 
assignment in Kabul, Afghanistan, 
to regain control and focus over her 
life. But the draw of the “Kabubble, ” 
as the film calls it, keeps her there 
for longer than planned.
Her “fixer” Fahim Ahmadzai 
(Christopher Abbott), and veteran 
war reporter Tanya Vanderpoel 
(Margot Robbie) help her learn 
the ropes. In Afghanistan, she has 
to adjust quickly or risk getting in 
legal trouble in the Islamic nation. Abbott and Robbie explain and 
show the viewpoints of a local 
and a foreigner respectively, while 
helping her adjust to life and the 
customs around her. Films that 
take place in foreign countries 
with different customs sometimes 
romanticize the cultures or show 
them as “other, ” but the directors, 
Glenn Ficarra and John Requa, 
do a wonderful job of presenting 
the culture and avoid passing 
judgement. A great example of 
this is in a scene where Fey speaks 
to the women who want the U.S. 
Marines to stop rebuilding the well 
in their village. They lead Fey to a 
room where the women lift their 
burqas and speak freely. However, 
the audience only sees Fey’s face, 
and doesn’t hear the women speak. 
Sometimes the film is a story about 
a woman finding herself in a world she never imagined herself in, rather 
similar to “Eat, Pray, Love. ” Other 
times it is a war story. The adage 
goes “there is no place for women in 
war, ” but the film does more than just 
portray this older female journalist 
as out of her depth. It shows how war 
isn’t a place for anyone, regardless of 
their age, sex or occupation; “That’s 
why we drink, do drugs, and shag 
strangers in bathrooms, ” Robbie’s 
character explains.
Carlock tries too hard to make 
the movie funny; instead, the 
film is a rollercoaster of comedy, 
drama and poorly-timed jokes 
that make the tone inconsistent. 
While there are ways to inject 
humor into more serious scenes, 
like the levity incorporated into 
the therapy episodes of “Good Will 
Hunting, ” this film didn’t use it. 
However, Fey’s performance stands 
out through those scenes to keep 
the narrative interesting, especially 
when there are tonal issues.
As her character becomes increasingly addicted to the 
adrenaline of reporting in the 
region and normalized to the 
violence, she comes to understand 
how drugs and partying act 
as coping mechanism. Her 
progression from fish-out-of-
water to desensitized reporter is 
completely natural and believable. 
Even when the tone of the scenes 
is disjointed, her character shines 
through and recenters the narrative 
through her credible reactions.
The end of the movie is 
gripping, as she moves forward 
with her life and realizes that real 
change happens from within. With 
the compelling storyline and cast, 
“Whiskey Tango Foxtrot” is an 
engaging drama.
—  Rachel  NOvotny
Contributing Writer
whiskey  t ango  fo xtrotDirected by   Glenn Ficarra & John Requa
Starring   Tina Fey, Margot Robbie
Rated  R
Release Date  March 3
Tina Fey tries her hand at drama and delivers a 
masterful performance as a journalist in her latest film.PHOTO COURTESY OF THE HERALD EXTRA
FILM   REVIEWThe  Christian  
Lifestyle:  
An Advice 
Column 
How do I find my fashion 
style, or become more 
confident in it? — Anonymous
Look, as a side preface, the 
question pool that I answer from 
is about as deep as a petri dish 
full of air molecules. And while 
I like coordinating my questions 
with the Lifestyle editors and team 
by playing “pitch an idea for the 
advice column, ” with one hand on 
my copy of Almanac of the Dead, I 
promise that — despite my snarky, 
unapologetic, take-no-bullcaca 
style of writing — I’m willing to 
have discussions about whatever 
is lobbed my way. So, please, tell 
me the deets about that obnoxious 
potato vegetating on your kitchen 
counter, ask for an Astrology 
horoscope or how you should 
approach your love triangle-turned-
prism. Trust, not only will you 
have an answered question, but a 
complete load of midnight verbiage 
— the newest aesthetic.
Speaking of aesthetic: fashion. 
Listen, the whole locomotion that 
drove the slobbering glorification 
of a packaged white boy and his 
white vans — yes, Damn Daniel 
— on straight repeat was that he 
literally owned his ass and personal 
‘do. Ellen certainly has a talent for 
plucking out the immortalized pre-
pubescents, whether that’s Daniel 
Lara or Alex at Target. 
Both of these examples illustrate 
one simple phenomena: Your style 
can be anything in the world. 
“Expression” is a cliche word 
that will never sit at the cool kid’s 
table, but it is the foundation of 
fashion. If you’re wedged between 
two lousy bricks and in the process 
of identifying your fashion style, 
then holla at it qurl: What is your 
philosophy? Fashion should reflect 
who you are as a person and 
tell a narrative and a statement, 
obviously. Or, for other individuals, 
fashion is a summation of numbers: 
a neoliberal hairflip of solipsist 
smirking that they’re clearly more 
affluent. Perhaps fashion is a tool 
to deconstruct and decolonize 
— the body as a performance art 
installation. Or, simply, something 
to make sure you’re not cold. 
Moi-self, for example: My 
personal aesthetic style necessitates 
dark colors not only to reflect my 
self-proclaimed pensive nature and 
Scorpio Rising Sign, but also the 
racism I face as a person of color. 
Glasses also form a central part of 
my identity, which are the lens of 
my education that permit me to see 
the world in its true technicolor. I 
keep money in my shoe because, if 
anyone attempts to rob me and says 
“gimme your cash, ” I can kick them 
in the face and say it is justified.
Now, how does this relate 
to your own style? Obvi: Find 
your intellectual philosophy and 
externalize it. Use eccentric prints 
or neon colors to make a bold 
standout. Dress in a v-neck and 
jeans to show that you’re a simple 
person. Wear a hoodie to represent 
your school pride. Just make sure it 
represents you! Cliche ending, out! 
XOXO.
Need any advice on acclimating 
to UCSD? Struggling with a 
nasty case of the break-up? Need 
better ways to burn a tuna melt 
sandwich? Reach out to us at
lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org 
with your questions and your 
anonymity, if wanted, and we’ll 
answer as many as we can!
CHRISTIAN GELLA 
CGELLA@UCSD.EDUWEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MARCH 10, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
Explaining the reason for his 
sudden retirement, American 
director Steven Soderbergh confessed, 
“The tyranny of narrative is beginning 
to frustrate me, or at least narrative 
as we’re currently defining it. I’m 
convinced there’s a new grammar out 
there somewhere. But that could just 
be my form of theism. ” Soderbergh, 
with his uncanny clarity of mind, 
gives expression to the familiar 
disenchantment of cinema as a wasted 
medium. The history of film, to use 
Peter Greenaway’s expression, has 
been 105 years of illustrated text. Here 
enters, however, Terrence Malick, 
whose “Knight of Cups” confirms 
Soderbergh’s musings — there is a 
new grammar in town, or at least the 
seeds for its germination.
Malick’s break with conventional 
narrative began with “The Tree of 
Life” and was perfected in “To the 
Wonder. ” Both films place image, 
rather than word, at the center of 
the artform, subjecting any hint 
of narrative to the background. 
“Knight of Cups” affirms the 
elements of its antecessors and puts 
them into full display. Once again, 
the cinematography of Emmanuel 
Lubezki (“Birdman”) dazzles with 
its inventive play of lights and 
movement; Malick obsessively repeats 
the same takes over and over again from different angles and to different 
music. Space is dissected, decomposed 
and built anew: a deserted shore 
is, at times, a symbol of grief and 
at others a mirror of euphoria; a 
decadent nightclub becomes, from 
a different viewpoint, a promise of 
love. “Knight of Cups, ” following “To 
the Wonder, ” eliminates all dialogue 
in favor of voiceover; there’s barely a 
connection between action and sound 
— characters speak to each other 
through internal monologues, forming 
a kind of collective consciousness that 
is both seductive and unintelligible.
There is no overarching story, 
but there are certain elements that 
function as snapshots of narrative. A 
successful Hollywood screenwriter 
(Christian Bale), dissatisfied with life, 
searches for meaning as he wanders 
across Los Angeles. A myriad of 
beautiful women (Natalie Portman, 
Teresa Palmer, Isabel Lucas and 
others) come and go, as does his 
resentful father (Brian Dennehy), 
explosive brother (Wes Bentley) and 
sober ex-wife (Cate Blanchett). There 
is also no prefabricated meaning; you 
get what you put in. Malick demands 
an active — and reactive — role from 
his audience. The usual formula — 
the inert viewer passively consuming 
a ready-made product, designed to 
elicit emotion and leave you with a message to take home — is shattered 
from the opening scene. Nor are the 
actors reciting a fixed text written in 
advance, as most of the dialogue was 
improvised and shaped at the moment 
of shooting (Bale has said that he 
didn’t receive any script from Malick). 
Thus, meaning is created, and 
recreated, at every level of the process. 
From the conception in Malick’s 
head, through the actors’ spontaneous 
ruminations, to the viewer’s active 
engagement, “Knight of Cups” is, first 
and foremost, a collective exercise of 
interpretation.
Despite its monumental ambition, 
the film lacks the grace of its 
predecessors. We never sense the 
cosmic import of “The Tree of Life” or 
the poetic elegance that pervades “To 
the Wonder. ” Here one can never quite 
shake the feeling that we’re involved in 
an experiment. That’s a consequence 
of the film’s artistic decisions, and 
it’s hard to see how it could be 
otherwise. Malick was determined 
to blow up every element that makes 
for a coherent movie. He sought 
fragmentation, chaos, movement. 
In such territories, no film can be 
flawless, as not every experiment 
succeeds in its undertaking. But 
Malick could not care less — that’s his 
form of theism. 
— mario  a ttie
Senior Staff Writer
knight  of  cupsDirected by   Terrence Malick
Starring   Christian Bale, Cate Blanchett
Rated  R
Release Date  March 4
“Knight of Cups, ” Malick’s latest experiment, 
consolidates the existence of a new cinematic form.Even someone who has gotten 
a whiff of “Knight of Cups” 
over the last three or so odd years 
certainly has no idea what’s in store. 
There’s no insider information being 
tapped into, it’s just that the name 
Terrence Malick should automatically 
trigger something in every filmgoer’s 
hippocampus. Promising Hollywood 
hedonism to the max, coupled with 
the evocative visuals of Emmanuel 
Lubezki, this film will be divisive, 
functioning outside the realm of 
any normal, everyday convention. 
Since Malick seems to exist in his 
own realm, the only way to even 
comprehend him is to look at his 
work. This is not a claim that “Knight 
of Cups” will be anything like its 
predecessors, but a film such as “Tree 
of Life” does suggest a bit about the 
man behind the camera.
“Tree of Life” towers as his 
resplendent modern masterpiece 
stretching out over the cinematic 
landscape with monumental 
audacity. At its most basic element 
it depicts the creation of life, while 
in the same breath telling a humble 
tale of adolescence. Lubezki’s 
cinematography becomes the delicious 
fruit dangling in front of the viewer. The world and its majesty can hardly 
be comprehended with poetry or 
prose. Words seemingly pale in 
comparison to what images can tell us 
of all that exists constantly, continually 
in every stratosphere of creation. Life 
is, and will continue to be, a story of 
birth, growth and finally, ceasing to be.
Malick is at home with a 
meandering plot, because it 
gives way to something far more 
compelling. Here is a film about 
the essence of life as vast as Stanley 
Kubrick’s “2001” (1968) and as 
human as Richard Linklater’s 
“Boyhood” (2014). Call him 
enlightened, experimental, or even 
absolutely abysmal, but you cannot, 
for one moment, consider Terrence 
Malick derivative. Oftentimes it’s 
as if he’s grappling with topics 
on a completely alternate plane 
of understanding, pushing the 
cinematic language to greater 
heights. It means he does falter 
from time to time, but then again, 
that’s what happens when you write 
outside the lines.
—  Tynan   Y anaga
Senior Staff WriterRetrospective  Review:
“TREE OF LIFE” (2011)
visual  arts: “A FOX’S CRAFT”
PHOTO COURTESY OF THE HOLLYWOOD REPORTER
PHOTO COURTESY OF INFINITE CRESCENDOFILM   REVIEW
Runs Sundays at 10pm on HBO
Created by Terence Winter & George Mastras 
Terence Winter’s latest triumph proves itself as an outstanding period 
piece with a pulse on the turbulent music scene of 1970s New York.TV  REVIEW
A coke-fueled behemoth, “Vinyl” 
comes racing out of the gates 
with one of the best pilots in the 
history of television. Taking place 
in the music industry (and don’t 
be mistaken, it is an industry) by 
way of Richie Finestra’s (Bobby 
Cannavale) floundering fictional 
label, American Century, “Vinyl” 
focuses on the unapologetic 
superficiality in entertainment, 
stripping away the fabled magic 
of the creative process. Cold and 
calculated, there’s a perversion of 
how we see entertainment. It’s not 
art — it’s commerce.
The cynicism of “Vinyl” is a 
natural fit for Martin Scorsese 
(“Wolf of Wall Street”), who 
lends the show his distinct visual 
panache. There’s a certain irony in 
how he manages to make a $100 
million show look and feel so grimy. 
His expertise in all things New 
York and ‘70s bleeds through to 
his direction of a remarkable pilot 
that would feel more at home in the 
cinema. Scorsese “only” directed the 
two-hour-long pilot, but the show’s 
regular directors all do a great job at 
keeping up with the chaotic rhythm 
he set. Every episode is a flex of 
the show’s visual muscle, dotted 
with daydreams and flashbacks that 
evoke the contradictory binary of memory, both fleeting and constant.
Outfitted with an incredible 
ensemble cast, the acting exceeds 
the already lofty standards of 
prestige cable drama. A savage 
Bobby Cannavale anchors the 
show with a healthy wallop of 
seething anger and self-hatred. 
He was destined for the role of a 
shaggy, coked-out executive with 
a penchant for using karate as a 
negotiating tactic. The foil Olivia 
Wilde provides as his wife, Devon 
Finestra, is a career-high. She 
commands the screen with grace, 
selling her frustration as her life 
unravels in the face of financial and 
emotional letdowns. The sprawling 
cast provides a riveting mix of top-
tier talent, known and unknown. 
Characters like Jamie Vine (Juno 
Temple) and Lester Grimes (Ato 
Essandoh) are breakout roles for 
their respective actors, who stand 
their ground besides greats.
However, the show isn’t without 
its flaws and occasionally gets 
lost in its own ambitious vision. 
Indicators of the contemporary 
are unnecessary and stick out, a 
particularly egregious example 
being some shoehorned Watergate 
news footage. Episodes teeter 
at the length of an hour and 
feel overstuffed with a storyline too many. The focus wanes 
when “Vinyl” leaves behind the 
operations at American Century. In 
particular, its ambitious approach 
to the ensemble’s individual stories 
— a double-edged sword that 
shortchanges smaller characters at 
the expense of the main players. 
“Vinyl” should consider Finestra’s 
wise words and cut the fat because, 
among other issues, the lack 
of finesse in developing minor 
characters leaves behind caricatures: 
an overbearing Jewish wife, cold 
mothers and middle-aged men with 
penchants for swearing after every 
other word. 
These growing pains are to be 
expected for any premiere season. But 
with a braintrust of Terence Winter 
(“Boardwalk Empire”) and George 
Mastras (“Breaking Bad”) manning 
the series post-Scorsese, there’s more 
than enough reason to stick around. 
Like any great band, the show is able 
to blast past weaker aspects with its 
intoxicating energy. It’s imperfect, it’s 
raw, but it’s real — everything you 
want out of a demo.
Five episodes watched for the 
season review.
—   sam  velazquez
 A&E Editorial Assistant“A Fox’s Craft, ” a recent 
collaborative performance 
installation by Y uka Murakami 
and Gianna Zamora, provides 
an insightful tribute to the now-
demolished UCSD Crafts Center, a 
feature of the 56-year-old campus for 
40 years before its demolition in 2015. 
Many students are unaware of the 
presence of the former UCSD Crafts 
Center, a space where the student 
body, faculty and greater community 
could once engage in creative projects 
and take a variety of unique classes. 
Opened in 1972, the Crafts Center 
offered art-making classes such as 
pottery making and glassblowing, 
and became a “nucleus of campus 
creativity, ” according to the artist’s 
official statement. 
According to UCSD’s Crafts 
Center website, the Crafts Center 
was closed in 2012 due to a lack of 
funding. In Spring 2013, a fee increase 
referendum was proposed by A.S. 
Council as well as the Graduate 
Student Association to restore funding 
to the Crafts Center for operations 
and improvements, but failed to be 
approved by the student vote. In 
Spring 2015, upon the passage of a 
new financial model and referendum 
that did not include the Crafts Center 
program, the Crafts Center remained 
closed indefinitely. In September 
2015, by order of the UCSD Fire 
Marshal, the Crafts Center was torn 
down, leaving nothing but a pile of 
rocks in its wake.
“ A Fox’s Craft” comments on the 
Crafts Center’s vulnerability to these 
institutional decisions, speaking on “the paradox of movement” of 
institutional change, as stated in the 
artist’s statement. 
Featuring video and audio 
from the demolition of the Crafts 
Center, the installation highlights 
three moments in the Crafts 
Center’s timeline: functioning, being 
demolished and carrying on its legacy 
through students making the art for 
the exhibit. A video of the functional 
center, with close ups of its blown 
glass and ceramic work, is placed in 
sharp contrast to  the dirty images 
of destruction in the demolition 
video. In between the two videos is 
footage of students gathering rocks 
and painting them for the exhibit. 
Also, scattered around are piles of 
rocks taken from the Crafts Center 
site, painted gold and placed upon 
works of art by visual art and non-
visual arts students that illustrated the 
theme of movement, contributing to 
the exhibit’s theme of the impact of 
institutional dynamics. 
The space, created by the 
combination of these elements, has 
the effect of being in the demolition 
zone itself, allowing viewers to feel 
the essence of the Crafts Center 
and its role in the lives of students. 
Through its recreation of the 
Crafts Center demolition site and 
presentation of the craft center’s 
history, “ A Fox’s Craft” reflects on 
the reasons for and the effects of 
institutional change on the creative 
community here at UCSD.  
—  chandra  couzensStaff WriterDates Feb. 29 to March 4 
Location Andrew D. Kamil Gallery10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MARCH 10, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDS$
Gua rdian Classifieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifieds
BIKES
A Simple Bike - $10. Bike has been sitting 
on the patio for at least a year. Tires need 
air. Just never use it. Listing ID: 242398934 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Recumbent Bike Rans V-Rex - $777. This 
is an upgraded Rans V-Rex with 8x3 (24 
speed) gearing, Magura hydraulic brakes, 
Grip Shift shifters and a mirror. This bike is 
of the high performance Short Wheel base 
style and is quite fast, depending, of course, 
on the engine! Listing ID: 241261885 at ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tionOne Year Old Schwinn Bike - $100. Only 
rode three times. It is off road and street. 
Comes with helmet, carrying pouch and 
lock. Listing ID: 241261884 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
ELECTRONICS
Toshiba 19 inch T V and Monitor - $50. 
Television and monitor 19in. Has all types 
of hookups.  Will give you a free HDMI cord. 
Listing ID: 242399006 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Bose Tower - $850. Bose Tower. Six speak -
ers at the top, subwoofer at the bottom. 
Also has universal jacks for phone or iPod. 
Will throw in a mic. Listing ID: 242399002 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
32 GB iPad Mini 2 - $250. Only had it 
since September. Brand new and is in per -
fect condition. Come with iPad, charging 
cord and original box/materials. Listing ID: 
242398995 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
FURNITURE
Chest Dresser - $85. Real wood. Shabby 
chic. New paint and distressed. Listing ID: 
242399024 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Round Glass Top IKEA Coffee Table - $20. 
Small, round IKEA glass top coffee table. 
Brown-black. No assembly required. No 
scratches or marks. Listing ID: 241261955 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Great Leather Couch/Foldable Futon - $150. 
My brother and I are moving back to NJ. 
Couch is in terrific condition. Less than 
six months old. Comes in three foldable 
sections that you can arrange however 
you’d like. Super easy to move! Originally 
bought it for $200. Listing ID: 241863011 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
tyour vision,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel to 
promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies 
on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.ukLevel: 1234 Level: 1234
SUDOKU
Poster Printing 
Color CopIES
Print PDF Files
CAL COPYCourse Reader Printing 
Post Office • USPS • FedEx  
DHL International  
858-452-9949
www.calcopy.com(across RockBottom)
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
6+23 75,721 287),77(56
to.ucsd.edu
VOTE ON TRITONLINK.UCSD.EDUA.S. COUNCIL
ELECTIONS
2016-2017SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MARCH 10, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
Monday
March 14th
10pmthe Tritons and an upset victory, 
Pepperdine denied the opportunity 
and miraculously earned six of the 
last seven games to send it to a last 
and deciding fifth set. 
The final set was a tight one, as 
Pepperdine emerged victorious after 
leading for the majority of time. The 
Waves led 8–6 and then continued to 
do so at 12–9 which, moments later, 
led junior middle blocker Mitchell 
Penning to finish the match with one 
last kill. 
Colbert had 19 kills on the night 
to match his collegiate high, and Zhu 
had a career-best 11 kills, reaching 
the double-digit mark for the first 
time. Syftestad also joined in having 
a career night with 18 kills.
Match One vs UC Irvine
On Friday night, UCSD traveled 
north to take on UC Irvine as part 
of MPSF play and suffered a sad 
defeat in straight sets, 26–24, 25–15 
and 25–10.
The first set provided highly 
competitive games as there were 11 
tie scores and three lead changes. 
Following a 2–0 lead from the 
Tritons, the set would be all square 
at nine apiece. UCSD regained the 
lead at 15–12 and moments after, 
Syftestad and Zhu combined for a 
block. But once again, the Anteaters 
fought back and shared the lead at 
15. The set was to be won by the 
opponent who did not concede 
errors in crucial moments and, sure 
enough, at 24 apiece, a service error 
by UCSD followed by an ace gave 
UC Irvine the set. 
UCSD’s confidence faltered for 
the final two sets, and it consequently 
found itself incapable of competing 
at the same level that it did to start 
the match. UC Irvine fully controlled the second and third set and took 
advantage of the opportunity, as they 
used 5–0 and 7–0 runs to put both 
sets out of reach. 
Syftestad once more provided 
double-figures kills while freshman 
setter Ryan Blaich tallied up 23 
assists on the night to go along with a 
pair of block assists. 
“I was pleased with the start 
we got off to, ” UCSD Head Coach 
Kevin Ring told the UCSD Athletics 
Department. “Irvine made a late 
run, and unfortunately, we lost by 
two. After that, Irvine was able to 
pick up its game, and our game kind 
of dropped off. We just never quite 
found the same rhythm we had in 
that first set. ”
Match Two vs UC Irvine
On Saturday, UCSD hosted the 
14th-ranked UC Irvine volleyball 
team and looked to rewrite the script 
from the night prior. Indeed it did, 
to a certain extent — after falling 
behind by two sets and having a 
17–11 deficit in the third set, the 
Tritons fought back and went on to 
force a fifth set and almost completed 
an impressive comeback. The MPSF 
match ended with the scores 25–18, 
25–17, 31–33, 21–25 and 15–13.
Looking low of confidence, the 
Tritons found themselves down 
17–11 in the third set, but seemingly 
after a timeout was called, the team 
came out with renewed energy and 
earned the following five points to 
cut down the lead to one. Near the 
end of the set, UCSD ultimately 
took a 24–22 advantage thanks to 
a UC Irvine error and Zhu ace. 
Miraculously, though, the Anteaters 
saved a total of six set points to keep 
the set alive and even had a chance to 
put the match away with a set point 
of their own at 29–28. The set point 
was not taken with precision, and the match was at 29–29 draw. UCSD 
blew two more opportunities to put 
the set away but eventually did finish 
off the set with a Colbert kill and a 
Syftestad ace. 
Evidently, the momentum carried 
into the fourth set as UCSD looked 
comfortable taking a 16–9 lead 
midway through the set. UC Irvine 
did not fall away, however, as it 
answered back with eight of the next 
nine points to tie it up at 17–17. The 
Tritons did make up for the blown 
lead by earning four of the next five 
points to continue the comeback and 
fight it out in the fifth and final set. 
UC Irvine came out strong, 
immediately taking a 5–1 lead 
and then preserving it with a 10–7 
advantage, prompting a UCSD 
timeout. A kill apiece from Colbert 
and senior outside hitter Kirill 
Rudenko kept the Tritons within 
striking distance, 11–10 and 13–12. 
After a kill from the Anteaters, and 
the score at 14–12, two match points 
were seemingly one too many for the 
Tritons to save. Following a Rudenko 
and Zhu combined block to save the 
first match point, the second was put 
away to end the match. 
Colbert contributed with his 
fourth double-double, 10 kills and 10 
digs. Meanwhile, Blaich had his first 
collegiate double-double with a solid 
49-assist and 10-dig performance. 
Also providing a solid contribution 
was Rudenko, who, now off the 
bench, had 12 kills, three blocks, and 
three digs. 
UCSD will face Concordia in a 
non-conference match, looking to 
end on a strong note to end on as the 
season reaches its latter stages. The 
match is on Thursday night, March 
10 at 7 p.m.
Readers can contact
daniel hernandez   dah043@ucsd.edu    Readers can contact
samantha glantz   sglantz@ucsd.edu    Will Try to Get Back to Winning Ways Against Concordia
▶ M.VOLLEYBLL,  from page 12
scoring once in the bottom of the sixth 
and twice more in the bottom of the 
seventh as Shirley hit a bases-clearing 
single down the right field line. Cal 
State Los Angeles’ defeat evened the 
series and earned the Tritons their 
15th victory of the season. 
Game Three 
The Tritons took a tough loss 
against Cal State Los Angeles, 9–1, 
after Cal State Los Angeles scored 
all nine of its runs in the eighth 
inning of the ballgame to get the 
win. Freshman left-handed pitcher 
Preston Mott threw the first seven 
innings of the game, holding the 
Eagles to only one run on five hits. 
UCSD had a season-low four hits 
on the day as the Tritons scored 
their only run of game on junior 
outfielder Christian Leung’s sacrifice 
fly in the sixth inning, which 
brought Larsen home from third. 
Although the Tritons scored first, 
they failed to execute in clutch 
moments as they left eight runners 
on base. The Eagles had a total of six 
hits in their big eighth inning and 
were able to take advantage of three 
errors by the Tritons’ defense and 
five walks issued by five different 
Triton pitchers during the inning. 
Freshman right-handed pitcher 
Erik Amundson was credited with 
the loss and junior Cal State Los 
Angeles  pitcher Justin Davis earned 
the win. 
“We might get beat, but we’re 
gonna put up a fight, ” UCSD Head 
Coach Eric Newman told UCSD 
Athletics heading into the final 
game of the series.
Game Four
The Tritons won the final game 
of the series, 6–5, to earn the split 
against Cal State Los Angeles. UCSD had a big first inning of its 
own, scoring five runs. Sanchez 
began the inning with a five-pitch 
walk, and then the trouble started 
for the Golden Eagles. Three big 
hits by the Tritons along with 
three errors made by Cal State Los 
Angeles in the first inning allowed 
the Tritons to take an early lead; 
sophomore infielder Tyler Plantier 
had a two-run double to get things 
started. Mori and sophomore 
catcher Steven Coe had the other 
two hits in the first inning, as they 
both had base hits to center field. 
The Tritons’ sixth and final run 
came in the third inning as Coe 
hit a basehit to right field, allowing 
Shirley to score easily from second 
base after he hit his third double 
of the season. The Golden Eagles 
began their comeback in the bottom 
of the third inning; they scored 
three runs off the Tritons’ starting 
pitcher, freshman left-handed 
pitcher Brett Bell. They scored one 
more in the bottom of the sixth 
inning off of senior left-handed 
and relief pitcher Eric Moerson, 
making the score 6–4 as the Tritons 
headed into the final inning of the 
ball game. UCSD failed to score in 
its final plate appearance, allowing 
the home team an opportunity to 
make a comeback. Cal State Los 
Angeles then scored its fifth run of 
the ballgame on a throwing error by 
Hearn, but freshman right-handed 
pitcher Kyle Mora got the Tritons 
out of the inning for the win. 
The Tritons look ahead to playing 
another split-venue four-game series 
against CCAA South opponent Cal 
State Dominguez Hills beginning on 
Thursday, March 10. The game is set 
for 6 p.m. in Triton Ballpark.Look Forward to Cal State Dominguez Hills
▶ BASEBALL,  from page 12The UCSD baseball team 
moved up in the NCAA Division-II 
Rankings to No. 5 in the country this 
past week, but dropped three spots 
to No. 8 after it split the series with 
Cal State Los Angeles. The Tritons 
currently hold a 16–4 overall record 
and are 5–2 in California Collegiate 
Athletic Association play. 
Game One
Last Thursday night, Cal State Los 
Angeles took down the Tritons, 3–2, 
in game one of the four-game series 
during an 11-inning showdown 
between the two top CCAA South 
teams. Both teams now hold a 4–1 
record in conference play, as Cal 
State Los Angeles handed the top-
ranked Tritons their first conference 
loss of the season. 
The game was scoreless until 
the top of the fifth, as the Tritons 
took the lead, 1–0; senior outfielder 
Gradeigh Sanchez brought the first 
run of the game home with a bases-
loaded sacrifice fly in deep right field, 
easily scoring on junior infielder 
Vince Mori from third.
Cal State Los Angeles responded 
in the bottom of the fifth as they 
matched the Tritons with one run, 
leading off the inning with a base 
hit to left. After two quick outs, they 
managed to scrape together another 
hit on a 0–2 count. With runners on 
second and third, Triton freshman 
starting pitcher, Kyle Lucke balked, 
giving the Eagles an easy run and 
tying up the ballgame. The game remained tied at 1–1 
through nine full innings, resulting 
in extra innings. Finally, at the 
top of the 11th, the Tritons rallied 
to push a run across and junior 
outfielder Jack Larsen reached base 
due to a fielding error by the left 
fielder and advanced to third, as the 
Eagles made two more errors on the 
play. Larsen then scored on a passed 
ball, giving the Tritons a 2–1 lead. 
But the Tritons couldn’t manage to 
score again in the inning. 
The Eagles began the bottom of 
the 11th with a leadoff walk. After 
their next batter flew out to center, 
they managed to squeeze a base 
hit through the left side, putting 
runners on first and second with 
only one out. Triton freshman relief 
pitcher, Cameron Kurz, struck out 
the next batter and, with only one 
out standing between the Tritons 
and their eighth-straight victory, the 
Eagles hit a two-out, bases clearing 
double for the win. The Golden 
Eagles defeated the Tritons 3–2 in 
walkoff fashion. 
Five Triton pitchers combined for 
ten walks on the night, but Jack Rupe 
was credited with the loss, giving up 
two runs in the bottom of the 11th. 
Eagles junior pitcher Ralph Ramirez, 
earned the win as he went eight 
complete innings, giving up only one 
run to the powerful Triton offense.
Game Two
The Tritons evened the series 
with Cal State Los Angeles as 
they won 7–3 at Triton Ballpark. 
UCSD’s senior starting pitcher Alon 
Leichman earned the win throwing 
6.0 complete innings as he allowed three runs, two of those runs being 
earned on eight hits. Sanchez and 
junior outfielder Brandon Shirley 
had the clutch hits for the Tritons 
both resulting in two runs each. 
Cal State Los Angeles scored 
first in the top of the second during 
a two-out rally that consisted of 
three consecutive hits by the Golden 
Eagles; Leichman managed to get out 
the damage as he only allowed one 
run to score. The Tritons responded 
immediately as Mori led off the 
bottom of the second with a base hit 
up the middle. Mori then advanced 
to third after an error by the left 
fielder as he dropped a fly ball hit by 
freshman first-baseman Tyler Durna. 
Junior infielder J.D. Hearn followed 
Durna with a sacrifice fly to right 
field, scoring Mori from third to tie 
the game.
Mori came up clutch in the bottom 
of the third inning for the Tritons 
after the Eagles pitched around 
sophomore first-baseman Justin Flatt 
to load the bases with one out. Mori 
then hit a sacrifice fly to center field, 
bringing in junior infielder Tyler 
Howsley from third base. 
The Eagles strung together a 
couple of hits resulting in a run 
during the top of the fourth inning. 
UCSD quickly responded as 
Sanchez hit a bases clearing triple, 
scoring two more runs for the 
Tritons and making the score 4–2. 
The Eagles scored once more 
in the top of the sixth, marking the 
end of Leichman’s outing. The Tritons 
continued to manufacture runs, The UCSD women’s water polo squad prevailed 
with excellence in the Claremont Convergence, as 
it was able to win all four of its matches, with a pair 
being held on Friday March 4, and a pair held on 
Saturday, March 5. 
The Claremont Convergence, which was 
hosted by Claremont-Mudd-Scripps and 
Pomona-Pitzer, started off with the Tritons being 
matched up against La Verne and Whittier. 
Going into the weekend, the Tritons were 
ranked 12th and emerged victorious on Friday 
to improve to 10–6. They were able to defeat La 
Verne 15–10, and they smashed Whittier with a 
final 14–5 count. 
Game one on Friday against La Verne wasn’t all 
too difficult for the Tritons, as they seized a three-
score lead at the end of the first quarter, despite the 
Leopards scoring the first goal of the game. The 
Tritons only built up their lead, and though the 
Leopards tried, they couldn’t reach the Tritons and 
weren’t able to match the offensive pressure that the 
Tritons maintained throughout the game. 
Senior attacker Laurel Kistler and junior attacker 
Rachel Emami were both able to complete hat tricks 
before the game ended, contributing three goals a 
piece. Senior attacker Julia Kirkland and freshman 
center Chanel Schilling were both also able to bring 
in two goals apiece to contribute to the effort. The 
Tritons ended the fourth quarter with a comfortable 
five-point lead, ending the match 15–10.
Whittier was an even easier contest for the 
Tritons later that day. Initially it seemed as if the 
match would be a competitive one, since the first 
quarter ended with the Tritons only up two points 
with a count of 4–2. Kistler was back at it with her 
scoring ways, as she was able to sink two goals 
by herself in the first quarter alone. Junior center 
Lauren Boyer was able to contribute a goal in the 
first quarter. 
The rest of the match was a different story, 
however, as the Tritons were able to outscore Whittier 10–3 in the next three quarters to win by a 
landslide 14–5. Kistler displayed more of her talents 
as she scored three more goals, ending the night 
with five goals contributed in that match alone. 
With single-point conversions by other teammates, 
Kistler and the Tritons were able to dominate the 
competition. Senior goalkeeper Courtney Miller 
also had a great night, as she brought in 14 saves 
that match. 
The Tritons concluded the Claremont 
Convergence with two more wins against 
Claremont-Mudd-Scripps and Pomona-Pitzer the 
following Saturday, both games won with high 
levels of dominance from the Tritons.
The Tritons brought their rendition of the 
Denver Broncos’ defense from Super Bowl 50, 
as they completely shut down the Claremont-
Mudd-Scripps until only five minutes remained 
in the fourth quarter, ending the game with 
a matched stellar offense, resulting in a final 
count of 15–1. The first half ended 4–0 in favor 
of the Tritons. After this, the rest was history as 
the Tritons kept scoring, all the while playing 
excellent defense. 
Sophomore utility Kayla Fedler and freshman 
attacker Riley Heiduk were both able to complete 
their own respective hat tricks during the 
match. Fedler finished the game with four goals. 
Freshman attacker Shelby Stender and sophomore two-meter defender Alexis Wieseler were able to 
put through two goals apiece. 
The Tritons finished their final game of the 
Claremont Convergence with another dominant 
victory of 12–4 over Pomona-Pitzer. This final 
match played out similarly to the last match from 
Friday against Claremont-Mudd-Scripps, as the 
first quarter seemed like it might be a competitive 
game but eventually turned into a landslide victory 
for the Tritons. The first quarter ended with the 
Tritons leading the Sagehens 3–2, then outscoring 
them 9–2 for the next three quarters of the game, 
ultimately ending as the 9–2 victors. 
Kistler and Boyle were both able to achieve 
a hat-trick again during the final match. They 
had a solid supporting cast from Wieseler and 
Fedler scoring two goals apiece, with Schilling 
and junior utility Hanna Schneider scoring the 
final two goals. 
“We had a great team effort in both games, ” 
Head Coach Brad Kreutzkamp told the UCSD 
Athletics Department. “We had a great day. Every 
player on the team contributed to the wins. ” 
The Tritons will host Iona at RIMAC Arena 
this Thursday at 6 p.m. and will look to make a 
dominant appearance at the Aztec Invitational 
later this weekend. SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
MARCUS THUILLIER
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MARCH 10, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
The UCSD volleyball team 
competed in three matches this past 
week and went 0–3, once against 
10th-ranked Pepperdine University 
and a home-and-home series 
against 14th-ranked UC Irvine. 
Both provided opportunities for the 
Tritons to earn an upset, but they 
unfortunately fell short on a couple 
occasions. UCSD is now 4–17 overall. 
Match vs Pepperdine 
Last Wednesday night, UCSD 
came ever so close to pulling up an 
upset against 10th-ranked Pepperdine 
University, but after taking a two-set 
advantage, the tide turned and the 
match went to five sets. The Tritons 
were defeated in the Mountain Pacific 
Sports Federation volleyball match 
with the scores going 21–25, 21–25, 
25–16, 25–22 and 15–12.
The start for the Tritons was 
promising as they took the first two 
sets and looked to be on their way to 
earning their first MPSF victory of 
the season but, unfortunately, it was 
not to be. 
The first set was back and 
forth, and neither team took full 
control of the match. After an 
early 2–1 Pepperdine lead, redshirt 
sophomore middle blocker Bryan 
Zhu helped the Tritons settle 
the score at 9–9 with an ace and, 
moments later, an assist would give 
UCSD a 13–12 lead. Zhu provided 
an offensive spark throughout and 
maintained the lead, 15–13, after 
two consecutive kills. Nearing the end of the set, Pepperdine looked 
to regain the lead as UCSD held the 
advantage 22–21, but a fundamental 
service error, followed by kills from 
redshirt sophomore outside hitter 
Calvin Manchenko and redshirt 
freshman opposite Luke McDonald, 
finished the game off.
This time around, in the second 
set, UCSD took an early lead 3–0 
behind two aces by junior outside 
hitter Ian Colbert and a kill from the 
part of sophomore middle blocker 
and outside hitter Alec Flowers. As 
the game developed, the Tritons 
continually maintained a relatively 
safe lead, while Pepperdine constantly 
inched its way closer but ultimately 
could not fully do so. Then, with the 
Tritons leading 23–20, Colbert got 
the kill and sophomore opposite and 
setter Tanner Syftestad finished the 
set off. 
After falling behind by two sets, 
Pepperdine climbed back into the 
match as it outplayed UCSD in the 
third and led 16–10 with half the set 
gone. The Tritons had no answers 
and would have to wait another 
set to attempt the upset after 
Pepperdine used a 4–0 run to end 
the game in third. 
UCSD responded quite brilliantly 
in the fourth set, as it took it straight 
to Pepperdine and held advantages 
for the majority of time. At midway, 
the Tritons led 14–9 and continued 
that into the latter stages of the 
set, with a 21–19 lead. With only a 
mere four-point margin between 
week  in
summar y
WOMEN'S
W A TER  POLO
BASEBALLUCSD
UCSD
UCSDClaremont Mudd-Sripps
Pomona-Pitzer
Cal State LA15 – 1
12 – 4
6 – 5
MEN'S
VOLLEYBALL
25 25 31 21 1518 17 33 25 13
Concordia IrvineUCSD
BASEBALL M.VOLLEYBALL
Tritons Split Four Games vs CSULA Lose All Three Matches  
UCSD give up two runs in the bottom of the 11th, lose 3–2 in a close showdown. Tritons just cannot upset Pepperdine and UC Irvine. 
BY   sa m a n t h a   g l a n t z
staff writerBY  d a n i e l  h e r n a n d e z
staff writergurkira t singh   gsingh@ucsd.edu
Tritons Are PerfectWritten by Gurkirat Singh // Senior Staff Writer
Photo by Megan Lee // Associate Photo Editor  
See M. VOLLEYBALL , page 11 See BASEBALL , page 113/10
3/10
3/10
3/10
3/11Softballl
Baseball
W. Water Polo
M.Volleyball
SoftballVS Sonoma State
VS Cal State Dominguez Hills
VS Iona
AT Concordia 
VS Sonoma StateUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMES