VOLUME 49, ISSUE 52   THURSDA Y , MA Y 5, 2016  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
NOT SO 
ANGRY BIRDS
THE UCSD GUARDIAN GOT TO 
PEEK BEHIND THE SCENES 
OF SONY PICTURES’ MAY 20 
RELEASE, “THE ANGRY BIRDS 
MOVIE,” IN A HUMOROUS 
DIALOGUE WITH MAYA 
RUDOLPH AND JOSH GAD.
HOMELESS NESS   IN   SD
SOFTBALLFocus  on   Hiding,  Not  Helping
UNDERDOG TRITONS WIN  REGIONALSOpinion,  P age   4
sPORTS,  P age  12
THURSDAY
H 67 L 55FRIDAY
H 66 L 54
SATURDAY
H 66 L 54SUNDAY
H 67 L 54
FORECAST
VERBATIM
There is no conclusive 
study linking terrorism 
with Islam. There are, 
however, extensive studies 
on the disproportionate 
representation of terrorism 
in the media. If you don’t 
believe me, let’s look at 
the data.”
                 - Ayat Amin         
Skewed Tales of Terrorism
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
DISEASE OF THE WEEK  ...2
PALESTINE-ISRAEL  ......... 4
CHRISTIAN LIFESTYLE  .....8
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU  ..10
W. WATERPOLO  ............. 11“WEEKEND,  P AGE  6
ILLUSTRATION BY JENNA MCCLOSKEY / UCSD GUARDIAN
UC San Diego’s Vice Chancellor 
of Student Affairs Juan Gonzalez 
and Vice Chancellor of Equity, 
Diversity and Inclusion Becky Petitt 
released a joint statement via email 
last Friday reaffirming their defense 
of everyone’s right to free speech, 
including hate speech. 
“‘Hate speech’ by its nature is 
meant to offend, ” they stated in the 
email. “However, it is still protected 
by the First Amendment. This is why 
we encourage and promote civility 
and respect in every exchange. We 
strongly urge all UC San Diego 
students, faculty and staff to be 
guided by respect as we debate the 
issues of our complex world. ”The vice chancellors also 
explained in the email, which was 
sent to all UCSD students with the 
subject line “ An important message 
about civility at UC San Diego, ” why 
the First Amendment rights are 
critical to the UCSD community.
“Freedom of speech and 
expression are essential aspects 
of public universities as they lend 
themselves to intellectual inquiry 
and debate, and help members of 
our community define their own 
points of view, ” the email stated. 
“Diverse points of view on social 
and political concerns often intensify 
debate and can develop into a more 
fervent form of give and take, with 
opposing points of view, positions 
and ideologies that can offend or 
create feelings of discomfort. ”The administrators also provided 
a link to UCSD’s guidelines and 
policies regarding freedom of 
expression. In addition, they listed 
a number of resources available to 
students, including Counseling and 
Psychological Services, campus police 
and UCSD’s ReportBias website 
where students can report “bias 
incidents” to the Office for Prevention 
of Harassment and Discrimination.
The email follows a month in 
which anti-immigrant statements 
were found written in chalk around 
campus, and students protested the 
statements at the second Million 
Student March and the UCSD 
#ChalkBack event.Students Protest 
Anti-Muslim 
Flyers Found 
On-CampusSDSU
The posters listed the names 
of Students for Justice in 
Palestine members and linked 
them to terrorist groups.
BY   b e c ca   c h o n g
staff writer
Last Wednesday, several student 
activist groups protested San Diego 
State President Elliot Hirshman’s 
response to posters displaying anti-
Muslim sentiments posted around 
the school’s campus. Student leaders 
specifically asked Hirshman for 
an apology regarding an email that, 
according to them, did not sufficiently 
address the posters, which identified 
specific SDSU students by name as 
Palestinian terrorists who perpetuate 
anti-Semitism. 
Hirshman’s initial email response 
to the posters recognized the right 
to freedom of speech and the 
accountability that comes with taking 
political positions. Students were 
unsatisfied with this and took the 
opportunity to surround Hirshman 
in a police cruiser as he was leaving 
an event. 
They demanded an apology for the 
inadequate administrative response, 
to which Hirshman offered a formal 
meeting with those students who were 
named on the posters to discuss their 
concerns about the original email’s lack 
of action. 
This past Monday, SDSU students 
and members of the Students for 
Justice in Palestine Osama Alkhawaja 
and Rachel Beck met with Hirshman 
in person to discuss the incident. Beck 
recalled the events of the meeting, 
emphasizing how Hirschman likened 
SJP’s goals to that of a terrorist group’s.
“The president was saying 
[we appeared to be] ‘allied’ [with 
terrorists], because the fliers say that 
we’re allied with terrorist groups, ” 
Beck told the UCSD Guardian. “He 
defines allied as ‘a common cause 
or goal’ and he said that terrorists 
have a common cause or goal with us 
and that goal is [Boycott, Divest and 
Sanction] … because they support 
BDS, and because [we] support BDS, 
I guess that’s how we’re allied. ”
An email was sent out to students 
yesterday regarding the discussion that 
occurred as a joint statement from 
both university representatives as 
well as student leaders, explaining the 
actions that will be taken. 
“Creating the appropriate balance 
between freedom of expression and 
protecting members of our community 
from harassment, as in the current 
case where students were named 
individually on a flyer posted on our 
campus, poses a significant challenge, ” 
the statement read. “The parties have 
agreed that in collaboration with A.S. 
and under the aegis of the University 
Senate, they will undertake a review Audrey’s Cafe Holds Grand 
Opening at Geisel Library
Audrey’s Café hosted its grand opening on May 
3. The cafe, located in the East Wing of the 
library’s second floor, is part of the Geisel Library 
Revitalization Initiative, a campaign set to renovate and 
enhance the interior public spaces of the library for 
students and staff. 
According to the library’s website, Audrey’s Cafe will 
be open from 7:30 a.m. to 10 p.m. between Monday and 
Thursday, 7:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Friday, 10:30 a.m. to 5 
p.m. on Saturday and 10:30 a.m. to 8 p.m. on Sunday. 
For finals week, the cafe will stay open until midnight 
between Sunday and Thursday.
University Librarian Brian E. C. Schottlaender 
explained to the UCSD Guardian how the addition of 
Audrey’s Cafe reflects efforts to expand Geisel Library 
services to meet the growing needs of students and staff. 
“Twenty years ago, students visited the library 
primarily to study, ” Schottlaender said. “Now, there are 
an increasing number of activities that might draw a 
student to the library, [such as] working on a project in 
the Digital Media Lab, or attending a class taught by one of our librarians ... Now, you will be able to take a coffee 
break at Audrey’s without leaving the building. ”
Audrey’s Cafe manager Sabrina Creen disclosed to the 
Guardian what kinds of foods and drinks the cafe will sell, as 
well as what environment they are aiming to create.
“Primarily delicious coffee, though we also have a 
wonderful assortment of pastries, ” Creen said. “We have 
bottled drinks, salads and sandwiches. [I believe] that 
Audrey’s provides a really friendly atmosphere where 
people can come to relax and get away from it all. ”
UCSD Sports Facilities, which also manages the Peet’s 
Coffee & Tea near RIMAC, will manage Audrey’s Café. 
Director of Sports Facilities Don Chadwick described 
to the Guardian that the Sport Facilities’ will oversee the 
daily operations of Audrey’s Cafe.
“Sports Facilities will be directly managing the day-
to-day operations of the Café, ” Chadwick said. “The 
Café manager and student staff are a part of the Sports 
Facilities concessions team. Our cafe manager will also 
oversee the ordering of products, the supervision of the 
staff, and the maintenance of the various pieces of food B y  mario   espinoza    staff writerCAMPUS
Administrators Reaffirm Legality of Hate Speech
Two vice chancellors sent an email encouraging all UCSD students to stay “civil” during debates.See AUDREY’S , page 3
UCSD
See SDSU , page 3BY   j a c ky  t o
news editorPhoto by Kenji Bennett / UCSD Guardian
JACKY TO   J6TO@ucsd.edu2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 5, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
TRIUMPHANT #6 By Alex Liang
DO YOU TWEET? WE DO!
@UCSDGua rdianThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. Maria called Jose a cat. Olga is jealous of that. 
Olga can’t handle Jose being in another relationship. Olga 
likes Jose’s feet in her face.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Marketing Co-Directors
Peter McInnis, Haley Asturias
Training and Development Manager
Cedric Hyon
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Vincent Pham
Tina Butoiu
Jacky To
Josh Lefler
Quinn Pieper
Marcus Thuillier
Dev Jain
Allison Kubo
Oliver Kelton
Karly Nisson
Sam Velaquez
Brittney Lu
Olga Golubkova
Megan Lee
Christian Duarte
Joselynn Ordaz
Kenji Bennett
Ayat Amin
Christina Carlson
Sophia Huang
Jennifer Grundman
Sage Schubert ChristianEditor-in-Chief
Managing Editor
News Editor
 
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editors
Features Editor
Associate Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Multimedia Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editors
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Quinn Pieper, Jacky To
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim, Alicia Ho, Lisa Chik
Editorial Assistants
Naftali Burakovsky, Nathaniel Walker, Lisa Chik,
Maria SebasDisease of the Week: Chagas Disease
By Karly Nisson // Staff Writer // knisson@ucsd.edu
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGSee MoreInternational Documentary Film Series  May 9, 7pm Landmark Hillcrest Cinemas  
Benefitting the International Rescue Committee in San Diego  
Students: $10 General: $15  
This film represents the views of the filmmaker and does not represent formal positions of the International Rescue Committee . Seven miles from war, 85,000 Syrians struggle to restart their lives 
inside Jordan’s Za’atari refugee camp. Guest Speaker: Jenny Beck-
er is the Women’s Protection and Empowerment Coordinator for the 
International Rescue Committee’s Emergency Response Team.  
Purchase tickets at Rescue.org/Films or at the door  
REGISTER ONLINE  AT
AS.UCS D.EDU/ SAFERID ESREGISTRATION
FOR this quarter
IS NOW OPEN!
A.S. Safe Rides all ows 
registe red unde rgraduate 
students to get 3 FREE rid es 
per quarter. 
Students must r egister at 
least 2 4 hours prior t o their 
first ri de. Contact A.s. safe rides: (619) 564 - 799 8The U.S. Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention estimates 
that eight million people are 
currently infected with Chagas 
Disease. The disease, which most 
prominently occurs in Latin 
America, has no cure or vaccine; 
efforts to treat the disease have 
been confined to symptomatic and 
non-FDA approved antiparasitic 
treatments. However, scientists at 
Skaggs School of Pharmacy and 
Pharmaceutical Sciences partnered 
with researchers at Johnson & 
Johnson to search for drugs capable 
of fighting the parasitic infection.
Because there are few resources 
devoted to the research, prevention 
and treatment of the illness, the 
CDC has categorized it as one of 17 
neglected tropical diseases. These 
NTDs primarily affect impoverished 
populations in tropical regions who 
have limited access to clean water, 
namely those in low to middle 
income regions of Asia, Africa and 
the Americas. They’ve infected over 
1.6 billion people, 500,000 of whom 
die each year with many others 
suffering from chronic disabilities and experiencing severe pain. 
Chagas Disease is most commonly 
transmitted by an insect vector only 
found in rural areas of the Americas, 
but its distribution is not limited to 
Latin America. 
The triatomine bug — better 
known as the “kissing bug” because 
of its tendency to bite lips — carries 
the parasite responsible for Chagas 
Disease, Trypanosoma cruzi. Once 
kissing bugs are done “kissing,” 
they defacate on the person; when 
this person scratches the irritated 
bite, they rub feces over mucous 
membranes or into the open wound, 
allowing the parasite to enter 
their body. In the daytime, these 
nocturnal insects reside in crevices 
of houses typically made of mud, 
straw and adobe; they emerge only 
at night to “kiss” their unconscious 
victims. Aside from exposure to 
the fecal matter of triatomine bugs, 
which is the primary means of 
transmission, people can become 
infected through blood transfusion 
or organ transplantation. They 
cannot contract the disease, 
however, through casual contact with an infected individual as they 
would the cold or flu.
While the majority of those 
infected with Chagas Disease 
don’t show symptoms, the sickness 
can become life-threatening if 
untreated. The infection consists of 
two phases: acute and chronic. The 
acute stage is typically symptom-
free and occurs in the first few 
weeks or months of the disease; if 
symptoms are shown, they’re usually 
indistinguishable from those of the 
flu with the exception of Romana’s 
sign. Romana’s sign is the swelling 
of the eye closest to the bite or 
deposition of fecal matter; like other 
acute symptoms, it typically goes 
away within a few weeks or months. 
During the chronic stage, the disease 
remains silent for decades but can 
manifest itself in the form of cardiac 
or intestinal complications in 30% 
of those infected; this could mean 
an enlarged heart or esophagus, 
heart failure, arrhythmia, or a 
bloated stomach. 
While the disease is only 
vectorborne in Latin America, 
mass emigration from these rural, infected areas to other parts of 
the world is helping to expand its 
geographical distribution. Already, 
the kissing bug has been reported 
in Southern U.S. states, including 
California. Chances of contracting 
the illness from insects in the U.S., 
however, are low; just because you 
are bitten by a kissing bug does not 
mean you will become infected. 
Consequently, efforts by 
scientists at UCSD and Johnson 
& Johnson will primarily focus 
on finding treatments to curb the 
Latin American endemic. The 
team endeavor, initiated on Jan. 
7, will especially benefit those in 
poor, tropical regions and will give 
attention to an infection otherwise 
neglected. With funding and access 
to a screening library of compounds 
provided by Janssen Research 
and Dev. LLC, the Skaggs School 
of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical 
Sciences will be able to use their new 
robotic drug screening facility to 
screen thousands of compounds for 
their ability to combat the parasite 
and identify medicines that could 
help fight the widespread sickness. NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 5, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
Pepperdine is committed to the highest standards of 
academic excellence and Christian values.
To start your transformation, get in touch today.  
310.568.5600 or 866.503.5467  
gsep-recruitment@pepperdine.edu • gsep.pepperdine.eduimpact  
 sara’s    future .
Transform the lives of  
children with a Master of Arts 
in Teaching (with preliminary 
credential) from Pepperdine.
University to Turn Library’s Eighth Floor into Special Study Lounge
Beck: SDSU President Disregards Concerns of  Muslim Studentsservice equipment. ”
Audrey Geisel, whom the cafe 
is named after, made a $3 million 
donation in July 2015 which helped 
set the groundwork for construction 
of the cafe, as well as future 
enhancements scheduled for the next 
several years. 
UCSD’s Director of Development 
Julie Sully told the Guardian about 
how the Geisel Library Revitalization 
Initiative will help improve other 
parts of the library. 
“In addition to [Audrey’s] Café, 
this major renovation will include an impressive lobby entrance, a new 
Research Commons, a significant 
upgrade to the existing Learning 
Commons, and the implementation 
of new technologies,” Sully told 
the Guardian. “The fundraising 
initiative will also support a 
significant transformation of the 
active learning first floor that 
includes a cutting-edge Media 
& Digital Scholarship Lab. The 
initiative also includes plans to 
renovate the eighth floor of Geisel 
Library; we envision this remarkable 
floor as an enhanced study lounge 
that can also be used for special 
events and cultural activities. ”Creen hopes Audrey’s Café will 
help morale at Geisel Library by 
providing a space within the library 
to relax.
“[Audrey’s] creates a warm and 
welcoming atmosphere where if 
people can’t leave to go home, they 
can come here, ” Creen said. “It gives 
them a chance to reboot, revitalize, 
get a great cup of coffee at a friendly 
price, and just have a wonderful 
experience. [Audrey’s] gives them 
that center and reset that they need 
to continue being successful. ”
of university policies to ensure we are 
balancing freedom of expression and 
protection from harassment. ”
Beck expressed frustration with 
the administration’s unsupportive 
response toward the severity of 
the situation, contrasting her own 
experience with that of her friends. 
“For me, my biggest concern is just 
the fact that when I Google my name, 
the first thing that immediately comes 
up are [things] that are calling me a 
terrorist ... If a prospective employer 
looks me up [and sees these websites], 
that’s my biggest concern, ” Beck told 
the UCSD Guardian. “Most of the 
students are either Arab, Muslim or 
both, and a lot of them have been 
scared, whereas I’m white, European, 
not affiliated with any religion, so I 
don’t fit the common racist perception 
of what a terrorist looks like. I’m not 
[personally] very scared, but I’m scared 
for them — it makes me mad that the 
president doesn’t understand this very real fear that students have as a Muslim 
student on campus. ” 
The posters were created by the 
David Horwitz Center for Freedom 
whose mission is to “combat the efforts 
of the radical left and its Islamist allies 
to destroy American values and disarm 
this country as it attempts to defend 
itself in a time of terror” by focusing on 
college campus activism. 
The DHCF has made appearances 
at other campuses including UC 
Berkeley, UC Irvine and UCSD. 
Tarek Gouda, a member of UCSD’s 
Muslim Student Association, 
recalled an incident where posters, 
similar to those found at SDSU, 
went up around UCSD. 
“In November, posters were put up 
on our campus as well as UCI, UCLA, 
George Washington University and 
American University, which depicted 
SJP activists as terrorists and used the 
hashtag “#SJPJewHaters” , ” Gouda told 
the Guardian. “The fliers were quickly 
removed from around our campus, 
and we were told that demands sent in by student reports were being 
discussed and considered, [most of 
which] have still not been met. ”
Gouda also mentioned how 
UCSD’s officials reached out to 
MSA to tell them that if something 
similar to to the SDSU incident 
took place at UCSD, MSA would 
have the support of university 
administration. 
This Thursday evening Horowitz 
is slated to speak at an SDSU College 
Republicans event titled “David 
Horowitz on Fighting Anti-Semitism 
on College Campuses. ” According 
to the Facebook event, the SDSU 
Muslim Student Union is planning 
on holding a 100-person march on 
the day of the event, though Beck 
recently informed the Guardian that 
no protest would happen. The SDSU 
College Republicans have made the 
event open only to those who are on 
the guest list.mario  espinoza   mae001@ucsd.edu
becca  chong   rcchong@ucsd.eduWe now stream UCSD’s A.S. Council 
meeting live every Wednesday night 
at 6 p.m on the “UCSD Guardian” 
Youtube channel.
G-SPAN
A.S. COUNCIL LIVE!▶ AUDREY’S,  from page 1
▶ SDSU,  from page 14  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 5, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
QUINN  PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
In the past few months, issues 
relating to the Israel-Palestine conflict 
and the broader issue of anti-Semitism 
have come to the forefront of 
administrative discourse on campuses 
across California. 
Citing recent incidences of anti-
Semitism — a swastika painted onto 
a Jewish fraternity house at UC Davis 
and a UCLA student questioned about 
her ability to stay unbiased based 
on her religion — the UC Board of 
Regents took it upon itself to draft a 
set of Principles Against Intolerance, 
approved back in March. Though this 
declaration addresses valid student 
concerns regarding the condemnation 
of hate speech while maintaining 
support for the First Amendment, 
it feels conspicuously one-sided 
regarding the Israel-Palestine conflict. 
Though accommodating the 
wishes of the Jewish students who 
defend various contentious Israeli 
policies, the administration fails to 
recognize and defend the validity of 
the opposition.
Such silence in addressing issues 
that these students face is the rule 
rather than the exception. This has 
been illustrated most recently at San 
Diego State, where posters created 
by the David Horowitz Center for 
Freedom listed the names of seven 
individuals affiliated with Students 
for Justice in Palestine, the Muslim Student Association and the Boycott, 
Divestment and Sanctions movement 
targeting Israel. 
The administration’s response to 
the accusations, which claimed that 
these students “allied themselves with 
Palestinian terrorists to perpetrate 
BDS and Jew Hatred” on campus, 
have been tepid at best. 
SDSU President Elliot Hirshman 
sent an email to students in response 
to this, which stated, “First, we 
recognize and fully support the rights 
of all parties to voice their positions 
on political issues, whether supportive 
or critical. We also understand that 
when parties adopt a specific political 
position they become responsible for 
their actions and these actions may 
produce criticism. ”
While Hirshman’s statement 
addresses the fact that an incident 
involving conflicting political views 
took place, it ignores the libelous 
accusations made against these 
individuals. 
For the targets of these posters, 
such allegations could jeopardize 
career prospects, especially in today’s 
digital age where a Google search of 
one’s name can easily unearth these 
accusations of links to terrorism. Y et 
the administration of a university, 
which claims to promote constructive 
discourse on political and social issues 
without undue consequences, saw fit to respond to a blatant attempt to 
deter students from expressing their 
political views with a statement akin 
to “you had it coming. ”
Neither these posters nor the 
administration’s reaction are unique 
to SDSU. Just last year, posters of a 
similar nature were found on our own 
campus, as well as on UCLA, UC 
Irvine and UC Santa Cruz. 
Despite these attacks targeting 
students for their political beliefs 
regarding the Israel-Palestine conflict, 
the University of California has 
chosen almost exclusively to address 
the issue within the context of anti-
Semitism on campus, through the 
aforementioned set of Principles 
Against Intolerance.  
For example, the document’s 
original form explicitly grouped 
anti-Zionism with anti-Semitism, 
thereby categorizing it as a form of 
intolerance. Only after significant 
pushback from students and faculty 
did the Regents Working Group 
amend the language to say that 
“ Anti-Semitism, anti-Semitic forms 
of anti-Zionism and other forms of 
discrimination have no place at the 
University of California. ” 
By allowing anti-Zionism to be 
easily conflated with anti-Semitism, 
the UC system has allowed for the University Administration Takes One-Sided Stance in Israel-Palestine DebateSan Diego County currently hosts the fourth largest homeless 
population in the nation, trailing only Seattle, Los Angeles and New 
Yor k  C it y.  G i v e n  t h i s  s t at e  of  a ffairs, one would expect the city to 
focus on investing into housing and caring for its homeless residents. 
Unfortunately, this is not the case. Despite the progress that has been 
made in helping the homeless, San Diego has made a step in the wrong 
direction by investing $57,000 in “pest control, ” meant to make city 
residents feel safer at the expense of the homeless’ well-being.
According to an April 28 report by the L.A. Times, the City of San 
Diego installed jagged rocks under a Sherman Heights freeway overpass 
in late April to keep the homeless from living there. Residents had 
complained that the encampments propagated an unsafe atmosphere in 
the area, welcoming the installations they had asked for.
“When we saw the rocks going up, we celebrated, ” Sherman Heights 
resident Ildifonso Carrillo told the L.A. Times. “We’re not anti-homeless, 
we’re pro-resident. ”
8,692. That’s how many homeless individuals live on the streets of 
San Diego, according to the 2016 Homeless Point-in-Time-Count and, 
over 22 percent of these individuals are considered chronically homeless 
or “live in a place not meant for human habitation, a safe haven, or in 
an emergency shelter” for more than 12 consecutive months or for a 
total of 12 months, during at least four di fferent times, over the course of 
three years. Additionally, 14.2 percent of all homeless individuals in San 
Diego are a ffected by some type of mental health illness. It is evident that 
homelessness is an issue that will take years to address. It’s an issue the Obama administration targeted speci fically through initiatives such as 
Opening Doors, which includes a goal of ending homelessness by 2017
The $57,000 spent on the rocks could have been better spent 
combatting the causes of homelessness. While we cannot understate 
the importance and work of local government agencies, ordinances that 
focus on how an area appears, demonstrates a disregard for the issue of 
homelessness by city o fficials.
A grassroots response to the issue came in the form of tiny houses, 
a form of housing that has been used as a remedy for homelessness in 
other cities such as Nashville and Kansas City. Following the controversy 
with the freeway overpass, the non-pro fit homeless advocacy group 
Amikas sent a petition with 9,000 signatures to Mayor Faulconer asking 
the city to set aside currently vacant land for the development of tiny 
homes. A similar attempt to create tiny homes was made by activist 
Eric Summers in Los Angeles last year, but the city government began 
confiscating them due to safety concerns this past March. The tiny 
house movement is commendable in fighting a problem that is being 
inadequately addressed by our government o fficials. Still, we must realize 
that tiny houses are not a permanent or ideal solution to homelessness. 
These shelters, though a step up from absolute homelessness, are 
extremely cramped and o ften lack basic necessities such as bathrooms. 
Our elected o fficials must begin to do their job properly, using the vast 
resources and long-term planning ability at their disposal.
Ending homelessness is a process, and there are mechanisms that 
have been put in place to address it, such as the regional Continuum of 
See HOMELESSNESS, page 5
See ISRAEL-PALESTINE , page 5The allocation of $57,000 to deter the homeless from 
living under a Sherman Heights overpass is one of many 
ineffective attempts to address homelessness. Despite 
national legislation like Opening Doors and local programs 
like WeALLCount, displacement methods contribute 
greatly to the deplorable state of homelessness.ILLUSTRA TION   B Y  CHRISTINA   CARLSONHOMELESSNESS:
TINY  HOUSES  in  the  f ace  of 
SP ARSE  FUNDing  and  
belligerent  displacementAyat   A m i n
A6AMIN@ucsd.eduMuslim  in  america
Is terrorism linked with Islam? 
Every time I hear this question, I 
cringe. It’s a possible narrative to 
believe when looking at popular 
media, yet when looking at hard 
data, it is simply not the truth. 
There is no conclusive study linking 
terrorism with Islam. There are, 
however, extensive studies on the 
disproportionate representation of 
terrorism in the media. If you don’t 
believe me, let’s look at the data.
As PBS reports, five countries 
(Afghanistan, Iraq, Nigeria, Pakistan, 
and Syria) saw 78 percent of all 
terrorist deaths and 57 percent of 
attacks. However, in these regions, 
terrorism has more to do with 
geography and politics than religion. 
As the Atlantic recalls from Global 
Terrorism Database report, between 
1870 and 2013, roughly 70 percent 
of terrorist attacks took place in 
countries with serious ongoing 
conflicts. This explains why countries 
like Iraq and Afghanistan have 
always topped the list of locations 
with terrorist attacks, and why Syria 
joined the ranks within the past few 
years. It’s a country’s stability — not 
religion — that determines how 
much terrorism it will have.
Similar correlations are seen in 
the West, where only 2.6 percent 
of 21st century terror attacks took 
place according to PBS. From these 
attacks, only 2 percent of terror 
attacks in Europe in 2013 were 
religiously motivated according to 
the Daily Beast.
In the U.S., the statistics are even 
more reassuring. In a highly detailed 
FBI report, it is stated that 94 
percent of terror attacks in the U.S. 
were committed by non-Muslims 
between the years 1980 to 2005. This 
includes 9/11. 
These statistics tell a different 
story than our media coverage. 
Assistant Attorney General John 
Carlin from the U.S. Justice 
Department elaborated on this 
topic for the Washington Post. He 
tells the story of two thwarted acts 
of terrorism both occurring in 
2011. One was by a neo-Nazi who 
planted a pipe bomb during an MLK 
parade. The other was by a Saudi 
citizen and Texas resident, who was 
plotting to build a bomb targeting 
U.S. government officials. As Carlin 
concludes, although both cases had 
the same concern and attention from 
the FBI, the neo-Nazi’s attack didn’t 
“‘get as much public attention. ’”
If you are U.S. citizen worried 
about terrorism, then such 
misrepresentation in the media 
should concern you. It perpetuates 
fear of Muslims in the West, provides 
inaccurate reason to support 
Islamophobia, and causes an increase 
in terrorism as a by-product. The 
Guardian cites how more media 
coverage on an act of terrorism 
leads to more follow-up attacks. 
Specifically, an additional New 
Y ork Times article about an attack 
in a particular country increases 
the number of follow-up attacks by 
11 to 15 percent. This is especially 
true with reporting about suicide 
missions, which is partially why the 
number of suicide bombings have 
increased in recent years.
In the end, there’s nothing 
cementing Islam to terrorism, 
especially in the U.S. Y et, it is 
dangerously important to realize 
that believing there is a link 
will likely lead to a rise in such 
terrorism. If we are to prevent this, 
we as Americans will have to learn 
to look at our fellow Muslims, and 
not think terrorist.Skewed Tales 
of  Terrorism
Vincent Pham
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Tina Butoiu
MANAGING EDITOR
Quinn Pieper
OPINION EDITOR
Nate Walker
ASSISTANT OPINION EDITOR
Jacky To
NEWS EDITOR
Josh Lefler
ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITOR
 Maria Sebas
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR
Olga Golubkova
CO-LIFESTYLE EDITOR
Oliver Kelton
FEATURES EDITOREDITORIAL  BOARD
The UCSD Guardian is published twice a week at the 
University of California at San Diego. Contents © 
2015. Views expressed herein represent the majority 
vote of the editorial board and are not necessarily those 
of the UC Board of Regents, the ASUCSD or the 
members of the Guardian staff. OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 5, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
dismissal of legitimate political 
discourse as nothing more than 
hate speech.
The UC system’s reluctance to 
address the accusations that advocates 
of the Palestinian cause have faced 
is all the more concerning when we 
considering the number of students 
who feel that their voices have been 
stifled. According to Liz Jackson, an 
attorney with Palestine Legal, based 
in Oakland, her organization has 
documented more than 76 cases of 
pro-Palestinian advocacy that were 
suppressed on Californian campuses 
last year.
There is no doubt that some 
expressions and forms of anti-
Zionism can be anti-Semitic. This 
does not mean, however, that the 
administration should ignore the 
treatment of students who criticize 
the foundations of Israel and its near half century-long occupation of the 
Palestinian Territories.
The Israel-Palestine conflict is an 
especially polarizing issue, eliciting 
strong opinions even from those 
without direct ties to the area or 
access to the political arenas in which 
it unfolds. 
These tensions will be heightened 
next week when Tritons for Israel 
and Students for Justice in Palestine 
erect displays commemorating or 
criticizing the creation of Israel as a 
Jewish state along Library W alk. It’s 
admirable that the UC administration 
is attempting to temper discussions 
which frequently become borderline 
antagonistic. But rather than simply 
demonizing one side of the argument 
for the sake of keeping the peace, 
administration should for once 
listen to the concerns of the student 
population that opposes Israeli 
occupation, a group that has, for far 
too long, been ignored.
it’sICA STUDENT ACTIVITY FEE
REFERENDUM SPECIAL ELECTIONCare Council, which manages funds 
allocated by the U.S. Department 
of Housing and Development 
through the Homeless Continuum 
of Care Program. Additionally, 
the county is expected to allocate 
funds to programs such as Project 
One for All that seek to allocate 
more resources to treat especially 
vulnerable homeless populations like 
those su ffering from mental illness. 
Furthermore, just this past February 
Mayor Faulconer announced the 
Housing Our Heroes program, a 
collaborative e ffort between the 
City and the San Diego Housing 
Commission that is expected to 
secure housing for over 1,000 veterans by next March. And these 
are just a few of the homeless-
speci fic programs in San Diego. 
Homelessness is an issue anyone 
living remotely close to San Diego 
knows about, as the city has the 
fourth largest homeless population 
in the country. As such, there is an 
implicit understanding that people 
who live on the street will not just 
“go away. ” Yes, safety concerns 
are real and the fact that there 
are people living on the streets 
is an uncomfortable, disturbing 
reality, but it’s a reality. Homeless 
individuals are members of our 
community. They are people, 
signi ficant proportions of whom 
suffered trauma that landed them 
on the streets. The mission of the WeALLCount initiative is, a fter 
all, to identify these individuals 
in order to secure federal funding 
to provide them with the care and 
services they need to once again live 
a digni fied life. Funding for these 
programs is limited as it is, with San 
Diego receiving less than 22 other 
cities, even though it has the fourth 
largest homeless population. Thus, 
the fact that an allocation of funds, 
to be spent on “removing” homeless 
individuals from certain areas of 
San Diego, is mind-boggling and 
petty. Aside from dehumanizing the 
homeless, these actions devalue the 
tireless work of local advocates and 
policymakers to care for homeless 
individuals and make San Diego a 
safer place for all of its residents. Rock Installation Counteracts Progress Made by Local Programs for HomelessnessAdministrators Vaguely Address Activists’ Concerns 
▶ HOMELESSNESS from page 4▶ ISRAEL-PALESTINE  from page 4
WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
THE
MOVIE ANGRY BIRDSQ&A
Long gone are the glory days of the friendly neighborhood pigeon. We now live in the age of the red bird, blue bird and boomerang bird — the 
Angry Birds. Once an unavoidable mobile game, the franchise is soaring back into the pop culture consciousness with an animated movie. Written 
by “The Simpsons” writer Jon Vitti and voiced by a flock of hyper-talented comedic actors, “ The Angry Birds Movie” is taking aim at the box o ffice 
and shooting for the crown. To learn more about the film, the UCSD Guardian took part in a wacky and informal Q&A session with yellow bird 
Chuck and white bird Matilda themselves: Josh Gad and Maya Rudolph.
Interview by  Jacky To //  Illustrations (le ft to right) by  David G. Juarez, Alex Liang, Elyse Y ang, Alex Lee, Alex Liang
Q: W as there a lot of improvising that went on when you were recording your lines, or 
did you mostly just stick to what the script said?
Josh:  Maya doesn’t even read; she’ s actually illiterate.
Maya: I can only improvise and repeat back to people what they said to me.
Josh:   That’s always very difficult. They have to give her an ear piece and they have to 
believe in her. 
Maya:  We did a lot of believing.
Josh:  We improvised nonstop. Part of the beauty of animation is you get a microphone 
and two hours of play. There is no wrong version of what you do. You just get to go off.
Maya:  And I went off. Did you go off?
Josh:  I did go off. 
Maya:  Like a mofo?
Josh:  Like angry go off or like improv?
Maya:  No, improv goes off.
Josh:  Oh, I went off angry go off. I went off (New Y ork accent).
Maya:  I feel like what’s nice about this kind of improv — which is completely 
different from the kind of improv you do onstage with a group of people — is you can’t focus 
simply on the sound of your voice. Y ou really finesse the character pretty deeply in a short 
amount of time because it’s solely concentrated on the voice. Y ou don’t have to worry about 
your body language. Although, do you worry about body language?
Josh:  I do worry about body language because when you have a character as physical 
as Chuck, it just kind of organically happens. If you’re standing still and you need to speak 
fast, it’s not going to come out properly. 
Maya:  Can I ask a personal question: what was your body language for Olaf? W as it 
lower?
Josh:  No, the way into Olaf was, I just did a kid, like this naivete. It was a very childish 
sort of attitude, physically, that I had. But it’s really none of your goddamn business how I did 
Olaf. What was your approach to the “Big Hero 6” mom? By the way, I love that movie. But 
we love “ Angry Birds” the most because that’s the movie we’re promoting. I got your back, 
Sony Pictures.
Maya:  I forgot because I don’t know how to read.
Josh:  She thinks we’re doing “Bridesmaids, ” but this isn’t “Bridesmaids. ”
Maya:  No? But there are a lot of birds in “Bridesmaids.”Q: Angry Birds is a game that kids love and now there’s a movie based on it. So are there 
games from your childhood that you would want to make a movie out of? 
Josh:   I wanna do a Contra movie.
Maya:  Do you wanna do Kubert?
Josh:  It’ s called “Pixels, ” and it didn’t work out.
Maya:  What about Donkey Kong?
Josh:  Again, have you seen my last film? We’ve done all this. Y ou know what movie 
I’ d love to be a part of, honestly? I feel like Super Mario Bros. deserves a movie. They did a 
movie, but it was terrible, awful. It was a live-action movie.
Maya:  With who?
Josh:  It was with John Leguizamo, Dennis Hopper, and — oh, what’s his name? — one 
of my favorite actors from “Who Framed Roger Rabbit?”
Maya:  Oh, the British guy?
Josh:  Y eah, Bob Hopkins. So that would be awesome to do, like a really genuinely 
great Mario Bros. movie . . . I tapped out the video game market. This is my swan song until 
the inevitable call comes for a Minecraft adaptation, where it’s just gonna be me building 
things for two hours.
Maya: What if somebody was like, “Hey, we’re kind of doing like a spin-off of the 
ghosts from Pac-Man and like why they eat what they eat. ”
Josh:  Again, this is a movie called “Pixels. ” I would encourage you to rent this movie. 
Maya:  What about Centipede?
Josh:  Okay, we’re going to get off this. Clearly, Maya needs an education in my 
filmography.
Maya:  Space invaders?
Josh:  Nope. Been there, done that.
Maya:  Galaga.
Josh:  Again, you need to go home … If any of these answers disappointed you, this 
has been Danny McBride and Bill Hader.
Maya:  I’m Bill Hader.
Questions asked by University of Minnesota and UCSD, respectively. All 
questions compiled and transcribed by the UCSD Guardian. THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 5, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
Q:  What new things can audiences expect from your character in this film 
that they might not have gotten specifically in “Captain America: The Winter 
Soldier”?
Emily:   We were really planting a seed in “The Winter Soldier. ” Captain 
America didn’t even know that she was Sharon Carter within that film. So that’s 
definitely something new we find out. We find out who she is — well, Steve 
finds out who she is — and that inevitably deepens their connection because of 
the shared tie with Peggy. There’s just an inevitable, immediate trust between 
them. And we really explore that throughout this film, and we see that the 
stakes are high for her because her job is at stake if she’s helping Cap. That’s the 
bottom-line, but we really see her sort of follow her heart rather than her head, 
which is cool.
Q:  This film is a Captain America film, though it does have quite a few 
other Avengers in it. How do you feel the film differentiates itself from the 
previous two Avengers films and makes itself truly a new Captain America 
movie? 
Emily:   It’s interesting. It does really feel like the Avengers. Everybody 
is in it, pretty much. So it is hard to differentiate it, but they really are kind of 
focused on the relationship between Tony and Steve and what they represent. 
And the rest is just sort of people picking sides. They really delve into the depth 
of what these two characters within the universe truly, truly feel. And they are 
the extremes of those feelings that, you know, other people are kind of following, 
so it still does feel like a Captain film.  
Q:  Can you tell me what makes this film stand out from other Marvel films? 
Emily:   I just feel like each movie gets better and better. It’s amazing to 
me. I mean, to pick one thing, this film is just absolutely epic, from introducing 
these great new characters to these epic battle scenes, it’s just taking it to a whole 
other level. 
The Russo brothers did an extraordinary job with it, so not to put down any of 
the other films, which are amazing, but I just feel like this is kind of the biggest 
one they have done yet.  And that’s kind of what Marvel does. They never, never 
disappoint. So, hopefully everyone loves it as much as I did. 
Q:  This is your second time working with the Russo brothers. Can you 
describe what it’s like, working with them, and how working with a pair of 
directors feels different than working with a single director?
Emily:  Absolutely. This is my second time working with the brothers. I 
worked with brothers on “Carriers” as well — honestly, I think it’s an amazing 
way to work. They obviously are brothers so they have a tremendous rapport. 
Marvel’s new blockbuster, “Captain America: Civil War, ” picks up the 
story of the Avengers from where “ Avengers: Age of Ultron” le ft off. The 
superheroes are now divided into two teams due to opposing stances on 
the government’s regulation, led by Steve Rogers (Chris Evans) and Tony 
Stark (Robert Downey Jr.).
“Captain America: Civil War” is highly anticipated not only due to the 
dramatic and emotional tensions between Team Captain America and 
Team Iron Man, but also due to the introduction of  several important 
characters who have yet to be featured in the “Captain America” sequence. 
These figures include but are not limited to Black Panther (Chadwick 
Boseman), Spider-Man (Tom Holland), Ant-Man (Paul Rudd) and 
Everett Ross (Martin Freeman). Emily VanCamp made her first but brief 
appearance as Agent 13, widely known as Captain America’s girlfriend, in 
“Captain America: The Winter Soldier” in 2014 and continues to portray 
this role as a major character in “Captain America: Civil War. ” The UCSD 
Guardian had a chance to listen to VanCamp’s thoughts on the film and 
the Marvel Cinematic Universe. But with a movie of this scale, it kind of is amazing to have two people. One person can be focusing on one thing, and one 
person can be focusing on the other. So they really get great performances. They get great effects. It’s double the power —  
to keep this huge engine moving, it really helps to have two people, and they are both brilliant and kind of extraordinary 
in their own way. 
 
So honestly it’s a huge bonus, and they’re great guys and really fun to work with, so it’s like a win-win all the way around. 
Q:  With “Captain America: Civil War,” what are you most excited for in the future with Marvel’s cinematic universe?
 
Emily:   Well I’m always excited for all of their films, to be honest. Whether or not I’m a part of them, you just 
don’t know until they’re sort of written, so I think it would be amazing to continue in the universe. But even if I don’t, I’ll 
certainly continue watching because the movies just keep getting better and better.  
Questions asked by University of North Carolina, Seattle Pacific, Webster University and University of 
Hawaii, respectively. All questions compiled and transcribed by the UCSD Guardian.Capt ain  America:  Civil  W ar
Interview  by Yidian Huang // Senior Sta ff Writer
Illustration by  Karly Nisson8     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 5, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  WEEKEND
The  Christian  
Lifestyle:  
An Advice 
Column 
What is your advice for 
starting a blog for 
someone who isn’t a 
writer or used to doing these kinds 
of things? — Anonymous
So you’ve finally decorated a 
Wordpress, reconfigured into the 
very image of your dream house 
(courtesy of gentrification and 
Pinterest). Before you know it, 
you’re on your way to writing your 
first post, typing with confidence: 
WELCOME TO MY CORNER 
OF THE INTERNET . And then it 
hits you: Newsflash, if you don’t get 
Buzzfeed click-bait status to generate 
revenue, your domain rent is going 
to leave you on the stock market low. 
What do you do? Like your late-night 
best friend when you’re in a sudden 
panic about newfound existentialism 
or life problems, V .O.D.C.A. is here to 
save the day. 
“V” not only stands for vienna 
sausages but, more importantly, for 
voice. In a meta turn of events, think 
of your blog as competing with a 
significantly larger pool of other 
blogs. What made Hugh Dancy stand 
out from every white boy in the 
global sphere? For one, he looks half-
retriever and has an accent sharply 
written on his words, so there’s no 
surprise Bryan Fuller went Y AAAS 
and took him in. Perhaps you work 
better by lacquering everything with 
a one-liner, or perhaps dabbling in 
experimental third-person prose 
works best for you. But make sure it’s 
your voice.
A convenient segue from voice, 
“O” for originality means you’re 
pioneering something new, whether 
it’s reinventing something pre-
existing or talking about something 
buried miles into the ground. I’ve 
read so many teenage angst blogs 
in my lifetime that clique drama 
makes me Ctrl+Alt+Del — a more 
interesting incarnation would be how 
it intersects growing self-awareness 
of racial tensions fabricated into 
the institution, or in the context of 
neoliberalism. Or, change your blog 
to self-ethnography and be scientific 
about your blog posts.
Now, as someone who has done 
an advice column for nearly three 
quarters straight, there is absolutely 
no reason to stop at any point. “D” is 
dedication, and it means not backing 
down despite the odds — nothing 
you ever do will be perfect, but what’s 
important is that you impulsively 
write something up, publish it and 
never look back. Sheep are only jeans 
without their vital organs, so a blog is 
not a blog if there is nothing on it. Y ou 
need substance!
“C” is content, which means you 
need to start making decisions: Are 
you going to spread yourself wide 
and make it a general blog, or are 
you going to focus on particular 
issues? I myself enjoy ravaging 
Hollywood and their apathy — 
seriously, if it were a person, I’m 
sure Hollywood would be a Taurus. 
One might focus exclusively on 
Nike shoes while another might 
jump from Star Wars to Star Trek to 
Starbread. 
Lastly, “ A ” is audience: who are you 
appealing to? It can be for yourself, 
your uncle, random cult members on 
the Internet, but just know that these 
are the people watching. The peanut 
gallery doesn’t care, and yet is hyper-
involved at the same time. Use your 
audience as feedback and improve 
your blog.
CHRISTIAN GELLA 
CGELLA@UCSD.EDU53*50/508"5$)
Interview by Maria Manalang // Lifestyle Staff Writer
It’s easy to be passionate about change, but it’s much more di fficult to transition change into 
action. Student leader and activist Meghan Yap is a graduating UCSD senior majoring in 
biological anthropology and global health who has recently has been honored as a White 
House Champion of Change for the “It’s On Us” campaign against sexual assault, epitomizing 
what it means to be both a scholarly citizen and advocate. 
Guardian:  Can you tell us about your research regarding sexual 
assault on college and university campuses?
Meghan:  As a research assistant with the UCSD Medical School’s 
Center on Gender Equity and Health, under the supervision of Dr. Anita Raj of 
the department of global public health, I have been analyzing the UC Office of 
the President’s and UCSD’s policies regarding sexual assault to see whether or 
not they comply with recommendations from anti-rape coalitions’ best-practice 
recommendations. The objective is to determine how well we’re supporting our 
survivors, based on criteria laid out by the experts like the California Coalition 
Against Sexual Assault and the Rape, Incest, Abuse National Network. There is 
a lot of very important research on the prevention side, but my research focuses 
on what happens after: Is a student who experiences sexual assault able to get 
support from the university academically [and] socially, [and] are they able to 
seek justice for what happened to them?
This research stems from my own experience as a survivor of sexual assault 
perpetrated by a fellow UCSD student. I developed post-traumatic stress 
disorder after the assault that was so severe that I became intermittently illiterate 
and experienced crippling panic attacks and depression. Keeping up with 
college is just about impossible if you can’t attend class, concentrate or read. I 
was suffering emotionally, physically and consequently academically. Getting 
academic accommodations was incredibly difficult and took nearly a year for 
me. I found out through social networks that my rapist had previously been 
acquitted for a charge of sexual assault, so I decided not to put myself through 
the investigative process to seek justice for my rape. A lot of the help-seeking 
routes I pursued ended up causing more harm than good. I sought help from 
many on-campus offices, and while administrators were well-intentioned, there 
lacked an understanding of how to interact with [and] support survivors, and 
most importantly, how to not make survivors feel responsible.
G:  What can we do as a campus to alleviate this? 
M:  One in five women will be sexually assaulted during their undergraduate 
careers. At a campus the size of UCSD, we can project there are thousands 
of survivors at any given time. We can estimate hundreds of people will 
be assaulted during their time on campus, yet every year we receive few 
reports. Emerging research indicates that campus infrastructure perceived as 
unsupportive can create “institutional betrayal, ” where a survivor’s one-in-
three odds of developing PTSD rise even further. This secondary victimization 
happens when a survivor is made to feel that he or she was responsible, that they 
are generally unsupported or that the assault was not taken seriously. 
While I did not have a positive experience with support services, I believe that 
UCSD has one of the better systems in place, and what sets us ahead is that 
we do have a lot of people who care about this issue, but we need to unify if 
we truly want to end sexual violence and prevent secondary victimization. We 
need to use trauma-informed, research-based recommendations to inform our 
policies, otherwise, how do we know if our services and employees are hurting 
or helping? I challenge our campus and the UC Office of the President to lead 
the way by listening to survivors of sexual assault — using campus-climate 
surveys, creating an easily accessible avenue to file complaints if an individual 
feels that the support they received was re-victimizing, and simply engaging 
survivors to find out how the survivor experience can be improved. Most 
importantly, we need zero-tolerance policies for those who have been guilty of sexual violence. Given the rates of recidivism for sexually violent crimes, we 
know that someone who has committed a sexual assault is very, very likely to do 
it again, perhaps to the original victim or someone else. Let’s not forget that the 
victim will be re-traumatized when they see the assailant again. While it’s on us 
to end campus rape, it’s also on us to not re-victimize survivors. 
As university campuses, we have a unique opportunity to educate people on 
consent and prevent sexual assaults. From a public health standpoint, it is a 
perfect opportunity to intervene and create the widespread social change that we 
need to end rape culture. 
G:  How was being honored at the White House as a ‘Champion for 
Change’?
M:  It was amazing! The White House honoring people for their work to end 
sexual assault on campuses is historically important as it acknowledges that the 
United States does have a problem on college campuses, and we will not ignore 
it any more. I am so happy to see that people from around the country are 
doing work to end sexual violence and are very concerned about how we treat 
survivors. Also meeting the vice president was absolutely incredible; he is so 
passionate about this issue. 
My day at the White House was a blur, but everyone was so supportive and 
many White House staff I interacted with had also worked on anti-sexual assault 
issues in college. The other nine champions and I met with policy makers where 
we provided recommendations for campus policies and took part in panels that 
were streamed on the White House website. Feminist and actor extraordinaire, 
Matt McGorry, was the moderator for my panel. [Joe] Biden announced each of 
the champions, and he even held my hand! 
G:  How has this experience impacted and furthered your work? 
M:  The best part about being picked as a “Champion” is the opportunity to 
give a voice to so many survivors who have been silenced or are unable to speak 
about their experiences. I also wanted to empower others who may be afraid to 
speak out and send this message: Y ou are not alone. 
I am so fortunate to have been picked as I heard that there were about 800 
nominations for 10 spots. I am an unlikely White House “Champion” as I am 
a first-generation college student. I am a woman of color who grew up poor. I 
am a survivor of campus rape. I was able to give a voice to communities that are 
often marginalized and silenced. I am so thankful to the people who supported 
me through my recovery, research and journey to the White House.  
The White House honor also belongs to each of the brave survivors who 
informed my research, my loved ones who held me together through my 
recovery, and the administrators and researchers who directed my investigation. 
Ultimately, the only way I was able to cope with what happened to me was to 
believe that I could make a difference and change the system that had hurt 
me. I wanted to make lemonade out of something so unspeakably awful, and 
the White House gave me an opportunity to do just that by giving me a spot 
(literally) at the table. 
Meghan yap
Triton Facts:PHOTO COURTESY OF THE LOT
PHOTOS  USED WITH PERMISSION FROM MEGHAN YAPName:  Meghan Yap
Ye ar :  4th Y ear
College:  Warren
Major:  Biological Anthropol -
ogy and Global Health
Hometown:  Hawthorne, CA
On - Campus Jobs:  RA, 
College Ambassador/Tour 
Guide, Warren College O ffice 
Assistant, Volunteer EMT with 
Flying Samaritans
Favorite Place on Campus:  
Treehouse lounge (it is super 
pretty and in close proximity to 
coffee)
Vice:  Coffee
Favorite Class:  BICD 136 
“ AIDS, Science, and Society” 
with Dr Gustafson
Zodiac Sign:  LeoWEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 5, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
It is hard to round a corner in San Diego 
without running into Mexican cuisine, 
but I am not complaining. So, what better 
than a Mexican take on a Japanese classic? 
Cue the sushiritto. With two locations now 
open in San Diego, Sushi Freak will be sure 
to fulfill your pent-up sushi cravings. Built 
upon the idea of make-your-own sushi, the 
franchise offers customers the choice to 
personalize their own rolls through extensive 
protein, topping and sauce options. In more 
recent years, the restaurant has gained 
traction for their sushi burrito options. 
The sushiritto menu, also known as “El 
Sushi Burrito Menu” , offers seven unique 
experiences, ranging from the Angry Bird, 
a teriyaki chicken wrap, to the Gun Show, a 
seafood-heavy protein option.
Sushi Freak rocks a simple interior with 
speedy service and open seating availability. 
Displays around the restaurant sell Asian 
specialty snacks and beverages, including 
rarely seen Pocky flavors and Hello Kitty-
brand wines. After browsing the snacks while 
waiting in line to order, the food is made 
directly in front of you, Chipotle-style. Upon 
receiving your sushirrito at the end of the 
assembly line, the cost comes in at about eight 
dollars. It is surprisingly captivating to watch as the sushiritto experts arrange the large 
seaweed wraps, layering them with copious 
amounts of rice before adding protein and 
other stuffing selections. The Linda Vista 
location, about 20 minutes from UCSD, is 
nestled in a small shopping center alongside 
other fast dining options that all share a 
convenient parking lot. But be sure to arrive 
before their early 9 p.m. closing!
My favorite item on the menu, 
appropriately named for San Diego, is the 
Beach Bum — a perfect balance of savory 
and sweet, packed with crab mix, shrimp 
and cream cheese contrasting with fresh 
mango, cucumber, avocado and crunchy 
toasted coconut. Every roll is served with 
a delicious housemade spicy mayo sauce 
and a sweet sesame seed cucumber salad, 
alongside the classic ginger and wasabi. 
Free extra sauces are listed on the menu 
and given upon request. The rolls are 
astonishingly filling, so come hungry so you 
can leave happy.
Needless to say, Sushi Freak will have you 
hooked upon first bite. Ten stamps on their 
loyalty card will get you a free roll, so be sure 
to get credit for coming back to try all of their 
enticing sushiritto options before you choose 
your favorite. A culinary trifecta of convenience, inno -
vation and quality, Pokirrito houses the 
ultimate lovechild of the San Diego-
Tijuana border and its Pacific neighbor, Japan. 
Located off of Convoy Street, Pokirrito’s highly 
anticipated opening broke into the food scene 
of Kearny Mesa — known for its Korean BBQ 
meccas, traditional pho eateries and boba geo -
tag on Snapchat — bringing a distinct fusion of 
Pacific Rim meets Tex-Mex in both poke prep -
aration and aesthetic. Situated next to its sister 
gastropubs, RakiRaki Ramen and Tsukemen, 
both opened by chef Junya W atanabe, Pokirrito 
has a flavor all on its own, featuring two items 
— the sushiritto and poke bowl — uniquely 
executed in iconic and contemporary ways. 
With six different sushirittos to choose from 
and a plethora of poke bowl combinations to 
curate — not to mention the array of flavored 
teas, frozen beers or Stumptown cold brews 
available — ordering can be a daunting task. 
Pokirrito nonetheless eases the first-timer’s fear 
with the familiarity of the production line and 
clean menu infographics, thereby maximizing 
both comprehensive consumption and profit: 
The more quickly people understand how this 
works, the more food is purchased. This idea 
streamlines into every facet of the restaurant; 
minimalistic furnishings, industrial fixtures and 
neutral palettes allow the brightly colored food 
and flavors stand out. But moving on to the more important topic 
at hand — the food itself. Connoisseurs have 
the option of picking the poke bowl, diversely 
ranging in size, toppings, sauces and fish, or the 
sushiritto, an Americana portioned sushi roll 
packed with fish and meat, tamago omelettes, 
vegetables, lotus chips, marinades and masago. 
While the hungry tend to opt for the sushirrito, 
the bowl carries a weight of its own. Depending 
on stomach capacity, one can select anywhere 
from two to four scoops of white or brown rice 
as the bedding for succulent pieces of salmon, 
octopus, scallops or tuna, each bathing in its 
individual mix of oils and spices. Toppings 
include miso, spicy aioli, furikake and seaweed 
salad, and donned with confetti tempura. And 
for the crowning glory itself — the sushiritto 
options are both paradoxically vast yet debat -
ably disappointing. With only one sushirrito 
containing poke, the name of the restaurant 
seemingly deviates from the featured item 
itself. A majority of the sushirittos focus on the 
land-ridden meats, from katsu pork to beef and 
even portobello mushrooms. And while the 
variety is highly appreciated, it perhaps loses 
the emphasis Pokirrito was striving for at the 
start. Nevertheless, with its fresh ingredients, 
signature yet subtle flavors and ingenious styl -
ings, Pokirrito is a dining experience for those 
craving something outside the box, er, tortilla. BY   T a r a   N e j a d
Lifestyle contributing writer
BY   S h e l by   N e w a l l i s
Lifestyle Senior Staff writerBY   B r i t t n e y   l u
Lifestyle co-editor
Brittney  lu   Ta r a   N e j a d    PHOTO COURTESY OF THE LOT
DISCOVER:  SUSHIRRITO
A hybrid between the best of San Diegan cuisine — Paci fic-based seafood and Mexicali tacos — the sushiritto has taken the West Coast by storm. Read 
on to find out more about this inventive crossbreed of California’s favorite foods. 
HOURS:
11 a.m. to 11 p.m. Sunday to SaturdayLOCATION:
4646 Convoy Street #101-A 
San Diego, CA 92111$$
HOURS:
11 a.m. to 9 p.m.LOCATION:
5175 Linda Vista Rd. 
San Diego, CA 92110$
Sushi freak pokirritoPHOTO BY TARA NEJAD
ILLUSTRATION COURTESY OF PAELLA AND WINE FESTIVALPHOTO BY BRITTNEY LU
This Saturday, San Diego is getting in the Spanish spirit 
with The Second Annual Paella & Wine Festival. For 
those of you not familiar with Spanish cuisine — besides 
jamon — ham is more than just a food in Spain: it’s a lifestyle. 
Paella is generally considered to be as Spanish as it gets. Though 
it may seem to be just a simple rice dish, paella is actually quite 
complex. With its name coming from the pan it’s cooked in, 
the paellera, paella is a saffron-infused rice dish that marries 
bold flavors and delightful textures. Combined with a variety of 
meats, shellfish and vegetables, Paella was originally a peasant’s 
meal cooked over an open fire in the fields and eaten directly 
from the pan using wooden spoons. Today, Paella is still enjoyed 
all over Spain, usually on Sundays for lunch with family.
Luckily Spain isn’t the only place that has paella. Try Spain’s 
signature dish this Saturday at The Paella & Wine Festival, 
which will feature the largest paella ever made in California. 
For all of you non-seafood or meat eaters, never fear, it wouldn’t 
be California without a vegan option. This year’s festival will 
also feature the largest vegan paella ever made, by vegan chef 
Rawvanna. To wash it all down, there will be unlimited wine, 
beer and spirit tastings from local breweries, tequileiras and 
wineries. So come out this Saturday for live music, paella and 
the best fiesta outside of Spain. When: 
Saturday, May 7, 2016
12:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m.Where: 
Waterfront Park, 
1600 Paci fic Highway, 
San Diego, CA 9210110 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 5, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDS$
Gua rdian Classi fieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedsBIKES
Six Speed Ladies Beach Cruiser - $125. 
Everything on it is in very good working 
order. Call,  make an appointment, come 
and see her. She’s ready to go. Listing ID: 
258651287 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
1989 Premier Road Bike - $215. Ultimate 
North Park Old School Hipster Bike. 
Everything works. Good brakes, gears, new 
tires. Listing ID: 258651283 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
Cannondale F7 Mountain Bike for Sale - 
$300. Selling my cannondale F7 mountain 
bike. Size large. It’s in terrific shape and I 
got it tuned last week so it rides great, I just 
don’t ride it anymore so it’s ready to sell. 
Great commuter or for hitting a few trails. 
Listing ID: 258651282 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
AUTO
Toyota Rav4 2008 SUV - $9900. Four cyl -
inders, automatic transmission, 113,000 
miles. Car is in excellent condition. 
Everything works perfect. Smog test is 
good. Title is clean. Never had an accident, 
with perfect Carfax and only one prior 
owner. Car has been maintained regularly 
and is very reliable. Interior is clean. Non 
smoker. Do not have pets. Exterior color 
is black. Interior color is ash. Listing ID: 
260143278 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
2013 FIAT 500C POP 2D CONVERTIBLE 
- $9975. 15 x 6.0 Steel Wheels, Cloth 
Bucket Seats, AM/FM Radio, 4-Wheel 
Disc Brakes, 6 Speakers, Air Conditioning, 
Electronic Stability Control, Front Bucket 
Seats, Tachometer, ABS brakes, AM/FM 
radio, Anti-whiplash front head restraints, 
Brake assist, Bumpers: body-color, CD 
player, Convertible roof lining. Listing ID: 
260182719 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
2013 MAZDA MAZDA3 2.0L AT I SPORT - 
$14075. 16 x 6.5J Steel w/Full Wheel Covers 
Wheels, Reclining Front Bucket Seats, Cloth 
Seat Trim, AM/FM/CD/MP3 Compatible 
Audio System, 4 Speakers, 4-Wheel Disc 
Brakes, Air Conditioning, Electronic Stability 
Control, Front Bucket Seats, Front Center 
Armrest, Tachometer, ABS brakes, AM/FM 
radio, Anti-whiplash front head. Listing ID: 
260177138 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more informationFURNITURE
Sleep Science Memory Foam Mattresses, 
Spring Air Mattress - $200. Sleep science 
memory foam twin mattresses: $110. Retail 
price is $399. Sleep science memory foam 
Cali King mattresses: $140 (really dirty). 
Retail price is $749. Spring air kings: 
$200. Dirty from the bottom. Retail price 
is $1,299. Adjustable bases with remotes: 
$150. Retail price is $999. ALL MATTRESSES 
HAVE NEVER BEEN USED. JUST DIRTY FROM 
TRANSPORTATION TO MY HOUSE. Listing 
ID: 259458375 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
Black Suede Couch That Pulls Out Into a 
Couch - $50. Terrific condition, no room in 
my UHaul. Pull out bed still in it’s original 
plastic. Perfect for family and guests that 
decide to sleep over!! Must have for a family 
or college students! Listing ID: 259458371 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Dining Room Set - $300. Includes chairs 
and table with built-in leaf. Listing ID: 
259458372 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
t
your vision,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel to 
promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies 
on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.ukLevel: 1234 Level: 1234
SUDOKU
Dr. Terranova, Dr. Sherman, and Dr. Horne
TORREY PINES
DENTAL ARTS
We welcome UCSD Staff & Students
Richard L Sherman DDS
Steven B. Horne DDS
Scripps/Ximed Medical Center
9850 Genessee Avenue #720
La Jolla, CA 92037
858-453-5525
Info@TorreyPinesDentalArts.com
www.TorreyPinesDentalArts.com• All dental services provided in one 
convenient location
• We accept all UCSD Insurance Plans
• New Patients & Emergencies Welcome
• Easily accessible from Campus -
right across from the UCSD baseball 
field; on the UCSD Bus Line.what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
treasures
vintage
fashion
UCSD International Center • Tuesday -  Friday, 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m.
(858) 534-1124 • shopfic@ucsd.edu
@Friends_Resale_Shop
#UCSDNEWS
#NOFILTERS @ucsdguardian#FOLLOW USSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 5, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
The UCSD women’s water polo 
team earned an automatic bid to the 
NCAA tournament after winning the 
Western W ater Polo Association title 
for the fourth straight year this past 
weekend. The Tritons were favored 
to win the WWPA after having a 
perfect record in conference play with 
a record of 3–0 and an overall record 
of 24–9 this season. UCSD is currently 
nationally ranked at the No. 12 spot, 
and will host Whittier College in a 
National Collegiate Women’s Water 
Polo Championship play-in game on 
Tuesday, May 10 at the Canyonview 
Aquatic Center. The winner of this 
match will move on to face UCLA at 
the NCAA Championship at UCLA ’s 
Spieker Aquatics Center May 13 to 
May 15. 
After earning a bye past the first 
round of WWPA playoffs, the Tritons 
crushed the fourth-seeded team, 
Mercyhurst University, in the semi-
final match. With a final score of 16–4, 
the top-seeded Tritons picked up their 
sixth straight win as they clinched their 
seventh consecutive appearance in the 
WWPA finals. 
The Tritons set the tempo in the 
first quarter as they scored the first 
two goals of the match thanks to 
redshirt junior two-meter defender 
Alexis Wieseler and senior attacker 
Laurel Kistler. However, Mercyhurst 
managed to score once in the first 
quarter, making the score 2–1 before 
UCSD opened the game up during the 
second quarter. 
Kistler, junior center Lauren Boyer, 
freshman attacker Krista Schneider, 
sophomore utility Kayla Fedler and 
freshman center Chanel Schilling scored six goals in the second quarter, 
giving the Tritons a comfortable 8–2 
lead over Mercyhurst. 
UCSD increased its lead once again 
in the third quarter after outscoring 
Mercyhurst, 5–1, resulting in a 
dominating score of 13–3. The younger 
sister of Alexis Wieseler, freshman 
attacker Maddy Wieseler, joined in 
the fun and scored a goal while Fedler, 
Schneider, and Alexis Wieseler were 
credited with the other goals. 
During the fourth quarter, 
Schneider found the back of the net 
twice; senior center, Lauren Finwall 
scored one as well, allowing the Tritons 
to defeat Mercyhurst by 12 goals. 
Schneider led the Tritons with four 
goals and Kistler recorded a hat trick 
with three on the day while senior 
goalie Courtney Miller managed four 
saves in the first half, before sophomore 
goalie Emma Scholz relieved her in the second half and stopped three goals 
from passing through. 
During the WWPA championship 
game, the Tritons overcame an early 
two-goal deficit as they took down 
the third-seeded host, Cal State East 
Bay, 9–5 to earn the win, getting 
them the opportunity of playing a 
play-in game to go to the National 
Championship Tournament. 
Cal State East Bay scored early, 
taking a 2–0 lead in the first quarter. 
But the Tritons answered back in 
the second quarter, scoring three 
consecutive goals from Fedler, Tittle 
and Schneider to take the lead. The 
Pioneers regained the lead, scoring on 
a powerplay before Tittle found the 
back of the net with 27 seconds left in 
the half, giving UCSD the advantage 
once again with a score of 4–3. 
Miller shut out the Pioneers for 
the entire third quarter, allowing the Tritons’ offense some time to get a 
larger lead. Senior attacker Emma 
Sasson scored twice on powerplays, 
giving the Tritons a three-goal lead 
over the Pioneers heading into the 
final quarter of the match. The final 
quarter of the game consisted of goals 
from both teams but Cal State East 
Bay’s hope of winning a championship 
was finally put to rest after Boyer and 
Fedler scored one goal apiece, putting 
UCSD ahead by four.
The final score was 9–5 as the 
Tritons earned their fourth consecutive 
WWPA crown. 
Tittle, Miller and Fedler were all 
WWPA All-Tournament First Team 
selections while Sasson earned second-
team honors. Miller was named as the 
WWPA Tournament MVP .
week  in
summar y
W.  W A TER POLOSOFTBALL
Cal State San Marcos
Cal State San Marcos
UCSD
UCSDUCSD
UCSD
San Diego State
San Diego State6
64  3
4  3
5
55  2
5  2Women’s Water Polo Wins Fourth Consecutive Title
Tritons face off against Whittier College next, winner plays UCLA in Division One Water Polo Tournament.
BY  sa m a n t h a  g l a n t zW. W A TER POLO
readers can contact
samantha glantz    sglantz@ucsd.edu PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE /UCSD GUARDIANSHOCKSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
MARCUS  THIULLIER  &  DEV  JAIN
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 5, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
Humboldt State:
Well, as it turns out, the Tritons couldn’t care less about who their opponent is 
or what their record is. A fter what seemed like a dire situation, having been asked 
to play the top-seeded Humboldt State Lumberjacks, UCSD felt absolutely no 
fear as it came out swinging against its conference rival on Friday.
Even a fter quickly drawing two outs in the opening inning, the Triton o ffense 
settled down and quickly put three players on base. And sophomore designated 
player Emily Sklencar wasn’t about to let the moment get the better of her, drilling 
the ball to right field and sending two Tritons home to earn a 2–0 lead.
The Triton defense wouldn’t let the o ffense have all the fun, however. Pitching 
against an o ffense that led the conference with 36 home runs during the season, 
senior le ft-handed pitcher Lexi Edwards was handed no simple task. But like 
Sklencar and her clutch double, Edwards felt the ice in her veins and kept the 
Lumberjacks scoreless for the first three innings. 
As the game progressed, it was clear that the Lumberjacks were outmatched 
by UCSD’s o ffensive machine. During the top of the fourth, the Tritons sent four 
more players around the bases to take an unbelievable 6–0 lead over Humboldt 
State. While the Lumberjacks would show signs of life in the remaining innings, 
scoring four unanswered points to close the gap, junior le ft-handed pitcher 
Milana Casillas stepped in and shut down any hopes of a Lumberjack comeback 
with a final score of 6–4.
Edwards was credited with the win, allowing eight hits and four runs 
against the 27 batters the Tritons faced. Senior shortstop McKenna Clewett 
tied with senior out fielder Taylor Abeyta with two hits and one run, while 
Abeyta earned an extra RBI on top of that; Sklencar finished the game with 
two RBIs and one run.
By derailing the Lumberjack train, the Tritons handed Humboldt State its 
fourth loss of the season, dropping the team down to 45–4–1, with the Tritons 
responsible for half of those losses. 
Chico  State:
Game One
After taking care of business with Humboldt State, UCSD had a much 
tougher time against second-seeded Chico State. The Triton o ffense had a quiet 
start compared to its previous game, and its defense didn’t fair much better as it 
allowed the Wildcats to quickly take a 2–0 advantage. 
Refusing to dig themselves into a deeper hole, the Tritons did just enough on 
the o ffensive side to remain competitive, scoring runs in the second and fourth 
innings to brie fly tie the game. Sklencar made her presence known once again, 
hitting the first home run of her college career. However, a fter allowing runs in 
the bottom of the fourth and fifth innings, the Tritons would drop behind 4–2 by 
the end of the fifth.
But, based on the top of the sixth inning, the Triton sluggers didn’t forget how to score: with the bases loaded, sophomore out fielder Kelsi Maday struck gold, 
sending the ball into the stands to add four runs to the score. Heading into the 
final inning, UCSD sat comfortably on a 7–4 advantage, as it could smell a CCAA 
championship berth within reach. Despite allowing one Wildcat run, the Tritons 
closed out the match with a final score of 7–5.
Maday excelled on o ffense with her home run and four RBIs; Clewett led the 
team in hits with two, while also scoring a run. However, senior right-handed 
pitcher Hannah Duarte was credited with the win since she only allowed one hit 
and one run.
“We pitched ourselves into some jams, ” UCSD head coach Patti Gerkens told 
the UCSD athletic department. “We need to close the door. The seventh inning 
shouldn’t be that stressful. ”
CCAA T ournament Championship Game
To complete its outstanding tournament run, all UCSD needed to do was beat 
Chico State for the second time in as many days. 
Down 0–1 at the top of the second inning, the Tritons needed to score quickly 
to prevent the e fficient Chico State o ffense from building a big lead. As it turns 
out, freshman out fielder Caitlyn Weisner knows a thing or two about making 
her hits count. With a player on base, Weisner made the perfect connection and 
knocked it out of the park to take a 2–1 lead. 
The Triton defense did just enough for the next couple innings to hold the 
lead, forcing the Wildcats to leave a total of four players on base in the second and 
third innings. A fterward, the Wildcats tied the game in the fourth inning o ff of 
two well-placed hits, putting the outcome of the game in a realm of uncertainty. 
This could have been worrisome, especially against Chico State’s second-ranked 
batting average and on-base percentage in the conference. 
Of course, Weisner would have none of this — first up to bat at the top of the 
fifth, the freshman slammed another one home to put the Tritons up for good, 
as the Wildcats would never score again. In the following inning, UCSD put up 
another pair of runs for good measure and soon called it a game with a 5–2 win.
Weisner’s stellar game was the standout on the o ffensive side, finishing with 
two home runs, three RBIs, and two runs. Sophomore third-basemen Rachel 
Phillips went a perfect 3–3 at bat and earned an RBI while she was at it. Clewett 
kept up her stellar play with one hit, two runs and one RBI. Duarte was credited 
with the win, only giving up one run. Casillas, Clewett, Maday and Weisner all 
earned spots on the All-Tournament Team, while Maday was crowned CCAA 
Tournament MVP.
After the loss, Chico State fell to 38–14, while the Tritons finished the 
tournament with a 36–19 record and earned an automatic berth to the 
NCAA West Regionals.
With the victory, the Tritons won the CCAA title for just their second 
time, becoming the first fourth-seed in the tournament’s 10 years to win the 
tournament.Written by  Alex Wu // Contributing Writer  
Photos by  Megan Lee // Photo Editor  
‘em
UPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMES5/5
5/5
5/7
5/7
5/9VS Azuza Paci fic
AT CCAA Championships
VS Cal State San Marcos
VS Hawaii Paci fic 
VS Azuza Paci ficSoftball 
Track & Field 
Baseball
W.Tennis
M.Tennis
Heading into the California Collegiate Association Tournament as the underdog, the UCSD so ftball team hoped to turn some 
heads and prove that it is a legitimate contender, even against two top-ranked conference rivals. The Tritons did that and then 
some by going undefeated in the tournament and earning a berth in the NCAA West Regionals.