VOLUME 50, ISSUE 14   MONDA Y , NOVEMBER 7, 2016  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
STATE & LOCAL
ELECTIONS
IT’S EASY TO FORGET THAT 
THERE ARE GOVERNMENT 
POSITIONS TO FILL BEYOND U.S. 
PRESIDENT. WE PROFILED THE 
STATE AND LOCAL CANDIDATES 
THAT WILL BE RELEVANT TO 
UCSD STUDENTS THIS TUESDAY.
ADDICTED  TO  TECH
TWO SHOO-INS  FOR NCAASINV A SIVE WEB  DESIGN
NCAA  WEST  REGIONALSOPINION, P AGE 4
sports,  P age  12
FORECAST
VERBATIM
IN A TECH WORLD LARGELY 
DOMINATED BY A FEW BIG 
BRANDS, LEECO’S ENTRANCE 
INTO THE U.S. MARKET 
USHERS IN A FRESH SENSE 
OF BUDGET-FRIENDLY 
INNOVATION, SOMETHING 
APPLE HAS FAILED tO PROVIDE 
RECENTLY.”
- Alexander Chen
TECH IT OUT
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
TRANSFER STUDENTS  ....2
PROP 64  ......................... 4
Q&A: SCOTT PETERS .......8
CROSSWORD  ................ 10
M. WATER POLO  ............ 12Fea tures,  P AGE  6
ILLUSTRATION BY APRIL GAO / GUARDIAN
MONDAY
H 71 L 58TUESDAY
H 78 L 60
WEDNESDAY
H 84 L 59THURSDAY 
H 80 L 58
UC Regent Norman J. Pattiz 
apologized last Tuesday for sexually 
harassing podcaster Heather 
McDonald after asking to hold her 
breasts. McDonald, who is also a 
comedian and former “Chelsea 
Lately” writer, released the May 
recording of Pattiz’s comments 
during her Oct. 27 podcast on 
“Juicy Scoop, ” according to the Los 
Angeles Times. 
In the episode, Pattiz 
complemented McDonald’s work at 
the PodcastOne studio before she 
began recording a commercial for a 
memory-foam bra. After stumbling 
on the last words, she said to Pattiz, 
“You’re making me nervous, ” to 
which he replied “Wait a minute, 
can I hold your breasts? Would that help?” He also added, “These 
are memory foam,” referring to            
his hands.
 Chair of the Board of Regents 
Monica Lozano explained that 
she intends to bring forward 
new policies that will address the 
behavior of members outside of 
university business.
 “We take the allegations of 
sexual harassment against Regent 
Norman Pattiz very seriously and 
find his comments as reported to be 
inappropriate and highly offensive, ” 
Lozano said in a statement. “We 
cannot tolerate behavior that 
violates the University’s Statement 
of Ethical Values. ”
Gov. Gray Davis appointed Pattiz 
to his post of UC Regent in 2001, 
and Gov. Jerry Brown reappointed 
him to a 12-year term in 2014. Pattiz is also a National Radio 
Hall of Fame inductee, founder 
of radio industry giant Westwood 
One and founder of Courtside 
Entertainment Group, which 
includes PodcastOne. Presidents 
Bill Clinton and George W . Bush 
also appointed Pattiz to sit on the 
board of the Broadcasting Board of 
Governors, which oversees all U.S. 
non-military broadcasting services. 
In her recent podcast, McDonald 
explained that she did not want to 
confront Pattiz at the time because 
she was aware of the potential 
physical danger. 
“I’m very shaky having any 
contact with him, ” she said. “He was 
a reserve sheriff, and he bragged 
that he always had a weapon on 
him at all times — at the office. ”Court Grants 
UCSD Motion 
to Dismiss Koala  
InjunctionCAMPUS
The Koala has 14 days to change 
their request for injunctive 
relief, which would restore the 
newspaper’s university funding.
UCSD and A.S. Council won a 
temporary legal victory on Tuesday 
in the ongoing lawsuit filed against 
them by the ACLU on behalf of the 
satirical student publication, the Koala, 
for deciding to defund all print media 
last November. 
Alleging that its First Amendment 
rights were violated, the Koala sought 
“injunctive relief” in the form of funds 
to continue printing its publication 
while the case is pending. UCSD 
countered the request with a motion 
to dismiss the injunction, which 
was granted by Southern District of 
California Judge Jeffrey Miller. 
The judge presiding over the case 
saw deficiencies in the legal validity 
of the Koala’s argument for injunctive 
relief, and has given the publication 14 
days to amend its claim and try again. 
“In sum, the court denies the 
motion for preliminary injunction, 
grants the motion to dismiss, and 
grants [the Koala] 14 days leave to 
amend, ” Miller stated in his order. 
The Koala’s argument contends 
that the decision by A.S. Council to 
defund print media is unconstitutional, 
violating the Free Press and Free 
Speech clauses of the First Amendment 
by “categorically refusing to provide 
campus activity fee funding for the 
publication of student print media” 
and causing “irreparable harm” to the 
publication as a result.
Reviewing the merits of the Koala’s 
argument, Miller cited the Eleventh 
Amendment, which guarantees that 
states cannot be sued by private 
individuals in federal court, as reason 
for denying their request to continue 
receiving funding while the lawsuit      
is pending. 
Although the defendants in the 
lawsuit are named individuals — 
Chancellor Pradeep Khosla, A.S. 
President Daniel Juarez and A.S. 
Financial Controller Justin Pennish 
— the order states that, since “[The 
Koala] and other Recognized Student 
Organizations who had their funding 
eliminated when the Associated 
Students determined to no longer 
fund any print media request, ” to 
resume funding the Koala would                  
require “direct payments by the state 
from its treasury, ” thus violating the 
Eleventh Amendment. 
David Loy of the ACLU 
Foundation, who is one of two 
attorneys representing the Koala, 
expressed his frustration with                                                                
the decision.
“We are disappointed in the 
court’s ruling, which we believe 
misunderstood both the nature 
of the relief we seek and the First 
Amendment issues at stake, ” Loy told 
the UCSD Guardian. “We intend to 
amend the complaint and pursue an U.S. Legislators Urge Napolitano to Keep UCSF Jobs
Several members of the U.S. House of 
Representatives sent letters to UC President 
Janet Napolitano this past week, requesting 
that she reverse her decision to lay off 17 percent of 
UCSF’s IT workers and outsource those jobs through 
the foreign-based Hindustan Computers Limited 
America firm. UCSD Chancellor Pradeep Khosla sits 
on the board of HCL, along with UC Berkeley’s Dean 
of Engineering Shankar Sastry.
The University of California entered into a $50 
million agreement in September that would extend 
over five years. According to the agreement, HCL 
will be responsible for providing IT services such 
as data center monitoring, storage, server and 
other operations when the current IT workers take 
their leave in February after training their foreign 
replacements. It is unknown if the foreign workers 
will hold visas, but HCL is an H-1B dependent firm 
due to the fact that 15 percent or more of their U.S. 
employees are in the country with such visas. An H-1B is a nonimmigrant visa for the temporary 
employment of workers in specialty positions.
Napolitano received two separate letters — one on 
Nov. 1 from Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) and one on 
Nov. 3 co-authored by Reps. Barbara Lee (D-Calif.) 
and Mark DeSaulnier (D-Calif.) — each urging 
her to reconsider this current plan, which would 
replace 80 of UCSF’s tech employees. The UCSD 
Guardian obtained copies of these letters on Nov. 3 
and 4 from a member of UPTE-CWA 9119, a union 
that represents healthcare, technical and research 
employees throughout the UC system. 
Rep. Lofgren begins her letter by suggesting 
that given Napolitano’s history as secretary of the 
Department of Homeland Security, she should 
understand that using foreign workers to replace 
current American ones violates the purpose of     
H-1B visas.
“Based on your service as the secretary of 
Homeland Security, the department with principal B y  Lauren   hol t   News editorTHE VILLAGE
UC Regent Apologizes for Harassing Podcast Host
Norman J. Pattiz made sexual comments about podcaster Heather McDonald while on her show.  See NAPOLITANO , page 3
UC SYSTEM
By  l i sa  c h i k
senior staff writer
See KOALA  , page 3 See REGENT  , page 3
BY   m a t t h e w  z a m u d i o
editorial assistant
At about 1:30 p.m. yesterday, first responders rushed to the Village in response to a fire on the ninth floor of the East T ower. One person was 
taken to the Hillcrest Medical Center for burns. Authorities are still investigating the incident. Photo by Patrick Lazo /UCSD Guardian
UC SYSTEM
“
2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 7, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
TRIUMPHANT By Alex Liang
DO YOU TWEET? WE DO!
@UCSDGua rdianThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian 
is not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts 
or art. The views expressed herein do not necessarily 
represent the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University 
of California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is 
funded by advertising. 
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Caroline Lee
Marketing Director
Peter McInnis
Training and Development Manager
Allison Kubo
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Tina Butoiu
Jacky To
Marcus Thuillier
Lauren Holt
Quinn Pieper
Rosina Garcia
Alex Wu
Oliver Kelton
Tia Ikemoto
Sam Velazquez
Naftali Burakovsky
Brittney Lu
Christian Duarte
Joselynn Ordaz
Aleya Zenieris
Kenji Bennett
Ayat Amin
Christina Carlson
Sophia Huang
Sage Schubert ChristianEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Sports Associate Editor
Features Editor
Features Associate Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Multimedia Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editors
Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Aleya Zenieris, Quinn Pieper
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim, Alicia Ho, Lisa Chik
Editorial Assistants
Nathaniel Walker, Lisa Chik, Miguel ShekerThe University of California 
has extended the Fall 2017 transfer 
student application deadline from 
November to Jan. 3 to give applicants 
more preparation time. The change 
was announced on Oct. 31 and will 
be implemented across all nine 
UC campuses with undergraduate 
programs. The extended deadline 
will not apply to impacted                                            
major programs. 
UC President Janet Napolitano 
believes the decision to extend 
the submission deadline will                     
help transfer applicants in the 
application process.
“Additional time will help 
hardworking, eligible students 
across the state give their best shot 
at applying to UC [campuses],” 
Napolitano said in a press release.
In addition to the deadline 
extension, the UC system boosted the number of Transfer Pathways, 
a set of course expectations meant 
to prepare applicants for their 
major. Transfer Pathways do not 
guarantee admission, but they do 
assist incoming transfer students in 
graduating on time.
The extended submission 
deadline and the revamped Transfer 
Pathways program align with the 
UC system’s goal to enroll one 
new transfer student for every two 
freshmen, although priority will still 
be given to California community 
college students in order to boost 
the enrollment of in-state applicants. 
Transfer students make up 
nearly one third of the population 
of incoming undergraduates,               
and 92 percent of them                                    
come from California community 
college campuses.
Eleanor Roosevelt College 
junior Melissa Vajanaphanich, 
who transferred from an out-of-
state, four-year university after one year of attendance, recalled the 
qualms she experienced during her    
application process.
“One of the deans of admissions 
suggested I wait for the next cycle or 
even drop out and attend community 
college, after emphasizing my lack 
of qualifications,” Vajanaphanich 
told the UCSD Guardian. “In my 
opinion, by extending the deadline, 
[the UC system] would be on par 
with most other institutions whose 
deadlines occur in January or 
February, allowing students ample 
time to explore and evaluate their 
best course of action which, in 
turn, would create a more diverse 
applicant pool. ”
The application opens Aug. 1, 
allowing students to choose when to 
submit their applications. However, 
UC data shows that those who 
applied during November last year 
were more likely to be admitted                                                                  
than those who applied during the 
extension. All transfer applications are 
reviewed at the same time, but some 
majors will fill up with those who 
apply during the priority period. 
Therefore, it’s still recommended 
that applicants apply by the     
original deadline.
Vajanaphanich stated that 
department and college advisors 
were instrumental in guiding her 
academic career, allowing her to 
add a second major without staying 
an extra year. She suggests transfer 
students take advantage of the 
available facilities.
“I feel like a lot of students try 
to do everything by themselves 
or without asking upperclassmen 
for advice,” said Vajanaphanich. 
“There are so many resources 
at our fingertips that we often                   
forget about. ”UC System Extends the Application Period for Transfer Students
The postponement of the application submisssion deadline will apply to all UC campuses and majors, excluding impacted majors.UC SYSTEM
BY  M i n g - R a y  L i a o
contributing Writer
Ming-Ra y LIAO  m4liao@ucsd.edu
l i k e    u s 
               o n   f b 
@UCSDGUARDIANappellate review that might become 
necessary if the trial court does not 
ultimately rule in our favor. ”
“If we prevail, the student 
government would be required to 
reinstate the process for the student 
press to seek campus activity funding 
on the same basis as other student 
organizations, ” he added.
San Diego attorney and UCSD 
alumnus Daniel W atts also voiced his 
discontent with the court’s decision 
to dismiss the Koala’s request for 
injunctive relief.  
“The court completely ignores the 
Koala’s argument that the A.S. Council 
treated the press differently than other 
forms of media, ” W atts said. “The judge 
appears to have confused ‘freedom of 
the press’ with ‘freedom of speech, ’ 
and treated them as one and the same, 
when they’re actually distinct claims. ” 
A vehement supporter of the 
Koala’s decision to sue the A.S. Council 
on First Amendment grounds, W atts 
believes the Koala is in the right and 
should emerge the victor of the lawsuit 
in time. 
“The Koala’s next step is to amend 
the complaint to clarify its claims, ” he 
said. “They need to explain to the judge 
how the facts they’ve alleged show that 
the A.S. Council discriminated against 
the Koala based on its content or 
viewpoint, or how they discriminated 
against newspapers simply because 
they’re newspapers. ” 
Revelle College freshman V alerie 
Garcia sees the setback for the Koala 
as a step in the right direction, one                                        
that may compel the satirical 
publication to become a self-funded 
student newspaper.
“Frankly, I’m satisfied with the 
judge’s decision to deny the Koala’s 
motion,” Garcia said. “If such a 
newspaper is genuinely committed 
to the purpose of journalism, they 
should continue their work as a self-
funded newspaper. ” Garcia also believes the A.S. 
Council’s decision to defund student 
print media was directly intended 
to affect the Koala, a justifiable and 
deliberate choice meant to hamper the 
circulation of hurtful language, rather 
than suppress free speech.
“The fact that A.S. Council does not 
want to continue funding [The Koala] 
demonstrates UCSD’s willingness to 
stop hateful, racist, discriminatory 
media, at least on campus, ” she told 
the UCSD Guardian. “This past week 
we had students writing with chalk 
all over campus their support for a 
politician who uses hate speech. It is 
freedom of speech and we must respect 
it, but having a newspaper that spreads 
even more racism across campus and 
demands funds from the university 
seems unacceptable. ”
On Nov. 15 — the deadline for 
the Koala’s amended motion for 
injunctive relief — the lawsuit will 
resume, with UCSD likely responding 
by filing another motion to dismiss 
the Koala’s request for injunctive relief,              
W atts explained. 
“If UCSD is successful, the Koala 
will probably be given another chance 
to amend its complaint, ” he said. “The 
parties will keep doing this dance 
until the Koala files a version of the 
complaint that the judge likes. Then 
the real work will begin: depositions, 
written interrogatories, and possibly 
a trial. ” 
However, if the judge accepts none 
of the Koala’s motions for relief, “the 
university will have won — and the 
Koala’s only option would be to appeal 
to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, ” 
according to Watts.
When asked to comment on the 
lawsuit for this article, A.S. President 
Daniel Juarez said in an email, “I have 
no comments regarding the lawsuit at 
this moment or anytime in the future. ” 
The Koala didn’t return requests  
for comment. jurisdiction over immigration, I am 
sure you know that using the H-1B 
category to replace the University’s 
IT staff would be a misuse of this 
visa category, ” Lofgren wrote. “The 
H-1B’s intended purpose is to 
promote American competitiveness 
by providing access for U.S. 
employers to highly-skilled foreign 
nationals needed to fill critical skills 
shortages. It is meant to supplement 
— not replace — the American 
workforce. ”
DeSaulnier and Lee echoed 
Lofgren’s statement on the 
intention of H-1B visas in their 
letter and expressed their additional 
worries regarding the economic 
ramifications and potential conflicts 
of interests involved.
“This move has potential 
negative consequences not only on 
jobs and the local economy but calls into question the responsibilities 
of public institutions that receive 
taxpayer funding, ” the two legislators 
stated. “Furthermore, we are 
concerned about the fact that both 
UC San Diego’s chancellor and UC 
Berkeley’s dean of engineering sit on 
the board of HCL, raising questions 
about conflicts of interests. ”
Lofgren also addressed the 
possibility that this change could 
harm UCSF’s patients as well, 
explaining that “the University of 
California’s outsourcing plan raises 
serious public policy concerns 
related to ensuring patient safety 
and safeguarding patient privacy. 
Missteps in these areas could 
expose the University to significant 
litigation risks. ”
While the agreement is currently 
only being applied at UCSF, the 
UC system could implement its 
contract with HCL at any of its 
10 campuses, which enroll a total of 240,000 students and employ 
190,000 faculty and staff. According 
to Computerworld, UCSF estimates 
that this contract, along with other 
vendor contracts, will save $30 
million over the course of the five-
year contract.
DeSaulnier, Lee and Lofgren 
all closed their letters by explicitly 
stating that they “urge [Napolitano] 
to reconsider” her plan to outsource 
IT jobs, but DeSaulnier and Lee 
additionally requested that they be 
provided with “full documentation 
of the shortage of workers in this 
area that led to the decision to 
hire HCL and lay off dozens of 
employees. ”
The UCSD Guardian reached out 
to Rep. Lofgren’s office and the UC 
Office of the President. However, 
they were unable to comment by 
press time.   
After switching to Wondery, 
an audio-on-demand media 
network, McDonald explained 
that she delayed publicizing the 
story because she thought it was                                                                             
no longer necessary, she wanted to 
protect her career, and she blamed 
herself. 
“Once I was able to get all my 
listeners [back], I thought, well, 
I’m not going to tell the story now 
because I got what I wanted — 
not what I wanted, what I was 
entitled to, ” she said. “I was totally 
entitled to [keeping my content 
and subscribers]. … I don’t want 
to look like I’m difficult to work with, [and] I felt like because I 
was talking kind of edgy and dirty 
on the radio, and I don’t dress the 
most conservatively, and he’s old, I 
felt like ‘Oh, alright, ’ but I knew it 
was wrong. ” 
Pattiz told the Los Angeles 
Times he “deeply regrets” his 
comment to McDonald.
“There is no excuse for any such 
comments or making anyone feel 
uncomfortable, ” Pattiz said. “If I did 
that, I sincerely apologize, and it will 
be a valuable learning experience. ”
Other former employees and 
independent contractors testified 
to Pattiz’s frequent sexual remarks, 
according to the Los Angeles 
Times. Ji Min Park left PodcastOne because she was uncomfortable 
with Pattiz saying she was the 
“hottest Asian” he’ d ever seen and 
said, “If I wasn’t married, I’ d be 
chasing you down a hallway right 
now. ” Former PodcastOne producer 
Raymond Hernandez also heard 
Pattiz commenting on women’s 
bodies and even offering to show 
revealing photos of a PodcastOne 
female executive on his phone. 
UCSD Women’s Commission 
and AVP of Diversity, Equity 
and Inclusion did not respond to 
requests for comment. NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 7, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
ASCE.UCSD. EDUFor mo re information, contact ASCE at
avpconcerts@ucsd .edu or (858) 534-0 477▶ REGENT,  from page 1▶ NAPOLITANO,  from page 1 ▶ KOALA,  from page 1
McDonald Delayed Publicizing The Incident to Protect Her CareerRepresentatives Ask Napolitano to Prove a Local Worker Shortage Exists Watts: T he Court Ignored Koala’s Argument
lisa chik lchik@ucsd.edulauren hol t lcholt@ucsd.edu
ma tthew zamudio  m1zamudi@ucsd.edu4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 7, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
QUINN PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
As augmented reality becomes 
more popular, genetic engineering 
makes breakthroughs in medicine and 
autonomous cars take the industry 
by storm, it is needless to say that 
technology is making profound 
cultural and historical impacts. Y et, 
the immense presence of tech in our 
lives brings confusion surrounding 
how the users can respond to its 
negative implications. Either we 
connect to the world and get sucked 
into our gadgets, or we disconnect 
and lose the benefits of instant 
networks. As technology is designed 
with the intention of keeping users 
addicted, users are psychologically 
coerced into engaging in the mania. 
Improvements in design principles, 
as well as critical measures that 
companies should take to protect 
users from addiction, are top priority. 
Addiction to technology is 
described as an impulse control disorder, and its pervasiveness in 
modern society is only growing. 
As noted by the Kaiser Family 
Foundation in a 2013 study, 75 
percent of children under 8 years 
old have access to a mobile device. 
Technology has also been the focus 
of health research, particularly 
regarding its net negative impact. 
The American Academy of Pediatrics 
has produced guidelines to help 
children avoid emotional health 
issues, poor sleep quality and obesity 
due to technology abuse. However, 
a recent paper published by UCSD 
researchers asserts that time spent on 
Facebook could be associated with 
longer lifespan due to the positive 
effects of social interactions. The 
vast amount of research on this topic 
exemplifies our view of technology 
as a cornerstone of health. Design 
improvements are more urgent than 
ever, given its lasting prevalence in our lives.
Many contend that new 
technology is merely another form 
of entertainment and is criticized 
simply because of its novelty. People 
eventually adapt. However, because 
technology is unique in that it is 
designed to be addictive, companies 
have an ethical obligation to protect 
users from abuse. The Atlantic, in 
discussion with design ethicist and 
co-founder of advocacy group Time 
Well Spent Tristan Harris, describes 
the persuasive tactics of tech as 
equivalent to “pumping sugar, salt, 
and fat into junk food in order to 
induce bingeing. ” Silicon V alley 
veteran Josh Elman even compared 
the tech industry to the tobacco 
industry: willing to fuel addictions 
while inflicting serious damage to 
consumers’ health. The philosophy 
behind new design standards should 
be simple: help users accomplish their goals while simultaneously being 
able to disconnect without anxiety. 
Unfortunately, most technology is 
designed with another intention in 
mind: addiction.
Most technologies, from gaming 
to social media to email, implement 
the Hook Model, which actively 
creates habits for users to continue 
using the product and get “hooked. ” 
Harris explained this model further, 
stating that in order to respond to 
a friend request, users pass a news 
feed of photos and auto-play videos. 
The friend request tab will suggest 
“people you may know, ” and quickly 
the bright red notifications hook the 
user through social obligation. One 
cognitive reinforcement associated 
with the Hook Model, as studied by 
psychologist B.F . Skinner, is variable 
schedule of rewards. Skinner observed BY AARTHI VENKAT // EDITORIAL ASSISTANT
ILLUSTRATION BY QUINN PIEPERThough some social media apps may seem addictive 
in nature, it is through strategic designs that 
developers keep us hooked. Can there be a middle 
ground between disconnecting completely and 
subscribing to their invasive designs?Silicon 
Valley’s 
Invisible 
HandALEXANDER CHEN
ALC129@ucsd.eduTECH   IT  OUT
LeEco Makes 
Echoing 
Entrance
In a tech world largely dominated 
by a few big brands, LeEco’s entrance 
into the U.S. market ushers in a fresh 
sense of budget-friendly innovation, 
something Apple has failed to provide 
recently. The Chinese company, 
which began as a video streaming 
service in China, has expanded its 
product offering to include TVs, 
phones and even bikes. To put this 
into perspective, imagine if Netflix made 
hardware such as TVs, phones and bikes, 
and began to sell these offerings in China. 
Each of LeEco’s product offerings, 
with the exception of the Super Bike, 
seems to largely focus more on the 
service rather than the hardware 
products themselves. LeEco phones 
come preloaded with the company’s 
streaming software as do LeEco 
TVs. Like Amazon Prime, LeEco is 
pushing EcoPass, a subscription-based 
service that allows for the streaming 
of certain content, five GB of cloud 
storage and priority access to sales on 
the LeEco Mall website. 
LeEco has recently made news 
due to its announcement of two 
smartphones, the Le Pro3 and LeS3, 
both of which run on Android and 
compete in the budget smartphone 
market. With 64GB of storage, the 
Le Pro3 is $399 with a $100 rebate, 
dropping the effective price to $299. 
In comparison, the Samsung Galaxy 
Note 7 costs $849 while including the 
same 64GB of storage. The iPhone 7 
has only half the storage space and 
costs $649. As LeEco’s flagship phone, 
it includes the same Qualcomm 
Snapdragon 821 processor that comes 
in higher-end Android devices and 
includes 4GB of RAM, twice as much 
as the iPhone. It comes with a 1080p 
Full-HD 5.5-inch display, a massive 
4070 mAh battery and a 16 MP back 
camera accompanied with an 8MP 
front facing camera. 
LeEco’s 4K TVs bring similar 
affordable innovation and come in 
43” , 55” and 65” models, with the 65” 
TV costing $1399 before the $200 
rebate. In comparison, a Samsung 4K 
65” TV costs $1699.99. At almost half 
the price, the LeEco Super4 X65 Ecotv 
makes minimal compromises and is 
truly a great value at its price point. 
Plus, since LeEco purchased Vizio for 
$2 billion earlier this year, LeEco has 
acquired one of the big names within 
the TV industry and is making use of it.
Further expanding the world of 
personal electronics, LeEco is also 
working on a smart bike variant for 
the United States. The LeEco bike is 
something truly unique, featuring 
laser lane markers that depict lines 
on either side of the bike, a futuristic 
design, a built-in computer that runs 
Android and tracks workouts, GPS 
location and much more, making 
LeEco to bikes what Tesla is to cars. 
As a newcomer in the U.S. market, 
LeEco’s low prices reflect the difficulty 
of breaking into a new market with 
already-established market leaders 
such as Apple, Samsung, Google, LG, 
etc. In the end, more competition 
ultimately benefits the consumer as 
it gives consumers a wider variety 
of options and forces companies to 
innovate in order to earn their market 
share. So watch out tech companies 
— as LeEco is releasing the current 
generation of “ Apple” products, 
Apple’s product offerings seems to fall 
further and further behind.One of the most widely-
discussed issues on California’s 
ballot box this coming Tuesday 
is Proposition 64. The proposal 
regards whether or not marijuana 
should be legalized for recreational 
use. Formally titled the Control, 
Regulate and Tax Adult Use of 
Marijuana Act, Prop 64 will allow 
citizens over 21 years of age to 
legally carry an ounce of marijuana 
or up to eight grams of concentrated 
cannabis. Additionally, the measure 
will allow Californians to legally 
cultivate as many as six marijuana 
plants for their personal use.  
California is the largest of five 
states considering the matter this 
November, alongside Massachusetts, 
Arizona, Nevada and Maine. 
Other states like Florida, Montana, 
Arkansas and North Dakota will 
hold a similar vote, but on whether 
cannabis can be used for solely 
medicinal purposes. A bill like this 
has never had enough momentum 
to pass and as such, there are 
rational arguments being made from 
both sides of the issue. But now is 
finally the time. The proposition 
will better define, and even solidify, 
a fundamental aspect of California’s 
cultural identity and economy.  Rolling Down & Out
The main arguments against 
Prop 64 stem from the fear of the 
unknown, illustrating a conservative 
value of better protecting one’s family 
and the greater community. 
Regarding wellness, the “No 
On 64” campaign cites a report 
from UC San Francisco stating that 
the proposal “contains minimal 
protections for public health. ” It is 
argued that legalizing marijuana also 
increases the chances that people will 
drive under the influence and thus 
be a danger on the roads. This fear 
against recreational marijuana use is 
justified to some extent, as driving 
accidents involving marijuana use 
have increased in Colorado. However, 
the data supporting this outcome is 
not exactly clear-cut. Furthermore, 
an early study on marijuana use 
and its effects on driving found that 
“impairment is typically manifested 
by subjects decreasing their driving 
speed. ” Personally, I would much 
rather have people drive slower on the 
roads than the opposite.
Some also claim that the potential 
expansion of marijuana use concerns 
addiction. However, Michael T affe, 
associate professor at the Scripps Research Institute in La Jolla, found that 
dependence on marijuana is around 
nine percent whereas other drugs have 
dependencies in the double digits.
The Case for Cannabis
Outweighing arguments 
that California needs more time 
to formulate a better plan for 
legalization, though, are the plentiful 
benefits that Prop 64 will bring. 
Most importantly, marijuana will 
be decriminalized and Californians 
will no longer be incarcerated for 
minor marijuana-related drug 
offenses. This is an encouraging 
potential development especially 
for communities of color, who are 
disproportionately targeted for drug 
arrests and face punishments far 
greater than is deserved. Michelle 
Alexander, a law professor and 
civil rights activist, points out that 
“mass incarceration operates as a 
tightly networked system of laws, 
policies, customs, and institutions 
that operate collectively to ensure the 
subordinate status of a group defined 
largely by race. ” Decriminalizing 
marijuana will hopefully go a long 
way in helping to deconstruct some 
of these institutional barriers. Having fewer people in prison is good for 
individual communities, puts less 
burden on taxpayers and benefits 
the state of California as a whole. 
Prop 64 is supported by California’ s 
chapter of the NAACP , the California 
Medical Association, former Facebook 
President Sean Parker, Lieutenant 
Governor Gavin Newsom and House 
Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi.
Additionally, marijuana will be 
treated similarly to alcohol, and 
the drug will be heavily controlled, 
regulated and taxed. The state Finance 
Director Michael Cohen noted that 
this will reduce taxpayer costs by 
tens of millions annually. It will also 
raise as much as $1 billion in new 
taxes which will go towards teen drug 
prevention, law enforcement training 
and supporting the communities 
most negatively impacted by the the 
current legal treatment of marijuana 
and those convicted for its use.
Criticisms against the proposition 
are justified. I don’t like every detail 
about the proposal but compromise 
is necessary, and, all in all, additional 
tax revenue and decriminalization 
will be immeasurably beneficial to the 
state of California. This alone grossly 
outweighs the potential harm that may 
be caused. Why Proposition 64 Should Puff, Puff, PassSee ADDICTION , page 5LIVELIHOOD • CLASSES • WORK EMAILS • GROUP CHAT • PROJECT •LIVELIHOOD
NICK VACCHIO // CONTRIBUTING WRITER, PROSPECT JOURNALOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 7, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
Thursday
November 10
PC Theater | 7pmFor questions,
contact aeuabank@ucsd.edu
LIKE US ON
 FACEBOOK
facebook.com/ucsdguardianWORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
that lab mice who received variable 
rewards — either a small treat, large 
treat or nothing at all —  when 
they pressed a lever, would do so 
compulsively. Similarly, social media 
notifications appear on no schedule, 
so constant checking is inevitable. 
While time spent on a notification 
may seem negligible, UC Irvine 
researchers have shown that, when 
interrupted, most people take 25 
minutes to return to their work.
Shifting the purpose of tech away 
from addiction is necessary. Such 
changes to existing models would 
offer visibility to the users’ abuse of 
products, lending to consciousness 
in choices. Harris elucidates several 
design prototypes on how companies 
can intervene. One of these is time consciousness, in which your phone 
alerts you to how you spent your time, 
such as the number of times you have 
unlocked your phone in an hour. 
Harris also specified a “focus mode” 
to pause incoming emails during 
important tasks. Ultimately, it should 
the responsibility of companies to 
ensure that their software designs are 
not abusing users.
At the same time, users play a 
large role in changing mindsets and 
bringing awareness to technology 
addictions. Users, in Harris’ words, 
should get “riled up about the ways 
they’re being manipulated. ” Users 
could also implement conscious 
efforts to reduce device use. Many 
technology moguls are notoriously 
low-tech as parents. According to The 
New Y ork Times, Steve Jobs, former 
CEO of Apple, would not allow his young children to use an iPad, and 
Chris Anderson, chief executive of 
3D Robotics, instituted time limits 
and parental controls on devices. 
Ali Partovi, co-founder of Code.org, 
emphasized the distinction between 
“consuming, ” such as watching 
Y ouTube or playing games, and 
“creating, ” such as making computer 
art, editing movies or programming. 
This distinction is key in why it is 
so difficult to consciously disengage 
from technology. With so much to 
offer, technology has incredible power. 
Y et, the choice between connecting 
and disconnecting does not have to 
be black and white. Instead, we can be 
deliberate in our decisions and hold 
value to the time spent on our devices.
AARTHI VENKA T      AVENKAT@UCSD.EDU▶ ADDICTED, from page 46 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | NOVEMBER 7, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
OLIVER KEL TON
features@ucsdguardian.org
DOUG  APPLEGA TE
TONI A TKINSD A R R E L L   I S S A 
JOHN RENISON  Doug Applegate is the Democratic newcomer to the 
District 49 race, challenging Republican incumbent 
Darrell Issa. Applegate was the first in his family to 
graduate from college, getting both a B.A. in econom -
ics and a law degree from the University of Arizona. 
Applegate served in the Marine Corps for 32 years, at 
one point attaining the rank of colonel. A fter leaving 
the Marine Corps in 2006, Applegate became a civilian 
trial attorney.
As a retired marine colonel, a major focus of Apple -
gate’s platform is improving veteran a ffairs, speci fi-
cally by creating a better healthcare system and more 
job opportunities for veterans. Applegate has a fairly 
progressive platform, arguing to defend Social Security 
and Medicare, oppose the Trans Paci fic Partnership, 
support the 2013 immigration bill, fix the A ffordable 
Care Act and focus more on developing renewable 
energy. In addition, Applegate plans to take action on 
women’s issues and the issues of the LGBTQ commu -
nity. He acknowledges that the LGBTQ community still 
faces much systemic discrimination and plans to sup -
port legislation to combat it. When it comes to women’s 
rights, he is pro-choice and promises to fight for equal 
pay for women. As both a military veteran and a law -
yer, Applegate assures that he can use his expertise to 
both reform the criminal justice system and help create 
an effective foreign policy, advocating for more diplo -
macy and fewer troops on the ground when possible.
Students voting in the 49th District might like 
Applegate because of his aforementioned support for 
women and the LGBTQ community. He also believes 
we should move toward renewable energy, citing the 
military’s plan to go 50 percent renewable by 2050 as an 
example for the rest of the U.S. to adopt. 
Prior to being elected into the California State Assembly, 
Toni Atkins received a bachelor’s degree in political 
science from Emory and Henry College and completed 
a senior executive program from Harvard University’s 
John F. Kennedy School of Government. She served on 
San Diego’s city council between 2000 and 2008 before 
going on to represent District 78 as a Democrat in the 
State Assembly, starting in 2010. While in o ffice, Atkins 
served as Majority Whip from 2011 to 2014 before 
being unanimously elected as Speaker of the Assembly 
in 2014, a position she held for three months before 
being replaced by the current Speaker, Anthony Rendon 
(D-San Diego). A fter nearly six years in the California 
State Assembly, Atkins is now running for California 
State Senate in District 39. In the primary elections held 
in June, Atkins won the majority with 66 percent of the 
vote compared to her current opponent, Republican John 
Renison, who received the second highest vote count at 
18 percent.
According to her o fficial website, Atkins’ platform 
covers issues ranging from education and healthcare to 
the rights of women, veterans and the LGBT community. 
Her education platform focuses on increasing the general 
fund for California education to a record high of $14.8 
billion, passing the Dream Act, forming a committee to 
address sexual assault on college campuses and increasing 
enrollment within the UC and CSU systems. As the first 
openly gay California Speaker of the Assembly, Atkins 
seeks to support the LGBT community by creating 
transgender options for o fficial California records and 
adding language within anti-discrimination laws to 
reflect all gender identities. Her platform for women’s 
rights mainly addresses increased support for victims 
of domestic abuse and calls for an increase in funding 
for child care services in San Diego. Atkins’ healthcare 
position centers around support for HIV-positive 
patients and expanding access to MediCal. She helped 
lock down an extra $3 million in annual funding for the 
Country Veterans Services and has secured millions in 
funding for San Diego’s homeless, veteran and low-
income populations. Atkins also seeks to further boost 
San Diego’s economy, having already helped create a 
fisherman’s market in the area and pledging to support 
local businesses. Finally, Atkins is endorsed by the 
California League of Conservation Voters for her work 
in promoting Southern California water conservation 
projects.Republican Darrell Issa has been the District 49 
congressman since 2000. Issa is a self-made millionaire 
and is commonly referred to as the richest man in 
Congress. Before becoming a businessman, Issa was 
enlisted in the U.S. Army and reached the rank of 
captain before the end of his service. A fterward, Issa 
was the CEO of Directed Electronics, a company 
he founded and built to become one of the largest 
manufacturers of vehicle anti-the ft devices in the 
country. Recently, Issa has gained notoriety for his 
vocal support of his party’s presidential candidate, 
Donald Trump.
When it comes to policy, Trump and Issa have a 
lot in common. Overall, Issa wants less government 
regulation so that businesses can have more freedom to 
grow. He advocates for fewer taxes for small businesses 
and strongly opposes the A ffordable Care Act. Issa 
doesn’t place a lot of importance on renewable energy 
and instead wants an “all of the above” energy solution, 
in which fossil fuels continue to be exploited while 
renewable resources are developed on the side. Issa 
supported the Keystone XL Pipeline and doesn’t believe 
the government has the right to dictate the energy 
marketplace. In regards to technology, Issa was in 
favor of keeping the internet open but was also against 
the Stop Online Piracy Act. Issa also plans to support 
military veterans by addressing the veteran claims 
backlog, providing more military autism coverage 
and helping create the VA Aspire Center in Old Town 
San Diego — a site that would be dedicated to helping 
veterans reintegrate into civilian life. 
Issa has consistently opposed President Obama’s 
policies while also heading congressional committees 
tasked with investigating Benghazi and the president’s 
birth certi ficate.
John Renison is the founder and CEO of Piggyback 
Technologies, Inc., a delivery service created in 2014 that 
allows e-retailers to ship and deliver their products to 
customers within 24 hours. He is also the current CEO 
of Britton Customhouse Brokers, a position he has held 
since 1995. Although he has not had a formal collegiate 
education, he has completed certi fication from Boston 
University’s Legal Studies program and a negotiation 
program run by the Tu fts-MIT-Harvard consortium. His 
experience in running small businesses feeds directly 
into his platform as the Republican candidate for State 
Senator of District 39.
Although his o fficial website omits speci fic language 
dictating his policy proposals, Renison’s platform boasts 
three main points: maintaining public safety by keeping 
criminals in prison, reducing taxes to support growing 
business and fostering the growth of startups and small 
businesses.
Students interested in entrepreneurship may be 
attracted to his plans to cut taxes and promote startups. 
However, he does not specify his stances on social issues 
such as LGBT rights, women’s rights, etc. He also has not 
discussed his stance on education, but he does emphasize 
his reputation as a community-oriented figure.By Ayat Amin / / Contributing Writer
By Tia Ikemoto / / Associate Features EditorC O N G R E S S I O N A L   
DISTRICT  49
ST A TE SENA TE
DISTRICT 39
Several aspects of her platform directly a ffect 
students at UCSD. Atkins seeks to increase enrollment 
in the UC system, a proposal that will pump more 
students into an already over flowing school system. 
Although Atkins is pushing for a record $14.8 billion in 
state education funding, she does not specify how much 
the UC system would obtain. She instead pledged $12 
million to San Diego State University and $7.4 million 
to the San Marcos Uni fied School District. She does 
describe a general fund of $62.3 million to promote an 
increase in the number of full-time faculty at California 
colleges, speci fically allocating $2.6 million to the San 
Diego Community College district. On the other hand, 
Atkins fiercely defends LGBT students’ rights, pushing 
schools to establish gender-neutral bathrooms for 
transgender students and to allocate funding for gender-
identity education.TODD GLORIA
Todd Gloria, the city councilman for San Diego’s District 3 since 
2008, has been a constant presence in San Diego politics for the past 
decade. The San Diego native graduated from University of San Diego 
in 2000 and started getting involved in city government as a housing 
commissioner in 2005. Since 2011, he has served as the council’s 
chair of the Budget and Government E fficiency Committee, where he 
has helped manage the city’s finances. He also chairs the SANDAG 
transit committee and is chair pro tempore of the Metropolitan Transit 
Committee. Most notably, he served as interim mayor of San Diego 
from 2013 to 2014 a fter Bob Filner resigned.
Throughout his time in the city council, Gloria has made it 
a priority to combat homelessness and housing security. He has 
supported the construction of thousands of a ffordable housing units 
and the creation of a permanent, year-round homeless shelter. If elected 
to the state assembly, Gloria promises to also pay attention to the needs 
of those in what he calls the “middle band” of people who face housing 
difficulties — those who are well-o ff enough not to qualify for subsidies 
but who still do not have the means to find a ffordable housing. This 
is particularly relevant to students at UCSD, who o ften have di fficulty 
finding o ff-campus housing in the pricey La Jolla area. Gloria is also 
upset that the state government eliminated redevelopment agencies 
in 2011, which he says has hindered local e fforts to create a ffordable 
housing. He hopes to bring the state back into the a ffordable housing 
game to help combat the problem of unsheltered homeless people 
statewide. S T A T E  A S S E M B L Y  
DISTRICT  78
KEVIN MEL TON
Born in Los Angeles in 1964, Kevin Melton began his political career 
much later in life than his opponent. A fter graduating from Cal State 
Dominguez Hills, Melton pursued several career paths in the private 
sector, working as a salesman at an information systems company, an 
advertising broker and as an associate publisher for the elderly-targeted 
publication Senior Life. Following unsuccessful runs for Los Angeles 
city council in 2003 and 2007, he moved to San Diego in 2008, where 
he got involved with Kevin Faulconer’s 2013 mayoral campaign as a 
member of his campaign finance committee. In 2014, he was defeated in 
the District 78 state assembly race against Toni Atkins, making this his 
second attempt at the same o ffice. As of 2016, Melton has never been 
elected to any government position.
In his brief candidate statement, Melton touches on standard 
Republican talking points: lowering taxes, decreasing business 
regulations and reducing government spending. He also mentions 
spending more on schools and creating more programs for senior 
citizens and veterans, though he does not specify what those would 
be speci fically. One interesting campaign promise he has made is to 
donate $50,000 of his salary to local classrooms to show his support for 
improving education. In general, Melton appears to have not prepared a 
substantive platform, and his resume pales in comparison to Gloria’s.
By Oliver Kelton // Features Editor
ELECTIONS :
CALIFORNIA
   & SAN
   DIEGOFEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | NOVEMBER 7, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
C3 IoT is Hiring the Brightest Minds in
DATA SCIENCE
C3 IoT is meeting a fast-growing demand for machine-learning IoT applications that enable 
organizations in data-intensive industries to use real-time performance monitoring and 
predictive analytics to optimize business processes, differentiate products and services, and 
create new revenue streams. C3 IoT is a comprehensive Platform as a Service (PaaS) for the 
rapid design, development, deployment, and operation of next-generation IoT applications.     
www.c3iot.comAre you ready to:
Discover, develop, and implement the next generation of big data analytics
Tackle huge data sets employing the latest technologies for industrial-scale projects and 
global customers
Enable enterprise customers to embrace data-driven predictions and decision making
Work with an internationally-recognized team of IT, software, and data science experts
Join a high-growth enterprise software company in the heart of Silicon Valley
Make an impact and have fun doing what you love, while building your ideal career“C3 IoT has developed some of the most sophisticated applications
of machine learning and forecasting techniques for today’s 
modern enterprise systems.
            — S. Shankar Sastry,  Dean, College of Engineering, University of California, Berkeley
”
APPLY TODAY:
View position details
and submit resume:
c3iot.com/careersKAMALA  HARRIS
LORETT A SANCHEZAt this point, the race for one of California’s Senate seats is not 
much of a race at all, with Harris carrying a 17 percent lead 
in the most recent USC Dornsife/LA Times poll. Still, UCSD 
students should be aware of both candidates’ backgrounds 
and platforms. Kamala Harris has been the attorney general 
of California since 2011; she previously worked as a district 
attorney for Alameda County, where she focused on child sexual 
assault cases, and later as a city attorney for San Francisco. 
Even though both are Democrats, Harris and Sanchez’s 
priorities and goals show clear di fferences. In a Q&A with the 
Los Angeles Times, when each of the candidates was asked what 
legislation they intended to file in their first years, Harris stated 
that she hopes to make community college free for those whose 
income is less than $140,000 and also to combat greed-driven 
student loan companies. 
In addition, Harris is also focusing on immigration reform. 
According to her website, she supports passing the federal 
DREAM Act, which would allow veterans and undocumented 
students who pursue higher education to have a chance at 
citizenship. It would be similar to the California DREAM Act, 
also supported by Harris, which gave undocumented students 
access to financial aid at public institutions. 
Loretta Sanchez has had a di fferent rise to politics. A fter receiving 
her MBA, she worked as a financial analyst for over a decade. 
Since 1997, she has served as a U.S. representative for California’ s 
46th and 47th districts in Orange County and currently serves on 
the Armed Services and Homeland Security Committees. 
In addition to immigration reform, Sanchez also is focused 
on enhancing the state’ s infrastructure and water supply. She has 
successfully developed a project to recycle 90 percent of the water 
in the district she represents and is prepared to initiate similar 
projects if she is elected. 
Though Harris hopes to make community college free for 
families whose incomes are below $140,000, Sanchez has a bit 
of a di fferent plan: She wants to lower the price of community 
college tuition to $5 per unit. Like Harris, Sanchez is also an 
advocate for increasing the award amount for Federal Pell Grants 
to meet schools’ increasing tuitions.
  By Rosina Garcia  // Contributing WriterSCOTT PETERS DENISE GITSHAM
Running for a third term, Scott Peters is defending his position 
as a Democratic congressman in a historically Republican 
district. Originally from Ohio, Peters spent his formative 
years in Michigan and New Jersey before going on to receive a 
Bachelor of Arts from Duke University and a law degree from 
New Y ork University. In 1989, Peters and his wife moved to San 
Diego, where he found work at a large law firm. He continued 
his career as a practicing lawyer until 2000, punctuated by a 
stint as San Diego County Counsel from 1991 to 1996. His 
career in politics began in 2000, when he was elected to the 
San Diego City Council. He served as a councilman until 2008, 
and became San Diego’s first city council president. Four years 
later, in 2012, he successfully ran for Congress against the 
Republican incumbent, Brian Bilbray, making him the first 
Democrat to represent the 52nd Congressional District since 
its creation in 1993.
Peters’ platform largely adheres to that of a center-le ft 
Democrat, although he does have a few issues that lean more 
progressive. Namely, he is passionate about environmental 
policy, having served as the chair of the Climate Task Force 
for the Sustainable Energy and Environment Coalition. His 
energy policy focuses on creating more jobs in clean sources 
of energy and alternative fuels, a field he believes will lead 
the United States to energy independence and, in turn, 
better the environment. Furthermore, Peters has stressed the 
importance of federal investment in research and technology, 
a prescient issue in San Diego’s largely tech-driven economy. 
This past year, he supported the 21st Century Cures Act, 
which increased funding for the National Institute of Health’s 
scienti fic research by $8 billion. 
Representing a district with a strong military presence due 
to the San Diego Naval Base, Peters has also made substantial 
promises to veterans in his platform. In addition to voting 
to increase bene fits for veterans, he has introduced bills that 
would require the Department of Veterans A ffairs to hire more 
therapists and provide a ffordable housing for elderly veterans.
Particularly relevant to students, Peters has consistently 
supported measures to reduce student debt. A fter helping 
pass a bill to support lower interest rates on student loans, he 
recently introduced a bill called the Student Loan Repayment 
Assistance Act, which would allow employers to match student 
loan payments up to $6,000 a year without being taxable for 
the employee.Born to a Taiwanese mother and a Canadian father, 
Denise Gitsham breaks sharply with the traditional 
“WASPy” image that surrounds the Republican party 
— a fact in which she takes great pride. In 2000, to 
help then-presidential candidate George W . Bush 
reach out to Hispanic voters, Gitsham worked as a 
“Hispanic Coalitions Coordinator, ” joking that she 
fit the role because she’s “just ethnically ambiguous 
enough to pass as almost anything. ”
Since working on the Bush campaign in 2000, 
Gitsham has had a varied career: She worked as an 
associate director of the O ffice of Intergovernmental 
Affairs and public liaison in the Justice Department 
from 2004 to 2005. Then, a fter receiving a law degree 
from Georgetown University, she worked at a law 
firm from 2008 to 2009. More recently, she has been 
involved in several small business ventures.
Having never held an elected position before, 
Gitsham does not have any legislative successes to 
advertise to voters. Instead, she sells herself as an 
entrepreneur and innovator, drawing on her experience 
working for a renewable energy startup and owning a 
small business. Naturally, the issues she supports the 
most are related to the economic environment in San 
Diego. In order to ensure the United States’ energy 
independence, she advocates an “all of the above” 
energy policy, encouraging development of renewable 
sources of energy while still exploiting fossil fuels, 
such as oil and natural gas. While she seems more 
progressive than most Republicans in acknowledging 
lowering carbon emissions as a goal, she is not as 
critical of oil companies as Peters. In terms of national 
security, she has a tendency of being hawkish, calling 
for increased investment in the defense industry and 
stating that “ America’s military is the greatest force for 
good and peace in the world, ” though she doesn’t spell 
out any speci fic foreign policy plans.
Of interest to students, she does call for increased 
investment in STEM education. She also wants to 
improve the business environment and encourage 
innovation in the San Diego area by cutting down 
on taxes and regulations, a standard Republican 
economic policy. By Oliver Kelton / / Features EditorC O N G R E S S I O N A L   
DISTRICT  52US SENA TE8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | NOVEMBER 7, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
GUARDIAN : A lot has been made about the upcoming presidential election. I’ d like to know 
what you think about being a congressman running in such a big media frenzy surrounding 
Trump, and just the overall spectacle of this election. Has it made it harder to raise awareness 
about your campaign?
P: That’s a good question. Every election’s different for me. Last year, there was nothing else 
on the ballot and my race was the big race — it was the congressional race with the fifth most 
spending in the country. So yeah, it’s a lot different this year being part of a presidential cycle. We 
seem to be doing okay though in terms of getting our word out; we’ve done a lot of TV ads, we’ve 
spent about a million dollars on TV , and we have a pretty significant mail program. And today, 
and every day, people are calling voters to make sure they know there’s an election coming up. 
The good thing about this is that in an off-year sometimes you have to remind people that there 
is an election. Mr. Trump and Secretary Clinton are doing that for us.
G: One of the biggest obstacles facing students is obviously the cost of education. There’s been 
a lot of debate at the national level, as well as the state level and the UC level. What do you 
think is the best way to approach this issue? Do you think free college is the way to go, or is 
there another way forward?
P:  First of all, I appreciate the question. This is a personal thing for me because my own education 
was financed by financial aid. My dad’s a minister and we didn’t have a lot of money growing 
up, but in the ‘70s, he said to each of my sisters and I that we should just get into the best school 
we could get into and they’ d figure out a way to pay for it. So I went to Duke, my sister went to 
Colombia, one went to Northwestern and one went to Quintenberg. They were all expensive 
places, but we didn’t have any trouble at all. I got grants, I got student loans, I got a work-study 
job and, after I got out, I had some debt, but it wasn’t unmanageable. 
Today the cost of a public education, where 80 percent of college kids are educated, is up to 
300 percent higher adjusted for inflation. So there are two problems. One is we have to keep the 
state investing in education. The state sets tuition. The state has to remember that what made 
the Golden State golden was education, and it has to keep tuition at a place that’s attainable 
for families. On the federal side, we need to continue to provide aid. I’ve been a champion for 
funding Pell Grants. I’ve been an opponent of student loans with really high rates. So when you 
charge six to eight percent for kids and the cost of money is two percent, you’re using those kids 
as profit centers. What we’ d rather do is see them get educated, compete in the economy, get good 
jobs, make a lot of money and pay taxes — that’s how we recover our money. We don’t gouge 
them on the interest rates of their loans. So I’ve been part of an effort to make sure that we allow 
everyone to refinance student loans to a maximum of four percent. 
Finally, we’re trying to think of creative ways to help people in the workforce to deal with their 
debt. I have a bill — the Student Loan Repayment Assistance Act — that would allow employers 
to match your student loan payments up to $6,000 a year without being taxable for the employee. 
So that’s something the employer can offer to an employee that would be attractive to them. It 
would also help pay down the debt, which would be attractive to them, and also, it would push 
back a little back on the default loans.
G:  Well, during the Democratic primary, there was a lot of debate between Senator Sanders 
and Secretary Clinton about whether free public college is the way to go. Now Clinton has 
put forward her plan to offer free public tuition for students whose families make less than 
$125,000 a year. So where do you stand?
P: Y ou know, I’m skeptical of totally free stuff, because I think it’s good for people to have skin 
in the game. I think when you give things away for free, inevitably that’s misused. And I’m not 
sure whether that’s realistic, but I think it’s laudable in its intent to make sure that every kid who’s 
qualified for college can get an education. I think the main thing for me is making sure that the 
amount of debt you come out with is manageable, so that if you and your family do make an 
investment, it’s not crippling your own economic decision-making — starting a family, buying a 
house, right out of the box.
G: What issues do you think are currently being overshadowed that the federal government 
should be prioritizing?
P: Climate change is one. I’m the chair of the Democrats’ Climate Caucus. And I try to work 
on policies that would reduce the impacts of greenhouse gasses. We have a bill that came out 
of research from Dr. Ramanathan at Scripps Oceanography. With climate pollutants, methane 
black carbon and hydrofluorocarbons — which have a bigger impact than carbon dioxide but are 
less persistent — if you can reduce their output, you can have a real effect on the rate of climate 
change. But we haven’t had a lot of luck in a political environment like that. But in the military, 
my portfolio in the armed services is energy. So I’ve been working on supporting the Navy’s 
attempt to go to 50 percent renewable. And the marines have a lot of battlefield technologies that 
are based on solar that are really innovative; we want to support that. So climate change is one. 
We still need to deal with immigration throughout the economy. We have to do international 
tax reform to keep our own companies competitive. I’m a fan of trade. I think we need to figure 
out how we’re gonna do that. And infrastructure is a real need. All those things are getting 
overshadowed by the gridlock and the inactivity in Congress.
G:  I wanna follow up on that. With the presidential election being next week, let’s say your 
party’s opponent, Donald Trump, wins the presidency. One of your priorities is climate change, and that’s not an issue that he and many other Republicans feel is a real issue. How 
are you going to manage to navigate through that?
P:  It will be difficult because the champion we’ve had recently is President Obama with the 
Clean Power Plan and being a leader on the Paris Agreement. We’ve been really fortunate to 
have that kind of policy leadership on climate from the White House, even though Congress 
isn’t as interested. So what you’re describing is a scenario where even the White House isn’t 
interested, and I think that’ d be a real setback.
G: And even if your party’s candidate, Hillary Clinton, wins, it is likely that the House 
of Representatives will remain majority Republican. How do you see working with the 
Republican majority to have your goals carried out?
P:  On civil rights issues, we just have to keep fighting — a woman’s right to choose, LGBT rights, 
voting rights, gun safety, money in politics. Those all tend to be pretty partisan, and there’s not 
a lot of room to compromise. I hope voters will understand that they got to get out and vote if 
they want to win the battles on those, or in some of the cases, preserve the victories that have 
already been won. 
On economic issues, I just think that business issues have bipartisan solutions. My approach 
has always been that way. And I think, if the scenario develops as you say, it’ll be another signal 
that we’re in for a divided government for a long time and we have to figure out a way to do it. 
I think most of my Republican colleagues, not the Freedom Caucus necessarily, but the other 
ones, are in it to try to make improvements and make progress. They’re not going to be able to 
do it without Democrats, and we’re not going to be able to do it without them.
G: In addition to the divide between the two parties, after this primary, there’s also a 
growing divide within your own party. Senator Sanders kind of drew a line in the sand 
between more progressive Democrats and more moderate Democrats, which I think is 
exciting for a lot of liberal college students because they feel like they can somewhat 
shape the future of the Democratic Party. Where do you think the party is going and 
where do you want to see it go?
P:  Well, my party has its divides, but we’re functioning. We don’t have people saying things 
like, “Withdraw from NATO” or “Give nuclear weapons to Saudi Arabia and Japan. ” I don’t 
agree with Bernie Sanders on a lot of economic issues — we probably agree on a lot of civil 
rights issues — but the divide in our party pales in comparison to the disintegration of the 
Republican Party. They’ve got to get their act together. They’ve got to find out where their 
“yes” is, because we know what they’re against; we just don’t know what they’re for. 
Nancy Pelosi — a pretty progressive woman, pretty far to the left from me politically 
— loves having me in the party. She sees it as a “big tent” party. We’re always going to be 
that way because we’re always trying to make it work. So you can have someone like me 
and, at the same time, someone like Senator Warren; we’re actually after the same kinds of 
solutions. We might get there in different ways, but the Democratic Party’s a big enough 
tent to accommodate all of us. 
G:  How about undocumented immigrants? There’s an upcoming talk about making 
UCSD a sanctuary campus. How do you feel about that and other solutions?
P:  I’m not sure exactly what that means, but I will tell you what my position is on 
DREAMers: It’s just cruel to send them back. So I support the DREAM Act, I support 
comprehensive immigration reform. I would support the 2013 comprehensive bill that the 
Senate passed. I don’t love everything about it — I think it’s a little heavy on police and a 
little light on customs officers — but it does deal a lot with our workforce issues and with 
making sure that families can come out of the shadows. So it’s got security, it’s got workforce 
and it’s got a rational understanding of the fact that there are people already working here 
who don’t deserve to be illegal; they deserve some sort of status. 
G: So some students have the goal of becoming career politicians…
P: Really? Can I meet them?
G:  But a lot of them don’t. A lot of them are not interested in getting involved with politics at 
an official level, but obviously, they still care about the issues that affect their communities. 
What do you think is the best way for students to cause change without taking on a 
governmental position?
P:  The easiest way, in all honesty, is to vote in every election because not enough people — even 
at UCSD, which is probably a pretty engaged campus — are voting. The reason that we talk so 
much about issues like the cost of prescription drugs for older people, and not so much about 
education or climate, is because that’s where the votes are. So voting is number one. 
Number two: Y ou’ d be surprised about how much effect a constructive email or a 
constructive phone call from a constituent can have. So I would be in contact with your local, 
state and federal elected officials. Make sure that if you’ve got an issue, they know about it. And 
then I would stay engaged with your peers to make sure that if you need to organize an effort 
together to make change, you do that too. It’s about understanding the issues, speaking up and 
being constructive. There’s a lot of yelling right now and there’s a lot of negative pressure. People 
in your cohort at UCSD are going to be smart enough to find the answers, too. So don’t just find 
the problems; find the answers and be constructive. jacky  to // managing   editor
oliver   kel ton  //  fea tures   editorQ    &          A   CONGRESSMAN
SCOTT PETERSCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 7, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
CAMERA LUCIDA
SEASON PREMIERE
 CONRAD PREBYS CONCERT HALLTahrirWEEKTHISat UC SAN DIEGO
NOV 7 - NOV 132016POWERED BY THE 
STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER
AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
MON 11.07 WED11.09MON 11.07  • 7:30pm
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guardian
Calenda r
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdg uardian.orgTUE11.08
10am
REVELLIANS! REVELLE MONDAY 
COFFEE WITH PROVOST YU & 
PROFESSORS - REVELLE COLLEGE 
COMMUTER LOUNGE
Revellians! Join Provost Yu and Revelle Professors 
for FREE coffee, donuts, bagels, OJ, and informal 
conversation - you pick the topic! Contact: 
ndaly@ucsd.edu
1pm
SMALL TALK: THE ART OF 
INITIATING RELATIONSHIPS - BEAR 
ROOM, PC WEST, LEVEL 2
Small talk can make or break a potential 
connection. It is the first form of communication 
we often have with new contacts and our "way 
in"  to new interpersonal and professional 
relationships. Learn effective strategies for 
engaging in small talk that will lead to more 
meaningful interactions and put your skills into 
practice. Contact: ccl@ucsd.edu 858-534-0501
2pm
HUNGRY FOR HEALTHY: VEGAN 
CAULIFLOWER FRIED RICE - THE 
ZONE, PC PLAZA
Come join us as we make healthy recipes, hosted 
by various guests and get FREE samples! 
Materials and ingredients are provided. Space is 
limited, first come, first served. Contact: 
zone@ucsd.edu3pm
THE REAL WORLD CAREER 
SERIES: IT'S WHO YOU KNOW! - 
CROSS-CULTURAL CENTER 
This program will help you understand the 
benefits of networking, and how you can 
leverage who and what you know to make and 
strengthen connections that will help you 
obtain letters of recommendation for graduate 
school, land that interview, obtain internships 
etc. Learn how to ask for referrals and review 
networking etiquette. Contact: 
vigonzales@ucsd.edu
7pm
YOUR WORK ON THE WEB! - 
VILLAGE WEST CONFERENCE 
ROOM A
Interested in creating an online portfolio to 
showcase your talents? Come to "Your Work on 
The Web!", a workshop with UCSD's Student 
Success Mentors designed to help you build a 
personal website. The workshop will take place 
on November 9th in the Village West Conference 
Room from 7pm - 8:30pm. Bring your laptop 
and a charger. We will provide you with desserts 
and drinks! Put your work where it belongs, on 
The Web! Contact: beyounge@ucsd.edu
8pm
SAM GREEN AND BRENT GREEN: 
LIVE CINEMA AT ARTPOWER - 
QUALCOMM INSTITUTE
UCSD STUDENT: $9
Oscar-nominated filmmaker Sam Green and 
filmmaker/animator Brent Green, while not 
related, are both known for their singular 
performances combining cinema, musical 
accompaniment, and live narration. At this 
unique event, Brent will tell stories about his 
family, growing up in rural Pennsylvania, and 
the woman who sewed a spacesuit for the first 
dog sent into space. Sam will share tales about 
Louis Armstrong, the fog in San Francisco, and 
the last person listed in the San Francisco 
phone book. This rare collaborative appearance 
features live foley and soundtracks by 
musicians Brendan Canty (Fugazi), James 
Canty (Nation of Ulysses), Becky Foon (Thee 
Silver Mt. Zion), and Kaye Ryan, as 
accompaniment to these short cinematic gems. 
Contact: artpower@ucsd.eduVETERANS' WEEK SCAVENGER 
HUNT - STUDENT VETERANS 
RESOURCE CENTER
72 green toy soldiers will be hidden around 
campus. Clues will be posted at the facebook link 
below. Once found the toys should be returned to 
the Student Veterans Resource Center for a 
reward sponsored by different campus 
departments. Contact: skeyzers@ucsd.edu
11:30m
FLU CLINIC @ THE ZONE - THE 
ZONE, PC PLAZA
Come get your flu shot at The Zone! Cost of 
vaccine is FREE for students with SHIP . Costs for 
students without SHIP: Injectable: $15, 
Intranasal: $25
2pm
SELF-PRESERVATION STRATEGIES 
FOR LGBTQIA+ COMMUNITY - 
LGBT RESOURCE CENTER 
Come take a break to destress and connect with 
community at the LGBTRC. We'll have 
refreshments, coloring & wellness activities for 
you. Contact: rainbow@ucsd.edu 8588223493THU11.10
10am
MEDITATION - THE ZONE, PC 
PLAZA
Enjoy this sampling of techniques as they guide 
you to the blissful silence behind thoughts. 
Seated, standing, lying down and moving 
techniques may be covered. Suitable for all levels 
of experience. All classes with Vou Athens. 
Contact: zone@ucsd.edu (858) 534-5553
11am
TRUE COLORS - ERC ROOM, PC
This workshop is a fun and interactive activity 
that will provide students insight of their 
individual personality "Color(s)"  and how to best 
utilize their strengths and opportunities when 
collaborating with others to achieve a goal. 
Contact: ccl@ucsd.edu 858-534-0501
5pm
MATHEMATICAL BEAUTY IN 
ROME GLOBAL SEMINAR INFO 
SESSION - ERC ROOM, PC
Meet Professor Joseph Pasquale and learn about 
the courses and excursions for the Mathematical 
Beauty in Rome Global Seminar. We will also 
discuss financial aid, scholarships, and the 
application process. Contact: 
globalseminar@ucsd.edu
7pm
THIRSTY THURSDAYS AT LA 
JOLLA PLAYHOUSE - LA JOLLA 
PLAYHOUSE
Thirsty Thursdays: Join us before your performance 
for complimentary beer tastings from Border X 
Brewing. Presented by La Jolla Playhouse in 
partnership with James Place. Includes two 3-oz 
beer tastings. Contact: gmadamba@ljp.orgFRI11.11
12pm
INTERNATIONAL FRIDAY CAFE - 
GREAT HALL
Each Friday of the academic year, the 
International Center hosts the Friday Cafe where 
the culture and cuisine of a different country is 
featured each week. Meet people from around the 
world, enjoy international music, and explore 
world cultures all while enjoying a delicious meal 
from countries around the world. All students, 
staff, faculty, and community members are 
welcome! Time: 12:00-1:15 PM | Price: $5 per 
plate. Contact: maie@mail.ucsd.edu
6pm
FOODIE FRIDAYS AT LA JOLLA 
PLAYHOUSE - LA JOLLA 
PLAYHOUSE
Foodie Fridays: Theatergoers with a love for 
delicious eats and music are invited to attend 
Foodie Fridays, where a ticket to select Playhouse 
performances also includes access to San Diego's 
finest food trucks! Dates: November 11 - God Save 
the Cuisine. Contact: gmadamba@ljp.org
6pm
FOODIE FRIDAYS AT LA JOLLA 
PLAYHOUSE - LA JOLLA 
PLAYHOUSE
Foodie Fridays: Theatergoers with a love for 
delicious eats and music are invited to attend 
Foodie Fridays, where a ticket to select Playhouse 
performances also includes access to San Diego's 
finest food trucks! Dates: November 11 - God Save 
the Cuisine. Contact: gmadamba@ljp.orgSAT11.12
10am
UCSD MEN'S WATER POLO - 
SUNSET SAN DIEGO - 
CANYONVIEW AQUATIC 
CENTER
Come out and watch your UCSD Men's Water 
Polo team during the Sunset San Diego 
exhibition event! Contact: 
tritonfrontdesk@ucsd.edu
6pm
SONIC SATURDAYS AT LA 
JOLLA PLAYHOUSE - LA 
JOLLA PLAYHOUSE
Sonic Saturdays: Enjoy complimentary beer 
tastings and live music from local San Diego 
musicians, Tori Roze and Johnny Alexander, 
before the show! *Dates and musicians 
subject to change Contact: 
gmadamba@ljp.org
GO VOTE!10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 7, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDSGuardian Classifieds are FREE for the UC San Diego community.
 www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedscrossword
Across
 1  Apply footnotes
5.  Minimum wage
10. Tamp
14. Lyric poetry
15. ‘’Suzanne’’ composer Leonard
16. Man or Ely, e.g
17. Prepare a certain breakfast serving
19. Some make light of it
20. Fraternal fellow
21. Crockett’s mission?
22. Loads
23. Jazz composer Kenton
24. ARCO arena sound
25. Become proficient in
28. Showy birds
33. Plants that yield a soothing balm
34. Great Plains buffalo-hunting tribe
35. One of a 15th-century trio
36. Safety item in a trunk
37. Hindu garment
38. Regatta sights
40. Modern medical tool
41. Intensify
42. Mississippi sights
43. It’s the word
44. Cadence
45. Pond covering
48. Infant problem
50. Feline foot
53. Threatening sound
54. A kind of guy
56. Larger-than-life
57. Share a view
58. Clairvoyant one
59. Thomas, the clockmaker
60. Check the figures over
61. Stevenson villainDown
1. Deal with successfully
2. Object of devotion
3. Shipbuilding wood
4. Keyboard key
5. Two-dimensional
6. Film Barbarian
7. Cousin of ‘’psst!’’
8. Big name in construction toys
9. Chang’s Siamese twin
10. Chef’s contribution, perhaps
11. Out of port
12. Lummox
13. Some Mattel output
18. Abominates
22. Something to hit when tired
23. Get ahead of (with ‘’on’’)
24. Ascot event
25. Minister’s home
26. Assumed identity
27. Kind of barrier or boom
28. Word with fashion or dinner
29. Listening devices
30. Use a sled
31. Asian peninsula
32. Begins to awaken
34. Sheepish cry
36. Kind of rubber
39. Jeans opening?
40. To empty or drain
42. Removed frost
44. Aren’t colorfast
45. Son of Zeus and Hera
46. Canter leisurely
47. Manner of walking
48. Tweety’s home
49. Gumbo ingredient
50. Hares, to hounds, e.g.
51. Like fine cheese
52. ‘’The Way We ___’’
54. Cigarette stat
55. Kind of tray
 63 Black gooAUTOMOTIVE
Pitstop Auto Spa Center - 20% Off Auto 
Detail Services Mira Mesa - Expires. CAR 
WASHES - AUTO DETAILING. Listing ID: 
306503332 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Clairemont Car Wash - $10 Off Car Wash, 
Hand Wax & Tire Treatment - Clairemont - 
CAR WASHES - AUTO DETAILING. Listing ID: 
306503328 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
AAA Japanese Car Specialists - Oil Change 
Special San Diego $14.95* - Expires 
- GENERAL AUTO REPAIR. Listing ID: 
307261269 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
ELECTRONICS
Sony A3000 Camera w/Tripod and Sony 
Bag - $300. Literally new condition. Used 
a total of three times. I’m not a photog -
rapher. Just thought cameras were cool 
when I bought it and I never take photos. 
Including a tripod and Sony camera bag. 
Both bought separately. Text/call, but pre -
fer text because I work nights. Listing ID: 
306503231 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
GoPro HERO 4 Silver - $300. Brand new 
GoPro HERO four silver waterproof with 
built in touch display 1080p60 12mp WiFi 
& Bluetooth control view share. FIRM PRICE 
$300. Listing ID: 304329629 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
Photo and Video Lighting - $350. I have 
two pepper lights and one AR RI 300 plus 
lights with shutters and mounts. All three 
are working and are in attractive condition. 
They come with a pelican case and ballast. 
They all have bulbs and some lighting 
accessories. Listing ID: 306503233 at ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
TEXTBOOKS
SDSU textbooks (PSY365, CJ300, CJ303, 
PA301, CSP420) - All are in excellent/almost 
brand new condition (look like they’ve 
never been opened pretty much). Except 
for the PA301 book. Just hit me up if you 
would like to buy, or have any other ques -
tions. Thank you. Listing ID: 306503175 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Textbook (SDSU PSY 365) (San Diego) - $60 
- Drug Use and Abuse Sdsu Custom Edition 
(Loose Leaf ) by Stephen A. Maisto (Author), 
et al. IBSN 978-1-305-03954-4. Listing ID: 
306503174 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
INTERMEDIATE ALGEBRA TEXTBOOK (San 
Marcos) - $70 - INTERMEDIATE ALGEBRA 
TEXTBOOK 11TH EDITION $70.00. ISBN 
978-0-321-71541-8.  Listing ID: 306503173 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
informationwhat do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
A.S. CONCERTS AND EVENTS
ENTERTAINMENT
SURVEYWe take your entertainment seriously. 
Give A.S. Concerts & Events your 
opinion on the Sun God Festival, top 
artists, genres, and events that you 
want to see this year. 
Take our Entertainment Survey to
be entered for the chance to win a
$10 Starbucks gift card.
https:/ /studentvoice.com/ucsd/asce16ALL CAMPUS
COMMUTER
BOARD
enriching life
for commuters
Visit accb.ucsd.edu or on Facebook @AllCampusCommuterBoard for more information on 
commuter events and programs.
KSDT RADIO
tuning into
local creativity
Find us at the Original Student Center, listen to great stations on ksdt.org and follow us on 
Facebook @KSDTCollegeRadio.SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 7, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
the night with a 25–19 victory over 
UCSD.
Freshman outside hitter Jessyca 
Beksa was the only UCSD player 
with at least 10 points, although 
freshman opposite Simone Froley, 
Colla and Wright all came within 
a point or fewer. Despite Colla 
leading the team with 15 digs and 
sophomore libero Kayla Evans’ 31 
assists, it was simply not the Tritons’ 
night.  
Cal State Stanislaus
The first set of the Tritons’ 
Saturday night matchup wound up 
being yet another close game, but 
unfortunately it also ended up being 
the team’s closest set of the night. For 
the majority of the match, neither 
team could gain any momentum; 
each point was matched by the opposing team. Things began to slip 
away slowly for the Tritons, however, 
as the Warriors’ lead slowly grew 
until finally knocking out UCSD for 
a 25–21 victory. 
With the final two sets, UCSD’s 
night began to tumble. The Warriors 
stayed just far enough ahead of the 
Tritons in the second set to keep the 
game competitive without giving 
the Tritons any actual opportunities 
to come back. A Wright kill gave 
the Tritons a brief 7–6 lead, but the 
Warriors responded with a five-
point scoring run to take the lead 
for good and eventually take the set 
25–17. The Tritons actually showed 
some flashes of life in the third set, 
starting out with a 9–4 lead, but that 
lead quickly crumbled with the help 
of three UCSD attack errors. With 
the Tritons’ con fidence crushed, 
Cal State Stanislaus steamrolled the rest of the set with an anticlimactic 
25–16 win to continue the Triton 
nightmare.
With the win, Cal State Stanislaus 
improved to 11–14 overall and 8–8 
in conference, while the Tritons 
fell to 12–12 overall and 8–7 in 
conference a fter the back-to-back 
losses.
“We didn’t play well as a team, ” 
UCSD head coach Ricci Luyties told 
the UCSD athletics department. 
“We need to regroup and better the 
ball on our side of the net if we want 
to turn things around. ” 
The Tritons get an opportunity 
to turn things around in their final 
regular-season match of the season, 
where they will travel to Cal State 
San Marcos on Saturday, Nov. 12. 
WITH PERFORMANCES BY
ISAIAH RASHADANDREW LUCETENNYSON

TOWN SQUARE & MATTHEWS QUADAS CONCERTS & EVENTS PRESENTS
and they fought all the way through. 
I liked what I saw by being in it until 
the last possession. ” 
UCSD–5, UCD–7
Although UCSD lost to the eighth-
placed Aggies, it showed tremendous 
effort and relentlessness that would 
make anyone proud to be a Triton. 
In the final conference match of the 
season, UCSD almost came back 
from a five-point de ficit by rallying to 
score four points in      a row. 
Well into the third quarter and 
toward the final minutes of the game, 
UC Davis saw a commanding 6–1 lead 
dwindle to a single goal. Hmeidan 
started the rally by converting a 
penalty shot with 2:45 le ft in the 
third quarter. Thirty-six seconds later, 
Momdzhyan fired a backhand shot 
to the bottom right of the cage and 
closed the gap to three scores. 
Momdzhyan and freshman utility 
Noah Carniglia were the only two 
Tritons to score in the fourth, but 
by then, UC Davis had too large of a lead. The Aggies finally broke an 
eight-minute scoring drought with 
sophomore utility Sasa Antunovic’s 
insurance goal. 
UCSD goalkeeper Jack Turner 
recorded a total of 14 saves, three 
away from his season high. The 
Tritons failed to take advantage of any 
power plays the entire game, going 
0–9. They did, however, convert a 
lone five-meter             penalty shot. 
UCSD finished the season as the 
second seed in the WWPA and will 
travel to the championship at Santa 
Clara on Nov. 18 to Nov. 20.
“We’re okay being the two-seed, ” 
remarked Harper. “Two weeks from 
now, historically, it’s our best time of 
the year, so we’ll be ready. ”
To prepare for the postseason, 
UCSD will host two exhibition 
matches against Sunset San Diego 
and San Francisco Olympic Club. The 
doubleheader is on Saturday, Nov. 12 
at 10 a.m and 12 p.m. 
alex wu     adw006@ucsd,eduTritons Hope to Redeem T hemselves in Final Match on Nov. 12 Tritons Finish as No. 2 Seed in WWPA
▶ W. VOLLEYBALL,  from page 12 ▶ WATER POLO,  from page 12
anthony tzeng  aitzeng@ucsd,edu
PHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE/UCSD GUARDIAN
www.ucsdguardian.org/advertisingTu r n  You r  ACTIONS
into Words
Advertise your event, your product!
Advertise yourself withSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
ROSINA GARCIA
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 7, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
The UCSD cross country teams traveled to Billings, Montana this past weekend to compete 
in the NCAA West Regionals race. Seniors Tareq Alwafai and Brendan Gee earned spots 
as individuals at the NCAA Division II National Championship per their top 10 finishes. 
Overall, the men’s team finished in sixth with 163 points, and the women’s team finished in ninth 
with 318 points. Chico State beat out the competition on both the men and women’s side with 45 
and 70 points, respectively. 
In the men’s 10-kilometer race, Alwafai crossed the finish line in seventh place in an astounding 
30:09.47, averaging 4:52 per mile. His teammate, Gee, was not far behind, finishing in 10th in 
30:30.87, averaging 4:55 per mile. The next two finishers for the men, sophomores Aren Johnson 
and Samuel Blake, also came in close together at 41st and 46th, respectively. Senior Terrence 
Luevano was the final scorer for the Tritons, finishing in 59th. Senior Will Reyes of Chico State was the individual winner, with a time of 29:45.16. 
The women did not fare quite as well as the men in their six-kilometer race. The top scorers 
for the Tritons, senior Ella Verhees and sophomore Karina Carstens, finished neck-and-neck in 
40th and 41st with times of 22:31.03 and 22:31.07, respectively. Rounding out the scorers for the 
women were juniors Kristin Semancsin (62nd), Merin Ar ft (87th) and Skylar Thiel (88th). Cal 
State San Bernardino’s senior Laura Aceves was the top scorer for the 6k race, finishing in 20:55.95. 
“Both teams fought really hard, ” head coach Nate Garcia told the UCSD athletics department. 
“We were hopeful that we would be able to advance as a team, but this is an incredibly tough 
region. ” The top five men’s teams and the top six women’s teams earn a spot in the NCAA 
Championships race. 
Alwafai and Gee will compete in the NCAA Championship race in St. Leo, Florida on Nov. 19. 
Two Tritons Earn Spots 
at NCAA Championships
The women’s team ﬁnishes in ninth and the 
men’s in sixth at NCAA West Regionals.  
Women's Volleyball
Cross Countr y
Tritons Suffer Two-Straight Losses
Losing in three sets to both Chico State and Cal State Stanislaus, the Tritons fall to 12 –12 overall.  
Men's W a ter polo
 Tritons Split Two on Road
UCSD nabbed an 11–10 victory at Santa Clara but fell to UC Davis.
BY  A n t h o n y  T z e n g
Senior staff writerby Rosina Garcia // Sports Editor
To say that the UCSD women’s 
volleyball team had a rough weekend 
is a bit of an understatement. 
Headed into the weekend 12–10, the 
Tritons had just dropped yet another 
five-set match and were hoping to 
turn their fortune around in their 
Friday night match against Chico 
State, a team they hadn’t lost to since 
2014. Unfortunately, that streak 
came to an end with a thrashing 0–3 
loss, a nightmare that would recur 
on Saturday night against Cal State 
Stanislaus in another 0–3 loss. 
Chico State
While the first set was a fairly 
close a ffair, the Wildcats took the 
lead early and never relinquished 
it. Despite a kill by junior outside hitter Amanda Colla to give the 
Tritons a 3–1 lead, a Chico State kill 
and two UCSD attack errors gave 
the Wildcats a 4–3 lead, a lead built 
by three UCSD errors. The Wildcats 
gladly took this opportunity, pushing 
their lead to as many as six points 
halfway through the set. While the 
Tritons made it a competitive 20–22 
off of a kill by junior middle blocker 
Rebecca Seaberry, they ultimately 
fell 25–21.
The second set was a nailbiter 
in all regards. A fter starting o ff 
3–1 yet again, the Wildcats fought 
the Tritons tooth and nail, closing 
in to tie the game every time it 
seemed like the Tritons were pulling 
ahead. In a set marked by seven 
lead changes and 15 tied scores, it 
seemed destined that the two teams 
would play for extra points. Failing to capitalize on opportunities to 
put the game away while leading 
25–24 and 30–29, the Tritons would 
concede three straight points, 
culminating in a service ace, to drop 
the set 32–30.
The third and final set of the 
night was yet another fairly close 
game. With nine tied scores and 
four lead changes, the set looked like 
it could go either way or perhaps go 
into extra points again. However, 
after senior middle blocker Meagan 
Wright brought the team within 
one to make the game 17–16, the 
team simply fell apart. The Tritons 
then gave up a kill, an ace and 
then committed two attack errors, 
allowing Chico State to pull ahead 
for good and eventually close out Last Thursday and Saturday 
marked the final games of the season 
for the UCSD men’s water polo team. 
The Tritons traveled north to Santa 
Clara University and UC Davis where 
they faced the NCAA ’s 20th and 
eighth-ranked teams, respectively. 
UCSD squeezed out a win against 
the Broncos with an 11–10 victory. 
However, its perfect conference 
record and four-game winning 
streak was shattered a fter a 5–7 
defeat by the Mustangs. The Tritons 
ultimately finished the season with 
a 13–7 overall record and boasted a 
5–1 record in the Western Water Polo 
Association. 
UCSD–11, Santa Clara–10
What started as a sure victory on 
Thursday night quickly wound up 
being a nail-biting matchup for the 
Tritons. A fter allowing Santa Clara 
to score on the opening drive, UCSD 
responded by putting up seven points 
of its own in the           first half. 
The Tritons really opened the 
door in the second quarter with help 
from senior utility Nick Alexander, 
who took advantage of a power play 
and scored the final point of the first 
half. Alexander also showed great 
water polo IQ in the first half, feeding 
fellow utility teammates junior 
Arman Momdzhyan, sophomore 
Kevin Asplund and freshman Skyler 
Munatones for goals of their own. 
Asplund also scored a second goal on a penalty shot and contributed 
to UCSD’s 7–3 lead at the end of the 
half. 
In the third quarter, Santa Clara 
turned up the heat and picked apart 
UCSD’s defense for four goals. 
“I’m certainly pleased we won, ” 
commented UCSD head coach 
Denny Harper. “Jack Turner was very 
good in goal, but we did not play a 
very good second half. ”
The Broncos’ top scorer, senior 
driver Graham McClone, scored 
his first of two goals that quarter 
to close the gap and make it a 9–7 
game. Tritons Alexander and senior 
utility Nassim Hmeidan exchanged 
connections and gave each other a 
goal and assist.
UCSD and Santa Clara went back 
and forth in the fourth quarter with 
the Tritons trying to add insurance 
runs and the Broncos’ attempting to 
tie the game. The game ultimately 
came down to the last few minutes 
when Bronco senior two-meter Will 
Grant scored on a power play at 
2:10. Up by one point, sophomore 
goalkeeper Jack Turner and the 
Tritons were able to hold back Santa 
Clara and get the win. 
“[Tritons] are a very good team, ” 
said Broncos head coach Keith 
Wilbur. “I thought we played them 
tough. We played with a lot of energy Rosina Garcia   rmg008@ucsd.edu
BY   A l e x  W u
associate sports editor
See W. VOLLEYBALL , page 11
See WATER POLO , page 11PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICS
PHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE/UCSD GUARDIANUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM. Basketball
W. Basketball
M. Water Polo
M. Basketball
W. Basketball11/11
11/11
11/12
11/12
11/127:30 PM
5:30 PM
10 AM
7:30 PM
5:30 PMVS Dixie State
AT San Marcos Classic
VS Sunset San Diego
VS Azusa Paci fic
AT San Marcos Classic