VOLUME 50, ISSUE 10   MONDA Y , OCTOBER 24, 2016  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
TRITONS FOR 
TRUMP
STUDENTS HAVE PLENTY TO 
SAY ABOUT TRUMP AND HIS 
CAMPAIGN, BUT WHAT ABOUT 
HIS SUPPORTERS? TRITONS 
TALK ABOUT THE EXPERIENCE 
OF BEING A REPUBLICAN AT 
UC SAN DIEGO.
PRESCRIPTION  DRUGS
M. SOCCER  IN  FIRSTUNREGULA TED  PRICE  INCREA SES
NO  LONGER  TIED  A T  THE  TOPOPINION, P AGE 4
SPORTS,  P age  12
FORECAST
VERBATIM
IF YOU BELIEVE OUR 
LEGISLATURE SHOULD BE 
MORE OPEN, TRANSPARENT 
AND ACCESSIBLE, THEN I 
ENCOURAGE MY FELLOW 
STUDENTS TO JOIN ME 
IN VOTING “YES” ON 
PROPOSITION 64 THIS 
NOVEMBER.”
- Quinton Grounds
Op-Ed: Put Voters First
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
RETRACTION  ................... 3
PROPOSITION 54  ........... 4
PROSPECT  ...................... 7
CROSSWORD  ................ 10
W. SOCCER  ................... 11FEA TURES,  P AGE  6
ILLUSTRATION BY CHRISTINA CARLSON / GUARDIAN
MONDAY
H 72 L 62TUESDAY
H 68 L 60
WEDNESDAY
H 70 L 60THURSDAY 
H 76 L 62
UCSD Transportation Services 
data from Spring Quarter 2016 
shows that, on average, there 
were more A parking spaces 
available in the six colleges than 
B and S spots combined. On 
any given day, an average total 
of 3459 A spots, 2950 B spots                                                                             
and 52 S spots were unoccupied 
between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m.
During Fall Quarter 2015, just 
two quarters earlier, there were 
an average total of 2948 A spaces, 
3499 B spaces and 106 S spaces 
available throughout the day across 
the six colleges. That means there was a 17 percent increase in A spot 
availability, a 16 percent decrease 
in B spot availability and a 51 
percent drop in S spot availability.          
Whether this was due to a 
university-mandated parking space 
reallocation, a surge in the number 
of undergraduate drivers or some 
combination of both is unclear.
Though 70 S spots have been 
added along Expedition Way, near 
Scripps Institution of Oceanography, 
32 others in P102 across from La 
Jolla Playhouse were converted 
into B spots. Furthermore, 900 S 
spaces will be removed this month 
as construction of the UCSD Blue 
Line Trolley commences, mostly in 
parking lots on East Campus. The number of spots available 
varied significantly depending 
on the time of day. Moving back 
to Spring Quarter 2016, A and B 
permit holders had the best chance 
of finding a parking space during 
the earliest hours of the day. For 
instance, at 8 a.m., there were an 
average of 1109 A spots available 
and 1085 B spots available. 
Conversely, even in the early 
mornings, there tended to be few to 
no S spots available. Among all six 
colleges, there was an average total 
of one unoccupied S spot at 8 a.m. 
In fact, at any of the six colleges, the 
only times of day that had averaged National 
Academy of  
Medicine Elects 
ResearchersSCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY
The two UCSD Department of 
Family Medicine and Public 
Health professors consider 
their appointments an honor.
Two UCSD researchers were 
elected to the National Academy of 
Medicine on Oct. 17, the university 
announced in a press release. Cheryl 
Ann Marie Anderson and James 
F. Sallis are both members of the 
department of family medicine and 
public health as well as professors 
at UCSD.
Anderson and Sallis were elected 
along with 70 other new members 
and nine international members, 
joining the ranks of the 1,866 
medical professionals already in 
NAM, over 50 of whom are current 
or former UCSD faculty and staff.   
The Institute of Medicine stems 
from the National Academy of 
Sciences, which was authorized 
by Abraham Lincoln and founded 
in 1870. The National Academy 
of Medicine was created in 
1970 to replace the Institute of 
Medicine and expand its activities. 
Being elected to the academy 
is one of the highest honors in 
the field of medicine. Members 
of the Academy of Medicine are 
unpaid and serve alongside the 
National Academy of Sciences and                                                                             
the National Academy of Engineering 
as advisors to the national and 
international community. 
To join the National Academy 
of Medicine, potential members 
must be nominated by existing 
members. These nominations are 
then reviewed by the nominee’s sub-
group, such as public health. Finally, 
the nominees are voted on by the 
entire membership of the academy. 
Salis explained that as most 
of those who are nominated are 
ultimately not elected to the NAM, 
his induction legitimized his career 
efforts.
“Most nominations are not 
successful, so it’s a tough process, ” 
Sallis told the UCSD Guardian. 
“The honor of being elected to this 
distinguished group is an important 
validation of the work I have 
dedicated my career to. ” 
Sallis’ research focuses on how 
the design of cities can determine 
residents’ levels of physical activity.
“We are finding that our 
sprawling, car-centric approach to 
development in the US makes it 
impossible or difficult for people 
of all ages to walk and bike for Groundbreaking Celebration Held 
for Mid-Coast Trolley Project
The San Diego Association of Governments 
announced the start of construction for 
the Mid-Coast Trolley project on Saturday, 
marking the occasion with a groundbreaking 
ceremony at the UCSD Preuss School. 
The celebration included live music, free 
food and speeches from notable public figures 
invested in the project such as Rep. Scott Peters 
(D-52), Rep. Susan Davis (D-53) and UCSD Vice 
Chancellor of Resource Management and Planning 
Gary Matthews.
According to UCSD’s project website, the light 
rail is expected to be completed in 2021 and will 
extend the city’s MTS Trolley service from the Old 
Town Transit Center to UCSD and University City.  
Nine new trolley stations will be built at locations 
including the VA medical center, Pepper Canyon 
Hall, Voigt Drive and Executive Drive. 
SANDAG Chairman of the Board of Directors 
Ron Roberts also spoke at the event, claiming that 
the project, upon completion, would service up to 
20,000 commuters on a daily basis.
Matthews spoke to the UCSD Guardian at the event about the benefits of the trolley system, 
saying that it would open up more affordable living 
areas to the University’s commuters.
“It means affordable housing for students, ” 
Matthews said. “It also means affordable housing 
for faculty and staff. Because even though someone 
may be earning a living, they cannot afford to 
live in La Jolla. I think [the light rail] will give 
many people an opportunity to live elsewhere and 
improve the quality of life. ”
When asked about the administration’s plans 
regarding student access to the light rail, Matthews 
said that it is intended for the light rail to be 
included as part of the MTS bus sticker plan and 
that MTS is working on an application to replace 
the sticker for those individuals with smart phones.
“[I expect that] by the time the trolley opens 
we’re going to have a phone application that will 
give [students] access to the trolley, ” Matthews 
explained. “We are optimistic that within a year 
we will have a beta where, instead of a sticker, you 
will have something on your phone. The plan is to 
have a majority of [bus passes] be reflected in [this] B y Josh  Lefler    Senior Staff Writer  UCSD
UCSD Transportation Services Shares Parking Stats
The information from last Spring Quarter shows “ A ” spots outnumber “B” and “S” spots combined. See TROLLEY , page 3
DATA
By  J a c ky   t o
Senior staff writer
See MEDICINE , page 3 See PARKING , page 2BY  p r o m i t a   n a n dy
staff Writer
PHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE/ UCSD GUARDIAN2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 24, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
AVERAGE CAT By Christina Carlson
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. “I”m back bitches!” - Marcus
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Caroline Lee
Marketing Director
Peter McInnis
Training and Development Manager
Allison Kubo
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Tina Butoiu
Jacky To
Marcus Thuillier
Lauren Holt
Quinn Pieper
Nathan Walker
Oliver Kelton
Sam Velazquez
Naftali Burakovsky
Brittney Lu
Christian Duarte
Joselynn Ordaz
Aleya Zenieris
Kenji Bennett
Ayat Amin
Christina Carlson
Sophia Huang
Sage Schubert Christian
Lisa ChikEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
  
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Multimedia Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editors
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Aleya Zenieris, Quinn Pieper
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim, Alicia Ho, Lisa Chik
Editorial Assistants
Nathaniel Walker, Lisa Chik, Alex Wu, Miguel Sheker
only times of day that had 
averaged more than three 
unoccupied S spots were 1 p.m., 4 
p.m. and 5 p.m. at Eleanor Roosevelt 
College. At all other times, at any of 
the six colleges, there were three or 
fewer available S spots.
When looking at parking 
structures specifically, there were 
an average total of 42 unoccupied 
S spots throughout the day — 20 at 
Hopkins and 22 at Pangea. The most 
spaces, 19, could be found at 5 p.m. 
in Pangea, followed by eight at 1 
p.m. and at 5 p.m. in Hopkins. 
A and B spots were much more 
widely available, with an average total of 640 open A spaces and 215 
open B spaces throughout the day 
at Gilman Parking Structure alone. 
However, the number of A and B 
spaces varied dramatically across 
time. At 8 a.m., for example, 270 
A spots were available — the most 
throughout the day — but all of 
the B spots were taken. At 5 p.m., 
however, there were 150 unoccupied 
B spots versus a fewer 74 A spots. 
Other notable structures 
included Bachman and Torrey Pines 
Center South, each of which had an 
average total of over 1,000 B spots 
available throughout the day.▶ PARKING,  from page 1An Average T otal of  42 Student Spaces Remain Unoccupied Throughout Each School Day
jacky to   j6to@ucsd.eduA Spot Availability
B Spot Availability S Spot Availability140 Arbor
140 ArborArbor
BachmanCampus 1 West
Campus 1 West
Campus 1 EastGilman
Gilman
Center NorthCenter North
Center SouthCenter SouthPangea
PangeaPangeaHopkins
HopkinsHopkins8am
8am9am
9am10am
10am11am
11am12pm
12pm1pm
1pm2pm
2pm3pm
3pm4pm
4pm5pm
5pm
Number of Available Spots Number of Available SpotsNumber of Available Spots250
250300350400200
200150
150100
10050
500
0
8am 9am 10am 11am 12pm 1pm 2pm 3pm 4pm 5pm18
16
14
12
10
8
6
4
2
@UCSDGUARDIANlike us on fb  Data from UCSD Transportation Services; applies to Spring 2016RETRACTION :  
It has come to our attention that the article “Golden State Warriors 
Practice at RIMAC in Preparation for Preseason Game” published on 
Thursday, Oct. 20 had parts of it plagiarized from The Triton article 
“Golden State Warriors Visit RIMAC Arena for 
Preseason Training. ” We apologize to The Triton, 
specifically the author of the article, and our 
readers for this error. We are having the writer 
step down from his current position and 
retracting the article from our 
website. We make no excuses 
for such a misstep, and we 
are taking the necessary 
steps to ensure that this, nor 
anything like it, will happen transportation,” Sallis explained. 
“Lack of quality parks in many 
neighborhoods contributes to less 
recreational activity. These patterns 
fuel the epidemics of obesity and 
chronic diseases. ” 
Using his research, city leaders 
and real estate developers have 
begun to design cities and roads 
with the goal of getting people to be 
more mobile. 
Anderson, on the other hand, 
has devoted her career to nutrition 
and chronic disease prevention. She 
studies the effects of dietary and 
lifestyle patterns on heart disease, obesity and blood pressure. 
Anderson stated that being 
honored for her work was hugely 
gratifying.
“Election to the National 
Academy of Medicine [NAM] is 
incredibly meaningful, ” Anderson 
said. “I am humbled and 
tremendously grateful to join a 
prestigious group of scientists in 
receiving the NAM’s highest honor. 
Over the years my participation 
on NAM committees has been an 
important source of inspiration and 
education. ”
In the future, Anderson plans 
to expand her research to improve 
the understanding of nutrition and diet in the promotion of a healthy 
lifestyle and the prevention of 
chronic diseases.
“My future will include 
continuing to grow my research 
program to include nutrition 
balance studies and improved 
understanding of the role of 
sodium in health, ” Anderson told 
the Guardian. “I am motivated by 
the knowledge that there are three 
lifestyle factors, suboptimal diets, 
physical inactivity and tobacco use, 
that contribute to the four health 
conditions that account for 50 
percent of deaths in San Diego. ”phone app. ”
Construction projects such as 
the upcoming bridge on Gilman 
Drive and the renovation of the 
Westfield UTC Transit Center have 
made it difficult for students, staff and 
faculty to find adequate parking both 
on and off campus. Temporary parking 
has been implemented in areas such 
as Expedition W ay; these measures, 
Matthews explained, have not been 
well-received but are necessary in the 
short-term.
The light rail project is expected to 
impact parking further; according to 
UCSD’s project website, a significant 
portion of lot P705 and a small portion 
of lot P701 will be closed off for the 
duration of construction, whereas lot 
P702 will be closed permanently.
Matthews spoke about the challenges of balancing the 
construction with the university’s 
parking needs, citing a shift of focus 
away from temporary parking towards 
incentivizing public transportation. 
“Over the course of the next 
several years you’re going to 
see incremental changes to try to 
accommodate this issue, ” Matthews 
said. “We have obtained additional 
buses, which are expensive, but we 
know we have to do it. We are looking 
across the campuses and seeing 
whether we can put in some more 
temporary lots as well as a little more 
on street parking. [But] we’re getting 
away from just thinking in terms of 
parking and being more focused on 
what I call people movement. ”
Matthews listed some specific 
measures that are expected to ease the 
strain on the university infrastructure, 
such as the completion of the new Athena lot on East Campus and its 
shuttle that connects to West Campus, 
the addition of more bicycle lanes 
and the current ban on freshman 
parking permits. 
“For the next two to three years 
it’s going to be tight, but I think 
[the trolley] provides a wealth of 
opportunity that had not been there 
before, ” Matthews said.
According to the SANDAG 
website, the Mid-Coast Trolley project 
has a budget of two billion dollars, 
half of which will come from the                  
Federal Transit Administration.                                                    
The city of San Diego raised its 
portion of the budget with a county-
wide sales tax known as TransNet, 
which will also go towards the 
trolley’s cost of operation.NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 24, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
▶ TROLLEY , from page 1
▶ MEDICINE,  from page 1Matthews: Gradual Changes Will Be Made to Address Parking Issues
Both Professors’ Research Focuses on Inspiring Health Lifestyles IN BRIEF    WRITTEN BY
MARIA SEBAS //  NEWS EDITOR
Mumbai-Based Philanthropic Group Grants $70 
Million to UCSD for Research
The Mumbai-based philanthropic group Tata Trusts 
announced on Sunday that it will gift UCSD with $70 million 
to conduct scientific research in the field of active genetics. 
The money will support the creation of the Tata Institute 
for Genetics and Society, to be headquartered at UCSD. 
Additionally, around half of the money will fund the training 
of Indian scientists in active genetics, the San Diego Union-
Tribune reported. The Tata Trusts research gift, brokered by 
Chancellor Khosla, is the largest foreign investment that UCSD 
has ever received. 
The gift is part of the Tata Trusts’ efforts in investigating 
active genetics, which allows scientists to rapidly introduce 
genetic changes in organisms rather than relying in old method 
of Mendelian genetics. According to the San Diego Union-
Tribune, UCSD researchers said that they can use this technique 
to breed mosquitos that don’t spread malaria, a disease which 
kills over 500,000 people around the world each year. 
The Tata Trusts are among India’s oldest, non-sectarian 
philanthropic organizations. Indian industrialist Jamshedji Tata 
founded the group in 1868, which provides grants to promote 
innovation in the areas of natural resources management, 
education, healthcare and nutrition and  rural livelihoods, 
among many others. In addition, the Trusts engage with 
individuals, government bodies, international agencies and 
private sector organizations in its philanthropic efforts.
Friday , OCT. 288–11pm • THE LOFTjosh  lefler   jlefler@ucsd.edu
Promit a  nand y   pnandy@ucsd.edu4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 24, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
QUINN PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
From dark money to 
unparalleled time in front of 
legislators, special interests have 
almost unchecked power on the 
political process at the expense 
of everyday citizens. It’s easy to 
understand the public’s frustration 
with our government.
As president of the UCSD 
College Republicans chapter, I 
want to see our government be 
accountable to all and put voters 
first, not special interests. It’s time 
our government worked for us 
again and not just powerful special 
interests. This is why I am proud 
to endorse Proposition 54 on this 
November’s ballot, which has 
broad, bipartisan support.
Proposition 54 — the California 
Legislature Transparency Act — 
will bring our State Legislature into 
the 21st century by requiring three 
simple things.
Proposition 54 will require all 
legislation be posted online and 
be in print for 72 hours prior to a 
vote. This will allow legislators and 
their staff sufficient time to analyze 
legislation while preventing last-
minute amendments to bills that 
can completely change the intent 
of a bill.
Most importantly, posting 
the legislation online will 
allow Californians to follow 
bills and track their changes. 
Constituents will be able to 
express educated opinions to 
their state representatives on how 
a bill will impact them. When 
legislators have time to hear from 
their constituents, they will fully 
understand bills’ implications to 
their district and vote accordingly.
As many of us San Diegans 
know, there is no easy way to get to Sacramento. We can either sit in 
Los Angeles traffic or spend a few 
hundred dollars for a roundtrip 
flight. If there is legislation we 
care about, it is difficult to follow 
its progress without significant 
investment of time and money. 
Millions of other Californians 
share our problem. Thankfully, 
Proposition 54 will bring the 
legislative process to us.
Proposition 54 will require all 
committee hearings open to the 
public to be recorded and posted 
online. While some committees 
are streamed online, hundreds are 
completely unrecorded. Proposition 
54 will bring the committee 
process into the light and hold our 
legislators and special interests 
accountable. Californians can 
follow this critical step from the 
comfort of their own homes.  
Finally, Proposition 54 will 
overturn an outdated rule banning 
legislative hearings from being 
recorded. Under Proposition 54, 
any individual will be able to record 
hearings and post freely.  This will 
offer citizens a new avenue to stay 
informed and also allow Capitol 
visitors a chance to document and 
share their experience. Hundreds 
of local cities and counties already 
allow the public to record their 
meetings. It’s time the Legislature 
catches up!
Proposition 54 will finally 
bring the Legislature into the 
21st century and encourage all 
Californians to be involved in the 
legislative process. If you believe 
our Legislature should be more 
open, transparent and accessible, 
then I encourage my fellow 
students to join me in voting “Yes” 
on Proposition 54 this November.  Put Voters First – Yes on 54Op-Ed
QUINTON GROUN dS // 
pRESI dENT , UCS d 
COLLEGE RE pUBLICANS
Once the dust of the Clinton-
Trump election settles, a host of issues 
in need of urgent attention will be 
left up in the air. The skyrocketing 
cost of healthcare — specifically 
accomplished through corporate 
greed in the pharmaceutical industry 
— is one of them, and has been since 
long before this election.
SHIP in Depth
For many young college students, 
healthcare is often not viewed as a 
necessity, but rather an inconvenient 
requirement for enrolling at UCSD. 
As a group, young adults are the 
least likely to get sick and usually fail 
to see the need for adequate health 
care. Unfortunately, this often pushes 
students, and more generally young 
adults, to choose a bare-bones health 
insurance that — while offering a 
low monthly cost — fails to protect 
them in a serious medical emergency. 
UC SHIP is an example of one such 
bare-bones policy. With an effective 
monthly cost of $170, SHIP offers a 
maximum out-of-pocket cost of $7000 
for the majority of services outside of 
campus. In essence, this means that 
the maximum a single individual 
could spend on their medical 
expenses in a single year is $7000; a 
medical emergency or hospitalization 
can easily saddle an individual 
with this amount. However, it is 
comparatively high for out-of-pocket 
maximums; insurance plans offered 
under healthcare.gov are actually 
limited to $6700 out-of-pocket 
maximums and the majority of plans 
are significantly less. Furthermore, 
the average cost for someone under 
age 27 is $177 per month according 
to data released under the Affordable 
Care Act, which means SHIP is both more expensive and less valuable in a 
medical emergency.
However, private health insurance 
is also becoming a worse value as 
healthcare costs continue to rise 
faster than inflation, even for young 
adults. In 2012, for example, young 
adult healthcare spending increased 
5 percent, faster than the general 
adult spending of 4 percent and 
much faster than the inflation of 
2.9 percent during that year. This is 
reflected in the rising drug prices that 
have severely impacted vulnerable 
portions of the population. The cost 
of EpiPens, a lifesaving necessity for 
people with severe allergies, rose 
more than 460 percent in seven years 
once a single company obtained a 
monopoly on the drug. Another drug, 
Daraprim, rose from $13.50 to $750 
a pill after a takeover by a singular 
company, which effectively price-
gouged a 63-year-old drug essential 
for numerous diseases, including HIV , 
malaria and other parasitic infections. 
The reasons for these price increases 
are often vague or misleading, and 
it is doubtful that they are really justified. In reality, pharmaceutical 
companies recognize the inelastic 
demand of essential drugs and see 
it fit to dramatically raise prices, 
knowing that consumers will pay for 
them. The problem rests in the fact 
that they continually do so, without 
punishment or regulation .
U.S. Got It Bad
Compared to other countries, 
the U.S. pays a far higher price for 
its pharmaceuticals. The cost for a 
single EpiPen has risen to $317.82 
since pharmaceutical company Mylan 
acquired rights to the product a 
decade ago, far more than EpiPen’s 
$69 price tag in the U.K., which has 
remained lower, in part, because 
the U.K. government and the 
pharmaceutical industry negotiate 
a limit on spending for healthcare 
services and require the companies 
to pay amounts exceeding the cap, 
rather than saddling individuals 
with the difference. In Canada, the 
price for a single EpiPen is $115. In 
Australia, they are $100 for a two-
pack. Charging over $300 for a single 
shot, therefore, is hardly justifiable. 
While it is argued that higher drug 
prices in the U.S. allow for higher 
rebates, ultimately benefiting those 
with insurance, the uninsured are left 
behind, vulnerable to major costs to 
obtain relatively simple products.
Unsurprisingly, money in 
politics fuels this system. For one, 
the pharmaceutical industry has 
devoted $1.96 billion to lobbying since 
2003, an amount only rivaled by the 
insurance industry. Pfizer alone has 
spent more than $261 million since 
that year. What’s more is the fact that 
See HEALTH page 5BY NATHAN  WALKER // QUINN PIEPER
ASSIOCIATE OPINION EDITOR // OPINION EDITOR
ILLUSTRATION BY CHRISTINA CARLSONAs the prices of pharmaceutical drugs and products continue to climb, affordable healthcare 
becomes an increasingly complicated and multi-faceted issue. It is clear, however, that there is a 
need for caps on pharmaceutical pricing and limits on lobbyist spending.
 In reality, pharmaceutical companies recognize the inelastic demand of essential drugs and see fit to dramatically raise prices, knowing that consumers will pay for them. 
“
“
“
“Surging Prices 
for Medical 
Needs: When 
Industry Profits 
Outweigh 
AffordabilityOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 24, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
pharmaceutical lobbyists outnumber 
Congress at 894 members for their 
535, according to Fair W arning, but 
these aren’t two entirely separate 
parties to begin with. Over the last 
13 years, 60 percent of these lobbyists 
had held government jobs, whether 
directly in Congress, as Congressional 
aides or elsewhere. 
Checking & Balancing
Undoubtedly, proponents 
for regulating the prices of 
pharmaceutical drugs continue 
to speak out and be met with 
immediate success. Just look at Ariad 
Pharmaceuticals’ stock dropping 
15 percent last week in the wake of a tweet by Bernie Sanders, who 
criticized the company’s price-raising 
of leukemia medications four times 
this year already. Such greed, however, 
cannot be addressed by the most 
widely-shared social media posts 
and the most well-liked politicians. 
Instead, getting the pharmaceutical 
industry under wraps is part of a 
larger need for legislation strong and 
thorough enough to overpower the 
prominent force of pharmaceutical 
lobbying and money in politics, and 
to prevent the cost of basic healthcare 
needs from skyrocketing into oblivion. 
While preventing the prices of 
prescription drugs and medical 
products yields an expansive, 
complex answer, there are ways to 
counter the money machine of the 
health industry from churning. Price controls, either government-
mandated or through insurance rate 
control, could help drive down costs, 
although it comes with some serious 
risks to the marketplace. Increased 
competition among insurance 
companies, something the ACA has 
tried to implement, is a very viable 
option, but it doesn’t stop individual 
pharmaceutical companies from 
obtaining a monopoly. Ultimately, a 
multi-pronged approach is necessary, 
combining the best elements of 
price controls with increased 
transparency as well as limits on 
lobbyist spending and marketplace 
competitiveness in order to keep                           
healthcare generally accessible. 
NA THAN  W ALKER▶ HEALTH from page 4
WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
LIKE US ON
 FACEBOOK
facebook.com/ucsdguardian
NWALKER@UCSD.EDU8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 24, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEATURES
FALL 2016
M: 9am-1pm
TuTh: 11am-3pm
W: 10am-2pm
F: 9am-2pmAT THE ORIGINAL STUDENT CENTERHOURSQ: Are there any other upcoming Connect events?
A: Yeah, right after that one we’re going to have a second Connect 
event Winter Quarter which is going to be “Technology and Economic 
Advancement in Southeast Asia.” Again, we’ll be hosting it at the Great 
Hall. We’re collaborating with the Global Forum, working with I-House. 
We haven’t planned that event yet, but we are right now processing the 
logistics of it, figuring out what day we should set it on, who will be 
speaking etc.
Q: What made you want to be editor-in-chief?
A: When I first joined sophomore year, I was a staff writer, essentially just 
contributing articles to whatever I was interested in. That’s the great thing 
about Prospect: Writers choose what they want to write about for us, and 
because we allow writers this freedom, I feel that writers are truly able 
to express their true strengths and ideas about topics that they’re really 
passionate about. To answer your question, I started out as a staff writer, 
then at the end of that year I was later promoted to senior editor where I 
managed a group of writers, published their articles, helped them in the peer 
review process, checked for AP Style, checked for factual accuracy etc. 
Then, the next year, when I found out that there wasn’t anyone else to take 
over, that’s when I became editor-in-chief.
Q: As you mentioned before, you have a worldwide focus in terms of topics.
A: That’s correct; in fact, we have a readership in 174 countries.
Q: How much do you communicate with your readership in other countries?
A: It depends. Some readers just read the articles that we publish, and only 
read certain articles that we publish when it interests them. Then we have 
other readers who are voracious and dedicated readers who actively read 
every single post that we publish. Some of our readers are professors and 
academics from universities in Europe who actively read our site.Q: As a writer for Prospect, have there been any particular articles that were 
your favorites?
A: Yeah. In fact, there was one article I recently wrote about the Buddhists 
of Mes Aynak. I was extremely passionate about this topic because I am 
very passionate about Buddhism in particular, and what I was writing 
about was Buddhism in Afghanistan, because when we usually think of 
Buddhism, we normally associate it with East Asia or South Asia. We 
don’t necessarily associate it with the Middle East. But what most people 
don’t realize is that, for several centuries, Buddhism was prevalent and a 
dominant religion in the Middle East. And in this article, I talked about how 
there was once a place in Afghanistan that had a Buddhist influence, that 
practiced Buddhism. Then you also had Greek descendents of Alexander 
the Great living there. And in this article, I essentially explained how 
this was a mixture of Buddhism and Greek philosophy, and that this 
archaeological site, which is unique, was recently excavated but now faces 
possible demolition from a Chinese mining company. So I essentially wrote 
an article about this archaeological site that was facing demolition. The 
interesting thing is that when I published this article, the same professor 
from Northwestern University that I cited, as well as his firm a nd the 
large organization dedicated to saving this Buddhist heritage site, found 
my article. They retweeted it, it got shared much more, many more times 
afterwards and they even commented on the Facebook post.
Q: So the reach of Prospect is really incredible. Right now, your writing 
staff comes exclusively from UCSD. Can you see in the future possibly 
expanding beyond UCSD?
A: We’ve thought about that, but I think it’s best if we just stick with 
UCSD for the time being, because if we were to expand to other campuses, 
we may lose control over the Prospect name; Prospect may no longer be 
associated with UCSD and essentially it may be a little bit mor e difficult 
to get speakers to come here and speak when they may have realized “Oh, 
I already spoke at another Prospect function at a different university.” 
Additionally, how would this even work? Would other writers have other 
Prospect websites? Would they be contributing to our site? Who would 
even be in charge of all this? There’s so many logistical questions that 
would need to be asked if we were to even think about expanding to 
other universities.6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 24, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
OLIVER KEL TON
features@ucsdguardian.org
Trump supporters a t ucsd
Illustration by Christina CarlsonBy Tia Ikemoto // Dominic Spencer
Features Editorial Assistant // Staff  Writer
S.R., an Earl Warren College student who spoke to the UCSD Guardian under conditions 
of anonymity for fear of online reprisal, sits tucked into a corner of Round Table Pizza. 
Wearing a sweatshirt, hood over his head, he leans over the sticky table as students mingle 
around us with pitchers and greasy slices of pizza. Together, we are here to talk about one of 
the most talked-about events: the upcoming presidential election on Nov. 8. Rather than talk 
policy, however, we are here to ask S.R. what it is like to be a known Trump supporter on a 
predominantly liberal campus. He, and people like him, had a few things to say.
“When I go on Facebook, all I see is: Trump supporters are racist. They’re deplorable. 
They’re evil. They’re bad. They hate people of color. I’m not any of those things, ” S.R. told 
the UCSD Guardian.
At UCSD’s College Republicans meeting last week, the club discussed plans for a formal 
debate to decide whether or not to officially endorse Republican nominee Donald Trump 
for the 2016 presidential election. 
UCSD College Republicans President Quinton Grounds told the Guardian, “Trump is an 
incredibly controversial figure and until a statement that accurately reflects the beliefs of its 
members is made, the club should focus on fostering free speech and reasonable discourse. ” 
He commented that College Republicans at UCSD typically do not endorse a presidential 
candidate, yet nationally, the organization has made news. An article from the Washington 
Post back in August announced that, for the first time since its founding in 1888, the Harvard 
chapter of College Republicans would not endorse the GOP nominee. While each College Republicans club operates independently, Harvard’s chapter is the oldest in the country, and 
its decision not to endorse Trump foreshadowed an unconventional political season.
Ultimately, the decision to endorse or not to endorse Trump must be made by each 
individual chapter, a decision that College Republicans at UCSD has been cautious of 
making as they are hyperaware of their reputation on campus. College Republicans member 
and Eleanor Roosevelt College sophomore Michael Capuano further adds that “an actual 
endorsement would likely hurt our club's image on campus, and that's the unofficial reason 
we haven't endorsed. No one wants to take the flak. ”
Capuano, who actually plans on voting for Clinton, feels that the club has been given a 
negative stigma since Trump’s GOP nomination. 
 “Being a Republican on campus doesn't bring to mind images of fiscal responsibility, 
as we'd like, ” Capuano continued. “Now, to be a Republican on campus is to be inextricably 
racist, tagged with awful associations. Saying you're a Republican is almost always instantly 
followed by a ‘Wait, no, but I'm not like a ... ’”
For many, having to be an apologist for one’s political beliefs hasn’t been worth the 
trouble. Many opt to keep their views private for fear of social repercussions.
S.R. has faced extreme mistreatment from peers when he expresses his support of Trump. 
He notes that while he doesn’t feel that it’s horrible to be a Trump supporter, he also doesn’t 
feel like he can walk around campus wearing Trump apparel. 
“I know that there are some people who get really emotional about the election, ” he 
explained. “I’ve been called a Nazi a few times. That’s not so cool. ” 
S.R. also mentioned friends of his who have been called names for supporting the GOP 
candidate. “I’ve had my black friend called an Uncle Tom many times, ” he said. “My gay 
friend said it’s harder to come out as a Trump supporter than as a gay person. ” 
ERC senior Brian Safatian elaborated  further by telling the Guardian how this election 
has been an issue of identity-driven politics: “The flak that I get the most is when people say, 
‘Y ou’re a minority; why are you a Republican?” Safatian, who identifies as a Persian Jew and 
whose parents are immigrants from Iran, argues that our political views should be driven 
by policy beliefs rather than personal identities. “What my ethnic background is shouldn’t 
dictate my politics … Y ou have to look at an individual basis and not split people up on 
ethnic lines. ”We’ve all heard talk in class, around Library Walk, on social media posts: “Trump supporters are _____”; you fill in the rest. But who are 
Trump supporters at UCSD? We spoke to several members of Tritons for Trump and the UCSD College Republicans to learn more about them 
and their experiences.FEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 24, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
Q : First off, what is Prospect? What kind of content do you publish?
A : The Prospect Journal of International Affairs is essentially an online, 
student-run, web-based journal that’s entirely managed by UCSD students 
who write about international affairs. So we cover all the international 
issues that occur in the news: We’ve written about Syria, stuff going on in 
China, Israel, Palestine, Turkey, Brexit etc. And we’ve also written about 
obscure stuff such as punk rock movements in Indonesia to new religious 
movements in Iceland to even Native American culture in Germany. We’ve 
written about a lot of different things. Basically, the whole point of it is 
just to write about international issues because there isn’t anything else 
like this that exists on campus. And we feel that by providing a discourse 
where students can engage with these ideas, we’re educating readers about 
issues that should matter to them because we feel that especially in this 
age, considering this election with a certain candidate in particular, that it’s 
extremely important for people to at least have some sense of what’s going 
on around the world. We essentially publish stuff that our staff writers write, 
which include editorials, academic essays, travelogues — you name it. 
Some students have studied abroad or visited other countries; we’ve also 
published that as well and what it’s like living in a different country, what 
they’ve experienced, what they’ve learned about these other cultures, and 
they essentially elaborate on that. We even publish film reviews and other 
related material like that. In fact, we’ve even interviewed various people 
who speak at the global forum. We’re affiliated with I-House and we do a 
whole bunch of other things.
Q : What is the history of Prospect?
A : Prospect was started by two students in Muir [College], I believe, 
in 2009. They created it because there wasn’t anything else that existed 
on campus — there wasn’t an international affairs journal. You had the 
Guardian that covered student affairs, you had satirical newspapers, but you 
didn’t have one that wrote about international issues that weren’t related to 
UCSD but that were important and significant to talk about.Q : How has Prospect grown as long as you’ve been with it?
A : When I first joined Prospect, it was pretty big, a lot of people knew 
about it. But as the years went on, four-fifths of our writers graduated, 
so when I took over as the editor-in-chief, what I saw was that not 
many were coming back to Prospect for the 2016–17 school year. I 
knew I had to increase recruitment and get more writers. Through 
spamming various Facebook groups, emailing different professors and 
reaching out through word-of-mouth, I was able to get more writers to 
apply to Prospect. And another thing that’s worked that’s never been 
done before is our recent partnership with the Guardian, which I feel is 
very important and is going to be beneficial to both of us since  we’re 
providing the Guardian with an outlet in which they can write about 
opinionated pieces concerning international issues. We’ll also be able 
to gain more publicity as well as get quality articles and contributing 
pieces from them with regards to the opinion section.
Q : What changes would you like to see at Prospect as editor-in-chief?
A : Well, I hope to bring back the Connect events, which is where we have 
a panel of speakers, usually professors but not always, speaking on a given 
topic that we have pre-selected and where each gives a presentation of about 
ten minutes. Then, after those presentations they would address each other’s 
viewpoints and then engage in a question and answer with the audience. 
That’s important; that’s something that we want to bring back. Past topics 
have included the war on terror, the politics of soccer, women in developing 
countries, women in STEM, climate change etc. For Winter Quarter, our 
upcoming Connect event is going to be “Politics of Outer Space.”
Q : Do you know who you will invite?
A : At the current moment, we are right now looking for experts, professors, 
grad students who are very knowledgeable about this topic and a re qualified 
to speak on it. So at the current moment we don’t know who will be 
speaking, but we’re searching.While most newspapers like the UCSD Guardian focus on campus issues, the Prospect Journal of International Affairs chooses to have a broader 
scope, informing students about events happening around the globe. The new editor-in-chief of Prospect, Eleanor Roosevelt College senior Omkar 
Mahajan, has great plans for his publication this coming year. The Guardian sat down with Mahajan to hear what direction Prospect is headed in, its 
recent partnership with the Guardian and what its readers can expect.Editor-in-Chief of The Prospect Journal of International AffairsQ  &  A  with   Omkar  MahajanBack at Round Table, S.R. became visibly upset recounting some of the threats people have 
lobbed at him for his personal beliefs.
“I sold Trump hats on campus, so people are trying to find out where I live, ” he said to explain 
why he chose to remain anonymous for this article. According to S.R., people on Facebook have 
threatened physical harm against him if they saw him selling hats on campus. He also speaks of an 
anti-fascism group on Facebook that posts addresses of accused fascists online. 
“They’re trying to dox me, ” S.R. said. “I don’t know if they’re just kidding, or if they’re trying to 
intimidate me. ”
Doxing, the publishing of one’s private information online, has become a powerful tool for 
shaming its victims into silence. Although it is not strictly a method of attacking Trump voters, 
many who we spoke to for this article mentioned having been doxed or partially doxed after 
expressing their support for Trump.
One such victim is Laura, a Thurgood Marshall College fifth-year whose pictures were posted 
online along with a video calling her a xenophobe after she was seen with friends writing “Trump 
2016” on an ERC sidewalk in chalk. Although she was not connected to the chalkings that occurred 
the night before Triton Day, in which statements such as “Build a Wall, Deport Them All” were 
written outside the Raza Resource Centro, and received heavy criticism, she was verbally confronted 
by an ERC R.A. who was angry that they were writing pro-Trump messages on the sidewalks.
“She was just really upset and yelling, ” Laura recounted. “I was like, ‘Look, we can talk about 
this. ’ But she didn’t want to talk. It was all about ‘Y ou’re a bad person because of this. ’”
Another student posted the group’s photos on UCSD’s Free and For Sale 2.0 Facebook page with 
the caption, “Hey guys! Just wanted to let everyone know that I found some garbage around UCSD. 
Let’s keep our campus free of trash and not let this happen again!”
Laura, who voted for Barack Obama in the last election, has found it frustrating that political 
discussions have been unable to remain civil this election.
“Y ou could wear pro-Trump anything and people will shout at you ‘Racist! Racist! Xenophobe!’ 
and they don’t even know you, ” Laura said.
Despite all the tension on campus, and the fear-induced silence, Trump supporters are hopeful 
for a change in campus culture, one that allows for a greater respect in political discourse. 
C.N., a Democrat-turned-avid-Trump supporter, told the Guardian, under condition of 
anonymity due to his position as a teaching assistant and researcher, that he wanted to see partisans 
tolerate each other's viewpoints. Speaking to the Guardian as a breath of fresh air at the heightened 
tension seen this election along party lines, C.N. seemed to be a kind and understanding person. 
“I really think it's important that Republicans and Democrats value the other’s existence for 
being able to keep the country on track, ” C.N. said. “I wouldn’t want everyone to vote Republican. 
I want there to be Democrats in the U.S. I want there to be Republicans in the U.S., and they need 
to find a way to share the power better and not be so divisive. ”However, while it’s important to leave room for open discussion of diverse viewpoints, most 
students that we spoke to did feel that politics was best left out of the classroom.
S.R. and Laura have both experienced uncomfortable lectures where professors take jabs 
at the GOP candidate. Whether for jokes or in seriousness, subtle references to Trump in the 
classroom can build up into a feedback loop in which only one side of the political spectrum’s 
views are being validated.
“Professors set the example of how topics will be discussed in our community, ” Ground said. 
We look up to many of them as personal leaders, but if they voice their own opinions in a way that 
discourages discussion, they risk smothering that spark of independent thought. ”
He stressed the need for professors to allow students to form their own opinions, whatever they 
may be and to foster a classroom setting that is open to new and conflicting ideas. 
Fear of judgement by professors has been the grounds for which Laura chooses not to publish 
her last name.
“If you’re in a position where you might be a candidate for a 199 research position, ” she 
explained. “I don’t want them to not choose me just because I’m voting for someone. ”
The College Republicans have taken this campus culture to heart and instead tried to encourage 
students to entertain civil discussions with each other about their political beliefs. This upcoming 
week they are offering an open debate on whether to endorse Trump or not. Every member of the 
club gets a vote, but they encourage nonmembers to come and watch.
UC President Janet Napolitano is also a strong advocate for fostering free speech and debate. She 
recently published an op-ed in the Boston Globe, titled “It’s Time to Free Speech on Campus Again, ” 
in which she calls for stronger tolerance of adverse opinions and beliefs.
“If it hurts, if it’s controversial, if it articulates an extreme point of view, then speech has become 
the new bete noire of the academy, ” she wrote.
Both S.R. and Laura conceded that UCSD has operated professionally, or relatively so, in its 
response to the chalking and other related events, but there is still work to be done within the 
student body itself. Although all free speech is protected, name-calling, doxing and yelling at 
students for expressing their support of Trump has done a lot to make Republicans on campus feel 
uncomfortable for their beliefs.
Admittedly, there are lessons to be taken from this. All opinions have a right to exist on a college 
campus, to challenge convictions and reach new learning. It is a challenge to give one’s opponents a 
platform for expressing themselves, a challenge that we as critically trained students should be eager 
to take. At the end of the day, this country and this campus will always be comprised of people who 
share our views or are against them, but respecting diverse beliefs is an essential life lesson we can 
take out into the world after leaving UCSD.
By Oliver Kelton // Features EditorTia  Ikemoto  tikemoto@ucsd,edu   Dominic  Spencer  d1spence@ucsd,edu8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 24, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEATURES
FALL 2016
M: 9am-1pm
TuTh: 11am-3pm
W: 10am-2pm
F: 9am-2pmAT THE ORIGINAL STUDENT CENTERHOURSQ: Are there any other upcoming Connect events?
A: Yeah, right after that one we’re going to have a second Connect 
event Winter Quarter which is going to be “Technology and Economic 
Advancement in Southeast Asia.” Again, we’ll be hosting it at the Great 
Hall. We’re collaborating with the Global Forum, working with I-House. 
We haven’t planned that event yet, but we are right now processing the 
logistics of it, figuring out what day we should set it on, who will be 
speaking etc.
Q: What made you want to be editor-in-chief?
A: When I first joined sophomore year, I was a staff writer, essentially just 
contributing articles to whatever I was interested in. That’s the great thing 
about Prospect: Writers choose what they want to write about for us, and 
because we allow writers this freedom, I feel that writers are truly able 
to express their true strengths and ideas about topics that they’re really 
passionate about. To answer your question, I started out as a staff writer, 
then at the end of that year I was later promoted to senior editor where I 
managed a group of writers, published their articles, helped them in the peer 
review process, checked for AP Style, checked for factual accuracy etc. 
Then, the next year, when I found out that there wasn’t anyone else to take 
over, that’s when I became editor-in-chief.
Q: As you mentioned before, you have a worldwide focus in terms of topics.
A: That’s correct; in fact, we have a readership in 174 countries.
Q: How much do you communicate with your readership in other countries?
A: It depends. Some readers just read the articles that we publish, and only 
read certain articles that we publish when it interests them. Then we have 
other readers who are voracious and dedicated readers who actively read 
every single post that we publish. Some of our readers are professors and 
academics from universities in Europe who actively read our site.Q: As a writer for Prospect, have there been any particular articles that were 
your favorites?
A: Yeah. In fact, there was one article I recently wrote about the Buddhists 
of Mes Aynak. I was extremely passionate about this topic because I am 
very passionate about Buddhism in particular, and what I was writing 
about was Buddhism in Afghanistan, because when we usually think of 
Buddhism, we normally associate it with East Asia or South Asia. We 
don’t necessarily associate it with the Middle East. But what most people 
don’t realize is that, for several centuries, Buddhism was prevalent and a 
dominant religion in the Middle East. And in this article, I talked about how 
there was once a place in Afghanistan that had a Buddhist influence, that 
practiced Buddhism. Then you also had Greek descendents of Alexander 
the Great living there. And in this article, I essentially explained how 
this was a mixture of Buddhism and Greek philosophy, and that this 
archaeological site, which is unique, was recently excavated but now faces 
possible demolition from a Chinese mining company. So I essentially wrote 
an article about this archaeological site that was facing demolition. The 
interesting thing is that when I published this article, the same professor 
from Northwestern University that I cited, as well as his firm a nd the 
large organization dedicated to saving this Buddhist heritage site, found 
my article. They retweeted it, it got shared much more, many more times 
afterwards and they even commented on the Facebook post.
Q: So the reach of Prospect is really incredible. Right now, your writing 
staff comes exclusively from UCSD. Can you see in the future possibly 
expanding beyond UCSD?
A: We’ve thought about that, but I think it’s best if we just stick with 
UCSD for the time being, because if we were to expand to other campuses, 
we may lose control over the Prospect name; Prospect may no longer be 
associated with UCSD and essentially it may be a little bit mor e difficult 
to get speakers to come here and speak when they may have realized “Oh, 
I already spoke at another Prospect function at a different university.” 
Additionally, how would this even work? Would other writers have other 
Prospect websites? Would they be contributing to our site? Who would 
even be in charge of all this? There’s so many logistical questions that 
would need to be asked if we were to even think about expanding to 
other universities.CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 24, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
ROCKY HORROR
PICTURE SHOW
 PRICE CENTER THEATRETahrirWEEKTHISat UC SAN DIEGO
OCT 24 - OCT 302016POWERED BY THE 
STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER
AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
MON 10.24 WED10.26THU10.27  • 8pm
THU10.27
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guardian
Calenda r
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdg uardian.orgTUE10.25
FRI10.2811am
6TH ANNUAL UCSD SUSTAINABLE 
FOOD EXPO - PC BALLROOM 
EAST
Food Day is a nationwide celebration and a 
movement toward more healthy, affordable, and 
sustainable food. Join in UC San Diego's 
Celebration of Food Day on October 24th! This 
years Theme is "TOWARD A GREENER DIET" so 
come ready for some ways to incorporate more 
fruits, vegetables and whole grains in your 
meals everyday! Contact: 
ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu
1pm
ILEAD - IT'S FALL YA'LL: USING 
INCLUSIVE LANGUAGE - BEAR 
ROOM, PC WEST, LEVEL 2
What's up with the term, "ya'll"? What is the 
difference between using inclusive language 
versus politically correct? This workshop will 
explore the ways in which we have been 
accustomed to using language that is rooted in 
patriarchy, homophobia, ablism, racism, and 
various forms of isms. Contact: 
falvear@ucsd.edu 858-822-2090
2pm
HUNGRY FOR HEALTHY: 
RAINBOW RAW PAD THAI - THE 
ZONE, PC PLAZA
Hosted by the Student Health Services 
Registered Dietitian. Come join us as we make 
healthy recipes, hosted by various guests and 
get FREE samples! Materials and ingredients 
are provided. Space is limited, first come, first 
served. Contact: zone@ucsd.edu (858) 
534-5553du
7:30pm
ALAN FERBER - ROOTS & 
TRANSITIONS - THE LOFT, PRICE 
CENTER EAS
Join us for this special occasion, featuring: Alan 
Ferber - trombone, Jon Gordon - alto sax, Joshua 
White - keys, Matt Pavolka - bass, Mark Ferber - 
drums. Special Guests: Drew Ceccato - saxes, 
Kyle Motl - bass, Juan Rubio - drums. Doors 
7:30pm, Show 8:00pm. FREE Contact: 
ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu11am
BODY COMPOSITION - THE 
ZONE, PC PLAZA
Walk in for your free analysis which includes: 
body weight, percentage body fat, total body 
water, and blood pressure. One free assessment 
per quarter is available to registered UCSD 
students. Contact: zone@ucsd.edu
5pm
THE GAME CHANGERS SERIES - 
FROM STUDENT TO STARTUP 
ENTREPRENEUR - DOWNTOWN 
SAN DIEGO PARTNERSHIP, 401 B 
STREET #100 SAN DIEGO, CA 
92101
Collaboratory for Downtown Innovation Presents 
Game Changers Series. From Student to Startup 
Entrepreneur featuring Andy Kieatiwong, 
founder and CEO of Additive Rocket Corporation 
and Steve McCloskey, founder and CEO of 
NanoVR. Join us for the third in a series of 
Game Changer forums featuring Andy 
Kieatiwong and Steve McCloskey, two UC San 
Diego alumni who have made the transition 
from students to startup entrepreneurs. While 
working in very different fields, both have taken 
what they studied at UC San Diego to create 
new companies in emerging technology 
markets. The two will share real-world insights 
in their respective markets and how they are 
poised to shape our local economy and make a 
global impact. Contact: invent@ucsd.edu
8pm
THE JONES FAMILY SINGERS AT 
ARTPOWER - THE LOFT, PRICE 
CENTER EAST
UCSD STUDENT: $9
The Jones Family Singers  consisting of five 
sisters, two brothers, and their father  have 
been tearing up churches and festivals for over 
two decades. Praised by Rolling Stone and NPR 
as  a must-see act   at South by Southwest in 
2014, the band delivers high-energy 
performances that showcase the connection 
between gospel, rock, and soul.  Modern 
practitioners of a long musical tradition . . . 
infusing their joyful, reverent songs with 
elements of vintage soul and R&B.  Wall Street 
Journal. Contact: artpower@ucsd.edu11am
ILEAD - THE STORY OF YOU: 
NARRATIVE INTERVIEW 
TECHNIQUES - BEAR ROOM, PC 
WEST, LEVEL 2
Decorate your own pumpkin just in time for 
Halloween! Workshops are free; all supplies and 
materials provided. Space is limited and is first 
come, first served. Contact: zone@ucsd.edu 
(858) 534-5553
5pm
CAPE TOWN GLOBAL SEMINAR 
INFO SESSION - ERC 
ADMINISTRATION BUILDING, 2ND 
FLOOR CONFERENCE ROOM
Meet Professor Ivan Evans and learn about the 
courses and excursions for the Change in Modern 
South Africa Global Seminar. We will also discuss 
financial aid, scholarships, and the application 
process. Contact: globalseminar@ucsd.edu
5pm
WHY CALIFORNIA'S MULTILINGUAL 
EDUCATION ACT MATTERS - 
MULTIPURPOSE ROOM, STUDENT 
SERVICES CENTER
The Resources and Relaxation (R&R) Squad is a 
group of trained peer educators from the Health, 
Recreation and Well-being Cluster. The R&R 
Squad provides free 4-5 minute low intensity 
neck, back, shoulders and arm/hand 
rubs.Contact: zone@ucsd.edu
8pm
UNIVERSITY CENTERS PRESENTS: 
KYLE W/ DUCKWRTH - PC 
BALLROOM EAST 
UCSD Students: $15. General Admission: $20. 
UCSD Students: Go to the UCSD Box Office 
homepage, click UCSD Discounts, then UCSD 
Students and sign in with SSO. Student tickets 
will be available for purchase upon checkout. A 
cursory tour of the 21-year-old's wildly eclectic 
confections invokes touchstones of dance, pop, 
R&B, hip-hop and a cavalry of other genres. KYLE 
has shared the stage with G-Eazy, Anderson. 
Paak, and more, alongside a handful of headliner 
tours across the States. Contact: 
ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu
11am
ILEAD - PERSONAL MISSION 
STATEMENT - THURGOOD 
MARSHALL COLLEGE ROOM, 
PC WEST, LEVEL 2
Have you ever wondered what your personal 
mission statement should be? In this workshop 
you will explore values and learn how values play 
a role in your mission statement, as well as learn 
how successful leaders have expressed their 
mission statements. Finally, roll up your sleeves 
and have an opportunity to start creating your 
own personal mission statement!
11am
A MAJOR DECISION - PRICE 
CENTER EAST BALLROOM
Resource Fair for UnDeclared & UnDecided 
Majors! Explore Arts & Humanities majors you've 
never considered before! Register 
https://www.eventbrite.com/e/a-major-decision-ti
ckets-277167916705pm
EDINBURGH GLOBAL SEMINAR 
INFO SESSION - REVELLE 
FORMAL LOUNGE
Meet Professor Michael Parrish and learn about 
the courses and excursions for the 
Enlightenment, Revolution, and Romanticism 
Global Seminar. We will also discuss financial 
aid, scholarships, and the application process. 
Contact: globalseminar@ucsd.edu
8pm
THE ROCKY HORROR PICTURE 
SHOW - PRICE CENTER 
THEATER
Ready to do the Time Warp again? Bring your 
newspapers and water pistols to our screening on 
Thursday, October 27th! The event will feature a 
live performance from seasoned Rocky Horror 
veterans, so come decked out in your best 
Transylvanian drag! DOORS: 7PM / SHOW: 8PM. 
Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu12pm
INTERNATIONAL FRIDAY CAFE - 
GREAT HALL
Each Friday of the academic year, the 
International Center hosts the Friday Cafe where 
the culture and cuisine of a different country is 
featured each week. All students, staff, faculty, 
and community members are welcome! Time: 
12:00-1:15 PM | Price: $5 per plate. Countries: 
October 28 - Kenya | Sponsor: UCSD Retirement. 
Contact: maie@mail.ucsd.edu
2pm
DE-STRESS WITH BIOFEEDBACK - 
THE ZONE, PC PLAZA
Come de-stress with the CAPs Wellness Peers! 
Measure your psychological stressors and learn 
more about what makes you most stressed, how it 
affects your well-being and how to keep your 
stress levels down!
10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 24, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDSGuardian Classifieds are FREE for the UC San Diego community.
 www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedscrossword
Across
1. Blacken
5. Exclamation of woe
9. Horned animal, for short
14. Baby sheep
15. Lingerie edging
16. Slugger Hank ____
17. Cease-fire
19. Box
20. New (prefix)
21. Shredded
22. Rents
23. Help!
24. Advances
26. Feudal estate
29. RBI, e.g.
30. Night twinkler
34. Scent
35. Item of value
37. ____ Thurman of “Paycheck”
38. African country
40. Farm vehicle
42. Lennon’s Yoko ____
43. Marry clandestinely
45. Seaside
46. Space agency (abbr.)
48. Wild pig
49. More painful
50. Tease
52. Sunday bench
53. Self-____
56. Kite part
58. Make a knot
61. Pseudonym
62. Requirement
64. Chest
65. Englishman, informally
66. Leg joint
67. Sharply sloped
68. Artist ____ Warhol
69. Thanksgiving dishDown
1. Family group
2. Jack rabbit
3. Munitions, for short
4. Slugger’s stat
5. Choir singers
6. Fox’s home
7. Emphasizes
8. Understand
9. Marathon runner
10. Bother
11. Retirement accounts (abbr.)
12. Musical symbol
13. Singles
18. What attics are used for
22. In a while
23. Not all
25. ____ Bunny
26. Stone worker
27. Amphitheater
28. Forbidden items (hyph.)
29. Cowboy bar
31. Private teacher
32. Love, in Rome
33. Less common
36. Cap ornaments
39. Scrapbook
41. Grub
44. Sewing guide
47. Relaxed (2 wds.)
51. Fable writer
52. Religious devotion
53. Breaks bread
54. Coin opening
55. Grow weary
57. Boric ____
58. Vocalist ____ Turner
59. News story
60. Spud buds
62. Heat’s league (abbr.)
63. FirmamentGARAGE SALE
Area Rugs....3 dining chairs (Jamul) - Area 
Rugs, Used! Multiple colors, styles, sizes $5.-
$20. Shop early for best choice. 3 unique 
wood dining chairs, large style, decorative 
trim, white wash $45. Carpets, flooring, 
decorative, decorations, kitchen, dining, 
living room. Listing ID: 312431402 at ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
Household items/PLANTS - A few sets of 
NEW bamboo cutting boards. eight x 10 
and twelve x 18. (Costco currently is selling 
a set of smaller bamboo cutting board for 
14.99) I am selling a combo for just $7.00 
!!!!! CHICCO Baby stroller, in good condi -
tion but missing seat pad, Cost 199. selling 
for 20.00, NICK NACKS, two paddle ball 
rackets, thick piece of beveled glass for a 
table top, 2’ wide and 3.5 ft long, a dozen 
picture beginning reading books, two rac -
quetball rackets and a can of ball 15.00, 
strings in terrific condition. NEW in box, 
AT&T 710 white business phone 10.00,used 
but in good condition, clean white toilet, 
20.00, LOTS of potted plants, succulents 
and cacti, small and large. TERRIFIC PRICES. 
Call show contact info for info and address. 
PLEASE DO NOT text or email. I will only 
answer phone calls. Listing ID: 312431406 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Garage Sale Bargains - 2 racket ball rackets 
and three balls, strings are in attractive 
condition, $5.00 for all 3. 2 PADDLE BALL 
RACKETS, A few sets of NEW bamboo cut -
ting boards, 12” X eighteen “ and 8x10 , 
(Costco is currently selling a set of smaller 
Bamboo cutting boards for 14.95) selling 
a set for just $6.00, picture frames, CHICCO 
baby stroller in attractive condition, 199 
retail, selling for just 20.00, missing seat 
pad, new 4 x 8 piece of 1/2” drywall cut 
in half $5.00, 1 very clean working , com -
plete white toilet, $20.00. A dozen or so 
beginning reading books, nick Knacks, 
ALSO lots of quality potted plants and 
larger cacti and succulents for landscaping, 
two feet BY 4 ft THICK PIECE OF BEVELED 
GLASS, NO CHIPS, CRACKS OR SCRATCHES, 
used replacement umbrella cover in forest 
green, call if you wanna come by and take 
a look. available most day time hours. show 
contact info I will open the garage on the street if you call and want to come by and 
take a look. PLEASE do not text or e mail, 
MAKE AN OFFER AND TAKE IT ALL Listing 
ID: 312431403 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
PETS
Mini Schnauzer Puppies - 995.00... - $995.  
Mini Schnauzer Puppies 2 months, tail 
docked, veterinarian checked, current on 
vaccinations certificate included. Call or 
text 619-535-6362. Listing ID: 315020396 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Olde English Bulldogge - 1000.00... - 
$1000.  Adorable and playful Olde English 
Bulldogge pups born on Aug 06 2016. The 
pups will come vaccinated and dewormed. 
Please be in touch for info on rehoming 
fee. Ready to go home to a loving family. 
Both parents on site.  Listing ID: 315020205 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Bullys Puppies - 700.00... - $700. I have 6 
puppies for sale purebred razor edge 2 
months old ready firts shots and dewormed 
big bone,big shest, big head parents in side 
for more information at 619 942 4852.  
Listing ID: 314074528 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
ROOMMATES
Room for rent University City - $550. 
Looking for a subletter from now till August 
31 (dates are flexible). Apartment is located 
in Plamor. Will possibly sharing room with 
1 other, and apartment with 4 total. Some 
details: Rent: $550/month utilities included 
(as a double, $1000 as a single) Price nego -
tiable! Plenty of parking. Personal Closet. In 
house washer/dryer unit. 1.5 bathrooms. 
Message me if you are interested, want to 
see pictures, or have any questions! Listing 
ID: 315311764 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
Room for rent Park West - $950. Beautiful 
furnished room for rent with queen size 
bed! Flat screen TV in room with cable TV, 
microwave, fridge, wi-fi, hard wood floorin and complementary coffee every morning 
Friendly on site staff with on-site laundry, 
patio and BBQ area. All Utilities included! 
Close to the San Diego Gaslamp Quarter, 
San Diego Zoo, Balboa Park, Westfield 
Horton Plaza, USS Midway Museum, Fish 
Market Restaurant, San Diego Convention 
Center, San Diego Air & Space Museum 
and Petco Park. The Chadwick Manor offers 
great value, location, and hospitality to 
San Diego locals and world travelers alike. 
Come enjoy an inexpensive, yet, classy 
lodging experience whether it be short or 
long term. The Chadwick Manor is located 
at Seventh Ave and A St. In the heart of the 
financial district in downtown San Diego 
close to some of San Diegos best and most 
eclectic restaurants, coffee shops, bars. $80 
dayly! $250 a week or 950 a month! $250 
Deposit! Listing ID: 315311732 at ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tion
Room for rent Mira Mesa - $600. Room 
for rent Mira Mesa. Listing ID: 315311727 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
t
your vision,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel to 
promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
A.S. CONCERTS AND EVENTS
ENTERTAINMENT
SURVEYWe take your entertainment seriously. 
Give A.S. Concerts & Events your 
opinion on the Sun God Festival, top 
artists, genres, and events that you 
want to see this year. 
Take our Entertainment Survey to
be entered for the chance to win a
$10 Starbucks gift card.
https:/ /studentvoice.com/ucsd/asce16SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 24, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
Riding in off its first five-set win 
of the season, the UCSD women’s 
volleyball team was hoping to build 
on that momentum and increase its 
win streak to three. Unfortunately, 
Humboldt State proved to be too 
much in the back-and-forth affair 
on Friday night, handing the Tritons 
a loss in the form of a 2–3 nailbiter. 
The Tritons started the night 
rolling, scoring immediately off 
of a kill by senior middle blocker 
Meagan Wright, which would spark 
a 4–0 start to the set. From then on, 
the set truly became a back-and-
forth affair, with the Lumberjacks 
closing in any time the Tritons took 
any semblance of a lead. At brief 
moments the Tritons would lose 
the lead (at the 13–14 and 20–21 
marks), but after an attack error by 
Humboldt State junior outside hitter 
Alex Lolland, the Tritons would take 
the lead for good, culminating in a 
25–22 victory.
That, unfortunately, was as 
dominant as the Tritons were going 
to look that night. With the start of 
the second set, the roles had been 
reversed, as the Lumberjacks took 
the lead immediately and held onto 
it for the remainder of the set, only 
allowing the Tritons to tie as late as 
the 7–7 mark. Despite a late three-
point run culminating in a Triton 
junior outside hitter Amanda Colla 
service ace, putting the Tritons 
within two, the Lumberjacks would 
take the set and tie the game with a 
25–20 victory.
With the third set opening on a three-point Lumberjack run, 
the Tritons looked like they had 
lost all momentum from their set-
one victory. But the Tritons would 
remain close, tying up the game at 
multiple points before scoring six 
consecutive points late in the set to 
tie the game at 20–20. Despite losing 
the lead and going down by two, the 
Tritons got rolling again with a well-
placed timeout to take back the lead 
with a 25–23 victory.
In the opening half of the fourth 
set, it was yet another close affair, 
with each team remaining within three points of one another. Just as 
the Tritons looked like they were 
about to pull ahead with a 12–9 
advantage, however, something 
clicked for the Lumberjacks, as they 
went on an 8–0 run to take the lead 
for good. The Lumberjacks wound 
up tying up the match once again 
with a 25–17 set victory.
“We were up 12–9. Really, it was 
just us making mistakes and doing 
bad things.” UCSD head coach 
Ricci Luyties told the Athletics 
Department. “When you have 
those kind of runs where you’re just giving away the game, it’s hard to           
come back. ”
In the final set of the night, the 
Tritons never led. Trailing for a 
majority of the set, when the Tritons 
were able to tie it up late at 13–13 
and had a chance to pull ahead and 
win, they simply could not hold on. 
The Tritons fell for the final time 
13–15, resulting in a 2–3 loss.
Even with Wright’s 21 points and 
Colla’s 15 digs, UCSD could not get 
by Humboldt State’s 18–10 block 
advantage and 0.169 (62–31–183) 
attack percentage. Still, the Tritons totaled 58 kills on their total 73 
points, and sophomore libero Kayla 
Evans pulled off a team-high 40 
assists on the night. 
With the loss, the Tritons fell to 
11–9 overall and 8–4 in California 
Collegiate Athletic Association play. 
Humboldt State improved to 10–9 
overall and 5–6 in CCAA play. Next 
up, UCSD hits the road to face off 
against Cal Poly Pomona on Friday, 
Oct. 28 at 7 p.m.
Tritons Suffer Tough Defeat At The Hands Of Humboldt State
Despite a two sets to one lead, women’s volleyball loses in five sets and looks ahead to playing Cal Poly Pomona on the road next Friday.WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL
BY  A l e x  W u
Associate sports editor
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICSAlex  Wu   adw006@ucsd,eduSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
MARCUS THUILLIER
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 24, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
MEN'S SOCCER
WOMEN'S SOCCER
UCSD men’s soccer continued 
its dominant campaign 
on Friday by traveling to 
and defeating Cal State Stanislaus, 
which stands last in the California 
Collegiate Athletic Association, 2–1 
in overtime. The Tritons now stand 
alone in first place with a 11–1–2 
record for the regular season and 
6–1–1 in CCAA. 
The Warriors opened up the 
scoring at 22:45 to gain the early 
lead. Cal State Stanislaus’s freshman 
midfielder Alejandro Sanchez was 
able to sneak a pass to sophomore 
defender Sean Bender, who then 
shot it into the far right part of the 
net. Bender’s goal broke the Tritons’ 
three-game shutout streak and was 
only the fifth goal they had allowed 
the entire season. 
Sophomore midfielder Christian 
Cordell was able to collect UCSD’s 
first goal of the game at 65:39 after 
a perfect connection with senior 
midfielder Justice Duerksen. 
Duerksen lofted the ball from the left 
flank toward the far post, which was 
then placed in by Cordell’s header, 
tying the game up at 1–1. From there, 
the Tritons only got better.
“The team showed a great 
spirit coming from behind against 
a team that was much better than 
their record, ” UCSD head coach Jon 
Pascale told UCSD Athletics. “Once 
we got the equalizer, the team never 
looked back. ”
UCSD sealed the deal quickly in 
overtime at the 93rd minute of play. 
After a corner kick from redshirt 
sophomore defender Jeff Powers, 
senior defender Kuba Waligorski 
tapped and guided the ball to the 
bottom right of the goal. It was 
Waligorski’s first goal of the 2016 
season, and third overall since 
starting in 2014. 
With Waligorski’s winning goal, 
the Tritons moved to the top of 
CCAA standings and were ranked 
the second best team in the West 
Region by the National Collegiate 
Athletic Association, only behind 
Simon Fraser University. The win 
also brings UCSD one win away 
from tying the program’s all-season 
consecutive wins record, which 
stands at seven and is claimed by the 
2013 team. 
The Triton offense heavily outshot 
Stanislaus by a whopping 20–3. It also 
kicked a total of eleven corner kicks to 
the Warriors’ zero. The Tritons’ back 
four defenders and redshirt fifth-
year goalkeeper Cameron McElfresh 
again remained solid and have now 
given up only one goal in the past                  
four games. 
UCSD will travel to Hayward 
Field on Sunday to play No. 10 Cal 
State East Bay. The team looks to tie 
the all-time school consecutive wins 
record and widen its two-point lead 
over second place Sonoma State. Tritons Thrash Cal State Stanislaus and Remain Perfect
A week after clinching a spot in the postseason, women’s soccer gets one step closer to a first round bye with the 3-0 victory.
Anthony  Tzeng     aitzeng@ucsd,eduTritons In 
Sole 
Possession 
of First 
Place In 
the CCAA
UCSD beats last place Stanislaus 
State in overtime on Friday evening 
to stay clear of second place 
Sonoma State atop the CCAA.
by Anthony Tzeng // Senior Staff Writer
PHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE/UCSD GUARDIAN
On Friday night, in a rematch of last year’s 
California Collegiate Athletic Association 
conference title game, the No. 9 UCSD women’s 
soccer team celebrated a 3–0 road victory over 
Cal State Stanislaus. The tenth consecutive victory 
for the Tritons means they sit atop the CCAA 
standings thanks to their perfect 9–0 conference 
record (13–2 overall). 
The Tritons got off to a terrific start with 
the help of sophomore forward Mary Reilly 
as she wonderfully controlled a cross from 
junior midfielder Jordyn McNutt and had the 
composure in front of the goal to slot the ball 
low and hard into the corner of the goal. Reilly’s 
seventh goal of the season came only with 2:54 
gone in the first half to give the Tritons a 1–0 
lead. The rapid start gave UCSD early control of 
the match, which it dominated with an 8–4 shot 
advantage at the end of the first half. A 1–0 lead 
was not exactly indicative of the play, as UCSD 
was unlucky not to bag another one or two, but 
the goalposts denied the team twice.  
Within the first minutes of the second, Reilly 
found the back of the net to earn her second 
brace of the season, bringing her season total to 
eight. This time around, junior midfielder Elisa 
Martinez registered the assist as she cleverly read 
the opponent, intercepted the ball and played 
the ball forward to Reilly, who made no mistake about it and got it past the opposing goalkeeper.  
Redshirt senior goalkeeper Itzel Gonzalez did 
not have much to deal with on the night as she 
was called upon a mere one time in order to keep 
her CCAA-leading 11th clean sheet.  
Junior forward Katie O’Laughlin delivered 
the third and final goal as she took the ball off 
a defender and calmly struck the ball into the 
bottom right corner. With her 13th goal of season, 
O’Laughlin extended her goal streak to four consecutive games.  
Reilly and O’Laughlin will look to keep 
the goals coming on Sunday versus Cal State 
East Bay, in the hopes of keeping UCSD’s 
unbeaten streak alive. A victory against East 
Bay guarantees the Tritons a first-round bye in 
the CCAA Tournament.  
daniel  hernandez     dah043@ucsd,eduBY  D a n i e l  H e r n a n d e z
Senior staff writer
PHOTO  COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICS