10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , NOVEMBER 17, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDS
FURNITURE
Sofa and Loveseat for Immediate Cash Sale 
- Furniture is in attractive condition as it has 
been a month since we bought it. Please 
contact -- if you are interested. Pictures 
and contact details on Advertigo website. 
Listing ID: 305157000 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Curio Cabinet - Curio Cabinet shelves are 
glass. Bottom with small door. Superb 
condition. Images and contact info on 
Advertigo website. Listing ID: 305156999 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Fir Wood Bar Table and Stools Set - Entertain 
in style with this lovely wooden high-top 
table and stool set. Made from fir and 
pine. You’ll have the best seat in the house 
or even outside to enjoy snacks bever -
ages or a complete meal. Comes with stools 
and table. Pictures and contact details on 
Advertigo website. Listing ID: 305156995 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
ELECTRONICS
Sony Handycam - $100. Sony Handycam 
HDD 60 GB Model dcr-sr47. Including cam -
era , two batteries, camera bag and charger. 
Everything is in super condition. Listing ID: 
305156992 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
GoPro HERO 4 Silver - $300. Brand new 
GoPro HERO four silver waterproof with 
built in touch display 1080p60 12mp WiFi 
& Bluetooth control view share. FIRM PRICE 
$300. Listing ID: 304329629 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
3 Boxes of VHS Video Movie Tapes: Star 
Wars and Other Collectors - $25. Too many 
to list. Must buy all boxes. I will deliver if 
you want. Locally, I am near the 78 freeway 
and College Blvd. Listing ID: 304329626 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
PETS
Sweet Holland Lop Babies - $60. Super 
cute purebred Holland Lop Baby Bunnies. 
They are 8 weeks old and ready to go. I 
handle all my baby bunnies from birth, 
so they are all tame and sweet. They will be between 3-4 pounds when full grown. 
I will show you how to handle your new 
bunny and give you lots of helpful informa -
tion. Please text me at 951-294-2051. I am 
located in Murrieta. Listing ID: 305984269 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Olde English Bulldogge - $1500. Adorable 
Olde English Bulldogge boys born on 06 
Aug 2016. The pups will be ready to go 
home on 01 Oct 2016 at 8 weeks of age. 
They will come with first two sets of vac -
cines. Please be in touch for rehoming fee 
if interested and/or to schedule an appt to 
visit. Parents on-site. Listing ID: 305139578 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Creamy Persian Kids, 3 Months - $500. I have 
3 creamy persian kids. Since I’m moving to a 
place with limitation of two pets, I need to 
find them a new home! They are all healthy, 
playful and energetic. Litter box- trained. 
There is one girl, the others are boys. If you 
could buy two, it’s $400 each. And, I’m not 
a breeder, so they have never been to a vet. 
However, their parents are healthy. Listing 
ID: 305139343 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
t
your vision,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel to 
promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies 
on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.ukLevel: 1234
SUDOKU
CLASSIFIEDSGuardian Classifieds are FREE for the UC San Diego community.
 www.ucsdguardian.org/classifieds
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972NOVEMBER 18
MICKEY MOUSE’S
BIRTHDAY
ALL CAMPUS
COMMUTER
BOARD
enriching life
for commuters
Visit accb.ucsd.edu or on Facebook @AllCampusCommuterBoard for more information on 
commuter events and programs.
AVP of Environmental Justice Affairs
Student Manager of the Triton Food Pantry“Educating people on the 
beneﬁts of composting 
and recycling may not 
always seem ‘sexy’ but 
it’s worth it.”
– Lesly Figueroa
Lesly is the AVP Environmental Justice Affairs. She has founded several programs under the Sustainability 
Resource Center, a student-peer educational program that promotes campus sustainability goals. For more 
information on how to get involved, visit sustain.ucsd.edu. 
SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , NOVEMBER 17, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
NOV. 17
points on five of five shooting, including four three-pointers, in 30 minutes 
of play. Teammates senior guard Adam Klie (13 points), sophomore center 
Chris Hansen (12) and sophomore guard Christian Oshita (10) contributed 
with double-figure point totals en route to the victory.  
In the first half, the Sea Lions came out firing, and the Tritons fell behind 
23–33 with less than half of the period to go. The Sea Lions shot the ball 
54 percent from the field in the half and an impressive 64 percent from 
the three-point line on 7 for 11 shooting. The Tritons found it difficult 
to limit the opposing offense, especially with the overall great first-half 
shooting performance from the Sea Lions. After a hard-fought end to the 
half, however, the Tritons narrowed the deficit down to a manageable three 
points behind an 11–4 run.  
With score at 34–37 at the half, head coach Eric Olen fired up the troops 
in the locker room, which worked to perfection as the Tritons gave a totally 
different second half performance compared to the first. The Tritons shot 
an unreal 72 percent (18–25) from the field, totaling to 48 points. On the 
other hand, the Sea Lions went from over 50 percent shooting to just 38 
percent from the field in the second half, including only 4 of 14 from the 
three-point line.  
While the Tritons came up big and rejuvenated in the second half, the 
Sea Lions came out flat and paid the price for their lack of assertiveness.
During Olen’s post-game interview, he praised his team’s resilience 
throughout the game and labeled their second half performance as “some of 
our best basketball so far … We tried to become the more aggressive team 
and tried to make some more plays. ”
Applying a healthy dose of pressure on the Sea Lions and really making 
them work for their shots enabled the Tritons to get back into the game 
in the second half. Additionally, better shot selection and execution on 
the offensive end allowed the Tritons to pull away and close the game                
out comfortably.  
With three home victories to begin the young season, the Tritons will 
now take their winning streak on the road to compete at Western Oregon’s 
DoubleTree D2 Shootout.  
Speaking of the road trip, Olen said, “The important thing is to have the 
same amount of focus and mental toughness … even more important when 
you are not at home. ” 
Hopefully the players will receive their coach’s message loud and clear as 
they are set to face Concordia on Nov. 18 at 5 p.m. and Western Oregon the 
following day on Nov. 19 at 7 p.m. Tritons Will Travel to Wester n Oregon 
University for DoubleTree D2 Shootout
▶M. BASKETBALL,  from page 12
Daniel hernandez   dah043@ucsd,eduCHeck 
us  Out
Website:Twitter:
ucsdguardian.org@ucsdguardianSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
ROSINA GARCIA
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , NOVEMBER 17, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
UCSD blanks Western Washington to become highest seed 
left in tournament, improves record to 17–2–2 overall. 
by Dev Jain // Senior Staff WriterTritons Advance to Third Round of NCAAs
After two victories, the 
UCSD men’s basketball 
team added yet another 
game to the win column on Tuesday 
night against city rivals, Point 
Loma Nazarene University, with a 
final score of 82–68. The Tritons 
struggled to contain the offense of 
the Sea Lions in the first half, but 
played an inspired second half to 
pull away from their opponents. 
The win gives the Tritons their 
third consecutive victory (3–0) of 
the early season.  
Junior point guard George 
Buaku led all scorers, with 16 PHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE/UCSD GUARDIAN
PHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE/UCSD GUARDIANNo. 10 UCSD defeated Western 
Washington University 2–0 in the 
second round of the NCAA Division 
II Men’s Soccer Tournament. In the victory 
at Triton Soccer Stadium, redshirt sophomore 
defender Jeff Powers scored his first collegiate 
goal in the 11th minute with a right-footed strike 
that was drilled into the bottom right corner. 
Senior center back Kuba Waligorski 
doubled the lead in the 70th minute and 
helped the Tritons earn their 13th shutout, 
the most in the California Collegiate Athletic 
Association. UCSD’s excellent defense is 
ranked third in the country. 
The win over Western Washington marked 
the program’s first victory in an NCAA 
Division II Tournament match. UCSD had 
posted a 0–1–3 record in its three previous 
appearances. Long tenured head coach Jon 
Pascale, who was earlier named the 2016 
CCAA Coach of the Year, earned his first 
NCAA win. 
The Tritons have posted a stellar 10–0–1 
record at home and have not lost in La Jolla 
in over a year. Their last defeat at Triton 
Stadium was Sept. 27, 2015. Sunday’s victory 
also means that UCSD will get at least one 
more home game in the NCAA Tournament.
Pascale talked about how important it was 
to have another game at home. “We’re good 
at home; we’re tough to beat at home and the 
crowds that we’ve been getting this year have 
really kind of fueled the team. So I know the 
guys will be confident going into the game 
and feel comfortable not having to travel on 
the road. ” 
To begin the match Western Washington 
came out striking and very nearly had an 
early lead. Within minutes, Viking junior 
forward Anthony Dean used a good through 
ball to get a great shot on goal, but his ball 
was deflected off of the left post by redshirt 
senior goalkeeper Cameron McElfresh. Again 
Western Washington would have a scoring chance when Dean delivered a ball to fellow 
junior forward Drew Barker in a scoring 
opportunity, but McElfresh stopped the shot 
once again to keep UCSD in the lead.
Waligorski gave the Tritons extra cushion 
in the 69th minute when junior forward 
Uly de la Cal delivered a perfect pass that 
Waligorski only had to tap into the net. 
In the 72nd minute senior midfielder 
Riley Harbour released a shot that looked 
like it was going to end up in the back of 
the net, but the Vikings’ junior goalkeeper 
Tyler Visten managed to knock it out for 
a corner. With fewer than 10 minutes left, 
junior midfielder Colton Ronk’s header hit 
the left post and junior midfielder Luke 
Olney’s rebound fell right into McElfresh’s 
hands. McElfresh ended the match with six 
saves, just one away from his career best, and 
earned his 31st clean sheet of his career and 
12th clean sheet of the year. 
With the win, UCSD improves their 
record to 17–2–2 overall and 12–1–1 in the 
last 14 games as it won the CCAA regular 
season and tournament title for the first time 
in program history. Western Washington, 
hailing from the Great Northwest Athletic 
Conference, finishes its season with a 10–5–4 
record. The Vikings had been on fire in their 
last six games, posting a 5–0–1 record which 
included their first-ever NCAA win, a 3–2 
victory in overtime over No. 19 Dixie State.
Since the Tritons are the West Region’s 
highest seed remaining in the tournament, 
they have the opportunity to have the next 
two matches at home. CCAA rival Cal Poly 
Pomona will come to Triton Stadium on 
Friday, Nov. 18 at 7 p.m. for the West Region 
final. In addition, UCSD will host two Texas 
teams, St. Edward’s and Midwestern State, 
at 4 p.m. which will be playing in the South 
Central Region crown. The victors of those 
matches will meet in a national quarterfinal 
on Sunday, Nov. 20 at 12 p.m. in La Jolla. 
UCSD pulls off a comeback 
to beat PLNU 82–68.
by Daniel Hernandez // 
Senior Staff WriterMEN'S  BASKETBALLMEN'S  SOCCER
See M. BASKETBALL , page 11Swim and Dive
W. Volleyball
M. Water Polo
W. Soccer
M. SoccerUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMES11/17
11/17
11/18
11/18
11/18All Day
12 PM
10:30 AM
1:30 PM
7 PMAT A3 Performance Invite
AT CCAA Tournament
AT WWPA Championship
AT NCAA Championship
VS Cal Poly Pomona
UCSD 
Maintains 
Perfect 
Record