VOLUME 50, ISSUE 4   MONDA Y , OCTOBER 3, 2016  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LIVING ABROAD 
IN SAN DIEGO
UCSD HOSTS STUDENTS FROM 
ALL OVER THE WORLD. HEAR 
WHAT SURPRISES THEM THE 
MOST ABOUT LIFE IN AMERICA 
AND WHAT THEY HOPE TO GET 
OUT OF THEIR TIME AT UCSD.
THE  KIDS  AND  VOTING 
WOMEN'S SOCCERINCReA SING  Y OUTH  TURNOUT
UCSD  Defea ts  Sonoma  St a teOPINION, P AGE 4
Sports,  P age   12
FORECAST
VERBATIM
AMERICAN PATRIOTISM IS A 
LITTLE BIT LIKE A DONALD 
TRUMP ANTIC; EVERYBODY 
INTERPRETS IT THEIR OWN 
WAY , AND WHEN PEOPLE PIECE 
IT TOGETHER, THEY’LL ARGUE 
ABOUT IT. IS KNEELING FOR 
THE NATIONAL ANTHEM PATRI -
OTIC OR UNPATRIOTIC? IT IS 
THE FORMER.” 
- MARCUS THUILLER 
ACROSS THE GLOBE  
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
IN BRIEF  ......................... 2
THIRD-PARTY VOTING  .....4
INCLUSIVE DINING ........... 9
CROSSWORD  ................ 10
WOMEN’S VOLLEYBALL..  11FEA TURES,  P AGE  6
MONDAY
H 71 L 62TUESDAY
H 73 L 63
WEDNESDAY
H 72 L 60THURSDAY 
H 75 L 63
Five UCSD Ph.D. students have 
been awarded the Siebel Scholar 
Award for distinction and given a 
financial reward of $35,000 each 
on Sept. 27. The Siebel Scholars 
Program honors students in the 
fields of bioengineering, business, 
computer science and energy 
science and selects about 90 people 
worldwide per year.
Thomas M. Siebel, chairman 
of the Siebel Scholars Foundation, 
expressed confidence in the 
recipient’s’ potential impacts in their 
respective fields.
“The Class of 2017 represents 
the best and brightest from around 
the globe and it’s my great pleasure 
to welcome them into this ever-growing, lifelong community,” 
Siebel said in a press release.
Ya-San Yeh, whose research 
focuses on using nanotechnology to 
design new drug delivery methods 
for cancer treatment hopes to 
connect and collaborate with Siebel 
Scholars in the future.
“The Siebel Scholar Award is 
not just a prestigious and generous 
award, [it is] more importantly a 
program aimed at connecting a 
diverse group of scholars … and 
creating opportunities to make a 
positive impact in technologies, 
policies and human health,” Yeh 
told the UCSD Guardian. “I am 
excited to have the chance to 
expand my network to include 
the remarkable engineering and 
business leaders within the Siebel 
Scholar community. ”Armen Gharibans, who is 
researching and developing 
noninvasive gastroenterology 
investigations, further explained 
the practical significance of the 
program in networking and                             
fiscal benefits.
“It provides an excellent 
opportunity to network at the 
annual conference and other Siebel-
only events throughout the year, ” 
Gharibans said. “Unlike most other 
academic awards, the funding 
is given to the student with no 
stipulations on what to spend it on. ”
Jinxing Li, who studies 
nanorobots in diverse applications, 
attributes his accomplishments to 
effective teamwork across various 
fields of expertise.
“I have been productive during New Calif. Law 
Eliminates Statute 
of  Limitations for 
Sexual OffensesSTATE
State Sen. Connie Leyva 
authored the legislation to 
address the sexual assault 
allegations against Bill Cosby.
BY   M a r i o   E s p i n o z a 
Staff Writer
Gov. Jerry Brown signed SB 
813, a bill eliminating the statute 
of limitations on sexual offenses 
on Sept. 28. Previously, prosecutors 
had 10 years to file charges against 
sex offenders or until the victim’s 
40th birthday for crimes committed 
against minors. 
The bill was introduced in 
response to the sexual assault 
accusations directed at comedian 
Bill Cosby, who is being charged in 
California with the sexual assault of 
a woman, now in her 50s, in 1974. 
State Sen. Connie Leyva 
(D-Chino), who authored the 
legislation, explained in a press 
release that SB 813 will ensure that 
victims of sexual violence have the 
chance to speak out about their 
case whenever they decide the time         
is right. 
“Governor Jerry Brown’s 
signature of SB 813 tells every 
rape and sexual assault victim in 
California that they matter and 
that — regardless of when they are 
ready to come forward — they will 
always have an opportunity to seek 
justice in a court of law, ” Leyva 
said. “Rapists should never be able 
to evade legal consequences simply 
because an arbitrary time limit     
has expired. ”
While many have welcomed 
the bill, some have concerns over 
its potential implementations. 
According to the Associated Press, 
a number of civil rights groups and 
public defenders argue that the bill 
“could lead to false convictions as 
memories fade among victims and 
witnesses. ” There are also worries 
that SB 813 does little to address the 
underprosecution of sexual assaults 
and the possibility that victims who 
come forward years after may face 
disbelief from law enforcement. 
UCSD Associate Vice President 
of Equity, Diversity and Inclusion 
Minh-Hieu Vu shared her thoughts 
to the UCSD Guardian on how the 
community still has to do more to 
counteract rape culture.
“I feel that it’s our collective 
responsibility to foster consent 
culture in our everyday interactions 
and unlearn our sexist biases, ” Vu 
told the Guardian. “When survivors 
know they are supported, they are 
much more willing to seek justice in 
a court of law. ”
UCSD Sexual Assault Resources UCSD Hosts Second Annual ‘SD 
Hacks’ Hackathon
The second annual SD Hacks hackathon took place 
over the weekend in RIMAC Arena, where over 1,000 
students from San Diego and beyond congregated to 
kick off a 36-hour display of technical innovation on 
Sept. 30. 
Started in 2015 by UCSD student Ryan Hill, the 
hackathon invites computer science and electrical 
engineering students to collaborate on designing and 
building a project from start to finish over the course 
of the weekend every year. 
SD Hacks is one of the largest hackathons in the 
state, alongside those of UCLA and UC Berkeley. 
Building on last year’s hackathon, SD Hacks 2016 
provided students with more resources than ever 
before, including workshops with industry leaders, a 
VR space complete with Oculus Rift headsets and a Makers Lab with 3-D printers on site. 
The event, sponsored by UCSD’s Jacobs School of 
Engineering as well as private corporations such as 
ViaSat, Qualcomm and Twitch, gave amateur innovators 
the opportunity to engage with potential employers and 
allowed interested company representatives to meet 
young talent. 
Hill, who passed the leadership role onto Yacoub 
Oulad Daoud after the event’s inaugural success, told 
the UCSD Guardian that he was inspired to create 
SD Hacks after reading a 2014 Forbes article, which 
ranked UCLA number five among “ America’s Most 
Entrepreneurial Universities” with the only reason cited 
being their hackathon event, LA Hacks. 
“I was convinced UCSD could do better,” Hill 
said. “It really continued to be a lasting thought B y  Ma tthew  Zamudio    Staff WriterUCSD SPORTS
Siebel Scholars Foundation Recognizes 5 UCSD Students
The engineering students are among 90 recipients who conduct research in various scientific fields.See SD HACKS , page 3
CAMPUS
By  M i n g - R a y  L i a o
See SB 813 , page 3 See SIEBEL , page 3CAMPUS
“
PHOTO FROM UCSD GUARDIAN ARCHIVES
 
Photo by Geoff Palomino // UCSD GuardianUCSD Junior Jordyn McNutt runs after a loose ball against the Sonoma State Seawolves in the second game of Friday night’s 
soccer double header. The Tritons would go on to win 2-0.  The University of California 
and Boys & Girls Clubs of America 
have partnered together to prepare 
more young Californians for college 
and increase their enrollment in 
the UC system, the UC Office 
of the President announced on 
Wednesday. 
The collaboration will begin 
with three pilot programs between 
UC campuses and Boys & Girls 
Clubs in their respective cities. 
The pilot programs at UC San 
Francisco, UC Merced and UCLA 
will pair Boys & Girls Clubs with 
the UC Early Academic Outreach 
Programs and provide youths who 
are part of one of these organizations 
with access to resources,            
including leadership opportunities 
and facilities. The new partnership is part of 
the Achieve UC initiative, which 
aims to increase the enrollment of 
Californians and promote diversity 
at the UC campuses.
Upon announcing the 
partnership to the public, California 
Senate Pro Tempore Kevin de León 
praised the two organizations for 
their efforts.
“Higher education is a passport 
to opportunity,” de León said. 
“California will continue to make 
investments to ensure all children, 
regardless of their zip code, have 
access to college — the future of our 
economy depends on it. I applaud 
the University of California and the 
Boys & Girls Clubs for partnering to 
help in this effort. ”2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 3, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEWS
AVERAGE CAT By Christina Carlson
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is 
strictly prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD 
Guardian is not responsible for the return of unsolicited 
manuscripts or art. “We run on Romanian Standard 
Time”The views expressed herein do not necessarily 
represent the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the 
University of California or Associated Students. The UCSD 
Guardian is funded by advertising. j General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Caroline Lee
Marketing Director
Peter McInnis
Training and Development Manager
Allison Kubo
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Tina Butoiu
Jacky To
Marcus Thuillier
Maria Sebas
Lauren Holt
Quinn Pieper
Dev Jain
Oliver Kelton
Sam Velazquez
Naftali Burakovsky
Brittney Lu
Christian Duarte
Joselynn Ordaz
Aleya Zenieris
Kenji Bennett
Ayat Amin
Christina Carlson
Sophia Huang
Sage Schubert ChristianEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
 
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Multimedia Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editors
Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Aleya Zenieris, Quinn Pieper
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim, Alicia Ho, Lisa Chik
Editorial Assistants
Nathaniel Walker, Lisa Chik, Alex Wu, Miguel ShekerIN BRIEF    WRITTEN BY
MARIA SEBAS //  NEWS EDITOR
UC Partners with Boys & Girls Clubs of  America SANDAG Awards UCSD for Green Commuting Efforts 
UCSD received the  San Diego 
Association of Governments Diamond 
Award, which       recognizes employers 
who promote alternative commuting 
options over driving alone.
Gary Matthews, vice chancellor 
for resource management and 
planning, asserted UCSD’s 
dedication to sustainability 
and expressed gratitude for                               
the recognition. 
“UC San Diego is committed 
to reducing our carbon footprint 
and minimizing commuter traffic, ” 
Matthews said. “We are honored to 
receive SANDAG’s Diamond Award 
for our efforts to promote sustainable 
and efficient transportation. ”
According to the UCSD 
News Center, 57 percent of 
UCSD commuters use modes of 
transportation other than single-occupant vehicles, which reduces 
annual transportation-related CO2 
emissions by approximately 55,000 
metric tons. These alternatives 
include public buses, carpooling, 
campus shuttles, cycles and a 
number of others. 
SANDAG gave UCSD a platinum 
ranking, the highest of fours tiers  
for which the Association presents 
the Diamond Award. UCSD is one of 
16 employers to receive the platinum 
level of recognition this year. 
The Diamond Awards program 
is administered by the SANDAG 
iCommute, a transportation demand 
management program for the San 
Diego region. The program provides 
a variety service for commuters to 
help reduce traffic congestion and 
greenhouse gas emissions.
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGsee more atSEND LETTERS TO 
THE EDITOR 
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGCenter Director Nancy Wahlig 
explained to the Guardian that 
the UC system has already taken 
measures to prevent sex crimes 
across its campuses.
“ A few years ago, the whole UC 
system stepped up and increased 
the educational outreach efforts 
that [SARC] has done — educating, 
and hopefully preventing as well as 
responding to those who experience 
sexual assault, relationship 
violence and stalking,” Wahlig 
told the Guardian. “Six years ago, 
[UC President Napolitano] put 
together a task force with police, 
deans and advocates in order to 
bring the UC system together to                                
make improvements. ”
Wahlig also stated that the 
combined efforts of UC personnel 
have resulted in a more efficient 
system that combats sexual violence 
across all UC campuses. 
“The UC system has not 
only increased the sexual assault 
education mandatory for both 
faculty and students but also 
improved the administrative process 
that responds to the victim of the 
crime, ” Wahlig told the Guardian.
SB 813 will go into effect starting 
Jan. 1, 2017. The new law will have 
no impact on sexual offenses for 
which the statute of limitations 
expires prior to the start of 2017.my Ph.D. research, but it is pretty 
much a team effort across many 
labs and even campuses, ” Li said. 
“I believe interdisciplinary research 
and successful collaborations [are 
mostly what got] me this reward. ”’
Yeh added on Li’s statement 
and stressed the significance of an 
advisor and cooperation across labs.
“In my experience so far, 
I find that my advisor plays an 
important role in shaping my 
research approach and developing 
my soft skills, ” Yeh said. “He sets 
the tone for a very collaborative 
research environment where his 
students present ideas in a friendly 
environment with constructive 
feedbacks. We routinely present our research to other labs and vice 
versa, which helps develop our 
communication skills and promote 
collaboration between labs. ”
Jae-Young “Jerry” Jung currently 
investigates and applies biological 
material and structures to real-world 
engineering problem or products, 
but hasn’t always concentrated on 
that specific topic.
“My research interest has changed 
several times [due to moving 
between dynamic] environments, 
from a medical device company 
[to] a national laboratory and now 
as a Ph.D. candidate at UCSD, ” 
Jung said. “The [enduring] fact is 
that I’ve always wanted to make 
something useful for people’s health 
and quality of life. ”
Gabriela Guzman, who focuses on using computational models to 
drive biological discovery in E. coli 
and better understand mechanisms 
such as antibiotic resistance, noted 
that even with the Siebel Scholar 
Award, she is still uncertain about 
her future.
“I am still exploring my options, 
trying to keep both academic and 
industry paths as possibilities, ” 
Guzman said. “I do enjoy the 
scientific creativity and freedom 
to explore scientific questions in 
academia; however, I don’t have 
enough experience in industry to 
say that I wouldn’t enjoy a career in 
an industry setting. ”NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 3, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
after that because I feel like there 
is a huge, untapped need in the 
engineering community. Students 
want university to be a hands-on 
experience, not just theory. ” 
With a substantial percentage 
of UCSD’s student body studying 
computer science or electrical 
engineering, Hill noticed that 
students yearned to solder 
components and work directly with 
circuit boards but did not have the 
opportunities or resources. With 
around 9,000 UCSD students taking 
a computer science or electrical 
engineering class at least once a 
year, SD Hacks created a creative 
outlet for kinesthetic learners, Hill 
told  the Guardian. “Learning is always a huge 
concern for our team, ” Hill said. 
“We doubled down on our effort 
to reach out to mentors, so that 
students have plenty of help 
moving in the right direction with                                 
their ideas. ”
The rules of the hackathon dictate 
that design teams can be made up of 
no more than four members, each 
of which trade off between sleeping, 
eating and hacking until the                                                     
closing ceremony. 
Last year’s grand prize winners 
— UCSD students Chris Zelazo, 
Chet Lemon and Kesav Mulakaluri 
— created a mobile payment 
application called SNS Payments. 
The app can make wireless money 
transfers from a mobile device to existing retail equipment, unlike 
Apple Pay, which requires a reader. 
Recalling the end of last year’s 
hackathon, Hill described the 
“magic moment” he felt watching 
the event come to life.
“It didn’t hit me until weeks after 
the event last year, when a bunch of 
people thanked me for providing 
them with an opportunity to learn, 
discover new things, engage with 
companies, meet new people and 
the like, ” Hill said. “We all really 
love the UCSD community, and we 
are glad to give something back to 
make a lot of people happy. ”▶ SD HACKS,  from page 1Hill: SD Hacks Provides Creative Outlet for Hands-On Students
Ma tthew  Zamudio   m1zamudi@ucsd.edu▶ SB 813,  from page 1Effective Starting in 
2017, Legislation 
Does Not Retroactively 
Apply to Past Crimes
Mario  Espinoza   mae001@ucsd.eduRecipients Credit Collaborative Efforts as Reasons for Winning Awards
▶ SIEBEL,  from page 1
Ming-Ra y Liao   m4liao@ucsd.eduWe now stream 
UCSD’s A.S. 
Council 
meeting live 
every Wednesday 
night at 6 p.m 
on the “UCSD 
Guardian” 
YouTube channel.A.S. 
COUNCIL 
LIVE!G-SPAN4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 3, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
QUINN PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Marcus Thuillier 
MTHUILLI@UCSD.EDuAROUND THE GLOBE
There’s nothing like a good dose 
of prime American patriotism. As 
highlighted in a series of surveys 
at the International Social Science 
Programme, Americans are number 
one at thinking they’re number one. 
American patriotism is a little bit 
like a Donald Trump antic; everybody 
interprets it their own way, and when 
people piece it together, they’ll argue 
about it. Is kneeling for the national 
anthem patriotic or unpatriotic? 
It is the former. Is exercising your 
right to criticize your country and its 
dynamics going against your patriotic 
duties? It isn’t. Does protesting in the 
streets as an African-American after 
numerous police killings mean you 
“hate white people?” Not a chance. 
But arguments arise from the fact that 
American patriotism is essentially 
selfish and individualistic — stunning 
for a country that basically invented 
the hero complex. This leads people to 
say not only that they are proud of the 
U.S., but that the U.S. is the greatest 
country in the whole damn universe.
Now, a healthy dose of patriotism 
isn’t bad. Be proud of your country 
and its achievements. Root for the 
U.S. when the country faces its 
competition in basketball, soccer or 
hockey. Y ou can even walk around 
in “flag shorts” for all I care, if that’s 
your way of expressing your love of 
your country. Patriotism needs to be 
tamed sometimes, however, in order 
to avoid getting to the dark side of it.
Strong patriotism is correlated 
to war, as illustrated in the book 
“War, Its Causes and Correlates. ” 
It can lead to human rights 
violation, as the USA Patriot Act 
does, violating six constitutional 
amendments of the Bill of Rights. 
Strong patriotism led 55 percent of 
those interrogated in a Gallup poll 
in 2005 to say that Congress should 
criminalize flag desecration, which 
is just another way of violating 
on first amendment rights. When 
France refused to enter Iraq with 
the U.S. in 2003, Washington 
restaurants renamed french fries 
as “freedom fries” and mocked 
the French government simply for 
disagreeing with U.S. policy. 
What sometimes causes problems 
in the U.S. is that strong patriotism 
often goes against popular interests. 
Cuts in the military — the alpha dog 
of patriotism — could be beneficial 
to the economy, with private revenues 
going up by $1.30 for every dollar 
cut in the military budget, according 
to recent research. However, telling 
a true American patriot to stop 
being “so anal” about America’s 
army is not going to end well for 
you. The ridiculous thing in all these 
arguments is that evidence clearly 
makes the case: less patriotism for the 
greater good. 
Patriotism is ingrained in 
American society like in no other 
place in the world, and is expressed 
everywhere from manifest destiny 
to your one-dollar bill, on which the 
bald eagle holds quivers and olive 
branches. Being a patriot is in no way 
a sin, but letting that influence you is 
not doing you a favor. It overshadows 
more important issues that concern 
questions larger than whether or not 
your flag is raised, whether or not you 
stand for the national anthem and 
whether or not countries follow you 
blindly into war.American 
Patriotism: 
A Dark 
Dichotomy
In Non-Swing States, Safely Promote 
Third Parties’ Prominence with a V ote
QUICK TAKESEXPRESSING DISSATISFACTION WITH BOTH MAJOR-PARTY CANDIDATES RUNNING IN NOVEMBER’S ELECTION, SOME VOTERS 
ARE LOOKING TO THIRD-PARTY CANDIDATES. IN RESPONSE, SOME HAVE CRITICIZED THE SO-CALLED “PROTEST VOTE.”
It is true that third-party politicians ought 
to gain a stronger voice in American politics. 
Independent parties have not held more than two 
seats in the Senate since 1941, according to the 
U.S. Senate. However, the growth of the third party 
will come from winning elections at lower levels 
and building support locally, not from what the 
Huffington Post describes as “random performance 
in presidential elections. ” We must, in the words 
of Sen. Elizabeth W arren, “channel that frustration 
with the system into making government work. ”
In the close presidential race ahead of us, 
channeling such frustration is more crucial than 
ever. Advocating for a third-party candidate at the 
presidential scale yields a marginal impact for the 
third-party agenda and — given how support for 
Libertarian candidate Gary Johnson has not far 
surpassed 10 percent — is certainly less significant 
than preventing a Trump presidency. Sixteen years 
ago, George W . Bush won by 537 votes. Donald 
Trump could be next.
The Libertarian platform calls for an aboli -
tion of environmental regulation, public schools 
and income tax — a mass privatization conflicting 
with the progressivism millennials supported in 
Sen. Bernie Sanders’ campaign. Y et, according to a 
Quinnipiac poll, 29 percent of Americans between 
18 and 34 would vote Johnson if the election 
occurred today. By voting a third-party platform 
in protest, we detract from the lead Clinton cur -
rently has. Clinton’s policies may be generally 
center-left, but with support from Sanders and 
Warren, she has developed progressive stances, 
such as making college free for 80 percent of 
students. As stated by President Barack Obama, 
“all the work we’ve done over the last eight years 
is on the ballot. ” A vote for a third-party candi -
date may very well obliterate much of the prog -
ress made by the Obama administration. 
            — AARTHI VENKAT
                                         S enior Staff WriterTo  L a y  t h e  G ro u n d w o rk  fo r  a 
Third-Party President, Start Locally
Rather than argue over the significance 
of third-party voting (or lack thereof), voters 
discontent with our current two-party system 
should look toward overhauling our elective 
process in general by implementing immediate 
runoff voting, which helps multiparty systems.
The largest flaw with our current voting 
system, oftentimes called “First Past the Post 
Voting, ” is the so-called spoiler effect which 
decreases the prevalence of third-party candi -
dates by encouraging voters to vote against the 
candidate who they most dislike. A third party, 
therefore, will ultimately hurt its own interests 
by drawing away votes from the most similar 
candidate and allowing the opposition to win. 
Voters recognize this and often only vote for 
one member of the two-party system, not a 
third party.
A far better voting system called alternative 
voting, or instant runoff voting, works by hav -
ing citizens rank their candidates from least to 
most desirable. Once the ballots are counted 
and, assuming no single candidate has a major -
ity (greater than 50 percent) of the first-place 
votes, then the candidate with the fewest num -
ber of first-place bids is eliminated and the 
votes from those ballots are then transferred to 
whichever candidate was listed as the ballot’s 
second choice. This cycle repeats until one can -
didate gets a majority of the cast ballots.
Because voters could accurately vote for 
their most desired candidate without fear of 
the opposition winning, third-party candidates 
would be far more viable under this system. It 
is therefore essential that concerned citizens 
lobby their elected officials to move toward a 
more balanced electoral system that allows for 
political newcomers to enter without fear of 
hurting their own interests.
 — NATE WALKER
                              Editorial AssitantT o Eliminate “Lesser of  Two Evils” 
Dilemma, Change Voting Process
In the upcoming election, a significant amount 
of Americans have reported plans to vote for 
their third-party conscience over the lesser of two 
mainstream evils. In response, many shame these 
voters as selfish idealists whose wasted protest 
vote actually makes them complicit in electing the 
least desirable mainstream candidate. This kind of 
vote-shaming relies on misconceptions about our 
responsibilities as voters, especially in non-swing 
states like California where the exodus of voters to 
third parties happens to both major sides, and will 
not likely change statewide leanings.
Many forget that an electoral college ultimate -
ly elects the president, not a total count of indi -
vidual votes, and this process funnels everyone’s 
votes first through a statewide level, and then 
nationwide. Many states, including California, 
have a solid leaning, and only a few swing states 
remain on the fence as to whom they will elect.
The goal of voting, at least in non-swing 
states, becomes a matter of securing more 
resources and recognition for third parties to 
shift the national discourse. According to the 
Federal Election Commission, if a party receives 
over 5 percent of the vote, it qualifies for a public 
grant of $20 million, or grants matching every 
private donation that meets certain conditions.
If the Green or Libertarian parties qualify, 
this could give them the campaign infrastructure 
they need to participate in primetime debates 
and secure ballot access in enough areas next 
cycle to build movements that better represent 
American opinions. Voting should not feel like a 
twisted prisoner’s dilemma, but rather an earnest 
bid for accurate representation, and — at least in 
non-swing states — there seems like no down -
side in helping secure funding for marginalized 
parties that might just challenge our dismal sta -
tus quo.
 — THOMAS FINN
                              S enior Staff WriterSee VOTING, page 5Millennials get a bad rap. We are called lazy, self-absorbed and technology-
obsessed. We spend too much time on Facebook, take too many pictures of 
ourselves and are too involved with the lives of celebrities. The only thing 
millennials don’t do in exorbitant amounts is vote. Historically, young voters 
have been the largest demographic to abstain from visiting the polls. In the 2014 
congressional elections, just 19.9 percent of people aged 18 to 29 voted, the lowest 
youth turnout rate ever recorded for a federal election. Presidential elections 
aren’t faring much better: In 2012, only 45 percent of young people in the same 
age bracket voted, according to the Center for Information and Research on Civic 
Learning and Engagement.
Making up roughly 31 percent of the overall electorate, the candidate who 
can get their millennial supporters to vote will hold a fighting chance at winning 
the election. That being said, the situation is even more important for the young 
voters themselves to elect the candidate they see fit to run the country. Y oung 
people across the United Kingdom have been lamenting the fact that their futures 
have been determined by their older counterparts who voted in favor of the EU 
Referendum, yet according to the W ashington Post, only 36 percent of voters 
aged 18 to 24 actually cast their ballots. If young voters want to have a voice 
in important decisions regarding their country and futures, then they have to 
actually exercise their democratic right by voting. How to effectively activate this 
demographic, however, poses a larger question. 
Increasing voter turnout for the young demographic has been an 
undertaking for decades. In 1990, a then-Virgin Records executive Jeff 
Ayeroff founded Rock the Vote, the largest nonprofit and nonpartisan 
organization in the United States aimed at driving young people to vote. 
Recruiting musicians like Madonna, Snoop Dogg, Lil Jon and other cultural icons, Rock the Vote has aimed to revolutionize the use of pop culture, 
music and technology to increase political activity. 
While young voters have grown up since the beginning of Rock the Vote, 
more programs with similar intent have surfaced. Chance the Rapper has teamed 
up with the NAACP to have voter registration booths at all of his Magnificent 
Coloring World Tour, while Vic Mensa has made his EP “There’s Alot Going On” 
free to all fans who pledge to vote. Facebook features and Instagram sponsored 
posts encourage young users to register, while Snapchat has partnered with voter-
registration app Turbovote to allow millennials to register in under a minute. 
While using star power to attract young voters is smart, utilizing celebrities and 
filters to increase the youth vote is a tenuous solution. In the past, America’s 
youth were not swayed by Madonna’s Rock the Vote campaign and millennials 
today are likely not swayed by Chance the Rapper’s alone. Musicians and actors 
can only urge the youth to do so much. Until America’s young people see the 
value in voting themselves, increases in turnout rates will remain stagnant. 
The age-old question arises again: How do we get young people registered and 
actually voting?
In order to bring in young voters, organizations and politicians alike need to 
show millennials that their vote matters. The common belief, especially among 
young Americans is that their opinions on issues aren’t valued. Historically, the 
U.S. government has been seen as a predominately white, male institution. With 
Congress currently being made up of 80 percent white men, it is hard to see 
how our politicians adequately represent the American public in terms of race, 
economic status and gender.  Many do not see the point in becoming involved 
within the political spectrum because they see little connection to how it can 
improve their day-to-day lives. This divide is only deepened when looking at the Some musicians have begun to bring voter 
registration to their concerts in hopes to 
increase meager voting rates amongst young 
people. Despite their noble efforts, the only 
way to substantially affect change in youth 
political participation is showing them 
early on that their vote matters.BY AARTHI VENKAT  // SENIOR STAFF WRITER
ILLUSTRA TION    B Y   CHRISTINA   CARLSON
I AM VOTiNG 
BECAUSE  CHANCE 
REgiSTERED  MEI  AM VOTING   BECAUSE  I  
AM  TOLD  MY  VOTE 
MA TTERSGETTING  AND  KEEPING  
THE  KIDS  
VOTINGOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 3, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
Get Your New School Year
U-Pass Sticker Today!Your Ticket to Ride!
Student fees provide unlimited rides for
students on MTS buses* and Trolley and
NCTD buses and SPRINTER!
Between Gilman
Parking Office
and Pepper
Canyon HallOutside
Bookstore at
Library WalkGilman
Parking Office
7–9 a.m.
weekdays except
Wednesdays,
and 4–5 p.m.
weekdaysCurrent registration/enrollment required. 
  *Rural and Rapid  Express routes excluded. 
Confirm dates & times, and get 
more information at u-pass.ucsd.edu  Weekdays
Starting 
Monday 
9/19/2016Weekdays
9 a.m. to 4 p.m.As needed per 
signs at Gilman 
Parking OfficeiCommutesd.comOctober is 
Rideshare Month!
Register today 
for a chance to win prizesWORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
AARTHI  VENKA T AVENKAT@ucsd.edu
LIKE US ON
 FACEBOOK
facebook.com/ucsdguardianeducation and economic voting gap 
among the youth voters. In the 2012 
presidential elections, the W ashington 
Post reported that 73 percent of 
young Americans that voted had 
college degrees, while only 52 percent 
held high school diplomas. Low 
political efficacy amongst non-college 
educated, low-income youth will not 
increase until a connection between 
voting and improvement on issues 
like poverty, unemployment rates, 
race and gender issues is seen. This 
connection needs to start at a local 
level, by showing young people how 
voting for city ordinances and officials 
plays a direct role in their lives.
Once the significance of the youth vote is established, the process 
of registering and voting must be 
expedited. According to Demos, a 
public policy organization, states 
that allow voters to register and vote 
on the same day consistently lead 
the nation in voter participation. 
Currently, 13 states and the District 
of Columbia allow same-day voter 
registration — California is not on this 
list. If young voters were allowed to 
register and vote at the same time, it 
is safe to say that voter turnout would 
increase. For college students living 
far from their hometowns, being 
able to actually cast their ballot is a 
confusing and complicated process. 
Mailing in ballots, changing addresses 
and finding local poll stations can be 
incredibly frustrating. This process must be made easier if the youth voter 
turnout rate is to increase. 
If America wants its millennials 
to vote, it needs to rely on a lot 
more than Snapchat filters. The 
same old tactics of utilizing 
celebrities will only do so much in 
convincing young people to cast 
their ballots. We need to make 
registering and voting easier for 
Generation Y. We need to establish 
a real connection for young people 
between voting and the realities of 
their lives. We need to show them 
that their vote matters. It is only 
then that we can expect the youth 
turnout rate to increase.To  G e t  Yo u n g  Vo t e rs  I n v o l v e d  fo r  t h e  L o n g  R u n ,  S h o w  T h e m  T h e i r  Vo t e  M a t t e rs
▶ VOTING from page 46 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 3, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
OLIVER KEL TON
features@ucsdguardian.org
Living Abroad : 
Exchange Students at UCSD
Every year hundreds of students from all around the world come to UCSD to take in the best our campus has to 
offer and get a taste of life in America. The Guardian interviewed a few of these world travellers to learn what 
made them want to come here and what they hope to get out of their time in San Diego.
Emilia Obarzanska: Tokyo,Japan
By Dominic Spencer // Contributing Writer
We all know the shock of having new surroundings; this UCSD student experiences it on a grand scale. Emilia 
Obarzanska, a junior exchange student from Edogawa in Tokyo, Japan, is experiencing a culture clash yet enjoying 
it immensely. 
Coming from the world’s biggest city, with a population of 35 million, Emilia noticed a change in intimacy at 
the register. 
“I was impressed that in the U.S., you have small talk at the cash desk when shopping, ” Obarzanska said. “That 
rarely happens in Japan, so I was surprised at first. I would think, in the fast-paced environment of the big city, San 
Diegans would seem more homely and likely to converse more. ”
She notes again the seemingly peaceful and slow nature of San Diegan culture relative to Tokyo.
“The biggest difference between here and my hometown is that you don't have to be rushed all the time, ” 
Obarzanska said. “The time seems to go by slower here. ” 
Also, for many students from big cities, the available outdoor activities in San Diego are a big attraction: “I chose 
UCSD because of the diversity of people here. Also, the climate here was pretty nice, and I was excited to live close to 
the sea. ... I want to go to the mountains for hiking. ”
Being used to a fast and intricate metro system, Emilia finds our public transportation lacking. “The access to 
any place takes much more time, [and] the campus itself is really huge and I get lost, which never happened back 
in my university. ”
Pedro Vieira Lomar: Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
By Alvin Chan // Senior Staff Writer
Q: Tell me about yourself.
A: My name is Pedro, and I'm a senior student studying management science. I was born and raised in Rio, Brazil. 
I'm actually a business major, but maybe management is better for me here because UCSD doesn't have a business major 
for an undergrad.
Q: What made you choose UCSD? 
A: As a management major, one of my objectives when planning my exchange program was to take some time apart 
from business issues and office internships. A field of study that I’m very interested in and consider of great importance 
to my future life is political science, and as the UCSD has a good department in that, it was a natural choice. Also, I was 
also very curious about the city, the campus and its diversity. 
Q: What surprised you most when you first came to America? 
A: I have been to the USA other times, so the country per se wasn't different than expected. Talking specifically about 
California, what surprised me most was how people here are particularly open for conversations with unknown people. 
This is a major difference compared to others states that I had visited before.
Q: What is the one thing you want to see/do the most before you leave?
A: After exploring the most I can inside campus, I want to rent a car and travel around coastal California, maybe even 
trespassing on the border and going to Seattle and Vancouver. If I have the opportunity, I’ d also like to have more contact 
with green/solar energy companies, as California is one of the leading places in world regarding these new technologies.
Q: What has been your favorite memory at UCSD so far?
A: I`ve only been here for two weeks, but I already can say that I’ll take the mood of this campus in my own life. I 
haven't seen any colleague, professor or staff member stressed yet. My first impression is that people here just take life 
as it should be: a pleasure.FEATURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 3, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
 
Jane Gibson: Hamilton, New Zealand
By Susanti Sarkar // Staff Writer
Jane Gibson, 19, is an exchange student from New Zealand who lives in I-House’s Kathmandu Hall. Initially, Jane 
was even interested in completing her bachelor’s degree in America.
“I did the SAT, and I did look at coming to the U.S. for undergrad, but it’s crazy expensive” .
As an exchange student, however, Jane gets to pay the same amount of tuition as her home university, with an 
interest-free loan from the New Zealand government: enjoying the best of both worlds for a better deal. Deciding 
to choose University of California was an easy decision; Jane clearly states that it was the most prestigious choice of 
the exchange programs available at her university.
As for the surprises America has to offer, Jane is struggling to get used to right-hand driving and tipping the 
service industry; in New Zealand, service tax is included. However, the biggest difference is definitely the culture.
“When I was younger, I lived in Massachusetts for a bit, and Californian culture is very different from New 
England’s, ” she says, laughing. “The culture wasn’t like the one we were warned about, because in New Zealand, 
what we mostly see in America is MTV , businessmen and crime. ”
She goes on to describe how New Zealanders are much more open to swearing and nudity. An issue Jane feels 
very strongly about is the political situation of the two countries, such as the “Black Lives Matter” movement in 
America compared to racism against the indigenous tribes in New Zealand. This type of discussion-based learning, 
especially during the exciting election time in America, in fact, is what endears her to the teaching style in UCSD’s 
classrooms. As for her overall experience here since the first couple of weeks, Jane finds it interesting to meet other 
I-House residents from culture and perspectives she may have never gotten to know more about, such as Germany, 
Slovakia and Mexico. Finally, she hopes to enjoy much more of San Diego before she leaves, with many things to 
check off on her bucket list.
“On a completely selfish and casual level, I definitely want to go to Six Flags!” she says jokingly, as she and her 
suitemates excitedly prepare a potluck dinner for yet another party with the diverse residents of I-House.
Elizabeth Hellier: Reims, France
By Harrison Lee // Staff Writer
Elizabeth Hellier is a junior foreign exchange student from France. She’s originally from a Northwestern region 
called Brittany, but she attended school in the city of Reims.
“I love my country, ” said Elizabeth, smiling to herself. But she doesn't entirely mind the picturesque San Diego 
weather, either.
“In Brittany it rains a lot and the winters can drag on … I really wanted to be next to the beach and have the sun 
… If you go to the beach and it's sunny, you can’t be in a bad mood, it's impossible!”
Elizabeth studied social sciences at her previous school, with a special interest in transportation. Among the 
things she investigated was why Americans don’t take the train anymore, a subject which she wrote a paper on.
“It’s such a shame; in the past, trains used to be such a big thing in the U.S, but now most cities are structured 
around people owning cars, ” Hellier said. “Everything is so far away and spread out. ”
Elizabeth tells the Guardian that she misses the experience of riding the train, despite the fact that in France, most 
people who ride public transportation keep to themselves.
“People try and avoid eye contact … and are sort of scared to speak with strangers. ”
Because of this, she experienced some pleasant culture shock when she rode the California Zephyr train line from 
Chicago to San Francisco.
“I met so many people and became pretty good friends with them from just speaking to them … everybody is 
so open. ”
Currently, Elizabeth is studying urban planning, focusing on sustainability.
“It’s about creating greener cities with less pollution, ” she explains.
She wants to visit our national parks someday and understands that to continue experiencing the natural beauty 
that she loves, we must all work actively to preserve it. Given her major, she is on track to do so.
Harrison Box: Glasgow, United Kingdom
By Matthew Zamudio // Editorial Assistant
While admitting America’s tea game is “very weak, ” Harrison Box has found a lot of things to be happy about here, 
simultaneously praising the country for its bang-for-your-buck food portions and its “dedication to fitness and exercise. ” 
Box based his choice to come to UCSD on academic excellence, explaining that our aerospace engineering department 
“supersedes that of UCLA. ” By far, Box opined, the features of American living that struck him the most were “the 
weather and the overwhelming friendliness of the people here in California. ” Reinforcing this flattering opinion, Box was 
underwhelmed by the amount of political vitriol on campus during one of the most contentious presidential elections in 
recent history. 
“I have found that the effect of the presidential election on the student body currently at UCSD is far more dampened 
than in Glasgow – and the United Kingdom in general – regarding the Brexit situation, ” Box told the UCSD Guardian. 
Before leaving the states, Box hopes to “explore Y osemite and specifically Lake Tahoe, ” locations that contrast sharply 
with the geography of the UK. Finding his footing as a typically active Californian, Box pointed to the rainy weather in his 
home country as a deterrent of outdoor activities and said “the California effect on [him] has meant [he’s] been at the gym 
every day and surfing whenever [he] can. ” In that sense, Box feels at home.
“I’m starting to fit in nicely, ” he said. 
Still, Box hasn’t forgotten about the little things exclusive to the UK, which become magnified by their scarcity when 
living abroad. Even though he can legally drink in the states, he misses the lowered drinking age in the UK, telling the 
Guardian that “it makes it harder to party with others when they can’t do what [he] can. ” Another cultural amenity Box 
misses is the ability to drink a cup of piping hot tea in peace. 
“I would usually drink a cup of tea in the morning and after dinner in the evening, but that seems alien here!”8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 3, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
ULTRAZONE  •  www.ultrazonesandiego.com  •  #ultrazonesd
3146 Sports Arena Blvd.  •  San Diego, CA 92110
619.221.0100
PLAY THE GAME THAT 
  WILL CHANGE YOUR LIFE...
LASER TAG!
“COLLEGE NIGHT ” — Thursday — 3rd Game Free
LATE NIGHT  at the ZONE — Fri & Sat — Midnight to 2am
GROUP EVENTS — Huge Party Area to 150+ Guests
UCSD Greeks / Student Orgs:
20% OFF   your event!
Contact a Group Events Coordinator at lasertag@ultrazonesandiego.comFall Quarter
TRANSFER@UCSD.EDUOct. 11 | 2- 4pm
PC Ballroom East
FREE FOOD!Come voice your concerns with commuter, 
housing, basic needs issues, and more.
SOFTRESERVES
An A.S. enterprise that enables professors 
to disseminate various course mate rials 
to their students.  These include 
course reader s, lab manuals, class 
notes, sample exam s, homework 
solutions, etc. 
858-534-6256
assoftreserv es@ucsd.eduONLINE SERVICFINAL QUARTER =(
E!
Pre-order your reader online at:
and pick it up at the Student Center softreserves.ucsd.edu
Located on Level 1 at the Student CenterHOURS OFOPERATIONMon-Thur: 9am-5pm
Fri: 9am-4pm
Sat, 9/24 and Sat, 10/1
Open 10am-2pmV
D
T
E
H
V
B
S
E
J
B
O

P
S
HYOUR
NEWS
NOW!Every school year, UCSD 
makes a plethora of changes and 
improvements. In just the past few 
years, UCSD students have seen 
everything from new stairways and 
statues to new medical buildings 
erected on campus. 
Although many of these changes 
have been positive for students, most 
were not initiated by the student 
body itself, and consequently did 
not directly fulfill a need that would 
improve students’ day-to-day lives 
on campus. 
Fortunately, Housing Dining and 
Hospitality services, particularly 
Dining Services, is making some 
pretty progressive adjustments this year. By listening to and implementing 
requests from students themselves, 
HDH is finally making good on some 
long-requested changes from the 
student body.
Ocean View
One of these adjustments will 
begin this quarter, as soon as the 
newly renovated Oceanview Terrace 
dining hall opens in Thurgood 
Marshall College. Since the terrace 
will no longer be there, “OVT” will 
be known as “OV , ” or “Ocean View. ” 
More importantly, however, there will 
be a significant addition regarding its 
dietary selections — new kosher and 
halal options. 
“The new Ocean View is going to be an exciting addition to the dining 
facilities on campus, ” HDH food 
truck student manager Isabella Clegg 
told the UCSD Guardian. “There are 
going to be a variety of food stations 
that cater to our diverse campus. 
Ocean View will be a great part of the 
UCSD community. ” 
Discussions to add a kosher dining 
option at UCSD began during the 
2012–13 school year when a Campus 
Climate questionnaire was sent out. 
Then-Executive Vice President of 
the Union of Jewish Students Zev 
Hurwitz spoke with Vice Chancellor 
of Student Life Gary Ratcliff about 
adding fresh, kosher food to the 
dining hall. They agreed that the discussion should be extended 
to Muslim students who also have 
religious-based dietary restrictions. 
The following year, the Muslim 
Student Association and Union of 
Jewish Students collaborated on a 
proposal to expand campus dining 
hall menus. The proposal was finished 
in April 2015, advocating for both 
halal and kosher dining options. 
The collaboration between Jewish 
and Muslims students on campus 
proved to be a success, according to 
Ratcliff, and a progressive step on its 
own, as differences were put aside 
in order to better both groups’ food 
options on campus. However, this 
accomplishment was not a simple task.
“Y ou’ve got a geopolitical backdrop 
that sometimes pits Muslims and 
Jewish communities against one 
another, ” Ratcliff told the San Diego 
Union-Tribune. “But for our students, 
they have more things in common 
than differences. I think they worked 
really amiably together on this. ”
Muir College junior Ilana 
Osowiecki appreciates the effort 
HDH has taken to add kosher and 
halal options to campus dining.
“I think it’s really amazing that we 
have both kosher and halal options 
for students who have those kinds of 
dietary restrictions, ” Osowiecki told 
the Guardian. “I know a lot of students 
who have struggled with options on 
campus, and I’m really excited about 
their needs being included within the 
[HDH] system. ”
Students living on campus have 
had to become vegetarians or cut out 
many necessary food groups because 
of their dietary restrictions. Very 
soon, though, these students will be 
able to purchase and eat fulfilling 
meals without having to go out of 
their way to do so. 
“I think it’s great to see the 
students commit themselves and make a change, ” Clegg told the 
Guardian. “It’s even more impressive 
to see HDH enact policies and 
support the students. ” 
Food Trucks
Ocean View is not the only part 
of on-campus dining that UCSD’s 
student body and HDH services 
have worked to improve.
UCSD’s food trucks will be 
partnering with Goody’s, the 
popular burrito vendor on campus, 
to create a new “Goody’s To Go” 
truck that will serve all parts of 
campus this year. The food trucks 
are also currently implementing 
breakfast burritos in Sixth College 
so students there won’t have to make 
the long trek to Goody’s in the 
morning.
In the meantime, the food trucks 
will mostly be located in Thurgood 
Marshall College to ensure students 
have dining options until Ocean 
View reopens this quarter. 
“Food trucks really focus on 
serving the students where and 
when they need it, ” Clegg said. “We 
really try to provide for the students 
and meet all of their needs. ”
After all, many HDH employees 
are students themselves, and these 
students help make ties that promote 
new ideas throughout HDH. For 
this reason, Clegg finds the HDH 
working environment to be pleasant 
and increasingly progressive. 
“HDH is an integral part of 
UCSD, ” Clegg said. “Everything we 
do is done with the students and 
community in mind. I also really 
enjoy the opportunity to build 
my skills and help others improve 
as well, while working with an 
incredible group of people. ”Progress in HDH: Creating a More Inclusive Dining Experience
By Noam Leead // Staff Writer
Noam  Leead    Nleead@ucsd.edu
Photo by Michelle Jaconette // UCSD GuardianCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 3, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
ALECK KARIS
CONRAD PREBYS CONCERT HALLTahrirWEEKTHISat UC SAN DIEGO
OCT 3 - OCT 92016POWERED BY THE 
STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER
AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
MON 10.03 WED10.05WED10.05  • 7pm
THU10.06
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guardian
Calenda r
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdg uardian.orgTUE10.047
FRI10.07
SAT10.084:30pm
PANHELLENIC SORORITY 
RECRUITMENT - PRICE CENTER
Lifelong friends? Women supporting other 
women? Getting to connect instantly with an 
organization from coast to coast? Ways to get 
involved with the community while you're in 
college? Join the Panhellenic Community at UC 
San Diego! Visit tritongreeks.org/phc to for more 
information and to register for recruitment! 
Contact: phcmarketing@ucsd.edu
6pm
SIGMA CHI RUSH WEEK - 
FRATERNITY HOUSES - MEET AT 
SUNGOD LAWN
Sigma Chi Fall Rush 2016 will consist of 5 days 
of rush starting on Sunday October 2nd, with a 
pre-rush event on September 29th. All events will 
be held at fraternity houses with the exclusions 
of the pre-rush event, which will be at the Del 
Mar Golf Course, and the Wednesday night event 
which will be held in Tower 15 in the village. We 
hope you not only experience Fall Rush for 
yourself, but you take the time to get to know the 
guys at Sigma Chi.
7pm
UNDERGRADUATE BUSINESS 
NETWORK FALL RECRUITMENT: 
IGNITE WITHIN - MULTIPURPOSE 
ROOM, STUDENT SERVICES 
CENTER
We are a co-ed organization open to all majors. 
Our members come from various majors from 
Computer Science to Economics to Engineering 
and hail from diverse industries. We are a family 
who strives to make each other better.
11:45pm
SIGMA PHI EPSILON (SIGEP)- 
RUSH WEEK - MEET AT PETERSON 
HALL LOOP
Sigma Phi Epsilon's Rush Week for Fall 2016 will 
have 5 events. The first event will take place on 
Sunday, October 2nd at the Bear Room (located 
in Sun God Lounge next to Shogun/PC Plaza) 
directly after IFC Info Night. This will be our only 
On-Campus event. The rest of the events will be 
Off-Campus. Transportation will be provided at 
Peterson Hall Loop 30 minutes prior to each 
event. Visit the website linked below for more 
information about our fraternity and rush events. 10am
TRITON SCIENCE AND 
TECHNOLOGY CAREER FAIR - 
RIMAC ARENA
Meet face-to-face with top employers seeking to 
hire you! Now's your chance to make valuable 
contacts, learn inside information (the stuff you 
can't always find online), and leave behind a 
personal impression that employers will 
remember! Follow these steps to make the most of 
your Career Fair experience -- whether you are 
ready for a full-time position, an internship or 
simply searching for information on employers and 
your target industry. Contact: 
stu-cloi@mail.ucsd.edu
2pm
ILEAD WORKSHOP - FROM 
CHARITY TO ACTIVISM: MANY 
PATHS TO SOCIAL CHANGE - 
GREEN TABLE ROOM, PC WEST
Learn about a range of options for enacting social 
change. Find out where you fit on the continuum of 
charity, service, and activism, learn about national 
trends in civic engagement, do a group exercise to 
solve social issues in a concrete way, and identify 
resources to continue your involvement. Contact: 
ccl@ucsd.edu 858-822-0181
4:45pm
REVISITING THE 2014 IGUALA 
KIDNAPPINGS - THE GREAT HALL 
AT I-HOUSE
Ghosts of Guerrero, Two Years Later: Revisiting the 
2014 Iguala Kidnappings September 26, 2016 
marked the second anniversary of the mass 
kidnapping, murders, and desecrations of 43 
Mexican students from Ayotzinapa Rural Teacher's 
College. Join UC San Diego's Center for US Mexican 
Studies as they revisit this tragedy to examine 
larger issues of race, class, and state violence 
continuing to haunt youth development and 
popular activism in Mexico. Contact: 
ihousemarketing@ucsd.edu
5pm
STUDY ABROAD: ECONOMICS 
AND BUSINESS - STUDY ABROAD 
OFFICE
Come and learn about studying abroad as an 
Economics/Business major. Contact: 
jminert@ucsd.edu
6pm
SIGMA CHI RUSH WEEK 
FRATERNITY HOUSES - MEET AT 
SUNGOD LAWN
Sigma Chi Fall Rush 2016 will consist of 5 days of 
rush starting on 10/2, with a pre-rush event on 
September 29th. All events will be held at 
fraternity houses with the exclusions of the 
pre-rush event, which will be at the Del Mar Golf 
Course, and the Wednesday night event which will 
be held in Tower 15 in the village. We hope you not 
only experience Fall Rush for yourself, but you take 
the time to get to know the guys at Sigma Chi.
7pm
WEDNESDAYS@7 PRESENTS ALECK 
KARIS - CONRAD PREBYS 
CONCERT HALL
Pianist Aleck Karis begins the 2016-2017 
Wednesdays@7 concert series with an evening of 
solo piano pieces by Claude Debussy, Victor Ibarra, 
Lei Liang and Harrison Birtwistle. Tickets GA: 
$15.50, UC San Diego faculty, staff, Friends of 
Music and alumni: $10.50, students w/ ID: free 
Contact: mroos@ucsd.edu5pm
WELCOME BACK MIXER -  
GREAT HALL, I HOUSE, ERC
Have you returned from Study Abroad and want to 
connect with others who have been to your 
country? Are you interested in going on Study 
Abroad? Join other students at your country table 
of interest for a fun mixer! Free Pizza! RSVP here: 
bit.ly/WelcomeBackMixerFall16 Contact: 
jminert@ucsd.edu
7pm
MUIR MUSICAL INFO SESSION - 
MARIPOSA ROOM
Are you interested in musical theatre on campus? 
Muir Musical is a student organization that 
produces a Broadway-scale production each year, 
made up entirely of Tritons from all 6 UCSD 
colleges. This year, Muir Musical Ensemble is 
excited to produce "Spring Awakening," a 
coming-of-age rock musical set in 19th century 
Germany. Whether you are eager to perform 
onstage, work behind the scenes, or play in the 
orchestra pit, Muir Musical invites you to join us 
at an information session to learn more about 
how you can get involved. Contact: 
Info@muirmusical.org
11am
2016 FALL COMMUNITY 
SERVICE FAIR - LIBRARY WALK
Check out the wide array of service organizations 
that UCSD offers! The fair will not only help you 
learn how, but why you should volunteer. The 
opportunities are endless! And guess what... the 
fair will be POKEMON THEMED. Contact: 
vps@ucsdcki.org
7pm
OUT OF STATE STUDENT MIXER 
- SUN GOD LAWN
Come meet other out of state students at UC San 
Diego. This event is open to ALL out of state 
undergraduate students at UCSD to strengthen 
our out of state community here! Contact: 
grfuller@ucsd.edu12pm
INTERNATIONAL FRIDAY CAFE - 
GREAT HALL
Each Friday of the academic year, the 
International Center hosts the Friday Cafe where 
the culture and cuisine of a different country is 
featured each week. Meet people from around the 
world, enjoy international music, and explore 
world cultures all while enjoying a delicious meal 
from countries around the world. All students, 
staff, faculty, and community members are 
welcome!
7pm
UCSD WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL VS 
SF STATE - UCSD RIMAC ARENA
Come out and support your UCSD Women's 
Volleyball team as they face off against San 
Francisco State! Contact: 
tritonfrontdesk@ucsd.edu
9pm
TRITON FEST - HAUNTED 
HOEDOWN - STUDENT CENTER
We're gearing up for Halloween at UCSD - 
country-style! Come brave through a haunted 
trail, learn to line dance, compete in carnival 
games, and enjoy some free, late-night BBQ. This 
year's theme: Netflix's STRANGER THINGS!  
Contact: faantonio@ucsd.edu
9am
TRITON FEST - GLOBAL NIGHT 
MARKET - INTERNATIONAL LANE
Explore the world without leaving your UCSD 
backyard! Join us as we transform International 
Lane into a lively night market, filled with exciting 
nightly entertainment and delicious food from 
around the world. Eat, karaoke, and dance the 
night away with your friends and fellow Tritons! 
Contact: faantonio@ucsd.edu10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 3, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDSGuardian Classifieds are FREE for the UC San Diego community.
 www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedscrossword
Across
1. Stomach-turning
5. Remove, as a brooch
10. Seven-year phenomenon
14. ___ of the above
15. Everybody’s opposite
16. Reduce to tears, in a way
17. Pessimistic ‘’almost’’
20. It may be cocked
21. They have teeth
22. Traditional truism
23. Brand with two blades
24. Vague amount
26. Pessimistic loser’s lament
33. Rose pest
34. Julia of films
35. Hupmobile contemporary
36. Filthy deposit
37. Removes extraneous material
39. Declare untrue
40. Part of Ralph Kramden’s laugh
41. ‘’With ___ ring ... ’’
42. Fish in a comedy
43. Pessimistic observation
47. No picnic
48. Sandusky Bay lake
49. Second-generation Japanese-
American
52. Written agreement between two 
sovereigns
53. In the past
56. Pessimistic prediction
60. Group of sled dogs, e.g.
61. Shinto gateway
62. Like some details
63. Gwyneth Paltrow title character, 
1996
64. Like crossword puzzles
65. TiptopDown
1. Creep (along)
2. Pop choice
3. Scout’s creation
4. One of two definitive responses
5. Still in the oven, so to speak
6. Chewy confection
7. Gardening supplies
8. Motel alternative
9. Keanu Reeves character
10. Footnote word
11. Caesar’s cloak
12. Jagged rock
13. Where ‘’you are’’
18. Outward, anatomically
19. Bactrian beast
23. Corrosive stuff
24. Mongkut’s kingdom
25. Burden
26. America’s Cup entrant
27. Big name on TV
28. ‘’Star Trek’’ role
29. One placed to get slapped
30. Sports venue
31. Tennis great Ivan
32. True to the cause
37. ‘’Kon-Tiki’’ author Heyerdahl
38. Gruyere coat
39. Specified day
41. Jumping frog creator
42. ‘’___ minute, Mr. Postman’’
44. Friend of Louise, in a film
45. Term of affection
46. Greenhouse plant, perhaps
49. Evening, in adspeak
50. Whatsis
51. Cutting criticism
52. Where the Ucayali flows
53. Per unit
54. ‘’Chicago’’ star
55. Variety of chalcedony
57. All-encompassing abbr.
58. Setting on a CD player
59. Links lettersAUTOMOTIVE
Pitstop Auto Spa Center - 20% Off Auto Detail 
Services Mira Mesa - Expires. CAR WASHES - 
AUTO DETAILING. Listing ID: 306503332 at ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Clairemont Car Wash - $10 Off Car Wash, Hand 
Wax & Tire Treatment - Clairemont - CAR WASHES 
- AUTO DETAILING. Listing ID: 306503328 at ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more information
AAA Japanese Car Specialists - Oil Change 
Special San Diego $14.95* - Expires - GENERAL 
AUTO REPAIR. Listing ID: 307261269 at ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more information
BIKE
My Precor Commercial Recumbent Bike for your 
elliptical -  Looking to trade my precor C846 
commercial recumbent bike for a heavy duty 
elliptical machine. Please don’t offer light duty 
elliptical machines. This recumbent bike was 
used in a small gym with regular maintenance 
and is in attractive condition. New battery less 
than a year ago. Listing ID: 306503162 at ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Modified Pocket Bike. x7 Model Fast! (San diego) 
- $250. Nice x7 49cc pocket bike gets up to 
about 45 almost 50. Has brand new seat head -
light air filter boost bottle velocity stack and 
a new nitrous kit. Needs a good carb cleaning 
from sitting for a month or so asking $250 cash.
show contact information Listing ID: 306503161 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
TRADE MY 2003 HOG BIKE - FOR YOUR XLNT 
MPG CAR (San Diego) -  TRADE MY CLEAN TITLE 
BIKE FOR YOUR CAR. YOUR CAR MUST BE A 
RELIABLE four CYLINDER CLEAN TITLE CAR THAT 
GETS 35 MPG. NO JUNKERS OR PILE OF CRAP 
HOOPTIES!!! I WANT A RELIABLE GAS SAVER CAR 
TO TRADE FOR MY MOTORCYCLE!! MY BIKE IS A : 
2003 KAWASAKI NOMAD 1500cc FUEL INJECTED 
VERY WELL TAKEN CARE NEVER CRASHED OR 
LAID DOWN CLEAN TITLE LOTS OF EXTRAS I 
PUT ON THE BIKE, .....I’M THE 2CD OWNER. NEW 
TIRES NEW BRAKES COBRA DUAL EXHAUST 
SYSTEM HANDLEBAR RISERS HARD CASE SIDE 
BAGS THAT LOCK HELMET LOCKS 2 OF THEM 
STEERING LOCK 6 PACK RACK AFTERMARKET 
LIGHT BAR WITH LIGHTS BIKE COVER NO ISSUES 
AT ALL WITH MY BIKE. READY TO HIT THE ROAD! 
DON’T RIDE ANYMORE. CALLS ONLY ---/619 ~ 7 
1 5 ~ 0056/--- PLEASE DON’T WASTE MY TIME 
AND I WONT WASTE YOURS. THIS IS A SUPER 
CLEAN BIKE WITH VERY LOW MILES. ONLY 20,000 
ORIGINAL MILES PULL A CARFAX ON MY BIKE 
AND SEE FOR YOURSELF. I WANT A RELIABLE 
CAR AND I’M WILLING TO TRADE MY BIKE, AND 
CASH FOR EQUAL VALUE TRADE ! Listing ID: 306503160 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
INTERNSHIPS
Sales Solutions Representative ($34k) - Insight  - 
As a Sales Solutions Representative for Insight, 
you will enter a high-energy and tech savvy 
world. We are looking for someone who is 
self-motivated, a team player and will own 
the operational processes of their assigned 
accounts within their assigned market teams. 
If you’re client focused, a great communicator 
and quick on your feet, then you could be the 
next Sales Solution Representative that we’re 
looking for! On a daily basis you will: - Take 
ownership. You are responsible for managing 
accounts and identifying additional opportuni -
ties within your current and future clients with 
your team of Account Executives. - Be chal -
lenged. You will be ready to provide support to 
the sales team during transactions with existing 
clients. - Communicate. You will proactively 
assist clients by finding solutions that are right 
for them and by guiding them through the pre -
sales process. - Build relationships. You will work 
closely with your team of Account Executives 
to build quotes, navigate solutions, conduct 
client calls, etc. - Multi-task: On a daily basis you 
will be quoting, ordering, managing your voice 
and email boxes, submitting parts requests, 
and managing fulfillment.  - You will also be 
performing pre-sales qualification of license 
programs, product pricing, parts research, con -
figuration and product information all in a day’s 
work! $34K. Listing ID: 307758108 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
Sales & Marketing Development Program - Shea 
Homes - You can take a job or you can develop 
a career. Join the Trilogy Sales &amp; Marketing 
Development Program and get the experience 
you need to succeed in the exciting and reward -
ing field of residential real estate!  You will 
enjoy on-the-job training and excellent work 
experience all while being part of a dynamic 
and skilled team whose mission is to deliver a 
superior product and outstanding customer sat -
isfaction to our Members. Candidates will begin 
their career as Assistant Sales Agents. Here, 
candidates learn the inner-workings of the Sales 
operation, setting the proper base for growth 
into a professional selling role. During this ini -
tial time, candidates will also complete Shea’s 
proprietary sales training process, Foundations. 
Once the training has been completed, the 
candidate will rotate into the first of their sales 
positions, the Jr. Sales Agent role. Here, candi -
dates support experienced Sales Agents and Sr. 
Sales Agents in their service of Trilogy guests 
who are looking to purchase a home. This expe -
rience will allow the candidate to practice and 
perfect their personal approach to sales, while 
demonstrating total proficiency in Foundations. 
Finally, after various performance goals have 
been achieved, the candidate will be eligible 
to move into the Sales Agent role, where they will be fully responsible for selling new homes 
and delivery of world-class customer service to 
their Guests. Mastery of this role will allow the 
candidate to move to the Sr. Sales Agent posi -
tion. Competitive. Listing ID: 306484397 at ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more information
NYC Cebador (sales & service rep) - $50k  - 
Guayaki - Cebadors (sales and service reps) for 
hire! Guayaki’s team of adventurous, engag -
ing and creative cebadors and cebadoras is 
expanding! We are looking for likeminded 
people to join us in building a great company. 
The lifestyle involves the cebador as the mobile 
brand ambassador who, as representative of the 
company, travels throughout his/her territory 
spreading the good word of Guayaki and yerba 
mate. If this looks like the life for you, please 
write to us. This is a dynamic role that demands 
immersion in the New York City market and 
its countless communities. Responsibilities 
include: - Working closely with our distribu -
tor partners and their sales reps to build the 
brand in the NYC market - Thinking strategi -
cally to set and accomplish sales goals in the 
region - Strengthening relationships with 800+ 
accounts including natural food stores, gro -
cery chains, Whole Foods, convenience stores 
- Building and maintaining partnerships with 
local universities and student ambassadors to 
foster the Yerba Mate movement in the col -
lege sphere - Activating lifestyle pockets and 
connecting with taste making individuals via 
events and product donation $50k. Listing ID: 
305665949 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
t
your vision,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel to 
promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
HAVE YOU SEEN THI S GIRL ?
Short red hair, br own e yes, 5’10 ”
Last seen September the 16th , 9pmBARBARA HOLLAND
MISS INGIf seen contact H awkins Police: 
or report to Haunted Hoedown
October 7 • 9m • Student Center48 Pr ay Street, H awkins, IN
858-333-9612SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 3, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
FALL 2016
M: 9am-1pm
TuTh: 11am-3pm
W: 10am-2pm
F: 9am-2pmAT THE ORIGINAL STUDENT CENTERHOURS
Riding on a three-game winning 
streak, the UCSD’s women’s 
volleyball team went into this week’s 
action with high confidence and 
took on northern California rivals 
Cal State East Bay on Friday and 
Cal State Monterey Bay on Saturday. 
Neither school was a match for 
the UCSD women as the Tritons 
made easy business out of the two, 
only conceding one set in the two 
matches combined. With a 3–0 
victory over East Bay and a 3–1 
victory over Monterey Bay, UCSD 
extended its win streak to five and 
remained undefeated in conference 
play, 5–0. 
UCSD vs. Cal State East Bay
On the road, the Tritons swept 
East Bay with scores of 25–23, 
25–20 and 25–18 with the help 
of 26 combined points by outside 
hitters senior Meagan Wright and 
freshman Jessyca Beksa. While 
UCSD has started conference play 
with flying colors, the same cannot 
be said for East Bay as it falls to a 
1–4 conference record.
Wright led the team with 13.5 
points, 12 kills and 11 digs all 
which contributed to her .312 hit 
percentage in a total of 32 attacks. 
Wright played an efficient game as 
she only made two errors on the 
night and earned her ninth double-
double of the season.  
Beksa also contributed nicely, 
finishing with 12.5 points, 10 kills 
and 4 digs.
On the theme of contribution, 
sophomore setter Kayla Evans 
earned a double-double off of 
22 assists and 11 digs alongside junior Amanda Colla, who added a 
defensive spark with 13 digs.
The Tritons offensively hit .299 
(50–12–127), the best of the season 
thus far, while holding East Bay to 
.217 (38–12–120).  
“It was a good road win against a 
team that is always difficult to stop 
offensively, ” UCSD head coach Ricci 
Luyties told UCSD Athletics. 
Despite an efficient night, 
UCSD surprisingly almost lost the 
first set after leading 21–14; the 
team allowed the Pioneers to crawl 
back into the game, as they won 
eight consecutive points and took a 
22–21 lead. The Tritons prevailed, 
however, after a costly error on East 
Bay’s part gave them the first set.
The second set was tight as well, 
with the score leveled at 18, but 
once again UCSD prevailed, scoring 
seven of the final nine points to give 
the team a comfortable 2–0 lead 
going into the third set. 
The momentum shifted toward 
East Bay early in the third set as 
the team got off to a 5–7 lead. The 
Tritons did not fold and instead 
responded with six unanswered 
points to turn it around, 11–7.  
From that point on, UCSD took 
control and was able to get the win 
in straight sets.
UCSD vs. Cal State Monterey Bay
Despite losing the first set, the 
Tritons showed their resilience in 
winning the following three sets to 
take care of business in the second 
game of the road trip: 18–25, 25–22, 
25–15 and 25–12.  
With the win, UCSD moves 
on to 8–5 overall and 5–0 in 
conference play while Monterey 
Bay is right behind with a 7–6 
overall record, although only 2–4 in                conference play.  
“We had a terrible start to the 
match, but it showed we are capable 
of coming back even when things 
aren’t going our way, ” Luyties said. 
“This kind of match is good for us 
moving forward. ”
Three Tritons finished with 
double figures in kills: Wright 
(game-high 13), outside hitter 
Morgan Kissick (11) and Beksa 
(10). In addition to her 13 kills, 
Wright displayed her defensive 
prowess, finishing with 15 digs. She was outdone by freshman 
libero Lindsey Chun who led the 
way with 20 digs. Evans and junior 
setter Rachel Linden continually 
set the ball up beautifully for their 
teammates throughout the course 
of the match, ending with 23 and 20 
assists respectively.  
It was a bit of an up-and-down 
night for the Tritons as they only hit 
.241 (52–19–137), but their defense 
smothered the Otters, holding 
them to a sub .200 night of .164             
(41–19–134).A successful road trip will now 
bring UCSD back to RIMAC Arena, 
where the team will host a couple 
of conference matches. The Tritons 
will look to keep their five-game 
winning streak alive beginning with 
a match against San Francisco State 
on Oct. 7, followed by Sonoma State 
on Oct. 8.  Both are set to start at 
7 p.m.Triton Volleyball Easily Dominates Competition Over the Weekend
UCSD handily defeats Cal State East Bay and Cal State Monterey Bay; the Tritons remain undefeated at 5-0 in conference play while 
losing only one set in two games. The team will head back home to La Jolla to face San Francisco State and Sonoma State next week. WOMEN'S  VOLLEYBALL
BY  d a n i e l  h e r n a n d e z
Senior staff writer
Danniel Hernandez     daho43@ucsd,eduPHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICSSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
DEV JAIN
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 3, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG * ALL DAY EVENT  
Tritons Draw Even On Friday
The offense is unable to get anything going as UCSD ties 0–0 
with Sonoma State. The Tritons are still undefeated at home with a 
6–0–1 record.  UCSD men’s soccer battled the Sonoma 
State Seawolves at a home game last 
Friday afternoon. The Tritons’ solid 
defense was able to prevent the opposing team 
from scoring for the fifth time this season. 
Despite defensive superiority, UCSD was unable 
to ferment any offensive power and ended the 
game in a 0–0 tie. The Tritons moved to 6–1–2 for 
the season and 1–1–1 in the California Collegiate 
Athletic Association, remaining undefeated at 
home with a 6–0–1 record. The Seawolves now 
have a 3–2–4 record for the regular season and 
3–1–1 in CCAA. 
UCSD was closest to breaking the stalemate 
during the second half of the match when senior 
midfielder Nick Palano got a cross into the back 
post. Junior forward Malek Bashti was able to 
make a connection but missed wide right. 
Sonoma State had a chance of its own late 
in the game on a blast from SSU freshman 
midfielder Evan Roehrig. Senior goalkeeper 
Cameron McElfresh made the stop, recording his 
fourth save of the game and pushing for overtime. Though the result may 
not show it, the Tritons 
dominated most of the 
game. They managed to 
outshoot Sonoma State 16–8 
and controlled the ball for a 
majority of the match. UCSD’s 
four defenders, senior Kuba 
Waligorski, junior Nolan Mac, 
sophomore Jeff Powers and 
freshman Kelvin Uribe, stayed 
in the entire 110 minutes and 
held the opposing team scoreless 
for the second game in a row.
The Tritons went on to play 
another league match, this 
time against Humboldt 
State. They defeated 
the Lumberjacks 
1–0 in overtime 
and moved to 
2-1-1 in the 
CCAA.by Anthony Tzeng // Senior Staff Writer
by Alex Wu // Sports Editorial Assistant
MEN’S SOCCER
PHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE/UCSD GUARDIAN
PHOTO BY GEOFF PALOMINO/UCSD GUARDIANUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM. Tennis
W.Volleyball
Cross Country
M.Water Polo
M. Soccer 10/7
10/7
10/8
10/12
10/14 AD*
7 PM
8 AM
6 PM
7 PMAT Aztec Fall Invitational
VS SF State
VS Triton Classic 
VS Long Beach State
VS Cal State Los Angeles
UCSD ends Sonoma State’s six-game winning streak with an impressive 
defensive performance at home and will now get ready for Humboldt State. WOMEN'S  SOCCER 
Tritons 
Get The 
2-0 Shutout 
At Home
The No. 8 UCSD women’s soccer 
team had quite the task on Friday 
night. Despite starting the season 
0–2–1, Sonoma State came charging into La 
Jolla with a six-game win streak with hopes 
of tightening its grip on the conference. The 
Tritons would have none of this, however, as 
they notched their fifth shutout of the season 
against the California Collegiate Athletic 
Association  rival Seawolves.
It would not take long for the Tritons to 
take the lead; even though the team’s first 
two shot attempts resulted in failure, redshirt 
senior midfielder Kiera Bocchino struck 
gold just 11 minutes into the first period 
thanks to a lucky bounce off of a Sonoma 
State defender. But the Tritons would not 
let off the gas, as they continued to outshoot 
the Seawolves for the rest of the period, 
culminating in a 7–1 shot advantage heading 
into halftime. 
In the second period, the Tritons found 
their magic early once again. At the 50:56 
mark, junior midfielder Jordyn McNutt 
hammered a penalty kick past Seawolves 
freshman goalkeeper Allison Hadidian to give UCSD the winning 2–0 score. From 
that point on, UCSD locked in on defense. 
In spite of Sonoma State’s five shots, the 
Tritons refused to budge, partly thanks to 
redshirt senior goalkeeper Itzel Gonzalez’s 
two late saves to hold on to the shutout. 
“It was great, ” UCSD head coach Brian 
McManus told the Athletics Department. 
“That’ s what you want: night games under 
the lights, atmosphere, playing against a top 
team. It doesn’t come any better. ”
McNutt and Bocchino were the 
highlights of the night thanks to their 
scores, with McNutt also earning an assist, 
while Bocchino helped to keep the defense 
honest with her three shots. On the other 
side, Hadidian kept the game close with four 
saves on the night but ultimately faltered 
just enough to give the Tritons the win.
With the victory, UCSD improved to 
7–2 overall and 3–0 in conference play, 
while Sonoma State fell to 6–2–1 overall 
and 4–1 in conference play. The Tritons 
overwhelmed Humboldt State in Sunday’s 
game, obliterating the Lumberjacks with a 
4–0 victory.