VOLUME 49, ISSUE 26   THURSDA Y , JANUAR Y 21, 2016  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
WONDER ABOUT 
OH WONDER?
The UCSD Guardian sits 
down with the London based 
songwriting pair backstage 
before their show at The 
Casbah in San Diego to discuss 
touring and online success.
SOARING  APPLICA TIONS
SPIRIT  NIGHT  PREVIEWACCEPT ANCES LACK DIVERSITY
BASKETBALLOPINION,  P age   4
SPORTS,  P age  12
THURSDAY
H 69 L 49FRIDAY
H 66 L 51
SATURDAY
H 62 L 49SUNDAY
H 62 L 47
FORECAST
VERBATIM
WHILE DRIVERLESS CARS 
ARE NOT PRONE TO THE 
SAME HUMAN WEAKNESSES 
WHEN DRIVING, SUCH AS 
INTOXICATION OR FATIGUE, 
THESE AUTOMATED CARS 
AREN’T EQUIPPED TO 
HANDLE ETHICAL AND MORAL 
DILEMMAS THAT EVEN WE, AS 
HUMANS, FIND CHALLENGING.”
- Alexander Chen
TECH IT OUT
OPINION , PAGE 4
INSIDE
IN BRIEF  ......................... 2
SEA LION POOP  .............. 4
CHRISTIAN LIFESTYLE  .....8
CLASSIFIEDS  ................ 10
FENCING  ....................... 11“WEEKEND,  P AGE  6
PHOTO BY ANDREW GEO RGE
The San Diego City Council 
voted unanimously to appeal the 
Public Employment Relations Board’s 
ruling that orders the city to rescind 
Proposition B on Jan. 12. After the 
city files its appeal, the Fourth District 
Court of Appeals will review the case 
and make a verdict on whether to 
uphold or reject PERB’s decision. 
According to PERB’s Dec. 29 
ruling, the City of San Diego violated 
state law in 2012 by placing Prop B 
— an initiative that replaced pensions 
for San Diego city employees with 
401(k)-style retirement plans — on the 
ballot without meeting or conferring 
with labor groups. 
San Diego’s City Attorney Jan Goldsmith deemed PERB’s ruling 
unconstitutional and outside of its 
jurisdiction. He argued that Prop B 
was in fact an initiative organized by 
private citizens, and therefore, the city 
was not obligated to meet with unions.
“PERB is trying to create new a law 
by declaring that a citizen initiative 
– one that was placed on the ballot 
by 116,000 citizen signatures and 
approved by 66 percent of citizen 
voters – should be unwound because 
its terms were not separately negotiated 
with union leaders, ” Goldsmith stated 
in a Jan. 12 press release. “The people’s 
right to initiative is guaranteed by the 
California Constitution. This right 
cannot be bargained away in a back 
room, or stolen from the people by a 
government agency. ”
However, General Manager of 
the San Diego Municipal Employees Association Mike Zucchet, whose 
labor union was the lead plaintiff in 
the PERB action, defended the ruling. 
He told the UCSD Guardian that Jerry 
Sanders, San Diego’s mayor at the time, 
utilized the power and resources of his 
office to get Prop B onto the ballot, 
negating the possibility of it being a 
citizen initiative.
“We demonstrated that Mayor 
Sanders and his office conceived of 
and drafted Prop B with the use of city 
resources, city staff and under the color 
of authority of his office, effectively 
making Prop B a city initiative, ” 
Zucchet said. “ After a week-long 
hearing that included Mayor Sanders 
and members of his staff testifying 
under oath, the PERB Administrative 
Law Judge upheld our complaint. And UCSD Students Protest 
Anti-Abortion Advocates        
UCSD students protested the Center for Bio-Ethical 
Reform’s anti-abortion display at Library Walk on 
Tuesday and Wednesday this week. The exhibit 
juxtaposed images of genocide victims with those of 
dismembered fetuses.
Eleanor Roosevelt College junior and A.S. campuswide 
senator Lauren Roberts told the UCSD Guardian that the 
display incited a response from students not because of its 
message, but its crude and disruptive tactics. 
“When you start marginalizing, racializing and fear-
mongering — when you start marginalizing the black 
community, sexual assault, rape victims and LGBT 
community with your message — that’s when I started 
taking offense, ” Roberts said. “If it was just a pro-life 
demonstration going on, I probably wouldn’t care. 
Everyone has the freedom to their opinion, but when you 
start marginalizing communities inside the greater UCSD 
community, that’s why I stood up to it. ”
Members of the panhellenic sorority Kappa Kappa 
Gamma collaborated with the Associated Students 
Women’s Commission and the UCSD Women’s Center to 
organize the protest on Tuesday. Roberts later created a 
Facebook event for Wednesday’s demonstration. CBR Director of Operations Kevin Olivier told 
the Guardian that the Genocide Awareness Project’s 
uncensored images aim to educate people about the 
unknown consequences of aborting a fetus.
“Our message is that abortion is an act of violence 
that decapitates, dismembers and disembowels pre-born 
human beings, ” Olivier said. “This is a human rights 
issue. We’re here to make people aware of what abortion 
is … Given the facts, we believe the right position is that 
abortion is immoral and ought to be illegal. Anyone who 
doesn’t believe that, we want them to believe that. We don’t 
want them to be wrong. ”
Thurgood Marshall College junior and KKG member 
Manoli Dawson argued that terminating a pregnancy is a 
woman’s personal choice, noting that abortion rates could 
decrease with increased access to contraception. 
“What we really want to push is that it’s the woman’s 
right to choose what she does with her body — whether 
you decide to have an abortion or not, that’s up to 
you, ” Dawson told the  Guardian. “We’re [also] trying 
to make abortions safe and legal, so that we can provide 
more education on being healthy and having access to 
contraceptives when needed and overall reducing the rate   B Y  Kriti  Sarin    News EditorScientists Aim 
to Harness 
Nuclear 
EnergySCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY AROUND CAMPUS
The team used a method of 
thermonuclear ignition called 
fast ignition to observe  the 
first step of nuclear fusion.
BY  M i n g - R a y  L i a o
See ENERGY , page 3 See PENSIONS , page 3An international team of 
scientists and engineers led by 
UCSD and General Atomics 
developed a technique to observe 
the flow of energy during the first 
phase of nuclear fusion reactions. 
The team, whose findings were 
published in Nature Physics on 
Jan. 11, approached thermonuclear 
ignition through a process called 
fast ignition. Unlike traditional 
thermonuclear techniques that 
simultaneously use compression 
and ignition phases of fuel capsules, 
fast ignition separates the two 
different phases and implements a 
high-intensity ultrashort-pulse laser 
to provide the spark for ignition. 
Mingsheng Wei, a researcher at 
General Atomics, told the UCSD 
Guardian that the team was not 
expecting to see a horseshoe pattern 
emission — which revealed that the 
energy did not flow directly — as 
the goal was to concentrate emission 
on the tip of the cone.
“Though we could clearly see 
the fluorescent emissions lighting 
up, we were surprised to see that 
it wasn’t lighting up in a forward 
direction, ” Wei said. “When we sent 
in the short-pulse laser, we were 
hoping to see just the tip of the cone 
lighting up — but we didn’t see that. 
Instead, we saw a kind of hollow, 
horseshoe feature because energy 
was actually flowing out sideways. ”
Farhat Beg, director of UCSD’s 
Center for Energy Research, said that 
the implications of the study include 
more efficient energy coupling.
“Before, people were working in 
the dark in regards to the flow of 
energy but here we’ve visualized and 
shown where the energy is going — 
it’s not where it’s supposed to go, ” 
Beg told the Guardian. “With this 
understanding we can target the 
parameters and improve them to 
get more energy coupled to the fuel 
where fusion is going to happen. ”
Wei said that after the first round 
of improvements the team was able 
to achieve the highest recorded 
energy deposition in the National 
Ignition Facility.
“It’s a lot of development 
and iterations, but after further 
improvements to the target and 
design by minimizing pre-plasma 
within the cone, we were able to get 
energy deposition closer to the cone 
tip, ” Wei said. “From the calculations 
we inferred that up to 7 percent of 
the short-pulse laser energy were 
deposited into the fusion target — the City Votes to Appeal Ruling on Pension Reform
San Diego’s City Attorney argued that reversing Proposition B would be unconstitutional.See PROTEST , page 2
SAN DIEGO
BY  J a c ky  T o
Associate news editorPhoto by Geoff Palomino /UCSD Guardian2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 21, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
AVERAGE CAT By Christina Carlson
CalCopyUCSD@gmai l.comLowest
Prices POSTER PRINTINGPRINT/ COPY FILES
'' FedExFastest
ServiceReaders printed in 1 day.Cal Copy UCSD Course Readers
SAME DAY COLOR POSTER PRINTING!
REGISTER ONLINE AT AS.UCSD.EDU/SAFERIDESREGISTRATION
FOR this quarter
IS NOW OPEN!
A.S. Safe Rides allows 
registered undergraduate 
students to get 3 FREE rides 
per quarter. 
Students must register at 
least 24 hours prior to their 
first ride. 
Contact A.s. safe rides: (619) 564 - 7998
MORE INFO AT SOVAC.UCSD.EDU/REGISTERThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. “She has no one to come alongside her.” Who 
let the fetuses out?
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Marketing Co-Directors
Peter McInnis, Haley Asturias
Training and Development Manager
Cedric Hyon
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Vincent Pham
Tina Butoiu
Kriti Sarin
Jacky To
Cassia Pollock 
Marcus Thuillier
Allison Kubo
Karly Nisson
Brittney Lu
Olga Golubkova
Jonathan Gao
Megan Lee
Joselynn Ordaz
Sherman Aline
Christina Carlson
Sophia Huang
Jennifer Grundman
Sage Schubert ChristianEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
News Editor
 
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editors
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Sherman Aline, Allison Kubo
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim, Alicia Ho, Lisa Chik
Editorial Assistants
Christian Duarte, Dev Jain, Julie Yip,  
Naftali Burakovsky, Sam Velazquezof abortion over time. ”
According to a report published by 
the National Right to Life Committee 
on Jan. 14, abortion rates in the United 
States decreased by 4.2 percent from 
2011 to 2012 and continue to decline. 
Abortion rates for teenage females 
dropped 12.3 percent in the same year 
and 40.4 percent from 2003 to 2012.
Some protesters deemed the 
comparisons of abortion to genocide 
inappropriate and hyperbolic. 
However, Olivier justified the analogy, 
stating that abortion is another form of killing innocent human beings.
“I think the Holocaust was an 
extreme injustice, I think the 
lynching of black people in this 
country was an extreme injustice 
and I think abortion is an extreme 
injustice, ” Olivier said. “I don’t think 
the comparisons are extreme at all. I 
think they’re quite compelling. ”
Marty Young, who serves as 
assistant to CBR Executive Director 
Gregg Cunningham, told the 
Guardian that the exhibit’s size and 
graphic content are meant to elicit a 
reaction from the public.
“People don’t listen if you do it another way, ” Y oung said. “Y ou throw 
a stone into a pack of dogs, and the 
dog that gets hit barks the loudest. 
That’s what’s happened over here. All 
these people have gotten hit. ”
Sixth College sophomore Mary 
Latibashvili commented that she 
stood for female choice and hoped 
the content presented by GAP would 
not provoke those who previously 
had abortions. 
“We’re just making sure that the 
people that are passing by know that 
this is not real, and that we stand 
for women’s rights and that it’s their 
choice to do what they want to do with their bodies, ” Latibashvili told 
the Guardian at Tuesday’s protest. 
“We also want the people who are 
walking by who might have had 
an abortion in the past to not be 
triggered by this. ”
Roberts added that she was 
planning to organize a campaign in 
solidarity with survivors of rape and 
sexual assault in February, which is 
Sexual Assault Awareness month.
Additional reporting by Quinn 
Pieper, Jacky To and Julie Yip.
Founder of the global microfinance movement and Nobel Prize laureate 
Muhammad Y unus will be the keynote speaker at UCSD’s All-Campus 
Commencement Ceremony, according to a Jan. 19 campus notice from 
university administration. 
In addition to receiving the Nobel Peace Prize in 2006, Y unus was awarded 
the U.S. Presidential Medal of Freedom in 2009 and the Congressional Gold 
Medal in 2010. According to the notice, Y unus was chosen as keynote speaker 
because of his dedication to social service.
“Y unus is known worldwide for pioneering the concept of microcredit and 
establishing the Grameen Bank to help impoverished people start their own 
businesses, ” the statement said. “His commitment to social mobility and human 
rights aligns with UCSD’s tradition of service, making him the ideal speaker for 
UCSD’s first All-Campus Commencement in 16 years. ” 
UCSD Chancellor Pradeep Khosla expressed enthusiasm for the 
new ceremony and commented that it would unite students from all six 
undergraduate colleges.
“We are very excited to begin a new commencement tradition at UCSD, ” 
Khosla said in a university press release last year. “We are one university, 
one UCSD community. Creating a tradition that recognizes all of our 
graduates and their achievements, together, is the most fitting way to honor 
our newest alumni. ”
The commencement ceremony will take place on June 11, 2016 and will 
include approximately 8,000 undergraduate students, as well as graduate 
students from various disciplines.A.S. Concerts and Events confirmed that UCSD’s annual Sun God 
Festival will not be canceled this year and will be held on Saturday, April 
30, 2016 from 12 p.m. to 6 p.m. in a Facebook post dated Jan. 19. 
The team is optimistic about this year’s Sun God Festival, despite 
having a decreased amount of funding for the event.
“We have been hard at work to ensure that this year’s festival is an 
experience you’ll never forget,” ASCE representatives wrote. “While we 
face some new budget constraints this year, we are up for the challenge 
and can’t wait to see all of you...on the field.”
According to the Facebook post, there were significantly fewer 
substance-related incidences at Hullabaloo last quarter, which can be 
considered a sign that students are consciously trying to make campus 
events safer.
“We still have much to do in the way of educating all of our student 
body and working toward safer participation in campus events, and we 
are incredibly thankful to see that the rest of the student body supports 
movement in this direction,” ASCE said. “Knowing that the students on 
our campus are willing to engage with us and make the effort to party 
responsibly is a step toward changing the culture associated with campus 
music festivals into something more positive.” 
Students can become members of the festivals planning team by 
attending weekly meetings on Mondays in Price Center East.Nobel Prize Recipient to Speak at 2016 Commencement Sun God Festival Scheduled for Saturday, April 30IN BRIEF    WRITTEN BY
KRITI SARIN //  NEWS EDITORTeena ge Abortion Rates in United States Dropped 40 Percent Between 2003 and 2012
▶ PROTEST,  from page 1
Kriti  Sarin   ksarin@ucsd.eduhighest kind of record for that facility. ”
Christopher McGuffey, an 
assistant research scientist at the 
Center for Energy Research said that 
even though the goal is to eventually 
develop a sustainable energy source, 
they have yet to show that they can control nuclear fusion.
“Long term, the goal [for] many 
of us is to make a sustainable energy 
or power source, but many steps still 
remain, ” McGuffey told the Guardian. 
“What we’ve done is see if we can 
make improvements and haven’t 
yet demonstrated that [controlled 
nuclear fusion is] feasible. There are still quite a few … challenges, like 
collecting all the energy that comes 
out in fusion reactions. I’ d say there 
are still many decades before it will 
be used in a power plant that puts 
energy on the grid. ”NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 21, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
Deadline to apply: Feb 28
TO LEARN MORE ATTEND THE OPEN forum:
Jan 28 • 12pm-1pm • Forum, PC EAST, 4th Floor 
Contact s6mathew@ucsd.edu for additional inquiriesBecome the next
UC STUDENT
REGENTMcGuffey: Nuclear Energy Will Not Be Useable for Many Decades
▶ ENERGY ,  from page 1
Ming-Ra y Liao   m4liao@ucsd.edu
now the full PERB Board has 
also upheld our complaint. ”
The ruling also orders the 
city of San Diego to reimburse its 
employees for any losses incurred 
due to the implementation of Prop B 
as well as a 7 percent interest penalty. 
According to Zucchet, the city has 
hired approximately 2,000 employees 
since the initiative took effect in July 
2012, all without pensions. 
Furthermore, he stated that 
while it has been active, Prop B has 
made it more difficult for the city 
to attract talented workers, causing 
the city’s quality of services to suffer.
“ Although supporters of Prop 
B promised voters that San Diego 
would be the ‘leader’ in pension 
reform and that other jurisdictions 
would follow, we remain the only 
city in California that does not 
offer defined benefit pensions to 
new hires,” Zucchet said. “In a 
competitive job market, San Diego is now having a lot of trouble hiring 
new employees, and then retaining 
those that we do hire. Public safety, 
infrastructure, neighborhood 
services and everything else the 
city is doing or trying to enhance 
is suffering because the city can’t 
effectively hire qualified employees. ”
President of the Police Officers 
Association Brian Marvel, whose 
labor union does not fall under 
the purview of PERB, not only 
agreed that San Diego is no longer 
as competitive of an employer as 
other cities but also argued that the 
initiative has ahad a negative impact 
on retirement security.
“Retirement security is going to 
be a national issue rising to the level 
of a crisis in a few short years, ” 
Marvel told the Guardian. “We 
should be looking at ways to increase 
opportunities for all folks to invest in 
defined benefit plans … Hopefully 
people will recognize the broader 
issues and rebuke the folks trying to 
destroy retirement security. ”Goldsmith, however, rebutted 
that whether or not one agrees with 
the content and effects of Prop B, 
PERB’s ruling grants more power to 
union leaders than to citizens.
“Even people who opposed 
Proposition B understand that the 
PERB decision is an unconscionable 
overreach that gives union leaders 
the power to thwart the public’s 
will, ” Goldsmith said.
Nevertheless, Zucchet expressed 
that he and his organization are 
determined to get Prop B rescinded 
so that they can make the city a 
better place for its residents to live 
and work.
“Prop B is literally costing San 
Diego and its citizens money, and it 
is only going to get worse, ” Zucchet 
said. “We will continue to litigate Prop 
B because it is bad for our city, and 
when the day comes that a final ruling 
is in on the legality of Prop B, we will 
work with the city to move forward. ”City Has Hired 2,000 Employees Without Giving Them Pensions
▶ PENSIONS,  from page 1
Jacky To   j6to@ucsd.eduLooking for the 
New Business 
Column?
Now posted every Wednesday 
night, after the A.S. Council 
meeting, online.
ucsdguardian.org UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGsee more at4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 21, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CASSIA POLLOCK
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
ALEXANDER CHEN
ALC129@ucsd.eduTECH   IT  OUT
Selecting Diversity
With all the hype of self-driving 
cars, from Google’s cars to Tesla’s 
new autopilot feature, the journey 
of self-driving cars becoming 
accessible to the public is going to be 
a bumpy ride. Elon Musk, CEO of 
Tesla, claims that fully autonomous 
cars could become a reality within 
two years, as reported by Fortune. 
Undoubtedly an admirable claim. 
However, the nuanced decisions 
made by drivers on a daily basis are 
easily overlooked. While driverless 
cars are not prone to the same 
human weaknesses when driving, 
such as intoxication or fatigue, these 
automated cars aren’t equipped to 
handle ethical and moral dilemmas 
that even we, as humans, find 
challenging. 
The decisions made in the 
process of self-driving differ from 
instinctive split-second human 
reactions to coded decisions 
generated by the vehicle’s autopilot 
software. For example, if a deer 
jumped into the path of a car, a 
driver may instinctively swerve 
to avoid the deer. In the process, 
they could crash into another car 
or kill a pedestrian. This may be 
an unfortunate scenario in which 
the driver is not at fault as they 
were startled by the deer. Now 
pretend that the car is self-driving, 
and instead of a deer, there is a 
pedestrian rushing across the 
street. The decision is to either hit 
the pedestrian or swerve to avoid 
them and risk hitting oncoming 
traffic. This involves a premeditated 
decision made by the programmers 
of the autopilot software. Not 
only does this raise the issue of 
accountability and responsibility, but 
it also raises the issue of ethics and 
which option to choose when faced 
with two negative options. 
Most drivers are selfish. Their 
objective is to get from point A to 
point B in the least amount of time 
possible. When conflicts arise, a 
driver is more likely to prioritize 
their interests over those of others. 
For example, when waiting for 
passerbys at the crosswalk, a human 
driver might get impatient after 
waiting a few minutes and slowly 
inch forward, forcing pedestrians to 
let the car through. A self-driving car 
programmed would wait as long as it 
detected a human presence moving 
in front of the car and challenge the 
passenger’s patience.
This issue of self-preservation is 
prominent in scenarios where drivers 
are faced with a dilemma of causing 
self-harm versus saving a crowd of 
people. A human driver would likely 
swerve to prevent risk of personal 
harm. However, a self-driving car 
must be pre-programmed to select 
certain options. It might subscribe to 
a utilitarian model of thinking, the 
greatest good for the greatest number 
of people. But human passengers 
would not support sacrificing their 
own lives to save others.
The issue of self-driving cars is 
that ethical dilemmas are pushed 
onto the car manufacturers. With 
no standard code of ethics dictating 
which choice a self-driving car 
should prefer when faced with two 
negative options, the moral terrain of 
self-driving cars becomes a slippery 
slope. The issues of accountability 
and responsibility for tragedies or 
accidents that may occur while 
driving also raises a red light to 
speeding forward through these 
issues. Perhaps one day we’ll be able 
to call a self-driving Uber car, but in 
the meantime, we should shouldn’t 
toss out our driver licenses just yet. Gigantic urban agglomerations 
and barely populated villages alike 
have their own local problems. 
Even in a paradise free of major 
socioeconomic issues, such as La Jolla, 
we can still smell trouble like sea lion 
and bird poop. For the past few years, 
the area has been suffering from a 
natural yet nauseous smell — feces 
from the animals of La Jolla Cove. 
A seemingly minor inconvenience 
causes strong feelings in the hearts 
and noses of La Jollans. But with 
rotating plastic cylinders to humanely 
displace the sea lions, it is time to end 
the stink once and for all.
The problem with the foul scent 
of animal and bird excrements began 
in La Jolla Cove when city authorities 
decided to put up a fence along 
the cliffs to prevent people from 
entering an unsafe sheer area. While 
making the cliffs safer for tourists and 
residents, the fence created a people-
free zone that sea lions and birds 
gladly occupied. The unusually large 
concourse of animals soon befouled 
their new habitat, producing an 
unbearable smell that quickly spread 
due to prevailing ocean winds.
Local businesses were the first to 
complain about the odor, as it came 
with negative reviews from customers 
disturbed by the stench. To fight 
for fresh air in their establishments, 
owners of George’s at the Cove and the La V alencia Hotel filed a lawsuit 
ordering the city of San Diego and the 
state of California to solve the issue of 
the stench of animal droppings, but 
the initiative was eventually rejected.
Despite the city’s refusal to address 
the problem, the locals, for whom 
having a Saturday brunch while 
overlooking the ocean is comparable 
to a weekly religious ritual, did not 
give up on the stink. First, a gate was 
placed in the fence to allow people to 
access La Jolla Cove. This measure 
was supposed to deter birds and 
sea lions from coming to the bluffs 
by bringing back human presence, 
but the animals quickly became 
accustomed to humans constantly 
taking selfies. The city also invested 
in a natural bioactive product that 
was sprayed around the cliffs three 
times a month to neutralize the odor. 
Unfortunately, this procedure also 
turned out to be effective exclusively 
against the smell of bird droppings, 
leaving the smell of sea lion’s 
excrement unresolved.
After suggesting numerous 
creative yet problematic solutions, this 
year, La Jolla’s residents put forward 
another anti-sea lion know-how. 
They proposed introducing rotating 
plastic cylinders along the cliff area 
to prevent the animals from climbing 
up the rocks. This simple device 
matches the standards of safety and is harmless for sea lions. However, 
we have already intervened in nature 
by building up a fence, causing 
just as much harm as good, so it is 
undetermined how the inflatable 
cylinders will affect local wildlife. 
Sneaky sea lions might learn how to 
circumvent the newly built obstacles 
just as they got used to people. It is 
also possible that they move out to an 
area further away from Downtown La 
Jolla. But even if they wave goodbye 
for good, it is not the best-case 
scenario, as La Jolla will lose one of its 
main tourist attractions. We have to 
consider all these possibilities, but also 
should ask ourselves: Is the problem 
worthy of three years of continuous 
debate, or is it a classic example of 
using privilege to get one’s way?
One might say that we need 
to leave sea lions and birds alone. 
However, if the cylinder solution is 
humane and sea lions have a place to 
relocate, maybe we should give this 
invention a try. A simple solution 
could effectively help sea lions, 
business owners and residents part 
as friends. Sea lions will go back to 
living in a less-inhabited portion of 
the wild, people will enjoy fresh air 
and the blessings of civilization and 
local publications will stop the never-
ending flow of articles dedicated to 
the “poop problem. ” They will all live, 
for the time being, happily ever after. Proposed Solution to Odor of  Feces at La Jolla Beaches: Anti-Sea Lion Wall
Vincent Pham
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Tina Butoiu
MANAGING EDITOR  
Cassia Pollock
OPINION EDITOR
Quinn Pieper
ASSISTANT OPINION EDITOR
Kriti Sarin
NEWS EDITOR
Jacky To
ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITOR
Allison Kubo
FEATURES EDITOR
Olga Golubkova
CO-LIFESTYLE EDITOREDITORIAL  BOARD
The UCSD Guardian is published twice a week at the 
University of California at San Diego. Contents © 
2015. Views expressed herein represent the majority 
vote of the editorial board and are not necessarily those 
of the UC Board of Regents, the ASUCSD or the 
members of the Guardian staff. Once again, UCSD has received a record-breaking number of 
freshman and transfer applications. This hardly comes as a surprise. 
An increase in applications is always anticipated. According to 
KPBS, we received one of the highest number of applications in the 
entire UC system, second only to UCLA. There was also an increase 
in the racial diversity of applicants; unfortunately, this increase does 
not necessarily forecast a more diverse student population at UCSD.
Of course, the university deserves accolades for steadily 
attracting students from a more diverse set of backgrounds. From 
last year, the number of black freshman applicants jumped 9.2 
percent; transfers, 33.1 percent. Moreover, Latino and Mexican-
American application numbers rose the most, with a 10.1 percent 
increase. 
Although this is worth recognition, it raises important questions 
about where these applicants are going. If there are 9.2 percent 
more black applicants, will the amount of black students will rise 
correspondingly next year? For the past 10 years, they have never 
accounted for more than 2 percent of the student population in the 
entire university. This is simply unacceptable. 
On the flipside, it is intriguing that Asian-Americans have made 
up between 45 to 49 percent of the student population for the 
past seven years, despite making up only 14.9 percent of the state’s 
population. According to The Economist, Asian-Americans are 
11% more likely than the general public to believe in the American 
dream, and the idea that “people who want to get ahead can make 
it if they are willing to work hard. ” This supports the idea that 
Asian-Americans are culturally driven to meet academic standards of success, and that their more substantial representation may 
therefore result from the university issuing acceptances purely on 
the basis of academic merit. 
The McNair Scholars Research Journal argues that black 
students are overrepresented in special education programs because 
educators have implicit racial biases that cause them to over-refer 
black children into these programs. The dominant grading system 
may also penalize students for exhibiting intelligence in ways that 
stray from conventional educational values. Although the quality 
of applicants is important, it seems difficult to believe that such 
qualitative assessment enables proper judgements. Instead, it 
seems more likely that there is a bias in the scales we, as a society, 
use to evaluate intelligence and success. More of an effort must 
be made to recognize the diverse merits of underrepresented and 
underprivileged groups, rather than relying solely on academic 
achievement as a metric.
Traditional academics are not the only barrier to attendance. 
Individuals from underprivileged backgrounds may be 
academically qualified to attend UCSD without being able to afford 
it. While approximately 55 percent of University of California 
students do not pay tuition, there are other direct and indirect 
costs associated with attendance. Aside from living costs, which in 
San Diego are not particularly cheap, families who depend on the 
earnings of their children may lose a critical source of income when 
a student goes to college. It is necessary to have more scholarships 
and programs that focus on bridging this gap. However, in 
order for these financial opportunities to even be considered, 
See APPLICATIONS, page 5The applications keep rolling in with a measurable increase in minority groups. Unfortunately , there is no 
indication that the diversity of  enrolled students at UCSD is consistently improving.
ILLUSTRA TION   B Y  ALEX  LIANGWho Drives
Your Car?OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 21, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
Karmonize.org  is a student organization
where we can support good causes,
cooperate, and volunteer to
improve the UCSD community.HELP OTHERS, FIND HELP
WHEN YOU NEED IT, AND
MAKE KARMA REAL!
Social
Power
HourSocial
Power
Hour
FREE GAMES, MUSIC, AND FOOD!FREE GAMES, MUSIC, AND FOOD!
FIRST COME, FIRST SERVEd
FIRST COME, FIRST SERVEdOTHER DATES
WHEN AND WH EREWHEN AND WHERE
PC COMMUTER
LOUNGE2PMJAN. 21  
FEB. 4 & 18
MAR. 3DATEDATEcommunities need to be aware of 
these scholarships’ existence. 
If the university truly intends 
to create a more inclusive campus 
culture with a student body reflecting 
California’s demographics, it should 
focus on informing applicants 
and their families of potential 
financial opportunities. If there 
is any hope of living up to the 
ideals of the American Dream, 
this is an important step that the 
administration needs to take sooner 
than later. 
Aspirational goals and statements 
from the university professing its 
dedication to principles of tolerance 
and inclusivity undoubtedly contribute to conversations 
surrounding these issues. However, 
once examined, they are only a 
means to improve the university’s 
image. According to one of the latest 
statements issued by the university, 
the Statement of Principles Against 
Intolerance, the document is 
intended to “reflect the principles 
of the Regents” and contains a list 
with examples that “do not reflect the 
University’s values of inclusion and 
tolerance. ”   Although the statement 
may be intended to foster a better 
academic environment for students, 
the language itself reflects a need 
to appear virtuous and to be on the 
correct side of the political climate. 
Just as the number of applicants 
does not signify a shift in the UC’s demographics, public statements 
do not illustrate a shift in university 
policy. Thus, direct, concrete action 
in the form of new high school 
programs or change in curriculum 
to increase awareness is in order to 
ensure these numbers and words to 
reflect our values.
The fact that the university can 
pat itself on the back for increased 
minority group application rates 
while simultaneously ignoring 
their needs and reinforcing 
institutionalized racism is revolting. 
So, although we grant the university 
a sincere “congratulations” for its 
triumphant increase in diverse 
applicants, we’ll have to save the 
final word for when the admissions 
committee makes its selections.UC Regents Statements on Intolerance Fail to Support Diversity at UCSDLETTER  TO  THE  EDITOR
As a San Diegan who has cared 
for individual marine mammals in a 
zoological setting for more than 25 
years, I wanted to comment on the 
article “SeaWorld Sues State for Whale 
Breeding Ban” by Lisa Chik published 
in the Guardian on Jan. 6, 2016. Ms. 
Chik interviewed Ally Rice from the 
Scripps’ Marine Bioacoustics Lab. Ms. 
Rice’s suggestion that there is disparity 
between the longevities of wild and 
captive killer whales reflects a lack of 
awareness of the most recent scientific 
literature. In our recent publication 
in the Journal of Mammalogy 
(96(5):1055-1070, 2015), we compared 
life history data of SeaWorld’s killer 
whales with that of wild populations. 
The data showed not only that our 
whales have similar life spans as well-
studied wild populations, but also that 
they reproduce at a similar age as their 
wild counterparts, not “early” as her 
quote in the article implies. 
Eighty percent of our killer whales 
were born at SeaWorld and while their 
lives in our care may be different from 
wild counterparts in many aspects, 
it’s also true the lives of wild killer 
whales differ significantly between 
different populations in both physical 
traits and social organizations. These 
differences are so great that, it is clear, 
as a species, killer whales have the 
genetic tools necessary to adapt to 
different habitats and social situations 
— including those which are found 
for our whales at SeaWorld.   
Ms. Rice further points to the 
fact that wild whales have access to 
larger home ranges. This fact isn’t 
in dispute; however, what evidence 
is there that this causes them undue 
harm? Our whales are able to swim 
in their enclosures for as long and as often as they desire. The fundamental 
difference is that wild killer whales 
are forced to follow available food 
supplies; this isn’t a choice, it’s 
necessary for their survival. Since 
her statement about available space 
differences could be applied to MOST 
animals of any species (including 
humans) living in any zoo, aquarium, 
home, farm, ranch, “sanctuary, ” 
wildlife reserve or other man-made 
location, the important question to 
ask is, can the animals (in this case 
our killer whales) adapt to these 
artificial environments? Our whales 
exhibit robust reproduction, normal 
life spans, and overwhelmingly 
healthy interactions with each other 
and their trainers.  All of these traits 
provide evidence to help answer the 
question of whether or not they are 
adapted to SeaWorld and the answer 
is unequivocally yes.
If you’ d like to know more about 
the whales at SeaWorld, come and 
see them at the park. Read the 
killer whale literature. Think about 
the value the whales at SeaWorld 
bring to society and the value they 
bring by inspiring the development 
of committed biologists and 
environmental advocates through 
the bonds they engender. A visit to 
SeaWorld when I was young inspired 
me to become a veterinarian, and 
today I’m proud to not only to care 
for killer whales, but to further 
research that will help protect these 
magnificent animals in the wild.
 
Dr. Todd Robeck
Vice President of Theriogenology
SeaWorld & Busch Gardens 
Reproductive Research Center
San Diego, CATo the editor: 
▶ APPLICATIONS from page 4
WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez6     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 21, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
On Sept. 1, 2014, Anthony West and Josephine 
Vander Gucht uploaded a song titled “Body Gold” 
to SoundCloud with no expectations for listener 
response. A handshake agreement to meet every month to 
record new songs blossomed with the support of a strong 
audience of thousands of online fans. A thousand hits became 
millions as Internet listeners uncovered their soft melodies 
and enticing voices. What was simply two friends writing and 
playing together soon turned into a monthly schedule as their 
cyber fanbase awaited the first of every month for the new Oh 
Wonder track. Now with 65 million hits on Spotif y, and a full-
fledged album of their compiled singles, Oh Wonder embarks 
on their first U.S. tour with the unrestrained excitement and 
youthful exuberance of an up-and-coming artist on the road. 
After casually recording together, they quickly noticed the 
fluidity and ease with which their creativity collided. 
“We just immediately clicked, ” West explained to the 
UCSD Guardian. “We had a lot of the same musical interests 
and as soon as we wrote our first song, we were like, ‘Oh this 
is quite simple. ’ We wrote a better song than we could write on 
our own and we still do. It feels like there’s just one person. ” 
The musical pair handled early career decisions with a 
carefree and nonchalant attitude, shrugging their way through 
life-altering questions with astonishment at their levels of 
success.  
“It was so impulsive, ” West and Vander Gucht laughed. 
“We uploaded ‘Body Gold’ and said, ‘Should we do this 
every month?’ and we shook hands on it. That was kind of 
it, we didn’t think about the consequences. Touring was like, 
‘Should we tour?’” 
Similar responses arose in the face of legal issues which 
forced the duo to seek inspiration for a new band name. 
Originally labeled as Wonder Wonder, the band found 
themselves stuck with little time and no new ideas. 
“It was Oct. 31, Halloween, ” Vander Gucht said.  “We were 
dressed up as John Lennon and Yoko Ono, on our way to a 
house party. We’ d been thinking all day of the most awful 
names and suddenly we were just, ‘oh … wonder … ’ Let’s do 
it! We loved the name, its dual meaning of being inquisitive 
and also an admiration of beauty. ” 
Oh Wonder’s music captures a delicate beauty: They layer their voices alongside gentle piano and simple, addictive electronic 
riffs. By perfectly balancing their catchy, pop vocal riffs with an 
alternative instrumental sound, they strut in between genres 
and confound listeners attempting to pigeonhole their style into 
a single genre. They have mastered a pleasant and comforting 
vibe, clearly present in “ All We Do” and “The Rain, ” while 
simultaneously featuring up-tempo hooks and beat drops; they 
stimulate dance parties in the audience while inviting them to sit 
down to a cup of coffee. 
The two musical partners recently celebrated the overarching 
message of the album with matching “Heart Hope” tattoos, finding 
inspiration in the lyrics of the penultimate song on the record.
“The context of that song sums up the whole album for us, ” 
Vander Gucht told the Guardian. “Heart Hope is a metaphor 
that we’ve created to mean love, community, support for 
people, music as a comfort blanket. It’s a constant reminder of 
why we make music. ”
Passion and symbolism reverberate throughout their lyrics 
as they spread messages of compassion and connectivity. For 
example, “ All We Do, ” a slower, minimalist piano ballad uses 
elegant repetition of simple phrases and instrumental melodies 
to express individualism. 
“You’ve seen the world in a different way than everyone 
else in the world, ” Vander Gucht described. “That’s something 
to be celebrated. It’s better to live your own life than exist 
among everyone else’s. If you flip yourself upside down and be 
different to everyone else you’ll find paradise on the because 
you’ll be happy doing your own thing. ” 
The songwriters radiate a bright and innocent enthusiasm, 
which has captivated the hearts of millions online across the globe. 
They have traveled across four continents, playing in Australia and 
eventually finding themselves at a sold-out show at The Casbah 
in San Diego. Standing on the stage for just over one hour, Oh 
Wonder brought the room to its feet in a dancing frenzy, slowed 
down for softer, hopeful tracks and captivated the crowd with their 
friendly and addictive personalities. After 100 hours in planes 
and 40 hours in airports, by their estimates, they now hit the road 
in their first tour bus on their North American debut tour. Oh 
Wonder’s popularity continues to expand as their music emanates 
from laptop speakers, enveloping the world in a “comfort 
blanket” of love and hope.OH WONDER
After their mellow tone quickly caught the ears of online liste ners, the London based songwriting duo finds 
themselves launched onto an extensive U.S. tour. Having just kicked off their North American tour with a sold out 
a show at The Casbah, the writing pair eagerly describe their thrilling musical journey to the UCSD Guardian. 
By Peter McInnis // Staff Writer
PHOTO BY ANDREW GEORGE“Son of Saul, ” the first 
feature-length film by 
Hungarian director Laszlo 
Nemes, offers a very unusual take 
on the Holocaust by delving into the 
behind-the-scenes logistics involved 
in genocide. It follows Saul Auslander, 
a Jewish prisoner at a German death 
camp who is forced to work as a 
member of the Sonderkommando, 
burning and discarding the dead. At 
the beginning of the film, Saul (Geza 
Rohrig) encounters his own son 
among the bodies he’s sorting and 
resolves to perform a traditional burial 
for the boy. 
Nemes keeps everything 
as simple as possible with few 
characters, limited dialogue and an 
authentic plot. Nemes consistently 
opts for simple camera work; much 
of the film consists of tight shots 
of Saul’s gaunt face, dignified and 
stoic, beautifully shot on 35 mm. 
From the start, the soundwork is 
chilling. In lieu of a score, audiences 
are forced to rely on percussive 
gunshots, harsh commands and infrequent, hushed conversations 
between prisoners. We spend vast 
swaths of time in silence, and all of 
the dialogue is either screamed or 
whispered, making for an intense 
viewing experience. The decisions 
to scale back sound also force us 
to pay close attention to what’s 
happening off camera. While we 
watch Saul rifle through the coat 
pockets of new arrivals, we begin to 
detect a faint banging that becomes 
an unbearable roar, realizing it is 
the pounding of fists on the door 
from the inside of the gas chamber. 
Nemes manages to cover 
inherently tragic subject matter 
without making the film seem sad 
or invasive. To keep the film from 
feeling emotionally manipulative, 
Nemes uses as few gimmicks as 
possible. This use of understated 
drama, rather than melodrama, 
with respect to such serious subject 
matter is immensely surprising 
and should be commended for its 
originality. “Son of Saul” has a lot to 
say about sadness, namely that it is a luxury not afforded to all. 
From a safe distance, the 
modern day audience can appreciate 
the undeniable sadness of the 
Holocaust, but in the world of Saul’s 
hellish work there is no place for 
grief. Saul must behave robotically 
and efficiently throughout the entire 
film. To display emotion would be 
to put his life at risk, and his quest 
for a traditional burial is the only 
expression of appropriate grief he is 
allowed.  
Nemes does something much 
more interesting than evoke 
sadness in viewers —  he makes 
them afraid. He rejects the sadness 
experienced in our discussion 
of the Holocaust in favor of the 
total fear experienced by its actual 
victims by focusing in on one 
man’s experience, over the course 
of only two days, participating in 
the grotesque grunt work of the 
Sonderkommando. With a no-frills 
approach to filmmaking, “Son 
of Saul” transcends the genre of 
historical fiction. 
—Susie  Da vidson
Contributing Writer
In the opening scene of 
“Billions, ” a man is hogtied 
and bound, awaiting a 
dominatrix: a perfect metaphor 
for the show to come. “Billions” is 
a show about power relationships. 
It is a showdown between an 
ultra-rich hedge fund king and 
a megalomaniacal U.S. Attorney. 
It’s shameless in its desire to be 
gripping, a tactic that works 
because of its sharp writing and 
excellent acting. And, like the act 
performed in its opening scene, 
“Billions, ” a show that deliberately 
eschews realism, is an incredibly 
satisfying fantasy.“Billions” follows the characters 
of Bobby Axelrod (Damian 
Lewis), a hedge fund manager, and 
Chuck Rhoades (Paul Giamatti), 
a U.S. Attorney for the southern 
district of New Y ork. Both Lewis 
and Giamatti are experts at 
portraying characters that no one 
can trust (Lewis in “Homeland” 
and Giamatti in “The Ides of 
March”), and their performances 
in “Billions” are no exception. 
Axelrod is at first presented as a 
charitable, hard-working family 
man, but as the show goes on, 
he is revealed to be more and 
more manipulative and deceptive. Aside from his wealth, Axelrod’s 
greatest tools are his intellect and 
determination. He is convincingly 
portrayed as a brilliant investor, 
a W alter White of W all Street 
who uses his knowledge of the 
market to make millions and 
outwit his opponents. And his 
main opponent is Chuck Rhoades, 
another powerful New Y ork figure 
who is determined to prosecute 
those who would usually buy 
their way out of a conviction. 
The acting in “Billions” is elite for 
television, with Lewis’ amicability 
quickly evolving into spite and 
Giamatti’s performance blending 
righteousness and ruthlessness.
The screenwriting team of 
Brian Koppelman and David 
Levien (“Ocean’s Thirteen”) 
created “Billions” with help from 
financial journalist Andrew Ross Sorkin. “Billions” contains many 
moving parts, and the creative 
team was able to put the puzzle 
pieces together into a story full 
of biting dialogue and a plot 
that moves at a rapid pace. The 
show presents many facets of 
the business world, including 
hedge fund managers, traders, 
lawyers, business executives and 
journalists. It is fascinating to 
see how characters of different 
backgrounds come together to 
outmaneuver each other and plan 
their next attack.
While the writing of 
“Billions” is razor-sharp and 
relentlessly entertaining, it 
lacks a sense of authenticity. 
While it shows the corruptive 
influence of wealth, it doesn’t 
reveal the interworking of 
money and power with any real precision or depth as was done 
in shows like “The Wire. ” The 
show is so bent on keeping you 
watching that it doesn’t bother 
showing you how the financial 
or legal world actually works. 
Instead, “Billions” captivates 
you with its characters and 
story, saturated with all of 
the elements which make for 
exciting TV: lies, machinations, 
relationship problems and kinky 
sex. While “Billions” doesn’t 
feel like an adequate real-world 
representation of Wall Street, it 
is a riveting and original show 
that carries a high risk of being 
binge watched. 
—  naft ali   burakovsky
A&E Editorial AssistantRelease Date  Jan. 17Though in need of a more authentic touch, the binge-
watchable “Billions” is expertly written and performed.billionsTV   REVIEWPHOTO COURTESY OF SHOWTIME
son  of  saulDirected by   Laszlo Nemes
Starring   Geza Rohrig
Rated  R
Release Date  Dec. 18
Laszlo Nemes’s Hungarian nightmare narrative offers a 
surreal experience containing a hard kernel of truth.In an interview with The New Y ork 
Times, famed French filmmaker 
Claude Lanzmann lauded director 
Laszlo Nemes’ “Son of Saul” with the 
highest praise imaginable: “It’s not at 
all melodramatic. It’s done with a very 
great modesty. ”
These are pithy words indeed. 
Y ou cannot enter into the emotional 
conflagration that is the Holocaust 
without great care or else you 
easily turn such a cataclysmic event 
into a ploy to play off the viewer’s 
emotions. Thus, although “Sophie’s 
Choice” and “Schindler’s List” are 
worthy pieces of heart-wrenching 
storytelling, they run the risk of 
escalating into cinematic experiences 
that lose their unassuming edge. 
That’s something Lanzmann 
seemed to understand, to get to the 
heart of what he is talking about, it’s 
necessary to acknowledge his own 
great masterpiece. “Shoah” was not a 
film at all, but rather a nearly 10-hour 
experience that is matter-of-fact 
and mundane in the way it tackles 
this earth-shattering event. It does 
not need to glamorize these stories because their merit lies in their blatant 
honesty. It is content in finding the 
truth and digging into the reality as 
bystanders, victims, and perpetrators 
all are forced to bear their souls to 
an impartial camera. As interviewer 
and architect, Lanzmann riddles 
every eyewitness with questions that 
are pointed and blunt. His approach 
is perhaps overly callous, and yet he 
succeeded beyond comparison to 
unearth a plethora of narratives that 
help form a broader, fuller picture of 
the Holocaust. 
“Son of Saul” is undoubtedly a 
more intimate study of that horrific 
time and place, and yet it still looks to 
maintain the same sobering realism of 
Lanzmann. There is not a dichotomy 
between heroes and villains, but rather 
a multitude of individuals scattered 
across the same plane of mankind. 
The banality of evil looks strikingly 
similar to the everyday saint. 
—  Tynan   Y anaga
Senior Staff WriterRetrospective  Review:
“SHOAH” (1985)
PHOTO COURTESY OF ACESHOWBIZ
PHOTO COURTESY OF SLANTFILM   REVIEW8     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 21, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  WEEKEND
The  Christian  
Lifestyle:  
An Advice 
Column 
I recently got my heart broke by 
someone. How do I mitigate 
the pain? — Anonymous
We’re rapidly approaching 
Valentine’s season: shaming singles 
through lavish consumeristic 
contests on who can most 
prominently display their affection. 
Ironically, Valentine’s Day falls 
within the month of Aquarius, and 
an Aquarius in Venus is practically 
the antithesis of romanticism; 
whoever constructed the Gregorian 
calendar was obviously a salty 
Taurus with a sassy “don’t tell 
me what I can’t do, you frisky 
eggplants” moment. But natal 
charts aside, overcoming feelings 
of heartbreak is a difficult matter 
because there’s no real blanket-
check emergency button.
There are a few procedural 
steps one can take, however. 
Obviously, delete them from your 
life like they’re an old, 72-day-old, 
tea bag. If you keep treating them 
like they’re a reusable mason jar 
that you can automatically resort 
to, then of course it’s going to be 
painful. Cut that caca out of your 
life. Trust: this sounds as obvious 
as eyebrow maintenance and pink 
on Wednesdays, but it’s the cardinal 
rule that everyone breaks. So stop 
stalking and start shopping; stop 
texting them and start talking trash. 
A mani-pedi and a night out on the 
town — or, if more appropriate, a 
deep intellectual conversation about 
metaphysics — will help to eradicate 
any semblance of the person in your 
mind, at least in time.
The goal is to forget that they 
exist entirely. In such a regard, 
trash-talking only works if you’re 
ripping apart the institution. 
Instead of focusing on how much 
you miss their kisses and kinks, 
focus on the dismal representation 
of people of color in television 
and the psychological correlation 
between underrepresentation and 
self-esteem in communities of color. 
Why bother with their timeless 
smile when you can critique and 
bully a business on Yelp because 
of its blatant disregard toward 
gentrification. Redirect your anger 
to the real issues facing America 
and pull the rhetoric away from 
whatever frivolous intimacies 
you’ve had with someone else. 
You’re better, and you’re destined 
to do great things, like start a 
documentary on how Pepperidge 
Farm isn’t actually a farm or 
designing a watch that can tell time 
on time.
To distill this advice down to 
its simplest form, focus on yourself 
and whatever that means to you. 
Surround yourself with friends who 
actually care about you and are willing 
to listen to all of your dumb jokes 
or, better yet, make new jokes with 
them. W atch movies like Inside Out, 
critique them for being heralders of 
gentrification — be angry! — and 
allow yourself to feel emotions when 
needed. Y ou’re allowed to express 
yourself and nothing should stop you. 
But remember to never stop focusing 
on yourself. Because, Jesus Hilfiger 
Christ, that’s why manicures were 
invented.
Need any advice on acclimating 
to UCSD? Struggling with a 
nasty case of the break-up? Need 
better ways to burn a tuna melt 
sandwich? Reach out to us at
lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org 
with your questions and your 
anonymity, if wanted, and we’ll 
answer as many as we can!
CHRISTIAN GELLA 
CGELLA@UCSD.EDU53*50/508"5$)
ARIELSELA  HOLDBROOK -SMITH
Interview by Olga Golubkova // Lifesyle Co-Editor
The Vagina Monologues at UCSD is one of the major school events that has become a tradition. Originally 
a theatrical performance based on an episodic play by Eve Ensler, it is now a professional project organized 
by amateur actors and crew members who collaborate annually to initiate the conversation about identity, 
diversity, inclusion, feminism and, well, vaginas. We talked to this year’s production director Arielsela 
Holdbrook-Smith about her involvement and find out what to expect from VagMo this year.
I got involved with Vagina Monologues my second year 
because I was looking for a way to better express myself and learn to own 
my ideas and my voice. As Vagina Monologues is a theatrical show, it is both 
about presenting yourself and your story on the stage. Big focuses of Vagina 
Monologues are raising our voices and standing out for our stories, learning 
to own our persons and presenting ourselves to the community in a way that 
makes us feel good about ourselves.GUARDIAN :How did you get involved in Vagina Monologues?
ARIELSELA :
This year, Vagina Monologues has three directors. Is it hard to have 
multiple leaders on the team?
I think it is great to have three different people as leaders. See, for me 
one perspective is not good enough, and two perspectives are better, but three 
perspectives seems like just enough. Additionally, it allows for an even split of 
the work, so we can divide the pieces and committees for crew. But mainly, it 
is very useful to have different types of women with different types of stories 
and backgrounds come together to form a production. All three of us have 
our own strengths as directors that we bring to the table.A:G:
As a director, you aim to introduce diversity in a play widely criticized for 
portraying a narrow, white, privileged view on feminism. How do you address 
the challenge of broadening Vagina Monologues’ discourse?
One thing that we worked really hard on was having a more diverse cast 
and crew. While it might have seemed diverse enough to some people, it was 
still difficult for students of color and members of marginalized groups to 
identify with some topics discussed in the Monologues. Some people already 
went to see the performance knowing that Vagina Monologues is not an 
intersectional show, which did not allow the audience to perceive the right 
message and benefit more from the show. VagMo is an educational journey, 
so this year we tried to involve more women with a variety of identities to 
allow our viewer to learn effectively. A:G:
Will the show itself be different from last year’s performance?
While the monologues tend to remain fairly consistent and follow the 
original play, every year we perform a new spotlight piece that had never 
been done before. In addition, what we have here at UCSD is different 
from what you would see at other universities — show flow and artistic 
peculiarities are unique to every school and organization.A:G:How do you teach your cast members to be comfortable on stage and 
deliver a professional level show?
We have weekly workshops that tackle specific issues that come up 
in a monologue. For example, it can be a workshop on women of color, 
transgender women or even aging and body image. The point of these 
workshops is not only to educate the cast and crew but also to allow actors 
to understand their characters’ feelings and background.
Working toward the common goal is another important aspect of staging 
process. After going through the training process, meeting different 
women and acknowledging your own story, once you get on stage you 
are so empowered that you just knock it out of the park! Last year, I 
was on cast doing the spotlight piece, and for me doing this monologue 
came together with inspiring myself. Inspired, I brought a voice of newly 
empowered women to my own piece.A:G:
What other activities, besides the play, does The Vagina Monologues 
organize at UCSD?
We table a lot in the time leading up to Vagina Monologues bringing 
the Giant Vagina to the Library Walk. We also do publicity campaigns 
like videos where we go out into the community and interview people. 
We do headshots of our women so that they can update their social media 
profiles and let people know what is going on with Vagina Monologues. 
These photos also help encourage their friends to come see the show and 
inspire discussion. Personally, I have been able to have a lot of productive 
discussions with different people in my life because they saw me change 
my profile photo and figured out I was in this production.
We also team up with local beneficiaries. This year are the Center for 
Community Solutions, the only 24-hour domestic violence and sexual 
assault shelter in San Diego, and License to Freedom, which works with 
immigrant and refugee populations to decrease domestic violence and 
sexual assault.A:G:
Can you tell a fun story or memory from last year’s production?
Oh, there were a lot of fun memories. I think last year one of my 
favorite memories was tabling. The whole process was very fun: getting 
together, making pussy pops that are chocolate or vanilla vaginas that 
come in a variety of colors and flavors, selling them and talking to 
members of the community about different social issues.A:G:
Finish the phrase using three-five words: “Vaginas are… ”
Hm, okay, vaginas are beautiful, powerful, diverse and political. There 
are a lot of politics surrounding vaginas. A:G:
Vagina Monologues cast and crew 2016. PHOTO USED WITH PERMISSION FROM ARIELSELA HOLDBROOK-SMITH.WEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 21, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
A review of a Charlie 
Kaufman film usually starts 
by stating how awesome 
Charlie Kaufman is. People laud the 
originality of his scripts (“ Adaptation, ” 
“Being John Malkovich”), and 
complain about how ridiculously 
ambitious (but brilliant) his 
directorial debut was (“Synecdoche, 
New Y ork”). But as much as this 
has become cliché, it’s impossible to 
do otherwise: Charlie Kaufman is 
awesome. Now we can start. 
“ Anomalisa” arrives seven 
years after Kaufman’s last effort 
(“Synecdoche”), but it’s a continuation, 
and a reworking, of a method that 
runs deep in his work—that of the 
literalization of the metaphor. In 
“Synecdoche” life is, literally, a stage; 
likewise “Malkovich” is about people, 
literally, getting into someone else’s 
head (another example is “Eternal 
Sunshine of the Spotless Mind” where 
memory is, again literally, erased). 
The trick is to seize a metaphor, or 
a popular saying, and transform it 
into the very reality of the film. This 
idea takes its most extreme version in 
“ Anomalisa, ” where the metaphor of 
the individual as a puppet reaches its 
logical conclusion: Human beings are, 
literally, puppets. What emerges marks 
a revolution in the beautiful, but previously limited, technique of stop-
motion animation. The characters in 
“ Anomalisa” are puppets that look like 
puppets: their faces are fragmented 
into visible segments and their bodies 
look awkwardly disproportionate. 
Here’s a case where form and content 
bleed into each other. The puppets’ 
aesthetic not only reinforces the 
concept, but in a fundamental sense, is 
the concept itself. 
What’s remarkable about 
co-director Duke Johnson’s 
(“Marrying God”) animation is 
how natural it feels. The puppets’ 
movements and facial expressions 
are unmistakably human, or at least 
human enough to keep the film’s 
tone intact; a less nuanced animation 
could have turned “ Anomalisa” 
into a laughable experience. Think 
about puppet sex. Picture a puppet 
masturbating in a hotel room. 
Ludicrous? Pathetic? Exploitative? Not 
with Johnson in the director’s seat. 
The sex scene is a thing of wonder. 
It’s raw and tender and, like the rest of 
the film, it’s deeply, deeply sad. It’s also 
beautiful though, and at the risk of 
making this review laughable, there’s 
at least a case to be made that no 
director has previously shot oral sex 
with that much emotion and love. In 
a year full of cinematic miracles (see “Max, Mad”), Johnson’s sex scene sits 
right at the top.  
The story is simple. A motivational 
speaker (voiced by David Thewlis) 
suffering from severe depression 
travels to Cincinnati for a one-day 
conference. After a disastrous attempt 
to reconnect with an ex-girlfriend, 
he meets Lisa (the great Jennifer 
Jason Leigh), a shy, self-conscious 
woman who, in his eyes, is “obviously 
extraordinary. ” Thewlis’s character 
knows (for reasons that shouldn’t be 
disclosed ) that she is his last hope 
— the only possible exit from his 
existential malaise.          
Kaufman’s script is, well, 
Kaufmanesque: slapstick comedy is 
intermixed with painful moments of 
loneliness and alienation. The conflict 
between the comic and the serious 
is played out without any resolution; 
the final scene would be interpreted 
by many as cheerful, even hopeful, 
and by others as terribly depressing. 
What’s certain is that, once again, 
Kaufman has created a film that 
sets its own rules and exists in its 
own universe. Nietzsche famously 
wrote, “What then is truth? A mobile 
army of metaphors. ” “ Anomalisa” is 
a devastating film about a metaphor 
come true.
— mario  a ttie
Senior Staff Writer
anomalisaDirected by   Charlie Kaufman, Duke Johnson
Starring   David Thewlis, Jennifer Jason Leigh
Rated  R
Release Date  Dec. 30
Kaufman’s stop-motion masterwork, jokes around with 
the human condition in a profoundly serious way. PHOTO COURTESY OF PARAMOUNT PICTURES
FILM   REVIEWthe  cheese  stealer's  handbook
by   shoshaku  jushakuBOOK   REVIEW
Anyone who’s a grammar-nerd 
or owns a PC might be able 
to empathize with this line 
from Shoshaku Jushaku’s novella 
“The Cheese Stealer’s Handbook”: 
“I haven’t even started the novel yet 
and some pissant anthropomorphic 
paper clip has already criticized 
my lack of proper grammar four 
times. ” The line’s a prelude to certain 
themes of the novel, including 
frustration with everyday life and 
the narrator’s failure to write a book. 
The narrator, whose girlfriend calls 
him “ Acky” and who signs his name 
as “Shoshaku Jushaku” (according 
to the Internet, this means “one 
continuous mistake”), could be a 
posterchild for Red Ribbon Week 
presentations everywhere. He’s an 
extreme version of the drugged-up 
genius cliche: Over the course of the 
story, he’s almost always high and 
drunk, often in search of cocaine, 
and spends his days trying to write 
a book that refuses to be translated 
from his mind onto the page. He also 
backhands just about everything — 
among the insulted categories are 
literary theory, cake, his girlfriend’s 
friends, Microsoft’s paperclip, most 
of all himself and unsurprisingly 
not Salinger (whose “Catcher in 
the Rye” he considers brilliant). It’s 
an irony-saturated, irreverent book 
that regularly and hilariously mixes 
highbrow and lowbrow humor, and 
its only problem is that, even at only 
56 pages, it becomes tedious. 
As anyone who’s enjoyed, for 
instance, David Foster Wallace’s 
“Brief Interviews with Hideous Men” 
could attest, liking characters is not 
a prerequisite for enjoying books. 
Even so, there should be some sort 
of variation to make it interesting; 
in “Handbook, ” the reader is faced with a Mobius Strip of addiction, 
ruminations on literary failure, more 
addiction, ruminations on romantic 
failure, even more addiction and so 
on. Nothing unfolds here; the tone 
never really changes and while the 
book is superbly nihilistic, eventually 
one gets tired of reading the same 
story over and over again. 
Despite that relatively minor 
quibble, it’s clear that Jushaku (or 
whatever the author’s real name is) 
has talent. Though the narrator’s 
snarky humor is clearly a sort 
of inept psychological defense 
mechanism, it’s damn funny. 
Particularly cathartic are the repeated 
puncturing of happy cliches and the 
deadpan black humor (e.g., “I did 
cheat on her while she was having 
an abortion. But the pregnancy was 
most likely my doing”). 
Strangely enough, it’s the 
humor that makes the book good 
— not its overarching story about 
the narrator’s relationship with 
Miranda, a girl he insists he loves. 
Unfortunately, the whole romance 
seems unbelievable, not because 
real people don’t fall in love with 
funny and charming drug addicts, 
but because there never seems to 
be any reason for Miranda to put 
up with him. He’s condescending 
toward her, rude to her friends and 
the nicest things he does are shove 
an unwanted piece of cake at her 
and tell her she’s beautiful. It’s hard 
to see why she’s with him in the first 
place or why she thinks he’s a genius. 
But, as is often the case, well-placed 
humor is enough to distract from 
something’s flaws. 
—   Jennifer  Grundman 
 Staff Writer
UPCOMING  EVENTS
ED RUSCHA: THEN AND NOW AT MCASDCAFFEINE CRAWL SDMUIR WOODS LATTE ART THROWDOWN
Satiate your pop art taste buds with curated works from Ed Ruscha 
at the Museum of Contemporary Art San Diego. The exhibit, Ed 
Ruscha Then & Now: Paintings from the 1960s and 2000s, opens this 
Saturday, Jan. 30. Ed Ruscha transcends archetypal pop art culture with 
his deadpan bite and use of eccentric and unconventional materials such 
as gunpowder, blood and Pepto Bismol. Much of his work is drawn from 
the offbeat energy of Los Angeles, which becomes translated into laconic 
phrases and words with a backdrop of familiar images or muted shades. He 
draws inspiration from the media and consumerist culture as well as the 
architecture of the City of Angels. 
The exhibit’s philosophy mirrors that of his most recent photographic 
book “Every Building on The Sunset Strip” (1966) in which he reconnects 
with past work — Ruscha is one to stay committed to particular 
subjects and themes, always revisiting ideas and deriving new means of 
representation. This exhibition mimics this tendency, highlighting the 
maturation and metamorphosis of his work, along with the shifts in culture 
that he then presents. His long-rooted connection with the museum 
culminates into a total of thirty pieces by the artist, many of which can be 
viewed in this exhibit until April 24 this year. Water may be the source of all life, but coffee is what makes living worthwhile. Arguably, booze comes at a 
close second, but at least coffee keeps humanity relatively conscious. Mankind has become so reliant upon 
this liquid gold, that if one had to choose one beverage to drink for the rest of their life, coffee would be the one 
chosen—forever and always.
Lucky for all SD coffee fanatics, there is finally an event just for this cappuccino sipping crowd: San Diego’s 
third annual Caffeine Crawl. Starting on Friday, Jan. 22 at 2 p.m. in North County, participants will stop at four 
local coffee shops (with a fifth joining in as a pop-up), before hitting the streets of San Diego Saturday morning for 
multiple routes by car, bike and foot. Saturday afternoon routes start at 1 p.m., 1:30 p.m. and 2 p.m., and there will 
also be times available on Sunday morning, starting at 11 a.m.
Tickets start at $25, which gets you coffee, tea, chocolate, coffee-themed cocktail and a goodie bag at six or 
more local coffee shops. To purchase tickets and to see a full list of participants, check out the website:
www.caffeinecrawl.com. To all the macchiato mavens, fair trade fanatics and espresso enthusiasts out there, the Iron Chef America(na) 
event that all java dreams are made of is about to take place. This upcoming Wednesday, Roger’s Market is 
hosting preliminary rounds to the Latte Art Throwdown, with final rounds hosted at Muir Woods and featuring 
the work of professional milk frothers and amateur baristas alike. 
With fame, fortune and a mystery coffee-related prize on the line, only the best from the competing coffee 
curators is expected. For our friends who prefer to consume rather than compete, the Latte Art throwdown offers 
live music for onlookers and a pour over bar to cater to every coffee connoisseur’s need. But for those up to the 
challenge, the only requirements include the ability to pour a shot and to steam milk, sans red solo cup and 
microwave. So sign up today and may the best bean win. 
— By Maria Manalang   Staff Writer— By Shelby Newallis   Staff Writer— By Brittney Lu Lifestyle Co-Editor
PHOTO COURTESY OF MCASD
ILLUSTRATION BY DAVID JUAREZ10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 21, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDS$
Gua rdian Classifieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifieds
BIKES
Schwinn Admiral 700c Hybrid Women’s 
Bike - $100. 28x1  , 37-622, 700x350. In 
used, but attractive condition. Listing ID: 
228379555 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Roadmaster MM-Sport, Gas-Powered 
Bicycle - $175. Self operated, Ground 
Assault bicycle. Listing ID: 228379551 at 
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Lowrider Bike - $200. Works well. No prob -
lems. Isn’t an adult size but can ride. Listing 
ID: 228379547 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more informationELECTRONICS
Mpow Cheetah Wireless Earphones - $20. 
Female wireless earphones, Bluetooth 
capable, brand new, charger included, pink 
and black. Listing ID: 228379633 at ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tion
Sirius Stiletto 100 - $150. In terrific con -
dition. Have two extended life batteries 
and one slim battery. Have Sirius studio 
software to manage the 100 megabytes of 
custom song storage. Have remote for car 
docking station. Amazon selling used ones 
for $169.99 with no batteries. Connects to 
wifi. Listing ID: 228379629 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
Lenovo All-In-One - $550. Used in ter -
rific condition Lenovo ideaCentre B3/B5 
Series. No operating system. No software. 
Touch screen display. Keyboard and mouse 
included. Listing ID: 224557373 at ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tion
FURNITURE
Coaster Finley Sofa in Blue - $400. Finley 
Collection. Gorgeous fabric sofa in vibrant 
blue with two accent pillows. Almost new. 
Big enough for three people to sit on. 
Listing ID: 228328579 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more informationIkea Wall Mirror - $75. Approximately 6ft 
tall and 2.5-3ft wide. Listing ID: 228379646 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Two Living Spaces Couch Pillows - $15. 
Small 20x20 pillows. Feather down. Listing 
ID: 228379636 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
tyour vision,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel to 
promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies 
on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.ukLevel: 1234 Level: 1234
SUDOKU
MARKETING JOB
La Jolla Dental Group 
looking for two outgoing 
students to help with their 
marketing, preferably one male 
and one female.
If interested, contact Maria 
at 858-455-9614 or office@
lajolladentalgroup.com for more 
information.
LECTURENOTESGOT
NOTES?
Current notes 
subscriptions are 
still ONLY $29
 lecturenotes.ucsd.edu
Hours: Monday-Friday • 10am-5pm.  HURRY! They go up to 
$35 starting 5th week
Check out website for 
list of currents and 
archiveswhat do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972V
D
T
E
H
V
B
S
E
J
B
O

P
S
HYOUR
NEWS
NOW!
DO YOU TWEET? WE DO!
@UCSDGua rdianSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 21, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
Over this past weekend, the UCSD 
women’s fencing squad won the 
Western Fencing Conference team 
championship of the West Invitational 
for the second straight season in a 
row. The men’s fencing squad almost 
followed suit, but couldn’t finish all 
the way and ended the tourney second 
place in the league. UCSD hosted 
the West Invitational on Sunday at 
RIMAC Arena.
Seven teams competed at the West 
Invitational: Northwestern, UCSD, 
Stanford, Air Force, V assar, Caltech 
and Incarnate Word. For the women’s 
competition, the order of winning 
teams is as ordered above, with the 
Northwestern women’s squad finishing 
in first with a count of 5–0 and the 
UCSD women’s squad coming in as a 
close second place with a count of 5–1. 
The Tritons swept the women’s WFC 
competition, however, ending the 
day as 4–0 in the field with Stanford 
second at 3–1. The Tritons were able 
to earn conference victories over the 
following competitors: Air Force with 
a final count of 22–5, Stanford with 
a final count of 15–12, Caltech with 
a final count of 21–6 and Incarnate 
World with a final count of 23–4. 
Their victory over V assar, which ended 
at 17–10, was not a conference win 
and was thus classified as a non-league 
win. The women’s Tritons only tasted 
defeat at the hands No. 5 nationally 
ranked Northwestern, which ended 
10–17 in favor of Northwestern. 
For the women’s team, the sabre 
squad went unblemished as it ended the tourney with a perfect 6–0 record. 
The women’s foil came close to 
accomplishing the same feat, but were 
handed a loss to end the tourney at 
5–1. The women’s epee faced the most 
trouble during the tourney and ended 
with a 3–3 record. For the sabre, 
freshmen Leanne Singleton-Comfort 
and Lillian Chu really stepped 
up and brought the heat as they 
lead their squad with 7–1 and 6–2 
records, respectively. In the women’s 
foil, sophomore Sophia Holmqvist 
performed exceptionally and ended the tourney with a 13–1 record. 
The UCSD men’s team ended the 
tourney with an overall 5–1 record 
and ended the men’s WFC team 
championship 3–1. The men’s Tritons 
won their conference matchups over 
WFC rivals Air Force with a count of 
22–5, Caltech with a count of 21–6 
and Incarnate World with a count 
of 20–7. They only lost to No. 10 
nationally ranked Stanford, which also 
ended up winning first place in the 
men’s league.
The men’s sabre and foil squads came out of the tourney looking good, 
ending with a 5–1 score each, almost 
hitting the perfect record but falling 
just one match short. Men’s epee went 
the same as women’s epee and ended 
with a 3–3 record. Senior sabreur 
Drew Dickinson shone the brightest 
out of the men’s squad as he managed 
to go undefeated against Stanford and 
Air Force before ending the tourney 
on a 7–1 overall record. 
“We are right where we need 
to be, ” Dickinson told the UCSD 
Athletics Department. “Early on in the season we started off really strong 
… and it looks like we’re going to 
continue going strong through the 
season. Come Northwestern, I expect 
a lot of wins!”
Both the UCSD men’ s and women’ s 
teams are receiving votes in the 
national poll for ranking. The squads 
are now looking forward to compete at 
the San Diego Open on Jan 23.
FENCING
Triton Women Win West Invitational Again, Sweep Opponents
Triton men win conference matches against rivals Air Force, Caltech and Incarnate Word but lose to No. 10 Stanford in West tournament.
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE/ UCSD GUARDIAN
Gurkira t  Singh        BY   G u r k i r a t  S i n g hSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
MARCUS THUILLIER
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 21, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
While the UCSD men’s basketball 
team return home an impressive 
13–3 and 8–2 in California Collegiate 
Athletic Association play, the Tritons 
have to feel a little disappointed, as 
they dropped their previous match 
against the now 7–8 and 5–4 in 
conference Cal State Monterey Bay 
Otters, putting their four-game win 
streak to a halt. But the Tritons can 
make up for their Saturday night 
misstep in their Spirit Night game 
against Cal State Dominguez Hills 
Toros, who are 9–8 overall but only 
3–6 in conference play.
“We’re looking forward to coming 
home and I expect us to respond 
with a much better performance, ” 
UCSD Head Coach Eric Olen told the UCSD Athletics Department 
after Saturday night’s game.
Regardless of their few blunders, 
the men’s basketball team has been 
fantastic this season — ranking 
17th nationally and currently tied 
for first with Chico State in the 
CCAA standings. The Tritons have 
improved from last year largely 
due to their offense, averaging an 
impressive six points per game more 
than last year, jumping from 66.2 
to 72.7. Defensively, the team has 
done exactly what it needed to do. 
By holding its opponents to just 60.8 
points per game as one of the best-
scoring defenses in the nation, the 
team averaged a 12-point increase 
differential up to this point in the 
season, which will be key if the 
Tritons want to make a deep playoff 
run at the end of the season.
Despite their middle-of-the-pack record, the Toros are excellent 
offensively, averaging 75.4 points 
per game and an outstanding 41.5 
percent from the three-point range. 
The Toros should serve as a tough test 
for the Triton defense, but the Tritons 
will likely have their way with a Toro 
defense that allows 76.3 points per 
game on 46 percent shooting. 
With their 13–3 record, the 
Tritons are three wins away from 
matching their 2014-2015 season 
win total. Up to this point in the 
season, these Tritons have been far 
more consistent and are far more 
dangerous, so look for the UCSD 
men’s basketball team to make a big 
splash come playoff time;  they’re 
looking to prove they’re worth your 
attention on Friday night.
BY   A l e x   W u
Friday Night’s showdown on Spirit 
Night will peg the two league leaders, 
UCSD and Cal State Dominguez Hills 
against each other. While CSUDH 
stands alone and undefeated atop 
the California Collegiate Athletic 
Association, No. 21 UCSD is right 
behind with only one defeat. 
After losing senior guards Stephanie 
Y ano, Miranda Seto and center Dana 
Webster, among others, UCSD changed 
its style of play and adopted a quicker 
pace led by sophomore guard Taylor 
Tanita. Along with senior forward 
Farrah Shokoor, a three-time CCAA 
player of the week, and senior guard 
Jamie Katuna, a one-time CCAA player 
of the week, she highlights the Tritons’ 
high scoring offense heading into this 
weekend’s matchup. 
UCSD scores 75.6 points per game, 
a full five points ahead of the next 
best, CSUDH at 70.4. The Tritons also 
boost the fifth-best scoring defense 
in the conference, ahead of CSUDH’s 
mark of 10th. UCSD leads the 
league in all the offensive categories: 
field goals percentage (44.5), three-
point percentage (35.8), free-throw 
percentage (74.9) and assists (15.94 
per game). The Tritons are also third 
in rebounds, turnover-margin and 
rebounding-margin heading into the 
clash against CSUDH. Individually, the Tritons feature 
two of the top-five scorers, with 
Katuna in second at 17.3 per game and 
Shokoor in fourth at 15.1 per game. 
Also, Shokoor is also the only player 
in the CCAA to average a double-
double, adding 12.7 rebounds to her 
point total per game. Junior forward 
Cassie MacLeod is also in the top 10, 
averaging 6.6 rebounds per game. In 
addition, UCSD is king in another 
category — assists. Tanita leads the 
league at 5.1 per game, the only player 
to average over five in the conference. 
Shokoor is seventh in that category, 
all while Tanita also dominates the 
assist-to-turnover ratio, with Shokoor 
in fourth. Two Tritons lead the table in 
field-goal percentage, with Shokoor in 
first at 51.4 percent, Katuna in second 
at 47.6 percent and junior guard Beth 
Mounier is third with a three-point 
percentage of 37.8. One last thing, 
Shokoor is the only player in the 
CCAA to place in the top 10 for both 
steal (fourth) and blocks (ninth).
Last time the two teams played, 
CSUDH dominated UCSD by 24 
points, in a lopsided 69 –45 win on 
Nov. 17. However, the two hottest 
teams in the league, with CSUDH 
riding an eight-game winning streak 
and UCSD riding a six-game winning 
streak, will fight for CCAA supremacy 
on Spirit Night, and UCSD is intent on 
protecting the home field. BY   M a r c u s  T h u i l l i e rTritons  look  to   rebound  after  loss
Biggest game of the year  v s CSUDHAlex  Wu       
Marcus  Thuillier       W. Basketball
M. Basketball  1/22
  
  
1/22  
  UPCOMING
UCSD
GAMESVS Cal State Dominguez Hills
5:30 p.m.
VS Cal State Dominguez Hills
7:30 p.m.
Spirit Night Preview2016
PHOTO BY YASMEEN ELSAWAF /UCSD GUARDIAN
PHOTO BY ALWIN SZETO /UCSD GUARDIAN