4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 14, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
     The unthinkable electoral loss 
of Wisconsin, Michigan, Ohio and 
Pennsylvania sank the political 
fortunes of Hillary Clinton like the 
gales of November through America’s 
rustbelt. These must-win states were 
meant as a firewall, but no one saw 
the wings of a gathering storm.
A crushing blow to a once-proud 
Democratic establishment who in the 
words of Donald Trump had rigged 
the campaign in favor of Secretary 
Clinton. The real estate mogul was 
correct and despite his many off-
color remarks and penchant for hoof 
and mouth disease, he prevailed. 
But how and why did a seemingly 
cake walk of a contest turn into the 
greatest political upset in decades, 
perhaps of all time.
     One notion that I would float 
forward is the paternal card. Midwestern Democrats are the 
product of an immigration wave 
that occurred roughly 100 years ago. 
Most are blue collar and through 
their work bring a strong man 
presence to their families, hence the 
word “paternal” being of Latin roots 
meaning “of the father. ” It seemed 
counterintuitive to court perhaps 
the most paternalistic voting bloc 
in America being Latinos, but when 
led to the gallows one quickly has a 
change of heart as Hispanic voters 
held their nose and went Clinton. 
There was, however, no hangman in 
the Midwest. The family-oriented 
Democratic constituencies across the 
Great Lakes had no stomach for the 
so-called glass ceiling. They felt that 
life was slipping away and hope was 
an afterthought. The Obama wave 
of 2008, with its overdose of passion and hope, was still water as President 
Nixon’s silent majority came home to 
roost.  Adding chaos to the mix was 
African American voting was down 
in the Motor City and elsewhere. 
Across the lake, the Badger State 
had not gone to the GOP since 
1984 when the former Governor of 
California Ronald Reagan won his 
second term as President. But even 
voting in the City of Churches was 
muted, and quite frankly I cannot 
remember one visit to Milwaukee by 
Hillary Clinton, although I’m sure 
she had visited the city steeped in 
Democratic tradition. Even in Ohio, 
Governor Kasich who had railed 
against Donald Trump for over a 
year found no adherents. It was a 
lost cause. Vice President Biden and 
the Jesuit tradition in Pennsylvania 
despite imploring the faithful to the bitter end came excruciatingly close 
but had to punt.
     Never in my lifetime have I 
witnessed a political candidate of any 
rank, certainly a nominee of a major 
party, withstand such a barrage of 
attacks, pitfalls and self-inflicted 
wounds while proceeding to victory. 
I cannot imagine the strength of 
constitution in such an individual 
whether I agree or disagree with 
their policies. Perhaps the downside 
of such a personality is in lowering 
the bar in choosing men and women 
who run for public office. But then 
again, saints don’t get elected while 
sinners take a pass. The ghost of 
Phyllis Schlafly loomed over working 
class neighborhoods from Duluth to 
Allentown.  
    The Clinton camp banked on the 
Midwest and lost.OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
QUINN PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
LETTER  TO THE  EDITOR
DANIE L J. 
SMIECHOW SKIFollowing the alarm raised 
by last year’s sexual harassment 
cases within UC Berkeley’s 
administration, the University 
of California system showed an 
understanding of the need for 
better policies addressing sexual 
harassment and assault on UC 
campuses. In the last two years, UC 
President Janet Napolitano and the 
UC Board of Regents have worked 
to make the ten-campus system 
implement these new policies. 
They have increased reporting 
requirements, expanded education 
and training, and broadened 
support services for victims. Though 
these policies were implemented 
statewide, it seems as though the 
regents themselves are not being 
held to the standards instituted at 
the very campuses they oversee. Recently, Regents Board member 
Norman J. Pattiz was accused by 
podcaster Heather McDonald of 
sexual harassment. According 
to McDonald, who worked at 
a podcast network started by 
Pattiz, he regularly made her feel 
uncomfortable in the workplace. In 
the instance captured on the audio 
recording that Pattiz aired on her 
show, Pattiz asked if he could hold 
McDonald’s breasts, stating that his 
hands were made of memory foam 
in reference to the memory-foam 
bra advertisement McDonald was 
reading at the time of the comments. 
Since McDonald has come forward, 
former employees have noted that 
Pattiz would routinely comment on 
female employees’ breasts and other 
body parts. 
In the days since McDonald’s public revelation, Pattiz has released 
an apology stating, “There is no 
excuse for any such comments or 
making anyone feel uncomfortable. 
If I did that, I sincerely apologize, 
and it will be a valuable learning 
experience. ” Pattiz’s apology does 
not seem sincere, and his lack of 
public admittance to his actions 
is disgraceful and disgusting. His 
comment, “If I did that, ” seems 
to imply that he doesn’t actually 
believe he made McDonald and 
other women uncomfortable, 
despite the fact that all of his 
comments were audio recorded. 
Further into his apology, Pattiz 
remarks, “You can teach an old dog 
new tricks, ” and vows to bridge any 
generation gap between himself 
and other employees. Pattiz is 73 
years old. That Pattiz believes a generation gap is at the root of the 
issue is disheartening and, frankly, 
terrifying. A generation gap is not 
at play here — a gap between Pattiz’ 
brain and his penis is. Women 
should not have to teach men 
not to make lewd comments and 
gestures about their bodies. Female 
employees should not be afraid of 
their male bosses. The comments 
made by Pattiz are not acceptable, 
will never be permissible, and will 
never be forgiven or forgotten due 
to an insincere apology.
Despite this public revelation, 
the UC system and Napolitano 
have declined to comment on 
Pattiz’s behavior or his position as 
a regent. Although the University of BY MEGAN MONGES // SENIOR STAFF WRITER
 ILLUSTRATION BY CHRISTINA CARLSON
See HARASSMENT , page 5THOMAS FINN
TFINN@UCSD.EDUTRUE  LIFE: CAMPUS
The Cause for 
Co-Ops
Many of my best experiences 
with campus culture have come 
from visiting UCSD’s historic, yet 
underappreciated co-ops. Participating 
in student organizations outside of 
the classroom has taught me at least 
as much as my actual courses, while 
also helping me develop the kinds 
of friendships that make the college 
experience so rewarding. 
It started when I went to a film 
night at Groundwork Books in the 
fall of my third year, and began 
noticing many volunteers frequenting 
other great events on campus, both 
recreational and political. I began 
using the space more often and soon 
found myself integrated into the 
C.H.E. Collective, visiting at least once 
a day and feeling drawn to events held 
by the other co-ops as well.
On the C.H.E. Cafe’s monthly 
historical tour, I learned that UCSD 
once had dozens of cooperatives and 
collectives, replaced eventually by the 
highly commercialized Price Center. 
Today we have four remaining, the 
C.H.E. Cafe, Groundwork Books, 
Food Co-op and General Store. 
Each of these volunteer-run spaces, 
modeled on egalitarian, consensus-
based collective structures, continues 
to offer a radical atmosphere for club 
meetings, social events, activism, 
and non-profit provision of goods. 
One can find the latter three co-ops 
adjacent to one another on the ground 
floor of the Old Student Center, and 
the C.H.E. can be found across the 
street from Stonehenge in Revelle.
The C.H.E. Cafe has become 
famous statewide as a concert venue, 
but in recent years students have 
had to work hard to keep it standing 
despite ongoing negotiations with 
UC administration, at one point 
occupying it continuously for 
months to protect the site from seizure. 
Currently, it serves as a concert venue 
for shows, featuring both local and more 
well-known artists, has free film nights 
of different themes, and holds collective 
meetings on Mondays at 7 p.m.
Groundwork Books offers an 
array of literature, especially from 
anti-authoritarian and/or non-
hierarchical schools of thought, and 
it has become a nexus of left-wing 
students at UCSD. Throughout the 
day, it provides a haven for students 
to relax, study, socialize and listen to 
music. It serves as the primary venue 
for: Books for Prisoners, a group that 
collects donated books and sends 
them to incarcerated people based 
on mail-in requests; Secular Student 
Alliance, the only social club for 
nonreligious students on campus 
which shows weekly movies on 
Saturday nights; Y oung Progressives 
Demanding Action, a political group 
for left-leaning students; and the 
Lumumba Zapata Collective, a union 
of grad students, TAs, faculty and 
undergraduates working toward a 
platform of a more just and equitable 
university system.
The Food Co-op serves vegan 
food and offers volunteers free items 
for every hour they contribute. The 
attached General Store holds open-
mic nights and game tournaments 
in addition to selling both video 
game and school supplies at non-
profit prices. Interacting with the 
co-ops gave me my first real sense of 
community at UCSD, as well as a taste 
of what it means to work with friends 
on your own terms, purely to make 
the community a better place.November Witch Strikes Early on 
the Great Lakes: Democrats Go 
Down with the Edmond Fitzgerald
By Failing to Hold Their Own 
Accountable, UC Regents Set 
Poor Standard on Sexual Crimes
The comments made by UC Regent Norman J. Pattiz – and the passive apology offered last week – should be 
neither condoned nor neglected by the Board. In order to set a standard for addressing sexual harassment and 
assault, students need administrators who follow the policies they implement.OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 14, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
California defines sexual harassment 
as entailing “unwelcome sexual 
advances, unwelcome requests for 
sexual favors, and other unwelcome 
verbal, nonverbal or physical 
conduct of a sexual nature, ” it 
looks as if Pattiz will continue to 
keep his job with the UC Regents. 
Once a regent is appointed for a 
term of 12 years, they are likely to 
be reappointed by a new governor 
when their term is up. Pattiz has 
been a member of the regents since 
his appointment in 2001 by former 
governor Gray Davis.  Because he 
was reappointed by Gov. Jerry Brown 
in 2014, Pattiz’s term won’t end 
until 2026. This means that we, as 
UC students, will have a man who 
has been caught sexually harassing women in a number of instances as a 
figurehead of our school system for 
the next 10 years. The UC Regents 
website does not give any insight into 
how a member can be terminated 
from their position, nor does any 
source of information about previous 
members’ resignations exist on the 
internet. 
It is concerning, further, that 
those representing our university 
as UC Regents have no particularly 
innovative experience in in higher 
education policy; many are wealthy 
business owners appointed by a 
bureaucratic government. A lack 
of insight by our leaders into the 
policies needed to regulate a system 
like the University of California has 
proven to be detrimental to the safety 
and security of students. 
These unspoken policies and mishandlings created by UC officials 
are unacceptable. UC officials are 
allowing a man who has a proven 
track record of harassing women to 
make vital and important decisions 
regarding our education. The UC 
system cannot continue to allow its 
affiliates to act in this manner. If the 
UC Office of the President looks 
to take a firm stance against sexual 
harassment and assault, then it must 
be tough on those exploiting their 
positions of power in their own 
office. By staying silent, UC officials 
are encouraging victims of sexual 
harassment and assault to stay silent 
as well. The UC system needs to be a 
voice for what is right for the sake of 
its students, faculty and staff. 
MEGAN MONGES      MMONGES@UCSD.EDU▶ HARASSMENT , from page 4
LIKE US ON
 FACEBOOK
facebook.com/ucsdguardian
WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 14, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
OLIVER KEL TON
features@ucsdguardian.org
A pit right across the street from Earl Warren College apartments. Y es, a 
pit with a gaping mouth, swallowing students whole as they descend 
into its striking maw. As you step down and walk through the door, 
the fluorescent light flickers and you swear you hear a growl — it has you. 
Y ou hear the echo of your footsteps as you walk down a narrow hallway with 
computer labs to your right, watching people slave away on CSE homework, 
a life-draining task. 
Though the basement can be a daunting place, it is an integral part of 
the culture within the CSE department, and diverse students come together 
there to collaborate and succeed. 
Viera Kair, undergraduate advisor for the computer science department, 
spoke to the UCSD Guardian about how the CSE department sees the 
basement and how important it is to student success. 
“We do encourage our students to spend as much time in the labs as 
possible because the collaborative nature of the work they are doing is really 
helping and contributing to their success … the CSE students are very helpful 
and, if you work on your assignment in the lab and you get stuck, there is 
always gonna be someone who is jumping in to help you and explain things 
to you. ”
She sits across from me at the desk. Kair has advised CSE students for 
13 years, establishing herself as an experienced guide for these students and 
whoever visits her for advising. Her office is quaint, with a noticeable LGBT-
ally sticker behind her on the wall and a cozy tea set against the shelf. She 
answered my questions with encouraging grace. 
The CSE labs aren’t collectively called “the dungeon” without reason; they 
are the places where students must fight challenging material in true role-
playing game fashion. All who enter, CSE majors or not, must fight through 
the dungeon, leveling up as they go and gaining experience that they can take 
outside UCSD and into industry jobs and beyond. It might be a coincidence 
that, as the labs get closer to the exit from 200-280, they get progressively 
harder. Lower division gives way to upper division as the lab room numbers 
rise, and the material gets more dense and complex. The deeper you go into 
the dungeon, the harder the challenges and the more experience there is to 
be gained. 
Students see the dungeon as a challenge and often feel that it takes time 
to get fully comfortable there. Guillermo Martin, an Eleanor Roosevelt 
College junior and computer science and engineering major, agrees with 
this perspective.
“Personally, I thought the basement was not cool or fun. I didn't have any 
friends in the CS courses, and walking to the other side of campus to sit in a 
room full of people I didn't know typing away was not something I wanted, ” 
Martin said. 
“Initially, I was very intimidated by the CSE basement. I avoided going 
down there at all costs.  I only went for my 8A lab, ” Thurgood Marshall 
College junior and math-computer science major Nicole Ekiss told the Guardian. 
Ekiss, emboldened like a level 40 paladin, can now go to the dungeon with 
confidence. 
“Now, I am quite comfortable in the basement. It's not as great as the 
beach or my house, but it's definitely a really good place to focus and get your 
work done, ” Ekiss said. “It can sometimes even be a friendly environment for 
working with others to solve problems. ”
UCSD’s computer science and engineering department, a member of the 
Jacobs School of Engineering, is ranked 11th in the world by U.S. News and 
resultingly boasts industry connections and recruitment from just about 
every company in the industry. 
“We have a really good connection to industry in general, whether it's 
companies in town or nationwide, particularly in California and all the 
giants, ” Kair told the Guardian. ”They love to come and recruit our students 
for positions in their companies, and we also have a very good relationship 
with our alumni. ”
This is apparent on campus, as almost half of the recruiters at the Science 
and Technology Winter Job Fair were actively searching for UCSD-trained 
computer engineers. 
Kair states that the department has grown immensely in recent years. 
“Especially in the last three or four years, our growth has been tremendous. 
We have tripled our number of undergraduate students, and also the graduate 
students, particularly the master’s students, have grown tremendously. ”
With the increased emphasis on computers in our society, this trajectory 
seems to be continuing and capacities have already been met. The CSE 
department has mechanisms to handle the steady flow of students actively 
pursuing entrance into one of its majors. 
“We provide regular advising group sessions for students who are 
interested in entering the major; each quarter we have multiple sessions to 
allow students to find out more about the process, strategies [for applying,] 
and if they have questions, ” Kair said. “We have those group sessions, and on 
our website we advertise [those sessions.]”
Students find that the CSE department can be difficult to get into, and that 
perception is not unfounded.
“We hear that we're a tough department and it’s impossible to get in, and 
I don't quite agree with that, ” Kair said. “It's not impossible — it's really 
hard, but it's possible and it's really up to the individual student how much 
they want to invest, and hard work, strategizing and planning are really the 
essential things to get to the goal that is getting into a CSE major. ”
However scary it seems at first, success in the CSE department can be 
found in the lab: a collaborative, focused and hardworking environment. The 
“CSE Dungeon” is not only the dark and scary place of nightmares past, but 
the bright and collaborative place of a success-driven present. 
In the words of Kair, “It is really an atmosphere of work that fosters good 
relationships and promotes success. ”The UCSD Guardian goes into the computer science dungeon to ﬁnd out what it’s 
really like and what it means to the campus’ computer science community, so you 
don’t have to.The  Programmer,
 the  Code  and 
the  Basement
By Dominic Spencer / / Staff WriterPhoto by Hannah Oh // UCSD GuardianFEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 14, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
As the soccer season winds down, it’s important to recognize one player whose 
contributions were made not on the ﬁeld, but in the stands. Stephen Zetterberg has 
been the driving force building up UCSD soccer fan culture.
The  Programmer,
 the  Code  and 
the  BasementThe  12th  Man
By Tia Ikemoto / / Associate Editor
Photo by Hannah Oh // UCSD GuardianStephen Zetterberg’s blonde hair falls to his shoulders, unrestrained by the 
headbands some of the other players wear to keep their vision clear. He’s 
locked into the game, scanning the field for pass opportunities or potential 
shots. The navy jersey on his back reads 12. Suddenly, one of the teammates 
makes a breakthrough, sprinting toward the goal at breakneck speed. He shoots. 
He scores. Zetterberg erupts into cheers from the stands.
Although Zetterberg wears an official UCSD soccer jersey, the same ones 
worn by the school team, he does not play on the field. Instead, Zetterberg drives 
the team to victory as the 12th man, an honorary title in soccer culture that 
acknowledges the role fans play in making the team a success.
“The idea of the 12th man, it’s not just me. It’s not that I’m the one person that 
is the 12th player of the team. The way the 12th man is supposed to refer to is 
it’s supposed to be the community. It’s supposed to be the fans. Everyone coming 
together as that 12th person, ” the Eleanor Roosevelt College senior says.
Sports fandom may not be what UCSD is traditionally known for, but 
this 12th man is slowly changing that with his passion for sport spectating. 
Zetterberg grew up with a close-knit family that watches sports fanatically. A 
casual soccer player himself, Zetterberg came to UCSD for its academics, but 
was thrilled to be housed with several members of the soccer team his freshman 
year in Africa Hall. He grew closer to the team members, not as athletes but 
as fellow fans, bonding together as they watched the Champion’s League 
tournament on campus.
“We’ d go to Home Plate to watch these games, and I got to meet the rest of the 
team, the coaches. We’ d all hang out together. That was great. ”
Zetterberg’s passion for watching soccer fit in well in Denmark, where he 
studied abroad last fall at the Danish Institute for Study Abroad in Copenhagen. 
He recalls touring Denmark’s stadium and staring up at a massive banner spread 
across its walls, “Best 12th Man” written in Danish. He could walk to sports 
bars from his university housing, spending game days at the official bar for his 
favorite team — Chelsea — surrounded by elated fans. Their energy was a stark 
contrast from UCSD’s games, in which the majority of spectators tended to sit for 
the entirety. It was in those bars that Zetterberg picked up the songs he has since 
taught his friends and fellow fans at UCSD. Inspired by Europe’s appreciation for 
soccer, which extends beyond the players to the efforts and energy of the fans, 
Zetterberg took it upon himself to start new traditions for the Tritons.
He returned to San Diego with a plan.
Because Zetterberg is an RA for ERC, he was around campus over the summer 
along with school athletes and other early move-ins. He mentioned singing in 
Copenhagen to a friend on the team, who loved the idea. After recruiting his 
apartment mates for some extra spirit, they sat down and got to work.
“We would be in our apartment in ERC and we would just sing the songs. We 
had to come up with them too, listening to videos and thinking about the stuff 
and trying to get the right, um … I don’t know much about music but I guess 
tones?” 
By adapting existing songs with a Triton twist, Zetterberg came up with a set 
of over a dozen songs, both for the team and for specific individuals, just in time 
for the first game of the season. His performance was a hit, and he and his friend 
group have since become an integral part of game day.Zetterberg walks the Guardian through an average game day. “We’ll wake up, 
usually there’s soccer on in the morning, and we’ll start singing as we’re getting 
ready for the game. We’ll start chants, kind of get into the vibe of it. ” Navy and 
yellow shirts go on along with UCSD spirit scarves. They print out copies of the 
lyrics to their songs for fans to join in. They’ve even constructed a trident out of 
gold spray-painted PVC pipes.
At yesterday’s men’s NCAA game against Western Washington University, 
Zetterberg led fans through “the Iceland clap” and “We Love Y ou” , the team’s 
staple song. Spectators chuckled as they watched him jump and dance in the 
front row — no small feat for a lanky 6’4” young man. At one point, he even 
caught a ball sailing into the stands with a cheer and a fist pump.
His commitment to the team has not gone unnoticed. When asked, head 
coach Jon Pascale had more than a few kind words to say about the team’s 
12th man.
“Steven has been a great side story to our season.  I remember just before 
kickoff against Chico, our first conference home game, Steven and his friends 
burst into song in support of our guys. I remember sitting on the bench and see 
the guys faces light up and they began to cheer. We played great that day and 
won 2–0. ”
Pascale goes on to recall several more games in which Zetterberg and his 
friends’ cheering has made an impact on the scoreboard. He points out that 
entire crowds now serenade the team with Zetterberg’s songs, and the team sings 
it right back at the end of a game to show their appreciation.
“The support has really snowballed and taken on a life of its own.  We are so 
excited to play at home in front of Steven and his friends.  It helps the team so 
much, it gives them even extra incentive to be at their best. ”
In October, the team expressed their gratitude to Zetterberg in a video that 
has been viewed over 7,000 times on the official UCSD Men’s Soccer Facebook 
page. The players presented Zetterberg with the 12th Man Award and the #12 
UCSD jersey which he proudly wears to their games.
Despite all of the work he has put in, Zetterberg is quick to minimize his 
contributions to the team, insisting it has been about the fans, not himself. 
However, at Sunday’s game, spectators knew who to go to if they wanted to start 
a chant. It’s Zetterberg’s boldness and pure passion for the sport that pushes him 
to stand up in front of the student body and lead them through songs as the 
minutes tick by. And it’s Zetterberg who the team misses most when they travel 
to away games. He plays me a voicemail left to him on such an occasion by the 
entire team, singing their trademark song:
“We love ya. We love ya. We love ya. And everywhere we follow. We follow. 
We follow. Because we are the Tritons. The Tritons. The Tritons. And that’s the 
way we like it. We like it. We like it. Oooh oh ohhhhhh… ”
Zetterberg beams as we listen. “They’re great guys, ” he says.
Although this is his last year at UCSD, Zetterberg has sworn to make the most 
of it, attending every home game and helping the men’s soccer team through one 
of its best seasons yet. Fans flooded the stands this past game, which UCSD won 
2–0, taking the team to the third round of NCAA Division-II championships. 
Zetterberg led them through chants, songs and clapping, staying on his feet the 
whole game.8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 14, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEATURES
FALL 2016
M: 9am-1pm
TuTh: 11am-3pm
W: 10am-2pm
F: 9am-2pmAT THE ORIGINAL STUDENT CENTERHOURS
Eliot Wirshbo was born on a cold evening in Brooklyn during a record-setting 
snowstorm. When he was two years old his parents moved to the Bronx, where 
Wirshbo attended high school and later Hunter College. When asked how he found 
growing up in the Bronx, he reflected, “It was all I knew …We didn’t think globally in those 
days like, ‘I wonder what it would be like if I was in De Moines?’ or ‘Gee I wish I could leave 
here. ’ This is the only place to be. Or, you know, ‘If only I could be in the big city. ’ This is 
the big city. ”
At Hunter, Wirshbo found himself having to take Latin for a language requirement, so he 
figured, rather arbitrarily, that he’ d take it up as a major.
“In the old days we used to call it a goof … as they say now, WTF. ”
Either way, Wirshbo found that he had a certain proclivity for the language, and so he 
majored in Latin and Greek classics. Soon, an interest began to develop for ancient epic 
literature, realizing that he could now actually understand the roots of more modern writing.
“I thought ... Shakespeare praises Avid, Milton praises Virgil, I can now read those guys. ”
After he graduated, Wirshbo went on to attend graduate school in Philadelphia, but only 
for a single year before being drafted for the war in Vietnam in the late ‘60s.
“One really did not know if one would survive, ” he recounted. “So I just wrote a very 
humble letter saying, ‘Look, I realize I’m subject to be called up, but a cousin of mine is 
getting married in June, ’ six or seven weeks later. So I said, ‘Since I might die in Vietnam 
and this could be my last chance to see my family … could you postpone my enlistment 
until after that?’ And they said sure. So I got to hang around, see my friends, see my family. ”
Wirshbo spent the next two years as a medic, his position being randomly assigned by 
“some computer in the Pentagon saying we need 100 medics. ” He underwent ten weeks 
of training, including nine hours on how to make a hospital bed, using IVs, and taking 
someone’s temperature 'The Army Way. ’”
“The army way is rectal, and you have to hold it there the whole time. ” When there 
wasn’t any enemy contact, his job became field sanitation. “To put it in a more direct way … 
burning shit … As a medic you’re responsible for making sure human feces is disposed of. 
The joke at the time was that, ‘Hey, in 50 years — which it almost is now — your grandkids 
are gonna say, ‘What did you do in the war, Grandpa?’ and you can just say … burn shit. ’”
Although Wirshbo was not pro-war, he did not resist or try and escape the draft. Part of 
him felt that the experience of war can mature a person and help them better understand 
classic literature, his chief interest.
“I did think that in order to appreciate Homer I really should experience war … I did not 
volunteer but I didn’t fight my being sucked in through the draft. I thought I’ d be a better 
appreciator of the Iliad if I was in a war myself. ”
Although he did not see a great deal of action, Wirshbo still recalls frequently being amid 
explosions and chaotic situations. He also remembers returning to Philadelphia to complete 
grad school with a better understanding of people.  
“I’m sure I came back more mature just having been through that. It’s like prison or the boy scouts; take your pick. You’re with other guys, some of them only semi-civilized, 
who are literally from different civilizations. It's like anthropology, being among people of 
different subcultures. ”
 Wirshbo held different teaching positions over the next few years before eventually 
ending up at UCSD to teach Latin. Like other humanities professors at the University, he 
fears the gradual decline in the arts that seems to be occurring. UCSD’s student body is 
triple the size it was in 1982, but half as many people are taking Latin.
Wirshbo went so far as to comment, “The school has always been science-oriented, but 
now it seems science-obsessed. Why do they call themselves a university? Why not call 
themselves a trade school?”
He went on to address the misconception that learning Latin is a chore and that the 
language is not relevant in modern times. He stood up and walked toward a bookshelf, 
packed with thick editions of the “Oxford English Dictionary. ” He flipped through a random 
edition, pointing out the Latin etymology of a majority of the words.
“So many Latin words were taken into English because English was felt to be an ugly 
language in the 1400s, and Latin was felt to have prestige and be a high class language. So 
let’s just import words from Latin into English. ”
Wirshbo went on to explain that the Latin language is also incredibly versatile and does 
not function like English, causing the essence of many classic Latin works to be lost in 
translation.
“It's a whole culture that’s wrapped up in the language. So much is wrapped up in the 
shape of words, the sound of words, the order of words. You can vary the order of the words 
as you cannot in English. ”
He pointed out the difference, and the reason this doesn’t work in English, by rephrasing 
the sentence “ As you cannot in English, ” instead saying, “ As English cannot you in. ” As 
opposed to English, says Wirshbo, “You can do this in Latin for artistic purposes. ”
Despite the increasing focus on STEM at UCSD, there still exists the unique multi-part 
courses that are required for each college. The Revelle College curriculum requires a five-
part series on humanities throughout history, beginning with Ancient Greece all the way 
up to modern culture. Wirshbo has seen the effectiveness of this program and views it as 
evidence for the necessity of a humanities education.
“I frequently attend the Revelle honors banquet. They honor the people with the highest 
GPAs and usually the person with the highest GPA will give a talk … Almost always the 
theme of the talk is how much the Revelle humanities sequence meant to them, how it 
humanized them and how that’s what they value in whatever they do in life. ”
Whether it be surrounding yourself with people from other places, taking another 
language, or learning about ancient civilizations, Wirshbo thinks that understanding culture 
is essential to a well-rounded life.  
“Education is more than just … ‘this is what I want to do, I know this at 18, leave me 
alone and I’ll follow this path. ’ It’s a lot of other stuff … it’s about exposure. ”BEHIND THE LECTERN: 
Elliot Wirshbo – Latin at UCSD By Harrison Lee / / Staff WriterCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 14, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
HULLABALOO PRESENTS
ISAIAH RASHAD
TOWN SQUARE AND MATTHEWS QUADTahrirWEEKTHISat UC SAN DIEGO
NOV 14 - NOV 202016POWERED BY THE 
STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER
AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
MON 11.14WED11.16FRI11.18  • 8pm
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guardian
Calenda r
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdg uardian.orgTUE11.15
10am
YOGA ZONE: HATHA - THE ZONE, 
PC PLAZA
The practice of Hatha yoga uses the alignment of 
the body and breathing techniques to build 
strength, increase flexibility and balance to gain a 
greater sense of well-being. Suitable for all levels 
of experience. Led by FitLife instructor Nadine 
Lindseth. Yoga classes are free; blocks and yoga 
mats. Space is limited and is first come, first 
served. Contact: zone@ucsd.edu
11am
INTERNATIONAL EDUCATION WEEK 
- FLAG PARADE/OPENING 
CEREMONY - PC PLAZA
Join the flag parade to kick off International 
Education Week 2016! The Flag Parade will start 
at PC Plaza and wind through campus, ending at 
the International House Great Hall for the IEW 
Grand Opening Ceremony and lunch. We want YOU 
to participate and carry a flag. The first 500 people 
to sign up will receive a commemorative IEW 
T-shirt and a free food vendor voucher for the 
Grand Opening Ceremony. If you don't have a flag, 
don't worry. You can borrow one of ours!  Sign-ups 
to partake in the flag parade are found 
here:Contact: clgiordano@ucsd.edu
11am
RED BULL MIND GAMERS | 
PRESENTED BY TRITON GAMING - 
PRICE CENTER BALLROOMS
Challenge your mind and escape the monotony of 
schoolwork with Red Bull Mind Gamers - featuring 
a first-of-its-kind mixed reality puzzle escape 
room, Super Smash Bros. Melee, Smash 4, 
Hearthstone, and Overwatch tournament! Come for 
the gameplay, stay for the free raffles - held all 
day Sunday! Contact: admin@tritongaming.org7am
SISTAS' NIGHT IN WOMEN'S 
CENTER, STUDENT CENTER
The Women’s Center and BSU presents: Sistas 
Night In! This is a closed event to all 
UCSD-affiliated Black-identified women and 
femme-identified folk. Join us for a chill 
evening of karaoke, games, movies and free 
food! Contact: brolsen@ucsd.edu
11am
BODY COMPOSITION - THE 
ZONE, PC PLAZA
Walk in for your free analysis which includes: 
body weight, percentage body fat, total body 
water, and blood pressure. One free 
assessment per quarter is available to 
registered UCSD students. Contact: 
zone@ucsd.edu
3pm
PUBLIC SPEAKING: YES, YOU 
CAN! - BEAR ROOM, PC WEST, 
LEVEL 2
This workshop will provide participants with 
an overview of public speaking skills and best 
practices. In this interactive session, 
students will understand the tools necessary 
to speak confidently and prepare professional 
presentations. In addition, participants will 
learn about effective nonverbal 
communication, visual aids, techniques for 
overcoming stage fright and anxiety, and tips 
for preparation. Presented by the Peer 
Educators, Center for Student Involvement  
Contact: ccl@ucsd.edu
7pm
WEDNESDAYS@7 PRESENTS 
ANTHONY BURR FEAT. THOMAS 
MEADOWCROFT - CONRAD 
PREBYS CONCERT HALL
UC San Diego Associate Chair and Associate 
Professor of Music Anthony Burr and guest 
composer Thomas Meadowcroft present an 
evening of musical collaborations as part of 
UC San Diego Music's ongoing 
Wednesdays@7 concert series. Tickets: GA: 
$15.50, UC San Diego faculty, staff, Friends 
of Music and alumni: $10.50, students w/ ID: 
free Contact: mroos@ucsd.edu12:30pm
TEA WITH TRITONS - ELEANOR 
ROOSEVELT COLLEGE ROOM, PC 
WEST
Join us for an interfaith dialogue and 
refreshments. We will discuss our journey of 
spirituality, faith, and religion, learn from our 
differences, and discover our commonalities. 
Students from all faith and non-faith 
backgrounds are invited to participate. Contact: 
ccl@ucsd.edu
3pm
QUITO GLOBAL SEMINAR INFO 
SESSION - STUDENT CENTER B 
2ND FLOOR CONFERENCE 
ROOM
Meet Professor Alison Wishard Guerra and learn 
about the courses and excursions for the 
Culture, Language, and Child Development in 
Ecuador Global Seminar. We will also discuss 
financial aid, scholarships, and the application 
process. Contact: globalseminar@ucsd.edu
3pm
ACTA & ACCB PRESENT: THE 
LOFT TAKEOVER - THE LOFT, PC 
EAST 
Come grab some free food and mingle with 
fellow transfers and commuters during Happy 
Hour. Live performance by, Shots Fired, San 
Diego's Premier Rap Battle League. Contact: 
ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu 858-822-2068
THU11.17
6pm
MARSHALLPALOOZA: FALL 
AROUND THE WORLD - 
MARSHALL FIELD
Join Marshall College for the annual 
Marshallpalooza festival! Marshallpalooza is an 
annual fall tradition that invites UC San Diego 
students from across campus to join the college 
in celebrating the end of Fall Quarter. Attendees 
can chose from a variety of games, rides, 
activities, and free food! Must have valid UC San 
Diego student ID. Contact: c8lewis@ucsd.edu
7pm
THIRSTY THURSDAYS AT LA 
JOLLA PLAYHOUSE - LA JOLLA 
PLAYHOUSE
Thirsty Thursdays: Join us before your performance 
for complimentary beer tastings from Border X 
Brewing. Presented by La Jolla Playhouse in 
partnership with James Place. Includes two 3-oz 
beer tastings. Contact: gmadamba@ljp.org
8pm
CHRISTIAN SANDS AT 
ARTPOWER - THE LOFT, PRICE 
CENTER EAST
Named one of jazz ’s future rising stars by Wynton 
Marsalis, pianist Christian Sands is a Steinway 
artist and three-time Grammy nominee. Through 
his abundant piano technique, Sands takes a 
fresh look at the entire language of jazz.FRI11.18
11am
AMAZON @ UCSANDIEGO - NOW 
OPEN! - BOOKSTORE FIRST 
FLOOR, PRICE CENTER PLAZA
Visit the Amazon @ UCSanDiego pickup location 
in the Bookstore today for in-store demos and 
learn about fun giveaways. The Grand Opening 
will be on Nov 18th! Contact: 
kmarume@ucsd.edu
12pm
FOUNDERS DAY - TOWN SQUARE
We are curious. We take things apart and 
reassemble them in a way nobody has done 
before. This is what we celebrate each November 
- UC San Diego's culture of entrepreneurism, 
bold thinking and creative experimentation. The 
campus community is invited to celebrate the 
university's 1960 founding with a bustling 
carnival featuring live entertainment, tasty 
treats and activities. Visit interactive exhibits 
from academic departments across campus to 
learn how UC San Diego's dynamic past has 
helped shape the campus's present as a place 
where discovery thrives. Contact: 
erjohnson@ucsd.edu
8pm
ASCE PRESENTS: HULLABALOO 
2016  - TOWN SQUARE & 
MATTHEWS QUAD 
ASCE proudly presents the SIXTH annual 
Hullabaloo, a festival held in the urban center of 
UCSD as part of the Founder's Day celebration. 
Transforming Town Square and Matthews Quad 
into a festival ground featuring a live music 
stage, amusement rides and delicious food 
vendors in between, join us for our biggest 
Hullabaloo yet!! Contact: 
ascemarketing@ucsd.eduSAT11.19
8:30am
MOVE YOUR PHI'T! - 
MARSHALL FIELD
RISE AND SHINE EVERYONE! The ladies of 
Alpha Phi at UCSD are pleased to invite you 
to come out for a healthy morning of fun 
activities. This year's fall philanthropy, Move 
Your Phi't, is a non-competetive 5k walk/ 
run. The route around campus begins and 
ends on Marshall Field, where there will be 
activites, games and prizes! We are 
supporting Women's heart-health through 
the Alpha Phi foundation. Women's heart 
disease is the number one killer of women in 
America, taking over half a million lives 
each year. Come out and show your support, 
we hope to see you there!!! Contact: 
ucsandiegoalphaphi@gmail.com
10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 14, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDSGuardian Classifieds are FREE for the UC San Diego community.
 www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedscrossword
Across
 1 __ tai
4. Declares
9. Tokyo cartoon
14. Javelin’s path
15. Fragrant shrub
16. Divas’ vehicles
17. Dundee denial
18. ‘’A Bell for __’’
19. Spreadsheet entries
20. Kid’s riding aid
23. Shakespearean bad guy
24. Nationality suffix
25. ‘’Equal’’ start
27. One of Washington’s generals
31. Jeff Gordon org.
34. ‘’Les __-Unis’’
37. Junior’s transport, briefly
38. Michael Caine film of ‘83
42. Walk stealthily
43. Muscat resident
44. Fake drakes
46. Cautious
51. ‘’That’s disgusting!’’
52. Psi preceder
55. Architect Saarinen
56. Certain graduate student
62. About
63. English estate
64. Diesel of ‘’XXX’’
65. Keats and Yeats
66. TV studio sign
67. ‘’The Name of the Rose’’ author
68. Actress MacDowell
69. Doles out
70. Karate rankingDown
 1 Long-legged insect
2. Genesis landing place
3. Big chill of long ago
4. Ben’s predecessor at the Fed
5. Second of a Caesarean trio
6. Joie de vivre
7. Statistical measure
8. Flat-bottomed vessels
9. ‘’I cannot tell __’’
10. Half of a golf course
11. Hinted at
12. Entrée with eggplant
13. Hartford hrs.
21. Chit
22. Roost resident
26. Galena or bauxite
28. Tom Sawyer’s girlfriend
29. SFO stat
30. Alliance headquartered in Brussels
32. Some courtyards
33. __ Lanka
35. Director Burton
36. Slowdown
38. Board-choosing activity
39. Horse-traded
40. Card game
41. African antelope
42. Star Wars inits.
45. MIT, e.g.
47. Bro or sis
48. Investigated, with ‘’into’’
49. Beethoven’s Third
50. Hostile to
53. TV greeting
54. Foolish
57. Start of a play
58. Laptop holder
59. Black fly
60. Pâté de __ gras
61. Blows it
62. Schedule C expertPETS
Two Creamy Persian Cats - 150.00... - $150 - 
Hello! I’m moving to an apt with the limitation 
of two pets, therefore, I have to rehome two 
little creamy kittens. One is a girl (Pic3)and the 
other is a boy(Pic 1). They are playful, intel -
ligent, and friendly. The boy has two levels of 
hair (dark and light creamy) and he likes to eat. 
The girl is sooo energetic, her eyes are bright! 
No ve. Listing ID: 310088197 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
Pug Puppies for sale - 950.00... - $950 - Pug 
Puppies for sale, we accept all Major credit 
cards thru PayPal if you prefer to use your credit 
card, or we can accept cash, totally up to you, 
below we have written an individual Bio of each 
available puppy to help you get acquainted 
with each puppy. Meeka is a beautiful Sable 
Silver Fawn, she is an absolute sweetheart, she 
is best buddies. Listing ID: 310088070 at ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more information
Teddy Bear male Houston!! - 1300.00... - $1300 
- Houston is a Chocolate & White Teddy Bear 
male.This Adorable boy has his current shots 
and vet checks and will weigh around 9-13lbs. 
Houston will follow you everywhere you go. He 
comes with a 1 Year Health Guarantee and you 
can find him in San Diego,CA. 619-786-7362 
or http://www.puppyavenue.com. Listing ID: 
310087920 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
AUTOMOTIVE
Pitstop Auto Spa Center - 20% Off Auto Detail 
Services Mira Mesa - Expires. CAR WASHES - 
AUTO DETAILING. Listing ID: 306503332 at ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more information
Clairemont Car Wash - $10 Off Car Wash, 
Hand Wax & Tire Treatment - Clairemont - 
CAR WASHES - AUTO DETAILING. Listing ID: 
306503328 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more informationAAA Japanese Car Specialists - Oil Change 
Special San Diego $14.95* - Expires - GENERAL 
AUTO REPAIR. Listing ID: 307261269 at ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more information
INTERNSHIPS
Sales Solutions Representative ($34k) - Insight  - 
As a Sales Solutions Representative for Insight, 
you will enter a high-energy and tech savvy 
world. We are looking for someone who is 
self-motivated, a team player and will own 
the operational processes of their assigned 
accounts within their assigned market teams. 
If you’re client focused, a great communicator 
and quick on your feet, then you could be the 
next Sales Solution Representative that we’re 
looking for! On a daily basis you will: Take 
ownership. You are responsible for managing 
accounts and identifying additional opportu -
nities within your current and future clients 
with your team of Account Executives. Be chal -
lenged. You will be ready to provide support to 
the sales team during transactions with exist -
ing clients. Communicate. You will proactively 
assist clients by finding solutions that are right 
for them and by guiding them through the pre -
sales process. Build relationships. You will work 
closely with your team of Account Executives to 
build quotes, navigate solutions, conduct client 
calls, etc. Multi-task: On a daily basis you will be 
quoting, ordering, managing your voice and 
email boxes, submitting parts requests, and 
managing fulfillment. You will also be perform -
ing pre-sales qualification of license programs, 
product pricing, parts research, configuration 
and product information all in a day’s work! 
$34K. Listing ID: 307758108 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
Sales & Marketing Development Program - 
Shea Homes - You can take a job or you can 
develop a career. Join the Trilogy Sales &amp; 
Marketing Development Program and get the 
experience you need to succeed in the exciting 
and rewarding field of residential real estate!  
You will enjoy on-the-job training and excel -
lent work experience all while being part of a 
dynamic and skilled team whose mission is to 
deliver a superior product and outstanding cus -
tomer satisfaction to our Members. Candidates 
will begin their career as Assistant Sales Agents. Here, candidates learn the inner-workings of 
the Sales operation, setting the proper base for 
growth into a professional selling role. During 
this initial time, candidates will also complete 
Shea’s proprietary sales training process, 
Foundations. Once the training has been com -
pleted, the candidate will rotate into the first 
of their sales positions, the Jr. Sales Agent role. 
Here, candidates support experienced Sales 
Agents and Sr. Sales Agents in their service of 
Trilogy guests who are looking to purchase 
a home. This experience will allow the can -
didate to practice and perfect their personal 
approach to sales, while demonstrating total 
proficiency in Foundations. Finally, after various 
performance goals have been achieved, the 
candidate will be eligible to move into the Sales 
Agent role, where they will be fully responsible 
for selling new homes and delivery of world-
class customer service to their Guests.  Mastery 
of this role will allow the candidate to move 
to the Sr. Sales Agent position. Competitive. 
Listing ID: 306484397 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
NYC Cebador (sales & service rep) - $50k  - 
Guayaki - Cebadors (sales and service reps) for 
hire! Guayaki’s team of adventurous, engag -
ing and creative cebadors and cebadoras is 
expanding! We are looking for likeminded 
people to join us in building a great com -
pany.  The lifestyle involves the cebador as 
the mobile brand ambassador who, as repre -
sentative of the company, travels throughout 
his/her territory spreading the good word of 
Guayaki and yerba mate. If this looks like the 
life for you, please write to us.This is a dynamic 
role that demands immersion in the New York 
City market and its countless communities. 
Responsibilities include: Working closely with 
our distributor partners and their sales reps to 
build the brand in the NYC market. Thinking 
strategically to set and accomplish sales goals 
in the region. Strengthening relationships with 
800+ accounts including natural food stores, 
grocery chains, Whole Foods, convenience 
stores. Building and maintaining partnerships 
with local universities and student ambassa -
dors to foster the Yerba Mate movement in the 
college sphere. Activating lifestyle pockets and 
connecting with taste making individuals via 
events and product donation $50k. Listing ID: 
305665949 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972LA JOLLA INSTITUTE NOTICE OF SCOPING MEETING
DRAFT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT
UCSD 2018 LONG RANGE DEVELOPMENT 
PLAN UPDATE
The University of California, San Diego (UC San Diego) proposes to update the 
campus’ Long Range Development Plan (LRDP), previously adopted by The 
Regents of the University of California in September 2004.  The 2018 LRDP 
will be undertaken to address anticipated growth in student enrollment and 
associated expansion of faculty, staff, academic and ancillary programs, and 
facilities. On November 4, 2016 a Notice of Preparation of a Draft 
Environmental Impact Report (EIR) was publically noticed and distributed.  
The planned future growth of the campus may result in significant 
environmental impacts. In compliance with the State and University of 
California guidelines for implementation of the California Environmental 
Quality Act, this notice is hereby provided to inform the public that the
UC San Diego is preparing a Draft EIR on the above-named project.
The Notice of Preparation can be viewed at 
http://physicalplanning.ucsd.edu/LRDP2004/environ_review/env.html.
Information on the plan update will be presented at the scoping meeting.  
Written and oral statements from interested individuals and groups will be 
accepted at the meeting to inform the content and scope of the Draft EIR.
The public scoping period for the Draft EIR will extend from November 4, 
2016 to December 5, 2016.  Written comments regarding the scope and 
content of the draft EIR can also be directed to Catherine Presmyk,
UC San Diego Physical and Community Planning, 9500 Gilman Drive
MC 0074, La Jolla, CA 92093-0074 any time before 5pm on December 5.UCSD will hold an EIR scoping meeting open to the public on: 
Tuesday November 29, 2016, 6 p.m. on the
UC San Diego Campus at the Faculty Club.   
Enter the Campus via Muir College Drive and follow the signs to the 
Faculty Club parking lot P206. Park in spaces marked “Reserved for 
Faculty Club”.  Enter the building on the west side and ask the receptionist 
for a parking pass to place on your car dashboard. Follow the signs or ask 
the receptionist for the hearing room location. Directions to the
Faculty Club can also be found at
http://facclub.ucsd.edu/directions/index.htmlV
D
T
E
H
V
B
S
E
J
B
O

P
S
HYOUR
NEWS
NOW!SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 14, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
No. 17 UCSD women’s basketball 
started the season with a bang 
and produced an upset in just its 
second game of the early season. 
The Tritons buried Montana State 
University Billings with a 28-point 
victory in their first game at the San 
Marcos Classic before taking down 
No. 2 California Baptist 82–74 on 
day two of the tournament. UCSD, 
coming back without star players 
Jamie Katuna and Farrah Shokoor 
who both graduated, proved it is a 
force to be reckoned with coming 
into the new season. 
The Tritons rode a balanced 
offense into game one on Friday, 
with five players scoring in double 
figures in the 88–60 thrashing of 
MSU Billings. 
In the first quarter, UCSD took 
an early lead with a hot start 15–5, 
but allowed the Yellowjackets to get 
back into it by the end of the quarter. 
Going into the second quarter with 
a narrow three-point lead, Big 
Blue started building a bigger lead 
while stifling MSU Billings with its 
defense. MSU Billings only shot 2 
for 14 in the period, and, with a 5–0 
run to close out the quarter, UCSD 
outscored its opponents 25–8 in the 
quarter and went into halftime with 
a 20-point lead. 
The Tritons’ lead soared to 25 
points with six minutes remaining 
in the third quarter. Once again, 
MSU Billings cut into UCSD’s lead with a 17–5 burst, and the lead was 
only 13 going into the final period. 
The Tritons caught fire from 
three in the last period of the game, 
putting up six threes and putting 
the game away with 31 points in the 
quarter. The final score was 88–60 
in favor of the Tritons
“We’re very excited about our 
win,” UCSD head coach Heidi 
VanDerveer told UCSD Athletics. 
“It was a tremendous team effort. ”
The top performer for the Tritons 
was a transfer student, junior 
forward Dalayna Sampton, who put 
up 18 points and seven rebounds 
with a clean 8–11 shooting from 
the floor. Four other Tritons had 
double-digit points: sophomore 
guard Joleen Yang with 11 and 
senior forward Cassie MacLeod, 
redshirt freshman forward Mikayla 
Williams and senior guard Beth 
Mounier, who all contributed with 
10. Mounier filled the stats sheet, 
going for seven rebounds and seven 
assists to go along with her 10 
points. Junior guard Taylor Tanita 
directed the offense with efficiency 
and finished with eight points and 
eight assists.
UCSD also shot over 50 percent 
from the field and limited the 
Yellowjackets to only 33.9 percent. 
The Tritons also dominated              
the paint, leading 32–14 in 
points and outrebounded their                        
opponents 32–27.
“Both [Mounier] and [Tanita] 
did an excellent job for setting the tone for our team. Sampton 
established herself inside and 
Williams gave us a lot of energy off 
the bench. I think the depth of our 
team will set us apart from others, ” 
VanDer veer said.
After Saturday night’s win over 
California Baptist, their highest-
ranked victory since UCSD took 
down No. 1 Glenville State in the 
2006–2007 season, UCSD now 
stands at 2–0 in the young season. 
“I’m very excited about our 
win tonight and being able to put 
two back-to-back games together 
where we figure out ways to win, ” 
VanDerveer said. “Every game is a 
puzzle and the team that figures out 
the puzzle typically wins. ” 
UCSD produced a dominant 
showing, leading the game from 
beginning to end. After a 9–0 run 
to open up the game, the Tritons 
continued to attack the Lancers. 
With a perfect 5–5 from the three-
point line, the lead went all the way 
up to 28–13 in the Tritons’ favor at 
the end of the quarter.
“We came out with a tremendous 
amount of energy and had people 
really focused on what we needed to 
do. Our defensive stops translated 
into our offensive tempo,” 
VanDer veer said.
In the second quarter, after Yang 
scored yet another three, UCSD’s 
lead was at 16. CBU started to mount 
a comeback, however, cutting the 
lead to 12 at halftime, 44–32. 
The Lancers opened up the third quarter with a 10–4 run, bringing 
the lead down to six. UCSD 
countered with back-to-back shots 
from downtown by Tanita and junior 
guard Paige Song. CBU answered 
and closed the third period with 
another run, bringing the score to 
58–50 in favor of the Tritons.
UCSD kept the lead above six 
points throughout the last quarter 
and held CBU in check, sealing its 
80–74 win at the free-throw line. 
Tanita was UCSD’s best player on 
the night, where she went off for 21 
points on 8–11 shooting, a game-
high nine assists and three steals. 
Three other Tritons scored 10 points 
or more: Yang had 17, MacLeod 
scored 11 and Mounier contributed 
with 10. Sampton led all players in 
the game with 10 rebounds. 
Once again, the Tritons shot 
better than 50 percent from the 
floor and, this time, also shot better 
than 50 percent from three, while 
CBU only shot 45.5 percent. For 
the second night in a row, UCSD 
dominated its opponents on the 
boards 37–28 and also got a good 
contribution from the bench, who 
outscored the Lancers’ bench 23–7.
UCSD heads to the Crossover 
Classic at Western Washington 
University in the coming week. 
The Tritons will face off against 
Seattle Pacific on Friday, Nov. 18 at 
5 p.m. and Western Washington on 
Saturday, Nov. 19 at 7:30 p.m.
marcus thuillier  mthuilli@ucsd,edu Rosina Garcia  rmg008@ucsd,eduNo. 17 UCSD Upsets No. 2 California Baptist at San Marcos Classic 
The UCSD women’s basketball opened its season away at the San Marcos Classic and, even though the 
team lost a couple of star players to graduation, they handily beat MSU Billings and California Baptist. WOMEN'S  BASKETBALL
BY  M a r c u s   T h u i l l i e r
managing editorTritons Move on 
to Third Round of  
NCAA T ourney
▶ WOMEN’S SOCCER , from page 12
In the second half in the 47th 
minute, the dynamic duo of O’Laughlin 
and Reilly increased the Tritons’ lead to 
4–1. O’Laughlin passed the ball to Reilly 
on the left, where Reilly dribbled it up 
a bit and smoothly kicked it in for her 
13th goal of the season. This marked 
O’Laughlin’s 41st assist of the season, 
tying her with Erika Alfredson in her 
incredible 2001 season. 
“We just came out playing, ” 
O’Laughlin told the UCSD Athletics 
Department. “We got those two goals 
really early on, and we just took it to 
them and we were really excited. We 
definitely feel like their energy dropped 
a lot after our first two goals. And then 
the third one really killed it off. ”
Though the Cougars tried to fight 
back, they were only able to score one 
more goal. In the 63rd minute, their 
senior midfielder Victoria Kovatch 
launched a right-sided corner kick from 
senior defender Haley Arft to bring the 
score to 4–2.
Redshirt senior goalkeeper Itzel 
Gonzalez made three saves, while 
Klinkenberg made six during the 
90-minute game. UCSD has now 
outscored its opponents 58–9 on the 
season, making its offense the West 
Region’s best. 
“It’s hard to come into a game like 
that: against a team that we played this 
season when we beat them five [to] 
nothing, ” head coach Brian McManus 
said. “It’s very easy to be complacent, 
but I thought we came out in the first 
half and had a tremendous attitude. We 
stuck to a game plan. We went three 
goals up and all credit to the team for 
going with the game plan. ”
With this victory, the Tritons will 
move on to the third round of the 
NCAA Championships where they will 
play Western W ashington University at 
a time to be determined later this week. SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
ROSINA GARCIA
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , NOVEMBER 14, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
UPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM. Basketball
M. Soccer
W. Soccer
Swim and Dive
W. Volleyball11/15
11/17
11/17
11/17
11/177 PM
TBD
TBD
All Day
12 PMVS Point Loma
VS Cal Poly Pomona
AT Western Washington
AT A3 Performance Invite
AT CCAA Tournament
Season Opens with 
Two Decisive Wins
By Rosina Garcia // Sports Editor
Basketball season is back, and the 
men’s team did not disappoint in their 
home-opening weekend.
Men's Basketball
woMen's soccer
In the second-round match of the 
NCAA Division-II Women’s Soccer 
Championship, UCSD handily beat 
PacWest champions Azusa Pacific 
University 4–2. The Tritons earned a 
first-round bye, and the Azusa Pacific 
Cougars beat Sonoma State 3–1 in the 
first round to play the Tritons. This 
marks the Tritons’ 16th consecutive 
win. They are now 19–2, while the 
Cougars ended their season 12–4–4, 
their first loss since Sept. 24. 
At this point, sophomore forward 
Mary Reilly should be a household 
name. Just 9:07 into the game, junior 
winger Jordyn McNutt passed the ball 
to Reilly on the right. Reilly dexterously 
dribbled it around a defender and 
launched a deep-right shot past 
Azusa Pacific senior goalkeeper Sarah 
Klinkenberg. This marked Reilly’s 12th 
goal of the season and McNutt’s league-
best 12th assist of the season. 
Not too long after, in the 17th minute, junior forward Katie O’Laughlin 
— who should also be a household 
name by now — made the game 2–0. 
Senior midfielder and co-captain Kiera 
Bocchino caught a pass from junior 
right-back Makenzie Brito and carefully 
knocked it to O’Laughlin. O’Laughlin 
then shot the ball into the bottom left 
corner from the right diagonal, her 16th 
goal of the season, the most of any West 
Region player. 
In the 25th minute, the Tritons 
widened their lead to 3–0. The Tritons 
earned a penalty kick after the referee 
called handball on Cougar junior 
defender Mallory Walton. McNutt 
took the kick to the top left corner,                 
past Klinkenberg. 
The Cougars bounced back toward 
the end of the last half and brought the 
score to 3–1. With an assist from senior 
midfielder Lindsey Ryals, freshman 
defender Emilie Allum earned her fifth 
goal of the season with an easy shot off 
the edge of the six-yard box. Game One
The UCSD men’s basketball team 
had a successful home opener on 
Veteran’s Day for the California 
Collegiate Athletic Association/
PacWest Challenge, beating Dixie 
State University 62–55. 
The Tritons got off to a quick 
start, leading by 19 points with 6:56 
left in the first quarter. Senior guard 
Adam Klie’s three-pointer solidified 
that lead for the Tritons, and they 
never looked back as they led for the 
entirety of the game. Their defense 
was not too shabby either; they did 
not let Dixie State University score 
until eight minutes in. Perhaps the 
Trailblazers couldn’t handle the 
heat, as they turned over the ball six 
times within the first 12 minutes and 
missed 11 out of their 12 first shots. 
By the end of the first half, the Tritons 
had a comfortable 41–28 lead. 
Although Dixie State bounced 
back in the second half, outscoring the Tritons 27–21, it was too late. The 
Trailblazers’ junior guard Trevor Hill 
humbled the Tritons a bit, however, 
when he dunked the ball and closed 
the gap to 58–55 with 1:55 left in the 
game. Unfortunately for them, those 
were their last points scored, as the 
Tritons made a layup and a couple of 
free throws to win the game 62–55. 
Sophomore center Chris 
Hansen earned a double-double 
with 14 points and a career-high 13 
rebounds. Klie also had a reputable 
night, scoring a team-high 16 points 
and also recording eight rebounds, 
four assists and a block. Sophomore 
guard Christian Oshita, who just 
transferred from the University of 
San Diego, represented UCSD well 
in his first game by scoring 11 points. 
“We had a good overall effort 
through the whole game, ” Klie told 
the UCSD Athletics Department. 
“We expected to be really good 
defensively, and I think we showed that we can do that tonight. I thought 
we really competed, and that’s what 
we expected from our guys tonight. 
When they started to make that run, 
we didn’t collapse on ourselves. We 
just kept moving on and kept trying 
to get stops. And we did that and 
came out on top, so that’s good. ”
The Tritons played a litigious 
game, committing 27 personal fouls. 
Dixie State outscored the Tritons at 
the free-throw line, amassing 22 out 
of the team’s 32 shots. But overall, 
the Tritons shot 36.1 percent (22–61) 
while Dixie State was only at 27.6 
percent (16–58).
Game Two
In their first matchup since 1996, 
the Tritons narrowly beat Azusa 
Pacific University 70–67. 
The Cougars had an early lead, as 
they were up by eight points at 11:22 
in the first half of the game. This lead 
was short-lived, however, as redshirt 
freshman guard Ben Rico scored a three-pointer to tie the game 26–26. 
Again, Klie solidified a lead for the 
Tritons with a layup. At halftime, the 
Tritons led 34–29. 
The Tritons hit the ground 
running at the start of the second half, 
scoring eight points within the first 
three minutes, extending their lead to 
42–29. The Cougars’ junior forward 
Petar Kutlesic scored 21 of his 26 
points in the second half to give the 
Tritons a run for their money. With 
only three seconds left, the Tritons 
led 68–67, but a pair of free throws 
by junior guard George Buaku sealed 
the Tritons’ win at 70-67. 
Going 9 for 14 in shooting, Klie 
led the Tritons with 20 points. He 
also tied his career-high seven assists, 
while also earning five rebounds, two 
steals and a block. Also noteworthy, 
Hansen and Buaku accumulated 
16 and 10 points, respectively, for          
the Tritons. 
“[Klie’s] usage is high for us, ” head coach Eric Olen said. “When things 
break down, we have him go get it. 
He’s committed to the defensive … 
[and] he gets rebounds for us, and he 
creates offense for others. He does a 
lot for us. ”
Though the Cougars out-
rebounded the Tritons 36–28, the 
Tritons led in scoring percentage with 
49 percent (25–51) to the Cougars’ 
42.1 percent (24–57). 
“It’s a very good win for us, ” Olen 
continued. “It’s a really good team. I 
think they were picked second in the 
PacWest, which is a good league just 
like ours. It was a real good test for 
us ... we were fortunate to come out 
with the win. ”
The Tritons will next host Point 
Loma here at UCSD on Tuesday, Nov. 
15, at 7 p.m. 
Tritons Dominate in Second-
Round NCAA Victory at Home
The Triton women cannot and will not stop, as they earned 
their 16th-consecutive win at the NCAA Championships. 
BY  R o s i n a  G a r c i a
Sports EditorRosina garcia rmg008@ucsd,edu
See WOMEN’S SOCCER  page 11Readers Can COntact
PHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE /UCSD GUARDIANPHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE /UCSD GUARDIAN