VOLUME 49, ISSUE 29   MONDA Y , FEBRUAR Y 1, 2016  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
DANCE THE 
NIGHT AWAY
AFTER WINNING 2ND 
PLACE AT THE NATIONAL 
CHAMPIONSHIPS, UCSD 
DANCESPORT RETURNS AS 
MORE THAN AN AWARD-
WINNING TEAM, THEY FORMED 
THEIR OWN TRIBE. 
AT H L E T I C    P R I V I L E G E
UCSD  IS  NO.  1SPECIAL  TREA TMENT  FOR  ST ARS
Triton  Men  domina te  CCAAOPINION,  P AGE 4
sports,  P age  12
MONDAY
H 56 L 40TUESDAY
H 57 L 40
WEDNESDAY
H 61 L 42THURSDAY
H 63 L 44
FORECAST
VERBATIM
THE BEST WAY TO SATISFY 
YOUR FOOD CRAVINGS IS TO 
BECOME INCREDIBLY INVESTED 
IN SOCIAL JUSTICE ISSUES. 
ARE YOU INTERESTED IN 
CONSERVING WATER IN TIMES 
OF DROUGHT? ONLY IF PIZZA IS 
INCLUDED IN THE MEETINGS. 
WHAT ABOUT PROTECTING THE 
OCEANS FROM POLLUTION?”
- Achieving Gluttony  
HOW-TO GURU
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
CAR CRASH VICTIMS  .......2
ELECTION GAMBLING  ......4
UCSD DANCESPORT  ........ 7
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU  ..10
TENNIS  ......................... 12“Fea tures,  P AGE 7
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD DANCESPORT
A recent study from UCSD’s 
School of Medicine and the Veterans 
Affairs San Diego Healthcare System 
indicates that e-cigarettes are toxic 
to human airway cells, suppress 
immune defenses, alter inflammation 
and boost bacterial virulence. The 
data was published in the Journal of 
Molecular Medicine on Jan. 25.
The researchers tested the 
consequences of smoking 
e-cigarettes, also known as “vaping, ” 
by exposing mice to e-cigarette vapor 
for extended periods of time. Senior 
Author, Staff Physician at the V A 
San Diego Healthcare System and 
Assistant Clinical Professor at UCSD’s 
School of Medicine Laura Crotty 
Alexander told the UCSD Guardian 
that the changes in the mice were 
similar to that of people who get sick 
from smoking traditional cigarettes. The inflammatory markers — signs 
of full-body inflammation — of 
exposed mice were 10 percent higher 
than those of the unexposed ones.
“The study showed that if you 
inhale e-cigarette vapor for an hour 
a day, five days a week for a month, 
your lungs do change, ” Crotty 
Alexander said. “We found in the 
blood evidence of inflammation, 
which is a marker seen in people who 
have heart disease, lung disease and 
kidney disease. ”
The results also suggested that 
bacterial pathogens benefit from 
exposure to e-cigarette vapor. In 
particular, the process enhanced 
the ability of Staphylococcus aureus 
bacteria to form biofilms, resist 
human antimicrobial peptides and 
invade airway cells. 
Mice with pneumonia were also 
found to be less likely to survive 
if they were exposed to e-cigarette 
vapor. All of those that were infected with normal methicillin-resistant 
S. aureus, known as an antibiotic 
“superbug,” survived. However, 
25 percent of those that were pre-
exposed to e-cigarette vapor died.
The researchers found similar 
results in multiple e-cigarette brands, 
though none of them match the level 
of change that traditional cigarettes 
cause.
“It looks like e-cigarette vapor 
across brands are causing human 
cells to behave differently but to a 
lesser extent than cigarette smoke, ” 
Crotty Alexander told the Guardian. 
“Each brand is slightly different, 
but they all, in general, are causing 
problems, which suggests that there 
is a common ingredient or a common 
pathway. ”
Though much of the research 
done on e-cigarettes is compatible 
with the results of her team’s study, 
Crotty Alexander warned that many Assembly Bill 
May Limit 
Out-of-State
EnrollmentUC SYSTEM
If passed, AB-117 would limit 
non-resident enrollment in 
the UC system to 15.5 percent 
of the student population.
BY   A L L I S O N   K U B O
California Assemblymembers 
Kevin McCarty (D-Sacramento) and 
Jose Medina (D-Riverside) introduced 
a proposal to cap non-resident UC 
System enrollment at 15.5 percent on 
Jan. 26.  Assembly Bill 1711, if passed, 
would also require that 50 percent of 
tuition paid by non-resident students 
be used to help finance resident 
student enrollment. 
Supporters of the bill note 
that, although they appreciate the 
added diversity and experiences of 
international and out-of-state students, 
the UC system must primarily support 
California residents.
“The University of California 
continues to rapidly increase its out-
of-state enrollment, rationing access 
at the expense of California’s students, ” 
McCarty told the UCSD Guardian. “ As 
a public university, the UC system’s 
commitment should be first and 
foremost to ensure access for deserving 
Californian students, especially when 
applications are at an all-time high 
and the state included $25 million to 
expand resident enrollment by 5,000 
students. AB 1711 will refocus the UC’s 
commitment to strike a balance to 
ensure access for California’s students 
and others wanting admittance. ”
In November, the UC Office of 
the President pledged to admit 10,000 
more California students over three 
years, including 5,000 freshmen and 
transfer students for the 2016–17 
school year  UCOP expects to receive 
$25 million from the state and will 
contribute another $25 million 
from their own budget to fund this 
endeavor. In addition to requesting $6 
million to enroll 600 more graduate 
students, the UCOP plans to increase 
fundraising and possibly increase 
out-of-state tuition to pay for more 
California students.
A.S. Vice President of External 
Affairs Krystl Fabella disagrees with 
UCOP’s plan, citing that UC campuses 
do not have the resources to add more 
students to already crowded campuses. 
“It was already shocking at 5,000; 
any student on the ground dealing 
with these daily struggles will know 
that our campus is not ready to take 
on even 1,000 more students by Fall 
2016, ” Fabella told the Guardian. “It’s 
simply unrealistic. If the regents and 
President Napolitano are able to take 
on the initiative to bring in 10,000 
more students, they can very well 
map out a plan to improve conditions 
for the 240,000 existing ones. ”
According to the UCSD budget 
for undergraduates, out-of-state and 
international students pay $24,708 
in supplemental tuition in addition 
to the $13,577 in-state tuition fees 
per year. A 2010 UC Commission University Plans to Relocate 
Sixth College by 2019
UCSD administration announced plans to 
potentially relocate Sixth College to the parking 
area situated between Thurgood Marshall 
College and Muir College two weeks ago. The proposal, 
originally presented to the Muir College Council by the 
Department of Physical and Community Planning, is part 
of a larger plan to accommodate more undergraduate 
students at the university.
The announcement came just months after UC President 
Janet Napolitano proposed to increase undergraduate 
enrollment by 10,000 across all UC schools in November.
Director of Physical and Community Planning Robert 
Clossin approached the council to inform students about 
the future additions to the UCSD campus according to the 
MCC’s Jan. 14 meeting minutes.
One of the items discussed by Clossin was a plan to 
“rebuild the [Muir Parking Lots] with 1800 undergraduate 
beds, learning facilities, a social science building [and] 
potentially a humanities building. ”
Clossin added that the proposed space, dubbed 
the “Living Learning Neighborhood, ” could possibly accommodate Sixth College and would include a new 
parking structure.
The minutes go on to say that the university aims 
to complete the project sometime during the  2019 Fall 
Quarter, and that Clossin hopes the project will begin in a 
year or two.
However, the project currently has a “no time predicted” 
status, meaning no official timeframe has been set by the 
administration.
Third year Sixth College student and Sixth College 
Student Council President Justin Huynh stressed that 
the project is still in the early stages of the design and 
planning phase.
“[The Living Learning Neighborhood] is all still in talks, 
and it’s definitely not confirmed yet, so I don’t have too 
much information on it, ” Huynh told the UCSD Guardian.
The master job list on the UCSD Facilities and 
Design Construction website lists the Living Learning 
Neighborhood project but shows that it does not yet have a 
designated manager.
When asked about the new project, students cited the B Y  JOSH   LEFLER   SPORTS
UCSD
Study Links E-Cigarette Use to Inflammation
Researchers observed weakened immune systems in mice exposed to e-cigarette vapor.See SIXTH , page 3
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
BY   J A C KY  T O
See ENROLLMENT , page 3 See E-CIGARETTES , page 3
UCSD’s ice hockey club team defeated UC Santa Barbara 6–4 on Friday night at the Salvation Army KROC Center.
Photo by Megan Lee /UCSD Guardian.2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 1, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
BLOCKHEAD From Guardian Archives
REGISTER ONLINE AT AS.UCSD.EDU/SAFERIDESREGISTRATION
FOR this quarter
IS NOW OPEN!
A.S. Safe Rides allows 
registered undergraduate 
students to get 3 FREE rides 
per quarter. 
Students must register at 
least 24 hours prior to their 
first ride. 
Contact A.s. safe rides: (619) 564 - 7998
DO YOU TWEET? YAY SO DO WE!
@UCSDGua rdianThe UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. VINCENT IS A POOPY-FACE.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Marketing Co-Directors
Peter McInnis, Haley Asturias
Training and Development Manager
Cedric Hyon
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Vincent Pham
Tina Butoiu
Kriti Sarin
Jacky To
Cassia Pollock 
Marcus Thuillier
Allison Kubo
Karly Nisson
Brittney Lu
Olga Golubkova
Jonathan Gao
Megan Lee
Joselynn Ordaz
Sherman Aline
Christina Carlson
Sophia Huang
Jennifer Grundman
Sage Schubert ChristianEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
News Editor
 
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editors
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Sherman Aline, Allison Kubo
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim, Alicia Ho, Lisa Chik
Editorial Assistants
Naftali Burakovsky, Lisa Chik, Christian Duarte, Dev Jain,  
Quinn Pieper, Sam Velazquez, Julie YipTwo UCSD Chinese exchange students were identified as the victims of 
a fatal wrong-way car crash that took place in December. Both passed away 
from multiple blunt-force injuries, the county Department of the Medical 
Examiner reported on Saturday.
Shun Y ang, who was 23 years old, and 24-year-old Manlin Y ang were 
driving a Chrysler in the southbound lanes of the I-5 when they were 
struck by a Mercedes speeding over 100 mph the other way, according to 
the California Highway Patrol. 
Shun and Manlin, who were studying computer science and economics, 
respectively, were headed to Lindbergh Field to fly back to their home in 
Guangzhou, China for the holidays, according to CBS 8.The driver of the Mercedes, 29-year-old David Michael Elmore, was also 
killed in the collision. Elmore was initially heading toward Tijuana until he 
made a sudden U-turn and began driving north in the southbound lanes. 
CHP officers spotted Elmore’s speeding vehicle at H Street in Chula 
Vista with Border Patrol agents on the northbound side of the freeway 
in pursuit. The officers lost sight of the vehicle near E Street and Elmore 
apparently continued north through National City and downtown San 
Diego, past Mission Bay, La Jolla and Del Mar.
The crash took place just south of Manchester Avenue and was 
reported at 3:22 a.m. The Chrysler lit up in flames and traffic was 
redirected off of the freeway. Victims of High-Speed, Wrong-Way Car Crash Identified as Two UCSD Foreign Exchange StudentsIN BRIEF    WRITTEN BY
JACKY TO //  ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITOR
UC San Diego students, staff, faculty,  
and the public are invited to enjoy a taste  
of African-American culture through  
home-cooked soul food, inspiring 
entertainment, and more! 
General Admission is free.  Menu available 
for purchase. Complimentary dessert is 
included with the purchase of a full entrée.  
Special gift for the first 100 guests!  
(starting at 11:30am)  Wednesday  + February 3, 2016
Café Ventanas, Eleanor Roosevelt  College
Program from 11:30am - 1:00pm  
Lunch Served 11:00am - 2:00pmFor more info,  please visit  
hdh.ucsd.edu/bhm19TH ANNUAL BLACK HISTORY LUNCHEON
Our Contributions 
Our Historyafrican americans  
in the militaryPRESENTED BY HOUSING • DINING • HOSPITALITY
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGsee more at
LIKE US ON
 FACEBOOK
facebook.com/ucsdguardianstudies are financed by e-cigarette 
companies and may be misleading. 
“In the world of e-cigarette 
research, you have to be really careful 
when you read a paper or look at 
an article that has come out to see 
who was doing that research, ” Crotty 
Alexander said. “There are many 
studies that are done where the 
e-cigarette company gave money or 
gave supplies, so there’s an inherent 
bias in the data out there. But if you 
look at the stuff that has come out 
of reputable institutions, the results 
of our study fit in with what people 
are finding. ” 
However, Crotty Alexander 
assured the Guardian that her team 
intends to improve the ingredients and design of e-cigarettes so that 
they are safer to use as well as to 
demonstrate why vaping is harmful. 
Furthermore, she cautioned potential 
e-cigarette users from picking up the 
habit before all of the research is 
in, pointing to how long it took for 
scientists to find out how dangerous 
smoking traditional cigarettes are.
“The overall goal of our research 
is to identify dangerous things about 
e-cigarettes and find ways to make 
them safer, ” Crotty Alexander said. 
“With cigarette smoke, we didn’t 
really understand that it was causing 
cancer, heart disease and kidney 
disease for about 50 to 60 years. We 
don’t want somebody to start vaping 
now and then develop cancer in 40 
to 50 years. ”
Crotty Alexander and her team will continue their research on 
e-cigarettes by exposing mice to 
e-cigarette vapor for longer periods 
of time, which she hopes will 
provide insight into the long-term 
effects of vaping.
“That should give us a lot more 
information about what kind of 
changes might occur over time in 
all the different organ systems of 
the mouse, ” Crotty Alexander said. 
“We’re specifically interested in 
the inflammatory changes because 
cigarette smoke definitely causes 
a lot of lung damage and issues 
with inflammation; we want to 
know whether that is a problem in 
e-cigarette use as well. ”report recommended that “the 
[University of California] allow 
campuses to increase the number of 
undergraduate nonresident students 
… to sustain current instructional 
capacity and quality. ” 
Last year, 1,600 fewer California 
freshmen were admitted to the nine 
UC campuses while the number of 
international students grew by 4,700. 
In fall 2015, nonresidents made up 33.3 percent of the incoming 
freshmen at UCSD compared to 
27.4 percent in 2014. UC Berkeley 
and UCLA already have caps at 30 
percent of the student population. 
Assemblymember Medina noted 
that climbing numbers of out-of-
state and international students 
prompted the bill.  
“Unfortunately, despite a strong 
directive and additional funding 
from the Legislature, recently 
released data shows that UC continued to grow its nonresident 
population while serving fewer 
California students, ” Medina said in a 
statement. “It is clear that additional 
statutory guidance is necessary 
to ensure all qualified California 
students have a fair chance at a 
world class UC education. ”
AB 1711 will be available for 
legislative hearings in spring. current shortage of parking spots as a 
reason against the restructuring of the 
Muir Parking Lot.
“They better include as many 
parking spots as they do beds, ” 
Marshall College senior Murad Khan 
said. “I mean, the parking situation is bad as it is. ”
Other projects discussed at the 
meeting included a new Biological 
and Physical Sciences building for 
Fall Quarter 2018 and a new parking 
structure off of Osler Lane.
Sixth College, in its current 
location, will also serve as a stop for 
the Mid-Coast Corridor Light Rail, which will connect the UCSD campus 
along with the rest of the San Diego 
area by 2021.
Robert Clossin was contacted for 
comment but did not respond by 
press time. NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 1, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
          
18172_10x8 OL.indd   1 12/14/2015   3:13:40 PMLIGHTS & SIRENSLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edu.
Tuesday, Jan. 26
3:30 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. Vandalism 
to Vehicle.
Unknown suspect(s) punctured all 
four tires of UC parking services 
smart car, damage $320.00. Report 
taken.
9:10 a.m. Information.
Reporting party’s unlocked bicycle 
was moved overnight and locked in 
the elevator. Information only.
9:27 a.m. Information.
Motorist caused scratch to other 
vehicle, advising OK to give other 
party information. Information only.
9:31 a.m. Disturbance. 
Group of males smoking; reporting 
party wants them advised of 
smoking policy. Field interview.
12:00 p.m. – 7:30 p.m. Vandalism 
to Vehicle.
Unknown suspect(s) punctured 
two front tires of a UCSD Housing 
& Dining services truck, damage 
$240.00. Report taken.
6:30 p.m. – 6:40 a.m. Burglary.
Two iPads stolen from closed 
office, loss $1000.00. Report taken.
2:05 p.m. Citizen Contact.
Reporting party needs a helmet 
cut off of his motorcycle. Service 
provided.
6:29 p.m. Information.
Requesting welfare check of 
roommate, subject went home a 
week ago and has not returned, 
also not responding to phone calls. Checks OK.
Wednesday, Jan. 27
9:30 a.m. Injury.
Report of intentional injury by 
opponent during water polo game. 
Report taken.
12:07 p.m. Citizen Contact.
Male subject keeps calling 
reporting party, requesting to talk 
about deceased mother, RP feeling 
uncomfortable. Service provided.
6:49 p.m. Lost Property.
Report of abandoned wheelchair. 
Gone on arrival.
Thursday, Jan. 28
1.21 p.m. Hit and Run — No 
Injuries. 
Unable to determine if vehicle was 
hit in parking lot, incident number 
issued. Service provided.
10:09 a.m. Tamper with Fire 
Alarm/Vandalism.
Unknown suspect(s) pulled fire 
alarm in absence of fire, and caused 
damage to interior components 
of pull station, damage $100.00. 
Report taken.
11:14 p.m. Welfare Check. 
Reporting party received 
concerning text from friend and is 
now unable to get ahold of her. Will 
cooperate.
— KARLY NISSON
Staff Writer
Follow us on Twitter 
@UCSDGUARDIANNew Trolley Line Will Stop in Sixth College’s Current Location
One-Third of UCSD Undergraduate Students Are Nonresidents
Crotty Alexander: Many E-Cigarette Studies Are Inherently Biased▶ SIXTH,  from page 1
▶ ENROLLMENT,  from page 1
▶ E-CIGARETTES,  from page 1JOSH  LEFLER   4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 1, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
See ATHLETICS, page 5As more and more student athletes fail to be 
charged for committed crimes, a question of  
immunity comes into play: why are athletes given 
special privileges and protections by colleges?
BY MEGAN MONGES // STAFF WRITER
There are a variety of perks held by nationally ranked college athletes. 
They are given a godlike status by their peers, regularly appear on national 
television and are cheered on by fans across the country. Because of their 
status on college campuses, many athletes accused of sexual assault will 
never face an investigation or charges, despite the overwhelming evidence 
a victim may have. Florida State University recently settled a federal Title 
IX lawsuit with a former female student for $950,000. In this case, Erica 
Kinsmen alleged that the university not only failed to report her rape 
to the Title IX school coordinator and the O ffice of Student Rights and 
Responsibilities, but took steps to cover up all rape accusations. According 
to the National Sexual Violence Resource Center, one in five women are 
sexually assaulted while in college, and more than 90 percent of sexual 
assault victims on college campuses do not report the assaults. Universities 
across the country are making great strides in promoting awareness of 
sexual assault and providing resources for all students to utilize. With a 
greater emphasis made by school o fficials on preventing and prosecuting 
sexual assaults, it is surprising that a well-known university like FSU would 
deliberately harm a student by interfering with a criminal investigation. 
The situation at FSU becomes easier to understand when Kinsmen’s 
alleged rapist is revealed. Jameis Winston, a former FSU quarterback, 
number-one NFL dra ft pick and current Tampa Bay Buccaneer has been 
named as her attacker, according to USA TODAY. The university has admitted to wrongdoing, including mishandling Kinsmen’s rape case in 
order to allow Winston to continue to play football for the school. In fact, 
Winston won the Heisman Trophy, an award given to the best college 
football player in the country, only a year a fter the alleged rape occurred. 
Stories like these are normal on college campuses across the country. 
Student athletes’ crimes are shielded by their coaches and school o fficials, 
while victims are blamed or disbelieved. These blatant misuses of power 
by school administrators is disgusting and have led many athletes to 
assume that they are immune from facing any sort of school-sanctioned 
punishment for their actions.
It comes as no surprise that many student athletes in sports-heavy 
universities across the country are given special treatment as compared 
to their non-athletic peers. Athletes, especially those who participate in 
popular college sports, are moneymakers for the institutions they play for. 
Universities that hold nationally ranked NCAA Division-I sports teams not 
only make considerable pro fit from sales of team paraphernalia and having 
their games televised on major sports networks, but continue to attract 
potential students to apply for admission because of their popularity. Sports 
teams have become businesses for many universities, and their players are 
clients. Universities will do anything it takes to keep their clients happy, 
playing and making money.
Student athletes argue that the special privileges they receive are 
Legalizing Political Gambling Will 
Increase Voters’ Interest and TurnoutGambling Will Increase the Already
Intrusive Role of  Money in PoliticsThere are More Effective T actics to 
Improve Voter Turnout than Gambling
QUICK TAKESA POLITICAL PRACTICE KNOWN AS GAMBLING IN PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS, WHICH ENTAILS THE PROCESS OF PEOPLE 
ONLY VOTING ON WHICHEVER PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE IS MOST LIKELY TO WIN, COULD HAVE VARIOUS EFFECTS.
It is well known that the United States voter 
turnout is abysmal. As seen by a Pew Research 
study, the U.S. is ranked 31st for voter turnout 
among the 34 developed, democratic countries 
in the Organization for Economic Cooperation 
and Development. Clearly, we need to increase 
votership, and legalizing political gambling — 
betting money on the likelihood of political 
events — may be an effective solution.
Through investing their own money into 
politics, voters would learn about the candidates’ 
viewpoints and backgrounds. As seen in The 
Daily Show with Trevor Noah, when a group of 
men playing fantasy football were more willing 
to educate themselves on politics when money 
was put on the table, it is clear that gambling 
would increase awareness and voter turnout.
According to CNN, before electronic polling 
became standard, election wagering was one 
of the best ways to predict an election. In fact, 
the United Kingdom still allows betting on 
elections, and there are various prediction 
markets, including Pivit and PredictIt, which 
allow participants to bet points over political 
events. Political gambling is already taking place 
nationally. Lawyer Frank Silinsky says that the 
distribution of stories related to betting amounts 
on a candidate does not directly impact the 
voting outcome in such a large election.
U.S. political ignorance is a running joke that 
needs to end. It’s time to make tangible progress 
toward higher voter turnout, a standard in most 
other developed countries. Legalizing political 
gambling in the U.S. will offer voters incentive 
to become informed without drastically 
impacting the outcome of the race.
      — AARTHI VENKAT
                              Staff WriterFrom W all Street to Vegas, Americans love 
to make money by taking risks, and many now 
ask why politics should serve as any exception. 
Legalizing bets on who will win the presidential 
election might seem like a harmless way to 
encourage voter turnout, but in reality, it would 
just give the rich another way to buy influence in 
government and corrupt the system.
We must consider the difference between the 
candidate most likely to win and the candidate 
we would like to win. Gambling encourages us 
to predict the most popular candidate and do all 
we can to ensure they win for the sake of our big 
payout. This would mean voting for them instead 
of for the candidate with whom we most agree. 
Unlike American betting, Europeans who bet on 
American elections run no risk of distorting the 
results because they cannot actually vote in them.
Any stockbroker can attest to the volatility of 
public perception and how deeply it affects value. 
In a nation where blocs of the populace vote 
for monetary gain, mere public perception of a 
candidate leading the race could catapult them to 
win by a landslide. Corporations with stakes in a 
given outcome would bombard us with ads and 
polls, not to inform us, but to sell us a product, 
skew public perceptions and manipulate voters for 
profit even more than they already do.
Elections must remain equally accessible to 
every citizen. If political gambling were common 
practice, it could disenfranchise recovering 
addicts and youths under 21 who might feel that 
they have to avoid political venues or discussions. 
In all, gambling would take us in the wrong 
direction, making the polls less accessible and 
cementing money’s role in politics.
                                 — THOMAS FINN
                              S enior Staff WriterWhile allowing gambling in presidential 
elections may increase voter turnout, it 
may actually increase political ignorance 
and encourage apathy toward elections. 
A government-funded movement toward 
alternative methods for increasing voter turnout 
would be much more effective.
With the use of social media at an all-time 
high, social media sites are major players in 
politics. Donald Trump has used social media 
to gain leverage and popularity in his campaign. 
President Obama relied on the same technique 
to increase turnout in 2008. The Seattle Times 
explains that “a third of a million more people 
showed up at the ballot box” for Obama’s election 
after Facebook had a “get out the vote” message 
on its news feed for the first time. This use of 
social media has not only increased the number 
of voters in elections, but has achieved this goal 
without relying on gambling.
In countries such as Australia, voting is 
mandatory and people who don’t vote are fined. 
In fact, MinnPost states that the four countries 
with the highest voter turnout have mandatory 
voting laws. Tax deductible voting also proves 
to promote voting and engage citizens in the 
political process, as discussed by FairVote. 
Policies such as these promote voting without 
simply expecting voters to place their bets on 
who they assume is most likely to win.
Considering that 60 percent of America’s 
voting population do not vote, according to 
MinnPost, America’s government clearly needs 
to use the popularity of social media and enforce 
stricter policies so that voter turnout increases 
for the right reasons.
                                 — EMILY COLLINS                               
Staff WriterHow-To 
Guru: 
Achieving
Gluttony
It’s time to discuss more 
important matters relating to our 
campus well-being. Specifically, 
lunch. I’m a big proponent of lunch, 
dinner, breakfast, second breakfast, 
afternoon tea and supper — not 
to mention the occasional snack. 
Therefore, I consider myself quite the 
food connoisseur, a foodie and lover 
of all food-related activities. Out of 
the kindness of my gluttonous heart, 
I’m happy to share with you the 
secrets to my success for how to find 
food on campus.
The first way to find food is 
to simply walk into any of HDH’s 
fantastic dining halls and order 
any of their delectable dishes. Our 
on-campus food is prepared by a 
world-class chefs paid large sums 
of money to serve only the most 
exquisite food. Dining hall food is 
also unparalleled in value, especially 
since HDH clearly places student well-
being as a top priority. We should be 
grateful that our wise overseers have 
seen fit to grant us such a fine dining 
and housing experience.
However, not everyone has access 
to the exquisite dining halls on 
campus. Perhaps you are not gifted 
with the luxury of dining dollars, or 
maybe student tuition raises have put 
a strain on your wallet. Never fear, the 
Guru is here to solve your starving 
stomach. Part of your daily breakfast 
routine will now involve opening 
special goody bags called “dumpsters” 
placed behind buildings. These 
goody bags are often full of free and 
delicious food with many interesting 
and unique garnishes, including the 
famous “Guru-Blue mold, ” “Guardian-
Green maggots, ” and the exquisite 
“San Diego night crawlers. ” 
However, you might be 
feeling a little squeamish about 
the fine selection of dumpster-
diving delicacies. In that case, I 
recommend joining every single 
campus organization, so long as 
they provide food at the meetings. 
Cozy up to the club president and let 
them know with a gentle nudge that 
providing In-N-Out cheeseburgers 
at their weekly meetings could really 
improve turnout. If they include 
ice-cream sundaes, they may even 
become the finest, most well-liked 
organization on this campus. What 
better way is there to create feasible 
reform at UCSD than to feed the 
entire student population?
The best way to satisfy your food 
cravings is to become incredibly 
invested in social justice issues. Are 
you interested in conserving water 
in times of drought? Only if pizza is 
included in the meetings. What about 
protecting the oceans from pollution? 
Only if they serve shrimp and salmon 
during your visit. It’s important to 
note that you don’t actually have to 
care about these causes.
All you need to care about is the 
free food, of which there is plenty. 
Fill up your backpack with extra food 
and don’t worry about being a noisy 
eater in the library as you crunch 
on cheetos. The students studying 
around you will learn to appreciate 
the musical sounds of your chewing. 
After all, you’ve earned it by joining 
a record 157 student organizations in 
the first three weeks. Now start food-
hunting, fellow Tritons.
A THLETIC
 IMMUNITYOPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CASSIA POLLOCK
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
ILLUSTRA TION   B Y  ALEX  LIANGOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 1, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
warranted: They put in hours of 
workouts and practices, while still 
going to school full-time. While 
this is true, it doesn’t excuse the fact 
that many institutions around the 
country are blatantly letting their 
athletes o ff the hook for federal 
crimes. Last July, ESPN released the 
results of a study they conducted on 
10 college campuses across the US, 
in which they cross-referenced the 
basketball and football rosters of these 
10 schools from 2009–2014 with 
accompanying school and city police 
reports. They found that although 
a large percentage of athletes were 
named as suspects in crimes, they hardly ever faced charges, and those 
charges were not prosecuted. In the 
case of Florida State, 66 members 
of the men’s basketball and football 
teams were named in criminal 
allegations; in 70 percent of those 
incidents, the athletes were never 
charged, or the charges against them 
were dropped and never prosecuted.  
This is a problem being seen over 
and over again on college campuses 
across the country. With powerful 
lawyers, athletic directors interrupting 
investigations and team solidarity, 
most cases fail to ever see the light of 
day. Sexual assault victims are also 
often too scared to come forward. Not 
only would they have to face their 
accuser and their entire school, but they would now have to face media 
outlets and team fans. While athletes 
are exploited as cash cows, victims 
are never given the justice they so 
rightly deserve. Universities need to 
stop prioritizing their clean records 
and ability to make money over 
the safety of their students. College 
administrations have a responsibility 
to protect the rights of all students, 
not just those in the spotlight. Student 
athletes need to understand that while 
they do play a vital role on their school 
campus, they are not above the moral 
and ethical standards that all students 
are expected to abide by.
Nina Simone is one of 
the most inﬂuential, 
beloved, provocative, 
and least understood 
artists of our time.
Thursday, February 4
8 pm Movie
Free movie for  
UCSD Students
artpower .ucsd.edu
858.534.TIXSWHAT HAPPENED, MISS SIMONE?
Dr. Terranova, Dr. Sherman, and Dr. Horne
TORREY PINES
DENTAL ARTS
We welcome UCSD Staff & Students
Richard L Sherman DDS
Steven B. Horne DDS
Scripps/Ximed Medical Center
9850 Genessee Avenue #720
La Jolla, CA 92037
858-453-5525
Info@TorreyPinesDentalArts.com
www.TorreyPinesDentalArts.com'"! $! $
$""
'"	!# !
'%""!
 !
'
!&!! #!
 " !! "	!
"	#!
CalCopyUCSD@gmai l.comLowest
Prices POSTER PRINTINGPRINT/ COPY FILES
'' FedExFastest
ServiceReaders printed in 1 day.Cal Copy UCSD Course Readers
SAME DAY COLOR POSTER PRINTING!WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
Student Athletes Must Face Fair Punishment for Crimes and Offenses
▶ ATHLETICS from page 4.
MEGAN  MONGES    MMONGES@UCSD.EDU
GOT ISSUES?
BE HEARD
BY YOUR PEERS!SEND YOUR 
LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
Karmonize.org  is a student organization
where we can support good causes,
cooperate, and volunteer to
improve the UCSD community.HELP OTHERS, FIND HELP
WHEN YOU NEED IT, AND
MAKE KARMA REAL!
6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 1, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
ALLISON  KUBO
features@ucsdguardian.org
When many people think about UCSD, they imagine 
a campus sprawling with technological, medical 
and engineering genius; a rational place, which 
draws on logic and formulae to conceptualize a better future for 
mankind. These people are not wrong to think this. Actually, 
their presumption hits the nail squarely on the head in regard 
to the talent found within the six colleges of our university, but 
what they often seem to forget is that, on the opposite side of the 
academic spectrum, the 
university facilitates an 
equivalent amount of 
brilliance in the study of 
the arts. 
Aside from other 
vitally important arts and 
humanities programs 
like history, literature, 
music, philosophy and 
visual arts, the theatre 
and dance program 
at UCSD has grown 
to be one of the most 
immersive educational 
experiences on campus. 
Consistently ranked 
among the top theatre 
training programs in the 
country, the department 
of theatre and dance 
offers degrees in acting, 
dance, directing and 
playwriting, to name 
just a few. And while the 
world-renowned faculty contributes significantly to the allure of 
this comprehensive program, the university’s close relationship 
with the award-winning La Jolla Playhouse offers theatre and 
dance students a rare opportunity to practice alongside working 
professionals. 
The history of UCSD’s partnership with the La Jolla Playhouse 
dates back to the university’s inception in 1960, when the 
university integrated the already established Playhouse into 
the theatre and dance program. Since then, the Playhouse has 
fashioned an impressive repertoire which includes 44 world 
premieres, 24 west coast premieres, seven American premieres 
and over 300 honors, including the 1993 Tony Award for 
America’s Outstanding Regional Theatre. The relationship 
between the La Jolla Playhouse and UCSD is best described as 
symbiotic, with the Playhouse providing the university with extraordinary artists, innovative productions and creative 
leadership; the department of theatre and dance reciprocates 
with the idealism and energy of eager students. Despite being 
financially independent institutions, UCSD and the La Jolla 
Playhouse have figured out how to make their relationship 
mutually beneficial for everyone involved. 
Jaime Castaneda, the associate artistic director of the 
Playhouse and director of the venue’s latest play, “Guards at the 
Taj” by Rajiv Joseph, was one of these eager-to-learn theatre 
students only a short time ago. His love for the arts started with 
cinema but, after enrolling in a high school acting class under the 
guidance of an inspirational teacher, he redirected his interest 
toward the stage. After college, Castaneda obtained an M.F.A. 
in directing from the University of Texas, Austin and was soon 
climbing the rungs of showbusiness. He was the founding artistic 
director of FireStarter Productions in Texas and travelled with the 
American Theatre Company in Chicago as an ensemble member 
by the age of 28, prior to being hand picked by the Playhouse in 
December 2014. In addition, he worked for five years as artistic 
associate at the Atlantic Theatre Company in New York City. 
Due to Castaneda’s artistic experiences as a young, malleable 
arts student, and his eventual evolution into the accomplished 
creator he is today, the youthful director has gained a strong 
understanding of the importance of letting students in on the 
excitement of theatre. 
“We have theatre and dance students working with us all 
season long at the Playhouse, and I would love to continue to get 
them involved, ” Castaneda told the UCSD Guardian. “We want 
to keep our doors open to students. Connecting with the next 
generation is vital to keeping [theatre] work urgent. ”
While Castaneda’s faith in the creative potential of Generation 
X may be steadfast, millennials seem to have a hard time finding 
expressive value in theatre. Young adults are more accustomed 
UCSD’s partnership with the La Jolla Playhouse has made for a thriving arts community, juxtaposed 
with the university’s STEM-dominated campus.  Associate Artistic Director Jaime Castaneda offers 
his perspective on the importance of expression at academic institutions.The  show   goes  on
by Matthew Zamudio  // Contributing writer
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE // UCSD GUARDIAN
PHOTO COURTESY OF LA JOLLA PLAY HOUSEPHOTO COURTESY OF LA JOLLA PLAY HOUSE
See PLAYHOUSE , page 8FEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 1, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
The dance begins with a primal scream from the men, who are 
separate from the women. After the women dance around the men 
in what Paula Anzenberg, the UCSD Dancesport captain, 
calls a “mating ritual, ” the separated couples come together. 
Following a five-minute bout filled with tricks and 
technically challenging dancing, 
“Tribe” culminates in what can 
be described as a tribal ceremony, 
with the men and women dancing 
around each other in a spiral. It all 
ends with the Dancesport tribe stomping 
off of the stage, with the center man carrying his 
partner on his shoulders during the final act of a performance 
months in the making.
UCSD Dancesport travelled to Columbus on Nov. 18, 2015, 
after a five-year hiatus, to compete at the United States National 
Collegiate Championships for Dancesport, or the largest 
professional and amateur dance competition in the world. They 
participated in the formation event in which teams of couples 
perform routines to pre-selected music, in a seven couple 
formation, and are judged on factors including technique, 
synchronicity and creativity. After three days of practice and 
performing in front of the judges, UCSD Dancesport won 
second-place.
The team is well-known for the fun, complex and often 
zany formation routines that coach Peter Edwards arranges, 
even though they never lose focus of both formation and 
couples dancing. Among them is a Zoolander-inspired 
routine which won the national championship in 2010. 
This year, the team danced a routine known simply as 
“Tribe. ” Anything but zany, it is a mixture of intensity 
and ferocity with forcefully percussive music. 
Anzenberg, who led the effort to go to nationals 
since May, was especially excited to perform 
“Tribe. ” The routine was developed for 
the Varsity Dancesport team in 2012 
before it was cycled to Junior Varsity 
two years later; Anzenberg joined 
the Varsity team the same year 
“Tribe” was passed down to JV .
“ ‘Tribe’ is definitely 
everyone’s favorite, ” 
Anzenberg told the 
UCSD Guardian. “When 
nationals came, I said this 
is my chance to do ‘Tribe’ 
because it’s absolutely a 
wonderful, fun routine. 
Most of our routines 
are smiley and happy 
… This was raw 
emotion … It’s 
a very fierce 
routine. ”
Fernando 
Cortez, a 
new member 
of the 
team, felt that the team’s 
bonding motivated the dancers to do well.
“It was just the 14 of us, seven 
couples, ” Cortez said. “It was really 
compact, really tight. The girls got to 
bond on their own time. The guys became 
more than just friends — they became brothers in a 
sense. And all together we became a family … After having 
a family aspect, I don’t want to let these people, that I now 
consider family, down. ”
UCSD arrived in Columbus as an underdog. While some 
schools that compete in Dancesport have teams made up of students 
majoring in dance, UCSD’s team is made up of students studying 
everything from engineering to public health. Also, while other schools 
often have much more experienced dancers on their teams, the majority 
of students on UCSD’s national team had only started learning Latin and 
ballroom dance the year prior to the competition. Just four of the dancers representing UCSD at nationals — Lissette Lozano, Sydney Swanson, 
Paula Anzenberg and Bharathan Balaji — had had two or more years of 
Dancesport experience. Coach Peter Edwards, however, knew that his team 
could succeed through practice and rehearsal. 
“ T h e one thing that people don’t realize is that most 
professionals have failed more times than the 
beginner has even started, ” Edwards told the 
Guardian.“That’s the whole trick. We just 
do it again and again. That’s what the kids 
did that was different from last year. We 
even left four days early so that I could 
have them for eight hours a day and acted 
like a boot camp. Rehearsal is what makes 
the dancing look more natural. ” 
Edwards, who coached 
UCSD through four national 
championships, was proud of the 
team’s performance.
“I was incredibly happy, ” 
Edwards said. “The minute 
they stepped off the floor, I 
congratulated them, and I 
said you did exactly what I 
asked you to do. I never, ever 
want to leave a question about 
whether or not we could have 
done something better. And 
those kids gave everything 
they had, and they left it in the 
hand of the judges to judge 
and to actually have to make 
decisions. ”
Through their publicity 
efforts, and Go Fund Me page, 
the team was eventually 
discovered by a 
producer for 
“A m e r i c a’s  
Got Talent” 
who invited 
the team to 
pre-audition 
for the show. On 
Jan. 12, UCSD 
Dancesport national’s 
team performed a special 
90-second version of “Tribe” in front of 
“ America’s Got Talent” producers. Edwards 
found the final performance of tribe to be an 
appropriate closure to the routine. 
“It really was [good closure], ” Edwards 
told the Guardian. “It was really fun listening 
to those guys talking about how it was like 
getting the group back together after the 
national championships. They had a great 
performance for ‘ America’s Got Talent. ’ It’s 
just, for ‘ America’s Got Talent, ’ the talent 
is very high and dance acts are tough. We 
are a little different, who knows what will 
happen. We’ll see what happens, see if 
we get called back for the live shows or 
not. ”
Whether this was the last step in the 
team’s tribal journey or a stepping stone, 
UCSD Dancesport has had a lot to be 
proud of since it announced its plan 
to travel to Ohio last May. The 
team currently has no plans 
to compete at the 2016 Ohio 
Star Ball, so it may be several 
years until the team tops its recent 
achievement.
Additional reporting by Cedric Hyon.
Part of the Tribe
Working extra hours on their unique routine “Tribe, ” UCSD Dancesport brings home second place at the United 
States National Collegiate Championships for Dancesport. The UCSD Guardian talked to team captain Paula 
Anzenberg, Coach Peter Edwards and dancer Fernando Cortez to find out about the key to their success.by Naftali Burakovsky // Contributing Writer
photo by Patrick Lazo // UCSD GUARDIAN
by Matthew Zamudio  // Contributing writer
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE // UCSD GUARDIAN
Naft ali   Burak ov sky      8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 1, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
with screens today than ever 
before, a fact which foreseeably 
contributes to their inclination 
to see a movie rather than a play.  
A study conducted by Market 
Research Insight in 2014  showed  
that adults ages 21 or older are 
almost three times more likely 
to go to the movies rather than a 
bar or nightclub more than once 
a month; and it isn’t a stretch to 
presume that the average 21-year-
old is more likely go to a bar on 
a monthly basis than a theatre 
production. What’s more, the 
average age of the theatregoer is 44, 
with almost 80 percent of all tickets 
purchased largely by affluent whites,  
according to The Broadway League. 
For these reasons alone, it becomes 
easy to see why young people may 
be put off by the theatre sphere — 
they don’t seem to fit in.
But Castaneda is unconventional 
in every sense of the word when it 
comes to averages and stereotypes. 
His relative youth reflects fresh ideals and new perspectives, 
while his Mexican-American 
heritage makes him an important 
representative of minority groups 
within the showbusiness industry. 
Together these traits affect his 
artistic style in progressive ways, 
effectively provoking a new brand of 
theatre. The Texas native strives to 
make sure that each and every one of 
his productions are wrung to extract 
every drop of youth, relevance and 
vibrance from their plotlines. 
“‘Guards at the Taj’ is a great 
example of a piece of theatre that 
is youthful in creation and tone, ” 
Castaneda explained. “The language 
is contemporary and, although the 
play is set in India in 1648, the play 
tackles questions from today with 
humor and dark wit. ” 
The play, premiering Feb. 2 and 
running until Feb. 28, is a dark 
comedy and follows two hapless 
guards, Manu Narayan and Babak 
Tafti, as they protect the newly 
constructed Taj Mahal. While 
carrying out their responsibility of guarding the emblematic Taj 
Mahal, the men are swept up in an 
existential crisis that shakes their 
faith in God, revealing to them 
the beauty, carnage and injustice 
surrounding one of the most iconic 
edifices in the world. 
As director, Castaneda’s job is 
to arrange the various elements 
of the play — music, actors, props 
and more — in a way that allows 
him to tell a clear, compelling story. 
With the Playhouse’s accomplished 
staff, his duties are, in many ways, 
comparable to that of the conductor 
of an orchestra. The way in which 
he organizes his “talent” will either 
make or break the production. 
His careful attention to a story’s 
capacity to stir the audience seems to 
reveal that Castaneda is aware of the 
fact that every work of art, no matter 
the medium, can be boiled down to 
the effect it has on the observer. 
At the La Jolla Playhouse, 
students of UCSD’s theatre and 
dance program are invited to share 
their stories through whichever medium they choose; under the 
guidance of Castaneda and other 
members of the faculty, the rest of 
the Playhouse staff are instructed 
on how to do this to the best of 
their ability. Drawing on his formal 
education, and the lessons he 
learned as a student, the director 
has discovered a formula for 
inspiring greatness both on and off 
the stage.
“Stories are everywhere, ” 
Castaneda explained cryptically, 
offering some words of advice to 
aspiring artists. 
And, at places like UCSD, where 
people come from all over the globe 
to further their education, there is 
a natural concentration of stories 
within a rather small space. Thus, 
although many correctly envision 
our campus as a STEM mecca, it 
would do academia well to broaden 
its point of view to recognize the 
understated artistic community that 
thrives at UCSD. Looking for 
the Future, 
Teaching 
History
Professor William Propp attended 
Harvard University at the age of 17 
without a major but soon found a 
passion studying in New Eastern 
languages and civilizations.
When asked what sparked his 
interest in this particular area, 
Propp told the UCSD Guardian that 
he was introduced to the subject 
through music. 
“I was part of the men’s choir 
club at Harvard, and we were 
introduced to a Swedish professor 
of Hebrew, who introduced us to his 
research, ” Propp said. “I declared my 
major halfway through freshman 
year, especially fascinated with 
the structures of mummies at the 
museum he showed us. ” 
Propp has been at UCSD since 
1983 where he started to teach here 
before completing his Ph.D. Being 
a professor initially appealed to him 
because he realized it would enable 
him to explore his research at length. 
At one point, he gave lectures while 
working a double course load, just 
to be able to help doctoral students 
finish their degrees.  
“When I started off, my 
philosophy was ‘make students like 
you, and work very hard, ’” Propp 
told the Guardian. “Now, it’s ‘make 
new mistakes. ’ I think I get the 
stereotypical rewarding aspect of 
a teacher’s career when I see the 
lightbulb go off in a student’s eyes. 
I would spend ample amounts of 
time with my students to perfect 
their writing, and very few actually 
live up to my writing standards, but 
I especially enjoy teaching the ones 
who almost do. They eventually start 
writing prose that actually sounds 
good to them, because it actually is. ” 
However, he reminisces about 
his time in college and his first 
experiences choosing a major. 
“Students now find out what 
requirements are needed for their 
degree and go hunt for those courses 
online with a search engine, but in my 
time, we had to flip through an entire 
book to choose our major, so we 
could definitely explore more, ” Propp 
explained. “I don’t think students are 
necessarily less curious now, but they 
act in less curious ways. ”
Despite the common stigma 
associated with the “softer” 
and riskier choices of an arts or 
humanities major, Propp confidently 
asserts that the data contradicts the 
naysayers’ view of humanities majors’ 
jobless future. 
“My biggest challenge would be 
the STEM focus on campus, ” Propp 
said. “ And I don’t know which data 
to trust, but the data that we wave 
around says that our [humanities] 
graduates do just fine, if not better, in 
the job market. ”
According to the department 
website, history majors go into 
fields such as law, politics, business, 
education and even medicine. Propp 
argues taking courses in history 
allows students to gain a deeper sense 
of self as well as learning how to 
communicate more clearly. 
“These students would actually get 
to know their professors, especially 
while writing papers, and they 
therefore learn to write much better 
than their classmates in the sciences, ” 
Propp said. “There is a saying: A 
person who doesn’t know their 
history is an amnesiac, because they 
cannot know their identity. ”Susanti   Sarkar
s5sarkar@ucsd.eduBehind the  Lecturn
Castaneda’s Artistic Style Reflects His Youth and Heritage, Bringing Diversity to Theater
Ma tthew  Zamudio      ▶ PLAYHOUSE,  from page 6
SEE   MOre  on    INST Agram
@ucsdguardian
CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 1, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
 JOSHUA WHITE (((CODES)))
THE LOFT •  PC EAST •  BLACKHISTORYMONTH.UCSD.EDUFRIDAY 2.05 • 8pmTahrirCAMPUS
CALENDAR
FEB 01 - FEB 072016 POWERED BY THE CHANCELLOR’S OFFICE AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guardian
Calenda r
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdg uardian.orgWED 2.03 TUE 2.02
10am
UCSD STUDENT FOUNDATION: AWARENESS 
DAY- LIBRARY WALK
We're kicking off National Philanthropy Month with 
Awareness Day! Here's your chance to learn from 
UCSD Student Foundation about student philanthropy! 
We'll have photo ops and lots of cool prizes for 
anyone who comes out. Contact: kkho@ucsd.edu
11am
BODY COMPOSITION ANALYSIS - THE ZONE
Walk in for your free analysis which includes: body 
weight, percentage body fat, total body water, and 
blood pressure. One free assessment per quarter is 
available to registered UCSD students. For more 
information visit: 
http://studenthealth.ucsd.edu/bodycomposition.shtml
2:30pm
CAREER CHATS W/ CSC - THE ZONE
Chat with Roxanne Farkas, a CSC Advisor, about 
professional career objectives and goal setting so you 
can be more successful in obtaining your career 
goals.
3pm
DISCOVER THE LAW: FINANCIAL ISSUES FOR 
STUDENTS- ERC ROOM, PC WEST
Young adults, and students especially, face many new 
financial decisions that come with special rights and 
responsibilities. From banking regulations, auto loans, 
and consumer laws to cell phone contracts, the laws 
are nuanced and complex. Join us for an overview of 
these important areas of law! This workshop is part of 
the Student Legal Services "Discover the Law" series. 
Attend a total of four eligible workshops to receive 
your Certificate of Achievement! Visit the Student 
Legal Services website for more information.
8pm
ASCE PRESENTS: ROBERT DELONG- PRICE 
CENTER BALLROOM EAST
What, what? Robert DeLong is going to be here at 
UCSD?! If you missed him at Outside Lands or can't 
see him at this year's Coachella, catch him HERE at 
the first concert of the quarter for UCSD Undergrads 
with valid student ID - tickets available at the UCSD 
Box Office! Questions? Contact 
avpconcerts@ucsd.edu
FRI2.05
12pm
INTERNATIONAL FRIDAY CAFE - 
INTERNATIONAL CENTER PATIO
The Friday Cafe provides a venue where 
international and domestic students, scholars, 
faculty, staff and the local community can come 
together to celebrate cultural diversity and 
international education. Each week the Friday Cafe 
presents the opportunity to explore world cultures, 
cuisines, music and more. Join us for this unique 
international experience! Price: $5 per plate Contact: 
maiEguchi@mail.ucsd.edu (858) 822-5328
8pm
JOSHUA WHITE (((CODES)))- THE LOFT 
In honor of Black History Month, join us for Joshua 
Whiten and (((Codes))), presenting the works of 
Langston Hughes, Amiri Baraka, and other major 
African-American poets, as performed by an all-star 
band featuring: Joshua White (piano), Brandon 
Owens (bass), Marvin Smitty Smith (drums), Dwight 
Trible (vocals / spoken word), Josh Johnson (alto 
sax). Contact: mpstone@ucsd.edu, 510-619-672210am
FITNESS ZONE: HATHA FLOW YOGA- THE ZONE
A moderately paced yoga class that connects breath 
with movement in precise alignment to create 
greater awareness, strength and stability. Lead by 
FitLife instructor Jennie Olson Six.
3pm
R&R SQUAD - THE ZONE
Drop-in and get a low intensity back rub from the 
R&R Squad! Questions? Contact The Zone at 
zone@ucsd.edu
3:30pm
DISCOVER THE LAW: LAW SCHOOL 
ADMISSIONS- HORIZON ROOM, CAREER 
SERVICE CENTER
Admissions professionals from California Western 
School of Law will discuss how to prepare for and 
ultimately apply for entry to law school. Learn about 
the application experience, taking the LSAT, and the 
resources to help you pick schools and write your 
application essay. This workshop is part of the 
Student Legal Services "Discover the Law" series. 
Attend a total of four eligible workshops to receive 
your Certificate of Achievement! Visit the Student 
Legal Services website for more information. 
Contact: sls@ucsd.edu 858-534-4374
THU 2.04
7:30am
UC SAN DIEGO ECONOMICS ROUNDTABLE: 
EDWIN HUTCHINS- THE IDA AND CECIL 
GREEN FACULTY CLUB
Edwin Hutchins is an emeritus professor in 
Cognitive Science at UCSD. He has devoted his 
career to studying cognition in real-world settings. 
These settings range from land litigation in Papua 
New Guinea to traditional long-distance navigation 
in Micronesia, navigation on large navy ships, and, 
for the past 25 years, the cognitive human factors 
of flight deck operations in commercial airlines 
worldwide. He is known for developing the 
theoretical framework called  distributed 
cognition   and the associated  cognitive 
ethnography   methods. Professor Hutchins was 
awarded a John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur 
Foundation fellowship in 1985 and was named a 
fellow of the Cognitive Science Society in 2002. He 
is the author of Culture and Inference (1980, 
Harvard University Press) and Cognition in the Wild 
(1995, MIT Press).
10am
MEDITATION- THE ZONE
Join us for a guided meditation where you can: 
Gain greater mental clarity, Achieve a peaceful 
state of being, Learn techniques to de-stress, 
Achieve harmony amid cognitive dissonance.
1:30pm
THERAPY FLUFFIES - THE ZONE
Come de-stress and play with and pet therapy 
dogs at The Zone!
4pm
DISCOVER THE LAW: EMPLOYEE RIGHTS- 
ERC ROOM, PC WEST
An attorney will share basic information about 
rights that employees have. Curious if your boss 
can really do that? Join us and find out! This 
workshop is part of the Student Legal Services 
"Discover the Law" series. Attend a total of four 
eligible workshops to receive your Certificate of 
Achievement! Visit the Student Legal Services 
website for more information. Contact: 
sls@ucsd.edu 858-534-4374MON 2.01
BLACK HISTORY 
MONTH - VARIOUS 
LOCATIONS
blackhistorymonth.ucsd.edu/2016/
February marks the beginning of Black History 
Month, a federally recognized, nationwide 
celebration that provides the opportunity for all 
Americans to reflect on the significant roles that 
African-Americans have played in the shaping of 
U.S. history. UC San Diego will honor the history and 
accomplishments of African-Americans for the 
university's annual celebration of Black History 
Month. The theme for 2016 is Hallowed Grounds: 
Sites of African-American Memory. Contact: 
bwward@ucsd.edu
THE UJIMA NETWORK BLACK HISTORY MONTH 
SCHOLARSHIP - FINANCIAL AID OFFICE
The Ujima Network Black History Month Scholarship 
is available to currently enrolled full-time UCSD 
undergraduate students. Two $2,500 scholarships 
will be awarded! This a unique scholarship 
opportunity that recognizes academic and creative 
achievement in the study of African Americans, their 
history and culture, through either a research paper 
or publicly presented creative work or presentation. 
The application packet is due February 1, 2016. The 
Student Application and Faculty Nomination Form is 
available at 
http://faoforms.ucsd.edu/forms/UJIMA.pdf Contact: 
scholarships@ucsd.edu
11am
ART & SOUL: HOT COCOA IN A MASON
JAR - THE ZONE
Workshops are free; all supplies and materials 
provided. Space is limited and is first come, first 
served.
11am
DON'T WORRY, BE HAPPY- RED SHOE RM, 
PRICE CENTER WEST, LVL 2
Part of iLead Program (Must be a registered 
participant to attend): "It is easy for college students 
to become overwhelmed by worry and stress. This 
workshop is designed to inform students on ways to 
manage and reduce stress while promoting 
positivity." Presented by Haley Asturias, Peer 
Educator, CSI Communication and Leadership 
Contact: mhg005@ucsd.edu
2pm
HUNGRY FOR HEALTHY: VEGETABLE SPRING 
ROLLS W/ PEANUT SAUCE- THE ZONE
Come join us as we make Vegetable Spring Rolls w/ 
Peanut Sauce, hosted by the Student Health 
Advocates and get FREE samples! Materials and 
ingredients are provided. Space is limited, first 
come, first served.
5pm
AA CAMPUS MEETING- THE ZONE
Open AA Meeting held at the Zone every Monday 
from 5:00 PM- 6:00 PM. Questions? Contact the 
Zone at zone@ucsd.edu
6:30pm
STUDENT HEALTH ADVOCATES MIXER- 
BALLROOM A, PC WEST
We're recruiting new members in Winter Quarter 
2016! Drop by our SHA Mixer for as little or as long 
as you like! At our Mixer you will get an in-depth 
look into our program, meet our current SHAs, and 
get all your questions answered. We look forward to 
meeting you! Attendance at the SHA MIxer is 
encouraged but not mandatory for applying to the 
SHA Program. Contact: shacoordinator@gmail.com
10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 1, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDS$
Gua rdian Classifieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedscrossword
Across
 1 Pizza piece
 6 Interim office worker
 10 Beehive State
 14 Auxiliary device
 16 Slangy negative
 17 Set to a starting value
 18 __ up (energizes)
 19 Twangy sounds
 20 Schools
 22 E-mail periods
 24 Maiden turned into a spider
 25 Give up, as rights
 29 John Hancocked
 30 Asian weights
 31 Dada artist Max
 33 Backtalk
 35 Table scraps
 36 Diplomatic agent
 37 Adult nits
 38 Common gull
 39 Shaped like Humpty Dumpty
 40 Reaffirm, as marriage vows
 41 Games authority
 43 Naked state
 45 Deerlike
 47 Flabby
 48 Shares of morally dubious payments
 50 Stared fixedly
 54 Mine entrance
 55 Enthusiastic admirer
 57 Air out
 58 Hearing visually?
 59 Advantage
 60 For fear that
 61 Indian units of weightDown
 1 Create yarn
 2 Singer Horne
 3 Author Murdoch
 4 Strongholds
 5 Afterwords
 6 __ Aviv-Jaffa
 7 Toledo’s lake
 8 Miata maker
 9 Inflammation of the chest cavity
 10 Empty cases
 11 Behave
 12 Supplementary materials
 13 “Siddhartha” author
 15 “__ la vista, baby!”
 21 Slanted position
 23 Secretarial talent, in brief
 25 Minute particle
 26 With scalp exposed
 27 Cocktail party activity
 28 Former NC senator
 32 Knotty situation
 34 Sunday seats
 36 Twilight, to Tennyson
 37 Slowing, in music
 39 Medley
 40 Cause to become buoyant again
 42 Actress Mimieux
 44 Motherless calf
 45 Hunger for
 46 White of “Dreamgirls”
 49 Mini drinks
 51 Fence piece
 52 Actress Best
 53 Tails persistently
 56 TV screenBIKES
Beach Bike - $45. Brown beach bike. Runs 
nicely. In excellent condition. Listing ID: 
230504244 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Small Mountain Bike - $150. Needs air and 
a new chain. Listing ID: 230210509 at ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
Road Bike - $150. Runs smooth and in good 
condition. Listing ID: 230210507 at ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tionELECTRONICS
Nook HD 8GB - $30. Nook HD (Smoke 
color). Currently has Google Play Store. 
Purchased my son an iPad, selling this tab -
let. Yes, he drew on the back, and the back 
is stained from a black and grey case. Must 
charge often. Letting you know in advance! 
Runs Hayday and Tapped Out pretty well. 
Recommended for kids. Good for anyone, it 
is just an older tablet. Listing ID: 230504300 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Electronic Luggage Locator - $7. Taken out 
of the package but never used. Battery 
may need replacing. Listing ID: 230504299 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Game Boy Advance with Pokemon Leaf 
Green and Fire Red - $15. I’m selling my 
Game Boy Advance with a Pokemon Leaf 
game and Pokemon Fire. Still works. Listing 
ID: 230504297 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
FURNITURE
Outdoor Table - $225. Marble finished. 
Removable tiles on table. Rotating chairs. 
Listing ID: 230504314 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more informationBrown Leather Couch - $500. Brown leather 
couch with queen size pull out bed. In 
wonderful condition. Very little usage. The 
mattress has been used a handful of times. 
It’s only about two years old. Listing ID: 
230504311 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Queen Bed with Mattress and Box Spring 
- $100. This is a real wood bed frame, not 
IKEA furniture. It has some scratches on 
the footboard but nothing a little sanding 
wouldn’t fix. Listing ID: 230504304 at ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
www.ucsdguardian.org/advertisingMARKETING JOB
La Jolla Dental Group 
looking for two outgoing 
students to help with their 
marketing, preferably one male 
and one female.
If interested, contact Maria 
at 858-455-9614 or office@
lajolladentalgroup.com for more 
information.
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
SHOP TRITON OUTFITTERS
to.ucsd.edu
Deadline  to app ly: Feb 28
 APPLY AT bit.ly/1mBhHp0
Contact hweddle@u csd.edu for additional inquirie sBecome  the next
UC STUDENT
REGENT
DO YOU TWEET? YAY SO DO WE!
@UCSDGua rdianSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 1, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
The Triton women earned two 
solid road victories against two 
California Collegiate Athletic 
Association opponents, Humboldt 
State and Cal Poly Pomona. First 
on Thursday night, the UCSD 
basketball team defeated Humboldt 
State 76–51. Humboldt State 
dropped to an 8–11 record on the 
season with a 5–7 record in CCAA 
play. Then, on Saturday, UCSD 
defeated the Cal Poly Pomona 
Broncos, 64–50 at Kellogg Arena. 
The Tritons are now 17–3 overall 
and 12–2 in CCAA play. UCSD 
is currently ranked second in 
the conference behind Cal State 
Dominguez Hills, which has not 
lost a game against any conference 
opponent this season, making its 
CCAA record perfect at 13–0. 
UCSD vs. Humboldt State
UCSD disposed of the Humboldt 
State Lumberjacks 76–51 on 
Thursday night.
Senior guard Jamie Katuna 
scored a game-high 28 points with 
a 66.6 percent shooting percentage 
from the field for the Tritons. 
Katuna also went a perfect 5–5 
behind the free-throw line.
Senior forward Farrah Shokoor 
almost had another double-double, 
adding 18 points and nine rebounds. 
Senior forwards A ’jaee Foster 
and Amanda Kunst combined to 
score 27 of Humboldt State’s points.
UCSD came out strong, scoring 
the first five points of the game. The 
Tritons controlled the game for the entire first period, as they entered 
the second period leading the 
Lumberjacks 21–10.
“Our defense set the tone from 
the beginning, ” UCSD Head Coach 
Heidi VanDerveer told UCSD 
Athletics. “We were able to dictate 
the tempo of the game. ” 
The Lumberjacks came out 
strong in the second period, cutting 
the deficit to only three-point in 
favor of the Tritons making the 
score 23–20. But UCSD never took 
its foot off the gas as it kept the lead 
going into halftime 36–29. 
Humboldt State reduced the 
Tritons’ lead to three points again 
at the start of the third period. The 
Tritons answered back, scoring seven-
unanswered points, making the score 
49–39 with 1:49 left the in period. 
The Tritons dominated the 
entire fourth period outscoring the 
Lumberjacks 27–11, resulting in a 
final score of 76–51. 
The Tritons continued their road 
trip and headed to Cal Poly Pomona 
for another CCAA matchup. 
UCSD vs. Cal Poly Pomona
The UCSD Tritons defeated 
the Cal Poly Pomona Broncos, 
64–50, in another CCAA matchup 
Saturday night at Kellogg Arena.
It was an exciting first half as 
the Broncos kept the score close, 
taking the lead and tying the game 
up a couple of times. But it was a 
whole team effort from the Tritons 
that eventually earned them a “W” 
on Saturday night, as eight different 
players scored.
Junior guard Beth Mounier led 
the Tritons with a game-high 18 points, with four three-pointers 
during the night. Katuna had 14 
points with three three-pointers 
while sophomore guard Taylor 
Tanita had a game-best seven 
assists. Shokoor collected her 11th 
double-double of the season with 12 
points and 14 rebounds.
The Broncos very own senior 
Mary Williams and sophomore 
Priscilla Brooks combined to score 
26 points for Cal Poly Pomona. 
UCSD jumped out in front to 
begin the game with a layup from 
junior guard Haley Anderson. 
The Tritons hit four shots from 
behind the arc in the first period, 
from freshman guard Joleen Yang, 
Mounier, Katuna and Shokoor. Cal 
Poly Pomona held a steady pace 
throughout the first period, keeping 
up with the lively Triton offense, 
only being down by three going 
into the second period, making the 
score 18–15. Cal Poly tied the game 
up, 21–21, with 5:08 left in the 
second period, before the Tritons 
grabbed the lead once again thanks 
to a Shokoor free-throw and a 
Mounier three-pointer. UCSD led 
the Broncos 29–25 going into the 
third period.
The Tritons kept the lead for 
the entire third period, making the 
score 45–40 going into the final 
frame of the game. UCSD outscored 
the Broncos 19–10 in the final 10 
minutes of the game, securing their 
17th win of the season, with a final 
score of 64–50 in the Tritons’ favor.
“I’m very excited about our 
team’s win, ” VanDerveer told the 
UCSD Athletics Department. “Pomona tried to slow down the 
game and take advantage of their 
strength. They have a dominant 
low-post game and we did a great 
job of keeping our poise. ”
UCSD will continue its CCAA play next Saturday, Feb. 6, as it 
travels to Cal State San Bernardino. 
Tip-off is set for 5:30 p.m. W. BASKETBALL
Tritons Handle Business on the Road, Improve to 17–3 Overall
Lumberjacks and Broncos fall to 8–11 and 7–13 respectively while Tritons stay ranked second behind undefeated Cal State Dominguez Hills.
BY   sa m a n t h a   g l a n t z
staff writer             
readers can contact
samantha glantz    sglantz@ucsd.edu PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE /UCSD GUARDIANSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
MARCUS  THUILLIER
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , FEBRUARY 1, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
week  in
summar y
WOMEN'S
BASKETBALL
MEN'S
BASKETBALLUCSD
UCSDUCSD
UCSDHumboldt State
Cal Poly Pomona
Cal Poly PomonaAfter two blowout victories for the No. 12 UCSD 
men’s basketball team, the Tritons found themselves 
up against more formidable defenses in their most 
recent matches. In rematches against Humboldt State 
and the No. 13 Cal Poly Pomona, the Tritons fought 
tooth and nail for two more well-deserved victories. 
The Tritons are now a stellar 17–3 overall and 12–2 in 
the California Collegiate Athletic Association.
Game One
The Tritons came back down to earth a little in 
their game against Humboldt State. For the first half 
of Thursday night’s game, UCSD could not pull away 
from the Lumberjacks in a back-and-forth first half. 
Compared to some stellar offensive performances in 
recent games, the Tritons’ 11–31 shooting to start the 
game was disappointing for the team, resulting in 
only 29 points in the first half. A major contributor to 
their poor shooting percentage was their inability to 
shoot from three-point land, hitting only two out of 
their 11 shots from beyond the arc.
With the Triton’s usual point leaders unable to 
get their shot falling, freshman center Chris Hansen 
stepped it up to help keep UCSD in the game, scoring 
six points and grabbing five rebounds. 
While the Lumberjacks outshot and outrebounded 
the Tritons in the half, they could only muster one 
more point than UCSD, leading 30–29 heading into 
the second half. Neither team held a lead for very 
long, with seven tied scores and 11 total lead changes.
But after some halftime adjustments, the Tritons 
found their groove and began playing like the team 
we’ve seen all season. Senior forward Drew Dyer shot 
a stellar 5–8 overall and 3–6 from the three-point line 
for 13 points to help propel the Tritons to a much 
more impressive 44 points in the second half. Junior 
guard Aleks Lipovic matched Dyer’s second half 
point total with two three-pointers and some help 
from the charity stripe.
Even with the Tritons’ increased offensive output, 
the game’s competitive nature continued, as the 
teams kept on trading the lead. This all changed 
at the 4:23 mark, as the Tritons fought back from 
a four-point deficit and finally took the lead for 
good with a Dyer three-pointer. The Tritons would 
then go on to lead by as many as eight, until finally 
closing out Humboldt State with a 73–69 win on the 
Lumberjacks’ home turf.
With the win, UCSD climbed to 16–3 overall and 
11–2 in conference, while Humboldt State fell to 13–5 
overall and just 7–5 in conference.
Game Two
While their game against the Lumberjacks was 
a little rough, the Triton’s Saturday night showdown 
with Cal Poly Pomona was flat-out ugly. Continuing 
their struggle shooting from the three-point line, 
the Tritons could not get any form of offense going in the first half against the Bronco defense, 
finishing with just 18 points. Luckily for the Tritons, 
their defense wasn’t too shabby, holding the Broncos 
to just 11 first half points.
The Tritons’ offensive struggles began with their 
abysmal three-point shooting; in a season where 
they’ve averaged close to .400 from three, shooting 
1–11 from beyond the arc to start the game quickly 
put their offense in a funk. 
Defense would remain king in the second half, as 
the Triton defense had its way for a large chunk of the 
period. Even though the Triton shooting percentage 
didn’t fare much better, the team led by as many as 
18 points. Although the Broncos would pull within 
three points to make the game interesting, the Tritons 
ultimately did just enough to come out on top 41–35.
Despite the scoring output, the team proved it can 
win in yet another fashion: a tough, defensive battle. 
The grind-it-out victory didn’t come against just any 
opponent, either; the Broncos are ranked No. 13, just 
below the Tritons in the national poll. While their offense coughed up the ball a whopping 21 times, 
the Triton defense forced a stellar 19 turnovers over 
the course of the game, stopping the Broncos from 
forming any sort of rhythm on offense.
“Ugly wins are still wins, ” UCSD Head Coach 
Eric Olen told the Athletics Department. “I’m really 
proud of the way our guys continued to compete 
despite struggling offensively. This was one of our 
best defensive efforts this season. ”
Junior guard Adam Klie was the one of the few 
bright spots on offense, scoring 12 points on 5–11 
shooting and grabbing 10 boards for his third double-
double of the season. Hansen showed up once again 
with 11 points and five rebounds as he and Klie 
combined for more than half of the Triton’s points.
After being swept by the Tritons, the Broncos are 
now 16–4 overall and 9–4 in conference.
Next up, the Tritons travel once again to face off 
against Cal State San Bernardino on Feb. 6. 76 - 51
73 - 6964 - 50
41 - 35
MEN'S
TENNIS
WOMEN'S
TENNIS8 - 1
9 - 0Concordia
ConcordiaUCSD
UCSDHumboldt StateTopping the CCAA Table
Tritons squeak by No. 13 Cal Poly Pomona for huge road win.
Written by Alex Wu  //  Staff Writer
Photo by Megan Lee // Associate Photo Editor  
TENNIS
Tennis Teams No Match For Concordia
UCSD rebounds after losing first two matches, look forward to Point Loma next.
Both of UCSD’s tennis teams 
were in action on Saturday at the 
Northview Courts. The No. 18 
women’s team beat Concordia 9–0, 
while the No. 21 Triton men handed 
the same opponent an 8–1 defeat. 
The two teams now stand at 1–2 after 
two previous defeats to Division-I 
opponents earlier in the season.
The UCSD women’s tennis team 
dominated Concordia to the tune 
of straight set wins in all of the 
singles contests. No. 28 senior Kyra 
Scott defeated her opponent 6–0, 
6–3 at the No. 1 singles spot while 
sophomore Britta Mosser put up 
an absolute clinic at the No. 3 spot, 
not losing a single game, 6–0, 6–0. 
Sophomore Jasmine Hosseini also 
got a point, defeating senior Andrea 
Madrigal of CUI by a comfortable 6–1, 6–4. At the fourth, fifth and 
sixth spots, three freshmen got 
their first ever collegiate wins; 
Alexandra Weil won 6–2, 6–3 at 
the fourth spot, Ashley Chao got 
a 6–3, 6–1 victory at the fifth spot 
and Madison Hale concluded the 
brilliant showing with a 6–3, 6–4 
win at the sixth spot.
“It felt excellent, ” Scott told the 
UCSD Athletics Department. “We 
had a good week-long practice. I 
feel even better than last year. ”
Earlier in the day, UCSD had 
already clinched a decisive 3–0 lead 
after winning their three double 
matches. The No. 16 team of Mosser 
and Scott dominated the opposition 
at the No. 1 spot, earning an 8–2 
win. Chao and junior Shannon 
Theisen played at No. 2 and got 
a 8–6 win while Hale and Weil 
teamed up for an 8–3 victory at the 
No. 3 spot.
“I think we should definitely reach top 10 in the nation [in 
doubles] and become All-American 
players, ” Scott told the UCSD 
Athletics Department. “I think we 
can beat a lot of teams that we fell 
to last year because we really feel 
comfortable together now. ”
The men’s team put up an 
equally dominant show, en route to 
a 8–1 win over Concordia. UCSD 
won all three double matches and 
lost only one of its singles at the No. 
2 spot. Sophomore Eric Tseng took 
his opponent to a third-set super 
tiebreaker, but could not pull out 
the win, eventually falling 4–6, 6–3, 
10–8. No. 15 senior Axel Bouillin 
got the win at the No. 1 spot, 
winning by set scores of 6–3 and 
7–6. All other singles wins, from 
sophomore Justin Zhang, senior 
Horea Porutiu, junior Alexandre 
Miaule and freshman Richard Han, 
came in straight sets.
Bouillin and Tseng teamed up to get the win at the No. 1 doubles 
spot. Miaule and Porutiu won 8–5 
at the No. 2 spot; Han and Zhang 
defeated their opponents, freshmen 
Man Hon Ko and Santiago Sanchez, 
8–5 at the No. 3 spot.
The men’s team hosts No. 26 Point Loma on Feb. 3 at 2 p.m. 
while the women’s team returns to 
the court on Feb. 4 across town at 
No. 33 Point Loma.BY  m a r c u s  t h u i l l i e r
marcus thuillier   readers can contact
Alex Wu    adw006@ucsd.edu 
PHOTO BY DUYEN NGUYEN /UCSD GUARDIANSoftball
M. Tennis
W. Tennis
Softball
Softball     2/1
     2/3
     2/4
     2/5
     2/5AT Azusa Pacific
VS Point Loma
AT Point Loma
VS Metro State 
VS Western OregonUPCOMING
UCSD
GAMES