VOLUME 49, ISSUE 54   THURSDA Y , MA Y 12, 2016  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
SAN DIEGO 
AFTER HOURS 
WE ALL KNOW THAT LA JOLLA 
SIMPLY CLOSES AT SIX. TIRED 
OF STAYING IN, THE GUARDIAN 
WENT OUT TO FIND ACTIVITIES 
AND PLACES AROUND SAN 
DIEGO THAT CLOSE AT THE 
MORE REASONABLE COLLEGE 
STUDENT HOUR.  
GREEK LIFE  RESTRICTION
WOMEN'S W A TER POLOEXCLUSIONAR Y PROCESSES
  move  on  to  ChampionshipsOPINION, P AGE 4
sports,  P age  11
THURSDAY
H 70 L 56FRIDAY
H 69 L 56
SATURDAY
H 67 L 56SUNDAY
H 68 L 56
FORECAST
VERBATIM
AS LONG  AS THOSE  PARTAKING IN 
CAMPUS  CHALKINGS  RELY SOLELY  
ON XENOPHOBI A AND RACISM 
TO MAKE THEIR  STATEMENTS , 
AS LONG  AS THEY REFR AIN 
FROM  PUTTING  FORTH  POLITIC AL 
REASONS  FOR ENDORSEMENT  
AND AS LONG  AS THEY REMAIN 
ANONYMOUS , SUCH  STATEMENTS  
FAIL TO EXHIBIT  FREE SPEECH  
AND INSTE AD TARNISH  IT.”
— GUARDIAN  EDITORIAL  
BOARD
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
EL NINO  .......................... 2
CHALKING  ...................... 4
“A MOON SHAPED POOL”  9
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU  ..10
BASEBALL SPLIT SERIES..12WEEKEND,  P AGE  6
PHOTO BY NAME HERE / GUARDIAN
California Gov. Jerry Brown 
signed a series of bills, including 
Senate Bill X2-7, into law which 
will raise California’s smoking age 
from 18 to 21 last Wednesday. The 
reforms, which take effect in early 
June, will also include restrictions 
on electronic cigarettes with 
respect to licensing sales and their 
use in public places as well as an 
expansion of no-smoking areas at 
public schools.
A stipulation in the bill exempts 
military personnel age 18 and over 
from the new restrictions. 
Other legislation signed 
by the governor categorizes 
electronic cigarettes as tobacco 
products, which cannot be used in 
restaurants, theaters, bars or other areas where smoking has been 
previously banned.
California state Senator Ed 
Hernandez (D-San Gabriel Valley), 
who authored the bill, said that the new 
laws are a “victory” for this generation 
and for generations to come. 
“[These laws] will save countless 
lives, reduce astronomical costs to 
the health care system, and cost 
very little because it uses existing 
enforcement mechanisms,” 
Hernandez told CNN. 
The tobacco industry threatened 
to seek a referendum vote to overturn 
the bills increasing the smoking age 
and restricting e-cigarettes. The 
Smoke-Free Alternatives Trade 
Association said in a statement that 
it would educate voters about the 
industry and differences between 
vaporizers and cigarettes.
“California took a step backwards today by reclassifying 
vapor products as tobacco,” the 
group said. “Stigmatizing vapor 
products, which contain no tobacco, 
and treating them the same as 
combustible tobacco while actively 
seeking to economically penalize 
smokers attempting to switch is 
counterproductive to public health. ”
When the bill was introduced, 
Altria tobacco company spokesman 
David Sutton said that the industry 
preferred the issue be handled by 
U.S. Food and Drug Administration.
“We believe states and localities 
should defer to this regulatory 
process and give the FDA, the 
[Institute of Medicine] and others 
the time to review the science and 
evidence, before enacting different 
minimum age laws,” Sutton said University 
to Penalize 
Single-Sex 
Social GroupsHARVARD
Members of fraternities, 
sororities and finals clubs at 
Harvard will not be able to 
hold leadership positions.
BY   l a u r e n   h o l t
Starting with next fall’s incoming 
freshman class, any undergraduate 
members of Harvard University’s 
single-sex social organizations 
“unrecognized” by the school will 
be barred from holding student 
and athletic leadership positions 
or receiving recommendations 
for certain scholarships. All 
fraternities, sororities and final 
clubs, which are considered to 
be exclusive social clubs, because 
they are mostly single-sex, will be 
included in the ban. 
Harvard President Drew Faust 
sent an email to the undergraduate 
student body explaining the changes 
last Friday. Faust established the 
policies based on recommendations 
from the Dean of the College 
Rakesh Khurana, who framed the 
ban as an effort to eliminate gender 
discrimination and inequality 
among students. Khurana wrote 
about the chauvinistic nature of 
final clubs that exclude women, 
saying that the practices of single-
sex organizations are contradictory 
to Harvard’s values.
“ T he  d is c r i m i n ator y 
membership policies of these 
organizations have led to the 
perpetuation of spaces that are rife 
with power imbalances; the most 
entrenched of these spaces send 
an unambiguous message that 
they are the exclusive preserves 
of men,” Khurana wrote. “In 
their recruitment practices and 
through their extensive resources 
and access to networks of power, 
these organizations propagate 
exclusionary values that undermine 
those of the larger Harvard College 
community. ”
According to Khurana, this ban 
is only part of Harvard’s “long and 
complex history of grappling with 
gender discrimination. ” In the 1970s, 
Harvard officials spoke out against 
the practices of undergraduate all-
male final clubs, viewing them as 
acts of gender discrimination and 
not conducive to the university’s 
intellectual and social climate. A 
little over a decade later, in 1984, 
Harvard’s administration no longer 
recognized final clubs when the 
exclusive groups decided to remain 
single-sex. This change in university 
status classified all single-sex 
social organizations, including 
fraternities and sororities, as being 
“unrecognized.”Communication Department 
Displays Exhibit on Racism
The UCSD communication department opened its 
“Tell us howUCit” exhibition on Tuesday, which 
aims to serve as a forum for discussion about 
institutional racism. Organizers of the installation, 
which is located southwest of Geisel Library, encourage 
the campus community to post written messages as a 
way to join the larger conversation about racism 
on campus.
According to UCSD assistant professor of 
communication Fernando Dominguez Rubio, the 
exhibition was organized by students and faculty from 
the communication department with the intent of 
creating a space for the UCSD community to openly 
discuss discrimination.
“[Tell us howUCit] is a response initiated by the  
communication department [between] graduate 
students, undergraduates and faculty,” Dominguez 
Rubio told the UCSD Guardian. “We wanted to bring 
the [racial] discussion out into the open so people can 
share their experiences of racism at UCSD. ”Event organizer and Sixth College senior Nick Lopez 
emphasized that the event was not a direct response to 
recent chalking incidents, but rather to passive forms of 
racism that occur on a daily basis. 
“This isn’t about the chalking, ” Lopez told the 
Guardian. “This is about the institutional and structural 
racism that persists in our everyday lives that goes 
unnoticed and unchallenged. ”
The event featured ropes tied along the trees 
southwest of the Geisel Library entrance. Attached to 
the ropes were papers with messages written by students 
and faculty describing instances and thoughts relating 
to racial intolerance.
Event organizer and Muir College junior Hamoun 
Dolatshahi described the exhibit as a means of 
combatting policies rooted in structural injustice.
“We are hoping that this event will encourage people 
to call for a change in policies that are holding others 
down, ” Dolatshahi said. “In order to create a more equal 
and unified society, we need to help those who have B y  kevin  santos      CAMPUS
Governor Signs Bill to Raise Legal Smoking Age
The new state law changes California’s smoking age from 18 to 21 and restricts e-cigarette sales.See EXHIBIT , page 3
CALIFORNIA
By  l i sa  c h i k
See HARVARD , page 3 See SMOKING , page 3Photo by Emily Tipton / UCSD GuardianILLUSTRATION BY ALEX LEE / GUARDIANUCSDGUARDIAN.ORGSee MoreAn interdisciplinary group of 
climate researchers at the Scripps 
Institution of Oceanography was 
funded by the National Science 
Foundation to document and 
analyze the 2015–2016 El Nino 
season. According to the data 
gathered by scientists at SIO, heavy 
rainfall did not fall in Southern 
California as expected; they 
observed other extreme phenomena 
associated with El Nino.
Mark Ohman, a biological 
oceanographer and professor 
at SIO, described the project as 
encompassing multiple areas of 
scientific specialty and outlined 
the various methods involved in 
investigating the impact of El Nino.
“This particular research team 
is an interdisciplinary group of 
biological, chemical and physical 
oceanographers that collaborates 
with climate scientists to understand 
climate influences on the ocean 
ecosystem off the California coast, ” 
Ohman told the UCSD Guardian 
in an email. “We use a variety of 
experimental studies at sea [as well 
as] autonomous observations using 
ocean gliders, moorings and satellite remote sensing, shipboard surveys 
and ocean numerical models, in 
order to understand ecological 
responses to climate forcing. ”
The El Nino event is part of the 
El Nino-Southern Oscillation cycle, 
which is a natural event in which 
the temperature of the Pacific Ocean 
and its surrounding atmosphere 
fluctuate between hot and cold 
due to changes in equatorial trade 
winds. El Nino is a warm water 
anomaly caused by the weakening 
of the trade winds that form in the 
equatorial Pacific and propagates 
to higher latitudes via oceanic 
surface currents. The heat released 
via convection is thought to drive 
surface winds causing frequent 
storms and heavy rainfall across 
Southern California.
Director of the Center for 
Western Water and Weather 
Extremes at Scripps Marty Ralph 
stated although the signs pointed 
toward an extreme El Nino, rainfall 
did not reach expected levels or 
expected locations. 
“It was clear that while El Nino 
had stacked the deck for a wet 
Southern California, it was still 
possible to draw the wrong card and 
that’s what happened in Southern 
California, ” Marty Ralph said in a press release.
Laura Engeman, manager of 
the San Diego Regional Climate 
Collaborative, added that even 
though total rainfall was less than 
anticipated, the effects were still 
detrimental.
“This year’s El Nino brought 
less overall rainfall than expected; 
however, it did bring very intense 
rains over very short periods of 
time and at abnormal times of the 
year, ” Laura Engeman in a press 
release said. “These rains led to 
severe flash floods in several cities 
across the region, exemplifying how 
these climatic shifts can impact our 
businesses and communities, and 
why it is important that we plan 
now to make us more resilient to the 
impacts of these climatic extremes. ”
Scripps coastal oceanographer 
and assistant professor Sara 
Giddings maintains that El Nino’s 
effects, notwithstanding the lack of 
rain, are evident.
“There’s a public perception that 
El Nino never came, but it certainly 
did from an ocean perspective,” 
Giddings said in a press release. 
“Storm activity — waves and total 
water levels — was unusually strong, 
enough to increase the infill rates of 
estuaries and move not just sand but also cobblestones. ”
According to a manuscript 
submitted to the Geophysical 
Research Letters, the 2015–16 El 
Nino caused abnormally high sea 
surface temperatures, the highest 
since 1982–83 and 1997–98 El Nino 
events. SIO physical oceanographer 
Dean Roemmich says that it’s 
important to distinguish larger-
scale El Ninos because they may 
result in different effects.
“El Nino is not a linear 
phenomenon, meaning that the 
impacts of El Nino may be different 
for strong versus weak episodes, ” 
Roemmich told the Guardian.
In addition to causing extreme 
weather, the warmer surface 
waters also prevent the upwelling 
of nutrient-rich water from the 
deep sea, restricting the growth 
of single-celled photosynthetic 
phytoplankton and thus decreasing 
food availability for organisms 
higher up in the food chain.
El Nino is typically followed by 
La Nina, a period of colder oceanic 
temperatures created when the 
equatorial trade winds pick up again 
and allow for the upwelling of cold 
seawater from the deep sea.BY  m i n g - r a y  l i a o2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 12, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
TRUIMPHANT #7 By Alex Liang
DO YOU TWEET? WE DO!
@UCSDGua rdian
REGISTER ONLINE  AT
AS.UCS D.EDU/ SAFERID ESREGISTRATION
FOR this quarter
IS NOW OPEN!
A.S. Safe Rides all ows 
registe red unde rgraduate 
students to get 3 FREE rid es 
per quarter. 
Students must r egister at 
least 2 4 hours prior t o their 
first ri de. Contact A.s. safe rides: (619) 564 - 799 8The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. “The Popeye ride is foul and the people are 
fouler. The water made me gag. You know the E.T. ride? That 
scent is the sh*t. I heard they manufacture it somewhere in a 
lab.” — Josh & Aleya talking about Florida.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Marketing Co-Directors
Peter McInnis, Haley Asturias
Training and Development Manager
Cedric Hyon
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Vincent Pham
Tina Butoiu
Jacky To
Josh Lefler
Quinn Pieper
Marcus Thuillier
Dev Jain
Allison Kubo
Oliver Kelton
Karly Nisson
Sam Velaquez
Brittney Lu
Olga Golubkova
Megan Lee
Christian Duarte
Joselynn Ordaz
Kenji Bennett
Ayat Amin
Christina Carlson
Sophia Huang
Jennifer Grundman
Sage Schubert ChristianEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
News Editor
 
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Co-Editor
Features Editor
Associate Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Multimedia Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editors
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Vanessa Wong
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim, Alicia Ho, Lisa Chik
Editorial Assistants
Naftali Burakovsky, Nathaniel Walker, Lisa Chik,
Maria Sebas
ming-ra y liao   UCSD Researchers Measure Effects of  This Year’s El Nino Storm
Results show that although the 2015-2016 El Nino event was the strongest since 1997, rainfall in California was less than expected.SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
International Documentary Film Series  
May 16, 7pm Landmark Hillcrest Cinemas  Benefitting the International Rescue Committee in San Diego  
Students: $10 General: $15  
This film represents the views of the filmmaker and does not represent formal positions of the International Rescue Committee . An intimate portrait of Syrian refugee children forced to flee from the 
violence of civil war to neighboring Lebanon, as told in their own words. Guest Speaker: Sarah Smith, Senior Director of Education for the International Rescue Committee.  
Purchase tickets at Rescue.org/Films or at the door  
NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 12, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
LET BLUEPRINT DRAMATICALLY 
INCREASE YOUR LSAT SCORE.
888-4-BP-PREP
blueprintlsat.com
Summer courses to prep for the 
September LSAT begin  June 26 . Use 
promo code SAVE100 to get $100 off 
the San Diego classroom course! 
been structurally held back. ”
Eleanor Roosevelt College 
and event organizer junior Joel 
Goldsmith stated that there is a 
possibility that the coalition will use 
postings shared during the event as 
a list of formal requests to send to 
the administration.
“ A lot of the writings are changes that students want to see, and one 
of the ideas is that we will aggregate 
them into a list of demands and 
forward them to the university,” 
Goldsmith elaborated.
Professors and TAs were invited 
to use the event as a learning 
opportunity for their students.
Sixth College freshman Jeremy 
Borja applauded the event and 
recognized it as a safe space for people to speak against recent 
cultural hostilities.
“I think it’s a good place for 
people to say what they’re feeling 
about racism and how it’s present, ” 
Borja said. “Especially within the 
last quarter, since there have been a 
lot of racist acts on campus, it’s good 
for people to have a place [to voice 
their concerns]. ”
Dominguez Rubio added that the display will be up indefinitely; there 
are currently no plans to take down 
the installation. 
“We are going to keep [the 
exhibition] up for the next few days, 
and the plan is to just keep it up, ” 
Dominguez Rubio said. “When it 
goes away, it goes away. ”Art Exhibit Messages Will Be Compiled into a List of  Demands for University Administration
Kevin  Santos   
National Greek Organizations Criticized Harvard’s Condemnation of  Exclusive Social Groups
Harvard’s decision has received 
widespread backlash from national 
fraternities and sororities which 
claim that, in trying to create a more 
equitable environment with the 
ban, the administration is unfairly 
punishing members of single-sex 
organizations. 
On May 8, Harvard’s student-run 
newspaper, the Harvard Crimson, 
reported that female undergraduate 
students from sororities and all-
female final clubs were using 
Facebook to express their outrage over the decision. Several students 
who posted online felt that new 
policy disregards the importance 
of all-female groups and that they 
were surprised to find it fails to 
make a distinction between their 
organizations and all-male ones. 
UCSD Interfraternity Council 
President Sam Shapiro disapproves 
of Harvard’s decision and explained 
that it is important for students to 
be able to participate in whatever 
activities they like.
“ As a fraternity member here 
and seeing what fraternities can 
do for people, obviously I am not happy about Harvard’s choice, and 
I would say most people here are 
not happy with Harvard’s choice, 
but as a private school, it is a lot 
different for [students because the 
administration has] a lot of choice 
as to what they can limit their 
students to do, ” Shapiro told the 
UCSD Guardian. “We do not like to 
see that obviously because we like 
people to have the choice to join 
whatever organization they want 
to join, whether it is a single sex 
organization or whatever type of 
organization they are looking for. ”    
In addition to the new bans, the policies mandated that the university 
form an advisory board that consists 
of faculty, administrators and 
students who will be responsible 
for devising the exact procedures to 
implement the restrictions. Should 
any single-sex organizations decide 
to become co-ed, as the previously 
all-male Fly and Spee Clubs have, 
Harvard will work with the groups 
to assist them in becoming gender-
inclusive and potentially restore 
some of their lost privileges. 
lauren  hol t   ▶ HARVARD,  from page 1
IOM: Bill Will Lead to 200,000 Less Premature Deaths of  People Born Between 2000 and 2019
when the bill was first introduced 
in March. 
The National Survey on Drug 
Use and Health reports that 
about 90% of tobacco users start 
before the age of 21, and about 
80% first try tobacco before age 
18. A 2015 Institute of Medicine 
study estimated that increasing the tobacco purchase age to 21 will 
result in 200,000 fewer premature 
deaths for those born between 2000 
and 2019. 
In 2014, the UC system 
joined more than 1,100 colleges 
and universities nationwide by 
implementing a systemwide smoke- 
and tobacco-free policy. UCSD 
Director of Health Promotion 
Services Deborah Pino-Saballett told the UCSD Guardian that she 
believes enforcement of this policy 
will increase within the next year, 
without explicit attribution to the 
new law. 
“Currently, there is only 
educational enforcement, but there is 
growing interest on our campus and 
across the UC system for stronger 
enforcement including the issuance 
of citations, ” Pino-Saballett said.In light of the taxes being 
proposed for the 2016 ballot, Brown 
vetoed a bill that would allow voter 
approval of local tobacco taxes to pay 
for healthcare expenses for people 
with tobacco-related illnesses. In 
November, California residents will 
vote on a $2 increase in the state’s 
cigarette tax.
lisa chik   We now stream 
UCSD’s A.S. 
Council 
meeting live every 
Wednesday night 
at 6 p.m on the 
“UCSD Guardian” 
Youtube channel.G-SPAN
A.S. 
COUNCIL 
LIVE!▶ EXHIBIT,  from page 1
▶ SMOKING,  from page 14  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 12, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
QUINN  PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Last week Harvard College formally announced that students involved in “unrecognized single-
gender social organizations” will be ineligible to receive the recommendation from the university 
for major fellowships and scholarships, including the Marshall and Rhodes scholarships. These 
organizations include, but are not limited to, final clubs and Greek organizations, which the college 
argues are inherently discriminatory. According to Harvard President Drew Faust, one of the college’s 
goals is “broadening opportunity and making Harvard a campus for all of its students. ” In addition, 
she pointed out that these organizations perpetuate “forms of privilege and exclusion at odds with our 
deepest values. ”Scholarships and leadership positions that require university recommendations require 
that the university support and a ffirm that a member of a single-gender social organization, and his or 
her values, are supported by the institution itself. 
     Since Harvard College openly condemns the values of single-gender organizations, it would 
be nonsensical for administrators to sponsor a student whose a ffiliations went entirely against their 
own. While the college is being criticized for allegedly infringing upon an individual’s right to freely 
assemble and associate, it is important to note that Harvard is not banning these organizations from 
existing on its campuses, and administrators are not prohibiting students from joining them. Rather, 
the college, as a group of individuals with shared values, is exercising its right to not be represented 
by members of groups who do not share the college’s values by preventing them from obtaining 
prestigious scholarships and leadership positions. As an institution, UCSD also seeks to uphold the 
values of diversity and inclusion. Like Harvard, UCSD administrators should seek to dismantle a 
culture of exclusivity based on class and gender. To promote the change, UCSD should apply similar 
restrictions, limiting some Greek-a ffiliated individuals from obtaining university endorsements for leadership positions and scholarships. The organizations that demonstrate and provide concrete 
evidence of how their membership is accessible to students of all socioeconomic statuses and genders 
can be reconsidered for university endorsements.  
We cannot discount the fact that single-gender organizations have indeed tried to be more 
inclusive and accept individuals of diverse backgrounds and identities, even o ffering scholarships 
for those who demonstrate financial need. In addition, a New Y ork Times article pointed out that 
participating in Greek life encourages students to advocate for political causes and become more 
active within their communities. Furthermore, some argue these organization can internally reform 
themselves. However, just this past October, the Safe Campus Coalition (comprised of the National 
Panhellenic Conference, North American Interfraternity Conference, Kappa Alpha Order, the Alpha 
Tau Omega fraternity and the Sigma Nu fraternity) lobbied for the “Safe Campus Act, ” which would 
prohibit campus o fficials from holding assailants involved in sexual assault cases responsible unless the 
victim filed a report with the police and with the university. It is evident that the national organization 
goes to great lengths to preserve its reputation and ensure its members adhere to traditional standards, 
even if that means compromising the safety and well-being of vulnerable students.
In addition, the selection process itself is subjective and exclusionary, as members are chosen 
based on their compatibility with members of the organization. Y es, each fraternity and sorority 
has a focus and speci fic set of ideals they adhere to, but their criteria as far as who gets accepted is 
private. Indeed, students who want to join sororities sometimes spend thousands of dollars to perfect 
the “art of conversation” and get ready for rush weekend. The return for this “investment” is social 
connections and professional opportunities. If these organizations were so intent on being inclusive, Last week, Harvard College an nounced plans to prohibit  students involved in Final Clubs — student 
organizations separated by gender — from obtaining university-sponsored leadership positions and 
receiving recommendations for prestigious  scholarships. While some have deemed this decision unfair, 
it is a necessary move to counter the exclusionary foundations of many of these clubs.
ILLUSTRA TION   B Y  
CHRISTINA   CARLSON
For the second time this quarter, 
statements in support of Donald 
Trump have been found scrawled, 
sprayed and plastered throughout 
UCSD the Friday night before Tritons-
to-be came to visit the campus on 
Triton Transfer Day. And again, 
the same debate raged in which 
the familiar and tired platitudes of 
the First Amendment and freedom 
of speech were dragged back into 
spotlight of social media. However, 
what separates this instance from 
the chalking over a month ago is 
that the “Chalkers” were caught 
in the act. One was even recorded 
commenting that the purpose of the 
statements was to make the students 
of a liberal campus be made aware 
of conservative political viewpoints. 
But this convenient distortion of 
their argument into a matter of free 
speech reflects an ignorance as to 
what is actually protected under 
free speech. This blatant attempt at 
antagonizing individuals, masked 
as political discourse, is not valid 
political discourse and should not be 
recognized as such.
While it is true that the First 
Amendment prevents Congress — 
and, in recent years, public institutions 
— from punishing or preventing 
free speech, it does not protect these 
individuals from private retaliation, 
so long as this retaliation is within the 
boundaries of the law. Furthermore, 
having the right to speak freely does 
not automatically justify doing so. Claiming that offended persons 
should therefore learn to accept 
or tolerate the Trump chalkers’ 
messages simply because their 
messages are protected under the 
First Amendment is not a valid 
justification; people offended 
by the messages of Trump 
followers have every right to be 
angry, frustrated and hurt by those 
statements given the context in which 
they are used, and they are allowed to 
express their anger without needing 
to temper themselves for the sake of 
respecting “free speech. ”
Some students, including the 
chalker who was filmed, have claimed 
that these messages constitute valid 
political discourse. While it is true 
that the statement “Tritons for 
Trump, ” as literally written, is not 
bigoted, this statement was not written 
in a vacuum. When these slogans are 
paired with statements like “Deport 
them all!” — which was found 
written in front of the Raza Resource 
Centro after the first incident — it is 
necessary to look past the “political 
discussion” going on and recognize 
the existence of an ulterior motive. 
One particular student critical of the 
initial chalkings was singled out with 
a statement proclaiming her support 
for Donald Trump’s presidency. Is 
the targeting of individuals by names 
really what constitutes valid political 
discourse? When messages of hate 
are involved and students are being 
targeted by name, as was the case in the recent chalkings, claims that the 
Trump chalkings are legitimate forms 
of political discourse do not hold up.
These chalkers hide behind 
messages that are hateful, targeting 
and intolerant, all the while claiming 
that it is in the name of heightening 
political discussion at UCSD. If they 
are truly committed to this, then 
why are they highlighting only the 
infamous parts of Trump’s political 
platform targeting minorities? Trump 
supporters should know that no one 
has run a presidential campaign in 
this nation without having some clear 
plan of action that didn’t just involve 
the persecution of Hispanics and 
Muslims. Trump supporters could 
highlight his status as a Washington 
outsider, a valid political concern that 
does not rely on bigoted messages. 
And surely, there are other, more 
effective ways to promote your 
politics than this “tag-and-run” 
method of writing statements. 
However, the chalkers have yet to 
do so and instead highlight Trump’s 
racist agenda under the cover of darkness. It is evident that the Trump 
chalkers are more focused on stirring 
up controversy with racist messages 
than actually contributing to political 
discussion. If this mindset is reflective 
of Trump’s support base at large, it 
does not bode well for a country that 
would elect such a person.
If our campus’ Trump supporters 
truly believe in properly endorsing 
their candidate, and if they wish to be 
taken seriously in the political forum, 
they should openly protest without 
resorting to targeting individuals or 
writing racist statements. This means 
expressing their opinions openly, 
clearly and in the light of day. Trump 
supporters should also be prepared 
to debate just what makes Donald 
Trump so enticing to them. As long as 
those partaking in campus chalkings 
rely solely on xenophobia and racism 
to make their statements, as long 
as they refrain from putting forth 
political reasons for endorsement and 
as long as they remain anonymous, 
such statements fail to exhibit free 
speech and instead tarnish it.Defense of  Anonymous Xenophobic and Racist 
Statements as Political Tarnishes First Amendment
Vincent Pham
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Tina Butoiu
MANAGING EDITOR
Quinn Pieper
OPINION EDITOR
Nate Walker
ASSISTANT OPINION EDITOR
Jacky To
NEWS EDITOR
Josh Lefler
ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITOR
 Maria Sebas
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR
Olga Golubkova
CO-LIFESTYLE EDITOR
Oliver Kelton
FEATURES EDITOREDITORIAL  BOARD
The UCSD Guardian is published twice a week at the 
University of California at San Diego. Contents © 
2015. Views expressed herein represent the majority 
vote of the editorial board and are not necessarily those 
of the UC Board of Regents, the ASUCSD or the 
members of the Guardian staff. NO  MORE  BIDS 
FOR  GREEK  LIFE
See INCLUSION , page 5
ILLUSTRA TION   B Y  
CHRISTINA   CARLSONOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 12, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
why the secrecy? Even if they intended 
on filtering individuals out based 
on a super ficial set of criteria, they 
should at least give potential members 
an equal opportunity to prepare 
themselves or know what to expect 
before they rush. In addition, the 
initiation process itself is also cryptic, 
with each set of Greek letters having 
different rituals. Hazing is technically 
prohibited, but there is no way to 
verify whether or not fraternities 
actually abide by the rules of national 
organizations. We know only who is 
picked, not why certain students are 
selected instead of others, nor how 
their quali fications stack up.
Just like Harvard administrators, 
UCSD administration should be 
concerned with the role of Greek 
community in the sexual assault debate. Harvard’s Task Force for 
the Prevention of Sexual Assault 
has reported that 47 percent of 
surveyed senior women at Harvard 
who had been involved in final 
clubs “reported having experienced 
nonconsensual sexual contact during 
their undergraduate years, ” with 
31 percent being the average for all 
senior women. The discrepancy in 
these statistics demonstrates that 
the Greek system, which mirrors 
final clubs’ organization, not only 
excludes women and individuals 
who are transgender or genderqueer, 
but also creates a hostile, threatening 
environment for female members. 
While we do not advocate 
for complete abolition of Greek 
system and recognize sororities and 
fraternities’ right to assemble, these 
organizations are far from being 
irreplaceable. There are numerous on-campus organizations that 
can provide people with a sense 
of belonging and help them find 
like-minded individuals and o ffer 
networking opportunities — o ften all 
free of charge. Cultural, ideological 
and professional similarities that 
these organizations are based on 
enable students of di fferent identities 
and backgrounds to bond with 
fellow Tritons without experiencing 
any forms of gender- or class-
based exclusion. In response to the 
restrictions it instituted, Harvard 
allocated discretionary funds to 
other student organizations that don’t 
segregate genders. Like Harvard, 
UCSD should also continue to invest 
into college-sanctioned social events 
and “social alternatives” to Greek life, 
with future student-approved increase 
of the Campus Activity Fee being a 
source of extra funding.
it’sICA STUDENT ACTIVITY FEE
REFERENDUM SPECIAL ELECTIONAdministrative Action Necessary to Counter Exclusionary Nature of  Organizations 
▶ INCLUSION from page 4
LIKE US ON
 FACEBOOK
facebook.com/ucsdguardianGOT ISSUES?
BE HEARD
BY YOUR 
PEERS!SEND YOUR 
LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG6     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 12, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
SAN DIEGO  
      AFTER HOURS  
Tragically, La Jolla is notorious for being a city that closes at 6 p.m. Don’t worry though; the UCSD Guardian 
has found a few of its favorite places around San Diego that close (or don’t close) at the more reasonable college-
student hour — at the perfect in-between time of late night and early morning. 
Compiled by UCSD Guardian Lifestyle Staff // Illustrations by David Juarez, Alex Lee, and Alex Liang
Fil ter   Coffee   House 
LOCATION:  7611 Fay Avenue 
San Diego, CA 92037
HOURS:  Sun. to Sat. 7 a.m. to 12 a.m.
COWLES      MOUNT AIN        NIGHT        HIKES SANTEE   DRIVE-IN  THEA TER
Bang  bang The  tipsy  crow the  hookah  lab  (18+) omniaGRUNION  RUN  A T  SCRIPPS Full  moon  p addlesYo u n g   h i c ko ry
LOCATION:  4096 30th Street
HOURS:  Sun. to Sat. 7 a.m. to 12 a.m.
LOCATION:  10990 N Woodside Ave
HOURS:  Fri. to Sat. 7:30 p.m. Sun. to Thurs. 8:00 p.m.
LOCATION:  526 Market Street
HOURS:  Tues. to Sun. 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. 
(12 a.m. on Sun.)LOCATION:  770 5th Ave
HOURS:  Sun. to Sat. 12 p.m. 2 a.m. LOCATION:  1140 Garnet Ave
HOURS:  Sun. to Mon. 5:30 p.m. to 2:30 a.mLOCATION:  454 6th Ave
HOURS:  Mon. to Sat. 9 p.m. to 2 a.m.LOCATION:  Corner of La Jolla Shores Dr. and 
El Paseo Grande
HOURS:  24/7LOCATION:  1548 Quivira Way
HOURS:  Varies per SeasonLest a t's   coffee   house
LOCATION:  3343 Adams Ave
HOURS:  24/7INFINITEA
LOCATION:  4690 Convoy St #111
HOURS:   Sun. to Wed. 12 p.m. to 12 a.m., 
            Thurs. to Sat. 12 p.m. to 1 a.m.LATE-NIGHT STUDY SPOTS
LATE-NIGHT INDOOR AND OUTDOOR EVENTS
21+$ $
$$$$
For students who need a space that works as 
late (or early) as they do, Filter Coffee House, 
located in the bustle of Hillcrest, is both the 
night owl’s and early bird’s paradise. Open at 
the crack of dawn (or for college students, 7 
a.m.) to the midnight breaking point, Filter 
has all the study essentials — cheap snacks, 
including the beloved pizza bagel, caffeinated 
classics, as well as original blends like the Heath 
Mocha or the Grave Digger — a sleep-defying 
beverage containing four generous shots of 
espresso topped with cream, simple syrup, 
frothy milk and more coffee — free wi-fi, plenty 
of outlets, a plethora of seating and even a wine 
list, for when you can’t take no mo’ . 
Thrill seekers, nature enthusiasts and 
midnight adventurers unite for this 3-mile, 
1594-foot summit hike located in the heart of 
San Carlos. During the day, this hike is one made 
for the senses, with breathtaking scenery and 
paths dotted with brightly colored wildflowers; 
at night, Cowles Mountain takes on a completely 
different persona. Avoid the typically trafficked 
trails of the morning and heighten the senses by 
venturing off at night (with a buddy, flashlight 
and HydroFlask, preferably), to get a more 
intriguing and stimulating experience as well as 
an illuminated view of San Diego.Thinking of spicing up your Netflix-and-
chill date night or your superhero movie run 
with the squad? Don’t hit up the usual La Jolla 
movie theaters with overpriced movie tickets and 
popcorn. Instead, take a drive to the Santee Drive-
In Theater and enjoy the most recent releases under 
the stars and in the privacy of your car. Although 
they only take cash, tickets are cheaper than the 
Costco movie ticket packages — it’ s a poor college 
student’ s dream. And think of the food possibilities: 
Bring your own classic movie theater snacks and 
drinks, order some In-N-Out or go classy and pick 
up some sparkling drinks, prosciutto and brie from 
Trader Joe’ s as you cuddle up with your blanket and 
enjoy the new Marvel movie release.
Combine cleverly named sushi rolls with 
Instagram worthy punch bowls, posters of Ryan 
Gosling in the women’s bathroom, all in a 
dimly-lit room with club music, and you get 
Bang Bang. Located in the heart of downtown, 
overpriced sushi and drinks are to be expected 
and is hardly a novel concept. What does give 
Bang Bang its unique feel is how it combines two 
trendy favorites: sushi and drinks with a DJ and 
dance floor — making Bang Bang an all in one 
dinner, club, night out experience. Presale tickets 
for DJ nights — usually Friday nights — cost 
around $5 with no cover charge on other nights. 
For fusion lovers, who are enticed by the idea of 
a sushi-club combo and don’t mind dropping 
$20+ for a trendy Downtown SD experience, 
Bang Bang is worth a try. This multi-level Gaslamp classic is notorious 
for being the place where new 21-year-olds in SD 
enjoy their first legal drink. The Tipsy Crow is a 
great introduction to the diverse SD bar scene,with 
three levels, including a downstairs dance floor, 
main bar-level and an upstairs pool table and chill 
area. The building dates back to 1847, giving the 
place an old-timey feel, found  in the aesthetics of 
the bar area and booths, complete with old-school 
games and comfy couches to sit on and have 
a conversation. For those not into chilling and 
playing board games, the bottom level dance floor 
feels like any average club, playing Top 40 Hits and 
the occasional ‘90s throwback. The Tipsy Crow is 
a Gaslamp go-to for college students in big groups, 
because it has something for everyone, and with 
only a $5 cover charge, there’s no need to feel guilty 
about buying a drink or two. You  m i g ht  n e v e r  h av e  c on s i d e re d  g oi n g 
to a hookah lounge for one simple reason — 
smoking tobacco is bad for you. We are here 
to tell you that you are not wrong. However, 
just like many other guilty pleasures, hookah 
is permissible in moderation, so those rare 
smoking sessions better be good. Unlike other 
sketchy hole-in-the-wall lounges, the Hookah 
Lab Hookah Lounge is located on Garnet and 
is always full of friendly visitors. The shisha 
mixologists will educate you on a hookah 
smoking tradition and provide an impressive 
choice of high-quality, hand-mixed tobacco 
blends. Attentive staff, games and tea are there 
to complete the experience and make you 
forget about any health-related consequences 
of this relaxing activity. Just go easy.  Clubs aren’t always for everyone. Some people 
learn this the hard way, when they decide to try 
one of those $10 party bus deals to OMNIA from 
UCSD. While the clientele of OMNIA is not 
exclusively college-aged students, the majority 
of the crowd is made up of San Diego State, 
University of San Diego and UCSD students. 
Rivalries, stigmas and superiority complexes are 
parked at the door as all SD students unite in the 
name of having a good time, bobbing up and 
down to the DJ on the overcrowded dance floor. 
Other than being a party paradise for college 
students, OMNIA is known for its unforgettable 
club experience, pulling in well-known DJs and 
artists such as: Lil Jon, Steve Aoki and Tiesto. 
Omnia is a solid choice for college students who 
love EDM and don’t mind crowded dance floors 
or expensive drinks. The phrase “going on a grunion run” may leave 
a foreign taste in your mouth with its alliteration 
and grimy assonance, but catching these silverside 
fish make for not only a surprisingly tasty treat, 
but call for a unique California and Mexico coast 
experience. Attracting a number of curious souls 
and seasoned veterans with their extravagant 
mating ritual, grunion abandon the familiar waters 
during high tide and trek up the sand to spawn for 
a four-day period. Mating usually occurs during 
the spring and summer seasons and is an inviting 
opportunity for the locals to catch grunion for a 
dinner caught and prepared from beginning to 
end or to simply observe the circle of life at play 
(cue “The Lion King” song).Y ou kayak through the velvet black waters, 
senses basking in the glorious full moon and 
spirited lights of the city — this setting, though 
as dreamy as a scene from a Nicholas Sparks 
novel, can be enjoyed during every full moon at 
Mission Bay, courtesy of Aqua Adventures. The 
2.5-hour tour through stunning Mission Bay 
unquestionably beats spending the night lying in 
bed while staring at the popcorn ceiling of your 
apartment. Enjoy the sea-salt air and the calm 
waters while feasting on the cityscape of San 
Diego. Spend the time with good company as 
well as the numerous bird species and sea lions. 
No experience is needed, as an instructor will 
provide kayaking basics before the night.You n g  Hi c kor y  i s  m aj or  pi l g r i m a g e  d e s t i n a -
tion for freelancers and studious college kids with 
MacBooks. Here, white apples light up early in the 
morning and do not go out until midnight, thanks 
to the abundance of outlets conveniently located 
next to a number of tables. To fuel your body on 
a long day of cramming, the coffee shop offers 
all classic coffee drinks — iced coffee, latte, cap -
puccino and Americano. An extensive variety of 
beers, in turn, is there to spark up the inspiration 
of those who are 21 and older. Minimalistic design 
and light background music create a perfect study 
atmosphere to tackle any task at any time of the 
day. The only real issue can be finding a good spot 
during afternoon peak hours.Morning, evening, at the break of day, or 
anytime in between, Lestat’s is your go-to study 
spot in Normal Heights with a functional, multi-
room setup. The leftmost entrance, on the 
corner of Adams and Felton, leads into a huge 
workroom packed with tables and chairs of all 
shapes and sizes, available on a first come, first 
serve basis. The walls are decked out in vibrant 
paintings displayed for sale by local artists. The 
middle room is where you can grab a snack, meal 
or a drink from their wide variety of delicious, 
and mostly caffeinated, options. The last room 
is a cozy in-house stage, where local bands and 
comedians have the opportunity to share their 
talents. Lestat’s provides an ideal environment for 
grabbing a drink, checking out cool homegrown 
art and spending a late night studying, but be 
sure to allow time to find parking on the busy 
streets surrounding the area. If boba’s the motivation you need to get through 
that paper, and TapEx isn’t cutting it anymore, 
head on over to Infinitea on Convoy. Notorious 
for its array of boba selections, Convoy’s late night 
star, Infinitea, is the perfect place to study, play 
board games (perfect procrastination tool), chow 
down. Try out traditional Taiwanese snacks, like 
chicken rice, spring rolls and fried fish cakes, or 
sip on oolong, fruit juices and, of course, their 
classic icy milk drinks, filled with creamy slush, 
decadent pudding, boba and flavored to your 
preference. With generous portions and even more 
generous pricings, Infinitea is perfectly catered to 
the student stomach and budget. Can’t make it off 
campus? Infinitea also offers a delivery service, so 
if you just so happen to be stuck in the dorms, or 
even worse, Geisel, let them come to you.  
Free
$$ $$ $$ $$$$ THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 12, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
My  
spare 
room  
funded my 
Master’s  
degree.Earn money by  
sharing your home.
airbnb.com/hostSAN DIEGO  
      AFTER HOURS  8     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 12, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
“It’s really hard to explain why 
anyone would risk their 
life to climb up a rock for 
no reason. It’s not like you’re finding 
the Holy Grail at the top, and it’s 
not like you can’t get to the top any 
other way … It’s not a tangible thing 
you can explain. And it’s really hard 
to describe why you would do that, 
when you are in fact risking your 
life. ” That’s how Oakley Anderson-
Moore, director of “Brave New Wild, ” 
describes the compulsion at the heart 
of her new documentary.
What drives rock climbers to 
do what they do is a compelling 
question, especially given rock 
climbing’s recent surge in popularity, with indoor climbing gyms popping 
up all over the place. Y et it’s a 
question which has received little 
attention, despite the existence of 
an entire subgenre of rock-climbing 
movies. Like other “extreme sport” 
films though, these primarily consist 
of supercuts of great moments in the 
sport, with minimal inquisitiveness 
as to what drives climbers. As 
Anderson-Moore calls it, they’re 
“climbing porn” for those already 
within the subculture.
Drawing upon historical footage, 
occasionally supplemented with 
animation, “Brave New Wild” 
attempts to answer this urge, 
primarily by chronicling the golden age of climbing in the 1950s and ‘60s. 
“[Climbing] is not as small as it 
once was. One reason I wanted to 
make this film was just to make sure 
that the history of this sport didn’t 
get lost in this growth, ” Anderson-
Moore said. 
At the center of this narrative 
stands Warren Harding and Royal 
Robbins, two legendary climbers 
competing to be the master of their 
age. A filmmaker could not ask for 
a better duo at the center of her 
story. Robbins and Harding, despite 
their common obsession, contrast 
as strongly as Apollo and Dionysus. 
Robbins is poetic, controlled and 
poised, believing in the purity and ethics of the climb. Harding is gruff 
and passionate, as interested in 
drinking as he is in climbing. In his 
own words, Robbins saw climbing 
as a way of “getting rid of fear. ” For 
Harding, climbing was just a “silly, 
asshole-ish thing to do” — just a way 
to have fun and indulge the ego.
Both of these views constitute 
an escape from the dominant 
culture of the day. As much as 
“Brave New Wild” chronicles the 
golden age of climbing, it refrains 
from becoming too obsessed with 
a single thesis and turning the film 
into a pedantic lecture. Rather 
it indulges in the fact that, as 
Anderson-Moore says, “climbing is 
basically the vehicle through which 
we’re talking about these different 
things: about what’s important in 
your life and what the whole point 
is of doing anything. Climbing is a 
small thing that people do but leads 
to all these big questions. ” 
Rock climbing, both as a sport 
and as a lifestyle, is inseparable 
from the culture it was born in 
— a consequence of the post-war 
conformity and economic expansion 
of the 1950s that eventually spawned 
the hippie movement. “Brave 
New Wild” walks an offbeat and 
circuitous path, telling the stories of 
those who witnessed this age and the 
curious adventures they experienced.
Central to this is Anderson-
Moore’s own father, Mark Moore, 
who dropped out of society 
following the Kennedy assassination 
in 1963 and became a climber of 
some renown. While Harding and 
Robbins’ continue their famous 
fight to ascend the “Dawn Wall” 
in Y osemite, the film interweaves 
Mark Moore’s own experiences into 
the narrative, roaming through the 
personal moments that were an 
accepted part of the dirtbag lifestyle: 
hopping trains, working odd-jobs 
and avoiding the authorities.
According to Anderson-Moore, 
documentarian Errol Morris’ films, 
such as “Fast, Cheap & Out of 
Control, ” played a huge part in the 
structure of her own documentary. “Morris takes a bunch of 
different, unrelated things … and 
makes a film where he pieces things 
together thematically … Y ou can still 
draw great meaning from connecting 
completely unrelated people and 
things that relate to each other 
thematically. And that could give the 
audience room to think about the 
connections on their own, ” she said.
Like the documentarians she 
admires, Anderson-Moore isn’t 
afraid to put herself, for brief 
moments, into the film. Anderson-
Moore graduated from UCSD in 
2007 with a double major in visual 
arts and in theater arts. Like many 
students on graduation day, she 
found herself unsure of where to 
take her talents and interests. 
“I was trying to figure out what 
I wanted to do, and who am I as a 
person, and what my life is going to 
be. So I started looking at the life of 
my dad — I think I was the same age 
my father was when he started getting 
into climbing, ” she said. Six years 
later, “Brave New Wild” was released.
Does it arrive at a satisfactory 
reason for why people go out and 
climb? Perhaps. For Anderson-
Moore, climbing “is cool because 
we live in this world where safety 
and security is the number one 
priority in our culture. Which is 
understandable. But … you can’t 
just be scared all the time, trying to 
stay safe, and live as long as you can 
in the comfort of your own home, 
because then you’re not really living. 
Climbing is a great way to go out 
and confront your fears; it can be 
very valuable to know who you are. ”
But “Brave New Wild” delves past 
such easy conclusions, recognizing 
that truth is not so easily distilled 
and may require years of wandering. 
Indeed, as one climber in the film 
says: “If you have to ask why, you 
wouldn’t understand even if the 
reason were explained. ”
—   Dieter  joubert  
Senior Staff Writer
a   cha t   with   
"Bra ve  new  
wild's"
Oakley 
Anderson-Moore 
on the New 
World Boulder 
and More
The UCSD Guardian spoke with director and UCSD alumna 
Oakley Anderson-Moore about her documentary that explores the 
motivations and history of early American rock climbing.Directed by  Oakley Anderson-Moore  
Release Date  April 12 PHOTO COURTESY OF FILM FESTIVAL FLIX
T ajima  ramen
LOCATION:  3739 6th Ave
HOURS:  Sun. to Wed. 11:30 a.m. to 11 p.m., Thurs. 
11:30 a.m. 1 a.m., Fri. Sat. 11:30 a.m. 3 a.m.west  coast  t a vern
LOCATION:  2895 University Ave
HOURS:  Mon. to Thurs. 4 p.m. to 2 a.m., 
Fri. to Sun. 10:00 a.m. to 2 a.m.
Broadw a y  pizza
LOCATION:  1008 Broadway Ave
HOURS:  Sun. to Sat. 3 p.m. 3 a.m.$
$$
If you’re looking for a hybrid of great 
Asian cuisine and alcohol-riddled drinks to 
kick back with a couple friends when the sun 
goes down, Tajima Ramen in Hillcrest is one 
to check out. Not only is Tajima well-known 
for being one of the top Japanese restaurants 
in San Diego, but is also considered by many 
to offer the best Ramen noodle soup there is. 
Unlike several other restaurants under the 
same name in San Diego, Tajima Hillcrest 
promises an intimate dining experience for 
those savoring Ramen dishes and a mix of 
craft beer imported from Japan and local city 
brews. One big perk worth mentioning about 
Tajima’s location in Hillcrest is that doors 
close at 3 a.m. every Friday and Saturday. So, 
in case anyone is hungry for some Ramen 
after midnight, Tajima is ready to serve with 
open arms. 
Rose  donuts
LOCATION:  5201 Linda Vista Rd Ste. 100 
HOURS:  24/7$
While the go-to for many at the late night, 
post-imbibe hour is something typically 
carnivorous, smothered in cheese and often 
served with a side of spuds, let’s not neglect 
the desire for something sweet. Rose Donuts, 
constantly open for breakfast, lunch, snack, 
dinner and twilight needs, caters to those 
seeking something satisfyingly sweet and 
equally as filling. With more than a dozen 
flavors to choose from, like honey cruller to 
apple fritter to the classic maple bar, and each 
dozen costing around $13, Rose Donuts does 
not disappoint in taste or cost. And for the 
health conscious — don’t worry, have their 
bran muffin to satiate that carb craving. Located in the heart of North Park in a 
historic building, this movie theater-turned-
tavern will serve you brunch, late night drinks 
and everything in between. In addition to an 
extensive menu full of American favorites, such 
as burgers, sandwiches, hot wings and macaroni 
and cheese, West Coast Tavern offers a wide 
variety of cocktails and happy hour deals — 
something you cannot miss if you are looking 
for pre-concert libations before heading to The 
Observatory North Park hidden right behind 
the corner. Events hosted right at the tavern 
are also worth mentioning: Every weekend at 
10 p.m. West Coast Tavern turns into a small 
dance party with a DJ, so give it a chance on a 
Friday night.           
It’s quite difficult to mess up something as classic as pizza when it’s consumed under the slightest 
buzz, but, sober or completely inebriated, Broadway Pizza is known to do it right every time. This gem 
in the East Village is the perfect place to both prepare for and end a night out. Not one to stray from the 
traditional, Broadway Pizza features signature pies topped with classic meat and vegetable options and 
sells by the slice, personal or party size. The carbohydrate overload doesn’t stop there, Broadway Pizza 
also offers pastas, subs, garlic bread and cakes to accompany the already perfect pizza. And with every 
item, sans combination offerings, costing less than $10, even your most intoxicated self would be proud 
of this late-night decision. 
If you are willing to spend your night in Little Italy — one of the few neighborhoods where San 
Diegans are still out and about after the curfew — but do not want to lay out a fortune on a fancy dinner 
all’italiana, Landini’s Pizzeria is your next destination. Pretend to be walking to a luxurious restaurant 
surrounded by decked out locals prowling in and out of eateries, but go into this small “pizza by the 
slice” joint instead. With Neapolitan thin-crust pizza being its specialty, Landini’s combines 
European-style recipes with New Y ork-style convenience to quickly serve satisfying 
dough triangles to their customers. Take the pizza to go or eat your slice (or two) at 
a patio while talking to inebriated strangers — either way, Landini’s is one of the 
best choices you can make at 2 a.m.BEST DRUNK FOOD EATERIES
$
$LANDINI'S  PIZZERIA
LOCATION:  1827 India St 
HOURS:  Sun. to Wed. 11 a.m. to 11 p.m., Thurs. 11 
a.m. to 1 a.m., Fri. to Sat. 11 a.m. to 2 a.m.
 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 12, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
PHOTO COURTESY OF ARTPOWER AT UCSD
Modern artists, engineers 
and filmmakers merged 
traditional cinematic 
narratives with the technology 
of the future to create a wholly 
immersive and interactive 
experience featuring science, art 
and technology at the 2016 Filmatic 
Festival on May 7 at UCSD’s 
Qualcomm Institute. A total of 22 
installations were exhibited, some 
nestled away in darkened labs and 
black-box theaters, and others 
projected outdoors directly onto 
existing landmarks. Almost all 
involved one or a combination of 
interactive headsets, sleek remote 
controllers, 3-D cinematic virtual 
reality, audio-visual immersion 
and, perhaps most importantly, an 
open mind and vivid imagination. 
The following are descriptions of 
just a few installations from the 
multi-spectral array explored by 
the Guardian. 
Margaret Dolinsky’s “Figuratively 
Speaking” is a virtual environment 
for exploration and contemplation. 
Wearing 3-D glasses, the audience is 
able to enter a fantasy world of little, 
friendly-looking animated faces and 
figures bobbing around on an island. 
The figures are drawn up using 
simple, flat-faced geometric shapes 
by Dolinsky and then later brought 
into the third dimension via the Unity 
game engine. We navigate through the 
world via a remote control, following 
brown bulb-like blobs up hills — a 
metaphor for crowd mentality — 
and into trees made up of noses, 
because the figure “nose” something. 
According to Dolinsky, navigating 
this fantasy world represents 
psychic dilemmas and refracting 
consciousness. As a whole, Dolinsky’s 
piece is nonlinear and non-narrative, 
produced and experienced as a stream 
of consciousness. 
“Quantum Imagination, ” created 
by the San Diego-based NanoVR 
team, is a virtual reality medium for 
nanoscale design and simulation. The 
NanoVR team aims to create virtual 
reality tools for scientific design, 
giving users the tools to intuitively 
design using simple 3-D organic 
materials comprised of carbon and 
hydrogen. The simulation itself is 
impressive — wearing an interactive 
headset (HTC Vive) and earphones, 
the user is able to use two hand-
held remote controls to drag, drop 
and connect multiple atoms in a 
3-D, 360-degree space; whatever 
the user sees through the headset is 
simultaneously displayed on another 
screen for observers. Sensors and 
cameras placed around the room are 
used to read and capture matter and 
motion. The experience starts with 
instructions to step forward onto a 
lit blue square; a video introducing 
the potential for innovation in nano 
engineering plays, then the user is 
invited to create their own molecules 
from different atoms spread out 
throughout the space, surrounding the 
user like a 3-D polygonal structure. At 
this point, the user can walk around 
within a confine of about 20 feet by 20 
feet, reaching in any direction to grab, 
drag, and drop atoms — the result is 
limited only by the user’s creativity. 
The state-of-the-art Audio 
Spatialisation Lab offered a preview 
of the new “Mass Effect 4D” theme 
park attraction based on the critically 
acclaimed BioW are game series set 
to open soon at California’s Great 
America in Santa Clara, California. 
Real-time acoustic simulations 
accompanied the virtual screen 
experience through multi-directional 
speakers equipped with constructive 
and deconstructive facial recognition, 
creating a sound cloud constantly 
attached to the viewer. Sitting 
directly in front of the screen with 
the speakers in front of them, the 
audience is thrust into a live-action 
scenario: they are aboard a spaceship 
set for Teranova, a planet in another 
solar system introduced as the new 
Earth. The complete attraction, 
opening soon, is set to take place 
in a newly design theater with a 
holographic screen, motion seats and 
atmospheric surround-sound arrays.The media presentation “Hearing 
Landscapes” showcased the latest 
work of Pulitzer nominee, UCSD 
music professor and Qualcomm 
Institute’s composer-in-residence Lei 
Liang. Liang’s goal was to reconstruct 
the lost images of Chinese artist 
Huang Binhong (1865–1955). Along 
with a team of engineers at QI, 
Liang translated a series of images 
which were scanned and digitally 
enlarged using multispectral imaging 
into a sound composition. Liang in 
particular worked on developing new 
concepts of sonic particles to create 
a new language of sound design and 
spatialisation, but his score was largely 
influenced by both his interpretation 
of Binhong’s original images and 
the newly scanned high-resolution, 
enlarged projections. What resulted 
was an electro-acoustic composition 
reflective of the landscape in all its 
glorious layers and intricacies, going 
a long way towards answering Liang’s 
exploration of decoding the simplicity 
of complexity. 
In “Making the Past Present, ” 
UCSD professor and director of the 
Calit2 Centre of Interdisciplinary 
Science for Art, Architecture, and 
Archeology Falko Kuester explores 
the power of science, technology, 
engineering, arts and mathematics 
as an engine of disruptive thinking 
in pursuit of artful engineering. 
Kuester and his team are passionate 
about cultural heritage engineering 
as well as innovation and preserving 
world heritage digitally through the 
collection of big data. Kuester’s live 
narration of a short film details a 
recent project of digitally mapping 
the Baptistry di Giovanni, in 
Florence. Two UCSD structural 
engineering Ph.D candidates traveled 
last year to the site of the baptistry 
to conduct a health assessment of 
sorts on the centuries-old building 
and to understand the structural 
and historical interactions of the 
site, including its flaws. They used 
LiDAR (light detection and ranging) 
laser scanning, high-resolution 
photography, thermal imaging and 
photogrammetry to construct a 
3-D, 360-degree live model of the 
entire baptistry. Ground-penetrating 
radar technology combined with a 
custom-built mobile robotic thermal 
camera platform allows the team to 
see through walls and beneath floors. 
According to Kuester, the ability to 
bring the data back home to analyze 
not only allows us to step into areas 
of scientific discovery through tools 
of virtual reality and data interaction, 
but just as importantly, presents an 
opportunity for a story spun with 
compassion and human engagement.
Adding the third dimension 
and interaction to a medium 
previously only manipulated on 
a 2-D screen introduces new 
perspectives towards the material 
properties of these elements. In 
a panel moderated by Benjamin 
Bratton, UCSD visual arts professor 
and director of the Centre for 
Design and Geopolitics, Sundance 
Institute’s New Frontier Labs 
director Kamal Sinclair spoke 
on how language triggers higher 
thinking and function beyond pure 
instinct, and voiced curiosity over 
how new technologies will allow 
us to experience something neither 
physical nor normative. What 
is clear from the myriad virtual 
reality experiences on display at 
Calit2 is its monstrous potential for 
growth. Though virtual reality can 
be dangerous in its applications, 
it offers some people a sense of 
liberation in their experience of a 
reconstructed world. 
Aside from its dazzling 
presentation of cinematic reality, 
and a complete hyperstimulation 
of the senses, Filmatic Festival 
communicated the community’s 
extraordinary progress in the field 
and galvanised today’s generation of 
artists, engineers, and scientists to 
very real possibilities of tomorrow. 
 
—   megan  chang
Contributing WriterThe 2016 Filmatic Festival demonstrated the 
current state of evolving technology. 
Date  May 7
Location   Qualcomm Institutefilma tic 
festiv ala   moon   shaped   pool
by   Radiohead
Views
by   DrakeRelease Date May 8
Release Date April 29Radiohead’s latest album is more than just its ninth; it is the 
culmination of two decades of avant-garde art-rock music.
Drake spans the globe and all its accompanying emotions from the 
confines of his home — 243 square miles known as Toronto.ALBUM   REVIEW
ALBUM   REVIEWFive years in the making, 
Radiohead’s latest album is 
a slow-paced tribute to the 
past, present and future. Thom 
Yorke, in his characteristic croon, 
wonders about current politics in 
“Burn The Witch, ” a commentary 
on the European refugee crisis (he 
sings “Stay in the shadows/Cheer 
at the gallows”), and about lost 
time in “Daydreaming, ” where he 
announces that he is “Beyond the 
point/of no return/of no return/and 
it’s too late/the damage is done. ” 
What sets “ A Moon Shaped Pool” 
apart from the band’s other eight 
albums, though, is that it marks 
a new beginning for Radiohead. 
Drawing inspiration from its entire 
body of work, the band presents 
listeners with new masterpieces 
complemented by projects that 
have been tweaked and altered 
throughout its musical career.  
As Radiohead’s most melodic 
album, the compositional mastery 
of guitarist Jonny Greenwood (the 
genius behind the soundtracks 
for “There Will Be Blood, ” “The 
Master, ” and “Inherent Vice”) meets 
Yorke’s lyrics in brief moments of 
aural perfection. With the help 
of the London Contemporary 
Orchestra, strings play a large part 
in “ A Moon Shaped Pool, ” and are most notably depended on in the 
deceptively high-energy opening 
track “Burn The Witch, ” in “Glass 
Eyes” and in “The Numbers. ” While 
in the past Greenwood’s string 
compositions played the supporting 
role, they are now the instruments 
being supported.
In a departure from its long-
winded rock sound, songs like 
“Present Tense” and “Desert Island 
Disk, ” which the band played live 
in Paris before the album’s release, 
experiment with Yorke’s version of 
pop-folk. The tracks are refreshing 
breathers between passionate odes, 
but by the end you’ll find yourself 
eager to return to the beaten path 
that is Yorke’s comfortable despair. 
These tracks are some of the easiest 
to listen to — their tempos quick 
and their rhythms predictable. 
But if you’re expecting immediate 
gratification, you’re missing the 
point of Radiohead — a band which 
repeatedly enforces the truth of the 
mantra “patience is a virtue. ”
The last song of the album, 
“True Love Waits, ” is a diamond 
among precious stones and is where 
Yorke’s emotions couple with a soft, 
four-chord progression played on 
the piano to create the most human 
— that is to say, relatable — track 
the band has ever produced. It is for this reason that we’ve been listening 
to crumby live versions of “True 
Love Waits” since 1994, when Yorke 
first wrote and played the song to 
a live audience. Until the release 
of “ A Moon Shaped Pool, ” the love 
song had only been recorded once 
on Radiohead’s 2001 live album “I 
Might Be Wrong, ” and had been 
festering somewhere within Yorke’s 
presumably incomprehensible 
conscious as fans wondered if a 
studio version of the track would 
ever surface. True to the song’s title, 
Yorke held off on releasing “True 
Love Waits” until an equally perfect 
album was able to frame it. Much 
different than the live version, and 
immeasurably better, the track 
allows us to experience Yorke at his 
most vulnerable as he buries his 
pride and pleads “Just don’t leave/
don’t leave. ”
“ A Moon Shaped Pool” is not 
just another wildly innovative 
album by Radiohead; it is the 
culmination of over two decades of 
music and the emergence of a fresh, 
unapologetic sound that the British 
rock band is sure to build on in 
years to come. 
—   Ma tthew   zamudio 
Contributing Writer
Major releases from big 
artists have consistently 
demarcated 2016’s cultural 
landscape, at least for a few weeks 
each, usually leaving nothing behind 
but remnants of a much-debated 
marketing campaign and a few decent 
tracks amid the filler. Drake plans to 
change that. Now hip-hop’s biggest 
star, intent on upending the first half 
of 2016 (already engorged on Kanye, 
Beyonce and Kendrick Lamar), 
Drake has unleashed a statement of 
success. It’s an album that can be seen 
from two angles. From one side, it’s a 
triumphant victory lap that hammers 
in Drake’s status — a continuation of 
the boisterous 2015 he had. From the 
other, it’s a breakup album that deals 
with the material consequences of 
unprecedented power and fame. The 
album is many things, but one thing 
is for sure — it’s all from Drake’s point 
of view.
The album switches between 
tracks like the harder, rap-driven “U 
With Me?” and the R&B inflected 
“Feel No Ways” without tonal 
whiplash, a testament to the album’s 
immaculate sequencing. “Views” is a 
studio soiree, an audio equivalent to 
an intimate dinner party — mature 
when needed to be and cheeky 
when not. The spontaneity and 
boasts of “If Y ou’re Reading This, 
It’s Too Late” has been traded in for 
a composed cool that distinguishes 
much of “Views. ” “9” is a monster of 
a track, made up of distorted vocal 
samples and deep crackling drums while Drake proclaims the spoils of 
his kingdom. “I turn the six upside 
down it’s a nine now. ” Spoken with 
the conviction of a national hero, it’s 
hard not to believe him.
It must be cold at the top for 
Drake, but heat manages to invade the 
northern cold. Dancehall’s inherent 
warmth serves as a significant stylistic 
influence for a few of the album’s 
tracks, most notably “Controlla” 
and “One Dance. ” The template 
gives Drake free reign to practice 
his patois and effortlessly hybridize 
contemporary hip-hop with dancehall. 
Although some may see it as an 
intrusion into the cocoon Drake has 
built, the Caribbean vibes actually 
come from the thriving West Indian 
community of Toronto — not so 
much intrusion as inclusion. Drake’s 
ability to cross over between genres 
and establish a new flavor in pop’s 
soundscape has made him a genuine 
cultural ambassador. Able to glide 
through genres and time, the nostalgic 
hues of “Feel No W ays” are Drake at 
his best. Produced by Jordan Ullman 
of Majid Jordan, the song is more 
than just a spiritual successor to 
2013’s massive “Hold On We’re Going 
Home. ” There’s a pure pop sensibility 
that runs through both, but “Feel No 
W ays” is the aftermath of a naive, 
love-stricken romp. The warm chords 
melt into each other as Drake sings 
“There’s more to life than sleeping in 
and getting high with you / I had to let 
go of us to show myself what I could 
do. ” “Views” is an album for lovers and the scorned alike.
Tracks with a heavier R&B 
influence, like the airy “With Y ou, ” 
operate on a weightless plane of 
sensuous inclinations. That’s why it’s 
hard to believe that “Redemption, ” 
what should have been a Drake 
R&B staple, flags — falling back on 
maudlin antics (“I hate the number 2, 
that shit is unforgiven / Tryna satisfy 
everybody / It’s like they can’t get 
enough”) and running two minutes 
too long. It’s especially weak when 
compared to the superior “Fire and 
Desire, ” the album’s penultimate 
track, which presents similar themes 
in a much tighter package. One of 
the other few missteps seems to be 
inevitable in a long project — filler. 
“Pop Style” is an especially odd 
misstep because this is the sort of 
808-driven beat that Drake rode 
without issue on “What a Time to Be 
Alive. ” Instead of carrying the hyper-
intense energy of bangers like “Digital 
Dash” and “Jumpman, ” “Pop Style” 
retreats into half-baked one liners and 
a weak hook.
“Views” is fitting for Drake’s 
unprecedented rise to power and 
fame, both of which he’s handled with 
aplomb and poured into this project. 
He isn’t seeking help in bearing his 
soul to fans, but rather just talking it 
off. Less confessional and more casual, 
this is sonic retribution.
—   Sam  velazquez
Associate A&E EditorA
A-
10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 28, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDS$
Gua rdian Classi fieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifieds
BIKES
Brand New Black GT Bike - $85. Trying to 
get rid of this bike I never used. The wheels 
need some pumping but are overall good. 
Listing ID: 262480463 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Trek 520 Touring Bike - $400. Frame is 21” , 
32” standover height. Frame was recently 
bead blasted and powder coated black. 
No dents, no dings, no rust. Listing ID: 
262480462 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Beach Cruiser by Phat Cycles - $90. Nice 
color combo, has basket as well. Can deliver 
if needed. Listing ID: 262480455 at ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tion
ELECTRONICS
Panasonic 50 - $300. Like new. No prob -
lems at all. Comes with remote. Two HDMI 
imports. Speakers work great. Sports look 
way better on a plasma than an LCD. Listing 
ID: 262480543 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
Samsung VR Oculus Headset - $100. Brand 
new Samsung VR Oculus virtual headset. 
Listing ID: 262480541 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
LG Tone 900 Bluetooth Headset - $60. 
Luxury design. Works with all Bluetooth devices. Talk time up to seventeen hours. 
Music up to fourteen hours. Includes USB 
charger, four extra earbuds and manual. 
Listing ID: 262480533 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
FURNITURE
Desk and Table - $2500. Custom made 
executive desk, bought new for $8000. 
Comes with table. Good condition. Listing 
ID: 262480566 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
Couch for Sale - $100. Dark brown couch. 
Terrific condition. A few cat scratches, but 
still in great shape. Listing ID: 262480567 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Two Twin Wooden Ikea Bed Frames Only - 
$60. One was a display and the other was in 
the As Is section. No slats included. Asking 
$60 for both, an additional $10 gets them 
delivered to your place as long as it is near 
East County. Slats can run as low as $30 at 
IKEA brand new. Got them for my girls but 
the room was too small, so we are going 
with bunk beds and would like to find 
these a new home. Listing ID: 262480564 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
tyour vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies 
on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.ukLevel: 1234 Level: 1234
SUDOKU
Dr. Terranova, Dr. Sherman, and Dr. Horne
TORREY PINES
DENTAL ARTS
We welcome UCSD Staff & Students
Richard L Sherman DDS
Steven B. Horne DDS
Scripps/Ximed Medical Center
9850 Genessee Avenue #720
La Jolla, CA 92037
858-453-5525
Info@TorreyPinesDentalArts.com
www.TorreyPinesDentalArts.com• All dental services provided in one 
convenient location
• We accept all UCSD Insurance Plans
• New Patients & Emergencies Welcome
• Easily accessible from Campus -
right across from the UCSD baseball 
field; on the UCSD Bus Line.PART TIME JOB 
Family looking for  
part-time student to look 
after our 9 and 11 year old 
daughters  
Monday – Friday,  
2:30pm – 5:30pm.
Carmel Valley 92130
Person must love children, 
have reliable car and outgoing 
personality. Responsibilities 
include picking up from 
school, helping with 
homework, driving to drop  
off at basketball. 
If interested, contact 
Natalie at 858-414-1129 or 
nrones@coleydocter.com
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972+E/3 OT+ER6, F,1D +E/3 :+E1 YOU 1EED ,T,
A1D 0A.E .AR0A REA/!
Karmonize.org  is a student organization where we 
can support good causes, cooperate, and 
volunteer to improve the UCSD community.SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 12, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
No. 10 UC San Diego Heads 
to NCAA Championship After 
Defeating Whittier
The UCSD women’s water polo 
team defeated Whittier College 
11–7 in one of the two NCAA 
Championship play-in games on 
Tuesday, May 10 at the Canyonview 
Aquatic Center.
The Tritons improved to 27–9 as 
they picked up their eighth straight 
win against Whittier. UCSD will 
move on to play No. 2 UCLA at 
UCLA ’s Spieker Aquatic Center on 
May 13, for their first matchup of 
the NCAA Championship. San Diego 
State will also move on to the NCAA 
Championship as it defeated Wagner 
College 7–4 at Canyonview Aquatic 
Center. The Aztecs will play top-
ranked USC for their first game. 
The Tritons set the tempo early as 
junior center Lauren Boyer and senior 
attacker Julia Kirkland recorded the 
first two goals of the match. Kirkland went on to score again in the first 
quarter for the Tritons but not before 
Whittier got one by senior goalkeeper 
Courtney Miller. 
Senior attacker Lauren Kistler 
scored twice during the second 
quarter while junior two-meter 
defender Lani Tittle also found the 
back of the net once. Whittier scored 
twice within the quarter, making the 
score 6–3 in the Tritons’ favor as they 
headed into halftime.
The defense held Whittier from 
scoring the entire third quarter as 
Kistler and junior two-meter defender 
Alexis Wieseler scored, making the 
score 8–3.
The fourth quarter was a little 
nerve-racking for the Tritons as they 
allowed four goals, but luckily scored 
three goals of their own to clinch the 
win with a final score of 11–7. 
Miller had 12 saves on the day 
while Kistler and Kirkland recorded 
hat tricks on the night. 
TRITON
PANTRYFOOD
location: Original Student Center
email: foodpantry@ucsd.edu
phone: (858) 534-5694The mission of the Triton Food Pantry is to provide 
a discreet service to UCSD students in need of 
food. Our goals are to ensure that every student 
has enough energy to get through the day and that 
no student needs to give up a single meal for any 
reason. We aim to build a network of resources and 
awareness about food insecurity.
Hours subject to change in future quarters.Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri
10am–12pm9:30am–
2:30pm9:30am–
2:30pm10am–12pm 10am–12pmSPRING HOURS OF OPERATION:some critical errors by the Cougars’ defense, Howsley, Hearn 
and Shirley all ended up with opportunities to add to the score 
count, once again giving the Tritons a commanding lead over 
the Cougars. 
Just like in their first face-off, the Cougars attempted to save 
face by scoring some late-game runs, including a home run 
through right field, but were once again not granted any miracles. 
The Tritons came out on top with a commanding 7–2 victory.
Redshirt senior pitcher Alon Leichman pitched all seven 
innings to earn the win. Although he allowed five hits, two runs 
and picked up two errors, he did more than enough on defense, 
giving the Tritons the opportunity to bounce back. Hearn once 
again was fantastic at bat, getting two hits, two runs and an RBI, 
while Howsley also had two hits on the day.Game Four
Unfortunately for UCSD, Cal State San Marcos would walk 
away with the last laugh. 
In spite of the fact that the Tritons were not able to manage 
a single hit in the first two innings, the team regained its 
composure in the top of the third inning, at least momentarily. 
With the bases loaded, senior outfielder Gradeigh Sanchez 
bashed a ball to the right, sending in Howsley and sophomore 
infielder Tyler Plantier to score, putting the Tritons up 2–1 early 
in the game. 
This would prove to be the offense’s last hurrah, however, as 
the Tritons failed to capitalize on their early lead. Feeding on 
their opponent’s floundering offense, the Cougars immediately 
regained the lead with a two-run third inning, and then built 
upon that lead with a lone run in the sixth. The knockout punch 
would not arrive until the penultimate inning of the game: In the bottom of the eighth, the Cougars did as they pleased against the 
tired Triton defense, eventually doubling the Cougars’ score for 
the game. When the game finally wrapped up, the Tritons fell 8–2 
to their conference rivals.
Sophomore pitcher Jack Rupe Jr. was credited with the loss, 
allowing six hits, three runs and obtaining three errors. Howsley 
managed three hits and a run. While Sanchez had his two hits 
and two RBIs, that was not enough to top the vengeful Cougars.
With the series split, the Tritons moved to 30–10 overall 
and 20–17 in conference play and the Cougars are now 23–25 
overall and 15–21 in conference play. Next up, UCSD embarks 
for Stockton for the California Collegiate Athletics Association 
tournament, which began on Wednesday, May 11. 
Alex Wu     adw006@ucsd.edu
Samantha  Glantz    Baseball Needs Stable Play From Both Sides, Offense and Defense, In Order For Success In CCAA Tourney
▶ BASEBALL,  from page 12
BY  Sa m a n t h a  G l a n t z
senior UCSD Uses Early Lead To Knock Whitter College Out of Playoffs 
On an eight game winning streak, No.10 Tritons will head to Los Angeles to face UCLA in the first round of the NCAA Championship.W. W A TERPOLO
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE /UCSD GUARDIANCONTACT THE EDITOR
DEV  JAIN  &  MARCUS  THUI LLI ER 
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MAY 12, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
week  in
summar y
W.  W A TER POLO BASEBALL
Cal State San Marcos
Cal State San MarcosUCSDUCSD
UCSD
Whittier College11  0
7  272  4
2  811
Facing their final matchup of the season, the UCSD baseball team 
hoped to cap their roller coaster ride of a season at a high point. 
Interestingly enough, the team’s final games against conference foe 
Cal State San Marcos mirrors their season itself: a series full of unbelievable 
highs and some drastic lows.
Game One
Much like the start of the season, the Tritons came out swinging with 
unbreakable confidence. Catching fire immediately, the Triton hitters 
had no trouble getting on base in the top of the first inning. With the 
bases loaded, a well-placed hit by junior infielder JD Hearn gave redshirt 
sophomore infielder Tim White a clear path to home, a precedence to a 
barrage of scoring that would cap out at four runs. Even though the Tritons 
stranded three players on base at the end of the inning, a 4–0 lead proved 
to be satisfactory for the Tritons.
Of course, a lead doesn’t matter if no one does anything to defend 
it. Freshman pitcher Kyle Mora manned the fort, holding a hot hand 
for the five innings he pitched. He allowed only a single hit during his 
period of play so that the Cougars had a hard time making any amount 
of offense themselves.
Unwilling to take their foot off the gas, the Tritons continued to pile on 
the pressure for the rest of the game, scoring two in the third, one in the 
seventh and another four runs in the top of the ninth.
Despite being down 11–0 in the final inning of the game, the Cougars 
still had an inning to play, and wound up earning some of their pride back 
due to a two-run homer by Cal State San Marcos senior first baseman 
Brandon Bentson. Unfortunately for them, the Cougars were not granted 
a miracle by the baseball gods, as the Tritons cruised to an 11–2 victory.
Mora was credited with the win after squaring off against 23 batters 
and refusing to give up a single run. Given the nature of the blowout, it 
makes sense that a large chunk of the team had their time to shine. White 
was phenomenal at bat, earning three hits, two RBIs and a run on the day. 
Hearn and junior outfielder Christian Leung both finished with two hits, 
one RBI and two runs, and junior infielder Tyler Howsley picked up two 
hits, two RBIs and one run. 
Game Two
But even after it looked like the Tritons had the Cougars’ number, Cal 
State San Marcos wound up flipping the table on UCSD. From the start of 
the Tritons’ senior day doubleheader, all of UCSD’s offensive poise from 
the previous game appeared to have vanished. The outs piled up for the 
Tritons as the Cougars’ defense made few mistakes, blanking the Tritons 
for the entire game. 
Meanwhile, appearing to have learned from their game-one beatdown, 
the Cougars managed to load the bases in the top of the second inning 
and proceeded to score three consecutive runs thanks to a walk, a fielder’s 
choice and a fielding error. Even though the Cougars would only score one 
more run for the remainder of the game, the early deficit was just too much 
for the Tritons to overcome.
Despite pitching seven mostly scoreless innings, freshman pitcher 
Preston Mott allowed Cal State San Marcos to pull ahead early, giving up 
the three runs in the second inning. Even though Hearn pulled off two hits 
for the game, he was unable to spark any momentum for the team as they 
were shut out 4–0.
Game Three
Clearly displeased with their previous performance, the Tritons once 
again stepped it up and showed off the aggression and poise that made 
them a contender early in the season — even if it was only for a game. 
After a scoreless first inning, the Triton offense kicked into gear. With 
two players on base, senior first baseman Zach Friedman smashed the 
ball into right field which gave Leung and junior infielder Vince Mori an 
opportunity to dash home. This resulted in giving the Tritons a 2–0 lead. 
The Tritons would go on to score another run in the following inning, 
but the fourth inning was where the magic struck for UCSD. Thanks to Tritons Split Series
Offense and defense inconsistent over 
four games against Cal State San Marcos. 
Tritons look foward to CCAA Championship 
versus Cal State Monterey Bay.
Written by Senior 
Staff Writer  // 
Alex Wu
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE /UCSD GUARDIAN
See BASEBALL , page 11UPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESBaseball 
W.Water Polo  
Track & Field
W.Rowing
M.Tennis 5/11
5/13
5/14
5/14
5/18AT CCAA Championship
AT NCAA Championship
AT Santa Barabara
AT Philadelphia 
VS NCAA Championship