VOLUME 50, ISSUE 8   MONDA Y , OCTOBER 17, 2016  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
SHOTS
FIRED
POSSESSING A SMALL BUT 
DEVOTED FOLLOWING, SHOTS 
FIRED HAS KEPT BATTLE RAP 
ALIVE AT UCSD FOR THREE 
YEARS. WE TALKED WITH A 
FEW OF THE CLUB’S RAPPERS 
ABOUT THEIR CRAFT AND 
THEIR CULTURE.
ASIAN-AM ERICAN     RACISM
TRITONS  KEEP WINNINGFOREIGN  F ASCINA TION
Women's  SoccerOPINION, P AGE 4
sports,  P age  12
FORECAST
VERBATIM
“BUT WHERE ARE YOU 
REALLY FROM?” THE 
INSISTENCE THAT, DESPITE 
HAVING BEEN BORN AND 
RAISED IN THE U.S., ONE 
IS STILL A FOREIGNER IS 
JUST ONE OF THE MANY 
WAYS ASIAN-AMERICANS 
ARE MADE TO FEEL OUT OF 
PLACE WITHIN OUT SOCIETY.”
- Alexander Chen
GOOD FUN FOR WHOM?
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
SAN DIEGO REFUGEES  ....2
WIKILEAKS  ...................... 4
SEXUAL ASSAULT  ............ 7
CROSSWORD  ................ 10
WOMEN’S VOLLEYBALL..  11FEA TURES,  P AGE  6
ILLUSTRATION BY CHRISTINA CARLSON
MONDAY
H 70 L 60TUESDAY
H 71 L 60
WEDNESDAY
H 85 L 63THURSDAY 
H 86 L 63
UCSD held a ceremonial 
groundbreaking of the new 
Biological and Physical Sciences 
Building last Friday at 4 p.m. 
Chancellor Pradeep Khosla, Dean of 
the Irwin and Joan Jacobs School of 
Engineering Robert Conn, Dean of 
the Division of Biological Sciences 
Bill McGinnis and Associate Dean of 
the Division of Physical Sciences Jeff 
Remmel spoke at the event. 
The seven-story facility is 
expected to reach completion in June 
2018 and cost a total of $111 million, 
almost 50 percent of which came 
from UCSD. Chancellor Khosla told 
the UCSD Guardian that while it is 
always difficult to obtain funds for 
such projects, he feels optimistic about the current university-wide 
funding campaign.
“It’s always difficult to get funding 
but, you know, since I have been 
here, the community has been very 
supportive, ” Khosla said. “We are in 
the middle of a $2 billion campaign, 
[and] we are already at [$1] billion in 
four years. The campaign [will span 
from] 2012 to 2022. I got here in 
2012, so [after] four years … we are 
at $1.79 billion. ”
A.S. Council Biological Sciences 
Senator Christy Olds told the 
Guardian that she welcomes the 
new  building and feels that it is a 
much needed addition to the UCSD 
campus.
“I am excited about the new 
building, it’s great that the campus 
will be acquiring more lab space 
available to undergraduates, especially with the recent influx of 
students, ” Olds said. “With over 20% 
of our students in the biological 
sciences it is a much needed 
investment for the campus. ”
Khosla further explained that 
the new facility will accommodate 
the increasing number of students 
majoring in biology and chemistry 
at UCSD.
“These two departments ... 
biological sciences and chemistry 
— have grown significantly, ” Khosla 
told the Guardian. “They don’t 
have as much space as, for example, 
physics does or mathematics. 
Everybody needs more space. We 
have one more building on the books 
but that’s [about] 10 years out. ” UCSD Receives 
Record Amount 
of  Private 
DonationsCAMPUS
Almost 46,000 gifts from 
alumni, foundations and 
funds increased the total 
endowment to $1.77 billion.
BY   m a t t h e w   z a m u d i o
staff Writer
UCSD raised $213 million in 
private donations during the 
2015–16 fiscal year according to 
an Oct. 5 press release, the highest 
amount the university has ever 
received and a 20-percent increase 
from last year. In the form of nearly                         
46,000 gifts from private funds, 
foundations and alumni.
As of June 30, 2016, the end 
of the fiscal year, UCSD’s total 
combined endowment is $1.177 
billion, a sum managed by the UC 
San Diego Foundation and the UC 
Regents. The donations come after 
the inauguration of a comprehensive 
fundraising campaign that 
aims to raise $2 billion over a                        
10-year period. 
The biggest beneficiary of this 
year’s donations is research, receiving 
$129 million, with $47 million going 
to department support and $16.8 
million to student support. The 
fields of health sciences and physical 
sciences will receive $93.3 million 
and $35.5 million of the donations, 
respectively. Marine sciences at the 
Scripps Institute of Oceanography 
will receive $26.4 million.  
Projects like the Contextual 
Robotics Institute, which will 
develop “human-friendly robotics 
systems to advance how humans 
live,” and a new observatory in 
Chile, where researchers will try to 
understand the first moments of 
time after the Big Bang by measuring 
cosmic microwave background, are 
two examples of ways in which the 
university will spend the donations.
“Great things are happening at 
UC San Diego, ” Chancellor Pradeep 
Khosla said in the press release. “We 
experienced a truly amazing year 
highlighted by a record-breaking 
increase in charitable gifts. ”
Of all the donors, foundations 
donated the most during the 
course of the last fiscal year, giving 
$108.7 million in a 57-percent 
increase from last year. The Simons 
Foundation and the Heising-Simons 
Foundation gave $40 million 
combined to fund the construction 
of the Chilean observatory, to be 
named the Simons Observatory. 
Private donors designated a total 
of $93.3 million. Entrepreneurs and 
philanthropists Gary and Mary West 
gave the university $11.8 million to 
fund the construction of a state-
of-the-art emergency care unit A.S. Council Approves 2016-2017 
Budget at a $6,400 Surplus 
A.S. Council approved the budget for the 
upcoming 2016-17 school year on Wednesday 
evening at an open, Joint Session with 
members of the Senate and Council present, at the 
Price Center Forum. The money appropriated in the 
budget comes from the accumulation of student fees, 
which amounts to approximately $5.2 million this year. 
Financial Controller Justin Pennish explained 
how a number of events converged to make this 
year’s budget one of the largest the A.S. Council has 
had in recent years.
“This year’s budget is a particularly strong one 
because the referendum increased the campus activity 
fee income that [the A.S. Council] receives, but also 
because we had some prior year rollover, and service 
and reserve income returned to [the council], ” Pennish 
told the UCSD Guardian. “The fee increase, coupled with the rise in undergraduate attendance, expanded 
the pool of funds we had to work with. ”
The meeting lasted about three hours, in which the 
entire council went through the document line by line, 
making revisions to specific line items and sharing 
their respective offices’ goals for the school year. 
The newly created Office of Health and Wellness 
was a point of interest for many A.S. Council members 
due to the initially low allocation in program 
funding. Associate Vice President Jonathan Slowey 
drafted the language to create the office two years 
ago while working in the Office of the President to 
institutionalize a way for students to be involved with 
health and wellness campaigns. 
“Since this is the first year, most of the efforts of 
the office will go towards building a foundation for the 
upcoming years, ” Slowey told the Guardian. “There are B y  Rebecca  chong    Senior staff writer CALIFORNIA
University Breaks Ground for New Science Building
The facility will cost a total of $111 million and is expected to reach completion in June 2018.See BUDGET , page 3
CAMPUS
By  m a r i a   s e b as
news editor
See DONATIONS , page 3CAMPUS
Maria  Sebas   msebas@ucsd.eduNumber of Refugees in Major California Counties 
Number of Refugees Resettled
Sacramento
Stanislaus
San Francisco
Contra Costa
Santa Clara
Fresno
San Bernardino
Riverside
Orange
Los Angeles
San Diego2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
 Data from California Department of 
Social Services ‘ Refugee Program
See complete story on page 2
0                   2k                4k                  6k                  8k                 10k                12k               14k2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 17, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
WED. OCT. 19 | DOORS: 7:00 PM | SHOW: 7:30 PM
Music. Spoken word. Rants.... Everything is welcome! Swing by The 
Loft to watch your fellow students perform! Interested in showing 
off your own talent? Check out our Facebook event page at “ASCE 
Presents: You at the Loft" for information on signing up!The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. Let’s do a feature on Gabe Schneider.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Caroline Lee
Marketing Director
Peter McInnis
Training and Development Manager
Allison Kubo
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Tina Butoiu
Jacky To
Marcus Thuillier
Maria Sebas
Lauren Holt
Quinn Pieper
Dev Jain
Oliver Kelton
Sam Velazquez
Naftali Burakovsky
Brittney Lu
Christian Duarte
Joselynn Ordaz
Aleya Zenieris
Kenji Bennett
Ayat Amin
Christina Carlson
Sophia Huang
Sage Schubert ChristianEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
 
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Multimedia Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editors
Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Aleya Zenieris, Quinn Pieper
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim, Alicia Ho, Lisa Chik
Editorial Assistants
Nathaniel Walker, Lisa Chik, Alex Wu, Miguel ShekerSan Diego Tops California Counties in Refugee Resettlement
Although the average county welcomed at most 300 refugees, San Diego, Los Angeles and Sacramento accepted over 900. SAN DIEGO
San Diego has been leading the state in refugee resettlement for the 
past seven years. During this time, San Diego County has taken more 
refugees than any other county in California despite the county’s 
small population relative to other counties across the state. Last year, San 
Diego took in 2,025 refugees, while the average county took no more 
than 300 refugees each, according to the California Department of Social 
Services. The two exceptions were Los Angeles County and Sacramento 
County, which took 1,682 and 993 refugees, respectively, last year. BY  a y a t   a m i n
Staff writer
ayat   a m i n    AAMIN@ucsd.edu
In August 2016, California accepted 1,425 refugees, double the amount 
from the previous month and nearly three times the monthly average of 
570 people per month. Again, San Diego broke its own record, taking 620 
refugees during that month, double the amount Los Angeles took. 
Despite the uptake in refugees, the United States still accepts fewer 
refugees than many other countries. As the New Y ork Times points out, 
Germany has taken over 90,000 more refugees from Syria than the United 
States as of 2015. 
However, it must be noted that Syrian refugees make a small percentage of refugees, both globally and in the United States. Syrians make up less 
than 2 percent of the total number of refugees admitted into the U.S in 
2015, while they make up 3.5 percent of the total refugee population 
in California, according to the New Y ork Times. The largest refugee 
populations in California originate from Iran at 35 percent and Iraq at 33 
percent. A significant number of those Iraqi refugees are in San Diego, 
specifically. The San Diego Tribune reports that an estimated 14,500 Iraqi 
refugees have been resettled in San Diego County since 2009.
According to the International Rescue Committee in San Diego, 
one of nine organizations responsible for resettling refugees in 
the county, refugees are commonly placed in a city where they 
have friends or relatives, or where there is already a strong and 
established community from their country of origin. However, 
the process for becoming a refugee considered for resettlement is 
difficult. Out of nearly 20,000 million refugees globally, less than 1 
percent are considered for resettlement and only a portion of that 1 
percent ends up in the United States. Data from U.S. 
Department 
of Health and 
Human Services 
Office of Refugee 
Resettlement
Weeklies  by Alex Lee
What Proportion of Refugees In America live in California?Where Refugees In California are from
IRAN 
IRAQ
BURMA
UKRAINE
SOMALIA
AFGHANISTANUSA
CALIFORNIAProportion of Refugees Resettled in California vs USA
AFGHANISTAN BURMA DEM. REP . CONGO IRAN IRAQ MOLDOVA SOMALIA SYRIA UKRAINE
Country of Origin for Refugees Resettledfor seniors, which will be housed 
in the emergency department of 
the forthcoming Jacobs Medical 
Center. The Gary and Mary West 
Senior Emergency Care Unit aims 
to enhance care for seniors while 
conducting medical research in 
partnership with the West Health 
Institute based in La Jolla. 
Endowed gifts totaled $39 
million, with over $7 million going 
toward the establishment of faculty 
chairs to help “recruit and retain 
stellar scholars, ” according to the 
press release. Richard and Carol 
Dean Hertzberg pledged $5 million 
to create a new Center for Climate 
Change Impacts and Adaptation at 
Scripps Institute of Oceanography, 
which included $1.5 million to 
establish the presidential chair for 
Climate Change Adaptation.
“We owe it to future generations 
to better understand the impacts 
of climate change, as well as to 
develop and implement strategies 
for adaptation, ” the Hertzbergs said 
in a joint statement. “Indeed, we 
believe this new Center will have a 
powerful impact locally, regionally, 
nationally and globally. ” 
In another environmentally-minded donation, Joy Frieman gave 
$2.5 million in honor of her late 
husband to fund the creation of 
the Edward A. Frieman Endowed 
Presidential Chair in Climate 
Sustainability. Edward Frieman, the 
director of the Scripps Institute of 
Oceanography from 1986 to 1996, 
served as a national advisor of defense, 
energy and science policy with the 
Carter and Reagan administrations. 
He died in 2013 at age 87.
Frieman’s donations include 
$500,000 toward a $2 million 
endowed postdoctoral fellowship 
and $500,000 toward a $1 million 
graduate fellowship at Scripps 
Institute of Oceanography. 
Donations totaled $16.8 million 
“to help UC San Diego Students, ” 
the press release stated, with a $4.3 
million bequest from Mary Andrews 
Haag intended to give undergraduates 
the opportunity to earn merit-based 
scholarships.
Alumni gave 12,837 gifts, 
donating a total of $4.8 million. dozens of student-based health and 
wellness organizations on campus [we 
will work with throughout the year as 
well as] doing research on student 
health insurance and student health 
resources on campus, mainly as a 
way to gauge usage, understanding, 
accessibility, and the flow of money. ”
Associate Vice President Omid 
Tabatabai of the Office of Spirit and 
Athletics explained that he hopes 
office will become an integral part of 
part of UCSD’s identity.
“The Division-I referendum 
certainly boosted morale not only 
in the athletes but in the students as 
well, ” Tabatabai told the Guardian. 
“I envision that athletics can take 
us to that next level where people 
will definitely know who we are as a 
school … being able to attach yourself 
to something so big and be proud 
of it definitely feels rewarding in 
itself, and I look to continue bringing 
that positive spirit and energy in 
everything I do at UCSD. ”
The Office of Equity, Diversity 
and Inclusion has seen a dramatic 
increase in staff in order to expand 
connections to various resource 
centers around campus and to give 
students the opportunity to attend 
the National Conference on Race 
& Ethnicity in American Higher Education. The Office’s Associate 
Vice President Minh-Hieu Vu 
reflected on the importance of growth 
in the context of the recent political 
dialogue surrounding diversity. 
“We’ve expanded this year in staff 
and funding because traditionally, 
issues of equity, diversity and 
inclusion are put on the back burner, ” 
Vu said to the Guardian. “Y et, as we 
have seen in this presidential election, 
marginalized communities are 
constantly under attack, and I believe 
there is an urgent responsibility to 
support underrepresented groups 
more than ever on our campus. ”
Other line items from the budget 
included permanent item initiative 
and the art initiative from the Office 
of Student Organizations. Associate 
Vice President Angie Aguilar 
elaborated on how the allocated funds 
will be used to create opportunities 
for art-based events that have not 
been possible due to restrictions of 
A.S. funding policies for items that 
cannot be used up at a single event 
(such as art supplies).
“The purpose of the art initiative 
would be to fund organizations 
wanting to host art-focused events. 
We’re envisioning an application 
where organizations will describe 
events that they would like to host 
for the rest of the year, along with a 
budget breakdown, but nothing is set in stone as of now, ” Aguilar told the 
Guardian. “This will just be a pilot 
program for now, but we are planning 
on suggesting our successors make 
it a permanent program when                 
the time comes. ”
Changes in this budget include 
the increase in A.S. senator 
stipends from $10 a week to $20, 
the collaboration of A.S. Safe Rides 
with Uber for subsidized rides, the 
increase in funding for the Office 
of Spirit and Athletics in light of 
the Division I referendum and the 
expansion of Triton Television and 
Triton Outfitters equipment. 
Pennish said this was the first 
time in several years that the A.S. 
budget has been at a surplus, which 
has opened up new opportunities to 
expand what AS can do to to improve 
our campus. 
“Because of [the increased 
pool of money], I was able to fully 
accommodate the budget request 
of each Associate Vice President 
office, as well as allocate funding 
to priorities such as the new A.S. 
Fellowship program, greater student 
organization funding [and] Triton 
Food Pantry expansion costs, among 
others, ” Pennish told the Guardian.NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 17, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
BEAR GARDEN
FREE FOR ALL UCSD UNDERGRADS
OCTOBER 21, 3-6 PM, MATTHEWS QUADFor more information, please contact ASCE at avpconcerts@ucsd.edu 
or (858) 534-0477.21+ bring valid government issued I.D. in addition to student I.D.Rebecca Chong   rcchong@ucsd.edu▶ BUDGET,  from page 1Pennish: Surplus Allows Council to Make Improvements to Campus
UCSDGUARDIAN. ORGCHEck  Us  out @▶ DONATIONS,  from page 1Alumni’s Donations Exceeded $4.5 Million
MA TTHEW  ZAMUDIO   M1ZAMUDI@ucsd.edu4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 17, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
QUINN PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
QUICK TAKESBY LEAKING INFORMATION RELATED TO EVERYTHING FROM MILITARY OPERATIONS IN GUANTANOMO BAY TO THE INNERWORKINGS OF THE DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL 
COMMITEE,  WIKILEAKS HAS BECOME A TOPIC OF CONTENTION. WHILE SOME VIEW IT AS A SOURCE OF TRANSPARENCY, OTHERS QUESTION ITS ETHICS.
By Failing to Deliver Full Context and Endangering 
Innocent Lives, WikiLeaks Fails to be TrustworthDespite Collateral Damage, WikiLeaks Challenges 
Governmental Secrecy with Necessary Transparency
The release of highly classified documents that endanger 
U.S civilians’ and soldiers’ lives overseas should never occur. 
In an NPR interview, former CIA field officer Robert Baer and 
Director of the National Security Archives Tom Blanton agreed 
that while the U.S. government should be more transparent 
with the public about its activities, the government has the right 
and the imperative to keep secret things that could jeopardize 
national security. In 2010, WikiLeaks released hundreds of 
thousands of cables from the U.S. State Department. Within the 
documents released were the names of Afghans who provided 
intelligence to the U.S. during the war in Afghanistan, as well 
as a road map to the American’s tactical procedures within 
the region. Not only did the release of information make U.S. 
soldiers and their operations vulnerable to attack, it made these 
Afghani informants face immense retaliation by the Taliban. 
The number of deaths and injuries resulting from this release is 
still unknown. 
Recently, WikiLeaks has been feeding the conspiracy 
surrounding Democratic presidential candidate, Hillary 
Clinton’s health. After a fall in early September, WikiLeaks 
posted and then deleted a poll on Twitter asking its followers 
to speculate the cause of Clinton’s fall. The poll speculated that 
the former secretary of state had Parkinson’s disease or multiple 
sclerosis. Clinton later revealed that she was only dealing with a 
minor case of pneumonia. 
The problem with WikiLeaks is that its release of information 
causes many viewers to take information out of context, 
which then spreads across social media. Besides spreading 
dangerous information that puts the lives of Americans both 
here and abroad at risk, WikiLeaks produces information that 
is downright false. Assange’s personal vendetta against U.S. 
government officials (including Clinton) and quest to engage in 
petty politics does not make the site the noble whistleblowing 
source it claims to be. It makes it shoddy journalism.
             — MEGAN MONGES
Senior Staff WriterWikiLeaks isn’t perfect, and at times, its mistakes have resulted in 
adverse and even fatal consequences. However, what it has done to 
force governmental transparency in the U.S. is a priceless gain for a 
stumbling democracy.
Some of the most revealing information from WikiLeaks came 
in 2007 when the outlet gave the public access to the U.S. Army’s 
“Standard Operating Procedures for Camp Delta, ” i.e. its manual for 
treating, or mistreating, Guantanamo Bay prisoners. The guidelines, all 
of which are completely official, stated that an inmate could be denied 
access to Red Cross for up to four weeks. Furthermore, prisoners could 
earn “special rewards” for good behavior or cooperation, one of which 
was a roll of toilet paper. Though some argue this merely stated what 
we already knew, anyone accused of conspiracy theorizing knows that 
having access to clear-cut evidence makes all the difference.
A less damning, but still politically telling, information leak 
recently involved the release of emails sent and received by John 
Podesta, the chairman of Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential 
campaign. Among them were excerpts from the candidate’s paid 
speeches to Wall Street firms, one of which had Clinton stating, “you 
need both a public and a private position. ” In response, Clinton’s 
campaign spokesman Glen Caplin said, “WikiLeaks is proving [it 
is] nothing but a propaganda arm of the Kremlin with a political 
agenda doing [Vladimir] Putin’s dirty work to help elect Donald 
Trump. ” Such a hyperbolic condemnation indicates how much our 
government considers WikiLeaks an enemy to its status quo of 
secrecy, an exclusionary system that prevents citizens from really 
knowing the officials they elect.
Though a denouncement from the government — the natural 
enemy of transparency — is unsurprising, any outside supporter of 
democracy should be behind the mission of WikiLeaks. Indeed, we 
should continue to criticize and hold it accountable for releasing 
damaging information, such as the Afghan War Diary, but its presence 
serves as a necessary counterforce to what is otherwise an extremely 
private government.
                                 — JACKY TO
                             Staff Writer
With the recent outrage due to an episode of “W atters’ World, ” a segment on “The 
O’Reilly Factor, ” a conversation of Asian-American discrimination has been ignited. 
These are just two of the many incidents that highlight the ways in which Asian-
Americans are made to feel like outsiders, unwelcome in a country some were born in 
and know as home. 
The fact that Fox News thought the “W atters’ World” segment was appropriate to 
air illustrates a prevailing — albeit largely hidden — mentality surrounding Asian-
Americans. Beginning with a seemingly innocent task of interviewing Chinese-
Americans in Chinatown to get their opinions on the numerous mentions of China 
during the presidential debates, the interviews — if you can even call them that — soon 
devolved into a reiteration of numerous Asian stereotypes. As “The Daily Show” 
correspondent Ronny Chieng points out, Jesse W atters doesn’t even bother with 
using the correct Chinese stereotypes. W atters, the face behind “W atters’ World, ” asks 
Chinese residents if they know karate, a Japanese martial arts form, and uses footage of 
him in a taekwondo studio, a South Korean martial arts form. A South Korean flag is 
seen quite clearly in the background of the footage from the taekwondo studio, which 
somehow went unnoticed by the entire staff at “The O’Reilly Factor. ” Beyond melding various Asian cultures into one foreign fascination, Jesse Watters also targeted elderly 
Chinese residents who didn’t speak English and mocked their silence with added 
cricket sound bites. He acknowledged that they were “such a polite people, ” yet, despite 
all their politeness and civility, Watters and O’Reilly thought it was appropriate to 
demean and mock both Chinese culture and Chinese people living in the United States. 
The consequences of such negative portrayals are still persistent, even if they’re 
disguised as cultural fascination. Recently, Michael Luo, an editor at The New Y ork 
Times, published a piece about a time when he was told to “Go back to China...Go 
back to your f—cking country, ” by a woman on the streets of New Y ork City. After 
witnessing the entire incident, Luo’s seven-year-old daughter asked her mother, “Why 
did she say, ‘Go back to China?’ We’re not from China. ” Despite being an American-
born citizen, a Harvard University graduate and a journalist, he is still subject to the 
same racism his immigrant parents would more typically face. No matter how much 
success is achieved nor how much Asian-Americans accept American society as their 
own, they are never made to feel that they truly belong here. 
Asian-Americans also face an uphill battle when it comes to representation within 
media and Hollywood. Although most would argue that blatant racist portrayals By mocking Chinese culture and Chinese residents in a segment 
intended to be “good fun,” “The O’Reilly Factor” recently 
perpetuated the everyday stereotypes Asian-Americans face.
GOOD 
FUN
 FOR 
WHOM?
See ASIAN-AMERICAN , page 5GO BACK TO YOUR 
COUNTRY!
BY ALEXANDER CHEN  // STAFF WRITER
ILLUSTRATION BY CHRISTINA CARLSON
WIKILEAKS 
THROUGH 
THE YEARS
November 7,
2007
release of 
guant anamo ba y 
opera tions 
manualOctober 4, 
2006
WIKILEAK S 
BEGINS
JUL Y 25,  2010
over 90,000 
classified 
afghan w ar 
documents leakedSEPTEMBER 11, 
2016
WIKILEAK S' twitter 
account POSTS 
poll asking 
FOLLOWERS  TO 
DIAGNOSE  HILLAR Y 
CLINTON's HEAL TH 
PROBLEMSOCTOBER 7,  2016
EXCERPTS  FROM  
CLINTONS'  SPEECHES 
TO W ALL STREET  FIRMS 
published onlineOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 17, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
FALL 2016
M: 9am-1pm
TuTh: 11am-3pm
W: 10am-2pm
F: 9am-2pmAT THE ORIGINAL STUDENT CENTERHOURSare a relic of older, less civilized 
times, examples such as Chris Rock 
mocking three young Asian children 
at the Oscars prove otherwise. Less 
blatant examples range from casting 
white actors and actresses as Asian 
characters and a lack of casting 
Asian-Americans in general. Ken 
Jeong, a prominent Asian-American 
actor, writes: “Out of 409 scripted 
shows, four have Asian-American 
leads. ” With less than one-
percent representation on TV , it is 
unsurprising that racist stereotypes 
continue to be perpetuated. Hiring 
more Asian-Americans actors and 
actresses has been, and still is, a 
much-needed first step to countering 
the negative stereotypes Americans have of Asians.
Seldom does the thought of Asian-
Americans and their experiences 
come to mind when discussing 
racism and discrimination in today’s 
society. Perhaps because, as Luo puts 
it, “we’re generally not outspoken. ” 
This silence shields the experiences 
that many Asian-Americans 
face on a daily basis from public 
knowledge. It’s difficult for even 
Asian-Americans born in the U.S. 
to identify as a “true” American 
when constantly reminded that their 
parents are from different countries 
and heritages. The oft-posed question 
of “Where are you from?” usually 
carries the expectation of somewhere 
exotic, and an answer naming a plain 
American city often prompts the 
question again: “But where are you really from?” This insistence that, 
despite having been born and raised 
in the U.S., one is still a foreigner is 
just one of the many ways Asian-
Americans are made to feel out of 
place within our society. 
These instances clearly exemplify 
the anti-Asian sentiment still 
persisting in America. Asian-
Americans and their allies must 
continue to loudly criticize such 
outdated portrayals of Asians in 
media and the xenophobia waged 
against Asians in daily life. Those 
behind the content, like Watters and 
O’Reilly, need to be held accountable 
for their carelessness and lack of 
social empathy.▶ ASIAN-AMERICAN  from page 4WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
LIKE US ON
 FACEBOOK
ALEXANDER  CHENfacebook.com/ucsdguardian
ALC129@UCSD.EDU6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 17, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
OLIVER KEL TON
features@ucsdguardian.org
A certain kind of energy fills the air. In the bathroom just outside The Loft, a young performer can be heard in a 
toilet stall nervously practicing his lines, waiting for his moment on stage to come. Inside The Loft, the show is slowly 
starting up; we may be at UCSD, but with the DJ playing beats from classics like “California Love, ” the atmosphere 
recalls the West Coast hip-hop scene in the 1990s. Onstage the MCs, looking no different from your typical fresh-faced 
UCSD undergrad, bust rhymes with such confidence and fluidity that you feel hesitant to call them amateurs. What’s 
most amazing is that no planning goes into much of what they perform — what we are seeing is true freestyle rap.
This is Welcome Back Cypher, the first show of the year for Shots Fired, a battle rap group dedicated to bringing hip-
hop culture to UCSD — or, as they would put it, “Make UCSD lit again. ” When we approached a few of the rappers after 
the show to schedule interviews for the next day, they wouldn’t have it; they insisted that we do it right then and there 
while the feeling of the moment was still alive. The enthusiasm and candor they display when they rap shined through 
in their interviews. Rarely did they punctuate their straightforward, profanity-laced statements with an “um” — they 
answered each question with so much ease that it seemed like they knew them in advance.
The Origin
To tell the story of Shots Fired we need to look beyond the history of the organization itself; we need to look back to 
the members’ childhoods when they all, one way or another, discovered hip-hop. For Thurgood Marshall College senior 
Matt Kucirek (“K Philosophy”), hip-hop called to him — profanity and all — at an incredibly young age.
“It’s just what I listened to growing up, ” Kucirek told the UCSD Guardian. “I remember I was like four, five years old 
maybe and Get Rich or Die Tryin’ came out. I used to live in El Cajon, and I went to The Warehouse in El Cajon, which 
is the CD store, and I remember I wanted to buy Get Rich or Die Tryin’ . The motherfuckers wouldn’t let me buy Get Rich 
or Die Tryin’; my mom had to be there. So I remember getting my mom — she’s in the car, I didn’t walk to the fucking 
Warehouse — and I’m like ‘Mom, you need to be here for me to buy this. ’ She’s like, ‘It says explicit content, ’ and I ask, 
‘What does that mean?’ She goes, ‘It means they say bitches and hoes and stuff like that. ’”
As the years went by, Kucirek kept listening to rap, finding it a useful outlet for what he felt.
“I felt it released the emotions that I had inside of me, you know, as a pent up, angry little white kid, ” he remarked.
He began writing his own lyrics at the early age of eight and then, after four years in which he barely listened to hip-
hop, a friend challenged him to a rap battle and his connection to hip-hop culture became “a done deal. ”
Similarly, Ryan Perez, a 27-year-old recent graduate of UCSD who still participates in Shots Fired, was thrown into 
the world of hip-hop early in life due to its constant presence in the world around him. According to Perez, growing up 
in the Los Angeles area in the ‘90s meant that getting into hip-hop was hardly a choice.
“I grew up in LA in the ‘90s, so it was impossible not to — I live literally like 15 minutes away from Compton where 
NW A dropped, and The Chronic and The Chronic 2001 … and Long Beach was right down the road with Snoop Dogg, ” 
Perez told the Guardian. “Pretty much the epicenter of West Coast hip-hop happened in my backyard, and so it was 
kind of hard not to be influenced by it. ”
Having two musicians as brothers gave further encouraged Perez to get into making music. Over the years he has 
learned to play a wide variety of instruments, from drums to guitar to even the trumpet (though admittedly not very 
well). Ultimately, though, he found his calling in hip-hop, an art form where he says he could find “my own voice, my 
own style, things that I wanted to talk about. ”
As a young artist Perez also found inspiration in the emotional turmoil he sometimes went through, particularly after 
the death of his father which left him “an angry child” who turned to writing and poetry as a way to vent his feelings.
“So I picked up writing really young too, ” Perez said, laughing. “I remember writing these long, long songs and poems 
in like the eighth grade, like the weirdest shit. I still have the notebooks, I go back and read them sometimes — it’s the 
weirdest shit. But over time my style developed, and I met people that encouraged me and told me that I could be good 
at it, and I started putting out my own music. ”Shots  Fired   ucsd's  rap  ba ttle  scene :
Standing in contrast to UCSD’s stereotypically straight-laced culture, Shots Fired brings a slice of the 
authentic battle rap scene to campus. The UCSD Guardian managed to secure an interview with three of 
these unique performers, in which they each gave us no-holds-barred answers about what drew them to 
hip-hop and what it means to be an MC.
By Oliver Kelton // Features Editor
See SHOTS FIRED , page 8**Warning: article contains strong language.
Illustration by Christina CarlsonFEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 17, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
COME KICK-OFF CONSTRUCTION  
ON THE MID-COAST TROLLEY PROJECT!
FREE FAMILY  
PICNIC  SATURDAY  
OCTOBER 22
Celebrate the start of construction and learn about the new    
Mid-Coast Trolley that will bring you from Old Town to UC          
San Diego and University City.  FREE T_-SHIRT  &  GIVEA W A YS   FREE FOOD   
FAMIL Y FUN   LIVE MUSIC*&
. Enjoy kebabs, kettle corn 
and cupcakes
. Sip Hubert’s Lemonade
. Dance along with Pop Vinyl
. Visit the henna and face 
painter artists
. Make “Rad Hatter” crafts
. Kids eye testing and  
health screenings
PREUSS SCHOOL UCSD FIELD  
3750 VOIGT DRIVE  
11 AM  - 3 PM
TAKE MTS SUPERLOOP RAPID !
KeepSanDiegoMoving.com/MidCoast
#GoMidCoast  
PLENTY OF FREE PARKING!
Please leave your pets at home
*While supplies last
DO YOU TWEET? WE DO!
@UCSDGua rdianFor the past several years, the 
news has been flooded with the 
recurring issue of sexual assault on 
college campuses. Cases like People 
v. Turner, in which Stanford athlete 
Brock Allen Turner was found 
guilty of having intercourse with an 
intoxicated and unconscious female 
student at a party, have brought the 
issue of sexual assault further into the 
public eye. As it stands, 23.1 percent 
of undergraduate female students 
experience rape or sexual assault 
through physical force, violence or 
incapacitation. A study was also 
conducted projecting that nearly five 
percent of college women become 
victims of sexual assault during any 
given calendar year. 
Laura Palumbo, the 
communications director at the 
National Sexual Violence Research 
Center, is working to reduce the 
number of these incidents.The 
nonprofit organization provides 
information and tools to colleges 
and other organizations throughout 
the nation to respond to sexual 
violence. NSVRC works to prevent 
sexual assault through education 
as well as by supporting treatment 
organizations for victims. The 
site also publishes research and 
informative articles regarding assault, 
many include the dangers of an 
institution’s campus climate. Palumbo 
believes that one of the most 
significant issues standing in the way 
of progress is the social perspective 
on sexual assault, often defined as 
“rape culture.” Despite the growing 
conversation around the topic, there 
is still room for improvement.  
“We have seen a lot of increased 
attention to the issue of sexual assault, 
and it’s a very positive change, “ 
Palumbo told the UCSD Guardian. 
“Sexual assault is becoming more 
broadly understood as a serious and 
widespread problem, but there’s still a 
lot of work to be done. ”
Palumbo realizes that problems 
like these cannot be solved until 
people are thoroughly educated and 
understand the issue.
“We are talking about assault 
more now, but in the past, college 
campuses were an environment 
where there really wasn’t a lot of 
information about consent and 
healthy sexuality, ” Palumbo said.
Sexual consent is one issue that 
many seem to have trouble defining. 
Regarding the topic, Palumbo sets 
the record straight, stating that, “Y ou 
always own your consent … it can be 
withdrawn at any time. A person can 
have consented to acts in the past or 
give consent and then change their 
mind. When there is any force or 
coercion, there cannot be consent. ” 
Palumbo went on also to address 
the far-too-frequent issue of “victim 
blaming, ” the tendency to hold 
the victim of the sexual violence 
responsible for putting themselves 
in the situation that leads to their 
subsequent assault.  
“Victims are never to blame, ” 
she told the Guardian. “When 
communities are misinformed 
they often respond to victims in 
a way that causes shame, fear and 
humiliation. This makes it harder 
for victims to come forward and further perpetuates the issue of sexual 
violence. ” 
In fact, more than 90 percent 
of sexual assault incidents are not 
reported. 
“There are many roles that 
individuals play in creating a safe 
environment, ” Palumbo said. 
“Its needs to be something that 
administrators, professors, staff and 
students are all involved in. ”
She continued, commenting on 
the changes she’s observed on some 
college campuses.  
“ A lot of campuses have been 
looking through their policies, 
making sure their policy is conducive 
to creating an environment that is 
as safe as possible, ” Palumbo said. 
“Other campuses are bringing in 
more prevention programming. ”
Here at UCSD, students can 
take advantage of the CARE office, 
located at the Sexual Assault Resource 
Center. The office provides “violence 
prevention education for the entire 
UCSD campus and offers free and 
confidential services for students, 
staff and faculty impacted by 
sexual assault, relationship violence 
and stalking. ” The CARE website 
also provides a list of definitions 
concerning assault, outlets for 
reporting incidents and self-defense 
courses. Also provided is an 
intervention model where students 
can learn how to be an active witness. 
The office is located on the fifth 
floor of the Student Services Center; 
students can find ways to volunteer 
and get involved through its website.
Palumbo has seen the potential 
that the student body itself can have 
when combating this issue as well. 
“In terms of student-led efforts, 
we’ve seen a variety of ways that 
students have gotten involved with 
their campus culture, whether that 
be challenging their administration, 
hosting their own events, the ways 
students are using the newspaper, and 
other outlets, ” Palumbo stated.
Above all, Palumbo stresses the 
effect one can have by merely taking 
action on an individual level by being 
an active witness and participating in 
positive change.
“On an individual level, you 
can’t in any way underestimate your 
role in being an influence on your 
own campus, ” Palumbo said. “If you 
hear someone saying something 
offensive, sexist or oppressive, 
they’re a part of the campus culture. 
When you challenge these things, 
when you’re supportive of your 
friends and classmates, you’re 
helping to set the tone of your 
campus that helps make it a safer 
place. ”
If you want to get involved with 
helping address the issue of sexual 
assault, Palumbo recommends 
visiting sites like Itsonus.org, 
endrapeoncampus.org, and 
knowyourIX.org.
More information about the 
National Sexual Violence Research 
Center can be found at NSRVC.org.
A publication regarding sexual 
consent and what it means to be 
consenting can be found on their 
website and at www.nsrvc.org/
publications/its-time-to-talk-about-
consent.Confronting  
Sexual  Assaul t  
on  Campus
Sexual assault on college campuses has been the subject of intense 
debate for several years now. Laura Palumbo of the National 
Sexual Violence Research Center spoke with the UCSD Guardian 
about what can be done to combat this ongoing problem.
BY  H a r r i s o n   L e e
staff writer
Harrison  Lee   hhl032@ucsd,edu8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 17, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
Keeping the Passion Alive
The common thread that drew these two young musicians together at UCSD was their desire to continue making music even after they came to college, a time 
in their lives when many other young people tend to forget their earlier creative pursuits to focus on a more “serious” career. This is what inspired the birth of 
Shots Fired three years ago, when Matt Kucirek and his longtime friend José Gonzalez (“Griffin”), by then battle-hardened veterans of the rap scene, began their 
first years at UCSD. Soon after moving to campus, Kucirek and Gonzalez learned that students could easily create their own organizations and realized that they 
could take advantage of this to create an outlet for their longtime passion.
“Wow, this shit doesn’t seem that hard, ” Kucirek recalls thinking. “I gotta fill out some paperwork and that’s it, are you fucking kidding me? Free venues and all 
this shit? So I was like, ‘Y ou know what dude, we’re gonna make our own battle league, fuck the bullshit. We know we’re better than half those people out there, we 
know there [are] people here who are better than half those people out there. ’”
The duo went about promoting their fledgling group throughout campus. Their early techniques for recruitment were, by their own admission, naive, but bold 
enough to attract attention.
“We went to Geisel and printed out a bunch of fliers with the ‘8 Mile’ photo on it and phone numbers that basically said, ‘If you wanna rap, call this number, ’” 
Kucirek recalled. “That’s pretty much how it worked, and then people called us — surprisingly enough, we had enough people call us. ”
The upstarts soon had their first show planned at Price Center Theater. This initial show underwhelmed their expectations, as the audience had not yet warmed 
up to the kind of frenetic energy that comes with battle rap performances. “The fuckers sat down, it was terrible, ” Kucirek quipped.
“Whenever you’re in front of  people no one knows what you have planned to say — not a single person 
knows what you have planned to say — so when you fuck up just keep going.”
- Ma tthew  Kucirek
Still, that first performance in Fall Quarter 2013 proved to be the start of a long series of gritty, high-energy shows and the creation of a vibrant hip-hop 
community made up of several passionate individuals. They have gone on to perform at most venues on campus, ranging from Outback Adventures Surf Shop to 
Porter’s Pub, which is where Perez discovered the group. Perez, then a sophomore working at Porter’s, had thought his involvement in hip-hop was through until 
he found Shots Fired.
“I met these young men right here who were trying to bring hip-hop culture, and it revived instantly, ” Perez said. “The first time K and me were freestyling 
together we were finishing each other’s rhymes — like, not knowing each other, just finishing each other’s bars, just in sync. After that night I was just like ‘These 
are gonna be my homies here, ’ and that’s pretty much been going on ever since. ”
The up-and-coming org also piqued interest in people who previously hadn’t been very involved in the hip-hop community. Marshall junior D’ante Harper 
(“Tay Dot”) recalled discovering the group not at a performance but at a casual rap circle.
 “I actually met them by the Triton statue, ” Harper said. “They had a little rap circle going, and it was a group of us just freestyling and whatnot and some 
dude making beatbox — it was fucking dope. ” 
 Harper initially got interested in battle rap from videos on Y outube before getting involved in the scene with Shots Fired.
 “ And I got to here, and I got into battle rap, and I started watching that on Y outube — my brother showed me — and I was like, ‘That was awesome. ’ 
Because it was like ‘8 Mile’ in the flesh, like a real-life movie, I was like ‘ Aw, that’s dope, I wanna do that on the West Coast. ’”
“It was like 8 Mile in the flesh, like a real-life movie. I was like ‘Aw, that’s dope, I wanna do that on 
the West Coast.’”
- D'ante  Harper
Being an MC
What stands out to anyone who attends a Shots Fired event is, as mentioned before, the members’ ability to freestyle, something they take great pride in.
“In my opinion, if you can’t freestyle, don’t tell me you’re an MC, ” Kucirek opined. “Y ou can say you’re a rapper, that’s all fine and dandy, but for me it’s just — if I 
wanted to be an MC, if I wanted to be in the culture, you have to know how to spit right from off the top of the dome or else you ain’t shit. It’s that simple. ”
Being able to come up with verses is not an easy task, admits Harper.
“Coming from someone who doesn’t freestyle, I’ve freestyled like four or five hours with them — that’s it — everything I do comes in the moment. Like, I write 
it down, and I just say it until I memorize it. I just repeat it, repeat it, repeat it like it’s a song. And it just works after a while, but the freestyle thing doesn’t just come 
as easy to me because my brain just doesn’t work like that, just connecting that quickly. ”
For anyone daunted by the idea of freestyling, Kucirek and Perez have plenty of advice.
“Whenever you’re in front of people no one knows what you have planned to say — not a single person knows what you have planned to say — so when you fuck 
up just keep going, ” advised Kucirek. “ As soon as you stop people know you’ve fucked up. Otherwise, ‘That’s what I was supposed to do, what do you mean? Wanna 
see my notebook?’ That’s what I would say about people who fucking get worried about slipping up and shit: don’t. No one looks at your notebook. ”
Perez takes another approach to the issue, noting that a lot of practice and thought can make you a better MC.
“I would say, first of all, not everything is off the cuff, I know for a fact that people prewrite things and kind of have them in their back pocket so when they need 
them, it’s like a repertoire, they have something to go to, ” Perez said. “Like, they’ve said the same two words and they know those rhyme, so the more you do it the 
more you have tools; you have a toolbox. ”
Though the group does have its devoted members, they go out of their way to get newcomers involved at their shows, and they do continuously get a plethora 
of nonmembers to take the stage, some being seasoned MCs and others being novices who just want to give it a shot. Anyone with the courage to jump onstage and 
rap is welcome to take the microphone — in fact, Kucirek demands it.
“Raise your hand if you’re down to come up on this stage and rap right now, ” Kucirek shouted in the middle of the performance at The Loft.
Several hands shot up, and the stage was soon flooded by students of all types. They freestyled about a number of things that mattered to them, from the state of 
American politics to the struggles of being an engineering student at UCSD.
“A s  l o n g  a s  y o u  h a v e  f u n  —  t h a t ’s  w h a t  w e’r e  h e r e  f o r,”  s h o u t e d  o n e  M C  a s  h e  e n c o u r a g e d  a s p i r i n g  r a p p e r s  t o  c o m e  t o  t h e  s t a g e .
What the Future Holds
Though all three members are heavily invested in hip-hop as a form of expression and a way of life, they are, like the rest of us, students at UCSD, working toward 
completing majors that sometimes have little to do with the culture that they have come to cherish. Kucirek, for example, is studying applied mathematics, a major 
that he chose because of a math teacher who, as he puts it, “was the only one who didn’t seem like he hated his fucking job. He seemed happy. ”
Looking forward, however, he seems to give little thought to making a career out of his major; instead, he seems drawn to continuing a career in hip-hop. He 
proudly tells us that he has an upcoming gig in Las Vegas, and that other members of Shots Fired have performed all over California, from Orange County to Fresno. 
Encouraged by these successes, he hopes to make a true career out of what is clearly his greatest passion.
 “Because of Shots Fired we’ve had people go places, so hopefully that’s something I can always have in my life, something I can turn into a business, 
something I can do for money, ” Kucirek said. “ And if not, it’s always gonna be that when the homies come through there’s gonna be a session. ”
“When you have a tattoo, you kind of have to be committed to this. It’s kinda going to be 
my thing forever.”
- r y an  perez
Harper, who majors in creative writing, is somewhat different in that he does find a connection between his major and his passion for hip-hop. However, while 
he plans on staying involved with Shots Fired for a long time, he is not so sure he wants to pursue hip-hop as a career.
“ As far as ‘ Am I gonna be actively performing?’ and all that, I don’t know because I’m a creative writing major, and I’m planning on writing books and movie 
scripts and stuff like that. So I might not necessarily have time, but if I can make time that would be the thing I plan to do. ”
Perez, who currently works for University Centers advising A.S. services, can’t see how his relationship with hip-hop and music in general can ever end, come 
what may.
 “When I came to school here I pretty much thought I was done with music and that did not happen; if anything I’m even more involved now, ” Perez 
observed. “I’m pretty much positive that I don’t think I could live without doing something with hip-hop. Like, I have a studio at my mom’s house back in LA, 
which is gonna be my house one day, so I’m always gonna have a studio. I know a shitload of musicians who are like professional musicians, they get paid to play 
music so I know I’m always gonna have musicians around. And if these fools keep rapping these guys are gonna be around, so I mean five years, ten years, it’s all 
the same. I’m gonna be doing something. I’ve performed at festivals and fairs back home, and bars and clubs where nobody’s there and I love that, so I don’t see 
why I would stop. When you have a tattoo, you kind of have to be committed to this. It’s kinda going to be my thing forever. ”▶ SHOTS FIRED,  from page 6
Oliver  kel ton    okelton@ucsd,eduCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 17, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
COMEDY NIGHTJUSTIN WILLMAN WITH
 PRICE CENTER BALLROOM WEST TahrirWEEKTHISat UC SAN DIEGO
OCT 17 - OCT 232016POWERED BY THE 
STUDENT EVENTS INSIDER
AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
MON 10.17 WED10.19FRI10.21  • 7:30pm
THU10.20
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guardian
Calenda r
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdg uardian.orgTUE10.18
FRI10.2110am
YOGA ZONE - THE ZONE, PC 
PLAZA
Come to this deep stretch class and let go. Using 
props like blocks, straps, yoga therapy balls, this 
class can incorporate myofascial or other 
techniques to release stress or tension from the 
body. Led by FitLife instructor Jennie Olson Six. 
Yoga classes are free; blocks and yoga mats. 
Space is limited and is first come, first served. 
Contact: zone@ucsd.edu (858)534-5553
3:30pm
ALTERNATIVE BREAKS@UCSD 
RECRUITMENT INFO SESSIONS - 
MULTIPLE LOCATIONS (SEE EVENT 
DETAILS)
If you've ever been interested in joining 
Alternative Breaks@UCSD, come to one of our info 
sessions! All information can be found on our 
website abatucsd.org. There you will learn about 
our mission and vision, our core values and some 
of the social justice issues you could become 
involved with this upcoming year. Attending an 
info session is mandatory to apply. Come out to 
our TRIP REVEAL on October 19 from 6 - 10 pm at 
Asante-AD, the classrooms under I-House. 
Contact: rcchong@ucsd.edu
5pm
REVELLE IN ROME GLOBAL 
SEMINAR INFO SESSION - REVELLE 
FORMAL LOUNGE
Need to fulfill your Revelle Humanities GE 
Requirements? Consider Studying Abroad this 
summer in Rome! Meet Professor Stephanie Jed 
and learn about the courses and excursions for 
the Revelle in Rome Global Seminar. We will also 
discuss financial aid, scholarships, and the 
application process. See Contact: 
lobalseminar@ucsd.edu11am
STUDY ABROAD EXPO FAIR - 
PRICE CENTER BALLROOM WEST
Visit the largest Study Abroad Fair at UCSD to 
learn how you can make your global adventure 
happen. Representatives from international 
study, work, volunteer and internship programs 
will be on hand to answer questions and 
provide information on exciting opportunities all 
around the world. No matter your major, you can 
study abroad at UCSD. Pick your country, grab 
your passport, and embark on an adventure of a 
lifetime! Contact: jminert@ucsd.edu
7pm
ASCE PRESENTS: YOU AT THE 
LOFT - THE LOFT, PC EAST 
Music. Spoken word. Rants... everything is 
welcome! Take the stage and share your talent 
with us at You at the Loft! Not a performer? 
Come on by and enjoy some great performances 
by fellow students. If you're interested in 
performing, sign up here: Contact: 
ascemarketing@ucsd.edu 8:30am
CENTER FOR AIDS RESEARCH 
DAY - MEDICAL EDUCATION 
AND TELEMEDICINE BUILDING
Come meet international researchers as they 
present work from projects funded through the 
UCSD Center For AIDS Research. Lunch is 
included and registration is free. Click on link to 
find more information including registration. 
Contact: kschafer@ucsd.edu
4pm
INSIDE INNOVATION: 
PRADIPTA GHOSH - ROTH 
AUDITORIUM, SANFORD 
CONSORTIUM
Pradipta Ghosh is a Professor of Medicine and 
Cellular & Molecular Medicine in the School of 
Medicine at UC San Diego and will present "The 
Herculean Task of Killing Cancer Cells: Spare the 
heads of the Hydra; strike the heart".  Inside 
Innovation is a presentation series featuring the 
latest innovative technologies developed by UC 
San Diego researchers. Get an inside look at 
what is happening in the labs, explore 
commercialization opportunities and inquire 
about licensing. Contact: invent@ucsd.edu
5pm
JAZZ IN PARIS GLOBAL 
SEMINAR INFO SESSION - 
THURGOOD MARSHALL 
COLLEGE PROVOST'S 
CONFERENCE ROOM 
Meet Professor Cecil Lytle and learn about the 
courses and excursions for the Jazz in Paris 
Global Seminar. We will also discuss financial 
aid, scholarships, and the application process.  
See Contact: globalseminar@ucsd.edu
11:45am
ENTREPRENEURS BOOTCAMP - 
MEDICAL EDUCATION AND 
TELEMEDICINE BUILDING
Introducing the Technology & Life Sciences 
Entrepreneurs Workshop, a program designed for 
those in the process of or considering starting a 
new venture. Get practical information on the 
legal and business issues facing today's 
entrepreneurs. Medical Education and 
Telemedicine Building, LC 143 and 145. Contact: 
invent@ucsd.edu
5pm
STUDY ABROAD: ENGINEERING 
- STUDY ABROAD OFFICE
Overview of programs that are ideal for 
Engineering majors.Contact: jminert@ucsd.edu
5pm
ATHENS GLOBAL SEMINAR 
INFO SESSION - MCGILL HALL 
ROOM 1350
Meet Professor Stephan Anagnostaras and learn 
about the courses and excursions for the Drugs, 
Behavior, and the History of Neuroscience in 
Greece Global Seminar. We will also discuss 
financial aid, scholarships, and the application 
process. Contact: globalseminar@ucsd.edu5pm
IDEAS EVENT: MEASURING THE 
DREAM - ATKINSON HALL
In the 2016-2017 season of the Initiative for 
Digital Exploration of Arts and Sciences (IDEAS), 
three artists present Measuring the Dream in the 
Calit2 Theater, Atkinson Hall. The three include 
production designer and UC San Diego design 
faculty member Victoria Petrovich, UC San Diego 
dance faculty member Yolande Snaith as artistic 
director and choreographer, and UC San Diego 
Ph.D. student and composer Ryan Welsh. 
Contact: tstone@ucsd.edu 858-822-5307
6pm
UCSD MEN'S WATER POLO V.S. 
CONCORDIA - CANYONVIEW 
AQUATIC CENTER
Come out and watch your UCSD Men's Water Polo 
team battle against Concordia! Contact: 
tritonfrontdesk@ucsd.edu
7pm
VILLAGE UNDER THE STARS; 
OUTDOOR LOCAL MUSIC 
FESTIVAL - VILLAGE WEST 
LAWN
The Village after Dark series presents it's very 
own outdoor music festival showcasing local 
musicians such as Keith Harkin, The Hous Band, 
and the Geezer Band which plays tribute to old 
school bands such as Beastie Boys and Weezer. 
This show is open to all students and free of 
charge! Contact: seberry@ucsd.edu3pm
ASCE PRESENTS: BEAR GARDEN - 
MATTHEWS QUAD 
Our first Bear Garden of the new school year is 
finally here! Come celebrate with us and play 
games, win prizes and eat some free food! FREE 
for ALL UCSD Undergrad with valid Student ID! 
ALL AGES / 21+ must bring valid government ID. 
Limited capacity. First come, first serve. Line up 
early to guarantee entry. Contact: 
ascemarketing@ucsd.edu 8583545911
7pm
UCSD WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL V.S. 
HUMBOLDT STATE - UCSD RIMAC 
ARENA
Come out and watch your UCSD Women's 
Volleyball team battle against Humboldt State! 
Contact: tritonfrontdesk@ucsd.edu
7pm
UNIVERSITY CENTERS PRESENTS: 
FINDING DORY - PRICE CENTER 
THEATER
On October 21st at the Price Center Theater, 
University Centers presents a FREE screening of 
"Finding Dory" -- return with Pixar to a world 
beneath the sea as Dory journeys to find her 
long-lost family. DOORS: 6:30 / SHOW: 7PM 
Contact: ucenmarketing@ucsd.edu (858) 
246-1601
7:30pm
ASCE & FAMILY WEEKEND 
PRESENTS: COMEDY NIGHT - 
PRICE CENTER BALLROOM WEST 
Justin Willman is returning to UC San Diego on 
Friday, October 21st! Join UCSD AS Concerts & 
Events for Comedy Night 2016. Justin Willman is a 
magician & comedian known for his regular 
appearances on The Tonight Show, Ellen, Conan, 
Food Network and @midnight. His debut 
comedy/magic special Sleight of Mouth premiered 
earlier this year on Comedy Central to rave 
reviews. Justine Marin discovered her love for 
comedy after taking an improv class at The 
Groundlings.  Contact: ascemarketing@ucsd.edu 
8583545911
10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 17, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDSGuardian Classifieds are FREE for the UC San Diego community.
 www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedscrossword
Across
1. Out of whack
6. It ends some lists
10. Pogs and Furbys, for two
14. Deluded
15. Paddock parent
16. Teen fave
17. What’s worn in October
19. Glowing review
20. Ill temper
21. Staff symbol
22. Hightailed it
24. Anvil or stirrup
26. Mars and Pluto
27. Merkel of film
28. Made
32. En __
35. Takes to court
36. Tiny opening
37. ‘’Height’’ word form
38. Mall binge
39. __ and proper
40. Colorful horse
41. Trevi toss-in
42. Road-repair markers
43. Brain part
45. Indy entrant
46. Usher’s offering
47. Entryways
51. Aromatic tree
54. Cry from the crib
55. Actress Zadora
56. Irish Rose’s lover
57. He’s no fun at a party
60. Black, to a bard
61. Intense desire
62. Makes public
63. McNally’s partner
64. __ out a living
65. Physics prefixDown
1. Role for Michael or Jude
2. Stiller’s mate
3. Thumb-twiddler
4. Costa del __
5. Icy treat
6. Ronald Lauder’s mother
7. Minor dispute
8. Jackie’s second
9. Blow one’s stack
10. What some mattresses offer
11. ‘’Bonanza’’ brother
12. Peace symbol
13. Downhill coaster
18. Forearm bone
23. Throw in
25. Barrel of a pistol, e.g.
26. Like a raw recruit
28. The Feast of Lots
29. Muffin flavor
30. Toledo’s lake
31. Howard Dean’s grp.
32. __ Antony
33. Natural emollient
34. Rating unit
35. Teapot feature
38. Mix up
42. Durango ‘’Dang!’’
44. ‘’C’mon, __ pal!’’
45. ‘’It’s Impossible’’ crooner
47. War enders
48. In pieces
49. ‘’QM2, ’’ for one
50. Final authority
51. Buddy, Max, or Bugs
52. Eban of Israel
53. Sphinx, in part
54. Gds.
58. Diving bird
59. Mas’ matesVACATION
0 bedroom Pacific Beach - $4000. Minutes 
to the beach. Easy access to freeway and 
downtown. Sit down bay view from dining 
table. Watch fireworks from living room or 
off deck. Very private deluxe accommoda -
tions. Listing ID: 310319955 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
2 bedroom Sorrento Valley - $2850. 
Charming 1st floor end south facing unit. 
Enjoy plenty of sunshine on a tranquil 
private lake, pool and jacuzzi. Koi filled 
streams and waterfalls meander through -
out the property grounds. Tennis courts, 
and Saunal on the property. 5 minutes 
on local street to Torrey Pines State Beach 
and Reserve. Very tastefully decorated with 
antiques and an Asian flare. Tiffany lamps, 
new King size bed in the Master, new refrig -
erator, Internet and phone service. Close to 
downtown Del Mar, shops, restaurants. 20 
minutes from downtown San Diego and 
the Airport. Close to Carmel Valley Business 
District. Unlike any other complex in the 
area. Listing ID: 310319940 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
3 bedroom Pacific Beach - $3950. The Beach 
House on Venice Court is a fully furnished 
3 bedroom/2 bathroom house in an amaz -
ing location! Just steps from the ocean 
and walking distance to Pacific Beach 
stores and restaurants. Looking for medi -
um to longer term rentals $3950/month. 
Also open to shorter term rentals if space 
is available. Newly renovated with fully 
equipped kitchen including fridge/freezer, 
dishwasher, microwave, oven, coffee maker, 
toaster oven, blender, silverware, plates, 
glasses, and cookware. Unit also has wash -
er/dryer, Big Screen HD TV on main, and 
TVs in all bedrooms. Parking for 2 vehicles 
and private patio with BBQ and furniture. 
No smoking. Small pets will be considered. 
Close to USD, UCSD, Pacific Beach, La Jolla, 
Pt Loma, downtown (Gaslamp, Little Italy, 
East Village). Great central location and 
easily accessible given its proximity to free -
ways. Listing ID: 309519712 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
AUTOMOTIVE
Pitstop Auto Spa Center - 20% Off Auto 
Detail Services Mira Mesa - Expires. CAR 
WASHES - AUTO DETAILING. Listing ID: 
306503332 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Clairemont Car Wash - $10 Off Car Wash, 
Hand Wax & Tire Treatment - Clairemont - 
CAR WASHES - AUTO DETAILING. Listing ID: 
306503328 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
AAA Japanese Car Specialists - Oil Change 
Special San Diego $14.95* - Expires 
- GENERAL AUTO REPAIR. Listing ID: 
307261269 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
ELECTRONICS
Sony Handycam - $100. Sony Handycam 
HDD 60 GB Model dcr-sr47. Including cam -
era , two batteries, camera bag and charger. Everything is in super condition. Listing ID: 
305156992 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
GoPro HERO 4 Silver - $300. Brand new 
GoPro HERO four silver waterproof with 
built in touch display 1080p60 12mp WiFi 
& Bluetooth control view share. FIRM PRICE 
$300. Listing ID: 304329629 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
3 Boxes of VHS Video Movie Tapes: Star 
Wars and Other Collectors - $25. Too many 
to list. Must buy all boxes. I will deliver if 
you want. Locally, I am near the 78 freeway 
and College Blvd. Listing ID: 304329626 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
t
your vision,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel to 
promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
FOL LOW US
@ucsdgua rdian
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
6+23 75,721 287),77(56
to.ucsd.edu
SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 17, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
The UCSD women’s volleyball 
team encountered a tough three-match 
week as it went on to lose the first 
two against Cal State Los Angeles and 
Cal State San Bernardino, ultimately 
extending its losing streak to three. 
However, returning home from the 
two road games, the Tritons restored 
order against Cal Poly Pomona to get 
their first win in four games and move 
on to the next week with momentum. 
Game Vs. CSUSB 
With a two-set lead, UCSD was 
in the driving seat for a comfortable 
win but simply could not hold on as 
Cal State San Bernardino took the last 
three sets and the win. The final scores 
from the match stood as 22–25, 23–25, 
25–21, 26–24 and 16–14. 
The tightly contested match had 
each set decided by no more than 
four points, including 24 tied scores 
throughout the course to the match. 
Although they allowed the Coyotes 
to crawl back into the match, the 
Tritons held a slender 3–1 lead at the 
start of the final set. The lead would 
then disappear in the next four points 
as CSUSB gained control at 5–3. No 
team maintained a consistent lead in 
the set, as the battle went back and 
forth. Eventually, the two teams leveled 
out the score at 14–14. The next two 
points came in favor of the Coyotes 
which gave them the victory. 
UCSD battled it out at the net, 
accounting for 14 blocks while CSUSB 
brought 13. Both struggled at times 
with their conversions, as the Coyotes 
hit .225 (66–27–173) and the Tritons 
hit .196 (68–32–184).
Senior outside hitter Meagan 
Wright led the Tritons with 23.5 points, 
bringing 19 kills, three service aces, 
a block assist and 14 digs. Freshman libero Lindsey Chun did a miraculous 
job on the defensive end, totaling a 
match-high 35 digs. Their teammate, 
sophomore libero Kayla Evans, gave 
a helping hand with an impressive 
career-best 44 assists. 
Game vs. Cal Poly Pomona 
A less drama-filled match on 
Saturday gave UCSD its 10th victory 
of the season and, more importantly, 
put a halt to its three-game losing 
streak. Cal Poly Pomona has struggled 
this season, and UCSD managed to 
earn itself a relatively comfortable win 
at home, 3–1.
Freshman outside hitter Jessyca Beksa finished with a team-high 16.5 
points on 13 kills, two service aces 
and three block assists. Wright also 
added a double-xdouble with 13 kills 
and a team-best 19 digs. Evans outdid 
her previous performance, totaling 47 
assists and 16 digs on the night.  
Once again, the opponent got the 
better of UCSD in terms of hitting 
percentage: Cal Poly Pomona hit .195 
to UCSD’s .192. 
The Tritons went down in the first 
set after hitting an inexplicable .042 
in the set, totaling nine errors. On the 
other hand, the Broncos hit .250 and 
took an early 10–8 lead. However, the Tritons found themselves with the lead 
after earning five straight points. In the 
latter stages of the set, with the match 
leveled at 23–23, UCSD committed to 
consecutive attack errors to give the 
first set to Cal Poly Pomona.   
Despite being down 7–3 in the 
second set, the Tritons gained control 
after scoring 12 of the next 14 points 
and looked to have a comfortable set 
win from that point, but the Broncos 
did not let up. Pomona cut the lead 
to 24–23 after saving two set points; 
however, Beksa gave an emphatic spike 
to give UCSD the set win.
Cal Poly Pomona kept the final two sets competitive until the end, but 
UCSD prevailed with resilient play in 
the latter stages of both sets. The third 
set ended 22–25 and the fourth 20–25.
The Tritons now stand with a 10–8 
overall record and 7–3 in conference 
play. The three-game losing streak puts 
UCSD third in the standings, behind 
CSULA and CSUSB. 
UCSD will hit the road again and 
go for the season sweep against Cal 
State Dominguez Hills on Tuesday, 
Oct. 18 at 7 p.m. 
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICSProlonged Losing Streak Makes Tritons Tumble Into Third Place  
UCSD loses two games in a row over the week but gets a victory against Cal Poly Pomona on Saturday, stopping a three game losing streak.WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL
daniel  hernandez     dah043@ucsd,eduBY  D a n i e l  H e r n a n d e z
Senior staff writerSPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
DEV JAIN
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 17, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
As it turns out, the No. 9 
UCSD women’s soccer 
team knows how to 
play some pretty darn good 
defense, and after shutting out 
their last four opponents, the 
Tritons weren’t planning on 
letting anyone take away their 
thunder. Cal State Los Angeles 
had the unfortunate task of 
traveling to La Jolla last Friday 
to try and upstage the rolling 
Tritons but found little success. 
With a 2–0 victory at home, 
UCSD won its eighth straight game to improve to 11–2                                               
overall and a phenomenal 7–0 
in the California Collegiate 
Athletic Association.
A defense can’t win the game 
on its own, but it came pretty 
darn close — for the first 45 
scoreless minutes of the match, 
the Tritons prevented the Golden 
Eagles from attempting a single 
shot. A mixture of unbendable 
defense and consistent pressure 
on CSULA defense from eleven 
first-period shots helped give 
the Tritons control of the match, despite the score remaining 0–0 
at halftime. 
It wasn’t until the 72:17 
minute mark that senior 
midfielder Kristen Sampietro, 
off of an assist by sophomore 
midfielder Summer Bales, sent 
the ball sailing into the right 
corner of the net and finally gave 
the Tritons the lead. 
“We played through the 
midfield and found Summer on 
the outlet, ” Sampietro recalled to 
the Athletics Department. “She 
hit a very nice cross, and I just got a toe in there. ”
The Tritons could have 
cruised ahead for the win just 
fine without another score, but 
junior forward Katie O’Laughlin 
did not mind drilling in another 
one just seven minutes later, 
scoring for the 11th time this 
season to knock CSULA out for 
good. O’Laughlin’s score put 
the Tritons up 2–0, notching 
the team’s fifth shutout in as          
many games. 
Even with the relatively close 
score, the Tritons’ 25–0 shot advantage proved that the team 
won in a fairly lopsided affair. 
The Triton defense made senior 
goalkeeper Itzel Gonzalez’s night 
easy, helping earn her ninth 
individual shutout of the season.
CSULA dropped to just 6–4–2 
overall and 5–2 in CCAA play 
after the loss. Next up, UCSD 
will travel to Stanislaus State for 
a showdown on Friday, Oct. 21 
at 7 p.m. 
UCSD Upsets No. 12 Cal State Los Angeles With A 1-0 Home Win
Senior Riley Harbour scored the only goal the Tritons needed as the team moves into a tie for first place with their fourth win in a row.MEN'S SOCCERWOMEN'S SOCCER
UCSD men’s soccer played 
at home last Friday against 
Cal State Los Angeles. The 
No. 21-ranked Tritons stunned the 
12th-ranked Golden Eagles in a 1–0 
upset and moved to 10–1–2 overall 
and 5–1–1 in California Collegiate 
Athletic Association. With this 
victory, UCSD catapulted its way 
to a four-way tie for first place in 
CCAA, while CSULA dropped to a 
tie for fifth. 
Senior midfielder Riley Harbour 
scored the only goal of the game 
in the 35th minute of regulation. 
Teammate and sophomore redshirt 
defender Jeff Powers lofted the ball 
over the field toward Harbour, who 
was then able to come down with 
it within the 18 and take a shot. 
Although the ball was first deflected 
by CSULA junior goalkeeper Dan 
Arnoll, Harbour never quit. He managed to get the rebound and 
guide the ball toward the bottom 
right corner, making it 1–0. 
The Tritons didn’t take their feet 
off the gas pedal even after taking a 
one-nil lead. Harbour again nearly 
scored in the 83rd minute after a 
through pass from senior midfielder 
Nick Palano. What could’ve been 
Harbour’s fourth goal of the year 
ended up sailing over the keeper 
and crossbar by mere inches. 
UCSD’s junior midfielder 
Zachary Lagotta almost had a 
goal for himself within the last 10 
minutes of play. After receiving 
a deep-right cross from redshirt 
junior forward Malek Bashti, Lagotta 
took on a defender. Lagotta faked 
going left, stumbling the defender 
and took a shot at the far right 
post, just missing the net and an                                                
insurance score. 
The Golden Eagles resurged in 
the second half to put the Tritons 
on edge. However, UCSD’s fourth win in a row can be credited to 
redshirt senior goalkeeper Cameron 
McElfresh, who made several 
spectacular saves throughout the 
second half. 
“This was a great win, no 
question about it,” UCSD head 
coach Jon Pascale commented. 
“CSULA made it tough on us at 
the end. I thought the guys held up 
really well. Cameron made a couple 
key saves when he needed to, and it 
was an all-around team effort. ”
One notable play came on a free 
kick in the 72nd minute. McElfresh 
lept over Golden Eagle forwards 
and punched the ball away. CSULA 
junior midfielder Samuel Croucher 
took the rebound and shot a ground 
bullet to the far left post, only to 
have McElfresh make the save. 
With the 1–0 victory over Cal 
State Los Angeles, the Tritons 
continue their undefeated home-
game streak of eight games. They 
looked to maintain their first-place status in CCAA this Sunday with 
another home and league game. 
They defeated  Cal State Dominguez Hills 3–0 and moved to 11–1–2. 
Anthony  Tzeng     aitzeng@ucsd,eduAlex  Wu   adw006@ucsd,edu
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE/UCSD GUARDIAN
PHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE /UCSD GUARDIANTritons Extend 
Win Streak To 
Eight Straight 
Games 
UCSD has another shutout victory, this time a 2-0 
win against Cal State Los Angeles. With the win the 
Tritons have an undefeated 7-0 record in CCAA play, 
improving their overall record to 11-2. 
by Alex Wu // Sports Editorial Assistant
BY  A n t h o n y  T z e n g
Senior staff writerUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM.Water Polo
W.Volleyball
M.Water Polo
Swim
W.Volleyball10/20
10/21
10/23
10/29
10/166 PM
7 PM
12 PM
12 PM
7 PMVS Concordia
VS Humboldt State
VS UC Irvine
VS Claremont-Mudd-Scripps
VS Cal State San Bernardino