VOLUME 49, ISSUE 28   THURSDA Y , JANUAR Y 28, 2016  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
BEST OF SAN 
DIEGO
THE UCSD GUARDIAN SURVEYED 
STUDENTS TO FIND OUT WHAT 
MAKES IT WORK IN SAN DIEGO. 
FROM BEST BOBA TO BEST 
TACOS, FIND OUT WHERE YOU 
SHOULD GO WHEN NEED TO 
MAKE QUICK DECISIONS AND 
SMART CHOICES.
WEAK   REPRESENT A TION
WOMEN'S TENNIS LOSESstudent adviser  lack s   power
1-6  LOSSES AGAINST CSUF,  USDOPINION,  P age   4
SPORTS,  P age  12
THURSDAY
H 67 L 49FRIDAY
H 67 L 52
SATURDAY
H 65 L 53SUNDAY
H 60 L 46
FORECAST
VERBATIM
I DISCOVERED THAT 
MY FOCUS ON 
QUANTITATIVE DETAILS, 
AIR OF SUPERIORITY, 
AND COMPLICITY IN 
HYPER-CONSUMPTION 
AND INEQUALITY WERE 
SYMPTOMS OF THE 
DOMINANT ENGINEERING 
MINDSET...”
- Brandon Reynante
HAND & HEART
OPINION , PAGE 4
INSIDE
LEUKEMIA  ....................... 2
WOMEN’S SPORTS  ......... 4
JULIEN BAKER Q&A ......... 8
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU  ..10
FENCING  ....................... 11“LIFESTYLE,  P AGE  6
PHOTO BY HAOCHENG TANG/ GUARDIAN
UC President Janet Napolitano 
announced a new plan to add 14,000 
beds to UC campuses by 2020 at the 
UC Board of Regents meeting on Jan. 
20. The President’s Student Housing 
Initiative, is part of a systemwide 
effort to ensure sufficient housing for 
what is expected to be a significant 
enrollment increase over the next 
three years.
UC Office of the President Media 
Specialist Kate Moser told the UCSD 
Guardian that the housing initiative 
is also an effort to keep housing 
affordable for all UC students.
“Many of our campuses are 
located amid some of California’s 
most expensive real estate, ” Moser 
said. “ And this effort is aimed at 
alleviating any housing shortages 
students are facing and supporting 
current students as well as future enrollment growth. ”
UCSA President Kevin Sabo 
told the Guardian that Napolitano’s 
housing initiative builds on a current 
proposal that was already adopted.
“There were some different capital 
projects that had to do with housing 
that would have been completed 
several years from now, ” Sabo said. 
“ And this proposal is a way to speed 
that up so that the 14,000 beds are 
accomplished by 2020 rather than 
several years from that point on. ”
Sabo continued by pointing out 
that the housing initiative would 
not be completed in time for the 
upcoming enrollment boost of 
10,000 students.
“There aren’t solutions in place for 
them so we still have our work to do 
and we’re not out of the woods yet, ” 
Sabo said. 
In terms of funding for additional 
housing, each campus will assume 
additional debt according to its respective debt capacities. Sabo 
pointed out that although the housing 
initiative will not cause students’ fees 
to increase in the short run, campuses 
only have two options in the future.
“The important thing to remember 
is in the short term, technically 
our tuition is not going up, ” Sabo 
said.  “But if campuses are assuming 
additional debt, then that means in 
the future they’ll either be asking for 
that funding from the state or they’ll 
be raising tuition and fees. ”
The next step in the initiative 
is a system tour to all 10 campuses 
conducted by Executive Vice 
President - Chief Financial Officer 
Nathan Brostrom and Chief 
Investments Officer Jagdeep Singh 
Bachher to understand housing 
goals. The visits are scheduled to 
begin on Jan. 22. A.S. Council Authorizes
Election for Division I Vote
Members of A.S. Council unanimously voted to 
add an Intercollegiate Athletics Association fee 
increase to facilitate a transition from NCAA 
Division II to Division I athletics at UCSD during tonight’s 
meeting. The special election to increase student fees by 
$160 per quarter starting Fall 2016 will be held during Week 
8 of spring quarter. 
Former national ESPN sports commentator and UCSD 
alumnus Beth Binger told the UCSD Guardian the transition 
to Division I will improve the university’s academics as well 
as its athletic presence.
“[The long-term effects of going Division I] will be 
tremendous, ” Binger said. “It will pull more alumni back 
to campus, just by virtue of the profile of Division I, which 
will hopefully lead to more giving. Ultimately, what we’re 
most interested in is funding student scholarships and 
continuing the excellence of students, both academically 
and athletically. Division I will help do that, while giving 
students who are superior athletes a platform, a level playing 
field, with their peers. ”
The current ICA student activity fee is $129.38 per 
quarter, or $388.14 per academic year. If the university 
proceeds with the divisional change, this amount will 
rise in increments annually for three years; $189.38 per 
quarter in 2017, $244.38 per quarter in 2018, $289.38 per quarter in 2019.
Sixth College senior and UCSD swimmer Colleen 
Daley described how athletics allow for more community 
recognition.
“We deserve the chance to be excellent and we deserve 
to be recognized for our excellence, ” Daley said. “Moving to 
Division I will provide that visibility and allow all areas of 
the UCSD community to be recognized [by the public] in 
the way that we recognize ourselves already. ”
UCSD ‘91 Muir College alumna Annamarie Bezzerides 
stated that obtaining Division-I status would impact alumni 
and future students alike. 
“It is so important for students to have a chance to vote 
on this and realize that it’s not just about the four years that 
you are here, ” Bezzerides told Council. “It’s about the legacy 
that you, as future alumni of this institution, will carry with 
you forever. ”
Eleanor Roosevelt College senior Joey Tompkins said 
that though he will be graduating in June and will not 
experience attending a Division-I university during his 
academic tenure, he is optimistic about the impact the 
change will have on future generations of Tritons.
“Our student athletes work very hard balancing academics 
and athletics year-round on a daily basis, ” Tompkins 
commented. “I definitely believe they should be recognized   B Y  KRITI  SARIN    news editorFormer UN 
Ambassador 
Speaks at 
Global ForumCAMPUS UCSD
Anwarul Chowdhury 
discussed the U.N. Culture 
of Peace Programme at Great 
Hall this past Monday.
BY   T I N A   B U T O I U
MANAGING EDITOR
See AMBASSADOR , page 3Former Under-Secretary-General 
and High Representative of the 
United Nations Ambassador Anwarul 
Chowdhury spoke about the U.N. 
Culture of Peace Programme at this 
past Monday’s Global Forum held in 
Great Hall.
The event was co-sponsored 
by the San Diego World Affairs 
Council, the San Diego Diplomacy 
Council and the U.N. Association of 
USA, San Diego. In attendance were 
U.N.A. President Bettina Hausmann 
and U.S. National Commission for 
UNESCO Commissioner Joanne 
Tawfilis, who both spoke prior to 
Chowdhury’s speech.
Chowdhury discussed the goals 
of the 1999 U.N. Declaration and 
Programme of Action on The Culture 
of Peace and how members of the 
U.N. Member States, media and civil 
societies, and other U.N. entities can 
promote them. 
The Programme focuses on 
improving eight specific areas 
through both governmental and 
non-governmental action: education, 
sustainable development, human 
rights, equality between men and 
women, democratic participation, 
solidarity and tolerance, the free flow of 
information, nuclear disarmament and 
peace and security. While Chowdhury 
successfully chaired the meeting to 
pass The Culture of Peace declaration 
in 1999, he believes that individual 
action is necessary to actualize it.
“Poverty eradication and 
population issues needed to be more 
closely connected with broader issues 
of peace and development and human 
rights, ” Chowdhury told the UCSD 
Guardian. “ As the Cold War was 
ending … I felt there should be a 
bigger opportunity to making peace 
sustainable forever and not going back 
to a Cold W ar [state] again … In 1999, 
we got an agreement on [the Culture 
of Peace] but if I present it now, I don’t 
think I’ll get [an agreement]. ”
Senior and Model United Nations 
member Jessie W arme agreed with the 
notion of peace but argues it is limited.
“I think Mr. Chowdhury needs to 
expand his definition of ‘education’ to 
include the essential act of exposure to 
people different than you, rather than 
simply being told not to dislike them, ” 
W arme said. “The ‘culture of peace’ is 
… about increased exposure between 
groups to dissipate the stereotypes. 
When people have little exposure 
to people who look, think or act 
differently than them, no amount of 
time in the classroom will sufficiently 
alter their anxieties and hostilities. ”
Tawfilis, however, iterated 
Chowdhury’s message by describing UC President Plans to Add 14,000 Beds by 2020UC SYSTEM
BY  m a r i a  s e b as
staff writerSee DIVISION I , page 3
maria  sebas   msebas@ucsd.eduPhoto by Megan Lee /UCSD Guardian2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 28, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
AVERAGE CAT By Christina Carlson
DO YOU TWEET? YAY SO DO WE!
@UCSDGua rdian
REGISTER ONLINE AT AS.UCSD.EDU/SAFERIDESREGISTRATION
FOR this quarter
IS NOW OPEN!
A.S. Safe Rides allows 
registered undergraduate 
students to get 3 FREE rides 
per quarter. 
Students must register at 
least 24 hours prior to their 
first ride. 
Contact A.s. safe rides: (619) 564 - 7998The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian 
is not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts 
or art. The views expressed herein do not necessarily 
represent the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University 
of California or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian 
is funded by advertising. “I was, admittedly, too.” Jose on 
being a Twilight fan.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Marketing Co-Directors
Peter McInnis, Haley Asturias
Training and Development Manager
Cedric Hyon
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Vincent Pham
Tina Butoiu
Kriti Sarin
Jacky To
Cassia Pollock 
Marcus Thuillier
Allison Kubo
Karly Nisson
Brittney Lu
Olga Golubkova
Jonathan Gao
Megan Lee
Joselynn Ordaz
Sherman Aline
Christina Carlson
Sophia Huang
Jennifer Grundman
Sage Schubert ChristianEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
News Editor
 
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editors
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Quinn Pieper, Jacky Toster.com
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim, Alicia Ho, Lisa Chik
Editorial Assistants
Naftali Burakovsky, Christian Duarte, Dev Jain,  
Quinn Pieper, Sam Velazquez, Julie Yip
CalCopyUCSD@gmai l.comLowest
Prices POSTER PRINTINGPRINT/ COPY FILES
'' FedExFastest
ServiceReaders printed in 1 day.Cal Copy UCSD Course Readers
SAME DAY COLOR POSTER PRINTING!
#OMG 
#LIKE US
#FOLLOW US
@ucsdgua rdianEpidemiologists at UCSD School 
of Medicine reported that people 
living at higher altitudes with lower 
sunlight and ultraviolet B exposure 
are at least twice as likely to develop 
leukemia than equatorial populations. 
UCSD co-authors Cedric Garland, 
Raphael Cuomo, Edward Gorham and 
Sharif Mohr published their findings 
associating vitamin D levels with 
leukemia in an online issue of PLOS 
One last month.
The study analyzed age and 
elevation-adjusted incidence rates 
of leukemia using data collected in 
172 countries by the International 
Agency for Research on Cancer of 
the World Health Organization 
for its GLOBOCAN Project. This 
information was compared with cloud-
cover data from the International 
Satellite Cloud Climatology Project.
Doctor of Public Health and 
Professor in UCSD’s department of 
family medicine and public health 
Cedric Garland explained that 
populations farther away from the 
equators will, on average, be exposed 
to solar energy that has traveled farther 
through the Earth’s atmosphere, 
thereby lowering the amount of UVB available to the skin.
“The results suggest that much of 
the burden of leukemia worldwide 
is due to the epidemic of vitamin D 
deficiency we are experiencing in 
winter in populations distant from the 
equator, ” Garland told UCSD Health. 
“People who live in areas with low 
solar UVB exposure tend to have low 
levels of vitamin D metabolites in their 
blood … [placing] them at high risk of 
certain cancers, including leukemia. ”
Revelle College junior and 
Community Service Coordinator 
of the Public Health Club Kristina 
Chepak emphasized the necessity of 
publicizing this information order 
to minimize individual risks of 
developing leukemia. 
“The actions needed to be taken 
in public health would be to educate 
the population who are not exposed to 
enough sunlight on different ways to 
obtain vitamin D, like taking vitamin 
D supplements or obtaining it from 
fish, eggs or milk and orange juice that 
are fortified with vitamin D, ” Chepak 
told the UCSD Guardian.
According to the study, a 
molecule found in the skin absorbs 
the wavelengths from sunlight, and 
the liver and kidneys metabolize it. 
This molecule then acts on vitamin 
D receptors in bone marrow to make 
up junctions that help tightly bind cells together, causing increased 
contact inhibition of cancer. The 
process results in transcription 
of G1-phase inhibitors, which 
control mitosis and may therefore 
help prevent the uncontrolled 
proliferation of white blood cells 
that is characteristic of leukemia.
The researchers’ conclusion is 
consistent with results from similar 
investigations concerning other forms 
of cancers including breast, colon, 
pancreatic, bladder and multiple 
myeloma. In each study, reduced 
UVB radiation exposure and lower 
vitamin D levels were associated with 
higher risks of cancer. Leukemia rates 
were highest in countries relatively 
closer to the poles, such as the United 
States, Australia, New Zealand, Chile, 
Ireland and Canada; they were lowest 
in countries closer to the equator, 
including Bolivia, Samoa, Madagascar 
and Nigeria.
“These studies do not necessarily 
provide final evidence, but they have 
been helpful in the past in identifying 
associations that have helped minimize 
cancer risk, ” Garland explained.
According to the American Cancer 
Society, 54,270 cases and 24,450 deaths 
from leukemia occur in the United 
States alone each year, and there is 
no known way to completely prevent 
most types of leukemia. Revelle junior and External Affairs Coordinator for 
PHC Omar Sajjad expressed that while 
adequate amounts of vitamin D may 
be a preventative measure, the need for 
sun protection still exists.
“The key thing is to know how to 
limit your risk for sun-related cancers, ” 
Sajjad told the Guardian. “Try to avoid 
the sun during the times of day when 
its rays are strongest. ”
Chepak suggested that people aim 
for 20 to 30 minutes of sun exposure 
while wearing protective sunscreen. 
She also encourages an increased 
consumption of fish and eggs along 
with products that are fortified with 
vitamin D, including orange juice and 
milk. Lastly, Chepak acknowledged 
that substitutes for sunlight, including 
safe tanning beds and portable full-
spectrum light panels, could provide 
healthy amounts of UVB.
“Sweden created a form of light 
therapy that is used to help with 
Seasonal Affective Disorder, or ‘winter 
blues, ’ caused by lack of exposure to 
sunlight, ” Chepak told the Guardian. “It 
helps promote vitamin D production 
[and] has helped students be more 
alert and focused in school. Maybe 
something like this would be beneficial 
in reducing the risk of leukemia. ”SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY
Epidemiologists Link Low Sunlight Exposure to Leukemia Rates
The study found that people in high-altitude areas far from the equator are more likely to be vitamin D deficient.
BY   L I SA  C H I K
STAFF WRITER
LISA  CHIK   LCHIK@ucsd.edu
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGsee more athow education prepares students to 
participate in The Culture of Peace.
“If you study really hard and go 
in [the world] with fresh ideas, talk 
to each other, speak more than one 
language … you can get into these 
dialogues, ” Tawfilis said. “Y ou’ll know 
at some point in your life what you can 
do to support the culture of peace. ”
Chowdhury acknowledged that 
it is difficult to achieve consensus 
within the U.N. and suggested that 
one possible solution would be the 
elimination of the veto power in U.N. 
Security Council. The security council 
has 15 member nations, five (the 
United States, China, Russia, France 
and the United Kingdom) of whom 
can block any resolution regardless of 
how the other members vote. 
Warme disagreed with 
Chowdhury’s proposal by saying it 
enables the U.N. to be an effective 
institution.
“[Veto power] does cause 
stalemates, but it was created after 
WWII in an attempt to prevent another 
major war — when the main military 
powers can say ‘No’ to a plan, it helps 
prevent it, ” W arme said. “For countries like the U.S., Russia and China who 
receive little to no developmental or 
economic benefit from the U.N., veto 
power is a powerful incentive to keep 
them active and engaged in the U.N. 
and without the presence of the P5, the 
U.N. would be functionally useless.”
Chowdhury expanded on the issue 
by telling the Guardian that at least 
50 percent of U.N.-member nations 
would need to agree to this and that 
the nations who have veto power 
would be unwilling to give it up.
“I think the founders of the U.N. 
gave into that situation, ” Chowdhury 
said. “Maybe that was appropriate 
in 1945 but not anymore … In a 
monopolar world, many governments 
do not even have the ability to object 
to any point of view the U.S. holds and 
this is a big problem. ”
When asked by an audience 
member about the current refugee 
crisis, Chowdhury said could have 
been addressed more promptly and 
adequately.
“U.N. has been trying resolve these 
issues [refugee crisis] over the past 
four or five years it has become more 
complex, ” Chowdhury said.  “We 
could have handled this situation 
much better four years ago than now … I would also say that sometimes 
situations develop in a way that it is 
beyond anybody’s capacity to stop it. ”
In addition to the refugee crisis, 
Chowdhury explained to the Guardian 
that fear of terrorism places individual 
human rights and liberties in danger.
“Sept. 11 has projected terrorism 
into a much higher level than it 
deserves and it has allowed the 
authorities in power to use the excuse 
of terrorism, both who are victims 
and perpetrators of terrorism, ” 
Chowdhury said. “Sometimes, 
people do not understand that lack 
of liberty, freedom and individual 
human rights can undercut all of the 
other big efforts against terrorism, 
autocracy or dictatorship. ”
Chowdhury recognizes it may be 
difficult to institute change directly on 
a political level and discussed how he 
believes personal efforts within The 
Culture of Peace are the most effective.
Additional reporting by Marvin 
Andrade and Reilly Hurley from 
Prospect, UCSD’s Journal of 
International Affairs.NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 28, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
Chowdhury: UN Security Council Should Eliminate Veto Power
▶ AMBASSADOR,  from page 1
TINA  BUTOIU   CBUTOIU@ucsd.edu
Deadline to apply: Feb 28
TO LEARN MORE ATTEND THE OPEN forum:
Jan 28 • 12pm-1pm • Forum, PC EAST, 4th Floor 
Contact s6mathew@ucsd.edu for additional inquiriesBecome the next
UC STUDENT
REGENTfor that level of commitment to their 
sports and academics. ”
Engineering alumnus Ping Y eh, 
who received a bachelor’s degree from 
UCSD in 1999 and a master’s degree 
in 2001, described his experiences 
as a student on campus and the 
legacy his class left behind; Y eh asked 
Council members what they want to 
leave behind.
“When I walk on campus and I 
now see people taking pictures with 
the [Triton] statue, I smile with pride, 
because that’s something that my class built — we did that, ” Y eh said. “But 
when I look beyond the statue and 
see Price Center and RIMAC, I feel 
thankful because previous generations 
paid for those [amenities] so that the 
next generation could benefit. ”
According to A.S. President 
Dominick Suvonnasupa, if passed, the 
fee increase will need to be approved by 
Assistant Vice Chancellor of Student 
Life Gary Ratcliff, Vice Chancellor of 
Student Affairs Juan Gonzalez, UCSD 
Chancellor Pradeep Khosla and then 
the UC Office of the President.
Four other undergraduate students 
expressed support for going Division I during the public input portion of the 
meeting. No members of the public 
voiced opposition to the referendum. 
UCSD Athletics Director Earl Edwards, 
Senior Associate Athletics Director 
Ken Grosse and Deputy Athletics 
Director Wendy Taylor May were also 
present at the meeting, but did not 
address Council. Suvonnasupa initially 
proposed the Division I referendum 
at the first Council meeting of Winter 
Quarter on Jan. 6.None of  Those Who Spoke at Public Input Opposed the D-I Vote
kriti sarin   ksarin@ucsd.edu▶ DIVISION I,  from page 1Looking for the 
New Business 
Column?
Now posted every Wednesday 
night, after the A.S. Council 
meeting, online.
ucsdguardian.org4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 28, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CASSIA  POLLOCK
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
BRANDON   REYNANTE
BREYNANTE@ENG.UCSD.EDUHand  &  Heart
As an engineer, I used to measure 
the value of everything based on hard 
numbers, while my ex-wife — an art 
historian and sociologist by training 
— did not. The dichotomy in our 
worldviews, and my arrogant belief in 
the superiority of my own, fractured 
our marriage and contributed 
to our divorce. My engineering 
education had indoctrinated me 
to value only the quantifiable, to 
be an unquestioningly obedient 
employee designing machines for the 
highest bidder. I was oblivious to the 
repercussions of my ideology.
Everything changed when I 
read Engineering and Sustainable 
Community Development by 
Juan Lucena. I discovered that my 
focus on quantitative details, air 
of superiority, and complicity in 
hyper-consumption and inequality 
were symptoms of the dominant 
engineering mindset. This mindset 
includes an assumption of only one 
right answer to every problem, a 
belief that engineers are expert in 
everything and a lack of critical 
thinking. Lucena illustrates how 
this mindset subjugates engineers 
to imperialism, militarism and 
consumerism by recounting myriad 
cases of engineers exploiting 
indigenous peoples and the 
environment in the name of material 
growth. For example, engineers 
building the Suez Canal used 
millions of slaves — thousands of 
whom died — to establish man’s 
dominion over nature. 
Whenever I admit to being an 
engineer, there is a degree of shame 
in my voice. Y es, engineering has 
benefitted society, but only if “society” 
really means “the wealthy. ” Consider 
sanitation — in the 20th century, 
improved sanitary technology in 
wealthy countries like the U.S. 
eradicated numerous diseases, while 
the Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention estimates that 2.5 billion 
people worldwide still lack access to 
hygienic toilets. 
Engineering’s destructive and 
unjust history is rarely, if ever, taught 
to engineers, and its pervasive 
mindset has become institutionalized. 
Nowhere is this more apparent 
than the Massachusetts Institute 
of Technology, where I attended 
graduate school: arguably the world’s 
preeminent institution of engineering 
education. MIT’s mascot is a beaver 
(nature’s engineer) and it’s motto is 
“Mens et Manus” (Mind and Hand), 
denoting one who obtains theoretical 
scientific knowledge and applies it to 
practical ends.
Adherence to this motto 
engenders excellent facility in 
solving technical problems, but it 
eschews consideration for socio-
cultural, political, environmental 
and ethical dimensions of the 
world. It’s no surprise engineers 
create technologies that disrupt 
communities and ecosystems. The 
violent and acontextual complexion 
of engineering also precipitates 
racial and gender homogeneity in 
the field, with women representing 
less than 13 percent of the workforce 
according to 2014 data from the 
National Science Foundation.
A few academic programs like 
Global TIES at UCSD, where I teach, 
are educating a new cadre of engineers 
concerned with the social and moral 
implications of their work, but such 
efforts are far from widespread. In 
this column, I will describe how my 
experiences opened my eyes to the 
harmful tendencies of engineering. 
I invite you to join me on a journey 
of critical self-reflection to challenge 
the dominant mindset of a field that 
purports to benefit society.UCSD’s annual Spirit Night was 
this past Friday, garnering a record-
breaking number of attendees for 
the men’s game since 2008. The 
men’s game attracted a whopping 
3,924 audience members, a slight 
edge over 2008’s previous record 
of 3,906 audience members. In 
comparison, the women’s game 
brought on a fraction of the men’s 
audience: 1,674 fans or 42 percent 
of the maximum number of fans 
for the entire night. That is a huge 
discrepancy between the two games. 
A 58-percent difference prompts the 
question: Why are there so many 
more fans at the men’s game than the 
women’s game? One important issue 
to address is timing.
The women’s game tipped off at 
5:30 p.m. on a Friday night and the 
men’s game at 7:30 p.m. Y et, in a two-
hour time span, 2,250 more fans were 
accounted for. It’s not like the women’s 
team’s athleticism could deter fans. In 
fact, the women’s team is ranked No. 
21 in the NCAA and has been keeping 
an impressively positive win-loss ratio 
this season: 10–2 in the California 
Collegiate Athletic Association and 
15–3 for all games. The No. 17 men’s 
team, ranking slightly higher, have the 
same win-loss record as the women. If 
high-scoring games drives excitement 
and attendance to games, then by all 
means, the women should have an 
equal — if not more — amount of 
fans on big games like Spirit Night. 
This past season, the top three scoring games for the women were: 93–34 
against San Francisco State, 95–72 
against Dominican (CA) and 90–76 
against Cal Poly Pomona. The men’s 
top three scoring games have been: 
86–74 against Colorado School 
of Mines, 81–62 against Cal State 
Monterey Bay and 79–55 against Cal 
State Los Angeles. A matter of talent is 
completely out of the question — both 
teams have the capacity to perform at 
extraordinary levels and should not 
affect attendance. What can affect 
turnout, though, is what time the 
women’s team plays.
There are a few scenarios that 
would prove a satisfactory answer 
for the wide gap in attendance. It’s 
on a Friday and students could be 
returning home after a long week. 
Classes, unfortunately, run past 5 p.m. 
on Fridays and some students are 
still in lecture. Or some may consider 
Spirit Night an opportunity to partake 
in the tailgating culture that is present 
on other university campuses. This, of 
course, excludes all those that do not 
want to go to the game in general.
Even if all the other factors stated 
above held true, UCSD Athletics 
must be aware of the discrepancy in 
attendance. Surely UCSD does not 
undervalue women’s athletics over 
men’s by having one team play before 
the other time and time again. Or 
perhaps UCSD is abiding by a long 
held tradition of men playing after 
women. Or, possibly, UCSD is being 
held captive by other universities to keep up this tradition. Regardless 
of whatever factor or factors stifle 
attendance for the women’s basketball 
game on such a unifying night, there 
should be some recourse to ensure 
that the women’s team gets just as 
much support from UCSD as does the 
men’s. That could look like the men’s 
game being played before the women’s 
game, or having Spirit Night — and 
other basketball games throughout the 
season — alternate which team plays 
first. On an away game, for instance, 
if UCSD plays a double header and 
the women’s team plays first, they 
essentially get less down time between 
arrival and being courtside, ready to 
play. There’s no reason that the men’s 
team should be privileged with an 
extra two hours of rest and relaxation 
after getting off the bus.
If UCSD Athletics wants to set the 
standard in “all aspects of competitive 
success, academic excellence, ethical 
conduct, student-athlete experience, 
campus pride…, ” the program should 
look into facilitating campus pride 
for the student-athlete experience 
of the women’s basketball team on 
nights like Spirit Night. Flip the play 
times, alternate the tip-off each year 
— a subtle change could go a long 
way to show that both teams have an 
equal footing in representation and 
support on our campus and send a 
wider message for progress for equal 
representation in athletics. Do this 
because male dominance in athletics 
is so pre-Title IX.Women’s Division of  Athletics Deser ves More Support from the Student Body
Vincent Pham
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Tina Butoiu
MANAGING EDITOR  
Cassia Pollock
OPINION EDITOR
Quinn Pieper
ASSISTANT OPINION EDITOR
Kriti Sarin
NEWS EDITOR
Jacky To
ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITOR
Allison Kubo
FEATURES EDITOR
Olga Golubkova
CO-LIFESTYLE EDITOREDITORIAL  BOARD
The UCSD Guardian is published twice a week at the 
University of California at San Diego. Contents © 
2015. Views expressed herein represent the majority 
vote of the editorial board and are not necessarily those 
of the UC Board of Regents, the ASUCSD or the 
members of the Guardian staff. The UC Board of Regents unanimously approved 
student regent Avi Oved’s proposal to add a 
nonvoting student adviser to the board for a two-
year trial period last Thursday. Student advisers will 
serve on the board for one-year terms and come 
from di fferent academic degree levels than the 
student regent. Since the 2016-17 student regent 
designate, Marcela Ramirez, is a Ph.D. student, the 
candidates for the 2017 student adviser position 
will likely consist of undergraduate students. This 
way, both undergraduate and graduate University 
of California students have an opportunity to 
communicate their speci fic needs to the regents. 
While this new position will increase student 
representation and facilitate communication with the 
board, it might not be as impactful as it appears to 
be. Oved’s proposal initially sought to add another 
voting student regent to the board, and he spent most of his term working to make this proposal 
feasible. A fter one year of compromising with the 
regents, an “adviser” position is the most they will 
accept. Yes, adding another voting member to the 
board would require a constitutional change, but why 
is that impossible for the regents to consider?
The student adviser position is a good start 
to bridging the gap between UC students and 
administrators, but students need real power in 
order to truly ensure that their voices are heard. The 
UCSD Guardian editorial board commends Regent 
Oved for his tireless e fforts to implement change. We 
urge future student regents not to feel satis fied with 
the amount of representation his proposal currently 
allows for and to instead continue to push for the 
voting rights on the board that he originally intended.
Being able to hear and understand students’ 
perspectives is a step in the right direction. 
See REGENTS, page 5Finally, a student adviser has been added to the UC Board of  Regents for a two-year trial, but this doesn’t 
necessarily mean students will have a legitimate voice in important administrative decisions.
ILLUSTRA TION   B Y  CHRISTINA   CARLSONOpening the 
Minds of  
Engineers
Hear Me?
Can YouOPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 28, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
ucsdguardian.org
get informed...READ
EVERY MONDAY & THURSDAY
visitAdviser Position Offer Students an Artificial Voice Without Real Influence
LETTER  TO  THE  EDITOR
As the number of students in 
the UC system continues to grow, it 
becomes more and more necessary 
for student representation in 
governance to grow as well. In 
today’s vastly changing campus 
landscape students are growing, 
evolving and becoming more 
connected than any other 
generation previously. We need a 
system of governance that adapts 
just as quickly.
As the Student Body President 
for UCSD, it is my job to 
understand the needs of my 
students. To accomplish this, I 
rely on the insight and knowledge 
of student leaders from all over 
campus. It takes constant effort to 
be able to understand the student 
body. We have to constantly 
progress with the needs of the 
students, and these needs change 
quickly. I would imagine in as little 
as four years’ time from my term, I 
would not understand the student 
body at all anymore. The needs and 
the desires of the students even one 
generation from now will be vastly 
different than from what I have 
experienced.
I represent roughly 26,000 
undergraduate students. I spend 
my days in various community spaces, meeting with and talking 
to students. I also live the 
student experience every day, 
and I still find it challenging to 
truly understand all the needs of 
26,000 students. Imagine trying to 
understand the needs of 246,000. 
That is what the Regents attempt 
to do on a daily basis. The board 
is governed by 26 members, of 
which only two are students, and 
only one has a vote. Of the other 
members, most are well established 
in their careers, and the university 
experience is mostly a distant 
memory. Their experiences with 
tuition, food insecurity, housing 
prices, textbooks and racial 
equality are nothing like what we 
are experiencing. Thus, there are 
only two members on that board 
that really know what challenges 
we face.
Student Regent Avi Oved 
has proposed a student advisor 
position to the UC Board of 
Regents. 
The student advisor position 
will advise the board on the 
student perspective, serve on 
various committees and cost very 
little to create or maintain. The 
benefits that an additional student 
perspective could provide are limitless, and downsides are few. 
The Student Advisor will be one 
more valuable voice that fully 
understands the needs and desires 
of today’s students, because they 
are part of today’s student body.
Speaking purely from a 
business standpoint, a student 
advisor position makes sense. 
Getting additional insight on your 
organization with extremely low 
cost and little downside would 
be a smart business move. It will 
be a decision that would benefit 
all parties involved. It will help 
students because we will have 
another voice at the table. It will 
help the Regents because they will 
have access to another student 
perspective, which will allow them 
to function better, make informed 
decisions and enhance their 
working relationship with students. 
The Student Advisor position is an 
all-around win. I urge the Regents 
to move forward with this proposal 
and create a stronger bridge 
between students and the Regents. 
Dominick Suvonnasupa
President, Associated Students
University of California, San 
DiegoTo the editor: Unfortunately, this is only the first 
step. As UC President Napolitano 
pointed out, the Board of Regents 
and the UC O ffice of the President 
already meet with students on 
a regular basis to hear their 
perspectives. As always, the more 
student voices they hear, the better, 
and with the new adviser position, 
this will be happening more 
frequently. 
As we have seen during the 
tuition hike protests and the issue 
of divesting from private prisons, 
among others, the Board of Regents 
is by no means obligated take any 
action in direct response to student 
protests or petitions. In addition, 
when it comes to critical decisions 
such as tuition hikes, students voices 
may be heard but the votes are 
ultimately cast by a group of non-
students who are appointed on the 
board for fixed 12-year terms and 
cannot be directly held accountable 
by students or Californians. 
However, even if students may not 
have a direct impact on the board, the positions of student regent 
and student advisor do provide a 
platform to organize and promote 
student activism. 
The UC Board of Regents in and 
of itself commands media attention 
and, when con flict or discussion 
arises, people across the nation pay 
attention. In addition, the board does 
include several ex o fficio o fficers who 
have seats up for election, including 
the governor, lieutenant governor 
and speaker of the assembly. While 
the regents themselves may choose 
to ignore student voices when 
casting their votes, those who hold 
California’s purse strings will be 
listening. Over 90 percent of the 
246,000 students enrolled in the 
UC system are California residents, 
many of whom are eligible, or will 
be eligible, to vote during their 
college careers. When mobilized, 
students are a formidable force to be 
reckoned with at the polls. Together, 
all three students sitting on the UC 
Board of Regents will be able to 
augment mobilization e fforts and 
enact change. Furthermore, their 
individual e fforts can be streamlined to address the needs of speci fic 
communities alongside general 
system-wide goals. 
It is also important to remember 
that, at the end of the day, the 
student regent is also a student 
with priorities that go beyond the 
UC system and with plans that 
extend past their undergraduate 
and/or graduate years in system. 
A maximum two-year term is 
not nearly enough time for a 
proposal or idea to be actualized; 
the student advisor position in 
itself is the germination phase of 
Oved’s ultimate aim of a second 
student regent that could easily be 
forgotten if future students do not 
continue to push for it. The duty 
of the UC Board of Regents is to 
secure the future of the University 
of California as an institution, 
not necessarily the prospects or 
well-being of students who will 
eventually leave. As such, as fellow 
students, we have a responsibility 
to support our student leaders and 
our successors through continuous 
lobbying and advocacy e fforts of our 
own and in whatever ways we can. ▶ REGENTS from page 4GOT ISSUES?
BE HEARD
BY YOUR PEERS!SEND YOUR 
LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
LASER TAG!
PLAY THE GAME THAT  
WILL CHANGE YOUR LIFE...
•  Group Events  
– Fraternity  
– Sorority 
– Student Orgs
•  Huge Party Area  
to 150+ Guests
•  Thursday Night = 
“College Night”  
3rd Game Free
3146 Sports Arena Blvd.  •  San Diego, CA 92110  •  619.221.0100  
www.ultrazonesandiego.com
•  Late Night at the ZONE —  
Midnight to 2am Fri & Sat6     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 28, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
As Heidi Klum most famously iterates: In fashion, 
one day you’re in and the next, you’re out. There 
can only be one true winner — especially in our 
capitalist market economy — and this mantra isn’t just 
exclusive to 300-dollar garments. Introducing the judges. 
The students of UC San Diego: the best and brightest of 
the world, all condensed into one anxiety- filled university. 
The UCSD Guardian’s Lifestyle section: writers who win 
the award for most co ffee cups consumed in a three-hour 
sitting. Toby, the Kumquat: a famous food critic writing a 
dissertation on the cannibalism of his own people.
This week’s challenge was pitting the best of the best 
against each other. San Diego is ripe with culture, 
whether that’s through cuisine, spatial locations or where 
sand meets water. What better way than to have them 
throw down? Let the show begin.“The indoor space is nice for hanging out, 
and the Muiristas are so friendly and cool. ”“I am a bigger fan of outdoor cafes than 
of indoor ones. Also, the co ffee from 
Art of Espresso is from Bird Rock, my 
favorite co ffee roaster in San Diego. The 
staff is amazing, too! In addition, I love 
the variety of music that they play. ”
“The facility is much newer, and there are 
way more machines available for students 
to use!”
“Both are merely okay, but Vallarta has 
always been the go-to drunk spot. ”
“Cody’s has an amazing view and the 
area around it is more interesting to 
walk around than the Cottage! Also, the 
seafood is great at Cody’s!”“Main gym has fewer people, 
and it is less intimidating. I 
do not need all the specialized 
equipment anyway. ”
“Come on, is this even a question? 
Lolita’s California burritos are 
unquestionably superior to 
Vallarta. There’s a much better 
solid food/sauce ratio in Lolita’s 
burritos, and the fact that Vallarta 
is 24 hours is a little unsettling. ”
“The Cottage is a little pricey, 
but they give you free co ffee and 
coffee cake when you’re waiting. 
Good location. ”
“Gaslamp is less messy than PB, 
and there aren’t as many rowdy 
students there. Also, Gaslamp 
restaurants are much better!”
“Y ou can’t really do anything in Gaslamp if 
you’re under 21. Also, PB has the beach and 
is equally fun to go to during the day and 
at night, whereas Gaslamp is usually only 
hopping at night. ”As a college student, you may feel 
like getting your lip pierced is no 
longer as rebellious and alternative as 
it was in middle school. However, if 
you have yet to give up the teenage 
dream of getting more holes in your 
body, then rejoice at the existence of 
Enigma Professional Piercing studio 
in Pacific Beach and on Adams Av -
enue — a place where piercing any 
part of your body is as safe and fast 
as never before. Working only with needles, Enigma’s piercers will make 
sure that your procedure involves 
minimal pain and maximum comfort. 
Enigma also encourages you to come 
back with any post-care questions 
and concerns free of charge. With 
staff as responsible as surgeons, and 
as friendly as your pals, there is no 
place for regrets or room for your 
mom to worry.
A killer trio of typical SoCal living 
usually includes yoga, adventure and 
organic eating. And at Trilogy, all 
three intersect in this aerial-yoga sanc -
tuary that boasts a vegan cafe serving 
refreshing juices and cleansing-palate 
pleasers. From relaxing, morning 
yoga sessions overlooking the Pacific, 
to mid-air, Cirque du Soleil-esque crow poses, yogis from every stage of 
practice are welcomed to expand their 
journeys into meditative mindfulness. 
*Expert tip: follow up your morning 
vinyasa routine with cold-pressed 
juice and pancakes topped with cacao, 
strawberries and coconut. 
5th Ave Books offers an esoteric col -
lection of nostalgic collector’s items, 
such as: biographies, children’s books 
and cookbooks, which can make 
browsing through an all-day affair. *Expert tip: if you’re passing time 
at 5th Ave Books before a brunch 
reservation, make sure to set a timer, 
it’s too easy to lose track of time. By Shelby Newallis // Senior Staff WriterBy Christian Gella // Senior Staff Writer
By Brittney Lu // Lifestyle Co-Editor
By Olga Golubkova // Lifestyle Co-Editor
PHOTOS BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE, OLGA GOLUBKOVA, SIDDHARTH ATRE /UCSD GUARDIAN
WEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 28, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
Boba, the Taiwanese tea drink with 
tapioca, is an addiction for many, 
an occasional venture for some and 
the rest simply have yet to try it. 
Between Tapioca Express, Fruititude, 
It’s Boba Time and ShareTea, 
students chose Tapioca Express 
as their favorite. TapEx embodies 
convenience — it is located within 
the heart of campus and is open 
until midnight — a quality cherished 
by college students. But if you have 
a car and a boba craving, do give 
other boba tea shops like ShareTea a 
shot, and make your seasoned boba 
connoisseur friends proud. 
A controversial win at best, Geisel is 
either a hit-or-miss for many UCSD 
students. But with its centralized loca -
tion, promising a new cafe, plethora of 
resources, variety of study spaces and 
convenient access to Panda Express, it’s 
the place to be for many. And its stun -
ning architectural features and symmet -
rical layout make it a visual champion 
for the ages. In case Geisel’s eighth floor 
is too intimidating, broaden the horizon 
and trek over to the hip co ffee shop 
inside M.o.M. or the research centers in 
the Biomedical Library and the Global 
Policy and Strategy Library.Along Paci fic Beach’s beautiful coast -
line near the popular De Anza Cove 
rests Sushi Ota, an award-winning 
Japanese cuisine and sushi bar where 
local residents and keen tourists alike 
are served dishes from signature 
octopus cakes to fresh, carefully-
prepared sushi. Stepping foot inside 
this seafood haven, one may feel a 
sense of history and tradition, rooted 
in the restaurant’s authentic, Japanese 
appeal. With a fitting atmosphere 
and superior service, customers 
will find their experiences at Sushi 
Ota worthwhile.Can’t make it to our sister city 
Tijuana? Then salsa your way over 
to Tacos El Gordo on H Street — the 
San Diego staple taco stop feeding 
hungry college students and taco 
enthusiasts since 1998. Boasting the 
same carne asada tacos as the original 
Tacos El Gordo, originally from Baja 
California, this iconic hotspot that 
also features sopes, tostadas and 
mulas was sure to take the crown. A 
historic legend serving up authentic 
Mexican street food? Si, por favor. 
The Observatory North Park opened 
only five years. O ften confused with 
the Observatory in Santa Ana, the 
North Park venue soon caught up 
with its older brother from Orange 
County. In charge of booking artists 
for both locations, talent-buyer 
Jeffrey Shuman quickly brought 
big names to San Diego fans of all 
ages. Be it the legendary Morrisey 
or rapper Vince Staples, whose first 
album was listed among last year’s 
best records, the Observatory has 
been satisfying music lovers’ demand 
for quality and variety.When small towns, let alone cities 
like San Diego, have third-wave co ffee 
shops, ca ffeine competition is fierce. 
Participating in the race, all co ffee 
shops have to measure up to high stan -
dards. The majority of UCSD students, 
however, gave their preference to Better 
Buzz, due to its original approach 
to sweetened, milky espresso-based 
drinks, relative proximity of the three 
locations, extensive open hours (5:30 
a.m. to 9 p.m.) and drive-through. The 
UCSD Guardian approves of these 
perks, with an exception — please, Bet -
ter Buzz, strike the Red Bull Smoothie 
off your menu.
College and ramen go together 
better than Guy Fieri and a patty 
melt. In San Diego, this toxic love 
affair between lazy students and the 
pre-packaged noodle phenomenon is 
re-evaluated to allow ramen to reach 
its full potential. On Convoy, ramen 
contenders run rampant, and while 
votes for each of these eateries were 
relatively equally distributed, Tajima 
Ramen House finished just a tad 
stronger than the rest of the pack. But 
let’s be honest: No one loses when 
choosing an authentic bowl of ramen 
over a plastic bag filled with orange 
salt and cardboard noodles. Living Room Cafe is almost 
too cool to be in La Jolla. Not 
pretentious or boutique-y in the 
slightest, open until 1 a.m. on 
weekdays, with espresso and drip 
coffee for less than $2 — it’s truly a 
gem for UCSD students looking to 
study o ff-campus. It’s a nice place 
to hang out for a couple of hours in 
a mellow environment, and with a 
bus stop nearby, it’s easy to get to.
Goodwill is best for your average 
browser, who may or may not 
be down to si ft through quirky 
and random things for hours. It’s 
well-organized and has a nice 
selection of clothes, accessories, 
random cassettes from the 1980s 
and all sorts of fun, cheap stu ff. 
Also, if you want to clean out your 
closet and make room for new, fun 
clothes, the Paci fic Beach location 
accepts donations. If there is one place any sane foodie 
would wish to keep in the event of a 
mall complex shutdown, Trader Joe’s 
the one taking home the big trophy 
— sorry Ralphs. With its own unique 
selection of local products from 
great value wine, like the infamous 
“Two-Buck Chuck, ” to healthy, 
organic food options, Trader Joe’s is a 
specialty grocery store where quality, 
creativity, innovation, and an old-
fashioned atmosphere all co-exist. 
At the end of the day, shoppers at 
Trader Joe’s take away di fferent, yet 
personal, store experiences that are 
nothing but satisfying.
San Diegans love their booze. Don’t 
get us wrong, San Diego is not a 
depressing little town where you 
can only have fun when desperately 
inebriated. There are plenty of 
activities worth pursuing sober, 
but being buzzed on a Friday night 
adds to the beauty of the city. UCSD 
students prefer to end their week in 
a classy way – tasting beers at Ballast 
Point Brewery or sipping on cra ft 
cocktails at Polite Provisions Bar. If 
you are still at your “just-turned-21” 
PB stage, take cognizance of the 
opinion of trenchermen-Tritons and 
head to Ballast Point with your crew 
or to Polite Provisions with your date.As a university perched within 
such close proximity to the sea, the 
beach and surf culture of California 
is fundamental when it comes to 
being a Triton (we’re Tritons, for 
crying out loud). When asked to 
choose between Blacks Beach, La 
Jolla Shores, Ocean Beach and 
Mission Beach, La Jolla Shores 
dominates. With a quick ride on the 
30, you reach the one-mile stretch 
of scenic beach, perfect for the 
usual swim, tan and bon fire. But if 
you’re feeling daring, do check out 
the many attractions and surprises 
Black’s has to o ffer. Hell, you might 
even want to join them. WEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 28, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
Compiled By Guardian Lifestyle Staff
PHOTOS BY HAZEL LEUNG, CHRISTIAN DUARTE, JONATHAN GAO /UCSD GUARDIAN
cafeMax Frost brought vivacity and sincerity to the House of Blues’ 
Voodoo room with cheerful indie-pop and a dynamic stage presence. 
It is Thursday night, and a 
crowd of handsome, bearded 
20-somethings with their 
trendy dates are milling around 
the Voodoo Room at the House 
of Blues. Max Frost and the Los 
Angeles alt-rock man-band Grizfolk 
are performing. Max Frost is the 
perfect opening act for any band 
because he’s so energetic. Frost’s 
high energy is infectious in the way 
that all indie pop tries to be. While 
what he performs couldn’t quite 
be characterized as dance music, 
it is the kind of perky quasi-dance 
music that is conducive to perky 
quasi-dancing. It lies comfortably 
between the genres of dance and 
easy listening; it’s accessible and 
vibrant indie pop that holds up 
under careful inspection. 
Frost’s bouncy sound works best 
when he is more upbeat, like in his 
most popular song, “White Lies. ” 
Other highlights from the show 
include “Paranoia” and “Withdraw. ” 
All three are quite fast and 
undeniable concert favorites. Some 
of the slower tracks work just as well 
as the upbeat tracks, but they aren’t 
as consistently strong. Because Frost often switches dramatically between 
a really hi-fi and lo-fi sound, he 
titled his 2013 album “Low High 
Low” as a nod to this technique. The 
lo-fi sound that he has continued 
using in his newer music lends the 
entire show a classic vintage style 
which falls nicely in line with Frost’s 
overall aesthetic. 
The music on its own would 
probably be boringly described as 
“fun” or “entertaining, ” but seeing 
Max Frost perform live paints a 
different, grander picture of the 
Texan singer-songwriter. Simply 
listening to his music in the car 
yields a very different response 
from listeners than seeing Max Frost 
perform live: Listening to his song 
on the radio, one would imagine 
Frost to be a commonplace up-and-
coming pop star, a nascent Andy 
Grammer. But one performance 
shows him to be wildly talented. 
He is thoroughly accomplished — 
he records, writes and produces 
all his own music. Frost sounds 
just as soulful live as he does in his 
recorded songs, and he never stops 
bobbing enthusiastically along with 
each track.Frost is so busy onstage that 
he frequently switches mid-song 
between playing the drums and 
two different electric guitars, 
never stopping his singing or lively 
dancing. He is as effervescent and 
high-energy as his music. His upbeat 
lightness is refreshing in the era of 
faux authenticity permeating all 
aspects of modern recorded music. 
By not contriving a sound and 
look that is needlessly moody and 
gritty, he can paradoxically come 
off as much more sincere and less 
packaged than his indie rock/pop/
folk counterparts. Doing the work of 
an entire band all on his own, Max 
Frost truly puts on a one-man show. 
This level of showmanship is rare, 
and it works well with his sound. 
With his work ethic and old school 
approach, Max Frost proves that 
while his music may be casual and 
bubbly, he takes the performance of 
it very seriously. 
—   susie  da vidson  
Contributing WriterPHOTO COURTESY OF THE MORTON REPORT
MAX  FROST
a t  HOUSE  OF  BLUES  VOODOO  ROOM
Concert Date   Jan. 21CONCERT   REVIEW
PHOTO COURTESY OF COBRACAMANDA PUBLICITY
JULIEN BAKERQ&A
Tell me about Memphis. What’s the music scene like there and how 
has it in fluenced you?  
Well the music scene is very tight-knit, but not tight-knit in a way that 
would communicate exclusivity. It’s familial — that’s the only way that I know how 
to describe it. When I was younger I would go to shows — deathcore shows and 
punk and hardcore — at the skate park, and through being peripheral to that scene, 
I started going to house shows and stu ff. There’s this organization called Smith7 and 
they do all-ages, substance-free house shows so that kids can have a place to get 
plugged into the music scene. It kind of morphed into a citywide thing where all 
the local bands know the house show circuit and everyone puts on shows at their 
house and tries to work together with venues and co-ops to promote constructive 
comradery within the scene instead of competition. I think that was very important. GUARDIAN:
BAKER:You are playing San Diego next month, how would you describe 
your live show?
I have this fear that my live set might just induce people to throwing themselves 
out of the nearest open window — it’s like intervals of three-minute long sadness 
punctuated by a horrible dad joke. I get really socially anxious really easily. I used to deal 
with that by being introverted and closed o ff, which was a lot easier to do in a live band 
setting because you’ve got two stereo fenders and there’s a whole wall of sound. It’s grunge 
and rock-n-roll; you can just scream and it goes away. But when it’s just me standing up 
there... if I were to behave that way, no one would know that it’s just because I’m really 
nervous. Everyone would think that I am some kind of... I don’t know... that I was being 
pretentious or alienating or a brooding musician and so I try to be as chatty as possible, just 
interact with the crowd and be like “Hi, what’s up? I’m gonna make some horrible jokes and 
say really dumb things so that maybe we can balance out the feelings, the vibes that work in 
this room so no one will burst into sobs. ”GUARDIAN:
BAKER:
You  are  p l ay i n g  The Irenic, which is a functioning church. Was that 
on purpose, seeing as you are very open about your faith?
It wasn’t on purpose, but I do enjoy getting to play in church venues. There’s 
this interesting relationship with how I view church venues. First of all, just from a tech-y 
perspective, the acoustics are always great. But also, there was a church in Memphis that 
had a basement that would put on hardcore shows all the time. And I know that’s jarring to 
some people but because of that venue in Memphis, it’s not to me. GUARDIAN:
BAKER:What are some of your in fluences and inspirations, old and new? 
Well, when I was learning to play guitar I was in fifth or sixth grade and the 
records I was listening to were “ American Idiot” and “Take This To Y our Grave” by Fall 
Out Boy. That was the formative alternative genre because those were the first things I 
was listening to that weren’t just what was on your parents’ stereo, which would’ve been 
Fleetwood Mac from my mom and Whitesnake from dad. I always say these guys, but it’s 
because, to me, their music never gets old. Aaron Weiss of Mewithoutyou is my lyrical 
hero as is Ben Gibbard of Death Cab for Cutie. When I was in eighth grade, I listened 
almost exclusively to songs with breakdowns; you know, metalcore, and then I picked up 
“Transatlanticism” at a record store and I thought “Oh my gosh! My life has changed!” and I 
dove into Death Cab for Cutie’s discography and developed a wider palette, fortunately. GUARDIAN:
BAKER:
You are still in school, how do you balance being a touring musician 
and college student? What is your plan for the future?  
I am technically still in school: I’m enrolled in online courses. On the drive here 
— it was a really long drive from Wisconsin to Columbus — I was just reading my textbook 
in the passenger seat, studying. Whenever the discussion opens, I’ll have to find some 
Wi-Fi and type that up and turn it in. But it’s no more challenging than last semester. I was 
taking on-campus courses and that was di fficult because I would be travelling for shows on 
the weekends and so I would be on a plane trying to type a final dra ft of a paper. It’s really 
demanding but totally worth it because — as tired as it sounds — education is important 
and I am a nerd. I want to continue pursuing my degree, but for as long as I’m blessed 
enough for music to be a sustainable lifestyle. I mean, that’s what I want to do with my life, 
so if I have an opportunity to do it, I’ll probably take that for as long as I can. Maybe return 
to school whenever, if ever, it seems like a good decision. GUARDIAN:
BAKER:
Y ou’ve been written about in New Y ork Times, Stereogum, and Pitchfork. 
Could you describe how it feels getting all this attention and seeing how well your album is 
being received?  
It’s incredibly surreal and actually kind of terrifying sometimes. I want to give 
a disclaimer and say that when I say I prefer the anonymity of previous tours that were in 
basements and houses, that’s not to say that now I have this idea of myself as an incredibly 
proli fic and in fluential musician, and everyone knows who I am. I know I’m still very, very 
low, but even whatever modicum of recognition I’ve received thus far, it continues to blow 
my mind. I never want to know numbers or anything — quantitative data like plays or likes 
or views — because I feel like that would poison my soul a little bit. I hold on to qualitative 
validation like getting to play with The National! That’s a memory that, whatever success or 
failure comes in the future, I will never lose.GUARDIAN:
BAKER:Having kicked off her East Coast tour only a few days ago, 20 year-old singer-songwriter Julien Baker spoke 
enthusiastically with the Guardian about “Sprained Ankle,” her debut and the saddest 
record of 2015 — all over a cup of coffee in a Columbus diner.INTERVIEW BY JOSELYNN ORDAZ // STAFF WRITERWEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 28, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
After four “waves” of 
increasingly devastating 
attacks, most of humanity 
is dead and the Earth is left as a 
post-apocalyptic wasteland. The 
first wave was unimpressive, but 
it set up a potential alien invasion 
thriller. Then the second wave hit, 
and the film was shaping up to be 
an exciting disaster film. With the 
third wave, frustration began to set 
in as it became clear where the film 
was going. By the fourth wave, the 
film had turned into the start of a 
run-of-the-mill dystopian young-
adult franchise. 
The film tells the story of Cassie 
Sullivan, one of the survivors of the 
waves of alien attack. After she is 
separated from her younger brother, 
Sam, in the most cliche way possible 
(she gets off of a soon-to-depart bus 
in order to find a teddy bear that he 
left behind), she sets out on a mission 
to find and rescue him. The first act of 
the film, while completely lacking in 
nuance and originality, contains some 
compelling sci-fi action elements: 
planes fall out of the sky and giant 
tsunamis decimate coastal cities. But 
by the second act, the film drops the ball and becomes like every other 
young-adult novel inspired film: A 
young person is on the run from some 
powerful force in a dystopian world, 
all while establishing a predictable 
love triangle. The film trades a generic 
alien invasion film for a generic 
young-adult film, but at least the 
former could have been more exciting.
One of the saving graces of “The 
5th W ave” is the performance of 
Chloe Grace Moretz. She is able to 
inject at least some human emotion 
into even the the most hollow and 
derivative scenes of the film. While 
there are some leaps in logic taken 
with her character (how did a high 
school cheerleader who’ d never 
held a gun learn to survive and 
operate an automatic weapon?), 
Moretz’s portrayal is down-to-earth 
and relatable to the young target 
audience. The same cannot be said 
for the remaining acting talent in the 
film, especially the child actor who 
plays Cassie’s brother, Sam (Zackary 
Arthur). He can read lines and say 
“I love you, ” but his character is 
portrayed with so little emotion, it 
made almost no difference whether he 
was rescued or not. “The 5th Wave” goes through the 
various story beats of the disaster/
post-apocalyptic genre as if they 
were a list of checkboxes. There 
are humvees entering a survivor 
campsite, a lot of walking through the 
forest and along a deserted highway 
and even an unexpected romance. 
There may not be a single original 
bone in “The 5th Wave’s” emaciated 
body. It feels like the film was written 
by a screenwriting robot which was 
only preprogrammed with dystopian 
young-adult novels. The story is very 
predictable, and the big reveal in the 
last act can easily be predicted as long 
as you aren’t asleep in the theater. 
This should leave you wondering: 
If an amateur film critic can foresee 
the aliens’ plans, are these advanced 
aliens really all that smart?
While “The 5th Wave” 
contained some slightly compelling 
action early on, it quickly devolved 
into something even teenagers 
would hardly enjoy. Calling this 
film wasted potential would be 
unfair, because it only ever had the 
potential to be half decent. Let’s 
just call it wasted time.
— Naft ali   burak ovsky
A&E Editorial Assistant
the  5th  w a veDirected by   J Blakeson
Starring   Chloe Grace Moretz, Nick Robinson
Rated  PG-13
Release Date  Jan. 22
“The 5th W ave” should be titled “Y oung Adult Movie, ” 
as it struggles to incorporate every cliche of the genre.PHOTO COURTESY OF ACESHOWBIZ
FILM   REVIEWpa l a n a
by   charlie  hil ton
Release Date Jan. 22
Charlie Hilton proves she is the new female 
indie icon in her first solo release, “Palana. ”ALBUM   REVIEW
There is one rising female 
artist with so ft, angel-like 
vocals of her own, and 
no, it’s not Lana Del Rey. Charlie 
Hilton, lead singer from Oregon-
based indie band Blouse, recently 
parted ways from the band and 
released her first ever solo album, 
“Palana. ” With heartfelt and soulful 
vocals, Hilton delivers a personal 
output of her experiences of 
meaningful love and carefree living. 
Indeed, her sound is reminiscent of 
a soft-rock version of Lana del Rey.
The word “palana” means 
“protection” in her native language, 
Sanskrit. In her early youth, Hilton’s 
parents anointed her with that 
moniker, and while recording her 
first solo album, she believed it 
would be the best manner in which 
to express her transition from her 
introverted attitude through song. 
The title track begins the album in 
a dreamlike mood with a soothing 
orchestra where Hilton introduces 
her uniform, angelic voice. Songs 
like “Funny Anyway, ” “Let’s Go To 
A Party” and “Young” represent her 
easygoing attitude with a creative 
mashup of instruments to create a 
loose, mellow vibe. By combining 
the saxophone and synthesizer — a 
pairing not usually attempted — 
Hilton puts herself in a distinct 
category under the broader genre 
of indie rock, one that isn’t solely 
a reiteration of trendy alternative 
styles. Additionally, lyrics like 
“I’m only happy when I’m dancing 
for you” musically re flect Hilton’s 
journey in becoming more 
comfortable in her own skin.
Although some listeners initially might miss the appeal of the dark, 
deep melodies and lush synthesizer 
in the album, Hilton successfully 
attempts to explore themes relative 
to her past, all while connecting 
with listeners. “Pony” portrays 
Hilton’s new independent attitude 
post-Blouse. She sings of failed 
relationships and separations 
with harsh, direct lyrics. “Get o ff 
my back, I’m not your pony” is 
an empowering chorus to blurt 
out cathartically, all the while 
maintaining the synth’s laid-back 
tempo. In the album’s single “100 
Million, ” Hilton teams up with 
indie veteran Mac DeMarco to 
deliver a profound duet, singing 
of an everlasting yet troubled love. 
With gratifying harmonies and 
pleasant strokes of their guitars, this 
final track is clearly the highlight 
of the album when compared to its 
other dark tracks.
“Palana” incorporates dark 
and desolated vocals throughout 
that many may not find amusing, 
so if you are the type of person 
who is into upbeat EDM anthems, 
this album may not satisfy you. 
However, Hilton’s vocal talent 
cannot be understated. She 
combines emotion with sensational 
orchestrated mashups. With her 
creative side coming to life through 
song, “Palana” contains tracks that 
will successfully change the way of 
indie tunes with her unique voice.
—   melissa  p alafox
Contributing Writer
Watered-down sequels 
are not only a problem 
domestically, but they are 
also, as “Ip Man 3” shows, an issue 
abroad as well. As the fame of the 
franchise grows larger and broader, it 
is apparent that the film’s producers 
felt compelled to capitalize on the 
audience before it dissipated. The 
result is an enjoyable but ultimately 
leveled and unambitious product 
akin to Disney’s series of Marvel 
movies — tonally consistent with its 
predecessors but lacking originality 
and substance.
What characterizes “Ip Man 3” is 
its overabundance of storylines and 
conflicts, none of which are clearly the main event. The most manufactured 
of these has the grandmaster 
trade obligatory blows with an 
internationally recognizable fighter in 
Mike Tyson. Tyson’s “character” Frank 
engages in a reckless pursuit of seizing 
the school that Ip’s son attends for no 
particular reason other than, if one 
had to guess, power? “If we don’t get 
that school, ” Frank declares, “then this 
all means nothing!” What “this” refers 
to is never revealed, likely due to there 
being nothing other than a producer’s 
empty wallet. 
Even that line, however, is 
bearable compared to Tyson’s other 
dialogue, much of which is spoken in 
atrociously-pronounced Cantonese. But despite how laughable Tyson’s 
presence in the film is, it does indeed 
make you laugh, which renders 
it forgivable if not commendable, 
assuming that’s what the filmmakers 
were going for. Plus, underlying the 
conflicts that his character causes are 
hints of genuinely intriguing topics 
— the consequences of globalization, 
methods of countering police 
corruption and the sustainability of 
a local quasi-militia. But all of these 
are left so shallow and uncharted 
that one might hesitate in attributing 
any intention or purpose to the 
filmmakers.
Fortunately, Tyson is neither 
the main antagonist nor the final 
showdown opponent. These roles 
instead belong to Cheung Tin-chi, 
a challenger to Ip’s reign over the 
Wing Chun branch of martial arts. 
Played admirably by Zhang Jin, Tin-
chi is clearly the closest equivalent 
in kung fu that Ip has faced so far. 
However, beyond his intimidating 
skillset, Tin-chi is too confusing of a character to care for. At times, he 
acts indubitably good, defending the 
school from Frank’s henchmen out 
of his own spirit; at others, he acts 
despicably bad, accepting money 
from Frank to hospitalize another 
one of the town’s kung fu masters. 
Moral ambiguity is welcomed, but 
contradictory character traits left 
unresolved are not. Ultimately, Tin-
chi’s threat and Zhang’s performance 
are wasted in favor of senseless, 
back-and-forth storytelling.
What supersedes Ip’s battle for 
the Wing Chun title, however, is his 
wife’s battle with cancer. Ip’s undying 
commitment to Cheung Wing-sing 
is arguably the moral crux of the 
film, but due to her character’s lack 
of development and autonomy, 
her struggle to live lacks emotional 
impact. Had the filmmakers granted 
Wing-sing her own arc, apart from 
getting sick and needing Ip’s attention, 
“Ip Man 3” could have been redeemed 
by the cultivation of a true, human 
love story.Despite the film’s flaws, Donnie 
Yen, through reservation and 
posture, once again proves his 
handle on cinema’s most polite 
hero and badass. He flawlessly 
executes the series’ undiminished 
fight choreography, which Ip resorts 
to only when exchanging respect 
fails. Unfortunately, these otherwise 
engaging fights are framed within a 
film of underdeveloped characters 
— some too puzzling, others too 
cartoonish — and lack the story-
driven tension to enhance them 
and render them meaningful. But 
they are, admittedly, thrilling to 
watch. However, if the goal of the 
producers behind “Ip Man 3” was 
to replicate the spirit of American 
blockbuster cinema, they have 
excelled at the task and earned all of 
the money they stand to gain from 
their artistic compromise.
—  jacky  to
Staff WriterDirected by   Wilson Yip
Starring   Donnie Yen, Zhang Jin, Lynn Hung, Mike Tyson
Rated  PG-13
Release Date  Jan. 22While “Ip Man 3” sustains the franchise’s moral core, 
the film lacks its rs’ grit, spirit and focus.ip  man  3FILM   REVIEWPHOTOS COURTESY OF ACESHOWBIZ10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 28, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDS$
Gua rdian Classi fieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifieds
BIKES
New Electric and Gas Bikes - $429. We have 
been building motorized bikes, gas and 
electric, for over ten years and we build 
motorized bicycles, custom order, starting 
at only $429. You choose between a beach 
cruiser, mountain or road bike and we 
put a motor, gas tank, throttle. Listing ID: 
229284417 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more informationFixie/single Speed Folding Bike - $425. 
The bike folds in half for easy storing and 
transporting. It is a single speed bike that 
converts to fixed by flipping the rear wheel. 
Original all-flat black paint. Must sell before 
I leave San Diego! Listing ID: 230210511 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Thule Two-Bike Rack - $80. Exceptional con -
dition Thule 2-bike carrier. Adjustable to 
fit any car. Listing ID: 230210510 at ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tion
ELECTRONICS
NEW Monster 4ft Ultra High Definition 
HDMI Cable - $4. This is a brand new four 
feet ultra high definition HDMI cable sealed 
in the box that can also do 7.1 surround 
sound. I have about ten more. Listing ID: 
230210579 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Blue Alarm Clock - $10. Never been used 
blue alarm clock. In perfect condition how -
ever I lost the instruction manual. Batteries 
already included. Listing ID: 230210578 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
informationLouis Vuitton Tablet Case - $25. Lightly used 
Louis Vuitton tablet case. Carries credit 
cards. Listing ID: 230210577 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
FURNITURE
Leather Arm Chair - $30. Leather arm chair 
(from Jerome’s), fair condition. Normal wear 
and tear. Listing ID: 230210597 at ucsd -
guardian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tion
Modern Coffee Table - $70. A small 
scotch tape mark on the glass. Listing ID: 
230210592 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Beautiful Wooden Chair - $20. In attrac -
tive shape. Beautiful piece. All wood. Just 
a couple of small scratches and needs a 
screw tightened. Listing ID: 230210598 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
tyour vis
GET A FREE
QUOTE TODAY!ion,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel
to promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!
www.ucsdguardian.org/advertisingComplete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies 
on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.ukLevel: 1234 Level: 1234
SUDOKU
MARKETING JOB
La Jolla Dental Group 
looking for two outgoing 
students to help with their 
marketing, preferably one male 
and one female.
If interested, contact Maria 
at 858-455-9614 or o ffice@
lajolladentalgroup.com for more 
information.
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
Karmonize.org  is a student organization
where we can support good causes,
cooperate, and volunteer to
improve the UCSD community.+E/3 OT+ER6, F,1D +E/3
:+E1 YOU 1EED ,T, A1D
0A.E .AR0A REA/!
6+O3 TR,TO1 OUTF,TTER6
to.ucsd.eduSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 28, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
The UCSD fencing team was 
back in action on Sunday, as they 
competed at the San Diego Cup 
where the men’s team earned two 
gold medals and two silver medals.
Junior Sean Callaghan earned 
UCSD’s first gold medal in epee. 
Callaghan had four wins and su ffered 
only one defeat in pool play before 
running the table 5–0 in the direct 
elimination round. He took down 
Jorge Mendezu 15–10 in the final.
Sophomore David Hadler 
continued to perform well in foil. 
He went 5–1 in pool play and then 
went on to clinch the gold medal 
in the title game against another 
Triton, freshman Brian Howard. 
With the 15–14 win, Hadler earned 
the gold while Howard had to 
satisfy himself with silver. Senior 
and captain Drew Dickinson had 
himself a day in saber, going all the 
way through the final, only to be 
defeated there and earn silver. 
The Triton women also 
performed well on Sunday, scoring 
a couple of top-ten finishes by 
freshman Michelle Caplin, who 
finished seventh in the D & 
Under Mixed Epee event; another 
freshman, Leanne Singleton-
Comfort, took ninth in saber.
UCSD will continue its winter 
season at the Northwestern Duals 
on Jan. 30 and 31.FENCING
Callaghan and Hadler Each Win Gold Medals at San Diego Cup
A pair of freshman Michelle Caplin and Leanne Singleton-Comfort finish in the top 10, fencing will compete at Northwestern Duals next.
BY  m a r c u s  t h u i l l i e r
marcus thuillier   
D & Under Senior Mixed 
Epee 
6. Brandon Chan
7. Michelle Caplin
10. Laura HawkinsSenior Mixed Epee  
1. Sean Callaghan
T-3. Scott Phillips
7. Gerard HengSenior Mixed Foil 
1. David Hadler
2. Brian Howard
T-3. Zuhril Megat Zariman
7. Andrew HouSenior Mixed Saber  
2. Drew Dickinson
T-3. Evan George
7. Taylor Walsh
8. Paul Datta
9. Leanne Singleton-Comfort
10. Lillian ChuPHOTO BY MEGAN LEE/ GUARDIAN No. 18 UCSD opened up its 
season against Cal State Fullerton 
and University of San Diego this 
past weekend. Against some good 
Division-I opposition, UCSD could 
not pull out the wins, falling against 
both teams 6–1.
The UCSD women’s tennis team 
started its spring season with a 
6–1 loss against Cal State Fullerton 
Wednesday, Jan.20 at Titan Courts 
in Fullerton. 
CSUF (1–0) is unranked in 
Division-I as UCSD (0–1) is ranked 
18th in NCAA Division II. 
The Tritons’ only victory 
came at No. 4 singles as freshman Alexandra Weil beat freshman 
Masako Makiba in two sets, 6–3 
and 6–4.
The 28th-ranked singles player 
in the country, UCSD’s senior Kyra 
Scott, extended her No. 1 match 
against freshman Alexis Valenzuela 
to a tiebreaker, but ended up falling 
6–0, 3–6, 10–5; Cal State Fullerton 
won the other four singles contests 
in straight sets.
The doubles team of Scott and 
sophomore Britta Mosser, ranked 
No. 16, played for the Tritons in the 
first spot, where they were defeated 
7–5, by freshmen Camille De Leon 
and Sarah Nuno. Weil and freshman 
teammate Madison Hale, the No. 3 
doubles team, made it a close match, 
but were beaten 7–6 (4–0) by Makiba 
and freshman Karla Portalatin.The Tritons then played another 
tough road match against a Division- 
I opponent on Saturday, traveling to 
the other side of town to USD.
The women’s tennis won the 
double point against USD, winning 
two out of three matches, but could 
not muster much in the singles, 
ultimately losing the game 6-1 to 
the USD Saturday at the Hogan 
Tennis Center.
The Tritons’ point came a fter 
wins in the No. 2 doubles and No. 
3 doubles. Junior Shannon Theisen 
and freshman Ashley Chao played a 
complete game in the No. 2 doubles 
to sweep senior Marta Stojanovic 
and senior Shani Blecher, 6–0. In 
the No. 3 doubles, the two freshmen 
Alexandra Weil and Madison 
Hale got the win in convincing fashion, defeating freshman Maria 
Torres Draxl and junior Colomba 
DiFilippo, 6–3.
UCSD’s number one double 
suffered another defeat, as they 
could not get anything going 
against senior Dana Oppinger and 
sophomore Drew Spinosa from 
USD. The final score was 6–2 in 
favor of USD.
All six of UCSD’s singles players 
lost, including Scott, who lost 6–2 
and 6–0 to Stojanovic at the No. 1 
spot in singles. 
UCSD opens its home season 
on Jan. 27 when it hosts San Diego 
Christian at 2 p.m.SPORTS12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , JANUARY 28, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
Written by Marcus Thuillier // Sports Editor
Photo by Megan Lee // Associate Photo Editor  
Tritons Start Season
with Three
WinsOnly loss is to rival UCSB at Santa Barbara InvitationalCONTACT THE EDITOR
MARCUS THUILLIER
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
UCSD vs. APU
On the first day of the UC Santa Barbara Winter Invitational, UCSD 
squared o ff against Azusa Paci fic. The Tritons got o ff to a hot start and 
defeated APU 15–7.
After opening up the game with a 3–0 lead, through goals from junior 
center Lauren Boyer, senior attacker Julia Kirkland and senior two-meter Alexis 
Wieseler, UCSD conceded one goal to make the score 4–1 a fter the first quarter. 
The Tritons continued the o ffensive onslaught during the second quarter, 
putting up another four goals and going 8–2 at hal ftime. They went up by nine at 
the beginning of the third quarter, and cruised to an eight point victory, 15–7.
Wieseler had a game-high five goals for the Tritons, with Kirkland and Boyer 
adding three and two, respectively. Senior goalkeeper, and UCSD’s all-time leader 
in saves, Courtney Miller had 11 saves during the first game. 
UCSD vs. No. 19 CSUN
The Tritons recorded their first upset win of the season when they took down 
No. 19 Cal State Northridge 10–9. 
“I’m very happy to have a 2–0 start to the year, ” UCSD Head Coach Brad 
Kreutzkamp told the UCSD Athletics Department. “With that said, we de finitely 
have room for growth and have a lot to work on. ”
Boyer and Wieseler led the charge early again, scoring all three goals of 
UCSD’s early 3–2 lead a fter the first quarter. Wieseler and Kirkland continued to 
be the usual suspects in the second quarter, putting two more on the board and 
leading UCSD to a 6–3 lead at hal ftime. 
The third quarter was dead even for both teams as UCSD and Cal State 
Northridge traded two goals each. Heading into the fourth quarter, UCSD was 
still holding a three-goal lead over Cal State Northridge. Despite allowing four 
goals during the final quarter, UCSD put in two of its own, getting away with a 
one-goal victory. 
“I am proud of our team for hanging on for the victory against a very tough 
Northridge team,” Kreutzkamp told UCSD Athletics Department.
Boyer added three goals to her tally of two on the day while Kirkland, 
Wieseler and senior attacker Laurel Kistler each put in two; Miller had another 
big game, recording 12 saves.UCSD vs. CSU Bakers field
UCSD had yet another fast start, going up 4-0 on Cal State Bakers field during 
the first period. Goals by senior attacker Emma Sasson, sophomore utility Kayla 
Fedler, Wieseler and Kistler paced the Tritons’ o ffense. The roles were reversed in 
the second quarter, as Cal State Bakers field put up three goals to close the gap to 
one at hal ftime. 
The Roadrunners and Tritons went back and forth during the third period 
and entered the fourth quarter at a deadlock 5–5.
Kistler and Kirkland led the Tritons o ffense once again to open up the fourth 
quarter. Bakers field put up a goal again to cut the de ficit to one but Wieseler 
stepped up and got another goal, putting the Tritons up by two. Despite a late 
goal from Bakers field, UCSD held up to get the 8–7 win. 
Wieseler continued to put up big numbers, scoring two goals. Kistler and 
Fedler also had two goals for UCSD, while Miller had eight saves.
UCSD vs No. 13 UCSB
Kistler opened up the score against the Gauchos on a powerplay. UC Santa 
Barbara equalized quickly and the two teams entered the second quarter tied at 
one. The Gauchos quickly took a two-goal lead in the second before Boyer and 
Wieseler answered with a goal each. UCSD su ffered another 2–0 run but Boyer 
once again scored, making it 5–4 in favor of UCSB at hal ftime. 
Kirkland and Wieseler continued their flamboyant weekend, scoring two 
more goals for UCSD in the third. However, UCSB also put up two and headed 
into the final frame with a one-goal advantage. 
The Tritons earned a penalty in the early fourth quarter, which Wieseler 
transformed. Only 14 seconds later, the Gauchos earned back their one-goal 
lead. Boyer equalized but UCSB continued to pressure the Tritons’ defense and 
answered back. Wieseler converted another penalty to make it an even 9–9 
with 1:30 to go in the game, but a goal by the Gauchos with only 41 seconds le ft 
sealed the deal for the host team and handed the Tritons their first loss of the 
young season. 
Wieseler and Boyer once again led the Tritons, scoring three goals each, while 
Miller continued the momentum from her previous performances by amassing 
eight saves. 
UCSD’s next game is on the road on Feb. 5 against USC in Los Angeles.No. 21 UCSD opened up the season at the UC Santa Barbara Winter Invitational. The Tritons went 3–1, recording wins against Azusa Paci fic, No. 19 Cal State 
Northridge, Cal State Bakers field and su ffering a bitter 10–9 defeat against the host No. 13 UCSB. They now hold a 3–1 overall record so far in the 2016 season. week  in
summar y
WOMEN'S
W A TER  POLO
WOMEN'S 
TENNISUCSD
UCSD
UCSDUCSD
UCSD
UCSDAPU
CSU BakersfieldCSUN
UCSB
USD15 - 7
15 - 7
1 - 610 - 9
10 - 9
1 - 6Cal State Fullerton
W. TENNIS
Tennis Loses Both Matches Against Tough Division-1 Opponents
UCSD can’t pull off upsets against Cal State Fullerton and University of San Diego, look forward to San Diego Christian on Wednesday.
Lauren Boyer was 
voted WWPA 
Player of the 
Week for the first 
time in her career.1
BY  d e v  j a i n
dev jain   UPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESW. Tennis
M. Volleyball
M. Tennis
W. Tennis
M. Tennis  1/27
  1/27
  1/30
  1/30
2/3VS San Diego Christian
VS Princeton 
VS Concordia
VS Concordia
VS Point Loma
PHOTO BY DUYEN NGUYEN/ GUARDIAN marcus thuillier   