MORE SECRETS 
INSIDE
“If you had a twin i would still 
choose you” - Words by RiRi, 
thought by Joselynn
WE HA VE  OPINIONS  GUY S
SPORTS SPORTS SPORTSREAD   THEM  & V ALIDA TE  US
wut  is  a  basket-ball?OPINIONZ P AGE 72
SPORTS
INSIDE
USUALLY A CORRECTION  .X
OPINION SOMETHING  ......X
WEEKEND/FEATURE  ........ X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW  ...XLOOK A T  P AGE  15
WHAT WERE THEY THINKING?
In an effort to improve the relationship 
between students and administration, UCSD 
Chancellor Pradeep Khosla has volunteered 
to serve as a therapy fluffy to help students relieve 
stress during the academic quarter.
Khosla’s press release stated that “immediate, 
affectionate interaction is needed to bring 
students and the UCSD administration closer 
together. ” Moreover, it boasted of the qualities 
that make University of California administrators 
inherently superior to dogs, citing “cleanliness, a 
longer lifespan and ease of house-training. ” 
Khosla, dressed head-to-toe in a Wilfred-esque costume, began his first day of service at 
The Zone this past Monday accompanied by one 
of the usual therapy-certified labrador retrievers. 
“The relationship between students and 
faculty has eroded in the past few years, ” Khosla 
told the UCSD Guardian on-site. “This is a 
chance to roll over the past, lay down some 
groundwork and breed that connection. ” 
Khosla cut the interview short when he 
noticed students playing with the labrador. The 
chancellor, in a fit of jealousy, wrestled the pooch 
away from the students and sat down in its place.
After seconds of uncomfortable silence, 
Khosla laughed it off before demanding the 
students to rub his belly.
A.S. President Dominick Suvonnasopa, who was present at the event, expressed hope that the 
program would be successful.
“UCSD is currently experiencing a mental 
health crisis, ” Suvonnasopa said. “If students 
petting their leaders is what it takes, then it’s time 
for them to dog-suit up. ”
Despite creating a general sense of unease among 
the day’s crowd, the chancellor gave it the old college 
try.
Khosla expressed his excitement over possibly 
transitioning into a full-time therapy fluffy in lieu of 
retirement. He was last observed fishing through the 
pockets of unaware students, claiming that it was for 
“supplemental tuition fees.”Khosla To Serve as UCSD’s Newest Therapy FluffyCaucasian Culture Club Protests Against 
Toxic Campus Climate
  B y       
good  bo y
BY  T H E  M A N  T H E  M Y T H  T H E  L E G E N D
KO LFR ED  UCSD’s Caucasian Culture Club held a pro -
test against the current campus culture on 
Library W alk today, citing a “toxic” climate 
that “makes it unsafe to express [their] beliefs. ” 
Over 50 individuals participated in the dem -
onstration, carrying various banners reading “NO 
MELANIN?? NO PROBLEM!!” , “WHITE IS 
ALRIGHT!” and “CRAVIN’ CAUCASIAN. ”
CCC President and appointed organizer of the 
protest Nathaniel Forrest spoke with the UCSD 
Guardian about the intentions of the demonstration 
and how his group has mistakenly been deemed a 
racist one.
“By promoting a doctrine of love, acceptance 
and tolerance between ethnicities here on campus, 
the university has generated an atmosphere hostile 
to our organization … which, from an outsider’s 
perspective, can seem intolerant of others, ” Forrest 
explained. “We feel threatened by this student cul -
ture. They call us intolerant, but who’s the intolerant one? We are demonstrating against the intolerance of 
a supposed “tolerant” student body in favor of toler -
ance for our own beliefs, which therefore makes us 
the tolerant one. ”
Forrest defended the CCC’s inclusive nature by 
pointing out that the organization accepts members 
“of a variety of skin shades, ranging from ‘sunburnt 
red’ to ‘over-roasted marshmallow. ’”
But despite his arguments, Forrest recognizes 
that the CCC could have the potential to be “micro-
racist, ” as micro-aggressions can be hard to define, 
and assured the Guardian that all people and groups 
are micro-racist in their own way, making the CCC 
no different from any other organization on campus.
Fellow protester and CCC member Kevin Crowe 
also commented on how the organization’s seemingly 
racist persona was all a big misunderstanding.
“Our organization has some faith, and we like to 
spread that faith through building projects, ” Crowe 
told the Guardian. “It used to be, construct a cross here, an overworked student forgets some rope there, 
and no one got hurt. But it’s unfortunate for us that 
sometimes a rope resembles a noose, and that, espe -
cially in this drought, wooden crosses tend to ignite 
when dry. ”
Despite superficial similarity in name to the 
Cross-Cultural Center, Forrest denied any involve -
ment or affiliation between the groups.
“We keep getting applicants who just aren’t up to 
our standards. I don’t understand why we keep get -
ting mistaken for the Cross-Cultural Center, and we 
would appreciate it if they addressed this issue. ”
Correction: Nathaniel Forrest has informed us 
that the correct spelling of the organization’s name is 
not Caucasian Culture Club, but in fact “Kaucasian 
Kulture Klub, ” a stylistic choice intended to “harken 
back to the Teutonic origins of the organization and 
many of its members. ” The Guardian apologizes for 
this error.VOLUME 69, ISSUE ( . Y . )         I NEED TO LEAVE, WHY IS SCHOOL NOT OVER 666  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN(NOT THE UK ONE).ORG
 
PHOTO BY RISSA CLEENAD2  THE UCSD DISREGUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MARCH 31, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  THESE THINGS HAPPEN  
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded 
by advertising. If you’re reading this, it’s too late. We dont 
actually hate our moms btw.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.orgBusiness Manager
Jennifer “MAKE IT RAIN” Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Thank You Myrah
Marketing Co-Directors
LOUD AND VOCAL PEOPLE
Training and Development Manager
RIDES SCOOTER TOO
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr. (TYSM)
A.S. Graphic Studio  Voncent Pham
Erotic Smut Writer
Jacqui and His Toster
Joshua
Bing Crosby 
He Did That
French Guy
Big Al
Karly Slay Jepsen
Legalized the Slider
Leave Britney Alone, Olga
SCOOTER
Rapunzel
JOSE
Only People Who Won’t Be 
JG ... No L
HERBSinglehandedly Desecrated 
Gender Binary
You Love it, Tina Writes It
Active Philosophy Major
 
Not White
 
Mom
Lana del Birthed Him
Never Casual
Snark Geologist
Prez, The 1975 Hate Club
Kanye’s Little Guy
Give ‘Er Some Room
Resident Voyeur
Has Moustache
I QUIT
Replaced By Machines
Autocorrect
SEASONS RABBITS
Page Layout
INTERNS
Copy Reader
INTERNS
Editorial Assistants
PLEBES
A team of UCSD researchers, 
in collaboration with the U.S. 
Department of Housing and 
Urban Development, have released 
genetically modified mosquitoes as 
a means of combatting the latest 
housing crisis. The mosquitoes, 
which will be unleashed upon 
civilians fifty-six times a week 
starting April 1, will be deployed 
in areas where housing prices have 
risen more than five dollars within 
the past year in an attempt to lower 
the cost of living.
James Housington, the HUD 
President, explained that the 
idea to use genetically modified 
mosquitoes as a means of making 
homes more affordable derives from 
the promising potential success of 
these mosquitoes in combatting the spread of the Zika virus.
“We had no real solution,” 
Housington admitted to the UCSD 
Guardian. “So we looked at a 
potentially devastating problem, 
examined its current solution and 
applied it to our issue. If we can use 
genetically modified mosquitoes to 
combat something as potentially 
dangerous as the Zika virus, it isn’t 
a far reach to suggest that they’ll 
likely become the go-to solution for 
all future crises. ”
Dr. Moe S. Quito, a researcher 
assigned to the task of creating 
modified mosquitoes suited to the 
housing crisis, explained to the 
Guardian the difficulties of applying 
a modification specifically suited to 
disease prevention to the housing 
market. 
“Our lab was three quarters 
of the way towards discovering a 
cure for lung cancer, ” Quito said. “So the mosquito question became 
less about finding a viable solution 
within these parameters and more 
focused on finding a quick solution 
that would allow us to return to our 
actual work. ” 
Quito clarified that the 
mosquitoes would be released in 
droves in an attempt to lower the 
populations of cities where housing 
prices increased anywhere from 
$4.75 to $5.00 in 2015. 
“We’ll be implementing CRISPR-
Cas technologies to create a super 
mosquito 10-20 times the size of 
an averagely sized person, ” Quito 
said. “These mosquitoes will have 
an increased affinity for human 
beings, prompting them to snatch 
up individuals interested in moving 
to cities where prices have increased 
and carry them off to the middle of 
nowhere. The more mosquitoes we 
can deploy, the less people in the affected housing markets and the 
further prices will plummet. ”
Janice Campell, director of 
UCSD’s Housing and Dining 
department praised HUD’s solution 
to the nationwide housing crisis and 
proposed that a similar tactic would 
benefit the undergraduate housing 
conflict at UCSD. 
“Not only would giant mosquitoes 
aid in reducing the population of 
students living on campus, but they 
could also provide a viable method 
of transportation for students on and 
off campus, ” Campell said. “Ideally, 
the mosquitoes would also solve the 
issue of overcrowded buses, picking 
snatching up students who’ve 
finished classes and dropping them 
off somewhere where the university 
wouldn’t be responsible for them. ”HAS SCIENCE GONE TO FAR?
Genetically Modified Mosquitoes Used to Combat Housing Crisis
Researchers discovered that subjects experienced alterations in their immune system after enduring stressful events.
BY  B R I T I S H  G I R L  B U T  N O T  R E A L L Y 
KARIT  The University of California Board of Regents 
announced that it has chosen to forgo the distribution 
of pensions in favor of new retirement benefits: Dave & 
Buster’s coupons.
UC President Janet Napolitano spoke with the UCSD 
Guardian about the rationale behind the announcement 
over several of D&B’s signature Angry Balls cocktails.
“The Board of Regents takes great pride in its keen 
understanding of what the UC workforce wants, ” 
Napolitano said, sipping from her third cocktail of the 
night. 
According to Napolitano, the proposal was being 
considered as early as eight years ago, but the economic 
recession delayed its implementation. 
“The recession hit Dave & Buster’ s pretty hard, ” Napolitano explained. “You can’t expect faculty to accept 
using these benefits if all the local D&B’s have gone 
under. That’s unfair to employees. ” 
After pounding down the rest of her drink, Napolitano 
stressed that coupons would be worth somewhere 
between 30 and 40 percent.
“We’ d push for more, but we’re not made of money, ” 
Napolitano slurred. “But let me tell you: This place is 
fucking worth it. ”
When asked about the fate of the money already paid 
into the pension system, Napolitano ignored the question, 
instead stumbling away towards the skeeball machine.
UC employees can expect the new retirement plan to 
take effect starting in June.Administration Replaces Faculty Pensions With Dave and Buster’s CouponsBRIEFS
OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MARCH 31, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
CONTACT THE EDITOR
THIS  WOMAN  RAISED  ME
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
build  a w all  around  i -house
CalTech, MIT, the Jimmy Neutron 
Academy of Self-Important STEM 
Majors — these are all science-focused 
universities that UCSD aspires to be.
However, one prickly group of 
individuals stands in our way of 
evolving into this 21st century dream, 
this morally devoid utopia: arts 
and hu...arts and human....arts and 
humanities major. There. I said it. 
Forgive me, Newton, for I have sinned 
and spoken the unspeakable. 
It is far overdue that we rid 
our campus of these idealistic, 
“morally and socially conscious” 
mongrols. They must be eradicated 
— nay, exterminated! The following 
departments are no longer useful to 
us as an academic institution: history, 
music, literature, philosophy, theatre & 
dance and visual arts. 
However, since we are scientists, 
we cannot just murder all these 
innocent, naive students. Imagine what 
consequences eliminating such a rare 
species would have on biodiversity. 
Their bodies —  for bodies are all we 
are — must be put to practical use. 
They must be offered to the altar of 
research. They must be sacrificed in 
the name of discovery! 1010011010!
That is why we, the UCSD 
Guardian Editorial Board, urge 
Chancellor Pradeep Khosla to 
immediately sign an Executive Order 
mandating that all laboratory rats be 
replaced with arts and humanities majors. We know it sounds disturbing, 
but it’ll be physical suffering at worst 
and death at best. It’ll be just like 
the Hunger Games, but without 
all the excessive fashion. And who 
doesn’t enjoy the Hunger Games 
(not counting those who actually 
participate)? May the odds be ever 
against their favor. 
Still not on board? Then, you 
must not be thinking of all the poor 
little mice that can be saved by this 
plan. One story we’ve been told is of 
a undergraduate research assistant 
whose job it was to drill holes in the 
skulls of rats. However, due to his 
incompetence — he probably enrolled 
in one too many Y oko Ono courses 
— he repeatedly missed his target and 
drilled into their brains instead, killing 
each of their poor little souls. Now 
imagine if the student was drilling into 
the brains of theatre majors instead. 
Though their brains might be harder 
to find than those of rats, we will 
ensure that by the end of this program, 
no brain of an arts and humanities 
major will be left hole-less!
We know this campaign to 
eliminate critical thinking from 
our campus may seem out of reach, 
but look around you, it’s already 
happening. Everywhere you turn, 
what do you see? A painting? No, 
you see the technological glory 
of a hoverboard whizzing past 
you on its way to mechanical thermobiochemphysiochem physics 
class. Pretty soon, each person will 
be riding one of these life-nourishing 
contraptions from science building 
to science building. And you know 
what they’ll be doing in each of these 
classes? Experimenting on arts and 
humanities majors. 
Furthermore, university officials 
— bless their souls with HCl — have 
already unofficially commenced 
this educational cleanse. They’ve 
caused more damage to the arts 
and humanities in a few years than 
what most research universities have 
dreamed of doing for decades. We at 
the Guardian applaud their daring 
accomplishments. Paint over the walls 
of Graffiti Hall. Check. Shut down 
the University Art Gallery. Check. 
Extinguish all enthusiasm for creative 
expression. Did someone finish their 
meal because CHECK.
To fully realize this paradise, 
our leaders must come out of their 
chemistry closets and confess their 
empiricist biases. No more beating 
around the HSS bushes. It is time 
for us to collectively and explicitly 
denounce those who are holding us 
back and bend them to our nature-
endowed will. It is time for us to say 
enough is enough with the one percent 
of our campus — arts and humanities 
majors — not pulling their own 
weight. It is time that we take them to 
the lab and pull it for them. It’s Time for UCSD to Replace Lab Rats with Arts and Humanities Majors
Runs Alcohol Cartel Specifically for 
Burritos Honestly Someone Shut 
This Down He Took the Cart We are 
ALL in the Trunk I don’t know How  We 
fit Seriously We’re in Arizona..,, this is 
OPpression Mom I love u 
HE TOOK US PLEASE SEND HELP
Another Lesbian? Another Lesbian.
THERE IS A FIRE HYDRANT  
She Danced Her Way In2 Our Heart
I’M KICKING THE BACK LIGHTS
Fuck This Guy Quinn I Hate Him 
HE IS SLOW , WE ARE GETTING AWAY
Pioneering and Invented Karate
HE TOOK MY IPHONE, THIS IS SF
Our Little Homophobe
HELP , WE’RE IN THE ‘STRO
He Saved Us
OLGA IS INHIBITING PROGRESS
Rock Freak, Geologically – Ew!
SHOUTOUT TO JACQUI THANK YOU
She Practically Invented U.S. Bread
WE’RE NOW IN A STARTUPEDITORIAL  BOARD
It’s just All I can think of is butter dripping down his beard, 
as how butter is filtered. This is simply a distillation process. I 
Wanna Smother Guy Fieri in his own exquisite seasoned sage 
barbeque saucy vat of grease I love howThis week, UCSD administration has announced its ambitious but highly 
controversial plan to build a wall around International House, a living-
learning community that hosts students from over 40 countries. Inspired 
by the immigration reform plan proposed by presidential candidate Donald 
Trump, the wall around International House facilities is a measure necessary to 
prevent international students, who largely come to UCSD to recklessly party 
rather than study, from spreading their deviant behavior around campus. This 
concrete construction should also discourage internationals who come to UC 
schools with lower grade-point averages and test scores than in-state students 
from enrolling into our top university.
What do we know about I-House? It is a place where people party regardless 
of the day of the week. This is where international students go to loosen drug 
and crime regulations that prevail in many countries, and are involved in 
underage binge drinking and drug abuse. It’s where study rooms are full of 
people foaming at the mouth with alcoholic beverages instead of preparing 
for tests, which international students have little concern for. As if that was 
not enough, dissolute behavior of international students annually peaks 
during the Sun God Festival weekend. Widely known as a drinking hot spot, 
I-House beckons innocent students from all over UCSD. Driven by drunken 
hooliganism, parties at International House turn into three-day bacchanalias 
that even professional security guards have a hard time controlling. 
“Let’s face it, the wristband policy does not work. I-House immigrants keep 
distributing alcohol and drugs around campus,” said Alphie Drumpf, a security 
guard who patrolled I-House during last year’s Sun God Festival. “These 
international students are out of control. We need a wall.”
 Hiding behind the claims of “cultural exchange,” international students not 
only promote immoral behavior, but also inculcate their own values instead of 
adopting traditional UCSD ways. As UCSD students, we are united by negative 
sentiments towards party culture. The majority of us came here because we 
prefer to stay home on a Friday night, find pleasure in being free from STIs 
and only drink together with a computer or a TV screen. I-House aliens, 
however, have little respect for our on-campus culture and perpetually attempt 
to undermine UCSD’s moral and cultural foundations by hosting degrading parties in their luxurious two-story townhouse apartments, being overly 
supportive of athletic events and abusing their close proximity to the beach 
by visiting it every week. Not once a year — every-single-week — you heard it 
right. Are we going to put up with this impudence or are we going to build the 
wall? The answer should be self-evident. 
Needless to say, these good-time Charlies do not excel in academics and 
simply occupy in-state students’ spots due to administration’s need for out-
of-state tuition money. Those who live in International House are just cash 
cows that, according to a recent California State Auditor report, have lower 
past academic achievements once they enter UCSD. Being intellectually 
inferior, international students still receive access to the same resources as 
in-state students and citizens, taking away educational opportunities from old-
fashioned, hard-working Americans. They have been taking advantage of this 
university for years, having some of the best living conditions on campus. The 
costs of providing academic resources to international students and maintaining 
International House have long exceeded the benefits we get from charging these 
students out-of-state tuition. But expelling these students would be a costly 
affair that might increase tuition for students from California. The wall ideally 
solves this problem by locking money-paying students in, while keeping them 
away from labs, libraries and gyms that rightfully belong to the native students.
A lot of criticism of the wall comes from students and their families’ 
unwillingness to pay for the wall through tax increases and additional fees. This 
concern is easy to deal with with — simplicity is genius. We will build the wall 
around I-House and make international students pay for it. Spending half a 
fortune each year on college tuition and fees, parents of international students 
will not even notice the new “Wall fee” and will happily pay, mistakenly 
assuming that they are investing in their children’s future. 
Building a wall around International House is the ideal solution to the 
problem of invasive immigrants, seeking to disguise themselves as international 
students in our country. We call for other UCs to follow UCSD’s example and 
build walls around the habitation areas of international students. This university 
will not be taken advantage of anymore. It’s time to stop losing to the losers, and 
start making America great agains.Wall Around I-House and its students is simply the most effective way to prevent greedy 
students from corrupting the success and sanctity of entire UCSD student body.
ILLUSTRA TION   B Y CHRISTINA CARLSONShame on 
Napolitano, 
Rigged 
Elections
From administration’s hushed 
installation of spyware on UC student 
and faculty devices earlier this year 
to the distinctly unpredictable A.S. 
campaign unfolding before us, it’s 
clear that something is up. This 
something — the UCSD Guardian 
Editorial Board confidently believes 
— has a name. It’s Janet Napolitano. 
If you recall, Napolitano and the 
University of California Office of the 
President installed — with taxpayer 
dollars — spyware systems across the 
UC system in an attempt to prevent 
breaches that happened at UCLA 
and at UC Berkeley. This gives them 
unfettered access to the searches of 
students and professors alike, certainly 
including search histories. It is with 
this data that Napolitano was able to 
hack into the Amazon wishlists of the 
candidates for UCSD’s A.S. elections, 
purchase every single luxurious, 
dreamy product — new editions of 
textbooks and Student Loan Coupons, 
to name a couple — and bribe 
candidates with the contents of their 
lists, in exchange for a dropout from 
the race. 
Some may initially question 
Napolitano’s motives, claiming that 
she wouldn’t bother with something 
trivial while she already has a secure, 
well-paying job. But one look into 
Janet’s background information tells a 
different story.
Before being the president of 
UC system, Napolitano worked 
as Arizona’s governor and as the 
Secretary of the the Department 
of Homeland Security from 2009 
to 2013. In late 2013, she took her 
current position on a dare from 
President Obama. They were playing 
a game of White House basketball 
when Napolitano told Obama she 
could out-dunk him and everyone in 
the Obama family. At that moment, 
Michelle emerged onto the court in a 
head-to-toe Adidas look, consisting 
of a gleaming white tennis skirt, tank, 
pair of Season 3 Y eezy Boosts and a 
necklace that said “Whose House?” , 
physically blinding Janet as she 
dunked not once, not twice, but 45 
times. 
Fast-forward to Napolitano as the 
UC president, regretting her naive 
bet with the Obama family, her exile 
to the UC system, and her ploy to get 
out of the institution without quitting 
or getting fired, as both would stain 
her  otherwise perfect resume. 
It is with this motive that Napolitano 
coerced — only partially successfully 
— the candidates of the A.S. election 
to drop out of the race, leaving UCSD 
to be in ruins, in chaos, in anarchy, 
and to slowly begin the demise of the 
university.
What’s worse is that Napolitano 
did not work alone. Have you heard 
of her accomplice and corroborator, 
Linda P .B. Kaheli? Y ou may know her 
as an administrator for DeVry, a for-
profit university for which she started 
working while being chancellor. 
We know that Napolitano said “I 
appreciate that Chancellor Katehi has 
apologized” in a statement reported 
by the L.A. Times, but what isn’t 
noted is that in sign language she was 
simultaneously saying what appears to 
be “Cuz my ass ain’t about to!”
What’s clear is that Napalitano 
manipulated Katehi into testing the 
waters for concurrent employment 
due to her greed. we have all been 
played by She Who Shall Not Remain 
as our UC president. VOLUME 49, ISSUE 42   THURSDA Y , MARCH 31, 2016  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
RUNNING 
TOWARD A CAUSE
WHILE STILL POWERED UP 
FROM THOSE SEVEN RESTFUL 
NIGHTS OF SPRING BREAK, 
USE YOUR ENERGY TO HOP 
THROUGH THE SCHOLARSHIP 
HUNT. FIND OUT HOW TO SIGN 
UP FOR A RAD RUN ON PAGE
SUPERMAN V S. BA TMAN
WOMEN'S TENNISso   bad   it's   good
Sonoma St a teWEEKEND,  P age   7
Sports,  P age  8
THURSDAY
H 66 L 52FRIDAY
H 66 L 52
SATURDAY
H 69 L 54SUNDAY
H 69 L 53
FORECAST
VERBATIM
AT THAT MOMENT, MICHELLE 
EMERGED ONTO THE COURT IN 
A HEAD-TO-TOE ADIDAS LOOK, 
CONSISTING OF A GLEAMING 
WHITE TENNIS SKIRT, TANK, PAIR 
OF SEASON 3 YEEZY BOOSTS AND 
A NECKLACE THAT SAID “WHOSE 
HOUSE?”, PHYSICALLY BLINDING 
JANET AS SHE DUNKED NOT 
ONCE, NOT TWICE, BUT 45 TIMES. 
MICHELLE OBAMA OUSTS 
NAPOLITANO FROM D.C.
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
TRIUMPHANT  .................. 6 
DISREGUARDIAN  ............. X
WEEKEND/FEATURE  ........ X
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU  ....X
A SOCCER BALL! WOW  ...XWEEKEND,  P AGE  6
USED WITH PERMISSION FROM TRITON 5K
A congressional committee 
investigating fetal tissue research 
stated last Thursday that it will issue 17 
subpoenas to research institutions — 
UCSD being one of them — in order 
to obtain the names of researchers, 
graduate students and others who are 
involved. The other subpoenas will 
be served to various medical facilities 
and labs around the country.  
As per the committee’s requests, 
UCSD has already provided the 
requested documents with many of 
the names redacted to preserve the 
anonymity of the researchers. 
According to the New Y ork Times, 
many universities feel that releasing 
the names of those involved in fetal 
tissue research would put them in 
danger, especially in light of Robert L. 
Dear Jr. ’s violent attack on a Planned 
Parenthood clinic which resulted in three deaths. 
Rep. Marsha Blackburn 
(R-Tenn.), who heads the committee, 
explained how the investigation 
is being approached in terms of 
business practices. 
“We are going to review 
the business practices of these 
procurement organizations and do 
some investigating of how they have 
constructed a for-profit business 
model from selling baby body parts, ” 
Blackburn said in an interview with 
the New Y ork Times.
The Energy and Commerce 
Committee created the panel after the 
release of a video covertly recorded 
by the Center for Medical Progress, a 
nonprofit group of citizen journalists 
dedicated to reporting on medical 
ethics and advances. The video shows 
Planned Parenthood Senior Director 
of Medical Services Deborah Nucatola 
in a lunch meeting with two people 
posing as potential fetus tissue buyers. According to a press release 
from October 2015, the House of 
Representatives voted to create 
the panel in response to the 
controversial material presented in 
the video. Blackburn emphasized 
the importance of opening up the 
dialogue about the morality and 
legality of fetal tissue research.
“This is about getting answers to 
questions about how we treat and 
protect life in this country, ” said 
Blackburn in the press release. “The 
allegations raised in these disturbing 
and abhorrent videos have led us to 
ask: What have we come to in this 
country? This select panel will allow 
us to have this conversation and help 
us get the facts about how infant lives 
are being treated. ”
Larry Goldstein, a prominent 
neuroscientist at UCSD who is 
heavily involved with research that A.S. Council 
Reorganizes 
Structure and 
MeetingsSTUDENTS
UCSD’s student government 
will split into an executive 
and a legislative branch to 
become more efficient. 
BY   m a r i o  e s p i n o z a
contributing writer
UCSD’s A.S. Council will divide 
its weekly meetings into two starting 
this quarter: one for its senators and 
another for its executives, which 
includes the president, vice presidents 
and associate vice presidents. 
Prior to this change, all members of 
A.S. Council met in the same meeting 
every Wednesday at 6 p.m. Campus-
wide Senator Ryan Perez explained 
to the UCSD Guardian that the 
Council decided to modify its meeting 
structure in order for its members to 
be more efficient and productive.
“The purpose of the shift was 
to let these bodies do their work 
without having to be in one long 
meeting together,” Perez said. 
“Instead of all being together for 
one large meeting, people will be 
able to collaborate outside of the 
general meeting. It promotes more 
interaction while creating a more 
efficient meeting environment. ”
Political bodies will also have 
different focuses during their 
respective meetings. The legislative 
body will vote on the budget. The 
executive branch will present cases 
in response to decisions made by the 
senate that affects an associate vice 
president’s office. 
A.S. Vice President of Campus 
Affairs Taylor Valdivia told the 
Guardian that the modified meeting 
schedule will allow for senators in the 
executive branch to prepare themselves 
prior to voting on any policies. 
“It allows representatives to attend 
meetings where their specializations 
are most utilized, ” V aldivia said. “For 
example, senators will be able to 
discuss constituent feedback during 
senate meetings prior to voting on any 
legislative items. ”
V aldivia also explained how the the 
split will affect AVPs by allowing them 
to work together during meetings.
“ An AVP will be able to reach 
out to other AVPs during a council 
meeting if he or she is looking launch 
a joint office project, ” Valdivia said. 
“Thus, the restructure will not 
only ensure that A.S. members are 
accountable for the work that they 
are doing, but will promote more 
personal growth and development. ”
Perez further explained that 
the separation will streamline the 
workload for AVPs.
“The separation will allow A VPs 
to attend only the meetings they 
need to, saving them time and giving 
them the opportunity to work more, ” 
Perez said. “The collaborations that C.H.E. Cafe Celebrates 
Anniversary of  Occupation
The C.H.E. Cafe hosted a vegan potluck to celebrate 
the first anniversary of the beginning of the C.H.E. 
Cafe sit-in and occupation, which protested the UCSD 
administration’s attempts to evict the building. Following 
Saturday’s potluck was a benefits concert for Groundwork 
Books, which was meant to strengthen the bookstore’s 
position in lease negotiations. 
Currently, the C.H.E. Collective is in the process of 
negotiating a new Master Space Agreement. According to 
University Centers Advisory Board Chair Claire Maniti, 
the new MSA will be based on a proposal made by 
the Co-op Advisory Committee, which is composed of 
representatives from all UCSD co-ops, including the 
C.H.E. Collective, A.S. Council, the Graduate Student 
Association and UCAB. In addition, Maniti told the 
Guardian that the need to create a new MSA is not a 
result of the C.H.E. Collective’s activities, but is because 
the leases of all of the co-operatives are expiring this year.
“We didn’t have any administrators at this committee 
and we met every week for an entire year and worked 
out terms for a new lease that we presented to the administration, ” Maniti said. “This was good because the 
student negotiation part of this was kind of the basis of 
where we are going to start with the MSA, but any of those 
terms are very much negotiable. ”
However, Maniti discussed that the Office of the 
Ombuds ensures that all parties involved in negotiations 
are able to freely communicate their terms.
“The way the Ombuds works is that no party has a 
greater voice, ” Maniti said. “They consider each party 
on equal footing which is probably a better place for the 
co-ops than if they were negotiating without a mediator in 
which case the footing is not equal. ”
Though the university retains the ability to evict the 
Cafe on short notice, Muir College senior and C.H.E. 
Collective core member Raquel Calderon does not believe 
administrators will evict the facility in the near future. 
“Y es, the university could legally post a new eviction, ” 
Calderon told the UCSD Guardian. “But we meet with 
them weekly, face to face, and are negotiating in good faith 
[that they will not evict the facility]. That’s all we have to 
go on at this point, but we’re working through it. ”B y  tina butoiu and jennifer grundman      Senior Staff writersCAMPUS
Congress to Issue Subpoenas for Scientists’ Names
Fetal-tissue researchers, including those at UCSD, will have to identify themselves to the government.See CHE CAFE , page 6
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
BY  b e c ca  c h o n g
STAFF WRITER
See COUNCIL , page 6 See CONGRESS , page 6PHOTO FROM GUARDIAN ARCHIVEShappen outside of meetings will drive 
a more productive council with more 
opportunities to work together instead 
of trying to fit it all into one meeting 
a week which is what happened in 
previous years. ”However, Perez was originally 
against the Council’s decision to split 
the meetings.
“I originally did not want to make 
this goal a priority of ours because 
I thought the process [of organizing 
the changes] would take away from 
our true purpose, that purpose being [to represent] UCSD students and to 
promote business and programing 
within UCSD, ” Perez said. “However 
the process was quick, and I was 
satisfied with the turnout. ”
Perez feels that the separation will 
have a positive impact on UCSD even 
if it is not apparent to students. “The students will most likely not 
notice the change, but the output 
will hopefully be felt in programs, 
initiatives, events and projects, ” 
Perez said.uses fetal tissue, has testified before 
Congress on the importance of fetal 
tissue research. In his testimony, he 
emphasized the scientific importance 
by describing the advances made in 
treatments for spinal cord injury, 
kidney generation and Alzheimer’s 
disease that could not have been 
discovered without the use of fetal 
tissue during research.
Founding Director of the UC 
San Diego Research Ethics Program Michael Kalichman explained 
the considerations that go into 
providing fetal tissue for research, 
particularly the circumstances of 
the woman’s abortion. 
“If an abortion occurs, then is it 
ethically better to discard the fetus or 
to make use of it for the purpose of 
medical research?” Kalichman asked 
the UCSD Guardian. “Most people 
would probably favor the latter, but 
only under certain circumstances. 
In particular, no one would want a 
woman to choose to get pregnant for the purpose of having an abortion 
to contribute the fetus to research, 
and no one would want to have a 
woman feel coerced or pressured into 
having an abortion for the purpose 
of donating her fetus to research. 
The good news is that the laws and 
standard practice are designed to 
avoid these scenarios. ” 
Goldstein explained that the 
controversy surrounding the usage of 
fetal tissue might be better understood 
if framed in terms of being resourceful 
and limiting waste. “I think the core message is that 
the research that is being done is being 
done with tissue that would have been 
discarded anyway, ” Goldstein told the 
Guardian. “ And so there’s no real 
change with the disposition with the 
tissue; it’s a question of will it be 
thrown away or will it be donated 
to research, and if it’s donated to 
research we believe we can do useful 
things with it. ”5 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MARCH 31, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
TRIUMPHANT By Alex Liang
The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. Today we celebrated Sam Thoburn, a former 
writer for the Opinion Section. No, he is not dead. He’s just 21.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Marketing Co-Directors
Peter McInnis, Haley Asturias
Training and Development Manager
Cedric Hyon
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Vincent Pham
Tina Butoiu
Jacky To
Josh Lefler
Cassia Pollock 
Quinn Pieper
Marcus Thuillier
Dev Jain
Allison Kubo
Oliver Kelton
Karly Nisson
Sam Velazquez
Brittney Lu
Olga Golubkova
Megan Lee
Christian Duarte
Joselynn Ordaz
Christina Carlson
Sophia Huang
Jennifer Grundman
Sage Schubert ChristianEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
News Editor
 
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Associate Opinion Editor
Sports Editors
Features Editor
Associate Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Art Editors
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Quinn Pieper, Aleya Zenieris
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim, Alicia Ho, Agnus Song
Editorial Assistants  
Naftali Burakovsky, Lisa Chik, Maria Sebas, Nathan WalkerUCSD Neuroscientist Testified Before Congress to Defend the Benefits of Fetal Tissue for Research
Perez: A.S. Council Will No Longer Have to Cram All Agenda Items Into a Single Meeting▶ CONGRESS,  from page 5
▶ COUNCIL,  from page 5becca chong   rcchong@ucsd.edu
mario espinoza   mae001@ucsd.eduManiti confirmed that all 
negotiating parties  are aiming to 
finalize the new MSA by Week 8 
this quarter. She also stated that the 
university has spent $350,000 on 
installing a fire sprinkler system to 
the facility and on improvements that 
will help it meet the standards set by 
the American Disabilities Act. UCSD 
Communications Manager Christine 
Clark confirmed to the Guardian 
that administrators will continue 
working on the facility throughout 
the summer.
C.H.E. Cafe Attorney Andrea 
Carter told the Guardian that the 
C.H.E. Collective requested an 
interim agreement to secure the 
Collective’s position on campus while the lease was being negotiated. 
However, the university has 
remained unresponsive. 
“Despite [the university not 
responding to their request], we have 
great hope and optimism that we 
will finally emerge with a new and 
acceptable lease for all four co-ops, ” 
Carter wrote. “Overall we are pleased 
that the university has finally begun 
to recognize that the co-ops are 
unique and valuable institutions on 
campus that serve multiple functions 
beyond great entertainment, food, 
wares and literature. ”
The C.H.E. Collective Campus 
Reintegration Committee was 
formed as part of a measure A.S. 
Council passed in Winter Quarter 
2015 to help the Collective become 
more student-centered. Though the Collective opposed some parts of 
the measure, such as the vacating 
of the Cafe during renovations, 
part of its purpose is to ensure that 
members of the Committee could 
approve any physical changes to the 
Cafe before being implemented by 
the administration. 
Paolo Gabriel, a graduate student 
and member of the Committee, told 
the Guardian that the Committee 
has been necessary in including the 
C.H.E. Collective in the new MSA.
“Our role is more just to be the 
ones that are informed between the 
administration, A.S. Council, GSA 
and the C.H.E. Cafe because, if there 
are any confusions, at least there’s 
someone that can step up and clarify 
things, ” Gabriel told the Guardian. 
“I think so long as the C.H.E. Cafe gets onto this new MSA agreement, 
the [Committee’s] job will be done. 
The point of the Committee was to 
make sure the C.H.E. survives as 
a student organization rather than 
being dropped as a co-operative. ”
Calderon confirmed to the 
Guardian that the C.H.E Facility will 
be suspending operations for the 
summer.
“In order for the repairs to happen 
to the [C.H.E.] we will be closing 
and not holding concerts for about 
a 2–3 month period, planned for the 
coming summer, ” Calderon said. “It 
would be after final exams for Spring 
Quarter, so after June 12. ”Carter: The C.H.E. Collective Feels Optimistic About Negotiations Regarding Lease Agreement 
TINA BUTOIU   CBUTOIU@ucsd.edu▶ CHE CAFE,  from page 5
See more at UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG6     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MARCH 31, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
Secret Swings
Written by Maria Manalang // Lifestyle Staff Writer
Photo courtesy of Nosha (Flickr)
Think back to humble, innocent days of youth. Let your 
thoughts simmer on the sunny, stress-free days when chocolate 
milk was a staple, nap time was socially acceptable and the 
playground was squad’s homebase. Y es, the slide and monkey 
bars were fun, but the swing-set was the optimal location for 
budding friendships through good conversation (as good as 
conversations among five-year-olds can get), vibrant laughter, 
and the joy of mindlessly swinging. Adulthood might legally 
begin at 18, but that doesn’t mean you need to allow your 
inner child to pathetically die away. Relive and revive the 
bright memories of elementary school and make the trek to 
the Secret Swings. Just as the name implies, the mystical swing 
set is quietly nestled somewhere in the La Jolla backyard. The 
search for the hidden swings is in itself a thrilling escapade 
to ignite and satiate your inner drive for adventure. It makes 
for an interesting option to spice up your weekend plans with 
friends, or makes for a conveniently close and exceptional date 
option when paired with a picnic during sunset. The swings 
are situated against the always-breathtaking backdrop of the 
Pacific Ocean, adding to their allure. There are no written 
directions for this local gem. Instead, those searching for the 
Secret Swings have but longitudinal and latitudinal coordinates 
(the first swing approximately at 32.867478, -117.248968 while 
the second at 32.864321, -117.247991). This makes the voyage 
that much more exciting than simply driving to your local park 
and playing with individuals half your size. Since not too many 
venture to these swings, you won’t need to wait your turn. But 
remember, sharing is caring — so bring a friend and share the 
experience that is this hidden La Jolla jewel. Cabrillo National Monument CaVE 
Written by Brittney Lu // Lifestyle Co-Editor
Photo courtesy of Slworking2 (Flickr)
If the five-hour wait to take a selfie on top of Potato 
Chip Rock to Snapchat just how adventurous life in San 
Diego can be isn’t cutting it anymore, Cabrillo National 
Monument in the San Diego County offers a much 
more provocative and enticing adventure for the inner 
adrenaline junkie. Situated in a Bermuda Triangle of 
uncharted territory, high tides and fragile sedimentary 
cliffs, the secret caves located down an unmapped trail 
toward the tidepools at the bottom of the cliffs are 
worth the rather treacherous, daunting trek. Not only is 
the technical footwork of a pointe ballerina needed to 
maneuver the rocky path — or lack thereof — but the 
mathematical precision and professional lunar skill of 
a navigator is highly recommended to reach this secret 
treasure of the Pacific at a safe and accessible sea level. 
Past venturers recommend careful planning to discern 
high versus low tide times, caution even when taking 
the tried-and-tested path toward the no man’s land, as 
well as constant awareness of the surroundings — not 
only to preserve your own life, but the lives of all of the 
sea creatures and foliage occupying the cave. While the 
entirety of the journey is a mere mile, the expedition 
is much more similar to sprinting down Snake Path 
blindfolded than taking a quick jaunt down Library Walk, 
sans tablers and hoverboards. Nevertheless, if timing, 
technique and lack of timidity are your specialty, this 
hidden gem is worth the risk.Suspension Bridge
Written by Brittney Lu // Lifestyle Co-Editor
Photo courtesy of Wikimedia Commons
Mostly known for its hipster cafes serving five-dollar, organic, 
fair-trade drip honey lattes, thrift stores selling everything from 
grandma carpet bags to faux-leather fringe vests and breweries 
featuring local beers, artisan hors d’ oeuvres and underground 
musicians, Hillcrest County of San Diego is the last place one 
would consider to be home to a suspension bridge overlooking 
a canyon. The Spruce Street Suspension Bridge, towering over 
a mountainous divide that geographically bars the growing 
neighborhoods from the newly-constructed public transit lines 
in the heart of Hillcrest, is an urban piece that literally bridges 
the gap between the underdeveloped and the development 
in-progress. While being a well-known icon for the true natives 
of Hillcrest, this bridge has been a playground for a handful of 
Hillcrest inhabitants, but for others it appears to be a displaced, 
unheard-of urban phenomenon. Those familiar to this bridge 
warn that it’s not for the faint of heart, especially for those fearful 
of heights, bridges or, really, anything with a pendulum-like 
motion — although many also argue that the company kept in 
this adventure determines the fear factor. In other words, go with 
a crew that is supportive and will cheer you across the bridge, 
not one that will jump wildly on opposite sides of the bridge, 
intentionally trying to sway you. Originally designed to be a 
pedestrian haven and mode of walkability, the bridge is now a 
hidden secret of San Diego’s architectural landscape. So the next 
time you’re heading to Hillcrest to pick up $50 worth of fancy 
stationery or a $15 croissant and macchiato combo, stop by the 
Spruce Street Suspension Bridge to get a taste of adventure above 
the metropolis. San Diego is a place of iconic landmarks, historic monuments and signature eateries, but there is so much left to uncover. 
From hidden enclaves unknown to even the oldest of natives to sequestered vista points, follow the UCSD Guardian as we 
uncover the secrets to San Diego’s backyard. Secrets of San Diego 
Muir Musical is back at it again — not just with the spotlights on the white Vans, but rap, hip-hop 
and the National Tour set of “In The Heights. ” That’s right. The Muir Musical Ensemble of UCSD, 
partnered with A.S. Council, are staging the Tony Award-winning musical — music and lyrics by 
“Hamilton”’s Lin-Manuel Miranda and writer Quiara Alegria Hudes — set in Manhattan, New Y ork. 
Washington Heights, to be exact, a Latin American suburb where narratives converge. Couple this 
ready-to-change neighborhood with a winning lottery ticket and some musical numbers — from hip-
hop to salsa! — and you’re ready to have a rockin’ , dance-filled summer in New Y ork.
Let’s rewind: the National Tour set? Y ou’re correct. Go ahead. Pull up a smartphone and Bing! away 
at the search bar — that low-resolution suddenly becomes real-life resolution when the curtains part 
and that set is waiting there for you, in all of its glory. Seriously, that set is a beauty to behold; it took 
nearly a week to construct all of it. The details are meticulous down to the shelves, the brick walls and 
even the Washington Bridge. All of this is done in wonderful synergy for that picturesque National 
Geographic, nature documentary — except, well, this is Theatre. 
If, for some reason, you’ve accustomed yourself to the post-class rush and are an avid consumer 
of buying your seats at the very last minute, you might want to hurry over to the UCSD Box Office. 
Tickets are free for UCSD students, and the weatherman and resident astrologist predict they could 
run dry very quickly, so grab your tickets at the UCSD Box Office today. As beautiful as it is to lounge around watching endless reruns of “Parks and Rec, ” sipping on a glass of Two-Buck Chuck 
— or Martinelli’s sparkling cider for all the minors out here — there is something so rewarding in knowing that you have 
finally gotten off the couch to partake in, wait for it … exercise. And if this generally undesirable occurrence happens to 
be just a once-a-year anomaly, the annual Triton 5K is your time to shine. For athletes of any and all stages, this 3.1-mile 
“race” through UCSD’s campus is the perfect opportunity to run, walk, sprint, dance or hop your way through all of UCSD’s 
iconic landmarks and across all ranges of terrain. 
Established 20 years ago by former Chancellor and UC President Bob Dynes, this fun course was designed to help fund 
student scholarships while providing a means for students, staff, faculty and families to engage in healthy lifestyles. Not to 
mention, the entire course is pet-friendly. Either individually, or in teams, the 5K is a chance to not only show off athletic 
ability, but fashion sense through creative costumes or decorative running shoes. Still not convinced? The Triton 5K also 
provides plenty of opportunities to be a volunteer to encourage those sprinting the 3.1 miles, hand water to joggers or 
simply provide entertainment for those passing by. 
What’s more, is that complimentary admission will be given to incoming students who SIR on Triton Day so they can 
experience the UCSD community and geography firsthand. For everyone else, while this Sunday, April 4 at 11:59 p.m. is 
the last opportunity to register online, registration will still take place the morning of the race itself on Sunday, April 10 at 
9 a.m. near North Point Lane in front of Spanos Athletic Training Facility, so there is really no excuse to opt out. For entry, 
there is a $10 fee for students, $35 fee for staff and faculty and $40 fee for the general San Diego community, which not only 
helps fund student scholarships but covers the cost for a Triton 5K shirt, gear bag and finish-line festival. So as appealing 
as spending the next few weekends in front of Netflix may seem, the Triton 5K is the perfect opportunity to explore more 
of campus during the peak of spring. 
Written by Christian Gerard Gella // Lifestyle Senior Staff Writer
Photo courtesy of Muir MusicalWritten by Brittney Lu // Lifestyle Co-Editor
Photo courtesy of Triton5K
Muir Musical  Triton 5K
 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MARCH 31, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
The editing is cluttered, the writing 
is unfocused and the characters 
are underdeveloped.
Though indeed accurate and 
virtually undeniable, these points 
have been so savagely exhausted by 
critics that nothing more will be said 
about them here. This review will 
instead center on the most fulfilling 
features of “Batman v. Superman: 
Dawn of Justice. ”
The first and most satisfying 
thing you can do with this movie is 
revel in the brutal cynicism that is 
Ben Affleck’ s Batman. Despite the 
character’s cultural reputation, this 
iteration can only be defined as a 
hero in the most generous sense of 
the word. His disregard for the well-
being of criminals is apparent: He 
beats, brands and even kills. Does 
he still care about saving people? 
If it doesn’t inconvenience him, 
maybe. But it’s more a habit than it 
is an effect of his conscience. This 
spirit, or lack thereof, represents 
exactly the kind of departure that 
a new Batman needs, especially 
following the unbreakable moral code of Christian Bale’s Batman.
Moreover, his gripe with the Man 
of Steel, who is flying in his skies, 
destroying his buildings and killing 
his people, is absolutely justified. 
Though all of this is a byproduct of 
Clark Kent trying to save humanity, 
it is nonetheless disconcerting — one 
might even think wrong — that he 
does it on his own accord and refuses 
to conform to the democratic will of 
any nation or people. Bruce then sets 
out to do what a sensible and brave 
man would do to an all-powerful alien 
wreaking havoc upon his planet and 
people: bring him to heel. 
Almost as compelling is Jesse 
Eisenberg’s Lex Luthor, who 
lends his man-child hands and 
personality to orchestrate the conflict, 
painting it as his own sadistic, self-
empowering opera. Some criticize his 
characterization of the iconic villain 
as being too cartoonish. However, a 
reasonable man would praise it for 
being committed and unique. Sure, 
we don’t get a precise explanation 
as to why he acts so eccentrically, but we knew nothing of the Joker’s 
background in “The Dark Knight” 
either, yet his kookiness earned 
unanimous praise as well as an Oscar.
Fianlly, Wonder Woman, 
portrayed sufficiently by pseudo-
actress Gal Gadot, is also a welcome 
supplement to the otherwise male-
centric drama. She’s both cunning and 
independent, qualities that the movie’s 
other female characters direly lack. 
Lois Lane, for example, is an empty 
vessel whose sole purpose is to follow 
her “journalistic impulses” into danger 
so that her superpowered hubby can 
rescue her. She is a disservice to the 
character and, more generally, women 
in cinema. 
Anyways, returning to this 
review’s theme of positivity, “Batman 
v. Superman” is exciting and even, at 
times, intellectually intriguing. One, 
mainly scholars, might call it a “cool-
ass movie. ” Y es, its flaws are plentiful 
and apparent —  no one would fault 
you for noticing them — but, for 
some, the implications of the titular 
conflict will be just enough.
— Jacky  to
Senior Staff Writer
Ba tman  v.  superman
Directed by   Zack Snyder
Starring   Ben Affleck, Henry Cavill 
Rated  PG-13
Release Date  March 25
The movie seems to be directed by a child, which is 
both hugely disastrous and sufficiently satisfying.PHOTO COURTESY OF ACESHOWBIZ
FILM   REVIEW SEPT.   5TH
by   DVSN
Release Date March 27
dvsn stands on the precipice of perfection.ALBUM   REVIEW
Existing in the space between the 
‘90s and the current R&B scene, 
dvsn’s “SEPT . 5TH” is a master in 
bridging generational sonic gaps. 
Having appeared out of nowhere 
last October on OVO Sound Radio, 
dvsn immediately became an object 
of public mystery — what was this 
mysterious group or artist with two 
phenomenal songs doing? Forming 
an identity that admonishes its cabal 
of influences, dvsn’s aura is informed 
by the classic slow jams of Ginuwine 
all the way to the spastic visions of 
Nao. The woozy aesthetic of the post-
Weeknd era isn’t cut down but rather 
fused with sharp synths and strums by 
producer Nineteen85, who forms dvsn 
alongside songwriter-turned-singer 
Daniel Daley. 
“SEPT . 5TH” serves as a strong 
showcase for both producer 
and vocalist, both working in 
arrangements meant to stretch their 
abilities and prove their versatility 
in only 10 tracks. The economy 
of the tracklist places great weight 
on an album for great consistency; 
every song counts. Luckily, there’s an 
effortless chemistry between the two, 
a natural result of their longstanding 
friendship.“Try / Effortless” has a 
cycling buildup of light snares that 
excites and tapers off with the song’s 
slow turn into a drawling, breathy 
outro, but the power of the song lies 
in its simple but no-less-mesmerizing 
hook. Daley’s singing speaks to the 
heart with its arresting richness 
and sensuality. He cruises through 
inflections on a whim, able to ride the 
soulful keys of “ Angela” that has him laying down vocals worthy of a gospel 
choir or grippingly belting out halfway 
through “The Line. ”
Their greatest weakness lies in 
writing, often victim to groaners and 
hardheaded lines like “I could make 
it better/ if I could have sex with you” 
on the titular track “Sept. 5th. ” The 
otherwise-great “ Another One, ” with 
its warbling guitar and oscillating 
synth backbone, has a brief lapse 
in focus when Daley croons, 
“Sometimes we take our clothes 
off/ and find the naked truth. ” His 
conviction keeps the song from 
sputtering as it’s repeated each time, 
redeeming the line by delivering one 
of the catchiest hooks on the album. 
Slight embellishments like these 
speak to the sublime, meticulously 
constructed soundscapes of 
Nineteen85, who has proven to be 
one of the best producers in pop by 
sheer virtue of his versatility, making 
it hard for his beats to be identified 
by any one signature sound.
The group’s relative obscurity 
is beguiling and now sure to be 
short-lived. What was born as an 
ambitious project from the humble 
producer behind “Hotline Bling” 
has managed to deliver one of the 
year’s best albums. Tucked away in 
the dawn of spring, “SEPT. 5TH” is 
the harmony that results when artists 
work perfectly in tandem.
—   Sam  velazquez
A&E Associate Editor B-B+SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
MARCUS  THUILLIER & DEV JAIN
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MARCH 31, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
On Saturday at the Merritt College tennis courts in Oakland, 
the No. 17 UCSD men’s tennis team handily dispatched No. 
32 Holy Names 7–2. UCSD improved its record to 11–6 on 
the season.
The Tritons had a 2–1 lead after the doubles matches and would go 
on to win five of the six singles matches.
In No. 1 singles, sophomore Eric Tseng captured his third straight 
win, defeating freshman Hugo Colpart 4–6, 6–0 and 7–6. It was Tseng’s 
fourth match in the No. 1 spot. With an impressive win streak of his 
own, sophomore Justin Zhang earned his seventh straight victory at 
the No. 2 spot, beating senior Andrew Armor 6–3 and 6–1.
At No. 3, junior Alexandre Miaule defeated junior Matthew Halligan 
6–7, 6–3 and 6–4 in three sets while No. 4 freshman Rodrigo Amaral 
and No. 6 freshman Richard Han earned decisive straight-set victories.  
In doubles, Miaule and senior Horea Porutiu raised their season 
record to 12–3 by taking care of senior Adam Duong and junior Ivan 
Parra 8–6 at No. 2. Amaral and Zhang teamed up at No. 3 to down 
Armor and freshman Bernardo Moraes 8–6 as well.
Holy Names University won the No.1 doubles match as Colpart and 
Halligan defeated Tseng and senior Axel Bouillin at 8–10. 
The Tritons will look to earn their third straight victory when they 
face off against Concordia in Irvine on March 30. UCSD won the last 
matchup 8–1 in La Jolla on Jan. 30.
Dev Jain   dajain@ucsd.edu
gurkira t singh   sglantz@ucsd.eduThe UCSD women’s tennis team took down Sonoma State and won 7–2 this 
past Easter Sunday. 
No. 22 UCSD (10–8) took an early lead as it swept Sonoma in all three 
doubles matches. Senior Kyra Scott and sophomore Britta Mosser, UCSD’s 
top doubles team, proved why they are ranked No. 25 in the country, as they 
defeated Sonoma’s top doubles team 8–6. Mosser went on to win her singles 
match after a three-set battle with Sonoma State’s junior Jordyn Kearney, 
winning her first set 6–0, losing her second 5–7 and then triumphing in 
the last set with 11–9. Meanwhile, UCSD’s standout Scott, playing in the 
top singles spot, saw her eight-match winning streak come to an end as she 
dropped her singles match to Sonoma State’s freshman Jensyn Warren 6–2 
and 6–3. Freshman Ashley Chao and junior Shannon Theisen, however, won 
8–5 in their doubles match as their teammates, freshmen Madison Hale and 
Alexandra Weil, went on to crush their opponents in doubles 8–1. 
Sophomore Jasmine Hosseini, Weil and Hale continued their streaks and 
eventually went on to win their singles matches against their Sonoma State 
counterparts. After UCSD’s victory at Sonoma, the Tritons remain ranked No. 
22 in the nation and No. 4 in the West region. UCSD will host University of 
Nevada at Reno on Thursday, March 31 at 2 p.m. 
Tritons Split Four Games vs CSULA
UCSD give up two runs in the bottom of the 11th, lose 3–2 in a close showdown.
Written by Dev Jain Sports Editor  // Photo by Jonathan Gao 
Written by Samantha Glantz Senior Staff Writer  // Photo by Duyen Nguyen Tritons improve to 10-8
UCSD dominate Sonoma State, look forward to Nevada nextW. Tennis
W.Water Polo
M. Volleyball
Baseball
W.Water PoloUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESVS Nevada
VS Chico State
AT USC 
VS Stanislaus State
VS Cal State East Bay 3/31
4/2 
4/2
4/3
4/3SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MARCH 31, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
Dr. Terranova, Dr. Sherman, and Dr. Horne
TORREY PINES
DENTAL ARTS
We welcome UCSD Staff & Students
Richard L Sherman DDS
Steven B. Horne DDS
Scripps/Ximed Medical Center
9850 Genessee Avenue #720
La Jolla, CA 92037
858-453-5525
Info@TorreyPinesDentalArts.com
www.TorreyPinesDentalArts.com'"! $! $
$""
'"	!# !
'%""!
 !
'
!&!! #!
 " !! "	!
"	#!
V
D
T
E
H
V
B
S
E
J
B
O

P
S
HYOUR
NEWS
NOW!
The UCSD men’s volleyball team had a bit of a rough weekend. Entering the weekend with 
a 5–17 record, the Tritons looked to upset the stellar No. 3 BYU Cougars in back-to-back 
matchups on Friday and Saturday night. Although some of the individual sets were close, the 
Tritons could not do anything to stop the Cougars as they were swept in both matches, dropping 
to a 5–19 overall record.
Game One:
To start out the game, the Cougars had their way against the Tritons, quickly going up 4–1, after 
which they remained in control of the set. UCSD made it close with some quick scores thanks to 
a kill by sophomore opposite Tanner Syftestad and an attacking error by the Cougars, allowing the 
team to pull within three points. Afterwards, however, BYU regained control by scoring in bunches 
and then stormed to a decisive 25–18 set victory.
The Tritons showed no signs of backing down, however, and the team came out on fire in the 
second set, largely due to three kills by Syftestad which allowed the team to take a 10–6 lead early 
on. UCSD held the lead up until a kill by BYU sophomore middle blocker Price Jarman tied the 
game, but Syftestad responded with another kill to put the Tritons back on top, giving UCSD the 
lead again with a score of 17–16. From then on, the game became a back-and-forth affair, requiring 
the set to go into extra points, where the Cougars eventually squeaked by with a 26–24 victory.
With what would become the final set of the night, the Cougars appeared to have figured out the 
Tritons’ superpowers and built up to a 12–3 lead early in the set. But, just when it looked like the 
Cougars would run away with the set and the match, the Tritons proved to still have some fight left 
in them. Scoring in chunks for the remainder of the match, they were able to put themselves right 
back into the game, thanks to some multi-point scoring runs that would put them within reach of 
a score of 20–22. Unfortunately, the Cougars still had just enough left in the tank to close out the 
set with a 25–21 victory.
Even with the Tritons battling hard, the Cougars definitely had the upper hand throughout the 
match, leading in attack percentage during every set, with an overall attack percentage of .289 (42-
14-97), compared to the Tritons’ .219 (39-18-96). Junior outside hitter Ian Colbert and Syftestad led 
the team with 11 kills apiece, while senior outside hitter Kirill Rudenko had a team high 11 digs.
“We battled hard and really competed, ” UCSD Head Coach Kevin Ring told the athletics 
department. “We had some opportunities, especially in that second set. We felt like we left some 
plays on the court. ”
Game Two:
The very next night, the Tritons were given another chance to take down the Cougars, but 
unfortunately for the Tritons, the games weren’t any closer. 
From the very beginning, the Cougars got out to a hot start, nearly pushing their lead to double 
digits after pulling ahead 16–8 halfway through the set. While the Tritons turned up the intensity, 
outscoring the Cougars 11–9 for the rest of the set, the Cougars were still able to pull away with a 
25–19 victory.
In a nice change of pace, the Tritons were able to hang in there with the Cougars to start the second set, preventing BYU from dominating the scoreboard. But, after tying the score 6–6, the 
Tritons couldn’t build on any of their momentum and allowed the Cougars to go on countless 
scoring runs, after which the Cougars wound up demolishing the Tritons 25–13.
Just like the night before, the Tritons would not concede the game without a fight. Once again 
stopping the Cougars from speeding ahead with an early lead, the Tritons fought tooth and nail 
with the Cougars in a back-and-forth duel for just about the entire set. A late kill by Colbert cut 
their deficit to two in a 16–18 match, but the Cougars would not allow them to get any closer. 
However, even when the Cougars began to pull away, their lead was no greater than six points, 
as the Tritons fought hard the entire match, despite dropping to the Cougars one last time 21–25.  
Once again, the Tritons were outplayed by the Cougars, amassing a meager team attack 
percentage of .198 (30-13-86) compared to BYU’s excellent .402 (46-13-82). Still, Colbert had a 
strong showing of 12 kills off an attack percentage of .379 (12-1-29), while freshman setter Ryan 
Blaich led the team in assists and digs with 13 and six respectively. 
With the losses, the Tritons fell to 5–19 overall on the season and 0–18 in the Mountain Pacific 
Sports Federation, whereas the Cougars rose to 19–3 overall and 15–3 in MPSF play. The Tritons 
will embark on their final road trip of the season with their game against California Baptist on 
Friday, April 1.
Alex Wu   adw006@ucsd.eduUCSD Swept In Both Matches
Tritons dominated by No. 3 BYU, will have final road trip next week.
BY  A l e x  W u
staff writerVOLLEYBALL
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE /UCSD GUARDIAN10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MARCH 31, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDS$
Gua rdian Classifieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifieds
BIKES
A Simple Bike - $10. Bike has been sitting 
on the patio for at least a year. Tires need 
air. Just never use it. Listing ID: 248020893 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Nishiki Mariscopa Road Bike - $275. New 
Nishiki road bike used twice. I bought it 
at Dick’s for $799 and ended up getting 
another bike. Listing ID: 248020889 at ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mationSchwinn Bike with Lots of Extras - $300. 
Schwinn bike for sale! We bought it in 
mid-January. Listing ID: 248020887 at ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more infor -
mation
ELECTRONICS
Flat Screen TV - $90. 32 inches. In terrific 
condition. Comes with a remote. Listing ID: 
248020967 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more informationComplete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies 
on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.ukLevel: 1234 Level: 1234
SUDOKU
Poster Printing 
Color CopIES
Print PDF Files
 ULTRAZONE LASER
TAG IS HIRING! 
CAL COPY  Course Reader Printing 
Post Office • USPS • FedEx  
DHL International  WE ARE LOOKING FOR OUR 
NEXT GREAT EMPLOYEE for 
WEEKENDS and for SUMMER.  
Are you hard working? 
Dedicated? Really outgoing?  
You can actually have an 
exciting job!
858-452-9949
www.calcopy.comContact us at 
employment@
ultrazonesandiego.com.(across RockBottom)
State your name and contact cell number.Akai Professional LPK25 Keyboard  - $30. 
Still in good condition. Works perfectly fine 
and comes with the USB port. Listing ID: 
248020964 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Astro A40s Xbox One Gaming Headset - 
$130. Still in near perfect condition. Box 
and all parts and instructions included. 
Listing ID: 248020959 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
FURNITURE
Chocolate Couch and Matching Loveseat - 
$800. Excellent matching sofa and loveseat 
set. Credible offers will be entertained. Sofa 
is electric recliner. Loveseat is manual reclin -
ing. Listing ID: 248020983 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
Mirror, Desk, Chair (Set) - $80. Moving out of 
town, selling some of our furniture to lessen 
the stuff to move. All in excellent condition. 
Listing ID: 248020977 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Cali King Bed - $750. Cali King bed frame. 
Ashley memory foam mattress included. 
Leather frame and headrest. Hate to let go 
but new place is too small for it. Original 
owner. Serious buyers only. No deliveries. 
Listing ID: 248020975 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
CalCopyUCSD@gmai l.comLowest
Prices POSTER PRINTINGPRINT/ COPY FILES
MAIL • USPS • FedExFastest
ServiceReaders printed in 1 day.Cal Copy UCSD Course Readers
SAME DAY COLOR POSTER PRINTING!what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
FEA TURES  THE UCSD DISREGUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MARCH 31, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  15
12  THE UCSD DISREGUARDIAN | THURSDAY , MARCH 31, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  SPURTZ
CONTACT THE EDITOR
BALLZ MCBALLSY
spurts@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @tweetweet 
Hi! A$H Ketchup here. Here’s your ﬁrst starter pack. Use these 
cards wisely and treat them well. If you raise them with love, they 
will give you even more love in return. GOTTA PAY ‘EM ALL!