VOLUME 49, ISSUE 44   THURSDA Y , APRIL 7, 2016  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
BOOKS AND 
BEANS
WHILE YOU ARE STILL 
PRETENDING THAT HOMEWORK 
DOES NOT EXIST, USE THIS 
WEEKEND TO FINISH THAT 
BOOK YOU STARTED LAST 
SUMMER, SIPPING ON SOME 
COFFEE IN THE MEANTIME. 
BOOKSTORE AND COFFEE SHOP 
RECOMMENDATIONS ARE ON US.
FUNDING  AFFORDABILITY
BASEBALLSER VING  CALIFORNIAN  STUDENTS
Tritons   T ake   two   of   threeOPINION, p AGE 4
sport,  P age 12
THURSDAY
H 70 L 55FRIDAY
H 68 L 55
SATURDAY
H 67 L 54SUNDAY
H 65 L 54
FORECAST
VERBATIM
TO REALLY  GRAN T WOMEN  
MAXIMUM  FREEDOM  AND RIGHTS 
ALL OVER THE GLOBE , THE FULL 
SPEC TRUM OF IDENTITIES AND 
CULTURES MUST BE TAKEN INTO 
ACCOUN T. THIS MEANS  LISTEN-
ING TO THE REAL PROBLEMS  
MUSLIM  WOMEN  PRESEN T ABOU T 
THEIR COMMUNI TIES, INSTEAD OF 
IMPOSING  OUR OWN.”
- AYAT AMIN
MUSLIM IN AMERIC A
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
TRIUMPHANT  .................. 2
MUSLIM IN AMERICA .......4
XYLO Q&A  ....................... 8
SUDOKU  ....................... 10
WOMEN’S WATER POLO..11“LIFESTYLE,  P AGE  6
PHOTO BY OLGA GOLUBKOVA /
GUARDIAN
Researchers from the UCSD School 
of Medicine and other universities 
across the country recently discovered 
that a protein previously thought to 
be of little importance plays a major 
role in regulating RNA levels and 
male fertility. The findings were 
published in the online journal Cell 
on March 31.
UPF3A was previously thought to 
be a weak activator of the Nonsense 
Mediated Decay pathway of mRNA, 
the molecule that communicates the 
genetic information used to create 
proteins. The NMD pathway works 
as a biological spell-check that 
reduces the expression of truncated, incorrectly constructed proteins and 
regulates normal gene expression.
UPF3A is one half of a gene 
paralog pair — duplicated from 
the same parent gene — that both 
play a role in governing the NMD 
pathway. UPF3A inhibits while 
UPF3B activates, and the opposite 
effects suggest they are the product 
of functional antagonism, a rare 
occurrence in gene duplication in 
which the proteins work in opposing 
ways to affect the same system. 
Miles Wilkinson, senior author 
and professor in the department 
of reproductive medicine at UCSD 
School of Medicine, postulates that 
the relationship between the paralogs 
is analogous to a volume switch.
“Our results suggest that UPF3A and UPF3B act as volume controls to 
up and down-regulate NMD at the 
right times for normal development 
to proceed, ” Wilkinson said.
He stated that they were able to 
determine UPF3A ’s role by using a 
loss-of-function method.
“In papers from 10–15 years 
ago, UPF3A was found to largely 
lack much of any function, but in 
our publication we used a different 
test — a loss-of-function test — 
and found that actually, UPF3A 
is a potent inhibitor of the NMD 
pathway, ” Wilkinson told the UCSD 
Guardian. “Loss-of-function means 
that a gene is mutated or in some 
other way debilitated so that it 42 Students 
Participate in 
Clinton Global 
InitiativeUCSD
Attendees formed teams 
to develop and propose 
solutions to some of the 
world’s most pressing issues.
BY   R E B E C CA   C H O N G
STAFF WRITEr
This past weekend 42 UCSD 
students presented their projects at the 
Clinton Global Initiative University 
hosted at UC Berkeley. The number 
of UCSD students who attended the 
conference was higher than it has been 
since UCSD hosted the conference 
in 2011, when the university’s own 
students’ attendance was at its highest.
The CGI U conference serves 
as a space for students, university 
representatives and topic experts 
to come together and work 
collaboratively on innovative solutions 
in five areas of pressing global issues: 
education, the environment and 
climate change, peace and human 
rights, poverty alleviation and public 
health. Each of the 16 teams developed 
“Commitments to Action, ” based on 
their research projects, that describe 
specific and measurable initiatives 
that their work addresses in line with 
the five global issues. 
Ryan Crawford, who is the 
program coordinator in the Center 
for Student Involvement Community 
Service and who is the University 
Network Campus Liaison for the 
CGI U, explained his personal role in 
supporting the students and how the 
university supports student projects. 
“UCSD is committing $10,000 
to fund student projects, ” Crawford 
told the UCSD Guardian. “This year 
we had 42 people accepted to attend 
the meeting. That’s one of the top 
universities sending the most amount 
of people. It’s a gathering of 1,200 
people around the world; over 60 
different countries are represented 
at the meeting. My involvement 
personally is that … I interface with 
our students to make sure they’re 
finding resources to attend the 
meeting, but more importantly to 
help them fulfill their Commitment 
to Action. ”
A team consisting of Warren 
College junior Y ajur Maker, Revelle 
College freshman Haley Sherburne 
and Warren sophomore Julie Yip 
created a low-cost diagnostic 
platform for detecting disease more 
efficiently in low-income areas such 
as Tijuana, Mexico. 
Yip, who became involved with 
the project through the student 
organization Engineering World 
Health, felt that the event helped 
her team better understand future 
prospects for the project.  
“Overall, [it was] very much a good 
learning experiencing, ” Yip told the 
Guardian. “In terms of the project it ASCE Announces Miguel 
Will Headline 2016 Festival
A.S. Concerts and Events announced today that 
Grammy Award-winning R&B artist Miguel 
will headline UCSD’s 2016 Sun God Festival. 
Opening the event for Miguel will be African-Norwegian 
afrobeat duo Nico and Vinz, Great Good Fine Ok and 
Battle of the Bands student-winner Paradise. ASCE 
Director Christian Walker also told the UCSD Guardian 
that a secret, fifth artist will be announced closer to the 
date of the event.
Miguel — born and raised in San Pedro, Los Angeles 
— is well-known for his 2012 hit “ Adorn, ” which peaked 
at No. 17 on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 and won him 
the Grammy that year for Best R&B song. However, his 
most recent album, “Wildheart, ” was his most successful 
to date, both commercially and critically. Not only did 
it reach No. 2 on the U.S. Billboard 200 when it was 
released in June, but it also earned an 8.9 out of 10 
from Pitchfork and four out of five stars from Rolling 
Stone Magazine. Pitchfork also ranked it the eighth-best 
album of 2015, while Rolling Stone named it the third 
best R&B album of the year, just behind The Weeknd’s 
“Beauty Behind the Madness” and D’ Angelo and the 
Vanguard’s “Black Messiah. ” The top singles from the album include  “Coffee” (featuring Wale) and “Waves. ”
The singer-producer has also collaborated with 
critically acclaimed artists in the past, such as Kendrick 
Lamar, Chris Brown, Future, J. Cole, The Weeknd, 
Travis Scott and Lenny Kravitz, among others.
Nico and Vinz, formerly known as Envy, are a hip-
hop/R&B group based in Oslo, Norway who broke 
out internationally with their 2013 hit “ Am I Wrong, ” 
which peaked at No. 4 on the Billboard Hot 100. The 
duo released its most recent EP , “Cornerstone, ” this past 
October along with the single “That’s How You Know, ” 
featuring Kid Ink and Bebe Rexha, which reached No. 2 
on music charts in both Norway and Australia.
Great Good Fine Ok is a synthpop group based 
in Brooklyn whose 2013 single “You’re The One For 
Me” garnered a significant online following before 
reaching No. 1 on Hype Machine twice in one month. 
Following the success of its first EP , “Body Diamond, ” 
the group released its second EP , “2M2H, ” which 
quickly reached No. 10 on the iTunes dance chart. In 
addition to supporting well-known performers such 
as Tove Lo, X Ambassadors and Joywave, the indie 
pop duo was featured on the 2015 single “Let You Go” B y  JACKY  TO      NEWS EDITORA.S. ELECTION
Scientists Link UPF3A Protein to Male Fertility
The study reported that the protein, initially considered insignificant, helps regulate RNA levels. See SUN GOD , page 2
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
See CLINTON , page 3 See FERTILITY , page 3SUN GOD
The UCSD Guardian moderated a town hall forum with unopposed A.S. Council presidential candidate Daniel Juarez on Tuesday.
Photo by Megan Lee /UCSD Guardian
BY  M I N G - R A Y   L I A O
Senior STAFF WRITERby The Chainsmokers. The song, 
which they co-wrote and performed, 
premiered in Billboard and has since 
been remixed by A-trak and Tiesto. 
In September, the group 
independently released “Take It or 
Leave It, ” a song that, according to 
DCW 50, received over a million 
Spotify plays in the span of one 
month. Great Good Fine Ok’s most 
recent release, “ Already Love, ” was 
made available on March 1. 
Paradise, who won ASCE’s 
Battle of the Bands 2016 and the 
opportunity to perform at Sun God, 
is a singer-writer-guitarist from 
Santa Cruz whose music is described 
on her SoundCloud page as having 
“a unique sound of acoustic folk and 
pop rock. ” She told the Guardian that 
the chance to speak with established 
artists is as exciting to her as the 
performance itself.
“For me, this isn’t just a cool 
gig, but a really big opportunity, ” 
Paradise said. “The biggest takeaway is going to be talking to the other 
artists and learning about how they 
got to where they did and taking any 
notes on tips and advice they might 
have for me. ”
Her musical inspirations include 
No Doubt, Muse, Maroon 5, Jason 
Mraz, Black Eyed Peas, Shakira, 
Britney Spears and Coldplay.
Walker told the Guardian that 
his team did its best to curate a 
musical lineup that could appeal to 
the diverse tastes of UCSD’s student 
body, which it derived from the 
results of the entertainment survey 
it put out earlier this year.
“We wanted this lineup to be a 
little bit of something for everyone, ” 
Walker said. “We chose artists that 
we see a lot of potential in but that 
students are also currently really 
excited about. There’s a good blend 
of genres and a mix of commercially 
successful acts and other music that 
students will be able to discover for 
the first time. ”
Walker also revealed that the Festival’s team has had to organize 
Sun God with fewer funds than it 
has had in the past, and he applauds 
the artists the organization was able 
to book. Moreover, with the festival 
now taking place during the day 
rather than at night, members of 
ASCE took account of the event’s 
time as they made decisions 
regarding the lineup.
“When we booked this event, 
we really tried to pursue artists that 
fit the vibe that we were going for, ” 
Walker said. “Sun God as a daytime 
festival is going to be a different 
experience, so we wanted to ensure 
that our lineup met the new feel and 
nature of the event. ”
Though the organization 
collaborates with the university, 
Walker clarified that students, not 
administrators, have the final say over 
which artists perform at Sun God.
“ As in years past, ASCE maintains 
control of the lineup of the festival, ” 
Walker said. “I think it’s really 
important for students to remain at the helm of those decisions, so that’s 
an area of authority that I don’t see 
us as ever losing. ”
The 2016 Sun God Festival will 
take place on Saturday, April 30 
between 12 p.m. and 6 p.m. All 
UCSD undergraduates qualify for 
free admission if they register online 
for the event before April 26 at 11:59 
p.m. However, according to the 
event’s Facebook page, registration 
is limited to the capacity of RIMAC 
Field and will thus occur on a first-
come, first-serve basis. Students’ 
UCSD identification cards will serve 
as their tickets into the festival, but 
re-entry will not be allowed. 
UCSD graduate students are also 
eligible to purchase Sun God tickets 
in person at the UCSD Box Office 
for $46 (plus box office fees). 2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 7, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
TRIUMPHANT By Alex Liang
REGISTER ONLINE  AT
AS.UCS D.EDU/ SAFERID ESREGISTRATION
FOR this quarter
IS NOW OPEN!
A.S. Safe Rides all ows 
registe red unde rgraduate 
students to get 3 FREE rid es 
per quarter. 
Students must r egister at 
least 2 4 hours prior t o their 
first ri de. Contact A.s. safe rides: (619) 564 - 799 8The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. Olga got a free coffee today. All you have to do 
is look confused and a kind barista will assist. Olga things.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Marketing Co-Directors
Peter McInnis, Haley Asturias
Training and Development Manager
Cedric Hyon
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Vincent Pham
Tina Butoiu
Jacky To
Josh Lefler
Quinn Pieper
Marcus Thuillier
Dev Jain
Allison Kubo
Oliver Kelton
Karly Nisson
Sam Velaquez
Brittney Lu
Olga Golubkova
Megan Lee
Christian Duarte
Joselynn Ordaz
Kenji Bennett
Ayat Amin
Christina Carlson
Sophia Huang
Jennifer Grundman
Sage Schubert ChristianEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
News Editor
 
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Co-Editor
Features Editor
Associate Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Multimedia Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editors
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Allison Kubo
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim, Alicia Ho, Lisa Chik
Editorial Assistants
Naftali Burakovsky, Nathaniel Walker, Lisa Chik,
Maria SebasWalker: Sun God Team Sought Artists T hat Will Fit Atmosphere of  Daytime Festival
▶ SUN GOD,  from page 1
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGsee more at
jacky to   was good to get feedback. There were 
a lot of questions that made us think 
about a commercial perspective. ”
Eleanor Roosevelt College senior 
Gabriella Bastos, Revelle senior 
John Bogich and Muir College 
junior Ismael Ramirez submitted a 
Commitment to Action based on a 
project that has been in the works for 
the past few years. 
Dubbed a “closed-loop ecosystem, ” 
the team aims to create a sustainable, 
closed-loop and scalable controlled 
greenhouse that can guarantee 
food for any community regardless 
of resources or weather. This is 
through the use of renewable energy 
techniques like hydroponic growing 
and atmospheric water generators to 
produce food, thereby reducing food 
waste and addressing climate change.Several aspects of the project have 
been pursued in Roger’s Garden, the 
community garden in Revelle and 
in various places across campus. 
These include solar panels installed 
in the gardens themselves, working 
with Price Center restaurants to 
gather their food waste for compost 
and continuing the growth of 
fresh vegetables and fruits in the 
community garden. 
Bastos expressed her desire to 
implement the project beyond UCSD’s 
own campus and into less privileged 
communities, such as Tijuana and  
San Diego border communities.
Bogich felt encouraged by the 
diversity of student perspectives at 
the conference.
“CGI definitely opened my eyes 
to some of the amazing work that is 
being done by inspiring young people 
all over the globe, ” Bogich said. “It was a great place to cross-pollinate with 
minds from different educational and 
cultural backgrounds. ”
For Bastos, the focus on peer-to-
peer interactions made the experience 
more motivating. 
“What CGI U did is it definitely 
made me more excited; I don’t want 
to be cliched, but it did inspire me, ” 
Bastos told the Guardian. “Y ou’re 
around students your age — that’s the 
big emphasis I like to put — it’s the 
age similarity. Because a lot of the time 
you can go to these conferences and 
watch Ted Talks but those are older 
adults. If you’re really passionate about 
something you can manage to balance 
your time … [and] you can find a way 
to make your passions a reality. ”NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 7, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
ON TRITONLINK APRIL 4-8FOR MORE INFORMATION, VISIT AS.UCSD.EDU/ELECTIONS OR CONTACT ASELECTIONS@UCSD.EDUdoesn’t work anymore. One then 
looks to see what goes wrong in the 
organism and what goes wrong must 
be what that gene normally does. ”
The team then investigated the 
role of UPF3A on embryogenesis, the 
process through which an embryo 
forms and develops, by generating 
complete knockout UPF3A mouse 
models — engineered mice that do 
not produce the UPF3A protein. 
The models showed early embryonic 
death which, according to Jones, 
indicates that the NMD inhibitory 
function of UPF3A is also crucial in 
the very first stages of development 
in embryos.
Since UPF3A is highly expressed in the testes, the team also studied 
its impact on male fertility. The 
researchers knocked out UPF3A 
in sperm cells and found that it 
greatly reduces the number of cells 
in the testes that undergo meiosis, 
a process that produces more sperm 
and eggs.
Samantha Jones, co-first author 
and Ph.D. student in Wilkinson’s 
lab, said that NMD therapy could 
be beneficial due to its presence in 
various diseases.
“Since 15 to 30 percent of all 
human genetic diseases are caused 
by mutations detected by NMD, the 
range of genetic diseases potentially 
treatable by NMD therapy is vast, ” 
Jones said in a press release.Wilkinson elaborated on the 
medical implications of targeting 
NMD by suggesting scientists 
develop prescriptions that suppress 
UPF3A, which indirectly increases 
NMD activity resulting in fewer 
protein errors.
“To increase the effectiveness of 
the NMD pathway, drugs could be 
designed to inhibit UPF3A, as it is a 
natural suppressor of the pathway, ” 
Wilkinson said in a press release. 
“Diseases that could potentially 
be treated include diabetes, 
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and 
Marfan syndrome. ”Taking Dr ugs T hat Inhibit the Protein Can Help Treat Diabetes
▶ FERTILITY ,  from page 1
One Team Already Implemented Sustainability Project at UCSD
▶ CLINTON,  from page 1
becca chong   Looking for the 
New Business 
Column?
Now posted every Wednesday 
night, after the A.S. Council 
meeting, online.
ucsdguardian.orgming-ra y  liao   4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 7, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
The recent audit on the UC system that implied 
out-of-state students were admitted to campuses at 
a lower academic standard unfurled a plethora of 
issues, namely inadequate funding. To counter the difference 
of the UC system, out-of-state students were admitted more 
loosely because they pay nearly $25,000 more in tuition fees 
annually. This trend of admitting more out-of-state students 
is rampant but shouldn’t be the quickfix to the UC system’s 
lack of finances. Rather, the UC system should be looking at 
how it enrolls students and should preference the students 
it was created to serve — Californians. With funding being 
more nuanced than simply reducing executive pay to support 
students, the Guardian Editorial Board recommends a careful 
look at the UC system’s investments and how they could be 
reallocated for bettering student education.
Before we can understand the extent of the problem and 
how to solve it, we must analyze where we should be. An ideal 
situation for every UC campus is one in which, for each out-
of-state student admitted, it admits at least as many California 
resident applicants needed to reflect the demographics of its 
respective applicant pool. In other words, if 100 California 
residents and 20 out-of-state students applied to UCSD — an 
“applicant ratio” of five to one — then it ought to admit at 
least five California residents for each out-of-state student it 
admits — an “admit ratio” of at least five to one. Likewise, if 
the university chooses to enroll all 20 of the latter pool, then 
it should also enroll all 100 of the former.
As recently as 2012, UCSD had an applicant ratio of 3.85, 
approximately 45 percent less than its admit ratio of 2.09. 
What this means is that despite the in-state applicant pool 
being nearly four times larger than the out-of-state pool, it 
ended up admitting only two Californians for each non-
Californian
To its credit, UCSD has made significant strides in giving 
priority of access to our state’s residents, seeing substantial 
drops in the ratio differential to 33 percent and 27 percent in 
2013 and 2014. However, the following year, it stagnated at a 
differential of 29 percent.
However, UCSD isn’t the only one with this problem. 
Four of the eight other UC campuses have an admit ratio that 
does not reflect or exceed applicant ratio: these campuses 
are UCLA (16 percent), UC Santa Cruz (39 percent), UC 
Davis (40 percent) and UC Irvine (41 percent). Though not 
every UC campus exhibits this issue — UC Santa Barbara, 
UC Riverside, UC Merced and UC Berkeley each have admit 
ratios greater than their applicant rations — it’s apparent that 
admitting out-of-state students at disproportionate rates is a 
systemic issue.
This problem is even harder to swallow when realizing 
where the funds raised from out-of-state tuition are allocated: 
administrative salaries. In 2006, 80 percent of Americans 
polled believed that CEOs are overpaid. Although CEOs and 
Chancellors of universities aren’t exactly the same, the idea of executive pay being too high holds strong. Back in 2014, 
the three lowest paid UC chancellors received a 20 percent 
pay raise, bringing the lowest paid chancellors at UC Santa 
Cruz and Riverside’s salary $383,160 annually. The reasoning 
behind this was to “correct injustices” of chancellor pay in 
comparison to the 62 other universities in the Association 
of American Universities. The UC chancellors who received 
a raise had the some of the lowest base salaries of the 62 
universities and the 10 UC chancellors overall have their 
salaries roughly seven percent lower than the average public 
university chancellor on the list. More recently in 2015, five 
UC chancellors received a three percent pay raise to maintain 
a competitive edge compared to other universities in the 
nation. This included UCSD’s very own Chancellor Pradeep 
Khosla, bringing his salary to $436,120 annually. 
These raises can be contrasted to the California State 
Universities’ similar crisis with inadequate funds. Without 
having the similar draw from out-of-state students to 
CSUs, Chancellor Timothy P . White must allocate funds 
appropriately between the 26,000 professors, lecturers, 
librarians, counselors and coaches who will go on strike if 
they do not receive a deal on their appropriately request five 
percent raise and the resources that support students. 
With the tuition hikes being barely held at bay and recent 
implications of the UC system increasingly admitting out-
of-state students at lower standards for their higher tuition 
fees, raising executive salaries seems nonsensical. Yet, it 
shouldn’t stand as the scapegoat nor the cure-all to the lack 
of funding in the UC system. Yes, these executive should be 
held accountable for their actions and should fill their role 
as advocating for the students across the UC campuses. And 
yes, these chancellors should be focusing their efforts at the 
UC campuses — and solely the campus they lead — as stated 
by their bylaws. But a high-demanding job comes at a high 
price. Albeit the rationale of maintaining competitive pay 
in comparison to other university chancellors may not hold 
water with many, the notion to reduce executive pay is more 
symbolic than effective. Chancellors and executive positions’ 
salaries should be under scrutiny but with the same vigilance 
over other areas where financial resources are being invested 
in more heavily and that are far less beneficial to students as 
a whole.
As public funding is increasingly sparse for the state’s 
public education — and particularly the University of 
California — the university substantially supplements 
federal and state funding with investments, which account 
for almost $100 billion. The annual report by the UC Chief 
Investments Officer of the Regents — referred to as UC 
Investments — breaks these investments into categories 
of endowment, pension, retirement savings programs, 
TRIP , STIP , split-interest gifts, and private equity. Pension 
investments entail more than half of this $95.7 billion. Last 
September, UC Investments made one of last year’s multiple OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
QUINN  PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Ayat   A m i n
A6AMIN@ucsd.eduMuslim  in  america
A quick Google image search of 
Muslim woman almost exclusively 
returns pictures of women wearing 
black hijabs, the veil used to cover 
the hair and sometimes the face. This 
perpetuates the stereotype that Muslim 
women are powerless and submissive, 
yet it is contrary to the narrative I 
know of Muslim women. So in today’ s 
column, let’ s tackle the controversial 
topic of Muslim women as feminists.
Just last week, the Guardian 
reported that Laurence Rossignol, 
France’s Minister for Women’s Rights, 
compared Muslim women who 
wear the hijab to “ American negroes 
who were in favor of slavery. ”  This 
comment is brimming with layers of 
oppressive ideals. Looking past its over 
racism, it implies that Muslim women 
who wear the hijab are essentially 
slaves because they lack freedom to 
do what they will with their bodies. 
Contrary to this notion, many Muslim 
women see the hijab as a form of 
liberation from society’s expectations 
of women and their bodies. 
The conversation here is a classic 
divergence of viewpoints between 
the east and west in regards to a 
woman’s body. Free the Nipple and 
the breastfeeding debates are prime 
examples of western feminist ideas 
that push for normalizing the nude 
female body, so that natural acts 
like breastfeeding become more 
commonplace. In contrast there is the 
hijab. The idea is that by privatizing 
a woman’s body to herself, a woman’s 
body cannot be commodified or 
sexualized without her consent 
because she chooses when and whom 
to share her body with. 
The hijab addresses the same 
problem the Free the Nipple 
challenges, but in a fundamentally 
different way. In the end, both 
movements advocate for women to 
be seen as more than just their bodies 
and a support of both would leave 
more options for women to do with 
their body what they please.
Both views are equally valid for a 
woman to embrace, but their opposite 
tactics breed misunderstanding. Y et, 
understanding is imperative if we are 
striving to advance the global welfare 
of women. To really grant women 
maximum freedom and rights all 
over the globe, the full spectrum of 
identities and cultures must be taken 
into account. This means listening 
to the real problems Muslim women 
present about their communities, 
instead of imposing our own. 
This is what the Minister of France 
and organizations like FEMEN, 
an international women’s rights 
organization known for protesting 
topless, miss when criticize the hijab. 
They impose their own idea that the 
hijab is enslavement, despite the array 
of literature from Muslim women who 
describe the hijab as liberation. In 
doing so, they also undermine the real 
problems Muslim women in the world 
face that have nothing to do with 
the hijab, while ignoring the many 
Muslim women solving such issues. 
Take Zainab Salbi, a Muslim 
woman who started Women for 
Women International in order to 
address the use of sexual violence 
against women during war. Or Malala 
Y ousafzai, arguably the most powerful 
advocate for girls’ education on the 
planet.  Like in the west, women in 
the Muslim world face issues like a 
lack of repercussions for domestic 
violence or the status of a woman 
being intertwined with her sexual 
purity. Yet if westerners are to help, 
they must first lose their savior 
complex. Only then will they be able 
to join in on the conversation. Feminism via 
The Hijab
A recent audit revealing the University of  California’s lower standards for 
out-of-state students’ admission brings forth an urgent question of  funding: 
how can the UC better invest in an affordable future?Enduring  solutions
For   Lackluster   funding
ILLUSTRA TION   B Y ALEX  LIANG
See FUNDING , page 5OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 7, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
divestments by withdrawing from 
coal and oil sand companies, 
which the L.A. Times reports as a 
$200-million move made due to the 
decreasing price of these entities. 
This decision, however — one 
made for environmental concerns 
and financial risk — should be one 
of many. 
The UC Investments rightfully 
divested from the coal industry, 
whose plummet can be seen via 
China’s major announcement 
last December to close 1,000 coal 
mines in the sake of reducing gas 
emissions. But the Office cannot 
neglect what was not sold of the 
remaining $10 billion of investments 
in oil and natural gas — which make 
up the 10 percent of the $100 billion total — as oil investments, in the 
long run, are not sustainable. UC 
Investors must not just be aware of 
“slowing global demand, ” which UC 
Investments Officer Jagdeep Baccher 
cites in the UCIO annual report as 
a reason for divestment from coal: 
they need to fully be ahead of it. 
This means looking further into 
investments in the oil industry, 
which the New Y ork Times describes 
as being in its “deepest downturn 
since the 1990s. ” From pledges made 
by over 5,000 companies at the Paris 
Climate Accord earlier this year to 
Obama’s budget proposal to raise 
clean energy spending by 20 percent, 
it is clear that investments in 
particularly unreliable industries are 
not safe or reasonable destinations 
for our university’s money.
But larger improvements in money management must be 
made in regards to investment 
sectors, rather than simply in 
industries. According to the Center 
for Investigative Reporting, the 
endowment returns for nine major 
institutions from 2004 to 2009 
averaged 10 percent, while that 
for the UC returned 7.3 percent. 
Universities like Columbia and 
Yale had even higher returns at 
11 percent. Of course, managing 
a budget in the billions comes 
with balancing risks with financial 
security, but as the largest 
university system in the world, 
it is clear that perhaps where UC 
needs the greatest resources is in 
investment strategy: ensuring not 
only that money is not being lost 
while it should have been divested, 
and ensuring that it’s being utilized where it is placed.
In order for the University 
of California to effectively serve 
Californian students — for whom 
the university was created — the 
urgent issue of funding must 
be addressed with more than a 
temporary solution of utilizing the 
higher financial benefit of enrolling 
international students. Students, 
although not currently treated 
as, are not merely consumers. 
Administrative funding cuts and 
divestment alone will not ensure 
accessible public education: 
rather, substantial and thorough 
means must be taken by the UC 
in order to analyze the future — 
not the present — of our funding. 
Jeopardizing the quality of 
education for marginal financial 
gains is not a valuable option.▶ FUNDING  from page 4University’s Investments, and Funding Decisions Must Be Made with Students’ Education in Mind
RESIDENT APPLICANTS
RESIDENT APPLICANTSNON-RESIDENT APPLICANTS
NON-RESIDENT APPLICANTSUCSD   UNDERGRADUA TE  ADMISSIONSNUMBER of stUdENts
YEaRAPPLICANT  RATEADMIT  RATIO
REsIdENt  to  NoNREsIdENt  RatIoUCSD  RESIDENT  TO  NONRESIDENT   ra tio
YEaRADMIT  RATIO
APPLICANT  RATE
The UCSD Guardian is published twice a week at the 
University of California at San Diego. Contents © 2015. 
Views expressed herein represent the majority vote of the edi -
torial board and are not necessarily those of the UC Board of 
Regents, the ASUCSD or the members of the Guardian staff. Vincent Pham
EDITOR IN CHIEF
Tina Butoiu
MANAGING EDITOR  
Jacky To
NEWS EDITOR
Josh Leffer
ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITOR
Quinn Pieper
OPINION EDITOR
Ayat Amin
DATA VISUALIZATION EDITOR
Allison Kubo
FEATURES EDITOR
Olga Golubkova
CO-LIFESTYLE EDITOREDITORIAL  BOARDGRAPHS  B Y  A Y A T  AMIN6     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 7, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
  
"The Sirens of Titan" begins when the world's richest 
man has his future laid out for him by an astronaut-
turned-time-traveling phenomenon. What follows is 
characteristically Vonnegut: a bizarre journey that's as much about 
human condition as the movement of the characters.
That is not to say that "The Sirens of Titan" is derivative. For 
one, it is less pessimistic than Vonnegut's two better-known books, 
"Cat's Cradle" and "Slaughterhouse Five." "The Sirens of Titan" 
is dense with original ideas. And while the former books warn 
against man-made destruction, "The Sirens of Titan" is themed 
around free will and human relation.
As with any book with a central message, one's enjoyment is 
influenced by the perceived profundity of the payoff. But Vonnegut 
succeeds in telling an entertaining story while also expressing his views on mankind.
The writing style deserves attention of its own. Vonnegut 
renders "The Sirens of Titan" with simple language and dry wit. 
This combination makes the writing feel simultaneously clever 
while remaining comfortable to read. His vision carries with it a 
heavy dose of irony, which is uncommon for books in the science 
fiction genre.
Vonnegut manages to package complicated ideas about free 
will and human relationships into an undemanding, engrossing 
story.The book is worth reading for its sheer weirdness and wry 
humor, and any incidental meaning only serves to make the 
experience more memorable. "The Sirens of Titan" is an easy book 
to recommend.A terrifically livable city, San Diego has spoiled us all. Mainly 
known for its unique paradisiacal microclimate, the city does 
not cease to amaze tourists and locals alike with its abundance 
of food and drink establishments. Last December, San Diego’s 
gastronomic cornucopia was topped up by Hawthorn, a new coffee 
shop on Adams Avenue. Opened by Dylan and Kevin Redmond, 
a professional father-son duo, this coffee-serving location places 
its stake on high-quality shots, brews and pourovers, and honest, 
open-hearted customer service that makes you feel like part of the 
Redmond family.
Once you get to Hawthorn, you cannot help the feeling of 
deja vu. It instinctively fills you when you see the shop sign that 
looks similar to Heartwork Coffee Bar’s grey and white lettering. 
The minimalistic, geometric interior of Hawthorn with its simple 
wall tiles, wooden tables for two and a distinctive counter, in 
turn, resembles the inside of Holsem Coffee and Coffee and 
Tea Collective, two widely-known North Park coffee shops. The 
simplicity of this shop on Adams, however, is free of the aesthetic 
snobbism and unsettling emptiness that make you feel foreign 
at other third-wave coffee shops. The tables, accurately aligned 
next to each other, successfully fit 17 to 20 people, while making 
enough room for a long customer line and allowing for a surprise 
conversation with strangers and productive reading or study 
session (Hawthorn’s Wi-Fi will not fail you).
Focusing on the community role of a neighborhood coffee 
shop, Hawthorn provides excellent customer service. Attentive 
baristas not only enthusiastically explain the specifics of every 
drink to their picky customers, but also make sure every one of 
them has everything they need throughout the visit. If the shop 
is not particularly busy, the employees will have a short chat with 
you, making you feel welcomed — no wonder why the majority of people at Hawthorn are their regulars. Y ou can also see the owner, 
Kevin Redmond, pouring espresso shots himself, being always in 
control of the quality of served caffeine beverages.
Hawthorn’s menu is the main evidence of a thoughtful approach 
to coffee and tea developed by the owners through their extensive 
experience working at coffee shops, bars and restaurants. It 
maintains a perfect balance between classic flavorful espresso 
drinks made from Flying Goat Coffee beans, including double-shot 
espresso ($2.50), macchiato ($3.00) and cappuccino ($3.25), and 
original drinks served in 8-ounce and 12-ounce cups — vanilla latte 
with homemade syrup ($4.00-4.25) and Parliament mocha ($4.25-
4.75) are their specials. Pourovers and cold brew made at this 
friendly establishment are worthy of special attention. Guatemala, 
Honduras, Peru, Mexico and Ethiopia? Y ou may not be able to 
visit all these countries, but you simply must try the single-origin 
Hawthorn pourovers and cold brews ($3.50-4.00).
While prioritizing coffee, Hawthorn treats other popular drinks 
with due respect. When away from coffee equipment, baristas make 
sophisticatedly served oolong, green and black teas ($3.00-4.00), 
chai tea lattes ($3.25-3.75) and sodas made with Nostrum tonic 
blends ($4.00). In addition, unlike many other coffee-oriented 
joints, Hawthorn will not let you starve. With an extensive variety 
of pastries, a so-called toast bar that features almond butter, berry 
jam, nutella and cinnamon sugar toppings and recently introduced 
empanadas from Papa Luna’s Empanadas Argentinian Restaurant, 
Hawthorn is a decent breakfast and lunch option.
Optimal for studying and reading for fun , Hawthorn is a great 
addition to the family of Adams Avenue businesses. Come for their 
coffee, stay for the people — Hawthorn’s owners and baristas will 
surely improve your day with sincere smiles, witty jokes and drinks 
that never disappoint.      The  Christian  
Lifestyle:  
An Advice 
Column 
How can I find time to 
read for fun in college? 
— Anonymous 
As a Literature major, trust: if 
the weekly line-up for my classes 
is, at the very least, a novel or two, 
secondary literature to accompany 
such discourses, essays or 
assignments that supplement the 
texts, and the daily horoscope — 
Mercury retrograde is about to 
happen again, people; be prepared! 
— then nobody has an excuse 
to drop a book on its spine and 
reduce it to mere shelf aesthetic 
to seem well-read. Read these 
next three sentences with Jane 
Lynch’s tracksuit voice in your 
mind: You think reading a young 
adult novella is hard? Try reading 
“Riddley Walker” and “ Almanac of 
the Dead. ” That’s hard.
Start steady. Unless you’re 
some elitist guru named Tai 
Lopez, whose humble-brag 
perspiration can be felt seething 
into your pores, there’s no way 
you can consume an entire book 
in a day without thoroughly 
enjoying its intricate details. 
If reading is simply to combat 
chronic nihilism, a doctor — 
Ph.D., mind your hegemonic 
conceptions about the title — 
would prescribe 20 minutes a 
day. This is sufficient to finish 
a book within two weeks to a 
month. Because you’re reading for 
fun, as opposed to the late-night 
cram session, there’s no need to 
gorge it all in one sitting. Similar 
to how nobody deep-throats a 
Costco-sized bag of onions and 
says they really savored the flavor, 
you shouldn’t expect to finish 
entire texts in a short period of 
time. It’s all about consistency and 
investing time.
Twenty is the magical number. 
It’s got two numbers, just as the first 
digit implies, and it also has a zero 
for style — it really highlights the 
magnitude of the two. Reserving 
20 minutes is easy when you put it 
in context of your entire day: Y ou 
already spend a copious amount of 
time studying for exams, so why 
not tack on twenty minutes more 
toward something that you can 
enjoy? It’s obvi, it’s formulaic and 
it’ll guarantee results fast. Y ou’ll 
no longer have to answer “Harry 
Potter … the second one!” when 
prompted to describe your favorite 
book. Perhaps, now, you can 
sriracha your daily conversation. 
Ye s ,  M i s s  L a d y,  I  re a d  Sy l v i a 
Plath. Of course, Mister Man, 
Haruki Murakami is completely 
underrated. Y ep yep, I am well-
informed on Kenneth Goldsmith 
and Vanessa Place — and, yes, I am 
aware that they are racist.
CHRISTIAN GELLA 
CGELLA@UCSD.EDU
BY   o l g a  g o l u b ko v a
Lifestyle Co-Editor
BY   A d a m   F i s h e r
Lifestyle Senior Staff WriterREST AURANT   REVIEW
BOOK   REVIEWOLGA  GOLUBK OV A   lifestyle@ucsdguardian.orgreaders can contactHOURS:
Monday to Sunday: 6:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.LOCATION:
3019 Adams Ave, corner of 30th 
San Diego, CA 92116
Ha wthorn   Coffee
The Sirens of the Tit an
by   Kurt Vonnegut PHOTO BY OLGA GOLUBKOVA / UCSD GUARDIAN
 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 7, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
  
Southern California Comic Books San Diego
8280 Clairemont Mesa Blvd #124, 92111
Whoever said we were too old for picture books has clearly never understood how much it means to us when we see a sixty-page 
reading assignment broken up by a series of diagrams, charts, photos and historical images. There is something so comfortably 
nostalgic about the way narratives can be told through images, either in an aesthetic way, or simply because it cuts a sixty-
page reading down to a forty-page skim. And for the Southern California Comic Books company, their goal is to create 
an environment where anyone can reminisce about their childhood or explore the future of comics through their 
abundance of iconic pieces, such as the Batman Animated Series Production, current sketches, newspaper classics 
and much more. 
Not only does Southern California Comic Books boast an army of comic books ranging from different time 
periods and places of origin, but features a solid arrangement of works done by local authors and illustrators 
— contributing to the unique San Diego comic landscape. This comic book center is not just a buy-and-sell 
bookstore, but a true San Diego establishment that offers locals, tourists, students and Comic-Con fanatics 
an opportunity to venture into alternate dimensions, variances of personae and a wildly imaginative space.  
by: Brittney Lu//Lifestyle Co-EditorMaxwell’s House of Books 
8285 La Mesa Blvd 91941
Comfortably nestled within the La Mesa neighborhood is Maxwell’s House of Books — a hole-in-the-wall used bookstore. It’s rich not only in its love for books and book-lovers 
alike, but in the history of its conception. The seeds were first planted in 1935 when Vernon Wahrenbrock opened Wahrenbrock’s Book House with his spontaneous Great Depression 
splurge on three truckloads of books. He was a meticulous and dynamic man who kept shop as such. Customers were quick to find new selections and unearth gems as he constantly 
rearranged his hodgepodge collection and was supported by particularly well-trained employees. 
His passion for literature persisted through the generations as his grandson, Craig Maxwell, opened Maxwell’s House of Books in 2003. The bookstore may look modest from the 
entrance, but extends much farther back with bookshelves adorning every visible inch from floor to ceiling. Their selection is an expansive garden of genres, each with fruit ripe for 
the picking for those willing to look. Fiction novels are the first to be perched amongst the front shelves of the store, enticing with familiar titles, then obscure editions and cover art, 
and finally with rare finds cozied between the more popular companions. But deeper into the dense fog of spines and covers are the other species of literature: science, art, economic, 
philosophy, political science, history, psychology and sociology. Each section has its own culture and population, tempting exploration like a backpacker setting foot onto South 
American soil, ready to reach each path and border. Explore the whole expanse, or take your genre picks. Y our body may tire from cradling books on each arm, but your heart and 
wallet will be satisfied with the affordable prices and overall purchase. by: Maria Manalang//Lifestyle Staff WriterAdams Avenue Bookstore 
3502 Adams Ave 92116
On the corner of Adams Avenue & 35th Street in Normal Heights is a quirky little bookstore where cat and book lovers alike unite in search of those hard-to-find books, all while 
hoping to find one of the many cats meandering around the bookstore. Full of character and hardcore book junkies, Adams Avenue Book Store is a place one goes to in order to indulge 
that inner nostalgia for an old-school bookstore experience. Boasting an inventory of 60,000 books in over 100 subject categories, Adams Avenue houses many used and antique specialty 
books, including: children's books, cookbooks, military history (in particular World War II and the Civil War), philosophy, poetry, Shakespearean studies and theology.
A major part of the Adams Avenue culture stems from the large San Diego local customer base which helps protect its favorite little jewel-in-the-crown safe from the likes of Amazon. 
As one of San Diego County’s oldest stores (established in 1965), Adams Avenue Book Store maintains itself as a vibrant part of the community by hosting events for locals, such as 
book fairs, readings and Wednesday Happy Hours. Not to mention the fuzzy friends, Bartleby and Felixia, who serve as the bookstore’s greeters and watch-cats, adding to the homey 
and familiar vibe of Adams Avenue Book Store. by: Shelby Newallis//Lifestyle Senior Staff Writer
Upstart Crow Bookstore and Coffeeshop 
835 W. Harbor Drive 92101
Easily missed amid the tourist shops, seafood restaurants, street performers and a carousel, Upstart Crow Bookstore and Coffeeshop is a one-stop necessity for literature and latte 
lovers alike. Located inside the tourist hub that is Seaport Village, this hidden nook boasts a plethora of books — from modern fiction and must-read classics to travel guides, humorous 
how-tos and philosophy pamphlets. Not to mention a huge collection of children’s stories, making this bookstore the go-to destination for any age. Upstart Crow also prides itself on 
featuring regional authors and subject matters, making it a true San Diegan treasure.
Centered at the heart of the first floor of this cozy, bookworm’s dream is a small coffee stand, roasting organic fair-trade beans, steaming their iconic coconut lattes and lemon chai, 
and baking fruit-filled scones to accompany any literary journey one chooses to embark upon at Upstart Crow. No need to bring your own venti, double-shot espresso from Starbucks 
when the baristas at Upstart Crow can make you a fresh brew to accompany the many hours you will spend reading Hemingway. Couple that with live music, comfortable reading 
corners, furnished with plush pillows and homey lighting, and windows overlooking the Midway and Pacific, Upstart Crow Bookstore and Coffeeshop is a must-visit if you’re an avid 
book enthusiast, or if you simply have a few free hours to spare.  by: Brittney Lu//Lifestyle Co-EditorSan Diego 
Bookstores 
PHOTO BY OLGA  GOLUBKOVA / UCSD GUARDIAN8     THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 7, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  WEEKEND
mind  of  mine
by   za ynWeezer  (white  album)
by   Weezer
Release Date March 25 Release Date April 1
With “Mind of Mine” ZAYN proves himself as a talented solo artist 
separate from One Direction.“The White Album” represents an exceptional 
return to form for alternative band Weezer.ALBUM   REVIEW ALBUM   REVIEW
In March of 2015 Zayn Malik 
expressed his desire to live like 
“a normal 22-year-old” away 
from the public eye and sever his 
connections with his former band 
One Direction. But after a mere 
four months he signed with RCA, a 
prominent music label, and began 
developing his own unique sound. 
Though the split definitely involved 
bad blood between bandmates, 
Malik is doing amazingly well as 
a solo artist, using the stylized 
name ZAYN. His debut single, 
“PILLOWTALK, ” quickly flew to 
the top of the charts, and “Mind of 
Mine, ” his debut album, is sitting 
comfortably in the top spot for 
album releases only a few days after 
its release. 
With “Mind of Mine” ZAYN 
displays his maturity as an artist, 
leaving his boy-band roots far 
behind him. The album has a 
polished alt-R&B sound similar 
to artists like The Weeknd or 
Frank Ocean. Songs like “LIKE I 
WOULD” and “PILLOWTALK” 
immediately pull you in with 
a catchy rhythm and strong, 
confident vocals. Much of the 
album highlights ZAYN’s vocal 
ability, with songs like “dRuNk” 
and “rEaR vIeW” featuring tricky 
high notes and falsetto sections. If 
anyone questioned ZAYN’s singing 
ability before, “Mind of Mine” 
removes all doubt. The heavily 
electronic and well-composed 
background music in songs like “BeFoUr” and “sHe” help to build 
energy so the vocals pack a heavier 
punch. Every beat, guitar riff 
or background singer has been 
carefully calculated and meditated 
upon to create an album saturated 
with hit tracks.
ZAYN also showcases his 
cultural breadth by throwing in 
songs like “INTERMISSION: 
fLoWeR, ” which he sings completely 
in Urdu, his father’s native 
language. The song breaks up the 
album by adding slower, vocally 
focused and minimally synthesized 
music that reveals more of ZAYN’s 
history and hints at what he might 
like to explore as a solo artist.
But where the album is solid 
rhythmically and vocally, it 
definitely falls short lyrically. Nearly 
every song is about having sex, 
getting drunk or both. Lyrics like 
“I don’t drink to get drunk/ I feel all the right funk” and “intoxicated 
it’s true when I’m with you/ I’m 
buzzing and I feel laced” sound 
like stock phrases borrowed 
from other popular pop songs. 
His cringeworthy lyrical laziness 
exposes ZAYN’s inexperience as a 
solo artist and takes away from an 
otherwise-polished album. 
Though he’s perfecting how to 
work alone, “Mind of Mine” is still 
one hell of a debut. Breaking away 
from One Direction was the best 
thing that ZAYN could have done 
for his career. His shortcomings as 
a writer are clearly overshadowed 
by his vocal strength and first-rate 
production, and with “Mind of 
Mine, ” ZAYN has firmly established 
himself as a solo artist.  
—   Chriss y  doDd
Staff WriterWeezer has been known as 
a nerdy garage-type band 
since its start in the ‘90s, 
but that doesn’t mean its members 
don’t know how to uplift an audience 
during a show. They can go from soft, 
croony tunes to vibrant “in-your-face” 
anthems all in one album and still 
retain the listener’s attention. Their 
ninth release, “Everything Will Be 
Alright In The End, ” was a decent 
album with an abundance of distorted 
guitar sounds that captured their 
metal-influenced phase. However, 
on “Weezer (White Album), ” they 
recruited producer Jake Sinclair, 
whose obsession with their classic 
‘90s sound led to a beautifully created 
compilation of their classic grunge 
intricacies and powerful lyrics.
Weezer’s fourth self-titled album 
contains a blend of guitar-heavy 
and acoustic ballads. Listeners’ first 
look into the album was through the 
multi-instrumental single “Thank 
God For Girls, ” where lead singer 
Rivers Cuomo delivers a catchy 
tune that mixes in some rap but still 
maintains the favorable rock-anthem 
attitude as in the baolder single 
“Beverly Hills. ” The album opener, 
“California Kids, ” finds Cuomo 
reviving his harmonizing expertise 
over riveting guitar strokes that give 
the album a perfect introduction into 
a nostalgic journey. Going down the 
tracklist, the songs only get better and 
better with “King Of The World” as 
the highlight. As an ode to his wife, 
Cuomo redefines the perfect husband 
through raging guitar riffs: He sings 
of being his wife’s shoulder to cry on and addresses her plane phobia by 
suggesting they “ride the greyhound 
all the way to the Galapagos. ” 
Definitely the same old sweet Cuomo.
Most bands’ ‘back to form’ 
albums are hollow shells, halting 
progression as artists in the name 
of nostalgia: Uninspired retreading 
and fan disappointment are too 
often the heart-wrenching outcome 
of a band’s last days. Nonetheless, 
Weezer dodged a bullet by producing 
what might be the band’s best album 
since “Weezer (Blue Album), ” with 
Cuomo’s vibrant vocals in “L.A Girlz” 
and “Jacked Up” resembling those of 
“Undone - The Sweater Song” and 
recalling those golden years. The 
usual themes of girl troubles and 
young, foolish times are still evident, 
however, with aged perspectives 
through protruding verses. Lyrics 
like “Do you want to get away with 
me? Do you want to face the great 
unknown” and “Keep on doing what 
you do, ‘Cuz I’ll never get tired of 
you” keep the themes of youthful love 
and adventures alive all throughout. 
Although these lyrics get too cheesy 
at times, one can’t resist them when 
they come from Cuomo’s mouth.
Finally, the album finishes its time 
of recollection with the acoustic ballad 
“Endless Bummer, ” giving off a classic 
“Island in the Sun” vibe. Weezer, after 
many years of mediocre albums, 
finally delivers memorable rock 
numbers that live up to the name.
—   melissa  p alafox
Staff Writer
A- B
Q&A
How have your lives been now that you’re playing shows around the country? GUARDIAN:
We’re working hard. We’ve been doing a lot of things on the West Coast. We 
just got back from South by Southwest.PAIGE:
What inspired the style of your debut “ America”? GUARDIAN:
Chase intentionally wanted to make a sad song, a ballad that’s moody yet 
beautiful at the same time. That’s how the song originated. He wrote the chords and 
the production was already there. The lyrics came out of the blue randomly. It’s about 
a country that pulls two people apart; it’s about my boyfriend and I. He had to leave 
the country because of his visa — he’s from the UK. Whatever mood Chase set fit 
perfectly with what my boyfriend and I were going through. Those lyrics came and 
made for a really sad/happy song. PAIGE:Where do you draw inspiration for your songs and what perspectives 
do you tell them from?GUARDIAN:
Those lyrics are very personal to all of us. They stem from real life shit 
that we’ve gone through or real life shit that we’ve heard from our friends. Each vibe 
is a different character trait of Chase and I. Every song is a journey through our 
personalities and who we are. Some of our songs are really sad, some are about love, 
some are sassy, some are about having a fun night out and some are about depression 
and anxiety. I feel like a lot of people get to know who we are through our music. PAIGE:Tell me about your careers prior to deciding to collaborate? What were 
your goals and how did they change after the PacSun campaign?GUARDIAN:
My goals have always been to do music for a living. I started out as a drummer, 
playing around town with people, doing tours and studio gigs. I got into a niche market that 
is starting to take off because of Y ouTube and the new, different platforms. There’s a new 
industry now with advertising online. I teamed up with our cousin, Cameron Duddy, for 
brand projects. I brought Paige into it because I was unsatisfied with doing instrumental 
music. In my spare time I was writing songs with artists and trying to get into that. I 
thought, “Why not send in songs, instead of instrumentals for these?” We wrote a song 
together, and we had a lot of fun doing it, and I continued to hire her because it was more 
fun than sitting at home by myself writing instrumental music. It was kind of a happy 
accident. We got a good reaction online from “ America. ” We wanted to do XYLØ — we had 
the name; we were working towards that in our spare time together. We didn’t think at all 
that they would like that or accept it for the video, and they did. CHASE:
And how was that experience? GUARDIAN:
It was so fun; we did five shows in four days. It was the best time of our lives. PAIGE:
Tell me about this past year and what some have called a “sensational 
rise to fame. ”GUARDIAN:
I don’t know about that. It’s been great, though. We’re kind of along for the 
ride. We’re trying to make the best music as possible in the studio and write the best 
songs that we can while trying to make our live show the best it can be. CHASE:This question is for Chase. How did you end up working for the Kardashians? GUARDIAN:
PacSun. I had a good two-year run with them where for every single video 
they did — which is a lot — I did all their music. It was a great relationship. My cousin 
Cameron, who is the director, opened the door for us.CHASE: 
 
 
 Interview By Peter McInnis // Senior Staff WriterXYLØ
Everything has happened so quickly for us, so we don’t have time to stop and 
think about what’s happening. We’ve made mistakes, and we’ve learned from them. It’s a 
tough industry, and I personally don’t have much experience, so I’m learning as we go.PAIGE:
PHOTO COURTESY OF HORIZONTALPHOTO COURTESY OF FREE BIKE VALETWEEKEND  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 7, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
Ditch your masks, cats 
and hairspray — “In the 
Heights” is a musical for 
21st-century America. Lin-Manuel 
Miranda, known for “Hamilton, ” a 
rap-musical about founding-father 
Alexander Hamilton, presents an 
underrepresented side of America, 
all too recognizable for many 
UCSD students, through Latin-
inspired music and internally 
rhymed verse. 
“In the Heights” follows the 
antics and drama in a street in the 
upper-Manhattan neighborhood of 
Washington Heights. It should be 
mentioned that if you are liable to 
cry during musicals, bring tissues 
so you can quietly sob in between 
scenes. If you’ve never cried in a 
musical before, bring tissues anyway.
The action and musical 
expositon occurs between Rosario’s Taxi Company, the local bodega 
and Daniela’s Hair Salon. It follows 
Usnavi (Kevin Maneffa), the 
young Dominican bodega owner, 
as he struggles with money and a 
romance with the lovely Vanessa 
from the hair salon. Drama ensues 
when Usnavi reveals that someone 
on the block has won $96,000 
in the lottery. Maneffa sings, 
acts and raps with an uncanny 
and delightful resemblance to 
Miranda, effectively channeling 
the “Hamilton” star. Tickets to see 
Miranda in “Hamilton” are through 
the roof, so save yourself the trip 
and support Muir Musical.
Usnavi is awkward and 
endearing, but the woman who 
raised him, Abuela Claudia 
(Reanne Acasio), proves to 
be the heart of the show as 
her relationships with the neighborhood and its residents tie 
the storylines together. Claudia is 
the kindly, advice-spouting abuela 
we all would want. Her motto, 
“Paciencia y Fe, ” is good advice for 
any situation, but her patience and 
faith are challenged when she wins 
$96,000 in the lottery. 
Meanwhile, across from the 
bodega, Nina Rosario (Nicole 
McEntree) returns from Stanford 
for the summer burdened by the 
secret that she has dropped out of 
college. McEntree’s performance 
resonates deeply with struggling 
students, as Nina is overwhelmed 
by the pressure to fit in, pay for 
textbooks and being away from 
home. After telling her father that 
she has dropped out, Kevin Rosario 
(Aaron Albanez) sings “Inutil, ” 
which will be painfully familiar for 
many first-generation and Hispanic college students. In the part of 
Nina, Miranda not only recognizes 
the struggle of students, especially 
those of color, but also makes it 
something worth singing about. 
Despite family tensions, Nina 
finds solace with Benny, a hopeful 
employee of her father’s taxi 
company. Their budding romance, 
captured beautifully by Miranda’s 
lyricism, is embodied by the sweet 
and innocent song “Sunrise. ”
After a failed dinner party with 
Nina’s family, Nina, Benny, Vanessa 
and Usnavi head to a dance club 
to salvage the night. Transitioning 
from the clunky, modern-style 
choreography, the dance ensemble 
performs the best routine of the 
show, a lovely salsa, to “The Club. ” 
Their time at the club is cut 
short by a sudden blackout. The 
following scenes set to Miranda’s “Blackout” is a credit to director, 
Aubrey Oxley. It is a balance 
between complex choreography, 
lighting and singing. One of 
the most beautiful scenes of the 
musical follows, as within the 
chaos, the ensemble stops to see 
Fourth of July fireworks. 
Overall, Muir Musical’s production 
of “In the Heights” is the perfect 
pick for the UCSD community, 
providing an emotional and familiar 
musical experience. It comes down to 
representation; finally we see people 
of color in the limelight. And it’s your 
peers as the stars.
— Allison   kubo
Senior Staff Writer
Right up there with the trial 
itself, “ American Crime 
Story: The People v. OJ 
Simpson” takes the stand as one of 
the most engaging sagas to ever hit 
television. By testifying against the 
criminalization of black Americans, 
racially motivated police brutality 
and the public gaze fixed upon it 
all, the series reminds us to think 
critically about a scorching racial 
divide that rings true as much now as 
it did 20 years ago. 
Despite depicting the past — 
almost approaching docudrama 
territory — the show opts out of 
merely reflecting on the trial, for that 
would be to imply that the events 
should be purely taken allegorically. 
Instead, it involves you directly by 
transporting you right into the seat of 
an audience member — sometimes one relegated to the back half of the 
courtroom, other times one glued to 
the cotton couch facing the television 
set at home. This way, you feel the 
show’s immediacy, its relevance 
attacking you the same way it attacked 
viewers in 1994 and 1995.
How it accomplishes this is 
nothing short of sensationalism. 
Though this tactic usually 
carries negative intentions, 
this is not necessarily the case 
here. Considering how wild and 
sensationalized the media coverage 
of the trial was, in order to 
preserve its essence and purpose, 
the filmmakers behind the camera 
had no choice but to imitate the 
visual propaganda in the show. 
From sweeping, unhindered 
tracking shots to eye-widening, 
heart-pounding jump cuts, impulse supercedes procedure in “The 
People v. OJ Simpson.”
Regarding whom the camera, 
and hence the audience, gazes 
upon — the actors and actress 
— the results are a melting pot 
comprised of both the grand and 
the grandiose. On the grand side, 
the show has Sarah Paulson and 
Sterling Brown tag-teaming as 
one of the most passionate yet 
internally flawed prosecution teams 
in the business. Through their 
conviction and fallibility, we at 
times learn what the trial took out 
of those who directly had a stake 
in its outcome. Paulson, especially, 
takes hold of the show’s moral 
epicenter. Though her character, 
Marcia Clark, is presented in the 
show as the star of the fiasco, she 
herself has no interest in taking part in it. Her utter concern for 
truth, misguided or not, eclipses 
even the most noble efforts of her 
all-male colleagues. 
Contrastingly, in the kingdom of 
the grandiose, Courtney Vance is the 
monarch and the rest are mere jesters. 
His riveting portrayal of infamous 
celebrity lawyer Johnnie Cochran is 
as charismatic as it is intellectually 
captivating. His team, on the other 
hand, offers no such dichotomy. John 
Travolta as Robert Shapiro is welcome 
at first for his entertainment value 
alone, but as the show progresses, 
we realize he offers little beyond 
this. David Schwimmer’s Robert 
Kardashian — indeed, Kim’s father 
— is much the same. On the rare 
occasion, however, when the show 
calls on him to perform, Schwimmer 
provides a sympathetic vulnerability 
that only Ross could.
Nevertheless, it is suitably in the 
character of O.J. Simpson where the most controversy and division lie. 
Cuba Gooding Jr. does his best to 
exude the charm and presence that 
helped get “the Juice” acquitted. Sadly 
Gooding lacks both; he neither looks 
the part nor acts the part. Though 
he, like Travolta and Schwimmer, has 
classic moments in the show, it’s due 
to being laughable, not applaudable. 
Fortunately, the show doesn’t 
bank on the defendant. It relegates 
O.J. to an auxiliary role in his own 
circus. Instead, the characters 
who actually stand for ideals take 
the reins and ride the carriage 
courageously into a majestic field 
of complications, ones that are so 
timely, they help the show transcend 
mere drama. “The People v. O.J. 
Simpson” is entirely critical media.
— Jacky  to
Senior Staff WriterFor the youngsters for whom the trial was merely a myth of the media, “The 
People v. OJ Simpson” brings the legend’s raw, reflective excitement to life. PHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE/ UCSD GUARDIAN
PHOTO COURTESY OF BLUE COLLARPLA Y   REVIEW
TV   REVIEW
Directed by   Aubrey Oxley
Written by  Lin-Manuel Miranda
Starring   Kevin Maneffa, Nicole McEntree
Runs   April 2 to April 9
Location   Mandeville Auditorium
Starring   Sarah Paulson, Sterling Brown
Runs   Season Finale Aired 4/6 on FX
Created by   Scott Alexander & Larry Karaszewskimuir  musical:  In  the  heights
American  crime  stor y:
The  people  v.  oj  simpsonA
A-10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 7, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDS$
Gua rdian Classifieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifieds
BIKES
Beach Cruiser Bikes - $175. Roommate 
and I are moving cross country and 
can’t take the bikes. Bought them in 
September. In attractive condition. 
Kept inside when not in use. One 
is sea foam green and one is grey-
blue. Both with floral cup holders and 
wicker baskets. Listing ID: 251268099 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
MGX Mongoose Mountain Bike - 
$200. Very rare bike! New tires, gears 
adjusted, polished frame, aluminum. 
Listing ID: 251268098 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tion
Bike Emergency Kit - $20. Cannondale 
bag, cable/padlock,etc. Listing ID: 
251268095 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
ELECTRONICS
Microsoft Xbox 360 S - $160. Model 
1439 250GB model. Almost never 
used. Bought for an ex and we broke 
up within months. Comes with 
everything you see. Game console 
(no box), two wireless controllers, 
three games (Halo Wars, Portal and 
LA Noire). $160 firm. No trades. Public 
meet only. Listing ID: 251268171 at 
ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for 
more information
Moto G-Verizon Only - $40. Have 
two Moto G phones available. Both 
about same condition. Scratches 
on the back. No scratches on the 
screen. Both work fine. I’ll sell the two 
phones for $70 or $40 each. Listing 
ID: 251268168 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
VIZIO 3D SLIM 55 Smart TV 1080p 
- $799. 54.64-inch diagonal TruLED 
LCD HDTV with 1080p resolution, full 
HD 3D, and VIZIO internet apps. Full-
array TruLED back lighting with Smart 
Dimming (120 zones). Delivers realistic, 
vivid video with amazing contrast. Built-
in Wi-Fi connectivity with Internet Apps 
for access to Netflix, VUDU HD movies, 
Pandora internet radio, and more. 480Hz 
SPS Smooth Motion technology delivers 
480 scenes per second for clarity of fast 
action scenes and blur-free pictures. Listing 
ID: 251268162 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
FURNITURE
Sofa Bed BEDDINGE (IKEA) - $120. 
Condition: 7/10. Dimension: 200x100. 
Red and blue covers available. Comes 
with two cushions with red case. 
Listing ID: 251268174 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more informa -
tion
Round Oak Dining Table, 5 Chairs 
- $100. 4’ across without leaves. 
Beautiful table in excellent condi -
tion with two leaves. Comes apart 
easily at base for transport. Listing 
ID: 250245813 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
Belleview Slate Loveseat - $200. 
Parting with this very comfortable 
loveseat due to relocation. Bought 
at Living Spaces two years ago, SKU: 
64160. Listing ID: 250245811 at ucs -
dguardian.org/classifieds for more 
informationComplete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in 
bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies 
on how to solve Sudoku, visit www.sudoku.org.ukLevel: 1234 Level: 1234
SUDOKU
ULTRAZONE LASER
TAG IS HIRING! 
WE ARE LOOKING FOR OUR 
NEXT GREAT EMPLOYEE for 
WEEKENDS and for SUMMER.  
Are you hard working? 
Dedicated? Really outgoing?  
You can actually have an 
exciting job!
Contact us at 
employment@
ultrazonesandiego.com.
State your name and contact cell number.
15% OFF
of any purchase
Applicable March 31 to April 8
Date restrictions apply.*
*Dates & Times:
Mon. to Fri. 10:30am - 10pm
Sat. to Sun. 12pm - 5pm
Located at the Student Services Center
(across from the Price Center)
Dr. Terranova, Dr. Sherman, and Dr. Horne
TORREY PINES
DENTAL ARTS
We welcome UCSD Staff & Students
Richard L Sherman DDS
Steven B. Horne DDS
Scripps/Ximed Medical Center
9850 Genessee Avenue #720
La Jolla, CA 92037
858-453-5525
Info@TorreyPinesDentalArts.com
www.TorreyPinesDentalArts.com• All dental services provided in one 
convenient location
• We accept all UCSD Insurance Plans
• New Patients & Emergencies Welcome
• Easily accessible from Campus -
right across from the UCSD baseball 
field; on the UCSD Bus Line.
SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 7, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
Riding in on a two-game losing 
streak, the No. 10 UCSD women’s 
water polo team looked to right 
the ship in its three-game stint over 
the weekend. The Tritons achieved 
their goal and then some, as they 
absolutely pulverized Sonoma State, 
Cal State Monterey Bay and Cal 
State East Bay by an overall margin 
of 39–13 to improve to a 22–9 
overall record.
Game One
During their first game of the 
weekend, the Tritons wasted no 
time putting up points. Just two 
minutes into the first period, UCSD 
redshirt junior two-meter defender 
Alexis Wieseler scored the first of 
her four goals to take the Triton’s 
first point of the game. After a last-
second goal by the Seawolves cut the 
Tritons’ advantage to just 3–2, the 
match looked like it would turn into 
a tight, back-and-forth affair. 
Despite the close start, the Tritons 
clamped down on defense and went 
on to outscore the Seawolves 7–2 for 
the remaining three periods. Thanks 
to a strong showing on defense, the 
Tritons finished the game with a 
comfortable 10–4 victory.
The Tritons would’ve had a much 
harder time with the Seawolves were 
it not for Wieseler’s astounding game-high four goals on five shots. 
Senior attacker Emma Sasson came 
in right behind her with another 
two goals on three shots, while 
sophomore goalie Emma Scholz 
helped defend the fort with two 
saves in just eight minutes of play. 
With the Tritons’ win, the 
Seawolves fell to 10–12 overall and 
1–1 in conference play.
Game Two
Regardless of the fact it was 
their second game in a day, UCSD’s 
indefatigable pursuit of perfection 
was met with little resistance in its 
match against Cal State Monterey 
Bay. As if it were disappointed by 
its start to the previous match, the 
Tritons’ offense came out firing on 
all cylinders, outscoring the Otters 
5–1 in just four minutes. But the 
buck wouldn’t stop there, because 
even after utterly deflating the 
Otters in the first period, the Tritons’ 
relentless offense would not feel a 
modicum of mercy for its WWPA 
rivals, as it effortlessly outscored the 
Otters 14–3 for the rest of the game.
The Tritons dominated through 
a balanced attack, with points 
coming from 11 different players. 
Freshman center Chanel Schilling 
led the attack with five goals on 
eight shots, while Wieseler’s hot 
streak continued, converting all four 
of her shot attempts. Of course, UCSD couldn’t have 
dominated without some good, old-
fashioned defense. Scholz had an 
incredible 15 saves and two steals, 
only coughing up six points to the 
desperate Otters. Freshman attackers 
Riley Heiduk and Shelby Stender 
stayed alert on defense with four and 
three steals apiece, respectively.
After the dust had settled, the 
Otters dropped to a 4–20 overall 
record and just 0–2 in the WWPA.
Game Three
After getting a night’s worth of 
rest, the UCSD women’s water polo 
team was back at it again in its final 
game of the weekend against Cal 
State East Bay. Having clearly cooled 
off from its previous match, the 
opening act was a much quieter and 
far less brutal affair, finishing with 
a 2–0 UCSD advantage. Following 
that, the Pioneers showed some 
signs of life, securing two points of 
their own in the second period. 
Unfortunately for them, they 
could not solve the issue plaguing 
teams all weekend: how to stop the 
Tritons’ offense. Just when it looked 
like the Pioneers might outscore the 
Tritons in the second period, quick 
scores by Schilling and freshman 
attacker Krista Schneider in the final 
minute put the Tritons ahead 5–2 at 
the half.
Even after matching a little more than a third of their scoring output 
in their battle against the Otters, the 
Tritons found a way to match any 
and all of their opponent’s scores, 
eventually gaining a well-deserved 
8–3 victory.
Junior center Lauren Boyer 
scored almost half the team’s points 
with three goals while also snagging 
three steals, leading the team in both 
statistics. Senior goalie Courtney 
Miller led on the defensive end by 
stopping six shots on the goal, while 
also grabbing a steal. With UCSD’s 
36 shots, compared to Cal State East 
Bay’s 19, the Tritons kept up the 
pressure offensively throughout the 
match — just enough to earn their 
third victory of the weekend.
“I think our team is peaking 
right now, ” UCSD Head Coach 
Brad Kreutzkamp told the Athletics 
Department. “Our communication 
has been great. We never take 
anything for granted. ”
With the victories, the Tritons 
improved to an impressive 22–9 
overall and 3–0 in conference, while 
the Pioneers fell to 13–9 overall. 
UCSD gets a long break until its 
next game against California Baptist 
on April 16.
week  in
summar y
BASEBALL
SOFTBALL
WOMEN'S 
W A TER  POLOUCSD
UCSD
UCSDUCSD
UCSDUCSDUCSD
UCSDUCSD
UCSDStanislaus State
Saint Martin’s
Saint Martin’sSaint Martin’s
Saint Martin’sSaint Martin’sWestern Washington
Western WashingtonWestern Washington
Western Washington11 10 8
10 2 11
6 – 12
10 - 46 – 12
6 - 126 – 124 – 5
4 - 54 – 5
4 – 5
WOMEN'S  W A TER  POLO
Thirty-Nine Points Help Tritons Crush Competition  
UCSD improves stellar record to 22–9 as they allow only 13 points over three games, face Cal Baptist next.
BY   A l e x   W u
Staff Writer
readers can contact
alex wu   AdW006@ucsd.edu 
Sunday at the Pedretti Sports 
Complex, the Triton softball 
team ended the Tournament of 
Champions with a pair of wins against 
Central W ashington and Concordia 
University. UCSD beat Central 
W ashington 7–3 and followed that 
up with a 3–1 win over Concordia. 
After losing the first two games in the 
tournament, the Tritons recovered and 
won four in a row.
“I was proud of how we bounced 
back after a tough first day, ” Head 
Coach Patti Gerckens said. “I 
thought we got stronger as the 
tournament went on. We competed 
and fought hard on day two and 
three to finish strong. ” 
Humboldt State would go on to 
win the tournament as UCSD finished 
in 10th place. The Tritons pushed their 
record to 25–15 in the season.
Game One
Tied in the bottom of the fifth, the 
Tritons answered with five runs in the inning and would go on to win 7–3.
Freshman shortstop Maddy 
Lewis drilled a two-out single to get 
to first. She would then steal second. 
The next batter sophomore catcher 
Lauren Sanders brought her home 
with a double for the first run of the 
game. UCSD would score again in the 
bottom of the second with a single by 
sophomore outfielder Kelsi Maday 
that scored sophomore third baseman 
Rachel Phillips from first. 
Concordia would then answer in 
the top of the third with two runs of 
its own as junior outfielder Meghan 
Luebbert smacked a home run.
The Tritons would then take a 
7–2 lead with five runs in the bottom 
of the fifth with Maday and senior 
outfielder Taylor Abeyta singling 
consecutively at bats. The next batter, 
Lewis, would bring in Maday with a 
single. Sophomore designated player 
Emily Sklencar would then follow 
that up with a single of her own to 
bring Abeyta and Lewis home. Senior 
shortstop McKenna Clewett managed 
to drill a home run, adding onto the Triton lead. Concordia was able to 
squeeze in one run at the top of the 
seventh with a Luebbert RBI single. 
Freshman right-handed pitcher 
Lauren Brown pitched three innings 
and gave up two runs while junior left-
handed pitcher Milana Casillas earned 
the win as she came in for relief for 
four innings and gave up just one run. 
However, Concordia freshman Jessica 
Lambourn was the losing pitcher, as 
she gave up five runs in 4.1 innings. 
Game Two
The Tritons scored three runs in 
the fifth en route to a 3–1 win against 
Central W ashington.
Both offenses had difficulty 
scoring at the start of the game. 
UCSD’s defense played well, as Central 
Washington left seven runners on 
base in the first five innings. 
The Tritons started the scoring with 
three runs in the bottom of the fifth. 
Sophomore second-baseman Kendall 
Baker began the inning with a single. 
Next, Maday intentionally walked to 
bring up Abeyta, who would hit a left 
field two-run double to bring Baker and Maday home. Abeyta would then 
come home at the next at-bat, while 
Lewis would single.
Central W ashington would score 
their only run at the top of the seventh 
while junior third baseman Alexa 
Olague would single down the middle 
to score freshman Celine Fowler. The 
Tritons would end the game with 
popout to Clewett. 
Senior left-handed pitcher Lexi 
Edwards successfully pitched a 
complete game as she only gave up one 
run. Central W ashington’s freshman 
Brielle Copodonna would be charged with the loss, giving up three runs in 
4.2 innings. 
Also, Maday was named to the 
Tournament of Champions All-
Tournament Team.
UCSD heads to San Francisco 
next for a CCAA matchup against San 
Francisco State. The Tritons will play 
the Gators Friday and Saturday, April 
8–9 in two double-headers. Friday’s 
game will be played at 1 p.m. and 
Saturday’s match will be at 11 a.m.SOFTBALL
Tritons win two in a row after a tough start at the Tournament of Champions.
BY   D e v  J a i n
Sports editor
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE /UCSD GUARDIAN
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE /UCSD GUARDIAN
readers can contact
dev jain  dajain @ucsd.edu Maday Named to All-Tournament TeamCONTACT THE EDITORS
MARCUS THUILLIER  & DEV JAIN
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | THURSDAY , APRIL 7, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
Earned a bachelor’s 
degree in biology.to get his
Did you know that an MBA isn’t just for business majors? From the 
ﬁeld of biology to music to law, an MBA is perfect for anyone hoping  
to lead others and inspire vision. There is no one path to an MBA.  
And there is no one path after one, either.
Earn your MBA in only 12 months right out of school in San Diego’s only 
one-year Daytime MBA program that offers real-world experience.Now ready
Learn more about the Daytime MBA
pointloma.edu/oneyearmba
CONTACT Kait Vogel                   kaitvogel@pointloma.edu                 (619) 563-2856
High-powered offense leads Tritons to two straight wins.UCSD Takes Two of Three Games
The Tritons overcame their four-game losing streak this past weekend 
as they took two of three games against California Collegiate Athletic 
Association opponent Cal State Stanislaus. UCSD was previously nationally 
ranked in the Collegiate Baseball Newspaper poll for the entire season, 
but after getting swept by Chico State last weekend, they were dropped 
from the rankings. Their playoff hopes are still alive, however, as they are 
holding onto the No. 2 spot in the CCAA Southern Division rankings 
behind Cal Poly Pomona with a 22–12 overall record and a 12–10 record 
in the CCAA after winning their series against Cal State Stanislaus. 
Game One
Head Coach Eric Newman gave freshman left-handed pitcher Preston 
Mott the ball to start the Saturday night doubleheader against Cal State 
Stanislaus who, in turn, gave up four earned runs on five hits to the 
Warriors during the five innings pitched. Meanwhile, freshman right-
handed pitcher Tim Nelson managed to pick up his fourth win of the 
season as he came in for relief at the top of the eighth inning and shut out 
the W arriors for six outs. 
The W arriors took the lead early as they scored the first run of the 
game off of a throwing error by the Tritons’ third baseman. They continued 
to put three more runs on the board during the second inning, giving 
the W arriors a 4–0 advantage before the Tritons responded. Sophomore 
infielder Tyler Plantier started the Tritons’ rally in the bottom of the second 
inning by getting plunked with a pitch. The Tritons quickly loaded the 
bases and with nobody out, freshman catcher Michael Palos walked on a 
3–2 count, narrowing the W arriors’ lead to 4–1. After the W arriors got one 
out, junior outfielder Brandon Shirley hit a base hit through the left side, 
scoring the second run of the inning. Senior outfielder Gradeigh Sanchez 
followed with an RBI fielder’s choice to the W arriors’ first baseman, cutting 
the deficit to one run. 
The Tritons finally tied the score up, 5–5, in the bottom of the fourth 
after a two-run triple by Shirley. The W arriors’ offense exploded in the 
sixth inning as they scored four runs but the Tritons quickly matched them 
with four runs of their own.
With the score tied up, 9–9, Stanislaus scored one run to take the lead 
in the top of the eighth inning. Then Plantier hit a towering solo home 
run to left field, tying the game back up, 10–10. Nelson came in and shut 
out the W arriors for the remainder of the game. In the bottom of the 10th 
inning, with the bases loaded, the Tritons’ sophomore catcher, Steven Coe, 
hit a walk-off base hit down the right field line scoring Plantier from third 
for the win. Game Two
The Tritons swept Cal State Stanislaus for the series win on Saturday as 
they won game one in walk-off fashion and crushed the W arriors 10–2 in 
game two. The Tritons batted around their entire lineup in the first inning 
as they collected seven runs on four hits, four walks and two fielding errors 
by the Warriors. Furthermore, Plantier manufactured a run for his team as 
he walked to lead off the bottom of the second inning, stole second and 
third base, then scored on a sacrifice fly by junior outfielder Christian 
Leung. The Tritons remained in control of the ball game as they didn’t 
allow the W arriors to put a run on the board until the last inning, when 
they scored two runs off of freshman right-handed pitcher Zach Wallace. 
The Tritons’ freshman starting right-handed pitcher, Kyle Mora, picked 
up his third win of the season, shutting the W arriors out and allowing 
them just two hits through six innings pitched. Sanchez and freshman first 
baseman Tyler Durna each recorded two hits apiece while Plantier had a 
hit and two RBIs in game two. 
“The resiliency and competitiveness was tremendous, ” UCSD Head 
Coach Eric Newman told UCSD Athletics. “To come back the way we did 
... and continue to keep the pressure on [Cal State Stanislaus], that was a big 
moment for this team and [its] growth. ”
Game Three
The Warriors scored two runs early off of the Tritons’ sophomore right-
handed starting pitcher, Jack Rupe, in the top of the first inning. However, 
during the top of the third, the Tritons couldn’t get out of the inning as 
the W arriors scored six more runs on five hits. The W arriors proceeded 
to score two more runs before the Tritons responded with some runs of 
their own. After back-to-back singles by Plantier and junior infielder Vince 
Mori, sophomore outfielder Justin Flatt walked to load the bases for Coe. 
Coe hit a sacrifice fly to score Plantier and junior infielder Tyler Howsley 
also got an RBI as his groundball allowed Mori to score from third. Shirley 
followed with an RBI-double down the right field line, making the score 
10–3 in the W arriors favor. UCSD rallied in the bottom of the seventh: 
Junior infielder JD Hearn, Shirley and Mori all had base hits putting three 
more runs on the board for the Tritons. Although the Tritons continued 
to score in the eighth and ninth inning, it wasn’t enough to earn the 
sweep against Cal State Stanislaus. The Tritons dropped game three to the 
W arriors 11–8 as Rupe picked up his third loss of the season. 
UCSD has another three-game series with Sonoma State from the 
North Division this weekend, starting Saturday at 11 a.m.Written by Samantha Glantz // Staff Writer
Photo by Megan Lee  W. Tennis
Softball
M.Volleyball
M. Tennis
BaseballUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMES4/6
4/8
4/8
4/9
4/9VS Point Loma
AT San Francisco State
VS Long Beach State
VS Point Loma
VS Sonoma State