VOLUME 50, ISSUE 6   MONDA Y , OCTOBER 10, 2016  WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
MONARCH 
SCHOOL
THE MONARCH SCHOOL 
IN BARRIO LOGAN SERVES 
STUDENTS IN NEED FROM 
THROUGHOUT SAN DIEGO. 
READ ABOUT ONE UCSD 
PROFESSOR’S INCREDIBLE 
VOLUNTEERING PROGRAM 
WITH THIS INSTITUTION.
MEME  MACHINE 
TRITON  CLASSICSIGNIFICANCE OF PEPE & FRIENDS
CROSS  COUNTR YOPINION,  P age   4
Sports,  P age  12
FORECAST
VERBATIM
“LAST TIME THE KOALA HAD 
TO SUE THE UNIVERSITY FOR 
DISREGARDING THE BILL 
OF RIGHTS, IT RESULTED IN 
THE DISSOLUTION OF TWO 
MARRIAGES, THAT OF THE 
THEN-CHANCELLOR ROBERT 
C. DYNES AND THAT OF THE 
THEN-CAMPUS COUNSEL ANN 
PARODE.”
- Bryan  Barton
LETTER  TO THE EDITOR
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
LIGHTS AND SIRENES  .....3
QUICK TAKES  .................. 4
BEHIND THE LECTERN .....8
CROSSWORD  ................ 10
WOMEN’S SOCCER  .......11FEA TURES,  P AGE  6
ILLUSTRATION BY CHRISTINA CARLSON
MONDAY
H 77 L 62TUESDAY
H 71 L 60
WEDNESDAY
H 68 L 59THURSDAY 
H 70 L 59
A collaborative research team 
from UCSD and Texas A&M 
University published a study in Nature 
Microbiology on Oct. 3 presenting 
their discoveries that dog microbial 
patterns associated with inflammatory 
bowel disease differ from trends            
in humans. 
Previous studies have indicated 
that the gut microbiome, which 
consists of intestinal bacteria and 
viruses, is an important link between 
genetic predisposition and IBD onset. 
However, this study was the first 
detailed comparison of dysbiosis, or 
how the microbes in the gut interact, in 
humans and dogs suffering from IBD.  
Rob Knight, senior author of the 
study and professor in the department of pediatrics at the School of 
Medicine and Computer Science and 
Engineering, outlined the difficulty of 
diagnosing IBD in a UC San Diego 
Health News press release. 
“One of the really frustrating things 
about IBD in humans is that it’s hard 
to diagnose — it usually requires 
intestinal biopsies, which are not only 
imperfect, but invasive and expensive 
to collect, ” Knight stated. 
In humans, IBD is a chronic 
autoimmune disease, whereas the 
disease in dogs is a common chronic 
inflammation of the intestines that 
manifests itself spontaneously. Both 
human and canine inflammatory 
bowel diseases have limited methods of 
treatment and are due to a number of 
similar potential causes, which include 
a combination of environmental 
factors, genetics, weakened immune systems and intestinal microbiota.
Author Yoshiki Vázquez-Baeza 
clarified that the gut microbiota found 
in humans and in dogs with IBD are 
not clearly characterized. They may 
be the cause of the disease or signals 
indicative of the onset of IBD. 
“We know a lot about IBD in 
humans, ” Vázquez-Baeza told the 
UCSD Guardian. “Even though we 
know all of these things, we don’t 
exactly know if these microbes we see 
as so characteristic of IBD are part of 
the problem, if they are originators or 
if they are the response of how your 
physiology and microbiota change. 
In dogs, it’s sort of assumed that it’s 
the same case, but we don’t really 
know yet. ”
For the study, naturally passed UC President 
Publishes Op-Ed 
Advocating for 
More Free SpeechUC SYSTEM
Janet Napolitano opposed 
cancelling controversial 
speakers but affirmed the 
importance of safe spaces.
BY   M i n g - r a y  L i a o
Senior staff Writer
The Boston Globe published 
an op-ed piece by UC President 
Janet Napolitano on Oct. 2, which 
called for a revival of free speech on 
campus. Napolitano acknowledges 
the developing demographic of 
college campuses but maintains her 
stance that unfettered discussions 
are what create critical and       
creative thinkers.
Napolitano wrote that college 
campuses have moved from freedom 
of speech to freedom from speech 
where speakers are disinvited, 
faculty vilified and administrators 
forced to intervene. 
After a similar string of criticism 
and protests, the dean of students 
at the University of Chicago 
recently declared that the University 
doesn’t support trigger warnings or 
spaces, a declaration with which     
Napolitano disagrees.
“Even free speech has its limits: 
time, place and manner restrictions, 
for instance, ” Napolitano wrote in 
her article. “ At [the UC campuses], 
we have many different types of 
student centers. … Some of our 
newest are for undocumented 
students. You can call these ‘safe 
spaces, ’ but I call them a good idea. ”
In regards to trigger warnings 
however, Napolitano believes it is 
adequate if a professor says that 
the reading or class will explore 
sensitive topics such as race.
Eleanor Roosevelt College junior 
Melissa Vajanaphanich agrees with 
the current cautionary procedure to 
avoid exacerbating the problem.
“I don’t think the current 
trigger warnings should be made 
more explicit, because by bringing 
more attention to it, you’re creating 
an issue that doesn’t need to be 
created,” Vajanaphanich told the 
UCSD Guardian. “People who 
weren’t aware of the problem might 
begin to assume and associate. ”
Napolitano stressed the 
importance of difficult subject 
matters, especially in humanities 
and social sciences, where the 
objective is to encourage intellectual 
discourse among students. However, 
she also brought attention to 
incidences where students attempt 
to shut down or prevent speakers 
from appearing.
“The way to deal with extreme, 
unfounded speech is not with less 
speech — it is with more speech, Judge Rules Against UCSD in 
Academic Integrity Case
A superior court judge ruled in favor of former 
UCSD student Jonathan Dorfman on Sept. 30. 
Dorfman had been appealing the charges that he 
violated the UCSD Policy on Integrity of Scholarship ever 
since he was accused five years ago. In 2015, a state appeals 
court ruled that UCSD officials obstructed Dorfman’s 
right to due process by withholding the identity of the 
student, known as “Student X, ” from whom Dorfman 
allegedly cheated.
Dorfman’s attorney, Robert Ottilie, suggested that 
his client might sue UCSD for damages if investigators 
knew that Student X was not sitting near Dorfman during 
the exam but moved forward with the cheating charge 
regardless. However, Ottilie was pleased with the long-
awaited ruling in favor of his client.
“This is a total victory for John, and he couldn’t be 
happier, ” Ottilie told The San Diego Union-Tribune. “His 
record is cleared. Any mention of this is eliminated. ”
According to The San Diego Union-Tribune, chemistry professor John Crowell noticed that Dorfman’s Scantron 
test had been altered. Crowell provided four different 
versions of the exam, labeled A, B, C or D, to 618 students 
who were also given corresponding Scantron sheets. If 
there was a discrepancy, students were asked to notify the 
instructor. Dorfman claimed that the test and his Scantron 
sheet were mismatched, so he changed one to pair with 
the other, asserting that he did not recall instructions 
preventing students from altering the tests, possibly 
because he arrived late.
Crowell reported that 24 of Dorfman’s 26 answers 
exactly matched that of Student X’s. After consulting 
another professor, he decided that the similarities between 
the two Scantrons were statistically improbable and 
notified Dorfman that he was suspected of cheating. 
Dorfman requested a hearing with the Academic Integrity 
Review Board to dispute the charge and asked for a seating 
chart of the students taking the exam, but Crowell had not 
made one.B y  Lisa  chik    Senior staff WriterHAUNTED HOEDOWN
Researchers Make Discovery on Canine Microbial Patterns
Scientists from UCSD and Texas A&M examined Irritable Bowel Disease in both dogs and humans.See CHEATING , page 3
SCITECH
By  J u l i e   y i p
See NAPOLITANO , page 3 See DOGS , page 2 CAMPUS
 This past Saturday, students participated in the Global Night Market on International Lane where they were able to taste foods 
from cultures across the globe.  Photo by Jessica Mejia/UCSD Guardianfecal samples were obtained from 85 
healthy dogs and 65 dogs with chronic 
signs of gastrointestinal diseases, such 
as vomiting, diarrhea and anorexia. 
According to Vázquez-Baeza, the 
researchers used a large sample size 
and measured their data directly 
against data from a previous study 
on IBD in humans, enabling them to 
produce more robust results. 
“[Our sample size] was one of the 
biggest differences in studies that have 
looked at IBD in dogs, ” V ázquez-Baeza 
said. “Most of them have five or ten 
samples. Statistical analyses don’t do 
well with smaller sample sizes. Another 
reason why I think our study was 
special was that we combined these 
data sets with a previously published 
study on IBD in humans, and we did a direct comparison. That’s why we 
really trust these results. ” 
Cases of IBD in dogs were found to 
be drastically different from humans 
in their microbial community diversity 
and structure. In particular, some 
bacteria such as Fusbacterium were 
present in humans with IBD but also 
in healthy dogs. 
Furthermore, applying dog 
samples to dog-specific analyses 
and comparisons on the dysbiosis 
index resulted in higher correlations 
than when applying dog samples to 
human indices. This suggests that 
canine gut microbiomes are too 
different to reliably compare to human 
microbiomes, and dogs are insufficient 
animal models for humans with IBD. 
The authors also indicated that research 
on species-specific dysbiosis networks 
are necessary and may help to gain an improved broad understanding of IBD 
for multiple mammalian models. 
In comparing dogs with IBD and 
without IBD, the researchers found 
that they could differentiate canine 
feces with IBD apart from feces without 
IBD with over a 90 percent accuracy. 
Earl W arren College junior Meryl 
Adam expressed her approval for using 
microbial information as a diagnostic 
tool, stressing its individualistic 
approach in a clinical setting.
“I feel like looking at science like 
this makes people feel more connected 
to the environment, ” Adam told the 
Guardian. “It’s not like medicine is a 
one-size-fits-all. If I knew more about 
my own microbiome in my colon and 
gut, I feel like I would be so much more 
able to monitor my own health — it’s 
personalized medicine. ”
Revelle College sophomore Haley Sherburne described the importance 
of education and empowerment 
that comes with microbial research, 
especially the American Gut Project. 
“The heart and brain have 
long been the focus of the medical 
community, and the gastrointestinal 
system has been largely taken for 
granted, ” Sherburne said. “There 
is so much to learn about [the 
microbiome], this living ecosystem. 
That’s one of the reasons why the 
Citizen Science initiative of the 
American Gut Project is so pivotal. 
It is harnessing the power and 
resources of an entire population, 
while also educating them and 
empowering them to care for their 
own health. ” 2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 10, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
WEEKLIES By Alex Lee
WED. OCT. 19 | DOORS: 7:00 PM | SHOW: 7:30 PM
Music. Spoken word. Rants.... Everything is welcome! Swing by The 
Loft to watch your fellow students perform! Interested in showing 
off your own talent? Check out our Facebook event page at “ASCE 
Presents: You at the Loft" for information on signing up!The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian 
is not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or 
art. Farina, totally cute. The views expressed herein do not 
necessarily represent the opinions of the UCSD Guardian, 
the University of California or Associated Students. The 
UCSD Guardian is funded by advertising.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Caroline Lee
Marketing Director
Peter McInnis
Training and Development Manager
Allison Kubo
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Tina Butoiu
Jacky To
Marcus Thuillier
Maria Sebas
Lauren Holt
Quinn Pieper
Dev Jain
Oliver Kelton
Sam Velazquez
Naftali Burakovsky
Brittney Lu
Christian Duarte
Joselynn Ordaz
Aleya Zenieris
Kenji Bennett
Ayat Amin
Christina Carlson
Sophia Huang
Sage Schubert ChristianEditor in Chief
Managing Editors
News Editor
 
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editor
Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Multimedia Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editors
Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Aleya Zenieris, Quinn Pieper
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim, Alicia Ho, Lisa Chik
Editorial Assistants
Nathaniel Walker, Lisa Chik, Alex Wu, Miguel Sheker
UCSD and the San Diego Community College District will 
share a $2.6 million dollar grant, donated by the Andrew W . Mellon 
Foundation, as part of a collaborative effort to encourage the study of 
humanities, the two partners announced on Thursday. Receiving $1.42 
million of the grant, the university will work with SDCCD to funnel 
humanities students from the local community colleges to UCSD.
Due to the funding from the new grant, certain SDCCD students 
will now be allowed to complete summer internships and take courses 
at UCSD. SDCCD Chancellor Constance Carroll noted that, starting 
next semester, 30 of 60 community college students will study history, 
philosophy or English at UCSD, and this summer, 30 students will 
take on internships while living in the dorms. Additionally, the grant 
will finance faculty from the university and community colleges to create a humanities-based curriculum intended to guarantee 
SDCCD students admission to UCSD upon completing their                
transfer requirements. 
UCSD Chancellor Pradeep Khosla explained that once the 
community college students arrive at the university, UCSD faculty 
will provide the resources necessary for them to succeed.
“We will be recruiting prepared and diverse transfer students and 
making sure they receive the support they need to be successful not 
only in their transition but also through graduation and beyond, ” 
Khosla said in an SDCCD press release.
According to the press release, the university will distribute the 
grant through the Arts and Humanities Institute, an enterprise of 
UCSD’s Arts and Humanities Division created in 2015.UCSD and San Diego Community College District Receive Grant for Joint Humanities ProgramIN-BRIEF    WRITTEN BY
LAUREN HOLT  // ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITOR▶ DOGS,  from page 1Evidence Suggests Canine and Human Gut Microbiomes Too Different to Properly Compare
JULIE  YIP   JLYIP@ucsd.edureaders can contactinformed by facts and persuasive 
argument,” Napolitano wrote. 
“Educating students from an 
informed “more speech” approach 
as opposed to silencing an 
objectionable speaker should be one 
of academia’s key roles. After all, 
these students will graduate into a 
country where objectionable speech 
is the current coin of the realm. ”
Vajanaphanich added on to 
Napolitano’s statement, advocating for freedom of speech with possible 
exceptions when necessary.
“If you suppress new ideas or 
radical concepts, then you’re infringing 
on an environment where people can 
think freely and explore new topics, ” 
Vajanaphanich said. “I think it’s 
important that people get to say what 
they want, and if it’s the case where 
they’re saying something so wrong and 
radical, then we can institute new laws 
to prevent against it. ”
Napolitano herself has been 
exposed to public criticism ever since she became UC President in 
Sept. 2013.
During Napolitano’s UC system-
wide listening tour in 2013, she 
was condemned for her deportation 
record as secretary of homeland 
security as well as inexperience in 
the professional academic field by 
UC undergraduates who walked out 
before Napolitano could respond.Ottilie explained that the identity 
of Student X could have proven 
whether the two students were 
sitting near each other during the 
exam. In addition, the UCSD Policy 
on Integrity of Scholarship states, 
“The Instructor and the Student shall 
have the right to present Relevant 
Parties and question all Relevant 
Parties  present at the [Academic 
Integrity Review], ” which, according 
to Ottilie, Student X would have 
constituted in this particular case.
The university, however, argued 
that revealing the student’s identity 
would violate university policy and 
that Student X was not aware of 
the allegations, making them an 
irrelevant witness while exposing 
them to retaliation.
Gary Pavela, former president 
of the International Center for 
Academic Integrity, questioned the 
necessity for UCSD to withhold 
information that could change the 
outcome of the case.
“I think it’s reasonable for 
universities to have protective 
policies and to be concerned about 
retaliation, but if the court is saying there’s no evidence of threats to a 
witness, I would just reveal the name 
of that student, ” Pavela told Inside 
Higher Ed. “I’m concerned about 
enforcing a policy without thinking 
through the reasons for the policy. ”
Dorfman was expelled after the 
university ruled against him, noting 
that this was his second academic 
integrity offense. He appealed to 
UCSD’s Council of Provosts by 
arguing that changing a version 
letter on a Scantron was not in direct 
violation of the university’s policies, 
which would result in insufficient 
evidence of cheating. He was granted 
a second hearing after the Council 
decided that it was improper for 
Crowell to ask for another professor’s 
opinion, according to The San Diego 
Union-Tribune. The court ruled in 
favor of UCSD.
The state court reviewed the 
case in 2012 and stated that “the 
university had failed to provide 
any evidence to show the matching 
exams were more than a statistical 
anomaly” but rejected Dorfman’s 
claim of having received an unfair 
process, according to Inside      
Higher Ed.
Director of Student Legal Services Jon Carlos Senour described to 
the UCSD Guardian the necessary 
requirements to pursue an academic 
integrity charge. 
“The Policy [on Integrity 
of Scholarship] identifies the 
responsibilities of students, but does 
not specify what the evidentiary 
requirements are for bringing a 
charge, [except that] an instructor 
may submit a formal charge to the 
Academic Integrity Office when an 
instructor ‘has reason to believe that 
a student has violated the policy, ’” 
Senour said.
However, this contrasts with the 
UCSD Student Conduct Code, which 
states that “The Office of Student 
Conduct will … determine whether 
there is a reasonable cause to process” 
a report alleging violation of the Code.
When Dorfman appealed in 
September 2015, the state appellate 
court ordered that the university 
reverse its decision.
The UCSD Academic Integrity 
Office did not comment on the case by 
press time. NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 10, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
LIGHTS & SIRENSLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edu.
Wednesday, S ept. 28
12:40 a.m. Suspicious Person: 
Unknown subject entered reporting 
party’s apartment, RP believed 
subject to possibly be
intoxicated and entered wrong 
apartment.  Report T aken.
7:00 p.m. to 10:30 p.m. Burglary 
to Vehicle:  Unknown suspect(s) 
entered victim’s locked vehicle by 
unknown means and stole several 
items, loss $105.00  Report taken.
7:30 p.m. Non-Injury Collision: 
Lifeguard truck hit object in 
roadway. Information only.
11:30 p.m. to 11:57 p.m. Warrant 
Arrest:  Closed by Adult Arrest.
Thursday, Sept. 29
12:26 a.m. Injury: 
Stewart Hall. Young adult male 
injured leg during basketball game. 
Transported to hospital.
8:30 a.m. Non-Injury Collision:  
UC vehicle side swiped a parked 
UC vehicle. Report taken.
12:55 p.m. Chemical Spill:
Benzozine spilled and creating 
bad odor. Referred to other UCSD 
department.
6:56 p.m. Citizen Contact: 
Reporting party stated female 
is requesting payment after she 
photographed RP online without
his knowledge.  Service Provided.
6:30 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. Grand Theft: 
Roger’s Place. Unknown suspect(s) 
stole cell phone and two laptops 
from table top, loss $2,800.00 
Report Taken.
9:26 p.m. Injury: Canyonview Pool.  
Female fell from rock climbing 
wall. Transported to hospital.
11:22 p.m. Stalking:  Report of possible stalking.  Report 
taken.
Friday, Sept. 30
11:30 a.m. Marijuana Contact:
Odor of marijuana, four unknown 
males seen smoking, but unknown 
if marijuana.  Gone on arrival.
9:47 a.m. Vandalism: Graffiti, 
damage $300.00.  Report taken.
8/8/2016. Burglary: 
Unidentified male used 
fraudulent credit card to purchase 
merchandise, loss $2,514.92.  Report 
taken.
3:22 p.m. Information:  Reporting 
party’s ex‐boyfriend threatening 
to post nude screenshots of RP on 
internet.  Information only.
Saturday, Oct. 1:
12:12 a.m. Welfare Check: Douglas 
Hall. Report of someone screaming, 
was due to loud video games. 
Referred to student contact.
12:38 a.m. Public Intoxication: 
Intoxicated male transported to 
detox and issued citation for minor 
consuming alcohol . Closed by 
citation, adult.
12:49 a.m. Suspicious Persons: 
Original report of suspicious 
person(s) possibly taking bicycles, 
officer later saw subjects
matching description of suspicious 
person(s) parked near Great Hall, 
two male subjects ran as
officer attempted contact, but 
were later found and arrested, one 
female suspect was arrested
at scene. Closed by adult arrest.
— LAUREN HOLT
Associate News Editor▶ CHEATING,  from page 1
▶ NAPOLITANO,  from page 1State Court Previously Held That Dorfman’s Review Process Was Fair
Napolitano: Students Will Face Problematic Speech After GraduationLisa  chik   lchik@ucsd.edureaders can contact
Ming-Ra y Liao   m4liao@ucsd.edu4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 10, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
QUINN PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Letter  to 
the  editor
BrYAN BA rto N  
     This latest effort to limit student 
expression is an uncomfortably 
apt reflection of the UCSD spirit, 
compensating for a dumb idea with 
redoubled determination.  At the risk 
of dating myself, reading and writing 
used to be two of the 3 Rs.  Now, 
non-compulsory writing and reading 
at leisure are banished like the twin 
devils of education.  Lots of money to 
pay gladiators to replace student-ath -
letes, but fewer opportunities for un -
dergrads to find their voices.  Maybe 
Dr. Khosla imagines that, with their 
narrow minds and atrophied bodies, 
we should be glad UCSD’s grads had 
their tongues numbed too.  What an 
interesting way to address the long-
standing complaint of local employ -
ers about the excessively honed com -
munication skills of UCSD hires and 
bolster the spirits of the many alumni 
who mysteriously come down with 
“Triton Fever” the night before the 
company softball game.
    I have long thought that if anyone 
at UCSD were the slightest bit artful, 
they’ d get The Koala an ocean-view 
office in Mission Beach and a gener -
ous liquor budget, then sit back and 
watch them implode. It’s bittersweet 
to find that La Jolla remains the 
refuge of only the most joyless of 
administrators.  It may be foreign 
to that particular flavor of sadist 
that seeks out a position abusing 
students for daring to think out loud, 
but for normal people, discover -
ing your adversaries are not your 
equals takes the fun out of beating 
them.  See also, all visiting teams for 
the foreseeable future.  Dr. Khosla 
and Campus Counsel Park deserve 
praise for reminding us that one can 
possess advanced degrees from top-
notch institutions and vastly asym -
metrical power over students and 
still not be above resorting to mass 
punishment like an overwhelmed 
substitute teacher.  The University 
surely benefits in innumerable ways 
from their lackluster leadership, as 
will the many students uninspired by 
example to someday phone it in at 
their jobs.
    There is a precedent for this 
that’s worth recalling. Last time The 
Koala had to sue the University for 
disregarding the Bill of Rights, it 
resulted in the dissolution of two 
marriages, that of the then-Chancel -
lor Robert C. Dynes and that of the 
then-Campus Counsel Ann Parode. 
Apparently, during their long nights 
together at the office plotting the 
demise of The Koala, they became 
estranged from their respective 
spouses and discovered new love 
with each other. Perhaps it was their 
mutual passion for the exercise of 
dominance over the vulnerable that 
brought them together. Or maybe 
it was in those dark moments after 
they, with the power of the Univer -
sity of California behind them, were 
thwarted by a band of drunken col -
lege students when they first found 
comfort in coitus. Either way, I hope 
this letter provides fair warning to 
the spouses of Chancellor Khosla 
and Campus Counsel Park.
    I look forward to the day that 
UCSD can pick a class of under -
graduates that merit being allowed 
to communicate without supervi -
sion, so we can purge low-rent 
bullies like Dr. Khosla and Mr. Park 
from the payroll.Internships are designed to be 
mutually beneficial arrangements. 
They allow students to gain 
experience working in their field, 
while helping companies bring in 
talent for future employment. With 
that said, companies should work 
toward solutions, such as offering 
pay, government aid, or college 
credit, to supplement unpaid 
internships, as they devalue the 
labor of the student and exclude 
those who cannot afford to work 
without pay, further perpetuating 
the cycle of privilege.
It’s no secret that recent college 
graduates have difficulty finding 
jobs. As such, internships help diminish the rising figures of 
underemployment. Bloomberg 
Businessweek’s 2014 Undergraduate 
Business School Rankings note 
that 61 percent of those with 
an internship had a job offer in 
hand by winter of their senior 
year. Internships without pay 
hold a similar value to employers 
who are hiring. As reported by 
the American Public Media’s 
“Marketplace, ” 79 percent of 
employers said that unpaid 
internships have a positive impact 
in hiring college students.
Yet, as many turn to unpaid 
internships for the “valuable 
experience” sought after by employers, it is increasingly clear 
that, for many, working without 
pay is not a viable option. Taking 
unpaid work now in order to 
get a “real” job later only makes 
sense when, despite an overloaded 
schedule, lack of sleep and 
withering social life, you can spend 
your time in an unpaid opportunity 
instead of a minimum-wage job 
outside your field. Some unpaid 
internships even cost money. 
For example, for an out-of-state 
internship, the round-trip airfare, 
housing, food and transportation 
add up to a hefty sum. According 
to Time Magazine, international 
internship programs cost over $3500, yet claim that 88 percent of 
participants find work within three 
months. Internships are stepping 
stones for students to cultivate 
interests and skills in their field. 
Those jobs should go to those 
students who prove to be the most 
capable regardless of whether or not 
they can pay their way to them.
This is all part of a larger 
problem, as stated in the New York 
Times by Darren Walker, president 
of the Ford Foundation. 
“ America’s current internship 
system contributes to an economy 
in which access and opportunity go To  a l l o w  p ro s p e c t i v e  a p p l i c a n t s  f ro m  a l l  b a ck g ro u n d s  t o  p u rs u e  i n t e r n s h i p s,  a n d  t o  a d e q u a t e l y  c o m p e n s a t e  t h e m  fo r  t h e i r  
labor, companies must make greater efforts to offer aid, pay or – at the very least – provide college credit for all internships.BY AARTHI VENKAT  // SENIOR STAFF WRITER
See INTERNSHIPS, page 5Giving Internships a Facelift: 
More Compensation, More Equity
Despite Popularity, Memes Will Never 
Have Significant Impact on Society
Memes originally meant units of culture that 
spread between people, mind-to-mind through 
behavior and language. At their core, internet memes 
still fit this definition. For better or worse, they do 
affect people’s behaviors and opinions offline.
Memes forge subcultures around in-jokes and 
shared vocabulary, leading certain phrases, slang, 
and idiosyncrasies to infiltrate our in-person 
speech, even revealing, for example, whether 
we spend more time on Tumblr or Reddit. 
Cybercultures, in turn, can often cohere into real-
world communities through their shared languages.
 The Black Lives Matter movement originally 
rose out of a hashtag and coalesced around memes 
on Twitter designed to highlight black Americans’ 
experiences. On the other hand, sites like 4chan have 
hosted a resurgence of young conservatives, the alt-
right, whose use of the once-innocent meme Pepe 
the Frog for white supremacy has led to it recently 
being declared a hate symbol by the Anti-Defamation 
League. Less politically, even the death of the gorilla 
Harambe in May, which would certainly have faded 
into obscurity by now if not for memes, has stayed 
bizarrely relevant to the extent that a candlelight vigil 
is planned for later this month.
 Memes engage people in topics by letting 
anyone enter the discourse and turn it into a 
massively social activity. Misinformation may arise 
from this radical accessibility, but savvy internet-
users develop a sense of healthy skepticism using 
fact-checking sites like Snopes.com. The use 
of memes to give facts appealed to third party 
candidates this year, who cannot always afford 
effective space on TV and instead invested in this 
highly democratized form of media. Gary Johnson 
spent $30,000 on memes for his campaign, and Jill 
Stein endorsed her own “dank memes” on Twitter 
and Facebook. Since anyone can make memes in 
response, these efforts can backfire, but this reflects 
their democratic nature and reveals how the means of 
producing memes invariably remain with the masses.
                   — THOMAS FINN
Senior Staff WriterMemes Create and Facilitate Inclusive 
Discussion in Politics and in Pop Culture
That memes have become inescapable is a 
modern fact. Politicians know this to be a blessing 
and a curse: while binders-full-of-women memes 
were launched against Romney by users as early 
as during the 2012 presidential debate, Trump has 
embraced Pepe as his own — and consequently 
contributed to its classification as antisemitic. 
But it’s not politicians who are profiting 
the most from engaging users with memes. As 
explored in a lengthy New Y ork Times feature, 
there is a segment of Facebook pages — including 
Occupy Democrats and US Uncut, among many 
others — that appear to be political news sources 
but redirect to ad-strewn websites, existing purely 
for the sake of raking in revenue for the page-
owners. The audience for these sites is people 
who are looking to engage in political discourse 
on Facebook, and as evidenced by the often-
misinformed content, for whom accuracy is not 
a priority. Adam Nicoloff, who runs one of these 
Facebook pages, describes making over $20,000 in 
a good month. 
It is clear that memes have transcended niche 
Internet social usage: they have a firm place in 
political discourse and in business. They have 
the potential to carry social capital and — if even 
in a small role — our elections. As reported by 
Brown Political Review, this is the campaign season 
wherein voters aged 18 to 29 have turned out to 
vote at rates rivaling baby boomers. Maybe they’re 
wearing their #ZodiacTed shirts, as 40 percent of 
Floridian respondents in a Public Policy Polling 
survey reported being either confident or unsure 
that Ted Cruz is the Zodiac Killer. 
But the role of memes in our business, our 
social media and our politics is something that 
everyone should consider. Internet users should 
be aware of their commercialization, and — if 
they find that their memeing is funding someone’s 
dubious business — question whether or not they 
want to play the role of contributor.
            — QUINN PIEPER
Opinion EditorWhen Used Purely for Revenue, Memes’ 
Communal Purpose  Tur ns Corporate
Memes are clever: they stand out among the 
overload of information on Facebook and, as 
such, get people to pay attention to something 
they might’ve never thought to look up. And that’ s 
exactly it. Some people will likely go out of their 
way to inform themselves on a particular topic 
while others might just stick around for the laughs. 
While memes may spread awareness, there is a 
danger that the discourse surrounding these issues 
remains superficial, since it is both tempting and 
easy to limit your political participation to a quick 
like or share.
Creating a meme and sharing it doesn’t actualize 
change unless the individuals participate in politics 
outside of social media. In order for memes to be 
effective, it is necessary that the individuals sharing 
them understand what is being commented upon 
in the first place. Every meme, regardless of how 
relevant it is, refers to something that is buzzing 
within popular culture. 
According to the Pew Research Center, 
approximately 27 percent of American households 
do not have access to a computer with internet 
access. That’ s a lot of people, considering that in 
2008 only 62.5 percent of eligible voters voted in 
the presidential election and, with 57.5 percent, 
even fewer participated in 2012. The luxury of 
Internet access and of being educated enough 
demonstrates that the power of memes is limited. 
Memes reach only those who are likely to be 
familiar with the issues at hand, and continue a 
conversation within these networks rather than 
fomenting actual change. As such, facilitating 
the spread of memes and participating in politics 
exclusively online are both inadequate methods 
of raising awareness, since being conscious of the 
underlying nuances of a meme is necessary to 
being influenced by it. Those of us who do have 
access to the Internet have a responsibility to share 
and continue discourse about the values and issues 
we care about offline, in whatever ways we can.
  — TINA BUTOIU
Staff Writer
QUICK TAKESWHAT’S IN A MEME? THE FOREST HUES OF PEPE’S VERSATILE FACIAL EXPRESSION MAY HAVE ONCE WARMED OUR 
SCREENS AND OUR HEARTS, BUT ITS RECENT CLASSIFICATION AS AN ANTISEMETIC SYMBOL BRINGS INTO QUESTION HOW 
ONCE-NICHE MEMES CAN HAVE LASTING IMPACTS ON POLITICS, BUSINESS AND PUBLIC DISCUSSION.A W Alk to 
Rememe beROPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 10, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
FALL 2016
M: 9am-1pm
TuTh: 11am-3pm
W: 10am-2pm
F: 9am-2pmAT THE ORIGINAL STUDENT CENTERHOURS
To Make Internships 
More Equitable, Draw 
From a More Diverse Pool
to the people who already have the 
most of both. ” 
Doug Borwick, President of the 
Board of the Association of Arts, 
furthers this sentiment, stating 
that, “factors existing without an 
intent to discriminate can still 
have deeply negative impacts... 
That is the essence of systemic 
privilege. ” This privilege reveals 
a broader implication. When the 
compounding effect of prejudice 
shuts out working-class students, 
entire industries suffer deficits 
from their talent and perspective. 
Solutions to diminish the 
opportunity gap and halt the cycle 
of privilege exist in threefold. 
First, companies should offer, 
at the very least, the minimum-
wage. Compensation for students’ 
contributions is far from an abstract 
concept, and it will eliminate 
barriers that prevent many students 
from pursuing these opportunities. 
Second, college credit offers benefits 
for the students, the employers 
and the universities advocating 
their programs’ connections to 
the companies. As illustrated by 
Terry Hartle of the American 
Council on Education, “having 
academic credit increases the value 
of the internship. It means that 
somebody is trying to make sure 
the internship is a good, productive 
experience. ” Third, programs 
should be implemented that allow 
nonprofit organizations to depend 
on governmental aid to create 
paid internships. Researchers at 
the Economic Policy Institute and 
Demos have proposed the Student Opportunity Program, which would 
offer $3,500 for three-month grants 
and $7,000 for six-month grants 
to students who couldn’t afford to 
work without compensation. Such 
plans demonstrate a growing effort 
to provide opportunities to aid 
lower-income students, and they 
use already prevalent need-based 
programs to provide aid. While 
college credit is a step in the right 
direction, a government-based 
aid program would fully open up opportunities to more students 
nationwide.
For American college students, 
internships provide the foothold for 
the path to the American dream. 
Policy changes are possible to make 
internships more accessible, and by 
implementing these reforms, the 
inequality gap can be narrowed and 
circle of opportunity widened.
Policy changes are 
possible to make internships 
more accessible, and by 
implementing these reforms, 
the inequality gap can be 
narrowed and the circle of 
opportunity widened.
“
“
“
“AARTHI  VENKA TWORLDFRONT WINDOW  By Christina Carlson
▶ INTERNSHIPS from page 4
AVENKAT@ucsd.edu6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 10, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
OLIVER KEL TON
features@ucsdguardian.org
From Lecture Halls to Classrooms: 
The Monarch School
By Susanti Sarkar // Staff Writer and Oliver Kelton // Features Editor
Students often lack opportunities 
to connect what they learn 
in class to real-life situations, 
but that is exactly what Making 
of the Modern World professor 
Edmond Chang has helped students 
accomplish through his work at the 
Monarch School in San Diego.
Founded in 1987 by teacher 
Sandra McBrayer, the Monarch 
School is a K-12 school that aims 
to educate students impacted by 
homelessness, or those living in 
shelters and transient homes, so 
that they can develop the necessary 
skills for future success. Chang came 
across this school in his search for 
a way to get his MMW students to 
actually see the real-life impact of 
the social injustice they had only 
read about in class.
“We talk a lot about the inequality 
that exists in our education system, ” 
Chang told the UCSD Guardian. 
“We read this piece from Jonathan 
Kozol’s ‘Savage Inequality’ about what 
he calls the educational apartheid in 
our country — the disparity in our 
inner city schools versus the more 
affluent neighborhoods — and a lot 
of students felt passionate about that 
and wanted to make a difference, so I 
started exploring different programs 
and different support systems that 
could, even in a very small way, kind 
of balance this inequality, ” Chang said.
Chang emphasized that 
volunteering to help the poor does 
not necessarily have to include going 
to a third-world country, as many 
seem to think.
“When we say ‘global citizen,’ 
we shouldn’t confine ourselves to 
thinking you need to be halfway 
around the world to be helping 
people, ” Chang said. “Right here, 
close at home, this is part of our 
world. Sometimes there actually is 
more that separates us from people 
that we are in great proximity to 
— an impoverished neighborhood 
that’s really close to where we are — 
as opposed to people who live very 
similar middle-class lives like ours 
halfway around the world. ”
When Chang began his involvement with the Monarch 
school seven years ago, the vast 
majority of the volunteers were 
retirees. Though they were very 
good at teaching and mentoring the 
students, being from a very different 
generation meant they could not 
relate to them in the same way that 
college students could. He feels that 
the volunteers from UCSD proved 
to be an excellent match for the 
school, as the students have helped 
bridge the generation gap and have 
also given the children people to 
look up to.
“Our volunteers were in many 
ways role models, and gave them 
hope and gave them a clear sense of, 
‘Wow, you know I could do this if I 
stay focused on my studies, ’ and so 
on, ” Chang said.
This academic help and guidance 
is a huge part of what the volunteers 
do through after-school tutoring 
programs or helping students in 
class. This one-on-one assistance 
especially helps when the teachers 
have too many students to take care 
of at a time.
This is a problem that has 
improved greatly since four years 
ago when the campus was located in 
a cramped warehouse in Little Italy. 
The new building can accommodate 
close to 400 students and boasts 
state-of-the-art facilities. Sadly, 
however, even this number falls 
short of the total number of students 
in need; there are currently over 
22,000 homeless students in San 
Diego County. With the students 
they do accommodate, however, the 
Monarch School provides essentials 
that the children don’t receive at 
home: backpacks, hygiene products, 
clothes, etc.  With these resources, 
each child can receive a stable 
environment as well as skills that 
will help them lead a self-sufficient 
life.
“The understanding is that unlike 
most students, they don’t have a 
typical home to go to, so the school 
makes up for a lot of things that 
students can rely on in a typical 
home environment. You could Every year, students of Professor Edmond Chang go to the Monarch School in 
Barrio Logan to serve children living with or threatened by housing insecurity. 
The Guardian sat down with Chang to learn more about this incredible volunteer 
program and the students who take part in it.FEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 10, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
Oliver  Kel ton    okelton@ucsd.edu
Susanti  Sarkar   s5sarkar@ucsd.edualmost say that this is a second home to 
them, ” Chang explained. “That’s what I 
see Monarch School as — something that 
really opens our eyes to kids who from 
such an early stage in life are dealt this 
challenging card where there are just so 
many obstacles in their way to succeeding 
in life. And this school does all it can 
to alleviate that kind of inequality and 
imbalance. ” 
The connection between the Monarch 
students and UCSD volunteers is far 
from a one-way street. Being classroom 
assistants allows the volunteers to see 
firsthand how a good teacher operates in 
a classroom.
“They are learning from probably 
some of the most accomplished and 
devoted teachers in the county because 
they have to really care about students 
and education to work at a school like 
that, ” Chang said.
In fact, many volunteers decided after 
their valuable experience at the Monarch 
School that they wanted to pursue a 
career in education. One such former 
volunteer, Karinne Caisse, is set to join 
Teach for America in Sacramento. Caisse, 
who graduated in 2016, discovered the 
Monarch School in her sophomore year at 
UCSD when she was given an opportunity 
to do an Eleanor Roosevelt College 
honors project. Having already taught 
writing workshops since high school, she 
was interested in using her experience to 
help underprivileged children. Heeding 
her request, Chang got her in touch with 
the Monarch School and her three-year 
career as a volunteer began.
“My first year, I think I went in with 
the idea that I could help change the lives 
of the kids I worked with, ” Caisse told the 
Guardian. “But in the end, I found that I 
think they changed me way more. They 
brought so much joy and hope to my life. ”
Caisse came to the Monarch School 
twice a week to teach a creative writing 
workshop. During her sophomore and 
junior years she taught fifth graders, 
while in her senior year she taught fourth graders. Caisse recounts that each class 
she taught presented its own challenges, 
but also its own joys.
 “The first class I had did end up liking 
writing more by the end than they had at the 
beginning, ” Caisse said. “In my last class, I 
had a fourth grade boy who refused to write 
for weeks. And then out of nowhere, became 
one of my most engaged students — he 
would write a full page during our warm-up 
writing time before we even started class, 
and that was huge!”
Indeed, the personal connections 
volunteers make with the students they 
serve often become their most enduring 
memories of the school. Chang recounts 
a story of one volunteer he worked with 
whom he remembers precisely to this day.
“Some years ago — this was one of the  
earliest kids to go [there] — her name 
was Esther Chan, ” Chang said. “This kid 
had picked a flower for her … this yellow 
daffodil. He just comes up, and he’s a 
really shy kid; he doesn’t really say much, 
but you know, 9 or 10 years old, and gives 
her a hug, thanking her. So those are the 
real personal moments that a lot of our 
volunteers have shared with me, just the 
connections they’ve made. ”
In this way and in many more, 
the experience of volunteering at the 
Monarch school can have a tremendous 
impact on students and bring us one 
step closer to achieving a more balanced 
society. Chang encourages more UCSD 
students to volunteer and make real-life 
links to what he teaches in class, but he 
admits that the most important thing is 
not how many students are involved but 
the impact that even one volunteer can 
have, as well as get in return.
“I’m more concerned on what kind of 
impact this has on people, as individuals, ” 
Chang said. “One of the most tragic 
things in our society is that inequality and 
injustice are things that impact people 
at such a young age. That’s the card 
they’re dealt, and the more we can do to 
compensate for that, the better. ” 
Illustration by Christina Carlson8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 10, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
ULTRAZONE  •  www.ultrazonesandiego.com  •  #ultrazonesd
3146 Sports Arena Blvd.  •  San Diego, CA 92110
619.221.0100
PLAY THE GAME THAT 
  WILL CHANGE YOUR LIFE...
LASER TAG!
“COLLEGE NIGHT ” — Thursday — 3rd Game Free
LATE NIGHT  at the ZONE — Fri & Sat — Midnight to 2am
GROUP EVENTS — Huge Party Area to 150+ Guests
UCSD Greeks / Student Orgs:
20% OFF   your event!
Contact a Group Events Coordinator at lasertag@ultrazonesandiego.com
I can’t wait to study for 
the LSAT.
Said no one ever.
888-4-BP-PREP
blueprintlsat.com
Use the code UCSDFALL200
to get $200 off the classroom 
course.* 
* Code valid for one year.
BLUEPRINT CAN HELP. 
ENROLL IN A CLASSROOM COURSE  TODAY!
SHOP TRITON OUTFITTERS
to.ucsd.eduProfanity, talking while driving, 
how the mind computes words and 
grammar — these are just some of the 
topics Benjamin Bergen, professor at 
the UCSD department of cognitive 
science and director of the Language 
and Cognition Lab, has explored in his 
research. 
His intriguing findings have piqued 
interest in many science and media 
outlets, including Vice Magazine, 
Psychology Today and The Today 
Show. He has served as a professor 
in the cognitive science department 
since 2009 after pursuing a rigorous 
academic track prior to teaching.
“I did both my undergraduate 
and graduate studies at UC Berkeley, ” 
he told the UCSD Guardian. “ After 
I received my Ph.D. in linguistics, 
I took a tenure-track job at the 
University of Hawaii. I was there for 
eight years before coming to UC San 
Diego. I’ve always enjoyed both of the 
main things my job entails — research and teaching. ”
This quarter, he is teach -
ing Uncensored Introduction to 
Language, which investigates swear -
ing to understand how children learn 
it, why it changes over time, and how 
people pronounce and understand it. 
His most recent book “What the F: 
What Swearing Reveals About Our 
Language, Our Brains, and Ourselves” 
discusses how our brains process lan -
guage and why languages vary around 
the world and over time.
“The book is a deep dive into the 
most emotional language we use — 
profanity, ” Bergen said. “I don’t have 
any particular prescriptions about how 
people should behave, but I'm defi -
nitely interested in continuing to study 
why people swear, and what effects it 
has on their brains and bodies. ”
When he’s not researching swear 
words, Bergen is leading the Language 
and Cognition Lab. He has numerous 
publications on topics such as mental 
stimulation in language understand -
ing, embodiment of linguistic con -
structions and language acquisition.
One of the projects he is currently 
working on addresses how we can 
best design machines that interact 
with humans through language. An 
example involves looking at automated 
vehicles and how they ought to com -
municate with human road users.
“People want to be able to talk nor -
mally with their devices — with their 
car, their phone, their TV , ” Bergen 
said. “We’re moving in that direction. 
My lab is trying to understand how 
humans get the details right — how they decide what to say [and] when — 
so that we can build artificial agents 
that use and understand languages like 
people do. ”
Bergen is also always looking to 
explore and expand his knowledge in 
different fields of cognitive science. 
Specifically, he’s interested in continu -
ing to study why people swear, how 
language programs the mind and why 
language comprehenders mentally 
simulate locations.
“The sky’s the limit, ” Bergen said 
“Wed together AI and data science and 
robotics and neuroscience and you’re 
going to have a good time. ”
Bergen encourages his students to 
explore their world in all sorts of ways, 
and he offers current students a piece 
of advice.
“T o the students, I do have a lit -
tle piece of advice. Y ou have a lot of 
big choices to make now-ish: classes, 
where to live, what to major in, what 
to do after college, ” Bergen said. “Here’s 
the special sauce. Y ou’re never going 
to make effective choices unless you 
know what you want. It should be 
something you like to do, something 
you’re good at, and something that in 
principle — though maybe not imme -
diately — you can make a living at. 
Ask lots of people. Do internships. Try 
it out. Once you’ve found that thing, 
stop looking for other things. That’s 
your thing. Now figure out how to get 
there. All the other decisions will get a 
lot easier. ”
Mel Freilicher is a published 
author and a lecturer in the literature 
department at UCSD. He is originally 
from Y onkers, New Y ork and recalls 
growing up in a school atmosphere 
that he describes as “kind of hellish. ”    
“I went to sort of a rough high 
school. … Most of the teachers were 
incompetent, ” Freilicher said. “But I 
always read a lot and eventually went 
to a good college. ”  
Freilicher attended Brandeis 
University in Massachusetts where 
he majored in psychology while also 
working at a mental hospital. When a 
professor with whom he had developed 
a close relationship decided to move 
out to California to teach, Freilicher 
saw an opportunity.
“ After I graduated I called him 
up and said ‘take me to California, ’” 
Freilicher said. “So he did. ”
In California, Freilicher went to 
graduate school studying literature at 
UCSD. He began writing in a more 
disciplined way, developing an interest 
in historical figures.
“I was a TA for a number of years. 
… I was doing my own writing at the 
time so I just thought if I could keep 
teaching, I could support my writing. ”
During this time, Freilicher also 
carried on a number of other projects including some performance art, 
publishing a magazine and involving 
himself in grassroots politics — all 
before becoming a professor at UCSD.
He has published several books 
throughout the past decade. His 
works mostly concern accounts 
of historical figures and events, 
"intertwined with some fairly 
outlandish fictionalized anecdotes. ”
“Encyclopedia of Rebels, ” his most 
recent book, is the story of a college 
teacher and activist who interacts 
with prolific historical figures known 
for fighting tyranny. “Unmaking of 
Americans: 7 Lives, ” another one of his 
works, examines the lives of seven, as 
he describes them, “kind of tragic but 
great figures, ” including Bayard Rustin, 
Margaret Fuller, Margaret Sanger, Billy 
Strayhorn, Dorothy Dandridge, Joey 
Stefano and Bettie Page.
“They each had successes and 
triumphs but because of their color, 
sexuality, or both, were sort of edged 
out of real success. … A number of 
them died in very sad, even gruesome, 
circumstances, ” Freilicher said.
When asked about the importance 
of humanities in education, Freilicher 
was staunch in his defence of them. 
“If you can read and write 
coherently, organize thoughts and 
information, you have real skills. … 
I think a lot of people who are only 
trained in business or engineering can’t 
do that. ”
The conversation soon turned to 
UCSD’s observable cutbacks in the 
humanities department.
“I think what’s happening in the 
literature department is that a lot 
of people who retired are not being 
replaced, ” Freilicher said. “In the 
past there was enough money that 
if someone retired, they could hire 
a new person. … Now they aren’t 
only eliminating full-time teaching 
positions, but they are eliminating 
subject matter, especially in the languages. ”
Freilicher believes there to be 
an “administrative emphasis on 
not wanting to fund small classes. ” 
He quickly adjusted his statement 
saying, “I’ d imagine if there was a 
small astrophysics class that it would 
be funded. ”
This gradual aversion to humanities 
is not an isolated trend. A prestigious 
college education is becoming an 
increasingly vital component to 
landing a job, and Freilicher observes a 
general fear that humanities won’t lead 
to a good job. Ultimately, Freilicher 
understands the fear, even if he doesn’t 
believe it’s accurate.
“The economy is awful, and in fact 
there aren’t enough jobs for people. … 
But to me, school has become kind 
of instrumental — it’s all about job 
training, ” Freilicher said.
Freilicher also understands that 
an individual’s life experience extends 
beyond their occupation.
“If people don’t get good analytical 
skills here and some stimulation of how 
to think creatively, I don’t think they’ll 
ever get it, ” Freilicher said. “They’ll just 
sort of be trapped in a box. ”
When asked why it is important 
for students to take humanities classes, 
Freilicher commented that they 
guide students in questioning their 
assumptions.
"These courses can be so 
significant because they cause people 
to examine their own taken-for-
granted assumptions, and the frames 
of reference with which they've 
previously been taught to view the 
world, ” Freilicher said. “Once you start 
asking questions about the basis of 
your own analyses and understanding 
of history, culture and politics, there's 
no turning back!"What the Science: Profanity and the Brain
Disappearing Disciplines: Fight for the HumanitiesProfessor Benjamin Bergen
Professor Mel FreilicherBy Alvin Chan // Senior Staff Writer
By Harrison Lee // Contributing WriterAl vin  Chan    alchan@ucsd.edu
Harrison  Lee    hhl032@ucsd.edu
Photo courtesy of Mel FreilicherPhoto courtesy of Benjamin Bergen10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 10, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDSGuardian Classifieds are FREE for the UC San Diego community.
 www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedscrossword
Across
1. Illegal plot
6. Agnetha, Benny, Bjorn and Anni-Frid
10. Show approval, in a way
14. Speak, in a way
15. Consider
16. Solitaire locale, maybe
17. Martin Luther King Jr. bus boycott 
locale
19. Culture goo
20. Lip
21. Pebble, by definition
23. Sports numbers
25. Curlers’ requirements
26. Mouth of the Mississippi
29. Reach across
31. ‘’Norma ___’’
32. Secondhand transaction
36. Morales of ‘’My Family’’
40. 17, 21, 56 and 64-Across
43. Give out
44. Seesaw
45. Trap
46. Sinister look
48. Like sties
50. Lucy’s pal
53. Old Nick
56. Guidance of God
59. 1916 art sensation
63. California valley
64. Lively dance
66. Wallet items
67. Prepare for preservation
68. Emulated Lorelei
69. Tract of wet ground
70. Bad time for Julius
71. Practices a certain sportDown
1. ‘’O ___ let us adore Him’’
2. Baseball’s highest-paid player, briefly
3. Colt’s noise
4. Bear witness
5. It gives one good standing?
6. Let on
7. Red root veggies
8. Late actor Convy
9. Kind of alcohol or nitrate
10. Reed instrument
11. Access the Net
12. How some are taken
13. Employment benefits
18. Scandalous suffix
22. Notable period of time
24. Skating star Lipinski
26. Ear part
27. Facility
28. For fear that
29. Bed support
30. Animated Le Pew
33. Sermon attachment
34. Sucker’s beginning
35. Star of the rotation
37. Enunciates
38. Regrettably
39. Culp/Cosby show
41. Air
42. ‘’___ La Douce’’
47. Ivy leaguer
49. Finishes
50. Kind of salts
51. Singer Lopez
52. Round-tripper
53. Catch
54. Extensive landed property
55. ___ Aviv
57. 701, to some
58. Barak of Israel
60. Razor brand
61. Proactive person
62. ‘’No ifs, ___ or buts!’’
65. Overhead transportsTEXTBOOKS
SDSU textbooks (PSY365, CJ300, CJ303, 
PA301, CSP420) - All are in excellent/almost 
brand new condition (look like they’ve 
never been opened pretty much). Except 
for the PA301 book. Just hit me up if you 
would like to buy, or have any other ques -
tions. Thank you. Listing ID: 306503175 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
Textbook (SDSU PSY 365) (San Diego) - $60 
- Drug Use and Abuse Sdsu Custom Edition 
(Loose Leaf) by Stephen A. Maisto (Author), 
et al. IBSN 978-1-305-03954-4. Listing ID: 
306503174 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
INTERMEDIATE ALGEBRA TEXTBOOK (San 
Marcos) - $70 - INTERMEDIATE ALGEBRA 
TEXTBOOK 11TH EDITION $70.00. ISBN 
978-0-321-71541-8.  Listing ID: 306503173 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
FURNITURE 
Dining Table and Chairs - 100.00... - $100 
- Glass top grey wrought iron table with 
4 grey wrought iron chairs. Listing ID: 
307800135 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Coffee tables. - 50.00... - $50 - Glass top gold 
iron coffee table and matching end tables. 
Listing ID: 306914416 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
FREE Electric cement mixer - Old electric 
cement mixer free to good home. In work -
ing condition but note wheels are broken.
Pick up from DeakinLast Edited Condition 
Used... Pictures and contact information on Advertigo website. Listing ID: 310101715 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
TICKETS
Okkervil River & Landlady - Belly Up Solana 
Beach, Sat. Oct. 1 - $30 - Okkervil River 
(opener: Landlady - a good band), Sat, 
October 1, 8:00 pm, 2 general admission 
tickets, Belly Up in Solana Beach. Should be 
a great show but I can’t go. Selling for under 
face value (bellyup.com: $20 advance). 
Email to arrange pick up. I’ll be in North 
Park Thurs night, or on campus Friday. 
Cash only please. Listing ID: 309778538 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
World Crawl San Diego - Club Crawl 2016 
- What You Get 4-6 Venues in 1 Night We 
start early! Just be prepared, it’s a long 
night! We typically go to two bars and three 
nightclubs. Sometimes more, sometimes 
less. The night has an exciting progres -
sion throughout the evening. Pace yourself 
people! Some of the final venues we hit are 
the most popular and exciting nightclubs 
in the world! Get involved at the start of 
the night, because that’s where a lot of the 
magic happens. The people you meet at 
the start of the night are your pals (or more) 
through the evening. Party on people. 2-5 
Drink Tickets & Specials At up to $14 / drink, 
picking up some drinks in San Diego can be 
expensive! That’s why we get you half way 
there. We will hook you up some a drink 
ticket at some venues. Some are good for 
highballs and beers, and some are good 
for a shot off. Either way, you’re going to 
be saving over $40 in drinks alone. Not 
to mention that we’re going to play a few 
rounds of flip cup, beer pong, and some 
other games that we’ll supply the drinks for. 
Listing ID: 310101778 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more informationGhastly - OMNIA FRIDAYS - Bottle Service 
:: 619.602.XXXX. Listing ID: 310101777 
at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds for more 
information
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
FOL LOW US
@ucsdgua rdian
your vision , our missio n.Your on-campus, s tudent-run , 
custom screen prin ting s ervice 
complete with graphic desig n 
capabilities and m erchandise
available from:
madetoorder@ucsd.edu
to.ucsd. eduCONTACT US TODAY FOR A FREE QUOTE!
JUST FOR YOU! RECEIVE 10% OFF YOUR FIRST CUSTOM ORDER (minimum 36 shirts) Ć EXPIRES 12/31/16SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 10, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
UCSD Stays Undefeated in Conference Play With Shutout Win
Sophomore forward Mary Reilly scores two goals as the Tritons blank San Francisco State 2-0 and improve their league record to 6-0.  WOMEN'S SOCCER
PHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICS
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGsee more at
After only allowing one goal in 
their past four games, the No. 8 
ranked UCSD women’s soccer team 
traveled to San Francisco to compete 
in their fifth California Collegiate 
Athletic Association game. The 
Tritons upheld their undefeated 
CCAA record by defeating SF state 
2–0 to boast a 5–0 record in league 
and 9–2 overall. The recent win was 
also their third shutout win in a row. 
UCSD jumped to a head start 
by scoring their first goal in the 
eighth minute of regulation. After 
SFSU goalkeeper Christina Holguin 
rushed out and misplayed a 
bouncing ball, sophomore forward 
Mary Reilly was able to come up and 
score an empty-net goal. 
Reilly again came up big for the 
Tritons in the 70th minute of play 
after sophomore winger Summer 
Bales delivered a cross from the far 
left. Reilly, with one touch, guided 
the ball to the opposite post and 
made it a 2–0 lead. 
The two goals were Reilly’s 
second multi-goal match of her 
career. They were also her fifth and 
sixth goals on the season, placing 
her second for the most goals on 
the team tied with senior midfielder 
Kiera Bocchino. The Tritons in total put up 
twenty four shots with eight on 
target, keeping Holguin quite busy 
throughout the 90 minutes of play. 
Though UCSD got the win, head 
coach Brian McManus recognized 
areas for improvement.
“In the first half, we were not 
very good, but we got the goal, ” 
commented McManus. “It seemed 
like we created a lot of shots, but not 
a lot of clear shots. I thought some 
of the bench players came on and 
helped us in the second half. ”
This was apparent as sixteen 
of UCSD’s total shots came in the 
second half. Senior goalkeeper Itzel 
Gonzalez remained perfect for the 
third straight game following Friday, 
though it was not without the help of 
the three starting defenders, senior 
Meghan Berry, junior Makenzie 
Brito and junior Aimee Ellis. The 
Tritons’ solid defense only allowed 
eight total shots by the Gators with 
none being on target. 
The Tritons travelled to Seaside 
on Sunday and defeated Cal State 
Monterey Bay 4–0 to gain sole 
possession of first place in the 
CCAA. On Friday, they come home 
to play Cal State LA at 4:30 p.m. 
Anthony  Tzeng     aitzeng@ucsd,eduBY  A n t h o n y  T z e n g
Senior staff writerCo ming into this week’s 
matchups the UCSD women’s 
volleyball team remained 
undefeated in conference play (5–0) 
and was in the midst of a five-game 
win streak. The weekend started off 
brilliantly as the Tritons extended 
their win streak to six, defeating San 
Francisco State University in straight 
sets, 3–0. However, on Saturday night, 
Sonoma State arrived at RIMAC Arena 
motivated to play and put a halt to the 
perfect start to conference play with a 
3–1 victory.
Game One v. San Francisco State
The heavily favored Tritons put 
the match to the rest with no problem 
as they left RIMAC Arena victors 
over SFSU, 25–18, 25–21 and 25–19. 
Coming into the matchup, SFSU had 
one sole victory under its belt and 
none to show for in-conference play, 
and it came as no surprise to see UCSD 
come away with a comfortable win.
In dominant fashion, the trio 
of junior middle blocker Rebecca 
Seaberry and freshman opposites 
Simone Froley and Emily Kimball led 
the way offensively for the Tritons, all 
accounting for eight kills each and over 
10 points. 
Defensively, freshman libero 
Lindsey Chun totaled up a game-high 
20 digs. The Tritons hit .244 (43–14–
119) and held their opponent well 
below average at .123 (38–23–122).
Halfway through the first set, a 
deadlock at 12–12 gave rise to a UCSD 
rally in which the team won eight of 
the next 10 points in order to take a 
20–14 advantage. From that point, the 
Tritons had no issues closing the set out and taking the early 1–0 lead. 
In the second set, UCSD started 
where it left off as it got off to a 6–0 
lead. It looked as if it would be a stroll 
in the park for the Tritons, but the 
Gators displayed their fighting spirit 
and kept it close throughout. Midway 
through the set, the Gators cut down 
the lead to one, 15–14, and then in 
latter stages as well, 22–21. At the end, 
UCSD grinded the set out with three 
consecutive points to take a 2–0 lead. 
In the final set, for a brief moment, 
SFSU saw itself with its first lead all 
night, 2–1. UCSD dialed in and started 
putting points on the board game after 
game, eventually going up 19–8. Then 
with one more twist to the set, the 
Gators pulled eight of the next 10 
points to cut the lead to five, 21–16. 
But, after a bit of a back and forth in 
points, UCSD came out victorious in 
straight sets, 25–19. 
Game Two v. Sonoma State 
After its sixth straight win the 
previous night, UCSD could not 
keep the streak alive and extend it 
to a seventh game as Sonoma State 
edged it out in four sets, 24–26, 25–21, 
28–26 and 25–23. With the loss, the 
Tritons stand at 9–6 overall and 6–1 in 
conference play. 
Once again, Seaberry led offensively 
and did so in impressive fashion, 
totaling 17 points with 16 kills and two 
block assists. More impressively, she hit 
.640 including no errors in 25 attack 
attempts to give her the best single-
match hitting percentage of her career. 
Senior outside hitter Meagan 
Wright contributed with 15.5 points 
while earning a double-double on 15 kills and 17 digs. Teammates junior 
libero Amanda Colla (10 kills, 12 
digs), sophomore libero Kayla Evans 
(career-best 33 assists, 17 digs) and 
junior setter Rachel Linden (22 assists, 
10 digs) all recorded doubles-doubles      
as well. 
In a competitive match in 
which sets were decided by small 
margins, UCSD hit .240 (64–20–
183); meanwhile, Sonoma State 
was just a bit more efficient, hitting                                            
.269 (61–12–182). The 6–0 start to conference 
play was the longest win streak for 
the Tritons since 2004 when they                          
went 18–0. 
UCSD will look to get back to  its 
winning ways in the upcoming week, 
as it has a three-match week with it 
all starting at the home of Cal State 
Los Angeles on Oct. 11. Later in the 
week, on Oct. 14, UCSD will travel to 
Cal State San Bernardino and finally 
return home on Oct.15 to host Cal 
Poly Pomona. The Tritons vitally need to bounce back strong from defeat as 
Cal State Los Angeles and Cal State 
Santa Barbara are a combined 10–4 
(two defeats each) and will provide a 
tough test, especially on the road. All 
matches set to start at 7 p.m.SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITOR
DEV JAIN
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , OCTOBER 10, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
MEN’S 8K R UN:
In the first race of the day, the men’s 
team had some stellar running, with 
three runners in the top 10: redshirt 
seniors Tareq Alwafai (25:47:43) and 
Scott Acton (25:56.47) and sophomore 
Samuel Blake (25:57.83) finished 
eighth through 10th, giving UCSD 
the second-most runners finishing in 
the top 10 behind Chico State. But 
they were not the only strong Triton 
runners, as sophomore Garrett Boulais 
(26:07.74) finished 14th and seniors 
Terrence Luevano (26:13.88) and 
Brendan Gee (26:20.46) finished 17th 
and 18th, respectively. By the end of 
the race, the top five UCSD runners 
had an average time of 26:00.67 and a 
total score of 57, just six points behind 
second-place Central Arizona College 
and a whopping 87 points ahead of 
fourth-place Fresno Pacific University. 
Chico State dominated the field and 
finished first in the race with a stellar 
score of 23.
“The strongest thing we had was 
the middle group really pushing up, ” 
UCSD head coach Nate Garcia told the 
Athletics Department about the men’s 
team. “Having that strength and depth 
really made the difference for us. ”WOMEN’S 6K R UN:
The women’s team had an eerily 
similar finish to its event thanks to senior 
Ella Verhees (22:30.83) and sophomore 
Karina Carstens (22:31.83) finishing in 
seventh and eighth place, respectively, 
tying the women’s team for first with 
the most runners in the top 10. Close 
behind were junior Merin Arft (23:01.44) 
at 14, junior Kristin Semancsin (23:08.17) 
at 16 and sophomore Christa Kloha 
(23:38.15) at 28, which would round out 
the final score at 69 and average time at 
22:58.03. This would put them 15 points 
behind first-place Point Loma Nazarene 
University and just 9 points behind 
second-place Chico State, while giving 
the Tritons a solid 34-point margin with 
fourth-place Cal State San Bernardino. 
“I saw some stuff in there I think 
we can really carry forward into the 
championships, ” Garcia said of the 
women’s team. “ A lot of schools have one 
fast runner. Having two is going to be a 
difference maker for us. ”
The event concluded the regular 
season for the Tritons, who will have 
some time to prepare before heading 
off to Cucamonga-Guasti Regional 
Park in Ontario to compete at the 
California Collegiate Athletic Association 
Championships on Oct. 22.The UCSD cross country team had an early start to its weekend 
last Saturday thanks to its latest races at the 24th annual Triton 
Classic, where the No. 12 men’s and No. 14 women’s teams 
participated in the 8K and 6K races, respectively. Both teams had stellar 
showings by the end of the morning, placing third in each of their races.
Both UCSD Teams 
Finish In Third at 
24th Triton Classic
The Winning Streak Ends at 6 for the TritonsTareq Alwafai, Scott Acton, and Samuel Blake all finish in the Top-
10 for the Triton men. Ella Verhees and Karina Carstens finished in 
the Top-10 for the women. 
UCSD falls to Sonoma State 3-1 in four sets after defeating San Francisco State in three sets, putting an end to their best conference debut since the 2004 season.  
CROSS COUNTRY
by Alex Wu // Sports Editorial Assistant
By Daniel Hernandez // Senior Staff Writer
Danniel Hernandez     daho43@ucsd,eduWomen’s VolleyballPHOTO COURTESY OF UCSD ATHLETICS
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE/UCSD GUARDIANUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESM. Water Polo
W.Soccer
M.Soccer
W.Volleyball
W. Soccer 10/12
10/14
10/14
10/15
10/166 PM
4:30 PM
7 PM
7 PM
11:30 AMVS Long Beach State
VS Cal State Los Angeles
VS Cal State Los Angeles 
VS Cal Poly Pomona
VS Cal State Dominguez Hills