UC President 
to Investigate 
UC Davis 
ChancellorUC SYSTEM
Linda Katehi is currently on 
paid administrative leave 
for 90 days as university 
officials decide her fate.
BY   l a u r e n   h o l t
UC President Janet Napolitano 
placed UC Davis Chancellor Linda 
Katehi on administrative leave pending 
a formal investigation into “allegations 
concerning whether there have 
been serious violations of University 
policy, ” the UC Office of the President 
announced on April 27. Napolitano 
sent Katehi a letter that same day 
informing her of the suspension 
and explaining that the investigation 
examined the employment of several 
immediate family members, possible 
“material misstatements” about her 
role in contracts with companies to 
alter UC Davis’s online image, and the 
misuse of student fees.
Campus Provost Ralph Hexter 
will serve as acting chancellor for the 
duration of Katehi’s suspension.
The investigation follows a series 
of incidents by Katehi that caused 
controversy on the UC Davis campus. 
Katehi first came under fire in early 
March when the Sacramento Bee 
reported that she was an executive 
board member of both DeVry 
University and textbook publisher 
John Wiley and Sons. Then, in mid-
April, she was further criticized after 
the Bee revealed that UC Davis spent 
at least $175,000 in an attempt to hide 
internet search results containing 
information about the 2011 incident 
where campus police pepper sprayed 
student protesters who were part of the 
Occupy movement.   
The possible violations of university University Plans to Relocate 
International Center
UCSD will temporarily vacate and relocate all 
offices within UCSD’s International Center this 
summer, according to an administrative email 
sent out to Student Affairs staff in late April.
University Communications and Public Affairs 
Manager Christine Clark told the UCSD Guardian that 
administrators aim to ensure the I-Center offices stay 
accessible to students throughout the transition.
“This move is a result of several factors, including 
the growing need to accommodate the number of 
international students that the center serves, the interior 
and exterior conditions of the building and the need 
to acquire more space for increased staffing, ” Clark 
explained. “Services to international students will 
remain the highest priority and should not be impacted 
as a result of the move. ”
Founded in 1961, the International Center has been 
open to members of the community and visitors from 
abroad for 55 years. All of its programs and offices have 
been located within the existing building on South 
Library Walk for nearly 45 years.
Between June and September, the International 
Center Dean’s Office and UCSD Study Abroad program 
will move to Building 409, located east of Matthews 
Quad in Sixth College. The International Students and Programs office will move to the nearby Student Center 
B building, while the International Faculty and Scholar 
office will be relocated to McGill Hall in Muir College. 
International Friday Cafe, an event featuring different 
cultural cuisines and live music every week, will be held 
at the Great Hall in International House.
According to Clark, university officials estimate 
that I-Center staff will remain in these transitional 
spaces for five years. Administration has not yet 
determined a course of action for the Friends of the 
International Center office, which has been a part of 
I-Center since 1973. 
Friends’ President Katya Newmark said the move 
could affect the organization’s ability to continue offering 
its services.
“The current plan, with its lack of suitable space for 
the Friends of the International Center, may well result 
in the end of the programs operated by the Friends of 
the International Center for the past 55 years, ” Newmark 
told the Guardian. “The cessation of these programs 
will have far-reaching negative effects for the entire 
university … The decision to vacate is misguided, 
especially when considering the big picture. ”
In the past, the nonprofit has provided scholarships 
for students studying abroad, organized hospitality B y   kriti   sarin   and    becca chong       
See I-CENTER , page 3
See DAVIS , page 2CAMPUS
SEX, DRUGS AND PONCHOS. 
RELIVE THE EXCITEMENT OF 
SUN GOD 2016 AS NARRATED 
BY TWO OF OUR WRITERS, 
GIVING YOU A RAW, SINCERE 
TAKE ON OUR CAMPUS’ 
GREATEST TRADITION.
TENNIS  F ALLS  7-2
Defea ted  b y Claremont  mudd
sports,  P age  11
VERBATIM
IT ALL COMES DOWN TO 
EDUCATION: CHILDREN CAN 
BE EDUCATED TO DRINK 
RESPONSIBLY . COUNTRIES 
WHERE DRINKING WINE 
AT MEALS IS THE NORM 
USUALLY RANK AMONG THE 
LEAST RISKY , ACCORDING 
TO THE WORLD HEALTH 
ORGANIZATION.”
- Marcus Thuillier
ACROSS THE GLOBE
OPINION, PAGE 4
INSIDE
IT’S ON US  ...................... 2
COMMUNITY HOUSING  ....4
BEHIND THE LECTERN .....8
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU  ..10
BASEBALL  .................... 12“Fea tures, P age 6
VOLUME 49, ISSUE 52    WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
MONDAY , MAY 2, 2016
GONZO SUN GOD
An international team of scientists, 
including researchers from UCSD, 
announced today the discovery of 
three potentially habitable planets 
orbiting a nearby dwarf star. The 
findings, published in this week’s 
issue of Nature, describe the planets 
as roughly 40 light years away from 
Earth and within a “habitable zone” 
that allows for the existence of liquid 
water and potentially living organisms 
on the surface.
UCSD physics professor Adam 
Burgasser described the findings in a 
UCSD press release as “very exciting from the perspective of searching for 
life in the universe beyond Earth. ”
The discovery was made using the 
Transiting Planets and Planetesimals 
Small Telescope, or TRAPPIST, 
located at the La Silla Observatory in 
Chile. Astronomers observed the star, 
called “TRAPPIST-1, ” over the course 
of 62 nights starting last September, 
recording any dips in its brightness. 
This “flickering” indicates the 
presence of a planet, which obstructs 
the light we see when it passes in 
front of the star. 
Scientists concluded that the planets 
are roughly the same size as Earth and 
have very short orbital periods, taking 
1.5 to 73 days to complete an orbit around their star. 
According to team lead Michaël 
Gillon, a qualified investigator at the 
University of Liège, Belgium, the 
short orbital periods indicate that the 
distance between the planets and their 
star are very small.
“With such short orbital periods, 
the planets are between 20 and 100 
times closer to their star than the Earth 
to the Sun, ” Gillon said in a press 
release. “The structure of this planetary 
system is much more similar in scale to 
the system of Jupiter’s moons than to 
that of the solar system. ”
The team was also comprised of Researchers Discover Three Earth-Sized Planets
The planets orbit a dwarf star at a distance allowing for the existence of water and possibly life.UCSD
See PLANETS , page 3BY   J O S H   L E F L E R
ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITORILLUSTRATION BYJENNA MCCLOSKEY/GUARDIANPHOTOS BY MEGAN LEE /UCSD GUARDIAN2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 2, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  NEW S
WEEKLIES By Alex Lee
REGISTER ONLINE  AT
AS.UCS D.EDU/ SAFERID ESREGISTRATION
FOR this quarter
IS NOW OPEN!
A.S. Safe Rides all ows 
registe red unde rgraduate 
students to get 3 FREE rid es 
per quarter. 
Students must r egister at 
least 2 4 hours prior t o their 
first ri de. Contact A.s. safe rides: (619) 564 - 799 8The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD  students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. Profuse air horns. Ber ber Berrrrrrr. iPhone runs 
out of battery. Josh is sad. Where’s popop? Where’s Joshie?
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Marketing Co-Directors
Peter McInnis, Haley Asturias
Training and Development Manager
Cedric Hyon
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Vincent Pham
Tina Butoiu
Jacky To
Josh Lefler
Quinn Pieper
Marcus Thuillier
Dev Jain
Allison Kubo
Oliver Kelton
Karly Nisson
Sam Velaquez
Brittney Lu
Olga Golubkova
Megan Lee
Christian Duarte
Joselynn Ordaz
Kenji Bennett
Ayat Amin
Christina Carlson
Sophia Huang
Jennifer Grundman
Sage Schubert ChristianEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
News Editor
 
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Co-Editor
Features Editor
Associate Features Editor
A&E Editor
Associate A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Multimedia Editor
Data Visualization Editor
Art Editors
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Allison Kubo
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim, Alicia Ho, Lisa Chik
Editorial Assistants
Naftali Burakovsky, Nathaniel Walker, Lisa Chik,
Maria Sebas
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGSee More
policy regarding nepotism come from 
suspicions about the employment 
of Katehi’s daugher-in-law and son. 
Napolitano’s letter notes that Katehi’s 
daughter-in-law was awarded several 
promotions and a raise of $50,000 
over a two-and-a-half year period. 
Her supervisor, who reports directly 
to Katehi, also received a pay increase 
and promotional title changes. 
Additionally, the academic program in 
which Katehi’s son works was moved 
into her daughter-in-law’s department, 
upon which her daughter-in-law began 
oversight of the program. 
The letter did not specify the names 
of Katehi’s son and daughter-in-law or 
the program and department in which 
they work. 
The alleged misstatement of 
Katehi’s role in social media contracts 
refers back to the recent internet 
results incident, with the letter 
claiming that Katehi may have been 
untruthful about her involvement 
in the contracts with the media 
companies hired to remove the 
pepper spray search results.
“Despite public statements to 
members of the media, as well as 
to me, that you were not aware of or involved with these particular 
contracts, documents prepared in 
response to a Public Records Act 
request indicate multiple interactions 
with one of the vendors and efforts 
to set up meetings with the other, ” 
Napolitano wrote to Katehi. 
In the letter, Napolitano also stated 
that while she appreciates Katehi’s 
work for UC Davis, the totality of the 
circumstances warrants investigation.
“I am deeply disappointed to have 
to take this action; as I said when 
I defended you after you accepted 
the DeVry Board position, another 
violation of University policy, you 
have done some great work for UC 
Davis, ” Napolitano said. “Given the 
accumulation of matters that require 
investigation, however, it is both 
necessary and appropriate to address 
these matters in a fair, independent, 
and transparent manner. ”
In a statement released by her 
lawyer, Melinda Guzman, Guzman 
said that Katehi welcomes the 
investigation, but Guzman herself 
wrote that the announcement of 
the investigation was hasty and 
politically-motivated.
“This smacks of scapegoating and 
a rush to judgment driven purely by political optics, not the best interests 
of the university or the UC system as a 
whole, ” Guzman stated.
The decision to place Katehi on 
leave has currently ended a 36-day 
live-in and 50 days of protest on the 
part of the #FireKatehi movement. UC 
Davis senior Gilbert Gammad of the 
#FireKatehi movement explained that 
Katehi’s actions indicate larger issues 
in the UC system.
“Though her removal from UC 
Davis might appear at first glance 
to benefit the school, we must also 
remember that this is not about a 
singular individual, ” Gammad told 
the UCSD Guardian. “Her actions 
revealed something insidious about 
the way that our campus and the 
overall UC system is run — that is, 
that the system has turned toward a 
prioritisation of profit as opposed 
to quality and accessible education. ”
UC Davis freshman Blythe 
Nishi also believes that removing 
Katehi was appropriate and that 
she should be fired no matter the 
investigation’s results.
“Under any outcome of the 
investigation, she should be fired; the 
lack of integrity and transparency 
she has shown towards the campus community reflects her incompetency 
as a chancellor, ” Nishi told the 
Guardian. “Her actions in trying to 
cover up the pepper spray incident 
only show how she is not willing to 
learn from her mistakes and would 
rather cover them up with money that 
is likely from the students’ tuition. ” 
However, there are some students 
who have decided to stand by Katehi 
during this period of turmoil and are 
firmly against her suspension. 
Nolan Matter and Nic Doyen, two 
UC Davis juniors speaking on behalf 
of the “Students for Linda” group, 
explained to the UCSD Guardian that 
they do not believe removing Katehi 
from her post was the proper course 
of action.. 
“We, the Students for Linda, 
want to continue to work toward 
better communication between 
administration and students, but you 
cannot do that with pointing fingers 
and yelling “change” while having clear 
solutions, ” Matter and Doyen said. 
“We have offered many to Katehi and 
Hexter and will continue to work to see 
them implemented. ”Napolitano Cited Suspicions About Possible Nepotism Because Katehi Employed Daughter-in-Law
▶ DAVIS,  from page 1
lauren   hol t   READERS CAN CONTACTscientists from the Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology, the 
National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration, as well as other 
research institutions in England 
and India.
The discovery is significant in that 
the planets orbit an ultracool dwarf 
star — a very dim, cool star that 
gives off less energy than our sun — 
making it invisible to most telescopes. 
This is the first time planets have 
been found orbiting such a star.
Because this dwarf star outputs 
such little energy, the planets receive 
only two to four times as much 
radiation as Earth despite their 
proximity to the star. This puts the 
planets in a temperature zone that 
allows for water to exist as a liquid, a precondition for life on Earth.
Burgasser says that this 
discovery has big implications for 
the abundance of planets that could 
potentially sustain life in our galaxy.
“While such a ‘cold’ star might 
sound exotic, many, if not most of 
the stars in our Milky Way Galaxy 
are of this cool, red, small and dim 
variety, ” Burgasser said. “If Earth-like 
planets around these stars turn out 
to be common, there may be many 
more habitable planets out there than 
current estimates predict. ”
According to Burgasser, scientists 
will be able to further discern the 
composition of these planets to search 
for traces of life with the release 
of the James Webb Space Telescope, 
a next-generation space observatory 
that is expected to replace the Hubble 
Space Telescope and Spitzer Space Telescope with increased resolution.
“[It is] likely that we will be able 
to detect the atmospheric gases of 
these planets in the next decade 
with the launch of the James Webb 
Space Telescope, ” Burgasser said. 
“This facility will allow us to search 
for biogenic gases — oxygen or 
methane for example — that would 
firmly indicate the presence of life, 
or search for other gas species that 
would tell us about the planets’ 
compositions, geothermal activity 
and evolutionary history. ”
The National Aeronautics and 
Space Administration expects to have 
the James Webb Space Telescope 
ready for use by October 2016.programs for international visitors and 
planned social events. Friends of the 
International Center also has its own 
thrift store on campus called the Resale 
Shop, which sells donated items in 
order to raise money for scholarships 
and I-Center events. 
Thurgood Marshall College senior 
Vesta Y azdani, who has supported the 
Friends’ Resale Shop and I-Center’s 
other resources throughout her time 
at UCSD, recently created a Facebook 
campaign called  “Save the International 
Center” . She hopes the campaign 
will raise awareness of the move and 
encourage community members to 
directly contact administration for 
details about the future of I-Center.
“We started this initiative to get 
more information and demand answers 
about what’s going to happen because 
there’s no clarity on this situation— 
nobody is saying anything, ” Y azdani told the Guardian. “Many [people] 
don’t even know [about the move]. We 
need to question and pressure people 
[to find out] what’s going on because 
this sounds like another Porter’s Pub 
or Che Cafe [situation]: the archetype 
at UCSD. We should question why this 
is a trend. ”
Y azdani’s campaign has nearly 
400 likes on Facebook and features 
photos of UCSD students and faculty 
holding signs that read “I am the 
International Center” in solidarity with 
the establishment.
Distinguished bioengineering 
professor and long-time 
International Center patron Geert 
W . Schmid-Schoenbein expressed 
concern over the uncertainty of the 
center’s future and discussed the 
importance of having an integrated 
International Center.
“I-Center has served [the needs 
of] a large number of scholars who 
come from abroad almost since the beginning of UCSD, in terms of 
anything from Visa applications 
to learning the [English] language 
and [American] culture, which has 
helped these individuals and their 
families settle here in the United 
States,” Schmid-Schoenbein said. 
“It’s a very welcoming place to these 
individuals and the experience they 
have at the International Center is 
often a life-shaping experience. It’s 
a great pity in my opinion that [the 
center] is losing its home and not 
being told where or what its future 
looks like. ”
Clark explained that long-term 
details of administration’s vision for 
the center have not yet been released 
because work is ongoing and several 
aspects of the plan have yet to be 
determined.NEW S  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 2, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  3
LIGHTS & SIRENSLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edu.
Tuesday, April 12
7:44 a.m. Suspicious Person.
Report of male subject that 
allegedly used abusive/vulgar 
language towards employee. Stay 
away order issued.
11:30 a.m. Information.
Reporting party lost his dog, non 
aggressive.  Information only.
12:22 p.m. Drunk in Public.
Intoxicated male in cafeteria. Gone 
on arrival.
2:02 p.m. Citizen Contact.
Security supervisor wants to talk 
about temporary restraining order 
in regards to specific person. 
Information only.
3:27 p.m. Missing Person.
Reporting party unable to find 
girlfriend after argument the night 
before. Checks OK.
4:29 p.m. Disturbance — 
Argument.
Domestic violence incident, 
argument between boyfriend and 
girlfriend.  Report taken. 
9:54 p.m. Information.
Reporting party witnessed collision 
between vehicle and bicyclist, no 
injuries, involved parties exchanged 
information.  Information only. 
Wednesday, Apr il 13
1:14 a.m. Welfare Check.
Adult male walking southbound, 
told CSO someone was trying to 
attack him. Checks OK.
2:14 p.m. Citizen Contact.
Employee terminated in early 
February, has failed to return 
department issued cell phone. 
Service provided.Thursday, April 14
1:48 a.m. Citizen Contact.
Reporting party just got into 
argument with ex‐girlfriend and 
is concerned about further future 
violence. Service provided.
3:15 a.m. Information.
Unknown person turned a concrete 
trash can on its side and rolled 
it towards Black Hall. Referred to 
other UCSD department.
10:32 a.m. Citizen Contact.
Parking employee requesting to 
speak with officer regarding vehicle 
covered up in Pangea Parking 
Structure. Service provided.
1:39 p.m. Information.
Evaluation for possible hate speech 
on sidewalk. Checks OK.
12:01 a.m. – 11:59 p.m. Fraud.
Unknown suspect(s) fraudulently 
obtained and used victim’s credit 
card information, loss $2,347.00. 
Report taken.
8:28 p.m. Citizen Contact.
Reporting party reports being 
blackmailed by female regarding 
explicit video. Report taken.
11:27 p.m. Fire Alarm.
Burnt food. Checks OK.
11:37 p.m. Excessive Drug.
Unknown male asked reporting 
party to call for medical aid for his 
unconscious friend and left scene. 
Transported to hospital.
— KARLY NISSON
Staff WriterStudent and Faculty Demonstrate Solidarity in Social Media Campaign 
New Space Telescope Will Be Able to Detect Indicators of  Life on Planets▶ I-CENTER,  from page 1
▶ PLANETS,  from page 1Kriti   Sarin    READERS CAN CONTACT
JOSH   LEFLER  READERS CAN CONTACT4  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 2, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  OPINION
With almost 34,000 students and 
over 2,000 acres, UCSD’s size can 
make it difficult to establish close-knit 
communities. Our six-college system 
serves as a way to rectify this, uniting 
students into more manageable blocs 
via shared college-specific residences, 
events and even required coursework 
like Eleanor Roosevelt College’s 
Making of the Modern World 
or Thurgood Marshall College’s 
Dimensions of Culture. However, 
next year we have a few new housing 
programs that aim to go a step 
beyond the college system, reaching 
throughout the university to unite 
marginalized students and establish 
special-interest communities based 
around a shared identity or cause. 
While well-intentioned, replacing 
successful college-specific programs 
with all-campus alternatives has its 
downsides and may end up treading 
on exactly the kind of communities 
the institution seeks to create. 
  In Sixth College, the African 
Black Diaspora Living Learning 
Community dedicates space to some 
of UCSD’s black students and allies 
to live in a community that affirms 
and celebrates their identity. Raza 
Housing in ERC aims to create 
a similar space, in proximity to 
International House, for connection, 
learning and appreciation of Chicanx 
and Latinx experiences. In Muir 
College, an LGBTQIA+ program will house queer and ally participants, 
offering a variety of LGBT-oriented 
activities for its residents throughout 
the academic year.
In the past, ERC and sometimes 
other individual colleges offered an 
LGBT housing option that allowed 
residents to check a box indicating 
they sought placement with other 
LGBT or ally students. This small 
but pivotal aspect of the housing 
application made it convenient for 
ERC students to start the first and 
only college-specific LGBT club at 
UCSD, called Queers at ERC. For 
several years now, this club has 
held weekly social meetings for the 
college’s queer community and this 
year has now been emulated by a 
new club in Sixth College called 
Queer Sixers United.
Unfortunately, as a consequence 
of the new all-campus LGBT 
program in Muir, individual 
colleges like ERC will no longer 
offer the LGBT housing option, 
raising concerns as to the future of 
college-specific communities like 
the ones mentioned. The program 
unintentionally forces students to 
weigh the convenience of staying in their home college against the 
empowerment of living with peers 
who understand them. Communities 
that have already successfully formed 
in each college may drift apart as 
some members join the all-campus 
programs, while others try to hold 
the fort in its original form.
Our associate deans and other 
residential life staff deserve no blame 
in this and have fought for these new 
programs on our behalf with the best 
intentions and sympathy for student 
concerns. On the other hand, 
Housing, Dining and Hospitality 
administration higher up has forced 
them to compromise many of 
these ideas and seems like a fairer 
target for criticism. Bureaucracy 
from on high, where it has little, if 
any, contact with actual students, 
evidently considers it redundant to 
have both an all-campus and college-
specific program for the same 
special-interest group, even though 
the two types can serve different 
functions.
For LGBT housing, for instance, 
the all-campus version can entail a 
more program-oriented experience 
for UCSD students who want an active, knowledgeable community, 
while the college-specific option — 
which should always remain available 
in each college — can simply function 
for those who feel safer or more 
welcome with roommates who share 
their struggles. The former can then 
require a more involved application, 
as it currently does, without 
preventing those who just want to live 
in a safer space in their home college 
from choosing the latter simply by 
checking a box.
It also makes little sense to 
maintain gender segregation for 
LGBTQIA+ housing, since that 
logic only applies to binary-gender 
heterosexual individuals. The fact 
that HDH continues to mandate 
heteronormative policies like this in 
ostensibly queer spaces exemplifies 
its out-of-touch mistrust of students. 
If HDH really wants more inclusion 
and empowerment in housing, 
it needs to listen to students and 
to ResLife as students’ proxy. It 
needs to consistently offer and 
publicize programs like gender-
inclusive and LGBT housing in each 
college, alongside more involved 
campuswide programs, if they prove 
successful. As the new housing 
programs begin their trial runs 
next year, hopefully they prove to 
HDH that each college can handle 
more leeway with which to adapt its 
programs to student needs.OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
QUINN  PIEPER
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
See APPROPRIATION, page 5As the music festival season dawns, we see a growth in emerging artists, 
celebrity style icons and — what has become a frustrating trend and persistent 
issue in fashion — cultural appropriation. Many festival attendees sport spiritual 
symbols as fashion statements, contending that this adornment is simply 
a freedom of expression and an honoring of other cultures. Ultimately, the 
difference in opinion lies in the difference between cultural exchange and cultural 
appropriation. Cultural exchange involves a mutual understanding and respect. 
It does not entail selective adoption of minority cultures; a practice that only 
furthers Westernization and exotification of minorities. For centuries, Western 
culture demanded assimilation from immigrants, and that which was different 
was deemed inferior or foreign. Thus, to claim that wearing appropriative garb 
does not have negative implications is ignorant and deleterious.
The bindi, the traditional dot worn by Hindu women on the forehead, has 
been at the forefront of the cultural appropriation controversy. Historically, the 
bindi is placed between the eyebrows, an area known as the “seat of concealed 
wisdom. ” It is said to retain energy and strengthen concentration. Many Sanskrit 
texts also describe the bindi as the “third eye” . Y et, there has been an evolution 
of this cultural symbol from spiritual to stylistic significance. As stated by 
Anjali Joshi of the Huffington Post, “Indians appreciated the beauty of a bindi 
and brought it into the world of fashion several decades ago. ” Nonetheless, we 
see differing reactions to the adoption of the bindi in the Western world. For 
example, after the release of Selena Gomez’s Indian-infused “Come and Get It” 
music video, Hindu Statesman Rajan Zed responded with anger. “The bindi on 
the forehead is an ancient tradition in Hinduism...it is not meant to be thrown around loosely for seductive effects, ” he states. However, Priyanka Chopra, 
Bollywood starlet, noted that “in today’s day and age, the bindi is not restricted to 
religious or traditional purposes, but is actually a very popular fashion accessory. ” 
As an Indian-American who frequently wears crystal-encrusted, stick-on bindis, 
I can attest that bindis do not have the spiritual significance they once did. 
This is where the bindi differs from other symbols, including Chinese 
characters as tattoo art and American Indian headdresses at festivals. As stated by 
Native Appropriations, “the image of a warbonnet...furthers the stereotype that 
Native peoples are one monolithic culture.” The warbonnet has deep historical 
and spiritual significance and has stayed that way for centuries. By dismissing 
the history of colonialism of the Native people, these “fashion statements” 
perpetuate the power hierarchy that still exists. In contrast, since the bindi itself 
has modernized in its use, at what point does its Westernization evolve from 
appropriation to exchange?
There are clear generational differences in response to this question. When 
I asked my parents their opinions of Westerners adopting certain Indian 
customs, they appreciated the mainstream acceptance of South Asian culture. To 
Generation X, bindis represent the cross-cultural equalization and integration 
they had always hoped for. At the end of the 20th century, the Indian diaspora 
made the Indian population one of the fastest growing ethnic groups in the 
United States, yet they are still just one percent of the population. Indians 
brought a collective pride in their traditions and made it their purpose to pass 
their roots to Generation Y , born in the United States. The critical difference in 
Indian identity between generations is in the development of our roots. Although Marcus Thuillier 
MTHUILLI@UCSD.EDuAROUND THE GLOBE
Prom season is around the 
corner, and with it comes the 
unavoidable talks about teenage 
binge drinking at parties across 
America. We glance over the cost 
that underage binge drinking has on 
society — more than 4,300 youths 
die every year and the economic 
costs were around $24 billion in 
2010, according to the Center for 
Disease Control and Prevention. 
Despite its immediate humanitarian 
and economical costs, the biggest 
problem with binge drinking 
remains the pattern it creates for 
future behavior.
According to the CDC, those 
aged 12–20 are responsible for 11 
percent of all the alcohol consumed 
in the United States, which is a 
reasonable number considering 
underage drinking is illegal. 
However, the scarier part is that 
over 90 percent of all that alcohol 
is consumed through some form 
of binge drinking. This data is 
corroborated by the National Survey 
on Drug Use and Health which 
reported in 2013 that, in the 30 days 
leading up to the survey, almost a 
quarter of youths in the 12–20 age 
range drank alcohol, and 14 percent 
of them were binge drinking. 
The biggest issue with underage 
binge drinking is that a good number 
of those teenagers continue to binge 
drink into adulthood, as reported 
by an 2005 Addiction article, 
“ Adolescent Drinking Level and 
Adult Binge Drinking in a National 
Birth Cohort. ” The article “Reducing 
Underage Drinking: A Collective 
Responsibility” underlines teenage 
binge drinkers as three times more 
likely than non-binge drinkers to 
contract alcohol-related disorders, 
especially when they develop those 
tendencies at a very young age. The 
article also notes that binge drinking 
was more frequent during prom 
season. Watch out, kids — not only 
does binge drinking directly affect 
a teenager’s future health, but it also 
has a tendency to lead to other risky 
behavior, as reported by the Y outh 
Risk Behavior Surveillance System. 
Binge drinkers are 11 times more 
likely to engage in drug use, physical 
violence and unsafe sexual behaviors.
There are ways to reduce 
underage binge drinking, however. 
As an article by the New Y ork 
Times reports, it all comes down to 
education: Children can be educated 
to drink responsibly. Countries 
where drinking wine at meals is 
the norm usually rank among the 
least risky, according to the World 
Health Organization. One of those 
countries is France, which honors 
all stereotypes of a typical fine-
wine drinking country. France also 
has reportedly lower rates of binge 
drinking on college campuses than 
America does.
Alcohol consumption has 
become such a taboo subject in 
American households that we 
neglect to educate teenagers about 
responsible ways to drink. By 
learning how to drink responsibly, 
teenagers are better prepared and 
less inclined to engage in excessive 
consumption. Encouraging teenagers 
to drink reasonably instead of just 
warning them of the consequences 
is a better strategy to handle binge-
drinking problems. Education on 
the Rocks: 
Binge No 
More
End to College-Specific Special Interest Housing Fails to Accommodate Students
BY THOMAS  FINN // 
SENIOR STAFF WRITER
THOMAS  FINN
Amid the season of music festivals, the difference between cultural exchange 
and cultural appropriation is thrust to a forefront. Where exactly this line is 
drawn differs across generations and cultures.BY AARTHI VENKAT  // SENIOR STAFF WRITER
ILLUSTRA TION    B Y   CHRISTINA   CARLSONCUL TURE,  NOT  COSTUME
tfinn@ucsd.eduIf HDH really wants more inclusion and 
empowerment in housing, it needs to listen to 
students, and to ResLife as students’ proxy.
I'm   P A YING  
RESPECT!OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 2, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  5
Generation X assimilated into Western 
culture, they had their roots set from 
formative years growing up in India. 
On the other hand, Generation Y 
had the burden of development as an 
Indian-American with a hodgepodge 
of varying, and often differing, ideals. 
From attempting to explain our 
Indian art forms to staying close to 
our heritage while facing constant 
harassment for the way our food 
smelled to trying to find our beauty 
through the endless aisles of “Fair 
and Lovely” products, the Indian-
American identity is one molded 
forcefully, with years of wear and tear. 
Thus, after having such an unsettling grounding in our Indianness, we see 
appropriation as a belittling of this 
struggle. It’s not so much the bindi 
itself that brings about this fury, but 
rather the casual adoption of certain 
parts of our culture while we face 
the ultimate struggle to love these 
same parts of ourselves. For our 
parents, Westernization signals an 
end to underrepresentation. For our 
generation, Westernization signals a 
growing misrepresentation. 
Due to this difference in 
upbringing, the bindi faces 
more controversy than its 
scrutinized cousins of cultural 
appropriation. How we view the 
bindi depends on how we define 
our Indian identity, and for many, it is through this symbol. The 
simultaneous misrepresentation and 
underrepresentation that Indian-
Americans face directly affects our 
personal development, and it is this 
environment, compared to that of our 
parents’ , that leads to interpretation 
of cultural sharing as appropriation. 
Ultimately, to avoid any implication of 
appropriation, those seeking cultural 
exchange should focus on awareness 
and understanding, address heritage 
with interest to integrate rather than 
to exploit, and use cultural differences 
as opportunities to celebrate their 
beauty.
it’sICA STUDENT ACTIVITY FEE
REFERENDUM SPECIAL ELECTIONSelective Adoption of Culture Furthers Misunderstanding and Marginalization
▶ APPROPRIATION from page 4WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
LIKE US ON
 FACEBOOK
facebook.com/ucsdguardian
AARTHI  VENKA T AVENKAT@ucsd.edu6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 2, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
Searching 
for the 
Drunk T ank
The Guardian weathered all six hours of the annual Sun God 
Festival so you wouldn’t have to. See what we saw, hear what we 
heard, feel what we felt. Written by Matthew Zamudio // Staff Writer
and Harrison Lee // Contributing Writer
 FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
OLIVER KEL TON   
features@ucsdguardian.org
FEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 2, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  7
Written by Matthew Zamudio // Staff Writer
and Harrison Lee // Contributing Writer
 We found our place in line just as the girl in front of us lost hers. She was 
being arrested by two police officers who escorted her away. We shuffled 
forward to fill the empty space. 
Uniformed officials stood on all sides, some with drug-sniffing German shepherds, 
others beside their squad cars. This was the threshold. If we could make it through 
the line and to the entrance of Sun God without being picked off by the authorities, 
our first battle would be won. We did. And the pat-down went smoothly. 
The field was peppered with people. We walked toward the main stage first, where 
a crowd was beginning to form. They were listening to Paradise, a student artist and 
the winner of UCSD’s annual Battle of the Bands. Her style was acoustic, gentle and 
seemingly influenced by the mellow music of artists like Jason Mraz and Maroon 5 
before they turned into pop acts. We easily pushed our way to the front. 
Devoted fans watched Paradise Khatibi with intent stares, but the rest of the crowd 
was freshly intoxicated and distracted — you could tell by their long sentences and 
wobbly body language. There was noticeable anticipation in the air as we waited for 
the secret artist, Louis the Child, to come on stage. The DJ duo, made up of Freddy 
Kennett and Robby Hauldren, was announced days before the event because of their 
contract with Coachella Music Festival. We had never heard of the act, but we were 
anomalies. Almost everyone around us had come specifically for them, and planned 
to leave as soon as they finished. 
We moved through the crowd and to the outskirts of the audience. Small groups of 
students were sitting in circles on the grass; some were lying down. On the side of the 
field where the mainstage stood, there was life. But on the opposite side, where in past 
years there had been a second stage, the landscape was desolate except for long lines 
of porta-potties. We spotted a tall student who had just finished his business. He told 
us to call him Allen, Allen Thompson. We asked him who was most excited to see. 
“I don’t know any of the artists, so there’s that, ” he said. Naturally, we followed up 
with the question of why he came. 
“I’m here for the funnel cake. ” 
Afterwards, Great Good Fine OK and Nico & Vinz performed. During that time, 
we stumbled upon the Chill Island tent, a stageless venue organized by UCSD’s KSDT 
radio station. Steven Lee, from the DJ and vinylphiles club, DVC, was playing a set, 
and the crowd couldn’t get enough. The Chill Island tent also offered arcade games 
and arts and crafts. We noticed that a girl running around the tent wearing a KSDT 
t-shirt was tending to the students. Her name was Camellia Lee, and she was one of 
the organizers of the Chill Island tent. We asked her why she thought her tent was 
more, as they say, “lit” than the mainstage. 
“We didn’t anticipate this, but it’s a happy accident, ” she said. “We partnered up with 
ASCE to put up this tent. I think they did a good job with the limitations they had. ” 
It was around five o’ clock when some of the water tanks ran dry, leaving the 
Rockstar pop-up in the center of the field as the only source of liquid. Earlier in the 
afternoon the Rockstar promoters seemed worried that they wouldn’t able to get 
rid of the hundreds of caffeine-loaded drinks they’ d brought with them, and started 
giving them away like candy. Students flocked to the Rockstar tent as their drunk 
started to fade. They were handed two cans at a time. 
We began wondering if there would be an entirely separate detox area for fading drunks, tweaked out on caffeine, sugar, and whatever other research chemicals are in 
Rockstar. At one point we thought we might have heard far-off cries of “Just two more 
cans! Please!” Fatigue was setting in, so we decided we’ d better have an energy drink 
too. We were handed two drinks and the promoter picked up two more, passing them 
in our direction. “We’re ok, ” we told him. He glanced at us with a look that said “Y ou 
sure about that?” We shot back with a look that said, “yes. ”
The outskirts of the field were riddled with security. “This could be our way into 
the drunk tank, ” we thought. We slowly made our way across the field to the gate on 
the side of the field and eventually asked one of the officers standing outside the gate 
if he would be interested in talking with us. He looked to his right, scanning the line 
of guards for anyone else to refer us to. 
“You’re gonna want to talk to… ” 
He pointed to another guard standing further down who then called his supervisor. 
His supervisor approached us slowly, looking confident and full of answers. 
“Would it be alright if we talked to you a little for the paper?” He looked at both 
of us for a moment, analyzing the situation before saying “no” and walking back to 
his post. 
You could feel the tension as we walked past the security officers. The heightened 
security presence was obviously a reaction to the past incidents of students with 
alcohol poisoning and drug overdoses. Whether it was the cops, the early time of the 
concert or the lineup, students had been visibly calm and mellow for the duration of 
the day. But all of that was about to change. 
We were somewhere by the food trucks when we heard, 
“ Alright now, everybody say ‘hey daddy!’” 
“What the hell?”
We tuned around and realized that Miguel was on stage wearing a sleeveless poncho. 
His attempts to insert some much needed energy into the crowd were admirable. It 
was apparent that Miguel was aware of the irritation over the lack of EDM in the 
lineup. During his set he began speaking to the crowd, “Let’s give it up for my band! 
Real musicians playing real music!” It was a bold statement, but commendable. 
By “real, ” Miguel implied that music created on instruments is somehow more 
genuine than music created with turntables. His slow, soulful beats and wailing 
vocals, full of “Ooo”s, “Yeah”s and “Baby”s, are supported by rhythm guitarists and a 
drummer, but the synthesizer is ever-present in Miguel’s music, raising the question 
of where the line between real and “fake” music is drawn. In any case, Miguel’s 
performance was what we expected it would be: anticlimactic. 
“Please, our friend is in there, we need to pick him up. ” We made one last attempt 
to see the inside of the drunk tank, but none of the officers would oblige our request. 
We decided to cut our losses and leave as the festival was winding down. “We’ll find 
it next year, ” we told ourselves. 
Most students were heading towards the exit or splayed out on the grass, half passed out 
and half drunk. Benedict Paz, who wore a flower in his hair, was one of the students lying 
on the grass. He was coherent, but fatigued. We asked him why he decided to come to the 
event. Was it the music? Tradition? A simple excuse to get hammered?
“There is a simple reason why I came to Sun God: we had to pay for it, ” he said. 
“Might as well get our money’s worth and show up. ” 
Ma tthew Zamudio  M1ZAMUDI@UCSD.EDU
Illustration by Jenna McCloskeyHarrison Lee  hhl032@ucsd.edU8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 2, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  FEA TURES
UP&COMING LIVE  
STUDENT FILM FESTIV AL
FRIDAY, MAY 13, AT 4 P M  
Alternative Financing  
and Distribution Panel 
SATURDAY, MAY 14
7–8 P M  
Food Trucks—free food;  
Tunes by DVC; and HTC VIVE 
Demos
8 PM  
Honorary ﬁlm maker 
presentation with former 
Up&Coming Student 
Film Festival winner Zack 
Schamberg and screening of 
Hardbat  by Schamberg.
8:30–9:30 P M  
Outdoor screenings
9:30–10 P M  
Award Ceremony hosted 
by ArtPower Film CuratorFREE FOR ALL  
UCSD STUDENT S!
All activities take place at the  
UCSD Communications Building
MORE  INFO 
artpower.ucsd.edu/upcoming
artpower.ucsd.edu  | 858.534.TIXS (8497)Explore the art of science 
and cinema through 
over 20 demonstrations, 
presentations, and 
performances by virtual 
reality industry leaders and 
international artists.
Tickets on sale now!
Half Day Pass:
$20 General Admission
$5 UCSD student
All Day Pass:
$35 General Admission
$10 UCSD StudentMAY 7, 2016
DAKHABRAKHA
DakhaBrakha possesses an incredible stage presence that
transcends its eclectic repertoire and instrumentation. Reflecting
fundamental elements of sound and soul, this Ukrainian “ethno
chaos” band creates a world of unexpected new music.  
WEDNES DAY , MAY 11, AT 8 P M
PRICE CENTE R EAST BALL ROOM
TICKETS: $30; $12 U CSD ST UDENTS“ . . . it’s the live shows that take DakhaBrakha  
beyond mere curiosity to utter brilliance. ”—NPR
artpower .ucsd.edu | 858.534.TIXS“Where am I from?... I told you that was a hard 
question, ” Mary Boyle, a professor in the 
cognitive science department, laughed, 
as she dove into a two-and-a-half hour conversation 
about her past. Just like her childhood, the scene on 
her office wall is constantly changing, since she loves to 
redecorate it every few years; today, one wall is covered 
in a Tahitian beach image wallpaper, which provides 
comfortable serenity.
“I guess I like to keep it changing, I’ve lived so many 
places that it’s nice to see it new, ” Boyle said. And where is 
she from exactly? Well, that truly is a hard question. 
Boyle was born in Venezuela and lived in countries 
throughout South America, including Uruguay and 
Chile, where she attended local schools until she was 
12. Her father worked for General Motors, so they could 
go wherever there were cars; by the time she went to 
college, her father’s career brought them to Singapore, 
Germany, Japan, Australia and the Philippines. However, 
when her family moved to Belgium, she pressed pause 
on travel and moved to the U.S., on her own, to attend 
Georgetown University.  At Georgetown she fell in love 
with computer science. 
“It was the perfect place for me to go, because there 
were so many foreign people that I felt so at home, ” Boyle 
said. “ After that I fell in love with computer science and 
became like a consultant and I guess like a tutor. And then 
I got into special projects, and researched computational 
linguistics at General Motors Research … I worked on a 
secret project which was essentially the predecessor to Siri 
... which I was totally convinced was the CIA. ” 
After Georgetown she furthered her education at the 
University of Illinois, where Boyle both received a master’s 
degree in computational linguistics and met her husband. 
Afterward, Boyle moved to San Diego and obtained a 
Ph.D. in neuroscience at UCSD, where she labored on 
very hands-on projects.
“I worked on lobsters and electrophysiology, and 
worked on the circuitry of little robots, ” Boyle said of her 
graduate school experience.
As if that wasn’t enough, Boyle also swam on the UC 
masters swim team, and worked as a Spanish teaching 
assistant. Later, she received a post-doc position at the 
Burnham Institute in La Jolla where she researched 
pathfinding from the retina to the brain. 
The year 1997 was pivotal for Boyle, as she had her 
first child and started her teaching career in the newly formed cognitive science department at UCSD, where 
she has been teaching ever since. Since then, Boyle has 
watched UCSD change dramatically; having been here for 
more than 20 years, she has seen the university grow from 
around 8,000 students to its current size of 31,052. 
“There have been so many changes, but I feel that the 
character of the school has remained, ” Boyle said. “UCSD 
has been the center of anything cognitive science since 
the early ‘80s and the vibe continues to be one of looking 
forward and [being] open to new ideas. The other thing 
that I know is the students, especially [those studying] 
cognitive science, are incredibly passionate, and that’s 
pretty cool. ”
She brings this philosophy of the department and her 
own to her teaching style. 
“Moving around so much growing up, I always came 
into the school year in the middle and was always behind, ” 
Boyle said. “So, I think that I teach with the knowledge 
that maybe people just need to be caught up ... I also 
think differently, being exposed to different languages 
makes it so that I can think about concepts maybe a little 
bit differently or [more broadly]. I think in pictures, and 
teach with every lecture having a story. ” 
Her favorite class to teach is COGS 163, Metabolic 
Brain Disorders, a topic which is very close to home as 
her father has Alzheimer’s Disease. Motivated by such a 
personal issue, she will bring the full force of her intellect 
toward understanding Alzheimer’s and other metabolic 
brain disorders when she retires from teaching, after her 
youngest son finishes high school. 
Currently, Boyle resides in Carlsbad with her husband 
Tim and two sons, AJ and John Paul but she can be found 
either teaching, walking through campus with Poly Ester, 
a golden retriever-poodle mix service dog she is training 
for her father, or in her office located in the Cognitive 
Science building. 
“I love having tea with my students, and in my office 
hours you never talk science, so they are more like a party, ” 
Boyle said. “I really enjoy making my office feel at home, 
and making my students feel at home. ”
In spite of being a rolling stone for much of her 
life, Boyle is happy to make UCSD her home. UCSD 
students can count themselves lucky for having such an 
experienced and dedicated professor stay here for so long.
“I love it here, I really do. I would’ve thought that 
after moving so frequently that I would be bored in one 
place, but it feels so fresh. ”Dominic Spencer  dominicspencer4@yahoo.comBehind the  LecternDr. Boyle, Rolling Stone
CALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 2, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
GRYFFIN
PRICE CENTER BALLROOM EASTWED, MAY 4  • 8pmTahrirCAMPUS
CALENDAR
MAY 2 - MAY 82016 POWERED BY THE CHANCELLOR’S OFFICE AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guardian
Calenda r
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar@
ucsdg uardian.orgWED 5.04 TUE 5.03
11am
BODY COMPOSITION- THE ZONE
Walk in for your free analysis which includes: body 
weight, percentage body fat, total body water, and 
blood pressure. One free assessment per quarter is 
available to registered UCSD students.
12pm
UNIVERSITY CENTERS PRESENTS: MAY THE 
4TH- PRICE CENTER PLAZA & THEATER
Star Wars Day is coming up! May the 4th be with us 
as University Centers celebrates this favorite 
pop-culture phenomenon. Join us on Wednesday, May 
4th for a day of crafts, music, a Star Wars costume 
contest, and a special, free screening of Star Wars: 
The Force Awakens! Getting excited?! Here's the full 
event schedule: Price Center PLAZA 12PM: Costume 
Contest (Sign-up here: tinyurl.com/ucenstarwars. 
Grand Prize is a PAIR of DISNEYLAND Tickets!!) 12PM: 
Star Wars Lightsaber Ice-Popsicle Giveaway Price 
Center PLAZA 5PM: Star Wars Arts and Crafts Session 
5PM: Photo-Op with the Imperial Sands Garrison, 
501st Legion Price Center THEATER 7PM: FREE Movie 
Screening of The Force Awakens! -May the force be 
with you, young Tritons.
2:30pm
CAREER CHATS W/ CSC- THE ZONE, PRICE 
CENTER
Chat with Roxanne Farkas, a CSC Advisor, about 
professional career objectives and goal setting so you 
can be more successful in obtaining your career 
goals.
4pm
INTERFAITH DIALOGUE: TEA WITH TRITONS- 
MARSHALL ROOM, PC WEST
Join us for an interfaith dialogue and refreshments, as 
we discuss our journey of spirituality, faith, and 
religion; learn from our differences, and discover our 
commonalities. Students from all faith and non-faith 
backgrounds are invited to participate. Come 
prepared to learn from others, ask questions, and 
honor our shared humanity.
7pm
GSA PRESENTS: BOARD AND BREW - THE LOFT, 
PC EAST
Join us as we break out the board games and make 
room for a good old-fashioned night of fun. To add to 
the fun, we also provide you with discounts on 
top-notch brews and delicious flatbreads. The 
Graduate Student Association (GSA) will be hosting 
the event! Board and Brew, as always, is open to 
everyone. Bring your game and bring friends - we'll 
provide the rest (board game options provided). Event: 
7PM. FREE
8pm
GRYFFIN- PC BALLROOM EAST
$7 Early Bird Tickets // $12 Regular for UCSD 
undergraduates with valid ID.FRI5.06
12pm
INTERNATIONAL FRIDAY CAFE- 
INTERNATIONAL CENTER PATIO
The Friday Cafe provides a venue where 
international and domestic students, scholars, 
faculty, staff and the local community can come 
together to celebrate cultural diversity and 
international education. Each week the Friday Cafe 
presents the opportunity to explore world cultures, 
cuisines, music and more. Join us for this unique 
international experience! Price: $5 per plate
4pm
LASO FEST: MAY 6. CELEBRATE LATIN 
CULTURE!- COURTYARD, SCHOOL OF GLOBAL 
POLICY AND STRATEGY
May 6 will be a fun date to celebrate Latin culture! 
Free refreshments and food for all graduate 
students and staff. Enjoy live capoeira and 
mariachi performances, authentic cuisine, fun 
pinata activities and MUSIC performances. Bring 
your Student PID for drinks and foo10am
FITNESS ZONE: BODYWEIGHT BOOTCAMP- 
THE ZONE, PRICE CENTER
Continuous body weight movements to improve 
strength, stamina, mobility, and agility. This animal 
instinct workout is a new and fun way to bring out 
your playful side while improving your body's 
function. 
10am
FARMERS' MARKET- TOWN SQUARE
Celebrating 11 years with local farmers and food 
vendors since 2004! The UCSD Farmers' Market is 
held every Tuesday from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. during 
Fall, Winter, and Spring quarters, at Town Square, 
between the Student Services Center and the 
Chancellor's Complex.
12pm
CHANGE YOUR BRAIN TO WORK FOR YOU: 
HABIT WORKSHOP- BEAR ROOM, PC WEST, 
LEVEL 2
Must be a registered student in the iLEAD program 
to attend. Are there certain things that you wish you 
could start or stop doing consistently? Are there 
habits that you would like to change? This workshop 
will discuss habits and how to change them in order 
to rewire your brain to work for you. Presented by 
Sean Murphy & Nideesh Terapalli, Communication & 
Leadership Specialist & Peer Educator, 
CSI-Communication & Leadership
1pm
NETWORKING YOUR PASSION FOR 
ENGINEERING INTO A CAREER- HENRY 
BOOKER ROOM 2512, JACOBS HALL
Learn how to network and make connections in the 
engineering field that can lead to internships and a 
rewarding career. Tips on clubs, connections and 
getting experience that counts. UCSD Senior Nico 
Montoya shares his best advice for engineering 
majors and shares his experiences at NASA, SpaceX 
and Northrop Grumman.
7pm
OUTREACH TRIVIA- MIDDLE OF MUI
Join us for an evening of facts, friends and fun! 
Come to M.O.M to meet new people and test your 
knowledge of various trivia categories. Entry is free 
to all UCSD students and a free drink from M.O.M 
will be awarded for the winning team! All students 
are welcome! Come as a team, or by yourself!MON 5.02
11am
ART & SOUL: DECORATED PHOTO FRAMES- THE 
ZONE, PRICE CENTER
Highlight your Kodak moments with a personalized 
photo frame! Workshops are free; all supplies and 
materials provided. Space is limited and is first come, 
first served.
2pm
HUNGRY FOR HEALTHY: CHAI SPICE PUMPKIN 
SEED ALMOND MUESLI- THE ZONE, PRICE CENTER
Come join us as we make Pumpkin Bites hosted by the 
Christine McNamara, the Student Health Services 
Registered Dietitian) and get FREE samples! Materials 
and ingredients are provided. Space is limited, first 
come, first served
7pm
BLABBERMOUTH- THE LOFT, PC EAST 
Have a song or story to share? Blabbermouth is a 
monthly event held at The Loft, giving writers of prose, 
poetry, and fiction, as well as musicians and performers 
a place to share their art -- make sure to come out for 
our final open mic of the year! DOORS: 6PM, SHOW: 
7PM FREE
 
SAT 5.07
6am
VOLUNTEER AT TRANSFER TRITON DAY- 
CAMPUS-WIDE
Time to show off your Triton pride! Join Volunteer50 
on Saturday, May 7 in support of a flagship UC San 
Diego tradition: Transfer Triton Day! Volunteers who 
participated in Triton Day on April 9th will receive a 
limited edition Volunteer50 giveaway item.
12pm
UCSD BASEBALL VS. CAL STATE SAN MARCOS- 
TRITON BALLPARK
Watch as UCSD Baseball takes on Cal State San 
Marcos.THU 5.05
10am
MEDITATION- THE ZONE
Join us for a guided meditation where you can: -Gain 
greater mental clarity -Achieve a peaceful state of 
being -Learn techniques to de-stress -Achieve 
harmony amid cognitive dissonance. Workshop led by: 
Vou Athens, a UCSD FitLife Instructor
11:30am
UCSD TABLE TALKERS TOASTMASTERS OPEN 
HOUSE - BARRETT ROOM, REVELLE COLLEGE 
HDH ADMIN BLDG, 4TH FLOOR 
Our Spring 2016 Open House is here! Is English your 
second language or do you just need some help with 
your speaking or leadership skills? If so, Toastmasters 
can help! Come get to meet the current members of 
our club and learn how the Toastmaster program can 
teach you how to communicate with confidence, 
develop your leadership skills, and strengthen your 
resume! And did we mention,we'll be having PIZZA? 
You don't want to miss this! If you can't make it to this 
event, please be our guest at a future meeting!
3pm
BREATHER SERIES: THERAPY FLUFFIES - 
CROSS-CULTURAL CENTER ART SPACE
Take a breather and de-stress by petting and playing 
with some adorable fluffies!This program is in 
collaboration with UCSD's the zone and Love on a 
Leash Organizatio
6:30pm
KEEPIN' IT 100! - HOW TO CAPITALIZE OFF OF 
YOUR STRENGTHS- BEAR ROOM, PRICE CENTER 
WEST, LEVEL 2
Must be a registered student in the iLEAD program to 
attend. Sometimes we spend a lot of energy trying to 
change our weaknesses which often leaves us 
frustrated and disappointed. Have you ever considered 
using that same energy to MAXIMIZE your strengths, 
instead? This workshop will help you identify your 
strengths and provide you with tools to help you make 
the most out of your strongest character traits. Attend 
this workshop to gain confidence and increase 
productivity, while being your authentic self! 
**Participants are STRONGLY encouraged to bring a 
laptop or tablet in order to fully participate in the 
workshop** Presented by Stacia Solomon & Porsia 
Curry, Director & Assistant Director, Black Resource 
Center
10 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 2, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  CLASSIFIEDSCLASSIFIEDS$
Gua rdian Classifieds a re FREE for the UC San Diego community. 
VISIT www.ucsdguardian.org/classifiedscrossword
Across
 1. Resting places
 5. Healthful retreats
 9. Fink
 13. ___ cheese
 14. Casts
 16. Maui dance
 17. Viewed with approval or pleasure
 19. “Iliad” warrior
 20. Two-seater
 21. Back, in a way
 22. Saws with the grain
 23. Goes on and on
 25. Fox relative
 27. Thin wires with tiny tufts of yarn
 31. “Much ___ About Nothing”
 32. Course
 33. Chest material
 37. “___ we forget”
 39. Hot spot
 42. Baby
 43. Song of joy
 45. Achy
 47. Absorbed, as a cost
 48. Short tables accompanying sofas
 52. Disperse
 55. 100 kurus
 56. Farfetched
 57. Sylvester, to Tweety
 59. Big step
 63. ___-bodied
 64. Hardly ordinary
 66. Bottom of the barrel
 67. Slope of loose rock debris
 68. ___ Scotia
 69. Coastal raptors
 70. Aims
 71. Form of matterDown
 1. Doozy
 2. Icelandic epic
 3. Angry outburst
 4. Small amount
 5. Clutter; a total mess
 6. Quote, part 3
 7. “Mi chiamano Mimi, ” e.g.
 8. Product motto
 9. Keen or eager
 10. Papal court
 11. Beth’s preceder
 12. Boito’s Mefistofele, e.g.
 15. Dorm annoyance
 18. Change, chemically
 24. “Buona ___” (Italian greeting)
 26. Parenthesis, essentially
 27. Segmented organ near mouth of 
invertebrates
 28. “I had no ___!”
 29. Ask
 30. Charm
 34. Call
 35. A chip, maybe
 36. Bakery selections
 38. Indiscreet, inconsiderate
 40. “O Sanctissima, ” e.g.
 41. Skilled performers
 44. “___ a chance”
 46. Our “mother”
 49. Unborn embryo
 50. Home of Paris
 51. Large estate or manor
 52. Flat
 53. Wooden pole used in Scottish 
games
 54. ___ wrench
 58. Conflicted
 60. “American ___”
 61. Hawk’s opposite
 62. Final, e.g.
 65. Cabernet, e.g.BIKES
Schwinn Mountain Bike - $150. I am sell -
ing my Schwinn mountain bike in excel -
lent condition. I bought it new for $300 
and have only ridden it about 10 times. It 
includes LED lights in the front and back, 
a very strong lock and a nice hand pump 
as well. I replaced both inner tubes about 
4 months ago. I don’t want to sell it but I 
am. Everything included $150. Listing ID: 
259193038 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Women’s Motiv Backcountry Bike - $215. 
Fixed gear/free wheel. Comes with drop 
bars and a light. Still in terrific condition 
and rides great. Trying to sell ASAP and 
local meet ups only please. Decent shape 
women’s Motiv mountain bike. 18 speed. 
26” tires and equipped with Shimano gear 
shift. Listing ID: 259458258 at ucsdguard -
ian.org/classifieds for more information
Single Speed Bicycle - Road Bike - Fixie Bike 
- $160. Road Bike for sale. Single gear. Looks 
and rides great. Brakes front and back. 
Asking $160 or best offer. Price is nego -
tiable since it could use a new tire on the 
rear. Listing ID: 258651289 at ucsdguardian.
org/classifieds for more information
ELECTRONICS
Sony Digital Voice Recorder - $45. Sony 
SY-ICD-PX333M Sony Digital Flash Voice 
Recorder. I paid $73 and used it twice. 
Intelligent noise cut playback- Recording 
date/time- Playback speed control Scene 
select. Recording is easy. With Voice 
Operated Recording, it starts and stops 
automatically with your voice. Over 
1000 hours of recording time plus Micro 
SD expansion slot for more. Listing ID: 
259193047 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
GoPro Hero - $120. Literally in box brand 
new!!! All I did was open charging cord to 
start messing with it, and I kept it on my 
desk since than. Still have original box, 
cord, dash mounts. Waterproof case and in 
perfect condition! Asking $120 OBO ALSO 
looking for a Nintendo 64 and cash. Listing 
ID: 259458343 at ucsdguardian.org/clas -
sifieds for more information
Wireless Charging Pad for ANY Phone that 
Supports Wireless Charging - $20. Brand 
new! Never been used. Ask for information. 
Listing ID: 259458334 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more information
FURNITURE
Coffee Table w/Matching Side Table - $150. 
Dark wood. Great, quality made pieces. 
Listing ID: 259458373 at ucsdguardian.org/
classifieds for more informationSTAR WARS Lego Alarm Clock - $25. This 
item comes from an adult collector. Made in 
2013, this unique alarm clock is fashioned 
after the Star Wars Lego Stormtrooper. 
This Mini figure stands over 9” . Listing ID: 
259458371 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
Dining Room Table and Chairs - $75. 
Wooden. Decent condition. It is unas -
sembled for easier moving. I have all the 
hardware to reassemble it. Listing ID: 
259458357 at ucsdguardian.org/classifieds 
for more information
t
your vision,
our mission.
madetoorder@ucsd.eduCreate custom apparel to 
promote your student 
organiz ation with  Triton 
Outfitter's Made TO Order
 program!www.ucsdguardian.org/advertising
what do you
need?
let us
help.
price center east, level 3
asgraphicstudio.ucsd.edu 858.246.0972
Dr. Terranova, Dr. Sherman, and Dr. Horne
TORREY PINES
DENTAL ARTS
We welcome UCSD Staff & Students
Richard L Sherman DDS
Steven B. Horne DDS
Scripps/Ximed Medical Center
9850 Genessee Avenue #720
La Jolla, CA 92037
858-453-5525
Info@TorreyPinesDentalArts.com
www.TorreyPinesDentalArts.com• All dental services provided in one 
convenient location
• We accept all UCSD Insurance Plans
• New Patients & Emergencies Welcome
• Easily accessible from Campus -
right across from the UCSD baseball 
field; on the UCSD Bus Line.
treasures
vintage
fashion
UCSD International Center • Tuesday -  Friday, 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m.
(858) 534-1124 • shopfic@ucsd.edu
@Friends_Resale_ShopSPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 2, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  11
Saturday marked the end 
of the regular season for the 
UCSD men’s tennis team as 
it battled Claremont-Mudd 
Scripps. However, it did not 
have its best outing and, as 
a result, took a 7–2 defeat 
against the second-ranked 
team in Division III at the La 
Jolla Beach & Tennis Club.
UCSD ended with an 
overall regular season record 
of 13–9. 
At the No. 5 spot, senior Horea Porutiu gave the Tritons 
their first victory of the day 
with his win in straight sets 
against freshman Avinash 
Vemuri, 6–3 and 6–4.  
In the third spot, sophomore 
Justin Zhang defeated junior 
Daniel Morkovine to give the 
Tritons one of two victories 
in singles play. The match was 
highly contested, as Zhang lost 
the first set 7–5, but responded 
with a 6–0 win in the second 
set. A tiebreaker was needed 
to settled the match and Zhang 
slightly edged Morkovine for 
the win at the end, 15–13.  However, No. 1 sophomore 
Eric Tseng lost in a close match 
against senior Skyler Butts, 7–6 
and 7–5.  
UCSD will now have 
its sights set on the NCAA 
Championships, since the 
Tritons will most likely earn a 
their way into the tournament 
as a top-three team in the 
West Region. The Tritons 
await their fate until selections 
are officially announced on 
Tuesday, May 3. 
If you or a friend ha ve been ac cused o f 
violating a Student Condu ct or Aca demic 
Integrity Policy then  you have the
 RIGHT
 to 
be represen ted by a Student Advocate!GOT A VIO LATION?
GET INFORM ATION.
Contact  us at asa dvo cac y@ucsd.edu or
visit  us at Pric e Center East, Leve l 4asad vo cac y@ucs d.ed u
AS O FF ICE  O F
STUDE NT ADVOCAC Y
asad vo cac y@ucs d.ed u
AS O FF ICE  O F
STUDE NT ADVOCAC Y
asad vo cac y@ucs d.ed u
AS O FF ICE  O F
STUDE NT ADVOCAC Y
asad vo cac y@ucs d.ed u
AS O FF ICE  O F
STUDE NT ADVOCAC Y
asad vo cac y@ucs d.ed u
AS O FF ICE  O F
STUDE NT ADVOCAC Y
asad vo cac y@ucs d.ed u
AS O FF ICE  O F
STUDE NT ADVOCAC Y
asad vo cac y@ucs d.ed u
AS O FF ICE  O F
STUDE NT ADVOCAC Y
asad vo cac y@ucs d.ed u
AS O FF ICE  O F
STUDE NT ADVOCAC Y
asad vo cac y@ucs d.ed u
AS O FF ICE  O FTRITON
PANTRYFOOD
location: Original Student Center
email: foodpantry@ucsd.edu
phone: (858) 534-5694The mission of the Triton Food Pantry is to provide 
a discreet service to UCSD students in need of 
food. Our goals are to ensure that every student 
has enough energy to get through the day and that 
no student needs to give up a single meal for any 
reason. We aim to build a network of resources and 
awareness about food insecurity.
Hours subject to change in future quarters.Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri
10am–12pm9:30am–
2:30pm9:30am–
2:30pm10am–12pm 10am–12pmSPRING HOURS OF OPERATION:“To start off, we were pretty fired up to bounce back from that last game, ” White commented. 
“ And then we died off a little bit. Then [junior outfielder] Jack Larsen came in and he was like 
‘Listen guys, this is our season. We need to battle. Let’s bounce back. ’ Everyone responded really 
well and looked ahead from there. ”
Game two started with the Pioneers scoring twice in the top of the first, UCSD responded 
with three runs in the bottom of the first. Larsen started the rally with a two-out double and 
was subsequently brought home by junior outfielder Christian Leung’s single. UCSD rotated 
through its lineup as it continued to provide hits, singling four times to plate Leung and Flatt.
The Tritons scored another run in the bottom of the second when Larsen doubled again to 
score senior outfielder Gradeigh Sanchez. However, Cal State East Bay countered with a run of 
its own in the third inning to keep it a one-run game. 
The Pioneers got ahead of the Tritons in the critical sixth and seventh innings; with runners 
on first and third in the sixth, junior outfielder Kris Bartlett grounded into a double play and 
brought Chris Porter home to tie the game. During the seventh inning, Cal State East Bay took 
a 6–4 lead following another ground out and a single, which went right through junior third 
baseman JD Hearn’s glove. 
UCSD’s offense resurfaced in the eighth inning to close the gap, with Hearn singling on a 
1–2 count and plating Howsley. 
Through patience and a sacrifice bunt, the Tritons loaded the bases with one out and literally walked away with the win, despite being down by a run in the ninth. The Pioneers proceeded to 
walk senior first baseman Zack Friedman and White, bringing home the tying runner, redshirt 
junior outfielder Brandon Shirley, and the winning runner, sophomore infielder Tyler Plantier, 
respectively. 
“Tim is a tough kid, ” Newman said. “He understands what we do offensively, really digs in 
and buys into the approach. We even felt comfortable putting him in the suicide squeeze right 
there at the end. He just stuck with his working. Gave us another good at bat and was able to 
walk to win the game. ”
Freshman relieving pitcher Erik Amundson got the win and moved to 2–1 after not allowing 
a single hit. In the eighth and ninth, Pioneers junior pitcher Joshua Kubiske got the loss after 
giving up a pair of hits, walks and runs. 
However, UCSD’s offense was unable to capitalize on having runners in scoring position in 
several instances. Even with the win, the team pulled together sixteen hits and left ten runners 
on base. 
The Tritons will look to steal the series and maintain their second-place ranking in CCAA 
Sunday afternoon in another doubleheader against Cal State East Bay. Cal State San Bernardino 
follows closely at third place in the southern division with 15–18 in CCAA after losing a 
doubleheader against Cal Poly Pomona.To u g h  Tr i t o n s  C o m e  B a ck  i n  t h e  N i n t h  W i t h  a  B a s e s  L o a d e d  Wa l k  t o  S t e a l  G a m e  Tw o  Fro m  t h e  P i o n e e rs   
▶ BASEBALL,  from page 12
readers can contact
daniel  hernandez    dah043@ucsd.edu Triton Tennis Team Falls to No.2 Ranked Claremont-Mudd Scripps 
Tritons look to perform well at the NCAA Championships where 
they will be ranked as one of the top teams in the West Region.  
BY  d a n i e l  h e r n a n d e z
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE /UCSD GUARDIANM. TENNISAnthony  Tzeng   Tritons  split  two 
over  the 
weekend
UCSD faces Cal State San Marcos 
next for a four game series before 
the CCAA Tournament.Written by Anthony Tzeng
UCSD baseball battled Cal State East 
Bay in a doubleheader Saturday 
afternoon and evening as part of a 
four-game series. The Tritons, now 28–16 
overall and 18–14 in California Collegiate 
Athletic Association, will finish their 
run in CCAA North Division after this 
series. UCSD currently sits in second 
place in the Southern Division whereas 
the Pioneers, 26–16 overall and 17–14 
in CCAA, are third in the North. 
The tough matchup concluded in the 
Tritons losing game one 2–5 and 
rallying to win game two 7–6. 
Game One —
 Cal State East Bay 5, UCSD 2
UCSD was unable to hold Cal State 
East Bay back after reaching a 2–0 lead. 
Tritons’ rising star freshman pitcher 
Kyle Mora, however, exhibited solid 
pitching for 5.1 innings, only allowing 
one run on one hit while striking out 
four batters. Nonetheless, it was the 
relieving pitchers that faulted and gave 
Cal State East Bay a comeback win. 
The Tritons’ two runs came during 
the fourth inning when redshirt 
sophomore second baseman Tim White 
tripled to right center, bringing in junior 
shortstop Tyler Howsley and redshirt 
sophomore first baseman Justin Flatt. From 
then on, UCSD’s offense fell silent and was 
shut down by Cal State East Bay’s sophomore 
pitcher Alex Vesia. 
The Pioneers were able to capitalize on 
an error committed in the fifth inning. Mora 
attempted to pick off a runner at first base, but 
instead threw the ball away, bringing home senior 
outfielder Myles Babitt from third and making the 
score 2–1 Tritons. 
UCSD relieving pitchers combined to give up four runs 
in the ninth inning and helped Cal State East Bay take game 
one 5–2. Redshirt senior pitcher Alon Leichman took the loss 
by allowing two runs on four hits; Vesia managed to get the win 
through eight frames, two earned runs on seven hits. 
“The game came down to three errors on our part and leaving a 
guy on third base three times with less than two outs, ” UCSD head coach 
Eric Newman told UCSD Athletics. “We had a chance to push the lead out 
of them but we never did. Give [East Bay] credit. They want to win and they’re 
trying to... get into the post-season. I expect every game to be well played and 
hard fought. ”
Game Two — UCSD 7, Cal State East Bay 6
However, the Tritons’ offense bounced back and was able to get into an early lead in game 
two. The team fought especially hard as the athletes tried to maintain their one-run lead over the 
Pioneers the majority of the game. SPORTSCONTACT THE EDITORS
DEV JAIN & MARCUS THUILLIER
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | MONDAY , MAY 2, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  
See BASEBALL , page 11
week  in
summar y
BASEBALL
Cal State East BayUCSD2  7
5  6
M. TENNIS
Claremont-Mudd-ScrippsUCSD2
7PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE /UCSD GUARDIAN
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE /UCSD GUARDIAN
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE /UCSD GUARDIANSoftball 
Track & Field 
M.Tennis
W.Tennis
BaseballUPCOMING
UCSD 
GAMESVS TBD
AT CCAA Championships
VS Sonoma State
VS Pepperdine 
VS Villanova5/5
5/5
5/6
5/6
5/6