VOLUME 49, ISSUE 25  TUESDAY , JANUARY 19, 2016 WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
THE STORM HAS 
ARRIVED
AS WE PREPARE FOR THE 
GREAT FLOOD-- WAIT, THAT 
WAS NOAH. GET READY FOR 
MORE RAIN THANKS TO THE 
EL NINO PHENOMENON. BE 
PREPARED AND READ UP ON 
THIS WET WEATHER TREND .
LOTTER Y SCAM
WINNING STREAK A T 6THE UNAMERICAN DREAM
READY FOR  SPIRIT  NIGHTOPINION,  P age   4
SPORTS,  P age  12
TUESDAY  
H 62 L 53WEDNESDAY  
H 62 L 48
THURSDAY  
H 66 L 48FRIDAY  
H 63 L 51
FORECAST
VERBATIM
GAZE OFF INTO THE SUNSET 
AS GREEN DOLLAR SIGNS 
FLASH THROUGH YOUR EYES 
AND JOYFULLY CLUTCH 
YOUR PLASTIC CREDIT 
CARD. REMEMBER, MONEY 
IS HAPPINESS. AND DON’T 
FORGET THAT THE HELPFUL 
HOW-TO GURU GOT YOU 
HERE, AND MAYBE CONSIDER 
SENDING A CHECK THIS WAY...”
- HOW-TO GURU
OPINION , PAGE 4
INSIDE
BRAIN MONITORS  ........... 2
QUICK TAKES  .................. 4
DIGITAL MEDIA LAB  ........ 8
CROSSWORD/SUDOKU  ..10
MEN’S BASKETBALL  .....12“FEA TURES,  P AGE 6
PHOTO BY CHRISTIAN DUARTE / GUARDIAN
A new liver transplantation 
partnership, created by UCSD 
Health and Sharp HealthCare, went 
into effect on Jan. 7. The program 
combines a university-affiliated 
health system with what Sharp 
calls “not-for-profit” health care, 
aiming to improve care and expand 
resources for liver care patients in 
San Diego. 
Under the new program, patients 
undergo surgery at UCSD Health and 
receive their additional care at Sharp. 
Jackie Carr, the Assistant Executive 
Director of Communications and 
Media Relations at UCSD Health, told the UCSD Guardian that the 
partnership maximizes the clinical 
experience at a more cost-effective 
level than in previous years. 
“The benefit of this joint 
partnership is that the two hospitals 
are cooperating to offer advanced 
liver transplantation care, ” Carr 
said. “Instead of Sharp starting its 
own liver transplant program, and 
duplicating services, it will refer 
patients to UCSD for surgery, 
the region’s only academic health 
system. Costs are kept down while 
patients receive lifesaving care from 
an experienced surgery and critical 
care team. ”
Dan Gross, executive vice 
president of hospital operations at 
Sharp HealthCare, described his enthusiasm for how the program 
streamlines liver care in San Diego.
“We at Sharp HealthCare are 
excited about the establishment of 
the joint liver transplant program 
with UCSD Health, ” Gross said in 
a press release by UCSD Health. 
“Preventing program duplication 
while meeting community health 
care needs and driving down 
healthcare costs is rewarding. ”
Between July 2012 and 
June 2013, UCSD Health’s liver 
transplant program maintained a 
one-year survival rate of 95 percent, 
surpassing similar programs in 
Southern California, including 
Cedars-Sinai and Scripps, which University Receives Record 
Number of  Applicants
UCSD received a record number of 102,692 
undergraduate applications for the 2016–2017 
academic year. About 8.9 percent more students 
applied than last year, making UCSD the second among UC 
campuses, behind UCLA and ahead of UC Berkeley. 
     Both the freshman and transfer applicant pools were the 
largest in UCSD history, with 84,198 freshmen applicants 
and 18,474 transfer applicants, 7.9 percent and 14.1 percent 
more than the previous year’s applicant pools, respectively.
UCSD Chancellor Pradeep Khosla stated that he believes the 
increase demonstrates that UCSD is a top university given 
its many opportunities and credible education. 
     “We are pleased to yet again attract a talented and diverse 
applicant pool, ” Khosla told UCSD News Center. “Our 
growing number of applicants every year is testament to 
UC San Diego’s stellar reputation for having outstanding 
academic programs, experiential learning opportunities and 
faculty of the highest caliber. ”
      Nearly half of the applications came from students living 
in two areas: Los Angeles, with 27,913 applicants, and San 
Francisco, with 13,698. Furthermore, over 85 percent of 
the university’s transfer applicants are students attending 
community colleges in California.
       UCSD’s Vice Chancellor of Student Affairs Juan Gonzalez 
expressed his enthusiasm for the increase in transfer student applicants, deeming them critical to UCSD’s success.
   “UC San Diego welcomes community college transfer 
students, ” Gonzalez told UCSD News Center. “We are 
pleased a record number of transfer students, who had 
more time to file their applications this year, applied to our 
campus. Transfer students are vital members of the UC San 
Diego community. ”
   Among freshmen applicants, the most popular majors 
included social sciences, engineering and biology — a trend 
consistent with recent years. As for prospective transfer 
students, half applied as social science majors, followed 
by engineering and science majors. The average freshman 
applicant had a 3.81 GPA and an average SAT score of 1856, 
while the average transfer applicant had a 3.36 GPA.
    Furthermore, the campus saw a rise in Latino/Mexican-
American and African-American freshmen applicants by 
10.1 percent and 9.2 percent, respectively. The transfer 
student applicant pool saw a similar increase, with 33.1 
percent more African-American applicants, 23.5 percent 
more Native American applicants and 22.7 percent more 
Latino/Mexican-American applicants. 
   The UC system as a whole also received a record number 
of undergraduate applicants for the 12th straight year. Over 
206,000 students applied to UC campuses, 6.4 percent more 
than last year.  B Y  Marcus  Thuillier       Contributing WriterTown 
Approves 
Barriers to 
Reduce OdorsLA JOLLA UCSD
Steve Haskins, the Town 
Council president, ensured 
that the plastic cylinders will 
not harm the local sea lions.
B Y  Lisa  Chik
Staff Writer
See LIVER , page 3The La Jolla Town Council 
voted in unanimous support of 
using rotating, plastic cylinders 
as a remedy for the pervasive sea 
lion population and the stench that 
comes with its poop. The La Jolla 
Coastal Committee presented the 
barrier solution at a forum on Jan. 12 
at the La Jolla Community Center.
Once the barrier project is 
approved by the California Coastal 
Commission, the city has full 
authority to install it under the 
Marine Mammal Protection Act.
The proposed Marine Mammal 
Safety Barrier consists of two to three 
levels of plastic cylinders fixed on 
stainless steel cables suspended from 
solid, stainless steel posts drilled 
in the ground close to the water; 
this would prevent the animals from 
climbing up the rocks near people 
and establishments because they 
would not be able to get traction to 
climb over the barriers. 
According to KPBS, residents 
say the issue arose three years ago 
when a wooden fence, installed 
along the cliffs, eliminated human 
interruption while birds and sea 
lions poop on the beach, creating 
an odor that La Jolla residents claim 
has intensified over the years.
“The smell here in La Jolla makes 
it very difficult for anyone of us who 
live here to put up with it, and it 
makes it very difficult for tourists to 
come here, ” La Jolla resident Barry 
Jadgoda told CBS8. “It hurts the 
business, it hurts the community 
and it hurts the individuals. ”
The Coastal Committee 
considered other solutions, 
including physical removal of the 
animals with harassment techniques 
approved by the National Oceanic 
and Atmospheric Administration 
such as ultrasonic fences, electrical 
dispersal, visual deterrents and 
audio deterrents — many of which 
would require persistent long-term 
efforts or may pose dangers to either 
the animals, humans or land.
President of La Jolla Town 
Council and UCSD alumnus Steve 
Haskins, while uneased by the 
stench, assured the UCSD Guardian 
that the use of the method would 
not risk the animals’ safety.
“[This method] is the least 
objectionable [as it does] no harm 
to the animals, ” Haskins told the 
Guardian. “[It will] keep humans 
and sea lions separated [while] 
avoiding human harassment of the 
sea lions. ”
The parts necessary for the 
barrier project are available in the 
marine industry without having UCSD Creates Joint Liver Transplant Program
The partnership with Sharp HealthCare aims to improve liver care and decrease its costs.UCSD
B Y  Julie  Yip
News Editorial Assistant
See SEA LIONS , page 3Marcus Thuillier   mthuilli@ucsd.edureaders can contact2 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , JANUARY 19, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG N EWS
CalCopyUCSD@gmail .com
Lowest
Prices POSTER PRINTINGPRINT/C OPY FILES
MAIL • USPS • F edExFastest
ServiceReaders printed in 1 day.Cal Copy UCSD Course Readers
SAME DAY COLOR POSTER PRINTING!
MORE INFO AT SOVAC.UCSD.EDU/REGISTER
REGISTER ONLINE AT AS.UCSD.EDU/SAFERIDESREGISTRATION
FOR this quarter
IS NOW OPEN!
A.S. Safe Rides allows 
registered undergraduate 
students to get 3 FREE rides 
per quarter. 
Students must register at 
least 24 hours prior to their 
first ride. 
Contact A.s. safe rides: (619) 564 - 7998The UCSD Guardian is published Mondays and Thursdays 
during the academic year by UCSD students and for the 
UCSD community. Reproduction of this newspaper in any 
form, whether in whole or in part, without permission is strictly 
prohibited. © 2014, all rights reserved. The UCSD Guardian is 
not responsible for the return of unsolicited manuscripts or art. 
The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the 
opinions of the UCSD Guardian, the University of California 
or Associated Students. The UCSD Guardian is funded by 
advertising. “Are you playing music on my acount? Let me 
go into private session. Spotify is kind of a big deal” — Jose.
General Editorial:  
editor@ucsdguardian.org
News: news@ucsdguardian.org
Opinion: opinion@ucsdguardian.org
Sports: sports@ucsdguardian.org
Features: features@ucsdguardian.org
Lifestyle: lifestyle@ucsdguardian.org
A&E: entertainment@ucsdguardian.org 
Photo: photo@ucsdguardian.org
Design: design@ucsdguardian.org
Art: art@ucsdguardian.org
Advertising: 858-534-3467
ads@ucsdguardian.org
Fax: 858-534-7035Business Manager
Jennifer Mancano  
Advertising Director  
Myrah Jaffer
Marketing Co-Directors
Peter McInnis, Haley Asturias
Training and Development Manager
Cedric Hyon
Advertising Design  
Alfredo H. Vilano, Jr.
A.S. Graphic Studio  Vincent Pham
Tina Butoiu
Kriti Sarin
Jacky To
Cassia Pollock 
Marcus Thuillier
Allison Kubo
Karly Nisson
Brittney Lu
Olga Golubkova
Jonathan Gao
Megan Lee
Joselynn Ordaz
Sherman Aline
Christina Carlson
Sophia Huang
Jennifer Grundman
Sage Schubert ChristianEditor in Chief
Managing Editor
News Editor
 
Associate News Editor
 
Opinion Editor
Sports Editor
Features Editor
A&E Editor
Lifestyle Editors
Photo Editor
Associate Photo Editor
Design Editor
Associate Design Editor
Art Editors
Copy Editor
Associate Copy Editor
Page Layout
Joselynn Ordaz, Sherman Aline, Allison Kubo
Copy Reader
Heejung Lim, Alicia Ho, Lisa Chik
Editorial Assistants
Christian Duarte, Dev Jain, Julie Yip,  
Naftali Burakovsky, Sam VelazquezA team of bioengineers and 
cognitive scientists led by UCSD 
alumni recently developed the first 
ever portable electroencephalography 
monitor headset and analytical 
software system, which will be 
accessible in the future outside of the 
lab setting. 
The EEG is a medical test used to 
diagnose epilepsy, sleep disorders, 
coma and other focal brain disorders 
or injuries. It functions by using 
sensors in the form of electrodes 
to detect spontaneous electrical 
impulses in the brain; it can show 
the presence of diseases and injuries, 
identifying abnormalities in the 
EEG readings by comparing those 
conditions to their average baselines. 
UCSD professor of bioengineering 
and Co-Director of the Institute 
for Neural Computation Gert 
Cauwenberghs is one of the principal 
investigators on the project. He 
described to the UCSD Guardian the 
“it factor” for this recently developed 
system that makes the device unique.
“Brain imaging typically relies on 
bulky and expensive instruments, 
such as magnetic resonance or 
positron emission tomography 
scanners, ” Cauwenberghs explained. 
“This work originating from 
research in the Institute for Neural 
Computation and the department 
of bioengineering in the Jacobs School of Engineering is the first to 
provide real-time, high-resolution 
imaging of brain electrical activity 
using unobtrusive, dry-electrode 
electroencephalography. ”
Cauwenberghs also told the 
Guardian how this system is a  
significant step for brain monitoring 
and the applications for the device 
are broad. 
“Interpreting these dynamic 
images of brain activity help 
neurologists in identifying and 
monitoring disorders of the brain such 
as Parkinson’s, epilepsy, Alzheimer’s 
etc., ” Dr. Cauwenberghs elaborated. 
“The quick setup of the EEG headset 
is also useful in ambulatory settings 
by allowing the caregiver for prompt 
on-site diagnosis of critical medical 
conditions that call for immediate 
clinical intervention, such as possible 
traumatic brain injury after a head 
impact and suspected stroke. ”
The newly developed system 
is comprised of a 64-channel dry-
electrode wearable EEG headset 
making the system applicable in the 
real-world; dry sensors are easier 
to apply than wet sensors and can 
simultaneously provide data on 
the brain’s high-density electrical 
impulses. EEGs tend to use wet 
sensors to detect spontaneous 
electrical impulses in the brain, 
both while an individual is awake or 
asleep.
“The Cognionics EEG headset 
operates without wires, so it permits the subject to roam around freely, ” 
Cauwenberghs further elaborated on 
the headset. “ And the dry electrodes 
don’t require any gel or other messy 
or abrasive skin preparation, so they 
avoid discomfort to the user and 
long preparation times of typical 
wired and gel-based commercial 
EEG systems. ”
The headset was developed by co-
lead researcher and chief technology 
officer Mike Yu Chi of Cognionics, 
Inc. Chi, a Jacobs School alumnus 
and co-founder of Cognionics, 
spearheaded the headset project and 
led the team that developed it. 
The EEG headset is an octopus-
like shaped device with multiple 
elastic arms and the dry sensors 
are placed at the end of each arm 
and designed to make optimal 
contact with the scalp. These sensors 
designed to work on hair are made 
from silver and carbon with a silver, 
silver-chloride coating being the 
crucial material needed to make sure 
that the sensors conduct high quality 
signals while remaining durable 
and flexible. Bare skin sensors are 
comprised of a hydrogel encased 
inside a conductive membrane with 
an amplifier equipped to help boost 
signal quality and shield the sensors 
from other electrical interference. 
The headset works optimally 
if the subject at hand is stationary, 
but the researchers and developers 
at Cognionics are trying to improve 
the its performance so that it functions properly while the subject 
is engaged in a more strenuous 
activity than walking. 
Along with the transportable 
EEG headset, the system also runs 
on a sophisticated software which 
has been coded to work on data 
interpretation of the data obtained 
through the headset. This software 
was developed by a team led by 
another UCSD alumnus and lead 
author Tim Mullen, who is currently 
the chief executive officer of the 
startup he cofounded that focuses 
on analytics, Qusp. Mullen and his 
team developed the software with 
an algorithm so that the EEG data 
from the headset will be separated 
and distinguishable from the other 
electrical noise that would otherwise 
tamper the EEG data, such as 
walking or talking.  
“Our vision at Qusp is to embed 
advanced neurotechnology into 
everyday life, ” Mullen told the UCSD 
Guardian. “We envision a future 
where technology for brain and body 
sensing is as pervasive and useful as 
smart phones are today. Wearable, 
mobile EEG hardware, such as the 
Cognionics system, are an important 
step towards that future… We hope to 
empower developers to rapidly create 
brain- and body-aware applications 
transforming not only medicine and 
health, but also the way we work, 
play, communicate and learn. ”SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
Researchers Develop Portable Brain Monitor Technology
B Y  GURKIRA T SINGH
CONTRIBUTING WRITER
Gurkira t Singh   gsingh@ucsd.edu The new device will allow physicians to monitor neurological diseases in real-time, at no cost to the user’s comfort. A COUPLE OF DERPS By Elyse Yang
had survival rates of 90 and 89 
percent, respectively. 
Carr also maintained that UCSD 
Health is unique for its deceased or 
living donor options and that it is 
the only local hospital to provide 
living donor transplants.  
In addition, the clinical 
collaboration includes Southern 
California GI and Liver Centers, a 
clinic that specializes in what Tarek 
Hassanein of Southern California 
GI and Liver Centers, and professor 
of medicine at UCSD’s School of 
Medicine, describes as “the whole 
spectrum of liver disease. ” He also 
explained to the Guardian how 
this will allow the liver transplant 
program to extend beyond San 
Diego, estimating an extra 10 to 
20 transplants may be performed 
per year. 
“[The partnership] entails 
coordinating care between the 
three different groups, blending the 
expertise of each of the groups to the 
best of the others, ” Hassanein said. “This allows us to reach the patients 
deep within the community of 
Southern California because we have 
offices in Riverside County, Palm 
Springs, Orange County, Imperial 
Valley, San Diego, Chula Vista and 
Coronado … I would imagine there 
would be access to thousands of 
patients under the program of those 
few that will need transplants. ” 
According to Carr, an 
overwhelming number of people 
are in need of organ transplants 
but may not be fortunate enough to 
receive them. 
“More than 120,000 people 
nationally are waiting for an organ, ” 
Carr said. “Due to the shortage 
of donated organs, only a small 
percentage of those waiting actually 
receive their transplants. Sadly, many 
die waiting on the transplant list. 
Some organs may be transplanted 
from a living related donor, but 
the majority of transplants are 
dependent upon the generosity of 
families who donate the organs and 
tissues of their deceased, loved ones. ”  
An individual is added to the organ transplant waiting list every 
10 minutes, with an average of 
22 patients dying each day due to 
limited organ donors, according to 
the U.S. Department of Health and 
Human Services.
To reach the UCSD population, 
A.S. Associate Vice President of 
Local Affairs Noah Lightman 
suggested instituting on-campus 
programs to bolster student 
knowledge of organ donations.  
“I think that the best way to 
educate students is through 
programming of some sort, ” 
Lightman told the Guardian. “Since 
UCSD does have a large commuter 
population that drives, one 
suggestion that I would recommend 
is making organ donation 
information as part of the process 
for buying a parking permit. This 
will help the school keep records of 
how many organ donors it has and 
inform students on the issue. ”
Sharp HealthCare did not 
respond by press time. N EWS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , JANUARY 19, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 3
Social
PowerHourSocialPowerHour
FREE GAMES, MUSIC, AND FOOD!
FREE GAMES, MUSIC, AND FOOD!
FIRST COME,  FIRST SERVEd
FIRST COME, FIRST SERVEd
OTHER DATES
WHEN AND WHE REWHEN AND WHERE
PC COMMUTER
LOUNGE2PMJAN. 21  
FEB. 4 & 18
MAR. 3DATEDATE
LIGHTS & SIRENSLights and Sirens is compiled from the 
Police Crime Log at police.ucsd.edu.
Friday, Jan. 8th
10:15 a.m. Petty Theft
Report of cell phone stolen from 
victim’s backpack, victim was able 
to track cell phone which assisted 
officers in finding suspect. 
Closed by Citation, Adult & Stay 
Away Order Issued.
Saturday, Jan. 9th
3:49 a.m. Burglary
Report of male who opened 
window but then was able to open 
door. Checks OK.
3:49 p.m. Hazard Situation
Group of 10 skateboarders riding 
down the hill to Blacks Beach. 
Unfounded.
Sunday, Jan. 10th
12:52 a.m. Alcohol Contact
Officer observed young adult female 
crossing intersection against do not 
walk pedestrian signal, female was 
determined to be a minor and in 
violation of consuming alcohol as 
well as being in possession of under 
28.5 grams of marijuana. 
Closed By Citation, Adult.
Monday, Jan. 11th
10:50 a.m. Non-Injury Accident
UC Shuttle Bus vs. private vehicle. 
Report Taken.
9:50 - 10:50 a.m. Grand Theft
Report of stolen wallet, loss 
$1404.00. Report Taken.
Tuesday, Jan. 12th
11:38 a.m. Medical Aid
Per San Diego Fire Department, 
male student disoriented and not 
making sense. Service Provided.12:42 p.m. Information
Elderly male tripped and fell. 
Referred To Other agency.
5:41 p.m. Citizen Contact
Report of unknown non-affiliate 
male who entered through screen 
door and slept on couch last night, 
stated he was waiting for a girl and 
left when asked to by residents. 
Report Taken.
Wednesday, Jan. 13th
3:14 p.m. Citizen Contact
Report of identity theft, another 
person filed 2014 taxes under 
victim’s name. Report Taken.
6:29 p.m. Citizen Contact
Report of young adult male 
student who started being verbally 
aggressive and making physical 
threats toward reporting party after 
she rejected his attempt to start a 
conversation with her. 
Report Taken.
10:57 p.m. Disturbance — Argument
Male taking pictures of patients, 
refuses to leave and is being 
belligerent. Field Interview.
Thursday, Jan. 14th
6:42 a.m. Assisting Other Agency
CHP in foot pursuit with subject. 
Service Provided.
11:22 a.m. Welfare Check
Disorderly conduct; alcohol, subject 
disrupting a class. 
Closed By Adult Arrest.
11:35 a.m. Welfare Check
Per custodian, female on ground 
crying in pain. Service Provided.
— MING-RAY LIAO
Staff WriterOne Person Applies for an Organ Transplant Every 10 Minutes
▶ LIVER,  from page 1
Julie Yip   jlyip@ucsd.edureaders can contactto specially order them, and the 
marine-grade materials ensure 
durability. According to the Coastal 
Committee’s presentation, barriers 
are the best option as a low-cost, 
low-tech and safe approach.
A one-way safety release option 
enables the soft barriers to open in 
the unlikely event that a sea lion 
climbs over the barrier, according to 
the presentation.
Barriers are expected to be placed 
at the large, flat shelf east of the Cove 
where sea lions have been known to gather. At approximately 4.3 feet in 
height, the barriers can be painted to 
match the colors of the rocks, offering 
a low-profile solution.
Additionally, the Children’s 
Pool Rope Barrier, approved by the 
California Coastal Commission in 
2014, which was also intended to 
separate humans from oceanic wild 
animals, serves as a precedent for 
the sea lion barrier. 
Currently, La Jolla performs a 
spraying regimen using a bioactive 
product on the bluffs three times 
monthly, which only removes the stench for a few days at a time. 
The process is high-maintenance 
in manual labor, subject to weather 
conditions and costs $7,200 per 
month while the one-time cost of the 
barriers is estimated to be $14,000.
The La Jolla Town Council 
encourages community advisory 
groups to hold hearings on the 
proposed solution and to express 
their support to elected officials of 
the City of San Diego.La Jolla Currently Spends $7,200 Per Month on Spraying Regimen
▶ SEA LIONS,  from page 1
lisa chik   lchik@ucsd.edureaders can contact4 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , JANUARY 19, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG OPINION
See POWERBALL, page 5Powerball may hold the highest lottery total of  all 
time at $1.5 billion, but its tendency to manipulate 
people is anything but promising.
BY EMILY COLLINS // CONTRIBUTING WRITER
ILLUSTRA TION   B Y  ALEX LIANGExploiting the
american dream
Imagine a quick stop for gas after a long, stressful day. This 
leads you to make a decision on a whim to buy a lottery ticket, 
and a few days later that whim wins you $1.5 billion. It sounds 
almost too good to be true. The Powerball is often depicted 
as a spectacular way to achieve the American dream, but it 
also has the potential to manipulate and deceive people. By 
enhancing images of people’s goals and idealizing their visions 
of success, the lottery convinces most people that they have a 
chance at winning, however unlikely. The unrealistic nature 
of winning the lottery and living a luxurious life thus exploits 
not only college students, but people from impoverished 
backgrounds as well. 
The Powerball payout currently rests at an astonishing 
$1.5 billion, the largest jackpot lottery in history. According to 
The New Y ork Times, the chance of winning the Powerball is 
currently one in 292.2 million. Nevertheless, advertisements 
for the Powerball have consistently relied on the concepts 
surrounding “the American dream, ” which superficially 
involve the possibility of anyone, no matter his or her 
background, being able to obtain limitless riches, success and luxuries. In doing so, the advertisements depend upon 
exaggerated and rather unrealistic common dreams in order 
to guarantee that people will be inclined to purchase tickets, 
despite a low chance of winning.
By relying on common images of success, the Powerball 
takes advantage of people who are working toward becoming 
successful in future careers, such as college students like 
ourselves. Buying a lottery ticket upon turning age 18 isn’t 
simply an insignificant rite of passage. According to the 
Journal of Gambling Studies, there is “a significant increase 
of young people gambling, particularly in lotteries. ” With 
the current generation’s get-rich-quick attitude, the vision 
of a future without student debt and with enough money 
to purchase countless luxuries lures college students into 
purchasing lottery tickets. In addition to this alarming 
attitude, The Review of Economics and Statistics published 
that a high proportion of lottery winners go bankrupt within 
five years. Combine the likelihood of lottery winners being 
unable to manage their winnings alongside the typical 
inexperience that college students have with managing large How-To 
Guru: 
From Rags 
to Riches
Now that the rain has dried up 
and the sun has come back out 
from under its blanket of clouds, 
it’s time to emerge and refresh our 
brains with rational, intelligent 
thinking. Therefore, this week the 
Guru will tell you, dear reader, how 
to win the lottery!
Y es, lottery tickets are the new 
trend within our sunny campus. The 
Powerball was recently raised to an 
eye-popping $1.5 billion which, by 
my calculations, are almost enough to 
pay for next year’s tuition.
The trick to winning this large 
sum is to simply pick lucky numbers 
like your birthday, your cat’s birthday, 
your social security number, or any 
number you find on the street (I 
personally use the numbers 4, 8, 15, 
16, 23, 42 for all my lotto drawings). 
Of course, there’s no guarantee that 
your numbers are correct, so you 
should buy as many lotto tickets as 
you can in order in increase your 
chances. Sell everything you have on 
library walk or offer your services as 
a professional gambler. Any of these 
will help you earn money and earn 
that sweet $1.5 billion paycheck.
Of course, winning the lottery 
is only half the challenge. The other 
half is making sure your money is 
kept safe and secure, and out of the 
hands of those silly charities who 
will undoubtedly come to your door 
asking for money in the name of 
“homelessness, ” “hunger, ” or some 
other silly cause. My advice is to 
rig your doorbell up to a hidden 
trapdoor that safely deposits charity 
organizers back onto the street. Is this 
legal? Of course not, but money talks 
— you and your affluenza are above 
the law now! Besides, there’s no bail 
you can’t afford.
Speaking of silly laws, did you 
know that nearly half of your 
rightfully-earned money will go 
to Uncle Sam? Thankfully, the 
Guru has some clever ways to get 
around paying your taxes that the 
government steals from you every 
April. It’s best to claim you lost all 
the money in a supposedly ‘failing’ 
business and then take an abrupt 
vacation. Feel free to hide your 
money in a foreign country or, better 
yet, simply immigrate to a more 
friendly and welcoming country. 
Heck, buy yourself a private island 
and start your own superior mini-
country. Once your wealth is safe and 
secure, you’re free to spend it in peace 
on whatever your heart desires.
They say money can’t buy love, 
but once you win the lottery you’ll 
fall asleep lovingly embracing sacks 
of silky dollar bills. No human being 
or affectionate golddigger will ever 
understand you as much as money. 
The jackpot is the only celestial being 
wise enough to go that extra mile 
and break the bank — just for you. 
Gaze off into the sunset as green 
dollar signs flash through your eyes 
and joyfully clutch your plastic credit 
card. Remember, money is happiness.
And don’t forget that the helpful 
How-To Guru got you here, and 
maybe consider sending a check 
this way for my troubles. After 
all, time is money, and you’ve just 
spent 75 seconds reading this. 
What are you waiting for? Go out 
and start winning!OPINIONCONTACT THE EDITOR
CASSIA POLLOCK
opinion@ucsdguardian.org
By Issuing Executive Order on Gun Control, Obama 
Overreaches His Power, Increases Congressional Gridlock 
QUICK TAKESAMID A GRIDLOCKED CONGRESS AND INCREASING AMOUNT OF GUN VIOLENCE, PRESIDENT OBAMA’S RECENT 
EXECUTIVE ORDER CALLED FOR STRICTER BACKGROUND CHECKS FOR PURCHASING AND SELLING GUNS.
A few weeks ago, President Obama laid the foundation for a new 
series of executive orders on gun reform. These orders are designed 
to sidestep a gridlocked Congress in order to prevent gun violence 
in the U.S. According to a White House press release, this will be 
achieved through clarification of background checks for sellers and 
buyers of guns, stronger gun law enforcement and investment in safer 
gun technologies. Despite the connotations of unconstitutionality and 
an abuse of power, these executive orders are relatively minor actions 
in regards to gun reform, and as the Washington Post reported, 
Congressional action is needed to fully address the problem. Obama’s 
orders on gun reform are not a violation of his authority but a 
necessary step forward that will hopefully encourage further reforms.
Many people are uncomfortable with the concept of an “executive 
order, ” when it is in fact well within legal boundaries. According 
to This Nation, a website on American government and politics, 
Article II of the Constitution grants the president “executive power” 
to enforce laws. This means that his orders should be used to direct 
federal agencies in their execution of existing Congressional laws. 
Also, in contrast to conservative accusations of tyranny, Obama’s 
highly publicized use of executive orders are actually far fewer than 
most presidents before him. The American Presidency Project reports 
that Franklin D. Roosevelt ordered the most, numbering around 
3,700. Obama on the other hand is currently at a measly 227, which 
is striking when compared to the more recent Republican president 
Ronald Reagan’s 381.
As President Obama wrote in a letter to the New Y ork Times, 
most Americans support common sense gun reforms, and yet, he 
concedes, meaningful gun legislation will not pass through this 
current Congress. A recent Gallup Poll revealed that a new high of 
62 percent of Americans are dissatisfied with our gun laws. Despite 
this, Congress has failed to enact meaningful reform. With this 
disparity between public interest and Congressional action, the 
standard legislative approach is no longer an option. In his last term 
as president, his executive orders have allowed Obama to get the ball 
rolling on gun reform. Hopefully these baby steps will inspire greater 
action by legislators and voters to push for greater changes.
 — SOPHIE OSBORN
                              Staff WriterExecutive Order on Gun Control is Necessary to Propel a 
Gridlocked Congress into Taking Significant Action on Reform
    President Obama’s recent executive actions on gun control and 
immigration have placed him at the center of the debate regarding 
executive power — and for good reason. His desire to overcome a 
gridlocked Congress gave him few other options besides using wide-
ranging and unchecked executive power. But this does not justify his 
use of extreme measures. Democracy is built around compromise and 
communication, not a single person or administration. When the president 
overrides the diligent process of legislative checks and balances in favor of 
“quicker” and “easier” executive actions, he cuts out a large portion of the 
U.S. population who might otherwise have their say in the government. 
Obama’s executive actions will further disillusion voters who are already 
frustrated with the federal government.
Obama’s actions are also dangerous since he potentially faces a future 
Republican leader undoing all of his actions as soon as 2016 is over. A 
GOP president might decide to use executive actions (with Obama as his 
example) to halt Planned Parenthood or the Affordable Care Act, both of 
which should require legislative processes. Furthermore, a state governor 
might use his same methods to derail some of Obama’s initiatives. 
Executive actions should be limited to specific instances in times of crisis, 
not as a means to set policy that is not carefully considered by the entire 
government.
Obama’s decision to use his executive power to set policy stems from 
his understandable frustration with Congressional gridlock. However, the 
real problem behind this is partisan politics, political polarization and 
extremist candidates. More executive actions will not solve these serious 
problems in American politics; they will only worsen it. In his State of 
the Union address, President Obama fully admitted that “the rancour 
and suspicion between the parties has gotten worse instead of better, ” and 
his executive actions have only contributed to this problem, according 
to the Guardian. President Obama should be focusing on the underlying 
issues surrounding Congressional gridlock so that he can effectively 
enforce substantial gun and immigration reform. He should not bypass 
the very system designed to keep executive power in check just because 
of his frustration. His orders create a slippery slope with little oversight, 
and Obama’s decision to continue the status quo does not bode well for 
American politics.
                                 — NATHAN W ALKER
                              Staff WriterGOT ISSUES?OPINION  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , JANUARY 19, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 5
artpower .ucsd.edu  | 858.534.TIXS (8497)alderQ Cuartet
program
ludwig van beethoven String Quartet No. 12, Op. 127
leoš janáček String Quartet No. 2 “Intimate Letters”
andrew norman Sabina
daníel bjarnason Stillshot
Saturday, January 23, at 8 pm
Department of Music’s Conrad Prebys Concert HallTickets: $12 UCSD Students
WORLDFRONT WINDOW  By David Juarez
Lottery Exploits Underprivileged Communities and Students with False Hope
sums of money, and the result 
quickly becomes disastrous.
Other than leeching off of 
college students, the Powerball also 
relies on individuals from lower 
socioeconomic backgrounds to 
gamble in the system at its low-risk 
cost — $2, to be exact. According 
to the Journal of Community 
Psychology, individuals with the fifth 
lowest socioeconomic status have 
the “highest rate of lottery gambling” 
at an overwhelming 61 percent. The 
Association for Consumer Research 
also found the typical lottery player 
to be young, have little education and 
low family income. It is evident that 
the lottery encourages people with 
lower incomes to purchase lottery 
tickets. Not only does it promote 
a perception that all people (rich 
and poor) have an equal chance at 
winning, but the easy access to and 
cheap cost of lottery tickets, along 
with the image of limitless fortune, 
consistently taunts individuals from 
lower socioeconomic backgrounds.Not even allowing prospective 
winners off the hook, the Powerball 
is also incredibly misleading. 
Promises of donating large portions 
of money to foundations for 
education have allowed the local and 
national governments to veil the fact 
that an expansive percentage of the 
jackpot is taxed as income. Lottery 
advertisements often depict the state 
receiving millions from lotteries, 
typically going toward education. 
However, according to The 
Washington Post, the state actually 
tends to use this money for the preset 
education budget, and the money 
that would have been typically used 
for education (before receiving extra 
lottery donations) is used elsewhere. 
Therefore, the schools do not actually 
receive extra money and still take hits 
from state budget cuts. Furthermore, 
CNBC explained how lottery winners 
do not receive the full payout they 
expect from winning. Taking the 
lump sum from the Powerball would 
mean receiving $930 million of 
the $1.5 billion. Adding on federal 
income tax of 39.6 percent and state tax, which can be nearly 10 percent, 
the net winnings would be hardly 
more than $400 million. Although 
it’s still a hefty payout, it’s a mere 30 
percent of the promised $1.5 billion.
Ultimately, whether it wastes 
its advertisements appealing to 
college students or people from 
lower socioeconomic backgrounds, 
the Powerball remains a pathetic 
attempt for states to acquire more 
money from taxes while leeching 
off the American dream. Not only 
does it promote the development 
of future gambling addictions, but 
it also defines the generic image 
of success as being only based on 
money. This image plays off of 
America’s reliance on capitalism to 
function. While the Powerball may 
seem like a promising way to win the 
perfect life, its use of manipulative 
and deceptive tactics to lure in the 
average person does little to obscure 
the fact that the lottery is simply 
another gambling scam. .
EMIL Y  COLLINS    EACOLLINS@UCSD.EDU▶ POWERBALL from page 4
CHECK OUT OUR 
WEBSITE ONLINE
ucsdguardian.org
SEND YOUR 
LETTERS TO
OPINION@UCSDGUARDIAN.ORGGOT ISSUES?
KOTA YAMAZAKI / 
FLUID HUG-HUGDANCE COMPANY 
OQ
Global traditions flow together in this latest work by Bessie Award–
winning choreographer Kota Yamazaki. OQ is inspired by Japanese ritual 
poetry readings held at the Imperial Palace.
Friday, January 29, at 8 pm
Mandeville Auditorium
Tickets: $28–46; $12 UCSD Students
artpower.ucsd.edu | 858.534.TIXS
HELP OTHERS, FIND HELP
WHEN YOU NEED IT, AND
MAKE KARMA REAL!
Karmonize.org is a student organization
where we can support good causes,
cooperate, and volunteer to
improve the UCSD community.6 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , JANUARY 19, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEA TURES
FEATURESCONTACT THE EDITOR
ALLISON  KUBO
features@ucsdguardian.org
Water, water, everywhere.El Ninoby Oliver Kelton // Staff Writer
and Alvin Chan / / Staff Writer PHOTO BY KENJI BENNETT /UCSD GUARDIAN
Rampant floods. Mini tornadoes by the beach. Howling 
winds. Not what you would normally expect to see in 
San Diego. But this is no ordinary winter. This year, 
California is being hit by unusually wet weather brought on by 
El Nino, a climate phenomenon that occurs every two to seven 
years; San Diego felt some of its first effects during the first week 
of January, when a storm brought torrential rains to the city.  
Flooding hit Price Center West Wednesday at around 3 
p.m., prompting maintenance crews to shut it down for the 
rest of the day. On the other side of campus, Pangea Parking 
Structure was also filled with water, causing a panic among 
students who had parked their cars there. When Peterson Hall 
flooded, many students skipped their classes out of concern for 
their comfort and even safety. In spite of this, Professor Kenny 
Barrese was filmed teaching while standing in ankle-deep 
water; his willingness to teach despite the conditions surprised 
many students, and the video went viral. When asked, Barrese 
explained that students deserve to be taught if they show up.
“If it makes the students receptive to being in a math lecture, 
I am happy for it, ” Barrese told NBC 7. “My students seemed 
to think there should be class, and since I was there, I suppose 
there should be class. ”
The recent storm brought not just rain but intense wind as 
well. The heat and humidity of El Nino changes the atmosphere 
in the affected region, making conditions favorable for storm 
formation. At about 2:50 in the afternoon, a tornado warning 
went out to residents of the North San Diego, and from 3 p.m. 
to 6 p.m., students were bombarded with flash flood warnings 
from emergency alerts; they abandoned their usual activities 
and sought shelter.
El Nino is caused by a global weather pattern which repeats 
every two to seven years. Dr. Andrew Martin, who works in 
weather forecasting at the Center for Western Weather and Water 
Extremes and at the Scripps Institute of Oceanography, described 
the extensive formation of El Nino to the UCSD Guardian.
The rain we’ve seen is caused by the trade winds in the 
tropics weakening and warm water developing well below 
the surface of the ocean. Over time this water moves upward 
and eastward until it’s in the eastern part of the Pacific Ocean. 
This happens from the summer before an El Nino until 
about sometime in the December, when El Nino becomes 
the strongest. This shifts the area where tropical storms are 
supposed to happen further east as well.
The warms waters associated with the El Nino season 
typically begin around early Christmas and reach their high 
temperature in the eastern Pacific Ocean throughout the winter 
months.  Because it takes place during the holiday season, 
Mexican fishermen named the phenomenon El Nino, which 
means “The Little Boy, ” in Spanish, a reference to “The Christ 
Child. ” Another similarly named phenomenon, La Nina, 
which means “The Little Girl” , occurs after an El Nino event 
irregularly. In contrast to El Nino, La Nina is characterized by 
cooler temperatures in the Pacific and drier weather for nine to 
12 months. Like El Nino, La Nina happens every two to seven 
years; the last one occurred from 2011 to 2012.
Although the stormy weather has brought some damage to 
Southern California, the extra rain has brought some relief to 
the current drought, now in its fourth year.
“Depending on who you ask, the amount of rainfall we need 
to alleviate our drought so that we’re coming out of [it] by the 
end of winter is something like 150 percent or greater than 
normal, ” Dr. Martin said. “So far for this El Nino, we are slightly 
above average — so we’re at around 110 percent or so of our 
average snowfall to date in the Sierra Nevada. ”
According to Martin, the current El Niño is expected to last 
See EL NINO , page 7FEA TURES  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , JANUARY 19, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 7
universitycenters.ucsd.edu • 858.822.2068
Your Student Uni nTRITON SPIRIT ART SHOW
Send in your UCSD themed artwork to be 
featured in Your campus Starbucks gallery!  
Accepting two dimensional art (painting, drawing, graphic 
design, photography, prints, collages) 
SUGGESTIONS:
Blue and yellow color schemes, Triton imagery, campus landscapes, portraits of student life etc. Anything related to UCSD is fair game!
HOW? 
 Email pictures of artwork to 
artshow@ucsd.edu  
 Subject line:  Include Starbucks Submission 
and your name 
 Body:  Include titles and mediums of each of 
your pieces, your grade level, and your college. 
There is no limit to how many submissions you submit
DEADLINE: THURSDAY, JAN. 28
QUESTIONS? EMAIL ARTSHOW@UCSD.EDUuntil March, when this phenomenon 
becomes weaker. This will give 
California ample time to refresh its 
snowpack, a vital source of water.
“One of the other interesting 
aspects about El Nino is that while 
the temperature of the Pacific tends 
to be strongest during an El Nino in 
December and January, the snowfall 
in California tends to be highest in 
February and March, ” Martin said.  
“History is on our side if we want to 
get out of this drought. ” 
As big as it was, the recent storm still barely put a dent in the drought, 
but we can look forward to more 
rain over the coming months. As 
good as this may seem, Californians 
need to be wary about the damage El 
Nino may bring. One of the strongest 
El Niños in recent memory, which 
happened in 1997, caused 17 deaths 
and half a billion dollars of damage in 
California as violent storms washed 
away roads and railroad tracks in 
severe flash floods.
Currently, the storm track for 
El Nino has shifted northward. 
According to the San Diego Union Tribune, Northern California is 
expecting rain every day this week. 
Looking at the past weeks, 
many students, who have become 
accustomed to our dry, drought-
stricken weather were surprised by 
the ferocity of the rain this year. 
“In my four years of college, I 
don’t think I have ever experienced 
something this extreme in San 
Diego, ” Revelle College senior Luis 
Perez told the Guardian. “It was 
hectic but fascinating. ”
Max Donovan, an Eleanor 
Roosevelt College junior, was walking to class when the weather took a turn 
for the worse.
“There was thunder and then 
right after that there was a huge gust 
of wind, ” Donovan said. “I thought 
it would only last a second, but it 
just continued for minutes on end. 
Then I heard there was a tornado 
warning so me and some other 
people took shelter in Goody’s for 
half an hour or more. ”
The waters rose to such a height 
that students started kayaking on 
what is usually dry ground near 
Outback Adventures. It’s good to see that though this type of weather is 
“new” to many of us, we can adapt to 
find a fun way to traverse the flood 
waters. However, some wish to go 
back to the typical San Diego weather.
“I went outside after taking a 
shower, and it was like taking another 
shower, ” Earl W arren College senior 
Marvin Salazar, said. “I want the 
drought back. ”▶ EL NINO,  from page 6
Al vin  CHan   
PHOTO BY KENJI BENNETT /UCSD GUARDIAN
According to Scripps Scientists, El Nino Contiunes in February and March, Rain Could Alleviate Drought8 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , JANUARY 19, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG FEA TURES
Q&A  w/
 An Interview with Geisel Library’s Digital Media Lab Manager,
Scott McAvoy
What do you think is the most popular resource the lab offers?
How is the DML transforming the way professors design their curricula?
What is the process of creating a 3-D-printed object at the lab?
How far along is the Library in the development and creation of the virtual 
reality section you mentioned in our interview last October? 
How about the drone topography project? 3-D printing is the DML ’s most popular service by far, and the most 
unique. We’re the only place on campus offering free 3-D printing to 
all UCSD affiliates. Since we opened in October, the printers have been 
consistently booked.
Though we offer all sorts of multimedia services, I think we’re really carving 
out an important role on campus supporting 3-D modeling. There are a ton 
of things you can do with a 3-D model. Y ou can animate it, stick it in a virtual 
environment, create physical versions in any size. Y ou can view it from any angle, 
with any color or lighting. The applications bridge across all disciplines. As virtual 
reality and augmented reality start take off, these capabilities will only become 
more important.
The DML is giving instructors, who normally lack access to production facilities, the ability 
to create academic projects which require students to create physical objects. Making is a 
revolution in education. It engages learners in a way which traditional instruction often fails to. 
We hope to enable instructors from every discipline to leverage that effect. 
The process starts with an digital model. These can be created by the user, scanned from an 
existing physical object, or simply downloaded from a 3-D model database like thingiverse. The 
next step is to reserve time on a 3-D printer, which can be done in person or at libraries.ucsd.edu/
dml. DML staff can then help you open the file in a 3-D printing program, make little tweaks (if 
necessary) and send it to the printer.
I’ d encourage students to stop by and check out the space. Watch and prod the 3-D printers, play with the printed objects, try 
out our drawing tablets and 5k iMacs, see our staff projects. From the start, we’ve put a lot of time into creating project examples to 
try to communicate possibilities. Check out our Y ouTube videos under Digital Media Lab UCSD.
It’s only been three months! I can’t believe it. We’re a little closer with VR, though we don’t have 
the right funding yet. The Triton VR club is drumming up a lot of excitement, and as Occulus Rift 
and HTC Vive hit the market this year, I don’t think it’ll be very long before the right people see the 
value of the technology as a library service.
I crashed my drone, so the mapping project is 
on hold. We’ve done some concept testing and it 
came out nice.
I hope that we’ve made media projects a little less daunting. We act as a starting point for a huge range of 
projects, and I think the most important part is having someone to help with the most basic questions. What 
resources are available? What software should I use? What processes or methods should I follow? Which parts 
am I going to need extra help with?
In what ways do you think the Digital Media Lab has changed the way students approach or 
think about multimedia projects?
What type of guidance does the DML provide for those inexperienced with this type of technology? Do you have any 
advice for students who wish to visit the lab but do not have a specific project or assignment in mind?
•	Working with a graduate student to create 
Mayan artifact replicas and animations using 
dig site photographs. We’ve printed two copies 
of the artifact. The purpose is visualization. 
Details like relative size, feeling in the hand, 
internal structures like holes and notches, all 
contribute to an understanding of an object and 
its use which might not be readily apparent 
from pictures or text descriptions. It’s very 
difficult to communicate certain features by 
other means.
•	Researching and assembling high-end 
photography kits for student checkout (coming 
soon)
•	Working with researchers to evaluate 
fabrication methods for his human heart models
•	Working with a researcher to develop methods 
for generating 3-D-printed sonograms.New DML Projects
photos by Jesus Pacheo // design by Sherman Aline
compiled by Kriti Sarin // Contributing Writer and Soo Yun Park// Senior Staff WriterCALENDAR  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , JANUARY 19, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG  9
ARTPOWER PRESENTS: CALDER QUARTET ARTTALK
THE LOFT  PC EASTSATURDAY 1.23  7pmTahrirCAMPUS
CALENDAR
JAN 19 - JAN 242016 POWERED BY THE CHANCELLOR’S OFFICE AND THE UCSD GUARDIAN
get
more exposure = higher attendamcelisted...
every MONDAY
in The Guar dian
Calendar
SUBMIT your
EVENT for FREE!
calendar @
ucsdgu ardian .orgTHU1.21 WED1.20
10am
MEDITATION- THE ZONE
Join us for a guided meditation where you can: Gain 
greater mental clarity, Achieve a peaceful state of being, Learn techniques to de-stress, Achieve 
harmony amid cognitive dissonance.
12pm
HOT TOPIC SERIES: FILM SCREENING OF 
DOCUMENTED - CROSS-CULTURAL CENTER, PC 
EAST, LVL 2
UCSD Cross-Cultural Center presents our third 
installment of our Hot Topic Series! "In 2011, Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist Jose Antonio Vargas outed 
himself as an undocumented immigrant in an essay 
published in the New York Times Magazine. Documented chronicles his journey to America from the Philippines as a child; his journey through America as an immigration reform activist; and his journey inward as he re-connects with his mother, 
whom he hasn't seen in person in over 20 years." 
Screening followed by facilitated discussion! Light Refreshments will be provided.
1:30pm
THERAPY FLUFFIES - THE ZONE
Come de-stress and play with and pet therapy dogs at The Zone!
2pm
DISCOVER THE LAW: SPORTS LAW - ERC ROOM, 
PC WEST
Here is a session for all you sports fans! Learn about 
how leagues like the NFL and NCAA operate, the ins and outs of contracts and collective bargaining 
agreements, and controversies surrounding player 
discipline. Get your seat in the front row today! This workshop is part of the Student Legal Services "Discover the Law" series. Attend a total of four eligible workshops to receive your Certificate of 
Achievement! Visit the Student Legal Services 
website for more information.
3pm
KEEPIN’ IT 100! HOW TO CAPITALIZE OFF YOUR 
STRENGTHS - WARREN COLLEGE ROOM, PC WEST, LVL 3
Sometimes we spend a lot of energy trying to change 
our weaknesses which often leaves us frustrated and disappointed. Have you ever considered using that 
same energy to MAXIMIZE your strengths instead? 
This workshop will help you identify your strengths and provide you with tools to help you make the most out of your strongest character traits. Attend this workshop to gain confidence and increase 
productivity, while being your authentic self.
4:30pm
DISCOVER THE LAW: IMMIGRATION LAW 101 - 
EARL WARREN COLLEGE RM, PC WEST, LVL 3
Learn about the different ways people can come to 
the United States and stay, whether through a VISA program or by obtaining citizenship. Also discussed will be Deferred Action and other laws affecting non-citizens. This workshop is part of the Student Legal Services "Discover the Law" series. Attend a total of four eligible workshops to receive your Certificate of Achievement! Visit the Student Legal Services website for more information.
7pm
ALPHA PHI INFO NIGHT - EAST BALLROOM, PC 
EAST
Come check out the newest addition to Greek life! 
The Panhellenic Community invites you to come meet the ladies of Alpha Phi and learn about their establishment on the UCSD campus. Join a group of inspiring women dedicated to character development, leadership, scholarship, loyalty, and service, and make history as a founding member of the UCSD chapter of Alpha Phi. Check out their Instagram at @UCSDAlphaPhi and send any questions to UCSanDiegoAlphaPhi@gmail.comSAT1.23
9am
BEYOND LA JOLLA: THE HISTORY AND THE 
HAIR STORY - CROSS-CULTURAL CENTER, PC EAST, LVL 2
This year for our annual Beyond La Jolla program, 
the Cross Cultural Center and the Black Resource Center will be taking an excursion to the California Center for the Arts, Escondido to visit their current art exhibit. The History and the Hair Story: 400 Years Without a Comb is a journey of the African American hair industry and its role in our present culture. The cross cultural center will be providing transportation, admission, as well refreshments both in the morning and afternoon. This event is open to all UCSD students both undergraduate and graduate (PID required). The event is free but a deposit of $5.00 is required to reserve your spot, this deposit will be returned on the day of the event. 11am
BODY COMPOSITION ANALYSIS - THE ZONE
Walk in for your free analysis which includes: body weight, percentage body fat, total body water, and blood pressure. One free assessment per quarter is 
available to registered UCSD students.
For more information visit: http://studenthealth.ucsd.edu/bodycomposition.shtml
1pm
ILEAD WORKSHOP: TRY, TRY, TRY, AND TRY 
AGAIN - EARL WARREN COLLEGE RM, PC WEST, LVL 3
This workshop is aimed to help inspire students to 
overcome the barriers and fears related to failure and rejection related to school and onward in life.
APPLY TO THE CROSS- CULTURAL CENTER 
SOCIAL JUSTICE LEADERSHIP ACADEMY!! - CROSS- CULTURAL CENTER, PC EAST, LVL 2
1st and 2nd year students encouraged to apply! 
Open to all students. Learn and practice critical thinking skills in matters of structural equity, 
diversity, and inclusion for emerging student 
leaders. Develop facilitation skills and tools relating 
to social justice, leadership, and pedagogy across 
diverse groups. Apply: http://goo.gl/forms/txYrrQyisX Accepting Applications through January 10, 2016
6pm
COME LEARN ABOUT SUMMER SESSION! - 
MULTIPLE LOCATIONS
Come talk with representatives from Summer 
Session, Financial Aid and Housing! 1/13/16 - Sixth Apartments Lodge, 1/14/16 - Fireside Lounge, 
1/20/16 - Mariposa Room, 1/25/16 - Warren SAC, 
1/28/16 - Asante Classroom 123C
7pm
THE UC SAN DIEGO HELEN EDISON LECTURE 
SERIES PRESENTS BARRY LOPEZ - PRICE CENTER EAST BALLROOM
Music and Nature National Book award-winning 
author and environmentalist Barry Lopez joins UC San Diego's Steven Schick, a world-renowned 
percussionist, to explore the intersections of music, 
words, and the natural world through dialogue and performance. "The contemporary naturalist," Lopez writes, is one "whose involvement in the political process, in the debates of public life, in the evolution 
of literature and the arts, has become crucial." This 
evening is a prelude to two special performances by Steven Schick: his January 22 concert of composer John Luther Adams' The Mathematics of Resonant 
Bodies, and his January 24 performance with the 
Renga Ensemble of composer Olivier Messiaen's rarely heard tribute to Utah's Zion and Bryce Canyon national parks. For more information on Schick's 
performances, visit music.ucsd.edu/concertsFRI1.22
12pm
INTERNATIONAL FRIDAY CAFE- 
INTERNATIONAL CENTER PATIO
The Friday Cafe provides a venue where 
international and domestic students, scholars, faculty, staff and the local community can come 
together to celebrate cultural diversity and 
international education. Each week the Friday Cafe presents the opportunity to explore world cultures, cuisines, music and more. Join us for this unique international experience! Price: $5 per plate
6:30pm
SUICIDE PREVENTION QPR TRAINING - EARL 
WARREN COLLEGE RM, PC WEST, LVL 3
A QPR (Question, Persuade, Refer) training will 
teach participants how to recognize the signs of suicide, offer hope, and reach out for professional help.
9pm
2016 SPIRIT NIGHT DANCE - THIRD FLOOR 
PATIO, GEISEL LIBRARY
The Spirit Night Dance is hosted by the 
Inter-College Residents' Association (ICRA) at UCSD. It is a time-honored campus tradition where everyone comes together after the Spirit Night double-header basketball games to celebrate the end of Spirit Week! ICRA is committed to providing a friendly, open, and hate-free atmosphere. No matter which college or residential area you're from, bring your energy and come celebrate your spirit as a UCSD Triton! Bust a move on the dance floor, meet new people, and enjoy a fabulous night with friends! Glow sticks will be given away to the first 450 people!TUE1.19
5pm
DISCOVER THE LAW: IDENTITY THEFT AND 
CREDIT REPORTS - DOLORES HUERTA RM, STUDENT CENTER
At this workshop, an attorney will discuss identity 
theft and provide tips on how to prevent it and how to 
maintain your personal and financial security. This 
workshop is part of the Student Legal Services "Discover the Law" series. Attend a total of four eligible workshops to receive your Certificate of Achievement! Visit the Student Legal Services website for more information.
7pm
DISCOVER THE LAW: A DAY IN THE LIFE OF A 
CIVIL LITIGATOR - DOLORES HUERTA RM, STUDENT CENTER
Join us for a panel discussion with civil litigation 
attorneys, who will offer valuable insight to the 
question, What does a law firm associate do all day 
anyway? Topics such as civil litigation practice, working at a law firm, handling cases, billable hours, and conducting trials will be discussed. And a bonus- all panelists are UC San Diego alums! This workshop is part of the Student Legal Services "Discover the 
Law" series. Attend a total of four eligible workshops 
to receive your Certificate of Achievement! Visit the Student Legal Services website for more information.
7:30pm
ASCE PRESENTS: YOU AT THE LOFT - THE LOFT, 
PC EAST
Do you have a talent you want the world to see? 
Come to You at the Loft and share it with us! Don't have a talent but want to watch others perform? Come on by and enjoy some great performances 
along with some free food! If you're interested in 
performing, email ascespecialevents@ucsd.edu by January 16th to guarantee your spot! We welcome all performances including music, comedy, spoken word, rants, and everything else! FREE for all UCSD students with valid ID! 
SPORTS  THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , JANUARY 19, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 11
Heidi VanDerveer told UCSD 
Athletics Department. “ A mark of a 
championship team is finding ways 
to win and dealing with adversity. 
That was what happened tonight. ” 
UCSD is now 14–2 overall and 
holds a 9–1 record in conference play.
Shokoor led the Tritons 
Saturday night with 24 points and 
19 rebounds, resulting in her tenth 
double-double of the season. Katuna 
also put up 19 points and grabbed 
eight rebounds for the Tritons. The 
Tritons dominated the free-throw 
line, outscoring Cal State Monterey 
Bay 18–0; junior guard Victoria 
Dorn and senior forward Jazmine 
Johnson combined 23 points for Cal 
State Monterey. 
The first two quarters were all 
Otters as they led 35–26 at halftime. 
The Otters came out strong again 
during the third quarter, putting 
up seven quick points, resulting 
in a score of 42–27. UCSD, led by 
Shokoor, fought back throughout 
the third, cut the Otters’ lead to only four points, with the score being 
50–46 going into the last 10 minutes 
of the game. It took one more basket 
by the Otters to fire up the UCSD 
offense. Katuna and Shokoor took 
charge of the Triton’s offense with 
a couple of steals, blocks and clutch 
baskets to give the Tritons a one-
point lead with 5:31 left in the game. 
Katuna put up four more points, 
and a big three-pointer from junior 
guard Beth Mounier allowed the 
Tritons to extend their lead to a 
comfortable 62–54 with 1:54 left in 
the game. Katuna and Shokoor hit 
a couple more free throws to make 
the final score 67–57 for the Tritons’ 
sixth-straight win.
The Tritons return home for 
Spirit Night at RIMAC Arena this 
Friday, Jan. 22, for their biggest 
game of the season so far against 
undefeated Cal State Dominguez 
Hills. Tip-off is scheduled for 5:30 
p.m. Men’s Basketball Gearing up Versus CSUDH on Spirit Night Next Game Versus Undefeated CSUDH
▶ W. BASKETBALL,  from page 12
Samantha Glantz   
Deadline to apply: Feb 28
TO LEARN MORE ATTEND THE OPEN forum:
Jan 28 • 12pm-1pm • Forum, PC EAST, 4th Floor 
Contact s6mathew@ucsd.edu for additional inquiriesBecome the next
UC STUDENT
REGENTJackson distributed three assists 
and junior guard Aleks Lipovic 
produced a strong performance on 
the boards, gathering a game-high 
eight rebounds.
Collectively, the Tritons shot 53 
percent (23 –43) from the field, the 
11th time in 15 games that UCSD 
has shot above the 50-percent mark 
as a team. In contrast, Cal State 
East Bay stuck to a disappointing 
29 percent (16 –55) from the field 
in the evening, and UCSD defended 
the three-point shot extremely well. 
As a result, the Pioneers made just a 
single shot from beyond the arc out 
of their 16 attempts; not surprisingly, 
however, as the Tritons hold the title 
for the best three-point defense in 
the nation.
UCSD conceded only 43 points 
in the contest, making it its second-
fewest point total allowed this season. 
The Tritons also held the 
advantage in the rebounding 
department, 39 –26 and produced 
their season-high six blocks in the 
game, with Klie and freshman center 
Chris Hansen swatting two a piece. 
UCSD vs. Cal State Monterey 
Bay
The Tritons attempted to keep 
the momentum going behind 
their fourth straight win on Friday 
evening, but it was not meant to 
be as No. 14 UCSD fell against its 
northern rivals, Cal State Monterey Bay on Saturday night, 71 –60.
As a result of its lowest-point 
total of the season, UCSD now 
stands with a 13 –3 overall record 
and 8 –2 in conference play. More 
importantly, the Tritons now share 
the top spot in the CCAA standings 
alongside Chico State.  
UCSD had a season-low shooting 
performance on that night, ending 
with 33 percent (21 –64) from overall 
shooting and 21 percent (6 –28) from 
behind the arc — the Tritons failed to 
reach their season average of 73.5 PPG.  
“We got off to a slow start 
tonight and weren’t able to recover, ” 
Olen told the UCSD Athletics 
Department.
On a brighter note, the Tritons 
had four players in double figures 
in the points category including 
Hansen (12), Dyer (11), Klie (11) 
and Lipovic (10). Dyer also had a 
team-high of nine rebounds.
The Otters also had a solid-
shooting performance, ending with 
44 percent (2 7–61) overall and from 
beyond the three-point line (8-18), 
dominating on the boards as well, 
with a 48 –37 advantage.
The standout player of the night, 
Cal State Monterey Bay’s senior 
forward Ryan Nitz, had a tremendous 
31-point game, including an 
impressive seven three-pointers. 
Alongside him was freshman 
forward Julian Ducree who gathered 
a game-high 11 rebounds.  
The Tritons came out flat footed at the start and paid the price; they 
trailed 11 –0, which was the start 
to an impressive night for Nitz, 
draining two shots from beyond 
the arc during that spurt. With 
almost 10 minutes gone in the the 
first period, UCSD found itself with 
a 20 -point gap to climb, 22  –2. It 
ended the first half in a much better 
way and cut down the lead to 11, 
going into halftime 37 –26.
With only a few minutes 
remaining, and trailing as much as 
17 points, the Tritons attempted to 
get themselves in a position to fight 
for the win. UCSD was only behind 
by six points with 43 seconds left  
in the game, but it was too late, as 
the Otters put the comeback out of 
question by hitting five free throws 
to finish the game.
“We’re looking forward to 
coming home, and I expect us 
to respond with a much better 
performance, ” Olen told the UCSD 
Athletic Department. 
UCSD will host a pair of 
conference games this week at 
RIMAC Arena. The first of those 
encounters coming against Cal State 
Dominguez Hills for Spirit Night on 
Jan. 22; the Tritons will take on Cal 
State L.A. on Jan. 23, as the second 
game of the back-to-back series. 
Both are set for 7:30 p.m. tip-offs.
Daniel  HERNANDEZ    ▶ M. BASKETBALL,  from page 12
See more at 
UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE/ UCSD GUARDIANCONTACT THE EDITOR
MARCUS  THUILLIER
sports@ucsdguardian.org     follow us @UCSD_sports 
12 THE UCSD GUARDIAN | TUESDAY , JANUARY 19, 2016 | WWW.UCSDGUARDIAN.ORG 
week  i n
s u m m a ry
WOMEN'S
BASKETBALL
MEN'S
BASKETBALL
MEN'S  TENNISSWIM  &  DIVEUCSD
UCSD
UCSDUCSD Men’sUCSD
UCSD
UCSDUCSD Women’sCal State East Bay
Cal State East Bay
University of San DiegoCalifornia BaptistCal State Monterey Bay
Cal State Monterey Bay
UCICalifornia Baptist56 - 54
64 - 43
0 - 4137 - 16167 - 57
60 - 71
2 - 5127 - 173
MEN'S
VOLLEYBALL
30 25 25
25 25 2528 22 20
18 17 14UCSB
UCLAUCSD
UCSD
No. 14 UCSD headed into the 
weekend with its best-ever ranking 
in Division II, but the Tritons  were 
stopped by Cal State Monterey Bay 
on Saturday night, following their 
win at Cal State East Bay the previous 
night, UCSD now holds a 13-3 overall 
record and 8-2 in conference play, 
tied atop the California Collegiate 
Athletic Association.  
UCSD vs. Cal State East Bay
On Friday evening, senior forward Drew Dyer spearheaded the attack for 
No. 14 UCSD men’s basketball team 
with a game-high 18-point outing, 
leading to a 64-43 victory against Cal 
State East Bay. 
In earning their fourth consecutive 
victory, the Tritons had the outright 
lead of the CCAA conference for the 
night, holding a strong 13-2 overall 
record and 8-1 in the conference up to 
that point.  
“I thought we did a nice job on the 
defensive end, ” UCSD Head Coach 
Eric Olen told the UCSD Athletic 
Department. “It felt like we made [Cal State East Bay] work for everything 
and forced mostly contested shots. We 
were efficient on the offensive end but 
had too many empty possessions due 
to turnovers. ”
Nearly perfect from the floor, Dyer 
drained six of his seven shots, including 
being two for two from beyond the arc. 
Additionally, junior guard Adam Klie 
and sophomore guard Grant Jackson 
had themselves an efficient game as 
well, both shooting four for six from 
the field earning them 12  and 11 
points, respectively. Not to mention, M. BASKETBALL
UCSD Splits Two Games on the Road
Tritons beat CSUEB, falls to CSUMB, stay tied for first with Cal Poly Pomona.
B Y  Daniel  Hernandez
See M. BASKETBALL , page 11
No. 23 UCSD is now riding a six-game winning streak after defeating 
CSU East Bay and CSU Monterey Bay in back-to-back nights, to up 
their record to 14–2 overall and 9–1 in the California Collegiate Athletic 
Association.
UCSD vs. Cal State East Bay
The UCSD Tritons women’s basketball team defeated the Cal State 
East Bay Pioneers 56–54 on the road this past Friday night. The victory 
over the Pioneers extended the Tritons’ winning streak to five straight 
games and improved their overall record to 13–2; the nationally-ranked 
Tritons have only lost one conference game to the currently undefeated 
Cal State Dominguez Hills earlier in the season, making their CCAA 
record 8–1. After taking their first loss in conference play Friday night 
against the Tritons, the Pioneers’ current overall record is 13–3 with 
a 7–1 record in CCAA matchups; they dropped to third place in the 
CCAA while the Tritons moved into second behind the 9–0 Cal State 
Dominguez Hills Toros.
The game between the Tritons and the Pioneers was a battle to the 
very last minute between two of the top teams in the CCAA. Senior 
forward Farrah Shokoor had a huge game for the Tritons, putting up 
17 points and grabbing 11 rebounds for her ninth double-double of the 
season. Shokoor also had two blocks and two steals in the game. Senior 
guard Jamie Katuna came up clutch in the last five minutes of the game 
by making three free throws and giving the Tritons a three-point lead 
when the score tied up at 48–48. Katuna then scored a layup and made 
two more baskets from the charity line, securing the win for the Tritons.
The Tritons started the match off strong. UCSD took an early 5–4 
lead after Shokoor was fouled while going up for a layup, resulting in 
an easy three-point play for the Tritons. Freshman guard Joleen Y ang 
hit a three-pointer to make the score 10–4 in the Tritons’ favor. Junior 
guard Beth Mounier then made a two-point jumper and Shokoor added 
a point from the free-throw line upping the score to 13–12 in UCSD’s 
favor, ending the first quarter. Senior guard Shannon Bland of Cal State 
East Bay had a solid first 10 minutes of the game, putting up eight of the 
Pioneers’ 12 points. 
The second quarter started off slow for both teams. The score was 
tied up at 15–all until sophomore guard Paige Song hit a fade-away 
jumper for two to get the ball rolling for the Tritons. They put up a total 
of six unanswered points, making the score 21–15. The Pioneers battled 
back, making the score 22–19 after hitting four free throws between 
their senior forward Bianca Littleton and senior guard Madison Craig; 
UCSD continued to score nine more points late in the second quarter, 
the score was 30–21 at halftime.
The Pioneers came out strong during the third quarter, putting up 
a quick six points to make the score 30–27 as the Tritons struggled to 
make ten points in the quarter. Cal State East Bay continued to rally 
back, tying the score up at 40–40 to begin the fourth quarter. After 
a timely steal, and a huge three pointer by Shokoor, the Tritons were 
able to put up a total of seven points to take the lead. The Pioneers 
quickly tied the game back up at 47–47 with 6:03 left on the clock due 
to a couple of free throws sunk by Bland and Craig. Junior guard Haley 
Anderson and Katuna came up clutch, making four easy points for the 
Tritons from the charity line, giving UCSD a 51–48 lead. The last three 
minutes of the game were all free throws, making the score 55–54 in 
the Tritons’ favor. Sophomore guard Taylor Tanita grabbed an offensive 
rebound with one second on the game clock to finish the Pioneers off; 
she hit both her free throws, resulting in the final score of 56–54 UCSD. 
UCSD vs. Cal State Monterey Bay
The No. 23 Tritons came back after being down 15 points to defeat 
the Cal State Monterey Bay Otters, 67–57, in a California Collegiate 
Athletic Association match-up on Saturday night. 
“I’m very proud of my team’s effort tonight, ” UCSD Head Coach Written by Samantha Glantz  // Staff Writer
Photo by Megan Lee 
See W. BASKETBALL , page 11
PHOTO BY MEGAN LEE/ UCSD GUARDIANW. Tennis
M. Volleyball
W. Basketball
M.Volleyball
M. Basketball  1/20
  1/20
  1/22
  1/22
  1/22UPCOMING
UCSD
GAMES
Win Both Games, Improve to 14-2
UCSD women keep winning, extend streak to six.AT Cal State Fullerton
AT Pepperdine
VS Cal State Dominguez Hills
AT Stanford
VS Cal State Dominguez Hills